^o^vvs 



i#^ 



^ 



^ ^ Ex 

Crosbii Gaigii %?* 



c % 



%/k 



BiBLIOTHECA 
COQVINARIA 

^ F 7 




THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 




I/I 

ft) 

(/) 
(/) 

> 



3 
cd 

1/1 
_W 

O 
CO 

ft) 

X 

a 
«j 
ft) 

a 

CO 



ft) 

CL. 



THE 

IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



BY 

M. A. FAIRCLOUGH 

LADY PRINCIPAL OF THE GLOUCESTEK ROAD SCJIOOL OF COOKERV, LONDON, S.VV. 



WITH 48 COLOURED PLATES BY A. H. SANDS 
AND ABOUT 250 ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE TEXT 




LONDON 
GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS, LIMITED 

NEW YORK : E. P. DUTTON AND CO. 



-1x717 



PREFACE 



Although there are already many excellent works on cookery, the Editor of the 
present work has no fear in placing it before the public ; for cooker}^ is a science 
that is constantly advancing, and this volume contains all the newest methods and 
recipes that are in vogue both in England and on the Continent. The Editor feels 
confident, therefore, that this book will be acceptable to many, as it is throughout 
up to date, and includes recipes suitable for the beginner and for the advanced 
student, as well as information useful for the mistress of the household. 

The young cook who is anxious to improve her cuHnary knowledge will find the 
recipes clear and easy to understand, and all of them quite rehable. Having been 
a teacher of cookery for many years, the Editor can understand in what cases a 
beginner is liable to make mistakes, and has therefore dealt with all these points 
in clear language. All the recipes in this work have been tested in the Editor's 
School of Cookery. 

The advanced student of cookery, who knows the standard dishes, but perhaps 
requires to acquaint herself with up-to-date entrees, sweets, savouries, etc.. will 
find a very large number of entirely new and original recipes, which will add con- 
siderably to her culinary repertoire. 

The mistress of the household will find this volume invaluable, as it states the 
time taken in the preparation and cooking of each dish, the average cost incurred, 
and when the dishes are seasonable. This will be found a great convenience, and 
will lessen the difficulty of ordering the daily meals. 

With a view to facilitate the writing of menus, the French names are given, and 
in most cases the Enghsh equivalents are added ; but in instances where transla- 
tions do not exist, the original titles in French, which is essentiallj- the language of 
the cuisine, are left untranslated. This applies particularly to the newest dishes. On 
the other hand, there are many typical English names of which no French transla- 
tions are current. 

The Index is quite comprehensive, both the French and the English titles being 
registered, thus enabling readers to find any dish without cross-references. 

Numerous coloured plates will be found throughout the book, and as these were 
irawn from actual dishes made in the Editor's School, they are absolutely correct 
in every detail. Copious text illustrations in black and white are included. In 
these days, when cookery is an art as well as a science, these illustrations should 
be of great use in assisting the cook to dress her dishes neatly and weU. 



vi PREFACE 

The Editor here wishes to emphasize this point — that the eye aids the appetite, 
and even the most perfectly cooked dish becomes unappetizing unless it is served 
daintily. Every dish should be made as neat and pretty as it is possible to maka 
it. An untidy, badly garnished entree, for example, would spoil the whole dinner. 
On the other hand, the 3"oung cook should be careful not to over-decorate, as this 
is equally wrong, and will give a heavy and clumsy appearance to the dish. 

As vegetarianism has increased so much of late years, many vegetable and 
farinaceous dishes have been included to meet the needs of this section of the 
pubUc. There is also a chapter on plain and dressed vegetables. This branch of 
cookery has not been considered important enough to gain the attention of the 
Enghsh cook, but of late years more care has been given to the subject than 
formerly, and we are beginning to reahze the importance of well-cooked vegetables 
as adjuncts to the daily dinner. In short, this book will, it is hoped, be found to 
be a complete work of reference on every branch of cookery, from the simplest to 
the most elaborate. 

In conclusion, the Editor wishes to express her sincere thanks to numerous 
friends who have supplied her with many recipes never before published in any 
book. She would also draw attention to the large number of original recipes 
contained in this work ; and, lastly, to the section of famous Viennese sweets 
supplied to her by Mrs. Fluss, of Vienna. These should prove interesting to those 
who are glad of new recipes, as they are completely unknown in this country, and 
are well worthy of notice. Further, the Editor and the Pubhshers have much 
pleasure in acknowledging their great indebtedness to the works of Mr. C. Herman 
Senn, who has allowed many of the recipes appearing in his various standard 
cookery books to be reproduced by the Editor, with or without variations — for which 
variations, however, Mr. Senn is not responsible. 



Gloucester Koad, M. A. FAIBCLOUGH 

South Kensington. 



CONTENTS 



30 
42 



56 



CnAPTER tAOK 

I. Hot Sauces — Hot Fish Sauces 
— Cold Sauces — Sweet 
Sauces - - - 1 

II. Flavouring Butteks — Force- 
meats — Garnishes 

III. Hors-d'CEuvres - 

IV. Stocks — Consommes — House- 

hold Soups — Poultry, Meat, 
and Game Soups — Fish Soups 
V. Fish and Fish Entrees — 
Simple Ways of Cooking and 
Serving Fish — Dainty Ways 
of doing up Cold Fish - 94 

VI. Fish Entrees (Cold) - - 158 

VII. Meat Entrees (Hot) - -175 

VIII. Small Entrees (Hot) - - 230 

IX. Household Cookery (Meat. 

Poultry, etc.) - - 253 

X. Indian Dishes (Curries, exc.) - 274 

XI. Casserole Cookery - - 280 

XII. Meat Entrees (Cold) - - 285 

XIII. Entrees of Poultry, etc. (Hot) 298 

XrV. Entrees of Game, etc. (Hot) - 319 

XV. Cold Entrees of Poultry and 

Game - - - - 352 

XVI. Removes of Meat, Poultry, 

AND Game - - - 374 

XVn. Cold Meat Cookery • - 396 

XVIII. Vegetables • - 425 

XIX. Vegetable Entrees (Cold) - 490 

XX. Farinaceous and Vegetaeian 

Dishes - . - - 602 

XXI. Breakfast, Lunch, and Supper 

Dishes - - - . 514 

XXII. Eoo Dishes — Cold Ego Djbhes 

— Omelets * • 638 



CHAPTER 

XXIII. 



TAmt 



XXIV. 
XXV. 

XXVI. 



XXVII. 
XXVIII. 



XXIX. 



XXX. 

XXXI. 
XXXIL 

XXXIII. 

XXXIV. 



Salads — Salad Dressings — 
Vegetable Salads — Meat; 
Poultry, and Game Salads 
— Fish Salads— Squr Fruit 
Salads - - - - 

Sandwiches 

Invalid Dishes — Invalid 
Drinks 

Sweet Entremets — Elemen- 
tary Preparations — Batters 
— Icings — Pastries — Hot 
Puddings — Fruit Puddings 
— Souffles — Rice and otheb 
Pastes — Beignets — Cro- 
quettes AND Rissoles — 
Sweet Omelets — Timbales 
AND Charlottes 

Tarts, Fruit Puddings, and 
Tartlets 

Sweet Entremets (Cold) — 
Bavarois and Creams — Fruit 
Entremets — Cold Souffles — 
Simple Cold Sweets 

Ices — Hints on Ice-making — 
Moulding of Ices — Water 
Ices — Icbd Souffles — Sor- 
bets, Granites, etc. - 

Bread, Cakes, Biscuits, etc. — 
Viennese Sweets 

Savouries 

Preserves, Jellies, Marmalade, 

BTO. - - - - 

Pickles, Chutneys, Sauces, 

ETC. — Potted Meat and Fish 

Cups,IcedDrink8,Liqueue8,etc. 

Index « . • . 



572 
697 

608 



633 

694 



706 



768 

783 

860 

890 

900 
907 
916 



▼n 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



INDEX OF COLOURED PLATES 



FACINQ 
rAOB 

Betters ves Farcies au Celeri - • 500 

Bordure de Creme de Bceuf aux Prunes • 234 

Caisses de Concombre aux Tomates - 54 

Canapes d'ferevisses a la Cardinal - - 46 
Chaudfroid de Cailles - - -370 

Chaudfroid de Ris de Veau San Remo • 300 

Chaudfroid de Volaille - - - 332 

Chaudfroid de Volaille en Belle Vue - 352 

Chocolate Cake (Gateau de Chocolat) - 804 

Corbeille aux Fruits - - - - 682 

Cotelettes de Mouton Chaudfroid a I'lndienne 284 

Crofltes de Prunes a la Frangaise - - 748 

Faisan en Mandarines ... 364 

Fancy Iced Genoese ... 845 

Filets de Boeuf en Chaudfroid - - 292 

Filets de Soles a rfipicure - • - 110 

Flan de Rognons a la Turque - - 518 

Gateau de Violettes .... 914 

Ginger Cake - - • • - 798 

Jambon aux Champignons ... 534 

Medallions d'CEufs en Chaudfroid (Colinette) 562 

Medaillons de Saumon a la Montpellier - 158 

Nid de Pommes de Terre aux Petits Pois - 426 

Noisettes de Mouton k la Montgomery - 188 



FAOIKO 
PAOB 

(Eufs k la Mortemart ... 558 

Olives aux (Eufs - - - .904 

Petites Bateaux aux ^revisses - - 878 

Petits Bateaux de Soles aux ficrevisses frontispiece 



Petits Paniers k la Jardiniere 

Poires a la Marquise 

Pommes k la Royale 

Pommes de Terre Farcies sur Tomates 

Prunes k la Montp'^llier 

Pyramide d'Abricots k la Maintenon 

Ris de Veau k la Jardiniere - 

Ris de Veau a la St. Michel - 

Rognons aux Tomates, Bordure de - 

Salade de Celeri et Noix 

Salade de Tomates a la Fran^aise - 

Savoury Eggs 

Shrewsbury Meringues k la Creme • 

Soles Farcis en Aspic 

Tangerine Souffle, Orange - 

Timbale de Bavaroises aux Meringues 

Timbale de Filets de Soles a la Cardinal 

Tomates a rAmericaine 

Tomates a la Madrid 

Toumedos a la Drexel 



492 
730 
640 
472 
42 
662 
210 
312 
554 
594 
606 
870 
720 
162 
758 
714 
120 
576 
884 
228 



INDEX OF BLACK AND WHITE ILLUSTRATIONS 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Abricots a la Cond6 - 


- 664 


Apple Jellies • • • 


- 620 


Abricots a la Sultane 


- 664 


Arrowroot Pudding - 


. 624 


Abricots au Riz 


- 663 


Aspic de Volaille h I'ltalienne 


. 362 


Abricots, Marie Louise 


- 691 


Baba au Rhum 


- 693 


Aiguilles au Parmesan 


. 886 


Baked Lemon Pudding 


. 638 


Apple Fritters 


. 681 


Balmoral Cake 


. 821 



IX 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 







PAOB 


Bananes a la Cond6 - 




. 666 


Bananes Gamies k la Marie 




. 742 


Bananes sur Croiites 




. 667 


Barquettes de Crevettes 




. 50 


Beef JeUy - 




• 611 


Beignets de Celeri 




443 


Beignets Souffles 




684 


Bird's Nest Pudding 




. 764 


Birthday Cake 




. 801 


Bonne-Bouches aux Fruits ■ 




. 654 


Bonnes-Bouches de Ris d'Agneau - 


. 246 


Bordure de Florador aux Prunes 


. 750 


Bordure de Poires a la Crfime 


. 734 


Bordure Savarin . . . . 


. 692 


Boudins de Veau a la LuculluB 


. 248 


Buttered Crab . . . . 


. 143 


Cabinet Pudding - • - . 


. 655 


Cailles a la Jardiniere 


. 337 


Cailles au Risotto - • . . 


. 335 


Calf's Foot JeUy . . . . 


. 621 


Canapes d'&revisses 


. 880 


Cannelon de Pommes de Terre 


. 513 


Cannelon of Beef . . . . 


. 410 


Caramel Pudding . - . . 


. 656 


Carottes a la Vichy - - . . 


439 


Cassolettes of Carrot 


438 


Cassolettes of Potato 


. 403 


Castle Puddings . - - . 


. 657 


Celestines de Perdreau 


. 367 


Champignons . . . . 


833 


Charlotte au C^ocolat i la Hollandaise 


754 


Charlotte de Bananes 


757 


Charlotte Russe . . . . 


. 753 


Chartreuse de Lievre 


347 


Chaudfroid de Cailles k TAurore 


368 


Chaudfroid de Cailles en Caisses 


. 369 


Chaudfroid de Ris de Veau en Caisses 


. 293 


Cheese Aigrettes . . . . 


. 888 


Cheese Straws . . . . 


. 887 


Christmas Cake . . . . 


. 802 


Cocoanut Biscuits - . - . 


. 830 


Coffee Butter Pyramids 


- 831 


Compote de Pigeons - 


. 311 


Coquilles de Poisson a la Chiffonade 


. 163 


Corbeilles - - . - . 


. 823 


Corbeilles aux Petits Pois • 


. 466 


Comets of Game 


• 


., 422 



Cornflour Blanc -Mange • • 

C6t«lettcs de Faisan a la Richelieu - 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Princiere 

Cotelettes de Mouton en Aspic 

Cotelettes d'CEufs aux Sardines 

Cotelettes de Pigeons a la Duchesse 

Coupes de Concombres 

Creme a la Genoise - 

Creme a la Marguerite 

Creme d' Ananas 

Cr^me de Celeri 

Cremes a la Princesse 

Croissants - - • 

Croquettes de Riz 

Croustades de Mauviettes k I'ltalienne 

Croustades of Cod - 

Croutes de Poisson - • 

Curried Eggs - • 

Curried Shrimps in Cases 

Darioles de Petits Pois 

Darioles de Volaille en Aspic 

Dariolettes de Ris de Veau - 

Dame de Saumon a la Richelieu 

Diablotins au Parmesan 

Durham Cutlets 

ficlairs d'Anchois 

Economical Pie 

!l6pigrammes de Faisan 

Epinards a la Creme 

Epinards sur Croutes 

Escalopes de Veau a la Milanaise 

Filets de Boeuf a la Rossini - 

Filets de Boeuf a la Viennoise 

Filets de Soles a la Lyonnaise 

Filets de Soles a la Mayonnaise 

Filets de Soles a la Rouennaise 

Filets de Soles en Fers a Cheval 

Filets de Veau Froides 

Fillets of Sole with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 

Fish Pie - 

Fish Pudding 

Fish Salad - 

Fish with Potatoes - 

Flan de Cabillaud 

Fondants au Promage 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



XI 





PAOK 


Fonds d'Artichauts k la Monaco 


429 


Fonds d'Artichauts a la Reine 


491 


Friandines aux fipinarda 


456 


Fried Gnocchi . . - . 


503 


Fried Plaice - . . - ■ 


131 


Fried Whitebait . . . . 


134 


Fried Whiting . - - . 


. 615 


Galantine de Bceuf • . - • 


. 295 


Gateau Surprise - . • • 


726 


Gateau Vanille . . . . 


808 


Genoese Baskets . . - . 


722 


" Ghiac " (a Norwegian Dish) 


. 406 


Girdle Cakes . . . . 


. 791 


Haricot Mutton . » - . 


. 257 


Hot Floridor Shape - . « • 


. 652 


Invalid Tray . . - . 


. 609 


Irish-Moss Blanc-Mange 


. 625 


Japanese Tart . . - 


. 697 


Junket - . . . . 


. 629 


Lawn -Tennis Cake . . - • 


. 805 


Lobster Cutlets . . - . 


. 140 


Macaroni Croquettes 


• 508 


Macedoine de Fruits en Gelee 


. 752 


Manchester Pudding 


. 645 


Marie Puddings . . - . 


. 658 


Mauviettes en Caisses 


. 371 


Mayonnaise de VolaiUe 


. 360 


Meat Croquettes . . - . 


. 400 


Meat Patties . . . . 


. 273 


Medallions de Poularde h la Princesse 


- 305 


Medallions de Gibier 


. 372 


Melon en Surprise . - - 


. 724 


Merlan a I'Horly . . - 


. 129 


Minced Veal and Poached Eggs 


. 415 


Minced Veal in Jelly - 


- 416 


Mousse de Crabe . . - 


- 173 


Mousse de Jambon . . - 


. 296 


Mousse de Veau 


. 291 


Mousses de Faisan a la Supreme 


. 330 


Mousses de Petits Pois 


. 496 


Noisettes de Mouton aux Tomates - 


- 187 


(Eufs a la Princesse - 


. 558 


(Eufs Farcis sur Crovitea 


- 877 


Olives a la Madras - 


. 49 


Olives de Veau 


. 197 


Omelette aux Fines Herbes • 


. 563 


Orange Jelly . • - 


- 707 



Pailles aux Anchois - - - 

Parcel Post Cake - . - 

Pates de Faisan - . - 

Paupiettes de Soles aux Tomates - 

Petites Cremes de Volaille a la Juhette 

Petites Croutes de Homard - 

Petites Condoles de Bananes 

Petites Langues a I'Espagnole 

Petites Marquises au Merluche 

Petites Mousses de Homard - 

Petites Omelettes a I'ficarlate 

Petites Timbales de Carottes 

Petites Timbales de Ris de Veau aux 

fipinards - 
Petits Bateaux d'Abricots 
Petits Choux a la Reine 
Petits Choux aux (Euh 
Petits Choux d'Abricots 
Petits Gateaux 
Petits Gateaux a la Princesse 
Poached Eggs in ]MiIk 
Poires a la Comtesse 
Poitrines de Canard Sauvage a 1' Orange 
Pommes a I'Americaine 
Pommes de Terre Farcies 
Pommes de Terre Farcies a I'lmperiale 
Pommes en Surprise 
Pork Pie 

Pouding a la Royal - 
Pouding Diplomate aux Pommes 
Prunes Farcis a la Strasbourgeoise 
Queen Cakes 
Quenelles de Rognons aux Pommes de 

Terre 
Quenelles de Veau - 
Quenelles de Veau Frites 
Queue de Boeuf Frite 
Rabbit Cream 
Raspberry Genoese - 
Ris de Veau k la Demidoft 
Risotto aux (Eufs 
Rissoles de Ris d'Agneau 
Rissoles of Cold Meat 
Riz a rimperatrice - 
Riz a la Maltaise 
Roast Rabbit Stuffed 
Rognons a la Connaught 



PAOB 

882 
806 
325 
118 
355 
872 
743 
240 
883 
17? 
564 
440 

213 

738 
51 
542 
737 
816 
840 
619 
732 
339 
660 
476 
473 
838 
256 
671 
730 
43 
829 

517 
201 
203 
534 
264 
817 
205 
549 
247 
405 
713 
725 
264 
189 



Xll 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Rose Cake - 

Roulettes de Ris d'Agneau 

Salade a la Caroline - 

Salade a la Jardiniere 

Salade a la Russe 

Salade de Chouxfleurs 

Salade de Homard auz Pommes de 

Salade de Saumon - 

Salmi de Canard Sauvage 

Savoury Custards 

Scallops of Mutton 

Scones 

Scotch Eggs - 

Shrewsbury Finger Biscuits 

Snowdon Pudding 

Sole au Gratin 

Souffle a la Parme 

Souffle^a laJMilanaise 

Souffle au Chocolat 

Souffle de Merlan 

Souffle Omelet 

Steak and Kidney Pie 

Steamed Whiting 

Sultana Cake 



Terre 



PAGE 

813 
245 
594 
579 
582 
574 
591 
592 
338 
614 
423 
788 
552 
850 
644 
116 
760 
759 
762 
128 
623 
254 
612 
795 



Swiss Roll .... 

Talmouses de Merluche Fumee 

Tartelettes d'Abricots 

Tartelettes de Fromage 

Tartines a la Marguerite 

Timbale aux Fruits a la Nationale - 

Timbale de Lard aux Rognons 

Timbale de Legumes a la Normande 

Timbale de Pommes de Terre Sautees 

Timbale de Ris de Veau 

Timbales de Pommes de Terre a la Modeme 

Tomates a I'Andalouse 

Tomates en Surprise 

Tomates Farcies k la Portugaise 

Tomato Canapes .... 

Topinambours au Risotto 

Toumedos h I'Empereur 

Trifles .... 

Turban de Filets de Sole aux Champignons 

Veal BaUs .... 

Veal Curry . - - - 

Vienna Bread ... 

Vol-au-Vent de Volaille aux Truffes 

Yule Log . . . - 



PAOB 

818 
878 
739 
889 
875 
690 
533 
500 
469 
292 
471 
487 
497 
488 
48 
431 
229 
881 
125 
402 
274 
785 
307 
819 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



PT. I. 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

CHAPTER I 

SAUCES 

The making of saucos being such an important branch of cookery, upon which so 
many other dishes depend, I here give a few rules for their satisfactory preparation : 

Care must be taken in measuring the quantities exactly, as the smallest difference 
in the weight would spoil the consistency of the sauce. 

All sauces containing flour must be well boiled, in order that the starch 
grains which the flour contains may be well cooked. 

Proper seasoning is essential to the making of a good sauce : if not sufficiently 
seasoned, it is insipid ; if too highly, it destroys the distinctive flavour of the sauce. 

All sauces should be smooth, and of just the right consistency, neither too thick 
nor too thin. 

HOT SAUCES 

1. ALLEMANDE SAUCE (GERMAN SAUCE). 

lemon-juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

^ gill chickeu or veal stock. 

Boil the veloute sauce with the stock and one tablespoonful of cream until well 
reduced. Beat the yolk in basin, add the rest of the cream, and stir into the sauce. 
Cook over a slow fire \vitliout boiling. Season with salt and cayenne and a squeeze 
of lemon-juice. Strain and use. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



1 pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 
1 oz. butter. 



cayenne. 

2 yolks of egga. 



2. SAUCE AMIRAL (ADMIRAL SAUCE). 



1 pint Allemande sauce (No. 1). 
1 teaspoonful chopped caper*". 



salt. 

juice h lemon. 



I teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
a few drops anchovy essence, 
grated rind ^ lemon. 

Heat up the Allemande sauce ; stir in the capers, parsley, lemon-rind, and 
anchovy essence. Warm thoroughly, and, lastly, add the juice of half a lemon. 
Average cost, 9d. Time required, 10 to 15 minutes. 



J pint bro%v'Ti sauce (No. 6) 
1 shallot. 
1 oz. butter. 



3. SAUCE AMERICAINE (AMERICAN SAUCE). 

2 mushrooms. 
1^ gill white wine. 



1 bay-leaf. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 tomato. 



poultry or game bones. 

Melt the butter ; break up the bones and put into the butter, with the chopped 
shallot, the sliced tomato, one chopped mushroom, and the peppercorns. Fry these 
over the fire until a nice brown colour ; then add the wine, and cook again for a 
few minutes, and dilute with the brown sauce. Let this simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Strain into another saucepan ; put in the remaining mushroom, finely chopped. 
Boil up, and use when the mushroom is cooked. Serve with game or poultry. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season all the year, unless 
game is used, then in season from September to March. 

1—2 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



4. SAUCE BECHAMEL. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1| ozs. flour. 
1 pint milk. 



1 small onion. 

\ carrot. 

12 peppercorns. 



small blade of mace. 

salt. 



^ bay-leaf. 

1 clove. 

1 bouquet garni. 

Peel the onion, scrape the carrot ; put them into a saucepan ^vith the bay-leaf, 
peppercorns, bouquet garni, and clove ; add the milk, and bring to the boil. When 
the milk boils, take out the mace and bay-leaf. Melt the butter in a small saucepan , 
mix in the flour smoothly ; whisk into this the hot milk. Stir until it boils, then let 
it simmer from ten to fifteen minutes. Take out the bouquet ; rub the sauce through 
a sieve or tammy ; return to the saucepan and reheat. Season with salt. It is then 
ready for use. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



5. SAUCE BANQUIERE 



^ gill white Anne. 

6 peppercorns. 

^ pint brown stock. 



^ gill cream. 



1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 oz. butter. 



(BANKER'S SAUCE). 

1 pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 



cayenne. 



Put the wine, with the peppercorns, into a saucepan ; reduce well, then add the 
brown stock and veloute sauce ; reduce to a good consistency, then add the tomato 
sauce and the cream. Season with salt and cayenne, and finish by adding the butter 
in small pieces. Each piece of butter must melt before putting in the next, or the 
sauce Avill oil. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



1 carrot. 
1 onion. 



6. BROWN SAUCE. 

1 pint stock. IJ ozs. flour. 

2 ozs. butter. seasoning. 

Peel the onion, scrape the carrot ; cut them in slices. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan ; put in the vegetables, and fry them a dark brown, taking care not to 
let them burn. Stir in the flour, and fry a light brown ; add the stock, stir until 
it boils ; let it simmer for ten minutes ; skim off the fat as it rises ; season with 
pepper and salt. Strain through a hair sieve or through a tammy. It is then ready 
for use. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 16 minutes. 



4 shallots. 

i gill tarragon vinegar. 



7. BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

4 yolks of eggs. 
I gill malt vinegar. 
3 ozfl. butter. 



1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4), 
6 peppercorns. 



Peel and chop the shallots ; put them into a saucepan with the vinegars and 
peppercorns, crushed ; boil until the vinegar is reduced to one-third of the original 
quantity, then strain on to the white sauce, and, when hot, stir in the yolks of the 
eggs, one at a time, with a wooden spoon. Cook the eggs, but do not allow this sauce 
to boil. Add the butter in small pieces, letting each piece melt before putting in 
the next ; if put in too quickly, the sauce will oil. Season with salt and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 10 to 15 minutes. 

8. SAUCE BEARNAISE VERTE (GREEN BEARNAISE SAUCE). 

i pint Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). | 1^ ozs. Veuetienne butter (No. 186). 

Make the Bearnaise sauce, and mix in the Venetienne butter. 
Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



SAUCES 3 

9. SAUCE BfiARNAISE ROUGE (RED b£ARNAISE SAUCE). 
i pint Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). | 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Make the Bearnaise sauce, then stir in the tomato sauce ; make this hot, but do 
not let it boil. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 

10. SAUCE BEARNAISE AU RAIFORT (BEARNAISE SAUCE WITH HORSE- 
RADISH). 

^ pint Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). | 2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. 

Make the Bearnaise sauce, then add the grated horseradish. Season and use 
as required. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 

11. SAUCE BORDELAISE (BORDEAUX SAUCE). 



i pint brown sauce (No. 6). i 2 chopped shallots. 
I oz. meat-glaze. I salt and pepper. 



1 small v\aneglassful port or claret. 

1 teaspoonful parsley, tarragon, and chervil. 



Put the chopped shallots in a stewpan with the wine ; boil quickly until the wine 
is reduced to half ; add the brown sauce, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. 
Skim well, then add the meat-glaze and the chopped herbs. Boil up once more, 
and keep hot until required. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



12. SAUCE BRETONNE (BRITTANY SAUCE). 



1 leek. 



4 mushrooms. 



^ truffle. 



J pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 
1 stick celery. 2^ ozs. butter. \ gill white stock. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Cut the white part of the leek, the celery, and mushrooms into fine strips. Melt 
2 ozs. butter, add the vegetables, and cook for ten minutes ; dilute with the stock, 
and reduce well ; then add the veloute sauce and the cream ; finish with the | oz. 
butter and the truffle cut in fine strips. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

13. BREAD SAUCE. 
J pint milk. | 1 small onion. | 1 gill fresh breadcrumbs. | 1 oz. butter. ] pepper and salt. 
Put the milk into a saucepan with the onion, bring slowly to the boil, add the 
breadcrumbs, and let the sauce stand by the side of the fire for twenty minutes ; 
remove the onion, season with salt and pepper ; lastly, work in the butter. 
Average cost, 3d. Time required, 25 minutes. 

14. SAUCE AU BEURRE NOIR (BLACK BUTTER SAUCE). 
2 ozs. butter. | 1 teaspoonful vinegar. ] 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
Put the butter in an omelet pan, place it on the fire, and fry until it is a nut- 
brown colour ; then take off the fire, and stir in the vinegar and the chopped parsley. 
Average cost, 3d. Time required, 5 minutes. 

15. CAPER SAUCE, WHITE. 
1 oz. butter, | J oz. flour. | ^ pint milk. I 2 tablespoonfuls capers, j seasoning. 
Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, dilute with the milk, bring 
it to the boil, stirring all the time ; simmer for ten minutes ; season with salt and 
pepper, and, lastly, add the capers. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ pint b^o^\^l sauce (No. 6). 
1 lemon. 



1 tablespoon ful capers, 
salt. 



16. CAPER SAUCE, BROWN. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

1 shallot. 

1 tablespoonful of meat-glaze. 

Chop the shallot, put into a saucepan with the vinegar, and boil for a few 
minutes. Add the brown sauce, meat-glaze, and the juice of the lemon ; boil all this 
together, skim it, and strain through a fine strainer into another saucepan ; add 
the capers, and use as required. This sauce is served with grilled steak, kidneys, etc. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



17. CHESTNUT SAUCE, WHITE. 

\ lb. chestnuts. | | pint white stock. | \ lemon. | J gill thick cream. I cayenne. | salt. 

Remove the outer shell of the chestnuts, cook them quickly in boiling water 
for a few minutes, then drain and peal off the inner skin. Weigh the chestnuts ; 
take 6 ozs. of them and boil in the white stock, with the rind of the lemon, until 
tender ; then run through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, season with salt and 
cayenne ; lastly, stir in the cream, and serve. This sauce is served with turkeys and 
fowls. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, about 40 minutes. In season from October 
to February. 



18. CHESTNUT SAUCE, BROWN. 



\ lb. chestnuts. 



1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



cayenne. 

I pint brown stock. 



salt, 
nutmeg. 



Remove the outer shell of the chestnuts, throw them into boiling water for a few 
minutes, then drain, and peel off the inner skin. Take 6 ozs. of the chestnuts after 
they are peeled, and boil till tender in the stock. Then rub through a hair sieve, 
return to the saucepan ; season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Stir 
in the Espagnole sauce, and let it simmer for five or ten minutes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. In season from October to 
February. 



2 shallots. 

^ gill white wine. 



19. SAUCE CHASSEUR. 

1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

2 ozs. butter. 
4 mushrooms. 



^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
parsley. 



Peel and chop the shallots, and cook in 1 oz. butter without browning ; add the 
mushrooms, peeled and chopped, also the white wine. Cook this a little more ; then 
stir into it the brown and tomato sauces ; boil well ; season to taste with salt and 
pepper. When quite hot, put in the remaining ounce of butter in small pieces, 
allowing each piece to melt before the next is added. Lastly, stir into the sauce one 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



20. SAUCE COLBERT. 



\ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33) 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
1 oz. butter. 



lemon-juice. 

^ teaspoonful chopped cherviL 

salt. 



\ teaspoonful chopped tarragon. 
1 tablespoonful meat-glaze, 
cayenne. 

Reduce the Espagnole sauce to a good consistency, and add to it the chopped 
herbs, lemon-juice, cayenne, and salt. When hot, stir in the meat-glaze and the ounce 
of butter, a small piece at a time, until it is all melted. The sauce is then ready 
for use. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. 



SAUCES 



21. CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

^ cucumber. | ^ gill cream. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | pepper and salt. 

Peel the cucumber, cut in half lengthways, and take out the seeds ; boil the 

cucumber in salted water until tender, then take it up and drain it carefully. Rub 

through a hair sieve ; heat up the Bechamel sauce ; add the sieved cucumber, cream, 

and seasoning. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from March to 
September. 

22. SAUCE AU CELERI (CELERY SAUCE). 

1 small white head of celery. 

white stock and milk in equal quantities. 

Cut the celery into small pieces, taking only the white portions, wash well, and 
then boil in enough white stock and milk to well cover. When quite tender, take it 
up and drain well ; rub through a hair sieve. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, 
stir in the flour, and moisten with 1 pint of the liquor that the celery was boiled 
in. Cook this over the fire until it boils ; add seasoning, celery, and cream. Heat 
the sauce thoroughly without boiling. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. In season from October to March. 



1^ ozs. butter. 
l|^ ozs. flour. 



1 tablespoonful cream, 
salt. 



J tablespoonful curry-powder. 



23. CURRY SAUCE. 

2 onions. J gill white stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

Peel and chop the onions finely ; fry them, ^vithout browning, in the butter. 
Drain away the butter, add the curry-powder, cook a few minutes ; then add the 
stock ; let it reduce, and then pour in the veloute sauce ; bring it to the boil, and 
simmer for ten minutes. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

24. SAUCE CHAMPIGNONS BLANCHE (WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE). 



^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

salt. 

^ pint white stock. 



juice of I lemon. 
^ gill white wine. 
I gill cream. 



12 preserv'ed mushrooms. 
2 tablespoonfuls mushroom 
hquor. 

Put the Bechamel sauce and white stock into a saucepan, boil, and reduce to half 
the quantity. Add the mushrooms, cut in slices, the mushroom liquor, the lemon- 
juice, and the wine ; boil for ten minutes, season to taste, add the cream, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

25. SAUCE CHAMPIGNONS BRUNE (BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE). 

10 preserved mushrooms, j ^ gill sherry. | ^ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). | salt. 

Chop the mushrooms very finely ; put them into a small saucepan with the 
sherry and one tablespoonful of the mushroom liquor ; allow this to boil until reduced 
to half its original quantity ; then add the demi-glace sauce. Stir over the fire until 
thoroughly hot, season with salt, and it is then ready for use. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



26. SAUCE CHATEAUBRIAND. 



1 gill white wine. 
3 chopped shallots. 
1 sprig of thyme. 



i pint brown veal stock, 
a pinch of chopped tar- 
ragon. 



^ bay-leaf. 1 tablespoonful meat-glaze. 

I lemon. 1 teaspoonful chopped 

3 ozs. butter. parsley. 

Put the shallots, thyme, bay-leaf, and wine into a saucepan ; boil until it is reduced 
almost entirely, then add the stock, and boil until it is reduced to 1 gill. Add the 
meat-glaze, and then strain through a cloth. Return to the saucepan, and make 
hot. Take the saucepan off the fire, and work in the butter gradually. Just before 
serving, stir in the chopped herbs, and season to taste. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, | hour. 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOR 



1 onion. 

2 tomatoes. 



i pint brown sauce 
' (No. 6). 



6 crushed peppercorns, 
salt and cayenne. 



27. SAUCE CREOLE. 

1 oz. butter. 

J gill white wine. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the onion, shced, and the peppercorns ; 
fry this without browning, dilute with the wine, and reduce a httle ; then add the 
brown sauce, and simmer for twenty minutes. Peel the tomatoes, take out the 
seeds, cut in large dice, put into the sauce, and cook for another ten minutes. 
Season to taste with salt and a pinch of cayenne. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. 



1| ozs. butter, 
1 oz. flour. 



(BRAIN SAUCE). 

1 set of calf's brains, 
salt. 



squeeze of lemon-juice. 

^ teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 



28. SAUCE CERVELLES 

^ onion. 
1 pint milk. 

Wash the brains well, put them into a saucepan of water with the onion, bring to 
the boil, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Take up, drain well, and then rub the 
brains through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add tho 
milk, and stir over the fire until boiling ; let it simmer for five or ten minutes. Add 
the brains, lemon-juice, seasoning, and chopped parsley. Heat thoroughly, and 
serve with boiled calf's head. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 

29. DEMI-GLACE SAUCE. 

\ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | pepper. | \ gill good gravy. 

Reduce the Espagnole sauce with the gravy, simmer for fifteen minutes, strain 
through a fine strainer ; season with pepper, and use. 
Average cot, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



30. 



SAUCE DUXELLE. 



1 shallot. 

1 truffle. 

2 mushrooma. 



\ lemon. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

1 oz. butter. 



J pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

1 tablespoonful chopped, cooked ham. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Melt the butter, and fry the chopped shallot ; add the mushrooms and truffle, 
also chopped ; moisten with the brown sauce ; stir over the fire until thoroughly hot ; 
add the ham and egg-yolks ; cook over a slow fire until the eggs are cooked. The 
sauce must not be allowed to boil. Lastly, stir into it the chopped parsley and one 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Add seasoning if required. 

Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



Average cost, 



31. SAUCE DIABLE (DEVILLED SAUCE). 



1 tablespoonful 

vinegar. 
10 peppercorns. 



2 chopped shallots. 
^ pint brown sauce 
(No. 6). 



J teaspoonful 

made mustard. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ teaspoonful Worcester 

sauce, 
cayenne. 



Reduce the vinegar with the shallots and crushed peppercorns ; dilute with the 
brown sauce ; simmer for ten minutes ; add the made mustard and the Worcester 
sauce ; season with salt and cayenne, andfinishbyadding the ounce of butter gradually. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



J pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
10 preserved mushrooms. 



32. SAUCE DUCHESSE. 

^ gill cream. 1 tablespoonful cooked ox- 

1 oz. butter. tongue. 



Put the Bechamel sauce in a saucepan ; when hot, stir in the cream, the mush- 
rooms, and tongue, both finely chopped. When thoroughly hot, add the butter in 
small pieces, letting each piece melt before adding the next. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 10 minutes. 



SAUCES 7 

33. SAUCE ESPAGNOLE. 
1 pint brown sauoe (No. 6). | i pint tomato sauce (No. 77). | 1 glass of sherry. 
Heat the brown sauce, add to it the tomato sauce and the glass of sherry, bring 
to the boil, and simmer for ten minute; ; skim well, strain through a tammy cloth 
or hair sieve, and it is ready for use. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

34. SAUCE FINANCIERE. 

A pint brown sauce (No. 6). 1 shallot. I ^ oz. butter. 

i tablcspoonful meat-glaze. 1 large mushroom. | I gill sherry. 

Peel and chop the shallot ; melt the butter in a saucepan ; fry the shallot in it 
nntil a pale brown ; add the mushroom, chopped, also the sherry. Let this boil 
antil reduced to half, then stir in the meat-glaze and brown sauce. Stir over the 
fire for a few minutes, strain into another saucepan, and use as required. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

35. SAUCE FERMIERE. 

1 pint Espagnole sauce (No 33). I 2 ozs. lean ham. 1 tablespoonful chopped 

1 tablcs[>oonful capers. | salt. parsley. 

Chop the ham and capers finely ; put these in a saucepan ; add the sauce to them, 
and bring to the boil. Simmer for twenty minutes, then add the parsley, and serve. 
This sauce is used with game. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 25 minutes. 

36. SAUCE GIBIER (GAME SAUCE). 
1 small onion. 



a piece of carrot. 
1 sprig of thyme. 



1 bay-leaf. 

1 clove. 

^ gill sherry. 



small piece of mace. 

1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

carcasses, etc., of any kind of game. 



Chop up the carcasses and trimmings of game ; put them in a saucepan with tlio 
vegetables, cut in slices, the herbs and spice ; moisten with the wine ; cook over the 
fire for five minutes. Add the brown sauce, boil up, and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Pass through a sieve, reheat, season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. In season from September to 
March. 

37. SAUCE GRANDVENEUR. 



i gill vinegar. J gill port wine. 

8 peppercorns. seasoning. 



1 tablespoonful red- i ^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
currant jelly. I J oz. unsweetened chocolate. 



Crush the peppercorns ; put them, with the vinegar, into a saucepan ; reduce 
until nearly dry ; grate the chocolate, and add to the vinegar ; moisten with the wine 
and brown sauce ; add the jelly. Simmer for twenty minutes, season to taste, and 
Btrain. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



1 onion. 

2 OZ8. butter. 



38. SAUCE HONGROISE (HUNGARIAN SAUCE). 
1 gill white wine. I 1 teaspoonful paprika I 1 pint velout6 sauce (No. 82). 
1 gill cream. I pepper. I seasoning. 

Chop the onion finely, and fry it in 1 oz. butter until a nice brown colour ; add 
the wine, and reduce to half ; then stir in the sauce and the paprika pepper. Simmer 
for fifteen minutes ; stir in the cream, and season to taste ; finish with the other 
ounce of butter, put in gradually. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 25 minutes. 



8 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 pint bro-wn sauce (No. 6). 
6 mushrooms. 



S9. SAUCE HACHIS. 

1 dessertspoonful of capers. 
1 dessertspoonful of gherkins. 

Peel the mushrooms, chop them fmely ; also the gherkins. Warm the brown 
sauce ; add the chopped ingredients and the capers ; simmer for twenty minutes. 
Serve vnih. brown meats. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 25 minutes. 



2 ozs. lean cooked ham. | \ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
1 oz. butter. 2 shallots. 



40. HAM SAUCE. 

juice of I lemon. I \ teaspoonful chopped 
pepper. I parsley. 

Cup up the ham in fine shreds ; chop the shallots. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
add the ham and shallots, fry for five minutes ; then stir in the brown sauce, lemon- 
juice, and seasoning. Simmer the sauce for five minutes, add the parsley, and serve. 
This sauce is used vnih. white meats. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



I pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). j 1 oz. butter. 

a few mushroom -peelings. I 1 glass white wine. 



41. SAUCE ITALIENNE (ITALIAN SAUCE). 

4 shallots. 
\ gill stock. 

Peel and chop the shallots ; melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the shallots 
and the mushroom-peelings ; cook over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it 
colour ; then add the wine and the stock. Let it reduce well ; stir in the Espagnole 
sauce. Boil for ten minutes, strain, and keep hot until required. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

42. SAUCE JARDINIERE. 

1 carrot. I 1 onion. I J pint brown sauce (No. 6). I 1 tablespoonful cooked 

1 turnip. I 2 ozs. bntter. ! | gill stock. I green peas. 

Gut the onion, carrot, and turnip into small dice. Melt 1 oz. butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the vegetables, and cook slightly in the butter ; cover with enough stock 
to cook them. Simmer gently until the vegetables are tender, then strain and 
put aside until needed. Put the browTi sauce and the | gill of stock into a saucepan, 
and let it reduce to a good consistency ; then add the prepared vegetables and the 
peas. Simmer for ten minutes ; season with salt and a pinch of sugar ; finish the 
sauce with 1 oz. butter, put in gradually. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

43. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 

1 oz. butter. | | oz. flour. | ^ pint milk. | salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes, 

but do not let the flour brown ; then add the milk ; bring it to the boil, stirring all 

the time ; then season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer for at least ten 

minutes. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

44. SAUCE A LA MOELLE (MARROW SAUCE). 



i gill white wine. 
2 chopped shallots. 



beef marrow. 

1 gill brown stock. 



^ pint brown sauce 
(No. 6). 

Put the chopped shallots in a stewpan with the wine ; reduce to half ; then add 
the brown sauce and the stock ; boil until a good consistency, strain, and add the beef- 
marrow, which must be parboiled and cut in slices. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 



SAUCES 



45. MADRAS SAUCE. 



I onion. | J gill white stock. i tablespoonful curry- 

salt. I I pint veloiite sauce (No. 82). i powder. 



1 oz. butt«r. 

1^ gills tomato sauce (No. 77). 



Chop the onion, and fry in the butter ; add the curry-powder, fry a little, and 
dilute -wdth the stock and sauce. Reduce to a good consistency ; then add the 
tomato sauce, and season to taste. Strain and use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



46. SAUCE MARECHALE (MARSHAL SAUCE). 



I teaspoonful chopped tarragon-leaves. 
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar. 



1 lemon, 
cayenne. 



1 tablespoonful meat-glaze. 
^ pint cro^vn sauce (No. 6). 

Put the tarragon vinegar into a saucepan, and let it reduce to one-third of the 
quantity ; then add the bro\^Ti sauce and meat-glaze ; reduce for ten minutes, then 
stir in the juice of the lemon, a pinch of cayenne, and the chopped tarragon. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



47. SAUCE MARSEILLAISE. 

2 ozs. butter. I 1 bay-leaf. 2 ozs. streaky bacon. I salt. 

1 lb. tomatoes, i U ozs. flour. 1 l^ pints white stock. | pepper. 



Cut the onion and carrot into slices ; put them into a stew-pan, with the stock. 
Add the tomatoes, which should be cut in halves and the pips removed. Cook 
until tender. Chop up the bacon into dice ; put it into a stewpan mth half the 
butter. Cook over the fire for a few minutes ; mix in the flour ; cook without browning. 
Add to this the stock, vegetables, bay-leaf, and tomatoes. Simmer gently for 
fifteen minutes ; season with salt and pepper. Pass through a hair sieve. Return 
to saucepan, reheat, and add by degrees the rest of the butter. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 40 minutes. 

48. SAUCE MAINTENON. 

3 yolks of eggs. I 1 pint Bechamel sauce j 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. cayenne. 

1 oz. butter. j (No. 4). 1 sliced onion. salt. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sliced onion, and fry a few minutes 
without browning ; add the Bechamel sauce, and reduce well by boihng for about 
twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the 
yolks of eggs, thicken the sauce, and cook the eggs over the fire, but do not let it 
boil, or the sauce will curdle. Lastly, stir in the cheese and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes, 

49. MINT SAUCE. 

3 tablespoonfuls mint. 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. 

6 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 1 dessertspoonful boiling water. 

Put the sugar into a sauce tureen ; add to it the boiling water to melt the sugar ; 
let it cool. Chop the mint finely, add to the sugar, and mix together ; then add 
gradually the vinegar. It is then ready to use. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 5 minutes. 

50. SAUCE MAD£RE (MADEIRA SAUCE). 
1 pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). | ^ oz. meat-glaze. | 1 glass Madeira or sherry. 

Heat the sauce, add the wine, and boil for fifteen minutes ; finish with the meat- 
glaze. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



10 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



51. SAUCE NEAPOLITAINE. 



2 tablespoon fuls grated horse- 
radish. 
J pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

1 tablespoonful Harvey sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls red -currant jolly. 



1 oz. lean ham. 
small piece of mace. 
1 glass port wine. 
1 gill stock, 
a little glaze. 



2 shallots. 

bay-leaf. 

sprig of thyme. 

2 cloves. 

10 peppercorns. 

Put the horseradish, chopped shallots, chopped ham, bay-leaf, thyme, and 
spices into a saucepan. Add the wine and stock, boil well, and reduce ; then stir 
in the brown sauce, Harvey sauce, red-currant jelly, and seasoning. Simmer for 
fifteen minutes, add the glaze, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 

52. SAUCE A L'OSEILLE (SORREL SAUCE). 
\ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). | 1 tablespoonful blanched sorrel -leaves. 
Put the sorrel-leaves into a saucepan, cover them wdth cold water, and bring 
to the boil. Drain and press well to extract all the water ; chop finely ; add this to 
the sauce. Simmer for ten mirutes. Serve with boiled fowls. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

53. SAUCE OPORTO (PORT WINE SAUCE). 



1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
12 peppercorns. 



1 tablespoonful red- 
currant jelly. 



1 gill port wine. 
1 gill game stock. 

Put the peppercorns and wine into a saucepan, reduce to half, then add the game 
stock and brown sauce ; boil until reduced to a good consistency ; add the jelly. 
Simmer for five minutes, then strain. This sauce is generally served with game. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. In season from September to 
March. 

54. SAUCE AUX OLIVES (OLIVE SAUCE). 



J pint Espagnole sauce 
(No. 33). 



1 dessertspoonful of chopped lemon-juice, 

salt. 



olives. 

Heat up the Espagnole sauce, season to taste, stir in the chopped olives, and 
finish with a squeeze of lemon-juice. Serve with ducks and poultry. 
Average cost, 7d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



1 orange. | | lemon. 



55. SAUCE ORANGE. 

1 teaspoonful of red- 
currant jelly. \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). I 1 gill stock. 

Peel half the orange very thinly, taking care not to take off any of the white 
pith. Cut this peel into very thin strips, put them into a saucepan, cover with 
cold water, and let it come to the boil ; then strain off the water, and keep the strips 
until required. Put the Espagnole sauce in a saucepan with the stock, red-currant 
jelly, and the juice of the orange. Let these boil until it is reduced to a good con- 
sistency ; it should be thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. Then add a squeeze 
of lemon-juice and the strips of orange-peel. Season with pepper and salt. Use 
with wild-duck and other game. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

56. SAUCE AUX OIGNONS (ONION SAUCE). 

2 large onions. | 1 oz. butter. | ^ pint milk. | ^ oz. flour. | pepper. | salt. 

Peel the onions, cut them in quarters, and cook them in water, with a little salt, 

until tender. Drain them, and chop finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir 

in the flour, add the milk, and stir until it boils ; put in the chopped onions, season 

to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



SAUCES 



11 



57. SAUCE AUX OIGNONS BRUNE (BROWN ONION SAUCE). 
2 large onions. | J pint brown sauce (No. 6). | 1 oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful glaze. 

Peel the onions and chop finely, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, 
and fry a light bro\vn. Add the brown sauce, and let it simmer for ten minutes. 
Rub through a hair sieve, return to saucepan, stir in the glaze. Simmer for a few 
minutes. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
^ oz. butter. 



12 peppercorns. 
J oz. raw ham. 



58. SAUCE POIVRADE (PEPPER SAUCE). 

J small onion. 
I small carrot. 

Cut the onion and carrot in slices, mince the ham, fry these in the butter for a 
few minutes, add the crushed peppercorns, di'lute with the sauce, boil for ten minutes. 
Skim well and strain. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



4 shallots. 
3 mushrooms. 
1 bay -leaf. 
A carrot. 



59. SAUCE PIQUANTE (SHARP SAUCE). 

^ teaspoonful anchovy 



essence. 
1 tablespoonful Harvey 
sauce. 



I oz. flour. 

salt. 

cayenne. 



1 sprig thyme. 
1 oz. butter. 
^ gill vinegar. 
I pint brown stock. 

Peel and chop the shallots, carrot, and mushrooms ; melt the butter in a saucepan ; 
fry the vegetables a nice bro^vn ; then add the vinegar, bay-leaf, and thyme. Reduce 
the vinegar to half the quantity ; stir in the flour, dilute with the stock, bring to the 
boil ; then add the anchovy essence, Harvey sauce, salt, and cayenne. Take out 
the thyme and bay-leaf. Simmer for ten minutes. Skim, and use as required. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 



60. SAUCE PROVENCALE. 



I pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

1 onion. 

1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 



I oz. butter. 

1 teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. 



cayenne. 

3 mushrooms. 

lemon-juice. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; peel and chop the onion, and fry a light bro\vn 
in the butter ; peel the mushrooms, cut them into very thin slices, and cook them 
with the onion ; add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, the cayenne pepper, and a 
squeeze of lemon-juice. Let this get thoroughly hot, and just before serving add 
the teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



61. PARSLEY SAUCE. 



^ oz. butter. 



1| gills milk, 
pepper and salt. 



1 dessertspoonful chopped 
i oz. flour. parsley. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, mix in the flour, add the milk, stir until it 
boils, simmer for ten minutes ; then add the parsley, pepper, and salt. 
Average cost, 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

62. PERIGUEUR SAUCE (PERIGORD SAUCE). 

4 truffles. 1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). I 1 oz. butter. 

^ gill sherry. 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). I salt. 

Chop the truffles very fmely ; put them into a saucepan with the sherry. Let it 
boil until reduced to ^ gill, then add the brown and tomato sauces, and boil again 
for a few minutes ; lastly, add salt and the butter in small pieces, allowing each 
piece to melt before adding the next. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



12 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

63. SAUCE POMPADOUR. 



2 chopped shallots. 

6 preserved mushrooma. 
1 oz. butter. 

3 yolks of eggs. 



h pint veloute sauce (No. 82). h lemon. 

\ gill white stock. salt. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. pepper. 

2 tablespoon fuls cream. 

Put the chopped mushrooms and shallots in a saucepan with the butter, cook for 
a few minutes without browning, then add to them the sauce and the stock. Simmer 
for twenty minutes ; skim well. Thicken the sauce with the yolks of eggs ; add the 
cream and seasoning. Stir until quite hot, but do not boil. Mix in the parsley, 
finely chopped ; also a squeeze of lemon-juice, if liked. Keep hot until required. 

Average cost, la. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

64. SAUCE A LA POLONAISE. 

2 ozs. butter. J lemon. i 1 tablespoonful parsley. | pepper. 

1 oz. flour. 1 pint white stock. ! 4 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. \ salt. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and let it boil, 
stirring all the time ; add the horseradish, salt, and pepper. Simmer for ten 
minutes ; then add the finely chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon. The 
sauce is now ready for serving. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

65. SAUCE POULETTE. 

2 ozs. butter. | | oz. flour. | J lemon. | f pint white stock. | 2 yolks of eggs. 

Melt 1 oz. butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook a httle without 
browning ; then add the stock, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Let it cool a few 
minutes, and then stir in the egg-yolks and the rest of the butter, added gradually. 
Cook the eggs, but do not let the sauce boil again. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

66. SAUCE PALOISE. 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 shallots. I f gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | J tablespoonful chopped 

I gill vinegar, i 3 egg-yolks. I mint. 



1 oz. meat-glaze. 



Put the chopped shallots and mint into a saucepan with the wine ; reduce until 
nearly dry, then add the Bechamel sauce, and bring to the boil. Stir in the egg- 
yolks, and cook without boiling ; mix the butter in by degrees, in small pieces ; and, 
lastly, add the meat-glaze just before serving. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

67. SAUCE REFORME (FOR CUTLETS A LA REFORME). 
^ pint poivrade sauce (No. 58). | 1 glass port wine. | 1 dessertspoonful red-currant jelly. 
Heat the poivrade sauce ; add the wine and red-currant jelly. Boil well for ten 
minutes ; then strain and use. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



1 shallot. 
1 oz. butter. 



68. SAUCE ROBERT. 

J gill sherry. j I gi^l tomato sauce (No. 77). 

1| gills brown sauce (No. 6). | salt and mustard. 



Peel and chop the shallots. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped 
shallot, and fry a light brown ; then stir in a saltspoonful of dry mustard and the 
mne. Let this boil for a few minutes ; add the brown and tomato sauces. Let this 
simmer for fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



SAUCES 13 

69. SAUCE REGENCE. 



1 gill chicken stock. 

2 ozs. raw ham. 



1 shallot. 1 oz. butter. 

1 onion. J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

Chop the shallot and onion ; cut the ham into small pieces ; fry these ingredient3 
in the butter ; dilute with the chicken stock, boil for a few minutes, and then add 
the brown sauce. Simmer this sauce until a creamy consistency. Strain and use 
as required. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

70. SAUCE RICHELIEU. 

i pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). , salt. i H ozs. butter. | 1 gill game stock. 

1 glass Madeira or sherry. ' 2 truffles. I 2 shallots. 1 teaspoonful Bovril. 

Chop the shallots, melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the shallots a golden 
colour ; add the wine, and reduce to half. Dilute with the stock and Espagnole 
sauce, bring to the boil, add the Bovril, and s^'mmer for ten minutes. Strain, and 
add the truffles, finely chopped. Serve with game. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. In season from September to 
March. 

71. SAUCE RAIFORT CHAUDE (HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE). 

^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 1 J teaspoonful vinegar, i cayenne. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. | | teaspoonful sugar. I salt. 

Pour the vinegar over the horseradish ; stir this into the sauce ; boil up, stirring 
all the time. Add the sugar cayenne, and salt ; let the sauce simmer for ten minutes. 
Serve with hot roast beef, etc. 

Average cost, Od. Time required, 15 minutes. 

72. SAUCE RAVIGOTE. 

2 shallots. I 1 teaspoonful chopped | 1 pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

J gill vinegar. I tarragon and chervil. I 2 ozs. Venetian butter (No. 185). 

Chop the shallots, put them with the vinegar in a saucepan, reduce to a third of 
the quantity, then add the sauce ; stir until it boils. Let it simmer for ten minutes. 
Strain, and add the chopped herbs. Warm up, and stir in the Venetian butter. 
Mix well, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

73. SAUCE RUISSEAU (WATERCRESS SAUCE). 

1 bunch of watercress. I 1 tablespoonful capers, j 3 gills Allemande i 2 ozs. butter. 
1 gill white stock. | 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. I sauce (No. I). | seasoning. 

Wash the cress, take off the stalks, put the leaves into a saucepan, cover with 
cold water, bring to the boil, and then strain. Put the cress into a mortar, with the 
capers, hard-boiled yolk, and butter ; pound well, and rub through a fine sieve. 
Mix the sauce and stock together in a saucepan ; let it boil, and then reduce to a good 
consistency. Stir the green puree in by degrees ; season to taste. Strain through 
a strainer ; return to saucepan, and make hot, but do not let it boil again. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. 

74. SAUCE SUPREME. 

2^ ozs. butter. I 6 peppercorns. I 1 pint chicken or veal stock. | 1 gill cream. 
l| ozs. flour. I 1 bouquet garni. | mushroom -peelings. I salt. 

Melt 1| ozs. butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, dilute with the white stock, 
and cook over the fire until boiling ; then add the mushroom-peelings, herbs, pepper- 
corns, and salt. Let this simmer gently for twenty to thirty minutes ; strain through 
a fine strainer into another saucepan. Add the cream ; stir over the fire until hot, but 



14 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

aot boiling ; then add the remaining ounce of butter, a small piece at a time, allow- 
ing each piece to melt before adding the next. If the butter is put in too quickly, 
the sauce will oil ; but if put in carefully, will greatly improve it. 
Average cost, Is. Time required, 40 minutes. 

75. SAUCE SOUBISE (ONION SAUCE). 

6 large onions. | \ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | | gill cream. | milk. | salt. 

Peel the onions, cut into quarters, and boil them in milk until tender ; take 
them up, and press all the milk out, then rub through a hair sieve. Put it into a 
saucepan with the Bechamel sauce, cream, and seasoning. Heat this over the fire, 
and it is then ready for use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. 

76. SAUCE SALMI. 

I pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). I 2 shallots. 1 glass port -vdne. I 1 teaspoonful red- 

carcass of cooked game. ' 1| ozs. butter. 1 gill game stock. 1 currant jelly. 

Peel and chop the shallots ; melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the shallota 
a golden colour ; chop the carcass of game, and fry in a little butter ; drain, and put 
with the shallots ; add the wine, cover the saucepan, and cook for a few minutes. 
Dilute with the stock and sauce, bring to the boil, and then simmer for ten to fifteen 
minutes. Skim well and strain ; add the red-currant jelly and seasoning ; heat up, 
and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from September to 
March. 

77. TOMATO SAUCE. 



2 lbs. tomatoes. 
2 ozs. lean ham. 
6 peppercorns. 



^ oz. cornflour. I 1 sprig thyme. 

1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. 



1 small carrot. ' salt. 

Peel and cut up the onion and carrot in slices. Chop the ham, melt the butter in 
a stewpan put in the vegetables and ham ; let them cook a little, then add the 
tomatoes, cut in slices, the sprig of thyme, peppercorns, and salt. Simmer for ten 
minutes ; then rub the sauce through a hair sieve ; return it to the saucepan to re- 
heat. When boihng, stir in the cornflour, previously mixed with a little cold water. 
Let the sauce boil for a few minutes, so as to thoroughly cook the cornflour. Serve 
as required. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2 tangerine oranges. 
\ gill port wine. 



J pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 



78. TANGERINE SAUCE. 
1 teaspoonful red-currant 

jelly. 

Peel the tangerines very thinly, and cut into narrow strips. Put them into cold 
water, and bring up to the boil ; strain, and keep till required. Boil the port wine, 
red-currant wine, demi-glace and tomato sauces until of a nice consistency ; then 
strain into another saucepan, and add the tangerine strips. Season with salt, and 
use for serving with boiled tongue and game. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. In season from November to 
February. 

79. SAUCE TOULOUSE. 



\ pint Allemande sauce 
(No. 1). 



J gill white wine. 
1 truffle. 



4 mushrooms. 
\ oz. meat-glaze. 



Heat the sauce, add to it the wine, and bring to the boil ; shce the truffle, chop 
the mushrooms, and stir these into the sauce. Just before serving add the meat- 
glaze. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



SAUCES 15 

80. TARRAGON SAUCE, CLEAR. 

1 pint white stock. small bunch of tarragon. 

white of 1 egg. 1 tablespoonfiil tarragon \anegar. 

Put the stock into a saucepan ; add to it the bunch of tarragon, the vinegar, and 
the white of egg. whipped ; whisk this over the fire until it boils ; simmer until the 
egg is set hard and the sauce is clear. Strain into a stewpan, and boil to the con- 
sistency of half glaze. Serve with quenelles and boiled fowls. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required 30 minutes. 

81. SAUCE VALOIS. 
1 gill Beamaise sauce (No. 7). | 2 tablespoon fuls meat-glaze. 

Prepare the Bearnaise sauce ; add to it the meat-glaze. The sauce should be a 
fawn colour. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. 

82. SAUCE VELOUTE (VELVET SAUCE). 

1^ ozs. butter, i 1 pint white stock. Mushroom-peelings, i 1 small bouquet 

l| ozs. flour. I 6 peppercorns. salt. I garni. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook over the fire without 
browning for a few minutes. Add the white stock, and stir until it boils ; then put 
in the mushroom-peelings, peppercorns, bouquet garni, and salt to taste. Let this 
simmer gently for thirty minutes ; strain, and use as required. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 35 minutes. 

83. SAUCE VERT-PRE (GREEN SAUCE). 



J pint veloute sauce (No. 82). j ^ gill white wine. 
1 tablespoonful cooked 2 shallots, 

spinach. I 2 oze. butter. 



2 or 3 sprigs parsley. 

salt and pepper. 

a few tarragon-leaves. 



Chop the shallots, put them with the wine into a stewpan, reduce to half the 
quantity. Stir in the sauce, and simmer for five minutes. Blanch the parsley and 
tarragon, drain well, put these into a mortar with the spinach, and pound with 
1 oz. butter ; rub through a sieve, and stir it into the sauce. Whisk in the remaining 
1 oz. butter, season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. 

84. SAUCE VILLEROY. 

2 ozs. butter. f oz. flour. juice of | lemon. 

^ pint milk. 1 gill white stock. 2 ozs. cooked ham. 

2 egg-yolks. ^ gill cream. seasoning. 

Put 1 OZ. butter in a stewpan ; when melted, stir in the flour ; cook a little with- 
out browTiing, then add the milk and stock ; simmer for fifteen minutes ; bind with 
the egg-yolks and cream. Do not boil again. Add the ham, finely chopped. 1 oz. 
butter, lemon-juice, and seasoning. This sauce is used for coating solids, and must 
be thick. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 

HOT FISH SAUCES 

85. ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

1 oz. butter. 1| gills milk. i 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence. 

^ oz. flour. ^ gill fish stock. ' seasoning. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little, then dilute with 
the milk and stock ; stir until it boils ; simmer for ten minutes ; season with pepper, 
and then mix in the anchovy essence. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

PT. I. 2 



16 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

86. SAUCE AURORE (AURORA SAUCE). 

J pint Bechamel sauce (Xo. 4). 1 gill fish stock. 1 gill thick tomato sauce 

1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). | I gill cream. | (No. 77). 

Put the Bechamel sauce into a stewpan with the fish stock and cream, reduce to a 
good consistency, then add the tomato sauce. Season to taste, and then stir in by 
degrees the lobster butter. It is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 



87. BROWN FISH SAUCE. 



1 oz. butter. 



1 onion. 



I oz. flour. J pint fish stock. 



4 mushrooms. 
1 gill claret. 



salt and pepper, 
fish-bones. 



Break up the fish-bones, and fry them in the butter with the onion, cut in slices ; 
add the flour, bro\vn it a little ; put in the mushrooms, chopped ; dilute with the 
claret and stock. Stir until it boils, and cook gently for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Strain through a fine sieve or strainer ; season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



88. SAUCE BLANC (WHITE SAUCE). 



1 oz. butter. 
I oz. flour. 



1 gill fish stock. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. 1 shallot. I lemon-juice, 

pepper and salt. small piece of mace. 1 clove. | 1 gill milk. 

Boil the milk with the fish liquor, the shallot (peeled), clove, and mace. Melt 
the butter in a small stewpan ; stir in the flour. When the milk boils, whisk in the 
flour and butter ; when thoroughly mixed, take out the whisk, and stir with a 
wooden spoon. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan ; 
season with lemon-juice, salt, and pepper ; heat up, and add the cream, but do not 
let it boil again. The cream may be omitted. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

89. SAUCE BLANCHET. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. [ 1 teaspoonful Harvey sauce, cayenne. I 1 teaspoon ful mushroom 

1 teaspoonful Worcester sauce. | 1 wineglassful sherry. I 2 ozs. butter. | ketchup. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; add the sherry, anchovy essence, Harvey and 
Worcester sauces, and mushroom ketchup. Make this very hot, and season with 
'^ayenne pepper. This sauce is served with baked and fried fish. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 5 minutes. 

90. SAUCE CARDINAL. 

f pint Bechamel sauce juice of ^ lemon. | J gill cream. I salt. 

(No. 4). ^ gill fish stock. | 1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). j pepper. 

Warm up the Bechamel sauce, add the fish stock, and reduce to a good consis- 
tency ; season with salt and pepper. Mix in the cream and lemon- juice, then 
whisk in the lobster butter ; stir until smooth. Strain through a hair sieve or 
tammy. Return to the saucepan, and keep hot until required. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



91. DUTCH SAUCE. 



2 yolks raw eggs. 
1 oz. butter. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful cream. 

Put all the ingredients into a small stewpan ; place it within another stewpan 
of larger size, containing half a pint of hot water ; then proceed to whisk the sauce 
Bwiftly, until it begins to thicken and is of a creamy appearance. Great care must 
be taken to prevent the sauce from curdling. If this accident should occur, it may 
be remedied by adding another yo\k of egg or a spoonful of white sauce. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



SA UCES 17 

92. SAUCE DIPLOMATE. 

i pint Normande sauce (No. 113). J gill cream. 

1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). 2 tablespoon fuls lobster-meat. 

Prepare the Normande sauce, omitting the herbs ; add to it the lobster-meat 
cut in small pieces ; stir in the cream, and finish with the lobster butter, which 
should be added by degrees. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



93. SAUCE DANOISE (DANISH SAUCE). 



2 ozs. butter. 

1 oz. flour. 

^ pint fish stock. 



J gill cream. 

I oz. lobster butter (No. 179). 

salt and pepper. 



1 gill white wine. 

J oz. Parmesan cheese. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 

Put the butter into a stewpan, and when melted stir in the flour, and cook with- 
out allowing it to brown. Add the fish stock and wine ; bring to the boil, stirring 
all the time ; then add the anchovy essence, grated cheese, salt, and pepper. Let 
the sauce simmer for ten minutes ; skim and strain. Return to the saucepan, and 
bring to the boil ; stir in the cream and lobster butter ; do not let the sauce boil 
again. Serve with salmon, turbot, lobster, or soles. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 

94. SAUCE AUX ECREVISSE (PRAWN SAUCE). 

J pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | J lemon. | 1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). | 12 p^a^vns. 

Heat the Bechamel sauce ; shell the prawns, and cut them in quarters ; add 
these to the sauce, also the lemon- juice, and, lastly, the lobster butter, added in 
small pieces. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Shrimp sauce 
(sauce aux crevettes) is prepared in the same way, substituting shrimps for prawns. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



95. FISH GRATIN SAUCE. 



1 oz. butter. 

2 shallots. 

salt. 



4 large mushrooms. I ^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
1 gill white wine. 1 tablespoonful chopped herbs. 

1 oz. meat-glaze. | 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 

Melt the butter ; peel and chop the shallots, and fry a pale brown in the butter ; 
then add the mushrooms, peeled and chopped. Cook these over the fire for a few 
minutes ; add the wine, and reduce to half its original quantity. Stir in the brown 
sauce and meat-glaze ; let this simmer gently for ten minutes ; add the anchovy 
essence and the chopped herbs (parsley and chervil). 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

96. SAUCE AUX FINES HERBES (FINE HERB SAUCE). 

^ gill fish stock. 2 gills veloute sauce (No. 82). juice ^ lemoa. 

2 yolks of eggs. { 1 tablespoonful parsley. caj^eruie. 

1 oz. butter. | 1 teaspociiful tarragon and chervil. salt. 

Put the veloute sauce and the fish stock into a saucepan, and reduce to a good 
consistency ; bind with the yolks of eggs, but do not allow it to boil again ; add tha 
chopped herbs, the lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne ; lastly, the butter, added gradually. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. 

97. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

i pint green gooseberries. | ^ oz. sugar. | 1 gill melted butter sauce (No. 43). | 1 oz. butter. 
Top and tail the gooseberries, put them into a saucepan of water, and let them 
simmer gently until tender. Drain the water away carefully, and then rub the goose- 
berries through a hair sieve. Warm up the melted butter sauce, taking care that it is 
not too thick ; stir in the gooseberries, the sugar, and, lastly, the butter, in small pieces. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2—2 



18 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

98. SAUCE GENEVOIS (GENEVA SAUCE). 

\ pint brown fish sauce (No. 87). 1 teaspoonful anchovy i | gill sherry. 

IJ ozs. butter. essence. j 1 shallot. 

Peel and chop the shallot finely, put into a saucepan with the wine, and let it 
simmer for five minutes ; then stir in the bro^\^l fish stock and the anchovy essence ; 
bring it to the boil, and then stir in the butter. This should be put in a small piece 
at a time, letting each piece melt before adding the next. The sauce is then ready 
for use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



1 onion. 
1 shallot. 



99. SAUCE GENOISE (GENOESE SAUCE). 

1 glass claret. | 1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 1 teaspoonful anchovy 

essence. 



1 oz. butter. j \ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

Slice the onion and shallot, fry them in the butter in a small stewpan ; add the 
mne, and reduce Avell ; stir in the browTi sauce, add the bouquet garni, bring to the 
boil, and cook for fifteen minutes. Strain, return to the saucepan, add seasoning and 
anchovy essence, and use as required. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

100. SAUCE GOUFFE. 
^ gill vinegar. | \ bay-leaf. | 6 peppercorns. | 2 yolks of eggs. | 1 oz. lobster. | 1 gill cream. 

Reduce the vinegar in a stewq^an, with the bay-leaf and crushed peppercorns. 
Stir in the yolks of eggs over the fire ; cook until the sauce begins to thicken ; put 
the ste\\-pan containing the sauce into a larger saucepan, with hot water ; stir with 
a small whisk, adding the cream ; work the butter in carefully by degrees. Strain 
through a strainer or cloth, return to the saucepan, and add the lobster, finely 
chopped. Season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 

101. SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

i oz. butter. | \ oz. flour. | \ pint milk. | 3 yolks of eggs. | juice of \ lemon. | salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir until boihng ; season 
with pepper and salt ; simmer for ten minutes. Take the saucepan from the fire, 
and let the sauce cool for a few minutes before adding the yolks of eggs ; whisk these 
in carefully, and cook over the fire, but the sauce must on no account be allowed to 
boil, or the eggs will curdle ; lastly, add the lemon-juice. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

102. SAUCE AUX HUITRES (OYSTER SAUCE). 
9 oysters. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | 1 yolk of egg. | 1 teaspoonful lemon -juice. 

Remove the beards from the oysters ; put them into a small saucepan, with 
their liquor ; bring them slowly to boiling-point (they must on no account be allowed 
to boil). Take up the oysters ; cut each in quarters. Heat the Bechamel sauce, 
add to it the oyster liquor, reduce well, strain, and return it to the saucepan ; stir 
in the yolk of the egg, bind, and then add the oysters and lemon-juice. Stir till hot, 
but it must not boil. Season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. In season from September 
to April. 

103. SAUCE HOMARD (LOBSTER SAUCE). 

\ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). I a httle lobster spawn or coral. 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped lobster. I pinch of cayenne. 

Warm up the sauce, add to it the finely chopped lobster, some pounded lobster 
spawn or coral, and a pinch of cayenne. Heat up and serve. 
Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



SAUCES 



19 



f pint of fish atock. 
salt. 



104. SAUCE INDIENNE. 

1 oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. | 1 tablespoonful of curry- 

^ onion. 1 tomato. | powder. 

Chop the onion, fry it a Hght brown in the butter ; mix the flour and curry -powder 
together, stir into the butter, and fry for a few minutes ; add the fish stock and the 
tomato, shced ; bring to the boil, stirring all the time ; cook for fifteen minutes, 
season, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1^ ozs. flour. 



105. SAUCE JOINVILLE. 

f pint white stock. lemon-juice. 

1 gill fish stock. lobster coral. 



2 yolks of eggs. 
f-alt and cayenne. 



Melt half the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and cook for a few minutes, 
but do not let the flour brown ; dilute with the white and fish stocks ; stir until it 
boils, and then let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Pound the lobster coral in a mortar 
with the remainder of the butter, rub through a sieve, and add it to the sauce ; 
whisk in the yolks of eggs, one at a time ; bind over the fire, but do not let it boil. 
Season with salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon-juice 
strainer or sieve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 25 minutes. 



Pass through a 



106. LYONNAISE SAUCE. 



^ teaspoonful chopped shallot. 
IJ gills clear fish stock. 



1 teaspoonful Bovril. 
i oz. cornflour. 



1 glass sherry. I -i gill tomato puree. 
^ bay-leaf. | 6 white peppercorns. 

Put the wine, fish stock, bay-leaf, shallot, peppercorns, and Bovril into a sauce- 
pan, and simmer for ten minutes. Mix the cornflour in a basin with the tomato 
puree, add the wine and other ingredients to this, return to the saucepan, and bring 
to the boil ; pass through a sieve or strainer, reheat, season to taste, and add a few 
drops of cochineal to make a good colour. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



107. SAUCE MATELOTE. 



^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

i gill claret. 
2 tomatoes. 



J onion. 



1 oz. butter, 
lemon-juice. 



^ carrot. 

^ gill fish stock. 

Peel the onion and carrot, cut them in slices, and fry in the butter a nice brown ; 
then add the wine and fish stock. Keduce to half the quantity ; stir in the brown 
Bauce, cut the tomatoes in slices, and add them to the sauce. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Strain through a sieve or tammy ; reheat ; season nicely with salt and 
pepper, and a few drops of lemon-juice. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. 

108. SAUCE MATELOTE BLANCHE (WHITE MATELOTE SAUCE). 



^ pint white sauce (No. 88). 
1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 
6 preserved mushrooms. 



mushroom-juice. 
3 yolks of eggs. 
^ gill cream. 



1 dozen oysters. 
h gill white wine, 
juice of ^ lemon. 

Beard and drain the oysters ; put their liquor into a saucepan with the wine, 
mushroom-juice, and the sauce ; stir over the fire until boiling ; simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then add the yolks of eggs, and the cream, and the anchovy ; stir over 
the fire to cook the eggs, but do not let the sauce boil, or it will curdle. Strain tiie 
sauce into another saucepan ; add to it the oysters and the mushrooms ; make hot, 
and serve with fish. 

Average cost 2s. 9d. Time required, 25 minutes. In season from September to 
April. 



20 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

109. SAUCE MAITRE D'HOTEL (PARSLEY OR FINE HERB SAUCE). 
\ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | \ lemon. | 1 teaspoonful parsley seasoning. 

Heat the sauce ; chop the parsley finely ; add to the sauce also the lemon-juice 
and seasoning. This sauce is not used exclusively for fish, but is also served wich 
meat dishes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

110. SAUCE MORNAY. 

\ pint melted butter sauce (No. 43). ^ gill fish stock. I | gill cream. 

IJ ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. 1 oz. butter. | pepper and salt. 

Heat up the sauce with the fish stock, and reduce ; stir in the cream, and add 
carefully the grated cheese ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne ; 
lastly, add the butter in small pieces, off the fire ; this must be done gradually, or 
the sauce will oil ; each piece of butter must melt before putting in the next. 
When this sauce is used for other things besides fish, the fish stock must be 
omitted. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

111. MUSTARD SAUCE, 
f oz. flour 



1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. 1 pepper. 
\ gill vinegar. 1 teaspoonful mustard. I salt. 



1 oz. butter. 

\ pint fish stock. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, dilute with the stock ; stir until it 
boils ; cook for ten minutes. Mix the mustard with the vinegar to a smooth paste ; 
stir this into the sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and the anchovy sauce. Served 
with boiled or fried herrings or mackerel. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

112. SAUCE NONPAREILLE. 

^ pint Hollandaise sauce (No. 101). i 2 truffles. I G preserved muslirooms. 

2 ozs. crayfish or lobster butter (No. 179). i 1 oz. lobster-meat. 1 1 hard-boiled white of egg. 

Warm the Hollandaise sauce, but do not let it boil ; chop finely the lobster- 
meat, truffles, white of egg, and mushrooms ; add these to the sauce ; stir over 
the fire until hot ; finish with the lobster or crayfish butter, adding it gradually. 
Serve with fish. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 25 minutes. 

113. SAUCE NORMANDE. 

1 oz. butter. I J pint white stock. | 1 gill fish stock. I 1 teaspoonful of parsley. 
1 oz. flour. ; J giU vinegar. ! seasoning. tarragon and chervil. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the vinegar to it, and reduce to half the quan- 
tity ; then stir in the flour, cook for a few minutes without browning, dilute -svith the 
stock, stir until boiling, simmer for ten minutes. Add the chopped herbs and 
seasoning. Keep hot until required. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

114. SAUCE AUX CEUFS DURS (EGG SAUCE). 
1 G?g- I i P^°t melted butter sauce (No. 43). | pepper and salt. 
Boil the egg for twelve minutes, place it in cold water, then remove the shell ; 
chop the egg finely. Heat the sauce, add the chopped egg, season to taste, and 
use as required. Usually served with boiled fish, salt cod, fresh haddock, etc. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



SAUCES 21 

115. SAUCE PORTUGAISE. 

3 shallots. I i gill fish stock. I cayenne pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. | pint tomato sauce (No. 77). ' salt. 

Melt 1 oz. of the butter in a ste\\-}3an : chop the shallots finely, and fry lightly 
in the butter ; moisten with the fish stock, boil for five minutes, then add the tomato 
Bauce ; season Anth salt and cayenne ; lastly, add the remaining butter by degrees. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. 

116. SAUCE PAUVRE HOMME (POOR MAN'S SAUCE). 



1 oz. butter. 
I oz. flour. 



1 onion. 
1 tomato. 



1 teaspoonful anchovy ^ pint stock 



essence. 



chopped parsley. 



Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and stir over the fire for a few 
minutes ; moisten with, the stock, and allow it to come to the boil. Then put in the 
sliced onion and tomato ; place on a slow fire to simmer for twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. Strain, and add. lastly, the chopped parsley and anchovy essence. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

117. SAUCE RUSSE (RUSSIAN SAUCE). 

2 shallots. i oz. butter. | J bay-leaf. J pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

1 oz. lean ham. ^ gill white -i\ine. cayenne. 1 dessertspoonful horseradish. 

Chop the ham and shallots finely, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the 
(hopped ingredients, and fry a little ; then add the ^^^ne and bay-leaf, boil, and 
/educe to half the quantity. Add to this the veloute sauce, and simmer for ten 
minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine strainer or sieve, return to the saucepan, 
season A\dth cayenne, add the grated horseradish, and finish with the butter, added 
by degrees. This sauce can be served with fillet of beef as well as fish. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 25 minutes. 

118. SAUCE A LA VICTORIA. 

i pint Alleraande sauce (No. 1). | gill fish stock. i 6 mushrooms, 

i oz. lobster butter (No. 179). ^ glass white wine. j salt and pepper. 

Heat the Allemande sauce with the fish stock, reduce well, peel the mushrooms, 
wash them, and chop finely ; add to the sauce Avith the \vine, simmer for ten 
minutes, season, and add by degrees the lobster butter. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 

119. SAUCE AU VIN BLANC (WHITE WINE SAUCE). 

1 oz. butter. ^ pint white stock, i ^ gill fish stock. ^ lemon. 

f oz. flour. I gill white wine. | 2 yolks of eggs. salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, stir in the stock and fish liquor and wine ; boil 
and cook for twenty minutes. Take off the fire and cool a minute, then add the 
yolks of eggs ; return to the fire and cook the eggs, but on no account allow the 
Bauce to boil, or it will curdle. Add the juice of the lemon, season, and strain. 
Generally served with fish, but when otherwise omit the fish stock. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



120. SAUCE VENITIENNE. 

^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). 

2 chopped shallots. 



1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon, salt, 

chervil, and parsley. pepper, 

i gill tarragon vinegar. cayenne. 

Put the chopped shallots into a small stewpan, add the vinegar, and boil until 
reduced to half ; then strain into the Bechamel sauce, which should be heated 
ready in another saucepan ; mix in by degrees the lobster butter ; lastly, add the 
chopped herbs and seasoning. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



22 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



J bunch watercress. 
1 oz. butter. 



121. SAUCE XAVIER. 

a few sprigs of parsley. seasoning. 

I pint white fish sauce (No. 88). lemon-juice. 

Cook the cress and parsley in water until the leaves are tender ; strain and 
cool. Put the butter and the herbs in a mortar and pound ; then rub through a fine 
sieve. Heat the sauce ; add to it the green puree, and cook for five minutes. Season 
with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice, and use as required. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



COLD SAUCES 

122. SAUCE CAMBRIDGE. 

3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 2 anchovies. l 1 teaspoonful capers. i 1 teaspoonful chopped 

1 teaspooaful made mustard. ^ gill salad oil. | 1 tablespoonful vinegar. | parsley. 

Pound the eggs, capers, and filleted anchovies in a mortar ; add the oil, vinegar, 
mustard, and a little cayenne pepper. Rub this through a hair sieve, put into a 
basin, and add more oil and vinegar, if necessary, to make a good consistency ; 
keep this sauce on the ice until required, then add the chopped parsley. Serve with 
cold meat. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. 

123. SAUCE CAZANOVA. 
1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). i J shallot. | 2 hard-boiled eggs. [ 2 truffles. 

Shred the truffles, and chop the shallot fimely ; rub the yolks of the hard-boiled 
eggs through a sieve, and shred the whites ; mix all these ingredients into the mayon- 
naise. Serve \vith any kind of salad or fish. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

124. CHAUDFROID SAUCE BLANCHE (WHITE CHAUDFROID SAUCE). 

J pint supreme sauce j \ oz. gelatine. 1 gill thick cream. 

(No. 74). I I pint aspic jelly (No. 251). salt. 

Melt the gelatine with the aspic jelly. Put the supreme sauce into a stewpan, 
and stir in by degrees the aspic and gelatine ; mix thoroughly, then strain through 
a fine strainer or a hair sieve. Stir in the cream, and use as directed. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 



125. CHAUDFROID SAUCE BLONDE (FAWN CHAUDFROID SAUCE). 

1 tablespoonful white i J gill cream, 
wine. seasoning. 



I gill veloute sauce (No. 82). , 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 251). 
i gill brown sauce (No. 6). | ^ oz. gelatine. 



Melt the gelatine in the aspic jelly. Mix the two sauces together in another 
saucepan with the wine, and, when hot, stir in the aspic and gelatine. Strain the 
sauce, and when cooling mix in the \ gill of cream. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 

126. CHAUDFROID SAUCE BRUNE (BROWN CHAUDFROID SAUCE). 

\ pint brown sauce (No. 6). I \^ gills aspic jelly (No. 251). 
I oz. gelatine. I 1 tablespoonful sherry. 

Melt the gelatine in the aspic jelly, add the wine to it, and stir these into the 
brown sauce. Let it simmer for five minutes, then strain, and add seasoning if 
required. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 



SAUCES 23 

127. GREEN CHAUDFROID SAUCE. 

i pint supreme sauce (No. 74). J oz. gelatine. 1 gill aspic jelly. 

1 tablespoonful cooked spinach. | gill cream. | spinach greening. 

Rub the spinach through a sieve ; add to it the | pint supreme sauce. Melt the 
gelatine in the aspic jelly, and stir into the spinach mixture. Heat this over the 
fire : add the cream, and enough spinach greening to make a nice green. 

Average cost, Is. Time required. 30 minutes. 

128. PINK CHAUDFROID SAUCE, 
i pint veloute sauce (No. 82). | | gill cream. | 1 gill aspic jelly. \ J oz. gelatine. | paprika pepper 

Melt the gelatine in the aspic jelly. Warm up the veloute sauce, stir into it 
the aspic and cream. Mix thoroughly, and add enough paprika pepper to make a 
delicate pink shade. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. 



1 lemon. 
1 orange. 
h gill port w-ine. 



129. CUMBERLAND SAUCE. 

i gill water. 



2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. cayenne. 

i tcaspoonful made mustard. salt. 

Peel the orange and lemon very thinly, without taking off any of the white pith ; 
cut this peel into very fine shreds, cook in the i gill of water for five minutes, strain, 
put back into the saucepan ; add the port wine, red-currant jelly, mustard, cayenne, 
salt, the juice of the orange and lemon, and the vinegar. Boil tliis for a few minutes ; 
allow it to get cold, and serve with any kind of game. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 

130. CUCUMBER SAUCE, COLD. 

1 gill white sauce (No. 82). i salt. i ^ cucumber. 

^ gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). I J gill cream. | spinach greening. 

Peel the cucumber, cut into pieces, and boil in water until tender ; take it up, drain 
well, taking care to press out all the water ; then rub through a hair sieve. Put the 
puree into a saucepan with the white sauce, and boil until thick ; turn into a basin 
to cool. Stir in the mayonnaise, cream, seasoning, and a few drops of spinach 
greening, if necessary. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 40 minutes. In season from April to 
September. 

131. SAUCE CHANTILLY. 

1 tablespoonful grated horseradish. I 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
1 gill stewed apple. I 2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Mix the horseradish with the mayonnaise sauce ; stir in the apple sauce, and» 
lastly, the cream ; season to taste, and serve cold. 
Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

132. SAUCE EPICURIENNE. 

1 cucumber. a little anchovy essence. 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly. 

1 gill mayormaise sauce (No. 134). j 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. salt. 

i gill cream. I pepper. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped gherkins. 

Peel the cucumber, cut it in quarters and take out the seeds, divide into small 
pieces, put into a saucepan, cover with sufficient water to cook them, add some salt, 
and boil until tender ; strain, and rub through a hair sieve. As soon as this puree 
is cold, stir it into the mayonnaise sauce ; add the aspic jelly, anchovy essence, and 
cream ; add the chopped gherkins, pepper, and salt. Serve with asparagus or arti- 
chokes. 

Average cost, is. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. In season from April to 
September. 



24 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

133. SAUCE GLOUCESTER. 

1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). I cayenne. I \ teaspoonful tarragon. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. | 1 teaspoonful ChiU vinegar. | a little French mustard. 

Whip the cream, and stir it into the mayonnaise sauce ; add the vinegar, chopped 
tarragon, mustard, and a little cayenne. Mix well together, and serve with salads. 
Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

134. SAUCE MAYONNAISE. 

2 yolks of eggs. | 2 gills salad oil. I 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar. | salt. | pepper. 

Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, add to them some salt and pepper ; stir the yolks 
with a wooden spoon, dropping in the oil, a drop at a time at first, and then quicker, 
stirring it very quickly all the time. When the sauce is the consistency of thick 
cream, add the vinegar and a little mustard, if hked. A tablespoonful of cream is 
a great improvement. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes, 

135. SAUCE MAYONNAISE DE TOMATES (MAYONNAISE WITH 

TOMATOES). 
^ pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). | 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Make the tomato sauce, and allow it to get quite cold ; then mix it into the 
mayonnaise sauce. Season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



1 gill cooked spinach. 

J gill cream. 

1 anchovy, rolled. 



136. SAUCE MOUSSELINE. 

1 tablespoonful white sauce (No. 82). I 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
1 tablespoonful herbs (tarragon, cher- | teaspoonful made mustard, 

vil, and parsley). I 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs. 

Pick the herbs from their stalks, and put into a saucepan of boiling water ; let 
them remain there a few minutes, then take them up, drain well, put into a mortar 
w ith the spinach, anchovy fillets, and yolks of eggs ; pound well, and rub through a 
sieve. Put the mixture into a basin, stir in the white sauce, mayonnaise, cream, 
mustard, and seasoning. The sauce is then ready for use. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

137. SAUCE PRINCE DE GALLES (PRINCE OF WALES SAUCE). 

1 dessertspoonful capers. 
1 dessertspoonful chopped 

tarragon, parsley, and 

chervil. 

Wash and bone the anchovies ; parboil the herbs, and drain them well ; shell 
the eggs, take out the yolks ; put these ingredients into a mortar ; pound them well ; 
add the capers, mustard, and seasoning ; mix thoroughly, then work in the oil care- 
fully, and the vinegar. Rub through a hair sieve, and serve with grilled or fried 
fish or meats a la Tartare. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. 

138. SAUCE RAIFORT FROIDE (COLD HORSERADISH SAUCE). 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish, i 1 gill cream. a pinch of sugar. 

J teaspoonful made mustard. | 1 tablespoonful vinegar. salt and cayenne. 

Mix the horseradish with the sugar, salt, cayenne pepper, mustard, and vinegar. 
Whip the cream a little, and stir it into the horseradish by degrees. Whisk slightly, 
and serve. Use with cold roast beef. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 10 minutes. 



2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 


2 anchovies. 


2 raw yolks. 


salt. 


^ gill tarragon vinegar. 


cayenne. 


1^ gills salad oil. 


French mustard 



SA UCES 25 

139. SAUCE RAVIGOTE FROIDE (COLD RAVIGOTE SAUCE). 



1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 

134). 
1 tablespoonful <'hopped parsley. 



1 tablespoonful cream. 1 tablespoonful chives, 

tarragon, and chervil. 



1 shallot. 

I oz. butter. spinach greening. 

Chop the shallot, and fry in the butter ; when a golden colour, strain ofif the butter, 
and stir the shallot into the mayonnaise, with the cream and chopped herbs. Season 
to taste Avith salt and pepper. Add a few drops of spinach greening, if necessary. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

140. SAUCE REMOULADE. 

1 yolk of egg. I 1 teaspoonful parsley, tarragon, and chervil. 1 teaspoonful made mustard. 

1 gill salad oil. ' 4 '.easpoonfuls tarragon vinegar. salt and pepper. 

Make a sauce with the yolk of egg and oil in the same way as for mayonnaise 
sauce (Xo. 134). Put the parsley, tarragon, and chervil leaves in a saucepan ; cover 
them Anth cold water ; set them on the fire, and bring to the boil ; drain and chop 
them finely ; stir these into the sauce, also the mustard, pepper, and salt. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

141. SAUCE SUEDOISE (SWEDISH SAUCE). 

1 gill mayonnaise sauce (Xo. 134). 1 tablespoonful cream. 

1 tablespoonful grated horseradish. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

Stir the grated horseradish and mustard into the mayonnaise, add the cream, 
and season to taste. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

142. A SALAD DRESSING. 

2 eggs. I ^ teaspoonful mustard. I 1 tablespoonful vinegar. [ pepper. 

salt. ! 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. J teaspoonful castor sugar. ' 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, then put into cold water. When they are quite 
cold, shell them, cut the eggs in halves, take out the yolks, put them into a basin, 
and mash them with a wooden spoon ; add the oil, and mix thoroughly ; then stir 
in the vinegar, cream, sugar, mustard, pepper, and salt. Stir all well together, and use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

143. SAUCE TARTARE. 

I pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 1 tablespoonful parsley. 

1 tablespoonful capers or gherkins. J teaspoonful tarragon and chervil. 

Make the mayonnaise sauce, chop the capers or gherkins finely, also the parsley, 
tarragon, and chervil ; stir these ingredients into the sauce, season to taste, and serve. 
Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

144. SAUCE TYROLIENNE. 

i pint tomato sauce (No. 77). i 1 gill whipped cream. 

I pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). | paprika pspper. 

Put the tomato sauce into a ste^^•pan, and boil until well reduced. When a good 
consistency, and \\hile still hot, stir in the mayonnaise sauce. Let this get cold, 
then season with salt and paprika pepper ; lastly, mix in the whipped cream. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

145. SAUCE VALENTINE. 

1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). | 1 tablespoonful grated horse- 1 J teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. | radish. | 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Mix the mayonnaise and cream together, add the rest of the ingredients, stir well, 
season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 



26 TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

146. SAUCE VINAIGRETTE. 



\ gill tarragoQ vinegar. 
i gill olive oil. 



\ teaspoonful made mustard. i | teaspoonful chopped shallots. 
J teaspoonful chopped parsley. | 1 teaspoonful chopped capers. 



Put the vinegar into a basin, add the mustard and a httle salt, stir in the oil 
and the chopped ingredients. Mix well together, and serve. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

SWEET SAUCES 

147. SAUCE AUX AMANDES (ALMOND SAUCE;. 
1 oz. sweet almonds. 



2 ozB. castor sugar. 



6 bitter almonds. 

a little orange-flower water. 



1 giU cream. 

2 raw yolks of eggs. 



Blanch the almonds, remove the skins, put them into a mortar \vith the sugar 
and orange-flower water, pound them to a pulp. Put this mixture into a saucepan, 
add the cream and yolks of eggs, whisk over a very slow fire until frothy. The 
sauce must on no account be allowed to boil. Serve with steamed puddings. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 10 minutes. 

148. SAUCE AUX ABRICOTS (APRICOT SAUCE). 

2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam. | 1 oz. castor sugar. | juice | lemon. | | pint water. | J oz. cornflour. 

Mix the cornflour in a basin to a smooth paste with a little water. Put the jam, 
sugar, and water into a saucepan, and boil for ten minutes ; then add the cornflour 
boil for a few minutes longer ; lastly, add the lemon- juice, strain, and use. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

149. BRANDY SAUCE. 
1 glass of brandy. | \ pint water. | J oz. cornflour. | 1 oz. castor sugar. 
Mix the water and cornflour together ; put this into a saucepan with the sugar, 
and boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Add the brandy, and the sauce is 
ready for use. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

150. CORNFLOUR SAUCE. 

J oz. cornflour. | ^ pint milk. | | oz. butter. | sugar to taste. | lemon -rind or vanilla. 

Mix the cornflour with a little milk in a basin. Boil the milk, sugar, butter, 
and lemon-rind together ; when boiling, pour it on to the cornflour ; return to the 
saucepan, and boil for ten minutes. If lemon-rind is not hked for flavouring, use 
vanilla or almond essence. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

151. CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

8 ozs. grated chocolate. | 1 oz. icing sugar. ) 1^ gills water. | a few drops of vanilla. 
Put the chocolate and sugar into a saucepan ; add the water, and stir until it 
boils ; flavour with vanilla, and serve. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



vanilla essence. 



152. CARAMEL SAUCE. 

2 ozs. loaf sugar. I ^ oz. castor sugar. 

^ giU water. I | oz. cornflour. \ pint milk. 

Put the loaf sugar and water into a saucepan, and let it boil until a light brown 
colour ; pour in the milk, and let it simmer for five minutes ; add the | oz. sugar and the 
vanilla essence. Mix the cornflour with enough milk to make a smooth paste ; add this 
to the sauce. Bring to the boil, simmer a few minutes, strain, and use as required. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



SAUCES 27 

153. COFFEE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoon fuls of ground | ^ pint boiling wat«r. I 2 ozs. sugar. 

coffee. I I gill sherry or brandy. | ^ oz. cornflour. 

Pour the boiling water over the coffee, stir it, then let it stand for a few minutes. 
(Strain into a saucepan ; add the sugar. Mix the cornflour with a little water ; stir 
into the coffee ; bring to the boil, stirring all the time ; add the sherry or brandy ; 
«immer for a feAv minutes. Strain and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

154. CLARET SAUCE. 

1 gill claret. | 1 oz. loaf sugar. | J oz. cornflour. | 1 slice of lemon. 

Put the claret, lemon, and sugar into a saucepan ; boil up. Mix the cornflour 
with a tablespoonful of water, add it to the other ingredients, stir it until it comes 
to the boil ; simmer for five minutes. Strain and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

155. CHAUDFROID SAUCE, SWEET. 

I pint vanilla sauce (No. 165). | ^ oz. gelatine. 1 ^ gill cream. 

Heat the vanilla sauce ; soak the gelatine in cold water for ten minutes, then 
melt it over the fire in a small saucepan ; add this to the sauce ; stir in the cream ; 
make it hot, but do not boil. Strain before using. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

156. CUSTARD SAUCE. 
2 whole eggs and 1 yolk. | 3 gills milk. | 1 oz. castor sugar. | rind of 1 lemon. 

Whip the eggs in a basin. Put the milk, sugar, and lemon-rind into a saucepan ; 
bring to the boil ; pour this on to the eggs, whisking them all the time. Strain into 
the saucepan ; stir over the fire until the sauce thickens ; it must not boil, or the 
eggs \^all curdle. Vanilla or sherry may be used for flavouring if liked, instead of lemon. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

157. CHERRY SAUCE. 

J lb. cherries. ^ lemon. ^ pint water, J gill port 

I oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. 1 oz. sugar. wine. 

Put the cherries, sugar, and water into a saucepan ; cook over the fire until the 
cherries are tender, then rub through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
stir in the flour, add the cherry puree and lemon- juice ; stir this over the fire until 
it boils, then pour in the port wine, heat thoroughly, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from June to August. 

158. CHAUDEAU SAUCE. 
1 gill white wine. | IJ ozs. sugar. | 3 yolks of eggs. | 1 white of egg. | J lemon. 
Put the eggs, sugar, and lemon- juice into a small saucepan ; place this in a larger 
saucepan containing boiling water. Place over the fire, whisk for a few minutes, 
add the wine, and whisk again until it thickens. Take off the fire, and serve imme- 
diately. This sauce must not be allowed to boil. 
Average cost, lOd. Time required, 10 minutes. 

159. SAUCE DIPLOMATE, SWEET. 

i lb. loaf Bugnr. | ^ pint water. \ | lemon. | 1 wineglassful claret. | § oz. oomflour. 

Boil the sugar and water for five or ten minutes ; mix the cornflour with a little 
water, and thicken the syrup with it. After it has boiled well, stir in the claret and 
the juice oi half a lemon. It is then ready for use. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



28 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

160. FRUIT SAUCE. 



^ gill cream. I 1 oz. sugar. 
1 gill water. | ^ oz. cornflout 



4 tablespoonfuls stewed I 4 tablespoonfuls apricot jam. 
apples. I i gill sherry or rum. 

Boil the apple, apricot jam, water, and sugar together for ten or fifteen minutes 
Strain into another saucepan ; mix the cornflour with a little water, stir into the 
sauce, and bring to the boil ; stir in the sherry or rum and the cream. Heat 
thoroughly, and use. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 

161. GERMAN SAUCE. 
1 gill sherry or marsala. [ 3 yolks of eggs. | 2 ozs. castor sugar. | 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice. 
Put the wine into a small saucepan mth the sugar and lemon- juice ; let this 
dissolve, then add the well-beaten yolks of eggs ; whisk this over the fire until thick 
and frothy. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

162. HARD SAUCE. 

4 ozs. fresh butter. | 4 ozs. castor sugar. | 1 glass brandy. | 1 white of egg. 

Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon until quite creamy 
and light. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and add to the butter and sugar. 
Stir in the brandy, and use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 5 minutes. 

163. JAM SAUCE. 

2 tablespoonfuls raspberry ' 2 ozs. castor sugar, j \ glass sherry. 

or strawberry jam. i juice of ^ lemon. a few drops cochineal. 

Put all the above ingredients in a stewpan ; boil for ten or fifteen minutes, colour 
with cochineal, strain, and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

164. LEMON SAUCE. 

2 yolks of eggs. | pint milk. j rind and juice of 

1 oz. castor sugar. J oz. cornflour. | J lemon. 

Boil the milk with the rind of the lemon and the sugar, beat the yolks of the 
eggs, mix the cornflour with them, stir this into the boiling milk, whisk well until 
the sauce is the proper consistency, add the lemon-juice, strain, and serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

165. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE, SWEET. 
1 oz. butter. | | oz. flour. | h pint milk. | sugar to taste. | flavouring. 
Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir until it boils ; let it 
simmer for ten minutes, mix in the sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla 
or lemon- juice. 

Average cost, 2-|d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

166. MARMALADE SAUCE. 

1 tablespoonful marma- | \ oz. cornflour. j rind and juice of 1 lemon, 

lade. 1 oz. castor sugar, j ^ pint water. 

Mix the cornflour mth a little water. Put the ^ pint of water on to boil, with 
the rind of the lemon and sugar ; strain on to the cornflour, boil for five minutes, 
then stir in the marmalade and lemon- juice. When well mixed, it is ready. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes 



SAUCES 29 

167. MARASCHINO SAUCE. 

1 oz. butter. J pint milk. a few finely chopped I I teaspoonful chopped lemon -rind. 

I oz. flour. I oz. sugar. | pistachio-nuts. | 1 tablespoonful maraschino. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in tlie flour, and add the milk ; bring to the 
boil, stirring all the time ; mix in the sugar, and simmer for ten minutes ; then add 
the pistachio-nuts, lemon-peel, and maraschino. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

168. MOUSSELINE SAUCE, SWEET. 

1 whole egg and 2 yolks of eggs. | ^ gill cream. \ 1 oz. sugar. | 1 glass of Madeira. 

Put the eggs, sugar, and cream into a small saucepan ; place in a larger sauce- 
pan, containing boiling water, and whisk until creamy, but do not let it boil ; 
add the wine, whisk again for a minute, and then serve. 

Average cost, 1 Id. Time required, 10 minutes. 

169. PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

^ oz. cornflour. | 1 oz. castor sugar. | ^ pint pineapple syrup. | J gill sherry. 

Mix the cornflour with a httle of the pineapple syrup. Put the rest on to boil 
with the sugar. When boiling, stir in the cornflour ; boil for ten minutes, add the 
wine and a little lemon-juice, if liked. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



^ lemon. I 1 oz. butter. j ^ gill brandy. I gill sherry, 

1 orange. ! ^ oz. flour. t ^ gill rum. 



170. PUNCH SAUCE. 

3 ozs. sugar. 
1 gill water. 

Peel the rind of the orange and lemon very thinly, put into a saucepan with the 
sugar and water ; bring to the boil, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Melt the butter 
in another saucepan, stir in the flour, add the water and sugar, with the peel strained 
out ; stir this until it boils, then add the brandy, rum, sherry, the juice of the orange, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Let this get very hot, but not boiling. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. 

171. RUM SAUCE. 
4 ozs. loaf sugar. | J gill rum. | 1 gill water. | rind of 1 lemon. 
Rub the lemon on the sugar, taking care to have only the zest of the lemon (that 
is, the yellow part) ; put the sugar thus prepared into a saucepan with the water, 
boil for five minutes, then add the rum. Boil again, and serve. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

172. RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

1 gill raspberries. | ^ gill red currants. | 1 oz. sugar. | ^ oz. cornflour. | 2 gills water. 

Rub the raspberries and currants through a fine sieve, put this pulp into a 
saucepan v/ith the sugar and water, boil together for ten minutes ; mix the corn- 
flour with a little water, and stir it into the sauce ; boil again for five minutes. When 
raspberries are not in season jam may be used. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season in July and August. 

173. SABAYON SAUCE. 

1 oz. castor sugar. | 3 yolks of eggs. \ ^ gill cream. | J gill Madeira wine. 

Put the sugar, yolks of eggs, and cream into a small saucepan ; place this in a 
larger saucepan, containing boiling water, over the fire ; whisk it until frothy, then 
udd the wine ; continue wliisking until it begins to thicken ; it is then ready. 

Average cost, lid. Time required, 10 minutes. 



CHAPTER II 

FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. 

Flavouring butters are used in cookery for many purposes — amongst others, in 
the construction of hors d'ceuvres and savouries, to serve with, grilled fish and meat, 
in the making of sandmches, and for giving the finishing touch to sauces. In the 
latter case the butter is added just before serving ; it gives melloAvness to the sauce, 
and also imparts to it the special flavour of the ingredient which has been employed 
in the making of the butter. 

The principal recipes for these flavouring butters are here given. 

FLAVOURING BUTTERS 

174. BEURRE D'ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY BUTTER). 
2 OZ8. butter, j 4 Gorgona anchovies, or juice of i lemon. | 1 oz. anchovy paste. 
Wash the anchovies, scrape them, take out the bones and pound in a mortar 
with the butter, add the juice of the lemon, and rub the mixture through a sieve. 
Use as required. If the anchovy paste is used, work it into the butter ; add lemon- 
juice, and use. 

175. BEURRE A LA MADRAS (CHUTNEY BUTTER). 

3 0Z8. butter. | 2 ozs. chutney. | lemon -juice. | cayenne. | salt. 
Pound the chutney A^dth the butter, add a few drops of lemon-juice, work in a 
attle salt and cayenne, rub through a sieve, and use as required. 

176. BEURRE A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED BUTTER). 

2 ozs. butter. I ^ ealtspoonful black I ^ teaspoonful curry-powder. 

^ teaspoonful paprika. i pepper. i a pinch of cayenne. 

Mix the peppers and curry-powder into the butter. Spread on a plate, and put 
on ice. Use for grilled meats. 

177. BEURRE DE RAIFORT (HORSERADISH BUTTER). 

^ horseradish. | 4 ozs. butter. | juice of ^ lemon. | pepper and salt. 

Wash and scrape the horseradish, grate it finely, work it into the butter, season 
with salt and pepper, add the lemon-juice, and rub through a fine sieve. 

178. BEURRE AU JAMBON (HAM BUTTER). 
2 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. lean cooked ham. | 1 tablespoonful cream. | cayenne. 
Mince the ham, put it into a mortar with the butter, pound well, add the cream 
and a pinch of cayenne, rub through a sieve. Use as required. 

179. BEURRE DE HOMARD (LOBSTER BUTTER). 

1 lobster shell. | coral and spawn. | equal weight of butter. | cayenne. 
Pound the shell, coral, and spawn of the lobster in a mortar with an equal quan- 
tity of butter, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. 

30 



1 oz. of parsley. 

2 ozs. spinach. 
2 anchovies. 



i oz. tarragon and 

cher\il. 
4 ozs. butter. 



J teaspoonful papers, 
salt. 



FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. 31 

180. BEURRE MAITRE D'HOTEL (PARSLEY BUTTER). 

1 oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. lemon-juice. | pepper. | salt. 

Chop the parsley very finely, work it into the butter, add a squeeze of lemon - 
juice, pepper, and salt to taste. 

181. BEURRE MONTPELLIER (MONTPELUER BUTTER). 

^ oz. bumet and chives. 

6 hard-boiled yolks. 

2 gherkins. cayenne. 

Blanch the parsley, tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and spinach ; drain well ; 
pound in a mortar with the hard-boiled yolks, the anchovies — which must be first 
freed from bones and chopped — the capers, and gherkins ; pound well, then add the 
butter ; season, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. 

182. BEURRE AU PAPRIKA (PAPRIKA BUTTER). 

2 ozs. butter. | 1 small teaspoonful paprika. | lemon-juice. 

Work the paprika into the butter on a plate ; add a few drops of lemon-juice ; 
put on ice until required. 

183. BEURRE RAVIGOTE (GREEN HERB BUTTER). 
1 oz. parsley. 3 ozs. tarragon, chervil, 3 shallots. I pepper. 



2 ozs. spinach. 



4 ozs. butter. salt. 



and chives. 

Wash the parsley, spinach, tarragon, chives, and chervil ; blanch them ; drain 
and pound in a mortar. Chop the shallots, and fry them in a little butter a hght 
broMii ; put them in the mortar with the herbs ; work in the butter, season to taste, 
and rub through a fine sieve. 

184. BEURRE DE RUISSEAU (WATERCRESS BUTTER). 

2 ozs. butter. | 1 bunch watercress. | salt. | pepper. 

Wash and pick the watercress, chop the leaves finely, put them in a mortar with 
the butter, and pound Avell together ; season with pepper and salt, and serve. 

185. BEURRE VENITIENNE (VENETIAN BUTTER). 
2 shallots. I 2 ozs. spinach-leaves. | 2 anchovies. | J oz. tarragon and chervil. 

Chop the shallots, and fry them in a little butter ; blanch the spinach, tarragon, 
and chervil ; bone the anchovies, and cut them up small ; drain the herbs ; put 
them in a mortar with the shallots and anchovies, and pound well, then rub through 
a fine sieve. Put on ice until ready to use. 

186. BEURRE DE CREVETTES (SHRIMP BUTTER). 
4 ozs. shrimps. | 4 ozs. butter. 

Pound the unpicked shrimps in a mortar ^^dth the butter ; rub through a fine 
sieve, taking care not to allow any of the shell to pass through ; place in the cool until 
required. Crayfish and praAvn butters are prepared in the same way. 

187. BEURRE ESTRAGON (TARRAGON BUTTER). 
4 ozs. tarragon -leaves. i 4 ozs. butter. ! lemon- juice. | salt. | pepper. 
Blanch the tarragon-leaves, drain well, press out all moisture. Put these into a 
mortar, add the butter, pound well together, and rub through a fine sieve ; mix 
in a few drops of lemon-juice, and add seasoning to taste. 

PT. I. 3 



32 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

188. BEURRE DE MOUTARDE (MUSTARD BUTTER). 
2 ozs. butter. | 1 teaspoonful of mustard. | lemon-juice. | cayenne. | salt. 
Work the mustard into the butter until thoroughly mixed ; add a few drops of 
lemon- juice and seasoning. 

189. BEURRE A LA PORTUGAISE (PORTUGUESE BUTTER). 

2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. | 1 gill tomato sauce. | 4 ozs. butter. 

Reduce the tomato sauce by boiling until it is very thick ; rub the yolks through 
a wire sieve, and mix them with the sauce. Work this into the butter. 

190. BEURRE ECHALOTE (SHALLOT BUTTER). 

4 ozs. shallots. | 4 ozs. butter. | seasoning. 

Peel the shallots, blanch them quickly, drain and press out all the moisture in 
a oloth. Put the shallots into a mortar with the butter, pound well together, and 
rub through a fine sieve ; season, and put on ice until required. 

191. BEURRE NOIR (BLACK BUTTER). 

2 ozs. butter. | 1 teaspoonful parsley. | squeeze of lemon. | salt. | pepper. 
Put the butter into a frying-pan, and cook it over the fire until it acquires a nut- 
brown colour. Take it off the fire, add the chopped parsley, a few drops of lemon- 
juice, and seasoning. Use at once 

192. HAZEL-NUT BUTTER. 

4 ozs. butter. | 4 ozs. shelled hazel-nuts. 

Put the nuts for a few minutes into a cool oven, in order to cook the skins, and 
so make it possible to remove them Put the nuts in a mortar, pound them, and add 
the butter ; mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. When pounding the nuts, a 
httle water should be added, in order to prevent oiling. 

USEFUL HINTS FOR THE KITCHEN 

193. FLOUR. 

Flour should always be passed through a wire sieve before using ; by doing this, 
lumps are removed, and the flour is made lighter by causing the air to pass through it. 

194. BOUQUETS GARNIS (FAGGOTS). 

These consist of httle bunches of savoury herbs, used for flavouring, consisting 
of generally — 

1 sprig of parsley. | 1 sprig of thyme. | 1 sprig of marjoram. | 1 bay-leaf. 
The sprigs are put together, and the bay-leaf tied round them, making a neat bunch. 

195. FRIED PARSLEY. 

Pick, wash, and drain some parsley sprigs ; put them into a frying-basket, and 
fry in hot tat ; shake the basket while frying ; fry until crisp. Drain well. Fried 
parsley is generally used to garnish fried dishes, such as fried fish, rissoles, etc. The 
parsley should be crisp and green. 

196. SALPICON. 

A salpicon is a mixture of cooked ingredients — either chicken, game, sweetbread, 
veal, or foie-gras, minced or cut in dice, mixed with tongue, ham-truffles, or mush- 
rooms, and sufficient Bechamel or brown sauce to bind. Used for filling patties 
and other small entrees. 



FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. 33 

197. TO CLARIFY FAT. 

Cut up the fat — any kind of beef and mutton fat — take away any pieces of meat 
^hat may be adhering to it ; put the fat into an iron saucepan, and cover with cold 
water ; boil quickly until the water has evaporated ; continue to cook, stirring occa- 
sionally, until the pieces of fat have shrivelled up into little bro\vn bits. Strain 
through a wire strainer or cullender. Use for frying, 

198. TO CLARIFY DRIPPING. 

Put the dripping into a basin, pour over it boiling water ; let it get cold, then 
lift off the cake of fat which has formed on the top of the water ; the gravy that it 
contains will be found to have sunk to the bottom, and this can easily be removed 
with a knife. 

199. TO CLARIFY BUTTER. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan ; place the saucepan on a slow fire ; remove the 
Bcum as it rises to the surface ; when the butter is clear, strain it through 
muslin. 



FARCES (FORCEMEATS) 

200. FARCE DE MERLAN (WHITING FORCEMEAT). 

\ lb. whiting meat. 1 oz. flour. I 1 whole egg and 2 yolks. pepper. 

1 oz. butter. ^ gill fish stock (No. 316). | ^ g'll cream. salt. 

Remove the skin and bones from the whitings ; chop the meat, which must weigh 
half a pound ; melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour ; cook a Uttle 
without browning ; dilute mth the fish stock ; stir over the fire until thick. The 
mixture must leave the bottom and sides of the saucepan clean. Put the chopped 
fish into a mortar with the panada {i.e., the thick sauce), and pound well together. 
Add by degrees the eggs and seasoning. Rub this mixture through a wire sieve, 
return to the mortar, and work in the whipped cream carefully, or, if preferred, 
Bechamel sauce (No. 4) may be used instead of the cream. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 people. 
Seasonable at any time. 

201. FARCE DE VEAU (VEAL FORCEMEAT). 

^ lb. lean veal. [ 2 ozs. fat bacon. | 2 eggs. | seasoning. | 1 oz. breadcrumbs. 

Cut up the veal and bacon into small pieces ; put the meat and bacon into a 
mortar, and pound well together ; add the eggs one at a time ; season, mix well, and 
then rub through a wire sieve ; return to the mortar, and mix in the breadcrumbs ; 
work all well together ; if the mixture should be too stiff, add a Httle whipped cream 
or some well-reduced white sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at any time. 

202. FARCE DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN FORCEMEAT). 



\ lb. raw chicken meat. 

\ gill chicken stock (No. 314). 



legg. 
salt. 



pepper. 

a little cream (optional). 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 

Cup up the chicken meat, which must be free from skin and sinews. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil till thick ; let this 
mixture cool a little, then put it in a mortar with the chicken meat. Pound well, 
add the egg and seasoning, mix thoroughly ; rub through a wire sieve. If the cream 
is used, mix it into the forcemeat after it has been sieved. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at any time. 

3—2 



34 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

203. FARCE DE FAISAN (PHEASANT FORCEMEAT). 

i II pheasant meat. 3 ozs. lean veal, j 3 ozs. fat bacon, i salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls game sauce. 2 ozs. foie-gras. ! 2 eggs. 1 pepper. 

Free the pheasant from skin and bone ; put it in a mortar with the veal and bacon, 
cut small ; pound well, and add the game sauce, the foie-gras, and the eggs ; work 
all well together, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. If the 
farce is too stiff, add a little more sauce or cream. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable October to February. 



h lb. calf's liver. 
2 ozs. bacon. 



204. FARCE DE FOIE DE VEAU (LIVER FARCE). 

\ onion. 1 bunch savoury herbs. 

^ small carrot. salt and pepper. 

Mince the liver, cut up the bacon, chop the vegetables. Fry the bacon, then add 
the li\er and the vegetables ; fry all together ; add the herbs and seasoning. When 
sufficiently cooked, take out the herbs ; put the rest in a mortar, pound well, and 
then rub through a wire sieve. The farce is then ready for use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

205. FARCE DE MARRONS (CHESTNUT STUFFING). 
1^ lbs. chestnuts 



2 ozs. butter. 
1| pints white stock. J gill cream or milk. 



salt and j^epper. 
pinch of sugar. 

Slit the chestnuts, put them into the oven for about fifteen minutes, then remove 
the shell and inner skin ; put them in a saucepan with the stock, and cook until 
soft enough to sieve. After sieving, return to the saucepan ; mix in the cream or 
milk and butter ; season nicely Avith the pepper and salt and a very little sugar. 
Used for garnishing entrees and as stuffing for turkeys. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable October to February. 



4 ozs. breadcrumbs. 
4 ozs. suet (beef). 



206. HERB FARCE. 

rind l lemon, 
pepper. 



salt. 
2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoonful thyme and marjoram. 

Chop the suet finely ; mix with it the breadcrumbs, the chopped parsley and 
herbs, the grated rind of the lemon, pepper and salt. Beat the eggs, and add 
to the mixture ; if not sufficient to bind, add a little milk. Use for veal, turkey, 
poultry, etc. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



pepper. 

salt. 



207. SAGE AND ONION STUFFING. 

8 large onions. j 2 tablespoonfuls sage. 

2 ozs. butter. | 2 tablespoonfuls breadcmmbs. 

Peel the onions, cut them in pieces, put them into a saucepan, and cover with 
cold water ; boil until done, drain well, and chop finely ; mix them with the bread- 
crumbs and the chopped sage ; cut up the butter into small pieces, and mix with the 
stuffing. Season with pepper and salt. Used for stuffing geese, ducks, pork, etc. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



208. FARCE D'HUITRES (OYSTER FORCEMEAT). 



12 oysters. 4 ozs. breadcrumbs. I rind \ lemon. 

1 oz. butter. 



cayenne. 

salt. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. | 1 egg-yolk. 

Drain the oysters from their liquor, take off the beards, and cut the oysters into 
small dice ; mix with the breadcrumbs ; add the butter, broken up into small pieces, 
the grated rind of the lemon, a httle salt, a pinch of cayenne, and the chopped 
parsley. Mix these ingredients well together, and bind with the yolk of egg and 
some of the oyster liquor. The forcemeat is now ready, and may be used for stuffing 



FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. 35 

fowls or boiled turkeys, or made into balls, fried or poached, and used as a garnish 
for soups or made dishes. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable September to May. 

209. FARCE DE CHAMPIGNONS (MUSHROOM FORCEMEAT). 

J lb. mushrooms. i 3 ozs. breadcrumbs. | ^ lemon. l salt. 

1 oz. butter. | 1 teaspoonful parsley. | 2 yolks of eggs. I cayenne. 

Wash and peel the mushrooms, mince them finely. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the mushrooms, and cook ; add to them the breadcrumbs, the rind of the 
lemon, grated, the chopped parsley, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne ; mix well ; 
add the yolks of the eggs, and stir all together. Care must be taken to use the 
seasonings sparingly, so as not to destroy the flavour of the mushrooms. This 
forcemeat is served with roast fowls, or as stufiting for boiled fowls or turkeys. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 



210. SAUSAGE FARCE FOR TURKEYS, ETC. 

8 ozs. lean pork. 4 ozs. fat pork. 2 yolks of eggs, 

4 ozs. breadcrumbs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



liver of turkey. h teaspoonful sago. 

Mince the pork very finely by putting it twice through a mincing-machine ; mix 
with it the breadcrumbs and the chopped sage ; mince the liver of the turkey very 
finely, and add to the other ingredients ; season with pepper and salt, and bind 
with the two egg-yolks. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable in the winter months. 



211. FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR HARE, ETC. 

2 ozs. suet. I 1 tablespoonful parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

1 egg. I 2 ozs. breadcrumbs. 



pepper. 

salt. 



Chop the suet very finely, mix the breadcrumbs with it, also the finely chopped 
herbs ; season with pepper and salt. Beat the egg, and add to the ingredients. 
Divide this farce into equal-sized pieces, roll them in flour, shape into balls, put 
them into boiling water, and simmer for ten minutes ; take up and drain ; use as 
required. These balls are sometimes fried ; in that case, dip them in flour, then 
in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. 

GARNISHES 

Garnishes are used in the construction of dishes consisting of fish, meat, poultry, 
and game. Garnishes not only add to the flavour of the dish, but are also attractive 
to the eye, and thereby are made more pleasing to the palate. A few of the most 
important of those garnishes, with their preparation, are given here : 

212. A LA BAYARD (BAYARD GARNISH). 

1 truffle. I 2 artichoke bottoms. 2 ozs. ox-tongue. I croutons of fried bread. 

3 mushrooms. | ^ gill Madeira. I Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | foie-gras. 

Slice the truffle and mushrooms, cut the ox-tongue and artichoke bottoms into 
dice ; put these ingredients into a stewpan with the wine, reduce well, then add some 
well-reduced Espagnole sauce. Surround the dish with small fried croutons of 
bread, spread with a thin layer of puree of foie-gras. 

213. A LA BORDELAISE (BORDEAUX GARNISH). 

1 shallot. I ^ gill claret. | beef-marrow. | ^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | cayenne. 

Chop the shallot finely ; put it in a stewpan with the wine ; boil and reduce for 
five minutes ; add the sauce and a pinch of cayenne ; cook five minutes longer. 
Serve it, poured over steaks or fillets of beef. Parboil the marrow in slices, grill it, 
and place on the cooked meat when dished up. 



36 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

214. A LA BOURGUIGNONNE (BURGUNDY GARNISH). 

claret. \ fish stock. ] mushrooms. | button onions. | glaze. 
This is a fish garnish, the fish being cooked in claret, with fish stock, and the dish 
garnished with cooked mushroom heads and glazed button onions. 

215. A LA BEUFREMONT (BEAUFREMONT GARNISH). 

cooked macaroni. cream. croustades. 

tomato sauce (No. 77). butter. truffles. 

Cook the macaroni ; when tender, drain it and cut in ^-inch pieces ; melt a little 
butter in a stewpan ; put in the macaroni ; add some cream, enough to bind ; fill 
some croustades with this mixture ; shred or chop the truffles, and sprinkle on the 
top. Served with tomato sauce on the dish. 

216. A LA BIGNON (BIGNON GARNISH). 

potatoes. I sausage-meat. | butter. 
The potatoes should be small, oval or round, scooped out raw, stuffed with 
sausage-meat, baked with butter in a moderate oven. 

217. A LA BELLE-VUE (BELLE-VUE STYLE). 



white chaudfroid sauce 
(No. 124). 



tarragon-leaves, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



truffles, 
ox-tongue. 

Tliis is used for cold dishes. Masked with the sauce, decorated with the truffles, 
tarragon, and ox-tongue, cut in fancy shapes, garnished with chopped aspic jelly. 



218. A LA CHAMBORD (CHAMBORD GARNISH). 
fish quenelles, made with genoese sauce (No. 99). oysters. crayfish 



fish forcemeat (No. 200). 



mushrooms. 



truffles. 

Cook some whole mushrooms, and make some small quenelles with the fish force- 
meat ; cook some bearded oysters and shced truffles in Genoese sauce. When the 
quenelles are cooked, coat them with the sauce. Arrange these garnishes in heaps 
round the dish, alternately with whole crayfish. Serve with fish. 

219. A LA CHIPOLATA (CHIPOLATA GARNISH). 



1 gill young carrots. I 1 gill mushrooms. 
1 giU young turnips. ' 1 gill chestnuts. 



6 chipolata sausages \ lb. bacon 



(small). 



pepper and salt. 



Cut the carrots and turnips the size and shape of olives, blanch them, fry in 
butter, and then braise in stock ; blanch and peel the chestnuts, boil and glaze 
them ; cut the bacon into dice, also the cooked mushrooms ; slice the sausages. 
The garnish is arranged round the dish with the shces of sausage. 

220. A LA FEDORA (FEDORA GARNISH). 

artichoke bottoms. | foie-gras. | bordeaux sauce (No. 11). | beef- marrow. 

Make a puree of the foie-gras by passing it through a wire sieve ; mix with it a 
little of the sauce to make it a nice consistency. Fill the artichoke bottoms with 
this puree, heat in the oven, and put them round the dish to be garnished. Served 
with the Bordeaux sauce, which should contain cubes of parboiled marrow. 

221. A LA FLORENTINE (FLORENTINE GARNISH). 

artichoke bottoms. cauhflower. cream. veal stock, 

tomato sauce (No. 77). grated cheese. butter. seasoning. 

Cook the cauliflower, drain and rub through a hair sieve ; mix this puree with a 
little butter and cream ; fiU the artichoke bottoms with it, sprinkle with grated 
cheese, and bake in the oven. Put round the dish, and serve with tomato sauoe 
blended with veal stock. 



FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS. ETC. 



37 



222. A LA FERMIERE (FERMIERE GARNISH), 
potatoes. I butter. | carrots. | very small cabbages. | lettuces. 
Cut the potatoes in rounds, and fry them in butter ; glaze the carrots, and brais© 
the cabbages and lettuces. These are arranged in groups round the dish. 



3 cockscombs. 
1 sweetbread. 



223. A LA FINANCIERE (FINANCI^RE GARNISH). 

6 quenelles (veal forcemeat, | butter. 



4 truffles. 

6 mushrooms. 



No. 



201 ). I Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

Blanch the cockscombs by soaking in boiling water, dry them, and take oflF the 
skin ; stew in butter and stock. Cut the sweetbreads in slices or in dice, after being 
cooked. Slice the cooked mushrooms and truffles. Put all these ingredients, with 
the quenelles, into a saucepan ; moisten with Madeira sauce, and use. 

224. A LA FLAMANDE (FLEMISH GARNISH), 
carrots. | turnips. | French beans. | small cabbages. 
Scoop out the carrots and turnips with a vegetable-cutter, cut the beans, cook 
the vegetables in boiling water, braise the cabbages. Arrange in alternate groups. 
This garnish is suitable for fillet of beef and rump-steak. 



6 mushrooms. 
2 truffles. 



^ gill Madeira wine. 
Madeira sauce (No. 



50). 



225. A LA GOURMET (GOURMET GARNISH). 

4 artichoke bottoms. 

a small quantity of cooked ox-palate. 

Cut the artichokes into quarters, the mushrooms and truffles into dice, also the 
ox-palate ; put these into a saucepan with the wine, and cook for five minutes ; 
dilute A\ath Madeira sauce, cook for a few minutes longer, and it is ready for use. 

226. A LA GRECQUE (GREEK GARNISH), 
aubergines, or egg-plants. ] Beamaise sauce (No. 7). | Madeira sauce (No. 50). | butter. 
Cut the aubergines in quarters, parboil, and fry in butter ; moisten with a httle 
Madeira sauce, cook for ten minutes. Arrange in groups round dish with Bearnaise 
sauce. 

227. A LA JARDINIERE (GARNISH OF VEGETABLES). 



1 oz. butter, 
gill Bechamel sauce. 



chopped parsley. 

pepper. 

salt. 



1 pint macedoine of vegetables (such 
as peas, beans, carrots, turnips, 
asparagus tips, cauhflower sprigs). ! | gill cream. 

Scoop out the carrots and turnips with a vegetable scoop, the beans cut in short 
pieces. Cook all the vegetables separately. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put 
in the vegetables, add the sauce and cream ; let them get quite hot ; add the parsley 
and seasoning. Serve with meat entrees. 



2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 



228. 

2 onions, 
salt. 



A LA JULIENNE (JULIENNE GARNISH). 

white part of 2 leeks. 
3 or 4 cabbage-leaves. 



1 stalk of celery. 
3 ozs. butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls 
French beans. 



Peel and cut the vegetables into I-inch strips. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put 
in the vegetables, stew them for ten minutes, then add enough stock to cook them. 
When tender, strain and use. 



6 mushrooms. 
2 truffles. 



A LA MILANAISE (MILANESE GARNISH). 

2 tablespoonfuls 
grated cheese. 



229. 

about 3 gills Madeira (No. 50) 
and tomato sauces (No. 77). 



2 ozs. cooked ox-tongue. 
2 ozs. cooked macaroni. 



Cut the mushrooms, trufiies, ox-tongue, and macaroni into Juhenne strips ; put 
them into a saucepan with the sauces, mixed in equal quantities ; season with salt 
and pepper ; add the cheese, which should be either Parmesan or Gruyere ; cook all 
together for fifteen minutes. Used for mutton cutlets, fillets, chicken, etc. 



38 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

230. A LA MONTEBELLO (MONTEBELLO GARNISH). 
I pint Beamaise sauce (No. 7). | \ pint tomato sauce (No. 77), well reduced. | 3 truffles. 
Mix the two sauces together in a saucepan ; work these up without boihng ; add 
to the sauces the sHced truffles. 

231. A LA NORMANDE (NORMANDY GARNISH), 
fish quenelles (forcemeat, No. 200). mussels. crayfish tails. 



oysters. 



mushrooms. 



Normande sauce (No. 113). 
Make some small fish quenelles, slice the cooked mushrooms, blanch as many 
oysters and mussels as are required, prepare some shelled crayfish-tails. Put these 
ingredients into a saucepan, dilute with Normande sauce, stir carefully over the fire 
until hot. Served with fish. 

232. A LA PARISIENNE (PARISIAN GARNISH). 

I gill Madeira vvine. | 2 truffles. | 4 mushrooms. | ^ pint Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

Slice the mushrooms and truffles, put them into a saucepan with the wine, and 
cook for about five minutes ; then stir in the Madeira sauce ; bring to the boil, stirring 
all the time ; cook for five minutes ; it is then ready to serve. 

233. A LA PROVENCALE (PROVENCALE GARNISH). 

stuffed tomatoes. \ stuffed muslu-ooms. | string beans. | JMadeira sauce (No. 50). 

The stuffed mushrooms and tomatoes and the beans are arranged round the dish 
to be garnished in alternate groups. Can be served with all kinds of entrees. 
Madeira sauce is served with it. 

234. A LA REFORME (REFORM GARNISH). 



1 oz. cooked ham. 

1 hard-boiled white of egg. 



2 truffles. 

6 mushrooms. 



2 gherldns. ^ oz. butter. 



1 cooked carrot. 



a little stock. 



Cut the ham, hard-boiled white of egg, truffles, gherkins, carrot, and mushrooms 
into shreds ; melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shredded ingredients, moisten 
with a httle stock, and keep hot until required. Used as a garnish with cotelettes de 
mouton a la reforme. 

235. A LA REGENCE (REGENCY GARNISH). 



6 chicken quenelles. 
^ pint Allemande sauce 
(No. 1). 



1 small cooked sweetbread. 
4 mushrooms. 

2 truffles. 



6 cockscombs. 
6 cocks' kidneys. 
^ gill white wine. 



Cut the sweetbread into slices, also the mushrooms and truffles ; put these, with 
the cockscombs and kidneys and quenelles, into a saucepan with the wine ; cook for 
five minutes, then add the sauce ; cook a few minutes longer. 

236. A LA SOUBISE (SOUBISE GARNISH). 

3 onions. | Hozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. | 1 gill white stock. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Cut up the onions, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onions, cook them 
for a few minutes without browning, add the stock, and cook for twenty minutes. 
Add the sauce, and simmer a few minutes longer ; season with pepper and salt. 
Rub through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, reheat, and use. 



237. A LA ROUENNAISE (ROUEN GARNISH). 

2 turnips. 6 button onions. 

2 carrots. 2 ozs. butter. 



castor sugar. 

demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



Cut the turnips and carrots into olive shapes. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; 
put in the carrots, turnips, and onions ; sprinkle a little castor sugar over them, and 
saute them for a few minutes ; then add sufficient sauce to finish their cooking ; season 
them witb salt and pepper. Dress in groups round the dish, or serve in the centre. 



FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. 



39 



238. 

mussels, 
craj'fish. 



A LA MARINIERE (MARINIERE GARNISH). 



truffles. 

veloute sauce (No. 82). 



fish quenelles (forcemeat. 
No. 200). 

Make some small fish quenelles, blanch the mussels and trim them ; remove the 
shells from the crayfish after they are cooked ; keep the tails whole. Reduce some 
veloute sauce with some of the liquor the mussels were cooked in to a good consis- 
tency ; then add the mussels, truffles, and fish quenelles ; season with cayenne ; 
stir over the fire until hot. Serve with fish. 



239. A LA MATELOTE (MATELOTE GARNISH). 



soft roes, 
mussels. 



cooked crayfish tails, 
mushrooms. 



matelote sauce 
(No. 107). 



truffles, 
onions. 



Blanch some mussels, and boil some roes ; take out the meat from the crayfisli 
tails, keeping them whole ; glaze the mushrooms, truffles, and onions. This garnisli 
is dished in heaps round the dish, the matelote sauce being sent to table 
separately. 

240. A LA MARENGO, FOR CHICKEN (MARENGO GARNISH). 

mushroomi. brown sauce (No. 6). fried eggs, 

truffles. tomato sauce (No. 77). oil. 

Slice the mushrooms and truffles ; fry the eggs m oil. The dish is garnished with 
these, and the sauces served with the chicken. 



pepper, 
salt. 



truffles, 
meat-glaze. 



241. A LA SUPREME (SUPREME GARNISH). 

2 ozs. rice. the breast of a ^ oz. butter. 

1 pint white stock. chicken. ^ gill cream. 

Bring the stock to the boil ; sprinkle in the rice. Cut up the breast of the 
chicken, put it in a mortar ; pound well, then add it to the rice. Season with salt and 
pepper, and cook for thirty minutes ; strain ; return rice and chicken to the sauce- 
pan ; add the butter and cream. Heat without boihng. Arrange this garnish round 
a dish ; place the supremes in the centre, decorate with slices of truffles, and brush 
over a little meat-glaze. Supremes of game, poultry, or sweetbread may be served 
with this jrarnish. 



242. A LA TOULOUSE (TOULOUSE GARNISH). 

sweetbread. truffles. I mushrooms, 

foie-gras. tongue. | cockscombs. 

Sweetbread, foie-gras, mushrooms, tongue, and truffles cut in slices, and warmed 
in Allemande sauce. 



chicken quenelles. 
Allemande sauce (No. 



1). 



243. A LA TORTUE (TURTLE GARNISH). 



3 chicken livers. 

4 stoned olives. 



^ pint demi -glace sauce (No. 29). 
4 mushi'ooms. 



2 truffles. 1 small sweetbread, 

seasoning. 1 gill Madeira wine. 

Boil the chicken fivers a few minutes, cut them into large dice-shapes, put into a 
saucepan with the olives, truffles, mushrooms, and sweetbread, all cut in dice ; add 
the wine, cook for ten minutes ; then add the sauce and seasoning ; cook for another 
ten minutes. 



244. A LA VALENCIENNE (VALENCIA GARNISH). 



1 oz. ox-tongue. 

2 mushrooms. 



2 tablespoonfuls boiled rice. 
1 tablespoon ful grated cheese. 



1 truffle. 2 tablespoonfuls tomato 

seasoning. sauce (No. 77). 

Cut the truffle, tongue, and mushrooms in strips ; put them in a saucepan with 
the rice ; add the tomato sauce, seasoning, and cheese ; simmer for five minutes, and 
use. 



40 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



245. A LA WINDSOR 



(WINDSOR GARNISH). 

green haricots, 
sprigs of cauiiflower. 

The vegetables are cooked separately in stock. The dish is garnished with alter- 
nate groups of these vegetables and capers. Served with boiled mutton. 



young carrots, 
white stock. 



capers, 
seasoning. 



246. DUXELLE PUREE. 



8 mushrooms. 
4 shallots. 



\\ gills Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



2 ozs. lean ham. 
1 gill white wine. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 truffle. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
Chop the shallots, mushrooms, ham, and truffle ; melt the butter in a saucepan, 
add the chopped ingredients ; cook for a few minutes, then add the wine ; reduce to 
a quarter of the original quantity, add the sauce, and cook a few minutes longer ; 
stir in the parsley, and season to taste. 

247. MEAT-GLAZE. 

Put 8 or 9 quarts of strong brown or white stock into a saucepan, boil up, and 
reduce quickly, keeping it well skimmed during the process of boihng ; it will take 
three to four hours to reduce. When it is cooked sufficiently, put a spoon into it, 
and touch it with the fingers ; if it makes them stick together, it is ready. Put it 
into jars, keep in a dry place, and use as required. 



carcass of game. 
1 small onion. 



24S. FUMET OF GAME. 

1 bay-leaf. 1 oz. butter. j 1 gill white 2 ozs. raw bacon. 

I carrot. 1 quart stock. | wine. 1 sprig of thyme. 

Wash and scrape the carrot, peel the onion, and slice them. Put the butter in 
a saucepan ; when melted, put in the carcass, which must be chopped up, and the 
bacon cut in dice ; fry these together for a few minutes ; add the vegetables and 
herbs ; fry a short time longer ; add the wine, and cook for ten minutes. Stir in the 
stock ; cook for thirty minutes. Skim well, and strain. 

249. CALF'S-FOOT STOCK FOR JELLY. 

2 calf's feet. ] 4 quarts of cold water. 

Wash the feet in plenty of cold water ; remove all the hairs, and cut out all de- 
fective pieces ; put them into a large saucepan, cover with the water, place on a slow 
fire, and cook very slowly ; skim well, and continue to simmer imtil the quantity of 
water is reduced to half. Strain the stock, and when cold remove all fat ; the stock 
will now be ready to use for jelly. 



1 carrot. 

2 shallots. 
2 onions. 



250. MIREPOIX. 

1 bay-leaf. 

a sprig of thyme. 

4 ozs. bacon. 



2 ozs. butter, 
white wine, 
stock. 



Cut the carrot, onions, and shallots in slices ; cut the bacon into small pieces. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan ; add the vegetables, herbs, and bacon ; fry these 
without browning. Dilute with wine and stock as required. Used for sauces, for 
braising meats, soups, and stews. 



251. ASPIC JELLY. 

1 onion. 12 peppercorns. 

1 carrot. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 bay-leaf. whites and shells 

2 cloves. of 2 eggs. 

Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, cut them in quarters, wash the celery, peel 
the lemon very thinly ; put these ingredients into a large clean stewpan ; add the 



rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
1^ pints of water or stock, 
small piece of celery. 
Bmall blade of mace. 



2\ ozs. gelatine. 

1 gill of sherry. 

^ gill malt vinegar. 

\ gill tarragon vinegar. 



FLAVOURING BUTTERS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. 41 

spices, juice of the lemon, the vinegars, gelatine, water, and wine. Whisk the 
whites of the eggs, crush the shells, and put them into the stewpan with the rest of 
the ingredients. Stir over the fire with a whisk until the gelatine is melted, then 
whisk until it boils. Remove the whisk, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. 
Fix a clean cloth on to a soup-stand, or tie the cloth to the legs of a chair turned 
upside down ; put a basin underneath. Before straining the jelly, pour some boiling 
water through the cloth ; empty this away, then strain the jelly. If not clear the 
first time, pass it through again ; continue to do this until the jelly is clear. Allow 
it to run through the cloth ^vithout stirring. In hot weather more gelatine may be 
found to be necessary ; in cold weather less may be used. Aspic jelly is used for 
borders for cold entrees, and for garnishing. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

252. TO STRAIN CONSOMME. 

Put a clean Hnen cloth on a soup-stand, or tie the cloth to the four legs of a chair 
turned upside down ; for soup the cloth is best left dry. Place a basin underneath ; 
pour the soup slowly through the cloth, repeating the process if necessary ; the 
consomme must not be stirred, or it Mill become cloudy. 

253. CROOTONS frits POUR POTAGE (FRIED CRUSTS FOR SOUPS). 

Cut some slices of bread from a tin-loaf, take off the crust, and cut the crumb 
into ^-inch squares ; fry these in hot fat or butter a golden colour ; drain well. Serve 
these croutons separately, and not in the soup. 

254. CROOTONS POUR ENTREES (CRUSTS FOR ENTREES). 

Cut some shoes of bread from a tin-loaf, take off the crust, and cut \vith a cutter 
some pieces of bread to the required shape and size ; the thickness should be about 
I inch. Fry in clarified butter or fat. 

255. MARINADE. 

4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. I pepper, 

a little onion. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. | salt. 

Chop the onion finely ; mix it mth the vinegar and oil ; add salt, pepper, and 
the parsley. Pour this over the meat or fish, and let it remain in for some hours. 
Baste occasionally. 



CHAPTER III 

HORS - D'CEUVRES 

This course precedes the soup, and is partaken of for the purpose of stimulating the 
appetite. There are many hors-d'cBuvres which are served plain. The most popular 
of these are the following : 

256. OYSTERS. 

Usually served each in its own shell, with quarters of lemon and thin slices of 
brown bread and butter handed round. This is the most highly esteemed of all 
hors-d'oeuvres. 

257. CAVIARE 

should also be served simply. The addition of finely chopped onion or shallot, 
which is sometimes added, is not to be recommended, as it is apt to destroy the 
delicate flavour of the caviare. Caviare must on no account be touched with a 
metal implement ; this must be done with a wooden spoon or skewer. 

258. OLIVES, 

of which there are several kinds, should be green and firm, and not too salt ; they can 
be served plain or dressed. 

259. SARDINES. 

Open the tin carefully, take out the sardines, wipe them with a cloth, and serve 
them, for a plain hors-d'oeuvre, with a little salad oil poured over them and garnished 
with sprigs of fresh parsley. 

260. PRUNES A LA STRASBOURGEOISE (PRUNES WITH FOIE-GRAS). 
8 French plums. | 1 small terrine foie-gras. | cream. | anchovy fillets. | 8 croiites bread. 

Soak the plums in a basin of cold water for twelve hours ; take them out, wipe 
them, and then remove the stones, taking care not to spoil the shape of the plum. 
After the stones have been removed, put the plums into their original shape, leaving 
an aperture at the top of each. Take a small terrine of foie-gras, remove the truffle 
and the fat from the top, and rub the foie-gras through a fine sieve. Put the puree 
into a basin, and mix with it a little wliipped cream, just sufficient to make the 
puree of the right consistency. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag fitted with a 
rose-pipe, and fill the plums with it. Have ready some fried croutes of bread, 
about 1| inches in diameter ; spread these with the same mixture. Place a stuffed 
plum on each croute ; then round the plum wind some anchovy fillets, bringing them 
iiearly to the top of the plum. Dish up, and garnish the dish with watercress or 
sprigs of fresh parsley. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

261. PRUNES A LA MONTPELLIER. 
8 French plums. | 8 croutes bread. | MontpelUer butter (No. 181). 

Soak the plums, as in the previous recipe ; cut each down one side, and take out 
the stone ; open each plum wide, and fill it with Montpellier butter by means of a 
forcmg-bag with a rose-pipe. Place each plum on a croute of fried bread, previously 

42 




a 

J—* 

c 
o 

X. 



-03 
</> 

C 



.V 



HORS-D'CEUVRES 



43 



covered with a layer of the same butter that the plums are filled with. Dish up, and 
garnish the dish with sprigs of pa^sle3^ (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

262. PRUNES FARCIS AUX ANCHOIS (FRENCH PLUMS STUFFED WITH 

ANCHOVY). 



2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 
8 fried crontes bread. 



1 oz. anchovy paste. 
^ pint stock. 



1 oz. butter, 
cayenne. 



8 French plums. 
8 anchovy fillets. 

Prepare the plums as in the last recipe ; take out the stones, and open them down 
the centre. Put the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, the anchovy paste, and the butter 
into a mortar ; pound well together. Season the mixture Avith a little cayenne, and 
rub it through a wire sieve. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag fitted with a rose- 
pipe, and fill the plums, dressing the mixture rather high. Cut each anchovy fillet 
into four thin strips, and place them perpendicularly on the filling, letting the strips 
meet each other at the top. Place each plum on a fried croute of bread, covered with a 
layer of the same mixture. Dish up, and garnish wdth sprigs of parsley and watercress. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 




Fig. 1. — Prunes Farcis a la Strasbourgeoise. 



263. PRUNES FARCIS AUX FOIE-GRAS (FRENCH PLUMS STUFFED WITH 

FOIE-GRAS). 
8 French plums. | foie-gras. ( watercress or small salad. 

Soak the plums in cold water, wipe them, and remove the stones. Pass the 
foie-gras through a wire sieve ; cut each plum down the side ; fill with the foie-gras. 
Arrange a bed of watercress or small salad on a dish ; dress the plums on it, and serve. 
Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

264. SARDINES A LA TARTARE. 
12 sardines. | tartare sauce (No. 143). | 12 croutons fried bread. | watercress. 
Skin the sardines carefully, take out the backbone, and arrange each sardine on a 
fried crouton of bread, cut the same shape as the sardine. Coat the fish ^vith the 
sauce. Dish them on a bed of watercress, and garnish each sarchne with a few capers. 
Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 12 persons. 



44 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



265. SARDINES FARCIES AUX CREVETTES (SARDINES STUFFED WITH 

SHRIMPS). 



1 tablespoonfiil picked 
shrimps. 



12 sardines. 
a little vinegar. 



1 dessertspoonful capers. 
1 hard-boiled egg. 



1 oz. butter, 
cayenne. 



Drain the sardines free from oil, open them, and remove backbone (this must be 
done with the greatest care, so as not to break the fish) ; put the sardines on a dish, 
and pour over them a little vinegar ; let them remain in this for ten minutes, then 
drain them. Chop the shrimps finely ; pound them in a mortar with the capers, 
butter, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, until they are of the consistency of a thick 
paste. Stuff the sardines with this mixture. Dish up, and garnish each sardine 
with the hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and a few capers. Serve 
with them thin rolls of brown bread and butter. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 12 persons. 



266. SARDINES A L' ALEXANDRA. 



6 sardines. 
1 oz. butter. 
Capers. 



a little cream. 
I hard-boiled yolk 
of egg. 



parsley, 
salt. 



cayenne. 



1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
6 croutons fried bread, 
a pinch of curry -powder. 

Drain the sardines free from oil, scrape them, and take out the bones. Put the 
sardines into a mortar with the butter and cheese ; pound well together ; season with 
a pinch of curry-powder, cayenne, and salt ; mix all well together ; soften the mixture 
with a httle cream. Spread this paste on the fried croutes of bread ; sprinkle on 
the top of each the hard-boiled yolk of egg, which has been put through a wire 
sieve ; decorate with capers. Dish up, and garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley 
or watercress. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

267. OLIVES A LA NANTUA (OLIVES NANTUA STYLE). 



8 ohves. 
16 prawns. 



Montpellier butter 
(No. 181). 



4 anchovies. 
1 oz. butter. 



8 croutons fried bread, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



Cut some slices of bread about \ inch thick, stamp out some round with a cutter 
2 inches across ; fry these a golden brown in very hot fa t. Let them get cold. Stone 
the olives. Wash and bone the anchovies, put them into a mortar with the butter, 
and poimd well ; rub this mixture through a sieve ; fill the olives with it by means of 
a forcing-bag fitted with a rose-tube. Spread the fried croutes of bread with the 
MontpeUier butter ; place a stuffed ohve on each, and on each side of the olive put 
a praAvn-tail. Dish up, and decorate the dish with finely chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable April to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

268. OLIVES EN ASPIC (OLIVES IN ASPIC JELLY). 

10 ohves. 1 small terrine foie-gras. 10 fried croutes bread. 

1 oz. butter. J pint aspic jelly (No. 251). 4 filleted anchovies. 

Melt the aspic jelly in a small saucepan ; pour a small quantity of this into the 
bottom of some small bouche moulds ; let this set ; then place in each a stoned olive, 
fixing them in with a Httle of the jelly. Pass the foie-gras through a sieve, and fill 
the ohves with it by means of a forcing-bag. Fill up the moulds with the jelly, 
which should come halfway up the olive. Pound the anchovies \nth. the butter- 
and rub through a wire sieve ; spread the mixture on the fried croutes of bread 
When the Uttle moulds are set, turn them out, and put one on each of the croutes. 
Dish them neatly on a lace paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable any time. 
Sufficient for 10 persona. 



HORS-D'CEUVRES 45 

269. OLIVES A LA MONTPELLIER. 
6 olives. I ^lontpollier butter (No. 181). | 2 small tomatoes. 

Stone the olives, and stuff them with the butter. Cut each tomato into three 
sUces ; place an olive in the centre of each shce, and decorate round the base of each 
ohve with the MontpeUier butter by means of a rose-pipe and forcing-bag. Dish up, 
and garnish the dish with parsley or watercress. Spanish olives are the best kind to 
use for stuffing, as they are larger than other sorts. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

270. BETTERAVES A LA JARDINIERE (BEETROOT WITH 

VEGETABLES). 

1 small beetroot. 



ii.ayonnaise (No. 134). 



chopped parsley, 
brovm bread. 



mixed vegetables — i.e., carrots, a little vinegar, 

peas, beans, turnips, etc. salt and pepper. 

Cut the brown bread and beetroot into sUces ; stamp out some rounds of each 
about 1| inches across ; cut the carrots, beans, and turnips into small dice. Cook 
each separately in salted water, also the peas ; when cooked, drain them well, 
and mix them with a Uttle mayormaise, just sufficient to bind them together. 
Season the beetroot shces with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over them a few 
drops of vinegar ; place each round of beetroot on a round of brown bread ; 
pile the vegetables neatly on the top of the beetroot ; sprinkle a httle chopped 
parsley on the top of each. Arrange on a dish-paper, and garnish with spriga 
of parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 12 persons. 

271. BETTERAVES A LA ROYALE (BEETROOT ROYAL STYLE). 

1 small beetroot. | Montpellier butter (No. 181). | 2 hard-boiled eggs. | pepper. | salt. 

Cut the beetroot into sUces ^ inch thick ; season them with pepper and salt and 
a few drops of vinegar ; cut off the ends of the eggs, and then shce them into rounds ; 
season them with pepper and salt ; place an egg-slice on each side of beetroot. Make 
the Montpelleir butter, put it into a forcing-bag fitted with a rose-pipe, and force out 
a large rose in the centre of each piece of egg. Arrange tastefully on a dish with a 
lace paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

272. ROSETTES A LA RUSSE. 

1 small beetroot. | caviare. | 6 gherkins. | salt. | pepper. | lemon -juice. 

Cut the beetroot into shces -J inch thick ; season them with pepper and salt ; cut 
the gherkins into strips, and arrange them on the beetroot shces in the form of a 
rosette. Mix some caviare with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and put a piece in the 
centre of each rosette. Dish up and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

273. CAVIAR AUX ECREVISSES (CAVIARE WITH PRAWNS). 
2 ozs. Russian caviare. | 8 fried croiites bread. | 16 prawns. | 2 gherkins. | parsley. 
The croutes of bread should be the size of a crown-piece, and ^ inch thick. When 
the croutes are cold, place on each three or four pieces of caviare the size of a hazel- 
nut ; place two picked prawns on each croute, and a few shreds of gherkin between 
the pieces of caviare. Dish up, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable April to August, 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



46 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

274. CAVIARE BRISSOLETTES. 



mayonnaise (No. 134). I aspio jelly (No. 251). 
bread for cro 11 tes. | parsley. 



caviare, 
anchovy fillets. 

Cut the bread in rounds f inch across and | inch thick ; scoop out the centre, 
and fry them a golden bro^\Tl in very hot butter. When the croutes are cold, line 
them with mayonnaise that has been stiffened with aspic jelly ; let this set, then 
put in the centre of each a teaspoonful of caviare. Place a little chopped aspic on 
the top of each, and garnish with strips of anchovy fillets. Dish up, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 

275. CROOTES D'ECRIVISSES A LA CARDINAL (PRAWN CROIJTES 

CARDINAL STYLE). 



6 very small dinner-rolls, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 
mustard and cress. 



12 jorawns. 
1 gill tartare sauce 
(No. 143). 



lobster coral. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

\\ ozs. butter. 



2 ancho\ne3. 
1 gherkin, 
parsley. 

Cut the rolls one-third part from the top of each ; take out the crumb, and dry 
the crusts in a warm oven. Chop the prawns, filleted anchovies, gherkin, and the 
white of the hard-boiled egg ; mix these Avith the tartare sauce ; put some mustard and 
cress in each roll, and fill up with the mixture. Cut out some slices of aspic jelly 
I inch thick ; place one of these on the top of each roll ; fasten in the centre of each 
with a little lobster butter, a praAvn-head, and decorate with the same butter through 
a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached. To make the butter, pound the yolk of 
the hard-boiled egg with the butter ; pound the coral separately, and pass it through 
a hair sieve ; add this to the yolk and butter in the mortar, mix thoroughly, and use 
as directed. Dish the croutes on a lace paper, and garnish with parsley. (See 
coloured plate. ) 

Average cost, Is. lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable April to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

276. CROUTES A LA MARGUERITE. 

8 fried croutes bread. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

aspic jeUy (No. 251). ^ gill mayonnaise (N©. 134). 

Cut the croutes the size and shape of half a crown ; fry them, and let them get 
cold. Shell the egg, cut it in half, take out the yolk, and pass it through a wire 
sieve. Cut the white in strips. Melt some aspic jelly, and add enough to the 
mayonnaise to make it set (about one tablespoonful will be sufficient). Mask the 
croutes with this on one side only ; arrange the strips of white round from the centre 
to the edge in a ring to represent the petals of the flower ; when arranged, sprinkle 
over a little salt and a few drops of lemon- juice. Put some of the sieved yolk in 
the centre of each croute. Dish up on a lace paper, and garnish with watercress 
or parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

277. LANGUE DE BCEUF SUR CANAPES (TONGUE CROUTES). 
8 rounds fried broad. | mustard butter (No. 188). | 8 rounds very red tongue. 

Cut out the bread for the croutes with a fancy cutter ; fry them, and when cold 
cover with a layer of mustard butter. Upon this place a round of tongue the 
same size. In the centre of the tongue make a rosette of the mustard butter by 
means of a forcing-bag with a rose-forcer attached. Servo garnished with sprigs 
of parsley. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 16 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 



c^i 



•\ 




C 

■5 

u. 

o 

> 

u 

u 

LU 



a 
«j 

c 

O 



HORS-D'CEUVRES 47 

278. MEDAILLONS D'ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY MEDALLIONS). 
2 cold boiled potatoes. | 8 anchovy fillets. | salad oil. | 1 hard-boiiod egg. 
Cut the potatoes in rounds the size of half a crown ; cut the fillets in strips, and 
mai-inade them in oil ; arrange these round the slices of potato in the form of a 
rosette. Chop the hard-boiled egg finely, and place a small quantity in the centre 
of each. Dish up on a lace paper, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable ahvays, SufFicient 
for 6 or 8 persons. 

279. PAUPIETTES D'ANCHOIS. 

I cucumber. '■ 12 anchovy fillets. 1 3 tablespoonfuls cream. I 1 teaspoon ful vinegar. coral. 
1 oz. butter. , 2 ozs. lobster-meat. | 1 tablespoonful salad oil. | caj'enne. salt. 

Cut the cucumber in |-inch slices about the size of half a crown ; peel and blanch 
them, put them on a plate, and pour over them the vinegar and oil ; let them stand 
in this for half an hour, turning them over several times. Drain them, and hollow 
out their centres slightly. Arrange round the slices the fillets of anchovies, and fill 
the centres with the following mixture : Pound the lobster and coral finely in a 
mortar with the butter, add one tablespoonful of cream, mix well, and rub through 
a wire sieve. Whip the rest of the cream, and mix into the preparation ; season 
with salt and a pinch of cayenne. Use as directed. Dish the paupiettes, and 
garnish them with cress or parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable Apvil to September. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

280. CAVIAR AUX HUITRES (CAVIARE WITH OYSTERS). 

I lb. short pastry. | ca\aare. | 6 oysters. | pepper and salt. | !cmon-juice. 

Line some small patty-pans with the short paste, fill them with raw rico to keep 
them in shape, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pastry is cooked, tr.ko cut 
the rice carefully, and let the cases get cold. When ready to dish up, put in each 
piece of pastry a tablespoonful of caviare ; beard the oysters, and put one in each case 
on the caviare ; sprinkle the oysters with a little salt and pepper and lemon- juice. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

281. PYRAMIDES DE JAMBON (HAM PYRAMIDS). 

6 slices cooked ham. | 6 fried bread croites. | H ozs. horseradish. | 3 ozs. butter. 

Grate the horseradish finely, put it into a mortar A\ith the butter, and pound 
well together ; rub through a fine wire sieve. Cut the slices of ham, which must be 
very thin, into triangles, and then roll them to the shape of cones. Cut the croiites 
round, and, when fried, allow them to get cold ; then spread them with some of the 
horseradish butter. Stand the ham-cone on this, put the remainder of the mixture 
into a forcing-bag fitted with a rose-pipe, and fill the cones, letting the mixture come 
above the cone ; force a little of the mixture round the base, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

282. PYRAMIDES DE LANGUE DE BCEUF (TONGUE PYRAMIDS). 

6 slices very thinly cut tongue. 1 6 round fried croiites. Montpellier butter (No. 181). 

When the croutes are fried, let them get cold ; then spread them Avith a layer of 
Montpellier butter ; cut the tongue into triangles ; roll them into the shape of cones ; 
stand one of these on each croute of bread fried ; fill them with the Montpellier 
butter, using a forcing-bag for the purpose ; force a httle of the mixture round the 
base of the cone. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 mhiutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

PT. I * 



48 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOR 



283. TOMATO CANAPES. 



3 ozs. flour. 
2^ ozs. butter. 



mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 134). 



1 hard-boiled egg -yolk. 

2 filleted anchovies. 



2 tomatoes. 
6 oHves. 

Make some pastry with the flour and 1 J ozs. of butter, and a Httle water ; roll 
it out on a floured board, cut it into rounds about 2 inches across, and bake it in a 
moderate oven a pale colour. Stone the olives ; pound the anchovies, yolk of hard- 
joiled egg, and remainder of butter well together ; rub through a fine sieve ; stuff 
the ohves with this mixture. Cut the tomato in thin slices ; spread a little of the 
mayonnaise over each tomato-slice, leaving a rim of red ; place a stuffed olive in the 
centre of each, and place each tomato-slice, with the olive, on a round of pastry. 
Serve \Wth parsley or cress round. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 2. — Tomato Canapes. 



284. CEUFS AUX TOMATES (EGGS WITH TOMATO). 



1 gill tomato puree (No. 77). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 oz. butter, 
mustard and cress. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
2 anchovies (filleted). 

Mix the tomato puree with enough melted jelly to make it set. Fill some egg- 
cups with it, and let them get quite set. When firm, turn out the little shapes ; 
scoop out the centre, so that they look like half -eggs ; cut a piece off the end of each. 
to make them stand. Pound the anchovies, yolks of eggs, and butter together ; 
rub through a fine sieve. Fill the little egg-shapes with this mixture, piling it high. 
Dish up, and garnish with mustard and cress. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



285. CROOTES DE 



2 ozs. butter. 

2 ozs. anchovy paste. 



paprika pepper. 

8 or 10 fried croutes. 



CREVETTES (SHRIMP TOASTS). 

a pinch of cayenne. 
1 gill picked shrimps. 

Cut the bread in rounds 2 inches in diameter, fry, and let them get cold. Pound 
the butter and anchovy paste together, add a pinch of cayenne ; spread this on the 
croutes of bread ; arrange the shrimps round in the form of a star on the top of each 
croute ; put a pinch of paprika in the centre of each. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 10 persons. 



IIORS-D'OWVRLS 



49 



8 fried bread crovites. 
2 bard-boiled yolks. 



1 oz. anchovy paste. 
1 teaspoonful chutney. 



I oz. butter, 
cayenne. 



286. OLIVES A LA MADRAS. 

8 Spanish olives. 
8 fillets anchovy. 

Pound the yolks of eggs, butter, anchovy paste, chutney, and cayenne together 
in a mortar ; then rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Stone the oHves, and fill 
thorn with the mixture ; spread some of the same puree on the croutes ; put one of 
tlio stuffed ohves in the centre of each. Curl an anchovy fillet round each olive, 
and decorate with the rest of the puree through a forcer. Dish up, garnish with 
cress or parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufiicient for 8 persons. 




Fig. o. — Olives a la Madras. 



287. PETITS PAINS AUX HUITRES (LITTLE ROLLS WITH OYSTERS). 

I oz. butter. 6 very small dinner rolls. I watercress. 

18 oysters. mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). | seasoning. 

Cut the dinner-rolls in halves, scoop out the centre, put a small piece of butter in 
each, and place them in the oven for a few minutes. Take the beards from the 
oysters, cut each oyster in quarters, put them into a basin with a little chopped 
watercress and seasoning ; add to them some mayonnaise, mix well together, 
and fill the little rolls with this mixture. Dish up, and garnish with water- 
cress. 

Average cost, 2s. lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

288. BARQUETTES DE HOMARD (LITTLE BOAT-SHAPES OF 

LOBSTER). 



pastry (Recipe No. 289). 
^ gill whipped cream. 



4 ozs. lobster-meat 
and coral. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
J giU aspic jelly. 



cayenne, 
salt. 



Make the pastry, roll and cut it out, line some little boat-shaped moulds with it, 
fill them with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Remove the rice, and allow 
them to cool. Poimd the lobster-meat and coral together until very fhic, rub through 
a wire sieve, put the puree into a basin, and add the cream to it, which should be 
half whipped, and the aspic jelly melted, but not hot ; season to taste with salt 
and cayenne. Fill the baked cases with this mixture. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in 

4—2 



50 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



slices, stamp them out with a fancy cutter, and put a shce on the top of each case ; 
in the centre of the yolk put a pinch of lobster coral. Dish up in the same \\ay as 
in the following recipe. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable April to September. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

289. BARQUETTES DE CREVETTES (LITTLE BOAT-SHAPES OF 

SHRIMPS). 

3 ozs. butter. 
1 yolk of egg. 
cayenne. 

First make the tartlet paste as follows : Pass the flour through a sieve into a 
basin with a pinch of salt ; break up the butter (2 ozs.), and rub it into the flour ; 
mix to a paste with the yolk of egg and a little water ; knead it into a ball, and 
allow it to stand in a cool place for one hour. Roll out the paste \ inch thick, cut 



1 lb. flour. 

4 ozs. shrimps. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 

a little water. 

paprika pepper. 




Fig. 4. — Barquettes de Crevettes. 



it out Avith an oval cutter, and line the little boat-shaped moulds with it ; prick the 
paste at the bottom of the moulds, and fill Avith raw rice ; bake in a moderate 
oven. Remove the rice, and let cool. Put aside for decoration twenty-four picked 
slirimps. Put the remaining unpicked shrimps into a mortar, with the 3 ozs. butter ; 
pound well together ; season to taste with a little salt and a pinch of cayenne ; rub 
through a fine sieve, and then through muslin or a hair sieve. Fill the baked crusts 
with this mixture, put four picked shrimps in the centre of each barquette in the 
form of a star, sprinkle in the centre of the star of shrimps a pinch of paprika. 
Dish up on a lace paper in a circle, one end of each barquette meeting in the centre. 
Grarnish with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 9(1. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



290. 



PETITS CHOUX A LA REINE. 

4 ozs. cooked chicken or veal, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 
pepper and salt. 

Make the choux paste into very small round balls, and bake in a cool oven ; brush 
over with white of egg, and return to the oven for five minutes. Let the little balls 



1 dessertspoonful mayonnaise 

sauce (No. 134). 
i gill stiff white sauce. 



choux pastry. 
1 oz. cooked ham. 
watercress. 



HORS-D'CEUVRES 



51 



get cold. Mince the chicken and ham, and stir them into the sauce ; season \Aitli 
pepper and a httle salt ; add the mayonnaise as soon as the mixture is cold : fill the 
little choux with it. Decorate the tops alternately with yellow and red a.spic jelly, 
chopped finely. Dish up, and garnish with watercress. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

N.B. — The recipe for choux pastry will be found in the pastry section. 

291. CANAPES DE FOIE-GRAS. 



1 small terriiie foie-gras. 
G anchovy fillets. 



1 hard-boiled yolk. 

6 small rounds fried bread. 



Spread the fried croutes of bread with the foie-gras puree ; cut the yolk of eg"; 
into squares, and place one on the top of each croute ; sprinkle a pinch of 
paprika on the egg, and garnish round the edge of the croutes with the anchovy 
fillets. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
SufiScicnt for G persons. 




Fig. 5. — Petits Choux a la Reine. 



292. PLOVERS' EGGS, PLAIN. 

These eggs, when served as a hors-d'oeuvre, are always hard-boiled. Place 
them in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, let them boil for eight minutes 
after reaching boiling-point. Let them cool, and serve them in a bed cf 
watercress. 

293. PLOVERS' EGGS IN ASPIC. 
6 plovers' eggs. | aspic jelly (No. 251). | 1 truffle, i chervil-leaves. | watercress. 

Cover the bottoms of six small dariole moulds with aspic jelly ; let this set, then 
decorate each with a star of truffle and a few chervil-leaves ; sprinkle with a little 
aspic in order to set the decoration. Boil the eggs hard, and shell them ; put am 
in each mould ; pour in a little aspic to set them ; when firm, fill up the tins w ith 
as])ic, so as to cover the eggs. Put on ice to set. When ready to serve, dip the 
moulds in hot water, wipe them quickly, and turn the shapes out on to a dish in a 
circle. Garnish with chopped asjiic and watercress. 

Average cost, 2s. Gd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable April to May. 
Sufficient for G persons. 



52 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

294. PLOVERS' EGGS A LA MOSCOVITE. 

6 plovers' eggs. | tartlet paste (No. 2S9). | casriare. i watercress or parsley. 

Line some small patty-pans with the pastry, fill them with rice, and bake in a 
moderate oven. Let cool. Boil the eggs hard, and when they are cold, shell them. 
Put some ca\'iare at the bottom of each tartlet crust, and place an egg in the centre 
of each. Dish up, and garnish with watercress or parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable April and May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



295. CANAPES A L'INDIENNE. 



1 oz. cooked chicken. 
1 teaspoonful chutney. 



pinch of curry -powder. | 1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. cooked ham. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 8 croutes fried bread. | seasoning. 

Mince the chicken and ham finely ; put them into a mortar with the butter, 
chutney, curry-powder, and seasoning, and pound well. Pass this mixture through 
a Avire sieve, and spread it on the croutes of bread. Decorate them with the hard- 
boiled egg, finely chopped. Dish on a lace paper, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



296. CANAPES A LA REFORME. 



8 croutes bread. 
1 slice tongue. 



1 hard-boiled Avhite 
of egg. 



1 truffle. 
1 gherkin. 



ravigote butter (No. 183). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 

Fry the croutes of bread a golden broAvn ; when cold, spread over them a layer of 
ravigote butter. Cut the tongue, white of egg, truffle, and gherkin into fine strips ; 
garnish the croutes with these, blending the colours. Dish up, and serve with parsley 
or watercress. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

297. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA TARTARE (ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH 

TARTARE SAUCE). 



12 artichoke bottoms. 

1 gill tartare sauce (No. 143). 



olives. 



\ pint macedoine of 

vegetables. paprika. 

Take a bottle of preserved artichokes, drain them from the liquor, and season 
them with pepper and salt. Mix the vegetables with the tartare sauce, and fill the 
artichokes ; put a layer of thick tartare sauce over each. Stone the olives, cut them 
in rings, and decorate the artichokes with these ; in the centre of each ring put a 
pinch of paprika. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 persons. 

298. LAITUES A LA GENOISE (LETTUCE-LEAVES GENOESE STYLE). 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



6 anchovies, 
lettuce-leaves. 



beetroot, 
capers. 



Cut the eggs and anchovies into small dice, put them together into a basin, add 
to them a few capers, and mix in sufficient mayonnaise to bind the ingredients. Cut 
the lettuce-leaves into rounds about 2 mclies in diameter ; do this with a round 
cutter ; put a spoonful of the mixture on the rounds of lettuce, arrange in a pile, 
and decorate to taste with beetroot and chopped parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable January to 
September. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 



J99. LAITUES A L'INDIENNE (LETTUCE-LEAVES INDIAN STYLE). 

beetroot, 
lettuces. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 12 prawns. 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 

a pinch of curry-powder. seasoning. mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

Cut the eggs into dice, and the prawns in half lengthways ; mix them together 
m a basin with the chutney, curry-powder, seasoning, and may^.nnaise sauce. 



HORS-D'CEUVRES 53 

Stamp out some rounds from the lettuce-leaves, dress the mixture on them, 
garnish to tast« with beetroot and chopped parsley, and serve as soon as it is 
ready. 

Average cost, Is. Gd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable April to August. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

300. CANAPES A LA PRINCE DE GALLES. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 

4 very small rolls. 

^ tcaspoonful chopped tarragon and parsley. 

Cut the prawns, anchovies, celery, truffle, and gherkins into dice ; mix them 
together with the chopped tarragon, parsle}^ and tartare sauce ; season with a little 
pepper. Cut the rolls in halves, scoop out the soft part, and fill them with the 
mixture. Stamp out some rounds of aspic jelly, the same size as the rolls, and 
about I inch tliick ; place one of these on the top of each canape. Dish on a lace 
paper, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. In season April to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



12 pra-.\-ns. | anchovy flllete. 

1 truffle. I 1 small head of celery. 

2 gherkins. ' tartare sauce (No. 143). 



301. CANAPES DANCHOIS. 



4 very small rolls. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 
10 anchovy fillets. 



1 tablespoonful salad oil. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar, 
pepper and salt. 



1 small teaspoonful chopped 
tarragon, chervil, and 

parsley. 

Cut the rolls in halves, scoop out the crumb, and dry the crusts in a cool oven. 
Chop the eggs, put them in a basin with the chopped herbs and six of the anchovy 
fillets, cut in fine strips, season with pepper and salt, and add the oil and vinegar ; 
mix well, and fill the rolls with this mixture. Cut the remaining four fillets of 
anchovies into strips, and ornament the canapes Avith them, arranging them in the 
form of lattice-work. Dish on a lace paper, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

302. CANAPES DE SARDINES A LA REMOULADE (CANAPES OF SARDINES 

WITH REMOULADE SAUCE). 



6 sardines, 
chopped parsley. 



6 finger-shapes of fried bread. capers, 

remoulade sauce (No. 140). cayenne. 

Bone the sardines carefully, so as not to break them ; place a sardine on each 
piece of fried bread, season with pepper and salt, and coat them with remoulade 
sauce ; decorate them with a few capers and chopped parsley. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



303. PAUPIETTES DE BETTERAVE A LA MONTPELLIER (LITTLE ROLLS OF 
BEETROOT WITH MONTPELLIER BUTTER). 

Montpellier butter (No. 181). 8 oval croutes fried bread. 

1 beetroot. 8 anchovy fillets. 

Cut from the thickest part of the beetroot some very thin slices ; put a small 
teaspoonful of Montpellier butter in the centre of each slice of beetroot, and roll up 
carefully. Spread the croutes of bread with a layer of the same butter, and place 
a roll of beetroot on each. Cut each fillet into three strips, and place them round the 
rolls. Decorate the croutes with the butter by means of a forcing-bag fitted with a 
rose-forcer. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all umes. 
Sufficient tor 8 persons. 



54 THE WEAL COOKERY BOOK 

304. CASSOLETTES D'ECRIVISSES (CASES OF SHRIMPS). 

I lb. tartlet paste (No. 2S9). 1 gill shrimps or praAMis (picked). I chopped par.^ley. 

h gill aspic jelly (No. 251). \ gill stiff mayonnaise (No. 134). I lobster coral. 

Roll out the paste, and line ^^•itl^ it some small patty-pans ; fill them with raw 
rice, and bake a pale colour. Take out the rice, and let the cases get cold. Mix 
together the mayonnaise and aspic jelly, stir the shrimps into it, season with salt 
and a pinch of cayenne ; fill the paste crusts with this mixture. Decorate the top 
of each alternately with chopped parsley and sieved coral. Dish up, and garnish 
with sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

305. CREVETTES A LA DUCHESSE. 



18 pra%^'ns. 



^ lb. short pastry. 



1 dessert spoon fill capers. 

^ teaspoonful anchovy essence. 



^ gill mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 1.34). 

Roll out the short pastry, and cut into rounds 2 inches across ; bake them a light 
colour in a moderate oven ; let them get cold. Pick the prawns, put them into a 
boul with the capers, the anchovy essence, and the mayonnaise ; mix all well 
together, and put the mixture on the rounds of baked pastry. Garnish each with a 
little chopped parsley or lobster coral. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable April to August. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

303. LAITANCES DE HARENG SUR CROUTES (HERRING-ROES ON 

CROUTES). 



8 pnft rocs, 
salad oil. 



8 round crontes fried bread, 
hard-boiled yolk of egg. 



2 tablespoonfuls cucumber 
cut in dice. 



1 fablespoonful capers. 
chopped parsley. 



Wash the roes, put them in a pie-dish with a little water and vinegar, and cook 
them for ten minutes ; then take them from the oven and let them get cold. Mix 
the cucumber and capers together ; season them with pepper and salt and oil. Pile 
a little of this on each croute ; place one of the cooked roes on the top of each ; 
sprinkle with the hard-boiled yolk of egg, which should have been sieved ready, 
and a pinch of parsley. Dish up, and garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley or cress. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times, as the 
herring-roes can be obtained in glass jars. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

307. NIDS DE FOIE-GRAS (NESTS OF FOIE-GRAS). 

1 small terrine foie-gras. 1 oz. butter. I salt and pepper. 

2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. stale bread. \ aspic jelly (No. 251). 

Cut some slices of bread \ inch thick, stamp out with If -inch cutter eight or ten 
rounds, cut out some of the inside of each, and fry a golden colour ; let them get 
cold. Take away the fat from the foie-gras, also remove the truffle ; cut some small 
squares of foie-gras, and put on one side. Put the remainder into a mortar with 
the butter, hard-boiled eggs, and seasoning ; pound well together, and rub through 
a wire sieve, allowing it to fall on to the crotites of bread as it falls from the sieve. 
Place a square of foie-gras in the centre of each croute. Dish up, and garnish with 
chopped aspic and parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 10 persons. 



308. CROUTES A LA BALMORAL. 

hard-boiled yolks of ":gg. 
chopped parsley. 

Spread the croutes with a layer of caviare ; cut the lax into strips, and arrange 
them on the caviare in the form of lattice- work. In the divisions formed by the strips 



8 rounds fried bread, 1| inches 
in diameter. 



caviare. 
lax. 




I/) 

w 

«J 

B 
o 

H 

X 

<i 
(u 

E 
o 
o 

c 
o 

U 

(i> 
-o 

<u 

(/) 

O 




nORS-D'(EUVRES 55 

of lax sprinkle the hard-boiled yolk of egg and the chopped parsley alternately. 
Dish up, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

309. CROUTES A LA RUSSE. 
slices of bread. | anchovy butter (No. 170). | caviare. | Montpellier butter (No. 181). 

Cut the slices of broad ^ inch thick, and stamp out some rounds 1| inches across ; 
fry them a golden colour. Let tliem cool, then put in the centre of each a piece 
of caviare ; decorate round it with the two butters alternately, using a forcing-bag 
with a rose-forcer for the purpose. Dish up, and keep in a very cool place until 
ready to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 mhiutes. Seasonable at all times. 



310. CROUTES A LA DUCHESSE. 



f) anchovy fillets. 

1 oz. butter. 

1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. 



1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 

2 ozs. cooked dried b.addock. 
8 crontes of fried bread. 



leraon- juice, 
seasoning. 
8 prawns. 



Put the anchovy fillets, butter, hard-boiled yoLlc, cooked haddock, and seasoning 
into a mortar ; pound all well together, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and rub 
through a fine sieve ; spread the croutes with this mixture. Place a picked prawn 
in the centre of each croiito. Put the remainder of the puree into a forcing-bag 
fitted with a rose-pipe, and decorate the croutes with it ; sprinkle over a little parsley 
or coral. Dish up, and garnish with parsley or cress. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable April to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



311. OLIVES A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

12 Spanish olives. 



lobster coral, 
parsley. 



12 rounds fried bread (li- inches in diameter). 

^ gill tartare sauce (No. 14.S). 12 anchovy fillets. 

Stone the olives, and fill them with the tartare sauce, which must be very stifT ; 
place an ohve on each croute of bread ; wind an anchovy fillet round the base of 
each ohve ; decorate the croutes round the olives with lobster coral and chopped 
parsley. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 12 persons. 

312. PETITES CAISSES DE CONCOMBRE FARCIS (LITTLE CASES OF STUFFED 

CUCUMBER). 

1 cucumber. C anchovies. 1 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, i cayenne. 

3 or 4 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. I sprigs of parsley. 

Cut the cucumber into pieces about 1| inches in length, keeping them all the samf 
size ; with a sharp knife cut the peel, so as to make strips of green and white. Scoop 
out the centre of each case, taking care not to go right through. Chop the pulp 
that has been scooped out. Pound the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, butter, two boned 
anchovies, and chopped parsley together ; rub through a wire sieve, season with 
cayenne, and add to it the chopped cucumber pulp. Fill the cucumber cases with 
this mixture, piling it rather high ; put an anchovy fillet round the base of the 
filhng ; stand each piece of cucumber on a slice of tomato. Dish up, and garnish 
with parsley. (See illustration.) 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable March to Sep- 
tember. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



CHAPTER IV 

POTAGES (SOUPS) 

Soups are divided into two chief classes : 

1. Consommes (clear soups), both plain and garnished. 

2. Thick soups, which include purees, creams, and veloutes. 

To these may be added a third class, consisting of soups that are used in every da j 
cookery, but are not suitable for smart dinners. 

Stock is the foundation of all soups, and the importance of good stock in cooking 
cannot be overestimated, not only in the making of soups, but also for the prepara- 
tion of sauces, gra\nes, and many other dishes for which stock is used. 

Rules for Stock-making. — The best materials should be obtained, and all in- 
gredients should be perfectly fresh. Cold water must be used for commencing the 
stock, as it draws out the juices from the meat. It should be brought slowly to the 
boil, and then allowed to simmer for the allotted time, keeping it well skimmed. 
The stock should be made the day before it is Avanted, as it can then be strained, 
allowed to get cold, and all the fat removed. 

There are four kinds of stock : (1) Brown stock ; (2) white stock ; (3) game stock ; 
(4) fish stock. 

STOCKS 

313. BROWN STOCK. 

4 lbs. shin of beef. a few chicken giblets. | 6 quarts cold water, 

stick of celery. 2 lbs. knuckle of veal. I bouquet grain (No. 194). 

Cut up the meat into large cubes, chop the bones, clean the giblets ; prepare the 
vegetables, and cut them in slices. Put some fat into a large saucepan, and when 
melted, add the vegetables and bones to it ; fry imtil brown, then add the meat, the 
giblets, and the herbs ; pour on to them the cold water, and bring slowly to the 
boil. Then skim carefully, taking off all scimi as it rises. Simmer gently for five 
hours. When the stock has simmered sufficiently, strain it into a basin, and put it 
aside imtil cold ; then remove the fat, and use as required. 

Average cost, 4s. 

314. WHITE STOCK. 



2 onions. I 2 leeks. 
2 carrots. 1 1 turnip. 



4 lbs. knuckle of veal. 
6 quarts cold water. 
2 lbs. shin of beef. 



stick of celery. 

2 cloves (stuck in the onions). 

12 peppercorns. 



2 onions. bones of poultry, if avail- 

2 carrots. able. 

2 leeks. bouquet garni (No. 194). 

Cut up the meat into large cubes ; chop the bones. Put these into a large sauce- 
pan ; add the water, and bring it slowly to the boil ; take off the scum as it rises, 
adding occasionally a little cold water, as this will help to bring the scum to the top. 
After all the scum has been carefully removed, add the vegetables, which have been 
prepared in readiness, a tablespoonful of salt, and the peppercorns. Simmer for 
five hours at the side of the fire. At the end of this time strain the stock into a large 
basin, and let it get cold. Remove from it every particle of fat, and use as required 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 5 hours. 

6f. 



POTAGES (SOUPS) 



57 



I old pheasant or 2 partridges. 
3 quarts of white stock or water. 



bouquet garni. 
3 or 4 mushrooms. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



1 stick celery, 
salt. 



315. GAME STOCK. 

I 2 ozs. butter. 
12 peppercorns. 

Draw and clean the game ; cut it up into joints. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; 
slice the vegetables, and put them with the game into the butter, and fry them all 
together for about twenty minutes ; dilute Avith the stock or water ; let it come to 
the boil ; skim well, add salt, peppercorns, and the bouquet garni ; let it simmer 
gently for three hours. Strain, remove all fat, and use as required. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable October to February. 



316. FISH STOCK. 



1 oz. parsley stalks. 

2 onions. 



1 gill white wine. 

2 quarts water. 



2 lbs. of trimmings and bones 
of white fish. 

Slice the onions, and put them into a saucepan with the fish trimmings and bones. 
Add to them the wine, and reduce to half the quantity ; now add the water, let it 
come to the boil, skim well, and cook for thirty minutes. Strain into a basin, and use 
as required. 

Time required, 30 minutes. 

317. SECOND STOCK. 

This is made by putting the meat and bones that were used for first stock back 
into the saucepan, and adding to them the same quantity of water as before. Any 
bones from joints, or pieces of meat which cannot be used in other ways, should be 
added to the second stock. Simmer for five hours, keeping it well skimmed. When 
cooked, strain it, and use as required. This stock is used for puree soups and sauces, 
and for many other pui"poses. 



1 carrot. 

1 leek. 

piece of celery. 



bouquet gami. 
3 quarts water. 
12 peppercorns. 



318. POT-AU-FEU. 

3 lbs. beef (brisket or j 2 onions. 

shin). 1 2 cloves. 

^ a very white cabbage. 1 turnip. 

Prepare the vegetables ; stick the cloves into the onions. Put the meat into a 
saucepan, add to it the cold water, and bring it to the boil ; skim well, then add the 
vegetables, some salt, and the peppercorns. Simmer slowly for three to four hours. 
Strain off the stock into a tureen ; cut up carrots, turnips, and leeks into small pieces, 
and put them into the soup. Serve the meat and cabbage separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 

CONSOMMES 



319. CONSOMME (CLEAR SOUP). 



1 sprig marjoram. 

2 whites of eggs. 
2 shells of eggs. 



1 stick of celery. 
1 glass of sherry, 
seasoning. 



I lb. shin of 1 onion. 12 peppercorns. 

beef. 1 carrot. 1 sprig of thyme. 

^ bay-leaf. 2 cloves. 2 quarts stock. 

Remove all fat from the stock, ^^ hich must be cold ; mince the meat finely ; 
prepare the vegetables, cut them in good-sized pieces. Whip the whites of the eggs, 
and crush the shells ; put the meat with these ; add to them a tablespoonful of cold 
water. Put all these ingredients, with, the stock, herbs, and spice, into a saucepan. 
Wliisk over the fire until it begins to boil ; let it simmer for ten minutes, then add 
the wine ; bring it to the boil again, take it off the fire, and let it stand for five 
minutes. Strain through a cloth slowly. Return to the saucepan, reheat, season 
to taste with salt, and add a small lump of loaf sugar ; it is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, exclusive of stock. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 
5 persons. 

N.B. — In all the following recipes for consommes, the average cost and time of 
preparation of the garnish only will be given. 



58 TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

320. CONSOMME DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN CLEAR SOUP), 



1 lb. shin of beef. 


1 fowl. 


1 bouquet garni 


1 leek. 


1 lb. veal. 


1 onion. 


(No. 194). 


2 cloves 


1 stick of celery. 


1 carrot. 


4 quarts water. 


salt. 



Clean and truss the fowl for boiling ; wash the giblets ; cut up the veal and beef 
in pieces ; put them, with the fowl and giblets, into a saucepan ; add the water 
(cold), and bring to the boil ; then skim well, add some salt, and skim again. Peel 
and clean the vegetables ; put them into the saucepan with the rest of the ingredients, 
the bouquet garni, and the cloves ; simmer slowly for four hours. After cooking 
for one hour, the fowl may be taken out and used in some other way, either as boiled 
fowl or made into an entree. If this soup is kept well skimmed during cooking, it 
■will be ready to serve after straining through a cloth. If not clear, it must be 
clarified in the usual way. 

Average cost, 2s., not allowing for cost of chicken, which should be used for 
another dish. Time required, 5 hours. Sufficient for 12 persons. 

321. ROYAL CUSTARD (FOR CLEAR SOUPS). 

3 yolks of eggs. | 1 gill stock. 1 white of egg. | pepper and salt. 

Beat the eggs in a basin ; add the stock ; season to taste with pepper and salt ; 

pour into a well-buttered timbale mould ; cover with a buttered paper, and steam 

slowly for about fifteen minutes luitil the custard is firm. Unmould on to a plate ; 

cut in slices, and then into fancy patterns or in dice. Serve in clear soups. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 quarts of con- 
somme. 

322. DIABLOTINS (DEVILLED CRUSTS FOR CLEAR SOUP). 

1 dinner roll. j J oz. butter. | 2 tablespoonfuls grated Gruyere cheese. | cayenne. 

Cut the roll into slices ^ inch thick ; spread each slice with butter, cover with the 
cheese, and season highly with cayenne. Bake these in a hot oven a golden colour. 
Serve separately with clear soup. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 12 persons. 

323. JULIENNE. 

To cut in " Julienne fashion " means to cut in strips the shape of matches. For 
Julienne soup the vegetables should be from 1 to 1| inches long, and \ inch thick. 

324. TO SHAPE QUENELLES (GARNISH FOR CONSOMME). 

\ lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). 
Take two spoons, according to the size of the quenelles desired — either small tea- 
spoons, or, when wanted, large dessert-spoons. Dip one of the spoons to be used in 
hot water, fill it with the forcemeat, and shape into a dome-shape with a knife 
dipped in hot water. Take the other spoon, dip it in hot water, insert it under the 
quenelle, and transfer it to the saute-pan in which it is to be poached ; continue in 
this way until the mixture is used up. Boiling water is poured carefully into the 
pan until the quenelles are half covered ; a piece of buttered paper is put over them 
to keep in the steam, and a lid, and they are cooked for ten minutes or less, 
according to size. 

325. TO SHAPE STUFFED QUENELLES. 

Proceed as follows : 

Line a dessert-spoon with a thin coat of forcemeat ; then place in the centre the 
stuffing — i.e., vegetables, jelly, etc. Cover this with some more forcemeat ; shape 
it, with a knife dipped in hot water, into the shape of a dome ; proceed, as in last 
recipe, to remove the quenelle from the spoon to the pan in which it is to be cooked. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 59 



2 quarts first stock (No. 313) 
i small cauliflower. 



326. CROOTE-AU-POT. 

salt. 



pinch of chervil. 
1 dinner-roll. 



pepper. 



1 carrot. 
I turnip. 

Cook the vegetables separately in salted water ; drain them, and cut the carrot 
and turnip into small pieces ; divide the caulifloAver into sprigs. Heat the stock, 
which should be free from fat ; put the vegetables into it, season to taste, and, before 
serving, add the chervil. The dinner-roll should be cut in thin rounds, and baked 
in a moderate oven. These croutons can be either served in the soup, or can be 
handed round. 

Average cost, exclusive of stock, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 

10 persons. 

327. CONSOMME A L'ANDALOUSE. 

2 quarts consomme (No. 319). i 1 egg. j 1 tablespoonful cucumber. 

^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). ! 1 tablespoonful cooked ham. I 1 tablespoonful boiled rice. 

Beat the egg, add to it the tomato sauce, mix together, and turn it into a well- 
greased timbale mould ; steam it for ten minutes. When cooked, turn it out and cut 
into dice. Cut the ham and cucumber in Julienne strips ; cook the cucumber in 
salted water until tender ; boil the rice, taking care that every grain is separate. 
Put this garnish into a soup-tureen, pour the hot consomme on it, and serve. 

Average cost of garnish, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season February 
to September. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. 

328. CONSOMME DE BETTERAVE (CLEAR BEETROOT SOUP). 

1 quart stock (No. 313). | 1 beetroot. | a little vinegar. | 1 gill cooked rice. 

Cut up the beetroot into slices ; put it on a dish or into a pie-dish, and pour over 

it a little vinegar. Let it stand until the juice of the beetroot has been extracted. 

In the meanwliile proceed to clear the stock (as in recipe No. 319), and just before 

the stock is strained add the beetroot-juice, boil up, and pass the soup through a 

cloth. Return to the saucepan, reheat, and add the boiled rice. It is then ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



329. CONSOMME BRUNOISE. 



2 quarts clear soup 

(No. 319). 
1 small turnip. 



1| OZ8. butter. 

1 tablespoonful peas. 

pinch of chervil. 



1 tablespoonful French 2 carrots. 

beans. ^ onion. 

1 small stick of celery. 1 leek. 

Cut the carrots (red part only), turnip, onion, leek, and celery into very small 
dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the vegetables, and stew them for a 
few minutes ; then dilute with half a pint of consomme, and finish cooking the 
vegetables. When ready to serve, add the rest of the consomme, also the cooked 
peas and beans, the latter to be cut in dice Pour into the soup-tureen, and sprinkle 
in the pinch of chervil. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

330. CONSOMME BOUQUETIERE (CLEAR SOUP WITH VEGETABLES). 



§ gill French beans. 
^ gill asparagus -heads. 



2 quarts consomme (No. 319). I 2 carrots. I 1 turnip. 

3 tablcspoonfuis crushed tapioca. | 1 leek. I 1 gill peas. 

Cut the carrots and turnip into shoes, and then into fancy shapes with a cutter ; 
slice the leek into thin strips ; cut the French beans into dice. Cook these vegetables, 
also the peas and asparagus-heads, in stock separately ; Avhen tender, put the vege- 
tables into a soup-tureen. Wliile the vegetables are cooking, heat the consomme ; 
as soon as it boils, sprinkle in the tapioca, and cook for ten minutes, or until the 
tapioca is transparent. Pour over the vegetables, and serve. 

Time required, 20 minutes. In season from March to August. Sufficient for 
12 persons. 



60 TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

331. CONSOMME CELESTINE (CLEAR SOUP WITH PANCAKE). 



1 quart chicken consomme. 

1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 

2 yolks and 1 white of egg. 



\ gill milk. I gill tomato puree. 



2 ozs. flour, 
seasoning. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon and chervil. 



Make a batter with the flour, eggs, milk, and tomato puree ; beat well, and then 
add the chopped ingredients and the cheese. Fry some thin pancakes with this ; 
cut them into very thin strips, put them into a soup-tureen, and pour the soup over. 
It is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for -5 or 6 persons. 

332. CONSOMME CHRISTOPHE COLOMB (CLEAR SOUP WITH DICE OF 

CUSTARD). 



1 quart consomme. 
4 eggs. 



1 gill tomato puree. 1 gill cooked green peas. 

1 gill cream. 



seasonmg. 

Put two eggs into a basin, and beat them ; add to them the tomato puree ; season 
to taste. Put this mixture into a buttered timbale mould. Beat the other two 
eggs in another basin ; add the cream and seasoning to them. Pour this into another 
small buttered timbale mould. Place both these in a steamer ; cover them Avith a 
buttered paper, and steam gently for about fifteen minutes, until they are firm. 
When cooked, turn out the steamed custards ; slice them, cut in dice, and place 
them in a soup-tureen with the green peas. Pour the hot soup over, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

333. CONSOMME A LA COMTESSE (CLEAR SOUP COUNTESS STYLE). 



1 quart consomme. 
1 oz. cooked chicken. 



2 eggs. I seasoning. a few drops essence of 

almonds. 



1 gill milk or cream. | 1 gill asparagus-tips. 

Rub the chicken through a wire sieve ; after it has been well pomided in a mortar, 
put it in a basin, and mix to it the well-beaten eggs and the milk or cream ; season 
^vith pepper and salt, and the almond essence. Butter some small timbale moulds ; 
fill them with this mixture ; cover them with a buttered paper, and steam until firm. 
Un mould when cold ; cut them in slices, and then in dice ; put into a soup-tureen 
with the cooked asparagus-tips, and pour the hot soup over. It is then ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from May to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

334. CONSOMME DEMIDOFF. 



1 quart chicken consomme 

(No. 320). 
1 tablespoonful dice of carrot. 



1 tablespoonful dice of turnip. 

1 tablespoonful cooked peas. 

2 truffles cut in dice. 



6 small cooked chicken que- 
nelles (Nos. 194 and 324). 
a pinch of chopped chervil. 



Cook the vegetables separately in salted water ; as soon as they are ready, place 
them in a soup-tureen with the truffies and quenelles. Pour the hot soup on them, 
and add the pinch of chervil ; the soup is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



335. CONSOMMfi DIPLOMATE. 



1 quart clear soup. 
^ small cucumber. 



2 tablespoonfuls tapioca. 



4 ozs. chicken forcemeat I 1 carrot. 
(No. 194). ' 1 turnip. 

Wash and peel the vegetables ; cut them in Julienne strips, and cook them sepa- 
rately in water seasoned with salt. Heat the soup in a saucepan. When boilixig, 
sprinkle in the crushed tapioca, and cook for fifteen minutes ; strain into a clean 
saucepan ; season nicely. Shape the forcemeat into a roll, the shape of a sausage , 
poach in boiling water or stock for fifteen minutes. Drain, and cut into thin 
rounds ; put these, with the vegetables, into the soup-tureen ; pour the hot soup 
over, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



POTAGES (SOUPS) 61 

336. CONSOMME A LA DUCHESSE (CLEAR SOUP DUCHESSE STYLE). 

1 quart chicken consomme (No. 320). | I oz. sago. | chicken fillets. 

Put the clear soup into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil ; then sprinkle in the 
sago, and boil for fifteen minutes. Cut the cooked chicken fillets into small dice, 
and serve in the soup as a garnish. 

Time required, 25 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

337. CONSOMME DUBARRY. 

1 quart consomm^ (No. .319). j k gill stock. ! cooked cauliflower. I J oz. rice. 

1 yolk of egg. I l whole egg. 6 sweet almonds. | salt and pepper. 

Blanch the almonds in cold water ; remove the skins, and cut into thin shreds. 
Beat up the eggs. Heat the | gill of stock ; pour on to the eggs ; season with pepper 
and salt, and mix in the shredded almonds. Butter some small dariole moulds ; 
pour in the custard ; cover with buttered paper, and steam gently for ten to fifteen 
minutes. Boil the rice in salted water ; drain it ; break the cauliflower in small 
sprigs. Put these and the rice in the soup-tureen. Turn out the moulds of custard, 
and cut into small dice ; place these also in the tureen. Heat up the consomme, 
and pour it over the garnish. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

338. CONSOMME A LA DUCLAIR (CLEAR SOUP DUCLAIR STYLE). 

^ gill Bechamel sauce. 



1 quart consomme. 

2 ozs. chicken (cooked). 



^ pint pancake batter. 

3 fillets of anchovy. seasonmg. 

Mince the chicken finely ; put it into a mortar with the anchovy fillets, and 
pound well together. Add the Bechamel sauce, and season to taste. Rub this 
mixture through a wire sieve. Fry some very thin pancakes ; turn them on to a 
plate ; then spread them on one side with the preparation, and put two together in 
the form of sandwiches ; cut them in the shape of lozenges. Put these in a soup- 
tureen, and pour the hot soup over. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



339. CONSOMME FERMIERE. 



1 quart consomm^. 
1 small carrot. 
1 leek. 



2 tablespoonfuls cabbage. 
2 ozs. butter. 
1 French roll. 



^ onion. 

1 small turnip. 

1 small potato. 

Mince the carrot, turnip, leek, and onion ; cut the cabbage and potato into 
Julienne strips. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the minced vegetables, and 
saute them a few minutes ; then add the consomme, the cabbage, and potato. 
Simmer gently until the vegetables are cooked ; skim well, taking off all fat. Cut 
the roll in very thin shces, and dry in the oven ; these are placed in a soup-tureen ; 
and when the soup is ready and nicely seasoned, pour it over, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



340. CONSOMME FLORADOR. 



1 quart consomme. 



1 tablespoonful florador j 1 yolk of egg. 
2 tablespoonfuls stock. (medium grain). ! salt and popper. 

Put the stock on the fire in a saucepan. When it boils, sprinkle in the florador. 
Cook for a few minutes, stirring all the time ; season with pepper and salt. Take 
off the fire, and let it cool ; then beat in the yolk of the egg. Make some very small 
quenelles, shaping them in small teaspoons ; poach these in salted water for about 
five minutes. When cooked, take up ; dram and place them in a soup-tureen, and 
pour the hot consomme on them. 

Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



62 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOR 



341. CONSOMME FLEURI. 



1 quart consomme 



a few French beans. 
2 or 3 lettuce-leavea. 



1 carrot. 
1 small turnip. ; 1 leek. ^ cucumber. 

After preparing the vegetables, cut them in Juhenne strips ; cook the vegetables 
separately in salted water ; drain, and put them, with the consomme, into a stew- 
pan. Season to taste, and simmer gently for five minutes. Pour into a soup- 
tureen, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable in the summer 
months. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

342. CONSOMME JULIENNE. 

2 quarts clear soup. 2 carrots. I 1 onion. 1 stick of celery. | a few beans. 2 ozs. butter. 

2 or 3 cabbage-leaves. 1 turnip. | 1 leek. sugar. | salt. 1 tablespoonful peas. 

Prepare the vegetables ; then cut the carrots, turnip, onion, leek, beans, and 
cabbage in Julienne strips (No. 323). Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
vegetables ; put over them a pinch of sugar. Cook a little, stirring them carefully 
meanwhile ; then add the clear soup. Simmer gently for thirty minutes. Before 
serving, add the peas, and season to taste. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



cayenne, 
salt. 



343. CONSOMME JACOBINS. 

li quarts consomme. ^ gill Bechamel sauce i ^ gill stock. I 2 yolks of eggs. 

^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). (No. 4), ' 2 whole eggs. ! 2 ozs. ham. 

Chop the ham finely, place in a mortar, with the tomato and Bechamel sauces, 
which must be thick. Pound these together, season with salt and cayenne pepper, 
rub through a fine sieve. Put into a basin, and mix in the stock, also the beaten eggs. 
Butter some small, plain moulds, fill with this mixture, cover with buttered paper, 
and steam gently for about fifteen minutes. Turn them out ; allow them to get cold, 
and then cut into dice or fancy shapes. Place them in a hot soup-tureen, heat up 
the consomme, and pour over the garnish. Serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minut>es. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

344. CONSOMME METTERNICH. 



2 quarts consomme. 
1 pheasant. 



4 artichoke bottoms. i 1 glass sherry. 

2 tomatoes. I seasoning. 

Roast the pheasant, until a nice brown, in a hot oven ; then put it into a saucepan 
with the clear soup, and simmer gently for one hour with the tomatoes. Take 
up the pheasant, cut o£f the fillets, and put the rest on one side, to use for other 
dishes. Cook the artichoke bottoms (or use the preserved ones in bottles) ; cut them 
in Julienne strips, also the fillets of the pheasant in the same way. Put both these 
garnishes into a soup-tureen. Make the clear soup hot ; add the sherry. Simmer 
for ten minutes ; then strain it on to the garnish in the tureen. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable October to 
February. Sufficient for 10 persons. 

345. CONSOMME MIKADO. 

2 quarts stock. I \ lb. shin of beef. 4 ozs. butter. bouquet ganii. 2 cloves. 

1 tablespoonful currj'. | 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice. 1 onion. 1 carrot. pepper, 

powder. I 4 ozs. lean veal. 2 whites of eggs, breast of chicken, salt. 

Melt 2 ozs. of the butter in a large sauceij;in ; put in the curry-powder, and fry 
a few minutes. Mince the beef finely ; whip the whites, and crush the shells of the 
eggs ; prepare the carrot and onion ; stick the cloves into the latter. Put these 
ingredients into the saucepan with the stock and the bouquet garni ; whisk it until 
it boils ; then simmer for twenty minutes. Take it off the fire, and let it stand for 



POTAGES {SOUPS) 63 

five minutes : pass through a cloth into a basin. Cut the veal and the breast of 
chicken into dice. Melt the remainder of the butter in a clean saucepan ; put in 
the meat and chicken, and fry until brown ; then add the soup. Simmer for twenty 
minutes ; skim well, and take off all fat. Season nicely, and add the boiled rice. 
The soup is now ready to serve. 

Average cost (without chicken), Is. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Sufhcient 
for 10 persons. 

346. CONSOMME MILLE FANTI. 

2 quarts clear soup. 1 oz. soft breadcrumbs. 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 

2 eggs. ! salt. cayenne. 

Mix the breadcrumbs and cheese together in a basin ; beat the eggs, and add 
them to the crumbs and cheese ; beat well, and season with salt and caj'^enne. Boil 
the clear soup, and drop the mixture, by means of a funnel, into the boiling con- 
somme ; stir with a whisk while doing so. Move the saucepan to the side of the 
fire ; put on the lid, and simmer gently for six or seven minutes. When ready to 
serve, stir the soup with a whisk, and pour it into a soup-tureen. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 persons. 

347. CONSOMME A LA MILANAISE (CLEAR SOUP MILAN STYLE). 



1 quart clear soup (consomme) 
1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
I oz. grated Gruyere cheese. 



seasoning. 1 egg and breadcrumbs. 

2 ozs. macaroni, j 1^ ozs. grated Parmesan 
1 yolk of egg. cheese. 



Cook the macaroni until tender ; drain it, and then cut into very small pieces. 
Heat the Bechamel sauce ; stir into it 1 oz. Parmesan cheese and the yolk of the 
egg. Cook a little ; then add the macaroni and seasoning. Spread this mixture 
on a plate, making it | inch thick. When cold, cut out the mixture with a round 
cutter, about the size of a shilling. Egg and breadcrumb these rounds, and fry 
a golden bro^^Tl in very hot fat. Drain, and send them, A\ith the soup, to table 
separately. ^lix | oz. Parmesan cheese and | oz. Gruyere cheese together, grated, 
and send to table at the same time. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

348. CONSOMME A LA MONACO (CLEAR SOUP MONACO STYLE). 



1 quart chicken consomme. ^ gill cooked green 

6 chicken quenelles. 



IJ ozs. arroA^Toot. 
1 carrot. 



1 turnip. 

2 trutlles. 



peas. 

Put the consomme into a saucepan, and bring to the boil ; then stir in the arrow- 
root, previously mixed with a little stock or water. Simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Prepare the vegetables ; scoop out the carrot and turnip with a vegetable-cutter 
the size of peas ; cut the truffles in dice, and shape the chicken quenelles from chicken 
forcemeat (No. 202) in small teaspoons. Cook the vegetables in some consomme, 
and poach the quenelles. Put this garnish all together into a soup-tureen ; pour the 
thickened soup on it, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

349. CONSOMME A LA NESSELRODE (CLEAR SOUP 
NESSELRODE STYLE). 

1 quart clear soup I 2 tablespoonfuls Julienne , ^ gill puree of chestnuts. ^ gill cream, 
(game, No. 315). ' of game fillets. I 1 whole egg and 1 yolk. salt and cayenne. 

Prepare the consomme with any kind of game ; cut some of the fillets into Juli- 
enne strips, and reserve. Roast the chestnuts in the oven until the shell and inner 
skin can be removed easily ; then put them into a saucepan, cover with stock, and 
boil them mitil tender. Rub through a wire sieve. Beat up the eggs ; add to them 
the cream and seasoning ; stir in the puree of chestnuts ; mix well. Turn this 
mixture into a well-buttered small timbale or dariolo mould, anrf steam for ten to 
PT. I. ''» 



64 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

fifteen minutes, or until the mixture is firm. Turn it out, and, when cold, cut into 
dice or fancy shapes. Place these, with the Julienne of game, into a soup-tureen, 
and pour the hot soup over it. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable November to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

350. CONSOMME NOUVEAU REGNE. 
1 quart clear soup (chicken). | \ lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). | gold-loaf. | \ gill aspic jelly 

Melt the aspic jelly, and when it is beginning to set, break into it two or three 
leaves of gold-leaf ; the jelly should be quite thick with it. Let this get firm ; then 
cut it into large cubes. Make some quenelles in dessert-spoons, and place in the 
centre of each one or more of the gold-leaf cubes. Poach the quenelles for ten 
minutes in boiling water or stock. Drain them, and place them in a soup-tureen ; 
pour the hot soup on them, and serve. The quenelles should be made large, so that 
it is necessary for the diners to cut them with a spoon, in order that the gold 
sparkles may run out into the soup, and give a pretty effect. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

351. CONSOMME PANNEQUETS PRINTANIERS (CLEAR SOUP WITH 

PANCAKES). 



2 quarts clear soup. 
6 small pancakes. 



2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot. 
Seasoning. 



2 ozs. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). 

3 tablespoonfuls cooked vegetables. 

Boil the clear soup, and, when boiling, stir in the arrowroot mixed with cold water. 
Let. the soup simmer for ten minutes ; then pass it through a fine sieve, and keep 
hot. Make the pancakes, small, without sugar, the size of a dessert-plate, and as 
thin as possible. Cut the vegetables, any kind that are in season, into small dice ; 
brown them shghtly in butter ; add some stock, and cook until tender. Strain 
them, and mix with the chicken forcemeat. Cover one side of each pancake with 
this mixture ; roll them up, Avrap in buttered paper, tie with thin string, and poach 
in boihng water for ten minutes. Then drain them, cut in small rounds, and place 
them in the soup-tureen ; pour the boiling soup over. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 46 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 10 persons. 

352. CONSOMME PRINTANIER ROYALE (SPRING SOUP WITH ROYAL 

CUSTARD). 

1 quart clear soup. 1 tablespoonful cooked French beans. I 1 tablespoonful cooked lettuce, 

royal custard (No. 321). 1 tablespoonful cooked asparagus-heads. | 1 tablespoonful cooked peas. 

Cook the vegetables separately in salted water ; the beans should be cut in dice, 
and the lettuce shredded. Put the vegetables and the custard, cut in fancy shapes, 
in a soup-tureen. Boil the consomme, and pour it over the garnish. The soup is 
then ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable in summer months. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

353. CONSOMME PRINTANIER A LA COLBERT (SPRING SOUP 

COLBERT STYLE). 

1 quart clear soup. 1 tablespoonful cooked 1 tablespoonful cooked green peas. 

6 poached eggs. asparagus -heads. 1 tablespoonful cooked French beans. 

Heat the soup ; put the cooked vegetables into a soup-tureen ; pour the boiling 
Boup on them. VVhen about to serve, add the poached eggs, one for each 
person. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable in summer. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



POT AGES {SOUPS) 65 

354. CONSOMME A LA PRINCESSE. 

1 quart clear soup. I 1 tablespoonful cooked 1 tablespoonful pearl barley. 

1 chicken fillet, cooked. | asparagus-points. 1 tablespoonful cooked green peas. 

Wash the barley ; heat up the soup, and, when boihng, add the barley, and boil 
until tender. Cut the chicken fillet into small dice ; put these, A\-ith the vegetables, 
into the soup-tureen ; pour the boiling soup over, and serve. 

Average cost (without chicken), 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 
6 persons. 

355. CONSOMME PORTUGAISE.. 

1 quart clear soup. dice of fried j | oz. butter. I 1 leek. 

12 French plums. bread. | salt. 1 cayenne. 

Wash the plums ; put them into a saucepan, with enough cold water to cover ; 
add a pinch of salt, let them come to the boil, then drain them. Return to the sauce- 
pan ; cover with stock, and simmer till tender. Clean the leek ; cut in Julienne strips 
1 inch long. Melt the butter ; when hot, put in the strips of leek. Stew them in it 
for a few minutes ; then add some clear stock, and cook until tender. Carefully 
remove all fat ; then add the quart of consomme ; make quite hot. Put the plums 
into a souji-tureen ; add a pinch of cayenne ; pour the soup over, and serve. Send 
the dice of fried bread to table separately. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

356. CONSOMME AUX QUEUES DE BCEUF (CLEAR OX-TAIL SOUP). 



1 ox-tail. 
1 carrot. 



8 peppercorns. 



i lb. shin of beef. 



2 onions. 1 4 quarts stock (No. 313). 

1 turnip, i bouquet garni. 2 ozs. butter. 2 whites of eggs. 

Cut the ox-tail into joints ; put these into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and 
bring to the boil. Drain them, and wipe the pieces in a cloth. Melt the butter in a 
large saucepan. Cut the vegetables in slices ; put them into the butter with the 
pieces of ox-tail ; fry brown. Pour away the butter ; add the stock, the bouquet 
garni, and the peppercorns. Bring to the boil ; then draw it to one side of the fire, 
and allow it to simmer gently for five hours, skimming it well during that time. 
Strain the stock, which will have reduced to about 2| quarts. Let it get cold ; 
then remove the grease. Put the tail on one side for future use. Now pour the 
stock into a clean saucepan ; mince the shin of beef finely ; add this to the stock, 
and the whites of eggs, beaten stiffly. Whisk this until it boils ; let it simmer gently 
for half an hour, then strain through a fine cloth into a soup-tureen ; add to it the 
smaller sections of the tail, also some cooked carrot and turnip, cut in dice, and a 
few peas. The soup is then readv to serve. Sherry can be added to this soup if 
liked. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time to prepare and cook the ox-tail stock, 5 hours. 
Time to clarify the stock, 1 hour. Sufficient for 10 persons. 

357. CONSOMME RENAISSANCE. 

1 quart chicken consomme, i 1 gill cooked spinach. I ^ oz. butter. | 1 turnip. 
1 tablespoonful cream. ! 1 tablespoonful peas. ' 1 carrot. | 2 eggs. 

Sieve the spinach after it has been cooked and drained. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan ; stir in the spinach ; add the cream and the beaten eggs ; season to taste 
with pepper and salt. Fill some well-buttered small timbale moulds with this 
mixture, and steam them for fifteen minutes ; then turn them out, and cut them m 
dice shapes. Prepare the carrot and turnip ; then cut them in dice ; cook 
separately in salted water. Drain them as soon as tender, and put into a soup- 
tureen with the dice of spinach and the cooked peas. Pour in the hot soup, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

5—2 



66 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



358. CONSOMME RAMBOULE. 



1 quart clear soup. 



\ lb. chicken forcemeat. 



1 yolk of egg. 

1 gill cooked peas and beans. 

INIix the yolk of egg with the forcemeat ; butter some small timbale moulds, and 
fill them \Adth the mixture. Cover with buttered paper, and steam for fifteen 
minutes. Turn them out when cool ; cut into slices, and then into small rounds. 
Put these vnth the peas and beans, the latter to be cut in diamond shapes, into a 
Boup-tureen. Pour the hot soup on them, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

359. CONSOMME A LA RICHELIEU. 

1 quart clear soup. I 1 small carrot. ^ oz. butter. 

10 chicken quenelles (No. 202). I 1 turnip. | gill of well-reduced chicken jelly. 

Chop the jelly. Make some quenelles in egg-spoons ; in the centre of each put 
some of the chopped jelly, so that there will be a liquid centre. Poach the quenelles 
in boiling water or stock. Scrape the carrot, peel the turnip, and cut them into 
fine Julierme strips. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; put into it the Juhenne 
strips ; stew a few minutes ; then add some stock to them, and cook until tender. 
Drain, and put them with the quenelles into the soup-tureen, and pour the 
soup over. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

360. CONSOMME A LA ROYALE (CLEAR SOUP ROYAL STYLE). 



1 quart clear soup. I 2 yolks of eggs. 
1 whole egg. ! 1 gill stock. 



pepper, 
salt. 



Beat the eggs ; add the gill of stock to them , season with, pepper and salt, and 
fill with it some small buttered moulds. Steam them for fifteen minutes, or until 
firm. When cool, turn out ; cut into slices about \ inch thick ; stamp out with fancy 
cutters, or cut in dice. Put these into a soup-tureen, pour over the clear soup, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



361. CONSOMME SEVIGNE. 



1 oz. butter. 



1 quart chicken consomme. 1 gill cooked peas. 

10 chicken quenelles (Nos. 202 and . "^24). 1 lettuce. 1 gill stock. 

Shred the lettuce into fine strips. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the 
lettuce, and cook a few minutes ; then add the stock, and simmer for ten minutes. 
Drain, and place in the soup-tureen with the quenelles, made very small, and the 
peas. Pour the soup over the garnish, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



362. CONSOMME SOUVERAINE. 



2 quarts chicken consomme. 
a small piece of celery. 
1 gill cooked peas. 



10 large quenelles (Nos. 202 and 324). 
^ pint stock. 
1 oz. butter. 



\ carrot. 
I onion. 
I turnip. 



Cut the red part of the carrot, the onion, turnip, and celery, into very smal] 
dice ; stew these in the butter for five minutes ; then add the stock, and cook imtil 
the vegetn,bles are tender. Drain well. Make the quenelles in dessert-spoons, and 
put in the centre some of the vegetables. Poach in boiling water or stock for ten 
minutes. Put them in the soup-tureen with the cooked peas ; pour the hot con- 
somme on them, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



POTAGES (SOUPS) 67 

363. CONSOMME A LA TOMATE (CLEAR TOMATO SOUP). 

2 lbs. ripe tomatoes, i 3 pints good stock. 1 turnip. t 2 whites of eggs. 

h lb. lean beef. | 1 onion. 6 peppercorns, i bouquet garni. 

Cut the tomatoes in quarters ; also the rest of the vegetables, prepared and cut 
in quarters. Put these into a saucepan ; add the bouquet garni, peppercorns, and 
stock free from fat. Mince the beef finely ; mix with it ^ gill of cold water. Put this 
with the vegetables. Whip the whites of the eggs, crush the shells, and add to the 
rest of the ingredients in the saucepan. Whisk over the fire until it boils ; let 
it simmer for thirty minutes ; then strain the soup through a cloth. Return the 
soup to the saucepan ; reheat ; season to taste with salt ; dissolve in it one lump 
of loaf sugar, and it is ready to serve. If Hked, some dice-shaped shces of tomato, 
free from skin and pips, may be added to the soup. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 9 persons. 

364. CONSOMME A LA TOSCA (CLEAR SOUP TOSCA STYLE). 

1 quart chicken consomme. [ 1 oz. sago. i 2 ozs. beef tongue. | 2 truffles. 
Thicken the consomme with the sago ; cut the ox-tongue and truffles into Juli- 
enne strips. Put them into a soup-tureen, pour the hot consomme on them, and serve. 
Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

365. CONSOMME TORTUE-FAUSSE (CLEAR MOCK TURTLE). 

I calf's head. 1 glass sherry. j 1 lb. shin of beef. a bouquet garni. 

1 carrot. a piece of celery. 3 whites of eggs and 12 peppercorns. 

1 onioa. 4 quarts white stock. shells. salt. 

Bone the head, cut the meat in pieces, and chop the bones. Put these into a 
large saucepan ; add the stock to them ; bring it to the boil ; then skim well. Let 
it simmer for three hours. Strain the stock into a basin, and let it get cold ; then 
remove all the fat. Prepare the vegetables ; cut them in slices ; put into a saucepan 
^vith the stock. Mince the beef finely, and mix with it a tablespoonful of cold water. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs, and crush the shells ; put all these into the saucepan 
with the stock ; whisk all together over the fire until boiling. Draw on one side, and 
simmer gently for twenty minutes ; add the wine and seasoning, and cook for five 
minutes longer. Strain through a cloth, reheat, and it is ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 5 hours. Sufficient for 12 ] ersons. 

366. CONSOMME AUX VERMICELLES (CLEAR SOUP WITH VERMICELLI). 

1 quart clear soup. | ^ oz. vermicelli. 

Boil the vermicelli in water, seasoned with salt, until cooked. Drain well, and 
put it into a saucepan with the stock ; bring to the boil, and serve. 
Time required, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

367. CONSOMME A LA TRIANON. 

1 quart clear soup. i gi" tomato sauce (No. I 2 eggs. I 2 yolks of eggs. 

1 gill stock. 77). I 1 tablespoonful spinach. | seasoning. 

Beat the eggs and yolks together ; divide them equally into three basins. Into 
one portion stir half the stock ; into the second, the tomato puree ; and into the tliird, 
the remainder of the stock and the cooked and sieved spinach. Season all three 
colours nicely with pepper and salt. Butter three dariole moulds, and pour into 
them the three different mixtures — the yellow in one, the green in another, and the 
red in a third. Cover each with a small piece of buttered paper, and steam them 
gently for fifteen minutes. Let the custards stand till cold ; when cold, cut in dice 
or in fancy shapes ; put these into a soup-tureen, and pour the hot soup on them 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



68 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

368. CONSOMME VERT PRE. 

1 quart clear soup. J 1 tablespoonful peas. ! 1 tablespoonful asparagus- heads. 

2 tablespoonfuls tapioca, i 1 tablespoonful French beans. a few spinach-leaves. 

Boil the soup, sprinkle in the tapioca, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Cook 
the vegetables in salt water separately, the French beans to be cut up small. 
Slice the spinach-leaves finely, and cook in a little of the clear soup. When 
cooked, put these vegetables in a soup-tureen ; pour the hot soup on them, and 

serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the summer. 

Sufficient for 6 persons. 

369. CONSOMME A LA VIVIAN. 

1 quart clear soup. | I cucumber. | J lettuce (heart). | royal custard (No. 321). 

Peel the cucumber, take out the seeds, cut it into dice, and cook in salted water 
until tender. Cut the lettuce into strips, and boil in stock. Strain both these vege- 
tables, and put them into a soup- tureen. Prepare the custard ; let it get cold, 
then cut it in dice, and put them with the vegetables. Heat the soup, and pour 
it over the garnish in the tureen. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable February to 
October. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

370. CONSOMME A LA VENEUR. 



3 pints consomme, 
legg. 



1 dessertspoonful | cochineal. I 1 truffle, 
cream. j 1 lettuce. | tarragon. 



Mix the egg and cream together ; add a few drops of cochineal until a pretty 
pink colour. Butter some small plain moulds ; pour in the mixture, and steam gently 
For ten minutes ; then turn it out, and, when cold, cut into fine shreds ; also the 
truffle and some of the lettuce. Cook the shreds of lettuce in boiling stock for a few 
minutes ; take up, drain well, and place in the soup-tureen, together with the pink 
custard, truffle, and a few leaves of tarragon, also cut in shreds. Heat up the 
consomme, and pour over the garnish. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

371. TORTUE CLAIRE (CLEAR TURTLE SOUP). 



4 quarts stock. \ lb. sun-dried I 1 leek. 

a little celery. turtle. i 2 onions. 

1 carrot. 1 turnip. i bouquet garni. 



3 cloves. 

a blade of mace. 

12 peppercorns. 



\ lb. shin of beef. I 1 gill sherry. 

3 whites of eggs. I salt. 

J lemon. cayenne. 



Soak the turtle in cold water for three days ; change the water each day. Prepare 
the vegetables, put the spice and peppercorns into a piece of muslin, and tie up. 
Put the turtle, stock, vegetables, bouquet garni, and spice into a large saucepan ; 
bring to the boil, and skim well. Let it simmer gently for about eight hours or 
longer ; add more stock if necessary. Strain off the stock, remove the fat. Put the 
turtle aside to cool ; then, when cool enough, cut it into square pieces. Mince the 
beef finely ; whip the whites of the eggs, and add to the beef. Put these into the 
stock ; pour into a saucepan ; add the shells of the eggs and the lemon- juice. Let it 
come to the boil ; then simmer gently for one hour. Strain the soup through a cloth ; 
return to the saucepan, reheat, add the wine and the pieces of turtle, season Avith 
gait and cayenne, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. for the turtle. Time required, 4 days. Sufficient for 8 to 10 
persons. 



FGTAGES {SOUFJS) 69 



VEGETABLE AND PUREE SOUPS 

372. PUREE D'ASPERGES (ASPARAGUS SOUP). 

50 heads of asparagus. 1 pint white stock | 1 pint milk. 

1 gill cream or milk. (No. 314). I salt. 

Boil the asparragus in salted water until tender ; take them up, and drain care- 
fully. Put a few heads of the asparagus aside for garnish ; rub the rest of them 
through a hair sieve. Mix this puree with the white stock and milk, put into a sauce- 
pan, and allow it to get thoroughly hot. Stir in the cream, and season A\dth salt. 
Cut up the tips of asparagus that were put aside into dice ; put these into the soup, 
and serve. Care must be taken not to let the soup boil long after the asparagus is 
added, or the colour will be spoilt. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from May to 
August. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

373. PUREE DE BETTERAVE (BEETROOT SOUP). 

2 small cooked beetroots. | 1 oz. butter. { ^ gill cream. | salt. 

1 quart white stock (No. 314). 1 oz. flour. 1 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, i 1 onion. 

Peel and slice the onion. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and cook the onion in 
it without browning. Stir in the flour ; moisten with the stock, and stir until it boils ; 
season with salt. Peel the beetroots ; slice them rather thinly ; put into a basin, 
and cover with vinegar. Let this stand until the colour is extracted from the beet- 
root ; then put the beetroot and liquor into the thickened stock. Bring this to the 
boil, and let it simmer for ten minutes ; then strain through a hair sieve, rubbing 
through only as much beetroot as will be required to make the soup a good consis- 
tency. Return to the saucepan, stir in the cream, heat thoroughly without boiling, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 



IJ OZ8. butter, 
salt. 



374. POTAGE A LA CRECY (CARROT SOUP). 

6 large carrots. ! 1 pint milk. 1 quart white stock fried croutons of bread. 
1 large onion. I 1 gill cream. (No. 314). 2 sticks of celery. 

Scrape and wash the carrots ; take away all the yellow part, and use only the red ; 
cut this in slices, also the onion and celery. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
carrot, onion, and celery. Stir over the fire without browning ; add the stock, and 
simmer until the carrot is tender. Rub the soup through a hair sieve ; return to the 
saucepan, season with salt, add the milk and cream, heat thoroughly, and serve 
with fried croutons separately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

375. PUREE DE CHOUX-FLEURS (CAULIFLOWER SOUP). 



2 small cauliflowers. 



J pint milk. i gill cream. 

salt. 



1 pint white stock (No. 314). U ozs. ground rice. 

Trim the cauliflowers ; boil in salted water m the usual way ; take up, drain, and 
rub through a hair sieve, using some of the green as well as the flower. Mix the 
groimd rice with some of the milk ; put the rest into a saucepan, with the stock and 
one pint of the water the cauliflower was cooked in. When boiling, stir in the 
ground rice ; let the soup simmer gently for ten to fifteen minutes ; then add the 
cauhflower puree, the cream, and seasoning. Heat thoroughly without boihng. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from March to 
November. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



70 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

376. PUREE DE CELERI (CELERY SOUP). 

3 heads of white celery. i 1 small onion. I fried croutons of bread [ 1 pint milk. 

1 quart white stock (No. 314). i 1 oz. butter. ! (served separately). I i gill cream. 

Wash the celery ; cut up into small pieces, taking away the outside sticks ; peel 
and slice the onion. Melt the butter ; put in the celery and onion ; cook for a few 
minutes ; then pour on the stock and half of the milk. Boil until the celery is 
tender. Rub through a hair sieve ; return to tlie saucepan ; season with salt ; stir 
in the rest of the milk, also the cream. Heat up, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. In season from October to 
February. Sufficient for 7 persons. 

377. PUREE DE CHOUX DE BRUXELLES (BRUSSELS SPROUTS SOUP). 

I lb. brussels sprouts. | 1 quart white stock (No. 314). | | gill cream. | 1 oz. butter. | salt. 

Trim the sprouts ; boil in salted water until tender ; drain them carefully. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; add the sprouts. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, then 
moisten with the stock ; let this simmer for ton minutes. Rub through a hair sieve ; 
return to the saucepan, add the cream and salt, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from November to 
March. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

378. POTAGE CRESSONIERE (WATERCRESS SOUP). 



i lb. watercress. 
IJ ozs. batter. 



1 pint puree of pota- j 1^ pints white stock. 2 yolks of eggs 

toes. I 1 gill cream or milk. seasoning. 



Pick and chop the watercress. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add to it the water- 
cress, and cook for a few minutes ; then stir in the puree of potatoes ; mix together, 
dilute with the stock, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Pass through a hair sieve ; 
return to the saucepan, and reheat. Mix the yolks and cream, or milk, together ; 
add to the soup, and bring to the boil, but do not let it actually boil. Season to taste, 
and garnish the soup with some watercress-leaves which have been parboiled for 
three minutes. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

379. CR£;ME DE CHAMPIGNONS (MUSHROOM SOUP). 



2 onions. 

3 ozs. butter. 



^ lb. mush- 1 quart stock. 



rooms. 



2 ozs. flour. 
^ gill cream. 



2 egg-yolks, 
seasoning. 



i pint milk. 

Slice the onions ; clean and peel the mushrooms, and chop them finely. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; put in the vegetables, and cook for about five minutes ; 
add the flour ; dilute with the stock. Stir until boihng ; simmer for thirty minutes ; 
then add the boiling milk. Strain through a hair sieve ; return to the saucepan, add 
the cream and egg-yolks, bring to boiling-point, season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

380. PUREE DE CONCOMBRES (CUCUMBER SOUP). 

2 large cucumbers. j ^ pint milk. | 1 tablespoonful cream 1 oz. butter. 

1 quart stock (No. 314). I 3 yolks of eggs, j (if liked). salt. 

Peel the cucumber ; cut into slices. Molt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
cucumber, and stir over the fire, without browning, for a few minutes ; then add the 
stock, and let it simmer until the cucumber is tender. Rub through a hair sieve ; 
return to the saucepan, and season with salt. Beat the yolks in a basin ; stir in the 
milk and cream ; add these to the soup. Stir over the fire until the eggs are cooked, 
but it must not be allowed to boil. If the soup is found to be too thick, a little 
more stock must be added. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. In season from March to 
August. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



POTAGES (SOUPS) 71 

381. PUREE D'EPINARDS (SPINACH SOUP). 

1 lb. spinach. I 2 ozs. butter. j spinach coloaring. 

1 onion. i 1 quart stock. | 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Pick the spinach, and wash well in several waters until quite free from dirt and 
grit. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the spinach, also the onion peeled and 
sliced. Stir for a few minutes ; then moisten with the stock, and let it simmer until 
the spinach is tender. Rub through a hair sieve ; return to the saucepan, stir in the 
cream, and salt to taste. If not a good green colour, add a little spinach greening. 
Heat up. and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 



3 ozs. cooked chicken. | 1 cucumber. 
6 ozs. asparagus-points. 1 onion. 

4 ozs. button mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 



382. PUREE A LA FRANKFORT. 

1 oz. cooked ham. I 1 gill cream. 

1 quart stock. ! 2 egg-yolks. 

^ oz. ground rice. salt. 

Peel the cucumber, mushrooms, and onion ; cut them in slices. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan ; put in the sliced vegetables and the asparagus-points. Cook for ten 
minutes, but do not let them brown ; add the chicken and ham. Mix the ground 
rice with a little of the stock, and add the remainder to the vegetables ; stir in the 
rice, and cook for half an hour. Take out the chicken and ham ; pound these in a 
mortar until quite fine. Return to the saucepan, and mix well ; now rub all through 
a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, and reheat. Mix the eggs and cream to- 
gether ; strain into the soup, and cook, but do not boil again. Season to taste, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to July. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



IJ lbs. lettuces. 
2 ozs. butter. 
1 onion. 



1 quart white j ^ gill cream. 
stock. 2 egg-yolks. 

^ pint milk. | seasoning. 



3S8. PUREE DE LAITUES (LETTUCE SOUP), 

a few sprigs of chervil 

and parsley. 
2 ozs. flour. 

Slice the onion ; wash and dry the lettuce, and divide it into small pieces. Melt 
the butter ; put in the onion, lettuce, chervil, and parsley. Cook for a few minutes, 
stirring well all the time ; then add the flour. Mix into it the other ingredients ; 
add the stock, and stir until it boils. Let it simmer for twenty minutes. Strain 
through a fine sieve. Return to the saucepan, and add the milk ; let it come 
nearly to boiling-point ; draw it off the fire, and add the eggs and cream. 
Return to the fire to cook the eggs, but do not let it boil. Season to taste, 
and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 
persons. 



384. POTAGE DE LfiGUMES (VEGETABLE SOUP). 



I onion. 
1 carrot. 



1 leek. 



1 stalk of celery. U ozs. Hour. 1 pint milk. 



1 turnip. 1| ozs. butter. | 1^ pints of stock or water. 

Prepare the vegetables ; cut them into Julienne strips or into dice. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook them in it for a few minutes 
until the butter is absorbed ; then add the stock or water, and boil until the vege- 
tables are tender. Mix the flour and milk together in a basin, and add to the 
vegetables and stock ; stir until it boils. Simmer for ten minutes. Season to taste, 
and the soup is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Seasonable at all times. Time required, 45 minutes. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



72 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

385. PUREE DE MARRONS A LA CHANTILLY (CHESTNUT SOUP). 

2 pints of chestnuts. \ 2 ozs. butter. 1 | gill cream. croiitons. 

1 quart white stock. ! 1 quart milk. - 4 to 6 mushrooms. seasoning. 

Slit the chestnuts ; place them on a baking-sheet in the oven, until the shells 
and inner skin can be removed easily. Pound the chestnuts in a mortar. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan ; put in the chestnuts ; saute them for a few minutes without 
browning ; put m the milk and stock ; add the mushrooms, cut up finely. Simmer 
until the chestnuts are cooked, then rub through a wire sieve. Return the soup to 
the saucepan ; add the cream and seasoning. If too thick, stir in a little more milk 
or stock. Serve with fried croutons of bread, cut in dice. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable October to 
March. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



6 or 8 large turnips. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 quart wliite stock. 
1 gill cream. 



386. PUREE DE NAVETS (TURNIP SOUP). 

1 onion, j salt, 
pepper. I 

Peel the turnips and onion ; shce them, and put into a saucepan with the butter. 
Stir them over the fire for a few minutes without bro-wning, then dilute with the stock, 
and simmer gently for about thirt\ minutes. Rub through a fine sieve. Return the 
soup to the saucepan ; boil up, and skim well ; season nicely, and add the cream ; 
do not let it boil again after the cream is added. The soup is now ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



387. POTAGE A L'OSEILLE (SORREL SOUP). 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 gill cream. 



^ lb. picked sorrel- 



leaves. 



1 onion. i 1^ ozs. flour. 



seasonmg. 
croutons. 



2 yolks of eggs. | 1 quart stock. 

Wash the sorrel, then shred it finely ; slice the onion. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan ; put in the sorrel and onion, and cook for a few minutes ; then add the flour, 
dilute with the stock, and simmer until the sorrel is cooked. Skim well. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs ; add the cream to them, and stir into the soup ; season to taste. 
Stir until hot, but do not boil again. Fry some dice of bread ; put these into a soup- 
tureen ; pour the soup over, and serv^e. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in summer. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

388. POTAGE DE POIS A L'lTALIENNE (ITALIAN GREEN-PEA SOUP). 



1 pint shelled peas. 
^ lettuce. 



^ cucumber. 



2 ozs. butter. I 1 gill milk. 
1 quart stock. | ^ gill cream. 



1 onion. 

Cut up the cucumber and onion in small pieces ; shred the lettuce. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan ; put in the vegetables, and stir them until they have absorbed 
the butter ; then add the stock and the peas. Boil until the vegetables are tender, 
then rub through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan ; season nicely, and add the 
milk and cream. Reheat, but do not boil again. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the summer months 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

389. PUREE DE POMMES DE TERRE (POTATO SOUP). 

1 lb. potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. 

1 onion. 1 quart stock or water. seasoning. 

Peel the potatoes and onion ; cut them in shces ; put them into a saucepan con- 
taining the melted butter. Stir the vegetables over the fire for five minutes without 
browning ; then add the stock or water, and boil until the vegetables are tendei 
Rub the soup through a hair sieve. Put it back into the saucepan, and stir until 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 73 

smooth ; add the milk, and season to taste. When hot, it is ready to serve. Fried 
bread croutons, cut in dice, are often served with this soup. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Sufl&- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

390. PUREE DE POIRE AUX (LEEK SOUP). 



1 bunch of leeks. 1 quart white stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 croi'itons of fried bread. 



1^ ozs. flour. ^ gill cream 



1 gill milk. 



seasonmg. 



Wash the leeks thoroughly ; cut the white part into small pieces. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan ; put in the leeks, and cook for five minutes, stirring all the time ; 
do not allow them to brown. Stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until the leeks 
are cooked. Rub through a hair sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, reheat, add 
the cream and milk, season to taste, and serve. Croutons are sent up with this soup. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 
5 or 6 persons. 

391. PUREE DE TOMATES (TOMATO SOUP). 
1 pint tomato sauce (No. 77). | 1 quart clear soup, i 1 tablespoonful crushed tapioca. | seasoning. 

Boil the clear soup ; sprinkle in the crushed tapioca. Simmer for ten minutes, 
until the tapioca is transparent, stirring constantly. Heat the tomato sauce, add 
it to the soup, bring to the boil, season nicely, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

392. PUREE DE TOPINAMBOURS (SOUP OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES). 

1 small onion. 2 lbs. Jerusalem arti- 1 pint milk. seasoning. 

1 pint white stock. chokes. I 2 ozs. butter. 1 lemon. 

Wash, peel, and slice the artichokes. Alter shcing, put into a basin of water 
with the lemon-juice, to prevent them discolouring. Cut the onion in shces. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; drain the artichokes, and put them with the onion into the 
melted butter. Cook for five minutes, taking care not to let the vegetables brown. 
Add the stock, and boil until the artichokes are tender ; then rub through a hair 
sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, add the milk and seasoning, make it 
thoroughly hot, and it is ready to serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable October to February. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

393. PUREE DE POTIRONS (VEGETABLE -MARROW SOUP). 

1 vegetable marrow. 1 1 pint white j 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 

^ tcaspoonful sugar. \ stock. | J pint milk. salt. 

Peel the marrow, split in halves, remove the seeds, and cut it into slices. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; place in it the vegetable marrow and the onion, peeled 
and sliced. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes ; pour in the stock ; season with 
i^alt and sugar. Cover the pan with a Hd, and let it simmer gently until the marrow 
is tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, add the milk, and 
heat thoroughly. If too thick, stir in enough stock to make the soup a good con- 
sistency. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season July to September. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

394. PUR£E DE LfiGUMES (VEGETABLE SOUP). 



1 turnip. 2 ozs. rice. | 1 gill haricot beans, j 2 ozs. butter. 

1 carrot. 



1 oz. lean ham. 
salt. 



1 onion. I 1 gill spht peas. | 3 pints stock. 

Soak the peas and beans in cold water for twelve hours. Prepare the vegetables ; 

cut them in slices, also the ham. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the beans, 

])eas, rice, ham, and vegetables. Stir all this over the fire for a few minutes ; pour 



74 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

in the stock, and let it simmer until the vegetables are tender. Rub through a hair 
sieve. Return to the saucepan, season with salt, and add more stock, if too thick. 
Serve with fried bread croutons separately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 2 to 2^ hours. In season always. Sufiicient 
for 6 persons. 

395. PUREE DE POIS VERTS (GREEN-PEA SOUP). 

1 onion. I 1 pint shelled green I 1^ ozs. butter. ^ teaspoonful sugar. 

1 quart stock. peas. I 1 sprig mint. salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the onion, sliced, and f pint of the 
peas. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes ; moisten with the stock ; add 
the pepper, salt, sugar, and mint. Boil these together until the peas are tender. 
The remaining peas are boiled in salted water in the usual way, drained, and put 
aside until required. Rub the soup through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, 
heat thoroughl}/, add the boiled peas, and serve immediately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. In season June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

396. CREME DE LEGUMES (VEGETABLE SOUP). 

1 quart stock, j 1 carrot. I 1 leek. I dice of fried 2 ozs. butter. I 1 gill cream. 

1 celery-stalk. 1 onion. I 1 turnip. | bread. 1 oz. flour. | 2 egg-yolks. 

Cut up the vegetables in thin slices. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
vegetables, and cook for a few minutes ; then stir in the flour, and cook for five 
minutes without browning. Dilute with the stock, and cook for one hour ; then rub 
through a fine sieve. Season with salt and a little sugar ; bind with the cream and 
eggs. Serve with the fried dice of bread separately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, \\ hours. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



1 quart stock. 

2 ozs. butter, 
pinch of sugar. 



397. CREME A LA VENITIENNE (VENETIAN CREAM). 

2 raw artichoke bottoms. 1 oz. flour. 

^ pint cooked green peas. 1 gill cream. 

1 tablespoonful cooked spinach. salt. 

Slice the artichoke-bottoms finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
artichokes, and cook them over a slow fire. When done, add the peas and spinach ; 
stir in the flour, and cook a few minutes without browning. Moisten with the stock ; 
stir until it boils, and let it simmer for twenty minutes ; take off the scum, and pass 
the soup through a fine sieve. Return to the saucepan, and bind with the cream 
and eggs. Season to taste with salt and a pinch of sugar. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the summer. Sufii- 
cient for 6 persons. 

398. POTAGE MERCEDES. 



2 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes. 



1 gill cream. 



chicken fillets. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 pint white stock. ^ pint milk. 3 egg-yolks. 

Peel the artichokes, wash them in acidulated water, sHce them, and dry in a 
cloth. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the artichokes, squeeze over them a 
little lemon-juice, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, taking care not to brown- 
the vegetables ; add the stock, and cook until the artichokes are done ; then rub 
them through a fine sieve. Return to the saucepan ; add the milk and seasoning. 
When hot, but not boiling, put in the eggs and cream, previously mixed together ; 
stir over the fire for a few minutes in order to cook the eggs, but do not allow the 
soup to boil. Cut the cooked chicken fillets in dice, put them into a soup-tureen, and 
pour the soup on them. 

Average cost (without the chicken), Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 75 

399. PUREE A LA PARISIENNE. 



6 OZ8. butter. | 1 lettuce. I 3^ pints stock. 

2 onions. I 10 large potatoes. I 3 yolks of eggs. 



i pint cream or milk, 
a small bunch of herbs. 



Put 2 ozs. butter in a Scaucepan ; then add the onions and potatoes, sHced, also 
the herbs. Fry these until a pale golden colour. Moisten with 3 pints of stock ; let 
it come gentl}^ to the boil ; skim ; cover the pan, and allow it to simmer gently until 
the vegetables are cooked. Pass through a hair sieve. Return it to the saucepan ; 
season with, salt, and when it is hot add, for each quart of the puree, | pint of milk 
or cream mixed with three yolks of eggs, and 1 oz. of butter. Stir this over the 
fire until it thickens, without boiling. Pour into the tureen, and garnish with 
shredded lettuce as follows : Wash and dry the heart of a large lettuce ; cut it into 
verj' fine shreds, and fry in the remaining 2 ozs. of butter for ten minutes ; add to 
it I pint of stock. Simmer for fifteen minutes ; keep well skimmed, and add to the 
eoup. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



400. POTAGE A L'AURORE. 



4 ozs. pearl barley. 
2 quarts white stock, 
bouquet garni. 



stalk of celery. seasoning. 

1 onion. j 4 tablespoonfuls tomato puree. 

1 carrot. I 1 oz. butter. 



Wash the pearl barley ; then put it into a stewpan with the stock, the bouquet 
garni, onion, and carrot, and let it simmer for three hours, skimming well all the 
time. When the barley is cooked, add to it the tomato puree ; also the celery, 
chopped finely, and cooked in the butter, and finished in stock. If the soup should 
be too thick, make it the right consistency with stock. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 4 hours. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

401. POTAGE DES AMBASSADEURS (AMBASSADOR'S SOUP). 

^ pint puree of peas. 1 gill cream. 

1 gill cooked sorrel. seasoning. 

Cook the rice in the stock until tender, then add to it the puree of cooked 
peas. Simmer for ten minutes ; add the cream ; make very hot, but do not boil again. 
Season to taste. Before serving, add the sorrel-leaves finely shredded and tossed 
in butter. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. In season from June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



2 ozs. rice. 

3 pints chicken stock. 



402. POTAGE D'ARTOIS. 

2 quarts clear soup. a few cabbage-leaves. 



^ pint haricot beans. 
1^ ozs. butter. 
^ gill cream, 
seasoning. 



1 onion. 1 stalk of celery. 

1 carrot. a few string beans and 

1 turnip. green peas. 

Cut the carrot, turnip, onion, and celery into dice ; shred the cabbage-leaves 
and beans into fine strips. Melt 1 oz. of the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
vegetables, and stir them in the butter for a few minutes ; then add the soup, 
and simmer for thirty minutes. Cook the haricot beans, and, when soft, rub 
them through a wire sieve ; add enough stock to make them a thick puree. Add 
this to the vegetable soup ; bring to the boil, and cook gently for ten minutes. 
Take it off the fire, and allow it to cool slightly ; then stir in the cream and ^ oz. 
butter ; season to taste, and, lastly, add a few green peas. Pour into a soup- 
tureen, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Seasonable in the summer. Time required, 2 hours. Suffi- 
cient for 9 persons. 



76 THE WEAL COOKERY BOOK 

403. POTAGE ANDALOUSE (ANDALUSIAN SOUP). 
1 pint white stock. | 2 pints tomato puree. I 2 tablespoonfuls crusiied tapioca. 
Put the white stock into a saucepan on the fire, and when it boils sprinkle in the 
tapioca. Cook until tender and transparent ; now add to it the tomato puree ; 
bring to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. Season to taste, and serve. 
Average cost, Is. Gd. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1 quart chicken stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 



404. POTAGE CRITERION (CRITERION SOUP). 

1 gill cream. 



2 leeks. 

H ozs. flour. 



seasonmg. 

1 chicken fillet. 



1 stick of celery. 

pinch of chervil. 1 yolk of egg. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour add the stock, and stir until it 
boils. Shred the white parts of the leeks and celery in strips 1 inch long ; put these 
vegetables into a small stewpan, add to them about \ pint stock, and cook until 
tender ; then stir them on to the thickened stock. Take off all the fat and scum ; 
then add the egg-yolk mixed with the cream. Stir until nearly boiling ; season 
nicely, and add, just before serving, the cooked chicken fillet, cut in strips, and a 
pinch of chervil. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes after the stock is made. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

405. POTAGE CAMELIA (CAMELIA SOUP). 

1 quart puree of split peas. I 2 tablespoonfuls tapioca. I 1 oz. butter. 

1 quart consomme. | 2 tablespoonfuls shredded leeks. 1 2 tablespoonfuls breast of chicken. 

Heat the consomme in a saucepan over the fire. As soon as it boils, sprinkle in 
the crushed tapioca. Boil for ten minutes, or until the tapioca is cooked ; stir into 
this the puree of spht peas ; mix well together. Melt the butter in another sauce- 
pan ; put in the shredded leeks, white part only. Fry a little without browning ; 
add some stock or water, and cook until the leeks are tender ; drain them, and put 
into a soup-tureen with the shredded and cooked breast of chicken. Pour the soup 
on this garnish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d., without chicken, wliich should be used up for other dishes. Time 
required, 30 minutes after puree is prepared. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 
10 to 12 persons. 

406. POTAGE FONTANGE. 



1 quart fi'esh pea puree. 

2 tablespoonfuls sorrel -leaves. 



2 ozs. butter. 1 gill cream. I seasoning. 

chervil. 1 yolk of egg. I croutons of fried bread. 

Prepare the pea puree, and dilute it with stock until it is of the right consistency. 
Shoe the sorrel-leaves finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir ]n the sorrel, and 
cook for ten minutes ; add this to the soup with a pinch of chervil. Mix the egg-yolk 
and cream together, and stir into the soup ; make very hot, but do not let it boil 
again after the egg is added. Season to t»ate, and serve with the croutons separately. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, t5 minutes. Seasonable, June to August- 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

407. POTAGE LEOPOLD (LEOPOLD SOUP). 



1 quart consomme. 

I tablespoonful florador. 



2 tablespoonfuls sorrel. 2 ozs. butter. I 1 egg-yolk. 

1 gill cream. I seasoning. 



chervil. 

Heat the consomme in a saucepan over the fire. As soon as it boils, sprinkle in 
the florador, and cook for fifteen minutes. Shred the sorrel-leaves finely. Melt the 
butter in a ste^vpan, put in the sorrel, and cook for ten minutes, stirring it constantly, 
so that it does not burn ; add to the soup also a pinch of chervil. Mix together the 
egg-yolk and cream ; stir into the soup ; make hot, but do not boil. Season to taste, 
and serve with fried croutons, served separately. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable in summer. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 77 



2 quarts stock. 
i pint split peas. 
i carrot. 



^ gill cream. 

seasoning. 

croutons of fried bread. 



408. POTAGE FAUBONNE. 

J onion. j 2 tablespoonfuls cooked 

1 stick celery. ! . green jieas. 
1 bouquet garni, i 2 ozs. butter. 

Soak the split peas overnight. Melt 1 oz. butter in a saucepan ; put in the peas , 
cook a little ; dilute with 2 quarts of water ; simmer for about three hours, or until 
the peas are soft enough to pass through a wire sieve Cut the carrot, onion, and 
celery into Julienne strips. Melt the remaining 1 oz. butter in another saucepan ; 
put in the shredded vegetables ; cook for about five minutes, then add the stock and 
the bouquet garni ; cook gently for half an hour. Take out the bouquet ; add the 
puree of spht peas, seasoning, and cream ; mix all well together ; cook a little longer 
\Wthout boihng. Put the cooked green peas and the fried croutons in a soup-tureen, 
and pour the soup on them ; or, if preferred, the croutons can be sent up separately. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



409. POTAGE A LA BONNE FEMME. 



2 leaves sorrel. 
2 sprigs tarragon. 
2 sprigs chervil. 



small piece cucum- 
ber. 
1 French roll. 



1 quart white I 1 lettuce. 

stock. I 2 leeks. 

3 yolks of eggs. salt. 



1 small potato. 

2 ozs. butter. 
1 gill cream. 

Wash the lettuce, leeks, and sorrel ; shred them finely ; also the tarragon, chervil, 
and cucumber. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; add these vegetables, and stir over 
the fire without browning ; add the stock and the potato cut in small rounds. Let 
this simmer until the vegetables are tender. Beat the yolks of eggs ; add the cream 
to it, and stir into the soup ; cook over the fire until it thickens without boiling. Cut 
the roll into small rounds ; dry in the oven for a few minutes ; then place them in the 
soup-tureen, and pour the soup over. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. In season from February to 
September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

410. PUREE A LA BRETONNE (HARICOT-BEAN SOUP). 

2 ozs. ham. i ^ pint haricot I 2 ozs. butter. 1 gill milk. 



2 onions. | beans. | 2 quarts stock. 



salt. 



Soak the beans in water for twelve hours. Peel the onion, cut into slices. Molt 
the butter ; put in the onions, haricots, and the ham, cut in small pieces. Cook 
these in the butter for a few minutes ; add the stock ; let it come to the boil and 
simmer until the beans are tender. Rub through a fme sieve ; return to the sauce- 
pan, season with salt, stir in the milk, heat thoroughly, and serve. If the soup is too 
thick, add more stock until of the right consistency. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2 hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 

411. POTAGE A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

1 quart chicken | 4 yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. I 1 gill cooked carrot. I 1 gill cooked French 
stock. 1 oz. flour. j seasoning. 1 gill cooked cucumber, i beans. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 gill milk. | 1 gill cooked peas. I i teaspoonful tarragon. ' J teaspoonful parsley. 

Cut the carrot and cucumber to the shape of peas with a vegetable-scoop, the 
beans to the shape of dice. Cook all these vegetables in boiling water separately ; 
add a little salt to them while cooking. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; mix in the 
flour, add the stock, and stir until it boils ; simmer for ten minutes, and remove the 
scum. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin ; add to them the cream and milk ; cook 
for a few minutes, but do not let the soup boil again. Now put the cooked vege- 
tables into the soup, and, lastly, just before serving, the chopped tarragon and 
parsley ; season to taste with salt and a little sugar. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



78 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

412. POTAGE A LA PLUCHE. 

1 lb. potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk, seasoning. 1 1 teaspoonful tarragon, 

1 onion. 1 quart stock or water. 2 carrots. ■ 1 gill cream. chervil, and parsley. 

Cut the potatoes and onion into slices. Melt the butter, put in the vegetables, 
and cook for a few minutes without browning ; add the stock or water, and boil until 
the vegetables are tender ; then rub through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan ; 
stir until smooth ; add the milk and cream, and bring to boiling-point, but do not 
allow it to boil again. Mince the red parts of the carrots finely, saute it in butter, 
add some stock or Avater, and cook till tender ; add this to the soup just before 
serving, together with the chopped herbs. Season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time to prepare, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 

6 persons 

413. POTAGE REGENCE. 

1 quart chicken stock. j eeasoning. 2 tablespoonfuls mixed vegetables. 

12 small chicken quenelles. i 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. 

1 tablespoonful cooked pearl barley. ! 1 gill cream. 1 oz. flour. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir until it 
boils ; let it cook gently for ten minutes. Cook the pearl barley, and add to the 
soup. Put the quenelles and vegetables into a soup-tureen. Before serving, mix 
the cream and eggs together ; add to the soup ; bring to boiling-point, but do not 
let it actually boil. Pour on the garnish in the tureen, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

414. POTAGE A LA ST. GERMAIN (ST. GERMAIN SOUP). 



1 pint green peas. 
1 quart stock. 



1 oz. butter. 



2 yolks of eggs. 



\ onion. 

a sprig of mint. ^ lettuce. 1 gill milk. 

Cook the peas in boiling water with a little salt and mint ; when they are tender, 
rub them through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the sliced 
onion ; cook for a few minutes, then add the puree of peas and the stock ; bring to 
the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan. Mix the eggs 
with the milk. Strain into the soup, and cook the eggs for a few minutes without 
boiling. Cut the lettuce in very fine Julierme strips, saute them in butter for a few 
minutes, then add some stock, and cook until tender. Add this garnish to the 
soup just before serving. Croutons of fried bread can be handed romid with this 
Boup. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

415. POTAGE DE PIEDS DE VEAU (CALF'S-FEET SOUP). 

2 calf's feet. I | head celery. 2 ozs. butter. 1 2 ozs. flour. 

3 quarts white stock. | bouquet garni. 1 gill of cream. I pepper and salt. 

Cut the feet into six pieces each ; put them into a saucepan with the celer^^ onion, 
and bouquet garni ; add the stock, and simmer gently for three hours ; then strain 
off the stock. Cut some of the meat from the feet into dice. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan ; stir in the flour ; cook for a few minutes, then add the stock ; stir until 
it boils. Simmer for ten minutes ; add the cream and seasoning. Put the dice of 
meat into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 4 hours. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 



79 



416. POTAGE DE SANT£ (HEALTH SOUP). 



2 tableepoonfuls shredded 

cabbage. 
1 tablespoonful sorrel -leaves. 



f lb. potatoes. 

1 quart white stock. 

a few leaves of chervil. 



1 small onion. ^ gill cream. 

2 egg-yolks. 2 ozs. butter. 
1 gill milk. seasoning. 

Peel the potatoes and onion, and cut them in sHces. Melt half the butter in a 
saucepan, put in the vegetables, and fry them for a few minutes without browning ; 
then add the stock, and boil imtil the potatoes are tender, rub them through a fine 
sieve. Return this puree to the saucepan, and reheat. Slice the cabbage into fine 
shreds ; also the sorrel-leaves. Saute these in the remainder of the butter, add to 
them 1 gill of stock, and cook mitil tender. Add this to the potato puree, mix the 
egg-yolks with the milk, stir into the soup, and cook a few minutes without boiling ; 
then add the cream, chervil-leaves, and seasoning. The soup is then ready to 
serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the summer. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 leek. 

J small carrot. 



J onion. 

2 OZ6. butter. 



417. POTAGE SOLFERINO. 

2 tomatoes. [ 2 tablespoonful peas. 1 quart stock, 

chervil-leaves. | seasoning. 2 potatoes. 

Mince the vegetables finely, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the vegetables, 
and cook over the fire for ten minutes, stirring constantly . then add the stock. 
Peel the tomatoes, press out the seeds, cut them in pieces, and add to the other 
ingredients. Cook gently until the vegetables are tender. Pass the soup through 
a liair sieve with the vegetables, return to the saucepan, season nicely, and if too 
thick, add some more stock until it is the right consistency. Lastly, add the cooked 
peas and chervil. The soup is then ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. In season always, if peas are 
omitted. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



J lb. potatoes. 
3 oas. butt«r. 



418. 

2 tablespoonfuls spinach-leaves 
1 quart whit« stock. 



POTAGE SUEDOIS (SWEDISH SOUP) 

1 onioH. 

pinch of chervil. 



aeasonmg. 
1 gill milk. 



2 egg-yolks. 
^ gill cream. 



Peel the potatoes and onion, and cut them in shces. Melt 1 ounce of butter in 
a saucepan, put in the vegetables, and fry them for a few minutes, taking care not 
to let them brown. Add the stock, and boil until the vegetables are tender ; then 
rub through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, and reheat. Slice the spinach- 
leaves finely, melt the remaining 2 ounces of butter in a steu-pan, put in the spinach, 
and cook until tender. When the soup is hot, stir in the milk, mix the egg-yolks 
and cream together, and add it to the soup. Stir until the liaison is formed, but do 
not boil. Season nicely, add the spinach, and the soup is ready to serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



1 gill cream. 

fried or toasted dice of bread. 

grated cheese. 



419. POTAGE SUISSE (SWISS SOUP). 

2 carrots. 1 leek. I 2 ozs. butter. 

1 turnip. 1 stick celery. i 2 quarts stock. 

1 onion. 1 lettuce (heart). 3 egg-yolks. 

Slice the vegetables into tliin rounds, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the 
vegetables, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes ; then add the stock, and 
simmer for half an hour. Mix the egg-yolks and cream together, stir into the soup, 
and let bind, but do not let it boil again. Season to taste, and send up to table 
with it a plate of grated cheese and one of fried dice of bread. 

Average cost, la. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 8 or 9 persons. 

PT. II. 6 



80 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

420. POTAGE VELOURS (VELVET SOUP). 
1 jrint consomm^. ( 1 tablespoonful tapioca. | 1 pint puree of carrots. | 1 gill cream. | seasoning. 

Heat the consomme ; when boihng, stir in the crushed tapioca, and cook mitil 
tender — about ten minutes. Add to this the puree of carrots, and make quite hot. 
If the soup is too thick, add some consomme to it — sufficient to make it the right 
consistency. Season with salt and pepper, and, lastly, stir in the cream. Make 
quite hot, but do not let the soup boil after the cream is added. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

421. POTAGE A LA WINDSOR (WINDSOR SOUP). 

2 ozs. flour. 1 onion. 

^ lb. lean mutton. 1 carrot. 

2 ozs. boiled rice. seasoning. 

Cut up the meat in small pieces, scrape the carrot, peel the onion, and shce them 
finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put the meat and vegetables into it, and 
fry a nice brown. Add the flour, cook it for a few minutes, then moisten with the 
stock, and stir until it boils. Simmer for one hour, then pass it through a fine 
sieve. Return to the saucepan, and reheat. Season to taste with salt and pepper, 
add the boiled rice as a garnish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 to 8 persons. 

POULTRY, MEAT, AND GAME SOUPS 

422. CREME A LA BAYONNE (HAM SOUP). 



2 quarts brown stock. 
2 ozs. butter. 
J lb. shin of beef. 



^ lb. cooked ham. 1 oz. flour. 1 quart stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 large onion. 



\ pint espagnole sauce (No. 33). \ gill sherry. 1 gill cream. 

Slice the onion, melt the butter in a saucepan, fry the onion without colouring ; 
then add the flour, and fry a pale brown. Moisten with the stock, and stir until 
it boils. Simmer for about thirty minutes, then pass the soup through a hair sieve. 
Return to the saucepan, and add to it the well-pounded and sieved ham, the espag- 
nole sauce, and the sherry. Cook for ten minutes longer. Draw away from the 
fire, add the cream, season to taste, and serve. Fried croutons of dice of bread 
should be handed round separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 

423. POTAGE AU RIZ (RICE SOUP). 
1 quart white stock. | 1 gill cream. | 2 ozs. ground rice. | 1 onion. | salt. ] 1 oz. butter. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, shce the onion, and fry it in the butter without 
colouring ; then add the stock, boil up, and skim well. Mix the rice with a little 
stock, add to the boiling stock, stir, and boil for ten minutes. Season, and add the 
cream. Strain and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

424. POTAGE AU TAPIOCA (TAPIOCA SOUP). 

1 quart chicken stock. | 3 yolks of eggs. | 2 ozs. crushed tapioca. | 1 gill milk. ] salt. 

Put the stock in a saucepan, place it on the fire, and bring to the boil ; then 
sprinkle in the crushed tapioca, cook for fifteen to twenty minutes. Beat the 
yolks of eggs in a basin, add the milk to them, mix well, and stir into the soup 
when just off boiling-point. Stir carefully over the fire until the eggs are cooked. 
The soup must not boil, or the eggs will curdle. Season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost, 5d., exclusive of stock. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 



POTAGES (SOUPS) 



81 



1 quart chicken stock. 

2 yolks of eggs. 



425. POTAGE A LA ROYALE. 

H ozs. cooked macaroni. 
1 gill cream. 



1 oz. grated Parmesan 
cheese. 



seasonmg. 
1 oz. butter. 



Melt the butter, cut up the cooked macaroni into pieces about ^ inch in length, 
put them into the butter, and stir for a few minutes ; then add the stock, bring to 
the boil, skim well, and simmer for ten minutes. IVIix the yolks of eggs and cream 
together in a basin, let the soup go off the boil, then add the eggs and cream. Cook 
without letting them boil, or the eggs will curdle. Stir in the grated cheese, and 
season to taste. The soup is now ready to serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



426. POTAGE A LA REINE (CHICKEN SOUP). 



1 chicken. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 

2 quarts stock. 



2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. bacon. 



1 gill cooked peas, 
seasoning. 



Truss the chicken for boiling, slice the onion and carrot, cut the bacon in dice. 
Put these into a saucepan, place the chicken on the top, add a quart of stock, and 
cook slowly imtil tender. Take up the chicken, cut the meat off the bones, skin it, 
cut it up small, put into the mortar, and pound with the butter. Season with salt 
and cayenne, and rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a saucepan, strain 
into it the stock that was used for cooking the chicken, and the other quart of 
stock. Boil up, and cook for ten minutes ; then pass all through a fine sieve. 
Reheat, season to taste, and add the peas. The soup is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 



427. POTAGE AUX ABATIS (GIB LET SOUP). 



2 onions. 

1 carrot. 

a piece of celery. 



bouquet garni. 
10 peppercorns. 
2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 

1 glass Madeira. 

li ozs. oatmeal. 



2 sets duck or game giblets. 
2 quarts second stock (No. 
317). 

Clean the giblets, put them into a saucepan, cover with, cold water, bring to the 
boil ; then take them up, dry them, and cut in pieces. Put them into a saucepan 
mth the vegetables, cut up the bouquet garni, the peppercorns, and stock. Bring 
to the boil, skim well, and simmer gently for two hours, keeping well skimmed 
meanwhile. Now strain the stock, and cut up some of the best pieces of giblets in 
neat pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the oatmeal, add the stock, 
bring to the boil, and simmer for half an hour ; then add the wine, salt to taste, and 
the giblets. Cook ten minutes longer, then serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable, if game giblets, 
August to February ; if duck giblets are used, November to February, Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

428. POTAGE DE PUREE LIEVRE (HARE SOUP). 



1 hare. 

^ lb. lean ham. 

4 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. flour. 
4 shallots. 
2 onions. 



bouquet garni, 
blade of mace, 
salt. 



2 quarts second stock (No. 317). 
I pint port wine. 
12 peppercorns. 

Skin and paunch the hare, cut it into joints ; do not wash it. Cut the bacon in 
dice, melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the bacon and the pieces of hare, 
fry these a light brown. Add the onions cut in halves, the shallots peeled, the 
peppercorns, mace, and bouquet garni. Pour on to these the stock, bring slowly 
to the boil, and simmer for three hours. Skim well while cooking. Strain the 
stock thus made into a basin. Melt the remaining 2 ozs. of butter in a clean sauce- 
pan, stir in the flour, cook until it is a hght-brown colour ; then pour in the stock, 
stir until it boils, add the wine and seasoning, simmer for twenty minutes longer. 
Take some of the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar with a little stock, 
then rub through a fine Avire sieve. Add this to the soup ; also some neat slices cu* 

6—2 



82 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



from the back of the hare. When these shoes are thoroughly hot, the soup is ready 
to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. per quart, exclusive of wine. Time required, 4 hours, 
Seasonable August to March. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

429. POTAGE A LA TORTUE FAUSSE (MOCK TURTLE SOUP). 



\ calf's head. 


4 quarts of water. 


^ lb. lean ham. 


1 gill sherry. 


12 peppercorns 


1 carrot. 


1 turnip. 


2 0Z8. butter. 


1 bay leaf. 


bouquet garni. 


2 onions. 


celery. 


3 ozs. flour. 


2 cloves. 


\ lemon. 



^ head of oelery. 
2 cloves, 
blade of mace. 



10 peppercorns. 
2 quarts second 
stock. 



Bone the head, chop the bones, put them with the meat into a saucepan, and 
pour on to them the water or stock. Bring to the boil, add some salt, skim well, 
simmer for about three or four hours. Strain this stock into a basin. Prepare the 
vegetables, cut them up small, cut the ham in dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
put in the vegetables, ham, spice, and herbs, fry together for ten minutes ; then 
add the flour and brown it. Moisten with the stock, bring to the boil, stirring all 
the time. Let it simmer for ten minutes longer, then add the sherry, seasoning 
and lemon-juice. Make some veal stuffing (No. 201), shape into small balls, poach 
them, and add to the soup. Cut some of the meat from the calf's head into small 
pieces, and add also. The soup is now ready to serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 4 or 5 hours. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. 

430. POTAGE DE QUEUES DE BCEUF (OX-TAIL SOUP). 

1 ox-tail. 1 large carrot. 
4 ozs. butter. 2 onions. 

2 ozs. flour. bouquet garni. 

Cut the ox-tail in joints, put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and 
brmg to the boil. Strain off the water, put the pieces of tail into a cloth, and dry 
them. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan, put into it the shoed vegetables, the 
pieces of ox-tail, herbs, and spices. Fry these until brown, then add the stock. 
Bring to the boil, skim well, add some salt, and skim again. Simmer for two hours. 
Strain the stock into a basin. Melt the remaining 2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan, 
put in the flour, and fry a hght brown ; then dilute with the stock. Stir it until it 
boils, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Strain the soup into a soup tureen. Serve 
in it some of the smaller pieces of the tail, some of the meat cut in dice ; also some 
rounds of carrot and turnip. These must first be boiled until cooked before putting 
them into the soup. 

Average cost, 28. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

431. POTAGE AUX ROGNONS (KIDNEY SOUP). 

2 sheep's kidneys. 1 onion. 

4 ozs. shin of beef. parsley. 

1 tablespoon ful rice. 2 ozs. butter. 

Cut up the kidneys and beef into small dice, chop the onion and a few sprigs of 
parsley. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the kidneys, beef, and vegetables, 
cook them for ten minutes. Pour off the grease, add the stock and rice, boil until 
quite tender, then strain. Pound the meat and rice in a mortar, pass through a 
sieve ; stir this into the stock. Return all to a saucepan, make very hot, but do 
not boil it again. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with croutons separately. 

Average cost, is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



IJ pints brown stock- 
seasoning. 
Croitons of fried bread. 



432. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 



2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 apple. 

1 tablespoonful curry- 2 tomatoes, 

powder. salt. 

Cut the onions and carrots into shoes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in 
the vegetables, and fry them brown. Mix together the flour and curry-powder, 



2 onions. 

1 quart stock. 

2 carrots. 



2 ozs. butter, 
bouquet garru. 
6 peppercorns. 



POTAGES (SOUPS) 



83 



stir them into the butter, and fry for a few minutes. Moisten ^^dth the stock, and 
stir until it boils. Add the herbs, the tomatoes cut in halves, and the apples peeled, 
cored, and cut in quarters ; also the peppercorns. Let it simmer gently for one 
hour. Pass through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan to get hot, season to 
taste, and serve. Plain boiled rice is served separately with this soup. 
Average cost, 9d. Time required, Ih hours. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 duck. 
1 leek. 
1 onion. 



1 cabbage (heart). 

2 lbs. brisket of 
beef. 



1 carrot, 
piece of celery. 
3 ozs. butter. 



4 mushrooms, 
sour cream, 
seasoning. 



433. BORTSCH POLONAISE (A RUSSIAN SOUP). 

1 beetroot. 

1 clove. 

2 quarts stock. 

Roast the duck in the oven till tender, simmer the beef in 1 quart of water with 
the bouquet garni imtil cooked, then remove the bouquet and the fat. Cut the beef 
and the fillets of the duck into dice, put these into the broth from the beef, add the 
mushrooms cut in strips. Cut the rest of the vegetables into Julienne strips, saute 
them in a saucepan with the butter for a few minutes, strain the fat away, then 
add the stock and simmer for fifteen minutes. Stir in the broth containing the dice 
of meat and duck, and simmer all together for a few minutes longer. The soup is 
now ready to serve. Sour cream is served separately. The remainder of duck can 
be used as a salmi or in other ways. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, Ih hours. Seasonable November to March. 
Sufficient for 12 persons. 

434. POTAGE DE PERDREAUX (PARTRIDGE SOUP). 



1 partridge. 

1 quart stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. lean ham. 
1 glass sherry. 
1 oz flour. 



1 tomato. 

1 bouquet garni. 

1 onion. 



Roast the partridge until three-parts cooked ; then take it up, cut off the fillets 
of the breast. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put into it the ham cut small, the 
onion shced, and the bouquet. Stir these over the fire until a fight brown ; then 
add the carcase of the bird, broken up. Cook for a few minutes longer, then add the 
flour, brown a little, moisten with the stock, and stir until it boils. Add the tomato 
cut in slices, cook gently for thirty minutes. Pass the soup through a fine sieve, 
return to the saucepan, add the wine, salt, and cayenne. Cook for fifteen minutes 
longer. Add the fillets cut in dice before serving. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable August to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

435. POTAGE DE LAPIN A LA REINE (RABBIT SOUP, QUEEN STYLE). 



1 rabbit. 


2 ozs. butter. 


1 lb. shin of 


3 cloves. 


1 gill cream. 


2 onions. 


1 carrot. 


beef. 


10 peppercorns. 


3 quarts water 


bouquet garni. 


piece of celery. 


2 ozs. flour. 


3 yolks of eggs. 


salt. 



Wash the rabbit, put it into a saucepan with the beef cut up small, add the 
water, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour ; then take up the rabbit 
and take off the fillets, mince finely, and pound it to a paste. Pass through a fine 
sieve. Set it aside until it is required. Put back into the soup the remainder of 
the rabbit cut up, the onions, carrot, bouquet garni, celery, and spice. Bring to 
the boil, and stew gently for two hours ; then strain it, and take off the fat. Melt 
the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little. Now work in carefully the pounded 
and sieved rabbit, add the stock, and stir until it boils. Simmer gently for fifteen 
minutes, then pass it through a wire sieve. Return to the saucepan, and add the 
yolks of eggs and cream. Make very hot, but do not let it boil again. Season and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 3-| hours. Seasonable August to March. 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



84 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



436. POTAGE DE LAPIN BRUN (BROWN RABBIT SOUP). 



1 large rabbit. 
\\ quarts water. 

2 onions. 



salt. 

piece of celery. 

bouquet garni. 



\ lb. lean bacon. 
4 ozs. butter. 
1^ ozs. flour. 



10 peppercorns. 
2 carrots. 



Cut the rabbit into joints, prepare the vegetables, and cut them into shoes, and 
the bacon into dice. Melt 2 ozs. of tli3 butter in a saucepan, put in the rabbit, 
bacon, and the vegetables, and fry them brown. Now add the water, the bouquet, 
and the peppercorns ; simmer gently for two hours ; take off the scum as it rises. 
Strain the soup, and skim off all fat. Take a clean saucepan, melt the remaining 
2 ozs. of butter in it, stir in the flour, and colour a nut brown. Add the stock, and 
bring to the boil, stirring all the time. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Pour 
into a soup tureen, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable August to March. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

437. POTAGE DE LAPIN A L'INDIENNE (RABBIT SOUP WITH CURRY). 



1 rabbit. 

2 ozs. butter. 



\ carrot. 
1 onion. 



3 pints stock, 
piece of celery. 



\\ ozs. flour. 

1 tablespoonful curry-powder. 



boiled rice, 
seasoning. 



Cut the rabbit into joints, and slice the vegetables. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the pieces of rabbit and the vegetables, fry all together a nice brown. 
Rlix the flour and curry-powder together, sprinkle over the rabbit, and cook for a 
few minutes, stirring all the time. Add the stock, stir until it boils, then simmer 
gently for one hour ; take off the scum as it rises. Pass the soup through a sieve 
or tammy, return to the saucepan, and reheat. Before serving, add to the soup 
some dice of rabbit-meat. Boiled rice should be sent up with the soup separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable August to March. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

438. CREME DE VOLAILLE A LA SULTANE (CREAM OF CHICKEN, 

SULTAN STYLE). 



I quart chicken 
stock. 



chicken fillet. 
1 egg-yolk. 



1 gill cream. 
3 ozs. butter. 



f oz. ground rice. 
1 oz. pistachio nuts. 



Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, mix into it the ground rice, add the stock, 
and stir imtil it boils. Simmer for fifteen minutes. Pound the chicken fillets with 
1 oz. of butter and \ gill of cream, rub through a sieve. Add this to the soup, heat 
the egg-yolk with the other \ gill of cream, mix into the soup, and stir until very 
hot, but do not let it boil again. Blanch the nuts, peel them, put them into a 
mortar with 1 oz. of butter, pound together, and then rub through a fine sieve. 
Add this to the soup just before serving. Season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. (without chicken, which should be used up for other dishes). 
Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



439. CREME A LA VENITIENNE. 



1 quart stock. 

3 raw artichoke bottoms. 



3 ozs. butter. 

\ pint cooked peas. 



1 gill cream, 
seasoning. 



1 tablespoonful cooked 
spinach. 

Cook the artichokes in 1| ozs. of butter, rub them through a sieve, add the peSiB 
and spinach to them, put all into a mortar, season, and pound well. Melt in a 
saucepan 1 oz. of butter, stir in 1 oz. of flour, add the stock, bring to the boil, 
stirring meanwhile. Allow it to simmer for thirty minutes. Skim it well, and 
strain into a clean saucepan. Add the pounded vegetables to the stock, also the 
cream, season, and finish with the remaining \ oz. of butter. Do not let it boil 
again. When serving, add a few green peas as garnish. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the summer months. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

N.B. — This soup should be a light green. If necessary, add a little spinach greening. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 



85 



440. 



CR£ME D'ORGE a la VIENNOISE (CREAM OF BARLEY, VIENNESE 

STYLE). 



1 quart chicken stock. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. barley-flour, 
lleek. 



1 stick celery. 
1 egg-yolk. 



^ gill cream, 
seasoning. 



Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the barley-flour, cook for five minutes ; 
then dilute with the stock, stir imtil it boils ; take off the scum, and add the 
leek and celery prepared and cut up finely. Simmer gently for one hour. Mix 
the egg-yolk and cream together, add to the soup, bring to the boil, season to taste, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2 hours. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



441. POTAGE A L'lTALIENNE 



1 fowl. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



4 tomatoes. 

1 stalk of celery. 

4 ozs. raw bacon. 



4 shallots, 
bouquet garni. 
2 cloves. 



ITALIAN SOUP). 

2 teaspoon fuls anchovy 

sauce, 
seasoning. 



12 peppercorns. 
1 glass wine. 
5 pints stock. 



Half roast the fowl, then put it into a large saucepan with the bacon and vege- 
tables sliced, the bouquet garni, and the herbs. Moisten with a pint of the stock 
and the glass of wine, boil to glaze ; then add the rest of the stock, simmer for one 
hour, skim well. Strain the soup, put the fowl on one side, pound the vegetables 
in a mortar ; then put this into a saucepan, dilute with the rest of the stock. Rub 
it through a sieve or strainer, return to saucepan, bring to the boil, skim it well, 
and then add the anchovy sauce and seasoning. Cut the breasts of the fowl into 
dice, put these into a soup tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



442. POTAGE DE FAISAN (PHEASANT SOUP). 



1 pheasant. 
1 carrot. 
1 onion. 



1 stick celery. 

2 ozs. bacon. 
2 cloves. 



bouquet garni, 
small piece of 
mace. 



2 ozs. butter. 
2 quarts good 
stock. 



2 ozs. flour. 
1 glass wine, 
seasoning. 

Roast the pheasant ; cut up the carrot, onion, celery, and bacon into small 
pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the vegetables and bacon, and fry 
a brown colour. When the pheasant is cooked, cut off the fillets, and put them 
aside. Pound the carcase in a mortar, and add it to the vegetables. Stir in the 
flour, moisten with the stock, add the bouquet garni and the spice ; stir until it 
boils. Let the soup simmer gently for about one hour. Skim well during the 
time it is cooking. Pass the soup through a sieve, return to the saucepan, season 
nicely, and add the wine. Cook gently for ten minutes longer. The fillets of the 
pheasant should be cut in thick shreds, and served in the soup. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 9 persons. 

443. POTAGE A LA DUCHESSE. 

1 quart clear soup. | 2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot. | breast of game. I ^ pint cold water. 

Mix the arro\vroot with the water, heat the soup, and, when boihng, pour in 
the arrowroot. Stir over the fire until it boils. Let it simmer for ten minutes. 
Cut the cooked breast of game into inch lengths, put these into a soup tureen, and 
pour the hot soup on them. 

444. POTAGE DE PERDREAU A LA MANCELLE (PARTRIDGE SOUP WITH 

CHESTNUTS). 
1 partridge. | 15 chestnuts. | 1 piece of celery. | 1^ pints stock. 

Roast the partridge, split the shells of the chestnuts, put into a stewpan, cover 
with water, and boil for a few minutes. Drain them, take off the shells and skins 



86 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

while hot. Cook the chestnuts in stock with the celery cut up small. Remove the 
fillets from the partridge, put on one side for garnish. Cut up the rest of the bird, 
put it into a mortar with the bones, and pound it well with the essence of the 
partridge after roasting. Add the chestnuts, pound all well together, dilute with 
a little of the stock, rub through a fine sieve. Put this puree into a saucepan, add 
the rest of the stock, season to taste, and bring to the boil. Cut the fillets into 
Julienne strips, put them into a soup tureen, and pour the soup on them. 

Average cost, 26. lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable September to 
February. Sufificient for 5 persons. 

445. CREME DE VOLAILLE A LA MARIE STUART (CREAM OF CHICKEN, 

MARY STUART STYLE). 



1 quart chicken 
stock. 



1 oz. butter. 

2 egg-yolks. 



1 gill cream. 
1 oz. flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls cooked 
mixed vegetables. 



Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir until it 
boils. Simmer for ten minutes. Draw to the side of the fire, and add the eggs and 
cream mixed together. Do not let the soup boil after the eggs are added. Cook 
some vegetables, such as peas, carrots, and turnips (scooped out with a vegetable- 
cutter the size of peas), add these to the soup, season to taste, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 quart chicken stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls tapioca. 



1 fowl. 


2 ozs. butter. 


1 tablespoonful curry- 


2 quarts stock. 


2 onions. 


2 tomatoes. 


powder. 


1 tablespoonful 


1 apple. 


rice. 


\ giU almond milk. 


flour. 



446. POTAGE ORLEANS (ORLEANS SOUP). 

3 egg-yolks. 1 oz. butter. 

1 gill cream. seasoning. 

Heat the stock, and, when boiling, sprinkle in the tapioca. Boil for ten minutes, 
then draw to the side of the fire, and add the eggs and cream mixed together. Let 
the soup get quite hot. Cook the eggs a few minutes without boiling, season to 
taste, and finish with the butter. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, \ hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

447. POTAGE MULLIGATAWNY DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN MULLIGA- 
TAWNY). 

1 gill cream. 

seasoning. 

lemon-juice. 

Put the stock into a large saucepan, cook the fowl in it. When the chicken is 
done, take it up, take off the fillets of the breast, cut them in Julienne strips, and 
put them on one side for garnish (the remainder of the fowl can be used for other 
dishes). SHce the onions, and fry them in the butter without browning. Add the 
curry-powder and flour, stir for a few minutes ; add the apples and tomatoes sliced ; 
then dilute with the stock that the fowl was boiled in. Let all simmer together for 
half an hour. Pass the soup through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, reheat^ 
add the almond milk, and the cream ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice. 
Do not let it boil again. Before serving, add the Julienne of chicken fillets. Send 
up to table with it a plate of well-boiled rice. 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

448. ALMOND MILK. 
12 sweet almonds. | ^ gill water. 

Pound the almonds, mix with them the water, and wring through a cloth. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 



87 



HOUSEHOLD SOUPS 



BONE SOUP. 



449 

2 onions. 

1 large carrot. 

6 peppercorns. 

Chop up the bones, free them from fat ; also the trimmings of meat 
chop the onion, melt the butter, and fry the bones, meat, and onions in it. 



3 lbs. bones, 
trimmings of meat. 
1 turnip. 



1 stick celery, 
bouquet garni. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 oz. ground rice 
or sago. 

2 quarts water. 

Peel and 
Let them 



brown, then moisten with the water. Clean and cut up the turnip, carrot, and 
celery ; add to the soup ; also the peppercorns and bouquet garni. Let this simmer 
for four hours, keeping it well skimmed. Strain it, return to the saucepan, add the 
ground rice or sago, and stir over the fire for fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

450. POTAGE AU LAIT (MILK SOUP). 
1 leek. I 1 onion. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 oz. flour. | 1 pint whit© stock. [ 1 pint milk. 

Wash the leek, peel the onion, and cut both into slices. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, put in the vegetables, and cook in the butter without browning. Stir 
in the flour, add the stock, and stir until it boils. Let this simmer for twenty 
minutes, pass through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, season to taste, and add 
the milk. Heat thoroughly without boiUng. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 

451. SCOTCH BROTH. 



3 lbs. scrag end of 
neck of mutton. 



2 tablespoonfuls 
pearl barley. 



chopped parsley. 
4 quarts water. 



1 carrot. 1 leek. 

1 onion. 2 sticks celery. 

Cut up the mutton, remove the fat, wash the meat, and place in a saucepan. 
Cover with 4 quarts of water, put in about 1 tablespoonful of salt, let it come to 
the boil. Skim well, and allow it to simmer for two or three hours. Strain it, 
return to the saucepan, add the pearl-barley and the vegetables cut in dice. Let 
this boil until the barley and vegetables are tender, then add the parsley and some 
of the meat from the bones cut in dice. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

452. PUREE DE LENTILLES (LENTIL SOUP). 
^ pint of red lentils. | 1 onion. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 carrot. | 2 quarts water. 

Soak the lentils in water overnight. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the 
lentils drained, and the onion and carrot cut in slices. Stir these over the fire for 
a few minutes ; add the water, and boil untU the lentils are tender. Rub through 
a fine sieve, return to the saucepan, add salt, and heat over the fire. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 1^ to 2 hours. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

453. PEA SOUP. 

1 quart split I 3 quarts stock, 
peas. I 2 sticks celery. 

Soak the peas in water overnight. Drain them, place in a saucepan, add the 
stock, the vegetables, and ham cut into small pieces. Let this simmer until the 
peas are tender. Rub through a sieve, return to the saucepan, heat thoroughly, 
and serve with dried mint and dice of toast on separate dishes. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
8 persons. 



2 ozs. lean ham or 
bacon rind. 



2 onions. 
1 carrot. 



2 lbs. scrag end neck of 

mutton. 
1 lb. shin of beef. 



1 lettuce. 

3 quarts water. 

1 carrot. 



1 small cauliflower, 
chopped parsley, 
salt. 



88 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

454. MACARONI SOUP. 
3 ozs. macaroni. | 1 oz. butter. | 2 quarts white stock. [ salt. 
Break up the macaroni, and cook in boiling water for twenty minutes ; take up 
and drain well. Cut the macaroni in pieces about \ inch in length, melt the butter 
in a saucepan, add the macaroni, and stir over the fire for a few minutes ; then 
moisten with the stock, season with salt, and let it simmer until the macaroni is 
tender. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese separately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. In season alwayy. Sufficient for 9 
or 10 persons. 

455. VERMICELLI SOUP. 
2 ozs. vermicelli. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 quart white stock. | salt. 
Cook the vermiceUi in boiling water for a few minutes, strain ofif, and stir over 
the fire in the butter. Moisten with the stock, season with salt, and simmer until 
the vermicelli is tender. Pour into the tureen and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

456. HOTCHPOTCH. 

1 turnip. 

2 onions. 
\ pint green peas. 

Cut the meat up into small pieces, place in a saucepan, cover with the water, 
add the salt, and, when boiling, skim well. Clean the vegetables, cut the carrot, 
onions, and turnip into dice, put into the soup ; also the cauliflower broken into 
sprigs, the lettuce cut in fine strips, and the peas. Let all this simmer gently for 
about three hours. Lastly, add the chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. In season June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 

457. CABBAGE SOUP. 

1 large cabbage. | 2 onions. | 1 carrot. | 1 oz. butter. | 1^ pints stock. | ^ pint milk. | salt. 
Melt the butter in a large saucepan, cut the onions, carrot, and cabbage into 
fine shreds, stir these in the butter for a few minutes, then add the stock, and let 
it simmer until the vegetables are tender. Lastly, stir in the milk, and season 
with salt. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

458. FLORADOR SOUP. 

1 quart white stock. [ | pint milk. | 2 ozs. medium -grained Plorador. | salt. 

Put the stock into a saucepan, season with salt, and, when boiling, sprinkle in 
the Florador. Stir this for a few minutes, and then let it boil until the Florador 
is cooked — about fifteen minutes ; then add the milk, and let it get thoroughly hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 

459. COCK-A-LEEKIE. 

1 fowl. I 2 bunches of leeks. | 6 peppercorns. | 3 quarts of stock. | salt. 

Clean the fowl, and cut into joints ; place in a large saucepan, and pour the 
stock over. Let this come to the boil, add the salt and peppercorns, skim well. 
Cut off the roots of the leeks and some of the green part, wash the leeks very well, 
taking care to remove all the grit ; cut them into strips, and add to the soup. 
Simmer for three hours. Take out the pieces of fowl, and cut the meat into strips, 
like the leeks. Return to the saucepan, heat thoroughly, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. In season always. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 



I 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 89 

460. BARLEY SOUP. 

3 0Z8. pearl-barley. | 3 onions. | bones and trimmings of meat. | 4 quarts water. I salt. | parsley. 

Wash the barley, remove the fat from the bones and meat ; place these in a 
large saucepan, pour in the 4 quarts of water, let it come to the boil, add the salt, 
and skim well. Peel the onions, chop them rather finely, and add to the stock ; 
also the pearl-barley. Let this simmer for about three hours ; then remove the 
bones, cut the meat into neat pieces, and serve in the soup. Pour into the tm-een, 
And sprinkle chopped parsley over the surface. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 3| hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

461. HARICOT BEAN SOUP. 
1 gill haricot beans. | 4 onions. | 2 quarts water. | ^ pint milk. 

Soak the beans in cold water for twelve hours. Put the 2 quarts of water in a 
saucepan ; when boiling, add the drained beans and the onions, peeled and sUced ; 
season with salt, and let the soup simmer for about two and a half hours. Rub 
the soup through a sieve, return to the saucepan, stir in the milk. Heat thoroughly 
and serve. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 2| to 3 hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

462. SEMOLINA SOUP. 
1 quart white stock. | ^ pint milk. | 2 ozs. semolina. | salt. 

Put the stock into a saucepan, season with salt. Let it come to the boil, sprinkle 
in the semolina, stir over the fire for ten minutes ; then let it simmer until the 
semolina is cooked. Lastly, stir in the milk, let it get thoroughly hot, and serve 
with fried croutons of bread separately. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 

463. ECONOMICAL GREEN-PEA SOUP. 
J peck pea-shells. 1 oz. butter. 1 sprig of mint, 



1 onion. 



salt and pepper. 



1 quart water. 

Wash the shells, remove the vein from the back of each, peel and shce the 
onion. Melt the butter, put in the shells and onion, stir over the fire for a few 
minutes, pour in the stock, add the mint and seasoning. Let this simmer gently 
until the shells are tender, then pour through a hair sieve, and rub all the soft part 
of the shells through with a spoon. Return to the saucepan, and add a few drops 
of spinach greening if necessary. Heat thoroughly, and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, f hour. In season June to August. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

464. PARSNIP SOUP. 
1 lb. parsnips. | 1 onion. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 quart water. | 1 gill milk. | salt. 

Clean the parsnips, cut in thin shces ; also the onion. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, add the parsnips and onion, stir over the fire for a few minutes. Add 
the water and salt, simmer until the parsnips are tender. Rub through a fine sieve, 
return to the saucepan, stir in the milk, heat thoroughly, and serve. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 1 to 1| hours. In season from October to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

465. RICE SOUP. 
1 quart stock. | 2 ozs. Patna rice. | salt. | parsley. 

Place the stock in a saucepan, bring to the boil, and then sprinkle in the rice 
season with salt, and allow it to boil until the rice is tender — about fifteen minutes 
Pour into a soup tureen, and sprinkle chopped parsley over the surface. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 to 20 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



90 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 carrot. 

2 onions. 



466. BROWN SOUP. 

1 turnip. 2 ozs. butter or 1 quart brown stock. 



2 ozs. flour. 



salt. 



dripping. 

Clean the vegetables, cut them into thin shoes, melt the butter in a saucepan, 
add the vegetables, and fry until a good brown colour. Stir in the flour, fry this 
also for a few minutes, moisten with the stock, and stir over the fire until the soup 
boils. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, remove the fat, season to taste with pepper 
and salt, pour through a fine strainer, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
oient for 5 persons. 

467. WHITE SOUP. 



2 oniona. 
1 carrot. 



1 turnip. 2 ozs. butter. H pints white stock. 



6 peppercorns. 



h pint milk. 



2 ozs. flour. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, moisten with the stock, and stii 
over the fire until it boils. Clean the vegetables, cut in pieces, and add to the 
soups ; also the peppercorns. Let this simmer for forty-five minutes, then stir in 
the milk, season with salt, and strain out the vegetables. The soup is then ready 
to serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. In season aU the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



FISH SOUPS 



468. BISQUE D'ECRIVISSES (CRAYFISH SOUP). 

18 crayfish. 1 gill cream. 1 onion. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 quart fish stock. \ carret. 

2 ozs. rice. salt. cayenne. 

Shell the crayfish tails, cook the rice in stock until tender. Put half of the 
crayfish tails and the shells into a mortar with the butter and the rice, pound all 
well together. Put this mixture into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for a few 
minutes ; then add the stock, the carrot, and onion. Simmer for twenty minutes, 
then pass the soup through a hair sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, add 
the cream, and season with salt and cayenne. Before serving, add the remainder 
of the crayfish tails cut in dice to the soup. A little pounded spawn or lobster butter 
is an improvement. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable July to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

469. BISQUE DE HOMARD (LOBSTER SOUP). 

1 lobster. bay-leaf, thyme, and parsley. 
3 ozs. butter. 1 gill cream. 

2 ozs. flour. seasoning. 

Take the meat out of the lobster, put the meat from the claws on one side for 
garnish. Put the shell of the lobster into a mortar with the butter, pound well 
together ; then put all into a saucepan, and as soon as the butter is melted mix in 
the flour. Dilute with the stock, add the vegetables and herbs, stir until it boils ; 
then let it simmer for twenty minutes. Pass through a hair sieve, return to the 
saucepan, season it, and add the cream. Let it get thoroughly hot, but do not 
boil again. The meat from the claws of the lobster should be cut in dice, and 
added to the soup just before serving. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable in the simimer. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 quart fish stock. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 



91 



470. PUREE AUX HUITRES (OYSTER SOUP). 



24 sauce oysters. 

1^ quarts white stock. 



2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. flour. 



1 gill cr&am. 
lemon -juice. 



salt, 
cayenne. 



1 pint shrimps. 

2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. rice. 



1 gill cream. 
1 quart stock. 
1 onion. 



Preserve the liquor from the oysters, beard them, and cut in quarters. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, the hquor, and beards of 
the oysters. Stir until it boils, let it simmer gently for half an hour, season, and 
then pass through a sieve. Reheat, add the cream and the oysters, but do not boil 
again after the cream is added. The soup is then ready to be served. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

471. BISQUE DE CREVETTES (SHRIMP SOUP). 

salt. 

1 carrot. 

cayerme. 

Shell twenty-five shrimps, and put them aside for garnish. Pound the remainder 
of the shrimps ^vith the butter, boil the rice in stock until tender, add it to the 
shrimps and butter, mix well. Put this preparation into a saucepan, stir over the 
fire for a few minutes ; then add the stock, the carrot, and onion. Simmer for 
twenty minutes. Pass the soup through a hair sieve, return the soup to the sauce- 
pan, add the cream, and season with salt and cayenne. Do not let the soup boil 
again after the cream is added. Before serving, aidd the shelled shrimps. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable April to Sep- 
tember. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

472. BISQUE DE HOMARD A L'INDIENNE (LOBSTER SOUP, INDIAN STYLE). 

1 lobster. I 3 ozs. butter. 1 tablespoonful curry- thyme. I bay-leaf. 1 giU cream. 

1 onion. I 1 oz. flour. powder. parsley. I 1 carrot. 2 ozs. rice. 

Take the meat from the lobster, put the meat from the claws on one side for 
garnish. Put the shell of the lobster into a mortar with the butter, and poimd well 
together. Turn this into a saucepan, and as soon as the butter melts stir in the 
flour and curry-powder. Cook for a few minutes, moisten with the stock, add the 
vegetables and herbs, stir until it boils, then let it simmer for twenty minutes. 
Pass the soup through a hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, season with salt and 
cayenne, stir in the cream, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again. 
The meat from the claws of the lobster should be cut in dice, and added to the soup 
just before serving. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable in the summer. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

N.B. — The rest of the meat of the lobster can be used for making cutlets, etc. 

473. CREME DE SOLES A LA M£RIDI0NALE. 



2 quarts fish 


fillets of one 


4 ripe tomatoes. 


salt. 


1 carrot. 


stock. 


sole. 


2 ozs. butter. 


cayenne. 


parsley stalk.s. 


1 gill cream. 


1 gill sherry. 


2 ozs. flour. 


1 onion. 


thyme. 



Slice the onion and carrot, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the sHced 
vegetables and herbs, add the wine, and reduce to about one-half. Mix in the 
flour, then dilute Avith the stock, and bring to the boil, stirring all the time. Simmer 
for thirty minutes, then strain. Tie the fillets of sole in a piece of muslin, and boil 
them in the thickened stock for ten minutes. Take them out, let them cool, put 
in a mortar, and pound with the cream and a httle butter. Rub through a fine 
sieve. Add this puree, the tomatoes cut in dice, and seasoning to the soup five 
minutes before serving. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 10 persons. 



92 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



474. FISH MULLIGATAWNY. 



2 quarts fish 
stock. 



3 tablespoonfuls 
curry-powder. 



I oz. flour. 

salt and peppet. 



2 onions. 1 carrot. 1 tomato. 

1 turnip. fish bones. 1 apple. 

Melt the butter, prepare the onion,s, carrot, and turnip ; cut them into thin 
slices, place in the saucepan with the butter, and also the fish-bones broken up. 
Fry all these over the fire until a golden colour, stir in the flour and curry-powder. 
Return to the fire, and fry again for a few minutes to cook the curry-powder. 
Moisten with the stock, and stir until it boils. Peel the apple, and chop finely ; also 
the tomato. Add these to the soup, and let the whole simmer for half an hour. 
Rub through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, and 
serve with boiled rice separately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

475. POTAGE A LA DUCHESSE. 



1 quart fish 

stock. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ gill cream. 
2 yolks of eggs, 
cooked peas. 



fish quenelles (Nos. 

200 and 324). 
picked shrimps. 



salt. 

1 oz. flour. 

cayenne. 



I pint tomato sauce 

(No. 77). 
1 gill onion puree. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, add the fish stock, and stir until 
it boils. Season with salt and cayenne pepper, add the tomato sauce and the puree 
of onions (boiled onions rubbed through a hair sieve). Let the soup simmer for 
fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Beat the yolks of eggs in a basin, mix 
the cream with them, add to the soup, and cook over the fire without boihng. 
Care must be taken to prevent the eggs curdHng. Make the fish quenelles, poach 
them in hot water, take them up, drain them, and place in the soup tureen ; 
also the picked shrimps and a few cooked peas. Pour the hot soup over, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from June to August 
'"without the peas, all the year). Sufficient for 8 persons. 

476. POTAGE A LA CHINOISE (CHINESE SOUP). 



\\ pints white stock. 

1 dessertspoonful of anchovy 



fish forcemeat (No. 200). 
chopped parsley and tarragon, 
salt. 



2 ozs. butter. bouquet garni. 
1^ ozs. flour. cayenne pepper, 

essence. \ pint milk. 2 herring roes. 

Melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the stock and bouquet garni, and stir over 
the fire until boiling. Let the soup simmer for fifteen minutes, then add the 
anchovy essence. Strain into another sa-^Ksepan, season with cayenne pepper, 
and a httle salt if necessary. Add the milk to the soup, and allow it to get 
thoroughly hot. Make some small quenelles from the fish forcemeat, poach in 
salted water. Cut the herring-roes in dice, brown sHghtly in a little butter, and 
then put them into the soup tureen with the quenelles. Pour the hot soup over, 
and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, | hour. In season all the year, if pre- 
served roes are used. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

477. POTAGE PROVENCALE. 

2 large onions. 1 sole. 2 ozs. butter. salt. 

1 quart fish stock. 1 French roll. 1 oz. flour. 

Peel and sHce the onions, fry in the butter until a golden colour ; add the flour, 
then the stock, and stir until boiling. Strain through a hair sieve, return to the 
saucepan, and season with salt. Fillet the sole, cut into shreds, and add to the 
soup. Let this simmer until the fish is cooked. Cut the roll into shces, and crisp 
them in the oven. Put into the tureen, and pour the soup over. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons: 



POT AGES (SOUPS) 



93 



478. POTAGE A LA BAGRATION. 



1 pint fish Btock. 

J pint veal stock. 

1 tablespoonful curry- powder. 



1 gill milk or cream. 

6 prawns. 

cooked sole or plaice. 



salt. 

1 oz. butter. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

Melt the butter, add the curry-powder to it, and fry over the fire for a few 
minutes. Pour in the fish and veal stocks, and stir until it boils. Let it simmer 
for twenty minutes. Pass through a fine strainer into another saucepan, beat the 
eggs in a basin, mix into it the milk or cream. Add to the soup, and stir over 
the fire until the eggs are cooked. It must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will 
curdle. Season to taste with salt. Shell the prawns, cut the cooked fish into small 
dice, put these in the soup-tureen with the prawns, and pour the hot soup over 
Serve with fried croutons of bread separately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, | hour. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



479. POTAGE A L'ANDALOUSE (ANDALOUSIAN SOUP). 



1 quart fish stock. 

2 yolks of eggs. 



J lb. fish forcemeat (No. 200). 
I gill milk or cream. 



2 ozs. butter. 1 gill soubise sauce (No. 75). 

IJ ozs. flour. ^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the stock, and stir over the fire until it 
boils. Add the soubise sauce, and cook for a few minutes longer. Strain, return 
to the saucepan. Beat the eggs in a basin, mix in the milk or cream, and stir into 
the soup. Cook over the fire without allowing it to boil. Season to taste with salt. 
ISIix the tomato sauce Avith the fish forcemeat, and make into small quenelles. 
Poach them in salted water, take them up, drain carefuUy, put into the soup-tureen, 
and pour the hot soup over. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



480. POTAGE A LA MER. 



2 quarts fish stock (No. 316). 
1 onion. 
1 tomato. 



1 bay-leaf. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 carrot. 



1 turnip. 

1| ozs. butter. 

l| ozs. flour. 



2 yolks of eggs. 

salt. 

1 gill milk or cream. 



Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock, and cook over the fire until 
boiling, stirring all the time. Clean the vegetables, cut into pieces, and add to the 
soup ; also the bay-leaf and peppercorns. Simmer gently for one hour. Strain 
into another saucepan, beat up the eggs in a basin, add the milk or cream to them, 
and stir into the soup. Cook over the fire without boiUng. Season with salt, and 
serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1^ hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 persons. 



CHAPTER V 

THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES 

(HOT) 

SAUMON (SALMON) 

481. SAUMON BOUILLI, SAUCE AUX HUITRES (BOILED SALMON WITH 

OYSTER SAUCE). 



2 to 3 lbs. salmon, 
sufficient water to cover fish. 



I oz. salt to each quart oyster sauce (No. 102) 

1 cucumber. 



of water. 

Scale and clean the fish, put it into a fish-kettle with enough hot water to cover, 
add the salt, bring to the boil ; then draw the kettle to the side of the fire, and 
finish cooking -wdthout allowing it to boil again. 2 to 3 lbs. of salmon cut from 
the thick part will require half an hour to cook. When the meat separates easily 
from the bone, the fish is done sufficiently. When done, take it up and drain it. 
Dish on a napkin, send to table with the sauce separately, and with a plate of 
dressed cucumber. Other sauces, such as anchovy, shrimp, lobster, or Hollandaise, 
can bo served with salmon. 

Average cost of salmon, 2s. to 3s. per lb. Time required, ^ hour, or 10 minutes 
to the lb. In season February to September ; in full season May to August. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 7 persons. 



482. PETITES TIMBALES DE SAUMON (LITTLE TIMBALES OF SALMON). 

^ gill fish stock or water. I German sauce (No. 1). 

1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 1 oz. crayfish or prawn 

2 truffles. I butter (No. 186). 



1^ lbs. salmon. 
J oz. butter. 
I oz. flour. 



^ gill cream, 
salt. 



cayenne. 



Melt the | oz. of butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, add the water or 
stock, and boil until thick, and the mixture leaves the sides and bottom of the 
saucepan. Take it off the fire, and let it cool. In the meanwhile prepare the fish. 
Take away the skin and bone and put aside about I lb. of the fish for future use. 
Put the rest of the salmon into a mortar, add the panada to it — i.e., the thick sauce 
— ^and pound well ; then add the eggs, salt, and cayenne. Mix all well together, and 
rub through a wire sieve. Whip the cream shghtly, and add to the mixture. Well 
butter some small timbale moulds, and hne them with the mixture just made, 
leaving a cavity in the centre of each. Cook the salmon that was put aside, and 
cut it into small pieces. Mix with it the truffles cut in strips. Heat the (^erman 
sauce, stir into it the crayfish or prawn butter, and use a httle of this sauce to bind 
the salpicon of cooked salmon. Fill the cavity in each httle mould with this mix- 
ture, cover over the top with a layer of the pounded salmon, make it level with the 
tins, cover with buttered paper, put into a steamer, and steam for fifteen minutes. 
Take up the httle shapes, turn them upside down on to a dish, and let them stand 
for a few minutes, and if any hquid comes out it can then be soaked up. Take off 
the tins, and pour the sauce roimd. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to August, 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

9+ 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 95 

483. COTELETTES DE SAUMON A L'ANGLAISE. 

2h lbs. middle cut of salmon. 2 oz.s. butter. I pepper. | 2 yolks of egga. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. ' 1 gill white sauce (No. 88). 1 salt. ^ lemon. 

Cut the salmon into slices about | inch thick, cut each slice in half. Melt the 
butter in a frying-pan, put in the shces of salmon, and fry quickly. Take them up 
when done, season with pepper and salt, drain on paper ; then dish them on a hot 
dish, and serve with the following sauce : Heat the white sauce, and, when hot, put 
in the yolks of eggs, but be careful not to boil the sauce, or the eggs ^vill curdle. 
Season to taste with pepper and salt, add the juice of the lemon and the parsley, 
mix well, and it is ready to serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 9d. Time required, | hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

484. SAUMON GRILLE AU BEARNAISE (GRILLED SALMON WITH 

BEARNAISE SAUCE). 



2 lbs. middle cut salmon. 
2 ozs. butter. 



Beamaise sauce (No. 7). 
salt. 



Cut the salmon in slices 1 inch thick, season with salt. Melt the butter, and pour 
it over the slices of salmon. Grill them over a quick fire, allowing about ten minutes 
for each side to cook. When done, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of 
parsley, and send to table with a tureen of Bearnaise sauce. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

485. SAUMON A LA GENOISE (SALMON WITH GENOISE SAUCE). 



2 lbs. middle cut 


1 teaspoonful chopped 


salt. 


1 glass sherry 


salmon. 


parsley. 


pepper. 


i lemon. 


10 mushrooms. 


Genoise sauce (No. 99). 


2 shallots. 


butter. 



Cut the salmon into shces about ^ inch thick, butter a baking-tin, lay the fish 
on it, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Pour the wine into the tin, sprinkle 
the chopped shallots and parsley over. Put the tin into a slow oven, and cook for 
about fifteen minutes, basting constantly. When sufficiently cooked, dish up in a 
circle, and pour the sauce over the slices of salmon. The essence from the fish 
should be added to the sauce. Cook the mushroom-heads in butter, and put 
groups — four in each group — round the fish, or they can be placed in the centre 
of the dish. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable February to 
August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

486. FILETS DE SAUMON A L'AURORE (FILLETS OF SALMON WITH 

AURORA SAUCE). 



2 lbs. salmon (tail 
end). 



2 ozs. butter. 



seasonmg. 

Aurora sauce (No. 86). 



breadcrumbs. 
1 egg. 18 prawns. 

Fillet the salmon, take off the skin, and cut the fillets into equal-sized pieces. 
Season them, beat up the egg on a plate, dip in the pieces of fish, drain them, and 
toss in breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a saute-jjan. When very hot, put in the 
pieces of fish, and fry them a golden brown. Take up and drain, dish in a circle 
on a hot dish. Pick the pra^vns, put them into a saucepan, add a little sauce, and, 
when hot, garnish the centre of the dish with them. Pour the sauce round, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

PT. IT. 7 



96 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



487. DARNE DE SAUMON A LA CHAMBORD. 



4 lbs. salmon. 

1 pint stock (fish). 

\ pint claret. 



1 onion stuck with 1 clove. 
1 carrot, 
bouquet garni. 

For Garnish. 



6 peppercorns. 
Genevoise sauce (No. 98). 
salt. 



20 small whiting quenelles (Nos. 200, 324). | 6 crayfish tails. | 2 truffles. | 6 oysters. 

Put the salmon into a stewpan with the stock, wine, vegetables, herbs, and 
(seasoning. Put on the lid, and simmer very slowly for about one hour. When 
done, dish up, take off the skin, and decorate the top with the garnish prepared 
beforehand, and also place groups of the same garnish round the dish. Pierce the 
centre of the salmon with a hatelet skewer, on which has been placed a quenelle, 
truffle, and crayfish. The sauce is made from the cooking liquor of the dame. 

Average cost, 12s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 

N.B, — The term " darne " means a piece cut from the middle of the fish. 




Fia. 6. — Dabnb db Saumon a la Richelieu. 



488. DARNE DE SAUMON A LA RICHELIEU (SLICE OF SALMON, 

RICHELIEU STYLE). 



4 lbs. middle cut of 

salmon. 
1 pint fish stock. 
^ pint white wine. 



1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). 
1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 onion stuck with clove. 
1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). 



1 carrot, 
bouquet garni. 
6 peppercorns, 
salt. 



For Garnish. 
12 mushroom heads. | 1 gill shrimps. | 8 fried oysters. 

Put the salmon into a stewpan with the stock, Wine, vegetables, herbs, and 
seasoning. Cook very gently for about one hour. When done, dish up the salmon, 
take off the skin, and decorate the top with the garnish prepared beforehand, and 
place groups of the same garnish round the dish. Reduce the liquor from the 
salmon, add to it the veloute and tomato sauces, and finish with the lobster butter 
added in small pieces. Send up the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, lOs. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable February to end 
of April. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 97 

489. FILETS DE SAUMON A LA RAVIGOTE (FILLETS OF SALMON WITH 

RAVIGOTE SAUCE). 



2 lbs. tail-end of I 2 ozs. butter. 



pepper. I J lemon. 



salmon. I chopped parsley. salt. ! Ravigote sauce (No. 72). 

Fillet the salmon, take off the skin, cut into neat squares, and fry in the butter. 
Sprinkle over them the lemon- juice, seasoning, and chopped parsley. Cook slowly, 
and, when done, drain, and dish them in a circle. Sauce over with Ravigote sauce, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

490. CROQUETTES DE SAUMON (SALMON CROQUETTES). 

1 lb. cold salmon, i IJ^ ozs. butter. 1 gill milk, j breadcrumbs, 

fried parsley. I 1 oz. flour. 2 eggs. I salt and pepper. 

Chop the salmon finely ; melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the 
milk, and boil until very thick ; then add the chopped salmon, salt, and pepper ; 
mix well together. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it get cold. Divide 
into equal portions, shape them into cork shapes, dip each one in beaten egg, and 
then toss in breadcrumbs. Fry the croquettes in very hot fat, drain them, and dish 
up. Garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 10 croquettes. 

491. C6tELETTES DE SAUMON A LA POJARSKY (SALMON CUTLETS, 

POJARSKY STYLE). 

salt. 

pepper. 

legg. 

Chop the salmon finely, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the fish, and mix 
well together ; then add the cream, and season with pepper and salt. Turn the 
mixture on to a plate, shape it into a cake of even thicloiess, and put it aside to get 
cold and set. Shape it into even-sized cutlets, dip in beaten egg, toss in bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in very hot fat a golden brown. Dish up in a circle, and 
garnish the centre of the dish with fried parsley. Serve tomato sauce separately. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. ; with sauce, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
February to August. Sufficient for 6 cutlets. 

492. COTELETTES DE SAUMON A LA COMTESSE (CUTLETS OF SALMON, 

COUNTESS STYLE). 



h lb. salmon meat. 

2 ozs. butter. 

I tablespoonful cream. 



breadcrumbs. 

fried parsley (No. 195). 

tomato sauce (No. 77). 



1 J lbs. tail-end of i salt. i breadcrumbs, 
salmon. | 1 egg. I asparagus tips. 



butter. 

Beamaise sauce (No. 7). 



Fillet the salmon, skin the fillets, and divide them into cutlets of equal size. 
Dip these in egg, and toss in breadcrumbs ; fry in clarified butter (No. 199). Melt 
some butter in a saucepan, put in the cooked asparagus-tips, and toss them in it 
until hot. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish. Place the asparagus-tips in 
the centre, and serve with Beamaise sauce sent up separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable March to July. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

493. SAUMON AU GRATIN. 

salt, 
cayenne. 

Flake the cold salmon into nice-sized pieces, butter a china timbale mould, put 
in a layer of the sauce ; upon that arrange some of the fish, season with pepper and 
salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Cover with sauce, sprinkle with Parmesan, continue 

7—2 



1 lb. cold-boiled salmon. i 1^ ozs. Parmesan cheese. | butter. 

3 gills white sauce (No. 88). breadcrumbs. pepper. 



1 lb. salmon. 

2 ozs. butter. 

1 white of egg. 



98 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

in this way, alternating the layers until the timbale is full. Sprinkle the surface 
with breadcrumbs, put some pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a hot oven. 
BroAvn in the oven or under a salamander, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable March to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

494. BORDURE DE SAUMON AUX HUITRES (BORDER OF SALMON WITH 

OYSTERS). 

\\ gills Bechamel sauce (No. 4). salt. 

1 h gills cream. pepper. 

^ gill sherry. 18 oysters. 

Free the salmon from skin and bone, cut it up small, and put it into a mortar 
with 1 oz. of butter. Add 1 gill of thick Bechamel sauce, the white of the egg, 
pepper, and salt. Pound all well together, and rub through a wire sieve. Add to 
this 1 gill of whipped cream ; stir in carefully. Butter and decorate with truffle a 
border mould, fill it with the salmon forcemeat, and steam for thirty minutes. 
When done, turn it out, and fill the centre with the following : Put 1 oz. of butter 
into a saucepan, add to it the sherry, and reduce to half. Now stir in ^ gill of 
Bechamel sauce, and let it get very hot. Boil for five or ten minutes, add | gill of 
cream. Beard the oysters, put them into the sauce, season to taste, and bring to 
the boil. Dish this garnish in the centre of the fish, pour some Bechamel sauce 
round the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2 lbs. salmon. 
6 ozs. butter. 



I lemon. 



495. SAUMON A LA MEUNIERE. 

a little flour. 

salt and pepper. parsley. 

Cut the salmon into slices about 1 inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and 
dredge them ^vith flour. Put 4 ozs. of the butter into a frying-pan, and clarify it ; 
then put in the slices of fish, and fry them. When they are coloured on one side, 
turn them over carefully, and brown on the other side. Wlien sufficiently cooked, 
dish them on a hot dish, sprinkle over some lemon-juice, and pepper and salt. 
Chop some parsley coarsely, and garnish the fish with it. Just before serving, put 
the remaining 2 ozs. of the butter into a frying-pan, and heat it until it is a light 
brown. Pour this over the fish, and send to table at once. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable February to 
September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



seasonmg. 

J pint Bechamel (No. 4). 



1 pint stock. 

1 tablespoonful curry-powder, 

2 ozs. butter. 



496. KEDGEREE DE SAUMON. 

1 lb. salmon. 1 onion. 
\ lb. cooked rice. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Boil the salmon, and let it get cold. Take away all the skin and bone, and cut 
the fish into small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, chopped. 
Fry a light brown, add the rice, and fry for a few minutes ; then add the stock, 
and boil until the rice is tender, and has absorbed the stock. When making the 
Bechamel sauce, flavour it with the curry-powder. Chop the hard-boiled eggs 
rather coarsely. Butter a china timbale mould, place a layer of rice at the bottom, 
next a layer of salmon, then sauce, then some of the hard-boiled eggs. Continue in 
this way until the timbale is full, seasoning each layer. The last layer should be a 
coating of the sauce. Place the timbale in the oven for a few minutes, and then 
Berve. 

Average cost, 28. 6d. Time required, | hour. Seasonable February to September. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 99 

497. KEDGEREE DE SAUMON. 
Another Way. 
i lb. salmon. | | lb. boiled rice. | 2 hard-boiled eggs. | 2 ozs. butter. | seasoning. 

Boil the rice in plenty of salted water until tender. Wlien cooked, wash it 
under the tap, spread it on a baking-sheet, and put it in a cool oven to dry, turning 
tt over Avith a fork occasionally. Cut the cooked salmon in small pieces, melt the 
butter in a saucepan, stir in the fish and the rice, the chopped hard-boiled eggs, and 
seasoning. Stir all together over the fire until hot. Turn out on to a hot dish, 
pile it up in a pyramid form, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable February to Sep- 
tember ; full season. May to August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

N.B. — 2 ozs. of raw rice will weigh 4 ozs. when cooked. 

498. FILETS DE SAUMON A L'INDIENNE (FILLETS OF SALMON WITH 

INDIAN SAUCE). 

IJ lbs. salmon. I 1 egg. | Indian sauce (No. boiled rice. 

2 ozs. butter. I breadcrumbs. 104). 2 gherkins. 

Divide the salmon (either the middle or tail end) dowTi the backbone in two 
parts ; cut these into heart-shaped pieces about ^ inch thick. Beat up the egg on 
a plate, dip the pieces of fish in it, then toss them in breadcrumbs. Melt the butter 
in a frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the fish, and fry a golden colour. When 
done, drain them, and dish on a hot dish in a circle. Put some well-boiled rice in 
the centre, sprinkle over the fish the gherkins cut in Julienne strips, and pour the 
sauce round the base of the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

499. SOUFFLE DE SAUMON (SOUFFLE OF SALMON). 

J lb of salmon meat. I 1 oz. flour. 1 gill cream. | 1 truffle. I 1 oz. butter. 

i pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). ! | gill fish stock. | salt. : 2 eggs. 1 cayenne. 

Cut up the raw salmon into small pieces. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, 
stir in the flour, add the fish stock, and boil until the sauce leaves the bottom and 
sides of the saucepan. Put the salmon into a mortar, add to it the panada just 
made, pound well together ; then add the eggs, one at a time, a pinch of cayenne, 
and salt. Mix thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Whip the cream slightly, 
and mix into the salmon puree. Butter a timbale mould, and turn the mixture 
into it. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam from thirty to forty 
minutes. When cooked, turn out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, decorate 
the top with truffle, either chopped or cut in fancy patterns, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 

500. MOUSSELINE DE SAUMON A LA VICTORIA. 



1 lb. of salmon meat. 



1 truffle. I 1 oz. butter. 



^ gill Bechamel sauce 1 2 eggs. 
Victoria sauce (No. 118). (No. 4). | seasoning. ^ gill cream. I cooked peas. 

Chop the salmon, put it into a mortar mth the eggs, and pound. Add the 
sauce, season well, mix all together, and rub through a wire sieve. Butter some 
small timbale moulds, decorate each with pieces of truffle cut out with a fancy cutter, 
fin up with the salmon forcemeat, and steam them for twenty minutes. Prepare 
the sauce, and keep it hot. Melt the butter in a stew^an, put the peas into it, stir 
over the fire for a few minutes until thoroughly hot. When the mousselines are 
cooked, turn them upside down, on to a hot dish, and let them stand a few minutes, 
in order that they may drain. Pour away any liquor that mn^ out. Lift off the 



100 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



moulds, dish in a circle, pour the sauce round, and garnish the centre of the dish 
with the peas. Serve quickly. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 9 or 10 moulds. 

501. PAUPIETTES DE FILETS DE SAUMON (ROLLED FILLETS OF 

SALMON). 



1^ lbs. salmon, tail-end. 
1 gill fish stock. 



whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 

J pint HoUandaise sauce (No. 101). 



butter, 
truffle. 



salt, 
pei^per. 

Fillet the salmon, cut the fillets into slices | inch thick, 1 inch wide, and the 
length of a sole fillet. Flatten these slices carefully, so as to have them the same 
width and thickness as a sole fillet, season them, put on each a layer of whiting 
forcemeat, and roll up into the form of barrels. Place on a buttered baking-sheet, 
putting them close together, touching each other, so that they do not come imrolled. 
Season them again with salt and pepper, add the fish stock, cover with a buttered 
paper, place in a moderate oven, and cook for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, 
take out of the oven, drain, and dish them. Strain the cooking liquor into the 
sauce, make hot, and pour round the fish. Garnish each paupiette with a slice of 
truffle, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable February to 
August. Sufficient for 6 or 7 paupiettes. 

502. c6tELETTES DE SAUMON AUX CONCOMBRES (CUTLETS OF SALMON 

WITH CUCUMBERS). 



2 lbs. salmon (middle cut). 

1 lemon. 

4 ozs. butter. 



1 gill white wine. 
1 cucumber. 
1 gill fish stock. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

tarragon, and chervil, 
seasoning. 



Scale the fish, cut it in slices about | inch thick. Put 2 ozs. of butter into a 
stewpan, melt it, and then put in the fish. Strain over it the juice of the lemon, 
add the wine and stock, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and cook gently 
for about twenty to tliirty minutes. While the fish is cooking, prepare the garnish. 
Cut the cucumber, after peehng, into quarters, then into quarters again lengthways 
Take out the seeds, and cut the cucumber into dice \ inch square. Put these into 
a saucepan with cold water and a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, and cook untii 
tender. Strain them, return to the saucepan, add 2 ozs. of butter, a little lemon- 
juice, and seasoning to taste. When the salmon is cooked, dish it in a circle on a 
hot dish, put the garnish of cucumber in the centre, strain the liquor that the fish 
was cooked in through a fine strainer, mix the herbs with it, pour over the fish, and 
send to table. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



TRUITE (TROUT) 

503. BAKED TROUT. 



pepper, 
salt. 



2 or 3 trout. 3 tablespoonfuls 1 gill milk. 

1 oz. butter. oatmeal. 1 gill water. 

Scrape the trout, draw and wipe them well. Butter a deep baking or Yorkshire 
Cin, lay the trout in it, sprinkle with salt, add the milk and water and the oatmeal, 
cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes, or until 
the fish is done. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 minutes. In season March to 
August. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 101 

504. TRUITE A LA CAMBACERES. 

4 trout. I 1 oz. butter. I pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 1 gill white wine. I lemon -juice. 
2 truffles. 1 6 mushrooms. 1 gill white stock. 10 olives. salt and pepper. 

Clean the fish, butter a baking-tin, lay the trout on it, moisten with the wine 
and stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. When cooked, dish up the fish. Warm the Espagnole sauce, 
strain the reduced liquor from the fish into it, season -v\-ith lemon-juice, and add the 
remainder of th« butter. Cut the truffles in slices, put them into a small saucepan 
with the olives and cooked mushroom-heads, add a little sauce to them, make 
thoroughlj" hot, and garnish the dish. Sauce over the fish, and serve. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required. 30 minutes. Seasonable March to August. 

505. TRUITE A L'EPICURIENNE (TROUT WITH EPICUREAN SAUCE). 

1 large trout. ^ gill fish stock. | 1 gill Genoese sauce (No. 99). i 1 teaspoonful capers. 

J lomon. pepper and salt. I 1 teaspoonful blanched chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful chutney. 

2 oza. butter. \ gill white wine. 1 ^ teaspoonful blanched chopped tarragon. 2 anchovies. 

Clean and "wipe the fish, butter a baking-tin, lay the fish on it, add the wine and 
fish stock, season -with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Cover \vith a buttered paper, 
and cook in the oven till done — about twentv minutes. Make the Genoese sauce 
very hot in a ste\\'pan, add to it the essence from the fish. Pound in a mortar the 
remainder of the butter with the filleted anchovies, the chopped and blanched herbs, 
capers, and chutney ; season to taste. When well pounded and mixed, pass through 
a fine sieve. Stir this preparation into the sauce, make very hot, but do not boil 
again. Dish up the fish, and pour the sauce over. 

Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable March to August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

506. FILETS DE TRUITE A LA MIRABEAU (FILLETS OF TROUT WITH 

MIRABEAU SAUCE). 

1 trout. I salad oil. | pepper. 1 salt. | ^ oz. butter. | Mirabeau sauce. 

Scale the fish, wipe it with a dry cloth. Fillet the fish, and lay the fillets on a 
baking-sheet. Pour over the salad oil, season with pepper and salt, cover A^th 
buttered paper, and place in the oven for about ten minutes. WTien cooked, drain 
the fish on paper, so as to remove all grease. Take off the skin from the fish, lift 
carefully on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. 

For the Mirabeau Sauce. 

1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 1 gill fish stock (No. 316). 1 onion. 

1 oz. butter. 1 glass red wine. chopped parsley and tarragon. 

Peel and shce the onion, fry in half the butter until a pale browTi, add the wine 
and stock, and boil for a few minutes. Heat up the Espagnole sauce, strain into it 
the stock and wine, let this reduce well ; then add the chopped herbs and the rest 
of the butter in small pieces. 

Cost uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. In season March to August. 

507. TRUITE GRILLEES A LA MAITRE DH6tEL (GRILLED TROUT WITH 

MAiTRE DHOTEL BUTTER). 

2 or 3 trout. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). | lemon, i fried parsley. | butter. 
Scrape and clean the trout, cut them down the back, and take out the bone. 

Rub them over with butter, put on a gridiron over a clear fire, and grill for four or 
five minutes on each side. When cooked, take them up, put some maitre d'hotel 
butter inside each, dish on a napkin on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon 
and bimches of fried parsley. 

Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable March to August. Sufficient for 4 or 
6 persons. 



102 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



seasoning. 

1 teaspoonful lemon-juice. 

breadcrumbs. 



508. FILETS DE TRUITES FRITS (FILLETS OF FRIED TROUT). 

3 trout. \ pint white wine sauce (No. 119). 

egg. \ gill broAvn sauce (No. 6). 

fried parsley. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

Fillet the trout, trim and skin them. Season the fillets with pepper and salt, 
dip them in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat or lard. 
Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Heat the white sauce, 
then add to it the brown sauce, the lemon- juice, chopped parsley, and season to 
taste. Make hot, and send to table with the trout. 

Time required, 15 minutes. In season March to August. 

509. FILETS DE TRUITES A LA MORNAY (FILLETS OF TROUT WITH 

MORNAY SAUCE). 



3 trout. 

I gill fish stock. 



^ gill white wine. 

^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 



Parmesan cheese. 
6 mushrooms. 



1 truffle. 
butter. 



Remove the fillets from the trout, skin, and fold them in halves. Put on a 
buttered baking-sheet, add to them the stock and wine, season with salt and pepper, 
and cook in the oven till done. When the fillets are cooked, strain the liquor into 
a saucepan and reduce ; then add it to the Mornay sauce. Dish the fillets, place 
on each a mushroom-head and a slice of truffie, cover with the sauce, sprinkle with 
Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in the oven till brown. 

Time required, 20 minutes. In season from March to August. 



TURBOT (TURBOT) 

510. TURBOT A LA NORMANDE (TURBOT WITH NORMAN SAUCE). 



1 small turbot. 
J gill white stock. 



1 gill white wine. 

3 gills Norman sauce (No. 113). 



pepper. 

salt. 



8 mussels blanched. 

8 mushroom-heads cooked. 



For Garnish. 

8 cooked fish quenelles (Nos. 200 and 324). I 
8 oysters bearded and blanched. | 

Prepare a small turbot, wash and trim it. Put the fish on a baking-tin, season 
wdth pepper and salt, add to it the stock and wine, cover with greased paper, and 
bake in the oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, take up the fish, lift it care- 
fully on to a dish, and keep hot. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, 
make very hot, and sauce over the fish with it. Place the garnish round the dish 
in groups, and serve. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year round, 
but from March to August they are in their prime. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



511. TURBOT A LA PARISIENNE. 



1 small turbot. 
3 ozs. butter. 
IJ ozs. flour. 



whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 

I pint milk or white stock. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 



\\ gills white wine. 
1 gill fish stock, 
cayenne. 



\ lemon. 
2 yolks eggs. 
^ gill cream. 



For Garnish. 
12 picked prawns. | 12 button mushrooms cooked. | 8 blanched and bearded oysters. 

Cut the turbot down the back, and remove the bone ; then stuff it with the 
whiting forcemeat. Grease a baking-tin with butter, lay the fish on it, add to it 
1 gill of wine and 1 gill of fish stock, pepper and salt, and the liquor from the oysters. 
Put 1 oz. of butter over the turbot in little pieces, and put into the oven to bake. 
Baste it occasionally. When done, lift on to a dish, and keep hot while the sauce 
is prepared. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the hquor 
from the turbot, \ gill of sherry, and the fish stock ; stir until it boils, simmer for 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 103 

fifteen minutes, season with salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Mix the yolks of eggs 
with the cream, bind the sauce Avith these, but do not let it boil again. Pour the 
sauce over the turbot. Mix a little of the sauce with the garnish, and arrange round 
the fish in groups. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 persons. 

512. TURBOT A LA HOLLANDAISE (BOILED TURBOT WITH HOLLANDAISE 

SAUCE). 
1 turbot. I HoUandaise sauce (No. 101). | salt. | lemon-juice. | parsley. 

Wash the turbot, wipe it, and rub over with lemon- juice. Put the fish into a 
fish-kettle, with enough cold water to cover, and a handful of salt. Let it come to 
the boil, draw to the side of the fire, and let it poach for about half an hour. The 
length of time required depends on the size and weight of fish. When cooked, take 
ofif the scum from the water, lift the fish out upon the drainer, let it drain for a few 
minutes, then slide carefully ofif on to a dish covered with a napkin. Garnish with 
parsley, and serve the sauce separately. A dish of boiled potatoes should be sent 
up to table with this dish. 

Average cost, 3s. to 10s., according to size. Time required, according to size. 
Seasonable all the year round. 

513. FILETS DE TURBOT A LA FLORENTINE (FILLETS OF TURBOT, 

FLORENTINE STYLE). 

1 small turbot. I ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). j lemon-juice, j grated cheese. pepper. 

J gill sherry. I 2 lbs. cooked spinach. j 2 ozs. butter. | breadcrumbs. salt. 

Fillet a small turbot, cut the fiUets into even-sized pieces, butter a baking-tin. 
lay the fish on it, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice ; add the Avine, and 
cook in the oven for ten minutes. Arrange them on a gratin dish, spread each 
fillet with the cooked and sieved spinach, cover them with the sauce mixed with 
enough cheese to make it a nice flavour, sprinkle the top of each fillet with grated 
cheese, breadcrumbs, and melted butter. Put into a very hot oven or under a 
salamander to form the gratin. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

514. FILETS DE TURBOT A LA MAITRE D'h6tEL (FILLETS OF TURBOT 

WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE). 

2 lbs. tail-end of turbot. | | gill fish stock. i 3 gills maitre d'hotel sauce J oz. butter. 
i gill white wine. I 2 chopped shallots. I (No. 109). pepper and salt. 

Remove the dark skin from the turbot, fillet it, trim, and cut into even-sized 
pieces. Butter a baking-tin, lay the fish fillets on it, season with pepper and salt, 
sprinkle with the chopped shallots, pour over the wine and stock, cover with a 
buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Warm the 
sauce, put the fillets on a hot dish, add the hquor from the fish to the sauce, pour 
it over the turbot, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

515. TURBOTIN A L'AMIRAL. 

1 chicken turbot. Genoese sauce (No. 99). 12 mushrooms. I 12 pra\\Ti8. 

12 oysters. ^ pint Villeroy sauce (No. 84). | truffles. i seasoning. 

Weigh the turbot, place it in a fish-kettle containing boihng stock or water. 
Let this simmer gently, allowing five minutes for each pound. Drain the oysters, 
and remove the beards. Dip each oyster into thick Villeroy sauce, let them get 
quite set ; then egg and breadcrumb, and fry them in hot fat. Peel and trim the 



104 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



mushrooms, grill them in butter, and keep hot until required. Shell the prawns, 
and warm them in a little fish stock. Take up the fish, drain it well, and 
place on a hot dish. Warm up the Grenoese sauce, and coat the fish with it. 
Garnish round the dish with groups of fried oysters, prawns, and mushrooms 
alternately. Decorate down the back of the turbot with shces of truflfle, and a 
little chopped parsley. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, imcertain. Time required, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 
6 persons. 

516. BORDURE DE TURBOT A LA CASTELAINE (BORDER MOULD OF 

TURBOT). 



\\ lbs. turbot. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. flour. 
1 gill cream. 



1 gill fish stock. 

2 3'olks of eggs. 



1 whole egg. 
Beasoning. 



For Garnish. 



1 lobster. | 2 truffles. | 12 oysters. | white fish sauce (No. 88). 

Take away all bones and skin from the fish, flake the flesh into small pieces. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until 
the mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the pan. Put the fish, with the panada 
just made, into a mortar, pound well together, add the whole egg and the two yolks 
one at a time, pound until smooth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, and stir into the sieved prepara- 
tion. Grease a border mould, turn the mixture into it, cover over the top with a 
buttered paper, and steam in a moderate oven, or over the fire for half an hour. 
When cooked, turn on to a hot dish, put the garnish in the centre, and pour the 
sauce round the base of the border. To prepare the garnish, cut the meat from 
the tail and claws of the lobster into slices, beard the oysters, and slice the truffles. 
Warm these ingredients in some of the sauce, and use as directed. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable April to September. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



517. TURBOT A LA PROVENCALE. 



2 lbs, turbot, middle 

cut. 
2 chopped shallots. 



1 gill white wine. 

2 ozs. butter, 
lemon -juice. 



\ pint Bechamel sauce. 
1 teaspoonful anchovy 
essence. 



2 yolks of eggs, 
1 gill white stock, 
seasoning. 



Wash and dry the fish, put it into a buttered deep baking-tin, season with pepper 
and salt, sprinkle over it the chopped shallots, cover with a buttered paper, put in 
a moderate oven, and cook until the fish is done. Take up, and dish the fish. Heat 
the sauce, add to it the liquor from the fish, stir in the yolks of eggs, and bind the 
sauce without boiling ; then add the anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and 
seasoning. Pour over the fish, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

518. PAUPIETTES DE TURBOT AU VIN BLANC (ROLLED FILLETS OF 

TURBOT WITH WHITE WINE). 



3 lbs. turbot, 
1 gill white vnne. 
\\ gills fish stock. 



12 preserved mushrooms. 
\ gill cream. 



\ lemon. 



2 ozs. butter. 
12 prawns, 
seasoning. 



I lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 

200). 
I pint white sauce (No. 88). 

Skin the turbot, cut down the backbone with a sharp knife, and raise the fillets. 
Turn the fish over, and repeat the process. Cut the fillets into nice pieces about the 
size of a fillet of sole, flatten and trim them. Spread a layer of the forcemeat on 
each piece of fish, roll them up, and wrap each fillet in buttered paper. Put the 
butter in a deep baking-tin, arrange the rolls on it in an upright position, add the 
wine and the stock, and cook in the oven until the fish is done, which will take about 
fifteen to twenty minutes. In the meanwhile prepare the garnish. Cut the mush- 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 105 

^ooms in halves, shell the pra\vns, and cut each in half lengthways ; warm these in 
a little thin sauce. Heat the sauce, and when the fish is cooked, strain the liquor 
in the tin into the sauce, reduce well, and then add the cream, season to taste, add 
a squeeze of lemon-juice, and keep hot. To dish up, remove the paper bands from 
the fillets, arrange them in a hot dish in a circle in an upright position, sauce over 
the fish, place the garnish in the centre, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

519. TURBOT GRILLE (GRILLED TURBOT). 

1 turbot. I salt. | oil or melted butter. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). 

Cut the turbot in slices, season them with salt, sprinkle with oil or melted butter, 

and grill over a clear fire. Allow about twenty minutes for slices 1| inches thick. 

AV^hen cooked, dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with pats of maitre d'hotel butter. 

Serve at once. 



CABILLAUD (CODFISH) 

520. CABILLAUD BOUILLI, SAUCE HOMARD (BOILED COD WITH 

LOBSTER SAUCE). 
2 to 3 lbs. cod. I parsley. | salt. | lobster sauce (No. 103). 

Wash the fish, wipe it, and put into a fish-kettle containing enough boiling water 
to cover it. Add some salt, bring quickly to the boil ; then draw the pan to the 
side of the fire, and let it stay in the hot water until cooked. Do not let the water 
boil or simmer again. Cod cooked in this way has a much finer flavour than if it 
is allowed to simmer or boil. Take up the fish on the drainer, slide it on to a hot 
dish on a folded napkin, and serve, garnished with sprigs of crisp parsley. The 
sauce should be sent to table separately. 

Average cost : Cod, 8d. a pound ; lobster, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 
In season October to February. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

521. CABILLAUD ROTI A LA VENITIENNE (BAKED COD WITH 

VENETIAN SAUCE). 



3 lbs. middle cut of cod. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2 eggs. 
breadcrumbs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



3 gills Venetian sauce 
(No. 120). 

Skin the cod, put it on to a greased tin, and brush all over with beaten eggs, and 
cover with breadcrumbs. Melt the butter, and pour over the fish. Put it into a 
moderate oven for about half an hour, basting it occasionally. Dish it up, and 
send the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, | hour. Seasonable October to February. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

522. CABILLAUD FRIT A LA DIEPPOISE. 



2 lbs. middle-cut of cod. 
a little flour. 



milk. I 1 gill shrimps. 



white matelote sauce 

(No. 107). 6 oysters. I 6 mushrooms. 

Cut the cod in slices about | inch thick, dip them in milk, then in flour, and fry 
thom in very hot fat. It will take about fifteen minutes to cook them thoroughly. 
Drain on paper or a cloth. Dish the shces of cod on a hot dish, beard the oysters, 
and blanch them, prepare and cook the mushrooms, and pick the shrimps. Warm 
up this garnish in a little of the sauce (thin), and put it in groups round the fish 
Send the sauce up separately. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



106 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



523. CABILLAUD A L'INDIENNE. 



2 lbs. cod, tail-end. 



breadcrumbs. I lemon. 



curry sauce (No. 23). 
1 egg. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. boiled rice. I parsley. 

Cut the cod in slices | inch thick, season them with salt and pepper, dredge 
lightly vnth. flour, dip in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them in very hot 
fat a golden brown. Drain, and dish them in the centre of a border of boiled rice. 
Garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley and slices of lemon. Send to table mth the 
sauce separately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable October to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

524. COTELETTES DE CABILLAUD A LA BONNE FEMME (CUTLETS OF 

COD, HOUSEWIFE STYLE). 



1| lbs. cod. 
2 shallots. 



2 gills fish stock. 
1 J ozs. butter. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. \ lemon. 
J gill white wine. | gill cream. 



^ oz. flour, 
seasoning. 

Cut the cod into slices, butter a baking-tin, put the slices of cod in it, chop the 
shallots and sprinkle them over, add the stock and wine, and place in a moderate 
oven, basting frequently. When the fish is cooked, take it up, drain it, dish, and 
keep hot. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a 
little, and then strain in the liquor from the fish. Stir until it boils. Take off the 
fire, let it cool a minute ; then stir in the cream, seasoning with a little lemon-juice 
and the chopped parsley. Do not boil again after the cream is added. Pour the 
sauce over the fish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable October to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

525. COTELETTES DE CABILLAUD A LA PRINCESSE (COD CUTLETS, 

PRINCESS STYLE). 



2 lbs. cod. 
1 giU sherry. 



1 shallot. 
I lemon. 



1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 
^ pint brown stock. 



2 ozs- butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



salt, 
legg. 



pepper, 
breadcrumbs. 



Bone the cod, and cut it into nice pieces about 2 inches wide. Season the slices 
with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden 
brown in very hot fat. Take up the cutlets, drain them, arrange on a dish, and 
keep hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, fry the chopped shallot, mix in the flour, 
add the stock, and stir until it boils ; then put in the wine, and simmer for ten 
minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add the anchovy essence, the 
lemon-juice, and the parsley. Cook all together for a few minutes longer, pour 
the sauce over the fish, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable October to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

526. COTELETTES DE CABILLAUD A LA MILANAISE (CUTLETS OF COD, 

MILAN STYLE). 

2 lbs. cod, middle-cut. | 2 ozs. butter. | pepper. | salt. | 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 

Cut the cod into slices | inch thick, butter a fireproof dish, lay the cod cutlets 
on it, season them with pepper and salt, sprinkle thickly with the Parmesan cheese, 
and put the butter over them in little bits. Place in the oven, and cook until done. 
Serve the fish in the dish it was cooked in. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, | hour. Seasonable all the year ; best 
about December. Sufficient for 5 or 6 cutlets. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 107 



527. CABILLAUD A LA COLBERT. 



IJ lbs. middle-cut cod. 

maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). 



breadcrumbs, 
flour. 



2 ozs. butter. 1 lemon, 

parsley. 1 egg. 

Cut the cod in slices h inch thick, dredge each cutlet with flour, dip in egg, and 
then in breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry 
a golden brown. They will take six or seven minutes to cook. Dish the cutlets 
on a hot dish, garnish them with maitre d'hotel butter, and put round the dish slices 
of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year, but 
best in autumn. Sufficient for 4 or 5 cutlets. 



528. CABILLAUD A LA PORTUGAISE. 



1^ lbs. cod. 
1 onion. 



^ teaspoonful chopped 
parsley. 



3 ozs. butter, 
seasoning. 



^ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 gill white wine. 

Cut the cod in slices | inch tliick. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, chop the onion, 
and fry it in the butter a light colour. Put in the slices of cod, add the wine and 
sauce, the seasoning and parsley. Cover the saute-pan, and cook gently for five 
minutes. Remove to the side of the fire, take off the lid, and reduce the hquor for 
ten minutes while the fish is cooking. Dish the cutlets, pour the sauce over, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



529. CABILLAUD A LA PROVENCALE. 



2 lb. middle cod. 

1 gill white wine. 

2 gills fish stock. 



1 oz. butter. 

2 yolks of eggs. 
lemon-juice. 



h pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
2 teaspoonfuls anchovy essence. 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



1 dessertspoonful chopped onion. 

seasoning. 

bouquet garni. 



Place the fish in a stcAvpan, add to it the wine and the fish stock, seasoning, 
onion, and the bouquet garni. Cook over the fire until the fish is done. Dish the 
fish, and keep hot. Take out the bouquet garni, reduce the liquor, add the sauce 
to it, cook together for ten minutes ; then let the sauce cool a little, work in the 
yolks of the eggs. Cook over the fire, but do not boil again ; then add the 
butter, anchovy, parsley, lemon- juice, and seasoning. Strain over the fish, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 to 6 persons. 



530. CABILLAUD A L'lTALIENNE. 



1 glass claret. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt and pepper. 
12 mushrooms. 



chopped parsley, 
lemon-juice. 



2 lbs. middle-cut cod. 

3 gills Genoese sauce (No. 99). 

Cut the cod into slices | inch thick, butter a baking-tin, place the fish on it, 
season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Break up the butter, and put it on the- 
shces of cod, add the claret, put in the oven, and cook the fish for about fifteen 
minutes. Baste whilst cooking. When the fish is done, take it up, drain, and dish 
it. Strain the liquor left in the pan into the sauce, pour it over the fish, garnish 
round with the cooked mushrooms arranged in groups, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



108 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



SOLES 

531. FILETS DE SOLES A LA MARIGNY (FILLETS OF SOLES, MARIGNY 

STYLE). 



1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 oz. lobster butter (No. 179). 



truffles, 
seasoning. 



2 soles. I J gill white wine. 

^ gill fish stock. I I gill shrimp sauce (No. 94). 

Fillet the soles, and fold each one in half. Put them on a buttered baking- 
sheet, pour over the wine and stock, season with pepper and salt, and cover with a 
buttered paper. Cook in the oven for about ten minutes. When cooked, dish 
them in a circle overlapping each other, pour the shrimp sauce over them — it must 
not be too liquid — and roimd the fish pour the tomato sauce in which the lobster 
butter has been dissolved. Put on each fillet some chopped truffles, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, \ hour. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 




Fig. 7. — Filets de Soles a la Lyonnaisb. 



532. SOLE A LA LYONNAISE. 



mashed potatoes, 
chopped parsley. 



1 thick sole or lemon sole. I cayenne. I salt. 

Lyonnaise sauce (No. 106). I lemon-juice. I coral. 

Fillet the sole, cut into pieces the shape of a kite, season the fish with salt, 
cayenne, and lemon-juice. Put them on a buttered tin, cover with buttered paper, 
and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Have ready some mashed potato, mounted 
on a dish. Take up the fish, dish it on the potato, and decorate it with chopped 
parsley and coral. Pour Lyonnaise sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufiicient for 2 persons. 

533. SOLE AU PARMESAN (SOLE WITH PARMESAN CHEESE). 
1 thick sole. | pepper. | salt. | lemon-juice. 

For Sauce. 
1 oz. butter. | \ oz. flour. | 1^ gills milk. | 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. | cayenne. | salt. 

Skin the sole, and trim the fins. Grease a baking-sheet with butter, lay the 
sole on it, season with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice ; cover with a buttered paper, 
and cook in the oven for ten minutes. While the sole is cooking, make the sauce. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 109 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, add the milk, and stir until it boils. 
Ijet it cook for a few minutes, then add the cheese grated, cayenne, and salt. Pour 
this sauce over the sole after it has been placed on a hot dish, sprinkle with grated 
cheese, and put in the oven to brown. Serve at once very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

534. SOLE A LA NORMANDE. 

1 sole. I 1 gill white wine. | seasoning. 

For Garnish. 

oysters. I Normande sauce (No. 113). I button mushrooms, 
mussels. | fried croutons of bread. | truffles. 

Skin the sole, and trim it. Put it into a buttered tin, season with pepper and 
salt, and add the wine. Cover with a buttered paper, and put in the oven for 
ten to twenty minutes, according to the size of the sole. Prepare the garnish, and 
warm it in some of the sauce. When the sole is cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour 
the sauce over, and garnish tastefully with the prepared garnish and the croutons 
of fried bread. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

535. FILETS DE SOLE A LA BLANCHAILLE (FILLETS OF SOLE AS 

WHITEBAIT). 
1 solo. I flour. I salt. | cayenne. | fried parsley. 
Fillet the sole, cut the fillets in fine strips the size of whitebait, dip them in 
flour so that they are well covered, place on a coarse wire sieve, and shake well to 
remove all the loose flour. Put the strips of fish into a frying-basket, and as soon 
as the frying-fat is smoking hot, plunge the basket into it, and cook for three or 
four minutes until the fish is a nice golden colour. Take up, turn the fish on 
to paper to drain, then dish up in a pile on a dish, paper, or napkin. Sprinkle 
on them some salt and cayenne, and garnish the dish with fried parsley. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, la. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



1 sole. 

lemon -juice. 

J gill white wine. 



1^ ozs. butter. 

J oz. flour. 

1 gill fish stock. 



536. FILETS DE SOLES FARCIS AUX CREVETTES (FILLETS OF SOLES 

STUFFED WITH SHRIMPS). 

1 gill chopped shrimps. spawn, 
tomato sauce (No. 77). breadcrumbs. 

1 egg. I cayenne. 

Fillet the sole, and cut each fillet in half. Season them with salt, pepper, and 
lemon- juice. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, add the stock, 
and stir until it boils. Add the spawn, cayenne, and yolk of egg ; strain, and mix 
in the chopped shrimps. Put a thick layer of this mixture over the fillets, roll 
them up, put on a baking-sheet with the remainder of the butter and the wine, cook 
in the oven with a buttered paper over for ten minutes. Take up the fish, drain 
them, and let them get cold. Beat the white of the egg a little on a plate, flour 
the rolls of fish, dip them in the egg, then crumb them. Repeat this, fry a golden 
brown in a very hot fat, dish up in a pile on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 
Tomato sauce is served separately with this dish ; also the hquor from the fish 
should be strained into the sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



110 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

537. FILETS DE SOLES A L'EPICURE (FILLETS OF SOLE WITH EPICUREAN 

SAUCE). 

1 large sole. 1 wineglas3 white wine, whiting forcemeat i 2 tomatoes. 2 potatoes (raw). 
1 oz. butter. | 12 mushrooms. (No. 200). | 4 pra^vns. Epicurean sauce. 

Fillet the sole, season the fillets with pepper and salt, spread a layer of forcemeat 
over each, fold in hah, and put them on a baking-tin Avith the butter and the wine. 
Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. 
Take them up, drain, and dish on a roll of mashed potato, and keep hot. Prepare 
the garnish. Peel the mushrooms, and cook them in butter ; cut the tomatoes in 
shces, and cook a little in the oven on a buttered tin ; cut the potatoes in cubes, 
and fry them a golden brown in hot fat. When ready to serve, place a fine picked 
prawn on each fillet, and garnish the dish on each side of the fish with the prepared 
garnishes. (See coloured plate.) Send the sauce up to table separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, \ hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 2 or 3 persons. 

538. SAUCE A L'EPICURE (EPICUREAN SAUCE). 



cayenne. 



1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon. 



J pint white fish sauce (No. 88). | 1 shallot. 

1 oz. crayfish butter (No. 186). | | gill white wine, truffle. chervil, and parsley. 

Chop the shallot and truffle, put them into a saucepan with the wine, and reduce 
to half the quantity ; then dilute with the sauce, stir, and mix well. Bring to the 
boil, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Season to taste with cayenne, add the 
chopped herbs, and lastly the crayfish butter. Use as directed. 



539. FILETS DE SOLES A LA PRINCESSE. 



2 soles. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



bouquet garni. 
2 ozs. bacon. 
2 ozs. butter. 



picked shrimps. 

truffle. 

fleurons. 



1 gill sauterne. 
Bcamaise sauce 
(No. 7). 

Fillet the soles, slice the onion and carrot, and cut up the bacon into dice. Put 
the butter on to a baldng-tin, make a bed of the vegetables and bacon, dilute with 
the wine, fold each fillet in half, and lay them on the vegetables, bacon, and herbs. 
Poach them in the oven for about ten minutes. Take them up, drain, and dress 
them down the centre of a hot dish. Garnish with picked shrimps and chopped 
truffle. Cover the fillets completely with the sauce, garnish the dish with the 
fleurons, and serve very hot. The bones of the soles should be used for making 
stock, and the sauce made with it. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 to 6 persons. 

540. TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES A LA BECHAMEL (TIMBALE OF 

FILLETS OF SOLES WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE). 

3 soles. I i lb. whiting forcemeat. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | truffle. 

Fillet the soles, flatten them with a knife dipped in cold water, trim them straight 

on each side, and season with pepper and salt. WeU butter a medium-sized timbale 

mould, lay the fillets slanting in the mould, with the tail-ends meeting in the centre, 

the other ends extending over the edge. Fill the hollow part with the forcemeat, 

and turn the ends of the fillets over, so as to cover the forcemeat. Place the mould 

on a baking-tin containing boiling water, cover the shape with buttered paper, and 

Bteam it in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When ready to serve, turn 

out the mould, sprinkle some chopped truffle in the centre of the top, and pour the 

sauce round. The remainder of the sauce can be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 




O 

Q. 

lU 



I/) 

o 
tn 

en 

lE 



3 ozs. rice. 
2 czs. butter. 



1 pint of fish stock (No. 316). 
1 small onion. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) HI 

541. TURBAN DE FILETS DE SOLES ET SAUMON A LA CARDINAL (CROWN 

OF FILLETS OF SOLES AND SALMON WITH CARDINAL SAUCE). 

6 fillets of soles. | 6 slices of salmon. | i lb. lobster forcemeat. | i pint Ca,rdinal sauce (No. 00). 

For Garnish. 
shrimps' tails. | mushrooms. | truffles. | a httle chopped parsley. 

Arrange the fillets of soles in a border mould in the same manner as in the 
preceding recipe, but alternating the fillets of sole with the slices of salmon, wliich 
should be the same size as the fillets. Fill up the hollow space with lobster force- 
meat, cover the mould mth a piece of buttered paper, and steam in the oven for 
about thirty minutes. When cooked, turn out, pour the sauce round the base of 
the dish, and put the garnish warmed in some of the sauce in the centre. Put a 
pinch of chopped parsley in the centre of the garnish. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable March to August. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

542. TURBAN DE FILETS DE SOLES AU RISOTTO. 

3 soles. I ^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). | grated Parmesan cheese, i risotto. 

Prepare the mould as in previous recipes by lining it with the fillets of soles, fill 
the centre with risotto, steam in the oven. When cooked, pour over it Mornay 
sauce, sprinkle with cheese, and brown in the oven. Serve at once very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

543. RISOTTO. 

^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). I salt. 
1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. I pepper. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; when hot, fry the chopped onion without brown- 
ing. Add the rice, and fry a little. Stir in the stock, and cook until the stock has 
become absorbed and the rice is tender ; then add the tomato puree, salt, and pepper. 
Cook for a few minutes longer, then mix in the cheese. Stir all well together, anr' 
use as directed. 

N.B. — If risotto is required for any dish besides fish, ordinary stock would be 
used instead of the fish stock. 

544. PAUPIETTES DE SOLES EN RAMEQUINS (ROLLS OF FILLETS OF 

SOLES IN CASES). 

2 soles. I whiting forcemeat (No. 200). j chopped truffles. lemon-juice. I pepper, 

butter. 1 8 small china ramequin cases, j shrimp sauce (No. 94). 1 gill fish stock. I salt. 

Fillet the soles, mix the chopped truffles with the forcemeat, season the fillets 
with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Put on each a layer of the forcemeat, roll up 
the fillets, and put them on to a buttered baking-tin. Season again, add the stock, 
and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in the oven for about ten minutes. Butter 
the china cases, put a little of the sauce at the bottom of each ; then place a paupiette 
on the top of it, pour some sauce over, and garnish each with a slice of trufile. 
Dish up, and ornament the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at any time. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

545. SOLES AU VIN BLANC. 

2 soles. 1 glass white wine. | J pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). ^ lemon. I ^ gill fish stock. 

2 shallots. 8 preserved mushrooms. | a little chopped parsley. ! 1 oz. butter, seasoning. 

Fillet the soles, and trim them ; put on to a buttered tin ; chop the shallots 

and sprinkle over them ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice ; add the wine 

and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. When 

cooked, dish them on a hot dish, and keep hot. Warm up the Bechamel sauce 

PT. n. 8 



112 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



strain into it the liquor from the fish, reduce to a good consistency, and season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice. Strain over the fish, place a mushroom- 
head on each fillet, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

546. FILETS DE SOLES A LA GRAND-DUC. 

2 soles. I ^ gill white wine. | truffles (8 slices). seasoning, asparagus tips. 

8 prawns. | pint Momay sauce (No. 110). Parmesan cheese. | butter. ; lemon-juice. 

Fillet the soles, trim them, and fold each in half. Put them on a buttered tin, 
season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Add the wine, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. When cooked, dish the fish in a circle 
on a hot dish, put on each fillet a slice of truffle and a picked prawn. Pour the 
Mornay sauce over, sprinkle with cheese and a little melted butter. Put the 
dish into a hot oven to brown. When ready to serve, fill the centre of the 
circle with cooked asparagus-tips. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable March to Jul}-. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



547. FILETS DE SOLES A LA JOINVILLE. 



2 soles. 

6 mushrooms. 



J pint shrimp sauce (No. 94). 
1 tablespoonful picked shrimps. 



2 truffles. 



lemon- juice, 
chopped parsley. 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, 
season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook 
in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Take up and dress the fish on a hot dish in a 
circle, sauce over with the shrimp sauce, and keep hot. While the fish is cooking, 
the garnish should be prepared. Cut the mushrooms, truffles, and shrimps into 
dice ; toss them in butter, and put them in the centre of the fish. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

548. SOLES A LA PORTUGAISE. 



1 sole. 

2 tomatoes. 



1 glass of white wine. 

i giU fish stock (No. 316). 



6 mushrooms, 
chopped parsley. 



2 ozs. butter, 
seasoning. 



\ pint white wine sauce 
(No. 119). 

Place the sole on a baking-sheet, season it with pepper and salt, add the ^vine 
and stock, and steam in the oven for fifteen minutes. Drain and dish it ; keep hot. 
Prepare the garnish while the fish is cooking. Peel the tomatoes, press out the 
seeds, chop coarsely, and cook in butter. Chop the mushrooms, and cook them also 
in butter. Mix these together. Coat the sole with the white wine sauce, and 
surround it with the garnish. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

549. SOLE A L'AURORE. 



1 sole. 

1 shallot. 

3 or 4 mushrooms. 

chopped parsley. 



1 glass white wine. 
^ gill fish stock or mush- 
room juice. 
^ gill white sauce (No. 88). 



3 yolks of eggs. 
^ lemon, 
seasoning. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2 hard-boiled eggs, 
grated Parmesan cheese. 
1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 



Separate the top fillets of the sole from the spine, and break the latter in several 
places. Put 1 oz. of butter in a deep baking-tin, place the sole on it, season with 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Add wine and stock, or a little mushroom liquor. 
Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. 
When sufficiently cooked, take up the sole, drain it, and remove the back-bone. 
While the sole is cooking, melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, fry the chopped shallot, 
and mushrooms also chopped ; mix in with them the parsley. Stuff the sole with 
tnis mixture. Heat the white sauce in a small stewpan, add the three raw yolks 
to it, cook a little without boiling ; then stir in the juice of the lemon, the anchovy 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 113 

essence, a little Parmesan cheese, and a pinch of cayenne. Stir all together until 
it thickens ; mask the sole with this. Rub the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs through 
a wire sieve, chop the whites finely, mix these together with a little grated cheese. 
Sprinkle this all over the fish, put it into the oven or under a salamander to brown. 
Pour some tomato sauce round the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 



550. SOLE A LA FLORENTINE. 



1 sole. 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 ozs. butter. ^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 

1 lb. spinach. grated cheese. 1 glass white wine. 

Put 1 oz. of butter on a baking-tin, place the sole on it, season with pepper and 
salt, add the wine, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Melt the rest of the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the cooked spinach, season nicely, and rub through a 
sieve. Spread this all over the sole, cover with Momay sauce, and sprinkle with 
grated Parmesan cheese. Put it again into the oven to brown. Send to table 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

551. SOLE MEUNIERE A L'ORANGE. 
1 sole. I 4 ozs. butter, | pepper. | salt. | a little flour, | 2 oranges. 

Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a frying-pan, and make it very hot. Dredge the sole 
lightly with flour, season it with pepper and salt, and fry in the butter a golden 
brown on both sides. Lift it, when cooked, on to a hot dish, and garnish with 
peeled slices of orange, taking care to remove from them all the white pith and the 
pips. Melt the remaining 2 ozs. of butter, cook it until it is a nut-brown colour ; 
then pour it over the fish, garnish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable November to 
June. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

552. PETITS BATEAUX DE SOLES AUX ECRIVISSES (LITTLE BOAT- 
SHAPES WITH SOLES AND PRAWNS). 



2 soles. 
1 lemon. 



4 potatoes. 



1 glass white wine. 1 croute of fried bread. I ^ gill cream, salt. 

18 praA\Ti3. 1 gill shrimp sauce. ^ pint sauce Bercy (No. 553). ' 1 oz. butter. pepper. 

Fillet the soles, roll each fillet round a piece of raw potato well buttered, place 
them on a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Add 
the wine, cover with buttered paper, and steam in the oven for about ten minutes. 
Wash the potatoes, dry them, and bake in the oven. Warm up the sauce, add the 
cream to it, and ten of the prawns chopped. When the potatoes are sufficiently 
cooked, cut them in halves. Scoop out some of the pulp, and put a httle of the 
pra\Mi mixture in each potato-case (the potatoes should be oval in shape). Take 
the pieces of potato out of the fillets, and fill with the same mixture ; then pl^.ce 
them in the baked potatoes, place a picked prawTi-tail in the top of each fillet, fill 
roimd the fish with the prauTi mixture. Reheat, and dish them round an orna- 
mental croute of bread. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Serve with sauce 
Bercy separately. (See coloured plate.) 

553. SAUCE BERCY. 

2 chopped shallots. I 1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). 2 ozs. butter. 1 teaspoonful glaze. 

1 gill white wine. ] 1 gill fish stock. j juice of J lemon. chopped parsley. 

Melt ^ oz. of butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the chopped shallots, and 
blend a little ; then add the wine and fish stock, reduce imtil only a third of the 
quantity is left ; then add the veloute sauce and the meat glaze. Let the sauce 

8—2 



114 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

boil gently for ten minutes. ]Mix together the remainder of butter with some 
chopped parsley and the lemon- juice ; add this to the sauce by degrees off the fire. 
Serve as directed. 

Average cost of entree and sauce, 4s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

554. FILETS DE SOLES A LA MAINTENON. 

8 whiting quenelles (Nos. 200 and 324). 1 1 gill fish stock. 
\ pint anchovy sauce (No. 85). i 2 ozs. butter. 

Fillet the soles, put them on a buttered baking-tin, pour over the fish stock and 
nine, season with salt and pepper, cover Avith a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes. Drain the fillets, and dish them on a low border 
of mashed potato in a circle. Reduce the hquor of the fish, and strain it into the 
anchovy sauce. Beard the oysters, toss them in butter over the fire for a few minutes, 
and add the quenelles to them. Sauce over the fish, and put the garnish in the centre. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



2 soles. I seasoning. 

1 glass wine, j 8 oysters. 



2 soles. 

1 glass white wine. 



Jemon-juice. 
butter. 



pepper, 
salt. 



555. FILETS DE SOLES A LA TURENNE. 

Duchess potatoes. 

\ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 

Fillet the soles, put them on a buttered baldng-tin, season with salt, pepper, and 
lemon-juice. Add the wine, and cover vdth. a buttered paper. Cook in the oven 
for ten minutes. Make a pretty border round a dish with Duchess potatoes, brush 
it over with the yolk of an egg, and place it in the oven to brown. Dish the fillets 
in the centre of the potato border overlapping each other, cover the fish carefully 
with Momay sauce, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and 
put it for a few minutes in a brisk oven or under a salamander to bro^vn the surface. 
Serve at once. 

556. DUCHESS POTATOES. 

1 lb. cooked potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 yolk of egg. | a little cream. | salt. | pepper. 

Rub the potatoes through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the 
potato, add the egg, cream, and seasoning. Mix all well together, then turn on to a plate 
to cool, and use as directed. The above border is best made with a bag and forcing-pipe. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, f hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 
4 persons. 

557. FILETS DE SOLES A LA VERNON. 



2 soles. 

\ gill fish stock. 



seasoning. 



\ giU white wine, 
butter. 



savoury nee. 

\ pint shrimp sauce (No. 94). 12 oysters. 

Fillet the soles, season them, fold in half, and place on a buttered tin. Add the 
i<tock and wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. 
Take up, and drain. Boil some rice in stock, make a border with it on a hot dish, 
dress the fillets on it, pour the sauce over, and fill the centre with fried oysters. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable September to ApriL 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2 soles, 
butter. 



558. FILETS DE SOLES A LA VOISIN. 

\ gill fish stock. j Duchess potatoes (No. 556). 
I gill white wine. 1 ^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 



grated cheese, 
seasoning. 



For Garnish. 
sliced lobster. | mushrooms. | truffles. 

Fillet the soles, fold them in half, put on a buttered baking-tin, season, add the 
itock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. 
Make a border on a dish with the potato, egg over, and glaze in the oven. Dish 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 115 

the fish round the inside of the border, garnish with the lobster, mushrooms, and 
truffles ; cover with Mornay sauce, sprinkle with cheese, and bake in a sharp oven. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

559. SOLE A LA MOSCOVITE. 



1 sole. 


1 glass white wine. 


lobster coral. 


1 oz. caviare. 


truffles. 


^ pint white wine sauce 


chopped parsley. 


pepper. 


butter. 


(No. 119). 


3 ozs. puff paste. 


salt. 



Butter a baking-tin, place the sole on it, season with pepper and salt, and add 
the wine. Cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Drain the sole, and place on a 
hot dish. Strain the liquor into the sauce, and reduce to a good consistency. Mask 
the sole with this. Decorate it with chopped truffles, lobster coral rubbed through 
a sieve, and chopped parsley, all sprinkled on the fish. Cut the puff-paste into 
crescents, and bake ; then cover them with caviare. Garnish the dish with these, 
place in the oven for two minutes, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 or 3 presons. 

560. FILETS DE SOLES A LA PARISIENNE (FILLETS OF SOLE, 

PARISIENNE STYLE). 



2 soles. 

1 glass white wine. 



1 oz. butter. | pint white wine sauce (No. 119). 8 pra\vnd. 

truffles. 



seasoning. 12 preserved mushrooms. 

Lift the fillets of the soles, butter a baking-tin, fold the fillets in half, place them 
on the tin, pour the wine over, season with pepper and salt, and cook them in the 
oven for ten minutes. Drain the fish, strain the liquor into a stewpan, reduce well, 
and add to it the white-\\ane sauce. Make it very hot, and then pour over the fish 
Warm the mushrooms, praAvns, and truffles — the latter cut in shces — in a little thin 
sauce. Place this garnish in the centre of the fish, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

561. FILETS DE SOLES A LA RICHE. 

2 soles. I ^ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 200). I seasoning. 

1 gill fish stock. I shrimp sauce (No. 94). 1 truffle. 

Fillet the soles, season them, and spread over each fillet a layer of the whiting 
forcemeat. Fold over in half, place them on a buttered baking-tin, season, add the 
fish stock (which should be made from the bones of the whiting), cover with a 
buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Drain the fish, and 
dish the fillets overlapping each other. Make the sauce, and add to it some chopped 
truffle. Pour it over the ffllets, and garnish with a slice of truffle on each fillet. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. 



562. FILETS DE SOLES A LA COLBERT. 

salt, 
pepper. 



2 soles. I J pint HoUandaise sauce I ^ gill wliite wine, i brown breadcrumbs, 
butter. I (No. 101). I lemon-juice. ' ma'tre d'hotel butter. 

Fillet the soles, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, roll each ffllet round the 
finger, place these on a buttered baking-sheet, season with salt and lemon-juice, 
and add the wine to them. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate 
oven for ten minutes. Have ready some brown breadcrumbs. As soon as the 
fish is cooked, toss each rolled fillet in the crumbs. Tliis must be done at once, or 
the crumbs will not stick. Dish in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and 
put a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on the top of each roll, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, | hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



116 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



563. SOLE A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 



1 sole. 

1 oz. butter, 
flour. 



oz. 



1 gill milk. 
\ gill cream. 
1 gill water. 



lemon-juice. 
1 shallot. 
J bay-leaf. 



1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley. 



Fillet the sole, break up the bones, and put them into a saucepan with the milk 
and water, shallot, and bay-leaf. Bring this to the boil, and simmer gently for 
twenty minutes ; then strain and cool. Fold the fillets in half, place them on a 
buttered tin, season with salt and lemon-juice, cover with greased paper, and cook 
in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Now proceed to make the sauce. JNIelt 
1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan, mix in the flour, add the fish stock, and stir until 
it boils. Simmer for ten minutes, draw the saucepan off the fire, let it cool a 
minute ; then add the cream, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and the chopped parsley. 
Make thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with a pinch of parsley in the centre of each fillet, 
and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 




Fig. S. — Sole au Gratin. 



564. SOLE AU GRATIN. 



1 sole. 


^ gill piquant© sauce 


2 teaspoonfuls chopped 


1 oz. butter 


1 shallot. 


(No. 59). 


parsley. 


pepper. 


lemon -juice. 


6 muslirooms. 


brown breadcrumbs. 


salt. 



Skin and trim the sole, cut it down the back-bone, and loosen the top fillets 
without separating them entirely from the bone. Chop the shallot and mush- 
rooms, mix them together with the parsley. Butter a fire-proof or gratin dish, 
sprinkle over some of the mixed herbs, lay the sole on this, put the remainder 
of the parsley, etc., over the fish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and a squeeze 
of lemon-juice. Cover with brown breadcrumbs, put the butter in little bits here 
and there on the sole. Place the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about 
fifteen minutes. Remove the fish from the oven, pour the sauce round, and 
servo. 

Average cost. Is. lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 117 



seasoning, 
lemon-juice. 



565. FILETS DE SOLES A LA ROUENNAISE. 

2 soles. I 2 ozs. butter. i gill water. ^ gill cream. 

1 lobster. | 1 truffle. ^ pint Cardinal sauce (No. 90). | oz. flour. 

Fillet the soles, split the lobster, crack the claws, take out the meat, and chop 
it finely. Wash the coral of the lobster, put it into a mortar ^\^th 1 oz. of butter, 
and poimd well together ; then rub it through a wire sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in 
a ste\\-pan, add the flour, then the water, and boil well. Put in the coral butter and 
the lobster, mix well, season to taste, and add the cream. Stir all together, and 
turn on to a plate to cool. Lay the fillets on a board, season them with pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice. Put a layer of the lobster mixture over each fillet, and fold in 
halves. Arrange them on a buttered baking-sheet, pour over a little fish stock 
made from the bones of the soles, place in a moderate oven, and cook for ten minutes. 
When cooked, dish in a circle or down the centre of the dish, place a slice of truffle 
on the top of each, pour the sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable March to October, 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 9. — Filets de Soles a va Rouennaise. 





566. SOLE A LA BOHEMIENNE. 




2 soles. 
1 truffle. 


1 gill white wine. 1 oz. butter. 
^ pint fish stock. ^ gill cream. 


^ oz. flour, 
lemon-juice. 


lobster coral, 
chopped parsley. 


cayenne 
salt. 



Fillet the soles, and fold each fillet in half. Place them on a greased tin, season 
vvith pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Add the wine, cover with a buttered paper, 
and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix 
in the flour, add the fish stock (made from the bones of the soles), stir until it boils, 
cook well ; then add seasoning, cream, and lemon-juice. Strain in the liquor from 
the soles. Dish the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and decorate the 
fillets alternately with chopped truffle, coral, and parsley. It is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 

for 4 persons. 

567. PAUPIETTES DE SOLES A LA CONDE. 

2 soles. butter. whiting forcemeat (No. 200). j lemon-juice. salt. 

1 truffle. fish stock. | ^ pint prawn sauce. I 1 glass white wine. pepper. 

Fillet the soles, lay them out flat on a board, season with salt, pepper, and 
lemon-juice. Put over them a layer of the whiting forcemeat nicely seasoned, and 



]18 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



mixed with a little cream. Roll them up, put on a buttered baking-sheet, season 

with salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice, add to them the wine and some fish stock 

made from the bones of the soles and whiting, cover \^ith a buttered paper, and 

put into the oven for fifteen minutes. In the meanwhile prepare the sauce, and 

butter lightly some small china souffie moulds. When the fish is cooked, dress the 

fillets in the china cases, one in each. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, 

make very hot, and pour over the paupiettes. Garnish each with a slice of truffle 

whicli has been ready heated in a little white wine. The dish is now ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, f hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 

for 4 persons. 

568. PAUPIETTES DE SOLES A LA MORNAY. 

2 soles. 4 baked potatoes. \ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 200). ! lemon-juice. \ salt, 

butter. Parmesan cheese, i 3 gills Mornay sauce (No. 110). | fish stock. ' pepper. 

Fillet the soles, lay them out flat, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juico. 
Put over them a layer of whiting forcemeat, roll up, and put on a buttered baking- 
sheet. Season again, and pour the stock into the pan. Cover with a buttered 
paper, and put them into the oven for ten minutes. Cut the potatoes in half 
lengthways, scoop out the pulp, and pass it through a fine sieve. Mix this puree 
with double the amount of Mornay sauce, put a paupiette in each half-potato, pour 
the sauce mixed with the potato over the soles, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan 
cheese and melted butter, and bake in a hot oven till brown. Dish up. and servo. 




Fig. 10. — Paupiettes de ISoles aux Tomates. 



569. PAUPIETTES DE FILETS DE SOLES AUX TOMATES (ROLLS OF 
FILLETS OF SOLES WITH TOMATOES). 



2 soles. 
8 oysters. 



I lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 
4 large tomatoes. 



^ pint white wine sauce 
(No. 119). 



fish stock, 
lemon-juice. 



salt, 
cayenne. 

Fillet the soles, season, and put over them a layer of fish forcemeat. Put on 
to a greased baking-sheet, pour over the fish stock, cover with a greased paper, 
and put it in the oven for ten minutes. Skin the tomatoes, cut them in halves, 
press out some of the pulp, season with pepper and salt, and when the soles arc 
cooked, place a paupiette in each half -tomato. Sauce over the fillets carefully with the 
sauce, so that it does not run over the sides of the tomatoes. Garnish the top of each 
paupiette with a fried oyster. Put the dish in the oven to get quite hot, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season September to 
March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 119 

570. FILETS DE SOLES SOUFFLES. 

2 soles. I 1 gill fish stock. 2 yolks of eggs. seasoning, 

butter. I ^ pint Mornay sauce (No. 110). lemon-juice. 2 whites of eggs. 

Fillet the soles, place on a buttered baking-tin, first seasoning them and folding 
them in halves. Add the fish stock, cover ^vith buttered paper, and cook in the 
oven for about ten minutes. When cooked, strain the liquor the soles were cooked 
m into a small saucepan, and reduce. Add the Mornay sauce to it, make hot ; then 
mix in the yolks of the eggs. Cook a little without boiling, beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, stir it lightly. Put the paupiettes in china cases, one in each 
case ; cover over carefully with the sauce ; bake them in a hot oven for five minutes. 
Dish up, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

571. FILETS DE SOLES A LA BEARNAISE (FILLETS OF SOLES WITH 

BEARNAISE SAUCE). 

2 soles. breadcrumbs, j J pint Beamaise sauce (No. 7). I 2 ozs. butter. 

1 egg. 8 mushrooms. 1 | pint anchovy sauce (No. 85). 

Fillet the soles, season, and fold them in half. Dip in beaten egg, and toss in 
breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them a 
light brown. Coat the fillets of soles with Bearnaise sauce. Dish on a roll of 
mashed potato, either in a circle or straight down the centre of the dish. Pour the 
anchovy sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

572. FILETS DE SOLES A LA JEANNETTE. 

2 soles. I I pint veloute sauce (No. 82). ' 9 sauce oysters, j 2 ozs. butter. 

1 gill fish stock. ! I gill cream. | seasoning. 1 lemon-juice. 

Fillet the soles, skin and trim them, fold each fillet in half, put on a buttered 
baking-sheet, season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Cover with 
a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Beard the 
oysters, put them with their own liquor into a small stew^an, just bring them to 
the boil, turn into a mortar, and pound ; then rub through a sieve. Heat the 
veloute sauce, add to it the cream, and the cooking liquor from the soles, season to 
taste, stir in the puree of oysters, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and finish the sauce 
with 1 oz. of butter, added gradually. Dish the soles on a hot entree dish, pour the 
sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, | hour. Seasonable September to March. 
Sufficient for 4 to 8 persons. 



2 soles. 8 shces truffle. 

8 mushrooms, breadcrumbs. 



573. FILETS DE SOLES A LA MONTPENSIER. 

3 gills Italian sauce (No. 41). I ^ gill white wine. 1 truffle. 
1 gill fish stock (No. 316). I 1^ ozs. butter. seasoning. 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 
Place them on a buttered baking-tin, add the fish stock and the wine, cover with 
buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Drain the 
fish, and place it on a fire-proof dish in a circle. Place on each fillet a mushroom- 
head and a slice of truffle. Pour the sauce over the fish, sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, place a few pats of butter here and there, and bake in a hot oven for five 
minutes. Serve in the dish it was baked in. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



120 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

574. FILETS DE SOLES A LA BERCY. 

2 soles. I a few slices of carrot. 1^ gills veloute sauce (No. 82). lemon-juice. I pepper. 
4 shallots. 1 gill fish stock. 1 teaspoonful parsley. I 2 ozs. butter. | salt. 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half, put them on a buttered baking-sheet 
with the sliced shallots and carrot, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Add 
the fish stock, cover ^\^th a greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten 
minutes. When cooked, drain and dish the fillets. Reduce the fish stock, then 
add the sauce, mix in the remainder of the butter, season to taste -with salt and 
lemon-juice, add the parsley, chopped, and pour this sauce over the fish, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

575. PETITES TIMBALES DE SOLE A LA MODERNE (LITTLE TIMBALES 

OF SOLE, MODERN STYLE). 

1 lb. mashed potatoes. 2 ozs. butter. 1 yolk of egg. I 2 soles. j salt. 

^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). | ^ gill shrimps. | glass white wine. ' lemon -juice. I pepper. 

Boil the potatoes, strain, and dry them well. Rub through a wire sieve. Melt 
I oz. of butter in a saucepan, then stir in the potato, add the yolk of egg, and season 
to taste. Butter eight dariole or small timbale moulds, and fine them with the 
potato mixture, leaving a hollow in the centre. Bake in a brisk oven a golden 
brown. When done, take out of the oven, and let cool a little ; then turn the 
shapes out carefully, and put aside. Fillet the soles, chop the shrimps, mix a little 
white sauce with them, season to taste, and put a layer of this over one side of 
each fillet. Roll up, and put them on a baking-sheet with 1 oz. of butter. Pack 
them close together, so that they may keep in shape. Add the wine to them, a 
squeeze of lemon- juice, and a sprinkle of salt. Cover with a buttered paper, and 
place in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When they are sufficiently 
cooked, place one fillet in each potato-case, coat them over carefully with Mornay 
sauce, sprinkle over a little grated Parmesan cheese and a few drops of melted 
butter, and place in a hot oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and to 
brown at the same time. Dish up the little shapes in a circle on a hot dish, and 
garnish with cut lemon and sprigs of parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 to 8 persons. 

576. TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES A LA CARDINAL (TIMBALE OF 
FILLETS OF SOLES WITH LOBSTER). 



3 soles. 
2 whitings. 



1 lobster (small). I 1 oz. butter. Cardinal sauce (No. 90). 2 eggs 



seasonmg. 



\ gill cream. | 1 oz. flour. ^ gill fish stock. 

Bone the whitings, cut up the meat in small pieces, split the lobster down the 
back, crack the claws, take out the meat, and chop it small. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock (which should be made from the bones of 
the whiting), and boil until thick. Put this sauce into a mortar with the lobster 
and whiting meat, pound well, add the eggs one at a time, mix all together, season 
with salt and cayenne. Pass through a wire sieve, whip the cream slightly, and 
add it to the mixture. Well butter an oval timbale mould, fillet the soles, flatten 
them with a knife dipped in cold water, trim them straight on each side, and season 
with pepper and salt. Lay the fillets slanting in the greased mould, with the tail- 
ends meeting in the centre, the other ends extending over the edge. Fill the hollow 
part with the forcemeat, and turn the ends of the fillets over, so as to cover the 
forcemeat. Place the mould on a baking-tin containing boiling water, cover the 
timbale with a piece of buttered paper, and steam it in the oven for about thirty 





C 

u 
«5 

u 

o 

CO 

-a 



(U 



-a 

e 




THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 121 

minutes. When ready to serve, turn out the mould, place a cooked mushroom- 
head in the centre of the top of the timbale, and put a few cooked pra^vns as garnish 
that have been made hot in hot water. Pour some Cardinal sauce round the base 
of the dish, and serve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to September. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

577. FILETS DE SOLES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (FILLETS OF SOLES WITH 

MUSHROOMS). 

2 soles. 1 gill white wine. 1 gill veloute sauce (No. I lemon -juice. 

2 ozs. butter. 4 ozs. button mushrooms. 82). seasoning. 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half, butter a baking-tin, arrange the fillets 
on it, season them with salt and lemon- juice, add the wine, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Melt 1 oz. of butter 
in a saucepan, cook the mushrooms, season them with pepper and salt. When the 
fish is cooked, strain the cooking liquor in the tin into the veloute sauce, reduce 
the sauce to the right consistency, work in 1 oz. of butter gradually. Dish the 
fish in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and put the cooked mushrooms 
in the centre. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

578. SOLE BONNE FEMME. 



^ gill fish stock. 

1 gill white fish sauce (No. 88). 

butter. 



1 sole. ! 6 mushrooms. 

2 chopped shallots. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
seasoning. ^ gill white wine. 

Take a fire-proof gratin dish, butter it well, and sprinkle over it the chopped 
shallots, chopped mushrooms, and parsley. Place the sole on these herbs, season 
with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Add the wine and fish stock. Place the dish 
in the oven, and cook gently, basting it occasionally. When the sole is cooked, 
strain the liquor in the dish into a small stewpan, reduce it to half the quantity, 
add to it the white fish sauce, stir until it boils ; then add gradually 1 oz. of butter. 
Pour this sauce over the sole, and put it into a quick oven for a few minutes to 
glaze. Send to table at once. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

579. FILETS DE SOLES A LA PARMENTIER (FILLETS OF SOLES WITH 

POTATO). 



2 soles. 

1 gill white wine. 

lemon-juice. 



1 yolk of egg. 

1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 

butter. 



1 lb. Duchess potatoes (No. 556). 

seasoning. 

^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 

Skin the soles, fillet and trim them, fold each fillet in half, season with pepper, 
salt, and lemon-juice. Put them in a baking-tin with 1 oz. of butter, cover with a 
buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Put the Duchess potato 
into a forcing- bag fitted with, a fancy pipe, put a border round a dish I to 2 inches 
high, brush over with yolk of egg, and put in the oven for a few minutes to colour. 
Pour some Mornay sauce inside the border — just enough to cover the bottom of 
the dish — lay the fillets on this, and cover with Mornay sauce, but do not let it 
run over the top of the border. Sprinkle the grated Parmesan cheese over, and 
some melted butter ; put the dish in the oven to glaze. When ready, serve at 
once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 



122 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



580. FILETS DE SOLES A LA BERLINOISE (FILLETS OF SOLES, BERLIN 

STYLE). 

2 soles. I I gill fish stock (No. 316). i ^ gill sherry. | | pint suprtme eauce (No. 74). , 1 dozen prawns. 
I lemon, cooked potato. ! butter. i 1 dozen preserved mushrooms, paprika pepper. 

Remove the fillets from the soles, fold each in half, place on a buttered tin, 
season vdih. salt and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Pour over them the | gill of sherry 
and fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten to fifteen 
minutes. Cut the mushrooms in slices, place in a saucepan with the prawns, picked 
and spht in halves lengthways. Mix this with a little thin supreme sauce. Mash 
the potatoes, make a border of them on a hot dish, arrange the fillets on it, over- 
lapping one another. Coat them \^ith supreme sauce, which has been coloured a 
])ale pink with paprika pepper. Garnish each fillet -with a little chopped parsley, 
or truffie, and a prawn-head. Fill the centre cavity with the prawn and mushroom 
ragout. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from April to 
August. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



581. SOLES A LA MONTGOLFIER. 



2 soles. 

12 mushrooms. 

2 truffles. 

12 prawns. 



\ lb. whiting forcemeat 

(No. 200). 
^ pint white wine sauce 

(No. 119). 



1 gill fish stock. 

\ small onion chopped 

pepper. 

salt. 



1 tablespoonful salad oil. 
1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful malt vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Mix the salad oil, tarragon, and malt vinegars together. Add to them the 
chopped parsley and onion, season with pepper and salt. Fillet the soles, put each 
fillet in the above mixture, and let them soak for about fifteen minutes ; then take 
them out, drain, and wipe them. Lay them flat on a board, cover each fillet with 
a layer of whiting forcemeat, fold in half, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, 
season, and moisten \vith the fish stock. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook 
in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Warm up the white wine sauce, cook the 
mushroom-heads in a httle butter, add to the picked prawns and the truffles, cut 
in shces, moisten with some of the sauce thinned down. When the fish is done, 
dish it in a circle on a hot dish, strain the liquor left in the pan into the sauce, pour 
over the fish, put the garnish in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 



2 soles. 

shrimps. 

mushrooms. 



oysters, 
cooked potato. 
^ lemon. 



\ gill sherry, 
seasoning. 
\ oz. butter. 



582. FILETS DE SOLES A LA ROUEN (FILLETS OF SOLES, ROUEN STYLE). 

whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 

i gill fish stock. 

\ pint sauce vin blanc (No. 119). 

Remove the fillets from the soles, fold each in half, and lay them on a buttered 
tin. Season with salt, sprinkle each with a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour over 
them the sherry and fish stock, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and poach in 
the oven for about ten minutes. Have ready the whiting forcemeat, make this 
into rather smaU quenelles (No. 324), place them in a saute-pan with enough hot 
water to half-cover them, place a piece of buttered paper over, and cook very gently 
for ten minutes. Cook the mushrooms in the oven with a httle butter. Drain the 
oysters, remove the beards, and fry in hot butter. Mash some cooked potato, 
make a bed of it on a hot dish, dress the fillets of sole on this, overlapping one 
another. Mask the fish with vin blanc sauce, surround the base of the fish with 
alternate groups of picked shrimps, mushrooms, and quenelles. Place a fried 
oyster on each fillet. Serve immediately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, f hour. In season from September to 
April. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 123 

583. PAUPIETTES DE SOLES A LA ST. MICHEL (ROLLED FILLETS OF 

SOLES, ST. MICHEL STYLE). 



^ lemon. ^ gill white wine. 

cooked potatoes. | gill fish stock. 

1 tablespoonful of cream. supreme sauce (No. 74), 



2 soles. 

lobster meat. 

1 terrine of foie gras. 

Fillet the soles, remove the truffle from the foie gras, and put aside for garnish. 
Pass the foie gras through a sieve, mix with it the tablespoonful of cream, spread a 
layer of this on the skin side of the fillets of sole. Roll up each fillet, and place on 
a buttered tin. Sprinkle with salt and lemon-juice, pour over them the wine and 
fish stock, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten to 
fifteen minutes. Cut the lobster meat into neat pieces, warm up a little supreme 
sauce, wliich must not be too thick. Heat up the mashed potatoes, and make a 
circle of it on a hot dish. Take up the fillets, and arrange them on the potato 
border. Sauce over, and round with supreme sauce. Fill the centre with, the 
lobster mixture, ^vash the truffle which was taken from the foie gras, cut it in slices, 
and lay one on each paupiette. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 

584. SOLE MARINlfiRE. 

1 sole. 1 gill white wine. ' |^ gill white sauce (No. 88). I 2 egg-yolks. I lemon-juice. 

1 shallot. 12 oysters. ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. 2 ozs. tutter. seasoning. 

Butter a baking-tin with 1 oz. of butter, chop the shallot, and sprinkle it over 
the butter. Lay the sole on this, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Add 
the wine and oyster liquor, poach in the oven for about fifteen minutes. When 
cooked, drain the sole, and dish it. Beard the oysters, and put them round the 
sole. Strain the liquor in which the sole was cooked into a small ste\vpan, boil, and 
reduce to half the quantity. Add to it the white sauce, stir over the fire until hot, 
remove from the fire, and mix in the egg-yolks. Return to the fire to cook the eggs, 
but do not let the sauce boil. Add the remaining 1 oz. of butter gradually. Pour 
the sauce over the sole and the garnish, put it into the oven for a few minutes before 
serving, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable September to 
March. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

585. FILETS DE SOLES A LA VICTOR (FILLETS OF SOLES, VICTOR STYLE). 

2 soles. j parsley. I Cardinal sauce (No. 90). truffle. I fish stock (No. 316). 
^ lemon. shrimps. ' Venitienne sauce (No. 120). | white wine. | mashed potato. 

Fillet the soles, fold each ffllet in half, place in a buttered tin, season with salt 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Pour over | gill of white wine and 1 gill of fish stock. 
Cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. 
Have ready some mashed potato, bind it with a httle milk or egg, make into a border 
on a hot dish. Take up the fish, and coat four of the fillets with Cardinal sauce, and 
four with Venitienne sauce. Dish these up alternately on the border of potato. 
Decorate the Cardinal fillets with stars of truffle and a httle chopped parsley, the 
Venitienne fillets with stars of truffle and picked shrimps. Pour either Cardinal or 
Venitienne sauce round the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

586. FILETS DE SOLES A LA DIABLE (FILLETS OF SOLE WITH 

DEVILLED SAUCE). 
2 soles. I 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. | ^ pint devilled sauce (No. 31). | flour. | seasoning. 
Lift the fillets from the soles, flatten and trim them, roll up each ffllet, 
season with pepper and salt, dredge with flour, dip into beaten egg, and then 



124 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



into breadcrumbs. Fry them a golden bro^\^l in very hot fat. Drain them 
on paper, and put each into a paper ramequin-case. Pour the sauce over, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

587. FILETS DE SOLES DANOISE (FILLETS OF SOLES WITH DANISH 

SAUCE). 

2 soles. seasoning. \ \ pint sauce Danoise I 1 gill fish stock. 12 oysters. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 gill white wine. (No. 93). 1 12 mushrooms. lemon-juice. 

Skin the soles, cut down the back, and hft the fillets. Turn them over, and 
remove the imder fillets. Flatten and trim them, season with pepper and salt and 
lemon-juice, fold each fillet in half. Put 1 oz. of butter into a baking-tin, arrange 
the fillets on it, season again with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice. Pour in the wine 
and stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen 
minutes. Peel and prepare the mushrooms, cook them in butter ; beard the 
oysters, blanch them in their own liquor ; add these to the mushrooms, mix together 
\vith a httle thin sauce, and keep hot. When the fish is cooked, dish the fillets in a 
circle on a hot dish. Strain the cooking liquor in the pan into a small stewpan, 
reduce well, and add to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the fish, put the garnish 
in the centre, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



588. FILETS DE SOLES VERDI. 



2 soles. 

1 gill fish stock. 

4 ozs. macaroni. 



J gill cream. 

2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 

6 prawns. 



1 truffle. 

2 ozs. butter, 
lemon- juice. 



Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 
anchovy sauce (No. 85). 
seasoning. 



Fillet the soles, put 1 oz. of butter in a baking-tin, season the fillets with salt, 
pepper, and lemon-juice. Fold each one in half, and arrange them in the tin. Add 
the fish stock to them, season again, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the 
oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Boil the macaroni in salted water, drain when 
done, and cut it into dice. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put into it the macaroni, 
add the grated cheese and the pra^\^ls cut in dice, stir over the fire until hot, add 
the cream and seasoning. When the fish is cooked, take them up, and coat with 
Bearnaise sauce carefully. Decorate each fillet with a star of truffle cut out with a 
fancy cutter. Dish the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, put the garnish in the centre, 
and pour anchovy sauce round. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, i hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



589. FILETS DE SOLES A LA PIEMONTAISE. 



2 soles. ^ gill white wine. 

2 ozs. butter. | pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 



chopped parsley. 
8 florador croutons. 



Skin, fillet, and trim the soles. Fold each in half, season with salt, pepper, 
and lemon-juice. Put the butter in a baking-tin, arrange the fillets on it, 
add the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about ten 
minutes. When the fish is nearly done, take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce 
over. Return to the oven for a few minutes longer. Before sending to table, 
decorate with truffle on each fillet, and garnish the centre with small florador 
croutons. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, f hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 125 



590. TURBAN DE FILETS DE SOLES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (TURBAN OF 
FILLETS OF SOLES WITH MUSHROOMS). 



2 or 3 whitings. 
^ gill fish stock. 



^ gill cream, 
seasoning. 



3 soles. 1 oz. butter. preserved mushrooms. 

2 eggs. 1 oz. flour. Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Fillet the soles, butter a border-mould, and arrange the fillets in this, so as to 
entirely line the mould with them. Season the fillets with salt and pepper. Remove 
the flesh from the whitings, and chop it finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir 
in the flour, add the fish stock, and cook over the fire until very thick. Put this 
mixture into a mortar with the whiting meat and the eggs, season with pepper and 
salt, and pound well. Rub through a wire sieve, and then fill up the border-mould 
with it. Place the ends of the fillets of soles over the top, cover with buttered paper, 
and steam gently in the oven for about thirty minutes. Warm up the preserved 
mushrooms in a little butter, turn out the border on a hot dish, fill the centre wit h 
the mushrooms, and pour Bechamel sauce round the dish. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, | hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons 




Fia. 11. — Turban de Filets de Soles aux Cuampignons. 



BARBUE (BRILL) 

591. BARBUE A LA MONTGOLFIER (BRILL, MONTGOLFIER STYLE). 



1 brill. 

2 carrots. 
2 onions. 



buoquet garni. 

^ pint Chabhs wine. 

^ pint stock. 



sauce Venitienne (No. 120). lobster coral. 

12 quenelles (Nos. 200 and 12 oysters. 

324). truffle. 

Trim the tail and fins of a medium-sized brill, cut the carrots and onions 
into slices, make a bed of these vegetables at the bottom of a fish-kettle, add the 
bouquet garni, the wine, and stock. Place the brill on this, season, and cook imtil 
the fish is done. Blanch and fry the oysters, prepare the quenelles, colour them 
with lobster coral, and poach. Keep hot. When the fish is ready, lift it on to a 
dish, cov^er with the sauce, and garnish with the oysters and quenelles arranged 
alternately round the dish. Put some thin sUces of truffle down the centre of the 
fish. Serve with some of the sauce separate. 

Average cost, from 4s. to 6s. each. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable August 
to April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



126 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



592. FILETS DE BARBUE AU BEARNAISE (FILLETS OF BRILL WITH 

BEARNAISE). 



1 brill filleted (small). 
1 glass Chablis. 
truffles. 



mashed potato, 
salt. 



Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 

\ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 

tomato sauce (No. 77). pepper. 

Trim the fillets, season them, and cover one side with whiting forcemeat. Fold 
each fillet in half, smooth the sides of the fillets mth a knife, lay them on a buttered 
tin, season with salt and pepper again, add the wine, cover with a buttered paper, 
and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes, or until the fish is tender. Shape 
a roll of mashed potato, put it down the centre of a hot dish, dress the fillets on this, 
cover them all over with Bearnaise sauce, sprinkle each fillet with chopped truffle, 
pour tomato sauce round the base, and serve. 

Average cost, from 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
August to April. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 



593. FILETS DE BARBUE A L'ANDALOUSE (FILLETS OF BRILL, 

ANDALUSIAN STYLE). 



1 filleted brill. 
3 tomatees. 



^ gill white wine. tomato sauce (No. lemon-juice. salt, 

risotto (No. 543). 77). butter. pepper. 

Fold the fillets in half, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Put them on 
a buttered tin, add the wine, cover "vvith buttered paper, and cook in the oven for 
ten minutes. When done, drain them, and dress down the centre of a dish. Cut 
the tomatoes in halves, press out the seeds, fill \vith risotto, put into the oven for a 
few minutes, but do not cook them too much, so that they lose their shape. Garnish 
round the dish with these. Strain the liqour from the fish into the tomato sauce, 
and send it up separately. Garnish the fillets with chopped truffle or parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost, from 5s. to 6s. Time required, f hour. In season from August 
to April. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 



594. FILETS DE BARBUE A LA FLORENTINE (FILLETS OF BRILL WITH 

SPINACH). 



1 briU (small). 
1 gill fiJsh stock. 



seasonmg. 
3 lbs. spinach. 



Parmesan cheese. 
2 ozs. butter. 



I pint Momay sauce (No. 
110). 

Fillet the brill, and cut each fillet into heart-shaped pieces. Take off the black 
sldn. With \ oz. of the butter rub over a baking-tin or saute-pan, arrange the 
pieces of fish in it, season them with pepper and salt, and add the fish stock. Butter 
a piece of paper, and cover the fish with it. Place in a moderate oven, and cook 
for about ten to fifteen minutes. In the meanwhile prepare the spinach, pick and 
jv^ash it in several waters, put | pint of water into a large saucepan ; when boihng, 
put in the spinach, add a little salt, and boil for about ten minutes, or until the 
spinach is tender. Press the spinach down with a wooden spoon as it cooks. When, 
tender, turn the spinach into a cullender, press all the water out, put the spinach 
on a chopping-board, and chop it finely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, and 
as soon as it is hot put in the spinach, and mix the butter into it. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. A little cream added is a great improvement. Turn the 
spinach out on to a hot dish, make a bed of it, and on this dress the fillets of 
brill. Pour over the Mornay sance, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese grated. Melt 
the remainder of the butter in a small saucepan, and pour it over the top. Put 
the dish into a hot oven to brown the surface. Take up when done, and serve 
quickly. 

Average cost, according to size of brill, 4s. to 6s. Time required, 45 mmutes 
Seasonable August to April. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons, according to size. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 127 



595. FILETS DE BARBUE A L'INDIENNE (FILLETS OF BRILL, INDIAN 

STYLE). 



1 brill. 
I lb. rice. 



1 gill port ■wine. 



3 gills tomato sauce. 



3 ozs. butter. 
salt and pepper. 



2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls curry-powder. 

Take off the dark skin of the brill, lift the fillets, and cut each into heart-shaped 
pieces. Mix together the flour and curry-powder, add to them about ^ teaspoonfui 
of salt, and half that of pepper. Dip the pieces of fish into this. Melt 2 ozs. of 
butter in a frying-pan ; when hot, put in the fillets, and fry until done. Boil the 
rice in plenty of boihng salted water for about fifteen minutes ; when tender, drain 
and wash it under the tap until every grain is separate, spread it out on a baking- 
sheet, and put into a cool oven to dry and get hot, turning it over occasionally with 
a fork. Put the rice on a hot dish, make a flat bed, and dress the fillets on it, and 
keep warm. Pour the butter away from the pan in which the fish was cooked, add 
the port ^vine and the tomato sauce, reduce until of the right consistency, season 
with salt and a small pinch of curry-powder, mix in carefully the rest of the butter, 
pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. to 6s. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable August 
to April. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 



596. FILETS DE BARBUE A LA VILLENEUVE. 



1 briU. 
seasoning. 



Parmesan cheese. 
1 gill fish stock. 



J gill Soubise sauce 
(No. 75). 



butter- 
truffle. 



J pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 
lemon-juice. 

Skin the brill, cut down the backbone with a sharp knife, and remove the fillets. 
Break up the bones, put them into a saucepan with a piece of onion and half a bay- 
leaf, cover with milk and water, season, bring to the boil, and simmer for twenty 
minutes. Strain the stock ready for use. Cut the fillets of brill into heart-shaped 
pieces, place them on a buttered baking-tin, take 1 gill of the prepared stock and 
add to the fish, season the fillets with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Cover with a 
buttered paper, and place in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Heat the Mornay 
sauce in a stewpan, add the Soubise sauce to it, and stir mitil it boils. When the 
fish is cooked, dress it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, sprinkle Avdth Parmesan 
cheese and melted butter, bake in a hot oven a golden colour. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable August to 
April. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

597. FILETS DE BARBUE A LA DIVA (FILLETS OF BRILL, DIVA STYLE). 

1 tablespoonful cream. 
^ pint Hollandaise sauce 
(No. 101). 

Fillet the brill, take off the skin, and cut each fillet in neat pieces. Put 2 ozs. 
of butter in a baking-tin, lay the fish on it, add the fish stock, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven until half done. Meanwhile, beard the oysters, cut 
them in dice, and cook in their o^vn liquor. Drain them, and save the liquor. Cut 
up the mushrooms in the same way, and put with the oysters. Melt | oz. of butter 
in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, add the ^ gill of oyster-hquor, boil until thick, 
let it cool a minute, then add the yolk. Cook over the fire without boiling, stir in 
the cream, season to taste mth salt, cayenne, and a httle lemon- juice. Mix in the 
oysters and mushrooms, turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When this prepara- 
tion is cold, put a small portion of it on each piece of fillet, cover over with the 
forcemeat, smooth the surface with a knife dipped in warm water. Cut the truffles 
in fancy shapes, and decorate each piece of fish. Arrange them in a baking-tin 
with some fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven slowly for ten 
minutes. When done, dish up, and serve Hollandaise sauce separately. 

Average cost, 6s. to 8s. Time required, 1 hour. In season August to April. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

PT. II, 



1 brill. 


2 ozs. butter. 


A gill oyster liquor. 


1 lb. whiting forcemeat 


9 oysters. 


^ oz. butter. 


1 yolk of egg. 


(No. 200). 


truffles. 


1 oz. flour. 


1 gill fish stock. 


9 preserved mushrooms. 



9 



128 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



MERLAN (WHITING) 

598. SOUFFLE DE MERLAN (WHITING SOUFFLE). 

whiting (8 ozs. free from skin and bone). I 2 ozs. butter. | pint milk. whites of 4 egs^. 

^ teaspoonful anchovy essence. I 2 ozs. flour. | yolks of 3 eggs, pepper and salt. 

Pound the whiting in a mortar until very fine. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
mix in the flour, add the milk, and stir until it boils. Cook until thick, and the 
mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the pan. Take off the fire, and let it cool ; 
then add it to the fish in the mortar. Poimd well together, adding the yolks of 
eggs by degrees. Season with salt, pepper, and the anchovy essence. Whip up 
the whites of eggs very stiffly, stir lightly into the mixture. Have ready a souffle- 
tin well buttered, tie a band of buttered paper round the top. Turn the mixture 
into the prepared mould, and steam or bake for about thirty to forty minutes. As 
soon as the souffle is sufficiently cooked, take off the paper, dish up, and send to 
table as quickly as possible. Serve a fish sauce with it separately. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year, but best 
from October to February. Sufficient for 5 persons. 




Fia. 12. — Souffle be Merlan. 



599. QUENELLES DE MERLAN A LE RAVIGOTE (QUENELLES OF 
WHITING WITH RAVIGOTE SAUCE). 



^ lb. whiting meat. 
I oz. butter. 



1 oz. flour. 

^ gill fish stock. 



1 whole egg. 

ravigote sauce (No. 72). 



salt. 
pepper. 



Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and, when smooth, add the atock. 
Bring to the boil, and cook until very thick, stirring quickly aU the time. Let it 
cool. Pound the whiting meat in a mortar, add the panada and the egg gradually. 
Pound all well together, season with pepper and salt, and pass the mixture through 
a wire sieve. Shape the mixture into quenelles with two dessert-spoons (No. 324), 
poach them in boiling water for ten minutes. When cooked, lift them out of the 
water, drain on a cloth, arrange on a hot dish in a circle, and pour the sauce over 
them. The centre of the dish can be filled with a garnish, consisting of shrimps, 
prawns, or oysters, mixed with a Kttle of the sauce. The dish is now ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year, but 
beat from October to February. Sufficient to make 6 quenelles. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 129 



4 whiting. 

12 mushrooms. 



1 gill stock. 
3 ozs. butter. 



600. PAUPIETTES DE MERLAN A LA HOLLANDAISE). 

1 lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 12 oysters. 

^ pint Hollandaise sauce. seasoning. 

Fillet the whiting and take off the skin, season them with pepper and salt, put 
over each fillet a layer of the forcemeat, roll up the fillets, wrap each in a piece of 
butteied paper, and place them on a baking-sheet with 1 oz. of butter and the 
stock. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. 
Fill a shallow border-mould with the remainder of the forcemeat, steam it in the 
oven or in a steamer for fifteen minutes. Trim and cook the mushrooms in 2 ozs. 
of butter, beard and blanch the oysters, cut them in halves, and put with the mush- 
rooms. Now turn out the border-mould on to a hot dish, dish the paupiettes neatly 
on the top, and put the prepared garnish in the centre and pour the sauce round 
the base of the border. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 




Fia. 13. — Merlan a l'Horly. 



601. MERLAN A L'HORLY (WHITING FRIED IN BATTER). 



1 whiting. I fried parsley, 
seasoning. [ ^ tablespoonful vinegar. 



1 tablespoonful salad 
oil. 



1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



Fob the Batter. 



2 ozs. flour. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 



salt. 

1 tablespoonful milk. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). 

2 eggs. 

Make the batter first, as it is better for standing. Sieve the flour into a basin, 
add to it the yolks of eggs, milk, and oil gradually. Beat well for a few minutea 
until smooth, put this on one side until the fish is ready to fry. Mix together the 
oil and vinegar, chopped onion, parsley, pepper, and salt. Fillet the whiting, and, 
if large, cut each fillet into three pieces. Put these into the oil and vinegar, and 
soak them in it for ten minutes. Just before frying, beat up the two wliites of 
eggs very stiffly, and stir hghtly into the batter. Dip each piece of fish into tiie 
batter, and fry in very hot fat. Dish up on a dish, paper, or napkin, and garnish 
^\^th fried parsley. Serve separately some tomato sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 

9—2 



130 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



602. MERLAN A LA COLBERT. 



3 whitings, 
a little flour. 



1 egg. maitre d'hotel butter lemon. I pepper, 

breadcrumbs. (No. 180). parsley. | salt. 

Cut the whitings doAvn the back, and take out the backbones, leaving the head 
and tail intact. Season the fish, dredge them with flour, dip in egg, toss in bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in deep fat a golden colour. When cooked, drain them, dish 
on a hot dish, and stuff them vnth. maitre d'hotel butter. Garnish the dish with 
slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

603. FILETS DE MERLANS BROCHETTES (FILLETS OF WHITING ON 

SKEWERS). 
4 small whitings. | butter. | breadcrumbs. | chopped parsley. | boiled potatoes. 

Fillet the whitings, skin and trim them, season with pepper and salt, roll them 
up, and place on skewers. Dip in butter, then in breadcrumbs, and grill them like 
kidneys. Take the trimmings and bones of the whiting, put them in a saucepan 
with just enough water to cover, reduce well, strain into a clean stewpan, add to it 
some butter and chopped parsley. Take the fillets off the skewers, dish them, and 
pour the sauce over. Serve with plain boiled potatoes. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

604. MERLAN A L'ANGLAISE (WHITING, ENGLISH STYLE). 

4 whitings. | egg. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). | breadcrumbs. | seasoning. 

Cut the whitings down the back, and remove the spine. Season them inside, 
dredge with flour, egg and crumb them, and fry in smoking fat a golden brown. 
When done, drain them on paper, dish on a hot dish, and put into the opening in 
their backs a good piece of maitre d'hotel butter. Serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



PLIE (PLAICE) 

605. FRIED PLAICE. 



1 plaice. 
1 



breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 



anchovy sauce (No. fried parsley. pepper. 
85). frying fat. salt. 

Lift the fillets from the plaice, wash and dry them, cut each fillet in half, slanting. 
Mix the flour with a teaspoonful of salt, and half that of pepper. Dip each piece 
of fish in it. Break the egg on to a plate, beat a httle ; then brush the fish over 
with it, toss in breadcrumbs. Heat the fat in a stewpan, and as soon as a blue 
smoke rises from it put in the pieces of fish, and fry them a golden brown. Lift 
the fillets out as soon as cooked, put them on paper to drain. Dish in a circle on 
a dish paper, or napkin, and garnish the centre with fried parsley. The anchovy 
sauce should be made from stock, using the bones of the plaice for the purpose. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year ; 
best May to December. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

606. FILETS DE PLIE A LTNDIENNE (FILLETS OF PLAICE, INDIAN STYLE). 

1 egg. 1 tablespoonful curry- 2 ozs. butter. flour. 

1 onion. powder. 1 gill rice. seasoning. 

Prepare and cook the fish as in previous recipe, boil the rice in the same way 
as for curry, with all the grains separate. Slice the onion, melt the butter in a 
stewpan, put in the onion, and fry brown ; then add the curry-powder, stir it into 
the onion and butter, cook for a few minutes ; then add the rice and a httle more 



1 filleted plaice, 
breadcrumbs. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 131 

butter, mix all well together. When thoroughly hot, turn out on to a hot dish, 
shape it into a pyramid, dress the fillets round it, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

607. FILETS DE PLIE FRICASSEE (STEWED FILLETS OF PLAICE). 

1 filleted plaice. 3 gills white sauce (No. 88). a few capers. seasoning, 

lemon-juice. chopped parsley. 1 gill wine. butter. 

Cut the fillets into nice pieces, put them on to a buttered baking-sheet, season 
wth salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Add the wine, cover with a buttered paper, 
and cook them in the oven until half done. Heat the sauce in a saucepan or a 
saute-pan, put the fish into it, also the cooking hquor, simmer very gently for five 
or six minutes. Dish the fillets, strain the sauce over it, and garnish each fillet 
^vith capers and chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persona. 




Fia. 14. — Fkied Plaice. 



608. FILETS DE PLIE A LA PERIGOURDINE (FILLETS OF PLAICE, 

PERIGOURDINE). 

1 egg. truffles. ^ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

fish stock. lemon. 1 oz. prawn or shrimp butter 

breadcrumbs. prawns. (No. 186). 



1 large plaice. 

^ lb. cooked potatoes. 

I oz. butter. 



Take the dark skin off the plaice, raise the fillets, and cut into smaller pieces if 
the fillets are too large. Place in a buttered tin, season with salt and a squeeze of 
lemon-juice, moisten with 1 gill of fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook 
in the oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Rub the I lb. of potatoes through a sieve, 
raelt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the potato, season to taste, and bind with the 
yolk of an egg. Shape this mixture into small balls, egg and breadcrumb them, 
And fry in hot fat. Have ready some mashed potato, make a border with it on a 
hot dish, and dress the fillets of plaice on this. Heat up the veloute sauce, mix 
into it the shrimp or prawn butter, coat the fillets with, it, and pour some round 
the base of the dish. Place the potato-balls in the centre of the dish, and garnish 
each fillet ^\'ith picked prawns and a little truffio cut in fancy shapes. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



132 THE WEAL COOKERY BOOK 

609. FILETS DE PLIE A L'ESPAGNOLE (FILLETS OF PLAICE WITH 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE). 

1 filleted plaice. I 3 gills Espagnole sauce. lemon, 

clioijped parsley. I 8 anchovy fillets. - seasoning. 

Cut the fillets in half, flour them, sprinkle ^\^th pepper and salt, and fry a nice 
colour in hot dripping or lard in a frying-jDan. Heat the sauce, put in the fish, and 
cook a little, taking care not to let the fish break. Dish the fillets on a hot dish in 
a circle, strain the sauce over, put a rolled fillet of anchovy in the centre of each, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and place in the oven for two minutes to get 
thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish with quarters of lemon, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. kSeasonable at any time. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

610. FILETS DE PLIE AU VIN BLANC (FILLETS OF PLAICE WITH 

WHITE WINE). 
1 filleted plaice. | lemon. | ^ pint white "nine sauce (No. 119). | 1 gill fish stock. | seasoning. 
Trim the fillets, season them wdth salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Fold each one 
in half, and put them on a buttered baking-sheet with the fish stock. Cover with 
a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dish them overlapping 
each other straight down the dish, pour the sauce over, and sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley on each fillet. Serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

RAIE (SKATE) 

611. RAIE, SAUCE REMOULADE (SKATE WITH REMOULADE SAUCE). 
2 lbs. skate. | 1 carrot. | \ pint Remoulade sauce (No. 140). | 1 small onion. | salt. 

Slice the carrot and onion, put the fish in a saucepan vnth. enough water to 
cover, add some salt and the sliced vegetables, and boil until it is done. When 
cooked, take it up, drain well, and dish up. Send the sauce up separately. 

Average cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable August 
to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

612. RAIE AU BEURRE NOIR (SKATE WITH BLACK BUTTER). 



2 lbs. skate. I ^ bay -leaf. bouquet garni (No. 194). 
2 ozs. butter. | pepper. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. 



^ onion. I 1 teaspoonful chopped 
salt. I parsley. 



Boil the fish in sufficient water to cover it, add salt, the onion sliced, bay-leaf, 
and herbs. When cooked, take it up, drain, and dish. Put the butter into a frying- 
pan, and heat it mitil it is a nu-t-brown colour ; then take it off the stove, add the 
vinegar and parsley, pour over the fish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable August 
to April. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

EPERLANS (SMELTS) 

613. EPERLANS FRITS (FRIED SMELTS). 
12 smelts. | beaten egg. | breadcrumbs. | a little flour. | pepper. | salt. | fried parsley. | lemon. 

Wipe the smelts, cut off the fins. Mix a little salt and pepper with the flour, 
dip each smelt into it, then into beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in plenty 
of very hot fat. When cooked, dish them up on a napkin or dish-paper on a hot 
dish, garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemons, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable October 
to May. Sufficient for C persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 133 

614. EPERLANS GRILLES. 



parsley, 
lemon. 



12 smelts. a little flour, j tomato sauce (No. 
salt. oil. I 77). 

Split the smelts down the back, cut away the spine, leaving a piece at the tail 
and one at the head. Season with salt, dredge with a little flour, sprinkle with oil, 
and grill over a quick fire. Dish them on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley 
and slices of lemon. Send the sauce up separately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable October 
to May. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



12 smelts. 

^ gill white wine. 

seasoning. 



butter. 

J lemon. 

breadcrumbs. 



615. EPERLANS AU GRATIN. 

1 tablespoonful cooked fine herbs. 
^ pint Italian sauce (No. 41). 
chopped parsley. 

Wipe the smelts, take out the backbone as in previous recipe, rub some butter 
on a gratin dish, sprinkle with the fine herbs, add the wine, a little salt, and pepper. 
Put in the oven, and half -cook them. Cover with Italian sauce, sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and melted butter, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Before 
serving, sprinkle over them the juice of half a lemon and some chopped parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable October to Ma}^ 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

616. EPERLANS EN BROCHETTES (SMELTS ON SKEWERS). 
12 smelts. | a little flour. | 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. | seasoning. 
Dry the fish, dredge them with a little flour, dip in beaten egg, and toss in bread- 
crumbs. Run a thin skewer through the eyes, four or six smelts to each skewer. 
Heat the frying-fat, and, when smoking, put in the smelts, and fry them a golden 
bro-vATi. Take them up, drain them on paper, dish up, and serve wdth parsley and 
slices of lemon. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable October 
to May, Sufficient for 6 persons. 

617. SOUFFLE D'EPERLANS (SOUFFLE OF SMELTS). 

12 smelts. I 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill cream. salt. 

2 whitings. ! HoUandaise sauce (No. 101). truffle. pepper. 

Clean and wipe the smelts, fillet them. Remove the skin and bone from the 
whiting, cut up the flesh, put it with the fillets of smelt into a mortar, and pound 
well. Add the whites of eggs, pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and rub 
through a fine \vire sieve. Whip the cream, and mix carefully with the mixture. 
Grease a plain timbale mould, put in the forcemeat, and steam slowly for half an 
hour. When cooked, turn out, decorate to taste with the truffle, and serve with 
HoUandaise sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable October to May. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

618. EPERLANS A LA DUCHESSE (SMELTS, DUCHESS STYLE). 

1 oz. butter 



beaten egg. 
breadcrumbs. 
Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 



12 smelts. I whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 

3 shallots. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley. salt. 

6 mushrooms. | ^ teaspoonful chopped chervil. pepper. 

Chop the shallots and the mushrooms, melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the 
chopped shallots, and fry without bro\ATiing ; then add the mushrooms, the parsley, 
and chervil. Cook all together for a few minutes until the moisture from the mush- 
rooms has evaporated. Mix the.se cooked fine herbs, when cold, with the Avhiting 
forcemeat. Split the smelts, and take out the spine-bone without tearing the fish. 



134 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Fill them with the stufiing, put them back into their original shape, dip them in 
beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat. Drain them on paper 
when cooked, dish up, and send to table garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 
Serve Bearnaise sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable October to May. 
Sufificient for 6 persons. 

BLANCHAILLES (WHITEBAIT) 

619. BLANCHAILLES FRITS (FRIED WHITEBAIT). 
1 pint whitebait. | salt. | pepper. | brown bread and butter. | flour. | frying fat. ] lemon 
Drain the whitebait, dry them in a cloth, sprinkle well with flour, put them on 
to a wire sieve, shake well so as to separate each fish, and to free them from super- 
fluous flour. Heat the fat in a stewpan, large enough to hold a frying-basket and 
with sufficient fat to cover. Shake the fish into the wire basket, plunge it into the 
boiling fat, and fry for two minutes. Shake gently while they are frying. When 




Fia. 15. — Fried Whitebait. 



cooked, turn them on to paper to drain off the fat, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Dish up on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. Thin 
brown bread and butter should be served with it. 

Average cost, Is. a pint. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable February to 
August. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

620. BLANCHAILLES A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED WHITEBAIT). 

1 pint whitebait. | salt. | brown bread and butter. | cayenne. | frying fat. | bmon. 
Fry the fish as in preceding recipe. When the fish are fried, turn them on to 
paper to drain, and sprinkle salt and a good pinch of cayenne over them. Serve 
with lemon and brown bread and butter. 

621. BLANCHAILLES AU CURRY (CURRIED WHITEBAIT). 
1 pint whitebait. | lemon. | 1 teaspoonful curry-powder. | salt. | brown bread and butter. I pepper. 
Fry the fish as in preceding recipes. When the fish are fried, turn them on to 
paper to drain, sprinkle over them the curry-powder, salt, and pepper. Serve with 
lemon, and thin shces of brown bread and butter. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 135 

622. BLANCHAILLES AUX FINES HERBES (WHITEBAIT WITH FINE HERBS). 

1 pint whitebait. ^ toaspoonful chopped tarragon I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. pepper, 
lemon. and chervil. I broAvn bread and butter. , salt. 

Fry the iBsh as in former recipes. Drain when cooked, and sprinkle with ualt, 
popper, and the chopped herbs. Serve with lemon-shces, and thin brown bread and 
butter. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable February to 
August. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

623. MELETTES FRITES (FRIED SPRATS). 
1 lb. sprats. | flour. ) egg. | bro^\^l bread and butter. | breadcrumbs. | salt. I lemon 

Wipe the sprats, dip them in flour and salt, then into egg and breadcrumbs, fn,- 
in very hot fat ; or they can be dusted with flour only, and fried in a frying-pan for 
about eight minutes. Serve them with lemon, and brown bread and butter. 

Average cost, 2d. per lb. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable November 
to April. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

MAQUEREAUX (MACKEREL) 

624. MAQUEREAU BOUILLI, SAUCE GROSEILLES (BOILED MACKEREL 

WITH GOOSEBERRY SAUCE). 

I large mackerel. | gooseberry sauce (Xo. 97). | parsley. | salt. 

Prepare the fish, put it into boiling water \vith some salt, and boil until done. 
When cooked, take up the mackerel, drain, and dish on a folded napkin on a hoi 
dish, and garnish with parsley. Serve the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable April to November. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

625. FILETS DE MAQUEREAUX SAUCE AU BEURRE NOIR (MACKEREL 

FILLETS WITH BLACK BUTTER SAUCE). 

2 mackerel. I 2 ozs. butter. ^ gill tarragon vinegar. | teaspoonful anchovy essence, salt. 

oil. I fried parsley. | gill brown sauce (No. 6). | teaspoonful chopped parsley. I pepper. 

Cut the mackerel down the back, take off the fillets, season with pepper and 
salt, rub them over with oil, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and, when 
done, dish on a hot dish. Put the butter into a frying-pan on the fire, and stir it 
until it browns ; then mix in the vinegar, anchovy essence, and brown sauce. Boil 
these together for five minutes, then add the parsley, and pour over the mackerel. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable April to November. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

ROUGET (RED MULLET) 

626. ROUGET EN PAPILLOTE (RED MULLET IN PAPER CASES). 
2 mullets. | Duxello sauce (No. 30). | salt. | pepper. | oil. | lemon-juice. 

Wipe the mullets, cut them in parallel cuts through the skin about ^ inch apart, 
season with salt and pepper, rub over with oil, and sprinkle with a few drops of 
lemon- juice. Put them on a grill over a clear fire, and cook for about twenty 
minutes. Wrap the mullets in strong oiled paper, putting a layer of well-reduced 
Duxelle sauce under and over it, fold the paper over, fasten the ends, and place 
them in the oven for five minutes. Serve them at once in the paper cases. 

Average cost of fish. Is to Is. 6d. each. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at any time. Sufficient for 2 persons. 



136 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

627 ROUGETS AUX FINES HERBES (RED MULLETS WITH FINE HERBS). 

3 mullets. \ gill white wine. | teaspoonful chopped parsley, j J oz. flour, j 2 oz. butter. 
1 truffle. 1 chopped shallot, salt and pepper. , lemon-juice. | 4 mushrooms. 

Put the mullets into a baking-tin with 1 oz. of butter, sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
and lemon-juice. Add the wine, and put them into the oven to bake. When 
cooked, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, 
chop the mushrooms, shallot, and truffle. Put these into the melted butter, and 
fry a little ; then stir in the flour, add the liquor from the fish, the juice of half a 
lemon, chopped parsley, and seasoning. Cook over the fire for a few minutes, 
pour the sauce over the mullets, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. to Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable July to 
October. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 

628. ROUGETS EN FILETS A LA BORDELAISE (FILLETS OF MULLET 

WITH BORDEAUX SAUCE). 

3 red mullets. | gill sherry. \ \ gill stock. pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. lemon-juice. I J pint Bordeaux sauce (No. 11). salt. 

Clean and wash the mullet, cut them down the back, and lift the fillets. Put 
the butter on a baking-tin, place the fish on it, season with pepper, salt, and lemon- 
juice. Add the wine and stock, cover it with a buttered paper, and put them in the 
oven for about twenty minutes. When cooked, remove the paper, dish up the fillets, 
take all fat away from the liquor in the pan, add to the sauce, make thoroughly hot, and 
pour round the fish. The remainder of sauce can be sent to table in a sauce-tureen. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable July to October. 
Sufiicient for 6 persons. 

629. ROUGETS BRAISES AUX TOMATES (MULLETS BRAISED WITH 

TOMATO SAUCE). 

3 red mullets, j 1 gill white stock. salt. 1 carrot. I ^ teaspoonful chopped 

1 oz. butter. j ^ gill white wine. pepper. \ lemon. parsley. 

6 peppercorns. 1 gill tomato puree. ! 2 shallots. 1| ozs. butter. I 1 tablespoonful meat glaze. 

Clean and wash the mullets ; slice the shallots and carrot. Melt 1 oz. of butter 
in a stewpan large enough to hold the mullets ; when hot, put in the vegetables, 
and fry them a little. Lay the fish on the top of the vegetables, season them, add 
the stock, wine, and peppercorns. Put a buttered piece of paper over the mullets, 
cover with a tight-fitting hd, and put the whole thing into the oven for about 
twenty minutes. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, and keep warm 
Strain the liquor in the stewpan into a clean pan, add to it the tomato puree, and 
boil to a good consistency. Add the meat glaze, the lemon-juice, the parsley, and, 
lastly, the 1| ozs. of butter — this is added gradually. Season to taste. Pour this 
sauce over the fish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes^ Seasonable July to October. 
Sufficient for 6 persons, 

630. FILETS DE ROUGETS A L'lTALIENNE (FILLETS OF RED MULLETS 

WITH ITALIAN SAUCE). 

4 mullets. | butter. | lemon-juice. | Italian sauce (No. 41). | salt. | pepper. 

Fillet the mullets, butter a baking-tin, lay the fillets on it, season them witn 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate 
oven for about ten to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the fish. Warm the 
Italian sauce. '^^ there is any liquor in the tin in which the mullets were cooked, 
add it to the SaUce. Dress the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost of mullets, 9d. to 2s. each. Time required, 20 to 30 minutes. 
Seasonable July to October. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 137 

631. ROUGETS A LA CHESTERFIELD. 

4 mullets. 1 glass white wine. I crayfish tails. pepper. 

1 oz. butter. | truffles. I Genoise sauce (No. 99). salt. 

Butter a baking-tin with 1 oz. of butter, lay the mullets on it, season, add the 
wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about ten to fifteen 
minutes. When the mullets are cooked, dish them, and keep hot. Strain the 
cooking-liquor of the fish into the sauce, make very hot, and pour it over the fish. 
Garnish round the mullets with small truffles and crayfish tails, which have been 
heated in a little thin sauce or glaze, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season July to October. 
Sufiicient for 4 persons. 

GRONDIN (GURNET) 

632. FILETS DE GRONDIN A L'lTALIENNE (FILLETS OF GURNET, 

ITALIAN STYLE). 

^ gill cream. 



1 medium -sized gurnet. 
I teaspoonful parsley. 
6 preserved mushrooms. 



lemon-juice. 

2 gills fish stock. 

J oz. flour. 



pepper. 

salt. 



2 ozs. butter. 

2 shallots. 

1 gill white wine. 

Scale and clean the gurnet, take off the fillets, and cut each fillet in half. Butter 
a baking-tin, arrange on it the pieces of fish, season them with salt, pepper, and 
lemon- juice. Add the fish stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Chop the shallots and mushrooms, put 
them into a small saucepan with the wine, boil until the wine is reduced to a third 
of the quantity, stir in the fiour ; then, when the fish is cooked, strain the liquor 
from the baking-tin into the saucepan. Stir until it boils, season to taste, add the 
cream, make the sauce quite hot, but do not let it boil again. Dish the fillets on a 
hot dish in a circle, pour the sauce over, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on each 
fillet, and serve hot. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufiicient for 3 persons. 

633. FILETS DE GRONDIN A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL (FILLETS OF GURNET, 

WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE). 



1 medium -sized gurnet. 



chopped parsley. lemon-juice. 



1 oz. butter. 



maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 
109). 



salt, 
pepper. 



Scale and clean the gurnet, take off the fillets, and cut each in half. Put tho 
butter into a baking-tin, arrange the fillets in it, season them with pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice. Cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about 
twenty minutes. When cooked, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
over, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley on each fillet. Serve at once. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

634. FILETS DE GRONDIN, SAUCE MATELOTE (FILLETS OF GURNET, 

MATELOTE SAUCE). 

1 medium-sized gurnet. ■ ^ pint matelote sauce (No. breadcrumbs. 

1 egg. I 108). mashed potatoes. 

Fillet the gurnet, cut each fillet in half, beat the egg, dip the fillets into it ; then 
toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them in boihng fat or oil a hght-brown colour. Arrange 
a border of mashed potato on a dish, dress the fillets in the centre, pour the sauce 
over them, and serve. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



138 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

635. FILETS DE ST. PIERRE A LA GENOISE (FILLETS OF JOHN DORY, 

GENOISE STYLE). 

Genoise sauce (No. 99). 



1 John Dory. 

J gill picked shrimps. 



whiting forcemeat (No. 200). 
1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 



seasonmg. 



Remove the fillets from the John Dory, and cut into nice-sized pieces. Make 
the whiting forcemeat, mix with it the shrimps very finely chopped, and the anchovy 
essence. Mix thoroughly, season, and rub through a sieve. Spread the skin side 
of each fillet with a layer of this mixture, fold them in halves, and lay on a buttered 
tin. Season with salt, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten to 
fifteen minutes. Have ready some mashed potato, make a bed of it on a hot disli, 
take up the fillets, and arrange them on the potato. Heat up the Genoise sauce, 
pour over the fillets, and round the base of the dish. Garnish the fillets ^\^th a few 
picked shrimps, and a little chopped parsley. Send to table at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

ANGUILLE (EEL) 

636. ANGUILLE A LA HOLLANDAISE (EEL WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE). 

1 eel weighing about 2 lbs. I parsley. 6 peppercorns. 

1 large onion. 1 salt. 1 bay-leaf. 1 gill vinegar. 

Clean the eel, and wash it well. Tie it up with string, place in a saucepan of 
cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Take it up, and drain. Place in a pan 
with sufficient boiling water to cover, add the onion (peeled and cut in quarters), 
the vinegar, peppercorns, bay-leaf, salt, and a few sprigs of parsley. Let this 
simmer gently for about thirty minutes. Take it up, drain well, and dish on a 
folded napkin. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve Hollandaise sauce 
separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from June to 
March. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

637. ANGUILLE A LA ROYALE (EEL, ROYAL STYLE). 



Hollandaise sauce (No. 101). 



1 eel. i 1 onion. 



2 yokes of eggs. 



2 ozs. butter. 
6 peppercorns. ^ pint stock. ^ oz. flour. ^ pint Allemande sauce (No. 1). 

Skin and clean the eel, cut into pieces, place in a saucepan of cold water, and 
bring slowly to the boil. Peel and slice the onion, melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, 
and stir the onion in it over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the stock, 
add the peppercorns and the pieces of eel, cover with a piece of buttered paper, 
and cook gently for about thirty minutes. Take up the eel, and arrange neatly 
on a hot dish. Melt the remaining oz. of butter, mix in the flour, and moisten 
mth the stock in which the eel was cooked. Stir over the fire until boiling, let it 
simmer for a few minutes ; then take off the fire, and allow it to cool shghtly. Put 
in the two yolks, stir over the fire imtil the eggs are cooked, but it must on no 
account be allowed to boil. Heat up the Allemande sauce, and add to the above 
sauce. Pour this round the eel, garnish with a little chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, f hour. In season from June to March. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons, according to size. 

638. MATELOTE D' ANGUILLE (MATELOTE OF EELS). 



2 lbs. eels. 
\ pint claret. 
1 gill fish stock. 



bouquet garni. 
12 mushrooms. 



2| ozs. butter. 



1 oz. glaze. 
1 oz. flour, 
pepper and salt. 

Clean and skin the eels, cut them in pieces 3 inches long. Put 1^ ozs. of butter 
into a stewpan, peel and blanch the onions ; put them with the butter and the 



18 small button onions. 

chopped parsley. 

heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 139 

bouquet garni. Arrange the eels on this, cover with the hd, and cook over the 
firo for ten minutes ; then add the glaze, claret, and fish stock. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Remove the fish, herbs, and the onions. Keep hot. Melt in a small 
saucepan the remaining 1 oz. of butter, stir in the flour, thicken the gravy with. 
this, bring to the boil, and simmer for a few minutes. If too thick, add a little 
more stock. Season to taste Avith salt and pepper. Arrange the fish in a pile on 
a dish, strain the sauce over, and garnish with, the button onions and the mush- 
rooms previously cooked in butter. Cut some bread in heart-shaped pieces, fry 
a golden bro\vn, and garnish the dish with them. Sprinkle the fish with a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



HOMARD (LOBSTER) 

639. HOMARD AU GRATIN. 

1 lobster. 1 shallot. I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. ^ gill white sauce (No. 88). ! pepper. 
^ lemon. 1 oz. butter. ^ teaspoon lul chopped tarragon. I brown breadcrumbs. salt. 

Clean the lobster-shell, cut it down the back, take out the meat, cut it up into 
dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, fry the chopped shallot ; then add the lobster- 
meat, herbs, seasoning, white sauce, and lemon-juice. Ivlix all well together ; then 
fill the shells with tbei mixture, sprinkle over some bro\\Ti breadcrumbs and 
melted butter, and baiie in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish up, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 20 minutes. In season March to October. 

640. CROQUETTES DE HOMARD A LTNDIENNE (LOBSTER CROQUETTES 

WITH CURRY SAUCE). 



i lb. of cooked lobster meat. 
^ pint curry sauce (No. 23). 
1 gill thick Bechamel sauce. 



1 oz. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 
^ lb. cooked rice. 



cayenne. 

legg. 
salt. 



2 teaspoonfuls curry- 
powder. 
1 teaspoonful chutney. 

Chop the lobster finely, heat the butter in a stewpan, put in the curry-powder, 
and fry for a minute or two ; then stir on the Bechamel sauce, and cook together 
for a few minutes. Add the lobster, rice, chutney, and seasoning. Mix all well 
together. Turn the mixture on to a plate, let it get cold ; then shape into 
croquettes, balls, or cork shapes. Dip them in the egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and 
fry a golden bro\vn in very hot fat. Serve garnished with fried parsley, and send 
the curry sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable March to October. 
Sufficient for 8 croquettes. 

641. MOUSSELINES DE HOMARD A LA VENITIENNE (DARIOLE MOULDS 

OF LOBSTER WITH VENETIAN SAUCE). 



1 lobster. 



2 eggs. 1 small whiting. 1 gill cream, 

seasoning. 



4 0Z3. panada. truffle. ^ pint Venetian sauce (No. 120). 

Cut the lobster and whiting into small pieces, put them into a mortar \Wth the 
panada, pound well ; then add the eggs one at a time and seasoning. Mix and 
pound mitil smooth, then rub through a wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds. 
\Vhip the cream, and mix it with the fish forcemeat. Fill up the httle moulds with 
the mixture, put them in a steamer, and steam for fifteen minutes. When done, 
take up, turn out the shapes on a hot dish, sauce over with the Venetian sauce, and 
decorate them with chopped truffle. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable March to October. 
Sufficient for 6 small moulds. 



140 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



642. COTELETTES DE HOMARD (LOBSTER CUTLETS). 



1 lobster (cooked). 
1 oz. butter. 



J oz. flour. I cayenne, i 1 tablespoonful cream. breadcrumbs. 
\ gill water. | salt. 1 1 egg. fried parsley. 

Cut the lobster down the back, take out the meat, and chop it small. Melt the 
butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, add the water, and boil until very 
thick. Take the saucepan off the fire, mix in the lobster-meat, the cream, a pinch 
of cayenne, and salt. Stir all thoroughly together, then turn on to a plate to cool. 
Divide the mixture into equal-sized pieces, shape them into cutlet form, using 
breadcrumbs to keep them from sticking to the board. Beat up the egg on a 
plate, dip the cutlets into it, then into breadcrumbs, shape again with a dry knife. 
Put them into a frying-basket, and fry a golden brown in smoking fat. Drain on 
paper, insert a small piece of one of the feelers of the lobster in the end of each 
cutlet, arrange in a circle on a dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish the centre with 
parsley, and the cutlets are ready to serve. HoUandaise sauce or any other suitable 
sauce can be sent up with it. 

Average cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable March to 
October ; obtainable all the year. Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 




Fig. 16. — Lobstbe Chtlets. 



643. SOUFFLE DE HOMARD (LOBSTER SOUFFLE). 



1 lobster. 

2 whitings. 

3 ozs. butter. 



1 gill fish stock, 
seasoning. 

2 ozs. flour. 



4 eggs. 

1 gill cream. 

\ pint white sauce. 



Fillet the whitings, remove all skin and bones, put the wliiting meat into a 
mortar, and pound it well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and 
add the fish stock (which should be made from the bones of the whiting). Boil 
until thick, add this to the whiting, and pound weU. Chop the lobster meat very 
finely, put with the whiting, add the eggs one at a time, season with salt and 
cayenne ; rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Whip the cream, and stir it into 
the preparation. Put this into a well-buttered souffle mould, cover with a greased 
paper, and steam gently for thirty minutes. Turn out of the mould on to a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over, and decorate to taste with truffle or parsley chopped. 
Serve at once very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d, Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable March to October. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 141 



644. HOMARD A LA ST. JAMES. 



1 lobster. 

2 ozs. butter. 



^ gill white wine. 
lemon -juice. 



1 shallot, 
cayenne. 



1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Take the meat of the lobster, and cut it up in small pieces. Melt the butter, 
fry the chopped shallot without browning, add the sherry, and reduce a httlo ; 
then stir in the lobster, salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley. Cook for about five 
minutes, stirring well ; then add the sauce and the lemon-juice. Dish up in the 
shells of the lobster, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable March to October. 
Sufficient for 2 persons, if small lobster. 



645. HOMARD A LA NEWBURG. 



1 lobster. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 gill white wine. ^ pint cream 

salt. 



pepper, 
cayenne. 



3 yolks of eggs. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, cut the lobster into dice, put it into the butter, 
pour over the wine, and cook slowly for ten minutes. Season nicely with salt, 
pepper, and cayenne. Add the yolks of eggs and the cream, let it come to the boil, 
but do not let it actually boil. Dish it, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable March to October 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

646. HOMARD SAUTE A L'HONGROISE. 

1 lobster. I salt. 1 ^ gill white wine. ! ^ gill cream. 

3 ozs. butter. | paprika. ^ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). i juice | lemon. 

Spht the lobster down the back, crack the claws, take out the meat, and cut it 
into ^-inch slices. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of lobster, season 
with pepper, salt, and paprika. Fry for about five minutes. Add the wine, boil 
until it is reduced to half ; then mix in the sauce and the cream. Reduce to a good 
consistency over a brisk fire, season well with salt, paprika pepper, and the juice 
of half a lemon. Add the creamy part of the lobster, and the coral of the lobster 
pounded with 1 oz. of butter, and rubbed through a sieve. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, Ss. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable March to Sep- 
tember. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

647. TIMBALE DE HOMARD A LA REINE (TIMBALE OF LOBSTER, 

QUEEN'S STYLE). 



1 lobster. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



J gill water. white sauce (No. 88). 

2 whitings. \ 6 preserved mush- 
1 truffle. I rooms. 



2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of cream. 

6 oysters. 



Remove all the meat from the lobster, cut all the best pieces into small squares, 
and put aside until required. Chop the rest of the lobster finely, also the meat 
from the whitings. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, add the 
water, and cook over the fire until the mixture leaves the side? of the pan clean. 
Put this into a mortar with the chopped lobster and whiting, pound well, add the 
eggs and cream, season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. Rub through a 
wire sieve. Butter a timbale mould, decorate it with pieces of lobster-claw and 
some stars or other fancy shapes of truffle. Line the mould rather thickly with 
the forcemeat, taking care not to disturb the decorations. Remove the beards 
from the oysters, cut in quarters, slice the mushrooms, and put both these into a 
saucepan with the dice of lobster that were put aside. Bind this mixture with a 
little white sauce. Fill the centre of the mould with this, and cover over the top 
with a layer of the lobster and whiting forcemeat. Place a buttered paper over 
the top, stand the mould in a tin of boihng water, and steam in the oven for about 
thirty minutes. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and pour white sauce round. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. In season from February to April. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



142 TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

648. LOBSTER PATTIES. 

puff pastry. | 1 lobster. | Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | cayenne. | lemon-juice. | salt. 

Cut the pastry into six or eight rounds about 2 inches across, mark them in the 
centre with a smaller cutter, and bake in a quick oven for ten to fifteen minutes 
When baked, raise the round piece in the centre, and take out the soft inside. Cut 
the lobster into small pieces, place in a saucepan, season with salt, lemon- juice, 
and cayenne, and bind with a little Bechamel sauce. Fill the patty cases with 
this, replace the round covers, and put in the oven for a few minutes to h«at 
through. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, exclusive of making the pastry, 15 minutes. 
In season March to October. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

649 QUENELLES DE HOMARD A LA CARDINAL (LOBSTER QUENELLES 

WITH CARDINAL SAUCE). 



] lobster. 


Cardinal sauce (No. 90). 


\ gill water. 


mashed potato 


2 whiting. 


1 oz. butter. 


2 eggs. 


tru He. 


\ gill cream. 


1 oz. flour. 


1 yolk. 


parsley. 



Cut the meat from the tail of the lobster into six or eight scallops ; chop the rest 
of the lobster finely, also the meat from the two whiting. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, add the water, and boil it over the fire until it leaves 
the sides of the saucepan clean. Put this panada into a mortar with the chopped 
lobster and whiting, pound well. Add two whole eggs and the cream ; season to 
taste with salt and cayenne pepper. Rub this mixture through a wire sieve. Shape 
some quenelles with this forcemeat, placing a piece of lobster in the centre of each. 
Put the quenelles in a saute-pan, half-cover them with boiling water, cover with 
buttered paper, and poach very gently for about ten minutes. Have ready some 
mashed potato, make a border with it on a hot dish ; take up the quenelles, drain 
well, and dish them on the potato border. Heat up the Cardinal sauce, and coat 
the quenelles with it ; pour some round the base of the dish also. Decorate each 
quenelle with truffle and chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, | hour. In season March to October. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

CRABE (CRAB) 

650. CRABE A LA CARROLL. 



?1 o^'stcrs. I 2 gills cream sauce. 



12 ozs. crab-meat. I \ gill cream. 



1^ gills sherry. I 2 ozs. butter. 2 yolks. I seasoning. 

Cook the bearded oysters in the sherry, add the sauce and the crab-flakes, 
simmer for five minutes slowly. When ready to serve, thicken with the yolks and 
oream, and add the butter. Do not boil again. Serve on squares of toast, one for 
each person, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1 lb. crab -meat. 
4 ozs. breadcrumbs. 



651. SUPREME DE CRABE. 

juice of I lemon. 1 glass white wine. 

seasoning. 



1 gill supreme sauce (Ko. 74). 

Cut up the crab-meat in small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the rest of 
the ingredients, simmer for fifteen minutes gently, stirring occasionally. Dish it 
up in the shell of the crab, and garnish with fried parsley and thin slices of 
lemon. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable all the year ; 
best from September to April. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 143 

652. BUTTERED CRAB. 

1 medium -sized crab. ! ^ oz. flour. 1 teaspoonful made mustard. I cayenne pepper, 
li ozs. butter. nutmeg. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. I breadcrumbs. 

Pick out the flesh of the crab, and mince it rather finely. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes over the fire. Add the 
mustard, vinegar, cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg : lastly, mix in the chopped 
crab-meat. Heat thoroughly, place it in the crab-shell, sprinkle with freshly-made 
breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter. Put in a hot oven to bro^vn the 
surface. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. to 3k. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. In season from September 
to April. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 




ifiQ. 17. — Buttered Crab. 

653. CURRIED CRAB. 

1 large crab. 1 tablespoonful curry-powder. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 lemon. I boiled rico. 



1 teaspoonful desiccated cocoanut. salt. i i gill cream. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the curry-powder, and fry over the fire for 
a few minutes. Put in the cocoanut and cream, and let it simmer gently for ten 
to fifteen minutes. Take the meat from the crab, cut it into neat pieces, and add 
to the curry. Heat thoroughly, and finish with a good squeeze of lemon-juice. 
Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with plain boiled rice. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. In season from 
September to April. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

PfiTONCLES (SCALLOPS) 

654. PETONCLES A L'INDIENNE. 

12 scallops. 1 pint white fish sauce (No. 88). I 1 onion. 

1 oz. butter. 1 dessertspoonful curry-powder. I boiled rice. 

Chop the onion, melt the butter, fry the onion without browning, stir in the 

curry-powder, and cook for a few minutes ; then add the sauce, stir until it boils. 

Let it simmer for fifteen minutes, season to taste. Wash the scallops well, put 

them into a saucepan, cover with fish stock or milk and water, and cook for thirty 

PT. II. 10 



144 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

minutes ; then add them to the prepared sauce, and cook for another five or ten 
minutes. Serve with boiled rice separately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable October to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

655. PETONCLES FRITS (FRIED SCALLOPS). 

12 scallops. I flour. | pepper. | salt. | lemon. | parsley. | frjnng-fat. 

Wash the scallops, season some flour with salt and pepper, dry the fish, and roll 
in the seasoned flour. Drop them into the fat, from wliich a blue smoke should 
be rising ; fry a golden brown colour. Take up with a fish-slice, put them on paper 
to drain, dish on a dish-paper or folded napldn, garnish with slices of lemon and 
sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost of scallops per dozen, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable 
October to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

656. PETONCLES AU GRATIN (SCALLOPED SCALLOPS). 

12 scallops. I 2 ozs. butter. | breadcrumbs. | grated Parmesan cheese. | seasoning. 

Wash the scallops, dry them, and cut each one in three pieces. Melt the butter 
in a frying-pan ; when hot, put in the scallops, and fry them brown. Wash the 
deep shells of the scallops, fill with the scallops, sprinkle breadcrumbs thickly over 
them, then a layer of cheese. Put a few bits of butter on the top of each, put into 
a sharp oven to brown. Dish the shells on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost, is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable October to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

HUlTRES (OYSTERS) 

657. SOUFFLE AUX HUITRES (OYSTER SOUFFLE). 



12 oysters. j 2 ozs. flour. 

\ lb. whiting-meat. | 3 eggs. 

2 ozs. butter. J gill milk. 



^ giU oyster-liquor. 
1 gill cream, 
seasoning. 



Pound the whiting-meat in a mortar imtil smooth, melt the butter in a saucepan, 
stir in the flour, mix in the milk and oyster-liquor. Boil until very thick. Add this 
sauce to the whiting, pound again until thoroughly mixed, season to taste, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Beard the oysters, cut them into dice, and add to the whiting 
mixture. Work in the eggs one at a time, the whipped cream, and seasoning. 
Well butter a charlotte mould, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, 
and steam gently for half an hour. Turn out, and serve with a white sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufiicient for 5 persons. 

658. BEIGNETS D'HUITRES (OYSTER FRITTERS). 

12 oysters. I 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful oil. frying -fat. 

2 ozs. flour. I salt. 1 tablespoonful tepid water. parsley (fried). 

Beard the oysters, prepare the frying-batter. Sieve the flour, put it into a 
basin with a pinch of salt, stir in the egg-yolk, the oil, and the tepid water ; mix to 
a smooth paste. Beat up well, and put it aside for twenty minutes. When ready 
to fry the fritters, beat up the white of egg very stiffly, and add it to the batter. 
Have the frying-fat very hot, dip the oysters into the batter, see that each one is 
well covered, and drop them into the boiling fat. Fry a golden brown, drain, and 
dish them on a dish-paper on a hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufficient for 12 frittertt. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 145 

659. HUITRES A LA FLORENTINE. 
12 oysters. I 1 lb. prepared spinach. | Momay sauce (No. 110). | Beasoning. 

Beard the oysters, put them with their hquor into a small saucepan, and just 
bring to the boil. Put a layer of the prepared spinach in the hollow half of each 
shell, drain the oysters from the liquor, and place one in each prepared shell on 
the spinach. Cover mth Mornay sauce, sprinkle Avith cheese and melted butter, 
and put them in a sharp oven to glaze. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable September U 
April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

660. TIMBALE AUX HUITRES A LA PARMENTIER (MOULD WITH 

OYSTERS AND POTATOES). 

For Potato Mixture. 
1 lb. cooked potatoes. | seasoning. | 1 oz. butter. | 2 yolks of eggs. | ^ gill cream. 

For Oyster Mixture. 



18 oysters. l 1 oz. flour. 



k gill white wine. h gill cream. 

i small onion. 



season, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 oz. butter. ' 1 gill oyster-liquor. i gill milk. 

Cook the potatoes, and when dry and cool pass them through a wire sieve. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the potato, add the yolks of eggs and the 
cream, season to taste with pepper and salt. Turn the mixture on to a plate to 
cool. Beard the oysters, put them with their hquor into a small stewpan, bring to 
tlie boil, but do not lot them actually boil. Drain them, and save 1 gill of the 
hquor. Put the butter into a stewpan when melted, stir in the flour, add the oyster- 
liquor and the milk, bring to the boil, stirring meanwhile ; simmer for a few minutes. 
Slice the onion, put it with the wine into a saucepan, and reduce to half the quantity. 
Add the sauce just made to this, cook for five minutes longer ; then strain, add the 
cream, oysters, and seasoning. Butter a timbale-mould (I| pint size), sprinkle it 
all over with breadcrumbs, then line it with the potato. This must be done care- 
fully, so that there may be no cracks, or the sauce will run out and spoil the appear- 
ance. Now fill the centre with the oyster mixture ; cover over the top with the 
potato preparation, making it level with the top of the tin. Put the mould into a 
moderate oven, and bake for twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked, take out 
of the oven, let it stand for five minutes ; then turn out on to a hot dish, and garnish 
the base Avith fried parsley. The dish is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

661. BOUCHEES AUX HUITRES (OYSTER PATTIES). 

12 oysters. i i gill cream, j oyster-liquor and stock to I J oz. flour. 

^ lb. puff paste. I 1 oz. butter. I make 1 gill. I seasoning. 

Beard the oysters, and blanch them in their o\vn liquor. Strain, keep the 
liquor, and cut each oyster in half. Melt the butter in a smaU stewpan, stir in the 
flour, add the gill of hquor, and stir until it boils. Simmer for a few minutes ; then 
add the cream, seasoning, and the oysters. Roll out the puff pastry, cut out some 
rounds with a pastry-cutter about 3 inches across, make an incision in the centre 
of each round with a smaller cutter, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a 
hot oven until cooked. When baked, take out the soft inside, keep the fids, and 
fill the cases with the oyster mixture. Put on the lids, and return to the oven to 
get hot again. Dish thorn on a napkin or dish-paper, and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 6 patties. 

10—2 



146 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

662. HUITRES A LA RHINE. 

12 oysters. rich white sauce (No. 88). seasoning, 

liquor of the oysters. breadcrumbs. butter. 

Beard the oysters, heat the sauce, and strain the oyster-Hquor into it. Put the 
oysters into this, and keep them hot without boihng for three or four minutes ; add 
seasoning. Butter the shells hghtly, and fill them with the oysters. Sprinkle 
thickly with breadcrumbs, pour some butter over, and put them into a hot oven 
to bro\vn or under a salamander. Dish up the shells on a flat dish, and serve 
^^ery hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

663. HUITRES AU BECHAMEL (OYSTERS WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE). 
12 oysters. | \ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | pepper. | salt. | grated Parmesan cheese. 

Beard the oysters, clean the shells. Put the oysters into a small stewpan, add 
the liquor to them, and bring to the boil. Take them off the fire, and strain. Put 
in each shell a layer of Bechamel sauce, upon that lay an oyster. Season with 
pepper and salt, cover them Avith sauce, sprinkle with cheese and melted butter, 
and put in a quick oven or mider a salamander to glaze. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

664. FRICASSEE D'HUITRES (STEWED OYSTERS). 

2 dozen oysters. 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). [ \ gill white wine. seasoning. 

1| ozs. butter. ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, i juice of \ lemon. 

Remove the beards of the oysters, put into a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, the 
wine, and a httle oyster-liquor. Season with salt and pepper, and cook over the 
fire for two minutes. Mix in the sauce, stir until it boils. Add the juice of the 
lemon, the remaining | oz. of butter, and the parsley. Dish up on a hot dish, and 
garnish round with croutes of fried bread. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable September to 
ApriL Sufficient for 6 persons. 



665. COTELETTES AUX HUItRES. 



1 dozen oysters. 

2 ozs. butter. 
IJ ozs. flour. 



^ gill oyster-liquor. 2 egg-yolks, 
lemon -juice. \ giU sherry. 

\ giU cream. 1 whole egg. 

For Sauce. 

§ bay -leaf. 2 gills fish | 1 gill cream. 

2 ozs. butter. 



breadcrumbs. 

salt. 

cayenne. 



cayenne. I 1 shallot. 
Bait. 1 oz. flour. 



stock. I lemon-juice. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the oyster-liquor, sherry, 
cream, a squeeze of lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne. Stir until it boils. Let it cool 
a minute, then add the two yolks of eggs ; stir well until it thickens. Beard the 
oysters, and cut them into quarters ; if large, into six pieces. Stir these into the 
sauoe. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it cool. Divide this mixture into 
equal parts, shape them into cutlets, dip in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and 
fry a golden brown in very hot fat. Dish up in a circle, and garnish the centre with 
fried parsley. Serve with the sauce separately. Make the sauce as follows : Melt 
2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, bring to the boil ; 
then add the beards of the oysters, bay-leaf, and shallot. Cook for fifteen minutes, 
then add the cream. Season to taste with salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Pass 
through a strainer or fine sieve, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 147 
666. CROQUETTES AUX HUITRES (CROQUETTES OF OYSTERS). 



12 oysters. 
1 oz. butter. 
J oz. flour. 



h gill milk. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

1 whole egg. 



J gill oyster-liquor, 
squeeze of lemon- 
juice. 



breadcrumbs. 

seasoning, 
fried parsley. 



Put the oysters into a saucepan with their hquor, bring just to boihng-point, 
but do not let them actually boil ; then drain them, and save the hquor. Take of! 
the beards, and cut the oysters in dice. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the 
flour, add the milk and oyster-liquor, and boil until very thick ; then cool a minute, 
add the yolks of the eggs, stir over the fire until the eggs are cooked. Mix in the 
oysters and lemon-joice, make quite hot, season to taste, and turn the mixture on 
to a plate to cool. When the oyster preparation is cold and set, divide it into 
equal portions, form each piece into the shape of balls or corks, beat the egg on a 
plate, dip the croquettes in it, and then roll in breadcrumbs. Fry them in very 
hot fat a golden brown. Drain on paper, pile them on a napkin on a hot dish, and 
garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



667. CROMESQUIS AUX HUITRES (OYSTER CROMESKIES). 



12 oysters. 
1 oz. butter. 



8 thin slices of bacon. 
1 tablespoonful cream. 



^ gill oyster- liquor. 
2 yolks of eggs. 



^ oz. flour. 
I lemon. 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 0Z8. flour, 
legg. 



For Frying Batter. 

1 tablespoonful salad 
oil. 



1 tablespoonful milk, 
seasoning. 



Put the oysters into a small stewpan with their liquor, and bring them to the 
boil. Drain and keep the liquor, beard the oysters, and cut into smail dice. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the oyster-liquor, and boil until thick. 
Mix in the cream, the juice of the lemon, and seasoning. Add the yolks of eggs 
and bind. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it get cold. In the meanwhile, 
prepare the batter in the following way : Sieve the flour into a basin, work in the 
yolk of the egg, the salad oil, and the milk. Beat well until the batter is smooth. 
Let it stand until wanted, then whisk the wliite of egg very stiffly, and stir it into 
the batter just before using. Divide the oyster mixture into eight equal parts, 
shape them into rolls like corks, wrap each on a piece of very thin bacon, dip them 
into the batter, and fry a golden brown in hot fat. Drain, dish them on a napkin 
or dish-paper, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufiicient for 4 persons. 



SIMPLE WAYS OF COOKING AND SERVING FISH 

668. FRIED HERRINGS. 
4 herrings (fresh). | oatmeal. | milk. | frying-fat. 

Wash and clean the herrings, cut on tlie heads, and make two or three cuts with 
% sharp knife on the sides of each herring. Dip them into milk, and then into 
oatmeal. Heat some fat or lard, put in the fish when the fat is very hot, and fry 
a golden brown. They take about ten minutes to cook. Drain on paper, dish up, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable May to October 
SuflBcient for 4 persons. 



148 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

669. BOILED HERRINGS— MUSTARD SAUCE. 

4 fresh herrings. | h pint mustard sauce (No. 111). 

Wash, scale, and clean the herrings. Put them mto salted boiling water, and 

simmer very gently for about ten minutes. Take up as soon as cooked, drain the 

water from them, arrange on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and send the 

sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable May to October. 
Sufficient for 2 to 4 persons. 

670. FILLETS OF SALMON WITH POTATOES. 
1 lb. salmon. : 3 ozs. butter. 



^mon -juice. - pepper. 



^ pint white fish sauce salt. anchovy essence. 

(No. 88). j cayenne. 3 or 4 raw potatoes. 



Cut the salmon into small, neat pieces J inch tliick ; put them into a stewpan 
with the butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, cover with a hd, and cook very 
gently until the fish is done. Cut the potatoes in the shape of small corks, boil 
until half-cooked, drain, and put into a stewpan \vith butter, pepper, and salt 
Let them cook slowly, shaking them occasionally. Do not let them brown. Place 
the potatoes in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the salmon round. Warm the white 
sauce, mix in sufficient anchovy essence to make it pink, add a squeeze of lemon- 
juice and a little cayenne. Stir into it the remains of the butter in which the 
salmon was cooked, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable February to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 fresh haddock. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 gill milk. I 1 gill water. 

2 ozs. oatmeal. ' 1 onion. 



671. BAKED HADDOCK. 

salt. 
pepper. 

Clean the hsh, and place it in a buttered deep baking-tin. Mince the onion 
finely, mix together the oatmeal, onion, water, and milk. Put tliis mixture over 
the fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, break the butter into small pieces, and put 
it on the fish. Cover with another tin to keep the fish moist, put it into the oven» 
and cook for half an hour. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

672. SOUSED MACKEREL. 

3 medium-sized mackerel. 1 bay-leaf. I \ pint cold water. 

^ pint vinegar. 10 peppercorns. 1 salt. 

Boil the mackerel, taking care not to break them. After they are cooked, split 
them carefully down the back, and remove the bones. Put the vinegar and water 
into a saucepan with the bay-leaf, peppercorns, and salt ; simmer for ten minutes. 
Let this liquor get cold, then pour it over the fish. Let the mackerel steep in the 
liquor some hours before serving. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes to cook fish ; 10 minutes to 
boil vinegar. Seasonable from April to July. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

673. BLOATER PIE. 
3 small bloaters. | 1 oz. butter. | mashed potato. | cayenne. | chopped parsley. 

Fry the bloaters, skin and bone them, cut the fish into pieces, and put into a 
pie-dish with a little chopped parsley, a pinch of cayenne, and the butter broken 
into pieces. Cover with mashed potato, mark it with a fork, put a few bits of 
butter here and there, and bake in a hot oven until the potato is a nice brown. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 149 



1 fresh haddock. 
\ lemon. 
1 egg. 



674. STUFFED BAKED HADDOCK. 

1 tablespoonful bread- ; 2 tablespoonfuls chopped suet. 

crumbs. I 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

anchovy sauce (No. 85). | \ teaspoonful mixed herbs. 



dripping. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Mix the suet, breadcrumbs, parsley, and herbs together in a basin, and season 
with pepper and salt. Cut the rind of the lemon very thinly, then chop it, and add 
to the stuffing. Bind tliis mixture with beaten egg, taking care not to get it too 
wet. Stuff the stomach of the haddock -with this ; then take a trussing-needle 
threaded with string, and truss the fish into the shape of the letter S. This is done 
by passing the needle through the eyes, then through the middle of the back, and 
finally through the tail. Draw up tightly, and fasten. Egg and breadcrumb the 
fish, and then place in a Yorksliire tin vdt\\ some dripping over, and bake in the 
oven for twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. The haddock must be basted 
frequently to keep it moist. Take up, remove the string, place the fish on a hot 
dish, and pour anchovy sauce round. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

675. CURRIED FISH. 

\ lb. cooked fish. 1 apple. | water or fish stock. 1 tablespoonful curry- j boiled rice. 
2 large onions. 1 lemon. 1 2 ozs. dripping. powder. i salt. 

Peel and chop the onions finely, melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the 
onion, and fry a dark broA\Ti. Strain off the onions, return the dripping to the 
saucepan, add the curry-powder, and fry over the fire for a few minutes. Peel and 
chop the apple, add to the curry-powder, also the fried onions, moisten with enough 
water or fish stock to make it a nice consistency (about | pint). Season with salt, 
and let it simmer for thirty minutes. Cut the fish into nice-sized pieces, and put 
into the curry to warm through. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon- 
juice. Dish up, and garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Serve with 
boiled rice. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. In season always. S'ufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

676. WATER SOUCHY. 
4 small flounders or dabs. | parsley. | grated horseradish. | cayenne. 

Clean the fish, and, if large, cut into pieces. Boil the fish in just enough water 
or fish stock to cover, ^vith some sprigs of parsley, grated horseradish, and cayenne. 
When the fish is cooked, place it in a vegetable-dish, strain the hquor over, and 
sprinkle the surface ^\^th chopped parsley. Serve with thin slices of browTi bread 
and butter separately. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 10 to 15 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

677. LOBSTER SCALLOP. 

1 lobster. , 2 ozs. butter. 1 tablespoonful chopped lemon-juice. 

1 shallot. 1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon. | parsley. breadcrumbs. 

Boil the lobster, and, when cold, cut in two down the centre of the back, so as 
to make two shells. Remove the flesh, and cut into dice. Melt some butter in a 
saucepan, take off the scum and then butter the insides of the shells. Melt 1 oz. 
of butter, fry the chopped shallot in it until a pale golden colour. Add the parsley, 
tarragon, lobster, and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; also salt and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Fill the shells with layers of this mixture, breadcrumbs, and oiled butter ; 
sprinkle a few brown breadcrumbs over, and heat in the oven. Serve hot, with 
fried parsley as a garnish. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season from March to 
October. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



150 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



678. STUFFED HERRINGS. 



2 or 3 fresh herrings. 
2 ozs. breadcrumbs, 
parsley sauce (No. 61). 



1 teaspoonful mixed herbs. 
1 tablespoonful chopped suet. 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 



salt, 
breadcrumbs. 

legg. 

Mix the breadcrumbs, suet, parsley, and herbs together ; season with salt, and 
add enough beaten egg to bind the mixture. Fillet the herrings, spread a layer of 
the stuffing over each, and fold in halves, keeping the skin side of the fish inside. 
Lay them on a buttered tin, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and put dripping on each. 
Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, basting them frequently. Take thera 
up, and dish in a row down the centre of the dish. Pour parsley sauce round, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. In season from May to October. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^p^S^ ^ jB^^^^^^^^^^I 


PH^^^HI 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^j^^jy^ m^ \*^: TlirJ'liJk^JjB^ i 


f::^-'-^^ \I^^^K^^^^^^^m 




y^^T^B 







Fia. 18. — Curried Shruips in Cases. 



679. CURRIED SHRIMPS IN CASES. 



3 ozs. rice. 
1 pint stock. 



1 onion. 

1^ ozs. butter. 



1 gill picked shrimps. I 1 apple. 

1 dessertspoonful curry-powder. | ^ lemon. 

Boil the rice in 1 pint of stock imtil tender and the moisture is absorbed. Butter 
some small dariole-moulds, and hne with the boiled rice, pressing it well into the 
corners. Peel and chop the onion, melt the butter in a saucepan, fry the onion a 
dark brown in it, stir in the curry-powder, and cook over the fire for a few minutes. 
Peel and chop the apple, add to the curry with enough stock or water to cook it in. 
Let this simmer for thirty minutes, then add the shrimps and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice. Fill up the rice cases with this curry, and place in the oven to warm through. 
Dish up, and garnish each on the top with a few picked shrimps and a httle chopped 
parsley. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

680. CASSEROLE OF PLAICE. 



1 large plaice. 
3 large onions. 



1 tablespoonful parsley. 

2 ozs. butter. 



3 large tomatoes. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Peel the onions, and cut into shces. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the 
onions and the chopped parsley. Stir these over the fire until a hght brown. Put 
a layer of thi« ^t the bottom of a small casserole-dish. Fillet the plaice and cut 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 151 

each into nice-sized pieces. Lay these on the mixture in the casserole, and cover 
with the rest of the onion mixture. Cut the tomatoes into quarters, and put with 
the fish. Dilute wdth 1 gill of water and the vinegar, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Place the cover on the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty 
minutes. Serve in the casserole dish. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

681. FISH PILAU. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 6 ozs. rice. | 1 lb. fish. | li pints stock. [ 1 onion. [ salt. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, fry the chopped onion in it a pale colour, add 
the rice, and brown this a little as well. Dilute with the stock, season with salt, 
and simmer for ten minutes. Cut any Idnd of fish into neat pieces, lay them on 
the top of the rice, and simmer the whole until the fish is cooked and the stock 
absorbed. Arrange the fish and rice on a hot dish, garnish with a little chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

DAINTY WAYS OF DOING UP COLD FISH 



^ lb. cold fish. 



^ lb. cooked potato. 



682. FISH CAKES. 

breadcrumbs, 
fried parsley. 



popper, 
salt. 



h oz. butter. 

iegg. 

Chop up the cooked fish, pass the potato through a wire sieve, melt the butter 
in a saucepan. As soon as it is melted, stir in the fish, potato, and the yolk of the 
egg. Season with pepper and salt ; stir all together over the fire mitil well mixed. 
Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it get cold. Beat the white of the egg a little 
on a plate. Divide the fish preparation into even-sized pieces, shape them into 
balls ; then flatten with a knife into cakes, dip in the white of egg, and then into 
breadcrumbs. Take a clean knife, pat on the crumbs, and shape again. Fry the 
cakes in very hot fat a golden brown. Dish up, and serve with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 4d., without fish. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 8 cakes. 



^ lb. of cooked fish. 
1 teaspoonful parsley, 
pepper. 



egg- 
breadcrumbs, 
salt. 



683. CROQUETTES DE POISSON (CROQUETTES OF FISH). 

^ gill well-reduced Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 
^ oz. butter. 

Remove all skin and bono from the fish, chop the meat finely. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan ; when melted, put in the fish, add the sauce, pepper, salt, and the 
anchovy essence. Mix all well together, then turn the preparation on to a plate, 
and let it get cold. Divide the mixture into even-sized pieces, make up into the 
shape of corks, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. 
Dish up on a dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 8 croquets. 



684. POUDING DE POISSON (FISH PUDDING). 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 egg. 

white sauce (Xo. 88). pepper, 

i gill milk. salt. 

Take away all skin and bones from the fish, chop it small, also the suet. Put 
both of these ingredients into a mortar, and pound well ; then add the breadcrumbs, 
egg, milk, seasoning, and parsley. Pound again until the mixture is smooth. Put 



J lb. cooked white fish. 

1 oz. beef suet. 

1 oz. breadcrumbs. 



152 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



this preparation into a well-greased pudding-mould or basin, steam or boil for one 
hour. Unmould, and pour the sauce over. Sprinkle the top with chopped parsley 
or chopped lobster-coral. 

Time required, 1^ hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



685. CROOTES DE POISSON (CROOTES OF FISH). 



stale bread. 
J lb. cold fish. 



\ oz. butter. 
\ oz. flour. 



^ gill fish stock, 
breadcrumbs. 



chopped parsley, 
egg- 



milk, 
salt. 



Chop the fish finely, freeing it from skin and bone. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and cook over the fire until it leaves the sides 
of the pan clean. Add the chopped fish, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Stir 
over the fire until thoroughly hot. Cut one or two slices of stale bread 1| inches 
thick, stamp out some rounds about 2 inches across, take out a part of the centre 
with a cutter two sizes smaller than the first ; cut also some rounds | inch thick 
with the smaller cutter. Dip these, and also the cases, in a httle milk to moisten 
them. Take them out, drain, and then egg and breadcrumb them. Fry in very 
hot fat, drain on paper, and fill the hollow of each with the fish mixture, piling it 
rather high. Place one of the small, round lids on the top of each croute, Disli on 
a paper or napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 




FiQ. 19. — CeoOtes db Poisson. 



686. FISH AND MACARONI. 



2 ozB. macaroni. 
1 small onion. 



1 lb. of any kind of cold 
cooked fish. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1 oz. butter. 3 or 4 tomatoes, 
breadcrumbs. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Boil the macaroni until soft, then cut it in short lengths about 1 inch. Butter 
a pie-dish, and cover it all over with the macaroni ; then add a layer of the cooked 
fish, season with pepper and salt. Continue the alternate layers till the dish is 
full. Chop the onion. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and, when hot, fry the 
chopped onion a golden brown. Stir in the flour, then add the tomatoes, cut in 
half. Let all simmer together for ten minutes, and rub through a hair sieve or 
pass it through a fine strainer. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and pour 
over the fish. Cover the top of the dish with a layer of breadcrumbs, and bake 
about half an hour. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of fish. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 153 



687. FISH PIE. 



1 lb. cooked fish. 

2 onions. 

G peppercorns. 



f oz. butter. 

1 oz. flour. 

^ oz. loan bacon. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
^ pint milk or hsh 
stock. 



mashed potatoes. 

salt. 

yolk of egg. 



Flake the fish in nice pieces, put the bones of the fish with sufficient water to 
cover in a stewpan, add to it one onion, peppercorns, and a sprig of parsley and 
thyme. Simmer for twenty minutes, then strain. Fry the remaining onion, 
chopped, and the bacon cut up small, in the butter. Stir in the flour, add the fish 
stock, bring to the boil, stirring all the time. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Put 
a layer of the fish in a pie-dish, cover with sauce, season with salt and pepper 
chopped parsley, and a few chopped capers. Cover the fish with shces of liard- 
boiled eggs, and repeat the layers of fish, egg, and seasoning until the dish is filled, 
fish being the last layer. Cover with a crust of mashed potatoes, brush over with 
beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

Average cost, 4d., exclusive of fish. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 
persons. 

688. RECHAUFFE OF SALT COD. 



1 lb. salt cod. 
1 onion. 



parsley. 1^ ozs. flour 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 teaspoonfuls anchovy essence. 



^ lemon. 



1 pint fish stock. 

Take the fish off the bones in nice fiakes, put the bones in a stewpan with an 
onion and a sprig of parsley, cover with water, and simmer for twenty minutes. 
Strain, and cool. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, moisten with 
the stock, stirring all the time. Let it boil for ten minutes, then add the fish, and 
if any egg sauce has been left from the previous day, it may be added. Season 
with pepper, the lemon- juice, and the anchovy essence. Cover the saucepan with 
a tight-fitting lid, and place it on the stove to get quite hot without boiling. Servo 
on a flat dish with a border of mashed potato round. Put the dressed fish in the 
centre, cover the surface of the fish with bro\vn breadcrumbs, and place the dish 
in the oven for ten minutes before sending to table. 

Average cost, 4d., exclusive of fish. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 
G persons. 

689. KEDGEREE. 

^ lb. cooked dried haddock. | 2 eggs. | 2 ozs. rice. | 2 ozs. batter. | seasoning. 1 chopped parsley. 

Wash and boil the rice, dry it well. Boil the eggs hard ; when boiled, put them 
into cold water. Take off the shells, cut the whites into small square pieces, rub 
the yolks through a wire sieve. Break the fish in pieces, and carefully remove all 
bones and skin. Put the butter in a saucepan ; when melted, add the rice, fish, 
and whites of eggs, season to taste. ]Mix all well together, and serve on a hot dish 
in a pyramid shape. Sprinkle the yolks of the eggs over, and a little chopped parsley. 
Serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

690. SALMON CUTLETS. 

J lb. cooked salmon. 1 oz. butter. I 1 yolk of egg. salt. 

I lb. boiled potatoes. 1 egg. I breadcrumbs. cayenne. 

Take away all sldn and bones from the salmon, then chop it finely. Rub the 
potatoes through a sieve, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the fish and potato. 
Stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed, season with salt and cayenne pepper, 
I'ind with the yolk of an egg. Turn this mixture on to a plate to cool. Shape into 
cutlet shapes, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in hot fat. Dish up on a paper 
or napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. In season February to 
August. Sufficient for 6 or 7 cutlets. 



154 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



691. FISH SALAD. 



2 lb. cold fish. 

2 lettuces. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



1 beetroot. 

vinegar. 

milk. 



sugar. 
oil 



seasoning. 

Shred the lettuces ; break the fish up into flakes, and mix with the lettuce. 
Sieve the j^olks of eggs into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonfiil of sugar, 1 of milk or cream, 
1 of oil, and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Season with pepper and salt. Add this 
to the salad, and mix thoroughly. Garnish to taste with beetroot and whites of 

eggs. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 6 
persons. 




Fig. 20.— Fisii SiL.iD. 

692. COD WITH ARTICHOKES. 

1 lb. cooked cod. I egg sauce (No. 11-i). | 2 hard-boiled eggs. | boiled Jerusalem artichokes. 

Free the fish from skin and bone, break up into flakes, place in a saucepan, and 
add enough egg sauce to make a nice consistency. Season to taste with pepper 
and salt. Make this mixture thoroughly hot, and then dish in a pile on a hot dish. 
Pour some more egg sauce round the base, and garnish with the hard-boiled eggs, 
cut in quarters, and the cooked artichokes. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on 
the top, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1 lb. cold turbot. 
brown breadcrumbs. 



693. SCALLOPS OF TURBOT. 

I pint white sauce (No. 88). 2 ozs. butter. | salt. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. cayenne. I | gill crcara. 

Flake the fish into small pieces, heat the white sauce in a saucepan, put in the 
fish, season with cayenne and salt, add the cream and parsley. Butter eight or nine 
scallop-shells, sprinkle with the brown crumbs, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle 
over the top with the crumbs. Put the butter, broken up into small pieces, on the 
top, and place the shells in a moderate oven to get hot through. Serve in the sheila 
on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 

Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 to 10 shells. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 155 



694. CROUSTADES OF COD. 



cooked cod. 

tomato sauce (No. 77). 



mushrooms, 
breadcrumbs. 



butter, 
pastry. 



Roll out the pastry, cut into rounds, and line eight pattypans \\ath it. Bake 
in a moderate oven, remove from the tins, and put aside till required. Free the 
fish from skin and bone, and break it into flakes. Peel the mushrooms, cook in 
the oven with a little butter. Take them up, chop coarsely, and place in a saucepan 
Mith the flakes of fish. Add enough tomato sauce to bind the mixture, season with 
pepper and salt. Fill the pastry cases with this, sprinkle breadcrumbs over and a 
few drops of melted butter, put in the oven to bro\\Ti. Dish up on a dish-paper, 
and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. SufB- 
cicnt for 6 or 7 persons. 




Fig. 21. — Croustades of Cod. 



695. FISH WITH VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

1 lb. cold fish. beetroot. I parsley. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. cold potatoes. | vinaigrette sauce (No. 146). 

Free the fish from skin and bone, break it into neat flakes, put into a basin, and 
mix into it the hard-boiled eggs, chopped, and one chopped boiled potato. Season 
^\^th pepper and salt, moisten with a very little vinaigrette sauce. Place this on a 
dish in a pile, garnish AWth shces of beetroot, boiled potato, and a few sprigs of 
parsley. Serve with, vinaigrette sauce separately. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 



696. TIMBALES OF FISH AND POTATOES. 



1 lb. cooked potatoes. 
1 oz. butter. 



white sauce (No. 88). 
cold fish. 



legg. 
parsley. 



Rub the potatoes through a sieve ; melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the 
potato, pepper, salt, and enough egg to bind the mixture. Well grease some small 
dariole-mouids, and line them with the potato mixture. Chop the fish coarsely, 
put into a saucepan with a httle white sauce, and chopped parsley. Fill the centre 
of the moulds with this, cover with some more of the potato mixture, brush the 



156 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



top of each over with beaten egg, and put in a hot oven to brown 
hot dish, and send to table with white sauce separately. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season alwaj^s 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



Turn out on a 



SuflEicient 



697. FISH WITH POTATOES. 



1 lb. cold boiled 
fish. 



boiled potatoes. 
2 ozs. butter. 



pepper and salt. 
breadcrumbs. 



parsley. 

white sauce (No. 88). 



Rub the potatoes through a sieve ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, add the 
potato, pepper, and salt, and, if hked, a httle cream. Heat this thoroughly over 
the fire, then make a border with it on a hot fire-proof dish. Free the fish from 
skin and bone, break it into flakes. Put these in a saucepan, season with pepper 
and salt, and moisten with a little white sauce. Place this in the centre of the 
potato border, sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, and the rest of the butter 
melted and poured over. Put the dish in a hot oven, and bake until the fish 
and potatoes are brown. Garnish with a little chopped parsley, and serve 

very hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 

for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 22. — Fish with Potatoes. 



698. CROQUETTES OF HADDOCK. 



egg- 
breadcrumbs. 



I dried haddock. I melted butter sauce (No. 43). 
short pastry. | chopped parsley. 

Cook the haddock in the usual way, free it from skin and bone, and chop the 
meat finely. Put it into a saucepan with the chopped parsley, and add enough 
melted batter sauce to bind. Season with salt and pepper. Roll the pastry out 
rather thinly, cut into rounds 3 inches across, put a Httle of the fish mixture in tho| 
centre of each, wet round the edges, and fold in halves. Egg and breadcrumb 
them, and fry in boiling fat. Take up, drain well, and dish in a pile on a dish- 
paper. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. In season always. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 



THE COOKING OF FISH, AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 157 

699. FLAN DE CABILLAUD (COD IN PASTRY CASE). 
J lb. short pastry. | 1^ lbs. cooked cod. | mushrooms. | Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | parsley. 

Roll out the pastry, and line a flan-ring with it. Ornament the edges, fill the 
centre with raw rice, and bake in a hot oven. Take out when done, remove the 
flan-ring, and take away the rice. Break some of the cod into flakes, mix with it 
the cooked mushrooms, and enough Bechamel sauce to bind. Place this at the 
bottom of the pastry-case. Cut the rest of the cod into neat pieces, rather largo, 
and arrange on the top of the first mixture. Coat these pieces of cod with a httle 
Bechamel sauce. Garnish with chopped parsley on each piece of cod, and then 
place in the oven to get thoroughly hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fio. 23. — Flan de Cabillaud. 



CHAPTER VI 

FISH ENTREES (COLD) 

700. DARNE DE SAUMON A LA MONTPELLIER (SLICE OF SALMON WITH 

MONTPELLIER BUTTER). 



1 carrot. 
1 onion, 
bouquet garni. 



3 hard-boiled eggs. salt. 



1 gill cooked peas. 
12 peppercorns. 



2J lbs. middle-cut of salmon. 1 truffle. 

Montpellier butter (No. 181). 1 cucumber, 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 

Cut the carrot and onion into slices, wipe the salmon, put it into a fish-kettle, 
with the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns. Cover with nearly boiling water ; 
bring quickly to the boil, and simmer gently until the fish is cooked. Let the 
salmon get cold in the water, then take it up, drain, and put on a dish or flat board. 
Take ofi the skin carefully, cover all over with the Montpellier butter, let it set, 
then coat with half -set aspic jelly. Do this more than once, so that there is a 
transparent coat over it. Decorate the darne with slices of truffle cut out with an 
ornamental cutter, slices of cucumber with grooved edges. A little lobster-coral 
here and there is an improvement. Dish the salmon on a large oval dish, surround 
it \v1th the whites of eggs cut in halves and filled with cooked green peas, thin slices 
of grooved cucumber, and chopped aspic jelly. Send up to table with it a sauce- 
tureen of tartare sauce (No. 143). 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

701. FLEURETTES DE HOMARD A LA MAYONNAISE (DARIOLES OF 

LOBSTER WITH MAYONNAISE). 

1 lobster. I ^ pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). I cayenne. salt. 

1 truffle. I 1 pint aspic jelly (No. 251). ' lobster spawn. parsley or salad. 

Line six dariole-moulds with liquid aspic jelly ; when set, decorate the bottom 
of each with strips of truffle to form a star. Pound the lobster spawn, rub it through 
a hair sieve. Add this to a little aspic jelly, put it over the fire, and boil until the 
spawn has coloured the aspic red. Add sufficient of this, when cool, to colour the 
mayonnaise a pretty shade. Dilute the sauce also with another | gill of aspic, line 
the moulds all over with this, let it set on ice. Split the lobster down the back, 
take out the meat from the shell, cut it up in small dice. Season with cayenne and 
a little salt. Mix with it some mayonnaise, sufficient to bind the fish. Fill up the 
little moulds with this, leaving space at the top for another layer of the aspic mayon- 
naise. Put the moulds on ice until quite firm. Turn out, dress them in a circle, 
put some nicely seasoned salad in the centre, and garnish the dish with chopped aspic. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable April to October. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

702. MOUSSE DE HOMARD. 

1 lobster. I ^ gill white sauce (No. 88). cayenne. 

1 gill cream. I 3 gills aspic jelly (No. 251). truffle. 

Line the bottom and sides of a l|-pint size timbale-mould with aspic jelly, let 
it set on ice. When the jelly is firm, decorate the bottom of the mould with truffle 
cut out in fancy shapes to form a pretty design ; sprinkle over some more jelly, 

158 




u 

a 

C 

o 

z 

-«j 

c 
o 

e 

3 

«J 

CO 

lU 

-o 

c 



FISH ENTREES {COLD) 159 

sufficient to set the decoration. Split the lobster dowTi the back, crack the claws, 
take out the meat. Put this into a mortar, add the sauce, pound well, and rub 
through a sieve. Put the puree into a basin, season it to taste with cayenne and 
a little salt, whip the cream shghtly, and add it to the mixture Avith about 1 gill of 
aspic. JNIix all well together, turn it into the prepared mould, and put on ice to set. 
Turn out when ready, and garnish the dish with chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley. 
Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable April to October. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

703. MEDAILLONS DE SAUMON A LA MONTPELLIER (MEDALLIONS OF 

SALMON, MONTPELLIER STYLE). 



2 ^Ibs. salmon, tail-end. 

1 oz. Montpellier butter (No. 181). 

1 tablespoonful cooked spinach. 



^ pint mayonnaise sauce I 2 truffles. 

(No. 134). ; butter. 

1 hard-boiled white of egg. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
mixed vegetables. 
1 gill white wine. 



Fillet the salmon, put on a buttered baking-sheet, season with pepper and salt. 
Pour the wine over, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about 
twenty minutes. Wlien cooked, let cool, then cut out with an oval cutter eight 
medallions. Mix half the mayonnaise into | gill of aspic jelly ; with this coat 
the ovals of salmon. When set, decorate each one with truffle, and then glaze 
them with half-set aspic jelly. Pass the cooked spinach through a fine sieve, mix 
with it the Montpellier butter and 1 gill of aspic. Line a plain border mould with 
aspic jelly, decorate it with white of egg, hard boiled, cut out in fancy shapes, 
sprinkle a little aspic over to set the decoration. Now line over this mth the green 
puree, which must be first mixed Avith 1 gill of aspic jelly. After cutting out the 
medallions, flake the remainder of the salmon, put it into a basin, and mix with 
it an equal quantity of mayonnaise and aspic, season to taste, and fill up the border 
mould nearly to the top. Put a layer of aspic over all, put on ice to set. JVIix the 
vegetables with sufficient mayonnaise aspic to bind the vegetables together. When 
the mould is set, turn it out on to an entree-dish, place the vegetables in the centre 
in the form of a pyramid. Mount the medallions of salmon on the top of the border, 
leaning against the salad of vegetables ; garnish between the medallions with 
chopped aspic. Place a truffle on a hatelet, and run it through the centre of the 
pyramid. The dish is now ready to serve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

704. DARNE DE CABILLARD A LA PARISIENNE (SLICE OF COD, 

PARISIAN STYLE). 



2J lbs. middle-cut of cod. 

\ pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

Montpellier butter (No. 181). 



aspic jelly, 
chervil. 
1 truffle. 



8 artichoke bottoms. 
3 hard-boiled eggs, 
cooked peas. 



salt. 

\ gill cream. 

pepper. 



Put the cod into a saucepan containing boihng water, season with salt, and 
leave the fish in the boiling water until cooked. Do not let it boil or simmer. It 
will take about tliirty minutes to cook. When done, take up the fish, and let it 
get cold. Skin it, and cover with the mayonnaise into which has been mixed the 
whipped cream and a httle aspic jelly. Mask well all over, putting a second layer 
on if necessary. Leave it to set, then decorate with Montpelher butter through a 
forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached. Ornament here and there ^vith truffle and 
chervil leaves. Lift the darne on to a dish, surround ^vith the artichoke-bottoms 
(which have been filled ready with cooked peas mixed with mayonnaise), the hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters, and chopped aspic. Send some mayonnaise sauce to 
the table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

PT. ni. 11 



160 



THE WEAL COOKERY BOOK 



705. FILETS DE SOLES FARCIS EN FERS A CHEVAL (STUFFED FILLETS 

OF SOLES IN HORSESHOES). 



1 sole. 

Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

aspic jelly. 



1 tablespoonful cream. 
\ lemon. 
I oz. butter. 



lobster meat. 

mayomiaise sauce (No. 134). 

1 truffle. 

Chop some lobster meat finely, and mix with it sufficient Bechamel sauce to 
make into a paste. Season with salt and cayenne. Remove the fillets from the 
sole, spread the skin side of each with a layer of the lobster mixture, roll up, and 
place on a buttered tin. Sprinkle with salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice, cover 
with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Take up, 
and put aside to cool. Line six or eight horseshoe moulds with a thin layer of 
aspic jelly. When this is set, decorate them with small pieces of truffie, cut to 
represent the horseshoe nails ; set these in with a httle more aspic jelly. Biix 
some mayonnaise sauce ^vith an equal quantity of aspic jelly and the tablespoonful 
of cream ; line the moulds again with this. Cut the cooked fillets in shces, place 
one in each mould, fill up with mayonnaise-aspic, and put aside to set. Turn out, 
and dish on a bed of chopped aspic ; garnish with lettuce or sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1^ hours. In season from February to 
August. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 




Fia. 24. — Filets db Soles en Fees a Cheval. 

706. CCTELETTES DE HOMARD A LA CARDINAL (COLD LOBSTER CUTLETS). 

1 lobster. \ gill Cardinal sauce (No. 90). I aspic jelly. truffle. 

\ pint peas. mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 1 \ gill cream. seasoning. 

Coat six cutlet moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate them with truffle, 

•Bprinkle a few drops of aspic over to set the decoration. Spht the lobster down the 

back, take out the meat, chop it up finely, heat the sauce, and mix with the lobster. 

Add the cream, seasoning, and the same quantity of aspic jelly. Let the mixture 

oool, then fill up the decorated cutlet moulds, and put them in a cool place or on 

j ice to set. Mix the peas with mayonnaise sauce and aspic jelly, season nicely, and 

when it begins to set, fill a bomb-shaped mould. Let this also set on ice. When 

ready to serve, turn out the bomb into the centre of an entree-dish, turn the cutlets 

out of the moulds, and set them round the bomb of peas standing up. Decorate 

with chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley or small salad, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable April to October. 

Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 



v-^>-- 



.>?^ 



FISH ENTREES {COLD) 



161 



707. TIMBALE DE SAUMON A LA MOSCOVITE. 



lib. cooked salmon -meat. 

12 oysters. 

1 pint aspic jelly. 



1 truffle. 
1 gill cream, 
cucumber. 



cayenne. 

salt. 

J gill white sauce (No. 88). 



Mask a timbale moiild (H-pint size) with aspic jelly ; when this is ?et, decorate 
the bottom and sides with fancy shapes of truffle, cucumber-slices cut in halves, and 
quarters, and some pieces of salmon. Sprinkle over the decoration with a few 
drops of aspic jelly in order to fix it. Pound the salmon, season with salt and 
cayenne, add the sauce, and mix well. Rub through a fine sieve, add to the puree 
thus made 1 gill of aspic jelly, and the same quantity of slightly whipped cream, 
Mix all well together, put a layer of this in the decorated mould, then on that a 
layer of six bearded oysters, on that again some more of the mixture, then the 
remaining six oysters. Fill the mould with the salmon preparation, put on the ice, 
and, when set, dip the mould into warm water, and turn on to a dish. Garnish the 
dish with chopped aspic and thin shces of cucumber, the skin of which has been 
grooved. Serve as a cold fish entree. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to April. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



708. FILETS DE SOLES EN BELLE-VUE. 



2 soles, 
truffle, 
peas. 



1 pint pink chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 128). 
1 gill white wine. 



6 large prawns. 
1 gill Cardinal sauce 
(No. 90). 



aspic jelly. lemon-juice. 

3 ozs. rice. parsley. 

1 pint stock. seasoning. 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, 
season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Pour over the wine, cover with buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. When cooked, take them up, and 
let cool. Trim and coat them with the pink chaudfroid sauce, decorate each witli 
truffles cut in fancy shapes, and coat with half-set aspic. Boil the stock, stir in th ^ 
rice, and cook until tender. When done, mix with it 1 gill of Cardinal sauce an 1 
a httle aspic jelly. Turn this into a timbale mould, and let it set on ice. Coat a 
small dariole mould with aspic jelly, and fill it with peas set in aspic. When ready 
to serve, turn out the large mould on to an entree-dish, dress the coated fillets 
round, place the smaller mould on the top of the larger one, arrange the prau-ns 
round this. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic and sprigs of fresh parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 to 8 persons. 

709. TURBOTIN A LA RAVIGOTE (CHICKEN TURBOT WITH RAVIGOTE 

BUTTER). 



1 truffle. 

seasoning. 

1 gill white wine. 



1 gill fish stock. 

butter. 

tartare sauce (No. 143). 



1 medium-sized chicken I aspic jelly (No. 251). 

turbot. I 2 hard-boiled eggs, 

ravigote butter (No. 183). | ^ pint cooked peas. 

Butter a baking-tin, clean and trim the fish, place it on the tin, season with 
pepper, salt, and lemon- juice. Add to it the fish stock and wine, cover with a 
buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven for twenty to thirty minutes. When done, 
take up, and let it get cold. Make sufficient ravigote butter to cover the fish all 
over (the quantity depends on the size of the fish) ; when this is set, decorate it 
tastefully with slices of truffle cut \\ath a fancy cutter. Cover with a layer of half- 
set aspic jelly. Lift the fish carefully on to a dish. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in 
halves or quarters, put these round the sides of the fish alternately with fittle groups 
of cooked peas and chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a sauce tureen of tartare sauce. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at any time. 
.Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 

11—2 



162 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

710. MAYONNAISE DE SAUMON (SALMON MAYONNAISE). 



1| lbs. salmon, tail-end. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 



1 cos lettuce. 
6 stoned olives. 



1| gills mayonnaise I 1 cucumber. 
(No. 134). I 1 gill cream. 



Cook the salmon in the usual way, let it get cold, remove the skin and bones, 
and flake the meat. Tear the lettuce into pieces, put this vAih the salmon into a 
salad-bowl, whip the cream, and add it to the mayonnaise sauce. Put this with 
the salmon and lettuce, season to taste, mix all well together. Shape into a pyramid 
in the centre of the bowl, and garnish with thin shces of cucumber, the hard-boiled 
eggs cut in quarters, and the stoned olives. Arrange prettily, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to August 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

711. PETITS SALPICONS DE HOMARD EN FERS A CHEVAL (LITTLE 

HORSESHOES OF LOBSTER). 



cooked lobster, 
lobster spa^vn. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). mayonnaise sauce (No 

134). 



1 truffle. 
1 lettuce. 



1 tablespoonful cream. 

Line six small horseshoe moulds vnth. a very thin layer of aspic jelly ; when set, 
decorate the moulds with small pieces of truffle to represent the nails of the horse- 
shoe. Set this decoration in with a little more jelly. Colour some aspic jelly 
with a little lobster spawn which has been pounded and rubbed through a sieve. 
Heat this over the fire, allow it to cool a little ; then mix in an equal quantity of 
mayonnaise sauce, and line the moulds thinlj^ \vitli it. Chop some lobster-meat 
finely, mix vdih. a little of the mayonnaise aspic and 1 tablespoonful of cream. Fill 
the moulds with this, and put aside to set. Prepare a salad ^^dth the lettuce, and a 
Httle oil and vinegar. Make a bed of it in a dish, turn out the moulds, and arrange 
neatly on the salad. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic jelly, sprigs of parsley, 
and a few small lettuce-leaves. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1| to 2 hours. In season from February 
to September. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2 small soles. 

1 pint aspic jelly. 

1 gill picked shrimps. 



butter. 

lemon-juice. 

I gill white wine. 



712. SOLES FARCIS EN ASPIC (STUFFED SOLES IN ASPIC). 

Cardinal sauce (No. 90). 
pepper and salt, 
parsley. 

Fillet the soles, chop the shrimps finely. Put them into a mortar \Yiih. sufficient, 
white sauce to make a paste — about | gill — pound well together, season to taste. 
Pass the mixture through a fine vdvQ sieve. Lay the fillets of sole flat on a board, 
skin side uppermost, season \\dth pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Spread over them 
a layer of the shrimp mixture, roll them up, wrap each roll in a piece of buttered 
paper, and place on a buttered baking-tin. Add the wine, and cook in the oven 
for fifteen minutes. When cooked, remove them from the tin, and let them get 
cold. While the fish is being cooked, melt the aspic jelly in a saucepan, taking 
care that it does not get too hot. Place a tablespoonful of this at the bottom of 
six small fluted dariole moulds, allow them to set on the ice. When the fillets are 
cold, unwrap them from the paper, and then cut each roll carefully into several 
slices. Put one of these at the bottom of each mould on the set aspic, pour a little 
more jelly over each to fix the slices. When this is firm, put into each mould some 
more pieces of fish leaning against the sides, fill the moulds with hquid aspic jelly, 
and put Stside to set. When ready to serve, turn out the little shapes on to a silver 
dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and sprigs of fresh parsley. (See coloured 
plate. ) 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 1^ hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 




o 

Q. 

to 

< 

C 
(J 

(/) 

o 

«J 

(/J 
_W 

O 
CO 






FISH ENTREES {COLD) 



163 



713. COQUILLES DE POISSON A LA CHIFFONADE (SHELLS 

OF FISH). 



1 lb. halibut. 
1 crab, 
bouquet garni. 



1 onion. 
1 clove, 
salt and pepper. 



I pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

1 teaspoonful each parsley, chives, and shallot. 

1 teaspoonful French mustard. 

Put the halibut into salted water, to which has been added the bouquet garni 
and onion stock, with one clove. Bring to the boil, draw the saucepan off the fire, 
and let it stand in the boiling water until cooked. When done, drain it, and let it 
cool ; then take away all skin and bone, and flake the flesh into rather large pieces. 
Take all the white meat from the crab, and chop it into neat squares. Dust ^vith 
pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add the mustard and the chopped parsley, 
chives, and shallot to the mayonnaise, toss the fish hghtly in this, and fill the shells 
with it. Decorate with chopped parsley. 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable August to April. Suffi- 
cient for 10 shells. 




Fra. 25. — Coquilles db Poisson a la Chitfc^'abs. 



714. ECRIVISSES A LA DUCHESSE (PRAWNS, DUCHESS STYLE). 



2 doz. prawns, 
aspic jelly. 



cucumber. parsley. chervil. 

i gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). tan agon. 3 olives. 

Line a plain timbale mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly. When this is set, 
decorate the mould ^vith thin slices of cucumber up the sides, and a row of shelled 
prawns between each row of cucumber. Set these decorations in with more aspic 
jelly, taking care not to displace them. Shell the remaining pra\\ais, and put the 
heads aside for garnish. Chop the pra^vns fhiely, also the parsley, tarragon, chervil, 
and olives. Mix all these ingredients together in a basin, season with a pinch of 
cayenne pepper. Stir into it | gill of mayonnaise sauce, and about 2 gills of liquid 
aspic jelly. Stir this mixture occasionally until nearly set, then pour into the 
decorated mould,- and put aside. When ready, turn out on to a dish, garnish round 
with chopped jelly, prawn-heads, and shces of cucumber, which have been scalloped 
at the edges. Place some slices of cucumber and a few prawn-heads on the top of 
the mould also. Send to table as soon as possible after dishing. 
... Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. In season from February to 
September. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



164 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2 lbs. middle-cut of cod. 1 aspic jelly, 
bouquet garni. | parsley. 



715. DARNE DE CABILLAUD A LA TYROLIENNE (COD WITH TYROLIENNE 

SAUCE). 

Tyrolienne sauce (No. truffle. 1 onion. 

144). 1 carrot. 1 clove. 

Put the onion, stuck with one clove, the carrot, bouquet garni, and salt into a 
steAA^pan. Place the cod on the vegetables, cover with boiling water, bring to the 
boil, draw to the side of the fire, and let it remain in the boiling water until cooked ; 
then drain, and let it cool. Have ready the sauce, mix with it a little aspic, and, 
when beginning to set, coat the fish with it all over. Decorate vnth truffle, cut out 
in fancy shapes, and mask over with half-set aspic. Dish the fish, and garnish with 
chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

716. HOMARD EN ASPIC (LOBSTER IN ASPIC). 

1 lobster. | aspic jelly (No. 251). 

Split the lobster, remove the meat from the body ; break shell of the claws 
carefully, so as to extract them whole. Melt the aspic jelly in a saucepan, pour a 
little into the bottom of six small plain or fluted dariole moulds. Put this aside 
to set. When ready, decorate the bottom of each with a piece of lobster-claw, 
cover this with aspic jelly, and allow it to set. Place in each mould several more 
pieces of lobster, taking care to have the reddest outside, so as to give it a pretty 
appearance when turned out. Fill up the moulds with liquid aspic jelly, and put 
on the ice to set. When ready to serve, turn out the little moulds by dipping them 
for a moment in warm water, place on an entree-dish, and garnish with chopped 
aspic jelly and sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. In season from April to October. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

717. PETITES BARQUETTES DE SAUMON. 
4 ozs. pu£f or short paste. | 3 ozs. salmon. | J gill aspic. | J gill cream. | cucumber. | 1 truffle. 

Roll out the paste thinly, line some boat-shaped moulds, prick the paste with a 
fork, and fill them with raAv rice. Bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take 
out the rice carefully, and let cool. Take the boiie and skin away from the fish. 
Pound the meat in a mortar, and rub it through a wire sieve. Add the aspic to 
the puree, stir until it begins to set ; then add the cream slightly whipped, and 
seasoning. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe, and fill the 
pastry shapes with it. Scollop the edges of the cucumber-slices, decorate the cases 
with them, and put a star of truffie in the centre of each. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

718. PETITES TIMBALES DE HOMARD A LA RUSSE (LITTLE MOULDS 

OF LOBSTER WITH CAVIAR). 



1 lobster (J lb). 1 pint aspic jelly. 

4 ozs. caviar. 



1 gill cream, 
seasoning. 



salad, 
mayonnaise. 



1 truffle. 

Line some small moulds with aspic jelly. When this is set, decorate Avith a 
star of truffie at the bottom of each. Cut the lobster doAATi the back, take out the 
meat (Avhich should weigh | lb.) from the body and the claws ; chop the meat finely, 
mix the caviar Avith it, Avhip the cream slightly. Add this and the same quantity 
of aspic jelly to the mixture, season to taste, and fill up the little moulds. Put 
them on ice. When set, turn out on to a round dish, dress them in a circle, and 
put a salad mixed with mayonnaise in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable April to October. Sufl&- 
oient for 8 persons. 



FISH ENTREES {COLD) 



165 



719. MAYONNAISE DE FILETS DE SOLES (MAYONNAISE OF FILLETS 

OF SOLES). 

2 soles. pepper. J pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 131). I 3 hard-boiled eggs, 

butter. salt. chopped tarragon, chervil, and 1 lettuce, 

lemon-juice. J gill cream. parsley. | lemon-juice. 

Fillet the soles, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, season with salt, pepper, 
and lemon- juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten to fifteen 
minutes. When done, take up the fillets, and let them cool. Shred the lettuce, 
whip the cream, and mix it into the mayonnaise. Cut the fillets into pieces, not 
too small, season, and sprinkle a little oil and vinegar over them. Arrange the 
lettuce on a dish, put over tliis some mayonnaise ; then pile up the fish in a pyra- 
midal form, mask the whole with the maj'onnaise, and sprinkle the chopped herbs 
over. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and arrange tastefully round the base of 
the dish. Tliis dish should be served as soon as possible after making. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



720. TURBAN DE FILETS DE SOLES A LA MONTPELLIER. 



2 soles, 
aspic jelly 
seasoning. 
1 shallot. 



lemon-juice. 
1 truffle. 
1 oz. butter, 
salad. 



3 hard-boiled eggs. 
3 boned anchovies. 
J gill white wine, 
spinach greening. 



1 tablespoonful cooked 

spinach. 
J lb. cooked whiting 

meat. 



2 tablespoonfuls cream. 
1 oz. anchovy paste. 
1 teaspoonful tarragon. 
1 dessertspoonful parsley. 

Mask a border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; when this is set decorate it 
with hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, cut out with a fancy cutter, sprinkle 
some aspic over the decoration, in order to set it. Chop fmely one hard-boiled egg- 
yolk, the shallot, and anchovies ; put them into a mortar with the butter, spinach, 
parsley, and tarragon. When well pounded, add 1 tablespoonful of cream, and 
season to taste. Rub this mixture through a fine wire sieve ; dilute the puree with 
about 1 gill of aspic jelly ; add some spinach greening, in order to make it a nice 
colour. Put a thin layer of this mixture all over the mould, bottom and sides ; 
let it set on ice. In the meanwhile, chop the whiting meat finely, put it into a 
mortar and pound well, add the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, the anchovy 
paste, 1 tablespoonful of cream, and seasoning. When this has been thoroughly 
pounded, pass it through a wire sieve. Line the mould with this puree, inside the 
green. Fillet the soles, cut each fillet in half, put these pieces on a buttered tin, 
season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice ; add the wine, cover with buttered paper, 
and cook in the oven for ten minutes. When done, take up, drain the fillets, and 
let them get cold. Set these fillets in a row in the border, fill up nearly to the top 
with the whiting puree, then cover with the green mixture ; let it set on ice until 
quite firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, and turn it out 
on to an entree-dish ; fill the centre with a nicely-prepared salad, garnish with 
chopped aspic round the base, and serve. 

Average cost, 43. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



3 soles, 
butter, 
lettuce. 
pepper. 



721. FILETS DE SOLES EN ASPIC A LA TRIANON. 

salt, 
truffle, 
chervil. 
1 clove 



6 ozs. rice, 
seasoning. 
1 lobster. 
1 onion. 



1 gill shrimps, 
lobster spawn, 
lemon-juice, 
aspic jelly. 



1 glass white 

wine. 
1^ pints fish 

stock. 



1 pint white chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 124). 
spinach greening. 
^ ^^ mayonnaise (No. 134). 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half, place them on a baking-sheet, season 
w^ith salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, add the wdne, and poach in a moderate oven 
for ten minutes. Take up when cooked, drain, and let them get cold. Break up 
the bones of the soles, put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, add the 
onion, stuck with one clove, and put over the fire to simmer for twenty minutes. 



16(5 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

Strain, and make the amount up to 1| pints with milk and water. Put this stock 
into a clean saucepan, bring to the boil, sprinkle in the rice, and boil until the rice 
is tender and has absorbed the stock. The rice must be well stirred while cooking. 
When done, press into a border mould, and let it get cold. Have ready the chaud- 
froid sauce ; divide it into three parts ; leave one part white, and colour the other 
two parts respectively pink with the spawn and green with spinach greening. 
Coat the fillets with these sauces, four green, four pink, and four white. When 
this coating is set, decorate the green and pink fillets with truffle, and the white 
ones with chervil leaves ; then mask the fillets with half -set aspic jelly. Turn 
out the rice border on to a round dish, mix the shredded lettuce, shrimps, and 
lobster, cut in dice, with the mayonnaise ; mix all well together, and fill the centre 
of the mould with it ; pile up as high as possible, and dress the fillets of sole on the 
border, leaning against the salad. Garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

722. PAUPIETTES DE SOLES A LA REGENCE. 



2 soles. 


2 yolks of eggs. 


aspic jelly. 


2 anchovy fillets. 


truffle. 


1 whiting. 


butter. 


sa ad. 


Montpellier butter (No. 181). 


1 onion. 


\ lemon. 


\ gill cream. 


seasoning. 


\ gill white wine. 


1 clove. 



Fillet the soles, bone the whiting, chop the meat finely, put it into a mortar, 
with the anchovy fillets, the two raw yolks, and seasoning ; pomid well, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Put the bones and trimmings of the soles and whiting into a 
saucepan, add the onion and clove, cover with water, and simmer for twenty 
minutes. Put a layer of the forcemeat on each fillet of sole, roll up, season them 
with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice ; place the rolls on a buttered baking-sheet, 
packing them close together, so that they may keep their shape. Add the wine and 
a gill of fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook for about fifteen minutes 
in a moderate oven. As soon as they are done, take up the fillets, drain, and put 
aside to get cold. Mix the cream with 1^ gills of liquid aspic jelly ; stir this mixture 
over ice until it begins to slightly set, then coat the fillets with it. Continue to do 
tliis until the fillets are thoroughly coated. Dish the paupiettes in a circle on a romid 
dish, put the Montpellier butter in a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached, and 
decorate the top of each fillet with it. Fill the centre of the dish with salad, and 
garnish round with chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

723. FILETS DE SOLES A LA ROYALE. 



2 soles, 
aspic jelly. 
J oz. gelatine. 



3 gills tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 tablesjDoonful grated horse- 
radish. 



butter. seasoning. 

1 gill cream. 1 glass white wine. 

truffles. lemon-juice. 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half ; butter a baking-sheet, arrange the . 
fillets on it, season them with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, add the wine, cover ' 
with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Care must 
be taken not to let them discolour. When cooked, take up the fillets, drain, and 
put them on a dish to get cold. In the meanwhile stir the cream into \ pint of aspic 
jelly, grate or chop the horseradish very finely, add this to the aspic cream, season 
to taste, and pour into a silver entree-dish. Let this set. Now mix the tomato 
sauce with 1 gill of aspic jelly, in which | ounce of gelatine has been melted, stir 
on ice until just beginning to set. Coat the fillets of sole with it ; continue to do this 
until the sauce sets on them. Decorate each fillet with truffles, cut out wdth a 
fancy cutter, and then glaze with half-set aspic jelly. Dish the fillets on the aspic 
cream in a circle, garnish the centre with a little salad or chopped aspic, and servo. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 



FISH ENTREES (COLD) 



167 



724. FILETS DE SOLES A LA MAYONNAISE (FILLETS OF SOLES WITH 

MAYONNAISE). 



2 soles. 


1 gill white ^vine. 


1 pint aspic jelly. 


salad. 


i oz. butter. 


1 gill mayonnaise 


truffles. 


1 gill cream 


i lemon. 


(No. 134). 


^ oz. gelatine. 


seasoning. 



Fillet the soles, trim them, and fold each in half ; butter a baking-tin, lay the 
filleted soles on it, sprinkle with lemon- juice and salt, add the wine, cover -with a 
buttered paper, and put them into the oven for about ten minutes. When done, 
take them off the tin they Avere cooked in, place on a plate, and let them get cold. 
Melt the gelatine in a little water over the fire, strain it into a gill of melted aspic 
jelly ; let this cool, then stir it into the mayonnaise. Whip the cream, and mix 
with the aspic mayonnaise. When the fillets of soles are quite cold, coat them 
with this mixture ; let it set, and then do them a second time. After the soles are 
well coated, decorate them with truffles, cut out with a small fancy cutter. As 
soon as they are all decorated, coat them with half-set aspic jelly, in order to give 
them a glossy appearance. Arrange a salad in the centre of a dish, dress the fillets 
standing up against it, garnish with chopped aspic between each fillet and round the 
dish, place an hatelet in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasona])le at all tim^es. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 




^ 



Fig. 26. — Filets db Soles a la Mayonnaise. 



725. FILETS DE SOLES A LA RUSSE. 
2 sole-.. I 1 gill fish stock. | 1 lemon. | 8 tomatoes. | butter. | ca\iar. i aspic jelly. | seasoning. 
Fillet the soles, have ready buttered some small wooden rollers, roll one fillet 
round each, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, with the sides that join next the 
tin, in order to keep them in shape, sprinkle with salt and lemon-juice, add the fish 
stock, and poach in the oven for ten minutes. When done, take them up, drain, 
and let them get cold. Remove the rollers, and fill the cavity with caviar. Cut 
ihe tomatoes (which should be small) a third part down from the top, squeeze out 
the inside, and peel them. Place one of the stuffed fillets in each tomato ; dish 
them in a circle, fill the centre of the dish and garnish round the tomatoes Avith 
chopped aspic jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufli- 
ciont for 8 persona 



168 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

726. DOMINOS DE FILETS DE SOLES. 

1 sole. I \ pint white chaudfroid aspic jelly. I caviar. I seasoning, 

truffle. I sauce (No. 12i). \ gill white wine. | butter, i lemon-juice. 

Fillet the sole (a large one), put the fillets on a buttered baking-sheet, season 
with salt and lemon-juice, add the \\dne, cover with a buttered paper, and cook 
in the oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, drain them, put them on a /^ 
dish with another one on the top, and place on it a light weight. Let the fish 
remain until cold. When the fillets are quite cold, cut them into pieces the size 
and shape of dominoes ; cut the truffie in slices, and stamp out some small dots 
Avith a column cutter. Coat the pieces of fish with white chaudfroid sauce. When 
this is set, decorate them with the dots of truffle in imitation of dominoes, and 
then mask them with half-set aspic jelly. Pound the remains of the fish in a mortar, 
add to it the same quantity of caviar, and rub this mixture through a fine sieve. 
Add to this puree sufficient aspic jelly to set the mixture, put it into a slightly 
greased or oiled tin ; the thickness of this should be the same as the dominoes. 
When this preparation is set, turn it out of the tin, and cut it into pieces the same 
shape and size as the prepared dominoes ; coat these with aspic jelly, and fix the 
sole dominoes to them. Chop some aspic jelly, arrange it in the centre of a dish, 
and place the dominoes on it. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 



2 soles. 
aspic jelly. 
^ oz. gelatine. 



1 gill cream. 
I oz. gelatine. 
lemon-juice. 



salt. 

cavenne. 

truffle. 



727. FILETS DE SOLES A LA MOUSSE DE TOMATES (FILLETS OF SOLES 

WITH TOMATO MOUSSE). 

\ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
^ pint white chaudfroid sauce 
(No. 124). 

Fillet the soles, fold each fillet in half ; butter a baking-sheet ; arrange the fillets 
on it ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice. Cover them with a buttered paper, 
and bake in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes ; care must be taken not to 
let them discolour. When cooked, take up the fillets, drain, and let them get cold. 
In the meanwhile, prepare the tomato sauce ; dissolve in it the gelatine ; let it get 
nearly cold, strain, and mix in the cream slightly whipped ; season with salt and 
cayenne. Pour this preparation into a silver entree dish, and let it set. As soon 
as the fillets of sole are cold, lay them on a wire tray, and coat wdth the white chaud- 
froid sauce. As soon as tliis is set, decorate each fillet with truffle, cut out in fancy 
patterns, and then mask the fillets \vith half -set aspic jelly. Dish the fillets on the 
tomato mousse, in a circle ; garnish the centre with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 



728. PETITES TIMBALES DE FILETS DE SOLES (LITTLE MOULDS OF FILLETS 

OF SOLES). 

i gill slirimps or 

prawns, 
seasoning, 
salad. 



2 small soles. 
^ gill white wine. 
1 truffle. 
\ gill cream. 



1 gill mayonnaise 
sauce (No. 134). 

aspic jelly (No. 
251). 



\ teaspoonful anchovy pa.sto. 
\ gill well reduced Bechamel 

sauce (No. 4). 
I lemon. 

Fillet the soles, flatten and trim them. Chop the shrimps or prawns finely ; put 
them into a mortar, add the anchovy paste and the Bechamel sauce, season to taste ; 
pound all well together to a paste. Lay the fillets of sole out flat on a board ; season 
them with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice ; cover with a layer of the shrimp mixture ; 
roll up, put them on a buttered baking-tin, place them close together to prevent 
them unrolling ; season again, add the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook 
in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. When done, take them up, drain, and 



FISH ENTREES {COLD) 169 

let them get cold. Coat eight dariole moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; 
when set, decorate the bottom of each mould with truffle cut out in fancy shapes ; 
set this in with a little more aspic. \^'liip the cream, mix it into the mayonnaise ; 
add about 1 gill of aspic jelly, and as soon as it begins to set, coat the little moulds 
all over with it. As soon as this is set, place in each mould one of the rolled and 
stuffed fillets ; cover over with the mayonnaise mixture. Place the timbales on ice 
to set. When quite firm, dip them into warm water, and turn out on to a cold dish. 
Arrange in a circle, place a nicely -prepared salad in the centre, and garnish with 
chopped aspic. The dish is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



1 trout. 

1 lobster {\ lb. meat). 

1 gill cream. 



stock. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 

lobster coral. 



729. FILETS DE TRUITE A LA MOUSSE DE HOMARD (FILLETS OF TROUT 

WITH LOBSTER MOUSSE). 

chervil. 

seasoning. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Cook the trout in sufficient stock to cover ; let it cool, then take it up and drain ; 
take oflE the fillets, and skin them carefully. Chop the lobster finely, put it into a 
mortar with the Bechamel sauce, and pound well ; season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and cayenne, then rub it through a wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, add it 
to the lobster mixture ; stir in sufficient cold liquid aspic jelly to set the mixture. 
Turn this preparation into a silver entree dish, and let it set. Arrange the fillets of 
trout on this back to back ; decorate them with lobster coral and chervil-leaves. 
Coat them with aspic jelly, and place on ice until ready to serve. 

Average cost of trout, about Is. 2d. per pound. Time required, 1| hours 
Seasonable from February'' to September. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

730. TRUITE SAUMONEE A LA MODERNE (SALMON TROUT, MODERN STYLE). 



1 salmon trout. 


\ gill cream. 


cucumber. 


1 clove. 


1 gill mayonnaise 


J pint aspic jelly. 


cooked rice. 


salt. 


(No. 134). 


truffles. 


1 onion. 


parsley. 



Wash the trout, put it into a fish-kettle with the onion and clove, cover with hot 
water, add some salt, and bring to the boil ; simmer gently until the fish is cooked. 
Take up the trout carefully, and let it get cold. Skin it, and place on a bed of 
cooked rice in the centre of a dish. Mix the mayonnaise with the whipped cream 
and a gill of aspic jelly ; stir until it begins to set, then coat the trout all over with 
it ; decorate with truffle, cut out \\dth a fancy cutter in a pretty design, mask with 
half -set aspic, and put aside to get quite set. Garnish the dish before sending it to 
table with chopped aspic, thin slices of cucumber, and sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to 
September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

731. BORDURE DE FILETS DE SOLES EN ASPIC (BORDER OF FILLETS OF 

SOLES IN ASPIC). 



2 soles. 



i pint mayonnaise 



seasoning, 
butter. 



truffles, 
salad. 



1 glass white wine, 
aspic jelly. (No. 134). lemon-juice. 

Fillet the soles, fold each in half, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet ; season 
■with salt and lemon-juice, add the wine ; cover with a buttered paper, and cook 
in the oven for ten minutes. Take them up, drain, and cool. Line a border mould, 
sides and bottom, wdth aspic jelly ; when set, decorate tastefully with truffles, cut 
out in fancy patterns, sprinkle a little liquid aspic jelly over the decoration in order 
to set it. Mix a gill of aspic jelly with the maj^onnaise ; stir on ice until it begins 
to stiffen, then coat the mould all over with it ; this must be done on ice, first letting 
the mixture on the bottom of the mould set, then turning the mould on the ice in 



170 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

order to set the sides. When tliis is finished, put in the fillets of sole, overlapping 
each other all round the mould ; pour over these a layer of truffle slices, then a layer 
of the aspic mayonnaise, and lastly, when tliis is set, fill up with aspic jelly. Put 
the mould on ice until thoroughly set. To serve, dip the mould into warm water, 
turn out on to a round dish, put in the centre a nicely-prepared salad, and garnish 
round the base with chopped aspic jelly. The dish is now ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2 hard- boiled eggs. 

a few French beans and peas. 

mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



732. BORDURE DE TURBOT A L'lTALIENNE (BORDER OF TURBOT, ITALIAN 

STYLE). 

1 lettuce. 2 turnips. ^ lb. cooked turbot. 
aspic jelly. 2 potatoes. 6 anchovy fillets. 

2 carrots. 2 tomatoes. a few capers. 

Coat a border mould all over with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Cut the cooked 
turbot into strips, and shred the lettuce. When the aspic jelly in the mould is set, 
arrange in it a layer of shredded lettuce, sprinkle over some liquid aspic jelly, then 
put in a layer of the fish, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, then add some aspic ; 
continue in this way until the mould is full, then put on ice to set. In the mean- 
while, cook the vegetables, cut them all into dice, also the anchovy fillets and the 
tomatoes ; mix all these together, add the capers and sufficient mayonnaise to bind. 
Turn out the mould when set, put the vegetable salad in the centre, sprinkle a little 
chopped parsley on the top. Garnish round the base of the border with the hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in quarters, chopped aspic jelly, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve 
as a cold fish entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 



12 oysters, 
lemon-juice. 



733. BORDURE D'HUlTRES EN SURPRISE. 

\ gill cream, salad. IJ pints white i J pint pink chaudfroid 

6 ozs. rice. aspic jelly (No 251). stock. | sauce (No. 128). 



aspic jelly (No 251). 

Beard the oysters, put them into a saucepan, add their liquor, and bring to the 
boil slowly, but do not let them actually boil. Take up the oysters, drain, and let 
them get cold. Coat twelve oyster-moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly. Mix 
the cream with a gill of aspic jelly, and put a layer of this over the moulds ; let it 
set, then put an oyster in each mould ; season with pepper and salt and a few drops 
of lemon-juice ; fill up the moulds with the aspic cream, and place on ice to set, 
Boil the rice in the stock, and when the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock, 
season to taste, and pack into a border mould which has been rinsed out in cold 
water ; let this get cold. When ready to serve, turn out the rice border, and coat 
it carefully all over with red chaudfroid sauce. Place this border on a roimd dish ; 
turn out the oyster moulds, and arrange them on the prepared border. Fill the 
centre with salad, garnish round the border with chopped aspic jelly, and the dish 
is ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 12 persons. 



734. CHAUDFROID D'HUlTRES A LA MONTPELLIER. 



12 oysters. 



1 pint aspic jelly. J oz. gelatine. 



J gill cream. 



lemon-juice, 
seasoning. 



1 tablespoonful spinach puree. 
1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Beard the oysters, and put them into a ste^vpan with the liquor, and bring to 
the boil ; then take them off the fire, drain the oysters, and let them get cold. Melt 
the gelatine in the oyster liquor, add the spinach puree, season to taste, mix with 
the sauce, and stir over the fire ; when well mixed^ take it off the fire, and stir in the 



FISH ENTREES (COLD) 



171 



cream ; then add I gill of aspic jelly. Take twelve oyster moulds, coat them with 
a thin layer of aspic jelly ; when this is set, cover with a layer of the green sauce, 
put an oyster in each mould, sprinkle them wdth lemon-juice, season with pepper 
and salt, and fill up the moulds with, the sauce Put the moulds on ice, and let them 
set. Chop some aspic, pile it up in the centre of a dish ; turn ou* the oyster moulds, 
and dress them romid the aspic in a circle ; garnish wdth chopped aspic between 
each shape. Place a hatelet and a truffle in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable September to March. 
Sufficient for 12 persons. 

735. PETITES TIMBALES DECRIVISSES A LA REFORME (LITTLE TIMBALES 

OF PRAWNS, REFORM STYLE). 

3 dozen prawns. I 1 gill mayonnaise sauce I salt. 

1 pint aspic jelly (No. 251). I (No. 134). | cayenne. 

Line six small timbale moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly ; when set, 
decorate each with some of the praAMis, allowing four praAvns to each mould ; 
sprinkle a few drops of jelly over the prawns in order to set them firmly. 
Whip some aspic jelly mitil it is white and frothy ; coat the moulds all over 
with this ; place on ice. Cut the remainder of the prawns into dice ; put these 
into a basin, and season them vnth. salt and cayenne ; mix wdth mayonnaise 
sauce and aspic jelly ; fill up the moulds mth this, and let them set. When 
ready to serve, turn out the moulds by dipping them into warm water, dish 
them in a circle on an entree dish, garnish with chopped aspic and sprigs of 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, micertain. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable April to 
August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



736. MOUSSE- DE SAUMON 



A LTNDIENNE (MOUSSE OF 
STYLE). 



SALMON, INDIAN" 



cochineal. 



^ oz. flour, 
seasoning. 



1 lb. cooked salmon. 1 dessertspoonful curry- 2 onions, 

aspic jelly (No. 251). i powder. 1 oz. butter. 

1 gill fish stock. I anchovy butter (No. 174). 1 gill cream. 

Chop the salmon finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; chop the onions, and fry 
in the butter mthout bro\Miing ; mix the curry-powder and flour together, stir 
them into the onions, and fry for a few minutes ; then add the stock, and stir until 
it boils. Boil and reduce, then pass this sauce through a strainer or fine sieve. 
Pound the salmon, add the sauce, mix well, and rub through a sieve ; put this 
puree into a basin, whip the cream slightly, and stir into the mixture ; add some 
aspic jelly, about | pint ; mix all well together, and season to taste. Fasten a band 
of paper round a souffle case, so that it stands up two inches above the brim. Colour 
the salmon mixture with a few drops of cochineal, and fill up the souffle case vnth. the 
preparation ; put it on ice to set. Before serving, take off the band of paper, put 
the anchovy butter into a piping bag, and decorate the top of the souffle with it. 
) Dish up and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable February to August. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



737. CREME DE HOMARD. 



2 tablespoonfulfl 
mayonnaise. 



1 lobster. truffle. J pint white chaudfroid 2 gills cream, 

aspic jelly. chervil. sauce (No. 124). cayenne. 

Split the lobster down the back, crack the claws, take out the meat, keep some 
nice pieces for decoration, and chop the remainder. Coat the inside of a plain char- 
lotte mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mix with the white chaudfroid sauce 



172 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ gill of cream. As soon as the aspic is set, decorate the mould with the pieces of 
lobster reserved for that pm^ose, truffle, and chervil-leaves ; sprinkle over a few drops 
of aspic jelly in order to set the decoration. As soon as it is set, coat the mould all 
over with the chaudf roid sauce ; this operation is best done by inserting a tm a size 
smaller, and filhng the sauce round it ; when this is set, pour some hot water into the 
tin in order to remove it. Fill the centre with the following mixture : Whip 1| gills 
•of cream slightly, mix into it the chopped lobster, add the mayonnaise, a httle 
•cayenne, and about l^ gills of aspic jelly ; blend well together ; let the mixture 
get half set, then use as directed. Put the mould on ice, and when firm, turn 
out on to a round silver entree dish ; garnish with chopped aspic and sprigs 
•of parsley. A dish of nicely dressed salad served with this cream is a great 
improvement. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable April to October. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 27. — Petites Mousses db Homard. 



^ 



■i 



738. PETITES MOUSSES DE HOMARD (LITTLE MOUSSES OF LOBSTER). 



1 lobster {\ lb. meat), 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 gill cream, 
truffle. 



salt, 
cayenne. 



J gill veloute sauce 
(No. 82). 

Split the lobster down the back, and crack the claws ; take out the meat, and 
^hop it finely. Make the veloute sauce with fish stock, and reduce well ; put the 
lobster meat and the sauce into a mortar, pomid well together, and rub the mixture 
through a wire sieve. Put this puree mto a basin, season with salt and cayenne, 
add to it the cream, sHghtly whipped, and a gill of aspic jelly. For these mousses 
little ramaquin cases are required ; silver or cliina are the best. Tie round each case 
.a band of stiff white paper (writing-paper is best), so that the paper comes 1 inch 
above the top of the case. Put at the bottom of each ramaquin a thin layer of aspic 
jelly ; fill up with the lobster mixture, so that it comes to the top of the paper. Put 
the little eases on ice to set ; when ready, decorate each with patterns cut out of 
truffle, using an ornamental cutter to do so ; cover over the top with a layer of half-set 
.aspic jelly. To serve, take the paper bands off carefully, dish in a circle, and garnish 
^ihe dish with sprigs of parsley or cress. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year, but 
J)e8t in the summer. Sufficient for 8 cases. 



FISH ENTREES (COLD) 



173 



739. MOUSSE DE CRABE EN ASPIC. 



1 large crab. 
1^ gills cream. 



1 hard-boiled white of egg. 
cayenne. 



truffle, 
parsley. 



salt. 1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). 

pepper. 1 pint aspic jelly (No. 251). 

Open the crab, crack the claws, and take out the meat. Make the veloute sauce 
with fish stock, if possible, put the meat of the crab into a mortar, pound it well, 
then add the sauce to it ; rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, 
and place on ice or in a cool place. Meanwhile, line a charlotte mould ^vith aspic 
jelly all over, decorate it with trulfle, cut out in fancy patterns, also the hard-boiled 
white of egg ; sprinkle a few drops of liquid aspic over in order to set the decorations. 
Add to the crab puree about 1| gills of liquid aspic jelly and the cream, slightly 
whipped. JVIix all together, season to taste, and fill the mould with the mixture. 
Put on ice to set. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, turn out 
the mousse on to an entree dish, garnish round with chopped aspic and a few spriga 
of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable August to April. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 




Fio. 28. — Mousse de Crabh. 



740. CHAUDFROID DE HOMARD. 



parsley. 

maj'onnaise (No. 134). 



1 lobster. aspic jelly (No. 251). I oysters, 

truffles. ^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 1 ^ gill cream. 

Spht the lobster down the back, crack the claws, and take out the meat carefully. 
Cut the meat from the tail into slices. Coat these with aspic jelly ; thiy must be done 
several times in order that there may be a thick coating on the slices ; decorate each 
with a slice of truffle cut out with a star-cutter. Blanch as many oysters as there are 
shces of lobster ; coat these with aspic in the same way. Pound the remainder of 
the lobster meat with the Bechamel sauce, rub through a sieve ; whip the cream 
slightly, stir this to the lobster puree, and then add sufficient cold hquid jelly to 
set the mixtm-e. Fill the shells of the lobster vnth tliis mousse, and let it set. 
When ready to serve, arrange the slices of lobster and oysters alternately on the 
mousse. Dish on a napkm, and garnish with fresh parsley. Serve with mayonnaise 
sauce sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, I J hours. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



174 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



741. TURBAN DE HOMARD (TURBAN OF LOBSTER). 



1 large lobster. 

1 lettuce. 

^ oz. gelatine. 



^ pint aspic. 
1 gill cream, 
seasoning. 



^ gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 
1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
lobster coral. 



134). 



oil. 

vinegar. 

truffles. 



Split the lobster dowTi the back, crack the claws, take out the meat. Put the 
best pieces of lobster on one side, chop the rest of the meat finely. Coat a border 
mould with aspic jelly, sprinkle it all over with chopped truffle and lobster coral ; 
set these in with a few drops of aspic jelly sprinkled over. Melt the gelatine in the 
tomato sauce, add the chopped lobster to it. Whip the cream slightly, mix in the 
mayonnaise and a gill of liquid aspic jelly, stir into this the chopped lobster, and 
season to taste with salt and cayenne. HaK fill the decorated border mould with 
this mixture, then place a layer of the reserved pieces of lobster round the mould, 
cover with the mixture, and fill up to the top ; put on ice to set. Wash the lettuce, 
drain, and tear it into small pieces, put it in a basin, season with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar. When the turban is set, turn it out on to a round dish, and fill the 
centre with the prepared salad. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable April to October. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



V. 



CHAPTER VII 

ENTREES (HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 

AGNEAU (LAMB) 

742. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU AU CONCOMBRE (LAMB CUTLETS WITH 

CUCUMBER.) 

8 lamb cutlets. | 1 large cucumber. | 3 ozs. butter. | seasoning. | chopped parsley. 

Trim the cutlets, melt 2 ozs. of butter in a frying-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry 
them quickly in order to brown them. Peel the cucumber, cut it into inch-lengths ; 
then each piece into quarters, then each quarter into dice. Put the pieces of 
cucumber into a saucepan of boiling water, add some salt, and simmer until nearly 
cooked. Drain the cucumber, put the dice into a saucepan with 1 oz. of melted 
butter, and toss over the fire until quite tender. Season to taste, and stir in some 
finely chopped parsley. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, arrange the 
cucumber in the centre, and serve with a suitable sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

743. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU AU BEURRE NOIR (LAMB CUTLETS WITH 

BLACK BUTTER). 

8 Iamb cutlets. | 3 ozs. butter. | J teaspoonful chopped parsley. | pepper. | meat-glaze, i salt. 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of lamb, trim them neatly, and scrape 
the end of each bone quite clean. Put 1 oz. of butter in a frying-pan. As soon as 
it is hot, put in the cutlets, and fry quickly over a brisk fire. When cooked, brush 
them over with meat-glaze, and dish up on a hot dish. Put the remainder of the 
butter (2 ozs.) into a small pan, heat it over the fire until a nut-bro\vn colour ; then 
add the parsley to it, and pour it over the cutlets. Put a frill on each cutlet, and 
serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

744. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU AUX FINES HERBES (CUTLETS OF LAMB WITH 

FINE HERBS). 



6 lamb cutlets. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 tablespoonful white wine. 
1 tablespoonful meat-glaze. 



lemon-juice, 
salt and pepper. 



J teaspoonful parsley, chervil, 
and tarragon. 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of lamb, trim neatly, season with 
salt and pepper, and fry them quickly over a brisk fire in 1| ozs. of butter. When 
done, strain off the butter, and add the wine and glaze, the chopped herbs, a little 
lemon-juice, and | oz. of butter. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pour 
over the sauce, and serve. 

Average cost, Is 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

PT. m. 175 12 



176 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



8 lamb cutlets, 
breadcrumbs. 
\ an orange. 



pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. 

mashed potato. 



egg- 
lemon, 
salt. 



745. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA MALTAISE (LAMB CUTLETS, MALTESE 

STYLE). 

\ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 glass white ynne. 
a green vegetable. 

Trim the cutlets nicely, take away the greater part of the fat, dip them in beaten 
egg, and then into breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and clarify it 
(No. 199) ; then put in the cutlets, and fry them a golden browTi on both sides. 
Prepare the Bechamel sauce, add to it the wine, the orange-juice, and a squeeze of 
lemon ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut the orange-rind in very fine 
strips, and add to the sauce. Let all simmer together for ten to fifteen minutes, in 
order to blend the flavours. If too thick, add a little milk or stock until it is of 
the right consistency. Make a circular border of mashed potato on a hot dish, 
dress the cutlets on it overlapping each other, put a frill on the end of each bone, 
arrange a green vegetable — i.e., peas, beans, or spinach — in the centre, and pour 
some of the sauce round the base of the dish. Serve the rest of the sauce 
separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



t8 lamb cutlets 
2 ozs. butter, 
cooked peas. 



1 tablespoonful cream, 
mashed potato, 
foie-gras. 



746. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA MASSENA (CUTLETS OF LAMB, MASSENA 

STYLE). 

J lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). 
8 fried croutes of bread. 
Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

Fry the cutlets in the butter on one side only for one minute ; let them cool. 
Cut the croutes the same size as the cutlets. Cut out the middle of the bread with 
an oval cutter, fry them a golden brown in hot butter, place one of these croutes 
on each cutlet on the cooked side, fill the centre with foie-gras. Mix the cream 
with the chicken forcemeat. Put this into a forcing-bag with a piping-tube attached, 
garnish all round the edge of the croute with this, place on a buttered baking-sheet, 
and put in a slow oven for seven or eight minutes. Make a circular border of 
mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the cutlets round this, put a cutlet frill on each 
bone, arrange the cooked peas in the centre of the dish, pour some of the sauce 
round, and send the remainder to table separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

747. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA SAINTE-M£NEH0ULD (CUTLETS OF 

LAMB, SAINTE-MENEHOULD STYLE). 

2 breasts of lamb. I 2 large carrots. egg and breadcrumbs. I 12 peppercorns. stock, 
small piece mace. | 2 large onions. ItaUan sauce (No. 41). | 1 bay-leaf. butter. 

Place enough stock in a saucepan to cover the breasts of lamb. Let it come to 
the boil. Clean the vegetables, cut them into thick slices, and add to the stock 
when boihng ; also the spice and breasts of lamb. Let all this stew very gently for 
about thirty minutes. Take up the breasts, remove all the bones, and then press 
between two tins until quite cold ; then cut into cutlet shapes, dip each into beaten 
egg, and then into breadcrumbs. Melt some butter, pour it on to a plate, and 
brush each cutlet over with it ; then dip again into the breadcrumbs. Have ready 
some very hot fat ; fry the cutlets in it until a golden-brown colour. Dish up in a 
circle, and serve with Italian sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable December t** 
August. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



177 



748. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA NAVARRAISE. 



8 lamb cutlets. 
3 ozs. ham. 
8 muskrooms. 



J oz. grated Parmesan 

cheese. 
4 tomatoes. 



butter. 

salt. 

pepper. 



^ oz. red capsicums. 
Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Trim the cutlets, take away most of the fat, flatten shghtly with a cutlet-bat, 
scrape the bone at the end of each cutlet clean. Mince the ham finely, peel the 
mushrooms, chop and cook them in butter. Mix with the ham in a stewpan. To 
these add the chopped capsicums, salt, and pepper. Bind with the Bechamel sauce 
well reduced. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry on 
one side only. Take them up, drain, and cover the cooked side with the above 
preparation. Put the cutlets on a buttered tin, sprinkle with grated cheese and a 
little melted butter. Place them in the oven to finish the cooking and to form 
the gratin. Cut the tomatoes in halves, season them with salt and pepper, 
and toss them in butter. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, put a frill 
on each bone, arrange the tomatoes in the centre, and pour some tomato sauce 
round. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



749. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU FARCIES A LA PERIGUEUX. 



8 lamb cutlets. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). cooked peas, 

butter. Perigueux sauce (No. 62). salt and pepper. 

Trim the cutlets, take away most of the fat, flatten slightly, scrape the 
l)one at the end quite clean, season them with salt and pepper, and cook them 
in butter on one side only. On the cooked side put a tablespoonful of chicken 
■forcemeat, shaping it into a dome shape. Put the cutlets on a buttered tin, 
place them in a cool oven to cook the forcemeat and to finish cooking the cutlets. 
They will take about eight or ten minutes to cook in the oven. Dish them in 
a, circle on a hot dish, arrange some cooked peas in the centre, and pour the 
Perigeux sauce rouund. The dish is now ready to serve, and should be sent to 
table very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable in the summer, 
when peas are in season, or from December to August if another vegetable is used. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



750. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA PRINCESSE (LAMB CUTLETS, 

PRINCESS STYLE). 



12 lamb cutlets. 


2 truffles. 


1 pint Allemande sauce 


butter. 


a few mushrooms. 


cooked peas. 


(No. 1). 


1 egg- 


i gill white wine. 


breadcrumbs. 


supreme sauce (No. 74). 


seasoning 



Trim the cutlets, removing the fat and gristle, fry them in butter, put them 
between two baking-sheets, place some weights on the top, and press till cold. 
Chop the mushrooms and truffles, melt a little butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped 
ingredients, and cook a little ; then add the wine, and reduce until nearly dry. Stir 
in the Allemande sauce, boil, and reduce until the sauce is very thick. Turn it out 
of the stewpan, and dip each cutlet into it. Place them on a baking-sheet, and put 
them aside to get cold and set. When the sauce is quite set and firm, dip the cutlet ? 
into egg, and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified butter a golden 
colour. Dish up in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with cooked peas or asparagus 
points, pour the sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

12—2 



178 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



751. SAUTE D'AGNEAU A LA PRINT ANIER. 



2 lbs. breast of lamb. 
4 ozs. butter. 
8 button onions. 



8 new carrots. 
2 turnips. 

salt. 



1 gill French beans. 

^ pint demi-glaze sauce (No. 29). 

4 tablespoonfuls meat-glaze. 



8 new potatoes. 
1 gill cooked peas, 
pepper. 

Cut the breast of lamb into nice pieces. Melt 3 ozs. of butter in a large stewpan, 
put in the pieces of meat, and cook them in it until done. Cut the carrots and 
turnips to the shape of large ohves ; parboil the carrots, turnips, and potatoes, 
drain and toss them in butter until cooked. Have the peas and beans ready cooked 
also. Mix all these vegetables together. As soon as the lamb is ready, take it 
up, and place on a dish. Put the sauce and meat-glaze into the saucepan, heat it ; 
then put in the meat and the vegetables, shake the saucepan so that all the in- 
gredients are well mixed in the sauce. When quite hot serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable February to 
August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

752. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU AU RISOTTO (LAMB CUTLETS WITH 

RISOTTO). 



8 lamb cutlets, 
risotto (No. 543). 



1 oz. grated cheese, 
breadcrumbs. 



\ pint Bechamel sauce eggs. 
(No. 4). butter. 

Reduce the sauce over the fire imtil it is very thick, then work into it 1 oz. of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Trim the cutlets neatly, melt some butter in a saute-pan, 
and fry the cutlets until they are half cooked. Dry them, and coat each side with 
the sauce. As soon as this is done, dip them in beaten egg, and then into fine bread- 
crumbs, into which a httle grated cheese has been mixed. Press the breadcrumbs 
on well with the blade of a knife. Make some butter very hot in a saute-pan, put 
in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides a golden brown. Have the risotto ready, 
arrange it on a dish in a layer of oval shape, dish the cutlets in a circle on the rice, 
the cutlets overlapping each other, place a cutlet frill on the bone of each. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable January to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

753. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA JARDINIERE (LAMB CUTLETS WITH 

SPRING VEGETABLES). 



12 lamb cutlets, 
meat-glaze. 



butter. spring vegetables. potatoes, 

salt. demi-glaze sauce (No. 29). pepper. 

Cut the lamb cutlets from a neck of lamb, trim neatly, and season them with 
pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a saute-pan. As soon as it is hot, put in the 
cutlets, and fry them quickly on both sides over a brisk fire. When the meat is 
cooked, glaze the cutlets with some melted meat-glaze. Mash the potatoes, mix a 
little butter with them, and arrange a border on a hot dish. Dress the cutlets on 
the border of potato in a circle, fill the centre with spring vegetables that have been 
cooked, and then tossed in a little butter. Pour the sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the spring. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

754. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA DUCHESSE (LAMB CUTLETS, 

DUCHESS STYLE). 



8 lamb cutlets. 
6 mushrooms. 
1 shallot. 



1 teaspoonful chopjDed 

parsley, 
supreme sauce (No. 74). 



pepper. 

1 whole egg. 

breadcrumbs. 



\h ozs. cooked ham. J lemon. 
2 yolks of eggs. salt, 

green vegetables. butter. 

Cut the cutlets from a neck of lamb, trim them nicely, and season with salt and 
pepper. Chop the mushrooms, ham, parsley, and shallot. Melt 1 oz. of butter in 
a 8te\vpan, put in the chopped shallot, and fry for a few minutes without browning ; 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 179 

then add the mushrooms, and cook a Httle longer. Stir in the ham and parsley, 
add a squeeze of lemon- juice, and sufficient white sauce to moisten. Stir over the 
fire until the mixture is quite thick, then add the two yolks of eggs. Let it bind, 
season to taste. Coat the cutlets with this preparation, and let them get cold ; 
then dip each in beaten egg, and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter 
until a light brown. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with 
a green vegetable — i.e., peas, beans, or spinach. Serve with a sauce tureen of 
Bupreme sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons, 

755. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA PARMA (LAMB CUTLETS WITH 

PARMESAN). 



breadcrumbs. 



mushrooms, 
butter. 



8 lamb cutlets. I grated Parmesan cheese. 

1 egg. I Parmesan sauce (No. 533). pepper and salt. 

Cut and trim the cutlets, season with salt and pepper. Mix breadcrumbs with 
grated cheese in the proportion of three parts of breadcrumbs to one of cheese ; dip 
the cutlets first in beaten egg, and then in the breadcrumbs and cheese. Melt some 
butter in a frjing-pan, and as soon as it is hot, put in the cutlets, and fry them^ 
carefully a golden brown on each side. When done, arrange them in a circle on a 
hot dish, fill the centre with the mushrooms stewed in butter, and pour the sauce 
round. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



i egg. 
1 shallot. 



756. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA VILLEROY. 

8 lamb cutlets. J salt and pepper. : Villeroy sauce (No. 84). I fried parsley. 

2 ozs. butter. I breadcrumbs. i J teaspoonful chopped parsley. ! 2 mushrooms. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a 
Baute-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry them brown on each side. Drain, and 
press until cold between two baking-sheets. As soon as cold, trim them again, and 
dip into the Villeroy sauce. Chop the mushrooms and shallot, mix them together 
with the chopped parsley, sprinkle a little of these herbs over the cutlets. Put 
them aside, and let the sauce set ; then egg and breadcrumb the cutlets, and fry 
in hot fat a golden colour. Dish them in a circle, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



757. BLANQUETTE D'AGNEAU (BLANQUETTE OF LAMB). 



1 shoulder of lamb. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 



3 yolks eggs. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 onion. i bouquet-garni. 
Bait and pepper. white stock. 2 cloves. I 1 gill cream. 

Bone the shoulder of lamb, cut the meat into square pieces 1 inch in size, put 
the pieces into lukewarm water, and leave for one hour. Drain, and put the meat 
into a stewpan, cover with water, and bring to the boil ; take up the meat, and 
wash it well in order to remove the scum. Heat some butter in a stewpan, put 
in the meat, and fry without browning ; then add the flour, pepper, and salt. Cook 
a few minutes. Then stir in some white stock, sufficient to cover the meat ; add the 
onion, cloves, and bouquet-garni. Put the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer , 
gently for three-quarters of an hour, or until the meat is tender. When done, take 
up the meat, dish it, and keep hot. Strain the Uquor the meat was cooked in 
into a clean saucepan ; beat the egg-yolks and cream together ; add to the sauce, 
and stir until it thickens, but care must be taken not to let it boil. Season to taste 



180 



THE ILEAL COOKERY BOOK 



with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice. Pour over the meat, sprinkle over a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 

758. EPIGRAMMES D'AGNEAU. 

These consist of boned breast of lamb, braised and pressed, cut in heart shapes, 
and lamb cutlets, allowing one piece of breast and one cutlet for each person. 
Epigrams should be dressed in a circle, cutlets and pieces of breast alternately. 

759. EPIGRAMMES D'AGNEAU A LA MACEDOINE (EPIGRAMMES 

OF LAMB WITH VEGETABLES). 

lamb cutlets. 2 breasts of lamb, I 1 pint stock. | vegetables. 1 carrot. 1 onion, 

breadcrumbs. salt and pepper. I bouquet garni. I 1 bay-leaf. 1 turnip. 1 egg. 

Cut each breast in half, blanch them, and put them into a saucepan with the 
vegetables ; cut up the bay-leaf and herbs ; add the stock, and cook gently until 
the meat is tender. Take up the breasts, bone them while hot, and place the meat 
on a tin, with another tin on the top ; put on some weights, and press until cold. 
When cold, cut the meat into heart-shaped pieces, removing all fat and gristle. 
Beat up an egg, dip the pieces into it, and toss in breadcrumbs. Prepare also the 
same number of lamb cutlets as there are pieces of breast. Fry these in hot butter 
or fat a golden colour. Drain and dress the pieces of breast and the cutlets alter- 
nately in a circle. Place some mixed vegetables (cooked peas, beans, carrots, 
turnips, etc., the latter cut in dice) in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

760. NOISETTES D'AGNEAU A LA MIREPOIX (NOISETTES OF 
LAMB, MIREPOIX STYLE). 



8 noisettes. 

1 gill carrots. 

1 gill mushrooms. 



2 shallots. 
^ gill cooked 
ham. 



3 ozs. butter. 

\ lb. cooked potato. 

egg and breadcrumbs. 



1 yolk of egg. 



\ oz. butter, 
seasoning. 



1 gill demi-glace sauce 

(No. 29). 
meat-glaze (No. 247). 

Cut the noisettes from a loin of lamb, and trim them nicely. Cut the carrots, 
mushrooms, and shallots into small dice, the carrots and mushrooms to measure a 
gill each when cut. Melt 1 ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in the vegetables, 
stew a little ; then add a little stock. Cook over the fire, stirring occasionally, 
until the vegetables are nearly done. Then add the ham, cut in dice. Cook ten 
minutes longer. Then add the sauce and glaze. Simmer a few minutes, then mix 
in by degrees 2 ounces of butter, stirring the sauce all the time with a wooden 
spoon. Pass the potato through a wire sieve. Melt | ounce of butter in a stewpan, 
stir in the potato, add the egg and seasoning ; mix well, turn the mixture on to a 
plate ; let cool. Then make it up into fiat cakes the same size as the noisettes, egg and 
crumb them, and fry in very hot fat. Place a noisette on each potato croquette, 
after they have been fried in butter, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

761. NOISETTES D'AGNEAU AUX FINES HERBES (NOISETTES OF 

LAMB WITH FINE HERBS). 
J lb. mushrooms 



6 noisettes. 

lemon-juice 

butter. 



1 teaspoonful bovril. 
salt and pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
6 artichoke bottoms (pre- 
served). 



\ teaspoonful chopped shallot. 
1 teaspoonful chopped chervil, 
a pinch of chopped tarragon. 

Cut six nice noisettes from a loin of lamb, trim them nicely, removing fat and 
gristle. Melt 1 ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and fry the noisettes over a brisk 
fire. Warm the artichoke bottoms in a little boiling stock or water, drain them, 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 181 

and place a noisette on each. Chop the mushrooms, fry them in butter, then add 
to them the bovril, the chopped parsley, shallot, chervil, and tarragon. Cook all 
together for a few minutes. Season wth pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Dish the 
noisettes on a hot dish, pour over them the herbs, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

762. NOISETTES D'AGNEAU A LA VALOIS (NOISETTES OF LAMB, 

VALOIS STYLE). 



2 lbs. loin of lamb. 



J lb. chicken forcemeat 



2 0Z3. butter. 



2 ozs. chopped tongue. 
4 chopped truffles. (No. 202). 4 chopped mushrooms. Valois sauce (No. 81). 

Bone the loin of lamb, and cut the fillet into slices about | inch thick ; trim 
them, and take away all fat and gristle. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; fry the 
noisettes on one side only, put them on to a tin, and press lightly imtil cold. Cook 
the mushrooms in the butter that the lamb was cooked in ; add to them an equal 
quantity of chopped truffles, and a little pepper and salt. Put a teaspoonful of 
this mixture on each noisette on the cooked side, cover with the chicken forcemeat, 
smooth over the surface with a wet knife, and sprinkle half the noisette with chopped 
tongue and the other half with chopped truffle. Butter a saute-pan or baking-tin, 
lay the noisettes in it, cover with paper, and cook in a cool oven for ten minutes. 
Dress them on a hot dish, and serve with Valois sauce. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



763. LANGUES D'AGNEAU A LA DUXELLE (LAMB'S TONGUE 

WITH DUXELLE SAUCE). 



^ 



3 lambs' tongues 
6 mushrooms. 



salt and pepper. 
Duxelle sauce (No. 30). 



2 shallots. 



1 oz. butter. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. ^ lemon. 2 egg-yolks. 

Put the tongues into a saucepan, cover them with water, add some salt and the 
juice of half a lemon ; put the pan on the fire, and cook imtil the tongues are tender — 
about two hours. When done enough, drain, skin, and cut each tongue in halves. 
Chop the shallots and mushrooms. Melt 1 ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in 
the shallots, and fry them for a minute or two ; then add the mushrooms, and cook 
a little longer. Stir in the parsley and the breadcrumbs, mix in the two egg-yolks, 
and cook without boiling. Season with pepper and salt. Spread this mixture on 
the six halves of tongue. Dish them on a hot dish, and pour Duxelle sauce over. 
Sprinkle them with brown breadcrumbs, put a few bits of butter on them, and bake 
in the oven for about ten minutes. Serve hot. 

Average cost uncertain. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable December to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

MOUTON (MUTTON) 

764. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA BRETONNE. 



1^ ozs. butter. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



6 mutton cutlets. brown sauce. 

^ pint haricot beans. 2 onions. 

Trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, and fry in butter. Soak 
the haricots in water for several hours, then boil them in a stewpan imtil tender. 
Drain, and pass them through a sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the 
sieved beans, add to them the onions, previously boiled and sieved, season, and stir 
over the fire until hot. Then add the Bechamel sauce. Dish the cutlets in a circle 
on a hot dish, and put the puree of beans and onions in the centre. Pour some 
brown sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes after the beans are cooked. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



182 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



765. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA MILANAISE (MUTTON CUTLETS, 

MILAN STYLE). 



8 mutton cutlets. 
2 ozs. macaroni. 



breadcrumbs. 
1 oz. tongue. 



1 gill white sauce (No. 74). 
1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 



1 egg- 
butter. 



1 truffle, 
seasoning. 



Trim the cutlets ; beat the egg on a plate, brush over the cutlets with it, and 
toss in breadcrumbs. Fry them a golden colour. Dish them on a border of mashed 
potato in a circle. Boil the macaroni until tender ; cut it up in strips about 1 inch 
long. Cut up the tongue and truffles into strips. Put these with the macaroni 
into a saucepan, add the white sauce, season with pepper and salt ; make hot, and 
place this garnish in the centre of the cutlets. Pour the tomato sauce round, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 29. — Cotelbttbs db Mouton a la Princierb. 



766. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA PRINCI£RE. 



8 mutton cutlets. 

2 pairs lambs' sweetbreads. 

2 preserved mushrooms. 



2 ozs. ham. 

butter. 

1 yolk of egg. 



breadcrumbs. 

seasoning. 

\ pint supreme sauce (No. 74). 



Trim the cutlets neatly, season, and fry them on a bright fire, but see that they ^ 
are underdone. Blanch and braise the sweetbreads. When cooked, mince them ' 
very finely ; also the cooked ham and mushrooms. Put these ingredients into a 
saucepan, season to taste, bind with the yolk and enough sauce to moisten ; turn 
the mixture out on to a plate to cool. When the cutlets are cooked, press 
them lightly between two tins until cold. Spread the cutlets on one side 
with the prepared mixture, smooth over with a wet knife, and sauce over 
each carefully with cold supreme sauce. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs, place a 
few bits of butter on each, and place on a greased tin in a hot oven for five o' six 
minutes. Pour the remainder of the sauce on a hot dish, dress the cutlets on this, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time to prepare, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



183 



767. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA PROVENCALE (MUTTON CUTLETS, 

PROVENCAL STYLE)! 



8 mutton cutlets. 
3 large onions. 
Parmesan cheese. 



chopped parsley. 
2 gills Bechamel sauce 
(No. 4). 



brown breadcrumbs. 3 egg-yolks, 

tomato sauce (No. 77) or brown butter, 

sauce (No. 6). seasoning. 

Trim the cutlets, fry them in butter on one side only, then press them lightly 
until cold. Slice the onions very finely. Put some butter into a saucepan, add the 
onions, and cook over a moderate fire without bro%vning. When the onions are 
cooked, add the Bechamel sauce, and bind with the egg-yolks. Season mth salt, 
pepper, and parsley, and let the mixture get cold. Trim the cutlets again, and 
cover the cooked side of the cutlets with the prepared mixture. Smooth the surface 
with a knife. Lay them on a buttered baking-sheet ; sprinkle over some grated 
Parmesan cheese and a few brown crumbs ; put a few drops of melted butter on each. 
Place in a brisk oven for five or six minutes. Serve with tomato or brown sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

768. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA REFORME (MUTTON CUTLETS, 

REFORM STYLE). 



best end of a neck of mutton. 
2 ozs. lean ham. 
1 egg- 



breadcrumbs. 
2 trufae^. 
4 (.herkins. 



ox-tongue, 
seasoning, 
butter. 



2 hard-boiled whites of 

eggs, 
reform sauce (No. 67). 



Take the neck of mutton, saw off the chine-bone at the back of the cutlets ; 
chop the rib-bones, leaving the bones which form the cutlets about 3 inches long. 
Cut off the cutlets ; trim them neatly. Chop the ham finely, mix it with the bread- 
crumbs, also pepper and salt. Beat the egg on a plate, dip the cutlets into it, and 
then toss in the breadcrumbs. Fry them a nice golden brown in butter. Dish 
in a circle on a hot dish, and keep hot. Cut the truffles, gherkins, hard-boiled whites, 
and ox-tongue, in strips. Warm them in a little of the sauce, thinned down, or in 
some gravy. Place this garnish in the centre of the cutlets, and pour the sauce round. 

Average cost, 3s, Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

769. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA SOUBISE (MUTTON CUTLETS, 

WITH ONION PUREE). 



best end of a neck of mutton. 
Boubise sauce (No. 75). 



i pint demi -glace sauce 
(No. 29). 



legg. 
seasoning. 



2 ozs. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 

Cut the mutton into cutlets, trim them neatly, dip each one in beaten egg, and 
then in breadcrumbs. Fry them a golden brown in the butter. Dish in a circle 
on a border of mashed potato. Put the onion puree in the centre, and pour the 
sauce round. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

770. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A L'INDIENNE (MUTTON CUTLETS 

INDIAN STYLE). 



8 mutton cutlets. 
1 egg. 



breadcrumbs, 
boiled rice. 



i pint curry sauce I butter, 
(^bfo. 23). ^ seasoning. 



Trim the cutlets ; season the breadcrumbs with a little pepper and salt ; beat 
up the egg, dip the cutlets in it, and then toss in the br«? 'Icrumbs. Fry them in 
butter a golden bro^vn. Dish them on a circular border of mashed potato, pour the 
sauce roimd, and put some nicely boiled rice in the centre. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



184 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



771. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA POMPADOUR (MUTTON 
CUTLETS, POMPADOUR STYLE). 



8 cutlets, 
foie-gras. 



seasoning, 
legg. 



J pint macedoine vegetables. 
Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 



breadcrumbs, 
butter. 



Trim the cutlets, make a horizontal incision in the meaty part of each cutlet, 
place in each incision thus formed a sHce of foie-gras ; season the cutlets, egg and 
breadcrumb them, and fry in clarified butter a golden brown. Dress the cutlets 
in a circle, put the macedoine of vegetables in the centre, and serve the sauce 
separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 perons. 

772. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA VENETIENNE (MUTTON 
CUTLETS, VENETIAN STYLE). 



t/ * 



6 mutton cutlets. 

4 ozs. quenelle meat (No. 201). 



i pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
\ pint cooked peas. 



2 ozs. chopped ham. 
J lb. mushrooms (fresh). 

Trim the cutlets, fry them in butter, leaving them underdone. Chop the ham 
very finely, also the mushrooms. Cook these in butter over the fire until the 
moisture has evaporated. As soon as the cutlets are cold, cover one side of each 
with a layer of quenelle meat, and then dip three of the cutlets in the chopped ham, 
and the other three in the mushrooms. Put the brown sauce in a saute-pan, lay 
the cutlets carefully in it, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly over the 
fire for ten to fifteen minutes. Dress the cutlets on a border of mashed potato, 
alternating the colours, first one with ham, next with mushrooms, and so on. 
Arrange the peas in the centre, and pour the sauce round. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



773. COTELETTES DE MOUTON 



2 lbs. best neck of mutton. 

3 ozs. breadcrumbs. 

1 small tablespoonful shallot. 



A LA RUSSE (RUSSIAN CUTLETS). 

2 eggs. 



seasonmg. 
4 ozs. butter. 



1 large tablespoonful of horse- 
radish, 
demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 

Trim and shape the cutlets nicely. Melt 2 ounces of butter, brush the cutlets 
over with this, and put them aside to cool. Grate the horseradish, and chop the 
shallot finely. Put the breadcrumbs into a basin, add to them the chopped shallot, 
grated horseradish, pepper, and salt. Brush the cutlets over with the yolk of an 
egg. Mix the rest of the eggs, well beaten, with the dry ingredients ; make this 
into a paste ; lay it evenly all over the cutlets. Melt the remaining 2 ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, lay the cutlets in it, and fry carefully for about fifteen 
minutes. Dish up on a border of mashed potato, place a suitable vegetable in the 
centre, and pour the sauce round. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



774. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA COMTESSE. 



8 mutton cutlets. 
4 mushrooms. 
2 shallots. 
2 ozs. lean ham. 

Trim the cutlets 



1 oz. meat-glaze, 
mixed vegetables, 
lemon- juice. 
1 oz. flour. 



\ pint stock. 

1 whole egg. 
breadcrumbs. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
^ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
pepper and salt. 

2 raw yolks of eggs. 

Melt 2 omices of butter in a stewpan, put in the cutlets, and 
fry them on both sides. When cooked, take them up, and press under a light 
weight until cold. Chop the mushrooms, shallots, and ham finely, put these into 
the butter that the cutlets were fried in ; cook a httle, then add the flour, chopped 
parsley, pepper, and salt. Dilute with the stock, stir until it boils, then add the 
glaze. Boil this sauce for about fifteen minutes, until it has reduced to a right 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



185 



consistency. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, and bind over the fire. Season with 
lemon- juice. Cover each cutlet with this sauce, smooth with a knife, place them 
>. on a dish to get cold and set. When the cutlets are ready, egg and breadcrumb 
them, and fry them a light brown. Dish the cutlets in a circle, on a border of 
mashed potato. Place a frill on each cutlet-bone. Arrange the vegetables in the 
centre, and pour some of the sauce round. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 to 8 persons. 



( 



775. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA MAINTENON (MUTTON 
CUTLETS, MAINTENON STYLE). 

6 mutton cutlets. 1 tablespoonful parsley. 2 ozs. streaky bacon. a few breadcrumbs. 

6 mushrooms. Italian sauce (No. 41). 1 oz. butter. 2 shallots. 

Trim the cutlets. Chop the mushrooms, shallots, and parsley. Cut the bacon 
into small dice. Melt the butter, add to it the bacon, shallots, mushrooms, and 
parsley. Arrange the cutlets on the herbs, and let them cook a short time, without 




Fig. 30. — Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon. 



allowdng them to be quite done. Then take up and let them cool. INIix a few 
breadcrumbs wdth the herbs and bacon, enough to bind the mixture ; spread some 
of this over each cutlet, fold each up in a buttered paper, and broil over a slow fke ; 
or place them on a buttered baking-sheet, with a piece of greased paper over, and 
put them in the oven to finish cooking. Dish the cutlets on a circular border of 
mashed potato, fill the centre with a suitable vegetable, and pour the sauce round 
the base of the dish. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

776. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA NELSON (MUTTON CUTLETS, 

NELSON STYLE). 



8 mutton cutlets. 

I lb. chicken forcemeat. 

3 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 



1 oz. butter. 
I oz. flour. 
i gill milk. 



2 eggs. 

cayenne. 

salt. 



I pint demi -glace sauce 

(No. 29). 
asparagus heads or peas. 



Skin the cutlets, season, and grill them until half done ; press imtil cold. Then 
cover one side of each with the chicken forcemeat, smooth with a wet knife, place 
on a buttered baking-sheet, cover with a greased paper, and cook in the oven for 



186 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

five minutes. In the meantime prepare a souffle mixture. Melt 1 ounce of butter 
in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil quickly until the sauce is 
thick and leaves the bottom and sides of the saucepan. Take the pan off the fire, 
and let the mixture cool a minute. Then beat in the yolks of the eggs, one at a 
time, stir in the cheese, a pinch of salt and cayenne. Beat the two whites of eggs 
very stiffly, and fold them into the mixture ; stir quickly and lightly. Spread this 
preparation over the coated side of the cutlets, place them on a buttered baking- 
«heet, and put it in the oven for five minutes to cook and brown the souffle. When 
sufficiently cooked, dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, garnish the centre 
with asparagus heads or peas tossed in butter, and pour the sauce roimd the dish. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the summer 
months. Sufficient for 4 to 8 persons. 



8 mutton cutlets. 
2 shallots, 
juice of 1 lemon, 
breadcrumbs. 



777. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA SUEDOISE. 

^ wineglassful white wine. 
2 tablespoonfuls grated horse- 
radish. 
\ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



salt, 
butter. 
1 egg. 
pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoonful oil. 
a pinch of savoury her"bs. 
\ lb. apples. 

Trim the cutlets, put them on a plate, season them with pepper and salt. Chop 
the shallots, sprinkle them over the cutlets ; also the chopped parsley and the 
savoury herbs ; add the oil and lemon- juice. Leave the cutlets in this marinade 
for thirty minutes ; turn them over occasionally during that time. After this has 
been done, dry the cutlets on a cloth, beat up an egg on a plate, dip the cutlets 
into it ; toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified butter a golden brown. Keep 
the cutlets hot until ready to dish up. Peel and slice the apples, take out the cores. 
Put them into a saucepan, add the wine and a little water, stew until they form a 
puree ; then add to it the horseradish, grated and then finely chopped. Mix well. 
Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, arrange the garnish in the centre, sprinkle 
over a little chopped parsley, and serve with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

778. NOISETTES DE MOUTON A LA SOUVAROFF. 

truffle. 



IJ lbs. best end of neck 
of mutton. 



seasonmg. 



Bearnaise sauce 
(No. 7). 



juUenne potatoes, 
butter. 



Bone the neck of mutton, trim away the fat, and cut the meat into ffllets, about 
\ inch thick ; bat them out, season, and fry them in butter over a quick fire. 
Cover each noisette with Bearnaise sauce, put on each a sUce of truffle. Dish up, 
and garnish round the noisettes with julienne potatoes. Serve with brown or 
demi-glaze sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



8 mutton cutlets. I pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. I 12 button onions. 



\ pint stock. 

salt. 



779. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA BONNE FEMME (MUTTON 
CUTLETS, HOUSEWIFE'S STYLE). 

2 potatoes. 

1 teaspoonful bovril. 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, trim them nicely, re- 
moving the greater part of the fat ; pare the end of each bone quite clean. Season 
the cutlets with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets, 
and fry them a light brown ; then add the onions, and fry these brown. Pour off 
the butter and add the stock. Wash and peel the potatoes, scoop them out with 
a vegetable-scoop into round balls ; put these in with the meat, cover with the lid 
of the pan, and finish the cooking in the oven for about thirty minutes. When 
the meat is cooked, dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, and put the onions 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



187 



and potatoes in the centre. Remove the fat from the gravy, add a Httle bovril to 
it, and pour it over the cutlets. Put a frill on each cutlet-bone, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



780. NOISETTES DE MOUTON AUX TOMATES. 



1 lb. best end of neck of mutton. 
Madeira sauce (No. 50). 



3 or 4 tomatoes, 
fried croutes. 



3 ozs. mushrooms. 
2 ozs. butter. 



seasoning, 
parsley. 



Bone the neck of mutton, trim away the fat and gristle, and out the meat into 
fillets about h inch thick ; bat them out, season, and fry them in butter over a 
brisk fire. Set each noisette on a croute of fried bread. Cut the tomatoes in slices, 
and fry in butter, taking care not to let the slices go to pieces. Chop the mush- 
rooms, and saute also in a little butter. When ready to serve, place a slice of 
tomato on each noisette, and on that a little heap of cooked mushroom. Sprinkle 
on the top of each a little chopped parsley, pour some sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 




Fig. 31. — Noisettes de Mouton aux Tomates. 



781. NOISETTES DE MOUTON A LA CHORON. 

butter. 



1 J lbs. neck of mutton. 

8 artichoke bottoms (small). 



cooked peas. 

sauce Bearnaise, rouge (No. 9). 



seasoning. 

Bone the mutton, and cut the meat into fillets, ^ inch thick ; trim, season, and 
fry them quickly in butter. Toss the artichoke bottoms in butter until hot. Fill 
them with the cooked peas. Place one of these on each noisette. Dish the noisettes 
on a hot dish, and put the red Bearnaise sauce in the centre. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



782. NOISETTES DE MOUTON MONTGOMERY. 



1^ lbs. best end of neck 
of mutton. 



3 lbs. spinach. 
2 yolks of eggs. 



1 truffle, 
seasoning. 



1 gill soubise sauce (No. 75). 2 ozs. butter. 
juHenne potatoes or peas. ^ gill cream. ' 

Bone the mutton, trim away the fat, and cut the meat into slices about h inch 
thick. Bat them out with a cutlet-bat, season with pepper and salt, and fry them 
in a frying-pan, with 1 oz. of butter, over a quick fire. Cook the spinach, drain. 



188 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

■and pass it through a fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the 
spinach, stir it over the fire until hot ; then add the cream and the yolks of the eggs, 
-season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter an oval timbale mould, turn the 
spinach into it, press well down, and place on a baking-tin containing water, and 
put it in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Turn the spinach shape on to a hot 
,dish. Dress the noisettes on the top in a circle overlapping each other. In the 
.centre of the noisettes arrange the julienne potatoes. Reduce some soubise sauce 
until very thick, put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and make a rosette on 
•each noisette. On each rosette put a small slice of truffle. Surround the base of 
the shape mth tomato sauce, and serve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
jcient for 6 persons. 



783. NOISETTES A LA SEVIGNE. 



2 lbs. best end of neck 

of mutton. 
S artichoke bottoms. 



tomato sauce (No. 

77). 
breadcrumbs. 



3 ozs. butter. 

8 large mushrooms. 

8 fried croutes. 



1 yolk of egg. 
seasoning. 
1 egg. 



Bone the mutton, trim away the fat, and cut the meat into slices about | inch 
thick ; bat them out with a cutlet-bat or large knife. Season each fillet with 
salt and pepper. Fry them in 1 oz. of butter on one side only. Chop the mush- 
rooms and artichokes. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped 
vegetables, and saute them. Mix in sufficient breadcrumbs to make a nice con- 
sistency, add the yolk and seasoning. Cook a little over the fire, turn on to a plate, 
and divide into eight portions. Cover the fried side of each noisette with this 
mixture, shape it to a dome shape. Beat up an egg, brush over the shapes with it, 
then sprinkle with breadcrumbs and melted butter. Place in the oven to finish 
cooking and to brown. Stand each noisette on a fried croute of bread the same 
size. Dish in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and fill the centre with a 
suitable vegetable. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



ROGNONS (KIDNEYS) 

784. ROGNONS A LA FRANCAISE (SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, 

FRENCH STYLE). 



/€ sheep's kidneys. 

2 ozs. butter, 
^alt. 

2 shallots. 



fried bread croutes. 
2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley. 
J teaspoonful chopped thyme. 
1 dessertspoonful flour. 



1 glass port wine. 
1 gill good stock. 
cayenne. 
^ lemon. 



'Skin the kidneys, remove the fat, sUce them thinly. Melt the butter in a saute- 
^an, and when very hot put in the sliced kidneys ; sprinkle over the herbs, the 
chopped shallots, salt, and a pinch of cayenne ; fry the kidneys quickly on both 
sides. When the kidneys are cooked, take them out of the pan, and dish them on 
a hot dish. Strain off some of the fat in the pan, add the wine, and reduce a httle ; 
then add the flour, stir in the stock, and bring to the boil ; simmer for a few minutes, 
^season to taste, add lemon-juice, then pour it over the kidneys. Surroimd the dish 
with fried bread croutons, which should be cut in the shape of small triangles. 
Serve the kidneys very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
rioT 3 persons. 

N.B. — Kidneys should always be cooked very quickly ; if not, they become 

rhard. 




sc 

fe 



E 
o 

DO 

-4—' 

C 

o 



rf 



-«5 

C 

o 

4— » 

O 



"5 
2 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



189 



785. ROGNONS A LA CONNAUGHT. 



4 kidneys. 
1 shallot. 



2 or 3 tomatoes, 
mashed potato. 



1^ ozs. butter. 
8 mushrooms. 



seasoning, j ^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
meat-glaze. | | gill white wine. 



Chop the shallot, melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, and fry it 
a Uttle without browning. Cut the kidneys in halves, skin them, and take out the 
muscle ; put the kidneys into the pan with the onions, cut side dowTi, fry quickly, 
add the wine, and simmer gently for ten minutes, but do not boil quickly, or they 
will harden. Take out the kidneys, and keep hot ; put the sauce into the saute- 
pan with the wine, boil up and skim ; brush the kidneys over with meat-glaze. Make 
a circular border of mashed potato on a hot dish. Have ready cooked the mush- 
rooms and eight slices of tomato. Dish the kidneys on the border of potato alter- 
nately with the mushrooms and tomato slices — first, a kidney, then a mushroom, 
then a slice of tomato, and so on, until the circle is complete. Strain the sauce 
round the outside of the border, and serve. 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 




( 



Fig. 82. — Roonons i la Connadght. 



786. ROGNONS SAUTE AU CHAMPAGNE (KIDNEYS SAUTED 

WITH CHAMPAGNE). 



■6 sheep's kidneys. 
2 shallots. 
2 ozs. butter. 



IJ gills demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
J gill champagne or white wine, 
seasoning. 



8 preserved mushrooms, 
croutons of fried bread, 
parsley. 

Skin the kidneys, cut each in half, and remove the hard centre ; slice each half 
into three or four thin slices, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Chop the shallots 
finely, and the mushrooms. Melt the butter, put in the shallots, and fry them a 
■light brown ; then add the kidneys, and cook over a brisk fire for five or six minutes. 
Add the wine, cover the pan, and let cook a few minutes. Stir in the sauce and the 
mushrooms ; let all get hot, but do not boil, or the kidneys will harden. Dish up on 
■a. hot dish ; place a border of croutons of fried bread, cut in three-cornered pieces, 
round the dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
tcient for 3 persons. 



\ 



190 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



6 kidneys. 
2 ozs. butter. 



^ pint demi -glace sauce (No. 29) 
fried croutes. 



787. ROGNONS SUR CROCTES. 

1 dessertspoonful chopped bacon, 
parsley. salt. 

Skin the kidneys, cut them through without quite dividing them, take out the 
hard part. Melt the butter in a stewpan, fry the kidneys quickly, then add the 
parsley and the sauce ; let all cook together gently for five minutes, but do not let 
the sauce boil. The croutes of bread should be round, and fried a golden colour ; 
dish the kidneys on these, and keep hot. Reduce the sauce, strain it, and pour 
over the kidneys. Garnish the dish with nice pieces of fried bacon. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



788. ROGNONS A L'EPICURE. 



3 sheep's kidneys. 

salt and pepper. 

^ pint Madeira sauce (No. 



i gill stock. 



1 truffle. 

\ small onion. 



2 or 3 mushrooms. 



^ lb. veal. 

1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 

50). 1 egg. 2 ozs. butter. 

Mince the veal finely. Melt the 1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the 
flour, add the stock, and boil until very thick. Put this panada into a mortar with 
the minced veal ; pound well together, then add the egg, pepper, and salt ; pound 
again, until all is thoroughly mixed, then rub through a wire sieve. Butter eight 
small dariole moulds, and line them with this forcemeat. Skin the kidneys, cut each 
in half, and take out the hard part. Chop the onion and mushrooms, melt 2 ozs. 
of butter in a saute-pan, put in the onion and mushroom^s, place the kidneys on the 
top, and cook quickly until done, season them with pepper and salt. Place half a 
kidney in each of the lined dariole moulds, cover the top. with some of the forcemeat ; 
smooth with a knife, making it quite level. Place the moulds in a steamer, cover 
with a buttered paper, and steam slowiy for fifteen minutes. When done, turn out 
on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and decorate each with a sHce of truffle, cut 
out with a star-cutter. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

789. QUENELLES DE ROGNONS AU RISOTTO (QUENELLES OF KIDNEYS 

WITH RISOTTO). 



3 kidneys. 
1 shallot. 
6 ozs. rice. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1^ pints stock. 
J glass sherry. 



3 or 4 mushrooms. 



gill tomato puree, 
gill brown sauce. 



salt. 
pepper. 
1 onion. 



J lb. veal forcemeat. 
1 oz. Parmesan cheese, 
tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Skin the kidneys, cut each one in fine slices ; chop the mushrooms and shallot. 
Fry these all together in 1 oz. of butter quickly for a few minutes, then add the wine 
and the browoi sauce, season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Prepare the veal 
forcemeat as in previous recipe. Butter eight small quenelle moulds, line them with 
the forcemeat, fill the centres with the stew-ed kidney, cover them with more of the 
forcemeat, level with a knife ; place them in a baking-tin with a little boiling water, 
cover with a buttered paper, and steam in the oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. 
Prepare the risotto : Peel and chop the onion, melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the onion, and fry a little without browning too much ; then stir in the raw 
rice, and fry it a light brown. Add the stock, and boil until the rice is tender and 
has absorbed the stock ; if necessary, add more stock. When the rice is cooked, stir in 
the I gill of tomato puree and the cheese ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Press 
this mixture into a border mould, and keep hot until required. When ready to serve, 
turn out the risotto on to a hot dish, dress the quenelles in the centre of the border, 
pour a little of the tomato sauce over the quenelles, and some more round the base of 
the border. Sprinkle over the quenelles a little chopped truffle or parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 191 

790. ROGNONS DE MOUTON GRILLES (GRILLED MUTTON KIDNEYS). 

6 kidneys. ( cayenne. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). | melted butter. | salt. 

Split the kidneys, but do not divide them quite ; take off the skin and fat ; run 
a skewer through the back of the kidneys to keep them flat ; season them with 
salt and a pinch of cayenne ; pour a little melted butter over each, grill over a clear 
and brisk fire, cut side down first, then turn them in four or five minutes, and grill 
the other side about the same time. Dish them, place a pat of maitre-d'hotol 
butter on each, and serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

791. ROGNONS SAUTES AU MADERE (KIDNEYS SAUTED, MADEIRA SAUCE). 

6 kidneys. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1^ gills Madeira sauce (No. 50). | seasoning. 

Skin the kidneys, and cut each in half lengthways ; take away the muscle part, 
and slice each haK-kidney into three or four slices. Heat the butter in a frjdng-pan, 
and as soon as it is very hot put in the kidneys, season them, and cook quickly until 
done ; then drain, and put them on a hot dish. Heat up the sauce, pour this over 
the kidneys, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

792. TURBAN DE ROGNONS A LA PARMENTIER (BORDER WITH KIDNEYS 

AND POTATO). 
4 sheep's kidneys. 2 ozs. butter. 6 preserved mushrooms. I 2 shallots. 1 1 lb. potato (cooked). 



2 or 3 tomatoes. 



2 yolks of eggs. 



demi-glaze sauce (No. 29). i seasoning. I brown breadcrumbs. 

Pass the potato through a sieve ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a ste\\'pan, stir the 
potato into it, season with pepper and salt, and add the yolks of the eggs. Grease 
a border mould, sprinkle it all over with brown breadcrumbs, press the potato mix- 
ture well into it, and keep the mould hot until required. Skin the kidneys, cut each 
in half, season them with pepper and salt. Chop the shallots and mushrooms, melt 
1 oz. of butter in a frying-pan, put in the chopped shallot and mushrooms and the 
kidneys ; fry all together quickly. SHce the tomatoes, allowing one slice for each 
half-kidney ; arrange these slices on a buttered tin, season with salt and pepper, 
and put them into the oven to bake ; do not cook them too much. When ready to 
serve, turn out the border of potato on to a hot dish, dress the kidneys round 
the top of the border, putting between each kidney a shce of tomato ; sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley over, pour the sauce round and in the centre. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

793. ROGNONS A LA TURBIGO. 

Chipolata sausages, 
tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Skin the kidneys, cut them in halves, season them ; chop the shallots. Melt the 
butter in a frying-pan, put in the chopped shallots and the kidneys, and cook them 
quickly. Prepare the mushrooms, and cook them in butter ; cut the sausages in 
small pieces, and grill them. Dish the kidneys in a circle on a hot dish ; arrange ^ 
the mushrooms and sausages in the centre, and pour the sauce round and over the 
garnish. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

794. ROGNONS SAUTES HONGROISE (KIDNEYS SAUTED, HUNGARIAN STYLE). 

6 sheep's kidneys. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1 onion. | ^ gill cream. | 1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). | seasoning. 

Skin the kidneys, cut them into slices, season them Avith salt and pepper, and fry 

quickly in 1 oz. of butter. Take them out of the pan, and drain ; put into the same 

FT. III. 13 



6 sheep's kidneys. 
2 ozs. batter. 



2 shallots. 

small mushrooms. 



192 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

pan the other ounce of butter ; chop the onion, and fry it in the butter, add the 
cream, let it get hot, then stir in the sauce ; boil up, and then rub through a fine 
sieve. Put this sauce into a ste^vpan, add the kidneys to it, heat them in it without 
boiling. Dish them on a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

795. ROGNONS SAUTES A LA CARVALHO (KIDNEYS SAUTED, CARVALHO 

STYLE). 

8 fried croutes of bread. 



4 kidneys. I J pint Madeira sauce 

2 ozs. butter. I (No. 50). 



truffles, 
mushrooms. 



seasonmg. 

Skin the kidneys, cut them in halves, and season with pepper and salt. Fry 
the kidneys in the butter quickly. Dish each half -kidney on a fried bread croute. 
Place on each kidney a small cooked mushroom and a slice of truffle. Dish up, and 
pour the Madeira sauce over the kidneys. 

Average cost, 2s. Gd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

*' ' '^"^ VEAU (VEAL) 

796. FILETS DE VEAU A LA MAINTENON (VEAL CUTLETS, MAINTENON 

STYLE). 

1^ lbs. fillet of veal. I 1 tablespoonful parsley. 2 ozs. fat bacon. I piquant sauce (No. 59). 

6 mushrooms. | 2 shallots. 1 oz. butter. I seasoning. 

Cut the veal into neat sUces, flatten them with a wet cutlet-bat or large knife, 
trim, and season with pepper and salt. Chop the mushrooms, shallots, and parsley 
separately ; mince the bacon. Melt the butter, put into it the bacon and shallots ; 
on these place the cutlets of veal. Let them cook on both sides, but do not allow 
them to get quite done. Let them cool ; add to the other ingredients in the pan 
the chopped mushrooms and parsley, season to taste, and stir over the fire imtil 
the mushrooms are cooked. Add a few breadcrumbs in order to bind the mixture. 
Now season each piece of veal with pepper and salt, spread one side of each with a 
coating of the mixture, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and cover with a 
greased paper. Put into the oven for six or eight minutes. When done, dish up 
on a hot dish in a circle, put some cooked vegetable in the centre, and pour the 
sauce round. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 lb. veal (fillet). 
1| ozs. butter, 
cooked peas. 



4 mushrooms (preserved). 
3 yolks of eggs, 
mashed potato. 



797. FILETS DE VEAU A LA TALLYRAND (FILLETS OF VEAL, 

TALLEYRAND STYLE). 

2 gills white sauce (No. 82). 2 shallots. 
1 tablespoonful chopped ^ lemon, 

parsley. seasoning. 

Cut the meat into rounds, after removing all skin and gristle ; flatten them with 
a cutlet-bat. Chop the shallots and mushrooms. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, 
put in the chopped herbs, place the fillets on the top, and fry them until half cooked, 
but do not let them brown. Warm the white sauce in a stewpan. When hot, put 
in the fillets, and let them simmer gently in it for about twenty minutes. Prepare 
a circle of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the fillets on this, letting the sHces 
overlap each other ; keep hot. Strain the sauce into a clean saucepan, work in the 
yolks of the eggs, let them cook, but do not allow the sauce to boil, or it will curdle. 
Add the lemon-juice and the greater part of the chopped parsley, season to taste, 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



193 



k 



pour over the fillets and round the dish, garnish each fillet mth a pinch of parsley. 
Put the cooked peas or any other kind of green vegetable in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

798. FILETS DE VEAU (VEAL CUTLETS), 



1 lb. veal cutlet. 

2 0Z8. butter, 
ilemon rind. 



I parsley. 



pepper, 
salt. 



thin slices of bacon, 
brown sauce (No, 6). 
flour. 



legg. 

breadcrumbs, 
mashed potato. 

CJut the veal into rounds, and flatten them with a cutlet-bat or knife. Chop the 
parsley and a little lemon-rind. Mix these mth the breadcrumbs and seasoning, 
dredge the fillets with a little flour, dip them in beaten egg, then into the bread- 
crumbs, press with a knife. Fry the fillets in clarified butter for about ten minutes. 
Cut the bacon into very thin slices, roll each up, and put on a skewer. Place this 
in the oven on a baking-sheet, and cook the bacon until crisp. Shape a bed of 
mashed potato into a circle on a hot dish, dress the fillets on this, overlapping each 
other, place the rolled bacon in the centre, pour the brown sauce round, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
■cient for 4 persons. 



799. FILETS DE VEAU A LA DREUX. 



1 J lbs. veal cutlet. 

demi -glace sauce (No. 29). 



tongue, 
truffle. 



larding bacon. 
8 mushrooms. 



seasoning. 
8 quenelles. 



8 olives, 
butter. 



Cut the veal in nice pieces, trim them into round or oval shapes, lard one side 
■of each fillet vnih larding bacon, tongue, and truffle. Melt some butter in a 
frying-pan, and fry the fillets. When cooked, arrange them on a dish in a circle, 
and keep hot. SHce the mushrooms, and cook them in butter. Add the quenelles 
to them, and the stoned and blanched ofives. Moisten them with a little thin sauce. 
Make thoroughly hot, and place this garnish in the centre of the fillets. Pour a 
little sauce round the base of the fillets, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 



cient for 8 persons. 



800. FILETS DE VEAU A LA MADELEINE. 



1| lbs. fillet of veal. 
juHenne potatoes. 



3 ozs. meat-glaze. 
8 fried croutes. 



1 sprig each of thyme, chevril, 
parsley, and tarragon. 



4 ozs. butter. I 1 shallot, 
len^n-juice. I seasoning. 

Cut the fillet of veal into eight round even-sized pieces, trim neatly, removing 
skin and fat ; flatten them with a cutlet-bat. Cut the croutes of bread the same 
size as the veal, and fry them a golden bro\vn. Warm the meat-glaze in a ste\vpan, 
add by degrees 3 ozs. of butter, stirring quickly until it resembles a light creamy 
substance. Add lemon-juice, and the herbs all finely chopped, season with pepper 
and salt. Peel and cut some potatoes into juhenne strips, fry them a golden 
bro\vn. Fry the fillets in the remainder of the butter, season them, and put one 
fillet on each croute of bread. Dish them in a circle, arrange the potatoes in the 
centre and round the fillets, put a dessertspoonful of the glaze and butter mixture 
on each fillet, and serve quickly, very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



801. FILETS DE VEAU A LA COLBERT. 



1 J lbs. fillet of veal. 
2 ozs. butter, 
pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
pommes de terre a la Parisienne 
(No. 802). 



6 slices ham. ^ gill sherry. 

3 shallots. 1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

salt. lemon-juice. 

Trim the veal, free it from skin and gristle, cut it into six slices, flatten, and 
reason with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and 

io -2 



IJ lbs. veal cutlet, 
raw ham. 
2 ozs. butter. 



mushrooms. 

truffle. 

I giU white wine. 



194 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

fry them quickly on both sides. Drain, and keep hot. Chop the shallots, put 
them into the butter the fillets were cooked in, and fry slightly. Moisten with tho 
wine and sauce, boil up, simmer for ten minutes gently, season to taste with salt, 
pepper, and lemon-juice ; add the parsley. Place the fillets in this sauce, warm 
up, but do not boil. Have ready six pieces of ham the same size and shape as tho 
fillets, cook them in butter. Dish the fillets on a hot dish in a circle, place one of 
the pieces of ham between each fillet. Sauce over the fillets mth the prepared 
sauce, and fill the centre with pommes de terre a la Parisienne (No. 802), and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

802. POMMES DE TERRE A LA PARISIENNE (PARISIAN POTATOES). 

Washed and peeled potatoes, scooped out with a vegetable-cutter to the shape 
of round balls. These are put into a saucepan of cold water, and brought quickly 
to the boil. They are then drained, and baked in the oven for ten minutes. 

803. FILETS DE VEAU A LA ZINGARA (VEAL CUTLETS, GIPSY STYLE). 

2 giUs brown sauce. i lemon-juice. 

\ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). ' J gill veal stock. 

1 tablespoonful meat-glaze. seasoning. 

Cut the veal into tliin slices, trim them into oval or round shapes, flatten them 
with a knife or cutlet-bat, season with salt and pepper, and fry in the butter a 
golden brown. When the cutlets are cooked, put them aside, and keep hot. Cut 
some slices of raM' ham the same shape as the cutlets and the same number, fry 
these in the same butter the veal was cooked in. Next prepare the sauce. Put 
the wine into a small stew^an, and reduce to haK ; then add to it the tomato sauce, 
veal stock, brown sauce, and meat-glaze. Bring to the boil, and simmer gently 
for ten minutes. Add the lemon-juice, and season to taste. Cut the mushrooms 
in strips, and cook them in butter. Add the trimmings of the ham and the truffle 
also cut in the same way. Mix all together. Now dish the cutlets and ham in a 
circle on a hot dish in the following manner : First a veal cutlet, on that a slice of 
ham, then a cutlet, then ham. Continue in this way imtil the circle is complete. 
Put the garnish in the centre of the dish, and pour a little of the sauce round. The 
remainder of sauce should be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

804. COTELETTES DE VEAU A L'lTALIENNE. 

1| lbs. veal cutlet. I mashed potatoes, 
salt and pepper. | J gill salad-oil. 

Cut the veal into nice pieces, trim them to a cutlet shape, put in a baking-tin, 
pour over them the oil, season with pepper and salt, cover with a piece of paper, 
and put into a moderate oven until cooked. When the cutlets are done, drain 
them from the oil, shape a circular border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dres? 
the cutlets on it, put the cooked spinach in the centre, and pour the sauce romid. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



Itahan sauce (No. 41). 
spinach. 



805. COTELETTES DE VEAU A LA LYONNAISE. 



8 veal cutlets. 
3 ozs. butter. 



\ gill meat-glaze. 

I pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



\ gill white wine. 1 dessertspoonful chopped 
6 gherkins. parsley. 



Cut the cutlets from a neck of veal, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and trim nicely. 
Season them with salt and pepper. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a frying-pan, put in 
the cutlets, and fry them quickly on both sides until done. Take up the cutlets, 
glaze them, and arrange in a circle on a hot dish. Drain the fat from the pan in 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 195 

which the cutlets were cooked, add the | pint of Espagnole sauce and the wine, 
boil for ten minutes ; then add the chopped gherkins and parsley, and the remainder 
of the butter. As soon as the butter has melted, pour the sauce over the cutlets 
and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 to 8 persons. 



8 veal cutlets, 
breadcrumbs. 



salt and pepper. 
Parmesan cheese. 



2 ozs. spaghetti. 

3 ozs. butter. 



806. COTELETTES DE VEAU A LA NAPOLITAINE (VEAL CUTLETS, 

NEAPOLITAN STYLE). 

1 egg. 

tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Cut the cutlets from a neck of veal, flatten them with, a cutlet-bat, and trim 
nicely. Mix together some breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkle the 
cutlets with salt and pepper. Beat up the egg on a plate, dip the cutlets into it, 
then into the breadcrumbs and cheese. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a frying-pan, put 
in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides until cooked through. Break the spaghetti 
into pieces, and drop it into fast-boiUng salted water. Boil for twenty minutes, 
then drain. ISlelt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, put in the spaghetti, add $ome 
tomato sauce and about ^ oz. of Parmesan cheese, season to taste. Stir all together 
over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Arrange the cutlets on a hot dish in a circle, 
fill the centre with the prepared spaghetti, pour some tomato sauce round the base, 
and serve. ' 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 40 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 to 8 persons. 

807. COTELETTES DE VEAU A L\ POLONAISE. 



I lb. veal forcemeat. 
h gill cream. 



legg. 
breadcrumbs. 



1 cauUflower. 

J pint Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 



Whip the cream shghtly, and mix it into the veal forcemeat. Butter some 
cutlet moulds, fill them with the forcemeat, and poach in a moderate oven for ten 
minutes. Turn out the moulds when cooked, and let them get cold ; then dip in 
egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden brown in hot fat. Boil the cauliflower, 
divide it into sprigs, toss these in melted butter. Dress the cutlets on a hot dish 
in a circle, arrange the cauliflower in the centre, and send to table with the Bearnaise 
sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 cutlets. 



1 lb. veal. 

2 ozs. butter. 
^ gill cream. 



seasoning. 
1 egg. 
breadcrumbs. 



808. COTELETTES DE VEAU A LA POJARSKI (CUTLETS OF VEAL, 

POJARSKI STYLE). 

1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
I gill demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
5 pint cooked peas or beans. 

Take aAvay all skin and gristle from the veal, chop the meat finely, or pass it 
through a mincing machine. Mix with the minced veal the | gill of cream and the 
butter, put all together into a mortar, and pound lightly ; season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Turn this mixture on to a plate, and put into a cool place until ready 
to use. Cook the peas or beans, strain, and toss them in butter over the fire ; keep 
hot. Mix together the two sauces, bring to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. 
Now shape the minced meat into cutlet shapes, dip each into beaten egg, then into 
breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified butter. When cooked, dish the cutlets in a 
circle on a hot dish, put the vegetable in the centre, and pour some of the sauce 
round. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



196 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



809. ESCALOPES DE VEAU A LA MILANAISE (VEAL CUTLETS, 

MILANAISE STYLE). 



1 lb. fillet of veal. 

2 ozs. macaroni. 



egg- 
butter. 



3 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. 
\ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



breadcrumbs, 
seasoning. 



cayenne, 
potato. 



Cut the veal into rounds 2| inches in diameter and \ inch thick, trim, and season 
with pepper and salt. Melt some butter, pour it on to a plate, dip the fillets into 
it, then into beaten egg and breadcrumbs. The latter shotild have 1 oz. of grated 
cheese mixed Avith it. Fry the cutlets a golden brown in clarified butter or lard. 
Boil the macaroni in salted water, drain, and cut it up in inch lengths. Put it into 
a saucepan with the sauce, the remainder of the grated cheese, a pinch of cayenne, 
a little butter and seasoning. Mix all well together, and make thoroughly hot. 
Make a circular border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the cutlets on it, put 
the garnish in the centre, and pour brown or tomato sauce round the base. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufl&- 
cient for 4 persons. 




Fio. 33. — Escalopes de Veau k la Milanaisb. 
810. GRENADINS DE VEAU AUX PETITS POIS. 



1 lb. fillet of veal, 
bouquet of herbs. 



larding bacon, 
mashed potato. 



1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 



1 onion, 
celery. 



^ pint stock, 
cooked peas. 



Take away all skin and gristle from the meat, cut it into neat pieces, and lard 
one side of each cutlet with the larding bacon cut in strips. Cut the vegetables 
in slices, put them into a ste\A^an mth the stock, put the grenadines on the vege- 
tables, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid of the ste\vpan, and braise over 
the fire or in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked, take up, put 
them on a baking-sheet, and place in the oven to broA\Ti the bacon. Strain the 
cooking-liquor from the braise into a small saucepan, reduce it to half -glaze. Make 
a circular border with the mashed potato, dress the fillets on it, pour the glaze over, 
and fill the centre vnih the cooked peas. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



811. SAUTE DE VEAU A LA CHASSEUR. 

l\ pints brown stock. 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 
^ gill tomato puree. 29). 

1 tablespoonful meat- 1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 

glaze. ^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Cut the veal into pieces, each piece weighing about 2 ozs. Melt 2 ozs. of butter 
in a stewpan, put in the veal, and fry brown. Drain off the butter, and add 1 pint 



1^ lbs. veal. 
4 ozs. butter. 
6 mushrooms, 
pepper. 



1 shallot. 

1 gill white wine. 

chopped parsley. 

salt. 



ENTREES [HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



197 



of brouTi stock, | gill of tomato puree, and the bouquet garni ; bring to the boil, 
then put the pan in the oven, and cook gently for one hour and a half. When done, 
put the veal into another saucepan ; boil the cooking liquor until reduced to a quarter 
of the quantity, add this to the veal. Into a clean saucepan put 2 ozs. of butter, 
melt it, and fry in it the chopped shallot ; peel and chop the mushrooms, add them to 
the fried shallot, and cook quickly. Pour in the wine, boil until it is reduced to half, 
then add the demi-glace and tomato sauces, the meat-glaze, and seasoning. Boil for 
five minutes more, then add a teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley. Add this sauce to the 
veal, and cook again for twenty minutes. Dish up, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 
Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



812. VEAU SAUTE A LA MARENGO. 



IJ lbs. fillet of veal. 
J pint brown sauce 
(No. 6). 



4 shallots. 

1 gill white wine. 

12 mushrooms. 



1 gill salad-oil. 
chopped parsley, 
seasoning. 



1 gill tomato sauce (No. 

77). 
croutons of fried bread. 

Cut the veal into slices ; heat the oil in a frying-pan, put in the meat, and fry 
brown ; add the chopped shallots, and cook a few moments longer. Pour away 
the oil, then add the wine, and reduce to half ; stir in the brown and tomato sauces, 
and cook over the fire again for half an hour. When cooked, dish in a pile on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish the dish with the mushrooms, which have 
been previously cooked in butter, and the fried bread croutes cut in the shape of 
crescents, and fried. Sprinkle over a Uttle chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 




Fig. 84. — Olives de Veau. 
813. OLIVES DE VEAU. 



1 Ib.^fillet'of veal, 
i lemon-rind. 

2 ozs. butter. 



pepper, 
salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls beef suet. 
1 tablespoonful chopped 
parsley. 



2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 
1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
^^. ^^..^^. J tablespoonful mixed herbs. ^ . 

Cut the meat into thin slices, bat them with a wet cutlet-bat. Chop the suet ; 
mix it in a basin with the breadcrumbs, parsley, herbs, grated lemon-rmd, and 
seasoning ; beat the egg, and mix into the dry ingredients, just enough to moisten 
them. Season each slice of meat with pepper and salt, and spread a layer of the 
stuffing over them ; roll up, and tie with string. Melt the butter m a stewpan, put 
in the olives, and fry a golden brown ; strain off the fat, add the bro%vn sauce, and 
cook gently for about three-quarters of an hour, or until the meat is tender. When 



198 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



ready to serve, lift the olives on to a plate, take off the string, dress the olives in a 
hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times- 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

814. BLANQUETTE DE VEAU (WHITE STEW OF VEAL). 



2 lbs. fillet of veal. 
1 oz. butter. 
I gill cream. 



seasoning. 

12 preserved mushrooms. 

12 peppercorns. 



1 oz. flour. 
1 large onion. 
1 carrot. 

Cut the veal into square pieces, put them into a stewpan with enough cold water 
to cover, bring it to the boil, and skim well ; add some salt, the onion peeled and cut 
in quarters, the carrot, and the peppercorns ; cook gently for about an hour. Take 
up the meat, strain the stock, and measure off 1 pint. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
stir in the flour, add the stock ; boil and skim ; cook for a few minutes. Add the 
mushrooms, cut in slices, and the cream ; put in the pieces of veal ; make hot, but do 
not boil again ; season nicely, dish up, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time to prepare, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

815. SOUFFLE DE VEAU. 



1 lb. lean veal. 
Bait and pepper. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



gill stock. 



\ gill cream. 



2 eggs. 
1 trufHe. 



\ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
supreme sauce (No. 74). 

Cut up the meat, remove all skin and gristle, mince it finely. Melt the butter 
in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until very thick ; add 
this to the veal, put them together into a mortar, and pound well together ; then mix 
in the Bechamel sauce and the yolks of eggs, one at a time ; season to taste with 
pepper and salt, mix all well together, and then rub through a wire sieve. Whip 
the cream slightly, and mix it with the puree ; lastly, whip the two whites of eggs 
stiffly, and stir it lightly into the mixture. Well butter a charlotte mould, turn the 
preparation into it, shake it down well, place in a steamer, and steam gently for one 
hour. When cooked, turn the shape out on to a hot dish, decorate the top with 
chopped truffle, and serve with supreme sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

816. CREME DE VEAU A LA FINANCIERE (CREAM OF VEAL, 

FINANCIERE STYLE). 



supreme sauce (No. 74). 
financiere garnish (No. 223). 



1 lb. veal. 2 ozs. butter, j 1 gill stock. 2 eggs. 

salt. 2 ozs. flour. | I gill cream. pepper. 

Remove all skin and gristle from the veal, cut it into small pieces, and put into a 
mortar. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil 
until very thick ; put this sauce to the veal, and poimd them together until thor- 
oughly mixed, then add the eggs one at a time, season to taste with salt and pepper, 
mix all well together, then rub through a wire sieve. Whip the cream hghtly, and 
add to the preparation. Well butter a plain charlotte mould, Une this all over with 
the veal mixture, fill the centre with the financiere garnish, and cover with the veal 
forcemeat. Put the cream into a steamer, and steam slowly for forty-five minutes 
or one hour. When cooked, turn out on to a hot dish, pour the supreme sauce over, 
and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

817. PAUPIETTES DE VEAU A LA JARDINIERE (FILLETS OF VEAL, 

STUFFED AND ROLLED). 



2 lbs. fillet of veal. 


legg. 


2 ozs. butter. 


\ pint supreme sauce 


\ pint mixed vegetables 


1 onion. 


parsley. 


1 oz. flour. 


(No. 74). 


(peas, beans, carrots. 


4 ozs. fat bacon. 


2 shallots. 


seasoning. 


I pint white stock. 


and turnips). 



Cut six or eight thin slices from the fillet of veal, flatten and trim them with a 
cutlet-bat, a.nd put on one side. With the remainder of the veal and the trimmings. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



199 



which should weigh | pound, make a forcemeat in the following manner : Pass 
the veal through a fine mincer. Melt 1| ozs. of butter in a stewpan, put in the finely 
chopped shallots, and fry them a pale colour ; then stir in the flour, add | gill of stock 
and bring to the boil. Cook until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan. 
Put the minced meat and this panada into a mortar, and pound well together ; 
season highly Avith salt and pepper, add half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
one egg ; pound again until all is thoroughly mixed, then rub through a wire sieve. 
Lay the slices of veal out flat on a board, season them with salt and pepper, spread 
one side of each with the prepared forcemeat, roll up neatly, and tip a piece of fat 
bacon round each. Butter a saute-pan, put in the rolls, season them with salt and 
pepper ; shce the onion, add it to the rolls, also a few sprigs of parsley and the 
remainder of the stock. Put the pan on the fire, bring to the boil, cover with a 
buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about thirty to forty minutes. While these 
are cooking, prepare the vegetables. Peel the turnip, scrape the carrot, cut each in 
dice, and cook them separately in salted water ; have ready cooked also an equal 
quantity of peas and beans, the four vegetables together making | pint. When 
these vegetables are cooked, melt the remaining | oz. of butter in a steA\^an, toss the 
vegetables in it, mixing them all together. When the paupiettes are cooked, take 
them up, drain, and remove the string and bacon. Make a circular border of mashed 
potato on a hot dish, dress the paupiettes on this. Heat the sauce, and pour it^ 
over ; fill the centre with the prepared vegetables, and serve. 

Average cost, 33. 6d. Time required, 1 J hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



818. TIMBALE DE GNOCCHI. 



J lb. veal. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



^ gill stock. I lb. flour. I I lb. butter. milk. 

1 egg. 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. grated 1| gills Bechamel sauce 

seasoning. salt. I cheese. (No. 4). 

Mince the veal finely ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan, mix in 1 oz. of 
flour, add the stock, stir until it boils ; cook until it leaves the sides of the pan. 
Put the veal and this panada into a mortar, pound well together ; when smooth, 
add the egg, and season highly with salt and pepper. Mix all well together, and 
then rub it through a wire sieve. With this farce make some quenelles (No. 324) ; 
poach them in boiling water for ten minutes. Wlien cooked, drain them, and put 
aside. With the flour and butter, yolk of egg, and a pinch of salt, make a paste, 
using a little milk to mix. Roll out this paste | inch thick. Line a plain timbale / 
mould with it, prick the sides and bottom with a fork, fill with rice, and bake a golden' 
colour. When cooked, take out the rice carefully. Have ready the Bechamel 
sauce ; when hot, stir into it the grated Parmesan cheese. Fill the baked crust with 
quenelles, covering each layer with the prepared sauce. Place a piece of paste over 
to form the hd, decorate nicely, brush over with the yolk of the egg, and put into 
a moderately hot oven to bake for about fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, 
unmould, dish it up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



819. PAUPIETTES DE VEAU AUX TOMATES (FILLETS OF VEAL 

ROLLED). 



2 lbs. fillet of veal. 


4 tomatoes. 


J pint cooked spinach. 


1 carrot. 


2 ozs. butter. 


2 ozs. fat bacon. 


J pint stock. 


1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 


1 onion. 


J lb. panada. 


2 ozs. cooked ham. 


2 eggs. 


^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 


J turnip. 


6 mushrooms. 


pepper and salt. 


parsley. 


a few breadcrumbs. 


cayenne. 


6 peppercorns 



Cut the veal into thin slices, flatten and trim them all to the same size. Chop 
the bacon and the trimmings of veal, put into a mortar, and pound well ; add season- 
ing of salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. When fine, add the panada, eggs, and 
about one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When all are thoroughly mixed, rub, 



200 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

through a wire sieve. Spread the shoes of veal with a layer of this farce, roll up, 
and tie each round \^dtll a piece of buttered paper. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the rolls, add the bouquet garni, peppercorns, onion, carrot, and turnip cut 
in slices ; dilute with the stock, cover ^\-ith the lid, and put the pan on a slow fire to 
braise the contents for about forty-five minutes. Chop the cooked ham and 
the mushrooms ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a ste\A^an, put the chopped ingredients into 
it, and cook for a few minutes ; add seasoning, a little chopped parsley, and a few 
breadcrumbs ; moisten with a little of the Espagnole sauce. Cut the tomatoes in 
halves, scoop out some of the centre of each, season with pepper and salt, and fill 
them with the prepared mixture. Place the tomatoes on a buttered tin, and bake 
in the oven for about ten minutes. As soon as the paupiettes are cooked, take them 
up and remove the paper ; brush them over quickly with liquid meat-glaze, and place 
each paupiette in the centre of a stuffed tomato. Dish in a circle on a hot dish ; 
arrange the cooked spinach in the centre, and pour the sauce round. The braising 
liquor in which the paupiettes were cooked should be added to the sauce, and then 
reduced to a proper consistency. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons, 

820. TENDRONS DE VEAU A LA MACEDOINE. 



2 lbs. breast of veal. 
1 glass white wine, 
macedoine of vegetables. 



bouquet-gami. 
J pint stock, 
salt. 



pepper. 

1 oz. meat-glaze. 

mashed potatoes. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
1 bay-leaf. 

Braise the veal with the vegetables, herbs, and stock. When cooked, take out 
the bones, and press it until cold ; then trim it into cutlet-shaped pieces. Strain 
the liquor from the braise, add the wine to it and the meat-glaze, reduce a little, 
then put in the pieces of meat, and allow them to get thoroughly hot. Make a 
border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the tendrons on this in a circle, and 
fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables {i.e., peas, beans, carrots, turnips, etc.), 
which have been first cooked separately in salted water, and then tossed together 
in a little melted butter over the fire. Reduce the liquor from the tendrons to half 
glaze, and pour it round the dish. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



821. QUENELLES EN SURPRISE. 



8 ozs. veal. 
J lb. panada. 
2 eggs. 



J gill cream. 
J cucumber. 
1 oz. butter. 



mashed potatoes. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce 

(No. 4). 



1 tablespoonful cooked 1 trufHe. 

spinach. salt. 

1 gill cooked peas. pepper. 

Remove all skin and gristle from the raw veal (chicken or rabbit can be used 
instead), cut it up into small pieces, put into a mortar with the panada, potmd well 
until it is a smooth paste, then add the eggs one at a time ; season with pepper and 
salt, add the cooked spinach, pound all together until thoroughly mixed, then rub 
through a wire sieve. Whip the cream lightly, and mix it into the puree. Have 
ready greased some pea-shaped moulds ; fill them mth the above mixture, place them 
in a baking-tin with a little water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. 
With a vegetable scoop, cut out some round shapes the size of peas from the cucum- 
ber ; cut the truffle in the same way. Cook the cucumber in salted water, drain, 
and mix with the cooked peas and truffie. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put 
in the vegetables and truffie, toss over the fire until hot, season with salt and pepper. 
Make a circular border of mashed potato on a hot dish, turn out the little moulds, 
dress them on the border, fill the centre with the garnish of vegetables, pour some 
Bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the summer. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 moulds. 



/ 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



201 



822. QUENELLES DE VEAU (QUENELLES OF VEAL), 



1 lb. fillet of veal. 

2 ozs. butter. 

1 gill white stock. 



2 ozs. flour. 
2 eggs, 
salt. 



pepper. 

1 pint white sauce 
(No. 82). 



mashed potatcJ. 

^ gill cream. 

I pint cooked peas. 



Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil 
until thick and the mixture leaves the sides of the ste^\'pan clean. Mince the veal^ 
first removing all skin and gristle ; put this into a mortar, add the panada to it, 
and pound well together. Add the eggs one at a time, mix well, season highly 
with salt and pepper, rub the mixture through a wire sieve ; put this quenelle meat 
into a basin, and mix in the cream lightly whipped. Butter a saute-pan, shape 
the quenelles in the following manner : Dip a dessertspoon into hot water, take up 
some of the mixture with it, shape it with a wet loiife into an oval shape ; with 
another dessertspoon dipped in hot water take out the quenelle, and place it in the- 
saute-pan. Pour some boiling water round them, cover with a greased paper and 
a lid, and poach for ten minutes. When the quenelles are cooked, take them up, 
drain on a cloth, arrange them in a circle on a border of mashed potato, pour the 
sauce over them, garnish each with a little chopped parsley, ham, or truffle, and fill 
the centre of the dish with the peas. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 




Fig. 35. — Quenelles de Veau. 



823. FRICADELLES DE VEAU. 



1 lb. lean raw veal, 
piquante sauce (No. 59). 



6 ozs. bread. 
4 OLS. butter. 



2 shallots. 
^ gill cream. 



2 eggs, 
salt. 



milk, 
flour. 



Remove all fat and gristle from the veal, chop the meat finely. Put the crumb 
of bread into a basin, pour over enough milk to soak it ; let it stand for a short time, 
then press out all moisture from it ; put this Avith the meat into a basin. Melt 2 ozs. 
of butter, and stir it into the meat and bread ; add the two eggs, well beaten, salt, 
and pepper. Chop the shallots, cook them in butter without letting them colour ; 
add tliis to the rest of the ingredients, whip the cream slightly, and stir in. Mix all 
well together, then divide the mixture into equal portiotis. Shape each part into 
round flat shapes, dust them lightly with flour. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, 
put in the fricadelles and brown them on both sides, then cook slowly until done. 



202 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round. A well-cooked 
vegetable, such as peas, beans, or spinach, can be served in the centre of the frica- 
delles. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 10 fricadelles. 



824. QUENELLES DE VEAU A LA VILLEROL 



1 lb. veal. 
3 eggs. 



2 ozs. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 pint veloutee sauce (No. 82). 2 ozs. flour. | 1 gill cream, 

salt and pepper. 1 gill stock. | cooked peas. 

Trim the meat, remove all skin and gristle, cut it up in small pieces. Melt the 
butter in a ste^\^an, put in the flour, add the stock, stir until it boils, cook until 
it is very thick, and leaves the side of the saucepan. Put this panada into a mortar, 
iidd the meat to it, and pound until it is a smooth paste ; season well with salt and 
pepper, add the two eggs, and mix thoroughly, then rub the mixture through a wire 
sieve. Whip the cream shghtly, and add it to the preparation. Take half this 
mixture, and put it in a buttered border mould ; steam for twenty minutes. With 
the remainder of the forcemeat, shape some quenelles with two dessertspoons 
dipped in boilin^g Avater, then poach in boiling water for ten minutes. When cooked, 
drain them, and let cool. Coat them all over with well-reduced veloute sauce, and 
let them cool and set. When ready, egg and breadcrumb, and fry them in very hot 
fat a golden colour. Have the peas ready cooked, put them into a little melted 
butter, and toss in it over the fire. Turn out the forcemeat border on to a hot dish, 
dress the quenelles round the top of the border, arrange the peas in the centre. 
Heat up the remainder of the sauce, and pour it round the base of the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year, if bottled 
peas are used. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



( 



825. QUENELLES DE VEAU A LA MARENGO (VEAL QUENELLES, 

MARENGO STYLE). 



f lb. veal. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



J gill stock. 

legg. 

J gill cream. 



12 fresh mushrooms. 

1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

J gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 



^ gill white wine, 
salt and pepper, 
chopped parsley. 



Take away all fat, skin, and gristle from the meat, cut it up in small pieces, and 
put it into a mortar. Make a panada, with the butter, flour, and stock as in previous 
recipes, add it to the meat, and pound well together ; work in the egg, and season to 
taste with salt and pepper. Rub through a wire sieve. Whip the cream a little, 
and stir it into the forcemeat. Shape this mixture into quenelles by means of two 
dessertspoons ; transfer them as soon as made to a buttered saute-pan, pour in 
some boiling water, cover them closely, ai>d poach for ten minutes. Warm up the 
brown and tomato sauces together, add the wine to them, bring to the boil, and 
simmer gently for ten minutes. When the quenelles are cooked, lift them out of the 
saute-pan, drain them on a cloth, and dish on a hot dish in the form of a pyramid ; 
pour the sauce over, and garnish with the cooked mushrooms, placed round in groups, 
Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 quenelles. 



826. QUENELLES DE VEAU A L'INDIENNE (QUENELLES OF VEAL, 

INDIAN STYLE). 



I lb. veal. 

1^ ozs. butter. 

1 oz. flour. 



^ gill stock. 1 gill boiled rice. 

1 egg, 1 teaspoonful curry-powder. 

^ gill cream. | pint curry sauce (No. 23). 

Take away all fat, skin, and gristle from the veal, cut it up into small pieces. 
Chop the shallot very finely, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot, and fry 



salt, 
pepper. 
1 shallot. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



203 



it until a light colour, then add the curry-powder, stir it for a few seconds in the 
butter, add the flour ; mix to a smooth paste, then stir in the stock, and boil until 
a thick sauce. Put this mixture with the meat into a mortar, pound well, then add 
the egg, salt, and pepper. Rub this preparation through a wire sieve. Whip the 
cream a little, stir it into the forcemeat, and shape into quenelles by means of two 
dessertspoons first dipped in boiling water. Put each quenelle, as soon as it is 
shaped, into a buttered saute-pan, pour in some boiling stock or water, cover over 
closely, and simmer gently for ten to fifteen minutes. When cooked, take them up, 
drain on a cloth. Shape a circular border of mashed potato on an entree dish, 
dress the quenelles on this, pour the curry sauce over and round the base of the dish, 
sprinkle a httle paprika on each quenelle. Fill the centre with some plain boiled 
rice. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 quenelles. 




Fig. 36. — Quenelles de Veau Frites. 



827. QUENELLES DE VEAU FRIT (FRIED VEAL QUENELLES). 



J lb. lean veal, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 oz. butter. 
J gill cream. 



1 oz. flour. 
^ gill stock. 



2 eggs. 
seasoning. 



peas or beans, 
mashed potato. 



Madeira sauce 
(No. 50). 



Mince the veal finely, taking away all skin and sinew. Melt the butter in a 
small stcA^-pan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until thick. Put the meat 
into a mortar, add the panada just made to it. Pomid well, then break in one egg, 
mix well, season with pepper and salt, and rub the mixture through a wire sieve. 
Whip the cream slightly, stir it into the sieved meat. Shape the quenelles in two 
dessertspoons, arrange them in a saute-pan, pour in some hot water until the pan 
is half full, cover over with a buttered piece of paper and the lid, and poach the ( 
quenelles for ten minutes over the fire. When cooked, take them up, and drain. 
Let them get cold, then egg and breadcrumb each, and fry them in hot fat a golden- 
brown colour. [Make a bed of mashed potato straight do^^'Tl a dish, dress the 
quenelles on this, and garnish with groups of peas, beans, or mixed vegetables 
down each side. Send the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 quenelles. 



204 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



828, GULLASCH DE VEAU. 



2 lbs. lean veal. 
1 lb. new potatoes. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 gill cream. 



I onion. 



1 dessertspoonful flour, 
salt. 



pepper. 
1 apple. 



1 gill milk. 

Take away all skin and gristle from the meat, cut it into small squares. Cut 
the potatoes into good-sized dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the meat, 
.and the finely chopped onion, stir over the fire for a few minutes until they have 
browned a Httle, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle the flour over, add the milk, 
^ream, and the chopped apple. Partly cook the potatoes, then add them to the 
fltew. Cook gently for thirty minutes. Dish, and serve very hot. Care must be 
taken not to break the potatoes. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable spring and early 
;eummer, Suffiicent for 6 persons. 



RIS DE VEAU (SWEETBREAD) 

829. RIS DE VEAU A LA FINANCIERE. 



2 heart sweetbreads. 
■^ ozs. streaky bacon. 



larding bacon. 
8 peppercorns. 



3 gills Madeira sauce (No. 50). 
\ pint stock. 

For Garnish. 



1 carrot. 
1 onion. 



meat-glaze, 
seasoning. 



small chicken or veal quenelles. | a few cockscombs. | mushrooms. | truffles. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one hour or longer, then place them in a 
•stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Bring quickly to the boil, then 
•drain, put them on a plate, cover with another, and put a light weight on the top, 
.and press till cold. When cold, take away the sinew and fat, cut the larding bacon 
into strips, and lard the sweetbreads with it. Cut the carrot and onion into slices 
.and the bacon into dice, put a little butter into a saucepan, add the sliced vegetables, 
peppercorns, and stock. Place the sweetbread on these, cover with buttered paper, 
put the lid on the stewpan, and braise for twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked, 
take up the sweetbreads and glaze them. Dish on a croute of fried bread. Heat 
the garnish in a little thin sauce, and arrange neatly roimd the sweetbreads. Pour 
•some of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required after soaking, 1 hour. Seasonable, full 
.-season, May to August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



.830. RIS DE VEAU A LA TOULOUSE 

2 sweetbreads, 
ilarding bacon. 



^ pint Allemande sauce 
(No. 1). 



(SWEETBREAD, TOULOUSE STYLE). 

celery. 



onion, 
carrot. 



bouquet garni. 

2 ozs. streaky bacon. 



seasonmg. 



Toulouse Garnish. 



a few cockscombs. | quenelles. | truffles. | button mushrooms. | fried bread croutons. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one hour or longer, then place them in 
a stewpan, cover with cold water, put them on the fire, and bring to the boil. Put 
again into cold water, then press under a light weight imtil cold. Take away all 
gristle and fat, cut the larding bacon into thin strips, and lard the sweetbreads with 
it. Cut the vegetables into pieces, lay them in a saucepan, add | pint of stock, the 
Jierbs, and the streaky bacon cut in dice. Place the sweetbreads on this, cover with 
a buttered paper and the Ud of the stewpan, and braise over the fire or in the oven 
for twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked, take up the sweetbread, reduce the 
«cooking-liquor quickly to glaze, and coat the sweetbreads with it. Warm the 
garnish in some of the sauce. Dish the sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
round, and arrange the prepared garnish in groups. Ornament the dish with some 
fried bread croutons cut in fancy shapes. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required after soaking, 1 hour. Seasonable at all 
■.times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES), ETC. 



205 



831. RIS DE VEAU A LA DEMIDOFF. 
2 sweetbreads. | larding bacon. | 1 carrot. | 1 onion. | 1 turnip. | ^ pint stock. 



For Garnish. 



carrots, 
turnips. 



8 mushrooms. 
1 truffle. 



celery, 
butter. 



pinch of tarragon, 
croute of fried bread. 



Madeira sauce (No. 50). 
seasoning. 

Blanch the sweetbreads after they have soaked for an hour or two, press till 
cold, remove the sinew and fat. Cut the larding bacon into strips, and lard the 
sweetbreads with it. SUce the carrot, onion, and turnip, put them into a stewpan 
with a little butter, cook a httle ; then add the stock. Place the sweetbread on this 
cover with a buttered paper and the saucepan-Ud, and braise gently either over the 
fire or in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Prepare the garnish while the sweet- 
breads are cooking. Cut the carrots and turnips into olive shapes, cook them 
separately in salted water. When they are nearly done, drain them, finish the 
cooking in half-glaze. Cut the mushrooms, celery, and truffle into strips, melt 
some butter in a stewpan, put in the strips, and toss them over the fire for ten 




F.G. 37.— Ris DE Veau a la Djmidoff. 

minutes. Warm up the Madeira sauce, add to it a small pinch of chopped tarragon. 
When the sweetbreads are cooked, strain the cooking-liquor into a small stewpan, 
reduce it to glaze, pour it over the sweetbreads. Now dish the sweetbreads on the 
croute on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce round, and arrange the garnish round 
the sweetbreads, groups of the olive shapes of carrots and turnips alternately with 
the strips of mushrooms, celery, truffle, etc. Serve with, the remainder of the sauce, 
\ served separately. 

Average cost, Ts. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



832. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA FAVORITE (CUTLETS OF 
SWEETBREAD, FAVOURITE STYLE). 



^ pint asparagus heads. 
3 ozs. butter. 



sauce pengueux 
(No. 62). 



1 truffle, 
potato. 



2 sweetbreads. 
1 terrine foie-gras. 

Soak and blanch the sweetbreads, press until cold, then cut them in slices. 
"Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the slices of sweetbread, and cook until 
done. Take them up, and keep hot. Cut the foie-gras in sHces, season them \vith 



206 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

pepper and salt, and dredge with a little flour. Toss these in the same butter that 
the sweetbreads were cooked in. Have ready some mashed potato, make a circle 
with it on a hot dish, arrange the slices of sweetbread and foie-gras on this alternately 
in a circle, the slices overlapping each other. Put a piece of truffle on each round 
of sweetbread. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the asparagus 
heads, and saute them in it. Place these in the centre of the dish, pour some of the 
sauce round, and send some more to table separately. 

Average cost, 10s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable from February 
to July. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

833. RIS DE VEAU A LA VILLEROI (FRIED SWEETBREAD). 



1 sweetbread, 
frying batter. 



Villeroi sauce (No. { pepper. fried parsley. 

tomato sauce. 



84). I salt. 

' Blanch, press and braise, and trim the sweetbread, cut it into slices \ inch 
thick. Have ready some stiff Villeroi sauce, coat the slices with it, dip them into 
frying batter, and fry a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them when done, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and dish on a hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve 
with tomato sauce separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 mjnutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. . . , 

834. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA MARECHALE (CUTLETS OF 

SWEETBREAD, MARSHAL STYLE). 



2 sweetbreads, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 egg- 
1 carrot. 



pint white stock. 



1 onion, 
seasoning. 



i pint peas. 
3 ozs. butter. 



marechale sauce (No. 46). 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours, put them into a sauce- 
pan with cold water sufficient to cover, bring to the boil, and simmer for five minutes ; 
then take up the sweetbread, and press under a light weight until cold. Slice the 
vegetables, put them into a stewq^an with a httle butter, fry a little, then add the 
stock. Place the sweetbread on this, cover with a buttered paper and the lid of 
the ste^vpan, cook gently for thirty minutes. When done, take them up, cut each 
into shces, trim, and egg and breadcrumb them. Melt about 2 ozs. of butter in a 
frying-pan, put in the shces, and fry them a golden colour. Cook the peas, and, 
when done, mix them in a saucepan \\dth some butter. Dish the sweetbread in a 
circle on a hot dish, arrange the peas in the centre, and pour some of the sauce round. 
The remainder of the sauce can be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, I hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



2 sweetbreads. ] \ gill cream 
1 bouquet garni. ; seasoning. 
J pint stock. 1 1 truffle. 



1 carrot. 
1 onion, 
butter. 



\ pint cooked peas. 
croutes of fried 
bread. 



835. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA REINE (CUTLETS OF 
SWEETBREAD, QUEEN STYLE). 

I lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). 
J pint perigueux sauce (No. 62). 
1 gill tomato puree (No. 77). 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours, then put them into a 
stewpan with enough water to cover, bring to the boil, drain, and press until cold 
under a light weight. Shce the onion and carrot, put them into a saucepan with 
1 oz. of butter, fry a little, add the bouquet garni and the stock. Place the sweet- 
breads on the vegetables, cover with buttered paper, also the lid of the stewpan, 
and braise over the fire or in the oven for thirty minutes. Mix the cliicken force- 
meat with the whipped cream, keep the mixture as white as possible. When the 
sweetbreads are ready, take them up, cut each into half horizontally, and with an 
oval cutter cut into shapes. Put the forcemeat into a piping-bag fitted with a 
rose-pipe, force with this a border round each slice of sweetbread. Put these shces 
on a baking-sheet, cover them with a buttered paper, so that the forcemeat may 



ENTREES (HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 207 

not discolour, place in the oven for about ten minutes to cook the forcemeat. With 
another piping-bag fitted with a rose-pipe garnish the centre of each slice with a 
rosette of thick, well-reduced tomato puree, which should be as red as possible. 
In the centre of each rosette of tomato puree place a small slice of black truffle. 
Put each slice on a fried croute of bread the same size and shape as the slices of 
sweetbread. Arrange on a hot dish in the form of a rosette, place some peas, 
sauted in butter in the centre, and send the sauce up separately. 

Average cost, 10s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



836. RIS DE VEAU A LA NESSELRODE (SWEETBREAD WITH 

CHESTNUT PUREE). 

1 oz. butter. 

seasoning. 

1 gill brown sauce. 



1 pair sweetbreads 
larding bacon. 
^ pint stock. 



cooked peas or beans. 
1 gill Madeira sauce 
(No. 50). 



slices of onion, carrot, 

and turnip. 
1^ lbs. large chestnuts. 

Soak and blanch the sweetbreads, press lightly until cold, remove the fat and 
gristle. Put the butter into a saucepan ; when melted, put in the sUced vegetables, 
fry a little, and then add the stock. Lard the sweetbreads, put them into the 
saucepan with the vegetables, and braise for thirty minutes. Boil the chestnuts 
until the shell and under-skin can be easily removed, boil again in stock imtil they 
can be rubbed through a fine wire sieve. Return to the saucepan, season nicely, 
mix with it a little butter and enough brown sauce to bind. Take up the sweet- 
breads as soon as they are cooked, strain the liquor, and reduce it to half-glaze. 
Coat the sweetbreads with this. Press the chestnut puree into a border mould, 
then turn it out on to a hot dish. Cut the sweetbreads in slices, and mount them 
on the border. Pour the sauce over, and garnish with the cooked peas in the centre. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. In season always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



6 slices of ox-tongue, j truffles. 
6 mushrooms. i butter. 



837. RIS DE VEAU A LA SOUBISE (SWEETBREAD WITH SOUBISE SAUCE). 

1 large sweetbread. I J lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 
^ lb. short paste. | | pint Soubise sauce (No. 75). 

Soak the sweetbread for one hour. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold 
water, and bring to the boil. Drain, press, and trim. Cut the sweetbread into six 
slices, melt some butter in a saute-pan, and fry the slices of sweetbread. Prepare 
a short crust, using 6 ozs. of flour and 3 ozs. of butter. Line a flan-ring with the 
paste, fill with raw rice, and bake in the oven without browning. When cooked, 
take out the rice carefully, line the bottom and sides of the paste-crust with a thin 
layer of veal forcemeat. Upon this arrange the slices of sweetbread alternately 
with the tongue ; cover with the sauce. Garnish with slices of truffle and 
cooked heads of mushrooms. Place the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 53. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



838. RIS DE VEAU A LA REGENCE. 



2 sweetbreads. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



J turnip. 



1 bouquet garni. 
J pint stock. 



Alleraande sauce (No. 1). 
meat-glaze (No. 247). 
larding bacon. 



6 peppercorns. 
Regence garnish (No. 
235). 

Soak the sweetbreads for one hour, blanch them by covering with cold water and 

bringing them to the boil, press until cold. Trim away all gristle and fat, then lard 

them on one side with thin strips of larding bacon. Cut the vegetables into large 

pieces, put them into a stewpan, add the herbs, peppercorns, and stock. Place the 

PT. III. 14 



208 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



sweetbreads on the top, cover with a buttered paper and the Hd of the ste^vpan, put 
the pan on the stove, and simmer gently for half an hour. When the sweetbreads 
are cooked, take them up, drain, and place on a hot dish. Brush them over quickly 
with liquid meat-glaze, and surroimd them with the garnish arranged in small heaps. 
Serve the Allemande sauce separately. 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

839. RIS DE VEAU A LA GENEVE. 



1 throat sweetbread. 


8 mushrooms. 


6 ohves. 


^ turnip. 


salt. 


fried croute of bread. 


2 ozs. ham. 


1 onion. 


\ pint stock. 


6 peppercorns 


supreme sauce (No. 74). 


truffle. 


1 carrot. 


bouquet garni. 


butter. 



Soak, blanch, press, and trim the sweetbreads. Cut some of the ham and 
truffle into thin strips, ^ inch tliick and \ inch long. Take a small knife, and with 
it make some little holes on the top of the sweetbread, and into these stick the 
strips of ham and truffle alternately. Tie the sweetbread up in a piece of buttered 
paper. Cut the vegetables in slices. Melt some butter in a saucepan, put in the 
vegetables, and fry a few minutes without browning. Then add the herbs, pepper- 
corns, and a little salt. Lastly, pour in the stock. Place the sweetbread on the top 
of the vegetables, cover with the lid, and braise slowly for half an hour. When 
cooked, take it up, remove the paper, and dish the sweetbread on the croute of 
fried bread. Cut the remainder of the ham and truffle into strips. Stone the olives, 
and cook the mushrooms. Heat the olives, ham, and truffle in a little boiling 
stock. Arrange this garnish tastefully round the sweetbread in alternate heaps, 
and servo with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



840. RIS DE VEAU A LA CHASSEUR. 



1 large sweetbread. 
6 preserved mushrooms. 
\ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
bouquet garni (No. 194). 



1 pheasant (old). 
1 glass white wine. 
1 oz. butter. 
\ gill cream. 



truffle. 
1 oz. flour. 
J gill stock, 
legg. 



pepper, 
salt. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



Soak, blanch, press, and trim the sweetbread. SHce the onion and carrot, and 
fry them in about 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan for a few minutes. Then add the 
bouquet garni and the stock. Place the sweetbread on the top of the vegetables, 
cover with buttered paper and the lid of the pan, and braise gently for half an hour. 
Take the meat off the pheasant, mince it finely. Melt the butter in a small stew- 
pan, stir in the flour, add the stock, boil until it is very thick and leaves the sides 
of the saucepan clean. Put the minced pheasant and this panada into a mortar, 
pound well, and then add the egg and seasoning. Mix well, and as soon as it is 
smooth, rui) through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, and mix into it 
the cream, half whipped. Butter a plain border mould, decorate the bottom with 
the mushrooms and slices of truffle, fill up with the pheasant mixture. Stand the 
mould in a baking-tin, pour some water round, cover the mould with a piece of 
buttered paper, and steam in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. As 
soon as the sweetbread is cooked, cut it into nice slices. Heat the sauce, add the 
wine to it, put in the slices of sweetbread, and cook for ten minutes. To serve, 
turn out the border of pheasant on to a hot dish. Arrange the slices of sweetbread 
in the centre. Strain the sauce, and add to it the reduced liquor from the braise. 
Sauce over the sweetbread carefully, and pour the remainder round the base of the 
border. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable October to February. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



209 



841. RIS DE VEAU A LA CEVENOLE. 



1 large sweetbread. 
12 large chestnuts. 



meat-glaze (No. 247). 
1 tablespoonful cream. 



18 button onions. 

i pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



1 oz. butter, stock, 
pepper. salt. 

Blanch, press, trim, and braise the sweetbread, as directed in former recipes.. 
Slit the chestnuts, put them into the oven for ten minutes, then take off the shell 
and the inner skin ; put them into a stewpan with sufficient stock to cover, and 
cook them until tender. Pass them through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a 
saucepan containing 1 oz. of melted butter, add the cream, and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Skin the onions, and boil them in salted water until tender. 
Then melt some meat-glaze in a stewpan, put in the onions, and toss them about in 
it until they are nicely glazed. Reduce the braising liquor from the sweetbread, 
and add it to the bro^ii sauce. Reduce again until of a right consistency. Turn 
the chestnut puree on to a hot dish, make it into an oval shape, place the sweet- 
bread on it, and brush over quickly with meat-glaze. Place a heap of glazed onions 
at each end, and serve with the sauce in a tureen. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable October to February. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

842. RIS DE VEAU A LA DU BARRY (SWEETBREAD WITH 

CAULIFLOWER). 



1 carrot. 
1 onion, 
salt. 



2 sweetbreads. 
1 large cauliflower, 
cooked ox-tongue. 

Soak the sweetbread for one hour 
with cold water ; bring to the boil 



Hollandaise sauce (No. I bouquet garni. 

101). ^ pint stock. 

Madeira sauce (No. 50). 1 pepper. 

Then put them into a ste\vpan, and cover 
Drain, place them on a baking-sheet, put 
another tin on the top. place a weight on this, and press imtil cold. Trim the 
sweetbreads, removing all the fat and gristle. Cut the carrot and onion in large 
pieces ; put them in a stewpan with the bouquet garni, pepper, salt, and stock. 
Place the sweetbreads on the top of the vegetables, cover with a buttered paper, 
and the lid of the saucepan, and cook slowly for half an hour. While the sweet- 
breads are braising, cook the cauliflower in boiling salted water, drain it, and divide 
it into flowerets. Heat some Hollandaise sauce, put into it the flowerets of cauli- 
flower, and keep hot on the side of the fire, but do not let it boil. When the sweet- 
breads are cooked, take up and cut them in slices, dress them on a border of mashed 
potato alternately with slices of cooked ox-tongue. Arrange the cauliflower in 
the centre of the dish. Warm up the Madeira sauce, add the well-reduced liquor 
from the sweetbreads to it, and strain it over them, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

843. RIS DE VEAU A LA JARDINIERE (SWEETBREADS WITH 

MIXED VEGETABLES). 



2 >weetbreads. 

mixed vegetables (peas, beans, 

carrots, asparagus, etc.). 
croute of fried bread. 



1 carrot. 
1 onion, 
bouquet garni. 
seasoning. 



6 chicken or veal quenelles truffle. 

(Nos. 201 and 324). celery. 

i pint demi-glace sauce i pint good 

(No. 29). stock. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours, put them into a sauce- 
pan with enough cold water to cover them, put on the fire, and bring to the boil. 
Then take them up and press mitil cold ; trim them, and remove the fat and gristle. 
Make a bed at the bottom of a saucepan with the onion, carrot, celery, and herbs, 
add the stock, lay the sweetbread on this, cover with a buttered paper, put on the 
lid of the saucepan, and braise slowly for thirty minutes. Cook the mixed vegetables 
separately — the beans (a few) to be cut in dice, the carrots scooped out ^vith a 
vegetable-cutter the shape and size of peas. When cooked, mix these vegetables 
together with the asparagus-tips, and keep hot. Put the fried croute of bread 

14—2 



210 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



on a hot dish, dress the sweetbreads on it. Reduce the Hquor from the braise to 
glaze, and coat the sweetbreads with it. Garnish round the sweetbreads with the 
mixed vegetables ; also put groups of the same romid the dish. Place the quenelles, 
three on each side, round the croute. Sauce over with the demi-glaze sauce. Garnish 
the quenelles and sweetbreads with truffle, cut with a fancy cutter, or chopped, 
and serve hot, (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 8s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 to 8 persons. 

844. RIS DE VEAU A LA MILANAISE (SWEETBREAD, MILANESE 

STYLE). 



1 pair sweetbreads, 
larding bacou. 
1 carrot. 



1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

2 ozs. bacon. 



bouquet garni, 
fried bread croute. 
^ pint good stock. 



seasoning. 

^ pint demi -glace sauce 
(No. 29). 



For Garnish. 



2 ozs. spaghetti. 
1 oz. butter. 



2 ozs. ox-tongue. 
6 mushrooms. 



1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 
1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours, blanch them, and press 
till cold ; trim and remove all fat and gristle. Lard the sweetbreads with strips of 
larding bacon. Make a bed with the vegetables in a stewpan, add the herbs and 
stock ; lay the sweetbreads on this, cover with buttered paper, put on the lid, and 
braise slowly over the fire or in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. To prepare 
the JMilanaise garnish, cook the spaghetti, first breaking it up small, in water to 
which a Uttle salt has been added. When tender, drain and cool. Melt half the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the spaghetti, add the Bechamel and the cheese ; mix 
all well together. Cut the mushrooms in strips, also the tongue. Melt the re- 
mainder of the butter in a saucepan, put in the mushrooms, cook a Uttle, and then 
add the tongue, and season with salt and cayenne. When the sweetbreads are 
cooked, dish them on the fried croute of bread, placed in the centre of a hot dish. 
Reduce the braising liquor to half -glaze, and glaze the sweetbreads with it. Arrange 
the garnish in groups round the dish, the spaghetti, the mushrooms, and tongue in 
alternate groups. Serve hot, and send the demi-glace sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 8s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

845. RIS DE VEAU A L'lTALIENNE (SWEETBREAD WITH 

ITALIAN SAUCE). 



1 sweetbread, 
stick of celery, 
bouquet garni. 



\ pint stock, 
larding bacon. 
8 small quenelles. 



1 carrot. 
1 onion. 
1 truffle. 



\ pint Italian sauce (No. 41). 
fried croute of bread. 
8 button mushrooms. 



Soak the sweetbread for one or two hours, then put it into a saucepan with 
enough water to cover, and bring it to the boil ; drain it, and press till cold mider a 
light weight. Cut the vegetables in pieces, arrange them in a ste^vpan, add the 
bouquet garni and the stock. When the sweetbread is cold, take away the fat and 
gristle, and lard it with tliin strips of larding bacon. Put the sweetbreads on the 
vegetables in the stewpan, cover with a buttered paper, also with the lid of the 
saucepan, and braise over the fire or in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Fry 
a croute of bread about 1 inch thick, place it on a hot dish, dress the sweetbread on 
it, and keep hot. Reduce the braising liquor until it becomes glaze, pour this 
over the sweetbread. Warm the quenelles and mushrooms up in some of the 
9auce, thinned down. When ready to serve, pour the sauce round the dish, and 
garnish with the quenelles, etc. Chop the truffle, and decorate the sweetbread 
with it. 

Average cost, 63. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 




"E 
> 



pi 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 211 

846. RIS DE VEAU FRIT (FRIED SWEETBREAD). 



1 throat sweetbread. 
1 egg. 



seasoning. 

tomato sauce (No. 77). 



breadcrumbs. 

fried parsley (No. 195). 



Soak and blanch the sweetbread, press Hghtly until cold, cut it into slices about 
I inch thick, season them with pepper and salt. Beat up an egg on a plate, dip 
each slice in it ; toss in breadcrumbs. Repeat this, then fry them in boiling fat a 
golden browTi. Dish up on a hot dish in a pile, and garnish with fried parsley. 
Send some tomato sauce to table with them separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

847, ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A L'INDIENNE (CUTLETS OF 

SWEETBREAD, INDIAN STYLE). 



1 pair sweetbreads. 



boiled rice. 



vegetables for braising (seo 
previous recipes). 



mashed potato, 
curry sauce (No. 23). seasoning. chopped parsley. 

Soak the sweetbreads for one or two hours in cold water, blanch, press till cold ; 
then trim and braise them. When they are cooked, cut them in slices, and keep 
hot. With the mashed potato, make a circular border on a hot dish. Arrange 
the slices of sweetbread on this, overlapping each other. Pour the curry sauce 
over. Put a pinch of chopped parsley in the centre of each piece of sweetbread, 
and put some plain boiled rice in the centre of the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

848. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA MORNAY (SLICES OF 
SWEETBREAD WITH MORNAY SAUCE). 



2 sweetbreads, 
truffle. 



^ pint Mornay sauce asparagus heads. 

3 ozs. butter. 



salt. 
pepper. 



(No. 110). 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one hour, drain, and place them in a 
saucepan ; cover with cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Then take them 
up and press between two dishes until cold. Trim them, taking away the gristle 
and fat, cut them into slices, and season with salt and pepper. Melt 2 ozs. of 
butter in a frying-pan, put in the shces of sweetbread, and cook them without allow- 
ing them to colour. Dish in a circle on a hot dish. Cut a slice of truffle for each 
fillet, and put them between the slices of sweetbread. Coat all over with the 
sauce, and put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to brown the surface. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, toss the asparagus heads in it, fill the centre of the 
dish with them, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d, Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable March to June. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



849. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA JUSTINE, 



2 sweetbreads. 
8 mushrooms. 



^ lb. chicken or veal force- butter. salt. chopped parsley. 

meat (No. 201). pepper, peas. ^ pint brown sauce (No. G). 



Soak the sweetbreads for one hour, take up, drain, and put them into a sauce- 
pan ; cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. Lift them on to a tin, put 
another tin or plate on the top, a weight on that, and press until cold. Trim them, 
removing all fat and gristle, and cut each sweetbread into four slices, or, if large, 
into five. Prepare the forcemeat, and divide it into eight portions. Shape these 
to the same size as the sweetbread slices. Poach them in boiling water for about 
ten minutes. When sufficiently cooked, take up and drain. Melt some butter 
in a saute-pan, and toss the slices of sweetbread in it. Place the mushrooms on 
a buttered tin, put a tiny bit of butter on each, season with pepper and salt, and 



212 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



cook in the oven until done. Now proceed to dish up in the following manner : 
Arrange the pieces of poached forcemeat in a circle on a hot dish, place a slice of 
sweetbread on each, on that a mushroom-head, and in the centre of the mushroom 
a pinch of chopped parsley. Fill the centre of the dish with peas tossed in butter. 
Send to table with a tureen of rich browTi sauce. 

Average cost, 9s. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



850. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA SUPREME (SWEETBREAD 

CUTLETS, SUPREME SAUCE). 



2 throat sweetbreads. 


celery. 


2 0Z3. streaky bacon. 


\ pint cooked peas 


\ pint supreme sauce (No. 74). 


1 carrot. 


\ pint good stock. 


mashed potato. 


1 onion. 


seasoning. 


bouquet garni. 


1 truflfle. 



Soak the sweetbreads for one hour in cold water. Cut the vegetables in pieces, 
arrange these in a ste\vpan, add the bouquet garni, the bacon cut in dice, and the 
stock. Lay the sweetbreads on the top, cover with a buttered paper, put on the 
lid of the saucepan, set it on the fire or in the oven, and braise gently for twenty or 
thirty minutes. Warm up the sauce. Make a border of mashed potato on a hot 
dish. When the sweetbreads are cooked, take them up, and cut into slices ; put 
these into the sauce, and cook very gently for ten minutes. Dish the slices of 
sweetbread on the border of potato, overlapping each other. Strain the sauce over. 
Have the peas ready cooked, toss them in butter, and place in the centre of the 
cutlets. Garnish the slices of sweetbread with chopped truffle, and serve. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



851. TIMBALE DE RIS DAGNEAU AUX PETITS POIS (MOULD 
OF LAMB'S SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS). 



J lb. lambs' sweetbreads. 

1 pint green peas. 

6 preserved mushrooms. 

2 ozs. ox-tongue. 



1 gill brown sauce. 
1 truffle. 



seasonmg. 
stock. 



1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 whole egg and 2 yolks. 
1 hard-boiled white of egg. 
vegetables for braising. 

Soak, blanch, press, and braise the sweetbreads. Boil the peas, strain them 
when done, and rub through a sieve. Melt some butter in a ste\vpan, put in the 
puree of peas, add the Bechamel sauce and the eggs, season with pepper and salt. 
Butter a 1| pint size timble mould, decorate the bottom and sides Avith stars of 
truffle, hard-boiled white of egg, and ox-tongue ; then line it with the pea puree 
at least an inch thick. Trim the sweetbreads, removing all fat and gristle, cut 
them up into good-sized pieces. Slice the mushrooms, the trimmings of the tongue 
and truffle, and mix these with the pieces of sweetbread ; moisten with the brown 
sauce. Season to taste. Fill the mould with this mixture ; cover the top with a 
layer of the pea puree. Place the mould on a baking-tin containing water, cover 
with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for thirty to forty minutes. Un- 
mould on to a hot dish, pour some broAvn or white sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable June and July. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



852. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU AUX CONCOMBRES (CUTLETS 
OF SWEETBREAD WITH CUCUMBERS). 

3 ozs. butter. 

h pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one hour or longer, then blanch them 
by putting them in a stewpan, covering with cold water, and bringing to the boil. 
When the sweetbreads are blanched, press them lightly until cold ; then cut into 



2 large sweetbreads. 
1 large cucumber. 



mashed potato, 
chopped parsley. 



seasonmg. 
1 gill cream. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



213 



nice slices. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, and, when hot, put in the slices of 
sweetbread, and fry imtil nearly done. Drain off the butter, add the cream, and 
make hot ; then stir in the sauce, season to taste, and cook over the fire for a few 
minutes longer. Peel the cucumbers cut in quarters, take out the seeds, and cut 
up into large dice. Boil these in salted water until nearly cooked, then drain 
them. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the dice of cucumber, 
and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Add to them a little chopped parsley 
and seasoning. Make a border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the cutlets 
of sweetbread on it in a circle, strain the sauce over, and put the prepared cucumber 
in the centre. Garnish the cutlets with chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 




Fig. 38. — Petites Timbales de .Ris de Veau aux Epinakds. 



853. PETITES TIMBALES DE RIS DE VEAU AUX EPINARDS (LITTLE 
MOULDS OF SWEETBREAD WITH SPINACH). 



1 pint spinach (cooked). 

2 whole eggs and 2 yolks. 
1 throat sweetbread. 

J gill white wine. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 oz. butter. 
6 mushrooms. 
1 oz. ham. 



1 gill thick Bechamel 

sauce (No. 4). 
IJ gills Madeira sauce 

(No. 50.) 



seasoning. 
1 shallot. 

1 hard-boiled white 
of egg. 

2 ozs. of butter in a 



As soon as the spinach is cooked, chop it finely. Melt 
saucepan, add the spinach to it, and the Bechamel sauce, mix well ; stir in the 
eggs and seasoning. When thoroughly mixed, turn out on to a plate to get cold. 
Grease some dariole moulds, decorate each with stars cut out of ham and the 
hard-boiled white of eggs. Soak and blanch the sweetbread ; cut it into large dice- 
shapes. Chop the shallot, peel the mushrooms, and cut them in quarters. Melt ' 
the butter in a saute-pan, put in the chopped shallot, blend it in the butter without 
browning for a few minutes. Then add the sweetbread, and when it begins to brown, 
add the mushrooms. Dilute with the wine. Let this reduce, then mix in just 
sufficient sauce to bind the mixture. Season to taste, and put aside. Line the 
decorated moulds with the spinach mixture, taking care to have it at least | inch 
thick. Fill the centre of each mould with the sweetbread mixture nearly to the 
top Put a layer of the spinach over the top, smooth with a knife, and see that 
they are quite level, or they will not stand straight when turned out. Stand the 
little moulds in a deep baking-tin containing hot water to a third of their height, 



214 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

put a piece of paper over them, and steam in the oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
When cooked, turn out the moulds on to a hot dish, pour a Uttle of the sauce round, 
and send the remainder to table separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 timbales. 

854. ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU AUX ASPERGES (SWEETBREAD 

CUTLETS WITH ASPARAGUS). 

2 throat sweetbreads. 



slices of tongue. 



^ pint Bechamel sauce | 2 ozs. butter. \ gill of cream. 

(No. 4). I asparagus tips. 



Soak and blanch the sweetbreads, press until cold ; then cut them into nice 
slices, as large as possible. Put the butter into a frying-pan, melt it, and then 
r.rrange the slices in it. Season them with pepper and salt, and fry over a moderate 
fire. Cook them on both sides. Take up the sweetbread and keep hot. Put the 
slices of tongue, one for each slice of sweetbread, into the butter that the sweet- 
breads were cooked in, and heat them through. Have the asparagus ready boiled, 
saute the tips in a little butter. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, putting 
between each slice a piece of the tongue. Stir the cream into the hot Bechamel 
sauce, pour it over the sweetbread, and fill the centre with the asparagus. A 
little chopped truffle to garnish the cutlets is an improvement. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable February to 
July. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

855. VOL-AU-VENT DE RIS DE VEAU A LA MILANAISE. 

2 gills stock. 1 shallot. 1 oz. flour. 1 yolk of egg. 



1 sweetbread. I 2 ozs. maca- | A oz. lean bacon 



seasonmg. 



1 oz. butter. 



2 ozs. tongue. ! roni. I 1 lb. puff pastry. J gill cream, parsley. 

Make the puff pastry. To cut the vol-au-vent, take a round or oval-shaped 
mould the size desired, turn it on to the pastry, and press it so as to leave a faint 
mark. Remove the mould, dip a sharp knife into boiling water, and cut roimd 
where the mark is, slanting inwards a very little. Egg over the top, and with a 
plain cutter dipped in hot water make an incision partly through the paste, leaving 
a margin all round 1 inch wide. Bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters 
of an hour. When cooked, lift up the top of the cut portion, and take out the soft 
inside. Boil the macaroni mitil tender in salted water. Blanch and braise the 
s\teetbread, cut the macaroni into 1-inch lengths, and the sweetbread and tongue 
into large dice. Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan, and, when melted, fry the 
chopped shallot and the bacon cut up small. Colour a pale brown, then mix in the 
flour, add the stock, and stir until it boils. Simmer gently for ten minutes, then 
pass through a hair sieve or fine strainer. Return the sauce to the saucepan, stir 
in the cream, season to taste, mix in the yolk of an egg, and cook Avithout letting 
it boil. Add to this sauce the macaroni, sweetbread, and tongue ; let the mixture 
get thoroughly hot. Fill the pastry-case, dish on a napkin, and garnish with 
parsley. ( 

Average cost, 53. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

856. TIMBALE DE RIS DE VEAU A LA NAPOLITAINE (TIMBALE OF 

SWEETBREAD, NAPLES STYLE). 



4 ozs. macaroni. 

1 lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 

1 calf's sweetbread. 



2 truffles. 

12 preserved mushrooms. 

2 ozs. cooked ham. 



seasonmg. 

\\ gills white sauce (No. 72). 

tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Boil the macaroni in salted water. When cooked, drain, and Avash under 
running water. Put the macaroni on a board, and cut it into small slices about 
\ inch in length. Grease a timbale mould with clarified butter, and arrange the 
pieces of macaroni all over the mould, bottom and sides, so that they are com- 



ENTREES (HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 215 

pletely covered. Let it get quite set on ice. Cover the mould all over with the 
forcemeat. This must be done very carefully, so as not to disturb the macaroni. 
Blanch, press, and braise the sweetbread, let it cool, then cut it in small slices. 
Slice the truffles, mushrooms, and ham. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, 
dilute with the white sauce, season to taste, and place the mixture into the mould. | 
Cover over the top with a thick layer of forcemeat. Place a buttered paper over 
the mould, put it in a deep tin containing water, and cook in the oven for about 
thirty minutes. When done, turn it out on to a hot dish, and pour tomato sauce 
round the base of the shape. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 to 8 persons. 

857. FOIE DE VEAU A L'ESPAGNOLE. 



1 calf's liver, 
mashed potato. 



salt, 
pepper. 



flour. thin slices of | onions. 

tomatoes. ! ba?on. ! butter. 



Soak the calf's liver in cold water for ten to fifteen minutes, wipe it with a 
cloth, and cut it into slices. Season these with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with 
flour. Cut some bacon into thin slices, one for each piece of liver, roll the slices, 
and put them on to a skewer. Place this in the oven to cook the bacon. Melt 
about 2 ozs. of butter or dripping in a frying-pan, and fry the slices of liver. Cut 
the tomatoes in halves, place them on a greased baking-sheet, sprinkle "\vith salt 
and pepper, and bake for ten minutes. Allow half a tomato for each slice of liver. 
Shce the onions into thin rounds, season them, dredge with flour, and fry in butter 
or dripping a nice brown. Arrange the slices on a flat bed of mashed potato down 
the centre of a dish, place a roll of cooked bacon on each slice, and arrange the 
tomatoes down one side and the onions on the other. Dredge some flour into the 
pan the liver was fried in, add some stock or water, and stir until it thickens. Season 
with pepper and salt, strain into a sauce-tureen, and serve it with the liver. 

Average cost of liver, lOd. per lb. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

858. FOIE DE VEAU BRAISE (BRAISED CALF'S LIVER). 



1 calf's liver. j 1 carrot, 
larding bacon. bouquet garni. 



1 onion. I 2 ozs. butter. 



1 glass port wine. 

J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

I teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



salt. 

pepper. 

juice of ^ lemon. 

Soak the liver in cold water for ten minutes, then lift it into a cloth, and wipe 
it well. Cut some thin strips of the bacon, and lard one side of the hver with it. 
This is done by means of a larding-needle. Slice the vegetables thinly. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the vegetables, and fry them a golden broAvn. Add 
the Hver, and bro^v^l it on each side. Pour away the fat, add the stock, sauce, and 
season with salt and pepper. Put on the lid, and simmer gently for about half an 
hour ; then add the wine, and cook for ten minutes longer. Take up the liver, and 
dish it. Add to the liquor the juice of the lemon and the chopped parsley. Pour 
this sauce over the liver, and serve whole. 

Average cost of liver, lOd. per lb. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all 
times. 

859. PIEDS DE VEAU FRITS (FRIED CALF'S FEET). 



2 calf's feet. 
peppercorns. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



parsley. 



salt. I oil. I brcadtTumbs. 

flour. I 1 egg. 1 tomato sauce (No. 77). 



Wash the feet, scald, and soak for two hours. Bone the upper part, and take 
out the shank-bone. Put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover, 
and bring to the boil. Drain, and place them in a clean stewpan ; cover with 
water or stock. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot ; cut both in slices, and add to\ 
the feet with the peppercorns. Simmer imtil quite tender, then take up the feet, 
drain, and remove the bones, and press the meat lightly until cold. Cut into 



216 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



small even-sized pieces. Mix together some vinegar and oil, add some chopped 
parsley, pepper, and salt. Put the pieces of meat into a basin or pie-dish, pour 
the dressing over them, and let them soak for half an horn*. Mix together a little 
flom', salt, and pepper. Toss each piece in this, then into beaten egg and bread- 
crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden brown. Drain, dish them up, and serve with the 
tomato sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3| to 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



860. PIEDS DE VEAU EN FRICASSEE. 



2 calf's feet. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion, 
salt. 



peppercorns. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 pint white 

stock. 



H ozs. flour. 
1 gill cream. 

Wash the feet, scald them, bone the upper part, and take out the shank-bone. 
Cut in half, and put them in soak for two hours ; then blanch and drain, put the 
feet in a steu'pan with half the onion peeled and half the carrot, add the pepper- 
corns and salt. Simmer gently until quite tender. As soon as they are sufficiently 
cooked, take them up, drain, and remove the bones. Press lightly mitil cohL 
Take 1 pint of the liquor the feet were boiled in, put it into a clean saucepan, slice 
the remainder of the onion and carrot, add them to the stock, and bring slowly 
to the boil. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, and mix to a 
smooth paste. Whisk this into the boiling stock as soon as it is smooth, remove 
the whisk, and stir with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Cut up the feet into 
nice even-sized pieces, place them in the sauce, and simmer very gently for twenty 
minutes. Season to taste with salt. When ready to serve, add the cream, bring 
to the boil, but do not let it actually boil again. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 



2 calf's feet 
2 ozs. flour. 



861. PIEDS DE VEAU A L'ORLY (FRITTERS OF CALF'S FEET). 

salt. 
2 eggs. 



peppercorns, 
fat for frying. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



\ gill milk, 
i gill oil. 



tomato sauco (No. 77). 
fried parsley (No. 195). 

Wash the feet thoroughly, then scald them, bone the upper part, and take out 
the shank-bone. Cut in half, and put them to soak in cold water for two hours. 
Blanch them, then drain, place them in a stewpan, cover with water. Peel the 
onion, scrape the carrot, slice and add them with the peppercorns to the feet. 
Simmer until quite tender. When cooked, take up and drain, remove the bones, 
and press the meat lightly until cold. Cut into small even-sized pieces. Sieve the 
flour with a Httle salt into a basin, add the yolks of the eggs, stir in the milk and 
oil by degrees, work into a smooth batter, beat well. At the last minute, when ready 
to fry, whisk the whites of the eggs very stifliy, and stir into the batter lightly. Have 
ready some frying-fat ; let it get very hot. Dip each piece of meat into the batter, 
drop them one by one into the fat, and fry a golden colour. Dish them in a heap 
on a napkin or dish-paper arranged on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and 
send to table with them a sauce tureen of tomato sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



862. TETE DE VEAU A L'lTALIENNE (CALF'S HEAD WITH ITALIAN 

SAUCE). 

\ calf's head. 2 onions. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. 2^ quarts cold water, bouquet garni. 

1 carrot. 2 cloves. 6 preserved mushrooms. 10 peppercorns. \h ozs. flour. 

2 ozs. butter. 4 shallots. ^ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 1 gill white wine. seasoning. 

Wash the head, bone it, and then soak it in cold water for one hour. Put the 
head into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring it to the boil. Take it up, 
put into cold water, drain, and wipe it in a cloth, and rub with lemon to prevent it 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 217 

blackening. Cut the meat into nice pieces, put them into a saucepan, add the 
onions, carrot, cloves, bouquet garni, vinegar, salt, and peppercorns. Moisten Avith 
the cold water, bring to the boil, and simmer until the pieces of head are quite 
tender. When done, take up the meat, dress on a hot dish, and keep hot. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, chop the shallots and mushrooms, put them into the butter, 
and fry a little without browning ; then add the wine, and reduce until nearly dry. 
Stir in the flour, measure off 1 pint of the stock from the head, add it to the flour, 
stir until it boils, let it simmer for ten minutes, season to taste, add the tomato 
sauce, and cook for a few minutes longer. Pour the sauce over the pieces of head^ 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 persons. 



863. PETITES BOUCHEES DE TETE DE VEAU (PATTIES OF 

CALF'S HEAD). 

calf's head, 
white sauce, 
seasoning. 



lemon-juice, 
cayenne. 

IOCTOr 



1 dessertspoonful 

parsley. 
^ lb. puff paste. 



1 tablespoonful ham. 
^ tea=^poonfal chutney. 
1 yolk of egg. 

Roll out the puff-pastry, fold it in three, let it stand in a cool place for fifteen 
minutes ; then cut it out with a 2-inch cutter into rounds, lay them on a baking- 
sheet. Beat up an egg, and brush over the patties with it. Take a smaller cutter, 
dip it in hot water, and mark the top of each with it. Bake in a sharp oven for 
about fifteen minutes. Lift out the piece marked with the smaller cutter (this will 
form the lid), scoop out some of the inside, and fill with the following mixture : 
Cut some trimmings of cooked calf's head and the ham into small dice, put into a 
small steA^T^an, add the chutney, parsley, seasoning of salt, pepper, and cayenne, 
dilute with white sauce to a nice consistency, add the yolk of the egg, bind the- 
mixture over the fire, but do not let it boil. When the cases are filled, put on the 
lids, dish up on a napkin or dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost of half calf's head, 2s. 6d. to 3s. Time required, 1 hour (exclusive 
of cooking the head). Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

864. TETE DE VEAU A LA POULETTE. 
J calf's head. | 1 pint Allemande sauce (No. 1). | lemon-juice. | chopped parsley. 

Bone and cook the calf's head as in the previous recipe. When done, take up 
the pieces of head, and put them into a clean saucepan. Heat the Allemande sauce, 
mix with it some finely chopped parsley, and season with lemon- juice. Pour this 
sauce over the pieces of head in the saucepan, simmer gently for twenty minutes. 
If the sauce at the end of that time is too thick, add some cream or milk. Dish on 
a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 persons. 

865. TETE DE VEAU A LA VINAIGRETTE. 
J calf's head. | ^ gill vinegar. | 1 gill oil. | parsley. ( pepper. | salt. | capers. | shallot. 
Bone and cook the calf's head, as in previous recipe. Dish the pieces of head 
very hot on a napkin, garnish them with parsley. Send to table separately a tureen 
of vinaigrette sauce made as follows : Mix the oil and vinegar together, chop 
the shallot, capers, and parsley, and add to the oil and vinegar with salt and 
pepper. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 persons. 



218 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



866. TTEE DE VEAU EN TORTUE (CALF'S HEAD, TURTLE STYLE). 



\ calf's head. 
2 ozs. flour. 



2 ozs. beef suet. 
bouquet garni. 



2^ quarks cold water. 
1 teaspoonful vinegar. 



1 carrot. 

2 onions. 



2 cloves. 
1 bay-leaf. 



TORTUE GaBNISH. 



small quenelles of veal, 
cockscombs. 



stuffed and poached olives, 
demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



button mushrooms, 
fried bread croutons. 

Wash the head, bone it, and soak in water for one hour ; then put it into a 
saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. Simmer for half an hour. 
Take it up, put into cold water, drain, and rub it with lemon to prevent it blackening. 
Chop the suet finely, melt it over the fire, add the flour, and stir in the 2\ quarts of 
cold water. Add the onion, carrot, cloves, bouquet garni, and bay-leaf. Cut up 
the meat into nice pieces, put them into the ste\vpan, add the vinegar, and simmer 
until tender. When tender, take up the meat, dress on a hot dish, and pour over 
the sauce and the garnish. Place the fried croutons round the dish. The dish may 
also be decorated with fried eggs, and trussed crayfish cooked in stock, and slices 
of calf's brain and tongue. 

Average cost of calf's head (whole), 5s. to 6s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



CERVELLES (BRAINS) 

867. TO COOK BRAINS. 

Remove the skin from the brains, and soak them in cold water until quite white. 
Put them into a saucepan, and cover with good boiling stock. Boil up, skim well, 
and cook for haK an hour. 

868. CERVELLES AU BEURRE NOIR (BRAINS WITH BLACK BUTTER). 



2 calves' brains, 
pepper. 



salt. 

2 ozs. butter. 



\ teaspoonful vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



calves' brains. 

duchesse potatoes (No. 556). 



Prepare and cook the brains as above. Shce the brains, put them on a plate, 
and season with salt and pepper. Put the butter into a saucepan, and cook it until 
it is a nut-brown colour. Take the saucepan off the fire, and add the vinegar and 
parsley. Pour this over the brains, and serve at once. 

Average cost : Sheep's brains, 8d. a set ; calf's head, 5s. to 6s. each. Time 
required, 35 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

869. CERVELLES DE VEAU A LA MORNAY (CALF'S BRAINS WITH 

MORNAY SAUCE). 

^ pint Mornay sauce (No. 110). butter. 

Parmesan cheese. seasoning. 

Fill a forcing-bag, with a rose-pipe attached, with duchesse potato, and make 
with it a border on a dish. Put a layer of Mornay sauce inside the border, cook 
the brains, and then slice them, not too thin. Lay these slices on the top of the 
Mornay sauce, cover with more of the sauce, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, 
put some tiny pieces of butter here and there, and bake in the oven a nice colour. 

Average cost of calf's head, 5s. to 6s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 

870. MOCK SWEETBREADS, 
brains (sheep's). | lemon- juice. | vinegar. | flour. | 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. 
Soak the brains in cold, salted water imtil quite white ; remove the outer skin. Tie 
each half -brain in muslin, put them into a saucepan of cold water, add a little vinegar, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Bring to the boil quickly, and cook fast for ten 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 219 

minutes. When cooked, put them into cold water, untie the musHn, and press the 
brains until cold ; then flour them, egg and crumb them, and fry in boiling fat a golden 
colour. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley ; or they can be re warmed in the 
muslin, and served with white sauce. Calf's brains can be cooked in the same way. 
Average cost of sheep's brains, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes after soaking. 
y Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

871. CERVELLES DE VEAU A LA POULETTE (CALF'S BRAINS WITH 

PARSLEY SAUCE). 

2 calves' brains. I 6 or 8 preserved mushrooms. | gill cream. 1 shallot. I seasoning, 
chopped parsley. I J pint white stock. lemon-juice. 1 oz. flour. | 1 oz. butter. 

Soak the brains, and cook them as in previous recipes. Chop the shallots, melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped shallot, and fry it a golden colour ; 
then add the flour, and stir in the stock. Bring to the boil, and simmer for ten to 
fifteen minutes. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Strain into 
a clean saucepan, and add the cream. Slice the mushrooms, and stir them into 
the sauce with some chopped parsley. Cut the brains in slices, and put them into 
the sauce. Toss them in it, taking care not to break the slices. Dish the brains 
on a hot dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost of calf's head, 5s. to 6s. (Calves* brains are not bought separately.) 
Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



872. CERVELLES AUX CHAMPIGNONS. 



4 sheep's brains, 
button mushrooms. 



1 onion. 



^ oz. butter. ^ oz. flour, 



2 eggs. J gill water. 



1 oz. butter. 



cayenne. 

salt. 



Espagnole sauce 
(No. 33). 



Soak the brains in cold water mitil all the blood has been extracted ; remove tho 
skin before putting them to soak. Peel the onion and cut it in shces ; put this, 
with the brains, into a saucepan of cold water, bring to the boil, and cook for five 
or six minutes ; drain, and rub them through a sieve. Melt | oz. of butter in a 
stewpan, stir in | oz. of flour, add the water, and boil until very thick. Add this 
panada to the brains, work in the eggs, season to taste with salt and a pinch of 
cayenne. Mix all thoroughly together. Butter some small timbale moulds, fill them 
with the prepared mixture. Put these into a steamer, cover with a piece of buttered 
paper, and steam for about fifteen minutes. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put 
in the button mushrooms, and toss them in the butter until cooked. When the little 
timbales are done, turn them out on to a hot dish, dress them in a circle, arrange the 
mushrooms in the centre, pour some Espagnole sauce over the timbales, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 timbales. 

873. BEIGNETS DE CERVELLES (BRAIN FRITTERS). 



oalf's or sheep's brains. 
1 tablospoonful oil. 
chopped parsley. 



1 dessertspoonful 

vinegar. 
6 peppercorns. 



frying- batter. 

tomato sauce 

(No. 77). 



vinegar. 

1 small onion. 

pepper and salt. 

Wash and soak the brains in cold water ; remove the skin. Put them into a 
saucepan with the onion, peppercorns, and a little vinegar ; cover with cold water, 
bring to the boil, and cook for ten minutes. Then take up the brains and put them 
in cold water, drain, and cut into slices. Put the oil and vinegar on a plate ; add 
salt and pepper and some chopped parsley. Place the slices of brain in this, and 
let them remain in it for half an hour. Then drain the slices, dip each one int^ 
frying-batter, and fry in hot fat a golden bro\vn. Take them up, drain on paper 
and dish on a folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish Anth fried parsley, and send < | 
table with the sauce: served separately. 

Average cost of sheep's brains, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



220 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2 calves' brains. 
1 oz. breadcrumbs. 



1 dessertspoonful 
chopped parsley. 



874. CROQUETTES DE CERVELLE DE VEAU (CROQUETTES OF 

CALF'S BRAIN). 

1 oz. butter, 2 eggs, pepper. poulette sauce 

lemon-juice, salt. fried parsley. (No. 65). 

Soak and cook the brains in stock for half an hour ; then drain and cool. Chop 
the brains, not too finely ; mix the breadcrumbs and the parsley with them. Melt 
the butter and stir it into the rest of the ingredients. Season to taste with salt, 
popper, and lemon-juice. Lastly, mix in two small eggs. Put this mixture into a 
small saucepan, put it over the fire, and stir imtil the preparation sets. Turn on to 
a plate, and let it get cold. Divide the mixture into equal portions, make them up 
into croquettes, cork shape ; brush them over with beaten egg, toss them in bread- 
crumbs, and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. Drain the croquettes on paper, 
dish up, and garnish with fried parsley, and serve the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 5s to 6s., for one calf's head. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 6 croquettes. 



BCEUF (BEEF) 

875. FILETS DE BCEUF A L'ALGERIENNE (FILETS OF BEEF, 

ALGERIAN FASHION). 



'2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
3 ozs. butter. 



mashed potato. 
3 tomatoes. 



6 artichoke bottoms. 



^ pint Madeira sauce 

(No. 50). 



Cut the fillet of beef into slices, 1| inches thick ; trim them with a cutter into 
-rounds. Season with pepper and salt. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a frying-pan. 
As soon as hot, put in the fillets and fry over a quick fire, in order to cook them a 
nice brown colour. Shape a circular border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress 
the fillets on it, place a slice of tomato that has been tossed in butter between each 
fillet. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan. Cut the artichokes in 
quarters, saute them in the butter until quite hot. Put these in the centre of the 
dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the garnish, and pour the Madeira sauce 
round. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes to cook the fillet. Seasonable 
,at all times. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



876. FILETS DE BCEUF A L'AFRICAINE. 



a little cream, 
breadcrumbs. 



2 ozs. butter. 

3 bananas. 



pepper. 
2 eggs. 



salt, 
flour. 



^ pint horseradish 
sauce (No. 71). 



ai lbs. fillet of beef. 

.^ teaspoonful savoury herbs. 

Remove all sinew and fat from the fillet, chop the meat up finely, season with 
•popper and salt. Put the minced meat into a basin, add the herbs. Beat up one 
egg, add some cream to it, and stir into the meat sufficient to make it into a firm 
paste. Divide tliis mixture into equal parts, shape each portion into round fillets 
about 1 inch thick and 2| inches in diameter. Dredge them lightly with flour 
after shaping. Melt the butter in a frying-pan. As soon as it is hot, put in the 
fillets and fry them quickly on each side. Cut the bananas in halves lengthways, 
then each half in half again crossways, so as to make four pieces of each banana. 
Dip these pieces in flour, then in beaten egg ; toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them 
a golden brown in very hot fat. Dish the fillets on a circle of mashed potato, 
arranged on a hot dish. Garnish the centre with the fried bananas, and pour 
some of the sauce round the base of the dish. The remainder can be sent up in 
a tureen. 

Average cost, Ss Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
,cient for 6 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



221 



877. FILETS DE BOEUF A LA GENOISE. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef, 
beef-marrow. 



meat-glaze. 

3 or 4 large potatoes. 



2 ozs. butter. 

Genoise sauce (No. 99). 



mashed potato, 
chopped parsley. 



Cut the fillet into small rounds | inch thick ; trim and flatten them ; season with 
pepper and salt. Wash and peel the potatoes. Cut out some small marble shapes 
Avith a vegetable-scoop ; blanch them, and then fry in hot fat a golden colour. 
Blanch the marrow. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and fry quickly, so as to 
brown both sides. Take up the fillets, drain, and brush them over with liquid 
meat-glaze. Arrange a border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the fillets on 
it in a circle. Cut the marrow in slices and place one on each fillet. Sauce over 
the fillets with Genoise sauce. Garnish the dish with the fried marble shapes of 
potato, placing some in the centre of the dish, and groups round. Sprinkle them 
•with, chopped parsley, and serve very hot. The remainder of the sauce should be 
sent up to table separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

878. FILETS DE BCEUF AU SAUCE RAIFORT (FILLETS OF BEEF 

WITH HORSERADISH SAUCE). 



8 lbs. fillet of beef, 
mashed potato, 
shredded horse- 
radish. 



1 tablespoonful salad-oil. 
1 teaspoonful vinegar. 
1^ gills brown sauce 
(No. 6). 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
^ teaspoonful chopped tarragon 

and chervil, 
horseradish sauce (No. 71). 



larding bacon, 
pepper, 
salt, 
butter. 



Cut the fillet into rounds, 1 inch thick and 2 inches in diameter, lard them on 
one side with strips of larding-bacon ; season with pepper and salt ; lay in a dish, 
pour over them the oil and vinegar, and sprinkle with the chopped herbs. Let 
t hem stay in this for about one hour, turning them over occasionally. At the end 
of that time lift them out of the marinade and dry in a cloth. Melt some butter 
in a frying-pan, and fry the unlarded side of the fillets quickly for about four 
minutes. Then put them on a buttered baking-tin, and place in the oven for about 
six minutes, to fmish the cooking. Make a circular border of mashed potato on a 
hot dish, dress the fillets round, overlapping each other, put a thick horseradish 
sauce in the centre, and pour the brown sauce round. Garnish each fillet with a 
Uttle shredded horseradish. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 33. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 



879. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA POLONAISE. 



1^ lbs. fillet of beef, 
salt and pepper. 
2 ozs. butter. 



a little flour. 
J gill cream. 
1 egg- 



1 teaspoonful chopped 

parsley, 
button mushrooms. 



^ pint demi-glace sauce 

(No. 29). 
mashed potato. 



Remove all the sinews and fat from the fillet of beef ; chop it finely. Put the 
meat into a basin, season with salt and pepper, add the teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Beat up the egg, add the cream to it, and stir in as much as is necessary 
to bind the ingredients together. Divide this mixture into small equal portions 
shape each part into a round, flat cake, the shape of a fillet, about 1 inch thick and 
2| inches in diameter. Sprinkle them with a little flour. Melt the butter in a 
frying-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them a nice brown on both sides. Cook the 
button mushrooms in butter. Shape a circular border of mashed potato on a hot 
entree-dish ; dress the fillets on this. Arrange the button mushrooms in the centre, 
and pour some of the sauce round the dish. The remainder of the sauce can be sent 
up separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



222 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



880. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA TOREADOR. 



IJ lbs. fillet of beef. 
1 oz. butter. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). 
oil. 



12 fresh mushrooms. 
Spanish pimientos. 

Cut the fillet in slices, \ inch thick ; shape into rounds, 1| inches across. Grill 
the fillets over a clear fire, taking care that they are underdone. Peel the mush- 
rooms. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the mushrooms and cook them. 
Put some oil into a steA\^an, and saute the pimientos. Dish the fillets on a hot 
dish, garnish them with the mushrooms and pimientos, and serve with them 
separately the tomato sauce. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

881. FILETS DE BCEUF AUX TRUFFLES. 



1 lb. fillet of beef. 

2 ozs. butter. 



pepper. 

^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



J gill sherry, 
salt. 



truffles, 
mashed potato. 

Trim the fillet, cut it into rounds. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and fry the 
fillets quickly on each side. Heat the brown sauce, add the wine to it, and simmer 
for ten minutes. Dish the fillets straight down a dish on mashed potato, pour 
the sauce round, place a nice slice of truffle on each fillet, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

882. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA BOURGEOISE. 



young turnips. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2 lbs. fillet of young carrots. demi -glace sauce (No. 29). 

beef. button onions. J pint cooked green peas. 

Cut the fillet into slices, 1| inches thick ; shape with a cutter into rounds. Melt 
the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them quickly over a brisk fire. 
Brown them nicely on each side. Cut the carrots and turnips into nice pieces, 
parboil, then braise and glaze them. Do this also with the onions. Dish the- 
fillets in a circle on a hot dish. Pour the sauce round. Arrange the carrots, turnips, 
and onions in groups round the dish, and place the cooked peas in the centre. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the summer 
months. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



883. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA MIRABEAU. 



2 lbs. fillet beef, 
filleted anchovies. 



2 ozs. butter. 
8 stoned olives. 



julienne potatoes, 
tarragon leaves. 



Madeira sauce 

(No. 50). 



Cut the fillet into slices, 1| inches thick ; trim into rounds all the same size. 
Melt the butter in a saute-pan. Fry the fillets quickly over a brisk fire, brown 
nicely on each side. Take up the fillets, and garnish each one with strips of anchovy 
fillets laid across the fillet in the form of a lattice. Blanch the tarragon-leaves, and 
arrange these round the edge of each fillet to form a crown. Place a stoned olive 
in the centre of each. Dish the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour a httle of the 
?auce round, and garnish with julienne potatoes (these are cut in strips the shape 
of matches, and fried in boiling fat a golden colour). The remainder of the sauce 
is sent up separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



884. 

2 lbs. fillet of beef, 
chopped parsley. 



FILETS DE BCEUF A LA TYROLIENNE. 

4 tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful Bovril. 

1 onion. 1 gill poivrade sauce (No. 58). 



seasonmg. 
butter. 



Cut the fillet into even-sized slices, 1| inches thick ; trim them into rounds. 
Fry them in a saute-pan in butter over a quick fire until a nice brown. Chop the 
ooion, and cook it in butter over a slow fire. Peel the tomatoes, cut each in half. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



223 



and saute them in butter. Add the sauce and Bovril to the onion, season, and add 
some chopped parsley. Let all simmer together for five minutes. Dish the fillets 
in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce over the fillets, and garnish with the 
tomatoes. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2 lbs. fillet of 


1 truffle. 


8 small potatoes. 


2 ozs. Parmesan 


8 fried croutes 


beef. 


1 carrot. 


1 oz. breadcrumbs. 


cheese. 


2 ozs. butter. 


larding bacon. 


1 onion. 


1 gill brown sauce 


10 peppercorns. 


3 gills stock. 


1 glass sherry. 


1 turnip. 


(No. 6). 


1 bouquet garni. 


2 yolks of eggs 



885. FILETS DE BCEUF PIQUE A LA BRILLAT (LARDED FILLETS 

OF BEEF, BRILLAT STYLE). 

4 tomatoes. 
4 shallots, 
glaze, 
seasoning. 

Cut the fillet into sfices, I inch thick ; shape into rounds with a cutter ; lard each 
fillet with strips of bacon and truffle. Melt some butter in a stewpan, put in the 
fillets, season them with pepper and salt. Cut the carrot, onion, and turnip into 
slices. Put the vegetables with the fillets, add the bouquet garni, the peppercorns, 
and trimmings of bacon. Place the stovrpan on the fire, and fry the fillets hghtly 
on botii sides. Then add the glass. of i^herry and 3 gills of stock, cover with a 
buttered paper and the lid of the stewpan, and braise over the fire or in the oven 
for about fifteen minutes. Take up the fillets, and keep hot. Remove the fat 
from the cooking liquor, stir in the brown sauce, simmer for ten minutes, and then 
strain. Peel the potatoes, cut a piece off the end of each, so as to make them stand ; 
then with a cutter scoop out the centre. Chop the shallots finely. Melt 1 oz. of 
butter in a saucepan ; fry the shallots, without browning ; then add the grated 
Parmesan cheese, the breadcrumbs, and tho yolks of the eggs. Season with pepper 
and salt. Fry the potatoes in hot fat a golden brown, drain them, and stuff ^vith 
the prepared mixture. Cut the tomatoes in halves, and cook them slightly in 
butter. Dish up the fillets, placing each on a fried croute of bread, the same size 
as the fillet. Glaze the meat with the meat-glaze, garnish round the dish with the 
stuffed potatoes, and the half-tomatoes, arranging them alternately. Serve the 
sauce separately in a tureen. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



886. FILETS DE BCEUF AUX NOUILLES (FILLETS OF BEEF 

WITH NOUILLES). 



2 lbs. fillet of beef, 
larding bacon. 
^ gill white wine, 
button mushrooms. 



raw ham. 
truffles. 
^ onion. 



J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

button onions.- _ , ._ . 

1 dessertspoonful grated '^horse- 
radish. 



1 gill stock. 
1 oz. butter. 
- meat-glaze, 
seasoning. 



J carrot. 

Cut the fillet into slices, and then into romids ; lard these with larding bacon, 
truffle, and ham cut in strips. Slice the carrot and onion, place these in a stew- 
pan ; arrange the fillets on them ; cover with slices of fat bacon ; add seasoning, the 
wine and stock. Cover Avith a buttered paper and mth the lid of the ste^^^^an. 
Cook over the fire for about twenty minutes. Take up the fillets and drain them. 
Add I pint of Espagnole sauce and the horseradish to the cooking liquor in the pan ; 
let it reduce, then strain it into a small stewpan. Skim off any fat there may be on 
it ; add the butter, bit by bit ; keep hot, but do not let it boil again. Dish up the 
fillets and glaze them. Garnish with groups of nouilles (No. 890) the cooked 
button-mushrooms, and onions. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

PT. ni. 15 



224 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



887. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA VIENNOISE. 



1| lbs. lean beef. 
J gill cream. 



a little onion, 
seasoning. 



butter. j brown sauce (No. 6). 

tomatoes. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). 



Cut the meat into small pieces, and pass it through a mincing-machine. Chop a 
small piece of onion very finely. Melt some butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, 
and fry it a light brown. Add the meat to it, mix well ; season with pepper and 
salt. Take the stewpan off the fire, whip the cream, and bind the meat with it. 
Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. AVhen cold and set, divide the preparation 
into equal portions ; make each into flat cakes, the same shape as a fillet of beef. 
Dredge them lightly with a Httle flour, and fry them a nice colour in butter. Cut 
the tomatoes in slices ; cook slightly in butter, taking care that they keep to their 
shape. Dish the fillets in a straight row down the centre of a dish on a flat bed of 
potato, sauce over the fillets with the brown sauce, arrange the tomatoes down 
each side of the fillets on the potato, so as to keep it out of the sauce, place a pat of 
the maitre d'hotel butter on each fillet, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 89. — Filets de Bcexjp 1 la Viennoise. 



888. MIGNONS DE FILET DE BCEUF AUX GOURMETS (SMALL FILLETS OF 

BEEF, GOURMET STYLE). 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
2 or 3 shallots. 



J lb. fresh mushrooms. 

i pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



^ gill white wine, 
butter. 



salt. 
pepper. 



Cut the fillet into slices 1 inch thick, trim into small rounds, and fry them in 
butter in a saute-pan. Chop the shallots, peel the mushrooms, cook eight or ten of 
them whole in butter, chop the remainder. Cook the chopped shallots in butter, 
brown them slightly, then add the chopped mushrooms, also the wine, and cook 
until this is reduced to half, then add the sauce ; let it simmer for ten minutes, 
skim, and season to taste. Dish the fillets, pour over them the above sauce. Place 
a cooked whole mushroom on the top of each, sprinkle with a pinch of chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 225 

889. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA ROYALE (FILLETS OF BEEF, ROYAL STYLE). 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 

foie-gras. 



2 gills Mornay sauce (No. 110). grated cheese. 

breadcrumbs. 



butter, 
seasoning. 



1 gill Soubise sauce (No. 75). 

Cut the fillet into slices 1 inch thick, trim into rounds, cook these in butter in a 
saute-pan, leaving them imderdone ; take them up when cooked, and season with 
pepper and salt. Cut the foie-gras into slices, one for each fillet ; season with pepper 
and salt, dredge with flour, and fry a Httle ; place one of these on each fillet. Mix 
the Mornay and Soubise sauces together, make hot, and pour it over the fillets ; 
sprinkle over grated cheese and a few breadcrumbs ; put here and there a bit oi 
butter, and bake in a sharp oven until coloured. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

890. NOUILLE PASTE. 

J lb. flour. I 1 egg. ( f oz. butter. | pinch of salt. ( a little water. 
Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, add the salt and egg. Mix well 
together, add a little water, and mix to a stiff paste. Turn this on to a board, and 
knead for fifteen minutes. Roll out the paste very thinly, cut it into lengths 
2^ inches to 3 inches wide ; cut the pieces into narrow strips, throw them into salted 
boiling water, and cook for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain them and 
use as directed. 

891. FILETS DE BCEUF AUX BANANES (FILLETS OF BEEF WITH BANANAS). 



li lbs. fillet of beef. 


2 yolks of eggs. 


2 ozs. butter. 


2 bananas. 


1 egg 


chopped parsley. 


mashed potato. 


1 gill cream. 


1 shallot. 


flour. 


demi -glace sauce (No. 29). 


breadcrumbs. 


horseradish. 


pepper. 


salt. 



Cut the fillet into slices | inch thick, shape into rounds with a cutter. Melt the 
butter in a frying-pan, fry the fillets quickly on both sides, take them up, and keep 
hot. Chop the shallot finely, fry it in the butter the fillets were fried in, without 
letting it bro\vn. Grate a large tablespoonful of horseradish, also shred a Uttlo for 
decoration. Add the cream to the shallot ; let it get hot, but do not boil ; then add the 
egg-yolks ; stir until thick ; season the sauce with a little salt and pepper, then rub 
it through a fine strainer ; stir in the grated horseradish, put the sauce into a small 
stewpan, and keep hot. Peel the bananas, cut each in half lengthways, and then each 
half in half cross ways ; dip each piece in flour, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry 
a golden bro\^Ti in hot fat. Make a flat bed of potato straight do\vn a hot dish, 
dish the fillets down the centre, coat each with the sauce, place the bananas each side 
of the fillets (the bed of potato should be broad enough to take the three rows), 
and pour some demi-glace sauce round. Garnish the fillets with a little of the 
shredded horseradish and a pinch of chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, | hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



li lbs. fillet of beef. 

^ lb. tomatoes. 



892. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA POMPADOUR. 

maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). j 2 ozs. butter. 
^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). | seasoning. 

Cut the fillets in rounds about 1 inch thick, trim off the fat, and fry them quickly 
in the butter. Cut the tomatoes in slices, butter a baking-sheet, lay the slices on it, 
season with pepper and salt, and cook them in the oven for two or three minutes. 
Make a flat bed of mashed potato straight down a dish, arrange the fillets down the 
centre, overlapping each other, put a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on each, and arrange 
the tomato slices down each side of the fillets. Pour a little sauce roimd, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

15—2 



226 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

893. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA BRISSE. 

IJ lbs. fillet of beef. | 2 lbs. turnips. | 3 ozs. butter. ( \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | 1 truffle. 
Cut the fillet into small rounds about \ inch thick, trim them, removing all gristle, 
and skin. Melt 1| ozs. of butter in a saMte-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them 
quickly over a brisk fire ; cook them so that they are underdone. Have the turnips 
ready boiled, drain and mash them. Melt the remainder of the butter in a saucepan, 
put in the mashed turnips, mix well, and season to taste with pepper and salt. 
Warm up the sauce, and cut the truffle in slices. Arrange the mashed turnip on a 
hot dish in the form of a circular border, dish the fillets on this, brush them over 
with meat-glaze, garnish each fillet with a slice of truffle, pour a Uttle of the sauce 
round the base of the dish, and send the rest to table separately. Serve very hot. 
Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 fillets. 

894. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA ST. GERMAIN. 

IJ lbs. fillet of beef. I 1 tablespoonful cream. | Madeira sauce (No. 50). pepper. I salt.; 

3 ozs. butter. i mashed potatoes. I meat-glaze (No. 247). truffle. I peas. 

Cut the fillet into eight rounds i inch thick, flatten slightly and trim, freeing them 
from all skin and gristle ; season with salt and pepper. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a 
saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them quickly on each side. Have ready | pint 
of cooked peas ; rub these through a sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a ste\vpan, put 
in the puree of peas, make it hot in the butter, season to taste, and add the cream. 
Arrange a border of mashed potato on a hot dish, dress the fillets on it in a circular 
row, brush over with meat-glaze, place a slice of truffle on each fillet, fill the centre 
of dish with the puree of peas, pour some Madeira sauce round the base of the dish, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



895. TOURNEDOS A LA BORDELAISE. 



\\ lbs. fillet of beef. I beef -marrow. 

8 croiites of fried bread. ' Bordelaise sauce (No. 11). 



butter, 
vegetables. 



Cut the fillet into small romids 1 inch thick, fry them quickly in butter, and place 
a tournedos on each croute of bread. Dish the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, 
arrange a suitable vegetable in the centre, and place on each fillet a slice of poached 
marrow. Send to table at once with a Bordelaise sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4- persons. 

896. TOURNEDOS A LA CASTILLANE. 



\\ lbs. fillet of beef. 
French beans. 



8 croutes fried 
bread. 



4 tomatoes. | short pastry, 
butter. I seasoning. 



Line some small tartlet' pans with short pastry, fill them with raw rice, and bake 
in a moderate oven a pale brown. When cooked, let cool, then remove the rice care- 
fully. Peel the tomatoes, press out the seeds, and chop the tomatoes coarsely. 
Melt some butter in a saucepan, put in the tomatoes and cook them, season with 
pepper and salt, and fill the tartlet crusts. Cut the fillets into small rounds, season, 
and fry them in butter on both sides. Prepare and cook the beans, toss them in 
butter. Place a tournedos on each fried croute of bread, dish in a circle on a hot 
dish, place a tartlet crust garnished with the tomato on each tournedos, fill the 
centre of the dish with the French beans, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. iSeasonable in the summer, 
©ufl&cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



227 



897. FILETS DE BCEUF A LA ROSSINL 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
2 ozs. butter. 



8 croutons of fried bread. I foie-gras. truffle, 

demi-glace sauce (No. 23). I seasoning. flour. 

Trim the fillet, cut it in slices about | inch thick, shape into eight rounds ; 0001: 
these in butter, in a saute-pan, over a quick fire, leaving them underdone. Cut the 
foie-gras in rounds a little smaller than the fillets, dredge these with flour, season 
with salt and pepper, and cook in butter. Set the fillets on the round croutes of 
fried bread, which should be cut to the same size as the fillets ; place a slice of foie- 
gras on each piece of meat, and on the foie-gras a slice of truffle. Arrange on a diah, 
and serve with the demi-glace sauce. 

Average cost, 53. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 




FxG. 40. — Filets de Bceuf 1 la Kossini. 



898. TOURNEDOS A LA BEARNAISE. 



1| lbs. fillet of beef, 
butter. 



8 croutes of fried bread, 
julienne potatoes. 



Bearnaiso sauce 
meat-glaze. (No. 7). 

Cut the fillet into rounds 1| inches thick. Melt some butter in a saute-pan, 
and fry the fillets in it quickly. When sufficiently cooked, take them up and place 
each fillet on a round fried croute of bread the same size as the fillet ; brush them 
over with meat-glaze. Dish the toumedos in a circle on a hot dish, put the sauce 
in the centre, and garnish round with the julienne potatoes. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



899. 

IJ lbs. fillet of beef. 

8 fried croutes. 

8 artichoke bottoms. 

Cut the fillet into slices ^ 



TOURNEDOS A LA CHORON. 



seasoning. 

butter. 

Parisian potatoes. 



asparagus heads. 

1 gill Bearnaise sauce. 

1 tablespoonful tomato sauce. 

_ inch thick, stamp out eight rounds 2 inches in diameter, 
season with pepper and salt". Melt some butter in a saute-pan, put in the tournedos, 
and fry them quickly on both sides, taking care not to fry them too long ; they 
should be underdone. Place them, when done, on the fried croutes cut to the 
same size as the tournedos. Make the Bearnaise sauce, mix with it the tomato 



^ 



228 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

puree, put a bofder of this sauce round the top of each tournados ; in the centre of 
each put a small artichoke-bottom ; fill these with cooked asparagus-heads tossed 
in butter. Dish up the tournedos in a circle, and arrange the potatoes in the centre 
and round. For the Parisian potatoes, wash and peel as many potatoes as are 
required, and with a vegetable scoop cut out some rounds ; fry these in butter, and 
use, as directed. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable February to Juno. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1^ lbs. tillet of beef. 
8 artichoke bottoms. 



salt and pepper. I \ lb. onions. I trafBe. 

1 tablespoonful cream. I meat-glaze, i butter. 



900. TOURNEDOS CENDRILLON. 

1 gill thick Bechamel 
sauce (No. 4). 

Cut the fillet into slices \ inch thick, stamp out some rounds mth a cutter 2 inches 
across ; season the tournedos with salt and pepper, and fry them quickly in butter 
on each side mitil a nice brown colour. Chop the onions finely, cook them in boiling 
water for five minutes, then steAv them in butter without browning ; add to them the 
Bechamel sauce, season with pepper and salt, and cook gently for ten minutes ; 
rub through a tammy or fine strainer, add the cream and a little butter. Put some 
of this puree on each artichoke bottom, and put them into the oven to glaze. As 
soon as these are ready and the fillets are fried, proceed to dish up ; place a fillet on 
each artichoke bottom. Garnish each tournedos with a nice slice of truffle, and 
brush over with liquid meat-glaze. Dish the tournedos in a circle on a hot dish, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



901. TOURNEDOS A LA DREXEL. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. I 2 or 3 tomatoes. 

8 crovitons fried bread. | Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 



truffle. 

straw potatoes. 



2 OZ3. butter, 
seasoning. 



Cut the fillet in slices 1 inch thick, trim into small rounds with a cutter. Melt 
the butter in a saute-pan, fry the tournedos quickly and broAvn them nicely, season 
with pepper and salt, and dress each on a round crouton of bread, cut the same size 
as the fillet, and fried. On this place a thin sHce of tomato that has been slightly 
cooked in butter ; in the centre of the tomato place a teaspoonful of thick Bearnaise 
sauce ; on that, again, arrange a slice of truffle. Cut the potatoes in strips, and fry 
them a golden brown in boihng fat ; arrange these romid the tournedos, and serve 
hot. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

902. TOURNEDOS DE BCEUF A LA GABRIELLE (FILLETS OF BEEF, 

GABRIEL STYLE). 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 



straw potatoes. 



puff paste. I butter. 



cooked peas. 1 truffle. ! seasoning. 



J lb. chicken forcemeat 
(No. 202). 

Cut the fillet into slices 1 inch thick ; shape these into rounds ; trim them, taking 
away fat and gristle. Melt some butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the fillets, 
and fry them quickly over a brisk fire ; let them be underdone. Cover one side of 
each fillet with the chicken forcemeat, grease a baking-sheet, place the fillets on it, 
cover Avith a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Prepare some 
puff pastry, cut it out in rounds, and bake ; dress one of the fillets on each round of 
pastry. Place a slice of truffle on each fillet, and dish them in a circle on a hot dish. 
Toss the peas in butter, put them in the centre of the fillet, and garnish round 
with the straw potatoes. The sauce should be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable when peas are 
in season. Sufficient for 5 persons. 




X 

Q 

O 

c 

O 

H 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



229 



903. TOURNEDOS A L'EMPEREUR. 



2 lbs. fillet of 

beef. 
2 ozs. butter. 



6 ozs. veal (raw). 

8 mushrooms. 

1 egg, hard-boiled. 



1 egg. 

8 croutons. 



J gill cream. 3 ozs. ham. 

Espagnolo sauce 1 shallot. 

(No. 33). 1 trufile. 

Cut the fillet into slices, and then into eight rounds ; season these with pepper 
and salt, fry them in butter on one side only, take them up, and let cool. Chop 
the sliallo'. L'lshrooms, and ham ; fry the shallot in the butter the fillets were 
fried in, the. - I the mushrooms and the ham ; cook all together for a few minutes, 
and mix in a little of the sauce. Pomid the veal in a mortar, add to it the above (, 
preparation, mix well together, add the egg, pound again, and then rub the mixture 
through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, whip the cream slightly, and add 
it to the farce. Now season the raw sides of the fillets, and cover the surface with 
the puree, shaping it into a dome with a knife. Slice the truffle, and cut out eight 




Fig. 41. — Tournedos a l'Empereur, 



rounds I inch in diameter with a cutter ; stamp out eight crescent-shaped pieces of 
white of the hard-boiled egg for each fillet, put a slice of truffle on the top of each 
fillet, arrange the crescents of egg round the truffle to represent a windmill. Butter 
a baking-tin, place the fillets on it, cover them with a greased paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes. Cut the croutons of bread the same size as the 
fillets, and fry them crisp. Place a fillet on each crouton, dish on a hot dish, and 
garnish with a suitable vegetable. Send the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 



904. TOURNEDOS A LA MORNAY. 



1| lbs. fillet of beef. 
4 tomatoes (small). 



8 stuffed olives. 
8 anchovy fillets. 



butter. 



Cut the fillets in slices | inch thick 



J pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 
\ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

cut from these some small rounds with a 
cutter IJ inches in diameter ; season them with salt and pepper, and fry in butter 
quickly, keeping them underdone. Cut the tomatoes in halves, butter a baking-tin, 
put the tomatoes on it, season with pepper and salt, place a bit of butter on each, 
and bake in the oven for a few minutes, but do not let them get too soft, or the\^ will 
lose their shape. Place a fillet on eaoh half-tomato, coat the fillets with Mornay 



230 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



sauce, and put them in a hot oven to glaze quickly. In the middle of each toumedos 
set a large stuffed and poached ohve ; encircle each olive with a fillet of anchovy. 
Dish up the toumedos in a circle on a hot dish, pour some bro^vn sauce roimd. If 
liked, any suitable vegetable can be placed in the centre. The dish is now ready to 
serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufl&- 
cient for 8 persons. 



905. TOURNEDOS A LA MIREILLE. 



U lbs. fillet of 

beef. 
3 ozs. butter. 



3 ozs. chou paste. 
3 or 4 tomatoes. 
1 yolk of egg. 



tomato sauce 
(No. 77). 



breadcrumbs. seasoning. 

J lb. potato. J lb. rice. 

1 pint stock. 1 egg. ^ onion. 

Cut the fillet into slices 1 inch thick, then with a round cutter cut out some 
small rounds ; fry these in 1 oz. of butter quickly. Pass the potato through a fine 
sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the potato, add the yolk, and season 
to taste. Mix the chou paste with this. Fill some small greased dariole moulds 
Avith this mixture ; press it well in. Dip the moulds into warm water, turn out, 
egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a golden brown. Scoop out the centre of each 
shape carefully, and keep hot. Chop the onion, melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, 
fry the onion. Then add the rice, fry for a few minutes. Then pour in the stock, 
and bring to the boil. Cook imtil the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock. 
Fill some little dariole moulds mth this in the same way as the potato shapes. 
Turn them out, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Cut the tomatoes in halves, 
press out the seeds, and then cut them in dice. Saute these in butter, and fill the 
potato shapes with it. As soon as the toumedos are cooked, dress them on a hot 
dish, and put the timbales of rice and the potato shapes round alternately. Send 
some well-made tomato sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



906. TOURNEDOS MARIE LOUISE. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef, 
butter. 



8 croutes fried bread. 
8 artichoke bottoms. 



J lb. mushrooms. 



8 glazed button onions, 
demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



chopped parsley. 

Cut the fillets into slices, f inch thick ; cut out some rounds vnth. a cutter, about 
2 inches in diameter ; season these with salt and pepper, and fry quickly in butter 
a nice brown, taking care to have them underdone. Stamp out some rounds of 
bread the same size as the fillets ; fry them a golden brown in butter. Dish a fried 
fillet on each croute. Stew the artichokes in butter, and set one on each fillet. 
Chop the mushrooms very finely ; melt a Httle butter in a steA\^an, put in the 
mushrooms, and cook them. Fill the artichokes with this, piling it up as high as 
possible. Place on the top of each a small glazed button onion, sprinkle over a 
little parsley and serve. The demi-glace sauce is sent up to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- / 
cient for 8 persons. 

907. TOURNEDOS A LA FLORENTINE. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
2 lbs. cooked spinach. 
2 tablespoonfuls cream. 



\ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
salt and pepper, 
florador croquettes. 



4 ozs. butter. 

1 whole egg. 

2 yolks. 

Cut the fillet of beef into slices, trim into rounds, and free them from fat and 
gristle. After the spinach is cooked, chop it finely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the spinach, and dry it over the fire ; then add the well-reduced Bechamel 
sauce, the cream, and the eggs. Season to taste. Melt some butter in a frying- 
pan, and, when hot, take a tablespoonful of the spinach and drop it into the butter. 
Continue to do this until you have sufficient spinach cakes. Do not let them touch 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 231 

.each other in the pan. When cooked on one side, turn over carefully with a knife. 
When done, lift them on to a hot dish. Fry the fillets quickly in butter, season them, 
and dress one on each spinach cake. Make the florador croquettes the size of 
walnuts, fry them, and fill the centre of the dish with them. Send Madeira sauce to 
^;able separately. 

FLORADOR CROQUETTES. 

1 lb. florador. | 1 pint milk. | 3 eggs. | 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. | 1 oz. butter. | seasoning. 
Put the milk and butter into a saucepan over the fire. When it boils, stir in the 
florador. Cook slowly for ten minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Add the 
yolks of eggs and the cheese, mix well, turn on to a plate to cool. Cut into equal f 
quantities ; shape into croquettes, round or cork shapes, the size of a walnut ; dip 
them in the whites of the eggs, slightly beaten ; toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in 
hot fat. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 to 10 persons. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
4 or 5 tomatoes. 



908. TOURNEDOS A LA NICOISE. 

y 

2 or 3 potatoes (raw). butter. 

French beans. demi-glace sauce (No. 23). 

Cut the fillet into 1-inch sUces, shape into rounds, trim and season them. Divide 
the tomatoes in halves, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and cook in the oven. 
Do not let them get too soft, so as to break. Cut the potatoes in large dice, cook 
them in butter. Fry the fillets in butter quickly, so as to brown them nicely. 
Dress the fillets, one on each half-tomato. Dish them in a circle. Surround with 
groups of French beans, tossed in butter, and the potatoes ; these two garnishes 
are to be placed alternately. The sauce to be sent up separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable July to October. 
Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



10 croutes of fried bread. 
2 ozs. butter. 



i pint Perigueux sauce 
(No. 62). 



909. TOURNEDOS A LA STRASBOURGEOISE (FILLETS OF BEEF 

WITH FOIE-GRAS). 

2 lbs. fillet of beef. I salt. 

1 small terrine of foie-gras. ' pepper. 

Cut the fillet into slices, 1 inch thick, then shape into rounds ; trim away all 
fat and gristle. With a sharp laiife, make a small horizontal incision ; then pass 
the knife round, so as to make a pocket. Rub the foie-gras through a fine sieve, 
and fill the toumedos with it by means of a forcing-bag with pipe attached. Season 
them with salt and pepper, and fry in butter over a quick fire. Place each fillet, 
when cooked, on a croute of fried bread the same size. Dish them in a circle, and 
send the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



910. TOURNEDOS A LA DUCHESSE. 
IJ lbs. fillet of beef. duchesse potatoes (No. 556). 



Madeira sauce (No. 50). 



8 croutes bread. 



seasoning, 
butter. 



Cut the fillet into rounds, 1 inch thick, season them, and fry in butter over a 
''quick fire. When cooked, place each fillet on a fried croute of bread, cut the 
same size. Dish them in a circle, pour the sauce over, and garnish Avith the 
potatoes. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons 



232 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



jMadeira sauce (No. 50). 
8 French plums. 



\ pint stock, 
butter. 



911. TOURNEDOS DE BCEUF AUX PRUNES. 

2 lbs. fillet of beef, j 8 croutes fried bread, 
foie-gras. I Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). 

Cut the fillet of beef into slices, trim into small rounds. Melt the butter in a 
Baute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them quickly over a brisk fire. Cook the 
plums in stock until the stones can be easily removed. Pass the foie-gras througli 
a sieve, and stuff the plums with the puree. Put these into a little melted butter 
in a saucepan to keep hot over a slow fire. Dish the fillets, one on each croute of 
bread, round the edge of the fillet ; put a thread of Bearnaise sauce, and in the 
centre of the fillet one of the prepared plums. Pour a little Madeira sauce round the 
dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

912. TOURNEDOS A LA CHASSEUR. 

\\ lbs. fillet of beef. | 1^ ozs. butter. | 1 glass white wine. | ^ pint chasseur sauce (No. 19). 

Cut the fillet into slices, and then into rounds ; fry them in butter quickly over 
a brisk fire. Dish the fillets in a circle on a hot dish. Drain away the butter from 
the pan, put in the wine, reduce, and then add the sauce. Let it simmer for ten 
minutes. Pour over the fillets, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s, Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



IJ lbs. fillet of 

beef. 
1 cucumber. 



913. TOURNEDOS A LA SARDE. 

truffle. 



\ lb. rice, 
butter. 



I onion. 
1 egg. 
seasoning. 



3 tomatoes. I mushroom stalks. 
1 pint stock. brown sauce (No. 6). 

breadcrumbs. I chopped parsley. 

Cut the fillet into |-inch slices, cut these into rounds, fry them quickly in butter. 
Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, put in the rice, and stir a few minutes ; then add 
the stock, and boil until the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock. Season to 
taste. Turn the rice on to a plate, and let it cool. Make up into flat cakes or 
croutes the size of the fillet, egg and breadcrumb, and fry them in hot fat. Peel 
the cucumber and cut it in lengths 1| inches, hollow out some of the centre, blanch 
them, and then braise over vegetables and stock until tender. Cut the tomatoes 
in halves, scoop out some of the centre, cook in the oven without breaking them. 
Chop the onion, fry it in a little butter ; add the chopped mushrooms, parsley, 
seasoning, and sufficient brown sauce to bind. Stuff the cucumbers and tomatoes 
with this. Place each fillet on a rice croquette, arrange in a circle on a hot dish, 
place a slice of truffle on each fillet, and garnish round with the cucumber and 
tomatoes alternately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable February to 
October. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



914. TOURNEDOS A LA MIKADO. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
4 tomatoes. 



fried artichokes, 
seasoning. 



( 



( 



2 ozs. butter. 

]\Iadeira sauce (No. 50). 

Cut the fillet into slices, and then into rounds. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, 
put in the toiirnedos, and cook quickly over a brisk fire. Cut the tomatoes in halves, 
press out the seeds, season and grill them. Slice some Jerusalem artichokes into 
very thin rounds, fry them in boiling fat until brown. Dress the fillets, one on each 
half-tomato, in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and arrange the fried 
artichokes in the centre. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April for the artichokes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 



233 



915. TOURNEDOS A LA NESSELRODE (TOURNEDOS WITH 

CHESTNUTS). 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
1 lb. chestnuts. 



butter, 
seasoninsr. 



potato chips. stock. 

demi-glace sauce (No. 29). truffle. 

Slit the chestnuts, put them on a baking-sheet and place in the oven until they 
are baked enough to remove the outer shell and the inner skin. When this is done, 
put the chestnuts into a saucepan, cover them Avith good stock, and boil until 
tender ; drain, and pass them though a fine wire sieve. Melt some butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the chestnuts, season to taste, and add enough broAvn sauce to bind 
the mixture. Turn the preparation on to a plate, and let it cool. Cut the fillet 
into slices, trim into rounds, and fry them miderdone in butter over a brisk fire. 
Take up the fillets when done, put a layer of the chestnut puree on each fillet, 
shape neatly, and place a sliee of truffle on the top of each. Put the dish in the 
oven for a few minutes to get thorouglily hot. Pour some demi-glace round the 
dish, and arrange the potato chips in the centre. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable October to 
February. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



916. TOURNEDOS A LA PARMENTIER. 



^ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
1 tablespoonful grated horse- 
radish. 



1 lb. cooked potatoes. 

2 yolks of eggs, 
breadcrumbs. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 whole egg. 
seasoning. 



1^ lbs. fillet of beef. 
8 fresh mushrooms. 
2 cooking apples. 

Cut the fillet into eight rounds, f inch thick and 1| inches in diameter, trim, 
and season them with salt and pepper. Fry the fillets in butter over a quick fire 
on both sides, taking care to have them imderdone. Rub the potatoes through a 
wire sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the potato, mix well ; then add 
two yolks of eggs and the grated horseradish. Season to taste. Stir until it is 
thoroughly hot and well mixed ; then turn on to a plate, and let the preparation 
cool. Make this mixture up into eight flat cakes, the same size as the fillets, and 
the same thickness. Beat an egg on a plate, dip the potato shapes into it, toss in 
breadcrumbs, and fry them in very hot fat. Trim the mushrooms, remove the 
stalks, and cook them in the butter the fillets were cooked in. Make a batter with 
some flour and milk ; this should be the consistency of cream. Peel the apples and 
cut them into slices, one for each fillet, take out the core with a round cutter, dip 
these sUces into the batter, and drop them into hot fat ; fry a golden brown. Arrange 
the potato shapes on a dish, place a fillet on each ; on the fillet put a slice of fried 
apple, and on that a mushroom. Chop a little parsley, and place a pinch on each 
mushroom. Serve hot, with the sauce sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

917. TOURNEDOS VILLENEUVE. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 


3 ozs. butter. 


J oz. flour. 


Madeira sauce 


legg. 


i lb. chicken or veal. 


I gill cream. 


J gill stock. 


(No. 50). 


salt. 


slices of tongue. 


breadcrumbs. 


mushrooms. 


truffle. 


pepper 



Cut up the chicken into small pieces, removing skin and sinews. Melt 1 oz. of 
butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until thick. 
Mince the chicken-meat finely, and stir it into the sauce. Add pepper, salt, and a 
little cream. Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Divide this preparation into 
equal parts, shape them into fiat cakes, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in hot 
fat or butter. Stew the mushrooms in butter, add the remainder of the cream to 
them, season with pepper and salt, and cook until tender. Melt 2 ozs. of butter 
in a saute-pan. Cut the fillet into rounds the same size as the croquettes of chicken- ( 
meat, trim and flatten them, fry them quickly in the melted butter on each side. 
Out the tongue in rounds a size smaller than the fillet, warm them up in the same 
butter with the fillets. When ready to serve, arrange the croquettes of chickeix 



234 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

in a circle on a hot dish, place a fillet on the top of each, and on the fillet a slice of 
tongue. Place in the centre of the tongue a slice of truffle. In the centre of the 
dish put the cooked mushrooms. Send the sauce separately to table. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

918. TOURNEDOS A LA RACHEL. 

Bordelaise sauce (No. 11). 
8 slices poached marrow. 

Cut the fillet into rounds, fry them in butter quickly over a brisk fire ; dress 
them on the fried croutes of bread, which should be the same size as the fillets and 
\ inch thick. On each tournedos place a small artichoke bottom ; season them, 
and on each set a sUce of poached beef-marrow. Dish the tournedos on a hot dish, 
and send Bordelaise sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
8 fried crofttes. 



2 ozs. butter. 

8 artichoke bottoms. 



11 lbs. fillet of beef. 
8 mushroom heads. 
8 small button onions. 



3 potatoes. 

chopped parsley. 

8 croiites fried bread. 



meat-glaze. 

salt. 

pepper. 



919. TOURNEDOS A LA FORESTIERE (FILLETS OF BEEF, 

FORESTER'S STYLE. 

3 ozs. butter. 

Madeira sauce 

(No. 50). 

Cut the fillet into eight rounds with a cutter, so as to get them all the same size ; 
they should be \ inch thick. Flatten them slightly, take away all skin and gristle, 
and trim them. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saute-pan. As soon as it is hot, put in 
the fillets, and fry them brown on each side, keeping them miderdone. Prepare 
the garnish. This should be done before the fillets are cooked. Peel the mush- 
rooms, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, season with pepper and salt, and put 
a tiny piece of butter on each. Put them in the oven, and cook mitil tender. 
Parboil the button onions, drain the water from them, and add some meat-glaze. 
Let finish cooking in this, by which time they should be nicely glazed. Wash and 
peel the potatoes, which should be of medium size, cut them in quarters, round off 
the sharp edges, so as to give them as much as possible the shape of large olives ; 
cover them with cold water in a saucepan, add some salt, bring to the boil, and 
cook for a few minutes ; then drain. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stcAvpan or saute- 
pan, clarify it, and then put in the potatoes ; toss over the fire for a few minutes. 
Put them in the oven, and bake until brown and crisp. Take them up when done, 
and sprinkle some salt and chopped parsley over them. Cut the croutes of bread 
the same size as the fillets, fry them in hot fat or butter. Place a cooked fillet on 
each fried croute, season with pepper and salt. Place a mushroom-head on the 
top of each fillet, and on the mushroom a button onion. Arrange the fillets on a 
hot dish in a circle, place the potatoes in the centre, and serve at once very hot. 
A tureen of Madeira sauce should be sent up to table separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

920. TOURNEDOS A LA RAPHAEL. 



l\ lbs. fillet of beef. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 truffle. 



8 croutes fried bread. 



salt. 

puree of celery. pepper. Perigueux sauce (No. 62). 

Cut the fillet of beef into eight small rounds, trim and flatten them. Melt the 
butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry quickly on each side. Season them 
with pepper and salt, and cover each fillet with a layer of puree of celery. Place 
in the centre of each a slice of truffle. Have ready the fried croutes of bread, which 
should be the same size as the fillets. Place a fillet on each croute, dish up on a 
hot dish, and serve with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable October to February. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



V 



4^*/^\" 



t;if^^^ 



• . ^1 









V 


c 


1 


D 


f 


L. 


"K 


a. 


r 




* 


X 


fc. 


D 


\ 


«j 


h 


■ 1 1 






% 


CQ 


r 


(U 




-D 


r 






(U 


?. 


E 


k 


o 


^gi. 




^^'^ 


(^ 


^p, 


-D 


^^ 


W 


JmCs 


u 


W^ 


a 


tgK 


-D 


H^K ' 


L. 


■k 


o 


J^ 


CQ 




ENTREES (HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC) 235 



H lbs. rump steak. 
2 ozs. breadcrumbs. 
2 ozs. beef suet. 



pepper. 

salt. 

legg. 



I teaspoonful grated lemon- 
rind. 
1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



921. OLIVES DE BCEUF (BEEF OLIVES). 

1 dessertspoonful chopped 

parsley. 
J teaspoonful sweet herbs. 

Take away all fat and skin from the meat ; cut it into thin slices, about 4 inchea 
long and 2 inches wide. Chop the suet fuiely, put it into a basin, and add to it 
the breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, crushed herbs, lemon-rind, and seasoning. 
Mix all together. Beat the egg, and add to the stuffing. Lay the slices of meat 
out flat, sprinkle them with pepper and salt ; put a layer of the stuffing on each slice, 
roll up, and tie each with string. Heat the sauce in a steAvpan, put in the prepared 
rolls, put on the lid of the stewpan, place it on a moderate fire, and cook gently for 
forty-five minutes. When cooked, take off the strings, dish on a bed of mashed 
potato in a pyramid form. Strain the sauce over them, and garnish the dish with 
groups of cooked carrot, turnip, and onion, cut in dice and tossed in butter. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

922. BORDURE DE CR£ME DE BCEUF AUX PRUNES (BORDER OF 

BEEF WITH PRUNES). 



1 lb. cooked salt beef. 



2 ozs. butter. 



J pint supreme sauce 2 ozs. flour. I 2 eggs. 
J lb. French plums. 3 gills stock. (No. 74). 1 gill cream. ! seasoning. 

Mince the beef by passing it through a fine mincing-machine. Melt the butter 
in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add 1 gill of stock, and boil until very thick, 1 
imtil the mixture leaves the sides and bottom of the saucepan clean. Put this 
mixture with the minced meat into a mortar, poimd well together ; then add the 
eggs, pound again. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Whip the 
cream slightly ; mix this into the preparation. Grease a border-mould, turn the 
mixture into it, shake it well down, cover with a buttered paper, and steam in a 
steamer over the fire for half an hour. Soak the plums in cold water for thirty 
minutes, then put them into a saucepan, cover with 2 gills of good stock, and boil 
until tender. Turn the border out on to a hot dish, fill the centre with, the French 
plums, and pour some of the supreme sauce round the base. The remainder of 
the sauce can be sent to table separately. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

QUEUES DE BCEUF (OX^TAILS) 

923. QUEUE DE BCEUF SAUCE BEARNAISE (OX-TAIL WITH 

BEARNAISE SAUCE). 



1 ox-tail (large). | 2 carrots. | B6arnaise sauce (No. 7). 12 peppercorns. 

1 pint good stock. 



butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



bouquet garni, i 2 onions. I 4 ozs. lean bacon. 

Cut the ox-tail into joints, put these pieces into a saucepan, cover with cold Avater, 
and bring to the boil ; then take up the pieces of tail, drain, and dry them on a 
cloth. Cut the bacon into pieces, slice the onions and carrots ; put a layer of the 
bacon in a saucepan, on that the sliced vegetables, peppercorns, and herbs. Lay 
the ox-tail on the top of this, add the stock, put on the lid of the saucepan, and 
let simmer for two hours. Take it off the fire at the end of that time, and let the 
tail get cold. Melt some butter, dip the pieces into it, toss them in breadcrumbs, 
grill over a clear fire, or fry them in butter until a golden broAVTi. Dish them neatly, 
and send to table with Bearnaise sauce separately. 

Average cost of ox-tail, Is. 8d. to 2s. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable a\ 
all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



236 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



924. QUEUE DE BCEUF A LA BOURGEOISE (OX-TAIL, BOURGEOISE STYLE). 



1 large ox- tail. 


4 ozs. bacon. 


1 quart stock. 


1 gill white 


2 ozs. butter. 


bouquet garni. 


\\ ozs. flour. 


wine. 


2 onions. 


2 carrots. 


12 peppercorns. 


salt. 



) 



For Garnish. 
button onions. | carrots and turnips cut in the shape of olives, glazed. | peas. | beans. 

Cut the ox-tail in joints, and blanch. Cut the bacon in pieces. Slice the 
onions and carrots. Put these into a saucepan, lay the pieces of tail on the top, 
add the bouquet garni, the peppercorns, and the stock, cover with the lid of the 
saucepan, put on the fire, and simmer for two hours. When cooked, take up the 
tail and put on one side. Strain the Uquor in the pan into a basin. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan, add the wine, and reduce to half. Stir in the flour, add the stock 
(1 pint), and stir imtil it boils. Season to taste. Put the pieces of tail in this sauce, 
and simmer gently for half an hour. Dish neatly in a pile in the centre of a dish, 
pour the sauce over, and garnish round the dish with the prepared vegetables, 
arranged in groups. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

925. QUEUE DE BCEUF AUX CHOUFLEUR (OX-TAIL WITH 

CAULIFLOWER). 



1 large ox-tail. 

2 carrots. 
2 onions. 



4 ozs. lean bacon. 
12 peppercorns. 

salt. 



bouquet garni. 
2 pints stock. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1^ pints Madeira sauce 

(No. 50). 
1 cauliflower. 



Cut the ox-tail into joints, put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, 
add a little salt, and bring to the boil. Then take up the pieces of tail, drain, and 
dry them well in a cloth. Cut the bacon into pieces ; slice th& onions and carrots. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, sliced vegetables, and the ox-tail, 
fry until a nice brown ; then add the stock, herbs, and peppercorns. Simmer for 
two hours. When the tail is cooked, take it up and place in a clean saucepan. 
Add the Madeira sauce to it, which should be made with the stock the tail was 
cooked in, season to taste, put on to the fire, and cook for half an hour longer. 
Trim the cauliflower, soak in salted water ; put it into boiling water, add a Uttle 
salt, and cook till tender. Dish the ox-tail neatly on a dish, divide the cauliflower 
into nice pieces, strain the sauce over the tail, and garnish the dish with groups of 
cauliflower. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost of ox-tail. Is. 8d. to 2s. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

926. PALAIS DE BCEUF A LA FINANClfiRE (OX-PALATES, 

FINANCI£RE STYLE). 



6 ox-palates. 
2 quarts stock. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 

1 stick celery. 

a blade of mace. 



6 cloves. 

6 peppercorns. 

s^t. 



^ lb. quenelle meat (No. 201). 
financiere garnish (No. 223). 
financiere sauce (No. 34). 

Put the ox-palates into a basin, cover with salted water, and let them soak for 
a few hours. Then wash well and put them into a saucepan, with cold water and 
^alt, and boil them until the skin can be easily removed. Put them into another 
saucepan, with the stock and vegetables, cut up small, the spice, and salt. Let 
them simmer until quite tender. This will take about four hours. When done, 
I take up the palates and press them until cold between two tins. As soon as they 
are cold, cut them into pieces, about 2 inches wide and 3 inches long. Spread these 
with a layer of quenelle meat, roll up tightly, and put each piece into a well-buttered 
strip of paper. Place them in a saute-pan, cover with some of the stock in which 
the palates were cooked for about twenty minutes. When done, take them up. 



ENTREES {HOT MEAT DISHES, ETC.) 237 

remove the paper, dip them in half-glaze, made from some of the cooking liquor. 
Dish them in the centre of a dish in the shape of a cone, put some of the garnish in 
the centre, and pour the sauce over. 

Time required, 5 hours after soaking. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

927. FRICASSEE DE PALAIS DE BCEUF AUX PETITES POIS 
(FRICASSEE OF OX-PALATES WITH PEAS). 



4 ox-palates. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 pint whit« 
stock. 



IJ ozs. flour. 



1 onion, 
butter. 



salt, 
peas. 



6 mushrooms. 

sprigs of parsley. boiled rice. 

Soak the palate-s in salted water for a few hours ; then put them into a saucepan, 
with enough water to cover, and boil until done ; then skin and cut them up into 
squares. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the sliced onion 
and mushrooms, parsley and stock ; stir the sauce until thick. Strain the sauce 
into another saucepan, put in the palates, and season to taste. Boil some rice, 
as for curry. Make a border of this on a hot dish, arrange the palates in the 
centre, pour the sauce over, and put groups of cooked peas, tossed in butter, round 
the palates. Serve hot. 

928. PALAIS DE BCEUF A LA LYONNAISE (OX-PALATES, LYONNAISE STYLE). 

2 ox-palates. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 oz. flour. | J pint stock. | 3 large onions. | seasoning. 
Soak the palates for a few hours, boil in salted water until tender, then skin, 
and cut them into nice square pieces. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in 
the flour, add the stock, and stir until it boils. Simmer gently for ten minutes. 
Boil the onions until soft, then rub them through a hair-sieve. Mix this puree 
with the sauce ; season to taste. Put the palates into the sauce, cook together 
for ten minutes. Dish up and serve. 

C PORC (PORK) 

929. COTELETTES DE PORC, SAUCE PIQUANTE (PORK CUTLETS 

WITH PIQUANTE SAUCE). 



8 small pork cutlets, 
piquante sauce (No. 59). 



breadcrumbs. salt. gherkins, 

pepper. seasoning. butter. 

Cut the pork cutlets from the best end of a neck of pork ; trim them, leaving a 
httle fat on each. Melt some butter in a stewpan, pour it on to a plate, and dip 
each cutlet into it ; then into breadcrumbs. Fry them in butter, taking care to 
cook them well. Dress the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pour a little of the 
sauce round, and place the gherkins in the centre. Send some more sauce to table 
separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

930. COTELETTES DE PORC A LA SOUBISE (PORK CUTLETS 

WITH ONION SAUCE). 



8 pork cutlets. 

i pint Soubise sauce (No. 75). 



seasonmg. 

Madeira sauce (No. 50). 



butter. 

mashed potatoes. 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of the neck, trim, and season them. Melt 
some butter in a frying-pan, arrange the cutlets in it, and fry them well ; they will 
take fifteen to twenty minutes to cook. Shape a circular border of mashed potato 
on a hot dish ; dress the cutlets on this, overlapping each other. Put the Soubise 
sauce, well reduced, in the centre of the dish, and pour the Madeira sauce round 
the base of the dish. 

Average cost, 2s. Time to prepare the cutlets, 25 minutes. Seasonable Septem- 
ber to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



238 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

931. COTELETTES DE PORC A LA FLAMANDE. 

8 pork cutlets. | 6 eating apples. | butter. | seasoning. 

Cut the pork cutlets from the best end of a neck of pork, trim and season them 
with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a saute-pan, arrange the cutlets in it, 
and fry them on both sides until half done. Peel the apples and slice them. Butter 
a fireproof dish, lay the slices of apple upon it, arrange upon them the partly cooked 
cutlets, sprinkle mth melted butter, and finish cooking them and the apples in the 
oven. Serve in the dish they were cooked in. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable September to 
April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

932. SOUFFLE AU JAMBON (HAM SOUFFLE). 

8 ozs. lean cooked ham. I 2 yolks of eggs. I 3 whites of eggs. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce. ! Madeira sauce (No. 50). I seasoning. 

Cut the ham into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar ; add to it half the 
Bechamel sauce. When well pounded, pass through a fine wire sieve. Stir to this 
the remainder of the Bechamel, the two egg-yolks, and seasoning. Beat the whites 
of eggs very stiffly, stir them lightly into the mixture. Well grease a plain charlotte 
mould with clarified butter, fill it three parts full with the mixture, cover with a 
buttered paper, and steam over the fire or in the oven for thirty minutes. When 
cooked, turn out the mould on to a hot dish, and pour some Madeira sauce round 
the base of the dish. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at b11 times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

933. BORDURE DE JAMBON A LA SOUVAROFF (HAM BORDER, 

SOUVAROFF STYLE). 



J lb. raw ham. 1 gill Bechamel sauce. cooked peas. 1 Madeira sauce 



2 ozs. veal. 



2 whites of eggs. 



1 gill cream. 
1 truffle. 



1 yolk of egg. I (No. 50). 

Take away all the sinews from the ham, cut it up finely ; mince the veal ; pound 
these together in a mortar mitil quite fine. Then add the Bechamel sauce and the 
eggs. Season with salt and a pinch of cayenne. If the ham is salt, only the pepper 
should be added. Rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Place the force- 
meat in a basin, and add to it the cream, lightly whipped. Butter a border mould, 
decorate it with stars of truffle, or any other fancy pattern ; fill the mould with the 
forcemeat ; press it well down. Cover with a buttered paper, and stand the mould 
in a baking-tin containing water to reach halfway up the mould. Put in the 
oven, and steam in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. When done, turn out 
on to a hot dish, surround Math Madeira sauce, and fill the centre with cooked 
peas or asparagus-heads, tossed in butter. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 
4 persons. 

934. QUENELLES DE JAMBON AUX PETITS POIS (QUENELLES 

OF HAM WITH PEAS). 

\ lb. cooked lean ham. ^ gill thick Bechamel seasoning. | pint cooked peas. 

I gill cream. sauce (No. 4). 2 eggs. Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

Mince the ham finely, put it into a mortar, pound well ; then add to it the 
Bechamel sauce and the eggs. Pound all together, and pass through a fine wire 
sieve. Put the mixture into a basin, and stir into it the slightly whipped cream, 
and season to taste. Shape the mixture into quenelles with two dessertspoons, 
place them in a greased saute-pan, add boiling water to them, and poach carefully 
^ for ten minutes. Dish on a border of mashed potato in a circle, fill the centre 
with peas, tossed in butter, and pour Madeira sauce round the base. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the summer 
months. Sufificient for 8 quenelles. 



CHAPTER Vlll 

ENTREES PETITES (SMALL ENTREES), HOT 

935. PETITES BOUCHEES A LA CHASSEUR (SMALL PATTIES, 

HUNTER'S STYLE). 

8 patty-cases of puff-paste. 2 ozs. butter. 1 gill chasseur sauce 



10 chicken hvers. 



(No. 19). 



seasoning. 

Wash the livers well, dry them in a cloth, cut them in small squares. ]\lelt the 
butter in a saute-pan, put in the pieces of liver as soon as it is hot, and saute them 
quicldy over the fire. Strain away the fat from them, and add the chasseur sauce. 
Season to taste. Let the mixture get quite hot, but do not boil, or the hver will 
become tough and hard. Fill the patties with the mixture, dish up on a napkin or 
lace paper, garnish Avith crisp sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 patties. 



8 ozs. cooked chicken. 
4 mushrooms. 
1 truffle. 



2 ozs. tongue or ham. j pepper, 
white sauce. 1 bacon or ham. 

salt. I 2 ozs. flour. 



936. CROMESQUIS A LA RUSSE. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Chop the cooked chicken and tongue finely. Cut the mushrooms and truffle 
into very small dice, season A\dth pepper and salt, and moisten with sufficient sauce 
to make the mixture into a paste. Turn this out on to a plate, and let it get cold. 
When cold and set, divide into equal parts, make up into rolls the shape of corks ; 
wrap each in a thin slice of bacon or ham. Sieve the flour wdth a httle salt into a 
basin, break in the yolks of the eggs (put the whites into a basin), and stir them 
into the flour. Add the salad-oil and milk. Mix all well together. Then beat 
the batter mitil smooth and light. Whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; stir 
them in lightly. Dip each cromesqui into this batter, cover them completely, 
and fry them in very hot fat a golden broA^m. Drain, dish them up, and garnish 
with fried parsley. If liked, tomato or broAvn sauce can be sent up to table with 
them. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 cromesquis. 

937. ANDOUILLETTES DE VOLAILLE. 
1 egg. 



6 ozs. cooked chicken. I salt. 

4 mushrooms. J oz. flour 

2 ozs. cooked ham. ' 1 shallot. 



2 ozs. butter. I 1 teaspoonful chopped 
^ gill stock, 1 pig's caul. parsley. 

pepper. I fried parsley. oval paper souffle-casos. 

Chop the chicken, ham, and mushrooms finely. Melt I oz. of butter in a ste\vq)an. 
Fry the chopped shallot, stir in the flour, mix in the stock, and boil imtil thick. 
Add to it the chopped ingredients, the parsley, and seasoning. Bind Avith the 
yolk of egg, tm-n the mixture on to a plate, and let it get cold. Divide it into 
equal parts ; make each part into a roll, the shape of a cork. Cut some squares 
of pig'.s caul, wTap a piece carefully roimd each andouillette, fasten each end with 
a little wliite of egg. Butter the oval souffle-ca.ses, put a bed of fried parsley in each 
case. Melt the remainder of the butter in a frying-pan, put in the andouillettes, 
PT. IV. 2.39 10 



240 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



and fry them a golden colour. When done, drain, put them on a baking-sheet, 
brush over with glaze, and put them in the oven for another minute. Dish them in 
the cases on the fried parsley. Serve with a tureen of tomato or piquante sauce. 

N.B. — Any kind of game, veal, or other meat, may be used instead of the chicken, 
but in that case the name changes to " Andouillettes de gibier," " de veau." etc. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 andouillettes. 

938. PETITES LANGUES A L'ESPAGNOLE (LITTLE TONGUE 
MOULDS WITH ESPAGNOLE SAUCE). 

J gill stock. seasoning. 

1 egg. Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

Cut up the veal and tongue into small pieces. Melt the butter in a small stew- 
pan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until very thick. Put this sauce and 
the meat into a mortar, pound well, and then add the egg and seasoning. Pound 
again until the ingredients are all well mixed and quite smooth, then rub through 



4 ozs. veal. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. flour. 

4 ozs. ox-tongue. 




Fig. 42. — Petites Langues a l'Espagnole. 



a wire sieve. Put the forcemeat into a basin, and mix with it \ gill of Espagnole 
sauce. Grease some tongue moulds, about eight or ten, fill them with the force- 
meat. Place the moulds in a baking-tin with boiling water, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn out 
the little moulds on to a round entree-dish. Dish in a circle, pour the Espagno](i 
sauce over them, just enough to coat them nicely, and garnish the centre witli 
mixed vegetables, which have been tossed in butter, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 to 10 moulds. 



939. CASSOLETTES A LA PRINCESSE MAUDE. 



J lb. short-paste. 



6 ozs. cooked chicken. 
2 ozs. tongue. 



Perigueux sauce 
(No. 62). 



1 egg. 



1 shallot, 
butter. 



1 truffle, 
grated cheese, 
veloute sauce (No. 82). 

Roll out the short paste ; butter some small plain timbale moulds, line them 
with the short paste. Prick the pastry with, a fork, and fill them with raw rice, 
and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take them up and turn out the 



ENTREES PETIT ES {SMALL ENTREES), HOT 



241 



rice carefully. Cut up the chicken, tongue, and truffle into dice. Melt a little 
butter in a saucepan, chop the shallot and fry it in the butter, mix in the chopped 
ingredients ; bind with sufficient sauce to make into a smooth mixture ; add the yolk 
of the egg, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill the little pastry cups 
with this salpicon. Whisk the white of egg stiiSy ; mix with it about half a table- 
spoonful of grated cheese and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Cover the top of each 
cassolette Avith this as neatly as possible, piling it up high. Put them into a hot 
oven for about eight minutes — just long enough to make them hot through and to 
bro\\Ti the top. Turn them out of the tins on to a hot dish, and serve with them 
some Perigueux sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 cassolettes. 



940. CANNELONS 

4 ozs. chicken. 
3 cocksonmbs. 
salt and pepper. 



A LA ROYALE (PASTRY ROLLS, ROYAL STYLE). 



6 fresh mushrooms. | gill cream. 3 egg-yolks. 

2 gills veloute sauce (No. 82). 2 truffles. vermicelU. 

puflf-paste trimmings. butter. 1 egg. 

Chop the cliicken and cockscombs into small dice. Cook the mushrooms in 
a little butter, chop, and add them to the chicken ; also the truffles. Put the 
sauce into a saucepan, add the cream, and reduce until very thick ; add the chopped 
ingredients, season to taste, and bind with, the egg yolks. Turn the mixture on 
to a plate, and let it get quite cold. Roll out the puff paste trimmings ^ inch thick, 
stamp out some rounds with a pastry-cutter, 3 inches across. Place a teaspoonful 
of the mixture on each piece ; brush half-way round the edges with water, roll over 
tlio paste, pressing the edges hghtly together. Beat up an egg, dip the cannelons 
in it, toss in vermicelh that has been broken up small, and fry in hot fat a golden 
brown. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Cd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 12 cannelons. 

941. CROUSTADES DE RIZ A LA FINANCIERE (RICE CRUSTS, 

FINANCIERS STYLE). 



i lb. rice. 
1 onion. 
1 clove. 

Wash the rice. 



1 quart white stock. 
1 \ ozs. grated Parmesan 
cheese. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 egg. 
seasoning. 



financiere garnish 

(Xo. 223). 
breadcrumbs. 

the rice, and fry a few 



Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 
minutes ; then add the stock (1| pints at first, adding the remainder if necessary), 
the onion stuck with the clove, and seasoning. Cook until the rice is tender and 
has absorbed the stock ; then work in another ounce of butter and the cheese. 
Put the rice into a tin 2 inches deep, cover with a buttered paper, put another tin 
on the top, with a small weight, and press until cold. When the rice is cold, turn 
out of the tin on to a board, and with a round cutter, 2 inches across, cut out as 
many crusts as possible. Dip in the beaten egg and toss in breadcrumbs ; then 
with a small cutter (1 inch) make an incision on the top of each crust. Fry the 
rice cases in hot fat, drain on kitchen paper, take off the covers, scoop out the 
inside, and fill them mth the financiere garnish. Place on the top of each a 
glazed quenelle of chicken. Serve with a tureen of Madeira sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 
8 croastades. 

942. TIMBALE DE BCEUF A LA MAD£RE. 



1 lb. fillet of beef. 
1 oz. butter. 



i gill water or stock. 
2 gills brown sauce. 



Madeira sauce 
(No. 50). 

IMelt the butter 



1 oz. flour. bcjf-marrow. 

3 egg-yolks. mushrooms. 

Cut up the meat small, put it into a mortar, and poimd it well, 
in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the water or stock, and boil mitil the mixture 
leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. Add this panada to the pomided meat ; 

1&— 2 



242 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



also 1| gills of well-reduced browii sauce. Pound all well together, then add the 
egg-yolks, and rub through a wire sieve. Let this mixture get cold ; then butter a 
plain timbale mould, and line it with the forcemeat. Blanch the beef marrow, cut 
it in pieces. Cook the mushrooms in a little butter, then chop and mix them \nih 
tlio marrow ; moisten with a little Madeira sauce, enough to bind. Fill the centre 
of the lined mould "vvith this salpicon, cover with a layer of the forcemeat. Place 
the mould in a saute-pan containing boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and 
cook in the oven slowly for fifteen minu*^.es. Turn out on to a dish, and serve -wdth 
Madeira sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

943. PETITES TIMBALES DE VOLAILLE. 



h lb. quenelle meat (No. 202). 
4 ozs. cooked chicken. 



2 ozs. cooked ham. 
4 mushrooms. 



1 truffle. I green vegetable. 

1 gill white sauce. | seasoning. 

Make the quenelle meat either of cliicken or veal. Cut the cooked chicken into 
small dice ; cook the mushrooms in a little butter ; chop the truffles, ham, and mush- 
rooms ; put them with the cliicken in a stewpan ; add the white sauce, mix well, 
and season to taste. Butter six to eight small moulds, line them carefully all over 
^vith the quenelle meat ; fill the centre with the chicken mixture. Cover over the 
top of each mould with the quenelle meat. Steam them either in a steamer or in 
the oven for fifteen minutes. Dish in a circle, pour a good white sauce over and 
round, and serve a green vegetable — i.e., spinach, beans, or peas, etc. — in the centre. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
tSufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

944. PETITS SOUFFLES DE VOLAILLE A LA FINANCIERE (SMALL 
CHICKEN SOUFFLES, FINANCIERE STYLE). 



6 mushrooms. 


2 truffles. 


^ pint Bechamel sauce 


pepper 


4 olives. 


\ gill Madeira sauce (No. 50). 


(No. 4). 


salt. 


4 ozs. foie-gras. 


8 ozs. raw chicken. 


2 eggs. 


butter. 



Chop the mushrooms, olives, truffles, and foie-gras ; mix these ingredients to- 
gether, and bind ^^ith the Madeira sauce. Put a teaspoonful of this preparation 
into small cases (paper or china), and cover with the following mixture : Pound the 
chicken in a mortar. When smooth, add the Bechamel sauce ; then rub through a 
wire sieve. Season \Wth salt and pepper. Put the puree back into the mortar, 
and mix in the two egg-yolks. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly. 
When the cases are full, smooth the top of each \v\ih a knife, and brush over with 
melted butter, to prevent a crust forming. Cook in a moderate oven for fifteen 
minutes, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi 
oient for 6 persons. 



945. PETITES BOUCHEES DE ROGNONS A LA PARMENTIER. 



3 or 4 sheep's kidneys. 
1 shallot. 

1 tablaspoonful cream. 
6 mushrooms. 



4 ozs. panada. 

1 lb. potatoes. 
\h ozs. butter. 

2 yolks of eggs. 



i lb. veal. 
1 egg. 
salt. 
pepper. 



^ gill white wine. 
\ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
\ gill Espagnole sauce (No. ."iS). 
chopped parsley. 

Skin the kidneys, and cut them in fine slices ; chop the shallot and the mush- 
rooms. Melt \ oz. of butter, fry the shallot a little, \Wthout browning, then add 
the mushrooms and kidneys, and saute them over a quick fire. Stir in the wine 
and Espagnole sauce, season Avith pepper and salt, and cook a few minutes longer. 
Add a little chopped parsley, and keep until wanted. Cut the veal into small 
pieces, put it into a mortar, and pound it well with the panada and one egg. Season 
highly with pepper and salt, and rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Then stir 



ENTREES PETIT ES {SMALL ENTREES), HOT 



243 



in the cream. Butter eight to ten small bouche moulds, sprinkle them with brown 
breadcrumbs, line them with the veal forcemeat, and fill each nearly full with 
the kidney mixture. Cover over with a layer of forcemeat. Steam in the ovon 
for twenty minutes. Boil the potatoes, and, when done, rub them through a wire 
sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a ste\\'pan, stir the mashed potato in it, season to 
taste, and add two yolks of eggs. ]Mix all together thoroughly. Butter a border- 
mould, sprinkle all over with brown breadcrumbs, and press the potato into it. 
Place in a cool oven to keep hot. When ready to serve, turn out the border on to 
a hot dish, dress the httle moulds in the centre of the border, and pour the tomato 
sauce romid the base. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all time?. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



946. PETITES DARIOLES A LA DUXELLE. 



\ lb. ox-tongue. 
1 large truflflo. 
1 shallot. 
4 mushrooms. 



1 lb. veal forcemeat 

(No. 201). 
\ pint Italian sauce 

(No. 41). 



1 teaspoon ful of chopped 
parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls veloute 

sauce (No. 82). 



1 oz. butter. 
1 yolk of 

egg- 
seasoning. 

Butter six dariole-moulds, decorate each one with stars of tongue and truffle. 
Spread a layer of veal forcemeat over this, taking great care not to disturb the 
decorations. Peel the mushrooms, cook in the oven with a little butter ; chop the 
shallot, and fry in butter. Cut the mushrooms into thin strips, also the tongue 
and any truffle that may be left over from the decoration. Place these in a sauce- 
pan, bind with the veloute sauce and the yolk of egg ; season to taste, and mix in 
the chopped parsley. Fill the centre of the moulds Anth this. Cover the top of 
each \vith a layer of the forcemeat, cover vdih. buttered paper, and steam for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Turn out carefully, and pour Italian sauce romid the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the yer.r. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

947. PETITES TIME ALES A LA MILANAISE (LITTLE MOULDS, MILAN STYLE). 

\ lb. veal or chicken. I 1 oz. flour. I 1 egg. 2 ozs. cooked macaroni. 

1 oz. butter. I \ gill stock, i \ gill cream. tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Mince the meat, first removinc; skin and sinew. Melt the butter in a small 
stew^an, stir in the flour, add the white stock, and boil until thick and the mixture 
leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. Put this, with the veal or chicken, into a 
mortar, pound until fine, then add the egg, peppor and salt ; mix well, and rub 
through a vnve sieve. Mix into this puree the cream, which should be lightly 
whipped. Butter some small timbale moulds. Cut the macaroni into short 
lengtlis, about \ inch long. Arrange these small pieces of macaroni all over the 
little moulds. They must fit close together, and completely line the moulds. Let 
these get quite firm on ice ; then fill them with the prepared forcemeat. Place 
them on a baking-tin containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, 
and poach in the oven for about twenty minutes. When done, take up, turn them 
carefully out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round, 
and .serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 timbales. 



1 sweetbread (large). 
8 mushrooms. 



948. COQUILLES DE RIS DE VEAU (SHELLS OF SWEETBREAD). 

^ gill veloute sauce (No. 82). I breadcrumbs. seasoning. 

I gill tomato sauce (No. 77). ' \ gill cream. butter. 

Soak, blanch, and braise the sweetbread. When cooked, cut it into large dice. 
Add to it the sliced mushrooms. Heat up in a saucepan the veloute sauce. Mix 
into it the tomato sauce, and reduce well. Season to taste, and add the cream. 



244 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Make hot, then add to it the prepared sweetbreads and mushrooms. Butter soma 
shells lightly, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle each Avith breadcrumbs and 
melted butter, and bake in a sharp oven a light brown. Serve quickly. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 shells 

949. BROCHETTES DE RIS DE VEAU (SWEETBREADS ON SKEWERS). 



1 sweetbread, 
thin slices of bacon. 



fried parsley. 

Perigueux sauce (No. 62). 



1 egg. breadcrumbs, 

salt. pepper. 

Soak, blanch press, and braise the sweetbread ; trim it, and take away fat and 
gristle ; cut it into slices. Cut the bacon the same size. Sprinkle the sweetbread 
slices with pepper and salt. Arrange them on skewers alternately with the pieces 
of bacon, three sHces of sweetbread and three of bacon on each skewer. Dip the 
skewers first in melted butter, then in egg and breadcrumbs ; fry them a golden 
brown in hot fat or butter. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve the 
sauce separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
,;ient for 4 persons. 

950. CREPINETTES DE RIS DE VEAU. 



I heart sweetbread. 


salt. 


legg. 


1 pig's caul. 


1 truffle. 


pepper. 


breadcrumbs. 


Perigueux sauce 


1 oz. cooked ham. 


butter. 


fried parsley. 


(No. 62). 



Soak the sweetbread for one hour, blanch and trim it. Chop the sweetbread, 
ham, and truffle, season with salt and pepper, and mix with beaten egg, sufficient 
to bind. Put these ingredients into a saucepan with a little melted butter, and stir 
until thoroughly blended over the fire. Turn out on to a plate, and let the mixture 
get cold ; then divide it into six or eight equal portions. Make these into rolls, 
the shape of corks, wrap each in a piece of pig's caul. Brush over with melted 
butter, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot fat in a saute-pan. When cooked, 
take up, drain, and dish up ; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce 
separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



951. PETITES CROUSTADES DE RIS DE VEAU. 



I sweetbread, 
bouqu-et-garni. 
I pint stock. 
1 slice tongue. 



1 truffle. 

^ lb. puff -paste. 

seasoning. 

butter. 



1 carrot. 3 or 4 presarved mushrooms. 

1 onion. grated Parmesan. 

1 turnip. a few breadcrumbs. 

2 cloves. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Blanch the sweetbread, press it under a light weight mitil cold, trim it, taking 
away all fat and sinew. Cut up the vegetables, put them into a stewpan with 
the herbs, cloves, and stock. Put the sweetbread on the vegetables, cover with 
Guttered paper, put on the hd of the stewpan, and braise for half an hour. When 
done, take it up, let it cool a few minutes, then cut into dice. Cut up the mushrooms, 
truffle, and tongue in the same way. Mix these ingredients with the Bechamel 
sauce ; season to taste. Line some bouche moulds with the puff-paste, prick the 
bottom of each, fill them with raw rice, and bake them a golden colour in a hot 
oven. When done, take out the rice carefully, turn them out of the moulds, and 
fill them with the sweetbread mixture. Sprinkle some grated cheese and bread- 
crumbs on the top of each, put them in the oven for a few minutes, and then serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 croustades. 



ENTREES PETIT ES (SMALL ENTREES), HOT 



245 



952. CORNETS A LA MONT-GLAS. 



^ lb. puff-paste. 

1 pair lambs' sweetbreads. 



1 gill Bechamel I 3 mushrooms. seasoning. 1 egg. 

sauce (No. 4). | 1 slice tongue. parsley. 1 triifiQj. 

Butter the outside of some cornet tins. Roll out the pastry, and cut it in strips, 
about U inches wide. Roll these pieces of paste round each tin, so that the pastry 
strip laps over at each turn. Beat up the egg, and brush over the pastry with it. 
Lay these tins on a greased baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven. Blanch, trim, and 
braise the sweetbreads. When cooked, cut it in dice ; also the mushrooms, truffle, 
and ham. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, moisten them with enough 
sauce to bind, season to taste, and make quite hot. When the paste cases are done, 
<^ake them out of the oven and slip the tins out, fill them with the mixture ; sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley on each. Dish them on a folded napkin on a dish, the 
pointed ends to the centre of the dish. Put some sprigs of crisp parsley in the 
centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 23. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable January to August. 
Sufficient for 6 cornets. 




Fig. 43. — PiOuLETTES de Eis d'Agneau. 



953. ROULETTES DE RIS D'AGNEAU (PASTRY ROLLS WITH SWEETBREAD. 

J lb. puff-paste. 



2 pairs lambs' sweetbreads. 

3 or 4 mushrooms. 
^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



pepper, 
salt. 



1 gill green peas. 

2 ozs. ham. 

1 yolk of egg. 



Roll out the puff-paste, cut it out with an oval cutter, and roll these pieces 
roimd some wooden rollers about 3 inches long ; these must be well greased before- 
hand. Put them folded side down on a baking-sheet, brush over with yolk of eg;.;, 
and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. When done, take out of tlu 
oven, and slip the rollers out of the pastry, and fill with the following mixture : 
Cook the sweetbreads, cut them in small dice, also the ham, mushrooms, and 
truffle in the same way. Put this into a stewpan, and add sufficient sauce to bind 
the mixture ; season to taste. This mixture should be ready by the time the pn-stry 
is cooked. Cook the peas, then rub them through a hair-sieve, mix with it a little 
cream or Bechamel sauce to make it the right consistency, and, if necessary, a little 
spinach greening. Put this puree into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate 
the top of each roulette with it. Disli up, and decorate the dish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour Seasonable January to August. 
Sufficient for 8 roulettes 



246 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



954. BONNES BOUCHES DE RIS D'AGNEAU (TIT-BITS OF LAMBS' 

SWEETBREADS). 



6 mushrooms. 

1 gill supreme sauce (No. 74). 

seasoniacf. 



^ lb. mashed potato. 
1 egg-yolk. 



^ oz. butter. 



J lb. short or puff-paste. 

2 truffles. 

2 pairs lambs' sweetbreads. 

Cook the sweetbreads, drain and cool them, cut into dice ; saute the mushrooms 
in butter, cut them and the truffles into dice, mix with the sweetbread, moisten 
with the sauce, and season to taste. Roll out the pastry, and line with it some 
small bouche moulds, fill with raw rice, and cook in a hot oven a light brown. When 
done, take out the rice, and fill them with the sweetbread mixture. Have ready 
the potato, which should be passed through a wire sieve, melt J oz. of butter in a 
saucepan, put in the potato, season nicely, add the egg-yolk, and mix well ; turn 




Fig. 4-4. — Bonnes Bouches de Pas D'AiiNEAU. 



on to plate to cool. When cool enough, put the potato into a forcing-bag with 
pipe, and decorate the top of each. Put into a hot oven for a few minutes. Dish 
up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable January to August. 
Sufficient for 8 bouches. 



955. RISSOLES DE RIS D'AGNEAU (RISSOLES OF SWEETBREAD). 



1 pair lambs' sweetbreads. 
i gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
i truffle. 



4 mushrooais. 

seasoning. 

breadcrumbs. 



\ lb. puff-paste. 
1 oz. ox-tongue. 

Iecc. 



Blanch, trim, braise, and press the sweetbreads, cut them into small dice, also 
the truffle, ox-tongue, and mushrooms ; season to taste, and moisten with enough 
sauce to bind. Roll out the puff-paste very thinly, and cut out some rounds with 
a 1^-inch cutter. Put some of the sweetbread mixture on each round, wet the 
edges, and fold in half, press dovm. with the finger so as to close the pastry. Beat 
the egg on a plate, put in the rissoles, and brush them over with it, then toss in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in very hot fat a golden colour. Drain, and serve on a dish-papor 
on a hot dish. Garnish the dish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable January to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



ENTREES PETITES {SMALL ENTREES), HOT 



247 



956. BEIGNETS DE RIS DE VEAU (SWEETBREAD FRITTERS). 



1 large calf's sweetbread. 

f pint Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



3 mushrooms. 
2 shallots, 
seasoning. 



tarragon and chervil. 
frying batter, 
fried parsley. 



Blanch the sweetbread, braise, trim, and press it, and when cold cut in slices. 
Chop the mushrooms and shallots finely, cook them in butter, then add the chopped 
herbs. Reduce the sauce well, then mix in the chopped ingredients ; dip the slices 
of sweetbread into this sauce, place them on a greased dish, and put on ice or in 
a cool place. Ten minutes before serving dip each slice into frying batter, and 
fry in hot fat. When a nice golden brown, take them out, dish on a napkin, and 
garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 45. — Rissoles de Ris d'Agneau. 
957. RIS D'AGNEAU EN CAISSES (LAMBS' SWEETBREADS IN CASES). 



6 lambs' sweetbreads. 
1 pint stock. 



2 egg-yolks, 
melted butter. 



seasonmg. 

2 whites of eggs. 



^ pint veloute sauce 
(No. 82). 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for one hour, blanch and drain, put into a 
saucepan with the stock, and cook. When done, press them lightly until cold ; 
trim the sweetbreads, and cut them each to a round shape. Reduce the stock that 
the sweetbreads were cooked in to 1 gill, add to this the sauce and the egg-yolks, 
bind the sauce over the fire ; season to taste. Whip the wliites of the eggs stiffly, 
and stir into the sauce. Put a teaspoonful of sauce into some small china cases, 
place a slice of sweetbread on the top of each, and cover with the sauce. Pour over 
a little melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable January to 
Augu.st. Sufficient for 6 cases. 



958. BOUDINS DE VEAU A 

J lb. lean veal. 

2 ozs. butter. 

1 oz. Hour. 
Mince the veal. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the 
stock, and boil until the sauce leaves the sides and bottom of the saucepan ; put 
tills panada with the meat into a mortar, pound well, then add one egg, pound agam, 



^ gill white stock. 

2 ozs. foio-gras. 

^ pint Perigueux sauce (No. 62) 



LA LUCULLUS. 

G mushrooms, 
breadcrumbi. 
fried parsley. 



2 eggs. 
2 shallots. 
1 trulHe. 



248 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



season to taste with pepper and salt, and rub the mixture through a wire sieve. 
Chop the shallots finely, fry them without browning in the remainder of the butter ; 
chop the mushrooms, and mix with the onion ; when cooked, add them to the force- 
meat ; cut the truffle and foie-gras into very small dice, mix these into the other 
ingredients, turn this mixture on to a plate, and let it get cold. Divide this mixture 
into eight equal portions, shape each piece into flat rounds on a floured board ; this 
is best done by making them first into balls, then flattening them lightly with the 
hand. Butter a saute-pan, arrange the boudins in it, cover with boiling water, 
put them over the fire, and bring to the boil ; as soon as the water boils draw the 
pan to the side of the fire, and let them stand for ten minutes, then lift them 
carefully out of the water ; drain on a cloth, and let them get cold. Beat up 
an egg on a plate, dip the boudins in it, coat them w^ell all over, then tors 
in breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat or lard. Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, 
garnish the centre of the dish with fried parsley. Serve. hot with the sauce separately. 
Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 46. — Boudins db Veag a la Lucullus. 
959. PETITES BOUCHEES DE FAISAN A LA MODERNE. 



1 lb. potatoes. 

2 ozs. butter. 



3 yolks of eggs. 

4 mushrooms. 



remains of cold pheasant. 
1 truffle. 



1 gill cream. 2 gills Bechamel sauce 
seasoning. (No. 4). 

Chop the pheasant, truffle, and mushroom finely, put these ingredients into n. 
stewpan, and moisten with a little sauce ; stir this over the fire until well mixed ; 
»eason with pepper and salt. Cook the potatoes, and then rub them through a 
wire sieve ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the potato, add a little cream, 
and season with salt and pepper. Let this puree get quite hot, then add the yolk 
of an egg, and mix into a paste. Grease some small plain dariole moulds, line them 
with the potato puree, put some of the pheasant mixture in the centre of each 
mould, cover with the potato. Smooth with the blade of a knife, brush over 
with egg-yolk, and bake in a moderate oven until a golden brown. Warm up the 
remainder of the sauce, add the yolk of an egg, cream, and the rest of the butter bit 
by bit. Turn out the little moulds on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and servo. 

Average cost, 2s., without pheasant. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable 
October to February. Sufficient for 6 moulds. 

N.B. — Any kind of game, chicken, veal, or sweetbread may be used instead of 
the pheasant. 



ENTREES PETITES {SMALL ENTREES), HOT 



249 



960. DORMES A L'INDIENNE. 



^ lb. lean veal. 
2 shallots. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 dessertspoonful flour. 

1 teaspoonful curry-powder. 

8 artichoke bottoms. 



^ gill stock. 

boiled rice. 

curry sauce (No. 23). 



2 eggs. 

breadcrumbs. 

seasoning. 



Cut up the meat, take away all skin and gristle, pass the veal through a mincing- 
machine. Melt the butter in a stew-pan ; chop the shallots finely, and fry in the 
butter, then add the meat, and cook for a few minutes over a brisk fire ; mix the 
flour and curry-powder together, add this to the meat, and cook a little longer ; 
dilute with the stock, season to taste, boil up and simmer gently for five minutes, 
stirring meanwhile. Let the mixture cool slightly, then add one yolk of egg, bind 
over the fire, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When cold, make up into 
small round flat cakes the size of the artichoke bottoms, brush them over with beaten 
egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot fat. Heat the artichoke bottoms in 
a little good stock, drain the meat-cakes, and dress one on each artichoke. Dish 
in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with nicely boiled rice, and serve very hot 
with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



961. DORMES DE VOLAILLE. 



pepper, 
salt. 
1 egg. 



1 shallot. 
1 oz. flour, 
frying fat. 



4 ozs. cooked chicken. I 1 oz. chopped ham. lemon-juice. 

1 teaspoonful chopped 4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter, 

parsley. ' breadcrumbs. 1 gill stock. 

Chop the shallot, melt the butter, put in the shallot, and fry for a few minutes 
without browning ; then add the flour, stir in the stock, and boil until thick. 
Mince the chicken and ham finely, and add to the sauce. Cut the hard-boiled 
eggs in halves lengthways, take out the yolks carefully, so as not to break the 
whites, chop the yolks, and add them to the meat ; mix in the parsley, pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice ; stir all together until well mixed. Fill the halves of the eggs with 
the preparation, shape it so that it looks Hke a whole egg, dip them in breadcrumbs, 
then in egg and breadcrumbs ; repeat this, then fry the dormes a golden brown in 
very hot frying fat. Dish up, and serve with fried parsley. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



962. BOUDINS DE VEAU A LA RICHELIEU. 



I lb. veal. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ gill white sauce. 
^ gill cream. 
6 champignons. 



^ gill stock. 2 pairs lambs' sweet- 1 egg. 

1 trutiie. breads. salt. 

1 slice ham. veloute sauce (No. 82). pepper. 

Mince the veal finely. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add 
the stock, and boil until thick ; put this with the minced veal into a mortar, pound 
well together, add the egg, salt, and pepper, pound again until it is all well mixed, 
then pass through a wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, and stir it into the 
forcemeat. Grease some plain dariole moulds, and line them all over with the 
veal forcemeat. Fill the centre with the following mixture : Blanch, trim, and braise 
the sweetbreads ; when cooked, cut them into dice ; cut also into small dice the 
champignons, truffle, and ham ; mix with these the wliite sauce, and season to 
taste. When the moulds are filled, cover over the top with a layer of the forcemeat. 
Place the shapes in a steamer, cover them with buttered paper, put on the hd, and 
steam for ten minutes. When done turn them out on to a hot dish, and serve with 
the veloute sauce poured round. Garnish the top of each with a Uttle chopped 
truffle or ham. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 moulds. 



250 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



963. PETITES TIMBALES DE VEAU A LA RICHELIEU (LITTLE MOULDS 

OF VEAL, RICHELIEU STYLE). 



I lb. veal. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



I gill stock. 
\ gill cream. 

IAOrOr 



2 ozs. ox-tongue. 
2 or 3 mushrooms, 
seasoninsr. 



2 gills white sauce 

(No. 82). 
truffle. 



Take 4 ozs. of the veal, and cook it. Cut up the remainder of the veal in small 
pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil 
until very thick. Put the veal and the panada just made into a mortar, pound well 
together, add the egg and seasoning. When all is well pounded, rub the mixture 
through a wire sieve. Cut the cooked veal, tongue, and mushrooms into dice, mix 
with them about | gill of white sauce, enough to bind the mixture, season to taste. 
Whip the cream lightly, and mix it into the pounded and sieved forcemeat ; line 
some small greased timbale or dariole moulds with this, fill the centre with the cooked 
ingredients, cover with the forcemeat, put a greased paper over them, and steam for 
ten minutes. When cooked, turn out the moulds on to a hot dish. Serve with the 
remainder of the sauce, poured over or round. Place a slice of truffle on each 
timbale. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 moulds. 



964. CROQUETTES DE JAMBON (HAM CROQUETTES). 



f onion. 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 egg-yolks. 
1 whole egg. 



breadcrumbs, 
seasoning. 



8 ozs. lean cooked ham. I 4 ozs. boiled rice, 
tomato sauce (No. 77). I 1 gill white sauce. 

Chop the ham finely, removing all sinew. Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop 
the onion finely, and fry it in the butter without letting it brown ; then add the 
chopped ham and the boiled rice, season with pepper and salt, add the white sauce 
(which should be thick), mix in the two egg-yolks, and turn the mixture on to a 
plate to get cold and set. When ready to use, make the preparation up into balls 
or cork shapes, beat the egg on a plate, dip the croquettes into it ; then toss in 
breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and send 
some well-seasoned tomato sauce to table with them separately. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient to make 8 croquettes. 



965. ZEPHIRES DE FOIE-GRAS A LA SUPREME. 



I lb. veal or chicken. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



I gill water or stock. 
1 whole egg and 2 yolks, 
terrine of foie-gras. 



supreme sauce 

(No. 74). 
salt. 



truffle. 

^ gill cream. 

pepper. 

Remove all sinew and skin from the raw chicken or veal ; chop it finely. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock or water, and 
boil until thick and until it leaves the sides of the pan clean. Put the chopped 
meat into a mortar, put the panada into it, pound well ; then add the eggs one at 
a time, mix all together, and rub through a wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, 
and add it to the forcemeat ; season to taste. Turn the foie-gras out of the terrine, 
take off the fat, and cut into nice pieces, one for each zephire. The trimmings left 
over should be well pounded and sieved, and mixed with the forcemeat. Butter 
some small, flat, oval-shaped, fluted moulds, line each with the forcemeat, place in 
the centre of each a piece of foie-gras, fill up with more of the forcemeat, place them 
in a steamer, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about fifteen minutes. 
Dish them on a round entree dish in the shape of a star, sauce over with supreme 
sauce, sprinkle some chopped truffle in the centre of each, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d, Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 zephires. 



12 chicken livers. 

4 ozs. chicken meat (raw). 



ENTRE'ES PETITES {SMALL ENTREES), HOT 251 

966. PETITS SOUFFLES DE FOIES DE VOLAILLE (LITTLE SOUFFLES OF 

CHICKEN LIVERS). 

2 ozs. butter. i 1 oz. flour. I pepper. 

^ gill white stock. ! 2 eggs. I salt. 

Wash the Hvers, wipe them dr3^ chop them finely, and fry them quickly in 
1 oz. of butter ; season with salt and pepper. iMelt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, 
stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until thick. Pass the chicken meat through 
a mincing-machine, put it into a mortar, add the livers and sauce to it, and pound 
all well together ; then add the egg-yolks, and season to taste. Mix well, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Whisk the wliites of eggs stiffly, and stir into the puree. 
Butter some china souffle cases, fill these two-thirds full A\ith the mixture, place 
them on a baking-sheet, and cook in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 
Serve as soon as ready. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 12 souffles. 

937. RISSOLETTES DE RIS D'AGNEAU. 



J lb. puff-paste. 


1 truffle. 


1 gill Bechamel sauce. 


frying fat 


breadcrumbs. 


1 oz. ham. 


fried parsley. 


^ onion. 


4 champignons. 


1 gill stock. 


6 peppercorns. 


legg. 


seasoning. 


^ bay-leaf. 


2 lambs' sweetbreads. 


J carrot. 



Put the sweetbreads into a stewpan, cover with cold water, and bring to the 
boil. Drain, put them on a baking-sheet, place another on the top, and press until 
cold ; then trim, take away skin, fat, and gristle. Cut the onion, after peeling in 
half, scrape the carrot cut in large pieces. Put these into a saucepan with the 
bay-leaf, peppercorns, and a little salt. Add the stock, place the sweetbreads on 
the vegetables, cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the saucepan, and simmer 
gently for twenty minutes. Take them up, drain, and let cool ; then cut in small 
dice ; cut up the champignons, truffle, and ham in the same way. Mix these in- 
gredients together, also the lambs' sweetbreads. Heat the sauce, and stir into it the 
above ingredients. Season with salt and pepper, mix well, and then turn on to a 
plate to cool. Roll out the puff-paste thinly, stamp out some rounds with a cutter 
2h inches across. Place in the centre of a round some of the mixture, wet the 
edges, and place another round of paste on the top. Press the edges together, and 
continue in this way until all the pastry and the mixture are used up. Beat an 
egg on a plate, dip the rounds into it, then into breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot 
fat a golden bro^v^l. Drain them on paper, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable December to 
August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

968. PETITS SOUFFLES DE VOLAILLE EN CAISSES (LITTLE SOUFFLES OF 

CHICKEN IN CASES). 
4 ozs. raw chicken. | salt and pepper. | 1 whole egg. | 1 yolk of egg. | J gill cream. | | oz. butter. 

Take away all skin and gristle from the chicken, cut it up into small pieces, put 
into a mortar, and pound well ; then add by degrees the two yolks of eggs, season 
to taste with salt and pepper, and then rub the mixture through a wire sieve. 
Whip the cream a httle, and stir it into the forcemeat ; whisk the white of the egg 
very stiffly, and stir it in carefully. Butter five or six souffle cases (either china or 
paper), fill them three-parts full with the mixture. Place them on a baking-sheet, 
and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish the cases on a napkin 
fo'.ded and placed on a hot dish, and serve at once very hot. A tureen of Bechamel 
sauce oan be served with this entree. 

Average cost, 23. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



252 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



969. PETITES TIMBALES DE FOIES DE VOLAILLE. 



\ lb. chicken force- I 1 shallot, 
meat (No. 202). I pepper. 



6 chicken livers. 
brown sauce. 



1 oz. butter. 
I gill cream. 



salt, 
truffle. 



Wash the hvers, dry, and sHce them finely. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, 
chop the shallot, and fry it in the butter without browning ; then add the liver, and 
cook. Add to them enough brown sauce to bind, and season nicely with pepper 
and salt. Butter some small timbale moulds (six or eight), decorate each at the 
bottom with a star of truffle. Whip the cream liglitly, and stir it into the chicken 
forcemeat. With this line the little moulds. This should be done carefully, and 
the mixture pressed well into the moulds. Fill up the hollow centre in each with 
the liver preparation, cover the tops with a layer of forcemeat, smooth it with a 
knife so as to get it quite level. Place the timbales on a baldng-sheet containing a 
little water, cover with paper, and put in the oven for about fifteen to twenty 
minutes. When cooked, turn out the moulds on to a hot dish, pour some bro^vn 
sauce round the timbales, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 timbales. 

970. RIS D'AGNEAU AUX FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS (LAMBS' SWEETBREADS, 

WITH ARTICHOKES). 



6 lambs' sweet- 
breads. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 

2 ozs. bacon. 
1 bouquet garni. 



gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



J pint stock. 

butter. 

seasoning. 



2 egg-yolks. 

1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, drain, and trim them. Cut the carrot and onion into 
large pieces, put them into a saucepan, add the bacon sliced and the bouquet garni. 
Place the sweetbreads on this, and add the stock. Cover with a buttered paper 
and the lid of the stewpan, and cook over the fire or in the oven for twenty to thirtj? 
minutes. When done, take up the sweetbreads. Strain and reduce the stock, sldm 
it, add the Bechamel sauce and the egg-yolks. Bind over the fire, and season to taste. 
Arrange the artichoke-bottoms on a buttered tin, put into each a little of the sauce, 
place the sweetbreads on this, and pour over them the remainder of the sauce. 
Sprinkle well with the grated cheese and a little melted butter, put them into a hot 
oven for five minutes. Dish up, and serve with supreme or veloute sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable January to August. 
SiiHicient for 3 persons. 



CHAPTER IX 

HOUSEHOLD COOKERY (MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 

971. TO ROAST A JOINT. 

Weigh the joint, and allow a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, and one- 
quarter of an hour over. This time is for beef and mutton ; veal and pork will take 
a little longer. Have ready a well-made-up clear fire. Place the meat on the hook, 
and put it close to the fire for the first quarter of an hour in order to keep the gravy 
in by closing the pores ; after that time draw it farther away. The joint must be 
well basted during the process of cooking. Put the joint closer to the fire during 
the last quarter of an hour, so as to brown it nicely. When the joint is done, take 
it up, place on a hot dish, pour off the dripping carefully from the pan into a basin, 
])our some hot water or stock into the pan. stir it with a spoon in order to loosen 
the gravy which sticks to the bottom of the pan, season it with a little salt, and 
pour the gravy round the meat. 

972. TO BAKE A JOINT. 

Weigh the joint, and allow a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. Place 
Ihe joint on the grid on a double baking-tin ; the lower tin should contain hot water, 
so that the steam from it prevents the dripping from the meat burning. Place the 
meat in a very hot oven for the first ten minutes, in order to close the pores of the 
meat, and so keep in the goodness of the meat. After the first ten minutes, open 
the ventilator, so that the steam may escape. Baste the meat well during the 
cooking process. When cooked, dish the joint on a hot dish, and pour the gravy 
round. The gravy should be made in the same way as for a roast joint. 

973. TO BOIL A JOINT. 

Weigh the meat, and allow twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty minutes 
over. If the joint to be boiled is fresh meat, put it into a saucepan of boiling water 
containing enough water to cover ; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
and simmer gently until the meat is done. On no account allow the water to boil, 
or the meat will be tough. Salt meat should be put into cold water, and brought 
to the boil, then slowly simmered until done. When cooked, place the meat on a 
hot dish, and pour over it a little of the liquor it was cooked in. 

974. IRISH STEW, 

2 lbs. neck of mutton (middle). 3 large onions. I pepper. 

3 lbs. potatoes. ^ pint cold water. I salt. 

Cut the meat into pieces, take away some of the fat, but do not remove it all. 
Peel the potatoes and onions, slice the onions and some of the potatoes. Put a 
thick layer of sliced potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, sprinkle with salt and 
l>epper (black pepper for preference). On this put some sliced onion, then a layer 
of meat, more seasoning. Cover the meat with potatoes out in halves, again 



254 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



secasoning, and a layer of onions. Continue in this way until the ste^vpan is full 
The last layer should consist of small whole potatoes, thickly sprinkled with salt 
and pepper. Lastly, add the I pint of water, put on the lid of the stew-pan, and 
place on the stove, and cook very gently for two hours. The lid should bo removed 
as seldom as possible during the cooking process. When ready to serve, turn the 
stew on to a hot dish, piling the meat in the centre, and arranging the whole potatoes 
round. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 2|- hours. Seasonable in the winter 
months. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



975. STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 



IJ lbs. buttock steak. 
J lb. ox-kidncy. 
\ lb. flour. 



i lb. butter 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
I small onion (if liked). 



1 egg. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Cut the steak into thin slices. IMix together the tablespoonful of flour, about 
one teaspoonful of salt, and half of pepper. Dip each slice of steak in this, place 




Fig. 47. — Steak and Kidney Pie. 

a small piece of kidney and a tiny piece of fat on each, roll up, and place these rolls 
in a pie-dish. Chop the onion, and sprinkle it over the meat ; fill the dish three- 
parts full with water. Sieve the flour into a basin, add a little salt, break up the 
butter in the flour, rub it in with the fingers until the mixture looks like bread- 
crumbs ; then add by degrees enough water to make it into a stilT paste. Turn tlie 
paste on to a floured board, roll it out about ^ inch thick, and a size larger than the 
pie-dish. Wet the edge of the pie-dish, and line with a strip of the paste ; wet the 
edge again, and put on the cover. Trim round the edge with, a sharp knife. Make 
a hole in the centre of the crust in order that the steam may escape. Decorate 
round the incision with some leaves, with a rose or tassel in the centre. Beat up 
an egg on a plate, and brush the pie over with it. Bake it for about two hours. 
The pie should be put first into a hot oven to cook the paste, and when that is 
"ooked, put into a cooler place to cook the meat. 

Average cost, 2s. 2d. Time required, 2-| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 to 5 persons. 

If preferred, the following pastry can be used for meat pies : 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 255 

976. ROUGH PUFF. 
8 ounces flour. | 6 ozs. butter. | pinch of salt. | lemon-juice. | water. 
Sieve the flour and salt on to a paste-board. Cut the butter into three pieces, 
and put them in the flour. Make a well in the centre of the flour, squeeze in a 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice, add a little water, and mix all together, adding more 
water if necessary, until a stiff paste is made. The butter should not be broken up 
while mixing. Roll the paste out into a strip, fold it in three, turn it with the 
rough edges to the left, roll and fold it again. Do tliis twice more, so that it has 
four rolls, four folds, and four turns. It is now ready to use. If for pies and tarts, 
it should be rolled out to the size of the pie-dish, and used as in previous recipe. 

977. VEAL AND HAM PIE. 

1^ lbs. lean veal. I } lb. raw streaky bacon. I J teaspoonful grated lemon-rind. I salt. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. | 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. ' | lb. rough puff-pastry (No. 976). | pepper. 

Remove all skin and sinew from the veal, and cut it into dice. Cut the bacon 
in a similar way. Mix these together on a board with pepper, salt, the grated 
lemon-rind, and chopped parsley. Place this in a pie-dish with the sliced hard- 
boiled eggs in layers. Fill three-parts full with water. Roll out the paste, cut off 
a strip, and hne the edge of the dish. Put the rest of the paste over to form the 
lid. trim the edges and scallop them. Make a hole in the centre of the crust in 
order that the steam may escape while cooking. Cut out some leaves from the 
trimmings of the paste, and fix them round the centre of the pie. Beat up an egg, 
and brush the pie all over with it. Bake in a moderate oven for about one and a 
half hours. If the pie is to be served cold, melt I oz. of gelatine in Avater or stock, 
and pour it in through the top of the pie as soon as it comes from the oven. 

Average cost, 23. 3d. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

973. STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 
1 lb. flour. I 8 ozs. beef suet. | 1^ lbs. buttock steak. | \ lb. ox-kidney. | seasoning. 

Sieve the flour with half a teaspoonful of salt into a basin, chop the suet finely, 
and mix it into the flour ; add enough cold water to make it into a paste. Turn it 
out on to a floured board, cut off a piece, and put it aside to form the cover ; line 
a greased pudding-bisin with the paste. Cut the steak into slices, also the kidney, 
dip each slice into flour, season with salt and pepper, and arrange the meat and 
kidney in the lined basin, fill three parts full with water, roll out the piece of pastry 
that was put aside for the cover, place this on the top, join the edges of the paste 
together, and roll over. Dip the pudding-cloth into boiling water, sprinkle with 
flour, and tie it over the top of the basin. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling 
water, and boil for three hours. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, or, if pre- 
ferred, a napkin can be pinned round the basin, and thus sent to table. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3| hours. Seasonable at all times ; most 
suitable for winter months. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

979. FRICASSED STEAK. 
\\ lbs. steak. | 4 tomatoes. [ 1 Spanish onion. | l\ ozs. butter. | pepper. | salt. | rice. 
Trim the steak, taking away all skin, fat, and gristle. Cut into small squares, 
and flour them lightly. Peel the onion, slice it and the tomatoes. Melt the butter 
in a stew^an, put in the onion and the pieces of steak, and fry a nice brown ; add 
the tomatoes and \ pint of boiling water, season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
gently for one hour ; if necessary, during the process of cooking add more water. 
Serve with rice boiled as if for curry. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

PT. IV. 17 



256 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



980. PORK PIE. 

1 lb. pork. I salt. | pepper. | 1 lb. flour. | 6 ozs. lard. | 1 egg. | 1 gill cold water. 

Cut up the pork into dice. Put the lard into a small ste\\-pan, add the water to 
it, and let it come to the boil. Pass the flour and a little salt through a wire sieve 
into a basin, pour into this the boiling lard and water, mix into a paste with a spoon. 
As soon as it is cool enough, turn it on to a board, and knead well with the hands. 
Cut off a quarter of the paste, and keep in a warm place ; with the remainder, 
line a plain cake-tin, which should be well greased. Dip the pieces of pork into 
cold water, season with pepper and salt, and fill the mould with it. Roll out the 
piece of paste, which was put on one side, fit it on to the top of mould, press the two 
edges together, then trim. With the trimmings of paste, cut out some leaves, 
make a hole in the top of the pie, and arrange the leaves of pastry round it. Brush 
over with the egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. When cooked, 
gravy prepared as in last recipe should be poured in at the hole at the top. Serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 48.— Pork Pie. 



981. SPANISH BEEFSTEAK. 

1 lb. beefsteak. | 2 tomatoes, i 1 onion. | mashed potatoes. | pepper. | salt. 

Peel the onion and parboil it, then chop it finely. Place the steak on a buttered 
baking-sheet, season well with salt and pepper, cover it all over with the chopped 
onion, cut the tomatoes in slices, and lay them all over the onions ; season again 
with salt and pepper. Mix a little butter with the mashed potatoes, and put them 
over the tomatoes in a thick layer. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve at once very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

982. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

^ lb. flour. I 2 eggs. | 1 pint milk. | 1 lb. sausages. | seasoning. 
Sieve the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt. Make a hole in the centre, and 
break in the eggs, stir with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees half the milk. When 
smooth, beat the batter for fifteen minutes, then stir in the remainder of the milk. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 



257 



Skin the sausages, and cut each in half lengthways. Grease a pie-dish or Yorkshire 
tin, arrange the sausages in it, pour over the batter, and bake for about three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



983. HARICOT MUTTON. 



2 lbs. neck of mutton 
(middle cut). 



2 onions. 
2 carrots. 



2 ozs. dripping. 
1| pints water. 



1 turnip. 
1|^ ozs. flour. 



salt. 
pepper. 



Cut the mutton into pieces, trim it, and remove the fat. Melt the dripping 
in a large stevvpan, put in the meat, and fry it brown on both sides. When brown, 
take out the pieces of meat, add the flour, and stir it into the dripping, allowing it 
to colour ; moisten with the water, stir until it boils, then put back the meat. 
Cut the onions, carrots, and turnip into nice pieces, add them to the meat, seasoi? 
to taste with salt and pepper, bring to the boil, and skim well. Move the saucepan 
to the side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly for one and a half to two hours. 




Fig. 49. — Hakicot Mutton. 



When cooked, arrange the meat in a circle on a hot dish, place the vegetables in the 
centre, and pour the gravy over the meat. A few haricot beans added to this stew 
is an improvement. 

Average cost, 23. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



984. STEWED OX KIDNEY. 



1 pint stock or water. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1^ ozs. flour. 



1 ox-kidney. 
1 large onion. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, slice the onion finely, and fry it a nice brown 
colour in the butter, then add the flour, fry a little, and moisten with the water or 
Block ; stir until it boils ; let it cook for ten minutes, skim off the fat as it rises, then 
Beason to taste with pepper and salt. Wash the kidney well, and dry in a cloth , 
fut the kidney into thin slices, remove the fat from the centre ; then fry these slices 
in a little dripping or butter, brown it nicely, and put them into the prepared sauce. 
Stir a little water into the pan that the kidney was fried in, stir with a spoon in order 
to loosen the gravy that has come from the meat while frying ; let this boil ; then add 

17-- 2 



258 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



it to the kidney. Place the saucepan on the side of the fire, and cook gently for 
about one hour. To serv^e, turn the kidney and sauce on to a hot dish, and garnish 
round it with three-cornered pieces of toasted bread. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

985. ECONOMICAL PIE. 
1 lb. beefsteak. | 4 minced onions. | 1 oz. butter. | pepper. I salt. ] potatoes. 

Free the beefsteak from all fat and gristle. Cut it into dice, place it in a stew'pan 
with the butter and onions, pepper and salt. Let all simmer in its ovn\ juice until 
the meat is perfectly tender. If it is not allowed to cook too fast, there will be 
nearly \ pint of gravy ; it will take nearly two hours to cook thoroughly. Mash 
the potatoes, mix a little butter and milk with them, and season nicely. Transfer 
the meat and onions to a pie-dish, and cover it with the mashed potatoes. Mark 
the cover in squares on the top by crossing it with a knife, and bake for twenty 
minutes ; the crust should be nicely browned. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 21 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 50. — Economical Pie. 



2 lbs. buttock steak. 



12 onions. 



\ lb. flour. 
\ lb. suet. 



salt, 
pepper. 



986. SEA PIE. 

1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 

Peel the onions and turnip, scrape the carrot ; cut these vegetables in thin shoes. 
Cut the meat into thin pieces, season them with pepper, salt, and flour ; put the 
meat into a large stewpan in layers with the vegetables ; sprinkle each layer of 
vegetables with salt and pepper. Pour in enough cold water to cover the meat. 
Place the pan on the fire, and bring to the boil, and then let it simmer. Put the 
flour with a pinch of salt into a basin, chop the suet finely, and mix it into the flour ; 
add enough water to make it into a stiff paste, turn out on to a floured board, roll 
out into a round a size smaller than the saucepan. Put this paste over the meat 
in the stewpan, and simmer for one and a half hours, keeping the lid on all the time. 
When done, hft out the paste, and turn out the meat and vegetables on to a hot 
dish ; place the crust on the top, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 2d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 259 

987. RUSSIAN PIE. 

\ lb. rabbit. \ lb. beefsteak. I 1 teaspoonful parsley. 2 eggs. I 1 gill water 

^ oz. butter. vermicelli. I salt and pepper. 1 onion, i pastry. 

Break up the vermicelli very small ; grease a cake-tin, and cover it all over 
>vith the vermicelli, then line the tin carefully with very thin pastry. INIince the 
onion and parsley, cut the rabbit and steak into small dice, put the meat, onion, 
and parsley into a basin, add pepper and salt, beat the eggs, add them to the rest 
of the ingredients, stir in the water, and mix all mcII together ; put the mi.xture into 
the prepared cake-tin, cover with a piece of paste to form the lid. brush over witli 
egg, decorate with leaves of pastry, and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half 
hours. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

938. SCOTCH COLLOPS. 

1 lb. beofstoak. | 2 ozs. butter. | pepper. | salt. | a little (lour. | boiling water. 

Trim away all skin and gristle from the steak, and mince it fuiely. Dissolve 
the butter in a ste\vpan, put in the mince, let it simmer, stir well to prevent it 
gathering into lumps. In about ten minutes dredge a little flour over, add a little 
boiling water to moisten it, season with salt and pepper, let it simmer a minute 
longer, and serve very hot with mashed potatoes. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all timei. 
Sufficient for 4 2:)ersons. 

989. "CHINESE CHILO." 



scrag of mutton. I 2 onions. 
1 pint green peas. | 1 lettuce. 



salt and pepper. cayenne. [ 2 cloves. 

li pints water. 1 oz. butter. ! rice (No. 1,039). 



Cut off all the meat from the scrag of mutton, and mince it. Put the bones 
into a saucepan, add the water, one onion stuck with the cloves, salt, and pepper ; 
simmer for one hour. Mince an onion finely, and fry it in the butter until a golden 
brown, then add the meat, the peas, and the finely shredded heart of the lettuce. 
Stir these over the fke, then add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Skim the broth, and 
strain it into the meat mixture, and let the whole boil up ; then let it simmer gently 
for one hour ; stir occasionally. Boil some rice as for curry, make a border with it 
on a hot dish, and put the stew in the centre. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2\ hours. Seasonable in the summer months. 
Sufficient for 5 people. 

990. STEWED TRIPE. 

2 Iba. tripe. | 4 onions. | 3 ozs. butter. | 2f ozs. flour. | \h pints stock or water. | silt and pepper. 

Cut up the tripe into even-sized pieces ; peel the onions, and slice them. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the sliced onions, and fry them a nice brown ; then 
add the flour, brown a httle, stirring all the time ; then add the stock or water , 
season to taste with salt and pepper, stir until it boils, then put in the pieces of tripe, 
and simmer gently for one hour and a half ; if found necessary, add a little more 
stock. When the tripe is cooked, arrange it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and 
serve. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

991. CURRIED TRIPE. 



1 lb. tripe. 1 tablespooniul curry - 

2 ozs. butter. 



3 onions, 
stock. 



se<tsonmg. 

boiled rice (No. 1,039;. 



powder. 

Prepare tripe as in previous recipes. Peel and slice the onions, melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the onions and fry them brown, then stir in the curry-powder, 
cook a few minutes, add some stock, bring to the boil, season with pepper and salt, 



260 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

then put in the tripe, and cook slowly for one hour. When done, remove the grease, 
dish up, and serve with boiled rice. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, H hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

992. FRIED TRIPE. 



\\ lbs. tripe. 
4 ozs. tlour. 



3 eggs. 
1 onion. 



2 gill salad-oil. 4 tablespoonfuls milk. fried parsley (No. 195). 



2 i 

milk or stock. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). 



salt and pepper. 

Procure the tripe ready cleaned, cut it up in nice pieces about 3 inches square, 
put these into a saucepan, with a sliced onion and a little salt, cover with milk or 
stock, and boil gently for one hour. Drain the tripe, put it on a plate, and let it 
get cold. Sieve the flour into a basin, mix in the yolks of the eggs, put the whites 
into a separate basin. Mix the milk and oil together, stir this into the flour and 
eggs by degrees, mix until it is a smooth paste, then heat well ; just before frying, 
wliisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the batter. 
Have ready some hot frying fat, dip each piece of tripe into the batter, drop it into 
the fat, and fry a golden browii ; continue in this way until all the pieces are used up. 
When done, dish up on a napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and send 
up the tomato sauce separately in a sauce tureen. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, \h hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

993. TRIPE AND ONIONS. 
2 lbs. tripe. | 4 large onions. | pepper. | 1 pint milk. | 1 oz. flour. | salt. 

If possible, get the tripe ready cleaned. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold 
water, and bring to the boil. Take up the tripe as soon as the water boils, cut it 
Into neat pieces about 3 inches square. Put the tripe into a saucepan, cover with 
cold water, bring to the boil, and allow it to simmer gently for two to three hours. 
At the end of that time the tripe should be tender. Drain off the water (this can 
be used for making potato or pea soup), mix the flour in a basin with the milk, add 
this to the tripe, stir until it boils, then mix in the boiled onions, chopped finely, salt 
and pepper ; let all boil together for another fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 7d. Time required, 3| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

994. TRIPE STEWED (BROWN). 

2 lbs. tripe. | 2 lbs. onions. | 1 pint water. | 2 ozs. dripping. | 1^ ozs. flour. I seasoning. 

Blanch the tripe ; put it in cold water, and bring to the boil ; drain it, and cut 
into neat pieces 3 inches square. Peel and slice the onions. Melt the dripping in a 
Btewpan, put in the onions, and fry them a nice brown colour, then add the flour, 
cook for a few minutes, then add the water, stir until it boils, season with salt and 
pepper, put in the tripe, and simmer gently for two hours. As soon as the tripe is 
tender, dish up and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

995. MUTTON CUTLETS. 

seasoning. breadcrumbs. 

1 egg. mashed potato. 

Saw off the chine bone — that is, the bone at the thick end ; this is best done by 
the butcher. Cut the cutlets, each with a bone ; trim the cutlets neatly, taking 
away most of the fat, leave ^ inch of bone bare at the top. Beat up the egg on a 
plate, sprinkle the cutlets with pepper and salt, dip them in the beaten egg, then into 
breadcrumbs. Put about 1 oz. of dripping or lard into a frying-pan ; as soon as it is 
hot, put in the cutlets, and fry a golden brown. When done on one side, turn them, 
and let them bro^vn on the other side. Shape a circular border of mashed potato 



1| lbs. best end neck 
of mutton. 



dripping or lard, 
tomato sauce (No. 77). 



8 mutton cutlets, i piece of celery. 

1 carrot. 1 clove. 

1 onion. | | pint stock. 



salt. 

spinach or peas. 

chopped parsley. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY [MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 261 

on a hot dish, dress the cutlets on the top, overlapping each other, pour the sauce 
round, and fill the centre with any kind of cooked vegetable — i.e., spinach, peas, 
beans, etc. Place a cutlet-frill on the end of each bone, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

996. BRAISED MUTTON CUTLETS. 

^ pint brown sauce 

(No. G). 
pepper. 

Cut the mutton cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton ; scrape the carrot 
peel the onion, and cut both these in slices. Cut up the celery, put the vegetables 
in a stewpan, add the clove and the stock, place the cutlets on the top, and braise 
slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, take up the cutlets, press 
them between two baking sheets, and let them cool. Strain the liquor from the 
braise into a clean stewpan, add the brown sauce to it, reduce a little, season to 
taste, and add a little chopped parsley. Place the cutlets in this sauce, and let 
them stew gently in it for a quarter of an hour. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over, and fill the centre of the dish with cooked spinach or 
peas. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, U hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

997. BOILED MUTTON, 
best end of the neck of mutton. | mashed turnips. | caper sauce (No. 15). ] butter. 

The best end of the neck of mutton or the leg is the most suitable for boiling, 
[f the neck is used, trim off some of the fat, and remove the chine bone. Place the 
mutton in a saucepan of boiling water, sufficient to cover, let it come to the boil, 
remove the scum, and then let it simmer gently until the meat is done. It 
must not cook quickly, or the meat will become hard. When the mutton is 
tender, dish it on a hot dish. Mash some turnips, mix some butter with them, 
and send them to table with the mutton, also a tureen of caper sauce. The time 
usually allowed for boiling meat is 20 minutes to the pound, and 20 minutes over ; 
but if the meat cooks very slowly, it may require longer than this. The water 
the mutton is cooked in should be kept, as it makes an excellent foundation for 
soups or gravies. 

Average cost, uncertain ; depends on size of mutton. Time required, 20 minutes 
to the pound and 20 minutes over. Seasonable at all times. 

998. BOILED CHICKEN AND EGG-SAUCE. 



1 chicken, 
stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 pint milk. I \ onion. 

2 eggs. I small carrot. 



12 peppercorns, 
tiny blade of mace, 
salt. 



\\ ozs. flour. I 1 bay-leaf. 

Truss the chicken for boiling, put it in a saucepan of boiling stock or water, 
sufficient to cover, bring to the boil, skim and simmer gently until tender. The 
times to cook will depend on the size of chicken — from one to one and a half hours. 
While the chicken is cooking prepare the sauce. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot ; 
put these into a saucepan with the milk, add the peppercorns, mace, and bay-leaf ; 
bring to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. Melt the butter in a small steAvpan, 
stir in the flour, whisk this into the boiling milk. As soon as it is smooth, take out 
the whisk, and use a wooden spoon. Cook for ten minutes, then strain. Chop the 
whites of two hard-boiled eggs ; add this to the sauce, season to taste with salt, 
pour the sauce over the boiled chicken, rub the yolks of the eggs through a wire 
sieve, and sprinkle it over the chicken. Chop a little parsley, and put a little here 
and there on the bird. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 to li hours. Seasonable all 
the year. 



262 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



999. SAVOURY STEW, WITH SUET DUMPLINGS. 



1 lb. lean beef. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



IJ ozs. dripping. 
1 pint cold water. 



IJ ozs. flour. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 
J turnip. 



salt, 
pepper. 



For Dumplings. 



4 ozs. flour. I 2 ozs. suet. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the onion and turnip, scrape the carrot. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, 
slice the onion as soon as the dripping is hot, put in the onion and fry it brown, 
then add the flour and let it cook until browTi, stirring all the time ; then add 
the water and vinegar, the vegetables sliced, pepper and salt. Cut the meat into 
thin slices, and add it to the rest of the ingredients. Simmer for one hour ; then 
add the dumplings, and cook for half an hour longer. To make the dumplings : 
Chop the suet, sieve the flour into a basin with a little salt, mix in the suet, and 
add just sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Divide this paste into 
seven or eight portions, make each piece into a ball. When ready to serve, lift the 
meat out on to a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and put the vegetables neatly on 
the top ; arrange the dumplings round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,000. FRICASSE OF CHICKEN. 

1 large chicken. 

1 onion. 

J gill cream. 

Truss the chicken as for boiling. Put the chicken into a saucepan with just 
sufficient hot water to cover it, bring to the boil, and simmer gently until the bird 
is cooked. Take it up, and let it cool. Measure half a pint of the water the chicken 
was boiled in. Put this into a stewpan with the milk, peel the onion, scrape a small 
carrot, put the onion and half the carrot, the bouquet garni, celery, peppercorns, 
and mace into the milk and stock ; put it on the fire, and bring to the boil slowly ; 
simmer very gently for a few minutes. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in 
the flour, cook over the fire a little without bro^vTling, then whisk it into the boiling 
stock. Cook slowly for ten minutes ; season with salt, and add the cream. Cut 
the chicken into nice joints. Put these into a clean saucepan, strain the sauce over, 
put it on the fire and heat up ; make quite hot without boiling. Dish up on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over the chicken, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for six persons. 

1,001. CHICKEN, WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 



bouquet garni. 


1^ ozs. flour. 


piece of mace. 


6 pepper 


piece of celery. 


\ pint white 


seasoning. 


corns. 


2 ozs. butter. 


stock. 


\ pint milk. 


\ carrot. 



1 chicken. 
1 oz. butter. 



I lb. tomatoes. 
1 onion. 



I oz. flour. 



salt, 
pepper. 



I a little stock. 

Cut the chicken into neat joints. One chicken will divide into eight nice pieces. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chicken, slice the onion, and add it. Fry 
quickly in the butter to a golden brown, then mix in the flour, a little stock, and 
the tomatoes cut in slices. Stir until it boils, let it simmer for half an hour, then take 
out the pieces of ch-'cken, and rub the sauce through a hair-sieve. Return to tha 
stewpan, season to taste with salt and pepper, put in the pieces of chicken, and 
place on the fire to finish cooking. It should be ready as soon as it comes to the 
boil. Dish up on a hot dish in pyramidal form, arranging it so as to have the best 
parts on the top ; pour the sauce over, and serve. A cold, cooked chicken can be 
dressed in the same way. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 263 



1 rabbit. 

2 ozs. dripping. 



1,002. FRICASSE OF RABBIT. 

salt. 



1 oz. Hour. 
1 onion. 



\ lb. lean | 1 pint milk, 
ham. rashers of bacon. 



pepper. 



Wash and clean the rabbit, cut it up into neat joints ; melt the dripping in a 
stewpan, and fry the pieces of rabbit lightly, but do not allow them to brown. 
Take out each piece directly it is cooked on the outside, and keep it warm. Stir 
the flour into the butter, and when it is smooth, add the milk ; then put in the 
rabbit, the slices of ham, and the onions sliced. Season to taste with pepper and 
salt. Allow it to simmer gently for one hour and a half. Roll the rashers of bacon, 
and put them on a skewer. Place this in the oven to cook. Serve the rabbit, 
with the sauce poured over, and garnished with the rolls of bacon. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,003. RAGOUT OF RABBIT. 



1 rabbit. I h turnip. 
1 carrot. 1 oz. Hour. 



pepper and salt. 
i lb. bacon. 



1 onion. 
1 shallot. 



Wash and clean the rabbit, and cut it up into neat joints. Cut the bacon in 
nice pieces, and fry them in a stewpan. Cut the vegetables in slices, put them with 
the pieces of rabbit into the bacon fat, and fry brown together ; then add the flour ; 
stir until brown. Then add \h pints of water. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Simmer for one hour and a half. Serve the rabbit with the sauce poured 
over, the bacon round, and the vegetables heaped up on the top of the rabbit. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,004. PULLED RABBIT. 



1 rabbit. 
1 onicn. 



lemon-peel. 1 bouquet 1 6 peppercorns. | chopped parsley. 

1 oz. butter. 



salt. 

h oz. flour. 



garni. | J pint stock. i mashed potatoes. 

Wash the rabbit. Put into a saucepan sufficient water to cook the rabbit ; 
add to it the onion, peppercorns, herbs, lemon-peel, and salt. When it boils, put 
in the rabbit, and cook until tender. When done, take up the rabbit and let it cool. 
Boil the liver, and chop it. Take all the meat oflf the rabbit, and pull the flesh into 
flakes ; add the livers ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. 
Melt 1 oz. of butter in a ste\\T)an, stir in | oz. of flour, add h pint of the water tint 
the rabbit was boiled in, stir over the fire until it boils, then put in the rabbit mix- 
ture. Let all simmer together for about ten minutes. Make a border of mashed 
potatoes on a hot dish, put the rabbit in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, I hour. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufiicient for 5 persons. 

1,005. RABBIT-PIE. 



1 rabbit. 
\ lb. bacon. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1 tcaspoonful chopped | lb. rough puff-pastry 

(No. 97G). 



parsley. 

Wash the rabbit in cold water, dry it in a cloth, and cut up into joints as small 
as possible. Slice the bacon, and make the pastry. Place a layer of pieces of rabbit 
in a pie-dish, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over some chopped parsley ; over 
this put a layer of bacon slices ; continue in this way until the rabbit and bacon are 
used up, and the pie-dish is full. Three parts fill the dish with cold water. Roll 
out the pastry, cover the pie with it, decorate with leaves of pastry, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven for one and a half hours. The pie should be placed first in a 
bot part of the oven to cook the pastry, and then in a cooler place to fuiisli the meat. 
A piece of paper may be put over the top of the pie if there is any danger of the 
pastry getting too brown. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



264 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 rabbit, 
salt. 
pepper. 
1 onion. 



parsley. 
2 ozs. breadcrumbs, 
a little milk. 



I pint stock. 
1 yolk of egg. 
4 ozs. suet. 
I oz. flour. 



1,006. ROAST RABBIT, STUFFED. 

1 teaspoonful chopped herbs, i 1 tablespoonful chopped 
grated rind of ^ a lemon. 
1 oz. dripping, 
slices of bacon. 

Wash the rabbit in cold water, wipe it inside. Chop the suet ; put it into a basin ; 
mix the breadcrumbs, herbs, and parsley, with it. Add the grated lemon-rind, 
pepper, and salt. Beat the yolk of the egg with a little milk, and add to the dry 
ingredients in the basin. The mixture must just bind. Fill the rabbit inside with 
the stuffing, and sew it up with string. Truss the rabbit, and place on a baking- 
tin with some dripping. Put it in the oven, and bake for about one hour, keeping 
it well basted. Slice the onion, melt the 1 oz. of dripping in a small stewpan, put 
in the sliced onion, and fry it brown. Add the flour, stir until it is Hghtly coloured ; 




Fig. 51. — Koast Rabbit, Stuffed. 



then add the stock ; stir until it boils. Let it simmer for ten minutes ; season to taste, 
and keep hot. When the rabbit is done, take it out of the oven, dish on a hot dish, 
and serve with the sauce. Garnish with cooked rolled bacon. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,007. BOILED RABBIT. 

1 rabbit. | onion (No. 56) or parsley (No. 61) sauce. 

Wash the rabbit well in warm water in order to remove all the blood from the 
head and neck, truss it, and put into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for 
one hour if large, or forty-five minutes if small. Serve with onion or parsley sauoe, 
either poured over the rabbit or served separately. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August to March. Suffi- 
cient for 4 to 6 persons. 

A LA MARENGO. 



1 rabbit. 

\ gill olive oil. 

1 oz. butter. 



1,008. RABBIT 

1 glass white wine. 
12 fresh mushrooms, 
mashed potato. 



^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
fried croutons of bread. 



meat glaze. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth, cut it into joints not too large, season each 
piece with salt and pepper. Put the butter and oil into a saute-pan ; as soon a3 
it is hot, put in the pieces of rabbit, and fry them a golden brown all over. When 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 



265 



nicely coloured, drain off the fat, and add the wine. Let this reduce, then mix in 
the brown and tomato sauces. Cook gently over the fire for forty-five minutes. 
While the rabbit is cooking, prepare the mushrooms, place them on a buttered tin, 
season with pepper and salt, put a tiny piece of butter on each, and cook in the 
oven for about ten minutes. Fry some croutons of bread cut in crescent shapes, 
brush these over with meat-glaze. When the rabbit is cooked, arrange a flat bed of 
potato on a hot dish, dress the pieces of rabbit on this in a pile, skim the sauce free 
from all fat and scum, strain it over the rabbit, garnish the dish with groups of 
mushrooms and the croutons, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 52. — Rabbit Cream. 



1 rabbit. 
^ carrot. 



1,009 

^ turnip. 
1 onion. 



RABBIT CREAM. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. fiour. 



gill stock. 



pepper, 
salt. 



2 eggs. 

Take the meat of the rabbit off the bones ; put the bones into a stewpan with 
the carrot, turnip, and onion ; cover with cold water. Put the pan on the fire, 
bring to the boil, and simmer gently for one hour or longer. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir until the mixture leaves the sides 
of the saucepan clean. Cut up the meat (| lb.), put it in a mortar, pound it well, 
add the eggs, and mix thoroughly. Season with pepper and salt ; rub the mixture 
through a vnve sieve. Butter a timbale mould, put in the mixture, press it down 
well. Place in a steamer, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook for about 
thirty minutes. Strain the liquor from the bones, measure off h pint, thicken it 
with h oz. of flour, cook for ten minutes. When the rabbit cream is ready, turn it 
out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August to March. Suffi- 
cient for 2 or 3 persons. 

1,010. RABBIT A LA PROVENCALE. 
1 rabbit. 1 glass white wine. I ^ pint Espagnole sauce salt. 

1 onion. 2 oz. butter. 1 (No. 33). pepper. 

Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth, cut it up into neat joints. Melt the butter 
in a saute-pan, shce the onion, put the rabbit and the onion into the melted butter, 
and fry the pieces of rabbit a nice brown. When browTied sufficiently, strain off 



266 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

the butter, and add the wine. Reduce a little, then stir in the sauce, season with 
salt and pepper, cover with a lid, and let the contents of the pan stew gently until 
the meat is tender. When the rabbit is done, take it up, dish it on a hot dish in a 
pile. Reduce the sauce until of a good consistency, skim off the fart, and strain it 
over the pieces of rabbit. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to March 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,011. CURRIED RABBIT. 



1 rabbit. 



2 onions. 



pepper. 



2 tablespoonfuls curry-powder. \ lemon. 

4 ozs. dripping. 1 apple. | pint of water or stock. salt. rice (No. 1,039). 

Melt the dripping in a stewpan, peel and chop the onion, put it into the hot fat, 
and fry brown. Wash the rabbit, dry it, and cut it up into nice joints. Strain 
the onions when done, return the fat to the steAv^an, put in the pieces of rabbit, 
and fry them a few minutes ; sprinkle in the curry-powder, and cook for five 
minutes longer ; then add the fried onions, the chopped apple, and the water or 
stock. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer gently for two hours. Add the 
lemon- juice just before serving. Dish the rabbit neatly, and send a dish of well- 
boiled rice to table with it. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable, September to 
March. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,012. LEG OF BEEF, STEWED. 
4 lbs. leg of beef. | 2 carrots. | 1 turnip. | 2 onions. | seasoning. | 2 ozs. dripping. 

Choose a piece of the thick part of the leg for this dish. Melt the dripping in a 
large saucepan ; when it is hot, put in the meat, and fry it brown all over. When 
well fried, strain off the fat, and add to the meat 1 pint of water. Put on the lid, 
and simmer very slowly for one hour. Cut the carrots and turnip in quarters, peel 
the onions, and cut them also in quarters. Stew all together for one hour and a 
half longer. If stewed very slowly, this piece of meat will be very tender. Put the 
meat when done on a dish with the vegetables arranged round and the gravy poured 
over. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable at aU times 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 



1,013. STEWED STEAK. 



1 lb. beefsteak. 

2 ozs. butter or dripping. 



1 J ozs. flour. 



1 pint stock or water. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
^ turnip. 

C\it the steak into nice pieces about f inch thick. Melt the butter or dripping 
in a stowpan, cut the onions in slices, scrape the carrot, peel the turnip ; cut them 
also in thin slices, put the vegetables into the hot fat, and fry bro^vn. When c^uite 
brown, add the flour, stir it into the vegetables, and fry for a few minutes ; then 
add the stock or water, stir until it boils, season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Fry the pieces of steak brown on both sides in a little fat or butter, put the pieces 
of meat as soon as they are sufficiently fried into the sauce, let it come to boiling- 
point ; then allow it to simmer for one hour and a half. Arrange the steak on a 
hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,014. FRIED STEAK AND ONIONS. 
1 lb. rump steak. | 3 large onions. | pepper and salt. | 2 ozs. butter or dripping. 

Peel the onions, and shce them into rings. Melt the dripping or butter in a 
large frying-pan ; as soon as it is hot, put in the steak, and fry it on both sides. It 
will take from eight to ten minutes to fry, according to the thickness of the steak. 
The onions should be fried at the same time in the pan with the steak, and should 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 267 

be cooked until they are a golden bro\\'n. Dish the steak, and arrange the onions 
round it. A little butter should be put on the steak, and a sprinkle of pepper and 
salt as soon as it is dished. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1 eo'c. 

pepper and salt. 

Dttle milk. 



1,015. LOIN OF MUTTON, STUFFED AND ROLLED. 

4 lbs. loin of mutton. | 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 

4 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 1 teaspoonful chopped herbs. 

4 tablespoonfuls suet. grated rind of i lemon. 

Bone the loin of mutton, take away the firm white fat that lies underneath the 
loin, chop it, and measure four tablespoonfuls into a basin. Add to it the bread- 
crumbs, parsley, and herbs — i.e., thyme, marjoram — season with, pepper and salt, 
add the grated lemon-rind, and mix all these ingredients together. Beat up the 
egg, and bind the mixture ■with it, adding a little milk if necessary. Spread this 
stuffing on the mutton, filling up the space from wliich the bone was removed. 
Roll up the loin lengthways, tie round securely with string, place it on a baking-tin, 
and put in the oven. Cook the loin for one hour and a half. Baste the meat well 
during the process of cooking. When done, take up the joint, and place it on a hot 
dish. Take oflf the string, and put it back in the oven with, the door open to keep 
hot while making the gravy. To do this, strain away all the fat from the baking- 
tin, put in some hot water, stir it over the fire to loosen the gravy that has adhered 
to the pan, add a little salt, make hot, and pour it over the meat. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1.016. MOCK QUENELLES. 

2 ozs. breadcrumbs. I 1 small onion, i ^ pint of bro^vn (No. 6) or 1 oz. butter. ; pepper. 

1 oz. raw meat, game, or fish. ' a little milk. | sauce veloute (No. 82). 1 egg. : salt. 

Put the breadcrumbs into a basin, pour a httle milk over them, and let them 
stand for a short time. When ready to use, put the breadcrumbs into a cloth, and 
squeeze out all the moisture. Melt the butter in a ste^-pan, add the breadcrumbs 
to it, and stir them over the fire mitil they are smooth and compact ; then add the 
egg, which should be first well beaten, and stir over the fire until the mixture is 
dry. ]\Iince the meat, pound well, and mix it into the rest of the ingredients in 
the steA^'pan. Stir well together, season nicely with salt and pepper. Turn the 
mixture on to a plate to cool. Shape the quenelles in the fo^o^^^ng manner : Take 
two dessertspoons, dip one of the spoons into hot water, fill it with the forcemeat, 
and shape into a dome shape with a knife dipped in hot water. Take the other 
spoon, dip it in hot water, insert it under the quenelle, and transfer it to the saute- 
pan in which it is to be poached. Now add some boiling water, the onion sliced, 
and a httle salt. Poach for ten minutes. Take up, drain, dish on a straight border 
of mashed potato, and pour the sauce over. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 quenelles. 

1.017. LIVER AND BACON. 

1 lb. calf's liver. | ^ lb. streaky bacon. | 2 tablespoonfuls flour. | pepper. | salt. 
Wash the liver, dry, and cut it in slices about | inch thick. ^Lx into the flour 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper ; dip the slices of fiver into it. Cut the 
bacon into very thin shces, take off the rind, and fry it in a frying-pan, turning it 
over once. Have ready a hot dish, put the bacon on it. Now fry the shces of hver 
in the bacon-fat ; they will take about ten minutes to cook. When the hver is 
sufficiently cooked, place it ua the centre of the dish, with the bacon arranged round. 
Put into the pan about 1 oz. of flour, stir it with a spoon until it is brown ; then add 
i pint of water, stir until it boils. Let it cook a few minutes, then pour ove'* the 



268 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

liver. A fried onion or a few tomatoes cooked in the pan before the gravy is made 
is an improvement. Serve it on the top of the Hver. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 



cient for 6 persons. 



1,018. BRAWN. 



^ pig's head. I 1 bunch of herbs. 1 small teaspoonful I 2 onions. I pepper, 

salt and saltpetre. I 1 blade of mace. of powdered sage. I 2 cloves. | cayenne. 

Wash the pig's head well in warm water, take out the brains, and throw them 
away. Rub the head all over with a little salt and saltpetre, and let it lie for three 
days ; then put the head in a saucepan with cold water, and boil it until the bones 
will come out easily ; then chop the meat in small pieces. Put the bones and the 
liquor back into the saucepan, add the onions cut in quarters, the bunch of herbs 
cloves, and mace, bring to the boil, and cook for half an hour ; then strain the stock 
into a basin. Season the meat with salt, a little white pepper, and a tiny pinch of 
cayenne. Stir in the powdered sage, add sufficient of the stock to moisten, but do 
not make it hquid. Put into a mould, press it well down, and, when cold, it i.s 
ready for use. If liked, the tongue can be cooked, skinned, and put in the centre 
of the brawn. This must be done before pressing it into the mould. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, uncertain. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 4 persons. . 



1,019. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF. 



6 lbs. brisket of beef. 
2 onions. 
2 carrots. 



12 peppercorns. 
1 blade of mace. 
4 cloves. 



4 alispice. 
salt. 

5 pints of water. 



1 turnip. 

celery. 

bouquet of herbs. 

Scrape the meat clean, put it into a large saucepan with the water. Peel the 
onions and turnip, scrape and wash the carrots, add them to the meat with the 
herbs and spices. Wash the celery, cut it up, and add that also. Bring to the boil, 
and then let it simmer for three hours. Take the meat out of the saucepan, remove 
the bones, place it between two tins, put a heavy weight on the top, and press until 
cold. As soon as it is cold, glaze it with meat-glaze (No. 247), and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 12 persons. 

1,020. STEWED BREAST OF VEAL. 



breast of veal. 
2 onions. 



18 pepper- | celery, 
corns. I salt. 



2 carrots. 
1 turnip. 

Skin the onions, peel the turnip, scrape the carrots, wash and cut the celery. 
Put these vegetables into a saucepan with the breast of veal, cover with hot water, 
and bring to the boil. Skim well, then add the seasoning. Stew the veal very 
slowly for two hours and a half. Dish up, and serve with parsley sauce poured 
over. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

1,021. SAUSAGE ROLLS. 
J lb. sausages. | 1 lb. flour. | seasoning. | ^ lb. dripping or butter. | 1 egg. 

Skin the sausages, and cut each in half lengthways. Sieve the flour into a basin, 
add a pinch of salt and the dripping or butter. Rub them well together, then mix 
with a little water (enough to make into a stiff paste). Turn it out on to a floured 
board, and roll it out about ^ inch thick. Cut into squares, place half a sausage on 
each piece of pastry, fold over, and press the edges together. Place the sausage 
rolls on a greased baking-tin, beat up the egg, and brush the rolls over with it. 
Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When done, take up, dish, and garnish 
with sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost. Is. to Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September 
to April. Sufficient for 6 rolls. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 



269 



1 pint stock. 
6 peppercorns, 
forcemeat balls. 



\ turnip, 
pepper. 

salt. 



1,022. FRIED SAUSAGES. 

1 lb. sausages. | 1 oz. dripping. | mashed potatoes. 

Prick the sausages with a fork to prevent them bursting. Melt the dripping in 

a frying-pan ; as soon as hot, put in the sausages, and fry them brown all over. 

They will take six to seven minutes. Arrange the mashed potatoes in a pile in the 

centre of a dish, and put the sausages round. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,023. JUGGED HARE. 

1 hare. 1 bouquet garni. I 1 pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
1 onion. 4 ozs. streaky bacon. | 2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly. 
1 carrot. 1 glass port wine. 12 small button onions. 

Skin the hare, cut it into neat joints, wash and dry them. Peel the onion and 
turnip, scrape the carrot, cut these into slices, and the bacon into dice. Put the 
bacon and butter into a stewpan, add the button onions, and fry a httle, then put 
in the rest of the vegetables and the pieces of hare ; fry a light brown colour. Cook 
for about ten minutes, stirring constantly ; add the stock, the bouquet garni, and 
peppercorns ; boil up, skim well, and add the sauce. Cover with the Hd of the pan, 
put on the side of the fire, and cook gently for about one hour ; then take out the 
pieces of hare, and put them into another stewpan, or into an earthenware jar. 
Strain the sauce, add the wine and red-currant jelly to it, pour it over the hare, 
add the button onions, place the jar in the oven, or if in a stewpan on the fire, and 
simmer very gently for about one hour longer. When the hare is ready to serve, 
dress the pieces neatly on a dish, sauce over with the sauce, and garnish round 
with the forcemeat balls. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



2 calf's feet. 
1 onion. 



1,024. STEWED CALF'S FEET 

2 cloves. I 1 blade of mace, 
salt. I bouquet garni. 

For Sauce. 



2 or 3 slices of 
bacon. 



1 oz. butter, 
pepper. 



1 oz. butter. | pint liquor from the feet. 1 gill milk. 

1 oz. flour. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. seasoning. 

Bone the feet, wash them, and soak in warm water for two hours. Slice the 
onion, put it in a saucepan with the slices of bacon, herbs, and spices ; add the 
butter, lay the feet on this, and cover with cold water ; bring to the boil, and simmer 
gently for three hours. Lift out the feet carefully, dish, and pour the following 
sauce over : Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, then add | pint of 
the liquor that the feet were cooked in. Stir over the fire, and boil for five minutes ; 
then add the milk, parsley, and seasoning. Bring to the boil, and use as directed. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. Time required, 5 hours. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 2 to 3 persons. 



2 lbs. lean veal, 
larding bacon. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1,025 

2 shallots. 
8 mushrooms 
1 oz. flour. 



VEAL NAVARIN. 



2 yolks of eggs, 
chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper. 



^ pint white stock. 
1 glass white Avine. 
^ gill cream. 

Cut the veal into squares all the same size ; lard each piece with a few strips of 
larding-bacon. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the meat, and fry over the 
fire for a few minutes. Skin the shallots and mushrooms, chop them finely, and 



add them to the veal 



let all cook together for a few minutes. 



Then sprinkle over 



270 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



the flour, stir and add the wine and stock ; bring to the boil, cook gently for half 
an hour, or until the veal is tender. Put the veal on a deep dish, and then finish the 
Bauce. Beat the egg-yolks in a basin, add the cream, stir these into the sauce, 
but do not let it boil ; season to taste with pepper and salt, add a little chopped 
parsley, pour over the meat, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,026. VEAL CUTLETS WITH BACON. 



Ulbs. fillet of veal, 
slices of bacon. 



2 ozs. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



bro^\'n sauce 
(No. G). 



salt, 
egg- 



flour, 
pepper. 



1| lbs. fillet veal. 

2 ozs. cooked ham. 

a few slices of fat bacon 



1 oz. breadcrumbs. 


legg. 


1 oz. butter. 


pepper. 


1 carrot. 


1 gill stock 


salt. 


1 onion. 


\ gill sherry. 



Cut the fillet into neat pieces, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, and trim away 
all fat and skin. Season each piece of meat with salt and pepper, dredge verj 
hghtly with a little flour, dip in beaten egg, and toss in breadcrumbs. Melt the 
butter in a frying-pan, make very hot, and skim off the froth as it rises ; put 
in the cutlets, and fry on both sides a golden brown colour. Cut the slices of bacon 
very thin, roll each one up, put them on a skewer, place this on a baking-tin, and 
cook in the oven till done. Drain the cutlets, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, 
place the rolls of bacon in the centre, and pour the sauce round. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1027. VEAL ROLLS. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
1^ gills tomato sauce (No. 77). 
\ teaspoonful lemon-rind. 

Cut the fillet into thin slices, trim them all to the same size, flatten them with a 
cutlet-bat, and take away all skin and fat. Chop the trimmings of the meat finely, 
put this into a basin, add the breadcrumbs, parsley, ham chopped finely, pepper, 
salt, and grated lemon-rind, mix all well together, with as much of the well-beaten 
egg as is necessary to make into a stiff paste. Season the slices of veal, and spread 
a layer of this mixture over them ; roll each up, and tie with a piece of string. 
Put into a stewpan a few slices of fat bacon and the butter ; let the butter melt over 
the fire. Scrape the carrot and peel the onion ; cut each in slices, put them into 
the butter, and fry for a few minutes, then put in the veal rolls, and let them bro\vn 
a little. Add the stock, tomato sauce, and wine. Put the lid on the pan, and put 
it in the oven to cook for one hour, or it can be put on the fire. When the meat is 
cooked, take up the rolls, remove the string, dish up, and keep hot. Strain the sauce 
into a clean saucepan, boil up, take off the fat, pour over the meat, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,028. BRAISED CALVES' TONGUES. 



3 or 4 calves' tongues. 

^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

\ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 



1 of. butter, 
pepper. 

salt. 



8 peppercorns. 1 onion. 

2 lbs. spinach. 1 clove. 

1 gill stock. 1 carrot. 

Obtain the tongues salted or pickled, put them into cold water, and soak for 
about two hours. Trim them, removing the windpipe and fat. Then put them 
into a large stewpan, with enough water to cover them ; add the onion, stuck with 
one clove, the carrot and peppercorns ; bring to the boil, and cook gently for about 
one hour. Take them up, and skin whilst hot ; then place the tongues in another 
stewpan, with the brown and tomato sauces and the stock. Cook them in this 
slowly for another hour, either in the oven or over the fire. Well wash and pick 
the spinach. Cook it until tender, drain it, and rub through a sieve. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the spinach, and mix well over the fire ; stir until quite 
hot ; season with salt and pepper. (A little cream added to spinach is a great 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 271 

improvement.) Cut the tongues in halves. Arrange the spinach in the centre of a 
liot dish, dress the tongues on the spinach, pour a httle of the sauce round the 
dish, and send up the rest separately. Serve \evy hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 or S persons. 



seasoning. 2 tablespoonfuls fresh breadcrumbs, 

1 egg. I 2 tablespoonfnis chopped parsley. 



1,029. STUFFED AND ROLLED BEEFSTEAK. 

2 lbs. beefsteak. 

\ teaspoonful mixed herbs. 

4 fablespoonfuls chopped suet. dripping. 1 rind of 1 lemon. 

Mix together the chopped suet, breadcrumbs, parsley, herbs, and seasoning. 
Peel the lemon A^ery thinly, chop it, and add to the dry ingredients. Beat up the 
egg, mix into the stuffing, using a little milk if the egg is not sufficient to bind 
it. Beat the steak with a cutlet-bat, place a layer of the stuffing over, and 
then roll it up. Fasten it with skewers or string. Place on a tin, with dripping 
on the top of the roll, and cook in the oven for about thirty-five minutes, basting 
it frequently with the dripping. Dish up on a hot dish, removing the skewers or 
string ; pour away the dripping, and make gravy, as for roast meat, with the essence 
of the meat Avhich is left in the pan. Pour this over the steak, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,030. GOULASH OF BEEF (HUNGARIAN BEEF STEW). 

1 lb. lean beef. i 1 onion. 2 potatoes. pinch of paprika pepper. 

3 ozs. butter. I 2 tomatoes. I salt. I H &^^ brown stock. 

Trim the beef, cutting away ail skin and fat ; cut the meat into squares. Melt 
the butter in a ste^^-pan, put in the meat, chop the onion, and add that to the beef ; 
fry until the onions are a nice golden colour. Season with salt and paprika pepper. 
Add the tomatoes, peeled and cut in thick slices, also 1 gill of stock, cover the stew- 
oan, and cook in the oven for about half an hour. At the end of this time add 
the potatoes, cut in squares, and the remainder of the stock. Put again into the 
oven, baste frequently ; cook until the meat and potatoes are quite tender. When 
ready to serve, dish up on a hot dish, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time r-^quired, l\ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.031. PORTERHOUSE STEAK. 

Porterhouse steak is a slice of beef cut from the sirloin. The flank part is 
removed from it, and the chine bones. This steak is always grilled, and is generally 
served plain. 

1.032. OX-TO.MGUE, BRAISED. 

1 ox-tongue. I onion. 1 bouquet garni, j \ pint piquante sauce (No. 59). 

1 pint stock. 1 small carrot. ' 1 clox/e. i 6 thin shces of bacon. 

Trim the ox-tongue, which should he obtained salted or pickled ready for use. 
Blanch, and let it cool. Put into a fisb kettle or ste\A-pan, large enough to hold the 
tongue, the slices of bacon, the onion peeled and sliced, the carrot scraped and 
cut in pieces, the bouquet garni and ckve ; add the stock, put in the tongue, and 
cook until three parts done, then tak« it up, and skin it whilst hot. Strain the 
liquor it was cooked in, take off the fat. udd the piquante sauce, put the tongue into 
this, and finish cooking. Take it up when tender, cut it in shces. dish up, and pour 
the sauce over, and serve. Mashed ]-.otatoes, spinach, or peas served with the 
tongue is a great improvement. 

Average cost of tongue, 4s. to 6s. Time required, according to size. Seasonable 
all the 3'ear. Sufficient for S to 12 p^^ons. according to size. 

PT. IV. 18 



272 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOR 

1,033. CORNISH PASTIES. 



J lb. beefsteak. 
1 onion. 



Ijopper and salt. 
4 ozs. raw potatoes. 



2 sets of giblets. I f onion. 

1 lb. rump steak. I 1 bouquet garni. 



peppercorns, 
salt. 



1 lb. flour. 
^ lb. dripping. 

Cut the meat into dice ; wash and peel the potatoes, cut them the same size 
as the meat ; chop the onion finely. Mix the meat, potatoes, onion, and seasoning 
all together in a basin ; add to them about | gill of cold water. Sieve the flour 
into a basin with a pinch of salt ; rub in the dripping, make into a stiff paste with 
cold water. Turn on to a floured board, roll it out about \ inch thick. Cut the 
pastry into squares or rounds about 6 inches across, place a little of the meat mixture 
in the centre of each piece of pastry, wet the edges, fold over, and press together. 
Place them on a baking-sheet, and bake for about half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 J hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 or 9 pasties. 

1,034. GIBLET PIE. 

1 lb. flour. 
J lb. dripping. 

Clean the giblets thoroughly, put them into a stewpan, cover with cold water ; 
add the onion, peppercorns, and herbs ; bring to the boil ; add some salt, and skim 
well. Simmer gently for about two hours. Then take them up and let cool ; cut 
them in nice pieces the same size ; line the bottom of a pie dish with some pieces 
of rumpsteak ; season with pepper and salt ; now add a layer of giblets, and then 
some more steak and seasoning. Pour in the stock from the giblets, and season 
well. Sieve the flour with a httle salt into a basin ; rub in the dripping ; mix into a 
stiff paste with cold water. Put the paste on to a floured board, roll it out once 
a size larger than the pie dish, cut off a strip, and line the edge of the dish, then 
cover over the top with the rest of the pastry. Decorate with leaves, brush over 
with beaten egg, and bake in a brisk oven for one and a half hours. When the 
pastry is sufficiently coloured, cover with a piece of paper to prevent the crust 
getting too dark. 

Average cost, exclusive of giblets, Is. 6d. (sets of giblets can be bought separately 
for a few pence). Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable whenever the respective 
birds are in season. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,035. SUCKING-PIG. 

1 sucking-pig. | sage and onion stuffing (No. 207). | salad oil. [ apple sauce (No. 1,036). 

Wipe the sucking-pig (which should be about three weeks old), stuff the body 
with sage and onion stuffing, and sew it up. Rub it over with salad oil, and put 
it on a baking-tin ; place this in the oven, and roast for about two hours. Baste 
the pig well during the cooking process. When done, take it up, take out the string, 
dish, and keep hot. Strain off the grease, add a little good stock to the sediment in 
the baking-tin, and make the gravy. Serve this with the pig, also send up some 
apple sauce to table separately. 

1,036. APPLE SAUCE. 
2 lb. apples. j sugar. | water. 

Peel the apples cut in quarters, and take out the core. Slice the apples, not too 
thin ; put them into a stewpan, with a little sugar and water ; stew them over the 
fire until they become a pulp. 

N.B. — The amount of water to be added depends on the apple, as some kinds 
require more than others. 

Probable cost of sucking-pig, with sauce, 8s. Gd. Time required, 2 hours. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY {MEAT, POULTRY, ETC.) 273 



1,037. MEAT PATTIES. 

\ lb. puff-pastry. t i small onion. I salt. 

h lb. raw beef or mutton, i Hour. | pepper. 

Cut the meat into small dice ; chop the onion ; mix it with the meat, dredge with 
flour ; season with salt and pepper. Make i pound of rough pufE-paste ; give it 
four rolls and turns. At the last roll, roll it out thinly, fold in three, cut out five or six 
rounds with a cutter the size of the patty-pans that are being used for the purpose. 
Put these on one side for the covers. Now roll out the trimmings of the pastry, 
stamp out the same number of rounds as before, place these in the patty-pans, 
fill with the prepared meat mixture, pour in a little water to moisten, cover with the 
tops that were cut out first, press down the edges, make a small hole on the top of 
each, so as to allow the steam to escape. Place them on a baking-sheet, and put 
into a fairly hot oven for about half an hour. As soon as the pastry is cooked, 
place in a cooler part of the oven to finish cooking the meat. Dish up on a napkin, 
and serve hot or cold. Garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 




Fia. 53. — Meat Patties. 



18-2 



CHAPTER X 

INDIAN DISHES (CURRIES, ETC,) 

1,038. VEAL CURRY (DRY). 

^ rb. onions. 1 tablespoonful curry -powder. 1 small apple. 

1^ lbs. veal. pepper. 1 dessertspoonful chutney. 

salt. J lb. dripping or butter. rice. 

Cut the onions into slices ; melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onions, and 
(rv them a very dark brown. Strain away the fat from the onions. Cut the veal, 
which ought not to be too lean, into small pieces ; sprinkle the curry-powder over 
the meat ; put it to the onions, and stir over the fire for about five minutes, until a 
rich gravy comes from the meat. Then add a little water or stock down the sides of 
the saucepan ; mix it in by degrees. Mince the apple, and add it and the chutney 




Fig. 54. — Veal Curry. 



to the curry ; season with pepper and salt. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let 
it simmer gently for one hour and a half, or longer. Stir occasionally. Serve the 
curry with a dish of well-boiled rice. A squeeze of lemon-juice, just before sending 
to table, is considered an improvement by some. Beef or mutton may be cooked 
in the same way. 

Average cost, Is. 6d, Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,039. TO BOIL RICE. 

J lb. Patna rice. | 2 quarts water. | salt. 

Pick and wash the rice. Put the water into a large saucepan with a teaspoonful 

of salt, and bring to the boil. As soon as the water boils, sprinkle in the rice, and 

let it cook quickly for fifteen minutes, or until the rice is tender. Strain it into a 

274 



INDIAN DISHES {CURRIES, ETC.) 275 

colander, put it under the cold-water tap, and let it run for a few seconds, in order 
to wash away the sticky part of the rice. Spread it on a baking-sheet, and put into 
a mild oven to dry and get hot again. Turn it over occasionally with a fork. When 
dry and hot, every grain should be separate, and it is then ready to use. 



1,040. BUNDAHLOA (VINEGAR) CURRY. 



4 ozs. dripping or butter. 
1 lb. beeksteak or veal. 
1 teaspoonful allspice. 
3 large onions. 



boiled rice (No. 1,039). 
i pint good stock, 
salt. 
pepper. 



1 large teaspoonful curry-powder. 
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar. 
1 dessertspoonful Chili vinegar. 
1 dessertspoonful desiccated cocoanut. 

Chop the onions finely, melt the dripping or butter in a stewpan, put in the 
onions, and fry them a dark brown. As soon as they are brown enough, strain them 
out of the fat. Return a little of the meat to the stewpan, cut up the meat into small 
squares, sprinkle the curry-powder over the meat, and fry it in the fat for a few 
minutes, until brown, then add the fried onions, vinegars, allspice, cocoanut, pepper, 
and salt. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire, to simmer very slowly for two 
hours, or even longer. The lid of the saucepan should be kept on, but the curry 
might be stirred every now and then, and a little more stock may be added if 
necessary. The longer this curry is allowed to stand by the side of the fire, 
cooking very gently, the better it wiU be, as the flavours are thorouglily blended 
and mellowed thereby. Serve with a dish of weU-boiled rice, of which every grain is 
separate. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, as long as possible. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,041. BABOOTY. 



4 ozs. meat. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 egg- 
milk. 



4 ozs. soaked breadcrumbs. 1 onion. 

1 small dessertspoonful curry-powder. seasoning. 

Chop the meat finely. Soak some breadcrumbs in warm water, squeeze them 
dry, and weigh them, taking 4 ozs. Mix them with the meat, chop the onions, 
and add it to the meat and breadcrumbs. Stir in the curry-powder, seasoning, 
and the butter divided into small pieces. Moisten with milk if necessary, press 
into a buttered dish, beat up the egg, and pour it over the shape. Bake for one 
hour. Turn out, and serve with rice. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



1,042. KEBOB CURRY. 

1 lb. meat (beef, mutton, or veal). 

2 ozs. butter. 
4 onions. 



green gmger. 

stock. 

salt. 



pepper. 

1 tablespoonful curry-powder. 

I apple. 

Cut the meat into squares about H inches in size. Slice the ginger, skin two 
onions, and cut them in thick slices. Procure some small skewers 2 J inches in length. 
Take one of the skewers and run it through the centre of a piece of meat, then through 
a piece of ginger, and then a slice of onion. Repeat with another slice of meat, 
ginger, and onion. Proceed to fill the remainder of skewers in the same way, until 
all the ingredients are used up. Chop the remaining two onions, fry them brown 
in the butter, then add the curry-powder, and cook a few seconds longer ; then add 
the chopped apple, salt, and pepper, moisten with about h pint of stock, simmer for 
ten minutes ; then put in the skewers, cover with a lid, and simmer gently for about 
one and a half hours. Stir occasionally, and add a little more stock if found neces- 
sary. Serve without removincr the skewers ; dish up and pour the curry over. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 jjensons. 



276 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,043. VEGETABLE CURRY. 



2 small onions. 
2 potatoes. 



I cauliflower. 



2 carrots. 

I pint green peas. 

1 turnip. 



\ pint of stock. 

salt. 

pepper. 



2 ozs. butter. 
I tablespoonful of curry- 
powder. 

Chop the onions, melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry a nice brown ; then add 
the currj^-powder. Cook for a few seconds, then stir in the stock, and boil for about 
five minutes. Prepare the vegetables, and then boil them all separately in the 
usual way in boiling salted water. Take care not to cook them too much. Cut 
up the carrots, turnip, and potatoes into small pieces ; divide the cauliflower into 
sprigs ; put all these into the curry, and simmer together without allowing it to^ boil 
for twenty minutes. Season the curry with salt and pepper. A little lemon- juice 
may be added if liked. Serve with a dish of nicely boiled rice. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, after vegetables are cooked. 30 minutes. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 55. — Curried Eggs. 



1,044. CURRIED EGGS. 



1 large onion. 
1 small apple. 



1 dessertspoonful curry- 
powder. 



clarified fat. 

boiled rice (No. 1,039). 



stock. 
3 eggs. 



salt. 
pepper. 



Boil the eggs hard. This will take twelve to fifteen minutes. Then take them 
out of the boiling water, and put them into a basin of cold water. Chop the onion, 
and fry it in the fat until a nice brown ; then stir in the curry-powder, and cook 
for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Chop the apple and add it to the curry, 
moisten \ni\\ stock, season with salt, and cook gently for half an hour. Shell tho 
eggs, and cut each in half ; warm them in the curry. As soon as the eggs are hot, the 
curry can be served. Lift the eggs out carefully, dish the curry, and place the 
e^'gs standing in the sauce alternately, one with the yolk uppermost, the next half 
egg with the yolk turned down, and so on. Send to table with it a dish of nicely 
boiled rice. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



INDIAN DISHES, CURRIES, ETC. 



277 



1,045. COCOANUT CABBAGE. 



1 cabbage. 
3 or 4 onions, 
a little garlic. 



1 teaspoon ful curry-powder. 
1 teaspoonful tumeric. 
1 gill cocoanut. 



^ pint shrimps. 

salt. 

clarified fat or butter. 



Parboil a cabbage, which should have a good heart ; take it up, drain, and chop. 
Cut the onions in rings, and fry them in fat with a tiny piece of garlic. Add the 
curry-powder, tumeric, and salt ; mix all well together ; then put in the chopped 
cabbage, the cocoanut, and shrimps. Allow the whole to cook gently for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufh- 
aient for 5 persons. 



1,046. FISH CURRY. 



H lbs. fish (raw). 
2 onions. 



2 ozs. butter. 1 tablespoonful curry- I i pint stock, 

salt. powder. I juice of | lemon. 

Slice the onions, melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the onions a golden brown, 
not too dark. Stir in the curry-powder, and cook a few minutes longer ; then add 
the salt, lemon-juice, and stock, and simmer for five minutes. Take any kind 
of fish — i.e., soles, plaice, haddock, etc. Cut it up into square pieces, put it into the 
curry, and let it cook gently until done, which \vill be from ten to twenty minutes, 
according to the kind of fish used. Serve with boiled rice. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



1,047. CRAB CURRY. 



2 large cooked crabs. 

IJ tablespoonfuls curry-powder. 



2 onions. 

salt. 



2 ozs. butter, 
rice- 



Open the bodies of the crabs, crush the large claws, take out the meat, and cut 
in nice pieces. Smash the small claws and the shell, put them into a saucepan, 
and cover Avith cold water. Put on the fire and simmer for half an hour ; then strain, 
and use this stock for the curry. Chop the onions, melt the butter, and fry the onions 
a nice broM^n, then add the curry-powder, and cook a minute or two longer ; put in 
the pieces of crab, salt, and the prepared stock ; put over the fire, and cook gently 
for twenty minutes. Serve with boiled rice. Lobster or prawns can be curried in 
the same way. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, August to April. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 fowl. 

1 large onion. 



1,048. CHICKEN CURRY. 

2 ozs. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls curry-powder. I 2 gills water, 

salt. 2 ozs. sweet almonds. I rice. 



Cut up the fowl into neat joints, peel and chop the onion. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, put in the onion, and fry Avithout broA\Tiing. Put in the pieces of fowl, 
sprinkle over the currj'-powder, and cook over the fire for ten minutes, stirring all 
the time. Blanch the almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound well Avith a little 
water. When they are fine, add the rest of the water to them, then strain through a 
fine strainer. Add this almond milk to the fowl, put the curry on the fire, and 
simmer gently for half an hour. If the fowl is old, it will take longer. Before 
serv^ing, season with salt, and, if liked, a squeeze of lemon-juice. A dish of well- 
boiled rice should be sent up with the curry. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required. 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



278 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



SARDINE AND EGG CURRY. 



1 tablespooaful curry- 
powder. 



1 apple. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 
J lemon. 



1,049. 

6 sardines. stock. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 2 onions. 

Fillet the sardines- — that is, cut them down the back and take out the bone — 
boil the eggs hard, and when cooked, cut each in quarters or slices. Chop the onions, 
melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the onions a golden brown ; add the curry- 
powder, and cook for a few minutes longer ; then add the chopped apple, salt, juice 
of the lemon ; mix all well together, dilute enough stock to make a thick sauce, 
simmer for ten minutes. Arrange the sardines and quartered eggs on a dish, and 
pour the prepared curry over. Serve with boiled rice. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,050. CURRY BALLS. 



6 ozs. cold meat. 


2 ozs. rice. 


\ gill stock. 


pepper. 


1 teaspoonful curry- 


1 oz. butter. 


1 small onion. 


1 egg. 


powder. 


\ oz. flour. 


salt. 


breadcrumbs 



Chop the meat finely, first removing fat and gristle. Wash and boil the rice, 
drain and dry it in a cool oven. Chop the onion, melt the butter in a stewpan, 
fry the onion a light brown, mix the curry-powder and flour together. Stir them 
into the onions, cook for a few minutes, then add the stock, and boil until the sauce 
is very thick. Now add the meat and rice, mix thorouglily over the fire, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, turn the mixture on to a plate, let it get cold. As soon 
as the preparation is ready, divide it into equal pieces ; shape them into balls. Beat 
up the egg on a plate, dip the balls into it ; brush them over, and then lift out into 
breadcrumbs, and toss each ball in them until thickly coated. Fry them in very 
hot fat a golden-brown colour. Drain on paper, dish up in a pile, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. These balls can be made with any kind of meat — beef, 
mutton, veal, etc. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 balls. 



1,051. CURRIED SWEETBREADS. 



2 sweetbreads. 
1 oz. cocoanut. 



4 ozs. butter. 1 litablespoonfuls curry -powder, 
lemon-juice. 1 boiled rice (No. 1,039). 



2 onions, 
salt. 



J gill water. 
1 gill stock. 



Soak the sweetbreads for one hour ; drain, put them into a saucepan, and cover 
with cold water ; bring to the boil over the fire. As soon as the water boils, take 
up the sweetbreads, and put aside until quite cold. Chop the onions finely, melt 
2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan, fry the chopped onions, add the curry-powder. As 
soon as the onions are a light brown, cook a little longer, then add the stock, bring 
to the boil, season with salt and lemon-juice. When the sweetbreads are cold, 
cut them into slices, | inch thick, melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan ; 
put in the slices of sweetbread, and fry them lightly on each side. Then lift out the 
slices, and put them into the sauce. Pound the grated cocoanut in a mortar with 
a Httle water. When quite fine add the rest of the water ; strain this, and add the 
cocoanut milk to the curry (almonds can be used instead of cocoanut if preferred). 
Cook the sweetbread very gently by the side of the fire for about twenty to thirty 
minutes. When ready, turn the curry out on to a hot dish, and serve a dish of well- 
boiled rice with it. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



INDIAN DISHES, CURRIES, ETC. 279 



1 fowl. 

4 ozs. nco. 

1 oz. sweet almonds. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1^ pints white 
stock. 



salt. 
1 clove, 
cinnamon. 



1,052. PILLAU OF FOWL. 

1 onion. 
12 raisins, 
cayenne. 

Truss the fowl for boiling. Put the stock in a large saucepan, and as soon as 
it boils put in the fowl, and cook for twenty minutes. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, blanch the almonds, cut them into shreds ; stone the raisins, and cut into 
halves ; skin the onion, and cut it in slices. Put these ingredients into the melted 
butter, and fry brown. When these are browned, strain them, and place on one 
side. Return the butter to the stewpan ; reheat ; wash the rice, and fry it in the 
butter until a light brown. Add the stock gradually to the rice, the clove, and 
cinnamon. Cook until it is quite tender, then season with salt and a tiny pinch of 
cayenne. Place the fowl in the pan with the rice, pile the rice on the bird, and let 
it all cook together for about tliirty minutes or longer, according to the size of the 
bird. To serve, lift the fowl on to a hot dish, surround with the rice, and put some 
on the bird. Garnish round with little heaps of the fried ingredients. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



CHAPTER XI 

CASSEROLE COOKERY 

1,053. RUMP STEAK EN CASSEROLE. 



IJ lbs. rump-steak. 


1 small carrot. 


pepper. 


1 gill brown sauce 


1 small onion. 


G fresh mushrooms. 


1 oz. butter. 


(No. 6). 


1 glass white wine. 


salt. 


meat-glaze. 


1 cooked potato. 



Cut the steak into nice pieces ; trim and season them with salt and pepper. Melt 
the butter in a frying-pan, and fry the steak lightly on each side over a quick fire. 
Lift the meat out of the butter ; chop the onion finely, and fry it in the same butter ; 
then add the wine and the brown sauce. Peel and chop the mushrooms ; have the 
carrot ready cooked, and cut it and the cooked potato into dice ; add these to the 
browTi sauce ; make it all hot together, and put it into a fireproof earthenware 
casserole. Arrange the pieces of steak on the top ; sprinkle over a little melted 
meat-glaze, and cook in the oven for five to ten minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. 
Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,054. MUTTON CUTLETS EN CASSEROLE. 



8 cutlets of mutton. 
8 small button onions. 



2 ozs. butter. 

8 shces of raw bacon. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1 gill cooked haricot-beans. 
I pint brown sauce (No. G). 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton ; trim them, cutting off 
the greater part of the fat. Melt the butter in an earthenware casserole, and fry 
the cutlets and the onions a pale bro\Mi. Cut the bacon in neat squares ; strain the 
butter away from the cutlets ; put the bacon, onions, and haricots in with the 
meat ; season with pepper and salt. Add the brown sauce to the rest of the ingre- 
dients ; cover the casserole ; put it into the oven, and cook slowly for about three- 
quarters of an hour. When ready, send to table in the casserole, first removing 
the fat. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



1,055. NAVARIN D'AGNEAU EN CASSEROLE (FRENCH STEW OF LAMB). 

1 loin of Iamb, j J pint brown sauce (No. G). i 2 ozs. butter, l 12 button onions. 2 raw potatoes. 

2 small turnip. | | pint tomato sauce (No. 77). I 1 gill peas. 1 small carrot. salt and pepper. 

Cut the loin into chops ; trim off the fat and skin. Melt the butter in a fire- 
proof earthenware casserole ; put in the lamb chops, and fry them a little on each 
side. Take them up and put aside. Peel the onions, and fry them a golden brown 
in the same butter. Scrape the carrot, and cut it in cubes ; peel the turnip and 
potatoes ; cut them in the same way. Strain the fat away from the onion, and 
place the chops and vegetables, including the peas, in alternate layers in the casserole. 
Season with pepper and salt. ]\Iix the brown and tomato sauces together, and strain 
them over the meat and vegetables. Cover the casserole with its lid, and put in the 
oven to cook slowly for half an hour. When ready to serve, skim off the fat, and 
send to table in the casserole. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, uncertain ; depends on size of loin. Time required, 1 hour. 
Seasonable, December to August. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

280 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 281 

1,056. ROAST PHEASANT EN CASSEROLE. 

1 pheasant. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1 gill game stock. | 1 tablespoonful white wine. | seasoning. 

Truss the pheasant as for roasting. Melt the butter in an earthenware fireproof 
casserole. When hot, put in the pheasant, and fry it a nice brown all over ; then 
strain away the fat, and add the game stock, wliite wine, and seasoning. Cover the 
casserole with the lid, and put it into a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Baste 
it occasionally whilst cooking. Serve in the casserole very hot. 

Average cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,057. POULET EN CASSEROLE (CHICKEN IN CASSEROLE). 

1 fowl. h gill white wine. 1 gill good stock. j salt. 

2 ozs. butter. demi-glaze sauce (No. 29). a few button onions. I pepper. 

Choose a fine, plump fowl ; truss it as for roasting. Melt the butter in a fireproof 
casserole ; put in the cliicken, and fry it all over a golden-brown colour. When the 
cliicken is a Hght brown, add to it the wine and stock. Cover the pan, and let the 
liquor reduce to half-glaze. Skin the onions ; put them into cold water in a small 
stewpan ; bring them to the boU, and cook for five minutes, then strain. Melt 
some butter in a pan, and fry the onions a golden colour. When the chicken is 
cooked, untruss it, and place it again in the casserole ; garnish with the onions, and 
pour a good demi-glaze sauce over. Place in the oven again to get quite hot, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. to 4s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,058. POULET EN CASSEROLE. 
Another Way. 



1 fowl. 



seasoning. 



I gill good stock. 



2 ozs. butter. 
4 slices streaky bacon. 8 button onions. 1 glass white wine. 1 gill demi-glaze sauce (No. 29). 

Truss the fowl for roasting ; cut the bacon into dice ; melt the butter in an 
earthenware pan ; put in the fowl and the bacon ; fry them over a brisk fire until 
the fowl is a golden colour all over. Pour off the fat ; add the wine and stock ; 
cover the pan, and cook gently for half an hour or longer, according to the size of 
the fowl. Peel the onions ; blanch them ; then drain and fry bro^vn in the fat 
that was strained from the fowl. Take up the fowl, imtruss it, cut into joints ; 
put the pieces back in the pan. Add the sauce and the onions. Put back on the 
fire, and cook again for about ten minutes until it is thoroughly hot. ' When ready 
to serve, skim well ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and send to table in the 
earthenware pan. 

Average cost, 3s. to 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,059. POULET BRAISE EN CASSEROLE (BRAISED CHICKEN IN CASSEROLE). 

1 chicken. 1 onion. I 1 stick celery. ; 2 ozs. butter. 

1 carrot. 3 slices bacon. | salt and pepper. I 1^ gills stock. 

Choose a plump and tender chicken ; draw it ; cut off the neck ; wipe the inside 
vith a cloth ; truss it for roasting. Cut the vegetables into dice, also the bacon ; 
put these into an earthenware pan. Put the chicken on the top of the vegetables ; 
season it with pepper and salt ; put the butter on the top of the chicken, and cook 
in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, then in a cooler oven for another twenty 
minutes. Keep it well basted. When the chicken is sufficiently cooked, take it 
up, untruss it, and keep hot. Pour off the fat from the pan ; add the stock ; bring 
to the boil ; season to taste, and put in the chicken. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 3 to 5 persons. 



282 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,060. RABBIT EN CASSEROLE. 

1 rabbit. 2 onions. 4 or 5 slices streaky bacon. 1 pint stock. I pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. salt. | bouquet garni (No. 194). 1 glass white wine. ' 1 oz. flour. 

Wash the rabbit ; wipe it well with a cloth, and divide into joints. Melt the 
butter in an earthenware casserole ; fry the pieces of rabbit, with the sliced onion 
and the bacon cut in dice. When it is nicely browned, season with salt and pepper 
sprinkle with the flour. Stir over the fire until the flour is a light brown ; then add 
the wine, stock, and bouquet garni. Boil up ; cover with the lid ; place the pan in 
the oven, and cook until the pieces of rabbit are tender. Take out the bouquet 
garni, and skim. Send to table in the casserole. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,061. PERDREAUX BRAISES (BRAISED PARTRIDGES). 



2 partridges, i 2 shallots. 
1 pint stock. I 1 carrot. 



salt, 
pepper. 



bouquet garni (No. 194). I small blade of mace. 
J pint brown sauce (No. 6). I slices fat bacon. 

Draw and truss the partridges. Slice the shallots and carrot. Arrange the 
slices of bacon at the bottom of an earthenware casserole ; add the vegetables, 
bouquet garni, and mace ; put in the birds, and cook over a sharp fire until nicely 
browned. This will take about ten minutes. Then add the stock ; season with 
salt and pepper ; put the pan in the oven, and cook for about forty minutes. When 
done, take up the partridges ; untruss them. Strain the stock ; return it to the 
braising-pan ; add the sauce to it. Boil up ; skim it, and then put in the partridges 
cover the pan, and cook for ten minutes longer. The birds are now ready to serve, 
and should be sent to table in the casserole. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,062. FILET DE BOEUF EN CASSEROLE (FILLET OF BEEF IN CASSEROLE). 

I lb. tomatoes. 

^ pint b^o^vn sauce (No. 6). 

Cut the fillet into even-sized square pieces ; trim them, and remove the fat. 
Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; fry the steak lightly on each side ; then take it up, 
and place on a plate. Chop the onions and mushrooms finely ; slice the tomatoes. 
Fry the onions for a few minutes in the butter the steak was fried in ; then add the 
mushrooms, and cook a few minutes longer. Place the sliced tomatoes on a buttered 
baking-sheet, and cook in the oven for about five minutes. Now arrange in the 
fireproof casserole a layer of fillet slices ; sprinkle these with salt and pepper, and 
then with the chopped mushrooms and onion ; over that a layer of tomato-shces ; 
again some slices of meat, seasoning, chopped ingredients, and tomatoes. Continue 
until the meat and vegetables are all used, then add the brown sauce. Cover the 
casserole with its lid ; put it in a fairly hot oven for ten minutes. Send to table in 
the casserole. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2 lbs. fillet beef. 
2 ozs. butter. 



8 mushrooms. 
1 onion. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1 veal kidney. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1,063. ROGNON DE VEAU EN CASSEROLE. 

salt. 



1^ ozs. bacon. I 2 ozs. mushrooms. ! meat-glazo. 

8 button onions. | ^ gill veal gravy. ' 2 potatoes. pepper. 

Trim the veal kidney, leaving on it only a small quantity of fat. Melt the 
butter in an earthenware pan ; fry the kidney, and cook it for about thirty minutes ; 
season it with salt and pepper. Cut the bacon into small pieces ; prepare the mush- 
rooms, and cut them in quarters ; parboil the onions, and finish them in meat-glaze, 
^Vash and peel the potatoes ; then with a vegetable cutter scoop out some rounds ; 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 283 

blanch these in boiling water. Add to the kidney these ingredients, the pieces of 
bacon, mushrooms, onions, and potatoes ; cover Avith a lid, and put the pan into 
the oven to finish cooking. When done sufficiently, add the veal gravy, and send 
to table in the pan it was cooked in. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 50 minutes. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



1 064. QUAILS EN CASSEROLE. 



4 quails. 

4 slices bacon. 



1 shallot, 
salt. 



4 chicken livers. 2 ozs. bacon. 

1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 50). | 2 ozs. butter. 

Bone the quails. Chop the livers finely, the 2 ozs. of bacon, and the shallot. 
Put the bacon into a saute-pan ; add J oz. of butter and the chopped shallot ; 
cook a few minutes ; then add the finely chopped liver ; season with salt and pepper. 
When cooked, rub through a wire sieve. Stuff the birds with this mixture. Wrap 
each quail in a thin sHce of bacon ; put them into an earthenware casserole with 
the remainder of the butter, and cook slowly over the fire for twenty minutes. 
Strain off the fat, add the sauce, and finish the cooking in the oven. Send to table 
in the casserole. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1.065. VEAL CUTLETS EN CASSEROLE. 

1 lb. veal cutlets. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1 gill veal gravy. | salt. | pepper. 

Cut the cutlets from a neck of veal ; trim them free from fat and skin ; flatten 
them slightly with a cutlet-bat ; season the cutlets with salt and pepper. Melt the 
butter in an earthenware saucepan ; put in the cutlets ; cook them slowly over the 
fire, turning them over occasionally. When nearly cooked, strain off the butter, 
add the veal gravy, and put the pan in the oven to finish cooking. Serve in the 
casserole. 

Average oost, Is. 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1.066. SWEETBREAD EN CASSEROLE. 

1 throat sweetbread. I \ carrot. I a few peas and beans. | salt. 

2 0Z6. butter. | \ onion. i 1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 50). ' pepper. 

Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one hour ; put it into a saucepan with 
water to cover, and bring to the boil. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Drain and 
press till cold. Trim the sweetbread, removing skin, fat, and gristle. Melt the 
butter in an earthenware pan ; put in the sweetbread, and fry it all over a nice brown 
colour. Strain off the butter, and put in the Madeira sauce, the carrot and onion 
cut in dice and cooked, the beans cut in dice, and the peas, these also ready cooked ; 
season with salt and pepper. Cover the pan vnth. the lid, and put it in the oven 
to finish the cooking. Serve in the casserole. 

Average cost, from 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour after soaking. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,067. PIGEONS EN CASSEROLE AU CHOU. 

2 Bordeaux pigeons. | 2 ozs. butter, l 1 glass white wine. bacon. I salt. 

1 gill brown sauce. 1 I cabbage. I 1 gill good stock. | \ onion. | pepper. 

Cut the pigeons into neat joints. Peel and chop the onion. Melt the butter in 
an earthenware ste\\'pan ; put in the onion and the joints of pigeon, and fry them a 
nice bro\\Ti colour. Strain away the butter ; blanch the cabbage, and divide it into 
.six parts. Have ready six shces of thinly cut bacon ; fry them, and roll each slice 
in one of the pieces of cabbage. Place these in an earthenware casserole ; put the 
joints of pigeon on the top ; add the sauce, stock, and wine ; season with pepper 



284 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

and salt ; put on the lid ; place in the oven, and cook for about half an hour. When 
sufficiently cooked, take it out of the oven ; remove the fat on the surface, and send 
to table in the casserole. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,068. PIGEONS EN CASSEROLE A LA SOUVAROFF. 

2 Bordeaux pigeons. 1 2 ozs. butter. | ^ ozs. chicken forcemeat 2 ozs. foie-gras. 

1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). I 1 truffle. | (No. 202). 1 gill veal gravy. 

Prepare the pigeons. Mx together the chicken forcemeat and the foie-gras, 
the latter to be cut in dice ; also cut the truffle in the same way, and mix into the 
other ingredients. Fill the pigeons with this mixture, and truss them a nice shape. 
Melt the butter in an earthenware stewpan or casserole ; put in the pigeons, and fry 
a nice colour. Add to them the veal gravy, the brown sauce, salt, and pepper. 
Cover with the lid of the pan, and put in the oven to cook for about thirty minutes. 
Serve in the casserole, first removing the fat from the surface. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,069. PERDREAUX EN CASSEROLE A LA DEMIDOFF (PARTRIDGES IN 

CASSEROLE, DEMIDOFF STYLE). 



2 partridges. 
1 gill grai-y. 



1 gill dice of carrots, j 1 gill dice of mushrooms. 1 tablespoonful glaze. I 1 truffle 

2 ozs. butter. stock. 



1 gill dice of turnips. | 1 gill bro\\Ti sauce (No. 6). 

Prepare the partridges ; truss them as for roasting. Melt the butter in an 
earthenware stewpan ; put in the partridges, and brown them nicely all over. 
When brown, put them into a casserole. Cut the dice of carrots, turnips, and 
mushrooms about J inch square ; parboil these separately, then cook them in 
stock. Strain and add them to the partridges ; cut up the truffle, and sprinkle over 
the birds. Pour in the gravy and the brown sauce ; season with pepper and salt. 
Cover with the lid ; set it in the oven for half an hour. Send to table in the 
casserole. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




c 
c 

c 



-a 



-T3 

O 

c 
o 

4— » 

a 
o 



-a 
(/I 

-4—* 

w 
O 



CHAPTER XII 

MEAT ENTREES (COLD) 



1,070. cOtelettes D'AGNEAU 



EN CHAUDFROID 
LAMB). 



2 lbs. neck of lamb (best end), 
macedoine of cooked vegetables, 
bouquet garni. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
1 truffle. 



6 peppercorns. 
J pint stock. 
aspic jelly. 



(COLD CUTLETS OF 

3 gills brown chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 126). 
mayonnaise (No. 134). 



Cut the onion and carrot into good-sized pieces ; put them in a stewpan with the 
bouquet garni, peppercorns, and stock. Trim the neck ; raise the chine-bone, lay 
it on the vegetables, and braise for about forty-five minutes. When done, cut it 
into cutlets ; trim and press until cold. Take off all grease from the braising liquor, 
strain into another saucepan, and reduce it to half-glaze ; then add it to the brown 
chaudfroid sauce. Trim the cutlets again after pressing, and coat each one with 
the sauce. When this is set, decorate each cutlet with a star of truffle ; mask with 
half-set aspic jelly. Mix the vegetables — i.e., peas, beans, carrots, turnips — with 
enough mayonnaise to bind them together ; place this vegetable salad in the centre 
of a dish, and dress the cutlets round in a circle. Garnish the dish with chopped 
aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, January to August. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 cutlets. 

1,071. cOtelettes d'agneau froides a la strasbourgeoise. 



8 lamb cutlets, 
terrine of foie-gras. 
1 truffle. 



1 bouquet garni. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 pint stock. 



2 tablespoonfuls cream. 1 onion, 

green chaudfroid sauce (No. 127). 1 carrot, 

aspic jelly (No. 251). bacon. 

Trim the cutlets neatly. They should be cut from the best end of a neck of 
lamb. Make a horizontal incision in the meaty part of each cutlet. Rub the 
foie-gras through a sieve ; add the cream to it ; mix well, and then stuff the cutlets 
with it. Cut the vegetables in pieces ; put them into a saucepan with the bouquet 
garni, peppercorns, and stock ; lay the cutlets on the top of the vegetables ; cover 
with slices of fat bacon, and braise for about thirty minutes. When done, take 
them up, and let them get cold ; trim and coat them with the green chaudfroid 
sauce. When set, put on each a star of truffle, and mask with half-set aspic jelly. 
Chop some aspic jelly ; pile it up in the centre of the dish ; dress the cutlets round 
this, standing against it. Place a cutlet frill on each bone. Arrange chopped aspic 
between each cutlet ; also garnish the dish with it, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable from January to 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



August 



1,072. 

8 lamb cutlets, 
a little vinegar. 
1 bouquet garni. 
peppercorns. 



cOtelettes d'agneau A la Constance. 



1 pint white chaudfroid sauce (No. 12'4). 
1 tablespoonful mint, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of lamb 



1 onion. 
1 carrot 
salt, 
pepper. 

trim them neatly 



2 lettuces. 
^ pint stock, 

1 oz. butter. 

2 ozs. bacon. 



3relt 



tlie butter in a stewpan ; cut the bacon into dice, and slice the vegetables. Put the 



285 



286 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

bacon, vegetables, bouquet garni, and peppercorns into the butter, fry for a fe'w 
minutes, then put the cutlets on the top ; add the stock ; cover with a buttered paper, 
and braise for half an hour at the side of the fire or in the oven. Chop the mint, 
and wliile chopping sprinkle with a few drops of ^^negar. as this preserves the green 
colour of the mint. Stir this into the white chaudfroid sauce. As soon as the 
3utlets are cooked, press them until cold ; trim and coat with the sauce. When 
t\"cll coated, mask with half-set aspic jelly. Wash the lettuces, tear into small 
pieces, mix with mayonnaise, and pile in the centre of a dish ; dress the cutlets, 
leaning against the salad ; place a frill on each bone, and garnish between the cutlets 
v^ath chopped aspic and round the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, Ij hours. Seasonable, January to August. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,073. CHAUDFROID DE COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA JARDINIERE 
(COLD LAMB CUTLETS, WITH VEGETABLES). 

8 lamb cutlets. vegetables for braise. | 1 truffle. 1 pint macedoine I stock. 

sprigs of mint. ^ pint mayonnaise (No. 134). I aspic jelly. of vegetables. | butter. 

Trim the cutlets ; make a bed of vegetables at the bottom of a saucepan, pour 
in I pint stock, lay the cutlets on the vegetables, cover with buttered paper, and 
braise gently for half an hour. Take them up, place on a tin with another on the 
top, and press under a light weight until cold. Make some aspic jelly in the usual 
way, with the addition of a few sprigs of mint, to give it a nice flavour. When 
strained, colour a pale green with green colouring. Retrim the cutlets if necessary, 
lay them in a deep tin, and cover with the green aspic ; let them set, and then cut 
out each cutlet with a knife ; trim neatly. Line a border mould with un- 
coloured aspic jelly, decorate to taste with truffle, cut in fancy patterns, then 
line again with aspic mayonnaise {i.e., equal quantities of aspic and mayonnaise 
mixed together). When this is set, fill the mould vni\\ mixed vegetables and 
mayonnaise aspic ; put this aside to set. Turn out on a cold dish ; fill the centre 
hollow with mixed vegetables and mayoimaise sauce ; this must be piled up rather 
high. Dress the coated cutlets on the border, leaning against the macedoine of vege- 
tables. Chop some uncoloured aspic jelly, and place a little between each cutlet, and 
also round the dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley or hearts of lettuces. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1^ hours. In season, January to August. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,074. SOUVENIRS DE RIS D'AGNEAU. 

2 pairs lambs' sweetbreads. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 

1 pint cooked green peas. 



pepper. 

salt. 

J pint stock. 



2 ozs. ham. 1 G preserved mushrooms. 

1 gill cream. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

\ oz. gelatine. | vegetables for braising. 

Soak the sweetbreads, blanch, press, and braise them on a bed of vegetables 
with the stock ; cook for twenty minutes. After the sweetbreads are cooked, let 
them get oold, then cut in dice, also the cooked ham. Line some dariole moulds 
with aspic jelly, let them set, then cover the httle moulds all over with the cooked 
green peas (the aspic jelly ased to line the moulds and to set in the peas should be 
tinted green with spinach greening) ; the peas must be fixed in by sprinkling with 
the jelly ; the bottoms of the moulds should be coated first, and then the sides, a 
piece at a time, until they are covered all over. Now melt the gelatine in the 
sauce ; cut up the mushrooms into dice. Mix together in a basin the sweetbreads, 
ham, and mushrooms, season with salt and pepper ; add the sauce and the shghtly 
whipped cream. Stir this mixture on ice until it begins to set, then fill up carefully 
the lined moulds nearly to the top ; pour a layer of aspic over each ; let them set 
on ice. When ready to serve, dip into warm water, turn out on to a cold dish, garnish 
with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, January to August. 
Sufficient for 8 moulds. 



MEAT ENTREES (COLD) 



287 



1,075. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA POMPADOUR. 



8 mutton cutlets. 

aspic jelly. 

white of egg, hard-boiled. 



i pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
I pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 131). 



salt. 

pepper. 

1 oz. butter. 



2 lettuces. 

1 truifle. 

h oz. gelatine. 

Trim the cutlets neatly ; melt the butter in a saute-pan. As soon as it is hot, put 
in the cutlets, seasoned, and fry them quicldy on both sides. AVhen sufficiently 
cooked, take them up, drain, and place on a baking-sheet, place another tin on the 
top with a weight, and press the cutlets until cold. Warm the tomato and Bechamel 
sauces separatel3% and melt in each half the gelatine. When this is melted, strain 
into basins, and let tliem get cold. Coat the cutlets with the sauces, four to be 
maskeil ^^'ith tomato and four with Bechamel sauce. As soon as the sauce is set 
on each, decorate the red cutlets ^ith hard-boiled wliite of egg cut out in a fancy 
pattern, and the white cutlets with truffle ; glaze them Anth half-set aspic jelly. 
Prepare a salad Avith the lettuces, mix with mayonnaise, and season to taste. 
Arrange the salad in the centre of a dish ; dress the cutlets, standing round ; place 
a frill on each bone, and garnish between the cutlets and round the dish with 
chopped aspic jelly. The dish is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, H hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 




Fig. 56. — Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour. 



1,076. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A L'INDIENNE. 



8 mutton cutlets. 
^ oz. gelatine. 



^ pint curry sauce 
(No. 23). 



1 tomato, 
beetroot. 



boiled rice (No. 1,039). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



li ozs. butter. 
1 white of eg^. 



Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, trim them nicely free 
from fat, and scrape the bone clean about 1 inch from the end ; season them with 
salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry them 
quickly on each side until done. Place on a baking-sheet, put another tin on the 
top, place on that a light weight, and press until cold, then trim again. Heat 
the sauce, melt the gelatine in it, strain it into a basin, and let it get cold. Place 
the cutlets on a wire tray, and mask one side with the prepared sauce ; let this set, 
then decorate each cutlet in the following manner : Grease a small dariole mould, 
put into it the raw white of an egg, and steam it until firm ; turn it out, and cut 
into slices, then, with a star cutter, stamp out a round for each cutlet ; in the centre 

PT. IV. ■ 19 



288 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



of each star stamp out a small round with a very small cutter, fill up this cavity 
with a piece of tomato-skin, fix one of these stars on each cutlet, have ready some 
half -set aspic jelly, and mask the cutlets with it. To dish the cutlets, arrange some 
cold boiled rice in the centre of a dish, pile it up high, dress the cutlets standing up 
round the rice, put a cutlet frill on each bone, and decorate the dish with chopped 
aspic jelly, sprigs of parsley, and crescents of beetroot (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1,077. COTELETTES DE MOUTON EN ASPIC (MUTTON CUTLETS IN 

ASPIC JELLY). 



6 mutton cutlets. 
1 pint aspic jelly. 



1 onion. 
1 truffle. 



1 small carrot. 
I pint stock. 



bouquet garni. | salad. 
6 peppercorns. ; salt. 



1 hard-boiled white 
of egg. 



meat-glaze, 
cutlet-frills. 



Trim the cutlets neatly, take cff most of the fat, and scrape an inch of the bone 
at the end quite clean. Cut the onion and carrot into pieces, put them into a stew- 
pan with the bouquet garni, peppercorns, celer}^, and stock ; season the cutlets with 




Fig. 57. — Cotelettes de Mouton en Aspic. 

salt and pepper, and lay them on the vegetables ; cover with buttered paper ar.d 
the lid of the pan, and braise slowly for thirty minutes over the fire or in the oven. 
When done, take up, drain and press until cold, then glaze them with melted meat- 
glaze ; let this set. Decorate each cutlet with a star of hard-boiled white of egg, 
with a small round of truffle in the centre of each star ; set these on the cutlets, with 
a few drops of aspic dropped on them. When the decorations are set, place the 
cutlets in a deep tin, cover with aspic jelly, and let set on ice until quite firm. Then, 
with a sharp knife dipped in hot water, cut out the cutlets, trim them neatly, and 
put a cutlet-frill on each bone. Dress a nicely seasoned salad in the centre of an 
entree-dish, arrange the cutlets standing up round it, garnish between each with 
chopped aspic, and also round the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. , Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,078. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA RIPON. 



8 mutton cutlets. 

^ pint soubise sauce (No. 75). 



1 truffle. J pint sauce veloute (No. 82). j h oz. gelatine, salad, 
chervil. \ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). aspic jelly. butter. 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, trim them neatly ; season 
with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a frying-pan ; fry the cutlets brown oi? 



MEAT ENTREES {COLD) 289 

both sides. When sufficiently cooked, take them up, drain them, place on a tin, 
place another on the top with a weight, and press until cold. Reduce the soubise 
sauce well, and mask the cutlets with it ; on one side melt half the gelatine in the 
white sauce, and the other half in the tomato sauce. Strain the sauces into separate 
basins, and let them get cold, but not set. Coat the cutlets with the two sauces ; 
four cutlets to be coated with white, and four %vith tomato ; this is done on the 
sides that have been masked with soubise sauce. After the cutlets are coated in 
this way, put them on ice to set, then decorate with truffle and chervil leaves ; 
have ready some half-set aspic jelly ; put a layer of this over the cutlets. Prepare 
a salad of mixed vegetables and mayonnaise, or a lettuce salad. Arrange tliis in the 
centre of a dish ; dress the cutlets round, put a frill on each cutlet-bone, garnish 
with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,079. FILETS DE VEAU A LA MADRAS (FILLETS OF VEAL, MADRAS STYLE). 



1^ lbs. fillet of veal. I 3 gills white chaudfroid sauce 

1 pint white stock. (No. 124). 



3 t)zs. butter, 
aspic jelly. 
2 shallots. 



4 ozs. rice, 
truffle. 
2 lettuces. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). I J tablespoonful curry-powder. 

Cut the fillet into rounds of even size, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim away 
skin and fat. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a saute-pan ; chop the shallots, put them 
into the butter, and fry a few minutes without bro\vning ; put in the fillets, and 
cook without allo"wing them to colour ; keep turning them in the pan to prevent this. 
As soon as they are cooked, put them between two tins or plates, and press until 
cold. Trim again. Melt 1 ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in the curry-powder, 
and fry a little ; add the chaudfroid sauce to this, mix well together, strain into a 
basin, and let cool. Coat the fillets thickly with this sauce, let set, then decorate 
each fillet with a star of truffle ; coat with half-set aspic jelly. Boil the rice in the 
stock until tender, season to taste, and press into a border-mould. Make a salad 
with the lettuces and mayonnaise. As soon as the rice border is cold, turn it out 
on to a round entree dish, ffll the centre with the salad, and dress the cutlets round on 
the top of the border, standing round the salad ; garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1,080. FILET DE VEAU EN BELLE VUE (FILLET OF VEAL, 

BELLE VUE STYLE). 



I lb. veal cutlet, 
bouquet garni (No. 194), 
6 peppercorns. 



mixed vegetables (carrot, turnip, peas, and beans). 1 carrot. | pint stock, 
larding bacon. 1 onion, meat-glaze, 

aspic jolly (No. 251). salt. 1 oz. butter. 

Cut the veal into rounds, not too thin, about 1| inches across. Lard one side of 
each with strips of larding bacon. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; sUce the carrot 
and onion, add to the butter ; also the bouquet garni, peppercorns, a pinch of salt, 
and the stock. Place the rounds of veal on the top of the vegetables, and braise 
for twenty minutes ; baste the veal occasionally while cooking. When cooked, 
allow them to get cold ; then brush them over with meat-glaze. Rinse out in cold 
water eight shell-shaped tins, set a thin coating of jelly at the bottom of each. 
When this is firm, decorate them with the cooked mixed vegetables ; fix these in 
with a few drops of aspic dropped on them. Put one of the larded fillets in each 
mould, larded side down ; pour in some aspic jelly, sufficient to fix the fillet. 
When this is set, put round the fillet a border of vegetables ; sprinkle these with a 
little jelly to set them. When this is done, fill up the moulds with more jelly 
When ready to serve, dip the moulds in warm water, turn out on to a dish, garnish 
with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

19—2 



290 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,081. FILETS DE VEAU FROIDES (COLD VEAL FILLETS). 



1^ lbs. veal cutlet, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 
cooked green peas. 
8 peppercorns. 



1 truffle. bouquet garni (No. 194). 2 ozs. bacon. 

1 onion. 3 gills white chaudfroid sauce (No. 124). 2 lettuces. 

1 clove. J gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). \ pint stock. 

1 carrot. \ gill cream. salt. 

Cut the veal fillet into rounds of even size, flatten them with a cutlet-bat. and 
trim neatly. Cut up the bacon into squares, put it into a ste\\^an with the sliced 
onion, carrot, bouquet garni, clove, peppercorns, and stock ; lay the pieces of veal 
on the vegetables, cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the saucepan, and 
braise on the fire or in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When cooked, 
take up, drain, and press until cold. Have ready the chaudfroid sauce, cold, but 
not set. Mask the veal with this, let set ; then repeat. Continue in this way 
until the cutlets are thoroughly coated. Mask them with half - set aspic 
jelly. Rub some cooked green peas through a fine sieve, mix with them a little 
cream ; put this into a forcing-bag, and force out a rose in the centre of each fillet. 




Fig. 58. — Filets de Yeau Froides. 



Mix the remainder of the cream with the mayonnaise sauce. Wash the lettuces, 
divide into small pieces, and mix them with the mayonnaise. Dress this salad on 
a round dish in pyramid form, stand the fillets in a circle round it, garnish with 
finely chopped aspic between the cutlets and round the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 fillets. 



1,082. GAtEAU de VEAU (VEAL CAKE). 



1 lb. veal cutlet. 
J lb. streaky bacon. 



pepper. 

salt. 



^ lemon-rind. parsley. | 2 to 3 leaves of 

2 eggs. ^ pint stock, i gelatine. 

Cut up the veal into dice ; boil the eggs hard, chop the parsley, grate the lemon- 
rind ; cut the bacon into strips and the eggs into slices. Rinse out a plain charlotte 
mould, decorate the bottom with slices of hard-boiled egg and strips of bacon ; 
do the same round the sides of the mould. Mix the veal cutlet Avith the remainder 
of the eggs cut in dice, the bacon and parsley chopped, grated lemon-rind, salt, and 
pepper. Fill the mould three parts full with this, add enough stock or water to 
cover, cover with paper, and put in a cool oven for \\ hours. When sufficiently 
cooked, fill it up again with stock in which the gelatine has been melted. Let the 



MEAT ENTREES (COLD) 



291 



shape get perfectly cold and set. Turn out on to a cold dish, and garnish with sprigs 
of fresh parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

1,083. MOUSSE DE VEAU. 
I gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



i lb. veal. 
1 gill cream. 



1 pint aspic jelly (Xo. 251). 



J oz. gelatine. 
1 truffle. 



2 tomato skins, 
salad. 



salt. 
pepper. 



Chop the veal (fillet of veal is best for this), put it in the mould, add to it the 
Bechamel sauce, and pound w^ell. Season with pepper and salt, and rub through 
a wire sieve. Rinse out some moulds, the shape and size of playing-cards, with 
cold water ; put in the bottom of each a thin layer of aspic-jelly ; let this set. Then 
cut out with card-cutters shapes in truffle and the very thinly-peeled skin of 
tomatoes ; arrange in the moulds so as to represent playing-cards ; fix these in with 
a httle aspic-jelly. When this is set, fill with the following mixture : Whip the cream 
slightly ; melt the gelatine in about 1 gill of aspic-jelly, let the latter get cold ; 




iia. 59. — MoubsiB dk Veau. 



then mix it into the sieved veal ; stir in the cream lightly. Arrange a nicely-made 
salad in the centre of a dish, dress the veal mousses round it, and garnish with 
chopped jelly. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 moulds. 



2 sweetbreads. 

3 or 4 tomatoes, 
larding bacon. 



1 carrot, 
bouquet garni, 
i pint stock. 



1,084. RIS DE VEAU A LA ST. MICHEL. 

1 terrine foie-gras. 2 truffles, 

aspic jelly (No. 251). seasoning, 

chaudfroid sauce blanche (No. 124). 1 onion. 

Soak and blanch the sweetbreads ; press, trim, and lard them with a few strips 
of larding bacon. Cut the onion and carrot into large pieces, place them in a sauce- 
pan ; add the stock and the bouquet garni ; place the sweetbreads on the top of them, 
cover with a buttered paper and a lid, and cook over the fire for about thirty minutes. 
Take up and let cool. Cut each sweetbread in half lengthways ; stamp out some 
rounds with a cutter about 2 inches across ; put these rounds on a wire tray, and 
coat them with the white chaudfroid sauce. Turn out the foie-gras, take away 
the fat from it, cut it into rounds a little smaller than the sweetbread, place one 
of these in the centre of each round of the latter, and coat with the sauce. Cut 



292 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



the tomatoes into slices, season them with pepper and salt, and stand the prepared 
sweetbread on them. Decorate the tops of the foie-gras with pieces of truffle, 
cut out with a fancy cutter. Have ready some half-set aspic jelly ; pour this over, 
dish up on an entree dish, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. A nicely prepared 
salad can be sent up with it separately (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



1,035. TIMBALE DE RIS DE VEAU (TIMBALE OF SWEETBREAD), 



1 sweetbread. 
1 truffle. 



1 slice tongue. 



\ gill cream. 



^ gill sherry. 
2 ozs. ham. 



1 pint aspic jelly (No. 251). 
a few preserved mushrooms. 

Line a plain timbale mould with aspic jelly ; when this is set, decorate the sides 
and bottom with truffle and tongue cut out in fancy shapes ; set this decoration 
with a little aspic jelly, put on very carefully. Mix together the cream and 1 gill 
of aspic jelly ; put this on ice, and when it is half set, coat the mould all ov^er with 
it over the decoration. Cook the sweetbread in the usual way, and, when cold, cut 
into dice ; also the ham, the remainder of the tongue, truffle, and the mushrooms, 
in strips. Put these ingredients into a basin, pour the wine over, also any aspic 




Fig. 60. — Tijjbale de Eis de Veau. 



cream that is left after coating the mould, and about 1 gill of aspic jelly. Mix all 
well together, and season to taste. Stir on ice until the mixture begins to set, then 
fill the mould. When it is well set, dip it quickly into hot water, and turn out on to 
an entree dish. Garnish the base with chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



RIS DE VEAU A LA SAN REMO. 



2 sweetbreads, 
mirepoix, etc. 
1 truffle. 



1,086 

1 gill tomato sauce 

(No. 77). 
\ gill white wine. 



\ oz. gelatine. 

seasoning. 

salad. 



1 gill sauce Villeroi (No. 84). 
1^ pints aspic jelly, 
mixed cooked vegetables. 

Blanche the sweetbreads, trim and press them, then braise with the mirepoix, 
wine, etc. As soon as they are cooked, take them up, drain, and let them get cold. 
Mix the sauces together, put them into a stewpan, and make hot ; add the gelatine, 
and let it melt in the sauce (the sauce should be pink) ; strain into a basin, and 
let it cool. Cut the sweetbread into slices ; coat each slice with t'le prepared sauce, 







o 

O 

c 

B 

CQ 

-a 

in 



MEAT ENTREES {COLD) 



293 



then decorate each with pieces of truffle cut out iri fancy patterns ; mask them with 
half-set aspic jelly. Coat a border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly on the 
bottom and sides ; sjorinkle some mixed cooked vegetables over the bottom of the 
mould, set them in with aspic jelly, and fill the mould with the vegetables and 
aspic. Put on ice to set. The vegetables used should be peas, beans, carrots, and 
turnips, the two last to be cut into dice. As soon as the border is set, turn it out, fill 
the centre with, a nicely prepared salad, pile it up high, and dress the slices of sweet- 
bread on the border leaning against the salad. Garnish between the slices of sweet- 
bread with chopped aspic, and also round the base of the mould (see coloured plate). 
Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable in the summer 
months. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,087 

I large sweetbread, 
aspic jelly. 



CHAUDFROID DE RIS DE VEAU EN CAISSES. 

truffle. 



ma3'onnaise sauce (No. 134) 
artichoke bottoms. 



cream. 



mirepoix, etc. (No. 250), 
for braising. 



cooked peas. 
8 souffle cases. 



Blanch, press, trim, and braise the sweetbread wdth the mirepoix, etc. ; drain, 
and let it cool. Cut the sweetbread into rounds the same shape and size as the 
souffle cases (china or silver). Make the mayonnaise, mix some cream into it. Cut 




Fig. G1. — Cuaudfroid 



Veau ln Caisses. 



the artichokes mto strips, mix them with some of the mayonnaise cream, and season 
nicely. About half-fill the souffle cases with the artichoke salad, place on the 
top of each a slice of sweetbread, pour over the aspic mayonnaise so as to thoroughly 
coat the sweetbread, put the cases on ice, and let them set. Cut out some pieces of 
truffle with a fancy cutter, decorate the top of each slice with these prettily, mask 
with half-set aspic, and put a row of peas round the inside of each dish ; put them on 
the ice again to get quite set. Dish on a silver entree dish ; garnish the latter with 
a few sprigs of crisp parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable in the summer. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1,088. FILETS DE BCEUF EN CHAUDFROID. 

i pint brown chaudfroid sauce (No. 126). white of egg (hard-boiled). 
I pint aspic jelly (No. 251). mashed potatoes. 

1 gill cooked green peas. 1 tablespoonful cream, 

pepper. 2 ozs. butter. 

Take away all skin and gristle from the fillet ; cut it into rounds all the same 
size, and about | inch thick ; lard one side of each with strips of lardiast bacon 



2 lbs. fillet of beef, 
larding bacon. 
1 truffle, 
salt. 



294 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and fry the fillets in it a nice brown on both sides, 
allowing about three minutes for each side ; they should be underdone. Place 
them between two plates with a weight, and press until cold. Trim the fillets, and 
coat them with the brown chaudfroid sauce. Let the sauce set ; place on each a 
garnish of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, cut out in a fancy pattern ; pour 
over half-set aspic jelly. Rub the cooked peas through a hair sieve ; mix to this 
puree the tablespoonful of cream and a little spinach greening, if found necessary. 
Put this puree into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and make a border with it round 
each fillet. Make a bed of mashed potatoes on a silver dish, arranging it straight 
down the dish ; dress the fillets on this ; decorate the sides of the dish with the green- 
pea puree, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,089. FILETS DE BCEUF A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

horseradish. mayoanaise sauce 2 shallots. 

h gill cream. (No. 134). salt. 

J pint aspic jelly (No. 251). sprigs of parsley. pepper. 

Take away all skin and fat from the fillet. Cut it into slices | inch thick, anp? 
the slices into rounds all the same size. Chop the shallops. Melt the butter in a 
saute-pan, put in the shallots, and fry a little ; then place the fillets on the top, 
and fry them quickly over a brisk fire (they should be underdone), until nicely coloured 
on both sides. Take them up, drain, put them on a wire tray ; season with salt 
and pepper, and let them get cold. Mix the whipped cream with the mayonnaise, 
add a little grated horseradish, season to taste, and coat the fillets with it. Skin 
the tomatoes by dipping them into boiling water, cut them into slices, and place 
a fillet on each slice of tomato. Coat all over with half-set aspic jolly. Put in the 
centre of each fillet a little shredded horseradish and a pinch of chopped parsley. 
Dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 7 persons. 

1,090. PETITES TIMBALES DE BCEUF A LA BETTERAVE (LITTLE SHAPES 

OF BEEF AND BEETROOT). 



2 lbs. fillet of beef. 
2 ozs. butter. 
2 or 3 tcmatoes. 



4 ozs. cooked beef. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 



a few shces of beet- aspic jelly. salt, 

root. parsley. pej^per. 

Mince the beef finely, chop the beetroot, place these ingredients in~a basin, 
mix them together, season highly with salt and pepper ; add to these some aspic 
jelly, sufficient to dilute well. Rinse out some dariole moulds with cold water, 
and fill them with this mixture. Place the little moulds on ice to set. When these 
shapes are quite firm, turn them out on to a cold dish. Cut the hard-boiled eggs 
into shces or quarters, garnish the dish with these, also with chopped aspic jelly 
and sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 moulds. 

1,091. PETITS SOUFFLES A L'ECARLATE (OX-TONGUE SOUFFLES). 



^ lb. ox-tongue, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 gill brovvn sauce 
(No. G). 



\\ gills cream. 
1 truffle. 



cochineal. 

8 souffle cases. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Chop the tongue finely. Put it into a mortar, and pound well ; add the brown 
sauce, and mix thoroughly, rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, 
season to taste, mix into it about 1| gills of aspic jelly, whip the cream lightly, 
and stir it into tlie mixture. Fasten a band of stiff paper round the outside of each 
case, so that it comes about an inch above the cases. Fill up the cases with the tongue 
preparation. Put on ice, or place in an ice cave, until thoroughly set ; garnish the 



MEAT ENTREES {COLD) 



295 



surface of each with a star of truffle ; put over some half-set aspic. When quite 
firm, take off the paper bands, dish up, and garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1,092. GALANTINE DE BCEUF (BEEF ROLL). 



1 lb. lean beef (raw). 
4 ozs. breadcrumbs. 



^ lb. fat bacon. 



1 tablespoonful chopped 
parsley. 



salt, 
pepper. 



mcat-glazo. 
parsley. 

Chop the meat and bacon finely, or pass them through a mincing-machine. Rub 
the bread through a fine wire sieve. Put the meat, bacon, and crumbs into a basin ; 
add the parsley, pepper, and salt, and mix all well together ; beat the eggs, and add 
them to the dry ingredients, and, if necessary, a little stock. After mixing well, 
put this preparation into a pudding-cloth, .shape it into a roll, making it short 
and thick, roll it up in the cloth, and tie at each end with string. Put the roll 
into a saucepan, containing enough boiling water or stock to cover it ; boil for about 




Fig. 62. — GALAj^xiiNis db Bceuf. 

two hours. When cooked, take it up, put it on a baking-tin, place another on the 
top, put on a weight — not too heavy — and press until cold. As soon as the roll is 
quite cold, glaze it thickly with meat-glaze. Dish it up, and garnish it with sprigs 
of parsley, or, if handy, some chopped aspic jelly is an improvement. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

1,093. PETITS SOUFFLES AU JAMBON (LITTLE HAM SOUFFLES). 

^ lb. lean cooked ham. I U gills cream. seasoning. 

1^ gills aspic jelly. I ^"gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 1 truffle." 

Cut the ham into pieces, put these into a mortar with the sauce, and pound until 
it becomes a smooth paste ; rub it through a wire sieve. Melt the aspic, and whisk 
over ice till it becomes white and frothy and begins to set, then stir it into the ham 
puree. \^Tiip the cream slightly, and^nix it into the ham preparation. Stir all 
well together, and then fill up some httle china souffle cases. Cut out stars of truffle, 
and place one on the top of each souffle ; run a httle aspic jelly over, and put on ice 
or into an ice cave for one to two hours. Dish up and serve. 

Average co.st, 2s. 9d. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



296 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,094. PETITES LANGUES A L'ESPAGNOLE (SHAPES OF OX-TONGUE). 



\ lb. cooked tongue. pepper. 
2 ozs. cooked veal. , salt. 



\ gill cream. 

I pint aspic jelly. 



^ gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
cochineal or carmine. 



salad, 
meat-glaze. 



Cut up the tongue and veal, put into a mortar, and pound well together. Add 
the sauce, season to taste, colour with a few drops of cochineal or carmine, and rub 
tlirough a wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, add it to the puree mixture, stir 
in sufficient aspic jelly to set the mixture, about three parts of a gill. Rinse out some 
little tongue moulds with cold water, fill them with the above mixture, put on ice 
to set. Prepare a salad of lettuces mixed with mayonnaise ; arrange this in the 
centre of a dish. Turn out the little moulds, and glaze them with meat-glaze. 
Dish the little tongues round the salad, arranging them with the points to the 
centre. Decorate with chopped aspic jelly, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 moulds. 




Fio. C3. — Mousse de Jambun. 



1,095. MOUSSE DE J AMBON. 
1 lb. cooked ham. | aspic jelly (No. 251). | \ pint cream. 



truffles. 



Line a dome-shaped mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, also a plain round 
tin, larger than the base of the first mould. When these are set, decorate both with 
shoes of truffle, cut in fancy shapes, and with tarragon leaves or parsley stalks. 
Set these decorations in with a little more aspic jelly, taking care that the layer of 
jelly is not too thick. Remove some of the fat from the ham, and then put it 
through a mincing-machine ; pound well in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. 
Place this mixture in a basin, add to it \ pint of melted aspic jelly, and lastly the 
cream, slightly whipped. When this mousse begins to set, fill up both the moulds 
with it, and put aside to set. When ready, turn out the large mould first on to an 
entree dish, then turn out the dome-shaped mould, and place it on the top of the 
first one. Garnish round the base of the dish, and also where the two shapes join, 
with a little chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, about 2 hours. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



MEAT ENTREES {COLD) 



297 



1,096. COTELETTES FROIDES A LA PRINCESSE. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
J gill cream. 
1 oz. butter. 



salt. 

pepper. 

tomatoes. 



oil. 



parsley. 



4 ozs. cooked veal, 
aspic jelly (No. 
251). 

Put the hard-boiled eggs into a mortar, cut up the veal into small pieces, add 
it and the butter to the eggs, and pound all together to a smooth paste ; rub through 
a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt ; whip the cream, and stir it into the mixture. 
Divide this puree into six equal parts, shape each portion into the form of a cutlet, 
place them on a dish, and cover with aspic. When set, cut them out carefully. 
Peel the tomatoes, cut them in slices, pile them in the centre of a dish, sprinkle 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; arrange the cutlets round this, standing against 
it ; garnish with chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



CHAPTER XIII 

ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT) 



1 097. POULET SAUTE A LA CHASSEUR (CHICKEN SAUTED, HUNTER'S 

STYLE). 



1 chicken. 

I gill salad-oil. 



^ oz. butter. 

1 glass white wine. 



I pint chasseur sauce (No. 19). 
12 mushrooms. 



2 shallots, 
chopped parsley. 



pepper, 
salt. 



Cut the fowl into six or eight neat joints. Put the butter and oil into a stewpan ; 
when hot, put in the pieces of chicken, add the chopped shallots, and fry quickly 
over the fire until the pieces of chicken are lightly browned. Strain off the fat, 
add the wine and the sauce, and simmer gently for half an hour. Slice the mush- 
rooms, and add them to the chicken ten minutes before it is cooked. Dish up the 
chicken in a pile on a hot dish, arranging it neatly, pour the sauce over, and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley. All fat must be removed from the sauce before it is poured 
over the chicken. The dish is now ready to serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 



1^ ozs. butter. 
1 small cucumber. 



I gill veal stock, 
lemon-juice. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1,098. POULET SAUTE A LA DORIA (CHICKEN SAUTED WITH CUCUMBER). 

1 chicken. 
I gill oil. 

Cut the chicken into six or eight neat joints. Put ^ oz. of butter and the oil 
into a stewpan. As soon as it is hot, put in the pieces of chicken, and fry them quickly 
a Ught brown. Peel the cucumber, cut it in quarters lengthways, and remove the 
seeds ; then cut the pieces into dice, add these to the chicken, put the pan in the 
oven, and stew gently for half an hour. Dish up the chicken on a hot dish, arrange 
the cucumber on it. Pour the veal stock into the saucepan the chicken was cooked 
in, add a few drops of lemon-juice, s^alt, and pepper. Put the remaining 1 oz. of 
butter in a small stewpan, and cook it over the fire until nut brown ; add this to the 
sauce. Strain this liquor over the chicken and cucumber, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



1 chicken. 

2 ozs. butter. 
2 shallots. 



^ teaspoonful chopped tarragon. 
^ teaspoonful chopped parsley 
and chervil. 



I gill brown sauce 

(No. 6). 
^ gill white wine. 



1,099. POULET SAUTE AUX FINES HERBES (CHICKEN SAUTED WITH 

FINE HERBS). 

salt. 

pepper. 

\ gill veal stock. 

Chop the shallots finely. Divide the chicken into joints. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan, put in the chicken, sprinkle over the chopped shallots, season with salt 
and pepper, and fry a pale brown. Put the pan in the oven to finish cooking ; this 
will take about half an hour. Dish up the chicken on to a hot dish, and put in a 
warm place. Pour into the stewpan the | gill of white wine ; let this reduce to half, 
then add the veal stock and the brown sauce, put over the fire, and simmer for a 
few minutes ; just at the last add the herbs. Pour over the chicken, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

298 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 



299 



1,100. POULET SAUTE A LA FORESTIERE (CHICKEN SAUTED, FORESTER'S 

STYLE). 



1 chicken. 

3 or 4 potatoes. 

1 glass white wine. 



3 ozs. butter, 
lemon-juice, 
chopped parsley. 



pepper. 

salt. 

2 shallots. 



1 chicken. 

2 small onions. 



12 small heads of mushrooms. 
\ gill brown veal stock. 
\ gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

Cut the chicken into six or eight joints. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stew-pan ; 
put in the pieces of chicken, sprinkle with the chopped shallots, pepper, and salt, 
and fry a light b^o^^•n over a quick fire ; put the pan into the oven for twenty 
minutes ; then add the mushrooms and the potatoes, which are first cut in large 
dice and tossed in butter. Put all into the oven again for ten minutes longer. 
Dish up the chicken, arrange the vegetables round it in groups. Strain off the 
butter in the pan, add the white wine, reduce to half, then pour in the veal stock 
and the broA^Ti sauce, reduce to a good consistency, season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and a few drops of lemon-juice, lastly stir in by degrees 1 oz. of butter. Pour this 
sauce over the chicken, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,101. POULET SAUTE A LA HONGROISE (CHICKEN SAUTED, HUNGARIAN 

STYLE). 

3 ozs. butter. I \\ pints stock. | salt. 1 gill cream, 

paprika pepper, i ^ gill tomtato sauce (No. 77). I 4 ozs. rice. 2 tomatoes. 

Cut the chicken into joints. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, chop one onion 
finely, put the pieces of chicken and the onion into the butter and fry a light bro\vn, 
season with salt and paprika pepper. Peel the tomatoes, cut them in quarters, 
and add to the chicken ; cook in the oven for ten minutes ; then pour over the 
cream, and cook for ten minutes longer. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, shoe 
the remaining onion, fry it in the butter without browning, add the rice, and fry a 
Httle ; stir in the stock by degrees until the rice is done and has absorbed the stock ; 
season with salt and pepper ; add the tomato sauce, cook a little longer, stirring 
well. Make a border on a hot dish mth the rice, arrange the pieces of chicken in 
the centre, and keep hot. Rub the tomatoes and the cream in which the chicken 
was cooked through a sieve or tammy, reheat, and pour it over the chicken. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,102. POULET SAUTE A LA CREME. 

I fowl. I 2 ozs. butter. | seasoning. | ^ oz. flour. | \ pint cream. | i lemon. | chopped parsley. 

Cut the fowl into neat joints. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in 
the pieces of fowl, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry them a Hght brown on 
both sides. Drain off the butter, mix the flour with the cream, pour this over 
the chicken, put on the lid of the saucepan, place again on the fire, and cook gently 
for twenty minutes. When the chicken is tender, take it up and dish it in a pile 
on a hot dish. Add a little fresh butter to the sauce and the juice of half a lemon. 
Pour this over the chicken, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,103. POULET SAUTE A LA MARENGO. 

1 fowl. i pint brown sauce (No. 6). 11 glass white wine. 

1 truffle. I pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 12 fresh mushrooms. 

4 eggs. croutons of puff-paste. 1 1 gill salad-oil. 

Cut the fowl into neat joints, either six or eight according to the size of the 
fowl. Put the salad oil into a stcAvpan, and as soon as hot put in the pieces of 
chicken ; sprinkle over the chopped shallot, pepper, and salt, and fry tliom a light 
brown. This will take about ten minutes. Drain away the oil, add the brown 



salt and pepper. 
1 shallot, 
butter. 



300 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

and tomato sauces and the wine, cover with the hd of the stewpan, place the pan 
in the oven, and let stew gently for about half an hour. Melt a little butter in a 
stewpan, and cook the prepared mushroom heads ; toss them over the fire until 
done. Fry the eggs in the salad oil the fowl was fried in, keeping them round like 
poached eggs. When the chicken is sufficiently cooked, dress it on a silver entree 
dish, strain the sauce over, which must first have the fat removed, arrange the 
mushrooms in four groups round the dish, place the fried eggs between the mush- 
rooms, and garnish with the puff-paste croutons, cut out in crescent shapes and 
baked, sprinkle vnth. chopped truffle and a httle chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 persons. 

1 104. POULET SAUTE A LA PRINCESSE (CHICKEN SAUTED, PRINCESS 

STYLE). 

l\ gills veloute sauce (No. 82). salt. 
4 or 6 artichoke bottoms. pepper. 

Cut the chicken into neat joints. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces 
of chicken, and cook over a slow fire until a very light brown. When nearly cooked, 
add the cream and sauce ; put the pan in the oven to finish cooking. Dish up the 
chicken, pour the sauce over, and keep hot. Have ready cooked sufficient asparagus 
tips to fill the artichoke bottoms ; toss the tips in a httle butter. If the preserved 
artichokes are used, heat them in hot water. Drain the artichokes, season them 
with salt and pepper, and fill them with the asparagus tips. Arrange these round 
the chicken, sprinkle a little chapped parsley over the chicken, and serve. 

Average cost, os. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
June. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1 chicken. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 gill cream, 
asparagus tips. 



I chicken. 
J oz. butter, 
savoury rice. 



2 shallots. 

3 tomatoes. 

6 mushrooms. 



1.105. POULET SAUTE A LA PORTUGAISE (CHICKEN SAUTED, PORTUGUESE 

STYLE). 

^ gill white wine. 1 gill brown veal stock. salt. 

1 gill tomato sauce. 1 teaspoonful chicken pepper, 

chopped parsley. glaze. \ gill oil. 

Cut the chicken into joints, chop the shallots, and slice the mushrooms. Put 
the butter and oil into a stewpan. As soon as it is hot, add the chicken, and fry 
it a light brown colour. Then add the shallots and cook a little longer. Now put 
in the mushrooms, the wine, stock, tomato sauce, and the chicken glaze. Cover 
with the lid, and put it in the oven for half an hour to cook gently. Dish up the 
chicken on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish round with the tomatoes cut in 
halves and filled with rice. Sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1.106. POULET SAUTE A LA STANLEY (CHICKEN SAUTED, STANLEY STYLE). 



1 chicken. 
3 ozs. butter. 



3 onions. 
1 gill cream. 



12 mushrooms. 
1 truffle. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Cut the chicken into joints ; season them with salt and pepper. Melt 2 ozs. 
of butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of chicken, and saute them in the butter. 
Chop the onions finely, and add them to the chicken ; cover with the lid, and place 
in a moderate oven to finish cooking. It will take about half an hour. When 
ready, dish up the chicken, and keep warm. Add the cream to the onions, cook 
for ten minutes, then rub through a sieve. Add to this sauce when reheated 1 oz. 
of butter in small pieces. Pour it over the chicken . Sprinkle over the truffle, chopped 
or shredded, and garnish the dish with groups of cooked mushrooms, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufflcient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 




o 

E 
(\) 

c 

nJ 

a 
> 



-o 
o 

I- 

-a 
O 



la 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 



301 



1,107. POULET FRIT A LA VILLEROI. 



bouquet garni (No. 

194). 
fried parsley. 



2 cloves. 
1 oz. butter. 



2 eggs. 



1 fowl. 2 ozs. bacon. 3 gills Villeroi sauce (No. 

1 onion. \ pint stock. 84). 

1 carrot. breadcrumbs. tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Truss the fowl. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan. Cut up the onion and carrot 
into slices and the bacon into dice. Put these into the butter in the stevvpan. 
Put in the fowl, and fry it a nice brown. Then add the stock, bouquet garni, and 
the cloves. Cook over the fire or in the oven until done. Take up the fowl, untruss, 
and cut it up into joints. Let them get cold. Then dip each piece into Villeroi 
sauce, lay them on an oiled tin or dish, and put on ice to set the sauce thoroughly. 
When ready, roll each piece in breadcrumbs ; then dip them in beaten egg, and toss 
again in breadcrumbs. Fry in very hot fat a golden broA\'Ti. Drain, dish up, and 
garnish with fried parsley. Serve a tureen of tomato sauce separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,108. POULARDE SOUFFLE. 



1 pullet or capon. 
4 ozs. foie-gras. 



lb. chicken forcemeat 
(No. 202). 



truffles. 1 1 gill cream. I veloute sauce (No. 82). 

tongue, i 6 ozs. boiled rice. | 1^ pints chicken stock. 

Draw the pullet, truss it a nice shape, and braise in stock. When done, raise the 
fihets ; cut away the breast-bones, so as to leave a hollow. Mix together the 
chicken forcemeat, the foie-gras, which has been rubbed through a sieve, and the 
whipped cream. Stuff the bird with this forcemeat in layers. Between each layer 
put the fillets, which have been cut in slices, and slices of truffle. Give the bird its 
original shape. Put the fowl in a saucepan ; add sufficient chicken or veal stock 
to steam the preparation ; cover, and put on the fire or in the oven for about thirty 
minutes. Boil the rice in the stock, and, when cooked, shape a fiat bed of it on a 
hot dish. Dress the pullet on this ; coat with veloute sauce, and decorate it with 
truffle and tongue, cut in fancy shapes. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1,109. SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE A LA DUCHESSE (FILLETS OF CHICKEN, 

DUCHESS STYLE). 



2 chickens. 

3 ozs. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



\ gill stock. 
I gill cream, 
legg. 



1 truffle. 



6 artichoke bottoms. 
^ pint veloute sauce 
(No. 82). 

This will make four large fillets and 



pepper. 

salt. 



mashed potato, 
cooked asparagus 
heads or peas. 

Raise the breast fillets of the two chickens, 
four small ones, which are underneath the large fillets nearest to the breast-bone 
Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan ; put in the fillets, and fry lightly for a few 
minutes, without allowing them to brown. Press lightly until cold. Take all the 
rest of the meat off the chickens, put it into a mortar, and pound till smooth. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan ; stir in the flour ; dilute with the stock, and boil 
until thick ; add this sauce to the chicken in the mortar ; pound all well together 
break in the egg ; season with pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly ; rub through a 
wire sieve, and then add the cream. Put a thick layer of this forcemeat on each 
fillet ; smooth with a wet knife ; put them on a buttered baking-tin ; cover with a 
buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Make a 
a flat bed of mashed potato on a hot dish ; arrange the fillets on it ; garnish them witli 
truffle, cut out in the shape of a star. Have ready the cooked asparagus heads or 
peas and the artichoke bottoms. Toss the green vegetables in I oz. of butter, and 
fill the artichoke bottoms with them. Garnish the dish with these, and send the 
sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable in the summer 
Sulficieiit for 4 or 6 persons. 



302 



THE ILEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 fowl. 

2 ozs. butter. 

J lb. spaghetti. 



3 ozs. grated Dutch 

cheese. 
1 pint tomato pulp. 



4 mushrooms. I 1 onion. 
1 glass sherry. pepper. 
\ oz. cornflour, i salt. 



1,110. POULET PORTUGAISE. 

2 ozs. lean ham. 

3 ozs. breadcrumbs. 
1 dessertspoonful vinegar. 

Truss the fowl for boiling ; soak the breadcrumbs in a little milk ; chop the ham 
and mushrooms finely ; mix tliese with the breadcrumbs ; season with pepper and 
salt, and stuff the fowl. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan. When hot, put in the 
fowl, and fry it a light brown. Slice the onion ; put it into a stewpan with the 
tomato pulp, sherry, and vinegar ; stir until it boils, and then simmer for ten 
minutes. Mix the cornflour Avith a little water to a smooth paste ; add it to the 
tomato, and boil for a few minutes longer ; season to taste ; strain into a clean 
saucepan ; add the fowl to it, and simmer until the bird is done. Cook the spaghetti 
for twenty minutes in boiling salted water. When tender, drain. Melt 1 oz. of 
butter in a saucepan ; put in the spaghetti ; add the cheese, and toss over the fire 
until the cheese is melted ; season with salt and cayenne. Dish up the fowl on 
a hot dish ; pour the sauce over, and serve, accompanied with the dresse I 
spaghetti. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



1,111. FILETS DE POULETS A L'OPERA (FILLETS OF CHICKEN, OPERA 

STYLES. 



2 chickens. 


clarified butter. 


1 oz. foie-gras. 


1 teaspoonful Bovri 


1 egg. 


\ pint Bechamel 


1 oz. butter. 


salt. 


breadcrumbs. 


sauce. 


\ gill cream. 


cayenne. 



Lift the breasts of the chickens as in previous recipe (No. 1,110). Remove the 
skin, and dip them in the beaten egg ; then toss in breadcrumbs. Fry these in 
clarified butter. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar Mdth 1 oz. of butter ; rub through 
a fine sieve. Heat the sauce ; add the Bovril and cream to it ; season with salt and 
cayenne. Work in the foie-gras and butter ; make hot, but do not boil. Dish up 
the fillets on a hot dish, and serve the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d., allowing for half the price of chickens. Time required, 
30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,112. CUISSES DE VOLAILLE AUX EPINARDS (CHICKEN LEGS WITH 

SPINACH). 



4 chicken legs. 
6 chicken livers. 
1 oz. foie-gras. 



mashed potatoes. 

spinach. 

brown saiace (No. 6). 



2 ozs. bacon. ' 1 onion. 

1 shallot. \ pint stock. 

1 carrot. bouquet garni. 

After removing the breasts of a chicken for an entree, the legs can be used up in 
the following way : Leave on when removing the breasts as much of the skin as 
possible ; bone the legs, leaving a small portion of the leg-bone attached. Chop the 
bacon and the livers, the shallot and one small shce of carrot ; put the bacon into 
a saute-pan ; cook a Httle, then add the hvers, the shallot, and carrot ; stew over the 
fire until cooked ; season with salt and pepper ; add a little brown sauce, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Stuff the legs with this puree, and fold the skin over the 
stuffing. Cut the onion and carrot into pieces ; put them into a pan with th& 
bouquet garni and the stock ; place the stuffed legs on the top, and braise for thirty 
minutes. When cooked sufficiently, take them up and drain. Shape a circular 
border of mashed potato on a hot dish ; dress the legs on this ; pour some brown 
sauce over, and fill the centre with spinach. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



1 chicken. I breadcrumbs. 
1 oz. butter. | mustard. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 303 

1,113. POULET CRAPAUDINE (SPATCHCOCK OF CHICKEN). 

1 chicken. 1 1 oz. butter. | breadcrumbs. | piquant sauce (No. 59). | salt. ] pepper. 

Split the chicken down the backbone. Open it without separating the two 
halves ; flatten it, and wipe with a damp cloth. Fix it with a skewer through the 
wings ; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with butter. Put it in the oven 
to partly cook it. Take it up ; sprinkle again with butter, and then with bread- 
crumbs, and grill it over or in front of a bright fire until it is quite cooked. This 
will take about twenty minutes. Remove the skewer ; dish it up, and send to 
table with piquant sauce, served separately. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,114. POULET GRILLE A LA DIABLE (CHICKEN DEVILLED). 

cayenne. | sauce diable (No. 
1 lemon. | 31). 

Split the chicken down the backbone ; flatten it ; season with pepper and salt, 
and sprinkle with melted butter. Put into the oven to half cook it. Take it up, 
coat with mustard mixed with cayenne ; sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs. Press 
these on with, the blade of a knife, so that they stick to the mustard. Sprinkle Avith 
a few drops of melted butter, and finish the cooking of the bird, either over or in 
front of a clear fire. When cooked, dish it up, and garnish the dish with thin slices 
of lemon. Serve with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time requir*}d, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,115. POULET GRILLE A L'lTALEINNE (GRILLED CHICKEN, ITALIAN 

STYLE). 

1 chicken. 2 shallots. I \ pint brown sauce (No. 6). pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. \ gill white wine. I 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). salt. 

Split the chicken down the back, flatten, and skewer it so as to keep it flat ; 
season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with butter. Cook it in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes. Take it up ; sprinkle over some more butter, and grill it over a 
clear fire until cooked. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; put in the chopped 
shallots, and fry ; then add the wine, boil, and reduce. Stir in the broAvn and 
tomato sauces. Cook for ten minutes ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Dish 
up the chicken ; take out the skewers. Send to table with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,116. POULET A LA CATALANE. 



J chicken. 
L uzs. butter. 
1 gill white wine. 



\ lb. mushrooms. 
8 chestnuts. 
8 glazed onions. 



2 tomatoes. 

salt. 

pepper. 



I pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
I pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
meat or cl' cken glaze. 

Cut up the chicken into snicall joints. Melt the butter in a sautc-pan ; put in 
the chicken, and fry a nice bro\Mi colour, then add the wine ; reduce until nearly 
dry ; season with pepper and salt, then add the tomato and Espagnole sauces ; 
put on the cover, and cook in the oven for thirty minutes. Peel the mushrooms, 
saute them in butter, and cut in halves or quarters. Cook the chestnuts in con- 
somme ; parboil the button onions ; then finish cooking them in meat-glaze. Peel 
the tomatoes ; cut them in quarters, press out the seeds, saute in butter. When 
the chicken is cooked, dish it in pyramid form on a hot dish ; remove all fat from the 
sauce ; strain it over the chicken ; arrange the chestnuts, mushrooms, and tomatoes 
round the chicken in groups ; sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Suflicient for 4 or 5 persons. 

PT. TV. 20 



304 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



salt, 
pepper. 
1 truffle. 



1,117. POULARDE A L'AURORE. 

1 pullet. I 3 tomatoes. I ^ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

8 chicken quenelles (Nos. ! 2 ozs. ham. ' \ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
202 and 32i). i 3 ozs. butter. ! chopped parsley. 

Truss the pullet for boiling ; boil in white stock until done — this depends on tlif 
size of the bird. Heat the veloute sauce ; mix in the tomato sauce ; bring to the 
boil, and simmer gently for ten minutes ; then work in by degrees 1 oz. of butter 
in little bits, but do not let the sauce boil again. Prepare the chicken quenelles , 
poach them, and keep hot till required. Cut each tomato in half ; squeeze out the 
seeds, and fill with chopped ham, mixed with chopped parsley, and diluted with a 
little of the sauce. As soon as the jjullet is cooked, dish in the centre of a hot dish ; 
coat it all over with the sauce ; surround with the quenelles and stuffed tomatoes, 
arranged alternately. Garnish the chicken and quenelles with chopped truflfle ; 
sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each tomato, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 



1,118. BORDURE DE FILETS DE VOLAILLE (BORDER OF FILLETS OF 

CHICKEN). 



2 fowls. 

1 carrot. 

2 onions. 



^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
J pint demi-glace sauce (No. 
29). 



3 ozs. rice. 

1 oz. butter. 

1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



salt. 

pepper. 

2 ozs. bacon. 



bouquet garni. 
1^ pints stock, 
larding br.con. 

Lift the breasts from the fowls ; remove the skin and sinews ; cut the larding 
bacon into strips, and lard the fillets. Slice the carrot and one onion ; cut the 
bacon into dice. Put these into a steu^an ; add | pint of stock, and bring to the 
boil. Put the fillets on the vegetables, and braise in the oven for twenty minutes. 
Take them up, drain, and finish cooking in the demi-glace sauce. Melt i oz. of 
butter in a stewpan ; put in the other onion, sliced, and fry a little ; then add to 
it the raw rice ; fry a light brown ; moisten with the stock, and boil until the rice 
has absorbed all the stock and is quite tender. A little more stock may be added, 
if found necessary. Now stir in the tomato sauce, salt, and pepper. Mix all 
together thoroughly. With this risotto mixture make a neat border on a hot dish • 
arrange the fillets neatly in the centre. Sauce over the fillets with the demi-glace 
sauce, and pour the remainder round the base of the border. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



1,119. COTELETTES DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN CUTLETS) 



chicken meat left from 

last recipe. 
I oz. butter. 



\ oz. flour. 
1 gill stock, 
breadcrumbs. 



2 teaspoonfuis chopped parsley. 1 salt. 
fried parsley. I 1 egg. 

J pint supreme sauce (No. 74). i pepper. 

Take the fowls left over from last recipe (No. 1,118) ; draw and truss them for 
boiling. Put into boiling water, and simmer until done. Take them up, and let 
cool ; then remove all the meat from the bones ; chop it up finely, rejecting all 
gristle and sinews. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; stir in the flour ; add the si-ock, 
and boil until very thick. Mix the chopped chicken into this ; season with salt and 
pepper ; add the chopped parsley ; mix thoroughly. Turn this preparation on to 
a plate ; shape it into a round cake of even thickness, and let it stand until cold. 
Divide the mixture into even-sized pieces. Shape each piece to the shape of a 
cutlet. Dip in beaten egg, and then in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in 
smoking fat. Dish in a circle on a hot dish ; garnish with fried parsley, and send 
to table with them a sauce-tureen of supreme sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required. 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 cutlets. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 



305 



1,120. MEDAILLONS DE POULARDE A LA PRINCESSE (MEDALLIONS 

OF FOWL, PRINCESS STYLE). 



1 large fowl. 

2 eggs. 

\ lb. veal. 



1 gill cream. 
4 ozs. butter. 

2 ozs. flour. 



^ lb. cooked tongue. 

3 gills asparagus points or peas. 

J pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 



1 gill stock. 
1 truffle, 
pepper and salt. 



Raise the fillets of the fowl carefully, take off all the rest of the meat from the 
bird, remove the skin and sinews. Flatten the fillets slightly, and cut them into 
rounds all of an even size, about 2 inches across. Shape as many as are wanted 
in addition to these (about eight medallions) from the best parts of the rest of the 
fowl. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the medallions, and cook for a 
few minutes ; then take them up, and press between two baking-sheets, with a 
light weight on top, until cold. Cut up the rest of the meat of the fowl, put it into 
the mortar with the veal and tongue, and pound all well together. Melt the re- 
mainder of the butter (2 ozs.) in a small ste\vpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, 




Fig. 64. — Medaillons de Poularde a la Princesse. 

and boil until tliick. Pound this panade with the meat, add two eggs, salt and 
pepper ; rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, and mix the cream, 
lightly whipped, to it. Cover the medallions on one side with a thick layer of the 
forcemeat. Put a small portion into a forcing-bag with a pipe attached, and pipe 
a border round the medallions. Place in the centre of each a slice of truffle. With 
the remainder of the mixture fill a buttered border mould, cover with a buttered 
paper, and steam in the oven or in a steamer for half an hour. Place the medallion.s 
on a greased baking-tin, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven for 
fifteen minutes. As soon as the border of forcement is cooked, turn it out on to a 
hot dish, fill the centre with either asparagus-tips or peas tossed in butter ; arrange 
the medallions round the top of the border, leaning against the vegetable. Pour 
the sauce round the base of the dish. 

Average cast, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



20—2 



306 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,121. BARQUETTES DE POULET A LA NANXY. 



1 chicken. 
1 truffle, 
half-glaze. 



2 ozs. foie-gras. 
asparagus heads. 
2 ozs. butter. 



pastry, 
salt. 



1 ec". 

^ gill cream. 

glaze. 



1 tablespoonful port wine or sherry. 

1 oz. flour. 

J gill chicken stock. pepper. 

Line some Ijarquette moulds with tartlet pastry, fill them with raw rice, and 
bake in a moderate oven, keeping as white as possible. Take the meat off the 
f'hicken, free it from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar. Melt 1 oz. of butter 
in a small ste^vpan, put in the flour, mix to a smooth paste ; then add the stock, 
r.nd cook until the sauce is thick. Add this panade to the chicken, and pound 
together until quite fine. Then break in the egg, season with salt and pepper, 
mix thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve. Place this puree into a basin, and 
stir in the whipped cream. Shape some of the forcemeat into large, round, flat 
quenelles, put them into a buttered saute-pan, pour in gently some hot stock or 
water, and poach them over the fire for ten minutes. Pass the foie-gras through a 
sieve, dilute it with a little half-glaze, flavoured with the wine ; stir into this the 
remainder of the forcemeat after the quenelles have been made. Fill the barquette 
crusts with this preparation ; place in moderate oven for ten minutes ; place one of 
the quenelles on the top of each, garnish each quenelle with a slice of truffle. Have 
ready the asparagus heads, mix them with 1 oz. of melted butter, and make them 
thoroughly hot in it. Brush over the quenelles with melted glaze, and place at each 
end of the barquettes, at each side of the quenelles, a little heap of the asparagus 
heads. Dish up and serve hot. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 barquettes. 



1,122. TURBAN DE FILETS DE VOLAILLE (TURBAN OF CHICKEN 

FILLETS). 



2 fowls. 

8 mushrooms. 

2 truffles. 



2 ozs. tongue, 
small quenelles. 
4 ozs. butter. 



2 eggs. 

J gill cream. 

salt and pepper. 



1 pint supreme sauce (No. 74). 

2 ozs. flour. 
1 gill stock. 

Take off the breasts of the two fowls, remove the skin, divide them into thin 
slices. Butter a border mould, and line it with the fillets, so that these hang over 
the top of the mould. Take the remainder of the meat off the chickens, take away 
the sinews and skin. This amount of chicken should weigh 1 lb. ; if not, make up 
'ihe quantity with veal. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the 
Itock, and boil until thick. Put the chicken into a mortar with the panade ; pound 
well ; then add the eggs, salt, and pepper ; rub through a sieve. Mix the cream, 
Hghtly whipped, into the puree. Fill up the lined mould with this forcemeat, 
draw over it the fillets that overlap the edge of the mould, cover with a buttered 
paper, and steam in a steamer for about thirty minutes. With the remainder of 
the forcemeat make some small quenelles in teaspoons. Cut the truffle, tongue, 
and the cooked mushrooms in julienne strips. Melt the remainder of the butter, 
toss the julienne garnish in it until quite hot, add the quenelles to it, and keep hot. 
As soon as the turban is cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish, arrange the garnish in 
the centre, and pour the sauce round. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



1,123. CHICKEN PIE. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 
I lb. mushrooms. 
1 oz. butter. 

Cut the fowl into small joints, season these with salt and pepper. Slice the 
veal thinly, line the bottom of a pie-dish with this, place on the top a layer of 
chicken. Chop the mushrooms finely, saute them in the butter in a small stew- 



1 fowl. 

I lb. veal fillet. 

4 ozs. bacon. 



pepper. 

salt. 

chopped parsley. 



puff-pastry. 

stock. 

legg. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 



0] 



ou/ 



pan ; sprinkle half of this over the pieces of chicken, then a layer of hard-boiled eggs, 
over that thin shces of bacon and chopped parsley. Continue in this way until al? 
the ingredients are used up and the pie-dish is full ; fill the dish three parts full with 
stock. Put a strip of pastry round the edge of the dish, wet this lightly with water, 
cover the pie with puff-pastry rolled out to the proper size and thickness ; press 
down the paste on to the wet edge of paste, trim round. Decorate the paste at the 
edge according to taste ; brush over the pie with beaten egg, make a slit in the 
centre of the lid, and place a circle of pastry leaves in the centre of the paste. Put 
the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for about one hour and a half. Before serving 
pour in a little stock. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



1,124. VOL-AU-VENT DE VOLAILLE AUX TRUFFES (VOL-AU-VENT 

OF CHICKEN WITH TRUFFLES). 



J lb. puff-paste. 
J cold chicken. 



^ pint supreme sauce (No. 74). 
6 small quenelles of chicken. 



2 ozs. tongue. 
6 mushrooms. 



salt. 

2 truffles. 



Make the pufiF-paste, which must only have six turns. Cut a round with a sharp 
knife, egg over the top, and then with a round cutter mark the top, cutting partly 




Fig. 63. — Vol-ad-Vent de Volaille aux Tkuffes, 



through the pastry, leaving a margin of 1 inch wide all round. Put the case into 
a hot oven and bake a nice brown. When baked, lift the centre piece of pastry, 
scoop out the soft paste inside, and fill with the mixture. Cut the chicken meat, 
free from bone, skin, and sinew, into neat pieces ; slice the truffles ; cut the cooked 
mushrooms and the tongue into dice. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, with 
the quenelles and the sauce, season to taste, and stir over the fire until hot, but cl»i 
not let it boil. As soon as the vol-au-vent is required for table, fill with the mixture, 
put tlie piece cut from the centre on the top to form a lid, and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

Average cost, Ss. 9d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufifi 
oient for 4 persons. 



308 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,125. FRICASSE DE POULET (FRICASSE OF CHICKEN). 



1 chicken. 

1 quart water. 

1 onion. 



1 clove. I sprig parsley. 

1 carrot. I 1 bay-leaf. 



2 ozs. flour, 
yolks of 2 eggs. 
\ gill cream. 



lemon -juice. 

pepper. 

salt. 



1 stalk celery. 2 ozs. butter. 

Truss the chicken for boihng ; put it into a ste\\-pan Avith 1 quart of hot water ; 
bring to the boil, and skim well. Add the onion, stuck with 1 clove, the carrot, 
celery, parsley, and bay-leaf ; simmer gently for thirty minutes or longer, according 
to the size of the fowl. As soon as the bird is cooked, take it up ; drain, and let 
cool. Strain the stock, and measure 1 pint. Now proceed to make the sauce. Melt 
the butter in a steA\-pan ; stir in the flour ; add the pint of stock, and bring it to the 
boil, stirring all the time ; simmer gently for twenty minutes ; season to taste with 
pepper and salt. Bind the sauce with the egg-yolks and cream ; do not allow it 
to boil ; add a squeeze of lemon-juice. Cut the chicken into neat joints ; put these 
into the sauce ; let them get thoroughly hot. Dish up the fowl ; pour the sauce 
over, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,126. POUSSINS A LA VIENNOISE. 



3 chicks (baby chickens). [ fipur. 
breadcrumbs. i egg. 



fried parsley. I salt, 
lemons. | pep^Der. 



Cut the chicks into four pieces each ; season them with pepper and salt, and 
dredge Avith flour ; dip them in beaten egg, and toss in breadcrumbs. Fry in very 
hot fat ; drain and dish them in a pile, on a folded napkin arranged on a hot dish. 
Garnish the dish with fried parsley and quartered lemons. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. to 2s. 6d. each. Time required, fifteen minutes. Season- 
able, April to September. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,127. POUSSINS A LA PORTUGAISE. 

3 chicks. 1 pint brown sauce \ gill sherr3\ I pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. (No. 0). 2 tomatoes. salt. 

Cut the chicks into four pieces, melt the butter in a saute-pan, and fry the 
pieces of chicken a nice brown colour. Heat the sauce ; put in the pieces of chicken, 
and stew gently until done. Ten minutes before the chicks are cooked, add the 
AA ine and sliced tomatoes, and finish cooking. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Dish up the pieces of chicken in the form of a pyramid on a hot dish, and pour the 
sauce over. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. to 2s. 6d. each. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
April to September. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



CANARD (DUCK) 

1,128. SALMI DE CANARD (SALMI OF DUCK). 

1 large duck. \ 2 ozs. butter. | 1 oz. flour. | 1 onion. | 1| pints stock. | salt. | pepper. 

Roast the duck, cook it very underdone. Take it up, cut it in neat joints. 
Chop the carcass into small pieces ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a stew^^an, put in the 
pieces of the carcass and the onion sliced, fry it broAvn. Then add the stock, simmer 
gently for about one hour, then strain it. Melt the remainder of the butter in a 
steAvpan, stir in the flour, and add f pint of the stock made from the carcass, season 
Avith pepper and salt, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Add to it the gravy 
from the pan in Avhich the duck Avas roasted. Put the joints of duck into this sauce, 
and simmer gently for tAventy minutes. A glass of red wine may be added to the 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT) 309 

sauce before the duck is put in (if liked). When cooked, dish the duck on a hot 
dish, and strain the sauce over ; it is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suflficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,129. CANARD BRAISE AUX NAVETS (BRAISED DUCK WITH TURNIPS). 

] duck. bay-leaf. I 2 ozs. butter. I 6 turnips. ^ gill cream. 

1 large onion. I 1 carrot. | ^ pint stock. | pepper and salt. flour. 

Prepare duck, and truss it for roasting. Slice the onion and carrot. Melt the 
butter in a ste^^•pan, put in the sliced vegetables and the duck, fry over the fire 
until the duck is a nice broAMi colour. Strain off the fat, add the stock and bay-leaf, 
place the pan in the oven, and cook until the bird is done. Peel the turnips, cut 
two of them into quarters, and fry them bro^^Tl in butter ; put them, with the duck, 
to finish cooking. Boil the other four turnips until tender, rub them through a 
fine sieve, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and make hot ; season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar ; stir in the cream, make very hot. Take up 
the duck, dish it on a bed of mashed turnips, and arrange the fried quarters round. 
Strain the liquor from the duck, remove the fat, and thicken with a little flour, 
pour it over the duck and serve, or the sauce can be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suflficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,130. CANARD AUX MARRONS (BRAISED DUCK WITH CHESTNUTS). 

I duck. 6 slices streaky bacon. | i gill port vrine. pepper and salt, 

butter. ' ^ pint bro^ro sauce (No. 6). | 24 chestnuts. i 1 gill gravy. 

Truss the duck. Cut the bacon into 2-inch pieces, put these into a stewpan. 
place the duck on it, season with pepper and salt, put some pieces of butter on the 
duck, and cook in the oven until browTi, and half cooked. Butter a baking-tin, 
slit the chestnuts, put them on the baking-tin, and roast in the oven until done ; 
skin and peel them, and keep hot. As soon as the duck is half cooked, take it up, 
and cut into neat joints. The carcass of the bird should be chopped into pieces, 
and the brown sauce and gravy added to it. Simmer all together for twenty minutes. 
Put the pieces of duck into a clean stewpan, strain the sauce over it, and simmer 
gently for thirty minutes. Ten minutes before dishing, add the wine, season to 
taste, and simmer for the remainder of the time. Dish up the duck, remove the fat 
from the sauce, and strain over the bird. Arrange the roasted chestnuts round the 
dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required I hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Suflficient for 4 persons. 

1,131. SALMI DE CANARD A LA MONTGLAS. 



2 ducks. I 1 oz. butter. 

C mushrooms. ^ gill sherry, 
bouquet garni. 2 slices ox-tongue. 



^ pints Epagnole sauce (No. 33). 
i gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
croutons of fried bread. 



^ pint stock. ' 2 truffles. 



1 small onion. 
1 small carrot. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Clean and prepare the ducks, half roast them, let them cool, then cut into joints. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, slice the onion and carrot, add them to the butter 
and the boucjuet garni, lay on these the pieces of duck, season with pepper and salt, 
and cook over the fire for about ten minutes. Strain off the butter ; add the wine, 
stock, Espagnole, and tomato sauces ; cover with the lid of the pan ; put it in the oven, 
and cook for thirty minutes gently. Dish the pieces of duck on a hot dish ; take 
off the fat from the sauce ; put into it the cooked mushrooms, ox-tongue, and truflfles 
all cut in julienne strips or dice ; put these into the sauce, warm up, and pour it 
over the pieces of duck. Garnish the dish with some fried bread croutons, and serve. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suflfi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



310 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



CANETON (DUCKLING) 



1 duckling. 
I onion. 
\ carrot. 



1,132. 

piece of celery. 
2 ozs. fat bacon. 
2 ozs. butter. 



I gill white win8w 
1 gill veal gravy. 
1 orange. 



CANETON A LA BIGARADE. 

1 teaspoonful lemon-juice. 

1 teaspoonful orange and lemon-rind. 

seasoning. 

Cut the onion, celery, and carrot into thin sUces, and the bacon into inch square 
pieces. Put these into a stewpan, place the duckling on the top of the vegetables, 
cover with the butter, and cook the bird for twenty minutes. Lift the lid, and place 
the pan in the oven to brown the bird. Dish up the duclding. Strain the fat away 
from the stewpan, add the wine and gravy, and reduce over the fire for ten minutes. 
Add the juice of one orange and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Cut a little orange 
and lemon-rind into juHenne strips, cook for five minutes in boiling water, then 
add to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the bird, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,133 

1 diuckling. 

4 ozs. larding bacon 



CANETON A LA ROUENNAIS (DUCKLING, ROUEN STYLE). 

pepper and salt. 



J small onion, 
chopped parsley. 



1 lb. ducks' livers and hearts. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrum'os. 



1 egg. 



Cut the bacon into dice, chop the onion and slice the livers and hearts, put the 
bacon into a saute-pan with the chopped onion, and fry over the fire for a few 
minutes ; then add the shced livers, and cook them a little, but they should be under- 
done ; stir in some salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Turn 
this mixture into a mortar and pound well, then rub the mixture through a wire 
sieve. Put this forcemeat into a basin, mix in the breadcrumbs, beat the egg, 
and stir in sufficient to bind the mixture. Stuff the duckling with this forcemeat, 
put it on a baking-tin, and roast in the oven, keeping it rather underdone. Make 
the gravy from the essence of the duck left in the baking-tin, pour this round the 
duckling, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufiicient for 4 persons. 

1,134. CANETON AUX PETITS POIS (DUCKLING WITH PEAS). 

4 ozs. salt breast of pork. i 1 gill stock. 

Jpintdemi-glacesauce(No. 29). I seasoning. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, cut the pork into dice, fry it in the butter with 
the onions. Take out the pork and onions, and fry the duckling in the same butter 
a nice brown ; strain off the butter ; add the stock and sauce, the peas, pork, and 
onions ; finish cooking. Dish the duckling, cover it with the garnish, pour the 
sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 duckling. 

2 ozs. butter. 



12 button onions. 
1 pint peas. 



1 duckUng. 
veal, 
fat pork. 



1 oz. butter. 
I gill stock. 
3 ozs. foie-gras. 



1,135. BALLONTINES DE CANETON (BALLONTINES OF DUCKLING), 

1 oz. flour. seasoning. 

3 ozs. mushrooms. meat-glaze. 

4 egg-yolks. cooked j^eas. 

Bone the duckling, keep the skin but remove the tendons, chop the flesh, take 
half its weight in veal, the same of fat pork, and pound these in a mortar together. 
Melt 1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil 
until thick. Put this panade to the meat in the mortar, pound all well together, 
add the eggs, and mix thoroughly. Rub this mixture through a wire sieve, then 
mix into it the foie-gras, cut in dice, and the mushrooms, previously chopped and 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 



311 



sauted in butter. Divide this mixture into equal portions, each weighing about 
2 ozs. ; wrap each portion in a piece of the skin of the duckhng, wrap each in a piece 
of muslin, and poach in stock prepared from the carcass of the duckling. These 
ballontines will take about thirty minutes to cook. When cooked take them up, 
remove the muslin, and glaze them. Dish in a circle, and arrange the cooked peas 
or any other suitable vegetable in the centre. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



3 or 4 pigeons. 
2 ozs. butter. 



cooked peas. 

1 glass port wine. 



1,136. COMPCte DE pigeons. 

1 pint brown sauce | salt. 
(No. 6). I pepper. 

Cut each pigeon in half. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the halved pigeons, 
and fry them a nice colour. When the pigeons are bro\vn, strain off the fat, and add 
the sauce ; bring to the boil, and then simmer gently for forty-five minutes ; season 
to taste with salt and pepper, stir in the port wine, and cook for ten minutes loncrer. 




Fiii. 66. — CuMPOTE DE Pigeons. 



When the pigeons are sufficiently cooked, dish them neatly on an entree dish, strain 
the sauce over, and arrange the cooked peas in the centre of the dish. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 



COMPOTE DE PIGEONS A LA BOURGEOISE. 



2 Bordeaux pigeons. 
^ pint brown sauce (No. 
6 small button onions. 



6). 



cooked green peas. 
6 pieces carrot, 
butter. 



1,137. 

6 mushrooms. glaze. 

salt. I gill claret. 

6 pieces turnip. pepper. 

TruiiS the pigeons, and braise them for about forty minutes ; then cut them in 
halves. Heat the brown sauce, add the claret to it, put in the pigeons, and cook for 
ten minutes longer. Cut the carrots and turnips to the shape of olives, toss in butter, 
and finish cooking them in stock. Parboil the onions, strain, and add to them about 
2 ozs. of meat-glaze ; toss them in this until they are nicely glazed and sufficiently 
cooked. Melt a little butter in a stewpan ; put in the mushroom heads, and 
toss them in it until cooked. Dish the pigeons neatly on an entree dish, pour 



312 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



the sauce over and round, and garnish with the carrots, turnips, mushrooms, and 
peas in groups round the dish. 

Averaf^e cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 2 persons. 



1 138 COTELETTES DE PIGEONS FARCIS A LA DUCHESSE 

PIGEON, DUCHESS STYLE). 



(CUTLETS OF 



3 pigeons. 
\ lb. veal. 
2i ozs. butter. 

Bone the pigeons, 



cooked peas. 
2 eggs. 
\ oz. flour. 



^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
I gill stock. 
mashed potatoes. 



salt. 

pepper. 

breadcrumbs. 



leave on the leg-bone, cut in halves. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in 
a frving-pan,"and fry the pigeons on each side until half done ; take them up, and 
put on a tin ; place another tin on the top, with a weight, and press until cold. 
Chop the veal, put it into a mortar, and pound well. Melt \ oz. of butter in a small 
stewpan, stir in the flour, then add the stock, and boil until thick, until it leaves the 
sides of the saucepan clean. Put this panade to the veal in the mortar, mix well, 
then add one egg, season with pepper and salt, pound all well together, then rub 




Fig. 67. — C6telettes de Pigeons A. la Duchesse. 



V 



through a wire sieve. Sprinkle the cut side of each half-pigeon with salt and pepper, 
and cover them with a layer of the veal forcemeat, shaping them neatly to the form 
of a cutlet — this is best done with a Met knife. Beat up the remaining egg on a plate, 
dip the cutlets into it, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. 
Make a circular border on a hot dish with mashed potato, dress the cutlets round the 
border, put a cutlet frill on each bone, arrange the cooked peas in the centre, and 
pour the sauce round the base of the border. Serve hot. Instead of peas, spinach 
or French beans can be used. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,139. PIGEONS A LA FINANCIERE. 

bouquet garni (No. 194). 

\ pint stock. 

I pint financiere sauce (No. 34). 

Truss the pigeons, peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and cut them in slices ; put 
them into a stewpan with the bouquet garni and the stock. Place the pigeons on 



4 pigeons. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



spinach. 

1 oz. meat-glaze. 

small quenelles. 



mushrooms. 

truffles. 

cockscombs. 







f 



i 



o 



CO 

3 
«J 

> 

c/i 

c5 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT) 



313 



tte top of the vegetables, season with sah and pepper, cover with a buttered paper 
and the Hd of the pan. and braise over the fire in the oven for thirty minutes. When 
done, take up, and glaze them with the meat-glaze. Arrange the spinach in the 
centre of the dish ; dress the pigeons against it. Pour the sauce round, and arrange the 
garnish of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs round in groups, and serve. 
Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, i hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 6 persons. 



1,140. PETITES TIMBALES DE PIGEON A LA SUPREME. 



3 pigeons. 

4 ozs. veal. 
2 ozs. bacon. 



2 ozs. panade. 
2 eggs. 
2 truffles. 



2 ozs. butter, 
supreme sauce 
(No. 74). 



2 ozs. ham. 

salt. 

pepper. 



2 tablespoonfuls Bechamel 

sauce (No. 4). 
6 preserved mushrooms. 

Lift the breasts from two of the pigeons ; cook these in butter ; when done, 
put aside to cool. Take all the rest of the flesh from the three raw pigeons. Cut 
the veal Mto small pieces, put this into a mortar with the pigeon-meat, the bacon 
cut up small, and the panade ; season with pepper and salt, and pound all well 
together ; add the eggs one at a time, and mix thoroughly. Rub through a wire 
sieve. Butter ten small timbale moulds, line them thickly with the forcemeat. 
Cut the cooked breast of pigeon, the ham, one truffle, and the preserved mushrooms 
into dice ; mix them with the Bechamel sauce ; season to taste. Fill the centres of 
the lined timbale moulds with this mixture ; cover each with the forcemeat. Stand 
them in a saute-pan, pour in a little boiling water, cover with a greased paper, and 
put them into the oven to steam for twentj^ to thirty minutes. When cooked, 
unmould them on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and round the dish 
garnish the top of each Avith a slice of truffle, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,141. PIGEONS A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

3 pigeons. bouquet garni (No. 194). | lb. veal. 

1 carrot. 1 glass white wine. 1 oz. flour. 

1 onion. J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). cooked ham. 

i pint stock. spinach or peas. truffle. 

Bone the pigeons, leaving on the leg-bone ; cut each in half ; trim and shape to 
the form of cutlets. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a frying-pan ; put in the pigeons, and 
fry them lightly, in order to brown. Put them between two tins, and press until 
cold. Prepare the onion and carrot ; cut in pieces ; put them into a stewpan ; add 
the bouquet garni and the stock ; place the halved pigeons on this, and braise for 
half an hour. Make a panade with the butter, flour, and h gill of stock. Cut up 
the veal ; pound it in a mortar with the panade, egg, and seasoning ; rub through a 
wire sieve. When the pigeons are braised, take them up. Let cool a few minutes; 
then coat with the forcemeat, shaping them neatly with a wet knife. Add the wine 
to the Espagnole sauce ; pour this into a saute-pan ; place the pigeons in it, so as not 
to quite cover them. Put over a buttered paper, and cook gently over the fire for 
eight minutes. Dish the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes in a circle ; pour 
the sauce over ; garnish each cutlet with chopped truffle and ham alternately. 
Arrange the vegetable in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



3 ozs. butter. 

^ gill stock. 

legg. 

salt and pepper. 



1,142. LAPIN A LA VENETIENNE (RABBIT, VENETIAN STYLE). 

1 rabbit. J lb. mushrooms. 4 shallots. pepper and salt. 

2 ozs. bacon. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley. ^ pint stock. J lemon. 
2 ozs. butter. | pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 2 yolks of eggs. cayenne. 

Clean and wash the rabbit ; divide it into neat, small joints, by cutting the lega 
into halves and the back into quarters. Chop the bacon ; put it into a saucepan 



314 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

w ith the butter. Let this melt and get hot. Chop finely the mushrooms, shallots, 
and parsley ; add these to the bacon and butter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
cook until nearly done. Put the pieces of rabbit on the top of the herbs ; add the 
stock ; cover the saucepan, and cook gently until the rabbit is tender. Take out 
the pieces of rabbit ; skim ofE all fat from the liquor in the saucepan ; add the 
vcloute sauce ; boil up, and simmer for ten minutes ; then work in the yolks of the 
eggs. Cook without boihng. Add the strained juice of | a lemon and a pinch 
of cayenne. Mix well, and then put in the rabbit ; warm up without boiling. Dish 
neatly ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,143. LAPIN SAUTE AUX TOMATES (RABBIT SAUTED WITH TOMATOES). 

salt, 
pepper. 

Clean the rabbit ; cut it into joints. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
pieces of rabbit, and fry for a few minutes over the fire ; sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper, the onion chopped, the bouquet garni and the bacon cut up in small pieces. 
Cook all together for ten minutes over the fire. Cut up four tomatoes ; remove the 
seeds, and add to the rabbit. Cover the pan ; put it in the oven, and cook until the 
rabbit is tender. Wlien done, take out the herbs ; strain off the fat ; pour some 
liquid meat-glaze over the rabbit ; toss it in this for a few minutes. Have ready 
the remaining two tomatoes, cut in slices, and cooked in the oven on a buttered tin ; 
season them nicely. Dish up the rabbit on a hot dish ; turn out the contents of the 
saucepan over it ; sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and arrange the slices of 
tomato round the dish, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,144. LAPIN AU SPAGHETTI (RABBIT WITH SPAGHETTI). 



1 rabbit. 

2 ozs. butter. 



3 ozs. lean bacon. 
1 onion. 



bouquet garni (No. 194). 
chopped parsley. 



6 tomatoes, 
meat -glaze. 



1 rabbit. 
1 pint milk. 
4 shallots. 



G peppercorns. 

1 clove. 

2 ozs. butter. 



J oz. flour. 
2 yolks of 
eggs. 



I gill cream, 
salt. 



\ lb. spaghetti. 

Cut the rabbit into neat joints ; put them into a saucepan with the milk, the 
chopped shallots, peppercorns, and clove ; bring to the boil, and then simmer slowly 
until the rabbit is tender. Then take out the pieces and keep warm ; strain the mill; 
the meat was cooked in. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour ; add the 
milk, and bring to the boil ; simmer for ten minutes ; let it cool a little. Mix the 
yolks of the eggs with the cream ; stir into the sauce ; cook over the fire, without 
allowing it to boil ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Have ready the spaghetti, 
which should be dropped into plenty of fast-boiling salted water ; boil for twenty 
minutes, then drain. Mix over the fire with a little butter ; arrange a border of 
this on a hot dish ; dress the rabbit in the centre ; pour the sauce over the meat ; 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,145 GIBELOTTE DE LAPIN (FRENCH STEW OF RABBIT). 

1 Ostend rabbit. | bouquet garni (No. 194). I 12 button onions, i 1^ ozs. flour. 12 mushrooms, 
3 ozs. fat bacon, i 1 glass white wine. | 2 ozs. butter. I 1 pint stock, pepper and salt. 

Wipe the rabbit ; cut it up into joints, rather small. Cut the bacon into small 
pieces ; put this, with the butter, into a stewpan, and cook over the fire for a few 
minutes, stirring meanwhile. Take out the bacon, and put aside ; add the peeled 
onions ; fry them a golden brown, and then put with the bacon. Next, fry the 
pieces of rabbit in the butter until a golden brown ; sprinkle over with salt, pepper, 



^ rabbit. ^ gill stock. 

1 oz. butter. 1 1 egg. 

1 oz. flour. I 1 gill cream. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT) 315 

And the flour ; let the latter brown ; then dilute with the wine and stock ; add the 
bouquet garni. Bring to the boil, and simmer gently for about three-quarters of an 
hour. Then put in the onions and mushrooms, and cook for half an hour longer. 
When ready, dish the rabbit on a hot dish ; keep warm ; skim the fat off the sauce 
in the stewpan ; take out the herbs, and add the bacon to it. Strain the sauce over 
the rabbit, and put the garnish of onions, mushrooms, and bacon over the rabbit 
and round the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, H hours. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,146. DARIOLES DE LAPIN A LA RHINE (DARIOLES OF RABBIT, QUEEN 

STYLE). 

^ pint celery sauce (No. 22). 2 ozs. lean ham. 

i truffle. salt. 

^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). pepper. 

Take off all the meat from the rabbit ; reserve one of the fillets. Cut up all the 
rest of the meat, which should weigh | lb. ; if not, mix with it some veal or fat 
pork. Put this into a mortar, and pound well. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, 
stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until thick. Put this to the meat in the 
mortar ; pound Avell together ; mix in the egg, pepper, and salt. Rub through a 
wire sieve. Whip the cream lightly ; mix it into the puree. Butter some dariole 
moulds ; line them with this forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre. Cook the 
fillet of rabbit by braising on a mirepoix of vegetables. Cut up into dice, mix 
with it the cooked ham cut in the same way, season to taste, and bind with the 
Bechamel sauce. Put a small quantity of this preparation into the centre of each 
mould, cover with some of the forcemeat, and steam for about fifteen minutes, 
with a buttered paper over, either in a steamer or in the oven. Turn out on to a 
hot dish, pour the celery sauce over and round, and place a slice of truffle on the 
top of each. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,147. GRENADINES DE LAPIN A LA FINANCIERE (GRENADINS OF RABBIT. 

FINANCIERE STYLE). 



2 rabbits, 
larding bacon, 
meat-glaze. 



demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 1 onion. 



J pint stock. 
6 peppercorns. 



financiere garnish (No. 223). i 1 carrot. 

2 ozs. butter. I bouquet garni. salt. 

Take off the fillets from the rabbits, cut them into nice pieces, and lard them with 
strips of fat bacon. Put the butter into a saucepan, slice the vegetables, add them 
to the butter, saute slightly, then place the fillets on the top ; add the stock, salt, 
peppercorns, and bouquet garni ; cover with the lid ; simmer gently for half an hour 
or longer. When sufficiently cooked, take up the fillets and glaze them. While 
the fillets are cooking, prepare a forcemeat (No. 202) with the remainder of the 
meat of the rabbit ; put this forcemeat into a border mould, place it in a steamer, 
and cook gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Turn out the border of forcemeat 
on to a hot dish, fill the centre with the garnish, place the pieces of fillets on the 
top of the border, pour the sauce round the base, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to March. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,148. LAPIN A LTTALIENNE (RABBIT, ITALIAN STYLE). 



1 rabbit. 

1 gill olive-oil. 

1 gill white -wine. 



bouquet garni. 
6 peppercorns. 

salt. 



2 ozs. butter. 2 boned anchovies. 

1^ ozs. flour. 2 teaspoonfuls capers. 

U pints stock. 2 shallots. 



Cut up the rabbit into joints. Pour the olive-oil into a saute-pan ; a,s soon as hot, 
put in the pieces of rabbit, and fry until a nice brown colour. Drain off the oil, 



316 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



add the wine, | pint of stock, the bouquet garni, and peppercorns ; stew gently over 
the fire until the pieces of rabbit are tender. When done, take up the rabbit, pile 
the pieces on a hot dish, and keep hot. Strain the liquor from the saucepan, and 
into the same pan put the butter as soon as it is melted ; stir in the flour, add 1 pint 
of stock and the liquor from the rabbit. Stir until it boils, then simmer for ten 
minutes. Chop the capers, shallots, and boned anchovies finely ; put these into the 
sauce, and simmer for ten minutes longer ; season nicely to taste, pour the sauce 
over the rabbit, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, about 1 hour. Seasonable, September to 
March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



12 glazed onions. 
4 ozs. fresh pork. 
4 ozs. butter. 



12 olive-shaped and 
glazed carrots 



1,149. DINDE A LA CHIPOLATA (TURKEY, CHIPOLATA STYLE). 

1 young turkey. | \ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
1 gill Madeira wine. : | pint tomato sauce (Xo. 77). 
12 glazed chestnuts. ' 10 chipolata sausages. 

Cut up the turkey into joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the 
pieces, and fry them a nice brown ; then add the wine and the sauces ; cover with 
the b*d of the saucepan, and cook gently over the fire or in the oven for forty-five 
minutes. Cut the pork in dice or in strips, parboil, and then finish cooking them 
by frying. Cook the chestnuts in stock, keeping them whole ; cook the onions and 
carrots in the same way separately ; finish the cooking of this garnish in glaze. 
Put the pieces of turkey into a clean saucepan, add to it the above garnish, also the 
pieces of cooked pork and the sausages. Strain the sauce over, and cook until 
the turkey is quite tender. Dish up on a hot dish, place the garnish round, strain 
the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1;^ hours. Seasonable, October to March. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2 turkey legs. 

2 ozs. cooked ham. 

legg. 



1 pint white stock. 

1 head celery. 

^ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 



larding bacon, 
lemon-peel, 
salt and pepper. 



1,150. FRICANDEAU DE DINDE. 

6 mushrooms. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 

^ teaspoonful sweet herbs. 

Bone the drumsticks, trim them, and lard with the bacon cut in thin strips. 
Chop the ham, the cooked mushrooms, and a smaU quantity of lemon-peel. Mix 
all together, and add the herbs, breadcrumbs, and seasoning ; beat the egg, and mix 
the ingredients to a paste with it. Stuff the legs with this mixture, flatten the 
stuffing, and shape it with a wet knife, levelhng the edges. Put them into a stewpan 
with the stock, and simmer gently until cooked ; they wiU take about tliirty minutes. 
Wash, cut up, and stew the celery. When done, drain, arrange it on a hot dish, 
and place the turkey-legs on the top. Add some of the cooking-liquor to the 
veloute sauce, reduce to a good consistency, and then pour it over the turkey legs 
and round the dish. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. without turkey. Time required, 40 to 50 minutes. 
Seasonable, September to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,151. COTELETTES DE DINDE A LA BEARNAISE (TURKEY CUTLETS 

WITH BEARNAISE). 

i lb. turkey (cooked). 3 ozs. ham. 

2 or 3 mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 

Bearnaise sauce (No. 7). | gill stock. 

Chop the turkey and ham very finely, or pass it through a fine mincing-machine. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until 
it is tliick and leaves the sides of the pan. Cook the button mushrooms in a little 
butter, chop them and the truffle ; mix them with the turkey and ham. Put these 



I oz. flour. 
1 trutUe. 
legg. 



asparagus tips, 
breadcrumbs, 
salt and pepper. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT) 



317 



chopped ingredients into the stewpan with tiie panade, mix thoroughly until 
hot, season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and put 
it in a cool place to set. When ready for use, divide it into equal parts, shape into 
cutlet shapes, dip into beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat or 
clarified butter. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Toss the asparagus tips 
in a little butter, arrange these in the centre of the cutlets, and serve with Bearnaise 
sauce sent to table with them separately. 

Average cost, 2s. without the turkey. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, 
Februarv and March. Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 



^ lb. breast of cooked turkey. 
2 ozs. beef-marrow. 
2 ozs. white bread. 



milk. 

salt, 
pepper. 



1,152. COTELETTES DE DINDE A LA HONGROISE (TURKEY CUTLETS 

WITH HUNGARIAN SAUCE). 

Hungarian sauce (No. 38). 

1 egg. 

breadcrumbs. 

Chop the breast of the turkey finely. Put the bread into a basin, cover with 
milk, and let it soak for fifteen minutes. Put the chopped turkey into a mortar, 
add the beef -marrow, squeeze the bread in a cloth to take away some of the mixture, 
add this to the other ingredients, pound all well together, season with salt and pepper, 
and put aside on a plate to set. Divide the mixture into equal parts ; make them 
up into the shape of cutlets. Do this on a floured board, egg and crumb them, and 
fry in very hot fat or clarified butter. Drain them free from grease, and dress in a 
circle on a dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve Hungarian sauce 
separately. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. without turkey. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
September to March. Sufficient for 10 cutlets. 



1,153. PAUPIETTES DE DINDE AU RISOTTO (ROLLS OF TURKEY WITH 

RISOTTO). 



2 gills veloute sauce (No. 82). 

juice half lemon. 

1 tablespoonful stock. 



1 turkey. risotto (No. 543). I salt. 

2 truffles. 2 ozs. butter. J gill cream. 
4 ozs. ham. 1 gill white wine. I pepper. 

Remove the breast of a turkey, cut it into thin slices, bat them out with a cutlet- 
bat, and trim them all to the same size. With some of the turkey prepare a force- 
meat ; mix it with cream, and put a layer over each shce of turkey. Chop the 
truffles and ham finely, sprinkle these over the forcemeat, roll up the slices of turkey, 
and tie with string. Butter a saute-pan well, put in the roUs, cover with a buttered 
paper, and the lid of the pan ; cook very gently over the fire or in the oven for 
twenty to thirty minutes. Have ready some risotto, arrange it in the form of a 
flat bed on a hot dish, dress the rolls on it, and keep hot. Add the wine to the pan 
in which the rolls were cooked, reduce to half the quantity, then stir in the veloute 
sauce, the cream, stock, and seasoning ; reduce until of a right consistency, add the 
juice of the lemon, and strain over the turkey. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September 
to ]March. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



1,154. OISON BRAISE A LA PAYSANNE (YOUNG GOOSE, PEASANT 

STYLE). 



1 gosling. 

2 onions. 
1 carrot. 



1 bouquet garni. 

4 ozs. butter. 

^ pint cooked peas. 



12 glazed button onions. ^ gill sherry. 1 clove. 

12 olive-shaped carrots. 1 pint stock. salt. 

12 olive-shaped turnips. 1^ ozs. flour. pepper. 

Cut up the gosling in nice pieces, season them with salt and pepper. Cut the 
onions and carrot in slices. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, put in ihe sliced 
vegetables, the clove, and the bird ; fry aU together until brown ; then add the 



318 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

bouquet garni cand the stock. Cover with the hd of the pan, and cook gently over 
the fire for forty-five minutes. Prepare while the bird is cooking the glazed vege- 
tables ; parboil them in salted water separately. Finish the cooking in liquid 
glaze, shaking the vegetables about in it until well-coated. As soon as the bird is 
cooked, take it up and dish it. Strain the liquor from the pan into a clean sauce- 
pan, add the sherry to it, thicken it with a roux made with 2 ozs. of butter and 
the flour ; simmer for ten minutes ; season to taste. Skim off the fat, and pour over 
the goose ; garnish the dish with the glazed vegetables and cooked peas arranged 
in groups, and serve. 

Averacre cost, uncertain, according to size. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, 
September to March. Sufficient for G persons. 



\ lb. puff-paste. 
4 ozs. foie-gras. 



1,155. PATES DE FOIE-GRAS. 

broAvn sauce (No. 6). salt. 1 egg. 

1 truffle. pepper. parsley. 

Roll out the puff-pastry, line some small patty-pans with it, and fill them with 
raw rice. Place over each a piece of pastry to form a cover, trim neatly, brush 
them over with beaten egg, and bake them a nice colour. When done, take off 
the cover and empty the rice out. Cut the foie-gras in dice, put it into a stewpan, 
add to it the truffle cut small, and sufficient brown sauce to bind, let the mixture 
get hot through, season to taste, and fill the patties ; put on the covers. Arrange 
a napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, dress the patties on it, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 patties. 



1,156. CROQUETTES DE FOIE-GRAS. 



1 terrine of foie-gras (large) 
Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



1 oz. tongue. 1 egg. 



breadcrumbs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 or 3 mushrooms. 

Turn out the foie-gras, take away the coating of fat, take out the truffle. Cut 
the foie-gras and the truffle into small dice, cook the mushrooms, chop them and 
the tongue finely, add to the foie-gras. IVIix in a saucepan, with sufficient sauce 
to bind ; season to taste ; turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Shape into little 
balls or cork shapes, dip them in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them 
in boiling fat a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up on a napkin on a dish, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 croquettes. 

1,157. COQUILLES DE FOIE-GRAS. 

1 terrine foie-gras (large). | 6 mushrooms. I pepper. glaze. 

Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | breadcrumbs. 1 butter. salt. 

Turn out the foie-gras, remove the fat, take out the truffle, chop the foie-gras 
and truffle into small dice, cook the mushrooms in a little butter, chop them small. 
Put the foie-gras, truffle, and mushrooms into a saucepan ; season with salt and 
pepper, and add sufficient Bechamel sauce to moisten the mixture. Heat over the 
fire until thoroughly mixed, add some meat-glaze. Butter some shells, fill them with 
the mixture, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and a few bits of butter, and place them 
under a salamander to brown the surface. Dish up on a folded napkin arranged 
on a dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 shells. 



CHAPTER XIV 

ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 

PERDREAUX (PARTRIDGES) 

1,158. PERDREAUX BRAISES AUX CHOUX (BRAISED PARTRIDGES 

WITH CABBAGE). 

2 partridges. ^ lb. salt pork. I 2 carrots. 1 pint stock. 1 1 gill demi -glace 

2 small cabbages. salt and pepper. ] larding bacon. I 1 onion. | sauce (No. 29). 

Truss and lard the birds ; put them on a baking -tin. Put on them some dripping 
or butter, and roast in the oven for about ten minutes. Cut each cabbage into four 
pieces, remove the hard stalk, and soak them in cold water ; then parboil them for 
ten to fifteen minutes. Cut the pork into nice sHces, arrange these at the bottom 
of a large stewpan ; slice the carrots and onion ; put these next. Place the partridges 
on this. Add the stock, and lay the cabbages on the top of the birds. Cover with 
the lid of the pan, bring to the boil, and stew gently on the top of the fire or in the 
oven for thirty to forty minutes. When cooked, drain the cabbages, arrange them 
on a dish, untruss the birds and place them on the top of the cabbages, garnish round 
the dish with slices of pork and the carrots cut in pieces. Strain the liquor in the 
pan, skim off the fat, and add the demi-glace sauce. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, boil up, pour it over the partridges, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September 1 to Feb- 
ruary 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,159. PERDREAUX FRITS A LA PORTUGAISE (FRIED PARTRIDGES, 

PORTUGUESE STYLE). 



2 partridges. 1 gill salad oil. J pint tomato sauce (No. 77) 



1 Spanish onion. 



12 stoned olives. 



salt, 
pepper. 



croutons of fried bread. 

Draw the partridges, cut them into joints ; season with salt and pepper. Heat 
the oil in a stewpan, put in the partridges, slice the onion and add it, fry the birds a 
nice brown. Drain away the oil and stir in the tomato sauce, bring to the boil, and 
then simmer gently until the partridges are tender. Dish up on a hot dish, strain 
the sauce over, and garnish with stoned ohves and croutons of fried bread. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable from September 1 
to February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,160. PERDREAUX SAUTES A LA MADERE. 

2 partridges. salt and pepper. i 1 shallot. | 12 mushrooms. 

1 oz. butter. ^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). \ J gill Madeira wine. I 6 bread croiitons. 

Prepare the partridges, and cut them mto joints ; each bird will cut into six 
pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the partridges, season with salt and 
pepper, and cook for three minutes on each side until nicely browned. Chop the 
shallot, and add it ; also the wine, the Espagnole sauce, and the mushrooms. Put 
the lid on the stewpan, place it on the fu-e, and cook gently for twenty to thirty 
minutes. Dish up, pour the sauce over, and garnish the dish with the fried bread 
croutons. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

PT. v. 319 21 



320 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,161. PERDREAU BOUILLI, SAUCE AU CELERI (BOILED PARTRIDGE 

WITH CELERY SAUCE). 

1 partriclcre. 1 pint chicken stock. 1 onion. 1 1 gill cream. 1 carrot. 

2 07.S. butter. 1 head of celery. ' 1 clove, i salt and pepper. 1 oz. flour. 

Truss the partridge. Put the stock into a stewpan, Avith the onion stuck with 
the clove, carrot, and the best part of the celery, cleaned and cut in small pieces. 
Put the pan on the fire and make hot, then add the partridge, bring to the boil, and 
simmer until the bird is cooked. When the partridge is done, take it up on to a hot 
dish, untruss it, and keep hot. Take away the carrot and onion from the stock, 
and pass the liquor and celery through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
stir in the flour ; add the stock and puree of celery, and stir until it boils ; simmer for 
ten minutes, then add the cream, and season to taste. Pour the sauce over the 
partridge, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 2 persons. 



2 or 3 partridges. I pepper, 
salt. I butter. 



1,162. COTELETTES DE PERDREAUX GRILLES A LA COLBERT (GI^ILLED 
CUTLETS OF PARTRIDGE, COLBERT STYLE). 

breadcrumbs. 

Colbert sauce (No. 20). 

Singe and draw the partridges, cut them in halves lengthways, sprinkle them 
with salt and pepper. Melt some butter, pour it on to a plate, dip the partridges 
into it, and then into breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear, 
slow fire. When done on one side, turn over and do the other. When the par- 
tridges are cooked, dish them on a hot dish, pour some Colbert sauce over, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. or 8s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 
to February 1. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. 



2 partridges. 

2 tablespoonfuls oil. 

2 shallots. 



1,163. PERDREAUX A LA TOMATE. 

^ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). I salt. 

1 oz. glaze. I pepper. 

1 gill wliite wine. I a few olives. 

Truss the partridges as for boiling. Chop the shallots. Put the oil into a 
stewpan, add the shallots and partridges, and fry together until the birds are a nice 
brown ; season with salt and pepper. Then add the tomato sauce, the glaze, and 
the wine, bring to the boil, and then simmer for twenty minutes. Dish the par- 
tridges on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, taking care that it is free from fat ; garnish 
the dish with olives, and serve. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



I gill glaze, 
yolks of 4 eggs. 
whites of 2 eggs. 



1,164. SOUFFLE DE PERDREAUX (SOUFFLE OF PARTRIDGES). 

2 partridges. pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. panada. 

salt. 1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

Take all the meat from the partridges, remove the skin and sinews, and chop 
the meat finely. Put it into a mortar with the panada, butter, and seasoning, 
pound well until a smooth paste, then pass through a wire sieve. Work in the 
yolks of the eggs, the brown sauce, and glaze. Whip the two whites of eggs very 
stiffly, and stir lightly into the mixture. Grease a mould, put the forcemeat into 
it, and bake in a quick oven. Chop up the bones of the partridges, stew them, and 
make into a good gravy to serve with the souffle. 

Average cost, Gs. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September 1 to February 1. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 321 

1,165. PATE DE PERDREAUX (PARTRIDGE PIE). 

2 partridges. ^ lb. bacon. ! salt and pepper. 1^ ozs. butter. puff paste. 

J lb. veal. parsley. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 6 mushrooms. 1 gill stock. 

Cut the partridges into four pieces each. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in 
the birds, and fry them lightly. Cut the veal and bacon into thin slices, line a pie- 
dish with these slices, put on them the pieces of partridge, season with salt, pepper, 
chopped parsley, and mushrooms, then put over another layer of bacon and veal. 
Cut the hard-boiled eggs in sHces, and put a layer on the top ; pour in the stock. 
Cover the pie with the pastry, and bake for about one hour in a hot oven. When 
done, fill up with stock, and serve either hot or cold. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,166. POITRINES DE PERDREAUX A LA COMTESSE (BREASTS OF 

PARTRIDGES, COUNTESS STYLE). 



breasts of 2 partridges, 
legg. 



breadcrumbs. 
2 ozs. butter. 



Beamaise sauce (No. 7). 
pepper. 



salt. 
mushrooms. 



Raise the breasts from the partridges, trim them neatly, and season with salt and 
pepper. Beat up the egg on a plate, dip in the fillets, brush them well all over with 
the egg, toss in breadcrumbs. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the filletx 
of partridge, and fry them. When cooked, take them up, drain, and dish on a hot 
dish. Saute some mushrooms in butter, garnish the fillets with them, and serve 
with a tureen of Bearnaise sauce separately. 

Average* cost, 7s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

N.B. — Use up remainder of partridges for other dishes. 

1,167. POITRINES DE PERDREAUX A LA MAD£RE (BREASTS OF 

PARTRIDGES WITH MADEIRA). 

breasts of 2 partridges. I 3 ozs. breadcrumbs. Madeira sauce 

2 ozs. butter. | 1 oz. chopped ham. (No. 50). 

Raise the breasts from the partridges. Melt the butter, mix the breadcrumbs and 
ham together, dip the breasts into the butter, then into the breadcrumbs and ham ; 
grill over a bright fire. When done, dish up, and serve with Madeira sauce separately. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,168. CROUSTADE DE PERDREAUX. 



2 partridges, 
larding bacon. 



2 ozs. butter, 
meat glaze. 



salt, 
pepper. 



^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
^ lb. short pastry. 

Cut off the fillets of the partridges, slice them in halves lengthways, trim and lard 
them with thin strips of larding bacon, put these on a buttered tin, cover with a 
buttered paper. Roast the partridges, after removing the fiJlets from the breasts, 
let them get cold, then cut off all the meat from the bones, put it into a mortar, 
and pound well with 1 oz. of butter ; work in | gill of the sauce, and rub tlirough a 
wire sieve. Heat the remainder of the sauce, add to it the essence from the pan in 
which the partridges were roasted, reduce this sauce well, and stir it into the force- 
meat ; season to taste. Line a flan ring with the short pastry, fill with raw rice, 
and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, remove the rice carefully, and fill ^vith the 
partridge forcemeat. The larded fillets are put into the oven to cook for about 
ten to fifteen minutes, taken up and glazed, and dished in the croustade in a circle 
on the forcemeat, the latter being piled high in the centre. Place in the oven with 
a buttered paper over for a few minutes before serving. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to February. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

21—2 



322 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,169. PERDREAU AUX NAVETS (PARTRIDGE WITH TURNIPS). 



1 partridge. 
2\ ozs. butter, 
flour. 



salt, 
pepper. 
2 esrgs. 



breadcrumbs. 

J pint stock. 

\ oz. meat-glaze. 



\ teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 
h pint mashed turnips. 
^ gill cream. 

Take all the flesh off the bird — ^this must be done carefully, so as to have nice- 
shaped pieces-^trim these pieces neatly, take away all skin and sinews. Put the 
bones and carcass of the bird into a stewpan, cover Avith cold water, and stew 
gently. Melt 1| ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the pieces of partridge, and 
fry them a light brown. Mix together a little flour, salt, and pepper, and roll the 
fried meat in it ; dip them in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, put them on a baking- 
tin, and place in a sharp oven. Strain the stock from the bones of the partridge 
(this should be made before the cooking of the partridge meat), measure off I pint, 
drain away the fat from the pan that the partridge fillets were cooked in, stir in the 
stock, add the glaze and the tarragon vinegar, season to taste, and boil until 
reduced by one-third. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the mashed turnips, 
put over the fire, and make thoroughly hot. Add the egg, cook a little, then mis 
in the cream, and season to taste. Butter some little timbale moulds, fill them 
with the turnip mixture, and steam for fifteen minutes. Dress the fillets on a hot 
dish, turn out the turnip shapes, arrange them round the partridge-fillets, pour the 
sauce round, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,170. FILLETS DE PERDREAU EN CAISSES (FILLETS OF PARTRIDGE 

IN CASES). 



1 partridge. 

2 ozs. butter. 



mushrooms. 

6 or 8 paper cases. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Espagnole sauco 
(No. 33). 

Remove the meat from the partridge, trim into nice pieces, cut them into rounds 
the right size for the paper cases, allowing three thin rounds for each case. Melt 
the butter in a saute-pan, put in the rounds of partridge meat, and fry them. When 
done, drain them. Butter the cases lightly, put them into the oven to warm ; 
cook the mushrooms in butter. Place a round fillet in each case ; sprinkle with 
pepper and salt ; on that place a cooked mushroom, then another fillet and mush- 
room. Continue until the cases are full. Pour over the top layer a small quantity 
of Espagnole sauce. Dress the cases on a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for G or 8 cases. 

1,171. PERDREAUX SAUTES A LA CHASSEUR (PARTRIDGES SAUTED, 

HUNTER'S STYLE). 

bread croutons. 

\ pint Espagnole sauco (No. 33). 

mushrooms. 

Cut the partridges into joints ; each partridge should cut into six pieces. Chop 
the shallot finely. Peel the mushrooms, stew them in butter, and keep hot ; fry 
the bread croutons. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of partridge, 
and fry them for six or seven minutes until they are a nice brown ; then add the 
chopped shallot, the wine, and the Espagnole sauce. Cook for twenty minutes longer. 
When the birds are cooked sufficiently, take them up and dress on a hot dish in a 
neat pile. Remove the fat from the sauce that the partridges were cooked in^ 
season to taste, and strain it over the birds. Garnish round the partridges with 
the cooked mushrooms, arranged in groups, and the bread croutons between. Serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, September ta 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2 partridges. 
2 ozs. butter, 
salt. 



pepper. 

1 shallot. 

\ glass white wine. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 



323 



2 partridges. 
4 ozs. panada. 
2 eggs. 



butter, 
pepper, 
stoned olives. 



1,172. PAIN DE PERDREAUX AUX OLIVES (SHAPE OF PARTRIDGES 

WITH OLIVES.) 

1 pint brown sauce salt. 

(No. 6). meat-glaze. 

1 glass Madeira wine. truffles. 

Remove the flesh from the partridges, cut it up small, put into a mortar with the 
panada, add the eggs one at a time, pound well, season to taste, and rub through a 
wire sieve. Warm | gill of brown sauce, add to it a little meat-glaze and half of 
the Madeira wine, bring to the boil, and simmer for a few minutes ; add tliis to the 
partridge forcemeat. Butter a plain border-mould, chop some truffles and sprinkle 
them on the bottom and sides of the mould. Let it stand for ten minutes, then 
fill up \\'ith the forcemeat ; poach in the oven or in a steamer for about twenty 
minutes. Stone some olives and blanch them. When the partridge shape is done, 
turn it out on to a hot dish. Mix the remainder of the wine with the rest of the 
brown sauce, boil up, and simmer for ten minutes (this should be prepared while 
the partridge shape is cooking). Pour the sauce over the border, fill the centre 
with the olives, and serve. 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,173. PERDREAUX BRAISES 

ST. 

2 partridges. 6 peppercorns. 

4 ozs. bacon. J gill cream. 

1 onion. 1 carrot, 

butter. 1 bouquet garni. 

Cut the partridges into joints- 



A LA ST. CLAIR (PARTRIDGES BRAISED, 
CLAIR STYLE). 



1 teaspoonful anchovy 
essence. 

1 desertspoonful mush- 
room ketchup. 

-each bird should cut into six — slice the bacon 



^ pint stock. 

1 wineglassful port-wine. 

salt. 

flour. 



thinly, and place half of it at the bottom of a stewpan. Peel the onion, scrape the 
carrot, and cut them in slices. Put these on the bacon in the stewpan, add the 
peppercorns, bouquet garni, and the stock. Put in the pieces of partridge, cover 
with the remainder of the bacon. Put the lid on the pan, and braise for thirty 
minutes. When the birds are cooked, take them up, place on a hot dish, and keep 
warm. Strain the Hquor from the pan into a clean saucepan, take off the fat ; then 
add the port-wine, anchovy essence, ketchup, pepper, and salt. Let it cook for a 
few minutes, then add a roux made with butter and flour mixed together — just 
sufficient to make the sauce a nice consistency. Lastly, add the cream. Pour this 
sauce over the partridges, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons 



1,174. POITRINES DE PERDREAUX A LA DUCHESSE (BREASTS OF 

PARTRIDGES, DUCHESSE STYLE). 



breasts of 2 partridges. 
1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley. 



salt. 

pepper. 

truffles. 



juice of i lemon. 
8 artichoke bottoms. 
2 potatoes. 



6 ozs. butter. 
^ gill white wine, 
meat-glaze. 

Lift the breasts from the partridges, trim, and season them with salt and pepper. 
Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the breasts of partridges, and saute 
them over a sharp fire. When cooked, take up the fillets, put them on a dish. 
Drain away the butter from the pan, add the wine, reduce to half, then add two 
tablespoonfuls of meat-glaze. Stir in by degrees 2 ozs. of butter — do this gradually 
— also the juice of the lemon and the parsley. Peel the potatoes, cut them in dice, 
fry them brown in butter. Cut some truffles in the same way, and mix with the 
potatoes while frying. Heat the artichoke bottoms, season with salt and pepper, 
and fill them with the garnish of potatoes and truffles. Pour the sauce over the 



324 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOR 

breasts of partridges, garnish them with the stuffed artichoke bottoms, and 

serve. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September 1 to 

February 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

N.B.— The remainder of the partridges should be used up for other dishes — i.e., 
rissoles, croquettes, cutlets, etc. 

1,175. CRfiPINETTES DE PERDREAU. 



1 partridge. I demi-glace (No. 29). 

2 0Z3. chopped ham. pig's caul. 

1 truffle. ! 1 yolk of egg. 



salt. ' 

Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 whole egg. 



pepper, 
breadcrumbs, 
fried parsley. 



Koast the partridge, let it get cold, then remove all meat from the bones, take 
away the skin and sinews. Chop the meat of the partridge, the ham, and truffle 
finely. Put these into a small stewpan ; season with salt and pepper. Add suffi- 
cient Bechamel sauce to bind the mixture, stir over the fire until hot, then add the 
yolk of the egg. Cook a little in order to bind the preparation, then turn on to a 
plate to cool. Divide into equal parts (six or eight), make these pieces up into 
"oils, the shape of corks ; wrap each in a piece of pig's caul, fasten at the ends with 
a little wliite of egg. Beat an egg on a plate, dip in the rolls, toss in breadcrumbs, 
and fry them in very hot fat. Drain them on paper, dress on a hot dish, garnish 
wdth fried parsley, and serve. A tureen of demi-glace or any other suitable sauce 
should be sent up with the crepinettes. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required after partridge is cooked, 30 minutes. Season- 
able, September to February. Sufficient for 6 or 8 crepinettes. 

FAISAN (PHEASANT) 

1.176. CHARTREUSE DE FAISAN A LA CHASSEUR (CHARTREUSE OF 

PHEASANT, HUNTER'S STYLE). 

6 ozs. panada. 

2 eggs. 

\ gill cream. 

Remove all skin and gristle from the pheasant meat, cut it up into small pieces, 
put into a mortar, add the panada to it, and pound well together. Season well with 
salt and pepper, stir in the butter and the eggs, one at a time. Pound again until 
the mixture is quite smooth, then rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a 
basin, and add the cream, slightly whipped. Butter a plain Charlotte-mould thickly, 
decorate it with the mushrooms, nicely trimmed, and stars of truffle, chop the 
trimmings of the mushrooms and truffle finely, and stir into the forcemeat. Put 
this into the decorated mould, press it down carefully, so as not to disturb the 
decorations, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam slowly for half an 
hour or longer. When cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce 
round. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,177. FAISAN A LA BONNE FEMME (PHEASANT, GOOD-WIFE STYLE). 



I lb. raw pheasant meat. 

10 preserved mushrooms. 

\ pint Madeira sauce (No. 50). 



1 truffle. 
1 oz. butter, 
salt and pepper. 



1 pheasant. 4 Spanish onions. 1 teaspoonful 



^ lb. ham. 



chutney. 



pepper, 
salt. 



2 ozs. butter. 

Draw and truss the pheasant for boiling. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Cut 
the ham in square pieces, put it with the bird into the melted butter, and fry over 
the fire until brown all over. Slice the Spanish onions, and add them to the 
pheasant. Season with pepper and salt, stir in the chutney. Put on the lid of the 
saucepan, and place it by the side of the fire to simmer gently for about forty 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



325 



minutos. The pheasant by that time should be suflficiently cooked, and the onions 
reduced to a pulp. Dish the pheasant. Cook the onions a little longer over the 
Ihe, stirring all the time. Cook and reduce until the sauce is a nice consistency, 
season to taste, pour it over the pheasant, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,178. PATES DE FAISAN (PHEASANT PATTIES). 

1 lb. puff-pastry. | 6 preserved mushrooms. ^ gill creim. 

2 cold pheasant fillets. ' 1 slice of ham. parsley. 
1 gill supreme sauce (No. 74). salt and pepper. 1 egg. 

Prepare the pastry, roll it out thinly, fold in three, and let it stand for a few 
minutes ; then with a 2-inch cutter cut out some rounds, put them on a baking- 
sheet, and brush over with beaten egg. Take a smaller cutter, and mark the top 
of each round with it. Bake in a hot oven until done (tliis will take from fifteen 
to twenty minutes). Remove the centre-piece from each round — these wall form the 




Fig. 63. — Pates dk Faisan. 

lids — scoop out some of the soft inside. While the cases are cooking, prepare the 
filling. Cut the pheasant, ham, and mushrooms into dice, heat the sauce, add the 
cream to it, mix in the dice of cooked ingredients, season to taste, and make very 
hot. Fill the pastry-cases with this mixture, put on the lids. Dish up on a dish 
with a fancy dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost without pheasant. 2s. 6d. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable 
October to February. Sufficient for 8 or 10 patties. 



\ lb. cooked pheasant meat. 

3 OZ3. ox-tongue. 

6 preserved mushrooms. 



1.179. FRIANDINES DE 

1 truffle, 
salt. 



FAISAN AU MADERE. 



pepper. 



1 egg. 



breadcrumbs, 
fried parsley. 



h lb. puff -pastry. 
Bechamel sauce (Xo. 4) 
Madeira sauce (No. 50). 



Remove all fat and .sinew^s from the pheasant ; cut the meat, tongue, mushrooms, 
and truffle into small dice. Mix these ingredients with sufficient Bechamel sauce 
to bind, season to taste with salt and pepper. Roll out the puff-paste thinly, cut 
out some rounds with a cutter. On half the rounds place a small quantity of the 
mixture, wet the edge all round with a brush, and place another round on the top 



326 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 pheasant. 
1 onion. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 turnip. 



2 cloves. 
1 carrot. 
6 peppercorns. 
\ pint stock. 



2 ozs. cooked ham. 
mashed potatoes. 
I pint supreme sauce 
(No. 74). 



of each ; press the edges together. Beat up the egg on a plate, dip the friandines 
into it, brush them over, and toss in breadcrumbs. Fry a golden colour in very 
hot fat. Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley in the 
centre. Send to table with them some Madeira sauce separately. 

Average cost without pheasant, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October 
to February. Sufficient for 10 friandines. 

1,180. MEDAILLONS DE FAISAN A LA SUPREME (MEDALLIONS OF 

PHEASANT, SUPREME SAUCE). 

8 preserved mushrooms. 

1 oz. meat-glaze (No. 247). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 small piece of mace. 

Bone the pheasant, and then cut the fleshy parts into neat rounds. Clean the 
vegetables, cut in slices, place them at the bottom of a stewpan, add the spices 
and stock. Lay the pheasant-fillets on this, cover with buttered paper and the 
lid of the pan, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. Have ready the supreme 
sauce, add to it the meat-glaze. Let this get thoroughly hot, but not boiling. 
Cut the ham, mushrooms, and white of egg into strips, warm them up in the butter 
without discolouring them. Make a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, 
arrange the pheasant-fillets on this, overlapping each other. Fill the centre with 
the ham, mushrooms, and egg-garnish, and pour the sauce round the dish. Sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley on the garnish in the centre, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season, October to 
February. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,181. FILETS DE FAISAN, FARCIS AUX EPINARDS (PHEASANT-FILLETS 

STUFFED WITH SPINACH). 



1 pheasant. 

seasoning. 

3 lbs. spinach. 



2 ozs. butter. 

1 egg- 

1 hard-boiled egg. 



1 lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 
J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
1 tablespoonful cream. 

Bone the pheasant, as in recipe No. 1,253. Cut down the centre of the back, 
and cut out as many rounds as possible from the fleshy parts. Fry these quickly 
in 1 oz. of butter, take them up, and press until cold. Mince the rest of the pheasant 
finely, and mix with the veal when making the veal forcemeat. Well butter a 
border-mould, fill with the forcemeat, cover with buttered paper, and steam gently 
for twenty minutes. Pick and wash the spinach thoroughly, boil in salted water 
until tender ; take up, drain well, and then rub through a sieve. Melt the rest of 
the butter in a saucepan, put in one-third of the sieved spinach, season to taste, 
add the cream, and bind with the yolk of an egg. Coat one side of the pheasant- 
fillets thickly with this mixture, place a star of hard-boiled white of egg on each, 
cover with buttered paper, and place in a cool oven for ten minutes. Turn out the 
veal -border on a hot dish, dress the pheasant-fillets on it, with the rest of the spinach 
piled in the centre. Pour Espagnole sauce round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1| hours. In season, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,182. FILETS DE FAISAN A LA FINANCIERE (PHEASANT FILLETS WITH 

FINANCIERE GARNISH). 

\ gill white sauce, mashed potato. 
1 bouquet garni. 1 pint stock. 

meat-glaze. 

^ gill cream. 



1 pheasant. 

1 oz. butter. 

2 egg-yolks. 
4 ozs. bacon 



^ lb. veal. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
1 truffle. 



1 gill white wine. 
^ lb. ox-tongue. 



4 ozs. cooked ham. 

salt and pepper. 

financiere garnish (No. 223). 

1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



Bone the pheasant, cut up the veal and ham into small pieces, put into a mortar 
and pound until smooth ; then add the yolks of eggs and the white sauce, season 
with salt and pepper, and rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 327 

and add to it the slightly-whipped cream. Lay the boned pheasant out flat on a 
board \vith the skin side down, sprinkle all over with salt and pepper, then spread 
an even layer of the forcemeat over it. Cut the ox-tongue and truffle into strips, 
lay these on the forcemeat in rows. Roll up the bird, and sew the ends. Chop 
the bones and carcass of the pheasant. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
bones, and fry a little ; then add the vegetables cut up, the bacon sliced, the bouquet 
garni, the wine and stock. Put in the pheasant, cover with a buttered paper and 
the lid of the stewpan, and braise the contents gently in a moderate oven for about 
forty-five minutes or one hour, according to the size of the bird. When cooked, 
take up and drain, untie it, brush over with meat-glaze, and keep hot. Strain the 
liquor from the braise, remove the fat, and reduce to half -glaze. Add to this the 
gill of demi-glace sauce. Have ready some mashed potato mixed with a little 
cream and yolks of eggs, season it nicely, and shape a circular border with it on a 
hot dish. Put into the oven for a few minutes to brown the surface. Cut the 
pheasant-roll into slices, arrange them on the border of potato in a circular row 
overlapping each other, pour some of the sauce over and round the dish. Fill the 
centre of the border with the financiere garnish, and serve. The remainder of the 
sauce should be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1 pheasant. 

1 onion. 

6 mushrooms. 



1,183. FILETS DE FAISAN A LA MAINTENON. 

salt. 



1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

2 ozs. butter. 

a few fresh breadcrumbs. 



mashed potatoea. 
pepper. J pint Espagnole sauce 

spinach. (No. 33). 

Bone the pheasant, lay it flat on a board, skin side down. With a cutlet-cutter 
stamp out some shapes (as many as can be cut from the bird) ; season these with 
salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlet-shapes of pheasant, 
and fry them lightly on both sides. Chop the onion, the mushrooms, and the parsley. 
Put these ingredients into the saute-pan with the pheasant-cutlets when the latter 
are half-done. Cook all together, leaving the cutlets underdone. Take up the 
cutlets, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Mix a few breadcrumbs with 
the chopped ingredients (just sufficient to give a firm consistency) ; season to taste. 
Spread this mixture over the meaty side of each cutlet of pheasant, pat it on firmly 
with the blade of a knife. Place over them a piece of buttered paper, and put in 
the oven for about ten minutes (the oven must not be too hot). Have ready some 
nicely-prepared spinach ; rub through a fine sieve ; mix it with a little cream and 
butter over the fire until thoroughly hot. Shape a circular border of mashed 
potatoes on a hot dish, dress the cutlets on this, arrange the spinach in the centre 
of the border, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 6 cutlets. 

1,184. FAISAN BRAISE AUX MARRONS (BRAISED PHEASANT WITH 

CHESTNUTS). 



1 pheasant. 1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 



4 ozs. bacon. 



1 gill white wine. larding bacon 



1 lb. chestnuts. 



^ pint stock. 
2 ozs. butter. 



pepper, 
salt. 



Truss the pheasant, cut the bacon in slices, and line a stewpan with it ; add the 
bouquet garni and 1 oz. of butter broken into small pieces. When this is melted 
and hot, put in the pheasant, and fry it all over a golden colour ; then add the stock 
and wine. Cover with the Ud of the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven for 
about half an hour. The bird should be basted occasionally. In the meanwhile 
prepare the chestnuts, split them, place them on a baking-sheet, and cook in the 
oven until the shell and underskin can be removed ; then put them in a stewpan 
with sufficient stock to cover, and cook over the fire until quite soft. Rr.b through 



< 



328 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



a wire sieve. ]\lelt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, and when hot add 
the puree of chestnuts ; season with pepper and salt, and mix thoroughly until 
quite hot. Arrange this puree on a hot dish, drain and untruss the pheasant, and 
])ut it on the chestnut puree. Reduce the cooking liquor, skim off the fat, and strain 

over the bird. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes, according to size. Seasonable, 
November to January. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,185. c6tELETTES DE FAISAN a la RICHELIEU. 



1 pheasant. 
6 mushrooms. 
1 truffle. 



1 oz. butter, 
i oz. flour. 
I gill stock. 



legg. 

mashed potatoes. 

spinach or peas. 



salt and pepper. 

breadcrumbs. 

Perigueux sauce (No. 62). 

Take all the meat off the pheasant, remove skin and gristle, and chop it up 
finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until 
thick ; cook the mushrooms in a little butter, drain and chop them finely ; chop tho 
truffle. Add these to the pheasant mixture ; season to taste with salt and pepper. 




Fig. 69. — C6telettes de Faisan a la Hichelieu. 

Stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Turn out on to a plate, put into a cold 
place to set. When quite cold, divide the mixture into eight or ten equal parts ; 
shape each part into the form of a cutlet. Beat an egg on a plate, dip each cutlet 
into this, then toss in breadcrumbs ; repeat tliis process. Fry the cutlets in very 
hot fat or clarified butter. Make a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, dress 
the cutlets on it in a circular row, fill the centre with cooked green peas, and 
pour a small quantity of sauce round the base of the dish. The remainder of the 
sauce should be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,186. ESCALLOPES DE FAISAN EN CAISSES. 

1 pheasant. 2 ozs. butter. 2 gills Espagnole sauce. (No. .33). \ oz. flour. 

1 truffle. salt and pepper. 6 china or paper souffle cases. \ gill stock. 

Remove the breasts from the pheasant, cut each into slices, and cut out six 
rounds a size smaller than the souffle cases. Take away all the rest of the meat 
from the pheasant, free it from skin and sinew, put it into a mortar and pound. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 329 

Melt I oz. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, moisten with the stock, 
and boil until it is thick and leaves the sides of the stewpan. Put this panada with 
the pheasant meat in the mortar, pound well together ; then add | gill of Espagnole 
sauce, rub through a wire sieve ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and add some 
more sauce if the mixture is too stiff. Melt the remainder of the butter in a saute- 
pan, and fry the rounds cut from the breasts. Oil the cases slightly, and fill them 
three-parts full with the forcemeat ; put these into a moderate oven or in a steamer, 
and steam for ten minutes. Take up and place one of the fried rounds on the top 
of each ; these must be fried just before the forcemeat is ready, so that they are 
ready at the same time. Pour over a little of the sauce, and garnish each with a 
slice of truffle in the centre of each round. Send to table very hot. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 6 cases. 



1,187. FILETS DE FAISAN AU VERT-PRE (FILLETS OF PHEASANT WITH 

GREEN SAUCE). 

1 oz. butter. 
^ pint stock. 
1 onion. 



1 pheasant, 
meat-glaze. 
1 carrot. 



2 ozs. panada, 
piece of celery, 
bouquet garni. 



larding bacon. 

3 gills vert-pre sauce (No. 83). 

button mushrooms. 



1 egg- 
salt. 



pepper. 



Remove the fillets from the pheasant, cut each fillet into three thin slices, trim 
them neatly. Take all the rest of the meat from the pheasant, free it from skin and 
sinew, cut it up small, put into a mortar and pound well ; then add the panada, 
egg, and seasoning, mix all well together, and rub through a wire sieve. Lard one 
side of each slice of fillet with thin strips of larding bacon, trim them, turn the 
shces over, sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread with a layer of the forcemeat, and 
roll up so that the larded side is outside ; wrap each roll in a strip of buttered paper. 
If any of the forcemeat is left after the slices are coated, fill or half fill a small border- 
mould A\ith it, and steam gently. Cut the vegetables in slices, put into a stewpan 
the butter and the trimmings from the larding bacon, saute the vegetables for a 
few minutes without browning, then lay in the pheasant rolls ; add the stock and 
the bouquet garni, cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the stewpan, and braise 
for thirty minutes. When done, take up the rolls, remove the paper, and glaze 
quickly. Turn out the border of forcemeat, dish the rolls on the top, fill the centre 
with button mushrooms, and pour the sauce round. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



parsley. 

12 mushrooms. 

1 gill stock. 



salt and pepper. 

2 shallots. 

1 glass sherry. 



1,188. FAISAN SAUTfi A LA PERIGUEUX. 

1 pheasant. 1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 

2 ozs. butter. 1 pint Perigueux sauce (No. 62). 
meat-glaze. puff-paste croutons. 

Cut the pheasant into joints. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, chop the shallots ; 
put these, with the pheasant and bouquet garni, into the butter and fry. When 
the bird is a nice brown colour, take it up and put it into a stewpan containing the 
Perigueux sauce, which has been previously heated. Drain the butter from the 
Baute-pan, take out the bouquet, add the \vine, and reduce to half ; then add the 
stock and a httle glaze. Stir with a spoon so as to loosen the essence from the 
pheasant, which may have stuck to the pan ; add this to the pheasant, season with 
salt and pepper, put on the lid of the pan, and stew gently over the fire for about 
half an hour. Cook the mushi-ooms in a little butter. When the bird is done, 
dress it on a hot dish in a pile, garnish with the mushrooms and croutons, and pour 
the sauce over. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



330 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



MOUSSES 



1,189 

\ lb. phe?-sant 
1 gill cream. 



DE FAISAN A LA SUPREME (MOUSSES OF PHEASANT). 



salt. 
3 eofffs. 



pepper. 

^ gill sherry. 



1 gill stiff white sauce. 

I pint supreme sauce (No. 74). 



truffle, 
tongue. 



Pound the meat of the pheasant in a mortar with the butter and the white 
sauce, season Avith pepper and salt. When the mixture is smooth, work in the eggs 
by degrees. When well mixed, rub through a wire sieve. Put this forcemeat into 
a basin, whip the cream slightly, and stir it into the puree with the sherry. Butter 
some small dariole-moulds, fill them Avith the mixture, and steam them for twenty 
minutes. Stew the bones of the pheasant, and Avith the stock thus prepared make 
the supreme sauce. As soon as the mousses are cooked, turn them out on to a liot 
dish, decorate the top of each alternately with tongue and truffle, either chopped or 
cut out in star patterns. Pour the sauce round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February 
Sufiicient for 5 persons. 




Fig. 70. — Mousses de Faisan a la Supreme. 



1 pheasant. 

4 ozs. panada. 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 eggs. 

salt and pepper. 

2 truffles. 



2 ozs. tongue, 
artichoke bottoms, 
wliite sauce. 



1,190. BOUDINS DE FAISAN A LA STANLEY. 

1 tablespoonful salmi sauce (No. 76). 
\ lb. mushrooms. 
egg and breadcrumbs. 

Remove the meat from the pheasant, cut it up, and put it in a mortar with the 
panada and the butt ^r, pound well until the mixture is a smooth paste, then add the 
eggs and seasoning, rub through a wire sieve, place the mixture in a basin, and 
stir into it the tablespoonful of salmi sauce. Cut the truffles, tongue, and cooked 
mushrooms into small dice, mix \vith a little salmi sauce, season to taste with salt 
and pepper. With the forcemeat make some quenelles in tablespoons, placing in the 
centre of each a little of the dice mixture. As soon as these are made, poach them in 
boiling water for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take them up, drain, and let them 
get cold ; then egg-and-crumb, and fry in hot fat. Use the carcass and bones of the 
pheasant for making the salmi sauce. Slice the artichokes coarsely, heat them in butter 
over the fire, add a little wliite sauce, and make thoroughly hot. Shape a circular 
border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, dress the boudins on it, fill the centre 
with the artichokes, and pour salmi sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



331 



1,191. EPIGRAMMES DE FAISAN. 



A pint Espagnole sauco (No. .33). 
spinach or mixeJ vegetables. 



1 pheasant. breadcrumbs. | veal forcemeat 

1 egg. veloute sauce (No. 82). I (No. 201). 

Cut as many cutlet-shaped pieces as possible from the breast of the pheasant. 
Fry them quickly in a little butter, take up and press until cold, then trim them, 
and coat with tliick veloute sauce. Put aside to get perfectly cold, egg-and-bread- 
crumb them twice, and fry in clarified butter. In the meanwhile make the veal 
forcemeat, using half veal and half pheasant meat. Grease a plain border-mould 
and fill with the forcemeat, cover with buttered paper, and steam gently for thirty 
minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, fill the centre with cooked spinach or mixed 
vegetables warmed in butter, and dress the pheasant on the border, leaning against 
the vegetable. Pour Espagnole sauce round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufiicient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 71. — Epigrammes de Faisan. 



1,192. FAISAN A LA ST. GEORGE. 



1 pheasant. 

1 gill oil. 

2 shallots. 



1 bouquet garni. 
6 mushrooms. 
3 yolks of eggs. 



A gill Espagnole sauce, 
frying batter (No. 601). 
Porigueux sauce (No. 62). 



2 truffle;. salt, 
parsley. ^ lemon, 

pepper. 4 tomatoes. 

Cut the pheasant into joints. Put the oil into a stewpan. As soon as it is hot 
put in the chopped shallots, the pheasant joints, bouquet garni, chopped mush- 
rooms and truffles, parsley, pepper, and salt. Fry all together until the pheasant 
joints are half-done, then add the juice of the lemon and the sauce. Cook for five 
minutes longer, taking care not to let the pheasant burn. Remove the bouquet 
garni, lift out the pieces of pheasant, and put aside to cool. Add the yolks of the 
eggs to the sauce, stir over the fire so as to cook the eggs, but do not allow the sauce 
to boil after the yolks are added. Mask the pieces of pheasant with this sauce, and 
let them get cold. When the dish is required, dip each piece into frying batter and 
fry in very hot fat a golden brown. Dish up in a pyramid, garnish them with half- 
tomatoes that have been fried in butter, pour some sauce round the base of the 
dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4. persona. 



332 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,193. FAISAN A LA RUSSE (PHEASANT, RUSSIAN STYLE). 
1 pheasant. | milk. | fat bacon. | 1^ gills cream. 

Pluck the pheasant, truss it, and lay in a deep dish. Pour in enough milk to 
cover, and let it stand for three or four days, renewing the milk occasionally. Take 
the bird out of the dish, and lard the breast with fat bacon ; place it in a roasting- 
pan ^vith a little of the milk that it was soaked in. Roast for thirty to forty-five 
minutes, according to size. While roasting, baste \vith some of the cream at frequent 
intervals, as this gives it a nice glaze. Take up, untruss, and place on a hot dish. 
Put the rest of the cream into the cooking liquor, heat up, and pour over the bird. 
Serve very hot. 

Any kind of game can be cooked in this manner, as it makes the flesh most tender 
and delicate. 

Average cost, 4s. 9d. Time required, 30 to 45 minutes after soaking. Season- 
able, October to February. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



COQ DE BRUYERE (GROUSE) 

1,194. COQ DE BRUYERE SAUTE A LA VINCENT (GROUSE SAUTED, 

VINCENT STYLE). 



1 grouse. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 gill port-wine. 1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly. rind of \ orange 

seasoning. 



2 gills brown sauce (No. 6). pure© of chestnuts. 

Cut the grouse into four parts, season them with salt and pepper. Put the 
butter into a saute-pan, make it very hot, then put in the pieces of grouse, and saute 
them over a quick fire. When done, take them up, strain away the fat from the 
pan, add the port-wine and the red-currant jelly, reduce, and then stir in the brown 
sauce ; reduce again, and add the rind of half an orange. Put the pieces of grouse 
into this sauce, and simmer gently for ten minutes ; season to taste. Arrange a 
border of puree of chestnuts on a hot dish, place the pieces of grouse in the centre, 
pour the sauce over, and serve. 

The chestnuts are cooked, rubbed through a sieve, and the puree then heated 
over the fire in butter. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November and 
December. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,195. COQ DE BRUYERE BRAISE A L'ESPAGNOLE (BRAISED GROUSE, 

SPANISH STYLE). 



2 grouse. 
2 onions. 



2 carrots. 



6 peppercorns. | salt. I 3 gills Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

1 turnip. braised celery, j 3 gills stock. ' 1 bouquet garni. 

Truss the grouse for roasting. Peel the onions and turnip, scrape the carrot, 
and cat these vegetables in pieces. Put them in a large stewpan with the bouquet 
garni and the peppercorns, place the grouse on the vegetables, add the stock, and 
cook the birds slowly over the fire or in the oven for one hour. Baste them occa- 
sionally. Cook them in the oven for quarter of an hour longer with the lid off, so 
that they may brown. Dish them on a hot dish. Strain their cooking-liquor into 
another saucepan, remove the grease, reduce a little, season to taste, and add the 
Espagnole sauce. Bring to the boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Sur- 
round the birds with braised celery, pour over them the Espagnole sauce, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, August to Decem- 
ber. Sufficient for 6 persona 




<1> 



' ■ CO 


O 


> 


1 ^ 


i -o 


I -o 


o 


V. 




^ 


o 


rtJ 


x: 


O 



o 



~<~ <^ 




ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 333 

1,193. SALMIS OF GROUSE WITH TRUFFLES. 

1 grouse. 1 pint bro^vn sauce (No. 6). salt and peppor. 

3 or 4 truffles. croutons of fried bread. glaze. 

Roast the grouse, let it cool a little, then cut it up into eight pieces. Make the 
brown sauce with stock made from the carcass of the grouse, add to it the gravy 
from the pan that the grouse was roasted in. Put in the pieces of the bird, put on 
the lid of the saucepan, stand it by the side of the fire until the pieces of grouse 
are thoroughly hot. Melt the glaze in a small stewpan, cut the truffles in slices, 
put them into the glaze, and let them get hot. Cut the croutons of bread in tri- 
angles, and fry a golden-brown in hot fat or clarified butter. Arrange the pieces 
of grouse on a hot dish in a pyramid, strain the sauce over, garnish with the slices 
of truffles, arrange the fried croutons round the dish, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August 12 to December. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

CAILLES (QUAILS) 



1,197. CAILLES BRAISES, SAUCE CELERI (BRAISED QUAILS WITH 

CELERY SAUCE). 

salt, 
peppor. 



6 quails. I larding bacon. 
\ carrot. I ^ onion. 



1 gill stock. 
1 oz. butter. 



2 slices of fat bacon, 
ce'.e.-y sauce (No. 22). 

Draw the quails, truss, and cover the breast of each bird with a piece of lardin^r 
bacon. Tie this on with string. Cut up the carrot and onion into slices. Melt the 
butter in a ste\^Toan, put in the slices of bacon cut in pieces and the vegetables. 
Place the quails on the top of these, fry all together until a golden colour over the 
fire ; then add the stock, pepper, and salt. Cover with the lid of the pan, and put 
in the oven for about twenty minutes. When the quails are cooked, take them up, 
drain, untruss, and dress on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost of quails, Is. 2d. each. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
all the year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,198. CAILLES r6tIES, SAUCE RAISIN (ROAST QUAILS WITH 

GRAPE SAUCE). 

6 quails. 6 thin slices bacon. 2 ozs. butter. 

6 vine-leaves. 6 oval croutons of fried bread. grape sauce. 

Pluck and draw the quails, roll each quail in a vine-leaf, cover with a thin slice 
of fat bacon, tie them on with string. Put the butter in a stewpan, melt it, and 
as soon as it is hot put in the quails, cover with the lid, and cook gently, turning 
the birds every now and then. Wlien cooked, untruss, dish each quail on a fried 
crouton of bread, pour over the liquor from the pan, and send the grape sauce to 
table with them separately. 

Grape Sauce. 

J pint green, sour grapes. | \ oz. butter. 2 yolks eggs. 1 toaspoonful chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoonful lemon-juice. \ oz. flour. pinch cayenne. 2 tablespoonfuls good stock. 

Scald the grapes, and take out the stones Beat the eggs, add the lemon-juice 
to them. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, moisten with the stock, 
and boil for a few minutes. Add the eggs and lemon-juice, stir over the fire again, 
without boihng, until the eggs are cooked, then season with salt and cayenne. Mix 
in the parsley. Lastly, put in the grape-pulp, and make thoroughly hot, without 
boiling, stirring all the time. It is then ready for use. This sauce should be highly 
seasoned, and have a very sharp taste. 

Average cost, 9s. Time required, 30 minutes. Saasonable in the spring. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



334 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



salt and pepper. 
\ carrot, 
meat-glaze. 



1,199. CAILLES A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

6 quails. J lb. butter. \ pint white wine. 

1 lemon. 4 ozs. bacon. J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

i onion. J pint stock. 6 oval slices of fried bread. 

Prepare the quails as for roasting. Squeeze and strain the juice of the lemon, 
work it into the butter, add pepper and salt. ]VIix well, and then stuff the quails 
^vath it. Truss the quails, making them a good shape. Cut the bacon into nice 
pieces, put half of them at the bottom of a stewpan ; slice the onion and carrot, 
and add them to the bacon. Put the quails on the top, cover with more bacon, add 
the \yine and stock, cover with the hd, and place the pan on the fire. Let it simmer 
gently for about thirty minutes. When cooked, take up the quails, untruss them, 
and dish each quail on an oval slice of fried bread. Keep hot. Skim off the fat 
from the cooking-liquor of the quails, and strain it into the Espagnole sauce, which 
has been heated ready. Add seasoning, if necessary, and a teaspoonful of meat- 
glaze. Let it simmer gently for five minutes. Serve this sauce with the quails 
separately. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,200. COTELETTES DE CAILLES A LA SYLVIA. 



3 quails. 

2 ozs. butter. 

2 ozs. foie-gras. 

3 truffles. 



4 mushrooms. 
2 ozs. ox-tongue. 
|- lb. chicken force- 
meat (No. 202). 



^ gill Bechamel sauce 

(No. 4). 
J pint brown sauce 

(No. 6). 



salt, 
pepper, 
cooked peas, 
mashed potatoes. 

Bone the quails, leaving on the leg-joint (drum-stick). Cut each quail in half, 
shape and trim them neatly. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the quails, 
cut side down, and fry them Hghtly. When half -cooked, take them up, drain, and 
press until cold. Chop one truffle and the cooked mushrooms finely, cut the foie- 
gras in small dice. Mix these ingredients together, binding them with the Bechamel 
sauce. Season the cut side of the quails with salt and pepper, put on each a small 
portion of the above mixture. Cover over with the chicken forcemeat, shape neatly 
to the form of cutlets. Chop the remaining truffles and the cooked ox-tongue very 
finely. Dip half the quails (coated side) into the chopped truffle and the other 
half into the chopped ox-tongue, press the decoration on firmly with the blade of 
a knife. Butter a saute-pan with 1 oz. of butter, lay the cutlets in this, decorated 
side up, cover the pan, and put in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. 
Make a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, dress the quail cutlets on this, 
arranging the black and the red alternately. Fill the centre with cooked peas or 
any other suitable vegetable, put a cutlet-frill on each drum-stick, pour the brown 
sauce round, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times by changing 
the vegetable. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,201. CAILLES AU RISOTTO (QUAILS WITH RISOTTO). 



4 ozs. foie-gras. 
1 bouquet garni. 
^ pint stock. 



2 ozs. bacon. 
^ onion. 
\ carrot. 

Stuff the birds with the game force- 
Shape the birds, tie them in muslin. 



4 quails. ^ lb. game forcemeat. 

salt. I pint Madeira sauce (No. 50). 

pepper. risotto (No. 543). 

Bone the quails, leaving in the leg-bone, 
meat, which has been mixed with the foie-gras 

Slice the bacon, onion, and carrot ; place these in a. stewpan, lay the birds on the 
top, add the bones of the quails and the bouquet garni, moisten with the stock, 
season with pepper and salt. Cover the stewpan, and place on the fire or in the 
oven to cook for half an hour. In the meantime prepare sufficient risotto to fill a 
border-mould (6 ozs. of rice). Keep it hot. With the remainder of the game 
forcemeat shape some quenelles in dessertspoons, poach these for ten minutes in 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



335 



boiling water. When ready to serve, turn out the risotto-border on to a hot dish, 
take up the quails, untie them, cut each in half, and dress them in the centre of 
the border. Drain the quenelles, and arrange them on the top of the border in a 
circle, overlapping each other. Heat up the Madeira sauce, strain into it the well- 
reduced liquor from the quails, and sauce over the quenelles and the quails. Sprinklo 
over some chopped truffle, and serve. 



Game Forcemeat for Quails. 




1 oz. flour. 
1 whole egg. 


^ gill game stock. 
2 yolks of eggs. 


salt, 
pepper 



^ lb. game. 
1 oz. butter. 

]\Iince the game finely. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, 
add the stock, and boil until thick. Put this with the minced game into a mortar ; 
pound well ; add the eggs, salt, and pepper. When thoroughly mixed, rub through 
a wire sieve, and use as directed. 

Average cost of entree, 10s. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable, August to 
March. Sufficient for 8 persons. 




Fig. 72. — Cailles au Risotto. 



1,202. CAILLES EN FEUILLETAGE (QUAILS IN PASTRY). 



4 quails. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



4 ozs. chicken force- 
meat (No. 202). 
1 bouquet garni. 



2 ozs. foie-gras. ^ pint stock. salt. 

\ lb. puff-paste. 4 ozs. bacon. pepper, 

fried parsley. 1 truffle. 1 egg. 

Bone the quails, all but the legs, which should be left with the claws on. Mix 
together the chicken forcemeat and the foie-gras ; cut in small dice the chopped 
truffle and seasoning. Stuff the birds with this, shape nicely, and tie them in 
mushn. Line a stewpan with pieces of bacon, sliced carrot, and onion. Add the 
stock, the quail-bones, and the bouquet garni. Place the birds on this, cover the 
pan, and simmer gently over the fire for half an hour ; then take up the quails, and 
let them get cold. Cut each bird in half, roll out the puff-paste, stamp out some 
rounds, place a half -quail on each, roll over so that the quail is completely enclosed 
in the paste, except the foot, which should be outside. Brush over with egg, and 
bake in a hot oven until a nice brown. Place a cutlet-frill on the foot of each quail, 
dish them up neatly, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 
PT. v. 



oo 



336 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,203. BALLOTINES DE CAILLES. 



6 quails. I \ lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). 
1 truffle. I 3 gills brown sauce (No. 6). 



2 023. tongue. 
J pint stock. 



1 gill Madeira wine, 
salt and pepper. 



Bone the quails, slit down the skin of the back, and spread them out on a table. 
Sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and spread over each quail a layer of chicken 
forcemeat. Cut the tongue and truffle into fine strips, arrange these alternately 
all over the forcemeat. Roll up the quails into the shape of sausages, tie each 
ballotine up in a piece of white cloth or mushn. Put the bones of the quails into 
a stewpan, add the stock and wine, and bring to the boil. Put in the quails, and 
simmer gently for thirty to forty minutes ; then take up the ballotines, untie them, 
and arrange them on a hot dish. Skim away any fat there may be on the hquor 
the quails were cooked in, reduce, and then strain it into the brown sauce. Bring 
to the boil, and cook for a few minutes ; then pour it over the birds, and serve. 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



1,204. CAILLES AUX CERISES (QUAILS WITH CHERRIES). 



6 quails. 
^ lemon. 



\ lb. glace cherries. 
2 ozs. red-currant jelly. 



1 glass port- wine. 
1 gill veal stock. 



1 glass brandy, 
salt and pepper. 



\ orange-rind. 



2 ozs. 



butt 



or. 



Truss the quails. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the quails, 
and brown them nicely all over. Cover with the lid, and put into a moderate oven 
to finish cooking. Lift out the quails, and keep hot. Pour away the fat from the 
stewpan, add the brandy, port-wine, orange-rind, and stock. Simmer gently over 
the fire for ten minutes, then stir in the red-currant jelly. Put in the quails for a 
few minutes ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Before serving, take out 
the orange-rind and add the cherries. Dish the quails on a hot dish, pour the 
sauce over, and serve. 

][<^,B. — ^When in season, fresh cherries can be used for this dish, but in that case 
they must be cooked in boiling syrup, and allowed to cool in the syrup before they 
are added to the sauce. 

Average cost, Os. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,205. CAILLES A LA LUCULLUS (QUAILS, LUCULLUS STYLE). 



6 quails. 


1^ gills brown sauce 


1 shallot. 


pepper. 


9 chicken Uvers. 


(No. 6). 


2 truffles. 


1 oz. meat-glaze 


4 ozs. bacon. 


6 quail-cases (paper). 


salt. 


\ gill sherry. 



Draw the quails, bone them, leaving in the leg-bone. Save the livers of the 
birds. Chop the bacon finely, the shallot, the chicken, and quail livers. Put the 
bacon into a saute-pan, let it cook a little ; then add the shallot and the livers. 
Stir over the fire until cooked. Turn this mixture into a mortar, and pound well 
together. Season with pepper and salt, and moisten the mixture with a little 
brown sauce. Rub through a wire sieve. Chop the truffles finely, and add them 
to the puree. Stuff the quails with tliis preparation, shape them to look as if they 
had not been boned, butter the quail-cases, place a quail in each, and put them 
into the oven for about fifteen minutes. Break up the bones of the quails, put 
them into a stewpan, add the brown sauce (1 gill) and the meat-glaze. Let this 
simmer gently for fifteen minutes, so as to obtain the flavour from the bones, then 
add the sherry, and cook for a few minutes longer. Put a Httle of this sauce over 
each quail as soon as they are taken out of the oven. Serve in the cases. 

Average cost, 93. Tijtne required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



337 



1,206. CAILLES A LA JARDINIERE. 



6 quails. 
\ onion. 
\ carrot. 



A lb. chickori forco- 



meat (No. 202). 
1 gill Madeira wine. 



^ lb. fat bacon. 
1 gill stock. 
meat-glazo. 



salt, 
pepper. 
~ butter. 



mixeJ vegetable? — i.e., beims, 
peas, carrots, turnips, etc. 
demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 

Draw and truss the quails, cut the bacon into nice pieces, and sHce the carrot 
and onion. Put half the bacon into a stewpan, add the carrot and onion. Put the 
quails on the top, cover them with the remainder of the bacon. Add the wine, 
stock, and seasoning, cover with the lid of the pan, place over the fire, and cook 
gently for about thirty minutes. Have ready the chicken forcemeat, press it into 
a well-buttered border-mould, and steam for twenty to thirty minutes. Cut the 
carrots, turnips, and beans into dice, cook them separately in salted water. When 
done, drain, and mix them with the peas (these vegetables should be in equal 
quantities). Melt a Uttle butter in a stewpan, put in the mixed vegetables, and 
toss them in it. Turn out the border of forcemeat on to a hot dish, arrange the 
mixed vegetables in the centre, dress the quails on the top of the border, leaning 
against the vegetables, brush over the border and the quails with Uquid meat-glazo, 
pour the sauce round the base of the border, and serve. 

Average cost, 10s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 73. — Cailles a la Jardiniere. 



1 bouquet garni 
(No. 194). 



1,207. CAILLES A LA TURQUE. 

6 quails. 6 ozs. rice. 1 quart stock. pepper. 

4 ozs. butter. salt. \ gill tomato puree. 1 onion. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the quails, and fry them a golden colour. 
Take out the quails, put the rice into the butter, and fry it a Httle for two or three 
minutes with the shced onion ; season with salt and pepper. Add the bouquet garni 
and the stock by degrees. Now put back the quails, and cook altogether until the 
rice is tender and has absorbed the stock. By tliis time the quails should be cooked. 
When ready, take out the bouquet garni, add the tomato puree, mix well, and cook 
for a few minutes longer. Arrange the rice in the form of a border on a hot dish, 
untruss the quails and place them in the centre of the rice, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost, 8s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

22 — 2 



o6S 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



CANARD SAUVAGE (WILD DUCK) 

1,208. SALMI DE CANARD SAUVAGE (SALMI OF WILD DUCK). 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
1 gill port- wine. 



1 pint stock, 
rind of 1 orange, 
cayenne. 



juice of i lemon. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 wild duck. 

2 ozs. butter. 
1^ ozs. flour. 

Roast the duck until half -cooked, take it up, let it get cold, and cut up into neat 
joints. Chop the carcass of the duck, put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, 
and stew for half an hour, or until all the goodness has been extracted from the 
bones. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion and carrot, shced, fry a dark 
brown ; then stir in the flour, add 1 pint of the stock made from the bones of the 




YiG, 74. — Salmi de Canard Sauvage. • 

duck, stir until it boils ; season with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. 
Shred the rind of the orange very thinly, put it into the sauce, add the pieces of duck 
and the essence from the pan in which the bird was roasted, stew gently until the 
duck is thoroughly cooked, about half an hour. Ten minutes before serving add 
the wine and lemon-juice to the sauce. Dish up the pieces of duck in a pile on a hot 
dish, skim the sauce, freeing it from all grease, strain it over the duck, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August 1 to March 1. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,209. POITRINES DE CANARD SAUVAGE A L'ORANGE (BREASTS OF 

WILD DUCK WITH ORANGES). 



breasts of 2 wild ducks. 2 ozs. butter. 1 rind of 1 orange. 2 oranges, 

croutons of fried bread. 1 gill brown sauce 1 oz. glaze. i gill white wino. 

juice of 1 orange. (No. 6). juice of ^ lemon. seasoning. 

Raise the breasts of the ducks, take off the skin, and trim them. Melt the butter 
in a saute-pan, fry the breasts over a sharp fire, leaving them underdone. Strain 
off the butter from the pan, put in the wine, and reduce to half ; then stir in the 
brown sauce, the glaze, the juice of the orange and lemon. Parboil the rind of the 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



339 



orange, cut it into fine shreds, and add it to the sauce. Cut some sHces of bread 
intoTieart shapes, and fry them a golden brown in clarified butter. Dress the 
breasts on these croutons. Divide the oranges into sections, sldn them carefully, 
take out the seeds, and garnish round the breasts with them ; pour the sauce over, 
and serve. 

N.B. — The rest of the ducks should be made into a salmi. 

Average cost of ducks, 3s. each. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
August 1 to March 1. Sufficient for 4 persons. 




f IG. 75. — PoiTuiNEs DE Canakd Sauvage A l'Orange. 



SARCELLES (TEAL) 

1,210. SARCELLES AU VIN BLANC (TEAL WITH WHITE WINE). 
3 teal. I 1 gill white wine. | 1 gill meat-glaze. | fat bacon. 

Truss the teal, and tie a piece of fat bacon over each, place them on a spit, and 
roast for ten minutes before a clear fire. A few minutes before taking up, remove 
the bacon, so as to allow the birds to brown nicely. Put the white wine and glaze 
into a stew^an ; when hot, put in the teal and cook gently for five minutes. Take 
them up, untruss, and place on a hot dish, pour the wine and glaze round the dish, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to March 1. 
SuflBcient for 3 persons 



1,211. SARCELLES ROTIES, SAUCE ORANGE (ROAST TEAL WITH 

ORANGE SAUCE). 

3 teal. I fat bacon. | orange sauce (No. 55). 

Tru:33 the teal, tie a piece of fat bacon over each, place them in a pan, and cook 
quickly in the oven for ten to fifteen minutes, basting them frequently. Take them 
up, untruss, and place on a hot dish. Have ready the orange sauce, and pour this 
over the teal. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to 
March 1. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



340 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,212. SALMIS DE SARCELLES (SALMIS OF TEAL). 



3 teal. 
1 orange. 



1 pint of salmi sauce (No. 76). 
croutons of fried bread. 



IJ ozs. butter. 



seasonmg. 

Cut the teal into neat joints. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in tiie pieces 
of teal, and fry a golden brown. Break up the carcasses and use for making the 
salmi sauce as directed in Recipe No. 76. Strain the sauce into a saucepan, add 
the pieces of fried teal, also the rind of the orange, cut in strips, and the juice ; 
season to taste with cayenne and salt. Let this simmer gently for fifteen minutes, 
then take out the teal, dish in a pile on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish 
with croutons of fried bread and a little chopped parsley. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to 
March 1. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



PLUVIERS (PLOVERS) 

1,213. PLUVIERS, ROUS (ROAST PLOVERS). 

3 plovers. | fat bacon. | lemon. | toast. 

Truss the plovers, leaving in the entrails. Place a piece of fat bacon over each 
bird, tie it with string, place the birds on a spit, and roast quickly for fifteen minutes. 
Put three pieces of toast under the plovers while cooking, in order to absorb the 
drippings from the birds. A few minutes before they are cooked remove the bacon, 
and let them brown thoroughly. Take them up, untruss, and dress each on one of 
the pieces of toast. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to 
March 1. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,214. PLUVIERS BRAISES (BRAISED PLOVERS). 
3 plovers. I 1 small piece of ^ pint stock. 2 onions. 12 peppercorns. 



fat bacon. 1 mace. 



2 carrots. \ 2 cloves. 



watercress. 



Truss the plovers, and wrap each in a piece of fat bacon. Clean the onions and 
carrots, cut in thick slices, and lay them at the bottom of a stewpan ; add the spices 
and stock. Place the plovers on this, cover with buttered paper and the lid of the 
pan, and simmer gently for thirty minutes. At the end of that time take them up, 
remove the bacon, place them on a hot dish, and put in the oven to keep hot. Strain 
the stock from the vegetables, and boil until thick. Pour this over the birds, and 
garnish with sprigs of watercress. 

Average cost, 4s. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to 
March 1. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,215. PLUVIERS AU VIN BLANC (PLOVERS WITH WHITE WINE). 
3 plovers. | 3 ozs. butter. | J pint white stock, | 1 glass white wine. | 1 lemon. 

Clean and draw the plovers, split each in half lengthways. Melt the butter in 
a stewpan, put in the pieces of plover, and fry a golden brown. Then drain off the 
butter, and moisten with the white wine ; simmer this for a few minutes. Add the 
stock and stew gently for twenty minutes. Take up the plovers, arrange on a 
hot dish, add the juice of the lemon to the liquor, and then strain over the birds. 
Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to March 1. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



341 



PERDRIX (PTARMIGAN) 

1,216. PERDRIX BRAISES (BRAISED PTARMIGAN). 



2 ptarmigans, 
larding bacon. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 carrot. 

2 onions. 

^ pint stock. 



2 cloves. 
\ glass of white 
wine. 



6 peppercorns. 

seasoning. 

small piece of mace. 



Draw and truss the ptarmigan, cut two thin shces of larding bacon, lay one 
on the breast of each bird, fasten on firmly with string. Clean the onions and 
carrot, cut them in thick slices. Melt the butter in a saucepan large enough to take 
the birds. When melted, put in the vegetables, and stir over the fire for a few 
minutes. Add the spices, seasoning, and stock. Lay the ptarmigan on the vege- 
1 ables, cover with buttered paper and the hd of the pan, and let them braise gently 
for thirty minutes. Take them up, untruss, and arrange on a hot dish ; put into the 
oven to keep hot. Strain the braising liquor into another saucepan, remove the fat, 
and add the wine. Let this reduce to half, then pour it over the ptarmigan, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
October. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,217. QUENELLES DE PERDRIX (QUENELLES OF PTARMIGAN). 



1 ptarmigan. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. flour. 
J gill stock. 



|- pint salmi sauce (No. 76). 
mashed potatoes. 



salt, 
veal. 



legg. 
parsley. 



Remove all the flesh from the ptarmigan, taking away the skin, put through a 
fine mincing machine, then weigh it, and make up to | lb. with veal. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until it is very thick and 
leaves the sides of the pan clean. Put this panada into a mortar with the minced 
ptarmigan, season with pepper and salt, and pound well. Break in the egg and 
pound again ; rub through a fine wdre sieve. Shape this mixture into quenelles by 
means of two dessert spoons (No. 324). Put them into a buttered saute-pan, pour 
in enough water to come halfway up the quenelles, cover with a piece of buttered 
paper and the lid of the pan, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Take up the 
quenelles, dish on a bed of mashed potatoes, pour the salmi sauce over and round 
the chsh, sprinkle each \vith a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
October. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



BECASSES (WOODCOCKS) 



1,218. ROAST WOODCOCKS. 



2 woodcocks. | toast. | butter. 



lemon. 



watercress. 



gravy. 

Truss the woodcocks, but do not draw them. Cut as many shces of bread as 
there are woodcocks, and toast them a pale brown. Fasten the birds on a spit, and 
place in front of a clear fire. Put the shces of toast in the pan underneath, in order 
to catch the drippings from the birds. Roast the woodcocks for twenty to thirty 
minutes, taking care that they are rather underdone. Baste them with butter while 
cooking. Dish up each bird on a piece of the toast, place on a hot dish, garnish 
with shces of lemon and sprigs of watercress. Serve with beef -gravy separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August 
to March. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



342 . THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1 219 FILETS DE BECASSES A LA LUCULLUS (FILLETS OF WOODCOCK, 

LUCULLUS STYLE). 

3 woodcocks. I i lb. chicken forcemeat J pint of salmi sauce 2 yolks of eggs. 

stock. I (No. 202). (No. 76). 6 croutes of fried bread. 

Roast the woodcocks in the usual manner for fifteen minutes. Take them up, 
and remove the breasts. Season them with pepper and salt, and then coat on one 
side with a layer of chicken forcemeat. Put them into a pan, and cover with boiling 
stock • cook gently for five minutes. Make the salmi sauce with the carcasses of the 
woodcocks, put it into a saucepan, add 1 gill of the stock that the fillets were cooked 
in, and let it boil well for a few minutes. Then add the yolks of the eggs, and cook 
over a low fire until it thickens. It must on no account be allowed to boil or the 
sauce wall curdle. Make a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, dress the fillets 
on it with a croute of fried bread the same size and shape as the fillet between 
each. Pour the prepared sauce round, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 12s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August 1 to jMarch 1. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

BECASSINES (SNIPES) 

1,220. ROAST SNIPES. 

snipes. | bacon. | toast. | watercress. I gravy. 

Pick and truss the snipes without drawing them. Cover each with a piece of fat 
bacon, and then place them on a spit with as many small pieces of toast underneath 
as there are birds. Tliis is done in order that the drippings from the snipe may 
soak into the toast. Cook the birds for about ten minutes, removing the bacon a 
few minutes before they are done. Dish each on a piece of toast, garnish the dish 
with watercress, and serve with a sauceboat of gravy separately. 

Average cost. Is. to 2s. 6d. each. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to March. Sufficient, one for each person. 



1,221. FRIED SNIPES. 



snipes. 

egg- 



breadcrumbs, 
flour. 



pepper and salt, j croutes of fried 
watercress. I bread. 



Truss the snipes, roll them in flour which has been seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and then egg-and-breadcrumb them. Fry in hot fat for two or three minutes. 
Dish each bird on a croute of fried bread, and garnish the dish with watercress. 

Average cost. Is. to 2s. 6d. each. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, 
August 1 to March 1. Sufficient, one for each person. 

MAUVIETTES (LARKS) 

1,222. MAUVIETTES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (LARKS WITH MUSHROOMS). 

12 larks. j ^ lb. small musbrooms. 1 gill thick cream. 

2 ozs. butter. | \ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). croute of fried bread. 

Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the larks, which have been previously 
cleaned, and fry quickly for five minutes. Take them up, and put aside. Peel the 
mushrooms, remove the stalks, and then cook for a few minutes in the butter that 
the larks were fried in. Add the veloute sauce and cream, season with pepper and 
salt, cook gently until the mushrooms are tender ; then put in the larks, and stew 
for five minutes longer. Have ready a large croute of fried bread, place it in the 
centre of a hot dish, dress the larks and mushrooms on it, and pour the sauce round 
the dish. Garnish with a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season August 1 to March 1. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT) 



343 



1,223. CROUSTADES DE MAUVIETTES A L'lTALIENNE (CROUSTADES OF 

LARKS, ITALIAN STYLE). 



6 larks, 
butter. 



peas, 
glaze. 



6 oval croustades. 
truffle. 



Italian sauce 
(No. 41). 



4 ozs. foie-gras. 
1 glass white wine. 

Bone the larks ; rub the foie-gras through a wire sieve, and stuff the larks with 
it. Cut the croustades out of a stale loaf, make them large enough to hold a lark 
when the centre is scooped out. This is done with a small oval cutter. Fry the 
oroustades a golden brown in boiling fat. After the larks are stuffed, wrap each in 
a strip of buttered paper, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, pour over the 
white wine, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Baste them occasionally. 
When done, remove the papers, and put a bird in each croustade. Heat the sauce, 
add to it the Uquor from the pan in which the larks were cooked. Sauce over tho 
birds carefully, and place a nice slice of truffle that has been warmed in glaze on 
the top of each. Heat the peas in a little butter, and garnish each croustade with 
them by placing a circle of them round each lark. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to March 1. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 




Fig. 76. — Croustades de Mauviettes a l'Italienxb. 



1,224. MAUVIETTES AU GRATIN (LARKS AU GRATIN). 



12 larks. 
8 chicken 
livers. 



1 slice of fat bacon. 

2 chopped shallots. 
brown breadcrumbs. 



1 dessertspoonful chopped 

parsley. 
1 oz. button 



1 tablespoonful brown 

sauce (No. 6). 
6 mushrooms. 

Truss the larks. Chop the bacon finely, put it into a frying-pan, and cook 
until the fat comes out ; then add the chopped hvers and shallots. Season with 
pepper and salt, and stir over the fire until the Uver is cooked. Mix in the brown 
sauce, and then place a httle of this preparation in each lark. Peel and chop the 
mushrooms, add them to the rest of the liver mixture ; also the chopped parsley. 
Put a layer of this on a fireproof dish, arrange the larks on the top, and cover them 
with some more of the mushroom and liver preparation. Sprinkle over with brown 
breadcrumbs and 1 oz. of butter melted. Place the dish in the oven, and bake 
quickly for fifteen minutes. Take out, and pour a little brown sauce round. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August 1 to 
March 1. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



Ui 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



G larks. 

4 chicken livers. 

1 slice bacon. 



^ shallot. 

salt. 

pepper. 



cooked peas. 
1 truffle. 
1 oz. butter. 



1,225. PETITES TIMBALES DE MAUVIETTES A LA SUPREME (LITTLE 
TIMBALES OF LARKS, SUPREME STYLE). 

a little brown sauce (No. 6). 
J lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 
supreme sauce (No. 74). 

Bone the larks ; chop the chicken hvers, bacon, and shallot finely. Melt the 
butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, and fry a Httle ; then add the bacon and 
liver. Stir over the fire until cooked, season with pepper and salt, and moisten 
with a little bro"v\Ti sauce. Place this mixture in a mortar, and pound until smooth ; 
rub through a wire sieve. StufE the larks with this farce, wrap each bird in a strip 
of buttered paper, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and cook in a moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. Butter six small dariole-moulds, fine them with 
the veal forcemeat, place one of the cooked larks in the centre of each, cover over 
with a layer of the forcemeat, place a buttered paper over each, and steam for 
fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn out the moulds on to a hot dish, pour the 
supreme sauce over, place a slice of truffle on the top of each, arrange some cooked 
peas in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August 1 to March 1. 
Sufficient for 3 persons 



LIEVRE (HARE) 

1,226. ESCALLOPES DE LIEVRE A LA FRANCAISE. 



1 hare. 

2 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. panada. 



1 glass port- wine. 

1 teaspoonful red-currant 

jelly- 



2 eggs. 



pepper, 
salt. 



J pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
forcemeat-balls (No. 211). 
mashed potatoes. 

Remove the fillets from the back of the hare, cut these into pieces | inch thick. 
Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; put in the coUops, and fry them a nice brown. Strain 
off the butter, put in the brown sauce, the wine, and jelly. Put the collops into 
this, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Keep hot until required. Cut up the 
remainder of the hare, take the meat off the bones, remove the sinews. Cut up 
8 ozs. of the meat, put it into a mortar, and pound well. Add the panada and eggs, 
pepper and salt. Rub through a wire sieve. Make this mixture into quenelles. 
Butter a saute-pan, and make the quenelles in two dessertspoons. Dip one spoon 
in hot water, fill it with some of the mixture, shape it with a knife, getting a high, 
sharp ridge do-\vn the centre. Take the other spoon, dip it in hot water. Place 
this spoon under the quenelle, scoop it out, and place it in the saute-pan. Continue 
until the mixture is used up. Pour boiling water carefully into the pan, cover with 
buttered paper and the lid of the pan, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. 
When quite cooked, take them up, and drain on a cloth. Arrange a circle of 
mashed potatoes on a hot dish, dress the collops and quenelles on it alternately, 
overlapping each other. Take away any fat there may be on the sauce, strain it 
over the collops and quenelles. Fill the centre with the forcemeat-balls, sprinkle 
a httle chopped parsley over, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable August to March. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,227. COTELETTES DE LIEVRE A L'ALLEMANDE (CUTLETS OF HARE, 

GERMAN STYLE). 



loin of hare, 
juice of 1 lemon. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 eccf. 

salt. 

pepper. 



2 hard-boiled o:;gs. 

3 or 4 pickled gherkins, 
reforme sauce (No. 67). 



J teasjjoonful grated lemon-rind. 
I teaspoonful sweet herbs. 
1 gill breadcrumbs. 

Cut the loin into cutlets, trim them neatly. Mix the lemon-rind, sweet herbs, 
pepper, and salt together. Beat up the egg on a plate, put in the cutlets, brush 
them over with it, and toss in the prepared breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 



345 



saute-paii, put in the cutlets, and fry them. When cooked, dress them on a hot 
dish in a circlcj squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and garnish the dish with 
slices of hard-boiled eggs and gherkins. Serve separately some reforme sauce. 

N.B. — The remainder of hare should be used for other dishes. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,228. BORDURE DE LIEVRE A LA PUREE DE MARRONS (BORDER OF 

HARE WITH CHESTNUT PUREE). 



1 hare. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot, 
pepper. 



salt. 

1 egg-yolk. 

meat-glaze. 

larding bacon. 



1 teaspoonful red-currant 

jelly- 
^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

^ lb. chestnut puree. 



2 ozs. butter. 
^ gill cream. 
1 whole egg. 
4 ozs. bacon. 



bouquet garni. 
^ pint stock. 
4 ozs. panada. 
1 glass port- wine. 

Cut away the meat from the back of a hare, divide this into eight or nine fillets. 
Lard them on one side with tliin strips of larding bacon ; trim neatly. Slice the 
onion, carrot, and bacon ; line a stewpan with the bacon, add the onion and carrot ; 
place the larded fillets on this, season with pepper and salt ; add the bouquet garni, 
the stock, and the wine. Cover with a buttered paper, put on the Ud of the pan, 
and place in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Cut up the remainder of the 
hare — sufficient to make 12 ozs. — put this into a mortar, add the panada, and pound 
well ; then mix in the eggs, season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Put this 
puree into a basin, and stir in the cream, which has been slightly whipped. Butter 
a border-mould, turn the forcemeat into it, shake it down well, cover with a buttered 
paper, and steam for one hour. When cooked, turn out the border on to a hot 
dish, pile the chestnut puree in the centre, and dress the fillets on the top of the 
border. Strain the liquor from the braise, skim off the fat ; reduce ; add the brown 
sauce to it, and the red-currant jelly ; season to taste, and pour it round the base of 
the dish. Brush over the fillets with meat-glaze before sending to table. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, November to 
January. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1 hare. 


2 clovei. 


salt. 


2 ozs. flour. 


2 onions. 


i pint stock. 


pepper. 


4 ozs. bacon. 



3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
20 small glazed onions. 
20 cooked mushrooms. 
10 croutons fried bread. 



1,229. CIVET DE LIEVRE. 

3 tablespoonfuls brandy. 

1 bouquet garni. 

2 ozs. butter. 
1 glass red wine. 

Skin and clean the hare, taking care to save the blood. Free the liver from the 
gall, and put on one side. Cut up the hare into joints (it should make twelve or 
fourteen pieces). Put these joints into a basin ; season them with salt and pepper ; 
pour over the brandy, salad oil, one onion sliced, cloves, and bouquet garni. Let 
it soak in this for five or six hours. Take the pieces of hare out of the marinade, 
wipe them in a clean cloth. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, cut the bacon into 
dice, and add to the butter. Fry it brown, and then drain the bacon. In the same 
butter fry one onion sliced and the pieces of hare. Sprinkle in the flour, and fry a 
light brown. Dilute with the stock, wine, and the liquor from the marinade. Add 
the bouquet garni, cover with the lid, put the pan on the side of the fire, and cook 
gently for about one hour. Braise the onions, put them into a stewpan with some 
meat-glaze, and finish cooking. Keep hot until required. Also cook the mush- 
rooms, and keep hot. Chop the hver very finely, mix it with the blood, and add 
to the hare a quarter of an hour before it is done. Dish up the pieces of hare; 
garnish Avith the bacon, onions, mushrooms, and fried croutons. Strain the sauce 
over, and serve. Red-currant jelly should be served ■with this dish separately. 

Average co?^. 6s. Time required, 7 hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



346 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,230. MOUSSE DE LIEVRE (MOUSSE OF HARE). 



salt. 



1 lb. hare. I 1 whole egg. 4 ozs. panada. 2 egg-yolks. 

4 ozs. ham. | ^ gill cream. 3 gills Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 1 truffle. 

Take away all skin and bono from the hare, and cut up 1 lb. of the meat. Put 
this into a mortar with the panada and ham, pound to a smooth paste. Work in 
the eggs by degrees, season with salt and pepper, and rub through a wire sieve. 
Put this puree into a basin, whip the cream a little, and stir it into the forcemeat. 
If not moist enough, work in a little of the Espagnole sauce. Butter a timbale or 
charlotte mould, and fill with the mixture. Steam the mousse for forty minutes. 
When cooked, turn out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over or round, and sprinkle 
the top with chopped truffle. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,231. FILETS DE LIEVRE A LA MONTPENSIER. 

4 ozs. butter. 



1 teaspoonful 

chutney, 
lemon -juice, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 gill port- wine. 
1 oz. meat-glaze. 
J lb. mushrooms. 



1 hare. cayenne. 1 bouquet garni 
salt. pig's caul. (No. 194). 
1 egg. 1| ozs. flour. 2 teaspoonfuls red- 
parsley. 1 pint stock. currant jelly. 

Take off the fillets from the back of the hare on each side of the backbone, cut 
tliis into neat pieces, trim them, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put 2 ozs. of 
butter into a saucepan, add the herbs, parsley, 2 ozs of mushrooms chopped, one 
teaspoonful of red-currant jelly, the chutney, salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Cook 
a httle, then put in the fillets of hare, and stew very gently for fifteen minutes over 
the fire. Lift out the fillets, put them on a plate, place on each some of the mixture 
from the saucepan, wrap each fillet up in a piece of pig's caul, dip in egg, toss in 
breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat for five or six minutes. Make a forcemeat with 
the remainder of the hare, fill a buttered border-mould with it, and steam for forty 
minutes. Prepare the sauce as follows : Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, stir in 
the flour, add the stock (made from the bones of the hare), and boil up ; then stir 
in 2 ozs. of chopped mushrooms, one teaspoonful of red-currant jelly, and the port- 
wine. Simmer for twenty minutes, skim well, and pass through a fine strainer. 
Return to the saucepan, boil up, and keep hot. Turn out the border of hare on 
to a hot dish, dress the fillets on the top, fill the centre with any kind of suitable 
vegetable, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, August to ^larch. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



1 hare. 
3 eggs. 
1 onion, 
bay-leaf. 



cayenne. 
1 carrot. 



1 gill stock, 
lemon-juice, 
sprig of thyme. 
1 gill port- wine. 



1,232. CHARTREUSE DE LIEVRE. 

3 ozs. butter. 1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

2 ozs. flour. 1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly. 

4 mushrooms. 

salt and pepper. 

Take the meat off the bones of the hare, reserve one of the fillets, fry it in butter, 
and put aside for future use. Take 1 lb. of hare, cut it up into smaU pieces, put 
into a mortar, and pound well. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in 
the flour, add the stock, and boil until thick and the mixture leaves the sides of 
the stewpan clean. Let this cool, then add it to the hare in the mortar, and pouna 
until it becomes a smooth paste. Work in the eggs by degrees, and season highly 
with salt and pepper. Rub through a wire sieve, and then stir into the puree two 
tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Butter a timbale or charlotte mould, and line it 
all over with the forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre. Cut the cooked fillet 
of hare into dice, cook the mushrooms in a little butter, slice them, and add to the 
dice of hare. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten with just sufficient brown 
sauce to bind the mixture. Fill the centre of the mould with this preparation, and 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 



347 



cover over the top with a layer of the forcemeat. Put a piece of buttered paper 
on the top, and steam for one hour. Chop the bones of the hare, melt 1 oz. of butter 
in a saucepan, put in the bones, the onion and carrot sliced, bay-leaf and thyme. 
Fry until the flavour has been brought out, then add the remainder of the brown 
sauce, a httle lemon-juice, the red-currant jelly, salt, cayenne, and port-wine. 
Boil well for about ten minutes. Turn the chartreuse out on to a hot dish, and 
strain the sauce over. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fia. 77. — Chartreuse de LifevRE. 



1,233. HARICOT DE Ll£VRE (HARE HARICOT). 



1 hare. 

2 ozs. butter. 



20 mushrooms. 
12 button onions. 



salt. 1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

pepper. 1 gill claret. 

Skin and clean the hare, cut it into neat joints. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
put in the pieces of hare, and fry them a nice brown colour. Drain away the fat 
from the stewpan, and add the brown sauce. Bring to the boil, and simmer gently 
for one hour or longer. Ten minutes before serving add the wine, and cook again. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Cook the mushrooms in butter, parboil the 
onions, finish the latter in a little glaze. When the hare is done, dish it up in a 
neat pile on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish round with the mushrooms 
and button onions, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, August to March. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



CHEVREUIL (VENISON) 

1,234. COTELETTES DE CHEVREUIL GRILLES (VENISON CUTLETS, 

GRILLED). 

8 cutlets of venison. | butter. | pepper. | salt. | i lb. mushrooms. | 8 potatoes. 

Cut the cutlets, about 1 inch thick, from a well-hung neck of venison. Trim the 

cutlets, but do not remove all the fat. Season them with pepper and salt, and place 

them on a grill over a bright, clear fire. Turn them constantly while cooking, so 

as to keep in the gravy. The cutlets will take from twenty to twenty-five minutea 



348 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



to cook. Stew the mushrooms in butter, and bake the potatoes ; have the vegetables 
ready by the time the cutlets are cooked. Dish up the cutlets in a circular row on 
a very hot dish, place a small piece of butter under each, arrange the mushrooms in 
the centre of the dish, and send the potatoes up separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 to 25 minutes to grill. Seasonable : 
buck venison, June to October ; doe venison, October to December. Sufficient for 
8 persons. 



1 235 COTELETTES DE CHEVREUIL A L'ECARLATE (VENISON CUTLETS 

WITH TONGUE). 

salt, 
butter. 



8 cutlets of venison. 
1 gill salad oil. 



8 slices of cooked ox-tongue. 
\ pint poivrade sauce (No. 58). 



1 gill white wine, 
puree of celery. 

Cut the cutlets, about 1 inch thick, from a neck of venison. Trim the cutlets 
neatly in the same way as lamb or mutton cutlets. Heat the oil in a saute-pan ; put 
in the cutlets, and fry quickly. Take them up when done, drain on a cloth, and 
dry them ; dish on a very hot dish in a circle. Between each cutlet place a slice of 
tongue that has been heated in butter. Drain away the oil from the pan ; add the 
wine, and reduce to half ; then stir in the sauce, boil up, and simmer for a few 
minutes. Pour this sauce over the cutlets. Mix the puree of celery with some 
butter, and serve separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
December. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,236. COTELETTES DE CHEVREUIL A LA PUREE DE MARRONS (VENISON 

CUTLETS WITH A CHESTNUT PUREE). 



8 cutlets of venison. 
1 hard-boiled white 
of egg. 



\ lb. game forcemeat (No. 203). 
\ pint poivrade sauce (No. 58). 
p'Ut'ie of chestnuts. 



1 truffle. 


pepper 


\ gill cream. 


salt. 


butter. 


oil. 



Turn the game forcement; into a shallow cake-tin (the thickness of the force- 
meat should be ^ inch), steam for ten to fifteen minutes in a moderate oven or in 
a steamer. Heat some oil in a saute-pan ; cut the cutlets from a neck of venison, 
trim them neatly, put into the hot oil, and cook quickly on both sides. When done, 
take them up on to a cloth and dry them. Turn out the forcemeat on to a board, 
and cut it into eight pieces the shape of cutlets (this is best done with a cutlet or 
oval cutter) ; dress the venison cutlets and the shapes of forcemeat alternately on 
a hot dish in the form of a circle. Strain the oil from the saute-pan, put in the 
poivrade sauce, add the cream, and stir over the fire until very hot, but do not 
let it boil ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the cutlets. Cut 
out some crescents from the truffle and from the hard-boiled white of egg ; decorate 
the cutlets with these. Mix a little butter with the chestnuts after they are sieved, 
make very hot over the fire, and serve either separately or arranged in the centre 
of the cutlets. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, November 
and December. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2| lbs. of venison, 
sprig of thyme. 
12 peppercorns. 
12 small onions. 



1,237. CIVET DE CHEVREUIL A LA PARISIENNE. 

3 wineglassfuls red wine. 1 onion. 2 ozs. butter, 

bouquet garni (No. 194). 1 bay-leaf. IJ pints stock, 

fried bread croiitons. salt. 2 ozs. flour, 

chopped parsley. pepper. 12 mushrooms. 

Cut up the venison into square pieces ; put these into a deep dish or jar, slice 
the onion, add it to the vension, also the bay-leaf, peppercorns, thyme, a pinch of 
salt, and one glass of the wine. Let them marinade in this for six hours. Drain 
off the hquor from the pieces of venison, and dry them in a cloth. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the venison, and fry for ten minutes on a moderate fire ; then add 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 319 

the flour, stir and mix well ; then moisten with two glasses of red wine and the stock, 
stir until it boils, draw to the side of the fire, put in the bouquet garni, salt and pepper. 
Peel the twelve small onions and add them also. Simmer for about forcy minutes. 
Five minutes before serving add the mushrooms. When ready to serve, dress on a 
hot dish, remove the bouquet, skim off the fat, and pour the sauce over. Garnish 
with fried croutons round the dish. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, after marinading, 1 hour. Seasonable, 
June to December. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,238. NOISETTES DE CHEVREUIL AUX CONCOMBRES (NOISETTES OF 

VENISON WITH CUCUMBER). 



6 noisettes of venison. 
poivrade sauce (No. 58). 



1 cucumber. 
1 truffle. 



^ lb. game forcemeat 
(No. 203). 



mushroom puree. 
4 ozs. butter. 



Cut the noisettes from a neck or loin of venison in the same manner as lamb 
noisettes are cut (see Recipe 762). Trim them neatly, and fry quickly in 2 ozs. of 
butter made very hot in a saute-pan. Peel the cucumber, cut it into lengths about 
2 inches each, put into a stewpan, and parboil them m salted water. Take them 
up, and allow them to cool a little, then hollow out the centres, so as to form cases. 
Melt the remaining 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan ; put in the pieces of cucumber and 
cook them until three-parts done, then fill with raw game forcemeat, and continue 
to cook them until the forcemeat is done. Place these stuffed pieces of cucumber 
on a hot dish ; mount a noisette of venison on each ; cut the truffle in slices, and 
place one on each noisette. Strain away the fat from the paji that the noisettes 
were cooked in ; add the poivrade sauce, stir until hot, and then pour it over the 
noisettes. Serve at once very hot, with a puree of mushrooms served separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



8 cutlets of venison. 

^ pint stock. 

a few peppercorns. 



1,239. COTELETTES DE CHEVREUIL BRAISES (CUTLETS OF BRAISED 

VENISON). 

1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 1 carrot, 

meat-glaze (No. 247). 2 onions. 

^ piiit piquante sauce (No. 59). salt. 

Cut the cutlets ^ inch thick from a neck of venison. Trim them without remov- 
ing quite all the fat. Scrape the carrot, peel the onions, and cut these vegetables 
in quarters ; put them at the bottom of a stewpan, so as to form a bed ; add the 
bouquet garni, peppercorns, and salt ; dilute with the stock ; place the cutlets on 
the top of the vegetables ; cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the stewpan ; 
put on the fire, or in a moderate oven, and braise for half an hour. When done, 
take them up and brush over with Uquid meat-glaze. Dish them in a circle on a 
hot dish, overlapping each other, and send to table with them a sauce-tureen of 
piquante sauce. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
December. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,240. FILET DE CHEVREUIL A LA ST. HUBERT (FILLET OF VENISON, 

ST. HUBERT STYLE). 



2 lbs. fillet of venison. 



2 ozs. butter, 
larding bacon. 



salt I i pint stock, 
pepper. I 1 oz. flour. 



2 gills red wine. 
1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly, sliced gherkins. 

Cut the fillet into thick slices ; lard them with strips of larding bacon. Put the 
"butter into a stewpan ; put in the pieces of fillet, and fry them quickly until a nice 
l)^o^vn. Take the fillets out of the stewpan and put them on a plate ; add the flour ; 
cook it a httle in the butter, then add the stock and wine ; stir until it comes to the 
boil ; season with salt and pepper. Put the pieces of venison back into the stew- 
pan, and let them cook gently for about half an hour, or until they are tender. 



350 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



When done, dish them on a hot dish; remove all fat from the sauce, and add to it the 
red-currant jelly ; pour this over the venison fillets. Warm the slices of gherkin in 
some of the sauce, thinned down ; garnish the fillets with them, and serve at once 
very hot. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 to 45 minutes. Seasonable, June 
to December. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 lb. cold game. 
^ pint cream. 

2 whites of eggs. 



salt and pepper. 

cayenne. 

butter. 

Melt a little butter in a 



1,241. DIABLE BLANC. 

^ teaspoonful mixed mustard. 
1 tablespoonful Worcester sauce. 
1 tablespoonful Harvey sauce. 

Cut up into large dice any kind of cold cooked game. 
china souffle-mould, put in the pieces of game, and place in the oven to get hot 
through. Whip the cream lightly ; add to it the made mustard, salt, pepper, and 
cayenne, the Harvey and Worcester sauces ; mix all well together. Whip the 
whites of eggs until stiff ; stir lightly into the cream mixture. Pour this sauce over 
the game in the souffle-mould ; put it in the oven, and cook until lightly browned 
and firm. Serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost, without the game, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable^ 
August to February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,242. KROMESKIES DE GIBIER (KROMESKIES OF GAME). 



seasonmg. 
1 shallot. 
A oz. butter. 



4 ozs. of game (any 3 button mushrooms. 1 oz. ham. 

kind). frjdng batter. 1 truffle, 

slices of fat bacon. brown sauce (No. 6). fried parsley. 

Chop the game finely, the ham, truffle, and mushrooms. Chop the shallot ; 
melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the shallot, and fry until cooked, but 
without browning, then add to it the chopped ingredients ; mix all together ; 
season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with enough brown sauce to bind 
the mixture. Turn the preparation on to a plate, and let it get cold. Have ready 
some thin shces of fat bacon, about 2 to 3 inches square. Put some of the above 
mixture on each shoe of bacon ; roll into the shape of a cork ; close up the ends of 
the bacon. Cover each of the kromeskies well with frying batter ; drop them into 
boihng fat, and fry a golden colour. Drain on paper ; dish up, and garnish with 
fried parsley. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August to 
March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,243. POLISH GAME PIE. 



any kind of game. 
J lb. mushrooms. 
1 glass port- wine. 
i lb. calf's hver. 



J lb. raw ham or bacon. 

breadcrumbs. 

i lb. puff-pastry (No. 976). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



fat bacon. 1 onion. 

1 bay-leaf. 1 carrot. 

1 lemon. 1 oz butter. 

2 cloves. f oz. flour. 

Cover the game with sUces of fat bacon, and roast until half-done. Take it up^ 
and remove the meat from the bones as neatly as possible. Break up the bones of 
the game ; put into a saucepan with the onion and carrot, which have been cleaned, 
the cloves, bay-leaf, and enough water to cover. Let this stew gently for one and 
a half hours. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; mix in the flour ; add \ pint of the 
prepared stock, and stir over the fire until boiling ; season with salt and pepper. 
Strain into another saucepan ; add 6 mushrooms, finely chopped, a squeeze of 
lemon-juice, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Chop the liver and ham finely ; 
cook in a little butter for a few minutes, and then add 1 tablespoonful of bread- 
crumbs. Place a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish, on the top of it a layer of 
hard-boiled eggs and a good squeeze of lemon-juice, then a few cooked mushrooms, 
and a layer of the cooked game. Season well with pepper and salt, and repeat. 



ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT) 351 

these layers until the dish is full. Pour in 1 gill of game-stock, cover with puff- 
pastry, decorate the top with leaves in the usual way, brush over with beaten egg, 
and bake for about three-quarters of an hour. Send up to table with the prepared 
sauce separately. The glass of port is added to the sauce just before serving. 

Average cost, uncertain, depending on the kind of game used. Time required, 
2| hours. In season, August to February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,244. RUSSIAN GAME PIE. 



i lb. rice. I 2 ozs. butter. 



I lb. puff-paste (No. 
976). 



J lb. bacon, 
any kind of game. I h lb. veal. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Boil the rice, drain well, and warm up again in the butter. Season with pepper 
and salt ; place a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish, on that a layer of the veal 
aad bacon, both cooked, and cut in small pieces. Have the game half-cooked, and 
place a layer of it over the veal, etc., then the eggs, cut in slices. Repeat these 
layers until the dish is full. Pour in ^ pint of game-stock, well seasoned ; cover 
^\^th puff-pastry, decorate the top with leaves, brush over with egg, and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1| hours. In season, August to 
February. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



FT.V. 23 



CHAPTER XV 

COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 

1,245. CHAUDFROID DE VOLAILLE EN BELLE VUE. 

1 large fowl. 1 pint -white chaudfroid truffle. I aspic jelly 



3 pints stock. 



sauce (No. 124). parsley. | (No. 251) 



tarragon-leaves. 
2 or 3 tomatoes. 



Truss the fowl for boiling. Heat the white stock, and as soon as it boils put in 
the fowl, and simmer gently until tender. Take it up and let it get cold. Prepare 
the chaudfroid sauce, using for the purpose ^ pint of the stock that the fowl was 
boiled in, 1 gill of milk, and 1 gill of cream. Strain the sauce, when made, into a 
basin, and allow it to cool, then, when beginning to set, pour it over the fowl, so as 
to completely coat it. When this is set, decorate the breast with a wreath of 
leaves, cut out of truffle and tarragon leaves ; put in the centre a crown, formed of 
truffle and tarragon. Now mask the fowl all over with half -set aspic jelly. Dish 
up, and garnish round the dish with the tomatoes, cut in quarters, chopped aspic 
jelly, and fresh sprigs of parsley (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 persons. 



1,246. MEDAILLONS DE POULARDE A L'AMBASSADRICE. 

1 bouquet gami (No. 194). ^ gill stock. 1 onion. 

1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). ^ gill sherry. 1 carrot, 

white chaudfroid sauce (No. 124). 2 gills cream. 1 truffle. 

12 stuffed oUves. 1 oz. butter. 



1 large fowl or capon 
1 lb. cooked ham. 
1 hard-boiled egg. 
cooked rice for socle. 



aspic jelly. 



Bone the bird, lay it flat on a board, and cut out with an oval cutter eight or 
ten medallions from the best part of the bird ; cut up the rest of the meat, free from 
skin and sinews, put it in a mortar, and pound well ; then add the veloute sauce, 
well reduced ; mix well together ; add salt and pepper, and rub through a wire 
sieve. Mix into this farce | gill of cream. Season the medaUions, and cover 
one side of them with the farce, ^ inch thick. Shce the carrot and onion ; put the 
butter on a baking-tin, add the vegetables to it and the bouquet garni ; place the 
medallions on the top, pour on the stock and sherry, cover with a buttered paper, 
and braise in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. When done, take them up and 
let cool. Coat them with the chaudfroid sauce, and, when set, decorate each with 
a star of truffle or any other fancy pattern ; pour over them some half-set aspic jelly. 
Coat a border-mould with aspic, then decorate it with pieces of ham, white of egg, 
and truffle, all cut out in fancy patterns. Pound the ham finely, then rub it through 
a fine sieve. Whip 1| gills of cream slightly, and stir it into the ham ; add sufficient 
aspic to set the mixture. Fill the decorated border-mould with this, and let it set. 
Turn out the ham mousse on to a cold entree-dish ; arrange in the centre a round of 
shaped rice ; dress the medallions on the border, leaning against the shape of rice. On 
the top of the rice, which should be slightly hollowed out, arrange the stuffed ohves ; 
garnish round the base with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 10s. 6d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable, always. 
Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 

3.52 




-^•^ 





\. 



V 



\^- 



w 









> 

CO 

c 
w 

o 

> 

-o 

O 

«J 

_C 

O 




COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 353 

1,2*7. TIMBALE FROID A LA TOULOUSE. 

I lb. cooked chicken or rabbit. aspic jelly (No. 251). j 3 ozs. ham. 1 truffle. 

I pint whipped cream. pepper and salt. | 1 red chilli. chervil. 

Mask a timbale-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, then decorate it tastefully 
with truffle and chilli ; cut out in fancy shapes and leaves of chervil ; set these in 
■with a very thin layer of jelly. Mask over this, the whole of the inside of the mould, 
with aspic cream (using equal quantities of aspic and cream mixed). Cut up the 
chicken and ham ; remove all skin and sinew ; pound these together in a mortar ; 
season with salt and a pinch of cayenne ; rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree 
into a basin ; mix in the half-whipped cream and the trimmings of truffle, chopped. 
Put a layer of aspic over the top, and allow to set. Turn out the shape on to a round 
entree-dish, and garnish A\ith chopped aspic. 

Average cost, 6s., if made with chicken ; 4s., if made with rabbit. Time required, 
1 hour. Seasonable with chicken, always ; if rabbit, September to March. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,248. CHAUDFROID DE VOLAILLE A LA PRINCESSE. 

1 fowl. I white chaudfroid sauce (No. 124). I paprika pepper. I 6 ozs. rice, 
truffle. cockscomb. | 1^ pints water. | aspic jelly. 

Boil the fowl in the usual way, and let it get cold. Colour the chaudfroid sauce 
a pretty pink with paprika, then coat the chicken well all over — it may require two 
coatings of the sauce. Let this set, then mask it with half-set aspic jellv. Boil 
the rice in the water until tender, and until it has absorbed the water and is thick ; 
place this on the dish that the fowl is to be served on, and shape it into a low cushion. 
Set the chicken on this ; arrange a border of aspic croutons round the dish. Garnish 
the top of the chicken %vith an hatelet run through a truffle and cockscomb, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. to 6s. 6i. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,249. CHAUDFROID DE VOLAILLE (CHAUDFROID OF CHICKEN). 



aspic jelly (No. 251). I parsley, 

mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). ' lettuce. 



1 large fowl. 1 pint white chaudfroid 

truffle. sauce (No. 124). 

Truss the fowl, and then boil in the usual way. Take up, and allow it to cool. 
Cut the fowl into neat joints ; lay these on a wire icing-tray, and mask each with 
white chaudfroid sauce ; allow tins to set, and then coat them again. AVhen quite 
firm, decorate each joint with pieces of truffle cut in fancy shapes, and also with 
parsley. Melt some aspic jelly, let it get half -set, and then glaze the pieces of 
chicken with it. Repeat this several times, until a good coating is obtained. 
Clean the lettuce thoroughly ; dry well, and then cut into shreds ; moisten -with a 
little mayonnaise sauce. Place this salad in the centre of a dish, and mount the 
pieces of chicken on it, placing the best joints at the top. Garnish with chopped 
aspic jelly and a few sprigs of parsley (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



1,250. SALADE DE VOLAILLE. 



1 cooked chicken. 



capers, 
pepper. 



8 stoned olives, 
vinegar. 



oil. 
salt. 



3 or 4 lettuces. 
3 hard-boiled eggs. 6 anchovy fillets. 

Cut up the chicken, remove the skin, sinews, and bones, shape into nice pieces. 
Take one or two lettuces, after they have been carefully washed and dried, tear the 
leaves into pieces ; arrange a bed of lettuce in a salad-bowl. Upon this place the 
pieces of cold fowl ; season with pepper and salt, and oil and vinegar, mixed together 
Pile the salad up high in the dish ; decorate ^\ith the hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters, 

23—2 



354 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



the capers, stoned olives, and rolled fillets of anchovies. Wash the remaining 
lettuces, cut the hearts into quarters, and put round the dish. The decorating 
must be done according to the fancy of the maker. The salad should not be mixed 
until just before serving. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 to 8 persons. 

1,251. PETITES TIMBALES DE VOLAILLE A LA CHARTREUSE. 



\ lb. chicken (cooked). 
] oz. lean ham. 
4 preserved mushrooms. 
\ glass sherry. 



H gills tomato sauce 

"(No. 77). 
1 gill Espagnole sauce 
(No. 33). 



1 gill cream. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
mixed vegetables — i.e., peas, 
beans, carrots, turnips. 



aspic jelly. 
1 truffle, 
salt, 
pepper. 

Mask six or eight small timbale-moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly. When 
this is set, decorate them with pieces of truffle, cut out in fancy patterns, and a few 
cooked peas. Set in this decoration with a httle aspic jelly sprinkled over. Heat 
tlie tomato sauce ; add the sherry, and reduce for ten minutes ; then mix into it 
1| gills of aspic jelly, turn into a basin, and let cool ; then add the cream, and season 
to taste. Line the moulds with the sauce — this is best done by inserting a smaller 
tin, and filling round with the sauce — let it set on ice. Cut the chicken, ham, and 
mushrooms into dice ; put these into a basin ; add the Espagnole sauce, the trim- 
mings of truffle, salt, and pepper, and about 1| gills of aspic jelly. Mix all well 
together. Fill the centres of the moulds, and put them on ice to set. Prepare a 
macedoine of vegetables, equal quantities of carrots and turnips, cut out with a round 
vegetable-cutter, the same size as peas. Cook them separately in salted water, 
and mix them with an equal quantity of cooked peas and beans, the latter cut in 
dice. Season these vegetables with mayonnaise. Turn out the httle moulds on to 
a dish, arrange them in a circle, put the macedoine of vegetables in the centre, 
garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, without chicken, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

1,252. GALANTINE DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN GALANTINE). 



1 large chicken. 

1 lb. pork sausages. 

2 slices bacon. 



2 hard-boiled 



1 truffle. 



a few pistachio-nuts, 
meat-glaze (No. 247). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



pepper. 

salt. 

jiarsley. 



Bone the chicken carefully, so as not to break the skin. Then cut the skin 
down the middle of the back ; spread the chicken out on the table, cut the flesh 
away where it is tliick, and place on any part of the skin where there is not much 
meat, so as to have an even layer of chicken over the skin. Season highly with 
pepper and salt. Take half the sausages, remove the skins, and spr'^ad a thin layer 
of the meat over the galantine. Shell the eggs, cut in halves lengthways, and then 
into strips ; the truffle, bacon, and pistachio-nuts are also cut in strips. Lay these 
in rows all over the sausage-meat, first a piece of egg, then truffle, bacon, and 
pistachio-nut ; repeat tliis until the chicken is covered. Spread the remaining 
sausages very carefully on the top of these strips ; season again with pepper and salt ; 
roll the galantine up, wrap in a cloth, and tie tightly at each end wdth string. Put 
into a saucepan of boiling water or stock, and let it simmer gently for one and a half 
to two hours, according to size. Take up, tie again tightly with fresh string, and 
press in the cloth, under a light w^eight, until cold. Remove the cloth, and glaze 
with meat-glaze. Cut a thin slice off each end of the galantine ; place on a cold dish, 
garnish with a line of chopped aspic jelly down the centre of the roll and also round 
the dish. Decorate with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required for boning and boiling, 2\ hours. Seasonable 
all the year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



355 



1,253. TO BONE A FOWL. 

Singe the fowl, cut o£E the neck, pinions, and the legs at the joint. Remove the 
crop, and then \\'ith a sharj) knife cut through the wing-joint where it joins the body. 
Remove this wing-bone by stripping off the flesh \\dth a small knife. Bone the other 
wing in the same manner, then proceed to remove the flesh from the body by detach- 
ing it from the bones and turning it back from the carcass. When the leg-bonea 
are reached, disjoint them, and then continue boning as before, taking the legs olf 
with the rest of the body. After all the flesh has been removed and the carcass 
taken away, bone the legs, beginning at the thigh-bones. This is done in the 
same way as the Agings, by scraping the meat off the bones with a knife. Remove 
all the sinews in the legs, and then use as required. The bones and carcass should 
be used for maldng white stock for soups, sauces, etc. 




Ficj. 78.— Petites Crimes db Volaillb k la Jolietta 



1.254. 



PETITES CREMES DE VOLAILLE A LA JULIETTE (LITTLE CHICKEN 

CREAMS, JULIETTE STYLE). 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
^ lb. cooked chicken. 



H gills cream, 
tomatoei. 



truffle, 
lettuce. 



oil. 

vinegar. 



pepper and salt. 
^ gill white sauce. 



Line a border-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Wash the lettuce thoroughly, 
and cut into shreds ; mix with it some Uquid aspic jelly. When this begms to set, 
pour into the border-mould, and put aside in a cool place. iVIince the chicken 
finely • put into a mortar with the white sauce, and pound well ; season with pepper 
and salt ; rub through a wire sieve. Melt 1 gill of aspic jelly ; stir it into the sieved 
chicken • whip 1 giU of cream shghtly, and mix into the chicken puree. Rm.s€ 
six small chicken-moulds in cold water ; fill ^vith the chicken cream, and put aside 
to set. When firm, turn them out, and lay on a ^vire icing-tray .AIix 1 gill of aspis 
jellv with the remaining I gill of cream ; allow this to cool a l^tle, and then coat the 
Uttle chicken creams %vith it. Decorate each with pieces of truffle, cut in fancy shapes, 
and then glaze with half-set aspic jelly. Turn out the border-mould on a cold dish ; 
cut the tomatoes in slices, pour over them a httle oil and vinegar, and fill the centre- 
hollow of the border with them. The slices of tomato should be piled ratner high. 
in order that the creams may lean against them. Dish the chicken-moulds on the 



356 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



aspic border, so that they stand up against the tomato salad. Chop some aspic jelly, 
and garnish with, it between each chicken cream, and also round the base of the 
border-mould. Decorate with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 3 hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



\ lb. cooked chicken. 
1 gill cream. 
aspic jelly, 
pepper. 



3 ozs. cooked ox- 
tongue, 
salt, 
truffle. 



1,255. CREMES DE VOLAILLE A L'ECARLATE (CREAMS OF CHICKEN 

WITH TONGUE). 

I gill veloute sauce (No. 82). 
1 pint white chaudfroid sauce 

(No. 124). 
cayenne. 

Cut up the chicken and tongue into small pieces, put into a mortar, add to it 
the I gill of sauce, and pound well ; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Line some oval moulds with aspic jelly. When set, decorate 
the bottom of each with truffle, cut out in fancy patterns ; put on ice to set. Next, 
pour into each mould white chaudfroid sauce, to the depth of one-third of the 
mould ; let this set. Whip the cream sHghtly ; mix it with the puree of chicken ; 
add also about I gill of aspic jelly, which should be cold, but not set. Fill the 
moulds A\ath this preparation, and put on ice, so that they may set firmly. Turn out 
on to an entree-dish ; garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 moulds. 



1,256. 



COTELETTES DE VOLAILLE A LA PRINCESSE (CUTLETS OF CHICKEN). 

brown chaudfroid 
sauce (No. 126). 
aspic jelly, 
tomatoes. 



\ lb. cooked chicken 



salt. 

cayenne, 
truffle. 
oil. 



1 gill mixed vegetables (peas, 
beans, carrots, etc.). 

i gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 
134). 



I gill Bechamel sauce 

(No. 4). 
vinegar. 

Take | lb. of cooked chicken meat, cut it up small, put it into a mortar, and 
pound ; add the sauce and seasoning, and when thoroughly mixed and smooth, 
rub through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, and mix into it about 3 gills 
of aspic ; put this into a saute-pan to set ; let it be about \ inch thick. When 
firm, cut out with a cutlet-cutter ; lay these on a wire tray, and coat with the brown 
chaudfroid sauce. When set, decorate with truffle in a pretty way, and then mask 
with half-set aspic jelly. Line a border-mould with aspic Jelly. Mix the cooked 
vegetables with the mayonnaise and about 3 gills of aspic. Fill the border-mould 
with this as soon as the vegetable mixture begins to set. Peel the tomatoes (using 
as many as are required to fill the centre of the mould) ; cut them in quarters or 
slices, press out some of the seeds ; season them with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. 
When ready to serve, turn out the border-mould on to a round dish, dress the cutlets 
round it ; fill the centre with the tomatoes, garnish the base of the dish with chopped 
a.spic, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



1,257. MOUSSE 

1 cooked chicken. 
^ lb. cooked ham. 
seasoning. 



DE VOLAILLE A LA ROYALE. 



I pint veloute sauce i^ pint cream. 

(No. 82). aspic jelly, 

tarragon-leaves. truffle. 

Line a timbale or charlotte mould with aspic jelly. When this is set, decorate 
it with truffle, cut out in fancy patterns, and tarragon-leaves. Sprinkle a few drops 
of aspic over the decorations, in order to set them, then cover with a thin layer of 
jelly. Take the fillets off the cooked chicken and as much of the rest of the meat as 
will make \ pound. Put this into a mortar, and pound well, adding by degrees. 



COLB ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



357 



while so doing, half the sauce. Season to taste, and rub the mixture through a wnre 
sieve. Put this puree into a basin, and mix with it about 1^ gills of aspic, which 
should be cold, but just hquid when added. Whip 1 gill of cream slightly, and stir 
it into the puree. Cut up the cooked ham, pound it in the mortar, adding 1| gills 
) oi sauce to it by degrees ; rub through a wire sieve ; mir with this puree about 
1| gills of aspic, and stir in lastly 1 gill of slightly -wliipped cream. Season to taste. 
Now into the hned and decorated mould put a layer of the chicken mousse, about 
1 inch in thickness. Let it set, then put in a layer, on the top of the chicken mousse, 
of the ham mixture of the same thickness. Continue in this w^ay, alternating the 
mousses until the mould is full. Put on ice, and let it set firmly. When ready to 
serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, and turn on to an entree-dish. Garnish 
with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 




Fig. 79. — Tomates en Scbprisb. 



1,258. TOMATES EN SURPRISE. 



J pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 

J gill cream. 

i lb. cooked chicken meat. 



parsley. 

salt. 

pepper. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 

i oz. gelatine. 

1 tablespoouful white sauce. 



Melt the gelatine in 1 gill of aspic jelly ; add this to the tomato sauce, and, if 
necessary, put in a drop or two of cochineal, to give it a good colour. Rinse six 
tomato-moulds with cold water, and then hne with a layer of tliis tomato-glaze. 
Put aside, to get thoroughly set. Mince the chicken finely, put into a mortar with 
the white sauce, and pound well ; season with pepper and salt ; rub through a wire 
sieve. Put this mixture into a basin ; stir into it | gill of melted aspic jelly ; whip 
the cream shghtly, and mix into the chicken puree. When this is beginning to 
set, fill the centre of the tomato-moulds with it ; pour a little Hquid tomato-glaze 
round the bottom half of each mould, place the other half-mould on the top, and 
put aside to set. When ready, dip into warm water, take off the bottom half of 
the mould, and then the top. Dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and 
sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



358 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,259. PETITES BOMBES DE VOLAILLE A LA VICTORIA. 



aspic jelly. 

2 ozs. foie-gras. 

1 gill cream. 



truffle. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 cooked chicken. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

spinach greening. ^ pint white chaudfroid sauce 

hard-boiled white of egg. (Xo. 124). 

Colour sufficient aspic jelly to line eight little bombe-moulds \Wth spinach 
greening, making it a pretty shade of green. When this is set, decorate them taste- 
fully with truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, cut out in fancy patterns. Sprinkle 
a few drops of aspic over this in order to set the decoration. Line the moulds all 
over again with white chaudfroid sauce. Cut up the chicken, take away all skin 
and sinew, and pound it in a mortar with 1 gill of Bechamel sauce. Season to taste, 
and rub through a wire sieve. Cut the foie-gras into small dice. Mix into the 
puree of chicken about 1| gills of aspic and 1 gill of slightly-whipped cream. Fill 
the little moulds three-parts full -with this preparation. Make a hollow in the centre 
with the handle of a teaspoon ; fill A^dth a few pieces of the foie-gras dice ; cover over 
with more of the cliicken mixture ; fill up the moulds, put on ice, and let them set. 
When ready to serve, dip quickly into hot water, turn out on to an entree-dish, 
garnish "wdth chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1| to 2 hours. Seasonable, always. 
Sufficient for 8 moulds. 



1,260. DOMINOS DE VOLAILLE (DOMINOES OF CHICKEN). 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
J lb. cooked chicken, 
li gills white sauce. 

Line six domino - moulds with a 
set. Cut the truffle into slices, and 
strips. Place one strip across the 



truffles. 

J gill cream. 

J oz. gelatine. 



salt. 

pepper. 

parsley. 

thin layer of aspic jelly, and put aside to 
cut out some round dots, also six straight 
middle of each mould and the dots on 
either side of it ; this is to represent the marking of a domino. Set these in with a 
little more aspic jelly. Melt the gelatine in 1 gill of the white sauce ; let it cool a 
Httle, and then line the moulds with it very thinly. ]\Iince the chicken finely, 
put into a mortar wdth the rest of the white sauce ; pound well ; season with pepper 
and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. Melt | gill of aspic jelly, and stir into the 
sieved chicken ; whip the cream, and add also. Fill the domino-moulds with this 
mixture, and put in a cool place to set. Turn out, arrange on a dish, and garnish 
with chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

1,261. TIMBALE DE VOLAILLE AUX ASPERGES (CHICKEN TIMBALE 

WITH ASPARAGUS). 



1 large bundle asparagus. 
12 preserved mushrooms. 



gill veloute sauce 
(No. 82). 



\ oz. gelatine. 
\ gill cream. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
\ lb. cooked chicken. 

Line a plain timbale-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Cook the asparagus, 
take up, and allow to get cold. Cut off the heads of some, and lay them in a circle 
at the bottom of the mould, with the tips pointing to the centre. The bottom of 
the mould should be entirely covered with the asparagus ; set them in with a little 
liquid aspic jelly. The sides of the mould are hned in the same way. The asparagus 
must be cut just the length of the mould, and then placed with the tip downwards ; 
set these in with more aspic jelly. Cut the cooked chicken into neat pieces ; melt 
the gelatine in the veloute sauce, add the cream, chicken meat, and sliced mush- 
rooms, also any asparagus tips that may be left over. Fill the timbale-mould with 
this mixture, and then put aside to set. Turn out, and garnish round the dish with 
chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 2 hours. In season, February to July. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 359 



1,262. SUPREME DE VOLAILLE A LA REINE. 

breast of cooked chicken. I aspic jelly. 3 gills pink chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 128). 



salt, 
pepper. 



cucumber salad. I chervil. 

Cut the breast of the chicken in nice pieces ; if a large chicken, eight or ten may 
be cut. Season them, trim neatly, and coat with, the chaudfroid sauce ; decorate 
each with chervil-leaves ; mask with half -set jelly. Fill a border-mould with aspic 
jelly, and put on ice. When quite set, turn it out on to a round dish ; dress the 
fillets on it in a circle, overlapping each other ; garnish round the fillets with chopped 
aspic jelly ; fill the centre with cucumber salad ; garnish the base of the dish with 
chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



1 gill white chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 12-4). 
1 lettuce. 



1,263. PETITES TIMBALES DE VOLAILLE A LA HOLLANDAISE (LITTLE 
CHICKEN TIMBALES, HOLLANDAISE STYLE). 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

1 tablespoonful cream. a little cooked chicken, 
tarragon-leaves. G preserved mushrooms. 

Line six dariole-moulds with a very thin layer of aspic jelly ; decorate the bottom 
of each with a star made of tarragon-leaves, and set them in with a little more aspic 
jelly. 3Iix the mayonnaise sauce with | gill of aspic jelly, and line the moulds with 
it. Cut the cooked chicken into dice and the preserved mushrooms in quarters. 
Mix these with the cream and white chaudfroid sauce. Season with pepper and 
salt. Fill the centre of the moulds with this mixture, and cover the top with some 
more aspic mayonnaise. When set and ready to serve, dip the moulds in warm 
water, turn out, and dish in a circle. Place a little shredded lettuce in the middle 
of the dish, and garnish round with chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. In season al' the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,264. PETITES CREMES DE VOLAILLE (LITTLE CHICKEN CREAMS). 



1 tablespoonful white 
sauce. 



truffle, 
parsley. 



^ lb. cooked chicken, i 1 gill cream. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). | 6 small souffle-cases. 

Mince the chicken finely, put into a mortar, and pound with the white sauce. 
Season to taste with pepper and salt, and then rub through a wire sieve. Melt 
1 gill of aspic jelly, stir it into the chicken puree ; whip the cream shghtly, and mix 
into the chicken. Stir this occasionally until it begins to set. Tie a band of stiff 
paper round each soufiie-case, and when the chicken cream begins to set, pour it 
into the cases, so that it comes about 1 inch above them. Let this get quite set, 
then decorate each with a star of truffle, and cover with a layer of aspic jelly. When 
ready to serve, remove the paper band very carefully, and place the souffle-cases 
on a cold dish. Garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,265. MAYONNAISE DE VOLAILLE A LA PRINCESSE (MAYONNAISE OF 

CHICKEN, PRINCESS STYLE). 

aspic jelly (No. 251). truffles. chervil. 

^ pint mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). tarragon. 1 lettuce. 

Line a large beehive-shaped mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly (if this shaped 
mould is not obtainable, a plain timbale-mould would be suitable). Decorate the 
mould all over with truffle cut in fancy shapes, and tarragon and chervil leaves. 



1 cooked chicken. 
J gill ceam. 



360 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Set these in with a httle more aspic jelly. Mix the mayonnaise sauce with an equal 
quantity of aspic jelly, and line the mould all over with a thin layer of this. Take 
the meat from the chicken, cut it into neat pieces ; wash and dry the lettuce, break 
into small shreds, mix vnih the chicken-meat. Season well with pepper and salt, 
moisten with the cream and the rest of the mayonnaise aspic. Stir this occasionally, 
until it begins to set, then pour into the prepared mould and put into a cool place to 
set. Turn out on a cold dish, garnish round wdth chopped aspic and a few leaves of 
lettuce. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 2 hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 



1,266. MAYONNAISE DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN MAYONNAISE). 

1 cooked chicken, 
aspic jell.y (No. 251). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Cut the chicken into neat joints. IVIix 1 gill of liquid aspic jelly with the mayon- 
naise sauce, and when beginning to set, coat the chicken joints with it, giving them 



^ pint mayonnaise 
sauce (No. 134). 
2 tomatoes. 



1 large cos lettuce, or 2 

round ones, 
truffles. 




Fig. 80. — Mayonnaise de Volaille. 

several layers until a good covering is obtained. Decorate them with truffle, cut 
in fancy patterns or chopped. Glaze each with half-set aspic jelly, taking care not 
to disturb the under layer. Wash and dry the lettuce, break into small pieces, and 
place some in the centre of a dish ; dress the chicken on this, piling it as high as 
possible. Make a wreath of the lettuce all round the dish, garnish with a httle 
chopped aspic, the tomatoes, and hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



1,267. MOUSSE DE VOLAILLE FROIDE (COLD MOUSSE OF CHICKEN). 



J lb. cold chicken meat, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



2 leaves gelatine, 
truffle. 



^ gill veloute sauce 1 gill cream. 

(No. 82). salt. 

Chit up the cold chicken into small pieces, put it into a mortar, add the sauce to 
it, and pound well together ; season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Lir.e a 
plain charlotte-moula with aspic jelly. Tliis is best done in the following manner : 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



361 



Pour some aspic jelly into the bottom of the mould ; this layer should be about 
\ inch in depth. When this is set, decorate the bottom of the mould with shapes of 
truffle, cut out in a fancy pattern. When this is done, sprinkle over the decoration 
with a few drops of jelly, in order to set it. When firm, put in a httle more jelly, 
so that the decoration is well covered. Let this set ; then insert a tin, a size smaller 
than the first ; put a weight into this tin, or fill it with ice, in order to keep it in place ; 
then fill round between the two tins with liquid aspic jelly ; put on ice to set. As 
soon as the jelly is set firmly round the sides, take the weight or ice out of the inner 
tin, and pour into it some hot water, to loosen it, and remove quickly. Melt the 
gelatine in 1 gill of aspic jelly. Mix this into the sieved chicken ; whip the cream 
slightly, and stir it into the chicken. Mix all together, and as soon as it begins to 
set, place in the lined and decorated mould. Put on ice, and let it set thoroughlv. 
When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water — this must be done quickly — and 
turn it on to a silver entree-dish ; garnish round with chopped aspic, the heart of a 
lettuce, or some sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, l\ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 




Fig. 81. — Darioles db Volaille bn Aspic. 



1,268. DARIOLES DE VOLAILLE EN ASPIC (DARIOLES OF CHICKEN IN 

ASPIC). 



breast of cooked chicken. 



truffle. 



tarragon. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). | parsley. 

Melt some aspic jelly ; set a little at the bottom of six dariole-moulds. When 
firm, decorate each with pieces of truffle, cut in fancy patterns, and with fresh 
tarragon-leaves. Set these in with a little more aspic jelly. Cut the chicken into 
, neat shces, arrange them in the dariole-moulds, placing two or three pieces in each. 
They must be placed in an upright position, or they do not show through the jelly. 
Fill up the moulds with liquid aspic jelly, taking care that the pieces of chicken do 
not float. Put the moulds aside to set in a cool place. When ready to serve, dip 
each mould in warm water, and turn out on a cold dish ; arrange in a circle ; decorate 
with chopped aspic jelly and a few sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost. 3s. Time required. 1 hour. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 



362 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2 large chicken fillets. 
4 ozs. cooked ox-tongue, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 
2 hard-boiled e2;gs. 



1,269. ASPIC DE VOLAILLE A 

French beans, 
anchovy fillets, 
chopped parsley, 
tarragon 



L'lTALIENNE. 

truffles. 



mayonnaise sauce 

(No. 134). 
remoulade sauce 

(No. 140) 



carrots, 
turnips, 
potatoes. 



salt, 
peas, 
capers, 
chervil. 



Line the bottom of a border-mould with aspic jelly. When this is set, decorate 
with truffle and one hard-boiled egg ; set in tliis decoration with a few drops of aspic 
jelly sprinkled on them, then cover with a layer of aspic jelly ; let this set on ice. 
Cut the cooked fillets of chicken and the ox-tongue in juhenne strips, not cut too 
thinly, spread a layer of the chicken in the mould, pour in enough jelly to set it, 
then, when set, arrange a layer of tongue, then jelly again. Chop coarsely the 
remains of the truffles and the egg that were used for the decoration ; sprinkle this 
in the mould, set with aspic, then chicken again, and continue with these layers 




Fig. 82. — Aspic de Volaille a l'Italienne. 

until the mould is full. Put away on ice to set. Take equal quantities of cooked 
dice of carrots, turnips, French beans, and potatoes ; mix them in a basin with the 
peas, a few capers, some anchovy fillets, cut in dice, and a small quantity of chopped 
parsley, tarragon, and chervil ; season to taste, and add sufficient mayonnaise sauce 
to bind and season. When the mould of chicken, etc., is set, turn it out on to a 
cold dish, arrange the salad in the centre, decorate round the base of the dish witli 
chopped aspic jelly, and garnish round the salad in the centre with small slices of 
hard-boiled egg. Serve with this dish some remoulade sauce separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 



1,270. ESCALLOPES DE VOLAILLE A LA JEANNETTE. 

1 fowl. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 



chervil-leaves. 
1 gill cream. 



salt. 
pepper. 



J pint white chaudfroid 
sauce (No. 124). 

Truss the fowl for boiling, put it into a saucepan of boiling water or stock, and 
cook until done (this depends on the size of the fowl). Take it up when cooked, 
drain, and let it cool ; then remove the ffllets of the breast carefully ; cut each into 
four, and trim them to oval shapes. Coat these ovals of chicken, after seasoning 
them with salt and pepper, with the white chaudfroid sauce. When this is set, 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 363 

decorate each with leaves of chervil, then coat them with a layer of half-set aspic 
jelly. Take all the meat from the remainder of the chicken, remove skin and 
sinews ; chop it small ; put into a mortar with | gill of the chaudfroid sauce, and 
pound well ; season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Place this puree in a 
basin, mix in sufficient aspic to make it set, whip the cream slightly, and mix in 
lightly. Turn this mixture into a flat tin (it should be | inch thick) ; let it set. 
Cut out this mousse, when set, with an oval cutter, the same size as the collops of 
cliicken ; place a cliicken collop on the top of each oval of mousse ; pour over some 
aspic jelly, so as to fix the two together. Dish on a silver dish in the form of a star ; 
garnish the dish with chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

1,271. CHAUDFROID DE PIGEONS A LA BOHEMIENNE (CHAUDFROID OF 

PIGEONS, BOHEMIAN STYLE). 



4 pigeons. 

2 ozs. foie-gras. 

truffles. 



aspic jelly (No. 

251). 
salad. 



^ lb. cbicken forcemeat 



(No. 202). 
stock. 



2 ozs. cooked ox-tongue. 
^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
1 white of hard-boiled egg. 

Bone the pigeons ; cut up the foie-gras and ox-tongue into small dice ; mix them 
into the forcemeat. Stuff the pigeons with this mixture ; wTap each bird in muslin, 
tie them at each end with string, giving them a rounded appearance ; put the 
carcasses of the birds into a stewpan, put in the rolls, add sufficient stock to cook 
them ; bring to the boil, then simmer gently for twenty-five to thirty minutes. 
Take them up, and press lightly until cold. Strain the stock in the pan, take off the 
fat, and reduce it to ^ gill ; add the brown sauce ; boil for five minutes, then mis 
in 1^ gills of aspic jelly ; reduce again, then strain, and let it get cold. Take the 
pigeons out of the cloths, cut them in halves, take off the skin, and trim them 
nicely. Coat the pigeons with the above sauce. When set, decorate with truffle 
and white of egg ; glaze with half-set aspic jelly. Arrange in the centre of a dish a 
nicely prepared salad ; dress the pigeons on this, and garnish with chopped aspic 

jelly- 
Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1,272. CHAUDFROID DE CANETON A L'ORANGE (CHAUDFROID OF 

DUCKLING, ORANGE FLAVOUR). 



2 ducklings, 
truffles. 



^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
^ gill aspic jelly (No. 251). 



^ gill veal stock. I juice of 1 orange and rind. 
^ gill cura9oa. | hard-boiled white of egg. 



Roast the ducklings, let them get cold, then cut them up into neat joints ; take 
away the skin, and trim neatly. Warm the brown sauce in a stewpan ; add the 
stock and the aspic jelly, and reduce to | pint ; then add the cura9oa and the juice 
of the orange. Parboil the rind of the orange, and shred it finely ; add this also to 
the sauce. Turn into a basin, and let it get nearly cold. Coat the joints of ducklings 
with this sauce. When the sauce is set, decorate the pieces of duckling tastefully 
wdth slices of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, cut out with a fancy cutter. Mask 
each piece \vith half-set aspic jelly. Dress the joints tastefully on a dish in a 
pyramid, garnish with chopped aspic and any kind of small salad, and serve. 

Average cost, without ducklings, Is. 3d. ; duckhngs, 5s. 6d. to 10s. Gd. each. 
Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, March to August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,273. TIMBALE DE CANETON CHAUDFROID. 

1 duckling. | brown chaudfroid sauce (No. 126). | aspic jelly (No. 251). I truffles. 

Koast the duckling, but let it be underdone ; let it get cold, then remove the 

fillets. With the carcass of the duck prepare the stock for making the brown 

chaudfroid sauce ; after the sauce is made, let it cool. Cut the fillets into sHces. 



364 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

coat with the chaudfroid sauce, and let them set. Pour into a timbale-mould a very 
thin layer of aspic. When this is set, put in some of the sauce, about \ inch in 
thickness ; let it set, then put over the sauce, a layer of the coated shces ; place a 
piece of truflfle on each slice, and cover with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Continue 
these respective layers until the mould is nearly full, then on the top put a layer 
of aspic rather thicker than the others ; place on ice, and let it set. To serve, dip 
the mould quickly into hot water, turn on to a cold dish, and garnish round the base 
with chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. to 10s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, March to 
August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,274. CANETON GLACE AUX CERISES (GLAZED DUCKLING WITH 

CHERRIES). 



2 ducklings. 
1 gill cream. 
4 ozs. foie-gras. 



truffles, 
aspic jelly, 
salt. 



claret. 

pepper. 

cherries. 



brown chaudfroid sauce 

(No. 126). 
2 raw whites of eggs. 

Roast one of the ducklings, keeping it underdone. Let it get cold ; lift the fillets 
from the breast, and take away the breast-bone and the bones as far down as the 
wings and legs. Leave these intact, so that the carcass forms a case. Cut eight 
thin slices from each fillet, mask these with the chaudfroid sauce, and decorate 
tastefully with truffles. Take half the meat from the other raw duckling, free it 
from skin and gristle, and cut it up ; put it into a mortar with the foie-gras and the 
ducklings' fivers, and pound all well together ; add the two raw whites of eggs, salt, 
and pepper, mix thoroughly, then rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Whip 
the cream slightly ; stir it into the puree. Fill the carcass of the prepared duckling 
with this mousse, and shape it so that the bird looks as if it had been left whole. 
Place in a steAvpan, cover with buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven for 
twenty minutes. Let it cool. Coat with half-set aspic jelly, and let set. When 
the mousse is quite firm, lay on it the decorated fillets. Stone the cherries, poach 
them in claret, let them get cold. Dish the duckling in a deep silver dish ; sur- 
round with the cherries ; pour aspic jelly over these, and, when set, the dish is ready 
to serve. 

Average cost of ducklings, 5s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. each ; cost of other ingredients, 
4s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, March to August. Sufficient for 
8 or 9 persons. 

1.275. DARIOLES DE FOIE-GRAS. 

1 large terrine of foie-gras. | aspic jelly (No. 251). | truffle. | chervil-leaves. 

Line some small dariole-moulds, either fluted or plain, with aspic jelly. When 
this is set, decorate the bottom of each with trufiies, cut out in fancy patterns, and 
chervil-leaves ; sprinkle a few drops of aspic over the decorations, in order to set 
them ; this must be done carefully. Turn out the foie-gras, remove the fat, and cut 
into nice pieces ; divide these, so as to have an equal number for each dariole ; put 
them into the respective moulds, fill up with aspic, and put on ice to set. When 
about to serve, dip quickly into hot water, turn on to a dish, garnish with chopped 
aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 8 or 10 moulds. 

1.276. DOMINOS DE FOIE-GRAS. 

foie-gras. | aspic jelly. | truffles. | white chaudfroid sauce (No. 124). 

Put a thin layer of aspic jelly at the bottom of some small domino-moulds. 
When this is set, decorate them with dots of truffle to represent dominos ; sprinkle 
over a few drops of aspic, in order to set the decoration. Line the moulds all over 
with the sauce. E-ub the foie-gras through a sieve, mix with it some of the chaud- 






vf> ,^':^^ 




c 

-o 

c 



c 
w 

c 

I/) 



../^"^ 




r 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 365 

froid sauce and a little aspic jelly, and fill up the moulds with this mixture. Put 
on ice to set. Turn out, and dish on a bed of lettuce. G-arnish with chopped aspic, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 dominoes. 

1,277. MEDAILLONS DE FOIE-GRAS (MEDALLIONS OF FOIE-GRAS). 



ox-tongue. 



truffle. I white chaudfroid sauce 
salad. I (No. 124). 



small terrine of foie-gras. 
aspic jelly. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Cut some shces of tongue in rounds, \ inch thick and 1| inches across. Rub 
the foie-gras through a sieve ; mix this puree with the cream (all fat must be removed 
from the foie-gras before sieving). Spread a layer of this puree on the slices of ox- 
tongue, smooth the surface, and coat with the chaudfroid sauce ; let them set, 
then decorate the medallions with truffle, cut out in fancy patterns ; mask with 
half-set aspic, and let them set. Dish up on a bed of green salad ; garnish with 
chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s, Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 medallions. 

1,278. GALANTINE DE FAISAN (GALANTINE OF PHEASANT). 



1 pheasant. 

J lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
meat-glaze (No. 247). 



truffles, 
ox-tongue. 

Bone the pheasant carefully, so as not to break the skin (No. 1,253). Cut through 
the skin and flesh down the back of the bird ; lay it out flat on the table, and pull 
the skin into a square shape. Season with pepper and salt. Have ready the veal 
forcemeat ; spread a thin layer of it all over ; season again with pepper and salt. 
Cut the tongue and truffle into strips ; lay these alternately, in rows, over the force- 
meat, and then spread another layer of veal forcemeat on the top. Roll the galan- 
tine up, tie tightly in a cloth, place in a pan of boihng water, and let it simmer 
gently for one hour to one and a half hours, according to size. Take up the galan- 
tine, and press lightly in the cloth until cold. Remove the cloth, glaze over with 
meat-glaze ; cut a small slice off each end of the roll, and then place on a dish. 
Garnish with a line of chopped aspic jelly down the centre of the galantine, and also 
round the dish. Decorate with parsley or small salad. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 4 hours. In season, October 1 to Feb- 
ruary 1. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,279. MANDARINES DE FAISAN. 

9 mandarin oranges. | meat-glaze (No. 247). | 1 pheasant. | aspic jelly. [ 1 gill cream. | parsley. 

Roast the pheasant in the usual way, and put aside to cool. Then cut eight 
small rounds from the breast, remove the rest of the meat, and mince finely. Put 
into a mortar and pound well ; season \vith pepper and salt, and rub through a fine 
sieve, adding a little white sauce, if necessary. Melt 1 gill of aspic jelly, stir it 
into the sieved pheasant ; whip the cream slightly, and add also. Cut off about 
one-third from the top of eight of the oranges, remove the centre without breaking 
the peel ; ffll the skins mth the pheasant-cream, and put aside to set. Glaze the 
eight rounds of pheasant with meat-glaze, giving them several coatings until a good 
covering is obtained. Peel the remaining orange, break into the natural divisions, 
remove the pips, and then place in a cool oven to dry a little. Wlien cold, coat 
each thickly with half -set aspic jelly ; arrange three or four of these round the top 
of the orange-skins, and in the centre of them place one of the glazed rounds of 
pheasant. Place the oranges on a dish, garnish round with chopped aspic and a 
few sprigs of parsley (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 3 hours. In season, November to February I. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



366 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,280. CHAUDFROID DE FAISAN (CHAUDFROID OF PHEASANT). 



1 roast pheasant, 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 pint of brown cliaudfroid 
sauce (No. 126). 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



1 lettuce, 
watercress. 



Cut the pheasant into neat joints ; place them on a wire icing-tray, and coat 
with a thick layer of brown chaudfroid sauce. When set, decorate each joint with 
hard-boiled white of egg, cut in fancy shapes, and the sieved yolk. Have ready 
some half-set aspic jelly ; glaze them over with this, taking care not to disturb the 
decorations. Wash and dry the lettuce, break into small pieces, and mix with a 
httle mayonnaise. Place this in the centre of a dish, and pile the chaudfroid on 
the top, keeping the best pieces for the top. Garnish with groups of watercress, 
the heart of the lettuce, and a little chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. In season, October 1 to February 1 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



2 pheasants. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



1,281. FILETS DE FAISAN EN CHAUDFROID. 

J pint brown chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 126). 
1 hard-boiled egg. 



I gill water or stock, 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 small egg. 
1 lettuce, 
pepper and salt. 



Remove the breasts from the pheasants, and cut into neat pieces. Mince the 
rest of the pheasant meat finely, and put it into a mortar ; melt the butter in a 
saucepan, mix in the flour, add the water, and stir over the fire until very thick. 
Put this mixture into the mortar with the pheasant ; season with pepper and salt ; 
add the egg, and pound well ; rub through a wire sieve. Braise the fillets of pheasant 
over vegetables and stock for 15 minutes ; take them up, press until cold, then trim 
neatly, and coat on one side with the puree of pheasant ; place them on a buttered 
tin, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Take them 
up, and put aside to get cold, then coat them with brown chaudfroid sauce. Decorate 
each fillet with white of egg, cut in fancy patterns ; glaze over with half -set aspic 
jelly. Wash, dry, and break up the lettuce in small pieces, mix with a little mayon- 
naise sauce, place this in the centre of a dish, and arrange the fillets round. Garnish 
with chopped aspic jelly. 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. In season, October 1 to Feb- 
ruary 1. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



1,282. CHAUDFROID DE FAISAN EN ASPIC (PHEASANT IN ASPIC). 

1 pheasant. | aspic jelly. | 1 hard-boiled egg. | mayonnaise sauce. | lettuces. | chervil. 

Truss the pheasant, place it on a baking-tin, cover with buttered paper, and 
roast it, without allowing it to brown. When done, take it up, and let it get cold. 
Cut up into nice pieces ; take the best parts — that is, the fillets — and cut them into 
thin sHces ; trim these, and divide them into suitable sizes. Line a border-mould 
with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; when this is set, decorate it tastefully with hard- 
boiled white of egg, cut out in fancy patterns, and with chervil-leaves ; sprinkle 
over the decoration a few drops of aspic ; when set, pour in some more jelly, ^ inch 
in depth. On this arrange a layer of the pieces of pheasant, then add more jelly. 
Continue in this way with layers of pheasant and jelly until the mould is full ; the 
last layer must be jelly. Put on the ice to set. When firm, turn out on to a cold 
dish ; fill the centre with a nicely prepared salad of lettuces, seasoned with mayon- 
naise. Put the yolk of the egg through a wire sieve ; sprinkle this over the top of 
the salad. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, October to March. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



367 



1,283. PETITES CREMES DE FAISAN (LITTLE PHEASANT CREAMS). 



10 ozs. cooked pheasant 
meat. 



1 gill ereara. 
\ oz. gelatine. 



h pint vcloute sauce (No. 82). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 truffle, 
seasoning. 



Coat some small timbale-moulds with aspic jelly ; decorate them with truffle, 
cut out in fancy patterns ; sprinkle over a few drops of aspic jelly to set the decora- 
tions. Cut up the meat in small pieces, remove skin and sinews ; put the sauce 
into a saucepan, bring to the boil ; put in the gelatine, and melt it ; put the pheasant 
meat into a mortar, pound until smooth, then add the sauce ; mix well ; season 
to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. WT^iip the cream lightly, and stir into the 
sieved mixture. Fill the decorated moulds with the preparation ; put them on the 
ice to set. When ready to serve, dip them one by one quickly into hot water, and 
turn them out 04i to a cold entree-dish. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic jelly 
and sprigs of fresh parsley or small cress, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October 1 to Feb- 
ruary 1. Sufficient for 8 or 10 timbales. 




Fig. 83. — Celestines de Perdreau. 



1,284. CELESTINES DE PERDREAU. 

1 cooked partridge. I \\ pints bro\\Ti chaudfroid I aspic jelly. I 2 truffles. 

3 chicken livers. | sauce (No. 126). | 1 hard-boiled white of egg. | salt and pepper. 

Remove the meat from the partridge, take away all skin and gristle ; cut the 
meat up small, add to it one minced truffle and the chopped cooked livers. Put 
these ingredients into a mortar, and pound all well together ; rub through a wire 
sieve. Put this puree into a basin ; season with salt and pepper, and stir into it 
about \ pint of warm chaudfroid sauce (this should be made from game stock). 
Stir this mixture on ice until cold, then turn it into a flat tin ; flatten it, and have it 
\ inch thick. "S^Tien set and firm, turn out the shape, and cut it into rounds or 
ovals with a cutter, about 2 inches across. Place these shapes on a wire tray ; 
coat them neatly with the chaudfroid sauce ; decorate them tastefully Mnth truffle 
and white of hard-boiled egg, cut out in fancy patterns. Coat with half-set aspic 
jelly. Set a layer of jelly in a deep entree-dish ; dress the celestines on this in a 
circle, fill the centre with chopped aspic, garnish round with jelly croutons, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 58. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September 1 to 
February 1. Sufficient for 6 or 8 celestines. 

PT. V. 24 



368 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,285. BORDURE DE CAILLES EN ASPIC (BORDER OF QUAILS IN ASPIC). 



4 quails. 

8 chicken livers. 

1 siiallot. 



1 teaspoonful of chopped carrot. 
1 tablespoonful of brown sauce 
(No. 6). 



tomatoes. 



on. 
vinegar. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
1 slice of fat bacon, 
parsley or watercress. 

Bone the quails, taking care not to break the skins. Chop the bacon, antl fry 
in a pan ; add the chopped shallot, carrot, and livers ; cook over the fire ; season 
with pepper and salt, and moisten with the brown sauce. Put this mixture into a 
mortar, pound well, rub through a sieve, and then fill the quails with it. Roll each 
bird in muslin, tie at each end, and cook in boiling water for twenty minutes. Take 
up, and let them cool ; cut each in half lengthways. Set a little aspic jelly at the 
bottom of a border-mould, then place in the halves of quails, with the cut sides 
towards the centre of the mould ; fill up with aspic jelly, and put aside to set. Turn 
out on a dish ; cut the tomatoes in slices ; season them with oil and vinegar, and 
dress them in the centre of the border, piling them rather high. Garnish round the 
dish with chopped aspic jelly and sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 84. — Chaudfroid db Cailles 1 l'Acrorb. 



1,286. CHAUDFROID DE CAILLES A L'AURORE (CHAUDFROID OF QUAILS, 

AURORA STYLE). 



4 quails. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 

1^ pints white stock. 



mayonnaise sauce 

(No. 134). 
4 ozs. rice. 



truffle. 

lettuce. 

parsley. 



pat6 de foie-gras, or stuffing as 
for previous recipe (No. 1,285). 
1 pint pink chaudfroid sauce. 

Bone the quails in the usual way, leaving in the drum-sticks and claws ; fill with 
fiver stuffing or foie-gras which has been rubbed through a wire sieve. Wrap each 
bird in a piece of muslin, tie at the ends, and cook gently in boiling stock for twenty 
minutes. Take them up, press hghtly in the cloth until cold. Line eight quenelle- 
moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; decorate with truffle, cut in fancy shapes ; 
set these in with a little more liquid aspic jelly. Coat the moulds over again with 
a thin layer of pink chaudfroid sauce. Cut the quails in halves lengthways, and 
lay one in each mould, with the leg coming over the edge of the mould. Fill round 
with some more of the sauce, and put aside to set. Cook the rice in 1| pints of 
boihng stock until quite thick ; season with pepper and salt, and then fill up a 
border-mould with it ; put aside to cool. Turn out on a cold dish, fill the centre 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



369 



with the lettuce, washed, dried, and cut in shreds, and mixed with a Httle mayon- 
naise sauce. Dip the quenelle-moulds in warm water ; turn out, and dish on the 
rice-border against the salad, with the claws meeting in the centre. Chop soma 
aspic jelly, place a little between each mould, and also round the dish. Garnish with 
a few sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 7s. 6d., if foie-gras is used. Time required, 3 hours. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 

1,287. CHAUDFROID DE CAILLES EN CAISSES. 



3 quails. 


salad. 


salt. 


1 gill sherry. 


^ lb. calf's liver. 


1 slice carrot. 


aspic jelly. 


^ pint stock. 


2 ozs. bacon. 


1 shallot. 


meat-glaze. 


pepper. 



Bone the quails, leaving in the drum-sticks. Cut up the liver and bacon, the 
shallot and carrot ; chop them separately. Put the bacon into a saute-pan, coolc it, 
then add the liver, shallot, and carrot. When cooked, pound in a mortar, season 
with salt and pepper, and rub through a sieve. Stuff the birds with this farce ; tie 
each one up in mushn, put them in a stewpan, with their bones, the wine, and stock. 
Bring to the boil, and simmer for half an hour. Take up, put them on a plate, put 




Fig. 85.— Chaodfroid de Cailles en Caisses. 



another over, and press shghtly until cold. When cold, cut each quail in half. 
Glaze them well, so that they are a nice dark brown. Have ready six boat-shaped 
cases ; three-parts fill them with small dressed salad ; dish each half-quail on the 
salad, garnish round each quail with chopped aspic, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



1,288. CHAUDFROID DE CAILLES, FARCIES (CHAUDFROID OF QUAILS, 

STUFFED). 

4 quails. 1 tablespoonful brown sauce 8 chicken livers. 

1 shallot. (No. 6). 1 slice of fat bacon. 

aspic jolly. 1 pint white chaudfroid sauce 1 toaspoonful chopped carrot. 

parsley. (No. 124). mayonnaise sauce (No. 13-4). 

Bone the quails, leaving in the drum-sticks and claws. Chop the bacon finely, 
and fry a httle in a frying-pan ; add the chopped shallot and carrot ; cook these for 
a few minutes, then put in the chopped chicken hvers and the bro^vn sauce. Stir 

24—2 



lettuce, 
pepper. 

salt, 
truffles. 



370 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



these over the fire until thoroughly cooked ; season with pepper and salt, and then 
put into a mortar and pound well. Rub through a fine sieve, and then stuff the 
quails with it. Roll each bird in a piece of muslin, tie the ends with string, place 
in a pan of boihng wat«r, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take 
them up, and press lightly in the cloths until cold. Remove the mushn, cut each 
quail in halves lengthways, and lay them, cut side down, on a wire icing -tray. Cover 
each with a coating of white chaudfroid sauce, giving them two or three layers 
until a good coating is obtained. Decorate the birds with truffle, cut in fancy 
patterns. Have ready some half-set aspic jelly, and pour this over the decorations, 
in order to give it a bright appearance. Wash the lettuce thoroughly, dry well, 
break it into small pieces, and moisten with a httle mayonnaise sauce. Pile this 
as high as possible in the centre of a dish, dress the quails against it, with the claws 
meeting in the middle. Chop some aspic jelly, place a little between each quail 
and also round the dish. Garnish with the heart of the lettuce and a few sprigs of 

parsley. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 

for 8 persons. 



1,289. CHAUDFROID DE CAILLES (CHAUDFROID OF QUAILS). 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 134). 



J lb. chicken force- 
meat (No. 202). 
preserved mushrooms. 



1 jar pate de foie- 

gras. 
rice for border. 



4 quails. 

lettuce. 

meat-glaze. 

Bone the quails, leaving in the drum-sticks and claws. Make the chicken force- 
meat, sieve the foie-gras, and mix into the chicken meat. Stuff the quails with this. 
Roll each bird in a piece of muslin, tie with string, place in a pan of boiling water or 
stock, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take them up, press hghtly until 
cold in the cloth. Remove the mushn, cut each bird in half lengthways, and lay 
them on a wire icing-tray. Glaze them over carefully with meat-glaze, putting on 
several layers, until a good coating is obtained. Cut some preser^^cd mushrooms 
in fancy patterns, and decorate the quails with them. Cover with a coating of 
half -set aspic jelly, and then put aside to thoroughly set. Boil 4 ozs. of rice in 
1^ pints of white stock, until quite thick, then turn it into a border-mould, and put 
aside to set. Turn it out on a cold dish ; wash and dry the lettuce, break into small' 
pieces, and mix with a little mayonnaise sauce. Place this in the centre of the 
border-mould, dress the quails on the rice, leaning against the salad, with the claws 
meeting in the centre. Chop some aspic jelly, place a little between each quail and 
also round the dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and the heart of the lettuce (see 
coloured plate). 

Average cost, 8s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



1,290. CAILLES FARCIES. 



3 quails, 
lettuce. 



meat-glaze (No. 
247). 



liver stuffing (No. 1,288). 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



hard-boiled egg. 
aspic jelly. 



Bone the quails, leaving in the drum-sticks ; stuff with the liver farce, tie each 
in muslin, and cook in boihng stock for fifteen minutes. Take up, and press hghtly 
until cold. Cut each quail in half ; lay them on a dish, and glaze over with meat- 
glaze. Wash and dry the lettuce, cut it up, and mix with mayonnaise sauce. 
Pile this in the centre of a dish, arrange the quails, leaning against it, with their 
claws meeting in the centre. Garnish between each and round the dish with 
chopped aspic jelly. Decorate round the dish with quarters of hard-boiled egg. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. In season all the year. Suffix 
cient for 6 persons. 





I/) 

Ji 

o 

-o 
o 

o 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



371 



1,291. MAUVIETTES EN CAISSES (LARKS IN CASES). 



8 larks. 
1 shallot, 
parsley. 



8 oval souffle cases. 
6 chicken livers. 
1 slice fat bacon. 



aspic jelly. 

meat-glaze (No. 247). 
mustard-and-cress. 



1 teaspoonful of chopped carrot. 
1 tablespoonful of brown sauce 
(No. G). 

Bone the larks, leaving in the drum-sticks and claws. Chop the chicken livers 
very finely, also the bacon and shallot. Fry the bacon a little in a frying-pan ; add 
the shallot, carrot, and livers ; cook these over the fire ; season with pepper and 
salt, and moisten with the brown sauce. Put this mixture into a mortar, pound 
well, and then rub through a wire sieve. Stuff the larks with this mixture ; roll 
each in a piece of muslin, tie at each end with string, place in a pan of boiling water 
or stock, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Take them up, remove 
the muslin, let them get cold, and then glaze them all over with meat-glaze. Make 
a bed of mustard-and-cress at the bottom of each souffle-case, lay one of the larks 
in each, and surround with a little chopped aspic jelly. Dish these cases up, and 
garnish the dish with a few sprigs of parsley. 

Average ost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. In season, August 1 to March 1. 
Sufficient for 8 cases. 




Fig. 86. — Mauviettes en Caisses. 



1,292. BALLOTINES DE BECASSINES (BALLOTINES OF SNIPES). 



6 snipes. 

stock. 

parsley. 



1 pint brown chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 126). 
6 ozs. rice. 



I lb. veal forcemeat (No. 



aspic jelly (No. 

251). 
2 truffles. 



201). 
6 preserved mushrooms. 

Boil the rice in 1 quart of white stock until quite thick and tender, turn it into 
a dome-shaped mould, and put aside to set. Bone the snipes, cut each down the back, 
and lay out flat on the table ; season with pepper and salt. Chop the truffles finely, 
mix into the veal forcemeat, and then spread a layer of it over each snipe. Roll 
them up, wrap in buttered paper, fasten with string, and cook in boiling stock for 
about twenty minutes. Take up, and allow them to get cold in the paper. Remov^e 
the string and paper, and coat each ballotine with brown chaudfroid sauce. Decorate 
with preserved mushrooms, cut in fancy shapes, and then glaze over with half-set 
aspic jelly. Turn out the rice-shape in the centre of a dish, arrange the ballotines 
round, leaning against the centre-piece. Garnish between each and round the 
dish with chopped aspic jelly, and a few sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost of snipes. Is. to 2s. 6d. each ; cost of other ingredients, 2s. Time 
required, 1 hour. In season, August 1 to March 1. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



372 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,293. MEDAILLONS DE GIBIER (MEDALLIONS OF GAME). 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
lb. cooked game. 



2 sheets gelatine. 



gill salmi sauce (No. 76). 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
truffle. 



cayenne pepper. 



6 preserved mushrooms, 
parsley or watercress. 

Line eight oval-shaped moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Cut the white of 
the hard-boiled egg into fancy patterns, and decorate the moulds with them, also 
with a little truffle. Set these in with a little more aspic jelly. Mince the game and 
mushrooms finely, put into a mortar with the salmi sauce, and pound well ; season 
with salt and cayenne, rub through a fine sieve. Melt the gelatine in | gill of aspic 
jelly, stir this into the game puree, and then fill up the decorated moulds with this 
mixture. When set, dip the moulds in warm water, turn out, and arrange in the 
form of a star. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic jelly and sprigs of parsley or 
watercress. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. In season, August to February. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fia. 87. — Medaillons db Gibier. 



1,294. GAME PIE. 



2 lbs. flour. 
2 gills water. 



game of any kind, 
pepper and salt. 



J lb. butter. 
J lb. bacon. 



2 yolks of eggs. 
8 mushrooms. 



\ lb. veal. 



stock. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, with a little salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan 
with the water, when boifing ; pour into the flour ; add the yolks of eggs, and mix 
well. Put about one-third of this paste aside in a warm place ; roll the rest out quickly, 
and line a buttered raised pie-tin with it. Place a layer of veal and bacon, both 
cut into small pieces, at the bottom of the mould, then a sprinkling of chopped 
mushrooms ; over that a layer of game, cut into neat pieces, then a layer of veal, etc., 
until the mould is full. Each layer must be weU seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Roll out the paste which was put aside, and cover the top with it ; make a hole in the 
centre, surround with a wreath of pastry-leaves, place a rose or tassel in the centre, 
egg over, and bake in a moderate oven for three to four hours. Take out, and leave 
in the mould until cold. When nearly cold, take out the centre tassel, and fill the 
pie with good stock. Replace the tassel, and leave until cold. Take out of the tin, 
dish up, and garnish with watercress. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 5 or 6 hours. In season, August to 
February. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



COLD ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME 



373 



1,295. PAIN DE LIEVRE A LA JARDINIERE (PUREE OF HARE WITH 

VEGETABLES). 



8 ozs. cooked hare. 
^ glass po^t-^vine. 
I pint game stock. 
1 oz. butter. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
macedoine of vegetables. 
1 pint stock, 
seasoning. 



vinegar, 
salad-oil. 
1 truffle. 
^ onion. 



J gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

1 hard-boiled white of egg. 

1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 

brown chaudfroid sauce (No. 126). 

Line a border-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly. When this is set, line the 
mould all over with brown chaudfroid sauce ; put on ice. Cut up the hare, put it 
into a mortar with the brown sauce and the game stock ; pound well together, and, 
wlien smooth, pass through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, add to it the 
glass of port-wine ; season to taste, and stir in about | pint of aspic jelly. Fill the 
prepared border-mould with this mixture, and put on the ice to set. To prepare 
the game stock, which should be done first, cut up the onion in small pieces ; melt 
the butter in a stewpan ; put in the onion, the chopped bones of the hare, and the 
bouquet garni. Fry these all together for about ten minutes, then add the stock ; 
simmer for forty-five minutes, skim it well, strain, and use as directed. Turn out 
the border on to a dish, fill the centre with a macedoine of Vegetables seasoned with 
salad-oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Pile this in the form of a pyramid ; rub the 
hard-boiled white of egg through a wire sieve ; spread this all over the vegetables, 
and over the egg sprinkle some chopped truffle. Garnish the base of the dish with 
chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d., without the hare. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable. 
August to March. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



CHAPTER XVI 



RELEVES (REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, 

AND GAME) 



7 lbs. sirloin of beef. 
6 small tomatoes. 
18 mushrooms. 
J oz. meat-glaze. 



1 pint stock. 
1^ gills sherry. 
^ lb. bacon, 
pepper and salt. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
4 shallots. 
1 oz. butter. 



1,296. ALOYAU DE BCEUF A LA PROVENCALE (SIRLOIN OF BEEF, 

PROVENCAL STYLE). 

bouquet garni (No. 194). 
1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 pint Madeira sauce. 
1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 

Bone the sirloin, trim it, taking away the skin and gristle at the top, and some of 
the fat, leaving only what is necessary. Cut the bacon into strips, and lard the meat 
with it ; tie up the joint into a nice shape. Slice the onion and carrot, put them into 
a, braising-pan, place the joint on them ; add the herbs, stock, and 1 gill of wine ; 
put the pan in a moderate oven, and braise for about two hours. The meat should 
be basted occasionally. Half an hour before the meat is done prepare the garnish. 
Cut a small round from the top of each tomato, scoop out some of the inside ; rub 
this through a sieve. Chop six mushrooms and the shallots finely ; melt 1 oz. of 
butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped shallots, and fry them, without browning ; 
add the mushrooms, and cook. Stir in | gill of sherry ; reduce to half, then add 
the tomato-pulp, meat-glaze, salt, and pepper, grated Parmesan cheese, and the 
Bechamel sauce. Stuff the tomatoes with this preparation ; place on a buttered tin, 
and cook in the oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare the mushrooms ; 
cook them in butter. When the meat is done, take it up, untie, and keep hot. 
Heat the Madeira sauce ; add to it the liquor in the pan that the meat was cooked 
in, first skimming off all the fat. Boil for ten minutes ; season to taste. Strain 
some of this sauce over the meat ; the remainder is sent to table in a sauce-tureen. 
Garnish round the dish with the tomatoes and mushrooms, the latter in groups, and 
serve. 

Average cost, lOs. Time to prepare, 2^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 10 persons. 

1,297. PIECE DE BCEUF BRAISE A LA FLAMANDE (BRAISED RUMP OF BEEF, 

FLEMISH STYLE). 



6 lbs. rump of beef. 
1 bouquet garni (No. 
194). 



larding bacon. 
1^ pints stock. 
1 cabbage. 



small boiled potatoes, 
demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 
4 ozs. bacon. 



2 carrots. ' 1 clove. 
1 onion. salt. 
1 turnip. I pepper. 

Trim the beef, remove skin and gristle ; lard it on one side with strips of larding 

bacon ; braise on a bed of vegetables in the oven in the usual way for about two 

hours. While this is cooking, prepare the garnish. Cut the cabbage, which should 

be firm, into quarters ; take out the hard part, and parboil it for six or seven minutes. 

Drain, cool, and divide into leaves ; put them into a saucepan, with one carrot cut 

in quarters, one onion stuck with a clove, a bouquet of herbs, the bacon cut in 

squares, | pint of stock, and pepper and salt. Put the pan on the fire, bring to the 

boil, then cook in the oven gently for about one hour and a half. Cut the remaining 

carrot and the turnip into pieces the shape of olives ; cook the carrots in | pint of 

374 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 375 



stock or more, and the turnips also in the same quantity. Each vegetable should be 
cooked separately. Reduce the stock in each case to glaze, so that the vegetables 
may be nicely glazed when the cooking is finished. Have ready some small, plain- 
boiled potatoes. Dress the meat on a hot dish, and arrange the glazed carrots, 
turnips, and potatoes in alternate groups round the meat, wdth the cabbage and the 
bacon between. The sauce should be sent up separately. 

Average cost, 7s. Time required, 2\ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 or 10 persons. 



1,298 

4 lbs. rump of beef, 
crushed clove of garlic 
1 bouquet garni. 



BCEUF BRAISE A LA MODE (BRAISED BEEF A LA MODE) 

2 carrots. 
2 onions. 
2 cloves. 



o 



"Z ozs. butter. 
\\ pints stock. 
1 oz. Hour. 



allspice, 
salt. 



larding bacon. 

1 gill white wine. 

\ gill brandy. 1 oz. Hour. 15 cloves. pepper. 

Trim the meat, lard it with strips of larding bacon ; place the meat in a deep 
dish, add to it the crushed garlic, cloves, allspice, wine, brandy, one onion and 
carrot (sliced), pepper and salt. Let the meat remain in this for some hours, turning 
it occasionally. When ready to cook, drain the meat, dry it, and fry in the butter 
until a light brown Then take up the meat and fry the remaining carrot and 
onion shghtly in the same butter ; add the flour, and brown it a little ; stir in the 
strained liquor that the meat was steeped in, the stock, and the bouquet garni ; let 
it boil, and then skim well. Put the meat into this ; simmer slowly for about two 
hours. When the meat is done, dish it up ; take the fat off the sauce, and strain 
over the meat ; garnish round with the carrots and onions, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, after steeping, 2\ hours. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. 

1,299. PIECE DE BCEUF A LA JARDINIERE (BRAISED RUMP OF BEEF WITH 

VEGETABLES). 



8 lbs. rump of beef. 


\ pint Espagnole 


2 ozs. butter. 


2 onions 


\ pint white wine. 


sauce (No. 33). 


larding bacon. 


\ turnip. 


1 small cauliflower. 


\\ pints stock. 


meat-glaze. 


pepper. 


\ lb. Brussels sprouts. 


1 bouquet garni. 


3 carrots. 


salt. 



Trim the meat, removing fat and gristle ; lard it with strips of larding bacon in 
rows ; season with pepper and salt, and tie it with string, to keep it a nice shape. 
Prepare the onions, one carrot and turnip ; cut them in slices. Melt the butter in a 
large ste\\^an ; put in the vegetables ; place the fillet on the top ; add the wine, stock, 
and bouquet garni ; simmer for three hours. Cook the c uliflower and the sprouts. 
Cut two carrots into pieces, and shape them like olives ; boil these in salted water 
until nearly cooked ; drain them, and put into a stewpan containing some melted 
glaze. Toss in this until the carrots are nicely glazed, and quite cooked. When 
the beef is ready, take it up, drain, and place on a hot dish. Strain the gravy into 
another saucepan ; remove the fat, reduce the liquor, then add the sauce. Let it 
simmer for ten minutes. Glaze the meat on the larded side, and garnish with the 
vegetables. Divide the cauhfiower into nice pieces, and put a group at each end 
of the dish and at each side ; place some carrots on each side of the cauliflower, 
and the Brussels sprouts between. Serve with the gravy sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 10s. Time required, 3| hours. Seasonable, September to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. 



1,300. 

4 lbs. fillet of beef, 
chopped parsley. 
\ lb. streaky bacon 



FILET DE BCEUF BRAISE A LA NAPOLITAINE. 



larding bacon. 

1 pint stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 carrot. 

1 onion. 

salt and pepper. 



1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 

\ lb. spaghetti. 

\ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 

Obtain a piece of middle-cut of fillet, trim off the sinews and fat ; lard one side 
of the meat with strips of larding bacon, and tie round with string, so as to keep it 
a good shape. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, shce them, and cut the bacon into 



376 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

pieces. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a deep stewpan ; put in the vegetables and bacon 
with the piece of meat on the top ; add the bouquet and seasoning. Put the pan 
on the fire, and shghtly brown the fillet ; then add the stock, cover wdth a greased 
paper and the hd of the pan ; braise slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven ; 
baste occasionally. When cooked (the fillet should be underdone), take it up, 
remove the fat from the Hquor in the pan, add the tomato sauce, and reduce until 
of a right consistency, then strain into a clean stewpan, and keep hot. Untie the 
fillet, and put it into the sauce. Drop the spaghetti into plenty of fast-boiling 
water, slightly salted ; cook for about twenty minutes. When done, drain it ; melt 
1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the spaghetti, and mix thoroughly ; season to 
taste with salt and pepper, and mix in a little of the sauce from the beef. Dress 
the fillet on a hot dish, larded side up. Pour a little of the sauce over the meat ; 
garnish with the spaghetti ; sprinkle the latter with a httle chopped parsley, and 
serve. The remainder of the sauce should be sent up separately. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 8 persons. 

1,301. FILET DE BCEUF PIQUE AUX CHAMPIGNONS (LARDED FILLET OF 

BEEF WITH MUSHROOMS). 

Madeira sauce (No. 50). meat-glaze. salt and pepper, 

larding bacon. vegetables. butter. 

Trim the fillet by removing the skin and some of the fat ; lard it in rows with strips 
of larding bacon ; trim these strips with scissors, so as to get them all the same 
length. Cut some vegetables — i.e., carrots, turnip, onion — into slices ; line a deep 
baking-tin with these ; place the fillet on the top ; season with a httle pepper and 
Bait ; pour some dripping over the top, and roast in a moderate oven for about one 
hour. Baste the meat while cooking, and when done, brush it over with meat- 
glaze. Cook the mushrooms in butter in a stewpan ; toss them about in the butter ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dish the fillet ; warm the sauce ; add to it the gravy 
from the meat. Pour a little of this round the fillet ; garnish with groups of mush- 
rooms, and serve. The remainder of the sauce should be sent up separately. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 to 8 persons. 

1,302. FILET DE BCEUF PIQUE A LA TYROLIENNE (LARDED FILLET 

OF BEEF). 



4 lbs. fillet of beef. 
1 lb. mushrooms. 



4 lbs. fillet of beef. 
8 small tomatoes, 
meat-glaze (No. 247). 



1 wineglassful 

white wine. 

larding bacon. 



1 pint stock. 

2 ozs. butter. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 

salt. 
pepper. 



1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 
^ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
8 roimd potato croquettes. 

Take away the fat and skin from the fillet ; lard it on one side with strips of 
larding bacon ; tie with string, so as to keep it a good shape. Peel the onion, scrape 
the carrot, cut them in slices. Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the 
sHced vegetables ; place the fillet on the top, and fry over the fire until Hghtly 
browned, then add the wine, stock, bouquet garni, and seasoning. Cover with a 
buttered paper ; put on the lid, and cook gently on the fire or in a moderate oven 
for about one hour (the time for cooking depends on whether the meat is liked under- 
done or not) ; baste the joint occasionally. Cook the tomatoes in butter (they should 
be kept whole). Dish the fillet, larded side up ; brush over with meat-glaze ; reduce 
the liquor in the braising-pan, remove the fat, strain it into a clean saucepan, add 
the tomato sauce, and simmer for ten minutes. Pour a little of the sauce round the 
fillet ; serve the remainder of the sauce separately. Garnish round the fillet with 
the tomatoes and potato croquettes, arranged alternately. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 persons. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 377 



1 pint stock, 
mushrooms, 
salt and pepper. 
1 carrot. 



2 onions. 
2 cloves, 
truffles, 
butter. 



1,303. FILET DE BOEUF A LA RICHELIEU. 

4 lbs. fillet of beef. \ pint Richelieu sauce. (No. 70). 

larding bacon. 8 chicken quenelles (Nos. 202 
1 glass white wine. and 324). 

1 bouquet garni. piece of celery. 

Trim and lard the fillet. Prepare the carrot, onions, and celery ; cut them into 
slices ; put them into a ste^vpan ; place the fillet on the vegetables ; add the stock, 
wine, bouquet garni, cloves, and seasoning ; set to braise, either in the oven or over 
a slow fire. When the joint is cooked, place it on a dish ; brush over with glaze, 
and keep hot. Strain the hquor, remove the fat, and reduce to half-glaze ; add to 
it the Richelieu sauce ; pour it round the meat, and garnish the dish round the fillet 
with the chicken quenelles, fresh mushrooms cooked in butter, and truffles. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 persons. 

1,304. LANGUE DE BCEUF FROID (OX-TONGUE). 

1 pickled ox-tongue. | bouquet gami (No. 194). | glaze. | aspic jelly (No. 251). [ parsley. 

Soak the tongue in cold water for a few hours. Then put it into a saucepan, 
cover with cold water, add the herbs, place the pan on the fire, bring sloMdy to the 
boil ; skim it well, and cook gently for two and a half to three hours. When done, 
take it up and skin (this must be done carefully). Take out the bones at the root. 
When the tongue has been skinned, put it on a board ; shape it nicely, and let it get 
cold. \^Tien quite cold, trim the root neatly. Glaze it ; put a paper frill round the 
root ; dish up, and garnish round with chopped aspic jelly and fresh sprigs of crisp 
parsley. 

Average cost of tongue, 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Time required, after soaking, 4 hours. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



6 peppercorns. 
brei,dcrumbs. 



2 cloves. 
1 oz. salt. 



1 onion. 

egg- 



1,305. LANGUE DE BCEUF ROTI (ROAST OX-TONGUE). 

1 fresh ox-tongue. I bunch of savoury herbs. 
1 gill port-wine. | 1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

Soak the tongue for an hour. Trim it nicely ; put it into a saucepan, cover it 
well with cold water ; add the onion, stuck with the cloves, the herbs, peppercorns, 
and salt. Let it come to the boil, simmer gently for two and a half hours, then 
skin it. Brush over with beaten egg ; breadcrumb it well all over, and bake for 
half an hour, keeping it well basted. Heat the bro^vn sauce, add the wine to it ; 
season nicely ; simmer for ten minutes. Dish the tongue, and send to table with the 
sauce separately. Red-currant jelly is often served with roast tongue. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Time to roast. 30 minutes. Seasonable at ail 
times. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



1,306. LANGUE DE BCEUF AU MADERE (OX-TONGUE WITH MADEIRA 

SAUCE). 



1 pickled ox-tongue. 
6 peppercorns. 



1 cauliflower. 
French beans. 



bunch of savoury herbs. 1 1 onion. I meat-glaze. 

1 pint Madeira sauce (No. 50). I 2 cloves. I salt. 

Soak the tongue for a few hours in cold water. Put it into a saucepan with 
the herbs, onion stuck with the cloves, peppercorns, and salt ; cover with cold 
water, and boil gently for two and a half to three hours ; skim it well. When done, 
skin it, and put back in the boiling water to get thoroughly hot. When about to 
serve, glaze it quickly ; place on a hot dish, and garnish round with groups of cauh- 
flower and cooked French beans. Serve with the Madeira sauce separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Time required, 2\ to 3 hours to boil. Season- 
able at all times. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



378 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



4 lbs. cushion of veal. 

larding bacon. 

2 lbs. cooked spinach. 



1,307. FRICANDEAU DE VEAU AUX EPINARDS (BRAISED CUSHION OF VEAL 

WITH SPINACH). 

bouquet garni (No. 194). 1 pint stock. 1 carrot, 

f pint Espagnole sauco (No. 33). 1 oz. butter. salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 1 onion. pepper. 

Take off the skin from the veal and most of the fat ; lard it with strips of larding 
Lacon, arranged in rows, close together. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, cut in 
sUces, and line a deep stewpan with them ; also add the trimmings of larding bacon 
and the bouquet garni. Place the meat on this, keeping the larded side up ; season 
with pepper and salt ; add the stock ; cover with buttered paper and the lid of the 
saucepan ; place it on the fire or in the oven, and cook gently for about two hours. 
When done, take up the veal, put it on a baking-sheet, and put it in the oven for 
about ten minutes, to glaze the bacon. Strain the stock, remove all fat from it, and 
reduce it to half-glaze ; add the sauce ; season to taste, and boil it up. Have ready- 
cooked the 2 lbs. of spinach ; drain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt the 
butter in a stewpan ; put in the spinach, and mix until quite hot ; then season to 
taste ; add the cream ; cook for five minutes longer. Dish the veal on a hot dish, 
glaze it quickly, and arrange the spinach round it in a neat border. Send the sauce 
to table in a sauce-tureen. 

Average cost, 5s. 9d. Time required, about 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



,*■ 



1,308. 

8 lbs. fillet of veal. 

1 oz. cooked lane ham. 

2 tablespoonfuls bread- 
crumbs. 



J pint water or 

stock. 
2 ozs. suet. 
2 ozs. butter. 



VEAL). 

salt, 
pepper. 



legg. 

1 oz. flour. 



FILET DE VEAU FARCI (STUFFED FILLET OF 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
h teaspoonful chopped savoury 

herbs, 
rind of J lemon. 

Bone the fillet of veal ; chop the suet, mix it with the breadcrumbs in a basin ; 
add the parsley, herbs, salt, and pepper ; chop the ham finely, and the thinly-peeled 
rind of the lemon. Add these to the rest of the ingredients. Beat the egg, and 
stir it in. If there is not sufficient to mix, use a little milk in addition. Stuff the 
hollow left by the bone with this forcemeat ; tie the meat round with string, and 
skewer it. Put the joint on to a baking-tin ; put some dripping on the top ; put it 
in the oven, and cook for about two and a half hours or longer (veal should always 
be well cooked). Baste the meat well whilst cooking. Put the butter into a small 
stewpan, and as soon as it is melted stir in the flour, and cook it over the fire until 
brown, then add the water or stock and stir until it boils. Let it simmer gently for 
a few minutes. As soon as the fillet of veal is cooked, take it up and place on a hot 
dish. Take the fat off the gravy in the pan ; pour in h pint of boiling water ; stir it 
well, so as to loosen the essence of the meat which sticks to the pan ; add this to 
the sauce. Season to taste, boil up, strain it over the veal, and serve. 



Average cost, 8s. 
to 12 persons. 



6d. Time to cook the joint, 2J to 3 hours. Sufficient for 10 



1,309. LONGE DE VEAU BRAISE (BRAISED LOIN OF VEAL). 



8 lbs. best end of loin of veal. 

bouquet garni. 

1 pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



veal stuffing. 
\h pints stock. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
^ turnip. 



salt. 

pepper. 

mushrooms. 



Bone the loin, trim it, and remove some of the fat ; make the veal stuffing as in 
last recipe ; fill in the space left by the removal of the bone ; fold the undercut over 
it ; roll up, and tie securely with string. Peel the onion and turnip, scrape the carrot, 
and cut them in sHces. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a large stewpan ; put in the vege- 
tables ; lay the loin on the top ; add the bouquet and the stock ; cover with a buttered 
paper ; put on the fid of the saucepan, and braise gently over the fire for about three 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 379 



hours. Baste constantly during the cooking. When done, take it up, drain, and 
put it in the oven to get hot. Strain the hquor in the pan, take off the fat, and 
reduce the gravy to half-glaze ; then add the brown sauce ; season to taste with 
pepper and salt, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Dress the meat on a dish, 
and garnish round ^vith groups of cooked mushrooms. Pour a little of the sauce 
round the dish, and serve the remainder separately. 

Average cost of loin of veal, lid. per lb. Time required, 3^ hours. Seasonable 
at all times. 



1,310. NOIX DE VEAU A LA PALESTINE. 



bouquet garni (No. 194). 
1 lb. Brussels sprouts. 
1 dessertspoonful stock, 
meat-glaze (No. 247). 



1 pint Bechamel sauce 
(No. 4). 

2i lbs. Jerusalem arti- 
chokes. 



cushion of veal. 
3 lbs. potatoes. 
1 oz. lean ham. 
yolks of 2 eggs. 



larding bacon. 
1 pint stock. 
6 ozs. butter. 
i gill cream. 



2 onions, 
salt. 
pepper. 
1 bay-leaf. 

Line the 



Trim the cushion of veal, lard it with strips of bacon, 2 inches long 
bottom of a large stewpan with the trimmings of the bacon, the onions sliced, and 
the bouquet garni ; put the veal on the top ; season with salt and pepper ; add the 
pint of stock ; place the Hd on the stewpan, and put it in a moderate oven for three 
hours. Baste the meat frequently whilst cooking ; if necessary, more stock may be 
added. Peel the artichokes ; wash well in acidulated water, and trim to a pear 
shape. Put six of these aside, and boil the remainder in sufficient water to cover. 
Add to them a little lemon-juice and salt ; cook until tender. Peel and boil the 
potatoes. When done, drain, and mash them with 1 oz. of butter and a little milk. 
Press them into a large border-mould, and stand it in a cool oven to keep hot or 
in a bain-marie. Boil the Brussels sprouts, and drain. Cut the six artichokes 
that were put aside, shoe them thinly. Melt 4 ozs. of butter in a stewpan ; add 
the shced artichokes, the ham finely chopped, the bay-leaf, and the dessertspoonful 
of stock. Cook gently until the artichokes are soft ; add the Bechamel sauce ; 
season to taste with salt and pepper, and cook for twenty minutes ; then rub through 
a hair sieve. Beat together the yolks of eggs and cream ; add them to the sauce, 
and stir over the fire until very hot, but it must not boil. Take up the veal when 
cooked, and glaze with meat-glaze. Turn out the border of potato on to a hot 
dish ; scoop out a httle of the centre of each artichoke at the thickest end, and put 
a Brussels sprout in each ; then place the thinnest end of the artichokes in the 
potato border. Dish the veal in the centre ; pour the sauce round and on the 
potato, and serve. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable, September to 
February. 

1,311. GIGOT DE MOUTON BOUILLI AUX NAVETS (BOILED LEG OF 

MUTTON WITH TURNIPS). 



1 small leg of mutton, 
caper sauce (No. 15). 
bouquet garni (No. 194). 



a few carrots. 

celery. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 

1 bunch turnips. 

^ gill cream* 



Put the leg of mutton in a large saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to 
cover ; bring to the boil, and skim well ; then add a few carrots cut in pieces, a stick 
of celery, bouquet garni, and salt ; draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer 
gently for about two and a half to three hours, according to size. Peel the turnips, 
cut them in quarters, and boil until soft, then mash them ; stir in the butter, salt, 
and pepper, and the cream ; mix well over the fire. When the mutton is done, take 
it up and place it on a hot dish ; strain a Uttle of the water it was cooked in round 
it ; garnish with the carrots cut in nice pieces. Dish the turnips in a vegetable dish, 
and pile them up in the shape of a pyramid. Send to table with the mutton and 
a sauce-tureen of caper sauce. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, according to size, lOd. to Is. per lb. Time required, 2^ to 3 hours. 
Seasonable at all times. 



380 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,312. GIGOT D'AGNEAU FARCI (STUFFED LEG OF LAMB). 



leg of lamb. 
3 ozs. butter. 
2 carrots. 



18 fresh mush- 
rooms, 
salt. 



1 onion. 

1 glass white wine. 

1 pint veal stock. 



pepper. 

1 tablespoonful meat- 
glaze (No. 247). 

Bone the leg of lamb, leaving only a short piece of the shin-bone to act as handle. 
Peel the mushrooms, and chop them coarsely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; 
put in the mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and cook ; then add the meat- 
glaze ; turn on to a plate, and let it get cold. Stuff the leg with the mushrooms, and 
sew it up neatly. Cut up the vegetables in slices. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in a large 
stewpan, put in the vegetables, lay the leg of lamb on the top, and add the lamb- 
bones. Brown the leg hghtly, then dilute with the wine and stock. Put the pan 
in a moderate oven for about one hour. Dish up the joint, strain off the fat from 
the gravy, season it, reduce a Uttle, and serve separately. 

Average cost. Is. to Is. 2d., according to season. Time required, 15 minutes 
to the lb. Seasonable, December to August. 

1,313. SELLE DE MOUTON ROTI (ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON), 
saddle of mutton. | dripping. | red-currant jelly. | potato croquettes. 

Choose a saddle of mutton that has been hung long enough to be tender, trim 
it, and take away all unnecessary fat ; cut the flaps short, roll them up, but do not 
let them cover the undercut ; tie it with string in several places. Put the joint in 
a baking-tin ; put some dripping on the top, and roast, first placing it in a hot oven 
to brown, and then into a cooler part of the oven to finish cooking ; baste con- 
stantly whilst roasting. Wlien the saddle is done, take it up, put on a hot dish, and 
stand it in the oven until the gravy is made. Pour away the dripping from the pan ; 
add some boifing water to the gravy, stir well, so as to loosen the essence of the 
meat on the tin ; boil up ; season with a httle salt, and strain it into a sauce-tureen. 
Garnish the joint with potato croquettes arranged at each end of the dish. Send 
to table with the sauce and some red-currant jelly. 

Average cost of saddle, lOd. to Is. per lb. Time required, uncertain — depends 
on the size ; also, well-kept meat takes a shorter time to cook than if fresh. Season- 
able at all times. 

1,314. TO COOK A YORK HAM. 

Choose a ham with a thin, smooth skin. Soak it in cold water for twelve hours, 
scrape it clean, and put into a large stewpan, cover it well with cold water, put on 
the fire and bring to the boil slowly ; simmer for four to five hours, according to 
size. When the ham is cooked, draw the pan away from the fire and let it get cold 
in the water, then take it up and skin it. The ham can then be either covered with 
brown breadcrumbs, or it can be glazed. 

Average cost of a York ham. Is. to Is. 2d. per lb. 

1,315. JAMBON BRAISfi AU MAD£rE (BRAISED HAM WITH MADEIRA). 

a small ham. | 1 bottle Marsala or Madeira wine. | ^ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 29). | glaze. 

Soak the ham in cold water for twelve hours, saw off the knuokle-bone quite 
close ; put the ham into a large stewpan, cover well with cold water, bring slowly 
to the boil, and simmer gently until done. Take up the ham and skin, put it into 
another saucepan, add the wine to it, and simmer gently for half an hour, basting it 
frequently with the wine. Take up the ham, brush over with glaze, and keep hot. 
Add the sauce to the wine left in the stewpan, simmer for ten minutes, strain and 
skim the sauce, pour some of it round the ham, and serve the remainder separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 381 

.1,316. GIGOT DE MOUTON ROTI AUX TOMATES (ROAST LEG OF MUTTON 

WITH TOMATOES). 
8 lbs. leg of mutton. | 6 tomatoes. | salt. | pepper. | 2 ozs. butter. | mushrooms. \ chopped parsley. 

Trim the leg of mutton, place it on a baking-tin, and bake it for two to two 
and a half hours ; baste it well during the cooking. Skin the tomatoes by dipping 
them into hot water, and then peehng carefully with a knife. Cut them in halves ; 
butter a baking-tin, put the tomatoes on it ; season with pepper and salt, and cook 
them in the oven with a buttered paper over for about ten minutes ; they must not 
get too soft. Wash, dry, and peel some mushrooms ; melt some butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the mushrooms, and cook for about ten minutes ; season them with salt 
and pepper. Dress the leg of mutton on a hot dish. Make the gravy by pouring 
away the dripping from the baking-tin, and adding boiling water to the essence of 
the meat in the tin ; stir with a spoon, in order to loosen the gravy. Season with 
salt, and pour it over the meat. Garnish round the dish with the tomatoes and 
mushrooms arranged alternately. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 9s. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. 

1,317. EPAULE DE MOUTON FARCIE (STUFFED SHOULDER OF MUTTON). 



1 shoulder of mutton. 
J lb. raw bacon. 
4 ozs. mutton suet. 



^ onion. 

salt and pepper. 

2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful parsley. 

4 ozs. breadcrumbs. 

1 teaspoonful savoury herbs. 

Bone the mutton ; remove all fat that is unnecessary. Chop the suet finely, mix 
it with the breadcrumbs ; add the chopped parsley, herbs, and onion ; cut the 
bacon in very small dice, and stir it into the rest of the ingredients ; season with 
pepper and salt ; beat the eggs, and bind the farce with them. ]\Iix all well together ; 
stuff the shoulder with this preparation. Roll up the meat, fasten it with string, and 
place on a baking-tin. Put some dripping over it, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about one and a half or two hours, according tothe size of the joint. Baste occasionally. 
When done, take it up, place on a dish, and serve with gravy made from the essence 
of the meat in the baking-tin Serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost of mutton, 9d. per lb. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all 
times. 

1,318. POULARDE ROTIE (ROAST CAPON). 

Draw and truss a capon, put it on a baking-tin, or place it in front of a good 
fire ; cover the bird with butter or dripping, and either roast or bake it. Baste 
constantly while cooking. When done, take it up and put on a hot dish. Pour off 
the dripping in the baking-tin, add some brown stock, made from the giblets of 
the fowl, stir with a spoon to loosen the gravy, boil up, season with salt and pepper ; 
strain into a sauce-tureen ; garnish round the bird with well-washed and picked 
watercress. Serve with a sauce-tureen of bread sauce (No. 13). 

Average cost, 4s. to 5s. Time required, 1 hour to 1^ hours, according to size. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,319. POULET BOUILLI (BOILED FOWL). 

1 fowl. I 1 pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | 1 hard-boiled egg. | chopped parsley. 

Prepare the fowl, truss it for boiling ; have ready a saucepan of boihng water, 
put in the fowl, add some salt, skim well, and simmer until done. A large fowl will 
take about one hour to cook, a small one from half to three-quarters of an hour. 
When the fowl is done, take it up, drain, and place on a hot dish ; pour the sauce 
over, so as to quite cover it ; garnish with the hard-boiled egg rubbed through 
a sieve, and a httle chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



582 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,320. CARRE DE MOUTON BRAISE A LA JARDINIERE (BRAISED NECK 

OF MUTTON WITH VEGETABLES). 



best end of neck of mutton, 
bouquet garni (No. 194). 
\ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



I pint stock, 
pepper and salt. 
\\ ozs. butter. 



1 onion. 

2 carrots. 
2 cloves. 



2 ozs. streaky bacon, 
mixed vegetables — i.e., carrots, 
turnips, peas, beans, etc. 



Bone the neck, and trim ; roll up, and tie with string. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan ; peel the onion, scrape the carrot, cut them in slices, and put into the 
butter :\ place the meat on these, with the bacon cut in pieces on the top ; add the 
bouquet garni and the cloves. Brown the meat nicely, then add the stock, season 
with salt and pepper, put on the hd of the pan, and cook slowly for about one hour ; 
then add the sauce, and put the pan in the oven to finish cooking. When done, 
take up the meat, remove the string, and keep the joint hot. Skim the grease off 
the sauce, strain, and boil up again. Dish the neck, pour the sauce over, and garnish 
round with groups of mixed vegetables, which have been cooked separately in salted 
water, and then mixed and tossed in butter over the fire. Serve very hot. 

Average cost of mutton, 9d. per lb. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable in 
the spring and summer. 

1,321. HANCHE DE VENAISON ROTIE (ROAST HAUNCH OF 

VENISON). 

Choose a haunch of venison that has been hung for a fortnight or three weeks. 
Saw off the chine-bone and the knuckle, wipe the meat thoroughly with a damp 
cloth and then with a dry one. Cover the meat with a sheet of weU-greased paper, 
and over that a paste made of flour and water, over this again another greased 
paper, tie with string, place the venison on the spit, and put it down to a clear fire 
(or it can be baked in the oven) to roast for about three to four hours, basting it 
well during the cooking. Twenty minutes before the joint is done, take away the 
paper and paste ; baste the haunch well, and then dredge all over with flour ; put 
it again to the fire, in order to brown, basting it well. When done, dish the venison 
on a hot dish ; send to table with a good gravy, and serve red-currant jelly 
separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 3 to 4 hours, according to size. Season- 
able, June to December. 

1,322. POULET ROTI AUX CRESSONS (ROAST CHICKEN WITH WATERCRESS). 

1 fowl. I bread sauce (No. 13). | butter. | watercress. 

Prepare and truss a chicken for roasting. Put it down before a clear fire, or 
bake it in the oven. Baste it constantly with butter during the cooking. When 
done, take it up, drain, and draw out the skewers and string ; dress on a hot dish ; 
pour a httle good gravy round ; garnish with watercress, and send to table with a 
tureen of well-made bread sauce. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. Time to roast, 30 minutes to 1 hour, according 
to size. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,323. POULARDE AUX CHAMPIGNONS (PULLET WITH MUSHROOMS). 

1 pullet. I 18 white mushrooms. | lemon. | 1 pint Allemande sauce (No. 1). | larding bacon. 
Truss the pullet for boihng, rub over with lemon, to keep it white, and cover 
the breast with thin slices of larding bacon ; this is tied on with string. Have ready 
a saucepan of boihng white stock, put in the fowl, bring up to the boil again, skim 
well, and simmer for one and a quarter hours. When done, take up the bird, take 
off the bacon, place on a hot dish, cover it with Allemande sauce, and garnish round 
with the cooked mushroom-heads. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 383 



1,324. SELLE DE VENAISON, ROTIE A LA CUMBERLAND (ROAST SADDLE 

OF VENISON). 

1 small saddle of venison. Cumberland sauce i French beans, 

butter. (No. 129). I larding bacon. 

Choose a small saddle which has been well hung. Take away the skin and 
sinews, and trim the joint. Lard the saddle with strips of larding bacon, then tie 
with string. Place the joint on a baking-tin, season with salt and pepper, and put 
some pieces of butter on the top. Cook in a hot oven for the first twenty minutes, 
and then in a cooler place until done. The venison must be constantly basted 
during cooking. When the saddle is done, take it up, untie it, place on a dish in 
the oven to keep hot. Pour off the grease in the pan, add some boiling water or 
stock, stir well, boil up, season to taste, and pour it round the joint. Have ready 
some cooked French beans, drain them, and toss in butter. Send these to table 
with the venison and a sauce-tureen of Cumberland sauce. 

Average cost, uncertain Time required, according to size. Seasonable, June 
to December. 



1,325. POULARDE AU VERT PRE. 



H pints supreme 
'sauce (No. 74). 
French beans. 



peas. 

1 truffle. 

3 ozs. butter. 



pepper. 

salt. 

lemon. 



1 pullet or capon, 
larding bacon, 
asparagus- heads. 

Truss the pullet for boiling, rub the breast and legs with lemon, to keep it white, 
and cover the breast with thin slices of larding bacon ; tie this on with twine. 
Have ready a saucepan of boihng water or white stock ; put in the bird, add a little 
salt, bring up to the boil again, skim well, and simmer gently for about one and a 
quarter hours. When done, take up the bird, remove the bacon, take out the 
trussing-strings, place on a hot dish. While the bird is cooking, prepare the sauce 
and garnish. Boil the vegetables separately in salted water. When cooked, take 
3 ozs. of cooked peas, put them into a mortar with 3 ozs. of butter, a Uttle salt and 
pepper ; pound well, then rub through a hair sieve. Heat the sauce, and work this 
butter into it by degrees. Coat the pullet with this sauce ; sprinkle over some 
chopped truffle, and arrange the cooked vegetables round the dish in groups. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, May to July 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,326. POULARDE A LA POULETTE (CAPON WITH POULETTE SAUCE). 

2 cloves, 
butter. 



1 capon. 
1 onion. 



salt and pepper. 
1 lb. mushrooms. 



1 pint poulette sauce (No. 65). 
bouquet garni (No. 194). 

Truss the capon for boiling. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water or stock, 
add the onion stuck with the cloves, the bouquet garni, and a little salt ; bring to 
the boil ; skim and then simmer gently until done. Prepare the mushrooms, and 
cook them in butter. Dish the bird on a hot dish, pour the saace over, garnish with 
the mushrooms, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, about 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,327. DINDE FARCIE AUX 



MARRONS (ROAST TURKEY STUFFED WITH 
CHESTNUTS). 



1 small turkey. 
J lb. fresh pork. 



2 or 3 lbs. chestnuts. 
4 ozs. suet. 



pepper, 
dripping. 



stock, 
salt. 



1 dessertspoonful parsley. 
1 teaspoonful savoury herbs. 

Singe, draw and truss the turkey for roasting. Take away the skin and sinews 
from the pork, chop it finely, also the suet and liver of the turkey ; roast the chest- 
nuts in the oven until the outer and inner skins can be removed, then boil them in 
PT. V. 25 



384 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

stock until tender, drain and pass them through a coarse sieve. Mix the chestnuts 
with the finely minced pork and suet in a basin ; add the chopped parsley and 
herbs ; season with pepper and salt, bind with a little stock, mix all well together. 
Stuff the bird with this, both the breast and body, sew up with string, and place on 
a roasting-tin ; put some dripping into the tin, and baste with it constantly whilst 
roasting. Cook for about one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the 
bird. When cooked, dish the turkey on a hot dish, pour a Httle good gravy round, 
and send the remainder to table separately. Send also a tureen of bread sauce. 

Average cost, lid. to Is. per pound. Time required, 1 to 2 hours, according to 
size. Seasonable, November to January. 

1,328. POULARDES A LA ROYALE (CAPONS, ROYAL STYLE). 



2 capons, 
cockscombs. 



larding bacon. 1 pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 

croustade of bread. 



truffles, 
ham. 



button mushrooms. 

Truss the fowls for boiling, lard the breast of each, place them in a stewpan 
with enough stock to half cover them. It should not come above the larding. 
Cover them with a buttered paper, put on the Hd, and let simmer until the birds 
are done. While they are cooking, cut a piece of bread in the shape of a vase, 
fry a golden brown in hot fat. Place this in the centre of a dish ; dress the fowls, 
one on each side of the croustade. Have ready a ragout of cockscombs, truffles, 
cooked button mushrooms, and ham, cut in fancy pieces. Arrange this, garnish 
round the dish, and pour over the ragout the pint of sauce. Arrange some of the 
pieces of the garnish on two hatelet skewers, stick these through the croustade, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 12s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 12 persons. 

1,329. DINDE BOUILLIE— SAUCE CELERI (BOILED TURKEY WITH CELERY 

SAUCE). 



1 turkey. I sausage-meat. 

2 onions. 1 piece of celery. 



bouquet garni (No. 194). 10 peppercorns. 

forcemeat balls. 



2 carrots. 
4 cloves. 



celery sauce (No. 22). 

Prepare the turkey, truss it for boiling ; stuff the breast of the bird with sausage- 
meat, sew up the opening. Put the turkey into a large saucepan of boiling water or 
stock, sufficient to well cover it, let it come to the boil again, then skim it ; add the 
onions, stuck with the cloves, carrots, a piece of celery, bouquet garni, and the pepper- 
corns. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for about 
one hour and a half. When done, take up, drain, and dish ; remove the strings used in 
trussing, pour over the celery sauce, and garnish with forcemeat balls round the dish. 

Average cost, lid. to Is. per pound. Time required, 1| to 2 hours, according 
to size. Seasonable, September to March. 

1,330. DINDE FARCIE, FROIDE (STUFFED TURKEY, COLD). 



1 small turkey. 

2 lbs. sausages. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 



3 pints white chaudfroid 

sauce (No. 124). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



3 lbs. veal. 

truffle. 

tarragon* 



1 small pickled ox- 
tongue, 
seasoning. 

Bone the turkey in the same way as a fowl (No. 1,253). Care must be taken that 
the skin is not broken in any part. Boil the ox-tongue in the usual way, and allow 
it to get quite cold. Cut the veal into small pieces, taking away all skin, sinew, and 
bone. Shell and chop the hard-boiled eggs, rather coarsely ; put these into a basi;i 
with the veal. Skin the sausages, and mix them thoroughly with the eggs and 
veal. Season well with pepper and salt. Place the ox-tongue inside the turkey, 
having the root of the tongue towards the neck. Fill round the tongue with the veal 
and sausage mixture, giving the bird, as much as possible, its original appearance 
before boning. More veal and sausage may be required to stuff the bird, or it 
may take less, according to the size of the turkey. Roll the bird in a cloth, tie 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 385 

tightly at each end with string. Have ready a large pan of boiling stock or water, 
place the stuffed turkey in it, and let it boil gently for three to four hours, according 
to size. Take it up, tie the cloth tightly at each end with fresh string, and press 
hghtly in the cloth until cold. Remove the cloth and any fat that may be adhering 
to the bird. Have ready the white chaudfroid sauce, coat the turkey all over with 
it, giving the bird several coatings, until a good glaze is obtained. Let this set 
quite firmly, and then decorate the breast with slices of truffle, cut in fancy shapes, 
and also with leaves of tarragon or chervil. Melt some aspic jelly, allow it to get 
half -set, and pour over the decorated turkey, in order to give it a bright appearance. 
Place the turkey on a cold dish, garnish round with chopped aspic jelly and a few 
sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, 18s. to 30s. Time required, 3 to 4 hours to cook. In season, 
September to March. 



1 glass white wine. 
12 small onions, 
salt. 



pepper. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



1,331. CANETON BRAISE AUX NAVETS (BRAISED DUCKLING WITH 

TURNIPS). 

1 duckling. J pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

2 ozs. butter. J pint brown stock. 

3 turnips. 1 bouquet garni (No. 194). 

Truss the duckling. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a stewpan ; put in the onion, 
peeled and cut in shces, the carrot scraped and sliced, and the bouquet garni. Place 
the duckhng on the top, and cook until the bird is nicely browned ; turn it about in 
the pan so that it gets equally coloured all over. Strain away the butter, add the 
wine and stock, put on the lid of the pan, and cook over the fire or in the oven 
until done. Peel the turnips, cut each one in quarters, and shape neatly ; blanch 
in slightly salted water, then drain and fry brown in butter. Peel the twelve small 
onions, blanch them in salted water, and finish cooking in butter. When the duck- 
hng is half-cooked, place it in another saucepan, and put the turnips and onions 
with it. Reduce the braising Uquor, after straining, to half glaze, add the Espagnole 
sauce to it, and boil up. Strain this over the duckling, and finish cooking gently. 
Dish up the bird on a hot dish, sauce over, and arrange the garnish round the dish. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,332. OIE ROTIE, FARCIE (ROAST GOOSE, STUFFED). 
1 goose. 6 large onions. 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sage, j pepper. 



salt. 



2 ozs. butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. I apple sauce (No. 1,036). 

Prepare the goose, wipe it inside with a damp cloth. Peel the onions, boil them 
until soft, chop finely, put with them the powdered sage, breadcrumbs, salt, and 
pepper ; mix all well together, divide the butter into small pieces, and put with the 
other ingredients. Stuff the goose with this, truss it for roasting ; roast or bake 
for about one and a half hours, baste well with dripping. When done, take it up 
and place on a hot dish. Strain off the fat, add some stock to the gravy in the 
pan, boil up, pour round the dish, and send to table with a sauce-tureen of apple 
sauce. 

Average cost, 8d. per pound. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, September 
to February. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,333. CANARD SAUVAGE AU SALADE D'ORANGES (WILD DUCK WITH 

ORANGE SALAD). 
1 wild duck. I butter or dripping. | orange salad. | port-wine sauce (No. 53). 

Draw, singe, and truss the wild duck for roasting. Place the bird before a good 
fire to roast, or put it on a baking-tin and cook in the oven ; baste it well whilst 

25—2 



386 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



cooking with butter or good dripping. When cooked, untruss it, dish up, and serve 
with orange salad and port-wine sauce sent to table separately. 



6 oranges. 

pinch of cayenne. 



Salade D'Oranges (Orange Salad). 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 
1 dessertspoonful brandy. 



J tcaspoonful tarragon 
and chervil. 



J teaspoonful castor- 
sugar. 



Peel the oranges, remove the white pith. Divide the oranges into their natural 
divisions, take away all skin and pips. Arrange these pieces in a salad-bowl, pour over 
•^he salad-oil and brandy ; season with a pinch of cayenne and the sugar. Chop the 
herbs finely, sprinkle over, mix all well together. The salad should be placed on ice 
for some time before serving. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable, August 
to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,334. PERDREAUX BRAISES A LA PERIGUEUX (BRAISED PARTRIDGES, 

PERIGUEUX SAUCE). 



small piece of celery. 
1 bouquet garni. 



thin shoes of larding bacon. 
Perigueux sauce (No. 62). 



J onion. 
1 carrot. 



1 oz. buUcr. 
fried bread. 



2 partridges. 
^ pint stock. 

Draw and truss the partridges. Cut the onion, carrot, and celery into sUces, 
Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the sliced vegetables and the stock. 
Cover each bird with thin shces of larding bacon, tie these on with string. Place 
the partridges on the vegetables in the stewpan, add the bouquet garni, put on the 
hd of the pan, and simmer gently over the fu-e or in the oven until the birds are 
cooked. Cut a thick shce of bread, trim it nicely, and fry a golden-brown in hot fat 
or butter. When the partridges are cooked, take them up, drain, take off the bacon, 
and untruss them ; dish on the croute of fried bread and keep hot. Reduce the 
liquor from the braise, strain it and skim off the fat ; add this reduced liquor to the 
sauce, simmer for a few minutes, then pour it over the partridges, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to February , 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,335. PERDREAUX ROTIS AUX CHAMPIGNONS (ROAST PARTRIDGES 

WITH MUSHROOMS). 



2 partridges. 
IJ ozs. butter. 



ilb 



button mushrooms, 
cayenne. 



mushroom sauce 
(No. 25). 



salt, 
pepper. 



Prepare the partridges for roasting. Melt the butter in a stewpan, peel the mush- 
rooms and put them into the butter. Sprinkle over them a little salt and pepper, 
and, if liked, a very slight dust of cayenne ; simmer for eight to ten minutes, then 
turn them on to a plate with the butter that they were cooked in. As soon aa 
the mushrooms are cold divide them into two parts and stuff the bodies of the 
partridges, sew them up, and truss them for roasting. Put the partridges on a 
baking-tin with butter, and bake in the oven for about half an hour ; baste well 
during the cooking. When done, take up the partridges, untruss them, dress on a 
hot dish, and send to table with the mushroom sauce separately. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, September to- 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,336. FRIED BREADCRUMBS. 
3 ozs. fresh breadcrumbs. | 1| ozs. butter. j salt. | pepper. 
Melt the butter in a small ste^^i^an ; when melted, put in the crumbs, and fry 
them over the fire a fight brown. Stir them all the time they are frying ; drain well 
on paper. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 387 



2 partridges, 
butter. 



watercress. 

bread sauce (No. 13). 



1,337. PERDREAUX ROTIS. 

fried breadcrumbs 
(No. 1,336). 

Draw and truss the partridges for roasting. Put them before a quick fire, and 
roast for about half an hour ; baste them constantly with butter. Instead of 
roasting the birds in front of the fire, they can be baked in a sharp oven ; they wall 
^ake about the same time, and should be well basted while cooking. When the 
partridges are cooked, take them up, untruss them, and place on a hot dish ; garnish 
them with watercress that has been A\'ell washed and picked, and also with fried 
breadcrumbs. Send to table with them a tureen of gravy and one of bread sauce. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
Februarj'^. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



2 partridges, 
salt. 



pepper, 
clarified butter. 



1.338. PERDREAUX A LA CRAPAUDINE (PARTRIDGES, CRAPAUDINE 

STYLE). 

breadcrumbs. 
Italian sauce (No. 41). 

Draw and truss the birds, singe them, cut each down the back, spread them 
open on a board, and wipe the insides with a damp cloth ; beat the birds flat with 
a cutlet-bat, and skewer them so as to keep them flat. Sprinkle over some salt 
and pepper, dip them in melted, clarified butter or salad-oil, then cover w^ll wdth 
breadcrumbs. Sprinkle over a little more butter. Grill over a clear fire ; they 
will take about twenty minutes to cook. After they have been first browned over 
a sharp fire, they should do more slowly for the rest of the time. When done, take 
out the skew'ers and dress the partridges on a hot dish. Send to table with a 
sauce-tureen of Italian sauce. The birds should be a light brown w^hen done. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1.339. PERDREAUX ROTIS A LA PARISIENNE (ROAST PARTRIDGES, 

PARISIAN STYLE). 

2 partridges. 1 gill white wine. a few tomatoes. 1 gill Espagnole sauce 



2 ozs. butter. 



a few slices of bacon. 



J gill stock. (No. 33). 



Clean and truss the partridges for roasting. Cut the bacon in pieces, arrange them 
in a baking-tin ; shce the tomatoes and place them on the bacon , put the partridges 
on the top. Break up the butter into small pieces and put it on the birds ; season 
with a little salt and pepper, and bake in the oven for about half an hour ; baste well 
during the cooking. When done, take up the birds, dress them on a hot dish. Skim 
the gravy, taking off all the fat ; add the wdne and the ^ gill of stock, reduce a little, 
then stir in the sauce, strain into a stewpan, and cook for ten minutes gently. 
Season to taste. Send the partridges to table with the sauce served separately. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, | hour. Seasonable, September to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,340. PERDREAUX FARCIS, SAUCE POIVRADE (STUFFED PARTRIDGES 

WITH POIVRADE SAUCE). 



2 partridges. 
8 game livers, 
larding bacon. 



3 ozs. streaky bacon. 
1^ ozs. breadcrumbs. 
l| tablespoonfuls milk. 



^ teaspoon ful capers, 
fried crouton, 
poivrade sauce (No. 58). 



1 shallot. 

legg. 

salt and pepper. 

Draw and singe the partridges. Put the eight game fivers, after being washed, 
into a stewpan with cold water, and bring to the boil, drain and chop them finely. 
Chop the shallot and the capers, put the breadcrumbs into a basin, pour the milk 
over them, and let them soak for a short time. Chop the streaky bacon, put it into 
a mortar, and pound well, then rub through a wire sieve. Mix this with the bread- 



demi -glace sauce (No. 29). 
2 croutons of fried bread. 



butter, 
salt. 



pepper, 
watercress. 



388 THE IDEAL COOKER): BOOK 

crumbs, add the livers, shallot, and capers ; season with salt and pepper. Beat the 
egg and bind the mixture with it. Stuff the partridges with this mixture, sew up 
and truss them for roasting, cover the breasts with shces of larding bacon, put them 
on a baking-tin with some butter on them, and roast in the oven for thirty minutes. 
When the birds are cooked, dress them on a hot dish, placing them on a crouton of 
fried bread ; garnish with watercress, and serve with the sauce in a tureen separately. 

Average cost, 6s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,341. PIGEONS ROTIS FARCIS AUX MARRONS (ROAST PIGEONS 

STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS). 

2 pigeons. I bacon. 

^ lb. chestnuts. ' stock. 

Draw, singe, and truss the pigeons as for roasting. Slit the chestnuts, put them 
on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in the oven until the outer shell and the inner 
skin can be easily removed, then put them into a stewpan. Cover with stock, and 
boil until the chestnuts are tender. Drain and chop them finely, put into a mortar 
and add to them an equal quantity of chopped bacon, pound well together ; season 
to taste. Stuff the pigeons with this mixture, place a shce of fat bacon over the 
breast of each pigeon, tie it securely with string. Place the birds on a buttered 
baking-tin, and roast in the oven for twenty minutes to half an hour, or if preferred 
they can be roasted in front of a clear fire for the same time. When done, dish each 
bird on a fried crouton of bread, or toast can be used. Finely chop and pound the 
livers of the birds, add to them the gravy from the baking-tin, first carefully removing 
all grease, and about 1 gill of demi-glace sauce ; simmer over the fire for a few minutes. 
Put the birds on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and send to table v/ith the sauce 
served separately. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to 
January. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

1,342. FAISAN ROTI AU CRESSON (ROAST PHEASANT WITH CRESS). 



brown breadcrumbs (No. 1,.336). 
bread sauce (No. 13). 



1 pheasant. crouton of fried bread, 

fat bacon. watercress. 

Choose a young pheasant, hang it in a cold, dry place until the bird has acquired 
a game flavour ; the pheasant will be ready to cook when the feathers at the tail end 
are easily withdrawn. When the bird is ready for cooking, pluck it carefully, remove 
the crop and the inside, singe the body and legs, wipe the pheasant, and truss it 
for roasting. Put a piece of fat bacon over the breast, tie it on with string, place 
the bird on a baking-tin, and bake for thirty to forty minutes ; the bird must be basted 
constantly whilst cooking. Have ready a fried crouton of bread nicely trimmed, 
or a buttered shce of toast. Place the pheasant as soon as cooked on this, arrange 
on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with it fried breadcrumbs, bread 
sauce, and gravy. The bird before dishing should have the bacon removed that was 
tied over the breast. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1 343 FAISAN FARCI AUX CHAMPIGNONS (ROAST PHEASANT STUFFED 

WITH MUSHROOMS). 

salt, 
cayenne. 

Draw and singe the pheasant, lard the breast with thin strips of larding bacon ; 
trim these neatly. Cut the mushrooms in quarters, melt 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the mushrooms, and cook them for a few minutes ; add a little salt and cayenne. 
Turn out on to a plate to cool. When cold, stuff the pheasant with the mushrooma 



1 pheasant. 
3 ozs. butter. 



larding bacon. 
12 mushrooms. 



bread sauce (No. 13). I 1 oz. flour. 
3 gills stock. I 2 shallots. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 389 

and butter. Truss the bird, cover the breast with a piece of well-buttered paper, 
place it on a baking-tin, and bake in the oven for about thirty to forty minutes, 
basting it constantly. Take off the paper, and cook for ten minutes longer, in order 
to brown it. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped shallots, and fry 
until browTi. Chop the Hver of the bird very finely, add this to the fried shallots, also 
tlie flour ; mix these in, and then stir in the stock. Simmer gently for ten to fifteen 
minutes. Add the gravy from the pheasant, and season to taste. Remove any 
grease there may be, and strain. Dish the pheasant on a hot dish, and serve the 
bread sauce and gravy separately. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,344. FAISAN A LA NORMANDE. 

1 pheasant. | 2 ozs. butter. | 6 apples. | 1 gill cream. | salt. | pepper. 

Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
pheasant, and colour it all over a fight brown. Peel the apples, take out the cores, 
cut them in pieces, and toss in butter. Lay the greater part of the apples in a 
casserole, place the pheasant on them, put the rest of the apples round the pheasant, 
pour the cream over ; season very lightly with salt and pepper. Cover the casserole, 
put it in the oven, and cook for twenty to thirty minutes. Serve the pheasant in the 
casserole. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,345. FAISAN A LA CREME. 
1 pheasant. | 1 gill cream. | lemon-juice. | 2 ozs. butter. [ 1 onion. 

Prepare the pheasant. Melt the butter in a ste\vpan, put in the pheasant, and 
fry all over a light brown, with the onion cut in quarters. When the bird is rather 
more than half -cooked, add the cream and a few drops of lemon-juice ; finish cooking 
the pheasant, basting all the time with the cream. When done, take up the pheasant, 
strain the contents of the pan, take off the fat, and serve round the pheasant. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,346. FAISAN A LA BONNE FEMME. 

1 pheasant. 4 ozs. streaky bacon. 2 Spanish onions. 

3 ozs. butter. 1 tablespoonful chutney. salt and pepper. 

Choose a well-hung pheasant, draw and singe it, truss for roasting. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, cut up the bacon into small pieces, put these into the butter. 
Place the pheasant on the top, and fry it over a slow fire until nicely browned all 
over ; then add the chutney and the onions, peeled and cut in thin slices. Cover 
the saucepan with the fid, and simmer gently for about forty-five minutes to one hour. 
Place the pheasant on a hot dish and keep hot. Stir the onions over the fire for a 
few minutes, season with salt and pepper, and garnish round the bird with them. 
Serve at once. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,347. FAISAN BRAISE (BRAISED PHEASANT). 

1 pheasant. j .slices of fat bacon. I 1 onion. salt and pejjper. 

^ pint stock. I 1 bouquet garni. | 1 carrot. 1 lemon. 

Draw, singe, and truss the pheasant. Cut up the bacon into squares, line the 
bottom of a stewpan with these. Slice the onion and carrot, put a layer of these 
over the bacon, add the bouquet garni and the stock, put in the pheasant, cover 



390 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

with the Hd, and cook in the oven until done. When the bird is nearlj^ cooked, take 
off the hd of the saucepan and finish cooking, basting it well. When done, place it 
on a hot dish, strain the hquor from the braise into a small ste'RT)an, skim off the 
fat, reduce a Httle until it is half glaze, pour it over the pheasant, or it can be served 
separately. Garnish the dish with shces of lemon. ^ 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 pheasant. 

2 woodcocks. 



1,348. FAISAN A LA SAINTE-ALLIANCE. 

2 ozs. beef marrow. 1 2 ozs. fat bacon. I savoury herbs. [ cayenne. I salt 
4 ozs. raw truffles. 1 bitter oranges. | sUce of bread. butter. j pepper. 



Draw and singe a well-hung pheasant, truss it for roasting. Bone the woodcocks, 
chop up the fiesh and the intestines, add to these the beef marrow which has been 
poached and allowed to get cold ; chop the fat bacon finely, and add it to the rest of the 
ingredients. Cut the truifies in quarters, and cook them slightly in butter ; add them 
to the chopped woodcocks, etc. Season the preparation with salt and pepper and 
a pinch of savoury herbs. Stuff the pheasant with this mixture, truss it, place on 
a buttered baking-tin, and put it in the oven to cook. Cut a large shce of bread 
from a sandwich loaf, trim neatly, and fry it in clarified butter. Spread this crouton 
with some of the stuffing, kept back for that purpose. When the pheasant is t^yo- 
thirds cooked, place this coated crouton under the bird so that the juices coming 
from the latter may fall on the crouton. When the bird is cooked, dish it on the 
crouton. Garnish the dish with shces of bitter orange, and serve the gravy separ- 
ately. When serving, each piece of pheasant should be accompanied by a piece of 
the coated crouton and a shce of orange. Brillat Savarin, who was the inventor of 
this dish, said that a pheasant prepared in this way was fit for beings better than men. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons 

1,349." FAISAN BOUILLI (BOILED PHEASANT). 



I pheasant. I 1 gill breadcrumbs, 
beaten egg. ' button mushrooms. 



1 tablespoonful beef suet. salt and pepper 

~ " " -- lemon -peel. 



1 pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Draw the pheasant, cut off the head and neck, leaving part of the skin of the neck 
to turn over. Chop the suet finely, mix it with the breadcrumbs ; season -with salt and 
pepper and a pinch of very finely chopped lemon-rind ; bind with beaten egg. Stuff 
the bird with this mixture, folding the skin over and fastening it with a skewer. Have 
ready a saucepan of boiling water, put in the pheasant, and bring to the boil, then 
draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for thirty minutes. Skim it. 
if necessary, while cooking. When done, dish the pheasant on a hot dish, pour the 
Bechamel sauce over, and see that it is nicely coated. Prepare the button mush- 
rooms, cook them in butter, and place them round the dish, arranging them in groups. 
Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to Feb- 
ruary. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,350. COQ DE BRUYERE BRAISE (BRAISED GROUSE). 

1 grouse. J onion. salt. j ^ pint stock. watercress, 

fat bacon. parsley. pepper. | flour. butter. 

Pluck, draw, and singe the grouse, wipe it inside with a damp cloth. Truss it 
and tie into shape. Cut some fat bacon into slices, fine the bottom of a stewpan 
with them. Chop the onion and parsley, place the bird on the bacon, sprinkle over 
the chopped onion and parsley, season with salt and pepper, cover with some more 
slices of bacon ; add the stock. Put on the lid of the pan, place on the side of the 
fire, and cook gently until they are tender. Dish the grouse on a hot dish. Strain 



broad sauce (No. 13). 
gravy. 



1 hare. 


2 tablespoonfuls chopped 


1 pint poivrade sauce 


2 eggs. 


parsley. 


(No. 58). 


larding bacon. 


salt and pepper. 


4 ozs. beef suet. 



RELEVES (REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 391 

the liquor from the braise, skim off the fat. Melt a little butter in a small stewpan. 
add some flour (sufficient to shghtly thicken the gravy), brown it over the fire, add 
the liquor, and stir until it boils ; simmer for a few minutes. Garnish the grouse 
\vith watercress. Send the bird to table with the sauce separately. 

Average cost. 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, August to December. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,351. COQ DE BRUYERE ROTI (ROAST GROUSE). 

1 grouse. toast. I fried breadcrumbs 

butter. watercress. (No. 1,336). 

The grouse should be well hung ; it should be hung for a few days unplucked. 
When the bird is ready to cook, pluck it carefully so as not to injure the skin, then 
draw and singe it. Roast the grouse before a good fire, or put it on a baking-tin 
and cook in the oven ; baste the bird well with butter during the cooking. Grouse 
takes about thirty-five minutes to cook, or rather longer if large. A piece of buttered 
toast is put under the bird if it is cooked in the oven. When the grouse is done, 
take it up, untruss it, put the toast on a hot dish, place the grouse on it, garnish with 
watercress, and serve with it separately bread sauce, fried breadcrumbs, and a 
sauce-tureen of good gravy. 

Average cost, os. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, August to Tecember. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,352. LIEVRE ROTI A LA SEVILLE (ROAST HARE, SEVILLE STYLE). 

1 tablespoonful orange 

marmalade. 
1 oz. breadcrumbs. 

Truss the hare for roasting. Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin with the 
breadcrumbs and parsley ; season with pepper and salt, bind with, the eggs. Stuff 
the hare ^ath this preparation, sew it up, and then place on a baking-tin with a slice 
of larding bacon over the back. Put into a moderate oven, and roast for one and 
a quarter to one and three-quarter hours, according to size, basting frequently. 
Have ready the poivrade sauce, mix into it one tablespoonful of orange marmalade, 
stir this over the fire until melted. Take up the hare, untruss it, and place on a hot 
dish ; pour some of the sauce round the dish, and serve the rest separately in a 
sauce-tureen. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1^ to If hours. Seasonable, August to 
March. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

1,353. LIEVRE PIQUE (LARDED HARE, ROASTED). 
1 hare. | larding bacon. | butter. 

Skin the hare, draw it, and wipe with a dry cloth ; truss the hare for roasting. 
Cut the larding bacon into strips. It is best, before larding the hare, to remove the 
thick bluish skin which is found on the legs, etc. During cooking this skin is apt to 
catch, and spoils the appearance of the dish. Lard the hare, trim the strips of bacon 
closely. Cover with, a buttered paper, and roast it before a clear fire, or place on 
a baking-tin and bake in the oven. A hare will take from one to one and a half 
hours to cook. The hare must be well basted whilst cooking ; this is most essential. 
as hare is inclined to be dry. Ten minutes before the hare is done take off the paper 
in order to brovvTi the bacon. When cooked, take up, place on a hot dish, and untruss 
it. Pour off the fat from the dripping-pan, make the gravy from the essence of the 
hare and some browTi stock, season to taste, and pour it round the dish. Red-currant 
jelly can be served with it. The hare, if liked, can be stuffed with the ordinary veal 
stuffing. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 to U hours. Seasonable, August to 
March. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



392 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,354. rAbLE DE LIEVRE ROTI (ROAST BARON OF HARE). 



1 hare. 


2 ozs. breadcrumbs. 


J teaspoonful savoury 


2 eggs. 


2 or 3 tomatoes. 


2 ozs. suet. 


1 tablespoonful chopped 


herbs. 


larding bacon. 


green gooseberry 


salt. 


parsley. 


pepper. 


watercress. 


sauce (No. 97). 



Skin the hare, clean it, wipe with a dry cloth. Take off the hind legs, the fore 
legs, and the head, leaving the whole of the back — a piece corresponding with the 
saddle in butcher's meat. Remove all the tendons, and lard it finely all over the 
fillets with strips of larding bacon. Chop the suet, parsley, and herbs, mix these 
with the breadcrumbs, add salt and pepper, beat the eggs and bind the stuffing 
with them. Work this mixture into a ball, place it inside the hare, sew it up, and 
truss for roasting. Place before a good fire, keeping it well basted, until cooked, or 
it may be placed on a baking-tin and baked in the oven. It is a good plan to put 
a piece of greased paper over the hare. Remove this ten minutes before taking 
from the fire or oven, in order to brown the larding bacon. Take up when cooked, 
untruss, place on a hot dish, and garnish with watercress and sliced tomatoes. Serve 
with a tureen of gooseberry sauce. 

N.B. — The remains of the hare can be jugged or used for soup 
Average cost, 5s. Time required, 20 to 30 minutes to roast the hare. Season- 
able, August to March. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,355. RAbLE DE LIEVRE A LA CREME (ROAST BARON OF HARE 

WITH CREAM). 

1 hare. | ^ gill stock. | 1 gill sour or thick cream. | lemon-juice. | seasoning. 

Skin the hare, clean it, wipe with a dry cloth. Take off the head, the fore and 
hind legs, leaving the whole of the back ; cut the ribs short, so that the joint is the 
same as the saddle in butcher's meat. Remove the tendons. Put the joint down 
before a good fire, or bake it in the oven. Baste it well whilst cooking. When nearly 
cooked, pour the stock and the cream into the pan, finish cooking the hare, basting 
it with the cream. When the rable is ready, place it on a hot dish, strain the 
liquor in the pan into a clean stewpan, take off the fat, and add a few drops of 
lemon-juice, season to taste, and pour it round the hare. 

N.B. — The legs and trimmings of the hare can be used up for making soup, 
hash, civet, or other dishes. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 30 to 45 minutes. Seasonable, August to 
March. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 



1,356. SELLE DE VENAISON, ROTIE, SAUCE GRANDVENEUR (ROAST 
SADDLE OF VENISON WITH GRANDVENEUR SAUCE). 

small saddle of venison. | larding bacon. | stock. | grandveneur sauce (No. 37). 

Take a small, well-hung saddle of venison, remove the skin, and lard with thin 
pieces of larding bacon. Cover the top of the saddle with neat rows of this larding ; 
tie round several times with string, to keep it a good shape. Place the joint in a 
baking-tin, spread with a Httle butter, and put into a moderate oven to roast for 
two to two and a half hours, according to size. The saddle must be kept well basted, 
adding more butter or dripping if there is not sufficient for the purpose. When done, 
take up the joint, remove the string, and place it on a hot dish. Have ready the 
grandveneur sauce, pour it into a sauce-tureen, and serve separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 2 to 2| hours. Seasonable, June to 
December. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 393 



1,357. 



SELLE DE VENAISON AUX TOMATES (SADDLE OF VENISON WITH 

TOMATOES). 



small saddle of 



venison. 



larding bacon, 
tomatoes. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 

Robert sauce (No. 68). 



Take a small, well-hung saddle of venison, remove the skin, and then cover with 
neat rows of strips of larding bacon. Tie round several times with string to keep 
the joint in shape. Clean and slice the onion and carrot, place a layer of them at 
the bottom of a baking-tin, place the saddle on the top, and spread with half the 
butter. Place in a moderate oven, and roast for two to two and a half hours, 
according to size, keeping the joint well basted all the time. Shce the tomatoes 
rather thickly, place them on a buttered tin, season wdth salt and pepper, and cook 
shghtly in the oven, taking care that they do not go to pieces. Take up the saddle, 
remove the string, and place on a hot dish ; garnish round the joint with groups of 
the cooked tomatoes. 

1,358. PINTADE ROTIE AU CRESSON (ROAST GUINEA-FOWL WITH 

CRESS). 



1 guinea-fowl, 
watercress. 



thin slices of bacon, 
bread sauce (No. 13). 



fried breadcrumbs 
(No. 1,336). 



butter, 
gravy. 



Draw and singe the guinea-fowl, and truss it for roasting. Tie some thin sUces 
of fat bacon over the breast ; roast it in front of a good fire, or place it on a baking- 
tin, and put in the oven ; it wiU take half an hour or longer to cook, according to the 
size. Baste well with butter during the cooking. When done, take it up, untruss it, 
and place on a hot dish ; garnish with picked and well-washed watercress. Send to 
table with fried breadcrumbs and a tureen of bread-sauce, and one of gravy. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to May 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,359. ORTOLANS. 

Kck, singe, remove the crops ; the trail is left in them. Truss them for roasting ; 
wrap each in a vine-leaf, and cover with a square of fat bacon ; tie with string, and 
put them down before a brisk fire, or put on a baking-tin in the oven, and cook for 
eight to ten minutes, basting constantly. When cooked, take out the skewers used 
in the trussing, leave the vine-leaf and bacon on ; dish each bird on a fried crouton of 
bread ; dish up and garnish with watercress ; serve gravy and brown breadcrumbs 
separately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, May and 
June. Sufficient, one for each person. 



1,360. MAUVIETTES PANEES (LARKS CRUMBED AND ROASTED). 



6 larks. 


brown breadcrumbs. 


1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. 


potato chips. 


toast. 


legg. 


1 dessertspoonful 


1 dessertspoonful bread- 


1 shallot. 


salt. 


butter. 


chopped parsley. 


crumbs. 


2 or 3 mushrooms. 


pepper 



Chop the shallot finely ; put 2 ounces of butter into a mortar, work in the shallot, 
parsley, hard-boiled yolk of egg, the chopped mushrooms, one dessertspoonful of 
breadcrumbs, and salt and pepper, mix all thoroughly together. Pick, clean, and 
singe the larks, leaving the trail in, all but the gizzard ; put in each a piece of the 
above stuffing. Pass a thin skewer through the body to truss them, cut off the feet, 
brush over with melted butter, dip in beaten egg, and roll in brown breadcrumbs ; 
roast them in front of the fire, or in the oven, for eight or ten minutes, basting well 
all the time. Toast some bread, butter it, and divide into six square pieces, one for 
each bird ; arrange these on a baking-tin under the larks, so that they may catch 



39i 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



the drippings from the birds. When cooked, take them up, untruss them by 
removing the skewer, place each bird on a piece of toast, and arrange them in a 
circle on a hot dish ; place the fried potato-chips in the centre, and serve very hot. 
Average cost, 2s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, August to March 1. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,361. MAUVIETTES ROTIES (ROAST LARKS). 



6 larks, 
butter. 



larding bacon. 

toast. 



brown breadcrumbs 
(No. 1,336). 



watercress. 
1 lemon. 



Pick, clean, and singe the larks ; the trail may be left in, but remove the gizzard. 
Pass a thin skewer through the bodies to truss them, cut off the feet, brush over 
with melted butter, and cover each breast with a piece of larding bacon. Roast 
the birds before the fire, or in the oven, for eight or ten minutes ; keep them well 
basted with butter while cooking. Have some toast ready ; butter it, and cut it 
in square pieces, one for each bird ; arrange these on a baking-tin under the larks 
in order to catch the drippings from the birds. When they are cooked, take them 
up, untruss them by removing the skewer, place each bird on a piece of toast, and 
arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; fill the centre with fried breadcrumbs, and 
garnish with watercress and quarters of lemon. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, August to 
March 1. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,362. PINTADE PIQUE A LA FINANCI£RE (LARDED GUINEA-FOWL 

WITH FINANCIERE GARNISH). 



1 guinea-fowl. 


salt. 


financiere garnish (No. 223). 


1 carrot. 


larding bacon. 


pepper. 


1 lb. quenelle forcemeat (No. 


2- pint stock 


\ pint white wine. 


1 onion. 


201). 


1 truffle. 



Pluck, draw, and singe a guinea-fowl ; lift the breast-bone, removing the fillets ; 
stuff the body with quenelle forcemeat, replace the fillets, and put back the bird to 
its original shape. Cut some larding bacon in thin strips ; lard the fiillets and legs 
with them ; truss the bird before larding. Cut some fat bacon in thin pieces, line a 
stewpan with them, slice the onion and carrot, and place a layer over the bacon ; 
put in the bird, add the wine and stock, place the pan on the fire, keeping on the 
lid, and bring to the boil, then draw to one side, and simmer until the bird is cooked. 
Dish up the guinea-fowl, strain the stock, take off the fat, and reduce to glaze ; brush 
over the fowl with this. Put the guinea-fowl in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the 
financiere garnish round. Have ready an attelette decorated with a truffle and a 
cockscomb, pass this through the breast of the bird, and serve. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, li hours. Seasonable, March to May. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



1,363. ROAST BLACK COCK. 

1 black cock. | butter. | toast. | gravy. | bread sauce (No. 13). 

Take a black cock that has been well hung, or the bird will be dry and tasteless. 
Pick and draw the bird, but do not wash it ; truss in the usual way. Place in front of 
a clear fire, or in a moderate oven, placing some butter on the breast. Cook rather 
quickly for about forty-five minutes, basting it well with butter. About ten minutes 
before serving place a piece of toast in the dripping-tin under the bird. Take up 
the black cock, untruss it, and dress on the piece of toast on a hot dish. Serve a good 
gravy and also bread sauce in separate sauce-tureens. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 9d. each. Time required, forty-five minutes. 
Seasone-ble, September to December. Sufficient for 2 persons. 



RELEVES {REMOVES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME) 395 

1,364. ROAST CAPERCAILZIE. 

1 capercailzie. | butter or dripping. | bread sauce (No. 13). | fried breadcrumbs (No. 1,336). 

Truss the capercailzie, place in a baking-tin or in front of the lire, covering the 
breast with plenty of butter or dripping. Cook rather quickly at first, and then 
remove to a cooler place, keeping the bird very well basted all the time. It will take 
from one to one and a half hours according to size. Take it up, untruss, and place 
on a hot dish, surrounded with fried breadcrumbs, and serve bread sauce and some 
good gravy separately. 

Average cost, from 3s. Time required, 1 to li hours. Seasonable, October 
to March. Sufficient for 6 to 10 persons, according to size. 

1,365. PETITS POUSSINS ROUS (ROASTED CHICKS). 

2 or more petits poussins. | watercress, j butter or dripping. | gravy. | bread sauce (No. 13). 

Clean and truss the petits poussins in the same way as for other poultry. Place 
them in front of a clear fire, or in a moderate oven, and cook quickly, basting fre- 
quently with butter or dripping. They will take about twenty minutes to roast. 
Take them up, untruss and place on a hot dish, garnish round with watercress, and 
serve with gravy and bread sauce separately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. or Is. 9d. each. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, 
April to September. Sufficient for 2 persons. 



2 onions. 
2 carrots. 



1 turnip. 

2 cloves. 



1,366. TETE DE VEAU A L'ANGLAISE (BOILED CALF'S HEAD). 

1 calf's head. j parsley sauce (No. 61). 
piece of celery. ) bouquet garni. 

Soak the head in salted water for a few hours, then, with a small, sharp knife, bone 
the head, remove the brains. Roll the head into the shape of a galantine, place it in a 
cloth, and tie it with string, so as to keep it a good shape ; put it in a saucepan of 
cold water sufficient to cover the head, add a teaspoonf ul of salt ; bring to the boil, skim 
well, and add the vegetables, prepared and cleaned, the bouquet garni, the cloves, 
and a few peppercorns ; put on the lid of the saucepan, and allow it to boil gently 
for three or four hours, according to the size of the head. When done, take it up, 
untie it, remove the cloth, and dress the head on a hot dish ; have ready some parsley 
sauce. Blanch the brains, cut them in dice, or chop, and put them into the sauce ; 
pour this over the head. Skin the tongue, and place on one side of the head. Serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, 6s. Time required, 3 or 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. 



CHAPTER XVII 

COLD MEAT COOKERY 



1,367. SAVOURY HASH. 



1 lb. cold meat. 
a few mushrooms. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1|^ ozs. flour. 



1 pint stock. 

2 onions. 



1 carrot. 
J turnip. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Wash and scrape the carrot, peel the turnip, and cut them into dice ; boil each 
of these separately in slightly salted water until tender. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan ; peel and slice the onions, fry them in the butter a nice brown colour. Cut 
the meat in neat slices, remove any skin, gristle, or fat ; dip the slices in the flour ; 
put them with the onion, and brown slightly. Stir in the remainder of the flour, 
add the stock ; stir until boihng ; season with salt and pepper. Strain the water 
from the vegetables, and add them to the meat ; prepare a few mushrooms, cook 
them, and then add to the hash. Let all simmer very gently for a few minutes, 
taking care not to allow it to boil. Serve on a hot dish, with the vegetables piled 
up high in the centre. 

Average cost, without meat, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,368. WINCHESTER CUTLETS. 

^ lb. cooked meat. 

cayenne. 

1 oz. butter. 



J lb. breadcrumbs. 



pepper. 

salt. 
2 eggs. 

Melt the butter in a 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
a httle mushroom ketchup. 

Remove skin and gristle from the meat ; mince it finely 
stewpan ; stir in the minced meat, breadcrumbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and cayenne : 
mix all well together. Beat one egg well, add to the rest of the ingredients also a 
little mushroom ketchup ; work into a stiff paste ; turn on to a plate to cool. Divide 
the mixture into equal parts ; shape each part into small cutlets, dip in beaten egg, 
breadcrumb them, and fry in very hot fat. Dish in a circle on a hot dish, and 
garnish the centre with fried parsley. 

Average cost, without meat, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 

1,369. 

i lb. lentils. I little stock. 

J lb. cold meat. | fried parsley (No. 

Soak the lentils for twelve hours, then boil until soft. Boil the onion, and chop 
it finely. Mince the meat. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the meat, lentils, 
and onion ; season with salt and a pinch of cayenne ; add sufficient stock to make the 
mixture into a paste. Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When cold, divide 
into equal portions, and make each portion into the shape of a cutlet. Egg and 
breadcrumb them, and fry in boihng fat a golden brown. Dish them in a circle, 
and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, without meat, 3d. Time required, IJ to 2 hours. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 10 or 12 cutlets. 

396 



LENTIL 


CUTLETS. 








1 oz. butter. 


1 onion. 


salt. 


^o. 195). 


breadcrumbs. 


cayenne. 


legg. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 397 



1,370. WESTPHALIA BALLS. 

i lb. potatoes. | a little cream or milk. j 1 oz. butter. 

2 ozs. chopped ham. | fried parsley (No. 195). | breadcrumbs. 



cayenne, 
frying-fat. 



salt. 
2 eggs, 



Boil the potatoes ; dry them well ; let them cool, then pass them through a wire 
sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the potatoes, add the ham, cayenne, and 
salt, beat up one egg, and stir it into the dry ingredients in the stewpan. If the 
mixture is not quite moist enough, add a httle cream or milk. Turn out on to a 
plate to cool. When cold, form into small balls ; egg and breadcrumb them, and 
fry a golden brown in boiling fat. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 balls. 

1.371. MEAT PANCAKES. 

J lb. flour. 1 egg. I 1 small onion. ^ lb. cold meat, 

dripping. I pint milk. | 1 oz. butter. salt and pepper. 

Sieve the flour into a basin with a pinch of salt ; break in the egg, and mix in by 
d#*grees 1 gill of milk. Beat this mixture for fifteen minutes, then stir in the rest 
of the milk, and, when possible, put the batter aside for an hour or so, as this adds 
greatly to its lightness, by allowing the air to dissolve into it. Peel and chop the 
onion very finely ; melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, and fry until a 
golden brown. Cut the cold meat up into small dice, taking away all fat and 
gristle ; put it into the onion, and season well with pepper and salt. When the 
batter is ready, stir the cold meat preparation into it. Have some dripping melted 
in a saucepan ; pour a little of this into a frjring-pan ; when hot, pour in a table- 
spoonful of the meat and batter ; tip the frying-pan shghtly, in order to keep the 
pancakes a good shape. When brown on one side, turn over carefully with a fish- 
shce or broad knife ; cook this side also, and then take up and place on a hot dish. 
Continue in this way until the batter is finished. The pancakes, when cooked, 
should be half-moon shaped. Dish up on a hot dish, overlapping one another. 
Serve very hot, and immediately, as they spoil if kept waiting. 

Average cost, 4d., without the cold meat. Time required, 30 minutes, if batter 
is used immediately. In season all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1.372. MEAT FRITTERS. 

^ lb. cold meat. 1 tablespoonful milk. |oz. butter. I ^ gill stock or water. I 1 onion, 

fried parsley. 1 tablespoonful salad-oil. 2J ozs. flour. | salt and pepper. ' 2 eggs. 

Remove all fat and gristle from the meat, and then pass through a fine mincing 
machine. Chop the onion finely ; melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the onion 
in it until a golden-bro"v^Ti colour. IMix in J oz. flour ; moisten with the stock or 
water, and stir over the fire until the mixture is very thick and leaves the sides of 
the pan clean. Add the minced meat to this panada ; season with pepper and sa't, 
and stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Turn out on to a plate, and allow it 
to cool. Sieve the remaining flour into a basin ; break in 2 yolks of eggs ; add the 
milk, salad-oil, and seasoning. Stir this mixture until perfectly smooth, then beat 
for five minutes. WTiip the two whites of eggs very stiffly, and stir into the batter 
very lightly just before using. Shape the cold meat mixture into small cork shapes ; 
dip each into the batter, taldng care not to coat them too thickly with it. As each 
piece of meat is dipped in the batter, drop it into a pan of very hot fat. Fry them 
until a golden-brown colour ; take them up, drain well, and arrange in a pile on a hoc 
dish on a dish-paper. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5d., exclusive of cold meat. Time required, 45 minutes. In 
season all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



308 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,373. GAME FRITTERS. 



I lb. cold game. 
6 mushrooms. 



2 shallots, 
lemon -rind. 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 eggs, 
frying-battcr. 



fried parsley. 
1 oz. butter. 



Free the game from skin and bone ; chop it finely ; chop the shallots, fry them 
in the butter, then add the minced mushrooms ; cook a few minutes, then add 
the game, salt, pepper, and a little lemon-rind ; bind the mixture with the beaten 
e':cfs, to form a paste. Shape this paste into balls or cork shapes, dip in batter, 
aVid fry in boiling fat a golden-brown. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 6d., without game. Time required, 30 minutes. Season;il)l(', 
An crust to February. Sufficient for 8 or 10 fritters. 



\ lb. cold meat. 
2 ozs. dripping. 



1,374. CURRY OF COLD MEAT. 

salt. I apple. 1 tablespoonful curry- 

2 onions. pepper. powder. 



a little stock or water, 
boiled rice (No. 1,039). 



Cut the meat into dice ; chop the onions finely ; melt the dripping in a stew- 
pan, put in the onions, and fry them a dark brown ; sprinkle the curry-powder over 
the meat, mix well together ; put this with the onion in the stewpan, fry over the 
fire until the curry-powder sticks round the meat ; then add by degrees some stock 
or water — just enough to cook the curry. Peel and core the apple, chop it finely, 
and add it to the curry ; let all simmer together very gently for half an hour, season 
to taste with pepper and salt. Have ready some rice nicely boiled and dried. 
Dish the curry neatly on a hot dish, and serve with the rice in a separate dish. 

Average cost, 5d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



8 slices cold meat. 
1 lb. potatoes. 
2i ozs. butter. 



1,375. CANNES CUTLETS 

1 teaspoonful chopped 

parsley, 
breadcrumbs. 



frying-fat. 1 egg. 

fried parsley. salt, 

milk. pepper. 

Cut the slices of meat \ inch thick ; shape them like cutlets. Melt 2 ozs. of butter, 
chop the parsley finely, put it on a plate ; add the melted butter, and mix together. 
Season the slices of meat with salt and pepper, and dip them into the melted butter. 
Have the potatoes ready boiled, or cold potatoes left over from a previous meal may 
be used, mash over the fire ; add to them | oz. of butter, turn on to a plate, and 
let cool. Cover the meat on both sides with a thick layer of mashed potatoes. 
Shape the edges neatly with a knife dipped in hot milk. Beat up the egg on a 
plate ; put the cutlets into it one at a time ; brush them over, and then toss in bread- 
crumbs. Fry in a frying-basket in very hot fat. Drain on paper ; arrange on a dish- 
paper on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 6d., without meat. Time required, 40 minutes, if potatoes have 
to be cooked ; 20 minutes in the other case. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
8 cutlets. 



J lb. cold meat. 
1 pint stock. 
breadcrumbs. 



1,376. RICE CUTLETS. 

teasjioonful chopped parsley. 



J lb. rice. 
1 oz. butter, 
pepper. 



salt. 
1 onion, 
legg. 



\ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
fried parsley (No. 195). 

Chop the onion finely ; melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the onion, and fry 
it without browning ; add the rice ; fry a little ; then stir in the stock ; boil until the 
rice is tender and has absorbed the stock, adding a little more stock if necessary. 
When done, add to it the minced meat, chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; mix all 
together thoroughly over the fire. Turn the mixture on to a plate and let it get 
cold. Divide this preparation into equal portions — eight or ten — make up these 
portions into cutlet shapes. Beat up the egg on a plate, dip in each cutlet, then 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



399 



toss in breadcrumbs ; fry in very hot fat a golden brown. Drain on paper ; dish up 
in a circle ; garnish the centre \^ath fried parsley, and send to table with the brown 
sauce separately. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 8 or 10 cutlets. 



^ lb. cold meat. 
J lb. cold potatoes. 
I small onion. 



1,377. DURHAM CUTLETS. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 
clarified fat (No. 197). 



1 oz. butter. 


salt. 


breadcrumbs. 


pepper 


macaroni. 


legg. 



Take away gristle, skin, and most of the fat from I lb. of beef or mutton. Mince 
it finely, or pass it through a mincing-machine. Chop the onion, melt the butter 
in a stew^an, put in the onion, and fry it a golden brown. Pass the potatoes 
through a wire sieve ; add them and the minced meat to the fried onion, mix in the 
chopped parsley ; season to taste with pepper and salt, stir all well together until 




Fig. 8S. — Dukham Cutlets. 



hot and well mixed. Turn this preparation on to a plate ; spread it out to cool. 
When cold, divide the mixture into six or eight equal parts. Make each part up 
into the shape of a cutlet, dip in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs ; repeat this so 
that they may be a golden colour. Fry in smoking fat a nice brown ; drain on 
paper. Insert at the end of each cutlet a small piece of raw macaroni, to represent 
the bone of the cutlet. Dish in a circle, the cutlets overlapping each other ; fill the 
centre with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3d., without the meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 6 or 8 cutlets. 



\ lb. flour. 

% lb. cold meat. 



salt and pepper, 
chopped parsley. 



1,378. PATTIES OF COLD MEAT. 

4 ozs. dripping or butter, 
marjoram and thyme. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the dripping or butter, add a little salt, mix 

into a stiff paste with cold water. Turn the pastry on to a floured board, and roll 

it out \ inch thick. Grease six or eight patty-pans. Cut out six or eight rounds 

with a round pastry-cutter, a size larger than the patty-pans ; put these on one 

side for the tops of the patties. After this is done, roU out the trimmings of the 

PT. VI. 26 



iOO 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



pastry, and cut out the pieces for the bottoms with the same cutter ; hne the patty< 
pans with these. Cut up the cold meat into dice, season with salt and pepper, add 
a small quantity of the chopped herbs ; fill the pattj^-pans, moisten each with a few 
drops of stock, cover with the lids, press the edges together, make a hole in the 
centre, and bake until the pastry is a nice colour. Dish up, and garnish with fresh 
parsley. 

Average cost, 4d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 6 or 8 patties. 

1,379. MEAT CROQUETTES. 



J lb. cold meat. 


^ gill stock. 


1 teaspoonful chopped 


salt. 


J oz. butter. 


breadcrumbs. 


parsley. 


pepper 


\ oz. flour. 


fried parsley. 


slice of onion. 


legg. 



Cut up the meat, take away all skin, fat, and gristle, chop the meat finely, or pass 
it through a mincing-machine. Chop the onion. Melt the butter in a ste\vpan, 
put in the onion, and fry it a golden brown ; then add the flour, cook a httle, mix 
in the stock, stir until it boils. Cook until the sauce is thick and leaves the sides of 




Fig. 89. — Msat Croquettes. 



the pan. Mix in the minced meat, the chopped parsley ; salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir all well together until thoroughly mixed and hot. Turn on to a plate, spread it 
out, and let cool. Divide the mixture when cold into eight equal parts. Shape 
them into balls or cork-shapes, taking care to make them all the same size and 
shape. Beat an egg on a plate, dip the croquettes into it, brush over well, so that 
they are thoroughly coated, then toss in breadcrumbs. If the croquettes aro 
made with dark meat, such as beef or mutton, it is best to egg and crumb them 
a second time, so as to insure their being a pretty golden colour when fried. Have 
ready some very hot clarified fat (No. 197) in a stewpan, put the croquettes into a 
frjdng-basket, plunge it into the fat (this should be deep enough to cover the 
croquettes), and fry until a golden brown. Take up, drain, turn out on to kitchen- 
paper, in order to remove any fat that may be chnging to them. Dress them in a 
pile on a dish-paper, placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 
A sauce-tureen of tomato, brown, or piquante sauce sent to table with them is 
an improvement. 

Average cost, without meat, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 8 croquettes. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 401 



1,380. A TASTY PIE. 



I lb. cold meat. 
1 lb. tomatoes. 



J pint stock. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1^ lbs. potatoes. 

\ lb. dripping or butter. ^ lb. flour. 

Cut the meat in slices ; remove skin, fat, and gristle. Slice the boiled potatoes 
in slices, about ^ inch in thickness ; also the tomatoes. Arrange a layer of potatoes 
at the bottom of a lightly greased pie-dish ; season with salt and pepper. Next, put 
a layer of tomato slices, then seasoning, on this the shces of meat. Continue in 
this way until the dish is full. Pour the stock over ; the meat should be just covered. 
Put the flour into a basin with a pinch of salt, add the dripping or butter, break 
it up into small pieces in the flour, then rub it in until it looks like breadcrumbs. 
Add sufficient water to make it into a stiff paste. Turn it on to a floured board ; roll 
out ; cut some strips of the paste to go round the edge of the dish, wet it hghtly with 
the fingers ; place on the rest of the pastry, to form a cover, press the edges together, 
and decorate round the edge. Cut some leaves of pastry ; make a slit in the centre 
of the pie, and place the leaves round ; make a pastry-rose for the centre. Place 
in the oven and bake until the crust is done. Serve hot. 

Average cost, without meat. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 



4 ozs. rice. 


1 egg- 


salt. 


pepper. 


1 onion. 


\ lb. meat 



I oz. flour. 
\ gill stock. 
fried parsley. 



1,381. CASSOLETTES OF RICE. 

IJ ozs. butter. 

breadcrumbs. 

1 pint white stock. 

Chop the onion, melt 1 oz, of butter in a stewpan, put in three parts of the 
shopped onion, fry without browning ; then add the rice, fry a Uttle, stir in the 
pint of stock, and cook until the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock. A 
little more stock may be necessary. Season it nicely with salt and pepper ; turn 
it into a saute-pan or cake-tin, place a piece of greased paper on the top, and press 
until cold. IVIince the meat (any kind) ; melt the J oz. of butter in a small stew- 
pan, frj^ the remainder of the onion a hght brown, stir in the flour, add the | gill 
of stock, and cook until thick ; stir in the meat, and make thoroughly hot. Now 
€ut out with a round pastry-cutter some patty cases from the rice, egg and bread- 
crumb them, and then with a smaller cutter mark the hd. Fry in very hot fat 
until a golden brown ; drain, Hft the lid, scoop out the centre, and fill the cases with 
the meat mixture. Replace the hd, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 6 cassolettes. 



1,382. DRESDEN PATTIES. 



J lb. cold meat. 
a little milk. 
J oz. butter. 



breadcrumbs, 
fried parsley, 
slices of stale bread. 



pepper. 

legg. 
salt. 



J oz. flour. 
\ gill stock. 
I small onion. 

Cut some sUces of bread, about 2 inches tliick, stamp out into rounds with a 
•cutter, 2 inches in diameter ; mark the top of each with a smaller cutter, and scoop 
out the inside, taking care to leave a piece at the bottom of each case. Cut out a 
hd for each patty case with the smaller cutter. Put a httle milk into a basin, dip 
the cases and the lids into it, then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a golden 
colour in hot fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop the onion, fry it in the butter 
until a hght brown ; mix in the flour, add the stock, and stir until it boils. jVIince 
the meat, add it to the sauce, mix over the fire until quite hot, season with salt 
and pepper, and fill the cases, letting the meat stand above the case. Put a hd 
•on each, dish up, and garnish the dish ^\^th fried parsley. Serv^e hot. 

Average cost, \nthout meat, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
•always. Sufficient for 8 or 10 patties. 

26—2 



402 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ lb. cold veal. 
2 ozs. cooked ham. 
1 whole egg. 
1 yolk of egg. 



1 teaspoonful chopped 

parsley, 
clarified fat (No. 197). 
1 oz. butter. 



J gill stock, 
salt. 
pepper, 
breadcrumbs. 



1,383. VEAL BALLS. 

h tablespoonful mixed herbs. 
I teaspoonful lemon -rind, 
i dessertspoonful flour, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 

Cut away all gristle and skin from the veal, mince it finely, or pass it through a 
mincing machine. Prepare the ham in the same way. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, mix in the flour, add the stock, and stir until thick. Mix in the veal and 
ham, add the chopped parsley, mixed herbs, the finely-grated lemon-rind, salt 
and pepper, bind with the yolk of egg, and turn the mixture on to a plate to 
cool. When cold, divide into equal parts, roll each into a ball, taking care that 
they are all the same size, egg and breadcrumb them once, and fry \\\ smoldng 
clarified fat a golden brown. Take up, drain on paper, dish on a hot dish, and 
garnish with fried parsley. A suitable sauce served with these is an improvement. 

Average cost, Cd., without the meat or ham. Time required, 30 minutes. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 8 balls. 




Fig. 90. — Veal Balls. 



1,384. SHEPHERD'S PIE. 



I lb. cold meat. 

1^ lbs. cold potatoes. 



I small onion. | a Httle flour. salt. 

I I ozs. dripping. | gra\'y. pepper. 

This pie can be made with cold potatoes left over from a previous meal, but 
if there are none of these, fresh potatoes must be boiled for the purpose. Cut up 
the meat into small dice, sprinkle the meat with a little flour. Chop the onion 
finely, melt the dripping in a stewpan, fry the onion a light brown, stir in the meat, 
add sufficient gravy, and season nicely with salt and pepper ; stir the mixture 
well until thoroughly hot, and simmer gently for five minutes. Turn into a pie- 
dish, cover with mashed potato, smooth it neatly, and then mark it with a fork. 
Place the pie in the oven to brown the potato, or under a salamander. Do not 
on any account allow the pie to stay in the oven long, or the gravy will dry up, 
and the pie will be dry. If onion is not hked for flavouring, parsley or a small 
quantity of sweet herbs can be used instead. Dish the pie as soon as ready, and 
serve very hot. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always- 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



403 



1,385. POTATO TURNOVERS. 



J lb. cold boiled 
potatoes. 



a little chopped pickle. 
J lb. cold meat. 



1 or 2 eggs, 
breadcrumbs. 



a little flour, 
cayenne. 



I pepper. 
I salt. 



Mince the meat finely, season it liigUy with salt, cayenne, and pepper. Mash 
the potatoes, or put them through a sieve. Add enough flour and egg to make 
them into a paste, season nicely with salt and pepper. Roll out this paste ; cut 
into rounds about the size of a saucer. Put a little of the mince in the centre of 
each round, fold over, press the edges together ; dip them in beaten egg, toss in 
breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat until a golden browTi. Garnish vnth. fried 
jiarsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d., without meat. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at 
all limes. Sufficient for 8 or 9 turnovers. 




Fig. 91. — Cassolettes of Potato. 



1,336. CASSOLETTES OF POTATO. 



1 lb. potatoes. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 yolk of egg. 



pepper. 

salt. 

breadcrumbs. 



fried parsley. 

\ lb. cooked chicken. 

1 oz. cooked ham. 



I whole egg. 

1 teaspoonful chopised parsby. 

^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Cook the potatoes — or potatoes left over can be used — let them get cold, then 
nib through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the potatoes, stir until 
hot, add the yolk of one egg, the chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Turn the 
mixture on to a plate to cool. Divide into about eight equal portions, make each 
into a ball, then flatten into the shape of patty cases. Beat the whole egg and 
the white of the other on a plate, dip the cases into this, toss in breadcrumbs, and 
then mark the centre of each patty with a small pastry-cutter. Fry them a golden 
brown in very hot fat, take up and drain, lift off the lid, and scoop out the soft 
inside. Before frying the cases, prepare the meat. Mince the chicken and ham, 
put into a stewpan, season to taste, and add sufficient sauce to bind the mixture. 
Keep this preparation hot in the stewpan while the cases are being fried and pre- 
pared ; fill the latter with the meat, put on the lid, dish up, and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

N.B. — Any kind of meat or game can be used instead of the chicken. 

Average cost, 8d., exclusive of chicken. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 8 cassolettes. 



404 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,387. SNACKS. 



a little brown or 
tomato sauce, 
fried parsley. 



3 ozs. rice. I \ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 2 eggs. 

1 pint brown stock. ! | onion. i IJ ozs. butter. 

salt. ! p3pper. I 3 ozs. cold meat. 

Chop the onion, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion, and 
fry it hghtly without browning ; then add the rice, and fry until brown, stirring 
it all the time ; then add the stock, boil until the rice is tender and has absorbed 
the stock ; then add the | gill of tomato sauce, season with salt and pepper, cook 
again for a few minutes. Let this mixture cool for a minute ; then add the yolks 
of the eggs, stir over the fire again to bind the eggs. Turn the mixture out on to 
a plate to cool. Sprinkle a board and hands viith flour, divide the rice into equal 
parts, shape each of these portions into round balls. Have ready the cold meat 
chopped, mix with it a very little brown or tomato sauce, just sufficient to bind, 
season it with salt and pepper. After the rice balls are made, make a hole in the 
centre of each, and put into the hollow some of the prepared meat ; work the rice 
over so as to close up the opening. Beat the whites of the eggs on a plate, dip the 
balls in it, then toss in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. Drain, 
dish up, and serve with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 8d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 45 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,388. SURPRISE POTATOES. 

4 large potatoes. | 1 lb. cold meat. | 3 mushrooms. | 2 ozs. butter. 

Peel the mushrooms, chop them coarsely, and cook in a saucepan in 1 oz. of 
butter. Cut the meat into small pieces, add them to the mushrooms, season with 
pepper and salt, and heat thoroughly. Choose four large even-sized potatoes, 
wash them thoroughly, dry in a cloth ; make a small incision in each, place in a 
moderate oven, and bake until soft. This will take about one hour. Cut each 
potato in half lengthways, scoop out most of the centre, and rub through a wire 
sieve. Season with pepper and salt, and mix in 1 oz. of butter ; replace some of 
this puree in the potato skins, leaving a hollow in each. Fill this centre cavity 
with the meat preparation. Place the halves of potato together again, and put 
in the oven for a few minutes to reheat. Serve on a dish-paper or folded napkin. 

Average cost, 5d., exclusive of meat. Time required, I5 hours. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,389. MEAT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

1 lb. cold potatoes. brown sauce I IJ ozs. butter. I 1 oz. flour. I 1 egg. 

2 yolks of eggs. (No. 6). I \ lb. cold meat. 1 1 onion. | salt. 

Rub the potatoes through a fine wire sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, 
add the potatoes, flour, salt, and two yolks of eggs. Stir over the fire until 
thoroughly mixed. Turn out on to a floured board, roll out about ^ inch thick, 
and cut into rounds 2 inches across. Peel and chop the onion finely, melt i oz. of 
butter in a saucepan, and fry the onion in it until a golden brown. Cut the cold 
meat into very small pieces, removing all fat and gristle. Put the meat into the 
saucepan containing the fried onion, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with a little brown sauce. Place a spoonful of this mixture in the centre 
of half the rounds of potato, wet round the edges with a little water, place another 
round of potato on the top of each, and press together hghtly. Beat up an egg, 
and brush over the top of each croquette with it. Place them on a floured tin, 
and bake in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 minutes. Dish up in a pile, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



405 



1,390. MEAT AND ONION DUMPLINGS. 

\ lb. flour. i \ lb. cold meat. j 3 largo Spanish onions. 

} lb. beef suet. j browTi sauce (No. 6). I 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. 

Peel the onions, place them in a pan of boihng salted water, and simmer gently 
for 5 to 10 minutes. Take them up and allow them to cool ; then remove some of 
the centre of each onion, taking care not to break the outer casing. Cut the meat 
into very small dice, taking away all fat and gristle, put it into a saucepan with 
the chopped parsley and enough brown sauce to bind the mixture. Season to 
taste with pepper and salt, and then fill the cavity in each onion with this prepara- 
tion. Sieve the flour into a basin vnt\\ a pinch of salt ; chop the suet Yevy finely, 
removing all the skin. Add this to the flour, mix thoroughly, and then moisten 
with sufficient water to make it into a stiff dough. Divide it into three portions, 
roll them out, and wrap one piece round each stuffed onion, so as to entirely enclose 
it. Take three small pudding-cloths, dip them in boiling water, dredge them 
thickly with flour, and then tie one dumpling in each cloth. Place them in a pan 
of boihng water, and let them boil steadily for 2h hours. Take them up, remove 
the cloths, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of cold meat. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable, 
October to March, Sufficient for 3 persons. 




Fig, 92. — Eissoles of Cold Meat. 



1,391. RISSOLES OF COLD MEAT. 



\ lb. cold meat, 
salt and pepper. 



\ gill stock. 1 teaspoonful chopped | 2 ozs. butter. ( fried parsley. I J oz. flour. 
4 ozs. flour. parsley. | breadcrumbs. I J oz. butter. I 1 egg. 

Mince the meat finely, put h oz. of butter in a ste\v7)an, melt it, and then stir 
in the flour ; add the stock, and boil until thick. Mix the meat into this, season 
to taste with salt and pepper, and add the parsley. Turn on to a plate to cool. 
Sieve the 4 ozs. of flour into a basin, rub in the butter, add sufficient water to make 
it into a stiff paste. Turn the pastry on to a floured board, roll it out tliinly, 
cut out some rounds with a pastry-cutter 2 to 2i inches in diameter. Put a small 
quantity of the meat on each round, wet the edges, fold over, and press well to- 
gether ; dip in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, or, if liked, crushed vermiceUi 
may be used, and fry the rissoles in very hot fat until a golden colour. Drain, 
and dish in a pyramid on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



4U6 



TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,392. STUFFED VEGETABLE MARROW. 



1 small vegetable 


1 tablespoonful chopped 


J oz. flour. 


breadcrumbs 


marrow. 


parsley. 


5 gill water. 


salt. 


\ lb. cold meat. 


\ oz. butter. 


fried parsley. 


legg. 



Peel the marrow, cut a small slice off each end and then remove the seeds with- 
out breaking the marrow. Put it into a saucepan of boihng salted water, and let 
it cook gently until tender, taking great care that it does not break. Lift it out 
when done, and let it drain well. Remove all fat and gristle from the cold meat, 
and put it through a mincing-machine. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in 
the flour, moisten with the water, and stir over the fire until it is very thick. Add 
the minced meat to this, also the chopped parsley, season to taste, and mix 
thoroughly over the fire. Stuff the boiled marrow with this mixture, making it 
quite level at each end. Roll it in floar to dry it, cover with beaten egg, and 
then roll in breadcrumbs. Fry in hot fat until a golden-brown colour. Dish up 
on a dish-paper on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to October. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 




Fig. 93.— " Ghiac " (a Norwegian Dish). 



1,393. " GHIAC " (A NORWEGIAN DISH). 



salt and pepper, 
gravy or stock. 



a large round of bread, 
brown sauce (No. 6). 



1 lb. cooked meat, 
legg. 

Take a large round of bread, 2 inches thick, pour over it enough hot gravy or 
stock to soak it, then pound it in a mortar to .a smooth batter. Beat the egg 
well, mince the meat finely, add the meat, egg, salt, and pepper to the pounded 
bread, stir in a httle sauce ; mix all well together. Put this mixture into a 
well-buttered timbale-mould or cake-tin, which it must exactly fit, press it well 
dowTi, and bake for about half an hour. Let it remain a few minutes after 
taking it out of the oven ; then turn out on to a hot dish, sprinkle some bread- 
crumbs over it, and brown before the fire or in the oven. When well browned, 
pour over it some brown sauce, and serve. Peas, seakale, or cauhflower are 
excellent with it. 

Average cost, without meat, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



407 



1,394. MINCED BEEF A LA PORTUGAISE. 



1 lb. cold roast beef. 

\ teaspoonful lemon -rind. 

salt. 



cayenne. 
3 ozs. rice. 
2 02S. butter. 



1 onion. 

1 pint stock. 

3 tomatoes. 



i jjint bro\vn sauce 
*■ (No. 6). 
chopped parsley. 

Mince the beef, first removing all skin and fat, put the meat into a stewpan, 
add the bro^\Ti sauce, season with salt and a pinch of cayenne, stir over the fire 
for a few minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop the onion, and as soon as 
the butter is hot, put in the onion, and fry it without browning. Next add the 
rice, fry for a few minutes in the butter ; then add the stock, and boil until the rice 
is tender and has absorbed the stock. It must be constantly stirred during the 
process of cooking or it will bum. Season with salt and pepper. Butter six 
small dariole-moulds, fill them vnth. the rice, press down, place them in the oven 
for a few minutes. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, turn out the rice timbales, 
put them round the dish. Have ready the tomatoes, cut in halves and baked, put 
one haK-tomato between each timbale, sprinkle each tomato with a httle chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, without meat, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,395. BRESLAW OF BEEF. 



\ lb. roast beef. 

4 ozs. breadcrumbs. 

2 ozs. butter. 



little nutmeg. 

brown sauce (No. 6). 

J teaspoonful lemon -rind. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. salt. 
J teaspoonful savoury herbs. pepper. 

1 gill of gravy or cream. 3 eggs. 

Trim the meat, cut off the brown pieces, chop the meat up finely, put it with 
the breadcrumbs in a basin ; mix with it the chopped parsley, herbs, salt and pepper, 
and very Httle nutmeg. Grate the lemon-rind, and add it to the other ingredients. 
Break up the butter into small pieces and mix in ; pour over the gravy or cream, and 
the eggs well beaten. JMix all together thoroughly. Butter some small dariole- 
moulds, put in the mixture, place in a moderate oven, and bake for 20 to 30 minutes. 
When done, turn out, and send to table with a tureen of brown sauce. 

Average cost, without meat, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,396. MINCED BEEF WITH POACHED EGGS. 



1 lb. cold roast beef. 
4 eggs. 



^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 
toast. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Remove the fat and skin from the meat, chop it up finely. Heat the brown 
sauce, add the chopped meat to it, season nicely with salt, pepper, and a dust of 
cayenne. Stir over the fire for about five minutes, until thoroughly hot. Toast 
some shces of bread, remove the crust, and cut in squares about 1| inches in size. 
Place these round a hot dish ; pour the mince in the centre. Poach the eggs just 
before serving, trim and drain, and place one egg on each piece of toast. Serve 
at once. 

Average cost, without meat, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,397. MINCED BEEF. 
1 lb. cold roast beef. 1 shallot. pepper. 



J gill port-wine. 
1 oz. butter. 



rind of ^ orange, 
salt. 



\ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
fried croutons. 



Take away fat and skin from the beef, then mince it finely. Put the butter 
into a stewpan. When melted, add the chopped shallot, and fry without browning ; 
then pour on the wine, add the shredded rind of half an orange, season with salt 
and pepper, simmer gently for a few minutes ; then stir in the J pint of tomato 



408 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

sauce, bring to the boil, and add the minced beef. Let it get thoroughly hot over 
the fire. Turn out on to a hot dish, garnish round wdth pieces of toast, cut in three- 
cornered shapes, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, without meat, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable 
all the year. Sufiicient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,398. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. 



cold boiled beef. 



cabbage, 
pepper. 



salt, 
cold potatoes. beef dripping or butter. 

Cut the beef, lean and fat, into shces about \ inch thick. Melt 2 or 3 ozs. of 
dripping in a frying-pan, and fry the shces quickly over a brisk fire ; cook them 
until they are hot through, but do not let them get dry. Mix some cold cabbage 
or greens of any kind with an equal quantity of mashed potatoes. Fry these 
together in a little butter or dripping, keeping it stirred all the time ; season nicely 
with salt and pepper. Pile the vegetables in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the 
shces of meat round, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, from 4d. to 6d., without the meat. Time required, 20 minutes. 
Seasonable at all times. 

1,399. DEVILLED BONES. 

bones of beef or mutton. | mustard. | salt. | cayenne pepper. 

Blade-bones of shoulders of mutton or lamb, and ribs of beef, are generally used 
for this purpose. Also legs of chicken or turkey can be used in the same way. 
Any kind of bones with some meat on them will serve for this purpose. Score the 
meat on the bones across. Mix together some mustard, salt, and cayenne ; fill 
the shts made in the meat with this mixture. Grill the bones crisply, without 
burning, and serve verj'' hot. 



1,400. HASH OF SALT BEEF. 



1 lb. cold boiled beef. 
8 mushrooms. 



2 onions. 

3 gills stock. 



1 gill red wine, j \\ ozs. flour. I salt. 

2 ozs. butter. | toast. ! pepper. 



Cut the beef into neat shces ; peel the onions and chop them finely. Melt the 
butter in a stewpan and, when hot, put in the onions ; fry them a nice brown, 
add the flour, and cook it until a hght colour. Then moisten with stock and the 
wine, stir until it boils, simmer for ten minutes ; season with salt and pepper. 
Put the shces of meat into the prepared sauce, simmer very gently for a few 
minutes, but do not on any account allow it to boil. Cook the mushrooms in 
butter, and keep hot. When ready to serve, dish the meat in a pile in the centre 
of a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish each end with the mushrooms, and 
round the dish with three-cornered sippets of toast. 

Average cost. Is., exclusive of beef. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,401. SALT BEEF AU GRATIN. 

IJ lbs. cold salt beeL i 1 pint Italian sauce (No. 41). 
butter. I brown -bread crumbs. 

Cut the beef into nice shces, J inch thick. Butter shghtly a gratin-dish, arrange 
the shces on this, pour the Itahan sauce over ; cover with brown-bread crumbs, 
put here and there a few bits of butter. Place the dish in the oven to get hot. 
Serve in the same dish, very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 409 

1,402. SALT BEEF WITH PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

li lbs. cold salt beef. 1 turnip. 1 pint piquante sauce j 2 carrots. 

2 gills stock. butter. (No. 59). I seasoning. 

Cut the beef in neat slices, trim and remove the fat and skin. Put the slices 
into a ste-svpan, pour over the stock, bring slowly to the boil, draw to the side of 
the fire, and let it simmer very gently for ten minutes. Scrape the carrot, peel 
the turnip, cut them into dice ; cook in salted water or stock separately. Dish 
the slices of beef on a hot dish, pour the sauce over. Season the vegetables, drain, 
and mix them together. Melt a httle butter in a small stewpan, put in the vegetables, 
and toss them in it ; garnish the dish with these ; either pile them in the centre 
or arrange groups round. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, without meat, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,403. SALT BEEF WITH BACON AND TOMATOES. 



\\ lbs. cold salt beef. 



1 lb. tomatoes. 



1 oz. butter. 
\ lb. streaky bacon. 1 onion. \ pint stock. 

Remove all fat and skin from the beef, cut it in square pieces, H inches in size. 
Take the rind off the bacon, and cut it in pieces the same size as the beef. jNIelt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, and fry it. When it is brown, add the 
tomatoes, cut in sHces, the peeled onions, sliced, and the stock. Cook gently for 
fifteen minutes. Season if necessary. Now add the meat, and simmer very 
gently for ten minutes longer. When done, turn out on to a dish, arrange neatly, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, without meat, Is. 2d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,404. BEEF SALAD. 

1 lb. lean cold boiled beef. I 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 2 cooked potatoes. I 2 lettuces. 

^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. ! 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 1 hard-boiled egg. ! salt and pepper. 

Trim the beef, removing all skin, fat, and sinew ; cut it up into thin sHces, 
and then into large dice. Shce the potatoes ; wash and dry the lettuces. Put 
the meat and potatoes into a salad-bowl ; sprinkle over salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley, add the vinegar and oil, mix all well together. Pile the salad in the centre 
of the dish, garnish round with the hearts of the two lettuces and shces of hard- 
boiled eggs, and serve. 

Average cost, without meat, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,405. BEEF HASH. 



1 lb. cold beef. 



1 onion. 



toast. 

salt and pepper. 



^ turnip. I 2 ozs. dripping. 

6 pickled walnuts. 1 carrot. 1 pint stock. I \\ ozs. flour. 

Cut the beef into thin slices. Melt the dripping in a stewpan, put in the onion, 
carrot, and turnip, which have been previously prepared and cut in shces ; fry 
these a nice dark brown. Then add the flour ; stir this over the fire until it has 
become a pale brown colour. Then mix in the stock, stir until it boils, simmer 
gently for ten minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, put in the shces of 
meat, and let it get thoroughly hot, but it must on no account be allowed to boil 
after the meat goes in. Warm the pickled walnuts in some of their own fiquor, 
taking care to keep them whole. When ready to serve, dish the meat in the centre 
of a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with the walnuts, and some. dry toast 
cut in three-cornered shapes, round the dish. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



410 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,406. BEEF CAKES. 



\ lb. cold beef. 

3 ozs. raw fat bacon. 

1 teaspoonful flour. 



masbed potatoes. 

legg. 

salt and pepper. 



1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
J teaspoonful mixed herbs. 
I pint broAvn sauce (No. 6). 

Put the cold beef and raw bacon through a fine mincing-machine ; mix them 
together in a basin, add the flour, parsley, herbs, and seasoning. Beat the egg, 
and then stir it into the mixture, adding a little stock if the egg is not sufficient 
to bind it. Divide this preparation into eight equal portions, shape them into 
round, flat cakes. Dip each into flour that has been seasoned with pepper and 
salt. Melt some butter or dripping in a frying-pan, put in the beef cakes, and 
cook them rather quickly until nicely brown on each side. Mix a little butter or 
milk with the mashed potatoes, make a border of them on a hot dish ; dress the meat 
cakes on this, overlapping one another. Heat up the brown sauce and strain it 
round the outside of the potato border. Send to table immediately.- 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 15 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 94. — Cannelon of Beef. 



J lb. cold beef. 
\ lb. beef dripping. 



1,407. CANNELON OF BEEF. 

\ oz. butter. 



i lb. flour. 



J oz. flour. 



J gill water, 
pepper and salt. 



1 small onion. 

Mince the beef finely, removing all fat and gristle. Chop the onion, and fry 
it a golden brown in the butter ; stir in J oz. of flour, moisten with the water, and 
cook over the fire until the mixture is very tliick and leaves the sides of the pan 
clean. Put in the minced meat, season with pepper and salt, and stir over the 
fire until the meat is thoroughly hot. Sieve the | pound of flour into a basin, 
add a pinch of salt, and then rub in the dripping very hghtly. Mix in enough 
water to make it a stiff dough. Turn out on to a floured board, roll out once, and 
then spread all over with the beef mixture. Roll up as for a roly-poly, fastening 
the edges with a httle water. Place on a floured tin, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about thirty to forty minutes. Care must be taken that the roll is not too 
thick, or the pastry will not be done in the centre. 

Average cost, l|d., exclusive of meat and dripping. Time required, 1 hour, 
In season all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 411 



1,408. RECHAUFFE OF BEEF. 



t lb. cold beef. 
2 onions. 



1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 
\ pint demi-glaco sauce (No. 29). cold potatoes. 



salt, 
pepper. 

Cut the beef into small, neat slices, removing the fat and gristle. Peel the 
onions, chop them finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, and fry 
a golden brown. Mash the cold potatoes wdth a httle butter or milk. Well butter 
a pie-dish, and hne it with a layer of the potato ; on this place some of the slices of 
beef, season them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, sprinkle over some of 
the fried onion, and pour in a little of the sauce. Place another layer of beef, 
onion, parsley, and sauce on the top, and continue in this way until the dish is 
full. Cover the top with a thick layer of mashed potato. Place in a moderate 
oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,409. GRILLED BEEF WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

1^ lbs. cold beef. demi-glace sauce (No. 29). ^ pint Bechamel sauce 1 yolk of egg. 

mashed potatoes. 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice. (No. 4). 12 oysters. 

Remove the beards from the oysters, put them into a saucepan with their 
liquor, and bring them just to the boil. Take up the oysters, and cut them into 
small pieces. Have the Bechamel sauce ready heated in a saucepan, put into it 
the oj^ster hquor, and let it boil well ; strain tliis sauce into another saucepan, 
add the yolk of the egg, and stir over the fire until the egg binds. Season to taste- 
with salt and the lemon-juice. Lastly, add the pieces of oyster, heat thoroughly, 
but do not on any account allow it to boil. Cut the cold beef into neat slices, 
grill them for a few minutes over a clear fire. Heat up the mashed potato, maka 
a border of it on a hot dish, arrange the beef slices on the top, and fill the centra 
with the prepared oyster sauce. Pour a httle thin demi-glace sauce round the 
outside of the border, and serve verj' hot. 

Average cost, 2s., exclusive of cold meat. Time required, 15 minutes. Season- 
able, September to April. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



1 J lbs. cold beef, i 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. | 2 shallots. 
2 ozs. butter. I brown-bread crumbs. | beef gravy. 



1,410. BEEF EN PERSILLADE. 

salt. 
pepper. 

Cut the beef into nice shoes, removing all fat and gristle. Melt the butter,, 
pour a httle of it on a fire-proof dish, then arrange the sHces of beef neatly on it. 
Sprinkle over with parsley and finely-chopped shallots, season with pepper and 
salt. Pour two or three tablespoonfuls of beef gravy over, and then sprinkle 
thickly with brown-bread crumbs and the rest of the melted butter. Place in a 
moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Take up, and serve in the dish that 
it was cooked in. 

Average cost, 4d., exclusive of beef. Time required, 20 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



1,411. BOUDINS OF BEEF. 

Espagnole sauce 



Bait, 
pepper. 



1 lb. cold beef. i 1 oz. butter. 

beef gravy or stock. I 2 eggs. (No. 33). 

Remove all fat and gristle from the meat, mince it finely, put into the mortar 
and pound, with just enough gravy or stock to moisten it. Season \vith pepper 
and salt, and rub through a vAve sieve. Put this puree into a basin, melt the butter 
and stir it into the meat ; beat the eggs, and add also. Butter some small dariole- 
moulds, fill them with the beef mixture, place them in a steamer, cover with. 



J lb. cold beef. 



412 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

buttered paper, and steam gently for twenty to twenty-five minutes. When done, 
turn out carefully on a hot dish. Warm up the Espagnole sauce, and pour it over 
and round the boudins. Garnish the top of each with a little chopped parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 45 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,412. MINCED BEEF WITH TOMATOES. 

brown sauce (No. 6). salt. 

1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. pepper, 
grated Parmesan cheese. 1 oz. butter. 

Mince the beef, removing all fat and gristle. Peel and chop the onion, fry it 
a golden brown in J oz. of butter ; add the minced beef to it, also the parsley and 
pepper and salt. Moisten with a httle brown sauce. Cut a small piece off the top of 
each tomato, and scoop out the pulp carefully, taking care not to break the tomatoes. 
Rub the pulp through a hair sieve, and then stir it into the beef. Fill the tomatoes 
with the meat, sprinkle over the top of each with grated Parmesan cheese and the 
other J oz. of butter, melted. Place on a buttered tin, and cook in a moderate 
oven for about ten minutes. The tomatoes used for this dish must not be too 
ripe, or they will break in the cooking. When done, take them out of the oven, 
arrange on a hot dish, and pour brown sauce round. 

Average cost, Is., exclusive of meat. Time required, 20 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1 lb. tomatoes. 
\ lb. cole 
1 onion. 



\ lb. flour. 
\ lb. butter. 



1^ lbs. cold veal. 
\ lb. mushrooms. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1,413. CROUSTADE OF VEAL. 

Bechamel sauce 
(No. 4). 

Sieve the flour into a basin, put in the butter, and rub in with the fingers until 
it looks like breadcrumbs. Mix in just enough cold water to make it into a stiff 
dough. Turn out on to a floured board, roU out, and fine a flan ring with it. Fill 
with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven until a pale brown. Remove the rice. 
Cut the veal into neat sHces, not too large. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stalks, 
divide into two or three pieces, and cook in the oven, with a little butter. Put 
the veal and mushrooms into a saucepan, moisten with enough Bechamel sauce to 
make it a nice consistency. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Fill the pastry 
croustade with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Sprinkle a little 
chopped parsley over the top, and place in a cool oven to heat through. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of meat. Time required, 45 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,414. STEWED VEAL WITH HAM. 



1 lb. cooked veal. 
\ lb. cooked ham. 



1 pint Bechamel sauce. (No. 4). 
croutons of fried bread. 



a httle lemon-juice. 



1 hard-boiled egg. parsley, 



salt. 



Cut the veal and ham into neat pieces, removing all fat from the ham. Put 
the Bechamel sauce in a saucepan, heat it thoroughly, season with salt and a httle 
lemon-juice. Add the shces of veal and ham to this, and allow them to simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Turn it out on to a hot dish, garnish round alternately 
with shces of hard-boiled egg and three-comer-shaped croutons of fried bread. 
Chop a little parsley and sprinkle it in the centre of the veal and ham. Serve very 
hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
.all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



413 



1,415. STEWED VEAL WITH CUCUMBER. 



2 lbs. cold loin of veal. 

1 pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



1 large cucumber. I 1 oz. butter. I salt, 
cooked potatoes. | 2 yolks of eggs. I pepper. 

Cut the veal into nice pieces, taking away the bones. Peel the cucumber, cui 
it in quarters and remove the seeds, and then divide into smaller pieces. Put into 
boiling salted water, and let them cook gently until tender. Put 1 pint of Bechamel 
eauce into a pan, heat it thoroughly, and then add the pieces of veal ; let them 
simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Mash the cooked potatoes, with a little milk 
or butter, make a border of them on a hot dish, and arrange the pieces of veal 
on it, overlapping one another. Place in a cool oven to keep warm. Strain the 
sauce into another pan, add the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until the eggs 
are cooked. It must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, drain the cucumber, and then toss it in the butter for a few 
minutes. Pour the prepared sauce over the veal and round the dish, and fill the 
centre with the pieces of cucumber. Serve hot. 

Average cost. lOd., exclusive of veal. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, May 
to September. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



J lb. cold veal. 
I lb. cold potatoes, 
pepper. 



1,416. VEAL AND POTATO RISSOLES. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. breadcrumbs. 1 egg-yolk. 
^ teaspoonful grated lemon-rind. fried parsley. 1 whole egg. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. salt. 1 oz. butter. 

Remove all bone, skin, and gristle from the veal, mince it finely ; rub the potatoes 
through a fine sieve ; chop the hard-boiled eggs finely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a 
stewpan. When hot, put in the potato, and stir over the fire ; then add the veal, 
the chopped eggs, grated lemon-rind, chopped parsley, pepper and salt ; mix all 
together thoroughly. Then add the yolk of the egg, stir well, and turn on to a 
plate to cool. When cold, divide into equal parts, shape each portion into a ball 
or into the form of a cork ; continue to do this until the mixture is all prepared. 
Beat up an egg on a plate, dip the balls into it, brush over so that every part is 
covered then toss in breadcrumbs. Have ready some clarified fat, very hot. 
As soon as it smokes, drop the rissoles into it, and fry a golden colour. Dish up 
in a pile on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. If liked, a white or brown 
sauce can be sent up with them separately. Serve hot. 

Average cost, without meat, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 12 rissoles. 



1 lb. cold veal — loin, 
grated lemon-rind. 



1,417. MINCED VEAL. 

bouquet garni. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. salt, 

rashers of bacon. \ oz. flour. toast. pepper. 

Remove the bones and skin from the veal, either loin or fillet ; the meat should 
weigh a pound after this has been done. Put the bones and trimmings into a 
saucepan, add the onion, cut in quarters, and the herbs ; pour over about li pints 
of cold water, bring to the boil, add some salt, skim well, and simmer gently for 
one hour. When done, strain the stock, skim o£E the fat, and let cool. Mince the 
veal finely. Melt the butter in a ste^vpan, stir in the flour, add \ pint of the stock, 
and bring to the boil ; simmer for ten minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 
Now add the minced veal and a little grated lemon-rind ; if not moist enough, add 
a Httle more stock. Cut some thin shoes of streaky bacon, roll up, run a skewer 
through them to keep them in shape, place on a baking-tin, and cook in the oven 
until crisp. Pour the mince on to a hot dish, cut some slices of toast into small 
three-cornered pieces, border the dish \\ith these, and garnish with the rolled bacon. 

Average cost, \vithout veal, id. Time required, after stock is made, 20 minutes. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



414 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,418. MINCED VEAL WITH MACARONI. 



1 lb. cold veal. 
J lb. macaroni. 



1 lemon. I salt. 



J lb. cooked ham. j 1 gill stock. 

grated lemon -rind. ( 1 oz. butter. parsley. | pepper. 

Mince the veal and ham finely, first removing all skin and bone. Prepare stock 
as in previous recipe. Mix together in a saucepan the veal, ham, grated lemon-rind, 
pepper and salt ; dilute with the stock, adding a little more if necessary. Keep 
by the side of the fire, but do not let it boil. Break up the macaroni, have ready a 
saucepan containing plenty of boiling water, seasoned with salt ; drop the macaroni 
into it, bring up quickly to the boil again, then cook for forty minutes. When done, 
drain it, and wash under the tap, shake and drain to remove the moisture. Melt 
1 oz, of butter in a stewpan, put in the macaroni, stir it over the fire until thoroughly 
hot, season with salt and pepper. Turn out on to a hot dish, and make a border 
round the dish with it. Pour the mince into the centre, garnish with thin sUces 
of lemon and sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, without veal, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,419. MINCED VEAL WITH SPINACH. 



1 lb. cooked veal. 
3 or 4 new laid eggs. 



toast, 
bacon. 



\ oz. flour, 
salt and pepper. 



\ pint rich gravy or stock. 2 lbs. spinach, 
grated lemon-rind. IJ ozs. butter. 

Mince the veal finely ; this should weigh a pound after bone and skin have been 
removed. Prepare the stock as in previous recipe (No. 1,417). Strain and skim, 
and let it cool. Melt \ oz. of butter in a stewpan, add the flour, moisten with the 
stock, stir until it boils, simmer for a few minutes ; then put in the meat, and season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and grated lemon-rind. Boil the spinach, drain well, 
press out the water, and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the spinach, and stir until quite hot ; season with salt and pepper, A 
little cream added is an improvement. Pack the spinach into a well-greased 
border-mould, and place it in a cool oven until required. Poach the eggs just 
before serving, trim neatly with a round cutter. Cut some streaky bacon into 
thin shoes, roll them, run a skewer through them, place on a baking-tin, and cook 
until done and crisp. Make the toast, lastly, cut it into three-cornered pieces. Turn 
out the mould of spinach on to a hot dish, pour the veal into the centre, dress the eggs 
on the veal, place the bacon on the spinach alternately with the toast. Serve hot. 

Average cost, without veal, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons, 

1,420. VEAL TURNOVER. 

J lb. cold veal, I \ pint milk, 6 ozs. flour. ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

grated lemon-rind, ' 2 eggs. 2 ozs. butter. pepper and salt. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre of the flour, and break in 
the eggs ; stir together. Then add by degrees the | pint of milk. When half the 
milk has been stirred in, beat well for ten minutes ; then add the rest of the milk, 
season to taste with salt and pepper and the chopped parsley. Mince the veal, 
removing skin and bone, season it with salt, pepper, and a httle grated lemon-rind. 
Put the butter in a frying-pan, put it over the fire, and when it is very hot pour in 
the batter. As soon as it begins to set place the minced veal in the centre. The 
batter must not be allowed to cook too quickly, or it will bum. When it is cooked 
on one side, fold the batter over from the edges to the centre, so as to enclose the 
meat, and turn it over carefully with a fish-shce. When quite cooked, turn on to 
a hot dish, hfting it to do so with the shoe. Serve hot. A good gravy or a suitable 
sauce can be sent to table with it. 

Average cost, without meat, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



415 



1,421. MINCED VEAL AND POACHED EGGS. 



1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. 

salt and pepper. 

bacon. 



2 ozs. butter. 

stock. 

milk. 



1 lb. cold potatoes. 
h lb. cooked veal. 
3 eggs. 

Mince the veal finely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, add the veal, and 
moisten with enough stock to make the mince a nice consistency. Season with 
pepper and salt, and mix in the chopped parsley. Mash the cold potatoes in a 
saucepan, with 1 oz. of butter and a Uttle milk ; season with pepper and salt. Cut 
six thin sHces of bacon, roll them up, place on a skewer, and cook in the oven 
until crisp. Poach three eggs in boiling water, taking care to keep them a good 
shape. Make a border of the potatoes on a hot dish, smooth it with a fork, and 
then fill the centre with the veal mince. Trim the poached eggs neatly, and 
place them on the top of the mince. Garnish round the edge of the potato with 
the rolls of bacon ; sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre of each egg. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of veal. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 persons. 




Fi3. 95. — Minced Veal and Poached Eggs. 



1 lb. cold veal. 
{ lb. macaroni. 
1 lb. tomatoes. 



1,422. VEAL AND MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

1 oz. grated Parmesan breadcrumbs. 

cheese. salt. 

3 ozs. butter. pepper. 

Remove the bone, skin, and gristle from the veal, mince it finely. Boil the 
macaroni for about forty minutes in a saucepan of fast-boiling water, seasoned with 
Bait. When done, strain and wash it, drain, and chop well. Cut up the tomatoes 
in shoes, rub them through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in, 
as soon as hot, the minced veal, the macaroni and tomato, mix all well together ; 
season nicel}^ %^dth salt and pepper, add the Parmesan cheese, mix thoroughly and, 
when well incorporated, turn the mixture into a well-buttered pie-dish, smooth it 
over the top, sprinkle over it a few breadcrumbs, put a few bits of butter here and 
there, and place in a quick oven until brown. When hot, send to table in the same 
dish. 

Average cost, without meat, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

PT. VI. 27 



416 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,423. VEAL WITH RISOTTO. 



h lb. cold veal. 
1 oz. butter. 
6 ozs. rice. 



1 quart of white stock. 
1 oz. grated cheese. 
1 onion. 



J pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 
I gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
salt and pepper. 



Melt the butter in a saucepan ; peel and chop the onion, fry in the butter for a 
few minutes, then add the rice, and cook until it begins to brown. Moisten with 
the stock, and stir until the rice is tender and the stock absorbed. Mix in 1 gill 
of tomato sauce and the grated cheese, season with salt and pepper. Butter a 
timbale-mould, and line it with the risotto, 1 inch thick. Chit the veal into small 
pieces, put it into a saucepan, and moisten with the Bechamel sauce. Fill this 
mixture into the centre of the mould, cover the top with a layer of risotto, 
cook in the oven for 20 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour tomato 
sauce round. 

Average cost, 9d., exclusive of veal. Time required, 1 hour. In season all 
the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 




FiQ. 96. — Minced Veal is Jelly. 



\ lb. cold veal. 
2 ozs. ham. 



1,424. MINCED VEAL IN JELLY. 

1 gill white chaudfroid sauce (No. 124). 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



salt, 
pepper. 



Line some small dariole-moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. This is best 
done by placing a smaller mould in each, and then pouring the aspic jelly into the 
cavity between the moulds. When set, remove the inner moulds by pouring some 
warm water into them and immediately lifting them out. Cut the cold veal into 
small pieces, also the ham, add the white chaudfroid sauce to them, season with 
pepper and salt, and put aside in a cool place until it begins to set ; then fill the 
cavities in the dariole-moulds with it. Cover with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and 
put aside to set. When quite firm, turn them out, by dipping in warm water. 
Arrange them on a cold dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a few sprigs of 
parsley. 

Average cost. Is., exclusive of veal. Time required, 1 hour. In season all the 
year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



417 



1,425. CHICKEN CUTLETS. 



\ lb. cold chicken. 
\ gill Bechamel sauce 
(No. 4). 



\ teaspoonful chopped 

parsley, 
mashed potatoes. 



1 tablespoonful cream, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 
breadcrumbs. 



legg. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Cut up the cold chicken, take away skin, bone, and tendons, mince the meat 
finely, put it into a stewpan, add to it the Bechamel sauce and the cream, season 
with salt and pepper and chopped parsley. IVIix thoroughly over the fire. Turn 
the mixture on to a plate, shape it into a cake, and let it get cold. When ready 
to use, divide the preparation into equal parts ; take each part in turn, and shape 
into cutlets. Beat up the egg on a plate, dip in the cutlets, one at a time, brush 
over with the egg, lift into the breadcrumbs ; shake these well over, so that the 
cutlets are thoroughly coated. Take a clean, dry knife, shape the cutlets again. 
Place them in a frying-basket, and fry them in very hot fat ; take up, turn out on 
to kitchen-paper to drain. Have ready some mashed potatoes, mix in a little egg 
or milk, make a circular border with them on a hot dish, dress the cutlets on this 
in a circle, overlapping each other, fill the centre with fried parsley, and serve. 
If Hked, a suitable sauce can be poured round, and peas or spinach served in the 
centre. 

Average cost, without chicken, 6d. Time to prepare, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 



1,426. 

\ lb. cold chicken meat, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 
small blade of mace. 



COLD CHICKEN ENTREE 

2 ozs. ham. 



J onion. 



^ oz. gelatine. 



1 gill milk. 
1 clove, 
breadcrumbs. 



salt, 
pepper. 

legg. 



Remove skin and gristle from the cold chicken, cut it up small, and put it into 
■a mortar wdth the cooked ham, fat and lean ; pound well together until a smooth 
paste. Put the milk into a saucepan ; peel the onion, stick it with one clove ; 
add this to the milk, with a tiny piece of mace, bring slowly to the boil ; let it stand 
at the side of the fire until the milk is well flavoured. Add the gelatine, and melt ; 
then strain it on to a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs. Let this stand until nearly 
cold, add to the chicken mixture, season to taste with salt and pepper. Spread 
this preparation on a flat dish, and let set. Wlien cold, cut out into strips, about 
2 inches long, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. 
Dish them in a pile, one upon another, crosswise, garnish with fried parsley, and 
«erve. 

Average cost, without chicken, 4d. Time to prepare, 40 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,427. CHARTREUSE OF FOWL. 



1 lb. cooked chicken. 


J lb. sausage-meat. 


1 tablespoonful chopped 


stock. 


3 tomatoes. 


2 tablespoonfuls bread- 


parsley. 


salt. 


2 eggs. 


crumbs. 


Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 


pepper 



Mince the chicken finely, put it into a basin, add the sausage-meat, parsley, 
breadcrumbs, and pepper and salt. Mis. all well together, and bind with two 
beaten eggs and a Httle stock. Butter a timbale-mould, fill ^^'ith the chicken 
mixture, put into a steamer, cover with buttered paper, and cook gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Cut the tomatoes in sUces, and cook in the oven \^ith a httle 
butter, taking care that they do not get too soft. Turn the chicken mould out on 
to a hot dish, pour the Espagnole sauce over and round it, garnish with the shces 
of tomato and a httle chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is., exclusive of chicken. Time required, 1 hour. In season all 
tthe year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

27—2 



418 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ lb. cold chicken. 
2 ozs. cooked ham. 



1,428. CROUSTADE OF CHICKEN AND MACARONI. 

3 ozs. macaroni. ^ pint Bechamel sauce | Jib. flour. 

Parmesan cheese. I (No. 4). I i lb. butter. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter Hghtly, and mix in just enough 
water to make it into a stiff dough. Roll out about ^ inch thick, Hne a flan ring 
■with it, fill "wdth raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is done. 
Take it out and remove the rice. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and cook 
in boihng salted water until tender. Cut the chicken and ham into nice sized 
pieces, put them into a saucepan with the cooked macaroni, add some Bechamel 
sauce, taking care not to add too much, or it will run out of the croustade. Fill 
the pastry case "wdth the chicken mixture, sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over 
the top, and place in the oven to heat through. Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of Chicken. Time required, 1 hour. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,429. CHICKEN AND RICE AU GRATIN. 

J lb. cold chicken. 2 ozs. rice. I J pint tomato sauce 

Parmesan cheese. 



salt, 
pepper. 



breadcrumbs. | (No. 77). 

Cut the cold chicken into small pieces. Cook tho rice in boiling salted water 
until tender, taking care that each grain is separate when cooked. Drain well. 
Butter a pie-dish, place a layer of the chicken at the bottom, then a layer of cooked 
rice. Pour some tomato sauce over this, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated 
cheese. Repeat these layers until the dish is full. The last layer must be cheese 
and breadcrumbs. Place in a hot oven to brown. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of chicken. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,430. FRIED CHICKEN LEGS. 

2 cold chicken legs. | 1 egg. \ breadcrumbs. | fried parsley. 

Divide the chicken legs at the joints. Beat up the egg, brush the chicken legs 
over with it, and then roll in breadcrumbs. Fry them in very hot fat until a golden- 
brown colour. Take them up and drain on paper. Dish on a dish-paper on a 
hot dish, and garnish with sprigs of fried parsley. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2d., exclusive of chicken. Time required, 10 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 2 persons. 



J lb. chicken meat, 
chopped parsley. 
1 oz. butter. 



salt. 

cayenne. 

milk. 



1,431. QUENELLES OF COOKED CHICKEN. 

1 gill breadcrumbs. , 2 yolks of eggs, 
f pint Bechamel sauce 1 mashed potato. 
(No. 4). I 2 lbs. spinach. 

]\Iince the chicken finely, put it into a saucepan with the butter and the bread- 
crumbs, which have been first soaked in milk and then squeezed dry in a cloth ; 
add to these the egg-yolks, and, if found necessary, a little Bechamel sauce ; mix all 
well together, season with salt and a small dust of cayenne. Turn the mixture 
on to a plate to cool. Make into queneUes by means of two dessertspoons ; dip 
one of the spoons into hot water, fill with the mixture, shape it with a knife, remove 
the quenelle with the other spoon, and place it in a buttered saute-pan, cover with 
boihng stock or water, put on the fire, and cook for ten minutes very gently. When 
done, take up and drain on a cloth. Have ready some mashed potato, make a 
circular border with it on a hot dish, dress the quenelles on this, coat over with 
Bechamel sauce, sprinkle each quenelle with a Httle chopped parsley, and arrange 
in the centre of the dish some nicely cooked and prepared spinach. Serve hot. 

Average cost, without chicken. Is. 3d Time required. 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 6 or 8 quenelles 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 419 



cayenne pepper. 

salt. 



1,432. CHICKEN AU GRATIN. 

cold chicken. I ^ pint Momay sauce (No. 110). croutons of fried bread, 

breadcrumbs. | | oz. grated Parmesan cheese. ^ oz. butter. 

Take all the flesh off the chicken bones, cut the meat into small pieces. Make 
the Momay sauce as directed in No. 110, omitting the fish stock. Put the chicken 
into this sauce, and heat thoroughly, without allowing it to boil ; season to taste 
with salt and cayenne. Turn the mixture on to a fire-proof dish, which has been 
well-buttered. Sprinkle the surface with cheese, breadcrumbs, and the \ oz. of 
butter, oiled. Place in a hot oven until the surface is nicely browned. Take it 
out, and place croutons of fried bread all round the edge of the dish. Serve very 
hot. 

Average cost, lOd., without chicken. Time required, 20 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



1,433. CROUSTADES OF CHICKEN. 



\ lb. cold chicken. 
1 oz. cooked ham. 
4 small dinner-rolls. 



1 gill thick Bechamel 

sauce (No. 4). 
1 tablespoonful cream. 



salt. 

pepper. 

butter. 



breadcrumbs. 

grated Parmesan cheese. 

chopped parsley. 

Chit up the chicken, remove the skin, bones, and tendons (there should be 
\ lb. of meat after this is done). Mince the chicken and ham finely, put it into a 
saucepan, add to it the cream and sufficient Bechamel sauce to moisten ; season 
with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Cut the dinner-rolls in halves, scoop out 
some of the soft inside, fill them vnth. the chicken mixture. Put over each a layer 
of white sauce, sprinkle wdth grated Parmesan cheese and freshly-made bread- 
crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter on each, and place in the oven for about ten 
minutes. When done, dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, wdthout chicken, 8d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 8 croustades. 

1,434. GAME PATTIES. 

J lb. cold game. I lemon -juice. I 1 raw yolk. , puff paste trimmings, 

pepper. I \ gill brown sauce. I salt. | white of egg. 

Cut up the game, free it from skin, gristle, and bone, season it with salt and 
pepper. Put this into a stewpan, add the brown sauce, mix well together, then bind 
with the yolk of an egg. Roll out the pastry, line some patty-pans with it, fill with 
the mixture. Whip the white of egg stiffly, mix in a squeeze of lemon-juice, cover 
the patties with this, put them on a baking-tin, and bake in the oven until a golden 
colour. Take them up, arrange on a dish-paper, and serve hot. 

Average cost, without the game, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to February. Sufficient for 8 patties. 



1,435. SMALL GAME SOUFFLES. 



J lb. cooked game. \ gill brown sauce 

a pinch of sweet herbs. 



2 eggs. 

1 oz. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



(No. 6). 

Cut the game in smaU pieces, removing all skin and bone, put it in a mortar, 
add the butter and work in the brown sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and herbs ; 
pound aU well together, add the yolks of the eggs, mix thoroughly, and rub through 
a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, and mix into it the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs, stir hghtly together. Butter some china or paper ramakin cases, fill 
them three-parts fuU with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Serve 
quickly in the cases. 

Average cost, without game, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable. 
August to February. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



420 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,436. SMALL TIMBALES OF GAME AND POTATO. 



1 lb. mashed potato. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt. j 6 mushrooms. I 2 yolks of eggs. 

J lb. cold game. I pepper. j ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Take any kind of cold game, remove the skin, bone, and sinews, cut it into 
small dice. Peel the mushrooms, chop them finely. Melt | oz. of butter in a 
stewpan, put in the mushrooms, and cook them for a few minutes, stirring mean- 
while. Add the dice of game to the mushrooms, season with salt and pepper. 
Add sufficient sauce to moisten the mixture, mix all well together. Rub the 
cooked potatoes through a fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; when 
hot, put in the sieved potato, season with salt and pepper, stir over the fire until 
hot through, then add the yolk of an egg, and work well together. Turn out this 
potato puree on to a plate, and let it cool. Butter some small dariole or timbale 
moulds, and fine them with the potato puree, press the mixture well into the moulds, 
so that there may be no cracks of holes when turned out. Fill the centre of each 
mould with the game preparation, cover over the top of each with the potato 
puree, smooth with a knife, taking care to have them level, brush over with beaten 
egg, and bake a golden colour in a moderate oven. Heat the remainder of the 
Bechamel sauce, add the rest of the butter in Httle bits, make quite hot, but do 
not boil again after the butter is added. Turn out the little shapes on to a hot dish, 
pour the sauce round, and serve hot. 

N.B. — Instead of game, chicken, duck, rabbit, or any kind of meat may 
be used. 

Average cost, without game, lOd. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, if 
game is used, August to February ; otherwise, all the year. Sufficient for 6 or 8 
timbales. 

1,437. CHICKEN WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 



1 cooked chicken. 
\ lb. tomatoes. 



chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper. 



1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 

^ pint stock. \ oz. flour. 

Cut up the chicken into joints. Melt the butter, put in the pieces, slice the onion, 
add to the chicken, and fry all together for a few minutes, then stir in the flour. 
Add the stock and the tomatoes cut in slices, stir until it boils, simmer gently for 
ten minutes, then take out the chicken and arrange it on a hot dish. Take the 
fat off the sauce, rub through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, reheat, season 
with salt and pepper, pour the sauce over the chicken, sprinkle with a little chopped 
parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 cold pheasant. 
1 gill port-wine, 
piece of celery. 



1,438. HASHED PHEASANT. 

2 ozs. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
J pint stock. 



1 small onion. 

bouquet garni (No. 194). 

croutons of fried bread. 



\ carrot. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Remove the meat from a cold pheasant. Chop the bones small, put them into 
a stewpan with the peeled onion, the carrot scraped, a piece of celery, and the 
bouquet garni, cover them with stock or water, stew gently for one hour ; strain 
this stock and let it get cold. Remove the fat and measure off \ pint. Cut the 
meat of the pheasant into small pieces. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, sprinkle 
the flour over the meat, and fry in the butter until sHghtly browned ; then add the 
wine and stock, stir until it boils, then simmer very gently by the side of the fire 
for a few minutes ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut some bread into 
three-cornered shapes, and fry them a golden colour in hot fat. Turn out the meat 
on to a hot dish, arrange it neatly, garnish mth the fried croutons, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 421 



1,439. GAME BOUDINS. 



1 lb. cold game. J lb. breadcrumbs. 



2 eggs. 



breadcrumbs. I butter. 
J lb. mushrooms. b^o^vn sauce (No. 6). fried parsley. | milk. salt and pepper. 

INIince the game xery finely, put it into a basin, and season highly with pepper 
and salt. Peel the mushrooms, and cook them in the oven with a httle butter. 
\Mien done, take them out, and chop finely. Soak the breadcrumbs in a httle milk 
until soft, then drain away the surplus milk, and mix the breadcrumbs into the 
game, also the chopped mushrooms. Beat up one egg and bind the mixture with 
it. Shape into round, flat cakes, keeping them all the same size. Beat the remaining 
egg on a plate, brush the cakes over with it, and then toss in breadcrumbs. Fry in 
\ very hot fat until a golden brown. Arrange in a circle on a dish-paper on a hot 
dish, fill the centre with fried parsley, and send to table with brown sauce served 
separately. 

Average cost, 8d., exclusive of game. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to March. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2 cold partridges. 
^ pint demi-glace 
sauce (No. 29). 



1,440. PARTRIDGE WITH MUSHROOMS. 

J lb. mushrooms. stock, 

cold potatoes. meat -glaze, 

parsley. salt. 

Cut the partridges into neat joints. Have ready some boiling stock with a 
little meat-glaze added to it ; put the pieces of game into this, and let it simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Peel the mushrooms, remove the stalks, and cook in 
the oven with a httle butter. Put the potatoes into a saucepan with some milk, 
mash them, and heat thoroughly ; shape into a border on a hot dish. Arrange the 
pieces of partridge on the potatoes, mix a httle thin demi-glace sauce with the cooked 
mushrooms, and place them in the centre of the border. Pour the rest of the sauce 
over the partridge and round the dish. Garnish with a httle chopped parsley, and 
serve immediately. 

Average cost, exclusive of game, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, 
September to February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



6 ozs. rice. 

1 quart white stock. 

brown sauce (No. 6). 



1,441. CASSOLETTES OF PARTRIDGE. 

2 ozs. grated Parmesan I breadcrumbs. 1 egg. 

cheese. fried parsley. 1 shallot. 

^ lb. cooked partridge. 1 ^ oz. butter. salt. 

Put the stock into a saucepan, and, when boihng, sprinkle in the rice ; stir over 
the fire until the rice is tender and all the stock absorbed. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper, mix in the grated cheese, and then turn out on to a plate. Spread it 
out until about 2 inches thick, and then leave until quite cold. Peel and chop the 
shallot, fry it a golden browTi in the butter ; add the partridge, cut in very small 
pieces, and enough brown sauce to make it a nice consistency (it must not be too 
hquid or it \\i\\ run out of the cassolettes). WTien the rice is cold, cut it out with a 
round cutter about 2 inches across. Brush them over \Yith. beaten egg, dip in 
breadcrumbs, and then mark the top of each one with a smaller cutter. Fry 
them in very hot fat, drain on paper, and lift out the centre-piece, which has been 
marked \y\ih. a smaller cutter. Scoop out some of the centre, and fill with, the 
partridge mixture, pihng it up rather high, so that it stands above the rice. 
Place the rounds that were taken out of the centre on the top of the meat. 
Arrange them on a hot dish on a dish-paper, and garnish with fried parsley. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of game. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, 
September to February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



422 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,442. RECHAUFFE OF PARTRIDGES. 



2 cold partridges. 
1 gill claret. 



^ pint brown sauce 
(No. 6). 



salt. 

cayenne pepper. 



1 lemon, 
parsley. 

Cut the partridges into neat joints. Put the brown sauce into a saucepan 
with the claret, the rind of the lemon cut in thin strips, and the juice strained. 
Let this come to the boil, then put in the pieces of partridge, and allow it to simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Season with salt and cayenne. Dish the partridge in a pile 
on a hoi dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with a Httle chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d., exclusive of game. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, 
September to February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,443, CORNETS OF GAME. 



\ lb. cold game. 

8 preserved mushrooms. 



1 shallot. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ pint Bech? mel sauce (No. 4). I 1 egg. 
I lb. puff pastry (No. 976). | salt. 



Cut the cold game into small dice. Peel and chop the shallot finely. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the shallot, and fry until a pale brown ; add the dice of 
game, the preserved mushrooms, cut in quarters, and enough Bechamel sauce to 




Fig. 97. — Cornets of Game. 

make it a nice consistency. Season well with salt and pepper. Roll the puf! 
pastry into a long strip. Cut into strips about 1 inch in width, and roll each piece 
round a greased cornet-tin, beginning at the tip and allowing each fold to overlap 
the last. Fasten at the top with a little water. Place them on a baking-tin, and 
then brush over with beaten egg. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. 
Take out and remove the comet-tins while hot. Fill with the game preparation, 
place in the oven for a few minutes to reheat the pastry, and then arrange on a 
dish-paper on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is,, exclusive of game. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,444. MUTTON AU GRATIN. 



1 lb. cooked mutton. 
J pint Espagnola sauce (No. 33). 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 onions. 
2 tomatoes, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 tablespoon ful chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoonful grated Parmesan 
cheese. 



Peel and chop the onions finely. Melt 1 oz. butter in a saucepan, put in the 
onion, and fry a golden brown. Cut the tomatoes in small pieces, add them to the 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



423 



fried onion, cook for a few minutes, then moisten with the Espagnole sauce ; season 
to taste with pepper and salt. Cut the cold mutton into neat slices, removing the 
fat, place them in the prepared sauce, and allow it to simmer gently for ten minutes. 
Then take up the slices of mutton, and arrange them neatly on a fireproof dish. 
Add the chopped parsley to the sauce, and pour it over slices of mutton ; sprinkle 
the surface with grated Parmesan cheese and 1 oz. butter, oiled. Place in a hot 
oven until the surface is nicely browned. Take up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons 



1 lb. cold mutton. 
3 oz. butter. 



1 tablespoonful grated 
Parmesan cheese. 



1,445. SCALLOPS OF MUTTON. 

a few breadcrumbs. I salt. 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. ' pepper. 

Cut the cold mutton into small pieces, taking away all fat and gristle. Mix 
the chopped parsley, pepper, and salt with the cold meat. Rub some scallop- 
shells over with butter, and place some of the meat in each. Melt the butter, pour 




Fig. 98. — Scallops of Muttos 



some over each scallop, and sprinkle the surface with Parmesan cheese and a few 
breadcrumbs. Place in a hot oven until brown. Dish on a napkin on a hot dish, 
and serve immediately. 

Average cost, 5d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 20 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,446. PILAU OF COLD MUTTON. 

J Ib.'cold mutton. , 2 slices bacon. 1 2 onions. chopped parsley. 

3 oz. butter. | 1 quart stock. I 6 ozs. rice. | salt and pepper. 

Melt 2 ozs. butter in a saucepan, put in the rice, and stir over the fire until a 
pale brown. Then moisten with 1 quart of stock, stir again over the fire until 
the rice is tender and the stock nearly absorbed. More stock must be added if it 
boils away before the rice is tender ; season with pepper and salt. Cut the mutton 
into neat slices, fry them slightly in | oz. butter. Then lay them on the top of 
the cooked rice in the pan, placing some of the rice on the top of the meat. Cover 
with the lid of the saucepan, and let it cook gently for twenty minutes. Peel the 
onions, cut them in[^rings, and fry in J oz. butter until a golden brown. Take them 



424 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

up, drain, and put aside to use as a garnish. Cut the bacon into strips, fry them, 
and keep them also for garnish. Take up the mutton, make a bed with the rice on 
a hot dish, arrange the slices of mutton neatly on it, and garnish round the dish 
with alternate groups of fried onion and strips of bacon. Sprinkle the top with a 
little finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d., exclusive of mutton. Time required, 1 hour. In season all 
the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,447. RUSSIAN PATTIES. 



cold sweetbread. 
3 mushrooms. 
\ oz. butter. 



1 onion. 
I gill stock. 
J oz. flour. 



1 teaspoonful chopped 

parsley. 
J lb. short pastry. 



legg. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Chop the onion finely, fry it a golden brown in the butter ; mix in the flour and 
stock, and stir over the fire until very thick. Cut the cooked sweetbread into small 
pieces. Cook the mushrooms in the oven with a little butter, then cut in pieces 
the same size as the sweetbread. Add both these, and also the parsley, to the 
onion, flour, and stock. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Roll the pastry 
out about I inch thick and cut into rounds 2 inches across. Place a small portion 
of the sweetbread mixture in the centre, brush round the edges of the pastry with 
beaten egg, and then bring the paste up from each side of the circle and pinch it 
together in the centre. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven for 
ten to fifteen minutes. Serve dished in a pile, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of sweetbread. Time required, 30 minutes. In 
season all the year. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,448. COLD PORK A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

f lb. cold pork. 
1 oz. butter. 
^ pint stock. 



potatoes. 

\ oz. flour. 

3 yolks of eggs. 



12 preserved mushrooms. J lemon. 

1 dessertspoonful chopped salt, 
parsley. pepper. 

Cut the pork into nice sHces, removing all the fat. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
mix in the flour, add the stock, and stir over the fire until the sauce boils. Put the 
sHces of pork in this, also the mushrooms, finely chopped, and heat thoroughly. 
Mash some cold potatoes over the fire with a Httle butter ; make it into a border 
on a hot dish, arrange the shces of pork on it, and place in the oven to keep warm. 
Strain the sauce into another pan, add the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire unti] 
the eggs are cooked ; it must not be allowed to boil or the eggs will curdle. When 
tliick, add the juice of half a lemon and the chopped parsley. Coat the shces of 
pork with this sauce, and also pour some round the dish. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of pork. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
September to April. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 

Well-cooked vegetables are wholesome and easy of digestion, and are of great 
importance as adjuncts to the daily dinner. At one time this branch of cookery 
was not given much attention by the EngUsh cook, but of late years more care has 
been devoted to the subject, especially as we are now following the foreign method 
of serving vegetables as a separate course, these dishes forming a distinctive part of 
the dinner. 

A few rules for the successful cooking of plain boiled vegetables may prove 
useful. 

All green vegetables should be put into fast boiling water, and brought up to 
the boiling-point as quickly as possible, and the water kept boiling until the vegetables 
are cooked. Plenty of water should be used. 

Salt should be added to the water in which vegetables are boiled in the proportion 
of one tablespoonful to two quarts of water. 

In order to preserve the colour of green vegetables, they should boil with the 
lid off. 

Boil the vegetables exactly the right time ; if they are overdone their appearance 
and nutritive properties are destroyed, if underdone they are indigestible. 

Vegetables should be drained thoroughly as soon as done, and served very hot. ~ 

ARTICHAUTS (ARTICHOKES) 

1,449. ARTICHAUTS A LA BARIGOULE (ARTICHOKES, BARIGOULE STYLE). 



4 small globe artichokes. 

Italian sauce (No. 41). 

J gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 

1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. 



3 shallots. 
^ carrot. 
J turnip. 
1 onion. 



i gill white wine. 
^ pint brown stock, 
bouquet garni. 
2 ozs. butter. 



4 ozs. fat bacon. 
8 mushrooms. 
3 ozs. raw ham. 
pepper and salt. 



Cut off the stalks of the artichokes, remove the outer leaves, and trim the tops 
of the other leaves, wash them, remove some of the centre leaves, and scoop out 
the chokes. Blanch them for five minutes, drain, and let them get cold. Chop 
the shallots. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped shallots, and fry 
them without browning. ]\Iince the mushrooms, the ham, and 2 ozs. of fat bacon ; 
add these to the shallots. When the mushrooms are cooked, stir in the -vvdne, and 
reduce to one quarter ; moisten with the tomato sauce and the same quantity of 
Itahan sauce, cook all together for a few minutes, then add the parsley, and season 
to taste. Stuff the artichokes with this preparation. Put a sHce of thin bacon 
over the top of each artichoke and tie round with string. Cut the onion, carrot, 
and turnip into shces, hne a stewpan with some pieces of fat bacon, place on this the 
shced vegetables and the bouquet garni, lay the stuffed artichokes on the top, add 
the stock, cover with a buttered paper, put on the hd of the pan and braise them 
for about forty-five minutes to one hour. As soon as the artichokes are cooked, 
remove the string and bacon, anti place them on a hot dish. Strain the hquor from 
the braise, take off the fat, reduce, and then add to it some Itahan sauce. Pour some 
over the artichokes, and serve the rest separately. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, U hours. Seasonable, January to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

425 



426 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,450. ARTICHAUTS A L'lTALIENNE (ARTICHOKES WITH ITALIAN SAUCE). 

4 artichokes. Italian sauce (No. 41). lemon. 

2 ozs. butter. a few slices of onion and carrot. salt. 

1 gill stock. 1 glass wliite wine. pepper. 

Prepare the artichokes by removing the stalk and trimming the leaves, then cut 
them in quarters and remove the fibrous part, rub them with lemon to prevent their 
turning black, parboil them for a few minutes, and then drain. Melt 2 ozs. of butter 
in a stewpan, put in the shces of vegetable, place the quartered artichokes on the 
top, season with pepper and salt, add the wine, put on the fire, and reduce for a 
few minutes ; then add the stock. Put the pan in the oven, and cook until the 
artichokes are tender. Dish on a hot vegetable dish in a pjrramid, strain the liquor 
from the braise, take off the fat, reduce it, and add some Italian sauce. Pour over 
the artichokes, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, January to April. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,451. ARTICHAUTS BOUILLIS A LA HOLLAND AISE (BOILED ARTICHOKES 

WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE). 
6 small artichokes. | lemon. | salt. | Hollandaise sauce (No. 101). 
Cut off the stalks of the artichokes, remove the outer leaves, and trim the other 
leaves ; wash them in water mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little salt, in 
order that they may not blacken ; tie them round with string, and plunge them 
into plenty of fast boihng water, shghtly salted. Cook quickly until done (the time 
of cooking varies according to the quality of the vegetable from thirty to sixty 
minutes). Drain them, take off the string, and place on a hot dish on a napkin. 
Send to table with a tureen of Hollandaise sauo^. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 riour. Seasonable, January to April- 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,452. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS (ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS). 

These can be obtained preserved in bottles and tins, and are extremely useful 
when the fresh vegetable is not in season. 

There are two ways of preparing artichoke bottoms from the raw vegetable. 

1. Take six medium-sized artichokes, cut off two-thirds of the upper part, 
remove the stem, and with the handle of a spoon scoop out the fibrous part ; trim 
the bottoms nicely, rub them over with lemon-juice, and put them into water con- 
taining a good squeeze of lemon-juice (this is to prevent them blackening, which 
they are apt to do). When the bottoms have been all prepared, cook them in boifing 
water with a httle salt for about thirty to forty minutes. 

2. Remove the stems and outer leaves, trim the bottoms, and rub them with 
lemon to prevent them discolouring. Cut the tops of the artichokes and the tip of 
each leaf. Cook them in boihng salted water ; let them be rather underdone. Scoop 
out the fibrous part with the handle of a spoon, trim the bottom of each artichoke 
nicely, put them into boihng water containing a pinch of salt and the juice of half a 
lemon, boil for five or six minutes. 

Average cost, 4d. each artichoke. Time required, according to size and quality 
of vegetable, 30 minutes to 1 hour. Seasonable, January to April. 

1,453. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS AUX CHAMPIGNONS (ARTICHOKE 
BOTTOMS WITH MUSHROOMS). 



8 artichoke bottoms. 

1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 50). 



\ lb. fresh mushrooms. 
1 oz. butter. 



2 egg-yolks, 
stock. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Turn out some preserved artichokes, or, if preferred, the fresh globe artichokes 
can be prepared. Peel the mushrooms, wash anu chop them finely. Melt the butter 



.^■^■^>-. 




■5 

CL, 
to 



Cu 

X 
3 
(0 

«; 

ii 

(U 

H 

TJ 

(0 

(U 

s 

H 
o 

Q- 

o 
-X3 



I ^ 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



427 



2 teaspoonfuls curry powder. 


2 hard-boiled egg- 


salt. 


1 tablespoonful grated cheese. 


yolks. 


cayenne. 


1 dessertspoonful chutney. 


2 sardines. 


1 oz. butter. 


breadcrumbs. 


fried croutons. 


1 shallot. 



in a small stewpan, put in the mushrooms, and cook them for a few minutes, then 
add the yolks ; season Avith pepper and salt. Just before the dish is required, heat 
the artichokes in stock, sprinkle over them a little salt and pepper, fill them with 
the mushroom mixture. Have ready the Madeira sauce, pour it on to a hot dish, 
and dress the artichokes on it. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required. 20 minutes. Seasonable always ; if fresh 
artichokes are used, January to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,454. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS KARIS A LA MORNAY (CURRIED 
ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, MORNAY STYLE). 

8 artichoke bottoms. 
1 gill Bechamel sauce 

(No. 4). 
1 anchovy. 

Chop the shallot finely, rub the egg-yolks through a sieve, bone the sardines 
and anchovy, scrape off the scales, chop them very finely. Melt the butter in a 
stCAA'pan, put in the shallot, and fry a golden colour. Now add the curry-powder, 
fry for a few minutes, then add the sardines, anchovy, hard-boiled yolks, and chutney, 
mix all well together ; season with salt and a Uttle cayenne. Season the artichokes 
(preserved ones) with salt, pepper, and a pinch of curry-powder. Fill them with 
the mixture, put on a buttered baking-tin, cover \vith the sauce, sprinkle over with 
grated cheese and a few breadcrumbs, place a tiny piece of butter on each, and put 
in a sharp oven for about five minutes to brown. Dish up on a hot dish, pour 
some sauce round, garnish with fried croutons of bread, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,455. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS FARCIS AUX MARRONS (ARTICHOKE 
BOTTOMS STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS). 



8 artichoke bottoms, 
brown sauce (No. 6). 



8 chestnuts. stock. I 1 oz. butter. salt, 

meat-glaze. stick celery. I \ onion. pepper. 

SUt the chestnuts on their flat side, put them into the oven for a few minutes 
to roast until the outer shell can be removed, then put them into boiUng water in 
order to be able to peel off the under skin. When this has been done, place them 
in a ste^ijan, add enough stock to well cover them, the stick of celery, and onion, 
bring to the boil, and cook gently until soft. Strain the chestnuts, and pass them 
through a fine sieve with the piece of celery. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, 
put in the puree of chestnuts, make hot, and add a httle brown sauce, salt, and pepper. 
Care must be taken not to make the mixture too moist. Heat the artichokes in 
stock, take up and drain, season with salt and pepper, and fill them Avith the chestnut 
puree ; shape it with the blade of a knife to a dome shape. Brush over with meat- 
glaze. Pour some brown sauce on a dish, dress the artichokes on it, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
February ; if fresh artichokes are used, January and February. 



12 artichoke bottoms. 
2 ozs. cooked fillet of chicken. 
1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce 
(No. 4). 



1,456. BEIGNETS D'ARTICHAUTS A L'ESPAGNOLE (ARTICHOKE FRITTERS). 

1 oz. cooked ham. | 1 oz. butter. salt. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. fried parsley. popper. 

Espagnolo sauce (No. 33). frjdng fat. 1 oz. flour. 

1 tablespoonful milk. 1 shallot. 1 

Chop the cooked chicken and ham finely. Mince the shallot, 
in a ste\vpan, put in the shallot, and fry Avithout browning ; then add the chopped 
chicken and ham, mix with the Bechamel sauce, season nicely ^\^th salt and pepper, 
and turn on to a plate to cool. Next prepare some frying batter. Sieve 1 oz. of flour 
into a basin, add the yolk of the egg and the milk, mix thorouglily, stir in the oil. 



Melt the buttei 



428 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



and beat all well together ; add a pinch of salt, and just before frying beat the 
white of the egg very stiffly and stir it hghtly into the batter. Drain and wipe 
the artichokes, season them hghtly, and fill with the chicken mixture. Place them 
together two and two, so that the meat is between, run a small wooden skewer 
through each, so as to keep them together, dip each one into the batter, and drop 
them into very hot clarified fat. When a golden brown, lift them out, drain on 
paper, take out the skewer, and dish them on a hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve hot. A tureen of Espagnole sauce should be sent up separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d., without chicken. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable 
always if preserved artichokes are used ; globe artichokes are in season January to 
April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,457. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA VENITIENNE. 



8 artichoke bottoms, 
terrine of foie-gras. 



slice of tongue. 
1 gill whit© stock. 



salt, 
pepper. 



J lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). 1 truflfle. 
1^ giUs Madeira sauce (No. 50). 1 oz. butter. 

Cook the artichoke bottoms, or use the preserved ones. Turn the foie-gras 
out of the jar, remove the fat and the truffle. Chop the latter finely ; pass the foie- 
gras through a fine sieve, mix the truffle with it. Wash and dry the artichokes, 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and fill them with the puree of foie-gras. Spread 
with the chicken forcemeat ; shape into the form of a dome with a knife dipped in 
warm water. Chop one truffle fkiely, also the sfice of tongue, cover four of the 
eoated artichokes thickly with the chopped tniffle and the other four with the tongue. 
Butter a baking-tin with butter, place the artichokes on it, pour the stock round, 
cover with buttered paper, and put into the oven and cook for ten to fifteen minutes. 
Heat up some Madeira sauce, pour a small quantity on a hot dish, dress the arti- 
chokes on it, and serve very hot. The rest of the sauce can be served separately. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times ; if fresh 
vegetables are used, January to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,458. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA DUXELLE (ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS 

STUFFED). 



8 artichoke bottoms. 
Madeira sauce (No. 50). 
chopped parsley. 



1 shallot. 

2 ozs. butter. 
6 mushrooms. 



salt, 
pepper. 
1 tomato. 



1 tablespoonful sherry. 

^ gill demi-glaze sauce (No. 29). 

1 tablespoonful breadcrumbs. 

Chop the shallot, prepare the mushrooms, wash and chop them finely. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot, and cook without browning. Add the 
chopped mushrooms, cook until their moisture has evaporated, then add a pinch 
of chopped parsley and the sherry, reduce a Uttle ; then mix in the demi-glaze 
^auce and the chopped tomato, season with salt and pepper, and stir in the bread- 
crumbs. Cook over the fire until of a right consistency. Take eight preserved 
artichoke bottoms, drain, wash, and dry them ; season with salt and pepper, stuff 
them with the above preparation. Arrange them on a buttered baking-tin, sprinkle 
3, few breadcrumbs over, place a tiny bit of butter on each, and put in a hot oven to 
brown. Dish up, and serve with Madeira sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times ; 
if fresh vegetables are used, January to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



1,459. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA MORNAY (ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, 

WITH MORNAY SAUCE). 

^ oz. butter. 

1 tablespoonful cream. 

breadcrumbs. 



1 oz. grated cheese. 



pepper. 

salt. 



6 artichoke bottoms. 

1 giU Momay sauce (No. 1 10). 

1 small terrine of foie-gras. 

Drain the artichoke bottoms, wash and wipe them, season Ughtly with salt and 
pepper. Turn the foie-gras out of the jar, take out the truffle, which will be found 
embedded in it, rub the foie-gras through a sieve, chop the truffle finely, and mix 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



429 



it with the puree of foie-gras, stir in the cream, and season to taste. Fill the arti- 
chokes with this mixture, put them on a buttered tin, cover with Mornay sauce ; 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and a few brown-bread crumbs, place a small 
piece of butter on each, and cook in a sharp oven for a few minutes until brown y 
and hot through. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times ; if fresh 
artichokes are used, January to April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,460. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA POLONNAISE. 

12 artichoke bottoms. 
1 cauliflower. 



2 gills Mornay sauce (No. 110). 
Parmessm cheese. 



h oz. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



pepper, 
salt. 



Boil the cauHflower, drain, and cool. Divide the flower of the cauHflower into 
email pieces. Season the artichokes with salt and pepper, fill them %vith the cauh- 
flower, cover each one with Mornay sauce, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan 
cheese, then a few brown-bread crumbs, put a small piece of butter on each, place 
them on a buttered baking-sheet, and cook in a sharp oven until brown. Dish up, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times ; if 
fresh artichokes are used, January to April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 99. — Fonds d'Artichauts a la Monaco. 



1,461. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA MONACO. 



6 artichoke bottoms. 
1 hard-boiled egg. 
J oz. butter. 



\ gill cooked asparagus points. 
\ teaspoon ful parsley, tarragon, 
and chervil. 



2 tablespoonfuls Espagnole 

sauce (No. 33). 
breadcrumbs. 



parsley. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Prepare the artichokes, or obtain the preserved ones ; if the latter, turn them 
»ut of the bottle carefully, so as not to break them. Drain, wash, and dry them ; 
«eason with salt and pepper. Chop the hard-boiled egg finely. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the cooked asparagus points, the hard-boiled egg, the chopped 
herbs, and the Espagnole sauce, season to taste, mix all together carefully. Place 
the artichokes on a buttered baking-sheet, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle with 
breadcrumbs, place a small bit of butter on each, and cook in the oven for about 
five or six minutes. Dress them on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always ; if fresh 
artichokes are used, January to April. Sufficient for 3 to 6 persons. 



430 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,462. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA FLORENTINE (ARTICHOKE 

BOTTOMS WITH SPINACH). 

12 artichoke bottoms. I 1 lb. spinach. I J gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

1 onion. salt. , grated cheese. 

2 ozs. butter. I pepper. I 1 gill Momay sauce (No. 110). 

Procure a bottle of preserved, artichoke bottoms, drain and wash them. Melt 
the butter, chop the onion, fry it in the butter without browning. Cook the 
spinach, drain it, press out the water, and rub it through a fine sieve ; add this to 
the fried onion, mix well, and make thoroughly hot ; season with salt and pepper ; 
add about \ gill of Bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Season 
the artichokes with a sprinkle of salt and pepper, and stuff them with the mixture ; 
butter a baking-tin, arrange the artichokes on it, coat them with Mornay sauce, 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, and place them in a hot oven to 
glaze. Dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times; if 
fresh artichokes are used, January to April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

TOPINAMBOURS (JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES) 

1,463. TOPINAMBOURS BOUILLIS (BOILED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES). 

2 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes. | juice of lemon, i \ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | salt. 

Wash the artichokes, peel them thinly. Have ready a basin of cold water, con- 
taining the juice of the lemon and a little salt ; this is done to prevent them turning 
black by exposure to the air. For the same reason it is advisable to use a lined 
saucepan, if possible. Have ready the saucepan with boiling water, seasoned 
with salt. As soon as boiling, drop the artichokes into it, and boil from twenty to 
thirty minutes ; when done, drain them, arrange them in a vegetable dish, pour 
the Bechamel sauce over, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1.464. TOPINAMBOURS FRITS (FRIED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES). 

1 lb. Jerusalem artichokes. | butter. I salt. | lemon -juice. 

Wash the artichokes, peel them thinly, and as soon as ready put them into a 
basin of cold water containing some lemon-juice and a little salt. Then cook them 
in boiling salted water until nearly done, drain them, and let them get cold. Cut 
the artichokes in thin slices. Melt some butter in a saute-pan, and, when hot, put 
m the slices of artichokes, and fry them a nice brown. Sprinkle a little salt over 
them, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost of artichokes, lid. or 2d. per pound. Time required, 35 minutes. 
Seasonable, October to February. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.465. TOPINAMBOURS A L'lTALIENNE (JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, 

ITALIAN STYLE). 
2 lbs. artichokes. | 2 ozs. salt butter. | pepper. | salt. | juice of 1 lemon. | \ pint stock. 

Wash and peel the artichokes, trim them round, giving each artichoke the shape 
of a pear, place them, when ready, into a basin with cold water to cover, containing 
lemon-juice and a small quantity of salt. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
artichokes, sprinkle over some salt and pepper and a good squeeze of lemon-juice. 
Add the stock, and simmer gently with the lid on for half an hour. As soon as they 
are soft, dish them on a hot vegetable dish, pour some of the sauce in which they 
have been cooking over each artichoke, and serve hot 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



431 



1,466. TOPINAMBOURS AU RISOTTO (JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

WITH RISOTTO). 



2 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes. 6 ozs. rice. 1 teaspoonful Bovril. \\ gills tomato sauco 

1 small onion. 2 ozs. butter. 1 oz. grated Parmesan (No. 77). 

2 pints stock. lemon. cheese. chopped parsley. 

Wash the artichokes, peel them, and as they are peeled put them into a basin 
of cold water to which the juice of a lemon has been added ; let them stand in this 
for fifteen minutes, then boil them in salted water. Drain well, put them back 
into the steAvpan, and add to them h pint of stock, and keep hot until required. Melt 
the 2 ounces of butter in a stewpan, chop the onion and add it, fry without browning, 
put in the rice, stir a few minutes, then moisten with H pints of stock. Boil until 
the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock ; this will take about thirty to forty 
minutes ; the rice must be constantly stirred whilst cooking. Now stir in the Bovril, 
^ gill of tomato sauce, cheese, and seasoning. Cook for a few minutes, then fill up 




Fig. 100. — Topinamboues au Eisotto. 

a well-greased border-mould ; press the rice well into it. When ready to serve, 
turn it out on to a hot dish, arrange the artichokes in the centre, pour the tomato 
sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,467. TOPINAMBOURS A L'ESPAGNOLE (JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

WITH ESPAGNOLE SAUCE). 



1 lb. artichokes, 
lemon-juice. 



\ pint Espagnole sauce I pepper. 
(No. 33). I salt. 

Wash and peel the artichokes, throw them when done into a basin of cold water 
containing lemon-juice and a httle salt. Have ready a saucepan of salted boiling 
water, put in the artichokes, and boil them until tender. Drain well, and dish 
them ; make the Espagnole sauce hot, and strain it over them ; garnish with a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to January. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

PT. VI. 28 



432 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,468. TOPINAMBOURS AU GRATIN (JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES AU 

GRATIN). 



2 ]bs. artichokes. 



lemon -juice. 
1 oz. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



milk. 
J gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). ^ Parmesan cheese. 

Wash, peel, and put the artichokes in cold water containing lemon-juice and 
salt. Have ready boiling in a saucepan sufficient milk and water to cover them, 
boil until they are quite soft, drain, and rub them through a hair-sieve, then mix 
into them the Bechamel sauce. Put on to a shallow dish, sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese, put a few bits of butter here and there, place in a hot oven or 
under a salamander to brown the top, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,469. BEIGNETS DE TOPINAMBOURS (JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE 

FRITTERS). 



1 lb. artichokes. 

2 ozs. flour. 
2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful milk. 
1 tablespoonful salad oil. 
brown sauce (No. 6). 



fried parsley. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Wash and peel the artichokes, drop them into salted cold water with lemon- 
inice. Cook them in boiling water containing a little salt and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice. When done, drain them, and let cool. Next prepare the batter. Sieve 
the flour into a basin with a pinch of salt ; add to it the yolks of the eggs, the milk and 
oil ; mix all well together until it is smooth, then beat for ten minutes. Whip the 
whites of the egg very stiffly, and stir them into the batter when ready to fry. 
Have ready a pan of clarified fat, make it very hot, then dip the artichokes one at 
a time into the batter ; drop them into the boiling fat, and fry a golden brown. 
Lift out on to kitchen paper to drain. Dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with 
fried parsley. Send a tureen of sauce to table with them separately. The 
artichokes, instead of being cooked in batter, could be egg-and-bread crumbed and 
fried a golden brown. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



2 lbs. large artichokes. I 2\ gills Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
J lb. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham. 

1 lemon. | J gill stock. 



1,470. TOPINAMBOURS FARCIS (STUFFED JERUSALEM 

ARTICHOKES). 

2 ozs. butter. 

salt. 

pepper. 

Wash and peel the artichokes, trim each to the shape of a pear, cut a piece off 
the end of each, so that they will stand, throw them as soon as ready into a basin of 
cold water containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon. Put them into a 
stewpan containing sufficient boiling water to cover them, and cook for about 
twenty to thirty minutes. Drain, and let them cool. Chop the cooked chicken and 
ham very finely, put the meat into a mortar and pound, add about l^gill of Bechamel 
sauce, season with salt and pepper, and pass through a sieve. Scoop the centres 
out of the artichokes with a vegetable cutter, fill the hollows with the chicken 
mixture. Arrange the stuffed artichokes in a buttered baking-tin ; add the J gill 
stock. Cover with a buttered paper, and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Dish 
up in a circular row on a hot cQsh, pour the 2 gills of sauce over and round them, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, without chicken, lOd. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, 
October to February. Sufficient for 6 persons 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 433 

ASPERGES (ASPARAGUS) 

1,471. TO PREPARE ASPARAGUS FOR COOKING. 

Remove the loose leaves, scrape the stems, cut the ends so as to have them all 
the same length, put them into a basin of cold water, wash them carefully and 
quickly ; tie them in small bundles, taking care that the heads are all of equal size. 
Put the asparagus in salted boiling water, sufficient to cover them in a saucepan 
large enough to hold the asparagus ; care must be taken not to break the heads. 
This vegetable takes about twenty minutes to cook. 

1,472. ASPERGES A LA MILANAISE (ASPARAGUS, MILAN STYLE). 
1 bunch asparagus. | 2^ ozs. butter. | grated Parmesan cheese. 

Cook the asparagus in boihng water ; drain the vegetable well, butter a dish, 
place on it a row of asparagus, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, then some 
more asparagus, and then more cheese ; continue in this way until the asparagus 
is all used up. The cheese should be sprinkled over the heads. Put 2 ounces 
of butter in a stewpan, cook it until of a nut-brown colour, pour this over the heads, 
and glaze slightly in front of the fire or under a salamander. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. for 100 heads, in full season. Time required, 30 to 35 
minutes. Seasonable, February to July. Sufficient (100 heads) for 8 persons. 

1.473. CROUSTADES AUX ASPERGES. 

6 small rolls. 1 oz. butter. I pepper. 

2 gills asparagus points. ^ gill whipped cream. I salt. 

Wash the asparagus, cut in small pieces, boil until tender in boiling salted water, 
drain carefully. Cut the top off each roll, scoop out the inside, the soft crumb, 
and dry them for a few minutes in the oven. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 
the tips, and toss them in it ; season with salt and pepper, mix the cream with 
them, fill the rolls, and dish them on a napkin or dish-paper, garnish with parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, February to July. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.474. ASPERGES A LA POLONNAISE. 

1 bunch asparagus (100 heads). 3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 3^ ozs. butter. 

1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. | oz. breadcrumbs. salt. 

Wash, trim, and boil the asparagus ; drain thoroughly. Rub ^ ounce of butter 
on a dish, place on it a layer of asparagus ; pass the yolks of the eggs through a sieve, 
mix them with the parsley ; sprinkle the asparagus heads with this, place another 
layer of the vegetable on the top, and continue in this way until the asparagus is 
used up, sprinkhng each layer in the same way as the first. Put the rest of the 
butter (3 ounces) in a stewpan, cook it over the fire until it becomes nut-brown, 
add the breadcrumbs to it, and pour this over the heads ; serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s., in full season. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
February to July. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

1,475. ASPERGES A LA MOUSSELINE (ASPARAGUS WITH MOUSSELINE 

SAUCE). 

1 bundle asparagus. [ ^ pint Hollandaise sauce. | 1 gill cream. | salt. 

Wash the asparagus, tie it up in small bundles, cut the stems so as to make them 
all the same length. Place them in a large stewpan with plenty of salted boiling 
water, and cook until tender. Drain, untie the bundles, and dish them on a hot 
dish. Heat the Hollandaise sauce, but do not let it boil ; stir in the cream, and 

28—2 



434 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

make hot without boihng. Pour this sauce over the heads of the asparagus, or, if 
preferred, send to table separately in a sauce-tureen. 

Average cost, 2s. to 3s. Time required, 20 to 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
February to July. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons (100 heads). 

1,476. POINTES D'ASPERGES EN PETITS POIS (ASPARAGUS 

TIPS AS PEAS). 
1 bunch small green asparagus (sprue), 100 heads. | butter. | salt. 
Clean and wash the asparagus, cut the tops in small pieces to represent good- 
sized peas, cook them in plenty of boiling water seasoned with salt. When cooked, 
drain well. Melt some butter in a stewpan, put in the tips, toss them in it, and 
season with salt. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 to 20 minutes. Seasonable, January to 
July. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,477. ASPERGES A LA HOLLANDAISE (ASPARAGUS, HOLLANDAISE 

SAUCE). 

1 bundle asparagus. ] Hollandaise sauce (Xo. 101). | salt. 

Clean and trim the asparagus, tie up in small bundles, cut the stems so that 

they are all the same length, place these in boihng salted water in a good-sized 

stewpan, and boil until tender. Drain carefully ; untie the bundles, place them 

on a slice of dry toast on a hot dish, and serve the sauce in a tureen separately. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. for 100 heads, in full season. Time required. 20 to 
30 minutes, according to size. Seasonable, February to July. Sufficient (100 heads) 
for 8 persons. 

AUBERGINES (EGG-PLANTS) 

1,478. AUBERGINES FARCIES (STUFFED EGG-PLANTS). 

2 medium-sized egg-plants. 1 6 mushrooms. I 2 ozs. butter. parsley. 

J small onion. ' J lb. cooked meat. | tomato sauce. seasoning. 

Cut the aubergines in halves lengthwise, cook them in salted boiling water until 
tender. Drain them, and scoop out the pulp ; chop this up, also the onion ; melt 
the butter in a stcAvpan, fry the onion without browning, and then mix with the 
pulp ; chop the meat and the mushrooms, add these, season with salt and pepper, 
mix all together thoroughly. Fill the halves of the aubergines with this stuffing, 
put a few bits of butter here and there, sprinkle over a few breadcrumbs, and 
place in the oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, dish up on a hot dish, 
garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Send to table with the vegetable, a sauce- 
tureen of tomato sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. Time to prepare, 45 minutes. Seasonable in spring and 
summer. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,479. AUBERGINES AU GRATIN (EGG-PLANT, AU GRATIN). 



1 egg-plant. J pint Momay sauce 



butter. 



(No. 110). 



breadcrumbs. 

grated Parmesan cheese. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Peel the egg-plant, boil in salted boihng water until tender, drain well, and cut 
in shces h inch thick ; butter a gratin-dish, put a layer of the Mornay sauce on it, 
place on that the shces of egg-plant, season wdth salt and pepper, and cover with the 
sauce, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, put a few bits of 
butter on the top, and bake in a sharp oven until brown. Send to table in the dish 
it was baked in. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable in soring and 
summer. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 435 

1,480. AUBERGINES GRILLEES (GRILLED EGG-PLANT). 

1 egg-plant. ! mustard. i breadcrumbs. | butter. | pepper. | salt. 

Cut the egg-plant in slices i inch thick, season them with salt and pepper and 
a little made mustard, cover with breadcrumbs, and grill them for eight to ten 
minutes over a moderate fire. Dish up on a hot dish ; melt some butter in a small 
^ stew^an, pour this over, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable in spring and 
summer. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



VEGETABLE MARROW 

1,481. STUFFED VEGETABLE MARROW. 

1 vegetable marrow. 1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 1 raw yolk. I pepper. 

1 oz. ham. J lb. cooked rabbit. j butter. i salt. 

Chop the rabbit-meat and ham very finely, put them into a saucepan, and mix 
with the Bechamel sauce, season with salt and pepper, mix in the raw yolk, stir 
over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Peel the marrow, cut it in half lengthwise, 
remove the seeds, put the halves in salted boiling water, and cook for about ten 
or twelve minutes ; take up, drain, and let. them cool. Butter a baking-tin, put the 
marrow on it, fill each half with the prepared stuffing, sprinkle a few breadcrumbs over 
each, place a few bits of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for ten to 
fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,482. VEGETABLE MARROW AU GRATIN. 

2 marrows. | | oz. flour. | 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 1 salt. 

IJ ozs. butter. | J pint milk. I breadcrumbs. ! pepper. 

Peel the marrows, cut them in quarters, take out the seeds, then cut into con- 
venient pieces, boil them in salted water. Put 1 ounce of butter into a stewpan ; 
when melted, mix in the flour, add the milk, and stir over the fire until it boils ; 
season nicely with salt and pepper, and then stir in 1 ounce of cheese. As soon as 
the marrows are cooked, drain them thoroughly, arrange them on a hot dish, and 
pour the sauce over ; sprinkle over the remaining 1 ounce of cheese and some 
breadcrumbs, put on the top a few bits of butter, and place in a hot oven to brown. 
Serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,483. STEWED VEGETABLE MARROW. 



1 medium-sized marrow. 

2 ozs. butter. 



\ pint melted- butter sauce 
(No. 43). 



popper, 
salt. 



Peel the marrow very thinly, cut it in quarters, take out the seeds, and slice it 
into pieces about 1 inch square. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the marrow, 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then cover with the Ud of the pan ; draw to 
the side of the fire, and let it stew gently until the marrow is tender ; it should be 
stirred occasionally. When done, sprinkle over a httle salt and pepper, dish it 
up on a hot dish, and serve the melted-butter sauce separately. This way of 
cooking marrows is preferable to plain boiling, as they are of a better flavour, and 
not so watery. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



436 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1.484. VEGETABLE MARROW A L'ESPAGNOLE. 
1 vegetable marrow. | 3 tomatoes. | 1 onion. | 2 ozs. butter. | J pint stock. | salt. ( pepper. 

Peel the onion, and slice it. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, and 
fry without browning ; slice the tomatoes, add them to the onion, and cook a little. 
Peel the marrow, cut it in quarters, take out the seeds, and slice it into pieces 
about 2 inches square ; add these to the onion and tomato, season with salt and 
pepper, add the stock, and stew gently until the marrow is tender. When the 
marrow is sufficiently cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, place the onion and tomato 
over it, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, \ hour. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,485. VEGETABLE MARROW A LA LYONNAISE. 

1 marrow. | 2 onions. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1 gill stock. | chopped parsley, i pepper. | salt. 
Peel the marrow thinly, cut it into round slices h inch thick, take out the seeds. 
Peel the onions, and slice them. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onions 
and fry them a light brown ; then add the slices of marrow, season with pepper 
and salt, add the stock, and cook gently until tender. When done, dish the marrow, 
pour the sauce and onions over it, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve hot. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

BETTERAVES (BEETROOTS) 

1,486. BETTERAVES BOUILLIES (BOILED BEETROOTS). 

beetroots. | salt. 

Wash the beetroots without breaking the skin ; they must not be cut or scraped, 
or the skin broken, or the colour will be spoilt. Put them into a saucepan of 
boiling water, add some salt, and boil them for one and a half to two hours, according 
to size ; if very large, longer than this. Take them up when done, and let them cool ; 
peel them, cut in thin slices, and serve either plain or with vinegar poured over, 
and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Average cost, l|d. to 3d. each. Time required, IJ to 2 J hours, according to size. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for — number uncertain. 

1,487. BAKED BEETROOT. 

1 beetroot. | butter. | pepper. | salt. 

Wash the beetroot thoroughly, but be careful not to break the skin or even to 
cut away any of the fibres. Place on a baking-sheet, and put into a rather slow 
oven ; when cooked whole they will take five or eight hours to bake. When done, 
they can be served hot with butter, pepper, and salt, or served cold, cut in slices. 
Beetroots done in this way are very wholesome, and are rich and sweet in flavour, 
though less bright in colour than when boiled. 

Average cost, l|d. to 3d. each. Time required, 5 to 8 hours, according to size. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons 

1,488. BETTERAVE A LA CREME (BEETROOT WITH CREAM). 
1 large cooked beetroot, i J pint stock. | 1 yolk of egg. | 1 gill cream. | pepper. | salt. 
Take a large beetroot, peel it, and cut in slices ; put it into a stewpan with the 
stock and seasoning, stew it gently until quite hot. Strain off the stock. Dress 
the beetroot on a hot dish ; put the stock back into the saucepan. Whip the yolk 
of the egg with the cream, add this to the stock, place it on the fire, and bring to the 
boil, but it must not actually boil. Pour this sauce over the beetroot, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time to prepare, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



LEGUMES [VEGETABLES) 437 

1,489. BETTERAVE SAUTE (SAUTED BEETROOT). 
1 cooked beetroot. | 2 ozs. butter. | pepper. | salt. 

Peel the beetroot, cut it into slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, 
put in the slices of beetroot, season with salt and pepper, and toss over the fire 
until the slices are thoroughly hot ; cook for about five or six minutes. Dish them 
in a hot vegetable dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time to prepare, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

GAROTTES (CARROTS) 

1,490. GAROTTES A LA FLAMANDE (CARROTS, FLEMISH STYLE). 

J oz. flour. 1 dessertspoonful chopped 

2 egg-yolks. parsley. 

J gill cream. pinch of castor sugar. 

Select young spring carrots for this dish, wash and scrape them, cut each one 
in quarters. Put the carrots into a stewpan of salted boiling water, and cook 
them for about ten minutes, then drain them. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in 
the carrots, sprinkle them with the flour, salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, toss 
them in the butter for about five minutes ; stir in the stock, draw to the side of the 
fire, and simmer gently for about fifteen minutes ; stir occasionally. As soon as 
the vegetables are cooked, draw away from the fire, and let them cool for a minute ; 
beat the yolks of eggs with the cream, stir into the carrots, and cook gently until 
the eggs are done, but do not allow it to boil. Have ready some fried bread 
croutons ; these are cut in three-cornered shapes. Dish the carrots on a hot dish, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, garnish round the dish with the fried croutons of 
bread, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable in the spring' 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1 bunch new carrots. 
1 oz. butter. 
\ pint stock. 



fried bread, 
pepper. 

salt. 



1,491. GAROTTES A L'ANDALOUSE (GARROTS, ANDALUSIAN STYLE). 

6 young carrots. J pint port-wine sauce pinch of sugar. 

2 ozs. butter. (No. 53). salt. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in quarters. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan ; when hot, put in the carrots, sprinkle with salt and sugar, place at the side 
of the fire, and cook slowly ; when three-parts cooked, pour off the butter, and add 
the port-wine sauce. Finish cooking the carrots, dish up on a hot dish, pour the 
sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the spring. Sufficient 
for 2 or 3 persons. 

1,492. GAROTTES BRAISEES (BRAISED GARROTS). 
1 bunch young carrots. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1 pint brown stock. | pinch of sugar. | salt. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in quarters, place them in a stewpan of 
salted boiling water, and parboil them ; strain, and put them into 2 ounces of melted 
butter in a stewpan, fry a golden colour, then add a gill of stock, and braise them on 
the side of the fire for about forty-five minutes ; add the rest of the stock to them 
by degrees. When the carrots are cooked, dish them in a pile on a hot dish, 
remove the fat from the Uquor in the pan, season it, and pour it over the carrots. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the spring. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 



438 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,493. CASSOLETTES DE GAROTTES (CARROT CASSOLETTES). 



2 eggs. 

2 ozs. butter. 



puff- paste. 
1 gill stock. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1 small bunch of carrots. 
1 tablespoonful cream. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in sHces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
put in the carrots, and cook them over the fire for about five minutes, stirring all 
the time ; do not allow them to brown ; pour in the stock, and simmer slowly until 
the carrots are tender. When done, pass through a fine sieve, return the puree 
to the stewpan, beat in the egg-yolks, one at a time, add the cream, season to taste, 
and stir over the fire until the eggs are partly cooked ; take the pan off the fire, 
and let the contents cool a little. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and stir hghtly into the mixture. Roll out the puff-paste, line some small patty- 
pans with it, prick the bottom of each with a fork, fill up with the puree, and bake 
in a brisk oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with 
sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year ; new 
carrots in the spring. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 101. — Cassolettes of Carrot. 



1,494. CAROTTES A LA LILLOISE (CARROTS A LA LILLOISE). 



1 bunch young carrots, 
pinch of sugar, 
salt. 



fried bread croutons. 
2 egg-yolks. 
lemon -juice. 



^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
i gill cream, 
chopped parsley. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them into thick slices. Have ready a saucepan, 
with boiling water shghtly salted, drop the slices of carrot into it, and boil until 
tender. Take them up, and drain them. Warm up the Bechamel sauce, put the 
carrots into this and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. When ready to 
serve, whip the yolks of the eggs, add the cream, and stir it into the carrots ; cook 
the eggs, but do not allow the sauce to boil ; season with salt and a pinch 
of sugar ; add a little chopped parsley and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Have 
ready fried some croutons cut in the shape of triangles. Dish the carrots and 
the sauce on a hot dish, garnish round with the fried croutons of bread, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the spring- 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



439 



1,495. GAROTTES FARCIES (STUFFED CARROTS). 



8 young carrots. 
1 egg-yolk. 



1 gill gr3en-pea j 2^ ozs. butter. salt, 

puree. ' \ pint gravy. pepper. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, put them into a saucepan of boiHng salted water, 
and parboil them. Take up and drain ; let them cool, then hollow out the centre 
of each. Cook sufficient peas to make 1 gill of puree. Melt \ ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, put in the puree of peas, stir until mixed, season with salt and pepper, 
and stir in the beaten yolk of egg. Mix thoroughly, and allow to cool. Put this 
puree into a forcing-bag with a pipe attached, and fill the centres of the carrots 
with it. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the stuffed carrots, cover 
with the lid of the pan, and cook gently for a few minutes, then add the gravy, and 
simmer until the carrots are cooked. Dish up in a pile, or in a circle, on a hot dish ; 
remove the fat from the liquor in the pan, and pour it round the carrots. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the spring. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 




Fig. 102. — Carottks Farcies. 



8 young carrots. 
1 pint water. 



1,496. CAROTTES A LA VICHY (CARROTS, VICHY STYLE). 

1 oz. sugar. j i oz. salt. 

2 ozs. butter. | chopped parsley. 

Wash, scrape, and slice the carrots, put them into a stewpan with the butter, 
melted, the salt and sugar ; add the water, and cook gently until the water has 
nearly all evaporated ; toss the carrots in this reduced liquor until they are well 
coated. Dish them on a hot dish, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the spring. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,497. SOUFFLES AUX CAROTTES (CARROT SOUFFLfiS). 



1 bunch young carrots. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



i gill stock or milk. 

3 eggs. 

salt. 



pepper. 

pinch of castor sugar, 

ramequin -cases. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in quarters, and boil them in plenty of 
salted water until tender. When cooked, drain well, and rub the carrots through a 
fine sieve. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, moisten with tho 
stock or milk, boil until very thick, mix in tiie carrot puree, take it o£E the fire, 



440 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



and let it cool a minute, then beat in one at a time the three yolks of eggs ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar ; beat well. Put the three whites of eggs 
I into a basin, whisk them well until very stiff, stir these lightly into the rest of the 
mixture. Butter some ramequin-cases, fill the cases within \ inch of the top with 
the souffle mixture, place them on a baking-tin, and put in a moderate oven for 
about ten to fifteen minutes. Dish up when done, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable in the spring. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,498. PETITES TIMBALES DE CAROTTES (LITTLE MOULDS 

OF CARROTS). 



8 large carrots. 
1 whole egg. 



1 yolk of egg. 
Bechamel sauce. 



butter, 
stock. 



1 hard-boiled white 
of egg. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Wash the carrots, and slice off the red part of them. Melt some butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the pieces of carrot, and cook them in it for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly ; add some white stock, and cook until tender. Drain well, and rub 
through a fine sieve. Return the puree to the stewpan, add the whole egg and the 
yolk, stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Butter some small timbale-moulds, 




Fig. 103. — Petites Timbales db Garottes. 

decorate the bottom of each with a star of hard-boiled white of egg, fill up with the 
carrot mixture, and cook in a slow oven in a baking-tin containing water for fiflceii 
to twenty minutes. Before putting them in the oven, cover with a buttered paper. 
When done, turn out on to a hot dish, pour hot Bechamel sauce round, and serve. 
Average cost, 9d. Time required, H hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



CELERI (CELERY) 

1,499. CELERI A L'ANGLAISE (BOILED CELERY WITH WHITE SAUCE). 

2 heads of celery. | J oz. flour. | 1 pint milk. | 1 oz. butter. ' salt. | pepper. 

Cut off the outside pieces of celery, wash it well in cold water, then cut the 

celery into pieces about 4 inches in length ; wash again so as to remove any grit 

there may be. Put the milk into a stewpan, and as soon as it boils, put in the 

celery, add a Uttle salt, and cook until the celery is tender ; it will take about thirty 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 441 

minutes to cook. When the celery is done, drain it well, place it on a hot dish. 
Strain off the milk ; melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, 
, and bring to the boil, stirring all the time ; simmer gently for a few minutes ; season 
to taste with salt and pepper, pour the sauce over the celery, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2 heads of celery. 
2 ozs. butter. 
^ onion. 



1,500. CELERI BRAISE (BRAISED CELERY). 

^ carrot. 1 pint stock. 

a slice or two of turnip. 1 8 croutes of bread. 

salt. pepper. 

Wash the celery thoroughly in cold water, cut off the outer leaves, and trim the 
roots neatly, tie each head round with string. Place them in a stewpan, cover 
with cold water, bring to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. Take up the heads, 
and drain well on a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put into that the prepared 
vegetables (onion, carrot, and turnip), cut in sUces ; place the celery on the top, 
cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the stewpan, and cook gently for about 
fifteen minutes ; then add the stock, and simmer gently for about one hour, adding 
more stock if necessary. Fry eight croutes of bread, cut in heart-shapes, in boiling 
fat. As soon as the celery is ready, take it up, drain it well, cut each head into 
quarters, dish each piece on one of the fried croutes, and dress them on a hot dish 
in a circle in the same way as cutlets. Strain the liquor in the pan, take o£E the 
fat, reduce to half -glaze, and pour it over the celery ; serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,501. CfiLERI A L'ESPAGNOLE (CELERY WITH ESPAGNOLE SAUCE). 



2 heads of celery. J pint white stock. ^ pint Espagnole sauce 



1 oz. butter. 



(No. 33). 



salt, 
pepper. 



toast. 

Wash the celery in cold water, take off the outer leaves, and trim the roots ; 
wash again in salted water. Drain well on a sieve, and cut in 4-inch lengths. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the celery, and add the white stock ; cover with 
a piece of buttered paper, put on the lid of the pan, and cook slowly for about 
forty-five minutes to one hour, then add the Espagnole sauce, season with salt and 
pepper, and put the pan in the oven for twenty minutes. Have ready a slice of 
toasted bread ; drain the celery, arrange it on the toast. Take the fat off the sauce, 
reduce a little, and pour it over the celery. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, l| hours. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,502. PUREE DE CELERI (PUREE OF CELERY). 

3 heads of celery. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). i bread croutons. I salt. 

2 ozs. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. I milk. I pepper. 

Wash the celery thoroughly, take off the outer leaves, cut up the heads into 
short lengths, put them into cold water containing a little salt ; wash again well, so 
as to remove any grit there may be. Have ready boiling in a stewpan sufficient 
milk and water in equal quantities to cook the celery ; it should be well covered. 
Boil until the celery is tender, then drain well, and rub it through a hair sieve. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the puree, mix together, then add the Bechamel 
sauce ; stir until thoroughly hot, season to taste, and add the cream. Cut some 
bread in small triangular shapes, fry them in boiling fat. Dress the celery on a 
hot dish, arrange the croutons round the dish, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



442 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,503. CELERI A LA VILLEROI (CELERY A LA VILLEROI). 



2 heads of celery. 
1 pint stock, 
salt. 



cayenne. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

lemon-juice. 



1 whole egg. 

breadcrumbs. 

fried parsley (No. 195). 



^ pint Bechamel sauce 

(No. 4). 
1 tablespoon ful cream. 

Wash the celery, cut away the outer leaves, and trim the root ; put them into a 
saucepan of cold water, and parboil them for ten minutes ; drain them on a sieve or 
cloth. Put the stock into a saucepan, make hot, add the celery, and braise over a 
slow fire for about one hour. When tender, drain them thoroughly, cut each head 
in quarters lengthwise, trim to about 6 inches in length. Heat the Bechamel sauce, 
reduce until very thick, let it cool for a few minutes, then add the yolks of the eggs 
and the cream ; bind over the fire, but do not let the sauce boil ; season with salt, 
a pinch of cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Mask each piece of celery with 
this sauce ; let them get cold and set ; beat up the egg on a plate, dip the pieces 
of celery in it, and then toss in breadcrumbs ; do this twice. Have ready a pan of 
smoking, clarified fat, place the pieces of celery in a frying-basket, plunge it into 
the fat, and fry them a golden colour. Drain on a cloth ; dish them on a folded 
napkin arranged on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,504. CELERI AU JUS (CELERY WITH GRAVY). 

1 head of celery. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 large tomato. | | pint beef or mutton gravy. | salt. | pepper. 
Wash the celery, cut it into pieces about 4 inches in length ; wash these again, 
place them in a saucepan of water, and parboil them Drain well ; melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the pieces of celery, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. 
Cut the tomato in slices, add it to the celery, pour over the gravy, put on the lid 
of the pan, and place by the side of the fire to simmer gently until the celery is 
quite tender. When done, take out the celery, dress it on a hot dish, strain the 
sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,505. CELERI AU CROOTONS A LA VELOUTE (CELERY ON CROOTONS, 

WITH VELOUTE SAUCE). 



2 heads of celery. 2 ozs. bacon, 
small piece of mace. \ bouquet garni. 



^ carrot. ^ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). salt and pepper. 



1 onion. 



slices of fried bread or toast, stock. 



Trim the roots of the celery, remove the outside pieces, and wash thoroughly ; 
cut them into 6-inch lengths, and tie together ; have ready a saucepan of boihng 
water, put in the celery, and boil for ten minutes. Take up the celery, and drain. 
Cut the bacon in thin shces, put it in a stewpan in a layer, peel the onion, scrape the 
carrot, cut them in slices, put these on the bacon, add the mace, bouquet garni, 
salt and pepper, place the celery on these, pour in the stock, put on the Hd, and 
simmer gently until tender. Have the veloute sauce ready made by the time the 
celery is done, and also some pieces of bread cut to the same length as the celery, 
ind fried a golden brown. Place these croutons on a hot dish, take up the celery, 
drain well, and dress it on the fried croutons ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, October to Febiniary. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,506. CELERI AU PARMESAN (CELERY WITH CHEESE). 



1 head of celery. 

2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. 



1^ gills Bechamel sauce, i stock. 

1 oz. butter. breadcrumbs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Wash the celery, remove the outside sticks, cut the celery in small pieces about 
1 inch long, put them into a saucepan containing boiling stock ; boil until tender ; 
it will take about twenty minutes. When done, take it up and drain. Melt the 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



4i5 



butter in a stevvpan, put in the celery, toss over the fire, then add the sauce 
two-thirds of the cheese, stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed and hot. Tu. 
out on a dish, sprinkle with the remainder of the cheese and a few breadcrumbs, 
put in a hot oven to brown the top, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,507. 

1 head of celery. 

2 ozs. flour. 
2 eggs. 



fried parsley (No. 195). 
clarified fat (No. 197). 
pepper. 



BEIGNETS DE CELERI (CELERY FRITTERS). 

1 tablespoonful salad-oil. 
salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Wash the head of celery, cut off the root, separate the white stalks, cut them 
into 3-inch lengths, throw them into cold water containing a little salt, wash them 
free from grit. Have ready a stewpan of boiling salted water, put in the celery, 
and boil it until tender. Take it up, drain it thoroughly on a sieve or cloth. Sieve 
the flour into a basin, add to it the two yolks of eggs, the milk, and salad-oil, mix 
well together until smooth, and beat for ten minutes, add a pinch of salt and one 




Fig. 104. — Beignets de Celeri. 

of pepper. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the 
batter just before frying. Heat the clarified fat in a stewpan, dip each piece of 
celery into the batter, lift out with an iron spoon, and drop it into the fat ; continue 
until the celery is all used up ; take up and drain the fritters on kitchen paper 
Dish up in a pile on a folded napkin or dish-paper arranged on a hot dish, garnish, 
with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time to prepare, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 

Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,508. SOUFFLES DE C£LERI (CELERY SOUFFLES). 

1 head of celery. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 

\ pint milk. 1 oz. flour. salt and pepper. 

Wash the celery, trim it, and cut it into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan with 
Kifficient cold water to cover, and bring to the boil. Take up, drain, and put it 
into a stewpan with the milk, and cook until tender. Strain the celery, and pass 
it through a hair-sieve. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour add 
the milk left after the celery was cooked (if not sufficient to make 1 gill, make up 



442 






♦J Uli-HjlCXJ. U~rtrL — «»-^»^*- 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

water), boil well, stirring quickly for a few minutes until the 
sides of the saucepan clean ; add to this the puree of celery ; 

id let it cool for a few minutes, then beat in, one at a time, the 
season with salt and pepper. Whisk the whites of the egg? 

't into the mixture. Lightly butter some paper or china ramequin- 

fill them with the souffle mixture. Bake in a moderate oven for 
When done, place the cases on a dish, with a napkin folded or 

end to table as soon as possible. 

)d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
J 8 ramequin-cases. 



CHAMPIGNONS (MUSHROOMS) 

1,509. CHAMPIGNONS FARCIS (STUFFED MUSHROOMS). 

12 cup mushrooms. 2 ozs. butter. 1 oz. chopped ham. 1 dessertspoonful chopped i breadcrumbs. 
3 or 4 mushrooms. 2 shallots. ^ gill brown sauce. parsley. I salt and pepper. 

Peel the mushrooms, remove the stalks, wash and dry the mushrooms. Chop 
the shallots, melt 1 ounce of butter in a small stewpan, put in the chopped shallots 
and fry them without browning ; add the three or four mushrooms chopped, the 
ham, parsley, salt, and pepper, mix all well together, then dilute with the brown 
fiauce. Stuff the mushrooms with this mixture, place them on a buttered baking- 
tin, sprinkle over them a few breadcrumbs, and put on each a piece of butter ; 
bake for ten minutes in a brisk oven, dish up, and serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.510. CHAMPIGNONS AU BEURRE (MUSHROOMS IN BUTTER). 

12 cup mushrooms. | 2 ozs. butter. ] buttered toast. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stems, wash, and dry. Melt the butter in a 
■stewpan, put in the mushrooms, and fry them until done ; season with salt and 
pepper. Serve them on squares of buttered toast, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1.511. CHAMPIGNONS A LA CREME (MUSHROOMS IN CREAM). 
1 lb. mushrooms. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | 1 gill cream. | pepper. 

Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stems, wash, drain, and dry them. Melt the 
butter in a stewpan, put in the mushrooms, and cook them over a moderate fire until 
done ; season with salt and pepper, and add the cream ; cook a little longer, then 
•dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,512. CHAMPIGNONS SAUTES (SAUTED MUSHROOMS). 

12 large mushrooms. | 2 ozs. butter. | juice of 1 lemon. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel and wash the mushrooms, put them into a basin of water containing the 
juice of the lemon. Dry them on a cloth. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 
the mushrooms, and toss them in it until cooked ; season with salt and pepper. 
Dish on a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



1 lb. mushrooms. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 415 

1.513. CHAMPIGNONS A LA BORDELAISE (MUSHROOMS, BORDEAUX 

STYLE). 

1 gill demi-glace sauce 2 ozs. butter. salt. 
(No. 29). 2 shallots. cayenne. 

Peel the mushrooms, wash, and dry them on a cloth. Melt the butter in a 
Btewpan, chop the shallots, put them in the butter ,and fry without browning ; then 
add the mushrooms, and cook them quickly over the fire ; season with a little salt 
and a tiny dust of cayenne-pepper ; stir in the chopped parsley, add the sauce, 
mix over the fire until thoroughly hot, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,514. CHAMPIGNONS A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED MUSHROOMS). 
12 cup mushrooms. | salt. | black pepper. | cayenne. | 2 ozs. butter. 

Remove the stalks from the mushrooms, peel, wash, and dry them. Melt the 
butter in a saute-pan, put in the mushrooms, and cook them in the butter. When 
done, lift them out on to a hot dish, and sprinkle each one with salt, black pepper, 
and a pinch of cayenne. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,515. CHAMPIGNONS A LA PROVENCALE (MUSHROOMS, PROVENCE 

STYLE). 

chopped parsley. 

lemon-juice. 

cayenne. 

Peel the mushrooms, remove the stalk, wash, and dry them. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan ; chop the shallots, fry in the butter until done, but do not let them 
brown ; put in the mushrooms, and stir over a quick fire until cooked. Add the 
brown sauce, parsley, lemon-juice, cayenne, and a little salt ; cook all together for a 
few minutes, dish up on a hot dish, arrange triangular croutons of fried bread 
round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 lb. button mushrooms. 

2 ozs. butter. 

2 chopped shallots. 



fried croutons. 

1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

salt. 



1,516. CROQUETTES DE CHAMPIGNONS (CROQUETTES OF 

MUSHROOMS). 



\ lb. mushrooms. J gill thick Bechamel 



1 oz. butter. 



sauce (No. 4). 



2 egg-yolks. I breadcrumbs. 
1 whole egg. I fried parsley. 



salt 
pepper. 



Peel the mushrooms, wash, and dry them, scrape the stems, and chop up the 
whole of the mushrooms, stalks as well as the other part. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan, put in the mushrooms, and cook over the fire ; add the sauce, bind with 
the yolks of eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on 
to a plate, and put it away in a cool place to get cold and set. When quite cold, 
■divide the mixture into equal portions, take each part and shape it into the form 
of a cork ; continue to do this until the mixture has all been used up. Beat up 
an egg on a plate, put in the croquettes, brush them all over with egg, and then 
toss in breadcrumbs ; roll and shape them again with the hand, flatten the ends, 
and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. Take up, drain on paper, dish in the form 
of a pyramid on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



446 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,517. CORBEILLES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (MUSHROOM BASKETS). 

^ lb. button mushrooms, j 1 shallot. 1 J teaspoonful parsley. I salt. 

\ lb. short paste. I 1 oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful cream. 1 pepper. 

Peel the mushrooms, remove the stalks, wash, drain, and dry them. Chop the 
shallot finely, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped shallot, and fry 
without browning. Cut the mushrooms into cubes, add them to the shallot, and 
cook for a few minutes ; season with salt and pepper, drain away some of the butter, 
add the cream, stir over the fire until hot, but do not boil. Roll the short paste 
out thinly, line some fluted patty-pans with the paste, cut out some rings of pastry, 
cut each in half, arrange them on a baking-tin ; these half-rings form the handles 
to the baskets. Fill the lined patty-pans with raw rice, and bake in a hot oven. 
When done, let cool, remove rice, fill these cases with the mushroom mixture, 
sprinkle a little parsley on the top of each, fasten the handles across, using a little 
batter for the purpose, put in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,518. COQUILLES DE CHAMPIGNONS AU GRATIN (BAKED MUSHROOMS 

IN SHELLS). 

1 lb. mushrooms, j 1 shallot. breadcrumbs. pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. ! ^ gill cream. grated Parmesan cheese. salt. 

Peel, wash, drain, and dry the mushrooms ; chop the shallot. Melt half the 
butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot, and fry Ughtly ; then add the mushrooms, 
cut in quarters ; cook, and when done, stir in the cream ; season with salt and pepper. 
Butter six shells Hghtly, put in each some of the mushroom mixture, sprinkle over 
some breadcrumbs and grated cheese, put a few bits of butter on each, and put in the 
oven to brown the top. When done, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
SufScient for 4 or 5 persons. 



CHOUX'FLEURS (CAULIFLOWERS) 

1,519. CHOU-FLEUR BOUILLI (BOILED CAULIFLOWER). 

1 cauhflower. | J pint melted butter sauce (No. 43). | salt. 

Cut the stalk of the cauliflower, take off the outside leaves, but leave on the 
green leaves next the flower ; put the cauhflower into cold water, with about a 
tablespoonful of salt, and let it remain in it for half an hour ; this is done in 
order to draw out the insects, if there are any. Have ready a saucepan with plenty of 
boiling water, with a Uttle salt ; put in the cauliflower, with the head down, bring 
quickly to the boil, and cook gently until tender, leaving off the lid of the saucepan. 
When the vegetable is cooked, take it up, and drain well. Dish the cauliflower in 
a hot vegetable dish, have the sauce ready, pour it over the flower, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required after soaking, 20 to 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
May to November. Sufficient for 2 to 4 persons. 

1,520. CHOU-FLEUR AU BEURRE NOIR (CAULIFLOWER WITH BLACK 

BUTTER). 

1 cauliflower. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. I pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. \ teaspoonful chopped parsley. | salt. 

Trim and boil the cauliflower as in previous recipe ; when it is tender, drain, 
and cut it into six or eight pieces ; dish it neatly. Melt the butter in a small frying- 
pan, let it cook until it has acquired a nut-brown colour, then take it o5 the fire 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 447 

and add to it the vinegar and parsley. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the 
cauliflower, pour the black butter over, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,521. PETITES TIMBALES DE CHOUX-FLEURS (LITTLE TIMBALES OF 

CAULIFLOWER). 

2 cauliflowers. 1 slice beef tongue. J oz. butter. 

1 whole egg. 1 tablespoonful cream. salt. 

2 yolks. Bechamel sauce (No. 4). pepper. 

Boil the cauhflowers ; drain, and rub them through a fine sieve ; use some 
of the green leaves, so that the puree may be slightly green. Melt the butter in a 
stew-pan, put in the puree of cauhflower, mix until hot ; put in the eggs previously 
beaten, season with salt and pepper ; add the cream, make hot, but do not boil ; 
mix thoroughly. Butter some little timbale-moulds, and place at the bottom of 
each a piece of ox-tongue cut out with a fancy cutter ; fill up the moulds with the 
cauHflower puree, cover with buttered paper, put them on a baking-tin containing 
a little water, and steam in a slow oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them 
out on a hot dish, and pour Bechamel sauce round. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 moulds. 

1,522. CHOU-FLEUR A LA POLONAISE (CAULIFLOWER, POLISH STYLE). 

1 cauliflower. I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

2 hard-boiled egg-yolks. 1 oz. grated cheese. 

Trim the cauHflower, put it into a basin of cold water with some salt, let it soak 
for half an hour, then boil it until tender ; drain thoroughly. Butter a dish ; set 
the cauHflower on it. Chop the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, mix them with the 
parsley, and sprinkle this over the cauHflower. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a small 
frying-pan, cook it over the fire until it has acquired a nut-brown colour ; take off 
the fire, put in a pinch of parsley, add to this the breadcrumbs fried in 1 ounce of 
butter, and pour over the cauliflower just before serving. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,523. CHOU-FLEUR A LA FLORENTINE (CAULIFLOWER, FLORENTINE 

STYLE). 
1 cauliflower. | flour. | beaten egg. | breadcrumbs. | salt. | pepper. 
Cook the cauliflower in the usual way in salted boiling water ; let it get cold, 
then divide into flowerets ; roU each of these in flour, dip in beaten egg, toss in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat or butter. Dish up in a pile on a folded napkin, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,524. MOUSSE DE CHOU-FLEUR A LA DUBARRY (MOUSSE OF 

CAULIFLOWER). 



3 ozs. butter. 

\ oz. breadcrumbs. 



1 large head of cauliflower. \ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

1 oz. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



3 eggs. 

Trim and soak the cauHflower in salted water for about one hour, then boil 
it with some of the tender green leaves attached in salted boiHng water until done. 
Take it up, drain weU, and let it get cold ; press it in a cloth, so as to free it from 
water; rub through a hair-sieve. Reduce the Bechamel until thick. Melt the 
butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the puree of cauHflower ; mix and then add 
the sauce ; season with salt and pepper ; stir all well together. Take the pan off 
PT. VT. 29 



us THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

the fire ; beat in, one at a time, the yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, and stir them Hghtly into the mixture. Butter shghtly some china or 
paper ramequin-cases, fill them two-thirds full with the mixture, put them into a 
cool oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. As soon as the little souffles are cooked 
serve them at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, forty-five minutes. Seasonable, May to 
November. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,525. CHOU-FLEUR AU GRATIN A L'INDIENNE (BAKED CAULIFLOWER, 

INDIAN STYLE). 



1 large cauliflower. ) 1 teaspoonful curry-powder. J pint melted-butter 

' " ' sauce (No. 43). 



salt, 
cayenne. 



1 oz. butter. | 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 

Boil the cauhflower in salted boiling water, taking care not to cook it too much. 
Lift it out carefully when cooked, and drain thoroughly. Butter a fireproof dish, 
place the cauhflower on it ; season with salt and pepper. Put into a stewpan 
I ounce of butter ; when melted, stir in the curry-powder, fry a minute, then add 
the sauce ; stir over the fire until hot and smooth, then add half the cheese to it ; 
cook a Httle longer, season to taste with salt and a pinch of cayenne, pour this sauce 
over the cauliflower, sprinkle with the remainder of the cheese, put a few bits of butter 
on the top, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,526. CHOU-FLEUR AU GRATIN (BAKED CAULIFLOWER). 



1 large cauliflower. 
IJ ozs. butter. 



f oz. flour. i IJ ozs. grated cheese. | salt. 
I pint milk. | breadcrumbs. | pepper. 



Boil the cauliflower in salted boiling water, taking care not to overcook it. 
When cooked, lift it out of the saucepan carefully, drain it thoroughly, and place 
on a fireproof dish well buttered. Melt 1 ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir in the 
flour, add the milk, and bring to the boil, stirring meanwhile ; simmer for five 
minutes, then season with salt and pepper, and add 1 ounce of cheese ; pour this 
sauce carefully over the cauliflower, sprinkle with grated cheese and a few bread- 
crumbs, put a few bits of butter on the top, and place in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,527. CHOU-FLEUR A LA VILLEROI (CAULIFLOWER, VILLEROI STYLE). 

1 cauliflower. 1 J pint Villeroi sauce (No. 84). | 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. | clarified fat (No. 197). 

Boil the cauliflower in salted boifing water. Take it up when done, drain, and 
cool. Divide the cauliflower into flowerets, dip them into Villeroi sauce, place them 
on a dish that has been rubbed over with oil, and let them get thoroughly cold and 
set, then dip in egg, and toss in breadcrumbs ; do this twice. Fry them in very hot, 
clarified fat or lard a golden brown. Dish up in a pile on a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, May to November. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

CHOUX (CABBAGES) 

1,528. CHOUX SAUTES AU BEURRE (CABBAGE SAUTED IN BUTTER). 

2 cabbages. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. 

Cut off the stalk of the cabbage, remove the outside leaves, divide into quarters, 
and cut away the hard stalk. Put the cabbage into a basin with plenty of cold 
water, add some salt, and let it soak for haK an hour. Put on to the fire a large 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 449 

saucepan of water, add some salt to it, and bring to the boil ; put in the cabbage, 
and let it come to the boil quickly ; keep it boiling with the lid of the saucepan off ; 
skim off the scum as it rises. As soon as the cabbage is soft, drain it in a colander, 
press it well to get rid of all the water, then turn on to a board, and chop it small. 
Melt the butter in the saucepan, put in the cabbage, and mix it well with the butter 
until thoroughly hot again ; season with salt and pepper. Turn it into a hot vege- 
table-dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2d. to 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, different 
varieties, all the year round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,529. CHOUX DE BRUXELLES SAUTES AU BEURRE (BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

SAUTED IN BUTTER). 
1 lb. Brussels sprouts. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. 

Trim the sprouts, take off the outside leaves if discoloured, throw them into a 
basin of cold water containing a little salt, wash, and drain. Have ready a saucepan 
of boiling water, add some salt to it, put in the sprouts, boil them until tender ; 
strain and press as much of the water out as possible, taking care not to break the 
sprouts. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sprouts, toss them in it until 
thoroughly hot, season with salt and pepper, dish up in hot vegetable-dish, and serve. 
Average cost, 3d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
Pebruary. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



1,530. CHOU FARCI (STUFFED CABBAGE). 



salt and pepper. 

fat bacon. 

\ chopped small onion. 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
^ pint stock. 



1 Savoy cabbage. I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
\ lb. sausage-meat. | \ teaspoonful tarragon and chervil. 
6 cooked chestnuts. 1 \ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 

Take a firm, medium-sized Savoy cabbage, cut away the outer leaves, remove 
the stalk, wash it well in salted water, and then parboil the cabbage for ten minutes. 
Drain \Aell, and let it cool. Take out the inner leaves — do this with a long, sharp 
knife at the stalk end — mix the chopped herbs, onion, and seasoning with the 
-sausage-meat ; shell, peel, and cook the chestnuts, pass them through a sieve ; mix 
these with the rest of the ingredients, stir all well together, and stuff the cabbage 
with it. Wrap the cabbage in slices of fat bacon, tie it round with string. Cut 
the onion and carrot in slices, put them at the bottom of a stewpan, place the 
cabbage on it, add the stock, and braise for one hour or longer. When done, drain 
the cabbage, untie the string, remove the slices of bacon, and dress the cabbage 
on a hot dish. Reduce the braising liquor, take off all grease, add to it the brown 
sauce, boil up, and pour a Uttle of this over the cabbage ; send the remainder of 
the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,531. PAUPIETTES DE CHOUX FARCIS (STUFFED CABBAGE). 



6 cabbage-leaves. 

\ lb. cooked minced beef. 

\ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



I small onion. ; salt. 
1 carrot. i pepper. 

^ pint stock. I onion. 



2 ozs. cooked rice. 
^ teaspoonful parsley, 
fat bacon. 

Wash and parboil the cabbage-leaves for ten minutes ; cook the rice in stock ; 
chop the half-onion ; add the rice, chopped onion, and parsley to the minced beef ; 
season highly. Stuff the cabbage-leaves with this mixture, roll each one up. Slice 
the onion and carrot, put these into a ste%ypan, place the rolls on them, add the 
stock, season with salt and pepper, and cover over with a few sHces of fat bacon ; 
place on the Hd of the pan, and braise for thirty minutes or longer. When cooked, 
drain the rolls, strain the stock from the braise, skim off the fat, and reduce, then 
add the sauce ; season, boil up, and pour over the rolls. 

Average cost, 9d., without the meat. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, 
♦October to March. Sufficient for 6 rolls. 

29—2 



450 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

CHOU.DE^MER (SEAKALE) 

1,532. CHOU-DE-MER A LA CREME (SEAKALE WITH CREAM SAUCE). 

1 basket seakale. | 1 lemon. j 2 yolks of eggs. | salt. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). I \ gill cream. toasted bread. | pepper. 

Trim off the root of the seakale, wash it well in cold water with salt to free it 
from grit. When ready to cook, arrange the pieces, and tie them in bundles. 
Have ready a stewpan large enough to contain the seakale, three-parts fill with 
water, season with salt and the juice of a lemon ; bring to the boil, put in the 
seakale, and cook until tender ; it will take thirty to thirty-five minutes, or even 
longer. When done, take it up, drain thoroughly, untie the bundles, and dish 
the seakale on a shce of toasted bread. Warm up the Bechamel sauce ; mix the 
egg-yolks and cream together, stir it into the sauce ; bind, but do not let the sauce 
boil after the eggs and cream are added ; season to taste with salt and pepper, add 
a squeeze of lemon-juice, pour this sauce over the seakale, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, seakale, lOd. to Is. a basket. Time required, 20 to 45 minutes, 
according to quality. Seasonable, February to June. Sufficient (12 heads) for 
3 or 4 persons. 

1,533. CHOU-DE-MER A L'ESPAGNOLE (SEAKALE WITH ESPAGNOLE 

SAUCE). 

1 basket seakale. I lemon -juice. salt, 

toasted bread. | 3 gills Espagnole sauce (No. 33). pepper. 

Wash the seakale in salted water containing lemon-juice, free it from grit, 
trim the root, place the pieces together, and tie in bundles. Have ready a stewpan 
of boiUng water, add to it a httle salt, and put in the bundles of seakale, bring 
quickly to the boil, and cook until three-parts done. Then strain off the water, 
add the Espagnole sauce, and continue the cooking until the seakale is quite tender. 
Drain the vegetable well, dish it on a slice of toast on a hot dish, strain the sauce 
over, and serve. This vegetable should always be served very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. to Is. per basket. Time required, 20 to 45 minutes, according 
to quahty. Seasonable, February to June. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,534. CHOU-DE-MER A LA HOLLANDAISE (SEAKALE WITH 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE). 

1 basket seakale. | ^ pint Hollandaise sauce (No. 101). | salt. 

Wash the seakale free from grit in salted water containing lemon-juice, trim the 

root, place the pieces together, tie in a bundle, boil in salted water until tender. 

When done, drain well, dish up, untie the string, pour over the Hollandaise sauce, 

and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. to Is. per basket. Time required, 20 to 45 minutes. 
Reasonable, February to June. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

CONCOMBRES (CUCUMBERS) 

1,535. CONCOMBRES A L'ESPAGNOLE (CUCUMBERS WITH ESPAGNOLE 

SAUCE). 

2 cucumbers. 3 gills Espagnole sauce (No. 33). salt. 

2 ozs. butter. chopped parsley. pepper. 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them in halves lengthways, take out the seeds, place 
them in a stewpan with sufficient salted water to cover, and boil for five minutes. 
Then take the cucumbers up, drain them well, and cut each half -cucumber into 
quarters ; let them cool. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the 



2 yolks of eggs. salt. 

k gill cream. i pepper, 

juice of ^ lemon. I croutons. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 451 

pieces of cucumber, and fry them for a few minutes, then add to them the Espagnole 
sauce, and finish cooking ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Take off the fat 
as it rises. When cooked, dish the cucumbers on a hot dish in a pile, boil up the 
sauce once more, strain it over the cucumbers, garnish with a httle chopped 
parsley sprinkled over, and serve hot. 

x\verage cost. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

1,536. CONCOMBRES A LA POULETTE (CUCUMBERS, POULETTE STYLE). 

2 cucumbers. 1 gill Bechamel sauce 

2 ozs. butt«r. (No. 4). 

stock. 1 teaspoon ful parsley. 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them in halves lengthways, and take out the seeds ; 
cut them into shces about an inch in length. Parboil the sHces of cucumber in 
salted water for ten minutes, then drain well, and cool. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the cucumber, and fry them for five minutes over a slow fire ; stir 
during the time they are frying, but be careful not to break the shces, then add 
a little stock, and cook until tender. When done, drain away the Uquor from the 
pan, add the sauce, simmer for a few minutes, then add the yolks of the eggs and 
the cream beaten together ; bind over the fire, but do not boil ; season with salt 
and pepper ; add the lemon-juice and parsley. Dish the cucumber on a hot dish, 
pour the sauce over, garnish round with triangular pieces of fried bread, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Id. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to 
September. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

1.537. CONCOMBRES A LA CREME (CUCUMBERS IN CREAM). 

1 cucumber. | 1 oz. butter. | J gill cream. | i gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the cucumber, cut in halves, and take out the seeds ; cut each half into 
pieces about 1 inch long, keeping them all the same size. Parboil them in salted 
water for ten minutes, drain thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 
the pieces of cucumber, season with salt and pepper, cover with the hd of the 
ste\\^an, put over a slow fire, cook until the cucumber is tender, very slowly, 
then add the sauce and the cream ; shake the pan well while the sauce is coming 
to the boil. Season to taste. Dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle a httle chopped parsley 
over, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable, May to 
September. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. 

1.538. BEIGNETS DE CONCOMBRES (CUCUMBER FRITTERS). 

1 cucumber. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. 2 eggs. j salt. 

2 ozs. flour. 1 tablespoonful salad-oil. fried parsley (No. 195). | pepper. 

Peel the cucumber, cut it in half, take out the seeds, and cut the halves into 
slices about an inch in length, and parboil them in salted water for ten minutes. 
Take up, drain, and let the pieces cool. Sieve the flour into a basin, add the yolks 
of the eggs, the milk, salt, and pepper, and the salad-oil ; mix all well together to 
a smooth paste, then heat the batter for ten minutes ; let it stand until required. 
When ready to fry, whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; stir them into the 
batter lightly. Have ready heated a pan of clarified fat. When sufficiently hot, 
dip each piece of cucumber into the batter, drop them into the boihng fat, and 
fry a golden-brown colour. Take up the fritters with a shce, place them on kitchen 
paper to drain. Dish in a pile on a dish-paper or folded napkin arranged on a hot 
dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



452 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,539. CONCOMBRE FARCI (CUCUMBER STUFFED), NO. 1 



1 cucumber. 
A pint stock. 



2 

1 oz. 



butter. 



\ lb. quenelle forcemeat (No. 

201). 
^ pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, I 1 onion, 
tarragon, and chervil. 1 carrot. 

2 or 3 mushrooms. I bacon. 



Peel the cucumber, cut it in pieces about 2 inches long. Hollow out the centre 
of each piece of cucumber with a round cutter, taking care not to go right through ; 
the pieces of cucumber thus form cases. Prepare the quenelle forcemeat either 
from raw chicken, veal, or rabbit ; mix with it the chopped herbs and the mushrooms 
chopped finely, and cooked in a little butter. Fill the cucumber cases with the 
forcemeat. Cut the onion and carrot into shces ; place a layer of thin bacon a< 
the bottom of a stewpan, put on this the slices of vegetable, stand the stuffed 
cucumbers on this, add the stock, cover with a buttered paper and the Hd of the 
stewpan, and braise gently for about twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked 
take up, drain, and dish. Strain the Uquor from the braise, take off the fat, reduce 
to half -glaze, then add to it the brown sauce ; season to taste ; bring to the boil, 
simmer for a few minutes, then pour round the dish as much as is necessary ; the 
remainder can be sent to table separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 6 cases. 



1,540. CONCOMBRES FARCIS (CUCUMBERS STUFFED), NO. 2. 



3 cucumbers, 
slices of bacon. 
2 ozs. cooked ham. 



J lb. sausage-meat. 

2 or 3 cooked mushrooms. 

salt and pepper. 



J teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

tarragon, and chervil. 
\ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
I pint stock. 



Peel the cucumbers very thinly, cut them in halves lengthways, scoop out the 
seeds carefully ; parboil the cucumbers for five minutes, then drain and stuff 
them with the sausage-meat mixed with the finely chopped ham, mushrooms, 
herbs, and seasoning ; fill the cavities of the cucumbers level, put the halves 
together again into their original shapes, tie them in place, wrap each cucumber 
in a piece of muslin, and tie round again with string. Line a large stewpan with 
slices of bacon, put over this a layer of carrot and onion cut in slices, season with 
salt and pepper, put in the cucumbers, add the stock, cover with the lid, and braise 
gently for thirty to forty minutes. When done, take them up, unwrap, and dress 
on a dish ; carefully remove the string so as not to disturb the halves. Strain 
the braising liquor into a small stewpan, remove the fat, reduce and add the sauce, 
season to taste, and pour over the cucumbers ; garnish with a little chopped parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, May to September 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. 



1,541. CONCOMBRE FRIT (FRIED CUCUMBER). 



1 cucumber. 



2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 



8 pieces of buttered toast. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the cucumber very thinly, cut in half lengthwise, scoop out the seeds 
carefully, and cut each half in four pieces. Melt the butter in a large frying-pan ; 
make it very hot, then put in the pieces of cucumber, and fry them brown. Have 
ready some sHces of toast ; take off the crust, and trim them to the same size as the 
pieces of cucumber ; butter them, place on each a slice of cucumber, sprinkle over 
a httle salt and pepper, dish up on a hot dish ; stand it in the oven for a few minutes 
to get thoroughly hot, then serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 453 

1,542. CONCOMBRE GLACE (GLAZED CUCUMBER). 
1 cucumber. j 1 pint water. | 1 oz. sugar. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. 

Peel the cucumber, cut in half lengthwise, take out the seeds, and cut into 
1-incli pieces ; put them in a ste^ypan with water to cover, cook for ten minutes ; 
take up, and drain. Now put the pieces of cucumber in a saucepan, add 1 pint 
of water, the sugar, a good pinch of salt, and the butter ; set the pan on the fire, 
and cook until the water has nearly evaporated ; what remains will be the consistency 
of a syrup. Shake the pieces of cucumber about in this until they are well coated. 
Dish up, and serve, or use as a garnish for other dishes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time to prepare, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,543. CONCOMBRES A LA MORNAY (CUCUMBERS WITH 

MORNAY SAUCE). 

2 cucumbers. \ lb. sausage-meat. I ^ pint Mornay sauce (No. 110). ^ pint stock. 1 onion, 

butter. j 2 ozs. fat bacon. I \ oz. grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper. [ 1 carrot. 

Peel the cucumbers thinly, cut them in halves lengthwise, scoop out the seeds, 
? fill them with the sausage-meat ; put the two halves together again, and tie them 
%Aith string. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon ; on this put a layer of sliced 
onion and carrot ; season with salt and pepper, put in the cucumbers, add the stock, 
cover with buttered paper and the lid of the pan, place on the fire or in the oven, 
and cook for twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked, take up, drain, and cut in 
slices ; arrange on a hot dish in a pile, pour the Mornay sauce over, sprinkle with 
grated cheese, put a few bits of butter on the top, and bake in a quick oven till 
brown. Send to table quickly. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, May to 
September. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



EPINARDS (SPINACH) 

1,544. CROQUETTES D'EPINARDS (CROQUETTES OF SPINACH). 
1 lb. spinach. 2 eggs. \ pepper. 



\ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
2 tablespoonfuls cream. 



1 oz. butter, j clarified butter. 

salt. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



Pick and wash the spinach thoroughly, put it into a saucepan with boilins: 
water and a httle salt, boil until tender ; drain well, and press ; chop it finely. 
Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach as soon as the butter is hot, 
stir for a few minutes ; season with salt and pepper. Add the Bechamel sauce, 
vvhich should be thick, also the cream and cheese ; beat up the eggs well, and stir 
them in ; bind over the fire for a few minutes. Heat some clarified butter in an 
omelet pan, and with a tablespoon drop some of the preparation of spinach into 
the fat ; put in two or three at a time, but do not let them touch. When fried on 
one side, turn over carefully with a knife, and cook the other side. Dish up on 
a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required after spinach is cooked, 20 minutes. 
Seasonable, March to December. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 

1,545. EPINARDS AU GRATIN (SPINACH BAKED). 
2 lbs. spinach. | 3 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. grated cheese. | salt. | pepper. 

Pick and wash the spinach ; cook it in plenty of boiling salted water. Wlien 
done, drain and press out the moisture, chop it finely, or pass through a sieve. 
Melt 2 1 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, and when it is hot put in the spinach ; stir it 



454 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



well. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add 2 ozs, of grated cheese, mix all 
well together. Turn out on to a fireproof dish, arrange it neatly, and sprinkle over 
it 1 oz. of grated cheese and the remaining half -ounce of butter, which should be 
melted first. Place the dish in a hot oven to brown. Serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required after spinach is cooked, 20 minutes. Season- 
able, March to December. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,546. EPINARDS A LA CREME (SPINACH WITH CREAM). 
2 lbs. spinach. | 2 ozs. butter. | J gill cream. | 2 hard-boiled eggs. | salt. | pepper. 
Pick the spinach, remove the stalk and the coarse vein at the back of each 
leaf ; wash the spinach thoroughly in several waters to clear it from grit. Cook in 
salted boiling water for about twenty minutes ; leave off the lid of the saucepan. 
When tender, drain, press out the water, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt the 
butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir 




Fig. 105. — Epinabos a la Cbkmb. 



over the fire until the spinach is hot, then add the cream ; mix well. Turn out the 
spinach on to a hot dish, shape it nicely, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 
Serve hot 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, March t«7 
December. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,547. EPINARDS FARCIS (STUFFED SPINACH). 



6 large spinach-leaves, 
salt and pepper. 



J teaspoonful parsley, tarragon, 
and chervil. 



J pint broAvn sauce (No. 6). 
1^ lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 



1 oz. butter. 
1 gill stock. 

Choose some large spinach-leaves, wash them well, blanch them for a minute 
or two in boiling water, then place them in cold water to cool ; drain, and dry 
thoroughly in a cloth. Chop the parsley, tarragon, and chervil finely, mix these 
in with the veal forcemeat, spread this over the leaves, roll them up ; butter a 
baking-tin with the 1 oz. of butter, arrange the rolls on it, pour the stock over, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. 
When done, dress the rolls on a hot dish, and serve brown sauce with them 
separately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to December. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 



455 



1,548. EPINARDS SUR CROOTES (SPINACH ON CROOTES). 



2 lbs. spinach, 
toast. 



1 tablespoonful of cream. 1 oz. butter. 

1 hard-boiled egg. salt. 

Pick the spinach, wash it in several waters to remove all the grit. Have ready 
a saucepan of boiling salted water, put the spinach in, and let it boil, with the 
lid of the saucepan off, until quite tender. Drain the water away, and press the 
spinach well to remove all moisture. Rub it through a fine wire sieve ; melt the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the puree of spinach, the cream, and a little salt if 
necessary ; heat this thoroughly over the fire. Make some toast, cut it into rounds 
about 2 inches across, and pile the prepared spinach on them. Place on a hot 
dish, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to December. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 




FiQ. 106. — Epinakds SUR OroCtes. 



3 lbs. spinach. 
^ gill cream. 



1,549. PETITES TIMBALES D'EPINARDS (LITTLE TIMBALES OF SPINACH).^ 

2 ozs. butter. 2 eggs. ox-tongue or ham. 

tomato sauce (No. 77). salt. pepper. 

Butter some small dariole or timbale moulds, cut out a star of tongue or ham 
with a fancy cutter, put one at the bottom of each mould ; wash the spinach 
thoroughly ; cook it in plenty of salted boiling water. When tender, drai i 
thoroughly, and press out the moisture. Pass the spinach through a sieve. Melt 
the butter in a stew-pan, put in the spinach, stir until hot, then add the cream, salt, 
and pepper, and the well-beaten eggs. Fill the little moulds with this mixture, place 
them on a baking-tin containing a httle water, cover with a buttered paper, and 
cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Turn out, and serve with tomato sauce round. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes, after spinach is cooked. 
Seasonable, March to December. Sufficient for 8 or 9 timbales. 



1,550. PETITS SOUFFLES AUX EPINARDS (SPINACH SOUFFLES). 

salt, 
cayenne. 



3 eggs. 

1 oz. butter. 



10 china or paper 
souffle-cases. 



2 lbs. spinach. 

\ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Pick the spinach, and wash it well in several waters ; drain, and cook in boihng 
water until tender. When sufficiently cooked, drain well, press out the moisture and 



456 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



rub through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach as soon as 
the butter is hot ; season with salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Separate the 
yolks from the whites of the eggs ; put the yolks into the spinach mixture one at a 
time ; beat each in well. Heat the Bechamel sauce, and stir into the preparation. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stifif froth ; stir in quickly and lightly. Butter 
the souffle-moulds, three-parts fill them with the souffle mixture ; place in a moderate 
oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes, after spinach is cooked. 
Seasonable, March to December. Sufficient for 10 soufiies. 



1,551. 

I lb. spinach. 
1 oz. butter. 



FRIANDINES AUX EPINARDS (SPINACH FRIANDINES). 

breadcrumbs. 



i oz. flour. I J lb. rough puff-paste 
i shallot. I (No. 976). 



fried parsley, 
legg. 



salt and pepper. 



Pick and wash the spinach thoroughly, boil till tender in boiling salted water, 
drain well, press out the moisture, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the chopped shallot ; do not allow them to colour. Add the 
spinach, sprinkle with the flour, and stir over the fire for a few minutes : season 




Fig. 107. — Friandines aux Epinards. 

with salt and pepper, and turn on to a plate to cool. Roll out the pufE-pastry 
thinly, cut it out into rounds with a cutter about 2 inches across, put a small 
dessertspoonful into the centre of one round, wet the edges, place another round 
on the top, and press together. Continue in this way until the pastry and spinach 
are used up, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in very hot fat a golden colour. 
Dish up in a pile, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
December. Sufficient for 8 or 10 friandines. 

1,552. EPINARDS A L'INDIENNE (SPINACH, INDIAN STYLE). 



2 lbs. spinach. 
I small onion. 



1 dessertspoonful curry -powder. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 



1 oz. butter. 
J oz. flour. 



buttered toast. 
1 gill rice. 



Pick, wash, and boil the spinach in plenty of boiHng water seasoned with salt ; 
drain well, press out the moisture, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter 
in a stewpan, add the curry-powder, and fry for a few minutes ; chop the onion 
very finely, mix it into the curry-powder, and add the spinach ; sprinkle in the 
flour, stir over the fire until hot, add the cream, and cook for about ten minutes 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 457 

over a slow fire. Have ready some toast, trim it into squares, remove the crust, 
and butter it. Dish the spinach on these, arranging it neatly. Boil the rice in 
plenty of boiUng water ; wash it under the tap when cooked, spread on a baking- 
tin, and dry in the oven. Serve with the spinach separately. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required after spinach is cooked, 20 minutes. Seasonable, 
March to December. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,553. CROUSTADES D'EPINARDS (SPINACH CROUSTADES). 



1 lb. spinach. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

1 oz. butter. 



bread. 



salt and pepper. frying fat. 

Pick, wash, and boil the spinach ; when cooked, drain well, press out the 
moisture, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
spinach, stir for a few minutes, then add the cream ; season with salt and pepper ; 
keep hot till required. Cut some shces of bread about 1 inch thick, stamp it out 
with a round cutter 2 inches in diameter, and with a smaller cutter scoop out the 
centre of the rounds so as to form cases. Fry these in very hot fat a golden-brown 
colour ; fill them with the spinach mixture, piling it up rather high. Dish them, and 
garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, after spinach is cooked, 20 minutes. Season- 
able, March to December. Sufficient for 6 or 8 croustades. 

1,554. EPINARDS A L'ALLEMANDE. 
2 lbs. spinach. | 2 ozs. butter. | 1 small onion. | 1 giU breadcrumbs. | fried bread croutons. 

Pick, and wash the spinach in several waters, then boil it in plenty of boihng 
water ; when tender, drain, press it to free it from moisture, and chop it finely. 
Chop the onion ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and the 
breadcrumbs, stir them over the fire for five minutes, then add the spinach, and 
mix all well together. When thoroughly hot, turn on to a hot dish, arrange neatly, 
garnish round with triangular-shaped croutons of fried bread, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes, after spinach is cooked. Season- 
able, March to December. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



FEVES (BEANS) 

1,555. FfeVES A LA CR£ME (BROAD BEANS WITH CREAM). 



2 lbs. broad beans. | 2 ozs. butter. 



\ gill Bechamel sauce I pepper. 



chopped parsley. j 1 gill cream. (No. 4). | salt. 

Shell the beans, put them into a saucepan of salted boiling water, and cook until 
done. Drain them, and peel off the sldns. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 
the beans, season to taste with salt and pepper, toss in the butter for a few minutes, 
then add the sauce, cream, and a little chopped parsley. Heat all well together, turn 
them on to a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable, May to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,556. FfiVES A L'ESPAGNOLE (BROAD BEANS WITH ESPAGNOLE 

SAUCE). 

2 lbs. broad beans. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. I slices of bacon. 

\ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). salt and pepper. | 1 oz. butter. 

Shell the beans ; cook them in salted boiling water ; if young, they will 
take ten to fifteen minutes to boil tender. When done, drain, and peel off the skin. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the beans, and toss them about in it for a 
few minutes, then add the sauce. Season to taste ; stir in the parsley, and make 



458 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

quite hot. Cut six or eight thin shoes of bacon, roll them up, and place on a skewer ; 
cook in the oven. Dish the beans on a hot dish, arrange the bacon round, and serve. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,557. BUTTER BEANS. 

\ pint butter beans. | 1 oz. butter. | chopped parsley. | salt. | pepper. 

Put the beans to soak in cold water overnight ; drain them, and boil in salted 
water for two to three hours. When tender, drain the beans. Melt 1 oz. of butter 
in a stewpan, and, when hot, put in the beans ; toss them in it for a few minutes ; 
season to taste. Dish up, and sprinkle a httle chopped parsley over them. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Time required to cook, about 3 hours. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,558. BUTTER BEANS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

J pint butter beans. 1 gill veloute sauce j chopped parsley. | salt. 

1 oz. butter. (No. 82). lemon-juice. I pepper. 

Soak the beans in cold water all night ; drain, and boil them in a saucepan of 
boiling salted water for two to three hours. As soon as the beans are cooked 
enough, drain them, and put them into a stewpan with the melted butter ; toss them 
over the fire for a few minutes, then add the sauce ; mix well. Season to taste with 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice ; add a Uttle chopped parsley ; stir well over the fire 
until thoroughly hot, turn on to a dish, sprinkle a httle parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,559. HARICOTS PANACHfiS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL (MIXED BEANS, 

MAlTRE D'HOTEL STYLE). 

\ pint French beans, j h pint flageolets. chopped parsley. 

1 oz. butter. i salt. lemon-juice. 

String the French beans, cut them in diamond shapes, cook them in salted 
boiling water until tender ; drain, and mix them with the flageolets (these can be 
obtained in tins or bottles). Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the beans, and 
toss them about in it until thoroughly hot ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon- 
juice. Add some chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, July to October. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,560. HARICOTS VERTS A L'ANGLAISE (FRENCH BEANS, BOILED). 

2 lbs. French beans. | | pint melted-butter sauce (No. 43). | chopped parsley. 

String the beans, cut them across into diamond shapes ; boil the beans in plenty 

of salted boiling water, leaving off the lid of the saucepan. When tender, drain 

well, and place them in a hot dish ; make the sauce hot, pour it over the beans, 

sprinkle a httle chopped parsley on them, and serve. 

Average cost, 3d. pound. Time required, 20 minutes to boil. Seasonable, 
July to October. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,561. HARICOTS VERTS SAUTES (FRENCH BEANS SAUTED IN BUTTER). 
1 lb. French beans. | 1 oz. butter. | chopped parsley. | salt. | pepper. 
String the beans, shred them ; boil them in plenty of salted water until tender. 
Drain well, and let them cool. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the beans ; 
season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir them carefully over the fire until quite 
hot. Turn them on to a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 
Average cost, 3d. Time required to cook, 20 minutes. Seasonable, July to 
October. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 459 

1,562. HARICOTS BLANCS (HARICOT BEANS). 
\ pint haricot beans. | H ozs. butter. | chopped parsley. | salt. | pepper. 

Soak the beans all night in cold water, then put them into a saucepan, cover 
well with cold water, add some salt, bring to the boil, put on the lid of the saucepan 
and simmer until they are done — two hours or longer. When tender, drain them. 
Melt the butter in the saucepan ; when hot, put in the beans, and toss over the fire ; 
season to taste with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little parsley, dish up, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

LAITUES (LETTUCES) 

1,563. LAITUES BRAISEES AU JUS (BRAISED LETTUCE WITH GRAVY). 

6 lettuces. I 1 carrot, i f pint stock. ' 1 bouquet garni 1 oz. butter, 

fat bacon. \ 1 onion. | 1 teaspoonful Bovril. (No. 194). seasoning. 

Choose the lettuces with firm hearts, and as much the same size as possible ; 
wash them well in salted water, cut the stalk, trim off the outside leaves, and wash 
again in fresh water ; parboil them in salted water, then drain well, press out aa 
much of the water as possible. Line a stewpan with sHces of fat bacon ; on that 
put a layer of sliced carrot and onion, the bouquet garni, salt, and pepper ; lay the 
lettuces on this, cover over with a few thin shoes of fat bacon, add the stock, put 
on the lid of the stewpan. Place the pan over the fire, and bring to the boil, then 
put it in the oven, and braise slowly for about one and a half hours. When the 
lettuces are cooked, drain, and dish them up neatly ; keep hot. Drain the liquor 
from the pan into a clean stewpan, take ofE the fat, boil until it is reduced to half- 
glaze, then add the Bovril and the butter ; the latter must be added gradually. 
Do not let it boil when the butter is added ; season to taste, and pour over the 
lettuces. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1| to 2 hours. Seasonable — EngHsh, 
April to September ; French, December to March. Sufficient for 9 persons. 

1,564. LAITUES FARCIES (STUFFED LETTUCES). 

4 lettuces. Jib. chicken or veal forcemeat (No. 201). 1 onion, 

fat bacon. bouquet garni (No. 194). J pint stock. 

1 carrot. 1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). seasoning. 

Choose even-sized, firm lettuces ; wash, trim, and parboil them. Line a stewpan 
with slices of fat bacon, carrot, and onion, the bouquet garni, and seasoning ; add 
the stock. Drain the lettuces, remove some of the centre leaves of each and stulif 
the heads with the forcemeat, tie each round with string so as to keep them in shape. 
Arrange them in the stewpan on the vegetables, cover with a well-greased paper, 
put on the lid of the pan, and cook in the oven until done. Dish up, and keep hot. 
Strain the hquor from the braise into a clean ste^^^^an, take off the fat, boil until 
reduced to half-glaze, mix in the brown sauce, make thoroughly hot, pour over the 
lettuces, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable — Enghsh, April to 
September ; French, December to March. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

1565. LAITUES BOUILLIES. 

4 lettuces. 3 gills Bechamel sauce I 2 egg-yolks. salt . 

1 oz. butter. (No. 4). i chopped parsley. pepper. 

Wash the lettuces thoroughly, trim the stalk, put them into a saucepan of 
salted water and cook until tender for about fifteen minutes ; then put into cold 
water for a minute, strain well, press out the water lightly ; turn them on to a 



460 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

chopping-board, and chop them. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped 
lettuces, stir until they have absorbed the butter, then add the sauce ; season to 
taste, make hot, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; cook a little longer 
by the side of the fire, but do not boil again. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable all the year ; full 
season, March to September. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,566. MARRONS AU JUS (CHESTNUTS WITH GRAVY). 



1 lb. chestnuts. 
1| pints stock. 



1 piece celery. 
1 onion. 



1 gill demi-glace sauce I 1 clove. 
(No. 29). I 1 oz. butter. 



salt. 
pepper. 



Slit the chestnuts on the flat side, put them in the oven for a few minutes, 
until the shell can be removed, then put them into a stewpan with boiling water, 
and boil for about five minutes ; drain, and remove the skin. When ready, put 
them into a stewpan with the stock, onion, piece of celery, one clove, which should 
be stuck in the onion, salt and pepper ; boil for thirty to forty minutes until the 
chestnuts are quite tender. When the nuts are cooked, drain, and put them into 
a stewpan in which the butter has been melted ; toss them over the fire, but do not 
let the chestnuts break. When the chestnuts have absorbed the butter, add to 
them the demi-glace sauce ; make quite hot ; season to taste. Dish up, and 
5erve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required. 1 hour. Seasonable, November to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



NAVETS (TURNIPS) 

1,567. PUR£E DE NAVETS A LA CREME (PUREE OF TURNIPS WITH 

CREAM). 



2 lbs turnips. 



salt, 
pepper. 



^ gill cream. 
1^ ozs. butter. 1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Wash and peel the turnips, cut them in slices and put in cold water with a 
pinch of salt. Drain the turnips, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water 
seasoned with salt ; bring to the boil, and cook until tender ; if young, they will 
take fifteen to twenty minutes. Strain well, press out the water, and pass them 
through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sieved 
turnip, stir in the butter until well mixed, add the Bechamel sauce ; season to taste 
with salt and pepper, add the cream, stir over the fire until very hot. Dish up 
neatly in a pile, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, obtainable all the 
year, but best in spring. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,568. NAVETS AU GRATIN. 

2 lbs. turnips. 2 ozs. grated Parmesan 

\ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



1 oz. butter. 

salt. 



cheese. 

Wash and peel the turnips, soak them in cold salted water for ten minutes. 
Drain, and cook tije turnips in boiling salted water until half-cooked. Take up, 
drain well, and cut in shoes. Butter a gratin dish ; arrange the sUces on it in a pile. 
Heat the sauce in a stewpan, add to it 1 oz. of grated cheese ; season the turnips 
with salt and pepper, pour the sauce over, and sprinkle the rest of the grated cheese 
over the top, put a few bits of butter here and there, and cook in a hot oven till 
a hght brown colour. When cooked, serve in the same dish that it was cooked in. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year, but 
best in the spring. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 461 



1,569. NAVETS A LA POULETTE. 



1 lb. young turnips. 
1 oz. butter, 
white stock. 



salt. 

pepper. 

chopped parsley. 



2 gills veloute sauce (No. 82). 
2 egg-yolks. 
^ gill cream. 

Peel the turnips, cut them into quarters, round the edges, parboil them in 
boiling salted water ; drain, and saute them in butter in a stewpan, cover them with 
white stock, season with salt, cover with the lid of the saucepan, and boil over the 
fire until the turnips are cooked. By the time the turnips are tender the stock 
should have nearly all boiled away ; then add the sauce, stir until it boils, draw o£E 
the fire, and let it cool for a minute ; beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream, 
and add to the turnips. Put on the fire to bind the eggs, but do not boil again ; 
season to taste. Dish up neatly, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable in the spring. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,570. NAVETS FARCIS (STUFFED TURNIPS). 



8 turnips. 

1 onion. 

4 ozs. cooked mutton. 



chopped parsley. 

pepper. 

salt. 



J oz. butter. 
\ oz. flour. 
\\ pints stock. 



Wash and peel the turnips, which should be round and all of one size ; cut 
a slice off the top of each, scoop out the insides ; season them with salt and pepper. 
Chop a small onion, fry it in \ oz. of butter a golden brown ; mince the mutton 
finely, add the flour to the onion ; mix together, then add i gill of stock ; stir until 
it boils, cook until thick, then add the meat ; season with salt and pepper, and 
add about one tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; stir all together until well mixed. 
Fill the turnips with this preparation, replace the tops so as to form lids, arrange 
them in a stewpan, and add the remainder of the stock, which should come up 
half their height. Cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the pan, and stew 
them very gently over a slow fire, or in the oven, until the turnips are tender. 
Dish the turnips neatly on a hot dish ; reduce the cooking stock to half -glaze, and 
pour round them. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year, but 
best in the spring. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,571. PUR£E D'OISEILLE (PUREE OF SORREL). 

1 lb. sorrel. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). i salt. 

1 oz. butter. ^ gill cream. i pepper. 

Pick the sorrel, wash it in plenty of salted water several times ; boil it in salted 
boiling water till tender, drain thoroughly, press out the moisture, then rub it 
through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the puree, toss it about 
in it, then stir in the Bechamel sauce ; make hot, season to taste, and add the 
•cream. Stir over the fire until quite hot, and use. 

This puree makes a nice garnish to serve with veal cutlets, paupiettes, etc. 

OIGNONS (ONIONS) 

1,572. OIGNONS A LA CREME (ONIONS WITH CREAM). 

6 onions. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). j J gill cream, i salt. | pepper. 

Choose some white onions of medium size, peel and boil them in salted water ; 
they will take about forty-five minutes. Drain well, and dish them. Warm up 
the sauce, add to it the cream, salt, and pepper ; boil up, and pour it over the onions. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



462 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,573. OIGNONS FARCIS (STUFFED ONIONS). 



6 medium -sized onions. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



i lb. sausage-meat. 

a few slices of fat bacon. 

I pint stock. 



salt. 

pepper. 

butter. 



Choose the onions all the same size if possible, peel them, trim the root, but 
do not cut it off or the onions will fall apart ; parboil them for fifteen minutes, 
drain, and scoop out some of the centre of each, fill them with the sausage-meat. Cut 
the onion and carrot into shces ; put some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a 
stewpan, on that place a layer of onion and carrot slices ; stand the stuffed onions 
on ^he vegetables, add the stock, cover the onions with more slices of fat bacon, 
put on the hd of the pan, and cook in a moderate oven for one hour. When the 
onions are tender, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,574. OIGNONS AU GRATIN. 

3 Spanish onions. ( 2 ozs. butter. | 1^ ozs. Parmesan cheese. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the onions, and cut them in slices ; butter a fireproof dish, lay the onion 
slices on it ; season with salt and pepper. Put 1 oz. of butter over them, broken 
up in small pieces, and bake in a hot oven till a light brown. When soft, cover the 
onions with grated cheese, pour a little melted butter over, put into the oven again 
to brown. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,575. PETITS OIGNONS AUX SPAGHETTI (SMALL ONIONS WITH 

SPAGHETTI). 



24 small onions. I Parmesan cheese. i 2 ozs. lean bacon. 

\ lb. spaghetti. | J pint Bechamel sauce, i 2 yolks of eggs. 



1 lettuce. 
^ gill cream. 



pepper. 

salt. 



Peel the onions, blanch them, then place in a stewpan with the Bechamel sauce 
and the lean bacon cut up in dice ; wash the lettuce, trim off the outside leaves, and 
shred it finely ; place this on the top of the onions. Season with salt and pepper ; 
place a greased piece of paper over, and put on the lid ; simmer for about an hour 
over a slow fire or in a moderate oven. Beat up the yolks of the eggs ; add the 
cream to them. Take the pan off the fire or out of the oven, and let the contents 
cool for a few minutes, then add the eggs and milk ; mix over the fire for a few minutes 
to cook the eggs, but do not boil again. Turn out on to a hot dish. Have the 
spaghetti ready boiled ; mix a Httle butter and cheese with it, put this round the 
dish as a border, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 to 1^ hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,576. OIGNONS D'ESPAGNE BOUILLIS (BOILED SPANISH 

ONIONS). 
6 Spanish onions. ] \ pint melted-butter sauce (No. 43). | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the onions, blanch them, wash them in cold water, then put into a saucepan 
with plenty of boiling water seasoned with salt ; bring to the boil, and simmer for 
two to three hours. When done, take them up, drain well, dish, and pour the sauce 
over. The onions can also be served with plain butter, or maitre d'hotel butter 
(No. 180). 

Average cost. Id. per lb. Time required to boil, 2 to 3 hours, according to size. 
Seasonable, October to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 463 

1,577. OIGNONS D'ESPAGNE A LA DEMI-GLACE (SPANISH ONIONS 

WITH DEMI-GLACE SAUCE). 
6 Spanish onions. | 3 gills demi-glace sauce (No. 29). | salt. | pepper. 
Peel the onions, put them into a saucepan of cold water, bring to the boil, strain, 
and wash them. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, seasoned with salt, 
and boil for two or three hours. Have ready the demi-glace sauce. When the 
onions are tender, dish them, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Id. per pound. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable, October 
to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



PANAIS (PARSNIPS) 

1,578. PANAIS A LA CREME (PARSNIPS A LA CREME). 



4 parsnips, 
salt. 



lemon-juice. 
1| ozs. butter. 



1 gill Bechamel sauce J gill cream. 

chopped parsley. 



(No. 4). 

Peel and wash the parsnips, cut them into large dice, put them into a saucepan, 
and cover with cold water ; add a Uttle salt and lemon-juice, place on the fire, and 
boil until tender. When done, strain well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 
the parsnips, toss them in it, then add the sauce, stir until quite hot, but do not let 
them break ; add the cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 
Make hot, but do not boil again. Turn out on to a hot dish, sprinkle over a little 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 



4 parsnips. 
1 oz. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



1,579. CROQUETTES DE PANAIS (CROQUETTES OF PARSNIPS). 

fried parsley (No. 195). salt. 

1 tablespoonful cream. pepper, 

lemon-juice. 2 eggs. 

Wash, peel, and boil the parsnips in water seasoned with salt and a little lemon- 
juice. When tender, drain and mash them, put them into a stewpan with the 
butter, stir over the fire until hot ; season with salt and pepper. Draw the pan 
off the fire, and add one well-beaten egg and the cream ; stir over the fire to bind, 
then turn the mixture on to a plate, and put aside to cool. Divide the mixture into 
equal parts ; make each part into a ball. Dip these into beaten egg, toss in bread- 
crumbs, place them in a frying-basket, and plunge it into very hot fat. When 
nicely browned, drain them, arrange on a hot dish, garnish the dish with fried 
parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 balls. 



3 parsnips, 
flour. 



1,580. PANAIS FRITS (FRIED PARSNIPS). 

2 ozs. butter. I salt. 

fried parsley (No. 195). | pepper. 

Peel and wash the parsnips ; boil them till tender in salted water. When done, 
drain, cut in halves lengthwise. Mix a httle salt and pepper with a tablespoonful 
of flour ; dip the parsnips into this. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, make it very 
hot, then put in the parsnips, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain on kitchen 
paper ; dish them in a pile on a hot dish on which an ornamental paper or folded 
napkin has been arranged. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

PT. VI. 30 



6 peppercorns. 
1 oz. butter. 
^ pint stock. 



salt, 
pepper. 

toast. 



464. THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

POIREAUX (LEEKS) 

1,581. POIREAUX BRAISES A L'ESPAGNOLE (BRAISED LEEKS). 

6 leeks. small piece of turnip. 

\ oaion. bouquet garni. 

\ carrot. \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

Trim off the leaves and roots of the leeks, wash them well in cold salted water , 
they require thorough cleansing in order to remove the grit they so often contain 
Put them into a saucepan, cover with water and bring to the boil ; cook for two 
or three minutes, then take up, and drain well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, slice 
the onion, carrot, and turnip, put these into the butter, place the leeks on the top, 
add the bouquet garni, peppercorns, and a Uttle salt, fry all together for about 
ten minutes, then add the stock, cover the pan with the lid, and braise over a 
slow fire or in the oven for about one and a half hours or until tender. When done, 
take up, and cut in halves, or if large into quarters, place on toast which has been 
hghtly buttered and cut in squares. Dish up, and keep hot. Strain the liquor 
from the braise, take off the fat, reduce well, and add it to the Espagnole sauce ; 
boil up, and coat over the leeks with it. Serve quickly, very hot. 

Average cost, 4d. a bundle. Time required, 1^ to 2 hours. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,582. POIREAUX AU GRATIN. 

6 leeks. ^ oz. flour. \\ ozs. grated Parmesan I salt. 

1 oz. butter. \ pint stock. cheese. I pepper. 

Trim the roots of the leeks, cut away the green part to within an inch of the 
white part, wash well in salted water ; let them soak for ten minutes. Drain ; 
have ready a saucepan of boiling water well seasoned with salt, put in the leeks, and 
boil until tender ; they will take about forty-five minutes to cook. Put the butter 
into a small stewpan, stir in the flour as soon as the butter is melted, 
then add the stock, and stir until it boils ; boil gently for five minutes, then 
add 1 oz. of cheese. Season with salt and pepper ; simmer gently for a few minutes. 
As soon as the leeks are tender, drain them thoroughly, arrange them in a fireproof 
dish, cover them with the sauce, sprinkle the remaining \ oz. of cheese over, put a 
few bits of butter here and there, and put the dish in a hot oven to brown the surface. 
When a nice colour, take it up, slip the dish on to another dish, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4d. a bundle. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufiicient for 6 persons. 

1,583. PUR£E DE POIREAUX AUX CROOTONS (PURSE OF LEEKS 

WITH CROOTONS). 

salt. 



1 bunch leeks. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). I ^ gill cream. 

fried croutons of bread. | chopped parsley. pepper. 

Trim the roots of the leeks, cut away the green part to within an inch of the 
white, wash well in salted water several times in order to remove all grit. Put them 
into a saucepan containing boiling salted water, and cook till tender. When the 
leeks are done, drain thoroughly, and rub them through a hair sieve. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, put in the puree as soon as it is hot, mix well, then add the 
Bechamel sauce, hot, and the cream. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot ; 
season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn on to a hot dish, and surround with 
triangular croutons of fried bread. Sprinkle over the puree a pinch of chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) ^^ 465 

1,584. POIREAUX BOUILLIS (BOILED LEEKS). 
1 bunch leeks. | ^ pint melted-butter sauce (No. 43). | toast. | salt. 
Choose young leeks, trim the roots and the tops, cut them within an inch of 
the white part, wash them thoroughly in salted water. Have ready a saucepan of 
salted boiling water, put in the leeks, and boil until tender ; they will take about 
forty-five minutes to cook. When done, drain well, and dish them on toast on a 
hot dish. Pour the sauce over, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. per bundle. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 

PETITS POIS (GREEN PEAS) 

1,585. PETITS POIS A L'ANGLAISE. 
1 peck peas. | 1^ ozs. butter. | 2 lumps of loaf sugar. | a few sprigs of mint. I salt. 
Shell the peas. Have ready a saucepan of boiUng water, put in the peas, add 
the sugar and some salt, the sprigs of mint if liked ; boil quickly until tender, keeping 
off the hd of the saucepan. When tender, drain them in a colander, put them 
back into the saucepan with the butter, toss over the fire. Turn them into a 
vegetable-dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. to Is. Time required, 15 minutes to boil, if young. Seasonable, 
June to September. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

1,586. PETITS POIS A LA PAYSANNE (GREEN PEAS, PEASANT STYLE). 

heart of 1 lettuce. 
6 spring onions. 

Wash the lettuce in plenty of water, tie it with string so as to keep it in shape ; 
wash and trim the onions. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the peas, the 
onions, and the lettuce, add | pint of water, and cook over the fire with the lid on. 
When the peas are tender, take out the lettuce, untie it, shred it finely, and add to 
the peas ; cut the bacon into thin strips, parboil for five minutes, add these to 
the rest of the ingredients, and then mix in a little more butter. Dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable, June to September 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



1 quart of shelled 
peas. 



salt. I 2 lumps loaf sugar. 

2 ozs. butter. I 2 ozs. bacon. 



1,587. PETITS POIS A LA BONNE FEMME. 



1 quart shelled peas. 
6 small onions (outton). 



1 oz. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



4 ozs. bacon. 

^ oz. flour. i pint stock. 

Cut the bacon into dice ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon dice 
ctnd the onions, and fry for a few minutes ; then add the flour, stir in the stock, boil, 
and cook a short time. Add to this sauce the freshly-shelled peas, place the 
saucepan on the fire, and cook, reducing the sauce to half by the time they are 
cooked. Season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
September. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,588. PETITS SOUFFLES DE PETITS POIS (LITTLE SOUFFLES OF 

GREEN PEAS). 



1 pint green peas. 2 eggs. | spinach greening. 

J gill Bechamel sauce. 



salt. 
pepper. 



1^ ozs. butter. ( ramequin -cases. 

Boil the peas in salted boiling water ; when tender, drain and rub them through 

a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the puree of peas ; season with 

salt and pepper, beat in the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, off the fire ; stir in the 

30—2 



466 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Bechamel sauce hot, mix well ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 
stir lightly into the mixture. The mixture should be a nice green ; if necessary, 
add to it some spinach greening to give the right tint. Butter lightly some paper 
or china ramequin-cases, three-parts fill them with the mixture, place in the oven 
and cook for fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
September. Sufficient for 12 cases. 

1,589. PETITS POIS AU BEURRE (GREEN PEAS WITH BUTTER). 

li pints of shelled peas. | 1 lump loaf sugar. | 2 ozs. butter. ( salt. 

Put the peas into a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, add some salt, the 
sugar and, if liked, a few sprigs of mint ; boil until tender. Strain the peas, put them 
back into the saucepan ; add the butter. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of sugar ; toss over the fire ; take away the mint. Turn into a vegetable-dish, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. to Is. a peck. Time required, 15 to 30 minutes, according to 
age and quality. Seasonable, June to September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 108. — Corbeilles aux Petits Pois. 



1,590. CORBEILLES AUX PETITS POIS (BASKETS OF PEAS). 
\ lb. short pastry. | 1 oz. butter. | ^ pint peas. | parsley. 

Roll the short pastry out thinly, Une some small fluted patty-pans with it, 
fill them with raw rice, and bake in a quick oven until a pale brown ; remove the 
rice as soon as the pastry is cooked. Roll out the rest of the pastry, cut it out 
with a round fluted pastry-cutter about 3 inches across ; cut the centre out of each 
round with a cutter one size smaller than the first one used. Divide the rings in 
halves, and bake them a light brown. Boil the peas in the usual way ; take them up, 
drain, and then toss them in 1 oz. butter. Fill the cases of pastry with the peas, put 
one of the handles in each, and place in the oven for a few minutes. Dish them 
on a hot dish on a folded napkin or dish-paper ; garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, 
i,nd serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to September. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 467 

POMMES DE TERRE (POTATOES) 

1.591. BOILED POTATOES. 

Choose potatoes of equal size, wash and peel them thinly, place in a saucepan with 
just enough cold water to cover them, add some salt, put on the lid of the saucepan, 
place it on the lire, and bring quickly to the boil ; cook until tender. Drain off the 
water, and return the saucepan containing the potatoes back on the stove for a 
few minutes to dry, leaving the lid half off. Potatoes of a good size will be done in 
fifteen or twenty minutes after they come to the boil. Dish them, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost. Id. per pound. Time required, for boihng, 15 to 20 minutes 
after they boil. Seasonable always. One pound potatoes sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.592. BAKED POTATOES. 

Large potatoes are best for baking ; choose them all of even size, so that they 
are all done together. Wash the potatoes well, taking care that they are perfectly 
free from dirt ; dry them well in a cloth, and make a sUght slit in each ; this prevents 
them bursting while baking, as they sometimes do. Place the potatoes in a moderate 
oven, and do not let them touch each other ; they should be constantly turned 
whilst baking. When cooked, serve them on a dish in a folded napkin. Potatoes 
can also be baked as an accessory to baked meat. When this is done the potatoes 
must be washed, then thinly peeled, put in the dripping-pan under the meat, and 
cooked a nice brown colour. 

Average cost, Id. per pound. Time required to bake large potatoes in their 
skins, 2 hours ; under the meat, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Allow 2 potatoes 
to each person. 

1,593. NEW POTATOES. 
2 lbs. new potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. | chopped parsley. | salt. 

Wash the potatoes in cold water, scrape them, and put them into a saucepan 
of hot water seasoned with salt ; boil until tender. Strain off the water, add the 
butter to them in the saucepan, toss over the fire until they are well buttered ; 
sprinkle with a little salt, dish them in a hot vegetable-dish, sprinkle over a httle 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2d., IJd., and Id. per pound. Time required to boil, 10 minutes. 
Seasonable, March to June. Sufficient for 4 persona. 

1,594. PUREE DE POMMES DE TERRE (MASHED POTATOES). 
1 lb. potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. | a little milk or cream. | salt. J pepper. 
Boil the potatoes ; when they are done, drain and dry them, mash them with a 
fork in the saucepan at the side of the fire, add the butter, milk, and seasoning to 
them ; beat up thoroughly until well mixed and quite hot. Turn them into a vege- 
table-dish, arrange them neatly in a pile, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 

1,595. POTATO CHIPS. 
3 potatoes. | clarified fat (No. 197). | salt. 

Wash the potatoes, and peel them thinly, cut them in thin slices crossways ; 
as they are cut, put them into a basin of cold water. When ready to fry them, 
take them out of the water, and dry thoroughly on a cloth. Have a large stevvpan 
half full of clarified fat, put it on the fire, and make it very hot. Put the potato chips 
into a frying-basket, not too many at a time ; plunge them into the boiling fat. 
When they are nearly cooked, take them out, make the fat very hot again, plunge 



468 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

in the potatoes a second time in order that they may attain a golden brown. When 
done, lift out the basket, drain, and sprinkle the potatoes with salt. Dish up, and 
serve. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required to fry, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,596. POMMES DE TERRE FRITES A LA JULIENNE (FRIED POTATOES, 

JULIENNE). 

Wash and peel some potatoes, cut them into sUces ^ inch thick, then cut the 
slices into strips resembling julienne strips ; as they are cut, put them into a basin 
of cold water. When about to fry, lift the strips into a cloth, and dry them. Havr 
ready, very hot, a stewpan of clarified fat deep enough to take a frying-basket ; 
put the potatoes into the basket, not too many at one time ; fry them until crisp 
and a nice golden colour. Shake them about while cooking, so as to get them evenly 
coloured. Lift the basket out of the fat, turn the potatoes on to paper to drain, 
sprinkle with salt. Dish up in a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required to fry, 6 to 8 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Allow 1 potato to each person. 

1,597. CROQUETTES DE POMMES DE TERRE (CROQUETTES OF 

POTATOES), NO. 1. 

1 lb. potatoes. breadcrumbs. | 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. fried parsley. 
1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. | clarified fat (No. 197). salt and pepper. 

Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, or cold potatoes left over from dinner can 
be used ; let them cool, then pass through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the potatoes, stir over the fire until hot ; season nicely with salt and 
pepper ; add the yolks of the eggs ; mix thoroughly. Lastly, stir in the chopped 
parsley, turn the mixture on to a plate, spread it out so that it may get cold quickly. 
When cold, divide the preparation into equal parts ; make these up into balls or 
cork shapes. Beat the two whites of eggs on a plate, dip each croquette into it, 
brush over with egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden brown in very 
hot fat. When a nice colour, lift them out carefully, drain on paper, dish on a 
dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 croquettes. 

1,598. CROQUETTES DE POMMES DE TERRE (POTATO BALLS), NO. 2. 



1 lb. cold potatoes. 1 saltspoonful grated 

2 ozs. butter. lemon-rind. 



breadcrumbs, i fried parsley. 
^ small onion. | 2 eggs. 



salt, 
cayenne. 



Pass the potatoes through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
chopped onion, and fry it a pale brown, then add the sieved potatoes ; mix together ; 
add the lemon-rind, salt, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, stir until quite hot, then 
bind with the yolks of the eggs. When all is well mixed, turn out on to a plate 
to cool. Divide into equal parts, make them up into balls ; beat the whites of 
the eggs on a plate, dip the balls into it, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling 
hot fat until a golden colour. Drain on paper. Dish on a dish-paper or folded 
napkin, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 10 or 12 balls. 

1,599. POMMES SOUFFLES (SOUFFLED POTATOES 

1 lb. Dutch potatoes. | clarified fat (No. 197). | salt. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them lengthwise in slices \ inch thick ; a& 
fthey are cut, put them into a basin of cold water, and let them soak for about 
t;T'7enty minutes. Drain and dry them in a cloth. Have ready a pan half full of 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



469 



clarified fat, make this moderately hot, put some sHces of potato into a frying-basket, 
plunge it into the fat, cook them until they rise to the surface of the frying fat ; 
they are then cooked. Take the potatoes and the basket out of the fat ; allow the 
fat to get very hot, plunge the basket with the potatoes into it. This final frying 
effects the puffing. Drain them, sprinkle with salt, and serve hot. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 

1,600. TIMBALE DE POMMES DE TERRE SAUTEES (TIMBALE OF SAUTED 

POTATOES). 



\ lb. potato croquette mixture 
(No. 1,597). 



1 lb. kidney potatoes. 3 tomatoes. salt. 

^ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 4 ozs. butter. popper. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, boil them, but be careful not to cook them too much. 
When they are done, drain, and let them get cold. Then cut the potatoes in thin 
slices. Melt 3 ozs. of butter in a large frying-pan, put in the slices of potato, and 
fry them a nice brown on both sides, taking care not to break them ; do not fry 




Fig. 109. — Timbalb db Pommes de Terrb Sautebs. 



too many at one time. Butter a timbale or charlotte mould, line it all over the 
bottom and sides with the sUces of sauted potatoes ; cover these potatoes with a 
thin layer of potato croquette mixture. Melt the remaining butter in a frying-pan, 
cut the tomatoes in slices, toss them lightly in it ; fill the lined mould with alternate 
layers of sauted potatoes and slices of tomato, sprinkle each layer with salt and 
pepper. The top layer must be potato-croquette mixture. Place the mould in a 
moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn out the mould when done on^ 
to a hot dish, surround it with veloute sauce, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,601. NID DE POMMES DE TERRE AUX PETITS POIS (NEST OF 

POTATOES WITH GREEN PEAS). 

3 or 4 potatoes. | i pint cooked peas. | 1 oz. butter. | salt. 

Wash and peel the potatoes very thinly, cut them in slices, and then into strips 

the shape and size of a match. Put them as they are cut into cold water ; when 

ready to fry, drain, and dry them thoroughly on a cloth. When this is done. 



470 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

pack them loosely in a wire border-mould, put the wire cover over, and fix it into 
place with the skewer provided for the purpose. Plunge into very hot fat, and 
fry the potatoes a nice brown colour. When done, drain well, take oS the wire 
cover, and turn it out carefully on to a hot dish. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a small 
stewpan, put in the peas, toss them over the fire until quite hot, then fill up the 
nest with them. Serve quickly. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 3d. or 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
August ; all the year if preserved peas are used. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,602. POMMES DE TERRE SAUTEES A LA PARISIENNE (SAUTED 

POTATOES, PARISIAN STYLE). 

6 boiled potatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | chopped parsley. | salt. | pepper. 

Cut the cold boiled potatoes into slices about J inch thick. Melt the butter 

in a large frying-pan, make it very hot, then put in the slices of potato ; season 

with salt and pepper, and fry them until a nice colour over a good fire. Dish up 

on a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,603. POMMES DE TERRE FONDANTES (MELTING POTATOES). 

8 potatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | | pint stock. | salt. | pepper. 

Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes in salted water ; when done, drain, and dry 
over the fire for a few minutes, then take each potato and press firmly in a cloth 
BO as to give it a round shape. Place them in a well-buttered baking-tin, pour the 
stock over, put a piece of butter on each potato, and place them in the oven to 
bake for about twenty minutes ; by that time the stock should have been absorbed 
by the potatoes. Dish up and serve hot. Potatoes cooked in this way melt in 
the mouth, hence the name. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 20 minutes after potatoes are boiled. 
Seasonable always. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,604. POMMES DE TERRE ANNA (ANNA POTATOES). 
12 potatoes. | 3 ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. 

Choose long-shaped potatoes, as much the same size as possible, trim them 
round, then cut into thin rounds ; put them into water when cut, then drain, 
dry thoroughly in a cloth ; season them with pepper and salt. Butter a good-sized 
timbale-mould, and arrange the potatoes in it in layers, the potato slices to overlap 
each other ; pour some butter over the first layer, then put in another layer of 
potato, the slices to be arranged the opposite way, then some more butter ; continue 
in this way until the mould is full. Put the mould in a hot oven, and bake for 
thirty to forty minutes. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a 
hot dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

1,605. POMMES DE TERRE PANEES (CRUMBED POTATOES). 
1 lb. new potatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | breadcrumbs. | pepper. | salt. 

Wash the potatoes, scrape them, and boil until tender ; they should not be 
overdone. Drain, and cut each in half ; season with salt and pepper. Melt the 
butter, pour it on to a hot plate, dip the potatoes into it, brush them over, and then 
toss them in freshly-made breadcrumbs. Place them on a baking-tin with some 
butter, and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When brown, dish up 
neatly in a pile on a hot dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonabl«. March to June. 
Sufficient for 3 iDersons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



*71 



1 lb. cooked potatoes. 
1 oz. butter. 



2 yolks of eggs. 
\ lb. ham. 



1,606. TIMBALES DE POMMES DE TERRE A LA MODERNE (TIMBALES 

OF POTATO, MODERN STYLE). 

Bechamel sauce (No. 4). I salt. 
browTX sauce (No. 6). | pepper. 

Rub the cooked potatoes through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
add the potato and the yolks of eggs ; season to taste with pepper and salt, and 
stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed and hot. Well butter some small dariole- 
moulds, Une them thickly vAth. the potato mixture, leaving a hollow in the centre 
of each. Cut the ham into small dice, mix with it a httle Bechamel sauce, just 
enough to bind it. Fill the hollows in the moulds with this mixture, cover over 
the top with a layer of the potato puree. Place them in the oven to brown. Turn 
them out on a hot dish, and pour brown sauce round. Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 110. — TiMBALES db Pommes de Terre a la Moderns. 



1,607. POMMES DE TERRE A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL (POTATOES A LA 

MAITRE D'HOTEL). 



1 lb. potatoes. 

2 OZ8. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
lemon -juice. 

Choose medium-sized potatoes for this dish, peel and wash them, boil in salted 
water, and cook until done, then while they are still hot put them into a stewpan 
with the butter, salt, pepper, parsley, and lemon-juice. Toss them over the firo 
until the butter is quite melted. Dish them in a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,608. POMMES DE TERRE FARCIES AUX TOMATES (STUFFED POTATOES 

WITH TOMATOES). 

parsley. 

salt and pepper. 

Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Wash and peel the potatoes, cut o£E the ends, scoop out the centre of each Avith 
a sharp knife, fry them a golden brown colour in very hot fat. Melt the butter in 
a small stewpan ; chop the shallot, fry it in the butter without browning, then add 



6 small potatoes. 
3 tomatoes, 
toasted bread. 



2 ozs. chopped ham. 
1 shallot. 
1 oz. butter. 



472 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

the cooked chopped ham ; dilute wdth Bechamel sauce, add a little chopped parsley, 
salt, and pepper , cook over the fire until quite hot, then fill the potatoes ; the 
mixture should not be too moist. Cut the tomatoes in halves, squeeze out a little 
of the pulp, and stand a stuffed potato in the centre of each half-tomato ; melt a 
little butter, and brush over the potatoes with it. Place them on a buttered baking- 
tin, and put into a hot oven for eight or ten minutes. Have ready some toasted 
bread, cut it out in rounds the same size as the tomatoes, dish up on these, and serve 
hot. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 

1,609. POMMES DE TERRE MARQUISE. 



2 lbs potatoes. 1 gill tomato sauce 1 J ozs. butter. 

2 yolks of eggs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



(No. 77). I 1 whole egg. 

Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, dry them by the side of the fire, then rub 
them through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the potatoes, 
mix, and then add the tomato sauce, which should be very thick and of a nice red 
jolour ; add the yolks of two eggs, salt and pepper. Mix all well together. Put 
) the mixture into a forcing-bag with a large ornamental pipe attached ; force out 
on to a buttered baking -tin oval shapes as much like half -eggs as possible. Brush 
them over with beaten egg, put them in a quick oven for six or seven minutes in order 
to brown them. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 to 50 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



1,610. POMMES DE TERRE MIREILLE. 

2 lbs. medium -sized potatoes. 8 ozs. preserved artichoke 

3 ozs. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



bottoms. 

Peel and wash the potatoes, cut them into rounds, and as they are cut put them 
into cold water ; then drain, and dry them very thoroughly. Melt the butter in 
a saute-pan, and, when hot, put in the potatoes, and saute them. SHce the 
artichokes, and add them to the potatoes. Saute the vegetables together until 
they are well mixed. Turn into a vegetable-dish, arrange neatly, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

1,611. POMMES DE TERRE EN COPEAUX (RIBBON POTATOES). 

4 potatoes. | salt. | clarified fat (No. 197). 

Wash and peel the potatoes, and cut them into shces \ inch thick ; trim them, and 
then cut each slice round and round into ribbons as thinly as possible. Put into 
water, strain, and dry, and fry them in very hot clarified fat a golden colour. Drain, 
sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

1,612. POMMES DE TERRE MIRETTE. 
6 potatoes. 1 oz, meat-glaze. salt and pepper. 



\if ozs. butter. 



2 truffles. 



1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into juUenne strips ^ inch wide ; put 
them into cold water, after cutting, to prevent blackening. Drain, and dry well 
in a cloth. Melt 1 oz. of the butter in a saute-pan. As soon as it is hot, put in 
the strips of potato, and cook them until they are tender, keeping them soft ; they 
must not break during the cooking. Cut the truffles into the same shape as the 
potatoes, add them to the potatoes ; season with salt and pepper, mix in the meat- 
glaze, which should first be melted. Mix all well together, dish up, sprinkle with 
grated cheese, and the remaining ^ oz. of butter. Place in a hot oven to glaze. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 




to 
(U 

*-• 
nj 

s 

o 

H 

u 

3 

(A 
0) 

o 
(0 

Pu 

1m 

ii 
(U 

H 

0) 

•O 

(0 

<u 

s 
s 

o 

Oh 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



47? 



1,613. POMMES DE TERRE FARCIES A L'IMPERIALE (POTATOES, 

IMPERIAL STYLE). 

8 potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful cream. | 2 eggs. | salt. | pepper. 

Choose some oblong, good-sized potatoes as much the same size and shape as 
possible ; wash them well, dry, and slit them slightly on one side. Place them on 
a baking-sheet, put in the oven, and bake until done. Then take them up, cut ofiE 
a slice of each potato lengthways, scoop out the pulp, and pass it through a wire 
sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sieved potato, add the cream, stir 
in the yolks of the eggs ; season with pepper and salt. Whip the whites of two 
eggs very stiffly, stir them lightly into the mixture. Fill the potatoes with this 
preparation, put the piece cut off each potato on the top to form a lid. Place 
them on a baking-tin, and put them into a moderate oven. Serve on a napkin or 
dish-paper when done. Send to table at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 i hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 




Fig. 111. — PoMMES de Terre Farcies 1 L'Imperiale. 



1,614. POMMES DE TERRE NOISETTES. 

4 potatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, then, with a vegetable-cutter, cut out round shapes , 
the size of small marbles. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the 
potato shapes, cook them a nice golden colour. When done, take them up, drain 
on paper, sprinkle with salt, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2d. or 3d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,615. POMMES DE TERRE CHAtEAU. 

8 medium-sized potatoes. | 1 J ozs. butter. | salt. | chopped parsley. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in quarters, then into the shape of large 
olives ; sprinkle some salt and pepper over them. Melt the clarified butter in a 
saute-pan ; put in the potatoes as soon as the butter is hot, and fry them slowly 
until they are done, and a golden colour. Drain, dish up, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



474 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,616. POMMES DE TERRE A LA DUCHESSE (DUCHESS POTATOES). 

2 lbs. potatoes. | 1^ ozs. butter. | 1 whole egg. | 2 egg-yolks. | salt. | pepper. 

Wash the potatoes, peel them thinly, and boil in salted water until done ; then 
drain, let them dry on the side of the fire for a few minutes, pass through a wire 
sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the potatoes, mix well, then stir in 
two egg-yolks ; season with salt and pepper. When thoroughly mixed, turn it out 
on to a board that has been sprinkled with flour, divide it into equal parts ; this 
quantity will make about twelve. Shape each part into a square, oval, or round, 
place them on a buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with beaten egg, mark them 
with the back of a knife in cross lines. Place in a quick oven for seven or eight 
minutes to colour. Dish up, and serve. These potatoes can also be made up in 
the shape of small cottage loaves. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 50 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,617. POMMES DE TERRE AU GRATIN (POTATOES, GRATIN STYLE). 



1 lb. potatoes. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls cream 



1 oz. butter. 



breadcrumbs. 



salt. 
pepper. 



1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese 
Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, or cold ones left over will do for this dish ; 
drain, and rub them through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
potato, add the yolks, cream, and seasoning ; mix all well together. Turn this 
puree on to a buttered fireproof dish, smooth it neatly, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and a few brown breadcrumbs, put a few bits of butter here and there, 
and place in a hot oven to brown. When ready, take the dish out of the oven, 
place it on a napkin on another dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes, if cold potatoes are used. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,618. CROUSTADE DE POMMES DE TERRE. 
\ lb. short paste. salt and pepper. \ gill cream.T 



1 lb. potatoes. 



2 yolks of eggs. 



2 ozs. butter. 

Roll out the pastry, fine a flan ring with it, ornament the edge, place it on a 
baking-tin, and fill with raw rice ; bake in a moderate oven. When done, take 
it out of the oven, let it cool, then turn out the rice (this can be kept, and used again) ; 
this must be done carefully so as not to break the case. Have the potatoes ready 
boiled, rub them through a fine sieve. Melt 1| ounces of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the potatoes, mix well, add the eggs and cream, stir well together ; season 
with salt and pepper. Arrange this puree in the croustade (keep back a little for 
decoration) in the shape of a pyramid. Put the remaining puree into a forcing- 
bag with a rose pipe, and decorate tastefully with it ; melt the remaining | oz. 
of butter, pour it over the potato, put into a hot oven to glaze. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 50 minutes to 1 hour. Seasonable always. 
Sufiicient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,619. QUENELLES DE POMMES DE TERRE (POTATO QUENELLES). 

1 lb. potatoes. | 2\ ozs, butter. | 1 whole egg. | 2^ ozs. flour. | grated cheese. | 1 yolk. | seasoning. 
Wash and peel the potatoes, boil them until tender, drain, and dry. Melt 2 ozs. 
of butter in a stewpan, rub the potatoes through a fine sieve, stir them into the butter, 
add the whole egg and the yolk, and mix well ; season with salt and pepper, stir 
in the flour, beat well over the fire, then turn on to a plate. Divide the preparation 
into equal parts ; mould these into quenelles with two dessertspoons. As they are 
made, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, pour round them boiling water 
until half-covered, add some salt, cover with a buttered paper and a lid. Poach 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 475 

the quenelles gently for ten minutes. Drain them, place them on a buttered dish 
sprinkled with grated cheese, sprinkle some more cheese over them, pour over some 
melted butter, and place in a hot oven to brown. When done, place the dish on 
another one, and send to table at once, very hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 50 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,620. SOUFFLE DE POMMES DE TERRE (SOUFFLE OF POTATOES). 

1 lb. potatoes. | i gill cream. | 2 eggs. ] salt. | pepper. | 1 oz. butter. 

Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes ; drain and dry, then rub them through a 
wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the potatoes ; when hot, stir in 
the cream, the yolks of the eggs, and seasoning. Take it off the fire, and beat well. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the mixture. 
Turn this preparation into a well-buttered souffle-mould or in little china ramequin- 
lases ; whichever is used, do not fill them more than two-thirds full. Place them 
on a baking-tin, and cook in the oven ; the large one about twenty to thirty minutes, 
or the small ones ten minutes. As soon as they are cooked, they should be sent to 
table at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,621. POMMES DE TERRE A LA LYONNAISE (POTATOES, LYONNAISE 

STYLE). 

6 cooked potatoes. I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 2 shallots. I salt. 
2 ozs. butter. j juice of i lemon. | oz. glaze. | pepper. 

Cut the potatoes in rounds about \ inch thick. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, 
put in the sliced potatoes and fry them a Hght brown colour, then add the chopped 
parsley and shallot ; season to taste with salt and pepper and the lemon-juice. 
Lastly, add the melted glaze. Blend all well together over the fire, dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,622. POMMES DE TERRE A L'lTALIENNE (POTATOES, ITALIAN STYLE). 

6 large kidney potatoes, j 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. salt, 
boiled rice. i 2 ozs. butter. I pepper. 

Scrub the potatoes with a brush, wipe them, and bake until soft, then cut a 
piece off each to form a lid ; scoop out the pulp, rub it through a sieve, weigh it, 
and take a third of its weight in well-boiled rice. Mix them together in a stewpan 
with the melted butter ; season to taste with salt and pepper, add the grated 
Parmesan cheese ; mix all together thoroughly, fill the potato-shells with the 
preparation, put a hd on each, put them in a fairly hot oven for ten minutes. 
Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Gd. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



1,623. POMMES DE TERRE FARCIES AUX FINES HERBES (POTATOES 

STUFFED WITH FINE HERBS). 

\ teaspoonful parsley. i 2 ozs. butter. 

1 yolk of egg. j salt. 

1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce. | pepper. 

Choose round, medium-sized potatoes, scrape them, then cut a piece off the 
top of each ; scoop out the centre carefully, and cut a piece off the opposite side 
to the opening, so that they will stand. Chop the shallot ; peel and chop the 
mushrooms ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot, and fry a little. Mix 



5 new potatoes. 

6 mushrooms. 
1 shallot. 



476 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



in the mushrooms, cook until done, then add the parsley, Bechamel sauce, yolk 
of the egg, pepper, and salt. Mix all together over the fire. Fill the potatoes 
with this, arrange them in a buttered baking-tin, and bake them in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, March till June. 



1,624. POMMES DE TERRE FARCIES (STUFFED POTATOES). 



8 small potatoes. 

1 oz. butter. 

2 ozs. ham. 



1 tablespoonful Parmesan 

cheese. 
1 tablespoonful Bechamel. 



3 shallots. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 tablespoonful breadcrumbs. 

2 yolks of eggs. 
8 artichoke bottoms. 

Choose the potatoes as much as possible the same size, wash and peel them, 
cut off the ends of each, so that they will stand upright ; at the other end of the 
potato insert a cutter, or use a small knife, and scoop out the centre of each ; fry 
them in hot fat a golden colour. Put the butter in a small stewpan ; chop the shallots, 
and fry them without browning, then stir in the finely-chopped cooked ham, the 
cheese, egg-yolks, breadcrumbs, and sauce ; mix all together thoroughly ; season 




Fig. 112. — Pommes de Terrb Farcies. 

to taste with salt and pepper, fill the potatoes with this preparation, place them 
on a baking-sheet, and put in a hot oven for a few minutes. Warm the artichoke 
bottoms either in hot water or by tossing them in a little butter over the fire. 
Dish the artichokes on a hot dish, dress one of the stuffed potatoes on each, and 
serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



8 large potatoes. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1,625. POMMES DE TERRE A LA CRAPAUDINE (BAKED POTATOES, 

FRENCH STYLE). 

3 ozs. Gruyere cheese. I salt. 

brown breadcrumbs. ' pepper. 

Wash the potatoes, peel them, cut in thin shces crossways, then the sUces in 
halves. Butter a timbale-mould with melted butter, and sprinkle it with brown 
breadcrumbs all over. Cut the cheese in thin sHces, put a layer of potatoes at the 
bottom of the mould ; season with salt and pepper ; over that arrange a layer of 
cheese shces ; season again, and pour over each layer a little melted butter. Continue 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 477 

in this way in alternate layers until the mould is full. Place the mould on a baking- 
tin, and put in a moderate oven to bake for about thirty minutes. When done, 
unmould on to a hot dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,626. POMMES DE TERRE AU LARD (POTATOES WITH BACON). 

\ oz. flour. bouquet garni (No. 

I pint stock. 194). 

I gill sherry. chopped parsley. 

Cut the bacon in dice ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, and fry 
it till nearly done ; add the onions, and let them cook at the same time. Drain the 
onions and bacon ; put the butter back into the pan, stir in the flour, let it brown 
for a minute or two, then moisten with the stock and wine ; season with salt and 
pepper, and add the bacon and onions. Peel the potatoes, cut them in quarters, 
trim and round the edges, and add them and the bouquet garni to the rest of the 
ingredients in the stewpan. Cover with the lid of the pan, and cook slowly until 
the potatoes are done. When ready to serve, remove the bouquet, skim the sauce, 
turn on to a dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 35 to 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



J lb. bacon. 

6 button onions. 

1 oz. butter. 



salt. 

pepper. 

1 lb. potatoes. 



1,627. POMMES DE TERRE DORIA. 



\ lb. potatoes. | 2 ozs. flour. 



salt. 
pepper. 



1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 
i oz. butter. \ 1 gill water. 1 egg. 

Peel, and boil the potatoes in salted water ; drain, and dry, then rub them through 
a wire sieve. Put the butter into a small stewpan, add the water to it, bring to 
the boil, then stir in the flour very quickly, and continue to stir until the mixture 
leaves the bottom and sides of the saucepan clean ; then add the potatoes and the 
grated cheese, stir over the fire for a few minutes. Take ofi the fire, and beat in 
the egg ; season with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let cool. 
Divide the mixture into equal portions ; make these up into small balls. Drop 
them into hot fat, and fry a nice golden-brown colour. Strain, and serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 5 persons. 

1,628. POMMES DE TERRE A LA DAUPHINE. 



1 lb. potatoes. 
3 gills milk. 



1 egg. 3 ozs. grated Gruyere salt. 

2 ozs. butter. cheese. j pepper. 



Peel the potatoes, wash, and slice them finely, put them into a basin ; season 
with salt and pepper. Grate the cheese, beat the egg, and boil the milk ; add 
these ingredients to the potatoes in the basin, keeping back 1 oz. of the cheese. 
Mix all well together. Pour this mixture into a well-buttered fireproof dish, 
sprinkle all over with the other 1 oz. of grated cheese, put a few pieces of butter 
here and there, and cook in a moderate oven for thirty to forty minutes. When 
done, place the dish on another, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,629. POMMES DE TERRE ALLUMETTES. 

3 or 4 potatoes. | clarified fat (No. 197). I salt. 

Peel the potatoes, wash and slice them finely, then cut the shces in very thin 

strips the size and thickness of matches ; wash them after they are cut, and dry 

thoroughly in a cloth. Have ready a pan of very hot clarified fat ; put the potatoes 



478 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

into a fr3dng-basket, plunge it into the fat, and fry the potatoes until they are 
brown and crisp. When done, drain, sprinkle with salt, dish up on a folded napkin 
or dish-paper, and serve. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,630. POMMES DE TERRE A LA BOURGEOISE. 



6 potatoes. 
2 onions. 



2 ozs. butter. 



\ pint browTi sauce (No. 6). | salt, 
chopped parsley. 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). j pepper. 

Wash, and peel the potatoes thinly, cut them into thick slices ; peel and slice 
the onions. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; as soon as it is hot, put in the onions 
and fry them a little, then add the potatoes. Saute them over the fire together 
for five minutes. Drain away the butter, and add the brown and tomato sauces, 
previously mixed together ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cook gently 
until the vegetables are tender. When done, dish them up on a hot dish, skim the 
sauce, and pour it over the potatoes. Sprinkle on the top a little chopped parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,631. POMMES DE TERRE A L'ESPAGNOLE (POTATOES, SPANISH STYLE). 

4 potatoes. | 1 gill salad-oil. | 6 olives. | salt. | pepper. 

Wash, and peel the potatoes, slice them very thinly ; as they are cut, put them 
into cold water, and let them soak for ten minutes ; drain, and dry in a cloth. 
Put the oil into a frying-pan, let it get very hot, then put in the sliced potatoes, 
and fry them quickly till they are brown and very crisp ; then take them up, drain, 
and place on a hot dish. Stone the olives, chop them finely, sprinkle them all over 
the potatoes, and serve quickly. Directly the potatoes are taken out of the oil, 
they should be Hghtly seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,632. POMMES DE TERRE HACKEES AU GRATIN. 



6 cold potatoes. 
1^ ozs. butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 2 tablespoonfuls thin Bechamel 

sauce (No. 4). 



salt, 
pepper. 



breadcrumbs. 

Cut the potatoes into dice, melt | oz. of butter in a saucepan ; when hot, add 
the potatoes, stir in the Bechamel sauce, which should be first heated and not very 
thick, one tablespoonful of cheese, salt, and pepper ; mix together, taking care not 
to break up the potatoes. Rub some butter on a fireproof or gratin dish, turn the 
potato mixture on to it, sprinkle with the rest of the cheese and a few breadcrumbs, 
break up the remainder of the butter into little bits, and place them here and 
there on the top ; bake in a brisk oven until a nice golden colour, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,633. POTATO SNOW. 
3 or 4 cold boiled potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful milk. | salt. | pepper. 

Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
milk, and make hot. Add the potatoes, season with salt and pepper, stir over a 
slow fire until the mixture is almost dry. Turn it out on to a dish, pile it up as high 
as possible, and serve. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 479 



1,634. POMMES DE TERRE A LA PRINCESSE (POTATOES, PRINCESS STYTE). 

1 lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. I 1 egg. i salt. 
1 oz. butter. 2 raw yolks of egg. I parsley. I pepper. 

Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and as soon 
as it is hot, stir in the potato. Grate the cheese, add it to the mixture, season with 
j salt and pepper, and mix in the two raw yolks. Turn the mixture on to a plate, 
and let it get cold. Divide the preparation into equal portions ; make each portion 
into the shape of a httle roll, between 2 and 3 inches long and | inch in thickness. 
Butter a baking-sheet, put the rolls on it, brush them over with the egg beaten up, 
put in the oven, and bake a golden colour. When cooked, dish them up, and 
garnish \nth sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost, 4d. or 5d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 rolls. 



1 lb. cooked potato. 
4 ozs. cooked meat, 
i small onion. 



1,635. PATES DE POMMES DE TERRE (POTATO PATTIES). 

1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. salt. 
a little Bechamel sauce (No. 4). pepper. 

2 ozs. butter. J gill milk. 

Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in 
the potato, add the milk, salt, and pepper, and mix well together. Chop the meat 
finely, chop and fry the onion in a little butter, mix it with the meat in a ste%vpan. 
Add the parsley, seasoning and enough sauce to bind the mixture. Grease six or 
eight good-sized patty-pans, Une them with the potato mixture, put some of the 
prepared meat in the centre, and cover vdih a layer of the potato. Put a Uttle bit 
of butter on each, place on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven until brown. Take 
up, turn them out of the pans, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 persons. 

1.636. POMMES DE TERRE A LA GASTRONOME. 

12 potatoes. | ^pint Perigueux sauce (No. 62). | salt. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, then with a column-cutter cut out as many pieces 
as possible about 1| inches long. Put them into a saucepan of cold water, season 
with a httle salt, and cook them for about ten minutes or until tender. Care must 
be taken not to break them. When done, drain, and place on a hot dish. Pour 
the sauce over, and serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 to 30 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.637. POMMES DE TERRE A LA BARIGOULE. 

8 potatoes. | 1 gill salad oil. | lemon-juice. | stock. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel and wash the potatoes, put them into a stewpan, cover them with stock, 
and cook until done. When tender, drain the potatoes carefully. Care must be 
taken not to break them. Pour the oil into a frying-pan, make it very hot over 
the fire, put in the potatoes, and fry them a golden colour all over. Place them 
on a hot dish, sprinkle salt, pepper, and lemon-juice all over them, and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. or 8d. Time required, 15 minutes after the potatoes are boiled. 
Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,638. POMMES DE TERRE A LA MINUTE. 

3 or 4 potatoes. | 1 oz. butter. | pepper. | salt. 

Peel the potatoes ; cut them in shces about | inch thick. Have ready some 

boihng water, seasoned with a Uttle salt. Put the potatoes into this. They should 

be cooked m a few minutes. Drain them, put the potatoes on a hot dish, chop 

PT. vn. 31 



480 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

them into dice, sprinkle over some salt and pepper. Put a few pieces of butter 
on them, place in the oven for a minute until the butter is melted, and send to 

table at once. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 

for 3 persons. 

1,639. FRIED POTATO CAKE. 

\ lb. cold potatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. 

Mash the potatoes with a fork. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, put in 
the potatoes, season them with salt and pepper, and stir them about until hot ; 
then pat them down tightly into the pan in a fiat cake, place over a slow fire, and fry 
until the under-surface is brown. Turn out the cake on to a hot plate, keeping the 
browned side uppermost. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,640. POMMES DE TERRE A L'INDIENNE (POTATOES, INDIAN STYLE). 

2 lbs. potatoes. 3 gills curry sauce (No. 23). salt. 

2 ozs. butter. chopped parsley. pepper. 

Peel and wash the potatoes, put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, 
add a little salt, and bring to the boil ; then simmer until the potatoes are tender. 
They should not be done too much. Drain and dry by the side of the fire, then 
cut them in thick shces. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the potatoes, and 
fry them Hghtly without browning. Have ready the curry sauce. Arrange the 
slices of potatoes on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour the sauce over, 
and serve hot. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley just before sending to table. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1 641. POMMES DE TERRE A LA HONGROISE (POTATOES, HUNGARIAN 

STYLE). 

2 lbs. potatoes. 2 onions. I chopped parsley. 

2 tomatoes. 2 ozs. butter. | J teaspoonful paprika pepper. 

Chop the onion, peel and wash the potatoes, and cut them into thick slices. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, and fry it without browning. SUce 
the tomatoes, after first peeling them, press out some of the seeds, and add the 
tomatoes to the onions and the sliced potatoes. Stir in the paprika pepper, salt, 
and pepper, mix all together, then just cover with stock. Cook gently until the 
potatoes are tender and the stock has been almost entirely reduced. Dish up on 
a hot dish, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley just before serving. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,642. POMMES DE TERRE A LA TURQUE (POTATOES, TURK STYLE). 

1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 
clarified fat (No. 197). 

Sieve the potato. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and as soon as it is hot put in 
the potato. Mix well, and then add the yolk of egg, anchovy essence, and seasoning. 
Stir all well together until well mixed, turn on to a plate, and let it get cold ; then 
divide it into equal portions, shape each portion into a ball or cork shape, beat the 
whole egg and the white of the other on a plate, dip in the croquettes, roll in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in clarified fat a golden brown. Drain on paper, arrange on a dish- 
paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times» 
Sufficient for 8 croquettes. 



salt and pepper, 
stock. 



\ lb. cooked potato. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 yolk of egg. 



salt and pepper, 
breadcrumbs. 
1 whole egg. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 481 

1.643. POMMES DE TERRE PIQUANTES (POTATOES WITH PIQUANT SAUCE). 

8 potatoes, i 4 ozs. fat bacon. | pint stock. j salt and pepper. 

1 onion. | 1 oz. flour. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. | chopped parsley. 

Peel the potatoes, wash and parboil them for about ten minutes ; then drain 
and cut them into slices. Peel the onion, chop it finely ; cut the bacon into small 
dice. Put the onion and bacon into a ste"\vpan, and fry together until a hght 
brown colour ; then mix in the flour, add the stock, and stir until it boils. Pour 
in the vinegar, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Put into this sauce the 
shces of potato ; cook gently until tender. The potatoes must not be overdone, or 
they will break, and spoil the appearance of the dish. When they are done, arrange 
the slices of potato on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1.644. POMMES DE TERRE AUX BETTERAVES (POTATOES WITH BEETROOT). 



8 potatoes. 6 button onions. ^ lemon 



2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 
pepper. 



J small beetroot. ^ pint good stock. 

Peel and wash the potatoes, put them into a saucepan, cover with, cold water, 
add a Uttle salt, and cook until half done. They should not be quite cooked for 
this dish. Let the potatoes cool, then cut them in thick shces. Melt the butter 
in a saute-pan. When hot, put in the potatoes, and fry lightly. SUce the beet- 
root, and add it and the onions to the potatoes. Stir in the stock, the lemon-juice, 
and seasoning. Simmer gently for about ten to fifteen minutes. Arrange on a 
dish, the potatoes and onions in the centre, and garnished round with the slices of 
beetroot. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,645. TIMBALE DE POMMES DE TERRE (SHAPE OF POTATOES). 

1 lb. cold cooked potatoes. 1 onion. 1^ ozs. flour. I salt. 

1 tablespoonful milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. I pepper. 

Mash or sieve the potatoes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop the onions 
finely, fry them in the butter without browning ; add the potato. IVIix well, then 
stir in the flour. Season to taste. Beat up the yolk of egg, add the milk, and 
stir into the potatoes. Beat until smooth, turn the mixture into a well-buttered 
timbale-mould, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes until the 
potatoes are a nice brown colour. Serve hot. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 

SALSIFIS (SALSIFY) 

1,646. SALSIFIS BOUILLIS (BOILED SALSIFIES). 

1 bundle salsify. 1 dessertspoonfuJ chopped salt. 

lemon-juice. parsley. 1^ ozs. butter. 

Wash the salsify, scrape the roots, out into pieces, and as they are cut drop 
them into a basin of cold water containing salt and the juice of half a lemon. This 
is to prevent them changing colour. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, also 
seasoned with salt and lemon-juice ; put in the salsify, and simmer till tender. 
They will take about one hour to cook. When done, strain them, mix in a saucepan 
■with the butter, parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, variable. Time required, 1 hour to boil. Seasonable, December 
to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

31—2 



482 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,647. SALSIFIS A LA POULETTE. 

12 heads of salsify. i 1 dessertspoonful chopped lemon-juice. 

1 pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | parsley. salt. 

Wash the salsify, scrape the roots, cut them into lengths about 3 inches, and 
throw them as they are cut into cold water seasoned with salt and lemon-juice. 
Let them soak for half an hour or longer. When ready to cook, place them in a 
Baucepan of boihng water seasoned in the same way with salt and lemon-juice. 
Boil for about one hour. Drain, and dish up. Have ready heated the Bechamel 
sauce, add the parsley to it, season nicely with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, pour 
it over the salsify, and serve. 

Average cost, variable. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, December to 
March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



3 heads of salsify. 
lemon -juice, 
salt. 



1,648. BEIGNETS DE SALSIFIS (SALSIFY FRITTERS). 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. j fried parsley. 

1 tablospoonful salad oil. 2 ozs. flour, 

clarified fat (No. 197). I 2 eggs. 

Wash, scrape, and soak the salsify in cold water seasoned with salt and lemon- 
juice. Boil in salted, acidulated water until tender. Take it up when done, drain, 
and cut the salsify into pieces all the same size. Sieve the flour into a basin, work 
in the yolks of the eggs, the milk, and oil. Beat to a smooth batter, season with 
salt and pepper. When ready to fry, beat up the whites of the eggs very stiffly 
and stir them lightly into the batter. Heat the clarified fat in a stewpan, make it 
very hot, dip the pieces of salsify into the batter, one at a time, drop them into the 
boiling fat, and fry a golden brown colour. Take up, drain, dish up in a pile on a 
dish-paper or napkin arranged on a hot dish, and serve. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, December to 
March. 

1,649. SALSIFIS A LA VELOUTE (SALSIFY WITH VELVET SAUCE). 

1 bundle salsify. | lemon-juice. | salt. | 1 oz. butter. | veloute sauce (No. 82). 

Scrape the roots of salsify, have ready some cold water in a basin, season with 
a little salt and the juice of half a lemon. As the roots are scraped, put them into 
this to prevent them turning black. Boil them in boihng water, seasoned with 
salt and lemon-juice. Cook until tender, then drain and cut them in pieces. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the salsify, and toss it in the butter for a few minutes ; 
then add sufficient veloute sauce to cover. Let it cook gently for a few minutes 
longer. Dish up the salsify in a hot vegetable-dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost of salsify, about 4d. a bundle. Time required, \\^ hours. Season- 
able, December to March. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,650. SALSIFIS AU FROMAGE (SALSIFY WITH CHEESE). 



1 bundle salsify. 1 salt. 

2 ozs. butter. ! lemon-juice. 



IJ ozs. Parmesan 1^ ozs. Gruyere cheese. 

hot buttered toast. 



cheese. 

Scrape the roots, wash in acidulated water, boil them till tender in boihng water 
reasoned with salt and lemon-juice, drain well. Melt the butter in a stewpan. 
When hot, put in the salsify cut in even-sized pieces, grate the cheese, and add it. 
Toss over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Have ready some slices of hot buttered 
toast. Put these on a hot dish, pour the salsify and cheese over, and serve very 
hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, December to March. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 



483 



TOMATES (TOMATOES) 

1,651. TOMATES FARCIES A LA PROVENCALE (STUFFED TOMATOES, 

PROVENCALE STYLE). 

1 gill demi -glace sauce (No. 29). 



6 tomatoes. 
1 small onion, 
i gill oil. 



salt and pepper. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
4 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 
1 tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese. 

Chop the onion finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Put in the onion, and 
fry a little. Add two tomatoes cut up in dice, the chopped parsley, pepper, and 
salt. Put the lid on the pan, place it on a slow fire, and cook for ten minutes ; 
then add the breadcrumbs, mix all together, add if necessary a little stock. The 
mixture should be of a firm consistency. Cut four tomatoes in halves, squeeze out 
the seeds carefully, oil a baking-tin, place the tomatoes on it, stuff them with the 
mixture, sprinkle over each some grated cheese and breadcrumbs, pour a few drop8 
of oHve oil over, and place in a hot oven for ten to twelve minutes. Dish the 
tomatoes on a hot dish, heat up the demi-glace sauce, pour it round them, and 
serve. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,652. TOMATES AU GRATIN A L'INDIENNE (TOMATOES BAKED, INDIAN 

STYLE). 



8 tomatoes. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 teaspoonful curry-powder. 
3 ozs. rice. 



breadcrumbs. 
1 small onion. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Put the tomatoes in boihng water for a few minutes, peel them carefully, cut 
them in thick slices, and remove the seeds. Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop 
the onion, and fry it in the butter a golden brown. Add the curry-powder, fry for 
a minute, then put in the tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, cover with the 
lid, and stew gently over a slow fire for about ten to fifteen minutes. Boil the 
rice in salted water. When tender, drain and wash, spread on a baking-tin, and 
put in a cool oven to dry. Butter a fireproof or gratin-dish, put on this a layer of 
tomatoes, season them vnth salt and pepper, over that a layer of rice. Continue 
until the rice and tomatoes are all used up. The last layer should be tomatoes. 
Sprinkle some breadcrumbs over, put a few bits of butter here and there, and bake 
in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Put the dish on another, and send to table 
very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all timea 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,653. PETITS SOUFFLES A LA TOMATE (LITTLE TOMATO SOUFFLfiS). 



1 gill well-reduced tomato I 1 oz. butter, 
puree (No. 77). I 1 oz. flour. 



1 gill milk, 
J gill cream. 



3 eggs. 
salt. 



paprika pepper. 
souffl6 cases. 



Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a httle ; then add the milk, 
boil until very tliick, stirring quickly. The sauce should leave the sides of the pan 
when cooked enough. Take the pan off the fire, and beat in, one at a time, the three 
yolks of eggs. Add the cream and the well-reduced tomato puree, beat all well 
together, season nicely with salt and a pinch of paprika pepper. Whisk the three 
whites of eggs very stiffly, stir lightly into the mixture. Butter some small souffle 
cases, china or paper, fill them three-quarters full, place them on a baking-sheet, 
and put in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Dish up on a dish-paper, 
and send to table at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Suflicient 
for 12 or 14 ramaquin cases. 



484 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,654. TOMATES SAUTEES (SAUTED TOMATOES). 
1 lb. tomatoes. | 3 shallots. | 2 ozs. butter. | seasoning. 
Choose ripe but firm tomatoes, scald, skin, and cut them into shces. Chop the 
shallots. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the sliced tomatoes as soon as 
the butter is hot, sprinkle the shallots, pepper and salt over, and fry them on a 
good fire for about six minutes. When done, dish up, sprinkle with a little chopped 
parsley ,and serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



salt and pepper. I 2 shallots, 

chopped parsley. | breadcrumbs. 



1.655. TOMATES SAUTEES A LA PROVEN^ALE (SAUTED TOMATOES, 

PROVENCALE STYLE). 

4 large tomatoes. 
\ gill salad oil. 

Cut the tomatoes in halves, press out the seeds, season with salt and pepper. 
Put the salad oil into a frying-pan, make it very hot, put in the tomatoes, cut side 
down. When done on that side, turn them over, and cook the other. Put them 
on a baking-tin, sprinkle over them the chopped shallots, chopped parsley, a few 
breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Put them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. 
Dish up, and send them to table quickly. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1.656. TOMATES FARCIES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (TOMATOES STUFFED 

WITH MUSHROOMS). 

1 shallot. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 
\ teaspoonful parsley. 

Cut a circular piece off the top of each tomato, scoop out carefully part of the 
pulp. Rub this pulp through a sieve, so as to remove the seeds. Put the puree 
into the \ gill of brown sauce, chop the mushrooms finely. These are first peeled 
and washed. Peel the shallots, chop them. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the shallots, and fry them a golden brown ; then add the mushrooms, stir 
until cooked, then mix in the parsley, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper. Moisten 
with the brown sauce, stir all well together. Fill up the tomatoes with this mix- 
ture, place them on a buttered baking-tin, sprinkle over each a few brown bread- 
crumbs, place a tiny bit of butter on each, and cook in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes. When done, dish them on a hot dish, garnish with fresh sprigs of parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable alwaj^. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



6 tomatoes. 

6 large fresh mushrooms. 

\\ ozs. butter. 



\ gill brown sauce (No. 6). 
brown breadcrumbs, 
parsley. 



1,657. CROOTES DE TOMATES (TOMATO TOAST). 

4 tomatoes. 4 ozs. ham. 2 eggs. salt. 

2 ozs. butter. 1 shallot. buttered toast. pepper. 

Chop the tomatoes, shallot, and ham. Melt the butter in a stewpan. When 
hot, stir in the shallot, fry a little, then add the ham and tomatoes ; cook over the 
fire for about ten minutes. Take the pan off the fire, add the eggs, well beaten, 
and stir over the fire until it thickens, but it must not be allowed to boil. Make 
three rounds of toast, and butter them. Divide the mixture into three equal parts, 
spread one part on each round of toast, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



4 tomatoes. 

1 shallot. 

2 ozs. flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls milk, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



1 oz. butter. 

2 eggs. 

salt and pepper. 



LEGUMES (VEGETABLES) 485 

1,658. BEIGNETS DE TOMATES (TOMATO FRITTERS). 

1 tablospoonful salad oil. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

J teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Cut the tomatoes in rather thick slices, arrange these in a pie-dish or soup-plate, 
sprinkle them with the chopped shallot, parsley, pepper, and salt, pour over the 
oil and vinegar, and let them stand in this for half an hour. Sieve the flour into 
a basin, work in the yolks of the eggs, the milk, and the butter melted, salt and 
pepper, beat for ten minutes. When ready to fry, beat up the two whites very 
stiffly, and stir them lightly into the batter. Heat the fat until smoking hot, take 
the slices of tomato one at a time, dip them in the batter, and then drop into the 
hot fat. Fry a golden colour, take up, drain on paper, dish up in a pile, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
4 persons. 



1,659. SOUFFLE DE TOMATES A L'lTALIENNE (TOMATO SOUFFLE, 

ITALIAN STYLE). 

^ pint concentrated tomato 3 ozs. butter. I i gill milk. 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. I 3 egga. 
puree (Xo. 77). 1 oz. flour. I pepper. 4 ozs. cooked macaroni. I salt. 

Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, boil until very 
thick and the sauce leaves the sides and bottom of the pan. Stir into it the tomato 
puree, 2 ozs. of grated cheese, season with salt and pepper. Mix these ingredients 
thoroughly over the fire, beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time. Beat the whites 
very stiffly, stir lightly into the mixture. Have the macaroni ready boiled. Melt 
2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the macaroni, mix, and then add the remainder 
of the cheese (1 oz.). Season to taste, stir all together. Butter a china souffle- 
mould, put in a layer of the souffle mixture, on that a layer of the macaroni, then 
the souffle mixture again. Continue in this way until the two preparations are 
used up. Place in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty to tliirty minutes. When 
done, dish up, and send to table without delay. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1.660. TOMATES A LA BOCK. 

8 tomatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. | lemon-juice. | chopped parsley. 

Wipe the tomatoes and peel them. This is best done by putting them into 
boiling water, and leaving them in it for two or three minutes ; the skin can then 
be easily removed. Melt the butter in a stewpan, shce the tomatoes into thick 
ehces, put them into the hot butter, season with salt and pepper, broil them over 
the fire for about ten minutes. Turn them into a hot vegetable-dish, sprinkle a 
few drops of lemon-juice and chopped parsley over them, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1.661. TOMATES AU GRATIN. 

6 tomatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | \\ ozs. grated cheese. | breadcrumbs. | salt. | pepper. 

Cut the tomatoes in sUces, butter a fireproof cUsh with 1 oz. of the butter, lay 
the sHces on it in layers, sprinkle salt, pepper, and cheese over each layer, cover 
the top well vdth. cheese, a few breadcrumbs, and place here and there one or two 
bits of butter. Place the dish in the oven, and bake until nicely browned. 

Average cost. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



486 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,662. TOMATES FARCIES AU GRATIN (STUFFED TOMATOES, 

BAKED). 



6 large tomatoes. 
2 ozs. lean ham. 
2 ozs. butter. 



4 shallots. I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

6 mushrooms. \ gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 
\ gill oil. I I gill demi-glace sauce (No. 29). 



brown breadcrumbs. 
J gill white wine, 
pepper and salt. 



Out the tomatoes in halves, take out the seeds, season with salt and pepper. 
Heat the oil in a saute-pan, put in the tomatoes, cut side down, fry them a little, 
then turn them over, and cook the other side. Chop the ham, shallots, and mush- 
rooms. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shallots (do not allow them to brown), 
put to them the mushrooms, cook a minute, then add the ham, stir for a few minutes, 
pour in the wine, boil until it is reduced to less than haK, then add the Espagnole 
sauce, salt and pepper, and parsley. FUl the tomatoes with this stuffing, place 
them on a buttered fireproof or gratin dish, sprinkle with brown breadcrumbs, put 
a little butter on each, and place in a hot oven to brown. Dish up, pour the demi- 
glace sauce round, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, thirty minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



6 tomatoes. 
1 shallot. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. \ lb. mushrooms. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 1^ ozs. butter. 



1,663. TOMATES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (TOMATOES WITH 

MUSHROOMS). 

salt, 
pepper. 

Peel the mushrooms, wash, dry, and chop them. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a 
stewpan, peel and mince the shallot, fry this in the butter until cooked, but not 
brown ; add the mushrooms, cook over the fire for about ten minutes, then stir in 
the breadcrumbs and the chopped parsley ; allow this to stand by the side of the 
fire for a few minutes, season with salt and pepper. Choose for this dish rather 
small tomatoes, all the same size, firm but ripe. Take a circular piece out of the 
top of each, scoop out the pulp, place the tomatoes upside down on a plate or 
sieve to drain, then season them inside with salt and pepper. Fill the tomatoes 
with the mushroom mixture, sprinkle over the top of each a few brown bread- 
crumbs, put on each a tiny bit of butter. Place the tomatoes on a buttered tin and 
put in the oven for about ten minutes. When done, dress the tomatoes on a hot 
dish, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. These can be served as a vegetable 
with meat, or can be used as a vegetable entree. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,664. TOMATES A LA MARSEILLAISE. 



6 tomatoes. 
2 anchovies. 



1 teaspoonful chopped 



\ gill salad oil. salt. | 2 cloves. 1^ ozs. butter. 

2 hard-boiled eggs, pepper. I 2 shallots, breadcrumbs. parsley. 

Choose the tomatoes rather large, firm, and ripe, wipe and cut them in halves. 
Put the oil into a frying-pan, let it get very hot, then put in the tomatoes, cut sides 
down, and cook quickly for one minute. Chop the shallot finely, crush the cloves, 
bone the anchovies, and chop them and the eggs finely ; mix these ingredients 
together, add the parsley, salt and pepper, and the 1 oz. of butter, melted. Divide 
this mixture into twelve equal portions, and cover the tops of the halved tomatoes 
with it. Sprinkle some fresh breadcrumbs over them, put a tiny piece of butter 
on each, and place in a hot oven for about eight minutes. Dress the tomatoes, 
when done, on a hot dish and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all timda. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 



487 



salt, 
pepper. 



1,665. TOMATES A LA CAROLINE. 

6 tomatoes. 1^ ozs. Parmesan cheese. 2 shallots. 

2 ozs. rice. \ pint stock. 1 oz. butter. 

Melt the butter in a steu7)an, chop the shallots, fry them lightly in the butter, 
then add the rice, fry for a few minutes longer, stir in the stock, and cook until 
the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock ; add a little more stock if necessary. 
As soon as the rice is tender, stir in 1 oz. of cheese, mix thoroughly, season with 
salt and pepper. Choose the tomatoes all the same size ; they should be ripe, but 
firm ; dip them into boiling water, let them soak for a minute or two, then skin 
them carefully. Cut a circular piece out of the top of each tomato, scoop out the 
inside, turn them upside down to drain, season with salt and pepper, and fill them 
with the prepared rice. Pile the mixture above the opening of the tomato, sprinkle 
vdth grated cheese, and put the tomatoes in the oven to bake. Care must be 
taken not to bake them too much ; they will take about ten minutes in a fairly hot 
oven. When done, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 




V 



Fig. 113. — ToMATEs A. l'Andalodse. 



1,636. TOMATES A L'ANDALOUSE (TOMATOES, ANDALUSIAN STYLE). 

3 gills stock. 
I onion. 



6 tomatoes 
3 ozs. rice. 



pepper. 

salt. 



\ gill tomato sauce. I breadcrumbs. 

i oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i 2 ozs. butter. 

Melt l\ ozs. of butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the chopped onion and fry, 
without browning ; then add the rice, fry a Ught brown, stir in the stock, boil until 
the rice is tender and has absorbed the liquor. A little more stock may be found 
necessary. As soon as the rice begins to thicken, keep it well stirred, or it may 
bum. ]Mix in the tomato sauce, the grated cheese, salt and pepper, stir well over 
the fire until thoroughly mixed. Cut a circular slice off the top of the tomatoes, 
scoop out the seeds and some of the pulp, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, 
then fill them with the rice preparation ; sprinkle over some fresh breadcrumbs, 
put a tiny bit of butter on each, and place them in a moderate oven to bake for 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Dish up and serve. BroAvn or Madeira sauce can be 
served with this dish, and is an improvement. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 50 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



488 



THE iDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ lb. macaroni. 

I lb. cooking cheese. 



1,667. TOMATES AUX MACARONI (TOMATOES WITH MACARONI). 

2 ozs. butter. salt. 6 tomatoes. 

1 gill cream. milk. cayenne. 

Boil the macaroni in milk and water until tender. Cut the cheese (American 
or Cheshire) in small pieces. Put the cream into a saucepan, bring to the boil, 
then add the cheese and 1 oz. of butter, stir over the fire until the cheese is melted, 
season with salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter 
in a stewpan, put in the cooked and drained macaroni, stir until thoroughly hot, 
season to taste. Put the tomatoes on a buttered baking-sheet, place them in the 
oven, and bake them whole. Arrange the macaroni on a hot dish, place the tomatoes 
in a circle in the centre, pour the cheese mixture over the tomatoes, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 




Fig. 114. — Tomates Farcies a la Portugaise. 



1,668. TOMATES FARCIES A LA PORTUGAISE (STUFFED TOMATOES, 

PORTUGUESE STYLE). 



4 large tomatoes, 
chopped parsley. 



2 ozs. butter. \ onion. 4 ozs. rice. 

1 pint stock. salt. pepper. 

Take three of the tomatoes and cut them in halves, scoop out the seeds. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in a small frying-pan, let it get very hot ; then put in the tomatoes, 
cut side down, and cook them a little ; turn them to cook the other side ; they must 
not be too much done. Chop the onion finely, melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in 
a.^ stewpan, put in the onion as soon as the butter is hot, and fry a golden colour. 
Then add the raw rice and fry it a few minutes, stirring all the time ; pour in the 
stock, and boil until the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock ; a Httle more 
stock may be added if necessary. Season nicely with pepper and salt. Cut the 
remaining tomato into dice, take away the seeds, and add to the rice ; mix well. 
Stuff the tomatoes with this preparation, shape into a dome-shape, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the }'ear. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



LEGUMES {VEGETABLES) 489 

1,669. TOMATO AND CHEESE PUDDING. 
2 lbs. tomatoes. | 2 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. grated cheese. | 1 gill breadcrumbs. 

Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, cut the tomatoes in slices, put them into the 
butter, and cook them until soft. Mix in half the breadcrumbs and 1| ozs. of the 
cheese, season to taste wdth salt and pepper. Butter a pie-dish, sprinkle over it 
some breadcrumbs, then pour in the tomato mixture ; cover the top Mith grated 
cheese and breadcrumbs. Put a few bits of butter on the top, and bake in a quick 
oven for about twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold for luncheon or supper. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



TRUFFES (TRUFFLES) 

1,670. TRUFFES A LA CREME (TRUFFLES IN CREAM). 

salt. J gill Madeira -wiriQ. 

pepper. ^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Wash the truffles, clean them thoroughly, cut them into thick sUces. Melt the 
butter in a ste\\^an, put in the sliced truffles, add the wine, and cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes ; then add to them the Bechamel sauce, the cream, and seasoning. 
Make the puff-paste into a vol-au-vent case, bake it, then fill mth the truffle 
mixture as soon as ready. The cream should reduce until the sauce is somewhat 
thick. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, fresh truffles cost 6s. to 2Is. per pound, according to quality. 
Time required to cook truffles, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to January. 
Sufficient for (number uncertain). 



1 lb. fresh truffles. 

2 ozs. butter. 



\ pint cream, 
lib. puff -paste. 



1.671. TRUFFES A LA SERVIETTE. 

1 lb. truffles. | 1 gill Madeira wina. \ 1 gill veal stock. | salt. j pepper. 

Wash the truffles, brush them to free from grit, drain and dry, put them into a 
stewpan with the wine, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put on the lid, and cook 
them slowly. When the wine is nearly reduced, add the stock, and put the pan at 
the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, but do not let it boil again. Dish up the 
truffles, and strain the sauce over. Place the dish on a folded napkin, and serve. 

Average cost of truffles, 6s. to 21s. per pound. Time required, 45 minutes. 
Seasonable, October to January. Sufficient for (number uncertain). 

1.672. TRUFFES SOUS LA CENDRE. 

6 large truffles. | pastry. | a little cognac. | salt. | pepper. 

Wash the truffles, scrub off all the grit, wash again, drain and dry. Roll out 
some tartlet-paste, cut out some rounds, place a truffle in the centre of each, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and a few drops of cognac ; work the paste round the truffle 
so that they are completely covered. Place them on a baking-sheet, and cook in 
the oven for about thirty minutes. Dish up, and serve them in the pastry. 

Average cost, 6s. to 21s. per pound. Time required, 30 minutes to cook. 
Seasonable, October to January. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,673. PUREE DE TRUFFES. 
J lb. truffles. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). | salt. | pepper. | 1 oz. glaze. 

Wash and peel the truffles, put them into a mortar with the butter and pound 
well, then rub them through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan, season 
with salt and pepper, add the sauce, simmer for ten minutes, add the glaze, dish up 
on a hot dish, and serve. 



CHAPTER XIX 

VEGETABLE ENTREES (COLD) 

1,674. PETITES MOUSSES D'ARTICHAUTS (LITTLE ARTICHOKE 

CREAMS). 

8 preserved artichoke bottoma 1 IJ gills cream, j aspic jelly. ^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
J lb. cooked chicken. I salt and pepper. | truffle. parsley or small salad. 

MmcE the chicken finely, drain the artichokes, dry them in a cloth, put them 
in a mortar with the chicken, and pound thoroughly ; add the Bechamel sauce, mix 
to a smooth paste, then rub through a sieve. Put this puree into a basin, season 
to taste with salt and pepper, mix in about 1| gills of cold but hquid aspic jelly ; 
whip the cream sHghtly, and stir it into the rest of the ingredients. Have ready 
some dariole-moulds, lined with a thin coating of aspic and decorated with truffle 
cut out in fancy patterns. Set on ice. As soon as the above mixture is ready, fill 
up the moulds with it, and let them set. When ready, turn out on to an entree- 
dish. Arrange them in a circular row, garnish with chopped aspic and parsley 
or salad. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 9 darioles. 

1,675. ASPERGES A LA VINAIGRETTE (ASPARAGUS COLD, SAUCE 

VINAIGRETTE). 

1 bundle asparagus. j 1 tablespoonful tarragon 1 teaspoonful parsley, salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls olive oil. I vinegar. tarragon, chervil. pepper. 

Clean the asparagus, tie them round with string, cut the ends all the same length. 
Cook the asparagus in boiling salted water. When tender, take them up, place on 
a sieve, and let it get quite cold. Dish up, and put on ice until ready to serve. 
Mix together the oHve oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, chop the herbs very finely, 
and stir them into the oil and vinegar ; mix well, and send it to table with the 
asparagus. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, May to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,676. ASPERGES A LA MAYONNAISE (COLD ASPARAGUS WITH 

MAYONNAISE). 
50 heads of asparagus. | IJ gills mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). | J gill cream. | salt. | pepper. 

Clean the asparagus, scrape the stalks, tie in bundles, and cut the sticks all the 
same length. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water seasoned with salt, cook 
until the heads are tender, then lift them carefully out of the saucepan, drain, and 
put them on a plate to cool. When cold, dish them, and place on ice until ready to 
serve. Prepare the mayonnaise, stir the whipped cream into it, and send to table 
iwith the asparagus. 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, May to August. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons, 

490 



VEGETABLE ENTREES {COLD) 



491 



1,677. FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA RHINE (ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, 

QUEEN STYLE). 



aspic jelly, 
truffle. 



salt, 
pepper. 



8 preserved artichokes. I 4 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 terrine of foie-gras. | J gill cream. 

Drain and dry the artichokes on a cloth, then with a pair of scissors scallop the 
edges of the artichokes, so as to give them pretty borders. Rub the foie-gras 
through a fine sieve, first removing the fat and truffle ; mix the cream into this 
puree, and season to taste. Pour a Uttle aspic jelly over the artichokes, then put 
a little of the foie-gras pur^e into each fond. Choose some small eggs, boil them 
for twelve to fifteen minutes, then put them into cold water. When cold, shell 
them carefully, cut each in half, take out the yolks so as not to break the whites ; 
pass the yolks through a sieve, mix them into the remainder of the foie-gras puree. 
Cut the tip of each egg so as to make it stand firmly, put the foie-gras mixture into 
a forcing-bag, and fill up tho whites of the eggs with it in a dome-shape. Place a 
small star of truffle on the top of each. Mask them all over with half-set aspic jelly. 
Dish up and garnish with chopped aspic and parsley or small salad. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
8 persons. 





^ 


rA 


1 


1 




li^ 




P^hI 


^ 




iH 


^^K 'IH^^^^B^^^^^Nk 


L/JJ 


^K'\<r. ^^ ,■ .■-"'' 




^^^1 




r^ 


^n 


^i 


1 




M 



Fig. 115. — Fonds d'Artichauts 1 la Reine. 



1,678. TIMBALE D'ASPERGES A LA VERT-PRE (TIMBALE OF 

COLD ASPARAGUS). 



1 large bundle asparagus. 
1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). 



aspic jelly, 
salt. 



1 gill cream. 
1^ oz. gelatine. 

Wash the asparagus, scrape the stalks, tie them up in small bundles, cut the 
sticks all the same length ; boil the asparagus in a saucepan of boiling water, 
seasoned with salt. When tender, drain, and let it get cold. Coat the bottom and 
sides of a plain timbale-mould, let this set ; then take some of the asparagus and 
cut it in short lengths, fit these into the bottom of the mould, so that the heads are 
to the centre and all touching each other, arranged Uke the biscuits in a Charlotte 
Russe. After this put some of the asparagus round the sides of the mould, standing 
up close to each other, heads down ; set these in with a layer of aspic jelly. Rub 
the remainder of the asparagus through a hair sieve. Put the sauce into a stewpan, 
make it hot, add the gelatine. When this is melted, strain it into a basin to cool, 
then add this to the asparagus puree. Whip the cream sUghtly, and add it to the 



1 bundle asparagus. 

IJ gills asparagus -points. 

l| giUs cream. 



salt, 
pepper. 
1 truffle. 



I teaspoonful parsley, 

tarragon, chervil. 
pepper. 



492 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

rest of the ingredients ; season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill the centre of 
the decorated mould nearly to the top ; when set, pour a layer of aspic jelly over. 
Put on ice until ready to serve. Turn out the mould on to an entree-dish, garnish 
round the base mth chopped aspic, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable, May to AugiTet. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,679. CHAUDFROID D'ASPERGES (COLD ASPARAGUS). 

1 pint aspic jelly (No. 2.51). 

2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
2 teaspoonfuls vinegar. 

Wash the asparagus, scrape the stalks, and tie up in bundles ; cut the stems all 
the same length, put the bundles into boihng salted water in a stewpan, cook until 
tender ; then drain, untie, and let them get cold. Cook the asparagus -points in 
the same way, drain, cool, and rub through a fine sieve. Put this puree into a basin. 
Line a bomb-shaped (1 pint size) mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly. When this 
is set, decorate it with truffle, cut out in fancy patterns ; set these by sprinkUng 
over them a few drops of aspic. WTien this is firm, line the mould all over with 
aspic cream. This is made with \ pint of aspic jelly, mixed with 1 gill of cream. 
Mix into the puree of asparagus-points in the basin the remaining | gill of cream 
and 1 gill of aspic jelly, fill the mould nearly to the top with this, then over the top 
put a layer of aspic cream. Put the mould on ice, and let set. Turn on to a 
round dish, dress the cooked asparagus round the shape, mix together the oil, 
vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and salt ; pour this over the asparagus, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, February to July. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,680. PETITS PANIERS A LA JARDINIERE (LITTLE BASKETS 

OF VEGETABLES). 
J lb. short-paste. | 1 gill mixed vegetables. | oil. | aspic jelly. | vinegar. | salt. | pepper. 

Roll out the pastry and Une six round fancy moulds with it ; also cut out three 
rounds of pastry with a round fancy cutter. Take out the centre with a smaller 
cutter, leaving a ring about | inch in breadth. Cut each ring in half ; these will 
form the handles to the baskets. Arrange them on a baking-sheet, fill the insides 
of the fancy moulds with raw rice, put into a hot oven, and bake a pale colour. 
Cook ready some mixed vegetables — i.e., carrots and turnips (these cut in dice), 
peas, and beans. These vegetables are cooked separately in salted water, then 
mixed together when cold. Place the prepared vegetables in a basin, add to them 
a little oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, mix thoroughly, add to them a little aspic jelly. 
When the pastry-shapes are baked, take them out of the oven, turn them out of 
the tins, take out the rice carefully, and let them get quite cold. Then fill them 
with the prepared vegetables, pour a half-set aspic over the top, insert the handles, 
and dish up. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley (see 
coloured plate). 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year, if preserved 
vegetables are used. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,681. BETTERAVES FARCIES AU CELERI (BEETROOT STUFFED 

WITH CELERY). 

2 large cooked beetroots. mayonnaise sauce I parsley. 

1 small head of celery. (No. 134). | large artichoke bottoms. 

Peel the beetroots, cut them in sKces about 1| inches in thickness ; cut these 
slices into rounds with a fluted cutter, 2 inches in diameter, take the centre out of 
each with a smaller cutter, in this way making httle cases of the beetroot. Take 





NO) 



c3 



w 

in 

c 

Oh 



(U 

Oh 



VEGETABLE ENTREES {COLD) 



493 



the whitest part of the celery, wash it thoroughly, and then cut into fine shreds ; 
place these in a basin, and mix with a httle mayonnaise sauce. Stand each beet- 
root case on a large artichoke bottom, fill the centre of the case with the celery, 
piling it up above the beetroot. Sprinkle a httle chopped parsley on the top of 
each, arrange them neatly on a dish, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley or 
watercress. Serve cold. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,682. COUPES DE CONCOMBRES. 



1 large cucumber. 
\ lb. cold chicken. 



2 ozs. cooked ham. 
1 gill cream. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 13-t). 1 watercress. 

1 gill aspic jelly (No. 251). | salt and pepper. 

Remove all skin from the chicken, and then mince it finely ; also the ham. 
Put both into a mortar, with two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, salt and 
pepper ; pound well, and then rub through a fine sieve. Mix 1 gill of hquid aspic 
jelly with tliis puree ; whip the cream shghtly, and stir into the chicken mixture. 
Cut the cucumber into shces about 1^ inches thick, without peeling it. Then with 




Fig. 116. — Coupes db Concombres. 



a small knife cut a narrow strip out of the cucumber, just the depth of the skin ; 
leave a space equal in width to the piece taken out, and then remove anothei 
strip ; continue in this way until the cucumber is encircled. This gives a very 
pretty scalloped effect to the cucumber. Remove some of the centre of each shce 
of cucumber, and, when the chicken puree is nearly set, fill each one with it by 
means of a forcing-bag and pipe. Arrange them on a dish, and garnish with sprigs 
of watercress or parsley. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,683. CHOU-DE-MER A LA MAYONNAISE (COLD SEAKALE WITH 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE). 

1 basket of seakale. | 1 lemon. | salt. | \ gill cream. | 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

Wash the seakale, trim, and put it into a basin of water, seasoned with a httle 

salt. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, add to it the juice of half a lemon, 

and a httle salt ; drain the seakale, tie it in bundles, and put into the boihng water ; 



494 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



add also the juice of half a lemon. Cook the seakale until tender. When done, 
drain it, and let it get cold ; stand on ice or place it in an ice-cave or refrigerator 
for about two hours. Mix the mayonnaise sauce and the whipped cream together, 
and, when ready to serve, dish the seakale on a cold dish, pour the sauce over, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable, February to June. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,684. DARIOLES DE PETITS POIS (DARIOLES OF PEAS). 

1^ pints shelled peas. | aspic jelly (No. 251). | 1 gill cream. | salt. | popper. 

Cook the peas in salted, boiling water until tender. Coat six or eight dariole- 
moulds with aspic jelly ; when this is set, line them all over with the cooked peas, 
sides and bottom. Sprinkle over these some more jelly to set them. Rub the 
remainder of the peas through a hair sieve, put this puree into a basin, whip the 
cream slightly and stir it into the sieved peas, season nicely with salt and pepper ; 




Fio. 117. — Darioles db Petits Pois. 



fill the lined moulds with this mixture, nearly to the top, pour over the top of each 
a layer of aspic jelly ; set the moulds on ice until ready to serve. Turn out on to 
an entree-dish in a circle, put some chopped aspic in the centre, garnish with small 
salad, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1 to H hours. Seasonable, June to 
August. Sufficient for 6 or 8 darioles. 

1,685. PETITES DARIOLES DE LEGUMES EN ASPIC (LITTLE 
DARIOLES OF VEGETABLES IN ASPIC). 



J pint macedoine of 

vegetables. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
3 anchovies. 



1 tablespoonful capers, 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



1 truffle, 
parsley. 



Line some small dariole-moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Have ready 
cooked a macedoine of vegetables — i.e., carrots, turnips, and beans, cut in dice, 
and green peas. Cook all these vegetables separately in salted boiUng water, drain, 
and let them get cold. Now line the Httle moulds all over, sides and bottom, with 
circular rows of the different kinds of vegetables, alternating the colours ; set these 
in with a few drops of aspic jelly sprinkled over. When this is set, put on a httle 
more aspic, so that the decoration may be well coated. After this is done, put the 



VEGETABLE ENTREES {COLD) 



495 



remainder of the vegetables into a basin, add the capers, the boned anchovies, cut 
up small, and the truffle, sHced ; mix all well together, season to taste, and mix in 
sufficient mayonnaise to bind and season the mixture ; add enough aspic jelly to 
make the preparation set. Fill the prepared moulds with this, and put the tins 
on ice to set. When ready to serve, turn them on to a dish, garnish with chopped 
aspic and sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. ^ Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 moulds. 



1,686. CREME DE CELERI (COLD CREAM OF CELERY). 



1 large head of celery. 
1 gill cream. 



J lemon. 



1 tablespoonful mayomiaise 
sauce (No. 134). 



salt and pepper, 
milk. 



truffle, 
lettuce. 



aspic jelly. 

Wash the celery, trim off the outside leaves, cut it in pieces, and put it into a 
basin of water containing salt and the juice of half a lemon. Put into a stewpan 
sufficient milk and water in equal parts to well cover the celery, bring to the boil, 




Fig. 118.— Cremb dh Celeei. 



drain the celery, and drop it into the boiUng milk and water ; season with salt, and 
cook until tender. Drain when done, and rub it through a hair sieve ; let it get 
cold, then mix with it in a basin the whipped cream and the mayonnaise sauce, 
add sufficient aspic jelly to make it set, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a tiny ^ 
pinch of cayenne. Decorate a timbale-mould with aspic jelly and the truffle, cut 
out in fancy shapes ; set these in with a few drops of aspic sprinkled over. When 
quite set, put in the celery cream, and put on ice until wanted. Turn out, and dish 
up on lettuce-leaves, and garnish with groups of chopped aspic. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



6 tomatoes, 
aspic jelly. 



1,687 

6 pickled walnuts. 
4 hard-boiled eggs. 



TOMATES A LA LUCULLUS 
oil. 



1 gill mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 134). 



1 lettuce. 

salt and pepper. 



vinegar. 

Choose the tomatoes as much as possible the same size ; they should be ripe, 
but firm. Dip the tomatoes into boiUng water, let them soak for a minute or two, 
then skin them carefully. Cut out a circular piece on the top of each, scoop out 
the inside, drain by turning them upside down on a sieve. Season the tomatoes 
inside with salt and pepper, put in each a layer of mayonnaise, then a pickled walnut, 
PT. VII. 32 



496 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



then some more mayonnaise, put back on each the circular piece that was cut out, 
so that they look like whole tomatoes. Wash the lettuce, divide it into leaves, 
arrange six of the nicest leaves on an entree-dish, place a tomato on the centre of 
each leaf. Shell the hard-boiled eggs, cut them in slices, arrange the sUces of egg 
neatly round each tomato, season these with pepper, salt, and sprinkle over a few 
drops of oil and vinegar. Garnish the dish between the tomatoes with chopped 
aspic. Serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,688. MOUSSES DE PETITS POIS (LITTLE MOUSSES OF PEAS). 

1 pint shelled peas. I aspic jolly. ! 8 or 10 ramaquin cases I \ gill Bechamel sauce (No, 4). 
spinach greening. I 1^ gills cream. I (paper or china). 1 salt and pepper. 

Cook the peas in salted boiling water until tender, drain and rub them through 
a hair sieve. Put this puree into a basin, and mix into it the Bechamel sauce. 
Whip the cream lightly ; melt about 1 gill of aspic jelly. Take away and put on one 




Fig. 119. — Mousses de Petits Pois. 

side for decoration one-quarter of the pea puree ; into the remainder mix the gill 
of aspic and 1 gill of cream, season to taste ; fill the little cases with this mixture. 
Mix the remaining | gill of cream with the pea puree that was put aside for decoration. 
If not a nice green colour, mix in a Uttle spinach greening. Fill this puree into a 
forcing-bag, with a rose-pipe attached to it, and decorate the top of each mousse 
with it tastefully as soon as they are set. Dish them up on an entree-dish, and 
garnish round with sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 cases. 



1,689. TOMATES A LA DUBARRY. 

8 tomatoes. salt and pepper. I 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

1 cauliflower. parsley. | mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

Select tomatoes all the same size, peel them by dipping in boiling water, make 
a circular incision on the top of each tomato, and then carefully scoop out the 
centre. Boil the cauliflower in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and let it 
get cold. Divide the flower into small sprigs, put these into a basin, season then) 



VEGETABLE ENTREES {COLD) 



497 



with salt and pepper, add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to moisten, sprinkle in the 
parsley, mix aU together Ughtly. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, pile the 
mixture above the opening of the tomato, sprinkle with a httle chopped parsley, 
and dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
November. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,690. TOMATES EN SURPRISE. 

1 gill cooked asparagus- 



1^ gills mayonnaise sauce (No. 134.) 
2 gills aspic jelly (No. 251). 



1 gill cream, 
small ealad. 



pomts. 



salt, 
pepper. 

Mix the mayonnaise with | gill of cream and 1^ gills of aspic jelly. Rinse out 
some tomato-moulds with cold water, fill them with the above mixture, put on ice, 
and let them set ; then very carefully scoop out the centre of each, leaving a lining 
round of the mayonnaise aspic. Mix the cooked asparagus-points with the re- 
maining I gill of cream, add to it the same quantity of aspic jelly, season with 




Fig. 120. — Tomates en Surprise. 



Bait and pepper, stir on ice until just beginning to set, then fill the centres of the 
moulds with this preparation. Place the two halves of each mould together, taking 
^ care that the marks of each part are opposite each other. Put on ice, and let them 
get thoroughly set. Turn out the moulds carefully, dish up, and garnish with 
small salad and chopped aspic, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1| to 2 hours. Seasonable, March to 
July. Sufficient for 8 or 10 moulds. 

1,691. TOMATES A LA JARDINIERE (TOMATOES WITH SPRING 

VEGETABLES). 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

1 truffle. 

mayormaise sauoe (No. 134). 



salt. 

pepper. 

parsley. 



8 tomatoes. I 1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

1 gill cooked mac^doine | 1 teaspoonful capers, 
of vegetables. ' ^ tablespoonful vinegar. 

Choose the tomatoes all the same size, place them in boihng water for a few 
seconds, then take them out and peel carefully. Make a circular incision on the 
top of each, scoop out the inside, season with salt and pepper, and let drain on a 
sieve. Mix the vegetables — i.e., carrots, turnips (cut in dice), beans (shced small), 
and peas. Cook these ready, and let them get cold ; place in a basin, mix in the 
capers, chopped parsley, salad oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, stir all well together ; 

32—2 



498 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

then fill the tomatoes with the preparation, put back the piece of tomato that was 
cut out, so as to make them look like untouched tomatoes. Coat them all over 
with stiff mayonnaise sauce, decorate them with truffle, dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



1,692. TOMATES A LA RAVIGOTE. 



6 tomatoes. 



1 teaspoonful anchovy 
essence. 



1 gill picked shrimps. salt, 

parsley. ravigote sauce (No. 139). pepper. 

Peel the tomatoes by dipping them into boiling water, cut with a sharp knife 
or cutter a circular incision on the top of each tomato, scoop out the inside of each 
carefully with a small teaspoon, season with salt and pepper, turn them upside 
down on a sieve, so as to drain away all moisture. Chop the shrimps coarsely, 
mix them with sufficient ravigote sauce to bind, add the anchovy essence, and season 
to taste. FiU the tomatoes with this mixture, put on ice until wanted. When 
ready to serve, dish up on a napkin or dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of fresh 
parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at ail times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,693. TOMATES A LA FRANCAISE. 

8 tomatoes. vinegar. salt and pepper. 4 ozs. cooked chicken. 

salad oil. lettuces. 6 anchovies. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

i 

Skin the tomatoes by steeping them in boiling water for one or two minutes. 
Cut a circular piece out of the top of each tomato, scoop out the inside carefully, 
so as not to break them. Turn them upside down on a sieve to drain for a few 
minutes, then sprinkle the insides with salt and pepper, a few drops of salad oil and 
vinegar. Wash and scrape the anchovies, take out the bones, and cut into fine 
strips ; cut the chicken into shreds ; mix the anchovy and chicken strips together, 
and fill up the tomatoes with them. Wash the lettuces, shred the hearts into nice 
pieces, mix these with a little salad oil and vinegar. Arrange this salad in a dish, 
dress the tomatoes on it in a circle, sHce the hard-boiled eggs, or cut them in quarters, 
garnish the dish with them, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,694. TOMATES AU MOUSSE DE CHOUFLEUR (TOMATOES WITH 

CAULIFLOWER MOUSSE). 



6 tomatoes. 

1 small cauUflower. 



salt. I cayenne. 



1 gill cream. 

aspic jeUy. pepper. ! parsley. 

Choose the tomatoes as much as possible the same size ; they should be ripe, 
but quite firm ; put them into boiUng water for a few minutes, then skin carefully, 
so as not to break the tomatoes. Cut a round piece out of the top of each tomato 
with a sharp knife, and scoop out some of the pulp ; pass this through a fine sieve. 
Boil the cauliflower in salted water ; when done, drain well, let it cool, then rub 
it through a hair sieve. Take 1 gill of this puree, add it to the tomato pulp, stir 
in 1 gill of aspic jelly, season nicely with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. 
Whip the cream sHghtly, and add it to the rest of the ingredients, stirring it in 
quickly and lightly. Put the basin containing the mixture on ice, and let it half- 
set ; then fill up the tomatoes with it. Put these again on ice until quite set. 
Dish up, and garnish them with chopped aspic and sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. Seasonable, March to 
November. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



VEGETABLE ENTREES {COLD) 499 

1,695. TOMATES A LA CRfiOLE. 

6 ripe firm tomatoes. I 12 shelled walnuts. ^ head celery. I salt, 

mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 1 lettuce-leaves. parsley. I pepper. 

Wipe the tomatoes, cut a circular slice out of the top of each with a round 
cutter, scoop out the centre of each tomato with a small teaspoon, taking care not 
to break the skin. Wash the celery, use the heart only ; shred this finely, and put 
it into a basin. Chop the walnuts coarsely (these should first be skinned), mix 
them mth the celery, season with salt and pepper, and moisten \nth mayonnaise 
sufficient to bind the ingredients together. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, 
and place them on ice until wanted. When ready to serve, arrange on a round 
entree-dish a bed of lettuce-leaves, dish the tomatoes on them, garnish with sprigs 
of fresh parsley round the dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,696. TOMATES EN MAYONNAISE (TOMATOES STUFFED WITH 

MAYONNAISE). 



6 tomatoes. 
^ pint mayonnaise 
sauoe (No. 134). 



J pint aspic jelly (No. 251). 
I teaspoonful chopped capers, 
salt and pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 

tarragon, and chervil, 
parsley. 

Choose tomatoes all the same size, skin them ; this is done by placing them in 
boiling water for a few seconds. Cut a circular slice off the top of each tomato, 
put these aside to use later. Prepare the mayonnaise, which should be stiff, add 
to it the chopped herbs, capers, salt and pepper. Season the insides of the tomatoes 
and fill them Anth the prepared sauce ; put on each the circular sHce that was 
removed, so that they look like whole tomatoes ; put them on the ice for about one 
hour, then mask them all over with half-set aspic jelly. Dish them, and garnish 
with chopped aspic jelly and sprigs of crisp parsley. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons, 

1,697. TOMATES A LA NEVA. 



8 tomatoes. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



1^ gills cooked carrot, | 4 anchovy fillets. 
2 gherkins. turnip, peas, beans. I 2 ozs. cooked tongue. salt and pepper. 

Choose the tomatoes all the same size, peel them, cut a circular shce from the 
top of each, scoop out the inside, season them with salt and pepper. Cut the 
tongue into dice, the cooked carrot and turnip, the beans in small pieces, mix these 
with the tongue ; cut the gherkins and anchovy fillets into small pieces, stir these 
into the rest of the ingredients, season to taste, and mix in sufficient mayonnaise 
to bind. Fill the tomatoes with this salad, set them on ice until ready to serve. 
Dish up, and garnish with parsley or small salad. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 



lettuce. I turnips, 
carrots. | J gill cream. 



1,698. TIMBALE DE LEGUMES A LA NORMANDE (TIMBALE OF 
VEGETABLES, NORMAN STYLE). 

aspic jelly (No. 251). I mayonnaise sauce 
mixed vegetables. | (No. 134). 

Line a deep border-mould (timbale shape) -with a thin layer of aspic jelly. 
Clean the carrots and turnips, and cook them separately in boihng salted water ; 
when tender, take them up and let them cool. Then cut each in thin slices, and 
stamp out rounds from them with a cutter about the size of a shilling. Place a 
row of carrot circles round the timbale, leaning against the side of the mould, 
and each piece of carrot sUghtly overlapping the previous one. Set this in carefully 
with a Uttle hquid aspic jelly. When quite firm, make a similar row of turmpa. 



500 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



half-way up the mould, making the rounds overlap in the opposite direction to 
the carrot ones. Set these in also with aspic, and then finish with another row of 
carrot at the top of the mould. Whip the cream Ughtly, mix into it | gill of mayon- 
naise sauce and \\ gills of aspic jelly. Line the mould completely with this mixture. 
Put some mixed vegetables into a basin, mix into it the remains of the aspic mayon- 
naise and a Httle more aspic jelly. When beginning to set, turn it into the cavity 
left in the mould ; cover the top with a thin layer of aspic jelly, put aside in a cool 
place to set. Wash the lettuces thoroughly, and break into small pieces, and mix 
with a little mayonnaise sauce. Turn the mould out on to a cold dish, and fill the 
centre with the lettuce salad. Cut out some more rounds of carrot and turnip, the 
size of a sixpence, place these on the top of the mould, leaning against the lettuce ; 
they must be placed alternately, first a piece of carrot, then a piece of turnip, 
overlapping the previous one. Continue in this way until the mould is encircled. 
Garnish round the dish with lettuce-leaves, mixed vegetables, and chopped aspic 
jelly. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 




Fig. 121. — Timbale db Legumes a la Normande. 



1,699. TOMATES FARCIES A L'ASPIC (TOMATOES STUFFED WITH 

ASPIC). 



6 tomatoes. 
1^ pints aspic. 
3 sardines. 



2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 
1 teaspoonful chopped capers, 
anchovy essence. 



mayonnaise sauce 

(No. 134). 
small salad. 



parsley. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Choose the tomatoes all the same size, and not too large ; they should be firm, 
but ripe. Cut a circular piece out of the top of each, and then carefully, without 
breaking the tomatoes, scoop out the centre ; this is best done with a small teaspoon. 
Rub the yolks of the eggs through a sieve, put them into a basin ; scrape the scales 
off the sardines, take out the bones, and chop the fish finely, also the capers and a 
little parsley. Mix these with the yolks of eggs in the basin, stir to these about 
I gill of mayonnaise sauce and the same of aspic, season with salt and pepper, 
add a Httle anchovy essence, put this mixture on ice, and stir until half -set ; then 
fill the tomatoes, and put back on the ice to set. Put a layer of aspic jelly, 1 inch 
thick, in a flat mould, place on ice, and let it set. As soon as it is firm, cut out six 
rounds with a round fluted cutter, a little bigger than the tomatoes, scoop out a small 




U 

a 
(ft 

'G 



V) 

> 

+-' 
+-• 



VEGETABLE ENTREES {COLD) 501 

piece in the centre of each with a smaller cutter, just large enough to hold the 
tomato. When the mixture in the tomatoes is set, coat them over with half -set 
aspic, dish on the rounds of aspic, and garnish with chopped aspic and small salad, 
and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

1,700. PETITES BOMBES DE TOMATES. 

i pint tomato puree (No. 77). | J oz. gelatine. | aspic jelly. | 3 eggs. | small salad. 

Melt the gelatine in \ pint of aspic jelly ; when cool, stir it into the tomato 
puree. Kinse out some bomb-shaped moulds, or dariole-moulds wiU do ; fill them 
half -full with the prepared tomato mixture. Boil the eggs hard, cut each one in 
half, insert half an egg into the centre of each mould, pour round a Uttle of the 
tomato mixture in order to set the egg. When this is done, fill up the moulds with 
the tomato jelly ; place the moulds on ice. When thoroughly set, turn them out 
on to a cold dish, and garnish them with chopped aspic and small salad. Serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,701. TOMATES FARCIES AUX CELERI (TOMATOES STUFFED 

WITH CELERY). 

6 ripe firm tomatoes. 1 head of celery. I salt. I 2 lettuces, 

mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). aspic jelly. | pepper. | parsley. 

Wipe the tomatoes, make a circular incision with a round cutter on the top of 
each tomato, scoop out the centre of each with a small teaspoon, taking care not 
to break the tomatoes. Wash the celery, take the heart and shred it finely, put 
it into a basin, season with salt and pepper, add sufficient mayonnaise to bind. 
Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, put on ice until required for table. When 
ready to serve, dish the tomatoes on lettuce-leaves, arranged on a round dish, garnish 
with parsley and a little aspic jelly, either chopped or cut in diamond shapes. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



CHAPTER XX 

FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 

1,702. GNOCCHI A LA RUSSE. 

3 ozs. butter. ^ pint milk. I 3 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. salt. 

4 ozs. flour. 3 eggs. I Momay sauce (No. 110). pepper. 

Put the butter into a stewpan ; directly it is melted put in the milk, and bring 
to the boil. Have the flour ready sieved, and as soon as the milk and butter come 
to the boil, put in the flour quickly, and stir vigorously with a wooden spoon over 
the fire until the mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the stewpan clean. Take 
the pan off the fire and let it cool for a few minutes, then work in the eggs one at a 
time, beat well, season to taste, stir in the cheese, mix well. Divide this into equal 
parts, the size of walnuts, drop these into boiUng salted water, and poach them for 
about ten minutes. Drain them on a cloth. Put a layer of Momay sauce on a 
fireproof dish, place the gnocchi on this, pour the sauce over, sprinkle with cheese 
and a little melted butter, and set in a hot oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,703. GNOCCHI A LA ROMAINE 



1 pint milk. 



1 oz. cheese. 
1 oz. butter. 



6 ozs. semolina. 
1 yolk of egg. salt and pepper. 

Boil the milk in a stewpan ; as soon as it comes to the boil, sprinkle in the 
semolina, add salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until done ; it will take 
fifteen to twenty minutes to cook. Take the pan off the fire, and let it cool for a 
few minutes, then beat in the yolk of egg ; sprinkle a dish with cold water, turn the 
mixture on to it, spread it in a layer | inch thick. When cold, cut it out in squares 
or rounds, about 2 inches across. Arrange the gnocchi in a buttered fireproof 
dish, sprinkle with cheese and the butter, melted, and place in a hot oven to brown. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,704. GNOCCHI DE POMMES DE TERRE. 



1 lb. potatoes. 1 small egg. | salt. 

1 oz. butter. 



1 yolk of egg. 
grated cheese. 



6 ozs. flour. I pepper. 

Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, drain, and pass them through a sieve. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the potatoes, mix, and add the eggs, flour, pepper and 
salt ; stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Turn on to a plate, and, when cool 
enough to handle, divide the mixture into equal-sized pieces, the size of walnuts, 
shape them into balls, and poach in boihng water. When they are firm, take them 
up and drain, dish them on a fireproof dish in layers, putting over each layer a 
sprinkle of grated cheese, cover the top layer with cheese, and sprinkle all over 
with melted butter. Put the dish in a hot oven to brown. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

602 



FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 



503 



1,705. GNOCCHI A LA MILANESE. 



i pint fresh breadcrumbs. 
1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



2 egg-yolks. 

1 gill milk (about). 



li^ ozs. flour. 
1 oz. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



]\Iix the breadcrumbs and flour together in a basin, stir in the milk, and work 
to a smooth paste. Put this mixture into a stewpan, place it on the fire, and stir 
until thick ; then add the yolks of the eggs, cook a Uttle longer, season with salt 
and pepper. Divide this paste into equal parts, drop, them into a saucepan of 
boiHng water, and cook for about ten minutes. Take them up when done, pile them 
on a hot dish, sprinkle \ntli the grated cheese, divide the butter into Uttle pieces, 
place them on the top, brown in the oven, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. SuflS- 
cient for 3 persons. 




Fig. 122. — Fried Gnocchi. 



1,706. FRIED GNOCCHI. 

J lb. flour. I 2 eggs. I 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. I salt. 
\ pint milk. I flour. I 2 ozs. butter. ] pepper. 

Put the milk into a stewpan, sieve the flour on to a piece of paper, bring the 
milk to the boil, then put in the flour all at once, and stir vigorously until the 
mixture leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean ; then take the pan off the 
fire and beat in the eggs, one at a time, until perfectly smooth. Season with salt 
and pepper, and then turn the preparation on to a plate to cool. When cold, divide 
the mixture into nine equal parts, shape each piece into squares, dredge them 
hghtly with flour. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and, when hot, put in the 
gnocchi and fry them. When cooked, drain on paper, dish them in a pile on a hot 
dish, sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over them, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 9 squares, 1| inches square. 

1,707. BORDURE DE RIZ AUX CHAMPIGNONS (BORDER OF RICE 

WITH MUSHROOMS). 



^ lb. rice. 

2 cloves. 



1 quart water. 
3 yolks of eggs. 



1 onion. | salt. I 1 lb. mushrooms. 

3 ozs. butter. pepper. I chopped parsley. 

Put the water (or stock can be used if not for a vegetarian dish) into a stewpan 
with the onion, stuck with the two cloves, bring to the boil, then sprinkle in the 



504 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

rice, add some salt, and simmer until the rice is tender. As soon as the rice begins 
to swell, it must be constantly stirred to prevent its burning ; a little more stock or 
water may be added if necessary. The rice should have absorbed the liquor by 
the time it is cooked. Take it off the fire when done, and let it cool a Uttle ; stir 
in the beaten yolks of eggs and \\ ozs. of butter broken up into small pieces, 
season with salt and pepper. Take out the onion and cloves. Butter a border- 
mould well, pack in the rice, press it down, and place the mould in a quick oven 
for about twenty minutes. Put the remainder of the butter into a small stewpan, 
peel the mushrooms, wash and dry them, put them into the hot butter, and toss 
over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes ; season to taste with salt and pepper. A 
little cream is an improvement. When ready to serve, turn out the border of rice 
on to a hot dish, dress the mushrooms in the centre, and serve. 

Average cost. Is, 6d. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,708. RIZ A L'INDIENNE (CURRIED RICE). 

4 ozs. rice. 2 ozs. butter. | 1 dessertspoonful curry- | salt. 

1 onion. 4 tomatoes. I powder. I pepper. 

Wash the rice, drain it, and put it into a quart of boiling water, shghtly salted ; 
boil quickly until the rice is tender. Then drain and wash under the tap, so as 
to remove the sticky part and to separate the grains ; put the rice on a baking-sheet 
in the oven to dry for a few minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, shce the onion 
finely, fry it a golden brown ; then add the curry-powder, fry for a few minutes, 
stir in the rice, mix all together, and let it get thoroughly hot. Cut the tomatoes 
in shces, saute them in butter. Dress the rice in a pile in the centre of a dish, 
arrange the tomatoes round, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, .30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



1,709. RISOTTO A L'lTALIENNE (ITALIAN RISOTTO). 



6 ozs. rice. 



1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
peppar. 



1 onion, j 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 
IJ ozs. butter. salt. 1| pints stock or water. 

Wash the rice, peel and chop the onion, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the 
onion, and fry it a golden brown colour ; stir in the rice and fry a Uttle, then add the 
stock or water, and cook until the rice is tender and has absorbed the stock. Add 
the sauce and the cheese, cook a little longer, season with salt and pepper, mix 
well, and serve. The stock or water used for cooking the rice should be added by 
degrees. The rice should have just the right consistency — not too stiff and not too 
moist. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,710. RIZ A LA TURQUE (RICE, TURKISH STYLE). 



\ lb. rice. J pint tomato sauce (No. 77). ; salt. 

2 ozs. butter. 



fried croutons. 



1^ pints stock or water. | pepper. chopped parsley. 

Put the stock or water into a saucepan, add to it the tomato sauce, season with 
salt, and bring to the boil. Sprinkle in the rice, and cook until it is tender and has 
absorbed the Uquor ; then stir the butter into the rice by degrees, and let it stand 
by the side of the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve, stir the rios well, 
turn it on to a hot dish, and surround it with triangular-shaped fried croutons. 
Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the rice, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 505 



6 ozs. rice. I 2 ozs. butter. I 1| gills tomato sauce. 
1 onion. I H ozs. cheese. | 2 or 3 tomatoes. 



1,711. RIZ A LA TOMATE (RICE WITH TOMATO). 

salt, 
pepper. 

Wash the rice and dry it ; melt 1| ozs. of butter in a stewpan ; peel and slice the 
onion, put it into the butter, and fry it ■s^ithout browaiing ; then add the rice, put 
in the tomato sauce, and enough stock or water to cook the rice ; add the latter by 
degrees, as wanted. When the rice is tender, season it with salt and pepper, mix 
in the cheese, and stir over the fire for a few minutes longer. Slice the tomatoes, 
and fry them in the remaining | oz. of butter, season them with a httle salt and 
pepper. Dish the rice on a hot dish, garnish with the sliced tomatoes, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,712. RIZ A LA PIEMONTAISE (RICE, PIEDMONTESE STYLE). 



J lb. rice. 
1 onion. 



1 oz. butter. 
3 potatoes. 



salt. 
cayenne. 



1 oz. Parmesan 
cheese. 



4 ozs. rice 
2 onions. 



3 pints stock or 
water. 



Chop the onion finely, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, and fry it 
lightly for a few minutes without browning ; then add the rice, stir over the fire 
for a few minutes, then add by degrees a quart of stock or water. Wash the potatoes 
and bake them in the oven in their skins ; when they are done, take them up, let 
cool, then rub through a fine sieve. When the rice is cooked, add to it the potato 
pulp and the grated cheese, mix all well together, season with salt and a pinch of 
cayenne. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then pile up the rice on a hot dish, 
and serve for breakfast or supper. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,713. RIZ A LA BELGE (RICE, BELGIAN STYLE). 

2 ozs. butter. salt. 

IJ ozs. grated cheese. cayenne. 

Put the stock or water into a saucepan ; as soon as it boils, sprinkle in the rice, 
season with salt, and boil untU the rice is tender ; then strain, wash, and dry it in 
a cool oven. Melt half the butter in a stewpan, cut the onions in slices, and fry a 
golden brown. Into the remainder of the butter, melted in a saucepan, stir the 
rice, add the cheese and seasoning, mix well over the fire. Dish the rice in a pile 
in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the sliced and fried onions round, and serve for 
breakfast or supper. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,714. FRIED FLORADOR CAKES. 

2 ozs. florador. 1 pint milk. 1 egg. I salt. 

2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. breadcrumbs. pepper. 

BoU the milk with the butter, sprinkle in the florador, stir while boiling for 
ten minutes, season with salt and pepper, add the two yolks of eggs, and cook a 
little longer. Turn on to a buttered plate to cool. Divide the mixture into equal 
parts, shape each part into a round, flat cake ; beat up an egg on a plate, dip the 
cakes into it, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat a golden brown. Serve 
hot for breakfast or supper. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 cakes. 



506 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,715. CROQUETTES DE FLORADOR (FLORADOR CROQUETS). 



J lb. florador. 
1 pint milk. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. cheese. 



fried parsley, 
breadcrumbs. 



2 eggs. 
frying fat. 



Put the milk and butter into a stewpan together ; as soon as they come to the 
boil, sprinkle in the florador, place the pan on a slow fire, and simmer for about 
twenty minutes ; stir well every now and then (the last five or ten minutes the 
mixture should be stirred constantly). Season with salt and pepper. Cool a httle, 
then mix in the two yolks of eggs and the cheese, cook a little longer, then turn out 
on to a plate, spread it out, and let it get cold. Out out some shapes with a round 
or oval cutter, whip the two whites of eggs sHghtly on a plate, dip the croquettes 
into this, then toss them in breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat a golden brown 
colour ; drain them on kitchen-paper, dish on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable aU the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,716. TIMBALE DE FLORADOR A LA TOMATE (SHAPE OF 
FLORADOR WITH TOMATO). 



1 pint milk. 
6 ozs. florador. 
bay -leaf. 



3 tomatoes. 
1 oz. cheese. 
^ oz. butter. 



1 gill tomato puree. 
^ pint tomato sauce 
(No. 77). 



^ small onion, 
slice of carrot, 
piece of mace. 



2 eggs. 

salt. 

pepper. 



Peel the onion, put it into a stewpan with the mace, bay-leaf, and carrot ; add 
the milk, place the pan on the fire, and bring slowly to the boil. As soon as the 
milk comes to the boil, sprinkle in the florador, and stir well for a few minutes over 
the fire ; then add the butter, the grated cheese, and the gill of tomato puree. Stir 
over the fire for about ten minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper. Take off 
the fire, remove the onion, carrot, bay-leaf, and mace ; stir in the yolks of the eggs, 
beat the whites very stiffly, and add them to the mixture, stirring them in hghtly. 
Dip the tomatoes into boihng water, skin, and cut them into shces. Butter a 
timbale-mould, put in the mould a layer of the florador mixture, then a layer of 
tomato slices ; continue in this way until the mould is filled to three-quarters of 
its height. Cover with a buttered paper, put the mould into a baking-tin, containing 
a little boiling water, put the pan in the oven, and cook for thirty to forty minutes. 
When done, turn out the timbale on to a hot dish. Heat the sauce, pour it over 
the timbale, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,717. MACARONI A L'lTALIENNE. 



\ lb. macaroni* 
2 ozs. butter. 



IJ ozs. Parmesan cheese, salt. 
1^ ozs. Gruyere cheese. pepper. 

Boil the macaroni in a saucepan containing plenty of boiUng water, seasoned 
with salt ; the macaroni will take from thirty to forty-five minutes to cook, and the 
water should be kept fast boiling all the time that the macaroni is cooking. When 
done, drain it weU. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the macaroni, 
and mix it over the fire ; add the cheese, and season to taste ; stir until the cheese 
is melted. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and serve hot. 

N.B. — Macaroni, and all pastes of the same kind, should be cooked in fast 
boihng water, and be allowed to cook quickly until done. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 507 



1,718. MACARONI AU GRATIN. 



J lb. macaroni, 
breadcrumbs. 



1 gill Bechamel 
sauce. 



1 oz. cheese. salt. 

1 oz. butter. pepper. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water, drain, put it back into the saucepan, mix in 
the Bechamel sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir until hot and well 
mixed, then turn on to a dish ; sprinkle the cheese all over, also a few breadcrumbs ; 
break up the butter into small pieces, and put here and there on the top. Bake in a 
quick oven until brown. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 

1,719. MACARONI CHEESE. 

J lb. macaroni. J lb. Cheshire cheese. I salt. 

1^ ozs. butter. I breadcrumbs. | pepper. 

Boil the macaroni in salted boiling water, drain when done, turn it out on to a 
board, and cut it up into 2-inch lengths. Cut up the cheese finely. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan, and as soon as it is hot put in the macaroni, add the cheese, and stir 
until the cheese is melted ; season with salt and pepper, mix all together thoroughly. 
Turn the macaroni into a china fireproof dish or into a pie-dish, sprinkle over a 
few breadcrumbs, put a few bits of butter here and there, and place in a hot oven 
or under a salamander to brown the surface. Serve hot as soon as ready. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
3 persons. 

1,720. MACARONI A LA BOLOGNESE. 

J lb. macaroni. salt. 1 tablespoonful of I 2 tablespoonfuls of grated 



2 lbs. spinach. 



1 oz. butter. 



cream. I Parmesan cheese. 

Cook the macaroni in salted boiUng water for 45 minutes ; drain it, and wash 
thoroughly by running cold water over it. Cut it up into convenient-sized lengths. 
Pick and wash the spinach in several waters, in order to remove all the grit. Put it 
into a saucepan of boiling water, with a Httle salt, and cook until tender. Strain 
off the water, and press the spinach as dry as possible. Rub it through a fine 
wire sieve, put into a saucepan with the butter, cream, and pepper and salt. Butter 
a pie-dish, put in a Layer of macaroni, sprinkle with grated cheese, then a layer of 
spinach ; continue in this way until the dish is full, taking care that the last layer 
is macaroni and cheese. Place a few bits of butter on the top, and cook in a moderate 
oven for about twenty to thirty minutes. Take out, and serve in the pie-dish. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable, March to December. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,721. MACARONI AUX MARRONS (MACARONI WITH CHESTNUTS). 



J lb. macaroni. 6 large chestnuts. | salt. 

1 small onion. ~ 



2 ozs. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



1^ ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. I pepper. 

Boil the macaroni in salted boiling water until tender ; when done, drain and 
cut in 2-inch lengths. Slit the chestnuts, put them into the oven, and cook them 
until the outer shells and inner skin can be removed ; then put them into a stewpan, 
cover with milk and water, add the onion, and simmer until tender ; drain, and rub 
the chestnuts through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the macaroni, 
the chestnuts, salt and pepper ; mix thoroughly over the fire for ten minutes. 
Arrange the preparation on a hot dish, sprinkle the cheese and a few breadcrumbs 
over, place a few bits of butter on the top, and bake in a hot oven until brown. 
Take up and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, November to January, 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



i 



508 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 
1,722. MACARONI CROQUETTES. 



i lb. macaroni. I ^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). breadcrumbs. 

1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. fried parsley. 

1 whole egg. | cayenne pepper. salt. 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water for three-quarters of an hour. Take it 
up, drain well, and then chop into small pieces. Put it into a saucepan, with the 
Bechamel sauce, salt, and cayenne pepper ; stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, 
then mix in the grated cheese, and bind with the yolk of egg. Turn this mixture 
on to a plate, and put aside to cool. Divide into equal portions, and shape each 
into a round, flat cake. Bip these into breadcrumbs, in order to dry them ; then 
brush over with beaten egg, and toss again in breadcrumbs. Shape them again 
after breadcrumbing with a clean knife. Fry them in a pan of very hot fat until 
a golden brown colour. Take them up, drain on paper, and then arra,nge them 
in a pile on a hot dish. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley. This dish is suitable 
for lunch or breakfast. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 




Fig. 123, — Macaroni Croquettes. 



MACARONI A L'ESPAGNOLE. 



\ lb. macaroni, 
chopped parsley. 



1,723 

1 gill Madeira sauce 
(No. 50). 



^ gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Boil the macaroni until tender ; when done, drain it, and return to the stewpan. 
Add the Madeira and tomato sauces to it, stir in the grated cheese, season to taste 
with salt and pepper, mix all together thoroughly, and cook over the fire slowly 
for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Turn on to a hot dish, sprinkle over a Uttle 
chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

1,724. SPAGHETTI AU GRATIN. 



\ lb. spaghetti, 
salt and pepper. 



1^ gills Bechamel sauce (No. 4). breadcrumbs. 

2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. 1 oz. butter. 

Boil the spaghetti in salted boiling water for twenty minutes, then drain, put 
it into a stewpan, add the sauce to it, season with salt and pepper, add 1^ ozs. of 
grated cheese, stir over the fire until the ingredients are well mixed. Turn it into 



FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 509 

a dish, sprinkle the top with the remaining | oz. of cheese and a few breadcrumbs ; 
break up the butter into small pieces and put on the top, place the dish in the oven, 
and bake for about fifteen minutes, or until it is a nice golden colour. When done, 
remove it from the oven, shp the dish it was baked in on to another one, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufl&- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,725. BEIGNETS DE SPAGHETTI (SPAGHETTI FRITTERS). 

J lb. spaghetti. 1 oz. grated cheese. ^ oz. flour. 1 yolk of egg. 

I oz. butter. salt and ppeper. | gill milk. frjong batter. 

Break up the spaghetti into small pieces, drop it into a saucepan of boiling water, 
seasoned with salt ; boil for twenty minutes, until tender, drain, turn it on to a 
board or plate, and cut it up small. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
flour, add the milk, and boil until thick ; mix the spaghetti into this, season with 
salt and pepper ; stir in three parts of the cheese, cool a Uttle, then add the yolk of 
egg ; mix well, and turn out on to a plate to cool. When cold, divide the mixture 
into equal parts, shape each portion into the form of a cork. Prepare some frying- 
batter, dip each shape of spaghetti into the batter, drop them into very hot fat, 
and fry a golden brown ; drain the fritters on a piece of kitchen-paper, dish up on 
a hot dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, garnish the dish with fried parsley, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 beignets. 

1,726. SPAGHETTI A LA TOMATE (SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO). 

J lb. spaghetti. | 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. salt. 

1 oz. butter. | croutons of fried bread. 1 chopped parsley. pepper. 

Boil the spaghetti in salted boiling water for twenty minutes, then drain. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, and as soon as it is hot put in the spaghetti, and stir it 
until well mixed ; then add the tomato sauce and the cheese, season to taste with 
salt and pepper, stir over the fire until the cheese is melted, cook gently for a few 
minutes ; then turn on to a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, garnish the 
dish round with fried triangular croutons, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



1,727. NOUILLES AU GRATIN. 



1 oz. butter, 
breadcnim bs. 



J lb. flour. 3 yolks. I J pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

1 whole egg. salt. I 1 oz. grated cheese. 

Sieve the flour on to a paste-board, mix the salt with it, make a hole in the centre 
of the flour, break in the eggs, and work into a stiff paste with a Uttle water if 
necessary. Roll it out twice, and let it stand for one or two hours. Then cut the paste 
into strips, about 2 inches long and ^ inch wide. Have ready a saucepan of boiHng 
water, seasoned with salt, put in the strips, taking care to have them all separate, 
put the pan on the fire, and cook quickly for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then drain 
and let them cool. Butter a fireproof or gratin dish, pour over a Httle Bechamel 
sauce ; on this arrange a layer of nouilles, sprinkle them with grated cheese, and a httle 
melted butter, pour over some more sauce, and continue in this way until the 
nouilles are used up. Cover the last layer of nouilles with a thick coating of sauce, 
sprinkle with cheese, breadcrumbs, and melted butter. Bake in a hot oven for 
about ten minutes, or until nicely browned. Serve hot in the same dish that it 
was cooked in. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



510 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOR 



1,728. NOUILLES A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

J lb. nouilles. | 12 button mushrooms. | \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | salt. | pepper. 

Prepare the nouilles as in last recipe, cook and drain them. Slice the mush- 
rooms, add them to the nouilles in a stewpan, stir in the sauce, season to taste, 
stir until it boils ; then turn it on to a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, Is, Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,729. LENTILS AND TOMATOES AU GRATIN. 



\ lb. lentils. 
1 oz. butter. 



salt and pepper. 
h oz. grated cheese. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). I 1 onion, 
croutons of fried bread. 1 clove. 



Soak the lentils in cold water for a few hours, then drain them, and put into a 
saucepan of boihng water, with a little salt and an onion, stuck with one clove. 
Let this boil gently until the lentils are quite tender. Drain them, put them into 
a saucepan, and add enough tomato sauce to make it a nice consistency. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on to a fireproof dish, and sprinkle 
over with the grated cheese. Melt the butter and sprinkle over the surface. Place 
in a hot oven or under a salamander to brown the surface. Take it out, and garnish 
with three-cornered croutons of fried bread round the edge of the dish. Serve hot. 
This dish is suitable either for lunch or breakfast. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 3 or 4 hours. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,730. LENTIL CUTLETS (WITHOUT MEAT). 



1 lb. lentils. 

1 onion. 

1 oz. butter. 



1 teaspoonful of 
mixed herbs, 
breadcrumbs. 



parsley. 



pepper. 

salt. 



2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

Soak the lentils all night, boil until soft, drain them well, and then mash them. 
Peel and chop the onion, and fry a golden brown in 1 oz. of butter ; add the mashed 
lentils, the chopped parsley, herbs, pepper, and salt. Mix thoroughly over the fire ; 
beat the eggs in a basin, and stir into the lentil mixture. Turn out on to a plate 
to cool. Divide into equal portions, form each into the shape of cutlets, and then 
egg and breadcrumb them. Have ready a pan of boiUng hot fat, put the cutlets 
in a frying-basket, plunge it into the fat, and let them fry until a pale brown colour. 
Dish them up on a hot dish, on a dish-paper, and garnish them with fried parsley. 
If Hked, a sauce, such as brown. Bechamel, or parslev, may be served with these 
cutlets, separately. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, after lentils are cooked, 30 minutes. Season- 
able all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,731. LENTILS WITH RICE. 



\ lb. lentils. 
3 pints water. 



\ pint rice. 
1 onion. 



2 ozs. butter. I salt, 

croutons of bread. | pepper. 



Put the lentils to soak overnight ; when ready to cook, drain and put them in a 
saucepan with 3 pints of water, add a little salt, and simmer for two hours. Wash 
the rice, chop the onion, add these ingredients to the lentils ; after they have cooked 
for the two hours, stir in also the butter, broken up into small pieces ; boil all together 
slowly until the rice is tender ; add more water if necessary. When quite cooked, 
turn the lentils and rice on to a hot dish, surround the dish with fried croutons of 
bread, cut in three-cornered shapes. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 or 6 personb. 



FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 51 1 

1,732. LENTILS A LA MAlTRE D'HOTEL. 

I pint lentils. , bay -leaf. 1 dessertspoonful j 1 onion. I salt and pepper. 

? pints water. | 2 ozs. butter. chopped parsley.] 2 cloves. I J lemon. 

Soak the lentils all night ; when ready to cook, drain them, put them into a 
saucepan with the water, the onion stuck with two cloves, bay-leaf, and salt ; 
boil the lentils gently until tender, adding more water if necessary. When done, 
take away the onion and bay-leaf, and drain them well. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the lentils, stir them until they have absorbed the butter, add the 
parsley, lemon-juice, salt and pepper to taste ; cook over the fire for five or six 
minutes longer, stirring all the time. Turn the lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,733. CURRIED LENTILS. 



J pint lentils, j 2 ozs. butter. 1 dessertspoonful curry- 
3 onions. lemon-juice. 



croutons of fried bread, 
boiled rice. 



salt, 
pepper. 



powder. 

Soak the lentils all night, then boil them until tender ; drain well. Slice the 
onions, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onions, and fry them a golden 
colour ; stir in the curry-powder, and fry a little, then add the lentils, mix well 
together, add just enough water to moisten them sufficiently ; simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, season with salt and pepper and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Turn 
the lentils on to a hot dish, surround with triangular-shaped croiitons of fried bread, 
and serve mth boiled rice in a separate dish. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable at all times. Safficient 
for 3 persons. 

1,734. HARICOT FRITTERS. 

salt. 



^ pint cooked haricot beans. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. I 1 teaspoonful of chopped 
I gill breadcrumbs. ^ gill milk. 2 eggs. I parsley. 



pepper. 



Rub the cooked haricots through a fine wire sieve. Peel the onion, chop it 
finely, and fry in 1 oz. of butter until a golden bro^vn colour ; add the sieved haricots 
and h gill of fresh breadcrumbs ; season liighly with pepper and salt. Beat up one 
egg in a basin, add the milk to it, and then stir it into the haricot mixture, also the 
chopped parsley. Cook this over the fire until thoroughly hot, then turn out on 
to a plate to cool. Divide it into equal portions, and shape each into a round flat 
cake. Beat up the remaining egg on a plate, dip the cutlets in it, and then toss in 
breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling hot fat until a golden brown colour. Take them up, 
drain on paper to remove all grease, arrange them on a hot dish, on a dish-paper, 
and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,735. HARICOT-BEAN PIE. 



^ pint cooked haricot 2 large onions. I 2^ ozs. butter. | Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

beans. 1 lb. cooked potatoes. | pepper. I parsley sauce (No. 61). 



salt. 
milk. 



Rub half the potatoes through a fine wire sieve ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the sieved potato, season with pepper and salt, add a httle milk, and 
heat it thoroughly over the fire. Butter a pie-dish, and line the sides and bottom 
with the potato mixture. Peel and sHce the onions, fry them a golden brown in 
1 oz. of butter. Place a layer of cooked haricot beans in the pie-dish, then a layer 
of fried onions, season with pepper and salt, and cover with Bechamel sauce : 
repeat the layers of beans, onions, and sauce until the dish is full. Cut the rest of 
the cooked potatoes into slices, cover the top of the pie with these, place the re- 
maining I oz. of butter on the top in small pieces, place in the oven, and bake until 
brown. Serve in the pie-dish with parsley sauce separately. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

PT. vn, 33 



512 £HE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ lb. cold potatoes. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 
2 ozs. vermicelli. 



2 large onions. 
^ lb. tomatoes. 
1 oz. butter. 



1,736. VEGETABLE PIE. 

Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

1 tablespoon ful of chopped parsley. 

pepper and salt. 

Butter a pie-dish, and cover the bottom of it with slices of tomato. Peel and 
slice the onions, fry them a golden brown colour in 1 oz. of butter. Place a layer 
of slices of hard-boiled egg over the tomato, sprinkle with pepper and salt, parsley, 
and a Httle of the fried onion ; cover with Bechamel sauce. Cook the vermiceUi 
in boiling salted water for ten minutes, take it up, drain well, and then put a layer 
of it in the pie-dish. Continue with the layers of tomato, egg, onion, sauce, and 
vermicelU, until the dish is full. Cut the potatoes in sUces, cover the top of the pie 
with these, place a few pieces of butter on the top, and cook in the oven until 
brown. Take it up, and serve in the dish. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 46 minutes. Seasonable all the year, 
Sufificient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,737. FRIED HARICOT BEANS. 

1 pint cooked haricot I 2 ozs. dripping or butter. | pepper, 
beans. I pinch of sage. | salt. 

Put the dripping or butter into a stewpan, make it very hot, then add the 
beans to it, a pinch of powdered sage, pepper and salt to taste. Fry the beans, 
turning them about with a wooden spoon, until they are a golden brown colour. 
Strain them free from fat, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,738. HARICOT BEANS A LA BR^TONNE. 

1 pint haricot beans. 2 ozs. butter. J pint water. i salt, 



2 onions. 



1 oz. flour. 



chopped parsley. I pepper. 



Soak the haricot beans for twelve hours or longer, drain, and cook in boiling 
salted water until tender ; drain them in a cullender. Chop the onions finely, melt 
the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the onions, and fry them a hght colour ; 
then add the flour and the water, bring to the boil, season with salt and pepper, 
put in the beans, and stir over the fire for about ten minutes. Dish on a hot dish, 
sprinkle some chopped parsley over, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Yd. Time required, 2\ hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,739. FRICASSE DE POMMES DE TERRE (FRICASSE OF 

POTATOES). 



\ lb. cooked potatoes. 
1 yolk of egg. 



J pint Bechamel sauce chopped parsley 

1 oz. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



(No. 4). 

Cut the potatoes into rather thick slices, melt the butter in a frying-pan, put 
in the potatoes, and fry them lightly until warmed through, but do not let them 
brown. As soon as they are hot, arrange the shces on a dish in layers, sprinkhng 
each layer with salt and pepper. Warm up the Bechamel sauce, stir in the yolk of 
the egg, bind over the fire, but do not let it boil after the egg goes in. Pour a Httle 
of this sauce over each layer of potato, sprinkle a httle chopped parsley over the 
top, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



FARINACEOUS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES 



513 



1,740. CANNELON DE POMMES DE TERRE (POTATO ROLL). 



2 lbs. potatoes, 
yolks of 2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful white wine. 
h pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 



IJ ozs. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes in salted water until done ; drain, dry, and 
rub them through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a stewpan with the butter, 
previously melted, add the wine and the yolks of the eggs, season with salt and 
pepper ; mix all together thoroughly. Sprinkle a table or board with breadcrumbs, 
turn out the mixture on to it, shape it into a roll, cover well all over with bread- 
crumbs, place it on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a rather slow oven for about 
twenty minutes. When done, place it on a hot dish ; have the, sauce ready heated, 
and pour it round the roll. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, after potatoes are boiled, 30 minutes. Season- 
rtble at all times vSufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. — 124. Cannelon de Pommes de Teeeb. 



I A 



1,741. SCALLOPED POTATOES. 



1 lb. cooked potatoes. 
1 gill milk. 



2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 
1^ ozs. butter. 



pepper, 
salt. 



Mash the potatoes, add the milk, mix in 1 oz. of butter, which should be first 
melted, also 1 oz. of cheese ; season with salt and pepper. JMix all together 
thoroughly over the fire. Butter some scallop-shells or patty -pans, fill them with the 
potato, smooth the top of each, and mark them with a fork ; put them on a baking- 
tin, and place in the oven to brown. As soon as they are a fight brown, take them 
out of the oven, sprinkle over them the remaining ounce of cheese, put a small 
piece of butter on each, and return them to the oven to finish. Dish up, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 shells. 



33—2 



CHAPTER XXI 

BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 

1,742. SPAGHETTI A LA DIEUDONNE. 



J lb. spaghetti. 
2 ozs. butter. 



^ veal kidney. 



1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 tablespoonful meat-glaze, 
salt and pepper. 



1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
6 fresh mushrooms, 
chopped parsley. 

Boil the spaghetti in plenty of boihng salted water until tender ; this takes 
about twenty minutes ; drain well. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the 
spaghetti, and mix ; grate the cheese, and add it by degrees; season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and keep hot. Remove the skin from the kidney, cut it in shoes. 
Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the slices of kidney as soon 
as the butter is hot, and cook them over a quick fire. Cut the mushrooms in shces 
and add them to the kidney, cook together until done, then season with salt and 
pepper ; add the sauce to them, cook a few minutes longer, then stir in the meat- 
glaze. Dish the spaghetti as a border on a hot dish, dress the kidney mixture in 
the centre, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,743. SPAGHETTI A LA ROYALE. 



J lb. spaghetti. 
3 ozs. butter. 



1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
1 lb. fresh muslirooms. 



1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 50). 
chopped parsley. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Boil the spaghetti in salted boihng water for twenty minutes, drain well. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the spaghetti as soon as the butter is hot, mix 
together, season with salt and pepper ; grate the cheese, stir it into the spaghetti, 
and keep hot. Peel and wash the mushrooms, take off the stalks. Melt the 
remainder of the butter in a stewpan, put in the mushrooms, and saute them for 
a few minutes ; then add the sauce, salt, and pepper ; cook for ten minutes gently. 
Dish the spaghetti on a hot dish as a border, dress the mushrooms in the centre, 
sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,744. RAVIOLIS A L'lTALIENNE. 

2 ozs. grated cheese. 2 ozs. ham. 

h teaspoonful chopped parsley. salt. 
J pint tomato sauce (No. 77). pepper. 

Chop the chicken and ham finely, put this into a stewpan ; mix with the chopped 
parsley 1 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, one yolk of egg, salt and pepper ; stir in 
sufficient of the sauce to make a fairly stiff paste ; turn the mixture on to a plate. 
Sieve the flour, with a pinch of salt, on to a paste-board ; make a well in the centre 
of the flour, put into that the two yolks of eggs and sufficient water to make into a 
stiff paste ; knead this paste for fifteen minutes, then roU it out very thinly, and cut 
out some rounds with a round cutter, about 1| inches in diameter. On half the 
rounds put a teaspoonful of the prepared chicken mixture in the centre, wet round 
with a pastry-brush dipped in water, and place a round of paste on the top of each ; 

514 



* lb. fiour. 

3 yolks of eggs. 

J lb. chicken (cooked). 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 515 

join the edges well together. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water seasoned 
Avith salt, drop the prepared raviolis into it, bring quickly to the boil, then simmer 
for about twenty minutes. Lift them out carefully with a slice, and drain them 
on a sieve. Dress them on a hot dish in layers, putting between each layer some 
tomato sauce and a sprinkle of Parmesan cheese ; continue in this way until the 
raviohs are all used up. Cover the top with sauce, and sprinkle over it a few brown 
breadcrumbs ; put here and there a few bits of butter, place the dish in a hot oven 
for about ten minutes, and serve. This is a luncheon or supper dish. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable aU the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



2 ozs. spaghetti. 
i lb. cold meat. 



1,745. TIME ALE OF SPAGHETTL 

1 small onion. J oz. flour. 
^ oz. butter. | gill stock. 



tomato sauce 
(No. 77). 



salt. 
pepper. 

Cook the spaghetti in boiHng salted water for twenty minutes, taking care not 
to break the sticks, as they are required as long as possible. When tender, take it 
up and drain thoroughly. Well butter a dome-shaped mould, and then line with 
the cooked spaghetti, beginning at the bottom, and winding it round and round 
until the mould is covered. IVIince the cold meat finely, removing all fat and gristle. 
Chop the onion, and fry it a golden brown in | oz. of butter, mix in the flour, add 
the stock, and boil until thick. Put the meat into this mixture, season with pepper 
and salt, and stir over the fire until hot. Put this mixture into the prepared 
mould very carefully, so as not to disturb the spaghetti. Cover with a piece of 
buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, 
and pour tomato sauce round. Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,746. LENTIL RISSOLETTL 



^ lb. lentils. 
1 oz. butter, 
breadcrumbs. 



3 yolks of eggs. 
J lb. cold meat, 
parsley. 



salt, 
pepper. 
1 onion. 



1 tablespoonful Bechamel 

sauce (No. 4). 
brown sauce (No. 6). 

Soak the lentils for a few hours, then cook them in boiling salted water until 
tender. When cooked, strain off the water, return them to the saucepan, season 
highly with pepper and salt, add the sauce and three yolks of eggs. Stir this 
mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Turn out on to a 
plate, and allow it to cool. Mince the cold meat finely, peel and chop the onion, 
and fry it in the butter until a golden colour, add the minced meat and a little brown 
sauce, season with pepper and salt. When the lentil mixture is cold, divide it 
into equal portions, shape each into a ball, make a hollow in the centre, and fill 
with the mince ; cover the hole with some more lentil mixture. Egg and bread- 
crumb them carefully, let them set, and then egg and breadcrumb a second time. 
Have ready a pan of boiUng hot clarified fat, drop the balls into it, fry them a 
golden brown colour, take them up, drain on paper, and arrange on a hot dish. 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1-| hours after soaking the lentils. Season- 
able all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,747. MACARONI A LA GENEVOIS. 

1 lb. sausages. 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. salt. 

J lb. macaroni. I h pint white stock. pepper. 

Cook the sausages in boiling water or stock, strain them, and put aside to cool. 
Cook the macaroni in boihng salted water for three-quarters of an hour, take it up, 
strain, and rinse in cold water. Cut it up into convenient-sized lengths, and place 
a layer of it at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish. Cut the sausages in slices, 
removing the skin ; put a layer of these over the macaroni, sprinkle with grated 



516 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Parmesan cheese, pepper, and salt. Continue the layers of macaroni, sausage and 
cheese until the dish is full ; then pour in \ pint of white stock, cover with a piece of 
buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven for about thirty to forty minutes. 
Take it out, place the pie-dish on another dish, and send to table as hot as possible. 

N.B. — Cooked sausages which have been left over from another meal may be 
nsed for this dish in place of the fresh ones. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,748. QUENELLES DE ROGNONS AUX POMMES DE TERRE 
(QUENELLES OF KIDNEYS WITH POTATOES). 



3 sheep kidneys. 
1 shallot, 
i oz. buttor. 



J gill brown sauce (No. 6). 
h lb. veal forcemeat (No. 201). 
^ pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 



salt, 
pepper. 
3 potatoes. 



Skin the kidneys, take out the hard part, and slice them finely. Peel the 
shallot, chop it, melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, and fry a littic, 
then add the Iddneys and toss them over a quick fire for a few minutes, moisten 




Fig. 125. — Quenelles de Kognons aux Pommes db Terre. 



with the Espagnole sauce, add salt and pepper to taste, cook a little longer. Pre- 
pare the chicken forcemeat. Butter eight quenelle-moulds, line them with tiio 
forcemeat, fill the centre of each with the stewed kidney, and cover with the force- 
meat. Put them on a baking-tin, pour a fittle boihng water round them, and cook 
in the oven for about ten minutes. Peel the potatoes, cut them in thin slices, 
then into fine strips the size of matches ; put them into a basin of water as they are 
cut, in order to prevent them discolouring. When ready to use, drain and dry 
them well in a cloth. Put these strips into a wire border-mould, arrange them 
loosely, place thy fid over, fasten it on with the skewer, plunge into very hot fat, 
and let it remain in it for about three minutes ; then take it out. Let the fat get 
very hot again, and then place the basket in a second time to brown the potatoes. 
Lift it out of the fat, drain, take off the fid, turn out the potato border on to a hot 
dish, sprinkle a httle salt over it. Arrange the quenelles in the centre, pour the 
tomato sauce round, and serve very hot for luncheon or supper. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 517 

1,749. MACARONI AUX ROGNONS (MACARONI WITH KIDNEYS). 

J lb. macaroni. I 6 sheep kidneys. parsley. 

2k ozs. butter. | 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. salt. 

Cook the macaroni in salted boiling water for forty-five minutes. Take it up 
and drain well. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, put in the macaroni cut in 
neat pieces, the grated cheese, and a little pepper and salt. Stir over the fire until 
thoroughly hot. Skin the kidneys, cut through the centre of each without quite 
separating them, and remove the muscle. Melt the remaining butter in a frying- 
pan, put in the kidneys, and fry over a quick fire until done. Kidneys must always 
be fried quickly, or they will be hard. Have ready a hot dish, arrange the prepared 
macaroni on this in the form of a border, fill the centre Avith the cooked kidneys, 
and garnish with a little chopped parsley. Serve very hot. This dish is suitable 
for breakfast or lunch. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,750. MACARONI AUX HUITRES. 
J lb. macaroni. 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). cayenne. I salt 



2 ozs. butter. 



8 oysters. | pepper. 



1| ozs. grated cheese. 

Break up the macaroni, put it into a saucepan containing 1 quart of boihng 
water, season with salt, and boil for about forty minutes until the macaroni is 
tender, but it must not get pulpy ; drain well. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the macaroni, add the tomato sauce and the cheese, stir until all is well 
mixed, then season nicely with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Fry the oysters in the 
remaining 1 oz. of butter, after first blanching them, then mix into the macaroni 
preparation. Turn this into a dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a 
quick oven until brown. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to April, 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,751. FOIES DE VOLAILLE ET ROGNONS A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED 

CHICKEN LIVERS AND KIDNEYS). 



2 sheep kidneys. 
4 chicken livers. 



fried potatoes 



streaky bacon. | breadcrumbs. 

2 ozs. butter. I sauce diable (No. 31). mashed potato. 

Skin the kidneys, cut them in halves, remove the muscle, and then spUt each 
half in half again lengthways. Wash the chicken livers, divide each in half. 
Cut the bacon into thin sHces, and then into pieces the same size as the kidney. 
Melt the butter, and dip each piece of liver, kidney, and bacon into it, then into 
breadcrumbs. Thread these shces on a skewer alternately, having a sUce of bacon 
between each piece. Place these over a clear fire, and grill until done, taking care 
to keep them turned, so that they cook evenly. Make a border of mashed potato 
on a hot dish, arrange the kidney, etc., on it, removing the skewers, but keeping the 
meat in the same position. Fill the centre with fried potatoes, and pour the 
devilled sauce round. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d, Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,752. STEWED KIDNEYS AND MUSHROOMS. 

6 sheep kidneys, or 8 mushrooms. 1^ ozs. butter. croutons of fried bread. 

^ lb. ox kidney. 1 small onion. parsley. 1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

Take the skin from the kidneys, remove the muscle, and then cut in sHces. 
Peel and chop the onion, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion and kidney, 
fry quickly for a few minutes ; then add the mushrooms, peeled and sliced. Stir 
over the fire until the ingredients are cooked, then moisten with brown sauce, and 



518 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

simmer gently for five minutes. Turii it out on to a hot dish, garnish round with 
three-cornered shaped croutons of fried bread, sprinkle a Uttle chopped parsley 
in the centre, and serve hot. Serve as a breakfast or lunch dish. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,753. ROGNONS A LA MAlTRE D'HOTEL (KIDNEYS WITH MAlTRE 

D'HOTEL BUTTER). 

4 sheep kidneys. 1 oz. maitre d'hotel butter (No. 18(7). 

4 round croutes of fried bread. 1 oz. butter. 

Skin the kidneys, spHt them without quite separating them, and remove the 
muscle. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the kidneys, and fry over a quick 
fire for five minutes. Have ready four round croutes of fried bread, place them on 
a hot dish, and put a kidney on each, with a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on the top. 
Send to table immediately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



1,754. GRILLED KIDNEYS AND BACON. 



8 thin slices of 
bacon. 



salt. 

J oz. butter. 



5 kidneys. 6 oval-shaped croutes of fried bread, 

cayenne pepper. 2 ozs. maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). 

Split the kidneys without quite separating them, remove the skin and fat, run 
a skewer through the backs of the kidneys to keep them flat. Season them with 
salt and cayenne, sprinkle with oiled butter. Grill them over a clear, brisk fire 
for about seven minutes. Roll the bacon and place on a skewer, grill this also 
over the fire or bake in the oven. Remove the kidneys from the skewer, dish one 
on each croute of fried bread. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the 
bacon in the centre, place a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on each kidney, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,755. ROGNONS A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED KIDNEYS). 

3 kidneys. | devilled butter (No. 176). | 3 oval croutes of fried bread. 1 1 oz. butter. 

Skin the kidneys, spht them without quite separating, remove the muscle, 
and run a skewer through the backs of the kidneys in order to keep them flat. 
Melt 1 oz. of butter, and sprinkle it over the kidneys ; grill them over a clear fire 
for about seven minutes. Take them up, remove from the skewer, and dish each 
kidney on a croute of fried bread. Place a pat of devilled butter on each, and send 
to table quickly. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,756. ROGNONS A LA TURQUE. 



\ lb. short paste. 3 new-laid eggs 



6 mutton kidneys. 



3 or 4 tomatoes. 



1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 



3 ozs. butter. 

chopped parsley. salt and pepper. 

Roll out the short pastry, and line a flan ring with it ; ornament the edge, 
line it with a piece of white paper, fill with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven 
a pale golden colour. When done, take it out and let it get cold ; take out the rice 
carefully. Skin the kidneys and take out the hard part, slice them finely ; melt 
1 oz. of butter in a frying-pan, put in the shced kidneys, and cook quickly for two 
minutes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and add to them the Espagnole sauce ; 
mix all well together, cook a few minutes longer ; turn this mixture into the pastry 
case. Melt 1 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan ; as soon as it is hot, break in the eggs, 
stir them over the fire in order to scramble them, season with salt and pepper, and 



\. 





cr 

H 

j3 
-«j 

(/I 

c 
o 

c 

DO 

o 

DC 

-o 

c 

LL. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 519 

put them on the kidney round the edge of the pastry case, so as to form a border. 
Scald the tomatoes, peel them carefully, cut in sUces, and saute them in butter ; 
pile these in the centre of the border on the kidneys, garnish mth a little chopped 
parsley, and serve at once (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,757. ROGNONS AUX TOMATES ET RIZ (KIDNEYS WITH TOMATOES 

AND RICE). 



6 ozs. vice. 
6 tomatoes. 



6 sheep kidneys. 



3 ozs. butter, j l""onion 
H pints stock. parsley. I salt and pepper. 

Put the stock into a large saucepan, bring it to the boil, then sprinkle in the 
rice, and cook until tender ; the onion should be skinned and cooked with the rice. 
As soon as the rice swells and thickens it must be constantly stirred to prevent it 
burning ; by the time it is done it should have absorbed the stock. Add a httle 
more stock if necessary. When the rice is done, take out the onion, and add 1^ ozs. 
of butter in small pieces, season with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire for a few 
minutes longer. Cook the kidneys in 1 oz. of butter ; they should first be skinned, 
cut in halves, and the hard part removed. Cut two tomatoes in slices, and the 
remainder in quarters. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and cook in the 
oven, taking care not to let them get too soft. When ready to serve, turn out the 
rice border on to a dish, fill the centre with the quartered tomatoes, and dress the 
kidneys and sliced tomatoes alternately round the top of the border. Garnish the 
dish Avith a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve very hot (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



6 sheep kidneys. 
3 tomatoes. 



1,758. ROGNONS AUX TOMATES (KIDNEYS WITH TOMATOES). 

1 oz. maitre d'hotel butter I 2 ozs. butter. I salt. 
(No. 180). ' parsley. ' pepper. 

Skin the kidneys, cut them open, but do not quite divide the two halves, take 
out the hard part, season with salt and pepper. Put I| ozs. of butter in a saute- 
pan, make very hot, then put in the kidneys, and fry for a few minutes ; they must 
cook quickly or they will be hard. Cut the tomatoes in halves, sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper, put them on a buttered tin, with a little bit of butter on each, and 
bake in the oven for about ten minutes. Do not let them get too soft. Dish the 
tomatoes in a circle on a hot dish, place one kidney on each tomato, put a piece of 
maitre d'hotel butter on each, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot 
for breakfast. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,759. ROGNONS AUX POMMES DE TERRE (KIDNEYS WITH 

POTATOES). 



3 sheep kidneys. 

4 potatoes. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 shallot. 



breadcrumbs. I salt. 

1 teaspoonful parsley. | pepper. 



Skin the kidneys, sHce them finely, take away the hard part. Peel the potatoes, 
wash them, then cut in large dice ; chop the shallot and the parsley finely. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped shallot, fry a little, then add the sUced 
kidneys, cook quickly for one minute ; then stir in the potatoes, mix well together, 
turn all into a buttered fireproof dish, sprinkle over a few breadcrumbs, and put 
in a slow oven for about forty minutes. Send to table in the same dish in which it 
was baked. Suitable for breakfast or lunch. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



520 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,760. POMMES DE TERRE A LA RICHELIEU (POTATOES, 

RICHELIEU STYLE). 

\ lb. game. i lb. potatoes. [ h teaspoonful parsley. ] 1 whole egg. 

3 ozs. butter. 2 yolks of egg. I g pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | salt and pepper. 

Cut the game up into small pieces (chicken or any kind of cooked meat will do 
instead of game), mash the cooked potatoes, put these ingredients into a mortar, 
add li ozs. of butter, pound well together, season with salt, pepper, and the 
chopped parsley ; bind the mixture with the yolks of the eggs. Divide this 
preparation into equal portions, roll in a little flour, make each portion into the 
shape of a cork, poach them in boiling water, then drain and let cool. Melt the 
remaining H ozs. of butter, pour it on to a plate, beat up the egg, dip each roll into 
egg, then into the melted butter, and grill or fry them a nice brown on all sides. 
Dish up, and serve with Espagnole sauce separately. 

Average cost, exclusive of game or meat, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes 
Seasonable, August to February if game is used, otherwise all the year. Sufficient 
for 10 rolls. 

1,761. BACON AND MACARONI. 

4 ozs. macaroni. | \ lb. bacon. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. 

Boil the macaroni in salted boiling water for about forty minutes ; it must be 
tender, but not pulpy. When cooked sufficiently, drain it thoroughly. Melt the 
butter in a stewpan, put in the macaroni, and stir it over the fire until quite hot ; 
season it nicely with salt and pepper. Cut the bacon into nice slices, roll each slice 
up, and put them on a skewer ; place the skewer with the bacon on a baking-tin, 
and put in the oven. When the bacon is cooked, turn out the macaroni on to a hot 
dish, arrange the rolls of bacon round it, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,762. MACARONI AND HAM. 

4 ozs. macaroni. 2 ozs. butter. 

4 ozs. cooked ham. chopped parsley. 

Boil the macaroni in salted boihng water ; when it is tender, drain it well. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot, put in the macaroni, which should be first 
divided into small pieces. Cut the ham into fine strips, mix it with the macaroni, 
season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn on to a hot dish, sprinkle over a httle 
chopped parsley, and surround the dish with fried croutes of bread cut in triangular 
shapes. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 50 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,763. CEUFS SUR LE PLAT (EGGS ON THE PLATE). 

4 eggs. I 1 oz. butter. | salt. | pepper. 

Butter Lightly a small dish on which the eggs are to be served, break the eggs on 
this, taking care not to break the yolks, season with a little salt and pepper, and 
put a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Place the dish in the oven for a few 
minutes, until the whites become set, but they must not be allowed to get hard. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,764. TO POACH AN EGG. 

1 egg. I 1 pint of water. | salt. | lemon -juice. | buttered toast. 
Put the water into a saute-pan, bring it to the boil, add the salt and about one 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Break the egg carefully into a cup, slide it gently 
mto the boiUng water, cook for a few minutes, basting it meanwhile with the boihng 



croutons of fried 
bread. 



salt. 
pepper. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 521 

water. When done, lift it up carefully with a slice, trim it neatly, and serve it on 
a sUce of hot buttered toast. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, a few minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 1 person. 

1,765. FRIED BACON. 

Cut as many thin slices of bacon as are required, and remove the rind. Put 
the frying-pan over the fire for a few seconds to heat, then put in the slices of 
bacon. Cook these over the fire until one side is done, and then turn and cook the 
other. Dish on a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Time required to fry, a few minutes. 
Seasonable all the year, 

1.766. ROLLED BACON. 

Cut as many thin slices of bacon as are required, and remove the rind. Roll 
each slice up, and run a skewer through them. Place on a baking-tin, and cook 
in the oven for five to ten minutes. Take them up, remove the skewer, and dress 
on a hot dish. Bacon prepared in this way is often used as a garnish for other 
dishes. 

Average cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Time required, 5 to 10 minutes. Season- 
able all the year. 

1.767. GRILLED BACON. 

Cut some thin slices of bacon, remove the rind, roll them up, and run a skewer 
through them. Place over a clear fire, and grill for a few minutes. Remove the 
skewer, and serve very hot. 

1,768. PORRIDGE. 

1 teacupful coarse oatmeal. | 1 pint water. | J teaspoonful salt. 

Put the water into a saucepan, place it on the fire, and bring to the boil, put in 
the salt, sprinkle the oatmeal into the boiling water ; stir while sprinkling in the 
oatmeal. Boil for half an hour. Serve for breakfast. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 



1 teaspoonful Worcester I cayenne, 
sauce. slice of toast. 



1.769. DEVILLED TOAST. 

^ oz. butter. 

f teaspoonful made mustard. 

Put the butter into a basin, cream it with a wooden spoon until soft, but not 
oiled, add to it by degrees the mustard, sauce, and a pinch of cayenne. Toast a 
shce of bread, cut off the crust, spread over the above mixture, cut into fingers, 
and serve very hot for breakfast. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 

1.770. SAVOURY TOAST. 

^ oz. butter. . 1 dessertspoonful Harvey sauce. yolk of 1 egg, I cayenne. 

1 dessertspoonful milk. | J tabiespoonful cooked chicken. salt. | diy toast. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the milk, Harvey sauce and the beaten yolk 
of egg, mix well, then stir in the finely-minced cooked chicken, season with salt and 
a pinch of cayenne ; cook over the fire until a smooth paste. Have ready some dry 
toast, cut it into squares or fingers, spread the mixture evenly over them, put in 
the oven for a few minutes, then serve at once very hot. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 



522 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



\ lb. pork sausages, 
parsley. 



1,771. SAUCISSES A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED SAUSAGES). 

lemon. cayenne. 

devilled butter (No. 176). croutes of fried bread. 

Cook the sausages in boiling water for fifteen minutes. Cut some slices of bread, 
\ inch thick, cut these again into fingers about 3 inches in length and 1 inch broad. 
Fry the croutes in very hot fat until a golden colour ; take them up, drain well, and 
spread each with a layer of devilled butter. Skin the sausages, cut each in half 
lengthways, and then each half in two pieces ; lay one of these on each croute, 
sprinkle with a very little cayenne on each, and place in the oven for a few 
minutes to heat through. Take them up, arrange on a hot dish, and garnish 
with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Serve very hot for breakfast ot- 
lunch. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



^ lb. sausages. 
i lb. bacon. 



1,772. FRIED SAUSAGE AND BACON. 

croutes of fried ^ oz. butter, 

bread. fried parsley. 

Skin the sausages, divide into six equal portions, shape each into a round flat 
cake, toss them in a little flour. Cut the bacon into very thin slices, wrap one round 
each sausage cake, fasten with small skewers to prevent the bacon coming off. 
Melt the butter in a frying-pan, put in the bacon and sausage, and fry over a 
moderate fire until thoroughly done. Cut the croutes of bread the same size as 
the cakes, fry them in hot fat until a golden colour, place them on a hot dish, on 
a dish-paper, arrange the bacon and sausage cakes on the top of each, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,773. SAUSAGES IN BATTER. 

\ lb. pork sausages. 1 tablespoonful of salad 2 eggs 



2 ozs. flour. 



1 tablespoonful of milk. 



oil. 

Cook the sausages in boiling water for ten minutes, take them up, skin them, 
cut in quarters, and put aside to cool. Sieve the flour into a basin, beat in the 
yolks of the eggs, oil, and milk ; lastly, just before frjdng, stir in the whipped whites 
of eggs. Have ready a pan of very hot fat, dip each piece of sausage into the 
batter, then drop it into the fat, and fry a golden colour. Take up, drain, and dish 
in a pile on a hot dish on a dish-paper. Garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



1,774. BLOATERS A LA SEFTON. 

3 bloaters. 4 ozs. Parmesan 

breadcrumbs. cheese. 



pepper, 
legg. 



parsley, 
lemon. 



Fillet the bloaters, skin, and remove all bones. Cut up the fillets, put them 
into a mortar, and pound well. Grate the cheese, and mix it into the bloater, 
season with pepper, pound it until the mixture forms a paste. Divide into equal 
portions, and roll each portion into a round stick about 3 inches long and | inch 
thick. Beat up an egg on a plate, dip in the sticks, then roll in breadcrumbs, and 
fry in hot fat. Dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley and thin shces of 
lemon. These are delicious for breakfast. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 



523 



1,775. PICKLED BLOATERS. 

6 bloaters. 18 pepper- j bay-leaf. 2 cloves. oil. 

milk. corns. | 1 onion. ^ lemon. vinegar. 

Wash and clean the bloaters, dry in a cloth, place them in a basin, and 
cover Math milk ; let them remain in it for twelve hours ; then drain, put 
them into a pie-dish, add the peppercorns, cloves, the onion and lemon cut in 
slices, and the bay-leaf. Cover them with oil and vinegar in equal quantities. 
Put a piece of buttered paper over the top, and bake in the oven until the fish is 
cooked. Let the bloaters get cold in the dish, then serve for breakfast. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes after soaking. Seasonable all 
the year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,776. BEIGNETS DE HARENG FUME (BLOATER FRITTERS). 

2 bloaters. 
2 ozs. flour. 



fried parsley, 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



2 eggs. I 1^ tablespoonfuls milk, 

salt and pepper. 1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

Fillet the bloaters and skin them, cut each fillet into three or four pieces. Sieve 
the flour into a basin, mix the oil and milk together, separate the yolks and whites 
of the eggs, put the yolks into the flour, mix together, add the milk and oil by degrees 
so as to obtain a smooth paste, heat well for ten minutes. Whisk the whites of 
the eggs very stiffly, and just before frying stir them into the batter Ughtly. Heat 
the frying-fat in a stewpan, put the pieces of bloater into the batter, and when the 
fat is smoking hot hft each piece of fish -wdth an iron spoon, see that it is well 
covered with batter, drop it into the fat, and fry a golden bro^\^l. Lift out of the 
fat when done, drain on paper, dress on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 
Serve for breakfast or supper. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,777. CROQUETTES EN SURPRISE. 

1 tablespoonful cream. 
^ pint Hollandaise sauce 
(No. 101). 

Boil the potatoes, let them get cold, then pass them through a fine sieve. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the potato, mix well ; add the two yolks, season 
with salt and pepper ; stir all well together until thoroughly mixed, turn on to a 
plate, and let cool. SpUt the lobster down the back, take out the meat, chop it 
finely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the water, and 
boil until it is thick and leaves the sides of the saucepan clean ; now add to this 
panada the chopped lobster and the cream, season with salt and a pinch of cayenne. 
Turn this out on to a plate to cool. As soon as the lobster mixture is cold, divide 
it into about twelve parts ; make each portion into a round ball, completely cover 
each of these balls with some of the potato mixture, so that the lobster is in the centre 
of the potato ; continue until all the lobster balls are used up. Beat the egg on a 
plate, dip the croquettes into it, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat a 
golden brown. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Send the Hollandaise 



1 lb. potatoes. 


1 lobster. 


cayenne. 


fried parsley. 


2 yolks eggs. 


^ oz. flour. 


salt. 


1 egg. 


2 ozs. butter. 


1 gill water. 


pepper. 


breadcrumbs. 



sauce to table separately. 
Average cost, 3s. 3d. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to October. 



J lb. cooked meat, 
stock. 



brown sauce (No. 6). 
brown breadcrumbs. 



pepper, 
salt. 



1,778. BEEF TRIFLES. 

2 tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish. 
J lb. breadcrumbs. 

Mince the meat finely, put it into a basin, add the breadcrumbs and pepper 
and salt. Grate the horseradish, and mix into the meat preparation. Moisten 
with enough stock to make it a nice consistency — not too soft. Well butter some 



i 



524 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

small dariole-moulds, sprinkle them with brown breadcrumbs, and then fill with the 
beef and breadcrumb mixture. Place in a moderate oven and bake until firm. 
Turn them out on a hot dish, and pour a httle brown sauce round. Serve more 
brown sauce in a tureen separately. 

Average cost, 4d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. In season 
all the year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,779. RIS DE VEAU AUX HUITRES (SWEETBREAD WITH OYSTERS). 

1 yolk of egg. 



1 large sweetbread. 
1 blade of mace. 
6 peppercorns. 



2 carrots. 
2 onions. 
1 turnip. 



h pint stock. 
2 cloves. 
1 chilli. 



\ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
squeeze of lemon-juice, 
croute of fried bread. 



9 oysters, 
pepper and salt. 



Soak the sweetbread in cold water for an hour, then put it into a saucepan of 
cold water, and bring to the boil. Take it up, and press until cold ; remove all fat 
and gristle. Clean the vegetables, place them in a saucepan with the spices and 
stock, lay the sweetbread on the top, cover with buttered paper and the Ud of 
tlie pan, and braise gently for thirty minutes. Beard the oysters, place them in a 
saucepan with their Uquor, and bring slowly to boiUng-point (they must not on any 
account be allowed to boil). Heat the Bechamel sauce, add to it the oyster hquor, 
reduce well, mix in the yolks of egg, oysters cut in quarters, salt, and a squeeze of 
lemon-juice. Stir until the egg binds, but do not allow it to boil. Have ready a 
croute of fried bread, the same size as the sweetbread, place it on a hot dish, lay the 
sweetbread on it, and pour the oyster sauce over. Garnish with a httle chopped 
parsley, and serve hot. This dish is suitable for lunch. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



J lb. macaroni. 
J lb. cooked rabbit-meat, 
or anv whit© meat. 



1 yolk of egg. 

tomato sauce (No. 77). 

salt and pepper. 



1,780. TIMBALES A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

2 ozs. cooked ham. 

\ oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 

I gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Cook the macaroni in boihng salted water for three-quarters of an hour. Take 
it up, drain, and put aside to cool. Butter some small timbale-moulds, and cover 
all over with pieces of macaroni cut in ^ inch lengths. Put them aside in a cool 
place to get perfectly set. Mince the ham and rabbit finely, put it into a saucepan 
with the Bechamel sauce, cheese, and pepper and salt. Stir over the fire until hot, 
then bind with the yolk of an egg. Fill this mixture carefully into the prepared 
moulds, smooth over the top with a knife, place them in a deep tin with a httle 
water at the bottom, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen 
minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour tomato sauce round the moulds, and 
serve hot. This dish can be made in one large tin instead of the small ones. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,781. MACARONI CAKES. 

breadcrumbs. 



4 ozs. macaroni. 
1 oz. butter. 

legg. 



fried parsley, 
pepper and salt. 



IJ ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. 

2 ozs. cooked meat. 

\ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Cook the macaroni in boihng salted water for three-quarters of an hour. Drain 
it, and then chop into fine pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the macaroni, 
the meat minced, salt, pepper, and grated cheese. Stir over the fire, and add the 
Bechamel sauce and yolk of egg. Turn out on to a plate, and put aside to cool. 
Divide it into equal portions, shape each into round, flat cakes, egg and breadcrumb 
them, and fry in very hot fat untU a golden brown. Arrange them on a dish-paper 
placed on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 



525 



1,782. DARIOLETTES DE RIS DE VEAU. 



1 calf's sweetbread. 
3 large mushrooms. 
3 yolks of eggs. 



Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 dessertspoonful of salad 
oil. 



4 ozs. flour. 
1 white of egg. 
fried parsley. 



£ gill milk. 
2 onions. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 carrot. 

salt. 
stock. 



Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one hour, then place it in a stewpan with 
sufficient cold water to cover it. Bring quickly to the boil, then drain and, when 
cool, remove all fat and sinews. Cut the onion and carrot into slices, melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the vegetables and a little stock ; lay the sweetbread on this, 
cover with buttered paper, and braise for twenty to thirty -minutes. When cooked, 
take up the sweetbread and cut into dice. Peel the mushrooms, and cook in a little 
butter ; cut these also into dice. Put the sweetbread and mushrooms into a 
saucepan, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a little Bechamel sauce. 
Keep hot until required. Sieve the flour into a basin, stir in the eggs, oil, and milk 
by degrees ; beat well. Have ready a pan of hot fat, dip a dariole fryer into it, 
and then into the batter so as to completely cover the outside of the mould. Put 
it immediately into the hot fat, and fry a golden brown colour. Remove the case 




Fig. 126. — Dakiolettks db Ris de Veau. 

carefully, and repeat this operation until the batter is all used. Fill each case with 
the sweetbread mixture, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on each. Arrange th&m 
on a dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,783. CASSOLETTES D'ECREVISSES (CASSOLETTES OF PRAWNS). 

2^ ozs. flour. 1 white of egg. 12 prawns. 

1 gill milk. 1 dessertspoonful of salad oil. cayerme pepper. 

2 whole eggs. 1 tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese. ^ oz. butter. 

Sieve 2 ozs. flour into a basin, mix in by degrees | giU milk, one whole egg, the salad- 
oil, and a pinch of salt. Beat this mixture thoroughly. Have ready a pan of very 
hot fat, dip a small dariole fryer into it, and then into the prepared batter, covering 
the outside of the fryer with it. Plunge this into the hot fat, and fry until a golden 
colour. Take it out of the fat, and remove the batter case very carefully from the 
fryer. Continue in this way until the batter is used. Melt | oz. butter in a sauce- 
pan, mix in ^ oz. flour, moisten -with i gill milk, and stir over the fire until the mixture 
is very thick ; remove from the fire, and beat in one yolk of egg. Shell the prawns. 



526 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

and chop rather coarsely, add them to the above mixture, also the grated cheese, 
salt, and cayenne. Whisk two whites of egg very stiffly, and stir Ughtly into the 
prawn mixture. Fill the batter cases with this preparation, and bake for about 
ten to fifteen minutes. Dish on a hot dish on a dish-paper, and serve im- 
mediately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,784. AMERICAN RAREBIT. 

i lb. Cheshire cheese. | buttered toast. | \ gill ale. | streaky bacon. | salt. 

Make the buttered toast, and put it to keep hot. Remove the rind from some 
thin slices of bacon, roll them up, and place them on a skewer. Bake these in the 
oven for a few minutes until done. Cut up the cheese, put it into a saucepan with a 
Uttle pepper and salt and the ale, stir over the fire until the cheese is melted. Pour 
this over the buttered toast, cut it into convenient sized pieces, and lay a roll of 
bacon on each. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,785. GOLDEN BUCK. 

J lb. Cheshire cheese. | \ gill ale. | salt. | buttered toast. | 4 poached eggs. [ pepper. 

Make four pieces of buttered toast, and put them to keep hot. Poach four 
eggs, and trim them neatly. Put the chopped cheese, ale, and pepper and salt into 
a saucepan, stir over the fire until melted. Pour on to the buttered toast, and place 
a poached egg on each. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,786. WELSH RAREBIT. 
4 ozs. Cheshire cheese. | 1 oz. butter. | \ mustardspoonful made mustard. [ cayenne. | toast. 

Cut up the cheese in small pieces, melt the butter in a stewpan ; when hot put 
in the cheese, mustard, and cayenne ; stir it over the fire with a wooden spoor 
until the cheese melts. Make some toast, cut it into four pieces, butter them, 
pour the cheese mixture over, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,787. PULLED BREAD. 

Take a new loaf, pull out the crumb, and by pulling it lightly and quickly with 
the fingers of both hands, divide it into rough-looking pieces. Place these pieces 
on a baking-sheet, and bake them a fight brown colour. These pieces of bread 
should be quite crisp. Pulled bread is served with butter and cheese for lunch or 
■jupper. 

1,788. POTTED BEEF. 

2 lbs. lean beef. | 2 ozs. butter. | 2 cloves. | 2 allspice. | salt. [ pepper. | clarified butter 
Put the butter into a stone jar large enough to hold the meat. Cut the meat 
in small pieces, place it into the jar with the butter, put the spice into a piece of 
musfin, and tie them up. Put these also into the jar. Put the cover on the jar, 
or tie a piece of brown paper over ; place in the oven for two hours. Take out the 
spices, and pound the meat in a mortar, and then rub it through a wire sieve. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Put into pots and pour over the top of each some 
liquid clarified butter. This will keep for a week. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 527 

1,789. POTTED BLOATERS. 

4 bloaters. ] 12 peppercorns. | 4 allspice. | 2 ozs. butter. | cayenne. | salt. | clarified butter. 

Fillet the bloaters, skin them, remove all bone, and cut into pieces. Melt | oz. 
of butter in a stewpan, put in the fish, add the spices, and cook over the fire until 
the fish is done ; then turn it into a mortar, pound it well, add the remaining 1^ ozs. 
of butter, season to taste with salt and cayenne. Put this into pots, pour liquid 
clarified butter over, and keep for use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. 

1,790. COLCANNON. 

1 lb. cold potatoes. I 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls cooked cabbage. I salt. 

2 ozs. butter. | J lb. rashers of baoon. | pepper. 

Mash the cooked potatoes finely ; chop the cabbage (any kind of greens left over 
from a previous meal will do for this dish). Melt the butter in a saute-pan. As soon 
as it is hot, put in the mashed potatoes and the chopped cabbage ; fry these quickly 
over the fire, mixing them well during the process. There should be just enough 
cabbage to give a green colour to the potatoes — too much makes the dish un- 
pleasant. Fry some rashers of bacon, and if preferred, the potato and cabbage 
could be fried in the bacon-fat after the bacon is done. Season the vegetables 
nicely with salt and pepper. Dress it in the shape of a pyramid on a hot dish, 
arrange the rashers of bacon round it, and serve. Instead of bacon, cold salt 
beef cut in slices and fried quickly can be used. This dish is suitable either for 
breakfast or lunch. 

Average cost, with bacon, about 6d. ; with salt beef, nominal. Time required, 
20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



h ib. macaroni. 

1 lb. cold cooked meat. 



1,791. ROMAN PIE. 

^ onion. | pint Bechamel sauce, 

1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 ozs. butter. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water for about forty minutes. When done, take 
up and drain. Butter a large piedish ; line it all over with macaroni. Cut up any 
kind of cold meat, game, or chicken into small dice. Chop the onion, fry it in a 
little butter, mix it with the meat, add seasoning of salt and pepper. Put a layer 
of this meat into the piedish over the macaroni, pour a Httle of the sauce over, 
fill with layers of meat, with a little sauce over each layer. When the dish is full, 
cover over with the remainder of the sauce, grate the cheese and sprinkle some over 
the top, then cover with macaroni. Sprinkle some more cheese over this ; put a 
few bits of butter here and there ; place the dish in a hot oven for about twenty 
minutes. The top of the pie should be a nice brown colour. Serve at once for 
luncheon or supper. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,792. MEAT AND TOMATO PIE. 
J lb. cooked meat. | breadcrumbs. | 6 tomatoes. | salt. | pepper. | 2 ozs. butter. 
Cut the meat, which should be underdone, into thin shces. Butter a piedish, 
sprinkle the bottom with breadcrumbs, put a layer of the meat over, then a layer 
of shced tomatoes. The tomatoes should be first peeled before slicing. Season 
with salt and pepper ; put a few bits of butter here and there. Continue in this 
way until the tomatoes and slices of meat are used up. Cover the top with bread- 
crumbs, put a few bits of butter over, place the dish in a moderate oven, and let it 
brown, then serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

PT. vn. 34 



528 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,793. TOMATO AND ONION PIE. 

2 Spanish onions. | 1 oz. butter. | 2 lbs. tomatoes. | breadcrumbs. | salt. | pepper. 

Peel the onions, put them into a basin, pour enough boihng water over them to 
cover, and let them soak for twelve hours. This is best done over-night. Dry the 
onions. When about to use, cut them in shoes. Melt the butter into a stewpan, 
put in the onions as soon as the butter is hot, and fry them brown. Shoe the 
tomatoes, butter a piedish, put in a layer of tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Over this put a layer of onion slices, then a few breadcrumbs. Continue in this 
way until the dish is full ; sprinkle the top with breadcrumbs, place a few bits of 
butter on the top, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. 
Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
March. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,794. FRIED ONIONS WITH POACHED EGGS. 

6 large onions. | cayenne. | 2 ozs. butter. | lemon-juice. | 6 new-laid eggs. 

Peel the onions, slice them finely. Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; put in the 
onions, sprinkle them with a very small pinch of cayenne, and fry a golden brown. 
When done, take up, drain them, and put in a cool oven to dry and keep hot. 
Poach the eggs in boiUng water, seasoned with salt and a few drops of lemon-juice, 
lift them out of tiie water carefully, trim with a round cutter. Dish the onions on 
a hot dish, squeeze over them some lemon-juice sufficient to give them an acid 
flavour, dress the poached eggs on top of the onions, and serve hot for breakfast. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,795. EPINARDS AUX CEUFS (SPINACH WITH EGGS). 

3 lbs. spinach. | 2 ozs. butter. J lemon. croutons. 

6 new-laid eggs. I \ gill cream. chopped parsley. salt and pepper. 

Pick and wash the spinach thoroughly in several waters, drain, and put it into 
a saucepan of boiling water seasoned with salt, cook until tender. When done, 
turn it into a cullender, press out the water and get it as dry as possible, then rub 
the spinach through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach, 
stir until hot, add the cream, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Poach 
the eggs carefully in boiling water to which has been added a little salt and a 
squeeze of lemon- juice. As soon as the eggs are done, lift them out carefully with 
a fish slice, trim with a round cutter. Have the spinach ready arranged in a dish, 
in the form of an oval shape. Dress the eggs neatly on this, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley in the centre of each egg, surround the spinach with triangular croutons 
of fried bread, and serve as a luncheon dish. Send to table very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
December. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,796. EPINARDS AUX SARDINES (SPINACH WITH SARDINES). 



3 lbs. spinach. 
2 ozs. butter. 



^ gill cream. I 3 hard-boiled salt. 

12 sardines. | eggs. pepper. 

Pick and wash the spinach well in several waters, in order to remove the grit. 
Cook it in plenty of boiling salted water until tender. When done, turn the spinach 
into a cullender, drain and press it in order to remove the water, and get it as dry as 
possible. Chop it finely, or rub it through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
add the spinach to it, stir over the fire until hot. Scrape and bone six sardines, 
chop them finely, and add to the spinach. Stir in the cream, salt, and pepper ; 
put over the fire again, and mix thoroughly. Turn the mixture on to a dish ; 
shape it ip^o an oblong, flat at the top. Take the remaining six sardines, scrape. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 



529 



clean, and arrange them crossways on the top of the spinach-shape. Cut the hard- 
boiled eggs in slices. Arrange them standing up round the spinach border, and 
serve hot. This dish is suitable for lunch. 

Average cost, 28. 2d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
December. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,797. SARDINES EN SURPRISE. 



6 hard-boiled 



salt, 
pepper. 



6 sardines. 1 oz. butter. 

eggs. I ^ teaspoonful parsley. watercress. 

Boil the eggs for twelve to fifteen minutes, then put them into cold water. 
When cold, shell them carefully. Cut each in half ; take out the yolks without 
breaking the whites. Scrape and bone the sardines, chop them finely, put them 
with the yolks of the eggs into a mortar, add the butter, and pound all well together ; 
season with salt, pepper, and parsley. With this mixture fill the whites of the 
eggs ; put the two whites belonging to each egg together, so that they look Uke 
whole eggs. Dish them in a circle, standing up. The end of each should be sUghtly 
cut in order to make them stand. Garnish the centre of the dish, and round it 
with fresh watercress, and serve cold as a luncheon dish. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,798. SARDINES AU JAMBON (SARDINES WITH HAM). 

12 sardines. j 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 1 oz. butter. 

6 fried croutes. ! 4 ozs. ham. salt and pepper. 

Scrape and clean the sardines. Cut some bread into squares, the size of the 
sardines ; fry them a nice brown colour in boihng fat or clarified butter. When 
cooked, place on each square a sUce of ham that has been cooked in butter. Melt 
the butter in a small frying-pan, put in the sardines, and fry them until hot through. 
Dish them on the ham, two sardines on each square. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese, put a few bits of butter on them, and put them in the oven for a few minutes 
to brown. Serve very hot for luncheon or breakfast. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,799. CURRIED SARDINES. 

12 sardines. ; 1 dessertspoonful curry- toast. salt. 

i teaspoonful cornflour. powder. cayenne. pepper. 

Strain off the oil from a large box of sardines, lift the sardines out carefully, 
scrape off the scales gently, so as not to break the fish. Put the cornflour into a 
basin, make it into a smooth paste with water. Put the oil into a small stewpan. 
When hot, add the curry-powder, fry a little, then add the mixed cornflour and 
sufficient water to make a thick sauce. Make some toast, place the sardines on it, 
cut in pieces, so as to have two sardines on each piece ; pour the sauce over, place in 
the oven to get hot through, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times- 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



12 sardines. 

1 gill brown sauce (No. 6). 

18 sultanas. 



salt and pepper, 
cayenne, 
stale bread. 



1,800. SARDINES PIQUANTES. 

i teaspoonful made mustard. 

vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Take the sardines out of the box, scrape them carefully, so as to remove the 
scales without breaking them. Pour the oil in which they were preserved into a 
small frying-pan, put in the sardines, and heat them in it. Warm the brown 
sauce in a small stewpan, add to it the made mustard, cream, and abou,t one tea- 

34--2 



530 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

spoonful of vinegar. Season with salt, pepper, and a very small pinch of cayenne ; 
add the sultanas ; make this sauce quite hot over the fire, but do not let it boil. 
Cut a sHce of stale bread, and make some croutes of bread, the same size and shape 
as the sardines ; they should be ^ inch thick ; fry them in very hot clarified fat. 
When ready, arrange these croutes on a hot dish, place a sardine on each, pour the 
sauce over, and serve very hot. The sauce should be thick enough to coat the 
fish. Serve for breakfast or luncheon. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,801. TOMATES AUX CERVELLES. 



6 large tomatoes. 

1 set calf's or sheep's brains. 



\ pint Bechamel sauce. 



sHces of stale bread. 



watercress or parsley. 



brown breadcrumbs. salt. 

\ teaspoonful chopped parsley. pepper. 

Skin the tomatoes by dipping them in boiling water, cut a circular piece out of 
the top of each, scoop out the pulp, let them drain upside down, on a plate or sieve. 
Season the insides with a little salt and pepper. Cook the brains, cut them up about 
the size of a small nut, mix these with the Bechamel sauce, add the parsley, and 
season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the pulp of the tomatoes through a hair 
sieve, and stir it into the mixture. Now fill the tomatoes with this, allowing for 
each tomato three or four pieces of brains, and one tablespoonful of the sauce. 
Sprinkle on the top of each a few browned breadcrumbs ; place the tomatoes on a 
buttered baking-tin, and bake in a brisk oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. Cut 
some slices of stale bread, \ inch thick, with a round cutter, 2 inches in diameter ; 
stamp out some rounds ; fry in hot fat or butter until a golden brown. When the 
tomatoes are ready, dress them on the fried croutes, and dish in a circle on a dish- 
paper ; garnish with watercress or parsley, and serve hot. This dish is suitable 
for breakfast or luncheon. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,802. SCALLOPS OF CALF'S BRAINS. 



2 sets of calf's brains. 



1 oz. butter. 



J gill cream. 



salt. 
pepper. 



1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 1 tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese. 

Soak the brains in cold water to extract all the blood. Place in a pan of cold 
water, bring it up to the boil, strain, and when cool, remove the skin, and cut into 
small pieces. Put the Bechamel sauce in a pan, add the dice of brains, pepper 
and salt, and chopped parsley. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then mix 
in the \ gill of cream. Butter some scallop shells, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle 
the top of each with grated Parmesan cheese and the butter melted. Place in a 
quick oven or under a salamander to brown the surface. Dish up on a folded 
napkin on a hot dish, and serve immediately. Sheep's brains can be prepared in 
the same manner. Serve as a lunch or supper dish. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,803. BROCHETTES DE CERVELLES. 

2 calf's brains. | bacon. | salt. | 1 oz. butter. | breadcrumbs. | pepper. 
Soak the brains in cold water, in order to extract all the blood, put them into 
a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil ; let them simmer for a few 
minutes, strain them, and put aside to cool. When cold, spht them in halves, 
and then in squares about 1| inches across. Melt the butter, dip each square into 
it, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and fresh breadcrumbs. Cut some shoes of rather fat 
bacon, divide it into squares the same size as the brains. Place these on a skewer, 
putting first a piece of brain, then bacon, then brain, and so on, until the skewer 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 531 

is full. Grill these over a moderate fire, turning them round, so that they are cooked 
evenly all over. When quite cooked, remove the skewer, and arrange them down 
the centre of a hot dish. Serve immediately. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 gill grated cheese. 
1 gill breadcrumbs. 



1,804. CHEESE PUDDING. 

1 ®gg- i teaspoonful of made I salt. 

1 gill milk. mustard. ^ i pepper. 



Put the cheese and breadcrumbs into a basin, mix together and season with salt, 
pepper, and made mustard. Beat the egg in another basin, put the milk into a 
saucepan, and, when hot, but not boiling, pour it on to the egg. Mix together, 
and then stir into the cheese and breadcrumbs. Well butter a piedish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a cool oven until quite firm. Take it up, and serve in the pie- 
dish. This dish is suitable for lunch or supper. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 2 or 3 persons. 

1,805. CHEESE CUSTARD. 

4 yolks of eggs. i pint milk. ^ teaspoonful of made mustard. salt. 

2 whites of eggs. 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. tomato sauce (No. 77). pepper. 

Grate the Parmesan cheese ; beat the eggs in a basin ; put the milk into a sauce- 
pan, and when hot, but not boihng, pour it on to the eggs. Mix them together, 
and then add the grated cheese, salt, pepper, and made mustard. Butter some 
small dariole-moulds, fill with the cheese custard, cover with buttered paper, and 
steam very gently for fifteen to twenty minutes. When quite firm, turn out on to 
a hot dish. Have the tomato sauce ready heated, and pour it round the moulds. 
Serve hot for lunch or supper. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable aU the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



1,806. RICE AND CHEESE AU GRATIN. 



J lb. rice. 
1 pint stock. 



J lb. Cheddar cheese. 
1 oz. butter. 



croutons of fried 
bread. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Put the stock into a saucepan, and, when boihng, sprinkle in the rice. Let this 
cook until the rice is soft and the stock absorbed ; season with pepper and salt. 
Butter a fireproof dish, spread it with a layer of the rice mixture, sprinkle thickly 
with the grated cheese, then cover again with a layer of rice. Continue in this wsiy 
until the rice and cheese are used up. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and sprinkle 
it over the surface of the rice and cheese. Place in the oven to brown. Take up 
and garnish round with three-corner shaped pieces of fried bread. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. SuiP 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,807. RIZ A LA TURQUE (RICE, TURKISH STYLE). 



4 ozs. rice. 
2 ozs. butter. 



cayenne. 

salt. 



saffron powder. 1 tablespoonful sultana. 



raisms. 



1 pint white stock. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the rice as soon as the butter is hot and fry 
it until very slightly coloured ; then add the stock by degrees as the rice swells. 
Keep it well stirred, and cook gently until the rice is tender. It will take about one 
hour. Season the rice with salt, cayenne, and sufficient saffron powder to flavour. 
Add lastly the sultana raisins, which have been cleaned and the stalks removed. 
Mix all well together, cook a few minutes longer, dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 4d. or 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



532 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,808. RIZ A LA POLONAISE (RICE, POLISH STYLE). 



^ lb. rice. 

1 onion. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 

1 quart white stock. 

croutes of fried bread. 



cayenne. 

2 ozs. cooked ham. 

1 oz. grated cheese. 

Cut the onion in slices ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, and fry 
without bro\\Tiing ; then add the rice, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes ; 
add the stock by degrees, as the rice swells. Cook until the rice is tender, stir con- 
stantly, as soon as the stock becomes absorbed. Cut the ham into fine shreds or 
dice, add to the rice, also the grated cheese. When ready to serve, season with salt 
and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Turn the rice on to a hot dish, arrange it neatly, 
and surround with three-cornered croutes of fried bread. Serve for lunch or supper. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,809. RIZ A LA FLORENTINE. 

1 gill picked shrimps, crayfish, 1 onion. 

or prawns. salt. 

1 dessertspoonful curry-powder. pepper. 

Chop the onion ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, and fry it 
for a few minutes ; then add the rice, and cook a little longer. Stir in by degrees 
1 quart of stock or water ; cook over the fire until the rice is tender. Melt the 
remaining 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the curry-powder, and fry for a few 
minutes, stirring all the time ; then add to it the cooked rice, the shrimps, crayfish, 
or prawns, whichever is being used, and the grated cheese ; mix all well together, 
season with salt and pepper, stir over the fire until very hot. Dish up neatly, 
and serve. This is a nice dish for breakfast. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



8 ozs. rice. 

2 ozs. butter. 

IJ ozs. Parmesan cheese. 



1,810. RIZ A LA PRINCESSE (RICE, PRINCESS STYLE). 



8 ozs. rice. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 



1 oz. butter. 

1 dried haddock. 



\ oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 
fried croutons of bread. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Wash the rice, have ready a saucepan with 2 quarts of water, bring to the boil, 
put in the rice, and boil quickly until it is tender. Drain and wash it, put on a 
baking-tin in a cool oven to dry ; turn it about with a fork occasionally. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the rice, and stir it about ; then add the whites of 
the hard-boiled eggs, finely shredded. Have ready cooked the dried haddock, 
one of medium size ; take away all bone and skin and shred it finely ; add this to 
the rice, and white of eggs, season to taste, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. 
Pile the mixture in the centre of a hot dish. Rub the yolks of the eggs through 
a wire sieve, mix with the grated Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle it all over the rice. 
Put the dish in a hot oven for a few minutes to brown the surface. Before sending 
to table, arrange round the base of the dish the fried croutons of bread. These 
should be of triangular shapes. Serve very hot. This is a delicious dish for 
breakfast. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times, 
^ufiicient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,811. RIZ A LA MILANAISE (RICE, MILANESE STYLE). 

4 ozs. rice. I 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 4 ozs. cooked chicken or salt. 
1 oz. butter, i 1 pint stock. game. pepper. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the rice, and fry it for a few minutes ; add 
the stock, and cook until tender. Add more stock if necessary ; stir well during the 
process of cooking or the rice may burn as it thickens. Cut the cooked chicken 
or game into small dice, mix this into the cooked rice, add the cheese, and season 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 



533 



to taste with salt and pepper. Mix all well together, make thoroughly hot, and 
serve for lunch, supper, or breakfast. 

Average cost, 3d., without the meat. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,812. RIZ A LA L'ESPAGNOLE (RICE, SPANISH STYLE). 



8 ozs. rice. 
1 oz. butter. 



I gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



6 thin slices of ham. 
3 smoked sausages. 



Boil the rice in plenty of salted, boihng water. Wh^n tender, drain, wash, and 
dry. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the rice, and fry it a light golden colour ; 
then add the tomato sauce, season with salt, pepper, and the grated cheese ; mix 
all well together. Pile the mixture on a hot dish, grill the slices of ham, fry the 
sausages, and garnish the base of the dish with slices of ham and sausage arranged 
alternately. Serve hot for breakfast or supper. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 127. — Timbale de Lard aux Eognons. 



1,813. TIMBALE DE LARD AUX ROGNONS (TIMBALE OF BACON WITH 

KIDNEYS). 



4 lb. streaky bacon. 
3 sheep kidneys. 
3 ozs. butter. 



i gill tomato sauce (No. 77). salt. pepper. 

1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 4 ozs. rice. parsley. 

J pint broAvn sauce (No. 6). 1 onion. 1 puit stock. 

Cut the bacon into very thin strips, butter a plain timbale or Charlotte-mould, 
and hne it all over with the shces of bacon ; arrange them close together. IMelt 
2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, put in the sliced onion, and fry a httle ; then add the 
raw rice and fry a light colour, stir in the stock by degrees, add more than the pint 
if found necessary, boil until the rice is tender, stirring all the time. When the 
rice is done, add the tomato sauce, grated cheese, and seasoning. Mix all together 
thoroughly, cook a little longer. Coat the inside of the lined mould with a thick 
layer of the rice mixture over the bacon, leaving a hollow in the centre. Skin the 
kidneys, cut them in slices, remove the hard part. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saute- 
pan. When very hot, put in the sHced kidneys, toss them in the butter for about 
one minute, then add sufficient brown sauce to moisten them ; season with salt 
and pepper. Fill the hollow in the centre of the rice with the stewed kidneys. 
Cover over with a thick layer of the rice. Stand the mould in a baking-tm, pout 



534 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



a little water round it, place a buttered paper over the top of the mould, and bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When done, take up, turn out on to a hot 
dish, pour some brown sauce round the base of the dish, sprinkle in the centre of 
the top a little chopped parsley, and serve for breakfast or supper. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,814. QUEUE DE BCEUF FRITE (FRIED OX-TAIL). 



1 ox-tail. 

2 "onions. 



2 quarts stock, 
breadcjumbs. 



1 carrot. 1 bouquet garni j frying-fat (No. 197). 

1 egg. (No. 194). I fried parsley (No. 195). 

Cut the ox-tail into joints, put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, 
and bring to the boil ; then take up the pieces of tail, dry them in a cloth. Put 
the joints into a clean saucepan, add the 2 quarts of stock, the onions peeled, the 
carrot scraped and cut in half, and the bouquet garni. Place the pan on the fire, 
and simmer gently for two or three hours. When the pieces of ox-tail are done, 
lift them out of the stock, drain them on a sieve, let cool a Httle. Beat up an egg 




FiQ. 128. — Queue dq B(euf Feitb. 



on a plate, dip in the larger joints, brush them all over with the egg, toss in bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in very hot frying-fat. Drain on paper, dish on a hot dish, 
garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot, for lunch or supper. 

N.B. — The stock in which the ox-tail was stewed should be used for soup. 

Average cost of ox-tail. Is. 6d. Time required, 3 to 3J hours. Seasonable at 
all times. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

1,815. MARROW-BONES. 

The marrow-bones chosen for this dish should be those which come from the 
centre of a round of beef, or leg or shin bones. They should be sawn in halves 
across, the thick ends chopped, so that they may stand straight. Make a paste 
of flour and water, cover the open end of the bones with this. Have ready a sauce- 
pan containing hot water, put in the bones ; the water should reach half-way up 
the bones ; put the lid on the saucepan, and boil for about half an hour. When 
done, take away the paste, wrap a napkin round each bone, dish up, and send to 
table with some hot dry toast. 

Average cost of whole marrow-bone, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Season- 
able at all times. Sufficient for (1 bone) 3 or 4 persons. 




c 
o 

c 

DO 

d 

E 
«j 

U 

X 

D 

c 
o 

£ 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 535 



1,816. MARROW CROUSTADES. 



1 marrow-bone. 
4 mushrooms. 



stale bread. 
1 oz. butter. 



J teaspoonful parsley, 
brown sauce (No. 6). 



1 shallot. 
^ lemon. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Cook the marrow-bone as in previous recipe (No. 1,815). When the marrow 
is done, take it up, and remove the marrow from the bone. Chop the shallot and 
the mushrooms finely. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the shallot, 
and fry it a little ; then add the mushrooms, cook for ten minutes until the moisture 
has evaporated, then add the parsley, salt, and pepper. Moisten with a Uttle 
brown sauce, put the cooked marrow into this, do not let it cook any longer, then 
add the juice of the lemon. Cut some slices of stale bread 1 J inches thick, and then 
with a plain round cutter, 2 inches in diameter, cut out some pieces, make an incision 
with a smaller cutter to form the lid. Fry these cases in very hot fat a golden brown. 
Remove the Hd, scoop out the crumb from the inside. Fill the croustades with 
the marrow mixture, put on the lid, or if preferred, a httle chopped parsley can be 
sprinkled on the top instead. Put the cases in the oven for a minute or two, and 
serve very hot for luncheon or supper. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,817. JAMBON GRILLE AUX CONCOMBRES. 



2 cucumbers. 
2 ozs. butter. 



demi-glace sauce (No. I J gill stock. 

29). 6 or 8 slices of ham. 



Peel the cucumbers, cut them in quarters, take out the seeds, and slice into 
inch-long pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the cucumber, and saute 
it in the butter for a few minutes ; then add the stock, and cook over the fire gently 
until soft ; season with salt and pepper, and rub through a hair sieve. Warm 
this puree quickly, grill the sfices of ham, dress the cucumber puree neatly on a hot 
dish, arrange the sHces of ham on it, pour some demi-glace sauce round, and serve 
for lunch, supper, or breakfast. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
August. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,818. JAMBON AUX CHAMPIGNONS. 



1 lb. potatoes. 



butter. I salt. 



2 lbs. raw ham. 
^ lb. mushrooms. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 2 yolks. I pepper. 

Cook the potatoes, drain, dry, and let them get cold ; then rub them through a 
fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the sieved potato, mix, and let 
it get hot. Season with salt and pepper, add the two yolks of eggs, stir over the 
fire until thoroughly mixed and smooth. Turn this preparation on to a plate, 
and let it get cold, then put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached to it ; 
with this force out a pretty border on a china fireproof dish. The border should 
be about 2 inches in height ; brush it over with beaten egg, and put into the oven 
to brown a nice golden colour. Cut some shoes of raw ham or bacon (gammon 
rashers would be suitable for this dish), stamp out with a round cutter, 2| inches in 
diameter, seven or eight rounds ; grill these in butter, and keep hot. Chop the 
trimmings of ham finely, melt some butter in a stewpan, put in the ham, and cook 
over the fire ; add the sauce and cook a little longer ; season with a httle pepper. 
Peel and wash the mushrooms, toss them in butter. To dish up, dress the chopped 
ham mixture in the potato border, pile the mushrooms in the centre, arrange the 
grilled shoes of ham round the mushrooms. Garnish the dish with a few sprigs 
of parsley, and serve hot for breakfast or lunch (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 persons. 



536 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,819. CROOTES AU JAMBON (HAM TOAST). 



8 ozs. cooked ham. 
^ gill Bechamel sauce. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 shallot. 



1 yolk of egg. 
pepper. 



chopped parsley, 
buttered toast. 



Chop the shallot finely ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot as soon 
as the butter is hot, and fry it without browning. Mince the ham, add it to the 
fried shallot, and stir over the fire till quite hot ; then add the Bechamel sauce and 
the yolk of the egg, stir until it thickens, then season the mixture with chopped 
parsley and pepper. Have ready some buttered toast, cut off the crust, and divide 
into 2-inch squares. Cover these thickly with a layer of the ham mixture, sprinkle 
over a Httle chopped parsley, and serve very hot. This makes a nice breakfast 
or lunch dish. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.820. CROOTES DE JAMBON A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED HAM ON TOAST). 

8 ozs. ham. | \ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 2 anchovies. toast. 

1 yolk of egg. I 1 teaspoonful mustard. cayenne. 1 oz. butter. 

Chop the ham finely ; scrape and bone the anchovies, cut them up small. Put 
these ingredients into a mortar and pound to a paste, add the yolk of egg and, by 
degrees, stir in the Bechamel sauce, season with cayenne and the dry mustard, 
mix all well together. Put this mixture into a stewpan, make it thoroughly hot ; 
have ready some squares of toast about 2 inches in size, butter them Hghtly, spread 
the mixture on the toast. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.821. FOIE DE VOLAILLE A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED CHICKEN LIVERS). 



3 chicken livers. 



6 thin slices of bacon. 



fried parsley (No. 
195). 



toast, 
cayenne. 



1|- ozs. butter. J teaspoonful mustard. 

Wash the Uvers, cut each in half, roll a piece of bacon round each piece, and 
broil them over a clear fire, or fry them in a saute-pan. Mix the butter and mustard 
together on a plate, add a pinch of cayenne to it. Make the toast, take off the crust, 
divide into six 2-inch squares, spread each piece with some of the mustard butter ; 
place one of the pieces of broiled fiver and bacon on each piece of toast ; put the 
toasts into the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and serve at once. 
Garnish the dish with fried parsley. This dish is suitable for breakfast or lunch. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufii- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,822. PIG'S FEET, STUFFED. 



4 pig's feet. 
1 egg. 



8 large onions. 2 tablespoonfuls of 
2 ozs. butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls of 
breadcrumbs. 



jjepper. 
salt. 



sage. 

Wash the pig's feet thoroughly, put into a saucepan of cold water, and bring 
to the boil. Strain it off, put the feet into another saucepan, cover with more cold 
water, and let it simmer until the feet are tender. Take them up, let them cool 
Bfightly, then split each in half, place them together again, and press under a fight 
weight until cold. Peel the onions, cut them in pieces, put into a saucepan of water, 
and boil until soft. Drain them well and chop finely. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the chopped onion, powdered sage, pepper, and salt, and a few bread- 
crumbs. When the feet are cold, divide them in halves again, and spread the inner 
side of one half with the sage and onion stuffing ; replace the other half, press 
together, and then cut into convenient sized pieces. Dip them into beaten egg, 
then into breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot fat until a golden colour. Dish up on 
a dish -paper on a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCH, AND SUPPER DISHES 537 

1,823. STUFFED PIG'S FEET WITH MUSHROOMS. 



4 pig's feet. 
1 oz. butter. 



3 ozs. breadcrumbs. 
1 teaspoonful parsley. 



^ lb. mushrooms. 1 2 yolks of eggs. | ^ lemon, 

brown sauce (No. 6). | mashed potato. | salt and pepper. 



Clean the pig's feet, put them into a saucepan of cold water and bring them to 
the boil ; strain off the water, place the feet in another saucepan, cover again with 
cold water, and let them simmer gently until tender. Strain them, and when a 
little cooled, remove the bones carefully. Wash and peel ^ pound of mushrooms, 
chop them finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the mushrooms, add the 
breadcrumbs, grated lemon-rind, chopped parsley, pepper and salt ; cook over the 
fire, and then bind with the yolks of eggs. Fill the cavities in the feet with this 
preparation, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, cover with buttered paper, and 
place in the oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Cook the rest of the mushrooms 
in the oven with a Uttle butter on each. Make a flat bed of mashed potato on a 
hot dish, dress the pig's feet on this, pour brown sauce over them and round the 
dish. Garnish with the cooked mushrooms, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 3| to 4 hours. Seasonable, September 
to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,824. PIG'S FEET STUFFED WITH SAUSAGE. 
4 pig's feet. I 1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful chopped 1 white of egg. mashed potatoes. 



breadcrumbs. 



devilled sauce (No. 31). 



1 shallot. ' ^ lb. sausage-meat. parsley. 

Clean the pig's feet, put them into a saucepan of cold water, and bring to the boil ; 
strain them, cover again with cold water, and put on the fire to simmer until tender. 
Take them up, cut in halves, and remove the bones. Peel and chop the shallot, 
fry it in the butter until a golden colour, then add the sausage-meat and chopped 
parsley ; mix thoroughly together. Stuff the pig's feet with this preparation ; brush 
them over with white of egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, place them on a buttered 
tin, and cook in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Make a flat bed of 
mashed potato on a hot dish, arrange the feet neatly on this, and pour devilled 
sauce round the dish. Serve very hot. Suitable for lunch or supper. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



CHAPTER XXII 

EGG DISHES 

1,825. SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

6 new-laid eggs. | IJ ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. | ^ gill cream. | toast. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, break the eggs into it, add the cream, a pinch of 
salt and pepper, stir quickly with a wooden spoon over the fire until the eggs begin 
to set, draw the pan off the fire, continue to stir for a little longer. The eggs must 
not be allowed to get hard, but they must be set enough to dish up. Have ready 
some hot buttered toast, dress the eggs on it, and cut into squares. Serve very 
hot. Instead of serving the eggs on toast, they can be piled up in the centre of a 
hot dish, and croutons of toasted bread, cut in triangular shapes, put round. 

N.B. — The cream is an improvement to this dish, but it is not essential. It 
can therefore be left out when economy is desired. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,826. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
6 eggs. I 2| ozs. butter, | J lb. mushrooms. | salt. | pepper. | J gill cream. | parsley- 
Peel, wash, and dry the mushrooms ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in 
the mushrooms, and cook them for a few minutes over the fire. Take a quarter 
of the mushrooms after they are cooked, and cut them into dice. Melt the rest 
of the butter in a stewpan, break in the eggs, stir them with a wooden spoon until 
beginning to set ; then add the cream, salt, pepper, and the mushroom dice, cook 
a Httle longer over the fire until the mixture begins to set, then remove from the 
fire, stir a few minutes longer ; then dress the eggs in the centre of a hot dish, garnish 
round the dish with groups of cooked mushrooms, sprinkle over a little chopped 
parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,827. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH HERBS. 

6 eggs. I IJ ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. | 1 tablespoonful parsley, tarragon, and chervil. 

Chop the herbs, using equal quantities of each. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
break in the eggs, and scramble them in the usual way ; add the chopped herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Dress the eggs on a hot dish, and surround the dish with sippets 
of toast. Serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons, 

1,828. SCRAMBLED EGGS A LA CHASSEUR. 

6 eggs. I 3 chicken livers. | chopped parsley. | 2J ozs. butter. | ^ gill Chasseur sauce (No. 19). 

Melt 1 OZ. of butter in a stewpan, wash the livers, cut each in half, put them 

in the butter, and cook them until done. Beat the eggs lightly in a basin, put 

them into 1^ ozs. of butter melted in a stewpan, stir over the fire with a wooden 

538 



EGG DISHES 539 

spoon until beginning to set ; then remove them from the fire, stir a little longer, 
season with salt and pepper ; dish the eggs in a circle on a hot dish, place the chicken 
livers in the centre, sprinkle on the latter a little chopped parsley. Pour some 
sauce round, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons, 

1,829. SCRAMBLED EGGS IN POTATOES. 

6 eggs. ^ oz. prawn or shrimp butter L H ozs. butter. 

3 large round potatoes. (No. 186). 12 prawns. 

Scrub the potatoes, bake them in the oven until done. Cut a piece off the top 
of each ; scoop out the pulp. This must be done carefully so as not to break the 
skins. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the eggs, season, and add to them the 
picked prawns. Stir over the fire until the mixture sets, then take it off the fire, 
and work in the J oz. of prawn butter. Fill up the potato skins with this preparation. 
Dress them on a hot dish, on which a folded napkin has been arranged. Serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. to 2s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,830. SCRAMBLED EGGS AUX CROOTONS. 

6 eggs. I IJ ozs. butter. | stale bread. | chopped parsley. | salt. | pepper. 

Cut a slice or two of stale bread, take off the crust, cut the bread in strips, and 
then into dice ; fry these in clarified fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
eggs, season with salt and pepper, stir with a wooden spoon until they are just 
setting, then mix in one tablespoonful of the fried dice of bread ; take off the fire. 
Dish the eggs on a hot dish in the centre, sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over, 
and garnish the dish with Httle groups of fried dice of bread. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,831. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH FRIED POTATOES. 

6 eggs. I Ih ozs. butter. | 1 large potato. | salt. | pepper. | chopped parsley. 

Peel the potato, cut it in sHces | inch thick, then into dice ; wash and dry them, 
fry in clarified fat a golden brown, drain, and keep hot. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, break in the eggs, season them with salt and pepper, stir over the fire until just 
setting, then remove ; stir a little longer, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, arrange 
the fried dice of potato in the centre, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and 
serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,832. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ANCHOVIES. 
6 eggs. I 1^ ozs. butter. | 6 anchovies. | salt. | pepper. | toast. 

Scrape the anchovies, wash and wipe them, cut them down the back, take out 
the back bone, chop the fillets finely. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, break in the 
eggs, season with pepper and very Uttle salt, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until the eggs begin to set, then add to them the chopped anchovies ; mix well, 
turn out on to a hot dish, garnish round with pieces of freshly-toasted bread, and 
serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



540 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,833. TIMBALES OF SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

\ lb. pu£F-paste. j 1| ozs. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls Bechamel 

6 eggs. ,' 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. sauce (No. 4). 

Line some small dariole-moulds with puff-paste, fill these with raw rice, and 
bake a very light colour. Roll out the remains of the pastry, and cut out with a 
round fancy cutter some pieces to use as covers. Cut out some still smaller pieces 
with a smaller cutter, brush the covers over with egg, put the small rounds on the 
top of the large ones, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done, take up, turn the rice out of the timbales carefully, and take the pastry 
cases out of the moulds. Melt the butter in a stew^an, break in the eggs, season 
with salt and pepper, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon, mix in the cheese, and 
sauce as soon as it sets, remove from the fire, and fill the Httle pastry cases with the 
egg mixture. Put on each one of the covers, dish on a folded napkin, garnish with 
parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes, after the pastry is made. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.834. SCRAMBLED EGGS A LA PORTUGAISE. 

6 eggs. I 2| ozs. butter. | 3 or 4 tomatoes. | salt. | pepper. | chopped parsley. I meat-glaze. 

Skin the tomatoes. To do this soak them in boiling water for a minute or two, 
then cut them in dice, pressing out the seeds. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the tomato dice, and toss over the fire until cooked ; season them with salt 
and pepper. Put the rest of the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, break in the eggs, 
season with salt and pepper, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until they begin 
to set. Turn them on to a hot dish, arrange in a circle, place the tomatoes in the 
centre, sprinkle over the latter a Httle chopped parsley, and pour a Httle Hquid meat- 
glaze round the eggs. Serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at aU times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1.835. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS. 

6 eggs. I 1^ gills asparagus -points. | 2| ozs. butter. | salt. ] pepper. | \ gill cream. 

Cook the asparagus-points in boihng water, seasoned with a little salt, until 
tender. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the cooked asparagus, and toss 
over the fire for a few minutes. Melt the rest of the butter in a saute-pan, break 
the eggs into it, add the cream, salt and pepper, stir over the fire until the eggs 
begin to set ; then add to them | gill of the cooked asparagus-points, cook a Httle 
longer, but keep them creamy. Dish up on a hot dish in a circle, arrange the 
remaining giU of cooked asparagus-points in the centre, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
July. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

1,836. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

6 eggs. I \\ ozs. Gruyere cheese. | salt. | IJ ozs. butter. | 1^ ozs. Parmesan cheese. I pepper. 

Break the eggs into a basin, beat them lightly, grate the Gruyere and Parmesan 
cheese, stir them to the eggs, season with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan, pour in the eggs, stir over the fire until they begin to set ; keep them 
soft and creamy ; they should be just set enough to dish. Dress them on a hot dish, 
and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at aU times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



EGG DISHES 541 

1,837. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TRUFFLES. 

6 eggs. I 1 J ozs. butter. ( 1 truffle. | salt. | pepper. | toast. | ^ gill cream. 

Melt the butter in a saute-pan, break in the eggs, season with salt and pepper, 
add the cream, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon, until the eggs begin to set, 
then mix in the finely chopped truffle ; mix well. Turn the eggs on to a hot dish, 
garnish round with sippets of toast, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,838. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH SHRIMPS. 

6 eggs. I 1 gill picked shrimps. | pepper. | salt. | 1| ozs. butter. | | gill Bechamel sauce. (No. 4). 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, break in the eggs, stir them with a wooden spoon 
until just setting ; season with salt and pepper. Take the pan off the fire, dress 
the eggs on a hot dish in a circle. Have ready the shrimps prepared in the following 
manner : put them into a saucepan, add the sauce to them, make very hot, arrange 
in the centre of the dish, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1.839. CEUFS FRITS A LA PROVENCALE (FRIED EGGS A LA PROVENCALE). 

6 eggs. I I gill salad oil. | 3 tomatoes. | i pint Espagnole sauce (No. 33). | salt. | pepper. 

Pour the oil into a frying-pan on the fire. When hot, break the eggs, one at a 
time, in a cup, season with salt and pepper, slide it carefully into the pan, and baste 
with the oil. When done, lift it out with a slice, and drain well. Cook all the eggs 
in the same way. Cut the tomatoes in halves, season with salt and pepper, and cook 
them in the oven on a buttered baking-sheet for a few minutes. Arrange these, 
when done, on a hot dish ; place a fried egg on each half -tomato. Heat the sauce, 
pour it round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.840. CEUFS FRITS A LA PORTUGAISE (EGGS FRIED, PORTUGUESE STYLE). 



6 eggs. 

3 tomatoes. 



2 ozs. rice. 
A onion. 



J pint stock. salt. j ^ pint broAvn sauce, 

pepper. ! | gill oil. 



IJ ozs. butter. 

Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; slice the onion, and fry it a pale brown colour 
in the butter ; then add the rice, fry a little, then add the stock and boil until tender, 
adding a little more stock if necessary ; stir constantly as soon as the rice thickens. 
Cut the tomatoes in halves, scoop out a little of the centre, remove the seeds, season 
with salt and pepper, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and put in the oven 
until the tomatoes are cooked. They must not be too much done. Arrange them 
on a hot dish, stuff them with the prepared rice. Pour the oil into a frying-pan, 
fry the eggs in it, one at a time, basting them well. When done, hft them out, 
drain, and dress them on the tomatoes. Put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
round, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,841. CEUFS FRITS AU BEURRE NOIR (FRIED EGGS WITH BLACK 

BUTTER). 

6 eggs. ' 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar. ! salt and pepper. 

3 ozs. butter. chopped parsley. 1 buttered toast. 

Melt 1 OZ. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, but it must not brown. Fry 
the eggs in this, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and cook for about three 
minutes. Have ready some hot buttered toast ; cut out in rounds. Lift the eggs 



542 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



carefully out of the pan, drain well, and dress them on the rounds of toast ; ketjj 
them warm. Put 2 ozs. of butter in the same pan, heat it, and let the butter acquire 
a nut-brown colour ; then take it off the fire, stir in the vinegar, and a pinch of 
chopped parsley. Pour this over the eggs, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 8 to 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,842. PETITS CHOUX AUX GEUFS (LITTLE SHAPES WITH EGGS). 

2 ozs. butter. I 3 whole eggs. I 1 gill water. 

2 ozs. flour. I 1 yolk of egg. | chopped parsley. 

Put 1 oz. of butter and the gill of water into a small stewpan, pass the flour 
through a sieve on to a piece of kitchen paper ; put the stewpan containing the 
water and butter on the fire, and bring it to the boil ; then add the flour, stir vigor- 
ously until the paste leaves the sides and bottom of the pan, then take the stewpan 
off the fire, and let the contents cool a Uttle. Mix in one whole egg and one yolk, 
beat well until smooth. Butter eight small boat-shaped or oval moulds, fill them 



1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
1 tablespoonful cream. 



salt, 
pepper. 




Fig. 129. — Petits Choux aux CEufs. 



three parts full with the choux pastry, and bake in a rather slow oven. When done, 
turn them out of the moulds, cut a piece out of the top to form a lid, scoop out the 
soft inside. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then add the eggs, cream, 
cheese (grated), salt, pepper, and a Httle chopped parsley ; stir over the fire until 
the mixture sets, then fill up the cases, put on the fids, place them in a cool oven, 
just to heat them through again. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable aU the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



1,843. DEVILLED EGGS. 



6 eggs. 

salt. 

cayenne. 



J gill cream. 
1^ oz. butter. 
2 yolks of eggs. 



1 chilli. 
1 oz. ham. 
croutes of bread. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful chutney, 
chopped parsley. 

Fry the eggs in 1| ozs. of butter. When done, lift them carefully with a fish 
slice, and trim them with a round cutter. Arrange the eggs on a hot dish in a circle, 
pour over them the following sauce : Put into a stewpan the | gill of cream and 
the remaining 1 oz. of butter, season with salt and a pinch of cayenne, put the 
pan on the fire, and bring to the boil ; then add the yolks of the eggs, the mustard and 



EGG DISHES 543 

chutney ; stir over the fire until the sauce thickens, but it must not boil. Chop the 
ham and the chilli, and add to the sauce. Pour it over the eggs, and garnish the 
dish with triangular croutons of fried bread. Serve very hot for breakfast or lunch. 
Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,844. FRIED EGGS IN BATTER. 

6 eggs. lemon-juice. 1^ tablespoonfuls milk. 1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

2 eggs. 2 ozs. flour. 1 salt and pepper. fried parsley (No. 195). 

Poach the eggs in boiling water in which a Httle salt has been dissolved and a 
few drops of lemon-juice added. When cooked, lift carefully out of the water 
with a fish slice, trim neatly with a round cutter, put them on a plate, and let them 
get cold. Sieve the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt ; separate the yolks 
and whites of the eggs, add the yolks to the flour, mix with the flour, stirring in by 
degrees the milk and the oil ; beat to a smooth paste. Whip the whites of the eggs 
very stiffly, and, just before frjdng, stir them lightly into the batter. Sprinkle the 
eggs with a pinch of salt and pepper. Have ready a stewpan with plenty of very 
hot frying-fat. Put the eggs, one at a time, into the batter ; coat them well all 
over ; lift them carefully with a spoon, and drop them into the boiling fat. Fry 
a delicate golden colour. Lift out when done, drain on paper, dress on a hot dish, 
garnish wdth fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,845. MUSHROOMS AND EGGS. 



1 lb. mushrooms. I 2 ozs. butter. 
6 new-laid eggs. | breadcrumbs. 



fried parsley, 
croiitons of fried bread. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Peel the mushrooms, wash and dry them. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put 
in the mushrooms, and cook them for about ten minutes, until done ; then arrange 
them on a fireproof dish, break the raw eggs on to the mushrooms, taking care not 
to break the yolks ; sprinkle over some salt and pepper, and over all a few bread- 
crumbs. Put the dish in a hot oven for four or five minutes to set the eggs. Cut 
a shce of stale bread into triangular pieces, fry them in clarified fat a golden brown, 
garnish the dish with these and fried parsley. Serve very hot for breakfast. 

Average cost, 28. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,846. CEUFS A LA GARIGEN. 

6 new-laid eggs. 2 yolks of eggs. I egg and breadcrumbs. 

J pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. | fned parsley (No. 195). 

Poach the eggs in salted, boiling water, drain well, and trim them neatly with 
a round cutter. Warm the veloute sauce, season to taste, add the yolks of the eggs, 
put over the fire again, and cook the eggs, but do not boil ; add the cheese. Pour 
this sauce over the eggs, let them get quite set and cold, then egg and crumb them 
twice, fry in clarified fat in a stewpan, drain, and dress on a hot dish in a circle. 
Garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,847. CEUFS A LA CR£ME. 



i lb. cold chicken. I 2 ozs. ham. 
breadcrumbs. ^ oz. butter. 

6 new-laid eggs. ■ J oz. flour. 



2 gills Bechamel sauce. 

^ giU cream. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



i giU water. 

legg. 

salt and pepper. 

Chop the chicken and ham finely, melt the butter in a stewpan. When hot, 

stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil until very thick ; mix in the minced chicken 

and ham, season with salt and pepper, and half the parsley. Turn the mixture 

on to a plate, and let it get cold. Divide into six equal portions, make each part 

PT. VII. 35 



544 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



into a flat cake, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Arrange these 
on a hot dish, and keep warm. Poach the eggs in boihng, salted water. When 
done, drain well, trim with a round cutter, place an egg on each fried cake. Warm 
up the Bechamel sauce, add the cream to it, make it thoroughly hot, season nicely 
with salt and pepper. Sprinkle over each egg a little chopped parsley, garnish the 
dish with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,848. CEUFS POCHES A L'ANCHOIS. 
6 eggs. J pint anchovy sauce (No. 85). salt. few drops of lemon -juice or 

toasted bread. 6 fillets of anchovy. pepper. vinegar. 

Put some boihng water into a saute-pan, add a little salt and a few drops of 
lemon-juice or vinegar, place the pan on the fire, and bring to the boil. Break the 
eggs into the boihng water, taking care not to break the yolks ; simmer for about 
three minutes ; the white should cover the yolk ; when this happens the egg is 
done. Take up with a slice, drain well, trim round the outside of the eggs with a 
round cutter, place each egg on a round of toast. Dress on a hot dish ; have ready 
the anchovy sauce, pour it over the eggs, cut the fillets in thin strips, and garnish 
the eggs with them, arranging in lattice fashion ; place the dish in the oven for one 
minute, and send to table very hot. 

N.B. — Eggs for poaching must be quite fresh, new-laid if possible. This is 
absolutely necessary in order to obtain good results. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,849. CEUFS POCHES AU CELERI (POACHED EGGS WITH CELERY). 



6 eggs. 

1 large head of celery. 

stock. 



salt. 

pepper. 

1 oz. butter. 



J gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
I gill cream, 
chopped parsley. 

Wash the celery well, take off the outside leaves, cut the remainder in pieces 
about 1 inch in length, boil in stock until tender, then drain it. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan, put in the celery, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add the 
sauce, cream, salt, and pepper ; mix over the fire until thoroughly hot ; keep the 
pan by the side of the fire until ready to use. Poach the eggs in boihng, salted 
water, to which a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar have been added. As soon 
as the eggs are done, drain and arrange them on rounds of buttered toast, place them 
on a hot dish in a circle, and dress the celery in the centre ; sprinkle the latter 
with a httle chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required to cook the celery, 20 to 30 minutes; 
3 minutes to cook the eggs. Seasonable, September to February. Sufficient for 
6 persons. 



1,850. CEUFS POCHES A LA DUCHESSE (POACHED EGGS, DUCHESS 

STYLE). 

^ lb. boiled potatoes. 

I lb. mushrooms. 

I pint brown sauce (No. 6). 



6 new-laid eggs. 
1^ oz. butter, 
lemon-juice. 



parsley. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

pepper and salt. 

Rub the boiled potatoes through a sieve. Melt | oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the potato as soon as the butter is hot, stir until hot, then mix in one yolk, 
season with salt and pepper. Turn this mixture on to a plate, let it get cold, divide 
into six equal parts, shape each part into a round, brush over with yolk of egg, 
and bake in the oven until a nice brown. These potato croutes should be about 
2 inches in diameter. Peel, wash, and dry the mushrooms ; cook them in a stewpan 
with 1 oz. of butter for about ten minutes ; keep hot until wanted. Poach the eggs 
in salted, boihng water, to which a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar have been 



EGG DISHES 545 

added ; simmer gently for three minutes ; lift out carefully Mith a slice ; drain 
well, and trim the edges with a round cutter. Place one egg on the top of each 
croute of potato, dress them in a circle on a hot dish, arrange the cooked mush- 
rooms in the centre, sprinkle a Uttle chopped parsley over the latter, pour the sauce 
round, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,851. CEUFS POCHES A LA MORNAY (POACHED EGGS WITH MORNAY 

SAUCE). 

salt. 



brown breadcrumbs. 
1 oz. Parmesan cheese, 
buttered toast. 



pepper, 
butter. 



6 eggs. 

J pint Momay sauce (No. 110). 

lemon-juice. 

Poach the eggs in salted, boihng water to which a little lemon-juice has been 
added. Lift them carefully when done with a slice, drain well, and place each egg 
on a round of buttered toast, which has been cut to the same size as the egg. Dress 
them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and brown crumbs, put a tiny bit of butter on each egg, and place the dish 
in a hot oven to brown the eggs. Serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,852. CEUFS POCHES AUX ASPERGES (POACHED EGGS WITH 

ASPARAGUS). 



6 eggs. I piat asparagus heads. 

J lb. short-pastry. i pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



I gill cream. 
1 oz. butter. 



Prepare the pastry, roll it out, and cut out six rounds large enough to line six 
patty-pans, fill them with raw rice, and bake a pale brown. When done, turn out 
the rice, and take the crusts out of the tins. Cook the asparagus heads. When 
tender, drain them, and put two-thirds of the amount through a sieve ; heat the 
Bechamel sauce, add to it half the cream and the asparagus puree ; keep hot. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the remaining one-third of the asparagus heads, 
toss them over the fire until hot, add the cream, season to taste ; put this mixture 
at the bottom of each tartlet-crust, and put them in a cool oven to keep hot. Poach 
the eggs in boiling, salted water for about three minutes ; when done, take them 
up, trim with a round cutter, drain well, place on a plate, and coat them with the 
prepared sauce. Place one of these coated eggs on each tartlet, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
July. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,853. CEUFS POCHES EN BERCEAU. 

1 lb. spinach. 1 tablespoonful cream. I cheese. 



6 new-laid eggs. 

3 large kidney potatoes. ^ oz. butter 



voloute sauce (No. 82). I salt and pepper. 



Scrub the potatoes so as to free them from every particle of dirt, dry and bake 
in the oven. When done, cut each potato in half lengthways, scoop out the inside. 
Cook the spinach in the usual way. When done, rub it through a fine sieve. Melt 
the butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach, season to taste with salt and pepper, 
add the cream, mix well over the fire. Now fine the potato shells with the spinach r 
keep them hot in the oven. Poach the eggs in boihng water seasoned with salt and 
lemon-juice. As soon as they are cooked, hft them carefully out of the water 
with a shce, let them drain, trim with an oval cutter, and place one carefully in each 
potato case. Coat the eggs with veloute sauce, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese, and put in a hot oven to brown. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, March to Decem- 
ber. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

35—2 



546 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,854. CEUFS POCHES A L'AURORE. 

6 eggs. I 1 gill veloute sauce (No. 82). | 1 giU tomato sauce (No. 77). | puff -paste trimmings. 

Roll out the puff-paste, cut out six oval pieces, put them on a baking-sheet, 
and bake a golden brown in a hot oven. Put the veloute and tomato sauces together 
in a saucepan, make hot, and mix thoroughly. Poach the eggs in salted, boiUng 
water for about three minutes. When cooked, take up with a slice, drain well, 
trim with an oval cutter, and place an egg on each, pour the sauce over, and serve 
quickly. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,855. CEUFS POCHES A LA COQUELIN (POACHED EGGS, COQUELIN 

STYLE). 

J lb. short pastry. \ gill Bechamel sauce. \ oz. butter. 

\ pint tomato sauce. 



6 eggs. 

3 large onions. 



a few tarragon leaves. salt and pepper. 

Peel the onions, boil them in water until soft, drain them, rub them through a hair 
sieve ; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sieved onions, stir over the fire for four 
or five minutes, then mix in the Bechamel sauce ; season to taste with salt and pepper, 
cook, and reduce a little longer ; keep hot until required. Roll out the pastry, stamp 
out some rounds with a cutter, and line six patty-pans, fill them with raw rice, and 
bake in a moderate oven until a pale brown. When done, take up the patties, turn out 
the rice carefully, take the crusts out of the tins, and keep hot. Poach the eggs in 
salted, boiling water ; when done, lift out of the water with a slice, allow them to drain, 
and trim neatly with a round cutter. Put a tablespoonful of the onion puree at 
the bottom of each pastry crust, place a poached egg on the top, coat them 
carefully with the tomato sauce, sprinkle a pinch of parsley on each. Dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,856. CEUFS POCHES A LA CLAMART (POACHED EGGS, CLAMART 

STYLE). 



6 eggs. 

\ lb. short pastry. 



2 gills cooked peas. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

\ oz. butter. \ pint veloute sauce (No. 82). 



salt, 
pepper. 



Cook the peas, put half of them after they have been strained through a fine 
sieve, heat the veloute sauce, stir the pea puree into it, season nicely with salt and 
pepper, and keep hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the other gill of peas, 
stir until quite hot, season with salt and pepper, and add the cream. Roll out 
the pastry, out out some rounds with a cutter, line six patty-pans with them, fill 
with raw rice, and bake a light brown. When done, take out the rice and remove 
the crusts from the tins, put a layer of the peas at the bottom of each crust. Poach 
the eggs, drain, and trim them with a round cutter ; place them in the crusts on the 
peas, coat them with the veloute sauce prepared as above ; sprinkle on them a 
pinch of chopped parsley. Dish up and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable, June to August 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,857. CEUFS POCHES A LA BOURGUIGNONNE (POACHED EGGS, BUR- 
GUNDY STYLE). 
6 eggs. I \ pint claret. | \ pint stock. | Bordelaise sauce (No. 11). | 6 oval croutes. 
Put the claret and stock into a frying-pan, bring to the boil, then poach the eggs 
in it. Cut some oval croutes of bread from a stale loaf about 1 inch thick, hollow 
out the centre, and fry them a golden brown in clarified fat. Arrange these on a 
hot dish, dress the eggs on them, and keep hot in a cool oven. Make the sauce, 



EGG DISHES 



547 



using the stock and wine that the eggs were poached in for the purpose, pour the 
sauce over the eggs, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,858. RISOTTO AUX CEUFS (RISOTTO WITH EGGS) 

1^ pints stock. 
2 ozs. butter, 
lemon-juice. 



6 new-laid eggs 
6 ozs. rice. 
i onion. 



^ gill tomato sauce. 
1 oz. Parmesan cheese, 
parsley. 



pepper, 
salt. 



Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop the onion, fry it in the butter without brown- 
ing, then add the rice, fry a little, then stir in the stock by degrees ; boil until the 
rice is tender and has absorbed the stock, then add the tomato sauce, the cheese, 
salt, and pepper ; stir over the fire a little longer until thoroughly mixed. Butter 
a flat cake-mould, turn the risotto into it, flatten it down, and keep hot until the 




Fig. 130. — Eisotto aux (Eufs. 



eggs are cooked. Have a frying-pan with sufficient boiUng water to cover the eggs, 
season it hghtly with salt, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, break the eggs one at a 
time into a cup, sHde them into the boiling water, and poach for about three to 
four minutes ; baste them \\'ith the boiling water. When done, Uft them up care* 
fully with a slice, let them drain, and then trim with a round cutter. Dress the 
eggs on the risotto in a circle, garnish with a Uttle parsley in the centre, and pour 
tomato sauce round the base, or it can be sent up separately. Serve hot for luncheon 
or breakfast. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,859. CEUFS P0CH£S A LA TOMATE (POACHED EGGS WITH TOMATO 

SAUCE). 

chopped parsley. 4 slices of buttered toast. 

3 ozs. spaghetti. 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 

1 oz. butter. I pepper. 

Make the buttered toast, and put in a cool oven to keep hot. Put the tomato 
sauce into a frjdng-pan, let it come to the boil, and then break in the eggs, taking 
care not to break the yolks. Poach them in the tomato sauce until the eggs are 
set. If the sauce does not cover the eggs, they must be basted with it. Take them 



4 new-laid eggs. 

f pint tomato sauce (No. 77). 

salt. 



548 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



out of the sauce and lay one on each piece of toast, dress them in a circle on a hot 
dish, pour the tomato sauce over them and round the dish. Have 2 ozs. of 
spaghetti ready boiled ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, put in the spaghetti, 
cheese, salt, and pepper, stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed and hot. Pile 
this into the centre of the dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top of each 
egg, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,860. COTELETTES DE JAMBON AUX CEUFS (HAM CUTLETS WITH 

EGGS). 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 dessertspoonful parsley. 



4 ozs. ham. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 gill milk. 
\ oz. flour. 



legg. 
pepper. 



breadcrumbs, 
fried parsley. 



Boil the eggs, put them in cold water. When cold, shell and chop them not too 
finely ; mince the ham finely and the parsley. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put 
in the flour, mix to a smooth paste, stir in the milk, and boil until the sauce is thick 
and leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. Add to this the chopped ham, eggs, 
and parsley ; mix all well together over the fire, and season with a Uttle pepper. 
Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When cold, divide it into six equal parts, 
shape each portion into the form of a cutlet, dip in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, 
lay them on a board or table, and shape them again with a dry knife. Fry the 
cutlets a golden broMoi colour in very hot fat, lift them out of the fat with a slice, 
and drain on paper. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a dish-paper arranged on 
a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve hot for luncheon or 
breakfast. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 cutlets. 



1,861. CEUFS AUX JAMBON (EGGS WITH HAM). 

4 new-laid eggs. 
4 ozs. cooked ham. 
egg and breadcrumbs. 



pepper. 
1 shallot, 
salt. 



1 teaspoon ful chopped 1 oz. butter. 

parsley. 1 oz. flour, 

fried parsley (No. 195). 1 gill stock. 

Boil the eggs for twelve to fifteen minutes, take them up and place in cold 
water. Mince the ham finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop the shallot, and 
fry it a golden colour in the butter, then add the flour, and mix into the butter to 
a smooth paste, pour in the stock, and stir until it is thick and leaves the sides of 
the stewpan. When the eggs are cold, shell them carefully, and cut each egg in 
half lengthways, take out the yolks without breaking the whites, pass the yolks 
through a sieve. Mix these with the chopped ham, and stir them into the prepared 
sauce ; add the chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill 
the halved whites of eggs with this mixture, shape them so that each one looks 
Uke a whole egg. Dip them in breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumb them 
twice. Fry in very hot fat a golden brown. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish- 
paper. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,862. CEUFS A LA GARFIELD (EGGS, GARFIELD STYLE). 



3 hard-boiled eggs. 
6 croutes of bread. 



chopped parsley, 
tomato sauce (No. 77). 



1 egg. 
vermicelli. 



1^ sausages. 

frying-fat. ^ .., 

Remove the shells from the eggs, wrap each egg in half a sausage, work it round 
the egg, so that it is entirely enveloped in the sausage. Beat up an egg on a plate, 
crush the vermicelli, put the coated eggs into the egg, then toss in vermiceUi, flatten 
the ends, and fry in boihng clarified fat. Cut out some small rounds of bread 
with a cutter, fry these a golden brown in very hot fat. When the eggs are fried, 



EGG DISHES 549 

take them up, drain on paper, cut each egg in half, stand these on the croutes, 
garnish the yolk with a little chopped parsley, dress on a hot dish and pour tomato 
sauce round. Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
March. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,863. CEUFS A LA GENOISE (GENOESE EGGS). 



2 ozs. rice. 

3 eggs. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 small onion. 



J tablespoonful chopped parsley, 
toasted bread. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Wash the rice, boil it in plenty of water seasoned with salt, until tender, drain 
it weU, put it under the tap, and let the water run on it. Shake well, spread 
it on a baking-sheet, and put in a cool oven to dry, turn it about occasionally 
with a fork. Boil the eggs for twelve to fifteen minutes, put them when cooked 
into cold water for a few minutes, then shell and chop them finely. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan, peel and chop the onion, and fry it in the butter until it begins to 
brown ; then add the chopped eggs and the rice, season with salt and pepper, mix 
well over the fire until very hot. Have ready some toasted bread, cut off the 
crust, butter lightly, and divide into squares ; pile the mixture neatly on to these, 
sprinkle over the chopped parsley. Dish up on a hot dish on a fancy paper, garnish 
with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. SuflS- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,864. EGG FRITTERS. 



4 eggs. 

1 oz. flour. 

1 oz. cooked ham. 



2 ozs. cooked chicken. 
1 tablespoonful milk, 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



legg. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 dessertspoonful salad oil. 
fried parsley (No. 195). 

Boil the eggs from twelve to fifteen minutes until quite hard, then cut them in 
halves lengthways, remove the yolks carefully so as not to break the whites. 
Mince the chicken and ham, put these with the hard-boiled yolks into a mortar, 
season with salt and pepper, pound well, then stir in the Bechamel sauce ; mix 
thoroughly. Fill the hollows of the whites with the pounded-yolk mixture, put 
two halves together, press firmly, cut them in quarters with a sharp knife. Sieve 
the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, add the yolk of the egg, the milk, salad 
oil, salt, and a Uttle pepper ; work in the flour, beat to a smooth batter, whip the 
white of the egg very stiffly, stir it into the batter hghtly just before frying. Heat 
the fat in a stewpan, and when smoking hot dip the eggs into the batter, drop 
them into the fat, and fry a golden colour ; drain them on paper, and dish on a 
napkin or paper arranged on a hot dish, and serve. 

N.B. — The eggs can be filled with any kind of cold meat. 

Average cost, 9d., exclusive of meat. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,865. CEUFS A L'lTALIENNE (EGGS, ITALIAN STYLE). 



4 eggs, 
milk. 



i pint Italian sauce (No. 41). 
1 dessertspoonful breadcrumos. 



2 anchovies. 1 shallot. salt. 

2 ozs. butter. chopped parsley. pepper. 

Boil the eggs from twelve to fifteen minutes, put them into a basin of cold water 
for a few minutes. Cut the eggs in halves, take out the yolks, taking care not to 
break the whites ; put the yolks into a mortar ; soak the breadcrumbs in a little 
milk ; add these to the yolks. Bone the anchovies, wash, dry, and cut them up 
?mall ; add them, with the butter, a little chopped parsley, and the minced shallot, 
to the other ingredients in the mortar, pound all well together, season to taste. 
Put the mixture into a saucepan, and cook over the fire to a thick paste, adding 
a little of the sauce, until of a right consistency. Place the whites of the eggs in 
a basin of boiling water to heat them. Warm up the sauce in a ste^vpan. When 



550 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

ready to serve, take the whites out of the hot water, dry quickly on a cloth, fill them 
with the prepared mixture, dish them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

1,866. CROMESQUIS AUX CEUFS (EGG KROMESKIES). 



IJ tablespoonfuls milk. 
1 tablespoonful oil. 
fried parsley (No. 195). 



3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce. frying -fat. 

2 raw yolks of eggs. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 2 ozs. flour. 

6 thin slices of bacon. I salt and pepper. 2 eggs. 

Shell the hard-boiled eggs, chop them finely, put them into a saucepan ; add 
the sauce, yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, and the chopped parsley. Mix all together 
over the fire, turn on to a plate, and let it get cold. Make the batter as follows : 
sieve the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, work in the yolks of two eggs, the 
milk, and oil ; beat until smooth, whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir 
them into the batter just before frying. Divide the egg mixture when cold into 
six portions, make them up into the shape of corks, roll each piece in a very thin 
slice of bacon. Heat the frying-fat in a stewpan, dip each kromeskie into the frying 
batter, take them up one at a time, and drop them into the frying-fat. As soon 
as they are a golden colour, take them out of the fat with a slice, drain on paper, 
and dish them on a hot dish in a pile, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,867. CEUFS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

6 eggs. I \ pint melted butter sauce (No. 43). salt. 1 shallot. 

\ lemon. | 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. pepper. 1 oz. butter. 

Boil the eggs hard, let them get cold, take oS the shells, and cut them in slices. 
Prepare the sauce, chop the shallot, melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot, 
and fry it without browning ; then add the sauce, the chopped parsley, pepper, and 
salt ; stir over the fire until hot, add the juice of the lemon. Arrange the slices of 
egg on a hot dish in a pile, pour the sauce over, put into the oven for three minutes 
to get quite hot, and serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 6 persons. 

1,868. CEUFS A LA LYONNAISE. 

6 eggs. I 2 oniona. | J pint stock. | 1 oz. butter. | salt. | pepper. | croiitons of fried bread. 

Boil the eggs hard. Peel and chop the onions finely. Melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the chopped onions, and fry brown ; add the stock, season with salt 
and pepper, simmer until reduced to a creamy consistency. Shell the eggs, take 
out the yolks, chop the whites, put these into the sauce, boil up, then dish on a hot 
dish, garnish with the yolks, and the croutons of fried bread. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,869. CEUFS AUX NOUILLES ET JAMBON (EGGS WITH NOUILLES 

AND HAM). 



6 eggs. 

I lb. nouille paste (No. 1727). 



\ gill Bechamel sauce. salt and pepper, 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. ham. 

Boil the eggs hard, shell them, cut in halves, and take out the yolks. Make 
i pound of nouille paste, cut it into fine strips, cook them, and let cool. Melt 1 oz. 
of butter in a stewpan, put in the strips of nouille paste, and toss over the fire 
until hot. Mince the ham very finely, put it into a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, 
the yolks of the eggs rubbed through a sieve, and the Bechamel sauce ; stir over 



EGG DISHES 551 

the fire until a stiff paste, season with salt and pepper. Warm the halved whites 
in boiling water. When ready to fill, take them out of the water, dry them on a 
cloth, and fill them with the above mixture. Turn the nouilles on to a hot dish, 
arrange them neatly, dress the stuffed eggs on the top, and serve as hot as possible. 
Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,870. COTELETTES AUX CEUFS (EGG CUTLETS). 



2 eggs. 
J oz. flour, 
salt. 



2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 
1 oz. breadcrumbs. 
^ oz. butter. 



J teaspoonful curry-powder, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



J gill water. 
1 raw yolk, 
pepper. 

Boil the eggs hard, put them into a basin of cold water, and let them get cold. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the flour, add the water, and mix to a thick 
sauce. Chop the eggs finely, put them into the sauce, grate the cheese, add it, also 
the breadcrumbs, curry-powder, salt, and pepper. Mix all well together, add the 
yolk, stir until mixed, then turn the mixture on to a plate. Divide into equal 
parts, shape each part into the form of a cutlet. Beat up an egg on a plate, put 
the cutlets into it, brush them over, lift into fresh breadcrumbs, coat them well, 
shape up again with a knife, and fry them a golden brown in very hot fat. When 
done, take up, drain well, dish them in a circle overlapping each other, fill the centre 
with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 cutlets. 

1,871. BONNES-BOUCHES AUX CEUFS. 



2 ozs. ham. 



1 shallot. I salt. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 raw yolks of eggs. 

chopped parsley. J lb. short or puflf paste. J gill cream. 1 oz. butter. | pepper. 

Roll out the pastry thinly, cut out some rounds with a cutter, and line some 
patty-pans with it. Chop the eggs, ham, and shallot finely ; melt the butter in a 
stewpan ; put in the chopped shallot, and fry until it just begins to brown. Then 
add the eggs and ham, mix all well together off the fire, add a little chopped parsley, 
the raw yolks of eggs, and the cream ; season to taste as soon as it is well mixed, 
fill up the patty-pans with it, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate 
oven. When done, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 patties. 



1,872. CEUFS FRITS A LA BONNE FEMME (FRIED EGGS A LA BONNE 

FEMME). 

4 hard-boiled eggs. I breadcrumbs. pepper. 1 raw egg. 

fried parsley (No. 195). | tomato sauce. salt. butter. 

Shell the hard-boiled eggs, cut each one in half, season them with salt and 
pepper. Beat up the raw egg on a plate, dip the halved eggs into it, toss in bread- 
crumbs ; do this a second time, then fry them in hot clarified butter until a golden 
brown ; drain well. Dish the eggs in a pile on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, 
garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Send a tureen of tomato sauce to table 
with them. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at aU times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



4 hard-boiled eggs. 
6 cup mushrooms. 



2 ozs. butter. 
2 shallots. 



chopped parsley, 
croutes of fried bread. 



1,873. CEUFS AUX CHAMPIGNONS (EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS). 

a few button mushrooms, 
brown sauce (No. 6). 

Shell the hard-boiled eggs, cut two of them into neat slices, remove the yolk 
from them, taking care not to break the rings of white of egg. Six rings should 
be cut from the two eggs. Rub the yolk that was taken from them through a wire 



552 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



sieve, and put aside for garnish. Peel and chop the shallots, fry them a golden 
brown in 1 oz. of butter, add a few button mushrooms chopped, the two remaining 
hard-boiled eggs chopped, and enough brown sauce to bind the mixture. Have 
ready six round croutes of fried bread, spread them rather thickly with this pre- 
paration. Peel the cup mushroom, and cook in the oven with a little butter on each. 
Warm up the rings of hard-boiled egg in hot water. Place a cup mushroom on each 
croute, and on that a ring of egg. Fill the cavity in three of the rings with sieved 
yolk of egg, and the other three with chopped parsley. Place in the oven for a few 
minutes to warm through. Dish them up, alternating the colours on a hot dish on 
a dish-paper. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 131. — Scotch Eggs. 



1,874. SCOTCH EGGS. 



4 eggs. 
watercress. 



2 pork sausages. 
chopped parsley. 



8 croutes of fried 
bread. 



egg and breadcrumbs, 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



Boil the eggs for twelve minutes, then take them up, and place them in a basin 
of cold water. Skin the sausages, and cut each one in half. Cut a round of bread 
^ inch thick, stamp eight croutes out with a round cutter 1 J inches across ; fry these 
a golden brown in hot fat ; take them up when done, drain on paper. As soon as 
the eggs are cool enough, shell them carefully, taking care not to break the eggs, and 
wrap each one in half a sausage ; work it evenly over the egg, so as not to have it 
thicker in one place than another, flatten the ends, so that they will be able to stand. 
Beat up an egg on a plate, put in the eggs and brush them all over with it, then 
roll in fresh breadcrumbs, shape nicely by roUing them on the table or board, drop 
them into very hot fat, and fry for about five minutes. They ought to be a 
pretty golden colour. Take them up with a sUce, drain on paper, cut each egg 
in half, put one haK-egg on each croute of fried bread, the cut side up ; sprinkle 
on the yolks a pinch of chopped parsley. Dish them on a bed of watercress, 
and serve for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. These eggs can be eaten either 
hot or cold. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



EGG DISHES 553 

1,875. FRICASSEE D'OEUFS (FRICASSEED EGGS). 

6 eggs. Ih gills Bechamel sauce (No. 4). I salt and pepper, 

fried bread croutons. l| ozs. Parmesan cheese. | 1 oz. butter. 

Boil the eggs for twelve to fifteen minutes, put them into a basin of cold water 
when done. Then take off the shells carefully, cut them in slices. Arrange these 
slices on a hot dish ; first put some sHces of egg, season them with salt and pepper, 
cover with a layer of the sauce previously made hot, sprinkle over a little cheese ; 
then arrange another layer of egg slices, season, and pour aver the sauce ; continue 
in this way until the eggs are used up ; over the last layer of eggs put a thick coating 
of sauce, sprinkle well with cheese, and put on the top the butter broken up into 
little bits. Place the dish in the oven, or under a salamander, to brown. Cut 
some pieces of bread in the shape of small triangles, fry these a golden brown in 
boiUng fat. Before sending to table, garnish the dish all round with these croutons. 
Serve very hot for luncheon or supper. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

1,876. CEUFS A LA REINE. 



6 eggs. J lb. cooked chicken. 



2 ozs. ham. 



croutons of fried bread. 



^ gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1 oz. butter. 
J gill cream. 

Mince the chicken and ham finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the 
minced chicken and ham, stir until hot, add the sauce, cream, salt, pepper, and 
chopped parsley. Mix well over the fire ; leave by the side of the fire until required. 
Cut some slices of fried bread in triangular shapes, and fry a golden brown. Put 
the eggs, which should be new laid, into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently 
for four minutes, then put them into cold water for a second, and take off the shells. 
Arrange the chicken preparation on a hot dish, place the eggs on it in a circle, garnish 
round the dish with the croutons of fried bread, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,877. CEUFS A LA TURQUE (EGGS, TURK STYLE). 

6 eggs. 6 chicken livers. J glass white wine. salt and pepper, 



2 shallots. 



chopped parsley. 



2^ ozs. butter. 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 

Wash the fivers, cut them in fine sHces. Put 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
chop the shallots, and when the butter is hot, fry the shallots a golden brown ; add 
the fivers, and cook very quickly over a fierce fire for a few minutes ; drain off the 
fat, and add the wine, reduce to one-third of the original quantity, stir in the gill 
of sauce, season with salt and pepper ; keep hot. Put 1^ ozs. of butter into a small 
frying-pan, make it hot, then break in the eggs ; season with salt and pepper, and 
stir them over the fire until they just begin to set. Remove from the fire, and dress 
the eggs on a hot dish in a circle, arrange the cooked livers in the centre, sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley over, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,878. CEUFS ET FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS (EGGS AND ARTICHOKE 

BOTTOMS). 



6 artichoke bottoms. I stale bread. 
3 eggs. I parsley. 



J pint demi -glace sauce 
(No. 29). 



salt, 
pepper. 



Boil the artichokes for half an hour, or the preserved ones can be used. Boil 
the eggs hard. Cut a slice or two of stale bread, with a round cutter stamp out six 
rounds, making them a size larger than the artichokes ; fry these in very hot fat a 
golden brown. When the artichokes are cooked, drain them, put one on each 
croute of bread ; season with salt and pepper. Cut the eggs in halves, stand a 



554 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

half-egg on each artichoke cut side down. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish- 
paper arranged on a hot dish, dress the artichokes and eggs on it, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with the sauce sent separately. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,879. COQUILLES D'CEUFS. 



1 gill breadcrumbs. 
J lb. minced ham. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ teaspoonful chopped 

parsley, 
brown breadcrumbs. 



i gill milk. 
6 eggs, 
parsley. 



salt. 

pepper. 

mustard. 



Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and make hot. Put the breadcrumbs 
into a basin, add the minced ham, season with salt, pepper, and a Httle dry mustard ; 
add the chopped parsley, pour the hot milk and butter over the ingredients in the 
basin, work to a smooth paste. Butter some shells, put a layer of this mixture at 
the bottom of each, break an egg carefully into each shell, sprinkle over some brown 
crumbs, put a small bit of butter on the top of each, and put the shells in the oven 
for about five minutes until the eggs are set. Arrange the shells on a dish, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year 

Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,880. CROOSTADE D'CEUFS A LA POLONAISE. 



\ lb. flour. 
I lb. butter. 



6 eggs. 

J gill cream. 



1 large cauUflower. parsley. 

salt. 



Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, and make into a paste with water. 
Roll out and hne a flan ring with it. Ornament the edges, fill with rice, and bake 
in a moderate oven. When done, take it out and remove the rice. Boil the cauU- 
flower in salted water, taking care that it is kept crisp. Take it up, drain well, 
and break into small pieces. Put them into a saucepan, and mix in a little Bechamel 
sauce. When hot, put it into the pastry, making a flat bed of it at the bottom of the 
case. Break the eggs on to the top of this, sprinkle with salt, and pour the cream 
over. Place in a hot oven to cook the eggs. When they are firm, take out of the 
oven, place the croustade on a hot dish, sprinkle a Httle chopped parsley on each egg, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, March to November. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.881. CEUFS A LA SUISSE. 

6 oggs. I i lb. Gruyere cheese. I 1 gill cream. I salt, 

dry toast. | IJ ozs. Parmesan cheese. \ \\ ozs. butter. | pepper. 

Spread the butter over a china fireproof dish ; cut the Gruyere cheese in very thin 
slices, arrange these in a layer over the butter, break the eggs over this, taking care 
not to break the yolks. Season with salt and pepper, pour the cream over, sprinkle 
on the top the grated Parmesan cheese, and put the dish in the oven for about eight 
or ten minutes. When ready to serve, garnish round the edge of the dish with 
sippets of toast. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. i 

1.882. CEUFS A LA TRIPE. 

4 eggB. I 1 gill onion sauce (No. 56). | \ gill cream. | chopped parsley. ; salt. | pepper. 

Boil the eggs hard, put them into cold water for a few minutes, then shell them 
and cut them in rather thick slices. Arrange these on a hot dish, sprinkle over 
some salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Warm up the sauce, add the cream, 
season to taste, and make quite hot without boiUng ; pour this over the eggs, 
sprinkle with parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 




(U 

«J 

E 
o 

h 

X 

D 
cd 

c 
o 

c 

DO 

o 
-o 

<-. 

-D 
O 




m^- 



EGG DISHES 555 



6 eggs. I IJ ozs. butter. 

^ gill cream. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 

1 shaUot. salad oil. 



1,883. CEUFS EN CAISSES. 

1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. cayenne. 
6 paper ramequin cases. pepper. 

Melt 1 OZ. of butter in a stewpan, chop the shallot, fry it in the butter a golden 
colour, then add to it the breadcrumbs, half the cheese, and a teaspoonful of parsley ; 
season with salt and cayenne. Oil the cases, put into each an equal portion of 
the above mixture ; divide the remainder of the butter into six parts, and put 
one part in each case. Break an egg into each, season with salt and pepper, pour 
the cream equally over the eggs, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about five minutes. When taken from the oven, sprinkle 
over a little chopped parsley, dish up, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,884. CROQUETTES AUX CEUFS (EGG CROQUETTES). 



6 eggs. 
1 shallot. 



Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 1 oz. butter. 
fried parsley (No. 195). breadcrumbs. 



2 ozs. ham. 
egg- 



salt, 
pepper. 



Boil the eggs hard, put them into cold water, shell and chop them finely, then 
rub them through a wire sieve. IVIince the ham, mix it with the eggs. Peel and 
chop the shallot, melt the butter in a ste^vpan, put in the chopped shallot, and fry 
it a Hght brown ; add to it the eggs and ham, mix together, season to taste, and bind 
with enough Bechamel sauce to make a stiff paste. Turn the mixture on to a 
plate to cool. When cold and set, divide the mixture into equal portions, take each 
part and make up to the shape of a cork. Beat up an egg on a plate, dip the 
croquettes into it, toss in breadcrumbs, shape them again, and fry in very hot fat 
a golden brown. When done, Hft them out of the fat, drain on paper, dish in a 
pyramid form on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 croquettes. 

1,885. CEUFS EN CASSEROLE (EGGS IN CASSEROLES). 
6 eggs. I 1 oz. butter. | ^ gill cream. | salt. | pepper. | chopped parsley. 

The little dishes required for these eggs are small fireproof pans, hke a little 
saucepan with a handle. Warm the Uttle pans, butter them, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, break an egg carefully into each pan, season with salt and pepper, pour 
over a little cream. Put them into a baking-tin containing a little boiling water, 
put into the oven and cook until the whites are set. Take them out of the oven 
when done, wipe the pans, and dish them on a napkin or fancy dish-paper. Serve 
at once. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,886. GEUFS EN CASSEROLE A LA JEANNE. 
6 eggs. I J lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 202). | 1 tablespoonful cream. | 1 oz. butter. 

Make the chicken forcemeat ; mix in the cream. Warm the fittle pans in the 
oven, butter them, and Line all over with the forcemeat — this should be J inch 
thick — break an egg into each case, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and steam in 
the oven in a tin containing a Uttle boihng water ; cover the eggs with a piece of 
greased paper, cook until the whites are just set. Wipe the Uttle pans, dish them 
on a napkin or fancy paper, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at aU times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



556 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



4 eggs. I 6 mushrooms, 

breadcrumbs. I 1 egg. 



1,887. RISSOLES D'CEUFS (EGG RISSOLES). 

J gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | h oz. butter. I salt, 
puff-paste trimmings. j fried parsley. I pepper. 

Boil the eggs hard, shell them, and chop finely. Peel the mushrooms, wash, 
dry, and chop. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the mushrooms as soon 
as the butter is hot, and cook slowly for ten minutes, then add the eggs, mix together, 
stir in the Bechamel sauce, and season to taste. Turn on to a plate to cool. Roll 
out the puff-paste (if puff-pastry has been used for other things the trimmings will 
come in nicely for this dish) about \ inch thick, cut from it some rounds 2| inches 
across with a fancy cutter. Place a little of the preparation in the centre of the 
rounds, dip the fingers or a pastry brush in cold water, and moisten very lightly all 
round the edge of the paste, fold over in half, enclosing the mixture, press the edges 
together to join them. When all are made, break an egg on to a plate, beat it up 
lightly, dip the rissoles into it, toss them in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown 
in very hot fat. Lift them out when done, drain on paper. Arrange the rissoles 
on a folded napkin or fancy paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 10 rissoles. 

1,888. CEUFS EN CASSEROLE AUX EPINARDS. 



6 eggs. 

1 lb. spinach. 



1^ ozs. butter. salt and pepper. 

1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



\ gill cream. 

Boil the spinach, strain and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in 
a stewpan, put in the spinach, and stir over the fire until hot. Warm the httle 
pans, butter them, and line them with the spinach, which should be ^ inch thick. 
Break an egg into each pan, cover with cream, sprinkle a httle grated cheese over 
the top, season with a pinch of salt and a tiny dust of cayenne, and steam in the 
oven until set. Dish up on a napkin or fancy dish-paper, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
December. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.889. CEUFS EN CASSEROLE A LA MORNAY (EGGS IN CASSEROLE A LA 

MORNAY). 
6 eggs. I 1 J gills Momay sauce (No. 110). | salt. | pepper. | 1 oz. cheese. | 1^ ozs. butter. 

Warm and butter six httle pans, put a layer of Mornay sauce at the bottom of 
each, break an egg into each pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, fill up with Mornay 
sauce ; put this on the egg carefully, so as not to break the yolk ; sprinkle over 
the grated cheese ; put a small piece of butter on each ; steam in the oven for a few 
minutes until the eggs are just set ; then brown them quickly under a salamander 
or in front of the fire. Dish up on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and serve 
at once. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1.890. CEUFS EN CASSEROLE AUX CHAMPIGNONS (EGGS IN CASSEROLES 

WITH MUSHROOMS). 



6 eggs. 



\ gill cream. 



salt, 
pepper. 



12 medium-sized mushrooms. 
1^ ozs. butter. brown breadcrumbs. chopped parsley. 

Butter a baking-tin ; wash, peel, and dry the mushrooms, put them on the 
buttered tin, sprinkle over them a Httle salt and pepper, place in the oven, and cook 
for about five minutes. When done, put six on one side, cut the remainder in strips ; 
mix a Httle cream and chopped parsley with them. Warm and butter the pans, 
divide the mushroom mixture equally between them, break an egg into each casserole, 



EGG DISHES 557 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over them the remains of the cream, place 
a mushroom on the top of each, sprinkle with brown breadcrumbs, put a tiny bit 
of butter on each, and steam in the oven for a few minutes. Dish up and serve very 
hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,891. CEUFS A LA FLORENTINE. 

1 lb. spinach. 1 6 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful grated cheese. 

1 oz. butter. | salt and pepper. Momay sauce (Np. 110). 

Cook the spinach, drain and rub through a sieve ; melt the butter in a stewpan, 
put in the spinach, and stir over the fire until hot ; season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Cover the bottom of a fireproof dish with the spinach, sprinkle the cheese 
over it. Break the eggs upon the spinach, dust with salt and pepper, coat the 
eggs with Momay sauce. Place the dish in a hot oven until the eggs are cooked. 
Serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to Decem- 
ber. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

. 1,892. CEUFS AU GRATIN. 

6 eggs. I J piat Momay sauce (No. 110). | grated cheese. | brown breadcrumbs. | 1 oz. butter. 

Butter a china fireproof dish, put a layer of Mornay sauce on it ; break the eggs 
on the sauce, cover with Mornay sauce, sprinkle over some grated cheese and brown 
breadcrumbs ; put a few bits of butter here and there, and bake in a hot oven to 
cook the eggs and form the gratin. Serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,893. CEUFS A LA PARISIENNE (EGGS, PARISIAN STYLE). 
6 eggs. I meat-glaze. | chopped ham. | salt. | pepper. | toast. | butter. 

Warm some half -glaze ; take six small dariole -moulds, pour the glaze into them, 
and coat all over. Mince the ham very finely, sprinkle it all over the httle moulds, 
so that it sticks to the glaze. Now break an egg into each mould, taking care not 
to break the yolk ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with a buttered paper, and 
steam in a saucepan or in the oven for a few minutes until the eggs are set. Make 
some toast, butter it lightly, cut into rounds a size larger than the moulds. Turn 
out an egg on each round of toast. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,894. CEUFS A LA MORTEMART (MOULDED EGGS A LA MORTEMART). 



4 eggs. I J lb. short or puff pastry. 
1 truffle. 12 fresh mushrooms. 



2 ozs. butter. 
^ gill cream. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Roll out the pastry on a floured board,then take a round cutter, about 2 to 2i inches 
across, and stamp out some rounds of pastry ; with these Une six or eight patty-pans, 
fill them with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven until a pale colour. Then take 
them up, remove the rice, and take the pastry crusts out of the tins. Peel, wash, 
and dry the mushrooms, chop them finely ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in 
the chopped mushrooms, and stir them over the fire until they are cooked and 
their moisture has evaporated ; add the cream, and season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan, break in three of the 
eggs, scramble them over the fire — they must not be done too much — season with 
salt and pepper. Beat up the remaining egg, and add it to the scrambled eggs ; 
mix together off the fire. Butter some little timbale-moulds, place a sHce of truffle 



558 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



at the bottom of each, fill them with the egg mixture, steam them for a few minutes. 
FiU the pastry cases with the prepared mushrooms. As soon as the eggs are done, 
turn them out, one on the top of each pastry case. Dress the eggs in a circle on 
a hot dish, and serve hot for breakfast or luncheon (see coloured plate). 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



1,895. GEUFS A LA PRINCESSE (EGGS, PRINCESS STYLE). 

6 new-laid eggs. anchovy paste, salt and pepper. 

6 croutes of fried bread. chopped parsley. butter. 

Butter some small timbale -moulds, break an egg carefully into each tin, sprinkle 
a little salt and pepper over them, cover with buttered paper, and steam in a saucepan 
until the eggs are just set. To do this, put a Uttle water into the saucepan, so that it 
comes up about a quarter of the height of the Httle tins, and put the hd on the pan. 
The eggs will take about four or five minutes to cook. Have ready fried some round 
croutes of bread, a size larger than the top of the Uttle tins that the eggs are cooked in. 




Fig. 132. — CEufs A. la Princbsse. 



When these are fried, put over them a layer of anchovy paste, turn an egg out of the 
tin on to each croute, sprinkle on the top a little chopped parsley, garnish the dish 
with parsley, and serve at once. Suitable for breakfast. If anchovy paste is not 
Uked, a slice of grilled ham or bacon can be used instead. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



6 new-laid eggs. 

fried croutons of bread. 



1,896. CEUFS MOLLETS A LA BECHAMEL (SOFT-BOILED EGGS WITH 

BECHAMEL). 

J pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 
salt and pepper. 

Cook the eggs in boihng water for four to five minutes. Shell them carefully. 
Have ready fried some croutons of bread \ inch thick, the centre of which has been 
scooped out ; dress the eggs on these. Dish them, and pour the hot Bechamel 
sauce over. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 








O 

a 



1^ 



sacau 



EGG DISHES 



559 



1,897. CEUFS A LA PRINTANIER (MOULDED EGGS WITH 

VEGETABLES). 



6 new-laid eggs. 

IJ ozs. butter. 

6 croGtes of bread. 



i pint mixed vegetables — 
i.e., carrots, peas, beans, 
turnips. 



lemon-juice. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 gill veloute sauce. 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
tarragon, and chervil. 

Scoop out the carrots and turnips with a round vegetable scoop, the same size 
as a pea ; cut tlie beans in dice, cook all these vegetables separately in salted, boiling 
water. As soon as they are cooked, drain and let them get cold. Butter six dariole- 
moulds, and then cover them all over with the cooked vegetables, arranging them 
in rows, and varying the colours. Break an egg carefully into each mould, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, cover them with a buttered paper, and steam them in a sauce- 
pan for about five minutes. When cooked, turn them out on to the fried croutes 
of bread. Have the sauce ready heated in a saucepan ; mix the chopped herbs with 
1 oz. of butter, salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Put this butter by 
degrees into the sauce ; it must not be put in all at once, or the sauce will oil. Pour 
the sauce into the centre of the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes, 
months. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



Seasonable in summer 



1,898. CEUFS A L'ECARLATE (MOULDED EGGS WITH TONGUE). 



6 eggs. 
1 truffle. 



2 ozs. chopped tongue, 
puff-paste trimmings. 



2 ozs. cooked macaroni. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ gill cream, 
salt. 



Butter some little dariole-moulds ; cut the truffle in shces ; stamp out a star for 
each mould, place them at the bottom of moulds ; chop the tongue very finely, 
sprinkle it all over the moulds. When this is set, break an egg carefully into each 
dariole, taking care not to break the yolk ; put them into a saucepan, containing a 
little boiling water, cover the moulds with a buttered paper, and steam for about 
five minutes, until the eggs are just set. Have ready cooked the macaroni, drain 
well, turn it on to a board, and cut it into inch lengths ; melt the butter in a ste^\^an, 
put in the macaroni, make hot, season to taste with salt and pepper ; mix in the 
cream. Roll out the pastry (trimmings of puff -pastry left from another dish can 
be used for this purpose, or a little short paste can be made), Une some patty-pans 
with it, fill with raw rice, and cook in the oven until a pale colour. When done, 
^urn out the rice and remove the crusts from the tins, fill them with the macaroni 
mixture. Have these ready by the time the eggs are cooked. Take up the eggs 
when done, turn them out on to the tartlets of macaroni, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,899. CEUFS A LA BORDELAISE. 



6 new-laid eggs. 
3 tomatoes. 



pmt Bordelaise sauce (No. 11). 



beef marrow. 
1 oz. butter. 



salt. 
pepper. 



chopped parsley. 

Cut each tomato in half, squeeze out the seeds, season with salt and pepper. 
Spread the butter on a baking-sheet, put a small piece of butter on each tomato, 
put them on the baking-sheet, and place in the oven for about ten minutes. Poach 
the eggs in boiling, salted water ; drain and trim them with a round cutter. When 
the tomatoes are ready, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; place a poached egg 
on each. Heat the sauce, reduce and pour it over the eggs. Have ready the cooked 
beef marrow, put a slice on each egg ; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

PT. VIII. 36 



560 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,900. CEUFS A LA COMTESSE (EGGS, COUNTESS STYLE). 

6 new-laid eggs. | stale bread. | | pint Hollandaise sauce (No. 101). | chopped parsley. | paprika. 

Poach the eggs in salted, boiling water. When the eggs are cooked, take them up, 
drain and trim with a round cutter. Stamp out some rounds of stale bread, fry them 
in very hot fat until a golden brown colour. Place an egg on each croute, heat the 
sauce, arrange the eggs in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce over the eggs, garnish 
the eggs alternately with chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

COLD EGGS 

1,901. CEUFS CHAUDFROID A L'ANDALOUSE (COLD EGGS, ANDALOUSE 

STYLE). 

6 eggs. I 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 77). 6 anchovies. salt, 

aspic jelly. ' \ gill Soubise sauce (No. 75). small salad. pepper. 

Poach the eggs in salted, boiling water. When done, drain them well, trim with 
a round cutter, put on a plate, and let them get quite cold. Mix the two sauces 
together, stir into them 1 gill of aspic jelly, coat the eggs with this sauce, just as it 
is beginning to set. Bone and wash the anchovies, cut them in very fine strips, and 
garnish each egg with them in lattice fashion. Take six tartlet-moulds, oil them 
lightly ; mix into some aspic jelly sufficient tomato sauce to colour and flavour, 
fill the tartlet-moulds with this, put them on ice, and let set. Turn out these moulds ; 
when set, arrange them in a circle on a cold dish, place one of the prepared eggs 
on each, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and small salad, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Cd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



6 eggs, 
parsley. 
1 truffle. 



1,902. CEUFS EN CHAUDFROID. 

oil. 



1 gill pink chaudfroid sauce 

(No. 128). 
1 lettuce. 



1 gill white chaudfroid sauce 

(No. 124). vinegar, 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 1 slice ham. 

Poach the eggs in boiled, salted water in the usual way ; take them up, trim 
Tvith a round cutter, and put aside until perfectly cold. Fill a plain cake-tin or 
round mould with aspic jelly 1^ inches deep ; put this away to set. When the 
eggs are cold, coat three of them with white chaudfroid sauce and three with pink, 
giving them one or two coatings, to insure a good appearance. When firm, decorate 
the white ones with ham cut in fancy patterns, and the pink ones with truffle 
cut in the same manner. Glaze them over with haK-set aspic jelly. Turn the 
aspic shape out on to a cold dish, arrange the eggs in a circle on it, alternating 
the colours. Wash the lettuce, dry and break into pieces, season with oil and vinegar, 
and place in the centre of the circle of eggs. Garnish round the dish with chopped 
aspic jelly and the heart of the lettuce. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

1,903. GEUFS CHAUDFROID A LA CHARTREUSE. 

6 eggs. white of egg. macedoine of vegetables. oil. 

carrot. salt and pepper. aspic jelly (No. 251). vinegar. 

Poach the eggs, drain, and trim them with a cutter into an oval shape ; let them 
•get quite cold. Line some small oval moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly ; 
put on ice to set. Cut off the red part from a carrot in thin strips, cook them in 
boiling water until tender, drain and divide them into small squares. Cut a 
hard-boiled wliite of egg in the same way, the same size and shape as the carrot ; 



) 



EGG DISHES 561 

fix these into the moulds, alternately placing them so as to represent a chessboard ; 
set these pieces in with a httle liquid jelly sprinkled over. Place a poached egg in 
each mould, and fill them up with liquid jelly. Put on ice. Mix the mace- 
doine of vegetables — i.e., mixed vegetables — with salt, pepper, a little oil, and 
vinegar ; mix all well together, arrange this salad in the centre of a dish ; dip the 
little moulds in warm water, turn them out, and place them standing round the 
salad. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable till the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,904. CEUFS CHAUDFROID A LA TRIANON. 



G eggs. 

J pint white chaudfroid 
sauce (No. 124). 



2 ozs. cooked spinach. 
1 teaspoonful anchovy 
essence. 



lettuces. 

truffle. 

che^^-ih 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
hard-l)oilcd whitu of egg. 
aspic jelly (No. 251). 



Poach the eggs in salted water seasoned with a few drops of lemon-juice. When 
done, take them up, drain and trim neatly ; put them on a dish and let them get 
cold. Warm up the sauce, divide it into three eCi[ual parts, leave one part white ; 
mix the cooked spinach into the second part, and rub it through a fine sieve ; the 
third part colour and flavour with anchovy essence. Now coat the eggs with the 
three dififerent coloured sauces, doing two w^hite, two green, two red. Decorate 
the white with small sprigs of chervil, the red with stars of truffle, and the green 
with stars of hard-boiled white of egg. Cut up the lettuces, mix with mayonnaise 
sauce, pile this in the centre of a dish. Mask the eggs with half-set aspic jelly, so as 
to make them glossy. When these are set, dish them up, leaning against the salad, 
arranging the colours alternately. Garnish the dish with chopped aspic jelly and 
sprigs of fresh parsley. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficioiit 
for 6 persons. 

1,905. CEUFS CHAUDFROID A L'ARGENTEUIL (COLD EGGS WITH 

ASPARAGUS). 

6 eggs. I 1 medium -sized bimdle of asparagus. I aspic jelly. I 6 slices of ham. oil. 
chervil. I 1 gill white chaudfroid sauce (No. 124). | 2 lettuces. | salt and pepper, vinegar. 

Poach the eggs in salted water seasoned with lemon-juice. When done, drain 
and trim, place them on a dish, and let them get quite cold. Prepare the asparagus, 
tie it in bundles, cut the stalks all the same length, put them in boiling water, add a 
pinch of salt, and boil until tender ; put some of the asparagus heads through a 
fine hair-sieve, sufficient to measure | gill. Mix this puree with the chaudfroid 
sauce, strain, and let it get cold but not set. Coat the eggs with this sauce, decorate 
each with a small sprig of chervil, mask with half -set aspic until the eggs are glossy. 
Cut the slices of ham into rounds the same size as the eggs. Place an egg on each 
round of ham. W^ith the remainder of the asparagus prepare a salad as follows : 
Cut off the asparagus tops, mix with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and sa,lt. I)rer>s 
the salad in the centre of a dish, arrange the eggs round the asparagus, garnish 
the dish with the hearts of the lettuces cut in quarters, and chopped aspic jelly. 
Se'fve cold. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, February to July. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,906. CEUFS CHAUDFROID A LA RUSSE (COLD EGGS, RUSSIAN STYLE). 

salad. I aspic jelly. 

caviare. I putT-paste trimmings. 



G eggs, j ^ pint white chaudfroid 
truffle. I sauce (No. 124). 



Poach the eggs in salted water containing a few drops of lemon-juice, take them 
up carefully when done, drain thoroughly, and let them get cold. Prepare the 
sauce, let it get cold, but not set ; then coat the eggs wdth it ; do this several times, 

36—2 



562 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

until the eggs are thoroughly coated. Cut a truffle in shoes, stamp out some round 
fancy-shapes with a round cutter, place one on each egg. Mask them with half -set 
aspic jelly, so that they are well coated. When the eggs are thoroughly set, hft 
them up %vith a knife, trim them neatly round the edge with a cutter. Koll out 
the puff-paste, line some patty-pans with it, fill them with rice, and bake a pale 
colour. When done, turn out the rice, take the pastry crusts out of the tins, and 
let them get cold ; place in each tartlet a prepared egg. Put a border of caviare 
round each egg, dish them in a circle on an entree-dish ; place some salad in the centre 
of the dish, garnish round with chopped aspic, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 J hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
^or 6 persons. 

1,907. CEUFS FARCIS A L'ANCHOIS. 

8 hard-boiled eggs. | 8 anchovies. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. | watercress. 

Shell the eggs, cut ea,ch one in half crossways, take out the yolks carefully, 
so as not to break the whites. Put the yolks into a mortar ; scrape the anchovies, 
take out the backbone, and chop them ; put them into a mortar with the yolks of 
eggs and the butter, pound all well together to a smooth paste, rub the mixture 
through a fine wire sieve. Stuff the halves of the eggs with this mixture, press the 
two halves of eggs together, cut the end of each so as to make them stand. Dish 
them standing up in a circle on a dish, fill the centre with well-washed watercress, 
and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

1,908. CEUFS EN ASPIC (EGGS IN ASPIC). 

4 eggs. I aspic jelly. | parsley. 

Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, then put them into cold water, and let them 
get quite cold. Line eight small dariole -moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, 
and let this set. Shell the eggs and cut them in slices ; place a slice at the bottom 
of each mould ; put a few drops of aspic jelly over. When firm, pour in some more 
jelly, arrange in the moulds slices of egg, leaning against the sides, fill up with jelly 
and put on ice. When quite firm, dip each mould in warm water, turn out on to a 
dish in a circle, garnish with chopped aspic and sprigs of crisp parsley. Serve 
cold. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable at- all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

1,909. CEUFS CHAUDFROID COLINETTE (COLD EGGS, COLINETTE STYLE). 



6 eggs. hard-boiled white of egg. 
truffle. 



lettuces. 
oil. 



vinegar, 
salt. 



aspic jelly. 

Poach the eggs in salted acidulated water. When done, drain, and trim with a 
cutter into an oval shape, let them get quite cold. Line some small oval moulds 
with a thin coating of aspic jelly ; put on ice to set. Cut the truffle in shces, and 
then into fancy shapes. The white of the hard-boiled egg is treated in the same way. 
Fix these into the moulds in a pretty pattern, use a Httle parsley also in the decora- 
tion, set these pieces in with a httle liquid jelly sprinkled over. When this is set, 
place a poached egg in each mould, and fill them up with Uquid jelly. Put on ice 
to get quite firm. Make a salad \Wth the lettuces, oil, vinegar, and a Httle salt. 
Arrange this in the centre of a dish, dip the little moulds in warm water, turn them 
out, and place them leaning against the salad. Garnish the dish with chopped 
aspic jelly, and serve (see coloured plate). 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




o 

-o 

D 

O 

c 



B 



CO 

c 
_o 



EGG DISHES 



563 



OMELETTES (OMELETS) 

RULES FOR MAKING OMELETS. 

1. An omelet-pan should be used for making omelets, kept for that purpose 
alone, and not used for other things. 

2. The omelet-pan should not be washed, but after use rubbed with a cloth or 
piece of soft paper. If the pan is washed, the next omelet made in it will stick 
and its appearance be spoilt. 

3. The eggs should be well beaten with a fork, but not allowed to get frothy, 
the whites and yolks being well mixed. 

4. The butter used for making the omelet should be clarified and well heated 
before the eggs are added. 

5. The cooking of the omelet should be done quickly over a good fire. 

TO SHAPE AN OMELET. 

After the eggs are added to the hot butter, stir them with a spoon in the centre 
for a second or two ; then, as soon as it is lightly set round the edge of the pan, 
roll it towards the handle of the pan to an oval shape, turn it lightly over, take it 
oil the fire, and transfer at once to a hot dish. Serve quickly. 




Fig. 133. — Omelette aux Fines Herees. 



1,910. OMELETTE AUX FINES HERBES (SAVOURY OMELET). 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. I salt. 

^ oz. butter. 1 leaf of tarragon. I pepper. 

Chop the parsley and tarragon finely. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them 
with a fork until well mixed, stir in the chopped herbs, season with salt and pepper. 
Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, make it very hot, and then pour in the eggs ; 
stir in the centre with a spoon until the mixture begins to set, then roll towards 
the handle of the pan, shape it to an oval form, turn it lightly over, and remove 
at once from the fire. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 5d. or 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 



564 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,911. OMELETTE NATURELLE (PLAIN OMELET). 
2 eggs. I ^ oz. butter. | salt. | pepper. 
Beat the eggs in a basin until well mixed ; add a little salt and pepper, 
the butter in an ome]et-pan, pour in the eggs when hot, and cook as directed. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 5 minutes. Seasonable at all times, 
cient for 1 person. 



Melt 



Suffi- 



1,912. OMELETTE AU PARMESAN (CHEESE OMELET). 



3 eggs. 

i 0z. butter. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). 
cayenne. 



salt 
pejoper. 



1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
1 tablespoonful cream. 

Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork, grate the cheese, stir it into the eggs, add 
the cream ; season with a tiny pinch of salt, a little white pepper, and a grain or 
two of cayenne. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, let it get quite hot, take off 
the froth, pour in the eggs ; stir it in the centre with a spoon until the eggs begin 
to set. then quickly roll it towards the handle of the pan, shape into an oval form ; 
turn it on to a hot dish, pour a little tomato sauce round, and serve quickly. 

_ Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 




Fig. 134. — Pbtites Omelettes a l'Ecarlate. 



1,913. PETITES OMELETTES A L'ECARLATE (LITTLE OMELETS 

WITH TONGUE). 



4 eggs. 

1 oz. butter. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). 
1 tablespoonful cream. 



salt. 
pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped tongue. 

Beat the eggs in a basin, add to them the chopped parsley and tongue, season 
with salt and pepper, and stir in the cream. Divide the butter into four parts. 
Melt one part in an omelet-pan, make it very hot ; pour in one-quarter of the egg 
mixture, and make an omelet with it. Continue in this way until the whole of the 
mixture is used up and four omelets have been made. Arrange them on a hot 
dish, straight down the centre, overlapping each other ; pour a little tomato sauce 
round, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 2 persons. 



EGG DISHES 565 

1,914. OMELETTE AUX CHAMPIGNONS (OMELET WITH MUSHROOMS). 



3 eggs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



6 fresh mushrooms. 
J oz. butter. demi -glaze sauce (No. 29). 

Peel, wash, and dry the mushrooms ; chop three very finely ; place the other 
three on a buttered baking-sheet and cook in the oven ; keep hot until the omelet 
is ready. Beat the eggs in a basin ; season with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in 
an omelet-pan ; when hot, put in the chopped mushrooms and cook them ; then 
add the eggs, stir with a spoon until the eggs begin to set, then roll quickly towards 
the handle of the pan, shaping it into an oval shape. Turn it on to a hot dish, 
pour some demi-glaze round, and place the three cooked mushrooms on the omelet. 
Serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 

1,915. OMELETTE A LA PAYSANNE. 

4 eggs. 1 tablespoonful potato dice. I pinch of chervil. 

1 oz. butter. ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. | salt. 

1 oz. bacon. tomato sauce (No. 77). 1 pepper. 

Cut the bacon into small dice. Boil a potato, cut it into squares the same size 
as the bacon. Beat the eggs in a basin, add the chopped parsley and chervil to 
them, season to taste with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; 
as soon as it is hot, put in the bacon and fry it until cooked, add the potato, cook a 
little longer, then pour in the eggs ; stir with a spoon over the fire until the eggs 
begin to set, then roU towards the handle of the pan into an oval shape, turn it 
quickly over, take it off the fire, and turn the omelet on to a hot dish. Pour a 
little tomato sauce round the omelet, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,916. OMELETTE A LA PROVENgALE. 

4 eggs. 1 h teaspoonful chopped parsley. 2 tablespoonfuls salad-oil or salt. 

1 tomato. I clove of garUc. 1 oz. butter. pepper. 

Soak the tomato in boiling water for a minute or two, then peel it, cut it in 
half, press out the seeds, and cut the tomato in dice. Beat the eggs in a basin, 
season with salt and pepper, add the chopped parsley. Rub the bottom of an 
omelet-pan with the clove of garlic, put in the oil, and make it hot. As soon as it 
smokes, put in the tomato dice, cook quickly over the fire, stirring it meanwhile ; 
add the egg mixture, stir it until the eggs begin to set, then roll towards the handle 
of the pan into an oval shape ; toss it over quickly, and turn on to a hot dish. 
Serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,917. OMELETTE AUX ROGNONS (KIDNEY OMELET). 



4 eggs. 2 small sheep's kidneys. 

1 oz. butter. 



1 shallot. 



i gill brown sauce (No. G). salt and pepper. 

Skin the kidneys, slice them finely, season them with salt and pepper. Melt 
J oz. of butter in a small stewpan, add the sliced kidneys and the chopped shallot, 
fry quickly over a brisk fire for a few minutes ; then add the brown sauce and cook 
a little longer ; season to taste. Melt i oz. of butter in an omelet-pan ; beat the 
eggs, season with salt and pepper, add them to the hot butter, and stir until just 
beginning to set ; then put the kidney stew in the centre of the omelet, roll into an 
oval shape, turn it quickly, place on a dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



566 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,918. OMELETTE AUX HUlTRES (OYSTER OMELET). 

4 eggs. 6 oysters. salt. 

1 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful milk or cream. pepper. 

Put the oysters in a small stewpan with their own liquor, bring them to the 
boil ; then remove from the fire, drain, and take off the beards ; cut the oysters in 
dice. Beat the eggs in a basin just sufficiently to mix the whites and yolks, season 
with salt and pepper, add the oysters, and stir in the milk or cream. Melt the butter 
in an omelet-pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the egg mixture, stir until it begins 
to set round the edge of the pan. Roll up quickly to the shape of an oval, colour 
lightly, turn on to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,919. OMELETTE AUX SARDINES (SARDINE OMELET). 

4 eggs. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. salt. 

4 sardines. 1 oz. butter. pepper. 

Scrape the sardines so as to remove the scales, slit them down lengthways, and 
remove the backbone ; cut the sardines into small dice. Beat the eggs in a basin, 
Beason with salt and pepper, and add to them the dice of sardines and the anchovy 
essence ; mix all together. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; when hot, pour in 
the egg mixture, stir with a spoon until the eggs begin to set, then roll quickly 
into an oval shape, colour lightly, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,920. OMELETTE AU JAMBON (HAM OMELET). 
4 eggs. I 1 oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful milk or cream. | 1^ ozs. lean cooked ham. | pepper. 

Cut the ham into small dice. Beat the eggs in a basin, season with a pinch of 
pepper, add the dice of ham and the milk or cream ; mix all well together. Melt 
the butter in an omelet-pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the egg mixture. When it 
begins to set, roll quickly towards the handle of the pan into an oval shape, let it 
colour lightly, turn on to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,921. OMELETTE A LA BORDELAISE. 

4 eggs. j beef marrow. chopped parsley. 

1 oz. butter. I Madere sauce (No. 50). pepper and salt. 

Take out the marrow from half a marrow bone, cut it in slices, and blanch it ; 
put it in a stewpan, and just cover with Madeira sauce ; keep hot. Beat the eggs 
in a basin, season with salt and pepper, add a little chopped parsley. Melt 1 oz. 
of butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the eggs as soon as the butter is hot. When the 
eggs begin to set, put the marrow in the centre, fold over, and roll the mixture 
quickly to an oval shape. Turn on to a hot dish, pour a little Madeira sauce round 
the dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



1,922. OMELETTE A L'INDIENNE (CURRY OMELET). 

^ dessertspoonful curry-powder. 1 tablespoonful melted-buttor 

salt. sauce (No. 43). 

\ gill curry sauce (No. 23). boiled rice (No. 1,039). 

Peel the onion, chop it finely ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the 
onion, and fry it a golden brown ; add the curry-powder, stir over the fire for a 



4 eggs. 

1 small onion. 

2 ozs. butter. 



EGG DISHES 567 

minute or two, then add the melted butter sauce ; cook for a few minutes. Beat 
the eggs in a basin, season them with salt and pepper. Melt the renaaining 1 oz. of 
butter in an omelet-pan, and, when hot, pour in the eggs. As soon as they begin to 
set, put the curry mixture in the centre, fold over, and roll into an oval shape. 
Let it lightly colour. Have ready some boiled rice, make a bed of it on a hot dish ; 
turn the omelet out on the top of the rice, pour some curry sauce round, and serve 
quickly. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,923. OMELETTE A LA FERMIERE. 
3 eggs. I 1 oz. ham. | chopped parsley. | pepper. | J oz. butter. 

Cut the ham, which should be cooked and lean, into dice. Beat the eggs in a 
basin with a fork until the yolks and whites are well mixed, stir in the ham, add a 
little pepper. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan and, as soon as it is very hot, pour 
in the eggs ; stir in the centre with a spoon until the omelet begins to set, then roll 
quickly towards the handle of the pan to an oval shape ; turn it over quickly, dish 
it, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley over. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 



3 eggs. 
1 leek. 



1,924. OMELETTE AUX POIREAUX (LEEK OMELET). 

J oz. butter. ^ tablespoonful milk, 

brown sauce (No. 6). pepper and salt. 

Well wash the leek, and boil it in salted boiling water until tender ; drain, and 
cut it in small pieces, using the white part only. Put the pieces of leek into a 
stewpan, add sufficient sauce to moisten it, and keep hot. Beat the eggs in a basin 
with a fork, add the milk, salt, and pepper. Put the butter into an omelet-pan, 
and, when melted and hot, add the eggs ; stir in the centre with a spoon until the 
eggs begin to set. Place the stewed leeks in the centre, roll up quickly to an oval 
Bhape. Let the omelet lightly brown, turn on to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 2 or 3 persons. 

1,925. OMELETTE A LA GRUYfiRE (GRUYfiRE CHEESE OMELET). 
3 eggs. I 1 oz. Gruyere cheese. | 1 shallot. | f oz. butter. | salt. | pepper. 

Chop the shallot finely ; cut the cheese into small dice. Melt the butter in an 
omelet-pan ; as soon as it is hot, put in the chopped shallot, and fry without brown- 
ing. Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork until the whites and yolks are well mixed, 
then add the cheese, salt, and pepper ; pour this on to the shallot, stir in the centre 
with a spoon until the eggs begin to set, then roll quickly towards the handle of the 
pan, toss it over, and then turn on to a hot dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 

1,926. OMELETTE A LA CLAMART. 



3 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls fresh 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



peas. 

Cook the peas, drain well ; melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; put in the peas. 
and toss them over the fire ; keep warm. Beat the eggs in a basin, season with 
salt and pepper. Put the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan ; as soon as 
it is hot, pour in the eggs ; stir them in the centre with a spoon until they just begin 



568 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

to set, then place the peas in the centre, roll quickly towards the handle of the 
pan, turn it over as soon as it is brown ; remove the pan from the fire, and turn it 
out on to a hot dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required to make omelet, 5 minutes. Seasonable, June 
to September. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

1,927. OMELETTE AUX EPINARDS (SPINACH OMELET). 



4 eggs. 

2 ozs. butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls cooked spinach. ^ gill veloute sauce (No. 82). 

pepper and salt. 



1 tablespoonful cream. 

Cook the spinach, drain well, press out all the water, and then rub through a 
fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the puree of spinach, season to 
taste, add the cream, and make thoroughly hot. Beat the eggs in a basin, season 
them with salt and pepper. Put the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan ; 
as soon as it is hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre with a spoon until they begin 
to set ; place the spinach in the centre, roll into an oval shape ; let it colour lightly, 
toss over ; take the pan oS the fire, and turn the omelet on to a hot dish. Surround 
with the veloute sauce, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, after spinach is cooked, 10 minutes. Season- 
able, March to December. Sufficient for 2 persons. 

1,928. OMELETTE A LA PARMENTIER (OMELET WITH POTATOES). 



4 eggs. 

2 ozs. butter. 



teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



tomato sauce (No. 77). 
pepper and salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls potato. 

Cut a potato into small dice, take two tablespoonfuls. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a 
stewpan, put in the potato dice, and stew them in the butter. When cooked, keep 
hot until required. Beat the eggs in a basin, season them with salt and pepper, 
add a pinch of chopped parsley. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet- 
pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the egg mixture, stir it in the centre with a spoon 
until the eggs begin to set round the edge of the pan ; then put the potato dice, 
which should be very hot and nicely seasoned, in the centre, fold over, and roll 
quickly to an oval shape. Let it colour lightly, turn it over then tip it carefully 
on to a hot dish. Surround the omelet with a little tomato sauce, and serve at 
once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



4 eggs. 

1 small onion. 



2 ozs. butter. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



1,929. OMELETTE AUX OIGNONS (ONION OMELET). 

salt. 
pepper. 

Chop the onion finely. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a small stewpan ; when hot, put 
in the onion, and fry it without browning ; then add | gill of the sauce, and cook 
on a moderate fire until the onion is tender. Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork 
until the whites and yolks are thorouglily mixed, but they should not be frothy ; 
season them with salt and pepper. Put the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet- 
pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre with a spoon until 
the eggs begin to set round the edge ; then place the onion stew in the centre, fold 
over quickly into an oval shape in the form of a crescent, brown lightly, turn over ; 
then tip it carefully into the centre of a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce 
round, and serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



EGG DISHES . 569 

1,930. OMELETTE AUX CONCOMBRES (CUCUMBER OMELET). 



4 egg; 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 ozs. butter. 
^ cucumber. 1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 

Peel the cucumber, cut it in quarters lengthways, take out the seeds, and slice 
it into small pieces. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewq^an ; as soon as hot, put in the 
pieces of cucumber and toss over the fire until half cooked ; then add about ^ gill 
of sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper ; continue to cook until the cucumber 
is tender. Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork until the .yolks and whites are well 
mixed, season them with salt and pepper. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in 
an omelet-pan, and, when hot, pour in the eggs ; stir with a spoon in the centre 
until they begin to set round the edge of the pan ; put the cucumber stew in the 
centre, roll quickly into an oval, crescent shape, turn it over ; tip it carefully into 
the centre of a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce round, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,931. OMELETTE AUX ASPERGES (ASPARAGUS OMELET). 
4 eggs. I 1 small bundle asparagus. | salt. | 2 ozs. butter. | pepper. 

Wash and scrape the stalks of the asparagus, tie them with string and cut the 
stems all the same length ; put them into a stewpan of salted, boiling water, and 
cook until tender ; drain, untie, and let the asparagus cool. Then cut off one table- 
spoonful of the asparagus-tops, and cut the remainder, leaving only the green part ; 
tie the latter into a bundle again, and put it back in the M-ater to keep hot until 
required. Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork until the whites and yolks aje well 
mixed, but not frothy. Melt I oz. of butter in a steA^-pan, put in the tablespoonful 
of asparagus-heads, and keep hot. Put the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet- 
pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre with a spoon until the 
mixture begins to set round the edge of the pan ; then place the stew of asparagus- 
heads in the centre, roll up quickly into an oval, crescent shape, turn it ; then tip 
it carefully on to a hot dish. Take up the little bundle of asparagus, untie it, toss 
the asparagus quickly in butter, taking care not to break the heads, arrange them 
neatly round the omelet, and serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
July. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,932. OMELETTE AUX FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS (OMELET WITH 

ARTICHOKE-BOTTOMS). 
4 eggs. I 2 artichoke-bottoms. | 1^ ozs. butter. | salt. | pepper. 
Cook the artichoke-bottoms, drain, and cut them in small dice. Melt ^ oz. of 
butter in a ste\\^an, toss the artichoke dice in it until thoroughly hot, season with 
salt and pepper. Keep warm at the side of the fire until wanted. Beat the eggs with 
a fork until the yolks and whites are well mixed ; add seasoning to taste. Melt 
1 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan; when hot, pour in the egg mixture, stir until it 
begins to set round the edge of the pan ; put the artichokes in the centre, roll quickly 
into an oval shape, turn over ; then tip it carefully on to a hot dish. Serve at once. 
Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times, if 
preserved artichokes are used. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,933. OMELETTE AU HOMARD (LOBSTER OMELET). 

salt. 



4 eggs. 

1^ ozs. butter. 



1^ tablespoonfuls lobster. 

1 gill Bechamel sauce (No. 4). pej^per. 

Take enough lobster meat to make the required quantity, cut it up into dice, or 
it can be minced. Put ^oz. of butter into a stewpan, add the lobster to it as soon as 
it is hot, stir in about J gill of Bechamel sauce, season with salt and a tiny pinch 



570 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

of cayenne. Keep hot by the side of the fire until required. Beat the eggs well, so 
as to mix the yolks and whites ; season to taste. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter 
in an omelet-pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the egg mixture ; stir over the fire 
until it begins to set round the edge of the pan, then place the prepared lobster 
in the centre, roll up quickly to an oval shape, let it colour lightly, turn it over 
dish it on a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce round, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, May to Septem- 
ber. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.934. OMELETTE AUX ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY OMELET). 

4 eggs. 1 teaspoonful anchovy I 4 anchovy fillets. 

1 oz. butter. essence. I pepper. 

Cut the anchovy fillets into small dice. Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork, 
add the anchovy essence and the dice to them, season with a pinch of pepper. 
Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; when hot, pour in the egg mixture ; as soon as it 
sets round the edge, roll up quickly to an oval shape. Turn on to a hot dish, and 
serve at once. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1.935. OMELETTE A LA CERVELLE (BRAIN OMELET). 



4 eggs. 

\\ ozs. butter. 



1 tablespoonful cooked calf's 1 gill Bechamel sauce. 

pepper and salt. 



brains. 

Cut the cooked brains in small pieces. Melt ^ oz. of butter in a small stewpan, 
put in the dice of brains, and toss them in the butter for a few minutes ; then add 
\ gill of Bechamel sauce, season with salt and pepper, and keep hot. Beat the 
eggs in a basin, season to taste. Melt the remaining 1 oz. of butter in an omelet- 
pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre with a spoon until it 
begins to set round the edge ; then place the brain stew in the centre, roll up quickly 
into an oval shape ; turn out on to a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce round, 
and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,936. OMELETTE AUX LENTILLES (LENTIL OMELET). 



4 eggs. 



1^ ozs. butter. 



salt, 
pepper. 



teaspoonful parsley, 
gill brown sauce. 



^ small onion. J gill cooked lentils. 

Peel the onion, mince it finely. Put ^ oz. of butter into a small stewpan and 
melt it ; as soon as it is hot, fry the onion. When done, put in the cooked lentils, 
stir over the fire ; then add J gill of brown sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Keep hot in the stewpan by the side of the fire until required. Beat the eggs in a 
basin with a fork until the whites and yolks are well mixed, but not frothy ; add the 
parsley, salt, and pepper to them ; mix all together. Melt 1 oz. of butter in an omelet- 
pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre until the mixture com- 
mences to set round the edge of the pan ; then place the lentil stew in the centre, 
fold over, roll quickly to an oval shape, turn over, slide it on to a hot dish, pour 
the remaining ^ gill of sauce round, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required. 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,937. OMELETTE AUX CROOTONS (OMELET WITH CROOTONS). 



4 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls dice of bread. 

2 ozs. butter. 



salt. 
pepper. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
Cut some bread in small dice. Make 1 oz. of butter very hot in a stewpan, put 
in the croutons, and fry them a golden brown. Keep hot in the pan by the side of 



EGG DISHES 571 

the fire. Beat the eggs in a basin until yolks and whites are well mixed, add the 
parsley, salt, and pepper; stir all well together. Put 1 oz. of butter into an omelet- 
pan ; when hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre with a spoon until the mixture 
begins to set round the edge of the pan ; then place the fried dice of bread in the 
centre, roll up quickly, let it colour lightly ; then tip it carefully on to a hot dish. 
Serve at once. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 





1,938. OMELETTE A LA CR£ME. 


4 eggs. 

1| ozs. butter. 


1 shallot. 
1 cayenne. 


2 ozs. dried haddock. 1 teaspoonful grated 

3 fresh mushrooms. Parmesan cheese. 



1 tablespoonful cream, 
pepper and salt. 

Cook the haddock, remove skin and bones, and shred it finely. Melt i oz. of 
butter in a stewpan, chop the shallot small, put it into the butter as soon "as it is 
hot, and fry it a light colour. Wash, peel, and chop the mushrooms, put them 
to the shallots, and cook until done ; then add the fish, cream, cheese, pepper, and 
a tiny pinch of cayenne ; mix all together over the fire until quite hot. Beat the 
eggs in a basin, add salt and pepper to taste. Put the remaining 1 oz. of butter in 
an omelet-pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in the eggs, stir in the centre until they 
begin to set ; then put the prepared mixture in the middle of the omelet, roll up 
quickly to an oval shape, turn it over, then slide on to a hot dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

SALADES (SALADS) 

A WELL-MADE salad is a delight ; one badly prepared is an abomination. Lettuces 
are generally considered the best foundation for most salads, but nearly all vegetables 
can be used for the purpose. A few rules are necessary for the successful making 
of salads, and are here given : 

The vegetables used for the salad should be quite fresh and in season, as far as 
possible. 

The vegetables, if fresh, should not be allowed to remain long in water, but 
quickly washed and drained. This is best done by putting the salad vegetables 
into a salad basket, and letting them remain there for some time ; then turn into 
a clean cloth, and toss them about in it. Care must be taken not to bruise the 
leaves of lettuces. If the salad vegetables are withered, they may be allowed to 
soak in water for about half an hour, in order that they may get back some of their 
crispness. 

Lettuce-leaves should not be cut, but torn in shreds with the fingers. 

Salad should not be prepared until just before it is wanted, and the salad- 
dressing should only be added at the last moment. A wooden spoon and fork are 
the most suitable for mixing salads. 

Raw onion, except in very small quantities, should not be used for flavouring 
salads, as the taste of it is objectionable to many. 

An old proverb says that four people are needed for the making of a good 
salad — " A spendthrift to put in the oil, a miser to add the vinegar, a wise man 
to administer the salt, and a madman to do the mixing." 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

1,939. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

2 yolks of raw eggs. I 1 tablespoonful boiling water. } pint vinegar. 

I pint salad oil. ( juice of 1 lemon. cayenne, pepper, and salt. 

Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs ; put the yolks into a basin, and stir 
them with a wooden spoon until smooth. Add the salad oil by degrees, stirring 
quickly during the process ; the oil should be put in very gradually. Add the 
vinegar and the seasoning ; lastly, the lemon-juice and the boiling water. The 
latter, added slowly, will prevent the sauce turning, and will ensure its keeping for 
some time. 

Sometimes it happens that the mayoi^naise separates. This is due to one of 
the following causes : 

1. Adding the oil too quickly at the beginning. 

2. Too much oil for the number of yolks, one yolk only being able to absorb a 
certain amount of oil. 

3. The use of oil that is too cold or congealed. Oil should be kept in a moderately 
warm place. 

572 



SALADES (SALADS) 573 

^ To bring back mayonnaise to its original state after being turned, take another 
yolk, put it into a basin with a few drops of vinegar, and then stir into it the turned 
mayonnaise, drop by drop, until it has all been mixed in. 

1,940. VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

This sauce may be used for all salads, and is composed of three parts of salad 
ml to one part of vinegar. Salt and pepper, chopped capers, gherkins, parsley, 
tarragon, and chervil can be added if liked. 



1,941. SALAD DRESSING. 



3 eggs. I 1 tcaspoonful dry mustard. 



1 



teaspoonful salt. 



^ gill cream. | 1 small dessertspoonful ^ gill oil. 

cayenne. > castor sugar. | gill vinegar. 

Boil the eggs hard ; when done, take them up and place in a basin of cold water. 
Shell and cut them in halves, take out the yolks, and pass them through a wire 
sieve ; put these into a basin, mix in the cream, then the oil ; add the salt, sugar, 
mustard, and a very small pinch of cayenne. ]VIix all these together thoroughly, 
then add the vinegar by degrees ; stir until quite smooth. IVIix it with the vegetables 
just as it is wanted. The whites of the eggs are cut in slices and placed on the top 
or round the salad. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 



sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 



1,942. BOILED SALAD DRESSING. 

4 yolks of egg3. 1 teaspoonful of made mustard. 

l| giUs milk or cream. pepper and salt. 

Put the milk into a saucepan, place it on the fire, and bring to the boil. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs in a basin ; let the milk cool a little, and then stir it on to the 
eggs. Return to the saucepan, and cook over a very slow fire until the eggs 
thicken. It must not be allowed to boil on any account, or it will curdle. This 
dressing must be very thick ; if it is not sufiiciently so, another yolk of egg must be 
added. When the eggs have thickened, pour the mixture into a basin, add a good 
pinch of sugar, also of salt and pepper. Lastly, stir in the made mustard and the 
vinegar. Use when cold. This dressing is much improved by using cream instead 
of milk, although the latter is quite satisfactory. It can be bottled and kept for 
some time. 

Average cost, 7d., if milk is used. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all 
the year. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

1,943. SALADE D'ASPERGES (ASPARAGUS SALAD). 



1 bundle green asparagus. 
3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



salt. 

pepper. 

lettuce. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley. 



Cook the asparagus in salted, boiling water ; when done, drain, untie, and spread 
out on a dish to cool. When the asparagus is quite cold, cut away all the hard 
stalk, leaving the soft green part only. Wash the lettuce, take all the best leaves, 
and make a bed with them at the bottom of a salad-bowl ; arrange the asparagus 
on this. Mix together in a basin the oil, vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper ; stir 
well with a wooden spoon, add the chopped parsley, and pour this dressing over the 
salad just as it is wanted. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
July. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



574 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 beetroot. 
1 shallot. 



1,944. SALADE DE BETTERAVE (BEETROOT SALAD). 

1 gill thin cream. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. salt. 

1 lemon. 1 dessertspoonful mustard. pepper. 

Cut the cooked beetroot into thin slices. Chop the shallot finely, mix it with 
the parsley. Put the mustard into a basin, and mix the cream to it by degrees; 
season with salt and pepper, and add the juice of the lemon. Arrange the slices of 
beetroot in layers in a salad-bowl ; between each layer sprinkle a little of the mixed 
parsley and shallot. Continue in this way until the beetroot slices have been used 
up. Just before serving pour the prepared dressing over. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,945. SALADE DE CONCOMBRES (CUCUMBER SALAD). 



1 large cucumber. 

3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 



J teaspoonful chopped parsley 
and chervil. 



1 tablespoonful vinegar, 
pepper and salt. 

Peel the cucumber, cut it in very thin slices, place these on a plate, and sprinkle 
with table-salt and let stand for about two hours. Then drain away the water 
that has been abstracted ; dry the cucumber, and arrange the slices in a salad-bowl 
or on a dish. Mix the salad oil and vinegar together ; add a little salt and pepper 
and the chopped herbs ; mix well, and then pour it over the prepared cucumber. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, March to August. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 135. — Salade de Chouxfleurs. 



1,946. SALADE DE CHOUXFLEURS (CAULIFLOWER SALAD). 



2 small cauliflowers. 

3 tablespoonfuls oil. 



1 tablespoonful vinegar. salt. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. pepper. 

Boil the cauliflower in salted water until tender, but they should be somewhat 
firm; drain well, and allow them to get cold. Separate the flower into sprigs, 
remove the stalk. Pile these up in a salad-bowl. Mix together the oil, vinegar, 
salt and pepper, and pour over the cauliflower. Shell the hard-bofled eggs, cut 
them in sHces, arrange these round the salad, sprinkle some chervil or parsley over 
the cauliflower, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable,. March to Novem- 
ber. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



SALADES (SALADS) 



575 



2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 
1 hard-boiled egg. 



1,947. SALADE DE CHICOREE (ENDIVE SALAD). 

2 endives. I 1 bunch watercress, 

pepper and salt. | 4 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 

Cut the stalks off the endives, wash them well in salted water, divide them into 
strips, drain, and dry them in a cloth. Arrange the endive in a salad-bowl. Mix 
the oil and vinegar together, add salt and pepper to taste, pour it over the endive, 
and mix well. Garnish round with sprigs of watercress and slices of hard-boiled 

egg- 
Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
March, Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,948. SALADE D'CEUFS ET BETTERAVE (EGG AND BEETROOT 

SALAD). 



1 beetroot. 



on 



vinegar, 
salt. 



4 eggs. 
1 lettuce. 



chopped parsley, 
pepper. 

Boil the eggs for twelve to fifteen minutes, then put them into a basin of cold 
water. When cold, shell and cut in slices orossways. Cut the cooked beetroot in 
slices, arrange a layer of beetroot in a salad-bowl, season with salt, pepper, vinegar, 
chopped parsley, and salad oil. On this place a layer of egg-slices, season in the 
same way, then another layer of beetroot, seasoning, and egg. Continue in this 
way until the beetroot and eggs are used up. Wash the lettuce well, take away the 
outside leaves, drain, and dry in a clean cloth. Shred it fmely, and arrange round 
the salad in a border. Pour over a little vinegar and oil, and serve the salad as 
soon as dressed. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



1,949. SALADE A LA CRECY (CARROT SALAD). 



1 bunch young carrots, 
salad dressing (No. 1,941). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



1 lettuce. 1 tablespoonful capers. 

6 olives. chopped parsley, 

salt. pepper. 

Boil the carrots ; when cooked, drain and cool ; then sHce and r.rrange them in 
a salad-bowl in a pile ; season each layer with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and 
salad dressing ; pile it up in the centre of the bowl. Arrange round the salad the 
stoned olives, the heart of the lettuce, washed and dried, the capers and slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. Arrange tastefully, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the spring. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 head celery. 
4 potatoes. 



1,950. SALADE DE LEGUMES (VEGETABLE SALAD) 

oil. i chervil, 

vinegar. ! tarragoa. 



3 tomatoes. 
1 cauliflower. 



pai-sley. 
1 lettuce. 



salt, 
pepper. 



1 large carrot. 
1 turnip. 

Scrape the carrot and peel the turnip, scoop them out with a round vegetable- 
cutter the size of peas, cook these separately in salted water. Cook the potatoes 
and the cauliflower ; scald the tomatoes and skin them carefully. Cut the potatoes 
and tomatoes into dice. Arrange the different vegetables in layers in a salad- 
bowl ; the celery, washed and shced in small pieces, and the cauliflower, divided hito 
sprigs, are also added ; sprinkle over each layer some salt, pepper, and chopped 
herbs ; pour over first vinegar and then oil. Wash the lettuce, place the heart 
in the centre of the salad, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

PT. VIII. 37 



576 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,951. SALADE A LA LORETTE. 



1 head of celery, 
pineapple. 



2 lettuces. i salt. j 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfuls oil. | pepper. ) beetroot. 

Wash and trim the celery, cut the heart and white sticks into strips, put these 
into a basin. Cut an equal quantity of pineapple into the same size and shape, 
put this to the celery, season with salt and pepper, add the oil and vinegar, mix all 
well together. Wash the lettuces, shred them into good-sized pieces, make a bed 
of these in a salad-bowl, place the salad of celery and pineapple on it ; garnish 
round the dish with slices of beetroot, cut out with a fancy cutter. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,952. SALADE DE POMMES ET NOIX. 



pepper and salt. 



^ lb. shelled walnuts. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
watercress. 



6 russet apples. 
1 head of celery. 

Trim the celery, wash it thoroughly, cut all the white sticks and the heart into 
dice. Put the walnuts into boiling water in a stewpan, let them boil for one minute, 
then strain and peel ; place them in cold water, and let them soak for ten minutes. 
Peel and core the apples, cut these into dice, put them into a salad-bowl with the 
celery. Drain the walnuts, and stir them in with the other ingredients ; season with 
salt and pepper ; add sufficient mayonnaise to bind the ingredients. Mix all well 
together, garnish with watercress, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 mmutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,953. SALADE JOCKEY CLUB (JOCKEY-CLUB SALAD). 



i gill cooked asparagus-heads. 
2 lettuces. 
1 gill celery. 



2 or 3 cold potatoes. 

salt. 

pepper. 



1 gill cooked French beans, 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134:). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Wash the celery, cut sufficient of the white part into dice to make the required 
quantity. Cut the beans, before cooking, into diamond-shapes. When cooked, 
drain well and put them with the asparagus-heads and celery into a basin. Slice 
the potatoes, then cut in dice, add to the rest of the ingredients, season with salt 
and pepper ; add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to bind all together. Dress the salad 
in the centre of a salad-bowl. Wash the lettuces, cut the hearts in convenient 
pieces ; garnish round the dish with them. Shell the hard-boiled eggs, cut them in 
quarters, and place them alternately with the lettuce. Serve the salad as soon as 
it is mixed. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, January to 
March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



1,954. TOMATES A L'AMERICAINE. 



6 tomatoes. 



2 lettuces, 
watercress. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 4 tablespoonfuls chopped 

pepper and salt. 4 tablespoonfuls chopped celery. pineapple. 

Select tomatoes all the same size, not too ripe. Cut a circular slice off the top 
of each, and with a small spoon remove the pulp ; this must be done carefully, so 
as not to break the sides of the tomatoes. Rub the pulp through a sieve into a 
basin, chop the celery into dice, not too small, cut the pineapple in the same way 
mix these with the tomato-pulp, season with salt and pepper, and add sufficient 
stiff mayonnaise to mix the ingredients. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation. 
Wash the lettuces, divide the leaves, arrange the best leaves on a cold entree-disli, 
dress the tomatoes on them, garnish with watercress round the dish, and serve. 
(See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February, Sufficient fc* 6 persons. 




c 
o 

£ 
< 



in 

-I— » 

«J 

G 
o 

I-- 



SALADES {SALADS) bll 

1,955. SALADE DE LAITUE (LETTUCE SALAD). 

2 cos lettuces. j 3 tablcspoonfuls salad oil. , salt. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. | 1 lablespoonful vinegar. | pepper. 

Cut off the stalks of the lettuces, take away the outside leaves, cut each lettuce 
in quarters ; keep the hearts for garnish ; break the rest of the leaves in small pieces. 
Wash in plenty of cold water, then take them out of the water, drain, and put them 
into a cloth. Shake the cloth well, in order to remove as much of the moisture as 
possible. When the lettuce is ready, put it into a salad-bowl with a little chopped 
parsley and tarragon, if liked. Dissolve a Httle salt and pepper in the vinegar, 
sprinkle this over the lettuce in the bowl, then add the oil ; mix all well together. 
Shell the hard-boiled eggs, cut them in slices or quarters, and garnish round the 
salad with them. Serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, April to Septem- 
ber. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,956. SALADE DE CELERI ET NOIX (SALAD OF CELERY AND 

WALNUTS). 



1 head of celery. 


1 gill mayonnaise sauce 


watercress 


J lb. shelled walnuts. 


(No. 134). 


salt. 


1 tablespoonful cream. 


radishes. 


pepper. 



salt. 

pepper. 

chervil. 



parsley. 

tarragon. 

chives. 



Cut the root of the celery, take away th& outside stalks, and wash the white part 
of the celery thoroughly ; dram and dry it. Procure the walnuts ready shelled, 
put them into boiling water for a minute or two to loosen the skin, then peel them. 
Cut the celery and the walnuts into strips, put them into a basin together ; mix 
the cream into the mayonnaise. Season the celery and walnuts with salt and pepper, 
add the mayonnaise, and mix all well together. Pile the mixture in a salad-bowl 
or round dish in pyramid form, garnish the dish with a wreath of watercress and 
some radishes cut to represent flowers. Serve at once. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, Is. Time required, | hour. Seasonable, September to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,957. SALADE DE POMMES DE TERRE (POTATO SALAD). 

1 lb. kidney or new potatoes. 
3 tablespoon fuls oil. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, boil them in salted water till tender ; when done, 
strain and dry them, cut them in slices, and arrange in a salad-bowl before they 
are quite cold. Mix together equal quantities of chervil, parsley, tarragon, and 
chives, add to them some pepper and salt ; sprinkle this over the potatoes, and 
pour the vinegar and oil over. Mix all together carefully, so as not to break the 
potatoes, and serve immediately. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

1,958. SALADE DE POMMES DE TERRE A LA PARISIENNE (POTATO 

SALAD, PARISIAN STYLE). 

1 lb. kidney potatoes. 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. salt. I chervil. 

1 gill white wine. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. pepper. I parsley. 

Wash and peel the potatoes, boil them in salted water until tender, then drain 
and dry. Cut the potatoes while still warm into thin slices. Arrange them in 
a salad bowl ; sprinkle the wine over them ; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar ; 
add some parsley and chervil, finely chopped. Mix all together carefully, so as 
not to break the potatoes. Serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

37—2 



578 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

1,959. SALADE A LA FRANC AISE (FRENCH SALAD). 



1 lettuce. 



2 gill salad oil 



chopped parsley. 

tarragon. 

chervil and chives. 



2 ^ 
pepper. 1 tablespoonful tarragon- 

salt, vinegar. 

Split the lettuce down the stalk, divide the leaves into pieces, wash in cold 
water — but they must not be allowed to soak in it — drain well, and dry in a cloth. 
Place the pieces of lettuce in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over some salt and pepper and 
a seasoning of coarsely-chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, and chives ; instead of 
the latter a little spring onion may be used. Put the oil and vinegar into a basin 
and mix, then pour over the salad in the bowl ; stir with a wooden spoon and fork 
until thoroughly mixed. Serve at once. Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 
minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

French salads are made of one kind of vegetable only — i.e., lettuce, endive, 
dandelion, etc., with the addition of herbs and a dressing of oil and vinegar: A 
French cook would not mix two salad vegetables together, as they maintain that the 
delicate flavour of one is destroyed by the other. 

1,960. SALADE ITALIENNE (ITALIAN SALAD). 



2 carrots. ' 2 tomatoes. i 1 tablespoonful capers. 
1 turnip. 1 gill cooked peas. (3 anchovy fillets. 

3 olives, i 1 gill cooked beans. 1 chopped parsley. 



salt. I tarragon and chervil. 

pepper. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

\ lb. potatoes. I mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



Cut the cooked, cold potatoes into dice ; cook the rest of the vegetables ; cut 
the carrots, turnip, and beans into the same sized pieces as the potato ; scald and 
peel the tomatoes, press out the seeds, and prepare them in the same way as the 
rest of the vegetables. Mix all these vegetables together in a basin ; add the peas, 
the capers, and a little chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil ; season with salt and 
pepper. Stir in some mayonnaise sauce, and when thoroughly mixed, pile up in 
the middle of a salad-bowl ; garnish with the anchovy fillets, stoned olives, and hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in slices or quarters. Serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the summer 
months. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,961. SALADE A L'ANGLAISE (ENGLISH SALAD). 

2 cos lettuces. a Uttle mustard and cress. 

1 bunch watercress. beetroot. 

Cut the lettuces in halves, wash them well, drain and dry in a cloth, cut or break 
the leaves into small pieces ; put these into a salad-bowl. Wash the watercress 
thoroughly, remove the stalks, add them to the lettuces, also the mustard and cress 
after washmg. Mix all well together. Just before serving pour the salad dressing 
over, and stir all well together. Cut the beetroot in slices, stamp them out with a 
fancy cutter into rounds or crescents, or according to taste. Shell the hard-boiled 
eggs, cut them in quarters or slices, and garnish the salad with them and with the 
beetroot. Serve as soon as the salad is ready. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, April to September. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,962. SALADE DE TOMATES (TOMATO SALAD). 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 

salad dressing (No. 1,941). 



6 tomatoes. 

1 lb. new potatoes. 



salt. 
pepper. 



2 hard-boiled eggs, 
oil. 



watercress. 



Scrape and wash the potatoes, boil them in salted water until done, drain and 
let them cool. While still lukewarm, sHce them, and the tomatoes ; arrange these 
vegetables in layers in a salad-bowl, piling them up as high as possible; season 
with salt and pepper and chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil ; pour the vinegar 
and oil over. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in shces, and garnish round the salad with 
these, and also with the watercress. Serve at once. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to July. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



SALADES {SALADS) 



579 



^ gill turnip. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

mayonnaise sauce (No. 



134). 



1,963. SALADE A LA JARDINIERE (SALAD OF MIXED VEGETABLES). 

1 small cauliflower. ^ gill cooked carrot. 

1 gill cooked peas. 1 lettuce. 

1 gill cooked beans. pepper and salt. 

Boil the cauliflower in salted, boiling water ; do not cook it too much, as it should 
be somewhat firm ; drain, and let it cool. Cut the carrot and turnip, before cooking, 
into dice, and the beans into diamond shapes. Divide the cauliflower into sprigs. 
Arrange these respective vegetables in layers in a salad-bowl, season each layer 
with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise. Wash the lettuce, dfain, and break it up into 
small pieces. Make a border round the salad wjth the lettuce, garnish with the 
hard-boiled egg, and serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required for mixing, 10 minutes. Seasonable, spring 
and summer months. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 136. — Salads a la Jardiniere. 



1,964. SALADE CRESSONNIERE (WATERCRESS SALAD). 



1 lb. kidney potatoes. 

2 bunches watercress. 
1 gill white ^vinc. 



3 tabiespoonfuls salad oil. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar, 
chervil. 



parsley. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

pepper and salt. 



Wash and peel the potatoes, boil them until tender in salted water, then drain 
and dry. Cut the potatoes, while still warm, in thin slices. W^ash the watercress, 
pick all the leaves from the stalks, mix these with the potatoes, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, chopped chervil, and parsley ; mix all well together. Arrange in a pile 
in a salad-bowl, pour the white wine over, season with oil and vinegar mixed together. 
Garnish the dish with sliced hard-boiled egg and sprigs of watercress. Serve as 
soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the spring. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,965. SALADE AUX CEUFS (EGG SALAD). 



6 eggs. 


2 lettuces. 


vinegar. 


salt. 


celery. 


beetroot. 


pepper. 


oil. 


chopped parsley 



Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes until quite hard, lift them out of the boiling 
ivater, and put them into a basin of cold water. Wash the lettuces, shred them 



580 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



finely ; trim and wash the celery, cut it into strips, mix with the lettuce in a basin ; 
add a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; pour over some vinegar and oil, stir 
well together, and turn into a salad-bowl. Slice the hard-boiled eggs in halves 
lengthways, arrange them round the salad, leaning against it. Mix a little oil 
and vinegar together, sprinkle a pinch of salt and pepper on each egg, and a few 
drops of oil and vinegar. Cut out some slices of beetroot with a fancy cutter, garnish 
round the salad with these, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



SALADE DE CELERIAC (CELERIAC SALAD). 

salt. 



1 gill thin cream. 
1 lemon. 



pepper. 



1,966 

1 root celeriac. 

h tablespoonful mustard 

Wash the celeriac, peel it, cut in slices, and then into fuie julienne strips. Mix 
the mustard with the cream, add salt and pepper and the juice of the lemon. Put 
the strips of celeriac in a bowl, pour the dressing over, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, October to March. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



4 tomatoes. 


pepper. 


vinegar. 


salad dressing (No. 1,941). 


watercress. 


chojiped parsley. 


salt. 


oil. 


tarragon and chervil. 



1,967. SALADE D'ARTICHAUTS ET TOMATES (ARTICHOKE AND TOMATO 

SALAD). 

8 cooked artichoke- 
bottoms. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Mix some oil and vinegar (about one tablespoonful of each) in a plate, add some 
salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of the mixed herbs. Cut the tomatoes in slices, 
put them and the artichokes into the above preparation ; let them remain in it for 
ten minutes. Arrange the artichokes and tomatoes in layers in a salad-bowl, and 
pour the dressing over. Shell the eggs, cut them in slices, arrange them round the 
salad ; garnish the dish with sprigs of watercress, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year if 
preserved artichokes are used ; if fresh, January to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,968. SALADE SUEDOISE (SWEDISH SALAD). 



3 ozs. ox-tongue. 
2 cooked potatoes. 
1 apple. 



I beetroot. 

\ cooked carrot. 

3 anchovies. 



1 dessertspoonful capers. 
3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



pepper and salt. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 
chopped parsley. 

Cut the tongue into small pieces, slice the potatoes, beetroot, and carrot ; peel 
and core the apple, and cut in pieces. Wash, scrape, and fillet the anchovies ; 
cut them up. Place these ingredients in a basin, add the capers, and mix all 
together. Season with salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil ; stir until well mixed. Dish 
up in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and garnish with the 
hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Serve as soon as ready. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,969. SALADE RUSSE. 



\ gill cooked green peas. 

^ gill cooked carrot. 

\ gill cooked French beans. 



salt. 
pepper. 
1 truffle. 



3 new potatoes. 

4 cooked mushrooms. 
2 ozs. lean ham. 



2 gherkins. 
I beetroot, 
caviare. 



6 anchovy fillets. 
1 hard-boiled egg. 
J pint mayonnaise. 

Cut the carrot and French beans into dice ; cook them separately in boiling, 
salted water ; boil the potatoes and the peas ; slice the potatoes, then cut them into 
strips ; put the mushrooms on a buttered ^n in the oven, and, when done, take 
them up and let cool. Cut the fillets of anchovy, the ham, truffle, and the gherkins 
into julienne strips ; put them into a salad-bowl ; add the peas, beans, potatoes, 



SALADES (SALADS) 



581 



and carrot, all well drained after cooking ; season with pepper and salt. Arrange 
these ingredients in the salad-bowl in layers ; season each layer with a little mayon- 
naise sauce ; pil* up into the shape of a pyramid, pour the remainder of the sauce 
over, and garnish with caviare, chopped beetroot, and chopped hard-boiled white 
of egg. Serve as soon as the salad is prepared. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to Septem- 
ber. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,970. SALADE A LA POLONAISE (POLISH SALAD). 



J lb. cooked chicken or game. 
2 apples. 
2 tomatoes. 



2 small lettuces. J cucumber, 

salad dressing (No. 1,941). salt. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. pepper. 

Free the chicken or game from skin and bone, cut it up into strips or dice ; trim 
the lettuces, take away the outside leaves, and wash and dry them, and cut or break 
them into shreds. Slice half the cucumber, after peeling ; peel and core the apples, 
cut them both into slices. Mix all these ingredients together in a salad-bowl ; 
peel and slice the tomatoes, and then cut them into dice ; mix into the salad. Season 
with salt, pepper, and salad-dressing ; stir all together until well mixed. Pile it 
up in the shape of a pyramid. Sieve the yolks of the eggs and sprinkle them over 
the salad, garnish the salad with the remainder of the cucumber, cut in slices, and 
the whites of the eggs cut in rings. Serve as soon as mixed. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of chicken or game. Time required, 20 minutes. 
Seasonable at all times if chicken is used. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,971. SALADE A LA FLAMANDE (FLEMISH SALAD). 

1 endive. 

4 Dutch herring fillets 



3 potatoes, 
little celery. 



2 small apples. 
1 small onion. 



3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



chopped parsley, 
pepper and salt. 

Bake the onion in its skin ; when cooked, let it cool, then peel and chop it. Cut 
the fillets of herring into dice ; peel and shred the apples and celery ; cut the cooked 
potatoes into strips or dice. Shred the endive into julienne strips. Mix all these 
ingredients together in a salad-bowl ; season with salt, pepper, the vinegar, and oil. 
Stir all together until thoroughly mixed. Dress in a salad-bowl, sprinkle a little 
chopped parsley over, and serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1,972. SALADE D'ESPAGNOLE (SPANISH SALAD). 



6 tomatoes. 

4 cooked potatoes. 

1 endive. 



salad dressing (No. 1,941). 
J pint preserved peas or French 
beans. 



^ beetroot. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

pepper and salt. 

Peel the tomatoes by soaking them in boiling water for one minute or so, cut 
them in slices, wash the endive well, trim the root, and use only the best part. 
Slice the potatoes and beetroot. If the preserved French beans are used, they 
should be cut in short lengths. Shell the eggs, cut them in halves, take out the yolks 
and rub them through a wire sieve, cut the whites in rings. Put a layer of tomato 
into a salad-bowl, sprinkle over some salt and pepper, season with salad-dressing, 
then a layer of potato seasoned in the same way ; next beetroot, seasoning again, 
then the beans. Continue in this way until the ingredients are used up, piling the 
salad as high as possible in the centre of the bowl. Pour over some more dressing, 
sprinkle the sieved yolks of egg all over, and garnish with the rings of white of 
egg. Arrange a border of endive round the base of the salad, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



582 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,973. SALADE A LA RUSSE (RUSSIAN SALAD). 



1 quart aspic jelly. 
6 anchovies. 
6 olives, 
lobster meat. 



3 ozs. lean cooked ham. 
vinegar and oil. 
chopped parsley and tarragon, 
pepper and salt. 



1 pint mixed vgetables. 1 truffle. 

2 tablespoon fu Is caviare. capers. 
1 gill mayonn.oise sauce 2 gherkins. 

(No. 134). 12 prawns. 

Scoop out some carrots and turnips with a round vegetable scoop ; cut some French 
beans into lozenge shape. Cook these vegetables separately in salted, boiling water ; 
also cook 1 gill of green peas ; have sufficient of these vegetables mixed to make 
a pint. When the vegetables are cold, put them into a basin ; season them with 
salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Wash the anchovies, scrape and fillet them, cut 
in dice or fine strips ; slice the ham and the lobster meat, and cut them in dice. 
Mix all these together with the vegetables ; add a few capers, a little chopped 
parsley and tarragon, two gherkins cut in small pieces, and the caviare. Mix in 
the mayonnaise sauce and sufficient aspic jelly to bind. Line a border-mould with 
jelly. When tliis is set, decorate it with pieces of truffle, cut out in fancy shapes ; the 
prawns, the lobster claws, and gherkin ; sprinkle a few drops of aspic jelly over 
the decoration to set it. When this is done, pour in some more aspic to well cover 
them. Put on ice, and when set, fill up the centre of the mould with the prepared 
mixture ; put a layer of aspic over the top, and place on ice. When ready to serve, 
dip the mould in warm water and turn out quickly on to a dish. The centre cai? 
be filled with a nicely prepared salad, and the dish garnished with chopped aspic. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



-< 

^ 




^ 




^ 

















Fig. 137. — Salade a la Russe. 



1,974. SALADE DE TOMATE A LA CRSME. 



chopped tarragon. 
1 lettuce. 



6 tomatoes. ^ gill mayonnaise sauce salt. 

I gill cream. (No. 134). pepper. 

Put the tomatoes in boiling water, and let them stay in it for a few seconds ; then 
take them out, wipe and skin them carefully, cut each in quarters, press out some of 
the seeds, arrange them in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over salt and pepper. Whip the 
cream and stir it into the mayonnaise, pour this over the tomatoes, sprinkle wit h ^ 
a little chopped tarragon. Trim the lettuce, take of! the outside leaves, cut the 
lettuce in pieces and garnish the salad with it. Serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



SALADES (SALADS) 583 

1,975. SALADE DE POMMES DE TERRE NOUVELLES (SALAD OF NEW 

POTATOES). 

1 lb. new potatoes. I 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 1 teaspoonful chopped mint. 

2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. | pepper and salt. a few slices of beetroots 

Scrape the potatoes, boil them in salted water until cooked, drain and let them 
cool. While still warm, slice them. Arrange a layer of potato slices in a salad- 
bowl, sprinkle over salt, pepper, and a little chopped mint ; mix the vinegar and oU 
together, and season the potatoes with it. On this put another layer, and repeat 
the process until the potatoes have all been used up. .Garnish round the salad 
with slices of beetroot cut with a fancy cutter. Serve the salad as soon as mixed. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable, April to July. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,976. RADISH AND WATERCRESS SALAD. 

1 large bunch of radishes, i pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonfuls oil. 

2 bunches watercress. chopped parsley. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Cut off the leaves and roots of the radishes, wash them well in several waters, 
drain and cut the radishes into shoes ; wash the watercress thoroughly, pick the 
leaves from the stalks, put the slices of radishes and the watercress-leaves into a 
salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper, pour over the vinegar and oil. Mix all 
well together, sprinkle with chopped tarragon, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,977. LENTIL SALAD. 

i pint lentils. pepper and salt. 

1 onion. 



oil. 
vinegar. 



chopped parsley. 

Put the lentils in a basin, cover with cold water, and let them soak for twelve 
hours. This can be done overnight. Boil them in salted water with the peeled 
onion until tender. When they are soft, drain them, season with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar. Dress them in a china dish, sprinkle chopped parsley over them, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



2-4 choslnuts. 
1 head celery. 
1 lettuce. 



stock. 
1 onion. 
1 clove. 



mavonnaise sauce 

(No. 134.) 
parsley. 



1,978. SALADE DE MARRONS (CHESTNUT SALAD). 

salt. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

pepper. 

Slit the chestnuts, put them on a baking-sheet, and place in the oven for ten 
minutes, or until the shells and underskin can be easily removed ; then put them into 
a ste\vpan, cover Vv'ith stock, peel the onion, stick it with the clove ; add this to the 
stock, put the pan on the fire, and boil until the nuts are tender. When cooked, 
drain and let them get cold. Wash and trim the celery, cut the heart and the wliite 
sticks into strips ; slice the chestnuts, mix the celery and nuts together in a salad- 
bowl, season with salt and pepper, and add sufficient mayonnaise to bind the salad. 
Wash the lettuce and trim it ; shred the leaves and heart into fine strips, arrange 
this round the base of the salad ; sprinkle some chopped parsley over the salad. 
Shell the eggs, cut them in slices, and garnish the dish with them. Serve as soon 
as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



584 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,979. SALADE JAPONAISE (JAPANESE SALAD). 



1 pint aspic jelly. 

2 hard- boiled Q^^"i. 



I truffle. I H gills mayonnaise sauce. h gill cream 

beetroot. 



1 lettuce. I 1 gill green peas. 

Line a border-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; cut out some fancy patterns 
of truffle and the white of a hard-boiled egg ; decorate the mould tastefully with 
these. Sprinkle a few drops of aspic jelly over the decoration to set it. Wash the 
lettuce and cut it into fine shreds. Mix 1 gill of aspic jelly with the same quantity 
of mayonnaise sauce, add half the cream and the sieved yolks of the eggs. Coat 
the mould over the decoration with this mixture. Mix the shredded lettuce in a 
basin with any of the aspic mayonnaise that remains after the mould has been 
coated, stir in sufficient aspic to fill the mould ; put the lettuce preparation into the 
centre of the decorated mould, cover over the top with a layer of aspic jelly, and 
put on ice to set. Stir the remaining half of the cream into ^ gill of mayonnaise, 
mix this with the cooked peas ; season to taste. When the border is set, dip it into 
warm water, turn out on to a round dish, fill the centre with the prepared garnish, 
and decorate round the base of the dish with chopped aspic and fancy slices of 
beetroot. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,980. SALADE AMERICAINE (AMERICAN SALAD). 



6 tomatoes. 

1 head of celery. 

1 onion. 



4 small potatoes. 
2 hard-boiled eggs, 
salt. 



pepper. 

3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



Soak the tomatoes in boiling water for one or two minutes, dry and skin them, 
cut in thin slices, removing the seeds. Boil the potatoes, drain and dry, and, while 
still warm, slice them. Trim the celery, take the white part, wash it thoroughly, 
and cut into strips. Peel the onion, and cut it also in slices, separating it so as to 
divide it into rings. Arrange these vegetables in layers alternately in a salad- 
bowl — first a layer of tomato, then potato, then celery. Repeat in this order until 
the vegetables are used up. Season each layer with salt and pepper. Mix the oil 
and vinegar together in a basin, pour it over the salad. Shell the eggs, cut them 
in slices, decorate the salad with these and with the onion-rings. Serve as soon as 
the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,981. SALADE D'HIVER (WINTER SALAD). 



1 endive. 



salad dressing (No. 1,941). 



1 head of celery. I salt. 

^ beetroot. 2 or 3 cold potatoes. | pepper. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Wash the endive, trim and drain well. Cut the outside sticks from the celery^ 
and shred the white part into strips. Slice the potatoes (not too thinly), cut the 
beetroot in slices, put it on a dish or plate, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour 
the vinegar over. Let it remain in the vinegar for ten minutes. Arrange these 
ingredients alternately in a salad-bowl, season each layer with salt and pepper. As 
soon as it is ready to serve, pour the salad dressing over, and send to table at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable in the winter. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



1,982. SALADE A LA RACHEL. 

1 head of celery. 1 gill asparagus-heads. 

2 truffles. 4 artichoke-bottoms. 

3 potatoes. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Wash the celery, trim away all the outside sticks, cut the white part into fine 
strips, juHenne fashion. Cut the truffles, artichoke-bottoms, and cold potatoes in 



J gill mayonnaise sauce 

(No 1.34). 
pepper and salt. 



SALADES (SALADS) 



585 



the same way. Mix al! these vegetables together, add to them the cooked asparagus- 
heads, mix in the mayonnaise sauce, season with salt and pepper. Dress the salad 
in a salad-bowl. Shell the eggs, cut them in slices, and arrange round the base of 
the salad, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, ^ hour. Seasonable, January and 
Februar3^ Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



SALADE SICILIENNE 

salt. 



1,983 

3 tomatoes. 

4 artichoke-bottoms 



2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
^ lemon. 



1 head of celery. 

3 russet apples. | 4 artichoke- bottoms. pepper. 

Wash and trim the celery, cut it into dice; peel the apples and tomatoes; cut 
these also into dice, and the artichokes in the same way. Put them all together 
into a salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper ; stir well, so that the ingredients 
are all evenly mixed. Add the lemon- juice and the salad-oil, mix thoroughly, and 
serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February, Sufficient for 3 persons. 

1,984. SALAt)E A L'ALLEMANDE (GERMAN SALAD). 



4 potatoes. 


6 anchovies. 


2 tablespoonfuls salad 


^ gill cream 


4 apples. 


2 gherkins. 


oil. 


salt. 


^ beetroot. 


a few capers. 


1 tablespoonful vine- 


pepper. 


1 head of celery. 


2 hard-boiled eggs. 


gar. 


1 teaspoon f I. 



Boil the potatoes, drain, and, wliile still warm, slice them coarsely. Wash and 
trim the celery, cut it into strips. Peel and core the apples, cut them in dice, and 
put them into a basin of cold water until wanted. Scrape the anchovies, wash, and 
split them open. Take out the bones, and cut the fillets into dice ; also the gherkins. 
Place all these ingredients in a salad-bowl, add the capers, season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and mix all well together. Shell the eggs, take out the yolks, and 
rub them through a wire sieve. Put it into a basin, add salt and pepper, add the 
salad-oil to the yolks by degrees, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. When 
quite smooth, stir in the vinegar slowly, add the sugar, mix well ; then add the 
cream. Just before adding the dressing, take the dice of apple out of the water 
and dry them in a cloth. Alix these with the other ingredients, pour the dressing 
over the salad, stir until thoroughly well mixed. Cut the whites of the eggs in 
rings and garnish the salad with them. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and 
serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,985. SALADE DE POIREAUX (LEEK SALAD). 



3 leeks. 

2 tomatoes. 



1 lettuce, 
pepper and salt. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
watercress. 



3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. tarragon. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. parsley. 

Wash the leeks thoroughly in several waters, trim away the roots and reserve 
only the white part. Cut these up into small pieces. Put the tomatoes into boiling 
water for one minute, then dry and peel them carefully, cut into slices, press out 
some of the seeds. Wash the lettuce, break up the leaves, and place them in a 
salad-bowl ; season with salt and pepper. Arrange on this the sliced tomato and 
then the leeks. Chop a few leaves of tarragon, and mix with a little chopped 
parsley. Mix the oil and vinegar together, sprinkle over some salt and pepper, 
add the parsley and tarragon, and pour this dressing over the salad. Shell the egg, 
and cut it in slices or quarters. Wash the watercress, garnish round the salad with 
these, sprinkle the chopped tarragon and parsley over, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



586 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1,986. SALADE A LA GOURMET. 

1 lb. chestnuts. 1 onion. 

1 head of celery. stock. 

1 lettuce. 1 clove. 



1 tomato. I mayonnaise sauce (No. 

parsley. 13-i). 



bouquet garni (No. 194). ' I hard-boiled egg. 

Slit the chestnuts, place them on a baking-sheet, and j)ut in the oven for a few 
minutes until the shell and inner skin can be easily removed ; then put them in a 
stewpan, cover with stock, add the onion stuck with the clove, the bouquet garni, 
and a pinch of salt. Boil until the chestnuts are tender. When done, drain and 
eool. Wash and trim the celery, and cut the white part into thin strips. Wash 
and trim the lettuce and shred it. Slice the chestnuts, put them with the celery 
into a basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix in some mayonnaise sauce. Pile 
the mixture in a salad-bowl and surround it with the shredded lettuce. Cut the 
tomato into slices, shell and slice the egg, garnish the salad with these. Sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley over, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,987. SALADE A LA MOSCOVITE (MOSCOVITE SALAD). 



1| gills mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
2 gills mixed vegetables (i.e., 
carrots, turnips, peas, beans). 



h cauUflower. 

2 gherkins. 

3 tomatoes. 



4 new potatoes. 
1 truffle. 
A beetroot. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 

6 anchovy fillets. 

1 flossertspoonful capers. 



Cut the carrots and turnip into dice, or scoop them out to the shape of peas 
with a round vegetable-scoop ; slice the beans into lozenge shapes. Cook these 
vegetables separately in salted water, drain well. Boil the cauliflower, and after it 
has been drained divide it into sprigs. Cut the tomatoes in slices, and the cooked 
new potatoes into dice. Arrange these different vegetables in layers in a salad- 
bowl, over each layer sprinkle salt and pepper, and season with mayonnaise sauce. 
When all the vegetables have been dressed ia the bowl in the form of a pyrairiid, 
cover with the remainder of the mayonnaise Cut the truffle, gherkins, and beet- 
root into strips, roll the anchovy fillets, chop the white of the hard-boiled egg, and 
pass the yolk through a sieve. Garnish the salad with these respective ingredients, 
using the capers also for the purpose. Serve as soon as the salad is prepared. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



SALADS OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 

1,988. SALADE DE VOLAILLE (CHICKEN SALAD). 

1 cooked chicken. | 2 hard-boiled eggs. pepper and salt. 

2 lettuces. | 1| gills mayonnaise sauce. \ cucumber. 

Cut the meat from the bones, take away the skin and sinews, slice the meat 
into nice-sized pieces. Peel the cucumber, divide in half, take out the seeds, and 
cut in large dice. Put these in a basin, sprinkle over some salt, and let it stand for 
about one hour, then drain. Put into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and 
bring to the boil ; drain well. JVIix the chicken slices and cubes of cucumber together, 
season with salt and pepper, add the mayonnaise, and mix all thoroughly. Dress 
the salad in a pile in a salad-bowl, arranging it alternately with lettuce-leaves 
broken into small pieces; season each layer with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise. 
Pour the remainder of the sauce over the salad, garnish round the dish with the 
hearts of the lettuces, cut in suitable pieces, the eggs cut in quarters, and arranged 
alternately. Serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, 4s. Time require^. 1^ hours. Seasonable, March to November. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



SALADES (SALADS) 587 

1,989. SALADE DE VOLAILLE ET JAMBON (CHICKEN AND HAM SALAD). 



4 ozs. cooked chicken. 
1 head of celery. 
4 ozs. cooked ham. 



pepper and salt. 
3 potatoes. 
2 lettuces. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 

3 tomatoes, 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

Wash the celery, take away the outside leaves, and cut the white part into 
shreds. Cut the ham, chicken, and potatoes into strips, not too fine. Put these 
ingredients into a basin, season them with salt and pepper, and add sufficient 
mayonnaise sauce to bind. Wash the lettuces, divide the leaves, arrange the best 
^f these over the bottom of a salad-bowl. i\Iix the salad well, and dress it on the 
iettuce-leaves. Dip the tomatoes in boiling water, skin them carefully, cut them 
in quarters, press out some of the seeds. Shell the eggs, and chop them rather 
coarsely. Garnish the salad with the quartered tomatoes and groups of chopped 
eggs arranged alternately round the base of the salad. The garnish should be 
ready prepared before the salad is mixed, so that there may be no delay. It should 
be served as soon as it is prepared. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
March. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

1,990. SALADE DE GIBIER (GAME SALAD). 



oold game. 1 ^ beetroot. I mayonnaise sauce. 

2 lettuces. ; 2 hard-boiled eggs. | salt. 



pepper, 
chopped parsley. 



Remove the skin and bones from the remains of any kind of cold game ; cut the 
meat into dice. Wash the lettuces, remove the outside leaves, cut up the lettuces 
or break them into small pieces. Peel the beetroot, cut some slices, and then with 
a fancy cutter stamp out some stars or crescents for decoration. Now arrange the 
lettuce and game in alternate layers in a salad-bowl, seasoning each layer with salt, 
pepper, and mayonnaise. Arrange in a pyramid form, pour the remainder of the 
mayonnaise over, and garnish round the dish with the beetroot stars and the hard- 
boiled eggs cut in slices. Sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is., exclusive of game. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1,991. SALADE DE BCEUF (BEEF SALAD). 



a few slices of cold i salt. | 2 lettuces. 



roast beef. 1 popper. I ^ beetroot. salad dressing (No. 1,941). 



horseradish. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
chopped parsley. 



Cut the slices of cold beef into strips. Trim the lettuces, and break them into 
pieces, or cut in small shreds. Wash well, and drain. Put the lettuce into a cloth, 
and dry thoroughly. Mix the strips of beef and lettuce in a salad-bowl with the 
salad dressing, season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut the beetroot in sHces, 
stamp out some stars or crescents with an ornamental cutter. Shell the hard^ 
boiled egg, cut it in slices. Wash and scrape the horseradish, arrange the garnish 
in alternate groups round the salad, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. 
Serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of meat. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,992. SALADE DE JAMBON (HAM SALAD). 



a few slices of cooked 
ham. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. I J beetroot. 



2 lettuces. 

salad dressing (No. 1,941). 1 bunch watercress. | seasoning. 

Cut the ham into small dice (this is a good way of using up scraps of ham when 
there is not sufficient left to cut nice slices) ; trim the lettuces, cut the leaves small, 
wash and drain, dry in a cloth. Mix the ham and shredded lettuces together in a 
basin, season to taste, add the salad-dressing, and mix all well together. Dress 
the salad in a salad-bowl, piling it in the centre. Shell the eggs, cut them in quarters, 



588 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

wash the watercress and slice the beetroot. Stamp out the latter with a fancy 
cutter, arrange this garnish round the salad in alternate groups. Serve at once. 

Average cost without the ham, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, 
March to October. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

1,993. SALADE DE GIBIER ET CELERI (SALAD OF GAME AND CELERY). 

1 roasted ijartridge. | gill mayonnaise sauce I salt. i 1 tablespoonful cream. 

1 stick of celery. (No. 134). I pepper. | | beetroot. 

Roast the partridge for twenty minutes (it must on no account be overdone) ; 
let it get cold, then take the meat ofE the bones, using only the breast and wings. 
Remove the skin, and cut the meat into fine strips. Trim the root of the celery, 
take away the outside leaves, w*,sh the white part thoroughly, then cut it into 
strips the same size as the strips of partridge. Mix these together in a salad-bowl, 
and season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix the cream into the mayonnaise 
sauce, pour this over the salad, stir all carefully together until thoroughly mixed. 
Garnish with beetroot, and serve as soon as it is mixed. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

1,994. SALADE DE VOLAILLE EN ASPIC (CHICKEN SALAD IN ASPIC). 



cooked chicken. 

1 truffle. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



aspic jelly (No. 251). 
J lb. red ox-tongue. 
6 olives. 



1 lettuce. 
J gill cream. 



1 gill French beans. 

^ gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

1 oz. butter. 



J cucumber. 

Mince 2 ozs. of the tongue, which should be very red, pound it in a mortar with 
1 oz. of butter, add a little cream and seasoning. Rub this through a fine sieve. 
Stone six Spanish olives, fill them with the tongue mixture (this is best done with 
a forcing-bag and pipe). Line a plain border-mould with a thin coating of aspic 
jelly ; let this set. Cut out some small rounds of truffle with a plain cutter ; also 
of hard-boiled white of egg and tongue. Decorate the bottom of the mould in the 
following way : Cut the stuffed olives into slices, place one of these slices on the 
bottom of the mould, round it arrange a ring of truffle-rounds, touching the olive 
and joining each other. Next arrange in the same way another slice of olive sur- 
rounded with rounds of white of egg, the rounds of egg to touch the truffle sur- 
rounding the first olive ; then a third slice of olive garnished in the same way with 
rounds of tongue. Continue in this way until the bottom of the mould is covered. 
Set the decorations in with aspic, then proceed to ornament the sides of the mould 
in the same way. Put a layer of jelly over, and place the mould on ice to get quite 
firm. Cut the chicken, the trimmings of truffle, tongue, and egg in julienne strips 
or dice ; peel the cucumber, cook the beans, and let the latter cool. Cut them in 
strips, put these ingredients into a basin, season with pepper and salt. Add the 
remainder of the cream to the mayonnaise, stir it into the chicken mixture, add 
enough aspic to set the salad. Fill the decorated mould with this salad, put on 
ice, and let set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, turn on to a 
cold dish, fill the centre with a nicely prepared lettuce-salad, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, March to November. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,995. SALADE DE BCEUF A LA TOMATE (BEEF SALAD WITH TOMATOES). 



6 slices of boiled beef. salt. 



watercress. 



salad dressing (No. 1,941). 
3 tomatoes. I pepper. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Cut the slices of boiled beef into nice pieces, thinly cut ; slice the tomatoes, 
take out the seeds. Put the pieces of beef in a salad-bowl, then the slices of tomato 
on the top. Season with salt and pepper, pour over some salad dressing, mix all 
well together. Shell the eggs, cut them in quarters ; wash the watercress well ; 



SALADES (SALADS) 589 

garnish round the base of the salad with the quartered eggs and the watercress, 
sprinkle the parsley over the salad, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd., exclusive of beef. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable 
all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



p'pper and salt, 
parsley. 



1,996. SALADE A L^ECARLATE (TONGUE SALAD). 

1 lb. tongue. 2 hai"d- boiled eggs. 

2 lettuces. mayonnaise sauce (No. ISi). 

Slice three-quarters of the tongue thinly ; out of the reoaainder cut some rounds 
with an inch cutter. Take the centre out of the rounds with a smaller cutter, pass 
the trimmings through a tine mincer. Shell the eggs, take out the yolks carefully, 
without breaking the whites, rub the yolks through a sieve, and cut the whites in 
rings. Wash the lettuces, break up the leaves, put a layer of pieces of tongue in a 
salad-bowl, place the lettuce on the top, pour over some mayonnaise sauce, season 
with salt and pepper. Mix all well together, pile up in the centre of the bowl. 
Decorate the salad with alternate rings of tongue and white of egg round the base 
of the salad. Arrange the sieved yolk of egg and the minced tongue in alternate 
groups, sprinkle over the yolks a little chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable aU the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1,997. SALADE DE LAPIN (RABBIT SALAD). 



1 rabbit. 

3 tablespoonfuls oil. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



1 small onion. I 2 large lettuces. 



chopped parsley, 
pepper and salt. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
J beetroot. 



1 gill mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 134). 

2 anchovies. 



Cook the rabbit, and, when cold, cut it into neat, small slices. jVIix together in 
a deep dish the oil, vinegar, the onion sliced, a httle chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper. Put the pieces of rabbit in this, and let them soak in it for an hour, basting 
them occasionally during that time. Wash the lettuces well, keep the best of the 
leaves of one for garnish, and shred the remainder. Arrange half of this at the 
bottom of a salad-bowl, place the pieces of rabbit on the top. Wash and fillet the 
anchovies, cut them in dice, also one of the eggs. Sprinkle these over the meat, 
add a little shredded beetroot, put the rest of the lettuce on the top, pour the 
mayomiaise over, and garnish the dish with leaves of lettuce, hard-boiled 
egg cut in slices, and some slices of beetroot. Serve as soon as the mayon- 
naise is added. The salad could be arranged all but the sauce, and that added 
just when required. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

1,998. SALADE CHASSEUR. 



breast of 1 chicken. 



2 tomatoes. 



pepper and salt. 



^ beetroot. 
3 cold potatoes. celery. 2 sour apples. mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

Take the cooked fillets from the breast of a chicken, cut it in dice. Cut the 
tomatoes, cold potatoes, and celery in the same way ; also a few shces of beetroot 
-and the peeled and cored apples. Put all these ingredients mto a basin, season 
them with salt and pepper, add the sauce, and mix all well together. Dish in a 
salad-bowl, garnish with slices of beetroot and curled celery, sprinkle over a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, exclusive of chicken, Is. Time required, thirty minutes. Season- 
able, September to February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

To Curl Celery. 
Cut the celery in pieces, cut these into very fine strips without quite separating 
them at the bottom. Place these pieces in cold water, letting them remain in it 
for some hours, so that the strips may curl. 



590 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



oil. 

vinegar. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



1,999. SALADE DE PERDREAU (PARTRIDGE SALAD). 

cold roast partridge. 2 gherkins. 
2 cabbage lettuces. salt, 

chopped parsley. pepper. 

Cut the meat off the bones of the partridge, take away the skin, and slice the 
meat into nice pieces. Put these pieces into a deep dish, and pour over some oil 
And vinegar. Let it soak in this for half an hour. Wash the lettuces, pull the 
leaves apart, and arrange them on a dish. Chop the gherkins finely, mix this and 
some chopped parsley with the meat, and dress on the lettuce-leaves. Garnish 
round with quarters of hard-boiled eggs. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February, Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,000. SALADE DE CANARD (DUCK SALAD). 



J cooked duck. 
1 lettuce, 
salt. 



pepper. 

rind of 1 sour orange. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



1 bunch watercress, 
mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 134). 



6 oHves. 

2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

The remains of a cold duck can be used for this dish. Cut the meat from the 
bones, leaving on the skin. Cut the pieces of duck into strips or dice, put them 
into a basin, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour the vinegar over, then the oil, and 
let it remain for half an hour or longer. Peel the orange very thinly, taking care 
not to remove any of the white pith. Cut this rind into julienne strips, boil them 
in salted water for fifteen minutes, drain, and cool. Wash the lettuce and cress, 
drain, and dry in a cloth. Break the lettuce into small pieces, arrange this and 
the cress in a salad-bowl. Take the pieces of duck out of the oil and vinegar and 
drain them in a cloth. Arrange these on the lettuce in the bowl. After making 
the mayonnaise, stir into it the greater part of the cooked orange-rind, pour this 
over the salad, so that it is thinly covered, sprinkle over the top the remaining 
orange-rind. Garnish the dish with the stoned olives and the hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters. Serve at once. 

Average cost, exclusive of the duck. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 3 persons. 

FISH SALADS 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
2 lettuces. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
1 truffle. 



2,001. SALADE DE HOMARD EN ASPIC (LOBSTER SALAD WITH ASPIC). 

1 lobster. 

aspic jelly (No. 251). 

Line a plain border-mould with aspic jelly. Cut the truffle into slices, and then 
into fancy patterns. Shell the eggs, and cut them into slices lengthways. Split 
the lobster down the back, break the claws, and take out the meat (the meat from 
the claws should be removed whole, if possible). Put the latter aside for future 
use. Decorate the mould with slices of hard-boiled egg, truffle, and some of the 
red part of the lobster. Cut the remainder of the lobster into dice. Wash the 
lettuces, trim and cut one into shreds. Put this into a basin, mix in half the dice 
of lobster, the trimmings of egg, and truffle. Season with salt and pepper, and 
mix in just sufficient mayonnaise sauce to bmd. Fill up the decorated mould with 
this nearly to the top, put over a layes of aspic jelly, place on ice, and let set. Cut 
the remaining lettuce into shreds, mix in with it the rest of the lobster dice, season 
with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot 
water, turn out on to a round dish, fill the centre with the prepared salad, and 
garnish the latter with the claws cut in nice pieces. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, April to October. 
Suffioient for 6 persons. 



SALADES (SALADS) 



591 



2,002. SALADE DE HOMARD (LOBSTER SALAD). 

1 lobster. ( 3 lettuces. | 2 hcard-boiled eggs. | pepper. | salt. | 2 gills mayonnaise sauce (No. 134), 
Procure a hen lobster ready cooked, split it down the back, crack the claws, 
and remove all the meat from the shells. Any coral that there may be put aside 
for garnish. Cut the lobster-meat in dice, reserving the best parts of the claws 
for future use. Wash the lettuces, break them up into small pieces, arrange a 
layer of the lettuce in a salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper ; then put a layer 
of lobster, pour over some maj'onnaise. Continue in this way with layers of the 
different ingredients, piling the salad into the form of a p;>Tamid. When arranged, 
cover with mayonnaise sauce. Wash, dry, and rub the coral through a sieve. Cut 
the hard-boiled eggs in slices. Garnish the salad with the heart of one of the lettuces, 
cut in pieces, the slices of egg, the pieces of lobster-claw, and the coral. Serve at once! 
Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, May to September. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 138. — Salade de Homard. 



2,003. SALADE DE HOMARD AUX POMMES DE TERRE (LOBSTER AND 

POTATO SALAD). 



1 lobster. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



salt, 
pepper. 



cold potatoes. 
1 lettuce. 



salad dressing (No. 
1,941). 



Split the cooked lobster down the back, break the claws, and take out the meat. 
Cut it into dice. Have ready an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes, also cut 
in dice. Shell the eggs, cut them in slices, then into small pieces. Mix these in a 
Balad-bowl, season with salt and pepper, pour over some salad-dressing, stir until 
all is thoroughly mixed. Pile up high, wash and shred the lettuce, arrange this 
round the salad, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, April to October. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,004. SALADE DE CREVETTES. 

pepper and salt, 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 

After the shrimps are picked, put them Into a basin, season with salt and pepper, 
and dress with sufficient mayonnaise to season. Wash the lettuces, break them up, 
arrange them in a salad-bowl. Put the prepared shrimps in a pile in the centre 
PT. \^^. , 38 



1 pint picked shrimps. 

2 lettuces. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
■R-atercress. 



592 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



of the lettuce, pour over a little more mayonnaise, garnish round with the hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters and sprigs of fresh and well-washed watercress. Serve 
at once. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,005. SALADE DE SAUMON (SALMON MAYONNAISE). 



2 lbs. cooked salmon. 

3 lettuces. 



^ pint mayonnaise sauce 



salt, 
pepper. 



2 hard-boiled eggs, 
cucumber. 



(No. 134). 

Free the salmon from skin and bone, flake it into small pieces, season with salt 
and pepper. Wash the lettuces, remove the outside leaves, and reserve the hearts 
of the lettuces for garnish. Cut or break up the remaining leaves into small pieces 
Arrange some of this in the bottom of a salad-bowl, season it with salt and pepper, 
pour over a little mayonnaise, then put a layer of salmon, seasoning, and a little 
sauce. Continue in this way until the ingredients are used up, piling them in 
pyramid form. Over the top pour the remainder of the mayonnaise. Rub the 
yolks of the eggs through a sieve, chop the whites rather coarsely. Sprinkle some 
of the yolks over the top of the salad. Cut the hearts of the lettuces into con- 
venient pieces, garnish round the dish alternately with them, the cucumber cut in 
slices, and little groups of chopped white of egg and yolk. Serve as soon as the 
salad is mixed. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, February *-o 
October. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 




Fig. 139. — Salai>e de Saumon. 



2,006. 

1 medium-sized trout. 

1 bay-leaf. 

2 cloves. 



SALADE DE TRUITE (TROUT SALAD). 

pepper and salt. 3 anchovies. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. \ gill mayonnaise sauce 

1 lettuce. 



6 peppercorns, 
oil. 



vmegar. 



(No. 134). 



Place the trout in a fish-kettle with the bay-leaf, cloves, peppercorns, and a 
little salt. Cover it with water, and simmer gently until cooked. Take it up, 
drain, and cool. Remove the skin and bones, and flake the flesh. Put the fish 
into a dish, pour over it some vinegar and oil, and let it stand for one hour. Wash 
the lettuce, trim, and drain ; dry it well in a cloth. Shell the eggs, and cut them 
in slices. Shred or break the leaves of the lettuce into small pieces, put this into 



SALADES (SALADS) 



593 



a salad-bowl, drain the fish, and arrange it on the lettuce. Pour the raayonnaise 
sauce over. Garnish round the salad with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Fillet the 
anchovies, and garnish with these also. Serve as soon as the salad is ready. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 1 h hours. Seasonable, February to September. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



2,007. SALADE DE FILETS DE SOLES (FILLETS OF SOLE SALAD). 



2 soles. 
1 shallot, 
vinegar. 



h gill sherry. 
I gill fish-stock. 
h oz. butter. 



oil. 1 bunch watercress. I salt, 

parsley. 2 hard-boiled eggs. pepper. 

1 lettuce. mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). | tarrag"on. 

Fillet the soles, put the bones in a ste^vpan, cover with water, and stew gently 
on the fu-e for twenty minutes, then strain. Fold the fillets of soles in halves, 
butter a baking-tin, arrange the fillets on it, pour over the wine and ^ gill of the 
fish-stock, season with salt and pepper. Butter a piece of paper, place it over the 
fish, put the tin m the oven, and cook for ten mmutes. When done, remove the 
fillets from the tin on to a plate, and let them get cold, then divide into small pieces. 
Put them in a dish, season with salt and pepper. Chop the shallot, a few leaves 
of tarragon, and parsley. Sprinkle these over the fish, pour over equal parts of 
vinegar and oil, and let it steep in this for one hour. Wash the lettuce and water- 
cress, drain well, and dry. Pour the hquor off the soles, break the lettuce and 
watercress into small pieces, put this into a salad-bowl, add the fish to it, then 
some salad dressing. ]\Iix all well together, season to taste. Shell the eggs, cut 
them in slices, and arrange them round the salad. Serve quickly, as soon as the 
salad is mixed. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 



2, 



1 hard-boiled egg. 

2 ozs. butter. 



anchovy paste, 
8 ohves. 



5,008. SALADE DE SARDINES (SARDINE SALAD). 

12 sardines. salt. vinegar. 

2 lettuces. pepper. 1 tablespoonful capers. 

Scrape the sardmes free from scales, slit them down the back, take out the bone, 
and cut the fillets into strips. Put these into a basin with the capers, pour over them 
about a tablespoonful of vinegar and some of the oil that the sardines were pre- 
served in ; season with salt and pepper. Wash the lettuces, trim away the outside 
leaves, cut the heart of one in quarters and put on one side for decoration. Shred 
the other lettuce into small pieces, mix with the sardines, stir all well together. 
Stone eight large Spanish olives carefully, so as not to break the olive, IMix together 
the butter with sufficient anchovy paste to colour and flavour ; put this into a 
mortar, add to it the hard-boiled yolk of egg, pound all well together, and rub 
through a wire sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a rose pipe attached, 
and fill the stoned olives with it. Dress the salad in a bowl, pile it in the centre, 
garnish round with the heart of the lettuce and the stoned olives. Serve the salad 
as soon as it is mixed. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
chopped parsley, 
paprika pepper. 



2,009. SALADE DE CRABE (CRAB SALAD). 

1 large crab. 2 tablespoonfuls salad oiL 

salt. mustard. 

pepper. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Procure a large crab. Put the meat into a basin, crack the claws, take out the 

flesh, and divide it into small pieces ; add to the rest of the meat. Mix the oil, 

vinegar, a little mustard, pepper, and salt together ; pour it over the crab, stir 

38—2 



594 



THE IDEAL COOKEBY BOOK 



ftll well together until thoroughly mixed. Wash the shell of the crab, and fill it 
with the dressed crab. Smooth the surface, and decorate it with the yolk of egg 
rubbed tlirough a sieve, the chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. I)ish up, and 
/* garnish with parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



2,010. SALADE A LA CAROLINE (RICE AND SHRIMP SALAD). 



4 ozs. Carolina rice. 

1 gill picked shrimps. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



1 lettuce. 

salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 



pepper. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

chopped parsley. 



Cook the rice in plenty of fast boiling salted water in the same way as for curry. 
vVhen done, drain, dry, and let it get cold. Mix the rice and shrimps together in 
a basin, season with salt and pepper. Stir together in another basin the oil and 
vinegar ; pour this over the rice and shrimps. Mix well, dress in a salad-bowl in 
a pile. SheU the hard-boiled eggs, wash and trim the lettuce. Put a border of 
lettuce-leaves round the salad, cut the eggs in slices, and decorate the salad with 
these and a little chopped parsley. Serve as soon as the salad is mixed. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 140. — Salads a la Carounb. 



6 scallops. 

1 stick of celery. 



2,011. SALADE DE PETONCLES (SCALLOP SALAD). 

salt. mayonnaise sauce 

pepper. (No. 134). 

Trim the celery, take away all the outside leaves, cut the heart into strips. 
Cook the scallops in their own liquor, and let them get cold ; then cut each in foul 
pieces, put them into a basin, mix in the celery, season with salt and pepper, and 
add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to bind and season the salad. Dish in a salad- 
bowl, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




X 

o 
Z 

O 



SALADES (SALADS) 595 

2,012. SALADE D'ECREVISSES (PRAWN SALAD). 



24 pravms. 

1 tablespoonful capers. 



mayonnaise sauce 
(Xo. 134). 



salt. 1 cucumber, 

pepper. parsley. 

Shell the prawns, put them into a basin with the capers, peel the cucumber, cut 
it in half, take out the seeds, and cut in sUces. Add the greater part of it to the 
prawns, mix well with sufficient mayonnaise to bind the ingredients, season with 
salt and pepper. Dress the salad in a bowl, garnish round with sHces of cucumber, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
October. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,013. SALADE AUX HUITRES. 



12 large oysters. 
1 head of celery, 
salt. 



pepper. 

J gill mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 134). 



^ gill cream. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

parsley. 



Take the beards off the oysters, put the latter into a stewpan with their own 
liquor, just bring to the boil, then drain and cut each oyster into quarters. Wash 
the celery, take away the outside leaves, cut the heart into small pieces, put them 
into a basin, season with salt and pepper. Add the oysters ; whip the cream lightly, 
stir it into the maj^onnaise ; pour this over the ingredients in the basin ; mix all 
thoroughly together. Dish in a salad-bowl in a pile, sprinkle some chopped parsley 
over the top, shell the egg and cut it into slices ; garnish round the salad with these, 
and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



SOUR FRUIT SALADS 



4 sour oranges. 
1 lemon. 



1 tablespoonful salad 
oil. 



2,014. ORANGE SALAD. 

salt, 
pepper. 

Peel the oranges, carefully remove every bit of white skin, cut in slices, and take 
away the pips. Arrange the slices in a dish in layers, sprinkling each layer with 
salt and pepper. Squeeze the juice of the lemon over the fruit, add the oil, and 
serve. This salad is suitable for serving with roast game and ducks. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
February. Suificient for 6 persons. 

2,015. SALADE DE CERISES (CHERRY SALAD). 



1 lb. cherries. 
1 tablespoonful salad 
oil. 



1 tablespoonful brandy. 
1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon 
and chervil. 



a few drops of tarragon 

vinegar, 
pinch of sugar. 



Fresh cooking cherries or preserved glace cherries can be used for this purpose. 
If fresh cherries are used, stone them and crack the nuts. Take out the kernels, 
put them into a basin with the cherries, add the brandy, the tarragon vinegar, and 
the salad oil. Mix all well together, stir in the chopped herbs and the sugar, mix 
thoroughly. Dish and serve with roast game or duck. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, June to August, 
if fresh fruit is used. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



596 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,016. SALADE DE RAISINS (GRAPE SALAD). 



1 lb. grapes. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 



1 teaspoonful lemon- 
juice. 



tarragon, 
chervil. 



1 tablespoonful cognac. 
1 teaspoonful castor sugar. 

Peel the grapes, which should not be too sweet ; take out the pips carefully, so 
as not to break the fruit ; put the grapes into a basin ; add the brandy, the lemon- 
juice, salad oil, and castor sugar. Chop very finely a few tarragon and chervil- 
leaves ; sprinkle these over the salad. Mix all well together, and serve in a small 
salad-bowl. This is an excellent addition to roast quails and other kinds of game. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
April. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



2,017. SALADE DE MELON (MELON SALAD). 



1 melon. 



1 dessertspoonful vinegar. 



cayenne, 
pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonfuls oil. juice of J lemon. 

Peel the melon, take away the hard part, cut the remainder into slices, remove 
the seeds. Dress the slices in a dish, and a few minutes before serving pour over 
them the vinegar and lemon-juice, then the oil ; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, June to October. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

SANDWICHES "" 

2.018. HAM SANDWICHES. 

bread and butter. | ^ lb. ham. | mustard. 

Cut six thin slices of bread and butter from a stale tin loaf (one day old). Each 
slice should be about | inch in thickness. Cut some very thin slices of ham, remove 
most of the fat ; spread these slices on one of the slices of bread and butter, season 
rather highly with made mustard, place another slice of bread and butter on the 
top. Press together with the hand to make them adhere, cut into small squares, 
remove the crust, and then dish up on a folded napkin. The crust of the bread 
can be left on if preferred, but if it is removed the sandwiches are much neater. 
Average cost, 9d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2.019. BEEF SANDWICHES. 

bread and butter. | J lb. roast beef. | mustard. | salt. | pepper. 

Cut six thin slices of stale bread and butter, about ^ inch thick, and remove the 
crust. Cut some thin slices of roast beef, remove the gristle and some of the fat. 
Lay these slices on three of the pieces of bread and butter, season with pepper and 
salt, and made mustard. Cover with the other pieces of bread and butter, press 
them well together, and then cut into small squares or triangles. Dish them in a 
pile on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,020. TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

J lb. ox-tongue. | bread and butter. | salt. | pepper. | mustard. 

Cut six thin slices of bread and butter, about | inch thick. Cut the ox-tongue 
into thin slices, and lay them on three of the pieces of bread and butter. Season 
with salt, pepper, and made mustard. Cover with the other slices of bread and 
butter, press them well together, remove the crusts, and cut into small squares or 
triangles. Dish them in a pile on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, lOd. Time reqmred, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,021. BACON SANDWICHES. 

^ lb. streaky bacon. | stale bread. 

Cut about six slices of stale bread, ^ inch in thickness. Do not butter them. 
Cut the bacon in thin slices, remove the rind, and then fry in the usual manner in 
a frying-pan. As soon as the bacon is cooked, lay it on three of the slices of bread, 
cover with the other three slices, and press together. The bacon must not be allowed 
to get the least bit cold before putting between the slices of bread or the sandwiches 
will be dry. Press the sandwiches under a light weight until perfectly cold, then 
remove the crusts, and cut into small squares or triangles. Dish in a pile on a 
napkin. These sandwiches are most delicious, as the fat from the bacon soaks into 
the bread, taking the place of the butter. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

697 



598 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,022. POTTED MEAT SANDWICHES. 
6 thin slices of brer.d and butter. | potted meat of any kind. 

Cut the bread and butter \ inch in thickness, spread three of the slices with a ^ 
layer of potted meat, cover with the other slices, and press weU together. Remove 
the crusts and then cut into small squares or triangles. Dish on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable aU the year. 

2,023. CHICKEN AND HAM SANDWICHES. 

3 ozs. cold chicken. Bechamel sauce (No. 4). I 8 slices of thin bread and butter. 

1 oz. cooked ham. mustard. | salt. 

Mince the chicken and ham finely, put into a mortar with a little made mustard, 
a pinch of salt, and enough Bechamel sauce to make it into a paste. Pound until 
quite smooth, then spread between slices of bread and butter. Press lightly together, 
and cut into small squares or triangles. Dish up on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

■ 2,024. FOIE-GRAS SANDWICHES. 

1 jar foie-gras. | parsley. | thin slices of bread and butter. 

Turn the foie-gras out of the jar, scrape away all the fat, and then cut into thin 
slices. Cut the bread and butter thinly, place the slices of foie-gras between, press 
together lightly, and cut into small fancy shapes. Dish on a folded napkin, and 
garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



6 thin slices of bread and 
butter. 



2.025. COLNBROOK SANDWICHES. 

5 ozs. boiled beef. [ 1 oz. butter. 

jDcppcr. I 1 oz. of pickled cabbage. 

Mince 3 ozs. of the beef very finely, having some of the beef fat with it. Put it 
into a mortar with the butter and a pinch of pepper ; pound until quite smooth. 
Spread this on three of the slices of bread and butter. Cut the remaining 2 ozs. of 
boiled beef into very fine shreds, also the pickled cabbage. Put these two in- 
gredients on the top of the slices, already spread. Cover with more bread and butter, 
press well together, and cut into small squares. Dish on a napkin. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2.026. INDIAN HAM SANDWICHES. 

^ lb. ham. | 3 ozs. butter. | chutney. | cayenne pepper. | bread and butter. 

Mince the ham finely, put it into a mortar with the butter and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Pound until quite fine, then spread on bread and butter with a thin layer 
of chutney on the top. Cover with more bread and butter, press together, and cut 
in fancy patterns. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,027. CHEESE SANDWICHES (1). 

3 ozs. cheese. salt. I 6 slices of bread and 

2 ozs. butter. ! 1 teaspoonful made mustard, j butter. 

Chop the cheese finely, put it into a mortar with the butter, mustard, and a 
pinch of salt. Pound until quite smooth, then spread between thin slices of bread 
and butter. Press together, and cut into small fancy shapes. Dish on a napkin. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



SANDWICHES 599 

2,028. CHEESE SANDWICHES (2). 

IJ ozs. Parmesan cheese. salt. parsley. 

^ gill cream. I cayenne pepper. 6 thin slices of bread and butter. 

Grate the Parmesan cheese. Whip the cream rather stiffly, stir in the grated 
cheese, salt, and cayenne pepper. Spread this mixture between the slices of bread, 
press lightly, and cut into small fancy shapes. Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish 
with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,029. EGG SANDWICHES. 



4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

1 oz. butter. 



6 thin slices of byead and butter. 



pepper and salt. parsley. 

Chit the bread and butter from a stale tin loaf, each slice to be | inch in thickness. 
Shell the hard-boiled eggs, chop them finely, and put into a mortar with the butter, 
cream, pepper, and salt. Pound until quite smooth, then spread three of the slices 
of bread with a layer of the egg mixture ; cover with the other slices, press well 
together, and cut into small squares or triangles. Dish up on a folded napkin, and 
garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,030. EGG AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 6 thin slices of bread and butter. 

1 oz. anchovy jiaste. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Shell the eggs, chop them finely, and put into a mortar with the anchovy paste 
and cream. Pound together until quite smooth. Cut the bread and butter in 
slices i inch in thickness. Spread three of them with the egg and anchovy mixture, 
cover with the other slices, press well together, and cut into small squares. Dish 
on a napkin in a pile. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



3 tomatoes. 

mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 



6 slices of bread and butter. 

salt. 



2,031. TOMATO SANDWICHES. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, 
cayenne. 

Mix the anchovy sauce into the mayonnaise ; season with salt and cayenne 
pepper. Skin the tomatoes and cut in slices. Spread a layer of the anchovy 
mayonnaise over the bread and butter, and place the sliced tomatoes between. 
Cut into squares or fingers, and dish on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



2,032. MUSHROOM SANDWICHES. 



10 mushrooms. 
2 tomatoes. 
1 shallot. 



^ oz. breadcrumbs. 

1 gill milk. 

8 thin shces of bread and butler. 



1 yolk of egg. 

salt. 

cayenne pepper. 

Peel and chop the mushrooms, put them mto a saucepan with the chopped 
tomatoes, peeled and chopped shallot, the breadcrumbs, and milk. Cook these over 
the fixe until the mushrooms are tender, then bind it with one yolk of egg, season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. Do not let it boil after the egg is added. Rub the 
mixture through a fine sieve, and leave until cold. Spread it between the bread and 
butter, press together, and cut into neat pieces. Dish on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



600 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,033. WATERCRESS SANDWICHES. 

1 bundle watercress. | salt. | 8 slices of thin bread and butter. 

Cut the bread and butter in slices about \ inch in thickness. Wash the water- 
cress thoroughly in salted water, cut ofE most of the stalks, and then dry the cress 
in a cloth. It is important to dry the watercress well or the sandwiches will be 
sodden. Put a layer over four of the slices of bread and butter, season well with 
salt, and cover with the other slices of bread. Press theiii well together, cut them 
into neat shapes, and dish in a pile on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,034. MUSTARD AND CRESS SANDWICHES. 

mustard and cress. | salt. | 8 slices of thin bread and butter. 

Cut the bread and butter in slices \ inch in thickness. Well wash and dry the 
mustard and cress, and cut off some of the stalks. Spread rather a thick layer of 
it on four slices of the bread and butter, sprinkle with salt, and cover the other with 
the other pieces of bread and butter. Press well together, and cut into neat shapes. 
Dish in a pile on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,035. CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

J cucumber. ( salt. | pepper. | bread and butter. | parsley. 

Peel the cucumber and cut it in rather thin slices. Cut the bread and butter 
in slices ^ inch in thickness. Stamp out circles from each slice with a cutter the 
same size as the rounds of cucumber. Place a slice of cucumber on one of these 
circles, season with pepper and salt, and cover with another round of bread and 
butter. Press well together, and dish on a folded napkin in piles, one on the top 
of the other. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, March to 
September. 

2,036. LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

1 small lettuce. | salt. | parsley. | bread and butter. 

Cut the bread and butter in slices \ inch in thickness. Well wash and dry the 
lettuce ; break each leaf apart, and shred finely. Put a layer of lettuce over the bread 
and butter, season with salt, and cover with another slice of bread and butter. 
Press well together, remove the crusts, and cut into small triangles. Dish up on 
a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,037. SANDWICHES OF GAME AND CELERY. 

salt. 



cooked game, 
bread and butter. 



celery. 

tartare sauce (No. 143). pepper. 

Cut some thin slices of bread and butter about | inch thick. Remove skin, 
sinews, and bone from any kind of cold, cooked game ; cut it into thin slices. Wash 
a little of the white part of the celery, shred it finely ; put this into a basin, season 
with salt a,nd pepper, and add sufficient tartare sauce to bind and season. Spread 
half the slices with a thin layer of the celery mixture. On this arrange thin slices 
of game, season with salt and pepper ; place another slice of bread and butter on 
each, press lightly together, trim off the crusts, cut the slices in rounds, triangles, 
squares, or any other fancy shape desired. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish 
paper, garnish with watercress, and serve. 

Average cost, without game, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, 
September to February. 



J lb. cold partridge. j 2 chopped mushrooms. 

I gill stifE salmi sauce. | salt. 



pepper. 

bread and butter. 



SANDWICHES 601 

2.038. SANDWICHES DE PERDREAU (PARTRIDGE SANDWICHES). 

watercress. 
J oz. butter. 

Remove all skin and bone from the partridge, take a ^ pound of the meat, mince 
it finely. Chop the mushrooms, melt i oz. of butter ui a stewpan, put in the mush- 
rooms,' and cook them over the fire. When done, add the minced meat, stir in the 
sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir until it is all thoroughly mixed. 
Turn the mixture on to a plate and let it cool. Cut some.thin slices of bread and 
butter, spread the prepared mince over half the slices, put another slice over each, 
press lightly with the fingers to make the two adhere, trim off the crust, and cut the 
slices into squares, rounds, triangles, or any other fancy shapes desired. Dish up 
on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with watercress, and serve. 

Average cost, exclusive of partridge, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Season- 
able, September to February. 

2.039. SANDWICHES A L'AMERICAINE (AMERICAN SANDWICHES). 

J lb. cooked ham. 1 dessertspoonful capers and 1 tablespoonful cream. I pepper 



1 oz. butter. 



slices of bread and butter. mustard. 



olives. 

Chop the ham finely, mince the capers and the stoned olives, sufficient to make 
one teaspoonful of each. Put the ham, butter, and seasoning of pepper and salt 
into a mortar, pound well together until a smooth paste is formed, then mix in the 
cream, stir until well mixed. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread the 
paste over, sprinkle a Uttle of the chopped capers and olives over. Put another 
slice of bread and butter over each. Press the two slices lightly together, trim off 
the crusts, and cut the slices into squares, or triangles, or any shape desired. Dish 
up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and 
serve. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 

2,040. SANDWICHES AUX SARDINES ET TOMATES (SARDINE AND 

TOMATO SANDWICHES). 

6 sardines. 

3 or 4 tomatoes. 

Skin the sardines, wipe and slit them open, remove the bones, put them into 
a mortar with the butter ; add salt and cayenne to taste, pound well until a smooth 
paste ; pass this through a wire sieve. Put the tomatoes into boiling water for one 
minute, take them out of the water, dry and skin them. Cut in slices, sprinkle 
over them a little salt and pepper. Cut some thin slices of white bread and butter, 
spread the sardine paste over half the slices, place over this some slices of tomato ; 
put another piece of bread and butter on the top of each, press lightly together in 
order that the slices may adhere, trim off the crusts, and cut the sandwiches into 
squares, triangles, ovals, or any other fancy shapes that may be desired. Dish up 
on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Id. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 



cayerme. I 1 oz. butter. 

salt. slices of bread and butter. 



4 ozs. cooked chicken. 
2 ozs. cooked ham. 
2 hard-boiled yolks. 



pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

bread and butter. 



2,041. SANDWICHES A LA PRINCESSE (PRINCESS SANDWICHES). 

1 oz. butter. 

1 oz. grated cheese. 

mustard. 

Remove gristle, skin, and bone from the chicken meat, take 4 ozs. of this, mince 
it and the ham finely. Put it into a mortar, add the hard-boiled yolks, butter, 
grated cheese, salt, pepper, and mustard ; pound all well together, then rub the 
mixture through a wire sieve ; place the puree in a basin, and mix the cream with it. 
Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread the paste on half of them ; put another 



602 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

slice of bread and butter over each, press lightly with the fingers in order to nicake 
the slices adhere. Trim off the crusts, cut the sandwiches in rounds, triangles, ovals, 
or any other fancy shapes desired. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, 
garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is., exclusive of the chicken. Time required, 20 minutes. Season- 
able all the year. 

2,042. SANDWICHES AU CAVIAR (CAVIARE SANDWICHES). 
caviare. | lemon-juice. | cayenne. | bread and butter. | parsley. 
Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, mix the caviare with some lemon-juice 
and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Spread this over half the slices of bread and butter. 
Place another shce over each. Press together lightly so that they may adhere, 
trim off the crust, cut the sandwiches in squares, rounds, triangles, or any other 
fancy shapes. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of 
fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year 

2,043. SANDWICHES A LA SICILIENNE. 

watercress. 
1^ ozs. butter. 

Wipe the sardines, scrape them in order to remove the skin, open them and take 
out the bone. Shell the eggs, chop finely, put them into a mortar with the sardine 
fillets and the butter. Pound all well together, season to taste, and rub the mixture 
through a fine sieve. Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, spread the 
preparation on half the slices, place the other slices on the top, so as to form sand- 
wiches ; press the two slices together, cut off the crusts and shape into squares or 
rounds. Dish up on a folded napkin in a pile, and garnish w^ith sprigs of water- 
cress. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,044. SANDWICHES DE VOLAILLE ET NOIX (CHICKEN AND NUT 

SANDWICHES). 



6 sardines. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 



salt. I brown bread, 

pepper. | fresh butter. 



4 ozs. cooked chicken. 
2 ozs. shelled walnuts. 



bread. j fresh butter. 

parsley. | 1 tablespoonful cream. 



salt. 1 oz. butter, 

pepper. 1 oz. cooked ham. 

Mince the chicken and ham finely, put into a mortar and pound well ; then add 
the cream ; season with salt and pepper. When the mixture is quite smooth, turn 
it on to a plate. Put the walnuts into a stewpan and blanch, then drain and skin 
them. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread the chicken mixture on 
half the slices, arrange the walnuts over. Put another slice of bread and butter over 
each, press the slices together, trim off the crust, and cut into squares or rounds. 
Dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, exclusive of chicken, 9d. Thiie required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, 
September to December. 

2,045. SA'NDWICHES A LA TURQUE (TURKISH SANDWICHES). 



3 hard-boiled eggs. 
^ gill shrimps. 
3 anchovies. 



2 ozs. butter. 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise stale bread, 

salt. sauce. butter, 

pepj^er. mustard. watercress. 

Shell the eggs, chop and pound them in a mortar with the boned anchovies, 
the butter, and the shrimps ; pound together until a smooth paste, then season 
with salt, pepper, and mustard ; bind the mixture with the mayonnaise, and mix 
thoroughly. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread the mixture on the 
slices of bread until it is all used up, then cover each with another slice. Press together, 
trim off the crusts, and cut into squares, rounds, triangles, or any other fancy shape. 
Dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



SANDWICHES 603 



cayenne. 

1 tablespoonful mayonnaise 
sauce (No. 134). 



bread. 

fresh butter, 
parsley. 



2,046. SANDWICHES A LA SUISSE. 

pommel cheese. 
6 ohves. 
2 gherkins. 

Chit some thin slices of bread and butter. Stone the olives, chop them and the 
gherkins finely, season with a little cayenne, mix them with the mayonnaise sauce. 
Spread this mixture on half the slices of bread. Put a laj^er of pommel cheese over 
the mayonnaise mixture, cover with the remaining hah-slices, one on each, and 
press together. Trim off the crusts, cut the slices in squares, rounds, triangles, 
ovals, or fingers, according to taste. Dish up in a pile on a folded napkin, garnish 
with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 

2,047. GRUYERE SANDWICHES. 

I lb. Gruyere cheese. I mustard. j fresh butter, 
pepper and salt. | stale bread. | watercress. 

Cut some thin slices of bread and butter. Slice the cheese very thinly, and 
spread it on half of the slices of bread and butter. Season with salt, pepper, and 
a little mustard. Over this put a layer of watercress-leaves that have been well 
washed and dried. Put a slice of bread and butter on the top of each, press the 
sHces together ; trim off the crusts, cut in squares or any fancy shapes. Dish up, 
garnish with watercress, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at- all times. 



1 tablespoonful mayonnaise 

sauce (No, 134). 
salt. 



pepper, 
stale bread, 
butter. 



2.048. CUCUMBER AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

J cucumber. 
1 lettuce, 
parsley. 

Cut some thin slices of bread and butter. Peel the cucumber thinly, cut it in 
slices, and then into strips. Wash the heart of the lettuce, drji|r it thoroughly, then 
shred finely. Put this with the cucumber into a basin, season with salt and pepper, 
and mix in the sauce. Stir all well together. Put this mixture on half of the slices 
of bread, place another slice of bread and butter on each, press together; trim 
off the crust, and cut the sUces into rounds, squares, or any fancy shape. Dish up, 
garnish them with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, March to Sep- 
tember. 

2.049. CUCUMBER AND TONGUE SANDWICHES. 



1 cucumber. | pepper and salt. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

2 ozs. ox-tongue. I ^ gill mayonnaise. 



butter, 
chopped parsley. 



bread. 

Peel the cucumber thinl}^, cut it in quarters lengthways, and remove the seeds. 
Chop it finely. INIix the cream with the mayonnaise, season with salt and pepper, 
stir in the chopped cucumber and a little chopped parsley. Spread this mixture 
on some slices of bread and butter, arrange over some shredded ox-tongue. Place 
another slice of bread and butter on the top of each, and press the slices together, 
trim off the crust, cut the slices in fancy shapes. Dish up, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, March to Sep- 
tember. 

2,050. WALNUT SANDWICHES. 



bread and butter. 



i gill mayormaise ' fauce 2 ozs. shelled walnuts. I pepper. 

salt. watercress. 



1 tablespoonful cream. (No. 134). 

Cut some slices of bread and butter. Put the walnuts into a saucepan, cover 
with water, bring to the boil, drain and skin them, cut them into thin slices. Mix 
the cream with the mayonnaise sauce, season with salt and pepper ; spread this on 



604 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

half the sHces of bread, put a layer of sliced ^yahiuts on the dressing, place a slice 
of bread and butter over each, press lightly, trim oS the crust, and cut into any 
fancy shape. Dish up, garnish with watercress, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
December. 

2,051. WALNUT AND CELERY SANDWICHES. 



bread. 



1 tablespoonful cream- 



celery. I i gill mayonnaise sauee." 

2 ozs. shelled walnuts. | pepper and salt. butter. watercress or parsley. 

Wash two or three sticks of the white part of a head of celery, dry, and chop it 
finely. Blanch the walnuts, drain, and skin them. Chop them rather coarsely. 
Mix the celery and walnuts together in a basin, add to them the mayonnaise, cream, 
salt and pepper. Mix all together thoroughly. Cut some thin slices of bread and 
butter, spread over half the slices a layer of the mixture, put another slice of bread 
and butter on the top of each, press lightly together, trim off the crust, and cut 
into nice pieces — squares, fingers, triangles, or rounds, or any other fancy shape. 
Dish up, garnish with parsley or watercress, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
December. 

2,052. SANDWICHES A LA CHASSEUR (GAME SANDWICHES). 

1 lb. cold game. j 1 oz. butter. | salt. bread and butter. 

2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. | 1 tablespoonful whipped cream. I pepper. parsley. 

Take away all bone, gristle, and skin from some cold game (any kind). IMince 
sufficient to make \ lb. Put this into a mortar with two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 
1 oz. of butter, salt and pepper. Pound all well together until it becomes a smooth 
paste, then add the cream. IMix thoroughly. Have ready some slices of bread 
and butter, spread the prepared mixture on half the slices, cover each with another 
slice of bread and butter, press lightly so as to join them, trim off the crust, cut 
in rounds, triangles, or squares, or any fancy shape that may be desired. Dish up, 
and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, exclusive of game, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to February. 

2,053. SANDWICHES AUX HUITRES (OYSTER SANDWICHES). 

9 large oysters. lemon -juice. I pepper and salt. 



1 oz. butter. 



shces of brown bread and 
butter. 



cayenne. I parsley. 

Put the oysters with their own liquor into a small stewpan, bring them up to 
the boil (do not let them actually boil, or they will become tough and indigestible). 
Drain them, and take off the beards, put the oysters into a mortar with 1 oz. of 
butter, add a seasoning of lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. 
Pound all together until it becomes a smooth paste. Cut some thin slices of brown 
bread and butter, spread a layer of the mixture on half the slices, place another 
slice of bread and butter on each, press lightly together, so that the two shces may 
adhere ; trim off the crust, and cut the sandwiches into rounds, squares, triangles, 
fingers, or any fancy shapes. Dish the sandwiches on a folded napkin arranged 
on a plate, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September tc 
April. 

2,054. FISH SANDWICHES. 



J lb. cold fish. tartare sauce (No. 



1 lettuce. 



143). 



salt, 
parsley. 



6 thin shoes of bread and 
butter. 



Chop the fish fmely, removing all skin and bones. Mix with it enough tartare 
sauce to make a smooth paste ; season with salt. Spread this mixture on three of 
the slices of bread and butter, lay some well-washed lettuce-leaves on the top, 



SANDWICHES 605 

cover with the remaining slices of bread and butter. Press lightly together, and 
out into fancy shapes. Dish on a napkin, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 
Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



2,055. HADDOCK SANDWICHES. 



1 small dried haddock. 
Ih 0Z3. butter. 



1 tablespoonful grated cheese, 
salt. 



8 thin slices of bread and 
butter. 



Boil the dried haddock, then remove all the skin and bones. Chop the flesh 
finely, put it into a mortar with the butter, cheese, and salt. Pound thoroughly, 
addiiig more butter if required. Spread this between the slices of bread, press 
together, and cut in small squares. Dish on a napkin or dish-paper. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, all the year. 



3 sardines. 
Ih ozs. butter. 



2,056. SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

salt. I parsley. 

cayenne pepper. | 8 shoes of brown bread and butter. 

Take the sardines out of the oil, take away all the skin and bones, then chop 
them finely. Put them into a mortar with the butter, and pound until quite 
smooth. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Cut the brown bread into thin 
slices, spread half of them with the sardine mixture, cover with the other shces, 
press well together, and then cut into finger shapes. Dish them on a folded napkin, 
and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,057. ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 



6 slices of bread and 
butter. 



parsley, 

6 anchovies. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
lA ozs. butter. 



Wash the anchovies in cold water, remove the scales and bones. Put the flesh 
into a mortar with the butter and yolk of hard-boiled egg. Pound until quite 
smooth. Spread it on the bread and butter, cover with another sHce of bread and 
butter. Press together, and cut into small squares. Dish in a pile on a napkin. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



2,058. SHRIMP SANDWICHES. 

J pint of shelled shrimps. ^ teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 

cayenne pepper. 



8 thin shces of bread and 
butter. 



^ teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Chop the shrimps finely, put them into a mortar with the lemon, anchovy sauce, 
and a good pinch of cayenne pepper. Pound these ingredients until quite smooth, 
then spread it between the slices of bread. Press well together, cut into small 
shapes, and dish on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



2,059. SALMON SANDWICHES. 



8 thin shcea of bread 
and butter. 



i lb. cooked salmon. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, j cucumber. 

I teaspoonful lemon-juice. pepper and salt. | cayenne. 

Remove all skin and bones from the salmon, put it into a mortar, and pound 
with the lemon-juice, anchovy sauce, cayenne, salt and pepper. When weU mixed, 
spread it rather thinly on four of the slices of bread and butter. Peel the cucumber, 
cut in thin slices, and then in shreds. Put this on the top of the salmon, cover 
with the other bread and butter, press firmly together, and cut into small fancy 
shapes. Dish in a pile on a folded napkin. 

Average cost, la. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, February to 
August. 



606 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,060. ANCHOVY AND CRESS SANDWICHES. 

10 anchovies. 5 hard-boiled eggs, j 8 shoes of bread and butter, 

mustard and cress. cayenne. | parsley. 

Wash the anchovies in cold water, bone them, divide in halves, and then cut 
into strips. Shell the hard-boiled eggs, cut them in thin slices. Wash the mustard 
and cress, cut ofi some of the stalks, and chop the rest coarsely. Cut the bread and 
butter in thin slices, spread a layer of sliced egg over half the slices, season with 
cayenne pepper ; place some of the anchovy strips on the eggs, and over all scatter 
some of the chopped mustard and cress. Cover with the other slices of bread and 
butter, press firmly together, and cut out in small fancy patterns. Dish up on a 
folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

2,061. ANCHOVY AND OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

3 anchovies. | 12 olives. | cayenne. | 6 thin shces of bread and butter. 

Wash and bone the anchovies, put them in a mortar, and pound well. Stone 
the ohves, chop them finely, and mix into the anchovies with a little cayenne pepper. 
Spread this mixture on three of the slices of bread and butter, cover with the other 
three, and press together firmly. Cut out in fancy shapes, and dish in a pile on a 
folded napkin or dish-paper. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



2,062. LOBSTER MAYONNAISE SANDWICHES. 



1 lobster, 
watercress. 



salt. 

cayenne pepper. 



8 thin shces of bread 
and butter. 



mayonnaise sauce (No. 134). 
1 teaspoonful chopped chervil. 

Chop the lobster finely, put it into a basin, and season with salt and cayenne 
pepper. Mix in sufficient mayonnaise sauce to make it a nice consistency (it must 
be soft enough to spread, but not too moist, or the sandwiches will be sodden). 
Spread this mixture over four of the slices of bread and butter. Wash the water- 
cress, and pick off the leaves. Put a layer of the watercress-leaves on the top of 
the lobster, cover with the remaining slices of bread and butter, cut into fancy 
shapes, and dish up on a folded napkm. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, April to 
October. 

2,063. COD'S ROE SANDWICHES. 



J lb. cod's roe and liver. \ oz. butter. pepper and salt 



i teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



parsley. 



shces of brown bread 
and butter. 



2 shallots. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan ; chop the shallots finely, add them to the butter, 
and fry a golden colour. Boil the cod's roe and liver, cut into small pieces, add this- 
to the fried shallots, stir in the parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together, 
turn into a mortar, and pound well. Rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Cut 
some thin shces of brown bread and butter, spread the paste on half the slices. 
Place another piece of bread and butter on each, and press lightly; trim off the 
crust, cut the sandwiches into squares, rounds, or triangles. Bish up on a folded, 
napkin, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the spring. 

2,064. SANDWICHES AU SAUMON FUME (SMOKED SALMON SANDWICHES). 
shces of bread and butter. | smoked salmon. | anchovy paste. | parsley. 

Out some thin slices of bread and butter, spread with anchovy paste. Cut the 
aalmon in thin slices, lay these over half the slices. Place another slice of bread and 
butter on each, press together, trim off the crusts, cut each shce in squares, rounds, or 
ftny shape desired. Dish up, and garnish with parsley. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 




o 

c 



J2 

E 
o 

I- 



SANDWICHED 607 

2,065. JAM SANDWICHES. 

slices of bread and butter. | jam (any kind). | cream. 

Cut some slices of bread and butter about ^ inch thick, spread half of these slices 
with a thin layer of any kind of jam, whip some cream, and place a thin coating 
over the jam. Place another slice of bread over each, press the two slices lightly 
together, trim off the crust, and cut the sandwiches into squares, rounds, or 
fingers. Dish up, and serve. 

Time required, 10 minutes. 

2,066. FRUIT SANDWICHES. 
1 Genoese cake (stale). | pineapple or apricots. | whipped cream. | castor sugar. 
Cut the cake into thin slices, also the fruit. Arrange the latter on half of the 
pieces of cake, sprinkle over a little castor sugar. Whip the cream, spread a layer 
over the fruit ; place another slice of cake on each, and press together. Cut into 
convenient pieces, either rounds, squares, triangles, ovals, or any fancy shapes. 
Dish up on a folded napkin, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 10 to 15 minutes. 



PT. vrn. ^^ 



CHAPTER XXV 

INVALID DISHES 

SiOK-ROOM diet is a most important branch of the science of cookery, and there are 
many rules relating to it which should be carefully observed. The food adminis- 
tered to a patient during convalescence is of the greatest importance, as it is during 
that time that the weakness following on a long and perhaps serious iUness has to 
be combated. The diet prescribed by the doctor should be carefully carried out, 
the food prepared in the daintiest manner, and everything done to stimulate the 
appetite of the patient. The food for an invalid should be prepared as wanted, 
and made in small quantities ; should be nourishing and hght, as the patient, being 
weak, it is necessary that the diet be such as can be taken without much expenditure 
of energy or strain on the digestion. 

During convalescence the patient often expresses a wish for a certain kind of 
food. This is often an instinct of nature, and should not be disregarded, but, if 
possible, the wish gratified. Give nourishment to an invalid in small quantities, 
and frequently ; vary the diet as much as is allowed. In preparing food for an 
invaUd, one is apt to give the same dishes day after day without variation until it 
is no wonder the appetite at last becomes an unknown quantity. Those who are 
in health rebel against want of variety in food ; how much more necessary for those 
who are weak, and with little desire for food, that they should have change in the 
diet supplied to them. There are many ways in which variety can be given, even 
in beef-tea. It can be made in different ways with a change of flavourings. The 
same principle can be applied to the respective broths. This requires thought and 
knowledge which is not often given to this most important subject. 

2,067. AN INVALID TRAY. 

When preparing a tray for an invaUd, a few necessary rules should be borne in 
mind. Everything on the tray should be spotlessly clean and dainty, the food 
served in small quantities, as there is nothing so likely to spoil the appetite as large 
dishes loaded with food. The dishes should be small, containing just sufficient for 
one person and one meal, the food perfectly cooked, and arranged in such a way 
as to please the eye. Avoid strong-smelling flowers arranged in top-heavy specimen- 
glasses that are Ukely to be knocked over and give the nerves of the patient a shock. 
If flowers are allowed at all, they should be placed in a low glass with a flat, broad 
base, which would be impossible to overturn. A pretty and refreshing arrangement 
for the eye is a few green leaves of fern or other non-smelling leaves placed flat on 
the tray amongst the dishes. The tray illustrated contains a cup of beef-tea, with 
squares of toast to eat with it ; two small fillets of sole steamed in the oven and 
covered with a white sauce ; a little sweet steamed custard, and a glass of lemonade 

2,068. BEEF-TEA (1). 
^ lb. shin of beef. j J pint water. 

Remove all fat and skin from the shin of beef ; put the J pint of water into a 
basin, shred the meat very finely, and put into the water as it is cut. Let this 
stand until the water becomes red, and all the juice of the meat is extracted ; then 

G08 



INVALID DISHES 



609 



put the water and meat into a saucepan, place on a slow fire, and stir until the 
water becomes a brown colour. The beef-tea must on no account be allowed to 
boil. Strain, and add salt if the patient is allowed it. 
Average cost, 5d. Time required, about 20 minutes. 

2,069. BEEF-TEA (2). 
I lb. shin of beef. | ^ pint of water. 

Remove all fat and skin from the shin of beef, shred it very finely, and put into 
a basin containing | pint of water. Let this stand until the water becomes quite 
red, then put it into a stone jar, cover closely, and stand in a saucepan of boiling 
water for about three hours ; then strain it, and serve. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 3| hours. 




Fig. 141. — Invalid Tray. 



I lb. shin of beef. 



2,070. BEEF-TEA (3). 

I lb. veal. I 1 pint water. 
Remove all fat and skin from the meat. Cut both the beef and veal into very 
fine shreds. Put them as they are cut into a basin containing 1 pint of cold water. 
Let this stand until the water becomes red, then pour it into a stone jar, and cover 
closely. Place the jar in the oven for about two hours. Strain it, and serve. 
Average cost. Is. Time required, 2h hours. 

2.071. BEEF-TEA (4). 

2 teaspoonfuls Bovril. | ^ pint water. 

Put the Bovril into a breakfast-cup, pour on to it h pint of boiling water, stir 
until the Bovril is dissolved. It is then ready to serve. This beef-tea is quickly 
and easily made and is very nourishing. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, a few minutes. 

2.072. BEEF-TEA (5). 

2 teaspoonfuls Bovril. | ^ pint milk. 
Put the Bovril into a breakfast-cup, pour on to it | pint of boiling milk, stir it 
until the Bovril is quite dissolved. It is then ready to serve. This beef-tea is 
extremely nourishing and palatable. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, a few minutes. 

39—2 



610 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,073. RAW BEEF-TEA. 

\ lb. shin of beef. | 1 gill water. | pinch of salt. 

Remove all fat and skin from the meat, shred it very finely, and put it into a 
basin containing 1 gill of water. Let this stand for half an hour, then strain it 
through a fine cloth, pressing all the moisture out of the meat. Season with a ' 
;pinch of salt, and serve in a red glass. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,074. BEEF-ESSENCE. 

3 lbs. shin of beef. | 1 lb. veal. | J gill brandy. 

Remove all fat and skin from the meat, cut both the beef and veal into very 
small pieces. Place it in an earthenware jar, add the brandy, and cover the jar 
closely. Stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it cook gently for four or 
five hours. Strain it, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 4 or 5 hours. 

2,075. CHICKEN BROTH. 

1 chicken. | 2 quarts water. | salt. 

Draw the chicken, wash the inside thoroughly, then cut up into small pieces, 
put it into a saucepan, and cover with 2 quarts of water. Put the chicken's feet 
in another pan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. Simmer for a few 
minutes, then strain the water off and skin the feet. If they have been cooked 
enough, the skin should peel off quite easily. Put the feet into the pan with the 
rest of the chicken, also the gizzard, cut and cleaned. Let this broth simmer gently 
for four hours. If vegetables are allowed, an onion and a stick of celery added are 
a great improvement. Season the broth with a little salt, strain it, and remove all 
fat. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable all the year. 



\\ lbs. scrag-end of mutton. 
2 quarts water. 



2,076. MUTTON BROTH. 
1 tablespoonful pearl-barley. 1 large onion. J turnip, 



J carrot. 



salt. 



chopped parsley. 

Cut the meat into small pieces, remove all fat and marrow. Put the mutton 
into a saucepan, cover with 2 quarts of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, add 
the salt, and skim well. Peel the onion and turnip, scrape the carrot, and cut them 
into small pieces. Put these into the soup after it has been well skimmed, also the 
pearl-barley. Let the broth simmer gently for about three hours, then strain it, 
and serve with a little chopped parsley added at the last minute. If vegetables are 
not allowed, the broth must be flavoured only with the pearl-barley. If, however, 
the patient is convalescent, the vegetables need not be strained out, but served in 
the broth. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 3 or 4 hours. Seasonable all the year. 



2,077. VEAL BROTH. 



2 lbs. knuckle of 
veal. 



1 oz. pearl-barley. 
1 carrot. 



1 onion. 

2 quarts water. 

Cut the meat into small pieces. Chop the bone, put the meat and bone into a 
Btewpan with the water, bring it to the boil, skim well, and add the vegetables cut 
in smaU pieces. Let it all simmer gently for three hours. Strain the stock, then 
add the barley, and cook for half an hour. Just before serving add seasoning and 
a little chopped parsley. A 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 4 hours. 



INVALID DISHES 



611 



2,078. A STRENGTHENING SOUP. 

1 calf's foot. I 3 lbs. shin of beef. | 3 quarts water. 

Cut the calf's foot into pieces, also the shin of beef. Put both into a saucepan, 
and cover with 2 quarts of water. Bring it to the boil, skim well, and let it simmer 
very gently until reduced to half. Strain it, season with a little salt, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 3 or 4 hours. 

2,079. BEEF-TEA AND MACARONI. 
^ lb. macaroni. | h pint beef-tea. | | oz. flour. | 1 oz. butter. 
Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water for forty-Uve minutes ; take it up, 
and drain thoroughly. Cut it into pieces about 1 inch in length. Melt the butter 
ill a saucepan, add the flour, moisten with the beef-tea, and stir this over the fire 
until it boils. Put the macaroni mto this thickened beef-tea, and cook for a few 
minutes longer. Turn into a hot dish, and serve. 
Average cost, 7d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,080. CHICKEN JELLY. 
1 chicken. | 1 onion. | 1 carrot. | 1 blade of mace. | salt. 
Cut up the cliicken into joints, put into a stewpan, and cover with cold water ; 
bring to the boil, add salt, and skim well. Clean the vegetables, put them into the 
stock, also the blade of mace. Let this simmer gently for four or five hours. At 
the end of that time strain the stock through a very fine strainer, rinse a mould out 
with cold water, pour the stock in, and put in a cool place to set. When firm, turn 
out and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 4 or 5 hours. 




Fia. 142. — r.EEK Jelly. 



2,031. BEEF JELLY. 
2 lbs. shin of beef. | knuckle of veal. 
Remove all fat from the meat, cut it into small pieces, and cliop the bones. Put 
the me;it and bones in a saucepan, pour over them 1 quart of cold water to each 
pound of meat and bones. Place on the fire and simmer gently for five hours, 
keeping it well skimmed. Season with salt, strain it, and pour into an ornamental 
mould ; put aside to set. Turn out, and se;"ve. 
Average cost, 2s. Gd. Time required, 5 hours. 



612 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,082. STEAMED WHITING, WHITE SAUCE. 



1 whiting. 



pint white sauce (No. 88). 



Skin the whiting, place it in a steamer, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. 
While it is cooking, prepare the white fish sauce. Take the whiting up carefully, so 
as not to break it, and place on a hot dish. Pour the white sauce over, so as to com- 
pletely cover it, put a little round the dish also. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 




Fig. 143. — Steamed Whiting. 



\ lb. whiting-mcat. 
i oz. butter. 



\ oz. flour. 
I gill milk. 



1 egg. 

\ pint white fish sauce (No. 88). 



2,083. WHITING SOUFFLE. 

salt. 

1 tablespoon ful cream. 

Remove all the meat from the whiting, take away all skin and bones, chop the 
meat very finely Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, add the 
milk, and cook over the fire until it is very thick and leaves the sides and bottom 
of the pan quite clean. Put the fish into a mortar, add the panada just prepared, 
also one egg. Pound these together, and then season with salt, and rub through a 
wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, and add to the fish preparation. Well butter 
a small timbale-mould, put in the souffle, press it down, cover with a buttered paper, 
and steam gently for about twenty-five minutes'; Turn out on to a hot dish, pour 
white sauce over it and round. Garnish with a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



\ lb. cooked fish. 
1 oz. butter. 



chopped parsley, 
breadcrumbs. 



2,084. FISH CROQUETTES. 

I oz. flour. I 1 yolk of egg. 
I gill milk. I salt. 

^ Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir over the fire until very 
thick. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, chop it into small pieces, add it 
to the mixture in the saucepan ; also salt, a little chopped parsley, and the yolk of 
An egg. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then turn out on to a plate, and leave 
to cool. Divide into equal portions, shape each into a ball, and egg and breadcrumb 
them. Have ready a pan of very hot fat, drop the croquettes into it, and fry them 
a golden brown colour. Take them up and drain on paper. Arrange them on a 
hot dish on a dish-paper. Garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 balls. 



INVALID DISHES 



613 



2,085. FRIED SOLE. 



1 sole. 
1 egg- 



breadcrumbs, 
flour. 



salt, 
pepper. 



Skin and trim the sole. Put a little flour on a piece of paper, mix with it some 
pepper and salt. Dip the sole into this, covering it all over with the flour, in order 
to dry it ; then egg and breadcrumb and fry it in very hot fat, until a golden brown 
colour. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

2,086. FILLETS OF SOLE WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

1 sole. 1 lemon-juice. | salt. | ^ pint maitre cl'hotel sauoe (No. 109). 

Remove the skin from the sole, fillet it, and then fold each fillet in half, taking 
care that the skin side of the fillet is inside. Place them on a buttered tin, sprinkle 
each with a Httle salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Cover them with a piece of 
buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. Dress them down the 
centre of a hot dish, overlapping one another. Have ready the maitre d'hote) 
sauce, pour it over and round them, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



>, 



■ 


^m^^H 




BI^^^^^^^^H 




' , — *- vf :^ r... ..\^M 


HBj^^ 




^^^K^^'^^I^T^^^^ 


^^^m^^^g 



Fig. 144. — Fillets of Sole with MaItre d'Hotel Sauce. 



lemon -juice, 
breadcrumbs. 



2,087. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

6 oysters. | oz. flour. 

J oz. butter. | gill milk. 

Place the oysters in a saucepan with their own hquor and enough water to 
«over them. Heat them over the fire, but do not on any account allow them to 
boil. Strain them, remove the beards and the hard part of the oysters, cut the 
remainder in halves. Melt the butter m a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, 
and cook over the fire until the sauce boils. Let it simmer for a few minutes, 
add salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; lastly, stir in the oysters. Have ready one 
or two scallop shells, well buttered, turn the oyster mixture into them, sprinkle the 
surface with brown breadcrumbs, and place in the oven for a few minutes. Dish 
on a folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Average co.st, Is. Time required, 30 mi;mtes. Seasonable, September to 
April. 



614 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2.088. STEAMED CHOP. 
1 small mutton chop. 

Trim the chop, removing nearly all the fat ; place it on a soup-plate, cover with 
another plate, and stand them over a saucepan of boilmg water. Place the pan 
on the fire, in order to keep the water boilmg, and let it cook in this way for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, according to the size of the chop. Dish up on a very hot dish, 
and serve immediately. Average cost, 4d. to 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2.089. GRILLED CHOP. 

1 small mutton chop. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). 

Trim the chop, remove some of the fat. Place it on a grill, and put over a clear 
fire. Cook it rather quickly at first, then a little slower. As soon as one side is 
done, turn it, and cook the other side, allowing about five minutes for each side. 
Take it up, place on a hot dish, put a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on the top, and 
serve immediately. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 




Fig. 145,— Savoury Custards. 



2,090. SAVOURY CUSTARDS. 
1 gill stock. I 2 yolks of eggs. | 1 white of egg. | salt. | parsley. 

Put the stock into a saucepan, place it on the fire, and bring to the boil. Beat 
the eggs in a basin, pour the stock on to them, and season shghtly with salt. Well 
butter some small moulds, fill them with the custard, cover with buttered paper, 
and steam very gently for about fifteen minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and 
garnish with a little parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,091. TRIPE WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Jib. tripe. I 1 onion. | 1 carrot. | 1| pints milk. | 1 oz. butter. | | oz. flour. | salt. 

Procure tripe that is ready cleaned, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and 
bring to the boil. Strain off the water, and cut the tripe into neat pieces. Put 
it back into the saucepan, add the milk and the carrot and onion, cleaned but left 
whole. Let this come to the boil, and then simmer gently for two or three hours. 
At the end of that time, if the tripe is tender, take it up. Melt the butter in a 



INVALID DISHES 



615 



saucepan, add the flour, and moisten with i pint of the milk that the tripe was 
cooked in ; stir this over the fire until it boils, season with salt, and then put in 
the pieces of tripe. Let it simmer for ten minutes, then arrange the tripe neatly 
on a hot dish and strain the sauce over. Serve hot. This dish is extremely 
digestible and nourishing. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 3 to 3i hours. 



2,092. CHICKEN CREAMS. 



^ lb. raw chicken-meat. 
I oz. butter. 



salt. 

pepper. 

i pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). 



I gill water, 
legg. 
^ oz. flour. ^ gill cream. 

Remove the skin and sinews from the chicken, then mince it very finely. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and water, stir over the fire until the mixture 
leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Put this panada into a mortar 
with the minced chicken and one small egg, season to taste with pepper and salt. 
Pound the mixture very weD, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Whip the 
cream shghtly and add to the meat when sieved. Well butter two or three small 
dariole-moulds, fill them with the chicken cream, smoothing them over the top with 
a knife. Place them in a steamer, cover with buttered paper and the lid, and let 
them steam gently for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out on to a hot dish ; 
have the Bechamel sauce ready, pour it over and round the moulds. Garnish the 
top of each with a small pinch of chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 2 or 3 moulds. 




Fig. 146. — Fried Whitinq. 



2,093. FRIED WHITING. 
1 whiting. I 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. | flour. | fried parsley. | pepper. | salt. 
Skin and prepare the whiting. Put one large tablespoonful of flour on a piece 
of paper, mix with it some pepper and salt. Put the whiting into it, and cover 
all over with the flour. This is done in order to dry the fish. Beat the egg on a 
plate, dip the whiting into it, and brush over with the egg ; then toss it in the bread- 
crumbs. Fry in a pan of very hot fat until a golden brown colour. Take up and 
drain on paper. Dish on a hot dish on a dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



616 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,094. FISH PIE. 

1 whiting. I Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | cooked potatoes. | butter. I salt. 
Boil the whiting, take it up, let it drain and cool. Remove all skin and bones, 
break the flesh into flakes, but do not chop it. Have some Bechamel sauce ready, 
put the fish into a saucepan, and add just enough of the sauce to make it a nice- 
consistency. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, season with salt, and then 
put into a buttered pie-dish. Rub the potatoes through a sieve, melt a httle butter 
in a saucepan, add the potato, and heat over the fire. Put this on the top of the 
pie, shape it neatly with a fork, and then place in the oven to brown the surface. 
Take it up, place the pie-dish on another dish, and serve hot. This pie can be made 
with any kind of fish, instead of the whiting. 



Average cost, 



7d. Time required. 30 minutes. 




Fig. 147.— Fish Pie. 



2,095. FISH CUTLETS. 

Jib. cold fish. I ^ oz. butter. | ^oz. flour. | ^ gill milk. | 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. 

Chop the fish finely, first removing all skin and bones. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and cook over the fire until the mixture 
leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Add the fish and pepper and salt, 
turn out on to a plate to cool. Shape into cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, 
and fry in very hot fat until a golden brown colour. Take them up, drain on paper, 
and dish on a hot dish on a dish-paper. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



I lb. cooked fish. 
browTi breadcrumbs. 



2,096. FISH PUDDING. 

1 teaspoonful chopped 1 oz. butter. J gill milk. 

parsley. 1 oz. flour. 1 egg. 

• Remove all skin and bones from the fish ; chop the flesh finely. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan, stir in the flour, moisten with the milk, and cook over the fire until 
the mixture leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Add the fish, salt, pepper, 
and parsley, mix these together, then bind with one egg. Well butter a tim bale- 
mould, sprinkle thickly with brown breadcrumbs, and fill with the fish mixture. 
Place in a moderate oven, and cook for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and 
serve immediately. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



INVALID DISHES 



617 



2,097. FRIED SWEETBREAD. 
1 calf's sweetbread. [ 1 egg. | breadcrumbs. | 1 large carrot. | 2 onions. | ^ pint stock. 

Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one hour, then put into a saucepan, cover 
with cold water, and bring to the boil. Strain off the water, remove all fat and 
gristle from the sweetbread, place on a plate or tin, cover with another, put a light 
n-oight on top, and let it press until cold. Clean the carrot, and cut in two or three 
pieces; peel the onions — if they are large, cut them in halves. Put these vegetables 
into a stewpan, add the stock, and lay the sweetbread on the vegetables ; cover with 
buttered paper and the lid of the pan. Let it cook gently for thirty minutes ; 
take it up and allow it to cool. Then cut into neat slices, dip them in beaten egg, 
then in breadcrumbs. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, put in the sweetbreads, 
and cook quickly, turning them over when one side is browned. Dish on a hot 
dish, and garnish with sprigs of fried parsley. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the vear. 



/ 




Fish Pudding. 



2,098. LAMB'S SWEETBREADS, 
i lb. lamb's sweetbreads. | parsley. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce (No. 4). | milk. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for about one hour. Take them up, put 
into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. Strain off the water ; 
return the sweetbreads to the pan, cover with boiling milk, and let them simmer 
gently for twenty minutes. Then take them up, trim them, and remove all fat 
and gristle. Warm the Bechamel sauce in a saucepan, put in the sweetbreads, 
and let them stew gently for ten minutes or until they are perfectly tender. Take 
them up, arrange neatly on a hot dish, and pour some of the sauce over and round 
them. Garnish with a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. Calf's sweetbread 
can be prepared in the same manner, except that it is cut in slices before putting 
into the Bechamel sauce. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, January tc 
August. 

2,099. PULLED CHICKEN. 



peppercorns. 
^ pint stock. 



1 oz. butter. 
J oz. flour. 



1 chicken. I 1 carrot. bouquet garni (No. 

1 onion. | salt. 194). 

Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and cut them in halves. Put these vegetables 
into a saucepan with sufficient water to cook the chicken, add the peppercorns and 
bouquet garni. Place the saucepan on the fire, and bring to the boil; put in the 



618 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

chicken, and cook until tender. When done, take up the chicken and let cool. Take 
all the white meat from the chicken, and pull the flesh into flakes. The legs can be 
used for some other dish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add \ pj'''t 
of the water that the chicken was boiled in, stir over the fire until it boils, then put 
in the pieces of chicken and simmer gently for ten minutes. Season to taste with 
salt, and if liked, add a little chopped parsley. Dish up on a hot dish, and serve. 
For ordinary use the chicken would be improved by being dished m a border of 
mashed potato, but it might not be suitable for an invalid. 
Average cost, 3s. to 3s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,100. BOILED CHICKEN. 



1 tender chicken. 


J small onion. 


1 oz. butter 


\ pint milk. 


slice of carrot. 


1 oz. flour. 


salt. 


6 peppercorns. 


1 bayleaf. 



Truss the chicken for boiling. Put on a saucepan of water. As soon as the 
water comes to the boil, put in the chicken, cover with the lid, and simmer until the 
the bird is cooked. While the chicken is cooking, prepare the sauce. Put the 
milk into a stewpan ; peel the onion, and add it and the carrot to the milk, also 
the peppercorns and bay-leaf. Place the pan on a slow fire, and bring gently to the 
boil. Melt the butter in another small stewpan, and stir in the flour. As soon as 
the milk boils, whisk in the butter and flour. When smooth, take out the whisk 
and stir with a wooden spoon. The sauce should be allowed to simmer gently by 
the side of the fire for at least ten minutes. The bay-leaf must be removed as soon 
as the milk boils, and before the flour is added. Dish the fowl when ready, and 
serve the sauce separately. Just before straining the sauce it should be lightly 
seasoned with salt. The seasoning of dishes for invalids should be done with 
discretion, as highly seasoned dishes are rarely allowed. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. 



\ lb. cold chicken. 
I oz. butter. 



2,101. CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

\ oz. flour. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 



\ gill chicken stock. 



breadcrumbs. 



salt. 



Remove all skin from the chicken, then mince very finely. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan, add the flour, moisten with the stock, and stir over the fire until the 
mixture is very thick and leaves the sides of the pan clear. Add the minced 
chicken and mix thoroughly ; season with salt, and stir in the chopped parsley. 
Turn this mixture on to a plate, and put aside to cool. Then divide into equal 
portions, shape them into balls or cork-shapes, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry 
in very hot fat until a golden brown colour. Take them up, and drain on paper. 
Arrange them on a hot dish on a dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 2d., exclusive of cold chicken. Time required, 30 minutes. 
Sufficient for 6 croquettes. 

2,102. COLLOPS. 

1 oz. butter. | sippets of toast. | ^ lb. beef-steak. | flour. 

Remove all fat and gristle from the steak, then mince very finely. Melt tht 
butter in a saucepan, dredge a Httle flour over the meat and add it to the butter. 
Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then moisten with enough water to make it a 
nice consistency (rather liquid). Season with salt, and cook for a few minutes 
longer. Turn on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toast. Average cost, Gd. 
Time required, 15 minutes. 



INVALID DISHES 



619 



2,103. GRUEL. 

1 tablespoonful fine oatmeal. | ^ pint milk or water. 

Mix the oatmeal with a little of the milk or water. Put the rest into a saucepan, 
and bring to the boil. Pour on to the mixed oatmeal, return to the saucepan, and 
boil for ten miimtes, keeping it well stirred all the time. Add salt or sugar, which- 
ever is preferred. 

Average cost, lid. Time required, 15 minutes. 

2,104. ARROWROOT. 

1 level dessertspoonful arrowroot. | J pint milk. | sugar. 

Put the arrowroot into a basin and mix to a smooth paste with a little of the 
milk. Put the rest of the milk into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Stir it on to 
the arrowroot, return to the saucepan, and let it simmer for ten minutes, keeping 
it stirred all the time. Add sugar to taste and a little flavouring, if allowed. 

Average cost, l|d. Time required, 15 minutes. 




Fio. 149. — Poached Eggs in Milk. 



2,105. POACHED EGGS IN MILK. 
2 eggs. I milk. | buttered toast. | salt. 
Put sufficient milk into a saute-pan to cover the eggs, add a pinch of salt, break 
the eggs (these must be new-laid) into a cup one at a time, slip them into the boiling 
milk and cook them until set. Baste the eggs with the milk while cooking. They will 
take about four minutes to poach. When done, lift them out carefully with a slice, 
allow them to drain for a minute, then trim round with a cutter. Place each egg 
on a small round of buttered toast, and serve very hot. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 to 15 minutes. 

2,106. ARROWROOT WITH PORT-WINE. 

1 teaspoonful arrowroot. | J pint boiling water. | sugar to taste. | 1 glass port-wine. 

Mix the arrowroot in a basin with sufficient cold water to make it into a smooth 
paste. As soon as the | pint of water boils, pour it on the arrowroot, stirring 
quickly ; return it to the saucepan and let it simmer for a few minutes, stirring 
meanwhile. Take it off the fire, sweeten to taste, and add the wine. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 



620 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,107. RAW BEEF SANDWICHES. 
4 ozs. raw beef. | bread and butter. | salt. | pepper. j parsley. 

Procure 4 ozs. of fillet or rump-steak, shred it finely, sprinkle a little salt and 
pepper over, and mix all together. Cut some very thin slices of bread and butter, 
spread the meat on one slice, place another on the top, press together, trim off the 
crust, cut into small squares. Dish up on a folded d'oyley, garnish with sprigs of 
fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. or 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 small 
square sandwiches. 

2,108. BREAD AND MILK. 



bread. 



pint milk. 



pinch of salt. 



Cut a slice of stale bread, trim off the crust, and cut it into small even-sized 
squares. Sufficient of these should be prepared to half fill a breakfast-cup. Put 
the milk into an enamelled saucepan, add to it a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, tlicn 
pour it over the bread ; return all to the saucepan, place on the fire, and simmer for 
one minute. Pour it into the cup, and serve. Sugar can be used" instead of salt, if 
preferred. 

Average cost, Id. Time required, 10 minutes. 




Fig. 150. — Apple Jellies. 



2,109. APPLE JELLIES. 
2 lbs. apples. ) 5 ozs. loaf sugar. | 1 oz. gelatine. | 1 lemon. 1 3 gills water. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them in small pieces, put them into a stewpan 
with the sugar, 3 gills of water, and the grated rind of one lemon. Put this on the 
fire and cook gently until the apples are quite tender. Then rub them through a 
hair sieve, mix in the juice of one lemon and the gelatine melted in a little water. 
Rinse some small moulds in cold water, pour in the apple jelly, and put them aside 
to set. When quite firm, turn out on a glass dish, and serve. If liked, the jellies 
can be coloured pink with a little cochineal. 

N.B. — The quantity of sugar depends on the apples, whether they are sweet 
or sour, and is also a matter of taste. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year (best 
in winter). Sufficient for 4 small moulds. 



INVALID DISHES 



621 



2,110. LEMON JELLY. 



1| pints water, 
rind of 2 lemons. 



1 pint lemon-juice. 

2 ozs. gelatine. 



small piece of cinnamon. 
3 cloves. 



6 ozs. loaf sugar. 

whites and shells of 2 eggs. 



Peel the lemons very thinly, taking care not to take away with li; any of the 
white pith underneath, as this would make the jelly bitter. Beat the whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, wash and crush the egg-shells ; put these with all the rest of the 
ingredients into a large stewpan, place it on the fire, and stir until the gelatine is 
melted, then whisk until it boils. Let it boil up, take it off the fire, and let it settle 
for five minutes. Fix a clean kitchen cloth on to a soup-stand, or the cloth can be 
tied by the four corners to the legs of a chair turned upside down. Place a basin 
underneath, pour some boiling water through the cloth. Empty this away, put the 
basin under again, and pour the jelly into the cloth ; if not clear, put the jelly through 
again. The jelly must not be stirred while it is running through the cloth. As 
soon as the jelly is strained it can be moulded, and, when set, is ready for use. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 1^ pint mould. 



f 





PpHj 


PI^H 




HhI 


'^VH 




p 


'^^^^^^^^^^H 




I^^^H 



Fig. 151. — Calf's Foot Jelly. 



2 eggs. 



3 ozs. sugar. 



2,111. CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

1 calf's foot. I 2 lemons. cinnamon. 

2 quarts cold water. | 2 cloves. 1 gilJ sherry. 

Chop the foot into three or four pieces, put them into a saucepan of cold water, 
And bring to the boil. Strain them, return to the saucepan, and add the two quarts 
of cold water. Let this simmer very gently for seven or eight hours, keeping it 
very well skimmed all the time. Strain through a fine sieve, and put aside to cool. 
Remove any fat there may be on the stock, or the jelly will not clear. When 
quite cold, put the stock into a clean saucepan, add the sugar, the thinly-peeled 
rind of the lemons, and the juice, the cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon. Whij> 
the whites of the eggs and add to the jelly, also the egg-shells crushed. Pat the 
pan on the fire and whisk until the jelly boils ; let it simmer a few minutes, then 
add the sherry and boil once more. Have ready a clean cloth, scalded in boiling 
water, pour the jelly through this. Strain the jelly more than once if it does not 
run through clear. Rinse a jelly- mould in cold water, pour in the calf's foot jelly, 
and put in a cool place to set. Turn out on a glass dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 3d Time required, 8 hours to make the stock, about 45 minutes 
to clear. 



622 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,112. EGG JELLY. 

2 lemons. | 4 yolks of eggs. | 5 ozs. sugar. | 1 pint water. ] 1 oz. gelatine. 

Peel the lemons very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the white pith. 
Squeeze the juice of the lemons into a basin, add the lemon-peel and | pint of water. 
Melt the gelatine in the other J pint of water ; when dissolved, stir in the sugar. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs in a basin, pour the gelatine water on to them ; return 
to the saucepan, and stir over a slow fire until the eggs are cooked. It must not be 
allowed to boil or the eggs will curdle. Pour this mixture on to the lemon- water 
in the basin. Rinse a jelly-mould with cold water, strain the egg jelly into it through 
a fine strainer. Put in a cool place to set. When firm, turn out on a glass dish, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 



I pint port-wine. 
I pint water. 
1 clove. 



1 small piece of cinnamon. 
1 oz. sugar. 
1 lemon. 



2,113. PORT-WINE JELLY. 

1 tablespoonful red-currant jelly. 

1 oz. gelatine. 

2 whites of eggs. 

Peel the lemon very thinly, put it into a saucepan, add the water, gelatine, 
sugar, clove, cinnamon, red-currant jelly, and the juice of the lemon. Whip the 
whites of the eggs and add to the jelly, also the crushed egg-shells. Place the pan 
on the fire and stir until the gelatine is melted, then whisk until it boils. When 
boiling, pour in the port-wine, bring it up to the boil again, and let it simmer for a 
few minutes. Have ready a clean cloth, scalded with boiling water, pour the 
jelly through this until clear. If the jelly is not a good colour, a few drops of 
cochineal can be added before straining. Rinse a jelly-mould in cold water, fill 
with the port-wine jelly, and put in a cool place to set. When firm, dip the mould 
in a basin of warm water and turn out quickly on to a glass dish. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,114. ORANGE JELLY. 
J pint water. | \ pint orange-juice. | rind of 3 oranges. | \ lemon. | 1 oz. gelatine. | 3 ozs. loaf sugar. 

Peel the rind of three oranges very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the 
pith. Put the orange and lemon rind, water, sugar, and gelatine in a saucepan ; stir 
over the fire until the gelatine is melted, then let it simmer gently for ten minutes. 
Add the | pint of orange-juice and the juice of half a lemon. Rinse a jelly-mould in 
cold water, and strain the jelly into it through a fine strainer. Put in a cool place 
to set. Turn out on a glass dish, and serve. A little sherry can be added to this 
jelly in place of the lemon-juice. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,115. BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. 
\ pint milk. | ^ oz. sugar. | 3 yolks of eggs. | 2 whites of eggs. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, bring nearly to boiling-point. Beat 
the eggs in a basin, stir the hot milk on them, and flavour with almond, lemon, or 
vanilla. Pour the custard into a pie-dish, place in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold. If cooked too quickly, this pudding 
will be watery. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,116. MILK JELLY. 

1 pint milk. | 1 lemon. | 2 ozs. sugar. | \ oz. gelatine. 

Peel the rind of the lemon very thinly, put it into a saucepan with the sugar 

and milk. Put the pan over a very slow fire, and let them stand until the milk is 

well flavoured with the lemon. Add the gelatine, and stir over the fire until it is 



INVALID DISHES 



623 



melted. The jelly must not be allowed to boil after the gelatine is added or it 
will curdle. Strain into a basin, and stir occasionally until nearly cold. Pour the 
mixture into a mould, and, when quite set, turn out and serve. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,117. PRUNE JELLY. 
8 ozs. prunes. | J pint water. ( 1 lemon. | 1 oz. sugar. | J oz. gelatine. 

Put the prunes in a stewpan with the sugar, water, and the rind of the lemon 
peeled very thinly. Place the stcAvpan on the fire, bring to the boil, and stew 
gently until the prunes are quite soft. Pass the prunes with their juice through a 
sieve into a basin. Melt the gelatine in a little water, stir it over the fire until 
quite dissolved, then add it to the sieved fruit. Squeeze the lemon, and strain the 
juice to the mixture. Rinse out several small moulds or one large one with cold 
water, pour in the jelly, and let it set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm 
water, and quickly turn on to a dish. It can be served quite plain or with cream. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



¥■ 




Fig. 152. — Souffle Omelette. 



2,118. SOUFFLE OMELET. 

2 yolks of eggs. I | oz. sugar. | J oz. butter. | jam. | 3 whites of eggs. | few drops of vanilla essence. 
Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs into two basins, two yolks in one, 
three whites in the other. Add the sugar to the yolks, and beat them well with a 
fork ; then add the vanilla, or any kind of flavouring that is preferred. Whisk the 
whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir them lightly to the yolks. Melt the butter 
in an omelet-pan, and, when it is hot, pour in the egg-mixture, spread it evenly 
over the pan, put it on a slow fire, and leave it there without stirring for three 
minutes. After that time put the pan into the oven to brown the top for another 
three minutes. Have ready a piece of paper thickly sprinkled with sugar, and 
about one tablespoonful of any kind of jam heated in a ste-vvpan. As soon as the 
omelet is ready, take it out of the oven, turn it out quickly upside down on to the 
sugared paper, put the jam over half of the omelet, fold the other haK over. Dish 
up quickly on a hot dish, dust sugar over it, and send to table at once. These 
omelets should be made just as they are wanted, and not allowed to wait, as they 
go down as soon as they come from the oven. 

Average cost, 5d. or 6d. Time required, 12 to 15 minutes. 

PT. VIII. 40 



624 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,119. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

2 ozs. tapioca. | 1 pint milk. | 1 egg. | 1 oz. sugar. 

Put tlie milk into a saucepan to boil. When boiling, sprinkle in the tapioca, 

and cook until it is tender. Beat the egg in a basin, mix it with the tapioca, also 

the sugar. Pour into a buttered pie-dish, and cook in a slow oven for half an hour. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,120. INVALID BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. 



slices of bread and butter. 
1 pint milk. 



\ oz. butter. 



2 eggs. 



1 oz. loaf sugar, 
f lemon-rind. 



Cut the bread and butter in thin slices, cut these in suitable pieces. Butter a 
pie-dish well, and arrange the pieces of bread and butter in it. The dish should 
not be filled too full. Put the milk into a stewpan with the sugar and thinly-peeled 
lemon-rind, place the pan on the fire, and let it come slowly to the boil. Beat the 
eggs well, let the milk go off the boil, and cool for a minute or two, then strain it 
on to the eggs. Pour this over the bread and butter, and place in a moderate oven 
until it sets and colours on the top. It will take about twenty minutes to bake. 
The pudding can be served either in the dish or turned out on to a flat dish, and 
dusted over with sugar. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 40 minutes. 




Fig. 153. — Arrowroot Pudding. 



2,121. ARROWROOT PUDDING. 

1 dessertspoonful arrowroot. 1 yolk of egg. 

I pint milk. 1 lemon. 



3 whites of eggs. 
J oz. sugar. 



Mix the arrowroot with a little of the milk until it is a smooth paste. Put the 
rest of the milk into a stewpan with the sugar, bring it to the boil, and then stir 
it on to the arrowroot. Return to the saucepan, and let it simmer for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Let it cool a little, then stir in the yolk of egg and the grated 
rind of the lem©n. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake for ten to 
fifteen minutes. While it is baking, whip the three whites of eggs very stiffly, and, 
when the pudding is cooked, pile the whipped whites on the top of it, making it as 
rough-looking as possible, Bredge with a little castor sugar, and return to the 
oven to set the whites and to become a pale brown. Take up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



INVALID DISHES 



625 



2,122. STEAMED CUSTARD. 



4 yolks of eggs. [ 2 whites of eggs. | 



1 oz. sugar. 



any kind of flavouring. [ ^ pint milk. 

Put the four yolks and two whites of eggs in a basin, beat them well together 
with a fork. Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar, and if lemon-rind is 
used to flavour, add that also. Place the pan on the fire, and bring slowly to the 
boil ; then take it off the fire, and let it cool a little. Add it to the eggs, and mix. 
Butter some little moulds, fill them with the mixture, cover with buttered paper, 
arrange the moulds in a steamer, put on the lid, and steam slowly over the fire for 
fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, lift them out of the steamer, turn the 
custards out of the moulds on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient to fill 5 or 6 httle 
moulds. ♦ 




Fig. 154. — Irish-Moss Blancmange. 



2,123. IRISH-MOSS BLANCMANGE, 
f oz. Irish moss. | 1^ pints milk. | 1 lemon. | 1^ ozs. sugar. 

Wash the moss thoroughly in a basin of cold water. Put into another basin, 
cover with fresh water, and leave it to soak for ten minutes. Strain off the water ; 
put the moss into a saucepan with the milk, sugar, and the thinly-peeled rind of 
the lemon. Let this come slowly to the boil, then stir it over the fire for fifteen 
minutes. Add the juice of the lemon. Rinse a jelly-mould out with cold water, 
strain the Irish moss into it, and leave in a cool place until quite firm, or it can be 
poured into a glass dish, and served in it when set. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required to make, 30 minutes. 

2,124. STRENGTHENING JELLY, 
i pint wine. | rind of 1 lemon. | I oz. gelatine. | | oz. gum-arabic. | 1 oz. sugar-candy. 

Crush the sugar-candy and gum-arabic very finely, i)ut them into a covered 
earthenware pot with the other ingredients. Let this remain for tAvelve hours, 
stirring it occasionally ; then put the jar in a warm place to melt the gelatme, etc. 
The jelly must be kept in a cool place in the jar in which it was made. A tea- 
spoonful can be given to the patient every two or three hours. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, about 13 hours. 

40-2 



626 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,125. BOILED CUSTARD AND STEWED APPLES. 



1 lb. apples. 
1 clove. 



sugar. I 1 whole egg. 1 yolk of 



^ pint milk. I vanilla. 



egg. 



Peel and core the apples, cut them in slices, put into a saucepan with the clove, 
sugar to taste, and a httle water. Place the pan on the fire, and stew gently until 
the apples are quite tender, then remove the clove. Put the milk into a saucepan 
with i oz. sugar, place on the fire, and bring to the boil. Break the eggs into a 
basin, beat them, and then stir the hot milk on to them. Strain it back into the 
saucepan, and stir over a very slow fire until the custard thickens. It must on no 
account be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Flavour with a few drops of 
vanilla. As soon as the custard thickens, pour it into a cold basin. This will stop 
the cooking o£ the eggs. If left in the saucejjan after it thickens, the heat of the 
pan will very often curdle the eggs. Serve the apples and custard in separate 
dishes, either hot or cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,126. SWEET SOUFFLE. 



\ oz. butter. I ^ oz. sugar. 



3 whites of eggs, 
custard sauce (No. 156). 



flavouring. 
I oz. flour. I \ gill milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 

Well butter a small timbale-mould, tie a band of buttered paper round the 
outside, so that it stands above the tin. IMelt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the 
flour off the fire, then moisten with the milk, and stir over the fire until the mixture 
is very thick and leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Take it off the 
fire, add the sugar, and let it cool a little ; then beat in the yolks of the eggs, one 
at a time. Flavour with vanilla, almond, or lemon. Whip the three whites of 
eggs very stiffly, and then stir them into the mixture m the saucepan, taking care 
not to stir it too much or the eggs will go down and the souffle will not be light. 
Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, cover with a piece of buttered paper, place 
in a steamer, and cook for thirty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour custard 
sauce round, and serve immediately, as these souffles begin to fall directly they are 
taken from the steamer. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,127. RICE PUDDING. 
1 tablespoonful rice. | 1 oz. butter. | 4 lumps sugar. | milk. 

Put the rice into a pie-dish holding about 1| pints (it ought to just cover the 
bottom of the dish), fill to the top with milk, add the sugar and the butter in small 
pieces. Place in a cool oven, and let it cook gently for about two hours. If the 
milk boils away too quickly, more can be added. The rice should be quite creamy 
by the time it is finished. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 2 hours. 



2,128. 


GROUND-RICE 


PUDDING. 


1 pint milk. 
1 lemon. 




1 oz. sugar, 
butter. 


1^ ozs. ground 
rice. 



Put the ground rice into a basin, mix with it enough of the milk to make it intd 
a paste. Put the rest of the milk into a pan with the sugar, and bring to the boil. 
Stir it on to the ground rice, return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire for about 
five minutes, then add the grated rind of a lemon. Butter a pie-dish, pour the 
rice in, and place in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Serve in the 
pie-dish. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



INVALID DISHES 627 

2.129. ORANGE CREAM. 
I I pint milk. | 2 ozs. sugar. | | oz. gelatine. | J lemon. 

Peel the rind of the oranges very thinly, put it into a saucepan with the sugar 
and h pint of milk. Bring to the boil, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Melt 
the gelatine in 1 gill of milk, taking care that it does not boil, or it will curdle. 
Stir it into the ^ pint of milk, strain, and let it get nearly cold ; then whisk it well, 
and add by degrees the juice of the oranges and the half lemon. Continue to whisk 
until it begins to set, then rinse a mould in cold water, and pour the mixture into 
it. Put in a cool place until quite firm ; turn out, and serve. Care should be taken 
in preparing this cream not to put it into the mould too soon, or it will separate 
and the gelatine sink to the bottom. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in the winter. 

2.130. TAPIOCA CREAM. 

1 tablespoonful tapioca. | 1 egg. | li pints milk. | sugar to taste. 

Put the milk into a saucepan, place on the fire, and, when boiling, sprinkle in 
the tapioca. Let this simmer gently for two hours until reduced to 1 pint. Let 
it cool a little. Have ready one yolk of egg, well beaten, and stir the milk and 
tapioca to it. Do not put^it on the fire again, or it will curdle. Sweeten to taste, 
and serve with stewed fruit. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,131. PEARL-BARLEY PUDDING. 



1 oz. jjearl-barley. 
1 egg. 



1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. sugar. 

1 pint milk. flavouring. 

Wash the barley in several waters ; put the milk into a saucepan, and, when 
boiling, stir in the barley, Let it simmer very gently until the barley is tender. 
When cooked, add one egg, well beaten, the sugar, and some more milk. Flavour 
with vanilla or lemon, pour it into a buttered pie-dish with the butter in small 
pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, H hours. 

2,132. CANARY PUDDINGS. 
1 egg. I IJ ozs. castor sugar. | 1| ozs. flour. | 1^ ozs. butter. | Icmon-rind. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, cream them together with a wooden 
spoon until quite soft, add the egg, stir it into the butter and sugar until well mixed, 
beat for a few minutes. Sieve the flour with a pinch of baking-powder, add the 
grated lemon-rind, stir lightly into the mixture. Have ready buttered some small 
dariole-moulds, put in each two teaspoonfuls of the above preparation, place them 
in a steamer, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and steam quickly for 
twenty minutes. When done, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve plain or with 
sweet or custard sauce. 

Average cost, 4d. or 5d. Time required, 35 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 
darioles, 

2,133. STEWED FIGS. 

1 lb. dried figs. | 2 cloves. | 1 lemon. 

Put the figs in a basin, cover with water, and let them soak for some hours ; 

ihen put them into a stewpan with the water that they were soaked in, add the 

cloves and the rind of the lemon, stew gently until soft, add the juice of the lemon, 

and let cool. Serve with boiled rice or cream. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, after soaking, 30 minutes. 



628 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,134. FLORADOR BLANCMANGE. 

1 pint milk. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 2 tablespoonfuls florador. | 1 lemon. | stewed fruit. 

Peel the lemon very thinly, put it in a stewpan with the milk and sugar, bring 
to the boil, and then sprinkle in the florador, stirring all the time. Let it boil until 
it is thick and the florador cooked. Turn the mixture into a mould, and, when 
cold, turn out, and serve with stewed fruit. The lemon-rind should be removed 
before the florador is added to the milk. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 



2,135. 

1 oz. cornflour. I 



CORNFLOUR BLANCMANGE. 



jDint milk. 



a little sugar. 



1 lemon. 



Put the cornflour into a basin, mix enough of the milk with it to make a smooth 
paste. Put the rest of the milk into a saucepan with a little sugar and the thinly- 
peeled rind of the lemon. Let it come slowly to the boil, then strain it mto the 
cornflour, mix it in, return to the saucepan, and let it cook over the fire for about 
ten minutes, stirring it all the time. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in 
the blancmange, and put aside to set. When firm, turn out, and serve cold. 

Averr.ge cost, 2|d. Time required, .20 minutes. 




Fig. 155. — Cornflour Blancmange. 



2,136. INVALID FRUIT TART. 

6 sponge fingers. | ^ lb. apples. | sugar. | IJ gills milk. | 1 ' 
Split the sponge biscuits in halves down the centre. Peel and core the apples, 
cut them in convenient pieces, place them in a saucepan with sugar to taste and 
sufficient water to cook them. Put the pan on the fire, and simmer until the fruit 
is soft, then rub the apples through a fine sieve. Arrange a laj^er of sponge fingers 
at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish, over these place a layer of the stewed fruit, 
then some more biscuits. Continue in this way until the fruit is used up. Boil 
the milk in a stewpan, beat the egg in a basin, allow the milk to go off the boil, 
then stir it on to the egg ; mix well. A little sugar may be added if liked. Place 
the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, 
dredge over some castor sugar, and serve hot. Any suitable fruit that is in season 
can be used instead of apples. Pastry is not generally allowed for invalids, and 
this is a pudding that takes its place. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required. 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 



INVALID DISHES 



629 



2,137. COMPOTE OF ORANGES. 

3 oranges. | 1 gill water. | sugar. | ^ lemon. 

Peel the oranges, take away every particle of the white pith, cut the fruit in 
slices, not dividing them in the natural divisions, remove the pips from every slice. 
Put the water into a stewpan, sweeten to taste, add the strained juice of half a 
lemon, boil for a few minutes. Arrange the slices of orange in a glass dish, and 
as soon as the syrup has cooled sufHciently pour it over the fruit. Place the dish 
in a cool place, and serve when required. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, November to June. 

2,138. JUNKET. 

^ pint milk. | ^ oz. sugar. | nutmeg. | a little sherry. | 1 small teaspoonful rennet. 
Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan, place on the fire, and allow it to get 
just tepid (98° F.). Add the sherry and rennet. Pour it into custard-glasses, and 
put aside to set. When firm, grate a httle nutmeg over the top of each. Junket 
can either be served plain or with whipped cream. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, a few minutes to make. 




Fig. 156. — Junket. 



INVALID DRINKS 

2,139. LEMONADE. 

1 lemon. | IJ ozs. sugar. | 1 pint water. 

Peel the lemon very thinly, taking great care not to take off any of the wliite 
pith, as this makes the lemonade bitter and unpalatable to an invalid. Put the 
peel into a jug, add the sugar and 1 pint of boiling water. Stir it until the sugar 
is melted, then cover closely with a cloth in order to keep the steam in. When 
cold, strain, and use as required. 

Average cost, l^d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

2,140. A STRENGTHENING AND COOL DRINK. 
1 white of egg. | 1 lemon. | 1 gill water. | sugar to taste. 
Beat the white of egg very stiffly, stir in the water, the strained juice of one 
lemon, and sugar to taste. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, a few minutes. 



630 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,141. IRISH MOSS. 
J oz. Irish moss or carrageen. | \\ pints water. | 1 lemon. | 1 oz. sugar. 
Well wash the moss in water, then allow it to soak for fifteen minutes. Put 
the moss into a saucepan with IJ pints of water, 1 oz. sugar, and the rind of a 
lemon very thinly peeled. Bring this to the boil, and then stir over the fire for 
fifteen minutes. Strain it, and use when cold. This seaweed is used greatly for 
chest complaints. 

Average cost of Irish moss, 9d. per lb. Time required, about 45 minutes. 

2,142. ICELAND-MOSS TEA. 
\ oz. Iceland moss. I 1 quart water. | 1 lemon. | sugar to taste. 
Wash the moss thoroughly, put it into a saucepan of water and bring to the 
boil. Strain it off, and throw away the water, as it is bitter. Return the moss to 
the saucepan, add 1 J pints of water, the rind of one lemon, peeled thinly, and sugar 
to taste. Put it on the fire, and let it boil gently for fifteen minutes. Strain it, 
and use when cold. This moss is used greatly for chest complaints. 
Average cost, 9d. per lb. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,143. LINSEED TEA (1). 
2 tablespoonfuls linseed. | 1 pint water. | | lemon. | sugar. 

Boil the linseed in the water for ten minutes, strain into a jug, add the juice of 
half a lemon, and sweeten to taste. Serve when cold. 
Average cost, l|d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

2,144. LINSEED TEA (2). 

3 tablespoonfuls linseed. | 1 pint water. | 1 lemon. | sugar. | 1 wineglass port or sherry. 

Boil the linseed in the water for ten minutes. Strain it into a jug, add the 
juice of the lemon, sugar to taste, and a wineglassful of wine. Mx thoroughly, and 
serve when cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

2,145. BLACK-CURRANT TEA. 

2 tablespoonfuls black-currant jam. | 1 pint water. 

Put the jam into a saucepan, add the water, and stir over the fire until boiling. 
Let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain, and serve either hot or cold. 
Average cost, 2d. Time required, 10 minutes. 

2,148. MILK TEA. 
1 teaspoonful tea. | \ pint milk. | sugar to taste. ^ 

Pour some boiling water into a teapot to heat the pot, empty this away, put 
in the tea, heat the milk, and, when it boils, pour on to the tea. Place the lid on 
the pot, and let it stand for two or three minutes. Serve the tea at once. When 
milk diet is ordered, this is a nourisliing and palatable way of administermg it. 

2,147. TOAST WATER. 
1 slice stale bread. | 1 pint water. 

Toast the slice of bread rather slowly until it is a nice brown colour all over, 
taking great care that it does not burn. Put it into a jug, and pour over it 1 pint of 
boiling water. Cover the jug with a cloth, and leave until perfectly cold. Strain 
it, and it is then ready for use. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, a few minutes. 



INVALID DISHES 631 

2,148. BARLEY WATER. '*^ ' j 

2 ozs. pearl -barley. | 3 lumps sugar. | rind of 1 lemon. | 1^ pints boiling water. 

Wash the barley in cold water, then put it into a saucepan, cover with cold 
water, and bring to the boil. Strain it, and return the barley to the saucepan ; 
add the sugar. Peel the lemon very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the 
white pith ; add the lemon-peel to the barley and 1 1 pints of boiling water. Let 
this boil gently for fifteen to twenty minutes, then strain into a jug, and use when 
cold. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, about 30 minutes. . 

2.149. RICE WATER. 

2 ozs. rice. | 1 quart water. | sugar to taste. 

Wash the rice in cold water, then put it into a ste^vpan with the water. Let 
this boil gently for about half an hour. Strain into a jug, and sweeten to taste. 
Use when quite cold. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2.150. APPLE WATER. 

IJ lbs. apples. | 1 oz. sugar. | 1 quart water. | ^ lemon. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a jug 
with 1 oz. sugar. Peel the rind of half a lemon very thinly, put it into a saucepan, 
and bring slowly to the boil. Pour it on to the apples in the jug, cover closely with 
a cloth, and leave until cold. Strain it, and it is ready for use. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

2.151. BARLEY MILK. 

J lb. patent barley. | 1^ pints milk. | | oz. sugar. 
Put the milk and barley into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and then let it cook 
gently for about two hours. Then add the sugar, serve hot. 
Time required, about 2 hours Average cost, 4d. 

2.152. EGG AND MILK. 

1 egg. I 1 glass sherry. | | pint milk. | sugar to taste. 
Beat the egg well, add the sherry and the milk. Stir all well together, sweeten 
to taste, pour the mixture into a tumbler, and serve. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, a few minutes. 

2,153. EGG AND SODA WATER. 
1 yolk of egg. | 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. | J gill milk. | soda water. 
Beat the yolk of the egg with the sugar until frothy, add the milk, mix well. 
Put this into a tumbler, fill up with soda water, and serve. 
Average cost, 3^d. Time required, a few minutes. 

2,154. NOURISHING CHICKEN BROTH, WITH EGG. 

^ pint chicken -broth. 1 1 tablespoonful brandy, j salt. 
2 yolks of eggs. | toast. I pepper. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, boil the chicken broth, let it go off the 
boil, and cool for a minute ; then pour it on to the eggs, stirring meanwhile. Put 
the broth back into the stewpan, stir until just on boihng-point, but do not let it , 
actually boil. Add the brandy, season to taste, pour into a cup, and serve hot 
with a slice of toast cut into fingers. 

Average cost, 4d., without the broth. Time required, 15 minutes. 



632 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,155. OATMEAL TEA. 

2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal. | 1 lemon. \ 1 quart boiling water. | sugar to taste. 

Put the oatmeal in a jug, peel the lemon very thinly, add it and $ugar to taste 
to the oatmeal, pour the boilmg water over it. Let it stand till cold, then pour it 
off, and it should be clear. 

Average cost, l|d. Time required, 5 minutes. 

2,156. ARROWROOT DRINK WITH BLACK-CURRANT JAM. 
2 tablesi^oonfuls black-currant jam. ( 1 quart water. | 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. 
Put the jam into a stewpan, add the water to it, put on the lid, and bring to 
the boil. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, strain, and return the liquor to 
the stewpan. Mix the arrowroot in a basin with enough cold water to make into 
a thin paste. As soon as the liquor in the stewpan boils, pour it on the arrowroot, 
stirring well ; return to the pan, boil up, strain it into a jug, and let it get cold, and 
serve. This is good for colds, and is liked and readily taken by children. 
Time required, 45 minutes. 

2.157. BARLEY NEGUS. 

1 tablespoonful pearl- | 1 pint water. 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice, 

barley. 1 1 gill sherry. sugar to taste. 

Wash the barley, boil it in the water for fifteen minutes, then add the wine, 
lemon-juice, and sugar to taste. Strain, and use hot. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

2.158. MULLED WINE. 

1 gill sweet wine. | 2 eggs. | \ gill water. | 6 cloves. | 2-inch stick of cinnamon. | 2 ozs. sugar. 
Break the cinnamon into small pieces, put it into a basin with the cloves, pour 
\ gill of boiling water over them, and let it stand for a short time. Break the eggs 
into a basin, add the sugar, and beat very well. Strain the spice-water into it, 
and mix thoroughly. Put the wine into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and then 
pour it into the egg mixture. Pour it from one jug to another once or twice in 
order to make it frothy. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

2,159. WHITE-WINE WHEY, 
i pint milk. | \ oz. sugar. | 1 tablespoonful white wine. 
Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Add the white 
wine, and let it stand. When it has curdled, strain it, and use as required. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, a few minutes. 

2,160. LEMON WHEY. 
\ pint milk. | 1 oz. sugar. | 1 lemon. 
Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Add 
the strained juice of one lemon, cook over the fire until it curdles, then strain, and 
use as required. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, a few minutes. 

2,161. PORT-WINE NEGUS. 

1 gill port- wine. | ^ pint water. | sugar to taste. | iemon-juice. | vanilla essence. | nutmeg. 
Put 1 gill of port-wme into a jug. Boil i pint water with about 1 oz. sugar* 
Pour this on to the wine, flavour with a little lemon-juice, grated nutmeg, a few 
pieces of lemon-rind, and a few drops of vanilla essence. Serve hot. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, a few minutes. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 

ELEMENTARY PREPARATIONS 

2,162. TO SKIN ALMONDS OR PISTACHIO NUTS. 

Put the almonds or pistachios into a basin, pour over enough boihng water to cover 
them, let them stay in the water for about five minutes, then drain, press each with 
the thumb and finger to remove the skin, wash in cold water, drain, and dry in a 
cloth. 

2,163. PRALINED ALMONDS. 

Skin the almonds, dry them, then chop or shred them. Place on a baking-tin 
in the oven, sprinkle with icing-sugar several times. This turns to caramel during 
the baking, and covers the almonds with a brown coating of sugar. 

2,164. BURNT ALMONDS. 

Chop or shred the almonds, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, 
and bake them a golden brown. They should be stirred constantly, so that they 
may be the same colour all over. 

2,165. TO BEAT WHITES OF EGGS. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs carefully, so that the yolks are not 
broken. The whites will not beat up well if any of the yolks are mixed with them. 
Put the whites into a basin or egg-bowl, begin to whisk the whites gently with a 
wire whisk. As soon as the eggs begin to stiffen, beat more quickly until the whites 
are so stiff that the basin may be turned upside down without the eggs falhng out. 
A pinch of salt added to the whites often facihtates the whisking process. 

2,166. TO WHIP CREAM. 

Pour the cream into a basin, whip gently with two forks until the marks of the 
*orks can be just seen in it. When whipped enough, put the cream on a hair sieve 
in a cool place until required for use. 

2,167. TO CLEAN CURRANTS AND SULTANAS. 

Place the fruit on a wire sieve, sprinkle them with flour, and rub them gently 
with the hand. This will not only clean the fruit, but remove most of the stems. 
Then take up a few at a time into the hand, and examine them to see if all the 
stalks have been removed. Continue in tliis Avay until all have been examined. 

2,168. VANILLA SUGAR. 

Cut up 1 oz. of vanilla-pod into small pieces, put it into a mortar with 2 lbs. 
of castor sugar, and pound well together. Pass through a fine sieve, and keep in 
a tin or jar tightly covered. 

6.33 



634 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,169. TO MAKE BAKING-POWDER. 

4 ozs. ground-rice or cornflour. | 2 ozs. carbonate soda. | 1^ ozs. tartaric acid. 
Mix these ingredients together, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Keep in a 
tin tightly covered. Use 1 teaspoonful to a pound of flour. 

2,170. CRfiME PATISSI£RE (CONFECTIONER'S CUSTARD). 

J pint milk. 2 yolks of eggs. I 1 oz. sugar. 

J oz. cornflour. 1 white of egg. • vanilla. 

]\Iix the cornflour with a little of the milk, put the remainder in a small stewpan 
to boil, add the sugar. Beat the eggs in a basin, then mix them with the corn- 
flour. Let the milk go off the boil, then pour it on to the eggs and cornflour. Keturn 
to the saucepan, and cook until thick. Strain into a basin, then add the vanilla 
essence. Let cool, and use as desired. It can be used for fiUing eclairs in place of 
cream, and for many other purposes. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 16 minutes. 

2,171. CREME FRANGIPANE. 



J lb. castor sugar. 
1 oz. flour. 
\ pint milk. 



3 yolks of eggs. 
pinch of salt. 
2 ozs. butter. 



1 white of egg. 

1 oz. crushed macaroons. 

flavouring essence. 



Put the sugar, flour, and salt into a stewpan, stir in the eggs, mix well, then 
add the boihng milk, stirring quickly. Place the pan on a slow fire, and stir all the 
time the cream is cooking. Let it boil for about six or eight minutes. Take the 
pan off the fire, and mix in by degrees the 2 ozs. of butter, the crushed macaroons, 
and the flavouring essence. Turn it into a basin. Use as directed. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



BATTERS 



2,172. FRYING BATTER. 

4 ozs. flour. 1 gill tepid 1 tablespoonful salad oil or 2 whites of eggs, 

salt. water. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 

Sieve the flour with a pinch of salt into a basin, add the yolk of the egg, mix in 
with a wooden spoon, add the oil with the tepid water (if oil is not Hked, 1 oz. of 
melted butter can be used instead). Stir into the flour by degrees until a smooth 
paste is obtained, then beat the mixture for ten minutes. Let the batter stand for 
half an hour or longer. When ready to use, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and mix in lightly. Use as directed. 

2,173. PANCAKE BATTER. 
4 ozs. flour. I \ pint milk. | salt. | 2 eggs. 

Sieve the flour with a pinch of salt into a basin, break the eggs into the flour, 
work them together, add the milk by degrees. When half the milk has been added, 
beat the batter for ten minutes, then stir in the remainder of the milk. Let the 
mixture stand, if possible, for one hour before using. This makes the batter lighter, 
as the air dissolves into it. Use as directed. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, H hours. Sufficient for 8 thin pancakes. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 635 

ICING FOR gATEAUX, SMALL CAKES, ETC. 

2,174. GLACE AU FONDANT (FONDANT ICING). 

2 lbs. loaf sugar. | | pint water. | a pinch of cream of tartar, or a few drops of lemon-juice. 

Put the sugar into a saucepan, add the water and acid, put on a slow fire and 
let the sugar dissolve ; then boil up quickly, skim, and put on the Hd of the saucepan 
for a minute or two. Put in the thermometer, and boil to 230° F. Take it off the 
fire, sprinkle a marble slab with warm water, turn the sugar out on to it, and work 
with a spatula, turning it about in all directions. Gather the sugar together with 
a knife or scraper, so that no part is left untouched by the spatula. As soon as the 
sugar becomes white and creamy, work it into a ball, and knead it with the hand 
until perfectly smooth. To use the fondant, put as much of it as is needed into a 
saucepan, place over a slow fire, and stir so as to soften it. Add a little water to 
moisten it, if found necessary ; flavour with any desired essence. It can also be 
tinted to any desired shade. 

Average cost, 7d. or 8d. Time required, uncertain. 

2,175. GLACE AU FONDANT AU CHOCOLAT (CHOCOLATE FONDANT ICING). 

^ lb. fondant sugar (No. 2,174). | 2 ozs. unsweetened chocolate. 
Prepare the fondant sugar as in last recipe, melt the chocolate in a httle water 
and add to the fondant after it has been melted in the stewpan. Stir over the fire 
until mixed, add a httle water, if necessary, to make it the right consistency. 

Average cost, 3d. or 4d. Time required, 10 minutes after fondant is pre- 
pared. 

2,176. GLACE A L'EAU (WATER ICING). 
J lb. icing sugar. | water. | flavouring. 
Pass the icing sugar through a fine sieve into a basin, mix into it sufficient cold 
water to make it into a thin paste, beat until smooth, flavour it as desired, and pour 
it over the cake or cakes. Stand aside to dry. 

2,177. CHOCOLATE ICING. 
J lb. icing sugar. | 3 ozs. Cadbury's chocolate. | J gill water. 

Melt the chocolate in the water over the fire, stir with a wooden spoon until 
quite dissolved. Pass the sugar through a fine sieve, put it into the saucepan with 
the chocolate, stir together. Do not let it boil. Use as required while warm. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,178. GLACE ROYALE (ROYAL ICING). 

1 lb. icing sugar. | 2 whites of eggs. | juice of 1 lemon. 

Pass the icing-sugar through a hair sieve into a basin, add the whites of 
the eggs and the juice of the lemon, work these together with a wooden spoon until 
of a creamy consistency. Beat for fifteen to twenty minutes until the mixture is 
very smooth and hght. It should be of such a consistency that it will not fall 
from the spoon when hfted. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

. 2,179. TRANSPARENT WATER ICING. 

1 lb. loaf sugar. | ^ pint water. 

Put the sugar into a saucepan, add the water, place on a slow fire until the 
sugar is dissolved, then boil for about twenty minutes until it becomes a thick 
syrup. Pour it into a basin, and stir with a wooden spoon or spatula until nearly 
cold. Use for coating cakes before it is quite cold. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



636 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,180. GLACE A L'AMANDE (ALMOND ICING). 

1 lb. ground almonds. | IJ lbs. castor sugar. | whites of eggs. | flavouring. 

Mix the almonds and sugar together — the latter should be very fine — make into 
a fairly stiff paste with whites of eggs, flavour to taste with orange-flower water, 
vanilla, or lemon. A few bitter almonds pounded and mixed with the sweet almonds 
are an improvement, or a few drops of ratafia or almond essence can be used instead. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. 

2,181. BEURRE AU CAFE (BUTTER ICING). 

\ lb. fresh butter. | J lb. icing sugar. | essence of coffee. 

Cream the butter and sugar together in a basin until mixed and soft, then add 
some coffee essence by degrees until the right flavour is attained. Use for putting 
in the centre of cakes and for decorating. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,182. GLACE A CHAUD (WARM ICING). 
J lb. icing sugar. \ water. | flavouring. • 
Pass the icing-sugar through a fine sieve into a saucepan, mix it with sufficient 
cold water to make it into a paste of a creamy consistency, add any kind of flavouring 
desired, and beat until smooth. Put the saucepan on the fire, and stir until luke- 
warm ; then use quickly. 

Average cost, 4d. to 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

PASTRIES 

2,183. SHORT PASTE. 
1 lb. flour. I ^ lb. butter. | salt. | water to mix. 
Pass the flour with a pinch of salt through a fine wire sieve into a basin ; break 
the butter into small pieces in the flour, then rub it in -with the fingers until the 
mixture has the appearance of breadcrumbs. Add a httle water, mix to a stiff 
paste, turn on to a floured board, knead it for a few seconds in order to get it smooth, 
roll it out lightly and quickly, and use for the purpose intended. Instead of using 
all butter, half butter and half lard can be used. 

Average cost, 9d. if all butter is used, 7d. if half butter and half lard. Time 
required, 10 minutes. 

2,184. ROUGH PUFF PASTRY. 
8 ozs. flour. I 6 ozs. butter. | lemon-juice. | salt. | water. 
Sieve the flour with a pinch of salt on to a table, cut the butter into three pieces, 
put them into the flour ; make a well in the centre, squeeze in a few drops of lemon- 
juice, add a Uttle water, and mix into a paste without breaking up the butter. 
Roll into a strip, fold in three, press the edges hghtly with the rolling-pin, give it 
one turn to the left, roll again into a strip, always roUing the same way ; fold, press, 
and turn again. Continue in this way until the pastry has been rolled four times. 
The pastry is now ready for use, and can be used for covering tarts, making tartlets, 
and for many other purposes. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes in the winter, longer in the 
summer. 

2,185. PUFF PASTE. 
\ lb. flour. I \ lb. fresh butter. | pinch of salt. I lemon -juioe. | water. 
Sieve the flour and a pinch of salt on to a marble slab or paste-board, make a 
well in the centre of the flour, put in a squeeze of lemon-juice, and sufficient water 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 637 

to make a paste. The consistency of the paste should be the same as the butter. 
Knead the paste for ten minutes, then roll it out into a strip about J inch thick. 
Put the butter into a cloth, and squeeze out all the water. Place the butter in the 
centre of the strip of paste, fold one end over the butter, fold the other half over it, 
press the edges together. Put this aside into a cool place foi fifteen minutes, then 
place the paste on the slab, and roll it out gently, always rolling in one direction. 
Fold in three, turn it so as to have the rough edges towards you, roll again in the 
same way, fold in three, put aside for ten minutes. Continue in this way until the 
paste has had six turns. The paste is now ready, and can be used for vol-au-vent, 
patties, or tartlets. 

Average cost, 9d. or lOd. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,186. CHOUX PASTE. 

2 ozs. flour. salt. i 1 whole egg. 

1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. | 1 yolk of egg. 

Put the water, butter, and a pinch of salt into a small stewpan, place it on the 
fire, and as soon as it comes to boihng-point stir in the flour. Work over the fire, 
stirring it quickly with a wooden spoon until the mixture leaves the sides of the 
pan. Take the stewpan off the fire, and let cool, then work in the eggs, one at a 
time ; beat well. Use as directed. 

2,187. CASSOLETTE PASTE. 

4 ozs. flour. I I oz. butter, | 1 egg. | squeeze of lemon -juice. | pinch of salt. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, rub in the butter, beat the egg, 
add a little water to it, pour into the flour, and mix into a stiff paste. Use for 
lining timbale or cassolette tins. 



2,188. pAtE A BRIOCHE (BRIOCHE PASTE). 


1 lb. flour. 8 eggs. 
i lb. butter. 1 gill milk. 


f oz. yeast. 
2 ozs. sugar. 


pinch of salt. 

\ gill warm water. 



Mix the yeast and warm water together, stir into it J lb. of flour, work together 
until it forms a soft paste, cover, and put it in a warm place to rise until it is double 
the size. Take the remainder of the flour, sieve it into a basin, add the salt and 
sugar. Melt the butter, add the milk to it. Stir this into the flour, mix up into a 
dough, adding the eggs, two at a time. Knead well until the dough is quite smooth, 
then mix in the yeast dough. Knead again for ten to fifteen minutes. Cover it 
over, and set it in a cool place for twelve hours. During this time the paste should, 
after six hours, be turned on to a floured board and beaten with the hand, in order 
to keep it from rising too much. It should be again beaten before it is used. Make 
it up into rolls or shapes, or bake in small moulds. Bake in a hot oven. 

\ 
2,189. pAtE A PAT£S (PASTE FOR RAISED PIES). . 
1 lb. flour. I J lb. butter or lard. | 1 gill water. | pinch of salt. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, mix in a pinch of salt. Melt the butter or lard in 
the water, make a well in the centre of the flour, and as soon as the mixture boils 
pour it into the flour ; work with a spoon until the flour is all mixed in, knead with 
the hand until smooth. This paste must be used while warm. Use for raised pies 
of pork or game, etc. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



638 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



HOT PUDDINGS 

2,190. BAKED LEMON PUDDING. 
2 ozs. stale cake or bread. 



3 ozs. castor sugar. 
3 yolks of eggs. 



4 whites of eggs. 
2 lemons. 
1 gill milk. 



\ lb. short pastry or rough puff. 

glace cherries. 

angeUca. 

Break up the cake or bread, and pass it through a wire sieve. IVIix it in a 
basin with the sugar and the grated rind of the lemon, squeeze the juice of the 
lemons, and add to the dry ingredients. Beat the yolks, add the milk to them, 
and stir into the mixture. Whip two whites of eggs very stiffly, and stir in lightly. 
Roll out the pastry, line a pie-dish with it, decorate round the edge with pieces of 
pastry cut out with a star cutter. Turn the mixture into the prepared dish, and 
bake in a moderate oven for about twenty to twenty-five minutes. Whip the 
remaining two wliites of eggs very stiffly, and, when the pudding is done, cover the 
top with the beaten whites. Dredge with sugar, place in the oven for a few minutes 
decorate with a few cherries placed here and there, and some angehca cut out to 
represent leaves. Serve either hot or cold. 

Average cost, lOd. or Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fia. 157. — Baked Lemon Puddino 



BAKED ALMOND PUDDING. 



2 ozs. ground-rice. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2,191, 

2 ozs. ground sweet almonds. J pint of milk. I 2 ozs. sugar, 

short or rough-puff pastry. 2 yolks of eggs. | 1 white of egg. 

Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and line the sides of a pie-dish with it. Deco- 
rate the edge with stars of pastry, cut out with a fancy cutter. Put the milk into 
a saucepan with the sugar, and put on the fire to boil. Mix the ground rice with a 
little of the milk, and stir into the boiling milk and sugar. Cook this over the fire 
for five minutes, stirring all the time ; then mix in the butter, almonds, and beaten 
eggs. Stir all together thoroughly, and then pour into the prepared pie-dish. 
Place in a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. Take it up, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year.. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS, 639 

2,192. APRICOT PUDDING. 

1 tin apricots or 12 large j ^ lb. pastry. 1 pint milk. r 4 eggs. 

apricots. I 3 gills breadcrumbs. 3 ozs. sugar. | 1 glass sherry, 

. Divide the apricots in halves, and stew them until soft, then break them up 

with a spoon into small pieces. If tinned or bottled apricots are used they will not 

require stewing. Boil the milk, put the breadcrumbs into a basin, add the sugar 

to the milk, beat the four yolks and two whites of the eggs, add the sherry to them, 

and as soon as the milk is half cold pour it on to the eggs, mix well, and then add 

to the breadcrumbs. Add the fruit, stir all well together. Roll out the pastry, 

Hne a piedish with it, fill with the mixture, and bake for thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Whisk the remaining two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, put them on the top of the 

pudding when cooked, dust with castor sugar, and put again into the oven for a 

few minutes to set and brown the white of egg. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 

Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,193. APPLE AMBER. 

1^ lbs. apples. 3 ozs. sugar. I 3 eggs. I glace cherries. 

1 lemon. 2 ozs. butter. | angelica. | puflf-paste. 

Peel and core the apples, slice and put them into a stewpan with the sugar, the 
thinly-peeled rind of the lemon, and a httle water. Put the pan on the fire, and stew 
gently until the apples are tender. Pass the apples through a fine sieve, put this 
puree into a saucepan, add the butter and the juice of the lemon. Add the yolk" 
of the eggs, and cook over the fire without boihng. Butter a pie-dish, line it with 
pieces of puff-pastry, decorate the edges with stars of paste cut out with a fancy 
cutter. Pour the apple mixture into the decorated pie-dish and cook in the oven 
until the pastry is hghtly coloured and the mixture is set. Whisk the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and, when the pudding is ready (it will take about twenty 
minutes to cook), cover the top with them, dust over with castor sugar, and return 
to the oven to set the eggs and to colour them lightly. Just before sending to table 
decorate the top of the pudding with leaves of angehca and some glace cherries. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,194. CHESTNUT AMBER. 



1 oz. castor sugar. 
1 oz. butter. 



12 chestnuts. 
3 gills milk. 



2 eggs. vanilla, j 1 oz. cake- 

1 lemon. syrup. ( crumbs. 



Sht the chestnuts, put them into a cool oven until the shell and under-skin can 
be removed, then cook them in a vanilla-flavoured syrup. When done sufficiently, 
rub them through a fine sieve, peel the lemon very thinly, put it into a ste^\-pan 
with the milk, and bring to the boil. Put the cake-crumbs into a basin, strain 
over the boihng milk. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the yolks of the 
eggs, stir into this the chestnut puree and the soaked crumbs and milk, add the 
juice of the lemon ; mix all well together. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into 
it, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, cover the pudding with it, dust with castor sugar, and return the pudding 
to the oven to set and brown the eggs. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to February. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,195. COCOANUT PUDDING. 

6 ozs. grated cocoa- , 3 ozs. cake-crumbs. J pint milk. ] vanilla essence, 

nut. I 2 ozs. castor sugar. 2 ozs. butter. I 4 eggs. 

Put the milk and cocoanut into a saucepan and cook. Cream the butter and 
iugar together, add the yolks of the eggs one at a time, add the cocoanut and milk 
PT. IX. 'il 



640 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

to this, stir in the cakecrumbs, and flavour with vanilla. Whip two whites of eggs 
very stiffly, and stir in hghtly to the mixture. Pour into a well-buttered pie-dish, 
and bake for half an hour. Whip the remaining two whites of eggs very stiffly, 
spread this on the top of the pudding, dust over with castor sugar, and put back 
in the oven to brown and set the eggs. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffl- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,196. WEST-RIDING PUDDING. 



2 eggs. 

1 lemon-rind. 



jam. 



puff-paste. powder. 



\ teaspoonful baking- 



the weight of the eggs in butter, 
sugar, and flour. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, beat in the eggs one at a time, sieve the 
flour and baking-powder together, grate the lemon-rind, and add these ingredients 
to the butter and eggs ; stir in hghtly. Line a pie-dish with strips of puff-paste, 
decorate the edge with stars of paste cut out with a star cutter, put in half the 
mixture, over that place a thick layer of jam, then the remainder of the mixture. 
Put the pudding in the oven, and bake for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffl- 
cient for 5 persons. 

2,197. HALF-HOUR PUDDING. 
1 pint milk. | 6 ozs. flour. | 2 eggs. | 2 ozs. butter. | pastry. | jam. 

Line a pie-dish with either short or rough puff-pastry, put a layer of jam at the 
bottom of the dish. Put the flour into a basin, add the milk to it by degrees until 
quite smooth, pour into a stewpan, place on the fire, and boil for a few minutes ; 
then add the butter and the well-beaten eggs, pour this on to the jam. Put the 
pudding in the oven, and bake. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



\ lb. suet. 
I lb. flour. 



2,198. BAKED SUET PUDDING. 

\ lb. raisins. 



a little milk. 



1 teaspoonful Bird's egg- 
\ lb. sugar. powder. pinch of salt. 

Chop the suet finely, and stone the raisins. Mix these with the flour in a basin, 
add the sugar, salt, and egg-powder, then stir in enough milk to mix to a rather 
stiff paste. Put the mixture into a well-greased pie-dish, and bake in a moderate 
oven for one hour. When done, take it up, turn it out on to a hot dish, and sprinkle 
the top with castor sugar. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 

for 6 or 8 persons. 

2,199. BACHELOR'S PUDDING. 

milk. 

vanilla sauce (No. 165). 

Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin, add the breadcrumbs and flour. Clean 
the currants and sultanas, chop the peel and apples, add all these to the dry in- 
gredients. Beat up the eggs, and stir into the mixture. If too dry, mix in a little 
milk. Turn into a greased pudding-basin, and steam for three hours. Turn out, 
and serve with vanilla sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 3J hours. In season always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

2,200. VICTORIA PUDDING. 
\ lb. butter. 4 eggs. 6 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. glac6 cherries. 



\ lb. suet. I 1 lb. flour. 2 eggs. 

\ lb. breadcrumbs. I 2 apples. 1 oz. peel. 



2 ozs. sultanas. 
2 ozs. currants. 



\ lb. sugar. 



J lb. breadcrumbs. 



custard sauce (No. 156). 



2 ozs. currants. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft, then beat in the eggs one at a 
time. When well beaten, stir in the flour and breadcnimbs, also the cherries cut 







<u 





03 




>, 




O 


1 


<X. 


te,, 


,5 


« 




1 


/« 


f 


w 




(U 




£ 




£ 




o 




Q- 



J lb. breadcrumbs. 
3 apples. 
3 eggs. 



3 ozs. sugar. 
3 ozs. currants. 
i lemon. 



salt. 

vanilla sauce (No. 165) or 
sabayon sauce (No. 173). 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 641 

in quarters and the currants cleaned. Well butter a pudding-basin, turn this 
mixture into it, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam gently for two 
hours. Turn out, and serve with hot custard sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 2| hours. In season always. SufiQcient 
for 6 or 6 persons. 

2,201. PARADISE PUDDING. 

^ wineglassful of 

brandy, 
nutmeg. 

Peel, core, and chop the apples very finely. Put them into a basin, and add 
the breadcrumbs, sugar, currants, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the 
eggs in a basin until frothy, and stir into the pudding. Lastly, add the brandy, 
nutmeg, and salt. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered mould, cover with 
buttered paper, and steam for an hour and a half. Turn out on a hot dish, and 
serve with either vanilla sauce or sabayon sauce. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. In season always. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,202. QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

1 oz. peel, 
f pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

Cut the bread into small squares, clean the currants and sultanas, and chop 
the peel. Put these ingredients into a well-buttered pudding-mould. Boil the 
milk and sugar together, beat the eggs in a basin, and pour the hot milk over them. 
Mix together, and then add it to the dry ingredients in the pudding-mould. Cover 
with a piece of buttered paper, and steam very gently for about forty-five minutes. 
Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with jam sauce made from red jam. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. In season always. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

2,203. DENMARK PUDDING. 
^ lb. butter. | ^ lb. sugar. | lemon-rind. | 4 eggs. | 1 lb. flour. | Jam. 

Place the butter and sugar in a basin, cream together with a wooden spoon 
until quite soft. Break in one egg, beat well, then add another egg, and beat 
again. Do this until the eggs are all used. Sieve the flour with one teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Stir this into the mixture, also the grated rind of half a lemon. 
Well grease a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and in the centre place a 
tablespoonful of jam. Cover with more of the mixture, and steam gently for four 
hours. Turn out, and serve with any sweet sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 4^ hours. In season always. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 

2,204. CORNISH PUDDING. 



2 ozs. stale bread. 
2 ozs. currants. 
2 ozs. sultanas. 



2 yoLks of eggs. 

1 oz. sugar. 

jam sauce (No. 163). 



lemon-essence. 

milk. 

custard sauce (No. 156). 



J lb. suet. ^ lb. breadcrumbs. 

1 lb. flour. I lb. currants. 

2 eggs. I lb. sugar. 

Chop the suet very finely, put it into a basin, mix in the flour, breadcrumbs, 
and sugar ; also the currants, which must be cleaned and the stalks removed. Mix 
-all these dry ingredients together, beat the eggs in a basin, and stir into the pudding ; 
also a few drops of lemon-essence. Add a little milk if the pudding is not moist 
enough. Well grease a pudding-mould, turn the mixture into it, cover with a 
piece of buttered paper, and steam for three hours. Turn out, and serve with hot 
custard sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 3^ hours. In season always. Sufficien' 
ioT 5 or 6 persons. 

41—2 



642 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



short pastry, 
jam. 



2,205. EMPRESS PUDDING. 

J lb. rice. 2 yolks of eggs. | oz. sugar. 

\\ pints milk. 



1 white of egg. jam sauce (No. 163). 

Line the sides of a piedish with short pastry. Boil the rice in 1 pint of milk 
until nearly done. Put a layer of jam at the bottom of the piedish, then the 
cooked rice. Boil the | pint of milk and sugar together, beat the eggs, pour the 
milk on to them, and then add this custard to the mixture in the pie-dish. Place 
in a cool oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. Serve hot with jam sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. In season always. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

2,206. GINGERBREAD PUDDING. 

6 ozs. breadcrumbs. 6 ozs. suet, i 2 ozs. flour. 

\ lb. golden syrup. | 1 egg. | 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. 

Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin with the breadcrumbs, flour, and ginger ; 
mix well together. Beat the egg, and add the syrup to it. Mix these into the dry 
ingredients, and stir until all is thoroughly mixed. Butter a pudding-basin, put in 
the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for three hours. This pudding 
can also be boiled. Instead of the buttered paper, a pudding-cloth which has been 
scalded and floured must be tied over the top. When the pudding is cooked, turn 
it out on to a hot dish, and serve with it separately some sweet sauce or a custard 
sauce. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 3| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

2,207. FIG PUDDING. 

I lb. dried figs. 6 ozs. suet. i 2 eggs. 

I lb. breadcrumbs. 4 ozs. sugar. 1 2 tablespoonfuls treacle. 

Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin, add the breadcrumbs and sugar. Chop 
the figs, mix them with the rest of the dry ingredients. Break the eggs into a 
small basin, and beat them well. Add the treacle to the eggs, and stir into the 
mixture. Put this into a well-greased basin, tie over a scalded and floured cloth, 
and boil for three hours. During the cooking the pudding must be kept covered 
with water, which must not be allowed to go off the boil. Serve with any kind ot 
sweet sauce separately. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 3i hours. Seasonable in the winter. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,208. EVE'S PUDDING. 

2 ozs. bread- 2 ozs. currants. 6 apples. nutmeg. 

crumbs. 4 ozs. sugar. 6 eggs. sweet sauce (No. 165). 

Peel, core, and chop the apples ; clean the currants. Put these into a basin,, 
add the sugar, breadcrumbs, and nutmeg to taste. Beat the eggs well in a small 
basin, stir them into the rest of the ingredients ; mix all well together. Turn the 
mixture into a well-greased basin, cover with a cloth, and boil for two hours.^ 
When done, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



5 ozs. breadcrumbs. 



2,209. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

2 yolks eggs. 



3 ozs. sugar, 
vanilla essence. 



i lb. Cadbury's Mexican 
I pint milk. chocolate. 3 whites of eggs. 

Chop or grate the chocolate, boil it in the milk, add the sugar and vanilla. Put 
the breadcrumbs into a basin, pour the chocolate mixture on to it. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs well, and add them to the other ingredients ; whisk the whites stiflfly^ 



raisms. 

^ teaspoonful ground ginger. 

salt. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 643 

and stir them in lightly. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and steam 
for one hour. Serve with a suitable sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,210. GINGER PUDDING. 

5 ozs. bread. 1 oz. brown sugar. 

1 oz. loaf sugar. 4 ozs. suet. 
I pint milk. i 2 eggs. 

Cut the bread into dice, put it into a basin, add the brown sugar, a pinch of salt, 
the ginger, and the suet finely chopped. Put the loaf sugar into a saucepan, let it 
brown, then add the milk by degrees. Bring to the boil, remove from the fire, and 
let it cool a minute. Beat the eggs in a basin, add the milk to it, and mix well. 
Pour this over the dry ingredients, cover with a plate, and let them soak for thirty 
minutes or longer. Grease a mould well, ornament it with stoned raisins cut in 
halves, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for two hours. 
When done, turn the pudding out of the tin, and serve with a sweet sauce (No. 165). 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,211. BARONESS PUDDING. 

f lb. flour. I J lb. suet. | ^ pint milk. | | lb. stoned raisins. | 1 saltspoonful salt. 

Chop the suet finely, stone the raisins, and take | lb. after stoning. Put the 
suet, flour, and raisins into a basin, add the salt, stir all well together, then add 
the milk ; mix thoroughly. Turn into a well-greased basin, and boil for four and 
a half hours. The water must not be allowed to go off the boil, and the pudding 
must be kept covered with boiling water. When done, turn out the pudding on 
to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Id. Time required, 5 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 or 10 persons. 

2,212. SULTANA PUDDING. 



^ lb. flour. 

3 ozs. sultanas. 



1 teaspoonful egg- I J lb. sugar. 



salt. 

^ lb. beef-dripping. powder. I milk. 

Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, rub in the dripping, then add the sultanas, 
sugar, and egg-powder. JVIix to a dough with milk. Grease a pudding-basin, and 
fill it with the mixture to within 1 inch of the top. Boil for one hour. Turn it out 
of the basin when cooked, and serve with sweet sauce (No. 165). 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,213. GOLDEN SYRUP PUDDING. 

1 lb. flour. I lb. butter. ■ ^ lb. golden syrup. 

2 eggs. 1 pint milk. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Put the flour into a basin, add the butter, and rub it into the flour. IVIix in tht 
baking-powder. Beat the eggs in a basin, add the milk to them, and stir this into 
the flour and butter. Mix to a smooth batter. Grease a basin, pour in the golden 
syrup, and then the batter. The basin must be filled quite full. Tie in a cloth, 
and boil for two hours. Turn out when cooked on to a hot dish. The golden 
syrup will fall over the pudding, and forms the sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

2,214. MARMALADE PUDDING. 

6 ozs. broad- ! 1 lemon, i 3 ozs. suet. 

crumbs. i 2 eggs. | 2 ozs. candied-peel. 

Chop the suet and the candied peel finely, put them into a basin, add the bread- 
crumbs, and the grated rind of the lemon. Beat the eggs, add the marmalade to 



4 tablespoonfuls marmalade, 
marmalade sauce (No. lOG). 



644 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



them, and stir into the dry ingredients. Well grease a pudding -basin, turn th6 
mixture into it, cover with a greased paper, and steam for two hours. When done, 
turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with marmalade sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 2J hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 persons. 



J lb. breadcrumbs. 
3 ozs. suet. 
2 eggs. 



2,215. SNOWDON PUDDING. 

J oz. ground 3 tablespoonfuls marma- 

rice. lade. 

1 lemon-rind. salt. 



3 ozs. sugar. 
^ lb. raisins. 
\ gill milk. 



Stone the raisins, cut them in halves, but do not quite divide them. Grease a 
pudding-basin, and decorate it with the raisins, pressing the cut side against the 
basin. Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin, mix in with it the crumbs, rice. 




Fig. 158. — Snowdon Pudding. 



sugar, and salt. Grate the lemon-rind, and add. Stir in the marmalade, beat the 
eggs, add the milk to them, pour this to the ingredients. Mix all together thoroughly ; 
turn the mixture into the prepared basin, cover with a greased paper, and steam 
for one hour. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,216. TREACLE PUDDING (1). 



I lb. bread. 
6 ozs. suet. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 



2 eggs. 
vanilla essence. 



2 to 3 tablespoonfuls treacle. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Use pieces of stale bread, put them into a basin, pour over some cold water, and 
let them soak for about one hour or longer, then squeeze quite dry. Chop the suet, 
put it into a basin, add the bread, treacle, sugar, baking-powder, and the beaten 
eggs ; flavour to taste with vanilla. Mix thoroughly, put the mixture into a well- 
greased basin, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for three hours. Turn out 
on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce (No. 165). 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 3J hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 



645 



2,217. TREACLE PUDDING (2). 
1 lb. flour. I 8 0Z8. suet. ] 2 ozs. breadcrumbs. | ^ pint treacle. | salt. | ] Ifeinon. 
Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, chop the suet very finely, add it to the 
\ flour, mix with cold water to a stiff paste. Grease a pudding-basin, roll out some 
of the paste, and line the basin with it. Pour in some of the treacle, sprinkle over 
some breadcrumbs mixed with grated lemon-rind, cut out a thin round of paste, 
})ut this over the crumbs. Continue in this way until the basin is filled with the 
respective layers. Tie a pudding-cloth over the top of the basin, and boil for two 
to three hours. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 




Fig. 159. — Manchester Pudding. 



2,218. MANCHESTER PUDDING. 



1 pint cake or breadcrumbs. 
1 pint milk. 



rind of 1 lemon, 
jam. 



2 eggs. 

sugar to taste. 

Put the cake or breadcrumbs into a basin, mix in the milk, grate the lemon-rind 
thinly, stir it in, add sugar to taste and the yolks of the eggs. Mix all well together, 
turn the mixture into a greased pie-dish, place in the oven, and bake slowly. When 
firm, turn out the pudding on to a hot dish ; spread with jam. Beat the whites of 
the eggs very stiffly, put it over the jam, dredge with sugar, and return to the oven 
to set and lightly brown. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1 teaspoonful vinegar. 

J teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

sweet sauce (No. 165). 



2,219. ROTHESAY PUDDING. 

J lb. suet. \ lb. flour. 

1 gill milk. 4 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam. 

1 ®gg- i lb- breadcrumbs. 

Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin, and add to it the flour and bread* 

crumbs. Work in the jam, beat up the egg in a basin, add the milk to it, and stir 

it into the other ingredients. Mix the carbonate of soda with the vinegar, and stir 

it into the pudding. Mix thoroughly all together. Turn into a well-buttered 



646 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

basin or mould, cover with a greased paper, and steam for two hours. When 
cooked, turn out, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2J hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons, 

2,220. RAILWAY PUDDING. 

6 ozs. flour. 3 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 1 egg. 1^ gills milk. 

Put the flour, baking-powder, and sugar into a basin, rub in the butter, beat 
up the egg, add the milk to it, and mix all well together. Butter a flat Yorkshire 
tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour 
to three-quarters of an hour. Turn out when done, cut in pieces, dish up, and dredge 
with sugar. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
5 or 6 persons. 

2,221. BREAD- AND-TREACLE PUDDING. 
J lb. breadcrumbs. | ^ lb. beef-suet. | J lb. treacle. | 1 egg. | wine sauce. 

Chop the suet very finely, removing all the skin. Put it into a basin, add the 
breadcrumbs, treacle, and the egg well beaten. Mix these ingredients all well 
together, and turn into a well-greased pudding-basin. Cover with a cloth which 
has been scalded and floured, put into a saucepan of boihng water, and boil for 
four hours, keeping it filled with boiUng water. Turn it out, and serve with wine 
or any other sweet sauce. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 4| hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,222. CARROT PUDDING. 



6 ozs. beef- suet. 
6 ozs. flour. 



J lb. currants. 

1 oz. candied lemon-peeL 



5 ozs. boiled carrots. 
2\ ozs. moist sugar. 

Chop the suet very finely, put it into a basin, add the flour and sugar. Clean 
the currants, removing all the stalks ; grate or chop the boiled carrots very finely, 
and chop the lemon-peel. Put all these ingredients into a well-greased pudding- 
basin, cover with a cloth that has been scalded and floured, tie with string, place 
in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two and a half hours. Serve with 
sweet sauce. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



6 ozs. bread- 
crumbs. 



2,223. MARMALADE AND RAISIN PUDDING. 

IJ ozs. sago, 3 ozs. sugar. 1 large tablespoonful of marma- 



4 ozs. raisins. 



lade. 



4 ozs. suet. 

Stone the raisins, and divide them in halves. Grease a pudding-basin, and stick 
the raisins all over it. Chop the suet very finely, put it into a basin, and add the 
sago, sugar, and breadcrumbs. Mix all well together, and then put it carefully 
into the prepared basin. Cover with a pudding-cloth that has been scalded and 
floured, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. Turn out, 
and serve with sweet sauce. 

Average cost, 8d, Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons, 

2,224. PRUNE PUDDING. 
IJ lbs. prunes. | \ lb. flour. | J lb, suet, | J lb. breadcrumbs. I 1 egg. | milk. 

Wash the prunes, and then simmer them in a little water until the stones can 
be removed easily. Drain the water away and, after removing the stones, chop 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 647 

the prunes finely. Put the breadcrumbs and flour into a basin, chop the suet very 
finely, add it to the breadcrumbs and flour. Beat the egg in a basin, stir it into the 
pudding, and add a little milk if the mixture is too stiff. Put it into a well-buttered 
pudding-basin, cover with a cloth that has been scalded and then floured. Tie the 
pudding firmly with string, and put into a saucepan of boihng water. Let it boil 
for two hours, keeping it well covered with boihng water all the time. Turn the 
pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce or wine sauce. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 2h hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,225. FLORENCE PUDDINGS.' 



1 pint breadcrumbs. ^ lb. sugar. 



4 yolks of eggs. 

2 whites of eggs. 

1 glass of white wine or brandy. 



^ lb. suet. 6 ozs. currants. 

3 gills milk. nutmeg. 

Chop the suet, prepare the breadcrumbs, clean and pick the currants, grate the 
nutmeg. Put the breadcrumbs into a basin, boil the milk, and pour it over the 
crumbs. Let this soak until quite cold, then add the chopped suet, the sugar, 
currants, and nutmeg. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well, then add them 
to the other ingredients. Stir in the wine or brandy, and mix all together thoroughly. 
Grease some small moulds or cups, put in the mixture, but do not quite fill the 
moulds ; bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When done, take up, 
turn them out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve hot. 
Any kind of fruit or sweet sauce can be used instead of the wine sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suflfi- 
cient for 5 persons. 



2,226. COLLEGE PUDDINGS. 

^ lb. beef-suet. 12 ozs. bread- I 2 ozs. candied peel. 

4 ozs. currants. crumbs. | grated nutmeg. 



4 ozs. sugar. 
3 eggs. 



Put the breadcrumbs into a basin, chop the suet finely, clean the currants, and 
shred the candied peel. j\Iix these ingredients with the breadcrumbs, add half a 
grated nutmeg. Beat up the eggs, stir into the dry ingredients, mix all well together. 
Make the mixture up into round balls, or into the shapp of eggs, all the same size. 
Put some butter or lard into a frying-pan, place it on the fire, and as soon as the 
fat is very hot put in the puddings and fry them a golden brown. They should be 
cooked slowly, so that the puddings may be cooked through. Turn them several 
times, so that they may be evenly coloured. When done, take them up, drain on 
a piece of kitchen-paper, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. 

These puddings can also be baked or steamed. Grease some little moulds, put 
them into the oven or into a steamer, and cook for about half an hour. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Suffi- 
cient for 7 or 8 puddings. 

2,227. LEMON PUDDING (1). 
I lb. flour. I 1 large lemon. | 1 egg. | 6 ozs. suet. | J lb. sugar. | milk or water. 

Shred the suet, chop it finely. Put the flour into a basin, add the suet, mix it 
in with the fingers. Grate the lemon-rind, and strain the juice. Stir these into 
the fiour and suet, add the sugar, and mix all well together. Beat the egg in a 
small basin, add a little milk or water to it, stir into the dry ingredients, add more 
water or milk, if necessary, to make a paste. Grease a basin, put in the mixture, 
place a piece of greased paper over the top, put the pudding into a steamer, and 
steam for three to four hours. When done, turn out, and serve with lemon sauce 
(No. 165). 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 persons. 



648 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



J lb. breadcrumbs. 
I lb. flour. 



2,228. LEMON 

\ lb. beef-suet. 
\ lb. sugar. 



PUDDING 

2 lemons. 

3 eggs. 



(2). 

pinch of salt. 

lemon sauce (No. 165). 



Shred the suet, chop it finely. Put the breadcrumbs, suet, salt, and sugar into 
a basin ; mix well. Grate the lemons, and add the rind and strained lemon-juice 
to the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs in a small basin, stir them into the mixture ; 
mix all well together. Add a little Abater or milk, if necessary, to make into a stiff 
paste. Butter a pudding-basin, put in the mixture, place a piece of greased paper 
over, and steam for three to four hours. When done, turn out on to a hot dish, 
and serve with lemon sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

2,229. CHRISTMAS PLUM-PUDDING. 



J lb. breadcrumbs. 


^ lb. raisins. 


\ lb. mixed candied 


1 gill brandy. 


1 lb. beef-suet. 


1 lb. currants. 


peel. 


3 ozs. almonds 


1 lb. moist sugar. 


2 nutmegs. 


8 eggs. 


pinch of salt. 



Chop the suet finely, put it into a basin with the breadcrumbs, salt, sugar, 
grated nutmeg, the raisins (which should be weighed after stoning), the currants 
oleaned, and the peel cut into small pieces. Blanch and chop the almonds, add 
them to the rest of the ingredients. Break the eggs into a small basin, beat them 
thoroughly, pour them into the dry ingredients, and mix all well together. Lastly, 
stir in the brandy. The pudding will keep for two or three months if the brandy 
is added. It is a good plan to keep the pudding in the basin for a week, stirring 
it every day during that time. The flavours are better blended if this is done. 
When ready to cook, fill a buttered basin with the mixture, tie over a scalded and 
floured cloth, and boil for twelve hours. Keep well covered with boiling water 
during the cooking. After the pudding is done it can be hung up until wanted 
It can be boiled or steamed for one hour when desired. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required to make, 1| hours ; 12 hours to boil. Season- 
able at Christmas-time. Sufficient for 12 persons. 



2,230. MINCEMEAT. 



1 lb. beef -suet. 
IJ lbs. currants. 

2 lbs. sugar. 



1 lb. apples. 
1 lb. raisins, 
f lb. mixed peel. 



1 gill brandy. 

J oz. ground ginger. 

I lb. sweet almonds. 



rind and juice of 

4 lemons. 
J pint raisin wine. 



2 nutmegs 
(grated). 
^ oz. salt. 

Chop the suet, peel and core the apples, stone the raisins ; chop them, also the 
mixed peel, and add them to the suet. Clean the currants, stir into the rest of the 
ingredients, add the ginger, nutmeg, and salt. Blanch the almonds, chop, and add 
with the grated lemon-rind. Mix these dry ingredients all well together. Mix the 
three liquids — i.e., the juice of the lemons, brandy, and raisin wine — pour them 
over the mincemeat, stir well. Keep in close-covered jars, well pressed down, in 
a cool place. When wanted, stir it from the bottom, and add half a glass of brandy 
to the quantity required. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at Christmas-time. 



2,231. BOILED BREAD PUDDING. 



stale bread. 
J lb. suet. 



i lb. flour. 
\ lb. currants. 



golden syrup. 

1 teaspoonful of mixed spice. 



J lb. raisins. 

2 ozs. candied peel. 

Put some stale bread into a basin, cover it with cold water, and leave it to 
soak until perfectly soft ; then strain off the water, put the bread into a clean 
kitchen-cloth, and wring out all the water. Prepare enough of this soaked bread 
to weigh 1 lb. after the water is removed, put the bread into a basin, and beat well 
with a fork until it is quite separate ; then stir in the flour. Chop the suet finely, 
stone the raisins, and cut each in halves ; clean the currants, and chop the peel. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 649 

Add all these ingredients and also the spice to the bread mixture. Mix thoroughly, 
and add enough golden syrup to bind the pudding. Well grease a pudding-basin, 
put in the mixture, press down well, and cover with a wetted and floured pudding- 
cloth. Put into a saucepan of fast-boihng water, and boil for three hours. Turn 
out, and serve with sweet sauce (No. 165). 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 4 hours. In season all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



2,232. HERODOTUS PUDDING. 



J lb. suet. 

J lb. breadcrumbs. 

I lb. raisins. 



2 figs. 

J oz. allspice. 

1 oz. sugar. 



milk. 

^ lemon. 

brandy sauce (No. 149). 



legg. 

J gill sherry or 
brandy. 

Chop the suet finely, removing all skin. Put it into a basin, add the bread- 
crumbs, sugar, and allspice. Stone the raisins, and cut each in halves. Chop the 
figs very finely, add these to the ingredients in the basin, also the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Break the egg into a basin, and beat thoroughly. Stir this into the 
pudding, and also the sherry or brandy. IVlix thoroughly, and add a Httle milk if 
necessary. Butter a pudding-basin, and put in the mixture. Rinse a pudding- 
cloth in boihng water, sprinkle it with flour, and cover the pudding with it. Tie 
with string, and place in a saucepan of boihng water. Boil for four hours, keeping 
the pan filled with boiling water all the time. Turn it out, and serve with sherry 
or brandy sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 5 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,233. FIG DUMPLINGS. 



^ lb. flour. 1 4 ozs. figs. 

4 ozs. beef-suet. | 1 oz. sugar. 



milk. 



^ teaspoonful baking- 
powder, pinch of salt. 

Put a pinch of salt and the baking-powder with the flour, sieve into a basin ; 
chop the suet finely, and mix it into the flour. Add the sugar, cut up the figs into 
small pieces, put them with the rest of the ingredients. Mix all well together, add 
a httle milk, sufficient to mix. Divide the mixture into five or six equal parts, 
shape them into round dumphngs, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and 
cook for an hour or an hour and a half. Serve hot with a sweet sauce. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 1| to 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,234. POUDING A LA NESSELRODE (CHESTNUT PUDDING). 

1 lb. chestnuts. I 3 ozs. castor sugar. glace cherries. 

vanilla-pod. i 1 oz. butter. angelica. 

1 pint milk. I 3 eggs. apricot sauce (No. 148). 

Slit the chestnuts with a sharp knife, put them on a baking-sheet, and put in 
a moderate oven until the shell and inner skin can be removed. When this is done, 
put them into a saucepan, pour over them ^ pint of milk and ^ pint of water ; add 
a small vanilla-pod, put the pan on the fire, and cook until the chestnuts are tender. 
When done, remove the vanilla-pod, and rub the chestnuts through a wire sieve. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chestnuts, and mix over the fire ; then add 
^ pint of milk, the sugar, and the yolks of the eggs. Mix well off the fire, whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir hghtly into the mixture. Butter a timbale 
or charlotte mould, decorate it with glace cherries and angelica ; fill with the mixture, 
cover with a buttered paper, and put it into a steamer, and steam for about one 
hour. When done, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, November to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



650 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,235. TIMBALES DE FLORADOR AUX ABRICOTS (FLORADOR TIMBALES 

WITH APRICOTS). 



1 pint milk. 
4 ozs. florador. 



2 ozs. loaf sugar. 
1 lemon. 



3 eggs. I glace cherries. 

8 halves of preserved apricots. | apricot syrup. 

Peel the lemon very thinly, put it into a stewpan with the milk, add the loaf- 
sugar, and bring the milk slowly to the boil ; then remove the lemon-rind, and 
sprinkle in the florador, stirring meanwhile. Boil for ten minutes. Take the pan 
off the fire, work in the egg-yolks one at a time ; beat well, whisk the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Butter some small 
timbale-moulds, fill them with the florador preparation, put them into a steamer, 
(^over with a buttered paper, and steam for thirty to forty minutes. Put the 
apricots into a stewpan with their syrup, warm them over the fire. When the tim- 
bales are done, turn them out on to a hot dish, decorate them with glace cherries 
and angelica ; arrange the apricots in the centre of the dish. Reduce the syrup with 
a little sugar added to it, stir in the juice of half a lemon, and pour it round the 
timbales. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,236. BAKED RAISIN PUDDING. 



1 lb. flour. 

8 ozs. dripping. 

4 ozs. moist sugar. I 6 ozs. raisins. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 



2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful mixed 
spice. 



1 gill milk. 

1 oz. candied lemon-peel. 

castor sugar. 



Put the dripping into a basin with the fiour and baking-powder, rub together 
until it is quite fine, and resembles breadcrumbs ; then add the spice, the candied 
peel cut up finely, the moist sugar, and the stoned raisins. Mix these ingredients 
all well together. Beat the eggs, add the milk to them, and mix with the other 
ingredients. Stir all well together, turn the mixture into a well-buttered tin or 
pie-dish, put in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. When done, take it out 
of the oven, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, sprinkle castor sugar over it, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

2,237. RAISIN CRUSTS. 

i lb. raisins. | 2 ozs. castor sugar. | 1 gill white wine. | slices of stale bread. | 2 ozs. butter. 
Stone the raisins, put them into a stewpan with the sugar and wine, and stew 
them for ten minutes or a little longer. Cut the shces of bread into squares, take 
off the crust. The bread should be about 3 inches square, and 1| inches thick. 
Put the butter into a frjring-pan, and, when hot, put in the squares of bread, and 
fry them until a golden colour. Drain them well on a piece of kitchen-paper, 
arrange them on a hot dish, pour the stewed raisins over the croutes, dredge with 
castor sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,238. BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. 

6 thin slices of bread and butter. | 1 oz. sugar. | a few currants. | 1 pint milk. | 2 eggs. 

Well butter a pie-dish, fill it with alternate layers of the bread and butter and 
currants. Beat the eggs in a basin, add the milk and sugar, and pour it into the 
pie-dish. Put in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes or until it 
is set. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



651 



3 teaspoonfuls of milk or more. 
1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



jam, syrup, or marma- 
lade. 



2,239. SPONGE PUDDING. 

2 ozs. butter. | 4 ozs. flour. 
2 ozs. sugar. | 1 egg. 

Grease a mould or basin, put a thick layer of marmalade, jam, or syrup at the 
bottom. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, cream them together until soft ; 
work in the eggs one at a time, beat well. Sieve the flour, mix the baking-powder 
with it, stir it into the butter and eggs, add the milk. Turn this mixture into the 
prepared mould or basin, put it into a steamer, cover with a greased paper, and 
steam for one and a half hours. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,240. POUDING AU PAIN NOIR (BROWN-BREAD PUDDING). 



8 ozs. brown breadcrumbs. 
1 pint milk. 



vanilla. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



6 yolks of eggs. 
4 whites of eggs. 



custard sauce (No. 156). 
3 ozs. butter. 



Put the breadcrumbs into a basin, boil the milk, and pour it on to the crumbs, 
and let them soak. Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; work in the 
yolks of the eggs, and beat well. Stir in the breadcrumbs, and flavour with 
vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir them hghtly into the mixture. 
Have ready a buttered mould, pour the mixture into it, cover with a piece of 
buttered paper, steam for about forty-five minutes. When done, turn out the 
pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with custard sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,241. CONSERVATIVE PUDDING. 



3 ozs. sponge 

cake. 
2 ozs. macaroons. 



1 pint milk. 
1 oz. ratafias. 
J gill brandy. 



4 yolks eggs. 

sweet sauce (No. 165). 

glace cherries. 



1 whole egg. 
1 tablespoonful apricot 
jam. 

Put the sponge cake, macaroons, and ratafias into a basin, pour the milk over 
them, and let them soak well ; then beat up the cakes with a fork, mix in the brandy, 
beat the eggs well, and pour them into the rest of the ingredients. ]\Iix all well 
together. Butter a charlotte or souffle tin, decorate it with a few glace cherries, 
put in haK the mixture, then spread a layer of apricot jam. Add the rest of the 
mixture, cover with a piece of buttered paper, put the pudding into a steamer, and 
steam for one hour. When cooked, turn out the pudding on to a hot dish, and 
serve with a tureen of sweet sauce flavoured with brandy. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



2,242. POUDING VIENNOISE (VIENNA PUDDING). 



6 ozs. stale bread. 
2 ozs. loaf sugar. 



2 ozs. candied peel. 

3 ozs. sultanas. 



1 lemon, 
wine sauce. 



I pint milk. 1 glass sherry. 

4 eggs. I gill cream. 

Cut the bread into small cubes, and put it into a basin. Cut up the candied peel 
small, clean and pick the sultanas. Add these to the bread, also the grated rind of 
the lemon. Put the loaf sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and let it remain until 
it is a brown colour ; then add the milk, and stir until the sugar is melted. Beat 
the yolks of four eggs and two whites, whip them well, add the milk and sugar to 
them, and pour it over the bread and the other ingredients. Add the cream and 
wine, mix all well together. Butter a pudding-mould, put in the mixture, cover 
with a piece of greased paper, place in a steamer, and steam for one and a half hours. 
^Vhen done, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



652 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,243. OSBORNE PUDDING. 

6 thin slices of bread and butter. | 1 oz. sugar. | 1 pint of milk. [ 2 eggs. | marmalade. 

Well butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of bread and butter, then a thin layer ol 
orange marmalade, then more bread and butter. Continue in this way until the 
dish is full. Beat the eggs in a basin, add the milk and sugar, pour this into the 
pie-dish. Place in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes or until 
it sets. Turn out on to a hot dish. Have ready some marmalade which has been 
made hot over the fire. Pour this over and round the pudding. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 




P'lG, 160. — Hot FLouADoii Shape. 



1 pint milk, 
rind of J a lemon. 



1 oz. butter. 

jam sauce (No. 163). 



2,244. HOT FLORADOR SHAPE. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls florador 

3 ozs. sugar. (medium grain). 

Peel the lemon very thinly, so as not to remove any of the white skin, put it 
into a saucepan with the milk, place the pan by the side of the fire, and let it remain 
until the milk is well flavoured with the lemon ; then strain it, return the milk to 
the saucepan, and, when boiUng, sprinkle in the florador. Simmer gently until the 
florador has absorbed the milk. The mixture must be kept well stirred. Add the 
sugar, and then let it cool a little. Beat the eggs well, and add them and the butter 
to the florador. Grease a mould well, turn the mixture into it, and steam for 
twenty to thirty minutes. To serve, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and 
pour jam sauce flavoured with wine over or round it. Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,245. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 

4 ozs. flour. I ^ pint milk. | salt. | 1 oz. castor sugar. | 2 eggs. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, break in the eggs, add the 

sugar, a pinch of salt, and a Httle of the milk. Stir until smooth. Add the rest of 

the milk by degrees, beat the batter well, and let it stand for about half an hour or 

longer. Butter a pudding-basin just the right size to hold the mixture, pour in the 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 653 

batter. Dip a pudding-cloth in boiling water, wring out, flour the centre of the 
cloth, place it over the pudding, tie it round with string. Have ready a saucepan 
of boiling water, put in the puddi ig, boil for one and a half hours. Turn out when 
done, and serve with sweet sauce, or with golden syrup or jam. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

2,246. BATTER PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 
1 lb. apples or gooseberries. | 6 ozs. flour. | li ozs. sugar. | pinch of salt. | 2 eggs. | ^ pint milk. 

Peel and core the apples, or, if gooseberries are used, top and tail them (any 
fruit, such as currants, raspberries, rhubarb, etc., can be used for this pudding). 
Cut the apples in slices, sprinkle them with the sugar. Grease a pudding-basin, 
put in the apples, wliich should nearly fill the basin. Sieve the flour into a basin, 
add a pinch of salt, break in the egg, add the milk by degrees, and beat it until 
smooth and light. Pour the batter over the fruit, cover with a buttered paper, 
place in a steamer, and steam for one hour. Turn out when done on to a hot dish, 
and serve at once. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable, with apples, from 
September to May ; with gooseberries, from May to June. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,247. BOILED CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk. | 6 yolks of eggs. i 2 ozs. loaf sugar. | 2 whites of eggs. | flavouring. 

Break the eggs into a basin, putting aside four of the whites ; beat the eggs 
thoroughly with a fork. Put the milk into a stewpan, and, if lemon is used for 
flavouring, the thinly peeled rind must be added to the milk. Bring to the boil, 
add the sugar, take off the fire, and let the milk cool a minute ; then pour it on to 
the eggs, stirring meanwhile. Take out the lemon-rind, return the mixture to the 
stewpan, put it over a low fire, and stir until it thickens. The custard must not 
be allowed to boil or the eggs will curdle and the custard be spoilt. As soon as 
the custard is made, pour it into a basin, and let it get cold, then use as directed. 
A good way to make custard so as to be sure that it will not curdle is to put it in a 
jug, and stand the jug in a saucepan of boihng water. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,248. RICE CUSTARD. 
1 pint milk. | 1 oz. ground rice, | 2 eggs. | 2 ozs. sugar. | nutmeg. | lemon. 

Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well with a fork, put the milk into a 
saucepan with the sugar and the lemon-rind, bring to the boil, and then sprinkle 
in the ground rice, stirring well. Boil for ten minutes, then cool a httle, and add 
the eggs. Stir until it thickens, remove the lemon-rind, and turn into a dish. 
Grate some nutmeg over, and serve with stewed fruit, either hot or cold. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,249. LITTLE BREAD-AND-BUTTER DUMPLINGS. 



^ pint milk. 
3 ozs. butter. 



1 oz. lemon-peel, 
jam sauce (No. 163). 



1 oz. bread- 3 eggs, 
crumbs. grated nutmeg. 

Boil the milk, put the breadcrumbs into a basin, pour the milk over them. 
Melt the butter, and add it to the milk and bread. Let the mixture get cold, then 
beat the eggs, add them to the other ingredients ; beat them all well together. 
Chop the lemon-peel, and add it with the nutmeg. Grease some dariole-moulds, 
put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. When done, 
turn out, and serve with wine sauce. 

Average cost, lOd, Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 persons. 



654 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



3 oranges. 
2 bananas. 



2,250. BONNE-BOUCHES AUX FRUITS. 

2 apricots. 



-| gill syrup. 
2 whites of eggs. 



\ gill claret ot 
sherry. 



1 slice pineapple. 
sugar. I glace cherries. 

Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp carefully, so as not to break the 
skins. Pass the pulp through a sieve, add the syrup and the wine to it, and put 
into a stewpan. Peel the bananas, cut them in shces, cut the apricots and pine- 
apple into dice. Put these with the syrup, add some glace cherries, place the pan 
on the fire, and cook gently for about three to five minutes. Fill the orange-rinds 
with this fruit (any other fruit in season can be used). Wliip the whites of eggs to 
a stiS froth, cover the top of each with it, dust thickly with castor sugar, and 
place in the oven to set and slightly brown the meringue. When done, dish up, 

and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 181. — Bonne-Bouches aux Fruits. 



1 gill water. 
1| ozs. butter. 



J pint breadcrumbs. 

a few brown breadcrumbs. 



2,251. FRIAR'S OMELET. 

\\ lbs. apples. 
3 ozs. sugar. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them up, and put into a stewpan with the sugar 
and water. Let them stew until quite soft, then add the butter. Butter a pie- 
dish, sprinkle breadcrumbs all over it, fill with alternate layers of apple and bread- 
crumbs, sprinkle the top with brown crumbs, and bake in a hot oven for about 
ten minutes. When done, turn out on to a hot dish, sprinkle with castor sugar, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2 ozs. ground rice. 
2 ozs. butter. 



J teaspoonful lemon - 
rind. 



6 ozs. flour. 
3 ozs. butter. 



1 egg- 
currants. 



2,252. KENTISH PUDDING PIE. 

1 pint milk. 

2 ozs. sugar. 

Put the flour into a basin, add the butter, break it up into small pieces, and rub 
it into the flour until it looks like breadcrumbs. Add sufficient water to make it 
into a stiS paste. Turn it on to a floured board, roll it out, and line a pie-dish 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



655 



with it. Trim neatly round the edge. Mix the ground rice in a basin with a little 
of the milk, put the remainder of the milk into a saucepan, bring to the boil ; then 
add the rice, and stir over the fire. Let it boil for five minutes, then stir in the 
sugar and butter. Beat the egg, grate the lemon-rind finely, stir these into the rice. 
Turn this mixture into the prepared pie-dish, and sprinkle thickly with currants. 
' Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty to thirty minutes. N.B. — If not liked, 
the lemon-peel may be omitted. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,253. CABINET PUDDING. 

3 gills milk. angelica, 

sponge-cake. 4 eggs. 

Well butter a pint timbale-mould, decorate the bottom with cherries and 
angelica. Break into pieces sufficient sponge-cake to half fill the mould. Put two 



6 glace cherries, 
vanilla essence. 



1 oz. castor 
sugar. 




Fig. 162. — Cabinet Pudding. 



whole eggs and two yolks into a basin, and beat them lightly. Boil up the milk 
and sugar together, let it go off the boil, add to it some vanilla essence, stir the 
milk into the eggs, and pour this over the sponge-cake in the mould. Cover with 
a piece of buttered paper, put into a steamer, and steam slowly for thirty minutes. 
Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve with jam, sweet or custard sauce. 
Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,254. POTATO PUDDING. 

J lb. cooked potatoes. | salt. | 2 ozs. butter. | 2 eggs. | 2 lemons. | 3 ozs. sugar. 
Peel and cook the potatoes, drain and dry ; rub them while hot through a wire 
sieve. Put this puree into a basin, add the sugar, salt, and grated lemon-rind to 
it, stir all together. Beat the eggs, mix them and the lemon-juice into the dry 
ingredients, melt the butter, and add that. Turn the mixture into a buttered 
pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. or 7d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

PT. IX. 42 



656 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



POTATO-AND-APPLE PUDDING. 



2 eggs. 

rind of lemon. 



\ lb. stewed apples. 
I lb. mashed potatoes. 



2,255. 

2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. sugar. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, work them together with a wooden spoon 
until creamy, break in one egg, stir it into the butter and sugar, and beat W(.ll, 
then add the second egg in the same way. Have the apples ready stewed to a 
pulp and the potatoes cooked and mashed. Stir these into the butter and sugar, 
grate the lemon-rind, and add. Butter a mould well, turn in the mixture, and 
bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Turn out when done on to a hot 
dish, and serve with a suitable sauce. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to M;i.y. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 




Fig. 163. — Caramel Pudding. 



2,256. CARAMEL PUDDING. 
For the Caramel. 

2 ozs. loaf sugar. | 



\ gill cold water. 



For the Pudding. 



\ lemon. 



4 yolks of eggs. | 2 whites of eggs. | | oz. castor sugar. | \ pint milk. | 
Put the loaf-sugar and the | gill of water into a small stewpan, boil quickly 
without stirring until the water has evaporated and the sugar colours a dark browJi. 
Now stir it so as to get it the same colour all through, and pour it into a dry, plain 
timbale or charlotte mould. Coat the mould with it. Break the four yolks and 
two whites of eggs into a basin, and beat well. Put the milk into a saucepan, add 
the sugar and the thinly peeled rind of the lemon (this can be omitted if not hked), 
bring slowly to the boil. Take off the fire, let cool a fittle, then strain it on to the 
eggs. Pour into the mould that has been coated with the caramel, put the pudding 
into a steamer, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and steam slowly for 
half an hour. Turn out on to a dish, and the caramel will run over it to form a 
sauce. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 6d. or 7d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufiicient for 3 or 4 persons. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



657 



2,257. POUDING AU CHOCOLAT MERINGUE (CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

MERINGUED). 

1 pint milk. | U ozs. cornflour. | 4 eggs. | 3 ozs. chocolate. | 2 ozs. castor sugar. | vanilla. 

Put the cornflour into a basin, and add sufficient milk to make it into a smooth 
paste. Chop the chocolate into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the milk, 
bring to the boil, stir until the chocolate is melted, then add 1 oz. of the sugar. 
Stir in the cornflour, and cook until it thickens. Simmer for ten minutes, let cool 
a little, then add the yolks of the eggs and one white, add a few drops of vanilla 
essence. Butter a charlotte or souffle tin, turn the mixture into it, and steam for 
about forty minutes, or the pudding can be baked in a moderate oven for about 
thirty minutes. When the pudding is nearly cooked, beat three whites of eggs to 
a stiff froth, mix with it 1 oz. of sugar. Turn the pudding out when done on to a 
hot dish, cover with the meringue mixture, sprinkle sugar over, and put into the 
oven to set the meringue and to let it colour. Serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 




Fig. 164.— Castle Puddings. 

2,258. CASTLE PUDDINGS. 

2 eggs. I the weight of the eggs in butter. | flour. | sugar. | k teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, work them with a wooden spoon until 
•creamy, then break in one egg. Stir until thoroughly mixed with the butter and 
sugar, then beat the mixture, add the other egg, and proceed in the same way. 
Stir in the flour and baking-powder, mix quickly. Grease some small dariole- 
moulds or other fancy tins, fill half full with the mixture, place them on a baking- 
sheet in the oven, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Turn out, and serve with 
jam sauce (No. 163). 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 moulds. 



2,259. POUDING SAXON 



2 ozs. loaf sugar. 
4 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. castor sugar. 
4 ozs. flour. 



sabayon sauco 
(No. 173). 



(SAXONY PUDDING). 

I 3 gills milk. 
I 5 eggs. 

Put the butter and castor sugar into a basin, and cream together ; add the flour. 
Put the loaf-sugar into a i^inall stewpan, melt and colour to a light brown ; then 

42—2 



658 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



add the milk, and boil up. Stir this into the butter and flour by degrees, put this 
mixture into a saucepan, and stir over the fire vigorously until it becomes a panada. 
Take it off the fire, and beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time Whisk the 
whites very stiffly, and stir them into the pudding lightly and quickly Pour into 
a well-buttered mould, and steam for about one hour. When done, turn out, and 
serve with sabayon sauce. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable at all times- 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,260. MARIE PUDDINGS. 



2 eggs. 

sugar and flour. 



the weight of the eggs in 
butter. 



jam. 
cocoanut. 



I teaspoonful baking-pov.'dcr. 
jam sauce (No. 163). 

Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon, beat in the eggs one 
at a time, stir in the flour and baking-powder, mix well. Put into small greased 
dariole-moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, turn out of the moulds. 




Fig. 165. — Maeie Puddings. 



Coat the shapes round the sides with jam, roll in cocoanut, place a teaspoonful of 
jam on the top of each, and serve hot with jam sauce poured round. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 moulds. 



LITTLE CITRON PUDDINGS. 



wine sauce or rum sauce 
(No. 171). 



2,261, 

J pint milk, i 2 ozs. citron-peel, j ^ oz. flour. 

1 oz. sugar. 1 nutmeg. | 3 yolks of eggs. 

Mix the flour with enough of the milk to make a smooth paste. Put the rest 
of the milk into a saucepan with the sugar, and, when boiling, stir it on to the 
mixed flour. Return to the saucepan, and cook over the fire for a few minutes, 
stirring all the time. Turn it into a basin, and, when cool enough, mix in the beaten 
yolks of eggs, a Uttle grated nutmeg, and the citron cut in very fine pieces. Butter 
some dariole-moulds, pour the mixture into them, place them in a steamer, cover 
with buttered paper, and let them steam gently for twenty to thirty minutes. 
When set, turn them out on a hot dish, pour wine sauce round them, and also serve 
some separately in a sauce-boat. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 persons. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 659 



FRUIT PUDDINGS— POMMES (APPLES) 



2,262. POUDING A LA NORMANDE (NORMANDY PUDDING). 

1^ lbs. cooking apples. 
2 ozs. butter. 
1 lemon. 



3 ozs. sugar. I 3 eggs. 

4 ozs. browTi bread- i 2 gills claret, 
crumbs. i | gill cream. 



1 tablespoonful apricot jam. 
1 tablespoonful red-currant 

jelly. 

Peel and cut the apples in quarters, take out the cores, put them into a stewpan, 
add to them 2 ozs. of sugar, the butter, and the thinly-peeled lemon-rind, cover the 
pan, and cook the apples slowly until tender either in the o-ven or over a slow fire. 
Put the breadcrumbs and 1 oz. of sugar into a basin, add the eggs well beaten, and 
1 gill of the wine. When the apples are soft, take them up, and strain the syrup 
from them into the other ingredients, add the cream, and mix all well together. 
Well butter a mould or pie-dish, place a layer of the mixture at the bottom of the 
dish, and then a layer of the apples. Continue in this way until the apples and 
mixture are used up. Bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Put the 
jam, red-currant jelly, 1 gill of claret, and the juice of the lemon into a small stew- 
pan, bring to the boil, and simmer very gently for ten minutes. When the pudding 
is done, turn it out of the mould or pie-dish on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,263. CASSEROLE DE POMMES. 
6 or 8 russet apples. | 3 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. castor sugar. | 1 gill water. 

Core the apples with a cutter, taking care not to break them. Put the butter 
into a basin, add the sugar, cream them together, divide this into equal parts, and 
fill the centre of each apple. Arrange the apples in an earthenware dish, pour in 
the water, and put them into a moderate oven and cook gently until the apples are 
tender. Serve in the dish they were cooked in. 

Average cost, 6d. or 7d. Time required, f hour. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



2,264. POMMES A LA RUSSE. 

6 appks. I I oz. butter. | 1^ gills ^ gill milk. 

^ oz. sugar. 



i lemon. 
2 eggs. 



3 ozs. sugar. ' ^ oz. flour. I water. 

Put the water and sugar into a stewpan, put on the fire, and cook until a thin 
syrup is made. Choose the apples all one size and a good shape, peel them, cut off 
a slice, and scoop out the pulp, so that they form cases. Put these into a stewpan, 
add the syrup to them, cover, and place them in the oven to cook. They must 
not be done too much, but should be firm. When done, drain them well. Stew 
the pulp that was removed from the inside of the apples with some of the syrup in 
which the apple-cases were cooked. When done, rub the stewed pulp through a 
sieve, fill the apple-cases one-third full with the puree. Melt the ^ oz. of butter 
in a stewpan, put in the flour, add the milk, and stir until it thickens and leaves 
the sides of the saucepan. Take the pan off the fire, stir in the sugar and the grated 
lemon-rind, and as soon as the mixture has cooled a little beat in the yolks of the 
eggs. W'hisk the whites to a stiff froth, stir them lightly to the mixture, fill the 
apples with this preparation, place them on a baking-tin, and put in a cool oven for 
about twenty minutes. When done, dish up, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



660 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



6 cooking apples. 
1 oz. flour. 



2,265. POMMES A L'AMERICAINE (APPLES, AMERICAN STYLE). 

1 egg. apricot jam. red-currant i frying-fat (No. 197). 

cakecrumbs. 6 glace cherries. j^^ly- I syrup. 

Choose the apples as much as possible the same size, peel and core them care- 
fully, so as not to break them. Put a gill of syrup into a stewpan or baking-tin, 
put in the apples, and cook over the fire or in the oven until nearly done. Baste 
them occasionally with the syrup. Let them get cold, then roll them in the flour, 
brush them over with beaten egg, toss in sifted cakecrumbs, and fry in boiling fat 
a golden brown. Drain on a piece of kitchen-paper, fill the centres with apricot 
jam, cut out some rounds of red-currant jelly, place one on the top of each applo 
and a glace cherry on that. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. An apricot syrup 
should be sent to table separately with the apples. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 166. — Pommes a l'Americaine. 



2,266. POMMES AU BEURRE (APPLES WITH BUTTER). 



8 russet apples. 
1 gill syrup. 



lemon. 

4 ozs. butter. 



1 tablespoonful brandy or | 4 ozs. sugar, 
sherry. I genoise croutons. 

Peel the apples, take out the core without breaking them, put them into a 
stewpan of boiling water seasoned with lemon-juice, and boil them for two minutes. 
Take them up, drain, and place them in a buttered stewpan. Add the S3rrup 
flavoured with lemon, put on the lid of the pan, and cook them in the oven. When 
done, dish them on little croutons of genoise cake which have been glazed in the 
oven. Cream the butter and sugar together, work in the brandy or sherry, and 
fill the centre of each apple with it. Pour the syrup the apples were cooked in 
over them, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2,267. POMMES A LA PARISIENNE. 

2 whites sugar, 

eggs. syrup. 

Put the milk into a stewpan. As soon as it boils, sprinkle in the rice, and boiJ 
until tender, stirring constantly until the rice is done. Sweeten to taste, and 



6 apples, 
genoise cake. 



1 glass kirsch. 

2 ozs. rice. 



\ pint milk, 
vanilla. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 661 

flavour with vanilla. Peel the apples (they should all be the same size as far as 
possible), cut a slice off the top of each, and scoop out some of the pulp so that they 
resemble cases. Have ready a thin syrup in a stewpan, put in the apples, and cook 
them, keeping them rather firm. When done, drain well. Make a genoise cake in 
a flat, round cake-tin, place it on a dish, pour over it some syrup to which the 
kirsch has been added, arrange on this the apple-cases. Put the pulp taken from 
the centre of the apples through a sieve, mix it with the rice, fill the apples, and 
put the remainder of the mixture on the cake in the centre of the apples. Arrange 
it to the shape of a pyramid. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in 
3 ozs. of sugar, mix lightly, put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, decorate the 
top of the apples with this, put a large rosette of the salne on the top of the rice 
pyramid, and bake in a cool oven until the meringue is set. When taken from the 
oven, garnish with glace cherries, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



8 cooking apples. 
i pint syrup. 
I lemon. 



2,268. POMMES A LA FLORENTINE (APPLES, FLORENTINE STYLE). 

2 ozs. rice. apricot jam. J gill cream. pistachio- 

i pint milk, 1 lb. chest- vanilla. nuts. 

I oz. sugar. nuts. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 

Peel and core the apples without breaking them, put the syrup into a stewpan 
with the juice of the lemon, and cook over the fire or in the oven until tender, 
keeping them somewhat firm. Put the milk into a stewpan with J oz. of sugar. 
As soon as it boils, sprinkle in the rice, and cook until tender, stirring constantly. 
Flavour with vanilla. Slit the chestnuts, put them on a baking-tin in the oven, 
and bake until the shells and inner skin can be removed easily ; then boil them in 
water until tender. Drain, and rub them through a fine sieve. Melt 1 oz. of 
butter in a stewpan, put in the puree of chestnuts, add the cream, sugar to taste, 
and a few drops of vanilla. Mix all well together over the fire. Press tliis pre- 
paration into a flat buttered round tin, turn it out on to a hot dish, fill the centre 
of the apples with the prepared rice, arrange them on the chestnut-border, put a 
spoonful of apricot jam on the top of the apple over the rice, put the dish in the oven 
to get thoroughly hot. Before sending to table, sprinkle all over with chopped 
pistachio-nuts, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to 
February. Safficient for 8 persons. 



2,269. POMMES A LA CONDE. 



6 apples. H pints milk. 1 gill syrup. 



6 ozs. rice. 



2 ozs. sugar. 



lemon, 
apricot jam. 



glace cherries, 
angelica. 



vanilla. 

Boil the milk in a saucepan with the sugar and the thinly-peeled rind of the 
lemon. As soon as it comes to the boil, sprinkle in the rice, and cook until tender, 
stirring constantly. When done, take out the lemon-rind, and press the rice into 
a border-mould, and keep hot. Peel and core the apples, place them in a buttered 
stewpan, add the syrup, a little vanilla, put on the lid of the pan, and put them 
in the oven to cook. When done, drain, turn out the rice-border on to a hot dish, 
arrange the apples on it, pour the syrup over them, and decorate with glace cherries 
and angelica. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,270. POMMES A LA PORTUGAISE (APPLES, PORTUGUESE STYLE). 
8 apples. I ^ pint syrup. | maraschino. | apricot jam. | glace cherries. | lemon-juioe. 
Peel and core the apples, rub them over with lemon-juice, put them into a 
stcAvpan with the syrup, flavour with maraschino, put on the lid of the pan, and 



662 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

cook them slowly either in the oven or over the fire until tender. Keep them 
somewhat firm. When cooked, take them up, dress them on a hot dish in a circle, 
fill the centre of each apple with apricot jam, and place a cherry on the top of each. 
Serve with the syrup the apples were cooked in. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August to June. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2,271. GRATED APPLE PUDDING. 



apples. 



1 lemon. 2 ozs. butter. 

J oz. ground rice. sugar to tast«. puff -pastry (No. 2,185). 

Line the sides of a pie-dish with puff-pastry, cut out some small stars of pastry, 
and decorate the edge of the dish with them, placing them overlapping each other. 
Peel and core some apples, grate enough of them to fill a breakfast-cup, put them 
into a basin, add the ground rice, the rind of one lemon, and the juice of half, sweeten 
to taste, and then stir in 2 ozs. of butter melted. Mix all these ingredients well 
together, and then turn into the prepared pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty to thirty minutes. Take up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,272. APPLE AND RICE MERINGUE. 

1 lb. apples. I 1 pint milk. I 1 lemon. 3 ozs. sugar. 

4 ozs. rice. | 2 cloves. | 3 whites of eggs. 1 gill water. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them in quarters. Put the sugar and water into 
a stewpan, bring to the boil ; then put in the apples, add two cloves, put on the 
lid, and put the pan in the oven and cook slowly until the apples are tender. When 
done, take up the apples, reserve the syrup. Put the milk into a saucepan ith 
the rind of the lemon, bring to the boil, then sprinkle in the rice, simmer until the 
rice has absorbed the milk and is quite tender. The rice must be kept stirred as 
soon as it begins to thicken. Remove the lemon-rind, turn the rice on to a hot 
dish, shape it into a border round the dish, arrange the apples in the centre of the 
border of the rice, pour the apple syrup over them. Whip the three whites of eggs 
very stiffly, add a little sugar to them, and place this over the apples, piling it up 
in the shape of a pyramid. Sprinkle with sugar, and put in a mild oven to set the 
eggs. When done, remove from the oven, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required. 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



1 pint milk. 
3 ozs. florador. 



2,273. APPLE AND FLORADOR PUDDING. 

IJ lbs. apples. 2 ozs. sugar. \\ gills water. 1 tablespoonful apricot 



1 lemon. 



2 eggs. 



jam. 



pastry. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them in pieces, and put them into a stewpan with 
the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon and the water. Put the pan on the fire, and 
cook until the apples are tender. Put the milk into a saucepan with the remainder 
of the lemon-rind and the sugar, bring to the boil slowly, then remove the lemon- 
rind, and sprinkle in the florador. Cook over the fire for ten minutes, stirring well 
all the time ; then take out the lemon-rind, let the mixture cool a little, beat in 
one at a time the two yolks of eggs. Mix the apricot jam with the apples, stir 
them well together. Roll out some pastry, either short or puff, Une the sides of a 
pie-dish with it, decorate the rim with stars of pastry or mark it with a fork. Put 
the apples at the bottom of the dish, arrange the florador in a layer over them. 
Whisk the two whites of eggs very stiffly, mix with it about 1 oz. of sugar, over 





c 
o 
c 



I/) 

o 
o 

< 

■t; 

XI 

e 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



663 



the top of the pudding with this meringue, put it into a moderate oven, and bake 
for about twenty minutes. When done, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,274. POMMES MERINGUEES (MERINGUED APPLES). 



6 cooking apples. 
3 ozs. loaf sugar. 



1 gill water, 
lemon-rind. 



2 whites 
eggs. 



apricot jam. 
castor sugar. 



Put the loaf sugar and the water into a stewpan, simmer together until a syrup 
is formed. Peel and core the apples carefully, so as not to break them, put them 
in the syrup, cover with a buttered paper and the lid of the stewpan, place in the 
oven, and cook until the apples are tender. Butter a baking-tin, place the apples 
on it, fill the centres with apricot jam. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and add to them 1 oz. of castor sugar. Cover the apples completely with the 
meringue, put them into the oven, and bake for about ten minutes. When ready, 
dish them, and send to table hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 167. — Abricots ad Riz. 



ABRICOTS (APRICOTS) 

2,275. ABRICOTS AU RIZ (APRICOTS WITH RICE). 



12 preserved half -apricots. 
3 ozs. rice. 



angelica, 
apricot syrup. 



1 lemon. I 2 ozs. sugar. 

1 pint milk. I cherries. 

Put the milk, grated lemon-rind, and the sugar into a saucepan, place on the 
fire, and as soon as the milk boils sprinkle in the rice, and simmer until the rice is 
tender and the milk has been absorbed. Keep stirred constantly while cooking to 
prevent burning. Turn into a flat, round, greased cake-tin, press it down well, 
then turn it out on to a hot dish. Heat the apricots in syrup (a little wine or hqueur 
can be added if hked), arrange the apricots on the rice, decorate with glace cherries 
and angehca. Put the juice from the apricots into a stewpan, add one tablespoonful 
of sugar and the juice of the lemon, boil together until it becomes a syrup. Pour 
this all over the apricots and rice and round the dish, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 



664 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,276. ABRICOTS A LA CONDE. 



6 half-apricots. 

rice croquettes (No. 2,353). 



6 rounds genoise 
cake. 



apricot sauce (No. 148). 
glace cherries. 



Cut a genoise cake in rounds, about h inch thick, a little larger than the apricots, 
pour over each piece of cake a few drops of wine or liqueur. On these set a half 
apricot cooked in syrup ; on the top of each apricot place a glace cherry. Arrange 




Fig. 1G8. — Abricots a la Conde. 




Fig. 169. — Abricots a la Sultane. 



the apricots in a circle on a hot dish, place some rice croquettes made in the shape 
of half apricots in the centre, and serve with an apricot sauce separately. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 665 



2,277. ABRICOTS A LA SULTANE. 



1 geiioise cako. 3 whites of eggs. 



preserved apricots. 



4 OZ8. rice. 
4 ozs. sugar. 1 pint milk 



lemon-rind, 
vanilla. 



cherries, 
angelica. 



Make a genoise cake, butter a border-mould, put in the mixture, and bake. 
When cooked, turn it out, and let cool. Boil the milk with 2 ozs. of sugar and the 
lemon-rind ; when boihng, sprinkle in the rice, and cook until it is tender and the 
milk is absorbed. Whip the whites of eggs very stiffly, mix with them 2 ozs. of 
sugar. Spread this over the genoise cake, dust with sugar, and put into the oven 
to brown and set. Put on a hot dish when ready, fill the centre with the prepared 
rice, piling it up in the shape of a pyi'amid. Have ready some half-apricots warmed 
up in their own syrup, flavoured with vanilla, put these apricots all over the pyramid 
of rice. Decorate with glace cherries and angelica, pour some apricot syrup round, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ORANGES 

2,278. ORANGE PUDDING. 

2 oranges. 6 oz. puff-paste (No. 1 gill milk. 

2,184). 3 eggs. 



2 ozs. stale cake or bread- 
crumbs. 



2 ozs. castor sugar. 

Rub the stale sponge-cake through a sieve, put the crumbs thus made into a 
basin, add the sugar and the grated rinds of the oranges, mix together. Beat the 
eggs in a basin, add the milk to them, pour this over the dry ingredients in the 
basin, squeeze the juice of the oranges, and add it. Roll out the pastry, cut it in 
strips, and line a pie-dish with it. With a star cutter cut out from the remainder 
of the pastry a number of patterns, fix these round the edge of the dish overlapping 
each other, pour in the prepared mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
thirty minutes. When done, remove from the oven, dredge the top with castor 
sugar, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to June. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,279. ORANGE AND RICE MERINGUE. 
6 ozs. rice. | 1 J pints milk. | 1 lemon. | 6 ozs. loaf sugar. | 6 oranges. | 3 eggs. 

Put the milk into a saucepan with the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon and 
2 ozs. of loaf sugar, bring to the boil, sprinkle in the rice, and cook until the rice 
is tender. As soon as it begins to thicken, the rice must be constantly stirred to 
prevent burning. When the rice is done, let it cool, remove the lemon-rind, and 
beat in the yolks of the eggs. Peel the oranges very thinly, put into a stewpan 
4 ozs. of loaf sugar and 1 gill of water, cook over the fire until it becomes a thick 
syrup ; then put in the orange-peel, let it stand by the side of the fire for a few 
minutes, but do not let it boil. Take all the white pith away from the oranges, 
cut them in halves, and take out the pips. Arrange the rice on a fireproof dish in 
a flat bed, place the halves of oranges on this, and strain the syrup over them. 
Beat the wliites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and spread it over the oranges ; dredge 
thickly with castor sugar. Put the dish in a slow oven, and bake for about twenty 
minutes. This pudding should be sent to table in the dish it was baked in. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to June. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



666 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,280. ORANGE AND RATAFIA PUDDING. 



6 oranges. 
1 lemon. 



castor sugar. 
2 ozs. ratafias. 



sponge 
cake. 



3 gills milk. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2 eggs. 
vanilla. 



Peel the oranges and lemon very thinly, take away all the white pith from the 
oranges, cut them in slices, remove the pips and skin, leaving only the pulp of the 
oranges. Put this into a basin, cover it with castor sugar, and let stand for some 
time ; then with a fork mash the pulp small. Chop very finely tbe rind of one 
orange and half of the lemon, add to the orange-pulp and the juice of the lemon. 
Cut some stale sponge-cake into shces, butter a pie-dish, melt the butter in a stew- 
pan, arrange a layer of sponge-cake slices in the pie-dish, pour over them some 
melted butter ; then put a layer of the orange-pulp, then another layer of cake, 
then butter, and again pulp. Continue in this way until the dish is filled to two- 
thirds of its height. Beat the yolks of eggs in a basin, add the milk, sweeten to 
taste, flavour with' vanilla. Make a custard with this over the fire. When ready, 
pour it over the ingredients in the pie-dish, cover the top of the pudding all over 
with ratafias, put the pudding into a cool oven to bake for twenty to thirty minutes. 
Wliisk the whites of the eggs, add a little sugar to them, cover the top of the 
pudding with it, and return to the oven to set the meringue. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 170. — Bananes a la Conde, 



BANANES (BANANAS) 

2,281. BANANES A LA CONDE. 



6 ozs. rice. 
1^ pints milk. 



4 bananas, 
glace cherries. 



2 ozs. sugar. 
rind of 1 lemon. 



vanilla, i ^ pint syrup. 

angelica. | 6 or 8 rice croquettes (No. 2,353). 



Peel the lemon very thinly, put it into a stewpan with the milk and the sugar 
As soon as the milk comes to the boil sprinkle in the rice, cook over the fire until 
the rice is tender and the milk has been absorbed, stirring constantly. Remove 
the lemon-rind, and turn the mixture into a well-buttered border-mould. Keep 
hot until required. Heat the S3rrup, flavour it with vanilla, and as soon as it is 
hot peel the bananas, sht them in halves lengthways, and then each half again in 
ha.lf crossways. Put these pieces into the sjnrup, and stew them gently for a few 
minutes, taking care not to break the frait. Make some rice croquettes, shape 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 



667 



them into balls. When ready to serve the sweet, turn out the border of rice on to 
a hot dish, arrange the bananas round the border overlapping each other, pour 
some of the syrup over, arrange the rice croquettes in a pyramid in the centre, 
decorate with cherries and angelica, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,282. BANANES SUR CROOtES. 

3 bananas. 1^ gills syrup. angelica. pistachio- 

genoise cake. glace cherries. ^ gill sherry. nuts. 

Cut the genoise cake into pieces, 1 inch thick, and, about 3 inches in length. 
Heat the syrup, add the wine to it, and pour half of it over the pieces of cake. 
Keep hot. Peel the bananas, sHt them in halves, and cut them the same length 
as the croutes. Put these into a stewpan with the remainder of the syrup, and 
cook for a few minutes, taking care not to let the fruit get too soft. Arrange the 
cake croutes on a hot dish in the form of a star, place a banana on each croute, 
pour the syrup over. Blanche, peel, and chop a few pistachio-nuts, sprinkle these 
on the bananas, arrange some glace cherries that have been heated in syrup in the 
centre of the dish, garnish with a few leaves of angelica, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 171. — Bananes sur Croutes. 



2,283. POUDING DE BANANES (BANANA PUDDING). 



2 eggs. 

3 ozs. butter. 



3 ozs. sugar. 
3 ozs. flour. 



sweet sauce (No. 
165). 



2 bananas, 
baking-powder. 

Oream the butter and sugar together in a basin until soft, then add the eggs 
\ one at a time. Beat the mixture thoroughly. Sieve the flour and the baking- 
powder, stir into the butter and eggs. Peel the bananas, cut them in thin sUces, 
and mix into the preparation. Stir lightly until it is all thoroughly mixed. Butter 
some small dariole-moulds or other tins, fill them haK full, cover with a buttered 
paper, place in a steamer, and steam for twenty minutes, or they can be baked in a 
moderate oven for the same length of time. When done, turn out on to a hot dish, 
pour sweet sauce round, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 35 to 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



668 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,284. BANANES MERINGUEES. 

\ lb. short paste. I 3 ozs. rice. i 2 ozs. sugar. whites of 3 eggs. I angelica. 

6 bananas. I 1 pint milk. 1 1 lemon-rind. cherries. i syrup. 

KoU out the pastry, and line a flan-ring with it. Line it with paper, fill with 
raw rice, and bake. When done, carefully remove the rice and paper. Boil the 
milk with the sugar and finely-peeled lemon-rind. As soon as the milk comes to 
the boil, sprinkle in the rice, boil until tender, stir constantly to prevent it burning, 
take out the peel, and cover the bottom of the flan-ring with a thick layer. Peel 
the bananas, cut each in half, cook them for ten minutes in a syrup flavoured with 
vanilla, arrange them in the crust on the rice. Beat up the eggs to a stiff froth, 
arrange this over the bananas, sprinkle with castor sugar, and put in the oven to 
brown and set. Before sending to table, garnish with cherries and angehca. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

PECHES (PEACHES) 

2,285. POUDING AUX PECHES (PEACH PUDDING). 

1 tin preserved peaches. 2 ozs. butter. | J pint peach syrup, 

i pint milk. I 4 eggs. ! 3 ozs. flour. 

Put the milk and peach-juice into a saucepan, add the butter, and bring to the 
boil. Sieve the flour, and as soon as the milk and butter come to the boil, stir in 
the flour very quickly. Mix vigorously until the mixture is smooth, and leaves 
the sides of the pan. Take the pan off the fire, and let the mixture cool a httle ; 
then add the sugar, beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time. Whisk the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir hghtly into the mixture. Butter a souffle- 
mould, arrange a layer of peaches neatly on the bottom of the mould, then put a 
layer of the mixture. Cover again with some more peaches, and continue in this 
way until the mould is three parts full. The last layer should be the mixture. 
Steam in the oven for about forty-five minutes to one hour. When done, turn out, 
and serve with lemon sauce. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 to 1^ hours. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 oz. sugar. 

lemon sauce (No. 164). 



6 preserved peaches 
2 French rolls. 



2,286. CROOTONS DE PECHES. 

2 ozs. black-currant jelly, 
sugar. 



1 glass white wine. 

2 ozs. butter. 



Cut the rolls into six sHces about i inch thick. Melt the butter in a frying-pan. 
As soon as it is hot, put in the shces of bread, and fry them a golden brown. When 
done, take them up, and drain on paper. Keep hot in a cool oven. Put six half- 
peaches into a stewpan with their syrup, add a httle sugar and the glass of wine, 
bring to the boil, and simmer gently for two or three minutes. They must be 
kept firm. Place half a peach on each shce of fried bread, the hollow side upper- 
most, place in each a small piece of black-currant jelly, dish the croutons on a hot 
dish, dust with sugar, and put into the oven for a few minutes. Strain the syrup 
round the dish, and send to table with cream. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,287. CROUSTADE DE PfiCHES. 

lb. short paste (No. I frangipane cream (No. 2,171). 2 ozs. macaroons. 

2,183). I preserved peaches. butter. 

Roll out the pastry, line a flan-ring with it, line it with paper, flll with raw rice, 
and bake in a moderate oven without letting the pastry colour. When done, let 



6 half-peaches. 
1 genoise cake. 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 669 

it cool a little, then turn out the rice, and remove the paper. Turn the preserved 
peaches with their syrup into a stewpan, bring to the boil, and stew gently for two 
or three minutes. Add a few drops of lemon-juice or vanilla and sugar to taste. 
Drain the peaches when done. Prepare the frangipane cream, place a layer of 
this at the bottom of the baked crust, over this arrange a layer of half -peaches. 
Crush the macaroons, and put a layer over the peaches. Cover the top with another 
layer of the cream, sprinkle over the remainder of the macaroons, melt some butter, 
and pour it over the top. Put the croustade into the oven or under a salamander to 
glaze the top. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,288. PECHES A LA CUSSY. 

apricot jam. meringue. 

^ glass white wine. apricot sauce (No. 148). 

Cut the cake into rounds the size of a half-peach, and J inch thick. Rub the 
jam through a hair sieve, put it into a small stewpan, add the wine to it, and stir 
over the fire until hot. Spread this over the rounds of cake, place a half-peach on 
«ach, cover with meringue, and put in a moderate oven to set the meringue. Dish 
up on a hot dish, and serve the sauce with it separately. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

POIRES (PEARS) 

2,289. COMPOTE DE POIRES (COMPOTE OF PEARS). 
6 stewing pears. | 1| pints water. | 1 lemon. | 1 glass port wine. | 8 ozs. sugar. 
Cut the pears in halves, take out the cores, peel them, put them into a stewpan, 
■cover with the water, add the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon and the sugar. Stew 
gently until the pears are tender, then add the wine, and cook a little longer. Lift 
out the pears, place them on a dish, reduce the syrup, and pour it over the pears. 
Serve either hot or cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, August to December. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,290. POIRES AU RIZ (PEARS WITH RICE). 



6 stewing pears, 
syrup. 

vanilla. 



1 glass port I 1 pint milk, 
wine. ^ gill cream. 

3 ozs. rice. lemon-rind. 



2 egg-yolka. 
2 ozs. sugar. 
1 oz. butter. 



Cut the pears in halves, remove the cores, and peel them thinly. Put the pears 
into a stewpan, cover with syrup, add some vanilla essence and the wine, cook 
until the pears are tender. Put the milk into a stcAvpan with the thinly-peeled 
rind of a lemon, add the butter, and bring to the boil. Sprinkle in the rice, and 
•cook until tender. When done, cool a httle, mix in the two yolks of eggs, the 
cream, and the sugar. IVIix thoroughly together over the fire for ten minutes 
longer. Dress the rice on a hot dish, pile it up in the centre, arrange the pears 
round, reduce the syrup, and pour it round the dish. If there is too much, the 
remainder can be sent up separately to table with the pears. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 J hours. Seasonable, August to December., 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,291. POIRES MERINGUEES. 

6 stowing pears. 1 glass port wine. I short pastry (No. I 1 lemon. 

IJ pints water. 



cherries. 

angelica. 



2 whites of eggs. | 2,183). I 8 ozs. sugar. 

Cut the pears in halves, put them into a stewpan with the water, sugar, the 
thinly-peeled rind of the lemon, and the wine. Stew gently until the pears are 



670 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

tender. Roll out some pastry, line a flan-ring with it, line with paper, fill with 
raw rice, and bake. When done, take out the rice and paper. Take up the pears 
when done, drain them well, arrange them in a circle in the flan-crust. Whip the 
whites of the eggs, mix in a little sugar, and cover the pears with it. Put in the 
oven to set the meringue. When done, put it on a hot dish, and garnish with 
cherries and leaves of angelica. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, August to Decem- 
ber. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

ANANAS (PINEAPPLE) 

2,292. ANANAS A LA CREOLE (PINEAPPLE, CREOLE STYLE). 

1 pineapple. | 4 ozs. rice. | 1 pint milk. | vanilla. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 6 bananas. | syrup. 

Put the milk into a stewpan with a piece of vanilla-pod and the sugar, bring to 
the boil, sprinkle in the rice, and cook until the rice is tender and has absorbed the 
milk. Take out the vanilla-pod, and let the rice cool. Cut a pineapple in half 
lengthways, and each half into thin slices. Cook these in syrup flavoured with 
liqueur or wine (or a preserved pineapple can be used). Line a dome-mould with 
the pineapple sHces, put over the pineapple a layer of the prepared rice, leaving a 
space in the centre, fill the space with dice of pineapple and bananas cooked in 
syrup. Cover over the top with some of the rice, and put the mould in a steamer 
with a paper over to get hot through. Cook three bananas in syrup, cut them in 
halves, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, decorate the top with pieces of angelica, 
and arrange the bananas round the base of the pudding. Serve hot. 

Average cost, with preserved pineapple. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 
Seasonable always. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,293. PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 



8 ozs. flour. I 4 ozs. beef-suet. 
\ gill cream. | pineapple. 



1 lemon. 

salt. 



1 gill pineapple syrup. 1 tablespoonful 



1 tablespoonful brandy. 



sherry. 



Chop the suet finely, put the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt and the suet, 
rub it in lightly with. the fingers, mix with sufficient water to make a stiff paste. 
Turn it out on to a floured board, roll it out rather thick. Chop some pineapple 
into small dice, mix with it one tablespoonful cream and the grated rind of a lemon, 
mix well together, and spread the preparation over the paste. Wet round the 
edge of the paste with a little water, and roll up. Close the ends of the roll by 
pressing the edges together. Wring a pudding-cloth out of hot water, dust it over 
with flour, put the roll in this, tie at each end securely, and put into a stewpan of 
boiUng water and boil for two hours. Make a sauce by putting the pineapple 
syrup into a stewpan, add the remainder of the cream, the brandy, sherry, and a 
squeeze of lemon-juice. INIix well, and let it get quite hot. Turn the pudding out 
of the cloth on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Gd. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

SOUFFLES 

2,294. SOUFFLE A LA VANILLE (VANILLA SOUFFLfi). 

4 whites of eggs. 



1 oz. butter. 

1 oz. castor sugar 



1 oz. flour. 



jam sauce (No. 163). 



vanilla essence. 
1 gill milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 

Butter a souffle-tin, put a band of buttered paper round the outside of the tin, 
so that it comes 2 inches above it, tie it round with string. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil over the fire until a thick paste is 
formed. Stir it well all the time it is cooking. Take it ofl the fire, and let it cool 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



671 



a little. Stir in the castor sugar and sufficient vanilla essence to flavour. Beat in 
the eggs one at a time. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them 
lightly and quickly into the mixture. Pour it into the prepared mould, which 
should be three parts filled with the preparation, steam for thirty to forty minutes. 
When done, turn it out on to a hot dish, and pour jam or any suitable sauce round 
it, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,295. POUDING SOUFFLE A LA ROYALE (PUDDING ROYAL). 

For Cake. 

2 eggs. I their weight in butter, sugar, and flour. 

For Souffle. 

vanilla essence. 
3 eggs. 

First prepare the cake in the following way : Put the butter and sugar into a 
basin, work them together until creamy, then stir in the eggs one at a time. Pass 



1 giU milk. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. flour. 
1 oz. sugar. 



raspberry jam. 



sabavon sauce 
(No. 173). 




Fig. 172. — Podding a la Royale. 



the flour through a sieve, add a Httle baking-powder to it, and stir hghtly to the 
butter and eggs. Mix quickly, spread the mixture on a flat, well-greased baking- 
sheet, and bake in a hot oven. Heat the jam in a stewpan, and as soon as the cake 
is done turn it on to a sugar-dredged piece of paper. Spread the jam quickly all 
over it, roll up carefully, and place on a sieve to cool. When cold, cut the Swiss 
roll in thin slices, butter a large plain mould, line the bottom and sides with the 
slices. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil 
antil a smooth paste is formed and it leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. Take 
the pan off the fire, stir in the sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. When 
sufficiently cool, beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time. Whisk the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them hghtly into the mixture. Turn it into the pre- 
pared mould, place in a steamer, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for thirty 
to forty minutes. When done, turn out on to a hot dish, pour some sauce round 
it, and send up a tureen of the same to serve with it. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour after the roll is made. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

PT. IX. 43 



672 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,296. SOUFFLE A LA LUCULLUS. 

1 savarin cake baked in a 1 gill syrup. 1 oz. butter. I 1 gill milk. [ 3 

border-mould. 1 glass kirsch. 1 oz. flour. | 6 half -apricots. [ 1 oz. sugar. 

Mix the glass of kirsch or any other kind of suitable hqueur into the syrup, 
pour this over the savarin, and let it soak. Tie a band of paper round the cake to 
protect the souffle. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the flour, add the milk, 
and boil until it thickens and becomes a smooth paste and leaves the sides of the 
pan. Remove from the fire, and add the sugar ; beat in the yolks of the eggs one 
at a time. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them hghtly into the mixture. 
Stew the half-apricots in syrup flavoured with vanilla, pour half the souffle mixture 
into the centre of the savarin, then arrange on it the halved apricots. Put over 
the remainder of the mixture, and place in the oven to cook. It must do slowly 
Serve quickly. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

2,297. SOUFFLE AU CAFE AU LAIT (COFFEE SOUFFLfi). 

\\ gills of coffee with milk. 1^ ozs. butter. I 1 oz. sugar, 

custard sauce (No. 156). l| ozs. flour. | 3 eggs. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the cofiee, and stir vigorously 
over the fire until the panada leaves the sides of the saucepan. Take it off the fire, 
and mix in the sugar and the yolks of the eggs. Beat each one in well before adding 
the next. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir them lightly into the 
mixture. Have ready a well-buttered souffle or timbale mould, turn the mixture 
into it (the mould should have a buttered band of paper tied round it to prevent 
the souffle faUing over while cooking), put into a steamer, put a piece of buttered 
paper over the souffle, place on the lid of the steamer, and steam slowly for thirty 
to forty minutes. When cooked, turn out on to a hot dish, and surround with 
custard sauce. Serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. , 



2,298. SOUFFLE AU CITRON (LEMON S0UFFL£). 

1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. I 3 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. castor sugar. 

1 oz. flour. ^ lemon. | 4 whites of eggs. custard sauce (No. 156). 

Butter a timbale or souffle mould, tie a band of buttered paper round the out- 
side, coming 2 inches above the top. This prevents the pudding falling over while 
cooking. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, boil until it 
thickens and becomes a smooth paste and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Grate 
the lemon-rind, take the panada off the fire, stir in the lemon-rind and sugar, 1-et it 
cool, and then beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in Hghtly. Pour this preparation into the 
prepared mould, and steam slowly for thirty minutes. When done, turn out on to 
a hot dish and pour the sauce round. Serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,299. SOUFFLE AUX MARRONS (CHESTNUT SOUFFLfi). 



^ lb. chestnuts (peeled). 1| ozs. butter 

custard sauce (No. 156). 



3 ozs. castor sugar, 
vanilla essence. 



3 eggs. 

Slit the chestnuts, place them on a baking-sheet in the oven until the shell and 
inner skin can be removed. Put the chestnuts after peehng into a stewpan, cover 
them with water, add the sugar, and cook them until soft, then rub them through 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 673 

a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the puree of chestnuts, and stir 
over a quick fire until it becomes thick and dry. Take it off the fire, flavour with 
a few drops of vanilla essence, add the yolks of the eggs one at a time, beat well. 
Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir them hghtly to the mixture, pour this 
mixture into a well-buttered souffle or charlotte mould which has a band of buttered 
paper tied round it. Steam in a steamer for thirty to forty minutes slowly. Turn 
out when done on to a hot dish, and serve with custard sauce. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,300. SOUFFLE AUX AMANDES (ALMOND SOUFFLE). 



1 oz. almonds. 



1 oz. ground almonds. 



1 oz. butter. • | oz. flour, 
i oz. ground rice. 1^ ozs. sugar. | 3 eggs. 1 tablespoonful maraschino. 

Blanch the almonds in boiling water ; skin, wash, and dry them. Put the almonds 
into a mortar, add a few drops of water, and pound until they become a smooth 
paste ; then add sufficient water to make 1 gill of almond milk, strain through 
mushn. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, mix the ground rice with 
the almond milk, and add to the flour. Stir well until the mixture thickens and 
becomes a smooth paste, and until it can be drawn away from the sides of the 
pan with a spoon, leaving them clean. Take the pan off the fire, stir in the sugar, 
the ground almonds, and the maraschino. Beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a 
time. Whisk the whites of eggs very stiffly, and stir in hghtly to the mixture. 
Well butter a pie-dish, turn the preparation into it, place it in a baking-tin con- 
taining a httle hot water, cover the pudding with a piece of greased paper, and put 
into a moderate oven to cook for about twenty to thirty minutes. When done, 
dredge the surface of the pudding with icing-sugar, and put it under a salamander 
to brown the top. Serve at once. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,301. SOUFFLE D'ORANGES (ORANGE SOUFFLES). 

6 oranges. | 2 ozs. butter. | IJ ozs. flour. | 1 glass marsala. | 1^ ozs. sugar. | 3 eggs. 

Cut a circular sHce off the top of each orange, scoop out the pulp carefully, so 
a,s not to break the skins, rub the pulp through a fine sieve, add the wine to it. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir in the orange-pulp and wine, boil 
until thick ; then remove from the fire, and let the mixture cool. Add the sugar and 
the three yolks one at a time. Whisk the whites very stiffly, and stir them hghtly 
into the mixture. Fill the orange-skins with this preparation, set them on a baking- 
sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Serve quickly. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,302. FLORADOR SOUFFLE. 

1 pint milk. | 3 ozs. florador (medium grain). I 3 yolks of eggs. 
1 lemon. 2 ozs. castor sugar. I 4 whites of eggs. 

Butter a plain charlotte-mould, tie a band of buttered paper round the outside, 
so that it comes 2 inches above the tin. Peel the lemon very thinly, put it into a 
Bte%vpan with the milk, bring to the boil slowly ; then sprinMe in the florador, stir 
until it thickens, then remove the lemon-rind, take the pan off the fire, stir in the 
sugar, and let cool a httle, then beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time. W^hisk 
the whites of eggs very stiffly, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Pour into 
the prepared mould, and steam for about twenty minutes. Serve with a suitable 
sweet sauce. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

43—2 



674 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,303. SOUFFLE AU THE (TEA SOUFFLE). 

1 gill tea. I 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. pistachio- : 3 yolks of eggs. 

1 oz. butter. I 1 oz. sugar. [ nuts. I 4 whites of eggs. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the tea, and boil until thick 
and the mixture becomes a smooth paste ; then remove from the fire, stir in the 
sugar, add the eggs one at a time, beat thoroughly. Blanch the pistachios, and 
chop them finely. Stir them into the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs very 
stiffly, mix them in lightly. Have ready a well-buttered souffle or charlotte mould, 
with a band of buttered paper tied round it to protect the souffle as it rises. Pour 
the mixture into the prepared mould, cover with a buttered paper, put it into a 
steamer, and steam for twenty to thirty minutes. When done, turn out, and serve 
with a suitable sweet sauce. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,304. POUDING SOUFFLE AU CHOCOLAT (CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE). 

2 ozs. butter. I 2 ozs. Mexican j custard sauce (No. 156). j 3 yolks of eggs. I vanilla. 
2 ozs. flour. I chocolate. ^ pint milk. | 4 whites of eggs. I sugar. 

Chop the chocolate into small pieces, put it into a small stewpan with \ gill of 
milk, put over a slow fire, and stir until it melts. Let it come to the boil. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add l\ gills of milk, and boil until it 
thickens and a smooth paste is formed which leaves the sides of the pan. Take 
off the fire, and mix in the melted chocolate, vanilla, and sugar to taste. When 
cool enough, add the yolks of the eggs one at a time, and beat well. Whisk the 
whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir them in hghtly to the mixture. Have ready 
a well-greased souffle-tin, tie a piece of buttered paper round to protect the pudding 
as it rises, turn the souffle into this, put a piece of buttered paper over the top, and 
steam for about thirty minutes, or it can be baked in a moderate oven. Turn out 
on to a hot dish, and pour custard sauce round. Serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,305. SOUFFLE AUX PRUNES (PRUNE SOUFFLE). 



\ lb. prunes. 
1 lemon. 



1 oz. flour. 



3 ozs. sugar. 4 whites of 

3 yolks of eggs. I eggs. ^ gill wine. 

Soak the prunes in cold water for an hour. Put them into a stewpan, cover 
with cold water, add 1 oz. of sugar, wine, and lemon-rind to them, and cook gently 
over the fire until soft. Cream the yolks of the eggs with the remaining 2 ozs. of 
sugar, stir in the flour. Cut the prunes into small pieces, removing the stones in 
the process. Stir the prunes into the egg mixture, also the juice of the lemon. 
Whisk two whites of eggs very stiffly, stir these hghtly into the pudding. Butter a 
pie-dish well, turn in the souffle, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty 
minutes. When done, whisk up the remaining two whites of eggs very stiffly, and 
pile it on the top of the pudding. Sprinkle with castor sugar, and put in the oven 
} again for a minute or two to set the eggs and hghtly brown them. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at aU times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,306. POUDING SOUFFLE A LA PARMENTIER (POTATO SOUFFLE). 



\ lb. potato 2 ozs. butter. 1^ gills milk 



puree. 



2 ozs. sugar. 



3 yolks of eggs. 

4 whites of eggs. 



1 lemon. 

Butter a china souffle-dish, fasten a band of buttered paper round the outside 
of the mould, coming 2 inches above it to prevent the mixture from falling over 
Bake four or five potatoes, sufficient to obtain the \ lb. of puree, scoop out the 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 675 

pulp when cooked, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
put in the potato, sugar, and lemon-rind, the latter finely chopped. Mix all well 
together, then add the milk. Make thoroughly hot, take the pan off the fire, and 
beat well. Add the yolks of the eggs one at a time. Whisk the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, mix lightly into the preparation, turn it into the prepared mould, 
and bake in a moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes. Serve as soon as ready 
in the dish that it was baked in. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,307. POUDING SOUFFLE A L'INDIENNE. 

2 ozs. butter, i ^ pint milk. 4 eggs. ^ oz. ground ginger. 

2 ozs. flour. I 2 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. preserved ginger, custard sauce flavoured with ginger. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil until a 
smooth paste is formed and it leaves the sides of the pan. Take it off the fire, let 
it cool for a few minutes. Stir in the sugar and ground ginger, cut the preserved 
ginger into dice, and add to the mixture. When cool enough, beat in the yolks of 
the eggs one at a time ; whisk the whites of eggs very stiffly, and stir them in quickly 
and lightly. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered charlotte-tin, with a band of 
oiled paper tied round it, and steam for about forty-five minutes in a steamer 
When cooked, turn out on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce round. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,308. SOUFFLE A L' ANANAS (PINEAPPLE S0UFFL£). 

2 ozs. butter. 1 gill milk. I 3 yolks of eggs. I 2 ozs. pineapple. 

IJ ozs. flour. 1 oz. castor sugar. | 4 whites of eggs. \ pineapple sauce. 

Cut the pineapple into dice. Butter a plain charlotte-mould, tie a band of 
greased paper round the outside of the mould, so that it comes 2 inches above it. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil until the 
mixture becomes a smooth paste. It must be stirred vigorously while cooking. 
As soon as the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan clean, take it off the fire, 
and let it cool a httle. Stir in the sugar and the dice of pineapple. Add the yolks 
one at a time, beat well. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly, stir them into 
the souffle Hghtly. Pour the mixture into the prepared mould, and steam for 
about forty-five minutes. Turn out when done, and pour the following sauce 
round : Take 1 gill of the pineapple syrup, add to it 1 oz. of loaf sugar and a glass 
of white wine, simmer for a fev/ minutes, and then pour round the pudding. 

Average cost, is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
4 or 5 persons. 

2,309. MOUSSELINE PUDDING. 

2 ozs. butter. I 5 yolks of eggs. vanilla. 

2 ozs. castor sugar. | 3 whites of eggs. sabayon sauce (No. 173). 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and work together until they become 
soft ; then add the yolks of the eggs one at a time, stirring well. Put this mixture 
into a stewpan, place the pan on a slow fire, and stir vigorously until it coats the 
spoon when withdrawn. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
lightly into the mixture. Butter a border-mould, fill it half full with the mixture, 
place in a steamer, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for thirty minutes. 
When cooked, allow the pudding to stand for a few minutes before turning it out 
of the mould. Serve with it a sabayon sauce. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable aU the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



676 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,310. POUDING SOUFFLE A LA RHINE. 

4 ozs. butter, j 3 eggs. i vanilla flavouring. genoise cake or macaroons. 

4 ozs. sugar. | 1 giU cream. | 1 glass sherry. apricot sauce (No. 148). 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, cream them together until soft, then add 
the yolks of the eggs one at a time. Beat well, then add the cream slightly whipped. 
Flavour with vanilla, stir in the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs. Cut the genoise 
cake into squares, put them into a basin, and pour over the wine, so that they are 
saturated with it. Butter a charlotte or souffle mould, sprinkle it all over with 
crushed macaroons, fill it with alternate layers of the mixture and the soaked cake. 
Cover the pudding with a buttered paper, put it in a baking-sheet containing a 
little water, and place in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. When done, let it 
set for a few minutes before turning it out. Pour the sauce over, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,311. POUDING SOUFFLfi A LA PAYSANNE. 

2 ozs. butter. I 2 ozs. flour. 

^ pint milk. I 2^ ozs. cream cheese. 



J gill cream. vanilla flavouring. 

5 eggs. apricot sauce (No. 148). 



Put the butter and milk into a stewpan, sieve the flour, and as soon as the 
butter and milk come to the boil put in the flour and stir vigorously until the 
paste thickens and leaves the sides of the pan. Take the pan off the fire, and let 
the mixture cool for ten minutes, then add the cream. Pass the cream-cheese 
through a fine sieve, and add. Beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, flavour 
with vanilla. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir in hghtly. Butter a mould, 
pour the mixture into it, and steam in a cool oven for one hour. Unmould, and 
serve with the sauce. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,312. S0UFFL£ D'ABRICOTS (APRICOT SOUFFLE). 



6 apricots (preserved). ^ gill milk. 1 oz. butter. 

^ gill apricot syrup. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. sugar. 



3 eggs. 

apricot sauce (No. 148). 



Butter a souffle or charlotte mould, tie a piece of buttered paper round the 
outside, so that it comes 2 inches above the top of the mould. Melt the butter in 
a stewpan, put in the flour, add the milk and apricot syrup, and stir over the fire 
until the mixture thickens and leaves the sides of the pan. Take it off the fire, 
stir in the sugar, and as soon as the panada is cool enough, beat in the yolks of the 
eggs one at a time. Put the three whites of eggs in a basin, add a pinch of salt to 
them, and whisk to a stiff froth. Stir this hghtly into the souffle mixture. Cut 
the apricots into shces or pieces. Put a layer of the souffle mixture into the pre- 
pared mould, upon this place a layer of the apricots, then some more of the mixture. 
Continue in this way until the souffle preparation and the apricots are used up. 
The last layer should be the souffle mixture. Cover over the top with a buttered 
paper, put the mould into a steamer, and steam slowly for thirty minutes. Turn 
out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,313. SOUFFLE DE POMMES (APPLE SOUFFLE). 



\ lb. cooking 



1 lemon. 



apples. 2 ozs. sugar. 



3 yolks of eggs. 

4 whites of eggs. 



2 ozs. butter, 
icing sugar. 

Peel and core the apples, chop them finely, or pass them through a mincing- 
machine. Put the butter into a basin, add the sugar to it, and work them together 
until they are creamy ; then add the yolks of the eggs one at a time, beat the mix- 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 677 

ture well, add the finely grated rind of the lemon and the chopped apples ; mix 
thoroughly. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir these hghtly into the 
mixture. Well butter a souffle-mould, tie a band of buttered paper round the 
outside of it, coming 2 inches above the top of the tin ; put in the souffle mixture, 
and hake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When done, take it out 
of the oven, dredge the top of the souffle with icing sugar, and serve as soon as 
possible. This kind of pudding must not be allowed to wait before serving, as it 
begins to go down as soon as it is removed from the oven. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to May 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



1| pints milk. 2 ozs. sugar. | 2 eggs. 

4^ ozs. rice. pinch of salt. I peaches. 



RIZ (RICE) AND OTHER PASTES 

2,314. RIZ A LA CONDE. 

vanilla or cherries, 
lemon. angelica. 

Put the milk into a stewpan with the rind of a lemon or a piece of vanilla-pod ; 
when boihng, sprinkle in the rice, boil until the rice is tender and has absorbed the 
milk. The rice must be stirred constantly while cooking to prevent it burning. 
When the rice is cooked, take out the lemon-rind or vanilla-pod, stir in the sugar 
and a pinch of salt, add the eggs, and stir over the fire again for two minutes to 
cook the eggs. Turn the rice on to a hot dish, pile it up high in the centre in the 
form of a pjrramid. Heat up some preserved peaches in their own syrup, place 
these round the rice, decorate with pieces of angelica cut in diamond shapes, and 
glace cherries. Reduce the syrup of the peaches, pour it round the dish, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,315. POUDING DE RIZ MERINGUE (RICE PUDDING WITH MERINGUE). 
3 ozs. rice. | 1 pint milk. | 2 eggs. | rind of lemon. | jam. | sugar. 

Put the milk into a stewpan with the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon. As soon 
as it boils, sprinkle in the rice, and simmer until the rice is tender and has absorbed 
tlie milk. Remove the lemon-rind, and let the rice cool a little, then stir in quickly 
the two yolks of eggs. Pour this preparation into a greased pie-dish, put a thick 
layer of any kind of jam over the top, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and pile them on the top of the pudding. Dust over with sugar, and put it in the 
oven to get hot through and to crisp and colour the eggs. It will take about fifteen 
minutes to bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 6d. or 7d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,316. CUP PUDDINGS. 



3 ozs. rice. 
1 lemon. 



IJ ozs. beef-suet. 
1 pint of milk. 



wine sauce (No. 
154). 



2 eggs. 

1 oz. sugar. 



Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and, when boiling, sprinkle in the rice. 
Stir over the fire until the milk is absorbed and the rice tender. Grate the rind 
of the lemon into it, chop the suet very finely, and add also. Beat the eggs in a 
basin, stir them thoroughly into the rice mixture. Butter some small dariole- 
moulds, fill them with the pudding, and put into a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes. When firm, turn them out on to a hot dish, and pour wine sauce round 
them. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



678 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,317. RICE BALLS A L'lTALIENNE. 

4 ozs. rice. | 1 pint milk. | 1 oz. sugar. | lemon-rind. | jam. | 1 egg. I breadcrumbs. 
Put the milk into a stewpan, add the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon. As soon 
as it comes to the boil, sprinkle in the rice, and cook until the rice is tender and has 
absorbed the milk. It must be kept well stirred to prevent burning. When done, 
stir in the sugar, turn on to a plate, and let the mixture cool. Divide the rice into 
equal portions, flatten out each piece, place in the centre a little jam, roll up into 
a cork shape or into balls, so as to enclose the jam. When all the portions are 
made up, beat up an egg on a plate, dip each ball into the egg, then toss in bread- 
crumbs, roll them with the hand, so as to shape them and to press on the crumbs. 
Fry in very hot fat a golden brown, serve hot. A suitable sauce or fruit syrup can 
be served with them. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 

for 8 or 10 balls. 

2,318. RICE BARS. 

4 ozs. rice. | 1 pint milk. | jam. | lemon -rind or vanilla. | 1 egg. | breadcrambs. 

Put the milk and thinly-peeled lemon or vanilla-pod into a stewpan, bring to 
the boil, and then sprinkle in the rice. Cook until the rice is tender and has absorbed 
the milk ; stir well during the process of cooking. Grease a flat tin or dish, spread 
the rice on it about I inch thick, let it get cold ; then cut it out in strips 3 inches in 
length and 1 inch in breadth, spread one bar with any kind of jam, place another 
bar on the top sandwich fashion. Continue in this way until all the bars are used , 
up, then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in very hot fat a golden brown. Dish 
up on a hot dish in lattice style, two bars one way, the next two across the first, 
and so on until they are all dished up. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 8 or 10 bars. 

2,319. BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

3 tablespoonfuls rice. | l\ pints milk. | sugar to taste. | 1 oz. butter. 

Sprinkle the rice at the bottom of a pie-dish, add the sugar, pour in the milk, 
break up the butter into small pieces, and put on the milk. Place the dish in a 
slow oven to cook for two hours or longer. The longer this pudding takes to cook, 
the better it will be. When done, it should be the colour and consistency of thick 
cream. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,320. GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

3 ozs. ground rice. | 1| pints milk. | sugar to taste. | lemon. | jam. 

Boil the milk and lemon-rind, sprinkle in the ground rice, and cook over the 
fire for five minutes. Let it get cold, then mix in the sugar. Place a layer of jam 
at the bottom of a pie-dish, put the rice on the top, bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Let it colour on the top, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot or 
cold. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,321. RICE AND FRUIT PUDDING. 

J lb. rice. | 1 pint milk. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 2 eggs. | \ lb. fruit (any kind). 
Put the milk into a saucepan, bring to the boil, sprinkle in the rice, and cook 
until the rice is thick and has absorbed the milk. Stir constantly while cooking, 
add the sugar, mix well, take the pan ofE the fire, and let the rice cool a httle, then 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 679 

work in the eggs which have first been well beaten. Prepare the fruit (if rhubarb 
or apples cut it up small), mix it with the rice. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the 
mixture into it ; scald a cloth, sprinkle with flour, and tie it over the top. Put the 
pudding into a saucepan of boiUng water, and boil for one hour. When cooked, 
turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. A sweet or fruit 
sauce, if Uked, can be served with the pudding. 

Average cost, uncertain, according to the kind of fruit used. Time required, 
2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,322. MACARONI PUDDING. - 
1 quart of milk. | 3 ozs. macaroni. | 2 eggs. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 lemon. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces, put it into a pie-dish with the butter, the 
sugar, and the grated rind of one lemon. Beat the eggs in a basin, stir in the milk, 
and then pour it on to the macaroni. Put into a cool oven, and bake for about 
three hours. Care must be taken that this pudding does not bake quickly. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,323. VERMICELLI PUDDING. 

IJ pints milk. | 4 ozs. vermicelli. | 2 eggs. | 1^ ozs. sugar. | 1 lemon. 

Put the milk, sugar, and grated rind of the lemon into a saucepan ; when boihng, 
stir in the vermicelli, and cook over the fire for five or ten minutes ; then take it 
off the fire, and let it cool a little. Add the beaten eggs, and turn the mixture into 
a buttered pie-dish. Put in a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

2,324. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

3 tablespoonfuls of tapioca. | 1 oz. sugar. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 quart milk. 

Well wash the tapioca in cold water, drain it, and put it into a pie-dish. Add 
the butter in small pieces, the sugar, and the milk. Place in a moderate oven, and 
let the pudding cook gently for two hours or more. The surface of tJie pudding 
should be allowed to brown. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,325. SEMOLINA PUDDING. 
3 tablespoonfuls of semolina. | 1 oz. sugar. | 1 oz. butter. | 1^ pints of milk. ] 1 lemon. 

Put the milk, sugar, and grated lemon-rind into a saucepan, let it come to the 
boil, then sprinkle in the semoHna. Stir this over the fire until it thickens, then 
add the butter. Pour this mixture into a pie-dish, place in a moderate oven, and 
bake for twenty to thirty minutes. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,326. APPLE AND SAGO PUDDING. 
1 lb. apples. I 2 cloves. | 3 tablespoonfuls of sago. | sugar. | 1^ pints milk. | 2 eggs. | 1 lemon. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them in shoes, place in a saucepan with the cloves, 
a little water, and sugar to taste. Cook them over the fire until soft. Wash the 
sago in cold water, and leave it to soak for one hour. Put the milk into a saucepan 
with a httle sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon. When boiling, sprinkle in the 
sago, and let it cook until it becomes thick, stirring it occasionally. Take it off 
the fire, let it cool a httle, and then add the beaten eggs. Stir them in thoroughly, 
and put a layer of this mixture in a buttered pie-dish. Cover with a layer of stewed 



680 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

apples, then again with the sago. Continue in this way until the pie-dish is fuU. 
Place in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty to thirty minutes. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2\ hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,327. FLORADOR FRUIT SHAPE. 
4 ozs. florador (medium). | 1 quart fruit. | sugar. | custard. 

Wash the florador, put it into a basin, cover with water, and let it soak for 
three or four hours. Have ready prepared any kind of fruit, such as raspberries, 
currants, etc., add them to the florador, mix in sugar to taste. Put all into a 
saucepan, and stew over the fire until thick and a jelly, then pour it into a mould. 
If to be eaten hot, turn the mould out after standing for ten minutes. Serve a 
custard round it. Can be eaten either hot or cold. Jam can be used in the winter 
instead of. fruit. 

Average cost, uncertain, depending on the kind of fruit used. Time required, 
4 or 5 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



2,328. FLORADOR AND COCOANUT PUDDING. 

2 tablespoonfuls florador. 1^ pints milk. 1^ ozs. butter. 

1 tablespoonful cocoanut. 2 eggs. 3 ozs. sugar. 

Put the milk into a saucepan, place the pan on the fire, and bring the milk to 
the boil ; then sprinkle in the florador and cocoanut, stirring well. Let it boil 
until the florador has absorbed the milk, then add the butter and sugar, take the 
pan off the fire, let the mixture cool a little, then stir in the yolks of the eggs. Turn 
ihe mixture into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add about 1 oz. of sugar to them, and, 
when the pudding is cooked, put the meringue on the top. Return to the oven 
for a few minutes to set the egg. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,329. CHOCOLATE AND RICE PUDDING. 

4 ozs. rice. I I oz. chocolate. 1 oz. butter. | 2 eggs. 

IJ pints milk. | custard sauce (No. 156). I 2 ozs. sugar. | pastry. 

Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, place it on the fire, and bring it to the boil ; 
then sprinkle in the rice, cook until the rice is tender and has absorbed most of the 
milk, then add the sugar and butter. Chop the chocolate into small pieces, melt 
it in the remainder of the milk in a stewpan, mix it into the rice, add the yolks of 
the eggs ; mix all well together. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
lightly to the mixture. Roll out some pastry, Hne a pie-dish with it, ornament the 
edge with stars of pastry, pour the mixture into the prepared dish, and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Dust over the top with sugar, and 
serve hot with custard sauce. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons, 

BEIGNETS (FRITTERS) 

2,330. APPLE FRITTERS. 

6 apples. I castor sugar. 1 gill tepid water. salt. 

1 lemon. I 1 tablespoonful salad-oil. 2 whites of eggs. frying-fat. 

Russet apples are the best for this purpose. Stamp out the centre of the apples 
with a tube cutter, so as to remove the core and pips, peel and cut them in slices 
J inch thick. Put these sUces on a plate, squeeze over them the juice of the lemon. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



681 



sprinkle thickly with castor sugar, and let them stand until the batter is ready. 
Sieve the flour with a pinch of salt into a basin, add the salad oil to the tepid water, 
mix into the flour by degrees, beat well until it is a smooth batter. Whisk the 
whites of the eggs very stifily, and stir lightly into the batter. Dip the apple- 
rings into the batter, lift them out, and drop them one at a time into very hot fat. 
Drain on paper, dish up on a dish-paper, and dredge over with castor sugar. Serve 
hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 173. — Apple Fritters. 



^ pint frangipane cream (No. 2,171). 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



sugar. 
frying -batter. 



2,331. BEIGNETS D 'ANANAS (PINEAPPLE FRITTERS). 

J preserved pineapple. 
1 glass maraschino. 

Cut the pineapple into rounds ^ inch thick, cut each slice in half, put the slices 
on a plate, sprinkle some sugar over them and the maraschino, and let them remain 
for twenty minutes. Take up, then drain, dry, and coat them with the frangipane 
cream. Put these aside to get quite cold and set. Prepare some frying-batter, 
dip each shce into it, drop into very hot fat, and fry a golden brown. Drain(^,the 
fritters on paper, dish up on a nakpin or dish-paper, dredge with castor or icing sugar, 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

2,332. BEIGNETS D'ABRICOT. 

6 apricots. | ^ pint syrup. | ^ lemon. | frying-batter (No. 2,172). | frjTng-fat. | sugar. 

Select firm, ripe apricots, or the preserved ones can be used, cut them in halves, 
and take out the stones. Stew them gently in the syrup with the grated rind of 
the lemon. When they are tender, drain well, and let them cool. Have ready 
some frying-batter, dip the apricots into it, then fry in plenty of very hot fat. 
When a nice golden colour, take them up, drain on paper, dish up on a napkin or 
fancy dish-paper, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, if fresh fruit is 
used, August to September ; all the year if preserved fruit is used. Sufficient for 
6 persons. 



682 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,333. BEIGNETS DE BANANES (BANANA FRITTERS). 
3 bananas. | sugar. | frying-batter (No. 2,172). | frying-fat (No. 197). 

Select firm but ripe bananas. Prepare the frying-batter, and make the fat 
very hot. Skin the bananas, cut each in half lengthways, then each half across. 
Dip these pieces into the frying-batter, drop them into the fat, and fry a golden 
brown. Drain the fritters on paper, dish up on a napkin or dish-paper arranged 
on a hot dish, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,334. BEIGNETS D 'ORANGES (ORANGE FRITTERS). 

3 oranges. [ J pint syrup. | frying-batter (No. 2,172). | sugar. | frying-fat. 

Skin the oranges, take away all the white pith, cut the oranges in sUces, take 
out the pips. Put the shces on a plate, and pour over the syrup. Let them stand 
in this for twenty minutes, then drain them, dip in frying-batter, and drop into 
very hot fat. Fry until a golden colour. Take up, drain on paper, dish on a 
napkin or dish-paper, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, November to July. 
Sufiicient for 3 persons. 

2,335. BEIGNETS DE PAIN (BREAD FRITTERS). 



stale bread. 



cinnamon or jam. 



2 yolks of eggs. 
J pint milk. 2 ozs. sugar. frying-fat (No. 197). 

Cut the bread into slices about ^ inch thick, shape into squares about 1 \ inches. 
Beat the eggs in a basin, add the milk and half the sugar, mix well, soak the bread 
in this for about ten minutes. Have ready some very hot fat, drop the pieces of 
bread into it, and fry until a golden brown. Mix a little ground cinnamon with 
the remainder of the sugar on a piece of kitchen-paper, and as soon as the fritters 
are fried, Ifft them out of the fat, and toss them in the sugar and cinnamon. Dish 
up on a hot dish, and serve. If cinnamon is not liked, a piece of jam may be placed 
on each fritter. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,336. BEIGNETS AU MOKA (COFFEE FRITTERS). 

Vienna bread. | strong coffee. | sugar. | frying-fat (No. 197). | frying-batter (No. 2,172). 

Cut the bread into sHces \ inch thick, stamp these into rounds, ovals, or squares. 
Prepare about ^ pint of strong coffee, sweeten to taste, and pour it over the pieces 
of bread. Have ready some light frying-batter, drain the bread, which should 
have been left to soak for ten minutes, dip in the frying-batter, drop the pieces 
into hot frying-fat, and fry until a golden colour. Drain on kitchen-paper, dredge 
with icing or castor sugar, dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufii- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,337. BEIGNETS A LA POLONAISE (POLISH FRITTERS). 



6 thin pancakes, 
sugar. 



apricot marma- 
lade. 



2 ozs. crushed macaroons, 
frying-batter (No. 2,172). 



Prepare the pancakes (No. 2,173), spread one side of each with the apricot 
marmalade, over this sprinkle a layer of crushed macaroons, roll up the pancakes, 
and divide each into three. Dip these into frying-batter, and fry a golden colour 
in hot fat. Drain, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




%- 






u 
O 

U 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 683 



2,338. BEIGNETS AU RIZ (RICE FRITTERS). 

J lb. Carolina rice, i 2 ozs. sugar. I vanilla. frying-batter (No, 

" " - - 2,172). 



apricot Jam. 
icing sugar. 



i pint milk. | 1 oz. butter. | 2 yolks of eggs. 

Wash the rice well, put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to 
the boil, then strain. Put the milk on the fire, let it come to the boil, then add the 
rice ; boil quickly, stirring constantly, until the rice is tender (it should by that 
time have absorbed the milk) ; then mix in the sugar, butter, and a little vanilla. 
Let it cool, then add the yolks of the eggs, mix over the fire without breaking the 
rice-grains. Spread this mixture on a buttered dish or tin in a thin layer, and let 
it cool. Cut out rounds of the rice about 3 to 4 inches in diameter, put in the centre 
of each round a piece of stiff apricot jam, fold over the rice, and shape into balls, 
so that the jam is enclosed. Dip each ball into frying-batter, then drop them into 
very hot fat, fry a golden colour. When done, drain on paper, dredge with icing 
sugar, dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,339. CUSTARD FRITTERS. 

1 gill milk. ] grated rind of 1 lemon or 1 oz. castor sugar. 

3 eggs. I vanilla essence. frying-batter (No. 2,172). 

Put the milk into a stewpan, add the sugar to it, and the grated rind of the 
lemon, bring slowly to the boil. Beat the eggs in a basin, let the milk go off the 
boil, then stir it on to the eggs. Butter a mould, pour the custard into it, and 
steam slowly for about twenty minutes until quite firm. Let it get cold, then turn 
it out of the mould, cut in sUces, and then into fancy shapes — rounds, ovals, or 
squares — not too large. Have ready some frying-batter, dip each piece of custard 
in it, so that it is quite coated, drop them into very hot fat, and fry until a golden 
colour. Drain on paper, dish up in a pile on a hot dish, and dust over with castor 
or icing sugar. Serve hot. 

. Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at alL times. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,340. BEIGNETS A LA BOURGEOISE (FRITTERS, BOURGEOISE STYLE). 

1 stale genoise cake. ^ gill cream. J oz. castor sugar. 

I gill milk. vanilla. frying-batter (No. 2,172). 

Cut the cake into sHces ^ inch thick, stamp out with a round or oval cutter into 
pieces 1| to 2 inches across. Mix together the milk and cream, add the sugar and 
a few drops of vanilla essence, or any other kind of flavouring desired. Dip the 
pieces of cake into this, drain them, dip them into frying-batter, and fry in very 
hot fat. Lift them out of the fat as soon as they are a golden brown colour, drain 
on paper, dish them on a napkin or fancy paper, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



12 macaroons, 
apricot jam. 



2,341. BEIGNETS DE MACARONS. 

breadcrumbs. 

frying-fat (No. 197). i gill cream. 



^ gill white wine or 
kirsch. 



Dip the macaroons in the wine or kirsch, so as to soften them, then hollow them 
out. On the smooth side fill them with apricot jam, join two together, dip in 
cream ; beat the egg on a plate, put the macaroons into it, brush them over, and 
then toss in fine, fresh breadcrumbs. Fry in plenty of very hot fat. Drain on 
paper, dish them on a napkin or dish-paper, sprinkle with icing sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



684 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,342. FLORADOR FRITTERS. 



3 tablespoonfuls of florador (medium grain). 
1 lemon. 



1 oz. sugar. 
1 pint milk. 



butter, 
jam sauce. 



07U 1 M? ^^*° ^ saucepan, add the sugar and the grated rind of a lemon 

When boihng, sprinkle in the florador, and stir over the fire until it is cooked and 
very thick. Rmse a tin with cold water, and then spread the florador mixture 
over It, making It about i inch thick. Put this aside in a cool place to get perfectly 
cold and set, then cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter, press the trimmings 
together in order to cut out some more rounds. Melt some butter in a frying-pan 
put in the fritters, and cook over the fire until one side is a golden brown • then 
turn them carefully, and fry on the other side. Take them up, and drain on paper 
Dish them up neatly on a hot dish, and serve with jam sauce. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 persons. 




Fig. 174. — Beignets Souffles. 



2,343. BEIGNETS SOUFFLES (SOUFFLE FRITTERS). 
2 ozs. flour. I 1 oz. butter. | 1 gill water. | 1 whole egg. | 1 yolk of egg. | sugar. | ground cinnamon. 

Put the water and butter into a stewpan, and bring to the boil. Sieve the 
flour, and as soon as the butter is melted and the water boils put in the flour. Stir 
vigorously with a wooden spoon until the mixture becomes a smooth paste and 
leaves the sides of the saucepan. Remove from the fire, and allow the mixture to 
cool, then stir in the whole egg, and beat well ; then add the yolk, and proceed in 
the same way. Have ready some hot fat, but it must not be too hot ; drop the 
mixture into this by means of a teaspoon in small pieces about the size of a walnut. 
After the portions are in, increase the heat of the fat gradually, and cook the fritters 
until they are a nice golden colour, dry and crisp. Put some castor sugar on a 
piece of kitchen-paper, mix with it a small quantity of ground cinnamon. Lift 
the fritters out of the fat when done, and put them straight into the prepared sugar. 
Toss them about it, so that they get well coated. Dish in a pile on a napkin or 
dish-paper, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. or 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always 
Suificient for 3 or 4 persons. 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 685 

2,344. BEIGNETS SOUFFLES EN SURPRISE (SURPRISE FRITTERS). 



4 ozs. flour. i ^ pint water. i 2 yolks. 

2 ozs. butter. | 2 whole eggs. | sugar. 



apricot jam. 
frying-fat (No. 197). 



Sieve the flour on to a piece of kitchen-paper. Put the butter and water into 
a stewpan, place this on the fire, and as soon as the butter is melted and the water 
boils add the flour. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon until the mixture becomes 
thick, and leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. Take the pan off the fire, and 
let the mixture cool a little, then beat in the eggs one at a time until the paste is 
smooth and hght. Have ready some hot fat, not too hot, drop the mixture into 
this from a teaspoon, the portions being about the size of.a walnut. Increase the 
heat of the fat gradually, and cook the fritters until they are a nice golden colour, 
dry and crisp. When done, take them up, drain well, make a small opening in 
each, and fill them with the apricot jam. RoU them in sugar, dish up in a pile, 
and serve hot. Instead of jam, stewed fruit, confectioner's custard (No. 2,170), 
or frangipane cream (No. 2,171) can be used for fiUing the fritters. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 or 8 persons. 

2,345. CRfiPES (PANCAKES). 
4 ozs. flour. I 2 eggs. | ^ pint milk. | pinch salt. | sugar. | lemon. | lard. 

Put the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, break the eggs into the flour, work 
them together, add the milk by degrees. When half the milk has been added, beat 
the batter for ten minutes, then stir in the remainder of the milk. Let the mixture 
stand, if possible, for one hour before using. To fry the pancakes proceed as 
foUows : Melt a piece of lard in an omelet pan ; when quite hot, pour in just suffi- 
cient of the batter to cover the bottom of the pan. Cook until it is lightly browned 
on one side, then toss it over, and let the other side brown. Have ready a piece of 
kitchen paper, sprinkle with sugar, turn the pancake on to it, dredge sugar over, 
and roll up. Proceed in the same way until the whole of the batter is used up. 
Dish up on a hot dish, and serve with sugar and lemon. Pancakes should be sent 
to table as soon as made, and should be served very hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at aU times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,346. FRENCH PANCAKES. 

3 eggs. I 3 ozs. flour. | 3 gills milk. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 2| ozs. butter. | jam. 

Put 2 ozs. of butter into a basin, add the sugar and cream together. Sieve the 
flour, add it to the butter and sugar, stir in by degrees the milk and eggs, beat well 
for about fifteen minutes. Let stand for one hour. Butter some saucers with the 
remaining h oz. of butter, pour in the mixture, and bake quickly for about ten 
minutes. When done, turn the pancakes out of the saucers, place one on the top 
of the other with jam between, dredge with sugar, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,347. PANCAKES A LA NORMANDE. 



pancake batter (No. 2,173). 
2 or 3 apples. 



2 ozs. butter, 
sugar. 



butter or lard for 
frying. 

Prepare the batter, and let it stand for one hour before using, if possible. Peel 
and core the apples, cut them in thin sHces. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and, 
when hot, put in the sfices of apple, and saute them in the butter. Put a small 
piece of butter or lard into an omelet-pan ; when hot, cover the bottom of the pan 
with the mixture, arrange over this a layer of the apple-sHces, cover with some 
more of the batter. When lightly coloured, toss the pancake over, turn it out 



pancake batter (No. 2,173). 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly. 1 tablespoonful brandy. 



686 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

when done on to sugared paper. Continue in this way until all the batter and 
apple is used up. Dish on a napkin, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,348. CRfiPES FARCIS. 

2 ozs. butter, 
sugar. 

Work the butter in a basin until creamy, then add the red-currant jelly, lemon- 
juice, and brandy. Make the pancakes in the usual way, fill them with the pre- 
pared mixture, roll them up, and dish on a napkin. Sprinkle with sugar,^ and 
serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

CROQUETTES AND RISSOLES 

2,349. CROQUETTES DE MARRONS (CHESTNUT CROQUETS). 



1 lb. chestnuts. 
\ pint water. 



3 ozs. sugar. 2 egg yolks. sabayon sauce 



vaniUa. 



(No. 173). 



1 whole egg. 
breadcrumbs. 



1 oz. butter. 

Sht the chestnuts on their flat side, place them on a baking-tin, and put them 
in the oven for about ten minutes or until the shells and inner skins can be removed 
with ease. After the nuts are skinned, put them into a saucepan, cover with a 
syrup made with the water and sugar, flavoured with vanilla. Cook until the 
chestnuts are tender, then rub them through a fine sieve. Put this puree into a 
stewpan, and stir it over the fire until hot. Add the butter and the egg-yolks, and 
mix thoroughly. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let cool. Divide the chestnut 
preparation into equal parts, make each part into a ball or cork shape, dip in beaten 
egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden colour in very hot fat. Drain 
well, and dish them on a napkin. Serve with a tureen of sabayon sauce separately. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 8 or 9 croquettes. 

2,350. RISSOLES DE CERISES (CHERRY RISSOLES). 
I lb. cooking cherries. | 2 ozs. sugar. | J giU water. | 2 macaroons. | puff-paste (No. 2,184). 

Stone the cherries, put them into a stewpan, add the sugar to them and the 
water, place the pan on the fire, and cook until the cherries are done. Crush the 
macaroons, roll out the puff-paste, stamp out some rounds with a cutter about 
2 inches across, place in the centre of each round a small quantity of the stewed 
cherries, sprinkle over that some of the crushed macaroons. Wet round each piece 
of paste with a little water or white of egg, fold over to form a half-moon shape, 
press the edges together. Fry the rissoles a golden brown in very hot fat. Take 
up when done, drain well, dish up on a hot dish in a pile, sprinkle with castor sugar 
and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,351. CROQUETTES DE CERISES (CROQUETS OF CHERRIES). 
^ lb. cooking cherries. | 2 to 3 ozs. sugar. | cakecrumbs. | lemon-rind. | 1 egg. 

Stone the cherries, put them into a stewpan with the sugar, a little grated 
lemon-rind, and about | gill of water. Place the pan on the fire, and cook until 
the cherries are tender, then add sufficient genoise or sponge-cake crumbs to make 
into a fairly stiff paste. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it cool. When 
cold and set, divide the preparation into equal portions, make them up into rolls 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



687 



the shape of corks. Beat the egg on a plate, put the croquettes into it, brush over, 
lift them into some of the genoise cakecrumbs, and coat well. Egg and crumb a 
second time. Fry in very hot fat until a golden colour, drain, dish up on a napkin 
or dish-paper, sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,352. RISSOLES D'ORANGES (ORANGE RISSOLES). 

2 oranges. | castor sugar. | puff-pastry. | whipped cream. | frying-fat (No. 197). 

Peel the oranges, take away all the white pith, divide the fruit into sections, 
taking care not to break the skin. Roll out the pastry,' stamp out some rounds 
with a cutter, put some of the orange sections in the centre, dredge with sugar, 
fold over in half, first wetting round the edge of each with a little water or white 
of egg, press well together, and fry in very hot fat a golden colour. Take up, 
drain well, arrange in a pile on a hot dish, sprinkle castor sugar over, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, December to July. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



; 



1 










^V^IHk"'''' 













2,353. 

\ lb. rice. 
2 pints milk. 



Fig. 175. — Croquettes de Riz. 
CROQUETTES DE RIZ (RICE CROQUETTES). 



3 yolks of 
eggs. 



4 ozs. sugar. 
1 lemon. 



angelica. 
1 whole egg. 



breadcrumbs, 
stewed apples. 



Wash the rice, put it into a stewpan, cover with cold water, and bring to the 
boil, then drain. Put the milk on to boil in a saucepan, grate the lemon-rind, and 
add it and the sugar to the milk. Boil until the rice is tender and has absorbed the 
milk. It must be stirred constantly as soon as the rice begins to thicken, or it 
will burn. Let cool a Httle, then stir in the sugar. Work in the yolks one at a 
time, stir over the fke until set, turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it get quite 
cold. Divide the preparation into equal portions, make these into pear-shapes, 
dip them in beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry them in very hot fat a golden 
colour. Drain them on kitchen paper, insert in the end of each a strip of angehca 
to represent a stalk. Dish in a circle, put some nicely stewed apples or apricots in 
the centre, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

PT. IX. 44 



688 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,354. CROQUETTES DE POIRES (PEAR CROQUETTES). 

6 halves of pears. 1 oz. sugar. 1 lemon. j savoy biscuits. 

3 ozs. rice. 1 pint milk. 1 egg. I angelica. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and then add the 
rice and grated rind of the lemon. Stir this over the fire until the rice is tender 
and the milk absorbed, then turn it on to a plate, and put aside to cool. Stand 
the pears on a hair sieve until the syrup has drained away, then stuff the hollow 
side with the boiled rice, shaping it to a dome, so that they look like whole pears. 
Beat the egg on a plate, crush the savoy biscuits, and rub them through a wire sieve 
Dip the stuffed pears in the egg, and toss in the savoy-crumbs. Have ready a pan 
of very hot fat, fry the croquettes in it until a golden brown. Take them up, and 
drain on paper. Insert a small piece of angehca in the end of each to represent the 
pear-stalk. Dish up on a dish-paper, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. In season all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 pears. 

OMELETTES SUCREES 

2,355. SWEET OMELET. 

3 eggs. I 1 dessertspoonful cream. | J oz. butter. | 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. | vanilla essence. 

Break the eggs into a basin, beat them with a fork until the yolks and whites 
are thoroughly mixed, then add the sugar, cream, and a few drops of vanilla essence. 
Mix well together. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; when hot, pour in the egg 
mixture, stir the eggs in the centre with a spoon until they begin to set, then roll 
the mixture towards the handle of the pan, shape into an oval, toss it over quickly 
with the spoon, remove from the fire rt once. Turn it on to a hot dish, dredge 
some castor sugar over it, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 2 persons. 

N.B. — Omelets should always be made at the last moment, just before they are 
wanted, and should not be kept waiting. If not eaten as soon as cooked, they become 
tough and leathery. New-laid eggs, if possible, should always be used for the 
making of omelets. 

2,356. OMELETTE A LA CELESTINE. 



1 dessertspoonful cream, 
any kind of jam. 



3 eggs. I 1 oz. macaroons. 

^ oz. butter. | J oz. castor sugar. 

Beat the eggs in a basin, yolks and whites together, until thoroughly mixed ; 
crush the macaroons, and stir them into the eggs with the sugar and cream. Melt 
the butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is hot, pour in the egg mixture. Stir 
until it begins to set, then place in the centre a tablespoonful of any kind of jam, 
roll up towards the handle of the pan, let it lightly colour, turn over quickly, take 
it off the fire, and dish on a hot dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 

2,357. OMELETTE AU RHUM (RUM OMELET). 
3 eggs. I \ oz. butter. | small glass rum. | ^ oz. castor sugar. 1 pinch of salt. 

Beat the eggs in a basin with the salt and sugar until they are thoroughly mixed. 
Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; when quite hot, pour in the eggs, stir until be- 
ginning to set, then roll towards the handle of the pan into the shape of an oval 
cushion. Turn over lightly, take the pan off the fire, and dish the omelet on a hot 
dish. Sprinkle with sugar, pour the rum round the omdst, set a hght to it, and 
send to table at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 6g9 

2,353. OMELETTE AUX POMMES (OMELET WITH APPLES). 



3 eggs 



1 tablespoonful stewed apple. 
1 dessertspoonful cream. 



^ oz. sugar, 
grated Icmon-rind. | oz. butter. 

Beat the eggs in a basin with a fork until well mixed, then stir in the sugar, 
cream, and lemon-rind. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the eggs as soon 
as the butter is hot, stir them in the centre with the back of a spoon uniii the eggs 
begin to set, then put the apple in the centre, fold over, and roll towards the handle 
of the pan. Shape into an oval cushion, turn over quickly, remove from the fire, 
and turn the omelet on to a hot dish, dust with sugar, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, lO-minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 2 persons. 

2,359. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE. 

4 yolks of eggs. | 6 whites of eggs. | 2 ozs. castor sugar. | vanilla essence. | J oz. butter. 

Put the yolks into a basin, add the sugar to them and a few drops of vanilla 
essence. Cream together with a wooden spoon. Put the whites of eggs into another 
basin, whisk them to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the yolks. Butter a dish, 
dust it with sugar, place the preparation on it, pile it up into an oval shape, smooth 
it round with a knife, dust over with sugar, and place in a moderate oven for about 
ten minutes. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

N.B. — These omelets can be flavoured according to taste with lemon, orange, 
almond, etc. 

2,360. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE A LA CONFITURE (SOUFFLEE OMELET 

WITH JAM). 

2 yolks of eggs. J oz. castor sugar. I J tablespoonful cream. pinch salt. 

3 whites of eggs. | oz. butter. | 1 tablespoonful jam. vanilla. 

Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and cream them together. 
Stir in the cream and vanilla. Put the whites into a basin with a pinch of salt 
and whisk until it becomes a stiff froth. Stir lightly ii^to the yolks. Melt the 
butter in an omelet-pan, put in the mixture. As soon as the butter is hot, spread 
it over the pan, smooth it on the top, and place the pan over a low fire to cook for 
three minutes. Then place the pan containing the omelet in the oven for three 
minutes to brown the surface. Have ready a stigared piece of paper, turn the 
omelet, when done, out on to it, spread over half the omelet the jam, which has been 
heated over the fire, fold the omelet in half, turn on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 2 persons. 

2,361. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE A LA STEPHANIE. 



4 yolks of eggs. 
6 whites of eggs. 



2 macaroons. 
1 oz. sugar. 



1 tablespoonful maras- 1 small glass rum 

^ oz. butter. 



chino. 

Put the yolks and sugar into a basin, and cream them together. Crush the 
macaroons coarsely, pour the maraschino over them, and let them soalr for ten 
minutes. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir the macaroons into the 
yolks, add the whites, and mix all hghtly together. Butter a dish, sprinkle over 
some castor sugar, arrange the omelet on this, pile it up into an oval shape, smooth 
it round the sides with a knife, make a hollow in the centre, place in a moderate 
oven for about ten minutes. When cooked, pour the rum into the hollow in the 
centre, set a light to it, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi 
cient for 3 persons. 

44- -2 



690 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



TIMBALES AND CHARLOTTES 

2,362. CHARLOTTE DE GROSEILLES (CURRANT CHARLOTTE). 

g^noise cake. | J lb. red currants. | J lb. raspberries. | sugar to sweeten. | 4 ozs. butter. 

Cut the cake into strips about | inch thick ; cut out some heart-shaped pieces 
for the bottom of the mould, and some strips about 1| inches wide to go round 
the sides. Well butter a charlotte-mould. Melt the butter, and dip the heart- 
shaped pieces of cake into it. Arrange these at the bottom of the mould, so that 
they overlap each other ; dip the strips that are to go round the side also in the 
melted butter, stand these all round the mould overlapping each other. Pick the 
currants and raspberries, put them into a stewpan with the sugar, stew gently over 
the fire until the fruit is soft, cook the fruit as dry as possible, fill the hned mould 
with the fruit, pile it up rather high above the mould, as the fruit shrinks during 
the cooking. Put the charlotte in the oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. 
Turn out when done on to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 176. — Timbale aux Fruits a la Nationale. 



2,363. 

mixed fruits, 
cherries. 



TIMBALE AUX FRUITS A LA NATIONALE. 



" baba-paste " (No. \ pint water. angelica. 

2,369). 4 ozs. sugar. 1 glass wine. 

Prepare the " baba-paste," sufficient to fill a quart timbale-mould, well buttered ; 
bake in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out on to a sieve, and let it get cold 
Put the half-pint of water into a stewpan, add the sugar, and boil until a thick syrup 
is made. Add the wine or maraschino, prepare some fruit (any different kinds that 
are in season, or preserved fruits, such as pineapple, peaches, apricots, etc.). Put 
these into the sjrrup, and simmer for two minutes, then drain. Scoop out the centre 
of the cake, fill it with the fruit, pour some of the syrup over the fruit an^^ over the 
cake, decorate with glace cherries and pieces of angelica cut in the shape of leaves. 
Place the timbale in the oven to get thoroughly hot through, and ^erve hot. This 
pudding can also be served cold. In that case, whipped cream served with it would 
be an improvement. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required. 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS (SWEETS) 



691 



2,364. CHARLOTTE DE POMMES (APPLE CHARLOTTE), 
stale bread. | butter. | 2 lbs. apples. | 2 ozs. sugar. | rind of 1 lemon. 

Cut the bread into slices about ^ inch thick, cut out some heart-shaped pieces 
for the bottom of the mould, and some strips about IJ inches wide to go round the 
sides. Well butter a charlotte-mould. Melt some butter, and dip the heart-shaped 
pieces of bread into it. Arrange these at the bottom of the mould (the pieces 
should overlap each other), place the strips standing up against the mould, havinc 
first dipped them into the melted butter. The shces should slightly overlap! 
Peel and core the apples, cut them up, and put them into a stewpan v/ith the sugar, 
thinly-peeled lemon-rind, and a very little water. Put the pan on the fire, and stew 
them gently until they are tender and form a thick puree, then add 1 oz. butter. 
Mix well, stew a little longer, remove the lemon-rind, and fill the mould. Put into 
the oven, and bake for about thirty to forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, 
and serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 




Fig. 177. — Abricots, Marie Louisb. 



2,365. TIMBALES D'ABRICOTS, MARIE LOUISE. 

6 genoise cakes. I 6 half-apricots. | cherries. | apricot puree. | syrup. | 2 whites of eggs. [ angelica. 
Make some genoise mixture, half fill some small greased moulds, and bake in a 
moderate oven. When done, turn out of the tins, and let cool a little ; then scoop 
out the centre of each ; make an apricot puree, whisk the whites of eggs very stiffly, 
and stir it into the puree. Fill the cases with this, put into the oven, and bake for 
ten minutes. Cook the apricots in syrup, and place one on the top of each timbale 
when they are taken from the oven. Decorate with cherries and angelica, and 
serve with an apricot syrup. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

2,366. TIMBALE DE POIRES. 

savarin paste I apricot jam. sugar. 

(No. 2,367). 1 apricot sauce (No. 148). vanilla. 

Prepare sufficient savarin paste to fill a quart charlotte-mould. Butter the 
mould, put in the paste, and let it rise, then bake it. When done, turn out on to a 



1 oz. pistachios. 

2 ozs. butter. 



lemon. 

4 or 5 pears. 



/' 



692 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



sieve, and let it cool. Cut a slice off the top, and scoop out the inside, leaving only 
a crust. Rub some apricot jam through a hair sieve, cover the outside of the cake 
with a thin layer of this. Chop the pistachio-nuts very finely, after they have been 
skinned ; sprinkle these over the jam, so that the sides of the cake are quite covered 
Prepare the slice that was cut off, and which will form the lid, in the same way. 
Cut the pears in quarters, peel them, take out the cores, and cut them into thick 
slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the pears, add the thinly-peeled rind 
of a lemon, sprinkle over a little sugar, cover the pan, and place it in a moderate 
oven to cook, or over a rather slow fire. When the pears are tender, mix with 
them two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, add a little vanilla essence, and mix all 
well together. Fill the timbale with this preparation, put on the lid, and serve on 
a hot dish. Send the sauce to table separately. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, August to Sep- 
tember. Sufficient for 5 persons. 




Fig. 178. — Bordure Savarin, 



2,367. BORDURE SAVARIN AUX FRUITS (SAVARIN BORDER WITH FRUITS). 



8 ozs. flour, 
4 ozs. butter. 



1 gill sherry, 
about I gill milk. 



mixed fruits, 
syrup. 



J oz. sugar. 5 eggs. 

I oz. yeast. \ oz. salt. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, put the yeast into a small basin, dissolve with the 
lukewarm milk, make a well in the centre of the flour, pour in the yeast mixture, 
add the eggs, mix all together with the hand for a few minutes. Put the butter 
into a clean cloth, and knead it well, so as to extract all the moisture from it and 
to render it soft, divide into small pieces, and arrange them over the paste. Cover 
the basin, and place it in a warm place until it has risen to twice its original size ; 
then knead the paste, adding the salt until it has absorbed the butter and has 
become elastic. Lastly, add the sugar, and knead again until it is mixed in. Butter 
a savarin border-mould, sprinkle with sugar or chopped almonds, fill the mould 
with the savarin mixture, about half full, stand in a warm place until the paste 
rises to the top of the tin. Bake in a hot oven. Prepare | pint of syrup, add the 
sherry to it, and keep hot. When the border is ready, turn it out on to a hot dish, 
soak it well with half of the prepared S3rrup. Have ready some fruits, mixed with 
the rest of the syrup, fill the centre of the savarin with these, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, uncertain. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS {SWEETS) 



693 



2,368. PRUNE CHARLOTTE. 



1 lb. prunes. 

I lb. sugar. 



1 lemon. 
I pint water. 



3 or 4 slices of bread 
and butter. 



1 glass red wine, 
butter. 



Put the prunes into a stewpan with the water and sugar, the rind of the lemon 
thinly peeled, and the wine (the latter may be omitted). Stew gently by the side 
of the fire until the prunes are quite soft, then turn them into a basin, and, when 
cool enough, remove the stones. Butter a pie-dish, cut some shces of bread and 
butter in convenient pieces, and hne the dish all over with them. Pour in the prunes 
and their liquor, cover the top with sHces of bread and butter, put the pudding into 
a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. When done, turn it out of 
the dish on to a hot dish, sprinkle castor sugar over, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^HT^ 


!^ 


l^^l 


^^^^^^^^^^^■^ i 




Sr^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^V;^. X 




* I^^^^^^^^H 


^^^^r #<L 


i^i-C^.w*" .-> ■ .^■' 


i^^H 


^^^^^B 


NP@h 


'j^^j ^^^^^^^1 






^^H 



Fig. 179. — Baba au Khum. 



l^ 



2,369. BABA AU RHUM. 

I lb. flour. I 6 ozs. butter. 1 gill milk. | 1 oz. sultanas. | ^ oz. castor sugar. | angelica. 
\ oz. yeast. 1 5 eggs. 1 oz. currants. | mixed fruit. ! rum syrup (No. 171). ! cherries. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, dissolve the yeast in lukewarm milk, make a well in 
the centre of the flour, pour in the yeast mixture, add the eggs, mix all together 
with the hand for a few minutes. Put the butter into a cloth, and knead it well, 
BO as to extract all the moisture from it and to render it soft. Divide it into small 
pieces, and arrange them over the paste. Cover the basin, and place it in a warm 
place until it has risen to twice its original size ; then knead the paste, adding the 
salt, until it has absorbed the butter and has become elastic. Lastly, add the 
sugar, the currants, and sultanas, and knead again until they are mixed in. Butter 
a large baba-mould, turn the mixture into it (it should not be more than half full), 
put into a warm place to rise to the top of the tin, then bake it in a moderate oven. 
When done, turn out on to a dish, pour some rum syrup over it, fill the centre with 
some fruits mixed with the same syrup, decorate with angelica and cherries, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, uncertain. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 

2,370. APPLE TART. 

IJ lbs. cooking apples. | J lb. short pastry. | 2 cloves. | sugar to taste. | water. 
Peel and core the apples, cut them in shces, taking care not to cut them too thinly. 
Put them into a pie-dish, add the cloves and a little water. Put the sugar in the 
centre, and cover it with the apples. Holl the pastry out about J inch in thickness, 
wet the edge of the pie-dish and lay on it a narrow band of the pastry. Wet this 
band of pastry, and lay the rest of the paste over. Press together hghtly, trim 
the edges, and ornament them by scalloping with a knife. Make a hole at each end 
by slightly raising the pastry from the dish. Place in the oven, and bake for about 
thirty minutes. Take it up, and dredge castor sugar over the top. Serve hot or cold. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2.371. BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

6 cooking apples. | J lb. short paste. | sugar. 

Peel the apples thinly, and core them without breaking. Roll the pastry out 
about ^ inch in thickness, cut out twelve rounds with a pastry-cutter, place an 
apple in one of the rounds, and work the pastry round the apple until it reaches to 
the middle of it ; then fill the centre hole with sugar, lay another round of pastry 
on the top, and work it down to meet the other round. Fasten the join with a httle 
water ; continue in this way until all the apples are used. Place the dumplings on 
a floured tin, and bake for about half an hour. Take them up, and dredge with 
castor sugar. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Bufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2.372. BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

6 apples. I ^ lb. flour. | J lb. beef -suet. 1 sugar. | water. 

Peel the apples thinly, and remove the core without breaking them. Sieve the 
flour into a basin, chop the suet finely, and add to the flour. Mix thoroughly, and 
add sufficient water to form a paste. Roll it out, and cut into twelve rounds with 
a pastry-cutter. Stand an apple in one round, and work the pastry up until it is 
half covered. Fill the centre with sugar, and cover the top with another round, 
making it meet the first. Tie each dumphng in a pudding-cloth which has been 
scalded and sprinkled with flour. Put them into boiling water, and boil for one hour. 
Remove the cloths, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,373. BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

1 lb. flour. I ^ lb. beef-suet. | 2 cloves. | IJ lbs. apples. | water. | sugar to taste. 
Sieve the flour into a basin, chop the suet very finely, and add to the flour. 
Mix these together with enough water to bind them, divide the paste into two 

694 



TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 695 

equal portions, and roll them out. Butter a deep Yorkshire tin, and line it with 
one of the pieces of suet pastry. Peel and core the apples, cut into sHces, and put 
into the prepared tin. Add the cloves and a very little water. Enough apples 
must be used to fill the tin. Wet round the edges of the pastry, lay the other half 
over, and pinch the edges together. Make a small hole at one end to allow the 
steam to escape, put into a moderate oven, and bake for thirty to forty-five minutes. 
Take it out of the tin, cut into neat squares, dish them on a hot dish, and dust over 
with castor sugar. Serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2.374. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

1^ pints green gooseberries. | sugar. | J lb. flour. | J lb. beef-suet. I water. 

Top and tail the gooseberries, sieve the flour into a basin, chop the suet very 
finely, removing all skin. Add this to the flour, and moisten with sufficient water 
to make a paste. Turn on to a floured board, and knead a Httle ; then cut off one- 
third of the pastry, and put on one side for covering the top of the pudding. Well 
butter a pudding-basin, then roll out the larger piece of pastry, and hne the basin 
with it. Fill with the gooseberries, sweeten to taste with sugar, and add about 
i gill water. Roll the rest of the pastry out, cover the top with it, press the edges 
together, and fold them over. Rinse a pudding-cloth in boiUng water, then sprinkle 
it with flour. Place this over the pudding, tie with string, and put into a saucepan 
of boiling water. Boil for two hours, keeping it well covered with boihng water all 
the time. Take it up, remove the cloth, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable, May and June. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2.375. BAKED JAM ROLY-POLY. 

J lb. short pastry. | jam. 

Roll the pastry out about J inch thick, spread over it a layer of jam, leaving a 
margin all round. Wet this edge slightly, and then roll the pudding up. Press 
the edges tightly together, place the roly-poly on a floured baking-tin, and bake 
for about thirty minutes. Take up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 3 persons. 

2,376. ROLY-POLY PUDDING. 

J lb. flour. I J lb. suet. | salt. | jam. | water. 

Sieve the flour into a basin with a little salt, chop the suet finely, and add to 
the flour. Moisten with sufficient water to make into a paste. Turn on to a 
floured board, and roll it out. Spread the jam over (black currant for preference), 
wet the edges, and then roll it up. Tie it tightly in a pudding-cloth that has been 
scalded and then floured. Tie firmly at each end, and put into a saucepan of 
boiUng water. Boil for two hours, then turn out of the cloth on to a hot dish, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2J hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,377. RAISIN ROLY-POLY PUDDING. 
1 lb. flour. I i lb. beef-suet. | salt. | 1 lb. stoned raisins. | sweet sauce (No. 165). 

Sieve the flour into a basin, chop the suet finely, mix it into the flour, add a 
pinch of salt, stir all together until well mixed, then add sufficient water to make 
into a stiff paste. Turn this out on to a floured board, roll out into a strip. Have 



696 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

ready the raisins stoned and cut in halves. Sprinkle these thickly over the paste, 
wet round the edges with a Uttle water, roll up, fold the ends in neatly. Scald a 
pudding-cloth, flour it well, put in the pudding, tie up the ends tightly, and put 
into a saucepan of fast-boiling water and cook for two to three hours. The water 
must not be allowed to go off the boil during the cooking, and the pudding must 
be kept covered with water. When cooked, untie the ends, take off the cloth, and 
put the pudding on to a hot dish. Serve hot, and send sweet sauce to table with it. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable at all times, but 
most suitable in the winter. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 large orange. | 4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. | 3 yolks of eggs. 



2.378. ORANGE TART. 

4 whites of eggs. 
puff-paste (No. 2,184). 

Roil out the puff paste thinly, and line with it a buttered pudding-plate or 
round tin. Press the pastry hghtly round the sides, ornament the edge according 
to taste. Grate the rind of the orange, and squeeze the juice into a basin. Cream 
together the butter and sugar until quite soft, beat in the yolks of the eggs one at 
a time, then add the orange-rind and the strained juice. Whisk two whites of eggs 
very stiffly, stir this lightly into the mixture. Turn into the lined plate, and bake 
in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Beat the remaining two whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, mix in a Httle sugar, and spread it over the top of the tart. Whep 
it is cooked, return to the oven to brown a light golden colour. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2.379. TREACLE TART. 

6 ozs. short paste. | golden syrup. | breadcrumbs. | grated lemon-rind. 

Roll out the pastry, butter a large dinner-plate or a round flat tin, place the 
pastry on it so as to line it, press the paste down, and cut it round the edge. Orna- 
ment it round the sides with the prongs of a fork, pour some golden syrup on to 
the pastry, mix some grated lemon-rind with a few breadcrumbs, sprinkle these 
over the sjrrup. Roll out the trimmings of pastry, cut in strips, roll them, and fix 
them across the tart. Place in a moderate oven, and bake until the pastry is a 
golden colour. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2.380. OPEN JAM TART. 

6 ozs. short paste. | jam. | J oz. butter. 

Roll out the pastry, butter a plate or tin, line it with the pastry, trim and orna- 
ment. Roll out the trimmings of pastry, cut in strips, and twist them into cross- 
bars. Place these across the pastry, put in a moderate oven, and bake until a nice 
brown. When done, Uft off the cross-bars of pastry carefully. Have some jam 
ready heated in a saucepan, put this into the pastry, replace the cross-bars over the 
iam, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,381. GERMAN APPLE TART. 

1 oz. sugar. water. | ^ lemon. 

1 yolk of egg. apples. | 2 whites of eggs. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter hghtly, and add the sugar. Beat 
the yolk of egg, mix into it about one tablespoonful of water. Add this to the 
pastry, using more water if needed to make it into a stiff dough. Roll out on a 
\ floured board, line a buttered shallow tin with it, prick the pastry with a fork all 
over, and bake in a hot oven. Have ready some nicely stewed apples flavoured 
with grated lemon-rind ; turn the pastry out of the tin, and then fill with the apple 



\ lb. flour. 
\ lb. butter. 



TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 



G97 



mixture, cover the top with the whites of eggs very stiffly beaten, dredge with castor 
sugar, and put back in the oven to set the whites. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 6 
persons. 

2,382. JAPANESE TART. 

short pastry. | apricots. | 3 eggs. | ^ pint milk. | ^ oz. sugar. | J oz. cornflour. 

Line a shallow cake-tin or a flan-ring with short pastry. Bake in a hot oven 
until the pastry is cooked. Turn out of the tin when done, and allow it to get 
cool. Mix the cornflour with a httle of the milk, put the rest into a saucepan with 
the sugar. When boiling, stir in the cornflour, and simmer for five minutes. Beat 
the three yolks of eggs, add the cornflour and milk to them, and cook again for a 
few minutes. Place a layer of apricots at the bottom of the pastry-mould, and 
cover with a thick layer of the custard. Beat the whites of the eggs very stiffly, 
put a layer of it over the custard, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake in the oven 
until a light brown colour. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. In season always. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 




Fig. i80. — Jap^lnese Tart. 



2,383. ALMOND CHEESECAKES. 



I lb. ground almonds, 
almond essence. 



J lemon. 



3 eggs. j J lb. castor sugar, 
vanilla. | | lb. puff-paste. 



3 ozs. butter. 

]\Iix the almonds and sugar together in a basin, add a few drops of almond 
essence, half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt 
the butter, and stir into the almonds ; also the eggs well beaten. Roll out the 
puff-pastry, cut into rounds, and Hne some patty-pans with them. Fill with the 
almond cheesecake, and bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,384. WINDSOR CHEESECAKE. 

2 ozs. currants. 
2 yolks of eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft, then add the eggs and beat well. 
Rub the sponge-cake through a sieve ; peel, core, and chop the apple, clean the 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 apple. 



2 ozs. sponge- 
cake. 



1 oz. sugar. 

2 ozs. raisins. 



1 white of egg. 
^ lb. puff-pastry. 



698 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

currants, and chop the raisins. Add all these ingredients to butter and sugar. 
Roll out the pu£E-pas.te, cut it into rounds, and line some patty-pans with them. 
Fill with the prepared mixture, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Turn 
out, and dust with castor sugar. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,385. CITRON CHEESECAKES. 



J pint milk. 1 oz. sugar. | 1 oz. ground 

1 yolk of egg. 



1 oz. sponge-cake, j \ lb. puff-paste. 

2 ozs. citron peel. | 1 egg. 



vanilla. I almonds. 

Put the milk into a saucepan, put it on the fire, and, when hot, pour it on to 
the beaten yolk of egg. Let this get cold, and then return to the saucepan, and 
stir it until it boils and curdles, then strain it. Put the curd into a basin, add the 
sugar, almonds, sponge-cakecrumbs, vanilla, beaten egg, and the citron chopped 
finely. Mix all well together. Line some patty-pans with the pastry, and fill 
them with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,386. RICE CHEESECAKES. 



1 lb. puff-pastry. 1 2 ozs. butter. 

2 ozs. ground rice. | 2 ozs. sugar. 



1 saltspoonful of baking- I 1 egg. 
powder. 1 \ lemon. 



Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and cream them together until they are 
quite soft. Add the egg, and beat well. Mix the baking-powder with the ground 
rice, stir it into the butter and sugar ; also the grated rind of half a lemon and a 
good squeeze of the juice. Stir all these ingredients well together. Roll out the 
pastry, cut it into rounds, and line some patty-pans with it. Put a teaspoonful of 
the rice mixture in each, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



IJ pints milk. 

1 teaspoonful of rennet. 

1 oz. sugar. 



2,387. CURD CHEESECAKES. 

1 egg. 1 oz. candied-peel. 

2 ozs. currants. ^ lb. puff-pastry. 
1 dessertspoonful of brandy. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 

Put the milk into a saucepan, place on the fire, and bring to the boil, then curdle 
it with one teaspoonful of rennet. Break the curd with a wooden spoon, and drain 
off all the whey. Put the curd into a basin, add the well-beaten egg, the cream, 
brandy, and sugar. Clean the currants, removing all the stalks, chop the peel 
finely, and add these to the other ingredients. Roll out the puff-pastry, cut into 
rounds, and Une some patty-pans with it. Fill with the curd mixture, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,388. WEYMOUTH CHEESECAKES. 



1 pint milk. 

2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. sugar. 



1 teaspoonful of 
rennet. 

2 eggs. 



^ lb. puff-pastry. 

1 oz. ground almonds. 

1 oz. sponge-cake. 



1 dessertspoonful of 

cream. 
J lemon. 

Boil the milk and curdle it with the rennet. Break up the curd with a spoon, 
strain off the whey. Cream the butter and sugar until soft, beat in the eggs, add 
the curd, almonds, cream, sponge-cakecrumbs, and the grated lemon-rind. Roll 
out the pastry, cut into rounds, and line some patty-pans. Fill with the mixture, 
and bake for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 699 



2,389. APPLE CHEESECAKES. 



1 lb. apples. I I lb. puff- 



1 lemon. 



1 oz. cakecrumbs. 
2 ozs. butter. | pastry. 2 ozs. sugar. 2 eggs. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them in slices, put into a saucepan with the sugar, 
nnd of the lemon, and a little water. Cook until they are quite soft, then ru > 
through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, add the butter, and stir over the 
fire until it is melted. Take the saucepan off the fire, mix in the cakecrumbs, and 
the eggs well beaten. Roll out the pastry, cut into rounds, and line some patty- 
pans with them. Fill them with the apple mixture, place in a hot oven, and bake 
for about fifteen to twenty minutes. Take them up, and dust over with castor 
sugar. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,390. COCOANUT CHEESECAKES. 

J lb. puff-paste. I J lb. desiccated cocoanut. | 3 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. sugar. [ 2 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft, beat in the eggs one at a time. When 
very well beaten, stir in the desiccated cocoanut. Roll out the puff-pastry, cut it 
into rounds, and fine some patty-pans with them. Nearly fill them with the cocoa- 
nut mixture, put into a hot oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. Take them 
up, and dust with sugar. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,391. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. 

J lb. puff-paste. | 2 oranges. | 3 ozs. loaf sugar. | 2 ozs, butter. | 3 eggs. 

Put the butter and sugar into a saucepan, add the grated rind of the oranges, 
the strained juice, and the beaten eggs. Stir this over a slow fire until the sugar 
is melted, and the mixture begins to thicken. Roll out the puff-paste, cut out into 
rounds, and line some patty-pans with them. Fill with the mixture, and bake in a 
hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out, and dust with sugar. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,392. BALMORAL TARTLETS 

4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 
2 ozs. peel. 



3 ozs. cakecrumbs. i 2 ozs. glace cherries or sultanas. 

3 ozs. flour. ^ lb. rough puff-pastry (No. 2,184), or 

2 eggs. I short pastry (No. 2,183). 



Roll out the pastry, cut it out with a round cutter a size larger than the patty- 
pans to be used, Hne the pans with the rounds. Put the butter and sugar into a 
basin, work them together until creamy. Separate the yolks and whites, beat the 
yolks into the butter and sugar one at a time. Pass the cakecrumbs through a 
fine sieve, cut the cherries in quarters (or if sultanas are used, clean and stalk them), 
chop the peel, stir these ingredients into the butter, sugar, and yolks. Whisk the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly to the other ingredients. Fill 
the patty-pans with the mixture. Roll out a piece of pastry, which should have 
been kept back for the purpose, cut it in strips, twist each strip, and place them 
across the patties, two on each, crossing each other. Put the tartlets into a mode- 
rately hot oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. When done, take them out 
of the tins, and place on a sieve to cool. These tartlets can be served either hot or 
cold. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



700 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,393. LEMON CHEESECAKES. 
2 lemons. | 2 ozs. butter. | 3 eggs. | ^ lb. sugar. | ^ lb. puff-paste (No. 2,185). 

Put the butter and sugar into a saucepan, grate the rind of one lemon into it, 
and add the strained juice of two. Beat the eggs well, and then pour into the 
saucepan with the other ingredients. Stir them over a slow fire until the sugar is 
melted and the mixture begins to thicken. Care must be taken to keep it well 
stirred, and not to have too great a heat under, as it burns very easily. Roll out 
the puff-pastry, cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter, and hne some patty-pans 
with thesm. Three-parts fill with the lemon-curd, put them in a hot oven, and bake 
for fifteen to twenty minutes. Take them up, remove from the tins, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

This lemon cheesecake can be put into jars, and covered down, in which case it 
will keep good for some time. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufiicient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,394. DAMES D'HONNEUR (MAIDS OF HONOUR). 



puff-paste (No. 2,185). 

3 ozs. ground almonds. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. 



J oz. Brown and Poison's Paisley 

flour. 
a few drops of almond essence. 



vanilla. 

\ gill cream. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

Put the ground almonds and sugar into a basin, mix in the Paisley flour, add a 
few drops of almond essence and a httle vanilla. Add the yolks of eggs one at a 
time, stir in the cream, mix all together thoroughly. Roll out the puff-pastry, cut 
out some rounds of the pastry with a round cutter a size larger than the patty-pans 
to be used, line the pans with these, fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate 
oven. When done, turn them out of the patty-pans, and dish, if they are to be 
served hot ; if cold, place them on a sieve as soon as they are removed from the 
tins. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,395. STRAWBERRY TARTLETS. 

puff-paste (No. 2,185). | ^ pint strawberries. | 2| ozs. castor sugar. | 4 eggs. 

Take the stalks off the strawberries, crush them with a fork, mix the sugar with 
them in a basin, beat the eggs well, and add to the strawberries and sugar. Beat 
the mixture a Httle. Roll out the pastry, cut it out with a cutter a size larger than 
the patty-pans to be used, line the pans with the rounds of pastry, fill with the 
mixture three-parts full. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Turn out of the tins when done, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,396. RASPBERRY TARTLETS. 

puff-paste. I 1 gill raspberries. | red-currant jelly. | sugar. 

Roll out the puff-paste, cut it in rounds, and line some patty-pans with it. 
Prick the paste all over, and bake in a hot oven, but do not let them brown. When 
done, turn out the pastry-cases on to a sieve, and let them get cold. Pick the 
raspberries, sprinkle them with sugar, fill the pastry-rounds with the fruit, put a 
piece of red-currant jelly on the top of each, place them in the oven again for about 
eight to ten minutes. When done, take out of the oven, and serve hot or 
«old. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 701 



2,397. BANBURY CAKES 

4 ozs. butter. I 4 ozs. currants. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. 2 ozs. candied peel. 

4 ozs. sultanas. i 1 lemon. 



4 ozs. macaroons. | J teaspoonfol mixed 

^ teaspoonful ground j spice. 



ginger. I 1 lb. puff-paste. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, clean the currants and sultanas, and 
remove the stalks. Chop the peel and the sultanas finely, mix these with the 
butter and sugar, stir in the spice and the grated rind of the lemon, crush the 
macaroons, and add them to the rest of the ingredients. Mix all well together with 
the juice of a lemon. Roll out the paste to about ^ inch thick, cut out with an oval 
cutter about 4 inches in length and 3 inches wide. Place some of the above mixture 
in the centre of each piece of paste, bring the two edges together to the centre, 
press together, flatten the ends to about ^ inch thick. A flat-iron is the best thing 
for pressing the pastry. Sift some sugar over, and press again with the iron, so 
that the surface is smooth. Place the cakes on a baking-sheet, and place in a 
moderate oven to bake. They will take about thirty minutes to cook. When 
done, place them on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 28. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to bake. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 

2,398. CANNELONS. 
I lb. ptflF-paste. | 1 white of egg. | jam. | frying-fat (No. 197). | sugar. 

Roll out the pastry into a long strip from 3 to 4 inches wide, cut this again into 
pieces about 2 inches in width. Spread some jam over these pieces, leaving a clear 
space round the edge. Brush round the edges with white of egg, roll up the pastry, 
close the ends carefully. When all the cannelons are ready, fry them in hot fat 
until a golden brown. They will take about five minutes to cook. Drain them 
well on a piece of kitchen paper when removed from the fat. Dish them on a hot 
dish on a napkin or dish-paper, place one layer crossing another. Serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 

2,399. TARTELETTES AU CHOCOLAT (CHOCOLATE TARTLETS). 

For Pastry. 

J lb. flour. I 1 teaspoonful sugar. | 1 gill milk. | 4 ozs. butter. 

For Mixture. 

2 eggs. I 3 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. chocolate. I 3 ozs. stale sponge-cake. 

2 ozs. butter. ^ oz. cornflour. J teaspoonful allspice. I chocolate icing (No. 2,177). 

Sieve the flour into a basin, break up the butter, and rub it into the flour. Add 
the sugar, mix with enough milk to make a stiff paste. Roll it out thinly, cut into 
rounds with a round cutter a size larger than the patty-pans to be used, fine the 
pans with these rounds of pastry, prick the bottom of each with a fork, and fill 
with the mixture. Put the yolks of the two eggs into a basin, add the sugar to 
them, and beat together until creamy. Grate the chocolate, stir it into the eggs 
and sugar, add the spice and cornflour. Rub the sponge-cake through a sieve, and 
mix with the rest of the ingredients. Melt the butter, whisk the whites very stiffly, 
work in the butter, then add the whites, stirring them in quickly and lightly. 
When the tartlet-pans are filled, place them on a baking-sheet, and put in the oven 
to bake for twenty to twenty-five minutes. W^hen done, take them out of the 
tins, and put them on to a sieve to cool. Cover the top of each tartlet with chocolate 
icing, let it set, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



702 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,400. EMPRESS ROLLS. 



^ lb. puff-pastry. 
4 ozs. sponge-cake. 



2 ozs. ground rice, 
castor sugar. 



^ lemon. 4 ozs. raspberry 

1 egg. jam. 

Rub the sponge-cake through a sieve, put these crumbs into a basin, add the 
rice, grated rind of the lemon, and a httle sugar. Mix well together, then add the 
yolk of an egg, the jam, and the juice of the lemon. Stir well until thoroughly 
mixed. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, cut it into squares 2 inches in size, 
divide the mixture into equal portions (as many as there are squares of pastry). 
Roll these pieces out similar in shape to the puff-paste, brush some white of egg round 
the edges of the pastry, place a piece of the raspberry paste on each square of pastry, 
roll up carefully, and leave the ends open. Put the rolls on a baking-sheet, the 
side where the rolls join downwards, place in a hot oven, and bake. When nearly 
done, brush over with white of egg, sprinkle with castor sugar. Dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,401. PARISIAN TARTLETS. 

\ lb. puff-paste. | 1 white egg. | sugar. | jam. 

Make some puff-paste, roU into a thin strip, fold in half, cut out some shapes 
with a round or oval cutter, brush over the top of each with white of egg, sprinkle 
with castor sugar, bake in a hot oven. When cooked, split each in half, spread 
one half with any kind of jam, place the other half on the top, press lightly together, 
and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 10 minutes to bake. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,402. RASPBERRY CREAM TART. 

J lb. short paste. | 1 lb. raspberries. | \ gill cream. | sugar to taste. | ^ pint custard (No. 2,247). 

Roll out the pastry, line a shallow pie-dish with it, pick the raspberries, put them 
into the pie-dish, add sugar to taste, cover the top with the rest of the pastry, but 
the edges of the pastry should not be closely fastened. Put into a moderate oven, 
and bake until the pastry is lightly coloured and the fruit cooked. Have ready 
\ pint of custard, mix with it \ gill of cream. Take the pie out of the oven when 
done, Uft the crust, pour in the custard on the top of the fruit, put the top on again, 
let it get cold, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 pint milk. 

2 ozs. butter, 
a little nutmeg. 



2,403. CHEESE CAKES 

i tablespoon ful 

rennet, 
puff-paste. 



essence of lemon or 

vaniUa. 
a few currants. 



legg. 

2 ozs. sponge-cake. 

2 ozs. castor sugar. 

Put the milk into a stewpan, make it lukewarm, blood heat, then add the rennet 
Let it stand at the side of the fire until the curd is firm. Strain it, so as to remove 
the whey, put the curd into a basin, add the butter and sugar, stir in the well- 
beaten eggs, and mix all well together. Stir in a Httle grated nutmeg, a few drops 
of lemon or vanilla essence, the currants cleaned, and the sponge-cake previously 
rubbed through a sieve. Mix thoroughly. Roll out some puff-paste, line some 
patty-pans with it (this is best done by cutting out the pastry with a cutter a size 
larger than the pans), fill with the mixture, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake in 
a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 703 

2,404. FRUIT RISSOLETTES. 

J lb. puff-paste. | jam. | 1 white of egg. | water icing (No. 2,176). | red-currant jelly. 

Roll out the pastry (it should be about the thickness of a florin), have a cutter 
2 inches in diameter, put in the centre of each round a small piece of any kind of 
jam, wet round the edge, place another round on the top, press the edges together. 
Put them on a baking-sheet, and brush over with white of egg. Cut out a httle 
ring of paste for each round, and fix in the centre. Bake in a moderate oven 
When cooked, take up, and pour over them some water icing. Let them get cold, 
and then put a round of red-currant jelly in each. Dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 15 minutes to bake. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,405. VOL AU VENT DE FRUITS. 

I lb. puff-pastry (No. 2,185). | mixed fruits. | sugar to sweeten. | 1 glass white wine. 

Prepare the puff-paste, give it six turns, fold in three, and cut it out into a large 
round or stamp it out with an ornamental cutter. Mark the centre of the pastry 
with a smaller cutter to form the lid, leaving 1 inch all round, place the shape on a 
baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven a golden colour. When done, take it out of the 
oven, put it on a sieve to cool. Lift the cover carefully, and put aside. Scoop out 
the soft inside from the case. Have ready some different kinds of fruit, such as 
apricots, peaches, pineapple, etc., make a syrup of water and sugar, add the wine 
to it, and boil until it is thick. Put the fruit into this, and cook for a few minutes 
over the fire. Arrange the fruit in the vol au vent, pour the syrup over it. If the 
fruit is large, it should be divided into pieces. This sweet can be served hot or cold. 
If served cold, whipped cream is an improvement ; if hot, it could be decorated with 
a meringue and ornamented with glace cherries and pieces of angelica, cut in the 
shape of leaves. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 45 minutes after the pastry is made. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,406. PASTRY CUSTARDS. 

I pint milk. ^ lb. puff-paste 3 eggs 

I oz. cornflour. 



lemon, 
nutmeg. 



(No. 2,184). 1| ozs. sugar. 

Put the cornflour into a basin, add sufficient milk to it to make it into a thin 
paste. Put the remainder of the milk into a stewpan with the sugar, and bring to 
the boilj then add the cornflour. Cook a minute, then take it off the fire, and let 
it cool. Beat the eggs well, add them to the cornflour, mix in the sugar and the 
grated lemon-rind. Roll out the pastry, and line some patty-pans with it. Fill 
with the custard mixture three parts full, grate over each a little nutmeg. Put the 
custards into a moderate oven, and bake a golden brown colour. They will take 
fifteen to twenty minutes to cook. When done, turn them out of the pans, and 
serve them hot or cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,407. STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. I ^ lb. butter. | 2 eggs. | 2 ozs. castor sugar. | strawberries. | cream. 
Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter until like breadcrumbs, mix in the 
sugar, beat the eggs, and stir into the other ingredients. Mix all together into a 
paste, turn it out on to a floured board, and knead it until it no longer chngs to the 
hand. Roll it into a rather thick round, and bake in a moderate oven a light brown. 
Take the stalks off some strawberries, mash them with a fork, sweeten to taste. 
When the pastry is done, let it cool, then spht it in half, cover the lower half thickly 
with the strawberries, put the upper half of the pastry upon them, cover the top 
PT. IX. 45 



704 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

with more of the strawberries, whip some cream, and cover over with it. Serve 
cold. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,408. FLAN DE PRAISES MERINGUE (STRAWBERRY TART WITH 

MERINGUE). 

^ lb. short paste. ] 1 lb. strawberries. | sugar. | whites of 2 eggs. 

Roll out the pastry, line a flan-ring, place it on a baking-sheet, line it with 
paper, and fill with raw rice. Put into a moderate oven, and bake a golden colour. 
When done, take it out of the oven, Hft out the rice and paper. Take the stalks ofi 
the strawberries, fill the pastry-case with them, and sprinkle sugar over. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix with about 2 ozs. of sugar, put this over the 
fruit, place the case in the oven, and cook for about fifteen minutes. The oven 
should be rather cool. Serve cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,409. APPLE CUSTARD TARTS. 



1 lb. apples. 8 ozs. puff- 



3 ozs. butter. 
3 eggs. 



1 oz. breadcrumbs. 
1 lemon. paste. 2 ozs. sugar. 

Peel and core the apples, cut them up, put them into a stewpan, add a little 
water, place the pan on the fire, and stew until the apples are soft ; then rub them 
through a sieve, grate the lemon-rind, and add it and the strained juice to the 
apples. Stir in the breadcrumbs. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the 
eggs one at a time, beat well, then add the apple mixture. Stir all well together. 
Roll out the puff-paste, line some patty-pans with it, put some of the mixture in 
each, dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes. When done, turn them out of the tins, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,410. GOOSEBERRY CUSTARD TARTS. 

\ pint milk. | 3 eggs. | 4 ozs. sugar. [ \ pint gooseberries. | \ lb. puff-paste. 

Put the milk into a stewpan, add the sugar, and bring to the boil. Beat the 
eggs well in a basin. As soon as the milk has cooled a little, pour it on to the eggs, 
whisking all the time. Put again on the fire to make the custard. It must not boil. 
Pick the gooseberries, put them into a stewpan with a httle water, and, when soft, 
rub them through a sieve. Mix them with the custard, turn into a basin, and let 
cool. Roll out the pastry, line some patty-pans with it, fill them with the custard, 
and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, May and June. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,411. ORANGE CUSTARD TARTS. 

3 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. sugar. | 3 yolks. | 1 orange. | ^ gill cream. | puff-paste. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft, then work in one at a time the 
three yolks of eggs. Beat well, grate the orange-rind, and add it to the other 
ingredients with the strained juice of half the orange. Add the cream, and mix all 
well together. Roll out the pastry, fine some patty-pans with it, fill them ■^dth the 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. When done, turn 
them out of the patty-pans, and serve them hot or cold. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 



TARTS, FRUIT PUDDINGS, AND TARTLETS 705 

2,412. D'ARTOIS OF APRICOT. 

1 lb. puflE-paste (No. 2,185). | apricot jam. | 1 egg. | sugar. 

Roll out the puff-paste (it should have had seven turns), cut the paste in half, 
and put it on to a baking-sheet. Spread over it a thick layer of apricot jam over 
the paste, leaving about 1 inch bare all round. Put the other half of the paste 
over the apricot, press the two halves together at the edge, and cut the paste round 
with a knife. Now mark the top of the paste with the back of a knife in oblong 
shapes, brush it all over with a beaten egg. Put into a good oven, and bake a 
golden colour. When they are done, dredge with castor sugar, and return to the 
oven for a few minutes to melt the sugar. Take out of the oven, and let it get cold, 
then cut them into the oblong shapes, and serve piled on a napkin or dish-paper. 
Serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes after the pastry is made. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,413. APRICOT TART. 



preserved apricots. 
J lb. short paste. 



pinch of ground cinnamon. 

choux pastry (No. 2,186). 



rind of 1 lemon. 
2 ozs. sugar. 

Put half the apricots into a stewpan with the sugar and a little of their juice. 
Put the pan on the fire, and stir until the fruit has become a jam, then remove the 
pan from the fire. Roll out the pastry into a round about 8 inches across, place this 
on a baking-sheet. Have ready-made sufficient choux pastry to form an edge all 
round the ring of pastry h inch high, fill the centre of the pastry with quartered 
apricots, dredge with castor sugar, sprinkle over some grated lemon-rind, put into 
the oven, and bake. When cooked, pour over it the stewed apricots, mix a little 
ground cinnamon with castor sugar, and sprinkle it over the top. Dish the tart, 
and serve either hot or cold. Any kind of fruit can be used instead of the apricots. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,414. POLISH TARTS. 
Jib. puff-paste (No. 2,186). | egg. | sugar. | apricot jam. | raspberry jam. 

Make the pastry, and give it seven turns. Roll it out, and cut into square 
pieces 2 inches each way. Wet the centre of each square with a little water, and 
then fold the corners so that they all meet in the centre of the paste squares. Place 
a small button of pastry in the centre of each, egg over, put into a rather hot oven 
to bake. Just before they are done, dredge with sugar, and glaze in the oven. Put 
a. piece of jam on each fold of the pastry, alternate colours. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required to bake, 15 minutes. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 8 to 10 tarts. 

2,415. CORNETS A LA CR^ME. 

i lb. puff -pastry (No. 2,185). | jam. | pistachio-nuts. | 1 gill cream. | sugar. | vanilla. 

Roll the puff-paste into a long strip about | inch in thickness, cut it into long 
pieces 1 inch wide. Have ready six comet tins, grease them Ughtly, and then roll 
a strip of pastry round each, beginning at the tip, and letting each round overlap 
the last by about half its width. Take care that the join is underneath the tin, or 
the appearance of the cornets will be spoilt. Lay them on a baking-tin, brush each 
with water, and then dust with castor sugar. Place in a hot oven, and bake them 
for about ten minutes. When done, remove the tins, while still hot ; place the 
pastry on a sieve to cool. Whip the cream firmly, sweeten to taste with sugar, and 
flavour with vanilla. When the pastry is quite cold, put a spoonful of jam at the 
bottom of each, and fill with the whipped cream. Sprinkle a few chopped pistachio- 
nuts on the top of each. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes, exclusive of making the 
pastry. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 6 cornets. 

45—2 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

ENTREMETS FROIDS (COLD SWEETS) 

JELLIES 

2,416. LEMON JELLY. 

IJ pints water. J pint lemon -juice. 6 ozs. loaf sugar. 

rind of 2 lemons. 2 ozs. gelatine. whites and phells of 2 eggs. 

Peel the lemons very thinly, put the rind into a large stewpan, add the water, 
lemon-juice, gelatine, and sugar. Whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, crush the 
shells, and mix them with the rest of the ingredients. Stir over the fire until the 
gelatine is melted, then whisk until the mixture boils ; draw it to the side of the 
fire, and let it stand for five minutes. Scald a clean cloth, place it on a soup stand, 
and pour the jelly through. It must be put through the cloth several times until 
it runs clear. The jelly must not be stirred or interfered with during the process 
of straining. When the jelly has run through the cloth, it can be used as desired ; 
either put into a mould and allowed to set, or used for garnishing other sweets. 

N.B. — The amount of gelatine used for jellies must be regulated by the weather. 
If hot, more gelatine will be required ; in very cold weather, less might be used. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for li-pint mould. 



2,417. WINE JELLY FROM GELATINE. 



1 J pints water. 
1 gill sherry. 



2 whites and shells 



J gill brandy. 6 ozs. loaf sugar, i rind of 2 lemons. 

H gills lemon -juice. 2 cloves. I 2 ozs. gelatine. of eggs. 

Peel the lemons very thinly, put the rind into a stewpan ; add the water, lemon- 
juice, sugar, gelatine, and cloves ; whip the whites of the eggs, and crush the 
shells. Add these to the rest of the ingredients, place the pan on the fire, and stir 
until the gelatine is melted ; then whisk until it boils, add the wine and brandy,, 
bring to the boil again, draw to the side of the fire, and let it stand for a few minutes. 
Strain through a clean cloth, through which some boihng water has been passed. 
The jelly must be put backwards and forwards through the cloth until the jelly runs 
through clear. The jelly must on no account be stirred while running through the 
3loth, or it will be cloudy. As soon as the jelly is strained, it can be used as desired. 
In summer, more gelatine may be necessary, in order to set the jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for l|-pint mould. 



2,418. WINE JELLY FROM CALF'S FEET. 



2 feet. 
2 lemons. 



2 whites of eggs. 
4 ozs. loaf sugar. 



6 pints cold J- gill brandy. 



2 egg-shells. 

1 gill sherry. water. 2 cloves. 

Wash the feet, chop each foot into three or four pieces, put them into a stewpan, 
cover with cold water, and bring to the boil ; then drain and wipe them, put the- 
pieces into a clean stewpan, cover with the six pints of cold water. Bring to the 
boil, and simmer gently for four or five hours ; skim it while boiling, strain off the 
stock, and let it stand until quite set ; take off every particle of fat from the stock 

706 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



707 



before it is used. Peel the lemons very thinly. Put into a stewpan with the stock 
the strained juice of the lemons, the sugar, cloves, the whipped whites of eggs, and 
the shells crushed. Place the pan on the fire, and whisk until it boils. As soon as 
it boils draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the hd, and let it stand for fifteen 
minutes. Then strain the jelly through a jelly-bag or clean cloth, which has first 
had boihng water run through it. After the jelly is strained, add the wine and 
brandy. The jelly is then ready to mould. Rinse out a jelly-mould with cold 
water, pour in the jelly, and set. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 5 hours to make the stock. (Seasonable all 
the year. Sufficient for l^pint mould. 

2,419. ORANGE JELLY. 



i pint orange-juice, 
rind of 3 oranges. 



3 ozs. loaf sugar. 
1^ ozs. gelatine. 



i pint water. 
1 gill sherry. 

Peel the rind of the oranges very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the 
white pith, as this would make the jelly bitter. Put the rind of the oranges, the 
water, sugar, and gelatine into a saucepan ; stir over the fire until the gelatine is 
ratlted, then let it simmer very gently for ten minutes. Add the orange-juice and 



■ 


^^H 


1^ 


^^•^hbH^^H^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^HI 


M^i^^ 


BBl'-.^i''"*". 


^^^r' 




■Mpii 


,.,^HHkI^H 




vH 


Hi 


|K3.i^?i^^^V^^KBE- ^^^^^H 


^■^^. 


' - ^^^^U:!.^|^fl^^^H 


B 


^Kfe»- jt- ■•.^' ^ ^.^^^^^^^^^1 


I^B 


IH 



Fia. 181. — Orange Jelly. 



the sherry. Rinse a jelly-mould in cold water, and strain the jelly into it through 
a fine strainer. Put in a cool place to set. Turn out on to a glass dish, and serve. 
Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



2,420. CLARET JELLY. 



1 pint claret. 

J pint lemon-juice. 

2 cloves. 



1 tablespoonful red-currant 

jelly, 
rind of 2 lemons. 



f pints water. 
6 ozs. sugar. 
2 ozs. gelatine. 



cochineal. 

2 whi tes of eggs. 

2 egg-shells. 



Peel the rind of the lemons very thinly, put it with the lemon-juice into a large 
stewpan, add the sugar, water, cloves, gelatine, and claret. Whip the whites of 
the eggs and crush the shells ; mix these with the rest of the ingredients. Place 
the pan on the fire, stir until the gelatine is melted, then whisk until the jelly boils ; 
draw to the side of the fire and let it stand for five minutes ; strain through a clean 
cloth that has had boiling water run through it. If necessary, to improve the colour, 



708 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

add a few drops of cochineal. When strained, the jelly can be moulded, and when 
set is ready for use. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required to make, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for IJ-pint mould. 

2,421. MARASCHINO JELLY. 
1 quart lemon jelly (No. 2,416). | 1 liqueur glass maraschino. 

Prepare the lemon jelly. As soon as it comes to the boil, add a liqueur glass of 
maraschino, boil up, draw to the side of the fire, and let it stand for five minutes, 
then strain off in the usual way. Use as directed. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable aU the 
year. Sufficient for l^pint mould. 



2,422. PORT-WINE JELLY. 



J pint port-T;\ine. 
\ pint water. 



1 tablespoonful red- 
currant jelly. 



1 oz. gelatine. 
1 lemon. 



2 whites of 
■ egg. 



1 oz. sugar. 

2 egg-shells. 



Put the water, sugar, gelatine, and red-currant jelly into a stewpan, peel the 
lemon very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the white pith. Squeeze the 
juice from the lemon ; add these to the rest of the ingredients. Whip the whites 
of the eggs and crush the egg shells ; put them into the pan. Stir over the fire until 
the gelatine is melted, then whisk until it boils. As soon as it boils, pour in the 
port wine, bring to the boil again, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Pour the 
jelly through a jelly-bag or a clean cloth until clear. The bag or cloth must be 
scalded before use. If the jelly is not a good colour, a few drops of cochineal can 
be added before straining. Rinse a jelly-mould in cold water, fill with the jelly, 
and put in a cool place to set. When firm, dip the mould in a basin of warm water, 
and turn out quickly on to a glass dish. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,423. BLANC-MANGE. 
1 pint milk. | 1 lemon. | \ oz. gelatine. | 2 ozs. sugar. | compote of fruit. 

Peel the rind of the lemon very thinly, put it into a saucepan with the milk 
and sugar. Put the pan on the side of a slow fire, and let stand until the milk is 
well flavoured with the lemon. Add the gelatine, and stir over the fire until it is 
melted. Turn the mixture into a basin, and stir it occasionally until cold and begin- 
ning to set, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out in cold water. When 
set, turn out into a glass dish, and pour round it a compote of fruits. Any other 
flavouring, such as vanilla, orange flower water, almond, etc., can be used instead 
of lemon if preferred. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at aU times. Suffi- 
cient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,424. APPLE JELLY. 



2 lbs. apples. I 6 ozs. loaf 
1 oz. gelatine, j sugar. 



3 gills water, 
cochineal. 



rind of 1 lemon, 
juice of 2 lemons. 

Peel the apples, core them, and cut in small pieces. Put these into a stewpan 
with the loaf sugar, lemon-rind, and the water ; place on the fire, and cook until 
the apples are tender, then rub them through a fine sieve. Melt the gelatine in a 
little water, add it to the apple puree, stir in the lemon-juice, colour a pretty pink 
with a few drops of cochineal, or it can be left the original colour. Rinse out a 
fancy mould in cold water, pour in the jelly, and let set. When ready to serve, 
dip it quickly into hot water, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 709 

2,425. EGG AND LEMON JELLY. 
4 egg-yolks. | 5 ozs. sugar. | 2 lemons. | 1 pint water. | pistachio-nuts. | | oz. gelatine. 
Peel the lemons very thinly, squeeze the juice into a basin, add the lemon-peel 
and ^ pint of water. Melt the gelatine in the other ^ pint of water over the fire. 
When melted, add the sugar. Beat the yolks well, and strain to them the lemon- 
juice water. Mix well together, then put into a saucepan, and stir until nearly 
boiling. The eggs must be cooked, but they must not actually boil, or they will 
curdle. Next strain in the gelatine and sugar. Rinse out a mould with cold 
water, pour in the mixture. When set, dip the mould into hot water, turn out 
quickly on to a glass dish, and sprinkle the top with chopped pistachios, and serve. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes to make. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,426. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 
2 lbs. green gooseberries. | 1 pint water. | ^ lb. loaf sugar. | 1 lemon. | 1 nz. gelatine. 

Put the gooseberries into a stewpan, add the water, sugar, and the rind of the 
lemon ; let it stew over the fire until the fruit is reduced to a pulp ; rub through a 
fine sieve Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain it into the gooseberry puree, 
add the lemon-juice and a little spinach greening to make it a nice colour. Turn 
the jelly into one large mould, or into several small ones. Put on ice to set. When 
ready to serve, dip in hot water quickly, and turn on to a glass dish. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable, April to 
June. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,427. GELEE A LA FRANCAISE (JELLY A LA FRANCAISE). 



1 quart lemon jelly 
(No. 2,416). 



silver-leaf. 



vanilla, 
sherry. 



spinach greening. 

gold-leaf. 1 tablespoonful brandy. 

Divide the jelly into three equal parts. To one part put a few drops of spinach 
greening, so as to give it a pale green tint ; flavour with the brandy. Into one of the 
other parts stir some broken-up gold leaf, and to the third part some silver leaf. 
These two latter ingredients must be added when the jelly is cold and just beginning 
to set. Flavour the part garnished with gold leaf with sherry, and the silver leaf 
with vanilla. Put a layer of the green jelly at the bottom of a fancy mould ; let 
this set, then add an equal layer of the gold-leaf jelly. When this is firm, pour in 
some silver-leaf jelly, each layer to be of the same depth. Continue in this way, 
alternating the jelUes until the mould is filled up. Put on ice to set, then turn out 
in the usual way, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,428. GEL^E A LA CONSTANTINE. 
IJ pints wine jelly (No. 2,418). 12 halves preserved apricots. whipped cream. 



1 oz. almonds. 



sugar. 



pistachio-nuts. 

Obtain a tin or bottle of apricots, place the fruit on a sieve, and let them drain ; 
then cut each half-apricot into three or four pieces. Blanch the almonds and a 
few pistachio-nuts, chop them rather coarsely, mix together. Pour into an orna- 
mental border-mould a thin layer of jelly. When this is set, sprinkle the bottom 
with the chopped almonds and pistachios, pour in a little more jelly. When this 
is set, arrange over it a layer of the strips of apricots, then more jelly, then the 
almonds and pistachios, and continue in this way until the mould is full ; each layer 
must set before the next is put in. Put the mould on ice or in a cool place until 
quite firm. When required to serve, dip the mould into warm water, turn out 
quickly on to a dish, whip sufficient cream to fill the hollow in the centre of the 



710 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

mould, sweeten and flavour to taste, fill the cavity with this, piling it up high ; 
sprinkle with a few chopped pistachios, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,429. GELEE NAPOLITAINE. 

1 quart wine jelly 1 2 whites of eggs. 8 pistachio-nuts. cochineal. 

(No. 2,418). I a few glace cherries. vanilla essence. spinach greening. 

Line a quart jelly-mould with wine jelly in a thin layer. Cut the cherries into 
small pieces, blanch the pistachio-nuts, and chop them finely. Whip the whites of 
eggs stiffly, melt \ pint of jelly, pour it into a basin, add the whites of the eggs, 
and whip all together on ice until it commences to set. Divide this into three 
equal parts. Colour one part a pretty pink colour with cochineal, stir in the cherries, 
and put into the Hned mould in a layer, so as to fill one third ; leave one part white 
and flavour it with vanilla. Put this on the top of the red as soon as the latter is 
set. The third part is coloured green with spinach greening ; add the chopped 
pistachios, and put the green on the top of the white. When this is set, put over 
the top a layer of wine jelly ; place on ice and let set. When ready to serve, turn 
it out and serve, with chopped wine jelly round the base. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

BAVAROIS AND CREAMS 

2,430. BAVAROIS A LA VANILLE. 

3 gills milk. I vanilla. 1 gill cream. wine jelly (No. I cherries. 

IJ ozs. sugar. I 4 yolks of eggs. J oz. gelatine. 2,418). | pistachio -nuts. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan. When nearly boiling, pour it on to 
the beaten yolks of eggs. Return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until the 
eggs are cooked. It must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Pour it 
into a basin and flavour with vanilla. Rinse a jelly-mould with cold water, pour 
in a thin layer of wine jelly. When this has set, decorate the mould with glace 
cherries and chopped pistachio-nuts ; set these in carefully with another layer 
of wine jelly. WTien the vanilla custard is cold, whip the cream sfightly, and stir 
into it. Melt the gelatine in a little water, and add it to the bavarois. As soon as 
the mixture begins to set, pour it into the decorated mould. When quite firm, 
turn it out on to a dish and garnish round with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ to 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,431. BAVAROIS DE BANANES (BANANA CREAM). 

J pint milk. 2 ozs. sugar. J teaspoonful vanilla i 2 gills cream, 

4 yolks of eggs. 3 bananas. essence. I f oz. gelatine. 

Put the milk and sugar into a stewpan ; beat up the eggs in a basin. As soon 
as the milk is hot, stir it on to the eggs. Return to the stewpan, and proceed to 
make the custard, stirring it all the time. The milk and the eggs must not be 
allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. When made, turn into a basin to get cold. 
Melt the gelatine in a little water, and add it to the custard. Peel the bananas, 
and rub them through a hair sieve. Mix the puree into the custard. Whip the cream 
lightly, and add to the rest of the ingredients ; flavour with the vanilla. Mix all 
well together, and stir occasionally until the mixture begins to set. Pour it into 
a wetted fancy mould ; put on the ice or in a cool place to set. When firm, dip the 
mould in warm water, turn out on to a dish, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 28. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 711 

2,432. BAVAROIS AUX P^CHES. 



^ pint milk. 
4 yolks of eggs. 



1 oz. gelatine. J pint cream. pistachio-nuts. 

I pint p«ach puiree. wine jelly. 2 ozs. sugar. 



Line a fancy mould with a thin layer of wine jelly, blanch and chop a fewpistachio- 
nuts, decorate the bottom of the mould with these, set them in with a few drops 
of jelly, place on ice, and let it set. Put the milk and sugar into a stewpan, beat 
the yolks of the eggs in a basin, and as soon as the milk is hot, pour it on to the 
eggs, return to the stewpan, and proceed to make the custard. Strain it into a 
basin when made, and let it get cold. Melt the gelatine in a little Avater, whip the 
cream lightly, add the peach puree and the whipped crearn to the custard, strain in 
the gelatine, mix all well together. Put the basin containing the bavarois on ice 
or in a cool place, stir it occasionally until it begins to set, then pour it into the 
decorated mould, put on ice. When firm, dip the mould into warm water, turn it 
out on to a dish, and garnish round the base with chopped wine jelly. It is then 
ready to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always, if preserved 
fruit is used. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,433. CR£ME DE PISTACHES (PISTACHIO CREAM). 



2 gills milk. I J oz. gelatine. 
1^ ozs. sugar. | 4 yolks of eggs. 



1| ozs. pistachio-nuts. ^ gill water. 

J pint cream. 



wine jelly. 

Put the h pint of milk into a saucepan with the sugar and put on the fire ; beat 
the eggs well, and as soon as the milk is hot, pour it on to the eggs, whisking mean- 
while. Return the milk and eggs to the pan, and stir over the fu-e until thick ; 
but it must not be allowed to boil. Turn the custard into a basin, and let it get 
cold. Blanch the pistachio-nuts, take off the skins, put the kernels into a mortar, 
and pound them until they become a paste. Whip the cream Ughtly, add this and 
the pistachio-nuts to the custard, melt the gelatine in the water, and strain it into 
the rest of the ingredients ; put on ice until half set, stirring it occasionally. Rinse 
out a mould with cold water, and then with wine jelly, leaving a thin layer of the 
latter in the bottom of the mould ; decorate with chopped pistachio-nuts ; set 
in the decoration with a few drops of wine jelly sprinkled over. When firm, pour in 
the cream, and let it set. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot 
water, and turn on to a glass dish. Garnish the base with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,434. CRfiME AU GINGEMBRE (GINGER CREAM). 

2 ozs. preserved ginger. 1 giU wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

^ gill ginger syrup. J oz. gelatine. 

^ pint cream. pistachio-nuts. 

Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar, beat the yolks of eggs in a basin, 
and when the milk is hot, pour it on to the eggs, stirring meanwhile. Return to 
the saucepan, and stir until it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour into a basin 
and let it get cold. Melt the gelatine in the ginger syrup, whip the cream, stir it 
into the custard, strain in the gelatine. Have ready a fancy mould decorated with 
pieces of preserved ginger and pistachio-nuts, the mould first to have a layer of 
wine jelly in the bottom, set in the decoration with a Httle more jelly. After the 
mould is decorated, cut up the remainder of the ginger into small dice, and add it 
to the cream. Mix all well together, and turn it into the prepared mould. When 
set, dip in hot water, turn out, garnish round the base with chopped wine jelly, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 



I pint milk. 
4 yolks of eggs. 
1 oz. castor sugar. 



712 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,435. CR£ME DE MARRONS (CHESTNUT CREAM). 

24 chestnuts. 1 gill water. 3 yolks of 1 gill cream. I ^ oz. gelatine, i cherries. 

J pint milk. 4 ozs. sugar. eggs- vanilla. | wine jelly. | pistachio-nuts. 

Make a slit in each chestnut, put them into the oven until the shells can be 
removed easily, take ofi both the shell and inner skin, cook the chestnuts in boiling 
milk and water until quite tender. Strain away the liquor, and rub the chestnuts 
through a hair sieve. Make a custard with the milk and eggs ; pour it into a basin 
as soon as it thickens, and leave to cool. Boil the sugar and water until it is a 
thick syrup, stir it on to the chestnuts. Set a little wine jelly in a mould, decorate 
with glace cherries and chopped pistachio-nuts ; pour a little more jelly on these 
decorations. Whip the cream, stir it into the custard, also the sieved chestnuts 
and a little vanilla essence. Melt the gelatine in water, strain it into the chestnut 
cream. As soon as it begins to set, pour into the decorated mould. Turn out 
when firm, and garnish with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable, November 
to February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,436. CREME DE CHOCOLAT (CHOCOLATE CREAM). 



\ pint milk. 
2 yolks of eggs. 



2 ozs. sugar. 

3 ozs. Mexican chocolate. 



1 oz. gelatine. 
^ pint cream. 



1 gill wine jelly, 
few pistachio-nuts. 



Take one half of the milk, put it into a stewpan with the sugar, put it on the 
fire, and when hot pour it on to the well-beaten yolks of eggs ; return to the sauce- 
pan, and thicken without boiling. When the custard is made, pour it into a basin 
and let it get cold. Cut up the chocolate and melt it in the remaining half of the 
milk, boil it, and then add to the custard. Melt the gelatine in a little water, and 
strain into the other ingredients. Whip the cream Hghtly and not too much, stir 
it into the custard and chocolate, put it on ice or in a cool place, and let it half set. 
Rinse out a fancy mould with cold water, and then with liquid wine jelly, leave a 
thin layer of the jelly at the bottom of the mould, let this set, then decorate with 
chopped pistachio-nuts ; sprinkle a few drops of jelly over the decoration in order 
to set it, then pour in a little more jelly, so as to well cover. When set, pour in the 
prepared cream, put on ice, and, when firm, turn it out on to a glass or silver dish. 
Garnish round the base with chopped wine jelly, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes to make. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,437. CR£ME DE VELOUR (VELVET CREAM). 



^ pint cream. 
1 glass sherry. 



\\ ozs. sugar. 
\ oz. gelatine. 



^ lemon- 
rind. 



1 gill water, 
wine jelly. 



pistachio -nuts, 
cherries. 



Put a thin layer of melted wine jelly into a fancy mould ; when this is set, 
decorate with chopped or shredded pistachio-nuts and glace cherries. Whip the 
cream, add to it the grated rind of half a lemon and the sherry. Melt the gelatine 
in 1 gill of water ; strain this into the cream after it has cooled a little. Pour the 
cream into the decorated mould, and let it get firm. When set, turn out and 
garnish round the base with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes to make. Seasonable ail tha 
year. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,438. gAtEAU AUX PRUNES. 

1 lb. prunes. | 1 lemon. ^ oz. gelatine. cochineal. 

3 ozs. castor sugar. | 1 glass port-wine. 3 gills water. 1 gill cream. 

Put the prunes into a saucepan, add the sugar, lemon-rind, and water, and cook 
them until soft. Strain the prunes, put the syrup back into the saucepan, put in 
the gelatine, and melt it ; add the wine, lemon-juice, and a few drops of cochineal. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



713 



Take the stones out of the prunes, crack some of the stones and take out the 
kernels, put these and the prunes into the Hquor ; simmer gently for fifteen minutes. 
Rinse out a border-mould with cold water, fill it with the prune mixture, and let it 
set. When the shape is set, turn it out on to a dish, and fill the centre with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour to make. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



3 ozs. rice. 
1 pint milk. 



1 gill wine jelly, 

2 ozs. sugar. 



2,439. RIZ A L'IMPERATRICE. 

cherries. I 1 lemon. 

1 gill cream. | syfup. 



mixed fruits. 

1 glass white wine. 



^ oz. gelatine, 
angelica. 

Put the milk, sugar, and thinly peeled lemon-rind into a saucepan, bring it to 
the boil, then sprinkle in the rice. Cook until it is tender and has absorbed the milk ; 
the rice must be kept stirred as soon as it begins to thicken, or it will burn. Take out 
the lemon-peel, and turn the rice into a basin. Put a thin layer of wine jelly into a 
fancy border-mould ; when this is set, decorate tastefully with cherries and angelica. 




Fig. 182. — Riz a l'Impeeateicb. 



Set in the decoration with another layer of wine jelly, added by degrees. Melt the 
gelatine in a little water, stir it into the rice ; whip the cream and mix with the 
other ingredients. As soon as this preparation is cold, put it into the decorated 
mould, put on ice, and let set. Have ready some fruits — i.e., grapes, apricots, 
oranges, bananas, etc., according to the season — prepare them, put them into a 
syrup, flavoured with wine, place on the fire in a saucepan, and bring to the boil ; 
then turn the fruit into a basin, and let it get cold. When the rice is ready to 
serve, turn it out of the mould, and fill the centre with the fruit, after they have 
been drained from the syrup. Stand on ice till required, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 28. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
oient for 6 or 7 persons. 

2,440. STONE CREAM. 

i lb. apricot jam. | 1 lemon. | 1 pint cream. | ^ oz. almonds. | J oz. isinglass. 

Put the apricot jam in a layer in a glass dish ; pour over this the juice of a lemon, 
and a Httle of the grated rind. Put the cream and isinglass into a saucepan, stir 
it over the fire until it is dissolved ; let it cool, stirring occasionally ; pour it over the 



714 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

apricot jam, and put aside to get quite firm. Blanch the almonds, cut them in 
strips, and decorate the cream With them. This sweet is best made the day before 
it is wanted. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes to make. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2.441. CREME NAPOLITAINE (NEAPOLITAN CREAM). 

1 pint milk. 2 whole eggs. 4 yolks of I vanilla. 1 h ozs. gelatine. 

2 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. chocolate. eggs. I 1 gill cream. | gill sherry. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan ; when nearly boiling, pour it on to the 
well-beaten eggs. Return to the saucepan and stir over the fire until the eggs 
are cooked ; it must not be allowed to boil. Turn the custard into a basin, and 
leave it to cool. Whip the cream slightly, and stir into the custard. Divide this 
into three equal portions ; colour one pink with cochineal, and flavour it with 
vanilla ; leave one yellow, and flavour with sherry ; the last one is flavoured with 
the chocolate, which has been melted in as little milk as possible. Stiffen each of 
these custards with | oz. gelatine, melted in a little water. Rinse a jelly-mould 
with cold w^ater, then place it in a basin of ice, laying it almost on its side. Pour 
in about | gill of the yellow custard, allow this to set ; then turn the mould to the 
opposite side, and pour in \ gill of pink custard. When this is set, again reverse 
the mould and put in | gill of chocolate custard. Continue filling with alternate 
layers in this manner until the mould is full. When quite set, turn out and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2.442. CREME A LA PRINCESSE (PRINCESS CREAM). 



3 ozs. mixed preserved ^ pint cream. 

^ oz. gelatine. 



fruits. 



2 



1 tablespoonful brandy I 1 oz. sugar, 
or sherry. | wine jelly (No. 2,418). 



Rinse a jelly-mould with cold water, pour into it a layer of wine jelly ; when this 
is set, decorate the mould with some of the preserved fruits, having the colours 
as varied as possible ; set these with a little more wine jelly. Whip the cream until 
the marks of the whisk can be seen. Cut the rest of the preserved fruit into small 
pieces, add them to the whipped cream. Melt the gelatine in a little water, add 
the sugar, and let it dissolve over the fire ; strain this into the cream, and mix in 
the brandy also. Stir this occasionally until it begins to set, then turn it into the 
prepared mould. This cream should not be put into the mould too soon, or the 
fruit will sink to the bottom. When quite firm, dip it into a basin of warm 
water, turn out on to a dish, and garnish round with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

2,443. CREME D'ORLEANS. 



1| gills cream. 

\\ gills raspberry puree. 



^ oz. gelatine, j 2 ozs. red-currant ^ gill port-wine, 

cochineal. 



I oz. sugar. | jelly. 

Line a plain charlotte-mould with a thin layer of wine jelly. Rub sufficient 
raspberries through a hair sieve to make H gills of puree. Whip the cream, add 
the raspberry pulp to it. Melt the gelatine in a little water, add the sugar, and 
dissolve over the fire. Strain into the raspberry cream, and colour with a few drops 
of cochineal. Put a layer of this at the bottom of the lined mould ; when it is 
quite set, place a tumbler or small jar in the centre, and pour the rest of the rasp- 
berry cream round it. Melt the red-currant jelly, add to it 1 gill of wine jelly and 
the port-wine. Stir this until it begins to set ; then remove the tumbler by filling 
it with warm water, and pour the prepared jelly in the centre. Put this in a cool 
place to set, turn out, and garnish round with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable in June and 
July. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 




6n 



(U 

D 
nj 

M 

0) 
CO 

• p^ 

O 

u 

> 

0) 
(U 

-o 
S 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



715 



2,444. CR£ME a la GENOISE (GENOESE CREAM). 



IJ gills milk. 
3 yolks of eggs. 



2 ozs. sugar. ^ orange. 

1^ gills cream. I oz. gelatine. 



-^ gill white wine. 
2 ozs. macaroons. 



1^ ozs. glace fruits 

1 gill wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

Decorate a fancy mould with wine jelly and glace fruits, cut up into convenient 
pieces ; set the decoration with wine jelly, put on ice to set. Crush the macaroons, 
put them into a small basin, and pour the wine over them. Cut the remainder of 
the fruit into strips or dice. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan ; beat the egg 
yolks in a basin, add the milk to them as soon as it is hot, stirring meanwhile ; 
return to the saucepan, and stir until it thickens. Pour into a basin, and let cool. 
Peel the orange very thinly, then either cut it in very fine "strips or chop it finely. 
Melt the gelatine in the juice of the orange ; whip the cream. As soon as the 
custard is cool enough, stir in the soaked macaroons, the fruit, and the orange rind ; 
strain in the gelatine, and add the whipped cream ; mix all well together. When the 
mixture begins to set, pour it into the decorated mould, and put on ice until quite 
firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, turn out, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 183. — Creme a la Genoise. 



1 pint wine jelly (No. 2,418). 
f pint milk. 
4 yolks of eggs. 



meringue mixture (No. 

2,457). 
vanilla essence. 



2,445. CR£ME harlequin AUX MERINGUES (HARLEQUIN CREAM 

WITH MERINGUES). 

2 gills cream. cochineal. 

2 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. chocolate. 

2 ozs. gelatine, lemon. 

Rinse out a quart mould with cold water, then at the bottom put a thin layer 
of wine jelly ; place this on ice, and let it set. Put the milk in a saucepan with the 
sugar ; beat the eggs in a basin, and, when the milk is hot, but not boiling, pour it 
on to the eggs ; return to the saucepan, and make the custard. When done, turn 
it into a basin to get cold. Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain this into the 
custard ; whip H gills of cream lightly, and stir it in. Divide this mixture into three 
equal parts ; colour one part with cochineal a pink colour ; melt the chocolate in 
a little water, and add it to the second part ; the third part leave plain. Flavour 
the pink custard with lemon, and the yellow with vanilla. As soon as the wine 



716 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



jelly is set at the oottom of the mould, put in a layer of one of the custards. When 
that is set, a layer of jelly ; then another coloured custard. Continue in this way 
until the mould is full, taking care that each layer is set before putting in the next. 
Put on ice until thoroughly set. Make with the meringue mixture some small 
round meringues, shaping them by means of a forcing-bag, bake, and let them get 
quite cold. Turn the shape out on to a dish, mount the meringue on the top in a 
pyramid, decorate between with whipped cream through a forcing-bag. Garnish 
the base with chopped jelly, and serve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 

2,446. CR£ME DE MOCHA A LA CHANTILLY. 



3 ozs. castor sugar. 
1^ ozs. gelatine, 
pistachio-nuts. 



1^ gills strong coffee. 
8 marrons glaces (chest- 
nuts). 



cherries, 
angehca. 
wine jelly (No. 2,418). 



1 pint milk. 

6 eggs. 

I pint cream. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan ; beat the eggs in a basin, leaving out 
two of the whites. As soon as the milk is hot, pour it on to the eggs, stirring 
meanwhile ; return to the saucepan, and make a custard, taking care not to let it 
boil. When made, pour it into a basin to cool. Melt the gelatine in the coffee, 
strain it into the custard ; cut up three marrons glaces into dice, whip the cream, 
and stir these into the custard. Put into a cool place to partly set. Rinse out a 
fancy mould with wine jelly, also a round, flat cake-tin, an inch larger all round 
than the fancy mould. Decorate the latter with pistachios and cherries according 
to taste ; set in the decoration with a little more wine jelly. When this is set, fill 
it with the cream. Put the remainder of the mixture into the flat mould. Let 
these both set ; then turn out the larger shape on to a round dish, and place the 
smaller one on the top. Decorate round the base of the ornamental mould with 
marrons glace, cherries, angelica, and whipped cream through a forcing-bag. 
Serve as soon as ready. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 



2,447. CR£ME DE VANILLE AUX MARRONS (VANILLA CREAM WITH 

CHESTNUTS). 



\ pint milk. 
4 ozs. sugar, 
cochineal. 



1 oz. gelatine. 
\ pint cream. 
1 gill water. 



vanilla. 

wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

whipped cream. 



6 marrons glaces. 

angelica. 

4 yolks of eggs. 



Line a large charlotte-mould with a thin layer of wine jelly round the sides only. 
Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and 2 ozs. of sugar. When made, turn 
it into a basin, and let it get cold ; flavour with vanilla. Whip lightly 1 gill of cream, 
stir it into the custard. Melt ^ oz. of gelatine in a little water, strain into the custard, 
colour a pretty pink colour with a few drops of cochineal. Insert a tumbler in the 
lined charlotte-mould, and fill round with the pink vanilla cream. Prepare the 
chestnuts, cook, and then pass them through a fine sieve. Make a syrup with 
2 ozs. of sugar and a gill of water, boil until thick, add it to the chestnuts puree ; 
flavour with vanilla, add 1 gill of cream, lightly whipped, and J oz. of gelatine 
melted in a Httle water. Take out the tumbler by filling it with hot water ; fill the 
cavity thus formed with the chestnut cream. When the cream is set, turn out on 
to a dish, garnish the top with whipped cream arranged in a pjrramid ; decorate 
this with marrons glaces, leaves of angelica, and whipped cream through a forcing- 
bag. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



in 



2,448. CR£ME DE RIZ RENVERSEE (MOULD OF RICE CARAMEL). 
1 pint milk. | 1 oz. castor sugar. ] lemon-rind. | 2 ozs. ground rice. | 2 ozs. loaf sugar. | ^ gill water. 

Put the water and loaf sugar into a stewpan together, bring it to the boil, and 
cook quickly until it becomes a dark golden colour. When done, turn this into a 
dry timbale-mould. Put the milk into a saucepan, add the thinly-peeled rind of 
half a lemon and the castor sugar ; when the milk boils, sprinkle in the rice, and 
cook for about ten minutes. Take out the lemon-rind, and as soon as the caramel 
in the mould is set pour in the rice mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam 
for ten minutes. Let it get cold, and when quite set turn out the pudding on to a 
dish. The caramel will fall round it and form a sauce. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 




FiG. it^i,— Creme a la Marguerite. 



2,449. CREME A LA MARGUERITE. 



3 ozs. chocolate. 
2 gills milk. 



1 gill cream. 
h OZ. gelatine. 



Avine jelly (No. 2,418). 
h pint vanilla cream. 



2 yolks of eggs. almonds. 

2 ozs. sugar. angelica. 

Line a round or oval timbale-mould with a thin layer of wine jelly. Blanch the 
almonds, cut them in strips, and with them decorate the mould, arranging the strips 
of almonds in the form of marguerite flowers. Cut some thin strips of angehca to 
represent the stalks, and some pieces for leaves ; arrange these at the bottom of the 
mould so as to form a spray. Sprinkle some wine jelly over the decoration to 
set it, then put over a thin layer of the same ; let it get quite firm. Chop the 
chocolate, melt it in 1 gill of milk, boil it until quite smooth. Make a custard with 
the remaining gill of milk, the yolks of the eggs, and the sugar ; when made, strain 
the custard into a basin, add the chocolate mixture. Melt the gelatine in a httle 
water, add it to the preparation. As soon as the decorated mould is ready, place a 
tumbler in the centre, or, if an oval tin is being used, a smaller tin of the same 
shape should be used ; fill with ice, and pour round the chocolate cream just as it is 
beginning to set. When this is firm, take out the tin or tumbler in the centre, and 
fill the cavity thus formed with vanilla cream. Put on ice until quite set. Turn out 
and garnish with chopped jelly round the base. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, li hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



718 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,450. CR£ME a la ROMAINE (ROMAN CREAM). 



f pint milk. 
4 yolks of eggs. 
3 ozs. loaf sugar. 



vanilla. 

1 oz. gelatine. 

3 ozs. sweet almonds. 



^ oz. bitter almonds. 
I pint cream, 
glace cherries. 



vsine jelly (No. 

2,418). 
pistachios. 



Line a fancy mould thinly with wine jelly ; when this is set, decorate it with 
glace cherries and blanched and chopped pistachio-nuts. Blanch, peel, and chop 
the almonds, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven, and cook until a golden 
colour. Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and almonds, bring slowly to 
the boil. Beat the eggs in a basin, stir the hot milk on to them, return to the sauce- 
pan, and make a custard in the usual way. Then strain through a fine sieve into 
a basin. Melt the gelatine over the fire in a little water, whip the cream lightly ; 
add these to the custard ; flavour with vanilla. Stir until the mixture is just 
beginning to set ; turn into the decorated mould, and put on ice until firm. Turn 
out and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient^ 
for 4 persons. 




Fig. 185. — Cremes a la Princesse. 



2,451. PETITES CRIMES A LA PRINCESSE (LITTLE CREAMS, PRINCESS 

STYLE). 



\ pint wine jelly (No. 2,418). 
angelica. 



I pint cream, 
gelatine. 



oz. 



^ gill water. 
I glass sherry. 



a few drops of vanilla. 
1^ ozs. castor sugar. 



Line some small, fluted moulds with wine jelly at the bottom only. When this 
is set, decorate them with strips of angelica, arranged in the moulds in the form 
of a star. Set these with a little more wine jelly. Melt the gelatine in the water ; 
when dissolved, stir in the sugar and the wine. Whip the cream, flavour it with a 
few drops of vanilla essence. Stain in the gelatine mixture, mix all together. 
As soon as the decoration in the little moulds is set, pour in the cream, which 
should be just beginning to set. Put on ice until quite firm. To turn out, dip 
the little moulds into warm water, dish them, and garnish round with chopped 
wine jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 6 small moulds. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



719 



2,452. CRfiME A LA FLORENTINE. 



1 pint milk. 
6 yolks of eggs. 
3 whites of eggs. 



2 ozs. loaf sugar. 
1 gill water, 
vanilla. 



^ oz. almonds. 
1 gill cream, 
pistachio-nuts. 



1 oz. castor sugar, 
maraschino or white 



wme. 



Boil the milk and keep it hot. Put the sugar and water into a small stewpan, 
and cook until it becomes a golden brown ; then pour this into the hot milk, and 
cook over the fire until it is quite dissolved. Beat the eggs in a basin, strain the 
milk on to them, stirring all the time. Blanch the almonds, chop them coarsely, 
put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in the oven a light brown ; put these into a 
mortar, and pound well, with 1 oz. of sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence ; 
then rub them through a fine sieve. Stir this into the milk and eggs. Butter a 
timbale-mould, and pour the mixture into it. Place in a steamer, with a piece of 
buttered paper over the mould, and steam gently for thirty to forty minutes. Let 
the custard get cold, then turn it out of the mould on to a cold dish. Whip the 
cream rather stiffly, flavour it with maraschino or wine, sweeten to taste, and 
decorate the top of the custard mould with this. Blanch and chop a few pistachio- 
nuts, sprinkle these on the cream, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,453. CEUFS A LA NEIGE. 



2 whites of eggs. 
4 ozs. castor sugar. 



1 pint milk, 
vanilla essence. 



2 ozs. loaf sugar. 
4 yolks of eggs. 



Put the milk, loaf sugar, and a few drops of vanilla essence into a saute-pan, 
bring to the boil. Whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly with a whisk, then stir 
in the castor sugar quickly and hghtly. Shape these with a dessertspoon, drop 
them into the boihng milk, and poach them, turning over that they may be evenly 
cooked. When done, take up carefully and drain on a sieve. Strain the milk 
into a stewpan, beat up the yolks of the eggs, and make a custard with them. 
Let this get quite cold. Dish the meringue eggs in a deep glass or silver dish, pour 
the custard over, and serve very cold. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,454. BAVAROIS A LA DIPLOMATE. 



1 pint milk. 
6 yolks of eggs. 
3 ozs. sugar. 



^ pint cream. 

vanilla. 

2 ozs. chocolate. 



1 gill strawberry puree. 

2 ozs. gelatine, 
cherries. 



1 gill wine jelly (No. 

2,418). 
angelica. 



Put into the bottom of a fancy quart mould a thin layer of jelly ; when this is set, 
decorate with cherries and angelica, sprinkle in a Httle more jelly to set the decora- 
tion. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, beat the yolks of eggs in a basin, 
and pour the hot milk on them. Return to the saucepan and make the custard. 
When done, turn it into a basin, melt the gelatine in a little water, strain it into the 
custard. Melt the chocolate in a httle milk or water. Divide the custard into 
three equal parts, flavour one part with vanilla, the next part with the strawberry 
puree, and the third with the chocolate. Whip the cream, and divide it equally 
amongst the three preparations. Put into the decorated mould a layer of the 
vanilla custard. When this is set, pour in a layer of the strawberry custard, then 
the chocolate. Continue in this way until the mould is full, taking care that the 
layers are of equal depth and each one set before the next is put in. When quite 
firm, dip in warm water and turn out on to a dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufiicient for 6 persons. 



PT. X. 



46 



720 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,455. PETITES TIMBALES DE GENOISE EN GELEE. 



1 J pints wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

angelica. 

glace cherries. 



1 tablespoonful liqueur. 
1 teaspoonful castor sugar, 
J oz. gelatine. 



1 small genoise cake. 
1 or 2 slices pineapple, 
1 gill cream. 

Line some dariole-moulds at the bottom only with some wine jelly in a thin 
layer. When set, decorate wdth glace cherries and angelica, sprinkle over a few 
drops of wine jelly to set the decoration. Cut the cake into rounds, a size smaller 
than the moulds, and about 1 inch thick. One of these should be allowed for each 
timbale. Chop the pineapple very finely, mix in the sugar and a Uttle Uqueur, 
or any flavouring preferred. Cut the rounds of cake into three sUces, put a rathei 
thick layer of the pineapple mixture over each slice ; put the slices together again. 
Melt the gelatine in 1 pint of wine jelly ; when melted, let it cool a little, then stir it 
into the gill of cream. Mix well together, put a layer of this in the moulds over 
the decorated part, and when set, put in the cake. Fix this in with some more of 
the jelly cream, then fill the moulds with the latter, arranging it so that the pieces 
of cake are in the centre of the moulds. Put the moulds on ice or in a cool place. 
When quite firm, dip the moulds in warm water, turn out quickly, arrange them 
in a circle on a dish, and garnish the centre and round the dish with chopped pink 
jelly. To make the pink jelly, melt some of the same jelly that was used for the 
sweet, colour it a pretty shade of pink with a few drops of cochineal, and let it set, 
then chop and use. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 9 small moulds. 

2,456. BORDURE DE MARRONS A LA CREME (CHESTNUT BORDER WITH 

CREAM). 



\ lb. chestnuts. 


J pint wine 


vanilla. 


6 marrons glaces 


3 ozs. loaf sugar. 


jelly. 


castor sugar. 


cherries. 


1 gill water. 


J pint cream. 


2 ozs. chocolate. 


J oz. gelatine. 



Split the chestnuts, put them into a moderate oven until the shells and inner 
skins can be removed, then boil the chestnuts in milk until tender, rub them through 
a sieve into a basin. Put the loaf sugar and water into a saucepan and simmer for 
ten minutes ; add this syrup to the puree of chestnuts. Melt the gelatine in a 
Httle water, whip \ a gill of cream, stir both these into the chestnut puree. Melt 
the chocolate in a little water, add the wine jelly to it, let cool a httle, hne a border- 
mould with this. This process is best done by turning it on ice until the mixture sets 
round the bottom and sides. As soon as the mould is ready, turn into it the chest- 
nut mixture, which should be just beginning to set. Put on ice, and when quite 
firm, turn out on to a dish. Whip the remainder of the cream stiffly, flavour with 
vanilla, and sweeten with a little castor sugar. Arrange this in the centre of the 
border in pyramid form, arrange all round the base of the cream a circle of marrons 
glace and cherries alternately, and garnish round the base of the border with 
chopped jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,457. MERINGUES. 

3 whites of eggs. | 6 ozs. castor sugar. | pinch of salt. 

Put the whites of eggs into a basin, add a pinch of salt to them, and whisk them 
to a very stiff froth. Mix in the sugar quickly and lightly ; do not stir too much. 
Cut some grease-proof paper or foolscap into strips, arrange these on boards (the 
lids of boxes will answer for this purpose). Put the mixture out on to the paper 
with a dessertspoon, get it a nice shape, continue until the mixture is used up, 
keeping them all the same size and shape. The mixture could also be put into a 




E 

U 

u 



(0 

(U 

3 

c 

'u 
(U 



1-1 

3 



C/3 



ENTHEMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 721 

forcing-bag and forced out on to the paper. Whichever way is chosen, dust 
them over with castor sugar, and put them into a very cool oven until diy. When 
done, take them gently off the paper, scoop out the centre carefully, turn them 
upside down on the board, dust with sugar, and return to the oven to dry. When 
ready for use, fill \vith whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured, 
and place the shells together in pairs. These shells can be kept for some time in 
a tin box if not required. They must only be filled with cream just before they are 
wanted, or they will become soft. 

Average cost of shells, 4d. Time required, 10 minutes to make ; time to bake, 
uncertain. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 16 or 18 single shells. 



2,458. DARIOLETTES AUX MARRONS. 
2 ozs. flour. 



legg. 

salt. 

vanilla. 



1 tablespoonful milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls apricot jam. 

i lb. chestnuts. 



1 gill syrup. 
1| gills cream, 
maraschino. 



1 dessertspoonful salad-oil. 
pistachio-nuts. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, add a Uttle salt, break the egg into the centre of the 
flour. Mix the salad oil with the milk, stir the egg and flour together, add the 
oil and milk, and beat well until quite smooth. Make some fat hot, dip a dariolette- 
fryer into the fat, and then into the batter, so that the outside of the mould is 
weU covered ; plunge into the fat, and fry a golden colour. When done, take the 
case off the mould carefully. Fry six cases, or as many as there is batter for. Cook 
the chestnuts, then rub them through a wire sieve ; put them into a basin, and mix 
the syrup with them and 1 gill of whipped cream. Divide the apricot jam into the 
cases, putting a layer at the bottom of each ; fill up with the chestnut mixture. 
Whip the remaining | gill of cream stiflBly, and decorate the top of each case with 
it through a forcing-bag ; sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts, and serve cold. 
Instead of chestnuts, ground almonds could be used. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 6 cases. 

N.B. — A dariolette- fryer is a fluted dariole-mould, with a long handle attached to it. 

2,459. SHREWSBURY MERINGUES A LA CREME. 

J teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 
1 yolk of egg. 

Cream the butter and sugar in a basin until soft, add the yolk of egg, and beat 
well. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together, stir it into the butter, also the 
grated rind of the lemon. Add a httle milk, if necessary. It should be a stiff 
paste. Turn it on to a floured board and roU out thinly, cut into rounds with a 
pastry cutter about 3 inches in diameter, place them on a floured bakdng-tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for five or ten minutes. These biscuits must not be 
allowed to bro\^'n ; they should be a fawn colour. When they are baked, take 
six of them, and use for the sweet ; the remaining biscuits can be kept in a tin for 
future use. Whip the whites of eggs very stiffly, arrange them round each biscuit, 
making a wall of white of egg. Dust it over with castor sugar, and put into a moderate 
oven to set the meringue arid to let it colour a httle. Take them off the tin, place 
on a sieve, and allow them to get perfectly cold. Whip the cream stiffly, sweeten 
it to taste, flavour with vanilla, and colour a pretty pink with a few drops of cochi- 
neal. Put this into the centre of each biscuit, making it appear above the wall of 
meringue. Decorate each one with glace cherries and angehca. Soak a i-inch 
stick of angehca in hot water until it will bend without breaking, then cut it into 
strips, and place one across each sweet to form a handle. Dish up on a lace paper, 
and serve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, li hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

4G— 2 



2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. sugar. 
4 ozs. flour. 



4 whites of eggs. 

angelica. 

cherries. 



1^ gills cream. 

vanilla. 

1 lemon. 



722 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,460. GENOESE BASKETS. 



3 eggs. 

2 ozs. butter. 

3 ozs. flour. 



4 ozs. sugar, 
raspberry jam. 
pistachio-nuts. 



desiccated cocoa- 
nut, 
cherries. 



angelica. 
1 gill cream, 
vanilla. 



\ teaspoonful baking- 
powder, 
apricot jam. 

Well grease a deep cake-tin, and line it with one thickness of greased paper. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Break 
the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and whisk them over a saucepan of hot water 
until quite thick and creamy (about ten to fifteen minutes). Then take the basin 
off the hot water, and stir in the flour and butter very hghtly ; turn the mixture 
into the prepared tin, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
When baked, turn out of the tin, remove the paper, and place the cake on a sieve 
to cool. The cake should be about 1^ inches in depth. When quite cold, cut out 
into ovals with a pastry cutter, remove some of the centre with a smaller cutter, 
in order to make a deep hollow in each. This quantity of cake ought to cut six 
ovals. Rub a little raspberry jam through a hair sieve, and spread it on the sides 
of three of the baskets, and then dip them into desiccated cocoanut. Prepare the 
other three baskets in a similar manner with apricot jam and finely chopped pistachio- 




FiG. 186. — Genoese Baskets. 

nuts. Place a teaspoonful of either kind of jam in the hollow of each case. Wliip 
the cream rather stiffly, sweeten it to taste, and flavour with vanilla essence. Pile 
this on the top of the jam in each basket, decorate with glace cherries cut in small 
pieces and small leaves of angelica. Take a stick of angelica, about 4 inches in length, 
and soak it in hot water until it will bend without breaking. Then cut it into thin 
pieces, and place one across each basket to form the handle. Dish them up on a 
lace paper alternately, first a white and then a green one. If possible, it is better 
to make the cake for these baskets a day before they are required, as in that case 
it can be cut much more neatly than if it is new. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes after the cake is made. Season- 
able all the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 baskets. 

2,461. SYLLABUBS. 

1 pint cream. | 1 lemon. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 2 whites of eggs. | 1 wineglass brandy. | 1 wineglass sherry. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Mix together the sugar, juice of the 

lemon, brandy, and sherry ; stir the cream into this ; then add the eggs and a little 

of the lemon-rind grated finely. Whisk this mixture well, and remove the froth 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



723 



as it rises ; put it on a hair-sieve to drain. Fill some custard glasses rather more 
than half full with the mixture, put the froth on the top, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



I 2 ozs. almondfl. 
The cake should 
; as it runs round 



2,462. TIPSY CAKE. 

1 large sponge cake. | 1 gill sherry. | 1 gill brandy. | 1^ pints custard. 

Take a sponge cake that has been baked in a fancy mould, 
be stale. Put this on a dish, and pour over the brandy and sherry 
the dish, take it up and pour over again ; continue in this way until the liquor is 
all used up. Blanch the almonds, cut them in strips, and stick them all over the 
cake. Pour the custard round the cake when dished up. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 or 8 persons. 



2,463. POUDING A LA DIPLOMATE. 



J pint milk. 
3 yolks of 



1 white of egg. 

2 ozs. sugar. 
1 gill cream. 



glace cherries. 
6 savoy biscuits, 
angelica. 



wine jelly (No. 

2,418). 
f oz. gelatine. 



vanilla. 

2 ozs. macaroons. 

1 glass Marsala. 



Crush the macaroons, pour the wine over them, and let them soak in it until 
required. Put the milk and sugar into a stewpan, beat up the eggs in a basin. 
As soon as the milk is hot, pour it on to the eggs, return to the saucepan, and make 
the custard. Turn this into a basin to cool. Line a plain charlotte-mould with 
mne jelly. When set, decorate it with cherries, angehca, and the savoy biscuits. 
Set the decoration with a httle more jelly. When this is firm, cover over with a 
layer of jelly cream — that is, ^ giU of cream mixed with sufficient jelly to cover 
the mould with a thin layer. Put on ice. Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain 
into the custard, whip the remainder of the cream, and stir in lightly ; flavour 
the custard mixture with vanilla, and add the soaked macaroons. Mix all well 
together, and when commencing to set, pour it into the prepared mould. When 
quite firm and set, turn it out on to a dish, and garnish round with chopped jelly. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

2,464. ORANGE ICING. 

^- lb. icing sugar. | orange-juice. 

Sieve the icing sugar through a fine sieve into a basin, strain the orange-juice. 
and add sufficient to the icing sugar to make it the consistency of cream. Use ar. 
directed. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 1 cake. 

2,465. GATEAU ST. HONORE. 



J lb. puff-pastry (No. 

.2,185). 
2 ozs. butter. 



4 ozs. Hour. 
^ pint water. 
2 whole eggs. 



2 yolks of eggs, 
creme St. Honor6 
(No. 2,467). 



glace fruits. 

2 ozs. loaf sugar. 

^ gill water. 



Roll out the pufE-paste, about ^ inch thick, stamp out a round about 10 inches 
■veide. Put this on a baking-tin. Put the butter and | pint of water into a saucepr.n. 
bring to the boil, then stir in the flour very quickly ; cook the mixture until it leavoi 
the sides of the pan clean, let it cool, then stir in the eggs one at a time ; beat well, 
put some of this mixture, when cool enough, into a forcing-bag, and force it round 
the edge of the pastry, which should be first wetted with a little water, so as to form 
a border 1 inch high and about 1 inch wide. Prick the bottom of the pastry with 
a fork, and bake in a moderate oven ; it will take fifteen to twenty minutes to cook. 
With the rest of the mixture make some small balls ; bake these in a cool oven. Put 



724 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



the 2 ozs. of sugar into a small stewpan, add the water, and reduce until it becomes 
a light golden colour. Dip each ball into the sugar, holding them with a skewer ; 
fix these on the border, place a glace cherry on the top of each, and a cherry between 
each ball at the base, fill the centre of the cake with the creme St. Honore, pihng it 
high in the centre. Serve cold. 



2,466. MELON EN SURPRISE. 



' eggs. 

8 ozs. castor sugar. 

6 ozs. flour. 

4 ozs. butter. 



\ teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 

cocoanut or pistachio- 
nuts. 



almond paste (No. 2,180). 
orange icing (No. 2,464). 
orange cream (No. 2,506). 
spinach greening. 



apricot jam. 
cherries, 
angehca. 
whipped cream. 



Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar to them, melt the butter in a small 
saucepan, sieve the flour with the baking-powder. Place the basin containing the 
eggs and sugar on a saucepan of hot water, and beat until of the consistency of thick 
then take it off the water, and stir in quickly the flour and melted butter. 



cream 




Fig. 187. — Melon en Surprise. 



Grease two melon-moulds, fill these, and put the remainder of the mixture into a flat 
cake-mould ; bake these in a moderate oven. When done, turn out on to a sieve, and 
let them get cold. Scoop out the centre of the two melon cakes, fill with orange 
cream, and let them set. Put the two halves together, press them so that they stick 
together and so form a whole melon. Cut a slice off one end to make it stand. 
Coat the melon all over with orange icing and let it set. Cut out a round of the 
bottom cake just large enough to fit the melon, then carefully scoop out the centre ; 
fill that also with the orange cream. Sieve some apricot jam, and put a thin layer 
of it round the sides of the cake, sprinkle thickly with chopped pistachio-nuts or 
cocoanut. As soon as the cream in the cake is set, place the melon on the top, where 
the incision was made. Make a little almond paste, colour it green with spinach 
greening, shape this into leaves, and form a stalk ; arrange this on the top of the 
melon. Put some whipped cream into a forcing-bag, and decorate round the base 
of the melon where it joins the cake with it. Garnish also with cherries and leaves 
of angelica. Dish up and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



'•IZ 



\ pint milk. 



castor sugar. 



1 lb. ground almonds. 

2 eggs. 



2,467. CR£ME ST. HONORE. 

1 oz. flour. vanilla. 

^ gill cream. a few drops of ratafia. 

Mix the sugar, flour, and milk together to a smooth paste in a basin, turn into a 
stcvvpan, place on the fire and cook for a few minutes, then add the eggs and cook 
them without boihng ; stir in the almonds and the flavouring. Turn into a basin 
and let it cool, then stir in the whipped cream. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the j^ear. 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 



2,468. RIZ A LA MALTAISE (MALTESE RICE) 



3 ozs. rice. 
1 pint milk 



1 oz. sugar. 
4 oranges. 



4 ozs. loaf 
sugar. 



1 gill water. 
1 gill cream. 



1 gill port-wine jelly 
(No. 2,422). 



J oz. gelatine, 
pistachio-nuts. 



Put the milk and 1 oz. of sugar into a saucepan ; when boiling, sprinkle in the 
rice, and stir over the flre until the rice is tender and has absorbed the milk ; then 
add the gelatine, and turn it into a basin to cool. Whip the cream slightly and add 




Fig. 188. — Riz a la Maltaisk. 



to the rice, also the port-wine jelly and the pulp of one orange freed from skin and 
pips. Stir this occasionally until it begins to set, then pour into a jelly-mould, and 
put aside in a cool place. Peel the remaining oranges, remove all the pith, and then 
divide into pieces. Boil the loaf sugar and water to a syrup, put in the oranges, 
and cook for a few minutes. Let this get quite cold ; then turn out the rice shape, 
and garnish it with the oranges and a few chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



RATAFIA BASKET. 



2,469. 

ratafias. 

I lb. loaf sugar. 

Put the loaf sugar and water into a saucepan, place it over the fire, and boil 
to 310° Fahr. Remove at once from the fire, and place the saucepan in a basin of 



1 gill water. 
\ pint cream. 



any kind of 
fruit. 



vanilla, 
sugar. 



726 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



cold water for a minute, to prevent the syrup cooking any longer. Have ready 
a cake-tin lined with oiled paper. Dip the ratafias in the syrup, cover the 
bottom of the mould with them, and then Une the sides in the same manner, letting 
the ratafias touch one another. This process must be done quickly. Lay two 
separate semicircles of the ratafias, dipped in the syrup, on an oiled tin, making 
each ratafia touch the next. When these are set, fix them by means of a little 
syrup at opposite sides of the basket. These are to represent the handles. When 
tiie basket is firm, lift it out of the tin, and place on a dish. Just before serving 
fill the centre with any kind of fruit, and pile the top with whipped cream that has 
been sweetened and flavoured. 

Average cost, uncertain, according to the kind of fruit used. Time required, 
1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 




Fig. 189. — Gateau Surprise. 



2,470. GATEAU SURPRISE (SURPRISE CAKE). 



eggs- 


3 ozs. flour. 


mixed fruits. 




1 glass maraschino or white 


ozs. sugar. 


pinch of baking- 


syrup. 




wine. 


ozs. butter. 


powder. 


royal icing (No. 


2,178). 


chocolate icing (No. 2,177). 



Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar to them. Put the butter into a 
small stewpan, and melt it. Sieve the fiour and baking-powder together. Put the 
basin containing the eggs and sugar over a saucepan of hot water, and beat with a 
whisk until the mixture is the consistency of thick cream. Take the basin off the 
water, and stir in Mghtly the flour and the melted butter. Pour into a greased 
timbale-mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. When 
done, turn out the cake on to a sieve, and let it get cold. Cut a slice off the top of 
the cake, scoop out the inside so as to leave a case. Have different kinds of fruit, 
according to the season ; cook them a httle in syrup flavoured with maraschino 
or wine, fill the centre of the cake with this, put the slice back that was cut off. 
Stand the cake on a wire tray, and coat it all over with chocolate icing. When this 
is set, decorate it tastefully with royal icing through a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe 
attached. Dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost, uncertain, according to the fruit used. Time required, \\ hours. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 727 

2,471. GATEAU A LA POLONAISE (POLISH CAKE). 

3 eggs. I 3 ozs. flour. red-currant jelly. ^ pint cream. 

3 ozs. sugar. | ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. pistachio-nuts. vanilla. 

Well butter a plain charlotte-mould. Break the eggs into a basin, add the 
sugar, and beat over a saucepan of hot water until the mixture is thick and creamy. 
Take the basin off the hot water, and stir in the flour and baking-powder sieved 
together. Stir hghtly, pour into the tin, and bake in a cool oven for about thirty 
minutes. Take it out, and let it cool on a sieve. When quite cold, cut the cake 
through in horizontal shces about ^ inch thick. Spread each shce with a layer of 
red-currant jelly and whipped cream. Put the cake together again, and cover all 
over with a thin layer of whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla and sweetened to 
taste. Put the rest of the whipped cream into a forcing-bag with a rose-tube, 
and decorate the gateau with it. Blanch, peel, and chop a few pistachio-nuts, 
sprinkle these all over the cream, and then place on a dish and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 or 7 persons. 



6 sponge cakes (stale), 
raspberry jam. 
1 pint milk. 



2,472. TRIFLE. 

4 yolks of eggs. i vanilla. 

2 whites of eggs, i | pint cream. 

1 oz. sugar. I sherry. 



pistachio-nuts. 
J lb. mixed macaroons and 
ratafias. 



Put the milk and sugar in a saucepan, beat the eggs in a basin ; when the milk 
is hot, pour on to the eggs ; return to the saucepan, and cook over the fire without 
boiling. Pour into a basin to cool, flavour with vanilla. Cut the sponge cakes 
(Id. ones) in halves, spread thickly with jam, and put them in a deep dish, pihng 
them as high as possible, and placing macaroons and ratafias between each layer. 
Pour over them some sherry, about three or four tablespoonfuls. Pour the custard 
over, and put aside to get quite cold. Whip the cream rather stiffly, cover the 
trifle with it, and ornament with a few ratafias and chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 10 persons. 



FRUIT ENTREMETS— POMMES (APPLES) 

2,473. POMMES A LA ROYALE. 

6 apples. I cochineal. 1 pint blancmange (No. I angelica. 

1^ gills syrup. | vanilla. 2,423). 1 whipped cream. 

Peel the apples, which should be all of the same size and well shaped, cut off 
a third of each, and scoop out the insides so as to form cases. Cook these in the 
syrup, which should be flavoured with vanilla and coloured pink with cochineal ; 
the apples must not be allowed to get too soft. When done, take them up and let 
them get cold. With the pulp scooped out from the centre of the apples make a 
puree, sweetened and flavoured ; mix it with an equal quantity of whipped cream, 
and fill the apples with this. On the top of each arrange some whipped cream, 
using a forcing-bag for the purpose. Cut pieces of angehca to form handles, and 
fix one over the top of each apple. Set the blancmange in a flat cake-tin, about 
1 inch in thickness ; when quite firm, turn it out and cut it in rounds, one for each 
apple. Place these in a circle in a round dish, with an apple on the top of each, 
fill the centre of the dish with whipped cream, garnish with angehca, and serve. 
(See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, H hours. Seasonable, September to May 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



728 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,474. POMMES A LA CREME. 



8 small cooking 6 ozs. sugar, 



apples. 



1 lemon. 



J pint water. I red-currant jelly. 
I pint cream. | pistachio-nuts. 



Peel and core the apples. This must be done carefully so as not to break the 
apples ; they must be kept whole. Put the water, sugar, and the thinly-peeled 
rind of the lemon into a stewpan, and boil until it becomes a syrup. Strain this 
when done into a baking-tin, place the apples in it, cover with a buttered paper, 
and cook in the oven until the apples are tender. Take up the apples, place them 
on a sieve to get cold. Whip the cream stiffly, put it into a forcing-bag with a fancy 
pipe ; fill the apples with red-currant jelly so that it stands above the apple ; pipe 
them all over with the cream, which can be sweetened and flavoured to taste. 
Dish up ; decorate them with chopped pistachio-nuts. If any cream is left, arrange 
it in a pile in the centre of the dish and the apples round. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,475. FLAN DE POMMES FROID, NINON. 

\ lb. pastry. \\ gills cream. | 9 ozs. sugar. angelica. cochineal. 

10 cooking apples. h pint water. 1 1 lemon. vanilla. 1 clove. 

Line a flan ring with the pastry, fill it with raw rice, and bake a pale colour. 
Turn it out on to a sieve to cool, then carefully remove the rice. Peel the apples, 
cut in quarters, and remove the cores. Put the water, 6 ozs. of sugar, and thinly- 
peeled rind of lemon into a stewpan, and cook until it becomes a syrup. Put into 
this six quarters of apples, cook gently until they are tender ; lift out the apples, 
and let them get cold. Colour the syrup with cochineal, put into it six more quarters 
of apples, and cook them carefully until tender ; these quartered apples must not 
be allowed to break. Cut up the rest of the apples, add to them a little water, 
3 ozs. of sugar, and the clove, stew over the fire in a stewpan until quite soft. Turn 
them into a basin, and let them get cold. Whip the cream, and stir 1 gill of it 
into the apples ; mix together, and fill the flan with this preparation, piling it up 
high in the form of a dome. Arrange on this the quartered apples, putting the 
white and red alternately. Put the remainder of the cream into a forcing-bag 
or paper cornet with a fancy pipe, and decorate the pyramid between the apples 
with it. Place here and there some pieces of angelica, cut in the shape of leaves, 
and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 

2,476. POMMES A LA FLORENTINE (APPLES, FLORENTINE STYLE). 



8 small cooking apples. ^ pint water 



8 ozs. sugar. 



\ lemon. 



1| lbs. chestnuts. 



vanilla. pistachio-nuts, 

apricot jam. f oz. gelatine. 



1 gill cream. 

Make a syrup with the sugar and water, flavour it with lemon-juice. Peel and 
core the apples, taking care not to break them, put them into the syrup, and cook 
gently until quite tender. Take them up, drain thoroughly, and let them cool. 
Cover each apple with a coating of apricot jam, and fill the centres also. Then 
sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts. Make a sUt in each chestnut, and put into 
the oven until the shell and inner skin can be removed. When they are peeled, 
boil them in milk and water until tender. Strain and rub through a fine sieve. 
Mix into this puree some of the syrup that the apples were cooked in, sufficient to 
make it into a soft paste. Flavour with vanilla essence. Whip I gill of cream 
slightly, and stir into the chestnut mixture. Melt the gelatine in a little water, 
strain into the chestnut cream. Rinse out a plain cake-tin with cold water, and 
when the chestnut preparation begins to set, pour into the tin, and put aside to 
set. When quite firm, dip the mould in warm water, and turn it on to a dish. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 729 

Arrange six of the apples on the top of this cream, place the remaining apples on the 
dish at each end of the cream. Whip the rest of the cream rather stiffly, colour it a 
nice pink with a few drops of cochineal ; put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, 
and decorate the apples and the chestnut cream with it, placing a rose of cream 
on the top of each apple and in the spaces between each. 

Average cost, 2s. Cd. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 

2,477. TURBAN DE RIZ AUX POMMES (TURBAN OF RICE WITH 

APPLES). 

4^ ozs. rice. I 1 oz. sugar. [ 1 gill wine jelly (No. 2,418). 6 ozs. loaf sugar. 1^ lbs. apples. 
l| pints milk. I | gill cream, i J gill sherry or maraschino. 1^ gills water. cochineal. 

Put the milk and sugar in a saucepan ; when boiling, sprinkle in the rice, and 
stir over the fire until the rice is tender and has absorbed the milk ; turn it into a 
basin, and mix in the wine jelly and the cream, slightly whipped. If the weather 
is hot, a little gelatine may be required to set the rice. When cool, fill the rice 
preparation into a border-mould, and put aside to set. Make a syrup with the loaf 
sugar and water, add the sherry or maraschino, and colour with cochineal. Peel 
the apples, cut them in quarters, remove the cores, and then cook them in the 
sjTup until tender. Care must be taken that the apples do not break in cooking. 
AVhen tender, put them into a basin to cool. Turn out the rice shape when firm, 
fill the centre with the prepared apples, and garnish the base of the rice also with a 
few of the quarters. Decorate "wath whipped cream through a forcing-bag. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,478. POMMES A LA VIENNOISE. 

6 cooking apples. I water icing (No. glace cherries. 6 ozs. sugar, 

apricot jam. | 2,176). angehca. J pint water. 

Choose apples that are rather small and of equal size, peel them, and remove the 
cores without breaking the apples. Make a syrup with the sugar and water, put 
in the apples, let them simmer gently until they are tender. Take them up, drain 
thoroughly, and allow them to get quite cold ; then coat each with a thin layer of 
apricot jam. Prepare some water icing, flavoured with vanilla, ice the apples 
with this, and put aside to set. If one layer of icing does not cover them well, 
they should be iced a second time. When the icing has hardened, fill the centre 
hollow of each with apricot jam. Place a glace cherry on the top of each, and 
surround it with a circle of angelica ; cut into rounds with a small cutter. Dish them 
on a lace paper, and place large leaves of angelica between each apple, and a few 
round the dish. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable, September to May, 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



J oz. gelatine. , 1 oz. sugar. 

4^ ozs. rice. [ vanilla. 

l| pints milk. pistachio-nuts. 



2,479. POMMES A LA MOSCOVITE (APPLES, MOSCOVITE STYLE). 

8 even-sized 4 ozs. loaf sugar. 

apples. 1 gill water, 

cochineal. 1 gill cream. 

Put the milk and 1 oz. of sugar into a saucepan ; when boiling, sprinkle in the 
rice, and stir over the fire until the rice is tender and has absorbed the milk. Rinse 
out a dariole-mould and a cake-tin with cold water. Fill the dariole-mould three- 
parts full with the rice, and put the rest into the cake-tin. Press them both well 
into the moulds, and put aside to get quite cold. Peel and core the apples without 
breaking them. Cut off about one-third of the apple from the top of six of them, 
and then carefully remove some of the centre, in order to make a large hollow in 
each. Make a syrup with the sugar and water, flavour it with vanilla, and colour 



730 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



with cochineal. Put the apple-cases in this, and cook very gently until tender. 
Take them out, drain, and allow to cool. Stew the remaining apples and the 
trimmings with a Httle water and sugar until tender, then rub through a hair sieve. 
Stir ^ gill of whipped cream into this puree, melt the gelatine in a httle water, and 
strain into the apple cream. When this is nearly set, fill the apple-cases, pihng 
it up in the centre. Turn out the large rice-mould on to a dish, and place the 
smaller one in the centre of the large one. Arrange the apples on the rice in a circle, 
with one mounted on the small rice-shape in the centre. Whip the cream stiffly, 
put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate the apples with it. Sprinkle 
a few chopped pistachio-nuts on the top of each. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1| to 2 hours. Seasonable, September to 
May. Sufficient for 6 persons. 









«; 




^^[>x 


1 "^* 


'*"**^"*^''" '--*-, 




'% 


\mff*r^' ^jmKKt0^' 


^^IHH^HHP^^^5^flli^^^ ,. 


1 


^^ 


^HHHHMWHH^/'... 



Fig. 190. — Pouding Diplomate aux Pommes. 



2,480. POUDING DIPLOMATE AUX POMMES (DIPLOMATIC PUDDING 

WITH APPLES). 



8 or 9 apples, 
red syrup, 
whipped cream. 



apple jelly. 

angelica. 

pistachio-nuts. 



sponge cake. 

white wine. 

1 tablespoonful apricot jam. 



1 pint custard. 
1 gill cream, 
f oz. gelatine. 

Obtain the apples a good shape and all the same size, peel them, and cut five 
or six to within two-thirds of their height ; scoop out the pulp so that they resemble 
cases. Make a syrup, colour it with cochineal, put the apples into it, and cook 
them, taking care not to let them get soft. Make an apple jelly with the pulp 
and rest of apples, mix in sufficient cream to make it white, fill the apple-cases with 
this. Put some whipped cream in a forcing-bag and decorate with it ; put across 
each a piece of angelica to form a handle. Make a custard and let it get cold, 
mix in 1 gill of whipped cream, vanilla essence, and the gelatine, melted in a httle 
water ; let this partly set. Break up some sponge cake into pieces, put them 
into a basin, and pour over them some white wine, so as to soak them. When 
the custard is hah set, put half of it into a flat cake-mould, let it set, then put 
over a layer of the cake, and here and there the apricot jam ; pour over the rest of 
the custard, put on ice, and let it set. To dish, turn out the custard shape on to 
a round dish, dress the apples on the top in a circle, fill the centre with whipped 
cream, and decorate with whipped cream through a forcing-bag. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 



.r 




4) 

"5 
1-1 



/C3 

(/) 

o 

'5 

Oh 



ENTREMETS FROIDS (COLD SWEETS) 731 



1^ lbs. cooking { J pint water. 1 lemon. ^ oz. gelatine, 

apples. I 2 cloves. 2 ozs. sugar. ^ pint cream. 



2,481. TIMBALE DE POMMES A LA REINE. 

cochineal. 

wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

Peel and core the apples, cut them up, and put them into a saucepan with the 
water, lemon-rind, cloves, and sugar ; when the apples are cooked, rub them through 
a hair sieve. Melt the gelatine in a httle water over the fire, strain it into the apple 
puree. Divide this into two parts, add a few drops of cochineal to one part, so as 
to colour it a pretty pink colour ; pour this into a flat cake-tin. Mix ^ gill of cream 
with, the other part, so as to make it white ; turn this also into a cake-tin. Place 
these two moulds on ice until set. Coat a plain timbale-mould with a thin layer 
of wine jelly all over. Turn out the two coloured purees on to a board, cut out of 
each a number of stars, using a fancy cutter for the purpose, decorate the lined 
mould with these pieces, arranging them all over the mould in alternate rows ; 
set them in with a little jelly sprinkled over. Place a tumbler in the centre of the 
mould, and fill round with wine jelly. Melt the trimmings of the two purees, keeping 
them separate ; add the remainder of the cream equally between the two ; stir into 
each ^ gill of wine jelly. Take out the tumbler as soon as the jelly is set, and fill the 
hollow thus formed with alternate layers of the two purees, allowing each layer to set 
before the next is put in ; put on ice to set. Turn out when ready, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable, September to May. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

POIRES (PEARS) 



6 savoy biscuits. 

vanilla. 

J gill maraschino. 



2,482. POIRES A LA MARQUISE. 

1 tin Bartlett pears or 4 | burnt almonds (No. 2,164). i angeUca. 

stewing pears. j 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam. f pint cream. 

4 ozs. red-currant jelly. ! IJ ozs. gelatine. | 1 pint custard. 

Make a custard with three gills of milk, six egg yolks and two whites. Add 
sugar to taste. When made, turn the custard into a basin to cool, then flavour 
with vanilla. When the custard is cold, mix with it half the whipped cream and 
the gelatine melted in a little water. Let this get half set. Rinse out in cold water 
a flat cake-tin, 6 inches across. Put half the custard into it, let it set. Break up 
the savoy biscuits into pieces, put them in a basin, and pour over the maraschino ; 
arrange these on the custard in a layer, put the jam here and there over them, 
pour on the rest of the custard, put on ice, and let set. If the fresh pears are used, 
stew them in the usual way until soft, cut them in halves, drain, and place the pears 
on a wire tray. Melt the red-currant jelly, coat the pears thickly with this, sprinkle 
them with chopped burnt almonds. In the end of each half pear place a piece of 
angeHca to represent the stalk. Whip the remainder of the cream until it will stand. 
Turn out the custard shape on to a round glass or silver dish, pile the greater part 
of the whipped cream in the centre, dress the pears standing up round it, leaning 
against the cream ; put the remainder of the cream into a forcing-bag with a rose- 
pipe attached to it, decorate with this tastefully, and the sweet is then ready to 
perve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times, 
if preserved pears are used. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



1 oz. sugar, 
vanilla. 



whipped cream. angelica. 

glace cherries. compote of pears. 



2,483. POIRES A LA FLORENTINE (PEARS, FLORENTINE STYLE). 

4 ozs. florador. 
1 pint milk. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, bring to the boil, sprinkle in the florador, 
and simmer until the florador is cooked and has absorbed the milk. It must be well 
stirred. Rinse a border-mould with cold water, put in the florador, and let it get 



732 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



quite cold. When set, turn out the border on to a dish, dress the compote of pears < 
in the centre, and decorate with whipped cream through a forcing-bag with a 
rose-pipe attached to it, and with glace cherries and angelica. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year, if preserved 
pears are used. Sufficient for 5 persons. 



1 tin Bartlett pears or 

3 stewing pears. 
1 pint custard. 



3 gills cream. 

pistachio-nuts. 

cochineal. 



2 tablespoonfuls 

apricot jam. 
\\ ozs. gelatine. 



1 glass maraschino. 

vanilla, 
cherries. 



2,484. POIRES A LA COMTESSE. 

6 savoy biscuits. 

1 gill Avine jelly 

(No. 2,418). 

As soon as the custard is made, turn it into a basin and let it get cold, then 
flavour it with a few drops of vanilla. Melt the gelatine in a little water, add it to 
the custard, whip 1 gill of cream lightly, stir it into the custard, colour pink with a 
few drops of cochineal. Break up the savoy biscuits into large pieces, soak these 
in the maraschino. Rinse out a flat cake-tin with cold water, put in a layer of the 
custard mixture, let this set, then over that put the savoy biscuits, and here and 
there the apricot jam ; pour in the remainder of the custard, stand on ice until 







^Igll^g 



Fig. 191. — Poires a la Comtessb. 



quite set. Have the pears ready, place them on a wire tray ; mix together the wine 
jelly and \ gill of cream, coat the pears well with this until they are quite white, 
sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts. To dish the sweet, turn out the custard shape 
on to a round dish, whip the remainder of the cream, pile the greater part of this 
in the centre of the flat shape, dress the pears in a circle leaning against it, put a 
little of the whipped cream into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached to it, and 
decorate the sweet with it, using also a few glace cherries for this purpose. Serve 
cold for a dinner sweet. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable all the 
Suflicient for 6 persons. 



year. 



8 ozs. rice. 
1 quart milk. 



\ oz. gelatine. 
1 lemon. 



\ pint cream, 
cochineal. 



2,485. POIRES A LA CONDE (PEARS, CONDE STYLE). 

3 ozs. sugar. I 1 tin Bartlett 
wine jelly. | pears. 

Line a plain border-mould with wine jelly, decorate it with cherries and angelica. 
Put the milk, sugar, and lemon-rind into a saucepan, bring to the boil, sprinkle in 
the rice, and cook until it is tender and has absorbed the milk. When done, turn 



cherries, 
angelica. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 733 

it into a basin to cool, whip Ih gills of cream, add it to the rice, melt the gelatine in 
a little water, and strain in also. When cool enough, line the decorated mould 
with the rice mixture, leaving a hollow in the centre. Cut some of the pears in dice, 
fill the centre with these, cover with more rice, and put the mould on ice to set. 
When quite firm, turn out on to a dish, fill the centre of the border with rice to the 
shape of a pyramid, stand a circle of pears on the border, leaning against the rice, 
put the remainder of the cream, stiffly whipped and coloured pink, into a forcing-bag, 
and decorate with it between the pears and at the top of the pyramid. Ornament 
with cherries and angelica, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 or 10 persons. 

2,486. POIRES SOLFERINO. 
6 stewing pears. 2 gills water. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1^ gills cream. 



1 gill port-wine. 4 ozs. loaf sugar. 



1 lemon-rind. 



vanilla. 



4 ozs. rice. 

Peel the pears, cut them in halves, and remove the cores. Put the water, the 
loaf sugar, rind of a lemon, and the port-wine into a stewpan ; put in the pears and 
stew them until tender. When cooked, place the pears on the ice in a basin to get 
cold. Parboil the rice in boiling water for five minutes. Drain it and put it into 
a saucepan with the milk, bring to the boil, and cook until tender ; stir in the sugar 
and a little vanilla. When cool, mix in 1 gill of whipped cream. Let the rice get 
perfectly cold, then di'ess it on a dish ; arrange the pears on the top of the rice. 
Whip ^ gill of cream, put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate the 
pears tastefuUy with it. The cream should be sweetened and flavoured to taste. 
Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to December. 
Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 

2,487, BORDURE DE POIRES EN GELEE (BORDER OF PEARS IN JELLY), 
preserved Bartlett pears. | wine jelly (N®. 2,418). | claret jelly (No. 2,420). | 1 gill cream. 

Rinse a plain, deep border-mould with cold water, line it with a thin layer of 
wine jelly. Drain the pears well, and then place them standing against the side 
of the mould with the pointed end downwards ; fill the mould with more wine jelly. 
Put in a cool place to set. When firm, dip the mould in warm water, turn out on 
to a dish. Cut a few of the pears in quarters, put them in the centre of the shape. 
Whip the cream rather stiffly, pile this on the top of the pears ; chop some claret 
jelly, put a Httle of it round the base of the whipped cream, and some round the 
dish. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,488. POIRES FROIDS A LA SULTANE. 



genoise oake. 



6 or 8 half-peara. 1 pint milk 



3 ozs. rice. 



2 ozs. sugar. 
1| gills cream. 



apricot jam. 
cochineal. 



1 oz. granulated pistachio-nuts 



sugar. 



lemon-rind. 



Make a genoise cake in a border-mould, bake it, and allow it to get quite cold. 
Rub a little apricot jam through a hair sieve, and chop some pistachio-nuts finely. 
€oat the cake with a thin layer of the jam, then dip it in the chopped pistachios, 
so as to cover it all over with them. Boil the rice in the milk with the lenion- 
rind and 2 ozs. of castor sugar, cook until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed ; 
take out the lemon-rind, and let the rice get cold, then stir into it 1 gill of cream. 
Drain the pears. Dish the border, fill the centre with the rice, pile it up so as to 
form a pyramid, dress the pears on the top of the border, leaning against the rice. 
Put a drop of cochineal into the granulated sugar, mix it about until it is evenly 
■coloured all over a pale pink. Before arranging the pears on the border, dip them 



734 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



in the sugar. Decorate between the pears and on the border with whipped cream 
through a forcing-bag. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, IJ to 2 hours. Seasonable, September 
to December ; if preserved pears are used, all the year. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 



\\ lbs. stewing pears or 1 tin 

Bartlett pears. 
3 ozs. rice. 



1 glass sherry or 

Marsala. 
6 ozs. sugar. 



2,489. BORDURE DE POIRES A LA CR£ME (BORDER OF PEARS WITH 

CREAM). 

\ pint cream, 
pistachio-nuts. 
\ oz. gelatine. 

Peel the pears, cut them in halves, and take out the cores. 
Baucepan, cover with cold water, add half the lemon-rind, 4 ozs 
wine. Put on the fire and cook until the pears are tender, take them up and let 
them get cold, sprinkle them with chopped pistachio-nuts. Boil the rice in the milk 
with the remainder of the sugar and half the lemon-rind, cook until tender, then 
turn it into a basin and let cool. Then mix into it \ gill of whipped cream and the 



1 lemon, 
cherries, 
angelica. 

Put them into a 
of sugar, and the 





r^-'^ 


I 


■■ 


^^^m^%^ 




'1^, 


JET ^»^^^B^^^^^^M^^^^^^^^B 


^^^^^H ^^ 


'"^mLa 


}.9 


^ -^^^^^^^H^^^^^l 


^^^^^^^^^■1 7^ • 


^«kiil 




^^^^^^^■^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H '' 


7^^ 




.. / ^l^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M 


^^HL!^^'' 


b^ .^ • 


/ 


m^^M 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H^K^{- 


Hmgi 


1 


^1 



Fig. 192. — Bokduke de Poieks a la Cr>i.ME. 



melted gelatine. Fill a border-mould with this and let it set. When ready, turn 
it out on to a dish, fill the centre with whipped cream, and arrange the pears in a 
circle on the top of the border. Garnish with cherries and angelica, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, September to 
December, if fresh fruit is used. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



PfeCHES (PEACHES). 



cherries, 
angehca. 



2,490. PECHES A LA NINETTE. 

6 small brandied I 6 macaroons. almond paste, 

peaches. | maraschino. cold custard. 

Take the stone out of the peaches without breaking the peaches more than can be 
helped. Make a small quantity of almond paste, put a piece in each peach in the place 
from which the stone was removed. Soak the macaroons in maraschino, place a peach 
on each, pour over the custard, garnish with glace cherries and angehca, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, August to 
October. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



735 



2,491. COMPOTE DE PECHES (PEACH COMPOTE). 
G or 8 ripe peaches. | f pint syrup. | 1 small glass brandy. 

Skin the peaches. To do this, put them into boiHng water for a second or two, 
then drain and skin carefully. Place the peaches in a dish, pour over the syrup, 
and let them stand until cold. Then dish the peaches in a glass dish, boil up the 
syrup and add the brandy to it ; let this get cold, then pour it over the fruit. Serve 
cold. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, August to October. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 



2,492. MACEDOINE DE PECHES (MACEDOINE OF PEACHES). 



1 tin or bottle preserved 


2 or 3 cooking 


cochineal. 


3 ozs. sugar. 


6 ozs. rice. 


peaches. 


apples. 


vanilla. 


H pints milk. 


rind of 1 


whipped cream. 


wine jelly. 


1 gill syrup. 


^ oz. gelatine. 


lemon. 



Put the milk on to boil with the sugar and the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon. 
As soon as it boils, sprinkle in the rice and cook until it is tender and the milk has 
been absorbed ; the rice must be kept stirred as soon as it begins to thicken. Turn 
it into a basin to cool, then add to it 1 gill of whipped cream and the gelatine, melted 
in a httle water. Turn this mixture into a border-mould, and allow it to set. Drain 
the peaches on a sieve, reserve six or eight, and put the remainder through a sieve. 
After the rice is cooked and the cream added to it, put aside three or four table- 
spoonfuls, mix this with ^ gill of peach puree and | gill of wine jelly ; let this half 
set, then fill the peaches with it. Peel the apples, and with a vegetable cutter 
cut out some small balls ; cook these in a Httle weak syrup coloured pink with 
cochineal ; let them stand in it until cold, cut these in halves, and arrange them round 
the preparation in the peaches with one piece on the top. Brush over with half-set 
jelly. Turn out the rice, mount the peaches on the border, fill the centre with 
whipped cream, and serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 to 8 persons. 

2,493. P£CHES A LA CARDINALE. 



6 peaches. 
^ pint syrup. 



vanilla. 

a few almonds. 



1 tablespoonful red-currant 

jelly. 



J pint raspberry 
puree. 

Skin the peaches, which should not be too ripe, dip them in hot water in order 
to remove the skins. Make the syrup, and flavour it with vanilla ; put in the peaches, 
and cook them. When done, take up and let them get quite cold. Dish them in 
a glass dish. Melt the red-currant jelly, and stir it into the raspberry puree. Cover 
the peaches with this. Blanch the almonds, cut them in strips, and sprinkle them 
over the top. Put the dish on ice or in a refrigerator until required. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. or 4s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,494. CROUTES DE PECHES (PEACH CROUTES). 



3 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 
3 ozs. flour. 



2 ozs. butter. 
^ teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 



black-currant 

jelly. 
a few almonds. 



Grease and paper a deep cake-tin. 



preserved peaches. 
^ gill cream, 
maraschino or sherry. 

Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, 

and beat over hot water until thick and creamy. Melt the butter, add to the eggs, 

also the flour and baking-powder, sieved. Turn the mixture into the tin and bake 

in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, turn on to a sieve to 

cool, then cut into rounds about 3 inches in diameter ; sprinkle them well with 

maraschino or sherry. Drain as many peaches as there are rounds of cake, place 

one. rounded side downwards, on each croute. Fill the hollow of the peach with 

PT. X. 47 



736 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

a round slice of black-currant jelly, sprinkle with a few chopped and browned 
almonds. Whip the cream, put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate 
round the cake with it. Dish up and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 

for 6 croutes. 



2,495. MEDAILLONS DE PECHES A LA TURQUE. 



syrup. 

J pint maraschino jelly 

(No. 2,421). 



mixed fruits. 

1 tin or bottle preserved peaches 
or 6 fresh peaches. 



Melba sauce. 
2 gills cream. 
\ oz. gelatine. 



IJ pints claret jelly 

(No. 2,420). 
angelica. 

Fill a fancy border-mould with the claret jelly. Pour a thin layer of maraschino 
jelly into ten or twelve small medallion or oval moulds. When this is set, decorate 
each with a star and crescent cut out of angelica (the angeUca should be first soaked 
in hot water to soften it), set the decoration in with a httle more jelly, and put on 
ice to get firm. Drain the peaches. Whip 1 gill of cream hghtly, add to it sufficient 
Melba sauce to colour and flavour it nicely. Melt the gelatine in a little water, 
strain it into the cream, stir over ice until it is cold, then put a layer of this over 
the bottom of the decorated moulds ; let it set, then place a half peach in each. 
If too large, cut them to the right size, fill up with the cream mixture, put on ice 
to get firm. Prepare some different kinds of fruit according to the season, mix 
together in a basin, pour over a Uttle syrup, flavour to taste with wine or Hqueur. 
When about to serve, turn out the border on to a dish, fill the centre with the mace- 
doine of fruits, whip the remainder of the cream stiffly, and cover the fruit with it, 
shaping it into a dome. Sprinkle over this some chopped blanched pistachio-nuts. 
Unmould the medaUions, and arrange them on the top of the border in a circle 
touching each other, standing upright against the cream. Garnish round the base 
with chopped maraschino jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 

for 6 to 8 persons. 

N.B.— The Melba sauce, a raspberry puree, is prepared by Mon. A. Escoffier, 
chef of the Carlton Hotel, and is to be obtained in bottles at grocers, stores, etc. 

ABRICOTS (APRICOTS) 

2,496. ABRICOTS A LA ROYALE (APRICOTS, ROYAL STYLE). 



6 half-apricots, 
maraschino jelly (No. 

2,421). 



3 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 
3 ozs. butter. 



3 ozs. flour, 
pinch of baking- 
powder. 



1 oz. pistachios, 
apricot jam. 
cochineal. 



Put the eggs into a basin with the sugar, place this on a saucepan of hot water, 
and whisk until the mixture resembles thick cream. Take the basin off the water, 
and stir in quickly the flour, baking-powder, and the melted butter. Turn this mix- 
ture into a cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty to thirty minutes. 
When done, turn out, and let it get cold. Take some rather deep tartlet-moulds, 
pour a httle jelly in the bottom of each, and, when firm, set in a half-apricot, fill 
up with jelly, and let set on ice. Rub some apricot jam through a hair sieve, put 
a thin layer of this round the side of the cake, blanch and chop the pistachio-nuts, 
sprinkle these thickly over the cake so that they adhere to the jam. Turn out the 
apricots, arrange them round the top of the border in a circle. Colour some of the 
jelly a pretty pink with a few drops of cochineal. When this is firmly set, chop 
it small, and arrange in the centre of the tartlets and round the base of the 
border. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year, if 
preserved fruit is used. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



737 



2 ozs. flour. 
1 oz. butter. 



1 gill water. 
1 egg- 



water icing (No. 2,17G). 
^ gill cream. 



2,497. PETITS CHOUX D'ABRICOTS. 

1 yolk of egg. 
apricots. 

Sieve the flour, put the butter and water into a saucepan, place on the fire and, 
when boiUng, stir in the flour very quickly. When the mixture leaves the sides and 
bottom of the pan clean remove it from the fire, and allow it to cool sUghtly. Beat 
in the eggs one at a time, and then turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into balls, 
place on a floured baking-tin, and bake in a very moderate oven for about one hour. 
Take them out and put on a sieve to cool ; cut each in half, remove any soft inside 
there may be, place a piece of apricot in each, and put tHe two halves together 
again. Cover each with lemon-flavoured water icing, and when quite set, decorate 
them with whipped cream by means of a forcing-bag and pipe. Dish up and 
serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable aU the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 to 8 choux. 




Fia. 193. — Petits Cuoux d'Abkicots. 



2,498. PYRAMIDE D'ABRICOTS A LA MAINTENON. 

1 tin or bottle preserved J gill sherry. J pint whipped cream. apricot jam. 

npricots. 1 genoise cake. 1 oz. pistachio-nuts. angelica. 

Make the genoise cake and bake it in a border-mould. When done, take it up 
and turn it out on to a sieve to cool, then pour the wine over it. Rub about a 
tablespoonful of apricot jam through a hair sieve, blanch, skin, and chop the pistachio- 
nuts finely ; put a layer of the apricot jam on the cake, sprinkle it all over thickly 
with the chopped nuts. Dish the cake on a glass dish ; whip the cream stiffly so that 
it will stand, keep back a httle for decoration, and arrange the remainder in the 
centre of the border in a pyramid form. Drain the apricots on a sieve, and then 
mount them in rows all over the cream. Turn the whipped cream that was put aside 
for decoration into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and force out a small rose between 
each apricot ; cut some angelica into small diamond shapes, and place two of these 
with each rose to represent leaves. The dish is now ready to serve. (See coloured 
plate.) 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

47—2 



738 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,499. CEUFS EN SURPRISE (SURPRISE EGGS). 



preserved apricots, 
sherry. 



cream- 
vanilla. 



3 eggs. 2 ozs. butter. h teaspoonful baking- 

4 ozs. sugar. 3 ozs. flour. powder. 
Butter a cake-tin and line it with paper ; butter this again, whip the eggs and 

sugar over a saucepan of hot water until thick and creamy. Remove from the hot 
water and stir in the butter, melted, and the flour and baking-powder, sieved. 
Turn into the cake-tin and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn out, and allow 
it to get cold, then cut into rounds about 3 or 4 inches in diameter. Sprinkle these 
with a Httle sherry and place a preserved apricot on each. Whip the cream rather 
stiffly, sweeten to taste, and flavour with vanilla. Surround each apricot with cream, 
so as to cover the cake, but do not put the cream over the apricot. This is done 
to represent a poached egg. Dish up on a glass dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 




Fig. 194.— Pi-TiTS Bateaux d'Abricots. 



2 eggs. 

2| ozs. sugar. 

2 ozs. flour. 



2,500 

1 oz. butter, 
apricots. 
\ gill cream. 



PETITS BATEAUX D'ABRICOTS. 



\ teaspoonful baking- 
powder, 
cochineal. 



3 sheets gela- 
tine, 
lemon-juice. 



\ oz. sugar. 

angelica. 

rice-paper. 



Grease some small boat-shaped moulds. Beat the eggs and sugar over a pan 
of hot water until they are thick and creamy, remove from the hot water, and stir 
in the sieved flour and baking-powder and the butter, melted. Half fill the tina 
with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Take them 
out and put on a sieve to cool ; then hollow out the centre of each, removing as 
much of the cake as possible. Rub some apricots through a hair sieve, sufficient to 
make \ gill of pulp. Whip the cream, add the apricot and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice. Melt the gelatine in a little apricot sjrrup, add the sugar, and then strain 
into the apricot cream ; colour it a pale pink with cochineal. When this is nearly 
set, fill the hollows in the cakes with it. Decorate with whipped cream through a 
forcing-bag and piping-tube. Cut some small triangular pieces of rice-paper, 
insert a stick of angehca, and place one in each case to represent a sail. Dish up, 
and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required. 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 boats. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



739 



2,501. CHARTREUSE D'ABRICOTS (APRICOT CHARTREUSE). 



lemon jelly (No. 2,416). 
preserved apricots. 



J lemon. 
1 gill cream. 



1 oz. sugar. 
J oz. gelatine. 



Line a plain charlotte-mould with a thin layer of lemon-jelly. Drain the 
apricots well and, when the jelly is set, cover the mould all over with the apricots, 
having the rounded sides placed next to the jelly. Set these in with more jelly. 
This is best done by placing a tumbler in the centre and pouring the jelly gently 
in between the glass and the mould. Place aside to set. Rub some more apricots 
through a hair sieve, sufficient to measure 1 gill after sieving. Whip the cream in 
a basin, stir in the apricot pulp ; melt the gelatine in a Httle water, add the sugar, 
and then strain into the apricot cream ; flavour with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and 
stir occasionally until it begins to set. Remove the tumbler from the mould by 
filling it with warm water, pour the apricot cream in the centre, and put aside to set. 
When firm, turn out, and garnish with chopped lemon-jelly round the dish. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 




Fig. 195. — Tartelettes d'Abricots. 



2,502. TARTELETTES D'ABRICOTS (APRICOT TARTLETS). 



2 eggs. 

3 ozs. sugar. 



3 ozs. flour, 
preserved apricots. 



i teaspoon ful of baking- 
powder. 



angelica, 
cherries. 



^ gill cream, 
pistachio-nuts. 



Well grease ten or twelve small patty-pans. Separate the whites from the yolks 
of eggs, add the sugar to the yolks, and beat them well together ; whisk the whites 
of eggs very stiffly, and then stir into the yolks ; also the sieved flour and baking- 
powder ; stir lightly together. Half fill the patty-pans with this mixture, place 
them in a moderate oven, and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, turn 
them out on to a sieve, and allow them to cool. Drain the apricots, and place one 
on each tartlet, having the rounded side upwards. Decorate with whipped cream 
through a forcing-bag, and also with gla.ce cherries and pistachio-nuts. Soak a 
4-inch stick of angelica in hot water, then cut into narrow strips, and put one 
across each tartlet to form a handle. Dish in a circle on a lace paper. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 10 to 12 tartlets. 



740 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,503. CREME D'ABRICOTS (APRICOT CREAM). 



\ lemon. 



1 gill clear jelly (No. 2,418).'^ 
pistachio-nuts. 



1 tin or bottle of apricots. 1 gill apricot-juice. 

IJ ozs. castor sugar. f oz. gelatine. ^ pint cream. 

Strain the apricots, and reserve the syrup ; pass the apricots through a hair 
sieve. Whip the cream lightly, mix into it J pint of the apricot puree. Put the 
gelatine into a saucepan with the gill of apricot syrup, melt it over the fire, stirring 
all the time ; add the sugar. Strain this into the cream and apricot puree, add the 
juice of the lemon, put into a cool place to partly set. Rinse out a fancy mould 
with cold water, and then with lemon or wine jelly ; leave a little of the latter at 
the bottom of the mould. Blanch the pistachio-nuts, peel and chop them, decorate 
the mould according to taste, put in some jelly to set the decoration. As soon as 
this is firm, pour in the apricot cream ; put on ice until the sweet is firm. Turn out 
in the usual way, decorate the base with chopped jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 

ORANGES 

2,504. ORANGES AU CARAMEL. 
6 oranges. | 1 gill cream. | castor sugar. | 4 ozs. loaf sugar. | 1 gill water. | pistachio -nuts. 
Peel the oranges, take off all the white pith, and then cut them into slices, 
across the orange, the same way that a lemon is cut ; remove the pips. Put the 
loaf sugar into a small stewpan, add the water to it, place the pan on the fire, and 
boil quickly until the sugar becomes a golden brown. Arrange a layer of orange slices 
in a glass dish, sprinkle lightly with castor sugar, pour over a very thin layer of the 
caramel, so as to form a thin coating over the fruit ; then another layer of oranges 
and caramel, until the oranges and caramel are aU used. Whip the cream, and cover 
the sweet with it. Chop a few pistachio-nuts finely, and sprinkle them over the cream. 
Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,505. ORANGES WITH COCOANUT. 

6 oranges. | cocoanut. | castor sugar. ( a few pistachio-nuts. 

Peel the oranges, take ofE all the white pith and cut them in slices, remove the 
pips. Arrange a layer of these in a glass dish, sprinkle thickly with castor sugar, 
then cover with a layer of desiccated cocoanut, then a layer of oranges, sugar, and 
cocoanut ; continue in this way until the oranges are all used. Sprinkle the top 
layer with a few chopped pistachio-nuts over the cocoanut. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,506. CR:£mE A L'ORANGE. 

6 oranges. | \ pint cream. | ^ oz. gelatine. | 1 gill wine jelly (No. 2,418). | pistachio -nuts. [ sugar. 
Line an ornamental mould with a thin layer of wine jelly ; when this is set, 
decorate it with an orange, divided into its natural divisions, and a few chopped 
or shredded pistachio-nuts ; set in the decoration, with a few drops of wine jelly 
sprinkled over it. When set, put in another very thin layer of wine jelly. Whip 
the cream slightly ; squeeze the juice from the oranges (this should measure ^ pint) ; 
add this to the cream, with a little grated rind. Melt the gelatine in a Uttle water, 
add to the rest of the ingredients, sweeten to taste. Put this on ice, and stir until 
the mixture begins to set, then turn it into the decorated mould. When thoroughly 
set, turn it out, and decorate round the base with chopped jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasona,ble, November to June. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 741 

2,507. CR£ME D'ORANGE EN SURPRISE. 

6 oranges. ^ oz. gelatine. ^ pint whipped 2 ozs. sugar. 

3 tangerine oranges. pistachio-nuts. cream. wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

Rinse out a fancy mould with cold water, line it with a thin coating of wine 
jelly, then decorate it with orange and chopped pistachio-nuts ; set this in with a 
little more jelly, put on ice until quite firm. Squeeze out the juice of the oranges, 
whip the cream slightly ; mix these two ingredients together, add a little of the grated 
orange-rind. Melt the gelatine in a httle water, stir in the sugar, and strain into 
the cream and juice. Put on ice, and stir until the mixture begins to set ; then 
line the bottom and sides of the decorated mould with it. , This is best done by 
placing a glass in the centre of the mould, and filling round it with the cream. 
When the cream is thoroughly set, the glass can be removed by pouring into it some 
hot water. Divide the tangerines into divisions, skin them, and take out the pips ; 
put the pieces of orange into a basin, and add some jelly to them. Stand on ice, 
and, when beginning to set, fill the centre of the mould with it. When quite set, 
dip the mould quickly into hot water, turn out on to a silver or glass dish, garnish 
with chopped jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,503. ORANGES A LA FRAN^AISE. 


3 oranges. 


1 oz. gelatine. 


^ lemon. 


pistachio-nuts. 


IJ gills water. 


1| ozs. sugar. 


IJ gills cream. 


vanilla. 



Cut the oranges in halves, remove all the pulp, taking care not to break the 
skins. Press all the juice out of the pulp, and measure off 1^ gills, using more 
oranges if required. Melt the gelatine in 1| gills of water, add the sugar and rind of 
the lemon, peeled thinly, dissolve this over the fire, and then simmer gently for 
five minutes. Strain this into the orange-juice, let it cool a little, and then fill the 
orange-skins. Put into a cool place to set. Whip the cream stiffly, sweeten to taste, 
and flavour with vanilla ; when the orange jelly is quite firm, pile the whipped 
cream on the top of each. Blanch and skin a few pistachio-nuts, chop them finely, 
and sprinkle a httle over the top of each orange. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, November to 
June. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,509. CHARTREUSE D'ORANGES A LA BARONNE. 
oranges. | mixed fruit. | ^ lb. loaf sugar. | 1 gill water. | 1 gill cream. | lemon. 

Peel the oranges, remove all the white pith, and break them into their natural 
divisions, taking care not to break the skin of the oranges. Place the pieces of 
orange in a very cool oven to dry. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, with 
one teaspoonful of lemon-juice ; let this boil to 310° F. Brush a plain mould all 
over with salad oil, dip the pieces of orange into the sugar one at a time, and fine the 
sides and bottom of the mould with them, letting them overlap each other. Do 
this as quickly as possible, and then leave the mould to cool. When set, turn it 
out, and place on a dish. Fill the centre with mixed fruits that have been cooked 
shghtly in syrup. Whip the cream stiffly, and pile it on the top of the fruit. It 
must then be served at once. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, November 
to June. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,510. CHARTREUSE D'ORANGES (ORANGE CHARTREUSE). 

IJpints wine jelly (No. 2,418). | 4 oranges. | a few pistachio-nuts. 

Peel the oranges carefully, take away all the white pith, divide the oranges 

into their divisions. Put a layer of jelly at the bottom of a plain mould, put it 

in a cool place o: on ice, and, when set, arrange the quarters of orange in a circle 



742 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

all round the mould, each piece overlapping the last ; this must be done carefully, 
with neatness and exactitude. Sprinkle a Uttle jelly over to set in the orange. 
In the centre of the circle of oranges put some chopped pistachios. As soon as the 
oranges are set, put in another layer of jelly ; let this set, then arrange another 
circle of oranges. Continue in this way until the mould is full. Put the chartreuse 
on ice to set. When fkm, dip into warm water, turn out quickly, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to June 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

BANANES (BANANAS) 

2,511. CHARTREUSE DE BANANES (CHARTREUSE OF BANANAS). 

1| pints wine jelly. | 4 bananas. 

Skin the bananas, out them in slices, and proceed in the same way as for the 
orange chartreuse. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 




Fig. 196. — Bananes Garnies a la Marie. 



2,512. BANANES GARNIES A LA MARIE. 

4 bananas. \ giU cream. pistachio-nuts, 

wine jelly (No. 2,418). 3 sheets of gelatine. \ oz. sugar. 

Remove a strip of skin about 1 inch wide from each banana ; take out the bananas 
carefully ; rub two of them through a hair sieve. Whip the cream in a basin, stir 
in the sieved banana ; melt the gelatine in a Httle water, add the sugar, and strain 
into the banana cream. When this is nearly set, fill the skins with it, and put aside 
to get firm. Cut the remaining two bananas in shces, and cover them thickly 
with half -set wine jelly ; put a shce of pistachio-nut on each, and cover again with 
jelly. When the banana cream is firm, place the jellied banana shces down the 
centre of each, allowing the pieces to overlap each other. Garnish with whipped 
cream through a forcing-bag. Place the bananas on a dish, and decorate round 
with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



743 



2,513. BAVAROISE DE BANANES A LA WELLINGTON. 



wine jeUy (No. 2,418). 
bananas. 



1 oz. gelatine, 
pistachio-nuts. 



3 yolks of eggs. 
1 gill cream. 



vanilla, 
sherry. 



^ pint milk. 
1 oz. sugar. 

Line a plain mould with a tliin layer of jelly. When set, cover the mould with 
slices of banana, and some chopped pistachio-nuts between each sHce. Set these 
decorations in with a httle more jelly. Make a custard with the milk, eggs, and 
sugar ; when thick, pour it into a basin, flavour with vanilla, and leave to cool. 
Rub some bananas through a hair sieve, sufficient to make 1 gill of pulp ; add this 
to the custard ; also the cream, whipped. Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain 
into the custard ; add one tablespoonful of sherry, and stir occasionally until it is 
nearly set. Then turn it into the prepared mould, and put in a cool place to get 
firm. Dip in warm water, turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly round the 
dish. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 




Fig. 197. — Petites Condoles de Bananes. 



2,514. PETITES CONDOLES DE BANANES (LITTLE BANANA GONDOLAS). 

4 bananas. J oz. sugar. I wine jelly (No. 3 sheets gelatine. 

^ gill cream. angelica. I 2,418). rice-paper. 

Select bananas that are as curved as possible. Remove a strip of skin from 
each, by making two parallel cuts with a sharp knife down the length of the banana ; 
lift this strip off, and then remove the banana without breaking the skin any 
further. Rub two of the bananas through a hair sieve. Whip the cream, and stir 
the sieved bananas into it. Melt the gelatine in a httle water, add the sugar, and 
then strain into the banana cream. Stir this occasionally until nearly set, then 
fill the banana-skin, and put aside to set. Pour a httle liquid jelly on a dish, place 
the bananas in tliis, and let them set. Cut four triangular-shaped pieces of rice- 
paper to form sails, insert in each a stick of angelica, and place one of these in each 
boat. Prepare four similar masts and sails, only very much smaller, make a hole 
in the stalk of each banana, and insert one of these flags in each. Decorate round 
the masts with a few roses of whipped cream. Serve as soon as possible. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi 
cient for 4 persons. 



744 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



PRAISES (STRAWBERRIES) 



1 pint maraschino jelly (No. 
2,421). 

2 ozs. sugar. 



2,515. TIVOLI AUX PRAISES. 

\\ gills cream. 

\ pint strawberry puree. 

\ lb. large fresh strawberries. 



\ pint milk. 
3 yolks of eggs. 
1 white of egg. 



angelica, 
whipped cream. 
1 oz. gelatine. 



Line the sides and bottom of a plain mould with maraschino jelly, put on ice to 
set. Boil the milk with the sugar ; beat the eggs in a basin, and stir the hot milk 
on to them ; return to the stewpan, and make the custard ; strain into a basin, and 
let cool. Melt the gelatine in a Uttle water ; stir the puree into the custard, whip 
the cream hghtly, and mix in ; strain the gelatine to the rest of the ingredients. 
Mix all well together, stir until it begins to set, then turn it into the Hned mould. 
Place in a cool place or on ice until quite firm. Turn out the shape on to a dish, 
surround the base with a wreath of picked strawberries and pieces of angehca, cut 
to represent leaves. Decorate the top of the shape with whole strawberries and 
whipped cream, using a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe for the cream. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable June to August. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,516. TIMBALE A LA SUPREME. 

1 savarin cake 



(No. 2,367). 



\ pint strawberry cream (No. 2,519). 
I pint vanilla bavaroise (No. 2,430). 



1 J gills cream. 
12 strawberries. 



apricot jam. 
pistachio-nuts. 

Make the savarin cake and bake it in a charlotte-mould. When cooked, turn 
it out on to a sieve to cool. Scoop out the inside of the cake, leaving the sides and 
bottom \ inch thick. Put a tablespoonful of apricot jam through a hair sie\e, 
spread this over the sides of the cake, and then cover thickly with blanched and 
chopped pistachio-nuts. Fill up the centre of the cake with alternate layers of the 
vanilla bavaroise and the strawberry cream ; let each layer set before putting in 
the next ; fill the cake, and let it quite set. Whip the cream, flavour and sweeten 
to taste, and pile it on the top of the cake in the shape of a pyramid. Pick the 
strawberries, which should be large and all of one size, cut each in half, and cover the 
pjTamid of cream all over with them. Dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,517. CR£mE A LA CELESTINE. 

1 lb. strawberries. | wine jelly (No. 2,418). ( strawberry cream (No. 2,519). 

Line the bottom and sides of a plain charlotte-mould with a thin layer of wine 
jelly. Pick the strawberries, choosing them as much as possible the same size ; 
set these all over the mould, arranging them in rows, as closely together and as 
evenly as possible ; sprinkle over a Uttle more jelly so as to set them. Fill the 
centre of the mould with a strawberry cream. Put on ice to set. When ready to 
serve, dip the mould into warm water, turn out on to a dish, and garnish round 
the base with chopped jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, IJ hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



\\ gills cream, 
strawberries. 



glac6 cherries, 
angelica. 



2,518. PLAN DE PRAISES A LA CR£ME. 

i lb. puff-paste (No. 2,185). 
castor sugar. 

Roll out the puff-paste, about I inch thick. Place a flan-tin on a baking-sheet, 
line it with the pastry, prick with a fork, fill with raw rice, decorate the edges, and 
then put into a hot oven to bake. When done, turn out the rice, and place the 
p.istry-case on a sieve to cool. Pick the strawberries, put them into the pastry- 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 745 

case, as many as it will hold ; sprinkle well with castor sugar. Whip the cream, 
sweeten to taste, and spread it on the fruit, piling it up into a dome shape ; smooth 
it with a knife. Place on the top a large glace cherry, and arrange round it some 
pieces of angelica, cut in the shape of leaves. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August, 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,519. CREME DE PRAISES (STRAWBERRY CREAM). 
J pint strawberry puree. | J pint cream. | 1 oz. gelatine. | sugar to taste. 

Rub through a hair sieve sufficient strawberries to make ^pint of puree. Whip 
the cream, not too much ; mix into it the strawberry puree, sweeten to taste 
Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain it into the rest of the ingredients. When 
the mixture is just beginning to set, turn it into a mould, and put on ice to set. 
When ready, dip the mould into warm water, turn out carefully on to a dish, 
and serve. When strawberries are not in season, jam may be used instead. In this 
ease the sugar is omitted, the jam is passed through a hair sieve, and just enough 
added to the cream to flavour and sweeten. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,520. PRAISES A LA CREOLE (STRAWBERRIES, CREOLE STYLE). 



H pints milk. 2 ozs. sugar 



G ozs. rice. 



vanilla essence. 



1 lb. strawberries. 



1 preserved pine- 
apple. 1 gill syrup. 

Put the milk into a stewpan with the sugar, bring to the boil, then sprinkle in 
the rice and simmer until it is tender and the milk has been nearly absorbed ; the 
rice must be kept stirred as soon as it begins to thicken. Flavour with vanilla, and 
turn it into a border-mould. Pick the strawberries, put them into a basin, and pour 
the syrup over them. Let them soak until required. Cut the pineapple into shoes, 
cut each sUce into four, so as to have heart-shaped pieces. Turn out the border 
of rice on to a dish, mount the pieces of pineapple on the top of the border, over- 
lapping each other. Put the strawberries in the centre of the border, and serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. Gd. Time required, Ih hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,521. COMPOTE DE PRAISES (COMPOTE OP STRAWBERRIES). 
2 lbs. strawberries. | 1 pint syrup. | 1 tablespoonful red-currant jelly. | 1 small glass maraschino. 

Pick the strawberries, put them into a basin, pour over the boihng syrup, cover 
with a plate, and let stand for an hour. Drain off the syrup, boil it down ; add the 
jelly and the maraschino. Dish the strawberries, pour the syrup over as soon as 
it is cold. It is then ready to serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

2,522. STRAWBERRY TRIPLE. 
C small sponge 1 lb. strawberries. sugar. sherry. 4 j-olks of eggs. 



cakes. 



vanilla. 



^ pint cream. 1 pint milk. 2 whole eggs. 

Put the milk and 1| ozs. sugar into a saucepan. When nearly boiling, pour it 
on to the well-beaten eggs ; return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until the 
eggs are cooked, without boiling. Turn it into a basin, and flavour with vaniLla. 
Cut the sponge cakes in halves, sprinkle them with a little sherry. Put half the 
strawberries into a basin, crush them with a spoon, sweeten with sugar, and mix 
Avith some cream. Spread this mixture thickly between the sponge cakes, dish 
them in a pile, and pour the custard over. Leave until quite cold. Whip the rest 
of the cream rather stiffly, pile this on the top of the trifle in tJie form of a pyramid. 



746 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

Decorate tlie cream and round the dish with the remainder of the strawberries 
and with a few chopped pistachio-nuts. Serve as soon as possible after the cream 
is added. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. Suffi- 
cient for 8 to 10 persons. 

2,523. PAIN DE PRAISES. 

1 lb. strawberries. | wine jelly (No. 2,418). | Memon. | angelica. | sugar. | ^ oz. gelatine. 
Rinse a jelly-mould in cold water, then line it with a thin layer of wine jelly. 

Pick out about one dozen of the best strawberries, and put aside for garnish ; rub 
the rest of them through a hair sieve. Put this pulp in a basin, add a good squeeze 
of lemon-juice and a little sugar. Melt 1 pint of wine jelly, dissolve in it h ounce of 
gelatine, strain this into the strawberry puree. Stir occasionally, until it begins to 
set, then pour it into the lined mould. If this strawberry preparation is not a good 
colour, a few drops of cochineal should be added before it begins to set. When 
quite firm, dip into a basin of warm water, and turn out on to a dish. Remove the 
stalks from the strawberries that were put aside, place a circle of these round the 
base of the mould, and garnish with a few large leaves of angehca. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

GROSEILLES (GOOSEBERRIES). 

2,524. CREME DE GROSEILLE VERTE (GOOSEBERRY CREAM). 

} pint milk. 2 ozs. loaf sugar. 1 J gills cream. | oz. gelatine. cherries. 

2 yolks of eggs. 1^ gills gooseberry puree. spinach greening. wine jelly. angelica. 

Coat a fancy mould with wine jelly. When this is set, decorate with cherries 
and angelica, pour over a few drops of jelly, in order to set the decoration. Put 
the milk and sugar into a saucepan, beat the eggs in a basin and, when the milk 
is hot, pour it on to the eggs ; return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until it 
thickens. Do not allow it to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Strain the custard into 
a basin ; add to it, when cool, the puree of gooseberries and the whipped cream. 
Add a few drops of spinach greening, in order to make it a pretty green colour. 
Melt the gelatine in a httle water, strain it into the cream, let it half set, and keep it 
stirred occasionally. Turn it into the decorated mould, put on ice to set. When 
ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, turn out on to a glass or silver dish, 
and garnish round the base with chopped wine or lemon jelly. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, \l hours. Seasonable, April to June. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

FIGUES (FIGS) 

2,525. TIMBALE DE FIGUES A LA CREME (TIMBALE OP FIGS WITH 

CREAM). 

1 lb. dried figs. 2 ozs. sugar, i ^ pint water. j 1^ gills cream. 

1 lemon. J pint claret, j \ oz. gelatine. | wine jelly. 

Put the figs into a saucepan, add the claret, water, sugar, and lemon-rind. 
Let this simmer gently until the figs are quite tender and the moisture nearly ab- 
sorbed, then rub the mixture through a sieve. Melt the gelatine in a httle water, 
stir it into the fig puree. Rinse a plain mould with cold water, then run some 
hr.lf-set wine jelly over the mould, so that it coats it with a very thin layer 
of jelly. Stir two tablespoonfuls of cream into the fig preparation, and then fill 
the mould with it. When it is quite set, dip it into a basin of warm water, and 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 747 

turn out on to a dish. Whip the remaining cream very stiffly, put some of it 
into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and arrange the rest round the mould. Force 
out a few roses on the top of the mould, place some leaves of angehca round them, 
and it is ready to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,526. CO.MPOTE DE FIGUES (COMPOTE OF FIGS). 
1 lb. figs. I J lb. sugar. | 1 lemon. | whipped cream. 

Wash the figs in cold water, then put them into a ste\vpan with sufficient cold 
water to cover them ; put them on the fire, and bring to boihng-point. When 
the figs are plump and soft, add the sugar. In a short time take the figs up carefully 
to avoid breaking them. Add the grated rind and juice of the lemon to the syrup 
that the figs were boiled in, let it cook quickly for a few minutes, and then pour it 
over the figs. Let them get quite cold, turn into a glass dish, and serve with 
whipped cream separately. Muscatels and French plums can be cooked and served 
in the same manner. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,527. CREMES DE FIGUES (FIG CREAMS). 



3 ozs. rice. 



1 lemon. 



6 green figs. pistachio-nuts, 

angelica. 



1 pint miJi. 1 oz. sugar. ^ gill cream. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan with the grated rind of the lemon, let 
this come to the boil, then sprinkle in the rice, and stir over the fire until the rice is 
cooked and has absorbed the milk. Rinse a plain cake-tin with cold water, put 
the rice into it, and press down into a flat cake ; it should be 1 inch thick. Put this 
aside to get quite cold and firm. Stew the figs gently in sugar and water until 
tender, take them up, drain them, and allow them to get cold. Turn the rice 
shape out when firm, and cut into ovals the same size as the figs. Place a stewed 
fig on each, whip the cream stiffly, colour a nice pink with cochineal, put it into a 
forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate round each fig with roses of cream. 
Blanch and skin a few pistachio-nuts, cut them into shreds, and put a group of these 
between each piped rose. Dish them up in a circle, with the points of the figs to 
the centre decorate the dish with a few roses of whipped cream and leaves of 
angelica. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, August and 
September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

ANANAS (PINEAPPLE) 

2,528. FLAN D'ANANAS A LA CR£mE. 

J a preserved pineapple. ^ lb. short pastry. frangipane cream (No. 2,171). 

2 ozs. sugar. 1 gill cream. pistachio-nuts. 

Roll the pastry out rather thinly, hne a flan ring with it, decorate the edges, 
fill with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove the flan 
ring and all the rice. Cut the pineapple into thin slices, put a layer of it in the pastry- 
crust, cover with a layer of frangipane cream, then a thick layer of pineapple, 
sufficient to fill the crust. Put a thin coating of frangipane cream on the top. 
Place this in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Take it out, and let it get 
quite cold. Whip the cream rather stiffly, flavour it with vanilla essence, and sweeten 
to taste. Pile this on the top of the frangipane cream ; blanch, skin, and chop a 
few pistachio-nuts ; sprinkle these over the top of the cream, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



748 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



preserved pineapple. 
\ pint cream. 



1 oz. sugar. 
J oz. gelatine. 



2,529. CR£;ME D'ANANAS (PINEAPPLE CREAM). 

wine jelly (No. 2,418). 
pistachio-nuts. 

Rinse a jelly-mould with cold water, pour in a thin layer of liquid jelly ; let thir 
set, and then decorate the bottom with chopped pistachio-nuts and some small 
pieces of pineapple. Set these in with a Uttle wine jelly. Chop some pineapple 
finely, sufficient to make three tablespoonfuls. Whip the cream in a basin, add 
to it the chopped pineapple ; melt the gelatine in a Uttle of the syrup from the 
preserved pineapple, add the sugar, and let it dissolve over the fire. Strain this 
into the pineapple cream, stir occasionally until it begins to set, then pour into the 
prepared mould, and put aside to set. When firm, dip the mould in warm Winter, 
and then turn out on to a dish. Garnish round with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 198. — Cricmk d'Ananas. 



2,530. ANANAS A LA FRANKFORT (PINEAPPLE, FRANKFORT 

STYLE). 



li preserved pine- 
apple. 



wine jelly (No. 2,418). 
pistachio -nuts. 



cherries. \\ pints milk. mixed fruits. 

4 ozs. rice. 1^ gills cream. 1 oz. sugar. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan. When boiUng, sprinkle in the rice, and 
stir until it is tender and has absorbed the milk. Turn it into a basin, and when 
cool, stir in ^ gill of cream, and 1 giU of wine jelly. Decorate a border-mould with 
glace cherries and chopped pistachio-nuts ; set these in with wine jelly. When 
firm, pour in the rice mixture, and put aside to set. Drain all the syrup away from 
the pineapple, and then carefully cut out the centre, leaving only about % inch of pine- 
apple all round. When the rice border is firm, turn it out on to a dish, and place the 
pineapple in the centre. Have ready some mixed fruits that have been shghtly 
cooked in syrup, fill the hollow in the pineapple with this, and cover the top with 
stiffly-whipped cream. Sprinkle the surface with chopped pistachio-nuts, and 
serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasona,ble all the year. Sufficient 
for 6 to 8 persons. 




^4% 



C 
u 

03 



/ffl 

d 

D 

a. 

o 

en 

*-> 

<3 
O 

u 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 749 

2,531. COLD PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

stale sponge cake. | pineapple. | wine jelly (No. 2,-418). | cream. 

Cut a stale sponge cake in slices, soak each slice in the syrup from the pine- 
apple. Chop some of the pineapple rather coarsely. Have ready a plain charlotte- 
mould holding H pints, fill it with alternate layers of the soaked sponge cakes 
and the chopped pineapple. Melt some wine jelly, but do not allow it to get very 
hot. Pour this on to the layers in the tin until the mould is full. Put aside on the 
ice or in a cool place to set. When quite firm, dip the mould in a basin of warm 
water, and turn it out on to a dish. Whip some cream rather stiffly, sweeten and 
flavour it to taste, put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, -and decorate the top 
and sides of the jelly with it. Send to table with some more cream served 
separately. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

PRUNES (PRUNES) 

2,532. CROOTES DE PRUNES. 
3 eggs. I 2 ozs. butter. J gill cream. I 1 glass port or claret vrine. 2 ozs. loaf sug.ir. 



3 ozs. flour. I 4 ozs. castor sugar. 



angelica. | \ lb. French plums. 



1 lemon -rind. 



Break the eggs into a basin, add the castor sugar to them, melt the butter in 
a small stewpan, and sieve the flour with a pinch of baking-powder. Beat the 
eggs and sugar over a saucepan of hot water until of the consistency of thick cream 
When these are ready, take the basin off the water and stir in the butter and floui 
quickly. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered Yorkshire tin, and bake in a 
moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When the cake is done, turn out on to 
a sieve to cool. Stew the French plums with the wine, lemon-rind, loaf sugar, 
and about | pint of water. Cook until soft. Put aside six of the best plums, and 
rub the remainder through a hair sieve after removing the stones. Cut out six 
rounds from the cake with a round cutter about 2| to 3 inches across ; spread a 
layer of the prune mixture on these croutes. Stone carefully the six plums that 
were put aside, shape them into the form of a flower ; whip the cream, colour it 
a pretty pink with a drop or two of cochineal. Put this into a forcing-bag with a 
rose-pipe attached to it, and fill the plums. Place one of these on each croute, 
fix to them pieces of thin strips of angehca to represent stalks and a few leaves 
of the same. Ornament with roses of whipped cream. Dish up, and serve cold. 
(See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

2,533. PRUNES A LA RUSSE (PRUNES, RUSSIAN STYLE). 

1^ lbs. prunes. 1 lemon. 1 wine jelly (No. J gill cream. 



sugar. 



J oz. gelatine. 



2 ozs. sweet almonds. | 2,418). 

Line a border-mould with a thin layer of wine jelly. Blanch and skin the 
almonds, cut them into fine shreds, and decorate the mould all over with them. 
Stew the prunes in 1 pint of water, with sugar to taste, and the thinly-peeled rind 
of the lemon. When they are soft, take away one-third of the prunes ; to the re- 
mainder add the gelatine, melted in a httle water, and a few drops of cochineal. 
When this is cool, put a layer of it in the mould, let this set, then pour in a layer of 
jelly. When that is set, a layer of prunes. Continue in this way until the mould 
is full. When firm, turn out on to a dish, fill the centre with the rest of the stewed 
prunes, and pile whipped cream on the top. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
SuOicient for 5 or 6 persons. 



750 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



8 ozs. florador. 
1 pint milk. 
1 lemon. 



2 gills cream. 

J lb. French plums. 

1 glass white wine. 



3 ozs. castor sugar. 

angelica. 

I oz. gelatine. 



2,534. BORDURE DE FLORADOR AUX PRUNES (BORDER OF FLORADOR 

WITH PRUNES). 

1 oz. pistachio- 
nuts, 
apricot jam. 

Put the milk into a saucepan with half the sugar and half the lemon-rind. When 
the milk boils, sprinkle in the florador, and boil until it is tender and has absorbed 
the milk. It must be kept stirred as soon as it begins to thicken. Turn the florador 
into a basin and let it cool ; then mix with it \ gill of whipped cream and the gelatine 
melted in a little water. Put this preparation, after being well mixed, into a border- 
mould, and let it become quite firm. Stew the French plums in ^ pint of water ; 
add the other half of the sugar, the remainder of the lemon-rind, and the wine. ' When 
tender, drain and let cool. Take out the stones carefully, put them again into 
shape, and insert into each a small strip of angehca to represent a stalk. When 
ready to serve, turn out the border, coat it all over with a thin layer of apricot 
iam, which has been rubbed through a sieve, and then cover thickly with chopped 




Fig. 199. — Bordure de Floradur aux Prunes. 



pistachio-nuts. Whip 1 gill of cream, pile it in the centre of the border, dress the 
plums leaning against it, standing them upright. Whip the remaining i gill of 
cream, put it in a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe, and decorate between the pluma 
and elsewhere, according to taste Serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 5 or 6 persons. 



3 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 
3 ozs. butter. 



2,535 

3 ozs. flour, 
pinch of baking 
powder. 



PETITS gAtEAUX DE FRUITS. 



I glass maras- 
chino, 
pistachio -nuts. 



vanilla essence. mixed fruits. 

4 ozs. loaf sugar. 1 gill cream. 

1 gill water. angehca. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, melt the butter in a small stewpan, sieve 
the flour and baking-powder together. Beat the eggs and sugar together over hot 
water until thick and creamy, then take the basin off the hot water, stir in the 
melted butter and the sieved flour; add a few drops of vanilla essence; mix well. 
Butter some dariole-moulds, turn the mixture into them, filling them two-thirds ; 
bake in a moderate oven for about twentv minutes. When done, turn them out on ta 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 751 

a sieve to cool. Put the water and loaf sugar into a ste^vpan, and boil it until it 
becomes a thick syrup. Prepare some fruit (according to the season). If largo 
fruit, such as apricots, bananas, oranges, etc., are used, it must be cut in dice , 
small fruit like raspberries and cherries left whole. Put the fruit into the syrup, 
flavour ^A-ith the liqueur, or wine could be used. Cook for one minute, turn into 
a basin, and let the fruit get cold. Fill the Httle cases with the fruit. Whip the 
cream, sweeten to taste, flavour with vanilla, put this into a cornet with a rose- 
pipe, and decorate all over the fruit with it. Sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts, 
and put a little strip of angelica over each. Dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,536. SALADE DE FRUITS (FRUIT SALAD). 

4 ozs. loaf sugar. 1 glass of liqueur (maraschino or I mixed fresh fruit. 

1 gill water. Kirschwasser, etc.). | | gill sherry. 

Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, boil until it is a thick syrup, pour 
it into a basin, let it cool, and then add the liqueur. Prepare some mixed fruit, 
having as great a variety as possible, in order to blend the colours. If pineapple 
is used, it must be cut into small sHces, also bananas. Small fruit, such as straw- 
berries, grapes, etc., must be left whole. If apples are used, they should be cut 
in small pieces and cooked gently until tender, without letting them go to pulp. 
Mix all these fruits together, put them into a deep glass bowl, and pour the sherry 
over them, and also some of the syrup. Place the bowl on ice for about two hours 
before using. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year, 
but best in the summer. 

2,537. SUEDOISE DE FRUITS. 

1|- pints jelly. | fruit. | syrup. | 1 small glass maraschino. 

Coat a fancy mould with wine jelly all over, bottom and sides ; put on ice until 
required. Choose some fruits of varied colours, according to the season. The 
greater the contrast in the colours, the prettier the sweet will be. Strawberries, 
bananas, grapes, cherries, etc., would make a good combination. Prepare the 
fruit, take the stalks off the strawberries, stone the cherries carefully, skin and stone 
the grapes, skin the bananas, and cut them in slices ; a few halved apricots or pieces 
of pineapple could be added. Put the fruit into a saucepan with syrup, nearly to 
cover them ; add a glass of maraschino, and stew for a few minutes. Then strain 
and let the fruit get cold. Put a layer of the stewed fruits into the lined mould, 
arranging them so as to contrast the colours, cover with a layer of jeUy, and allow 
to set. Then put in another layer of jelly, and when set, another layer of the fruit. 
Continue in this way until the mould is full, put on ice, and let set. Turn out, and 
garnish with chopped jelly round the base. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1 J to 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufl&cient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,538. CORBEILLE DE FRUITS (BASKET OF FRUITS). 



6 eggs. 

6 ozs. sugar. 

6 ozs. flour. 



^ teaspoonful baking- 
powder, 
cream. 



cry.stallized violets, 
royal icing (No. 2,178). 
fruits. 



angelica. 

syrup. 

maraschino. 



Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, stand it on a saucepan of hot water, and 
beat for about tifteen to twenty minutes. Then stir in quickly the flour and baking- 
powder. Turn the mixture into a well-greased square cake-tin ; bake in rather a 
slow oven for half an hour. When done, turn the cake out on to a sieve, and allow 
it to get cold. Scoop out the centre of the cake so as to form a basket. Make 
some royal icing, put this into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached to it. With 
PT. X. 48 



752 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



this make cross -lines on the sides of the cake to represent lattice work, in the spaces 
betTreen put crystalUzed violets. These must be fastened on by means of a little 
of the icing sugar or jam. Prepare some fruit of different kinds, whatever is in 
season. Make a syrup, flavour it with maraschino, put the fruit into it, just bring 
to the boil, turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Fill the centre of the cako 
with the fruit, cover over with whipped cream, decorate with leaves of angelica 
and crystalhzed violets. Soak a long piece of angehca in hot water, bend it into a 
handle, and place it across the basket. Serve cold. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 

2,539. MACEDOINE DE FRUITS EN GELEE. 

\\ pints maraschino jelly (No. 2,420). | fruit in season. 
Use fruit according to the season. In the summer, strawberries, grapes, etc., 
at other times, bananas and oranges, or preserved fruits, such as apricots, pineapple, 
etc., can be used. Prepare the fruit, take off any stalks, and if grapes, the stones 




Fig. 200. — Mackdoine de Fruits en Gelee. 



should be taken out. Put a thin layer of the jelly into a fancy mould, arrange 
the fruits over this, such as a grape, then a strawberry, a cherry, and so on, then 
put some more jelly to set them. Continue until the mould is full with the fruit 
and jelly. Each layer of fruit must be nearly set before putting in the next. After 
the first row, the fruit should not be arranged in the mould in too formal a manner ; 
it should be dropped in carelessly, but so, that the colours blend. When full, 
put on ice to set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, and turn on 
to a dish. The base of the jelly can be garnished with chopped jelly. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,540. MACEDOINE DE FRUITS A LA CREME (MACEDOINE OF FRUIT 

WITH CREAM.) 



wine jelly (No. 2,418). 
1 banana. 



1 gill cream, 
vanilla. 



\ lb. black and white grapes, 
glace cherries. 

Line a plain charlotte-mould with a thin layer o 
cut it into slices, and arrange them in a circle overlapping one another at the bottom 
of the mould ; place a cherry in the centre, and set in carefully with a little liquid 



■ wine jelly. 



^ oz. sugar. 
\ oz. gelatine. 

Peel the banana, 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



753 



wine jelly. When set, insert a tumbler in the centre, and place in the space between 
a row of black grapes. Set these in with some more wine jelly, and then put in a 
row of white grapes. Continue in tliis way until the top of the mould is reached ; 
put aside to set. Whip the cream in a basin, flavour with vanilla ; melt the gelatine 
in a little water, add the sugar, and let it dissolve over the fire, strain this into the 
whipped cream ; stir occasionally until it begins to set. Remove the tumbler from 
the mould by filhng it with warm water, pour the vanilla cream into the hollow, 
and put aside to set. When fii'm, turn out and garnish with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,541. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 



J lb. savoy biscuits. 
J pint cream. 



1 oz. sugar. 



J oz. gelatine. 



J teaspoon ful essence of 
vanilla. 



1 gill water. 

a few pistachio -nuts. 

Split the biscuits carefully in halves, cut some of these halves in haK again, trim 
the sides, slope them so that when placed together they will form a circle. Place 
these round the bottom of the tin, making them fit very closely together. Fill the 




Fig. 201. — Charlotte Russb. 



hole in the centre of the circle with chopped pistachio-nuts. Arrange half-biscuits 
round the sides of the mould, so that they fit closely together ; if the biscuits come 
above the tin cut them level. Put the gelatine and water into a saucepan, and stir 
until the gelatine is melted. Take it off the fire, and stir the sugar into it. Whip the 
cream, flavour it with the vanilla, strain in the gelatine, mix well, stir until it is 
half set, turn it into the lined mould carefully. When quite set, turn it out. To do 
this, the mould is turned upside down on to a dish, and the tin is carefully removed. 
Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



savnrin border (No. 

2,367). 
2 01S. almonds. 



2,542. SAVARIN AUX FRUITS. 

2 ozs. chocolate. mixed fruits, such as apricots, J gill sherry. 

6 ozs. icing sugar. pineapple, bananas, or any 4 ozs. sugar. 

1 gill cream. fruit in season. 1 giU water. 

Make the savarin border and allow it to cool. Blanch and skin the almonds, 
chop them coarsely, and then place in the oven until a nice bro\vn colour. Grate 
the chocolate, melt it in a httle water, add the sieved icing sugar, and enough water 

48—2 



754 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



to make it the consistency of thick cream. Cover the savarin border with this 
icing, and before it sets, sprinkle it thickly with the burnt almonds. Make a syrup 
with the loaf sugar and water, put the mixed fruit into it, let it simmer for five 
minutes, then flavour with the sherry, and turn into a basin to cool. Fill the centre 
with this fruit salad, whip the cream, pile it on the top of the fruit in the form of a 
pjrramid. Decorate the base of the dish with some of the mixed fruit. Serve cold. 
Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour after the savarin is made. Seasonable 
all the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



2,543. 

savoy biscuits, 
glace cherries 



CHARLOTTE AU CHOCOLAT A LA HOLLANDAISE. 



1 oz. sugar, 
angelica. 



1 gill wine jelly (No. 2,418). 

2 ozs. chocolate. 



f oz. gelatine. 
J pint milk. 



1 gill cream, 
vanilla. 



Coat the bottom of a charlotte-mould with a thin layer of jelly ; when this is 
set, decorate with cherries and angelica ; sprinkle over a few drops of jelly to set 
the decoration. When this is quite set, put over another layer of jelly ; place on 
ice. Chop the chocolate, put it into a saucepan with enough of the milk to melt it ; 
let it boil ; then add the rest of the milk and the sugar ; stir it until it boils. Turn 




Fig. 202. — Charlotte au Chocolat a. la Hollandaise. 



the mixture into a basin, and let cool. Melt the gelatine in a httle water, strain it 
into the rest of the ingredients, flavour with vanilla to taste. Whip the cream a 
little, and stir it into the preparation. Trim the savoy biscuits, and place them 
round the mould, fitting them closely together. When the cream is half set, pour 
it into the prepared mould. Put into a cool place until firm. When ready to 
serve, dip the bottom of the mould into warm water to loosen the jelly, turn out 
on to a glass dish, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times* 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,544. CHARLOTTE DE POIRES (PEAR CHARLOTTE). 



Bartlett pears, 
pistachio -nuts. 



wine jelly (No. 
2,418). 



1 gill cream, 
sherry. 



I oz. sugar. 
I oz. gelatine. 



Line a plain charlotte-mould with a very thin layer of wine jelly. Drain the- 
pears, and then arrange a circle of them at the bottom of the mould, cutting tl.em, 
if necessary, to make them fit. Place a few chopped pistachio-nuts in the c-ntre 
where the pears meet. Set this in with a little liquid jelly. Cut four or five jf the 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 755 

pears in halves lengthways ; arrange these round the side of the mould, standing 
up, placing the first one with the thick end downwards, and the next one with the 
thin end down. Set these in with more wine jelly. It is best to place a smaller 
mould or a tumbler in the centre, and to fill round with the jelly. Rub some pears 
through a hair sieve, using any trimmings that may be left over, sufficient to make 
1 gill of pulp. Whip the cream, stir in the pear-pulp, flavour with a httle sherry. 
Melt the gelatine in one tablespoonful of the syrup from the pears, add the sugar, 
and dissolve over the fire. Strain into the pear-cream. Remove the glass from 
the centre of the mould by filling it with warm water. When the pear-cream 
begins to set. fill it into the hollow in the prepared mould. Put into a cool place to 
.set. When firm, dip into a basin of warm water, and turn ofi to a dish ; decorate 
round with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,545. CHARLOTTE DE MARRONS. 



savoy biscuits. 

royal icing (No. 2,178). 



1 gill water. 1^ gills cream. 



^ lb. chestnuts. 

4 ozs. sugar. vanilla. J oz. gelatine. 

Split the savoy biscuits in halves, straighten them down each side, and cut a 
small piece off one end of each. Arrange these standing round the sides of a plain 
charlotte-mould. Fasten them to each other \vith a little royal icing. Leave it 
to get quite set ; then lift it out of the tin, and place on the dish that it is to be 
served in. Make a slit in each chestnut, place them in the oven until the shells 
and inner skins can be removed. After this is done, boil the chestnuts until tender, 
strain them, and rub them through a fine sieve. Make a syrup with the sugar 
jtnd water ; when thick, mix it into the chestnuts ; also half the cream, whipped, 
and some vanilla essence. Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain into the chest- 
nuts, and when set put it into the middle of the biscuits. Whip the rest of the cream 
rather stiffly, pile this on the top of the charlotte, and serve at once. The biscuits 
must be filled at the last minute, or otherwise they will not stand. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



8 or 10 savov biscuits. 



preserved cherries, 
mixed fruits. 



2,546. CHARLOTTE MOSAIC. 

3 yolks of eggs. vanilla. J oz. gelatine, 

wine jelly (No. 2,418). 1 oz. sugar. 1 gill cream. | pint milk. I 

Have ready some mixed fruits, such as black and white grapes, cherries, apricots, 
etc., having as great a variety of colour as possible. Put a layer of these fruits 
at the bottom of a charlotte-mould, covering the bottom entirely, and arranging 
them carelessly. Set these in with enough wine jelly to cover them. Split the 
savoy biscuits, straighten the sides of each half-biscuit, and cut a small piece off 
one end. Line the sides of the timbale-mould with them, setting them upright 
and close against each other. Make a custard with the eggs, milk, and sugar, pour 
it into a basin, and flavour with vanilla. When it is cool, stir in 1 gill of whipped 
cream and a few of the mixed fruits, cut in small pieces. Melt the gelatine in a little 
water, strain it into the custard, and when nearly set pour into the prepared mould. 
Turn out on to a dish, garnish round with chopped wine jelly, and with a group of 
cherries in the centre of the charlotte. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,547. CHARLOTTE AUX PISTACHES. 



savoy biscuits. 

royal icing (No. 2,178). 



^ pint milk, 



1 oz. sugar. 



1 gill cream. 3 yoLks of eggs. ^ oz. pistachio-nuts 



^ oz. gelatine. 



Split the savoy biscuits in halves, coat the glazed side of eacli with royal icing, 
covering half of them with white icing, and the rest with pale green. If possible, 



756 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

these biscuits should be prepared the day before, so that they can set firmly before 
using. Line a plain charlotte-mould with a layer of paper. Cut some of the 
biscuits in halves, and these to a point at one end. Arrange them in a circle round 
the bottom of the mould, first white, then green, and so on until the bottom is 
covered. Stand the rest of the biscuits round the side of the mould, placing the 
colours as before. Make a custard with the milk, sugar, and eggs ; add the cream, 
slightly whipped, and the pistachio-nuts, blanched, peeled, and chopped. Melt 
the gelatine in a little water, strain it into the cream, and, when nearly set, fill it 
into the prepared mould. When firm, turn out, remove the paper, and place some 
chopped pistachio-nut in the centre of the charlotte, where the points of the biscuits 
meet. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. 
Sjflficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,543. CHARLOTTE A LA CREOLE. 



vanilla. 



1 oz. chocolate. 
I oz. gelatine. 



savoy biscuits. ^ pint milk. 1 gill cream. 

vp'ater icing (No. 2,176). 1 oz. sugar. 3 yolks of eggs. sherry. 

Split the savoy biscuits, coat the glazed side of each with water icing — one-third 
of them with white, one-third with pink, and one-third with chocolate. Put these 
aside to get perfectly set. Line a mould with paper. Cut some of the biscuits in 
halves, and then shape them to a point at one end. Arrange these round the bottom 
of the tin, alternating the colours. Stand the rest of the biscuits round the side of 
the mould, with the colours placed as at the bottom. Make a custard with the milk, 
sugar, and eggs, pour it into a basin, and add the cream, whipped. Divide this 
into three equal portions, colour one pink with cochineal, and fiavour with sherry ; 
one leave white, and flavour with vanilla ; and the last flavour with the chocolate, 
melted in a very little milk. Stiffen each of these custards with J oz. of gelatine, 
melted in water. When they are nearly set, fill them into the mould in layers. 
Turn out the charlotte, remove the paper, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,549. CHARLOTTE D'ANANAS (PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE). 
pineapple. | wine jelly (No. 2,418). | 1 gill cream. | pistachio-nuts. | J oz. sugar, j J oz. gelatine. 

Line a plain charlotte-mould with a thin layer of wine jelly. Cut some pine- 
apple into triangular-shaped pieces, and fit them round the bottom of the mould. 
Fill the space in the centre where they meet with a few blanched and chopped 
pistachio-nuts. Set these in with a httle wine jelly. Cut some strips of pineapple, 
about 1 inch broad, \ inch thick, and 3 or 4 inches long. (The preserved pine- 
apple chunks are the best for this dish.) Arrange these fiiigers standing round the 
side of the mould, fitting them closely together ; set in with wine jelly. Whip the 
cream, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of chopped pineapple. Melt the gelatine in 
a little of the pineapple syrup, add the sugar, and dissolve over the fire ; strain into 
the cream, and when it begins to set pour into the mould. When quite firm, turn 
out, and garnish with chopped wine jelly. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,550. CHARLOTTE MONTREUIL. 



savoy biscuits. 
\ pint milk. 



castor sugar. 



4 yolks eggs. 2 ozs. sugar. 1 gill cream. 

1 oz. gelatine. 1 gill peach puree. 3 ripe peaches. pistachio-nuts. 

Cut some of the savoy biscuits in halves, shape the halves into heart-shaped 
pieces, and form with them a rosette at the bottom of a charlotte-mould ; fill the 
hole in the centre with chopped pistachio-nuts. Line the sides of the mould with 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



757 



the same biscuits, straighten their sides, and fit them closely together. Put the 
milk and sugar into a ste\^^an, bring to the boil ; whip the yolks of eggs in a basin, 
pour the milk on to them, stirring while doing so ; return to the saucepan, and make 
the custard. Turn this into a basin, and let it get cold ; then mix in the peach 
puree. Whip the cream Hglitly, and stir it into the rest of the ingredients. Melt 
the gelatine in a httle water, and strain it into the mixture. Set this on ice, stir it 
occasionally, and as soon as it begins to set pour it into the prepared mould. The 
peaches are to be cut in slices, sweetened with castor sugar, and arranged in layers 
in the mould between the mixture. When the cream is quite set, turn it upside 
dowTi on to a dish, and lift the mould off carefully. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable, August to 
October. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,551. CHARLOTTE DE BANANES (BANANA CHARLOTTE). 

10 bananas. | 1 gill cream. | J oz. gelatine. | ^ oz. sugar. | wine jelly (No. 2,418). 
Rinse a plain charlotte-mould with cold water ; melt some wine jelly, and pour 
a very thin layer into the mould. When this is quite set, place a smaller mould in 




Fig. 203. — Charlotte de Bananes. 



the charlotte-tin, and fill between the two moulds with more wine jelly. Skin 
five of the bananas, split them in halves lengthways, and then across. Shape each 
of these into triangles, by cutting them to a point at one end. When the jelly is 
set, take out the smaller mould, by filling it with warm water and at once lifting it out. 
Arrange the pieces of banana on the bottom of the mould in a circle, with the points 
meeting in the centre, taking care that they fit closely. Pour a little liquid jelly over, 
and let it set. Skin the remaining bananas, and split them in halves lengthways ; cut 
a small piece ofE one end of each, and then arrange them round the sides of the mould, 
making them stand upright, and also cutting them to the proper length. Place a 
jar or tin in the centre, and fill round with more liquid jelly, in order to set the 
bananas. Rub all the pieces of banana that are left over through a hair sieve. 
Whip the cream, and then stir in the sieved banana. ]Melt the gelatine in a little 
water, stir in the sugar, and dissolve it over the fire ; strain this into the banana 
cream, and stir it occasionally until it begins to set. Remove the jar or tin from 
the charlotte-mould by filling it with warm water. Pour the banana cream into 



758 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

the cavity, and put aside to set. When quite firm, dip the mould in warm water 
to loosen the jelly, and then turn out on to a glass or silver dish. Garnish round 
with chopped wine jelly, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,552. BORDURE A LA PRINCESSE. 



2 eggs. 

2 ozs. sugar. 

vanilla essence. 



1 oz. butter. 

1 glass Marsala. 

2 ozs. chocolate. 



1 oz. ground 
almonds. 

2 ozs. flour. 



1 pint wine 

jelly. 

whipped cream. 



meringue shells, 
glace cherries, 
pistachio-nuts. 



Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, place the basin on a stewpan of hot 
water, and beat until the mixture is the consistency of thick cream ; remove from 
the water, stir in the flour, mixed with a little baking-powder, the ground almonds, 
and the melted butter. Stir all together quickly and hghtly. Pour the mixture 
into a well-buttered savarin border-mould, put in the oven, and bake for about 
fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, turn out on to a sieve to cool. As soon as 
the cake is cold, put it on to a plate, and pour over it a glass of Marsala or any 
kind of white wine ; let it soak. Take another border-mould, a size larger than the 
one the cake was baked in, pour into the bottom a thin layer of wine jelly ; let 
this set. Then decorate tastefully witb. glace cherries and pistachio-nuts ; sprinkle 
in some more jelly, so as to set the decoration. Melt the chocolate after it has 
been grated in a little wine jelly ; as soon as melted add sufficient jelly to it to line 
the mould all over. To do this, put in a layer of the chocolate jelly at the bottom 
of the mould, put on ice and let set, then coat the sides by turning the mould on 
ice until the jelly sets round the sides. When coated, put on ice to get firm. Next 
put the soaked cake carefully into the border-mould, add a httle wine jelly, just 
sufficient to set the cake, then fill up with jelly, taking care not to displace the 
cake in doing so. Put on ice to get quite set and firm. Whip some cream. Turn 
out the mould by dipping it in warm water, place it on a glass or silver dish, fill 
the centre with whipped cream, flavoured and sweetened to taste ; pile it up in the 
shape of a pyramid ; arrange some very small meringue shells in rows all over the 
cream, leaning against it. Colour a little whipped cream with a drop of cochineal 
a pretty pink colour, put this into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate 
between the meringues with it. The dish is now ready to serve. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



2,553. iLE FLOTTANTE (FLOATING ISLAND). 



2 glasses sherry. 
J glass brandy. 
A oz. almonds. 



pistachio- 
nuts, 
vanilla. 



2 ozs. sugar, 
f pint milk. 
4 yolks. 



2 whites of eggs. 
1^ gills cream, 
lemon-rind. 



1 sponge 

cake, 
apricot jam. 

Take a stale sponge cake, made in a tall mould, cut it into thin shces. Blanch 
the almonds, chop them finely. Spread the shces of cake with apricot jam, sprinkle 
over some chopped almonds. Put the shces together again, so that the cake is 
built up into its original shape. Place this on a plate, and pour over the wine 
and brandy ; soak it well. As the Hquor runs out, take it up with a spoon and pour 
over again ; continue in this way until the cake has absorbed the whole of the 
liquor. Boil the milk, sugar, and tliinly-peeled lemon-rind together ; beat the eggs 
in a basin, pour on to them, whilst stirring, the hot milk. Return to the saucepan, 
and make the custard in the usual way ; turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. 
Whip the cream, flavour with vanilla, sweeten to taste, and cover the cake all 
over with it. Chop some blanched pistachio-nuts, sprinkle them over the cream. 
Dish up the cake, pour the custard round the base of the dish, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 1 to H hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 





fi 




O 
CO 

<D 
C 

0) 
fcXI 
C 
CO 



/ 



^ 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 



759 



COLD SOUFFLES 

2,554. SOUFFLE A LA MILANAISE. 



3 eggs. 



4 ozs. sugar. 



2 lemons. 

1^ gills cream. 



few drops of 
vanilla. 



1 gill wine jelly. 

2 macaroons. 



Put the sugar into a basin, with the egg-yolks ; the whites of eggs put into 
another basin, and stand in a cool place until required. Whisk the yolks and sugar 
over a saucepan of boiling water until thick, the consistency of thick cream. Grato 
the rind of the lemons ; care must be taken not to remove any of the white pith, or 
the sweet will have a bitter taste. Squeeze out the juice of the lemons, strain it to the 
eggs and sugar, and add the rind. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, whiji 
the cream, add these to the other ingredients. Lastly, stir in the wine jelly, which 
h;'.s previously been whipped to a froth. Mix all well together, add a few drops of 
vanilla, and stir until beginning to set. Have ready a souffle-dish, with a band of 
paper tied round outside, coming 2 inches above the top of the mould. Turn the 




FiCi. 204. — iSoUFFLE A LA MlLANAISE. 



Bouffle into this, and place it in an ice-cave for two hours. When set and ready to 
serve, remove the band of paper carefully, and sprinkle the top with crushed 
macaroons. Dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,555. SOUFFLE D'ORANGES (ORANGE SOUFFLE). 



1^ gills cream. 
1 orange. 



^ oz. gelatine, 
pistachio-nuts. 



3 eggs. 1 gill orange-juice. 

2 ozs. sugar. grated rind of 2 oranges. 

Prepare a china souffle-mould by tying a band of paper round the outside so 
that it comes 2 inches above the top of the mould. Separate the yolks and whites 
of the eggs. Put the yolks into a basin with the sugar, stand it over a saucepan 
of boihng water, and whisk it until it becomes thick and the eggs are cooked. Take 
the basin off the water, add the orange-rind and juice. Whip the cream, and stir 
into the mixture ; also the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Melt the gelatine in a httle 
water, strain, and stir into the souffle. Pour into the prepared mould, and put on 
the ice to set. When quite firm, remove the band of paper. Peel the orange, tak(; 



760 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



away all pith and pips, break it into its natural divisions, and arrange them in a 
oircle on the top in the centre of the souffle. Decorate with slices of pistachio-nut 
in the form of a leaf, and with whipped cream through a forcing-bag. Dish up on a 
lace paper, and serve. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable, 
November to June. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 



2,556. SOUFFLE A LA PARME. 



3 eggs. 

3 ozs. castor sugar. 

1^ gills cream. 



1 oz. crystallized 
Parma violets. 
\ oz. gelatine. 



angelica. 
\ gill whipped 
cream. 



4 marrons glaces. 

vanilla essence. 

1 liqueur glass maraschino. 

Separate the yolks and whites of eggs ; put the yolks and sugar into a basin, 
and whisk them over a saucepan of boiling water until the consistency of thick 
cream. Cut the marrons glaces (chestnuts) into dice, put them into a basin, and pour 
over them the maraschino ; let them soak until required. Melt the gelatine in a 
L'ttle water. Keep a few of the violets back for decoration, and crush the remainder. 




Fig. 205. — Sodffl6 1 la Parmb. 



Whip the cream slightly ; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Stir the cream, 
the violets, gelatine, whisked whites, and the soaked chestnuts into the yolks of 
eggs and sugar, flavour with vanilla ; mix all well together. Stir over ice until the 
mixture begins to set, then turn into a mould, with a band of paper tied round the 
outside and coming 2 inches above the top. Let it set on ice. When ready to serve, 
take off the paper band carefully, and decorate the top with whipped cream through 
a forcing-bag, and with crystallized violets and angelica. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,557. SOUFFLE D'ABRICOTS (APRICOT SOUFFLE). 



4 eggs. 
J lemon. 



\ pint cream. 
4 ozs. sugar. 



\ oz. gelatine, 
pistaciiio-nuts. 



1 small glass maraschino. 
\\ gills apricot-pulp. 



chocolate sauce 
(No. 151). 



Prepare a souffle-mould by tying a paper band round the outside so that^^it 
comes 2 inches above the top of the mould. Separate the yolks and whites of 
the eggs. Put the yolks into a basin with the sugar, beat over a saucepan of hot 
water until the mixture becomes thick hke cream. Melt the gelatine in a httle 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) TGI 

water or apricot-juice ; whip 1^ gills of cream ; add this, the apricot-pulp, the 
gelatine, and the juice of lemon, to the yolks and sugar ; flavour with the maras- 
chino. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them lightly into the 
mixture, put the basin on ice, and stir until the preparation begins to set ; then 
))our into the prepared mould. Put on ice or into an ice-cave until quite firm. 
Before serving, take off the band of paper carefully. Whip the remaining | gill of 
cream stiffly, put it into a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe, and decorate the top of 
the souffle ; sprinkle over some chopped pistachio-nuts, and serve, accompanied with 
cliocolate sauce, either hot or cold. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable always. 
Sjfl&cient for 5 persons. 

2,558. SOUFFLE A LA PRINCESSE (PRINCESS SOUFFLE). 

1 gill milk. 1^ gills orange-juice or a 2 ozs. sugar. | lemon. 

3 eggs. puree of fruit. f oz. gelatine. cochineal. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan. Separate the yolks and whites of 
the eggs ; beat the yolks in a basin. When the milk is hot, stir it on to the yolks ; 
return to the saucepan, and make the custard. It must not boil. As soon as it 
thickens, strain into a basin, and let it get cold ; add to it the orange-juice, or a 
puree of any kind of soft fruit, such as apricots, strawberries, raspberries, etc. , 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Melt the gelatine in a little water, strain it 
into the custard. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, add it to the 
rest of the ingredients, stir all together lightly. Put the basin on ice, and stir 
until the mixture begins to set. Then turn it into a fancy mould, or into a souffle- 
dish with a paper band attached to it. When set, turn it out of the mould, garnish 
with chopped jelly round the base. If set in a souffle-dish, take the paper off, and 
send to table in the same dish. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 40 minutes to make. Seasonable always. 
S'jfficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

2,559. SOUFFLE DE GROSEILLES VERTES (GOOSEBERRY SOUFFLE). 
3 eggs. I 3 ozs. sugar. | 1^ gills cream. | J ^z- gelatine. | J pint green gooseberries. 

Top and tail the gooseberries, put them into a saucepan with a little water, 
and cook over the fiie until quite tender ; then rub through a hair sieve, keeping 
back twelve whole gooseberries. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, add 
the sugar to the yolks, and beat them together over a saucepan of hot water until 
the eggs are thick and creamy. Take the basin off the water, and stir in the sieved 
gooseberries. Whip 1 gill of cream, and stir it into the souffle. Whisk the whites 
of eggs very stiffly, and add also. Melt the gelatine in a httle water, strain it into 
the souffle, and keep it stirred occasionally until it begins to set. Have ready a 
souffle-dish, with a band of paper tied round the outside, and coming about 2 inches 
above the top. Pour the souffle into this, and put aside to get quite firm. Then 
remove the band of paper, scoop a little out of the centre of the mixture, and fill the 
liollow with the whole gooseberries. Whip the rest of the cream stiffly, put it into 
;l forcing-bag, and decorate the top of the souffle with it. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, April to May 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,560. MOUSSES AU CHOCOLAT. 

J lb. chocolate. I 2 ozs. chopped almonds 1 gill cream. 4 yolks nnd 1 white of egg. 



J oz. castor sugar. I or walnuts. 



vanilla or ratafia. 



^ gill milk. 



Cut up the chocolate, put it into a small stewpan, add the milk to it, and melt 
over the fire ; let it get cold. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and place this 
on a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk until it is the consistency of thick cream ; 
then remove the basin from the saucepan, and beat until the mixture is cold. 



762 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Whip the cream and stir it in gently ; add the melted chocolate. Blanch the 
nuts — either almonds or walnuts — chop them finely, and add them to the rest 
of the ingredients ; flavour with a few drops of vanilla or ratafia essence. Fill some 
custard-glasses with this mixture, and serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes to make. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



AU 



3 eggs. 

1^ ozs. sugar. 



CHOCOLAT. 

few drops vanilla. 
^ oz. almonds. 



1| gills cream. 
\ oz. gelatine. 



2,561. SOUFFLE 

2 ozs. chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful white wine. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, put the yolks into a basin with the 
sugar, whisk over a stewpan of boihng water until the consistency of thick cream. 
Blanch the almonds, chop them finely, place them on a baking-tin in the oven, 
and cook until a fight brown. Chop the chocolate finely, melt it in a fittle milk 
over the fire ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and whip the cream 
sfightly ; melt the gelatine in a little water ; mix all these ingredients together, 




Fig. 206. — Souffle au Chocolat. 

with the yolks and sugar, flavour with the wine and a few drops of vanilla essence. 
Stir the mixture over ice until beginning to set ; then turn into a souffle-case that 
has had a band of paper tied round the outside, coming 2 inches above the top of 
the mould. Place the souffle in an ice-cave or on ice until required. When about 
to serve, take off the paper carefully, and decorate the top of the souffle with 
whipped cream, using a forcing-bag and fancy pipe for this purpose. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



SIMPLE COLD SWEETS 

2,562. BANANA BLANC-MANGE. 
1^ pints milk. | 2 bananas. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 2^ ozs. cornflour. | 2 yolks eggs. [ vanilla. 

Mix the cornflour with a little of the milk to a smooth paste. Put the remainder 
of the milk into a stewpan with the sugar, and bring to the boil ; stir the cornflour 
into it. As soon as \i thickens, add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir over 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 763 

the fire until the eggs are cooked. Rub the bananas through a hair sieve, mix 
this puree into the cornflour ; flavour with vanilla. Pour this mixture into a mould 
that has been rinsed out wdth cold water ; put on ice or in a cool place to set. When 
ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, turn out on to a cold dish, and serve. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes to' make. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,563. COLD RHUBARB PUDDING. 
1 lb. rhubarb. [ 1 quart water. | 4 ozs. sugar. | 4 ozs. florador. | 1 lonaon. | cochineal. 

Wipe the rhubarb with a damp cloth, trim the ends, and cut it up into small 
pieces ; put it into a saucepan with the water and the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon ; 
bring to the boil, then sprinkle in the florador ; simmer until the florador is trans- 
parent. Take out the lemon-rind, add the strained juice of the lemon, and a few 
drops of cochineal to make it a pretty colour. Turn the mixture into a wetted 
mould, and let it set. Turn out, and serve with custard, or it can be eaten plain. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, January to July. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,564. TAPIOCA BLANC-MANGE. 
1^ pints milk. | 1 lemon. | 5 ozs. tapioca. | 2^ ozs. sugar. 
Put the tapioca into a basin, cover it with 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak 
for some hours. Put the milk on to boil, with the sugar and the thinly-peeled rind 
of the lemon. WTien the milk boils, stir in the tapioca, bring to the boil and simmer 
for twenty minutes. Pour into a wetted mould, and let it get cold. When firm, 
turn it out, and serve with any kind of stewed fruit. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,565. RICE SHAPE. 

1 quart milk. | 6 ozs. whole rice. | jam. 

Put the milk into a stewpan, bring to the boil, then sprinkle in the rice ; boil 

until the rice is tender and has absorbed the milk. When done, turn it into a 

wetted mould. As soon as it is cold and set, turn it out on to a dish, and serve 

with any kind of jam. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons, 

2,566, FAIRY BUTTER. 

J lb. butter. I ^ gill sherry. 4 hard-boiled yolks J lb. macaroons. J gill brandy. 

2 ozs. ground almonds. | J lb. sugar. of eggs. whipped cream. pistachio-nuts. 

Put the butter and the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs into a basin, and work 
them to a cream with a wooden spoon ; then add the ground almonds and sugar ; 
stir in the wine and brandy. Put a layer of macaroons in a glass dish, soak them 
^^dth sherry, then lay the mixture smoothly over. Whip some cream and pile it 
over. Chop a few pistachios, and decorate Avith them. 

Average cost, 2s. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,567. CHARLOTTE DE FRUITS (FRUIT CHARLOTTE). 

stale bread, | 1 lb. raspberries. | i lb. red currants. | sugar. | custard sauce. 

Remove the crust from some stale bread, then hne a pudding-basin Avith it by 
cutting it in fingers and fitting them closely together. Pick off the stalks from the 
fruit, place it in a saucepan, with a very little water, and sugar to taste. Stew 
over the fire until the fruit is done, and then pour half of it into the basin ; put a 
layer of bread, then the rest of the fruit. Cut a round of stale bread, place it on 
the fruity with a plate on top ; press until cold. As the juice comes out it should 



764 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



be poured back again, until the bread has absorbed it. Turn out on a dish, and 
serve with cold custard sauce. This sweet can be made with any kind of juicy fruit. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable in the summer. Suffi- 
cient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,568. LECHE CREME (MILK CREAM). 



1 white of egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls flour. | 3 yolks of eggs. 
1^ pints milk. I } lb. ratafias. 

Mix the flour in a basin with 1 gill of milk, add the well-beaten eggs. Put the 
rest of the milk into a stewpan with the sugar, bring to the boil. Pour the hot 
milk on the eggs, etc., quickly stirring meanwhile. Return the mixture to the 
saucepan, stir over the fire until thick. Arrange the ratafias in a glass dish, pour 
tlie mixture over. When quite cold it is ready to serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes to make. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 4 persons. 




Fig. 207. — Bird's-Nest Pudding. 



2,569. BIRD'S-NEST PUDDING. 



pistachio -nuts or 
cocoanuts. 



angelica. 
apricot jam. 



3 eggs. I 3 ozs. butter. \ pint blanc-mange. 

3 oz. flour. I 4 ozs. sugar. pinch of baking-powder. 

Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar to them, and beat over a saucepan of 
hot water until the mixture is the consistency of thick cream. Melt the butter ; 
sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Stir the butter and flour quickly and 
lightly into the egg mixture, turn into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn out when done, and let the cake get cold. 
Rub some apricot jam through a hair sieve, put a thin layer of this over the cake, 
roll it either in chopped pistachio-nuts or in desiccated cocoanut. Stand it on a 
dish. Have ready some blanc-mange eggs, fill the centre with these, and arrange 
round the base of the nest some pieces of angehca to represent twigs. The sweet 
is then ready to serve. The blanc-mange eggs are made by either filhng some egg- 
moulds with blanc-mange, or by emptying out some eggs, and using the shells. 
The eggs must be emptied through as small a hole as possible. When set, the shells 
are broken away carefully. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, l\ hours to make and set. Seasonable all 
the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 765 



2,570. RATAFIA-MOULD. 



ratafias. 



i oz, sugar. 



stale sponge 
cake. 



2 whites of eggs, 
cherries. 



i pint milk. i yolks of eggs. 

Well butter a dome-shaped pudding-mould, line it all over -with ratafias, pressing 
them on firmly to the mould. Three-parts fill the mould with alternate layers of 
slices of stale sponge cake and ratafias, placing a few cherries between each layer. 
Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, beat the eggs in a basin, and when the 
milk is hot, but not boiling, stir it on to the eggs. When this has cooled a little, 
pour it very carefully into the mould. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, place 
in a steamer, and let it cook very gently for about three-quarters of an hour. 
When the custard is firm, take it out of the steamer, turn out on to a dish, 
and allow it to get cold. Cream or custard can be served separately with this 
pudding. Care must be taken not to let it steam quickly, or the custard will be full 
of holes. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable aU the year. Sufficient 
for 4 persons. 



2,571. COLD CABINET PUDDING. 



apricot jam. 
stale bread. 



^ oz. gelatine. 
1 lemon. 



1 pint milk. 3 yolks of 

1 oz. sugar. eggs. 

Put the milk, sugar, and rind of the lemon in a saucepan, and heat over the fire. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, pour the milk on to them, return to the saucepan, and 
stir over the fire until the eggs are cooked ; it must not be allowed to boil. Pour 
the custard into a basin. Melt the gelatine in a httle water, and strain into 
the custard. Cut some shces of stale bread, spread them thickly with apricot 
jam, and loosely fill a timbale-mould with it. When the custard is cool, 
strain it on to the bread, cover with a saucer, and press until firm. Turn out, 
and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for -t persons. 



2,572. JAM SPONGE PUDDING. 



stale sponge cake, 
jam. 



wine. 

1 pint milk. 



1 oz. sugar. I 2 eggs, 
vanilla. | 2 yolks of eggs. 



Spht the sponge cake, spread thickly with any kind of jam, and put together 
again. Cut it into nice-sized pieces, place them in a deep dish, and pour a little 
vrine over them. Let this stand until the wine is absorbed. Put the milk and 
sugar into a saucepan ; when hot, but not boifing, pour it on to the beaten eggs. 
Return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until the eggs are cooked, but do not 
let it boil. When this custard has cooled, pour it over the sponge cakes, and then 
leave until quite cold. This pudding can be ornamented with glace cherries and 
angelica before serving. Stale swiss-roll may be used for this sweet, in which case 
the jam would not be required. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,573. CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE. 

1 pint milk. | IJ ozs. chocolate. ( J oz. sugar. | IJ ozs. cornflour. 

Grate or chop the chocolate very finely, put it into a saucepan with 1 gill of 
milk, stir over the fire until it is melted. 3Iix the cornflour with a httle of the 
remaining milk, put the rest into a saucepan with the sugar, and, when boiling, stir 
it on to the cornflour. Return to the saucepan, add the chocolate mixture, and 



766 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

stir over the fire until it boils ; let this cook for five or ten minutes. Rinse a mould 
with cold water, pour in the blanc-mange, and put away to cool. When firm, turn 
out, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 15 minutes to make. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,574. SAGO AND FRUIT SHAPE. 
J lb. fruit. I sugar to taste. | J lb. sago. | J pint water. 

Wash the sago, and put it to soak in 1 gill of water for fifteen minutes. 
Stew the fruit in 1 gill of water until tender ; sweeten it to taste. Stir in the 
sago and the water that it was soaked in. Cook over the fire for about ten to 
fifteen minutes. Rinse a mould with cold water, pour in the fruit and sago, 
and leave to set. When firm, turn out, and serve. Any kind of fruit can be used 
for this dish. 

Average cost, uncertain, according to the kind of fruit used. Time required, 
30 minutes to make. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,575. GROUND-RICE MOULD. 
1 pint milk. | 1 lemon. | 1 oz. sugar. | 3 ozs. ground rice. ( jam. 

Mix the rice with a little of the milk. Put the rest into a saucepan, with the 
Bugar and thinly-peeled rind of the lemon ; let this come very slowly up to the boil, 
then strain it on to the ground rice. Return to the saucepan, and stir over the 
fire for ten minutes. Pour into a mould that has been rinsed out in cold water, 
and leave it to set. Turn out, and serve with jam. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes to make. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 

2,576. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 

1 pint green gooseberries. | 1 pint milk. | sugar. 

Cut off the tops and stalks from the gooseberries, wipe them, and then put into 
a saucepan, with a httle water and sugar to taste. Cook these over the fire until 
the gooseberries are quite tender, then rub them through a hair sieve. Put this puree 
into a basin, and, if not sweet enough, stir in some more sugar. Mix in 1 pint of 
milk, pour it into a deep dish, and serve cold. This dish is greatly improved 
if cream is used instead of milk, or if | pint of cream and \ pint of milk is 
stirred in. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, April to June. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,577. ANANAS A LA NEIGE (PINEAPPLE SNOW). 



J pineapple. 1 glass sherry. 

2 ozs. sugar. 



I oz. gelatine. 



2 gills water. 2 whites of eggs. 

Take either a fresh or preserved pineapple, cut it up into dice, put this, with 
the water and sugar, into a stewpan, place on the fire, and bring to the boil ; simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Melt the gelatine in a Httle water, strain into the 
pineapple, turn all into a basin, add the sherry, and let cool. Whisk the whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients. Beat all together 
over ice until stiff. Dish it up in a pile on a glass dish, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
6 persons. 



ENTREMETS FROIDS {COLD SWEETS) 767 

2,578. COMPOTE DE RAISINS (COMPOTE OF GRAPES). 

1 or 2 bunches of black or white grapes. ( 1 gill water. | 4 ozs. sugar. 

Make a thick syrup with sugar and water. Pick the grapes from the stems very 

carefully, so as not to break the fruit, put them into the syrup, let them simmer in 

this for about five minutes. Leave until cold, and then pour into a compote-dish, 

and serve. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,579. LEMON SPONGE. 

1 lemon. | J pint water. | ^ oz. gelatine. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 1 white of egg. 

Melt the gelatine in the water over the fire, grate the lemon-rind, and add it to 
the gelatine. Strain the juice of the lemon into a basin, add the sugar, break in 
the white of an egg, strain the melted gelatine on to it, and whisk all together 
until quite stifi. Dish ap in a pile on a glass dish, or it can be put into a mould 
and turned out when required. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable always. Sufficient for 
6 persons. 



FT. X *^ 



CHAPTER XXIX 

GLACES (ICES) 

HINTS ON ICE.MAKING 

Follow the recipes exactly, using the ingredients mentioned in the right proportions. 

Too much sugar will prevent the ice getting firm. Too httle sugar will make 
the ice freeze too hard. 

All mixtures made for ices should be quite cold before putting into the freezing- 
machine. 

Always, before lifting the Hd of the freezer, wipe it, in order that no salt may get 

into the ice. 

Rough ice and freezing-salt are necessary to the freezing of ices. The quantity 
of salt to that of the ice is 1 to 8 — that is, 8 pounds of ice to 1 pound of salt. 

To prepare an ice-machine for freezing : Fix the centre cyhnder in position, put 
round it in the tub a layer of ice, which should be broken up small, then over this 
sprinkle a layer of salt ; then put in another layer of ice and salt in the same way. 
The freezing-pot should stand one-third above the ice, so that there is no danger of 
any salt getting into the mixture. When this is completed, pour the preparation 
to be frozen into the pot, put on the lid, fix on the top of the machine with the 
handle, turn this until the freezing is accomphshed. These machines are the most 
satisfactory for making ices, as they ccmtain two fans which revolve inside in a 
different direction to the cyhnder itself, and so loosen the part of the mixture 
nearest to the sides, and the ice is smoother than when mixed with a spatula. 
Sometimes the old-fashioned freezing-pot is used, which is put in a tub of ice and 
salt, in the above proportions. In that case the freezing-pot is turned by hand, 
and the preparation which freezes round the sides of the pot must be removed with 
a spatula, so that the preparation becomes equally frozen all through. The quaHty 
of the ice depends greatly on the way this operation is effected. 

2,580. THE MOULDING OF ICES. 

The moulds used for ices should be of pewter, made especially for the purpose, 
with close-fitting lids. Fill the mould or moulds carefully, press the mixture well 
down into the mould, put on the lid, and wrap it in grease-proof paper, in order 
to prevent the salt getting into it. If the lid is not perfectly tight, a piece of oiled 
paper should be put between the mould and the lid, so as to tighten it. When filled, 
pack it in a pail of ice and salt, and leave it there for one to two hours, according 
to the consistency of the ice. To serve, take the mould out of the pail of 
ice, take off the paper, wipe it so that there may be no danger of salt getting 
into it, dip it for a minute into cold water to loosen the ice from the side of the 
mould, and turn it out on to a dish, with a folded napkin arranged on it. Serve 
at once. 

There are many different kinds of ices, but they are all made from two great 
foundations — namely, custard, or cream ices, and water ices. To these may be 
added souffles, mousses, sorbets, bombes, parfaits, etc., which vary somewhat in 
their preparation. 

768 



GLACES {ICES) 769 

2,581. GLACE A LA CR^ME DE PRAISES (STRAWBERRY-CREAM ICE). 
1 lb. strawberries. | J pint cream. | a few drops of cochineal. | 3 ozs. castor sugar. 

Take the stalks off the strawberrias, rub them through a hair sieve with a wooden 
spoon. Wliip the cream shghtly, mix the strawberry puree into it, sweeten with 
the sugar, add a few drops of cochineal, and freeze as directed above. When the 
mixture is well frozen, pack it into a mould, and bury it in ice and salt until required. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,582. GLACE A LA VANILLE (VANILLA ICE-CREAM). 

IJ pints milk. | h pint cream. | 4 ozs. sugar. | 6 yolks of eggs. | ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence. 

Put the milk, with the sugar, into a stewpan, add the vanilla-pod ; beat the eggs 
in a basin ; let the milk get hot, but not boiling, strain it on to the eggs, stirring 
meanwliile. Return to the saucepan, and make the custard. As soon as it thickens 
strain it into a basin. Let the custard get perfectly cold, add the vanilla, then 
freeze it until half frozen. Whip the cream slightly, and pour it on to the custard. 
Continue to freeze until well frozen. Use as directed. 

Average cost. Is. 9d., exclusive of ice and freezing-salt. Time required, 15 
minutes to freeze. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,583. GLACE AU CHOCOLAT (CHOCOLATE-CREAM ICE). 



4 ozs. choco- 
late. 



1 pint milk. 
1 gill water. 



4 ozs. sugar. 



vanilla. 



4 egg-yolks. ^ pint cream. 



Grate the chocolate, put it into a stewpan with the water, and melt it. Boil 
the milk with the sugar, beat the eggs, pour the milk on to the eggs ; return to the 
saucepan, and stir until it thickens ; it must not boil. Turn the custard into a 
basin, add the melted chocolate to it, and let it get cold ; then add some vanilla 
essence. Put this mixture into a freezing-machine, and freeze in the usual way. As 
soon as it is half frozen, add the cream, shghtly whipped. Continue to freeze until 
the mixture is quite firm. Turn into a mould, bury in ice and salt until required. 

Average cost, exclusive of ice and salt. Is. lOd. Time required, 15 minutes to 
freeze. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 

2,584. GLACE AU MOKA (COFFEE ICE). 
1 pint good coffee. | 4 ozs. sugar. | vanilla. | J pint cream. | 1 gill milk. 

Make 1 pint of strong coffee, add the sugar and milk, flavour with a few drops of 
vanilla. Put this into a freezing-machine when cold, and freeze until half done. 
Whip the cream lightly, and add to the coffee ; continue to freeze until quite firm 
and hard. Pack the ice into an ice-mould, bury it in ice and salt, and keep it there 
until required. When ready to serve, turn it out on to a folded napkin, arranged 
on a dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, exclusive of ice and salt. Is. 6d. Time required, about 15 minutes 
to freeze. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 

2,585. GLACE A LA GRAPPE DE MUSCAT (MUSCATEL-GRAPE ICE). 
J lb. muscatel grapes. | 1 pint cream. | 1 glass sherry. | 1 lemon. | 1 gill syrup. 

Put the grapes on to a hair sieve, and rub the pulp through with a wooden spoon 
into a basin ; add the syrup and the juice of the lemon. Turn this into a freezer, 
and freeze until half frozen. Whip the cream shghtly, and add it to the grape 
mixture with the wine. Continue the freezing until the mixture is quite firm. 
Pack it into an ice-mould, and bury in ice and salt until required. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable in the 
summer. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



770 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,586. GLACE D'ABRICOT (APRICOT ICE). 

1 lb. ripe apricots. | 4 ozs. sugar. | \ pint cream. i 1 lemon. | I pint water. 

Slit the apricots in halves, take out the stones, and put the fruit into a stewpan, 
with the sugar and water ; put the pan on the fire, and simmer until the apricots 
are tender. When tender, rub the apricots through a hair sieve ; add the juice of 
the lemon to the puree. Turn into a basin, and let it get cold. Whip the cream 
lightly, and stir into the fruit pulp. Freeze in the usual way. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required to freeze, about 15 minutes. Seasonable, 
August to September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,587. GLACE A LA CR£ME DE BANANES (BANANA ICE-CREAM). 

6 ripe bananas. | 1 lemon. | 3 gills milk. | 4 yolks of eggs. | 3 ozs. sugar. | J pint cream. 

Skin the bananas, put them on to a hair sieve, and rub them through into a 
basin with a wooden spoon. Add to this puree the juice of one lemon. Put the 
milk into a stewpan with the sugar and the rind of the lemon ; beat up the yolks 
of the eggs in a basin, strain the milk on to them ; return to the saucepan, and 
stir until the custard is made. Mix this into the banana puree. Whip the cream 
lightly, and mix it to the rest of the ingredients as soon as the custard is cool 
enough. When quite cold, put the mixture into a freezing-machine, and freeze 

in the usual way. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable all the 
year. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

2,538. GLACE A LA CRfiME DE NOIX (WALNUT-CREAM ICE). 
4 ozs. walnuts. | 3 gills milk. | 4 ozs. sugar. | 5 yolks of eggs. | ^ \ pint cream. | vanilla. 
Take 4 ozs. of shelled walnuts, blanch and peel them, put into a mortar, and 
pound, with a Httle water added by degrees. Make a custard with the milk, sugar, 
and eggs, add the pounded walnuts to it, and pour into a basin ; let it get quite 
cold. Add a few drops of vanilla, and freeze until half frozen. Whip the cream a 
little, then add it to the half-frozen ice. Continue the freezing process until the 
ice is'fijm. Mould, and pack in ice and salt until required. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 15 to 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, 
September to December. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,589. GLACE NAPOLITAINE (NEAPOLITAN ICE). 



\ pint strawberry puree. 3 gills cream 

1| pints milk. 



vanilla essence. 



1^ ozs. chocolate, 
cochineal. 



4 yolks of eggs. 4 ozs. castor sugar. 

Put the milk and sugar into a stewpan, and bring to the boil ; beat the yolks of 
eggs in a basin, stir the milk on to them ; return to the saucepan, and stir until it 
thickens and the custard is made ; strain into a basin and let it cool. Then divide 
it into three equal portions, putting each into a separate basin. IVIix with one of 
these parts 1 gill of cream and the strawberry puree ; colour with a little cochineal. 
Vv'ith another part mix in a gill of cream, and flavour with vanilla. Grate the 
chocolate, melt it in a stewpan with about ^ gill of water, stir this into the third 
portion ; add 1 gill of cream. Each of these preparations must be frozen separately. 
These ices are packed in brick-shaped moulds, with lids at the top and bottom. 
The respective ices are put into the mould in layers. Pack the mould in ice and 
salt for two to three hours. Turn out of the mould, cut it up into pieces, and 

serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, June to August. 

Sufficient for 6 persons. 



GLACES {ICES) 771 

2,590. GLACE AUX AMANDES (ALMOND ICE-CREAM). 



4 0Z3. ground almonds. 



4 0Z8. sugar. 



3 gills milk. 
a few drops ratafia. 5 egg-yolks. i pint cream. 

Pound the almonds with 2 ozs. of sugar and sufficient water to make it into a 
paste, add a few drops of ratafia essence. Put the milk and 2 ozs. of sugar into a 
stewpan, beat the eggs in a basin, stir the hot milk to the eggs ; return to the sauce- 
pan, and stir until the custard is made. Add the almond paste, mix well, turn 
the preparation into a basin, and let it get quite cold ; then put the custard into a 
freezing-machine, and freeze until half frozen. Whip the cream a little, and add 
to the ice. Continue to freeze until the mixture is firm and. quite frozen. Pack 
into a mould, and bury in ice and salt until required. 

Average cost. Is. lOd. Time required, 15 to 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 



4 ozs. brown bread- 
crumbs. 



2,591. GLACE AU PAIN BIS. 

1 pint milk. 6 yolks of eggs. ^ pint cream 

1 oz. cake-crumbs. 



4 ozs. castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful brandy. 

INIix the bread and cake crumbs together in a basin. Make a custard with the 
milk, sugar, and yolks of eggs, then strain it into a basin, and let it get cold. Whip 
the cream slightly, mix the crumbs into it, and the brandy. Half freeze the custard 
in the usual way, then add the cream mixture ; finish freezing. Mould in the usual 
way, pack in ice, and salt until required to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 15 to 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 



2,592. GLACE D'ORANGE (ORANGE ICE). 

I pint orange-juice. 1 pint milk. 4 ozs. loaf sugar, 

rind of 1 orange. 6 yolks of eggs. J pint cream. 

Make a custard with the milk, sugar, and eggs ; rub the orange-rind on the 
lumps of sugar before adding it to the milk. Pour into a basin, and let cool ; then 
add the orange-juice. Freeze the custard until half frozen, then add the whipped 
cream, and continue the freezing process until the ice is quite firm and soUd. Mould 
in the usual way, and pack in ice until required. 

Average cost, Is. lOd. Time required, 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, 
November to June. Sufficient for 10 persons. 

2,593. POUDING GLACE A LA REINE (ICE PUDDING, QUEEN STYLE). 



1^ pints milk. 



4 ozs. sugar. 



6 yolks of eggs. 4 ozs. glace fruits. 



^ pint whipped cream, 
vanilla essence. 



1 oz. candied citron. 
1 glass maraschino. 

Make a custard with the milk, eggs, and sugar ; when done, strain it into a basin, 
and let it get quite cold. Cut up the fruits — i.e., apricots, cherries, pears, etc. — • 
into small dice, put them into a basin, and pour over the maraschino ; cut the citron 
in the same way, and mix with the fruit. Flavour the custard with a few drops 
of vanilla essence, put it into a freezing-machine, and half freeze it. Then add the 
fruits, maraschino, and the cream, lightly whipped. Continue the freezing process 
until the mixture is quite firm and solid. Pack this into an ice-mould, wrap the 
mould in paper, and bury it in a pail of ice and salt until required. When ready to 
SCTve, dip the mould into cold or tepid water, and turn out on to a folded napkin 
arranged on a dish. Ice biscuits should be served with this pudding, either served 
separately or used to garnish round the dish. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable at all 
times. Sufficient for 10 to 12 persons. 



772 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,594. POUDING GLACE AUX FIGUES (ICE PUDDING WITH FIGS). 

1 pint milk. 4 oz. sugar. 3 ozs. preserved figs. raspberry-water ice (No. 

4 egg-yolks. J pint cream. ^ gill rum. 2,601). 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan ; beat up the eggs in a basin, pour the 
hot milk on to them ; return to the saucepan, and make the custard, which must 
not be allowed to boil. Cut the figs into small pieces, pour the rum over them, 
and let them soak for one hour. Put the custard into an ice-machine, when cold, 
and half freeze ; then add the whipped cream and the figs. Line a mould with the 
raspberry-water ice, fill the centre with the above mixture, put a layer of the water 
ice over the top. Cover the mould tightly with the hd, putting a piece of oiled 
paper between to prevent any salt penetrating ; wrap the mould in a piece of grease- 
proof paper, and pack it in ice and salt for one to two hours. When ready to serve, 
wipe the mould carefully, take off the lid and oiled paper, dip the mould into cold 
water, and turn out on to a folded napkin arranged on a dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d., without ice and salt. Time required. 20 minutes to freeze. 
Seasonable at all times, if raspberry jam or syrup is used. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



2,595. POUDING GLACE A LA NESSELRODE. 



2 ozs. sultanas. 

2 ozs. candied citron. 



1 gill Madeira wine, 
vanilla. 



1 pint milk. I 8 ozs. sugar. I 2 lbs. chestnuts. 

6 egg-yolks. 1 \ pint cream. ! 2 ozs. glace cherries. 

Make a custard with the milk, eggs, and sugar, pour into a basin, and let it get 
quite cold. Cut the cherries and citron into dice, add the cleaned and picked 
sultanas to them, put into a basin, and pour over the gill of wine. Slit the chestnuts, 
put them in a cool oven, and bake until the shells and skin can be easily removed ; 
then boil them in milk until tender ; drain, when tender, and rub them through a 
hair sieve. Add this puree to the custard ; flavour with a few drops of vanilla 
essence. Freeze this mixture until half frozen, then add the fruit and wine and the 
cream, partly whipped. Continue the freezing until the mixture is firm and 
thoroughly frozen. Pack the mixture into an ice pudding-mould, bury in ice and 
salt. When required to serve, turn it out on to a folded napkin, and serve quickly. 
The pudding may be garnished round the base with a circle of marrons glaces 
(candied chestnuts). 

Average cost, 2s. lOd. Time required, 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, 
November to February. Sufficient for 10 to 12 persons. 



2,598. CHARLOTTE GLACE A LA PRINCESSE. 



\ pint milk. 
3 egg -yolks. 



1 glass Madeira, 
savov biscuits. 



cochineal, 
vanilla. 



2 ozs. loaf 2 ozs. glace fruits, 

sugar. \\ gills cream. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan ; beat the eggs in a basin, and as soon as 
the milk is nearly boihng stir it on to the eggs ; return to the saucepan, and make 
a custard ; strain into a basin, and let it get cold. When the custard is quite cold, 
put it into an ice-machine, and half freeze. Whip 1 gill of cream, cut up the fruit 
into dice, add these to the half-frozen mixture, with the wine. Continue to freeze 
until quite frozen and firm. Line a charlotte-mould round the sides with savoy 
biscuits, trim the edges so that they fit closely together, fill the centre with the ice 
mixture ; put into an ice-cave or refrigerator for about two hours. When about 
to serve, whip the remaining i gill of cream, turn out the shape carefully, colour 
the cream a pale pink with a few drops of cochineal, decorate the top of the charlotte 
with this, piping on the cream through a forcing-bag or paper cornet with a 
rose-pipe attached to it. This must be done quickly, and sent to table without 
delay. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 i hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 



GLACES {ICES) 773 

2,597. GLACE DE FRAMBOISE EN SURPRISE. 

f pint cream. ) f pint raspberry puree. | sugar to taste. | ^ lb. fresh raspberries. 

IMix the cream, lightly whipped, with the puree of raspberries, sweeten to taste ; 
put this into an ice-machine, and freeze. When quite frozen and firm, pack it into 
an ice-mould until it is about three parts full ; then with a spoon make a hollow 
in the centre of the ice, working the ice up so that it lines the sides of the mould. 
Have the fresh raspberries ready picked and sprinkled with sugar, fill the hollow 
in the ice with these, cover with more ice, fasten down the hd securely, and bury in 
ice and salt until required. When ready to serve, dip the mould in cold or tepid 
water, and turn out quickly on to a folded napkin, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, June 
to August. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

Instead of raspberries, strawberries or any other kind of fruit can be used for 
this ice, changing the name according to the fruit used. 

2,598. GLACES FANTAISES EN SURPRISE. 

^ lb. loaf sugar. | 1 pint water. | 4 lemons. 

Peel two lemons very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the white pith. 
Put the rind into a saucepan with the water and sugar, place on the fire, and let it 
boil for about ten minutes until a syrup is made. Pour it into a basin, and let it 
get cold. Squeeze all the juice from the four lemons, and strain it into the sjnrup. 
Put this mixture into the freezer, and freeze in the usual manner. Open some small 
fancy moulds, lay them on a bed of ice and salt, and fill them with cold water. 
Leave these for about half an hour, then feel them to see if a coating of ice has formed 
round them ; if so, take them out of the ice, empty the unfrozen water away, and 
fill the centre with the lemon-water ice. Close the moulds tightly, wrap each in 
grease-proof paper, and bury in ice and salt for about three-quarters of an hour. 
Take them up, wipe carefully to remove all the salt, dip in tepid water, turn out 
on a folded napkin, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient 
for 8 to 10 moulds. 

WATER ICES 

2,599. GLACE AU CITRON (LEMON-WATER ICE). 

1 pint water. | ^ lb. loaf sugar. | 4 lemons. 

Peel two lemons very thinly ; put the rind into a stewpan with the water and 

sugar, put on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes, until a syrup is made. Turn 

into a basin and let it get cold, squeeze the juice from four lemons, strain it into 

the syrup. Freeze in the usual way. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of ice and salt. Time required, 15 minutes to freeze. 
Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

2,600. GLACE A L'ANANAS (PINEAPPLE-WATER ICE). 
1 lb. pineapple. | 1 pint water. | ^ lb. loaf sugar. | 1 lemon. 

Peel the pineapple — or tinned pineapple can be used — cut it up, and put it into 
a mortar, pound it to a pulp. Make a syrup with the water and sugar, put the 
pounded pineapple into a basin, pour the syrup over it, and let it stand for two 
hours, then rub through a sieve, add the lemon-juice, and freeze the mixture in the 
usual way. 

Average cost, exclusive of ice and salt, with fresh pineapple, 2s. 6d. ; with tinned, 
6d. Time required, 15 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, October to April, if a real 
pine is used ; preserved, at all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



774 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,601. GLACE AUX FRAMBOISES (RASPBERRY- WATER ICE). 



IJ lbs. raspberries. 
1 pint water. 



J lb. loaf sugar. 2 whites of eggs. 
red-currant juice. 



cochineal. 

Prepare the raspberries, rub them through a hair sieve ; add to this a httle red- 
currant juice. Put the water into a small stewpan, add the sugar to it, and simmer 
for ten minutes ; remove any scum that rises. Mix this syrup with the fruit, turn 
it into a basin, and let it get quite cold. Freeze until half frozen, then beat up the 
whites of the eggs and add to the mixture. Continue to freeze until the mixture 
is quite firm. Use as directed. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. Suffi- 
cient for 8 persons. 

2,602. GLACE AUX GROSEILLES (RED-CURRANT-WATER ICE). 
1 pint red-currant juice. | 1 pint syrup. 

Rub sufficient red currants through a hair sieve to make 1 pint of juice, mix 
this with 1 pint of perfectly cold sjnrup. Put the mixture into a freezer, and freeze 
until the preparation is firm and thoroughly frozen. When ready, the ice can be 
either packed in a mould and buried in ice and salt until required, or served on ico 
plates, or in glasses. 

Average cost. Is., exclusive of ice. Time required to freeze, 15 minutes. Season- 
able, June and July. Sufficient for 12 persons. 

2,603. GLACE AUX MANDARINES (TANGERINE-WATER ICE). 
6 tangerines. | 1 J pints water. | 1 lb. loaf sugar. | 1 lemon. | 2 oranges. 

Peel four of the tangerine oranges very thinly, so as to take the yellow part 
only. Put this into the water in a stewpan with the loaf sugar, put the pan on the 
side of the fire until the sugar is melted, then simmer until it becomes a syrup ; 
it will take about fifteen minutes to boil. Strain the syrup into a basin, and let it 
get cold. Squeeze the juice of the six tangerines, the lemon, and two ordinary 
oranges. Strain the juice into the syrup. When this preparation is quite cold, 
freeze it in an ice-machine in the usual way. Serve either moulded or roughly in 
glasses or ice plates. 

Average cost. Is., exclusive of ice and salt. Time required, 15 minutes to freeze. 
Seasonable, November to February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2.604. GLACE AUX POIRES (PEAR-WATER ICE). 

1 lb. Wilham pears. | | lb. loaf sugar. | 1 pint water. | 2 lemons. 

Peel and core the pears, cut them in small pieces, put them into a stewpan with 
the water and sugar, simmer until the pears are soft, then rub them through a hair 
sieve. Add the lemon-juice, strained. Let it get quite cool, then freeze in the usual 
way. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 15 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, August to 
December. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

2.605. GLACE AU MELON (MELON-WATER ICE). 

1 ripe melon. | 1| pints water. | J lb. sugar. | 1 lemon. 

Peel the melon, cut it into quarters, and remove the seeds ; shce the fruit into 
small pieces, peel the lemon very thinly. Put the pieces of melon into a stewpan ; 
add the water, lemon-rind, and sugar ; cook until the melon is tender and semi- 
transparent. Pass all through a hair sieve into a basin ; add to the puree the juice of 
the lemon. Freeze in the usual way. Put the ice into a mould or serve in glasses. 

Average cost, 9d., exclusive of ice and salt. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, 
August to March. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 



GLACES {ICES) 775 

2,606. GLACE AUX PRAISES (STRAWBERRY-WATER ICE). 
1^ lbs. strawberries. | 1 pint water. | ^ lb. loaf sugar. | 1 lemon. 
Take the stalks off the strawberries, rub them through a hair sieve, strain the 
lemon-juice to the puree. Put the water into a small stewpan, add sugar to it, 
and simmer for ten minutes. Remove any scum that rises. Mix with the fruit, 
and let it get quite cold. Freeze in the usual way, and, when ready, either mould or 
serve in glasses. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. Suffi' 
cient for 8 to 10 persons. 

ICED SOUFFLES 

2,607. SOUFFLE GLACE AU MARASQUIN (ICED SOUFFLE WITH 

MARASCHINO). 

4 yolks of eggs. | 1 gill water. | 4 ozs. loaf sugar. | 1 glass maraschino. | 1^ gills cream. 
Put the water and the loaf sugar into a stewpan, pl^ce the pan on the side of the 
fire until the sugar is melted, then boil for about ten minutes, until it becomes a 
syrup. Take off the scum. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, beat them, and then 
stir in the syrup. Add the maraschino, stand the basin on a saucepan of boiling 
water, and whisk until it is the consistency of thick cream. Put a thick band of 
paper round the outside of a souffle-mould, so that it comes 2 inches above the top 
of the mould. Add the cream, whipped, to the souffle mixture, and pour it into the 
mould. Place the mould in an ice-cave or in a tin box with a lid. If the latter 
is used, bury the box in a pail or refrigerator filled with ice and salt, and let it remain 
for about three hours ; renew the ice as required. When about to serve, remove 
the band of paper, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, Is. 4d., exclusive of ice and salt. Time required, 2 J hours. Season- 
able at all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,608. SOUFFLE FRAPPE AUX FRAMBOISES (ICED RASPBERRY SOUFFLE). 



4 ozs. castor sugar. 



3 eggs. ^ lemon 



2 gills cream. 1 gill raspberry 



^ oz. gelatine. 

a few ripe raspberries. 



puree. 

Put the yolks of the eggs and the sugar into a basin, beat over a saucepan of hot 
water with a whisk until it becomes the consistency of thick cream, then add the 
juice of the lemon and the raspberry-pulp ; stir until cold. Melt the gelatine in a 
little water, stir it into the mixture, whip IJ gills of cream Hghtly, and mix it in. 
Lastly, heat the whites of the eggs very stiffly, stir them in very lightly and quickly. 
Have ready a souffle-mould with a band of thick paper tied round the outside, so 
that it comes 2 inches above the top of the mould. Pour the mixture into the mould, 
and place the souffle in an ice-cave or on the ice for two hours. Before serving, 
scoop out a little of the centre of the souffle, pile the fresh raspberries in this so that 
they stand up above the surface. Whip the remaining | gill of cream stiffly, put ii 
into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached, and decorate the top of the souffle 
with it. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2i hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,609. PETITS SOUFFLES DE MOKA (LITTLE COFFEE SOUFFLES), 
f pint strong coffee with milk. | vanilla. | ^ pint cream. | 4 ozs. castor sugar. | 3 eggs. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, put the yolks into a basin with the 
sugar, and beat them over hot water until creamy, then remove from the water and 
add the coffee. Stir over ice until cold, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. 
Whip the cream Hghtly, and stir it into the coffee mixture ; whip two whites of eggs 



776 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

to a stiff froth, and stir them into the rest of the ingredients. Have ready some 
small paper or china cases, with a band of paper tied round the outside. Fill with 
the mixture, place them in a charged ice-cave or refrigerator for two hours. Dish 
on a folded napkin, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2J hours. Seasonable at any time. 
Sufficient for 12 cases. 

2,610. MOUSSES AU RHUM (RUM MOUSSE). 
1 pint cream. | J gill rum. | 3 ozs. castor sugar. 

Whip the cream over ice in a basin until fairly stiff, then stir in the sugar 
and, lastly, the rum. Put this mixture into small souffle cases, and place in a 
refrigerator charged with ice and freezing salt for two hours. Dish the little cases 
on a folded napkin, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 4d. Time required, 2J hours. Seasonable at any time. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 



2,611. MOUSSE A L'ANANAS (PINEAPPLE MOUSSE). 



8 ozs. pineapple. 
J pint cream. 



2 ozs. castor 
sugar. 



1 oz. gelatine. 1 glass white wine. \ gill wine jelly. 



2 whites of eggs. 



glace cherries. 



1 lemon. 

Cut the pineapple into dice, put it into a mortar, and pound ; then rub it through 
a fine sieve. Add to this puree the juice of the lemon and the wine. Whip the cream, 
and add to it the mixture. Melt the gelatine in a little water, add the sugar to it, 
and strain it into the rest of the ingredients. Put a layer of wine jelly at the bottom 
of a fancy mould. When set, decorate it with glace cherries ; let this set on ice. 
When ready to mould, whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir them 
lightly to the preparation. Pour this into the prepared mould, and place on ice or 
in an ice-cave for two hours. When about to serve, dip the mould into warm 
water, and turn it out on to a dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2| hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 

2,612. PARFAIT DE PRAISES (PARFAIT OF STRAWBERRIES). 
1 lb. strawberries. | \ lb. loaf sugar. | 2 gills water. | J pint cream. | 2 whites of eggs. | 1 lemon. 

Pick the strawberries, and rub them through a hair sieve. Prepare a souffle- 
dish by fixing round it a band of paper coming 2 inches above the top of the mould. 
Put the I pound of sugar into a stewpan with the water, put it at the side of the stove 
until the sugar is dissolved, then boil until it is reduced to a syrup. Whisk stiffly 
the two whites of eggs, pour the syrup on to them, place the basin containing then\ 
on a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk for fifteen to twenty minutes. Take 
the basin off the water, and stir in the puree of strawberries ; add the strained juice 
of the lemon. Whip the cream, and stir it into the rest of the ingredients. Put 
the basin on ice and whisk until it is cold, then pour it into the prepared mould, 
and place it in an ice-cave for three hours. When about to serve, remove the band 
of paper, and decorate the top with ripe strawberries. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 4 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,613. SOUFFLE DE PECHES (PEACH S0UFFL£). 



3 yolks of eggs. 1 lemon. preserved peaches. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



1 glass maraschino. 
I gill peach syrup. 



^ pint cream. J oz. gelatine. 

Kub the preserved peaches through a hair sieve until the puree measures \ pint. 

Put the yolks and castor sugar into a basin, stand the basin on a saucepan of hot 

water, and beat it with a whisk until the mixture is the consistency of thick cream ; 

then add the juice of the lemon and the puree of peaches. Melt the gelatine in the 



GLACES {ICES) 111 

\ gill of peach syrup, strain into the eggs, add the maraschino, stir this over ice 
until nearly cold, then whip the cream, keeping back J gill of the same. Mix the 
whipped cream into the preparation. Tie a thick band of paper round the outside 
of a souffle-mould, so that it comes 2 inches above the top of the mould. Turn 
the mixture into this just as it is beginning to set. Put the souffle into an ice-cave, 
or on ice, for two hours. Before serving, take off the paper band, whip the remain- 
iiig I gill of cream stiffly, put this into a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a rose- 
pipe attached to it, and ornament the top of the souffle with it. Sprinkle over some 
chopped pistachio-nuts, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 2\ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2.614. PARFAIT AU CAFE. 

6 yolks of eggs. | 3 ozs. sugar. | 1 gill coffee. | 1 gill cream. 

Put the yolks of the eggs and the sugar into a basin, place this on a saucepan of 
boiling water, and whisk until it becomes the consistency of thick cream. Take 
the basin off the saucepan and add the coffee, strong and freshly made ; let the mixture 
cool. Whip the cream, stir it into the above preparation. Put the mixture into 
a mould with a lid, wrap it in paper, and bury it in a pail of ice and salt, or into 
an ice-cave for two to three hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into cold 
water, turn out on to a folded napkin, and serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

2.615. PARFAIT AU THE. 

This is the same as the last recipe, using tea instead of coffee. The tea should 
be freshly made and not too strong. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 5 persons. 

BOMBES 

2,616. BOMBE GLACEE A LA VENITIENNE (ICED BOMBE, VENETIAN 

STYLE). 
1 pint strawberry-cream maraschino. whipped cream. 



ice (No. 2,581) 



castor sugar. 



\ pint vanilla-cream ice (No. 2,582). 

Line a bombe-mould with the strawberry ice ; inside this put a layer of vanilla- 
cream ice ; leave a hollow in the centre of the ice. Whip sufficient cream to fill 
this hollow, sweeten and flavour with maraschino. Fill the centre, cover over the 
top with one of the ice-creams, bury the mould in ice and salt for two to three hours. 
When ready to serve, turn out on to a folded napkin, and send to table at once. 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,617. BOMBE GLACE D'ABRICOT (APRICOT BOMBE). 

1 pint apricot-cream ice | stewed apricots. | pint syrup. 1 lemon. 

(No. 2,586). I 4 egg-yolks. 1 gill cream. 1 small glass kirsch. 

Put the egg-yolks into a basin, add to them the syrup, and whisk over hot water 
until of the consi.stency of thick cream. Take it off the water and whisk it over 
ice until it is cold, then add the juice of the lemon and the liqueur, and lastly, the 
whipped cream. Line a bombe-mould with apricot ice-cream, and fill the centre 
with the above preparation, putting it in the mould in layers with stewed apricots. 
Cover the top with the apricot ice. Put a piece of paper over the top, and then 
the lid of the mould ; bury it in ice and salt for two to three hours. When ready 
to serve, take it out of the ice, wipe it well with a damp cloth, taking care to remove 



778 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

every particle of salt ; remove the lid and the piece of paper, dip quickly in cold 
water, and turn out on to a napkin arranged on a dish. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2J to 3^ hours. Seasonable at any time. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

2,618. BOMBE GLACE MOUSSELINE. 
1 pint strawberry ice (No. 2,581). | \ lb. strawberries. | 1 gill cream. | castor sugai. 

Line a bombe-mould with strawberry ice. Rub the strawberries through a hair 
sieve, sweeten them with castor sugar, whip the cream, and add it to the strawberry 
puree. Have this mixture ready, and as soon as the mould is Lined, put it into the 
centre, cover the top with a layer of the strawberry cream, put over a round piece of 
paper, then the hd, and bury in ice and salt for two or three hours. Turn out, and 
serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2J to 3 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 



2,619. BOMBE A LA NESSELRODE. 



1^ pints vanilla ice-cream 

(No. 2,582). 



1 gill chestnut 
puree. 



vanilla essence, 
castor sugar. 



h pint cream. 
I gill syrup. 

Whip the cream, prepare the chestnut puree, mix with it the \ gill of syrup, stir 
this into the cream, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence, and add sugar to 
taste. Line a bombe-mould with vanilla ice-cream, and fill the centre with the 
cream preparation, cover with more of the ice, put a piece of paper over, put on the 
lid, and bury in ice and salt for two to three hours. Unmould, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 2J to 3| hours. Seasonable, November to 
February. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 

2,620. BOMBE TUTTI-FRUTTL 
1 pint strawberry ice 3 yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. 4 ozs. glace fruits. 



(No. 2,581) 



1 lemon. 



1 oz. castor sugar. 



gill syrup. 

Put the yolks and syrup into a basin, place on a saucepan of hot water, and beat 
until thick ; then remove from the hot water, and whisk over ice until cold. Whip 
the cream, add the sugar to it, flavour the egg mixture with the juice of the lemon, 
stir in the cream, cut the fruit into dice, and mix in. Line a bombe-mould with 
strawberry-cream ice, fill the centre with the above mixture, cover over with more 
ice, and freeze in the usual way. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 

2,621. BOMBE GLACEE AU CHOCOLAT. 

1 pint chocolate-cream ice (No. 2,583). | ^ pint vanilla ice-cream (No. 2,582). | ice wafers. 

Line a bombe-mould with chocolate ice, fill the centre with vanilla ice-cream, 
put a layer of chocolate ice over the top, place a round of paper over the top, put 
on the hd, and bury in the ice and salt for two to three hours. Turn out, and serve 
at once. Garnish round with ice wafers. 

Average cost, 28. 6d. Time required, 2J to 3J hours. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 

2,622. BOMBE A LA MARIE LOUISE. 
\\ pints raspberry ice. | ^ pint syrup. | 4 egg-yolks. | vanilla essence. ) 1 gill cream. 

Put the eggs and syrup into a basin, stand it on a saucepan of hot water, and 
beat until the mixture is the consistency of thick cream. Take it off the water, 
and whip on ice until cold. Whip the cream, add it to the preparation, flavour 



GLACES {ICES) 779 

with vanilla essence. Line a bombe-moiild with the raspberry ice, fill the centre 
with the above mixture, cover the top with a layer of the ice, put a piece of paper 
3n the top, and the lid, and bury the mould in ice and freezing salt for three hours. 
Unmould in the usual way, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable, June to August. 
Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 

2,623. OMELETTE SOUFFLE EN SURPRISE. 
genoise cake. | 1 pint cream. 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. castor I angelica 



3 whites of eggs. I vanilla ice (No. 2,582) 



vanilla. 



sugar. I cherries. 



Cut the genoise cake into an oval shape, about IJ inches thick. Scoop out a 
little of the centre, and place it on a dish. Upon this arrange some vanilla ice, 
which must be very well frozen, in the shape of a souffle-omelet. Have ready a 
meringue mixture, made as follows : Cream the yolk of the egg with the sugar, 
flavour with vanilla, whip the three whites very stiffly, mix them into the yolk, 
cover the ice-cream quickly with this mixture, sprinkle thickly with castor sugar. 
Put the dish into a hot oven, just long enough to set and brown the meringue. 
When it is removed from the oven, garnish it quickly with a few cherries and a few 
strips of angelica. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 2s. 9d. Time required, 10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,624. SURPRISES D'ORANGES. 

4 oranges. | ^ pint water. | \ lb. sugar. | 1 lemon. | 2 whites of eggs. [ 1 oz. castor sugar. 

Put the water into a stewpan with the | pound of sugar, boil and reduce to a 
syrup. Cut the oranges in halves, scoop out the pulp with a teaspoon, taking care 
not to break the skins. Rub the pulp through a hair sieve, add to it the juice of 
the lemon ; pour the syrup on to this, and let it get quite cold, then freeze the 
mixture in the usual way. When frozen, fill the skins of the oranges with it. Beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiffly, stir in the sugar hghtly, and pile it on the oranges, 
taking care to cover the ice completely. Put the oranges into a hot oven, and 
bake for a few minutes, just long enough to set and brown the meringue. Serve 
at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,625. ORANGES GLACEES A LA NAPOLITAINE (ICED ORANGES, 

NEAPOLITAN STYLE). 

4 oranges. | vanilla bavaroise (No. 2,430). ( wine jelly. ( cochineal. ( 1 oz. chocolate. 

Cut a circular piece out of the top of each orange, scoop the inside out carefully 
with a teaspoon, taking care not to break the skins. Divide the custard into three 
parts, colour one part pink, leave one part plain, and to the other stir 1 ounce of 
melted chocolate. Now through the opening at the top of the oranges fill them 
with the three different coloured custards in equal layers, putting between each 
layer a layer of wine jelly. When the oranges are filled, replace the piece which 
was cut out, wrap each orange in grease-proof paper, and put them on ice or in an 
ice-cave for two or three hours. When ready to serve, cut each orange in quarters, 
dish upon a folded napkin, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Seasonable, November to June. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,626. PECHES MELBA. 

6 peaches. | 1 pint vanilla ice-cream (No. 2,582). | syrup. | vanilla. | raspberry pur6e. 

Cut the peaches in halves, take out the stones. Make a syrup, flavour it with 
vanilla, put in the peaches, and cook them until tender. When done, drain by 



780 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

placing them on a sieve and let them get quite cold. Put a layer of vanilla ice on 
a dish, dish the peaches on it, and coat them with a raspberry puree. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d., or 4s. if preserved peaches are used. Time required, after 
ice is made, 10 minutes. Seasonable, August to October, or at all times if pre- 
served peaches are used. Suflficient for 12 persons. 

This dish was invented by Monsieur A. Escoffier, chef of the Carlton, who also 
invented for this dish a Melba sauce, which takes the place of the raspberry puree, 
and which can be obtained at stores, etc. 

2,627. PRAISES A LA MELBA (STRAWBERRIES A LA MELBA). 

1 lb. fine strawberries. | IJ pints vanilla ice-cream. | Melba sauce. | castor sugar. 

Arrange a border of ice-cream in a deep dish, take the stalks off the straw- 
berries, put these in the centre of the border in a pile, sprinkle well with castor sugar 
as they are placed in the dish. Cover the fruit well with Melba sauce ; put another 
layer of ice-cream over the strawberries, shape it into a dome shape. Serve at once. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes, after ice is made. Seasonable, 
June to August. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,628. MANDARINES GLACfiES. 
6 tangerine oranges. ) tangerine ice (No. 2,603). 

Cut a circular slice out of the top of each orange. Scoop out the inside carefully, 
so as not to break the skins. With the juice of the tangerines make some tangerine 
ice. Fill the tangerine skins with this preparation, put back the piece that was 
cut out of the top of the orange, brush the outside of the fruit all over with water, 
and put them in a refrigerator or ice-cave until the tangerines are covered with 
frost. Then dish them on a napkin, and serve quickly. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. Seasonable, December to 
February. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,629. MERINGUES GLACEES. 
12 meringue shells (No. 2,457). | vanilla ice-cream (No. 2,582). 
Make the vanilla ice-cream, fill the meringue shells with this, put the shells 
together in twos. Dish them on a folded napkin, and serve at once. Any kind of 
ice-cream would do instead of the vanilla. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

2,630. COUPES DE PECHES. 



6 small preserved J gill syrup, 
peaches. | pint cream. 



1 gill milk. 
1 lemon. 



strawberries, 
angelica. 



Peel the lemon very thinly, put it into a stewpan with the milk, and bring it 
slowly to the boil. Pass the peaches through a hair sieve, add the syrup to them, 
and strain on to the milk. Partly freeze this mixture ; whip the cream and add it. 
Continue to freeze, but not too stiff. Fill up some glasses with the mixture, put 
a strawberry on the top of each, and some angelica cut out in the shape of leaves. 
Serve when ready. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

2,631. COUPES JACQUES. 
lemon-water ice (No. 2,599). | strawberry ice (No. 2,581). | mixed fresh fruit. | maraschino. 

Fill some glasses one-third full with lemon-water ice, and one-third with straw- 
berry ice. Have ready a compote of fresh fruit flavoured with marascliino. Put 
this on the top of the ice. Serve at once. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 10 minutes, after ice is made. Season- 
able, June to August. 



GLACES (ICES) 



781 



SORBETS, GRANITES, ETC. 

These preparations are very light, and only slightly frozen ices. They are served 
in cups, sherry or punch glasses, and should be semi-liquid, of such a consistency 
that they can be drunk. These ices are served after the entrees, as a help to diges- 
tion, and a refreshment of the palate before the roast. 

2,632. SORBET AUX PRAISES (STRAWBERRY SORBET). 

1 pint strawberry-water ice (No. 2,606). | J gill Sauteme wine. ( 1 lemon. 

Prepare the strawberry-water ice, but only half freeze it. At the last moment, 
just before serving, add the wine and lemon-juice. Mix well, and serve in cups 
or glasses. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 15 minutes, after syrup is cold. Seasonable, 
June to August. Sufficient for 6 cups. 

2,633. SORBET A LA CREME (CREAM SORBET). 
^ pint cream. | 1 lemon. | 1 orange. | ^ gill sherry. | 2 egg-whites. | 6 ozs. sugar. | 1 pint water. 

Put the water and sugar into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and simmer for ten 
minutes, then add the juice of the lemon and orange. Pour into a basin and let 
cool. Freeze in the usual way until the mixture is partly frozen, then add the 
whipped whites of eggs and the cream ; freeze again to the right consistency, just 
before serving stir in the wine. Serve in cups or glasses in the usual way. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 10 to 15 minutes to freeze. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 7 or 8 cups. 

2,634. SORBET D'ORANGE (ORANGE SORBET). 



6 oranges. 

1 gill white wine. 



6 ozs. loaf sugar. 
1 quart water. 



1 lemon. 

2 whites of eggs. 



IJ ozs. castor 
sugar. 



Put the water into a stewpan, add the loaf sugar to it, and bring to the boil. 
Simmer for ten minutes. If any scum rises, skim it off. Grate the rind of two 
oranges, strain the juice of the oranges and lemon, put these into the sjrrup, and 
turn into a basin to get cold. Partly freeze this mixture, whip the whites of the 
eggs very stiffly, stir the castor sugar into them, and add to the ice mixture. Finish 
freezing until the right consistency has been attained. Before serving, stir in the 
wine. Serve in glasses or cups. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, 
November to June. Sufficient for 10 to 12 cups. 



2,635. SORBET DE CITRON (LEMON SORBET). 



6 lemons. 
1 orange. 



1 quart water. 
6 ozs. loaf sugar. 



IJ ozs. castor 
sugar. 



2 whites of eggs. 
1 gill white wine. 



Put the water into a saucepan with the loaf sugar, place the pan on the side 
of the &:e until the sugar is melted, then bring to the boil, and simmer for ten 
minutes. Grate the rind of two lemons, iidd this and the juice of all the lemons 
and the orange to the syrup ; cook a few minutes longer, strain into a basin, and let 
cool. Freeze this mixture partly ; whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffiy, mix 
in the castor sugar, add to the ice preparation, and continue freezing until the right 
consistency has been attained. Before serving, stir in the wine, mix well, and 
serve. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, 
November to June. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



782 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,636. PUNCH A LA ROMAINE (ROMAN PUNCH). 

f gill rum. 



1 pint sjTup. 

I bottle champagne 

juice of 2 oranges. 



juice of 2 lemons. 
2 small pieces of orange and 
lemon rind. 



2 whites of eggs. 

3 ozs. castor sugar. 



Add the juioe of the oranges and lemons, also the rind very thinly peeled, to the 
syrup, and let it stand by the side of the fu-e for half an hour, then strain the syrup 
into a basin, and let it get cold. Add the champagne. Put this mixture into 
an ice-machine, and freeze until partly frozen. Whisk the whites of the eggs, 
stir in the castor sugar, and add to the ice mixture ; work with a spatula vigorously 
and, before serving, add the rum by degrees. If this mixture is too thick to be 
poured into the glasses in which it is to be served, a httle more champagne can be 
added. The punch should be of a thick, creamy liquid. 

Average cost, 5s. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 

2,637. PUNCH AU LAIT (MILK PUNCH). 
1 quart milk. | 4 ozs. loaf sugar. | 1 orange, | 1 lemon. | 1 gill cream. | \ gill rum. 
Put the milk into a saucepan with the rind of the orange, the lemon-rind, and 
the sugar. Bring to the boil slowly, so as to dissolve the sugar ; then strain into a 
basin and let cool. When cold, freeze to the right consistency ; then add the whipped 
cream, the juice of the orange and lemon, and the rum. Mix all well together ; 
freeze again. Fill into little china cups, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 

2,638. GRANITE DE CITRON (LEMON GRANITE). 
IJ pints lemon-water ice (No. 2,599). | 1 small glass maraschino. 

The lemon-water ice must be only partly frozen, then add the glass of maras- 
chino. Mix well together, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 

2,639. GRANITE AU VIN DE BORDEAUX (CLARET GRANITE). 
6 oranges. | J pint syrup. | 1 pint water. | 1 bottle claret. 

Make the syrup with 6 ounces of sugar and \ pint of water ; put into this the 
thinly-peeled rind of one orange, let this infuse by the side of the fire for half an 
hour. Strain this into a basin, and add the juice of the oranges and the pint of water ; 
let cool. Freeze in the usual way. When partly frozen, add the claret. Mix 
well, and serve. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable, November 
to June. Sufficient for 10 persons. 

2,640. GRANITE D'ANANAS (PINEAPPLE GRANITE). 
1 preserved pineapple. | f pint water. \ 6 ozs. castor sugar. | J giU brandy. | \ gill sherry. 

Cut up the pineapple, put it into a mortar, and pound well ; add to it \ pint of 
water, and rub through a fine sieve. Put this into a stewpan, and add the sugar. 
Boil up, turn into a basin, and let cool. Freeze in the usual manner. When partly 
frozen, add 1 gill of water and the flavouring. Mix all well together, and serve in 
the usual way. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 10 minutes to freeze. Seasonable at aU 
times. Sufficient for 10 persons. 



CHAPTER XXX 

BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 

Home-:made bread and cakes are always appreciated if well made, and there is no 
reason why tliis branch of cookery should be neglected, as it often is, by the house- 
keeper. Cakes, especially, can be made at home with ease, and the satisfaction of 
turning out a well-made and well-baked cake appeals to the good housewife. Again, 
Avho does not like sometimes to see a home-made loaf ? Change of bread is always 
pleasant, and we can obtain the desired end by a little practice and patience. If 
attention is paid to a few necessary rules in these subjects, success will be assured. 
Yeast used in bread-making requires warmth in order to make it ferment, or " rise," 
therefore one secret of bread-making is to have everything warm during the process 
of making. The water or milk added to the yeast should be warm ; if not, the 
yeast takes longer to ferment, and the dough takes longer to rise ; but beginners 
must remember not to make it too hot, or the yeast will be killed, and not rise at all. 
The dough must be placed in a warm place to rise, taking care that it is not in a 
draught. 

The dough must be well kneaded, and put in a hot oven at first. If this is not 
done, the loaf wiU spread in the oven, and the flavour will not be improved. The 
quantity of water required for making bread cannot be accurately given in all cases. 
The qijantity depends on the quahty of the flour. The better and finer the flour, 
the more water will be required to moisten it. 

There are three chief ways of making cakes. The first method is used foi 
making plain cakes. The butter or dripping is rubbed into the flour in the same 
way as for short pastry ; the dry ingredients, such as sugar, fruit, spice, etc., are 
added, and lastly the eggs and milk. All are then well mixed together. The 
second way is used for fruit, Madeira, seed cakes, etc. The butter and sugar are 
creamed together, the eggs beaten in one at a time, the flour and fruit stirred in 
lightly and quickly at the last. In the third waj' the eggs and sugar are beaten 
together until thick and creamy, then the flour stirred in lightly and quickly. This 
is used for sponge cakes principally, and cakes of that texture. These cakes 
require a cool oven. Fruit cakes should be put first into a hot oven for the first 
half-hour, and then into a cooler place for the remainder of the time. Very rich 
cakes, like wedding-cakes, should be baked in a cool oven. 

Care must be taken to insure the right consistency of cakes. The mixture 
should be fairly stiff. If too moist, the fruit wall sink to the bottom. Cake-tins 
should be Uned with paper, the paper coming a short distance above the top of the 
tin, so that the cake is protected as it rises. For rich fruit cakes, experience has 
shown that it is best not to grease the paper or tin. The cake is not so liable to 
burn, and the paper can be removed easily when done without injury to the cake. 
On the other hand, if tins are lined with paper for sponge cakes or Swiss rolls the 
paper should be greased. 

As soon as the baking-powder or other rising medium is added to the mixture, 
the cake should be put into the oven as quickly as possible. As the baking-powder 
begins to work as soon as wetted, it is necessary that heat should be apphed at 
once. 

PT. X. 783 CO 



784 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

One important rule must be mentioned here. While cakes are baking, never 
bang the oven door. By doing so, a draught of cold air is sent into the oven. This 
causes the cake to fall, and leads to heaviness. Also the oven door should not be 
opened too often while the cake is baking. 

When the cakes are baked, they should be turned on to a sieve to cool, so that 
the steam can pass off. If turned on to a dish or flat on a table, the cake would 
be sodden, as the steam at the bottom could not escape. The cake must not be 
put into a draught while cooling. 

2,641. HOUSEHOLD BREAD. 

^h lbs. flour. I 1 oz. German yeast. | 1 teaspoonfui castor sugar. | 1 teaspoonful salt, j 1^ pints water. 

Put the flour into a large basin, mix in the salt. Put the yeast into a small 
basin, add the sugar to it, and cream them together with a wooden spoon till quite 
liquid. Pour on to this 1^ pints of tepid water. Mix well together. Make a well 
in the centre of the flour, and pour the yeast mixture into it. Sprinkle a little of 
the flour from the side over the top, and set it to rise for twenty minutes. After 
this, work in the flour with the hand until smooth, cover the basin with a cloth, 
and set it to rise for one and a half to two hours. At the end of that time turn the 
dough out on to a floured board, and knead it for a quarter of an hour. Divide the 
dough into two parts ; each part will make one half-quartern loaf. If cottage loaves 
are to be made, divide each part in two pieces, one piece smaller than the other. 
Make these into balls, and place the smaller one on the top of the larger. Pass the 
finger through the centre. If the dough is to make tin loaves, the tins are well 
greased and floured. Put half of the above quantity into each tin, prick the top, 
and set to rise for about half an hour. Bake the bread in a hot oven (260°) for a 
quarter of an hour, then move into a cooler part for about half an hour. Wlien 
done, turn out of the tins, and ctand on their sides to cool. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 2 half-quartern loaves 



^ lb. white flour. 
I oz. German yeast. 



[2,642. BROWN BREAD. 

1 lb. wholemeal flour, j 1 teaspoonful salt. I about \ pint and J giU 
J oz. butter. | 1 teaspoonful sugar. | tepid water. 

Mix the two flours together in a basin, add the salt, rub in the butter. Mix 
the yeast and sugar together in a small basin until quite liquid, pour on to it the 
tepid water. It is best to use \ pint first, and if not sufficient, use a Httle more. 
Stir the yeast and water together until well mixed. Make a well in the centre of 
the flour, and pour in the yeast mixture. Mix in the flour with the hand until it 
is a smooth paste, cover with a cloth, and set to rise in a warm place for about 
one and a half hours. Then turn it out on to a floured board, and knead for fifteen 
minutes. Cut the dough into two pieces, make each piece into a ball, make two 
small cuts across, intersecting each other. Put these on a floured baking-tin, and 
bake in a hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 2 small loaves. 

2,643. WHEAT-MEAL BREAD. 

If lbs. wheatmeal. 1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

\ oz. yeast. \ pint water, 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, then add the water and make just luke- 
warm. Put the wheatmeal into a large basin, mix in the salt. Put the yeast 
into a small basin, add the sugar to it, and work them together with a wooden 
spoon until Hquid ; then add to it the water and butter. Make a well in the centre 
of the flour, and pour in the yeast mixture. Stir a little of the flour into this, 
cover with a cloth, and set ia a warm place to rise for half an hour. At the end of 
t hat time work in the rest of the flour. If necessary, add more water, which should 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



785 



be lukewarm. Put to rise again for one hour ; then turn on to a floured board, and 
knead well for ten minutes. Divide the dough into tw^o parts, and make each part 
into a round shape. Make a cross-slit with a knife on the top of each, and bake in 
a hot oven for about one hour. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 2 loaves. 



1 lb. dough. 

2 ozs. butter. 



4 ozs. currants, 
nutmeg. 



2,644. DOUGH CAKE. 

2 ozs. sugar, l 1 oz. candied 
2 eggs. I peel. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; cut up the peel into small pieces. Put the 
dough into a basin, beat in with the hand all the above ingredients, divide the 
mixture into two parts. Grease two tins, and put half in each. Set these in a 
warm place to rise until they are double the size. Bake the cakes in a hot oven for 
about forty minutes. Turn out of the tins, and stand on their sides until cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Sufficient for 2 cakes. 




Fig. 208. — Vie>na Bread. 



2,645. VIENNA BREAD. 
1 lb. flour. I 1 egg. [ 1 oz. butter. | ^ teaspoonful sugar. | J pint milk. [ | oz. yeast. | salt. 

Put the flour and a little salt into a large basin. Mix the yeast and sugar 
together in a small basin with a wooden spoon until liquid. Melt the butter in a 
small saucepan, add the milk, and make it just lukewarm. Pour this on to the yeast, 
mix well. Make a well in the centre of the flour, pour in the yeast mixture, work 
in the flour, and make into a dough. Set this dough in a warm place to rise for 
about two hours. Turn on to a floured board at the end of that time, and knead 
the dough for ten minutes. Divide into pieces, and make into rolls. Place these 
on a floured tin, put in a warm place to prove for ten minutes ; then bake in a 
quick oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 10 to 12 rolls. 

2,646. DOUGH-NUTS. 
1 lb. flour. I 1 oz. German yeast. | 1 oz. butter. | 3 gills milk. | salt. | jam. | castor sugar. 

Put the flour into a basin, mix into it a little salt. Put the yeast into a small 
basin, add about J teaspoonful of castor sugar. Cream these together with a 
wooden spoon until liquid. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the milk, and 

50—2 



786 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

make it just lukewarm. Pour this on the yeast, mix well together, add it to the 
flour, stir in the flour, and make into a stiff dough. Cover with a piece of paper 
or cloth, and put to rise in a warm place for two hours. When ready, turn the 
dough on to a floured board, and knead it well for ten minutes ; then divide it into 
small pieces, flatten shghtly with the hand, put a little jam on each, work the 
dough round the jam, so as to completely enclose it. Put these on a floured tin 
to rise in a warm place for ten minutes. Have ready a saucepan of hot fat. Drop 
in three or four. They must have plenty of room. Turn them over with a spoon, 
so that they may be the same colour all over. They will take four or five minutes 
to fry. Have ready a paper tliickly sprinkled with sugar. Take the dough-nuts 
out of the fat, put them at once into the sugar, and shake it well over them. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 12 to 14 nuts 



2,647. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. 

1 teaspoonful castor | salt, 
sugar. 1 egg. 



f lb. flour. I li ozs. butter 



oz. German yeast. ! 1| gills milk. 

Put the flour into a basin, add some salt to it. Cream the yeast and sugar 
together in a small basin until liquid. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add 
the milk to it, and make lukewarm. Beat the egg, add the milk and butter. Pour 
this on the yeast, mix all well together. Make a well in the centre of the flour, 
strain in the yeast mixture, and mix well. Cover with a cloth, and set it to rise 
for one hour ; then turn on to a floured board, and knead for ten minutes. Divide 
the mixture into two parts. Grease two timbale-moulds, put in the dough, and 
set to rise in a warm place for about fifteen minutes. Bake in a hot oven for another 
fifteen minutes. Instead of putting the dough into tins, it can be divided into four 
pieces, made into round cakes, set to rise for ten minutes, and then baked. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Sufficient for 2 to 4 cakes. 

2,648. SODA BREAD. 

2 lbs. flour. I 1 oz. tartaric acid. | 1 oz. carbonate of soda. | 1 pint milk. | salt. 

Sieve the flour, salt, and tartaric acid into a basin. Dissolve the soda in the 
milk, and pour it into the flour. Mix together into a dough. Turn on to a floured 
board, knead smooth, then make up quickly into loaves or rolls, and bake for about 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, IJ hours. 

2,649. DERBY SHORT CAKES. 

4 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. sugar. | ^ lb. flour. | 1 egg. | a little milk. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter with the fingers, stir in the sugar. 
When well rubbed in, beat the egg, mix some milk with it, and stir it into the flour. 
Add more milk if necessary, until a stiff paste is made. Turn on to a floured board, 
and roll out thinly. Cut into fancy shapes, brush them over with white of egg, 
dust over with castor sugar, place them on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish up, and serve either hot or cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



1 lb. flour, 
salt. 



2,650. SODA SCONES. 

I teaspoonful carbonate | teaspoonful tartaric acid. 

buttermilk or sour milk. 



of soda. 

Put the flour into a basin, mix into it a little salt, the soda and tartaric acid. 
Add sufficient buttermilk, or if that is not to be had, sour milk, to make into a 
very soft past^ Turn this on to a well-floured board, roll it out rather less than 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 7u7 

^ inch in thickness, and cut it into rounds or triangle shapes. Bake these on a hot 
girdle or iron frying-pan that has been sprinkled with flour, cook for about ten 
minutes, turning them over when half done. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 scones. 



I lb. wholemeal tlour. 
4 ozs. white flour. 



2,651. WHOLEMEAL SCONES. 

3 ozs. butter. salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. milk. 

Put the wholemeal and the white flour into a basin, mix in a little salt and the 
baking-powder, rub in the butter with the fingers, and, when well mixed, make it 
into a soft dough with milk. Turn on to a floured board, roll out rather thinly, 
cut it out with a round or oval cutter about IJ inches in diameter. Place these on 
a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. 
If liked, sugar may be mixed into the flour. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 scones. 

2,652. DONSIDE SCONES. 

^ lb. flour. I 2 ozs. butter. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

I lb. oatmeal. | 1 teaspoonful sugar. milk. 

Mix the flour, oatmeal, sugar, and baking-powder together. Rub the butter in 
lightly, mix with enough milk to bind. Turn out on a floured board, roll out rather 
thickly, and cut into small rounds. Place in a moderate oven, and cook for about 
ten minutes. When baked, split them open, butter them, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. 



2,653. IRISH FADGE. 



1 lb. wholemeal flour. 
J lb. white flour. 

2 eggs. 



salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

1 dessertspoonful vinegar. 



3 ozs. lard. 

3 ozs. dripping. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Put the flours, salt, soda, and baking-powder into a basin ; rub in the lard and 
dripping. Beat the eggs in a basin, add the vinegar, and mix into the dry in- 
gredients. This should be a stiff dough. Roll out, cut into triangles, bake in a 
fairly hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Butter them, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,654. TEA CAKES. 



12 ozs. flour. 
4 ozs. butter. 



1 egg. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 

milk. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. 

Put the flour into a basin, add the baking-powder, rub in the butter with the 
fingers, then add the sugar. Beat the egg in a basin, add a little milk to it, and 
w'ork into a firm paste. Turn on to a floured board, divide the dough into four 
equal pieces. Shape these pieces into balls, flatten them with the hand, place 
them on a floured baking-tin, and bake for about twenty minutes. When done, 
split open and butter them. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 cakes. 

2,655. CREAM SCONES. 

J lb. flour. I J teaspoonful baking-powder. | 2 ozs. butter. | ^ gill milk. | ^ gill cream. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin, rub in the butter with the 
fingers, add a little salt, and mix to a soft paste with the milk and cream. Turn 
on to a floured board, roll it out J inch thick, cut out with a round cutter. Place 
tliem on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen 
minutes. When nearly ready, brush over with milk and butter in equal quantities 
mixed together. Put back into the oven to finish cooking. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 to 8 scones. 



788 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,656. MILK ROLLS. 

1 lb. flour. I 1 teaspoon^ul baking-powder. | 3 ozs. butter. ] milk. | salt. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin, rub in the butter with the 
fingers, then mix it into a fairly firm dough with the milk. When mixed, turn the 
dough on to a floured board, cut it into twelve equal pieces, and make each piece 
into a roU. Put these on to a floured baking-sheet, and bake for about fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 rolls. 



1 lb. flour. I 3 ozs. butter. | 



2,657. SCONES. 

milk. I 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



\ oz. sugar. 



Put the flour into a basin, mix with it the baking-powder, and about ^ oz. of 
castor sugar. Rub in the butter with the fingers, mix to a dough with milk, turn 
on to a floured board, and roll it out rather thinly. Cut into rounds with a 2-inch 




Fig. 209.— Scones. 



round cutter, arrange these on a floured baking-sheet, and bake for about fifteen 
to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. These scones can be eaten hot or cold. 
If hot, cut open as soon as baked, and butter them. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 scones. 





2,658. 


YORKSHIRE SPICE CAKE. 




2 lbs. flour. 
6 ozs. butter. 


i lb. lard, 
salt. 


f oz. German yeast. 
1 gill water. 


2 eggs. 

1^ lbs. currants. 


J lb. sugar 
nutmeg. 



Put the flour into a basin, mix in some salt, rub in the butter and lard. Cream 
I the yeast with a little sugar, then add the water lukewarm. Make a well in the 
centre of the flour, pour in the yeast, stir in some of the flour to make a batter. 
Sprinkle a little more flour over, and put in a warm place to rise. When bubbles 
appear on the surface, knead it thoroughly, adding more water if necessary, and 
let it rise again. When it has risen sufficiently, work in the currants (picked and 
cleaned), the sugar, the grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten eggs. Make it into 
loaves, put into tins, filling them only haK full. Set to prove in a warm place. 
Bake until done in a quick oven. 

Average cost. Is. lOd. Time required, 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 cakes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 789 

2,659. YULE CAKES. 

1 lb. flour. I I oz. German yeast. ^ lb. butter. , 2 eggs. I | lb. currants. 

1 saltspoonful salt. | | lb. moist sugar. | pint water. | 1 nutmeg. ! | lb. mixed candied peel. 

Sieve the flour with the salt into a basin, cream the yeast with ^ teaspoonful of 
castor sugar until liquid, add to it ^ pint of lukewarm water. Pour this into the 
centre of the flour, and work into a dough. Cover with a cloth, and put it in a 
warm place to rise. Beat the butter to a cream, and, when the dough has risen 
sufficiently, add the butter, sugar, the cleaned and picked currants, the finely- 
chopped candied peel, the grated nutmeg, and the two eggs well beaten. Mix all 
well together, fill into buttered tins, half filling them ; set to_rise again, then bake 
for one and a half to two hours in a moderate oven. When done, turn out, and let 
them get cold. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 4 hours. Sufficient for 2 cakes. 



2 eggs. 
salt. 



2,660. HOT APPLE CAKES (1). 

1 lb. flour. 3 ozs. bro^vn sugar. | 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

4 ozs. dripping or butter. 1 lb. apples. I powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin, rub in the dripping or butter, 
add the sugar and a pinch of salt. Peel and core the apples, chop them finely, mix 
them into the flour and dripping. Beat the eggs in a basin, pour into the dry in- 
gredients, and make into a dough, using a little milk if it is not moist enough. 
Well butter a Yorkshire-tin, put in the mixture, place in a moderate oven, and 
bake for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, cut into fingers, dish on a 
pile on a hot dish, sprinkle over thickly with castor sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, September to May. 



1 lb. flour. I 1 egg. 

i pint milk. ! ^ oz. yeast. 



2,661. HOT APPLE CAKES (2). 

1 oz. butter. ^ teaspoonful castor flugar, 
salt. 1 lb. apples. 

Sieve the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin ; cream the yeast and sugar 
together until liquid. Beat the egg in another basin. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, add milk, and let it get warm. Pour this on to the beaten egg. Wlien this 
egg and milk is tepid, stir it on to the yeast, mix into the flour. Cover the basin 
with a cloth, and put to rise in a warm place for one hour. Peel and core the apples, 
chop them finely. Turn the dough on to a floured table, knead it well for fifteen 
minutes, working in the chopped apples by degrees as it is kneaded. Well butter 
a large Yorkshire-tin, turn the apple cake into it, and place in a warm place to rise 
for ten to fifteen minutes. At the end of that time put it into a hot oven, and 
bake for twenty to thirty minutes. WTien done, take it out of the tin, spht the 
cake through, spread it with butter, and dust with sugar. Place the halves together 
again, and cut into fingers. Dish up in a pile on a hot dish, dust over with castor 
sugar, and serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable, September to May. 



2,662. APPLE CAKE (3). 



14 ozs. flour. I salt. 



^ teaspoonful I J lb. apples. 2 ozs. sugar, 

i oz. yeast. I 1^ gills tepid water. sugar. | 2 ozs. butter. mixed spice. 

Sieve the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin. Mix the yeast and a teaspoonful 
of sugar together until it is liquid, pour the tepid water on to it. Mix into the 
flour, and put into a warm place to rise for one to one and a half hours. Turn on 
to a floured table, and knead thoroughly for fifteen minutes. Peel and core the 
apples, chop them finely, melt the butter. Mx these into the dough, adding a 
little mixed spice. Put into a well-buttered cake-tin, set in a warm place to rise 
for ten minutes, then bake in a hot oven for thirty to forty minutes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2J hours. Seasonable, September to May. 



790 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,663. FRUIT TEA CAKES. 

2 0Z3. sugar. j J lb. flour. 1 \ teaspoonful baking-powder. 
2 ozs. butter. ' 2 eggs. I any fruit in season. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, beat in the eggs one at a time Sieve in 
the flour and baking-powder. Mix thoroughly together, and then fill into small 
buttered dariole-moulds. Place in a hot oven, and cook for fifteen to twenty- 
minutes. When done, take them out of the tins, cut a slice off from near the top 
of each, take out some of the centres, and fill with any kind of fresh fruit that is in 
season. Sprinkle with sugar, replace the tops, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d., exclusive of fruit. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,664. BUNS. 



2 eggs. I salt. 

J lb. sultanas. | \ pint milk. 



1 lb. flour. I 2 ozs. butter. 

1 oz. German yeast. ' IJ ozs. castor sugar. 

Put the flour and salt into a basin. Put the yeast and a teaspoonful of salt into 
a small basin, and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Add to it the milk, 
which should be just lukewarm. Make a well in the centre of the flour, strain in 
the milk and yeast, mix all together, cover with a piece of paper or cloth, and set 
to rise for about one hour. At the end of that time knead the dough for five minutes, 
return to the basin, and work in the melted butter, sugar, sultanas, and eggs one at 
a time. Beat well until it is thoroughly mixed. Turn the dough on to a floured 
board, divide it into twelve equal pieces, make them up into balls, and place them 
on a baking-sheet that has been greased. Set them in a warm place to rise for ten 
minutes, then put them into a hot oven to bake. They will take about twenty 
minutes to cook. A few minutes before they are done, brush them over with milk, 
beaten egg, and treacle mixed together in equal quantities. 

To make hot-cross buns, spice should be added to the ingredients, and a cross 
made on each bun with the back of a floured knife. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, U hours. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



2,665. BATH BUNS. 



1 lb. flour. 
6 ozs. butter. 



4 eggs. 2 ozs. mixed candied peel. I 4 ozs. castor sugar. 

1 oz. yeast. 1 gill milk. ' salt. 

Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, and add a pinch of salt. Put 
the yeast into a small basin ; add to it ^ teaspoonful of castor sugar. Cream 
together with a wooden spoon until liquid, then pour on to it the milk, which 
must be first made lukewarm. Beat the eggs, and add them and the yeast mixed 
to the flour. Mix aU well together ; cover the basin, and put it to rise in a warm 
place for about one hour, or until it is double in size, then mix in the rest of the 
sugar and the finely cut candied peel. Make this paste into baUs all of equal 
size ; put them on baking-tins, and allow them to rise in a warm place for about 
ten to fifteen minutes. Before putting them in the oven, brush them over with 
beaten egg. Sprinkle some sugar over, and bake in a hot oven. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 2 hours. Sufficient for 12 buns. 

2,666. CHELSEA BUNS. 
J quartern bread-dough. | 3 ozs. butter. | castor sugar. 

Make the dough, knead it well, roll it out into a sheet about J inch thick ; 
spread the butter over ; fold it and roll three or four times ; then roU out again, 
sprinkle some castor sugar over, then a little water, and cut it in strips about, 
f inch wide. RoU these up until they are 2 inches in diameter. Butter a baking- 
sheet, and arrange the rolls on it, with a space between each. Put them into a 
warm place to rise. Bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, sprinkle some 
castor sugar over them. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2 hours. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



791 



2,§67. GIRDLE CAKES. 
1 lb. flour. I 6 0Z3. butter. |^ 'J. teaspoonful baking-powder. | salt. ] milk to mix. 
Sieve the flour, baking-powder, and salt into a basin ; add the butter, and rub 
it into the flour until well mixed. Make into a paste with milk ; turn this dough 
on to a floured board, and roll it out about ^ inch thick ; cut it out with a round 
cutter 3 inches in diameter. Flour a girdle, or an iron frying-pan will do as well ; 
place the cakes on it, and cook slowly. When a light brown, turn them over, to 
cook the other side. As soon as they are done, take them up, split in half, butter 
them, and pile one on the top of each other on a hot dish. Serve hot for tea. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 18 cakes. 




Fig. 210. — Gikdlk Cakes. 



2,668. RASPBERRY BUNS. 



4 ozs. butter. 
6 ozs. sugar. 



2 eggs. 1^ teaspoonfuls baking- I IJ gills milk. 

1^ lbs. Hour. powder. raspberry jam. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and work them together with a wooden 
spoon until creamy. Break in the eggs one at a time ; beat the mixture thoroughly 
before adding the next ; then stir the flour and baking-powder in lightly. Make 
the mixture into a soft dough with the milk. Divide into twelve portions ; knead 
each piece a little to get it smooth, flatten, and place a little raspberry jam in the 
centre of each ; close up ; place the buns on a greased baking-sheet ; brush them over 
with beaten egg ; dust with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 35 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



1 lb. flour. 
3 ozs. butter. 



4 ozs. sugar. 

4 ozs. golden syrup. 



legg. 

1 toaspoonful ginger. 



2,669. GINGER BUNS. 

1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and cream them together with a wooden 
spoon until soft. Add the egg ; beat well ; stir in the syrup, and mix. Sieve the 
flour with the baking-powder and the ginger ; stir in lightly and quickly. Divide 
the mixture into twelve parts ; make each portion into a round ball, place on a 
greased baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 35 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



792 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,670. SPICE BUNS. 

1 lb. flour. I 1 teaspoonful baking- , 4 ozs. sugar. | \ teaspoonful mixed spice. 
4 ozs. butter. | powder. I 2 eggs. | milk. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub in the butter ; add the 
spice ; mix with the beaten eggs and sufficient milk into a stiff dough. Divide 
into twelve pieces. Put these on a greased baking-sheet ; brush them over with 
beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 

2,671. ITALIAN BUNS. 

4 ozs. butter. I 1 teaspoonful baking- j 4 ozs. currants. 6 ozs. castor sugar. 

\\ lbs. flour. I powder. I rind of \ lemon. ^ pint milk. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub in the butter ; add the 
sugar, the cleaned currants, and the grated rind of the lemon ; mix into a paste 
with the milk. Divide the mixture into twelve pieces ; shape them round, and 
put on a greased baking-sheet ; brush over with beaten egg ; sprinkle with castor 
Bugar, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



2,672. VANILLA BUNS. 

lib. flour. 
4 ozs. butter. 



1 teaspoonful baking- j 4 ozs. castor sugar, 
powder. | 2 eggs. 



1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 
milk. 



Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub in the butter ; add the 
BUgar. Beat the eggs well : make a well in the centre of the flour ; put in the eggs 
and sufficient milk to mix ; add the vaniUa essence, and stir all together until all 
is well blended. Divide into twelve pieces ; mould them into a round shape ; 
put them on to a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 
When done, turn on to a sieve to cool. Before the buns are put in the oven they 
should be brushed over with beaten egg and dredged with sugar. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 

2,673. JUBILEE BUNS. 

J lb. butter, j 1 lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking- 1 egg. | essence of almonds. 

\ lb. sugar. | J lb. currants. powder. milk. ground almonds. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar and baking-powder ; stir in the 
cleaned currants ; mix to a dough with the beaten egg and sufficient milk ; flavour 
with almond essence. Shape into rounds ; place them on a greased baking-sheet, 
brush over with white of egg well beaten, and sprinkle with ground almonds and 
sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



1 lb. flour. 
4 ozs. butter. 



2,674. CINNAMON BUNS. 

1 teaspoonful baking- 6 ozs. sugar. 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

milk. 



powder. 2 eggs. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar, cinnamon, and baking-powder. 
Make a well in the centre of the flour, and pour in the well-beaten eggs and milk, 
sufficient to mix to a stiff dough. Divide the mixture into twelve portions ; shape 
each part into a round ; put these on to a greased baking-sheet ; rub them over with 
beaten egg ; dust with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to 
twenty minutes. When done, put them on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC, 79? 

2,675. BREAKFAST CAKE. 

^ lb. wholemeal flour. I ^ teaspoonful baking- 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

^ oz. butter. I powder. milk or water. 

Put the sugar, baking-powder, and flour into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly, 
and mix to a dough with either milk or water. Roll it out into a large round ; 
place on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, nominal. Time required, 20 to 30 minutes. 

2,676. HASTY CAKES. 
1 lb. flour. I 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. | ^ teaspoonful salt. ] milk. 

Sieve the flour, baking-powder, and salt into a basin ; mix with enough milk to 
make into a soft dough. Divide into four equal portions ; shape them into balls, 
and then flatt^i them with the hand. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes. Split open and butter. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



1 lb. flour. 



2,677. CORNISH TEA CAKE. 

1 oz. peel. 2 ozs. sugar. ^ teaspoonful spice. 

J lb. dripping. J lb. currants. 1 gill milk. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder ; rub in the dripping ; add the fruit, spice, 
sugar, and enough milk to bind. Roll them out rather thickly ; brush them over 
with egg, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. Split them open, and butter. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,678. CURRANT ROCK CAKES. 

1 lb. flour. 6 ozs. sugar. J lb. currants. 

6 ozs. butter, i , 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Rub the butter into the flour and baking-powder ; add the sugar and the 
currants, cleaned. Beat the eggs in a basin, and add by degrees to the dry ingre- 
dients. Tliis mixture may not require all the egg, as it must be very stiff. Place 
in little heaps on a floured tin ; bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 



^ lb. flour. I 6 ozs. sugar. 

3 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. desiccated cocoa-nut. 



2,679. COCOA-NUT ROCK CAKE. 

1 egg- 

J teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Rub the butter into the fiour and baking-powder ; then add the sugar and 
cocoa-nut. Beat the egg in a basin, and add to the dry ingredients. Place this 
mixture in little heaps on a floured tin ; put into a moderate oven, and bake for 
about fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



12 ozs. flour. 
4 oz3. butter. 



2,680. ORANGE ROCK CAKES. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



2 oranges. 1 teaspoonful baking- 

2 eggs. milk. powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve 
the flour and baking-powder ; stir into the butter ; also the grated rind of two oranges 
and the juice of one. If this mixture is too stiff, a httle milk can be added. Put 
in little heaps on a floured tin, and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. 
This dough must be very stiff, or the cakes will not keep their shape. 

Average cost, 8d. Tim© required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, November to 
June. 



794 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



I lb. flour. I 2 eggs. 

5 ozs. butter. I 5 ozs. sugar. 



2,681. VANILLA ROCK CAKES. 

vanilla. 

1 small teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; sieve the flour 
and baking-powder, and stir into the butter and sugar. Flavour with vanilla 
essence. Place in small heaps on a floured tin. Bake in a quick oven for ten to 
fifteen minutes. 

.\verage cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,682. ALMOND ROCK CAKES. 



3 ozs. butter. 



I lb. flour. 



1 egg. I almond essence. 

4 ozs. sugar. 3 ozs. ground almonds. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. | milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the egg ; sieve the flour and baking- 
powder ; stir into the mixture, also the almonds, a little almond essence, and milk 
if necessary. Place in little heaps on a floured tin, and bake for about ten minutes 
in a hot oven. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,683. ROCK CAKES. 

J lb. flour. milk. I 3 ozs. butter or dripping. 1 egg. I 1 teaspoonful baking- 

4 ozs. currants. 1 oz. peel. 3 ozs. sugar. nutmeg. ' powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly ; add 
the currants cleaned, and the peel cut up, also the sugar, a grate of nutmeg, and the 
beaten egg. A little milk can be added, if required, taking care that the mixture 
is not made too moist. Put in Httle heaps on a floured tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,684. CHERRY CAKE. 

5 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. glace cherries. 4 eggs. 

5 ozs. sugar. | J lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Line a cake-tin with a thick layer of paper. Cream the butter and sugar 
together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve the flour and baking- 
powder ; stir into the cake mixture, and, lastly, add the cherries, cut in halves, 
taking care that they are well distributed in the cake. Turn into the cake-tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for one hour to one and a half hours. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required 2 hours. 

2,685. POUND CAKE. 

^ lb. butter. I \ lb. flour. ^ lb. currants. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

I lb. sugar. | | lb. raisins. 6 eggs. 2 ozs. peel. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time* 
Clean the currants, chop the peel, and stone the raisins. Sieve the flour and 
baking-powder into the butter and eggs ; mix thoroughly, and then stir in the fruit. 
Turn into a cake-tin that has been lined with paper ; place in a moderately cool 
oven for three or four hours. Turn out, and stand on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 4 hours. 



2,686. LUNCHEON CAKE. 



I lb. flour. 



^ lb. currants. 3 eggs. ^ pint milk. 

6 ozs. sugar. \ lb. butter. nutmeg. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve in the flour 
and baking-powder ; add a little grated nutmeg, the currants cleaned, and the 
milk. A little more milk can be added if the cake is not moist enough. Turn into 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



795 



a cake-tin which has been lined with paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about 
one and a half hours. 

Average cost, lid. Time required, 2 hours. 



SULTANA CAKE. 



2,687. 

h lb. butter. 1 lb. flour, j | lb. sultanas. 1 teaspoonful bakinjr- 

I lb. sugar. 5 eggs. ' 2ozs. peel. powder. 

Line a cake-tin at the sides and bottom with a thick layer of paper. Sieve the 
flour and baking-powder together ; chop the peel and clean the sultanas, removing 
all the stalks. Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a 
time ; then stir in the flour and fruit. Mix all together thoroughly, and turn into 
the prepared tin. Put in a moderate oven and bake for one and a half to two hours. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2h hours. 




Fig. 211. — Sultana Cake. 



^ lb. butter. 
I lb. sugar. 



f lb. flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



2,688. GERMAN POUND CAKE. 

1 lemon. ^ lb. peel. 

^ lb. sultanas. 5 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon until soft. Break 
in the eggs, one at a time, beating each egg in thoroughly before adding the next. 
Clean the sultanas, and cut up the peel. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together, 
stir it into the cake, also the fruit and grated rind of one lemon. Mix well together, 
and turn into a cake-tin which has been lined with paper ; put into a moderate 
oven, and bake for two hours. Turn out, and stand on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2| hours. 



J lb. butter. 
I lb. sugar. 



6 ozs. sultanas. 
1 lemon. 



5 eggs. 

2 ozs. almonds. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 



2,689. GENOA CAKE. 

10 ozs. flour. 
2 ozs. peel. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; break in the eggs, one at a time, 
beating each egg well before the next is added. Sieve in the flour and baking- 
powder ; add the grated rind of one lemon, the sultanas cleaned, and the peel cut 
up small. Turn this into a shaUow cake-tin, which has been lined with paper. 



796 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

Press the mixture down, and sprinkle the top with the almonds blanched and 
skinned. Place in a moderate oven, and bake for one and a half hours. Turn 
out, and stand on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 2 hours. 



\ lb. butter. 
\ lb. sugar. 



'b ''^^^ 2,690. SEED CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. 4 eggs. I J oz. carraway-socds. 

1 oz. candied lemon-peel. a little milk. I 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



'^ Cream the butter and sugar together until soft. Beat in each egg thoroughly, 
adding them one at a time. Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; stir well 
together ; add the carraway-seeds and the candied lemon-peel, cut up in small 
pieces, and a httle milk, if necessary. Turn the mixture into a cake-tin, which 
has been Hned with paper. Place in a moderate oven, and bake for about one and 
a half hours. Turn out when done ; remove the paper, and place the cake on a 
sieve to cool. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,691. PLAIN CURRANT CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. I 2 ozs. peel. J pint milk. i 1 tableapoonful vinegar. 

h lb. currants. I \ lb. sugar. 6 ozs. dripping. | 2 tablespoonfuls baking-powder. 

Line a cake-tin with buttered paper. Sieve the flour and baking-powder into 
a basin ; rub the dripping in lightly ; add the sugar. Clean the currants by rubbing 
them lightly on a sieve with a little flour. Cut the peel into small pieces ; add 
these to the dry ingredients ; then stir in the milk and vinegar. Mix thoroughly, 
and turn into the prepared cake-tin ; press it down weU, and bake in a moderate 
oven for one and a half hours. Take it out, remove the paper, and put on a sieve 

to cool. ; 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 2 hours. i 



J lb. currants. 

1 oz. peel. 

6 ozs. sultanas. 



I lb. almonds. 
\ teaspoonful ground 
mixed spice. 



2,692. DUNDEE CAKE. 

I lb. butter. i lb. sugar. 

I lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

6 eggs. ^ lemon. 

Line a cake-tin with a thick layer of paper. Cream the butter and sugar together 
until quite soft ; break in the eggs, one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly 
before adding the next. Clean the currants and sultanas, and chop up the peel. 
Sieve the flour and baking-powder, and stir into the butter and eggs. Add the 
fruit, spice, and grated rind of half a lemon. When the cake is thoroughly mixed, 
turn it into the cake-tin. Have the almonds ready blanched and skinned, sprinkle 
them over the top of the cake ; place in a moderate oven, and bake for two to two 
and a half hours. When done, remove the paper, and place on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 hours. 



2,693. MADEIRA CAKE. 



5 ozs. butter. 
5 ozs. sugar. 



1 small teaspoonful baking- 



\ lb. flour. I 1 lemon. 

4 eggs. I slice of citron. powder. 

Line a cake-tin with four thicknesses of paper. Cream the butter and sugar 
together in a basin ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve the flour and baking- 
powder ; stir into the cake mixture, and add the grated rind of a lemon. Turn 
into the cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a quarter hours. 
When the cake is rather more than half cooked, place a sHce of citron-peel on the 
top. Finish baking, turn out, remove the paper, and stand on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required. If hours. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 797 



6 ozs. butter. 
6 ozs. sugar. 
4 eggs. 



2,694. SPICE CAKE. 

6 ozs. currants. 1 ^ teaspoonful mixed spice. 

4 ozs. sultanas. 10 ozs. flour. 

2 ozs. peel. | 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



Prepare a cake-tin by lining it with thick paper. Clean the currants and 
sultanas by rubbing them on a sieve with a little flour and then removing all the 
stalks. Chop the peel finely, and sieve the flour and baking-powder together. 
Cream the butter and sugar until soft ; add the eggs, one at a time, beating each egg 
in thoroughly before adding the next. Stir in the fruit and spice, and, lastly, the 
sieved flour. When the cake is well mixed, turn it into the prepared cake-tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half hours. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2.695. LADY CAKE. 

6 ozs. butter. | 1 lb. flour. I 1 gill milk. I 1 teaspoonful baking- 

12 ozs. sugar. ' almond essence. I 6 whites of eggs. | powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; add 1 teaspoonful of almond 
essence and 1 gill of milk. Whisk the whites of the eggs stiffly ; stir them lightly 
into the mixture, and, lastly, the flour sieved with the baking-powder. Turn into 
a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about one to one and a half hours. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2.696. GOLD CAKE. 

^ lb. butter. 1 lb. flour. I 2 eggs. j milk. 

I lb. sugar. vanilla. | 6 yo]ks of eggs. \ 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft ; beat in the eggs thoroughly. Sieve the 
flour and baking-powder together ; add them to the butter and eggs, also a few 
drops of essence of vanilla, and a little milk, if required. Turn into a greased and 
lined cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half to two hours. The 
whites of eggs left over from this cake can be used for a silver cake. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. 



2,697. ANGEL CAKE. 



8 whites of eggs. 
4 ozs. sugar. 



4 ozs. flour, 
vanilla essence. 



1 saltspoonful cream of 
tartar. 



Whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; stir in the sugar, and beat again for 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Sieve the flour and cream of tartar ; stir very lightly 
into the cake, and flavour with vanilla. Turn into a buttered angel cake-tin, and 
bake in a cool oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn on to a sieve to cool. 
If liked, this cake can be iced with fondant icing, and decorated with glace cherries 
and angeHca. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1^ hours. 

2,698. SNOW CAKE. 

i lb. butter. | 1 lb. cornflour. lemon essence. 

I lb. sugar. ! 6 whites of eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the whites of the eggs, one at a 
time ; flavour with lemon essence. Sieve the cornflour and baking-powder. Stir 
this into the cake ; turn into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about one and a half hours. Turn on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 2 hours. 



798 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,699. GINGER CAKE. 



4 ozs. butter. 
IJ lbs. golden 

S\TUp. 

IJ lbs. flour. 



legg. 

2 ozs. sultanas, 
preserved ginger. 
1 oz. mixed peel. 



J oz. ground ginger. 

angelica. 

royal icing (No. 2,178). 

1 dessertspoonful milk. 



\ teaspoonful car- 
bonate of soda. 

almond icing (No. 
2,180). 



Put the butter into a basin, and work it to a cream ; then add the syrup, which 
lias been first warmed ; beat in the egg ; sieve the flour, and stir it into the rest of 
the ingredients ; add ginger, sultanas, and peel. Lastly, dissolve the soda in the 
warmed milk. Mix all thoroughly together ; put the mixture into a lined cake-tin, 
and bake for about one and a half hours. When cooked, turn it out of the tin on 
to a sieve, and let it get cold. Then cover the top with a thick layer of almond icing. 
Let this set ; then put over the top a thin layer of royal icing. When this is firm, 
decorate it with pieces of preserved ginger and angehca, cut out in fancy patterns. 
(See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 hours. 



i2 ozs. flour. 
4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 



4 ozs. peel. 
2 ozs. raisins. 
\ gill milk. 



\ lb. treacle. 
I teaspoonful 
soda. 



2,700. GINGERBREAD. 

1 oz. sweet almonds. 

1 oz. ginger. 

2 eggs. 

Pass the flour and ground ginger through a sieve into a basin ; cut up the peel 
finely ; blanch the almonds, and cut them in shreds ; stone the raisins, and split 
them in halves ; add these ingredients to the flour. Put the butter, treacle, and 
sugar into a stewpan to dissolve ; beat the eggs in a small basin ; put the soda into 
another basin ; mix the treacle, eggs, and butter into the flour. Pour the milk 
on to the soda, and stir it into the cake. Turn the mixture into a well-greased 
cake-tin, and bake for one and a quarter hours. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required. If hours. 



5 ozs. butter. 
I lb. flour. 



2 eggs. 

5 ozs. golden sjrrup. 



2,701. JAMAICA GINGER CAKE. 

1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 

Cream the butter and syrup ; beat in the eggs ; sieve in the flour and baking- 
powder. If not moist enough, add a little milk. Turn into a greased tin ; sprinkle 

the top with halves of almonds blanched and skinned. ^^ --- - -j- --^ 

for about three-quarters to one hour. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, li hours. 



1 oz. ground ginger. 

2 ozs. almonds. 



Bake in a moderate oveu 



2,702. SODA CAKE. 



1 teaspoonful carbonate of 
soda. 



1 lb. flour. \ lb. currants. I 3 eggs. 

\ lb. butter or dripping. \ lb. moist sugar. | 1 gill milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; then add the sugar and currants, which have 
been ready cleaned ; mix these ingredients well together. Break the eggs into 
a basin, whisk them well, and stir into the flour, also nearly all the milk. Beat 
this mixture thoroughly with a wooden spoon ; lastly, stir in the soda, which haa 
been dissolved in the remainder of the milk. Put the mixture into a greased cake- 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Take it out of the tin, 
and let it cool on a sieve. This cake must be very well beaten, and not allowed 
to stand after the soda is added, but must be placed in the oven immediately. 
If the top of the cake browns too quickly, a piece of thick white paper must be 
placed on the top to prevent it burning. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2| hours. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 







«s 
O 

u 
(i> 

DO 

C 

O 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



799 



J lb. baked potatoes. 
1 oz. flour. 



i oz. peel. 
1 lemon. 



4 eggs, 
cinnamon. 



2,703. POTATO CAKE. 

2 ozs. almonds. 

3 ozs. sugar. 

Rub the potatoes through a sieve, put them into a basin, and add the flour. 
Blanch and skin the almonds ; chop them finely, also the peel. Separate the yolks 
and whites of the eggs ; beat the yolks in a basin, and then stir into the potato. Add 
the almonds, peel, and grated rind of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, and, lastly, add 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Turn into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in 
a moderate oven for thirty to forty minutes. Turn out on to a sieve to cool, and 
dust over with sugar and ground cinnamon. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. 



2,704. PLUM CAKE. 



12 ozs. flour. 
6 ozs. butter. 



J lb. broAvn sugar. 
i lb. raisins. 



^ lb. mixed peel. 
^ lb. currants. 



1 teaspoonful car- 
bonate of soda. 



4 eggs. 

J lb. treacle. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; add the treacle, and then beat 
in the eggs, one at a time ; beat each egg in thoroughly before adding the next. 
Stone the raisins ; cut each in half ; clean the currants, and cut up the peel. Sieve 
the flour, and stir it into the cake, also the fruit. Mix thoroughly ; and, lastly, 
stir in the soda, dissolved in a little milk. Put into a greased cake-tin that has 
been lined \\ith paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Turn 
out of the tin, remove the paper, and put the cake on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 2i hours. 



2,705. SIMNEL CAKE. 



^ lb. butter. 
J lb. sugar, 
f lb. flour. 



cherries. 

I lb. sultanas. 

6 oza. currants. 



2 ozs. peel. 

^ oz. mixed spice. 

6 eggs. 



1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 
I lb. almond-paste (No. 2,180). 
angelica. 



Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Add the 
sieved flour and baking-powder, the fruit (cleaned), and the peel (cut up), also the 
spice. Stir all well together. Put half the cake mixture into a cake-tin which 
has been lined with paper ; take some of the almond-paste and roll it out to the 
size of the cake-tin, having it about f inch thick. Place this on the top of the cake, 
and then the rest of the cake. Press down well, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When nearly done, place a roll of almond-paste round the edge, then rough it up 
with a fork. Cover with a piece of paper, and return to the oven. When cooked, 
turn it out ; remove the paper carefully ; sprinkle the top with water and sugar. 
Decorate with glace cherries and leaves of angelica. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 3^ hours. 



2,706. MARBLE CAKE. 



silver cake (No. 2,707). 

3 ozs. butter. 

milk. 



1 oz. black treacle, 
ground cinnamon. 
1^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 



3 ozs. brown sugar. 

1 lb. flour. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

Cream the butter, treacle, and sugar together ; beat in the eggs ; add the flour 
and baking-powder and a pinch of cinnamon. If necessary, a little milk can be 
added, as tliis dark mixture must be slacker than the silver cake. Have a cake-tin 
ready that has been hned with paper ; spread a thin layer of the silver cake over 
the bottom of the tin, then place here and there a small quantity of the dark mixture ; 
on this another thin layer of the wliite cake ; continue in this way until the cake 
mixtures are used up. Put into a moderate oven, and bake for one and a half to 
two hours. This cake, when cut, should have marble-like veins running through it. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 hours. 

BT. XI. 51 



800 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,707. SILVER CAKE. 

\ lb. butter. I 1 teaspoonful baking- 14 ozs. flour. I 5 whites of eggs. 

I lb. sugar. | powder. 2 ozs. cornflour. | 1 tablespoonful sliorry. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft ; beat in the whites of the eggs thoroughly 
Sieve in the flour, cornflour, and baking-powder ; mix well together, and then 
flavour with the sherry. Turn into a cake-tin which has been lined with paper , 
press it down, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half hours. Turn 
out, remove the paper, and place on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1^ to 2 hours. 



2,708. MEXICAN CAKE. 



\ lb. butter. I 2 epgs. 



2 ozs. walnuts. 



milk, 
j lb. sugar. ' J lb. flour. 2 ozs. hazel-nuts. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Cut the 
hazel-nuts and walnuts in halves ; sieve the flour and baking-powder. Add these 
ingredients to the cake mixture ; stir in thoroughly, adding a little milk, if neces- 
sary, and then turn into a lined cake-tin. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

Average cost, lid. Time required, 1^ hours. 

2,709. ICING AND PIPING. 

The tools necessary for icing and piping are a bowl in which to mix the sugar ; 
a fine sieve ; a wooden spoon ; a palette-knife ; piping-paper ; piping-tubes ; and, 
if possible, a piping-stand, on which to place the cake while being iced. This last 
item, though not absolutely necessary, adds greatly to the ease and perfection of 
the work done. Instead of the stand, a cake-tin turned upside down and placed 
on one a size smaller will answer the purpose. 

The materials necessary for this work are icing sugar, whites of eggs, an acid 
— viz., acetic acid or lemon-juice — and colours. The icing sugar should be the 
best ; the same results cannot be obtained from inferior sugar ; though it may be 
used for coating the cake, it is not strong enough to pipe with satisfactorily, so 
that the designs maintain their shapes. 

2,710. TO PREPARE THE ICING. 

Pass the sugar through a fine sieve. Put into a basin three whites of eggs ; 
stir into them about 14 ozs. of sugar ; then add a few drops of acetic acid or lemon- 
juice. Stir all together, then beat for at least fifteen minutes, beating slowly and 
continuously. When the icing is stiff and can be lifted with a spoon so that it 
does not fall off, it is ready for use. If at the end of the beating the icing is not 
of this consistency, a little more sugar must be added, and then beat again for a few 
minutes longer. It is not possible to give the exact quantity of sugar and whites, as 
eggs vary in size, and the whites also vary in strength, some being much stronger 
than others. If the above directions are followed, beginners will soon gain experi- 
ence, and by practice the necessary proficiency will be attained. A little blue added 
to the sugar will improve the colour ; ordinary washing-blue will answer this 
purpose. Care must be taken not to add too much, as the icing is to be white, 
and not a faint blue. 

2,711. TO MASK A CAKE WITH ICING. 

If the cake is to be almond-icod, put a layer of almond-paste (No. 2,180) on 
the top of the cake ; flatten it, so as to have a perfectly level surface. Cakes that 
are almond-iced are the most satisfactory, as the top can be made perfectly even 
with the almond-paste, and the cake will look better when the white icing is put on. 
The cake is now iced in the following manner : Take some of the icing out of the 
basin with a wooden spoon, sufficient to cover the cake ; drop it on the top of th^ 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



801 



cake. Work this over with a palette-knife, turning the stand while doing so. 
After covering the top, ice the sides with the icing that has come over the edge. 
Take some of the sugar on the palette-knife, place it on the side of the cake ; hold 
the knife vertically, and carry the knife round until the surface is fairly smooth. 
Sometimes it is advisable to ice the cake tA\ace, putting a thin coating of sugar on 
first, allowing this to dry in a warm place for four or five hours before putting on 
the second coat. When this second coating is set, proceed to pipe the cake. Be 
careful before commencing this that the icing sugar is perfectly smooth and free 
from lumps, otherAvise the pipe may become stopped up with small lumps of sugar. 
When that happens, the pipe must be removed, washed, and replaced before the 
piping can be continued. The paper cones are the best for this work, and pipes 
can be obtained to use with them. The pipes most used are the three stars, cord, 
ribbon, and leaf pattern. The learner must first practise the making of the paper 
cone. When this has been acquired, insert a pipe, put in some of the icing — not 
too much — close up the top of the cornet, and proceed to draw straight lines ; 
then make a wave line, then a scallop, until the way has been learnt to hold the 
comet and to force the sugar. Then proceed to practise more elaborate .patterns. 
This work requires great patience and much practice to become proficient. 

The cake to be piped should be thoroughly dry before commencing to decorate 
it, for if a beginner should then make a mistake, it can be scraped off and redone 
■without injuring the icing. 




Fig. 212, — Birthday Cake. 



J lb. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. 

2 eggs. 



2,712. 

J lb. flour. 
I lb. currants. 
I lb. sultanas. 



BIRTHDAY CAKE. 
1 teaspoonful baking- 



I J lb. mixed peel, 
powder. royal icing (No. 

almond icing (No. 2,180). | 2,178). 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin and cream them together until soft ; 
then add the eggs one at a time, beating each in thoroughly. Sieve the flour 
and baking-powder together ; stir into the butter and sugar ; then add the 
cleaned fruit and the peel, cut up small. ]\Iix all well together. Turn into a 
cake-tin lined with paper, but not greased. Bake in a slow oven for three hours. 
When done, turn out and let it get cold ; cover the top with a layer of almond icing, 
then ice it with royal icing, and decorate with a forcing-bag and pipe. As soon as 
Bet it is ready for use 

Average cost, 4s. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to make ; 3 hours to bake. 

51—2 



802 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,713. GATEAU DE NOCE (WEDDING CAKE). 



2 lbs. butter. 
2 lbs. sugar. 

2 lbs. flour. 

3 lbs. currants. 



1 lb. mixed peel. 
12 eggs. 

1 glass French brandy. 

2 ozs. mixed spice. 



^ lb. almonds, 
almond-paste (No. 

2,180). 
1 lb. sultanas. 



glace royale (No. 

2,178). 
transparent icing 

(No. 2,179). 



Put the butter and sugar into a large basin ; cream them together until soft, 
then add the eggs one at a time, and beat for four or five minutes after each one 
is added. Clean the fruit ; chop the peel finely ; blanch and chop the almonds ; 
add these to the mixture, also the flour and the spice, lastly the brandy. Mix all 
together thoroughly ; put the mixture into a paper-hned tin, ungreased ; bake in a 
cool oven for six to eight hours. The cake must cook very slowly, or the centre 
will be sodden when the outside is done. When cooked, turn out on to a sieve 
to cool. Cover the top with a thick layer of almond-paste ; then mask with a 
layer of royal icing. When this is set, cover with a layer of transparent icing. 
Decorate with royal icing by means of a piping-bag and pipes. When thoroughly 
set the cake is ready for use, though it is better for keeping. 

Average cost, 12s. 6d. Time required to make and bake the cake, 8 or 9 hours. 




Fig. 213. — Christmas Cake. 



2,714. CHRISTMAS CAKE. 



\ lb. butter. 
I lb. sugar. 



J lb. sultanas, 
f lb. flour. 



5 eggs. 

1 lb. currants. 
5 ozs. almonds. 
4 ozs. mixed peel. 



J oz. mixed spice. 

1 wineglass brandy or 

sherry, 
royal icing (No. 2,178), 



almond icing (No. 
2,180). 

1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 

Blanch the almonds, chop finely ; clean and pick the fruit ; cut up the peel ; 
sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Line a cake-tin with paper, but do 
not grease it. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, cream them together until 
soft, then add the eggs, one at a time ; beat each one in thoroughly ; stir in the flour, 
the fruit, almonds, spice, and the brandy or sherry ; mix well ; put into the pre- 
pared tin, and bake in a cool oven for four to six hours. When done, turn out on 
to a sieve to cool. The next day cover the top with a thick layer of almond icing ; 
when this is set, coat with royal icing ; let tliis get quite firm, then decorate it with 
pink royal icing through a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe. Tliis cake improves with 
keeping. In three months' time it will have a better flavour than when first baked. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. Time required to make, 30 minutes ; 4 to 6 hours to bake. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 803 

2,715. RASPBERRY CAKE. 

4 eggs. I 1 packet Bird's raspberry I ^ teaspoonful baking-powder, i flour. 

4 ozs. sugar. | blancmange -powder. I butter icing (No. 2,181). ' raspberry icing. 

Weigh the packet of blancmange-powder, and make the weight up to 4 ozs. 
with flour. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; add the sugar to the yolks, 
and beat thoroughly. Sieve the flour, powder, and baking-powder together ; 
whisk the \\«liites stiffly ; stir these and the flour very lightly into the yolks and 
sugar. Turn into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty 
minutes. Turn on to a sieve to cool. When quite cold, split it in half. Make 
some butter icing, and flavour it with a few raspberries, which have been rubbed 
through a hair sieve. Spread this on one half, press the other half on the top. 
Sieve I lb. icing sugar, put it into a basin, and mix enough sieved raspberries with 
it to make it the consistency of thick cream. Pour this in the centre of the cake, 
and let it run over it. When the icing is set, the cake can be decorated with some 
of the raspberry butter icing through a forcing-bag and pipe. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable, July and August. 

2,716. GATEAU ESPAGNOLE (SPANISH CAKE). 
J lb. ground almonds. J lb. flour. 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking- I angelica. 



J lb. sugar. 



2 oranges. 



orange icing, j powder. ! cherries. 

Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs together. Add the ground almonds, the 
grated rind of two oranges, and the juice of one. Sieve in the flour and baking- 
powder, stir it in, and, lastly, add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Mix these in 
very lightly ; turn into a greased cake-tin, and bake in a rather cool oven for about 
one hour. Turn out on to a sieve, and leave until it is perfectly cold. Sieve 
\ lb. icing sugar, and mix with it sufficient orange-juice to make it the consistency 
of thick cream. Pour this on the cake, and allow it to run over until quite smooth. 
W^hen the icing is half set, decorate with glace cherries and pieces of angelica, cut 
in diamond shapes. Put the cake aside until the icing is quite set. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. 



4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 



2,717. WALNUT CAKE (1). 
3 eggs. 3 ozs. walnuts. 1 teaspoonful baking- water icing (No. 2,176) 



6 ozs. flour. 



vanilla. 



powder. angelica. 



Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve the 
flour and baking-powder, and chop the walnuts. Add these ingredients to the 
cake mixture, also a few drops of vanilla. Turn into a buttered cake-tin, and cook 
in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. When cold, cover the cake 
with a layer of vanilla-flavoured icing, and decorate with halves of shelled walnuts 
and a little angelica. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, labours. 



2,718. WALNUT CAKE (2). 



4 ozs. butter. 



walnuts. 



4 ozs. sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

4 whites of eggs. ^ lb. flour. ^ gill milk. fondant icing (No. 2,174). 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; stir in the milk and 1 oz. chopped walnuts. 
Sieve the flour and baking-powder ; whisk the whites stiffly ; stir these ingredients 
into the butter and sugar, turn into a buttered cake-tin, and cook in a moderate 
oven for about one hour. Turn out on to a sieve, and when cold cover with fondant 
icing, and decorate with halves of shelled walnuts. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 2 hours. 



804 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,719. BURNT ALMOND CAKE. 

5 ozs. butter. I J lb. flour. | 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 1 1 lemon. ] chocolate fondant icing 
5 ozs. sugar. ^ 4 eggs. i butter icing (No. 2,181). I almonds. (No. 2,175). 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; add the 
grated rind of one lemon, and, lastly, the sieved flour and baking-powder. Turn 
into a cake-tin lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven for one and a quarter 
to one and a half hours. Turn out and put aside to cool, then cut into layers and 
level the top. Blanch, peel, and chop some almonds ; put in the oven, and cook 
until a pale brown. Have ready some butter icing ; put into it some of the burnt 
almonds. Spread this mixture between the layers of cake ; put them together 
again, and cover all over with chocolate fondant icing. When the icing begins to 
set, sprinkle the top of the cake thickly with burnt almonds, and put aside to get firm. 
Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. 



i lb. butter. | lb. flour. j 4 eggs. ; 1 teaspoonful baking- 

l gill milk. \ lb. sugar. I figs. | powder. 



2,720. FIG CAKE. 

1 lemon. 

fondant icing (No. 2,174). 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; add the 
milk, and, lastly, the flour and baking-powder, sieved together. Mix thoroughly, 
and turn into three buttered cake-tins, all the same size. Put into a moderate oven, 
and bake for about thirty minutes. Turn out and put on to a sieve to cool. Stew 
some figs with sugar, water, and a little lemon-peel. When they are tender, strain 
off the liquor, and chop the figs very finely. Spread a layer of them on one of the 
cakes ; cover with another cake ; spread that with figs, and cover with the third 
cake. Press them lightly together, place on an icing-tray, and cover all over with 
vanilla-flavoured fondant icing. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1| hours. 



1 lb. butter. 

2 ozs. brown sugar. 



2,721. ALPINE CAKE. 

1 lb. flour. I 2 eggs. J pint black treacle. 

1 gill milk. I J oz. carbonate of soda. spice. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; stir in 
the treacle and a pinch of spice. Sieve in the flour and carbonate of soda ; mix 
together, and add about 1 gill of milk ; a little more than this may be required to 
make into a soft dough. Have a cake-tin, buttered and papered ; put the mixture into 
it, and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. Turn out on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, \\ hours. 



4 ozs. sugar. 
4 ozs. flour. 



2,722. HONEY LAYER CAKE. 

4 eggs, j ^ teaspoonful baking- chopped almonds. 

water icing (No. 2,170). 



honey. | powder. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar together ; sieve in the flour and baking-powder, 
and, lastly, add the beaten whites of eggs. Mix together lightly, turn into a greased 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out, and let it 
get quite cold. SpUt in half, and spread tliickly with honey ; place together 
again, and cover the top and sides of the cake with vaniUa-flavoured water icing. 
Sprinkle the top with coarsely-chopped burnt almonds. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,723. STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

4 eggs. I 4 ozs. flour. 1 lb. strawberries. 

4 ozs. sugar. 1 J teaspoonful baking-powder. ^ lb. icing sugar. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; put the sugar to the yolks, and beat 
until creamy. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; sieve the flour and baking- 
powder into the cake mixture with the whipped wliites. Mix very lightly, and 




o 
o 

o 

O 

-D 

D 

a 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



805 



then turn into a greased cake-tin ; put in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty 
to tliirty minutes. Turn on to a sieve to cool. Put half the strawberries through 
a hair sieve ; mash the other half with a fork, and mix with a little castor sugar. 
When the cake is quite cold, spht it in half, and spread thickly with the mashed 
strawberries ; put the other half of the cake on the top. Sieve the icing sugar, and 
mix with enough of the strawberry puree to make it the consistency of thick cream. 
Place the cake, upside down, on an icing-tray ; pour the strawberry icing in the 
centre, and allow it to run over. Put aside to let the icing set. 

The cake can be made also with raspberries, apricots, or any soft fruit. 

Average cost. Is. Time required to bake, 20 minutes. Seasonable, June to 
August. 

2,724. LAWN-TENNIS CAKE. 

almond icing (No. 2, ISO). 
wat(>r icing (No. 2,176). 
pistachio-nuts. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, and beat in the eggs, one at a time. Clean 
the currants and sultanas ; cut up the peel. Stir the sieved flour and baking- 
powder into the cake mixture ; add the fruit, and stir all together thoroughly. 



1 lb. butter. 


J lb. flour. 


^ lb. sultanas. 


^ lb. sugar. 


2 ozs. peel. 


1 teaspoonful baking- 


1 lb. currants. 


5 eggs. 


powder. 



^H 


^^^^^r^^:y\ 




^^H 


^^^^^^^^^H 


IBUP^'-'^'^^l 




^^^^^^^^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 


iitfffitt' ^ €9kj^ '•>■>'''',< I 




^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1 


^BSS 




r^^.-^^^V-:- '^ 


^^^^1 


^^^^^^^^V^ '^^^T^BQ 


VSi^F^S^ iv'^JMB 




l^Hy^^'t ^B^^^^^^^^^H 


^P 




m •^• 




^^^^^^^^k 








^L^ *^- 






^^^H 








^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1 


^^^^^^^^^^^H^ 




-^^'^ 


m^^^^^^^^^^^^M 


HHH 




B^ta^^^^^k..^ 


■^^^H 



Fig. 214. — Lawn-Tennis Cakb. 



Turn into a square cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours. When 
done, place on a sieve to cool. Coat the top with a thick layer of almond icing, 
taking care to make it quite level. Cover with vanilla-flavoured water icing, and, 
when nearly set, sprinkle with very finely chopped pistachio-nuts. Have ready 
a tennis-net, made of royal icing ; set tliis on the cake, and place two tennis-rackets, 
also made of royal icing, at each side of the net. 
Average cost, 2s. 6a. Time required, 4 hours. 



1 egg. 

chocolate icing (No. 2,177). 

butter icing (No. 2,181). 



2,725. CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

3 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. Cadbury's Mexican chocolate. 
3 ozs. sugar. k small teaspoonful baking-powder. 

5 ozs. flour. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, break in the egg, and beat well ; chop or 
grate the chocolate finely ; put it into a small stewpan with the milk, and stir until 
it is melted ; add it to the mixture. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together, 
stir it lightly into the rest of the ingredients. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the mix- 



806 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



ture, and bake m a moderate oven for haK an hour. When cooked, take out the 
cake, turn it on to a sieve, and let it get cold. Ice with chocolate icing, and when 
this is set, decorate with butter icing, flavoured with chocolate, using a paper 
cornet and pipe for the purpose. Dish up when set, and serve. This cake can also 
be decorated with flowers. (See coloured plate.) 
Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,726. PARCEL-POST CAKE. 

\ lb. sultanas. Shrewsbury finger biscuits 

4 eggs. French icing (No. 2,176). 

lemon -rind. chocolate icing. 

Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon until soft ; work in, 
one at a time, the four eggs, beating each in well. Sieve the flour and baking- 
powder together, grate the lemon-rind into it, clean the sultanas, take off the 
stalks ; stir the flour and the fruit into the butter and eggs, mix hghtly together 
if too stiff, use a little milk. Put into a square cake-tin, and bake for one and a 
half hours in a hot oven for the first half-hour, and then in a cooler one for the 
remainder of the time. When done, turn on to a sieve to cool. When cold, if 



J lb. butter. 
10 ozs. sugar. 
1 lb. flour. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 




Fig. 215. — Parcel-Post Cake. 

necessary, cut the cake perfectly level on the top. Have the biscuits ready, which 
should be cut to the exact size of the cake. Cover the cake with a thin layer of 
water icing ; fix the biscuits on the top and sides, placing them close together. 
Prepare some royal icing, coloured with chocolate. Put on the top of the cake a 
square of white icing, to represent the label. Into a forcing-bag with a plain 
tube put some of the chocolate icing ; pipe a dot at each corner of the label and 
at the end of each biscuit to represent the nails. Write an address on the label 
and any remarks preferred on the cake — viz., " Fragile," " With care," " Per 
parcel post," etc. The cake is then ready. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. 



pistachio-nuts. 
^ lb. icing sugar. 



2,727. ORANGE CAKE. 

i eggs. I 5 ozs. castor sugar. I ^ teaspoonful baking- 

6 ozs. flour. I 1 orange. I powder. 

I'ut the eggs and sugar into a basin, and beat until it is thick and the con- 
sistency of cream. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Grate the rind 
of the orange into the flour, stir this hghtly into the eggs and sugar, mix quickly. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 807 

and pour into a well-buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes. When done, turn it out on to a sieve to get cold. Put the icing 
sugar through a fine sieve into a basin, mix in the juice of the orange ; pour this 
over the cake ; sprinkle -wdth chopped pistachio-nuts as soon as the icing has partly set. 
Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. 

2.728. MOCHA CAKE. 

4 eggs. I ^ teaspoonful baking- 4 ozs. castor sugar. I | lb. icing sugar. 

4 ozs. flour. I powder. 6 ozs. fresh butter. essence of coffee. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, putting them into different basins. 
Add the sugar to the yolks of eggs ; beat until creamy. Sieve the flour and baking- 
powder together ; whip the whites to a stiff froth. Stir the flour and the whites 
into the yolks and sugar together ; mix lightly and quickly. Butter a cake-tin, 
pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When 
cooked, turn it on to a sieve to get cold. Put the butter and icing sugar into a basin ; 
cream them together until soft ; add some coffee essence, a few drops at a time, 
until the icing is the right colour and consistency. Cover the cake with this icing, 
and with some of the same icing decorate it through a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, H hours. 

2.729. MOSAIC CAKE. 

Genoese mixture (No. 2,760). | 2 ozs. chocolate. | cochineal. | apricot jam. | almond-paste. 

Make the Grenoese mixture, and di\ade it into three parts. Melt the grated 
chocolate in a little milk ; stir it until it boils, then mix it into one of the parts ; 
colour a second part pink with a few drops of cocliineal, and leave the third part 
plain. Turn these respective parts into three flat square Yorkshire tins, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. As soon as they are done, turn the cakes out on to a 
sieve to cool. Cut these cakes into long strips all the same size. Arrange them 
alternately in layers, putting them together with a thin coating of apricot jam 
which has been rubbed through a sieve. The end of the cake and each slice as cut 
is intended to look like a chess-board ; the colours must, therefore, alternate, and 
the strips should be fitted very exactly. Make some almond-paste, spread it 
over the sides and top of the cake. When set, turn it upside down, and cover the 
bottom layer in the same way. Let the cake get thorouglily set, then dish up 
and serve whole, or cut in slices for afternoon tea. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,730. GATEAU DE CITRON (LEMON CAKE). 

8 ozs. flour. I 6 ozs. castor sugar. ^ lemon. ^ teaspoonful baking- 

6 eggs. 1 oz. candied lemon -peel. ! fondant icing (No. 2,174). powder. 

Break the eggs into a basin ; add the sugar, and beat together until thick and 
creamy. Add the juice of half a lemon, the finely-chopped rind and candied lemon- 
peel. Work in hghtly and quickly the flour and baking-powder. Butter a cake- 
tin ; put the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. 
When cooked, turn the cake on to a sieve to cool. When cold, cover with white 
or pink fondant icing, flavoured with lemon. Let this set, then decorate with 
pieces of candied lemon-peel, cut out in fancy patterns. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, H hours. 

2,731. GATEAU D'ABRICOTS (APRICOT CAKE). 

4 eggs. -i ozs. Hour. 2 ozs. ground i preserved apricots. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. 3 ozs. butter. almonds. I whipped cream. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a basin ; stand this on a saucepan containing a little 

hot water ; w ip until the contents of the basin are tliick and creamy. Melt the 

butter in a small saucepan. Lift the basin off the water, and wliisk a little longer ; 



808 



THE WEAL COOKERY BOOK 



then stir in the almonds, flour, and butter. Butter a cake-tin ; pour the mixture 
into it, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When done, turn 
out, and let it get cold, then spHt it in half. Have ready some preserved half- 
apricots ; mash them with a fork ; sweeten to taste, and put a layer over one half 
of the cake ; put the other half on the top, and press hghtly together. Whip some 
cream ; spread this on the top of the cake, sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts, 
and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. 



royal icing (No. 2,178). 
angelica. 



2,732. GATEAU VANILLE. 

4 eggs. I 4 ozs. flour. I J teaspoonful baking-powder. 

4 ozs. sugar. ' crystallized violets, i water icing (No. 2,176). 

Separate the yolks and the wliites of the eggs ; beat the yolks and sugar together! 
until creamy. Whisk the whites stiffly ; sieve the flour and baking-powder together ; 
stir in the whites of eggs and flour very lightly. Turn into a greased tin, and bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. When done, place on a sieve to 




Fig. 216. — Gateau Vanillb. 

cool. Have ready some vanilla-flavoured water icing ; colour it a pale violet with 
violet colouring ; pour this over the cake, and leave it to set. Make a basket with 
the royal icing ; place this in the centre of the cake, fixing it with a little of the 
icing. Fill this basket with crystalhzed violets and leaves of angehca, forming it 
into sprays of flowers drooping out of the basket. 
Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1^ hours. 



4 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



^ lb. Icing sugar. 
French icing (No. 2,176). 



2,733. COCOANUT CAKE. 

5 ozs. flour. I \ lb. fresh butter. 

^ teaspoonful baking-powder. I 4 ozs. cocoanut. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a basin ; beat together for fifteen minutes, then 
Btir in the flour and baking-powder ; mix lightly. Turn this mixture into a buttered 
cake-tin, and bake for about thirty minutes in a rather slow oven. When done, 
turn the cake out on to a sieve ; as soon as it is cold, cut it in half horizontally. 
Cream the butter, add the | lb. of icing sugar, work together until soft, then 
add 2 ^zQ. of cocoanut ; flavour with a little vanilla, spread the bottom half of 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



809 



the cake with this mixture ; place the other haK over ; press lightly together. Cover 
with white French icing, and, when beginning to set, sprinkle thickly with the 
remainder of the cocoanut. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1^ hours. 



2,734. GATEAU RICHE. 

butter icing (No. 2,181). 



I gill cream, 
pistachio-nuts. 



Genoese pastry (No. 2,760). 
apricot jam. 

Make the Genoese pastry in three cake-tins of equal size. When the cakes are 
■cold, spread them with apricot jam, and stand them one on the top of the other. 
■Cover the outside of the whole cake \vith apricot jam. Have ready some vanilla- 
flavoured butter icing ; put this into a forcing-bag, and decorate the sides of the 
■cake with it ; place a few shreds of pistachio-nut here and there on the piping. 
Whip the cream stiffly ; sweeten and flavour it to taste ; pile it on the top of the 
■cake, and arrange a circle of meringue-shells on the top of the cake, leaning against 
the cream. Decorate round the meringues with more butter icing in the form of 
roses, and also with groups of shredded pistachio-nuts and a few sprinkled on the 
top of the cream. This cake should be served as soon as possible, as the meringues 
fioften with contact with the cream. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. 



2,735. GATEAU DELICE. 



5 ozs. butter. 
5 ozs. sugar. 



i lb. flour. 
4 eggs. 



2 ozs. glace cherries. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

For the Biscuits. 



1 lemon, 
ribbon. 



water icing (No. 2,176). 
royal icing (No. 2,178). 



J lb. butter. 
I lb. sugar. 



J lb. flour. 

1 egg. 



1 lemon. 

J teaspoonful baking-powder. 



Line a cake-tin with a thick layer of paper. Cream 5 ozs. of butter and 5 ozs. of 
sugar together until soft ; beat in four eggs, one at a time. The mixture must be 
very well beaten. Add the grated rind of one lemon and the cherries cut in halves. 
Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; mix in thoroughly, and turn into the pre- 
pared cake-tin. Put into a moderate oven, and bake for one to one and a half 
hours. When done, remove the paper, and put on to a sieve to cool. While the 
€ake is being baked, the biscuits should be made. Cream the butter and sugar 
together, beat in the egg, add the grated rind of one lemon ; and lastly, stir in 
the flour and baking-powder. Make into a stiff dough ; roll out thinly, and cut 
into finger-shapes about 4 inches long and 1 inch broad. Bake these in a moderate 
oven, taking care that they do not brown. Place on a sieve to cool. When the 
cake is quite cold, cut it level at the top ; turn it upside down, place on an icing- 
tray, and cover with lemon-flavoured water icing. When this is nearly set, arrange 
the finger biscuits standing up round the sides, letting the biscuits touch one another. 
If too long, the biscuits should be cut, so that they all extend J inch above the 
top of the cake. Leave this until the icing is quite set and the biscuits firm. Have 
ready some pink and white royal icing ; put one colour into a forcing-bag with a 
rose-tube. Force out a line of roses across the top of the cake, and then another hne 
crossing the first, thus dividing the cake into four equal portions. Fill one of the 
divisions with white roses, forced close together, so that the under icing cannot be 
geen between. Fill the opposite division in the same way ; the two remaining 
portions are filled with pink roses. Put the cake aside until the icing is quite set. 
Then have a length of pink ribbon to match the pink roses on the cake ; place this 
round the cake, and tie in a pretty bow at one side. Dish up, and serve. This 
cake can also be decorated with white and chocolate roses, in which case white or 
brown satin ribbon should be used. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. 



810 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,736. DAINTY CAKE. 

10 ozs. butter. I 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. I 1 dessertspoonful vanilla. 

6 ozs. sugar. 8 ozs. flour. \ lb. icing sugar. I pistachio-nuts. 

Cream the sugar and 6 ozs. of butter together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one 
at a time. Sieve the flour and baking-powder ; stir into the mixture, and then turn 
into a buttered cake-tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Turn 
out on to a sieve, and let it get perfectly cold. Sieve the icing sugar ; cream the 
butter in a basin until soft. Add the icing sugar to it by degrees ; then flavour 
with vanilla essence. Spread a layer of this butter icing aU over the cake, dipping 
the knife in hot water in order to get the covering quite smooth. Put the rest of 
the icing in a forcing-bag with a rose-tube ; decorate the top and sides of the 
cake with this. Blanch, peel, and chop a few pistachio-nuts ; sprinkle these here 
and there between the piping. A few glace cherries or angeUca could be used 
instead of the pistachio-nuts. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, IJ hours. 



2,737. DELICATE CAKE. 

6 ozs. cornflour. 
6 ozs. butter. 
6 ozs flour. 



1 gill milk. 1 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

7 whites of eggs. J teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

14 ozs. sugar. | fondant icing (No. 2,174). 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft ; stir in half the milk, then the flour, corn- 
flour, and cream of tartar. Mix the soda in the rest of the milk ; whip the whites 
stiffly, and stir into the mixture with the soda. Turn into a greased cake-tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters to one hour. Turn out on to a 
Bieve, and, when cold, cover with fondant icing. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1^ hours. 

2,738. SANDTORTE. 

J lb. butter. I \ teaspoonful baking- I 1 lemon. I J lb. flour. 

I lb. castor sugar. | powder. | J lb. cornflour. \ 1 oz. almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; add the flour, 
cornflour, and baking-powder, also the grated rind of a lemon. Turn into a shallow 
greaced tin, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. When 
half baked, sprinkle the top with blanched, skinned, and shredded almonds. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,739. GATEAU A L'ARLEQUIN (HARLEQUIN CAKE). 

6 eggs. 1 oz. chocolate. 1 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 

their weight in butter, sugar, raspberry jam. water icing, 

and flour. apricot jam. | cochineal. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time 
Sieve the flour and baking-powder together ; butter three cake-tins of equal size. 
Stir the flour into the butter and eggs. Put one-tliird of the mixture into one of 
the cake-tins ; spread over evenly, and put in a moderate oven to bake. Divide 
the rest of the cake mixture into two equal portions ; colour one with cochineal, 
and add the ounce of grated chocolate to the other. Put these into the remaining 
tins, and bake in a moderate oven. When they are done, turn them on to a sieve 
to cool. Spread the pink cake with a layer of raspberry jam ; place the white cake 
on the top ; spread that with apricot jam, and cover with the chocolate cake ; 
press them all well together. Mask the cake all over with water icing, flavouring it 
according to taste. Sprinkle a few pistachio-nuts on the surface, and put aside 
to set. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, \\ hours. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



i lb. flour. 

2 ozs. fine -grain florador. 

6 ozs. sugar. 



J lb. currants. 

1 tablespoonful sherry. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



2.740. CANADIAN CAKE. 

4 ozs. butter. 

3 eggs. 

1 oz. candied peel. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. 
Chop the candied peel very finely ; clean the currants ; add these to the cake mixture, 
also the florador and sherry. Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; stir in 
thoroughly, and turn into a large buttered cake-tin. Put into a moderate oven, 
and bake for three-quarters to one hour. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 ^ hours. 

2.741. LEMON CAKE (1). 

3 eggs. I J lb. castor sugar. 3 lemons. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, angelica. 

4 ozs. butter. | | lb. flour. cherries. water icing (No. 2,176). J lb. loaf sugar. 

Cream 2 ozs. of butter and the castor sugar together until soft. Beat in two 
eggs, one at a time ; add the juice of two lemons and the grated rind of one. Lastly, 
add the sieved flour and baking-powder. Stir in lightly, and turn into a buttered 
tin ; bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Place on a sieve to 
cool. Put the loaf sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, grated rind of half a lemon, and the 
juice of one into a saucepan. Beat one egg in a basin ; pour it into the saucepan, 
and stir over the fire until it is the consistency of thick cream. Turn into a basin 
to cool. When the cake is quite cold, cut it into three layers. Spread each layer 
with the lemon mixture, put the cake together again ; place it on an icing-tray 
and cover the top and sides with lemon-flavoured water icing. When this begins 
to set, decorate the cake with glace cherries and pieces of angehca or pistachio- 
nuts. Put aside until the icing is quite firm. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 2 hours. 



2,742. LEMON CAKE (2). 



4 ozs. butter. 



8 ozs. flour. 



4 whites of eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking- I 1 tablespoonful milk, 
f lb. sugar. 3 yolks of eggs. 3 lemons. powder. 1 pistachio-nuts. 

Cream the butter and 4 ozs. of sugar together until soft. Beat in the yolks of 
the eggs, one at a time ; add the grated rind of one lemon and 1 tablespoonful of 
milk. Whisk two whites of eggs very stiffly ; sieve the flour and baking-powder 
together ; stir these ingredients lightly into the cake mixture. Turn into a buttered 
cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty to forty-flve minutes. When done, 
turn on to a sieve to cool, then cut in rather thin layers, about tliree or four. Whip 
two whites of eggs very stiffly ; stir into them ^ lb. of castor sugar, the grated rind 
of two lemons, and the juice of one. Spread this mixture on each layer ; put the 
pieces of cake on the top of each other, and put a layer of the lemon meringue on 
the top. Dust with castor sugar, and sprinkle with a few blanched, skinned, and 
finely-chopped pistachio-nuts. Place the cake in a cool oven for a short time, to 
set the lemon meringue ; take out of the oven, and let the cake get cold before 
using. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,743. AMERICAN LEMON CAKE. 

J lb. butter. I J lb. flour. 1 gill warm milk. 1 2 eggs. I i lb. icing sugar. 

5 ozs. sugar. I 1 lemon. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. I angelica. | candied lemon-peel. 

Cream 4 ozs. of butter and the sugar together until soft ; beat in the yolks of 
the eggs, one at a time. Add the grated rind and juice of one lemon, the warm milk, 
and, lastly, the flour and baking-powder, sieved together, and the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs ; stir these in very hglitly ; turn into a buttered cake-tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty to forty-five minutes. When the cake is done, 



812 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



turn on to a sieve to cool, then cut into layers. Rub the icing sugar through a 
fine sieve ; put it into a basin ; add 4 ozs. of butter, and cream them together until 
quite soft. Grate the rind of one lemon ; stir it into the butter and sugar, and also 
a little of the juice, until the icing is nicely flavoured with lemon. Spread a layer 
of this on each piece of cake ; put them all together again, and cover the top of the 
cake with some of the icing, dipping the knife in hot water in order to get the 
coating quite smooth. Soak a piece of lemon-peel in hot water to soften it ; dry it 
in a cloth, and then cut into fancy patterns with a small cutter. Decorate the top 
of the cake with a design composed of these and of pieces of angehca cut in a similar 
pattern. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 1 hours. 



2,744. AMERICAN WHITE CAKE. 



J lb. castor sugar. 
■h lb. flour. 



2 ozs. butter. 
1 gill milk. 



5 whites of eggs, 
vanilla. 



2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder. 



Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; cream them together until soft, then stir 
in 1 gill of milk and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Beat the whites of five eggs 
stiffly ; sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Stir these ingredients into 
the cake mixture very lightly ; turn into a buttered cake-tin ; place in a moderate 
oven, and bake for three-quarters to one hour, taking care that the surface does- 
not get too brown. When done, turn on a sieve, and leave until cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, labours. 



2,745. GATEAU A LA PORTUGAISE (PORTUGUESE CAKE). 



J lb. sugar. 
J lb. almonds. 



2 ozs. ground rice. 
2 ozs. flour. 



glace royale (No. 
2,178). 



cherries, 
angelica. 



vanilla. 
4 eggs. 

Blanch the almonds, and pound them in a mortar ; flavour with a few drops of 
vaniUa. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin ; add the sugar, and work together 
until creamy ; add the ground rice and the flour, mix well, stir in the pounded 
almonds. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir them lightly to the 
mixture. Grease a cake mould ; turn in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about thirty minutes. When done, turn it out on to a sieve ; let it get cold, 
then coat with glace royale ; decorate with cherries and angelica. Serve cut up or 
whole. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour. 



2,746. TROCADERO CAKE. 



J lb. butter. 



\ lb. castor sugar. 
1 lb. flour. 
6 eggs. 



2 ozs. lemon -peel, 
fondant icing (No. 2,174). 
1 oz. pistachio-nuts, 
royal icing (No. 2,178). 



1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

2 ozs. mixed crystallized 
fruits. 

J lb. sultanas. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and cream them together until soft ; 
beat in the eggs, one at a time. Mix the flour and baking-powder together. Pre- 
pare the fruit ; take the stalks off the sultanas, and cut up the crystallized fruit and 
peel in very small pieces. After the eggs have been well beaten to the butter and 
sugar, stir in the flour and the fruit ; mix all well together. Grease a round cake- 
tin ; put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half hours. 
When done, turn the cake on to a sieve to cool. Blanch the pistachio-nuts ; peel 
and chop them finely. Prepare some fondant icing ; colour it a pale shade of green 
with spinach greening ; ice the cake with this, and sprinkle round the sides thickly 
with the pistachio-nuts. Decorate the top of the cake with white royal icing 
through a forcing-bag. As soon as the icing is dry, the cake is ready to serve. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 3 hours. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



813 



2,747. PRINCESS CAKE. 



i lb. butter. 
\ lb. sugar. 



II lbs. flour. 

ij teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 



6 eggs. 

^ lb. sultanas. 



J lb. currants. 
2 OZ3. peel. 



1 oz. almonds, 
milk, if necessary. 

Shred the peel into thin strips, put it into a basin ; clean the fruit, and add it 
to the peel ; blanch, peel, and chop the almonds, put them with the rest of the 
above ingredients ; mix all well together. Cream the butter and sugar together 
until soft ; add the eggs, one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly before putting 
in the next. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together ; stir them into the 
mixture. Paper a cake-tin ; put half tliis mixture into it, th^n put the mixed fruit 
on the top, forming a layer ; then arrange the remainder of the mixture over that. 
Press it dowTi, so as to make it level, and bake in a moderate oven for about one 
and a half hours. When done, turn on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 2 hours. 




Fig. 217. — Hose Cake. 



2,748. ROSE CAKE. 



2 eggs. 

2 0Z3. butter. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



i lb. flour. 



2 ozs. chopped 
almonds. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder, 
water-icing (No. 2,176). 



angelica. 

crystallized rose-leaves. 

ratafia essence. 



Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. 
Sieve the flour and baking-powder ; stir into the mixture, also the chopped almonds. 
Put into a buttered cake-tin, and cook in a moderate oven about three-quarters 
to one hour. When quite cold, cut the cake level if it is not straight, and then cover 
with water icing flavoured with ratafia essence. When this is nearly set, decorate 
with a spray of flowers made with strips of angelica for the stalks, and crystaUized' 
rose-leaves to represent the flowers. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, li hours. 



2,749. ALMOND-SEED CAKE. 



1 oz. whole almonds. 
1| ozs. ground almonds. 



J lb. flour. 
4 eggs. 



^ lb. butter. ^ oz. caraway-seeds. 

I lb. sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; work in the eggs, one at a time, beating 
each thoroughly before putting in the next ; add the ground almonds, the flour, 
and the seeds ; mix all well together. Blanch, peel, and shred the whole almonds. 



814 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Put the mixture into a lined cake-tin ; sprinkle the siiredded almonds over the top, 
and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour, or longer. When done, turn out 
of the tin on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 2 hours. 



2,750. PINEAPPLE CAKE. 



2 ozs. glace pineapple. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



J lb. icing sugar, 
angelica. 



2 ozs. butter. J lb. flour. 
I lb. sugar. 3 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; cut the 
pineapple into small pieces ; sieve the flour and baking-powder ; add this and the 
pineapple to the cake mixture. Turn into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, turn out on to a sieve to 
cool. Sieve the icing sugar into a basin ; stir into it enough pineapple syrup to 
make it the consistency of thick cream. Pour this on the cake, allowing it to run 
all over it and down the sides. When nearly set, decorate the cake with pieces of 
glace pineapple and leaves of angelica. Put the cake aside until perfectly set. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, \\ hours. 



2,751. ORANGE-CREAM CAKE. 



4 ozs. sugar. 
4 ozs. flour. 
6 eggs. 



^ teaspoonful baking- 
powder, 
glace oranges. 



2 oranges. 
2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. sugar. 



1 tablespoonful arrow- 
root, 
fondant icing (No. 2,174). 



Beat the sugar and four yolks of eggs together until creamy. Sieve in the flour 
and baking-powder, and lastly stir in the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs. Put 
into a buttered cake-tin, and cook in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. 
When quite cold, spht the cake in two. Put 2 ozs. of butter into a saucepan ; add 
the sugar ; mix the arrowroot with the eggs ; put this with the butter and sugar, 
also the grated rind and juice of two oranges. Stir over a slow fire until the mixture 
thickens and becomes the consistency of thick cream. Spread this cream between 
the layers of cake ; put them together again, and place on an icing-tray. Have 
ready some orange-flavoured fondant icing ; pour this over the cake, covering the 
top and sides completely. When the icing begins to set, decorate the cake with 
glace oranges, arranging the quarters round the edge of the cake, letting each one 
lean on the one before, making a kind of wall round the cake. Place a few more 
quarters of oranges in the centre of the cake, and serve when the icing is firm. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. 



2,752. JELLY-LAYER CAKE. 



2 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 
^ gill milk. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder, 
flour. 



ilb 



2 eggs. 

2 ozs. currants. 

red-currant jelly. 



1 teaspoonful mixed 

spice, 
cocoanut. 



WeU butter two cake-tins. Cream the butter and sugar together ; add the yolks 
of the eggs, beating each egg in well. Stir in the milk, the flour, and baking-powder, 
and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Divide this mixture into two equal 
portions ; put one into one of the buttered cake-tins, and put into a moderate oven 
to bake. To the other portion add 2 ozs. of cleaned currants the spice, and 1 table- 
spoonful of flour. Put this into the other cake-tin, and place in the oven. When 
these cakes are baked, turn them out on to a sieve to cool. As soon as they are 
quite cold, spread a thick layer of red-currant jelly on one of them ; cover with the 
other cake, and spread that also with jelly. Sprinkle the surface with cocoanut 
and serve. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, li hours. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



815 



2,753. BOSTON CAKE. 



J lb. butter. 
6 ozs. sugar. 
J lb. flour. 
3 eggs. 



1 gill sour milk. 
J nutmeg. 

\ teaspoonful carbonate 
of soda. 



1 dessertspoonful of orange- 
flower water. 

^ teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

2 ozs. citron-peel. 



Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the yolks of the eggs, 
one at a time. Stir in the orange-flower water, the cinnamon, and haK a nutmeg, 
grated. Add the flour ; dissolve the soda in a little of the milk ; put this into the 
cake ; also the rest of the sour milk, the citron cut into small pieces, and the whites 
of the eggs very stiflfly beaten. Mix these ingredients lightly together, and turn 
into a buttered cake-tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 ^ hours. 

2,754. HONEY CAKE. 

J lb. flour. 3 ozs. butter. I J lb. honey. 

2 eggs. 3 ozs. sugar. ] 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Add the 
honey, and mix thoroughly. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together, stir 
them into the cake mixture. When well mixed, turn into a cake-tin that has been 
lined with paper. Press it down well, make the top level, and put into a moderate 
oven ; bake for about one hour. When done, turn out of the tin, remove the 
paper, and then place on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1^ hours. 



J teaspoonful grated 
cloves and cinna- 
mon mixed. 



2,755. RAISIN CAKES. 

1 lb. flour. J lb. stoned raisins. 1 small tablespoonful 

4 ozs. butter. 1 egg. milk. 

4 ozs. sugar. J grated nutmeg. | pinch of soda. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter ; add the sugar, the grated nutmeg, 
and the spices ; chop the raisins finely, and mix them to the rest of the ingredients. 
Beat the egg, and add it, also the carbonate of soda, mixed with the milk ; work 
into a paste, using more milk if necessary. Turn the mixture on to a floured board, 
roll it out about ^ inch thick, and cut out with a round cutter. Bake in a quick 
oven for ten to fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufiicient for 12 cakes. 



6 eggs. 

6 ozs. sugar. 

6 ozs. flour. 



juice and rind of ^ lemon. 
J lb. icing sugar. 
4 ozs. strawberries. 



1 tablespoonful rasp- 
berry puree, 
baking-powder. 



2,756. MOUSSELINE CAKE. 

1 tablespoonful straw- 
berry puree, 
sugar. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; put the yolks into a basin ; add the 
sugar to them, and cream together until thick. Sieve the flour and baking-powder 
together ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir these into the yolks and 
sugar ; add the grated rind and juice of the lemon ; mix quickly and lightly. Put 
this mixture into a buttered, shallow cake-mould, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about thirty minutes. When done, turn out on to a sieve to cool. Mash the 
strawberries with a fork ; sprinkle with sugar. Cut the cake in half, horizontally ; 
put a layer of the mashed strawberries on the bottom half ; place the other on the 
top ; press together lightly. Put the cake on a wire tray. Sieve the icing sugar 
into a basin ; mix with it the strawberry and raspberry purees mixed ; add a little 
water, if necessary, to make the sugar of the right consistency. Pour this over the 
cake ; sprinkle in the centre a few chopped pistachio-nuts. As soon as the cake 
is dry it is ready to serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, June to August. 
PT. XI. 52 



816 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,757. DELILLE CAKE. 

12 eggs. I 1 lb. flour. orange-water icing (No. 2,176). I pinch of salt. 

1 lb. castor sugar. I 4 ozs. butter. chocolate icing (No. 2,177). I royal icing (No. 2,178). 

Put the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat them over a saucepan of hot 
water until thick and creamy. Take the basin off the saucepan, and whip a Httle 
longer. Then stir in the sifted flour and the melted butter. Mix well. Put this 
mixture into five buttered, flat, round moulds ; each mould should be a size smaller 
than the last. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven. When done, turn the cakes 
out of the moulds, and let them get cold. Ice three of these cakes with orange 
icing and two with chocolate icing. The cakes must be iced alternately with the 
different coloured icings. Arrange the cakes, when dry, one upon the other, alter- 
nating the colours. Make some royal icing, colour it pink with a little cochineal, 
and decorate the cake with it. Dish up, when dry, on a fancy dish-paper, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, labours. 




Fig. 218. — Petits Gateaux. 



PETITS GATEAUX (LITTLE CAKES). 

royal icing (No. 2,178). 
paper cases. 



2,760 ; when baked and cold, cut 
Ice these with pink, white, and 



2,758 

Genoese pastry (No. 2,760). 
fondant icing (Nos. 2,174 and 2,175) 

Prepare the Genoese pastry as in recipe No 
it out into different shapes with fancy cutters 

chocolate fondant icing, and, when dry, ornament with royal icing through a 
forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached. Place them when ready in little fancy- 
paper cases. Serve for afternoon tea. 

Av<;rage cost, Is. 2d. Time required, labours. 

2,759. VICTORIA SANDWICH. 
3 eggs. I 6 ozs. flour. | 6 ozs. sugar. | J teaspoonful baking-powder. ( jam. 
Put the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat weU ; sieve the flour and 
baking-powder together, stir lightly into the eggs and sugar, mix weU. Turn this 
mixture into two round, greased, shallow cake-tins, half in each. Bake in a quick 
oven for about ten minutes. When done, turn out. and let cool. Warm some jam ; 
spread a layer of it over one of the cakes ; place the other on the top, and sprinkle 
with castor sugar. Serve whole or cut in pieces. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



817 



2,760. GENOESE PASTRY. 

.1 large eggs. | 4 ozs. sugar. | 3 ozs. flour. | 2^ ozs. butter, j i teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder ; prepare a cake- tin, grease it, and line 
with paper. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, stand the basin on a stewpan 
containing boihng water, and whip for twenty minutes ; melt the butter. When the 
eggs and sugar are ready, take the basin off the stewpan, and stir in the flour and 
melted butter ; mix lightly and quickly. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, 
and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



3 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



2,761. RASPBERRY GENOESE. 

flour. 1 packet Bird's raspberry blanc- I 2^ ozs. butter. 

jam. mange powder. | ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Add sufficient flour to the blancmange powder to make the quantity up to 
3 ozs. ; add the baking-powder, and pass all together through a sieve. Grease a 
baking- tin. and line it with greased kitchen-paper. Melt the butter in a small 
Btewpan. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin ; stand this on a stewpan of boiling 



/' 




Fig. 219. — Raspberry Genoese. 



water, and beat for twenty minutes. At the end of that time take the basin off 
the hot water, and stir in the flour mixture and the melted butter ; mix all weD 
together. Turn this into the prepared tin ; put into a moderate oven, and bake 
for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out on to a sieve to cool. Cut the 
cake into strips ; put them together in pairs, with raspberry jam between. Dish 
up in a pile on a lace paper, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,762. SWISS ROLL (1). 
3 eggs. I their weight in sugar and flour. | ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. | jam. 
Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat them together with a 
whisk. Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; stir lightly, and turn on to a well- 
buttered and papered tin. Spread rather thinly over the tin, getting it a little 
thicker at the sides and corners. Place in a hot oven, and bake for five to ten 
minutes. Have ready a piece of paper sprinkled with sugar, and also some jam 

52—2 



/ 



818 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



?rarmed over the fire. Turn out the roll on to the sugared paper ; remove the 
paper from the roll, spread with the warm jam, and roll up as quickly as possible. 
Place on a sieve to cool. After the cake is taken from the oven, it should be rolled 
as quickly as possible, or the cake will harden and then crack when rolled. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,763. SWISS ROLL (2). 
2 eggs. I their weight in sugar, butter, and flour. | \ teaspoonful baking-powder. | jam. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; work them together with a wooden spoon 
until creamy, then beat in the eggs, one at a time ; beat well ; sieve the flour and 
baking-powder together, stir it into the butter and sugar ; mix all well together. 
Butter a baking-sheet, line it with greased paper. Turn the mixture out on to this, 
spread it over with a knife, taking care to have the mixture thick in the corners 
and down the sides ; bake in a quick oven for eight or ten minutes. Put sufficient 
jam into a saucepan, melt it, and make it hot. When the cake is done, turn it out 
on to a sugared paper ; take off the paper quickly, spread with the jam, roll up 
quickly, and put it on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. 




Fig. 220.— Swiss Eoll. 



2 eggs. 

\ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

1 lemon. 



\ gill water. 

1 tablespoonful cornflour. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



2,764. LEMON SWISS ROLL. 

the weight of 2 eggs in butter, 

sugar, and flour, 
legg. 

Mix the cornflour with \ gill of water until quite smooth ; put it into a saucepan, 
and stir over the fire until it boils. Let it cook for a few minutes ; then add 4 ozs. 
sugar, grated rind and juice of one lemon ; let it cool a little, then stir in one egg, 
well beaten. Cook this over the fire again, and let it simmer for a few minutes. 
Paper and butter a baking-tin for the Swiss roll. Cream the butter and sugar 
together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve the flour and baking-powder 
together ; stir into the butter and eggs. Spread this mixture on the prepared tin ; 
cook in a quick oven for five or ten minutes. Turn out on to a piece of paper 
which has been sprinkled with castor sugar ; spread quickly with the prepared 
lemon mixture, roll it up tightly, and place on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC, 



819 



2,765. YULE LOG. 

Swiss roll (No. 2,702). | chocolate icing. | almond-paste. | green colouring. 

Prepare a Swiss roll ; let it get cold, then cut off the ends of the roll. Prepare 
some royal icing ; colour it a dark brown with melted chocolate ; beat well. Put 
the icing into a paper cornet, with a ribbon or rose-pipe attached to it. Ice the 
roll all over with this in straight rows ; imitate here and there a knot in the wood. 
Do the ends of the roll in the same way ; let the log dry a little, then decorate it 
with almond-paste, to represent mistletoe. Keep a small piece of the almond-paste 
white ; colour the remainder green with spinach greening. W-ith the latter make a 
\)ng stem, to go right along the cake. Shape some leaves to resemble mistletoe as 
much as possible ; with the white almond icing make some small rounds the shape 
of peas, to represent the berries. Arrange these on the log, and it is then ready. 

Average cost, Is. Time required after roll is baked, 30 minutes. Seasonable 
at Christmas-time. 




Fig. 221.— Yule Log. 



2,766. SMALL SWISS ROLLS. 
2 eggs. I 3 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. sugar. | 3 ozs. flour. | pinch of baking-powder. | jam. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and cream them together ; then add the 
eggs, one at a time ; beat them in well. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together ; 
stir lightly into the mixture. Butter a baking-sheet ; cover with greased paper ; 
spread the mixture over it, and bake in a moderate oven for about eight to ten 
minutes. Have ready a piece of paper sprinkled with castor sugar ; turn the cake 
on to this ; take off the paper ; spread some warm jam over quickly ; divide the 
cake into eight or ten equal pieces ; roll up quickly. Sprinkle with sugar, place on 
a sieve to cool, then dish up. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufficient for 8 or 10 rolls. 



2,767. CHOCOLATE SWISS ROLL. 

2 eggs. I their weight in butter, sugar, | IJ ozs. grated chocolate. 

J teaspoonful baking-powder. 1 and flour. raspberry jam. 

Prepare a baking-tin by lining it with paper and buttering it. Cream the butter 
and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve the flour and 
baking-powder. Stir into the butter and eggs and also the grated chocolate. If 



820 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

the mixture is too stiff, a little milk may be added. Turn on to the prepared tin, 
spread it over evenly ; place in a hot oven, and bake for five to ten minutes. Turn 
out on to a piece of paper sprinkled with sugar. Spread quickly with hot raspberry 
jam, roll up tightly, and place on a sieve to cool. 
Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,768. MADELEINE CAKES. 

4 eggs- I h ^b. flour. | J lb. sugar. | 4 ozs. butter. | vanilla. 

Break the eggs into a basin ; add the sugar ; work together over a saucepan 
of hot water until thick and creamy. Sieve the flour ; melt the butter. Take the 
basin with the eggs ofi the hot water ; stir in the flour, vanilla, and melted butter ; 
fill some madeleine-moulds with this mixture ; put them into a fairly hot oven, and 
bake about ten minutes. Turn on to a sieve to cool when baked. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 18 cakes. 



2,769. WALNUT LAYER CAKE. 



6 eggs. 



6 ozs. flour. 



shelled walnuts, 
vanilla. 



^ teaspoon ful baking-powder. I 4 ozs. icing 
6 ozs. sugar. 4 ozs. butter. fondant icing (No. 2,174). | sugar. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; add the sugar to the yolks, and beat 
together until creamy. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together, and whisk 
the whites of the eggs very stiffly. Stir these ingredients very lightly into the yolks 
and sugar. Turn the mixture into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven 
for thirty to forty-five minutes. Turn out on a sieve to cool. When quite cold, 
cut through into several slices. Sieve the icing sugar ; put it into a basin with the 
butter, and cream them together with a wooden spoon until quite soft. Chop some 
shelled walnuts finely ; add them to the butter and sugar ; flavour with vanilla 
essence. Spread this butter icing on each of the slices of cake ; put them all 
together again, and press lightly, to make them adhere. Cover the top and 
sides of the cake with vanilla-flavoured fondant icing. Decorate with a few 
Celled walnuts. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 hours. 



5 ozs. flour. 

3 ozs. florador (medium grain). 



2,770. FLORADOR CAKE. 

2 ozs. sugar. 2 eggs. | milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. | 1 lemon. 



2 ozs. butter. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Add the 
florador, the grated rind of one lemon, and the sieved flour and baking-powder. 
Stir all these well together ; add a little milk if the mixture is too stiff. Turn 
into a buttered cake-tin, and bake for three-quarters to one hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 1 hours. 

2,771. SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs. I 4 ozs. sugar. | 4 ozs. flour. | 1 gill water. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; put the sugar into a small stewpan with the water, 
and let it simmer until the syrup sticks to the fingers. Beat the eggs for ten minutes ; 
add the syrup to them, and beat for ten minutes longer ; then stir the flour in very 
lightly and quickly. Have ready a well-buttered mould ; sprinkle with castor 
sugar ; pour in the mixture, and bake in a rather slow oven for twenty to thirty 
minutes. Turn out on a sieve when done. 

Average cost, 4d. or 5d. Time required, 1 hour. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



821 



2,772. BALMORAL CAKE. 
4 eggs. I 4 ozs. flour. | 4 ozs. sugar. 

Break the eggs into a basin ; add the sugar to them ; sieve the flour. Beat the 
eggs and sugar together for twenty minutes. To do this, stand the basin on a 
saucepan containing a Uttle hot water. When the eggs and sugar have increased 
to twice the quantity, and are thick and creamy, stir in the flour quickly and lightly. 
Have ready buttered a Balmoral cake-tin ; sprinkle with sugar ; pour in the mixture, 
and bake in a slow oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Turn out on to a sieve 
to cool. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 50 to 60 minutes. 




Fig. 222. — Balmoral Cake. 

2,773. SMALL SPONGE CAKES. 
4 eggs. I 4 ozs. sugar. | 4 ozs. flour. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and beat them together for fifteen minutes. 
Sieve the flour, and stir it lightly into the mixture. Butter some small sponge- 
cake tins ; dust them over with sugar or flour ; fill them three parts full with the 
mixture. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn 
them out of the tins on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 35 minutes. Sufiicient for 12 small cakes. 



2,774. SAVOY CAKE. 

8 eggs. I ^ lb. flour. | i lb. loaf sugar. | f lemon. | water. 

Rub the lemon-rind on to some of the lumps of sugar ; put this with the rest of 
the sugar into a stewpan ; add the juice of the lemon and enough water to make 
it up to I pint ; boil until it becomes a thick syrup. Break the eggs into a basin 
and beat for ten minutes, then stir the hot syrup into them ; whisk for ten minutes 
longer. Work in the flour quickly and lightly. Butter a Savoy -mould, dredge it 
with sugar, turn in the mixture, and bake in a very moderate oven for about thirty 
minutes. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. 



822 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



1 lb. flour. 
8 ozs. treacle. 
1 oz. ginger. 



1 lemon. 

2 ozs. ground 
almonds. 



2,775. FRENCH GINGERBREAD. 

1 teaspoonful baking- 4 ozs. butter. 

powder. ^ teaspoonful ground cloves and 

1 egg. nutmeg, mixed. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Put the butter into a stewpan, 
and just as it becomes liquid, add the treacle to it ; warm it over the fire together 
until it is thoroughly mixed. Grate the lemon-rind into the flour. Beat the egg ; 
mix it with the treacle and butter off the fire. Mix the almonds and spice into the 
flour. Stir in the liquid ingredients, and mix all well together ; add a little milk if 
necessary. Beat until quite smooth. Put the mixture into a well-greased baking- 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty to forty minutes. Turn out when 
done, and cut it into shapes or fingers, and serve. If liked, before the cake is cut 
up, it can be iced with French icing, nicely flavoured. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour 



2,776. WHITE GINGERBREAD. 



1 lb. flour. 
\ lb. butter. 



J lb. castor sugar. 
1 oz. ground ginger. 



legg. 
milk. 



1 lemon. 

^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 



Sieve the flour into a basin ; mix in the sugar, ground ginger, and the grated 
rind of the lemon. Warm the butter ; beat it until creamy ; whisk the egg ; add it 
to the butter, and mix them into the other ingredients ; stir all well together ; warm 
a little milk, mix into it the carbonate of soda. Work into a smooth paste. Butter 
a baking-sheet, and drop the mixture on to it with a spoon. Bake the cakes in a 
moderate oven. When cooked, let them get cold, and then serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,777. SCOTCH GINGERBREAD. 



1 lb. flour. 
4 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. oatmeal. 

1 oz. ground ginger. 



J teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 
milk. 



J lb. treacle. 

Beat the butter in a basin until creamy ; add the egg to it and the treacle, then 
stir in the flour, oatmeal, and ginger ; mix all well together ; warm a little milk ; 
add the carbonate of soda to it ; stir thoroughly to a light dough. Well grease a 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn it 
out on to a sieve to cool ; then serve, either whole or cut in strips, or any other fancy 
shapes. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,778. HONEY CAKES. 



\ pint honey. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. 

2 ozs. almonds. 



4 ozs. candied peel. 
1 glass rum. 
lemon. 



1 teaspoonful ground nut- 
meg and cloves. 
French icing (No. 2,176). 



J teaspoonful bicar- 
bonate of soda. 
i lb. flour. 

Put the honey and sugar into a stewpan ; bring them slowly to the boil ; chop 
the almonds with the skins on ; add them to the honey ; simmer for about five 
minutes. Take the pan off the fire ; stir in the flour, the candied peel cut in fine 
atrips, the grated rind of the lemon, the spice, soda, and lastly the rum. Sufficient 
flour must be worked in to make the mixture into a dough of a consistency to roll 
out. Turn the dough out on to a floured board while still warm ; roll it out very 
thinly, cut it into pieces 4 inches long by 2 inches wide ; place them on floured 
baking-tins, and put them in a cool place to stand for twelve hours. Then bake 
them in a moderate oven, taking care not to let them brown. When done, let them 
cool ; then mask with French icing, flavoured to taste. As soon as this is set the 
cakes are ready for use. 

Average cost. Is. lOd. Time required, 20 minutes to make, 10 minutes to bake, 
10 minutes to ice. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



823 



2,779. YORKSHIRE PARKINS. 



i lb. coarse oatmeal. 
J oz. ground ginger. 



I lb. treacle. 
I lb. flour. 



^ oz. mixed spice. 
6 OZ3. brown sugar. 



J lb. butter, 
milk. 



J oz. carbonate 
of soda. 



Mix the oatmeal and flour together ; rub in the butter lightly ; add the sugar, 
spice, and ginger. Melt the treacle ; stir it into the cake ; dissolve the soda in a 
httle milk ; add this last of all, and some more milk, if required, to make it into a 
soft dough. Divide this mixture into small flat cakes ; brush them over with milk ; 
place on a greased tin, and cook in a slow oven. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,780. CORBEILLES (BASKETS). 



3 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



2 ozs. butter. 

3 ozs. flour. 



angelica, 
cream. 



^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 
jam. 



Beat the eggs and sugar together over hot water until thick and creamy. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; sieve the flour and baking-powder ; stir these ingredients 
into the beaten eggs. Have ready buttered some deep, round or oval tins ; nearly 
fill these with the cake mixture, and put into a moderate oven to bake for about 




Fig. 223. — Cobbeilles. 



ten minutes. Turn them out of the tins, and let them get quite cold. Then cut a 
slice off the top of each cake ; hollow out a little of the centre, and fill with a spoonful 
of jam. Soak a strip of angelica in hot water until it will bend without breaking ; 
cut it into thin pieces, and put one across each cake, to represent handles. Cut 
the slices that were removed from the cakes in halves. Place two of these on each 
basket, standing them nearly upright, to represent the lid of the basket. Whip 
the cream very stiffly ; put it into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and fill the cavities 
under the lids with roses of whipped cream. Dish up on a lace paper. 
Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 



Genoese pastry (No. 2,760). 
almonds. 



2,781. CHOCOLATE PRALINE. 

chocolate icing (No. 2,177). 2 ozs. butter. 

1 oz. chocolate. 2 ozs. icing sugar. 

Make the Genoese pastry in a deep tin, so that it is about 1^ inches thick when 
baked. Let the pastry get quite cold, and, if possible, do not use it until the 
following day, as in that case it will cut much better than if it is quite new. Cut 



824 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

the pastry in squares about \\ inches across. Have ready some almonds that have 
been blanched and skinned, then chopped coarsely, and baked in the oven until a 
pale fawn colour. Coat the squares of pastry with chocolate icing, covering the 
tops and sides completely. When the icing begins to set, cover the sides only with 
the burnt almonds. Put the cakes away to get quite firm. Grate 1 oz. of chocolate ; 
melt it in a very little water over a low fire ; put the butter into a basin ; sieve the 
icing sugar ; add it to the butter, and cream them together ; lastly, stir in the melted 
chocolate. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a rose-tube ; cover the top 
of the cakes with roses, forcing them out close together. Dish up, and serve. 
Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour after the pastry is made. 



\ lb. flour. I 1 egg. 

2 ozs. sugar. 1 2 ozs. butter. 



apricot jam. 
desiccated cocoanut. 



2,782. COCOANUT BALLS. 

^ teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the egg, and then stir 
in the sieved flour and baking-powder. A little milk can be added if required, but 
the mixture must be stiff. Make into balls ; place them on a floured tin, and bake 
in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. When they are quite cold, cover 
them with apricot jam, and then roll in cocoanut. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,783. PITCAITHLY BANNOCKS. 
J lb. flour. I 6 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. peel. | 3 ozs. sugar. ( 2 ozs. almonds. 

Blanch and peel the almonds ; cut them into rather coarse strips. Chop the 
peel finely, removing the sugar from the centre. Sieve the flour into a basin ; 
rub the butter in lightly ; add the sugar, peel, and shredded almonds. Mix this 
all together with the hand until it forms a dough. No moisture of any kind should 
be added to the mixture. Turn on to a floured board ; roll it out about ^ inch in 
thickness ; cut into rounds or squares. Place them on a floured tin ; prick the cakes 
with a fork, and pinch round the edges with the fingers. Cook in rather a slack oven 
until they are quite crisp and a pale brown. Leave on the tin until they are cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,784. SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES. 



3 ozs. butter. 
3 ozs. sugar. 



6 ozs. flour. 



3 ozs. grated chocolate. 



3 eggs. ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 



Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs one at a time. Add the 
grated chocolate, and, lastly, the sieved flour and baking-powder. Butter some 
small tins ; fill with the chocolate mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes. Turn them out of the tins, and place on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,785. BOUCHEES DAMES (LADY BOUCHEES). 

A eggs. I 4 ozs. sugar. | 3^ ozs. flour. | vanilla essence. { apricot jam. { fondant icing (No. 2,174). 
Separate the yolks and whites of eggs ; put the yolks in one basin, the whites 
in another. Put the sugar to the yolks, and work them together with a wooden 
spoon until light and creamy ; flavour with vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs 
until a stiff froth. Add the flour and whites of eggs to the yolks and sugar. Stir 
in lightly and quickly until well mixed. Drop this mixture on to some foolscap 
paper in round shapes, about 2 inches in diameter ; bake in a quick oven. When 
done, take them from the oven, and leave till cold ; then take them off the paper, 
trim with a round cutter, and put two together, with apricot jam between. Have 
ready some fondant icing ; dip the cakes into it, so that they are coated all over ; 
place them on a sieve to dry. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 12 cakes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 825 

2.786. TRANCHES A L'ORANGE. 

Oenoese pastry (No. 2,760). | 2 oranges. | apricot jam. | ^ lb. icing sugar. ] candied orange-peel. 

Prepare the Genoese pastry ; add to it the grated rind of two oranges. Put 
the mixture into two square, flat tins, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, 
turn it out on to a sieve to cool. Pass the icing sugar through a fine sieve into a 
basin ; mix it with the juice of the oranges until it is of the consistency of thick 
cream. Spread one of the cakes with apricot jam ; put the other one over, sand- 
wich fashion. Pour the icing over, and let it set a little. Cut the cake into strips, 
and decorate each strip with candied orange-peel cut out in fancy shapes. Dish 
up, and serve. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. 

2.787. TRANCHES AU CITRON. 

Genoese pastry (No. j 2 lemons. ^ lb. icing sugar. 

2,760). I raspberry jam. candied lemon-peel. 

Prepare and bake the pastry in two flat tins. When done, turn on to a sieve 
to cool. The grated rind of the lemon is to be added to the mixture before it is 
baked. Make the icing with the icing sugar and juice of the lemons, as in last 
recipe. Put the two cakes together, with raspberry jam between ; pour the icing 
over, and when half set, cut in strips ; decorate with the candied lemon-peel cut 
out in fancy shapes. Dish up and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,788. ALMA CAKES. 
10 0Z3. flour. I 1 oz. butter. | 3 ozs. sugar. | 1 gill milk. | ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin, rub the butter in, add the sugar, 
and mix to a dough with the milk. Turn on to a floured board ; roU out about 
J inch thick ; cut into rounds ; place on a floured board, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,789. SWISS CAKES. 



10 ozs. flour. 



3 ozs. sugar. 1 egg 



2 ozs. butter. 



milk. I almond essence. I J teaspoonful baking- 

mixed spice. I almonds. I powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly ; 
add the sugar, ^ teaspoonful of mixed spice, and a few drops of almond essence. 
Beat the egg in a basin, add to the mixture, and make into a dough with a Uttle 
milk. Turn out on a floured board ; roll out about J inch thick, and place them 
on a floured baking-tin. Blanch, peel, and chop some almonds ; brush the cake 
over with a little beaten egg ; sprinkle thickly with almonds ; place in a moderate 
oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, place on a sieve until cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,790. CURRANT TARTLETS. 



i lb. puff -pastry (No. 2,185). 

2 ozs. cakecrumbs. 

3 ozs. sugar. 



1 oz. ground rice, 
water icing (No. 2,176). 

2 ozs. currants. 



2 ozs. batter. 

2 whites of eggs. 

1 tablespoonful cocoanut. 

Roll out the pastry ; cut it into rounds, and line some patty-pans with it. Cream 
the butter and sugar together ; mix in the rice, cakecrumbs, and currants. Whisk 
the whites stiffly, and stir lightly into the mixture. Put into the patty-pans, and 
bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Remove from the tins, and 
place on a sieve to cool. When quite cold, cover the top with a little lemon- 
flavoured water icing ; sprinkle thickly with desiccated cocoanut, and put aside 
to set. 

Average cost, la. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. 



826 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,791. DEVONSHIRE CAKES. 



J lb. butter. 
6 ozs. sugar. 



milk. 

J oz. cream of tartar. 



\ oz. carbonate ot 

soda. 



1 lb. flour. I 2 eggs. 

\ lb. currants. | mixed spice. 

Sieve the flour, cream of tartar, and carbonate of soda into a basin ; rub the 
butter in lightly ; add the sugar, currants, and a little mixed spice. Beat the eggs 
in a basin, stir into the mixture, and add enough milk to make into a dough. Put 
the mixture in buttered crinkled patty-pans, dust them over with sugar, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,792. CHILDERN TARTLETS. 



\ lb. short-pastry (No. 2,183). 
2 eggs. 



2 ozs. breadcrumbs. 
2 whites of eggs. 



1 lemon. 

1 teacupful golden syrup. 

Roll out the pastry ; line some tartlet-moulds with it ; prick the bottom of each 
with a fork. Put the breadcrumbs into a basin ; beat two eggs ; warm the golden 
syrup ; add both these ingredients to the breadcrumbs. Grate the rind of one 
lemon ; squeeze the juice, and stir into the mixture. Put some of this preparation 
into the lined tins. Whip the whites of the eggs stiffly, and decorate the tops of each 
tartlet with a little of the whipped white. Dust them over with castor sugar, and 
place in a moderate oven to bake. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,793. MACAROON TARTLETS. 



\ lb. short-pastry (No. 
2,183). 



4 ozs. sugar, 
legg. 



i oz. 
jam. 



butter. 



4 ozs. ground almonds, 
f oz. flour. 



Roll out the pastry ; line some patty-pans with it ; prick the bottom of each 
with a fork. Mix the flour, sugar, and almonds together ; beat the egg, and stir 
into the mixture ; melt the butter, and add last. Put a little jam at the bottom of 
each patty-pan, and cover with the macaroon mixture. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,794. TARTELETTES AU RHUM. 



J lb. puff -pastry. 

4 ozs. ground almonds. 



4 ozs. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 



1 gill rum. 

\ lb. icing sugar. 



6 ozs. castor sugar. 
3 eggs. 

Roll out the pastry ; line some tartlet-moulds with it. Put the ground almonds 
into a basin ; mix in the sugar and flour ; melt the butter, and add it to the rest of 
the ingredients, with the eggs and i gill of rum. Mix all well together ; fill the 
tartlets with this mixture ; bake them in a moderate oven. Sieve the icing sugar 
into a basin ; add the \ gill of rum to it, and what water may be required ; mix to 
the consistency of thick cream. When the tartlets are done, take them out of the 
oven and coat the top with a layer of the icing. Serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes, after pastry is made. Seasonable 
at all times. Sufficient for 12 small tartlets. 

2,795. PUITS D'AMOUR (LOVE WELLS). 

2 ozs. butter. 4 ozs. flour. I red-currant jelly. 
2 ozs. sugar. 1 egg. I 6 pistachio-nuts. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft, add the egg, stir well into the 
mixture, and beat for a few minutes. Sieve the flour, and stir it into the rest of the 
ingredients ; mix into a stiff paste. Turn it on to a floured board ; roU out about 
\ inch thick ; stamp out some rounds with a crinkly cutter. When the mixture 
has aU been cut out in these rounds, take half of them, and with a smaller cutter 
take out the centres, so as to form rings. Place these rings on the top of the plain 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 827 

rounds ; put them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about ten minutes. When done, take them up and let them cool ; then fill the centre 
of each with red-currant jelly. Blanch the pistachio-nuts, take off the skin, chop 
them finely, and sprinkle them over the jelly. Dish up on a fancy paper, and serve 
<!old. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 12 cakes. 

2,796. TRANCHES A LA NEIGE (SNOW CAKES). 

J lb. butter. | 2 ozs. flour. | raspberry jam. vanilla essence. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. | 2 whole eggs and 1 white of egg. | 1 oz. ground almonds. lemon-rind. 

Put the butter and 3 ozs. of sugar into a basin ; work together until creamy, 
then add the yolks of the eggs, the flour, ground almonds, and a few drops of 
vanilla essence. Whip stiffly the whites of two eggs, and stir lightly into the 
mixture. Grease a flat tin ; turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Whisk the third white of egg very stiffly ; stir in 1 oz. of sugar and a little lemon- 
rind. Spread the cake when it is baked with a layer of raspberry jam, over that 
put the meringue mixture. Cut the cake into squares or fingers, and place in the 
oven to bake a pale colour. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 35 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 cakes. 



2,797. IRRESISTIBLES. 



essence of almonds. 



J gill whipped cream, 
pistachio -nuts. 



Genoese mixture. I 4 ozs. castor sugar. 

3 ozs. ground almonds. | vanilla essence. raspberry jam. 

Bake the Genoese mixture in a flat, shallow tin ; when done, turn it out on to a 
sieve to cool. Mix the ground almonds and sugar together ; make into a stiff paste 
with a little water ; flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence and a drop or two of 
almond essence ; the latter adds to the flavour of the almonds, but can be omitted 
if a few bitter almonds are included in the ground almonds. Put the almond-paste 
on to a board dusted with icing sugar ; roll it out carefully. Cut out in rounds with 
a crinkly cutter about 1| inches in diameter. Cut out the Genoese pastry with 
y the same cutter ; slice these pieces of cake horizontally into pieces | inch thick. 
Take one of these pieces, spread over it a thin layer of raspberry or strawberry jam ; 
place on this one of the thin rounds of almond-paste, then another thin layer of 
jam, then a piece of Genoese. Whip the cream, and put rather a thick layer on 
each cake ; sprinkle over a few blanched and chopped pistachio-nuts, and serve 
for afternoon tea. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required after Genoese cake is cold, 15 minutes. 
Seasonable always. Sufficient for 10 or 12 cakes. 

2,798. PETITS gAtEAUX A LA TURQUE. 



3 eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. 



2 ozs. butter. 

3 ozs. flour. 



white fondant icing angelica. 
(No. 2,174). flavouring. 



Break the eggs into a basin ; add the sugar, and beat well until it is the con- 
sistency of thick cream. It will take twenty minutes to half an hour to beat. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; sieve the flour ; stir these quickly and lightly 
into the yolks and sugar. Turn the mixture into a greased, oblong, flat tin, and 
bake in a fairly hot oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, turn out and 
let the cake get cold, then cut it out into crescents. Flavour the icing according 
to taste ; pour it over the cakes ; let them set, but do not let them get quite hard. 
Cut some stars and crescents out of angelica, one of each for each cake ; fii these on 
the cakes. They are then ready to serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required to make and bake the cake, 30 to 35 minutes. 
Seasonable always. Sufficient for 12 cakes. 



828 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,799. PETITS CHOUX PRALINfiS. 
2J ozs. flour. I 1 gill milk. 1 yolk of egg. | 1 tablespoonful whfpped cream. 



1 oz. butter. | 1 whole egg. 1 oz. sugar. ( almonds. 

Sieve the flour ; put the butter and milk into a stewpan and bring to the boil ; 
stir in the flour quickly and vigorously until the mixture leaves the side of the 
pan, then remove from the fire ; let it cool ; then beat the eggs in, one at a time ; 
add the sugar and the whipped cream. Form the paste, when cold, into small 
cakes ; have ready some blanched almonds cut in strips ; stick these all over the 
little shapes ; brush over the egg, and bake in a very cool oven for about half an 
hour. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 8 cakes. 

2,800. PETITS CHOUX AU CARAMEL. 

choux-paste (No. 2,186). | 4 ozs. sugar. [ 1 gill water. | pistachio-nuts. | castor sugar. 

Prepare the choux-paste ; let it get cold, then shape it into small balls ; bake 
them in a cool oven for half an hour or longer. Put the sugar and water into a 
stewpan ; boil until the water has evaporated and the sugar becomes a dark golden 
colour. Take the little choux, one at a time, on the end of a skewer, dip them into 
the caramel, and then roll at once in chopped pistachios mixed with castor sugar ; 
put them on to a wire sieve, and leave till set. Arrange them on a dish with an 
ornamental paper, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 8 or 9 cakes. 

2,801. PETITS CHOUX GLACfi A LA CR£ME. 
choux-paste (No. 2,186). | French icing (No. 2,176). | vanilla. | whipped cream. | cochineal. 

Prepare the choux-paste ; make into round shapes, and bake in a cool oven 
for about thirty minutes ; they should be a golden brown, and crisp. Take up, put 
them on a sieve, and let them get cold. Prepare some white French icing ; flavour 
it with a few drops of vanilla essence. Coat the petits choux with it ; let them 
stand until quite set. Whip some cream ; colour it with a drop or two of cochineal 
a pretty pink. Put this into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe, and decorate the top 
of each with a large rose. Dish up on a fancy dish-paper, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 8 cakes. 



2,802. COFFEE FINGERS. 



coffee icing. 



2 eggs. I 3 ozs. butter, j 3 ozs. flour. 

J gill coffee essence. | 3 ozs. sugar. I J teaspoonful baking-powder. chopped almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat the eggs in, one at a time ; add the^ 
coffee essence, and then the flour and baking-powder sieved together. Mix^ 
thoroughly ; turn into a greased Yorkshire tin, and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. 
Turn on to a sieve, cut into fingers, and cover with coffee icing ; sprinkle with 
chopped almonds. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hout. 



3 ozs. Mexican chocolate. 
2 ozs. butter. 



2,803. CHOCOLATE FINGERS. 
2 ozs. sugar. J teaspoonful baking- 



1 



powder. 



6 ozs. flour, 
chopped almonds. 



Put the chocolate in the oven until soft, then put it into a basin, with the butter 
and sugar. Cream all these together until soft ; beat in the egg thoroughly, and, 
lastly, add the sieved flour and baking-powder. Make this into a stiff dough, 
adding a little milk if required. Roll out about \ inch thick ; cut into fingers ; 
put them on a floured tin ; brush them over with egg, and sprinkle with chopped 
almonds. Bake for about fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



829 



2 eggs. 

4 ozs. butter. 



4 ozs. sugar. 
1 lb. flour. 



2,804. ALEXANDRA CAKES. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. pistachio-nuts, 
almond essence. water icing (No. 2.176). 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time, and flavour 
with almond essence. Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; turn into a large 
Yorkshire tin, previously greased. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes. When cold, cut into small diamond shapes. Have ready some water 
icing, flavoured with almond essence, and coloured pink with cochineal. Ice half 
the diamond shapes with it, and, when half set, place another diamond shape of 
cake on the top of each. Ice the whole of each cake over again, and sprinkle with 
chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. 



2,805. QUEEN CAKES. 



4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 



6 ozs. flour. 
4 ozs. sultanas. 



1 oz. candied peel. I rind of 1 lemon. 

3 eggs. I ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Grease one dozen queen-cake 
tins. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and cream them together with a 
wooden spoon until soft ; add the eggs, one at a time, beating each in well before 




Fio. 224. — Queen Cakes. 



putting in the next. Have the fruit (cleaned) ready, the candied peel (chopped), 
and the rind of the lemon (grated) ; stir the flour into the butter and eggs ; add 
the fruit ; mix all well together quickly. Put the mixture into greased tins, filling 
them half fuU ; bake in a moderate oven about fifteen to twenty minutes. When 
s^ done, turn them out of the tins on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, lOd. or Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient to make 
12 cakes. 

2,806. LANGUES DE CHAT (CATS' TONGUES). 

J lb. butter. | 5 ozs. sugar. ) 5 ozs. flour. | 3 whites of eggs. | J oz. ground almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until quite soft ; add the flour, ground 
almonds, and the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix together thoroughly, and 
then place in small long heaps on a buttered and floured tin. Put into a cool 
oven until a pale brown colour. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



830 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,807. MARMALADE CAKES. 

8 OZ3. flour. I 4 ozs. butter. I 3 eggs. 

\ teaspoonful baking-powder. | 4 ozs. sugar. | 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder together. Grease some small queen-cake 
tins ready. Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; cream them together with a 
wooden spoon until soft ; break in the eggs, and beat each egg in well before adding 
the next ; then stir in the marmalade ; add the flour ; mix all well together. Fill 
the prepared tins half full ; put them into a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen 
to twenty minutes. When done, turn on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 35 minutes. Sufficient for 12 cakes. 



1^ ozs. flour. 



2,808. COCOANUT BISCUITS. 

i lb. desiccated cocoanut. | 4 ozs. castor sugar. | 3 whites of eggs. 

Put the whites of eggs into a basin ; whisk them until they become a stiff froth. 
Mix the cocoanut, sugar, and flour together in a basin, then stir in the whites of 
the eggs until a stiff and rather crumbly mixture is formed. Add the whites of eggs 




Fig. 225. — Cocoanut Biscuits. 



by degrees. The whole of it may not be required, as eggs vary in size. When mixed, 
place on a greased baking-sheet in little pjrramid shapes ; bake in a moderate oven 
until the biscuits are firm and lightly browned at the top. Take out of the oven 
when done ; turn them on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 36 biscuits. 

2,809. gAtEAUX DE RIZ (RICE BUNS). 

4 ozs. butter. i 3 eggs. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. 3 ozs. ground rice. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; cream them together with a wooden 
spoon until soft ; break in the eggs, one at a time, beating each one in well before 
adding the next. Mix in the flour, ground rice, and baking-powder. Grease some 
patty-pans ; put in the mixture, filling the tins two- thirds full. Put them into a 
moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When done, turn them out on to a 
sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. 



1^ ozs. flour. 

\ teaspoonful baking-powder. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



831 



2,810. ALMOND PYRAMIDS, 
i lb. almonds. ( 2 ozs. castor sugar. | J oz. flour. | 2 whites of egg. | J oz. bitter almonds. 
Blanch and chop the almonds finely : put them into a basin with the sugar and 
flour ; mix together ; whisk the whites of eggs stiffly, and stir into the rest of the 
ingredients to make a stifi paste. Place the mixture on a greased baking-sheet in 
little shapes like pyramids ; bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When 
done, put on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,811. COFFEE -BUTTER PYRAMIDS. 

4 ozs. butter, i 2 ozs. sugar. [ h lemon. | J teaspoonful baking-powder. I coffee icing. 
4 ozs. flour. I 1 yolk of egg. I coffee. i 5 ozs. icing sugar. I royal icing. 

Put 2 ozs. of the butter into a basin with 2 ozs. sugar ; cream them together until 
soft, and then beat in the yolk of the egg. Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; 
add the grated rind of half a lemon ; mix together, adding a little milk if necessary. 




Fig. 226.— Coffee-Butter Pyramids. 



Turn on to a floured board ; knead a few minutes, and roll out rather thinly ; cut 
into rounds 1^ inches in diameter. Put them on a floured tin, and bake for 
about five or eight minutes. Place them on a sieve to cool. Sieve 5 ozs. of icing 
sugar ; put into a basin, with 2 ozs. butter ; cream them together until soft ; flavour 
with coffee. Make a pyramid of this on each biscuit, shaping it to a point with a 
knife dipped in hot water. Sieve | lb. icing sugar, and mix with enough coffee to 
make it the consistency of thick cream. Coat the pyramids with this. Make 
a little royal icing ; flavour it with coffee ; put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, 
and with it make a spiral on each biscuit. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. 



2,812. FAIRY CAKES. 



3 eggs. 

6 ozs. flour. 



^ teaspoonful baking-powder, 
cochineal. 



3 ozs. glac6 cherries. 
1 lemon-rind. 



4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder together ; grate the lemon-rind, and mix 
it with the flour ; chop the cherries finely. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, 
and cream them together with a wooden spoon until soft ; then add the eggs, one 
at a time, beating each one thoroughly before putting in the next. Add the flour 



PT. XI. 



53 



832 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

and the cherries ; stir all together lightly ; colour the mixture a pink shade Avitb 
a few drops of cochineal. Grease some queen-cake tins, and half fill them ^\ ith the 
mixture. Put in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes. When 
done, turn out of the tins on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 12 cakes. 

2,813. PRINCE OF WALES CAKES. 

\ lb. flour. I 3 ozs. sugar. ! milk. f oz. ground rice. 

1 J ozs. butter. I 1 egg. ^teaspoonful baking-powder. 1 lemon. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the egg ; add the flour and baking- 
powder sieved, the ground rice, and grated rind of one lemon. Mix together, 
adding a little milk if necessary ; cut into even-sized pieces, form into long rolls, 
and then tie in knots. Brush them over with water, sprinkle with castor sugar, 
and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,814. LEMON JUMBLES. 
3 ozs. butter. | 3 ozs. sugar. [ 8 ozs. flour. | 1 lemoa. ] 2 eggs. 
Cream the butter and sugar together until soft, then beat the eggs in, one at a 
time. Sieve the flour ; grate the lemon-rind into the flour ; stir this into the butter, 
sugar, and eggs. Mix all well together into a stiff paste. Turn on to a floured 
board, cut in pieces, make them into twirls, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen 
to twenty minutes. When done, place on a sieve to cool. 
Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2 ozs. flour. 
1 oz. butter. 



2,815. CHOCOLATE £CLAIRS. 
1 gill milk. 1 yolk of egg. vanilla. chocolate icing (No. 



1 whole egg. 



2,177). 



cream. 1 sugar. 

Put the butter and milk into a stewpan. Sieve the flour. As soon as the milk 
boils, put in the flour, and mix quickly, and cook over the fire until the paste leaves 
the sides of the pan clean. Take the pan off the fire, and let the mixture cool ; 
then break in the whole egg ; stir until well mixed ; beat well. Proceed in the same 
way with the yolk. As soon as it is thoroughly mixed and well beaten turn on to 
a plate to cool. When cold, put the paste into a forcing-bag and force it out on to 
a baking-sheet in finger shapes about 6 inches long. Put into a moderate oven 
and bake for about thirty minutes. After they are baked, let them get cold, then 
cut them along the side, and take out the soft inside, if there is any. Whip some 
cream ; sweeten and flavour to taste ; fill the eclairs with it by means of a forcing- 
bag. Ice the top with chocolate icing. As soon as this is set the cakes are ready. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required. 1 hour. Sufficient for 10 or 12 eclairs. 

2,816. COFFEE ECLAIRS. 

Proceed in the same way as for chocolate eclairs, flavouring the cream with 
coffee, and using coffee icing instead of chocolate. 

2,817. GATEAUX D'ORANGES A LA BRAZIL (ORANGE CAKES). 

^ lb. Brazil-nuts. 3 eggs. | J lb. butter. 

I lb. castor sugar. 1 oz. ground rice. | 1 orange. 

Shell and blanch the nuts, then weigh the i lb. ; put them into a mortar with 
the ground rice and pound well together. Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; 
work together with a wooden spoon until creamy ; then mix in the pounded nuts, 
the grated rind of the orange, and the strained juice. Add the eggs by degrees ; mix 
thoroughly. Put into little well-greased tins, dust sugar over them, and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 40 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



833 



2,818. VICTORIA CAKES. 



2 ozs. butter. 

3 ozs. sugar. 



2 eggs. 

J glass brandy. 



J lb. Brazil-nut 
kernels. 



^ oz. ground rice, 
glace cherries. 



Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and cream them together with a wooden 
spoon ; then add the eggs, one at a time, beating them well. Blanch the kernels ; 
pound them with the ground rice until fine ; then stir into the other ingredients. 
Add the brandy, and mix all well together. Well butter some small round tins ; 
put some of the mixture in each. Put a glace cherry in the centre. Sprinkle with 
sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 40 minutes. 

2,819. CHAMPIGNONS (MUSHROOMS). 



3 whites of eggs. 

4 ozs. icing sugar. 



6 ozs. castor sugar. 
2 ozs. chocolate. 



pinch of cream of tartar, 
almond-paste (No. 2,180). 



Break the whites into a basin ; add to them the cream of tartar, and whisk until 
very stiff. Then work in the castor sugar, taking care not to stir too much. Put 
this mixture into a paper cornet, and force out on to strips of paper placed on a 




Fio. 227. — Champignons. 

board round shapes, like mushrooms ; sprinkle these with chocolate-powder through 
a dredger ; bake in a very cool oven until firm. Make a small quantity of almond- 
paste, and shape with it a small stalk for each mushroom. Make some chocolate 
icing with the remainder of the chocolate and the icing sugar. When the meringues 
are done, take them off the paper. This is best done by damping the back of the 
paper. Cover the bottom part of each with chocolate icing, and before the icing 
is quite set insert a stalk in each. When the icing is quite set, dish up and serve. 
Average cost, lOd. Time required, 2 or 3 hours. 



Gfenoese pastry (No. 
2,760). 



lemon-juice. 
2 ozs. chocolate. 



apricot jam. 
desiccated cocoanut. 



2,820. DOMINOES. 

J lb. icing sugar. 
1 white of egg. 

Bake the pastry in a Yorkshire tin ; when baked, let it get cold. The cake is 
best baked the day before it is wanted. Cut it into pieces the shape of dominoes ; 
put some apricot jam through a sieve ; coat the sides of the dominoes with it, then 

53—2 



834 TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

sprinkle the cocoanut over the jam. Put \ lb. of icing sugar into a basin, and make 
some royal icing, using the white of the egg and a little lemon- juice. Beat well 
until quite smooth. Ice the top of each domino with this, and let it set. Grate 
the chocolate ; melt it in a very little water ; add it to the icing that is left ; work 
in the remainder of the sugar ; make into a stiff paste ; add a little more lemon-juice 
if necessarJ^ Put this icing into a paper bag with a plain pipe attached, and draw 
a line with it across the dominoes, dividing each into half ; make little dots, so as to 
resemble dominoes. Let them get perfectly dry before dishing them up. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1 hour after pastry is baked. Seasonable 
always. 

2,821. ERIN CAKES. 



\ lb. flour. 



3 yolks of eggs. 

\ teaspoonful baking-powder. 



4 ozs. sugar. 

1 white of egg. 

2 ozs. butter. 



1 gill milk. 

water icing (No. 2,176). 

pistachio -nuts. 



Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; cream them together until soft beat, 
in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, and then the milk. Lastly, add the flour and 
baking-powder, sieved together, and the white of egg, very stiffly beaten. Put 
this into a greased Yorkshire tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes. Turn out, and let it cool. When quite cold, cut into diamond shapes ; 
place these on an icing-tray, and cover each with vanilla-flavoured water icing 
which has been coloured a pale green with sap-green colouring. Blanch a few 
pistachio-nuts, skin them, and then cut into slices across the nut. Put three of 
these together in the form of a shamrock on each cake. Cut some strips of pistachio- 
nut ; place one on each, to represent the stalk of the shamrock. Leave the cakes 
until quite set. then dish up and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1^ hours. 

2,822. DOVER CAKE. 

I lb. butter. I 2 eggs. I nutmeg. cinnamon. 1 tablespoonful brandy. 

I lb. sugar. 1 gill milk. I vanilla. ^ lb. flour. ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a 
time ; then add the milk, brandy, a little grated nutmeg, ground cinnamon, and 
vanilla essence. Sieve the flour and baking-powder, stir into the cake, and then 
turn into a buttered cake-tin. Place in a moderate oven for one to one and a half 
hours. 

Average cost, lid. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,823. CINGALESE CAKES. 
sponge cake (No. 2,771). I red-cxurant jelly. | 2 whites of eggs. | 4 ozs. sugar. 

Make the sponge-cake mixture, and bake it in small dariole- moulds. Turn 
them on to a sieve to cool ; cut them in slices ; spread with red-currant jelly, and 
put together again. Whip the whites of eggs very stiffly ; stir in the sugar ; put 
the mixture into a forcing-bag with a rose-tube, and ornament the top of each cake 
with a pyramid of meringue. Dust them over with castor sugar, and put into a 
very cool oven to dry the meringue without letting it take colour. Serve them 
when cold. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, li hours. 

2,824. CONDE CAKES. 

^ lb. puff-paste (No. 2,185). ! cherries. | J lb. almond-paste (No. 2,180). | angelica. 

Roll out the pufl-pastry ; cut it into fingers 4 inches long and l\ inches broad. 
Roll out the almond-paste ; cut it into fingers the same size as the pastry ; lay an 
almond-paste strip on each piece of puff-pastry ; dust them with castor sugar ; 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 835 

place on a baking-sheet, and cook in a rather cool oven until the pastry is done. 
Take them up, trim the edges, and decorate each with half a cherry and two leaves 
of angelica. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 45 minutes after the pastry is made. 

2,825. COCOANUT-SPONGE DROPS. 

2 eggs. 3 OZ3. flour. I apricot jam. 

3 0Z8. sugar. J teaspoonful baking-powder. I cocoanut. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together with a whisk ; stir in the flour and baking- 
powder sieved. Grease a baking-tin, and put the mixture en it in round heaps. 
Bake for about ten minutes. When cold, spread with apricot jam and roll in 
cocoanut. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,826. BATONS AU RHUM (RUM STICKS), 

3 ozs. butter. I 5 ozs. flour. 1 ^ lb. icing I rum. 

4 ozs. sugar. 2 eggs. | sugar. | ^ lemon. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter ; add the sugar and the grated 
rind of half a lemon ; mix to a paste with the eggs. Turn on to a floured board , 
roll out into a long strip 3 to 4 inches wide and I inch thick. Brush over with beaten 
egg, and bake in a quick oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Put the icing sugar 
through a fine sieve into a basin ; mix it with water to the consistency of cream ; 
flavour with rum. As soon as the cake is taken from the oven pour the rum icing 
over, and cut it at once into strips about 1 inch wide. Let it set, then dish up and 
serve for afternoon tea. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,827. BATONS AUX AMANDES (ALMOND STICKS). 

4 ozs. almonds. 2 whites of eggs. I royal icing (No. 2,178). 

J lb. icing sugar. vaniUa essence. | 2 ozs. vanilla sugar. 

Peel the almonds ; put them into a mortar, and pound with the icing sugar and 
the vanilla sugar ; mix in the whites of the eggs. If not sufficient, add a little more, 
as it depends on the size of the eggs. Put the mixture aside in a cool place for one 
hour. Roll out about | inch thick ; cover with royal icing flavoured with vanilla ; 
cut it into strips ^ inch wide. Arrange these on a greased baking-sheet, and put 
into a cool oven. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,828. GIMBLETTES SUISSE (SWISS GIMBLETS). 
4 ozs. flour. I 2 ozs. castor sugar. | 3 ozs. butter. | ^ lemon-rind. | egg. 

Put the flour into a basin ; add the sugar and butter ; work into a dough ; add 
the grated lemon-rind. Put aside into a cool place for half an hour. Roll out 
about I inch thick. Cut out the paste with a round cutter 2 inches across, then 
from the centre of each cut out a round with a smaller cutter ; brush over with 
beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,829. CROQUETS. 
4 ozs. castor sugar. | 2 whites of eggs. | 3 ozs. flour. | 3 ozs. almonds. 

Whip the whites of eggs in a basin until quite stiff. Have ready the almonds 
peeled and finely shredded ; stir the sugar into the beaten whites ; add the flour and 
the almonds ; mix together quickly and lightly. Arrange on a greased baking-sheet 
in the shape of a finger, and bake in a medium oven. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



836 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,830. CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. 

3 ozs. Cadbury's cocoa. | 1 lb. castor sugar. [ whites of 3 eggs. | vanilla. 

Put the whites of the eggs into a bowl ; beat them to a stiff froth, then add the 
cocoa, sugar, and a few drops of vanilla to flavour. Grease a baking-sheet slightly, 
and drop the mixture from a teaspoon on to it ; they must not be put too close 
together. Bake for ten to fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 

2,831. FANCY MERINGUES. 

4 egg-whites. | 8 ozs. castor sugar. | colourings — i.e., violet, cochineal, etc. 

Beat the whites of the eggs very stiffly, then mix in the sugar quickly and 
lightly. Divide the mixture into portions ; colour each part differently, leaving 
one white. Put these respective mixtures in turn into a forcing-bag with a pipe, 
and force out fancy shapes on to paper arranged on a piece of board. Bake the 
meringues in a cool oven. They must not be allowed to colour. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to bake. Seasonable always. 
Sufficient for 24 meringues. 

2.832. ALMOND BISCUITS. 

4 ozs. butter. [ 4 ozs. sugar. | 10 ozs. flour. | 1 egg. | almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until quite soft ; add the egg ; mix in well. 
Sieve the flour, and stir it in. Use a little milk if necessary, but the paste must 
be of a consistency to roll out. Turn on to a floured board, and roll it out about 
\ inch thick, and cut out some rounds with a cutter. Blanch a few almonds ; cut 
them in strips. Brush the biscuits over with white of egg ; sprinkle the almond 
strips thickly over. Arrange on a floured baking-tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. When done, place on a sieve to cool. Serve 
for afternoon tea. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. 

2.833. DESSERT BISCUITS. 

2 yolks of eggs. 



6 ozs. butter. 

2 ozs. icing sugar. J lb, flour, 



vanilla essence. fondant icing (No. [ glac6 cherries, 
apricot jam. 2,174). | angelica. 

Cream the butter and icing sugar together, then add the yolks of the eggs ; 
beat well ; add the flour and a few drops of vanilla. Mix all well together. Roll 
out thinlj' ; cut into rounds with a cutter ; place them on a baking-sheet, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done, let cool, then put them 
together in couples, with a layer of jam between. Cover them with the icing 
flavoured with rum. Decorate with half a cherry on each and some little leaves 
of angelica. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,834. CHOCOLATE GENOESE. 

3 eggs. 2 ozs. butter 1 oz. chocolate. 

4 ozs. sugar. 3 ozs. flour. J teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a basin ; stand it over a saucepan of boiling water, 
and whisk for ten to fifteen minutes until the mixture is thick and creamy. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; sieve the flour, baking-powder, and grated chocolate 
together. Stir all these ingredients into the beaten eggs and sugar. Turn into a 
papered and buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Turn on to a sieve to cool. Cut in fingers. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 837 

2,835. FRUIT MARZIPAN. 

J lb. almond-paste. | crystallized fruit. | water icing (No. 2,170). | icing sugar. 

Roll out the almond-paste, using sugar instead of flour, to prevent it sticking. 
Cut out into rounds with a crinkled cutter ; place a piece of crystallized fruit in the 
centre of each, fold the almond over, and place on an icing-tray. Have ready some 
pink and white water icing, flavoured with almond or vanilla. Coat the marzipan 
with this, having half of them white and half pink. Serve when the icing has set. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,836. QUEEN COCOANUT CAKES. 



4 ozs. butter. 
8 ozs. sugar. 
6 ozs. flour. 



3 eggs. 



^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

2 whites of eggs. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. 



4 ozs. cocoanut. 

^ gill milk or cream. 

Cream the butter and 4 ozs. sugar together ; beat in the yolks of the eggs, one 
at a time ; then add the milk or cream, the cocoanut, and vanilla essence. Beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; sieve the flour and baking-powder ; stir these 
into the cocoanut mixture. Have ready some small patty-pans ; butter them, and 
then half fill with the preparation ; place them on a baking-tin, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out of the patty-pans ; 
place on a sieve to cool. Whisk two whites of eggs very stiffly ; stir 4 ozs. castor 
sugar into them very lightly, also a drop or two of cochineal, to make it a nice 
pink. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a star tube, and cover the top of 
each cake with the meringue, making it into the form of a pyramid. Dust them 
over with castor sugar ; place in a cool oven, and leave them there until the meringue 
is quite cooked. The meringue should not be allowed to brown. Take them out 
of the oven, and put aside until perfectly cold. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,837. DESSERT CAKES. 

I lb. butter. ' 1 oz. almonds. 2 ozs. currants. 1 oz. peel. ^ teaspoonful baking- 

3 ozs. sugar. 6 ozs. flour. 1 oz. sultanas. 2 eggs. powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub in the butter lightly ; add 
the sugar, the peel, and almonds (chopped), the fruit, and yolks of eggs. Beat 
the M'hites stiffly, and add last of all. Bake in a buttered Yorkshire tin for about 
thirty minutes. Turn out, and cut into small squares ; return to the oven to dry. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,838. SOUPIRS. 

Genoese mixture (No. 2,760). | meringue. ( fondant icing (No. 2,174). 

Make the Genoese mixture ; butter some little bouche-moulds, ffll them with 
the mixture, and bake them in a rather quick oven. When done, turn them out, 
and let them cool. Prepare some meringue mixture ; place a pyramid of this on 
the top of each cake ; put into the oven to set the meringue. When done and 
cool, ice them over with white or pink fondant icing. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,839. SPICE NUTS. 

2 eggs. I ^ lb. flour. 1 1 lemon. | 1 oz. candied peel. 

^ lb. brown sugar. ' | oz. ground cinnamon. I ground cloves. milk. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together for about ten to fifteen minutes ; add the 
cinnamon, grated lemon-rind, a little ground cloves, and the finely-chopped peel. 
Sieve in the flour ; mix thoroughly, and put on a buttered baking-tin in small heaps ; 
brush them over with milk, and put into a moderate oven. When they are cooked, 
remove from the tin and lay them on a sieve, bottom side upwards, and leave to cool. 

Average cost, Gd. Time required, 45 minutes. 



838 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,840. POMMES EN SURPRISE (SURPRISE APPLES). 

Genoese pastry (No. j 6 ozs. ground almonds. I spinach greening. | jam. 
2,760). 8 ozs. castor sugar. i angelica. 1 flavouring. 

Cut the Genoese pastry in rounds, about 1| inches across, with a plain cuttei ; 
split each round in half, and stamp out the centre of one with a smaller cutter, so 
forming a ring ; spread one half with jam ; place the ring on the top. Mix the 
ground almonds and sugar together ; make into a paste with water ; flavour with a 
few drops of almond essence and vanilla or lemon. Colour green with spinach 
greening. Fill the centre of the ring of Genoese with a piece of this green marzipan. 
Roll out the remainder of the marzipan, and cut it into rounds. Put each piece of 
cake in one of these rounds ; place another on the top, and work it round the cake 
so as to make a ball. Make a slight depression at the top, to represent an apple. 
Put one or two pieces of angelica in the depression for the stalk. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 7 or 8 apples. 




Fig. 228. — Pommes bn Surprise. 



2,841. POMMES DE TERRE NOUVELLE. 



legg. 

1 oz. sugar. 



1 oz. 
jam. 



flour. 



J lb. ground 
almonds. 



^ lb. castor sugar. 
1 oz. chocolate. 



vanilla, 
almond essence. 



Separate the yolk and white of the egg into different basins ; put the sugar to 
the yolk, and cream them together until thick. Whip the white to a stiff froth. 
Mix a pinch of baking-powder with the flour ; stir this and the white of the egg 
into the yolk and sugar ; mix quickly and lightly. Spread this on a tin that has 
been greased and lined with greased paper ; bake in a quick oven. When done, 
turn it out and let it get cold ; then cut out small shapes with an oval cutter, and 
put them together in pairs, with a thin layer of jam between. Mix the almonds and 
sugar together ; make into a paste with water ; flavour with almond essence and 
vanilla. Take a piece of this paste and work it round one of the oval pieces of cake, 
shaping it as much like a new potato as possible. Continue to do this until the cake 
and almond-paste are all used up. Grate the chocolate ; mix half of it with a little 
sugar ; keep the other half plain ; roll the potatoes first into the mixed chocolate, 
then into the plain. Mark the potatoes here and there with a blunt instrument, to 
represent eyes. 

Average cost, Is. Id. Time required. 30 mmutes. Sufficient for 10 potatoes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 



839 



2,842. VENICE CAKES. 

3 eggs. I 2 ozs. butter. I raspberries. j royal icing (No. 2,178). 

4 ozs. sugar. I 4 ozs. flour. I ^ lb. icing sugar, i ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together until creamy ; add the butter (melted) and 
the sieved flour and baking-powder. Stir well together, and then spread on a 
buttered baking-tin. Bake in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Turn 
on to a sieve, and when cold cut in halves. Spread one half with crushed rasp- 
berries, dredge with castor sugar, and cover with the other half. Sieve the icing 
sugar ; put it into a basin, and add sufficient sieved raspberries to flavour it and 
make it the consistency of thick cream. Pour this over the top of the cake, and 
when it is set, cut into fancy shapes, such as diamonds, crescents, fingers, etc. 
Have ready some white royal icing ; put it into a forcing-bag with a fancy tube, and 
decorate the cakes in any pattern desired. Put aside to set. 

Average cost. Is. 4d. Time required, 2 hours. 




Fig. 229. — Croissants. 



2,843. CROISSANTS (CRESCENTS). 



4 

4 ozs 



sugar. 



J teaspoonful baking- 
powder. 



4 ozs. flour. I French icing (No. 2,176). 
vanilla. I royal icing (No. 2,178). 



Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; put them into separate basins ; add 
the sugar to the yolks, and work together with a wooden spoon until creamy. Sieve 
the flour and baking-powder ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir the 
flour and whites into the yolks and sugar ; add a few drops of vanilla. When well 
mixed, turn it into a well-greased and lined baking-tin ; bake in a moderate oven for 
about ten to fifteen minutes. When baked, turn the cake on to a sieve to cool. 
Cut into crescents, and ice with different-coloured icing. Let this dry, and then 
ornament with royal icing through a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe. Dish on a lace 
paper, arranging them so that the colours come alternately, in the shape of a star. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 1| hours. Sufficient for 8 or 10 crescents. 



2,844. HUNGARIAN CAKE. 



Genoese cake (No. 2,760). 
J lb. ground almonds. 



water icing (No. 2,176). 
J oz. flour. 



2 ozs. sugar. 
J gill milk. 



1 yolk of egg. 
vanilla essence. 



Mix the flour and milk together until smooth ; 
over the fire until it has boiled for a few minutes 
yolk of egg, and vaniUa essence. Stir over the fire again to cook the yolk of egg. 



put into a saucepan, and stir 
then add the sugar, almonds, 



840 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



When this mixture is cold, spHt the cake in half, and spread with some of this almond 
mixture ; replace the top of the cake, and press together. Put the rest of the almond 
mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube ; force this out in cross-lines on the cake, 
so as to make diamonds. Have ready some pink and white vanilla-flavoured water 
icing ; fill the diamonds alternately with the white and the pink, taking care that 
the cake is quite covered. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1| hours. 



Genoese pastry (No. 
2,760). 



flavouring, 
cochineal. 



2,845. PETITS GATEAUX A LA PRINCESSE. 

4 ozs. ground almonds. jam. I 

6 ozs. castor sugar. i pistachio-nuts. I 

Bake the Genoese in a Yorkshire baking-tin. When done, turn it out and let 
it get cold, then cut it in rounds with a cutter, about 2 inches across ; spread these 
with jam. Mix the ground almonds and sugar together ; flavour to taste ; mix 
into a paste with water coloured with cochineal. The paste should be a pretty 




FxG. 230. — Petits Gateaux a la Princesse. 

rose-pink colour. It must be stiff enough to roll out. Turn it out on to a board 
that has been dusted with icing sugar ; roll it out about ^ inch thick ; cut it in 
rounds with a cutter the size of a sixpence ; press the finger in the centre of each, 
so as to make an indentation. Arrange these little rounds in a circle round the 
edge of the pieces of Genoese, overlapping each other. Blanch and chop a few 
pistachio-nuts ; dredge a little castor sugar over the rings of almond-paste, and 
place a little of the chopped nut in the centre of the cakes. Arrange on a dish 
with a lace paper, and serve for afternoon tea. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 8 cakes. 



4 ozs. sweet almonds. 
2 whites of eggs. 



pinch of ground cinnamon, 
coffee essence. 



2,846. COFFEE ROLLS. 

\ lb. flour. 

I lb. moist sugar. 

Do not blanch the almonds ; put them into a mortar as they are, and pound 
until quite fine ; mix them by degrees with the whites of the eggs ; then add the 
sugar, flour, coffee, and cinnamon ; stir until the whole is well mixed. Then shape 
with the mixture some little rolls, the thickness of a finger, and 2 or 3 inches in 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 841 

length. Place them on a buttered tin ; place half an almond at each end of the 
rolls, and cook in a moderate oven. When done, take them out of the oven, let 
them get cold, then ice them with French icing. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 10 or 12 rolls. 

2,847. GATEAUX AU CHOCOLAT. 

3 eggs. I 4 0Z3. castor sugar. | 3 ozs. flour. | chocolate icing (No. 2,177). | jam or cream. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs into two different basins ; add the 
sugar to the yolks ; cream them together until thick ; beat the whites Yery stiffly ; 
sieve the flour ; stir these into the yolks and sugar togethel* ; mix lightly. Grease 
some small crinkly patty-pans ; fill them half full with the mixture ; put them into 
a moderate oven and bake for about ten minutes. When done, turn them out of 
the tins and let them get cold. Scoop out the centre of each, the top side ; put a 
little whipped cream or jam into the cavity ; place two cakes together. Make some 
chocolate icing and cover the cakes with it ; dish .up, and serve. Instead of choco- 
late icing they could be iced with coffee icing or any other kind of flavour preferred. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 cakes. 

2,848. ALMOND RINGS. 

8 ozs. flour. I 6 ozs. butter. | 5 ozs. sugar. | 1 egg. | 25 almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; add the egg, and beat well for 
about ten minutes ; stir in the flour ; blanch and chop the almonds, and add them 
to the mixture. Mix all well together to a stiff paste ; turn on to a floured board, 
and roll out about \ inch thick. Cut out some rounds with a cutter about 2 inches 
in diameter ; then stamp out the centre of each round with a smaller cutter, so as 
to form rings ; arrange these on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about ten minutes. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,849. BRANDY WAFERS. 
\ lb. treacle. | 4 ozs. butter. | 6 ozs. sugar. | 5 ozs. flour. | J oz. ground ginger. 
Put the butter and treacle into a saucepan and melt them together ; then stir in 
by degrees the flour, sugar, and ginger ; mix all well together. Grease a baking- 
tin ; drop a spoonful of the mixture on it, in the centre, and put in a moderate oven 
to bake for about ten minutes. Continue until all the mixture is used up. Several 
of these can be done at the same time, but on separate tins, as they are liable to 
join up if on the same tin. When baked, they can be rolled up, if liked, or left 
flat. If rolled, it must be done at once, directly they come from the oven, or they 
> will become crisp, and then it will be impossible to roll them. 
Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. 

2,850. GAUFRES A LA VANILLE (VANILLA WAFERS). 

8 ozs. flour. I 3 ozs. sugar. | 3 ozs. butter. | 3 eggs. | 1 gill water. | vanilla essence. 

Put into a basin the flour and sugar ; add the eggs, one at a time ; mix well to 
a smooth batter. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the water ; let it just get 
warm ; then stir it into the batter by degrees ; flavour with vanilla. Take the 
wafer-tongs and heat them over a clear fire ; grease the inside surfaces with a little 
butter ; put in the paste, and close the tongs ; place the iron on the fire, and turn 
constantly, so as to bake both sides a golden colour. When done, unfasten the 
tongs, remove the wafer, and leave it flat, or the wafer can be rolled on a small 
round oiled stick. Continue to cook in this way until the batter is used up. They 
can be eaten hot or cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour to make and bake. 



842 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,851. WALNUT WAFERS. 



2 ozs. butter. 



2 ozs. sugar. 



2 ozs. walnuts. 



2 eggs. 3 ozs. flour. J teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; chop the 
wabauts very finely ; sieve the flour and baking-powder ; stir these ingredients into 
the butter and eggs. Mix thoroughly, and then drop on to a greased baking-tin 
in small spoonfuls, placing them some distance apart, to allow them to spread. 
Put into a quick oven, and bake for five to ten minutes. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. sugar. 



2,852. ORANGE WAFERS. 
2 eggs. 2 oranges, 



4 ozs. flour. 



\ teaspoonful baking-powder. 



Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; add the 
grated rind of the oranges and i gill of orange- juice. Sieve in the flour and baking- 
powder, and when well mixed, put in spoonfuls on a greased baking-tin, placing 
them some distance apart. Bake in a quick oven for about five or ten minutes, 
until the edges turn brown. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,853. MILK WAFERS. 
1 lb. flour. I \ pint milk. | salt. | 2 ozs. butter. | J teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and, when melted, add the milk. Sieve the 
flour and baking-powder into a basin ; add a good pinch of salt, and then stir in the 
hot milk and butter. Make into a dough ; turn on to a floured board ; roll out very 
thinly ; cut into squares ; prick them, and then place on a floured baking-tin, and 
bake in a hot oven until crisp. After they are cold, keep in a tin untU required. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,854. COCOANUT WAFERS. 



4 ozs. butter. 



\ gill milk. 2 eggs. I 1 teaspoonful baking- 

J lb. sugar. 1 lb. flour. 2 ozs. cocoanut. I powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the eggs, one at a time ; 
add the milk and cocoanut. Sieve in the flour and baking-powder ; make into a 
dough ; turn on to the board ; roll out ; cut into rounds ; place on a floured baking- 
tin ; brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle thickly with desiccated cocoanut. 
Put into a hot oven and cook until a pale brown. When done, place on a sieve to 
cool. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,855. GAUFRES PARISIENNES (FRENCH WAFERS). 
8 ozs. flour. I 4 ozs. sugar. | 4 ozs. butter. | 2 lemons. | 3 eggs. 

Put the flour into a basin ; add the butter ; rub it into the flour ; add the sugar ; 
mix well. Stir in the grated rind and strained juice of the lemons ; beat in the eggs, 
one at a time. Mix all together until smooth with a wooden spoon. Roll out ; 
shape them into little cakes. Cook them in the wafer-tongs over a clear fire, as in 
recipe No. 2,850. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,856. ENGLISH MACAROONS. 

i lb. sweet ground almonds. | 3 or 4 whites of eggs. | 13 ozs. castor sugar. | a few whole almonds. 

Put the ground almonds into a basin ; mix to a paste with the whites of the 

eggs ; add by degrees until the right consistency is obtained. It is impossible to 

tell the exact amount of egg, as it depends a good deal on the size of the eggs and 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 843 

the dryness of the almonds. Add the sugar ; mix all together thoroughly ; arrange 
the mixture on wafer-paper in round shapes. Wet the top of each lightly with 
cold water ; blanch and cut the almonds in slices ; put some of these on each 
macaroon ; bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 to 40 minutes. 

2,857. HAZEL-NUT MACAROONS. 
4 ozs. hazel-nut kernels. | 3 whites of eggs. | J lb. castor sugar. 
Put the nuts into a mortar, and pound them to a paste ; add the whites of eggs 
by degrees, then stir in the sugar, and work all together to a smooth paste. Arrange 
them in rounds on wafer-paper, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, about 30 minutes. 



vanilla, 
almond essence. 



2,858. SWISS PASTRY. 

J lb. ground almonds. J lb. glace cherries. water icing (No. 2,176). 

I lb. sugar. yolks of eggs. royal icing (No. 2,178). 

Mix the almonds and sugar together in a basin ; flavour with a few drops of 
almond essence and | teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Make into a stiff paste with 
yolks of eggs. Place on a board that has been sprinkled with icing sugar ; roll out 
about I inch thick. Divide the paste into two equal portions. Put the glace 
cherries in a mortar, and pound until it becomes a paste. Spread the pounded 
cherries on one of the pieces of almond-paste ; cover with the other piece, and 
press them well together. Cut into fingers or any fancy shape ; place on a buttered 
baking-tin, and cook in a cool oven. Leave them on the tin until cold, then lift 
them off. and place on an icing-tray. Have ready some vanilla-flavoured water 
icing ; cover the almond-pastries with this, and leave until the icing is quite firm. 
Then make some royal icing ; put it into a forcing-bag with a tube attached, and 
decorate each cake with a pattern with the royal icing. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 2 hours. 

2,859. MACARONS DE NANCY. 

90 sweet almonds. | 28 bitter almonds. | 1 egg. | 3J ozs. castor sugar. 

Blanch and peel the almonds ; chop them very finely ; put into a basin with the 
sugar and yolk of egg ; whip the white stiffly, and stir into the almond mixture. 
Make into smooth balls ; place on wafer-paper, and bake in a cool oven. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,860. CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

3 ozs. ground almonds. 3 ozs. grated I 3 whites of eggs. 

4 ozs. sugar. chocolate. | 1 oz. ground rice. 

Whisk the whites of eggs very stiffly ; stir in the almonds, sugar, chocolate, and 
rice. Make into small balls ; place them on wafer-paper, some distance apart. 
Bake in a cool oven until the macaroons are crisp. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes 

2,861. COCOANUT MACAROONS. 
3 whites of eggs. 1 oz. ground rice. 1 oz. ground almonds. 



4 ozs. castor sugar. 



vanilla. 



3 ozs. cocoanut. 

Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; stir in the sugar, cocoanut, almonds, 
ground rice, and a few drops of vanilla essence. Make this mixture into small balls ; 
place them on wafer-paper, leaving several inches of space between each one, to 
allow them to spread. Put into a cool oven, and bake until they are crisp. Keep 
in a tin until required, or they will not keep crisp. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



844 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,862. COCOANUT SANDWICHES. 



2 eggs. 4 lb. cocoanut. 

their weight in butter, sugar, jam. 
and flour. ' vanilla. 



1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 
fondant icing (No. 2,174). 
royal icing (No. 2,178). 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Sieve 
the flour and baking-powder ; stir into the butter and eggs, also the cocoanut and 
vanilla. Divide the mixture into equal-sized tins ; bake in a moderate oven for 
about fifteen minutes. Turn out on to a sieve to cool, then spread one cake with 
a layer of jam, and place the other cake on the top. Cover with vanilla-flavoured 
fondant icing, and, when set, cut into fancy shapes with a sharp knife. Decorate 
with royal icing, coloured pink, forced through a bag and pipe in a pretty design. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,863. COFFEE MACAROONS. 

\ lb. ground almonds. | 5 ozs. castor sugar. | coffee essence. | 1 white of egg. 

Mix the almonds and sugar together ; flavour with a little coffee essence ; add 
the white of egg, very stiffly beaten. Make into small balls ; place on wafer-paper^ 
and bake in a cool oven until crisp and a pale brown. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,864. CREAM BUNS. 

J lb. flour. 2 ozs. butter, j 2 yolks of I cream. I vanilla. 

J pint water. 2 eggs. I eggs. ' sugar. | icing sugar. 

Sieve the flour ; put the butter and water together in a saucepan ; place on the 
fire, and, when boiling, stir in the flour very quickly. Cook over the fire until the 
mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean. Remove from the fire, and let it cool 
a Uttle ; then beat in the eggs, one at a time. Turn on to a plate to cool ; shape 
into balls, place on a buttered tin, and bake in not too hot an oven for about three- 
quarters to one hour. This quantity should make ten or twelve buns. Care should 
be taken not to allow them to brown too much ; they should be a pale brown. 
When they are cold, cut a slice off near the top of each, fill the centres with 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. Replace the tops, and 
dredge them with icing sugar. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1| hours. 

2,865. SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

\ lb. flour. I 1 oz. sugar. | salt. | 6 ozs. butter. 

Put the flour, sugar, and a pinch of salt in a basin ; rub in the butter, and then 
knead it with the hand until it becomes a dough. Turn on to a floured board ; roll 
out about \ inch thick ; cut into rounds or squares ; place on a floured tin ; pinch 
them round the edges, and prick the centres with a fork. Put in a moderate oven, 
and cook slowly for about thirty to forty-five minutes. This shortbread is some- 
times ornamented with candied peel or carraway comfits. No water or moistening 
of any kind should be used, or it will not be short. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,866. CARNIVAL WAFERS. 

1 egg. I 1 oz. butter. | 5 ozs. flour. | J gill milk. | sugar. | cinnamon. 

Beat the egg and milk together, melt the butter, and add to the milk. Pour 

this in a basin ; stir in the flour, and beat well ; then mix in some more flour — enough 

to make it into a stiff paste. Turn on to a floured board ; roll out thinly ; cut into 

fancy patterns ; stand them on a floured tin, and leave to dry for three hours. At the 

end of that time, fry in hot fat until a golden colour ; take them out, and toss quickly 

in a mixture of sugar and ground cinnamon, or sugar only, if cinnamon is not liked. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required. 3| hours. 




M 

(J 

a 
O 

o 

c 

O 

-o 

o 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 845 

2,867. GALETTES. 

I lb. flour. I 6 ozs. butter. 1 water. | ^ oz. sugar. | 1 egg. 

Sieve the flour on to the table or a board ; make a well in the centre ; add, by 
degrees, 2 ozs. of warm butter, the sugar, and about 1 gill of cold water. Make 
this into a dough ; put it in a cool place for a quarter of an hour. Then roll out 
into a strip ; place the remaining butter in one piece in the centre ; fold the pastry 
over it. and then roll, fold, and turn it five times, like puff-pastry. Have the 
pastry at the last roll about f inch thick ; cut into rounds with a scalloped cutter. 
Place them on a baking- tin ; brush over with egg ; dust with- sugar, and then mark 
the surface with a knife in diamond patterns. Bake in a moderate oven for about 
thirty minutes. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 2 to 3 hours. 

2,838. FANCY-ICED GENOESE. 

Genoese pastry (No. 2,760). I chocolate fondant icing. crystallized flowers, 

fondant icing (No. 2,174). | angelica. cherries. 

Divide the Genoese pastry into three equal portions. Ice one with white 
fondant icing, one with pink fondant icing, and the last with chocolate. When 
they are firm, cut with a sharp knife into diamond shapes. Decorate each cake 
with flowers made of angelica, cherries, crystallized lilac, violets, or rose-leaves, or 
any other pretty design. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes to ice and decorate. 



2,869. CINNAMON CRULLERS. 



1 oz. butter. 



legg. 



J teaspoonful cinnamon. 



2 ozs. sugar. 
J lb. flour. I gill milk. salt. ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; rub in the butter lightly, and 
add the salt, sugar, and cinnamon. Beat the egg in a basin ; add the milk, and 
then stir into the dry ingredients. Turn on to a floured board, and roll out | inch 
thick, and cut into rings. Fry these in hot fat until a golden brown. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,870. GINGER CRULLERS. 

2 ozs. butter. I 2 ozs. sugar. J gill milk. | J teaspoonful baking- 

^ lb. flour. I 1 egg. J teaspoonful ground ginger. I powder. 

Rub the butter into the flour and baking-powder ; add the sugar and ground 
ginger. Beat the egg in a basin ; add the milk. Stir these into the flour, and 
make into a stiff dough. Turn on to a floured board ; knead a little, and then roll 
out I inch thick ; cut into rounds with a fancy cutter, and fry in very hot fat until 
a golden brown colour. Take up, and drain on paper to remove all fat. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,871. PINEAPPLE SHORT-CAKES. 



4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. sugar. 



I lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful glace pineapple. 

1 yolk of egg. pineapple essence. 



Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the yolk of egg. Cut 
the pineapple into small pieces ; stir it into the butter and sugar ; add the flour 
and a few drops of pineapple essence. Turn on to a floured board, and knead until 
the mixture is smooth. Leave in a cool place for one hour, then roll out rather 
thinly. Cut into small cakes with a round cutter ; place on a floured tin ; bake in 
a moderate oven until a pale brown. Leave the cake on the baking-tin until cold. 

Average cost. 8d. Time required, If hours. 



846 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



4 ozs. butter. 
2 ozs. sugar. 



2,872. PEACH SHORT-CAKE. 

1 bottle preserved peaches or fresh peaches. 



\ lb. flour, 
legg. 



cream. 



Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly ; add the sugar and the 
beaten egg. Make into a dough ; turn on to a floured board, and knead until smooth. 
Roll out into a round shape about ^ inch in thickness ; place on a baking-tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. When cold, split in haK. Cut 
some peaches into small pieces ; place a layer of them on the short-cake ; sprinkle 
with castor sugar ; put the other slice of cake on the top, placing it upside down. 
Cover this again with more peaches and a good sprinkling of castor sugar. Place 
on a dish, and serve with cream. 

Average cost, Is. 6d., without the cream. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,873. LEMON SHORT-CAKE. 

6 ozs. butter. | 6 ozs. sugar. | \ lb. flour. | 2 eggs. | 2 lemons. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub in 4 ozs. of butter lightly ; add 2 ozs. of sugar, 
the grated rind of one lemon, and one egg, well beaten. Sieve in the flour, and 
make into a stiff dough. Turn on to a floured board, and knead until it is quite 
smooth. Roll out about \ inch thick, and then cut into rather smooth rounds with 
a pastry-cutter. Place in a moderate oven, and cook until a pale brown. When 
quite cold, split them in halves. Put 4 ozs of sugar, the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon into a saucepan, with 2 ozs. of butter and one egg, well beaten. Stir 
these over a slow fire until it is the consistency of thick cream. When cooked 
sufficiently, turn into a basin to get cold. Spread the short-cakes with a thick 
layer of this mixture ; place the halves together again, and dust the top of each with 
castor sugar. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 



4 ozs. butter. J lb. flour. 



4 ozs. sugar. 
legg. 



i teaspoonful mixed 
spice. 



2,874. BERLIN CAKES. 

\ teaspoonful ground 



gmger. 
jam. 



J teaspoonful baking-powder, 
water icing (No. 2,176). 
pistachio-nuts. 



Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the egg ; sieve the flour, 
baking-powder, mixed spice, and ground ginger together. Stir into the mixture ; 
make into a stiff dough ; turn out on to a floured board ; roll out rather thinly. Cut 
into rounds, place on a floured baking-tin, and cook in a moderate oven for about 
ten minutes. Put on to a sieve to cool ; then spread the biscuits with jam, and 
put together, like a sandwich. Have ready some vanilla-flavoured water icing ; 
cover the biscuits with this, and, when nearly set, decorate with a few blanched, 
peeled, and chopped pistachio-nuts. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. 

2,875. COOKIES. 

1 lb. flour. I J lb. butter. 1 dessertspoonful cream I almond essence. 

\ lb. sugar. | \ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. or milk. I 3 eggs. 

Sieve the flour and carbonate of soda into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly ; 
dd the sugar and a few drops of almond essence. Beat the eggs in a basin ; add 
the milk or cream to them ; mix into the dry ingredients. The mixture should be 
a soft dough when finished. Turn out on to a floured board ; roll out about \ inch 
thick ; cut into rounds or ovals, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten 
minutes. 

Average cost. Is. Time required. 30 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 847 



2,876. LEMON COOKIES. 



} lb. butter. 
2 lemons. 



1 lb. flour. 
^ lb. sugar. 



3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the yolks of the eggs, the grated 
rind of one lemon and the juice of two. Beat this mixture thoroughly. Sieve the 
flour and baking-powder ; whisk the whites of the eggs stiffly ; stir these into the 
lemon mixture. Add a little more flour if the dough is not stiff enough. Turn 
on to a floured board ; roll out rather thinly, cut into rounds with a pastry-cutter. 
Place on a floured baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,877. COCOANUT COOKIES. 



4 oza. butter. 



1 teaspoonful baking- 



1 egg. I 2 oza. cocoanut. 

1 tablespoonful milk. | ^ lb. flour. 



4 0Z3. sugar. powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, add the egg, and beat thoroughly for five 
minutes. Stir in the cocoanut and milk. Sieve the flour and baking-powder 
together ; mix into the butter and sugar, and make into a stiff dough. Turn out 
on to a floured board ; roll rather thinly, and cut into rounds with a pastry-cutter. 
Sprinkle them with granulated sugar ; place on a floured baking-tin, and cook in 
a quick oven for ten to fifteen minutes. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. 



2,878. GINGER COOKIES. 



J lb. butter. 
J lb. sugar. 
2 eggs. 



^ teaspoonful ground cinnamon 

and nutmeg. 
1 tablespoonful milk. 



1 saltspoonful carbonate of soda. 

i lb. flour. 

1 dessertspoonful ground ginger. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the yolks of the eggs, one 
at a time. Sieve the flour ; mix the ginger, cinnamon, and nutmeg with it ; whisk 
the whites of the eggs very stiffly. Stir these ingredients into the butter and 
sugar. Lastly, add the soda, dissolved in 1 tablespoonful of milk. Turn on to a 
floured board ; knead for a few minutes, and then roll out thinly ; cut into rounds, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,879. FIG COOKIES. 
J lb. butter. [ J lb. sugar. | 2 eggs. | J lb. flour. | 2 ozs. figa. | 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 
Cream the butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs, one at a time. Chop 
the figs finely, and stir into the butter and eggs. Sieve the flour and baking-powder 
together ; mix them into the butter and eggs, adding more flour, if neeessary, to 
make it into a stiff dough. Roll out thinly, cut into rounds, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,880. ABERNETHY BISCUITS. 
1 lb. flour. I 2 ozs. sugar. | ^ gill milk, | 1 oz. butter. | 1 dessertspoonful caraway-seeds. 

Mix the flour, sugar, and caraway - seeds together. Melt the butter ; add the 
milk, and let them warm together over the fixe. Mix this into the flour, adding 
more milk if required. The dough must be stiff. Turn on to a board, and knead 
thoroughly for half an hour, if possible. Roll it out about ^ incn in thickness, 
cut into large rounds, prick them with a fork, and bake in a quick oven until a 
light brown. Remove from the oven, and let them dry in front of the fire. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 1 hour. 
PT. XI. 54 



848 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,881. AMERICAN BISCUITS. 

1 lb. flour. I 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | milk. 

Sieve the flour and a pinch of salt ; rub the butter in lightly, and mix to a dough 

with milk and water. Turn out on to a floured board, and knead thoroughly. Roll 

out thinly, cut into rounds, prick them, and place on a floured baking-tin. Bake 

in a quick oven until crisp. 

Average cost, 3|d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2.882. SODA BISCUITS. 

1 lb. flour. I salt. | 1 tablespoonful milk. 

1 yolk of egg. | 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 1 oz. butter. 

Sieve the flour and salt into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly. Beat the egg in 
a little milk ; stir it into the flour. Dissolve the soda in 1 tablespoonful of milk ; 
pour into the mixture, and add enough milk to make into a stiff dough. Turn on 
to a floured board, knead for a few minutes, and then beat thoroughly with a 
rolling-pin. Roll out very thinly, cut into rounds or squares, and bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2.883. RICE BISCUITS. 

2 ozs. butter. ( 2 ozs. sugar. | 1 egg. | 4 ozs. ground rice. j 1 lemon. 

Cream the butter and sugar together ; add the egg, and beat well. Grate the 
rind of the lemon, stir into the mixture, also the ground rice. Turn on to a floured 
board ; roll out thinly, and cut into fancy shapes. Place on a floured baking-tin, 
and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Put on a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,884. SCOTCH OATCAKES. 
\ pint oatmeal. | ^ gill water. | ^ oz. butter. | salt. 

Put the oatmeal into a basin ; add a little salt ; melt the butter in a saucepan, 
and pour into it \ gill of hot water. Mix enough of this butter and water into the 
oatmeal to make a stiff paste. Turn out on to a board ; roll it out very thinly, 
using oatmeal instead of flour to prevent it sticking ; cut it out in large rounds ; 
cut these across twice, to make into triangles. Rub a girdle or a frying-pan with a 
very little dripping ; put the oatcakes on it, and place over the fire. When they 
are hard, take them up, and put in front of the fire to make them crisp. These oat- 
cakes should always be kept in a tin, or they will lose their crispness. 

Average cost, 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



water. 

2 ozs. butter. 



2.885. WAFER BISCUITS. 

I lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. salt. 

Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin ; add the sugar and salt ; rub 
the butter in lightly ; mix with enough water to make a paste. Flour a board ; 
knead the dough on it for a few minutes, then roll it out very thinly. Cut into 
rounds, and bake for a few minutes. 

Average cost, 2id. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2.886. WATER BISCUITS. 

^ lb. flour. I 1^ ozs. butter. | 1 saltspoonful salt. | water. 
Sieve the flour and salt into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly, and mix with 
enough water to make into a smooth paste. Turn on to a floured board, and knead 
well until smooth. Roll out very thinly, cut into rounds, prick with a fork, and 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 849 

place on a slightly floured baking-tin ; put into the oven, and bake until crisp. These 
biscuits must be rolled very thinly indeed, otherwise they will be tough, and not 
crisp. If not required for immediate use, keep them in a tin. 
Average cost, 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2.887. YORK BISCUITS. 

J lb. flour. I 2 ozs. butter. | ^ gill milk. | I lb. sugar. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar, and make into a dough with the- 
milk, adding a little more if necessary. Roll this mixture out about ^ inch thick 
cut into rounds, prick with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. - 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2.888. WINE BISCUITS. 

^ lb. flour. I J lb. butter. | 1 oz. sugar. | milk. | caraway-seeds. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar, and make into a dough with 
milk. Knead the mixture on a floured board, and then roll out thinly. Place 
them on a baking-tin, prick them with a fork, brush over with water, and sprinkle 
with caraway-seeds. Bake in a quick oven. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,889. SAVOY BISCUITS. 
3 eggs. I J lb. castor sugar. j J lemon. | J lb. flour. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; put the sugar to the yolks, and 
beat with a wooden spoon until creamy. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly , 
sieve the flour, and add both these ingredients to the yolks, also the grated rind of 
half a lemon. Put the mixture into a biscuit-bag, and force the mixture out in 
finger shapes on a piece of thick white paper. The biscuits must all be made exactly 
the same size and shape. Dust them over thickly with castor sugar, and bake in 
a quick oven. When done, remove the fingers from the paper with a knife ; brush 
the under-side of each with a little white of egg, and then place two biscuits 
together. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2.890. DIGESTIVE BISCUITS. 

I lb. flour. I I lb. butter. | J oz. German yeast. | 1 gill water. | 1 gill milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; mix the yeast with a little sugar until liquid ; 
pour on to it the milk and water, which must be just tepid. Mix this into the 
butter and flour, and then put aside in a warm place to rise for about one hour. 
Turn out on to a floured board, and knead thoroughly. Roll out thinly, cut into 
squares, place them on a floured baking-tin, and prick with a fork. Bake in a 
hot oven until a pale brown. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. 

2.891. BRAZILIAN BISCUITS. 

J lb. Brazil-nuts. 6 ozs. castor sugar. I ^ lb. stale sponge I J lb. flour. 

\ oz. ground rice. 3 eggs. cake. ! vanilla. 

Take ^ lb. of Brazil-nuts ; after they have been shelled, blanch them, and put 
in a mortar with the ground rice and the sugar ; pound together until quite fine ; 
rub the sponge cake through a sieve ; mix it into the other ingredients ; add the 
flour ; stir all together until well mixed. Beat the eggs, and add them by degrees 
until a stiff dough is made ; flavour with vanilla. Turn on to a board, roll out 
thin, and cut into biscuits with an oval cutter. Place these on a greased baking- 
sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the winter. 

54—2 



850 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,892. BISCUITS A L'IMPERATRICE (EMPRESS BISCUITS). 



i lb. Brazil -kernels. 

1 oz. ground bitter almonds. 



6 ozs. castor sugar. 
J oz. ground rice. 



vanilla essence, 
whites of eggs. 



Blanch the Brazil-nuts ; put them into a mortar with the almonds and ground 
rice ; pound together until quite fine, then add the sugar ; flavour with a few drops 
of vanilla ; make this into a soft paste with whites of eggs. Well butter some 
patty-pans ; put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, dust 
sugar over them, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. or lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable in the 
winter. 

2,893. SHREWSBURY FINGER BISCUITS. 
\ lb. butter. | J lb. sugar. | \ lb. flour. | 1 egg. | 1 lemon. | J teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the egg ; add the flour 
and baking-powder, sieved together, also the grated rind of the lemon. Mix these 
well together, turn on to a floured board ; knead a little, and then roll out very 




Fig. 231 Shrbwsbdey Fingek Biscuits. 

thinly ; cut into finger shapes ; place on a floured tin, and bake in a moderate oven 
for five or ten minutes. Great care must be taken that these biscuits do not get 
too brown ; they should be a pale yellow colour. When baked, place on a sieve tc 
cool, and then keep in a tin until required. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



I lb. flour. 



2,894. LADY'S FINGER BISCUITS. 
2 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. sugar. | milk. | 



essence of lemon. 



Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar and a few drops of lemon essence 
Mix these to a dough with milk ; put it into a cloth, and let it stand for half an hour 
before using. Then put it on a board, and beat with a rolling-pin until it is per- 
fectly smooth. Fill the mixture into the hollows of a lady's-finger biscuit-tin. 
Bake in a hot oven until a light brown ; remove them from the tin, and dry them 
on a sieve in front of the fire. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required. 1| hours. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 851 

2,895. ROYAL BISCUITS. 

J lb. butter. | J lb. flour. | ^ lb. sugar. | a few caraway-seeds. | J gill milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar and caraway-seeds. Make into a 
dough with the milk. Turn on to a board, and beat thoroughly with a rolling-pin. 
Roll out thinly ; cut into rounds or squares ; place on a floured baking-tin, prick 
with a fork, and bake in a quick oven until a pale brown colour. Put on to a sieve 
to get crisp. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,896. PERKIN BISCUITS. 
I lb. flour. I 1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. J teaspoonful carbonate 



i lb. oatmeal. | J lb. treacle. 



of soda. 



almonds. 

Mix all the dry ingredients together ; melt the butter and treacle in a saucepan 
and stir into the flour, etc. Turn out on to a floured board ; roll out fairly thinly ; 
cut into rounds ; place half a blanched almond on each, and bake for seven to ten 
minutes. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. 

2,897. CINNAMON BISCUITS. 

5 ozs. ground almonds. 1 white of egg. royal icing (No. 2,178). 

6 ozs. sugar. cinnamon. wafer-paper. 

Mix the almonds and sugar together ; add a little cinnamon, and bind with the 
white of the egg. If the egg is large, a little more almond may be required, as the 
paste must be stiff. Roll this out about i inch thick ; cut into fingers ; place them 
in tins on wafer-paper ; spread them witn a thin layer of royal icing, and place 
in a very cool oven until the icing is slightly coloured. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,898. CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. 

5 ozs. ground almonds. 6 ozs. sugar. | wafer-paper. 

1 oz. chocolate. 1 white of egg. i royal icing (No. 2,178). 

Mix the almonds, sugar, grated chocolate, and white of egg together. Roll 
out ^ inch thick ; spread with a thin layer of royal icing. Cut into finger shapes, 
place them on wafer-paper on a tin, and put into a very cool oven until the icing 
becomes slightly coloured. 

Average cost, lid. Time required, 45 minutes. 

2,899. FANCY BISCUITS, 
i lb. flour. I 2 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 1 lemon. | 1 egg. | glac^ cherrieg. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly, then add the sugar and 
the grated rind of one lemon. Beat the egg in a basin, mix into the flour, and 
make into a stiff dough. Turn on to a floured board, knead for a few minutes, 
and then roll out about | inch in thickness. Cut into rounds with a crinkled cutter 
the size of a five-shilling piece. Brush the edges with water ; place two pieces of 
glace cherry at either side of the round, and then pinch the pastrj^ together in the 
middle, so that the cherry shows at each end. Shape half the biscuits in this way ; 
the rest are cut in the same manner, but the cherry is only placed at one side, and 
then the opposite sides are pinched together. Brush the biscuits over with beaten 
egg, place on a floured baking- tin, and cook in a moderate oven until the biscuits 
are crisp. Care should be taken not to cook these biscuits too much : they should 
be a fawn colour when finished. Place them on a sieve to cool, and then keep in a 
tin, if not used immediately. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 



852 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,900. OATMEAL BISCUITS. 

8 ozs. oatmeal. ! 3 ozs. butter, j 1 egg. I \ teaspoonful carbonate of 
2 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. sugar. ! salt. ! soda. 

Put the oatmeal and flour into a basin with a pinch of salt ; rub the butter in 
lightly, and then add the sugar. Beat the egg in a basin ; dissolve the soda in a 
little milk ; add this to the mixture, and enough of the beaten egg to bind. Turn 
out on to a floured board ; roll out thinly and cut into rounds with a pastry-cutter. 
Lay them on a greased tin, prick them with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about fifteen minutes. They should be crisp, and a pale brown colour. Put 
them on to a sieve to cool. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 18 to 20 biscuits. 

2,901. GINGER SNAPS. 

J lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. 

1 oz. sugar. \ lb. golden syrup. \ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Sieve the flour and ginger into a basin ; add the sugar. Melt the butter and 
syrup together in a saucepan ; stir them into the dry ingredients ; lastly, add the 
soda, dissolved in a little milk ; add some more milk if necessary. Roll out, cut 
into rounds, and bake in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for 24 to 30 biscuits. 

2,902. ARROWROOT BISCUITS. 

J lb. arrowroot. | J lb. flour. | 2 ozs. sugar. | 2 ozs. butter. | milk or cream. 

Sieve the arrowroot and flour into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly ; add the 
sugar, and mix with enough milk or cream to make into a dough. Turn on to a 
floured board, roll out very thinly, prick all over with a fork, and cut out in rounds 
or squares. Place on a floured tin, and bake in rather a slow oven until a light brown. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. 





2,903. OLIVER BISCUITS. 




1 lb. flour. 

2 ozs. butter. 


salt. 

^ gill milk. 


\ teaspoonful 
sugar. 


1 oz. yeast. 
J gill water 



Sieve the flour and salt into a basin ; rub the butter in lightly. Cream the yeast 
and sugar until liquid ; warm the milk and water until tepid ; pour it on to the 
yeast. Make a well in the flour, pour in the yeast, and put to rise for twenty 
minutes. After that, mix it in thoroughly, adding more warm milk if necessary, 
and put to rise again for one and a half hours. Turn out, knead well, roll it rather 
thinly, cut into rounds, and place them on a floured tin. Prick them with a fork, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 21 hours. 

2,904. GERMAN BISCUITS. 
J lb. butter. 1 egg. 1 lemon. 

J lb. sugar. 6 ozs. flour. ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until soft ; beat in the yolk of the egg ; 
add the grated rind of one lemon. Sieve the flour and baking-powder together ; 
whisk the white of the egg very stiffly. Stir these ingredients into the butter and 
sugar. Make into a stiff dough, turn on to a floured board, and roll out about 
\ inch thick. Cut into fancy shapes, either rounds, squares, or ovals. Place them 
on a floured baking-tin ; brush each biscuit over with beaten egg ; put into a moderate 
oven, and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, remove from the tin, and 
place on a sieve to cool. Keep in a tin until required. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 45 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC, 853 

VIENNESE SWEETS 

2,905. DATE TART. 

I lb. almonds. ^ lb. dates. ! J oz. butter. 

I lb. castor sugar. | 10 whites of eggs. breadcrumbs. 

Chop the almonds finely ; cut the dates into small pieces. Whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir in the sugar, almonds, and dates lightly. Butter 
a shallow pie-dish ; strew over a few crumbs ; pour in the mixture, and bake in a 
^low oven for about half an hour. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 

• 2,906. ALMOND TART. 
I lb. almonds. | J lb. castor sugar. | 5 eggs. | lemon-juice. | jam. 
Chop the almonds finely ; put them into a basin, add the castor sugar, and the 
juice of half a lemon ; add to this two whole eggs and three yolks ; stir these ingre- 
dients all well together for ten to fifteen minutes ; beat the remaining two whites of 
eggs very stiffly, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Butter a pie-dish, 
sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and bake slowly for thirty to forty minutes. As soon 
as it is cooked turn it out, and, when cold, cut in two parts and fill with jam. 
Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



I lb. flour. 1 yolk. 

J lb. butter. J lb. curds. 



5 eggs- ! i lb. sugar. 

Ih ozs. flour. 1 2 0Z3. raisins. 



2,907. CURD TART (No. 1). 

lemon- 
juice. 

Make a paste with ^ lb. of flour, the yolk of egg, a squeeze of lemon-juice and 
water. Wash the butter in cold water, dry it, and sprinkle with flour. Roll out 
the paste, place the butter in the centre, fold over, roll with a roller, fold, and roll 
again ; do this five or six times, then put aside in a cool place for a quarter of an 
hour. Line a plate with this pastry, prick the bottom with a fork, and put in some 
rice or crusts of bread to keep the paste in shape. Bake in a fairly hot oven. 
Break up the curds with a fork ; add sugar to taste ; beat in two eggs, a small piece 
of butter, and the stoned raisins. When the pastry is cooked, let it get cold ; 
then spread it with the curd mixture. Beat three yolks of eggs, with 1^ ozs. of 
sugar and 1^ ozs. of flour. Whip the whites to a stiff froth ; stir them into the yolks ; 
cover the pie with this mixture, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 

Average cost. Is. 3d, Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,908. CURD TART (No. 2). 

2 ozs. butter. | 2 ozs. castor sugar. | 3 whites of eggs. | 2 ozs. curds. | 2 ozs. almonds. 

Blanch the almonds, peel and chop them finely ; break up the curds. Whip 
the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; add the melted butter, almonds, sugar, and 
curds. Stir lightly. Butter a pie-dish, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, pour in the 
ftiixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,909. NAPOLEON TART. 

f lb. butter. I J lb. castor j 1 oz. breadcrumbs. 2 whites of eggs. 

4 eggs. ! sugar. \ J oz. chocolate. i 3 ozs. castor sugar. 

Put the chocolate into the oven to soften it. Cream the butter and sugar 
together ; add the yolks of four eggs, beating them in well ; add the chocolate and 
the crumbs ; mix thoroughly. Whip the whites stiffly, and mix in lightly. Well 
butter two moulds, sprinkle crumbs over, pour in the mixture, and bake in a hot 



854 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

oven. When done, turn out. and let cool. Whip the two whites of eggs stiffly ; 
Btir in the 3 ozs. of castor sugar ; put this mixture on one of the baked rounds, 
place the other on the top, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,910. MACAROON TART. 
7 whites of eggs. | 13 ozs. almonds. | 19 ozs. castor sugar. | a little flour. 

Chop the almonds finely ; whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; stir in the 
almonds, sugar, and a little flour. Line a mould with paper ; pour in the mixture 
bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

Average cost, Is. lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,911. FROTH TART. 

6J ozs. butter. | 8J ozs. flour. | 5 ozs. castor sugar. | 3 whites of eggs. | 3 tablespoonfuls jam. 

Make a paste with the flour, butter, and 2 ozs. of castor sugar ; mix until of the 
consistency of shortbread. Divide this paste into four equal parts ; roll them out 
to the same size and shape. Bake them in a slow oven for about half an hour. 
Let them get cold. Whip stiffly three whites of eggs ; mix into it the jam and 
3 ozs. of sugar. Spread this mixture on the rounds of pastry ; put them on the 
top of each other. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



8 eggs. 

4J ozs. castor sugar. 



2,912. BROWN-BREAD TART. 

4J ozs. almonds. 4|- ozs. brown 1 gill red wine 



bread. 



omnamon. 



lemon. 

Chop the almonds finely, without peeling them ; break the eggs ; put the yolks 
into a basin. Mix in the castor sugar and the chopped almonds ; stir well together. 
Pass the bread through a sieve, put it into a basin, and pour over the wine ; let it 
soak for some time ; then add to the yolks, sugar, and almonds ; flavour with a 
pinch of ground cinnamon and the rind of a lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs 
stiffly, and stir into the rest of the ingredients. Turn this mixture into a mould, 
and bake it in a moderate oven. When cold, glaze it. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2,913. GISELA TART. 



4 eggs. 



J oz. candied lemon- 2\ ozs. castor sugar. 
I oz. chocolate. peel. 2J ozs. almonds. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; put them into a basin, add the 
Bugar, and stir together for ten minutes until creamy. Grate the chocolate ; chop 
the almonds and the lemon-peel ; add these to the yolks of eggs and sugar ; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir in lightly. Pour this mixture into a well- 
buttered mould, and bake slowly. Glaze when cold. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,914. GLAZE FOR ABOVE TARTS. 
6J ozs. castor sugar. | juice and rind of 1 orange or lemon. 
IStir these in a basin together for half an hour. 

2,915. NUT TART. 
7 ozs. hazel-nuts. | 7 ozs. castor sugar. | 4 whites of eggs. 
Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; chop the nuts very finely, add 
these and the sugar to the whites, stir lightly together, and bake in a slow oven. 
Average cost. 7d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 855 

2,916. CREAM TART. 

4J ozs. butter. I 2 ozs. almonds. 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. I 3 whites of eggs. 

4^ ozs. flour. ' 4 ozs. castor sugar. lemon-rind. | a little jam. 

Put the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter ; chop the blanched almonds finely ; 
add these, the two hard-boiled yolks rubbed through a sieve, 2 ozs. of sugar and 
a little grated lemon-rind ; make these ingredients into a paste ; bake this paste in 
a round shape. When cooked, let it get cold, then spread with jam. Whip three 
whites of eggs very stiffly ; add 2 ozs. of sugar and a little jam ; put this on the 
tart, and put back into the oven for a few minutes. 

Average cost, Is. 2d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,917. A TENDER TART. 



4J 0Z3. butter. 



2 eggs. I vanilla. I 1 yolk. 

4J OZS. sugar. lemon-rind. 1 4^ ozs. hazel-nuts. | 4J ozs. flour. 

]\Iake a paste with the flour, butter, one yolk, and a little water ; knead it 
lightly. Divide into two parts ; butter a Yorkshire tin, line with the paste. Cream 
two eggs and the castor sugar together for ten minutes ; mix into it a little lemon- 
rind, vanilla, and the hazel-nuts ; fill the pastry with this mixture ; put the rest 
of the paste on the top, and bake for half an hour. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persona. 

2,918. SAPPHO TART. 

3 whites of eggs. 2 ozs. hazel-nuts. 1 J oz. candied lemon-peel. 

2 ozs. castor sugar. 1 oz. candied orange-peel. ( rind of ^ lemon. 

Pound the nuts ; cut up the orange and lemon-peel into small pieces. Beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; mix in the sugar, the pounded nuts, the orange- 
and lemon-peels, and the grated rind of half a lemon ; mix all well together. Put 
the mixture into a shallow pie-dish, and bake in a slow oven. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufflcient for 3 or 4 persons. 



4 ozs. butter. 
4 ozs. flour. 



4 ozs. almonds, 
pinch of cinnamon. 



2 ozs. castor sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls brandy. 



2,919. LITTLE BRANDY RINGS. 

lemon-rind. 
1 yolk of egg. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; blanch and chop the almonds ; add these to 
the butter and flour, also the sugar, cinnamon, and a little grated lemon-rind ; 
mix in the yolk of the egg and the brandy ; make into a paste. Turn this mixture 
on to a floured board, roll it out thinly, and cut into rings with a round cutter ; 
place them on a baking-sheet, brush them over with brandy, and sprinkle with 
castor sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for nearly | lb. 
of biscuits. 



5 ozs. butter. 
5 ozs. castor 
sugar. 



2,920. FRUIT TART. 

4 yolks. I li ozs. glace 

^ pint milk. cherries. 

IJ ozs. pineapple. I 3 ozs. almonds. 



soft biscuits, 
whipped cream, 
pistachio-nuts. 



Cream the butter and sugar together ; add the milk and yolks, first made into 
a custard, the pineapple and cherries cut in smaU pieces, and the almonds peeled 
and chopped. Line a pie-dish with soft biscuits or sponge cake, add half the 
mixture, then some biscuits, and then the rest of the mixture, and over that more 
biscuits. Put it into a cold place for twenty-four hours. When about to serve, 
cover with whipped cream, and sprinkle with pistachio-nuta. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 24 hours. 



856 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,921. CHOCOLATE ROLLS. 

2 ozs. butter. f 2| ozs. chocolate. | 1^ ozs. flour. | \ egg. | 2i ozs. castor sugar. 

Cream the butter ; grate the chocolate ; add the sugar to the butter ; beat the 
egg ; stir in the flour and chocolate ; mix all together into a paste. Make this 
mixture into little rolls ; brush them over with sugar dissolved in a little water. 
Place them on a well-buttered baking- tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 18 small rolls. 



2,922. CHESTNUT ROLLS. 



4 ozs. flour. 
2J ozs. butter. 
\ oz. castor sugar. 



^egg. 

IJ tablespoonfuls cream. 

salt. 



^ lb. chestnuts. 

3 ozs. vanilla sugar. 

^ teaspoonful rum. 



Cream the butter ; add the sugar, egg, cream, a pinch of salt, and the flour ; 
mix into a paste, and put it into a cool place for one hour. Boil the chestnuts ; peel 
and rub them through a sieve ; add the vanilla, sugar, and the rum. Roll out the 
paste cut into rounds ; place a small piece of the chestnut mixture in the centre ; 
make up into little rolls ; place these on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, October to February. 



2,923. CHOCOLATE PASTRY. 



4 ozs. butter. 



1 oz. grated choco- 
late. 



4 ozs. flour. I 4 ozs. almonds. 
4 ozs. sugar. 2 yolks. | pinch of cinnamon. 

Make a paste with the butter, sugar, flour, and egg-yolks ; stir in the chopped 
almonds, grated chocolate, and cinnamon. Turn on to a board, roll out, and cut 
into shapes. Place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,924. GINGERBREAD. 
1 pint white honey. | 6 ozs. flour. | cinnamon. | clove. | almonds. 
Boil the honey, and remove the froth from it as it rises. When cold, make a 
paste with the flour and honey ; flavour with a pinch of ground cinnamon and 
clove. Roll it out, cut it into squares, and on every square place in the centre 
half an almond. Place these on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. 



2,925. LITTLE GINGERBREAD CAKES. 
IJ ozs. butter. I ^ oz. almonds. ^ oz. ground cinnamon and J lemon. 
4 ozs. sugar. I 1 egg. cloves. 4 ozs. flour. 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar ; stir in the egg ; beat well ; then add the spice, 
chopped almonds, the grated rind of the lemon, and the juice ; stir in the flour, and 
mix into a paste. Turn on to a board, roll it out, and cut it into squares ; put 
them on to a buttered baking-sheet ; brush over with beaten egg, and place half a 
olanched almond in the centre of each square. Bake slowly. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



2,926. LITTLE BROWN CAKES. 



cinnamon and 
cloves. 



J lb. butter. 2 ozs. almonds. 1 yolk. 

2 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. castor sugar. ^ lemon. 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar, beat in the yolk, and stir for ten minutes. 
Then add the grated rind of half a lemon, a pinch of ground cinnamon, and cloves 
and the flour ; stir again. Turn on to a floured board, roll it out as thick as a five- 
shilling piece, cut it into little squares, put them on a greased baking-sheet, brush 
them over with cold water, and sprinkle with castor sugar. Bake in a slow oven. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 857 



2,927. LITTLE SPICE CAKES. 

4| OZ3. almonds. I pinch of cinnamon and I 1 nutmeg. 

3 ozs. castor sugar. ' cloves. lemon-rind. 



4J ozs. flour. 
3 yolks. 



Make a paste with the pounded almonds and sugar ; add the spice, the grated 
rind of half a lemon, three yolks, and the flour. Beat it well, and put it in a cool 
place for one hour. Roll it out as thick as two straws, cut into shapes, and bake 
on a floured tin. When cold, cover with icing. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 2 hours. 



4 eggs. 

4 ozs. castor sugar. 



1 oz. hazel-nuts, 
vanilla. 



2,928. CHESTNUT TART. 

6 ozs. chestnuts, 
whipped cream. 

Stir the sugar and yolks of the eggs together for ten minutes ; have ready the 
chestnuts cooked and chopped ; stir these, the hazel-nuts, and vanilla into the 
yolks and sugar ; beat the whites of the eggs very stiffly ; stir them lightly into 
the mixture. Pour into a buttered mould, and bake for half an hour. Let it get 
cold, then cover with whipped cream. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufiicient for 6 persons. 



2,929. ORANGE TART. 



4J ozs. castor 5 eggs. | 2 tablespoonfuls rum. 

sugar. 



2 rolls. I 1 yolk. 

2 ozs. butter. I 1 oz. chocolate. 



2 oranges. I 2 ozs. almonds. 

Put the yolks and sugar into a basin ; stir them together ; then add the juice 
and rind of the oranges ; remove the crust from the two rolls ; rub the crumb 
through a sieve ; add this and the rum to the eggs and sugar. Blanch and chop 
the almonds ; stir these in, and if the mixture seems too thin, add a few more 
breadcrumbs ; whip the whites of the eggs, and stir in lightly, turn into a well- 
buttered pie-dish, and bake slowly for one hour. Turn it out when done, and let 
it get cold, then cut it across, and fill with the following : Mix the 2 ozs. of butter, 
one yolk of egg, the chocolate (first softened in the oven), and sugar to taste ; stir 
well together, and use as directed. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, li hours. Sufflcient for 6 persons. 

2,930. SEMOLINA TART. 
4 ozs. sugar. | 2 ozs. almonds. | 1 lemon. | 4 eggs. | 3 ozs. semolina. | jam. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin with the sugar ; stir together for ten 
minutes, then add the chopped almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the 
juice of the whole lemon ; mix well, then stir in the semolina and the whites of the 
eggs stiffly beaten ; mix all well together. Pour the mixture in a well-buttered 
mould and bake it. When cold, cut the tart in halves, and fill with jam. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1^ hours. Sufflcient for 6 persons. 



1 lb. chestnuts. 
1 oz. chocolate. 



sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cream. 



whipped cream, 
vanilla. 



2,931. CHESTNUT VERMICELLI. 

2 hard-boiled 
yolks. 

Boil the chestnuts until soft enough to shell ; peel and press them through a wire 
sieve ; soften the chocolate in the oven ; pass this also through the sieve ; mix with 
the chestnuts ; add the sieved yolks of eggs and sugar to taste. Press this mixture, 
after being thoroughly mixed, through a wire sieve straight on to the dish on which 
it is to be served, making a border with it round the dish. Whip some cream, 
sweeten and flavour to taste, and fill the centre of the dish with it. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufflcient for 7 or 8 persons. 



858 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,932. HUMBOLDT TART. 



4 eggs. 

2 ozs. almonds. 



2 ozs. sugar. 
2 ozs. chocolate. 



jam. 

chocolate icing (No. 2,177). 



Put the yolks of the eggs and the sugar into a basin and beat to a cream ; add 
the chocolate, which should be first softened in the oven ; blanch and chop the 
almonds ; stir them into the eggs. Whip the four whites of eggs very stifiSy. and 
mix them in lightly. Pour this mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in 
a moderate oven. Turn out when cooked, and let it cool ; then spread with jam 
and cover with chocolate icing. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persona 

2,933. HUSARENKRAPPEN (LITTLE FRITTERS). 
1 J ozs. butter. | 1 oz. castor sugar. | 1 yolk of egg. | 3 ozs. flour. 
Make a paste with these ingredients. Roll them into little rolls, put them on 
a baking-sheet, and make a hole in each with the end of a spoon. Brush over with 
the white of an egg, and bake slowly. When baked, fill each hole with jam. 
Average cost, 4d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 8 or 9 rolls. 

2,934. SMALL BISCUITS. 

2 eggs. I J lb. castor sugar. | 6 ozs. flour. | raisins. 

Break the eggs into a basin ; add the sugar to them, and stir well together for 
about ten minutes ; then add the flour, and stir again for five or six minutes. Butter 
a baking-sheet, and put the mixture on it in small heaps — a teaspoonful in each 
heap. In the centre of each biscuit place a raisin ; put them in a warm place for 
one hour, then bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, \\ hours. Sufficient for about 30 biscuits. 



2,935. HONEY BISCUITS. 



\ lb. flour. 2 ozs. castor sugar. 



legg. 



IJ tablespoonfuls honey. 



f oz. almonds. pinch of carbonate of 

soda. 



^ oz. candied lemon -peel. 

Put the flour into a basin ; add to it the sugar, chopped almonds, egg, honey, 
and the lemon-peel chopped small ; beat all well together ; lastly, add the carbonate 
of soda. Turn it out on to a floured board ; roll it out thinly, about the thickness 
of the back of a knife ; cut it out with a round cutter. Arrange these on a greased 
baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for nearly f lb. of 
biscuits. 

2,936. WALNUT BISCUITS. 
4 whites of eggs. | 7 ozs. castor sugar. | 4 ozs. peeled walnuts. 

Chop the walnuts ; place the whites of the eggs in a basin with the sugar ; stand 
this in a pan containing a little hot water ; whip on the fire until it becomes a stiff 
froth, then remove it from the fire. Continue to whip until it is lukewarm. Add 
the walnuts ; stir hghtly together ; make with this mixture little heaps on a greased 
baking- sheet with a teaspoon. Bake very carefully in a slow oven. Almonds can 
be used instead of walnuts. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
December. 

2,937. DATE BUSSERLN. 

1 white of egg. | 4 ozs. castor sugar. | 4 ozs. almonds. | 4 ozs. dates. | lomon-juioe. 

Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth ; stir in the sugar, and mix until thick. 
Cut the dates into very small pieces ; add these and the ground almonds and a few 
drops of lemon-juice. Put little heaps on a baking-sheet, and bake in a verv slow oven. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 40 minutes. 



BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 859 

2.938. VIENNA BISCUITS (1). 

3 ozs. peeled hazel-nuts. 6 oza. castor sugar. juice and rind of J lemon. 

3 ozs. almonds. 2 whites of eggs. glace royale (No. 2,178). 

Chop the hazel-nuts and almonds finely ; put them into a basin ; add the sugar, 
the grated lemon-rind, the juice, and the whites of the eggs ; mix these all together 
into a paste. Turn out, and roll it ; cut into strips as large as a finger ; ice them 
with glace royale. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2.939. VIENNA BISCUITS (2). " 

4 ozs. almonds. | 1 white of egg. | 8 ozs. castor sugar. | ^ lemon. | glace royale (No. 2,178). 

Mix together 4 ozs. of ground almonds and the sugar ; add the juice and rind 
of half a lemon ; mix with one white of egg. Roll it out and cut into lengths the size 
of a finger. Sprinkle a baking-sheet with flour ; put the biscuits on it, and bake 
in a slow oven. Remove from the baking-tin when cold, ice them, and put a strip 
of candied lemon-peel in the centre of each. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 30 minutes. 

2,940. CHOCOLATE BUSSERLN. 

2 ozs. castor sugar, j 1 oz. chocolate. 

1 white of egg. | 3 ozs. ground almonds. 

Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth ; add the sugar and lemon-juice ; stir 
together until thick. Add the chocolate (grated) and the almonds. Make with 
this little squares as large as a nut ; put them on a baking-sheet ; brush over with 
the white of an egg and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. 



few drops of lemon- 
juice. 



CHAPTER XXXI 

SAVOURIES 

2,941. CROOTES DE ROGNONS (KIDNEY TOASTS). 



Parmesan cheese. I salt. 

cayenne. | buttered toast. 



2 mutton kidneys. i 1 dessertspoonful chopped 
^ lemon -rind. I parsley. 

Skin the kidneys ; take away the muscle ; chop into small pieces ; put these into a 
mortar ; add the grated rind of the lemon, chopped parsley, cayenne, and salt ; 
pound these ingredients all well together. Butter some toast, spread the mixture 
over it, cut it into finger lengths, arrange on a baking-sheet, and put them in the 
oven for ten minutes. Sprinkle with the cheese and a tiny dust of cayenne ; return 
to the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 fingers. 



•J3" 



2,942. CROOTES D'EPICURE (EPICURE'S TOAST). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. I bread. seasoning. 

i oz. butter. cod's-roe paste. 1 teaspoonful cream. 

Cut a slice or two of bread ; stamp this out with a small round cutter ; fry 
them in butter until they are crisp and a golden colour. Spread over these a layer 
of cod's-roe paste. Cut the eggs in halves ; take out the yolks carefully, without 
breaking the whites. Put the yolks into a mortar, add the ^ oz. of butter and the 
cream ; season to taste with salt and a pinch of cayenne. Spread a layer of this 
mixture over the cod's-roe ; place the croutos on a baking-sheet and put them into 
the oven to get hot. Cut the whites of the eggs into rings ; put them in hot water 
to keep warm ; put one of these on each croute when they come out of the oven 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 

2,943. CROOTES AU FROMAGE (CHEESE CROUTES). 
3 ozs. Parmesan cheese. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 oz. Cheddar cheese. | salt. | cayenne. | bread. 
Cut a slice of bread about ^ inch thick ; stamp this out with a round cutter, 
1 1 to 2 inches in diameter ; fry in hot fat or butter until a golden colour. Grate the 
cheese ; melt the butter, and stir it into the cheese ; mix well together ; season 
with a pinch of salt and cayenne. Put this mixture on to the croutes of fried bread 
in a thick layer, sprinkle with a little grated cheese, and put in the oven for a few 
minutes to get hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 croutes. 

2,944. OLIVE AND CAPER CANAPES. 

stale bread. | 6 anchovies. | 6 olives. | 1 teaspoonful capers. | parsley. 

Cut the bread in slices about | inch thick ; stamp out six rounds with a cutter, 
1| inches in diameter ; fry these a golden colour in hot fat or butter ; drain on a 
piece of paper. Wash, scrape, and bone the anchovies, chop them finely, and rub 
through a wire sieve ; spread this puree on the croutes of fried bread. Stone and 

860 



SAVOURIES 861 

chop the olives ; chop the capers, and mix them with the olives. Sprinkle the 
chopped ingredients thickly over the croutes of bread that have been covered with 
the anchovy puree. Place the canapes on a baking-sheet, and put them into the 
oven for ten minutes. Arrange a dish-paper on a hot dish, place the canapes on / 
it, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. This savoury can also be served 
cold. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Suffi- 
cient for 6 persons. 

2,945. CANAPES A LA DUXELLE. 

half a calf's brain. I cayenne. ^ gill white sauce. . 6 croutes bread. 

1 oz. ham. 1 ^ oz. breadcrumbs. salt. J oz. Parmesan cheese. 

Gut out of some slices of stale bread six rounds about I inch thick and 1| inches 
in diameter ; fry these a golden brown in very hot fat or butter ; drain on a piece 
of paper. Wash the brains in salt and water, then boil them ; when done, take up, 
drain, and chop finely ; chop the ham, grate the cheese ; put the brains, ham, a 
pinch of salt and cayenne into a basin ; add the breadcrumbs and half the cheese ; 
mix aU well together, add the sauce, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Spread 
this on the fried croutes of bread ; sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese ; cover 
with breadcrumbs ; put a tiny bit of butter on each, and place in a hot oven for 
about ten minutes until quite hot and brown. Serve quickly. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,946. CANAPES DE CR^ME DE FROMAGE. 



8 croutes bread. 1 oz. butter. 



dessertspoonful 
sherry. 



cayenne. 
I lb. Cheshire cheese. | salt. 1 teaspoonful made mustard. 

Cut the croutes of bread out of slices of stale bread with a round cutter 2 inche? 
across (or toast can be used). Fry the bread a golden colour in hot fat or butter. 
Cut up the cheese ; put it into a mortar with the butter, and pound until it becomes 
a smooth paste ; then season with salt and cayenne ; add the made mustard and 
the sherry. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, put it on the croutes 
of bread ; place them in the oven until hot through, then serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



2,947. DUXELLES A L'INDIENNE. 



1 calf's brain. 
1 shallot. 



^ gill stock. 

I gill cream. 

short pastry (No. 2,183). 



1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful curry-powder. 

J oz. flour. salt. 

1 slice apple. I cayenne. ^ teaspoonful lemon-juice. 

Roll out the pastry, and line ten small bouche-moulds with it ; prick the bottom 
of each with a fork ; fill with rice and bake them for ten minutes, or until a pale 
colour. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; chop the shallot finely, and as soon 
as the butter is hot put in the shallot and fry a little ; mix the flour and curry-powder 
together ; add them to the shiUot, and fry minute ; then add the ^ gill of stock 
and the chopped apple ; stir over the fije until the sauce thickens ; simmer for a 
few minutes ; then add the cream, lemon-juice, and seasoning. Have ready the 
calf's brain, which should be prepared as follows : Wash and soak the brain in 
salted water fo • one hour, then dra n ; put the brain into a stewpan, cover with 
stock, and boil for fifteen minutes ; take up, drain well, and let cool. Cut the brain 
in nice pieces, the shape of the bouche-tins, only a size smaller. As soon as the 
pastry-cases are cooked, turn out the rice carefully, and fill them with the prepared 
mixture ; put on the top of each case one of the rounds of calf's brains. Put 
them on a baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven 
to get hot. Serve at once. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minustes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 10 persons. 



862 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,948. PETITS SOUFFLES DE MERLOCHE FUMfi (LITTLE SOUFFLfiS OF 

DRIED HADDOCK). 



2 ozs. dried haddook. 
1 oz. butter. 



^ oz. flour. 
\ gill milk. 



2 eggs, 
eayenne. 



\ oz. Parmesan cheese, 
brown breadcrumbs. 



Cook a small dried haddock. When done, remove skin and bones, and chop 
the flesh ; take 2 ozs. of this ; melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour ; add 
the milk, and boil until thick ; take the pan ofiE the fire, and let cool ; then beat in 
the yolks, one at a time ; season with a pinch of cayenne ; stir in the fish ; beat the 
whites of the eggs very stiffly, and stir in lightly. Fill some small ramequin-casea 
three parts full with the mixture. Put them in the oven, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, dish up on a folded napkin or fancy 
paper arranged on a dish ; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,949. COLD SOUFFLES OF HADDOCK. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
1 gill aspic jelly. 



6 ozs. dried haddock. I 1 gill white sauce. salt. 

1 gill cream. | ^ oz. gelatine. cayenne. 

Cook the haddock ; let it get cold, then remove bones and skin, and chop the 
flesh finely ; weigh it, and take 6 ozs. Put the fish in a basin ; stir in the white 
sauce ; season with salt and cayenne ; whip the cream, and mix it into the other^ 
ingredients. Melt the gelatine in a little water in a stewpan over the fire ; strain 
it to the mixture. Fill some small ramequin-cases with this preparation, nearly to 
the top ; let them set, then decorate the top of each with a slice of hard-boiled egg ; 
run a layer of liquid aspic jelly over each ; put on ice until firm. Serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



2 0Z3. dried haddock. 
^ oz. butter. 
1 shallot. 

Cook the haddock 



1 teaspoonful curry- 
powder. 
1 tomato. 



croutes of bread. 
1 tablespoonful 
cream. 



2,950. CANAPES A L'INDIENNE. 

salt. 

cayenne. 

chopped parsley. 

take away bone and skin, and chop finely 2 ozs. of the 
meat. Chop the shallot ; melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the shallot, and 
fry a golden colour ; then add the currj'^-powder. Stir over the fire for a few seconds ; 
then add the fish ; mix well, and stir in the cream. Have ready fried some round 
croutes of bread ; put on each a slice of cooked tomato ; put some of the curry 
mixture on each, piling it up lightly. Put them into the oven for a few minutes 
to make them thoroughly hot. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



1 tablespoonful cream. 

a few drops of anchovy essence. 

cayenne. 



2,951. CROOTES a la LORRAINE. 

2 ozs. dried haddock. 6 croutes of bread. 

2 tomatoes. 6 half-walnuts, 

chopped parsley. ^ oz. butter. 

Chop the fish finely ; melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the fish ; mix well ; 
add the cream and anchovy essence ; make very hot. Fry the croutes of bread ; 
cut the tomatoes in slices, not too thin ; cook them in the oven on a buttered 
baking-sheet, taking care not to let them get too much done. Place a slice of 
tomato on each croute ; on that arrange a rather thick layer of the haddock mixture. 
On the top of each place a half -walnut. Put the croutes on a baking-sheet, and 
put in the oven to get very hot. Before sending to table, sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley over each, and serve. 

Average cost, 6d. or 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



SAVOURIES 863 

2,952. BENGAL CANAPfiS. 
4 ozs. ham. | 1 gill cream. | chutney. | 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. | cayenne. I croiites of bread. 
Cut up the ham ; put it into a mortar and pound it well ; then mix in the cream. 
Cut out some bread in rounds about 1 1 inches in diameter ; fry these a golden colour 
in hot fat. Let them get cold, then spread a layer of the above mixture thickly 
on each ; over that put a thin layer of chutney ; sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese, and then with a very light dust of cayenne. Put these into a hot oven to 
brown the cheese. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,953. BEIGNETS DE LAITANCES DE HARENGS (FRITTERS OF HERRING- 
ROES). 

3 herring-roes. lemon-juice. I frying-batter. I parsley. 

1 oz. butter. 6 thin slices bacon. | 2 tomatoes. | toast. 

Obtain soft herring-roes ; cut each in half. Melt the butter in a small frying- 
pan ; when hot, put in the roes, and fry them lightly ; sprinkle them with lemon- 
juice and cayenne, and roll each in a very thin slice of bacon. Make some frying- 
batter, and have ready some frying-fat. Dip each prepared roe in the batter ; 
drop into the boiling fat, and fry a golden colour. Take up and drain. Cut each 
tomato in three slices, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and cook them in 
the oven (not too much). Make some toast, cut it in rounds the size of the tomato, 
and butter it lightly ; place a slice of tomato on each, and on that one of the beignets. 
Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,954. LAITANCES DE HARENGS AUX CHAMPIGNONS (HERRING-ROES AND 

MUSHROOMS). 

3 herring-roes. | IJ ozs. butter. | cayenne. | 6 large mushrooms. | buttered toast. | salt. 

Divide each herring-roe into two pieces ; melt half the butter in a small frying- 
pan ; put in the roes, and fry them lightly ; season with salt and cayenne. When 
done, lift out of the fat, and keep hot. Put the remainder of the butter into the 
frying-pan ; put in the mushrooms, and fry them until done ; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Have ready some slices of toast ; cut it out in rounds the size of the 
mushrooms ; butter these rounds, and place a herring-roe on each, and on the top 
one fried mushroom. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,955. CROOTES DE LAITANCES DE HARENGS (CROOtES OF HERRING- 
ROES). 



3 bloater-roes (soft). I mayonnaise sauce. 
6 croutes fried bread. I mustard. 



paprika pepper, 
lemon-juice. 

Put the roes into boiling water containing a squeeze of lemon-juice ; draw the 
pan to the side of the fire as soon as the roes have been put in, and do not let 
it boil again. Allow them to get cold in the water ; then lift them out carefully ; 
drain well, and cut each in half. Place one on each croute of fried bread. Prepare 
the sauce and add to it a good quantity of mustard and a pinch of paprika ; coat 
the roes with the sauce, which should not be too thick. Dish up, and serve cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,956. BAVAROIS AU PARMESAN. 
^ pint milk. cayenne. I 2 ozs. Parmesan 



salt. 



3 yolks of eggs. I J oz. gelatine. | cheese. ^ gill cream. 

Put the milk into a stewpan ; beat the yolks in a basin. When the milk is nearly 
boOing. stir it on to the eggs ; return to the pan, and make a custard ; stir until it 
thickens, but it must not be allowed to boil ; turn into a basin, and let it get cold. 
PT. XI. 56 



864 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

Melt the gelatine in a tablespoonful of water ; strain into the custard ; add the 
grated cheese, the whipped cream, and seasoning. When nearly cold, put the 
mixture into little dariole-moulds ; put them in a cool place, or on ice, until required. 
The moulds should be rinsed out with cold water before filling. When ready to 
serve, turn out the little moulds on to a folded napkin or dish-paper, and garnish 
with sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 1 to 2 hours. Sufficient for 6 moulds. 

2,957. PETITS CHOUX AU FROMAGE. 

1 gill water. 2 ozs. flour. 1 whole egg. 1^ ozs. Parmesan 



1 oz. butter. 



seasoning. 



cheese. 



1 yolk of egg. 

Put the water and butter into a small stewpan ; sieve the flour on to a piece 
of kitchen paper. As soon as the water and butter boil stir in the flour ; mix 
vigorously with a wooden spoon until the mixture leaves the sides of the stewpan 
clean ; take it off the fire, and let it cool a little ; then add the eggs, one at a time, 
beating each in well. Stir in the grated cheese, and season with a little salt and 
cayenne. Let this mixture get cold, then put small spoonfuls of it on a buttered 
baking-sheet ; brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle with cheese, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



2,958. PYRAMIDES DE PARMESAN. 



2 ozs. flour. 
1 oz. butter. 



2 ozs. Parmesan 
cheese. 



1 gill cream, 
cayenne. 



salt. 

1 yolk of egg. 



Put the flour into a basin, add the butter, and rub it into the flour lightly with 
the fingers ; grate the cheese, and stir 1 oz. to the flour and butter ; season with a 
little salt and a pinch of cayenne ; beat the yolk of the egg with a little water ; 
mix this into the flour, so as to make a stiff paste. Turn it on to a floured board ; 
roll it out thinly, and cut into rounds with a cutter, 1| inches across ; place them 
on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Let them 
get cold. Whip the cream ; add the rest of the cheese ; season with a little salt 
and pepper, and pile this mixture on the cheese biscuits in the form of a pyramid ; 
sprinkle on the top of each a tiny dust of cayenne. Dish up on a dish-paper, 
garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 savouries. 

2,959. LES ANGES A CHEVAL (ANGELS ON HORSEBACK). 

8 oysters. | 8 croutons bread. | cayenne. | lemon-juice. | 8 sUces bacon. 

Cut out eight rounds of bread, about 2 inches across and about ^ inch thick ; 
fry these in very hot fat or butter a golden brown. Beard the oysters ; sprinkle 
them with cayenne and lemon-juice. Cut eight slices of streaky bacon very 
thinly ; roll each oyster in a slice of bacon. Lay these one on each crouton of 
fried bread, place them on a baking-sheet, and put into a hot oven long enough to 
just cook the bacon. Dish up, garnish with parsley or watercress, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,960. LES DIABLES A CHEVAL (DEVILS ON HORSEBACK). 

8 French plums. | 8 croiitons fried bread. | 2 ozs. foie-gras. | 8 slices bacon. ) cayenne. 

Stone the plums carefully ; rub the foie - gras through a sieve ; fill the plums 

with the puree. Cut eight rounds of bread, 2 inches across and \ inch thick ; fry 

in butter a golden colour ; slice the bacon very thinly ; place a plum in the centre 

of the bacon ; sprinkle with cayenne ; wrap the bacon round the plum ; place them 



SAVOURIES 865 

on a skewer, and broil over the fire, or put in a hot oven for a few minutes. Dish 
up on the croutes of bread ; arrange on a hot dish, and serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,961. SARDINES A LA DIABLE. 

6 sardines. cayenne. croutes of I breadcrumbs, 

mustard. 1 egg. bread. I parsley. 

Drain the sardines ; scrape them so as to remove the scales without breaking 
the fish ; cut a slice of bread about I inch thick ; cut this into finger shapes the 
size of the sardines ; fry them in very hot fat or butter until a golden colour. Make 
some mustard in the usual way, add to it a pinch of cayenne, and spread it over 
the sardines ; beat the egg, dip the sardines into it, toss in breadcrumbs, and 
fry in butter. Dish them on the fried croutons, garnish with parsley, and serve 
at once very hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2.962. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

4 yolks of eggs. | anchovy-paste. | J pint milk. | 4 slices buttered toast. [ salt. I pepper. 

Prepare the toast, butter it, and then put over it a thick layer of anchovy-paste ; 
keep hot. Beat the yolks of the eggs ; boil the milk ; stir it to the eggs ; season 
with salt and pepper. Put this into a stewpan, and stir over the fire until the 
mixture thickens ; pour over the toast, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 4 persons, 

2.963. CROOtES D'ANCHOIS. 

3 eggs. I 1 oz. butter. ^ teaspoonful parsley, tarragon, I croutes of fried bread. 

3 anchovies. ! cayenne. and chervil. I watercress. 

Boil the eggs hard, and let them get cold. Wipe and scrape the anchovies ; 
take out the bones, and chop two of them finely ; put them into a mortar with the 
butter and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs ; add the chopped herbs and a pinch 
of cayenne ; pound these all well together, and rub the mixture through a wire 
sieve. Have ready some round fried croutes of bread ; spread the above puree 
on them in rather a thick layer. Cut the remaining anchovy in thin strips ; pass 
the yolk of the third egg through a wire sieve, and chop the white. Arrange the 
fillets over the croutes in the form of lattice-work ; put in the spaces the yolk of 
egg, and white, and a little chopped parsley. Dish up on a dish-paper, garnish 
with watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 croutes. 

2,964. CEUFS D'ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY EGGS). 

3 eggs. I 1 teaspoonful anchovy- cayenne. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. 



1 oz. butter, i paste. 



watercress. 



6 croutes. 

Boil the eggs hard, and let them get cold ; shell them, and cut in half crossways ; 
take out the yolks carefully, so as not to break the whites ; put the yolks into a 
mortar ; add the butter, the anchovy sauce and paste ; pound all well together, 
and rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Have ready six small round croutes 
of fried bread. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a tube attached to it ; 
fill the whites of the eggs, shaping the mixture to a p3rramid form ; place each 
half-egg on a croute of bread, dish up in a circle on a dish, garnish with watercress, 
and serve cold. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 peitons. 

55—2 



866 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,965. CHAMPIGNONS SUR CROOTES (MUSHROOMS ON TOAST). 

8 large cup mushrooms. I salt. 8 croutes fried chopped parsley. 



2 ozs. butter. 1 pepper. 



bread. watercress. 



Cut off the stalks of the mushrooms and peel them ; melt the butter in a frying- 
pan ; put in the mushrooms as soon as it is hot, and grill them over a quick fire. 
Have ready some rounds of fried bread, a size larger than the mushrooms ; place a 
mushroom on each croute ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Dish 
up, garnish with watercress, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



\ teaspoonful anchovy I cayenne. 

essence. i croutes of fried bread. 



2,966. CROOtES D'ANCHOIS AUX TOMATES (ANCHOVY TOAST WITH 

TOMATOES). 

6 anchovies. 

1 tablespoonful tomato sauce. 

Wipe and bone the anchovies ; pound them in a mortar until fine ; mix in the 
anchovy sauce ; season with a pinch of cayenne ; rub through a wire sieve. Put 
this puree into a saucepan ; add the tomato sauce, and mix over the fire until hot. 
Have ready four or six round croutes of bread, fried a golden colour. Spread the 
mixture thickly on the croutes. Dish up, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. 

2,967. ROULLES D'ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY ROLLS). 
1 anchovy. 1 oz. butter. I 1 dessertspoonful tomato puree. chopped parsley. 



1 tomato. 



salt. 



1 pancake. | cayenne. 

Make a small quantity of batter ; season it with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley ; make a pancake with this. Bone the anchovy ; put it into a mortar with 
the butter and tomato puree ; pound well. Spread this mixture over the pan- 
cake ; sprinlde over a tiny dust of cayenne, roll up, and cut it in small pieces ; cut 
the tomato in slices ; place a roll on each piece of tomato ; put into the oven, and let 
it get very hot. 

Average cost, 5d. or 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,968. GHERKIN TOASTS. 
8 gherkins. | 6 cro<ites fried bread. | 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. | cayenne. | salt. 

Chop the gherkins finely ; cut the bread in small rounds or squares ; fry them a 
golden brown ; drain them well. Sprinkle over each croute some grated Parmesan 
cheese ; then cover with a layer of chopped gherkin ; sprinkle with a little salt and 
a very small quantity of cayenne. Arrange the toasts on a dish, garnish with 
parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,969. FONDUE A LA NEAPOLITAINE. 

1 oz. butter. I 1^ ozs. Parmesan 1 gill milk. I \ oz. cooked macaroni. I salt. 

1 oz. flour. i cheese. ^ oz. Gruyere cheese. 2 whites of eggs. 1 cayenne. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; add the flour ; stir in the milk, and boil 
until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean ; then add the grated Parmesan 
and Gruyere cheese and the macaroni ; season with salt and a pinch of cayenne. 
Whip the whites of the eggs very stiffiy, and stir them lightly to the mixture. 
Butter some small souffle-cases ; fill them three parts full ; put them into a moderate 
oven, and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. When done, dish up on a folded napkin 
placed on a dish, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



breadcrumbs, 
fried parsley. 



SAVOURIES 867 

2,970. RISSOLES DE FROMAGE (CHEESE RISSOLES). 

2 ozs. cheese. cayenne. puff-paste trimmings, 

salt. i gill cream. 1 egg. 

Roll out the puff - paste (trimmings left over from another dish do nicely foi 
this ; if this is not available, use a little short pastry) ; cut into rounds with a cutter, 
about 1^ inches across. Grate the cheese ; season it with a little salt and a few grains 
of cayenne ; whip the cream ; stir in the cheese. Place a little of this mixture in 
the centre of each round of pastry ; damp the edges with a little water ; fold over 
in half to form a half -moon shape ; press with the finger to make the edges adhere. 
Beat up an egg ; brush the rissoles over with it ; toss in Breadcrumbs, and fry a 
golden colour in very hot fat. Dish up in a pile, and garnish the dish with fried 
parsley. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,971. OLIVES A LA DIABLE. 

6 olives. I cayenne pepper. 1 oz. butter. I IJ ozs. Parmesan I parsley. 

2 ozs. flour. ; anchovy-paste. 1 yolk of egg. I cheese. | paprika pepper. 

Put the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter ; mix in the cheese and a pinch of 
cayenne and salt ; mix to a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg mixed with a little 
water ; turn on to a floured board, and roll out. Cut into rounds, 1| inches across ; 
prick them with a fork, put on a floured baking-sheet, and bake without colouring. 
When baked, cover the biscuits with anchovy-paste. Stone the olives, and cut 
them in slices ; arrange these slices over the biscuits ; sprinkle them with cayenne 
pepper; put a pinch of paprika in the centre of each croute; place them on a buttered 
baking- tin, and put in the oven tor eight or ten minutes. Dress them on a fancy 
dish -paper arranged on a hot dish, garnish with parsley or watercress, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient tor 6 persons. 

2,972. CAVIARE A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED CAVIARE). 

3 ozs. caviare. | ^ oz. butter. | cayenne. | J lemon. | croiites of fried bread. 

Cut the croutes with a round cutter, 1 inch in diameter and | inch thick ; scoop 
out some of the centre, and fry a golden brown colour in hot fat or butter ; mix 
the caviare with a squeeze of lemon-juice ; fill the croutes with the caviare ; put a 
tiny piece of butter on each ; sprinkle with cayenne. Place these croutes on a 
baking-sheet, and put in the oven for five minutes. Dish them on a hot dish in a 
circle, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persona. 

2,973. OYSTER TOAST. 

12 oysters. 8 rounds fried 2 anchovies. I cayenne. 

I oz. butter. bread. lemon-juice. I chopped parsley. 

Beard the oysters, and cut them in very small dice ; wash and scrape the 
anchovies, split open, and remove the bone ; cut these up in the same way as the 
oysters, and put them together. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; put in the 
oysters and anchovies, toss them about for a few minutes, then add the oyster 
liquor ; bring to the boil. Have ready and hot some round fried croutes of bread ; 
hollow them out a little in the centre. Season the oysters just before serving with 
a pinch of cayenne, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a little chopped parsley. Pour 
this mixture on to the croutes of fried bread. Dish up in a circle on a hot dish, 
garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 



868 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,974. FOIE DE VOLAILLE A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED CHICKEN LIVERS). 



3 chicken livers. 6 thin slices bacon. 

6 oval croutes toasted bread. 1 oz. butter. 



cayenne I mustard, 
pepper. I fried parsley. 



Wash the livers ; cut each in half ; mix butter and mustard together ; add cayenne 
and a pinch of salt. Spread this mixture over the livers ; wrap each one in a thin 
slice of bacon, and grill them quickly. Butter the toast ; place one of the grilled 
livers on each piece of toast. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

2,975. MARROW TOASTS. 

2 marrow bones. | 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. | 4 rounds toast. | seasoning. 

Boil the bones until the marrow is cooked ; take them up. Have ready some 
freshly-made toast ; scoop out the marrow with a teaspoon on to the toast ; spread 
it out ; sprinkle with a little pepper and salt and a pinch of chopped parsley on 
each. Serve very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 2d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 

Sufficient for 4 persons. 

2,976. EGG AND HAM TOASTS. 

4 ozs. cooked ham. I h gill cream. 1 teaspoonful chopped 6 squares or rounds toast. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. | I oz. butter. parsley. 1 shallot. 

Chop the ham and eggs finely ; melt the butter ; chop the shallot finely ; put 
it into the butter, and fry it a very light brown ; add the ham and the eggs ; mix all 
well together ; stir in the cream ; season with a little pepper. Have ready some 
pieces of toast cut in neat squares or rounds ; butter them, and spread the mixture 
thickly on them, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times 
Sufiicient for 6 persons. 

2,977. BEIGNETS DE FROMAGE (CHEESE FRITTERS). 

\ lb. Cheddar cheese. salad-oil. grated Parmesan cheese, 

cayenne pepper. frying-batter. fried parsley. 

Cut the cheese in pieces, about 1| inches long and 1 inch wide ; put the slices on 
a plate ; season lightly with cayenne and a little salad-oil. Make the frying-batter ; 
dip in the pieces of cheese ; drop them into hot fat, and fry for about five minutes 
until a golden colour. Take up ; drain on paper ; dish up ; sprinkle with a little 
grated Parmesan cheese. Garnish the dish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 25 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufiicient for 6 persons. 

2,978. COTELETTES AU FROMAGE (CHEESE CUTLETS). 



4 ozs. Cheddar 
cheese. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 



mustard, 
breadcrumbs. 



fried croutes of bread, 
fried parsley (No. 195). 



a little cream, 
cayenne. 

Chop the cheese finely ; put it into a mortar with the butter, and pound well ; 
add one egg, cayenne, and a little mustard ; mix well, and if not moist enough, add 
a little cream. Turn this mixture on to a board ; divide it into equal portions, 
and make them up into small cutlets. Beat the other egg on a plate ; dip the 
cutlets into it ; toss in breadcrumbs and fry them a golden brown in hot fat. Cut 
some bread the same shape and size as the cheese cutlets ; fry these in boiling fat 
a golden brown. Dish the croutes in a circle on a hot dish ; put a cutlet on each 
fried croute. Garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required. 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 cutlets. 



1 dried haddock, 
slices of bread. 



SAVOURIES 869 



2,979. HADDOCK TOASTS. 

1^ ozs. butter. 1 pepper. [ 2 hard-boiled eggs, 

salt. I ^ gill cream. \ chopped parsley. 



Cook the haddock ; remove skin and bones ; cut it up finely. Melt the butter 
in a stewpan ; put in the fish ; season to taste ; add the cream, and stir over the 
fire until thoroughly hot. Toast or try some pieces of bread about 2 inches square ; 
spread the mixture over the squares ; chop the eggs finely, and sprinkle them all 
over the haddock, and put a pinch of chopped parsley in the centre of each. Put 
in the oven for a few minutes, and send to table very hot. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 10 or 12 squares. 

2,980. LAITANCES DE HARENGS AU GRATIN (HERRING ROES AU 

GRATIN). 



12 soft roes. 
J small onion, 
cayenne. 



IJ ozs. butter. 1 breadcrumbs. 
6 mushrooms. chopped parsley. 



J oz. glaze. 
I oz. grated Parmesan 
cheese. 



salt. I J gill sherry. 

Wash the roes in cold water, then put them into boiling water for a few seconds, 
then drain and wipe them. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; chop the onion, and 
fry it in the butter (do not let it colour) ; chop the mushrooms, and add them to the 
onions ; fry until cooked, then add the roes ; season with salt and cayenne, cook 
for a few minutes, then arrange them on a fireproof dish in layers ; sprinkle over 
each layer a few breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, and a little grated cheese. Mix 
the sherry with the liquid glaze, pour it over the roes, then sprinkle with a few more 
breadcrumbs, parsley, and cheese ; pour over a little melted butter, and bake for 
about ten minutes in a moderate oven. Serve on the same dish, very hot. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, July to March. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

2,981. LOBSTER TOAST. 

1 lobster. | buttered toast. | ^ gill cream. | 1 oz. butter, i cayenne, j salt. [ watercress. 

Take the meat from the lobster ; chop it finely ; melt the butter in a stewpan. 
When hot, put in the lobster ; make quite hot ; season to taste with salt and cayenne, 
and mix in the cream. Make some slices of toast. When done, cut off the crusts, 
and butter the toast ; spread the lobster mixture on the toast ; cut them in squares 
or fingers. Dish them up neatly, garnish with watercress or parsley, and serve 
very hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, March to October. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,982. CROOtES A LA MADRAS. 

3 egg-yolks. 1 dessertspoonful sherry. j cayenne. 

1 oz. butter. IJ teaspoonfuls anchovy essence. | fingers of bread. 

Cut some stale bread in fingers. 2 inches long by | inch wide. Beat the egg- 
yolks ; add to them the sherry and anchovy essence. Dip the fingers of bread in 
this, then fry them in very hot butter ; drain, and put in the oven for a minute. 
While the croutes are frying, melt 1 oz. of butter in a frying-pan ; when hot, pour 
in the remains of the above mixture ; scramble it over the fire. Take the fingers 
out of the oven ; divide the scrambled mixture equally, and arrange it on the 
croutes. Dish up quickly, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



870 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,983. CROOTES A LA BENGAL. 



6 croutes, finger 

shape. 
6 olives. 



\ gill cream. 1 oz. butter. 

1 hard-boiled egg. | 1 teaspoonful 
4 anchovies. I chutney. 



pepper, 

salt. 

parsley or watercress. 

Cut the croutes of bread 2 inches long by | inch wide ; fry them a golden colour 
in boiling butter or clarified fat ; let them get cold. Wash and scrape the anchovies ; 
take out the bones ; cut them up ; put them into a mortar with 1 oz. of butter, the 
chutney, salt, and pepper ; pound well together. Spread this mixture on the fried 
croutes of bread ; smooth it over with a wet knife ; place a stoned olive in the centre 
of each ; put the yolk of the hard-boiled egg through a sieve ; whip the cream, add 
to it the sieved yolk ; season with salt and pepper, and fill the olives. Chop the 
white of the hard-boiled egg and a little parsley ; sprinkle the chopped white on 
the croutes round the olives ; garnish with a little chopped parsley sprinkled on 
the white of egg. Dish up on a fancy dish-paper, garnish the dish with parsley or 
watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,984. CROtTES A LA RUSSE. 



4 anchovies, i 1 oz. butter. 

1 shallot. I \ oz. Parmesan cheese. 



1 teaspoonful made 
mustard. 



salt. I 6 croutes bread, 

pepper. | paprika. 



Wash the anchovies ; scrape and bone them ; put them into a mortar with the 
chopped shallot, the grated cheese, and the butter ; pound all together to a smooth 
paste ; add the mustard, pepper, and salt to taste ; mix all together thoroughly ; 
fry some round croutes of bread ; cover them with the mixture in a thick layer, 
sprinkle a little paprika pepper on each, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,985. SAVOURY EGGS. 

5 eggs. I 1 oz. butter. 5 croutons fried I truffle. 

3 Gorgona anchovies. ' 1 oz. anchovy-paste. bread. ' parsley. 

Boil the eggs hard ; let them get cold ; shell the eggs carefully ; cut a piece oS 
each end so as to give them the shape of barrels. Scoop out the centre of each 
egg. This must be done with great care, so as not to break the eggs. Scrape the 
anchovies ; fillet them, and cut each fillet into strips — three strips for each egg. 
Place these round the eggs, one at the top, another at the bottom, and one round 
the centre. These are to represent the staves. Cut out little rounds of truffle 
and fix them on the sides of the eggs, to imitate the bungs of the barrels. Put the 
yolks of the eggs, the butter, and the anchovy-paste into a mortar ; pound all 
well together, then rub through a wire sieve ; put the puree into a forcing-bag with 
a rose-tube attached, and fill the eggs with the mixture. Place each egg on a crouton 
of fried bread. Dish up in a circle on a dish-paper, garnish with fresh parsley, and 
serve cold. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times, 
Sufficient for 5 persons. 

2,986. ANCHOIS EN SURPRISE. 

6 very small dinner-rolls. 2 hard-boiled eggs. I 1 teaspoonful parsley, tarra- I IJ tablespoonfuls 
cayenne. 4 anchovies. j gon, and chervil. | salad-oil. 

Cut a slice ofE the top of each roll ; scoop out the inside ; put the rolls on a 
baking-sheet in a cool oven for a few minutes to dry the insides ; reserve the slices 
cut ofi. Take the rolls out of the oven as soon as they are dry and crisp, and let 
them get cold. Chop the hard-boiled egg finely ; put it into a basin ; fillet the 
anchovies ; cut the fillets in dice, and add them to the egg ; chop the herbs ; mix 
these into the egg and anchovies ; add the oil and a pinch of cayenne ; stir all weU 




g^ 


«>i 






^^ 


O 


^^* 


JZ 


ffim^^ 


u 


^fe^ 


c 


W^ 


< 




— 


f 


•«» 


in 


»£: 




D 


I'™ 


V 




o 



SAVOURIES 871 

together. Fill up the little rolls with this mixture ; put on the tops ; dish on a 
folded napkin, garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,987. ANCHOIS FRITS (FRIED ANCHOVIES), 

8 anchovies. \ 8 croutes fried bread. I cayenne. 

2 tablespoonfuls salad-oii. Parmesan cheese. I parsley. 

Scrape, wash, and dry the anchovies. Cut some pieces" of bread into finger 
shapes ; fry them a golden brown in hot fat. Put the salad-oil into a frying-pan • 
when hot, place the anchovies in it, and fry them for a few minutes until quite hot. 
Take them up, drain, and put one on each piece of fried bread ; sprinkle them with 
grated Parmesan cheese, and serve hot. Garnish the dish on which they are 
served with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 




Fig. 232. — Fondants au FeomagBc 

2,988. FONDANTS AU FROMAGE. 

2 ozs. flour. I 2| ozs. Parmesan. | J gill milk. I 2 yolks of I 1 oz. butter. 

1^ ozs. butter. | cayenne. I salt. i eggs. | parsley. 

Put the flour into a basin ; rub the butter in with the fingers ; add 1^ ozs. of 
grated cheese, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne ; mix to a stiff paste with a 
little water. Turn this on to a floured board ; roll out, and cut it out with a 2-inch 
ornamental cutter ; brush them over with beaten egg, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. When cooked, let them get cold. Beat the yolks of eggs ; pour the milk on 
to them ; season with salt and cayenne ; put this into a stewpan and make a custard. 
As soon as it thickens, take it off the fire ; add the butter and 1 oz. of grated cheese. 
When the cheese-cakes are cold, spread some of this mixture over half of them 
place the others on the top, in pairs. Dish up on a dish-paper, garnish with sprigs 
of fresh parsley, and serve hot or cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 



872 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



2,989. CROOtES A LA PARISIENNE. 



stale bread. 
\ gill cream. 



anchovy- 
paste. 



cayenne. 

salt. 



parsley. 

J oz. butter. 



Cut some slices of stale bread, about I inch thick ; stamp out some rounds with 
a cutter, 1 inch across. Fry these croutes in very hot clarified fat or butter until 
a golden colour. Take them up, drain on kitchen paper, and let them get cold. 
Put the butter and an equal quantity of anchovy-paste into a mortar ; pound well 
together until thoroughly mixed ; pass it through a sieve. Put this mixture into 
a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached, and force out a large rose in the centre of 
each croute. Whip the cream until quite stiff ; season with a pinch of cayenne 
and salt ; put this into another forcing-bag with a rose- or star-pipe, and force out 
a circular row of small roses round the centre one on each croute. Sprinkle over a 
little chopped parsley or paprika. Dish up on a fancy paper arranged on a dish, 
garnish \\'ith sprigs of parsley or watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minute..s. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 233. — Petites Croutes de Homabd, 



2,990. PETITES CROOTES DE HOMARD (LITTLE LOBSTER CROOtES). 



4 ozs. lobster meat. 
IJ ozs. butter. 



cayenne. 



^ gill cream. 



8 or 10 croutes bread, 
oil. 



1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. 
J cucumber. 

Cut the croutes of bread with a round cutter, l\ inches in diameter ; fry them 
in very hot fat until a golden colour. Put aside from the lobster meat eight or ten 
Bmall pieces of lobster-claw or the red part of the meat. Chop the remainder 
very finely ; put it into a mortar with the butter ; pound well ; season with salt and 
a little cayenne. Put the pieces of lobster-claw on a plate, and pour a little oil 
over them. Spread the croutes with the lobster preparation. Scallop the sides 
of the cucumber, cut into very thin slices ; put one of these on each croute over the 
lobster mixture ; arrange one of the pieces of claw in the centre. Rub the hard- 
boiled yolk of egg through a wire sieve. Sprinkle a little of this on each side of 
the top of the croute. Dish up on a dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley or 
watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable all the year. 
Sufficient for. 8 or 10 persons. 



SAVOURIES 873 

2,991. ANCHOIS FARCIS. 

8 anchovies. I 1 tablespoonful 1 yolk of egg. I 1 teaspoonful breadcrumbs. I fr3nng-batter. 
a few capers. | shrimps. cayenne. I salt. | fried parsley. 

Wash the anchovies, dry them well, split open, and take out the bones. Chop 
the shrimps and capers finely ; mix them together in a basin ; season with a little 
cayenne and salt, if necessary ; add the breadcrumbs ; mix into a paste with the 
yolk of egg. Stuff the anchovies with this mixture ; close them up ; shape them 
nicely ; dip each one into fr3ang-batter, and fry in very hot fat until a golden 
colour. Take up, drain on a piece of kitchen-paper ; dish up on a fancy paper, and 
garnish with fried parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at ail times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

2,992. CROOTES A L'IMPfiRIALE. 



6 herring-roes. 



2 anchovies. 



^ gill cream. 1 teaspoonful French capers. 



cayenne, 
salt. 



parsley, 
anchovy-paste. 



8 or 10 croutons. 
^ oz. butter. 



Cut some slices of stale bread ; stamp out some ovals or rounds with a cutter, 
about 2 inches wide ; fry these in very hot butter a golden colour. Let the croutes 
get cold, then spread them with a thin layer of anchovy-paste. Wash the roes, 
boil them in salted water until firm ; drain ; put them into a mortar with the butter, 
the chopped capers, the boned and chopped anchovies ; pound well together, adding 
the whipped cream by degrees ; season with salt and cayenne, and rub the mixture 
through a fine sieve. Put this puree into a forcing-bag with a rose-pipe attached 
to it ; decorate the croutes with this prettily. The croutes should be well covered 
with the mixture. Garnish here and there with a little chopped parsley ; dish 
up in a circle on a dish-paper arranged on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley or 
watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, July to Feb- 
ruary. Roes can be obtained in jars ; in that case, all the year. Sufficient for 
8 or 10 persons. 

2,993. FLAN DE SOUFFLE DE FROMAGE (PASTRY-CASE WITH CHEESE 

SOUFFLE). 



6 ozs. short paste (No. 
2,183). 



1 oz. butter. 
^ oz. flour. 



1 gill milk. I 3 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 
cayenne. I 3 eggs. 



-Roll out the pastry, line a small flan ring with it ; prick the bottom, and fill 
the shape with raw rice ; bake in a moderate oven until a pale colour. Let cool, 
then remove the rice carefully. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, mix 
in the milk, and stir quickly until the mixture is thick and leaves the sides of the stew- 
pan clean. Take the pan ofiF the fire ; add a little cayenne and a pinch of salt. When 
sufficiently cool, beat in the yolks of the eggs, one at a time ; grate the cheese, and 
mix it in. Whip the three whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; add them to the mixture, 
and stir in lightly and quicldy. Pour the preparation into the pastry-case ; stand 
it on a baking-sheet, and place in a moderate oven to bake for about fifteen minutes. 
As soon as done, take it up, place on a dish with a fancy paper placed on it, and 
send to table as soon as possible. This dish must not be kept waiting, but must 
be cooked just when wanted. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable alwaj'^s. Sufficient 

for 6 or 8 persons. 

2,994. TALMOUSES DE FROMAGE. 

^ lb. short paste. I J oz. butter. I 1 yolk of egg. ' 1 oz. Gruydre [ salt. 

1 oz. flour. ' I gill water. | cayenne. | cheese. Parmesan cheese. 

Put the butter and water into a small stewpan ; sieve the flour, and, as soon as 
the water boils, stir in the flour ; mix quickly with a wooden spoon until the mixture 
leaves the sides of the pan clean ; take it off the fire ; season with a little salt and 
a grain or two of cayenne, and, as soon as cool enough, beat in the j^olk of the egg 



874 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



Chop the Gruyere cheese, and add it to the choux-paste just made. Turn on to a 
plate, and let it cool. Roll out the short paste, cut it out into rounds with a cutter, 
about 1| to 2 inches in diameter. In the centre of each round put a piece of the 
above mixture ; wet round the edges with a little water ; fold in three, so as to give 
each the shape of a three-cornered cocked hat ; brush them over with beaten egg ; 
sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 8 or 10 savouries. 

2,995. ECLAIRS D'ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY ECLAIRS). 



1 oz. butter. 

2 ozs. flour. 



1 gill water. 
1 whole egg. 



1 yolk of 
egg- 



aspic jelly, 
parsley. 



^ teaspoonful anchovy 
essence. 



For Filling. 

2 ozs. butter. cayenne. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 3 filleted anchovies. 

Put the butter and water into a saucepan on the fire ; sieve the flour. As soon 
as the water comes to the boil, put in the flour, stir quickly until the mixture leaves 
the sides of the pan clean. Let cool, then beat in the eggs, one at a time ; turn the 




X 



Fig. 234. — Eclaie.» d'Anchois. 



mixture on to a plate. When cold shape it into small rolls ; place these on a floured 
baking-sheet, and bake in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. When done, they 
should be firm and crisp. Prepare the filling as follows : Cut the eggs in halves, 
take out the yolks ; put them into a mortar with the butter ; add the filleted 
anchovies, and pound until smooth ; season with cayenne ; add the anchovy essence, 
and mix thoroughly. Open the eclairs at the side ; take out any soft paste there 
may be ; rub the anchovy mixture through a sieve ; put the puree into a paper-bag 
and fill the eclairs. Dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic and parsley. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 9 or 10 eclairs. 

2,996. CANAPES AUX SARDINES. 

6 sardines. salt. j ^ oz. grated Parmesan I butter. | 2 olives. 

6 crofites bread. pepper. | cheese. I 1 oz. meat-glaze. I milk. 

Cut the bread in finger shapes, the same shape as the sardines ; dip these in a 
little milk, and fry a golden colour in hot clarified butter ; season them with a 



SAVOURIES 



875 



pinch of salt and pepper, and put them in the oven to keep hot. Wash the sardines 
in hot water, dry well, and remove the skin. Place a sardine on each croute of 
bread. Grate some cheese ; sprinkle this thickly over the sardines. Chop the 
olives finely ; melt the glaze, pour the glaze over the canapes ; put a little heap 
of minced olives in the centre of each, and put in the oven to get thoroughly hot. 
Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all timea 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

2,997. SARDINES EN FRITOT. 

6 sardines. | frying-batter. ] Parmesan cheese. | fried parsley (No. 195). 

Wash the sardines, wipe and skin them. Heat some frying-fat ; dip the sardines 
into frying-batter, drop them into the boiling fat, and fry till crisp and a golden 
brown. Dish them in a pile on a hot dish ; sprinkle over some grated Parmesan 
cheese, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 




Fig. 235. — Tartines de Marguerite. 



2 ozs. ham. 

J gill mayonnaise. 



8 croutes bread, 
watercress or parsley. 



2,998. TARTINES DE MARGUERITE. 

1 gill aspic jelly. I 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoonful cream. | 1 sheet gelatine. 

Chop the ham finely, which should be cooked, and lean ; mix the cream with 
it, and season with a little cayenne. Fry eight round croutes of bread, 1| inches 
in diameter, a golden colour ; let them get cold, then cover with a layer of the ham 
mixture. Melt the gelatine in | gill of the aspic jelly ; mix this into the mayon- 
naise sauce ; put on ice, and stir until it begins to thicken, then coat the croutes 
with it over the ham mixture. Let this set. Cut the hard-boiled white of egg in 
pieces with a small cutter, to represent petals ; arrange these round the edge of 
each croute. Fill the centre with the sieved yolk. Instead of cutting the white 
in pieces with a cutter, it can be chopped and arranged round the top of the croutes 
in a ring, and the sieved yolk in the centre. Dish up, and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley and watercress and small squares of aspic jelly placed here and there on 
the dish. Serve cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



876 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

2,999. CROOTES D'ANCHOIS A LA COLMAR. 

6 oblong croutes. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 dessertspoonful I 1 tablespoonful liquid aspic. 

6 anchovies. paprika pepper. salad-oil. 1 \ gill cream. 

Cut the croutes 2 inches long and 1 inch wide, fry them a golden brown in butter 
or clarified fat, drain, and let them get cold. Wash and scrape the anchovies, 
split them open, and take out the bone ; put three anchovies aside for decoration , 
put the remainder into a mortar with the hard-boiled yolk of one egg, the salad-oil, 
and a pinch of paprika pepper. Pound all together until smooth, then mix in the 
aspic ]Q\\y, which should be just liquid ; whip the cream stiffly, and stir it into the 
rest of the ingredients. Put this mixture on ice until it begins to set, then spread 
it on the croutes of bread in a rocky fashion. Cut up the other three anchovies 
in strips ; arrange these in lattice style over the croutes ; sieve the yolk of the other 
hard-boiled egg, and chop the white finely ; decorate with these between the fillets 
Dish up on a dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress, and serve 
cold. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 6 persons. 

3,000. CROOTES AUX CEUFS (EGG CROOTES). 



2 slices bread. I IJ ozs. butter. | 1 oz. anchovy - 



capers. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. ! 3 anchovies. I paste. chopped parsley. 

Cut the bread into six squares of 2 inches ; fry these in boiling fat a golden 
colour. Pound 1 oz. of butter with the anchovy-paste until smooth. Spread 
this over the croutes of bread. Shell the eggs, cut the two ends oj5, and then cut 
each egg into three slices ; take out the yolk, and put into a mortar with | oz, 
of butter ; season with a pinch of cayenne and a little salt ; pound well. Place 
a ring of hard-boiled white of egg on each croute of bread ; fill the centre with the 
yolk mixture. Fillet the anchovies, and chop them up small ; chop a few 
capers and some parsley. At the corners of the croutes of bread arrange a garnish 
of the anchovies at two opposite corners, and at the other two the chopped capers ; 
on the centre of the filling of the eggs sprinkle a little chopped parsley. Dish up 
in a circle on a fancy dish-paper, garnish the centre with parsley or watercress, 
and serve cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

3,001. croOtons aux huItres. 



12 oysters. I 1 oz. butter. 



1 tablespoonful cream. ^ oz. flour. 



slices of stale bread. 



8 preserved mushrooms. I lemon-juice. 2 tablespoonfuls stock. 

Cut one or two slices of stale bread, about 2 inches thick ; stamp out some 
pieces with a plain round cutter, 1^ inches across ; cut these with a smaller cutter, 
but they must not be cut right through. Fry them a golden brown colour in hot 
fat. Drain when done ; lift off the lids ; put these aside ; scoop out some of the 
centre. Open the oysters, keep the liquor, take off the beards. Cut the oysters 
into dice ; melt a little butter in a small stewpan ; cut the mushrooms into strips, 
and toss them in it. Put the rest of the butter into another stewpan ; stir in the 
flour ; add the oyster liquor and the stock ; boil and season ; add the cream. Simmer 
very gently until it is thick enough, then add the oysters ; heat thoroughly, but do 
not boil again after the oysters are added ; squeeze in a few drops of lemon- juice 
Fill the bread croutes with this mixture ; put on the little hds which were put aside 
Dish up on a hot dish in a circle. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable, September to April. 
Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 



SAVOURIES 



877 



3,002. CEUFS FARCIS SUR TOMATES (STUFFED EGGS ON TOMATOES). 



3 eggs. 

2 tomatoes. 



pepper, 
parsley. 



1 oz. butter. 1 oz. ham. 

1 anchovy. salt. 

Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes ; put them into cold water for a minute, then 
shell and cut in half, crossways. Take out the yolks carefully, so as not to break 
the whites. Pound the yolks in a mortar with the butter, cooked ham, boned and 
filleted anchovy ; season to taste. When smooth, pass through a wire sieve. If 
too stiff, a little cream or white sauce may be added to make it the right consistency. 
Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe attached, and fill the whites 
of the eggs. Cut the tomatoes in three slices each ; stand on each slice one of the 
stuffed whites of eggs, filled side down. Decorate them to taste with the rest of the 
mixture in the forcing-bag. Dish up in a circle on a fancy paper arranged on a 
dish, and garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress. Serve cold. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 




FiQ. 236. — CEuFs Farcis sue Tomates. 



3,003. SARDINE TOAST. 
6 sardines. | 1 oz. butter. | pepper. | 1 teaspoonful cream. | hot buttered toast. 

Drain the sardines, scrape them, split open, and remove the bones. Put the 
fillets into a mortar with the butter, cream, and a little pepper ; pound well. Put 
the mixture into a small stewpan and make hot. Make some toast ; cut off the 
crust, butter it, and spread the mixture over. Cut in squares or fingers, dish up, 
and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

3,004. SARDINES AU PARMESAN. 
6 sardines. | 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. | cayenne. | 6 pieces bread. | butter. 
Drain the sardines, scrape off the skin, cut off the end of the tails, put them into 
the Parmesan cheese, turn them about in it until well coated. Cut the bread in 
strips, just a little bigger than the sardines ; fry these a golden brown in hot butter. 
Place a sardine on each strip of fried bread ; sprinkle over a few grains of cayenne ; 
put in the oven to get hot through. Dress on a hot dish, and serve. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



878 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



3,005. CROOTES DE SARDINES (SARDINE TOAST). 



1 teaspoonful chili vinegar. 
1 de'ssertspoonful Worcester 
sauce. 



f dessertspoonful anchovy sauce. 
4 tablespoonfuls cream or milk, 
fried bread. 



4 sardines. 
1 oz. butter. 
4 yolks of eggs. 

Skin and bone the sardines ; cut eight pieces of bread in finger shapes the 
length of a sardine ; fry these a golden colour in hot fat or butter. Put the yolks 
of the eggs into a small stewpan ; add to them the butter, vinegar, the sauces, and 
the cream or milk ; stir these over the fire until the mixture is thoroughly hot and 
thickens, but do not let it boil. Spread this mixture on the croutes of fried bread ; 
place on the top of each the half of a sardine. Put them into the oven for a few 
minutes to get thoroughly hot. Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 persons. 




Fig. 237. — Talmouses de Merluche Fumee. 



3,006. TALMOUSES DE MERLUCHE FUMEE (TALMOUSES OF DRIED 

HADDOCK). 



half dried haddock. 

IJ ozs. Parmesan cheese. 



2 ozs. flour. 
IJ ozs. butter. 



1 tablespoon ful white sauce. 
1 teaspoonful lemon -juice. 



2 yolks of eggs, 
cayenne. 

Put the flour into a basin, add to it 1 oz. of butter, cayenne, | oz. of grated 
cheese, one yolk of egg, lemon-juice, and a little water ; make into a paste. Cook 
the haddock, let it get cold, then take away the skin and bones. Chop the flesh 
finely ; melt the remaining | oz. of butter in a stewpan ; stir over the fire ; mix in 
1 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with a little cayenne ; mix with the sauce 
and half a yolk of egg. Mix thoroughly. Turn the paste on to a floured board ; 
roll it out rather thinly ; stamp it out with a round cutter about 2 inches in diameter ; 
put about a teaspoonful of the mixture in the centre of each piece of pastry ; wet 
the edges with a little water or white of egg, then fold into a triangular shape, 
similar to a parson's hat {talmouse). Brush over with beaten egg, put a few 
grains of cayenne on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
SuJB&cient for 6 persons. 




(/« 
I/I 

"> 

V 

o 
UJ 



X 

CO 



a. 



SAVOURIES 879 



3,007. SARDINES A LA PIETMONTAISE. 

4 yolks of eggs. I salt. 1 teaspoonful malt vinegar. 

a little mustard. [ ^ oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 



6 sardines. 

6 croutes fried bread. 



Take the scales off the sardines ; fry six croutes of bread finger shapes. Place 
a sardine on each, and put in the oven to get hot while the sauce is made. Put all 
the above ingredients into a small stewpan, and mix well together over the fire 
till it thickens, but it must not boil. Cover the sardines with this sauce. Dish 
up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient tor 6 persons. 

3,008. PETITES BATEAUX AUX ECREVISSES. 



1 gill shrimps. 
4 ozs. butter. 



4 ozs. flour. 

2 hard-boiled yolks. 



^ teaspoonful anchovy 1 cayenne, 
sauce. I jice-papor. 



Put the flour into a basin ; add 2 ozs. of butter ; rub it into the flour with the 
fingers ; mix with water to a stiff paste. Roll out, and line with it some small 
oval-shaped moulds ; fill them with rice, in order to keep the pastry in shape ; put 
them into a moderate oven, and bake a light brown colour. Remove from the 
oven when done ; turn out the rice, and take the pastry-cases out of the tins ; let 
them get cold. Put the prawns or shrimps into a mortar ; add to them the hard- 
boiled eggs, 2 ozs. of butter, a little cayenne, and the anchovy essence. Put this 
mixture through a sieve. Fill the little pastry-cases with the mixture, smooth 
it over the top. With some of the pastry cut out some thin strips, suitable to use 
for masts, and bake them ; cut out some rice-paper in triangles to make the sails ; 
pass the masts through these sails ; place one of these in the centre of each boat ; 
decorate with shrimps and chopped parsley. D-ish up on a dish-paper or foldfed 
napkin, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times* 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

3,009. CROUTES DE CAVIAR. 

8 croutes bread. | caviar. | i gill cream. | maitre d'hotel butter (No. 180). | lemon. [ parsley. 

Cut the croutes of bread into finger shapes ; fry them a golden brown in boiling 
clarified fat or butter ; let them get cold. Cover the croutes with a layer of fresh 
caviar. Put away in the refrigerator or in a cool place until ready to serve. Then 
spread a thin layer of the maitre d'hotel butter over the caviar. Whip the cream, 
season with a pinch of salt and cayenne, put it into a paper cornet or forcing-bag 
with a plain pipe, and decorate the croutes with dots of the cream straight down the 
centre of the croutes. Dish up in a row on a fancy dish-paper, garnish with slices 
of lemon and sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost. 3s. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

3,010. TARTINES D'ECREVISSES A LA ST. PIERRE. 

12 large prawns. | 2 ozs. butter. | 2 yolks. | seasoning. | toasted bread. | cayom;ie. | | gill cream. 

Put 1 OZ. of tlie butter into a small stewpan, and, when melted, add the yolks, 
and stir over the fire for a short time, but do not let it boil. Put the remanider of 
the butter into a mortar with the shelled prawns, season, and rub through a wire 
sieve. Stir this puree into the eggs and butter ; add the cream, and mix all well 
together. Spread the mixture on fingers of toasted bread in, a thick layer ; bake 
for two minutes in a hot oven. Dish up, and serve at once, very hot. 

Average cost," Is. 2d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, April to August 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

^T. XII. '^^ 



880 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



3,011. croOtes de fromage a la diable. 

slices of bread. [ cream cheese. | cayenne. | butter. | mustard. 

Toast some slices of stale bread, cut off the crusts when done, and butter the 
toast ; spread over this a layer of any kind of cream cheese ; sprinkle very lightly 
with cayenne and mustard. Cut in squares, put into a quick oven for a few 
minutes, and serve very hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 



1 doz. prawns. 

2 ozs. butter. 



3,012. CANAPES D'ECREVISSES (PRAWN CANAPES) 

6 croutes fried salt. 

bread. parsley or watercress. 

Put the prawns unshelled into a mortar wifli the butter ; pound well together ; 
Beason to taste with salt and cayenne. Rub this mixture through a fine hair sieve. 
Fry some round croutes of bread a golden brown ; spread a thick layer of the prawn 



cayenne, 
shrimps. 




Fio. 238. — CANAras d'Ecrevisses. 



mixture on the croutes ; decorate with shrimps in the form of a star ; put a pinch of 
paprika pepper or chopped parsley in the centre of each. Dish up, garnish with 
parsley or watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, April to August. 
Sufficient for 6 persons. 

3,013. BATONS A LA GRUYERE. 

4 ozs. puff-paste. 1^ ozs. Parmesan cheese. 1^ ozs. Gruy^re cheese. salt. 

2 eggs. 2 ozs. butter. cayenne. parsley. 

Beat two yolks of eggs and one white in a basin ; grate the Parmesan and 
Gruyere cheese ; stir it into the beaten eggs ; melt the butter, and add it to the 
other ingredients ; season with a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Roll 
out the pastry thinly ; cut it into two pieces ; spread the cheese mixture over one 
piece, place the other on the top. Cut out in strips (baton shapes), brush over 
with egg, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish them in lattice style 
in a pile, and serve hot. Garnish the dish with sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 1 hour ; if paste trimmings are used, 
20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



SAVOURIES 



881 



3,014. ALLUMETTES D'ANCHOIS. 

4 ozs. flour. I 2 ozs. butter. | 1 yolk of egg. | anchovy- paato. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter ; beat the yolk of egg with a 

little water ; add to the flour and butter, and make into a stiff paste. Turn on to 

a floured board ; roll it out thinly ; spread with a thin layer of anchovy paste ; cut 

into thin strips, and bake in a moderate oven. ^ 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for G to 8 persons. 

3,015. TRIFLES. 

2 small cooked potatoes. | 2 ozs. cooked ham. | mustard butter (No. ISS). | par3lcy. 

Cut the potatoes in slices, not too thin (each potato should cut four slices). Stamp 

out with a round cutter eight slices of ham the same size as the potato ; prepare 

some mustard butter ; spread a very thin la3'er over the slices of potato ; put a 

piece of ham on the top of each ; press together hghtly. Put the remainder of tho 




Fia. 2d9.— Tbxflbs. 



mustard butter into a paper cornet with a star-pipe attached, and force out some 
roses on the top of each. Dish up on a fancy paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley 
or watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

3,016. DENISES D'CEUFS. 



1 tablospoenful cream, 
bread and butter. 



frying' batter. 

fried parsley (No. 195). 



2 hard-boiled I 1 oz. butter. 

eggs. I salt. 

Shell the eggs, cut them up small, put them into a mortar, and pound tlicra 
with the butter ; add the cream, and season with a little salt and cayenne. Cut 
some thin slices of bread and butter ; stamp out some small rounds with a cutter ; 
spread the mixture over these, and join together like sandwiches. Have ready 
some frying batter and some boiling fat ; dip each sandwich into the batter, and 
then into the fat, and fry them a golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper. Dish 
them in a pile on a dish-paper, and serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for G to 8 persons. 

56—2 



B82 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



3,017. AMANDES A LA DIABLE (DEVILLED ALMONDS). 
J lb. Jordan almonds. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. | cayenne. 
Put the almonds into a stewpan, cover with hot water, and bring to the boil , 
drain and skin ; dry them in a cloth. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and when it 
gets hot clarify it by taking off the scum as it rises ; then put in the almonds ; stir 
them about until they are lightly browned all over. Pour them into a cullender or 
frying-basket, drain, and shake them about ; sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper, 
and shake them again, so that they get well coated. Dish up, and serve hot. 
Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



3,018. FAILLES AUX ANCHOIS (ANCHOVY CHEESE STRAWS). 

2 ozs. flour. I l\ ozs. butter. | 1^ ozs. Parmesan. | 1 yolk of egg. | water. J oayenne | 3 anchovies. 

Put the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter ; add the Parmesan cheese grated 

and a pinch of cayenne ; mix together. Beat the yolk of an egg ; mix a little water 

with it ; stir as much as is needed into the flour to make a stiff paste. Turn on to 

a floured board, and cut in strips about 4 inches long. Wash and scrape some 




Fig. 240. — Failles aux Anchgis. 

anchovies, fillet them, and cut each fillet in half. Put one of these pieces with one 
of the cheese straws ; twist them together. Continue until all the anchovy strips 
are used up. Place them on a floured tin, and bake in a moderate oven until done. 
Dish up, and serve. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufticient for 12 straws. 



3,019. AMANDES SALEES (SALTED ALMONDS). 

\ lb. Jordan almonds. | 2 ozs. butter. | salt. 

Blanch the almonds, peel them. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, clarify it, and 
add the oil ; make hot, and then put the almonds into it ; stir over the fire until 
they are lightly browned. Have ready on a cloth some fine salt ; take up the 
almonds, turn them at once into the cloth, shake the salt over them. When cool, 
they are ready to serve. Dish them in fancy dishes, and serve with the dessert. The 
almonds can be prepared and placed in bottles, corked down, and used as required. 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



SAVOURIES 



883 



3,020. CROUTES A LA PORTUGUESE. 
2 sausages. [ 8 croutes bread. | 1 oz. cheese. | 1 gill tomato sauce. | | oz. butter. 

Skin the sausages, cut them in half lengthways, and then each half in half again 
crossways ; fry these quickly. Cut some pieces of bread about | inch thick, the 
size and shape of the pieces of sausage ; fry them a golden colour in very hot fat 
or butter. As soon as the sausages are cooked, place one of the pieces on each croute 
of bread. Heat the sauce ; stir into it half the cheese ; season nicely with salt and 
a tiny pinch of cayenne ; coat the sausages with this. Sprinkle the remainder of 
the cheese over ; put a tiny piece of butter on each, and place in a hot oven or 
under a salamander to brown for a few minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable, September to 
April. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

3,021. PETITES MARQUISES AU MERLUCHE. 

^ oz. butter. cucumber. 

^ gill fish aspic. | ^ gill cream. 

Roll out the pastry ; line some small bouche-moulds with it ; fill them with rice, 
and bake. When done, turn them out of the moulds, remove the rice, and let them 
get cold. Cook the fish ; take the white meat, and pound it well with the butter ; 



4 0Z8. short or puff-paste. 
4 ozs. dried haddock. 




Fio. 241. — Petites Makquises ad Mebluche. 



rub through a wire sieve. Put the puree into a basin ; add the aspic to it, also the 
cream, slightly whipped, and seasoning. Fill the pastry-cases with this mixture 
by means of a forcing-bag and pipe. Take a piece of cucumber, scallop the edges, 
cut in slices, and then in convenient pieces ; arrange them round the edge of the 
cases, with the fish-cream coming above. Dish up, garnish with crisp sprigs of 
parsley, and serve cold. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 45 minutea. Seasonable, May to September, 
Sufficient for G to 8 persons. 

3,022. CORBEILLES AUX CHAMPIGNONS (MUSHROOM BASKETS). 



1 tablespoonful cream, 
chopped parsley. 



4 lb. short paste (No. , ^ lb. mushrooms, i 1 oz. butter. salt. 
2,183). I 1 shallot. | cayemie. pepper. 

Roll out the pastry ; cut it out in rounds, and line some small bouche-moulda 

or small fluted patty-pans with them ; fill with rice, and bake in a moderate oven 

without colouring. From the centres of some of the rounds of pastry cut out the 



884 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



centre, so as to form rings. Cut these in half (these are for the handles of the 
baskets). Arrange them on a baking-sheet and bake. Peel, wash, and trim the 
mushrooms ; chop them into dice. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; iiy the chopped 
shallot ; add the mushrooms, and cook them over the fire ; then mix in the cream ; 
season with salt, pepper, and a few grains of cayenne. Take the rice out of the 
little pastr3^-cases ; fill them with the mvishroom mixture ; sprinkle with chopped 
parsley ; fasten the handles across, and put them into the oven to get quite hot 
for five or six minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 to 10 per.sons. 



2 bard-bofled eggs. 
G sardines. 
\ oz. bulter. 



egg- 
breadcrumbs, 
parsley. 



3,023. COTELETTES D'CEUFS AUX SARDINES (EGG CUTLETS WITH 

SARDINES). 

1 dessertspoonful J gill milk. 

parsley. salt. 

J oz. flour. cayenne. 

Chop the eggs ; drain the sardines free from oil, scrape off the scales, slit them 
open, and take out the bone ; chop them finely. Put the butter into a small stew- 
pan ; add the flour ; stir in the milk, and boil until thick. Add the chopped eggs and 

\ 




Fig. 242. — C6tblettm3 d'ceufs aux Sardinis. 



eardines ; season with salt and pepper ; stir in the chopped parsley ; mix all well 
together ; turn on to a plate to cool. Divide the mixture into six equal parts ; 
ehape each portion into a cutlet ; dip in egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot 
fat until a golden colour. Take up, drain on a piece of kitchen paper. Dish up, 
and garnish with fried parsley. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 30 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for C persons. 

3,024. TOMATES A LA MADRID. 

1 oz. butter. seasoning. 

1 dessertspoonful 1 tablespoonful Espagnole 

chutney. sauce (No. 33). 

Cut the tomatoes in slices, not too thin ; each tomato should cut into three 
slices. Shell the eggs, take out the yolks ; put them into a mortar with the butter. 
Add the chutney, and pound well toi^ether ; mix in the sauce and seasoning ; rub 



2 tomatoes. 

6 gherkins. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



chopped parsley, 
parsley or water- 
cress. 




\ 






e 

o 

I- 



SAVOURIES 



8S5 



through a fine sieve. Cut the gherkins in strips, but not quite separating them, so 
as to make them look hke a flower. Spread some of the prepared mixture over the 
Blices of tomato ; fix a gherkin in the centre of each : decorate with some of the 
mixture put tlirough a bag, or with a Httle chopped parsley. Dish them on a 
napkin or dish-paper, and garnish with sprigs of watercress or parsley. Serve 
cold. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, 9d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



4 0Z8. flour. 
3 OZ8. butter. 



1 gill milk. 
^ oz. cornflour. 



2 -yolks of eggs. 

2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. 



cayenni&. 
salt. 



3,025. DIABLOTINS AU PARMESAN. 

anchovy paste, 
anchovy sauce. 

Put the flour into a basin ; add 2 ozs. of butter, and rub it into the flour hghtly 
with the fingers. Mix to a stiff paste with water and anchovy sauce. Grease 
six or eight little bouche- moulds. RoU out the pastry on a floured board, and line 
the tins with it. Put the milk into a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter ; mix the corn- 
flour to a smooth paste with a little milk. As soon as the milk boils, stir in the 



-%--* 




^ 



Fig. 243. — Diablotins au Pabmesan. 



cornflour, and cook a few minutes. Let cool a little, then add the yolks of the eggs, 
and stir until they are cooked ; mix in the grated Parmesan cheese ; season to taato 
with a little salt and cayenne. Fill the tins half full with this mixture, then 
put in a piece of anchovy paste ; fill the tins with the mixture. Put them on 
a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Average cost. Is. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 

3,026. OLIVES AUX CEUFS (OLIVES WITH EGGS). 



4 hard-boiled eggs. 
8 olives. 



1 oz. butter. 

2 ozs. cooked ham. 



a little cream, 
seasoning. 



croiites of fried bread, 
sprigs of parsley. 



Shell the eggs, cut them in halves crossways, take out the yolks carefully, so 
as not to break the whites ; cut a slice off the end of each half to make them stand. 
Pound the yolks with the butter and ham, season to taste, and add the cream ; 
pound well, then rub through a wire sieve. Stone the olives carefully ; put the 
mixture into a forcing-bag and fill the eggs ; put a stoned oUve in the centre, and 



886 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



fill that also. Dish the eggs on small round croutes of fried bread. Dish on a dish- 
paper, and garnish with parsley. Instead of ham, anchovy paste can be used for 
the filling. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost. Is. 3d. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 

3,027. AIGUILLES AU PARMESAN. 

1 gill milk. I 2 ozs. flour. | 1 oz. butter. | 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. [ 2 eggs. | seasoning. 

Grate the cheese ; put the milk and butter into a saucepan, bring to the boil ; 
pass the flour through a sieve, and as soon as the milk and butter boil, stir the flour 
in very quickly, and cook until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean ; remove 
from the fire, and when cool enough, beat in the eggs, one at a time ; then add the 
cheese, a little salt, and cayenne ; let this mixture get cold, then rub it through 
a cullender into hot fat. When done, they should be crisp and dry. Dish up in 
a pile, and sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over. Serve hot. 

Average cost, 5d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. 




Fig. 244. — Aiguilles ad Parmesan. 



\ 



J lb. puff-pastry. 
2 ozB. anchovy 
paste. 



3,028 

8 stoned olives 

1 oz. butter. 

2 gherkins. 



TARTINES A LA LUCULLUS. 

2 hard-boiled yolks of eggt. 



cayenne. 

1 oz. Parmesan cheese. 



4 anchovies. 
1 tablespoonful white 
sauce. 

Make the pastry in the usual way ; the last three rolls sprinkle the grated cheese 
over. Roll into one long strip ; cut it in half across (it should be I inch thick). 
Spread one half with anchovy paste ; place the other half over, sandwich fashion ; 
'cut in squares 2 to 3 inches across ; brush oveu with beaten yolk of egg ; put on a 
baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven until a nice colour. Let them get cold. Shell 
the hard-boiled eggs ; put the yolks into a mortar with the butter, the chopped 
gherkins, 1 oz. of anchovy paste, the white sauce, and a pinch of cayenne ; pound 
all well together, and then rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Put this mixture 
into a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe, and decorate the top of each piece of pastry 
with it. Put a stoned oHve in the centre ; fillet the anchovies, and arrange a fillet 
round each olive. Dish up on a fancy dish-paper or on a folded napkin arranged 
on a dish, garnish with parsley or watercress, and serve cold. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable at all times. 
Sufficient for 8 persons. 



SAVOURIES 



887 



3,029. PARMESAN BALLS. 

2 whites of eggs. | 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese. ( cayenn©. 

Beat the whites very stiffly ; grate the cheese ; stir it Hghtly into the whites ; 

season with a httle salt and cayenne. Make this paste into httle balls, the size of 

marbles. Drop them into boiling fat, and fry a golden colour. Drain when done, 

and serve hot. After they are dished up, sprinkle with grated cheese. 

Average cost, 4d. Time required, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 



3,030. CHEESE STRAWS. 



2 ozs. flour. 
IJ ozs. butter. 



1^ ozs. Parmesan 
cheese. 



legg. 
salt. 



cayeano. 

i oz. Cheddar cheese. 



Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub in the butter lightly with the fingers ; grate the 
Parmesan and Cheddar cheese ; mix into the flour and butter ; add a pinch of salt 
and cayenne ; mix into a paste with the yolk of the egg and a little water. Turn 
this paste on to a floured board ; roll it out into a strip about ^ inch thick and 4 inches 
wide ; cut into strips, which must be all the same size. With two cutters, one 



^^^B^^^^ >^^ 




IH 


■ ^ ^r— ffli: 


i[j^£rv ^ttMIH 


^^1 ^^ 


^^^ ^#^-^ 


n^^*^^^^ — 


"^i^ /^H 




fW" 


^^fl 



^ 



Fig. 245. — Cheese Straws. 

♦ ■ • 

Bmaller than the other, stamp out sonia rings. Flour a baking-sheet ; put th« 
straws and rings on it, and bake a golden colour in a hot oven. They 'wall tak© 
about ten minutes to cook. When they are baked, pass the straws through tha 
rings, making httle bundles. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 bundles. 

3,031. OLIVES FARCIS AUX MARRONS (OLIVES STUFFED WITH 

CHESTNUTS). 



8 olives. 
8 croutes fried 
bread. 



4 chestnuts. 
1 oz. lean cooked 
ham. 



^ oz. flour. 

peppercorns. 

seasoning. 



chopped parsley. 
2 hard-boiled eggs, 
piece of carrot. 



2 ozs. butter. 

stock. 

1 small onion. 

Chop the onion ; cut the ham into dice ; slice the carrot thinly. Melt 1 oz. of 
butter in a stewpan ; put in the vegetables and the ham ; fry brown ; add the 
peppercorns, then the flour ; brown lightly ; add the stock, and simmer gently 
for ten minutes ; season with salt, and strain. Slit the chestnuts, put them into 
the oven, and cook until the shells and inner skin can be removed easily, then boil 
them in stock until tender. Put the chestnuts into the mortar, with 1 oz. of butter, 
and pound to a paste ; moisten with a little of the prepared sauce. Mix thoroughly ; 



888 



THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



season, and rub through a sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag, and fill the 
olives with it ; put them into the sauce, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. 
Cut eight croutes of bread \ inch thick ; scoop out some of the centre of the croutes, 
80 as to hold the oUves. When about to serve, take up the olives, place one on 
each croute, dress them in a ciccle on a hot dish. Shell the hard-boiled eggs 
quickly while hot ; cut them in quarters, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and arrange 
them in the centre of the dish. Pour the sauce round, and serve hot. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
February. Sufficient for 8 persons. 

3,032. CHEESE AIGRETTES. 



2 ozs. flour. 
1 oz. butter. 



\ pint water. 



1^ ozs. Parmesan cheese. 



1 whole egg. 
cayenne. 



salt. 

1 yolk of egg. 



Put the flour through a sieve on to a piece of kitchen paper ; put the butter and 
water into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. As soon as it boils, add the flour, and 
stir quicldy over the fire until the panada leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. 
Take the pan off the fire, and beat the mixture until cool enough to add the eggs ; 




Fig. 246. — Cheesb Aigrettes. 



then put in the whole egg ; beat well until quite smooth, then put in the yolk, and 
beat again in the same way. Grate the cheese ; stir it into the mixture ; season to 
taste with salt and cayenne. Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Have ready 
a saucepan of hot fat ; it must not be boiling. When ready to fry, take up a small 
piece of the mix'ture with a teaspoon and drop it into the fat, and fry for about 
ten minutes. The aigrettes should be a golden brown, and crisp, when done. Dish 
on a napkin or dish-paper, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan. Serve hot. 
Average cost, 6d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. 

3,033. CASSOLETTES DE FROMAGE (CHEESE CASSOLETTES). 

J oz. butter. breadcrumbs. 1 3 ozs. cheese. cayenne. 

I gill water. 1 yolk. 1 salt. croutes of bread. 

Put the butter and water into a small stewpan, and bring to the boil ; then 
atir in enough crumbs to make a stiff paste ; add the yolk, grated Parmesan cheese, 
and seasoning. Stir over the fire until very hot. Cut some croutes of bread \ inch 
thick ; scoop out the centres ; fry them a golden colour in hot fat or butter. Fill with 
the mixture, and serve at once. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 to 8 croutes. 



SAVOURIES 



889 



3,034. SOUFFLE DE FROMAGE (CHEESE SOUFFLfi). 



I oz. butter. 
I oz. flour. 



i gill milk. 
2 eggs. 



1^ 0Z3. Pariuosan cheoso. 
salt. 



cayenne. 

C ramaquin cases. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan : when melted, mix in the flour, add the railkr 
and stir quickly over the fire until it thickens and leaves the sides of the pan clean - 
Take it off the fire and let cool a little, then beat in well one yolk of egg ; add the 
cheese (grated), and season with salt and cayenne. Whisk the two whites of eggs 
very stiffly, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Butter some little ramaquiri 
cases ; fill them three-parts full with the mixture ; put them on a baking-sheet, and 
bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. When done, di**! and send to table as soon 
as possible, as the}' begin to fall directly they are removed from the oven. 

Average cost, 5d. or 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 small 
paper cases. 

3,035. TARTELETTES DE FROMAGE 



J lb. rough puff-pastry 
(No. 2,184). 



1 egg- 

^ gill white sauce. 



(CHEESE TARTLETS). 

1 oz. Parmesan cayenne, 
cheese. salt. 

Line some small patty-pans with the puff-paste. Heat the sauce ; stir in the 
yolk of the egg ; take off the fire, and stir in the grated Parmesan cheese ; season 
with salt and cayenne. Whip the white of the egg very stiffly, and stir it lightly 




Fig. 247. — TARXELErxES db Fbouagu. 



into the rest of the ingredients ; fill the lined patty-pans with this mixture ; put 
them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When 
done, turn them out of the tins, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Sufficient for 7 tartlets. 

3,036. CROOtES DE MERLUCHE FUM£E (CROOtES OF DRIED HADDOCK). 

1 dessertspoonful capers, 
chopped parsley, 
cayenne pepper. 

Cook the haddock, take awaj' all skin and bone, mince the flesh finely ; chop the 

/ capers. Melt the butter ; put in the fish, capers, and cayenne ; mix well, then add 

the cream and anchovy essence ; stir all well together over the fire until hot. Put^ 

this mixture on croutes of bread ; pile it up high in pyramid shape ; decorate them ' 

with chopped white of egg, sieved yolk, and chopped parsley. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 to 8 croutes. » 



half a dried haddock. 

1 oz. butter. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 



croutes of fried bread. 

1 tablespoonful cream. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. 



*, 



CHAPTER XXXII 

PRESERVES, JELLIES, MARMALADE, ETC. 

The secret of making jam to keep without, in more or less time, fermenting or 
getting mouldy is never to leave the preserving-pan for one moment from the 
commencement, and not to skim the fruit. Put, as a rule, 1 lb. of sugar to each 
1 lb. of fruit, and stir the mass well from the time it is put on the fire. As the scum 
rises, and when boihng has commenced, stir vigorously. After a time the scum 
begins to disappear, and the jam boils itself clear. When clear, and the jam 
thickens, take it off the fire and pour it into warmed jars. Jams made in this way 
will be bright and clear, even if it be a wet season, and will keep any length of 
time. 

Red-currant and raspberry jellies, if managed in the same way, will have the 
same success. Do not skim the jelly as the scum rises, but let it boil itself clear. 
Those who make jam will find this way of jam-making much better than the old- 
fashioned way of skimming off the sugar as it rises — for that is what it is — the jam 
will be a beautiful colour, thicker, and keep better than jam made in the ordinary 
way. Fifty minutes to one hour is ample time for preserving 10 lbs. of fruit, allowing 
twenty minutes for brisk boiling. 

3.037. ORANGE MARMALADE, (No. 1). 

12 Seville oranges. | 12 pints cold water. | 12 lbs. sugar. | 2 lemons. 

Cut the fruit across very thinly, both pulp and peel, only taking out the pips ; 
as the pips are removed, put them into a basin containing | pint of the water. 
Put the strips of pulp and peel into the 11^ pints of cold water ; let it stand for 
twenty-four hours, then put it into a preserving-pan and boil very slowly until 
tender — it will take about two or three hours — then add the sugar ; boil gently until 
it is clear and will jeUy. 

Average cost, 4s. Time to boil, without sugar, 2 to 3 hours ; when sugar is added, 
about 30 minutes. Seasonable, February and March. 

3.038. ORANGE MARMALADE, (No, 2). 
Seville oranges. j sugar. | water. 

Put the oranges whole into a preserving- pan, and boil until the oranges are 
soft. Then take them up, and l«t them get cold ; cut in halves, take out the insides, 
and put this into the water that the oranges were boiled in, allowing 1 quart to 
each pound of oranges. Scrape some of the skins as thin as possible ; cut them in 
thin strips. Let the water with the pulp boil for fifteen minutes, then strain through 
a hair sieve, and after that through a cloth ; return the liquid to the preserving-pan, 
and add 2 lbs. of sugar to each quart ; let it boil. Before the strips are added it 
must go off the boil a little ; boil until it jellies, stirring constantly. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable, February 
and March. 

890 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, MARMALADE, ETC. 891 

3,039. TANGERINE MARMALADE. 
30 tangerines. | 2 lemons. | water. | double the weight of oranges in sugar. 
Put the oranges whole into a preserving-pan ; add sufficient water to float them, 
and boil until soft. Take up the tangerines ; let them cool. Cut in halves ; take 
y out the pulp. Put this into the water the oranges were boiled in, allowing a quart 
for each pound of oranges ; put this on the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes ; strain 
through a hair sieve first and then through a cloth ; return the liquid to the pre- 
serving-pan, add the sugar, and bring to the boil. Have some of the peel cut in 
very thin strips ; add to the hquor ; boil for about half an hour, or until it jellies. 
Fill some jars, and, when cold, cover over. 

Average cost, Ss. Time required, 3 to 4 hours. Seasonable, December to 
February. 

3,040. RASPBERRY JAM. 
8 lbs. raspberries. | 6 lbs. sugar. 

Take the stalks off the raspberries ; break up the sugar into small pieces ; put 
this with the fruit into a preserving-pan ; let the sugar dissolve before the jam 
boils, then boil quickly for forty-five minutes to one hour. When done, pot and 
tie down in the usual way. 

Average cost, 3s. 8d. Time required, 45 minutes to 1 hour to boil. Seasonable, 
July and August. 

3,041. RASPBERRY AND RED-CURRANT JAM. 
4 lbs. raspberries. | 4 lbs. red currants. | 8 lbs. sugar. 

Strip the stalks from the red currants and raspberries ; weigh them after they 
are stalked, and take 1 lb. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Crush the sugar up into 
email pieces ; put it, with the fruit, into a preserving-pan ; bring to the boil as soon 
as the sugar melts, and boil quickly for about forty-five minutes, or longer ; stir 
all the time the jam is on the fire. When the scum disappears and the jam is clear, 
it is done, and can be removed from the fire. Pot and tie it down in the usual way. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. Time required, 45 minutes to 1 hour to boil. Season- 
able, July and August. 

3,042. WHOLE STRAWBERRY JAM. 
10 lbs. strawberries. | 7^ lbs. sugar. 
Take the stalks off the strawberries, weigh them, and take f lb. of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, and as soon as the juice begins 
to show, add the sugar, which should be crushed small. Bring to the boil, stirring 
carefully, so as not to break the strawberries ; boil for about one hour, or until it 
jellies when tested. When ready, put into pots, tie down when cold, and store in 
a dry place. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1 hour to boil. Seasonable, June and July. 

3,043. STRAWBERRY AND RED-CURRANT JAM. 
6 lbs. strawberries. | 3 lbs. red currants. | 8 lbs. sugar. 

Strip the red currants and strawberries from the stalks, weigh them, and to 
9 lbs. of fruit take 8 lbs. of sugar. Crush the sugar up small. Put the fruit and 
sugar together into a preserving-pan ; stir carefull3^ and bring to the boil slowly, 
60 that the sugar is melted before boiling-point is reached ; then boil quickly for 
three-quarters to one hour, or until it jellies when tested in the usual way. Put 
into pots, tie down when cold, and store in a dry place. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, 45 minutes to 1 hour to boil. Seasonable 
in July. 



892 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

3,044. DAMSON JAM. 
8 lbs. damsons (stoned). | 8 lbs. sugar. 

Split the damsons ; take out the stones, and then weigh the fruit. Use an 
equal weight of sugar after the damsons are stoned. Put the damsons into a pre- 
, serving-pan ; break up the sugar small, and add it to the fruit ; put the pan 
on the fire and bring it to the boil slowly, so that the sugar is all melted before it 
begins to boil, then boil i-t quickly for about forty to sixty minutes. To tell whether 
it is done sufficiently, put a little on a plate, and if it sets, it is ready. Take the pan 
oflE the fire, and as soon as it is cool enough, put it into pots, and, when cold, tie 
down, and store in a dry place. 

Average cost, 2s. 8d. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable, September and 
October. 

3,045. VICTORIA PLUM JAM. 
6 lbs. Victoria plums. | 6 lbs. sugar. 

Wipe the plums, slit them, and take out the stones ; weigh them, and take 
1 lb. of sugar to each pound of stoned plums. Put the plums and the sugar, which 
should be broken up small, into a preserving-pan ; bring slowly to the boil, so that 
the sugar is dissolved by the time it boils ; keep well stirred while cooking. Boil 
for about one hour or until it jellies when dropped on to a plate. Pot the jam in 
the usual way, and store in a dry place. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1^ hours. Seasonable in September. 

3,046. BLACKBERRY JAM. 
8 lbs. blackberries. | 6 lbs. sugar. 

The fruit should be picked on a dry day. Take off the stalks, and go over tho 
fruit carefully. See that it is dry and ripe ; then weigh it, and to each pound of 
fruit take | lb. of preserving sugar, which should be crushed small. Put the fruit 
and sugar into a preserving-pan together ; place the pan by the side of the fire, so 
as to melt the sugar. As soon as the sugar is dissolved, let it come to the boil, 
stirring all the time ; simmer until the jam sets when a little is put on a cold plate ; 
it will take from three-quarters to one hour. Stir all the time, but do not skim. 
When done, put into jars, tie down when cold, and store in a dry place. 

Average cost, 3s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable in October. 

3,047. BLACKBERRY AND APPLE JAM. 
6 lbs. blackberries. | 3 lbs. cooking apples. | 9 lbs. sugar. 

Peel the aj^les, cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and chop them coarsely. 
Take off the stalks of the blackberries, put them into a preserving-pan with the 
-chopped apples and the sugar, which should be broken up small ; place the pan on 
a very slow fire to melt the sugar, then bring to boiling-point, stirring all the time ; 
simmer untQ the jam sets when a little is put on a cold plate. It wUl take about 
one hour. When done, put into jars, and tie down when cold. 

Average cost, if blackberries are bought, 4s. Time required, 1^ hours. Season- 
able, September and October. 

3,048. COMPOSITE JAM. 
2 lbs. gooseberries. | \\ lbs. raspberries. | 1^ lbs. red currants. ( 5 lbs. sugar. 
Prepare the fruit, take the stalks off the raspberries and currants ; top and tail 
the gooseberries ; weigh them, and to each pound of fruit take 1 lb. of sugar, broken 
up small. Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving- pan together ; place the pan 
■on a slow fire until the sugar is melted, then stir constantly until it boils, and boil 
for about one hour, stirring all the time. Test it in the usual way, by putting a 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, MARMALADE, ETC. 893 

little on a cold plate. If it sets, it is cooked sufficiently. Put into pots, and, when 
cold, tie down, and store in a dry place. 

All kinds of mixed jams can be made by putting together different kinds of 
fruit. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, about 1 hour after it comes to the boil. 
Seasonable, July. 

3,0i9. PLUM AND DAMSON JAM. 

4 lbs. plums. I 4 lbs. damsons. | 8 lbs. preserving sugar. | J pint water. 
Stone the plums and damsons ; put them into a preserving-pan. with the water 
and the sugar broken up small. Place the pan on a slow fire ; stir until the sugar 
is melted, then bring to the boil, and cook for about three-quarters of an hour, or 
until the jam sets when tested. Take it off the fire, and add some of the kernes 
from the plum-stones. The jam must be kept well stirred whilst boiling. Pot 
the jam, and, when cold, cover, and tie down. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 45 minutes to boil. Seasonable, September 
and October. 

3,050. PLUM AND PEAR JAM. 
4 lbs. plums. I 4 lbs. ripe pears. | 1 teaspoonful ground cloves. | 4 lbs. sugar. | J pint water. 
Peel the plums, take out the stones, weigh the fruit, peel and core the pears, 
cut them up, and weigh. To 4 lbs. of plums and the same weight of pears allow 
4 lbs. of sugar ; put all together into a preserving-pan with the ^ pint of water 
and the cloves. Boil all together untU weU reduced and until it sets. Fill into jars 
and cover down wl\en cold. 

3,051. PEAR JAM 
6 lbs. ripe pears. | 6 lbs. loaf sugar. | 1 quart warter. 

Peel the pears, cut in quarters and take out the cores, then put them into a jar. 
Stand the j^r in a saucepan of boiling water and keep the water boiling over the 
fire iintil the pears are soft"! Turn them into a preserving- pan, and add to them a 
Byrup made with the sugar and water. Mix the fruit and syrup together, and stir 
over the fire for twenty minutes. When done, turn the preserve into jars, and 
cover when cold. 

3,052. PINEAPPLE JAM. 
1 pineapple, fresh or preserved. | an equal weight of sugar. | lemon -rind. 

Remove all the eyes carefully from the pineapple and then out it into ^-inch dice. 
Weigh, and take an equal weight of sugar. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan 
oyer the fire until it gets warm and the juice comes out, then add the sugar gradually, 
jprinkling it in in spoonfuls, stirring gently until the sugar melts. Boil the whole 
over a steady slow ^le for about two hours or untU the preserve looks a transparent 
amber colour. Then add a little grated lemon-rind to flavour it. When the pre- 
serve is ready, let it cool, then bottle, and cover it down securely. 

3,053. QUINCE JAM. 

6 large quinces. | syrup. 

BoC the quinces in cold water until tender (save the hquor). Next day, peel 
and cut in quarters, saving all the insides and peel. Pass all the good pieces 
through a wire sieve. Make a syrup with the liquor that the quinces were boiled 
in, allowing 1 lb. of sugar to ^ pint of water ; add the fruit, and boil until it sets. 

3,054. RHUBARB AND ORANGE JAM. 

1 quart rhubarb. | 6 Seville oranges. | 6J lbs. loaf sugar. 

Peel and cut the rhubarb into fine pieces. Peel the oranges, remove as much 
of the white pith as possible ; shce the pulp thinly, take out the pips. Put the 
rhubarb and the pulp of the oranges with half the rind cut into thin strips, into a 



894 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

preserving-pan ; put on the fire and bring to the boil ; add the sugar, broken up 
small ; stir altogether over the fire until the jam in done — about three-quarters of 
an hour. When ready, put into pots and tie down. This jam will resemble Scotch 
marmalade. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. Time required, 1|- hours. Seasonable, February and March. 

''"' 3,055. CHERRY JAM. \ 

6 lbs. cherries. | 3 lbs. sugar. 

Stone and weigh the cherries ; boil them over a quick fire for about one hour 
(they should be stirred frequently) ; add the sugar, and boil quickly for twenty 
minutes. Some of the kernels of part of the cherries may be added to the jam a 
few minutes before it is taken off the fire. 

Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required after stoning, 1 hour and 20 minutes- 
Seasonable, June and July. 

3.056. DRIED APRICOT JAM. 

1 lb. dried apricots. | 3 pints cold water. | 2\ lbs. sugar. 

Wash the apricots, put them into a basin, pour the cold water over them, and 
let them soak all night. Put them and the water they were soaked in into a pre- 
serving-pan ; boil until tender, then add the sugar, and boil twenty minutes longer. 

Average cost, Is. 3d. Time required, about 1 hour and 20 minutes. Seasonable 
always. Sufficient for 6 lbs. of jam. 

3.057. PEACH MARMALADE. 

4 lbs. ripe peaches. | 2J lbs. sugar. | juice of 2 lemons. 

Peel the peaches ; take out the stones, and weigh. Put them into a preserving- 
pan, and boil quickly for three-quarters of an hour, then rub the fruit through a 
sieve. Return it to the pan ; add the sugar, and, as soon as it is melted, bring to 
the boil and cook quickly for two minutes, then put in some of the peach kernels 
and cook for five minutes longer. Add the juice of the lemons, and cook five 
minutes longer. Put the marmalade into pots, cover down, and store away. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, to cook peaches, 45 minutes ; after 
different ingredients are added, 12 minutes. Seasonable, August to October. 

3,058. CARROT JAM. 

carrots. | sugar. | lemons. | brandy. 

Thoroughly wash some carrots, cut off all the red part, put into a pan with a 
little water, and boil until it is quite soft. Drain them, and then rub through a 
fine sieVe. Weigh this puree ; put it into a preserving-pan, with f lb. sugar to each 
pound of pulp ; add the juice of half a lemon to each pound. Stir this over the fire ; 
let it come to the boil, and then simmer for about fifteen minutes, or until it will 
Bet. Remove from the fii-e, stir in \ gill of brandy, let it cool a little, then fill it 
into jars, and, when quite cold, tie them down. 

Seasonable in the summer. 

3,059. VEGETABLE-MARROW JAM, (No. 1). 
vegetable marrows. | sugar. | lemons. ( ginger. 
Peel the marrows very thinly ; cut them in small pieces, removing all the seeds. 
Weigh the pieces of marrow, and allow 1 lb. of loaf or preserving sugar, one lemon, 
and one dessertspoonful of ground ginger to each pound of marrow. Put the 
marrow and sugar into a preserving-pan and cook over a slow fire until it becomes 
a pulp, then add the ginger, the juice of the lemons, and the rinds chopped finely ; 
stir this over the fire until it is the right consistency — it will probably take from 



V 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, MARMALADE, ETC. 895 

half to three-quarters of an hour after it begins to boil. When it is cooked suffi- 
ciently, draw it off the fire and let it cool a little, then fill it into jam-jars. When 
it is quite cold, tie it down and put aside in a dry place. 
Seasonable in the summer. 

3,060. VEGETABLE-MARROW JAM, (No. 2). 
vegetable marrows. | sugar. | lemon. 

Peel the marrows very thinly ; remove the seeds, and cut the marrow in neat 
pieces, about 1 inch square. Weigh them, and allow an equal weight of sugar ; 
put them into a preserving-pan, with the juice of one lemon to each pound of 
marrow. Stir this very gently over a slow fire until the sugar is melted, then let 
it cook gently until the vegetable marrow is transparent. Care must be taken in 
making this jam that the pieces of marrow do not get broken. When the jam has 
boiled sufficiently (this will take about one hour) draw it to the side of the fire and 
let it cool a little before putting into the jam-jars ; when quite cold, cover the jars and 
put aside in a cool, dry place. Ginger can be used instead of lemon to flavour this jam. 

Seasonable in the summer. 

3,061. RHUBARB JAM. 

6 lbs. rhubarb. | 6 lbs. sugar. | rind and juice of 2 lemons. 

Wipe the rhubarb, cut it into pieces, put it into a preserving-pan, with the 

sugar and very thinly peeled rind of the lemons ; bring to the boil slowly, then boU 

quickly for about half an hour, stirring it constantly ; add the lemon- juice just 

before removing it from the fire. 

Average cost, Is. 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, April to July. 

3,062. GREEN-GOOSEBERRY JAM. 
6 lbs. green gooseberries. | 6 lbs. sugar. 

Pick the stalks and tops ofE the fruit, put it into a preserving-pan, with | pint of 
water, to prevent it burning ; bring to the boil, then add the sugar, and boil 
quickly for about one hour. It must be constantly stirred. Test it by putting a 
little on a plate ; if it jellies when cold, it is cooked sufficiently. Fill into jars, tie 
them down when cold, and put away in a dry place. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required. 2 hours. Seasonable, May and June, 

3,063. TOMATO JAM. 
6 lbs. tomatoes. | 4 lbs. sugar. | 2 lemons. 
Peel the tomatoes. This is best done by plunging the fruit into boiling water 
for a minute ; the skin then can be removed quite easily. Cut them in halves ; 
take out the seeds. Put the tomatoes in a preserving-pan ; add the sugar to them ; 
add the thinly-peeled rind of two lemons and the juice. Boil altogether slowly 
until quite smooth. When it is thick, put it into pots, and, when cold, cover down 
and put away in a dry place. 

Average cost, 3s. 2d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable all the year. 

3,064. GREEN-MARROW JAM. 
2 marrows. | sugar. | lemon-rind. | ginger. | lemon -juice. 
Peel the marrows, cut them in quarters and remove the seeds ; cut them into 
thin shces. Weigh the marrow, and to every pound take | lb. of sugar. Arrange 
the fruit in layers in a large basin ; between each layer put the sugar, the thinly- 
peeled rind of two lemons and the juice. Let this stand all night. Next day put 
it into a preserving-pan and boil for about one hour. When ready, add ginger to 
taste. Fill into pots, and tie down when cold ; store in a dry place. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 1 hour to boil. Seasonable, July to 
September. 

PT. xn. 67 



896 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

3,065. BLACK-CURRANT JELLY. 

8 lbs. black currants. | 7 lbs. sugar. 

Strip the currants from the stalks, put the berries into a preserving-pan, and stir 
them over the fire until the juice is extracted ; then strain ; weigh the juice, and 
boil it again for twenty minutes. At the end of that time add the sugar to it, and 
as soon as it is melted, bring to the boil, and boil for eight to ten minutes. Pot the 
jeUy, and, when cold, tie down, and store in a dry place. 

;N.B. — This jelly is rather sweet for some tastes ; if not liked so sweet, less sugar 
may be used. 

Average cost, 3s. lOd. Time required, 40 minutes. Seasonable, June and 
July. 

3,066. RASPBERRY JELLY. 
8 lbs. raspberries. | 5 lbs. sugar. 

Mash the fruit lightly, put it into a preserving-pan, and simmer gently for ten 
minutes. By this time the juice should have been extracted ; strain, and then 
return it to the preserving-pan, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes. Add the 
sugar, which should be at the rate of f lb. for each pound of juice. As soon as the 
sugar is melted, boil quickly for fifteen to twenty minutes ; keep it well stirred all 
the time it is on the fire. When it jellies, it is done. 

Average cost, 2s. 8d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, July and August. 

'^ i.|!®^^^-^s^*'- 3,067. CRAB- APPLE JELLY. 

1| lbs. crab-apples. | 1 pint water. | 10 ozs. sugar to each lb. of juice. 
Take off the stalks, weigh and wash the crab-apples, put them into a preserving- 
pan, and add the water ; boil gently until they are broken, but they must not be 
allowed to fall to a pulp. Strain through a cloth, and when the juice is quite 
transparent, weigh it ; put it into a clean pan, boil it quickly for ten minutes, then 
take it off the fire, and add the sugar. Stir until it is quite dissolved ; place the 
pan on the fire again, and boil from twelve to fifteen minutes. Pot it in the usual 

way. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required : boil crab-apples 12 to 18 minutes ; 
juice to be fast-boiled 10 minutes ; when sugar is added, 12 to 16 minutes. Sufl&cient 
to make 2 lbs. of jelly. 

3,068. QUINCE JELLY. 

Boil six large quinces in cold water till tender. To the water the quinces were 
boiled in add all the peel and insides of the quinces ; boil up together, then strain 
the liquor, and to each pint add 1 lb. of sugar. Boil together till it thickens like a 
jelly, then put it into pots. 

3,069. RED-CURRANT JELLY. 
3 lbs. red currants. | 3 lbs. sugar. 

Take the currants off the stalks (they should be perfectly ripe), put them into 
a preserving-pan ; add to them the sugar, and boil quickly for eight minutes. Keep 
it well stirred, then turn it on to a &ie hair sieve, and let the jelly run through. 
Put into jars, and place in a cool place until cold. The currants left in the sieve 
can be used for making jam. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable in July. 

3,070. APPLE JELLY. 
7 Iba. apples. | 4 lbs. sugar. | 7 pints water. | juice of 3 lemons. ( 

Peel the apples, core and weigh them, put them into a preserving-pan, with 
the water, and boil until it is soft, without becoming a thick pulp. Drain the 
liquor from the apples by passing it through a fine hair sieve ; then strain through 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, MARMALADE, ETC. 897 

ft cloth. When it is quite transparent, weigh, and reduce it by quickly boiling for 
twenty minutes ; draw it off the fire ; add the sugar, stir until melted, then replace 
it on the fire, and boil quickly for ten minutes, or until it jellies. To test it, put a 
little on a plate, and if it jellies when cold, it is ready. Just before removing from 
the fire add the juice of the lemons. 

Average cost, 2s. 3d. Time required, 1 hour. 

3,071. GREEN-GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

6 lbs. gooseberries. | 4 pints water. | sugar. 

Take the tops and stalks off the gooseberries. Put them into a preserving-pan, 
and add the water ; simmer until they are tender and broken up, then turn into a 
cloth and let the juice run through ; weigh it. Boil quickly for fifteen minutes ; 
then draw it off the fire and add an equal quantity of sugar ; bring to the boil, and 
boil for fifteen to twenty minutes, or until it jellies. Pour it into small jars. 

Average cost, about 2s. Time required, li hours. Seasonable, May and June. 

3,072. DAMSON CHEESE. 
12 quarts damsons. | loaf sugar. 

Put the damsons into an earthenware pan, sprinkle a little sugar on the top, to 
bring out the juice ; put them into the oven until soft ; then, while warm, press them 
through a hair sieve until all the pulp has been pressed out. Weigh or measure it, 
and to every quart of pulp put 1 lb. of loaf sugar ; boil it gently for one and a half 
hours, then pour it into moulds. Cover down when cold. 

Average cost, uncertain, as it depends on the amount of pulp after sieving. 
Time required, 2^ hours. Seasonable in October. 

3,073. GRAPE JELLY. 

black grapes. | sugar. 

Prepare some grapes by removing the stalks ; put the fruit into a preserving- 
pan, and stir them over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until the juice has been 
■extracted. Strain off the juice, pressing it slightly ; pass it through a fine hair 
sieve and through a piece of muslin. Weigh the juice and return it to the preserving- 
pan, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes. Draw it off the fire, and to each 
pound of juice add 14 ozs. of sugar, broken up. Let the sugar melt by the side of 
the fire, keeping it stirred meanwhile ; then put the pan again on the fire, and boil 
■quickly for fifteen minutes longer. It should be very clear when finished, and of a 
rose colour. Pot in the usual way. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 45 minutes. 

3,074. WHITE-CURRANT JELLY. 

6 lbs. picked white currants. | 6 lbs. sugar. 
Procure the currants freshly picked ; strip off the stalks, and weigh the fruit. To 
every pound of the prepared fruit allow 1 lb. good weight of pounded sugar. Put 
the currants and sugar into a preserving-pan ; stir until the sugar is melted ; bring 
to the boU, and cook quickly for six minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, allowing 
it to run without pressure. Put the jelly into small pots ; place them in a cool, dry 
.place, and, when cold, cover, and tie down in the usual way. 

Average cost, 4s. Time required, 6 minutes to boil. Seasonable, July and 
August. 

3,075. BLACKBERRY JELLY. 
6 lbs. blackberries. | sugar. | 1 pint water. 
Gather the blackberries in dry weather ; remove the stalks. Put the fruit into 
ft preserving- pan with the water ; put the pan on the fire, bring to the boil, and 
.cook gently for about twenty minutes, by which time the juice ought to be extracted ; 

57—2 



898 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

stir with a wooden spoon while boiling. Strain off the juice through a fine sieve, 
allowing it to run through without pressure. Measure this juice, and to every pint 
take 1 lb. of sugar ; put both into the preserving-pan ; bring to the boil slowly, so 
that tlie sugar is dissolved before boiling-point is reached ; then cook slowly for 
about twenty minutes, or until it jellies when put on to a cold plate. Fill up the 
jars, and cover and tie down when cold. 

Average cost, if blackberries have to be bought, 3s. Time required, 1 hour. 
Seasonable, September. 

3,076. TO BOTTLE FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. 

All fruit used for bottling must be ripe and perfectly sound. The best fruits 
for the purpose are raspberries, gooseberries, currants, blackberries, cherries, and 
all kinds of plums. 

The spirits are bottled either in syrup or water. If syrup is used, prepare it 
in the following way : To every quart of water take 1 lb. of sugar ; put these into a 
stewpan, bring to the boil, and let it boil for ten minutes, keeping it well skimmed 
during that time. Pour the syrup when done into a basin, and let it get quite cold 
before using. Cold water or syrup must always be used for filling the bottles, and 
the water in the pan they are boiled in must be cold. Hot bottles should not come 
in contact with cold water, or vice versa. Fill some wide-mouthed bottles with 
the fruit ; care must be taken not to bruise the fruit, but they should be packed 
closely. Pour in the syrup or water, then cork them lightly ; arrange the bottles 
in a large stewpan, but do not let them touch each other ; straw should be put 
round each bottle (the straw envelopes used for wine-bottles are excellent for this 
purpose). Fill the pan with cold water until it reaches the necks of the bottles. 
Put the pan on the fire and bring slowly to the boil ; boil for ten minutes, then 
fasten down the corks securely. When cold, test them, to see if there is any leakage. 
To do this, turn them upside down for a short time. If any of them leak, they 
must be returned to the pan to boil again for five minutes. The bottles should be 
sealed down so as to prevent any air from entering. Special bottles for preserving 
fruit are now made, with tight-fitting lids, and are quite satisfactory. 

3,077. BOTTLED GOOSEBERRIES. 

gooseberries. | water. 

Remove the tops and tails from the gooseberries, taking care that the fruit is 
in good condition. Put them into the bottles, and fill with cold water ; cork them 
Hghtly, and place in a large stewpan. Surround them with straw, and then fill 
with cold water to the necks of the bottles ; bring slowly to the boil ; boil for ten 
minutes, then fasten the corks securely, sealing them down to prevent leakage. 

Seasonable, May to July. 

3,078. BOTTLED APRICOTS. 

apricots. | syrup. 

Cut the apricots in halves and take out the stones. Scald the halves of apricots, 
and then remove the skins ; put the fruit in cold water to soak for a short time. 
Crack the stones, take out the kernels, blanch them, remove the skins, and then 
place in a cool oven to dry. Put the halves of apricots and the kernels into wide- 
mouthed bottles, packing them in tightly, but without damaging the fruit ; fill 
with syrup. Cork the bottles lightly ; place them in a large stewpan, pack them 
round with straw, and fiU the pan with cold water up to the necks of the bottles. 
Bring slowly to the boil, and let it boil for ten minutes. Fasten the corks tightly, 
sealing them down to prevent the air entering. 

Seasonable, August to October. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, MARMALADE, ETC, 899 

3,079. PRESERVED SIBERIAN CRAB-APPLES. 

2 lbs. Siberian crab-apples. | 2 lbs. loaf sugar. | 2 lemons. | 1 pint water. 

Put the sugar and water into a stewpan, with the lemon, cut in slices. Bring 
to the boO, and skim well. Let it simmer until it becomes a thin syrup ; draw the 
pan to one side, and leave until it is tepid. Wipe the crab-apples, and remove the 
stalks, then put them into the tepid syrup ; bring to the boil, and let them cook 
gently for ten minutes. Leave them in a basin until the next day, then return 
to the pan and boil until the apples look clear. Put them into wide-mouthed 
bottles, with a slice of the lemon on the top of each. Cork th'em lightly, and proceed 
to sterilize as above. 

Seasonable in September. 

3.080. BOTTLED PEAS. 

Obtain young, sound, and dry peas. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water ; 
season with a little salt. Put the peas into this and boil quickly for five minutes ; 
drain, put them under the tap, and wash in cold water ; drain well, spread them 
out, and let them get dry. Fill up some bottles with the peas, packing them down 
well ; add a little cold salted water ; place the corks on loosely ; stand the bottles 
in a deep stewpan ; place straw between each, so as to prevent contact with each 
other ; fill with cold water up to the necks of the bottles ; boil quickly for half an 
hour. At the end of that time fasten the corks in tightly, and leave the bottles 
in the pan until the water is cold. Then see that they are quite air-tight before 
putting away in a dry place. 

3.081. FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut the tops from the beans, string them, cut them in strips, or they can be 
left whole. Put them into a stewpan of fast-boiling water, slightly salted ; boil 
quickly for ten minutes. Wash them in cold water, drain, and let them get dry. 
Fill some wide-mouthed bottles with the beans, and proceed in the same way as 
for peas. 

3,082. IMITATION PRESERVED GINGER. 

carrots. ( essence of ginger. | lemons. | sugar. 

Wash the carrots thoroughly, cut them up into knotted shapes of different 
sizes and lengths, so as to represent green ginger. Put them into a saucepan of 
water and parboil them, taking care that they do not get very soft. Drain off the 
water, and then weigh the carrot. To each pound of carrots allow 1 lb. of sugar, 
^ pint of water, 1 tablespoonful of essence of ginger, and one lemon. Put the 
sugar, water, ginger, and lemon-juice into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and let 
it cook until it becomes a syrup. Put the pieces of carrot into this, and let it simmer 
gently for ten minutes ; draw it aside, and let it cool, then boil it up twice more 
in the same manner. Take it oil the fire, let it cool, then turn into jars, and. when 
quite cold, fasten the jars down tightly, and put in a dry place to keep until 
required. 

This preserve can also be made with vegetable marrows, and is prepared in a 
•imilar manner. 

Seasonable in the autumn. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

PICKLES, CHUTNEYS, SAUCES, ETC. 



2 lbs. apricot jam. 
J oz. dried chillies. 
1 oz. garlic. 



J oz. green ginger, or 1 oz. 

preserved ginger. 
1 lb. raisins. 



3,083. APRICOT-JAM CHUTNEY. 

^ oz. mustard-seed, 

bruised. 
1 quart vinegar. 

Materials are to be weighed after picking and cleaning. Stone the raisins and 
chop them, pound the ginger, garlic, and chillies separately into a paste, with a 
little vinegar. Mix well, and boil forty minutes, until the spoon sticks a little 
to it. When cold, put into bottles and use as wanted. 

If not liked too hot, half the quantity of chillies and mustard can be used. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 



2 lbs. ripe tomatoes. 
J lb. sour, green apples. 
I lb. sultana raisins. 



J teaspoonful ground 
ginger. 



^ oz. shallots. 

I oz. pounded garlio. 

I pint vinegar. 



3,084. TOMATO CHUTNEY. 

J lb. moist tugar. | 2 ozs. salt. 

J teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper. 

Stone the raisins, cut them up into small pieces ; pound the garUc and shallots 
separately in a mortar. Boil the apples to a pulp in half the vinegar ; boil the 
sugar in the other half, and skim it if necessary. Bake the tomatoes in rather a 
cool oven till the skins crack, then press them through a hair sieve ; mix this with 
the other ingredients, and boil together for twenty to thirty minutes. Pour it 
into a china basin, and, when quite cold, put it in wide-mouthed bottles, and place 
in a warm place for a month to mellow. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1| hours. Seasonable at all times. 



2 ozs. mustard. 
4 ozs. raisins. 
a little cayenne. 



2 ozs. ground ginger. 

4 tamarinds (these may be omitted). 

2 ozs. mustard-seeds. 



1 quart vinegar. 
12 sour apples. 

2 ozs. onions. 



3,085. APPLE CHUTNEY. 

J lb. moist sugar. 

1 oz. salt. 

2 ozs. garlio. 

Stone the raisins and chop finely ; wash and dry the mustard-seeds ; peel and 
chop the apples, and boil then in the vinegar untU they are quite soft. Mix all 
the ingredients in a basin, and then add the vinegar and the apples. Stir aU 
together, and bottle. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 40 minutes. 



3,086. GOOSEBERRY CHUTNEY. 



1 lb. green goose- 
berries. 



1 lb. rhubarb. 
1 lb. sultanas. 



2 ozs. ground ginger. 
1 quart vinegar. 



2 lbs. brown sugar. 
a little cayenne. 

Chop the sultanas finely ; chop the gooseberries and rhubarb ; cook them until 
quite soft in the vinegar. Put the chopped sultanas, sugar, cayenne, and ginger 
into a basin ; mix all together, then add the rhubarb, gooseberries, and vinegar. 
Stir all together, and bottle. 

Average cost. Is. 8d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, May and June. 

900 



PICKLES, CHUTNEYS, SAUCES, ETC. 901 

3,087. LADY'S DELIGHT PICKLE. 
2 lbs. apples. | 2 lbs. Spanish oniona. | vinegar. | salt. 
Peel the apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the cores ; chop them finely. 
Peel the onions, and chop. These two ingredients should be weighed after chopping, 
and equal quantities taken. Mix these two ingredients together, adding a httle 
salt ; put into a stone jar, pour over boiling vinegar, and when cold it is ready for 
use. Tie it down with a bladder or brown paper. The pickle is better for being 
kept a short time. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, October to 
March. 

3,088. PICKLED DAMSONS. 
4 lbs. damsons. | 2 lbs. sugar. | 1 J pints vinegar. | ^ oz. cloves. ] i oz. cinnamon. 
Wipe the damsons dry, and prick them all over with a needle. Put the damson? 
into jars ; boil the vinegar with the sugar, and pour it boiling over the damsons. 
Let them stand for twenty-tour hours, then heat up the vinegar again and let it 
stand twenty-four hours more. After that boil the damsons, vinegar, and spice 
together, but do not break the skins. Fill up the jars, tie down, and they are fit 
for use in six weeks. 

Average cost, Is. 6d. Time required, 2 days. Seasonable, September and 
October. 

3,089. PICKLED ONIONS, 
pickling onions. | vinegar. | allspice. | whole black pepper. 

Take off the skin of the onions — the first skin with the fingers and the second 
with a fruit knife (steel spoils the colour of the onions). As they are peeled, put 
them into the bottles they are to be kept in. To every quart of vinegar put two tea 
spoonfuls of allspice and two of black pepper. Pour over the onions sufficient cold 
vinegar, mixed with the proper proportion of spice, to cover the onions, dividing 
the spice equally between the bottles. Tie down securely, and put into a dry 
place. In a fortnight they will be fit to use. They should not be kept longer 
than six or eight months, as the onions are liable to become soft after that time. 

Seasonable, July and August. 

3.090. PICKLED GHERKINS. 

gherkins. | vinegar. | salt. | mace. | black peppercorns. | ginger. | bay-loaf. 

Put the gherkins into a cloth ; add to them about two tablespoonfuls of rough 
salt ; shake them about, so as to remove the outer skin, then remove them from the 
salt and put them into a basin. Take sufficient vinegar to cover the gherkins, 
and to every quart of vinegar add |^ oz. of b ack peppercorns, 1| ozs. of bruised 
ginger, two blades of mace, one or two bay-lleaves. Put these spices, with the 
vinegar, into a pan, and bring to the boil, and then pour it over the gherkins. The 
vinegar must be boiled up twice again, and poured again on the gherkins. When 
quite cold, put them into jars, cover down, and keep in a cool place. 

N.B. — If the vinegar is boiled in a copper saucepan, it will make the gherkins 
a beautiful colour, but poisonous. 

Average cost. Is. per pint. Time required, 2 hours. Seasonable in September. 

3.091. PICKLED ESCHALOTS. 

1 quart eschalots. | 1 quart vinegar. | ^ oz. salt. | 1 oz. whole white pepper. 

The shallots should be fresh gathered. Peel them, and as they are peeled put 
them into jars. Put the vinegar into a tin-lined saucepan, add the salt and pepper, 
and boil for five minutes. Pour this over the shallots. The vinegar should be boiled 
up again twice. When the shallots are quite cold, tie them down, and put them away 
for use. 

Average cost. Is. 6d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable, July to September. 



902 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

3,092. RED-CABBAGE PICKLE. 

1 red cabbage. | salt. | vinegar. | 1 oz. black pepper. 

Cut the cabbage in quarters, take out the centre stalk and remove the outer ^ 
leaves ; slice the rest of the cabbage into very fine strips, put into an earthenware 
pan or basin, and sprinkle plenty of salt over, and let it stand for twelve hours ; 
then press all moisture from it ; put into stone jars. Put the vinegar on to boil, 
with the peppercorns. Pour this over the cabbage as soon as it is cold. Cover 
down, and it is ready for use. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 12 hours to stand in salt ; 1| hours to boil 
vinegar and get cold. Seasonable in October. The cabbage will be better and crisper 
if the frost has touched it. 

3,093. BEETROOT PICKLE. 

1 beetroot. | vinegar. | salt. | 1 oz. peppercorns. 

Boil the beetroot, taking care not to break the skin — it will take from one and 
a half to two and a half hours to boil, according to size. Let the beetroot get quite 
cold, then peel and cut it in slices ; put these into jars. Take enough vinegar to 
cover ; boil it up with the peppercorns and a teaspoonful of salt. Let it get quite 
cold, then pour it over the beetroot. It will soon be ready for use. 

Average cost, 8d. Time required after the beetroot is boiled, about 1| hours 
to boil vinegar and to allow it to get cold. Seasonable at all times. 



2 blades mace. 
4 small onions. 



2 ozs. ginger. 
6 cloves. 



3,094. WALNUT PICKLE. 

100 walnuts, I 2 quarts water. j 2 quarts vinegar. 

12 ozs. salt. I 2 ozs. peppercorns. 1 1 oz. mustard-seed. 

The walnuts should be used at the end of June or July for this pickle, when a 
needle can pass easily through them. As soon as the shell can be felt the time tor 
pickling has passed. Make a brine with 2 quarts of water and 12 ozs. of salt. 
Pour the brine over the walnuts, and let them remain in it for six days. Then drain, 
and place them on dishes until they turn black ; this will take about twelve hours. 
Put the vinegar into a tin-lined stewpan, add to it the spice, the ginger bruised, 
the onions stuck with the cloves, and the mustard-seed. Boil all these together 
for about five minutes. Put the walnuts into jars, and pour the vinegar and spice 
over them hot. When cold, cover the jars securely, and store for four or five 
months in a dry place. 

Average cost of walnuts, Is. 6d. to 2s. per 100. Time required, 7 days. Season' 
able, end of June to middle of July. 

3,095. MIXED PICKLES. 



cauliflower. 


gherkins. 


salt. 


mace. 


cucumber. 


French beans. 


vinegar. 


peppercorns. 


button onions. 


chillies. 


cloves. 


1 oz. mustard-seed. 



Obtain equal quantities of the above vegetables. Cut up the cauliflower into 
sprigs, the cucumber into good-sized pieces, and leave the beans and gherkins 
whole ; peel the onions. Put all these vegetables, with the chillies, into a basin ov 
earthenware pan. Have ready some boiling water strongly seasoned with salt ; 
pour this over the vegetables, and allow them to stand in it until nearly cold, then 
drain the vegetables free from water, spread them out on sieves to dry for a couple 
of hours. Fill some jars with the vegetables. Boil the vinegar, with the spices 
and mustard-seed ; let it cool, then pour it over the vegetables. When cold, tie 
the jars down, and put away in a dry place. 

Average cost. Is. 9d. per quart. Time required, about 4 hours. Seasonable, 
August and September. 



PICKLES, CHUTNEYS, SAUCES, ETC, 903 

3.096. PICKLED EGGS. 

12 eggs. I vinegar. | 12 peppercorns. | 1 bay-leaf. | J oz. cloves. | 1 blade mace. | salt. 

Boil the eggs hard ; let them get perfectly cold, then take off the shells ; put the 
eggs into a jar. Boil tiie vinegar, sufficient to cover them, with the spice, pepper- 
corns, bay-leaf, and a little salt. Pour over the eggs, and, when cold, tie down 
the jar and keep for some weeks before using. To serve, cut the eggs in thin slices. 
This pickle makes an excellent hors d'oeuvre, and is also a splendid rehsh to eat with 
cold meat, etc. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour to make. - Seasonable at all times. 
Best made in the summer, when eggs are plentiful. 

3.097. MELON PICKLE. 

1 or 2 melons. | vinegar. | cloves. | 1 pint water. | 8 ozs. sugar. 
The melons should be used for this purpose three or four days before they are 
ripe. Peel off the outer rind, cut them in slices, and remove the seeds ; put them 
into a basin and cover with cold vinegar ; cover, and let them remain for nine or 
ten days. After that time, put them into a stewpan, cover with fresh cold vinegar, 
put on the fire, and simmer gently until tender. Drain, and put the slices on to a ^ 
sieve. When they are cold, put two cloves into each slice ; put the slices into jars, 
and cover with cold syrup made with 8 ozs. of sugar and 1 pint of water boiled 
quickly together for about fifteen minutes. In about seven or eight days pour 
away the syrup. Boil for a few minutes sufficient vinegar to cover the melon, 
then pour over the slices when the vinegar is quite cold. Cover down, and keep 
for a month before using. This pickle is served generally with venison, roast mutton, 
and hare, in place of red-currant jelly. 

3,098. TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

tarragon. | vinegar. 

Pick the tarragon on a dry day ; strip the leaves from the stalks, and fill some 
bottles up to the neck with the leaves, slightly bruised. Cover with vinegar ; 
tie down the mouths of the bottles securely, and let them remain for two months. 
After that time strain the vinegar through muslin until it is clear. Bottle it, and 
cork down well. Store the vinegar in a dry place. 

Time required, about 2 months. Seasonable, late in July or early in August. 
Should be gathered just before it flowers. 

3,099. CHILLI VINEGAR. 
J oz. chillies. | 1 quart vinegar. 

To make the chilli vinegar for the tomato sauce, put the chillies into a saucepan, 
with the vinegar, and boil for a few minutes. It not sufficiently strong, add a 
little cayeime. Strain and use. 

This vinegar can be made also for other purposes by putting* the chillies into a 
large jar, pouring on the vinegar, and letting it stand for a fortnight. Strain into 
bottles, cork down tightly, and use as wanted. 

Average cost, uncertain. 

3,100. PICKLED NASTURTIUM-SEEDS. 



1 quart green nasturtium-seeds. 1 quart vinegar 

1 oz. salt. 



J oz. mace. 
a few cloves. 



1 shallot. 

Put the seeds into a basin, cover them with strong salt and water. Keep them 
in this for one week, changing the brine-water each day. At the end of that time 
strain off the salt water, and wash the seeds thoroughly in several changes of fresh 
water ; then drain t^em and dry them in a cloth ; put the seeds into pickle-jars. 



904 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

Put the vinegar, salt, mace, cloves, and the chopped shallot into a saucepan ; bring 
this to the boil, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes ; skim it, and let it cool a little. 
Pour this liquid over the nasturtium-seed, let it get quite cold, and then tie down 
with thick paper. The pickle will be ready for use in a few days. 
Seasonable in the early summer. 



3,101. TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 quart chilli 
vinegar. 



1 oz. shallots. I 3 lemons. 
J oz. salt. I J lb. apples. 



1 lb. tomatoes. 
1 oz. garlic. 

Take the tomatoes when quite ripe, bake them in the oven untU tender, then 
rub through a sieve. Cut the shallots and garlic ; put these into a stewpan, with 
the sieved tomato, the vinegar, salt, and the apples previously baked and rubbed 
through a sieve. BoU all together until tender ; rub through a hair sieve, then add 
the juice of the lemons ; boil again until it is the thickness of cream. Let it stand 
until cold, then bottle it. Some people like the addition of sugar ; this should be 
added and boiled with the other ingredients. 

Average cost, Is. 9d. Time required, 1 hour. Seasonable aU the year. 

3,102. PICKLED CAULIFLOWERS. 
1 cauliflower. | vinegar. [ mace. | peppercorns. 
Break the cauliflower into small sprigs, put them into a pan of strong salt and 
water, and leave them to soak all night ; then boil for five to ten minutes in salted 
water ; drain them, and put aside to cool. Put them into pickle-jars, and then 
boil some vinegar in a saucepan, with a few peppercorns and a piece of mace. 
Pour this over the cauliflower, and, when cold, cover with thick paper. The pickle 
will be ready in a few days. 

3,103. LEMON PICKLE. 



6 lemons. 
1 lb. salt. 



10 shallots. 

2 ozs. horseradish. 



J oz. cloves. \ oz. nutmeg. 



4 oz. mace. 



cavenne. 



2 ozs. flour of mustard. 
2 quarts vinegar. 



1 

4 

Wipe the lemons, and cut each into eight pieces ; put these into a stone jar ; 
put on them the salt, the shallots, and horseradish thinly sliced, the spices, mustard, 
and a little cayenne. Pour the vinegar over, and place the jar in a pan of boiling 
water, and let it boil for fifteen minutes ; keep the jar in a warm place, and stir it 
daily for six weeks, keeping it closely covered. At the end of that time pour off 
the clear liquor and put it into small bottles. The remainder of the lemon can also 
be used as a pickle. 

3,104. LEMON EXTRACT. 
4 lemons. | 1 pint brandy or whisky. 

Peel the lemons very thinly, taking care that not a particle of the white pith 
is removed. Put the peel into a bottle, pour the spirit on to it, and cork it up 
tightly. Shake the bottle every day for the first two weeks, then occasionally for 
four weeks longer. This extract is good for flavouring sauces, puddings, cakes, etc., 
and will keep a very long time. 

3,105. PICKLE FOR BEEF, TONGUE, ETC. 

2 lbs. common salt. \ lb. salt pnmolla. 2 lbs. coarse brown sugar (foofc'sugar). 

2 lbs. bay-salt. \ lb. saltpetre. 2 gallons hard water. 

Dissolve all the above ingredients in the water. The tongues or beet should bo 
rubbed with salt each day for two or three days before being put into the pickle ; 
they will be fit for use in three or four weeks. The brisket of beef is often pickled 
in this way, boiled till the bones can be removed easily, and then pressed under 
weights until quite cold. 




> 






(J 

o 



906 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

may be added, if liked. Rub the mixture, after being well pounded, through a wire 
sieve ; press it into smcall pots or jars, cover them with clarified butter or lard, and 
put in a cool place until required for use. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 minutes. Seasonable at all times. 



3,112. POTTED HAM. 



1 lb. cooked ham. 

2 ozs. butter or fat from the ham. 



clarified butter (No. 199) 
or lard. 



a little made mustard, 
pinch of cayenne. 

Cut 1 lb. of the remains of cold, cooked ham into small pieces ; put it into a 
mortar, with 4 ozs. of the fat, or, if only lean is used, 2 ozs. of butter ; pound 
thoroughly together ; season to taste with a little made mustard and a tiny pinch of 
cayenne ; rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Press the meat into small jars or 
pots ; cover with clarified butter or lard. 

Average cost, uncertain. Time required, 20 minutes. 



3,113. POTTED PHEASANT. 



1 pheasant. 



1 glass sherry. \ bay-leaf. 



2 saallots. 



1 quart 
stock. 



sprig of thyme. 
4 ozs. butter. 



salt, 
cayenne. 



\ pint sherry, 
piach of cayenne. 
\ pint stock. 



Roast the pheasant, cut away all the meat from the bones ; put the latter into 
a etewpan, with the shallots, sherry, bay-leaf, thyme, and stock ; boil this until it 
becomes a glaze, then strain. Chop the pheasant-meat, first removing all skin and 
sinew ; then put it into a mortar and pound until it becomes a smooth paste ; add 
the glaze and the butter ; pound all together ; season to taste with salt and cayenne. 
Press this mixture into small pots, cover with clarified butter, and use as required. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. Time required, \\ hours. Seasonable, October to 

February. 

3,114. POTTED HARE. 

half a hare. 1 bay -leaf. 12 peppercorns. 

1 lb. streaky 6 cloves. salt. 

bacon. 1 blade mace. sprig of thyme. 

Cut the hare into joints ; slice the bacon into dice ; fry the latter in a stewpan, 
then add the joints of hare, and fry them with the bacon ; add the spice, the bay- 
leaf, thyme, sherry, stock, and salt ; cover with the lid, and put the pan in the oven 
to simmer gently for about one hour. Then take up the hare ; take all the meat 
off the bones, cut up the flesh in small pieces, put it into a mortar, and pound. 
Add the bacon and the grease from the liquor ; pound this all well together to a 
smooth paste, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin and 
mix to it the liquor from the hare ; season to taste. Fill some jam-jars with this 
mixture, cover them with a paste of flour and water ; put these in a deep baking-tin, 
with a Uttle water at the bottom. Put into the oven for about one hour, then take , 
them up, remove the paste, press the meat down, and cover with clarified butter 
or lard, so as to completely cover the meat. As soon as cold, cover down with 
white paper ; put the jars in a cool place, and use as required. This potted meat 
will keep good for months. Any kind of game or meats can be prepared in the 
same way. 

Average cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. Time required, 2 to 2\ hours. Seasonable, September 
to February. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

CUPS, ICED DRINKS, LIQUEURS, ETC. 



1 bottle clarot. 

1 liqueur glass of curagoa. 

J wineglassful liqueur brandy. 



3 tablespoonfuls sifted sugar. 

2 lbs. ice. 

2 or 3 slices cucumber. 



3,115. CLARET CUP. 

peel of ^ a lemon. 
2 bottles lemonade. 
2 bottles soda-water. 

Mix all these ingredients together, except the sugar ; remove the cucumber after 
it has been with the other ingredients ten minutes. Just before serving, stir the 
sugar in gently. This will be found to give a smoothness which cannot be obtained 
in any other way. 

Average cost, Ss., without the brandy. Time required, 20 minutes. 



3,116. HOCK CUP. 

1 tablespoonful castor 
sugar. 

^lix all these ingredients together, adding the sugar last. 
Average cost, 2s. 6d. Time required, 20 minutes. 



1 bottle hock. 

1 bottle soda-water. 



4 lbs. ice, 

3 large slices pineapple. 



1 -white of egg. 
^ lb. pounded ice. 



1 wineglass " Old Tom 
(gin). 



3,117. SILVER FIZZ. 

1 tablespoonful sifted sugar. 
1 bottle soda-water. 

Mix all these ingredients together, adding the soda last, so as to make the whole 
into a froth. 

Average cost, 7d. Time required, 5 minutes. 



3,118. CHAMPAGNE CUP. 



1 bottle champagne. 

2 bottles soda-water. 
2 glasses brown sherry. 



1 small glass liqueur 

brandy, 
cucumber-peel. 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 small glass cura9oa. 

3 lbs. ice. 

All mixed together, the sugar to be stirred in last, and the cucumber removed 
after ten minutes. 

Average cost, about 8s. Time required, 10 minutes. 



3,119. ICED TEA AND LEMON. 

tea. I lemon. | sugar. | ice. 

Make some tea, and let it stand a few minutes ; pour it off the leaves ; stand it in a 

refrigerator for six hours. Serve in large china bowls, in which float sUces of lemon 

and lumps of ice. In serving, give a slice of lemon and a lump of ice to each person. 



3,120. GINGER BEER, 



4 lbs. lump sugar. 
i lb. ginger. 



2 ozs. cream of tartar. 
2 lemons. 



2 tablespoonfuls fresh brewers' yeast. 
4 gallons boiling water. 



Peel the lemons thinly, and put the peel into a large earthenware pan ; add the 
strained juice, the ginger bruised in a mortar, the sugar, and the cream of tartar ^ 
pour the water boiling on to these ingredients. When cool enough (lukewarm),' 

907 



^08 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

add the yeast, and leave until the next day. Strain it after skimming oS the 
yeast ; bottle it, and tie the corks down. The beer will be ready for use in two days. 
Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 dozen bottles. Time required, 4 days. 

3,121. WELSH NECTAR. 

2 lbs. loaf sugar. | 2 gallons water. | 1 lb. raisins. | 3 lemons. 

Boil the water, turn it into a large utensil, and let it stand till nearly cold ; then 

add to it the loaf sugar, raisins, the rind and juice of the lemons ; let all stand for 

four days, stirring it frequently, then strain through a cloth or sieve, and put into 

bottles. In a fortnight it will be ready for use. 

Average cost, lOd. Time required, 4 days to make, a fortnight to mature. 

3,122. CURACOA. 

2 quarts best white brandy. I 4 ozs. Seville orange-peel. | 2 lbs. brown sugar candy. 

Put these ingredients into a preserving-pan ; the orange-peel should be cut 
very thin. Bring to the boil and skim. Put all into a jar, and tie it down ; put the 
jar in a very warm place for two months, then strain into bottles carefully, . so as 
not to disturb the contents of the jar more than necessary, as there must be a sedi- 
ment, which makes the bottom of the liqueur rather less bright. 

Average cost, 2s., exclusive of brandy. Sufficient for 3 quarts. 

3,123. CURRANT WHISKY. 
2 quarts whisky. | 2^ quarts black currants. | 3 lbs. loaf sugar. 

Pick the currants, which should measure 2i quarts after being prepared- 
Pour half the whisky on the currants, and let them stand for forty-eight hours ; 
then the currants and whisky must be well mixed and mashed with the hands. 
Put the sugar and the remainder of the whisky into another vessel ; strain the 
currant-juice on the sugar and whisky ; mix well, and strain through a cloth or 
hair sieve. 

Average cost, 2s., exclusive of whisky. Seasonable, June and July. Sufficient 
for 3 or 4 quarts. 

3,124. CHERRY BRANDY, 
morello cherries. | best French brandy. | 3 ozs. sugar to each lb. of fruit. 

Wipe the cherries, which should be picked in dry weather. Fill a little more 
than half full some wide-necked bottles with the cherries ; put in the sugar in the 
proper proportion, and then pour over the brandy, filling the bottles. Cork the 
bottles and seal the tops. In two months the brandy will be ready for use. 

Average cost of cherries, lOd. per lb. Seasonable in July and August. 

3,125. CLARET FIZZ. 
1 wineglassful claret. | ice. | 1 bottle lemonade. 

Put the claret into a large glass,with a few small pieces of ice ; let it stand for 
* few minutes, then pour in the lemonade, and use immediately. 
Average cost, 4d. to 6d. 

3,126. MULLED CLARET. 

^ pint olaret. nutmeg. cinnamon. a little ground 

1 gill water. 3 cloves. 1 oz. sugar. ginger. 

Put the water into a saucepan, with the sugar, cloves, ginger, a small piece of 
cinnamon, and a grate of nutmeg. Place on the fire, bring to the boil, and let it 
Bimmer gently for a short time. Strain into another saucepan through a piece of 
fine muslin ; add claret, heat thoroughly, without boiling, and serve hot. 



CVPS, ICED DRINKS, LIQUEURS, ETC. 909 

3,127. SUMMER LEMONADE. 

1 lb. loaf sugar. | 1 quart water. | 1 oz. tartaric acid. | 30 drops lemon essence. 

Put the sugar and water into a saucepan ; bring to the boil, and let it cook for 

five minutes. Pour into a basin, and let it cool, then add the tartaric acid and 

lemon essence. Use half a wineglass at a time in a tumbler of cold water or claret 

and water. 

Average cost, 4d. 

3,128. DAMSON LIQUEUR. 

1 lb. damsons. | 1 lb. loaf sugar. | 1 quart unsweetened gin. 

Prick the damsons with a needle, put them into a large bottle or jar ; add the 
sugar ; pour the gin over them. Cork tightl_y, and it will be ready for use in three 
months ; during that time the bottle should be shaken occasionally. At the end 
of the three months strain off the liqueur and bottle it for use. 

Average cost, 5s. 6d. 

3,129. SLOE GIN. 
J lb. sloes. I 3 ozs. castor sugar. | 1 bottle unsweetened gin. | | oz. bitter almonds. 

Prick the sloes all over with a needle, put them into wide-necked bottles or a 
jar ; add the rest of the ingredients. It must stand for four or five weeks and be 
shaken up every day ; after that time strain off and bottle. It improves with 
keeping. 

Average cost, 3s. 3d. 

3,130. KERNEL BRANDY. 
kernels of plum-stones. | brandy. 

When making plum jam, take out the stones, crack them, and remove the 
kernels ; put these into bottles, and cover with brandy — the cheapest brandy will 
do for this purpose. Cover the bottles, and put aside for two months ; it will then 
be fit for use. This is excellent for flavouring puddings, sauces, eto. 

3,131. MINT JULEP. 

6 tender sprigs mint. 1 wineglassful brandy. I pounded ice. 

1 tablespoonful castor sugar. 1 wineglassfiil peach brandy. ' slice of pineapple. 

Put the mint into a tumbler ; add the sugar, and pour over the brandy and the 
peach brandy. Then fill the tumbler with pounded ice. Place on the top a thin 
slice of pineapple, and serve. 

3,132. SHERRY COBBLER. 

2 wineglassfulfl I J orange. J wineglassful Jamaica rum. 

sherry. | J wineglassful maraschino. crushed ice. 

Put the sherry into a pint tumbler ; add the maraschino and rum, and mix all 
well together. Cut the orange into thin slices ; put this on the top, fill up with 
crushed ice, as much as is required, and drink through straws. 

3,133. WHISKY SLING. 
1 wineglassful whisky. | milk. | ice. 
Put the whisky into a half-pint tumbler, fill up with milk ; add to this a piece of 
ice, and serve. 

3,134. SCOTCH WHISKY SMASH. 
1 wineglassful Scotch whisky, | ice. | 1 tablespoonful syrup. | Blice of lemoUr 
Put the whisky into a glass ; add the syrup and a thin shoe of lemon ; fill up with 
ice, and serve. 



^. 



910 TEE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

3.135. GIN SLING. 

1 wineglassful gin. I mint. I 1 teaspoonful sugar. I 1 bottle lemonade or sod»» 

lemon-peel. ' ice. | 1 liqueur-glassful of maraschino. | water. 

Put the gin, sugar, maraschino, a little grated lemon-rind, a few leaves of mint, 
and some crushed ice, in a jug ; mix all well together, and lastly add the bottle of 
lemonade or soda-water. 
Average cost, lOd. 

3.136. GIN SMASH. 

1 wineglassful gin. | ice. | 1 dessertspoonful water. | 1 orange. | 1 dessertspoonful sugar. 
Mix the sugar and water together ; add the gin ; fill up the glass with crushed 
lee ; stir it all together, and place a thin slice of lemon on the top. Serve with strawa 
Average cost, 6d. 

3.137. GINGERADE. 



1 quart water. 



bicarbonate of 
soda. 



IJ lbs. loaf sugar. 
2 ozs. ground ginger. ^ oz. citric acid. 

Put the water and ginger into a saucepan ; let it simmer for half an hour ; strain 
through a cloth into another saucepan ; add the sugar, and boil until it becomes a 
syrup, keeping it well skimmed. Put into a basin to cool, then add the citric acid. 
Use two tablespoonf uls in a tumbler of water with a saltspoonf ul of soda dissolved in it. 

Average cost, 6d. 

3,138. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

3 lbs. raspberries. | 1 quart white wine- | vinegar. | sugar. 

Take the stalks ofi the fruit ; put 1 lb. of the raspberries into a china bowl, and 
pour over them the vinegar. Let this stand until the next day, then strain the 
liquor and pour it on to 1 lb. of fresh raspberries. Leave until the next day, then 
proceed in the same way. Strain the liquor on to the third pound of raspberries. 
The next day strain, and then pass the liquor through a cloth, previously wetted 
with vinegar, to prevent waste. Measure the juice, and to every pint take 1 lb. 
of loaf sugar. Put these together into a preserving-pan ; stir it over the fire until 
the sugar is melted ; simmer gently for twenty minutes. It must do slowly, or it 
will become a jelly. Let the vmegar get cold, then bottle it. This is a most useful 
preparation, and should be always kept in a house. Not only is it a most refreshing 
beverage, but is of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. Mix a spoonful 
or two in a glass of water. No glazed or metal utensil should be used for it. 

Average cost, 2s. Time required, 3 days to stand ; 20 minutes to simmer. 
Seasonable, June and July. 

3,139. EFFERVESCING APRICOT DRINK. 

fresh apricots. | J lb. sugar. | 1 oz. tartaric acid. 

Cut some apricots in halves, remove the stones ; put the fruit in a mortar, and 
pound thoroughly. Put the pulp into a cloth and squeeze it until all the juice 
has been extracted. Put 1 pint of this into a stewpan, with the sugar and tartaric 
acid. Boil this until it becomes a thick syrup ; pour into bottles, taking care 
that they are not more than half full, and leave till cold ; then cork tightly, and 
put away till required. To use, put a small pinch of carbonate of soda in a tumbler, 
add I gill of the syrup, and fill with cold water. 

Seasonable, August to October. 

3,140. LEMON SQUASH. 
1 lemon. ( ice. | 1 dessertspoonful sugar. | soda-water. 

Put the sugar into a tumbler ; squeeze the juice of the lemon and add also. 
Break up some ice into small pieces ; put some of these into the lemon and sugar. 



1 tumbler Ice. 

2 bottles lemonade. 



CUPS, ICED DRINKS, LIQUEURS, ETC, 911 

and then fill with soda-water ; mix thoroughly, strain into another tumbler, and 
serve immediately. 

Average cost, 3d. Time required, a few minutes. Seasonable always. Sufficient 
for 1 person. 

3.141. PINEAPPLE RUM PUNCH. 

2 slices pineapple. 1 pint raspberry sjTup J glass cura9oa. 
i pint rum. (No. 3,144). 1 gill plain syrup. 

Cut two thin slices of pineapple ; put these at the bottom of a bowl, pour over 
the rum and the cura^oa, mix, and then add the two syrups. Put in the ice, which 
should be broken up, pour in the lemonade, and serve. 

3.142. CHERRY BRANDY FIZZ. 

1 wineglassful brandy. 1 teaspoonful peach 1 1 bottle soda-water, 
ice. brandy. I 1 dessertspoonful syrup. 

Put the syrup in a glass ; add the brandy and the peach brandy, put in a few 
lumps of ice, add a small bottle of soda-water, and the drink should be taken at 
once. 

3,143. CHERRY BOUNCE. 

1 lb. morello cherries. | 1 lb. black-heart cherries. | 1 pint whisky. | 3 ozs. sugar. 

Stone the morello cherries ; put them into a jar, with the blackhearts, crack the 
stones of the morellos, and take out the kernels, add these to the cherries, with 
the sugar, pour the whisky over. Cover the jar tightly, and let stand for at least 
six months ; it will then be ready to strain and bottle. The longer it is kept in 
the jar before bottling the better. 

3.144. RASPBERRY SYRUP, No. 1. 

2 lbs. raspberries. | 2 lbs. sugar. 

Pick the raspberries, mash them in a basin, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, 
then strain the juice through muslin. Put the juice into a pan, add the sugar, and 
melt it over the fire gradually, bring to the boil, then withdraw from the fire. When 
cold, put into bottles, and tie down securely. 

Average cost, Is. Seasonable, July and August. 

3.145. RASPBERRY SYRUP, No. 2. 

Fill a jar with raspberries ; cover them with vinegar, and let stand for three 
days, then pass the vinegar and as much of the fruit as possible through a hair sieve. 
Pour this liquor back into the jar, and fill up again with fresh raspberries ; let it 
stand for another three daj^s, then strain, and to every pint of liquor add 1^- lbs. of 
loaf sugar. Boil in a preserving-pan for twenty minutes after it comes to the boil. 
Care must be taken not to boil too quickly, or it will become a jelly. This is excellent 
to eat with light puddings. 

3,146. RASPBERRY-ACID DRINK, 
fi lbs. raspberries. | 1 oz. tartaric acid. ( 1 quart water. | sugar. 
Put the raspberries into a jar with the tartaric actd, which has been dissolved 
in the water ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, then strain the juice, taking care 
not to bruise the fruit. Measure the juice and put it into a jar. To every pint of 
juice add 1^ lbs. of powdered sugar ; stir it frequently, and when quite dissolved, 
put it into bottles. The bottles must be only half filled, and resined over ; the 
bottles are apt to fly if filled too full. Two tablespoon tuls put into a tumbler of 
water, with a pinch of carbonate of soda, makes a cooling and refreshing drink. 
PT. XII. 58 



912 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 

3,147. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

1 quart brandy. | blackborries. | loaf sugar. | water. | port wine. 
Put the brandy into a jar ; the brandy should only fill it one- third of its height, 
then fill it up with blackberries that have been stalked and picked over. Cover 
it, tie down tightly, and put it away for three months, then pour off the liquor 
through a hair sieve ; press the fruit well, so as to extract all the liquor. Measure 
it. and add | lb. of crushed loaf sugar to every quart, 1 pint of port-wine, and 1 pint 
of water. Strain all together through a cloth, then bottle it, cork it down well, 
and put aside for six or eight weeks before using. 

3.148. BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

ripe blackberries. | sugar. | water. 
Mash the fruit so as to extract the juice, then measure it, and to each quart of 
juice add a syrup. For this take 5 lbs. of sugar to 1| pints of water, boil, skim, 
and simmer for ten minutes, add the juice, boil up, then pass through a fine strainer 
or sieve. Bottle, cork tightly, and keep for use. 

3.149. STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

2 lbs. strawberries. | 2 lbs. sugar. 

Proceed in the same way as for raspberry syrup. Currant syrup can be made 
in the same way, 

3,150. PINEAPPLE SYRUP. 

rind of 1 large pineapple. | 1 quart water. | loaf sugar. 
Peel the pineapple thickly ; put it into a stone jar, boil the water, and pour 
it boiling over the pineapple, put aside, and let it stand for two days ; then strain 
the liquor, put it into a saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, just bring to 
the boil. When cold, pour it into bottles, and cork well. The drink will be ready 
for use in about a week. 

3,151. ORANGE SYRUP. 
6 oranges. | J oz. citric acid. | 3 lbs. sugar. | 2^ pints water. 

Peel three oranges very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the white pith ; 
put this rind into a stewpan with the water, place on the fire, and simmer for 
fifteen minutes, then add the strained juice of the six oranges, and simmer for 
fifteen minutes longer. Strain through a cloth, return it to the pan, add the 
sugar and citric acid, and boil gently again for five minutes. Let it get cold, and 
then bottle it. This syrup is very good, and wiU keep good a long time. Can be 
used with water or aerated water. 

Average cost, Is. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable, December to 
February. 

3.152. LEMON SYRUP. 

1 large lemon. | \ oz. citric acid. | 2 lbs. loaf sugar. | 1| pints water. 

Peel the rind very thinly, taking care not to remove any of the white part, or 
the syrup will be bitter. Put the rind into a stewpan with the water, and simmer 
for ten minutes ; then add the strained juice of the lemon, and simmer for another 
ten minutes ; strain through a cloth, return to the stewpan, add the sugar and jitrio 
acid, and simmer for a few minutes. Let it get cold, then bottle it. 

Average cost, 6d. Time required, 45 minutes. Seasonable at aU times. 

3.153. TO MAKE TEA. 

The quantity of tea to be used depends a great deal on the quality of the tea 
.•and the strength desired. A teaspoonful for each person and one for the pot is a 
very good rule, using less or more according to the kind of tea. One or two rules 



CUPS, ICED DUINKS, LIQUEURS, ETC. 913 

must be remembered in order to make good tea. The water should be boiling, and 
the tea made directly the water boils. If the v-ater is allowed to boil for any length 
of time, the water becomes hard, and some ot fhe gases which it contains pass off 
in steam, and in consequence the tea will not be as good and wholesome as it would 
otherwise be. Warm the teapot by rinsing it out with boiling water ; put in the 
tea. and pour over the boiling water ; let it infuse for three minutes, then use. Tea 
should always be freshly made. It is a bad plan to place the teapot on the hob to 
keep hot, as that extracts the tannin, which is injurious, and the longer it standa 
the more tannin is given out. Tea is an astringent, and has the property of harden- 
ing the food eaten with it, and thus interfering with digestion. For this reason it 
should not be ttiken with meat or other too solid food, or too soon after a heavy 
meal. 

3,154. COFFEE. 

Coffee is best when freshly roasted, and should be ground as wanted. Every 
house should be furnished with a small coffee-mill if coffee is much used. The 
coffee-beans after roa sting should be kept in air-tight canisters ; this also applies 
to ground coffee. The aroma of coffee is spoilt if exposed to the air. Coffee is often 
adulterated with chicory, some people thinking that the chicory improves and 
brings out the flavour of the coffee ; but although chicory is harmless in itself, it 
has not the stimulating and restorative properties that coffee has. If chicorj^ is 
used, it should be bought separately and mixed at home. The proper proportions 
of the two ingredients are ^ lb. of chicory to 1 lb. of coffee. There are many patent 
contrivances and pots for the making of coffee, but an earthenware jug is as good 
as anything for the purpose. To make the coffee, use 1 tablespoonful to each 
\ pint of water. Have the jug hot and dry ; put in the coffee, and pour over the 
boiling water ; cover it over, and let it stand on the side of the stove for about ten 
minutes, then pour some into a cup, pour it back again, let it stand a few minutes 
longer, in order that it may settle. It may then be gently strained into another 
jug or coffee-pot, and served. Hot milk should always be served with coffee, as 
it greatly improves the flavour. Cafe noir, served after dinner, should be very 
strong, and served without cream or milk. 

3,155. COCOA. 

Cocoa can be procured in different forms ; the cocoa-nibs are the purest form, 
and on that account preferred by many. To prepare the nibs they must be bruised 
and then boiled for three or four hours, and the fat as it floats skimmed off the 
top. Cocoa is often mixed with starch. This kind must be boiled either with 
water or milk, in order that the starch may be thoroughly cooked, which only takes 
place by boiling. If cocoa unmixed with starch is used, put two teaspoonfuls into 
a breakfast-cup, mix it to a paste with a little milk or water, then fill up the cup 
with boiling milk and water, mixed in equal proportions, stir while mixing. Sweeten 
to taste, and serve. 

8,156. CHOCOLATE. 

Grate 2 ozs. of chocolate ; put it into a saucepan with \ pint of water, boil it 
for about five minutes, until quite smooth, then add f pints of milk, boil for half 
a minute longer, stir well, and serve at once. 



58—2 



914 THE IDEAL COOKERY BOOK 



APPENDIX 



GATEAU VIOLETTE. 



6 eggs. 

6 0Z3. flour. 



\ teaspoonful baking-powder. 2 ozs. crystallized violets. angelica. 



water icing (No. 2,176). 



vanilla. 



6 ozs. sugar. 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; beat the yolks and sugar together 
until creamy. Crush half the violets small. Sieve the flour and baking-powder 
together, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir these Hghtly and 
quickly into the yolks and sugar. Add the crushed violets, turn the mixture into 
a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. When 
done, place the cake on a sieve to cool. Have ready some vanilla-flavoured water 
icing, and pour this over the cake. When the icing is nearly set decorate the top 
with bunches of crystaUized violets, stalks of angelica, and leaves to represent 
sprays. (See coloured plate.) 

Average cost, Is. 4d. Time required, 1| hours. 




_&) 
O 

> 

o 
«i 
w 

O 



INDEX 



Abricot, beignets d', 681 
Abricots a la Conde, 664 

a la Maintenon, pyramide 

d', 737 
a la royale, 736 
a la Sultane, 665 
au riz, 663 
Chartreuse d', 739 
creme d', 740 

Jklapie Louise, timbales d', 691 
petits bateaux d', 738 
petits choux d', 737 
soufiile d', 676 
tartelettes d', 739 
Agneau a la Constance, cotelettes 

d', 285 
a la duchesse, cotelettes d', 

178 
a la Duxelle, langues d', 181 
a la jardiniere, chaudfroid de 
cotelettes d', 286 
cotelettes d', 178 
a la macedoine, epigrammes 

d', 180 
a la Maltaise, cotlettes d', 176 
a la Massena, cotellettes d', 

176 
a la IVIirepoix, noisettes d',180 
a la Navarraise, cotelettes d', 

1 1 1 
a la Parma, cotelettes d', 179 
a la princesse, cotelettes d'. 

It I 
a la printanier, saute d', 178 
4 la St . Menehould, cotelettes 

d', 176 
a la Valois, noisettes d', 181 
a la Villeroy, cotelettes d',179 
au beurre noir, cotelettes d', 

175 
au concombre, cotelettes d', 

175 
au risotto, cotelettes d', 178 
aux fines herbes, cotelettes 
d', 175 
noisettes d', 180 
blanquette d', 179 
en chaudfroid, eotelettes d', 

285 
•prigrammes d', 180 
farci, gigot d', 380 
farcies a la Perigueux, cote- 
lettes d', 177 
froides k la Strasbourgeoise, 

cotelettes d', 286 



Aiguilles au Parmesan, 886 

a la tortue, 39 

a la Toulouse, 39 

k la Valencienne, 39 
Almond cheesecakes, 697 

icing, 636 

milk, 86 

pudding, baked, 638 

rings, 841 

souffle, 673 

sticks, 835 
Almonds, burnt, 633 

devilled, 882 , 

pralined, 633 

salted, 882 
Aloyau de bceuf a la proven^ale, 

374 
Amandes a la diable, 882 

salees, 882 

souffle aux, 673 
Ananas a la creme, flan d', 747 

a la Creole, 670 

a la Frankfort, 748 

a la neige, 766 

beignets d', 681 

Charlotte d', 756 

creme d', 748 

souffle a r, 675 
Anchois a la Colmar, croAtes d', 
876 

allumettes d', 881 

aux tomates, croutes d', 866 

canapes d', 53 

eclairs d', 874 

en surprise, 870 

farcis, 873 

frits, 871 

medaillons d', 47 

pailles aux, 882 

paupiettes, d' 47 

rouilles d', 866 
Anchovies, fried, 871, 873 

rolls of, 47 

surprise, 871 
Anchovy canapes, 53 

cheese straws, 882 

croutes, 865 

eclairs, 874 

eggs, 865 

roUs, 866 

toast with tomatoes, 866 
Andouillettes de volaillo, 239 
Angels on horseback, 864 
Anguille a la Hollandaise, 138 

a la royale, 138 

015 



Anguille, matelote d', 138 
Apple amber, 639 

and Florador pudding, 662 

and rice meringue, 6Gfi 

Charlotte, 691 

cheesecakes, 699 

custard tarts, 704 

dumplings, baked, 694 
boiled, 694 

fritters, 680 

jellies, 620, 708 

pudding, baked, 694 
grated, 662 

souffle, 676 

tart, 694 

German, 696 

timbale, queen style, 731 
Apples, American style, 660 

boiled custard and stewed, 
626 

casserole of, 659 

Conde style, 661 

Florentine style, 661, 728 

meringued, 663 

Moscovite style, 729 

omelet with, 689 

Parisian style, 660 

Portuguese st3'le, 661 

royal style, 727 

Russian style, 659 

Viennoise style, 729 

with butter, 660 

with cream, 728 
Apricot bombe, 777 

Chartreuse, 739 

cream, 740 

d'artois of, 705 

fritters, 681 

pudding, 639 

pyramid, Maintenon style, 
737 

souffle, 676, 760 

tart, 705 

tartlets, 739 
Apricots, bottled, 898 

Conde style, 664 

little boats of, 738 

Marie Louise style, timbalev 
of, 691 

royal style, 736 

Sultan style, 665 

with rice, 663 
Arrowroot, 619 

drink with black-currant 
jam, 632 



916 



INDEX 



Arrowroot pudding, 624 
with port-wine, 619 
Artichauts a la Barigoule, 425 
a la Duxelle, fonds d', 428 
a I'Espagnole, beignets d',427 
a la Florentine, fonds d', 430 
k la Italienne, 426 
a la Monaco, fonds d', 429 
a la Momay, fonds d', 428 
k la Polonaise, fonds d', 429 
k la reine, fonds d', 491 
a la Tartare, fonds d', 52 
a la Venitienne, fonds d', 428 
aux champignons, fonds d', 

426 
bouillis a la Hollandaise, 426 
farcis aux marrons, fonds d', 

427 
fonds d', 426 
karis a la Mornay, fonds d', 

427 
oeufs et fonds d', 553 
petites mousses d', 490 
Artichoke bottoms, 426 

Monaco style, 429 
Mornay style, curried, 

427 
Polish style, 429 
queen style, 491 
stuffed, 428 
stuffed with chestnuts, 

427 
Venetian style, 428 
with eggs, 553 
with Mornay sauce, 428 
with mushrooms, 426 
with spinach, 430 
with tartar sauce, 52 
creams, little, 490 
fritters, 427 
Artichokes, Barigoule style, 425 
with Hollandaise sauce, 

boiled, 426 
with Italian sauce, 426 
Asparagus, cold, 492 

sauce vinaigrette, 490 
Hollandaise sauce, 434 
in crusts, 433 
Milan style, 433 
PoHsh style, 433 
timbale of cold, 491 
to prepare for cooking, 433 
with mayonnaise, cold, 490 
with mousseline sauce, 433 
Asperges a la Hollandaise, 434 
a la mayonnaise, 490 
k la MUanaise, 433 
k la mousseline, 433 
k la Polanaise, 433 
' k la vert- pre, timbale d', 491 
k la vinaigrette, 490 
chaudfroid d', 492 
croustades aux, 433 
en petits pois, pointes d', 434 
A«pic de volaille a I'ltalienne, 362 
jelly, 40 
of chicken, Italian style, 362 



Aubergines au gratin, 434 
farcies, 434 
grillees, 435 

Baba au rhum, 693 

Babooty, 275 

Bacon and macaroni, 520 

fried, 521 

grilled, 521 

rolled, 521 
Baked beetroot, 436 

custard pudding, 622 
Baking powder, to make, 634 
Ballotines de becassines, 371 

de cailles, 336 

of quails, 336 
Banana blanc -mange, 762 

Charlotte, 757 

Chartreuse, 742 

cream, 710 

fritters, 682 

gondolas, little, 743 

pudding, 667 
Bananes a la Conde, 666 

a la Wellington, bavaroise 
de, 743 

beignets de, 682 

Charlotte de, 757 

Chartreuse de, 742 

gamies a la Marie, 742 

meringuees, 668 

petites gondoles de, 743 

sur croiites, 667 
Barbue a la Andalouse, filets de, 
126 

a la diva, filets de, 127 

a la Florentine, filets de, 126 

a rindienne, filets de, 127 

a la Montgolfier, 125 

a la Villeneuvi, filets de, 127 

au Bearnaise, filets de, 126 
Barley milk, 631 
Barquettes de crevettes, 50 

de homard, 49 
Basket of fruits, 751 

of vegetables, little, 492 
Batons a la Gruyere, 880 

au rhum, 835 

aux amandes, 835 
Batter, frying, 634 

pancake, 634 

pudding, boiled, 652 
with fruit, 653 
Bavarois a la diplomate, 719 

a la vanille, 710 

au Parmesan, 863 

aux peches, 711 

de bananes, 710 
Bavaroise de bananes k la Wel- 
lington, 743 
Beans a la maitre d'hotel, butter, 
458 

boiled, French, 458 

butter 459 

haricots, 459 

maitre d'hotel style, mixed, 
458 



Beans sauted in butter, French, 
458 

with cream, broad, 457 
Becasses a la LucuUus, filets de, 

342 
Becassines, ballotines de, 371 ^ 

Beef a la Portugaise, minced, 407 

border with primes, 235 

boudins of, 411 

braised a la mode, 375 

Neapolitan style, fillet 
of, 375 

breslaw of, 407 

cakes, 410 

carmelon of, 410 

cold, fillets of, 293 

en persillade, 411 

fillets, African style, 220 
Algerian style, 220 
bourgeoise style, 222 
Brillat style, larded, 223 
Brisse style, 226 
Gabrielle style, 228 
gourmet style, small, 224 
Mirabeau style, 222 
Pohsh style, 221 
pompadour style, 225 
Eossini style, 227 
royal style, 225 
St. Germain style, 226 
toreador style, 222 
Tyrol style, 222 
Viennoise style, 224 
with bananas, 225 
with Genoise sauce, 221 
with horseradish sauce, 

221 
with nouilles, 223 
with truffles, 222 

Flemish style, braised rump 
of, 374 

galantine, 295 

goulash of, 271 

hash, 409 

jelly, 611 

minced, 407 

oUves, 235 

potted, 526 

proven9al style, sirloin of,374 

rechauffe of, 411 

Richeheu style, fillet of, 377 

salad, 409 

Spanish style, fillets of, 294 

stewed brisket of, 268 

stewed leg of, 266 

timbale with Madeira, 241 

trifles, 523 

Tyrolian style, larded fillet, 
376 

with beetroot, httle timbales 
of, 294 

with mushrooms, larded fillet 
of, 376 

with oyster sauce, grilled, 41 1 

with poached eggs, minced, 
407 

with tomatoes, minced, 412 



INDEX 



917 



Beef, with vegetables, braised 

rump of, 375 
Beef-essence, 610 
Beef-tea, 608-9 

and macaroni, 611 

raw, 610 
Beefsteak, Spanish, 256 

stuffed and rolled, 271 
Beetroot rolls with Montpellier 
butter, 53 

sauted, 437 

stuffed with celery, 492 

with cream, 436 
Beetroots, boiled, 436 

royal style, 45 

with spring vegetables, 45 
Beignets a la bourgeoise, 683 

a la Polonaise, 682 

au Moka, 682 

au riz, 683 

d'abricot, 681 

d'ananas, 681 

d'artichauts a TEspagnole, 
427 

de bananes, 682 

de celeri, 443 

de cervelles, 219 

de concombres, 451 

de fromage, 868 

de hareng fume, 523 

de laitances de harengs, 863 

de macarons, 683 

d'oranges, 682 

de pain, 682 

de ris de veau, 247 

de salsifis, 482 

de spaghetti, 509 

de tomates, 485 

de topinambours, 432 

souffles, 684 

souffles en surprise, 685 
Bengal canapes, 863 
Belterave k la creme, 436 

k la jardiniere, 45 

k la Montpellier, paupiettes 
de, 53 

k la royale, 45 

bouillies, 436 

farcies au celeri, 492 

sautes, 437 
Beurre a la diable, 30 

a la Madras, 30 

a la Portugaise, 32 

au cafe, 636 

au jambon, 30 

au paprika, 31 

d'anchois, 30 

de crevettes, 31 

de homard, 30 

de moutarde, 32 

de Raifort, 30 

de Ruisseau, 31 

^chalote, 32 

estragon, 31 

maitre d'hotel, 31 

MontpelUer, 31 

noir, 32 



Beurre ravigote, 31 

Venitienne, 31 
Biscuits, Abemethy, 847 

almond, 836 

American, 848 

arrowroot, 852 

BraziUan, 849 

chocolate, 836, 851 

cinnamon, 851 

cocoanut, 830 

dessert, 836 

digestive, 849 

empress, 850 

fancy, 851 

German, 852 

honey, 838 

lady's finger, 850 

oatmeal, 852 

Oliver, 852 

Perkin, 851 

rice, 848 

royal, 851 

Savoy, 849 

Shrewsbury finger, 850 

small, 858 

soda, 848 

Vienna, 859 

wafer, 848 

walnut, 858 

water, 848 

wine, 849 

York, 849 
Bisque de crevettes, 91 

d'ecrivisses, 90 

de homard, 90 

a rindienne, 91 
Black cock, roast, 394 
Blackberry cordial, 912 

syrup, 912 
Blanc-mange, cornflour, 628 

Floradar, 628 

Irish-moss, 625 
BlanchaiUes k la diable, 134 

au curry, 134 

aux fines herbes, 135 

frits, 134 
Bloater fritters, 523 

pie, 148 
Bloaters k la Sefton, 522 

pickled, 523 

potted, 527 
Boeuf a I'Africaine, filets de, 220 

a I'Algerienne, filets de, 220 

k la betterave, petites tim- 
bales de, 294 

k la bourgeoise, filets de, 222 
queue de, 236 

k la Brisse, filets de, 226 

k I'Espagnole, filets de, 294 

k la financiere, palais de, 236 

k la Gabrielle, toumedoa de, 
228 

k la Genoise, fillets de, 221 

a la jardiniere, pidce de, 375 

k la Lyonnaise, palais de, 237 

k la Madere, timbale, 241 

k la Jklirabeau, filets de, 222 



Boeuf h la Polonaise, filets de, 221 
a la pompadour filets de 225 
k la provencale, aloyau de, 

374 
k la Richelieu, filet de, 377 
k la Rossini, filets de, 227 
a la royale, filets de, 225 
k la St. Germam, filets de, 226 
a la toreador, filets de, 222 
a la Tyrolienne, filets de, 222 
k la Viennoisc, filets de, 224 
au Madere, langue de, 377 
au sauce raifort, filets de, 221 
aux bananes, filets de, 225 
aux choufleur, queue de, 236 
aux gourmets, mignons de 

filets de, 224 
aux nouilles, filets de, 223 
aux petits pois, fricassee de 

palais de, 237 
aux prunes, bordure de crfeme 

de, 235 
aux prunes, toumedos de,232 
aux truffles, filets de, 222 
braise a la Flamande, piece 
de, 374 
a la mode, 375 
k la NapoUtaine, filet do, 
375 
en chaudfroid, filets de, 293 
frite, queue de, 534 
froid, langue de, 377 
galantine de, 295 
olives de, 235 

pique a la brillat, filets de, 
223 
a la Tyrolierme, filet de, 

376 
aux champignons, filet 
de, 376 
roti, langue de, 377 
sauce Beamaise, queue de, 

235 
8ur canapes, langue de, 46 
Boiled chicken and egg sauce, 261 

mutton, 261 
Bomb, Nesselrode style, 778 
Bombe k la Marie Louise, 778 
k la Nesselrode, 778 
tutti-frutti, 778 
Bombes de tomates, petites, 501 
de volaille a la Victoria, 
petites, 358 
Bonne-bouches aux fruits, 654 
aux ceufs, 551 
de ris d'agneau, 246 
Border of hare with chestnut 

sauce, 345 
Bordure a la princesse, 758 
de cailles en aspic, 368 
de filets de soles en aspic, 169 
de Florador aux prunes, 751 
d'huitres en surprise, 170 
de lievre k la pur6e de mat- 
rons, 345 
de riz aux champignon?, 503 
de saumon aux huitres, 98 



918 



INDEX 



Bordure de turbot h, la Castelaine, 
104 

de turbot a I'ltalienne, 170 
savarin aux fruits, 692 
Bortsch polonaise, 83 
Bouchees a la chasseur, petites, 
239 
aux huitres, 145 
dame, 824 
de faisan h, la modeme, 

petites, 248 
de rognons a la Parmentier, 

petites, 242 
de tete de veau, petites, 217 
lady, 824 
iiouches of kidneys with potato, 

little, 242 
Boudins de faisan a la Stanley, 330 
de veau a la Lucullus, 247 

a la Richelieu, 249 
of pheasant, Stanley style, 

330 
of veal, Lucullus style, 247 
Bouquets garnis, 32 
Brain fritters, 219 

scallops of ca'f's, 530 
to cook, 218 
with black butter, 218 
with Momay sauce, 218 
with mushrooms, 219 
with parsley sauce, 219 
Brains, brochettes of, 531 

croquettes of, 220 
Braised mutton cutlets, 261 
Brandy, cherry, 908 
fizz, cherry, 911 
kernel, 909 
rings, little, 855 
wafers, 841 
Brawn, 268 

Bread-and-butter dumplings, 
little, 653 
pudding, 650 
invahd, 624 
and milk, 620 
and-treacle pudding, 646 
brown, 784 
fritters, 682 
household, 784 
^ pudding, boiled, 648 

brown, 651 
pulled, 526 
soda, 786 
Vienna, 785 
wheat-meal, 784 
Breadcrumbs, fried, 386 
Breasts of partridges. Duchess 
style, 323 
of wild duck, with orange,338 
Brill, Andalusian style, fillets of. 
126 
diva style, fillets of, 127 
Indian style, fillets of, 127 
Montgolfier style, 125 
Villeneuve style, fillets of, 127 
with Beamaise, fillets of, 126 
with spinach, fillets of, 126 



Brioche paste, 637 
Brochettes de ris de veau, 244 
Brussels sprouts sauted in butter, 

449 
Bubble-and-squeak, 408 
Buns, 790 

Bath, 790 

Chelsea, 790 

cinnamon, 792 

cream, 844 

ginger, 791 

Itahan, 792 

Jubilee, 792 

raspberry, 791 

rice, 830 

spice, 792 

vanilla, 792 
Butter, anchovy, 30 

black, 32 

chutney, 30 

devilled, 30 

fairy, 763 

green herb, 31 

ham, 30 

horseradish, 30 

lobster, 30 

Montpellier, 31 

mustard, 32 

paprika, 31 

parsley, 31 

Portuguese, 32 

shallot, 32 

shrimp, 31 

tarragon, 31 

to clarify, 33 

Venetian, 31 

watercress, 31 

Cabbage sauted in butter, 448 

stuffed, 449 

rolls of, 449 
Cabillaud a la bonne femme, 
cotelettes de, 106 

a la Colbert, 107 

a rindienne, 106 

a I'ltalienne, 107 

k la Milanaise, cotelettes de, 
106 

a la Parisienne, dame de, 159 

a la Portugaise, 107 

a la Princesse, cotelettes de, 
106 

a la Proven^ale, 107 

a la Tyrolienne, dame de, 164 

bouilh, sauce homard, 105 

fian de, 157 

frit a la Dieppoise, 105 

roti a la Venitienne, 105 
Cailles a I'aurore, chaudfroid de, 
368 

a I'Espagnole, 334 

k la Jardiniere, 337 

a la Lucullus, 336 

a la Sylvia, cotelettes de, 334 

a la Turque, 337 

au risotto, 334 

aux cerises, 336 



Cailles, ballotines de, 336 
braises, sauce celeri, 333 
chaudfroid of, 370 
en aspic, bordure de, 368 
en caisses, chaudfroid de, 369 
en feuilletage, 335 
farcies, 370 

chaudfroid de, 362 
roties, sauce raisin, 333 
Cake, almond-seed, 813 
Alpine, 804 
American lemon, 811 

white, 812 
angel, 797 
apple, 789 
apricot, 807 
Balmoral, 821 
birthday, 801 
Boston, 815 
breakfast, 79o 
burnt almond, 804 
Canadian, 811 
cherry, 794 
chocolate, 805 
Christmas, 802 
cocoanut, 808 
dainty, 810 
dehcate, 810 
Dehlle, 816 
dough, 785 
Dover, 834 
Dundee, 796 
fig, 804 
Florador, 820 
Genoa, 795 
German poimd, 795 
ginger, 798 
gold, 797 
harlequin, 810 
honey, 815 
honey layer, 804 
Hungarian, 839 
Jamaica ginger, 798 
jelly layer, 814 
lady, 797 
lawn-tennis, 805 
lemon, 807, 811 
luncheon, 794 
Madeira, 796 
marble, 799 
Mexican, 800 
Mocha, 807 
Mosaic, 807 
Mousseline, 815 
orange, 806 

cream, 814 
parcel-post, 806 
pineapple, 814 
plain currant, 796 
plum, 799 
Polish, 727 
Portuguese, 812 
potato, 799 
pound, 794 
Princess, 813 
rasin, 815 
raspberry, 803 



INDEX 



919 



Cake, raspberry Geonese, 817 
rich, 809 
rose, 813 
Savoy, 821 
seed, 796 
silver, 800 
simnel, 799 
snow, 797 
soda, 798 
Spanish, 803 
spice, 797 
sponge, 820 
strawberry, 804 

short, 703 
sultana, 795 
surprise, 726 
tips}-, 723 
Trocadero, 812 
vanilla, 808 
Victoria sandwich, 81(5 
Violette, 914 
wahiut, 803 

layer, 820 
■wedding, 802 
Yorkshire spice, 788 
Cakes, Alexandra, 829 
Alma, 825 
almond rock, 794 
Banbury, 701 
baskets, 823 
Berlin, 846 
chocolate praline, 823 
Cingalese, 834 
cocoanut rock, 
Conde, 834 
Cornish tea, 793 
currant rock, 793 
Derby short, 786 
dessert, 837 
Devonshire, 826 
Erin, 834 
fairy, 831 
fruit tea, 790 
girdle, 791 
hasty, 793 
honey, 822 
hot apple, 789 
little, 816 

brown, 856 

gingerbread, 856 

spice, 857 
Madeleine, 820 
marmalade, 830 
orange, 832 ; rock, 793 
Prince of Wales, 832 
Queen, 829 

cocoanut, 837 
rock, 794 
small chocolate, 824 

sponge, 821 
snow, 827 
Swiss, 825 
tea, 787 

vanilla rock, 794 
Venice, 839 
Victoria, 833 
Yorkshire tea, 786 



Cakes, "Sule, 789 
Calf's feet fricassee, 216 
fried, 215 
fritters, 216 
stewed, 269 
foot jeUy, 621, 706 

stock for jelly, 40 
head, boiled, 395 
patties, 217 
poulette style, 217 
turtle style, 218 
with Italian sauce, 216 
with vinaigrette sauce, 
217 
Calves' tongues braised, 270 
Canapes a la Duxelle, 861 
a rindienne, 52, 862 
a la Prince de Galles, 53 
a la Reforme, 52 
aux sardines, 874 
d'anchois, 53 
de creme de from age, 861 
d'ecrevisses, 880 
de foie-gras, 51 
de sardines a la remoulade, 53 
de tomates, 48 
Indian style, 52 
Prince of Wales style, 53 
reforme style, 52 
Canard a la Montglas, salmi de, 
309 
aux marrons, 309 
braise aux navets, 309 
salmi de, 308 

sauvage a I'orange, poitrines 
de, 338 
au salade d'oranges, 385 
salmi de, 338 
Caneton a la bigarade, 310 

a Tora^nge, chaudfroid de, 363 
a la Rouermais, 310 
aux potits pois, 310 
ballontines de, 310 
braise aux navets, 385 
chaudfroid, timbale de, 363 
glace aux cerises, 364 
Cannelons, 701 

a la royale, 241 
Cannes cutlets, 398 
Capercailzie, roast, 395 
Capon, ambassadress stylc,medal- 
Uons of, 352 
roast. 381 
souffled, 301 
with poulette sauce, 383 
royal style, 384 
Carottes k I'Andalouse, 437 
a la Flamande, 437 
a la Lilloise, 438 
a la Vioh3% 439 
braisees, 437 
cassolettes de, 438 
farcies, 439 

petites timbak 8 de, 440 
souflQes aux, 439 
Carrot cassolettes, 438 
Carrot pudding, 646 



Carrot souffles, 439 

a la Lilloise, 438 

Andalusian style, 437 

braised, 437 

Flemish style, 437 

little moulds of, 440 

stuffed, 439 

Vichy style, 439 
Carr6 de mouton braise k la Jar 

diniere, 382 
Casserole a la Jeanne, oeufs en, 555 
- a la Momay, oeufs en, 556 

aux champignons, oeufs en, 
556 

aux epinards, oeufs en, 556 

de pommes, 659 

filet de bceuf en, 282 

mutton cutlets en, 280 

navarin d'agneau en, 280 

oeufs en, 555 

of apples, 659 

of braised chicken, 281 

of braised partridges, 282 

of chicken, 281 

of fillet of beef, 282 

of navarin of lamb, 280 

of partridges, Demidoff style, 
284 

of pigeons a la Souvaroff, 284 

of pigeons with cabbage, 283 

of plaice, 150 

of rabbit, 282 

of veal kidney, 282 

perdieaux a la Demidoff en, 
284 

pigeons a la Souvaroff en, 284 
au chou en, 283 

poulet braise en, 281 

poulet en, 281 

quails en, 283 

roast pheasant en, 281 

rognon de veau en, 282 

rump steak en, 280 

sweetbread en, 283 

veal cutlets en, 283 
Cassolettes a la Princesse Maud 
240 

d'ecrivisses, 54, 525 

de fromage, 888 

of prawns, 54 

of rice, 401 
Cat's tongues, 829 
Cauliflower, baked, 448 

boiled, 446 

Dubarry style, mousse of, 447 

Florentine style, 447 

Indian stj^le, baked, 448 

Httle timbales of, 447 

Pohsh style, 447 

ViUeroi style, 448 

with black butter, 446 

pickled, 904 
Caviar a la diable, 867 

aux ecrevisses, 45 

aux huitres, 47 

brissolettes, 46 

croutes de, 879 -. 



920 



INDEX 



Caviare brissolettes, 46 

devilled, 867 

with oysters, 47 

with pra-wTis, 45 
Celeri a TAnglaise, 440 

a I'Espagnole, 441 

a la Villeroi, 442 

au croutons a la veloute, 442 

au jus, 442 

au Parmesan, 442 

beignets de, 443 

braise, 441 

creme de, 495 

puree de, 441 

souffles de, 443 
Celery a la Villeroi, 442 

braised, 441 

cold cream of, 495 

fritters, 443 

on croutons with veloute 
sauce, 442 

puree of, 441 

souffles, 443 

to curl, 589 

with cheese, 442 

with Espagnole sauce, 441 

with gravy, 442 

with white sauce, boiled, 440 
Cerises, croquettes de, 686 

rissoles de, 686 
Cervelles au beurre noir, 218 

aux champignons, 219 

beignets de, 219 

brochettes of, 530 

de veau a la Momay, 218 

de veau a la poulette, 219 

de veau, croquettes de, 220 
Champignons, 833 

k la Bordelaise, 445 

k la creme, 444 

a la diable, 445 

a la Proven9ale, 445 

au beurre, 444 

au gratin, coquUles de, 446 

corbeilles aux, 446 

croquettes de, 445 

farcis, 444 

sautes, 444 

Bur croutes, 866 
Charlotte a la Creole, 756 

apple, 691 

au chocolat a la Hollandaise, 
754 

aux pistaches, 755 

banana, 757 

chestnut, 755 

Creole style, 756 

currant, 690 

d'ananas, 756 

de bananes, 757 

de fruits, 763 

de Groseilles, 690 

de marrons, 755 

de poires, 754 

de pommes, 691 

de prunes, 693 

fruit, 763 



Charlotte, Montreuil style, 756 

Mosaic, 755 

pear, 754 

pineapple, 756 

prune, 093 

Russe, 753 

with chocolate, Dutch style, 
754 

with pistachio-nuts, 755 
Chartreuse de faisan a la chasseur, 
324 

de Lievre, 346 

of hare, 346 

of pheasant, hunter's style, 
324 
Chaudfroid d'asperges, 492 

de cailles, 370 

de cailles a I'aurore, 368 

de cailles en caisses, 369 

de cailles farcies, 369 

de caneton a I'orange, 363 

de faisan, 366 

de faisan en aspic, 366 

de homard, 173 

d'huitres a la ^Montpeher, 170 

de pigeons k la Bohemienne 
363 

de Volaille, 353 

de Volaille a la Princesse, 
353 

de Volaille en Belle Vue, 352 
Cheese aigrettes, 888 

and tomato pudding, 489 

cassolettes, 888 

croutes, 860 

custard, 531 

cutlets, 868 

devilled, on toast, 880 

pudding, 531 

rissoles, 867 

souffle, pastry case with, 873 

straws, 887 

tartlets, 889 
Cheesecakes, 702 

almond, 697 

apple, 699 

citron, 698 

cocoanut, 699 

curd, 698 

lemon, 700 

orange, 699 

rice, 698 

Weymtuth, 698 

Windsor, 697 
Cherries, croquets of, 686 

bounce, 911 

rissoles, 686 
Chestnut amber, 639 

border with cream, 720 

charlotte, 755 

cream, 712 

croquets, 686 

dariolettes of, 721 

pudding, 649 

souffle, 673 

vermicelli, 857 

with gravy, 460 



Chevreuil k Tecartate, cotelettea 
de, 348 
a la Parisienne, civet de, 348 
a la puree de marrons, cote- 

lettes de, 348 
a la St. Hubert, filet de, 349 
aux concombres, noisettes de, 

349 
braises, cotelettes de, 349 
grilles, cotelettes de, 347 
Chicken and macaroni, croustade 
of, 418 
and rice au gratin, 418 
Andouillettes, 239 
au gratin, 419 
Aurora style, 304 
Belle Vue style, chaudfroid 

of, 352 
boiled, 261, 618 
bombs, Victoria stvle, 358 
border of fillets of," 304 
breast a la Reine, 359 
broth, 610 

with egg, nourishing, 631 
Catalane style, 303 
Chartreuse style, little tim- 

bales, 354 
chaudfroid, 353 

Princess style, 353 
creams, 615 

Juliette style, little, 356 

Httle, 359 

with tongue, 356 
croquettes, 618 
croustades of, 419 
cutlets, 304, 417 

Princess style, 356 
dominoes, 358 
dormes, 249 
Duchess style, supremes of, 

301 
entree, cold, 417 
financier style, Utile souffl6« 

of, 242 
fricasse of, 262, 308 
fried, Villeroi style, 301 
galantine, 354 
grilled and devilled, 303 

Itahan style, 303 
in aspic, darioles of, 361 
Jeannette style, scollops ol, 

362 
jelly, 611 
legs, fried, 418 

with spinach, 302 
little timbales of, 242 
livers and kidneys, deviUe(^ 
517 

devilled, 536, 868 
mayonnaise, 360 

Princess style, 359 
mousse of, 360 

royal style, 356 
Nancy style, little boat- 
shapes of, 306 
of aspic, Italian style, 362 
opera style, fillets of, 302 



INDEX 



921 



Chicken pie, 306 
Portuguese, 302 
Princess style, medallions of, 

305 
pulled. 617 

quenelles of, cooked, 418 
salad, 353 

sauted. Doria style, 298 
Forestiere style, 299 
Hungarian style, 299 
hunter style, 298 
Marengo style, 299 
Portuguese style, 300 
Princess style, 300 
Stanley style, 300 
with cream, 299 
with herbs, 298 
souffles in cases, little, 251 
spatchcock, 303 
timbale Avith asparagus, 358 

Hollandaise style, 359 
turban of tillets of,'306 
with tomato sauce, 262, 

420 
with truffles, vol-au-vent of, 

307 
with watercress, roast, 382 
Chickens' livers, little souffles of, 
251 
little timbales of, 252 
Chicks, Portuguese style, 308 
roasted, 395 
Viennese style, 308 
" Chinese Chilo,'' 259 
Chocolat, souffle au, 762 
Chocolate and rice pudding, 680 
blanc-mange, 765 
busserln, 859 
cream, 712 
eclairs, 832 
fingers, 829 
Genoese, 836 
icing. 63^ 
pudding, 642 

meringued, 657 
souffle, 762 
tartlets, 701 
to make, 913 
Chop, grilled, %M 
steamed, 614 
Chou-de-Mer a la creme, 450 
a I'Espagnole, 450 
a la Hollandaise, 450 
k la mayonnaise, 493 
Chou farci, 449 

Chou-fleur k la Dubarry, mousse 
de, 447 
a la Florentine, 447 
a la Polonaise, 447 
a la Villeroi, 448 
au beurre noir, 446 
au gratin, 448 
au gratin k I'lndiemie, 

448 
bouilU, 446 
Choux de Bruxelles sautds au 
beurre, 449 



Choux-fleurs, petites timbales de, 

447 
Choux farci, paupiettes de, 449 

sautes au beurre, 448 
Christmas plum-pudding, 648 
Chutnej', apple, 900 
apricot jam, 900 
gooseberr}', 900 
tomato, 900 
Civet de chevreuil a la Parisienne, 
348 
de hevre, 345 
Claret, granite, 782 

mulled, 908 
Clear mock turtle soup, 67 
ox-tail soup, 65 
soup, 57 

a la Duchesse, 61 

a la jMonaco, 63 

a la Veneur, 68 

a la Vivian, 68 

Andalusian, 59 

beetroot, 59 

Brunoise, 59 

chicken, 58 

Colbert style, 64 

Countess style, 60 

Demidoff, 60 

diplomatic, 60 

Dubarry, 61 

Duclair, 61 

Fermi ere. 61 

Fleuri, 62 

Jacobins, 62 

Juhenne, 62 

Mettemich, 62 

Mikado, 62 

Milanaise garnish, 63 

new reign, 64 

Portuguese, 66 

Princess, 65 

Printanier royal, 64 

Ramboule, 66 

Renaissance, 65 

Richeheu, 66 

royal style, 66 

Sevigne, 66 

souveraine, 66 

to strain, 41 

Tosca, 67 

Trianon, 67 

Vert-Pre, 68 

with chestnuts, 63 

with dice of custard, 60 

with Florador, 61 

with pancake, 60 

with vegetables, 59 

with vermicelli, 67 
tomato soup, 67 
Cocoa, to make, 913 
Cocoanut balls, 824 
cabbage, 277 
cheesecakes, 699 
pudding, 639 
sandwiches, 844 
sponge drops, 835 
Cod, baked, Venetian sauce, 105 



Cod, boiled, lobster sauce, 105 

Colbert style, 107 

croustades of, 155 

cutlets, housewife style, 106 
Milan style, 106 
Princess style, 106 

fried, Dieppoise style, 105 

in pastry case, 157 

Indian style, 106 

Italian style, 107 
_Portuguese style, 107 

Proven^ale style, 107 

with artichokes, 154 
Coffee eclairs, 832 

fingers, 828 

fritters, 682 

souffle, 672 

to make, 913 
Colcannon, 527 
Collops, 618 
Compote de figues, 747 

de fraises, 745 

de peches, 735 

de poires, 669 

de raisins, 767 

of figs, 747 

of grapes, 767 

of oranges, 629 

of pears, 669 

of strawberries, 745 
Concombre farci, 452 

farcis, petites caisses de, 56 

frit, 452 

glace, 453 
Concombres a la creme, 451 

a I'Espagnole, 450 

a la Momay, 453 

a la poulette, 451 

beignets de, 451 
Consomme, 57 

k I'Andalouse, 59 

a la Comtesse, 60 

k la Duchesse, 61 

a la Duclair, 61 

a la Milanaise, 63 

a la Monaco, 63 

a la Nesselrode, 63 

a la Princesse, 65 

a la Richelieu, 66 

a la royale, 66 

a la tomate, 67 

a la Tosca, 67 

a la Trianon, 67 

a la Veneur, 68 

a la Vivian, 68 

aux queues de bceuf, 66 

au'x vermicelles, 67 

bouquetiere, 59 

Brimoise, 59 

Celestine, 60 

Christophe Colomb, 60 

de betterave, 59 

de volaille, 58 

Demidoff, 60 

diplomate, 60 

Dubarry, 61 

Fermiere, 61 



922 



INDEX 



Ctonsomme, Fleuri, 62 
Florador, 61 
Jacobins, 62 
Julienne, 62 
Mettemich, 62 
Mikado, 62 
Mille-Fanti, 63 
nouveau regne, 64 
pannequets printaniers, 64 
Portugaise, 65 
printanier a la Colbert, 64 

royale, 64 
Ramboule, 66 
Renaissance, 65 
Sevigne, 66 
souveraine, 66 
Tortue-Fausse, 67 
to strain, 41 
Vert-Pre, 68 
(bokies, 846 

cocoanut, 847 
fig, 847 
ginger, 847 
lemon, 847 
Coq de Bruyere braise, 390 

a I'Espagnole, 332 
roti, 391 

saute a la Vincent, 332 
Coquilles de Champignons au 
gratin, 446 
de foie-gras, 318 
d'ceufs, 554 
de poisson a la Chiflfonade, 

163 
de ris de veau, 243 
Corbeilles, 823 

aux Champignons, 446, 883 
aux petits pois, 466 
de fruits, 751 
Comets a la creme, 705 
a la Mont-Glas, 245 
Cornflour blanc -mange, 628 
Cornish pasties, 272 
Cotelettes au fromage, 868 
aux huitres, 146 
aux CBufs, 551 

d'Agneau a la Duchesse, 178 
a la Jardiniere, 178 
a la Maltaise, 176 
a la Massena, 176 
a la Navarraise, 177 
a la Parma, 179 
a la Princesse, 177 
a la St. Menehould, 176 
a la Villeroy, 179 
au beurre noir, 175 
au concombre, 175 
au risotto, 178 
aux fines herbes, 175 
farcies a la Perigueux, 
177 
do Cabilland a la bonne 
femme, 106 
a la Milanaise, 106 
a la Princesse, 106 
de Cailles a la Sylvia, 334 
de Chevreuil a I'Ecarlate, 348 



Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la pur^ 
de marrons, 348 
braises, 349 
grilles, 347 

de faisan a la Richelieu, 328 

de homard, 140 

de jambon aux ceufs, 548 

de lievre a I'AUemande, 344 

de mouton a la bonne femme, 
186 
a la Bretonne, 181 
a la Comtesse, 184 
a la Maintenon, 185 
a la Nelson, 185 
a la Pompadour, 184 
a la Russe, 184 
a la Suedoise, 186 
a la Venetienne, 184 

d'ceufs aux sardines, 884 

de pore h la Flamande, 238 
a la Soubise, 237 
sauce piquante, 237 

de saumon a I'Anglaise, 95 
a la Comtesse, 97 
a la Pojarsky, 97 
aux concombres, 100 

de veau a I'ltalienne, 194 
a la Lyonnaise, 194 
a la NapoHtaine, 195 
a la Pojarski, 195 
a la Polonaise, 195 

de Volaille a la Princesse, 356 

froides a la Princesse, 297 
Coupes de concombres, 493 

de peches, 780 

Jacques, 780 
Crab-apples, preserved Siberian, 

899 
Crab, buttered, 143 

Carroll style, 142 

curried, 143 
Crabe a la Carroll, 142 

en aspic, mousse de, 173 

supreme de, 142 
Cream, Celestine style, 744 

Chantilly style, coffee, 716 

chestnut, 712 

chocolate, 712 

Florentine, 719 

frangipan, 634 

Genoese, 715 

ginger, 711 

gooseberry, 746 

Slarguerite style, 717 

milk, 764 

NeapoHtan, 714 

of cheese. Canapes, 861 

of chicken, with tongue, 350 

orange, 627 

Orleans, 714 

pineapple, 748 

pistachio, 711 

Princess, 714 

Princess style, little, 718 

Roman, 718 

St. Honore, 725 

stone, 713 



Cream, tapioca, 627 

to whip, 633 

vanilla, 710 

velvet, 712 

with chestnuts, vanilla, 716 

with meringues, harlequin, 
715 
Creams, fig, 747 
Creme a la Bayonne, 80 

a la Celestine, 744 

a la Florentine, 719 

a la Genoise, 715 

a la Marguerite, 717 

a I'orange, 740 

a la Princesse, 714 
petites, 718 

a la Romaine, 718 

a la Venetienne, 74, 84 

au gingembre, 711 

d'abricots, 740 

d'ananas, 748 

de celeri, 495 

de Champignons, 70 

de chocolat, 712 

de faisan, petites, 367 

de figues, 747 

de fraises, 745 

de Groseille Verte, 746 

de homard, 171 

de Legiomes, 74 

de marrons, 712 

Mocha a la Chantilly, 716 

d'orange en surprise, 741 

d'orge a la Viennese, 85 

d'Orleans, 714 

de pist aches, 711 

de riz Renversee, 717 

de soles a la Meridionale, 91 

de vanille aux marrons, 716 

de velour, 712 

de volaille a I'ecarlate, 356 

de volaille a la JuUette, 
petites, 355 
a la Marie Stuart, 86 
a la Sultane, 84 
petites, 359 

frangipane, 634 

harlequin aux meringues, 716 

leche, 764 

NapoHtaine, 714 

patissiere, 634 

St. Honore, 725 
Crepes, 685 

a la Fran9aise, 685 

a la Normande, 685 

farcis, 686 
Crepinettes de perdreau, 324 

de ris d? veau, 244 
Crescents, 839 
Crevettes a la Duchesse, 54 

barquettes de, 50 

croutes de, 48 
Croissants, 839 
Oromesquis a la Russe, 239 

aux huitrt's, 147 

aux oeufs, 550 
Croquets, 835 



INDEX 



923 



Croquets, chestnut, 686 

of cherries, 686 

of foiergras, 318 

of pears. 688 

rice, 687 
Croquettes aux huitres, 147 

aux oeufs, 555 

de cerises, 686 

de champignons, 445 

d'epinards, 453 

de Florador, 506 

de foie-gras, 318 

de homard a I'lndienne, 139 

de jambon, 250 

de macaroni, 508 

de marrons, 686 

de panais, 463 

de poires, 688 

de poisson, 151 

de pommes de terra, 468 

de riz, 687 

de saumon, 97 

en surprise, 523 

of haddock, 156 

of mushrooms. 445 

of spinach, 453 
Croustade d' oeufs a la Polonaise, 
554 

de peches, 668 

de perdreaux, 321 

de pommes de terre, 474 
Croustades aux asperges, 433 

d'epinards, 457 

de mauviettes a la I'ltaUenne, 
343 

de ris de veau, petites, 244 

de riz a la tinanciere, 241 

of larks, ItaHan style, 343 
Croute-au-pot, 59 
Croutes a la Balmoral, 54 

a la Bengal, 870 

a la Duchesse, 55 

a rimperiale, 873 

a la Lorraine, 862 

a la Madras, 869 

a la Marguerite, 46 

a la Parisienne, 872 

k la Portugaise, 883 

a la Russe, 55, 870 

au fromage, 860 

aux oeufs, 876 

Balmoral style, 54 

d'anchois, 865 

a la Colmar, 876 
aux tomates, 866 

de crevettes, 48 

d'^crivisses a la Cardinal, 46 

d'epicurc, 860 

de fromage a la diable, 880 

de homard, petites, 872 

de jambon a la diable, 536 

de laitances de harengs, 863 

de merluche fume, 889 

de poisson, 152 

de pnmes, 749 

de rognons, 860 

Duchess stj-le, 55 



Crofltes, Russian, 55 
Croutons aux huitres, 876 

de peches, 668 

frits pour potage, 41 

pour entrees, 41 
Crullers, cinnamon, 845 

ginger, 845 
Cucumber cups, 493 

fried, 452 

fritters, 451 

glazed, 453 

little cases of stuffed, 55 
Cucumbers in cream, 451 

Paulette style, 456 

stuffed, 452 

with Espagnole sauce, 450 

with Momay sauce, 453 
Cup, champagne, 907 

claret, 907 

hock, 907 
Curacoa, 908 
Currant charlotte, 690 
Currants, to clean, 633 
Curried crab, 143 

fish, 149 

lentils, 511 

rice, 504 

sardines, 529 

shrimps in cases, 150 

sweetbreads, 278 
Curry balls, 278 

Bundahloa, 275 

chicken, 277 

crab, 277 

fish, 277 

Kebob, 275 

of cold meat, 398 

of eggs, 276 

sarcUne and egg, 278 

veal (dry), 274 

vegetable, 276 
Custard, boiled, 653 

confectioners', 634 

fritters, 683 

rice, 653 

royal, for clear soup, 58 

steamed, 625 
Custards, pastry, 703 

savoury, 614 
Cutlets, cold, Princess style, 297 

of braised venison, 349 

of chicken, Princess style, 356 

of hare, German style, 344 

of pheasant, RicheMeu stylo, 
328 

of pigeons, stuffed. Duchess 
style, 312 

of quails a la Sylvia, 334 

of venison grilled, 347 

with a chestnut pur6e, 

348 
with tongue, 348 

Dames d'honneur, 700 
Damson cheese, 897 
Damsons, pickled, 901 
Darioles a la Duxelle, petites, 243 



Darioles do foie-gras, 364 

de lapin a la reine, 315 

de legumes en aspic, petites, 
494 

de petits pois, 494 

de volaille en aspic, 361 

of chicken in aspic, 361 

of foie-gras, 364 

of rabbit. Queen st^'lc, 315 

of vegetables in aspic, 494 
Date busserbi, 858 
Devijled bones, 408 

crusts for clear soup, 58 
Diable Wane, 350 
Diablotins, 58 

au Parmesan, 885 
Dinde a la Bearnaise, cotelettea 
de, 316 

a la Chipolata, 316 

a la Hongroise, cotelettes de, 
317 

au risotto, paupiettes de, 317 

bouille-sauce celeri, 384 

farcie aux marrons, 383 

farcie, froide, 384 

fricandeau de, 316 
Dominoes, 833 

of foie-gras, 364 
Dominos de filets de soles, 168 

de foie-gras, 364 

de volaille, 358 
Dormes a I'lndienne, 249 

de volaille, 249 

Indian style, 249 
Dough-nuts, 785 
Dresden patties, 401 
Drink, a strengthening and cool, 
629 «T- 

effervesfing apricot, 910 
Dripping, to clarify, 33 
Duchess potatoes, 114 
Duck, braised, with turnips, 309 

Montglas style, salmi of, 309 

salmi of, 308 

with chestnuts, 309 
Duckling, ballontines of, 310 

chaudfroid, timbale of, 363 

Rouermais style, 310 

with cherries, 310 
glazed, 364 

mth green peas, 310 

with orange flavouring, 
chaudfroid of, 363 

with turnips, braised, 385 
Dumplings, baked apple, 694 

boiled apple, 694 

fig, 649 

little bread and butter, 653 
Durham cutlets, 399 
Duxelle puree, 40 
Duxelles h, I'lndienne 861 

Eclairs chocolat, 832 
Economical pie, 258 
Ecrivisses a la Cardinal, croiites 
d', 46 
a la Duchesse, 163 



924 



INDEX 



Ecrivisses a la Rcformc, petites : 
timbales d', 171 
cassolettes d', 54, 525 
Eel, royal style, 138 

with Hollandaise sauce, 138 
Eels, matelote of, 138 
Egg and milk, 631 

croquettes, 555 

croutes, 876 

cutlets, 551 

with sardines, 884 

fritters, 549 

jeUy, 622-709 

kromeskies, 550 

plant, au gratin, 434 
grilled, 435 
stuffed, 434 

plants, stuffed, 434 

rissoles, 556 

to poach, 521 
Eggs a la bonne femme, fried, 551 

a la chasseur, scrambled, 536 

a la Mortemart, moulded, 557 

a la Portugaise, scrambled, 
540 

a la Proven^ale, fried, 541 

and artichoke bottoms, 553 

and mushrooms, 543 

Andalouse style, cold, 560 

au gratin, 557 

aurora style, poached, 546 

aux croutons, scrambled, 539 

Bordeaux style, 559 

Burgundy style, poached, 546 

Chartreuse style, 560 

chaudfroid, 560 

Clamart style, poached, 546 

(Dolinette style, cold, 562 

Coquelin style, poached, 546 

Countess style, 560 

deviUed, 542 

Duchess style, poached, 544 

Florentine style, 557 

fricasseed, 553 

fried, Portuguese style, 541 

Garfield style, 548 

Oarigen style, 543 

Genoese, 549 

in aspic, 562 

in batter, fried, 543 

in cases, 555 

in casserole a la Momay, 556 
Jean style, 555 
with spinach, 556 

in casseroles, 555 

with mushrooms, 556 

in cradle, poached, 545 

in milk, poached, 619 

in potatoes, scrambled, 639 

in shells, 554 

Italian style, 549 

little shapes of, 542 

Lyonnaise style, 550 

mattre d'hotel style, 550 

on the plate, 520 

on tomatoes, stuffed, 877 

Parisian style, 557 



Eggs, Polish style, crust of, 554 

Princess style, 558 

Queen style, 553 

Russian style, cold, 561 

sandwiches of, 881 

savoury, 870 

Scotch, 552 

scrambled, 538 

stuffed with anchovy, 562 

surprise, 738 

Swiss, 554 

timbales of scrambled, 540 

tit-bits of, 551 

to beat whites of, 633 

Trianon style, cold, 561 

tripe style, 554 

Turk style, 553 

with anchovies, scrambled, 
539 

with anchovj-, poached, 544 

with asparagus, cold, 561 
poached, 545 
scrambled, 540 

with Bechamel, soft-boiled, 
558 

with black butter, fried, 541 

with celery, poached, 544 

with cheese, scrambled, 540 

with cream, 543 

with fried potatoes, scram- 
bled, 539 

with ham, 548 

with herbs, scrambled, 538 

with Momay sauce, poached, 
545 

with mushrooms, 551 
scrambled, 538 

with nouilles and ham, 550 

with risotto, 547 

with shrimps, scrambled, 541 

with tomato, 48 

sauce, poached, 547 

with tongue, moulded, 559 

with txuffles, scrambled, 541 

with vegetables, moulded, 559 
fipaule de mouton farcie, 381 
fiperlans a la Duchesse, 133 

au gratin, 133 

en brochettes, 133 

frits, 132 

grilles, 133 

souffle d', 133 
Epicurean sauce, 110 
Epigrammes de faisan, 331 

of pheasant, 331 
fipinards a I'AUemande, 457 

a la creme, 454 

a rindienne, 456 

au gratin, 453 

aux ceufs, 528 

aux sardines, 528 

croquettes d', 453 

croustades d', 457 

farcis, 454 

friandines aux, 456 

petits souffles aux, 455 

petites timbales d', 455 



fipinards sur croutes, 455 
EscaUopes de faisan encaisses, 328 
de lievre a la Fran^aise, 344 
de ris de veau a la favorite, 
205 
a rindienne, 211 
a la Justine, 211 
a la marechale, 206 
a la Momay, 211 
a la Reine, 206 
a la supreme. 212 
aux asperges, 214 
aux concombres, 212 
de volaille a la Jeannette, 362 
Eschalots, pickled, 901 
Extract, lemon, 904 

Fadge, Irish, 787 
Faggots, 32 

Faisan a la bonne femme, 324, 389 
a la chasseur. Chartreuse de, 

324 
a la creme, 389 
a la financiere, filets de, 326 
a la Maintenon, filets de, 327 
a la modeme, petites bou- 

chees de, 248 
a la Normande, 389 
a la Richelieu, cotelettes de, 

328 
a la Russe, 332 
a la Sainte-Alhance, 390 
a la St. George, 331 
a la Stanley, boudins de, 330 
a la supreme, medallions de, 

326 
au Madere, friandines de, 325 
au vert-pre, filets de, 329 
bouilU, 390 
braise, 389 

aux marrons, 327 
chaudfroid de, 366 
en aspic, chaudfroid de, 366 
en caisses, escallopes de, 328 
en chaudfroid, filets'de, 366 
epigrammes of, 331 
farcis aux champignons, 388 
aux epinards, filets de, 
326 
galantine of, 365 
mandarines de, 365 
mousses de, 330 
pates de, 325 
petites cremes de, 367 
rotis au cresson, 388 
saute a la Perigueux, 329 
Farce de champignons, 35 
de faisan, 34 
de foie de veau, 34 
d'huitres, 34 
de marrons, 34 
de merlan, 33 
de veau, 33 
de volaille, 33 
Fat, to clarify, 33 
Feves a la creme, 457 
a I'Espagnole, 457 



INDEX 



925 



Pig creams, 747 

dumplings, 649 
pudding, 642 
Figs, compote of, 747 
stewed, 627 

with cream, timbale of, 746 
Figues a la creme, timbale de, 746 
compote of, 747 
cremes de, 747 
Filet de boeuf a la Richelieu, 377 
braise a la Napolitaine, 

375 
pique a la TyroUenne, 

376 
pique aux champignons, 
376 
of chevreuil a la St. Hubert, 

349 
de veau farci, 378 
Filets de becasses a la Lucullus, 
342 
de faisan a la tinanciere, 326 
a la Maintenon, 327 
au vert -pre, 329 
en chaudfroid, 366 
farcis aux epinards, 326 
de lievre a la Montpensier,346 
de perdreau en caisses, 322 
de soles en aspic, bordure de, 

169 
de truite a la mousse de 
homard, 169 
Fillet of venison, St. Hubert style, 

349 
Fillets of hare a la Montpentier, 
346 
of partridge in cases, 322 
of pheasant, Maintenon style, 
327 
stuffed with spinach, 326 
with financiere garnish, 

326 
with green sauce, 329 
of woodcock, Lucullus style, 
342 
Pish and macaroni, 152 

and potatoes, timbales of, 155 
cakes, 151 
croquettes, 151, 612 
croutes, 152 
curried, 149 
cutlets, 616 
mulhgatawny, 92 
pie, 153, 616 
oilau, 151 
pudding, 151, 616 
salad, 154 
with potatoes, 156 
with vinaigrette sauce, 155 
Fizz, claret, 908 

silver, 907 
Flan de Cabillaud, 157 

de fraises meringue, 704 
de souflBe de fromage, 873 
Floating island, 758 
Florador a la tomate, timbale de, 
506 



Florador and cocoanut pudding, 
680 
aux abricots, timbales de, 650 
aux prunes, bordure de, 750 
blanc-mange, 627 
cakes, fried, 505 
croquettes de, 506 
fritters, 684 
fruit-shape, 680 
pudding, apple and, 662 
shape, hot, 652 
shapes with apricots, 650 
souiHe, 673 

with prunes, border of, 750 
with tomato, shape of, 506 
Flour, 32 

Foie de veau a I'Espagnole, 215 
braise, 215 
de volaille a la diable, 536,865 
Poie-gras a la supreme, zephires 
de, 250 
canapes de, 51 
coquilles de, 318 
croquettes de, 318 
darioles de, 364 
dominos de, 364 
medallions de, 365 
nids de, 54 
pates de, 318 
shells of, 318 
Foies de volaiUe et rognons k la 
diable, 517 
petits souflSes de, 251 
petites timbales de, 252 
Fondants au fromage, 871 
Fonds d'artichauts, 426 

a la Duxelle, 428 
a la Florentine, 430 
a la Monaco, 429 
a la Momay, 428 
a la Polonaise, 429 
a la Eeine, 491 
a la Tartare, 52 
a la Venitienne, 428 
aux champignons, 426 
farcis aux marrons, 427 
karis a la Momay, 427 
ris d'agneau aux, 252 
Fondue a la Neapolitaine, 866 
Forcemeat balls for hare, etc., 35 
chestnut, 34 
chicken, 33 
liver, 34 
mushroom, 35 
oyster, 34 
pheasant, 34 
veal, 33 
whiting, 33 
Fowl, boiled, 381 

Chartreuse of, 417 
to bone a, 355 
Fraises a la cr6me, flan de, 744 
a la Creole, 745 
k la Melba, 780 
compote de, 745 
cr^me de, 745 
meringue, flan de, 704 



Fraises, pain de, 746 

Tivoli aux, 744 
French beans, to bottle, 899 
Friandines aux Epinards, 456 

de faisan au Madere, 325 

of pheasant, with Madeira, 
325 
Fricandeau de veau aux Epinards, 

378 
Fricassee de palais de bceuf aux 

petits pois, 237 
Fried crusts for entrees, 41 
for soup, 41 

parsley, 32 
Fritters, appls, 680 

apricot, 681 

banana, 682 

bourgeoise style, 683 

brain, 219 

bread, 682 

cheese, 868 

coflfee, 682 

custard, 683 

Florador, 684 

little, 858 

macarons, 683 

of herring-roes, 863 

orange, 682 

pineapple, 681 

Polish, 682 

rice, 683 

souffle, 684 

surprise, 685 
Fruit and vegetables, to bottle, 
898 

marzipan, 837 
Fumet of game, 40 

Galantine de faisan, 365 

de volaille, 354 

of beef, 295 
Galettes, 845 
Game boudins, 421 

comets of, 422 

fritters, 398 

kromeskies, 350 

medaillons of, 372 

patties, 419 

pie, 372 

Russian, 351 

souflfles, small, 419 
Garnish a la Bayard, 35 

k la Belle-Vue, 36 

k la Beufremont, 36 

k la Bignon, 36 

k la Bordelaise, 35 

k la Bourguignonne, 36 

k la Chambord, 36 

k la Chipolata, 36 

k la Fedora, 36 

k la Fermiere, 37 

k la financiere, 37 

k la Flamande, 37 

k la Florentine, 36 

k la gourmet, 37 

k la jardiniere, 3? 

a la Julienne, 37 



926 



INDEX 



Garnish h. la Mariniere, 39 

a la Matelote, 39 

a la Milanaise, 37 

k la Montebello, 38 

k la Norman de, 38 

a la Parisienne, 38 

a la proven9ale, 38 

a la reforme, 38 

a la regence, 38 

a la Rouennaise, 38 

a la Soubise, 38 

k la Windsor, 40 

Toulouse, 39 

turtle, 39 

Valencia, 39 
Gateau a I'arlequin, 810 

a la Polonaise, 727 

a la Portugaise, 812 

aux prunes, 712 

d'abricots, 807 

de citron, 807 

de noce, 802 

delice, 809 

Espagnole, 803 

riche, 809 

St. Honore, 723 

surprise, 726 

vanille, 808 
Gateaux a la Princesse, petits, 
840 

a la Tiurque, petits, 827 

au chocolat, 841 

de fruits, petits, 750 

d'oranges a la Brazil, 832 

de riz, 830 

petits, 816 
Gaufres a la vanille, 841 

Parisiennes, 842 
Gelee a la Constantine, 709 

a la Fran9aise, 709 

Napolitaine, 710 
Genoese baskets, 722 

fancy, iced, 845 
Gherkins, pickled, 901 
" Ghiac " (a Norwegian dish), 406 
Gibier, kromeskies de, 350 

medallions de, 372 
Giblet pie, 272 
Gigot d'agneau farci, 380 

de mouton bouilli aux navets, 
379 
roti aux tomates, 381 
Gimblettes Suisse, 835 
Bin sling, 210 

sloe, 909 

smash, 910 
Ginger beer, 907 

imitation, preserved, 899 

pudding, 643 

snaps, 852 
Gingerade, 910 
Gingerbread, 798, 856 

French, 822 

Scotch, 822 

white, 822 
Glace a I'amande, 636 

k I'ananas, 773 



Glace a chaud, 636 

k la creme de bananes, 770 
de fraises, 769 
de noix, 770 

k I'eau, 635 

a la grappe de Muscat, 769 

a la Nesselrode, pouding, 772 

a la Princesse, Charlotte, 772 

a la Reine, pouding, 771 

a la vanille, 769 

au chocolat, 769 

au citron, 773 

au fondant, 635 

au chocolat, 635 

au marasquin, souffle, 775 

au melon, 774 

au Moka, 769 

au pain bis, 771 

aux amandes, 771 

aux figues, pouding, 772 

aux fraises, 775 

aux framboises, 774 

aux groseilles, 774 

aux mandarines, 774 

aux poires, 774 

d'abricot, 770 
bombe, 777 

de framboises en surprise, 773 

d'orange, 771 

mousseline, bombe, 778 

NapoUtaine, 770 

royale, 635 
Glacee a la Napolitaine, oranges, 
779 

a la Venitienne, bombe, 777 

au chocolat, bombe, 778 
Glaces fantaises en surprise, 773 
Glaze for tarts, 854 
Gnocchi a la Milanese, 503 

a la Romaine, 502 

a la Russe, 502 

de pommes de terra, 502 

frit, 503 

Milan style, 503 

of potatoes, 502 

Roman style, 502 

Russian style, 502 

timbale de, 199 
Golden buck, 526 
Goose, stuffed, roast, 385 
Gooseberries, bottled, 898 
Gooseberry, cream, 746 

custard tarts, 704 

fool, 766 

jelly, 709 

pudding, 695 

souffle, 761 
Gosling, braised, peasantstyle,317 
Granite au ris de Bordeaux, 782 

d'ananas, 782 

de citron, 782 
Grondin a Tltalieime, filets de,137 

a la maitre d'hotel, filets de, 
137 

sauce Matelote, filets de, 137 
Groseilles, Charlotte de, 690 

vertes, souffle de, 761 



Grouse, braised, 390 

Spanish style, 332 
roast, 391 

sauted, Vincent style, 332 
with truffles, salmis of, 333 
Gruel, 619 

Guinea-fowl, with cress, roast, 393 

with financiere garnish, 

larded, 394 

Gurnet, Itahan style, fillets of, 137 

with maitre d'hotel sauce, 

fillets of, 137 
with Matelote sauce, fillets 
of, 137 

Haddock, baked, 148 

croquettes of, 156 

stuffed and baked, 149 
Ham border, Souvaroff style, 238 

croquettes, 250 

cutlets with eggs, 548 

mousse, 296 

on toast, devilled, 536 

pyramids, 47 

quenelles with peas, 238 

souffle, 238 
little, 295 

to cook a York, 380 

toast, 536 

with cucumbers, grilled, 535 

with Madeira, braised, 380 

with mushrooms, 535 
Hanche de venaison rotie, 382 
Hare a la Fran^aise, scollops de, 
344 

k la IMontpensier, fillets of, 
346 

border with chestnut sauce, 
345 

Chartreuse of, 346 

German style, cutlets of, 344 

haricot, 347 

jugged, 269, 345 

mousse of, 346 

roast baron of, 392 

roasted, larded, 391 

Seville style, roast, 391 

with cream, roast baron of, 
392 

with vegetables, puree of, 373 
Hareng fume, beignets de, 
Haricot bean pie, 511 

beans a la Bretonne, 512 
fried, 512 

de lievre, 347 

fritters, 511 

mutton, 257 

of hare, 347 
Haricots blancs, 459 

panaches a la maitre d'hotel, 
458 

verts a I'Anglaise, 458 
sautes, 458 
Hazel-nut butter, 32 
Herb farce, 34 

Herring-roes and mushrooms, 863 
au gratin, 869 



INDEX 



927 



Herring-roes, fritters of, 863 
on croutes, 54 
on toast, 863 
Herrings, boiled, mustard sauce, 
148 
fried, 147 
stuffed, 150 
Homard a la Cardinal, cotelettes 
de, 160 
a la Cardinal, quenelles de, 

142 
a rindienne, croquettes de, 

139 
a la Mayonnaise, fleurettes 

de, 158 
a la Newburg, 141 
a la Reine, petites timbales 

de, 164 
a la Reine, timbale de, 141 
a la St. James, 141 
a la Venitienne, mousselines 

de, 139 
au gratin, 139 
barquettes de, 49 
chaudfroid de, 173 
cotelettes de, 410 
creme de, 171 
en aspic, 164 
en fers a cheval, petits sal- 

picons de, 162 
mousse de, 158 
petites mousses de, 172 
saute a I'Hongroise, 141 
souffle de, 140 
turban de, 174 
H nitres a la Florentine, 145 

a la Montpelier, chaudfroid 

d', 170 
a la Parmentier, timbale aux, 

145 
a la Reine, 146 
au Bechamel, 146 
beignets d', 144 
bouchees aux, 145 
cotelettes aux, 146 
cromesquis aux, 147 
croquettes aux, 147 
croutons aux, 876 
en surprise, bordure d', 170 
macaroni aux, 517 
petits pains aux, 49 
souffle aux, 144 
fricassee d', 146 
Husarcnkrappen, 858 

Ice, apricot, 770 

banana cream, 770 

browTi bread, 771 

chocolate cream, 769 

coflfee, 769 

cream, almond, 771 

lemon water, 773 

melon water, 774 

muscatel grape, 76b 

Neopolitan, 770 

of raspberries, surprise, 773 

orange, 771 

PT. xn. 



Ice, pear water, 774 

pineapple water, 773 

pudding, Xesselrode style, 772 
Queen style, 771 
with figs, 772 

raspberry water, 774 

red-currant water, 774 

strawberry cream, 769 
water, 775 

Tangerine water, 774 

vanilla cream, 769 

walnut cream, 770 
Iced bombe, Venetian style, 777 

chocolate bomb, 778 

coffee souffles, little, 775 

merinuges, 780 

oranges, Neapolitan style, 779 

raspberry souffle, 775 

souffle, with Maraschino, 775 

tangerines, 780 

tea and lemon, 906 
Ices, surprise fancy, 773 

the moulding of, 768 
Icing, almond, 636 

and piping, 800 

butter, 636 

chocolate, 635 

chocolate fondant, 635 

fondant, 635 

royal, 635 

to mask a cake with, 800 

to prepare the, 800 

transparent water, 635 

warm, 636 

water, 635 
lie flottante, 758 
Invalid fruit tart, 628 

tray, an, 60S 
Irish stew, 253 
Irresistibles, 827 

Jam, blackberry, 892 

and apple, 892 
carrot, 894 
cherry, 894 
composite, 892 
damson, 892 
dried apricot, 894 
green gooseberry, 895 

marrow, 895 
pear, 893 
pineapple, 893 
plum and damson, 893 

and pear, 893 
quince, 893 
raspberry, 891 

and red currant, 891 
rhubarb, 895 

and orange, 893 
strawberry and red currant, 

891 
tomato, 895 
vegetable marrow, 894 
Victoria plum, 892 
whole strawberry, 891 
Jambon a la diable, croutes de, 
53^^ 



Jambon a la Souvaroff, bordure 
de, 238 
au petits pois, quenelles de, 

238 
aux champignons, 535 
aux oeufs, cotelettes de, 548 
braise au Madere, 380 
croquettes de, 250 
croutes au, 536 
grille aux concombres, 535 
. mousse de, 296 
petits souffles au, 295 
pyramides de, 47 
souffle au, 238 
Jellies, apple, 620, 708 
Jelly a la Fran9aise, 709 
apple, 896 
blackberry, 897 
black currant, 896 
calf's foot, 621, 706 
Constantine style, 709 
crab-apple, 896 
egg, 622, 709 
gooseberry, 709 
grape, 897 

green gooseberry, 897 
lemon, 621, 706 
Maraschino, 708 
milk, 622 
Neapolitan, 710 
orange, 622, 707 
port wine, 022, 708 
quince, 896 
raspberry, 896 
red currant, 896 
strengthening, 625 
white currant, 897 
Jerusalem artichokes au gratin, 
432 
au risotto, 431 
boiled, 430 
fried, 430 
fritters, 432 
Italian style, 430 
stuffed, 432 

with Espagnole sauce, 
431 
John Dory, Genoise style, fillets 

ofi 138 
Joint, to bake a, 253 
to boil a, 253 
to roast a, 253 
Jugged venison a la Parisienne, 

348 
Julieime, 58 
Jumbles, lemon, 832 
Junket, 629 

Kedgeree, 153 

Kidney and potato border, 191 

quenelles with risotto, 190 

toasts, 860 
Kidneys and bacon, grilled, 518 

and mushrooms, stewed, 517 

Connaught style, 189 

devilled, 518 

epicure style, 190 

59 



928 



INDEX 



Kidnej^, French style, 188 

giiUed, 191 

on croutes, 190 

Bauted, Carvalho style, 191 
Hungarian style, 191 
Madeira sauce, 191 
with champange, 189 

Turbigo style, 171 

Turk style, 518 

with macaroni, 517 

withmaitred'h6telbutter,518 

with potatoes, 519 

with potatoes, little bouches 
of, 242 
quenelles of, 516 

with tomatoes, 519 

with tomatoes and rice, 619 
Kromeskies de Gibier, 350 

of game, 350 

Laitances de harengs au gratin, 
869 
aux champignons, 863 
beignets de, 863 
croiites de, 863 
sur croutes, 54 
Laitues a la Genoise, 52 
k rindienne, 52 
bouiUies, 459 
braisees au Jus, 459 
farcies, 459 
Lamb, blanquette of, 179 
cutlets, cold, 285 

Strasburg style, 285 
with vegetables, 286 
Constance style, 285 
Duchess style, 175 
Maltese style, 176 
Massena style, 176 
Navarraise style, 177 
Princess style, 177 
St. Menehould style, 176 
stuffed, Perigueux sauce, 

177 
with black butter, 175 
with cucumber, 175 
with fine herbs, 175 
with Parmesan, 179 
with risotto, 178 
with spring vegetables, 

178 
with Villeroy sauce, 179 
epigrammes of, 180 
Mirepoix style, noisettes of, 

180 
sauted, Printanier style, 178 
stuffed leg of, 380 
Valois style, noisettes of, 181 
with fine herbs, noisettes of, 

180 
with vegetables, epigrammes 
of, 180 
Lamb's sweetbread souvenirs, 286 
sweetbreads in bouches, 246 
rissolettes of, 246, 251 
with artichoke bottoms, 
252 



Lamb's sweetbreads, with peas, 
mould of, 21'2 
tongues, Duxelle style, 181 
Langue de bceuf au Madere, 377 
froid, 377 
pyramides de, 47 
roti, 377 
sur canapes, 46 
Langues a I'Espagnole, petites, 
240, 296 
d'Agneau a la Duxelle, 181 
de Chat, 829 
Lapin a la financiere, grenadines 
de, 315 
a ritalierme, 315 
k la Peine, darioles de, 315 
a la Venetienne, 313 
au Spaghetti, 314 
Gibelotte de, 314 
saute aux tomates, 314 
Larks au gratin, 343 

crumbed and roasted, 393 

in cases, 371 

Italian style, croustades of, 

343 
roast, 394 
supreme style, little timbales 

of, 344 

with mushrooms, 342 

Leeks au gratin, 464 

boiled, 465 

braised, 464 

with croutons, puree of, 464 
Legumes a la Normande, timbale 
de, 499 
en aspic, petites darioles de, 
494 
Lemon cheesecakes, 700 
granite, 782 
jelly, 621, 706 
pudding, 647 

baked, 638 
souffle, 672 
sponge, 767 
squash, 910 
sjmip, 912 
irhey, 632 
Lemonade, 629 

summer, 909 
Lentil cutlets, 396 

(without meat), 510 
rissoletti, 510 
Lentils a la maitre d'hotel, 511 
and tomatoes au gratia, 510 
curried, 511 

maitre d'hotel style, 511 
with rice, 510 
Les anges a cheval, 864 

diables k cheval, 864 
Lettuce with gravy, braised, 459 
Lettuces, boiled, 459 
Genoese style, 52 
Indian style, 52 
stuffed, 459 
Lievre a I'Allemande, cotelettes 
de, 344 
k la creme, table de, 392 



Liovre a la Fran9aise, escallopeh 
de, 344 

k la jardiniere, pain de, 373 

k la Montpensier, filets de, 346 

a la puree de marrons, bor- 
dure de, 345 

Chartreuse of, 346 

civet de, 345 

haricot de, 347 

mousse de, 346 

pique, 391 

roti a la Seville, 391 
rable de, 392 
Liqueur, damson, 909 
Little timbales of larks, supreme 

style, 344 
Liver and bacon, 267 

braised, calf's, 215 

Spanish style, calf's, 215 
Lobster au gratin, 139 

boat shapes of, 49 

croquettes with curry sauce, 
139 

croutes, little, 872 

cutlets, 140 

mousse, 158 

Newburg style, 141 

patties, 142 

quenelles with Cardinal sauce, 
142 

St. James style, 141 

sauted, Hungarian style, 141 

scallop, 149 

souffle, 140 

timbale. Queen's style, 

with Mayonnaise, darioles of, 
158 

with Venetian sauce, dariol« 
moulds of, 139 
Longe de veau braise, 378 
Love wells, 826 

Macaroni a la Bolognese, 507 

a I'Espagnole, 508 

a la Genevais, 515 

k I'ltaUenne, 506 

and ham, 520 

au gratin, 507 

aux huitres, 517 

aux marrons, 507 

aux rognons, 517 

Bologne style, 507 

cakes, 524 

cheese, 507 

croquettes, 508 

Geneva style, 315 

Italian style, 506 

pudding, 679 

Spanish style, 508 

with chestnuts, 5*^7 

with kidneys, 517 

with oysters, 517 
Macarons de Nancy, 843 
Macaroon, English, 842 
Macaroons, chocolate, 843 

cocoanut, 843 

coffee, 844 



INDEX 



929 



Macaroons, fritters of, 683 
hazel-nut, 843 
Nancy, 843 
Macedoine de fruits a la creme,752 
en gelee, 752 
of fruit in jelly, 752 
■with cream, 752 
Mackerel, boiled, gooseberry 
sauce, 135 
fillets with black butter 

sauce, 135 
soused, 148 
Maids of honour, 700 
Mandarines de faisan, 365 

glacees, 780 
jklaquereau bouilli, sauce gro- 
seilles, 135 
sauce au beurre noir, filets de, 
135 
Marinade, 41 

ilarmalade and raisin pudding, 
646 
orange, 890 
peach, 894 
pudding, 643 
Tangerine, 891 
^arrons a la creme, bordure de, 
720 
au jus, 460 
Charlotte de, 755 
creme de, 712 
croquettes de, 686 
dariolettes aux, 721 
farrow bones, 534 
croustades, 535 
M''iuviettes a I'ltalienne, crous- 
tades de, 343 
a la supreme, petites tim- 

balcs de, 344 
au gratin, 343 
aux champignons, 342 
en caisses, 371 
panees, 393 
roties, 394 
♦Jayonnaise de volaille, 360 
a la Princesse, 359 
of chicken, 360 

Princess style, 359 
♦leat and onion dumplings, 405 
and potato croquettes, 404 
and tomato pie, 527 
croquettejg, 400 
fritters, 397 
Meat-glaze, 40 

pancakes, 397 
patties, 273 
Medallions d'anchois, 47 

de faisan a la supreme, 326 
de foie-gras, 365 
deGibier, 372 
de poularde a I'ambassadrice, 

352 
de saumon a la Montpellier, 
159 
Medallions of capon, ambassa- 
dress style, 352 
of chicken, Princess style, 305 



Medallions of foie-gras, 365 
Medallons of pheasant, supreme 

sauce, 326 
Melettes f rites, 135 
Melon en surprise, 724 
Meringues, 720 

k la creme, Shrewsbury, 721 
fancy, 836 
glacees, 780 

with cream, Shrewsbury, 721 
Merlan a I'Anglaise, 130 
a la colbert, 130 
a la Hollandaise, paupiettes 

de, 129 
a I'Horly, 129 
a la ravigote, quenelles de, 

128 
souffle de, 128 
Merlans brochettes, filets de, 130 
Milk and egg, 631 
barley, 631 
jelly, 622 
Mincemeat, 648 
Mint julep, 909 
Mirepoix, 40 
Mousse a 1' Ananas, 776 

de chou-fleur a la Dubarry, 

447 
de crabe en aspic, 173 
de homard, 158 
de lievre, 346 

de saumon a I'lndienne, 171 
de volaille a la royale, 356 

froide, 360 
of cauliflower, Dubarry style, 

447 
of chicken, cold, 360 
royal style, 356 
of ham, 296 
of hare, 346 
of pineapple, 776 
of veal, 291 
Mousseline de saumon k la 
Victoria, 99 
de homard a la Venitienne, 
139 
Mousses au chocolat, 761 
au rhum, 726 
d'artichauts, petites, 490 
de faisarL, 330 
de homard, petites, 172 
de petits pois, 496 
of pheasant, 330 
of rum, 776 
Mouton a la bonne femme, cote- 
lettes de, 186 
a la Brctonne, cotelettes d', 

181 
a la choron, noisettes de, 187 
k la Comtesse, cotelettes de, 

184 
k rindienne, cotelettes de, 

287 
a la maintenon, cotelettes de, 

185 
k la Nelson, cotelettes de, 
185 



Mouton a la Pompadour, cote- 
lettes de, 184, 287 
a la Hipon, cotelettes de, 288 
a la Russe, cotelettes de, 184 
a la Souvaroff, noisettes de, 

186 
a la Suedoise, cotelettes de, 

186 
a la Venetienne, cotelettes 

de, 184 
aux tomates, noisettes de,187 
boliilli aux navets, gigot de, 

379 
braise a la jardiniere, carr6 

de, 382 
en aspic, cotelettes de, 288 
farcie, epaule de, 381 
Montgomery, noisettes de, 

187 
roti aux tomates, gigot de, 
381 
selle de, 380 
Mulled wine, 632 
Mullets braised with tomato 

sauce, 136 
Mullet with Bordeaux sauce, 
fillets of, 136 
with Italian sauce, fillets of, 
136 
Mushroom baskets, 446, 883 
Mushrooms, 833 
and eggs, 543 
Bordeaux style, 445 
croquettes of, 44c 
devilled, 445 
in butter, 444 
in cream, 444 
in shells, baked, 446 
on toast, 866 
Provence style, 445 
sauted, 444 
stuffed, 444 
Mutton au gratin, 422 
broth, 610 

Choron style, noisettes of, 187 
cutlets, 260 

Breton style, 181 
Countess style, 184 
housewife's stj-le, 186 
in aspic, 288 
Maintenon style, 185 
Kelson style, 185 
Pompadour style, 184, 

287 
Ripon style, 288 
Russian, 184 
Swedish style, 186 
Venetian style, 184 
Indian style, cutlets of, 287 
Montgomery stvle, noisettes 

of, 187 
pilau of cold, 423 
roast saddle of, 380 . 
scallops of, 423 
Sauvaroff style, noisettes of, 

186 
stuffed and rolled, loin of, 2C7 
-o o 



930 



INDEX 



Mutton, stuffed shoulder of, 381 
with tomato, noisettes of, 187 
with tomatoes, roast leg of, 

381 
with turnips, boiled leg of, 379 
with vegetables, braised neck 

of, 382 

Navets a la creme, puree de, 460 
a la poulette, 461 
au gratin, 460 
farcis, 461 
Nectar, Welsh, 908 
Negus, barley, 632 
port-wine, 632 
Nests of foie-gras, 54 
Nid de pommes de terre aux 

petits pois, 469 
Nids de foie-gras, 54 
Noisettes a la sevigne, 188 

d'Agneau a la mirepoix, 180 
a la valois, 181 
aux fines herbes, 180 
de chevreuil aux concombres, 

349 
de mouton a la Choron, 187 
a la Souvaroff, 186 
aux tomates, 187 
Montgomer}', 187 
of venison with cucumber, 

349 
Sevigne style, 
y Noix de veau a la Palestine, 379 
Nouilles a I'Espagnole, 510 
au gratin, 509 

Oatcakes, Scotch, 848 
ffiufs a la Bordelaise, 559 
a la Comtesse, 560 
a la creme, 543 
a I'ecarlate, 559 
a la Florentine, 557 
a la Garfield, 548 
a la Garigen, 543 
a la Genoese, 549 
a ritalienne, 549 
a la Lyonnaise, 550 
a la maitre d'hotel, 550 
a la Mortemart, 557 
k la Neige, 719 
k la Parisienne, 557 
k la Polonaise, croustade d', 

554 
a la Princesse, 558 
a la printanier, 559 
k la Peine, 553 
k la Suisse, 554 
k la ti'ipe, 554 
a la Turque, 553 
au gratin, 557 
aux champignons, 551 
aux jambon, 548 
aux nouilles et jambon, 550 
aux sardines, cotelettes d', 

884 
aux tomates, 48 
bonnes-bouches au?;, 551 



CEufs, chaudfroid a I'Andalouae, 
560 
k I'Argenteuil, 561 
a la Chartreuse, 560 
a la Russe, 561 
a la tranon, 561 
colinette, 562 

coquilles d', 554 

cotelettes aux, 551 

cromesquis aux, 550 

croquettes aux, 556 

croutes aux, 876 

d'anchois, 865 

denises d', 881 

en aspic, 562 

en caisses, 555 

en casserole, 555 

a la Jeanne, 555 
a la Mornay, 556 
aux champignons, 556 
aux epinards, 556 

en chaudfroid, 5C0 

en surprise, 738 

et fonds d'artichauts, 553 

farcis a I'anchois, 562 
sur tomates, 877 

fricassee d', 553 

frits a la bonne femme, 551 
a la Portugaise, 541 
a la Provengale, 541 
au bourre noir, 541 

mollets a la Bechamel, 558 

petits choux aux, 542 

poches a I'anchois, 544 
a I'aurore, 546 
a la Bourguignonne, 546 
a la Clamart, 546 
a la Coquelin, 546 
a la Duchesse, 544 
a la Mornay, 545 
a la tomate, 547 
au celeri, 544 
aux asperges, 545 
en berceau, 545 

risotto aux, 547 

rissoles d', 556 

sur le plat, 520 
Oie rotie, farcie, 385 
Oignons a la creme, 461 

au gratin, 462 

aux spaghetti, petits, 462 

d'Espagne a la demi-glace, 
463 
bouillis, 462 

farcis, 462 
Giselle, puree d', 461 
Oison braise a la paysanne, 317 
Olive and caper canapes, 860 
Olives a I'Espagnole, 55 

a la diable, 867 

a la Madras, 49 

a la Montpellier, 45 

a la Nantua, 44 

aux ceufs, 885 

devilled, 867 

en aspic, 44 

farois aux marrons, 887 



Olives in aspic, 44 

Madras style, 49 

Nantua style, 44 

Spanish style, 55 

stuffed with chestnuts, 887 

with eggs, 885 

with Montpellier butter, 46 
Omelet a la Proven9ale, 566 

anchovy, 570 

asparagus, 569 

Bordeaux, 566 

brain, 570 

Celestine style, 688 

cheese, 564 

Clamart style, 567 

cucumber, 569 

curry, 566 

farmer's style, 567 

friar's, 654 

Gruy^re cheese, 667 

ham, 566 

kidney, 565 

leek, 567 

lentil, 570 

lobster, 569 

onion, 568 

oyster, 566 

peasant style, 565 

plain, 564 

rum, 688 

sardine, 566 

savoury, 563 

souflSe, 623 

souftlee, 689 

Stephanie style, 689 

spinach, 568 

sweet, 688 

to shape an, 563 

with apples, 689 

with artichoke bottoms, 569 

with cream, 571 

with croutons, 570 

with jam, souflHee, 689 

with mushrooms, 566 

with potatoes, 568 
Omelets, rules for making, 563 

with tongue, little, 564 
Omelette a la Bordelaise, 566 

a la Celestine, 688 

a la cervelle, 570 

a la Clamart, 567 

a la creme, 571 

a la fermiere, 567 

k la Gruyere, 567 

a I'lndienne, 566 

a la Parmentier, 568 

a la paysanne, 565 

a la Proven9ale, 565 

au homard, 569 

au jambon, 566 

au Parmesan, 564 

au rhum, 688 

aux anohois, 570 

aux asperges, 569 

aux champignons, 565 

aux concombres, 569 

aux croutons, 57*' 



INDEX 



931 



Omelette aux epinards, 568 

aux fines herbes, 563 

aui fonds d'artichauts, 569 

aux huitres, 566 

aux lentilles, 570 

aux oignons, 568 

aux poireaux, 567 

aux pommes, 689 

aux rognons, 565 

aux sardines, 566 

naturelle, 564 

souffle en surprise, 779 

souffl^ee, 689 

a la confiture, 689 
a la Stephanie, 689 
Omelettes a I'ecai late, petites, 564 
Onions au gratin, 462 

pickled, 901 

Btuffed, 46k: 

^th cream, 4G1 

with demi -glace sauce, 
Spanish, 463 

with poached eggs, fried, 528 

with spaghetti, small, 462 
Oreuige and ratafia pudding, 666 

and rice meringue, 665 

Chartreuse, 741 

Baroness style, 741 
d', 741 

cheesecakes, 699 

cream, 627, 740 
surprise, 741 

cr^me a 1', 740 

custard tarts, 704 

en surprise, creme d', 741 

fritters, 682 

jelly, 622, 707 

pudding, 665 

rissoles, 687 

souffle, 673, 759 

syrup, 912 

tart, 696 
Oranges a la Baronne, Chartreuse 
d', 741 

a la Fran9aise, 741 

au caramel, 740 

beignets d', 682 

compote of, 629 

French style, 741 

rissoles d', 687 

souffle d', 673, 759 

surprise, 779 

surprises d', 779 

with caramel, 740 

•with cocoanut, 740 
Ortolans, 393 
Ox-kidney, stewed, 257 
Ox- palates, financiere style, 236 

Lyonnaise style, 237 

with peas, fricassee of, 237 
Ox-tail, bourgeoise style, 236 

fried, 534 

with Beamaise sauce, 235 

with cauliflower, 236 
Ox-tongue, braised, 271 

cold, 377 

on croiites, 46 



Ox-tongue, roast, 377 

upon toast, 46 

with Madeira sauce, 377 
Oyster and potato mould, 146 

cromeskies, 147 

croquettes, 147 

cutlets, 146 

fritters, 144 

patties, 145 

souffle, 144 

toast, 867 
Oysters, 42 

Florentine, style, 145 

in crusts, 870 

little moulds of, 49 

macaroni with, 517 

Queen's style, 146 

scalloped, 613 

stewed, 146 

with Bechamel sauce, 146 

Pain, beignets de, 682 

de fraises, 746 

de lievre a la jardiniere, 373 

de perdreaux aux olives, 323 
Panais a la creme, 463 

croquettes de, 463 

frits, 463 
Pancakes, 685 

French, 685 

Norman style, 685 

stuffed, 688 
Parfait au cafe, 777 

au the, 777 

de fraises, 776 

of coffee, 777 

of strawberries, 776 

of tea, 777 
Parkins, Yorkshire, 823 
Parmesan balls, 887 
Parsley and other herbs to pre- 
serve, 905 
Parsnips a la creme, 463 

croquettes of, 463 

fried, 463 
Partridge, boiled, with celery 
sauce, 320 

cassolettes of, 421 

celestines of, 367 

Colbert style, grilled cutlets 
of, 320 

crepinettes, 324 

in cases, fillets of, 322 

pie, 321 

with mushrooms, 421 

with turnips, 322 
Partridges, braised, 282 

St. Clair style, 323 
with cabbage, 319 

Countess stj'le, breasts of, 321 

Crapaudine style, 387 

Duchess style, breasts of, 323 

fried, Portuguese style, 319 

Parisian style, roast, 387 

pastry case of, 321 

Perigueux sauce, braised, 38C 

rechauffe of, 422 



Partridges, roast, 387 

sauted, hunter's style, 322 
with Madeira, 319 

souffle of, 320 

with Madeira, breasts of, 321 

with mushrooms, roast, 386 

with olives, shape of, 323 

with poivrade sauce, stuffed, 
387 

with tomato sauce, 320 
Paste, cassolette, 637 

clioux, 637 

nouille, 225 
Pastry, chocolate, 856 

custards, 703 

Genoese, 817 

puff, 036 

rolls, 241 

rough puff, 636 

short, 636 
Pate a brioche, 637 

a pates, 637 

de perdreaux, 321 

de faisan, 325 

de foie-gras, 318 

de pommes dc terre, 478' 
Patties, game, 419 

of calf's head, 217 

of cold meat. 399 

of foie-gra«, 318 

of pheasant, 325 

Russian, 424 
Paupiettcs dc choux farcis, 449 

de merlan a la Hollandaiso, 
129 
Peach compote, 735 

croiites, 735 

cups, 780 

medallions, Turkish style, 738 

pudding, 008 

souffle, 770 
Peaches, Cardinal style, 736 

croustade of, 668 

croutons of, 668 

Cussy style, 669 

Macedoine of, 735 

Melba, 779 

Ninette, 734 
Pear Charlotte, 754 

croquettes, 688 

compote of, 6('9 
Pears, compote of, CG9 

Conde style, 732 

Countess style, 732 

Florentine style, 731 

in jelly, border of, 733 

Marquise. 731 

meringued. 069 

solferino, 733 

Sultan style, 733 

timbale of, 691 

with cream, border of, 734 

with rice, 069 
Peas, baskets of. 466 

bottled, 899 

darioles of. 494 

English style, 465 



932 



INDEX 



Peas, little mousses of, 496 
little souffles of, 465 
peasant style, green, 465 
with butter, green, 466 
Peches a la Cardinale, 735 
a la Cussy, 669 
a la Ninette, 734 
a la Turque, medaillons de, 

736 
compote de, 735 
croustade de, 668 
croutes de, 735 
croutons de, 668 
Macedoine de, 735 
Melba, 779 
pouding aux, 668 
Perdreau aux navets, 322 

bouilli, sauce au celeri, 320 
celestines de, 367 
crepinettes de, 324 
en caisses, filets de, 322 
Perdreaux a la Comtesse, poitrines 
de, 321 
a la Crapaudine, 387 
k la Ducbesse, poitrines de, 

323 
a la Maderc, poitrines de, 321 
a la tomate, 320 
aux olives, pain de, 323 
braises, 282 

a la Perigreux, 386 
a la St. Clair, 323 
aux choux, 319 
croustade de, 321 
farcis, sauce jooivrade, 387 
frits a la Portugaise, 319 
grilles a la Colbert, cotelettes 

de, 320 
pate de, 321 
rotis, 387 

a la Parisienne, 387 
aux champignons, 386 
Bautes a la Chasseur, 322 

a la Madere, 319 
soufHe de, 320 
Perdrix braises, 341 

quenelles de, 341 
Petites barquettes de saumon, 164 
bateaux aux ecrevisses, 879 
bombes de tomates, 501 

de volaille a la Victoria, 
358 
bouchees a la chasseur, 239 
de faisan k la modeme, 

248 
de rognons a la Parmen- 
tier, 242 
caisses de concombre farcis, 

55 
cremes a la Princesse, 718 
de faisan, 367 
de volaille, 359 

k la Juliette, 355 
oroustades de ris de veau, 244 
crofites de homard, 872 
darioles k la Duxelle, 243 
de legumes en aspic, 494 



Petites langues a I'Espagnole, 
296 
Marquises au merluche, 883 
mousses d'artichauts, 490 

de homard, 172 
timbales de boeuf a la bet- 
terave, 294 
de carottes, 440 
de choux-fieur, 447 
d'ecrivisses a la Re- 
forme, 171 
d'epinards, 455 
de filets de soles, 168 
de foies de volaille, 252 
de Genoise en gelee, 720 
de homard k la Russe, 

164 
de mauviettes a la su- 
preme, 344 
de pigeon a la supreme, 

313 
de ris de veau aux 

epinards, 213 
de saumon, 94 
de soles a la modeme, 

120 
de veau a la Richelieu, 

250 
de volaille, 242 

a la Chartreuse, 354 
a la HoUandaise, 359 
Petits choux a la Reine, 50 
au caramel, 828 
au fromage, 864 
choux aux ceufs, 542 
glace a la creme, 828 
pralines, 828 
gateaux a la Princesse, 840 
a la Turque, 827 
de fruits, 750 
oignons aux spaghetti, 462 
pains aux huitres, 49 
paniers a la jardiniere, 492 
pois a I'Anglaise, 465 
a la paysanne, 465 
au beurre, 466 
corbeilles aux, 466 
darioles de, 494 
mousses of, 496 
petits souffles de, 465 
poussins rotis, 395 
salpicons de homard en fers 

a cheval, 162 
souffles a I'ecarlate, 294 
k la tomate, 483 
au jambon, 295 
aux epinards, 455 
de foies de volaille, 251 
de merluche fum6, 862 
de Moka, 775 
de petits pois, 465 
de volaille a la finan- 
ciere, 242 
en caisses, 251 
Potencies k I'lndienne, 143 
au gratin, 144 
frits, 144 



Pheasant a la Maintenon, filleta 
of, 327 
boiled, 390 
braised, 389 

with chestnuts, 327 
chaudfroid of, 366 
creams, httle, 367 
cutlets, Richelieu style, 328 
epigrammes of, 331 
fillets, en chaudfroid, 366 
stuffed with spinach, 326 
with financiere garnish, 

326 
with green sauce, 329 
galantine, 365 
good-wife style, 324, 389 
hashed, 420 
hunter's style. Chartreuse of, 

324 
in aspic, 366 
mandarins of, 365 
modem style, little bouchea 

of, 248 
mousses of, 330 
Normal style, 389 
patties, 325 
Russian style, 332 
Saint Alliance style, 390 
St. George style, 331 
sauted with Perigueux sauce, 

329 
scollops in cases, 328 
Stanley style, boudins of, 330 
stuffed with mushrooms, 

roast, 388 
with cream, 389 
with cress, roast, 388 
with Madeira, friandines of, 

325 
with supreme sauce, medal- 
lions of, 326 
Pickle, beetroot, 902 

for beef, tongue, etc., 904 
lady's dehght, 901 
lemon, 904 
melon, 903 
red cabbage, 902 
walnut, 902 
Pickled eggs, 903 

nasturtium-seeds, 903 
Pickles, mixed, 902 
Pie, a tasty, 401 

Pi^ce de boeuf a la jardiniere, 
375 
braise a la Flamande, 
374 
Pieds de veau a I'Orly, 216 
en fricassee, 216 
frits, 215 
Pigeon k la supreme, petites tim- 
bales de, 313 
Pigeons k la Boh^mienne, chaud- 
froid de, 363 
k la bourgeoise, compote de, 

311 
k I'Espagnole, 313 
k la financiere, 312 



INDEX 



933 



Pigeons, Bohemian style, chaud- 
froid of, 363 
bourgeoise style, compote of, 

311 
compote de, 311 
farcis k la Duchesse, cote- 

lettes de, 312 
financier style, 312 
rotis farcis aux marrons, 388 
stuffed. Duchess style, cutlets 

of, 312 
stuffed with chestnuts, roast, 

388 
supreme style, little timbales 
of, 313 
Pig's feet stuffed, 536 

■with sausage, 537 
with mushrooms, stuffed, 
537 
Pilau offish, 151 
of fowl. 279 
Pineapple Charlotte, 756 
cream, 748 
Creole style, 670 
Frankfort style, 748 
fritters, 681 
granite, 782 
pudding, 670 
cold, 749 
rum pimch, 911 
snow. 766 
souffle, 675 
syrup, 912 

with cream, flawn of, 747 
Pintade pique a la financiere, 394 

rotie au cresson, 393 
Pitcaithl}' bannocks, 824 
Plaice, casserole of, 150 
fried, 130 

Indian style, fillets of, 130 
Perigourcline, fillets of, 131 
stewed fillets of 131 
with Espagnole sauce, fillets 

of, 132 
with white wine, fillets of, 132 
Plie au vin blanc, filets de, 132 
a I'Espagnole, filets de, 132 
a rindienne, filets de, 130 
a la Perigourdine, filets de, 

131 
fricassee, filets de, 131 
Plovers, braised, 340 

eggs a la Moscovite, 62 
in aspic, 51 
Moscovite style, 52 
plain, 51 
roasted 340, 
with white wine, 340 
Pluviers au vin blanc, 340 
braises, 340 
rotis, 340 
Pointes d'asperges en petits pois, 

434 
Poireaux au gratin, 464 

aux croutons, pur6e de, 464 

bouillis, 465 

braises k I'EspagnoIe, 464 



Poires a la Comtesse, 732 

k la Conde, 732 

a la creme, bordure de, 734 

a la Florentine, 731 

k la Marquise, 731 

au riz, 669 

Charlotte de, 754 

compote de, 669 

croquettes de, 688 

en gelee, bordure de, 733 

froids a la Sultane, 733 

meringuees, 669 

solferino, 733 

timbale de, 691 
Poisson a la chiftonade, coquilles 
de, 163 

croutes de, 152 

ponding de, 151 
Poitrines de canard sauvage a 
I'orange, 338 

de Perdreaux a la Comtesse, 
321 
a la Duchesse, 323 
a la JIadere, 321 
Polish game pie, 350 
Pommes a I'Americaine, 660 

a la Conde, 661 

a la creme, 728 

a la Florentine, 661, 728 

a la Moscovite, 729 

a la Parisienne, 660 

a la Portugaise, 661 

k la Reine, timbale de, 731 

a la royale, 727 

a la Russe, 659 

a la Viennoise, 729 

au beurre, 600 

casserole de, 659 

Charlotte de, 691 

de terre a la Barigoulc, 479 
a la bourgeoise, 478 
a la Parisienne, 194 
a la Crapaudine, 476 
a la Dauphine, 477 
a la Duchesse, 474 
k I'EspagnoIe, 478 
k la gastronome, 479 
a la Hongroise, 480 
a rindienne, 480 
a ritahenne, 475 
a la Lyonnaise, 475 
a la maitre d'hotel, 471 
k la minute, 479 
k la mndeme, timbale 

de, 471 
k la Princesse, 479 
k la Richelieu, 520 
a la Turque, 480 
alluraettes, 477 
Anna, 470 
au lard, 477 
aux betteraves, 481 
aux petits pois, nid de, 

469 
Cannelon de, 513 
chateau, 473 
croquettes of, 468 



Pommes de terre, croustade de, 
474 
Doria, 477 
en Copeaux, 247 
farcies, 476 

al'Imp^riale, 473 
aux fines herbes,476 
aux tomates, 471 
fondantes, 470 
fricasse de, 512 
frites a la Julienne, 468 
hachees au gratin, 478 
Marquise, 472 
mireille, 472 
mirette, 472 
noisettes, 473 
nouvelle, 838 
panees, 470 
pates de 479 
piquantes, 481 
puree de, 467 
quenelles de, 474 
sautees a la Parisienne, 
470 
timbale de, 469 
souffle de, 475 
timbale de, 481 
en surprise, 838 
froid, Ninon, flan de, 728 
meringuees, 663 
omelette aux, 689 
pouding diplomate aux, 730 
souffles, 408 
souffles de, 676 
Pore a la Flamande, cotelettes de, 
238 
a la Soubise, cotelettes de, 237 
sauce piquante, cotelettes de, 
237 
Pork a la Hollandiase, cold, 424 
cutlets, Flemish style, 238 
with onion sauce, 237 
with piquante sauce, 237 
pie, 256 
Porridge, 521 
Port -wine jelly, 622, 708 
Pot-au-feu, 57 
Potage a I'Andalouse, 93 
k I'Aurore, 75 
k la Bagration, 93 
k la bonne femme, 77 
k la Chinoise, 92 
k la Crecy, 69 
k la Duchesse, 85, 02 
k la Hollandiase, 77 
k ritalienne, 85 
a la Mer, 93 
k rOsftille, 72 
k la Pluche, 78 
a la Reine, 81 
k la Royale, 81 
a la St. Germain, 78 
k la tortue fausse, 82 
k la Windsor, 80 
Andalouse, 76 
au lait, 87 
au riz, 80 



934 



INDEX 



Potage au tapioca, 80 
aux Abatis, 81 
aux Rognons, 82 
Camelia, 76 
Cressoniere, 70 
Criterion, 76 
d'Artois, 75 
de faisan, 85 
de lapin a I'lndicnne, 84 
a la Reine, 83 
bnm, 84 
de legumes, 71 

de perdreau a la mancelle, 85 
de pordreaux, 83 
de preds de veau, 78 
de pois a I'ltalienne, 72 
de puree lievre, 81 
de queues de bo?uf, 82 
de sante, 79 
des ambassadeurs, 75 
faubonne, 77 
fontange, 76 
Leopold, 76 
Mercedes, 74 

mulligataA\Tiy de volaille, 86 
Orleans, 86 
Provengale, 92 
regence, 78 
Solferino, 79 
Suedois, 79 
Suisse, 79 
velours, 80 
Potato and apple pudding, 656 
balls, 468 
cake, fried, 480 
cassolettes of, 403 
chips, 467 

modem style, timbales of, 471 
patties, 479 

pudding, 655 

quenelles, 474 

roll, 513 

shape, 481 

snow, 478 

souffle, 674 

strips, 477 

turnovers, 403 
Potatoes a la maitre d'hotel, 471 

a la minute, 479 

Anna, 470 

au gratin, chopped, 478 

baked, 467 

Barigoule style, 479 

boiled, 467 

bourgeoise style, 478 

chateau, 473 

croquettes of, 408 

crumbed, 470 

crust of, 474 

Dauphin style, 477 

Doria, 477 

Duchess, 474 

French style, baked, 476 

fricasse of, 512 

gastronome style, 479 

Hungarian style, 480 

iiLperial style, 473 



Potatoes, Indian style, 480 
ItaUan style, 475 
Julienne, fried, 468 
Lyonnaise style, 475 
Marquise, 472 
mashed, 467 
melting, 470 
mireille, 472 
mirette, 472 
new, 467 
noisettes, 473 
Parisian, 194 

Parisian style, sauted, 470 
Princess style, 479 
ribbon, 472 
Richelieu style, 520 
scalloped, 513 
souffle of, 475 
souffled, 468 
Spanish style, 47& 
stuffed, 476 

\nth fine herbs, 4/5 
surprise, 404 
timbale of, sauted, 469 
Turk style, 480 
with bacon, 477 
with beetroot, 481 
with green peas, nest of, 469 
with piquant sauce, 481 
with tomatoes, stuffed, 471 
Potted anchovies, 905 
chicken. 905 
ham, 906 
hare, 906 
lobster, 905 
ox-tongue, 905 
pheasant, 906 
shrimps or prawns, 905 
Pouding a la diplomate, 723 
a la Nesselrode, 649 
a la Normande, 659 
au chocolat meringue, 657 
au pain noir, 651 
aux peches, 668 
de bananes, 667 
de poisson, 151 
de riz meringue, 677 
diplomate aux pommes, 730 
moussline, 675 
Saxon, 657 
souffle a rindienne, 675 

a la parmentier, 674 

a la paysanne, 676 

a la Reine, 676 

a la royale, 671 
Viennoise, 651 
Poularde a I'ambassadrice, me- 
dallions de, 352 
a I'Aurore, 304 
a la poulette, 383 
a la Princesse, medallions de, 

305 
au vert-pre, 383 
aux champignons, 38? 
rotie, 381 
souffle, 301 
a la royale, 384 



Poularde a la catalane, 303 
Poulardes a la royale, 384 
Poulet a la Catalane, 303 

a la Nancy, barquettes de,309 
bouilU, 381 
Crapaudine, 303 
fricasse de, 308 
frit a la Villeroi, 301 
grille a la diable, 303 

a I'ltalienne, 303 
Portugaise, 302 
roti aux cressons, 382 
saute a la chasseur, 298 
a la creme, 299 
a la Doria, 298 
a la forestiere, 299 
a la Hongroise, 299 
a la Marengo, 299 
a la Portugaise, 300 
a la Princesse, 300 
a la Stanley, 300 
aux fines herbes, 298 
Poulets a I'opera, filets de, 302 
Poussins a la Portugaise, 308 

a la Viennoise, 308 
Prawn croules, 880 
Prawns, Cardinal style, crusts of, 
46 
cassolettes of, 525 
Prune Charlotte, 693 
jelly, 623 
pudding, 646 
souffle, 674 
Prunes a la Montpellier, 42 
a la Russe, 749 
a la Strasbourgeoise, 42 
croutes de, 749 
farcis aux anchois, 43 
aux foie-gras, 43 
gateau aux, 712 
Russian style, 749 
souffle aux, 674 
stuffed with anchovies, 43 

with foie-gras, 43 
with Montpellier butter, 42 
Ptarmigan, braised, 341 

quenelles of, 341 
Pudding, apple and Florador, 662 
and sago, 679 
apricot, 639 
bachelor's, 639 
baked almond, 638 
apple, 694 
custard, 622 
lemon, 638 
raisin, 6Mk 
rice, 678 
suet, 639 
banana, 667 
Baroness, 643 
bird's-nest, 764 
boiled batter, 65i 

bread, 648 
bread-and-butter, 650 
bread-and-treacle, 64fl 
brown-bread, 651 
cabmet, 655 



INDEX 



935 



Padding, caramel, 656 
carrot, 646 
chestnut, 649 
chocolate, 642 

and rice, 680 
Christmas plum-, 648 
cocoanut, 639 
cold cabinet, 765 

pineapple, 749 

rhubarb, 763 
conservatiye, 651 
Cornish, 641 
Denmark, 641 
diplomate, 723 
Empress, 642 
Eve's, 642 
fig, 642 

Florador and cocoanut, 680 
Florence, 647 
ginger, 643 
gingerbread, 642 
golden syrup, 643 
gooseberry, 695 
grated apple, 662 
groimd rice. 626, 678 
half-hour, 639 
Herodotus, 649 
Indian style, souflBe, 675 
jam sponge, 765 
lemon, 647, 648 
macaroni, 679 
Manchester, 645 
marmalade, 643 

and raisin, 646 
meringued, chocolate, 657 
mousseline, 675 
Normandy, 659 
orange, 665 

and ratafia, 666 
Osborne, 652 
paradise, 641 
peach, 668 
pearl-barely, 627 
peasant style, souffle, 676 
pie, Kentish, 654 
pineapple, 670 
potato, 655 

and apple, 656 
prune, 646 
Queen's, 641 
railway, 646 
raisin, roly-poly, 695 
rice, 626 

and fruit, 678 
roly-poly, 695 
Rothesa}', 645 
royal, 671 
Saxony, 657 
semolina, 679 
Snowdon, 644 
souffle, Queen's style, 676 
sponge, 651 
sultana, 643 
tapioca, 679 
treacle, 644, 645 
vermicelli, 679 
Victoria, 639 



Pudding, Vienna, 651 

West Riding. 639 

with apples, chplomatic, 730 

with fruit, batter, 653 

with meringue, rice, 677 
Puddings, Canary, 627 

castle, 657 

college, 647 

cup, 677 

little citron, 658 

Marie, 658 
Puits d'amour, 826 
Pullet with green sauce, 383 

with mushrooms, 382 
Punch a la Romaine, 782 

au lait, 782 

milk, 782 

Roman, 782 
Puree a la Bretonne, 77 

a la Frankfort, 71 

a la Parisienne, 75 

aux huitres, 91 

d'asperges, 69 

de betterave, 69 

de celeri, 70 

de choux de Bruxelles, 70 

de choux-fleurs, 69 

de concombres, 70 

d'epinards, 71 

de laitues, 71 

de lentilles, 87 

de legumes, 73 

de marrons a la Chantilly, 72 

de navets, 72 

a la creme, 460 

d'oiselle, 461 

de poireaux, 73 

aux croutons, 464 

de pois vert, 74 

de pommes de terre, 72 

de potirons, 73 

de tomates, 73 

de topinambours, 73 

de trufi'es, 489 
Pyramides de jambon, 47 

de langue de boeuf, 47 

de Parmesan, 864 
Pyramids, almond, 831 

coffee butter, 831 
Pyramids of cheese, 864 

Quails a I'Espagnole, 334 

a la Sylvia, cutlets of, 334 
Aurora style, chaudfroid of, 

368 
ballotines of, 336 
braised with celery sauce, 

333 
chaudfroid of. 370 
in aspic, border of, 368 
in cases, 369 
in pastrj', 335 
Lucullug style, 336 
of cooked chicken, 418 
of kidneys \vith potatoes, 516 
of whiting with ravigote 

sauc« 128 



Quails roasted, with grape sauce, 
333 
stuffed, 370 

chaudfroid of, 369 
surprise, 200 
to shape stuffed, 58 
Turk style, 337 
with cherries, 336 
with risotto, 334 
with vegetables, 337 
Quenelles de homard k la Car- 
■ dinal, 142 
dejambonauxpetitspo^^>.■J38 
de merlan a la ravigote, I "28 
de perdrix, 341 
de pommes de terre, 474 
de ptarmigan, 341 
de rognons au risotto, 190 
aux pommes de terr«, 
516 
de veau, 251 

a I'Indienne, 202 
k la Marengo, 202 
a la Villeroi, 202 
frits, 203 
en surprise, 200 
mock, 267 
Queue de boeuf frite, 534 

Rabbit a la Marengo, 264 

a la Provengale, 265 

boiled, 264 

cream, 265 

curried, 266 

financier style, grenadines ot 
315 

fricasse of, 263 

gibelotte of, 314 

Itahan style, 315 
Ratafia mould, 765 

pie, 263 

pulled, 263 

Queen style, darioles of, 315 

ragout of, 263 

roast and stuffed, 264 

sauted vaih tomatoes, 31* 

Venetian style, 313 

with sphagetti, 314 
Rable de Hevre a la creme, 392 

de lievre roti, 392 
Raie au beurre noir, 132 

sauce remoulade, 132 
Raisin crusts, 650 

pudding, baked, 650 

roly-poly pudding, 696 
Rarebit, American, 520 

Welsh, 526 
Raspberry acid drink, 911 

cream tart, 702 

syrup (1 and 2), 911 

tartlets, 700 
Ratafia basket, 725 
Rechauffe of salt cod, 153 
Red mullet in paper cases, ]'}.'» 

mullets, Chesterfield style, 
137 
with fine herbs, 136 



936 



INDEX 



Rhubarb pudding, cold, 763 
Eice and cheese au gratin, 531 

and fruit pudding, 678 

balls a ritalienne, 678 

bars, 678 

Belgian style, 505 

border with mushrooms, 503 

caramel, 717 

cheesecakes, 698 

Conde style, 677 

croquettes, 687 

curried, 50-1 

custard, 653 

cutlets, 398 

Empress style, 713 

financier style, crusts of, 241 

Florentine style, 532 

fritters, 683 

Maltese, 725 

Milanese style, 532 

mould, ground, 766 

Piedmontese style, 505 

Polish style, 532 

Princess style, 532 

pudding, 626 
baked, 678 
chocolate and, 680 
ground-, 678 
with meringue, 677 

shape, 763 

Spanish style, 533 

to boil, 274 

Turkish style, 504 

with apples, turban of, 729 

with tomato, 505 
Ris d'agneau aux fonds d'arti- 
chauts, 252 
aux petits pois, timbale 

de, 212 
bonnes bouches de, 246 
en caisses, 247 
rissoles de, 246 
rissolettes de, 251 
roulettes de, 245 
souvenirs de, 286 

de veau a la cevenole, 209 
a la chasseur, 208 
a la Demidoff, 208 
a la Du Barry, 209 
a la favorite, escalopes 

de, 205 
a la financiere, 204 
a la Geneve, 208 
a rindienne, escalopes 

de, 211 
a ritalienne, 210 
a la jardiniore, 209 
a la Justine, escalopes 

de, 211 
a la Marechale, escalopes 

de, 206 
k la Milanaise, 210 

vol-au-vent de, 214 
a la Momay, escalopes 

de, 211 
a la Napolitaine, timbale 
de, 214 



Ris de veau a la Nesselrode, 207 
a la regence, 207 
a la Reine, escalopes de, 

206 
a la St. Michel, 291 
a la San Remo, 292 
a la soubise, 207 
a la supreme, escalopes 

de, 212 
a la Toulouse, 204 
a la Villeroi, 206 
aux asperges, escalopes 

de, 214 
aux concombres, esca- 
lopes de, 212 
aux epinards, petites 

timbales de, 213 
aux huitres, 524 
beignets de, 247 
brochettes de, 244 
coquilles de, 243 
crepinettes de, 244 
dariolettes de, 525 
en caisses, chaudfroid 

de, 293 
frit, 211 

petites croustades de,244 
timbale de, 292 
Risotto, 111 

a ritalienne, 504 
aux ceufs, 547 
Rissoles, cherry, 686 
de cerises, 686 
de fromage, 867 
d'ceufs, 556 
d'oranges, 687 
de ris d'Agneau, 246 
of cold meat, 405 
of eggs, 556 
of oranges, 687 
Rissolettes de ris d'Agneau, 251 

fruits, 703 
Riz a la Beige, 505 
a la Conde, 677 
a I'EspagnoIe, 533 
a la financiere, croustades de, 

241 
a la Florentine, 532 
k I'impera trice, 713 
a rindienne, 504 
a la Maltaise, 725 
a la Milanaise, 532 
a la Piemontaise, 505 
a la Polonaise, 532 
a la Princesse, 532 
a la tomate, 505 
k la Turque, 504, 531 
aux champignons, bordure 

de, 503 
aux pommes, turban de, 729 
beignets au, 683 
croquettes de, 687 
meringue, pouding de, 677 
Rognons a la Connaught, 189 
a la diable, 518 
k la Fran^aise, 188 
k la maitre d'hotel, 518 



Rognons a la parmentier, petite* 
bouchees de, 242 
turban de, 191 
a la turbigo, 191 
a la Turque, 518 
a I'epicure, 190 
au risotto, quenelles de, 190 
aux pommes de terre, 519 
quenelles de, 516 
aux tomates, 519 

et riz, 519 
de mouton grilles, 191 
de veau en casserole, 282 
macaroni aux, 517 
sur croutes, 190 
sautes a la Carvalho, 191 
au Cliampagne, 189 
au Madere, 191 
Hongroise, 191 
Rolls, chestnut, 856 

chocolate, 856 ; 

coffee, 840 
Empress, 702 
milk, 788 
Roly-poly, baked jam, 695 
pudding, 695 
raisin, 695 
Roman pie, 527 
Rosettes a la Russe, 45 
Rouget aux fines herbes, 136 

en papillote, 135 
Rougets a la Chesterfield, 137 
a ritahenne, filets de, 136 
braises aux tomates, 136 
en filets a la Bordelaisc, 136 
Rough puff, 255 
Roulettes de ris d'Agneau, 246 
Rum sticks, 835 
Russian pie, 259 

Sago and fruit shape, 766 

Sage and onion stuffing, 34 

St. Pierre a la Genoise, filets dSi 

138 
Salad, American, 584 

apples and nut, 576 

artichoke and tomato, 680 

asparagus, 573 

beef, 587 

beetroot, 574 

carrot, 575 

cauhflower, 574 

celeriac, 580 

cherry, 595 

chestnut, 583 

chicken and ham, 587 

crab, 593 

cucumber, 574 

dressing, 25, 573 
boiled, 573 

duck, 590 

egg, 579 

and beetroot, 675 

endive, 575 

EngUsh, 578 

Flemish, 581 

French, 578 



INDEX 



937 



Salad, fruit, 751 
game, 587 
German, 585 
J gourmet style, 586 
grape, 596 
ham, 587 

himter's style, 589 
in aspic, chicken, 588 
Italian, 578 
Japanese, 584 
Jockey Club, 576 
leek, 585 
lentil, 583 
lettuce, 577 
lobster, 591 

and potato, 591 
lorette style, 576 
melon, 596 
Moscovite, 586 
of beef, with tomatoes, 588 
of celery and walnuts, 577 
of crab, 593 
of fillets of soles, 593 
of game and celery, 588 
of mixed vegetables, 579 
of new potatoes, 583 
of sardines, 593 
of tomatoes with cream, 582 
orange, 595 
oysters, 595 

Parisian style, potato, 577 
partridge, 590 
PoUsh, 581 
potato, 577 
pra\^Ti, 595 
rabbit, 589 
Rachel, 584 

radish and watercress, 583 
rice and shrimp, 594 
Russian, 582 
Bcallop, 594 
Bhrimp, 591 
Sicilian, 585 
Spanish, 581 
Swedish, 580 
tomato, 578 
tongue, 589 
trout, 592 
vegetable, 575 
watercress, 579 
winter, 584 

with aspic, lobster, 590 
Sftlade a I'Allemande, 585 
k I'Anglaise, 578 
a la Caroline, 594 
a la Crecy, 575 
k I'ecarlate, 589 
k la Flamande, 581 
k la Fran9aise, 578 
k la gourmet, 586 
k la Jardiniere, 579 
k la lorette, 576 
k la Moscovite, 586 
k la Polonaise, 581 
k la Rachel, 584 
k la Russe, 582 
Americaine, 584 



Salade aux huitrcs, 595 
aux ceufs, 579 
chasseur, 589 
cressonniere, 579 
d'artichauts et tomates, 580 
d'asperges, 573 
de betterave, 574 
de bceuf, 587 

a la tomate, 588 
de canard, 590 
de celeri et noix, 577 
de celeriac, 580 
de cerises, 595 
de chicoree, 575 
de chouxfleurs, 574 
de concombres, 574 
de crevettes, 591 
d'ecrevisses, 595 
d'Espagnole, 581 
de filets de soles, 593 
de fruits, 751 
de Gibier, 587 

et celeri, 588 
d'hiver, 584 
de homard, 591 

aux pommes de terre, 
591 

en aspic, 590 
de jambon, 587 
de laitue, 577 
de lapin, 589 
de legumes, 575 
de marrons, 583 
de melon, 596 
d' ceufs et betterave, 576 
d'orange, 595 
de petoncles, 594 
de perdreau, 590 
de poireaux, 585 
de pommes de terre, 577 

a la Parisienne, 577 
nouvelles, 583 

et noix, 576 
de raisins, 596 
de sardines, 593 
de saumon, 592 
de tomate a la creme, 582 
de tomates, 578 
de truite, 592 
de VolaiUe, 353, 586 

en aspic, 588 

et jambon, 587 
Italienne, 578 
Japonaise, 584 
Jockey Qub, 576 
Russe, 580 
SiciUenne, 585 
Suedoise, 580 
Salmi de canard sauvage, 338 
of duck, 308 

Montglas style, 309 
of wild duck, 338 
Salmis de sarcelles, 340 

of grouse with truffles, 333 
of teal, 340 
Salmon au gratin, 97 

boiled, oyster sauce. 94 



Salmon border with oysters, 98 
Chambord style, slice of, 96 
croquettes, 97 
cutlets, 153 

Coimtess style, 97 
English style, 96 
Pojarsky style, 97 
with cucumber, 100 
fillets, Indian style, 99 
Genoise sauce, 95 
grilled, Beamaise sauce, 95 
kedgeree, 29, 9S 
mayonnaise, 592 
Meuniere style, 96 
Richelieu style, slice of, 96 
rolled fillets of, 100 
souffle, 99 
Victoria style, moussehne ol, 

99 
with Aurora sauce, fillets of, 

95 
with Montpellier butter, slice 

of, 158 
with potatoes, fillets of, 148 
with ravigote sauce, fillets 
of, 97 
Salpicon, 32 
Salsifies, boiled, 481 
Salsifis a la poulet, 482 
a la veloute, 482 
au fromage, 482 
beignets de, 482 
bouillis, 481 
Salsify fritters, 482 
poulette style, 482 
with cheese, 482 
with velvet sauce, 482 
Salt beef au gratin, 408 
hash of, 408 
with bacon and tooiA- 

toes, 409 
Avith piquante sauce, 409 
Sandtorte, 810 
Sandwiches, American, 601 
anchovy, 605 

and cress, 606 
and oUve, 606 
bacon, 597 
beef, 597 
Cohibrook, 598 
caviare, 602 
cheese, 598 
chicken and ham, 598 

and nut, 602 
cod's roe, 606 
cucumber, 600 

and lettuce, 603 
and tongue, 603 
egg, 599 

and anchovy, 599 
fish, 604 
foie-gras, 598 
fruit, 607 
game, 604 

and celery, 600 
Gruyere, 603 
haddock, 605 



<)38 



INDEX 



fiandwiches, ham, 597 

Indian ham, 598 

jam, 607 

lettuce, 600 

lobster mayonnaise, 606 

mushroom, 599 

mustard and cress, 600 

oyster, 604 

partridges, 601 

potted meat, 598 

Princess, 601 

raw beef, 620 

salmon, 605 

sardine, 605 

and tomato, 601 

shrimp, 605 

SiciUan style, 602 

smoked salmon, 606 

Swiss, 603 

tomato, 599 

tongue, 597 

Turkish, 602 

walnut, 603 

and celery, 604 

watercress, 600 
Ssrcelles au vin blanc, 339 

roties, sauce orange, 339 

salmis de, 340 
Sardine canapes with remoulade 
sauce, 53 

toast, 877 
Sardines a 1' Alexandra, 44 

a la diable, 865 

a la Pietmontaise, 879 

a la remoulade, canapes de, 
53 

a la Tartare, 43 

Alexandra style, 44 

au jambon, 529 

au Parmesan, 877 

canapes aux, 874 

croutes de, 878 

curried, 529 

devilled, 865 

en fritot, 875 

en surprise, 529 

farcies aux crevettes, 44 

piquant, 529 

piquantes, 529 

stuffed with shrimps, 44 

with ham, 529 

with Parmesan, 877 
Bauce a I'epicure, 110 

k la Moelle, 8 

a rOseille, 10 

hk la Polonaise, 12 

a la Victoria, 21 

Admiral's, 1 

AUemande, 1 

almond, 26 

Americaine, 1 

Amiral, 1 

anchois, 15 

apple, 272 

apricot, 26 

au beurrc noir, 3 

an celeri, 5 



Sauce au chocolat, 26 
au rhum, 29 
au vin blanc, 21 
Aurora, 16 
aux abricots, 26 
aux amandes, 26 
aux ecevisses, 17 
aux fines herbes, 17 
aux huitres, 18 
aux ceufs durs, 20 
aux oignons, 10 

brune, 11 
aux olives, 10 
banquiere, 2 
Beamaise, 2 

au raifort, 3 

rouge, 3 

verte, 2 

Tvith horseradish, 3 
Bechamel, 2 
Bercy, 113 
black butter, 3 
blanc, 16 
blanchet, 16 
Bordelaise, 3 
Bordeaux, 3 
brain, 6 
brandy, 26 
bread, 3 
Bretonne, 3 
brown, 2 

caper, 4 

chaudfroid, 22 

fish, 16 

mushroom, 6 

onion, 11 
Cambridge, 22 
caramel, 26 
Cardinal, 16 
Cazanova, 22 
celery, 5 
cervelles, 6 
champignons blanche, 5 

brune, 5 
Qiantilly, 23 
chasseur, 4 
Chateaubriand, 5 
chaudeau, 27 
chaudfroid blanche, 22 

blonde, 22 

brune, 22 

green, 23 

pink, 23 
cherry, 27 
chestnut, brown, 4 

white, 4 
chocolate, 26 
claret, 27 
clear tarragon, 16 
coffee, 27 
Colbert, 4 
cold cucumber, 23 

horseradish, 24 
concombres, 5 
cornflour, 26 
ci«o>, 6 
cucumber* 5 



Sauce, Cumberland, 23 
curry, 5 
custard, 27 
Danoise, 17 
demi -glace, 6 
devilled, 6 
diable, 6 
diplomate, 17 

sweet, 27 
Duchesse, 6 
Dutch, 16 
Duxelle, 6 
egg, 20 

epicurienne, 23 
Espagnole, 7 
fa^vn chaudfroid, 22 
fermiere, 7 
financiere, 7 
fish gratin, 17 
fruit, 28 
game, 7 
Gene vols, 18 
Genoise, 18 
German, 1, 28 
gibier, 7 
Gloucester, 24 
gooseberry, 17 
gouffe, 18 
grandveneur, 7 
green, 15 

Bearnaise, 2 

chaudfroid, 23 
hachis, 8 
ham, 8 
hard, 28 
HoUandaise, 18 
homard, 18 
Hongroise, 7 
hot horseradish, 13 
Hungarian, 7 
Indienne, 19 
Italienne, 8 
jam, 28 
jambon, 8 
jardiniere, 8 
Joinville, 19 
lemon, 28 
lobster, 18 
Lyonnaise, 19 
Madere, 9 
Madras, 9 
Maintenon, D 
maitre d'hotel, 20 
Marechale, 9 
maraschino, 29 
marmalade, 28 
marrow, 8 
Marseillaise, 9 
Marshal, 9 
matelote, 19 

blanche, 19 
mayonnaise, 24 

de tomates, 24 
melted butter, 8 
mint, 9 
Mornay, 20 
mousseline, 24 



INDEX 



939 



Sauce, mousseline. sweet, 29 
moutarde, 20 
mustard, 20 
Noapolitaine, 10 
nonpareille, 20 
Normande, 20 
olive, 10 
onion, 10, l4 
Oporto, 10 
orange, 10 
oyster, 18 
Poloise, 12 
parsley, 11 
pauvre liomme, 21 
pepper, 11 
perigueur, 11 
Perigord, 11 
pineapple, 29 
pink chaudfroid, 23 
piquante, 11 
poivrade, 11 
Polonaise, 12 
Pompadour, 12 
poor man's, 21 
port-wine, 10 
Portugaise, 21 
poulette, 12 
prawTi, 17 

Prince de Galles, 24 
Proven^ale, 11 
punch, 29 
raifort chaude, 13 

froide, 24 
raspberry, 29 
ravigote, 13 

cold, 25 

froide, 25 
red Beamaise, 3 
reforme, 12 
Regence, 13 
remoulade, 25 
Richelieu, 13 
Robert, 12 
Ruisseau, 13 
rum, 29 
Russe, 21 
Sabayon, 29 
salmi, 14 
sharp, 11 
sorrel, 10 
Soubise, 14 
souffe, 18 
Spanish, 18 
Suedoise, 25 
supreme, 13 
Swedish, 25 
sweet, chaudfroid, 27 

melted butter, 28 
tangerine, 14 
tartare, 25 
tomates, 14 
Toulouse, 14 
Tyrohenne, 25 
Valentine, 25 
Valois, 15 
veloute, 15 
velvet, 15 



Sauce, Venitienne, 21 
vert -pre, 15 
Victoria, 21 
Villeroy, 15 
vinaigrette, 26 
watercress, 13 
white, IG 
caper, 3 
chaudfroid, 22 
matelote, 19 
mushroom, 5 
wine, 21 
with herbs, 17 
Xavier, 22 
Saucisses a la diable, 522 
Saumon a I'Anglaise, cotelettes 
de, 95 
a I'aurore, filets de, 95 
a la Cliambord, dame de, 96 
a la Comtesse, cotelettes de, 

97 
a la Genoise, 95 
a rindienne, filets de, 99 

mousse de, 171 
a la meuniere, 98 
a la Montpellier, dame de,158 

medaillons de, 159 
a la Moscovite, timbale de, 

161 
a la Pojarsky, cotelettes de, 

97 
a la ravigote, filets de, 97 
a la Richelieu, darne de, 96 
a la Victoria, mousseline de, 

99 
au gratin, 97 
aux concombres, cotelettes 

de, 100 
aux huitres, bordure de, 98 
bouiUi, sauce aux huitres, 94 
croquettes de, 97 
de mayonnaise, 162 
grille au Beamaise, 95 
kedgeree de, 98, 99 
paupiettes de filets de, 100 
petites barquettes de, 164 

timbales de, 94 
souffle de, 99 
Sausage and bacon, fried, 522 
farce for turkeys, etc., 35 
Sausage-rolls, 268 
Sausages, devilled, 522 
fried, 269 
in butter, 522 
aux fruits, 753 
Savarin aux fruits, 753 
bordure, 692 
border with fruits, 692 
with fruits, 753 
Savoury hash, 396 

stew, \\ath suet dumplings, 
262 
Scallops, fried, 144 
Indian style, 143 
of calf's brains, 530 
of turbot, 154 
scalloped, 144 



Scallops of chicken, Jeanettc style^ 
302 

of hare a la Fran^aise, 344 

of pheasant in cases, 328 
Scones, 788 

cream, 787 
Donside, 787 

soda, 786 

wholemeal, 787 
Scotch collops, 259 
Sea pie, 258 
Seakale with cream sauce, 450 

with Espagnole sauce, 450 

with Hollandaise sauce, 450^ 

with mayonnaise, cold, 493 
Selle de venaison aux tomatcSr 
393 
rotie a la Cumberland, 

383 
rotie, sauce grand- 
veneur, 392 
Shape of partridges with oniona.- 

323 
Shells of foie-gras, 318 

of sweetbread, 243 
Shepherd's pie, 402 
Sherry cobbler, 909 
Shortbread, Scotch, 844 
Short-cake, lemon, 846 

peach, 840 
Short-cakes, pineapple, 846 
Shrimp toasts, 48 
Shrimps, Duchess style, 54 

in boat shapes, 50 

in cases, curried, 150 
Skate with black butter, 132 

with remoulade sauce, 132 
Smelts au gratin, 133 

Duchess st vie, 133 

fried, 132 ' 

grilled, 133 

on skewers, 133 

souffle of, 133 
Snacks, 404 
Snipes, ballotines of, 371 

fried, 342 

roasted, 342 
Sole a I'aurore, 112 

a la Bohemienne, 117 

a la Florentine, 113 

a la L^^onnaise, 108 

^ la maitre d'hotel, 116 

a la Moscovite, 115 

hi la Normande, 109 

as whitebait, fillets of, 10& 

au gratin, 110 

au Parmesan, 108 

aurora style, 112 

Bercy style, fillets of, 120 

Bohemian style, 117 

bonne femme, 121 

Colbert style, fillets of, 116 

Florentine style, 113 

fried, 613 

good-^nfe style, 121 

mariniere, 123 

meuniere k I'orange, 113 



940 



INDEX 



Bole, modem style, little timbales 

of, 120 
Moscovite style, 115 
with devilled sauce, fillets of, 

123 
with Lyonnaise sauc«, 108 
with maitre d'hotel sauce, 
116 
fillets of, 613 
with Normande sauce, 109 
with Parmesan cheese, 108 
Soles a la Bearnaise, filets de, 119 
a la Bechamel, timbale de 

filets de, 110 
k la Bercy, filets de, 120 
a la Berlmoise, filets de, 122 
k la blanchaille, filets de, 109 
a la Cardinal, timbale de 

filets de, 120 
a la Colbert, filets de, 115 
a la Conde, paupiettes de, 117 
a la diable, filets de, 123 
a r epicure, filets de, 110 
a la Grand-Due, filets de, 112 
a la Jeannette, filets de, 119 
a la Joinville, filets de, 112 
a la Main tenon, filets de, 114 
a la Marigny, filets de, 108 
a la mayonnaise, filets de, 167 
a la modeme, petites tim- 
bales de, 120 
k la montgolfier, 122 
k la Montpelier, turban de 

filets de, 165 
a la Montpensier, filets de, 1 1 9 
a la Momay, paupiettes de, 

118 
k la mousse de tomates, filets 

de, 168 
k la Parisienne, filets de, 115 
k la Parmentie-r, filets de, 121 
k la Piemontaise, filets de,124 
a la Portugaise, 112 
k la Princesse, filets de, 110 
k la regence, paupiettes de, 

166 
k la Riche, filets de, 115 
k la Rouen, filets de, 122 
a la Rouennaise, filets de, 117 
k la royale, filets de, 166 
a la Russe, filets de, 167 
i !a St. Miohel, paupiettes de, 

12-3 
a la Turemie, filets de, 114 
a la Vernon, filets de, 114 
a la Victor, filets de, 123 
a la voisin, filets de, 1 14 
and prawns, little boat shapes 

with, 113 
and salmon with Cardinal 

sauce, crown of. 111 
au risotto, turban de filets de, 

111 
au vin blanc. 111 
aux champignons, filets de, 
121 
turban de filets de, 125 



Soles auxecrivisses,petits bateaux 

de, 113 
aux tomates, paupiettes de 

filets de, 118 
Berlin style, filets of, 122 
Conde style, rolls of, 117 
Danoise, filets de, 124 
dominos de filets de, 168 
en aspic a la Trianon, filets de, 
165 
bordure de filets de, 169 
en belle -vue, filets de, 161 
en rame quins, paupiettes de, 

111 
et saumon a la Cardinal, 

turban de, 111 
farcis aux crevettes, filets de, 
109 
en aspic, 162 
en fers a cheval, filets de, 
ICO 
Grand-Due style, fillets of, 

112 
Jeannette style, fillets of, 119 
Joinville style, fillets of, 112 
Main tenon style, fillets of, 114 
Marigny style, fillets of, 108 
mayonnaise de filets de, 165 
Montgolfier style, 122 
Montpensier style, fillets of, 

119 
Parisieime style, fillets of, 1 15 
petites timbales de filets de, 

168 
Piedmontese style, fiUets of, 

124 
Portuguese style, 112 
Princess style, fillets of, 110 
rolled, in cases, IM 
Rouen style, fillets of, 122 
Rouennaise style, fillets of, 

117 
St. Michel style, rolled fillets 

of, 123 
BOufHe's, filets de, 119 
stuffed with shrimps, fillets 

of, 109 
Turenne style, fillets of, 114 
Verdi, filets de, 124 
Vernon style, fillets of, 114 
Victor style, fillets of, 123 
with Bearnaise sauce, fillets 

of, 119 
with Bechamel sauce, tim- 
bale of fillets of, 110 
with epicurean sauce, fillets 

of, 110 
with lobster, timbale of 

fillets of, 120 
with Momay sauce, rolls of, 

118 
with mushrooms, fillets of, 
121 
turban of fillets of, 125 
with potato, fillets of, 121 
with risotto, turban of fillets 
of. 111 



Soles with tomatoes, rolls of filleta 
of, 118 

with white wine, 111 
Sorbet a la creme, 781 

aux fraises, 781 

cream, 781 

de citron, 781 

d'orange, 781 

of lemon, 781 

of oranges, 781 

of strawberries, 781 
Sorrel, puree of, 461 
Souffle a I'ananas, 675 

a rindienne, pouding, 675 

a la Lucullus, 672 

a la Milanaise, 759 

a la Parme, 760 

a la paysanne, pouding, 676 

a la Princesse, 761 

k la Reine, pouding, 676 

a la royale, pouding, 671 

a la vanille, 670 

apple, 676 

apricot, 676 

au cafe au lait, 672 

au chocolat, 762 

au citron, 672 

au jambon, 238 

au the, 674 

aux amandes, 673 

aux huitres, 144 

aux marrons, 673 

aux prunes, 674 

chestnut, 673 

chocolate, 762 

coffee, 672 

d'abricots, 676, 760 

d'eperlans, 133 

de fromage, 889 

de groseilles vertes, 761 

de homard, 140 

de merlan, 128 

d'oranges, 673, 759 

de peches, 776 

de perdreaux, 320 

de pommes, 676 

de pommes de terre, 476 

de saumon, 99 

de tomates a I'ltalienne, 485 

de veau, 198 

Florador, 673 

frappe aux framboises, 775 

fritters, 684 

gooseberry, 761 

Indian style, pudding, 675 

lemon, 672 

Lucullus style, 672 

Milan style, 759 
of almonds, 673 
of apricots, 760 
of cheese, 889 
of ham, 238 
of orange, 673 
of partridges, 320 
of potatoes, 475 
of veal, 198 
-^f whiting, 612 



INDEX 



941 



8ouffl6, omelet, 623 

orange, 759 

peasant style, 676 

pineapple, 675 

potato, 674 

pouding a la Parmentier, 674 

poularde, 301 

Princess, 761 

prune, 674 

Queen's style, pudding, 676 

sweet, 626 

tea, 674 

vaniUa, 670 

with violets, 760 
Soufflee a la confiture, omelette, 
689 

k la Stephanie, omelette, 689 

omelet, 689 

with jam, 689 

omelette, 689 

Stephanie style, omelet, 689 
Bouffl^s a I'ecarlate, petits, 294 

a la tomate, petits, 483 

au jambon, petits, 295 

aux carottes, 439 

aux epinards, petits, 455 

beignets, 684 

de celeri, 443 

de foie de volaiile, petits, 251 

de merluche fume, petits, 862 

de Moka, petits, 775 

de petits pois, petits, 465 

de volaiile a la financiere, 
petits, 242 
en caisses, petits, 251 

en surprise, beignets, 685 

filets de soles, 119 

little tomato, 483 

of carrot, 439 

of celery, 443 

of chicken, financier style, 
little, 242 

of chickens' livers, little, 251 

of dried haddock, little, 862 

of green peas, little, 465 

of haddock, cold, 862 

of ham, little, 295 

of spinach, 455 

of tongue, little, 294 

small game, 419 
Soup a la mer, 93 

a strengthening, 611 

ambassador's, 75 

Andalousian, 76, "^S 

asparagus, 69 

aurora, 75 

Bagration, 93 

barley, 89 

beetroot, 69 

bone, 87 

bonne femmc, 77 

brown, 90 

rabbit, 84 

Brussels sprouts, 70 

cabbage, 88 

calf's feet, 78 

camelia, 76 



Soup, carrot, 69 
cauliflower, 69 
celery, 70 

chestnut a la Chantilly, 72 
chicken, 81 

mulligataAvny, 86 
Chinese, 92 
clear turtle, 68 
cock-a-leekie, 88 
crayfish, 90 
Criterion, 76 
croute-au-pot, 59 
cucumber, 70 
d' Artois, 75 
Duchess style, 85, 92 
economical green-pea, 89 
Faubonne, 77 
Florador, 88 
fontange, 76 
Frankfort, 71 
giblet, 81 
green pea, 74 
ham, 80 
hare, 81 

haricot bean, 77, 89 
health, 79 
Hollandaise, 77 
hotch-potch, 88 
Indian style, lobster, 91 
Italian, 85 

green -pea, 72 
Jerusalem artichoke, 73 
kidney, 82 
leek, 73 
lentil, 87 
Leopold, 76 
lettuce, 71 
lobster, 90 
macaroni, 88 

;Mary Stuart style, chicken, 86 
Mercedes, 74 
milk, 87 
mock turtle, 82 
muUigataAATiy, 82 
mushroom, 70 

of soles, meridionale style, 91 
Orleans, 86 
ox-tail, 82 
oyster, 91 
Parisian, 75 
parsnip, 89 
partridge, 83 
pea, 87 
pheasant, 85 
pluche, 78 
pot-au-feu, 57 
potato, 72 
Proven^ale, 92 
Queen style, rabbit, 83 
Regence, 78 
rice, 80, 89 
royal, 81 
St. Germain, 78 
Scotch broth, 87 
semolina, 89 
shrimp, 91 
Solferino, 79 



Soup, sorrel, 72 

spinach, 71 

Sultan style, chicken, 84 

Swedish, 79 

Swiss, 79 

tapioca, 80 

tomato, 73 

turnip, 72 

vegetable, 71, 73, 74 
marrow, 73 

velvet, 80 

Venetian cream, 74 
- styie, 84 

vermicelli, 88 

Viennese style, barley, 85 

watercress, 70 

white, 90 

Windsor, 80 

with chestnuts, partridge, 85 

with curry, rabbit, 84 
Soupirs, 837 
Spaghetti k la Dieudonn6, 514 

a la royale, 514 

a la tomate, 509 

au gratin, 508 

beignets de, 509 

Dieudonne style, 514 

fritters, 509 

royal style, 514 

timbale de, 515 

with tomato, 509 
Spanish onions, boiled, 462 
Spice nuts, 837 
Spinach, croquettes of, 453 

croustades, 457 

friandines, 456 

German style, 457 

Indian style, 456 

Little timbales of, 4^5 

on croutes, 455 

souffles, 455 

stuffed, 454 

vrith cream, 454 

with eggs, 528 

with sardines, 528 
Sprats, fried, 135 
Steak and kidnej' pie, 254 
pudding, 255 

and onions, fried, 266 

fricassed, 255 

Porterhouse, 271 

stewed, 266 
Stock, broAvn, 56 

fish, 57 

game, 57 

second, 57 

white, 56 
Strawberries, Creole style, 745 

Melba, 780 

mould of, 746 

with cream, flavour of, 744 
Strawberry cream, 746 

short-cake, 703 

syrup, 912 

tart with meringue, 704 

tartlets, 700 

trifle, 745 



942 



INDEX 



Sucking pig, 272 
Su6doise de fruits, 751 
Sultana pudding, 643 
Sultanas, to clean, 633 
Supreme de volaille a la Reine, 

359 
Supremes de volaille a la 

Duchesse, 301 
Surprise apples, 838 

omelet, 779 
Sweetbread, Cevenole style, 209 
chasseur style, 208 
crepinettes of, 244 
cutlets, favourite style, 205 
Indian style, 211 
Justine style, 211 
Marshal style, 206 
Momay sauce, 211 
Queen style, 206 
supreme sauce, 212 
with asparagus, 214 
with cucumbers, 212 
dariolettes of, 525 
Demidoff style, 205 
fijianciere style, 204 
fried, 211, 617 

Villeroi style, 206 
fritters, 247 
Geneva style, 208 
in cases, 247 
in little crusts, 244 
in shells, 243 
Milanese style, 210 
on skewers, 244 
Regence style, 207 
rolls, 245 

St. Michel style, 291 
San Remo style, 292 
timbale, Naples style, 214 
timbale of, 292 
Toulouse style, 204 
vol-au-vent, Milanaise style, 

214 
with cauUflower, 209 
with chestnut puree, 207 
with Itahan sauce, 210 
with mixed vegetables, 209 
with oysters, 525 
with Soubise sauce, 207 
with spinach, little moulds of, 
213 
Sweetbreads in cases, cold, 293 
lamb's, 617 
mock, 218 
Swiss gimblets, 835 
pastry, 843 
roU, 817 

chocolate, 819 
lemon, 818 
rolls, smaU, 819 
Syllabubs, 722 

Talmouses de fromage, 873 
de merluche fume, 878 

Tapioca blanc -mange, 763 
cream, 627 
pudding. 624 



Tart, a tender, 855 

almond, 853 

apple, 694 

apricot, 705 

brown-bread, 854 

chestnut, 857 

cream, 855 

curd, 853 

date, 853 

froth, 854 

fruit, 855 

German apple, 696 

Gisela, 854 

Humboldt, 858 

invaUd fruit, 628 

Japanese, 697 

macaroon, 854 

Napoleon, 853 

nut, 854 

open jam, 696 

orange, 696, 857 

raspberry cream, 702 

Sappho, 855 

semolina, 857 

treacle, 696 

with meringue, strawberry, 
704 
Tartelettes au chocolat, 701 

au rhum, 826 

de fromage, 889 
Tartines a la Lucullus, 886 

d'ecrevisses a la St. Pierre, 
879 

de Marguerite, 875 
Tartlets, Balmoral, 699 

childern, 826 

chocolate, 701 

currant, 825 

macaroon, 826 

Parisian, 702 

raspberry, 700 

strawberry, 700 
Tarts, apple custard, 704 

gooseberry custard, 704 

orange custard, 704 

PoUsh, 705 
Tea, black currant, 630 

Iceland-moss, 630 

Irish -moss, 630 

Linseed, 630 

milk, 630 

oatmeal, 632 

souffle, 674 

to make, 912 
Teal roasted, with orange sauce, 
339 

salmis of, 340 

with white wine, 339 
Tete de veau a 1' Anglais, 395 
a ritaUenne, 216 
a la poulette, 217 
a la vinaigrette, 217 
ne tortue, 218 
petites bouchees de, 217 
The, souffle au, 674 
Timbale a la supreme, 744 

5ux finiits a la nationale, 690 



Timbale aux huitres a la Par- 

mentier, 145 
d'asperges a la vert-pre, 491 
de boeuf a la Madere, 241 
de caneton chaudfroid, 363 
de figues a la creme, 746 
de filets de soles a la Becha- 
mel, 110 
a la Cardinal, 120 
de Florador a la tomate, 506 
de Gnocchi, 199 
de homard a la reine, 141 
de lard aux rognons, 533 
de legumes a la Normande, 

499 
de poires, 691 
de pommes a la reine, 731 
de terre, 481 

a la mode me, 471 
sautes, 469 
de ris d'agneau aux petitt 

pois, 212 
de ris de veau, 292 

a la Napohtaine, 214 
de saumon a la Moscovite, 

161 
de volaille aux asperges, 358 
froid a la Toulouse, 353 
of bacon with kidneys, 533 
of beef with Madeira, 241 
of cold asparagus, 491 
of figs vnth cream, 746 
of fruits, national style, 690 
of pears, 691 
of sweetbread, 292 
of vegetables, Norman style, 

499 
Timbales a la Napolitaine, 524 
d'abricots, Marie Louise, 691 
de boeuf a la betterave, 

petites, 294 
de carottes, petites, 440 
de choux-fleurs, petites, 447 
d'ecrivisses a la reforme, 

petites, 171 
d'epinards, petites, 455 
de filets de soles, petites, 168 
de Florador aux abricots, 650 
de foies de volaille, petites, 

252 
de Genoise en gelee, petites, 

720 
de homard a la Russe, petites, 

164 
de mauviettes a la supreme, 

petites, 344 
de pigeon a la supreme, 

23etites, 313 
de ris de veau aux epinards, 

petites, 213 
de saumon, petites, 94 
de soles a la modeme, petites, 

120 
de veau a la Richelieu, 

petites, 250 
de volaille a la Chartreuse, 

petites, 354 



INDEX 



943 



Tirabales de volaille k la Hollan- 
daise, petites, 359 
petites, 242 
of apricots, Marie Louise 

style, 691 
of cauliflower, little, 447 
of chicken. Chartreuse style, 
httle, 354 
Hollandaise style, little, 

359 
Uttle, 242 
of chickens' livers, little, 252 
of fish and potatoes, 155 
of game and potato, small, 

420 
of Genoese in jelh% little, 720 
of larks, supreme style, little, 

344 
of pigeon, supreme style, 

little, 313 
of scrambled eggs, 540 
of veal, Richelieu style, little, 
250 
Toad -in -the -hole, 256 
Toast, devilled, 521 
epicure, 860 
lobster, 869 
sardine, 877 
savoury, 521 
Toasts, egg and ham, 868 
gherkin, 866 
haddock, 869 
marrow, 868 
of dried haddock, 889 
Tomate, petits souffles a la, 483 
Tomates a I'Americaine, 567 
a I'Andalouse, 487 
a la Bock, 485 
a la Caroline, 487 
a la Creole, 499 
a la Dubarry, 496 
a ritalienne, souffle de, 485 
a la jardiniere, 497 
a la Lucullus, 495 
a la Madrid, 884 
a la Marseillaise, 486 
a la Neva, 499 
k la ravigote, 498 
au gratin, 485 

k rindienne, 483 
au mousse de choufleur, 498 
aux Cervelles, 530 
aux champignons, 486 
aux macaroni, 488 
boignets de, 485 
croutes de, 48^ 
en mayonnaise, 499 
en surprise, 357, 497 
farcies a I'aspic, 500 

a la Portugaise, 488 
a la Pro^en9ale, 483 
au grating 486 
aux celeri, 501 
aux champignons, 484 
petites bombes de, 501 
eautees, 484 

a la Proven9ale, 484 

FT. XII. 



Tomato and cheese pudding, 489 

and onion pie, 528 

canapes, 48 

fritters, 485 

sauce, 904 

souffle, Itahan style, 485 

souffles, httle, 483 

toast, 484 
Tomatoes a la Fran^aise, 498 

Andalusian style, 487 

au gratin, 485 

baked, stuflFed, 486 

Caroline style, 487 

Creole style, 499 

Dubarry style, 496 

French style, 498 

Indian style, baked, 483 

Uttle bombs of, 501 

Lucullus style, 495 

Marseillaise style, 486 

Neva style, 499 

Portuguese style, stuffed, 488 

Provengale style, sauted, 484 
stuffed, 483 

sauted, 484 

stuffed with aspic, 500 
with celery, 501 
with mayonnaise, 499 
with mushrooms, 484 

surprise, 497 

with brains, 530 

with cauliflower mousse, 498 

with macaroni, 488 

with mushrooms, 486 

with ravigote sauce, 498 

with spring vegetables, 497 
Tongue pyramids, 47 

souffles, little, 294 
Tongues, Duxelle style, lamb's, 
181 

Spanish style, httle, 296 
Topinambours a I'Espagnole, 431 

a ritaUenne, 430 

au gratin , 432 

au risotto, 431 

beignets de, 432 

bouiliis, 430 

farcis, 432 

frit, 430 
Tortue claire, 68 
Toumedos a la Beamaise, 227 

a la Boroplaise, 226 

a la Castillane, 226 

a la Choron, 227 

a la Drexel, 228 

k la Duchesse, 231 

a I'Empereur, 229 

a la Florentine, 230 

a la forestiere, 234 

a la Mikado, 232 

a la Mireille, 230 

k la Momay, 229 

a la Nesselrode, 233 

a la Ni9oise, 231 

k la Parmentier, 233 

a la Raphael, 234 

a la Sarde, 232 



Tournedos a la Strasbourgeoise, 
231 
Cendrillon, 228 
de boeuf a la Gabrielle, 228 

aux prunes, 232 
Marie Louise, 230 
Villeneuve, 233 
Tranches a la niege, 827 
au citron, 825 
d'orange, 825 
Treacle pudding, 644 

tart, 696 
Trifle, 727 
Trifles, 881 
Tripe and onions, 260 
curried, 259 
fried, 260 
stewed, 259 
stewed, brown, 260 
with white sauce, 614 
Trout, baked, 100 

Cambaceres style, 101 

fillets, fried, 102 

grilled, with maitre d'hotel 

butter, 101 
with epicurean sauce, 101 
with ilirabeau sauce, fillets 

of, 101 
with Mornav sauce, fillets of, 
102 
Truffes a la creme, 489 
puree de, 489 
sous la cendre, 489 
Truffles a la serviette, 489 
in cream, 489 
puree of, 489 
under the ashes, 489 
Truite a la Cambaceres, 101 
a I'epicurienne, 101 
a la Mirabeau, filets de, 101 
a la mousse de homard, file la 

de, 169 
grillees a la maitre d'hotel, 

101 
a la Momay, filets de, 102 
frits, filets de, 102 
Turban de filets de soles a la 
Montpelier, 165 
au risotto. 111 
aux champignons, 

125 
et saumon a la 
cfiKhnal, 111 
de homard, 174 
Turbot a la Castelaine,bordure de, 
104 
a la Florentine, filets de, 103 
k la Hollandaise, 103 
k ritalienne, bordure de, 170 
a la maitre d'hotel, filets de, 

103 
a la Normande, 102 
k la Parisienne, 102 
k la Proven^ale, 104 
Amiral style, chicken, 103 
au vin blanc, paupiettes de, 
104 

60 



944 



INDEX 



Turbot, Castelaine style, border 
of, 104 

b'lorentine style, fillets of, 103 

grille, 105 

Parisienne style, 102 

Proven9ale style, 104 

scallops of, 154 

with Hollandaise sauce, 103 

with maitre d'hotel sauce, 
fillets of, 103 

with Norman sauce, 102 

with white wine, rolled fillets 
of, 104 
Turbotin a ramiral, 103 

a la ravigote, 161 
Turkey, Chipolata style, 316 

cold, stuffed, 384 

fricandeau of, 316 

Hungarian style, cutlets of, 
317 

stuffed with chestnuts, roast, 
383 

with Beamaise, cutlets of,316 

with celery sauce, boiled, 384 

with risotto, rolls of, 317 
Turnips au gratin, 460 

poulette style, 461 

stuffed, 461 

with cream, puree of, 460 

VaniUa cream, 710 

with chestnuts, 716 

souffle, 670 

sugar, 633 
Vanille, souffle a la, 670 
Veal and ham pie, 255 

and macaroni au gratin, 415 

and poached eggs, minced, 
415 

and potato rissoles, 413 

balls, 402 

Belle -vue style, fillet of, 289 

blanquette of, 198 

braised loin of, 378 

broth, 610 

cake, 290 

cream, financiere style, 198 

croustade of, 412 

cutlets, 193 

gipsy style, 194 
Itahan style, 194 
Lyonnaise style, 194 
Milanaise style, 196 
Neapohtan style, 195 
Pojarski style, 195 
PoUsh style, 195 
with bacon, 270 

fillets, Colbert style, 193 
cold, 290 
Dreux style, 193 
Madeleine style, 193 
Madras style, 289 
Maintenon style, 192 
, stuffed and rolled, 198 
Talleyrand style, 193 

fricadelles of, 201 

Gullasch, 204 



Veal in jelly, minced, 416 
minced, 413 
mousse, 291 
Navarin, 269 
olives, 197 

Palestine style, kernel of, 379 
quenelles, 201 
fried, 203 
Indian style, 202 
Marengo style, 202 
Villeroi style, 202 
Richeheu style, boudins of, 
249 
httle timbales of, 250 
rolls, 270 

with tomatoes, 199 
sauted, chasseur style, 196 

Marengo style, 197 
souffle, 198 
stewed breast of, 268 
stuffed, fillet of, 378 
turnover, 414 

with cucumber, stewed, 413 
with ham, stewed, 412 
with maraconi, minced, 414 
with peas, grenadines of, 196 
with risotto, 416 
with spinach, braised cushion 
of, 378 
minced, 414 
Veau a la chasseur, saute de, 196 
a la Colbert, filets de, 193 
a la Dreux, filets de, 193 
a I'Espagnole, foie de, 215 
a la financiere, creme de, 198 
a rindienne, quenelles de, 202 
k ritalienne, cotelettes de, 

194 
a la jardiniere, paupiettes de, 

198 
a la Lucullus, boudins de,247 
a la Lyonnaise, cotelettes de, 

194 
k la macedoine, tendrons de, 
200 
filets de, 193 
a la Madras, filets de, 289 
a la Maintenon, filets de, 192 
a la Marengo, quenelles de, 

202 
a la Milanaise, escalopes de, 

196 
a la Napolitaine, cotelettes 

de, 195 
a rOrly, pieds de, 216 
a la Palestine, noix de, 379 
a la Pojarski, cotelettes de, 

195 
a la Polonaise, cotelettes de, 

195 
a la Richelieu, boudins de,249 
petites timbales de, 250 
a la Talleyrand, filets de, 192 
k la Villeroi, quenelles de, 202 
a la Zingara, filets de, 194 
aux epinards, fricandeau de, 
378 



Veau aux petits pois, grenadins 
de, 196 
aux tomates, paupiettes de, 

199 
blanquette de, 198 
braise, foie de, 215 
longe de, 378 
en Belle-vue, filet de, 289 
en fricassee, pieds de, 216 
farci, filet de, 378 
filets de, 193 
fricadelles de, 201 
frits, pieds de, 215 

quenelles de, 203 
froides, filets de, 290 
gateau de, 290 
Gullasch de, 204 
mousse de, 291 
olives de, 197 
quenelles de, 201 
saute a la Marengo, 197 
souffle de, 198 
Vegetable marrow a I'Espagnole, 
436 
a la Lyonnaise, 636 
au gratin, 435 
stewed, 435 
stuffed, 406, 435 
pie, 512 
Venaison rotie a la Cumberland, 
selle de, 383 
hanche de, 382 
a la Parisienne, jugged, 348 
aux tomates, selle de, 393 
Venison, Cumberland style, roast 
saddle of, 383 
cutlets, braised, 349 
grilled, 347 
with a chestnut puree, 

348 
with tongue, 348 
fillet, St. Hubert style, 349 
roast haunch of, 382 
with cucumber, noisettes of, 

349 
with grandveneur sauce, 

roast saddle of, 392 
with tomatoes, saddle of, 393 
Vinegar, chilli, 903 
raspberry, 910 
Tarragon, 903 
Vol-au-vent de fruits, 703 

de ris de veau a la Milanaise, 
214 
Volaille a la Chartreuse, oetites 
timbales, 354 
a la diable, foie de, 536 
a la duchesse, supremes de, 

301 
a la ecarlate cremes de, 350 
a la financiere, petits souffles 

de, 242 
k la Hollandaise, petitea 

timbales de, 359 
k ritalienne, aspic de, 362 
a la Jeannette, escallopes de, 
362 



INDEX 



945 



Volaille k la Juliette, petites 

cremes, 355 
k la princesse, chaudfroid de, 
353 
cotelettes de, 35G 
mayonnaise de, S'^Q 
k la reine, supreme de, 359 
a la royale, mousse de, 356 
k la Victoria, petites bombes, 

;J58 
andouillettes de, 239 
aux asperges, timbale de, 358 
aux epinards, cuisses de, 302 
aux t ruffes, vol-au-vent de, 

307 
bordure de filets de, 304 
chaudfroid de, 353 
cotelettes de, 304 
dominos de, 358 
dormes de, 249 
en aspic, darioles de, 361 
en Belle-vue, chaudfroid de, 

352 
en caisses, petits souffles de, 

251 
et rognons a la diable foies de, 

517 
froide, mousse de, 360 



Volaille, galantine de, 354 
mayonnaise of, 360 
petites cremes de, 359 
jietites timbales de, 242 
salade de, 353 
turban de filets de, 306 

Wafers, carnival, 844 

cocoanut, 842 

French, 842 

milk, 842 

vanilla, 841 

walnut, 842 
Water, apple, 631 

barley, 631 

egg and soda, 631 

rice, 631 

Souchy, 149 

toast, 631 
Westphalia balls, 397 
Whisky, currant, 908 

sUng, 909 

smash Scotch, 909 
White devil, 350 
White-wine whey, 632 
Whitebait, curried, 134 

devilled, 134 

fried, 134 



Whitebait, with fine herbs, 136 
Whiting, Colbert style, 130 
EngUsh style, 130 
fried, 615 ( 

fried in batter, 129 
on skewers, fillets of, 130 
rolls with HoUandaise sauce, 

129 
souffle, 128, 612 
steamed, white sauce, 612 
with ravigote sauce, quen- 
- elles of, 128 
Wild duck, salmi of, 338 

with orange, breasts of, 

338 
with orange salad, 385 
Winchester cutlets, 396 
Wine, mulled, 632 
Woodcock, LucuUus type, fillets 
of, 342 
Scotch, 865 
Woodcocks, roast, 341 

Yule log, 819 

Zephires de foie-gras k la su- 
preme, 250 



BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTEIIS, OUILUFORD, BNOLANO 



0//fc 



// 




BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 717 3 



