HOME PORK 
/A A K I N G 



A. XV, PULTON 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








<r'^^'~"^~ ~'~ ^ - 


1 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924094646407 



]4ome 

Pork 

JVLaking 



A complete guide for the farmer, the coun- 
try butcher and the suburban dweller, in 
all that pertains to hog slaughtering, cur- 
ing, preserving and storing pork product — 
from scalding vat to kitchen table and 
dining room. 



By 



Commercial editor American Agriculturist and Oran^ 
Judd Farmer, assisted by PoTk Specialists in the United 
States and England. 



New York and Chicago 

Orange Judd Company 
1911 



SP6C.Cot-L. 

TX 

.5 
Pel 



Of all the delicacies In the whole mundus edfbiles, I will maiu- 
taln roast pig to be the most delicate. There is no flavor com- 
parable, I will contend, to that of the crjsp, tawnv. welt 
watched, not over-roasted crackling, as it is well called — the 
very teeth are invited to their share of the pleasure at this 
banquet in overcoming the coy, brittle resistance— with the 
adhesive oleaginous— oh, call it not fat! but an indefinable 
sweetness growing up to it — the tender blossoming of fat — fat 
cropped in the bud— taken in the shoot— in the first innocence-* 
the cream and quintessence of the child-pig's yet pure food— 
the lean, no lean, but a kind of animal manna — or rather fat 
and lean (if It must be so) so blended and running into ea£h 
other that both together make but one ambrosian result or 
common substance.— [Charles Lamb. 



Printed in U. S. A. 



CJopyright 190O 

BY 

OBAKGE JUDD COMPANY 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Intboduction. 

Pork making on the farm nearly a lost art — General merit 
of homemade pork— Acknowledgments. 

Chapteb I.— Pobk Making on the Fakm. 

Best time for killing— A home market for farm pork — Op- 
portunities for profit- Farm census of live stock for a series 
of years. 

Chapteb II.— Finishing Off Hogs fob Bacon. 

Flesh forming rations — Corn as a fat producer — Just the 
quality of bacon wanted— Normandy Hogs. 

Chapteb III.— Slaughteeing. 

Methods employed— Necessary apparatus— Heating water 
for scalding. 

Chapteb ly.— Scalding and Scb aping. 

Saving the bristles— Scalding tubs and vats— Temperature 
for scalding— "Singeing pigs"— Methods of Singeing. 

Chapteb V.— Debssing and Cutting. 

Best time for dressing — Opening the carcass — Various use- 
ful appliances — Hints on dressing — How to cut up a hog. 

Chapteb VI.— What to do with the Offal. 

Portions classed as oSal — Recipes and complete directions 
for utilizing the wholesome parts, aside from the principal 
pieces— Sausage, scrapple, jowls and head, brawn, head- 
cheese. 

Chapteb VII.— The Fine Points in Making Labd. 

Kettle and steam rendered— Time required in making- 
Storing. 

Chapteb VIII. —Pickling and Babbeling. 

a clean barrel one of the first considerations — The use of 
salt on pork strips— Pickling by covering with brine— Re- 
newing pork brine. 

Chapteb IX.— Cake of Hams and Shoulders. 

A flrst-class ham— A geneial cure for ham and shoulders— 
FickUng preparatory to smoking— Westphallan hams. 

iii 



Chapter X.— Dkt Saltikg Bacon and Sii>e8. 

Proper proportion of salt to meat— Other preservatlres— 
Applying the salt— Best distribution of the salt— Time re- 
quired in curing— Pork for the south. 

Chapter XL— Smoking and Smokehouses. 

Treatment previous to smoking— Simple but effective 
smokehouses — Controlling the fire in smoke formation- 
Materials to produce best flavor— The choice of weather- 
Variety in smokehouses. 

Chapter XII.— Keeping Hams and Bacon. 

The ideal meat house— Best temperature and surroumflings— 
Precautions against skippers— To exclude the bugs eatiiely. 

Chapter XIII.— Side Lights on Pork Making. 

Growth of the big packing liouses- Average weight of live 
hogs—" Net to gross"— Relative weights of various portions 
of the carcass. 

Chapter XIV.— Packing House Cuts op Pork. 

Descriptions of the leading cuts of meat known as the 
' speculative commodities in the pork product — Mess pork, 

short ribs, shoulders and hams, English, bacon varieties of 
lard. 

Chapter XV.— Magnitude op the Swine Industry. 

Importance of the foreign demand — Statistics of th9 trade 
—Receipts at leading points— Prices for a series of years- 
Co-operative curing houses in Denmark. 

Chapter XVL— Discovering the Merits op Roast Pig. 

The immortal Charles Lamb on the art of roasting— An 
oriental luxury of luxuries. 

Chapter XVIL— Recipes for Cooking and Serving Pork. 
Success in the kitchen— Prize methods of best cooks — unap- 
proachable list of especially prepared recipes — Aoastg, 
pork pie, cooking bacon, pork and beans, servin" "txips 
and cutlets, use of spare ribs, the New England bollea din- 
ner, ham and sausage, etc. 



IT 



INTRODUCTION. 



Hog killing and pork making on the farm have 
become almost lost arts in these days of mammoth 
packing establishments which handle such enormous 
numbers of swine at all seasons of the year. Yet the 
progressive farmer of to-day should not only provide 
his own fresh and cured pork for family use, but also 
should be able to supply at remunerative prices such 
persons in his neighborhood as appreciate the excel- 
lence and general merit of country or "homemade" 
pork product. This is true, also, though naturally in 
a less degree, of the townsman who fattens one or two 
pigs on the family kitchen slops, adding sufficient 
grain ration to finish ofif the pork for autumn 
slaughter. 

The only popular book of the kind ever published, 
"Home Pork Making " furnishes in a plain manner 
just such detailed information as is needed to enable 
the farmer, feeder, or country butcher to successfully 
and economically slaughter his own hogs and cure 
his own pork. All stages of the work are fully pre- 
sented, so that even without experience or special 
equipment any intelligent person can readily follow 
the instructions. Hints are given about finishing off 
hogs for bacon, hams, etc. Then, beginning with 
proper methods of slaughtering, the various processes 
are clearly presented, including every needful detail 
from the scalding vat to the kitchen baking dish and 
dining-room table. 

The various chapters treat successively of the fol- 
lowing, among other branches of the art of pork 

V 



INTRODUCTION. 

making: Possibilities of profit in home curing and 
marketing pork; finishing oS hogs for bacon; class of 
rations best adapted, flesh and fat forming foods; best 
methods of slaughtering hogs, with necessary adjuncts 
for this preliminary work; scalding and scraping; the 
construction of vats; dressing the carcass; cooling 
and cutting up the meat; best disposition of the ofifal; 
the making of sausage and scrapple; success in pro- 
ducing a fine quality of lard and the proper care of it. 

Several chapters are devoted to putting down and 
curing the different cuts of meat in a variety of ways 
for many purposes. Here will be found the prized 
recipes and secret processes employed in making the 
popular pork specialties for which England, Virginia, 
Kentucky, New England and other sections are noted. 
Many of these points involve the old and well-guarded 
methods upon which more than one fortune has been 
made, as well as the newest and latest ideas for curing 
pork and utilizing its products. Among these the 
subject of pickling and barreling is thoroughly treated, 
renewing pork brine; care of barrels, etc. The 
proper curing of hams and shoulders receives minute 
attention, and so with the work of dry salting bacon 
and sides. A chapter devoted to smoking and smoke- 
houses affords all necessary light on this important 
subject, including a number of helpful illustrations; 
success in keeping bacon and hams is fully described, ■ 
together with many other features of the work of home 
curing. The concluding portion of the book affords 
many interesting details relating to the various cuts 
of meat in the big packing houses, magnitude of the 
swine industry and figures covering the importance of 
our home and foreign trade in pork and pork product. 

In completing this preface, descriptive of the vari- 
ous features of the book, the editor wishes to give 
credit to our friends who have added to its value 

vi 



INTRODUCTION. 

through various contributions and courtesies. A con- 
siderable part of the chapters giving practical direc- 
tions for cutting and curing pork are the results of 
the actual experience of B. W. Jones of Virginia; we 
desire also to give due credit to contributions by P. H. 
Hartwell, Rufus B. Martin, Henry Stewart and many 
other practical farmers; to Hately Brothers, leading 
packers at Chicago; North Packing and Provision Co. 
of Boston, and to a host of intelligent women on 
American farms, who, through their practical experi- 
ence in the art of cooking, have furnished us with 
many admirable recipes for preparing and serving 
pork. 



vfi 



CHAPTER I. 

POKK MAKING ON THE FARM. 

During the marvelous growth of the packing 
industry the past generation, methods of slaughtering 
and handling pork have undergone an entire revolu- 
tion. In the days of our fathers, annual hog-killing 
time was as much an event in the family as the har- 
vesting of grain. With the coming of good vigorous 
frosts and cold weather, reached in the Northern states 
usually in November, every farmer would kill one, 
two or more hogs for home consumption, and fre- 
quently a considerable number for distribution through 
regular market channels. Nowadays, however, the 
big pork packing establishments have brought things 
down to such a fine point, utilizing every part of the 
animal (or, as has been said, "working up everything 
but the pig's squeal"), that comparatively few hogs out 
of all the great number fattened are slaughtered and 
cut up on the farm. 

Unquestionably there is room for considerable 
business of this character, and if properly conducted, 
with a thorough understanding, farmers can profitably 
convert some of their hogs into cured meats, lard, hams, 
bacon, sausage, etc., finding a good market at home 
and in villages and towns. Methods now in use are 
not greatly dififerent from those followed years ago, 
although of course improvement is the order of the day, 
and some important changes have taken place, as will 
be seen in a study of our sages. A few fixtures and 
implements are necessary to properly cure and pack 

jf - — 



2 HOME PORK MAKING. 

pork, but these may be simple, inexpensive and at the 
same time efficient. Such important portions of the 
work as the proper cutting of the throat, scalding, scrap- 
ing, opening and cleaning the hog should be under- 
taken by someone not altogether a novice. And there is 
no reason why every farmer should not advantageously 
slaughter one or more hogs each year, supplying the 
family with the winter's requirements and have some- 
thing left over to sell. 

THE POSSIBILITIES OP PROFIT 

in the intelligent curing and selling of homemade pork 
are suggested by the far too general custom of farmers 
buying their pork supplies at the stores. This custom 
is increasing, to say nothing of the very large number 
of townspeople who would be willing to buy home 
cured pork were it properly offered them. Probably it 
is not practicable that every farmer should butcher his 
own swine, but in nearly every neighborhood one or 
two farmers could do this and make good profits. The 
first to do so, the first to be known as having home 
cured pork to sell, and the first to make a reputation on 
it, will be the one to secure the most profit. 

In the farm census of live stock, hogs are given a 
very important place. According to the United States 
census of 1890 there were on farms in this country 
57.409'583 hogs. Returns covering later years place 
the farm census of hogs, according to compilations of 
Anterican Agriculturist and Orange Judd Farmer, rec- 
ognized authorities, at 47,061,000 in 1895, 46,302,000 in 
1896, and 48,934,000 in 1899. According to these 
authorities the average farm value of all hogs in 1899 
was $4.19 per head. The government report placed the 
average farm price in 1894 at $5.98, in '93, $6.41, and 
in 1892, $4.60. 



PORK MAKING ON THE FARM. 3 

A TRAVELING PIGPEN. 

It is often desirable to change the location of a pig- 
pen, especially where a single pig is kept. It may be 
placed in the garden at the time when there are waste 
vegetables to be disposed of, or it may be penned in a 




FIG. 1. PORTABLE PEN. 

grass lot. A portable pen, with an open yard attached, 
is seen in the accompanying illustrations. Figure i pre- 
sents the pen, the engraving showing it so clearly that 
no description is needed. The yard, seen in Fig. 2, is 
placed with the open space next to the door of the pen. 




FIG. 2. YARD ATTACHMENT. 



SO that the pig can go in and out freely. The yard is 
attached to the pen by hooks and staples, and both of 
them are provided with handles, by which they can be 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



lifted and carried from place to place. Both the yard 
and pen should be floored, to prevent the pig from tear- 
ing up the ground. The floors should be raised a few 
inches from the ground, that they may be kept dry and 
made durable. 



CHAPTER II. 

FINISHING OFF HOGS FOR BACON. 

The general subject of feeding and fattening hogs 
it is not necessary here to discuss. It will suffice to 
point out the advisability of using such rations as will 
finish off the swine in a manner best fitted to produce 
a good bacon hog. An important point is to feed a 
proper proportion of flesh-forming ration rather than 
one which will serve to develop fat at the expense of 
lean. The proper proportion of these will best sub- 
serve the interest of the farmer, whether he is finishing 
off swine for family use or for supplying the market 
with home cured bacon. A diet composed largely of 
protein (albuminoids) results in an increased propor- 
tion of lean meat in the carcass. On the other hand, a 
ration made up chiefly of feeds which are high in 
starchy elements, known as carbohydrates, yields very 
largely in fat (lard). A most comprehensive chart 
showing the relative values of various fodders and feed- 
ing stufifs has been prepared by Herbert Myrick, editor 
of American Agriculturist, and will afford a good many 
valuable hints to the farmer who wishes to feed his 
swine intelligently. This points out the fact that such 
feeds as oats, barley, cowpea hay, shorts, red clover 
hay and whole cottonseed are especially rich in flesh- 
forming properties. 

Corn, which is rich in starch, is a great fat producer 
and should not be fed too freely in finishing off hogs 
for the best class of bacon. In addition to the important 

s 



6 HOME PORK MAKING. 

muscle-producing feeds noted above, there are others 
rich in protein, such as bran, skim milk, buttermilk, etc. 
While corn is naturally the standby of all swine grow- 
ers, the rations for bacon purposes should include these 
muscle-producing feeds in order to bring the best 
results. If lean, juicy meat is desired", these muscle 
forming foods should be continued to the close. In 
order to get 

JUST THE QUALITY OF BACON THAT IS WANTED, 

feeders must so arrange the ration that it will contain a 
maximum of muscle and a minimum of fat. This gives 
the sweet flavor and streaked meat which is the secret 
of the popularity of the Irish and Danish bacon. Our 
American meats are as a rule heavy, rich in fat and in 
marked contrast with the light, mild, sweet flavored 
pork well streaked with lean, found so generally in the 
English market and cured primarily in Ireland and 
Denmark. What is wanted is a long, lean, smooth, 
bacon hog something after the Irish hog. Here is a 
hint for our American farmers. 

England can justly boast of her hams and bacon, 
but for sweet, tender, lean pork the Normandy hogs 
probably have no superior in the world. They are fed 
largely on meat-producing food, as milk, peas, barley, 
rye and wheat bran. They are not fed on corn meal 
aione. They are slaughtered at about six months. The 
bristles are burned of? by laying the carcass on straw 
and setting it on fire. Though the carcasses come out 
black, they are scraped white and clean, and dressed 
perfectly while warm. It is believed that hogs thus 
dressed keep better and that the meat is sweeter 

SELF-CLOSING DOOR FOR PIGPEN. 

Neither winter snows nor the spring and summer 
rains should be allowed to beat into a pigpen. But the 



FINISHING OFF HOGS FOR BACON. 7 

difficulty is to have a door that will shut itself and can 
be opened by the animals whenever they desire. The 
engraving, Fig. 3, shows a door of this kind that can be 
applied to any pen, at least any to which a door can be 
affixed at all. It is hung on hooks and staples to the 
lintel of the doorway, and swinging either way allows 
the inmates of the pen to go out or in, as they please, 
— closing automatically. If the door is intended to fit 
closely, leather strips two inches wide should be nailed 




FIG. 3. AUTOMATIC DOOR. 



around the frame of the doorway, then as the door 
closes it presses tightly against these strips. 



A HOG-FEEDING CONVENIENCE. 

The usual hog's trough and the usual method of 
getting food into it are conducive to a perturbed state 
of mind on the part of the feeder, because the hog is 
accustomed to get bodily into the trough, where he is 
likely to receive a goodly portion of his breakfast or 
dinner upon the top of his head. The ordinary trough 
too, is difficult to clean out for a similar reason — ^the 



8 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



pig usually standing in it. The diagram shown here- 
with, Fig. 4 gives a suggestion for a trough that over- 
comes some of the difficulties mentioned, as it is easily 
accessible from the outside, both for pouring in food 




FIG. 4. PROTECTED TROUGH. 



and for removing any dirt or litter that may be in it. 
The accompanying sketch so plainly shows the con- 
struction that detailed description does not appear to be 
necessary. 



CHAPTER III. 



SLAUGHTERING. 



Whatever may be said as to the most humane 
modes of putting to death domestic animals intended 
for food, butchering with the knife, all things consid- 
ered, is the best method to pursue with the hog. The 
hog should be bled thoroughly when it is killed. 
Butchering by which the heart is pierced or the main 
artery leading from it severed, does this in the most 
efifectual way, ridding the matter of the largest percent- 
age of blood, and leaving it in the best condition for 
curing and keeping well. The very best bacon cannot be 
made of meat that has not been thoroughly freed from 
blood, and this is a fact that should be well remembered. 
Expert butchers, who know how to seize and hold the 
hog and insert the knife at the proper place, are quickly 
through with the job, and often before the knife can be 
withdrawn from the incision, the blood will spurt out 
in a stream and insensibility and death will speedily 
ensue. It is easjfc however, for a novice to make a 
botch, of it; hence the importance that none but an 
expert be given a knife for this delicate operation. 

There are some readily made devices by which one 
man at killing time may do as much as three or four, 
and with one helper a dozen hogs may be made into 
finished pork between breakfast and dinner, and with- 
out any excitement or worry or hard work. It is sup- 
posed that the hogs are in a pen or pens, where they 
may be easil}^ roped by a noose around one hind leg. 
This being done, the animal is led to the door and 

9 



lO HOME PORK MAKING. 

guided into a box, having a slide door to shut it in. The 
bottom of the box is a hinged lid. As soon as the hog 
is safely in the box and shut in by sliding down the 
back door, and fastening it by a hook, the box is turned 
over, bringing the hog on his back. The bottom of the 
box is opened immediately and one man seizes a hind 
foot, to hold the animal, while the other sticks the hog 
in the usual manner. The box is turned and lifted from 
the hog, which, still held by the rope is moved to the 
dressing bench. All this may be done while the 
previous hog is being scalded and dressed, or the work 




FIG. 5. HEATING WATER IN KETTLES. 

may be so managed that as soon as one hog is hung 
and cleaned the next one is ready for the scalding. 

NECESSARY AIDS. 

Before the day for slaughter arrives, have every- 
thing ready for performing the work in the best man- 
ner. There may be a large boiler for scalding set in 
masonry with a fireplace underneath and a flue to carry 
oflf the smoke. If this is not available, a large hogs- 
head may be utilized at the proper time. A long table, 
strong and immovable, should be fixed close to the 
boiler, on which the hogs are to be drawn after having 
. been scalded, for scraping. On each side of this table 
scantlings should be laid in the form of an open floor- 



SLAUGHTERING. 



II 



ing, and upon this the farmer and helpers may stand 
while at work, thus keeping their feet off the ground, 
out of the water and mud that would otherwise be dis- 
agreeable. An appreciated addition on a rainy day 
would be a substantial roof over this boiler and bench. 
This should be strong and large enough so that the hog 
after it is cleaned may be properly hung up. Hooks 
and gambrels are provided, knives are sharpened, a pile 
of dry wood is placed there, and everything that will be 
needed on the day of butchering is at hand. 

HEATING WATER FOR SCALDING. 

For heating scalding water and rendering lard, 
when one has no kettles or cauldrons ready to set in 




PIG. 6. PRACTICAL HEATING AND SCALDING VAT. 



brick or stone, a simple method is to put down two 
forked stakes firmly, as shown in Fig. 5, lay in them a 
pole to support the kettles, and build a wood fire 
around them on the ground. A more elaborate 
arrangement is shown in Fig. 6, which serves not only 
to heat the water, but as a scalding tub as well. It is 
made of two-inch pine boards, six feet long and two 
feet wide, rounded at the ends. A heavy plate of sheet 
iron is nailedwithwrought nails on thebottomandends 



12 HOME PORK MAKING. 

Let the iron project fully one inch on each side. The 
ends, being rounded, will prevent the fire from burning 
the woodwork. They also make it handier for dip- 
ping sheep, scalding hogs, or for taking out the boiled 
food. The box is set on two walls i8 inches high, and 
the rear end of the brickwork is built into a short 
chimney, affording ample draft. 



CHAPTER IV. 



SCALDING AND SCRAPING. 



Next comes the scalding and dressing of the car- 
cass. Lay the hog upon the table near the boiler and 
let the scalders who stand ready to handle it place it in 
the water heated nearly to a boiling point. The scald- 
ers keep the hog in motion by turning it about in the 




FIG. 7. TACKLE FOR HEAVY HOGS. 

water, and occasionally they try the bristles to see if 
they will come away readily. As soon as satisfied on 
this point, the carcass is drawn from the boiler and 
placed upon the bench, where it is rapidly and thor- 

13 



14 HOME PORK MAKING. 

onghly scraped. The bristles or hair that grow along 
the back of the animal are sometimes sold to brush 
makers, the remainder of the hair falling beside the 
table and gathered up for the manure heap. The car- 
cass must not remain too long in the hot water, as this 
will set the hair. In this case it will not part from the 
skin, and must be scraped ofif with sharp knives. For 
this reason an experienced hand should attend to the 
scalding. The hair all off, the carcass is hung upon 
the hooks, head down, nicely scraped and washed with 
clean water preparatory to disemboweling. 

SCALDING TUBS AND VATS. 

Various devices are employed for scalding hogs, 
without lifting them by main force. For heavy hogs, 
one may use three strong poles, fastened at the top 
with a log chain, which supports a simple tackle. Fig. 
7. A very good arrangement is shown in Fig. 8. A 
sled is made firm with driven stakes and covered with 
planks or boards. At the rear end the scalding cask 
is set in the ground, its upper edge on a level with the 
platform and inclined as much as it can be and hold 
suiificient water. A large, long hog is scalded one end 
at a time. The more the cask is inclined, the easier 
will be the lifting. 




FIG. 8. SCALDING CASK ON SLED. 

A modification of the above device is shown in 
Fig. 9. A lever is rigged like a well sweep, using a 



SCALDING AND SCRAPING. 1 5 

crotched stick for the post, and a strong poie for the 
sweep. The iron rod on which the sweep moves must 
be strong and stiff. A trace chain is attached to the 
upper end, and if the end of the chain has a ring instead 
of a hook, it will be quite convenient. In use, a table 
is improvised, tmless a strong one for the purpose is 
at hand, and this is set near the barrel. A noose is 
made with the chain about the leg of the hog, and he is 
soused in, going entirely under water, lifted out when 




FIG. 9. SCALDING IN A HOGSHEAD. 

the bristles start easily, and laid upon the table, while 
another is made ready. 

Figure 10 shows a more permanent arrangement. 
It is a trough of plank with a sheet iron bottom, which 
can be set over a temporary fireplace made in the 
ground. The vat may be six feet long, three feet wide 
and two and one-half feet deep, so as to be large enough 
for a good-sized hog. Three ropes are fastened on one 
side, for the purpose of rolling the hog over into the 
vat and rolling it out on the other side when it is 
scalded. A number of slanting crosspieces are fitted 
in, crossing each other, so as to form a hollow bed in 
which the carcass lies, with the ropes under it, by 
which it Can be moved and drawn out. These cross- 



l6 HOME PORK MAKING. 

pieces protect the sheet iron bottom and keep the car- 
cass from resting upon it. A large, narrow fireplace 
is built up in the ground, with stoned sides, and the 
trough is set over it. A stovepipe is fitted at one end, 
and room is made at the front by which wood may be 
supplied to the fire to heat the water. A sloping table 
is fitted at one side for the purpose of rolling up the 
carcass, when too large to handle otherwise, by means 
of the rope previously mentioned. On the other side 
is a frame made of hollowed boards set on edge, upon 
which the hog is scraped and cleaned. The right tem- 
perature for scalding a hog is i8o degrees, and with 
a thermometer there need be no fear of overscalding 
or a failure from the lack of sufficient heat, while the 
water can be kept at the right temperature by regu- 
lating the fuel under the vat. If a spot of hair is obsti- 
nate, cover it with some of the removed hair and dip 
on hot water. Always pull out hair and bristles; shav- 
ing any off leaves unpleasant stubs in the skin. 

SINGEING PIGS. 

A few years ago, "singers" were general favorites 
with a certain class of trade wanting a light bacon pig, 
weighing about 170 lbs., the product being exported 
to England for bacon purposes. Packers frequently 
paid a small premium for light hogs suitable for this 
end, but more recently the demand is in other direc- 
tions. The meat of singed hogs is considered by some 
to possess finer flavor than that of animals the hair 
of which has been removed by the ordinary process. 
Instead of being scalded and scraped in the ordinary 
manner, the singeing process consists in lowering the 
carcass into an iron or steel box by means of a heavy 
chain, the receptacle having been previously heated 
to an exceedingly high temperature. After remaining 



SCALDING AND SCRAPING. I^ 

there a very few seconds the hog is removed and upon 
being placed in hot water the hair comes off instantly. 
An old encyclopedia, published thirty years ago, 
in advocating the singeing process, has this to say: 
"The hog should be swealed (singed), and not scalded, 
as this method leaves -the flesh firm and more solid. 
This is done by covering the hog lightly with straw, 
then set fire to it, renewing the fuel as it is burned 




FIG. 10. PEIiMANENT VAT FOR SCALDING. 

away, taking care not to burn the skin. After suffi- 
cient singeing, the skin is scraped, but not washed. 
After cutting up, the flesh side of the cuts is rubbed 
with salt, which should be changed every four or five 
days. The flitches should also be transposed, the bot- 
tom ones at the top and the top ones at the bottom. 
Some use four ounces saltpetre and one pound coarse 
sugar or molasses for each hog. Six weeks is allowed 
for thus curing a hog weighing 240 lbs. The flitches 
before smoking are rubbed with bran or very fine saw- 
dust and after smoking are often kept in clear, dry 
wood ashes or very dry sand." 



CHAPTER V. 



DRESSING AND CUTTING. 



When the carcasses have lost the animal heat they 
are put away till the morrow, by which time, if the 
weather is fairly cold, the meat is stiff and firm and in 
a condition to cut out better than it does when taken 
in its soft and pliant state. If the weather is very cold, 
however, and there is danger that the meat will freeze 
hard before morning, haste is made to cut it up the 
same day, or else it is put into a basement or other 
warm room, or a large fire made near it to prevent it 
from freezing. Meat that, is frozen will not take salt, 
or keep from spoiling if salted. Salting is one of the 
most important of the several processes in the art of 
curing good bacon, and the pork should be in just the 
right condition for taking or absorbing the salt. Mod- 
erately cold and damp weather is the best for this. 

AS THE CARCASS IS DRESSED 

it is lifted by a hook at the end of a swivel lever 
mounted on a post and swung around to a hanging 
bar, placed conveniently. This bar has sliding hooks 
made to receive the gambrel sticks, which have a hook 
permanently attached to each so that the carcass is 
quickly removed from the swivel lever to the slide 
hook on the bar. The upper edge of the bar is rounded 
and smoothed and greased to help the hooks to slide 
on it. This serves to hang all the hogs on the bar 
utitil they are cooled. If four persons are employed 
this work may be done very quickly, as they may divide 

l8 



DRESSING AND CUTTING. I9 

the work between them; one hog is being scalded and 
cleaned while another is being dressed. 

Divested of its coat, the carcass is washed off 
nicely with clean water before being disemboweled. 
For opening the hog, the operator needs a sharp 
butcher's knife, and should know how to use it with 
dexterity, so as not to cut the entrails. The entrails 
and paunch, or stomach, are first removed, care being 
taken not to cut any; then the liver, the "dead ears" 
removed from the heart, and the heart cut open to 




riG. IL EASY METHOD OF BANGIXG A CAKCAS3. 

remove any clots of blood that it may contain. The 
windpipe is then slit open, and the whole together is 
hung upon the gambrel beside the hog or placed tem- 
porarily into a tub of water. The "stretcher," a small 
stick some sixteen inches long, is then placed across 
the bowels to hold the sides well open and admit the air 
to cool the carcass, and a chip or other small object 
is placed in the mouth to hold it open, and the interior 
parts of the hog about the shoulders and gullet are 
nicely washed to free them from stains of blood. The 



20 HOME PORK MAKING. 

carcass is then left to hang upon the gallows in order 
to cool thoroughly before it is cut into pieces or put 
away for the night. 

Where ten or twelve hogs are dressed every year, 
it will pay to have a suitable building arranged for the 
work. An excellent place may be made in the drive- 
way between a double corncrib, or in a wagon shed or 
an annex to the barn where the feeding pen is placed. 
The building should have a stationary boiler in it, and 
such apparatus as has been suggested, and a windlass 
used to do the lifting. 

HOG KILMNG MADE KAST. 

In the accompanying cut, Fig. ii, the bolster rep- 
resents a homemade apparatus that has been in use 
many years and it has been a grand success. The 
frames, a, a, a, a, are of 2x4 inch scantling, 8 ft. in 
length; b, b, are 2x6 inch and 2 ft. long with a round 
notch in the center of the upper surface for a windlass, 
d, to turn in; c, c are 2x4 and 8 ft. long, or as long as 
desired, and are bolted to a, a. Ten inches beyond 
the windlass, d, is a 4x4 inch piece with arms bolted on 
the end to turn the windlass and draw up the carcass, 
which should be turned lengthwise of the bolster until 
it passes between c, c. The gambrel should be long 
enough to catch on each side when turned crosswise, 
thus relieving the windlass so that a second carcass 
may be hoisted. The peg, e, is to place in a hole of 
upright, a, to hold the windlass. Brace the frame in 
proportion to the load that is to be placed upon it. The 
longer it is made, the more hogs can be hung at the 
same time. 

THE SAWBUCK SCAFFOLD. 

Figure 12 shows a very cheap and convenient de- 
vice for hanging either hogs or beeves. The device is in 



DRESSING AND CUTTING. 21 

shape much like an old-fashioned "sawbuck," with 
the lower rounds between the legs omitted. The legs, 
of which there are two pairs, should be about ten feet 
long and set bracing, in the manner shown in the 
engraving. The two pairs of legs are held together 
by an inch iron rod, five or six feet in length, provided 
with threads at both ends. The whole is made secure 
by means of two pairs of nuts, which fasten the legs to 




FIG. 12. RAISING A CARCASS. 

the connecting iron rod. A straight and smooth 
wooden roller rests in the forks made by the crossing 
of the legs, and one end projects about sixteen inches. 
In this two augur holes are bored, in which levers may 
be inserted for turning the roller. The rope, by means 
of which the carcass is raised, passes over the rollers 
in such a way that in turning, by means of the levers, 
the animal is raised from the ground. When suffi- 
ciently elevated, the roller is fastened by one of the 
levers to the nearest leg. 



22 HOME PORK MAKING. 

PROPER SHAPE OF GAMBRBLS. 

Gambrels should be provided of different lengths, 
if the hogs vary much in size. That shown in Fig. 13 
is a convenient shape. These should be of hickory or 
other tough wood for safety, and be so small as to 
require little gashing of the legs to receive them. 

GALLOWS FOR DRESSED HOGS. 

The accompanying device. Fig. 14, for hanging 
dressed hogs, consists of a stout, upright post, six or 
eight inches square and ten feet long, the lower three 
feet being set into the ground. Near the upper end 
are two mortises, each 2x4 inches, quite through the 
post, one above the other, as shown in the engraving, 




A CONVENIENT GAMBRBL. 



for the reception of the horizontal arms. The latter 
are six feet long and just large enough to fit closely 
into the mortises. They should be of white oak or 
hickory. At butchering time the dead hogs are hung 
on the scaffold by slipping the gambrels upon the hori- 
zontal crosspieces. 

ADDITIONAL HINTS ON DRESSING. 

Little use of the knife is required to loosen the 
entrails. The fingers, rightly used, will do most of the 
severing. Small, strong' strings, cut in proper lengths, 
should be always at hand to quickly tie the severed 
ends of any small intestines cut or broken by chance. 
An expert will catch the entire offal in a large tin pan 
or wooden vessel, which is held between himself and 



DRESSING AND CUTTING. 23 

the hog. Unskilled operators, and those opening very 
large hogs, need an assistant to hold this. The entrails 
and then the liver, heart, etc., being all removed, thor- 
oughly rinse out any blood or filth that may have 
escaped inside. Removing the lard from the long 




■FIG. 14. SIMPLE SUPPORT FOR DRESSED HOG. 

intestines requires expertness that can be learned only 
by practice. The fingers do most of this cleaner, safer 
and better than a knife. A light feed the night before 
killing leaves the intestines less distended and less 
likely to be broken. 

HOW TO CUT UP A HOG. 

With a sharp ax and a sharp butcher's knife at 
hand, lay the hog on the chopping bench, side down. 
With the knife make a cut near the ear clear across 
the neck and down to the bone. With a dextrous 
stroke of the ax sever the head from the body. Lay 
the carcass on the back, a boy holding it upright and 
keeping the forelegs well apart. With the ax proceed 
to take out the chine or backbone. If it is desired to 
put as much of the hog into neat meat as possible, trim 
to the chine very close, taking out none of the skin or 
outside fat with it. Otherwise, the cutter need not be 
particular how much meat comes away with the bone. 
What does not go with the neat meat will be in the 
ofifal or sausage, and nothing will be lost. Lay the 



24 HOME PORK MAKING. 

chine aside and with the knife finish separating the 
two divisions of the hog. Next, strip off with the 
hands the leaves or flakes of fat from the middle to the 
hams. Seize the hock of the ham with the left hand 
and with the knife in the other, proceed to round out 
the ham, giving it a neat, oval shape. Be very par- 
ticular in shaping the ham. If it is spoiled in the first 
cutting, no subsequent trimming will put it into a form 
to exactly suit the fastidious public eye. Trim off 
the surplus lean and fat and projecting pieces of bone. 
Cut off the foot just above the hock joint. The piece 
when finished should have nearly the form of a regular 
oval, with its projecting handle or hock. 

With the ax cut the shoulder from the middling, 
making the cut straight across near the elbow joint. 
Take off the end ribs or "spare bone" from the shoul- 
der, trim the piece and cut off the foot. For home use, 
trim the shoulder, as well as the other pieces, very 
closely, taking off all of both lean and fat that can be 
spared. If care is taken to cut away the head near 
the ear, the shoulder will be at first about as wide as 
long, having a good deal of the neck attached. If the 
meat is intended for sale and the largest quantity of 
bacon is the primary object, let the piece remain so. 
But if itjs preferred to have plenty of lard and sausage, 
cut a smart strip from off the neck side of the shoulder 
and make the piece assume the form of a parallelogram, 
with the hock attached to one end. Trim a slice of fat 
from the back for lard, take off the "short ribs," and, 
if preferred, remove the long ribs from the whole piece. 
The latter, however, is not often done by the farmers. 
Put the middling in nice shape by trimming it wherever 
needed, which, when finished, will be very much like a 
square in form, perhaps a little longer than broad, with 
a small circular piece cut out from the end next 
the ham. 



DRESSING AND CUTTING. 25 

The six pieces of neat meat are now ready for the 
Salter. The head is next cut open longitudinally from 
side to side, separating the jowl from the top or "head," 
so-called. The jawbone of the jowl is cut at the angle 
or tip and the "swallow," which is the larynx or upper 
part of the windpipe, is taken out. The headpiece is 
next cut open vertically and the lobe of the brain is 
taken out, and the ears and nose are removed. 

The bone of the chine is cut at several places for 
the convenience of the cook, and the task of the cut- 
ter is finished. Besides the .six pieces of neat meat, 
there are the chine, souse, jowl, head, fat, sausage, two 
spare and two short ribs and various other small bits 
derived from each hog. A good cutter, with an assist- 
ant to carry away the pieces and help otherwise, can 
cut out from 50 to 60 hogs in a day. 



CHAPTER VI. 

WHAT TO DO WITH THE OFFAL. 

Aside from the pieces of meat into which a hog 
is usually cut, there will be left as oflfal the chine or 
backbone, the jowl, the souse, the liver and lungs, pig's 
feet, two spareribs and, two short ribs or griskins. 
Nearly every housekeeper knows what disposition to 
make of all this, yet too often these wholesome portions 
of the hog are not utilized to best advantage. 

PORK SATJSAGE. 

Sausage has formed a highly prized article of food 
for a good many hundred years. Formed primarily 
as now, by chopping the raw meat very fine, and add- 
ing salt and other flavoring materials, and often meal 
or bread crumbs, the favorite varieties of to-day might 
not be considered any improvement over the recipes of 
the ancient Romans were they to pass judgment on the 
same. History tells us that these early Italian sau- 
sages were made of fresh pork and bacon, chopped 
fine, with the addition of nuts, and flavored with cumin 
seed, pepper, bay leaves and various pot herbs. Italy 
and Germany are still celebrated for their bologna 
sausages and with many people these smoked varieties 
are highly prized. 

Like pure lard, sausage is too often a scarce article 
in the market. Most city butchers mix a good deal of 
beef with the pork, before it is ground, and so have a 
sausage composed of two sorts of meat, which does 
not possess that agreeable, sweet, savory taste peculiar 

26 



WHAT TO DO WITH THE OFFAL. 27 

to nice fresh pork. The bits of lean, cut off when 
trimming the pieces of neat meat, the tenderloins, and 
slices of lean from the shoulders and hams, together 
with some fat, are first washed nicely, cleared of bone 
and scraps of skin, then put into the chopper, and 
ground fine. If a great deal of sausage is wanted, the 
neat meat is trimmed very close, so as to take all the 
lean that can be spared from the pieces. Sometimes 
whole shoulders are cut up and ground. The heads, 
too, or the fleshy part, make good sausage. Some 
housekeepers have the livers and "lights," or lungs, 
ground up and prepared for sausage, and they make 
a tolerable substitute. This preparation should be 
kept separate, from the other, however, and be eaten 
while cold weather lasts, as it will not keep as long as 
the other kind. 

After sausage is properly ground, add salt, sage, 
rosemary, and red or black pepper to suit the taste. 
The rosemary may be omitted, but sage is essential. 
All these articles should be made fine before mixing 
them with the meat. In order to determine accurately 
whether the sausage contains enough of these ingredi- 
ents, cook a little and taste it. 

If sausage is to be kept in jars, pack it away 
closely in them, as soon as it is ground and seasoned, 
and set the jars, securely closed, in a cool room. But 
it is much better to provide for smoking some of it, 
to keep through the spring and early summer. When 
the entrails are ready, stuff them full with the meat, 
after which the ends are tied and drawn together, and 
the sausage hung up in the smokehouse for smoking. 
This finishes the process of making pork sausage. 
Put up in this way, it deserves the name of sausage 
and it makes a dish good enough for any one. It is 
one of the luxuries of life which may be manufactured 
at home. 



28 HOME PORK MAKING. 



BOLOGNA SAUSAGE. 



The popular theory is that these famiUar sausages 
originated in the ItaHan city of that name, where the 
American visitor always stops for a bit of "the origi- 
nal." Many formulas are used in the preparation of 
bologna sausages, or rather many modifications of a 
general formul? Lean, fresh meat trimmings are 
employed and some add a small proportion of heart, all 
chopped very fine. While being chopped, spices and 
seasoning are added, with a sufiScient quantity of salt. 
The meat employed is for the most part beef, to which 
is added some fresh or salted pork. When almost com- 
pleted, add gradually a small quantity of potato flour 
and a little water. The mixture being of the proper 
consistency, stufif in beef casings, tie the ends together 
into rings of fair length and smoke thoroughly. This 
accomplished, boil until the sausages rise to the top, 
when they are ready for use. Some recipes provide 
for two parts of beef and one part of fat pork and the 
addition of a little ground coriander seed to the 
seasoning. 

WESTPHALIAN SAUSAGES 

are made in much the same manner as frankforts, 
chopped not quite so fine, and, after being cased, are 
smoked about a week. 

FRANKFORT SAUSAGES. 

Clean bits of pork, both fat and lean, are chopped 
fine and well moistened with cold water. These may 
be placed in either sheep or hog casings through the 
use of the homemade filler shown on another page. 

SUABIAN SAUSAGES. 

Chop very finely fat and lean meat until the mass 
becomes nearly a paste, applying a sprinkling of cold 



WHAT TO DO WITH THE OFFAL. 29 

water during the operation. Suabian sausages are 
prepared by either smoking or boiling, and in the latter 
case may be considered sufficiently cooked when they 
rise to the surface of the water in which they are boiled. 

ITALIAN PORK SAUSAGES. 

The preparation of these requires considerable 
care, but the product is highly prized by many. For 
every nine pounds of raw pork add an equal amount 
of boiled salt pork and an equal amount of raw veal. 
Then add two pounds selected sardines with all bones 
previously removed. Chop together to a fine mass 
and then add five pounds raw fat pork previously cut 
into small cubes. For the seasoning take six ounces 
salt, four ounces ground pepper, eight ounces capers, 
eight ounces pistachio nuts peeled and boiled in wine. 
All of these ingredients being thoroughly mixed, add 
about one dozen pickled and boiled tongues cut into 
narrow strips. Place the sausage in beef casings of 
good size. In boiling, the sausages should be wrap- 
ped in a cloth with liberal windings of stout twine and 
allowed to cook about an hour. Then remove to a 
cool place about 24 hours. 

TONGUE SAUSAGE. 

To every pound of meat used add two pounds of 
tongues, which have previously been cut into small 
pieces, mixing thoroughly. These are to be placed in 
large casings and boiled for about an hour. The flavor 
of the product may be improved if the tongues are pre- 
viously placed for a day in spiced brine. Pickled 
tongues are sometimes used, steeped first in cold water 
for several hours. 

BLACK FOREST SAUSAGES. 

This is an old formula followed extensively in 
years gone by in Germany. Very lean pork is chopped 



30 HOME PORK MAKING. 

into a fine mass and for every ten pounds, three pounds 
of fat bacon are added, previously cut comparatively 
fine. This is properly salted and spiced and sometimes 
a sprinkling of blood is added to improve the color. 
Fill into large casings, place over the fire in a kettle 
of cold water and simmer without boiling for nearly 
an hour. 

LIVER SAUSAGE. 

The Germans prepare this by adding to every five 
pounds of fat and lean pork an equal quantity of 
ground rind and two and one-half pounds liver. Pre- 
viously partly cook the rind and pork and chop fine, 
then add the raw liver well chopped and press through 
a coarse sieve. Mix all thoroughly with sufficient 
seasoning. As the raw liver will swell when placed in 
boiling water, these sausages should be filled into large 
skins, leaving say a quarter of the space for expansion. 
Boil nearly one hour, dry, then smoke four or five days. 

ROYAL CAMBRIDGE SAUSAGES 

are made by adding rice in the proportion of five 
pounds to every ten pounds of lean meat and six 
pounds of fat. Previously boil the rice about ten min- 
utes, then add gradually to the meat while being 
chopped fine, not forgetting the seasoning. The rice 
may thus be used instead of bread, and it is claimed 
to aid in keeping the sausages fresh and sweet. 

BRAIN SAUSAGES. 

Free from all skin and wash thoroughly the brain 
of two calves. Add one pound of lean and one pound 
of fat pork previously chopped fine. Use as seasoning 
four or five raw grated onions, one ounce salt, one-half 
ounce ground pepper. Mix thoroughly, place in beef 



WHAT TO DO WITH THE OFFAL. 3 1 

casings and boil about five minutes. Afterward hang 
in a cool place until read)' for use. 

TOMATO SArSAGES. 

Add one and one-half pounds pulp of choice ripe 
tomatoes to every seven pounds of sausage meat, using 
an addition of one pound of finely crushed crackers, 
the last named previously mixed with a quart of water 
and allowed to stand for some time before using. Add 
the mixture of tomato and cracker powder gradually 
to the meat while the latter is being chopped. Season 
well and cook thoroughly. 

SPANISH SAUSAGE 

is made by using one-third each leaf lard, lean and fat 
pork, first thoroughly boiling and chopping fine the 
meat. Add to this the leaf lard previously chopped 
moderately fine, mix well and add a little blood to 
improve the color and moisten the whole. This sausage 
is to be placed in large casings and tied in links eight 
to twelve inches long. In an old recipe for Spanish 
sausage seasoning it is made of seven pounds ground 
white pepper, six ounces ground nutmeg, eight ounces 
ground pimento or allspice and a sprinkling of 
bruised garlic. 

ANOTHER SAUSAGE SEASONING. 

To five pounds salt add two pounds best ground 
white pepper, three ounces ground mace, or an equal 
quantity of nutmeg, four ounces ground coriander 
seed, two ounces powdered cayenne pepper and mix 
thoroughly. 

ADMIXTURE OP BREAD. 

Very often concerns which manufacture sausage 
on a large scale add considerable quantities of bread. 



32 HOME PORK MAKING. 

This increases the weight at low cost, thus cheapening 
the finished product, and is also said to aid in keeping 
qualities. While this is no doubt thoroughly whole- 
some, it is not in vogue by our most successful farmers 
who have long made a business of preparing home- 
cured sausage. Bread used for sausages should have 
the crust removed, should be well soaked in cold water 
for some time before required, then pressed to remove 
the surplus moisture, and added gradually to the pork 
while being chopped. Some sausage manufacturers add 
lo to 15 per cent in weight of crushed crackers instead 
of bread to sausage made during hot weather. This is 
to render th'? product firm and incidentally to increase 
the weight through thoroughly mixing the cracker 
crumbs or powder with an equal weight or more of 
water before adding to the meat. 

SA.USAGB IN CASES. 

Many prefer to pack in sausage casings, either 
home prepared or purchased of a dealer in packers' 
supplies. Latest improved machines for rapidly filling 
the cases are admirably adapted to the work, and this 
can also be accomplished by a homemade device. Fig- 
ure 15 shows a simple bench and lever arrangement to 
be used with the common sausage filler, which lightens 
the work so much that even a small boy can use it with 
ease, and any person can get up the whole apparatus 
at home with little or no expense. An inch thick pine 
board one foot wide and four and one-fourth feet long 
is fitted with four legs, two and one-half feet long, 
notched into its edges, with the feet spread outward to 
give firmness. Two oak standards, eighteen inches high 
are set thirty-four inches apart, with a slot down the 
middle of each, for the admission of an oak lever eight 
feet long. The left upright has three or four holes, one 
above another, for the lever pin, as shown in the 



.WHAT TO DO WITH THE OFFAL. 



33 



engraving. The tin filler is set into the bench nearer 
the left upright and projects below for receiving the 
skins. Above the filler is a follower fitting closely into 
it, and its top working very loosely in the lever to allow 
full play as it moves up and down. The engraving 
shows the parts and mode of working. 

PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE. 

This is highly prized in some parts of the coun- 
try, affording a breakfast dish of great relish. A lead- 
ing Philadelphia manufacturer has furnished us with 
the following recipe: To make 200 lbs. of scrapple. 




FIG. 15. HOMEMADE SAUSAGE FILLER. 

take about 80 lbs. of good clean pork heads, remove 
the eyes, brains, snout, etc. Put in about 20 gals, of 
water and cook until it is thoroughly done. Then 
take out, separate the bones and chop the meat fine. 
Take about 15 gals, of the liquor left after boiling the 
heads, and if the water has boiled down to a quantity 
less than 15 gals., make up its bulk with hot water; 
if more than 15 gals, remain, take some of the water out, 
but be sure to keep some of the good fat liquor. Put 
this quantity of the liquor into a kettle, add the chop- 
ped meat, together with 10 oz. pure white pepper, 8 02. 
sweet marjoram, 2 lbs. fine salt. Stir well until the 



34 HOME PORK MAKING. 

liquor comes to a good boil. Have ready for use at 
this time 25 lbs. good Indian meal and 7 lbs. buck- 
wheat flour. As soon as the liquor begins to boil add the 
meal and flour, the two being previously fnixed dry. Be 
careful to put the meal in a little at a time, scattering 
it well and stirring briskly, that it may not burn to the 
kettle. Cook until well done, then place in pans to 
cool. The pans should be well greased, also the dip- 
per used, to prevent the scrapple sticking to the uten- 
sils. When cold, the scrapple is cut into slices and 
fried in the ordinary manner as sausage. Serve hot. 

SOUSE. 

After being carefully cleaned and soaked in cold 
water, the feet, ears, nose and sometimes portions of 
the head may be boiled, thoroughly boned, and pressed 
into bowls or other vessels for cake souse. But fre- 
quently these pieces, instead of being boned, are placed 
whole in a vessel and covered with a vinegar, and 
afterwards taken a little at a time, as wanted, and fried. 

JOWLS AND HEAD. 

If not made into souse or sausage, these may be 
boiled unsmoked, with turnips, peas or beans ; or 
smoked and cooked with cabbage or salad. The liver 
and accompanying parts, if not converted into sausage, 
may be otherwise utilized. 

THE SPARERIBS AND SHORT BONES 

may be cooked in meat pies with a crust, the same as 
chicken, or they may be fried or boiled. The large 
end of the chine makes a good piece for baking. The 
whole chine may be smoked and will keep a long time. 

CRACKNELS. 

This is the portion of the fat meat which is left 
after the lard is cooked, and is used by many as an 



WHAT TO DO WITH THE OFFAL. 35 

appetizing food. The cracknels may be pressed aniS 
thus much more lard secured. This latter, however, 
should be used before the best lard put away in tubs. 
After being pressed the cracknels are worked into a 
dough with corn meal and together made into crack- 
nel bread. 

BRAWN 

is comparatively little used in this country, though 
formerly a highly relished dish in Europe, where it 
was often prepared from the flesh of the wild boar. An 
ancient recipe is as follows: "The bones being taken 
out of the flitches (sides) or other parts, the flesh is 
sprinkled with salt and laid on a tray, that the blood 
may drain off, after which it is salted a little and rolled 
up as hard as possible. The length of the collar of 
brawn should be as much as one side of the boar will 
permit; so that when rolled up the piece may be nine 
or ten inches in diameter. After being thus rolled up, it 
is boiled in a copper or large kettle, till it is so tender 
that you may run a stif? straw through it. Then it is set 
aside till it is thoroughly cold, put into a pickle com- 
posed of water, salt, and wheat-bran, in the proportion 
of two handfuls of each of the latter to every gallon of 
water, which, after being well boiled together, is 
strained off as clear as possible from the bran, and, 
when quite cold, the brawn is put into it." 

HEAD CHEESE. 

This article is made usually of pork, or rather from 
the meat ofif the pig's head, skins, and coarse trim- 
mings. After having been well boiled, the meat is cut 
into pieces, seasoned well with sage, salt, and pepper, 
and pressed a little, so as to drive out the extra fat and 
water. Some add the meat from a beef head to make 



36 HOME PORK MAKING. 

it lean. Others add portions of heart and Hvef; 
heating all in a big pan or other vessel, and then run- 
ning through a sausage mill while hot. 

BLOOD PUDDINGS 

are usually made from the hog's blood with chopped 
pork, and seasoned, then put in casings and cooked. 
Some make them of beef's blood, adding a little milk; 
but the former is the better, as it is thought to be the 
richer. 

SPICED PUDDINGS. 

These are made somewhat like head-cheese, and 
often prepared by the German dealers, some of whom 
make large quantities. They are also made of the 
meat from the pig's chops or cheeks, etc., well spiced 
and boiled. Some smoke them. 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE .FINE POINTS IN MAKING LARD. 

Pure lard should contain less than one per cent of 
water and foreign matter. It is the fat of swine, sepa- 
rated from the animal tissue by the process of render- 
ing. The choicest lard is made from the whole "leaf." 
Lard is also made by the big packers from the residue 
after rendering the leaf and expressing a "neutral" 
lard, which is used in the manufacture of oleomarga- 
rine. A good quality of lard is made from back-fat and 
leaf rendered together. Fat from the head and intes- 
tines goes to make the cheaper grades. Lard may be 
either "kettle" or "steam rendered," the kettle process 
being usually employed for the choicer fat parts of the 
animal, while head and intestinal fat furnish the so- 
called "steam lard." Steam lard, however, is sometimes 
made from the leaf. On the other hand, other parts 
than the leaf are often kettle rendered. Kettle rendered 
lard usually has a fragrant cooked odor and a slight 
color, while steam lard often has a strong animal odor. 

TO REFINE LARD, 

a large iron pot is set over a slow fire of coals, a 
sfnall quantity of water is put into the bottom of 
the pot, and this is then filled to the brim with the 
fat, after it has first been cut into small pieces and 
nicely washed, to free it from blood and other impu- 
rities. If necessary to i keep out soot, ashes, etc., 
loose covers or lids are placed over the vessels, and 
the contents are made to simmer slowly for several 
hours. This work requires a careful and experienced 

37 



38 HOME PORK MAKING. 

hand to superintend it. Everything should be thor- 
oughly clean, and the attendant must possess patience 
and a practical knowledge of the work. It will not 
do to hurry the cooking. A slow boil or simmer is 
the proper way. The contents are occasionally stirred 
as the cooking proceeds, to prevent burning. The 
cooking is continued until the liquid ceases to bubble 
and becomes clear. So long as there is any milky or 
cloudy, appearance about the fat, it contains water, 
and in this condition will not keep well in summer — 
a matter of importance to the country housekeeper. 

It requires six to eight hours constant cooking 
to properly refine a kettle or pot of fat. The time 
will. depend, of course, somewhat upon the size of 
the vessel containing it and the thickness of the fat, 
and also upon the attention bestowed upon it by the 
cook. By close watching, so as to keep the fire just 
right all the time, it will cook in a shorter period, and 
vice versa. When the liquid appears clear the pots 
are set aside for the lard to cool a little before putting 
it into the vessels in which it is to be kept. The 
cracknels are first dipped from the pots and put into 
colanders, to allow the lard to drip from them. Some 
press the cracknels, and thus get a good deal more 
lard. As the liquid fat is dipped from the pots it is 
carefully strained through fine colanders or wire 
sieves. This is done to rid it of any bits of cracknel, 
etc., that may remain in the lard. Some country 
people when cooking lard add a few sprigs of rosemary 
or thyme, to impart a pleasant flavor to it. A slight 
taste of these herbs is not objectionable. Nothing 
else whatever is put into the lard as it is cooked, and 
if thoroughly done, nothing else is needed. A little 
salt is sometimes added, to make it firmer and keep 
it better in summer, but the benefit, if any, is slight, 
and too much salt is objectionable. 



^THE FINE POINTS IN MAKING LARD. 39 

LEAF LARD. 

In making lard, all the leaf or flake fat, the two 
leaves of almost solid fat that grow just above the 
hams on either side about the kidneys, and the choice 
pieces of fat meat cut ofif in trimming the pork should 
be tried or rendered first and separate from the 
remainder. This fat is the best and makes what is 
called the leaf lard. It may be put in the bottom of 
the cans, for use in summer, or else into separate jars 
or cans, and set away in a cool place. The entrail 
fat and bits of fat meat are cooked last and put on 
top of the other, or into separate vessels, to be used 
during cool weather. This lard is never as good as the 
other, and will not keep sweet as long; hence the 
pains taken by careful housewives to keep the two 
sorts apart. It must be admitted, however, that many 
persons, when refining lard for market, do not make 
any distinction, but lump all together, both in cook- 
ing and afterward. But for pure, honest "leaf" lard 
not a bit of entrail fat should be mixed with the 
flakes. 

A PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT POINT 

in making lard is to take plenty of time. The cooking 
must not be hurried in the least. It requires time 
to thoroughly dry out all the water, and the keeping 
quality of the lard depends largely upon this. A slow 
fire of coals only should be placed under the kettle, 
and great care exercised that no spark snaps into it, 
to set fire to the hot oil. It is well to have at hand 
some close-fitting covers, to be put immediately oyer 
the kettle, closing it tightly in case the oil should 
take fire. The mere exclusion of air will put out the 
fire at once. Cook slowly in order not to burn any 
of the fat in the least, as that will impart a very 



40 HOME PORK MAKING. 

unpleasant flavor to the lard. The attendants should 
stir well with a long ladle or wooden stick during the 
whole time of cooking. It requires several hours to 
thoroughly cook a vessel of lard, when the cracknels 
will eventually rise to the top. 

A cool, dry room, such as a basement, is the 
best place for keeping lard. Large stone jars are 
perhaps the best vessels to keep it in, but tins arc 
cheaper, and wooden casks, made of oak, are very 
good. Any pine wood, cedar or cypress will impart 
a taste of the wood. The vessels must be kept closed, 
to exclude litter, and care should be observed to 
prevent ants, mice, etc., from getting to the lard. A 
secret in keeping lard firm and good in hot weather 
is first to cook it well, and then set it in a cool, dry 
cellar, where the temperature remains fairly uniform 
throughout the year. Cover the vessels after they are 
set away in the cellar with closely fitting tops over 
a layer of oiled paper. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

PICKLING AND BARRELING. 

For salt pork, one of the first considerations is a 
clean barrel, which can be used over and over again 
after yearly renovation. A good way to clean the 
barrel is to place about ten gallons of water and a 
peck of clean wood ashes in the barrel, then throw 
in well-heated irons, enough to boil the water, cover 
closely, and by adding a hot iron occasionally, keep 
the mixture boiling a couple of hours. Pour out, wash 
thoroughly with fresh water, and it will be as sweet as 
a new barrel. Next cover the bottom of the barrel 
with coarse salt, cut the pork into strips about six 
inches wide, stand edgewise in the barrel, with the 
skin next the outside, until the bottom is covered. 
Cover with a thick coat of salt, so as to hide the 
pork entirely. Repeat in the same manner until the 
barrel is full, or the pork all in, covering the top 
thickly with another layer of salt. Let stand three or 
four days, then put on a heavy flat stone and sufficient 
cold water to cover the pork. After the water is on, 
sprinkle one pound best black pepper over all. An 
inch of salt in the bottom and between each layer and 
an inch and a half on top will be sufficient to keep 
the pork without making brine. 

When it is desired to pickle pork by pouring brine 
over the filled barrel, the following method is a 
favorite: Pack closely in the barrel, first rubbing the 
salt well into the exposed ends of bones, and sprinkle 
well between each layer, using no brine until forty-eight 

41 



4? 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



hours after, and then let the brine be strong enough to 
bear an egg. Aiter six weeks take out the hams and 
bacon and hang in the smokehouse. When warm 
weather brings danger of flies, smoke a week with 
hickory chips; avoid heating the air much. If one 
has a dark, close smokehouse, the meat can hang in 
it all summer; otherwise pack in boxes, putting layers 
of sweet, dry hay between. This method of packing 
is preferred by some to packing in dry salt or ashes. 

EBNEWING PORK BRINE. 

Not infrequently from insufficient salting and 
unclean barrels, or other cause, pork placed in brine 
begins to spoil, the brine smells bad, and the contents, 




FIG. 16. BOX FOR SALTING MEATS. 



if not soon given proper attention, will be unfit for 
food. As soon as this trouble is discovered, lose no 
time in removing the contents from the barrel, wash- 
ing each piece of meat separately in clean water. Boil 
the brine for half an hour, frequently removing the 
scum and impurities that will rise to the surface. 
Cleanse the barrel thoroughly by washing with hot 
water and hard wood ashes. Replace the meat after 
sprinkling it with a little fresh salt, putting the purified 



PICKLING AND BARRELING. 43 

brine back when cool, and no further trouble will be 
experienced, and if the work be well done, the meat will 
be sweet and firm. Those who pack meat for home 
use do not always remove the blood with salt. After 
meat is cut up it is better to lie in salt for a day and 
drain before being placed in the brine barrel. 

A HANDY SALTING BOX. 

A trough made as shown at Fig. i6 is very handy 
for salting meats, such as hams, bacon and beef, for 
drying. It is made of any wood which will not 
flavor the meat ; ash, spruce or hemlock plank, one and 
a half inches thick, being better than any others. A 
good size is four feet long by two and one-half wide 
and one and one-half deep. The joints should be made 
tight with white lead spread upon strips of cloth, and 
screws are vastly better than nails to hold the trough 
together. 



CHAPTER IX. 

CARE OF HAMS AND SHOULDERS. 

In too many instances farmers do not have the 
proper faciHties for curing hams, and do not see to 
it that such are at hand, an important point in success 
in tliis direction. A general cure which would make 
a good ham under proper Conditions would include as 
follows: To each loo lbs. of ham use seven and 
a half pounds Liverpool fine salt, one and one-half 
pounds granulated sugar and four ounces saltpeter. 
Weigh the meat and the ingredients in the above pro- 
portions, rub the meat thoroughly with this mixture 
and pack closely in a tierce. Fill the tierce with water 
and roll every seven days until cured, which in a tem- 
perature of 40 to 50 degrees would require about fifty 
days for a medium ham. Large hams take about ten 
days more for curing. When wanted for smoking, 
wash the hams in water or soak for twelve hours. Hang 
in the smokehouse and smoke slowly forty-eight 
hours and you will have a very good ham. While 
this is not the exact formula followed in big packing 
houses, any more than are other special recipes given 
here, it is a general ham cure that will make a first- 
class ham in every respect if proper attention is given it. 

Another method of pickling hams and shoulders, 
preparatory to smoking, includes the use of molasses. 
Though somewhat different from the above formula, 
the careful following of directions cannot fail to 
succeed admirably. To four quarts of fine salt and 
two ounces of pulverized saltpeter, add sufficient 

44 



CARE OF HAMS AND SHOULDERS. 45 

molasses to make a pasty mixture. The hams having 
hung in a dry, cool place for three or four days after 
cutting up, are to be covered all over with the mixture, 
more thickly on the flesh side, and laid skin side down 
for three or four days. In the meantime, make a 
pickle of the following proportions, the quantities 
here named being for loo lbs. of hams. Coarse salt, 
seven pounds; brown sugar, five pounds; saltpeter, 
two ounces; pearlash or potash, one-half ounce; soft 
water, four gallons. Heat gradually and as the skim 
rises remove it. Continue to do this as long as any 
skim rises, and when it ceases, allow the pickle to 
cool. When the hams have remained the proper time 
immersed in this mixture, cover the bottom of a clean, 
sweet barrel with salt about half an inch deep. Pack in 
the hams as closely as possible, cover them with the 
pickle, and place over them a follower with weights 
to keep them down. Small hams of fifteen pounds and 
less, also shoulders, should remain in the pickle for five 
weeks; larger ones will require six to eight weeks, 
according to size. Let them dry well before smoking. 

WBSTPHALIAN HAMS. 

This particular style has long been a prime favorite 
in certain markets of Europe, and to a small extent 
in this country also. Westphalia is a province of 
Germany in which there is a large industry in breeding 
swine for the express purpose of making the most 
tender meat with the least proportion of fat. Another 
reason for the peculiar and excellent qualities which 
have made Westphalian hams so famous, is the manner 
of feeding and growing for the hams, and finally the 
preserving, curing, and last of all, smoking the hams. 
The Ravensberg cross breed of swine is a favorite for 
this purpose. They are rather large animals, having 



46 HOME PORK MAKING. 

slender bodies, flat groins, straight snouts and large 
heads, with big, overhanging ears. The skin is white, 
with straight little bristles. 

A principal part of the swine food in Westphalia 
is potatoes; these are cooked and then mashed in the 
potato water. The pulp thus obtained is thoroughly 
mixed with wheat bran in a dry, raw state; little corn 
is used. In order to avoid overproduction of fat and 
at the same time further the growth of flesh of young 
pigs, some raw cut green feed, such. as cabbage, is 
used; young pigs are also fed sour milk freely. In 
pickling the hams they are first vigorously rubbed with 
saltpeter and then with salt. The hams are pressed 
in the pickling vat and entirely covered with cold 
brine, remaining in salt three to five weeks. After 
this they are taken out of the pickle and hung in a 
shady but dry and airy place to "air-dry." Before 
the pickled hams can be put in smoke they are exposed 
for several weeks to this drying in the open air. As 
long as the outside of the ham is not absolutely dry, 
appearing moist or sticky, it is kept away from smoke. 

Smoking is done in special large chambers, the 
hams being hung from the ceiling. In addition to 
the use of sawdust and wood shavings in making 
smoke, branches of juniper are often used, and occa- 
sionally beech and alder woods; oak and resinous 
woods are positively avoided. The smoking is carried 
on slowly. It is recommended to smoke for a few 
days cautiously; that is, to have, the smoke not too 
strong. Then expose the hams for a few days in the 
fresh air, repeating in this way until they are brown 
enough. The hams are actually in smoke two or 
three weeks, thus the whole process of smoking 
requires about six weeks. Hams are preserved after 
their smoking in a room which is shady, not accessible 
to the light, but at the same time dry, cool and airy. 



CARE OF HAMS AND SHOULDERS. 
THE PIG AND THE ORCHARD, 



47 



The two go together well. The pig stirs up the 
soil about the trees, letting in the sunshine and mois- 
ture to the roots and fertilizing them, while devouring 
many grubs that would otherwise prey upon the fruit. 
But many orchards cannot be fenced and many own- 







FIG. 17. FENCE FOR ORCHARD TREE. 

ers of fenced orchards, even, would like to have the 
pig confine his efforts around the trunk of each tree. 
To secure this have four fence panels made and yard 
the pig for a short time in succession about each 
tree, as suggested in the diagram, Fig. 17. 



CHAPTER X. 

DRY SALTING BACON AND SIDES. 

For hogs weighing not over 125 or 130 lbs. each, 
intended for dry curing, one bushel fine salt, two 
pounds brown sugar and one pound saltpeter will 
suiifice for each 800 lbs. pork before the meat is 
cut out; but if the meat is large and thick, or weighs 
from 150 to 200 lbs. per carcass, from a gallon to 
a peck more of salt and a little more of both the other 
articles should be taken. Neither the sugar nor the 
saltpeter is absolutely necessary for the preservation 
of the meat, and they are often omitted. But both, 
are preservatives; the sugar improves the flavor of 
the bacon, and the saltpeter gives it greater firmness 
and a finer color, if used sparingly. Bacon should not 
be so sweet as to suggest the "sugar-cure;" and salt- 
peter, used too freely, hardens the tissues of the meat, 
and renders it less palatable. The quantity of salt 
mentioned is enough for the first salting. A little more 

NEW SALT IS ADDED AT THE SECOND SALTING 

and used together with the old salt that has not been 
absorbed. If sugar and saltpeter are used, first 
apply about a teaspoonful of pulverized saltpeter on 
the flesh side of the hams and shoulders, and then 
taking a little sugar in the hand, apply it lightly to the 
flesh surface of all the pieces. A tablespoonful is 
enough for any one piece. 

If the meat at the time of salting is moist and 
yielding to the touch, rubbing the skin side with the 

48 



DRY SALTING BACON AND SIDES. 49 

gloved hand, or the "sow's ear, "as is sometimes insisted 
on, is unnecessary; the meat will take salt readily 
enough without this extra labor. But if the meat is 
rigid, and the weather very cold, or if the pieces are 
large and thick, rubbing the skin side to make it 
yielding and moist causes the salt to penetrate to the 
center of the meat and bone. On the flesh side it is 
only necessary to sprinkle the salt over all the surface. 
Care must be taken to get some salt into every depres- 
sion and into the hock end of all joints. An expe- 
rienced meat Salter goes over the pieces with great 
expedition. Taking a handful of the salt, he applies 
it dextrously by a gliding motion of the hand to all 
the surface, and does not forget the hock end of the 
bones where the feet have been cut off. Only dry salt 
is used in this method of curing. The meat is never 
put into brine or "pickle," nor is any water added to 
the salt to render it more moist. 

BEST DISTRIBUTION OF THE SALT. 

A rude platform or bench of planks is laid down, 
on which the meat is packed as it is salted. A boy hands 
the pieces to the packer, who lays down first a course 
of middlings and then sprinkles a little more salt on 
all the places that do not appear to have quite enough. 
Next comes a layer of shoulders and then another 
layer of middlings, until all these pieces have been laid. 
From time to time a little more salt is added, as 
appears to be necessary. The hams are reserved for 
the top layer, the object being to prevent them from 
becoming too salt. In a large bulk of meat the brine, 
as it settles down, lodges upon the lower pieces, and 
some of them get rather more than their quota of 
salt. Too much saltiness spoils the hams for first- 
class bacon. In fact, it spoils any meat to have it too 
salt, but it requires less to spoil the hams, because, as 



so HOME PORK MAKING. 

a rule, they are mostly lean meat. The jowls, heads 
and livers, on account of the quantity of blood about 
them, are put in a separate pile, after being salted. 
The chines and spareribs are but slightly salted and 
laid on top of the bulk of neat meat. The drippings 
of brine and blood from the meat are collected in 
buckets and sent to the compost heaps. If there are 
rats, they must be trapped or kept out in some way. 
Cats, also, should be excluded from the house. Close- 
fitting boxes, which some use to keep the rats from the 
meat, are not the best; the meat needs air. 

In ten days to three weeks, according to weather 
and size of the meat, break bulk and resalt, using the 
old salt again, with just a little new salt added. In 
four to six weeks more, or sooner, if need be, break 
up and wash the meat nicely, preparatory to smoking 
it. Some farmers do not wash the salt off, but the meat 
receives smoke better and looks nicer, if washed. 

CURING PORK FOR THE SOUTH. 

This requires a little different treatment. It is 
dry-salted and smoked. The sides, hams and shoulders 
are laid on a table and rubbed thoroughly with salt 
and saltpeter (one ounce to five pounds of salt), clear 
saltpeter being rubbed in around the ends of the bones. 
The pieces are laid up, with salt between, and allowed 
to lie. The rubbing is repeated at intervals of a week 
until the meat is thoroughly salted through, and it is 
then smoked. It must afterward be left in the smoke- 
house, canvased or buried in a box of ashes, to protect 
it from the flies. 



CHAPTER XL 

SMOKING AND SMOKEHOUSES. 



For best quality of bacon, the proper meat is of 
first importance. Withes or strings of basket wood, 
bear's grass, or coarse, stout twine, one in the hock end 
of each ham and shoulder, and two in the thick side 
of each middling, are fastened in the meat by which 
to suspend it for smoking. Before it is hung up the 
entire flesh surface of the hams and shoulders, and 
sometimes the middlings also, is sprinkled thickly 
with fine black pepper, using a large tin pepper box 
to apply it. Sometimes a mixture of about equal 
farts of black and red pepper helps very much to 
impart a good flavor to the meat. It was thought 
formerly that black pepper, applied to meat before 
smoking it, would keep the bacon bug (Dermestes) 
"skippers" from being troublesome. But it is now 
known that the skipper skips just as lively where 
the pepper is. The meat is hung upon sticks or on 
hooks overhead very close together, without actually 
touching, and is ready for smoking. 

THE SMOKEHOUSE. 

The meat house is of course one with an earth, 
brick, or cement floor, where the fire for the smoke 
is made in a depression in the center of the room, 
so as to be as far as possible from the walls. A 
few live coals are laid down, and a small fire is made 
of some dry stuff. As it gets well to burning, the 

51 



52 HOME PORK MAKING, 

fire is smothered with green hickory or oak wood, and 
a basket of green chips from the oak or hickory wood- 
pile is kept on hand and used as required to keep the 
fire smothered so as to produce a great smoke and but 
Httle blaze. If the chips are too dry they are kept wet 
with water. Care is taken not to allow the fire to get 
too large and hot, so as to endanger the meat hung 
nearest to it. Should the fire grow too strong, as it 
sometimes will, a little water is thrown on, a bucketful 
of which is kept always on hand. The fire requires 
constant care and nursing to keep up a good smoke 
and no blaze. Oak and hickory chips or wood impart 
the best color to meat. Some woods, as pine, ailanthus, 
mulberry and persimmon, are very objectionable, 
imparting a disagreeable flavor to the bacon. Corn 
cobs make a good smoke for meat, but they must be 
wet before laying them on the fire. Hardwood sawdust 
is sometimes advantageously used in making a fire for 
smoking meats. No blaze is formed, and if it burns too 
freely can be readily checked by sprinkling a little 
water upon it. This is a popular method in parts of 
Europe, and in that country damp wheat straw is also 
sometimes used to some extent. 

COMBINED SMOKEHOUSE AND OVEN. 

The oven, shown in Fig. i8, occupies the front 
and that part of the interior which is represented in our 
illustration by the dotted lines. The smokehouse occu- 
pies the rear, and extends over the oven. The advan- 
tages of this kind of building are the perfect dryness 
secured, which is of great importance in preserving 
the meat, and the economy in building the two 
together, as the smoke that escapes from the oven may 
be turned into the smokehouse. This latter feature, 
however, will not commend itself to many who prefer 



SMOKING AND SMOKEHOUSES. 



53 



the use of certain kinds of fuel in smoking which are 
not adapted to burning in a bake oven. 

Cloudy and damp days are the best for smoking 
meat. It seems to receive the smoke more freely in 
such weather, and there is also less danger of fire. The 
smoke need not be kept up constantly, unless one is 
in a hurry to sell the meat. Half a day at a time on 
several days a week, for two or three weeks, will give 




FIG. 18. COMBINATION SMOKEHOUSE AND OVEN. 



the bacon that bright gingerbread color which is gen- 
erally preferred. It should not be made too dark with 
smoke. It is a good plan, after the meat is smoked 
nearly enough, to smoke it occasionally for half a 
day at a time all through the spring until late in May. 
It is thought that smoke does good in keeping the 
Dermestes out of the house. The work of smoking may 
be finished up in a week, if one prefers, by keeping up 
the smoke all day and at night until bedtime. Some 
smoke more, others less, according to fancy as to color. 
No doubt, the more it is smoked, the better the bacon 



54 HOME PORK MAKING. 

will keep through the summer. But it need not, and, 
in fact, should not, be made black with smoke. 

It is necessary, before the smoking is quite com- 
pleted, to remove the meat that is in the center just 
over the fire to one side, and to put the pieces from the 
sides in the center. The meat directly over the smoke 
colors faster than that on the sides, although the house 
is kept full of smoke constantly. Some farmers do not 
care to risk the safety of their meat by having an open 
fire under it, and so set up an old stove, either in the 
room or on the outside, in which latter case a pipe 
lets the smoke into the house. A smoldering fire is 
then kept up with corn cobs or chips. But there is 
almost as much danger this way as the other. The 
stovepipe may become so hot as to set fire to the walls 
of the house where it enters, or a blaze may be carried 
within if there is too much fire in the stove. There is 
some risk either way, but with a properly built smoke- 
house, there is no great danger from the plan described. 

THE MEAT IS NOW CURED. ■ 

and, if these directions have been observed, the fanner 
has a supply of bacon as good as the world can show. 
Some may prefer a "shorter cut" from the slaughter 
pen to the baking pan, and with their pyroligenous 
acid may scout the old-fashioned smoke as heathenish, 
and get their bacon ready for eating in two hours after 
the salt has struck in. But they never can show such 
bacon by their method as we can by ours. There is 
but one wa)' to have this first-class bacon and ham, 
and that way is the one herein portrayed. 

TO MAKE A SMOKEHOUSE PIREPROOP 

as far as the stove ashes are concerned, is not neces- 
sarily an expensive job; all that is required is to lay 



SMOKING AND SMOKEHOUSES. 



55 



up a row of brick across one end, also two or three feet 
back upon each side, connecting the sides with a row 
across the building, making it at least two feet high. 
As those who have a smokehouse use it nearly every 
year, that part can also be made safe from fire by the 
little arch built at the point shown in the illustration, 
Fig. 19. The whole is laid up in mortar, and to add 
strength to the structure an iron rod or bar may be 
placed across the center of the bin and firmly imbedded 
in the mortar, two or three rows of brick from the top. 




PIG. 19. FIREPROOFING A SMOKEHOUSE. 



Of course, the rear of the arch is also bricked up. In 
most cases, less than 250 brick will be all that is 
required. 

A WELL ARRANGED SMOKEHOUSE. 

A simple but satisfactory smokehouse is shown in 
the illustration. Fig. 20, and can be constructed on the 
farm at small cost. It is so arranged as to give direct 
action of smoke upon the meat within, and yet free 
from the annoyance that comes from entering a smoke- 
filled room to replenish the fire. The house is square, 
and of a size dependent upon the material one may 
have yearly to cure by smoke. For ordinary use, a 



S6 HOME PORK MAKING. 

house ten feet square will be ample. There are an 
entrance door on one side and a small window near 
the top that can be opened from the outside to quickly 
free the inside from the smoke when desired. At the 
bottom of one side is a small door, from which extends 
a small track to the center of the room. Upon this 
slides a square piece of plank, moved by an iron rod 
with a hook on one end. On the plank is placed an 
old iron kettle. Fig. 21, with four or five inches of earth 
in the bottom, and upon this is the fire to be built. The 
kettle can be slid to the center of the room with an iron 
rod and can be drawn to the small door at any time to 





FIG. 20. FARM SMOKEHOUSE. FIG. 2L FIRE, KETTLE 
AND TRACK. 

replenish the fire without entering the smoky room or 
allowing the smoke to come out. The house has an 
earthen floor and a tight foundation of stone or brick. 
The walls should be of matched boarding and the roof 
shingled. The building is made more attractive in 
appearance if the latter is made slightly "dishing." 

SMOKING MEATS IN A SMALL WAT. 

A fairly good substitute for a smokehouse, where 
it is desired to improvise something for temporary use 
in smoking hams or other meat, may be found in a 
large cask or barrel, arranged as shown in the engrav- 
ing, Fig. 22. To make this efifective, a small pit should 



SMOKING AND SMOKEHOUSES. 57 

be dug, and a flat stone or a brick placed across it, 
upon which the edge of the cask will rest. Half of the 
pit is beneath the barrel and half of it outside. The 
head and bottom may be removed, or a hole can be cut 
in the bottom a little larger than the portion of the pit 
beneath the cask. The head or cover is removed, while 
the hams are hung upon cross sticks. These rest 
upon two cross bars, made to pass through holes bored 




FIG. 22. A BARREL, SMOKEHOUSE. 

in the sides of the cask, near the top. The head is 
then laid upon the cask and covered with sacks to con- 
fine the smoke. Some coals are put into the pit outside 
of the cask, and the fire is fed with damp corn cobs, 
hardwood chips, or fine brush. The pit is covered 
with a fiat stone, by which the fire may be regulated, 
and it is removed when necessary to add more fuel. 

ANOTHER BARREL SMOKEHOUSE. 

For those who have only the hams and other 
meats from one or two hogs to smoke, a practicable 
smokehouse, like that shown in Fig. 23, will serve the 



58 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



purpose fairly well. A large barrel or good-sized cask 
should be used, with both heads removed. A hole 
about a foot deep is dug to receive it, and then a trench 
of about the same depth and six or eight feet long, 
leading to the fireplace. In this trench can be laid old 
Stovepipe and the ground filled in around it. The 




FIG. 23. BARREL SMOKEHOUSE WITH FRENCH DRAFT. 



meat to be smoked is suspended in the barrel and the 
lid put on, but putting pieces under it, so there will be 
enough draft to draw the smoke through. By having 
the fire some distance from the meat, one gets the 
desired amount of smoke and avoids having the meat 
overheated. 



CHAPTER XII. 

KEEPING BACONS AND HAMS. 

The ideal meat house or smokehouse is a tall frame 
structure, twelve by fifteen or fifteen by eighteen feet, 
underpinned solidly with brick set a foot or more into 
the ground, or with a double set of sills, the bottom set 
being buried in the soil. This mode of underpinning 
is designed to prevent thieves from digging under the 
wall and into the house. Stout, inch-thick boards are 
used for the weatherboarding, and sometimes the 
studs are placed near enough together to prevent a 
person from getting through between them. The house 
is built tall to give more room for meat and to have it 
farther from the fire while it is being smoked. The 
weatherboarding and the roof should be tight to pre- 
vent too free escape of the smoke. No window, and 
but one door, is necessary. The floor should be of 
clay, packed firm, or else laid in cement or brick. 
Indeed, it would be better to have the entire walls built 
of brick, but this would add considerably to the cost 
of construction. 

THE ROOM SHOULD BE LARGE ENOUGH 

to admit of a platform on one or both sides, upon which 
to pack the pork when salted. There should be a salt 
barrel, a large wooden tray made of plank, in which to 
salt the meat, and a short, handy ladder for reaching the 
upper tier of joists. A large basket for holding chips, a 
tub for water when smoking meat, a large chopping 
block and a meat axe, for the convenience of the cook, 
are necessary articles for the meat house. Nothing else 

59 



60 HOME PORK MAKING. 

should be allowed to cumber the room to afford a har- 
bor for rats or to present additional material for a blaze, 
in case a spark from the fire should snap out to a dis- 
tance. The house should be kept neatly swept, and 
rats should not be allowed to make burrows under any- 
thing in the room. The floor of the meat house should 
always be of some hard material like cement or brick, 
or else clay pummeled very hard, so that there would 
be no hiding place for the pupae of the Dermestes 
(parent of the "skipper"). 

The skipper undergoes one or two moltings 
while in the meat, and at last drops from the bacon to 
the floor, where, if the earth is loose, it burrows into 
the ground and, remaining all winter, comes out a 
perfect beetle in spring. A hard, impervious floor will 
prevent it from doing this, and compel it to seek a nest- 
ing place elsewhere. The reason why country bacon 
is sometimes so badly infested with the skipper is that 
the house and floor afford or become an excellent 
incubator, as it were, for the Dermestes, and the bacon 
bugs become so numerous that all the meat gets 
infested with them. In case the floor of the smoke- 
house is soft and yielding, it ■ becomes necessary 
each winter, before the meat is packed to salt, to 
remove about two inches of the soil and put in fresh 
earth or clay in its place. Thus, many of the insects 
would be carried out, where they would be destroyed. 
The walls and roof of the room on the interior should 
also be swept annually to dislodge any pupae that 
might be hibernating in the cracks and crevices. With 
these precautions, there should not be many of the 
pests left within the building, though it is a hard matter 
when a house once gets badly infested to dislodge them 
entirely. There are so many hiding places about a 
plain shingle roof that it is next to impossible not to 
have some of these insects permanently lodged in the 



KEEPING BACON AND HAMS. 6 1 

meat house. But with a good, hard floor, frequent 
sweeping and the use of plenty of black pepper on the 
meat, the number of the Dermestes should be reduced 
to the minimum. 

BACON KEEPS NOWHERE SO WELL . 

as in the house where it is smoked, and if the bugs do 
not get too numerous it is decidedly better to allow it 
to remain hanging there. Bacon needs air and a cool, 
dry, dark room for keeping well in summer. The least 
degree of dampness is detrimental, causing the bacor. 
to mold. It has been noticed, however, that moldy 
bacon is seldom infested with the skipper. Hence some 
people, to keep away the skippers, hang their bacon 
in a cellar where there is dampness, preferring to have 
it moldy rather than "skippery." Some housekeepers 
preserve hams in close boxes or barrels, in a cqoI, dark 
room, and succeed well. Others pack in shelled oats 
or bran, or wrap in old newspapers and lay away on 
shelves or in boxes. Inclosing in cloth sacks and 
painting the cloth is also practiced. All these plans 
are more or less successful, but oblige the housekeeper 
to be constantly on the watch to prevent mice and ants 
from getting to the bacon. But if anyone should prefer 

TO EXCLUDE THE BUGS ENTIRELY 

from his meat the following contrivance is offered as a 
cheap and entirely satisfactory arrangement: After 
the meat is thoroughly smoked, hang all of it close 
together, or at least all the hams, in the center of the 
house, and inclose it on all sides with a light frame 
over which is stretched thin cotton cloth, taking care 
that there shall be no openings in the cloth or frame 
through which the bugs might crawl. There let it 
hang all summer. This contrivance will prevent the 



62 HOME PORK MAKING, 

bug from getting at the meat to deposit its eggs, and 
the thin, open fabric of the cloth will at the same time 
admit plenty of air. The bottom or one side of the 
frame should be fixed upon hinges, for convenience in 
getting at the bacon as wanted. As the bacon bug 
come& out in March, or April farther south, in Febru- 
ary it is necessary to get the meat smoked and inclosed 
under the canvas before the bug leaves its winter quar- 
ters. Hams may be thus kept in perfect condition as 
long as may be desirable, and will remain sweet and 
nice many months. 

BOX FOR STORING BACON. 

If the smokehouse is very dark and close, so that 
the flies or bugs will not be tempted to or can get in, all 
that is necessary is to have the meat hung on the pegs; 
but, if not, even when the meat is bagged, there is still 




FIG. 24. SECURE BOX FOR STORING BACON. 

some risk of worms. To provide a box that will be bug- 
proof, ratproof, and at the same time cool, as seen 
in the illustration, Fig. 24, make a frame one 
inch thick and two or three inches wide, 
with a close plank bottom; cover the whole box 
with wire cloth, such as is used for screens. Let 
the wire cloth be on the outside, so that' the meat 
will not touch it. The top may be of plank and fit per- 
fectly tight, so that no insect can creep under. Of 
course, the box may be of any size desired. It will be 
well to have the strips nailed quite closely together, 
say, about one and a half inches apart. When the meat 



KEEPING BACON AND HAMS. 63 

is put in, lay sticks between, so that the pieces will not 
touch. If the box is made carefully, it is bugproof and 
ratproof, affording ventilation at the same time, and 
so preventing molding. Meat should be kept in a dry 
and cool place. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

SIDELIGHTS ON PORK MAKING. 

The trade in country dressed hogs varies mate- 
rially from year to year. Since the big packing houses 
have become so prominent in the industry there is, of 
course, less done in country dressed hogs, yet a market 
is always found for considerable numbers. Thirty 
years ago Chicago received as many as 350,000 
dressed hogs in one year. With a growth of the pack- 
ing industry this business decreased, until 1892, when 
only 5000 were handled at Chicago, but since that date 
there has been a revival of interest, with as many as 
60,000 received in 1894 and an ever changing number 
since that date. Thirty years ago the number of hogs 
annually packed at Chicago was about 700,000. This 
business has increased since to as many as 8,000,000 
in a year, the industry in other packing centers being in 
much the same proportion. At all packing centers in 
the west there are slaughtered annually 20,000,000 to 
24,000,000 hogs. 

Compared with the enormous numbers fattened 
and marketed on the hoof, a very small proportion of 
the hogs turned off the farms each year are sold 
dressed. Yet with many farmers, particularly those 
who have only a small number to dispose of, it is 
always a question as to which is the better way to sell 
hogs, dressed or alive. No individual experience can 
be taken as a criterion, yet here is a record of what one 
Michigan farmer did in the way of experiment. He 
had two lots of hogs to sell. One litter of seven 

6a 



SIDE LIGHTS ON PORK MAKING. 



65 



weighed a total of 1605 lbs. alive, and dressed 1,335 
lbs., which was three pounds over a one-sixth shrink- 
age; one litter of five weighed 1540 lbs. and dressed 
.1320 lbs., losing exactly one-seventh, they being very 
fat. The sow weighed 517 lbs. and dressed 425, dress- 
ing away about 18 lbs. to the 100 lbs. He was offered 
$3.80 per 100 lbs. live weight, for all the hogs, and $3 
for the sow. He finally sold the seven hogs, dressed, at 
$5 per 100 lbs., the second lot of five at $4.75, and the 
sow at $4.25. He decided that by dressing the hogs 
before selling, he gained about $12.50, aside from lard 
and trimmings. The experience here noted would not 
necessarily hold good anywhere and any time. Methods 
employed in packing hogs have been brought down to 
such a fine point, however, with practically every por- 
tion utilized, that unless a farmer has a well-defined 
idea where he can advantageously sell his dressed pork, 
it would not pay, as a general thing, to butcher any 
considerable number of hogs, with a view of thus dis- 
posing of them. 

AN EASILY FILLED PIG TROUGH. 

To get swill into a pig trough is no easy matter if 
the hogs cannot be kept out until it is filled. The ar- 




■ ..i»H5»>i"' 
PIG. 25. PIG TROUGH ATTACHMENT. 



rangement shown in Fig. 25 will be found of much 
value and a great convenience. Before pouring it? 
the swill, the front end of the pen, in the form of a 
swinging door suspended from the top, J? pJ^spid in the 



66 HOME PORK MAKING. 

position shown at b. The trough is filled and the door 
allowed to assume the position shown at a. 

AN AID IN RINGING HOGS. 

A convenient trap for holding a hog while a ring 
is placed in its nose consists of a trunk or a box 
without ends, 6 feet long, 30 inches high and 18 inches 
wide, inside measure. This trunk has a strong frame 




FIG. 26. TRAP FOR HOLDING HOG. 

at one end, to which the boards are nailed. The uppef 
and lower slats are double, and between them a strong 
lever has free play. To accommodate large or small 
pigs, two pins are set in the lower slat, against which 
the lever can bear. The pins do not go through the 
lever. This trunk is placed in the door of the pen, and 
two men are required to hold it and ring the hogs. 
When a hog enters and tries to go through, one man 
shoves the lever up, catching him just back of the head, 
and holds him there. The second man then rings him, 
and he is freed. Fig. 26 exhibits the construction of 
the trap, in the use of which one can hold the largest 
hog with ease. 

AVERAGE WEIGHTS OP LIVE HOGS. 

The average weight of all hogs received at Chicago 
in 1898 was 234 lbs.; in 1896, 246 lbs. The average 
weight of all hogs received at Chicago in 1895 was 230 
lbs.; in 1894, 233 lbs.; in 1893, 240 lbs. 



SIDE LIGHTS ON PORK MAKING. dy 

EXTREMES IN MARKET PRICE OF PORK AND LARD. 

The highest price of mess pork at Chicago during 
the last forty years, according to the Daily Trade Bul- 
letin, was $44 per bbl. in 1864, and the lowest price 
$5.50 per bbl., paid in 1896. The highest price of lard 
was naturally also in war times, 30c per lb. in 1865; 
the lowest price a shade more than 3c, in 1896. 

NET TO GROSS. 

Good to prime hogs, when cut up into pork, hams, 
shoulders and lard, will dress_^ out 73 to 75 per cent, 
according to the testimony of the large packing con- 
cerns. That is, for every 100 lbs. live weight, it is 
fair to estimate 73 to 75 lbs. of product of the classes 
named. If cut into ribs instead of pork, prime hogs 
would net 70 to 72 per cent, while those which are not 
prime run as low as 65 per cent. For comparative 
purposes, it may be well to note here that good farm- 
fed cattle will dress 54 to 56 per cent of their live 
weight in beef, the remainder being hide, fat, offal, etc., 
and sheep will dress 48 to 54 per cent, 50 per cent being 
a fair average. 

RELATIVE WEIGHTS OP PORTIONS OP CARCASS. 

To determine the relation of the dififerent parts of 
the hog as usually cut, to the whole dressed weight, 
the Alabama experiment station reports the following 
results. The test was made with a number of light 
hogs having an average dressed weight of 137 lbs. 
The average weight of head was 12.2 lbs.; backbone, 
6.8 lbs.; the two hams, 25.4 lbs.; the two shoulders, 33.1 
lbs.; leaf lard, 8.3 lbs.; ribs, 5.5 lbs.; the two "middling" 
sides, 35 lbs.; tender loin, i.i lbs.; feet, 3.6 lbs. 

GATES FOR HANDLING HOGS. 

The device shown in the accompanying illustra- 
tions for handling Ijogs when they are to be rung or 



68 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



for other purposes, is very useful on the ordinary farm. 
Fig. 27 represents a chute and gate which will shut 
behind and before the hog and hold him in position. 
There is just room enough for him to stick his nose 







FIG. 27. HOG CHUTE. 



out, and while in this position rings can be inserted. 
The sides of the chute must be much closer together 
than shown in the engraving, so that the hog cannot 
turn about. In fact, the width should be just sufiScient 




iJIG. 28. DEVICE FOR OPENING GATE. 

to allow the hog to pass through. Fig. 28 represents 
the side view of another gate and pen, so arranged 
that the. door can be opened and shut without getting 
into the pen. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

PACKING HOUSE CUTS OF PORK. 

While considering primarily the proper curing of 
pork for use on the farm and for home manufacture by 




FIG. 29. MESS PORK. 



farmers, it will not be out of the way to become 
acquainted with some of the leading cuts of meat as 

69 



70 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



made by the big pork packers at Chicago and else- 
where. In the speculative markets, a large business is 
done in "mess pork," "short ribs" and lard. These 
are known as the speculative commodities in pork 
product. The prices established, controlled largely by 
the amount offered and the character of the demand, 
regulate to a considerable extent the market for other 
cuts of pork, such as long clear middles, hams and 
shoulders. Our illustrations of some of the leading 
cuts of meats, furnished us through the courtesy of 




SHORT RIBS. 




FIG. 



SHOULDER. 



Hately Bros., prominent pbrk packers in Chicago, 
together with accompanying descriptions, give a very 
good idea of the shape pork product takes as handled 
in the big markets of the world. 



MESS PORK. 



This standard cut, Fig. 29, is made from heavy fat 
hogs. The hog is first split down the back, the back- 



PACKING HOUSE CUTS OF PORK. 71 

bone being left on one side. Ham and shoulders taken 
off, the sides are then cut in uniform strips of four or 
five pieces. Equal portions of both sides are then 
packed in barrels, 200 lbs. net, the pieces numbering 
not more than sixteen nor less than nine. Barrels to 
be filled with a pickle made with 40 lbs. .of salt to 
each barrel. 

SHORT RIBS. 

These are made from the sides, with the ham and 
shoulder taken off and backbone removed ; haunchbone 
and breastbone sawed or cut down smooth and level 
with the face of the side. The pieces (Fig. 30) are 
made to average 32 lbs. and over. 

SHOULDERS. 

Regular shoulders (Fig. 31), or commonly called 
dry salted shoulders, are cut off the sides between first 
and second ribs, so as not to expose forearm joint. 
Shank cut off at knee joint. Neck bone taken out and 
neck trimmed smooth. Shoulders butted off square at 
top. Made to average 12 to 14, 14 to 16. and 16 to 18 
lbs. On the wholesale markets can usually be bought 
at about the price per pound of live hogs. 

HAMS. 

American cut hams are cut short inside the haunch- 
bone, are well rounded at butt and all fat trimmed off 
the face of the hams to make as lean as possible. See 
Fig. 32. Cut off above the hock joint. Hams are 
made to average 10 to 12, 12 to 14, 14 to 16, 16 to 18, 
and 18 to 20 lbs. 

PICNIC HAMS. 

This is a contradictory term, for the picnic ham Is 
in truth a shoulder. Picnic hams (Fig. 33) are made 



7^ 



HOME PORK MAKING. 



, from shoulders cut off sides between second and third 
ribs. Shank bone cut off one inch above knee joint, 
and neck bone taken out. Butt taken off through the 
middle of the blade and nicely rounded to imitate a 
ham. Made to average 5 to 6, 6 to 8, 8 to 10, and 10 
to 14 lbs. 

WILTSHIBE CUT BACON. 

This cut (Fig. 34) is from hogs weighing about 
150 lbs. Formerly the hair was removed by singeing, 





FIG. 32. AMERICAN CUT HAM. FIG. 33. PICNIC HAM. 

but this method is not so much employed now. The 
Wiltshire bacon is consumed almost entirely in Lon- 
don, Bristol and the south of England generally. 



STANDARD LARD. 



The following is the rule in force at Chicago for 
the manufacture of standard prime steam lard: Stand- 



PACKING HOUSE CUTS OF PORK. 73 

ard prime steam lard shall be solely the product of the 
trimmings and other fat parts of hogs, rendered in 
tanks by the direct application of steam and without 
subsequent change in grain or character by the use of 
agitators or other machinery, except as such change 
may unavoidably come from transportation. It must 
have proper color, flavor and soundness for keeping, 
andno material which has been salted must be included. 
The name and location of the renderer and the grade 
of the lard shall be plainly branded on each package at 
the time of packing. 

NEUTRAL LARD. 

This is made at the big packing houses from pure 
leaf lard, which after being thoroughly chilled is ren- 
dered in open tanks at a temperature of about 120 
degrees. The portion rendered at this temperature is 
run into packages and allowed to cool before clos- 
ing tightly. 

Lard stearine is made from the fat of hogs which 
is rendered and then pressed and the oil extracted. 
The oil is used for lubricating purposes, and the 
stearine by lard refiners in order to harden the lard, 
especially in warm weather. 



CHAPTER XV. 

MAGNITUDE OF THE SWINE INDUSTRY. 

Were it not for the foreign demand for our pork 
and pork product there would be much less profit in 
fattening hogs for market than there is, irrespective of 
the price of corn and othei- feeds. England is our best 
customer, taking by far the larger part of our entire 
exports of all lard, cured meats and other hog product, 
but there is an encouraging trade with other foreign 
countries. The authorities at Washington are making 
every efifort to enlarge this foreign outlet. Certain 
European countries, notably France and Germany, 
place irksome embargoes on American pork product. 
Ostensibly, these foreign governments claim the qual- 
ity and healthfulness of some of the American pork are 
in question, but in reality back of all this is the demand 
from the German and French farmers that the compe- 
tition afforded by American pork must be kept down. 
It is believed that eventually all such restrictions will 
be swept away, through international agreement, and 
that thus our markets may be further extended, greatly 
benefiting the American farmer. Our exports of hog 
product, including pork, bacon, hams and lard, repre- 
sent a value annually of about $100,000,000. 

THE WORLD'S SUPPLY OP BACON 

is derived chiefly from the United States, which enjoys 
an enormous trade with foreign consuming countries, 
notably England and continental Europe. Irish bacon is 
received with much favor in the English markets, 
while Wiltshire and other parts of England also fur- 
nish large quantities, specially cured, which are great 

74 



MAGNITUDE OF THE SWINE INDUSTRY. /g 




FI<?. m. WILTSHIRE CUT BAQQIf. 



y() HOME PORK MAKING. 

favorites among consumers. Some idea of the mag- 
nitude of the foreign trade of the United States, so far 
as hog product is concerned, may be formed by a 
glance at the official figures showing our exports in a 
single year. During the twelve months ended June 
30, 1899, the United States exported 563,000,000 
lbs. bacon, 226,000,000 lbs. ham, 137,000,000 lbs. pickled 
pork and 711,000,000 lbs. lard, a total of 1,637 rnillion 
pounds pork product. On the supposition that live 
hogs dress out, roughly speaking, 70 per cent product, 
this suggests the enormous quantity of 2,340 million 
pounds of live hogs taken for the foreign trade in one 
year. Estimating the average weight at 240 lbs., this 
means nearly 10,000,000 hogs sent to American slaugh- 
terhouses in the course of one year to supply our foreign 
trade with pork product. The United Kingdom is by 
far our best customer, although we export liberal 
quantities to Belgium, Holland, Germany, France, 
Canada, Brazil, Central America and the West Indies. 
Total value of our 1899 exports of pork product was 
$116,000,000. 

The enormous business of the big packing houses, 
located chiefly in the west, with a few in the east, can 
scarcely be comprehended in its extent. Chicago con- 
tinues to hold the prestige of the largest packing center 
in the world, but other western cities are crowding it. 
In 1 89 1 Chicago received 8,600,000 hogs, the largest on 
record, most of which were packed in that city, and 
the product shipped all over the world. In recent 
years the Chicago receipts have averaged smaller, but 
the proportion going to the packing concerns remains 
about the same. It is estimated that the hogs received 
at that city in 1898 had a value of $84,000,000. 

CO-OPBRATIVB CURING HOUSES IN DENMARK. 

About half the pork exported to England from 
Denmark is cured by the co-operative curing houses, 



MAGNITUDE OF THE SWINE INDUSTRY. "Jj 

established first in 1888 and since that date greatly 
increased in number. Enormous quantities of cheap 
Black Sea barley have been brought into Denmark the 
last few years, used principally for fodder. The prin- 
cipal advantage of the co-operative system, doing away 
with the middleman, applies to these establishments. 
Farmers who raise hogs in a given district of say ten to 
twenty miles' circumference, unite and furnish the 
money necessary for the construction and operation of 
the co-operative curing establishment. The farmers 
bind themselves to deliver all hogs that they raise to 
the curing house, and severe fines are collected when 
animals are sold elsewhere. At every curing house 
there is a shop for the sale of sausage, fat, etc., these as 
a rule paying well and forming an important part of 
the profits in this co-operation. 

HOG PRICES AT CHICAGO, PER 100 POUNDS. 

Heavy packing, Mixed packing, Light bacon. 

Tear. 260 to 450 lbs. 200 to 250 lbs. 150 to 200 lbs. 

1899 $3.10@4.75 $3.50@5.00 $3.75@5.00 

1898 3.25@4.80 3.30@4.75 3.00@4.65 

1897 3.00@4.50 3.20@4.60 3.20iS/4.65 

1896 2.40@4.45 2.75@4.45 2.80@4.45 

1895 3.25(g)5.45 3.25@5.55 3.25@5.70 

1894 3.90@6.75 3.90@6.65 3.50@6.45 

1893 3.80@8.75 4.25@8.65 4.40@8.50 

1892 3.70@7.00 3.65@6.70 3,60@6.85 

1891 3.25@5.70 3.25@5.75 3.15@5.95 

TOTAL, PACKING AND MARKETING OP HOGS. 
[Year Ended March 1— Cincinnati Price Current.] 

Receipts, 

Western Eastern N. T., Phil. 

Packing. aeklng. and Balto. Total. 

1898-99 23,651,000 3,162,000 2,978,000 29,791,000 

1897-98 20,201,000 3,072,000 2,861,000 26,134,000 

1896-97 16,929,000 2,791,000 2,950,000 22,670,000 

3895-96 15,010,000 2,603,000 2,867,000 20;480,000 

1894-95 16,003,000 3,099,000 2,517,000 21,619,000 

1893-94 ..- 11,605,000 2,701,000 2,483,000 16,789,000 

1892-93 12,390,000 3,016,000 2,790,000 18,196,000 

1892 14,457,000 2.771,000 3,684,000 20,912,000 

1891 17,713,000 2,540,000 3,713,000 23,966,000 



78 



HOME PORK MAKING. 






eq t- Tti OS Tt* 



Ss (-a f^ nn ira I Pi-. 






1-t eo*Ht-oo 

t- t-egom 






I t- oicgjoeo 






o ■<*< Its ei3 in 
00 U3 cx}co oa 



01 o 

H- 
O ? 

S s 

Jo! 

02 4(.'-' 

8'- 






(M ■<*< t- tD GO 



CO i'- ?9 iJ^ t^- 
31 lO ■<*< ro i>- 

B5 O Sa-^C- 



S-'IH IflCTrH 



It- (DM M5D OS 



cq cai-it-iH 












t-Ot- 00 

t-rHCClH 



-"^ 53 - 



_5 ^U3 iH W 



r-t eo in O ■* 
oo CQ in o N 

O oo N U3(M 









OS oot-ffioir-os CMOS'* '00(0 2 t-t- 



c» ^^co ^ oi oa 



^o »ra IXM t- 00 

o cp CD coo eg 
' 1-1 rH WIOtH 



t CO eo<=)eoeo OS 

tH «oo uato in 

CO t-;^"^cqo_cq 

' N iHiHira'rH 



cq inin^o 00 

o ■* CO ^^rf* t- 
oo oo-^oscoeq 



It- I>0-I>00 •CD'^l'ITHb-O 

CO p;-«*coco «> rH 



t- CO ccecc^ 



■i* OS 00 eo rH 00 1- 
r-i t- m OS M< N in 
KcqcOrHrH 



■ OOOi 



rn ^ 1^ ^ iH lo t— 

c-1 ao^'^^*^^ 

P^ C! ■-*»Co'"i-rrH 

1— I "^ 



It- meoo o 
■ ■* t- in m (M 

OS oo C4t-CO 



C- "rHlft • 
N -00 D- • 

oo coc- 



CO POSrHS^O 

OS t-M (M OS m 
T-t m"* cooocq 






CO inoc-o^ooin 



rH OS CQ rH 



■ com 
moo 



*H 00 c^cq IM ' in i-\ 












©op 
^p:iw 



eg 
CO n 






■2 H 



OlOO '(M 

CO CO 'O 

eoin -^ 



Vila's 



o £ c 
t^ eg 



: o 

• ■o 
: c 

• u 
: Hi 



MAGNITUDE OP THE SWINE INDUSTRY. 79 

CRATE FOR MOVING SWINE OR OTHER ANIMALS. 

It is often desirable to move a small animal from 
one building to another, or from one pasture enclosure 
to another. The illustration, Fig. 35, shows a crate on 
wheels, with handles permitting it to be used as a 




FIG. 35. HANDY MOVABLE CRATE. 



wheelbarrow. Into this the pig can be driven, the door 
closed and the crate wheeled away. It will also be 
found a very useful contrivance in bringing in calves 
that have been dropped by their dams in the pasture. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

DISCOVERING THE MERITS OF ROAST PIG. 
By Charles Lamb. 

The art of roasting, or rather broiling (which I 
take to be the elder brother) was accidentally discov- 
ered in the manner following. The swineherd, Ho-ti, 
having gone out into the woods one morning, as his 
manner was, to collect mast for his hogs, left his cot- 
tage in the care of his eldest son. Bo-bo, a great, lub- 
berly boy, who, being fond of playing with fire, as 
younkers of his age commonly are, let some sparks 
escape into a bundle of straw, which, kindling quickly, 
spread the conflagration over every part of their poor 
mansion, till it was reduced to ashes. Together with 
the cottage (a sorry, antediluvian makeshift of a build- 
ing, you may think it), what was of much more imporr 
tance, a fine litter of new-farrowed pigs, no less than 
nine in number, perished. China pigs have been 
esteemed a luxury all over the east, from the remotest 
periods that we read of. Bo-bo was in the utmost 
consternation, as you may think, not so much for the 
sake of the tenement, which his father and he could 
easily build up again with a few dry branches, and the 
labor of an hour or two, at any time, as for the loss of 
the pigs. 

While he was thinking what he should say to his 
father, and wringing his hands over the smoking rem- 
nants of one of those untimely sufferers, an odor 
assailed his nostrils, unlike any scent which he had 
before experienced. What could it proceed from? — 
not from the burnt cottage — he had smelt that smell 

80 



DISCOVERING THE MERITS OF ROAST PIG. 8l 

before — indeed, this was by no means the first accident 
of the kind which had occurred through the negUgence 
of this unlucky firebrand. Much less did it resemble 
that of any known herb, weed or flower. A premon- 
itory moistening at the same time overflowed his nether 
lip. He knew not what to think. He next stooped 
down to feel the pig, if there were any signs of life in it. 
He burnt his fingers, and to cool them he apphed them 
in his booby fashion to his mouth. Some of the crumbs 
of the scorched skin had come away with his fingers, 
and for the first time in his life (in the world's life, 
indeed, for before him no man had known it), he 
tasted — crackling ! 

Again he felt and fumbled at the pig. It did not 
burn him so much now, still he licked his fingers from 
a sort of habit. The truth at length broke into his slow 
understanding, that it was the pig that smelt so, and 
the pig that tasted so delicious, and, surrendering him- 
self up to the new-born pleasure, he fell to tearing up 
whole handfuls of the scorched skin with the flesh next 
it, and was cramming it down his throat in his beastly 
fashion, when his sire entered amid the smoking raft- 
ers, armed with retributory cudgel, and, finding how 
affairs stood, began to rain blows upon the young 
rogue's shoulders, as thick as hailstones, which Bo-bo 
heeded not any more than if they had been flies. The 
tickling pleasure, which he experienced in his lower 
regions, had rendered him quite callous to any incon- 
veniences that he might feel in those remote quarters. 
His father might lay on, but he could not beat him 
from his pig till he had made an end of it, when, 
becoming a little more sensible of his situation, some- 
thing like the following dialogue ensued : 

"You graceless whelp, what have you got there 
devouring? Is it not enough that you have burnt me 
down three houses with your dog's tricks, and be 



82 HOME PORK MAKING. 

hanged to you ! but you must be eating fife, and I know 
not what — what have you got there, I say?" 

"O, father, the pig, the pig! do come and taste 
how nice the burnt pig eats." 

The ears of Ho-ti tingled with horror. He cursed 
his son, and he cursed himself that ever he should beget 
a son that should eat burnt pig. 

Bo-bo, whose scent was wonderfully sharpened 
since morning, soon raked out another pig, and fairly 
rending it asunder, thrust the lesser half by main force 
into the fists of Ho-ti, still shouting out, "Eat, eat, eat 
the burnt pig, father, only taste — O Lord!" with such- 
like barbarous ejaculations, cramming all the while as 
if he would choke. 

Ho-ti trembled in every joint while he grasped the 
abominable thing, wavering whether he should not put 
his son to death for an unnatural young monster, when 
the crackling scorched his fingers, as it had done his 
son's, and applying the same remedy to them, he in his 
turn tasted some of its flavor, which, make what sour 
mouths he would for a pretence, proved not altogether 
displeasing to him. In conclusion, both father and son 
fairly sat down to the mess, and never left off tiU they 
had dispatched all that remained of the litter. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 

FIRST PRIZE WINNERS IN THE AMERICAN AGRICUL- 
TURIST CONTEST FOR BEST RECIPES .FOR COOKING 
AND SERVING PORK. 

PORK PIE. 

Unless you have a brick oven do not attempt this 
dish, as it requires a long and even baking, which no 
stove oven can give. Make a good pie crust and line 
a large pan, one holding about 6 quarts; in the bot- 
tom put a layer of thin slices of onions, then a layer of 
lean salt pork, which has been previously browned in 
the frying pan, next place a layer of peeled apples, which 
sprinkle with a little brown sugar, using ^ lb. sugar to 3 
lbs. apples; then begin with onions, which sprinkle 
with pepper, pork and apples again, and so on until the 
dish is full. Wet the edges of the crust, put on the top 
crust, well perforated, and bake at least four hours, 
longer if possible. These pies are eaten hot or cold 
and are a great favorite with the English people. Pota- 
toes may be used in place of apples, but they do not 
give the meat so fine a flavor. 

PORK POTPIB. 

Three pounds pork (if salt pork is used, freshen it 
well), cut into inch cubes. Fry brown, add a large 
onion sliced, and a teaspoon each of chopped sage, 
thyme and parsley. Cover with 5 pints of water and 
boil for two hours, add a large pepper cut small or a 
pinch of cayenne, and a tablespoon of salt if fresh pork 
has been used. Add also 3 pints vegetables, carrots. 



84 HOME PORK MAKING. 

turnips and parsnips cut small, boil half an hour longer, 
when add a pint of potatoes cut into small pieces, and 
some dumplings. Cover closely, boil twenty minutes, 
when pour out into a large platter and serve. The 
dumplings are made of i pint of flour, i teaspoon salt, 
and I teaspoon baking powder, sifted together. Add 
2 eggs, well beaten and i cup of milk. Mix out all the 
lumps and drop by spoonfuls into the stew. Serve this 
potpie with a salad of dandelion leaves, dressed with 
olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. 

PORK GUMBO. 

Cut into small dice 2 lbs. lean pork. (In these 
recipes where the pork is stewed or baked in tomatoes 
or water, salt pork may be used, provided it is well 
freshened.) Fry the pork a pale brown, add 2 sliced 
onions, and when these are brown add 3 bell peppers 
sliced, and 2 quarts peeled tomatoes, with 2 teaspoons 
salt. Let boil gently, stirring frequently, for ij hours. 
Peel and cut small i pint of young tender okra pods, 
and add. Cover again and boil half an hour longer 
Cook in a lined saucepan, as tin will discolor the okra. 
With this serve a large dish of rice or hominy. Corn 
may be used in place of okra if the latter is disliked. 
The corn should be cut from the cobs and added half 
an hour before dinner time. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Boil a piece of lean pork (about 5 lbs. in weight) 
in 3 quarts water, until the meat is tender. The next 
day take out the pork, and remove the grease risen on 
the liquor from the pork during cooking. "To 3 pints 
of the liquor add i pint of milk and ij pints lima beans. 
Let them boil until tender — about one hour — ^wlien 
add i| pints corn cut from the cob. Let the whole 
cook for ten minutes, add a teaspoon of salt if neces- 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 85 

sary, half a teaspoon of pepper, and drop in the pork 
to heat. When hot, pour into a tureen and serve. 

PORK PILLAU. 

Take a piece of pork (about 4 lbs.) and 2 lbs. 
bacon. Wash and put to boil in plenty of water, to 
which add a pepper pod, a few leaves of sage and a few 
stalks of celery. One hour before dinner, dip out and 
strain 2 quarts of the liquor in which the pork is boil- 
ing, add to it a pint of tomatoes peeled, a small onion 
cut fine, and salt if necessary; boil half an hour, when 
add I pint of rice well washed. When it comes to a 
boil draw to the back of stove and steam until the rice 
is cooked and the liquor absorbed. The pork must 
boil three or four hours. Have it ready to serve with 
the rice. This makes a good dinner, with a little green 
salad, bread and butter and a good apple pudding. 

PORK ROLL,. 

Chop fine (a meat chopper will do the work well 
and quickly) 3 lbs. raw lean pork and^ lb. fat salt pork. 
Soak a pint of white bread crumbs in cold water. When 
soft squeeze very dry, add to the chopped meat with a 
large onion chopped fine, i tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, ^ teaspoon each of chopped sage and thyme, and 
^ teaspoon black pepper. Mix together thoroughly 
and form into a roll, pressing it closely and compactly 
together. Have ready about a tablespoon of fat in a 
frying pan, dredge the roll thickly with flour and brown 
it in the fat, turning it until nicely browned on all sides. 
Then place it in a baking pan, and bake in a hot oven 
for one hour. Baste it every ten minutes with water. 
Do not turn or disturb the meat after it has been put 
into the oven. Half an hour before dinner add 12 or 
14 small carrots that have been parboiled in salted 



86 HOME PORK MAKING. 

boiling water for fifteen minutes. When done, place 
the roll on a platter, surround it with plain boiled 
macaroni, dot with the carrots and pour over all a 
nicely seasoned tomato sauce. 

PEPPER POT. 

Cut 3 lbs. rather lean pork into 2-inch cubes, fry 
until brown, place in a 3-quart stone pot (a bean jar 
is excellent for this purpose) having a close-fitting lid; 
add 2 large onions sliced, 6 large green peppers (the 
bell peppers are the best, being fine in flavor and mild), 
a tablespoon of salt (if fresh pork was used), and 3 large 
tomatoes peeled and cut small. Fill the pot with 
water and place in the oven or on the back of the stove 
and allow to simmer five or six hours, or even longer. 
The longer it is cooked the better it will be. Persons 
who ordinarily cannot eat pork will find this dish will 
do them no harm. The sauce will be rich and nicely 
flavored, and the meat tender and toothsome. Serve 
with it plenty of boiled rice or potatoes. 

PORK CROQUETTES (IN CABBAGE LEAVES). 

To I lb. lean pork chopped fine add i teaspoon 
salt, ^ teaspoon each of pepper, chopped sage and 
thyme, i teaspoon chopped parsley and a large onion 
also chopped. Mix well and stir in 2-3 cup (half-pint 
cup) of well-washed raw rice. Wash a large cabbage, 
having removed all the defective outer leaves. Plunge 
it whole into a large pot of boiling salted water and 
boil for five minutes, remove and drain. This will 
render the leaves pliable. Let cool a little, when pull 
the leaves apart, and wrap in each leaf a tablespoon of 
the pork and rice. Wrap it up securely and neatly as 
if tying up a parcel and secure with wooden toothpicks 
or twine. When all are done, lay in a baking dish 
and cover with a quart of tomatoes peeled and cvit fin^, 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 87 

mixed with half a pint of water, and a teaspoon of salt. 
Bake one hour in a hot oven, turning the croquettes 
occasionally. If the sauce becomes too thick, dilute 
with a little hot water. When done, dish, pour over 
the sauce and serve with potatoes or hominy. These 
are very good indeed. If desired the croquettes may 
be steamed over hot water in a steamer for three hours, 
or plunged directly into a kettle of boiling water and 
boiled for one hour. They are not so delicate 
as when baked. 

PORK WITH PEA PUDDING (ENGLISH STYLE). 

Boil the pork as directed above, and do not omit 
the vegetables, as they flavor the meat and the pud- 
ding. Use the yellow split peas and soak a pint in 
cold water over night. Drain and tie them loosely in 
a pudding bag and boil with the pork for three hours. 
An hour before dinner remove and press through a 
colander, add a teaspoon salt, half a teaspoon pepper 
and 3 eggs well beaten. Chop enough parsley to 
make a teaspoonful, add to the peas with a little grated 
nutmeg. Beat up well, sift in half a pint of flour and 
pour into a pudding bag. The same bag used before 
will do if well washed. Tie it up tightly, drop into the 
pork water again and boil another hour. Remove, let 
drain in the colander a few minutes, when turn out 
onto a dish. Serve with the pork, and any preferred 
sauce; mint sauce is good to serve with pork, and a 
tomato sauce is always good. In fact, it is a natural 
hygienic instinct which ordains a tart fruit or vegetable 
to be eaten with pork. The Germans, who are noted 
for their freedom from skin diseases, add sour fruit 
sauces to inordinately fat meats. 

POBK WITH SAUERKRAUT (GERMAN STYLE). 

Boil a leg of pork for three or foun hours, wash 2 
quarts sauerkraut, put half of it into an iron pot, lay 



88 HOME PORK MAKING. 

on it the pork drained from the water in which it was 
cooking and cover with the remainder of sauerkraut, 
add I quart water in which the pork was cooking, 
cover closely and simmer gently for one hour. 



PORK CHOWDER. 

Have ready a quart of potatoes sliced, 2 large 
onions sliced, and i lb. lean salt pork. Cut the pork 
into thin slices and fry until cooked, drain off all but i 
tablespoon fat and fry the onions a pale brown. Then 
put the ingredients in layers in a saucepan, first the 
pork, then onions, potatoes and so on until used, add- 
ing to each layer a little pepper. Add a pint of water, 
cover closely and simmer fifteen minutes, then add a 
pint of rich milk, and cover the top with half a pound 
of small round crackers. Cover again and when the 
crackers are soft, serve in soup plates. If you live 
where clams are plentiful, add a quart of cleaved 
clams when the potatoes are almost done and cook 
ten minutes. 

SEA PIE. 

Make a crust of i quart flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, i teaspoon salt, mix well, rub in a tablespoon 
of fat — ^pork fat melted or lard — and mix into a 
smooth paste with a pint of water. Line a deep pud- 
ding dish with this, put in a layer of onions, then 
potatoes sliced, then a thin layer of pork in slices, more 
onions, etc., until the dish is full. Wet the edges, put 
on a top crust. Tie a floured cloth over the top and 
drop into a pot of boiling water. Let the water come 
up two-thirds on the dish, and keep the water boiling 
for four hours." Invert on a dish, remove the mold and 
serve hot. 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 89 

JPor Fresh Pork Only. 

CORN AND PORK SCALLOP. 

Cut about 2 lbs. young pork into neat chops and 
reject all fat and bone. Fry them until well cooked 
and of a pale brown, dust with salt and pepper. Cut 
some green corn from the cob. Take a 2-quart dish, 
put a layer of corn in the bottom, then a layer of pork, 
and so on until the dish is full, add i pint of water, 
cover and bake for one hour. Remove the cover fifteen 
minutes before serving, so the top may be nicely 
browned. Serve with potatoes and a lettuce salad. 
Onions and pork may be cooked in the same manner. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF PORK. 

Take a shoulder of pork and bone it. Cut out the 
shoulder blade, and then the leg bone. After the cut 
made to extract the shoulder blade, the flesh has to be 
turned over the bone as it is cut, like a glove-finger on 
the hand; if any accidental cut is made through the 
flesh it must be sewed up, as it would permit the 
stuffing to escape. For the stuffing, the following is 
extra nice : Peel 4 apples and core them, chop fine with 
2 large onions, 4 leaves of sage, and 4 leaves of lemon 
thyme. Boil some white potatoes, mash them and add 
I pint to the chopped ingredients with a teaspoon of 
salt and a little cayenne. Stuff the shoulder with this 
and sew up all the openings. Dredge with flour, salt 
and pepper and roast in a hot oven, allowing twenty 
minutes to the pound. Baste frequently, with hot 
water at first, and then with gravy from the pan. Serve 
with currant jelly, potatoes and some green vegetables. 
Another extra good stuffing for pork is made with 
sweet potatoes as a basis. Boil the potatoes, peel and 
mash To a half pint of potato add a quarter pint of 
finely chopped celery, 2 tablespoons chopped onions, 
J teaspoon pepper, teaspoon each of salt and chopped 
parsley and a tablespoon of butter. 



90 HOME PORK MAKING. 

PORK ROASTED WITH TOMATOES. 

Take a piece for roasting and rub well with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and pour into the pan 
a pint of hot water, and place in a brisk oven. This 
must be done two or three hours before dinner, accord- 
ing to the size of roast; baste the meat often. An hour 
before dinner peel some tomatoes (about a quart), put 
them into a bowl and mash with the hands till the pulp 
is in fine pieces, add to them a chopped onion, a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley and ^ teaspoon each of sage 
and thyme. Draw the pan containing the roast to the 
mouth of oven and skim all the fat from the gravy; 
pour the tomatoes into the pan, and bake for one hour. 
With this serve a big dish of rice. 

PORK WITH SWEET POTATOES. 

Prepare the roast as described above, either stuflfed 
or otherwise. When partly done, peel and cut some 
sweet potatoes into slices about three inches long. 
Bank these all around the meat, covering it and filling 
the pan. Baste often with the gravy and bake one 
hour. Serve with this a Russian salad, made of vege- 
tables. Young carrots may be used in place of 
sweet potatoes. 

RARE OI.D FAMILY DISHES, DESCRIBED FOR THIS 
WORK BY THE BEST COOKS IN AMERICA. EVERY 
ONE OF THESE RECIPES IS A SPECIAL FAVORITE 
THAT HAS BEEN OFTEN TRIED AND NEVER FOUND 
WANTING. NONE OF THESE RECIPES HAS EVER 
BEFORE BEEN PRINTED, AND ALL WILL BE FOUND 
SIMPLE, ECONOMICAL AND HYGIENIC. 

Mam,. 

BOILED. 

Wash well a salted, smoked pig's ham, put this in 
a large kettle of boiling water and boil until tender, 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 9 1 

remove from the kettle, take off all of the rind, itick 
in a quantity of whole cloves, place in a baking pan, 
sprinkle over with a little sugar, pour over it a cup of 
cider, or, still better, sherry. Place in the oven and 
bake brown. 

FOR LUNCH. 

Mince cold ham fine, either boiled or fried, add a 
couple of hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a tablespoon 
of prepared mustard, a little vinegar and a sprinkling 
of salt. Put in a mold. When cold cut in thin slices 
or spread on bread for sandwiches. 

BONED. 

Having soaked a well-cured ham in tepid water 
over night, boil it until perfectly tender, putting it on in 
warm water; take up, let cool, remove the bone care- 
fully, press the ham again into shape, return to the 
boiling liquor, remove the pot from the fire and let the 
ham remain in it till cold. Cut across and serve cold. 

POTTED. 

Mince left-over bits of boiled ham and to every 2 
lbs. lean meat allow ^ lb. fat. Pound all in a mortar 
until it is a fine paste,graduallyadding J teaspoon pow- 
dered mace, the same quantity of cayenne, a pinch of 
allspice and nutmeg. Mix very thoroughly, press into 
tiny jars, filling them to within an inch of the top; fill up 
with clarified butter or drippings and keep in a 
cool place. This is nice for tea or to spread picnic 
sandwiches. 

STEW. 

A nice way to use the meat left on a ham bone 
after the frying slices are removed is to cut it off in 



92 HOME PORK MAKING. 

small pieces, put into cold water to cover and let it 
come to a boil. Pour off the water and add enough 
hot to make sufficient stew for your family. Slice an 
onion and potatoes into it. 

WITH VEAL. 

A delicious picnic dish is made of ham and veal. 
Chop fine equal quantities of each and put into a 
baking dish in layers with slices of hard-boiled eggs 
between; boil down the water in which the veal was 
cooked, with the bones, till it will jelly when cold; 
flavor with celery, pepper and salt and pour over the 
meat. Cover with a piecrust half an inch thick and 
bake until the crust is done. Slice thin when cold. 

OMELET. 

Beat 6 eggs very light, add | teaspoon salt, 3 table- 
spoons sweet milk, pepper to taste, have frying pan 
very hot with i tablespoon butter in; turn in the 
mixture, shake constantly until cooked, then put i cup 
finely chopped ham over the top and roll up like jelly 
cake, cut in slices. 

BAKED. 

Most persons boil ham. It is much better baked, 
if baked right. Soak it for an hour in clean water and 
wipe dry. Next spread it all over with thin batter and 
then put it into a deep dish, with sticks under it to keep 
it out of the gravy. When it is fully done, take off the 
skin and batter crusted upon the flesh side, and set 
away to cool. It should bake from six to eight hours. 
After removing the skin, sprinkle over with' two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, some black pepper and powdered 
crackers. Put in pan and return to the oven to 
brown; then take up and stick cloves through the fat, 
and dust with powdered cinnamon. 



COOKING AND SEBVING PORK. 93 

WITH CORN MEAL. 

Take bits of cold boiled ham, cut into fine pieces, 
put in a frying pan with water to cover, season well. 
When it boils, thicken with corn meal, stirred in care- 
fully, like mush. Cook a short time, pour in a dish to 
mold, slice off and fry. 

BALLS. 

Chop J pint cold boiled ham fine. Put a gill of 
milk in a saucepan and set on the fire. Stir in ^ teacup 
stale bread crumbs, the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and the 
ham. Season with salt, cayenne and a little nutmeg. 
Stir over the fire until hot, add a tablespoon chopped 
parsley, mix well and turn out to cool. When cold 
make into small balls, dip in beaten egg, then in bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

TOAST. 

Remove the fat from some slices of cold boiled 
ham, chop fine. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter into a 
saucepan on the stove, add the chopped ham and half 
a cup of sweet cream or milk. Season with pepper 
and salt; when hot, remove from the stove and stir in 
quickly 3 well-beaten eggs. Pour onto toast and serve 
at once. 

FLAVORED WITH VEGETABLES. 

Take a small ham, as it will be finer grained than 
a large one, let soak for a few hours in vinegar and 
water, put on in hot water, then add 2 heads of celery, 
2 turnips, 3 onions and a large bunch of savory herbs. 
A glass of port or sherry wine will improve the flavor 
of the ham. Simmer very gently until tender, take it 
out and remove the skin, or if to be eaten cold, let it 
remain in the liquor until nearly cold. 



94 HOME PORK MAKING. 

PATTIES. 

One pint of ham which has previously been 
cooked, mix with two parts of bread crumbs, wet with 
milk. Put the batter in gem pans, break i egg over 
each, sprinkle the top thickly with cracker crumbs and 
bake until brown. A nice breakfast dish. 

PATTIES WITH ONIONS. 

Two cups bread crumbs moistened with a. little 
milk, and two cups cooked ham thoroughly mixed. If 
one likes the flavor, add a chopped onion. Bake in 
gem pans. Either break an egg over each gem or chop 
cold hard-boiled egg and sprinkle over them. Scatter 
a few crumbs on top. Add bits of butter and season 
highly with pepper and salt, and brown carefully. 

FRIED PATTIES. 

One cup cold boiled ham (chopped fine), i cup 
bread crumbs, i egg, salt and pepper to taste, mix to 
the right thickness with nice meat dressing or sweet 
milk, mold in small patties and fry in butter, 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mince your ham fine and add plenty of mustard, 
3 eggs, I tablespoon flour, i tablespoon butter and as 
much chopped cucumber pickles as you have ham. Beat 
this thoroughly together and pour into i pint of boil- 
ing vinegar, but do not let the mixture boil. When it 
cools, spread between your sandwiches. 

Salt Pork. 

FRIED WITH FLOUR. 

Slice the pork thinly and evenly, placing it in a 
large frying pan of water, and turning it twice while 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 95 

freshening. This prevents it humping in the middle, 
as pork, unless the slices are perfectly flat, cannot be 
fried evenly. When freshened sufficiently, drain, throw 
the water off, and, rolling each slice in flour, return to 
the frying pan. Fry a delicate brown, place on a platter 
dry, add slices of lemon here and there. Drain all the 
frying fat off, leaving a brown sediment in the pan. 
Pour I cup of rich milk on this, and when it thickens 
(keep stirring constantly until of the consistency of rich, 
thick cream), pour into a gravy boat, and dust with 
pepper. — [M. G. 

FRIED PORK AND GRAVY. 

Cut the rind from a firm piece of fat salt pork that 
has a few streaks of lean (if preferred). Slice thin, 
scald in hot water, have the frying pan smoking hot, 
put in the slices of pork and fry (without scorching) 
until crisp. Then pour off nearly all the fat, add some 
hot water after the slices have been removed from the 
pan, and stir in some flour moistened with cold water 
for a thickened gravy. — [Farmer's Wife. 

FRIED IN BATTER OR WITH APPLES. 

Slice thin and fry crisp in a hot frying pan, then 
dip in a batter made as follows : One egg well beaten, 3 
large spoons rich milk, and flour enough to make a 
thin batter. Fry once more until the batter is a deli- 
cate brown, and if any batter remains it may be fried 
as little cakes and served with the pork. Instead of 
the batter, apples, sliced, may be fried in the fat, with 
a little water and sugar added, or poor man's cakes, 
made by scalding 4 spoons granulated (or other) corn 
meal with boiling water, to which add a pinch of salt 
and I Qgg, stirred briskly in. — [F. W. 

SWEET FRIED. 

Take nice slices of pork, as many as you need, and 
parboil in buttermilk for five minutes, then fry to a 



96 HOME PORK MAKING. 

golden brown. Or parboil the slices in skimmilk, and 
while frying sprinkle on each slice a little white sugar 
and fry a nice brown. Be watchful while frying, as it 
burns very easily after the sugar is on. — [I. M. W. 

TO FRY IN BATTER. 

Prepare as for plain fried pork, fry without dip- 
ping in flour, and when done, dip into a batter made as 
follows: One egg beaten light, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk 
and the same of sifted flour, or enough to make a thin 
batter. Stir smooth, salt slightly, dip the fried pork 
into it and put back into the hot drippings. Brown 
slightly on both sides, remove to a hot platter and 
serve immediately. — [R. W. 

FRIED WITH SAGE. 

Freshen the pork in the usual manner with water 
or soaking in milk, partly fry the pork, then put three 
or four freshly picked sprigs of sage in the frying pan 
with the pork. When done, lay the crisp fried sage 
leaves on platter with the pork. — [Mrs. W. L. R. 

MRS. BISBEE'S CREAMED PORK. 

Slice as many slices as your frying pan will hold, 
pour on cold water, place upon the range to freshen; 
when hot, pour ofif the water and fry until crispy; take 
out upon a platter, pour the fat in a bowl. Pour some 
milk, about a pint, in the frying pan, boil, thicken and 
pour upon the fried pork. Serve at once. — 
[Mrs. G. A. B. 

BAKED. 

Take a piece of salt pork as large as needed, score 
it neatly and soak in milk and water half an hour, or 
longer if very salt; put into a baking pan with water 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 97 

and a little flour sprinkled over the scoring. Bake 
until done. Always make a dressing to eat with this, 
of bread and cracker crumbs, a lump of butter, an egg, 
salt, pepper and sage to taste ; mix with hot milk, pack 
in a deep dish and bake about twenty minutes. Keep 
water in the baking dish after the meat is taken up, 
pour off most of the fat and thicken the liquor. 
Tomatoes go well with this dish, also cranberry sauce. 

BOILED. 

Boll 4 or 5 lbs. of pork having streaks of lean in 
it, in plenty of water, for one and one-half hours. Take 
out, remove skin, cut gashes across the top, sprinkle 
over powdered sage, pepper and rolled crackers. 
Brown in the oven. Slice when cold. 

CREAMED IN MILK AND WATER. 

Freshen 10 or 12 slices of fat pork and fry a nice 
brown, then take up the pork and arrange on a deep 
platter. Next pour off half the fat from the frying pan 
and add i cup of milk and i of boiling water, and i 
tablespoon flour mixed with a little cold milk or water, 
or else sifted in when the milk and water begin to boil, 
but then a constant stirring is required to prevent it 
from being lumpy. Next add a pinch of salt and a 
dust of pepper, let it boil up, and pour over the pork. 



Enough for six. 



EGG PORK. 



Take slices of pork and parboil in water, sprinkle 
a little pepper on the pork and put into the frying pan 
with a small piece of butter and fry. Take i egg 
and a little milk and beat together. When the meat 
is nearly done, take each slice and dip into the egg, lay 
back in the pan and cook until done. 



98 HOME PORK MAKING. 

CREAMED PORK. 

Take 6 slices nice pork, or as many as will fry in 
the frying pan, and parboil for five minutes, then take 
out of the water and roll one side of each slice in flour 
and fry to a golden brown. When fried, turn nearly 
all of the fat off and set the pan on the stove again and 
turn on a cup of nice sweet cream; let it boil up, then 
serve on a platter. 

Soups, Stews, Etc. 

PORK SOUP. 

Put pork bones in pot of cold salted water. Add 
the following ingredients, in a cheesecloth bag: A few 
pepper seeds, a bit of horse-radish, mace, and i sliced 
turnip. Boil as for beef soup; strain and add a tea- 
spoon of rice flour to each pint, and let come to a boil. 
Serve with crackers. 

PORK STEW 

Slice and fry in a kettle from i to J lb. salt pork, 
drain off the fat and save for shortening, add 3 pints 
boiling water, 2 or 3 onions sliced thin, i quart potatoes 
sliced and pared, a sprinkling of pepper, large spoon 
flour mixed in i cup of cold water. Let the onions 
boil a few moments before adding the potatoes and 
flour. Five minutes before serving, add i dozen 
crackers, split and moistened with hot water, or make 
dumplings as for any stew. 

DRY STE"W. 

Place slices of pork in the frying pan and fill full 
with chipped potatoes; pour over a little water and 
cover tightly, and cook until the pork begins to fry, 
then loosen from the bottom with a wide knife and 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 99 

pour over more water, and so on until done. Pepper 
and salt and a bit of butter. 

OLD-FASHIONED STEW. 

Place 6 large slices of park in the kettle with near- 
ly a quart of water, let it boil half an hour, then add 
8 sliced potatoes and 2 sliced onions, and when nearly- 
done add a little flour, pepper and salt, and a lump 
of butter. 

CHOWDER. 

Cut 4 slices of salt pork in dice, place in kettle and 
fry, add 6 good-sized onions chopped fine, let fry while 
preparing 8 potatoes, then add i quart boiling water 
and the potatoes sliced thin. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Boil one-half hour. 

Miscellaneous. 

BACON. BROILED OR FRIED. 

The first essential is to have the bacon with a 
streak of lean and a streak of fat, and to cut or slice it 
as thin as possible. Then lay it in a shallow tin and 
set it inside a hot stove. It will toast evenly and the 
slices will curl up and be so dry that they may be taken 
in the fingers to eat. The lard that exudes may be 
thickened with flour, a cup of sweet new milk and a 
pinch of black pepper added, and nice gravy made. Or 
if preferred, the bacon, thinly sliced, may be fried on a 
hot skillet, just turning it twice, letting it slightly 
brown on both sides. Too long in the hot skillet, the 
bacon gets hard and will have a burned taste. 

BRAINS. 

Lay the brains in salt and water for an hour to 
draw out the blood. Pick them over and take out any 



lOO HOME PORK MAKING. 

bits of bone and membrane. Cook for half an hour in 
a small quantity of water. When cooked drain off the 
water, and to each brain add a little pepper, nearly an 
even teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter and i 
beaten egg. Cook until the egg thickens. Or when 
the brains are cooked, drain off the water, season with 
salt, pepper and sag'e. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over and let soak over night i quart beans; in 
the morning wash and drain, and place in a kettle with 
cold water, with J teaspoon soda, boil about twenty 
minutes, then drain and put in earthen bean dish with 2 
tablespoons molasses, season with pepper. In the cen- 
ter of the beans put i lb. well-washed salt pork, with 
the rind scored in slices or squares, rind side upper- 
most. Cover all with hot water and bake six hours 
or longer, in a moderate oven. Keep covered so they 
will not burn on the top, but an hour or so before serv- 
ing remove the pork to another dish and allow it to 
brown. Beans should also brown over the top. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Put a piece of salt pork to cook in cold water about 
9 o'clock. At 10 o'clock add a few beets, at 11 o'clock 
a head of cabbage, quartered. One-half hour later add 
the potatoes. Serve very hot. 

GERMAN WICK-A-WACK. 

Save the rinds of salt pork, boil until tender, then 
chop very fine, add an equal amount of dried bread 
dipped in hot water and chopped. Season with salt, 
pepper and summer savory; mix, spread one inch deep 
in baking dish, cover with sweet milk. Bake one-half 
hour. Very nice. 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. lOI 

BROILED PORK. 

Soak the pork in cold water over night. Wipe 
dry and broil over coals until , crisp. Pour over it ^ 
pint sweet cream. Ham cooked this way is delicious. 

LUNCH LOAF. 

Chop remnants of cold boiled ham or salt pork, 
add crushed crackers and from 3 to 6 eggs, according 
to the amount of your meat. Bake in a round baking 
powder box, and when cold it can be sliced for the table. 

PORK HASH. 

Take scraps of cold pork and ham, chop very fine, 
put in frying pan, add a very little water, let cook a few 
minutes, then add twice this amount of chopped potato. 
Salt and pepper to taste, fry and serve hot. 

FOR SUNDAY LUNCHEON. 

Take the trimmings saved from ribs, backbone, 
jowl, shanks of ham and shoulder, and all the nice bits 
of meat too small for ordinary use; place in a kettle 
with sufficient water to barely cover meat, and boil 
slowly until quite tender. Fit a piece of stout cheese- 
cloth in a flat-bottomed dish and cover with alternate 
strips of fat and lean meat while hot; sprinkle sparingly 
with white pepper, add another layer of meat and a few 
very thin slices of perfectly sound tart apples. Repeat 
until pork is used, then sew up the ends of the cloth 
compactly, place between agate platters and subject to 
considerable pressure over night. Served cold this 
makes a very appetizing addition to Sunday suppers or 
luncheon. 

PORK CHEESE. 

Cut 2 lbs. cold roast pork into small pieces, allow- 
ing i lb. fat to each pound of lean; salt and pepper to 



102 HOME PORK MAKING. 

taste. Pound in a mortar a dessert spoon minced 
parsley, 4 leaves of sage, a very small bunch of savory 
herbs, 2 blades of mace, a little nutmeg, half a teaspoon 
of minced lemon peel. Mix thoroughly with the meat, 
put into a mold and pour over it enough well-flavored 
strong stock to make it very moist. Bake an hour and a 
half and let it cool in the mold. Serve cold, cut in thin 
slices and garnished with parsley or cress. This is a 
cooking school recipe. For ordinary use the powdered 
spices, which may be obtained at almost any country 
store, answer every purpose. Use i teaspoon sage, ^ 
teaspoon each of summer savory and thyme, and a 
pinch of mace. 

PORK FLOUR-GRAVY. 

Take the frying pan after pork has been fried in 
it, put in a piece of butter half as large as an egg, let it 
get very hot, then put in a spoonful of flour sprinkled 
over the bottom of the pan. Let this get thoroughly 
browned, then turn boiling water on it, say about a 
pint. Now take a tablespoon of iiour, heaping, wet it 
up with a cup of sweet milk and stir into the boiling 
water, add salt and pepper to taste, and a small piece 
more butter, cook well and serve. 

PORK OMELET. 

Cut the slices of pork quite thin, discarding the 
rind, fry on both sides to a light brown, remove from 
the spider, have ready a batter made of from 2 or 3 
eggs (as the amount of pork may require), beaten up 
with a little flour and a little sweet milk, pouring half 
of this batter into the spider. Then lay in the pork 
again, and pour the remaining part of the batter over 
the pork. When cooked on the one side, cut in squares 
and turn. Serve hot. Sometimes the pork is cut in 
small squares before adding theTaatter. 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. I03 

ANOTHER OMELET. 

Put I cup cold fried salt pork (cut in dice) and 3 
tablespoons sweet milk on back of stove to simmer, 
then beat 6 eggs and i teaspoon salt until just blended. 
Put 2 tablespoons butter in frying pan. When hot add 
eggs and shake vigorously until set, then add the 
hot creamed pork, spread over top, fold, and 
serve immediately. 

PIG'S FEET. 

Cut off the feet at the first joint, then cut the legs 
into as many pieces as there are joints, wash and scrape 
them well and put to soak over night in cold, slightly 
salted water; in the morning scrape again and change 
the water; repeat at night. The next morning put 
them on to boil in cold water to cover, skim carefully, 
boil till very tender, and serve either hot or cold, with 
a brown sauce made of part of the water in which they 
were boiled, and flavored with tomato or chopped 
cucumber pickles. If the pig's feet are cooled and then 
browned in the oven, they will be much nicer than if 
served directly from the kettle in which they were 
boiled. Save all the liquor not used for the sauce, for 
pig's feet are very rich in jelly; when cold, remove the 
fet, which should be clarified, and boil the liquor down 
to a glaze; this may be potted, when it will keep a long 
time and is useful for glazing, or it may be used for 
soups either before or after boiling down. — [R. W. 

PICKLED PIG'S FEET. 

Clean them well, boil until very tender, remove all 
the bones. Chop the meat, add it to the water they 
were boiled in, salt to taste. Add enough vinegar to 
give a pleasing acid taste, pour into a dish to cool. 
When firm, cut in slices. Or leave out the vinegar and 



I04 HOME PORK MAKING. 

serve catsup of any kind with the meat. Or before 
cooking the feet, wrap each one in cloth and boil seven 
hours. When cold take oflf the cloth and cut each foot 
in two pieces. Serve cold with catsup or pepper sauce 
or horse-radish. Or the feet may be put into a jar and 
covered with cold vinegar, to which is added a handful 
of whole cloves. — [A. L. N. 

KIDNEY ON TOAST. 

Cut a kidney in large pieces and soak in cold water 
an hour. Drain and chop fine, removing all string and 
fiber; also chop separately one onion. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying pan, and when melted 
add the chopped kidney and stir till the mixture turns 
a whitish color, then add the onion. Cook five min- 
utes, turn into a small stewpan, season and add a cupful 
of boiling water. Simmer an hour and thicken with a 
teaspoonful of cornstarch wet with cold water. Cook 
five minutes longer, pour over slices of nicely browned 
toast and serve. 

Pork Fritters, 

CORN MEAL FRITTERS. 

Make a thick batter of corn meal and flour, cut a 
few slices "of pork and fry until the fat is fried out; cut 
a few more slices, dip them in the batter, and drop 
them in the bubbling fat, seasoning with salt and 
pepper; cook until light brown, and eat while hot. 

FRITTERS WITH EGG. 

Fry slices of freshened fat pork, browning both 
sides, then make a batter of i egg, i cup milk, i tea- 
spoon baking powder sifted through enough flour to 
make a rather stifif batter, and a pinch of salt. TTow 
remove the pork from the frying pan and drop in large 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 10$ 

spoonfuls of the batter, and in the center of each place 
a piece of the fried pork, then cover the pork with 
batter, and when nicely brown, turn and let the other 
side brown. Currant jelly is nice with them. 

FRICATBLLE. 

Chop raw fresh pork very fine, add a little salt and 
plenty of pepper, 2 small onions chopped fine, half as 
much bread as there is meat, soaked until soft, 2 eggs. 
Mix well together, make into oblong patties and fry 
like oysters. These are nice for breakfast. If used for 
supper, serve with sliced lemon. 

CROQUETTES. 

Raw pork chopped fine, 2 cups, I small onion 
chopped very fine, i teaspoon powdered sage, i cup 
bread crumbs rubbed fine, salt and pepper to taste, 2 
eggs beaten light. Mix thoroughly, .make small flat 
cakes, roll lightly in flour and fry in hot lard. 

Pork Pies, Cakes and Puddings, 

PORK PIE. 

• 

Cut fresh pork in small inch and half-inch pieces, 
allowing both fat and lean. Boil until done in slightly 
salted water. Lay away in an earthen dish over night. 
In the morning it will be found to be surrounded with 
a firm meat jelly. Will not soak pie crust. Make a 
rich baking powder biscuit paste. Roll out thin, make 
top and bottom crust, fill with the prepared pork. 
Bake.— [H. M. G. 

A HINT FOR PORK PIE. 

Every housekeeper knows how to make pork pie, 
but not every one knows that if the bottom crust is first 



Io6 HOME PORK MAKING. 

baked with a handful of rice to prevent bubbling — the 
rice may be used many times for the same purpose — 
and the pork partially cooked before the upper crust is 
added, the pie will be twice as palatable as if baked 
in the old way. The crust will not be soggy and the 
meat juices will not lose flavor by- evaporation. — ■ 
[Mrs..O. P. 

POKK PIE WITH APPLES. 

Line a deep pudding dish with pie crust. Place a 
layer of tart apples in the dish, sprinkle with sugar and 
a little nutmeg, then place a layer of thin slices of fat 
salt pork (not cooked), sprinkle lightly with black 
pepper. Continue to add apples and pork until the 
dish is full. Cover with a crust and bake until the 
apples are cooked, when the pork should be melted. 
Serve as any pie. — [M. C. 

SPARERIB PIE. 

Chop the small mussy pieces of meat, put in a 
pudding or bread tin, add some of the gravy and a little 
water. Make a biscuit crust, roll half an inch thick 
and put over the top and bake. A tasty way is to cut 
the crust into biscuits, place close together on top of 
the meat and bake. More dainty to serve than the 
single crust. A cream gravy or some left from the rib 
is nice with this pie. Any of the lean meat makes a 
nice pie, made the same as the above. 

PORK CAKE WITHOUT LARD. 

Over I lb. fat salt pork, chopped very fine, pour a 
pint of boiling water. While it is cooling, sift 9 cups 
flour with I heaping teaspoon soda and 2 of cream 
tartar, stir in 2 cups sugar and i of molasses, 4 eggs, 
teaspoon of all kinds spice, 2 lb§. raisins, i lb. currants 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. IO7 

tnd ^ Ib.citron. Lastly, thoroughly beat in the pork and 
water and bake slowly. This will keep a long time. 

PORK CAKE. 

Take J cup sugar, ^ cup strong coffee, ^ cup mo- 
lasses, ^ cup chopped salt pork,^ cup lard, i cup raisins, 
stoned and chopped, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs, i teaspoon 
soda, dissolved in coffee, i teaspoon cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg. 

PORK PUDDING. 

This is made somewhat after the style of the 
famous English beefsteak pudding — differs only in two 
points. Cut up the pieces of fresh pork and stew in 
the skillet, in slightly salted water, till soft. Make a 
rich biscuit dough or plain pie paste. Line a quart 
basin and fill with the stewed pork. Add pepper, a 
few chopped potatoes if desired, cover all with the 
paste pinched tightly over, tie a small cloth tightly 
over the basin, then place basin in a larger cloth, 
gather the corners together and tie snugly over top, 
boil in a kettle for half an hour. Be sure the water is 
boiling hot before placing the basin in, and keep it 
boiling, with a tight lid. 

Boasts. 

FRESH LEG. 

Score the leg with sharp knife in half-inch gashes, 
fill with a filling inade of chopped onion, sage, bread 
crumbs and mixed with the beaten yolks and whites of 2 
eggs, salt ; stuff knuckle and gashes also. Pepper freely 
and roast it well. A leg weighing 8 lbs. requires three 
hours of a steady fire. Drain off fat from roasting tin 
and make a brown gravy. Serve with tart apple sauce. 



I08 HOME PORK MAKING. 

WITH BUTTERMILK. 

Take a piece of pork that is quite lean, soak over 
night in buttermilk and boil until about half done, then 
put it in the baking pan, cut through the rind ip slices, 
sprinkle with pepper and sugar and bake to a 
golden brown. 

DANISH PORK ROAST. 

Braise the roast, and between each slit insert a bit 
of sage — which may be removed before serving; place 
in a deep stewpan and fill the corners and crevices 
with prunes that have been previously soaked in water 
long enough to regain their natural size. Roast in 
moderate oven, basting as usual, taking care not to 
break the prunes. When half done, take up the prunes, 
remove pits, crush and add to a dressing made as fol- 
lows: Moisten 2 cups bread crumbs — one-third corn 
bread is preferable to all wheat — season with salt, 
pepper and a mere hint of onions. Put into a cheese- 
cloth bag — saltbag if at hand — and bake beside the 
roast for half an hour, taking care to prevent scorch- 
ing. Serve in slices with the roast. 

SPARERIB. 

Season well with salt, pepper and a little sage. Put 
in roasting pan with a little water, bake a nice brown. 
By cracking the ribs twice, you can roll up and fasten 
with skewers, or tie up with coarse twine. Put the 
stuffing inside, same as turkey. After it is done, take 
meat from pan. If the water is not' all cooked out, set 
on top of stove until none remains. Pour out the 
grease, leaving about half a cup. Set back to cool so 
as not to cook the gravy too fast at first. Stir 2 spoons 
or more of flour into the grease and let brown. Add 
boiling water to make the required amount of gravy, 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. IO9 

Before removing from fire, add ^ cup sweet cream. 
Baked or mashed potatoes with cold slaw are in order 
with sparerib, with currant, cranberry or apple sauce. 
Very nice cold with fried potatoes or chips for supper. 

lAvevm 

WITH BACON. 

Pour salted boiling water over the liver and let it 
stand a few minutes, drain and slice. Crisp thin slices 
of bacon in a hot frying pan, lay them neatly around the 
edge of a platter or deep dish, and set the dish where it 
will keep hot. Fry the liver in the drippings from the 
bacon and put it in the middle of the dish. Pour a 
little boiling water into the frying pan, season to taste 
with pepper and salt, thicken with browned flour and 
pour over the liver or serve separately. — [R. F. 

LIVEK AND ONIONS. 

Use two frying pans. In both have a generous 
supply of fryings or salted lard. Cut the liver in thin, 
even slices, and wash in cold water. Wipe each slice 
dry before placing it in the hot grease; fill the frying 
pan full, pepper and salt all, cover with lid and set over 
a brisk fire. Slice the onions and place them in the 
second frying pan of hot grease, pepper, salt and stir 
frequently. Turn the liver once, each slice. When 
done, place on a platter, with the onions heaped over 
and around. — [H. M. G. 

HASHED. 

Parboil the liver, chop it fine and put it into a hot 
frying pan with just enough of the liquor it was boiled 
in to moisten it so it won't be hard and dry. When 
hot, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve with 
mashed potato. Or you can chop cold boiled potatoes 



no HOME PORK MAKING. 

with the liver and make a regular hash of it if pre- 
ferred. — [R. L. 

Heart. 

STUFFED. 

Take three hearts, remove the ventricles and 
dividing wall, wash and wipe out dry. Fill with 3 
tablespoons chopped ham, 4 tablespoons bread crumbs, 
a little melted butter, some pepper and salt; beat up an 
egg and mix the meat, etc., with as much of the egg as 
is needed to bind it together. Tie each heart in a piece 
of cloth and boil three hours, or till tender, in salt and 
water. Remove the cloths carefully, so as to keep the 
dressing in place, rub them over with butter and 
sprinkle with a little flour, and brown in a brisk oven. 
Reduce the liquor and thicken it. Serve with mashed 
potatoes and apple jelly. 

BOILED. 

Make a biscuit dough rather stifif, sprinkle a well- 
cleaned heart over with a little pepper and salt, roll 
the heart securely in the biscuit dough, wrap all in a 
clean white cloth and sew or baste together loosely, 
then put in a kettle of hot water and boil about four 
hours. Serve hot by removing cloth and slicing, 

StiMstige. 

, SAUSAGE WITH DRIED BEEF. 

To 10 lbs. meat allow 5 tablespoons salt, 4 of black 
pepper, 3 of sage, and ^ tablespoon cayenne. Some 
persons prefer to add a little ginger, thinking that it 
keeps the sausage from rising on the stomach. Mix 
the spices thoroughly through the meat, which may be 
put into skins or muslin bags and hung in a cold, dry 
■ place, or partly cooked and packed in jars with a cov- 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. Ill 

ering of lard. Every housekeeper uses fried and baked 
sausages, but sausage and dried beef is a more uncom- 
mon dish. Cut the sausage into small pieces, put it 
into a stewpan with water to cover, and put on to cook. 
Slice the dried beef and tear it into small pieces, re- 
moving fat and gristle, and put into the stew pan. When 
done, thicken slightly with flour, season and stir an egg 
quickly into it. Don't get the gravy too thick and 
don't beat the egg— it wants to show in little flakes of 
white and yellow. — [Rosalie Williams. 

SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Make a rich pie paste, roll out thin and cut, with 
a large cooky cutter or a canister lid, large discs of 
the paste. Take a small cooked sausage, and placing 
it on the edge of the circle of paste, roll it up and pinch 
the ends together. Bake in a quick oven and serve 
hot or cold. 

WITH CABBAGE. 

Put some pieces of fat and lean pork through the 
sausage mill; add a finely chopped onion, pepper, salt 
and a dash of mace. Cut a large, sound head of cab- 
bage in two, scoop out the heart of both halves and 
fill with sausage meat; tie up the head securely with 
stout twine, put into salted water sufficient to cover 
the cabbage, and boil one hour and a half. Drain 
thoroughly and save the liquid, which should not 
exceed one cupful in all. Brown a tablespoonful of 
butter over a hot fire, stir in a teaspoon of'browned 
flour and add the liquid; pour over cabbage and 
serve hot. 

GOOD SAUSAGE. 

This sausage recipe has been proved good. Take 
30 lbs. pork and 12 oz. salt, 2 oz. pepper, 2 oz. sage. 
Put sage in a pan and dry in oven, then sift. You can 
add two ounces of ground mustard if you wish. Add 



112 HOME PORK MAKING. 

2 or 3 lbs. sugar, mix all together, salt, pepper, etc., 
and mix with meat before it is chopped. After it is 
well mixed, cut to your liking. 

Fresh Pork, 

CUTLETS. 

Cut them from a loin of pork, bone and trim neatly 
and cut away most of the fat. Broil fifteen minutes on 
a hot gridiron, turning them three or four times, until 
they are ■ thoroughly done but not dry. Dish, season 
with pepper and salt and serve with tomato sauce or 
with small pickled cucumbers as a garnish. 

BREADED CUTLETS. 

A more elaborate -dish is made by dipping the 
cutlets into beaten egg seasoned to taste with salt, 
pepper and sage, then into rolled cracker or bread 
crumbs. Fry slowly till thoroughly done, and serve 
with mashed potatoes. 

CUTLETS FROM COLO ROAST PORK. 

Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, lay in the 
cutlets and an onion chopped fine, and fry a light 
brown; then add a dessertspoon of flour, half a pint of 
gravy, pepper and salt to taste, and a teaspoon each of 
vinegar and made mustard. Simmer gently a few min- 
utes and serve. 

• PORK CHOPS. 

The white meat along the backbone (between the 
ribs and ham) is not always sufficiently appreciated, 
and is often peeled from the fat, cut from the bones and 
put into sausage, which should never be done, as it is 
the choicest piece in the hog to fry. Leave fat and 
lean together, saw through the bone, fry or broil. The 
meat gravy should be served in a gravy boat. 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. II3 

BREADED PORK CHOPS. 

Cut chops about an inch thick, beat them flat with 
a rolling pin, put them in a pan, pour boiling water 
over them, and set them over the fire for five minutes; 
then take them up and wipe them dry. Mix a table- 
spoon of salt and a teaspoon of pepper for each pound 
of meat; rub each chop over with this, then dip, first 
into beaten egg, then into crackers, rolled, as much as 
they will take up. Fry in hot lard. 

BARBECUED PORK. 

Put a loin of pork in a hot oven without water, 
sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt, baste with butter, 
cook two or three hours, or until very brown. Pour in 
the gravy half a teacup of walnut catsup. Serve with 
fried apples. 

Moast Pig. 

SUCKING PIG. 

Scald carefully and scrape clean, wipe dry, chop 
off the toes above first joint, remove entrails, and 
although some cook head entire, it is not advisable. 
Remove brains, eyes, upper and lower jaws, leaving 
skin semblance of head, with ears thoroughly scraped 
and cleaned. Make a dressing composed of one large 
boiled onion chopped, powdered sage, salt, pepper, 4 
cups stale bread crumbs, a bit of butter, and all mixed 
with well-beaten eggs. Stuff the body part with this. 
Stitch it up. Previously boil the heart in salted water 
and stuff this into the boneless head skin to preserve 
its shape and semblance. Place it down on its feet, 
head resting on front feet, hind legs drawn out, just as 
you want it to lie on the platter when served or sent 
to table. Roast three hours, constantly basting. 

TO ROAST WHOLE. 

A pig ought not to be under four nor over six 
jveeks old, and ought to be plump and fat. In the city, 



114 HOME PORK MAKING. 

the butcher will sell you a shoat already prepared, but 
in the country, we must prepare our own pig for roast- 
ing. As soon as the pig is killed, throw it into a tub 
of cold water to make it tender; as soon as it is per- 
fectly cold, take it by the hind leg and plunge into 
scalding water, and shake it about until the hair can all 
be removed, by the handful at a time. When the hair 
has all been removed, rub from the tail up to the end of 
the nose with a coarse cloth. Take off the hoofs and 
wash out the inside of the ears and nose until perfectly 
clean. Hang the pig up, by the hind legs, stretched 
open so as to take out the entrails; wash well with 
water with some bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it; 
rinse again and again and let it hang an hour or more 
to drip. Wrap it in a coarse, dry cloth, when taken 
down, and lay in a cold cellar, or on ice, as it is better 
not to cook the pig the same day it is killed. Say kill 
and clean it late in the evening and roast it the next 
morning. Prepare the stuffing of the liver, heart and 
haslets, stewed, seasoned and chopped fine. Mix with 
these an equal quantity of boiled Irish potatoes, 
mashed, or bread crumbs, and season with hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped fine, parsley and sage, or thyme, chopped 
fine, pepper and salt. Scald the pig on the inside, dry it 
and rub with pepper and salt, fill with the stuffing and 
sew up. Bend the forelegs under the body, the hind 
legs forward, and skewer to keep in position. Place 
in a large baking pan and pour over it one quart of 
boiling water. Rub fresh butter all over the pig and 
sprinkle pepper and salt over it, and put a bunch of 
parsley and thyme, or sage, in the water. Turn a pan 
down over it and let it simmer in a hot oven till per- 
fectly tender. Then take off the pan that covers the 
pig, rub it with more butter and let brown, basting it 
frequently with the hot gravy. If the hot water and 
gravy cook down too much, add more hot water and 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. 115 

baste. When of a fine brown, and tender and done all 
through, cover the edges of a large, flat china dish 
with fresh green parsley and place the pig, kneeling, in 
the center of the dish. Place in its mouth a red apple, 
or an ear of green corn, and serve hot with the gravy; 
or serve cold with grated horse-radish and pickle. 
Roast pig ought to be evenly cooked, through and 
through, as underdone pork of any kind, size or age is 
exceedingly unwholesome. It ought also to be evenly 
and nicely browned on the outside, as the tender skin 
when cooked is crisp and palatable. It is easily 
scorched, therefore keep a pig, while roasting, covered 
till tender and almost done. 

Tongue. 

The tongues should be put into the pickle with the 
hams; boil after three or four weeks, pickle in vinegar 
which has been sweetened. Add a tablespoon ground 
mustard to a pint of vinegar. Will keep months. They 
should be pickled whole. Also nice when first cooked 
without pickling. Slice cold, to be eaten with or with- 
out mayonnaise dressing. Sliced thin, and placed 
between thin slices of bread, make delicious sand- 
wiches. Chopped fine, with hard-boiled eggs and 
mayonnaise, make nice sandwiches. Many boil pork 
and beef tongues fresh. An old brown tongue is an 
abomination. The saltpeter gives the pink look canned 
tongues have; the salt and sugar flavor nicely. 

When fresh, tongues are nice for mince pies. They 
may be corned with the hams and boiled and skinned 
and hot vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper poured 
over them; or are nice sliced with cold potatoes, gar- 
nished with cress or lettuce and a cream salad dressing 
poured over them. Cream salad dressing: Stir thor- 
oughly together i teaspoon sugar, six tablespoons thick 
sweet cream and 2 tablespoons vinegar, salt and pepper 



Il6 HOME PORK MAKING. 

or mustard to taste. The cream and vinegar should 
be very cold, and the vinegar added to the cream a little 
at a time, or it will curdle. Stir till smooth and creamy. 

Souse, 

Take off the horny parts of feet by dipping in hot 
water and pressing against them with a knife. Singe 
off hair, let soak in cold water for 24 hours, then 
pour on boiling water, scrape thoroughly, let stand 
in salt and water a few hours ; before boiling wrap each 
foot' in a clean white bandage, cord securely to keep 
skin from bursting, which causes the gelatine to escape 
in the water. Boil four hours. Leave in bandage un- 
til cold. If you wish to pickle them, put in a jar, add 
some of the boiling liquor, add enough vinegar to make 
a pleasant sour, add a few whole peppers. Very nice 
cold. If you want it hot, put some of the pickle and 
feet in frying pan. When boiling, thicken with flour 
and serve hot. — [Nina Gorton. 

See that the feet are perfectly clean, the toes 
chopped off and every particle cleanly scraped, washed 
and wiped. Boil for three hours continually, or until 
every particle falls apart, drain from liquid, pick out 
all the bones, chop slightly, return to the liquid, add | 
cup vinegar, 2 tablespoons sugar, pepper, salt and a 
dash of nutmeg. (Do not have too much liquid.) Boil 
up once more and turn all out into a mold, press lightly, 
and cut cold. — [H. M. Gee. 

Thoroughly clean the pig's feet and knock off the 
horny part with a hatchet. Pour boiling water over 
theiri twice and pour it off, then put them on to cook 
in plenty of water. Do not salt the water. Boil until very 
tender, then take out the feet, pack in a jar, sprinkle 
each layer with salt, whole pepper and whole cloves, 
and cover with equal portions of vingar and the broth 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. II7 

in which the feet were boiled. Put a plate over the top 
with a weight to keep the souse under the vinegar. If 
there remains any portion of -the broth, strain it and let 
stand until cold, remove the fat and clarify the broth 
with a beaten white of egg. It will be then ready for 
blancmange or lemon jelly and is very delicate. 
Scrapple. 

Take hog's tongue, heart, liver, all bones and 
refuse trimmings (some use ears, snout and lights, I do 
not), soak all bloody pieces and wash them carefully, 
use also all clean skins, trimmed from lard. Put into a 
kettle and cover with water, boil until tender and bones 
drop loose, then cut in sausage cutter while hot, strain 
liquor in which it was boiled, and thicken with good 
corn mush meal, boil it well, stirring carefully to pre- 
vent scorching. This mush must be well cooked and 
quite stiff, so that a stick will stand in it. When no raw 
taste is left, stir in the chopped meat and season to 
taste with salt, pepper and herb, sage or sweet mar- 
joram, or anything preferred. When the meat is thor- 
oughly mixed all through the mush, and seasoning is 
satisfactory, dip out into pans of convenient size, to cool. 
Better lift oiif fire and stir carefully lest it scorch. When 
cold, serve in slices like cheese, or fry like mush 
(crisp both sides) for breakfast, serving it with nice 
tomato catsup. It tastes very much like fried oysters. 
Some prefer half buckwheat meal and half corn. To 
keep it, do not let it freeze, and if not covered with 
grease melt some lard and pour over, or it will mold. 
This ought to be sweet and good for a month or more 
in winter, but will crumble and fry soft if it freezes. — 
[Mrs. R. E. Griffith. 
Head Cheese. 

Have the head split down the face, remove the 
skin, ears, eyes and brains, and cut ofif the snout; wash 
thoroughly and soak all day in cold salted water; 



Il8 HOME PORK MAKING. 

change the water and soak over night, then put on to 
cook in cold water to cover. Skim carefully and when 
done so the bones will slip out, remove to a hot pan, 
take out every bone and bit of gristle, and chop the 
meat with a sharp knife as quickly as possible, to keep 
the fat from settling in it. For 6 lbs. meat allow 2 
tablespoons salt, i teaspoon black pepper, a little cay- 
enne, ^ teaspoon clove and 2 tablespoons sage. Stir 
the meat and seasoning well together and put into a 
perforated mold or tie in a coarse cloth, put a heavy 
weight on it and let it stand till cold and firm. The 
broth in which the meat was cooked may be used for 
pea soup, and the fat, if clarified, may be used for 
lard.— [R. W. 

Cut the head up in suitable pieces to fit the recep- 
tacle you wish to boil it in, first cutting off all pieces 
that are not to be used. If too fat, cut off that, too, 
and put with the lard 'to be rendered. Take out the 
brains and lay them in a dish of cold water, then put 
the head on to boil till tender. Be sure to skim well. 
When it begins to boil, cook till the meat is ready to 
drop off the bones, then take up, remove all bones or 
gristle and grind or chop, not too fine ; put in salt, pep- 
per and cloves to taste, also sage if liked, mix all well 
together, heat it all together, and pour in a cloth, which 
is laid in a crock, tie it up tight and put on a weight, to 
press it. Next day remove the cloth and the head cheese 
is readyfor the table. Skim the fat off the liquor thehead 
was boiled in and set aside for future use. Heat the 
liquor to a boil and stir in nicely sifted corn meal. After 
salting, take up in crock and let it get cold, then cut off 
in slices and fry a nice brown. Nice for breakfast. — 
[Mrs. A.. Joseph. 
Pig's Bead. 

English Brawn: Cut off the hearty cheek or jowl, 
and try it out for shortening. Saw the pig's head up in 



COOKING AND SERVING PORK. II9 

small pieces, carefully removing the brains, snoot, eyes, 
jawbones or portions of teeth sockets. (It is surprising 
with saw and a keen, sharp-pointed knife how much of 
the unpleasant pieces of a pig's head can be removed 
before it is consigned to the salt bath.) Soak all night 
in salt and water, drain in the morning and set over the 
fire to boil in slightly salted water. Place the tongue 
in whole also. When the flesh leaves the bone, take 
out and strip all into a wooden chopping bowl, reserv- 
ing the tongue whole. Skin the tongue while warm. 
Chop the head pieces fine, add pepper, salt, powdered 
sage to suit taste. Pack all in a deep, narrow mold 
and press the tongue whole into the middle of the mass. 
Weight down and set away all night to cool. Keep 
this always in a cold place until all is used, and, as usual, 
use a sharp knife to sHce. — [Aunt Ban. 

To Keep Sams and Shoulders. 

We pack them for a few days with a sprinkle of 
dry salt, then lift and wipe dry (both barrel and meat), 
repack and cover with brine, which may be prepared 
thus: To 16 gals, brine (enough to carry an egg) placed 
in a kettle to boil add J lb. sahpeter, 3 pts. syrup mo- 
lasses and a large shovel of hickory ashes tied in a clean 
saltbag or cloth; boil, skim and cool. — [Mrs. R. E. 
Griffith. 

To prepare smoked ham for summer use: Slice 
the ham and cut ofif the rind. Fill a spider near- 
ly full, putting the fat pieces on top. Place in the 
oven and bake. When partly cooked, pack the slices 
of hot ham closely in a stone jar and pour the meat 
juice and fat over the top. Every time that any of the 
meat is taken out, a Httle of the lard should be heated 
and poured back into the jar to keep the meat fresh 
and good. Be very careful each time to completely 
cover the meat with lard. — [Marion Chandler. 



INDKX 



Albuminoids 5 

Animal heat Ig 

Average weights of hogs'". 66 
Backbone, average -weight 

_, of 67 

Bacon and hams 59 

and sides, dry salting... 48 

box for storing 62 

bug, season for 62 

dampness detrimental... 61 

distribution of salt 49 

exports 76 

hogs, prices of 77 

pig 16 

preservatives 48 

quality wanted 6 

second salting 48 

weight of hogs 48 

"Wiltshire cut 72 

world's supply 74 

Black pepper for skippers. 51 

Bleeding the hog 9 

Blood puddings, prepara- 
tion of 36 

Boiler for scalding 10 

Box for salting meats 42 

Brain sausages 30 

Brawn 35 

Breeding 9 

Brine, purifying 42 

Bristles 14 

Butchering on joint ac- 
count 2 

Butcher knife In slaugh- 
tering 9 

Carcass, raising a 21 

Care of hams and shoul- 
ders 44 

Cauldrons 11 

Census of hogs 2 

of live stock 2 

Chine 23 

Chute for handling hogs.. 68 
Control of smoke house... 52 

Cooling the carcass 19 

Co-operative curing 

houses 76 

Corn a fat producer 5 

Corn cobs for smoking 52 

Country dressed hogs 64 

Cracknels 34 



VAOK 

Crate for moving swine... 79 
Crushed crackers in sau- 

„ ?age 32 

Curmg houses, co-opera- 
tive 76 

Cutting up a hog 23 

Dermestes 51 

Devices for scalding.'...".' 14 

Division of work ig 

Dressing and cutting ig 

bench 10 

hints on "" 22 

the carcass '..'.'.'.', 18 

Dry salt for bacon 49 

Entrails 22 

Exclusion of insects 61 

Exports of pork product.. 76 

value of 76 

Farm price of hogs 2 

Pat forming foods 5 

producers 5 

Feeding chart 5 

for flesh 5 

Fence for orchard tree.... 47 

Flesh forming foods 5 

Fires in smoke house 52 

Fire proof smoke house. . . 54 
Foods for flesh and fat.... 5 

Frozen meat ig 

Fuel for smoke houses.... 52 
Gallows for dressed hogs. 22 

Gambrels 22 

Gate, device for opening.. 68 
Gates for handling hogs.. 67 

Griskins 26 

Hair, removal of 14 

Hams, a general cure 44 

American cut 71 

and shoulders 44 

in close boxes 61 

in cloth sacks 61 

in pickling vat 46 

in shelled oats or bran.. 61 
pickling with molasses.. 44 

picnic 71 

shaping , 24 

Westphalian' 45 

Handy salting box 43 

Hanering carcasses 18 

Head, average weight of.. 67 
cheese 35 



121 



122 



INDEX. 



PAGB 

Head, for sausage 27 

Heavy hogs, handling 14 

Hints on dressing 22 

Hog feeding convenience.. 7 
packing for a series of 

years 77 

prices at Chicago 77 

product, exports 76 

product, foreign outlet.. 74 
product, our best cus- 
tomer 74 

farm price 2 

movement at leading 

points 78 

Normandy 6 

on the farm , 2 

receipts at Chicago 76 

Holster for carcass 20 

Ideal meat house 59 

Insects, avoidance of 60 

Intestines 22 

Jawbone 25 

Jowls and head, prepara- 
tion of 34 

Kettle for heating water.. 10 

Knife, use of 19, 22 

Lard, an important point 

in 39 

boiling, safeguards 39 

cheaper grades 37 

cooljing 38 

fine points in making.... 37 

from back fat 37 

In hot weather 40 

kettle or steam rendered. 37 

leaf 37, 39 

neutral 37, 73 

standard 72 

stearlne 73 

storing 40 

time of cooking 38 

to refine 37 

water In 37 

Leading cuts of meat 69 

Light packing hogs 16 

Lights, use of 27 

Liver sausage 30 

Meat house 59 

care of 60 

earthen floor 60 

Meat packed for homeuse. 43 

Meats, box for salting 42 

Mess pork 70 

Methods now in use 1 

Middlings 24 

Molasses in curing pork... 45 



BASS 

Neat meat 23 

Net to gross 67 

Neutral lard 73 

Normandy hogs 6 

Offal 26 

Oven and smoke house 

combined 52 

Packing and marketing 

hogs 77 

at eastern cities 77 

centers 76 

house cuts of pork....... 69 

western 77 

Penetration of salt 49 

Pepper in pickled pork.... 41 
Pickling and barreling.... 41 

Picnic, hams 71 

Pigpen, automatic door... 7 

self-closing door 6 

traveling 3 

Pigs in orchard 47 

Pork, barrel, cleaning 41 

brine, renewing 42 

for the south 50 

making, side lights on... 64 

packing in barrels 41 

packing in boxes 42 

pickled without brine... 41 
product pf commerce.... 70 

Possibilities of profit 2 

Potatoes for swine food.. 46 
Prices of hogs at Chicago. 77 

of pork and lard 67 

Prime steam lard 72 

Profit in home pork mak- 
ing 1 

Protein diet 5 

Pyroligenous acid 54 

Rations 5 

for bacon purposes 6 

Receipts of hogs 78 

Relative weights 67 

Removing bristles 16 

Renewal of pork brine 42 

Resalting bacon 50 

Ringing hogs 66 

Roast pig, merits of 80 

Salt penetration 49 

Saltpeter in bacon 48 

in curing hams... 44 

Sausage bench 32 

Black Forest 29 

Bologna 28 

brain 30 

Frankfort 28 

homemade filler 32 



INDEX. 



123 



PAQB 

Sausage — Continued 

incases 32 

in jars 27 

Italian pork 29 

liver 30 

making 26 

of pork ar-d beef 26 

packed in jars 27 

Royal Cambridge 30 

seasoning 27, 31 

smoked 27 

Spanish 31 

stuffing 27 

Suabian 28 

tomato 31 

tongue 29 

Westphalian 28 

with bread 31 

■with sardines 29 

wrapped for boiling 29 

Sa wbuck scaffold 20 

Scalding 11 

cask on sled 14 

in hogshead 15 

tub U 

vat 11 

Scraping 12 

and washing 14 

Scrapple, Philadelphia 35 

Season for killing 1 

Seasoning sausage 31 

Shaping the ham 24 

Short bones 34 

cut in smoking 54 

ribs 71 

Shoulders, shape de- 
scribed 71 

Singeing pigs 16 

Singers 16 

Skippers 51 

Slaughtering, best meth- 
ods 9 

Sled and cask for scalding 14 

Small hams in pickle 45 

Smoked meat, best color. . 53 
Smoke house, and oven 

combined 52 

barrel 57 

cheap substitute for 56 

fire proof 54 

floors 59 

hardwood sawdust for.. 52 

objectional fuel 52 

substitute 56 

with French draft 58 

with kettle track 56 



PAGE 

Smoking and smoke 

houses 51 

best color 53 

best days for 53 

best meat for 51 

care of fire 52 

meats in a small way... 56 

preparation of meat 51 

use of old stove 54 

Souse, preparation of 34 

Spanish sausage 31 

Spare bone 24 

Spareribs 34 

Speculative commodities.. 70 
Spice puddings, prepara- 
tion of 36 

Standard cuts of pork 70 

lard 72 

Stearine 73 

Stretcher 19 

Substitute for smoke house 56 

Sugar cured hams 45 

Swallow 25 

Swealed hogs 17 

Sweet bacon objection- 
able 48 

Swill, control of 65 

Swine industry, magni- 
tude of 74 

Tackle for heavy hogs 13 

Temperature for scalding. 16 
Tenderloin, average weight 

of 67 

Tin filled for sausage 33 

Trimming for bacon 24 

for lard and sausage 24 

Trough for pigs 65 

protected 8 

Vat, permanent, for scald- 
ing 15 

Weather for dressing 18 

Weight dressed out 67 

Weights of hogs 66 

of portions, relative 67 

Wheat straw for smoking. 52 

Wild boar 35 

Wiltshire cut bacon 72 

Yard attachment 3 

RECIPES 

Fresh Pork. 

barbecued pork 113 

breaded cutlets 112 

breaded pork chops 113 

corn and pork scallop... 89 



124 



INDEX. 



PASS 

Fresh Pork — Continued 

cutlets 112 

cutlets from cold roast 

pork 112 

pork chops 112 

roasted with sweet po- 
tatoes 90 

roasted with tomatoes... 90 
stuffed shoulder of pork. 89 

Ham. 

baked 92 

balls 93 

boiled 90 

boned 91 

flavored with vegetables. 93 

for lunch 91 

omelet 92 

patties 94 

patties fried 94 

patties with onions 94 

potted 91 

sandwiches 94 

stew 91 

toast 93 

with corn meal 93 

with veal 92 

Heart. 

boiled 110 

stuffed 110 

Liver. 

washed 109 

with bacon 109 

with onions 109 

Miscellaneous, 
bacon, broiled or fried... 99 

boiled dinner '. 100 

brains 99 

broiled pork 101 

English brawn 118 

for Sunday luncheon 101 

German wick-a-wack...lOO 
hams and shoulders, to 

keep 119 

headcheese 117 

kidney on toast 104 

lunch loaf 101 

omelet 102, 103 

pepper pot 86 

pickled pigs' feet 103 

pis's feet 103' 

pig's head 118 

pork and beans 100 

pork cheese 101 

pork flour-gravy 102 

pork hash 101 

pork roll 85 

pork pillau 85 



PASS 

Miscellaneous — Continued 
pork with pea pudding. . 87 
pork with sauer kraut... 87 

scrapple 117 

souse 116 

tongue 115 

Pork Fritters. 

corn meal fritters .104 

croquettes 86, 105 

fricatelle 105 

fritters with egg 104 

Pork Pies, Cakes and Pud- 
dings. 

a hint for pork pie 105 

cake 107 

cake without lard 106 

pork pie 83, 105 

pork pie with apples 106 

pork potpie 83 

pork pudding 107 

sea pie 88 

sparerib pie 106 

Roasts. 

Danish pork roast 108 

fresh leg 107 

sparerib 108 

sucking pig 113 

to roast whole pig 113 

with buttermilk 108 

Salt Pork. 

baked 96 

boiled 97 

creamed 98 

creamed in milk and 

water 97 

creamed, Mrs. Bisbee's.. 96 

egg pork 97 

fried in batter 96 

fried with apples 95 

fried with flour 94 

fried with gravy 95 

fried with sage 96 

sweet fried 95 

Sausage. 

good sausage Ill 

sausage rolls Ill 

with cabbage Ill 

with dried beef 110 

Soups. Stews, etc. 

chowder 88,99 

dry stew 98 

old-fashioned stew 99 

pork gumbo • 84 

pork soup 98 

pork stew 98 

succotash 84 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 
Meats amoked In a few hours \rith 

Krauser*s Liquid Extract of Smoke. 




Made from hickory wood. Cheaper, 
cleaner, sweeter, and surer than the 
old way. Send for circular. 

E. KRAUSER & BRO., • • Milton, Pa. 

Best Books for Swine Breeders. 

Coburn's Swine Husbandry. 

By F. D. COBCKN. New, revised and enlarged edition. The breed- 
ing, rearing and management of swine, and the prevention and treat- 
ment of their diseases. It is tlie fullest and freshest compendium 
relating to swine breeding yet offered. Cloth, 12mo. 1.60 

Harris on the Pig. 

By Joseph Harris. The points of the various English and Ameri- 
can breeds are thoroughly discussed, and the great advantage of using 
thoroughbred males clearly shown. Tlie work is equally valuable to 
the farmer who keeps but few pigs, and to the breeder on an extensive 
scale. Illustrated. Clotli, 12mb. 1.0O 

Horses,Xattle, Sheep and Swine. 

By Geo. W. Curtis. The origin, history, improvement, descrip- 
tion, characteristics, merits, objections, adaptability, etc , of each of 
tlie different breeds, with hints on selection, care and management, 
including methods of practical breeders In the United States and 
Canada. 2.00 

Diseases of Swine. 

By D Mcintosh, V. S. A text-book ror swine growers, veterinary 
surgeons and students. Tliis is the first work exclusively devoted to 
tlie subjeci published In America. The subjects dealt with are based 
on science and confirmed by experience, so that the reader will not 
have to lose time in reading tlieories which are not confirmed by 
facts. In the treatment of hog cholera and other diseases which in 
the majority of cases prove fatal, the author's original and extensive 
Investigations have thrown considerable light on many points hitherto 
but little understood. Cloth, 230 pages, 12mo. Illustrated. 2.00 

Feeding: Animals. 

By EiililOT W. Stewart, a valuable and practical Work upon tho 
laws of animal growth, specially applied to the rearing and feeding of 
horses, cattle, dairy cows, slieep and swine. Illustrated. Cloth, 12mo, 

2-00 
Any of the above books sent postpaid on receipt of price. 
Send for free Catalogua 



ORANGE JIDD COMPANY, 

12 UfayMte Place, New York. Marquette BuiMiiig, Chicaan, Hi 



STANDARD BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

ORANGE JUDD COMPANY 

NEW YORK CHICAGO 

Ashland Building People's Gas Building 

315-321 Fourth Avenue ISO Michigan Avenue 



Arr^ of these books rvill be sent by mail, postpaid, to, 
any part of the ivorld, on receipt of catalog price. We are 
alrvays happy to correspond T»ith our patrons, and cordially 
invite them to address us on any matter pertaining to rural 
books. Send for our large illustrated catalog, free on appli- 
cation. 

First Principles of Soil Fertility 

By Alfred Vivian. There is no subject of more vital 
importance to the farmer than that of the best method 
of maintaining the fertility of the soil. The very evident 
decrease in the fertility of those soils which have been 
under cultivation for k number of years, combined with 
the increased competition and the advanced price of labor, 
have convinced the intelligent farmer that the agriculture 
of the future must be based upon more rational practices 
than those which have been followed in the past. We 
have felt for some time that there was a place for a 
brief, and at the same time comprehensive, treatise on 
this important subject of Soil Fertility. Professor Vivian's 
experience as a teacher in the short winter courses has 
admirably fitted him to present this matter in a popular 
style. In this little book he has given the gist of the 
subject in plain language, practically devoid of technical 
and scientific terms. It is pre-eminently a "First Book," 
and will be found especially valuable to those who desire 
an introduction to the subject, and who intend to do subse- 
quent reading. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 265 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $1.00 

The Study of Corn 

By Prof. V. M. Shoesmith. A most helpful book to all 
farmers and students interested in the selection and im- 
provement of corn. It is profusely illustrated from photo- 
graphs, all of which carry their own story and contribute 
their part in making pictures and text matter a clear, con- 
cise and interesting study of corn. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 
100 pages. Cloth Net, $0.50 

(1) 



The Management and Feeding of Cattle 

By Prof. Thomas Shaw. The place for this book will 
be at once apparent when it is stated that it is the first 
book that has ever been written which discusses the man- 
agement and feeding of cattle, from the birth of the calf 
until it has fulfilled its mission in life, whether on the 
block or at the pail. The book is handsomely printed on 
fine paper, from large, clear type. Fully illustrated. 55^x8 
inches. 496 pages. Cloth Net, $2.00 

The Farmer's Veterinarian 

By Charles William Burkett. This book abounds in 
helpful suggestions and valuable information for the most 
successful treatment of ills and accidents, and disease 
troubles. A practical treatise on the diseases of farm 
stock; containing brief and popular advice on the nature, 
cause and treatment of disease, the common ailments and 
the care and management of stock when sick. It is 
profusely illustrated, containing a number of halftone 
illustrations, and a great many drawings picturing diseases, 
their symptoms and familiar attitudes assumed by farm 
animals when affected with disease, and presents, for the 
first time, a plain, practical and satisfactory guide for 
farmers who are interested in the common diseases of the 
farm. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 288 pages. Cloth. Net, $1.50. 

First Lessons in Dairying 

By Hubert E. Van Norman. This splendid little book 
has been written from a practical point of view, to fill 
a place in dairy literature long needed. It is designed 
primarily as a practical guide to successful dairying, an 
elementary text-book for colleges and for use especially 
in short-course classes. It embodies underlying principles 
involved in the handling of milk, delivery to factory, ship- 
ping station, and the manufacture of butter on the farm. 
It is written in a simple, popular way, being free from tech- 
nical terms, and is easily understood by the average farm 
boy. The book is just the thing for the every-day dairy- 
man, and should be in the hands of every farmer in the 
country. Illustrated. Sx7 inches. 100 pages. Cloth. Net, $0.50. 

A Dairy Laboratory Guide 

By H. E. Ross. While the book is intended primarily 
for use in the laboratory, it should be of value to the 
practical dairyman. The time has come when the suc- 
cessful dairyman must study his business from a purely 
scientific point of view, and in this book the scientific 
principles, upon which dairy industry is based, are stated 
clearly and simply, and wherever it is possible, these prin- 
ciples are illustrated by practical problems and examples. 
90 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth Net, $0.50 

(2) 



Profitable Stock Raising 

By Clarence A. Shamel. This book covers fully the 
principles of breeding and feeding for both fat stock and 
dairying type. It tells of sheep and mutton raising, hot 
house lambs, the swine industry and the horse market. 
Finally, he tells of the preparation of stock for the market 
and how to prepare it so that it will bring a high market 
price. Live stock is the most important feature of farm 
life, and statistics show a production far short of the 
actual requirements. There are many problems to be 
faced in the profitable production of stock, and these are 
fully and comprehensively covered in Mr. Shamel's new 
book. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 288 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $1.50 

The Business of Dairying 

By C. B. Lane. The author of this practical little book 
is to be congratulated on the successful manner in which 
he has treated so important a subject. It has been pre- 
pared for the use of dairy students, producers and handlers 
of milk, and all who make dairying a business. Its pur- 
pose is to present in a clear and concise manner various 
business methods and systems which will help the dairy- 
man to reap greater profits. This book meets the needs 
of the average dairy farmer, and if carefully followed will 
lead to successful dairying. It may also be used as an 
elementary textbook for colleges, and especially in short- 
course classes. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 300 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $1.25 

Questions and Answers on Buttermaking 

By Chas a. Publow. This book is entirely different 
from the usual type of dairy books, and is undoubtedly in 
a class by itself. The entire subject of butter-making in 
all its branches has been most thoroughly treated, and 
many new and important features have been added. The 
tests for moisture, salt and acid have received special 
attention, as have also the questions on cream separa- 
tion, pasteurization, commercial starters, cream ripening, 
cream overrun, marketing of butter, and creamery man- 
agement. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 100 pages. Cloth. 

Net, $0.50 

Questions and Answers on Milk and Milk Testing 

By Chas. A. Publow, and Hugh C. Troy. A book that 
no student in the dairy industry can afford to be without. 
No other treatise of its kind is available, and no book of 
its size gives so much practical and useful information in 
the study of milk and milk products. Illustrated. 5x7 
inches. 100 pages. Cloth. Net, $0.50 

(3) 



Soils 

By Charles William Burkett, Director Kansas Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station. The most complete and 
popular work of the kind ever published. As a rule, a 
book of this sort is dry and uninteresting, but in this case 
it reads like a novel. The author has put into it his in- 
dividuality. The story of the properties of the soils, their 
improvement and management, as well as a discussion of 
the problems of crop growing and crop feeding, make this 
book equally valuable to the farmer, student and teacher. 
Illustrated. 303 pages. SyixS inches. Cloth. . Net, $1.25 

Weeds of the Farm Garden 

By L. H. Pammel. The enormous losses, amounting 
to several hundred million dollars annually in the United 
States, caused by weeds stimulate us to adopt a better 
system of agriculture. The weed question is, therefore 
a most important and vital one for American farmers 
This treatise will enable the farmer to treat his field to 
remove weeds. The book is profusely illustrated by photo- 
graphs and drawings made expressly for this work, arid 
will prove invaluable to every farmer, land owner, gar- 
dener and park superintendent. 5x7 inches. 300 pages. 
Cloth Net, $1.50 

Farm Machinery and Farm Motors 

By J. B. Davidson and L. W. Chase. Farm Machinery 
and Farm Motors is the first American book published 
on the subject of Farm Machinery since that written by 
J. J. Thomas in 1867. This was before the development 
of many of the more important farm machines, and the 
general application of power to the work of the farm. 
Modern farm machinery is indispensable in present-day 
farming operations, and a practical book like Farm Ma- 
chinery and Farm Motors will fill a much-felt need. The 
book has been written from lectures used by the authors 
before their classes for several years, and which were pre- 
pared from practical experience and a thorough review of 
the literature pertaining to the subject. Although written 
primarily as a text-book, it is equally useful for the prac- 
tical farmer. Profusely illustrated. sJ4x8 inches. 520 
pages. Cloth Net, $2.00 

The Book of Wheat 

By P. T. DoNDLiNGER. This book comprises a complete 
study of everything pertaining to wheat. It is the work 
of a student of economic as well as agricultural condi- 
tions, well fitted by the broad experience in both practical 
and theoretical lines to tell the whole story in a condensed 
form. It is designed for the farmer, the teacher, and the 
student as well. Illustrated. 5)^^x8 inches. 370 pages. 
Cloth. . Net, $2.00 

(4) 



The Cereals in America 

By Thomas F. Hunt, M.S., D.Agri., Professor of Agron- 
omy, Cornell University. If you raise five acres of any kind 
of grain you cannot afford to be without this book. It is in 
every way the best book on the subject that has ever been 
written. It treats of the cultivation and improvement of every 
grain crop raised in America in a thoroughly practical and 
accurate manner. The subject-matter includes a comprehen- 
sive and succinct treatise of wheat, maize, oats, barley, rye, 
rice, sorghum (kafir corn) and buckwheat, as related particu- 
larly to American conditions. First-hand knowledge has been 
the policy of the author in his work, and every crop treated is 
presented in the light of individual study of the plant. If you 
have this book you have the latest and best that has been 
written upon the subject. Illustrated. 450 pages. 5^ x 8 
inches. Cloth $I7S 

The Forage and Fiber Crops in America 

By Thomas F. Hun't. This book is exactly what its title 
indicates. It is indispensable to the farmer, student and 
teacher who wishes all the latest and most important informa- 
tion on the subject of forage and fiber crops. Like its famous 
companion, "The Cereals in America," by the same author, it 
treats of the cultivation and improvement of every one of the 
forage and fiber crops. With this book in hand, you have 
the latest and most up-to-date information available. Illus- 
trated. 428 pages. Sj4x8 inches. Cloth $i-75 

The Book of Alfalfa 

History, Cultivation and Merits. Its Uses as a Forage 
and Fertilizer. The appearance of the Hon. F. D. Coburn's 
little book on Alfalfa a few years ago has been a profit revela- 
tion to thousands of farmers throughout the country, and the 
increasing demand for still more information on the subject 
has induced the author to prepare the present volume, which 
is by far the most authoritative, complete and valuable work 
on this forage crop published anywhere. It is printed on fine 
paper and illustrated with many full-page photographs that 
were taken with the especial view of their relation to the text. 
336 pages. 6!^ X 9 inches. Bound in cloth, with gold stamp- 
ing. It is unquestionably the handsomest agricultural refer- 
ence book that has ever been issued. Price, postpaid, . $2.00 

Clean Milk 

By S. D. Belcher, M.D. In this book the author sets forth 
practical methods for the exclusion of bacteria from milk, 
and how to prevent contamination of milk from the stable 
to the consumer. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. 146 pages. 

Cloth $100 

(5) 



Bean Culture 

By Glenn C. Sevey, B.S. A practical treatise on the pro- 
duction and marketing of beans. It includes the manner of 
growth, soils and fertilizers adapted, best varieties, seed selec- 
tion and breeding, planting, harvesting, insects and fungous 
pests, composition and feeding value; with a special chapter 
on markets by Albert W. Fulton. A practical book for the 
grower and student alike. Illustrated. 144 pages. 5x7 
inches. Cloth $050 

Celery Culture 

By W. R. Beattie. A practical guide for beginners and a 
standard reference of great interest to persons already en- 
gaged in celery growing. It contains many illustrations giving 
a clear conception of the practical side of celery culture. The 
work is complete in every detail, from sowing a few seeds in 
a window-box in the house for early plants, to the handling 
and marketing of celery in carload lots. Fully illustrated. 
150 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

Tomato Culture 

By Will W. Tracy. The author has rounded up in this 
book the most complete account of tomato culture in all its 
phases that has ever been gotten together. It is no secom'- 
hand work of reference, but a complete story of the practice 
experiences of the best-postfd expert on tomatoes in the 
world. No gardener or farmer can afford to be without the 
book. Whether grown for home use or commercial purposes, 
the reader has here suggestions and information nowhere else 
available. Illustrated. 150 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. $0.50 

The Potato 

By Samuel Fraser. This book is destined to rank as a 
standard work upon Potato Culture. While the practical side 
has been emphasized, the scientific part has not been neglected, 
and the information given is of value, both to the grower and 
to the student. Taken all in all, it is the most complete, reliable 
and authoritative book on the potato ever published in Amer- 
ica. Illustrated. 200 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. . . $0.75 

Dwarf Fruit Trees 

By F. A. Waugh. This interesting book describes in detail 
the_ several varieties of dwarf fruit trees, their propagation, 
planting, pruning, care and general management. Where 
there is a limited amount of ground to be devoted to orchard 
purposes, and where quick results are desired, this book will 
meet with a warm welcome. Illustrated. 112 pages. 5x7 
inches. Cloth $0.50 

(6) 



Cabbage, Cauliflower and Allied Vegetables 

By C. L. Allen. A practical treatise on the various 
types and varieties of cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels 
sprouts, kale, collards and kohl-rabi. An explanation is given 
of the requirements, conditions, cultivation ahd general man- 
agement pertaining to the entire cabbage group. After this 
each class is treated separately and in detail. The chapter 
on seed raising is probably the most authoritative treatise on 
this subject ever published. Insects and fungi attacking this 
class of vegetables are given due attention. Illustrated. 126 
pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 



Asparagus 

By F. M. Hexamer. This is the first book published in 
America which is exclusively devoted to the raising of aspara- 
gus for home use as well as for market. It is a practio?-" 
and reliable treatise on the saving of the seed, raising of the 
plants, selection and preparation of the soil, planting, cultiva- 
tion, manuring, cutting, bunching, packing, marketing, canning 
and drying, insect enemies, fungous diseases and every re- 
quirement to successful asparagus culture, special emphasis be- 
ing given to the importance of asparagus as a farm and money 
crop. Illustrated. 174 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. . $0.50 



The New Onion Culture 

By T. Greiner. Rewritten, greatly enlarged and brought 
up to date. A new method of growing onions of largest size 
and yield, on less land, than can be raised By the old plan. 
Thousands of farmers and gardeners and many experiment 
stations have given it practical trials which have proved a 
success. A complete guide in growing onions with the great- 
est profit, explaining the whys and wherefores. Illustrated. 
5x7 inches. 140 pages. Cloth $0.50 



The New Rhubarb Culture 

A complete guide to dark forcing and field culture. Part 
I — By J. E. Morse, the well-known Michigan trucker and 
originator of the now famous and extremely profitable new 
methods of dark forcing and field culture. Part II — Com- 
piled by G. B. FiSKE. Other methods practiced by the most 
experienced market gardeners, greenhouse men and experi- 
menters in all parts of America. Illustrated. 130 pages. 
5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

(7) 



Alfalfa 

By F. D. CoBURN. Its growth, uses, and feeding value. 
The fact that alfalfa thrives in almost any soil; that without 
reseeding, it goes on yielding two, three, four, and sometimes 
five cuttings annually for five, ten, or perhaps loo years ; and 
that either green or cured it is one of the most nutritious 
forage plants known, makes reliable information upon its pro- 
duction and uses of unusual interest. Such information is 
given in this volume for every part of America, by the highest 
authority. Illustrated. 164 pages. 4x7 inches. Cloth. $0.50 

Ginseng, Its Cultivation, Harvesting, Marketing 
and Market Value 

By Maurice G. Kains, with a short account of its history 
and botany. It discusses in a practical way how to begin with 
either seeds or roots, soil, climate and location, preparation 
planting and maintenance of the beds, artificial propagation, 
manures, enemies, selection for market and for improvement, 
preparation for sale, and the profits that may be expected. 
This booklet is concisely written, well and profusely illus- 
trated, and should be in the hands of all who expect to grow 
this drug to supply the export trade, and to add a new and 
profitable industry to their farms and gardens, without inter- 
fering with the regular work. New edition. Revised and en- 
larged. Illustrated. 5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

Landscape Gardening 

By F. A. Waugh, professor of horticulture, university of 
Vermont. A treatise ' on the general principles governing 
outdoor art; with sundry suggestions for their application 
in the commoner problems of gardening. Every paragraph is 
short, terse and to the point, giving perfect clearness to the 
discussions at all points. In spite of the natural difficulty 
of presenting abstract principles the whole matter is made 
entirely plain even to the inexperienced reader. Illustrated. 
152 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth. .... . $0.50 

Hedges, Windbreaks, Shelters and Live Fences 

By E. P. Powell. A treatise on the planting, growth 
and management of hedge plants for country and suburban 
homes. It gives accurate directions concerning hedges; how 
to plant and how to treat them; and especially concerning 
windbreaks and shelters. It includes the whole art of making 
a delightful home, giving directions for nooks and balconies, 
for bird culture and for human comfort. Illustrated, 140 
pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

(8) 



Farm Grasses of the United States of America 

By William Jasper Spillman. A practical treatise on 
the grass crop, seeding and management of meadows and 
pastures, description of the best varieties, the seed and its 
impurities, grasses for special conditions, lawns and lawn 
grasses, etc., etc. In preparing this volume the author's object 
has been to present, in connected form, the main facts con- 
cerning the grasses grown on American farms. Every phase 
of the subject is viewed from the farmer's standpoint. Illus- 
trated. 248 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1.00 

The Book of Corn 

By Herbert Myrick, assisted by A. D. Shambia, E. A. 
Burnett, Albert W. Fulton, B. W. Snow, and other most 
capable specialists. "A complete treatise on the culture, mar- 
keting and uses of maize in America and elsewhere for 
farmers, dealers and others. Illustrated. 372 pages. 5x7 
inches. Cloth $1.50 



The Hop — Its Culture and Care, Marketing and 
Manufacture 

By Herbert Myrick. A practical handbook on the most 
approved methods in growing, harvesting, curing and. selling 
hops, and on the use and manufacture of hops. The result o£ 
years of research and observation, it is a volume destined to 
be an authority on this crop for many years to come. It takes 
up every detail from preparing the soil and laying out the 
yard, to curing and selling the crop. Every line represents the 
ripest judgment and experience of experts. Size, 5x8; 
pages, 300; illustrations, nearly 150; bound in cloth and gold; 
price, postpaid. $1.50 

Tobacco Leaf 

By J. B. Killebrew and Herbert Myrick. Its Culture and 
Cure, Marketing and Manufacture. A practical handbook 
on the most approved methods in growing, harvesting, curing, 
packing and selling tobacco, with an account of the opera- 
tions in every department of tobacco manufacture. The 
contents of this book are based on actual experiments in field, 
curing barn, packing house, factory and laboratory. It is the 
only work of the kind in existence, and is destined to be the 
standard practical and scietitific authority on the whole sub- 
ject of tobacco for many years. 506 pages and 150 original 
engravings. 5x7 inches. Cloth $2.00 

(9) 



Bulbs and Tuberous-Rooted Plants 

By C. L. Allen. A complete treatise on the history, 
description, methods of propagation and full directions for 
the successful culture of bulbs in the garden, dwelling and 
greenhouse. The author of this book has for many years 
made bulb growing a specialty, and is a recognized authority 
on their cultivation and management. The cultural direc- 
tions are plainly stated, practical and to the point. The 
illustrations which embellish this work have been drawn 
from nature and have been engraved especially for this 
book. 312 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1.50 

Fumigation Methods 

By Willis G. Johnson. A timely up-to-date book on 
the practical application of the new methods for destroying 
insects with hydrocyanic acid gas and carbon bisulphid, the 
most powerful insecticides ever discovered. It is an indis- 
pensable book for farmers, fruit growers, nurserymen, 
gardeners, florists, millers, grain dealers, transportation com- 
panies, college and experiment station workers, etc. Illus- 
trated. 313 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1.00 

Diseases of Swine 

By Dr. R. A. Craig, Professor of Veterinary Medicine at 
the Purdue University, A concise, practical and popular guide 
to the prevention and treatment of the diseases of swine. With 
the discussions on each disease are given its causes, symptoms, 
treatment and means of prevention. Every part of the book 
impresses the reader with the fact that its writer is thor- 
oughly and practically familiar with all the details upon which 
he treats. All technical and strictly scientific terms are 
avoided, so far as feasible, thus making the work at once 
available to the practical stock raiser as well as to the teacher 
and student. Illustrated. 5x7 inches, igo pages. Cloth. $0.75 

Spraying Crops — Why, When and How 

By Clarence M. Weed, D.Sc. The present fourth edition 
has been rewritten and set throughout to bring it thoroughly 
up to date, so that it embodies the latest practical information 
gleaned by fruit growers and experiment station workers. So 
much new information has come to light since the third edi- 
tion was published that this is practically a new book, needed 
by those who have utilized the earlier editions, as well as by 
fruit growers and farmers generally. Illustrated. 136 pages. 
5x7 inches. Cloth $0.50 

(10) 



Successful Fruit Culture 

By Samuel T. Maynard. A practical guide to the culti- 
vation and propagation of Fruits, written from the standpoint 
of the practical fruit grower who is striving to make his 
business profitable by growing the best fruit possible and at 
the least cost. It is up-to-date in every particular, and covers 
the entire practice of fruit culture, harvesting, storing, mar- 
keting, forcing, best varieties, etc., etc. 'It deals with principles 
first and with the practice afterwards, as the foundation, prin- 
ciples of plant growth and nourishment must always remain 
the same, while practice will vary according to the fruit 
grower's immediate conditions and environments. Illustrated. 
265 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1.00 

Plums and Plum Culture 

By F. A. Waugh. A complete manual for fruit growers, 
nurserymen, farmers and gardeners, on all known varieties 
of plums and their successful management. This book marks 
an epoch in the horticultural literature of America. It is a 
complete monograph of the plums cultivated in and indigenous 
to North America. It will be found indispensable to the 
scientist seeking the most recent and authoritative informa- 
tion concerning this group, to the nurseryman who wishes to 
handle his varieties accurately and intelligently, and to the 
cultivator who would like to grow plums successfully. Illus- 
trated. 391 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1-50 

Fruit Harvesting, Storing, Marketing 

By F. A. Waugh. A practical guide to the picking, stor- 
ing, shipping and marketing of fruit. The principal subjects 
covered are the fruit market, fruit picking, sorting and pack- 
ing, the fruit storage, evaporation, canning, statistics of the 
fruit trade, fruit package laws, commission dealers and deal- 
ing, cold storage, etc., etc. Nq progressive fruit grower can 
afford to be without this most valuable book. Illustrated. 
232 pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1.00 

Systematic Pomology 

By F. A. Waugh, professor of horticulture and landscape 
gardening in the Massachusetts agricultural college, formerly 
of the university of Vermont. This is the first book in the 
English language which has ever made the attempt at a com- 
plete and comprehensive treatment of systematic pomology. 
It presents clearly and in detail the whole method by which 
fruits are studied. The book is suitably illustrated. 288 
pages. 5x7 inches. Cloth $1.00 

(11) 



