Ceresota 
Flour 



works for your benefit whichever way you try it, 
whether for Bread or Biscuits. 

IF to produce the greatest quantity from an equal 
amount, then get CERESOTA. 

IF to produce the finest quality for comparative 
price, then get CERESOTA. 

IF to economize, retaining its nutty freshness 
longest, then get CERESOTA. 

Think of any argument you like — 
you can't argue against Results 




The Club Woman's 

Cook Book 




A collection of tested receipts 
compiled and published 

BY 

The Ramblers Club 

Minneapolis, Minn. 
1911 



-' 



Copyright 1911 by 

Mrs. Thos. F. Quinby 

Minneapolis, Minn. 



->/ 



e 



©CI. A 292033 




Preface 

There is an old saying, "The way to a man's heart is 
through his stomach." 

So we have in this little book endeavored to give you 
the simplest and best menus of reaching it. Although the 
book is small the receipts are choice. The Committee wishes 
you success in your attempts in reproducing them: 

Mrs. T. F. Ouinby, 
Mrs. W. A. Mather, ' Mrs. J. F. Willis, 

Mrs C. H. Burwell, Mrs. H. L. Wakefield, 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 



'Of a good beginning comet h a good end" 



Soups 



Now, good digestion, wait on appetite and health 
on both. — Shakespeare 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

(a) One bunch or one can asparagus, one quart hot 
water. 

(b) One tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful 
flour; add to two cups hot milk, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, blade of mace. 

(c) One egg, one cup hot thin cream, asparagus 
tips. 

Add (a to b) when boiling; add (c) and serve. 

—Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

ALMOND SOUP WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

1 cup blanched almonds, 1 quart thin cream, 1 cup 
whipped cream. 

To one cup blanched almonds chopped fine, add one 
quart of thin cream and let simmer five minutes. Thick- 
en a very little, add salt and a little white pepper and 
strain ; pour over this a cup of whipped cream and beat 
all until foamy ; serve very hot in heated cups with hot 
wafers. — Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

CROUTONS. 

Butter bread, sliced y> inch thick and cut in squares. 
Brown in oven. Serve hot. 

9 



BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

One cup of black beans, soaked over night; drain, 
put in kettle with cold water to cover (about three 
pints), one onion, 1 ounce fat meat, two teaspoonfuls 
salt, one clove and a dash of pepper. Cook until beans 
are soft enough to press through sieve(about three hours) 
add water or stock as it boils away. Slice two hard 
boiled eggs and one lemon, put in tureen and pour the 
hot soup over them. — T. F. Ouinby. 

CORN SOUP. 

Twelve ears of sweet corn, well developed. After 
grating pour one pint of boiling water over the corn cobs. 
Scrape each cob with the back of a silver knife to re- 
move the sweet germ. Add to this liquid the grated 
corn and salt to taste. Cook slowly for fifteen minutes, 
stirring constantly to prevent burning. Put the mixture 
in a double boiler. Add about one quart of milk or 
enough to thin it to the consistency of cream soup. 
Before serving add one-fourth cup of butter and season 
with salt and pepper to taste. A tablespoonful of whip- 
ped cream may be added to each plateful. 

—Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

(a) One onion sliced, saute with one cup raw ham, 
one can corn, one cup raw potato dice, one quart boil- 
ing water. 

(b) One tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful 
flour, one pint hot milk, half teaspoonful salt, two drops 
Tabasco sauce. 

(c) Six crackers rolled. 

Cook (a) one-half hour, add (b) ; when boiling add 
(c) and serve. — Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

10 



CELERY SOUP. 

Cover one cup of chopped celery with boiling water, 
cook until tender and add one quart of milk, when this 
boils, stir in two teaspoonfuls corn starch dissolved in 
a little milk or water, season with salt, pepper and but- 
ter. When served, add one teaspoonful of whipped 
cream to each cup. — W. B. MacLean, 

FRENCH SOUP. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 
chopped onion (small). 

Cook the above together until the flour browns, then 
add two cups tomato and cook ten minutes longer. 
Strain and add to one and one-half quarts beef stock. 
Season with salt, pepper and celery salt. 

— Mrs. A. A. George. 

MUSHROOM SOUP. 

Clean and chop one-half pound mushrooms, add one 
quart chicken stock ; cook twenty minutes. Cook one- 
fourth cup of pearl sago in one cup boiling water thirty 
minutes, add to stock; as soon as boiling point is reached 
add one cup of rich, sweet cream and beaten yolks of 
two eggs. Heat up and serve. 

—Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

NORWEGIAN SWEET SOUP. 

One pint cranberries, stewed and strained, one-half 
cup sago cooked until clear, one cup seedless raisins 
cooked alone. Put all together and sweeten to taste. 
Flavor with wine or the juice of one lemon. Decorate 
with beaten white of egg in spoonfuls. 

— W. B. MacLean. 

11 



CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

One can of peas, one pint cold water, one pint hot 
water, one quart hot milk, two tablespoonfuls flour, one 
teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, sprig of par- 
sley, dash of pepper, two tablespoonfuls butter. Drain 
one can of peas, add the cold water, salt, sugar and 
parsley; cook twenty minutes, remove the parsley and 
press through a sieve, cream the butter and flour, add 
the hot milk and hot water, stirring constantly until 
smooth, add the peas and serve hot, strain before serv- 
ing. — Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

PEA SOUP. 

Can of peas, boil with small onion, when onion is 
cooked, strain through fruit press, add 1 tablespoonful 
melted butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 quart milk, rice if 
desired. Salt to taste. — Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 

QUICK POTATO SOUP. 

2 potatoes, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoonful tapioca, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

Slice potatoes very thin, cover with hot water, add 
a little salt and cook quickly. When tender, mash quick- 
ly and add the milk, let boil up, season with butter, pep- 
per and salt, and serve in hot cups. A spoonful of 
whipped cream on top of each cup. 

— Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

NOODLES. 

Beat an egg light, and add as much flour as can 
be kneaded into it. Roll out thin as wafer, let dry 
roll and cut into strips. Drop into boiling soup. 

—Mrs. C. J. Hedwall. 

12 



SWISS SOUP. 

\ l / 2 quarts of chicken stock, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoonful flour, % cup of milk. 

Beat the eggs, flour and milk until smooth. Add 
slowly to the stock which has been heated boiling hot. 
Avoid a second boiling. Season and serve at once with 
one tablespoonful of whipped cream. 

— Mrs. A. A. George. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 quart can tomatoes, 1 pint water, 12 pepper corns, 
1 bay leaf, 4 cloves, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 slice onion, 
}i teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cook first seven ingredients twenty minutes, strain, 
add salt and soda. Mix butter and flour smooth, add to 
hot soup, boil five minutes, strain and serve. 

— Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 



ZWIEBACK. 

ler light br 
and brown in a moderate oven. 



Cut bakers or other light bread into one inch slices 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 can tomatoes, }4 tsp. soda, 1-3 cup butter, 1-3 cup 
flour, : ;4 tsp. salt, y 2 tsp. white pepper, 1 qt. milk (scald- 
ed). Stew the tomatoes slowly for y 2 to \ hour, strain, 
add soda while hot. Make a white sauce, heat the butter 
until it foams , add the flour, salt and pepper and stir 
smooth', then add the hot milk slowly, stirring constantly. 
Add the hot tomato juice to the white sauce and serve im- 
mediately. 

13 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One small soup bone, or one pound of "ribs of beef," 
two large potatoes, one-half small cabbage, one parsnip, 
two small carrots, two medium onions, one small ruta- 
baga, salt, bay leaf, pepper. Put the meat on early to 
boil in cold water. In an hour and a half add the cab- 
bage chopped fine, also the onion and rutabaga and po- 
tato. In a separate kettle boil the parsnip and carrots 
half an hour. Drain, chop fine and add to the meat and 
other vegetables, cook until all the vegetables are well 
done, season and serve. — Mrs. Lockerby. 

CONSOMME. 

3 lbs. of lower part of round , 3 lbs. knuckle of veal , 1 
qt. chicken stock, 1-3 cup carrot, 1-3 cup turnip, 1-3 cup 
celery , 1-3 cup sliced onion , 2 tbsp. butter, or beef drip- 
pings , 1 tbsp. butter , 1 tbsp. pepper corns , 4 cloves , 3 
sprigs thyme, 1 sprig marjoram, 2 sprigs parsley, }4 bay 
leaf, 3 qts. cold water. Cut the beef in small cubes, and 
brown T /2 in some of the marrow from the bone, or in beef 
drippings , put into a kettle with cold water and remaining 
beef; add the veal cut in cubes and the bones (cracked) and 
soak for 1 hour. Heat slowly and let simmer 3 hours or 
longer. Cool and remove the fat which has formed a coat- 
ing over the top of stock. Cook the carrot, turnip, onion 
and celery in butter or beef drippings 5 minutes ; then add 
to the stock with seasonings and chicken stock. Cook 2 
hours longer, strain and clarify. To 1 qt. of stock, add the 
white of 1 egg beaten slightly and the crushed shell. Boil 
2 minutes and cook gently 20 minutes. Remove the scum 
and strain through muslin. Add additional seasonings if 
desired, reheat and serve. Carrots, string beans, peas, 
spaghetti or macaroni cooked and cut in rings may be used 
as a garnish in consomme. The stock may be made the day 
before using. 

14 



VEAL SOUP (EXCELLENT). 

Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of cold water, 
adding a small tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Boil 
slowly, hardly above simmering, four hours, when the 
liquor should be reduced one-half. Into a warm dish 
put one teacup of cream into which has been stirred the 
yolk of an egg. Add a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, on this strain the soup boiling hot, stirring all 
the time ; beat well for a minute. Whipped cream or a 
spoonful of cooked egg white and a small quantity of 
parsley may be put on top of each serving. 

—Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

1/^2 cups cabbage, cut coarse, 1 chopped onion, 1 
grated carrot, 1 diced potato. 1 cup strained tomatoes, 
4 stalks celery cut fine, salt and pepper. 

Put into 4 quarts of water and cook slowly 3 or 4 
hours. — Mrs. A. A. George. 

A THICKENING FOR SOUP. 

Take an egg, beat it a little, put in bowl with a little 
flour , mix, rubbing together between the palms until it forms 
little crumbs. The amount of flour depends upon size of 
egg. Drop into boiling soup and boil a few minutes before 
serving. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt. of milk , 1 tbsp. flour , y 2 can of tomato soup , l / 2 
cup boiling water , ]/ 2 tsp. of soda. Butter and salt to 
taste. Heat milk to a boiling point, then stir in flour that 
has been wet and stirred smooth. Add tomatoes, then 
socla that has been dissolved in a cup of boiling hot water. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Palmer. 
15 



Fish 



From the rude sea's enraged and foaming mouth. 
— Shakcspea re 



STUFFED FISH. 

1 cup bread crumbs , 1 tbsp. butter. Melt the butter 
and stir in the crumbs. Sprinkle the inside of the fish 
with a layer of crumbs then a layer of oysters, salt and 
pepper. Cover with crumbs. Put slices of salt pork in 
baking pan. Cook in moderately slow oven until it 
flakes or about y* hour. Mrs. Fred Darling. 

SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Bone thoroughly 1 can salmon, break up good, take 
6 or 8 crackers and add melted butter , juice of y 2 lemon , 
1 to 2 eggs, salt and pepper, chopped parsley. Add 
liquid, beat and mix thoroughly, butter generously. 
Press mixture in mould and steam one hour and leave 
uncovered the last 15 minutes. Season quite highly. 
Serve with cream gravy and peas. Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

STUFFFED PIKE. 

Clean the fish and leave head on. Rub salt inside and 
fill with the following stuffing: 1 cup cracker or bread 
crumbs, 1 stsp. salt, 1 stsp. pepper, 1 tsp. chopped onion, 
1 tsp. chopped capers, 1 tsp. chopped parsley, 1 tsp. 
chopped pickle, % cup melted butter. Mix, stuff and 
sew up fish. Put a couple of slices of bacon on the out- 
side. Bake until tender with a little water in pan. Any 
fish may be substituted. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

16 



OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, 2 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 
tbsp. vinegar, 1 tbsp. horse radish, 1 tbsp. catsup or 
chili sauce, y^ tsp. salt, 4 or 5 drops tobasco sauce. 
Strain, add to the oysters, and serve very cold. 

Mrs. A. F. Daggett. 

CRAB COCKTAIL. 

1 can Izumi Crab Meat, pick it up well, removing any 
small pieces of shell , 1 green pepper, remove seeds and 
soak in salt and water for 1 hour, then chop fine, 1^ 
pimentos, 1 red pepper chopped, 3 tbsp. made horseradish , 
3 tbsp. lemon juice, 3 tbsp. vinegar, 2 tbsp. olive oil, 
]/2 tsp. paprika , ^ tsp. dry mustard , 1 stsp. salt. This 
will serve 8 in high sherbet glasses, garnish with sprigs 
of parsley and sliced pimentos. Mrs. Walter I. Fisher. 

PLANKED SHAD OR WHITEFISH. 

Use only hardwood plank. Maple or oak best. Plank 
should be 3 inches thick, 2 feet long and 1^ feet wide. 
Get plank very hot, otherwise imparts woody flavor. 
Wipe fish with cloth wrung out of cold water and dry. 
Lay fish open, dredge with salt and pepper and dots of but- 
ter. Cook 25 minutes before a clear fire or else in a very hot 
oven. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

SHRIMP A LA NEWBURG. 

1 large can shrimps, washed and picked up. Make a 
rich thickened cream sauce of 1 pt. of milk, season with 
salt and paprika. When cooked add the shrimps and 1 
wine glass of sherry wine. Put in buttered fish shells, 
cover with browned buttered crumbs and bake 10 min- 
utes. Place shells on sprigs of watercress and serve at 
once. This amount serves 8. Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

17 



FISH CHOWDER. 

Into the bottom of a kettle put some pieces of fat salt 
pork. Try out and remove the scraps. Place a layer 
of fish cut in good sized pieces, a layer of raw potatoes 
peeled and sliced about j4 inch thick ; a layer of onions 
peeled and sliced about the same; a layer of old fash- 
ioned Boston soda crackers split; pepper and salt. Then 
a layer of fish and so on until all is used. Pour on just 
enough water or milk to come to the top when the 
mass is pressed down. Cook until the onions are done. 
Do not stir. Then add milk to cover well and a good 
sized piece of butter. Then serve. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Use fresh little neck clams. 2 qts. clams , 3 slices of 
pork chopped fine and fry until brown , 3 qts. potatoes 
sliced , 1 pt. of onions chopped very fine. Put pork and 
fat, potatoes and onions in a kettle and cover with cold 
water and cook until thoroughly done. Cover clams and 
juice with boiling water and let stand on fire 2 minutes. 
Then take clams from juice and chop fine. Then add 
clams and juice to vegetables ; let stand on the back of 
range until you are ready to serve it. Pinch cayenne 
pepper. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

LUTFISK. (Codfish Dry.) 

To prepare the dried fish put in clear water for two days. 
Pour off water and then let remain in weak lime water for 
two days. Then in fresh water two days longer. Now make 
a strong lye , put fish in it for two days , pour off and put 
in fresh water. Changing this latter several times. To 
serve wrap fish in muslin and boil gently about 15 or 20 
minutes. Drain. Serve with a white sauce adding 1 or 2 
chopped hard boiled eggs. Serve with boiled potatoes. 

18 



SALMON SOUFFLE. 

3 tbsp. butter , 3 tbsp. flour , -/ 4 cup milk , 3 eggs , l / 2 tsp. 
salt, cayenne, 1 cup flaked salmon. Put the butter into a 
sauce pan. and when hot, add the flour and stir until 
smooth; add milk and seasonings. Cook 2 minutes. Re- 
move from fire and add the well-beaten yolks and the salm- 
on. Set away to cool. When cold , add the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and 
bake 20 to 25 minutes. Serve the moment it comes from 
the oven. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Serve oysters on the deep halves of the shells, allowing 
6 to each person. Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with 
*4 of a lemon in the center of each plate. 

NOTE: Open the oysters with a thin flat knife and re- 
move the smaller or right valve of the shell, leaving the 
oyster in the large half. 

DINNER. 

Oysters on the Half Shell 

Olives Celery Salted Almonds 

Consomme 

Lobster Cutlets 

Fillet of Beef with Mushroom Sauce 

Duchess Potatoes Broiled Tomatoes. 

Sweetheart Patties 

Fruit Salad 

Crackers Cheese 

Cakes Bonbons 

Cafe Noir 

Bomb Glacee 

or Ginger Ice Cream 

19 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

1 pt. chopped lobster meat , few grains cayenne , *4 tsp. 
salt , y<\. tsp. mustard. 

SAUCE. 

2 tbsp. butter , Y\ tsp. salt , *4 cup flour , few grains white 
pepper , 1 cup milk or cream ; add the salt, mustard and 
cayenne to the chopped lobster, add the sauce and spread 
the mixture on a plate. When cold shape into cutlets. Roll 
the cutlets in dry bread crumbs , then in beaten egg, and 
again in bread crumbs. Cook in deep fat until brown. 
Garnish with a claw in the end of each cutlet. 



Sauces 



TOMATO SAUCE (WITH FISH). 

Slice 1 onion, put in dish with tbsp. butter and tbsp. 
flour. Brown on stove. Pour in 1 qt. of tomatoes 
(strained) and boil a few minutes. Strain all through 
colander and cook until thickened. Miss G. I. Chase. 

LEMON SAUCE (TO SERVE WITH LAMB). 

Juice of 1 lemon, add butter size of walnut, dash of 
cayenne pepper , add four leaves of mint chopped. Heat 
and pour over meat when it is served. Miss G. I. Chase. 

ORANGE AND MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB. 

Quarter 3 oranges and cut in small pieces. Add the 
juice of 1 lemon. Boil J / 2 cup sugar with a little water 
until it threads slightly. Add 4 leaves of mint chopped. 
Prepare in the morning and set on ice until time to 
serve. Serve in sherbet glasses. Miss G. I. Chase. 

20 



SAUCE TARTARE. 

Chop line 1 tsp. capers, 3 olives, 2 gherkins. Season 
quite highly with onion juice. Put in dressing made of 
1 yolk egg, 2 tbsp. of either olive oil, peanut oil or 
melted butter. Season with salt and red pepper. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

SAUCE FOR FISH. 

1 pt. boiling water, 1-3 or J / 2 cup butter, 34 cup flour, 
Y tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar, cayenne, 1 
tbsp. chopped parsley. Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 

MINT AND ORANGE TO SERVE WITH LAMB. 
Yl orange to person , 1 tbsp. sugar to an orange. Pull 
sections apart and cut each section in half then sprinkle 
well with chopped mint. Put sugar over mint then put 
on 1 tsp. of sherry wine to an orange. Let stand on ice 
for couple hours. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

SAUCE TO SERVE WITH BAKED FISH. 

Put into a double boiler one teaspoonful of butter. 
Beat into it the yolk of one egg, a pinch of salt and 
cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
and one teaspoonful of cider vinegar. Cook and stir 
until it is a little thick and add three drops of lemon 
juice. Keep very hot and closely covered. Serve a 
small portion with each plate of fish. 

SAUCE FOR BROILED FISH. 

Put a heaping tablespoonful of butter into a half cup- 
ful of cream, keep it hot, stir often, and when the fish is 
dished, turn the sauce over the fish and serve. 

21 



FISH TURBOT. 

Make a white sauce of 1 cup milk and 2 tsp. of flour, 
1 tbsp. butter, salt and pepper to taste. Place a layer 
of salmon then sauce until dish is filled, a few bread 
crumbs sprinkled on top and bake 20 minutes. Decorate 
with parsley, lemon and hard boiled eggs. 

Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

FISH SAUCE. 

34 cup butter melted, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. flour, 1 pt. 
hot water and parsley to taste. Cook butter and flour 
together. Then add hot water and parsley chopped 
fine. Use either lemon juice or little vinegar in fish 
sauce, and hard boiled egg chopped fine. 

Mrs. Fred Darling. 

FISH PUDDING. 

Boil three pounds of halibut, remove the bones and 
then mince. Grate an onion to flavor and add salt, 
pepper, a rich cream sauce, and well-beaten whites of 
3 eggs. Put into a fish mold and set in a pan of hot 
water in the oven for half an hour. Turn out on a plat- 
ter and make eyes and fins of hard-boiled egg yolks. 
Serve with lobster or crab sauce made of a rich cream 
sauce with lobster or crab added. Mrs. A. F. Daggett. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Wrap fish in thin muslin and boil in salted water about 
15 minutes to the pound. Serve with sauce made as 
follows : Rub 1 tbsp. of butter and 1 of flour to cream 
in a bowl. Add boiling hot water and stir' constantly 
to avoid lumps. Do not boil. Add the juice of half a 
lemon just before serving. Mrs. F. T. Ouinby. 

22 



SALMON IN SHELLS. 

Drain liquid from 2 cans salmon, pick fine and place 
in buttered baking shells. Melt 2 tbsp. butter, stir in 2 
tbsp. flour. Place liquid drained from salmon in pint 
measure and fill with boiling water, add butter and flour, 
cook until smooth. Remove from fire, add yolks of 4 
eggs, beaten, small sp. full mustard, 1 tbsp. vinegar, 
2 tbsp. olive oil and salt to taste. Pour over salmon in 
shells, strew bread crumbs over top, add a little butter 
and bake until light brown. This can be baked in large 
dish but is nicer in the shells. Mrs. F. Darling. 

SALMON LOAF. 

1 can salmon, 2 eggs, 2 tbsp. melted butter, y cup 
bread crumbs, salt and pepper, 1 sprig minced parsley. 
Put into buttered mold and steam 1 hour. 

SAUCE. 

y 2 cup milk thickened with 1 tsp. corn starch , heap- 
ing tsp. butter, liquor from salmon, 1 egg, 1 tbsp. to- 
mato catsup. Put the beaten egg in last very carefully 
and cook until thick. Pour sauce over fish when ready 
to serve. Mrs. F. Darling. 

SALMON LOAF. 

1 lb. can salmon, 4 beaten eggs, 4 tbsp. melted butter, 
]/ 2 cup bread or cracker crumbs , salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix thoroughly, form in loaf and steam 1 hour. 
Take up on a platter and pour over it the following 
sauce . 

SAUCE. 

y 2 cup butter, yolks of 2 eggs, juice of 1 lemon, y 2 
level tbsp. flour, 1 cup boiling water. Cook and pour 
over the loaf. Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

23 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

1 pt. of best oysters, pick over carefully to remove 
shells, \ l / 2 cups coarse cracker crumbs. Put a few- 
crumbs in bottom of dish, (rinse oysters) put a layer of 
oysters then a scant layer of crumbs , dot generously 
with butter, add pepper and salt and a slight sprinkling 
of dry mustard , add the rest till all is used with a layer 
of crumbs on top. Pour cream over all, just enough to 
cover when pressed down. Bake and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Albert Schaller. 

BOILED DRESSING FOR FISH OR OTHER 
SALADS. 

1 dessert sp. mustard a little bit heaped, 1 dessert sp. sugar 
a little bit heaped, a pinch of salt, a dash of pepper, butter 
size of an egg. Cream all together, break 2 eggs into this 
and beat well with an egg-beater. Add gradually 2-3 of 
a cup of vinegar, then 2-3 cup milk , beat well. Put into 
double boiler and cook until it thickens a little. Cool — 
ready for use. 

FISH TURBOT. 

1 pt. milk, thicken with 2 tbsp. flour, when cool add 2 
well beaten eggs , }4 lb. butter if white fish is used, with 
salmon no butter is required. Season with little onion 
or parsley, 1 can of salmon or 1 lb. minced fish. Bake 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

SHRIMPS AND PEAS. 

Melt 2 tbsp. butter, add 3 tbsp. flour, and pour on 
gradually 1 cup of milk or cream, stir until thickened, 
then add 1 cup shrimps, 1 cup of peas, y? teaspoon salt 
and a little pepper. Cold chicken (cooked) may be 
used in place of shrimps. Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

24 



BAKED OYSTERS. 

1 pt. oysters, 1 small can lobster. Wash and drain 
the oysters by laying on a soft cloth. Put 5 or 6 oysters 
on shells, season with salt and dash of red pepper; cut 
butter into small bits and sprinkle on top. Break the 
lobster into small pieces and with them cover the oysters. 
Put into a hot oven and cook fifteen minutes or until 
oysters are thoroughly heated. Decorate with parsley. 
Serve at once. This will serve six. Suitable for lunch- 
eon or supper. Serve with it caviar sandwiches. 

Mrs. H. K. Zuppinger. 

FOR THE CHAFING DISH. 
LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Make white sauce, add 1 can of lobsters , 1 wine glass 
of wine, 1 egg well beaten. Be careful not to cook 
long after the lobster has been added. 

Mrs. William Gawne. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Roll each nice plump oyster in a very thin slice of 
bacon, pin with a toothpick, fry until bacon is brown, 
serve on very hot dish. 



25 



Egg Dishes & Omelets 



"Oh egg within thine oval shell, 
What palate tickling joys do dwell." 



CREAMED EGGS. 

Take 6 egp-s boiled about 15 minutes. Shell and cut 
into halves. Make a cream sauce of y 2 pt. milk , 2 tbsp. 
flour rubbed smooth with 1 tbsp. butter. Put in double 
boiler and cook until quite thick. A little pepper and 
salt and chopped parsley. Put in just enough vinegar 
to give it a tart taste. Put in the eggs and serve hot. 

Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 

EGG DISH FOR LUNCHEON. 

Boil eggs until hard, then cut into halves lengthwise. 
Make a cream sauce of melted butter and flour well 
cooked , then add milk and cook until thick. Put the 
halves of eggs into a pan then a layer of cream sauce, 
then a layer of mushrooms, then a layer of eggs, and so 
on until the pan is filled or as many as you desire; 
sprinkle grated cheese over the top and brown in a hot 
oven. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

EGG CUTLET. 

Boil and thicken 2 cups of milk with flour quite thick. 
Boil 6 eggs hard , chop fine ; drop eggs into the thick- 
ened milk . season with salt, pepper and a little onion 
chopped very fine , a few parsley leaves broken fine adds 
to flavor. Then fry in a hot pan a large tbsp. to a cutlet. 

Mrs. Albert Schaller. 
26 



PINK PICKLED EGGS. 

Shell hard boiled eggs, then drop into the vinegar in 
which beets have been pickled. Remove when colored 
a delicate pink. These are pretty for a picnic lunch. 

Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

EGG SAUCE. 

One cup cream sauce or drawn butter, 3 hard boiled 
eggs , chop whites fine and add to sauce , grate yolks 
over sauce, or the yolks may be chopped by themselves, 
or rubbed through a sieve. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Devil the eggs in usual way , add minced ham . tongue, 
chicken or other cold meat , mustard may be omitted 
if desired and lemon juice used instead of vinegar, 
minced sardines or grated cheese may be used the same 
as meat, parsley chopped fine; cress or any savory herb 
for seasoning. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

3 eggs. 4 slices of toast, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. butter, 
1 tbsp. flour ; salt and pepper. Boil eggs hard and chop 
the whites. Make a thin white sauce of the milk and 
flour, butter and seasoning. Stir the chopped whites 
into the sauce and pour over toast. Put yolks through 
a sifter over the whole. Mrs. E. P. Mather. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Melt 2 tbsp. of butter in a frying pan and add the regu- 
lar omelet mixture, to which a cupful of grated cheese 
has been added. Fold and serve. 

Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 
27 



OMELET. 

2 e g"g s .« Vk tsp. salt, pepper, 2 tbsp. milk, 1 tsp. butter. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs until light and creamy, add 
seasoning and milk, beat the whites until stiff but not 
dry, cut them into the yolks , heat an omelet pan and 
rub it all over with the butter, brown, turn in the ome- 
let, spread it evenly on the pan. When the omelet is set 
put it into a hot oven for a few minutes to dry slightly 
on top, fold and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 



" Work thou for pleasure, paint or sing or carve. 
The tilings thou lovest, though the body starve, 

Who works for glory misses oft the goal ; 
Who works for money coins his very Soul, 

Work for the works sake. thou, and it may be, 
That these things shaa be added unto thee." 



2S 



Poultry & Meats 

' 'Some hae meat and canna eat, 

Some hae no teeth to chank it ; 
But ive hae meat and we can eat, 
An' so the Lord be thank it.' ' 

ROAST TURKEY. 

One cannot be too careful in selecting, preparing- and 
baking a turkey. For a large turkey, the male bird 
about a year old is best. For a turkey of about 8 pounds 
select the female. In dressing a turkey remove the pin 
feathers under the skin with a sharp knife, being careful 
not to break the skin. Singe carefully. Remove the 
giblets, superfluous fat and other parts inside the bird. 
Wash inside and out. Wipe dry with a soft cloth. Clean 
the giblets. The fowl is now ready for the stuffing. 

STUFFING. 

Put the giblets in a skillet with water to cover. When 
tender remove from the liquor, cool and chop fine. For 
a large turkey, add to the liquor ]/?. cup of butter, 1 
medium sized onion chopped fine, salt and pepper to 
taste and the giblets. Heat the mixture. Chop dry 
bread not too fine. Mix the seasoned liquor thoroughly 
with the bread and a little sage. If not moist enough 
add a little hot water. The secret of good stuffing is 
not to make it too moist. When the turkey is carved, 
the stuffing should roll out lightly. A pt. of oysters may 
be added to the stuffing. The above receipt may be used 
for other fowl. For chicken leave out the onion and 
add more sage. For duck and goose add more onion 
and leave out the sage. 

29 



ROASTING. 

Fill the turkey with stuffing. Do not pack it, although 
the neck may be stuffed to the very tip. Tie a string 
around the skin near the tip and turn back. Sew the 
turkey up. Cover each leg with three thin slices of 
bacon. Fasten on with small skewers or tooth picks. 
Wrap each leg with a soft cloth and sew on. Press the 
legs to the back and tie with a string around the bird. 
This will make the legs as juicy and tender as any part 
of the fowl. Tie the wings closely to the breast. Put 
the turkey in a roasting pan. Slide into a hot oven. 
Leave the cover off until the fowl is thoroughly heated 
and colored a delicate brown. Then baste with hot salt- 
ed water which contains a little melted butter. Cool 
the oven to a moderate temperature. Roast the bird 
from three to five hours with the cover on the pan, bast- 
ing frequently and just using enough water to make a 
steam. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 

1 cup chicken chopped fine , J4 tsp. salt , y 2 tsp. pep- 
per, 1 tsp. chopped parsley or celery, 1 tsp. lemon juice, 
1 cup cream sauce. Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs then 
the beaten whites. Put in a bake dish and cover with 
bread crumbs mixed with melted butter, bake 20 min. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Cut up in pieces size to serve, wash and wipe dry. 
Have spider hot, put in a little fat, brown slightly each 
piece, roll in flour and place in baking pan, season, put 
l / 2 cup water in spider, add butter size of egg. Pour this 
gravy over the chicken, place in hot oven and bake one 
hour and half, occasionally basting. Veal chops or pork 
tenderloins are very nice baked in the same way. 

Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

30 



POLANDERS. 

Have steak cut thin and cut in pieces about 3 inches 
square , cut salt pork in 4 strips, put about 3 strips of 
pork on beef roll and tie with a cord ; roll in flour, brown 
inbutter,add I onion cut fine, then cover with boiling water 
and let simmer an hour. Take out and cut cord then put 
back in gravy and let cook again. Sprinkle 1 tbsp. of 
parsley cut fine. Mrs. Burwell. 

QUICK DUMPLINGS. 

1 egg , 1 cup milk , 1 heaping tsp. baking powder , y 2 
tsp. salt, \y 2 cups of flour or enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together. 
Break the egg into a dish, beat slightly, add the milk, 
beat again, add the flour, baking powder and salt 
mixed, beat up quickly, drop with a tbsp. on the stew, 
cover and wrap a towel around the kettle to prevent 
escape of steam. Boil for 15 minutes. Serve imme- 
diately. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN, COUNTRY STYLE. 

Clean and split 1 spring chicken in half. Lay the 
halves on a meat board and flatten with a pounder. Roll 
in flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Put into a long 
dripping pan, l /> cup butter and melt on top of stove. 
When hot, lay in the prepared chicken, and put in a 
very hot oven. When the chicken begins to brown baste 
with the butter. When browned cover with a tin, cool 
the oven a little. 

If the chicken is young and tender and the oven the 
right temperature, % OI an hour is sufficient to cook the 
chicken. Make a gravy from the brown butter with hot 
water and thickening added. Serve with the chicken 
fried corn mush or browned sweet potatoes. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 
31 



RABBIT RAGOUT. 

Parboil 2 rabbits, 1 can tomatoes, little water, 3 large 
or 6 small onions, y 2 lb. salt pork, 2 cups vinegar, 1 
bay leaf, a few cloves and alspice whole, tied in bag, 
stem slowly till done. Mrs. Souki. 

CHICKEN WITH TOMATOES. 

Cook 4 tbsp. of butter with ^4 a small onion (finely 
chopped) 5 minutes , add 5 tbsp. of flour and stir until 
slightly browned. Pour on gradually Y^ cup each of 
chicken stock and tomatoes stewed and strained. Add 
1 tbsp. lemon juice, y 2 tsp. of salt and J /g tsp. of paprika. 
Reheat in the sauce \y 2 cup cold cooked fowl cut in 
cubes. Miss Belle Jeffery. 

DELICIOUS CHICKEN PIE. 

Take a pair of chickens not too young that have been 
carefully dressed , remove all the fat and skin and ten- 
dons from the drumsticks. Place in a sauce pan, cover 
with boiling water, allow them to simmer gently for 
about two hours, keeping them tightly covered during 
the entire time. Remove the chickens from the fire, cut 
into pieces and place in a deep earthnware pie dish. 
After the chicken is removed, add to the liquor in the 
sauce pan a pt. of milk , thicken with 2 tbsp. of flour 
creamed with 1 of butter, season with a very little cay- 
enne pepper, some onion juice and salt. When thor- 
oughly cooked and just before removing from the fire 
add the well beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Pour over the 
chicken. When both sauce and chicken are quite cold 
place over all a rich cover of good paste, making an in- 
cision in the center for the steam to escape. Brush over 
with the white of an egg, bake in a moderately hot oven. 
When the paste is cooked the pie will be done. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 
32 



CREAM SAUCE. 

Rub tbsp. butter with tbsp. flour, 1 pt. milk and cook 
with a little salt and pepper. Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 

CHICKEN STEW. 

Cut up 1 chicken , cover with hot water and stew until 
quite tender , when tender after cooking an hour, add 
salt; peel and slice or cube potatoes, add to stew. When 
the potatoes are partly cooked thicken with flour mixed 
in cold water until the mixture is consistency of a thin 
gravy. Season with a lump of butter, pepper and more 
salt if necessary. Then add the dumplings. Cooked 
peas may be added with the seasoning. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 

CHOP SUEY. 

2 chickens, 12 onions sliced thin, 2 bunches celery, 2 
cans mushrooms , 4 lbs. rice. Steam rice until tender, 
cut chicken in small pieces. Use natural fat for frying 
chicken, put onions in with chicken when real done, put 
celery in after that and mushrooms , pour juice in after 
all done, last thing. y 2 cup flour, y 2 cup Chinese liquor, 
2 tsp. sugar. Put mushroom juice into mixture. 

E. J. Baske. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH. 

1 lb. round steak, cut into 1 inch squares , 1 lb. veal 
steak, cut into 1 inch squares , 1 lb. pork steak, cut into 1 
inch squares, 1 green pepper, chopped, 2 medium sized 
onions. Brown onion and pepper in 3 tbsp. hot butter. 
Add meat, stirring it in order to sear all sides, then add 
1 qt. boiling water, 3 tbsp. stewed tomato, salt and 
paprika to taste. Cook slowly 2 hours, then thicken the 
liquid slightly and pour over hot baking powder biscuit 
on platter. Mrs. Ernest Z. Wanous. 

33 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Drippings from fillet, 2 tbsp. butter, 4 tbsp. flour, 1 pt. 
stock , 1 pt. canned mushrooms , 1 tsp. Worcestershire 
sauce , salt and pepper. Heat the butter and drippings until 
brown. Add flour and stir until smooth, then the stock 
gradually, stirring constantly , strain , add the mushrooms , 
cook 5 minutes , then add Worcestershire sauce , salt and 
pepper. The same quantity of cooked mushrooms may be 
used. 

SWEETBREADS IN CASES. 

Cooked sweetbreads, 1 pt. , 1 pt. cream, ltbsp. butter, 
1 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1 saltsp. pepper, y 2 can mush- 
rooms , 1 cup bread crumbs , 2 tbsp. butter. After sweet- 
breaks have been washed and soaked in cold water, put. 
them in boiling water with tsp. salt and tbsp. vinegar, 
and boil 20 minutes, then plunge into cold water. Scald 
cream in the double boiler, put butter and flour into a 
frying pan, cook until smooth and frothy, add cream, 
a little at a time. Turn back into double boiler to keep 
warm, and add seasoning. Drain mushrooms from liquor 
and cut into small pieces. Add to crumbs melted butter, 
salt and pepper. Cut sweet breads into small cakes, put 
into sauce and add mushrooms. Cook until heated 
through. Fill cases with mixture, cover with buttered 
crumbs , place on tin sheet and brown the crumbs. 

Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

y 2 lb. sweetbreads put in cold water with juice of 1 
lemon. Let stand y 2 hour. Put in cold water and let 
boil about 20 minutes. Take off and put in ice water 
with a little salt and let stand until good and cold. Then 
cover with hot cream sauce. This will serve 6 persons. 

Mrs. Moorhead. 
34 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 
Take a pair of sweetbreads, la}- in cold water for an 
hour to draw out blood. Then boil in slightly salted 
water 20 minutes, put into cold water, skin and remove 
all the membranes. Cut into small pieces. Make a 
rich cream sauce, 2 tbsp. of butter to 1 of flour, rub 
smooth and add to 1 cup milk and cream. Cook rather 
thick, season with salt and pepper and add a beaten 
egg. It should be a thick mass. Add the sweetbreads 
and a little chopped parsley. Let stand over night. In 
the morning form into croquettes, roll in beaten eggs 
then in cracker crumbs. Do this twice Fry in deep hot 
lard. Drain on paper and serve hot. May be served in 
patty shells or ramikins, in which case sauter a few 
bread-crumbs in butter and sprinkle over the top and 
bake until brown. Mrs. P. M. Aurness. 

SWEETBREAD PATTIES. 

1 pr. sweetbreads , 2 tbsp. butter , 2 tbsp. flour , white 
pepper , few grains cayenne , 1 cup cream or milk , y^ tsp. 
salt , 5 large mushrooms, or half as many canned mush- 
rooms as there are sweetbreads. Sweetbreads spoil very 
quickly. Remove from paper at once, soak in cold water 
10 minutes, and parboil 15 minutes. Add salt 5 minutes 
before they are done. Put them in cold water for 15 min- 
utes, then remove the tough portions. Separate the sweet- 
breads in small pieces and chop the mushrooms fine. Make 
a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and cream , 
add the sweetbreads and the mushrooms and when hot 
serve in patty dishes or timbales. If desired, the mush- 
rooms may be omitted and twice as many sweetbreads used. 

HAM PATTIES. 

2 cups chopped ham , 3 cups bread crumbs wet with 
sweet milk. Put in gem tins and break an egg over each 
and bake until brown. Mrs. N. S. Davis. 

35 



JUMBOLIO (Spanish) 

Put 1 tbsp. butter in frying pan ; cut up one small 
onion fine , add 1 cup minced ham and fry , 1 cup un- 
cooked rice , 2 cups beef stock or extract of beef, added 
to onion and ham. Season with 3 bay leaves, a little 
cayenne pepper; a little salt, J/£ tsp. curry powder, }4 
tsp. thyme. Mix well and bake slowly two hours or 
more. Stir occasionally and add more water or tomato 
and stock if needed. Mrs. Freemire. 

CAROLINE MONTAGUE'S HAM. 

Get a hickory cured ham. Soak it overnight, change 
the water in the morning and soak until noon. Boil, al- 
lowing 20 minutes to a pound. Change the water once, 
i n second water put enough to half cover the ham, and 
add 1 cup of cider or sherry. Take out, make incisions, 
put in 12 bruised cloves. Make a paste of brown sugar 
moistened with cider and well peppered. Spread on ham. 
put in the oven. Bake 15 minutes, basting with weak 
sherry or sweet cider. Take out, cover or sprinkle light- 
ly with bread crumbs and bake 10 minutes. Serve as a 
roast. Mrs. William De la Barre. 

A DELICIOUS METHOD OF COOKING HAM. 

Procure a slice of ham from 4 to 5 inches thick — boil 
15 minutes, pour off the water, put fresh water, again 
boil 15 minutes, pour off water, stir into the yolk of 1 
egg all the pulverized sugar that will mix smooth, re- 
move the rind from ham and smooth this paste of egg 
and sugar over the top . fill the ham with cloves stuck in. 
Bake one hour. Just try this — good cold or hot. You 
can use slice <>i ham three inches thick if you wish. 

Mrs. M. B. Lewis. 

36 



BAKED HAM. 

Slice of ham \]/ 2 or 2 inches thick, yolk of 1 egg, 1 tsp. 
mustard, whole cloves, brown sugar, l /^ cup vinegar, y 2 
cup water. Parboil the ham three times , then while it 
is still hot stick whole cloves about an inch apart in 
both sides of ham. To the beaten yolk of the egg add 
1 tsp. mustard and enough brown sugar to make a thick 
paste. Spread this mixture on both sides of ham and let 
stand several hours. About half an hour before the ham 
is to be served place it in an earthen baking dish with y 2 
cup water and % cup vinegar. Turn ham several times 
and baste frequently. If necessary add more water when 
it is baking. Serve the gravy with the ham. 

Mrs. P. R. Robb. 



A PALATABLE POLISH STEW. 

1 lb. of top of the round steak , 1 cup of bread crumbs , 
2 tbsp. of chopped suet , 1 onion , 1 heaping tsp. of 
chopped parsley, 1 egg or a little milk, 1 tbsp. of flour, 
2 cups of water or stock. Have the steak in one thin 
slice as broad as possible. Mix in a small basin the 
bread crumbs, suet, parsley, half the onion parboiled and 
chopped, pepper and salt to season it. Then the beaten 
egg or milk to barely moisten the whole. Gather this 
all up in a lump like a large egg. Roll it up in side of the 
meat and tie it with string. Put into a saucepan one tbsp. 
of drippings , chop half an onion and fry it a little, then 
add the meat and fry brown. Mix the flour, water, 
a little pepper and salt together, pour it in, and let the 
whole stew for about Y^ of an hour. Take up the meat, 
remove the string, and pour the gravy over it. Par- 
boiling the onion renders it not quite so strong. 

37 



BROILED OR SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Cut chicken into pieces, lay in dripping pan and sprin- 
kle with salt, pepper well, dredge with flour, put small 
bits of butter over all, using about the size of an egg 
for each chicken, cover and bake forty minutes, remove 
cover and bake brown. Mrs. William Gawne. 

SPANISH CLUK DISH. 

1 small onion, 1 cup minced ham, 2 cups strained to- 
matoes , 2 cups beef stock , 1 cup rice , y 2 tsp. curry pow- 
der, J /i tsp. thyme, 3 bay leaves, salt, red pepper to 
taste. Fry chopped onion and ham together. Then add 
the other ingredients and bake 2 hours. 

Mrs. William Burnham. 

SPANISH RAREBIT. 

Fry 1 tsp. onion in 1 tbsp. butter, add 2 cups strained 
tomatoes , % cup grated cheese. When heated add 4 
eggs beaten. Serve on toast or crackers. 

Gladys A. Campbell. 

POT ROAST. (SAURBRATEN.) 

Six lbs. of beef from shoulder. Put into a jar and 
add 3 bay leaves , 1 large onion sliced , y> dozen cloves , 
y 2 dozen alspice, pepper and salt. Cover with vinegar, 
Let stand five or six days. When ready to use put 3 
tbsp. lard or drippings into an iron kettle. When lard 
is hot put in the meat and sear on both sides until well 
browned. Cover with beef broth or water. Add a little 
of the vinegar, onions and spices. Let it simmer about 
2 hours or until the meat is tender. When done take out 
the meat, add 2 tbsp. browned flour mixed smooth with 
water to the gravy. Let boil a few moments and serve. 

Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 

38 



VEAL BIRDS. 

1 slice of veal 1 inch thick, cut into small squares, 
pounded flat, spread with equal amount of bacon and 
onion, run through meat grinder, roll up and tie, roll 
in flour, pepper and salt mixture , place in very hot spider 
containing 1 tbsp. of butter and 2 slices of bacon , brown 
on all sides quickly, cover with boiling water and let 
simmer 2 hours ; thicken gravy , add l / 2 cup cream to 
gravy. Mrs. Pierce. 

AN ITALIAN STEW. 
1 lb. of pork chopped, salted and fried brown in 
kettle, add 1 can of tomatoes, x /2 can of water, 1 pack- 
age of spaghetti (broken once). Cover tightly and let 
simmer 1 hour. Then add 1 tbsp. of grated cheese and 
pinch of cayenne pepper. Very good. 

Mrs. W. G. Benjamin. 

FLANK STEAK WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Season a flank steak and brown in drippings in a spi- 
der, heat a can of tomato, well seasoned with pepper, 
salt, and a bay leaf , strain and thicken with 1 tbsp. of 
butter and 1 tbsp. of flour. Turn this over the steak, 
cover and let simmer untl tender. Mrs. Geo. S. Davis. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT. 

Line a mould, slightly buttered, with steamed rice, 
fill center with 2 cups of finely chopped cooked mutton, 
season with salt, pepper, celery salt and onion juice, 
then add x /\ cup cracker crumbs , one egg slightly beaten 
and enough hot stock or water to moisten. Cover meat 
with rice , cover rice with buttered paper while steaming. 
Steam 45 minutes. Serve on a platter with tomato 
sauce. Veal or chicken may be used instead of mutton. 

Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

39 



JAMBOLEAR. 

Chop 2 slices uncooked bacon and fry out; chop small 
onion very fine, and fry in bacon fat, until a light brown, 
y 2 can tomatoes, a pinch of salt, small piece of bay 
leaf. Let cook down until almost dry. Mix with boiled 
rice and plenty of red pepper. Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

MEAT PIE (PASTETE). 

4 lbs. lean loin of pork, 2 good sized onion sliced, 3 
bay leaves, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into pieces 
3 inches square and 1 inch thick. Put into a jar with 
onions, bay leaves, salt and pepper. Cover with vinegar 
and let stand four days. 

PASTRY FOR SAME. 

2 qts. of flour, pinch of salt, 1 lb. butter or half butter 
and half lard. Mix ]/ 2 butter with flour. Use enough 
water to make dough not too soft. Then roll out and 
spread with a part of the remaining butter. Fold and 
roll again. Proceed in this manner till all the butter is 
used. Beating with rolling pin after each folding im- 
proves the dough. Roll out y 2 inch thick for lower 
crust. Line a dripping pan. Put in a layer of meat. 
Cover with chopped onion and parsley, then cover with 
a layer of dough not as thick as the lower crust. Put 
on another layer of meat and so on, then add the top 
crust, about same as the middle crust. Lap the upper 
crust over the under crust. Glaze the top with beaten 
egg. Bake two hours in a slow oven. Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 

MEAT LOAF. 

2 lbs. beef. y lb. pork; small onion, 3 slices of bread 
soaked in milk, salt and pepper, 2 eggs. Make in loaf in 
bread pan, and set in a dish of hot water and bake one 
hour. Mrs. Moreau. 

40 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING WITH ROAST BEEF. 

2 eggs , 1 cup milk, 1 cup flour, a little salt. Mix and 
sift salt and flour, add the milk gradually to make a 
smooth batter. Beat egg light and add to batter, beat 
well , bake in gem pans for 35 minutes. Baste with drip- 
pings from beef after they are well risen. If preferred, 
batter may be poured in roasting pan and baked with 
roast on rack above it , in this way will baste itself. 
Serve cut in squares with the meat. 

BRAISED APPLES FOR LUNCHEON. 

Individual tenderloin cut in small pieces , cut pocket 
in each , stuff with dressing and roast Yz hour. Take red 
apples, core and quarter without peeling, roll apples in 
plenty of granulated sugar that has a little cinnamon in. 
Lay on top of tenderloin with skin side up and bake un- 
til done. Serve quarter on each piece of tenderloin. 

Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

PRESSED MEAT. 

Wash carefully eight (8) lbs. of beef plate. Put in a 
kettle. Cover with boiling water to retain the juices. 
Boil for a minute and skim. Add a few whole cloves. 
Set back on stove, slowly simmer until thoroughly 
cooked. That is, so tender until the meat drops to 
pieces. Remove from the stove. Let stand until cool 
enough to be handled. Take the meat from the liquor 
and take out the bone, gristle and tough white part. 
Separate, with the fingers, the meat into small pieces. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Press into a mold. 
Let stand over night in a cold place. The lean, fat and 
liquor should be in such proportion that the meat will 
slice without crumbling. A shoulder of veal may be 
used, or veal and beef together is delicious. Never boil. 
"Meat boiled is meat spoiled." Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

41 



BEEF POT ROAST. 

Get a 5 lb. piece of beef from the shoulder, cut up 
some pieces of suet with 1 small onion and brown in an 
iron kettle or fry in spider. When well browned on all 
sides add boiling water, which hardly covers the meat. 
Add 2 bay leaves. Cover closely and let simmer slowly 
until tender or at least 5 hours. Salt, roast half hour 
before time for serving. When roast is cooked take out 
of kettle and add enough water to the kettle to make 
sufficient amount of gravy, thicken with 3 tbsp. of flour 
mixed smoothly in water. Boil gravy for about 5 mi- 
nutes, then strain. It is very appetizing to boil with the 
meat some carrots sliced lengthwise and serve on platter 
with meat. Mrs. Paul A. Schmitt. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Cook a knuckle of veal until tender with bay leaves, 
onion, celery salt, cloves, salt, pepper and parsley. Let 
stand until cool, then take the meat and chop very fine. 
Take about two good sized onions and chop fine. Then 
fry until done in plenty of butter. Add either 1 cup of 
rice or mashed potatoes, with meat and onions, mixing 
thoroughly. If too dry add some of liquor. This is best 
made one day and served next. Mold into croquettes, 
dip in egg and roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat 
or with part butter and lard. Serve with peas or tomato 
sauce. Mrs. Hugh Wakefield. 

BOBOTEE (COLD MEAT LOAF). 

Put 2 tbsp. of butter in frying pan , slice into this l / 2 
small onion , cook until soft , add 2 oz. bread crumbs , 1 
cup milk , take from fire and let stand 10 minutes. Add 
8 almonds, 1 pt. of cold chopped meat, l / 2 tsp. curry 
powder, 3 eggs; mix all and put in loaf. Bake 20 mi- 
nutes. Mrs. Martin. 

42 



PORK PIE. 

2 lbs. of lean porksteak , cut in dice size of domino 
sugar, y 2 lb. of salt pork chopped fine, a small onion 
chopped not too fine , 3 potatoes cut in dice size of meat. 
Mix well together and pour over this 1 cup hot water, 
2 tbsp. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Stew until 
meat is tender. Line deep pan with rich biscuit dough , 
pour in stew, put strips of dough on the top. Bake un- 
til crust is done. Mrs. Charles H. Johnson. 

HASH. 

About 20c of round steak or cold roast beef, 1 pt. to- 
matoes, 2 green peppers, 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 1 
tbsp. catsup, 2 big onions, about 5 Zwieback or toast, 
34 cup butter, salt. Meat, toast, onions and peppers 
should be ground or chopped. A little stock or gravy 
added to this will improve it. Sprinkle a little toast 
over top with bits of butter and bake 25 or 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Kissing. 

BEEF LOAF. 

1 lb. chopped beef, 2 eggs, 1 cup bread crumbs, y 2 
cup milk, 2 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. pepper. Make into loaf. Put 
2 tbsp. butter into frying pan and brown loaf in it. Slice 
1 onion and 6 bay leaves , put in pan with meat and 
cover with water and boil 1 hour. Serve either with 
gravy or tomato sauce. Mrs. Fred Darling. 

PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BACON. 

y 2 lb. of bacon, sliced thin , 2 lbs. pork tenderloin, cut 
round. Fry bacon and take out. Dip tenderloin in flour 
and fry. Before removing tenderloin, pour one cup of 
cream and then let cook a few minutes. Remove and 
garnish with bacon. Mrs. George H. Rentz. 

43 



VEAL WITH BACON. 

Yz lb. of bacon and 2 lbs of veal steak. Fry bacon and 
take out. Dip veal in egg and cracker crumbs, and 
brown , then pour boiling water over, enough to cover 
meat, placing cover over spider, and let slowly simmer 
until meat is tender and water has boiled down to form 
a gravy. This will take about one hour. Then remove, 
put meat on a platter and pour gravy over and garnish 
with bacon. Mrs. George H. Rentz. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 1 salt- 
spoon pepper, ]/ 2 lb. smoked beef. Have beef sliced very 
thin. Pour boiling water on it. Let stand ten minutes in 
order that it may taste less of salt. Melt butter, add the 
flour, then hot milk gradually, then the seasoning. Beat 
egg and add sauce to it gradually. Drain water from 
meat and heat it in tbsp. butter until the edges curl up. 
Drain butter from it and pour sauce over meat. Serve 
at once or it is likely to curdle. Instead of the sauce 
1 cup cream may be added to the beef after it is cooked. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

1 fillet of beef , 1 small onion , 1 small carrot , 1 stalk 
celery , 4 cloves , 2 bay leaves. Have butcher lard the fillet 
with salt pork. Remove any tough membrane and excess 
of fat. Slice the onion, carrot and celery, and place them 
with the cloves and bay leaves in the bottom of the pan. 
Place fillet on vegetables, or on a meat rack, season with 
salt and pepper and bits of butter. Dissolve 1 tsp. salt in 
1/2 cup boiling water, and pour into pan. Bake in a hot 
oven 30 or 40 minutes. Baste frequently. A mushroom 
sauce may be served with a fillet, or a brown gravy may be 
substituted. 

44 



MEAT LOAF AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

2 lbs. beef chopped, 1 lb. fresh pork, 1 lb. veal, but- 
ter size of an egg, salt, \y 2 tbsp. (level) , 1 tbsp. (small), 
pepper , 2 eggs beaten lightly , Y\ cup bread crumbs , ^ 
cup water and 2 tbsp. of milk , bake 2 hours. 

COUNTRY PORK SAUSAGE. 

6 lbs. lean pork, 3 lbs. fat pork, 3 tbsp. salt, 2 tbsp. 
black pepper, *4 tsp. red pepper, 4 tbsp. sifted sage. 
Put the pork through the meat grinder, add seasoning 
and mix thoroughly , grind again, so the meat may be 
nice and fine. Savory, mace, cloves and nutmeg may 
be added if desired. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 can tomatoes boiled , thoroughly seasoned with a 
few celery tops , parsley , 1 onion , dash of paprika , pep- 
per and bay leaf. Strain and thicken with corn starch. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Wipe and remove bone, skin and tough membranes. 
Cover the bone and tough pieces of meat with cold water, 
and cook at a low temperature. This stock may be used 
in the sauce. Season the veal with salt and pepper. Roll 
in fine bread crumbs , dip in beaten egg ; then in crumbs 
again. Use wooden skewers to hold cutlets together. Melt 
2 tbsp. of drippings, or butter, and brown the cutlets in the 
hot fat. When brov/ned, put the cutlets into a stew-pan. 

SAUCE FOR CUTLETS. 

2 tbsp. drippings , 34 CU P flour , 1 pt. stock, or water , 1 
tsp. or more of Worcestershire sauce , 2 tbsp. chopped pars- 
ley. Prepare as a white sauce, after letting the drippings 
brown, and pour over the cutlets and cook at a low tem- 
perature for 1 hour, or until tender. Garnish with parsley. 

45 



SAUSAGE. 

6 lbs. pork fat and lean, grated peel of y 2 lemon, juice 
of 1 lemon, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 tsp. black pepper, 1 tsp. 
cayenne papper, 5 tsp. salt, 3 tsp. sweet marjoram and 
thyme mixed , 2 tsp. sage. Make into balls. Be sure 
and mix thoroughly and then it is ready for use. Will 
keep a long time in the winter, if kept cool. 

Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 



LUNCHEON MENU. 

Grape fruit ; froglegs ; green peas ; macaroni croquette ; 
beet and green bean salad ; burnt almond charlotte with 
macaroons ; coffee ; creme de menthe. 



LUNCHEON. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Soup Sticks 

Salmon Souffle 

Parker House Rolls 

Veal Cutlets 

Potato Puff Spinach Peas 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Crackers Cheese 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

Hard Sauce. 

Coffee 



46 



Vegetables 



"Man doth not live by bread alone." — Deuteronomy 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak a qt. of small white beans over night in cold 
water. Pour off all the water, cover with fresh and pour 
off again. Put over the fire with enough fresh water to 
cover the beans and ^ saltspoon of soda. When the 
water begins to boil pour it off at once and put the beans 
in a colander. Allow fresh cold water to run through 
them, rinsing them thoroughly. This gives them the 
firmness which keeps them from getting "mushy." Lay 
a very thin slice of salt pork in the bottom of the bean 
pot. Put a whole small onion on pork and pour in the 
beans. Take Yi lb. of salt pork, score the rind every 
^4 inch and press into the beans, allowing just the rind 
to show. Add a tsp. of salt unless the pork is very salty. 
If it is only add V2 tsp. Add a saltspoon of ground mus- 
tard and 2 tbsp. of molasses, more if beans are liked 
quite sweet. Cover with cold water, set in slow oven 
and bake from 8 to 10 hours, having a slow, steady heat. 
As the water boils off add more, but be sure it is boiling 
and do not add water within an hour of serving. They 
will be a beautiful brown, moist, tender and whole, with 
an indescribably delightful flavor. By no means omit 
the onion. Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 

CHOPPED BEETS. 

Beets boiled and chopped. Add pepper and salt. Put 
in a large piece of butter, heat in spider and serve. 

47 



BAKED BEETS. 

Wash and clean beets , bake ^4 of an hour, turning 
them often with knife instead of fork so as to not let 
juice out. When done remove skins and serve with 
butter, salt and pepper on the slices. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

BEAN RAREBIT. 

Melt 2 tbsp. butter; add ^4 tsp. of salt; *4 tsp. pap- 
rika , 1 cup cold baked beans pressed through a strainer. 
When mixture is thoroughly heated, add gradually Y^ 
cup milk and when blended with the other ingredients 
2-3 cup soft cheese finely cut and % tsp. Worcestershire 
sauce. Stir constantly until cheese is melted. Serve on 
zephyrettes. Miss Belle Jeffery. 

CARROTS. 

Take carrots, scrape, cut into small pieces and boil 
tender, drain; brown some bread crumbs in a frying pan 
with butter, throw the carrots into it and toss well up. 
Serve. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare cucumbers and cut into thick slices , dip into 
beaten egg which has been seasoned with salt and pep- 
per, then roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry in frying 
pan a light brown. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

DUCHESS POTATOES. 

2 cups hot minced potatoes , 2 tbsp. butter , y 2 tsp. salt , 
yolks of 3 eggs, add the butter and salt to the hot potatoes, 
let cool then add the yolks of eggs slightly beaten. Shape 
in form of baskets, pyramids, roses, etc., using a pastry bag 
and tube. Brush over with beaten white of egg diluted 
with 1 tbsp. water, and brown in a hot oven. 

48 



ITALIAN CAULIFLOWER. 

Take a large cauliflower, wash and put on in salted 
boiling water to cook , cook till tender. Carefully re- 
move with a skimmer so as not to break it. Put on a 
platter, flower side up , have ready a white sauce, and 
with a spoon dip the sauce over it. Then grate a gener- 
ous amount of cheese over it , dot with bits of butter 
and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake 20 minutes in a 
hot oven. Send to table on same dish, garnished with 
water cress or parsley. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Select a hard cabbage , cut out the root end in shape 
of a lid. Scoop out the cabbage, making a space for the 
meat but leaving thick enough walls. Then wash the 
cabbage thoroughly. Mince fine or put through a grind- 
er twice, 3>4 lb. lean pork and ^ lb. lean beef (for small 
sized cabbage), season with 1 small onion, pepper and 
salt , 2 eggs , 1 tbsp. of flour and a little sweet milk to 
shape into a loaf, not too soft, stir all well together, fill 
the cavity of the cabbage, packing tightly and smooth, 
put on the lid and tie up tight in a linen cloth. Boil 
slowly in a large kettle covered with water for 4 to 5 
hours, according to size of cabbage and filling. Serve 
hot immediately, slicing as wanted with hot butter for 
sauce. Mrs. J. A. Gregg, Burlington, Iowa. 

POTATO PUFF. 

1 pt. mashed potatoes , 1 tsp. salt , % tsp. pepper , y% tsp. 
celery salt , 2 tbsp. butter , 2 tbsp. parsley , 2 eggs , % cup 
milk. Add all ingredients except the eggs to the hot pota- 
toes. Beat the eggs separately, then add the yolks to the 
potatoes and fold in the whites. Put in a buttered baking 
dish and bake in a moderately hot oven until puffed and 
brown. Serve immediately. 

49 



ESCALLOPED CORN. 

Cut corn from a dozen ears , be sure and not cut 
down into the cob , take the back of knife and push out 
the juice and small kernels. Put into an earthen dish , 
add a dash of cayenne, % tsp. salt, *4 CU P °f butter cut 
in small pieces , 1 small cup of cream , 1 tsp. sugar. 
Stir all together, sprinkle fine bread crumbs on top and 
bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

DUMPLINGS (KNGEPFLA). 

1 qt. flour, a little salt, 2 eggs beaten into the flour 
with enough water to make a stiff batter. Have ready a 
kettle of boiling salted water. Put the batter on a plate 
and as it runs over the edge cut it off into small pieces 
with a knife, dropping into the boiling water. Dipping 
the knife into the hot water will prevent the dough from 
sticking to it. When the dumplings rise to the top of 
the water they are done. Skim out into serving dish. 
A little baking powder may be added if desired. Then 
put two tbsp. butter into a frying pan. When hot add 
2 scant tbsp. bread crumbs. Fry brown. Pour over dump- 
lings and serve. May take the place of a vegetable. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

DUMPLINGS (KNOPFLA). 

1 qt. flour; a little salt, and milk to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Beat in gradually 3 eggs, 1 at a time. Cook the 
same as above. If any are left over they may be fried 
in butter like potatoes. Mrs. C. J. Hedwall. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Choose tomatoes which are not dead ripe. Cut, unpeeled, 
in thick slices , dust with pepper, salt and powdered sugar. 
Roll in hot melted butter, then in finely sifted bread crumbs, 
and brown in a wire broiler over coals, or on a gas broiler. 

50 



FRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Place the gill side downward in hot butter, in granite 
pan. Fry covered for five minutes, turning once. Serve 
gills upward, adding salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice 
if liked. 

MUSHROOMS IN SHELLS. 

Cut fresh dressed mushrooms in small pieces, dry in 
a napkin and toss them in hot butter in a sauce pan until 
brown, but not done. Shake in a tsp. of flour, stir, add a 
tsp. of rich veal or chicken stock, and let simmer for five 
minutes. Beat 2 eggs with the juice of half a lemon and 
add slowly, stirring until as thick as cream. Fill table 
shells with the mixture, sprinkle with cracker crumbs 
and brown in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED MUSHROOMS. 

Place alternate layers of cracker crumbs and mush- 
rooms in a thickly covered baking dish and season each 
layer highly with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. 
Have the last layer of crumbs. Dot with bits of butter. 
Pour a teacupful of cream or delicate stock over. Bake 
20 minutes and serve very hot. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Wash, peel and drain rather thin. To every qt. add a 
teacupful of cold water, salt and pepper to taste. Sim- 
mer for five minutes and add a tbsp. of butter rubbed 
into a tbsp. of flour. Remove as soon as it bubbles. Add 
a tsp. of lemon juice if desired. 

MUSHROOM PATTIES. 

Prepare the same mixture as above. Have hot shells 
of puff paste that have been baked in patty pans. Drop 
a spoonful in each and serve hot. 

51 



STUFFED MUSHROOMS. 

To 1 cupful of chopped mushrooms add 1 tsp. of 
grated onion and put on the stove to heat in a trifle of 
cream and butter. Fill large mushrooms with the mix- 
ture, which has been highly seasoned. Lay them thick- 
ly on a buttered dish, sprinkle each with fine salted 
bread crumbs, bake for 10 minutes in a hot oven and 
serve. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

MUSHROOMS CREAMED. 

Cook precisely as directed for stewed mushrooms, 
omitting the lemon juice and adding three tbsp. of rich, 
sweet cream. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

DELICATESSEN POTATOES. 

10 baked potatoes , cream sauce , 4 tbsp. of toasted 
bread crumbs . 2 tbsp. melted butter. Crumble the pota- 
toes while warm before taking out of the skins. Make 
a very thick cream sauce, using 4 tbsp. of flour and 3 
tbsp. of melted butter , add milk until a thick sauce is 
made. Season with salt and pepper. Put a layer of po- 
tatoes in a baking dish, then a layer of cream sauce; 2 
layers of each is sufficient. Bake until the cream sauce 
browns on top. Put toasted bread crumbs in saucepan 
with 2 tbsp. of melted butter, when hot cover the 
scalloped potatoes with these just before serving. The 
success of this dish depends on using baked potatoes and 
having the cream sauce thick enough to make a layer 
that will not mix with the potatoes. 

Mrs. Emmett T. White. 

CREAMED CELERY. 

Cut up celery. Boil until tender. Drain, season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Add 3^ cup sweet cream and 
serve. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

52 



POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Slice raw potatoes thin into a dish, put plenty of but- 
ter with them, and plenty of cheese broken into small 
pieces, salt and pepper well, cover the potato with milk. 
Bake almost an hour. Airs. Albert Schaller. 

BROWNED POTATO BALLS. 

Cut raw potatoes into balls. Boil them in stock 
seasoned with onion until not quite tender. Put them 
into a shallow baking- pan covered with melted butter, 
just enough to brown them nicely in a hot oven. Be- 
fore serving sprinkle with finely minced parsley. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 

POTATO FARCI. 

Select potatoes of even size, pare and cut off about 
1-3 from one end. Hollow out center with a small 
knife or with a pointed apple-corer and fill with chopped 
cooked or raw beef, mutton or chicken, well seasoned, 
or use sausage meat. Set the potatoes in a pan in a hot 
oven and bake until done. W r hen served add a spoonful 
of stock gravy to each potato. Garnish with sprigs of 
parsley. For a brown gravy, to add to these stuffed po- 
tatoes or to serve with them fry 2 level tbsp. chopped 
onion in 2 level tbsp. butter until yellow, then stir in 2 
level tbsp. dry flour and finally add Yi pt. boiling water 
gradually and season with salt and pepper. Beat until 
smooth, then after cooking 5 minutes strain through a 
wire strainer. Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

STEAMED SW T EET POTATOES. 

Pare and slice about y$ of an inch thick. Put into a 
dish with a large piece of butter, pepper and salt and a 
little sugar. Steam until tender. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

53 



-KRUMPLI NUDLI" HUNGARIAN. 
(POTATO NOODLES.) 

Boil the potatoes with the skins on. When done skin, 
mash, season with salt and pepper, and add flour 
enough to make a paste. Roll into small croquettes and 
drop into a kettle of deep, hot fat. As soon as done put 
into a hot colander and drain. Put into a dish and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake for ten minutes in 
a hot oven. Miss Browning. 

MASHED POTATOES WITH CHEESE SAUCE. 

Boil potatoes and mash them ; to each y 2 doz. large 
ones add tbsp. of butter, pepper and salt to taste , Yz 
cup of milk, form into conical shape with ice-cream 
scoop or small cups first rinsed in cold water and set on 
platter in oven to keep hot. Leave the oven door partly 
open so the potatoes will not dry. While potatoes are 
boiling make sauce. Melt 1 tbsp. butter in double boiler, 
add 1 tbsp. of flour and thoroughly blend, add 1 cup of 
hot milk seasoned with dash of paprika and salt to taste. 
When this is smooth stir in 1 cup of grated cheese, or 
cheese run through meat chopper; cheese will melt in a 
short time. Keep sauce hot in double boiler until pota- 
toes are ready. Send potatoes to table on platter, sauce 
in gravy boat. Excellent with broiled steak. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 

MACARONI. 

1 cup macaroni, broken in small pieces , boiled in 
salted water and blanched in cold, 1 cup soft bread 
crumbs, 1 cup scalded cream, l /^ cup butter, 1 cup 
grated cheese (New York) , 2 eggs beaten light , 1 tsp. 
chopped parsley , ^ tsp. salt , 1 chopped pimento , very 
little chopped onion. Put in well buttered dish and bake 
■)4 of an hour with baking dish in pan of water. D. H. 

54 



FANCY CREAMED POTATOES WITH CHEESE. 

Cut into dice shape cold boiled potatoes , put into a 
stew pan, cover with cream, add a generous quantity 
of butter and enough corn starch to thicken. Be sure 
that corn starch is thoroughly cooked , then add a gener- 
ous amount of grated cheese. Have a frying pan with 
plenty of melted butter, put potatoes into pan and fry 
8 minutes. The flavor of potatoes is impaired if al- 
lowed to cook too long. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Boil sweet potatoes not quite done, remove, pare, 
cut in half lengthwise, place in baking dish. Sprinkle 
with butter and brown sugar. Bake until slightly brown, 
serve hot. Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

RICE BALLS. 

Take rice that has boiled stiff or left over rice, drop 
1 egg into it, mix well. Then make balls the shape of 
an egg. Drop these balls into hot lard. Cook until brown. 

Mrs. Albert Schaller. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Take small egg plant , quarter and take out inside. 
Leave end of stem on shell. Boil in salt water until ten- 
der, mash, season well with celery, red peppers, salt, 
butter and bread crumbs. Put back in shells and bake. 
Bread crumbs on top. Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

FRIED APPLES WITH ONIONS. 

1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. lard, apples, onions, salt and 
pepper. Heat fat. Slice in apples ; then onions. Season 
with salt and pepper and fry until the onions are done. 

Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 

55 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take large ripe tomatoes. Scoop out centers , fill with 
chopped celery, well seasoned with pepper and salt, 
plentiful lumps of butter, cover with bread crumbs and 
bake. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

RICE TIMBALES. 

Pack hot boiled rice in slightly buttered molds and 
poach in oven 10 minutes. 

TURNIP CUP WITH PEAS. 

Pare white turnips of medium size. Scoop out hol- 
lows to form cups and cook in an uncovered kettle until 
white and transparent. Place a small piece of butter 
in each cup. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper. Fill the cups with cooked green peas. 

Mrs. T. V. Moreau. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI. 

Throw Yz pkg. of spaghetti in boiling salted water, 
cook until well done, then wash in cold water and ar- 
range in baking dish. Then strain 2-3 can tomatoes, 1 
large onion cut in quarters, y 2 lb. of grated cheese, salt 
and pepper to taste. Cook 20 minutes and thicken. Pour 
over spaghetti and cover with cracker crumbs, bake 20 
minutes in hot oven. Harriet C. Dodge. 

SPANISH TOMATOES. 

6 large tomatoes ; take out pulp and seeds ; for stuff- 
ing, 1 lb. lean pork or beef, run through grinder; 1 
onion chopped fine . */2 cup rolled toasted bread crumbs ; 
2 eggs well beaten , sage , salt ; paprika to taste. Mix 
well together and stuff tomatoes. (Sweet peppers may 
be used if preferred.) Sprinkle on top with crumbs and 
a small piece of butter. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Mrs. C. H. Johnson. 
56 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Cut thin slices from the stem end of eight ripe toma- 
toes, take out the pulp and sprinkle with salt and invert 
for y 2 hour. Cook a few minutes a tsp. of finely chopped 
onion in 2 tbsp. of butter, y 2 cup of fresh sausage meat, 
Yi cup of soft bread crumbs, and the tomato pulp, sea- 
son to taste, cook and add one egg, heat again and fill 
tomatoes with mixture. Bake in buttered pan 20 mi- 
nutes. Harriet C. Dodge. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

6 large green peppers , remove all seeds ; wash care- 
fully. Erown in butter, medium sized onion cut fine. 
Add y> lb. boiled ham chopped , J / 2 qt. can of tomatoes , 
bread crumbs sufficient to thicken; salt to taste. Fill 
peppers, bake in tin, covering the bottom with water, 
half an hour. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 



57 



Salads 

"My salad days when I was young and green." 

PEAS AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Take equal amount of cooked green peas, (canned will 
do) and cream cheese cut into cubes. Mix with mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf. A little chopped 
pickle may be added if liked. Mrs. T. F. Ouinby. 

LEROY BOUGHNER SALAD. 

Equal parts of cucumbers, sweet green pepper, celery 
and onions (green). Chop vegetables, put all together 
and let stand 1 hour. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves cov- 
ered with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

PEA SALAD. 

1 can peas, 3 tbsp. cheese, 3 tbsp. sweet pickles, 3 
tbsp. onions, nuts if desired, blanched, salad dressing. 
Cook and season the peas and cool, cube the cheese and 
chop the pickles and onions before measuring, toss all 
together with a fork, mix with the salad dressing and 
serve on lettuce very cold. Mrs. Lockerby. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Slice Malaga grapes, cut or shred pineapple, and slice 
bananas into small pieces. Mix lightly and add chopped 
pecans or walnuts and chill. When ready to serve, mix 
with egg nog dressing. Serve immediately on lettuce leaves 
or in orange or grapefruit cases. 

58 



TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Take an equal amount of sliced tomatoes, peeled and 
sliced cucumbers, add a little onion juice. Pour over 
mayonnaise dressing and mix. Serve very cold. 

Mrs.' T. F. Quinby. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

1 small, solid, head, shaved fine. 1 small onion cut 
fine, salt slightly, 24 cup vinegar, dash of red pepper, 2 
tsp. olive oil; stir until thick, pour over cabbage, ^ 
red or green pepper and mix with cabbage. Mrs. Gibson. 

HOT POTATO SALAD. 

Boil 12 medium sized potatoes in jackets, pare and 
slice thin, slice thin 1 large or 2 small onions, slice thin 
1 cucumber, slice thin 3 boiled eggs, mix. Season to 
taste. Fry % lb. bacon cut in small squares, crisp. Mix 
bacon with above. Pour 2-3 cup vinegar into bacon fat , 
heat and pour over above mixture just before serving. 

Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

2 yolks of eggs , 1 cup olive oil , 1 tsp. salt , J4 tsp. 
cayenne , y 2 tsp. mustard , ]/ 2 tsp. sugar , 1 tbsp. vinegar , 
1 tbsp. lemon juice. Add the seasonings to the egg yolks 
and mix well. Add the oil, drop by drop, stirring con- 
stantly in the same direction with a wooden spoon or silver 
fork. When thick, add lemon juice and vinegar, a few 
drops at a time. If the dressing curdles, take another egg 
yolk and add the curdled dressing to it, then the remainder 
of the oil. 

NOTE: Set the bowl on ice while making the dressing 
and chill the eggs and oil thoroughly, before using. 

59 



GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Put on to boil the day before small potatoes with the 
jackets on. Do not cook too much. Next day peel and 
slice rather thin. Fry out some fat bacon and to */£ cup 
fat add 1 large onion sliced. Do not cook brown. Add 
34 cup sharp vinegar. Add about 1 qt. of the sliced po- 
tatoes, a little salt and pepper. Mix gently until the 
potatoes are well covered with fat and look shiny. They 
should be a little sour. If not acid enough add more 
vinegar. Serve hot with frankfurter sausage or redhots. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

1 can shrimp, % medium cabbage, 1 onion, 1 small 
head celery, 1 tsp. salt. Remove the shrimp from the 
can or fresh shrimp, and cover with boiling water. Let 
stand until cool, drain and place on ice. Shave the cab- 
bage very fine and then with sharp knife cut across into 
short pieces. Cut the celery very fine, chop the onion. 
Place on the ice. When the shrimp is cold break in 
small pieces and add to the other ingredients. Toss all 
together with a fork. 

DRESSING. 

6 yolks of eggs, l / 2 cup vinegar, 1 rounding tsp. dry 
mustard, 1-3 cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. extract 
of celery , dash of red pepper. Mix the mustard with 
the sugar, salt and pepper, add the vinegar gradually, 
when smooth pour over the eggs and beat well. Cook 
with the bowl in a dish of hot water stirring constantly 
until thick. When cold thin with 1 cup of cream, add 
the extract of celery. Mix with the shrimp and cabbage, 
etc., and serve on lettuce. This salad will not be a suc- 
cess without the celery extract. Mrs. Lockerby. 

60 



PEA SALAD. 

1 can peas, 3 tbsp. cheese cut in tiny cubes, 3 tbsp. 
small pickles chopped, 3 tbsp. small onions, 3 tbsp. nuts, 
if desired. Serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

EGG NOG DRESSING. 

Beat 3 yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored. Add 
gradually x / 2 cup powdered sugar, the beaten white of 1 
egg and lemon juice to taste. Do not make until just be- 
fore serving and mix with the salad the last minute. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Select tomatoes of one size and not too large, cut them 
in two cross-wise and scoop out the inside , chop this 
with onion, cucumber, celery and peppers. Let drain and 
season with salt, pepper, a little vinegar and olive oil. 
Fill the tomato shells with this mixture and cover with 
boiled dressing that has been mixed with whipped cream. 
Dust with red pepper. Mrs. Geo. S. Davis. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

2 cups minced chicken, 2 cups celery cut fine. 

DRESSING. 
1 cup vinegar, piece butter size of an egg. Put into 
double boiler. When hot add the beaten yolks of 4 eggs. 
Stir all the time till thick to prevent curdling. When 
perfectly cold add 1 cup of cream or milk to which add 
1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. sugar, 1 of dry mustard and a little 
pepper. Mix, pour over chicken just before serving. 
Stir all together. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

SALAD. 

Equal parts of celery, apples and figs. Serve on a let- 
tuce leaf with a rich cream dressing. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

61 



FRUIT SALAD. 

Cut up into small pieces, 3 oranges, 3 bananas, 3 
apples, Yz can pineapple. Squeeze juice of 1 lemon and 
sprinkle sugar over fruit. This serves 12 people. 

SALAD. 

Equal parts of white cabbage and celery chopped. 2 
hard boiled eggs sliced. Cover with any salad dressing 
rich with cream. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

6 grape fruit, 3 lemons, */£ cup sugar, 1 box pulv. 
gelatine. Put 1 cup of water over gelatine and let stand 
a few minutes. When ready to use set dish in hot 
water and dissolve the gelatine without adding any 
more water. Scrape the center and juice from grape 
fruit, having grape fruit in very small particles, add juice 
of the lemons and sugar, then put the dissolved gelatine 
into the above and mold with hole in center and fill the 
hole with mayonnaise dressing. Or can be served in in- 
dividual molds with dressing. Mrs. Thomas M. Partridge. 

TOMATO AND MUSHROOM SALAD. 

6 large mushrooms , 6 medium tomatoes , 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, 34 tsp. celery salt. Peel tomatoes and put on ice 
to chill. Peel and break in good sized pieces 6 large 
mushrooms, saute them in butter for 3 minutes adding 
2 drops of onion juice and *4 tsp. celery salt, and dash 
of paprika; chill thoroughly, scoop out the inside of 
tomatoes to which add the mushrooms , mix with may- 
onnaise and fill the tomato cases putting a spoonful of 
mayonnaise mixed with whipped cream on top of each, 
serve on lettuce leaf. Mrs. Lockerby. 

62 



FRUIT SALAD. 

A nice salad may be made from crisp lettuce leaves , 
pineapple cut in diamond shape, 1 pound green grapes, 
2 bananas sliced , walnuts. Pour over mayonnaise dress- 
ing, decorate with whipped cream and cherries. 

Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD. 

Rub a bowl lightly with a garlic clove, line with lettuce 
leaves , fill with tomatoes and cucumbers , grate Roque- 
fort cheese and mix with French dressing. Pour over all 
and serve. Mrs. Charles Frink. 

POTATO CUCUMBER SALAD. 

10 boiled potatoes, sliced very thin, 3 small cucum- 
bers , 3 sticks of celery sliced , 6 cold boiled eggs , 1 small 
onion grated. Put into a dish a layer of potatoes, cu- 
cumbers, celery, egg and a sprinkle of onion until used. 

Mrs. J. R. Hughes. 

DRESSING. 

Beat 3 eggs well, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tbsp. sugar, 
1 tsp. salt, y 2 tsp. mustard, stir until smooth and add 
1 cup vinegar. Cook in double boiler, stirring until 
smooth. When cold add J/> cup sweet or sour cream 
beaten ; before serving pour over the salad. 

Mrs. J. R. Hughes. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

In a sauce pan put V2 can of tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, 4 
cloves, l / 2 tsp. salt, 10 drops onion juice, simmer 15 
minutes, and press through a sieve, add 1-3 box of gela- 
tine which has been soaked in 1-3 cup of cold water 
and stir until it dissolves. Pour into wet moulds. Serve 
on lettuce with salad dressing. 

63 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil chicken until tender. Let cool, then remove fat, 
gristle and skin. Cut the meat into dice. Take the same 
quantity of celery as of chicken. Cut celery into small 
pieces. Mix well and set in a cool place. Use any good 
salad dressing. A dash of paprika if desired. Garnish dish 
with lettuce, hard boiled eggs or red beets. 

Mrs J. W. Moorhead. 

BEET SALAD. 

Cut beets in y 2 inch cubes , add equal amount of 
shelled pecans, mix with any desired dressing, garnish with 
chopped red cabbage. Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

DUTCH CHEESE SALAD. 

2 cups of cottage cheese, V 2 can chili peppers, 2 doz. 
green olives , y 2 cup walnut meats chopped , 1 cup thick 
sour cream , 2 tbsp. salad dressing. Serve with whipped 
cream. Mix in order given. Chop chilis and olives, add 
sour cream, and serve on lettuce leaves with salad dress- 
ing. Add whipped cream if desired. Miss Gertie I. Chase. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

y 2 cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, y 2 tsp. mustard, y 2 tbsp. 
cornstarch, beat 3 eggs in saucepan, add ^4 cup milk, 
beat, add V^ cup vinegar and *4 cup water. Beating will 
keep from curdling. Put over fire and add the dry in- 
gredients. Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

SALAD DRESSING. (Especially for fruit salad.) 

y cup sugar , 1 cup vinegar , % cup butter , yolks of 
8 eggs. 1 tbsp. mustard, 1 tsp. salt, little red pepper. 
For fruit salad mix a little dressing with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 
64 



PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

1 can pineapple sliced, 1 package of Neufchatel cheese, 
maraschino cherries and lettuce, salad dressing. Place 
slices of pineapple on lettuce leaf. Pour a little salad 
dressing around the edge of the pineapple. Grate a few 
rlakes of cheese over all. Place the cherries around the 
pineapple and fill the cavity with whipped cream. 

Miss Gertie I. Chase. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

2 eggs well beaten, 1 tsp. mustard, 2 tsp. sugar; but- 
ter size of a walnut, 1-3 cup vinegar, 1-3 cup water, 34 
tsp. salt. Mix mustard, sugar and salt together. Add the 
well beaten eggs, melted butter, vinegar and water. 
Place over the fire, stir constantly and cook until thick. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Palmer. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat 2 eggs until light , pour over them 4 tbsp. of vin- 
egar just brought to the boiling point, and cook over hot 
water until it thickens. Remove from fire and add 2 
tbsp. of butter and set aside to cool. When ready to use, 
whip 1 cup of cream, add to the cooled mixture, stirring 
well, season to taste. Mrs. A. E. Benjamin. 

ORANGE AND WALNUT SALAD. 

4 oranges , 20 English walnuts , lettuce , mayonnaise 
dressing. Peel the oranges, stripping off all the white 
inner skin and put them on ice for several hours. When 
cold divide each lobe into 3 or 4 pieces. Throw the 
walnut meats into boiling water and let them lie there 
3 minutes. Drain, remove the skin and break into small 
pieces. Add to the oranges and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. Place in head lettuce cups with spoonful of 
whipped cream on top. Mrs. Lockerby. 

65 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

}i tsp. salt, % tsp. cayenne, 1 tsp. vinegar or lemon 
juice, 3 tsp. oil. Pour into a bottle and shake well. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Place a round of pineapple on a lettuce leaf and fill 
the center with red bar le due. Dice, Neufchatel or cream 
cheese and arrange it around the edge of the pineapple. 
Serve wtih sweetened boiled dressing to which has been 
added whipped cream. Mrs. A. F. Daggett. 

SALAD OF FRUITS. 

3 bananas, 1 head celery, 1 apple, 1 cup walnuts, 18 
raisins. Arrange on lettuce leaves with a mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Small dice of pineapple , white grapes , orange , bits of 
celery, English walnuts, juice of 3^ lemon, pinch of 
cayenne pepper. Cover with sugar. Let stand a while. 
Serve. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

2 cans pineapple, 2 pounds Malaga or Tokay grapes. 
2 cans white cherries, 1 lb. shelled pecans, half the 
whole amount of celery, cut up fine, few maraschino 
cherries. 

DRESSING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tbsp. sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. 
mustard, 1 tbsp. salt, pinch of paprika, 2-3 cup of vine- 
gar. Boil all together, while hot add beaten whites of 
eggs and when cool add 4 tbsp. port wine and a pt. of 
whipped cream. Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

66 



RAISIN AND CELERY SALAD. 
2 cups celery , 2 oranges chopped into bits and 1 cup of 
seeded raisins washed and halved. Add ]/ 2 cup grated 
apple to 1 cup mayonnaise and mix celery and raisins. 
Grate some orange rind and sprinkle over all also a little 
bit of lemon juice. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes by first plunging in boiling 
water. Remove a thin slice from stem end of each, and re- 
move seeds and some of the pulp , sprinkle the inside with 
salt , invert, and let stand y 2 hour. Fill tomatoes with 
equal portions of celery and walnuts, cut in pieces and 
mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with dressing or with a shrimp, or with a 
pimola. The tomatoes may be stuffed with chicken and 
celery and olives or with cucumbers instead of celery and 
nuts. (Boiled dressing may be used instead of mayon- 
naise.) 



C7 



Cheese Dishes 



As soon as the tarts and cheese cakes 

Made their appearance, 

He quitted his seat and stood aloof. 

SANDWICH FILLING. 

A ten cent can of cheese, 2 tbsp. mayonnaise 
dressing, a dash of tobasco sauce, 1 small stalk 
of celery, 1 large green sweet pepper, 2 dozen pecan 
nuts, chopped. Chop the peppers and celery fine and 
press out the juice well. Add to the other ingredients. 
Mix. Spread between crackers or sandwich bread. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Chop stuffed olives fine and mix with salad dressing. 
Spread over thin slices of bread and butter. Queen 
olives cut from the stones may be served in the same 
way. Mrs. William Gawne. 

CHEESE AND GINGER SANDWICH. 

Chop preserved stem ginger very fine, add syrup from 
jar or unsweetened cream, mix ginger and liquid into 
equal bulk of cream cheese. Spread this on buttered 
bread. Very good with tea. Mrs. W. M. Strange. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Whip white of one egg very stiff, add a pinch of salt 
and dry mustard and red pepper, and sufficient grated 
cheese to make into little balls. Fry in deep lard and 
serve hot with any salad. Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

68 



HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Use bread 1 day old. Make sandwiches by buttering 
1 side of the bread and putting in a very thin slice of 
cream cheese. A thin layer of orange marmalade may be 
used instead of the cheese. Put the sandwiches on a 
cooky tin. Slide into a very hot oven and bake until 
a delicate brown. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 

WELSH RABBIT. 

Take 1^4 lb. of soft American cheese and cut or chop 
it into dice. Put into chafing dish, 1 tbsp. butter and 
about 2 tbsp. of beer or ale ; if milk is preferred use that 
instead of beer, add 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, 1 tsp. 
of dry mustard , 34 saltspoon of cayenne (or 1 tsp. of 
paprika) and blend thoroughly. Add cheese, constantly 
stirring and if necessary to produce an even, smooth, 
liquid consistency, add more beer or milk. When the 
mixture is creamy, pour over toast or crackers and 
serve. Have toast prepared beforehand and keep hot. 

CHEESE CONES. 

Take 2 cup of hot mashed potato, add 1 of grated 
cheese , season with salt and paprika. Mold in small cups , 
turn out on a buttered tin , sprinkle with grated bread 
crumbs and on top of each cone place a bit of butter. 
Brown in the oven and serve very hot. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Take 3^2 cup of grated cheese , add the same quantity of 
bread crumbs , season with salt and white pepper, and bind 
together with the beaten whites of two eggs. Form into 
small croquettes , dredge with bread crumbs and fry in 
deep hot fat. Drain and serve at once with a garnish of 
parsley and sliced lemon. 

69 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

3 tbsp butter, 3 tbsp. flour, yi cup milk, 3 eggs, 1 
tsp. of salt, 1 cup grated cheese. Mix together and 
cook 2 minutes. Remove from fire and add the well 
beaten yolks and cheese. Cool, then add the whites of 
the eggs beaten very stiff. Turn into a buttered dish 
and bake from 20 to 25 minutes. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Harry Lackore. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE. 

y 2 lb. cream cheese, piece of butter size of cheese, 1 
tbsp. of chopped parsley , scant y 2 cup chopped nuts. 
Grate cheese and cream with the butter. Mould and 
turn out. Put y 2 the walnut meats on top. 

Mrs. C. H. Frink. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

3 tbsp. butter, 3 tbsp. flour, y cup milk, 3 eggs, y 2 
tsp. salt , y 2 tsp. pepper ; 1 cup grated cheese. Put the 
butter into a saucepan and when hot add the flour and 
stir until smooth , add the milk and seasoning. Cook 2 
minutes. Remove to the back of the stove and add the 
well beaten yolks and the cheese. Set away to cool. 
When cold add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Turn into a buttered pan and bake from 20 to 
25 minutes. Serve immediately. Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 



70 



Bread and Rolls 

"Bread is the Staff of Life." 

MOTHER'S BREAD. 

Dissolve 1 cake of yeast foam in a pt. of hike warm 
water. Add sufficient flour to make a thin batter. Beat 
hard for 5 minutes. Cover and set in a warm place to 
raise. In summer about 2 hours, in winter a little longer. 
Sift V/ 2 qts. of flour into a bread pan. Scald 1 qt. of 
milk. When cooled to hike warm, add a tsp. of salt and 
pour over the flour. Add the sponge batter and beat 
with a heavy cake spoon for about 10 minutes. If neces- 
sary, add more flour to make a stiff dough. Put on a 
floured bread board and knead until the dough is elastic 
and glistening. Put the dough in a pan, cover and set 
in a warm place to raise over night. No flour should 
be added after the kneading. Early in the morning, 
grease the hands with butter and gently knead down. 
Raise, before very light, cut into 1 lb. pieces, shape into 
loaves and put in single tins. Raise again until loaves 
are almost double in size. Put in a moderate oven and 
bake from ^ to 1 hour. The success of good bread 
making depends upon keeping the temperature of the 
dough moderate. If it is allowed to become too hot or 
too cold, the bread is spoiled. The flour should be 
sifted thoroughly to allow the air to mix through the 
flour. Always sift before measuring. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 
71 



PRIZE BREAD. 

Bread made from this receipt took three prizes at a 
fair. $1.00 from fair association, 1 barrel of flour from 

1 mill and $10.00 in money from another mill. 

1 qt. water, 1 qt. milk, 1 tbsp. of lard, 1 tbsp. sugar, y 2 
cup home made yeast was used, any good yeast will do, 
one cake, tbsp. salt (scant). Mix all ingredients to- 
gether, mould down hard the night before, wrap pan up 
in blanket and put in warm place. In morning knead 
again, when it raises next time, mould into loaves. Let 
it raise again in pans. When raised enough wet top of 
bread, which keeps crust soft. It takes from 40 minutes to 
an hour to bake in slow oven, depends somewhat on 
size of loaf. Use potato water if desired instead of plain 
water. Mrs. J. F. W. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

1 pt. luke warm water, tsp. salt, ^ tsp. soda. Make 
stiff batter in earthen bowl, set to rise in kettle of warm 
water, keep at same temperature. When light add pt. 
of luke warm water and flour to make soft sponge. Let 
rise again, add flour, knead well, put in loaves. Great 
care must be taken that bread be kept at an even heat. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

YEAST. 

A double handful of hops in a thin bag, 1 qt. of boil- 
ing water, 1 qt. of potatoes cut into small pieces, boil 
potatoes with hops until done, cover tight all the time. 
Mash potatoes then pour boiling hop water over them. 
Add 2 tbsp. sugar, 2 of ginger, 1 of salt, and let it stand 
until just warm. Add 1 cupful of yeast or 1 yeast cake, 
put in a jug and set in cool place. This yeast will keep 

2 months in winter and 2 weeks in summer in a cool 
place. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

72 



BROWN BREAD. 

1 egg, \ l /' 2 cups sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, y 2 cup molasses, 
Y\ cup cornmeal, iy cups graham flour, l / 2 cup white 
flour. Salt. Bake 1 hour. Mrs. W. B. MacLean. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 well beaten egg, 1 cup molasses, 1-3 cup sugar, \y 2 
cup sour milk or butter milk, 2 even tsp. of soda dis- 
solved in a little hot water, J / 2 tsp. salt. Graham flour 
to make like soft ginger bread. Bake in slow oven about 
1 hour. Mrs. William C. Willets. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 cup flour (white), 3 cups graham flour, 2 cups sour 
milk, 1 tsp. baking powder, V 2 tsp. soda, scant y 2 cup 
sugar, a little salt. Mix. Bake in a loaf. 

Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

3 cups graham flour, 2 cups sweet milk, y 2 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 tsp. soda not even not heaping, pinch of salt. 
Bake 45 to 50 minutes. Makes one loaf. 

Gladys A. Campbell. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

1 pt. milk, 1 pt. flour, 1 yeast cake dissolved in y 2 cup 
hike warm water, let stand y 2 hour, then add 1 pt. flour, 
1 tbsp. lard, 2 tbsp. sugar, 1 tsp. salt. Mix altogether 
twenty minutes, then let rise until light, when light 
make into little rolls put into pans, let rise again, bake 
20 minutes in hot oven. In hot weather mix the dough 
in the morning and at 6 o'clock they are ready to bake. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 
73 



CINNAMON ROLLS. 

2 cups flour, 2 heaping tsp. baking powder, 2 tbsp. su- 
gar, 1 tbsp. melted lard, little salt, enough sweet milk to 
make a soft dough. Roll thin and cover with melted but- 
ter, cinnamon, raisins and thin pieces of citron. Roll 
and cut in 1 inch pieces, bake quickly and serve at once. 

A. L. MacLean. 

ROLLS. 

1 qt. warm milk, 1 cup sugar, £4 cll P butter, 1 tbsp. 
salt, 1 cake compressed yeast. Flour to make stiff bat- 
ter. Do not knead — stir stiff with spoon. Add 2 eggs 
beaten lightly, last thing. Set to rise. When light roll 
out — form as Parker House rolls or any desired shape. 

Mrs. D. P. Ensign. 

BISCUIT. 

Warm a pan with hot water, for biscuit take about 
pint of sponge. Break in an egg, add 1 tbsp. sugar, and 
1 tbsp. melted butter. Beat with fork until well mixed. 
Add enough flour to put down in a medium hard sponge. 
Allow this to rise and when light roll out to J / 2 inch 
thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter. Brush each biscuit 
with melted butter and sprinkle a little sugar on top. 
Fold each in half and let rise in pans until light. Bake 
in medium oven. Mrs. Chas. Sandborn. 

ROLLS. 

% cake compressed yeast, 2]/ 2 cups milk, little salt, 
flour to make like bread sponge, 2 heaping tbsp. sugar, 
raise 4 hrs. Then add ]/2 cup butter, 2 eggs. Mix a lit- 
tle stiffer than cookies. Roll out and cut with cooky 
cutter. Butter and fold over. Let rise 2 or 3 hrs. and 
bake. Mrs. Powell. 

74 



NUT BREAD. 

4 cups flour, 4 heaping tsp. of baking powder, 1 tsp. 
salt, y 2 cup sugar. Sift altogether then add 2 cups sweet 
milk, 1 egg beaten into the milk, 2 cups walnuts 
(broken). Raise 20 minutes, bake y hr. This makes 
2 loaves. Mrs. H. D. Bliss. 

NUT BREAD. 

1 pt. flour, 2 heaping tsp. baking powder, y cup sugar, 
1 cup chopped walnuts, y 2 tsp. salt. Mixed and add 
enough sweet milk to make a very stiff batter. Put in 
a bread tin, let stand in a warm place 20 minutes and 
bake 30 to 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

NUT BROWN BREAD. 

Mix 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup white flour, y 2 tsp. 
salt, 1 tbsp. brown sugar, ]/ 2 cup broken nut meats, y 2 
cup raisins and dates (chopped). When well mixed add 
two tbsp. of molasses, 1 tsp. soda in 1 tbsp. hot water, 
\y 2 cups sour milk. Bake at once for about 45 minutes. 
Must not be too stiff. C. R. F. 

NUT BROWN BREAD. 

24 cup graham flour, 3/£ cup white flour, y cup mo- 
lasses, 34 cup or more nuts, y. cups sweet milk, 1 tsp. 
baking powder. Mix and put at once into pans. Let 
stand for 20 minutes or so, then bake. Very nice for 
thin sandwiches. Mrs. Milton O. Nelson. 

MUFFINS. 

3 tbsp. butter, 3 tbsp. sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups 
flour, 2 tsp. baking powder. Mary L. Norton. 

75 



SOUTHERN BISCUITS. 

1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. sugar, 2 teacups warm milk, 1 
yeast, compressed, 1 tsp. salt, 2 eggs, 4 large cups flour. 
Mix at 10 in the morning, let raise until 3, then pour 
on board and pat until y 2 inch thick. Cut with biscuit 
cutter, spread on melted butter, putting 2 together, 
spread on top with butter, let raise until 6 and bake 15 
minutes. Mrs. M. A. Green. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 

Butter size of an egg, y 2 cup sugar creamed , 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2 eggs well beaten, 3 scant cups flour, 2 tsp. 
baking powder in flour, 2 cups fresh blueberries, dredged 
in some of the flour. Mrs. Ernest Z. Wanous. 

POP-OVERS. 

2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 cups milk. Beat all together 
with egg beater until batter is light and frothy. Fill 
muffin tins 1-3 full and bake 20 minutes increasing the 
heat after they rise. Gladys A. Campbell. 

GRAHAM, RYE OR WHEAT GEMS. 

1^2 cups graham, rye or whole wheat, y 2 cup white 
flour, j4 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, y 2 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking 
powder, 1 egg, 1 large tbsp. shortening. Beat quickly 
and bake in hot gem pans. Bacon drippings add a deli- 
cate flavor to the graham gems. C. M. H. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 

2 tbsp. butter, 4 tbsp. sugar, 1 egg, beaten together 
until very light, 1 tsp. salt, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups 
flour, 3 heaping tsp. baking powder, 2-3 cup blueberries. 

Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 
76 



GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

1 cup graham flour, 1 cup wheat flour, 1 cup sweet 
milk, V 2 cup sugar (scant), 1 egg, 3 tsp. baking powder. 
Bake in well buttered tins and moderately hot oven. 
Use same recipe with 2 cups wheat flour or 1 cup corn 
meal and 1 of wheat flour. Mrs. N. S. Davis. 

PENNY MUFFINS. 

Soak 1 cake yeast in y 2 cup warm water until soft, 2 
cups warm water, 2 tbsp. lard, 2 eggs beaten, l /> cup sugar, 
1 tbsp. salt. As much flour as can be stirred in, let it set in 
a warm place 18 hours, then make into biscuits and let rise 2 
hours, bake in gem pans in a very hot oven. Opal S. Fay. 

CRANBERRY MUFFINS. 

Cream 1-3 cup butter, gradually beat Y\ cup sugar into 
this. Add 1 egg beaten separately very light, add ^ 
cup milk, 2 cups sifted flour and sifted again with 2 
rounded tsp. baking powder and )A tsp. salt. When well 
mixed beat in 1 cup cranberries cut in halves. Bake 25 
minutes in well buttered muffin pans. 

Ellen Brooks. 

BLUE BERRY CAKE. 

1 pt. blueberries, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, 2>y 2 
cups flour, 2 eggs, V 2 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. cream tartar, or 2 
tsp. baking powder. Harriet C. Dodge. 

CORN BREAD (Fine). 

2 eggs, }/ 2 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 
3 tsp. baking powder, \)A cups flour, ^4 cup cornmeal, 
a little salt. Should not be much thicker than sponge 
cake. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

77 



SOUTHERN SOFT CORN BREAD. 

1 egg beaten light, 1 qt. milk, 1 cup yellow cornmeal, 
y 2 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder. Mix together, pour 
into baking pan, put bits of butter over the top about 2 
tbsp. in all. Bake 25 minutes as it bakes stir it about, 
every 5 minutes, serve in the same dish accompanied by 
jelly. Must be served with a spoon. 

Mrs. J. C. Clark, St. Cloud. 

GOOD JOHNNY CAKE. 
1 cup cornmeal, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sour milk, 1 level 
tsp. soda, 1 tbsp. of sugar, 1 tbsp. melted butter or lard, 
1 egg, a pinch of salt. Beat sugar and egg then add milk 
and flour and melted butter last. 

Mrs. William Moorhead. 

FRUIT GEMS. 

1 teacupful of milk, 1 cupful of wheat flour, a pinch of 
salt, 1 beaten egg, add chopped raisins, figs, dates, to- 
gether or separate, roll the fruit in dry flour. Suit your 
taste as to amount of fruit. If a little sweet cream is 
used in mixing the dough, the cakes will be nice enough 
for dessert or a lunch for traveling. 

Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

PRUNE ROLLS. 

Soak y 2 pound of prunes overnight. Stew until very 
tender and run through colander to remove stones and 
skins. If not sweet enough add a little sugar. Use any 
good receipt for rolls. Roll out thin, cut with biscuit 
cutter. Dip each round in melted butter (half lard will 
do) and on top of each biscuit put 1 large tsp. of prunes. 
Let rise very light before baking. Chopped almonds 
sprinkled over top make a nice addition. 

Mrs. J. C. Moodey. 

78 



WAFFLES— EXCELLENT. 

Beat 1 egg light, add 1 pint milk, 1 pt. flour, 2 round- 
ing tsps. baking powder, 1 tbsp. melted butter, y 2 tsp. 
salt. H. G. H. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

2 cups flour, 4 tsp. rounded of baking powder, y> tsp. 
salt, fi cup milk, 2 tsp. butter. Sift the flour, baking 
powder and salt together. Mix it and the butter with 
the hands. Then add the milk, stirring a little in at a 
time. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

PIN WHEEL BISCUIT. 

2 cups flour, 2 tbsp. sugar, 4 tsp. baking powder, ]/ 2 
tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. butter, 2-3 cup milk. Roll out thin, 
spread lightly with butter, sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon, y 2 cup raisins, 2 tbsp. finely chopped citron. Roll 
out and cut 1 inch thick. Lay flat on pan, bake in hot 
oven. Mrs. Ella Clark. 

ENTIRE WHEAT GEMS. 

8 tbsp. of entire wheat flour, 2 tbsp. baking powder, 
1 tbsp. sugar, pinch of salt, 2 tbsp. melted butter. Add 
enough milk to make batter stiff enough to drop from 
spoon. This makes 8 gems. Florence McDonough. 

OAT MEAL WAFERS. 

\ l / 2 cups oat meal, y 2 cup prepared cocoanut, 1 level tsp. 
salt, 1 level tsp. baking powder, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs well 
beaten, then add 1 tbsp. melted butter. Drop y 2 tsp. on but- 
tered tins about 4 inches apart. Leave 1 minute on tin after 
taking from oven. Do not allow to cool or they will break. 

Mrs. Longsdorf. 



79 



CHEESE STICKS. 

1 cup grated cheese, % tsp. salt, 2-3 cup flour, 2 
tbsp. of milk, 1 cup of fine breadcrumbs, 1 tbsp. of but- 
ter. Cream butter and flour, crumbs and cheese. Mix 
thoroughly and add milk. Roll J4 mcn thick, cut J /\. 
inch wide, 5 inches long, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

STEAMED GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 cups sweet milk, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup white 
flour, % cup sugar and molasses, (mixed 1 tsp. small) 
soda, 2 tsp. baking powder. Steam 1% hours. Bake 15 
minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

1 pt. hot milk , 2 tbsp. butter , 2 tbsp. sugar , 1 tsp. salt , 
Y\ yeast cake if mixed at night , or, )A yeast cake if mixed 
in the morning, flour. Pour the hot milk on the butter, 
salt and sugar, and when cooled, add the yeast cake which 
has been softened in lukewarm water. Add 3 cups of flour 
to make a sponge , beat and put to rise. When light and 
spongy, add flour to make a stiff dough and knead until 
smooth and elastic to the touch. Let rise until double its 
former bulk. Knead again, if necessary, and roll the 
dough ]/?. inch thick. Lift from the board and let it shrink 
before cutting, so that the rolls may be of uniform shape. 
Cut with a round or oval cutter, place a bit of butter near 
the edge of the dough, then fold over so that the edges are 
even. Press the roll to prevent its separating as it rises. 
Place the rolls on a sheet to rise and when light, bake in a 
hot oven. Use part of the dough for bread sticks. Roll a 
small piece of dough into a ball, then into a stick, which 
should be a foot long and about the diameter of the little 
finger. Bake in a moderate oven until brown. 

80 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

1 cup flour, 1 tsp. salt, y^ cup grated cheese, a few 
grains cayenne, 2 tbsp. butter, ]/ 2 tsp. baking powder. 
Milk enough to make a soft dough. Sift flour, pepper, 
baking powder together, cut in butter, then grated 
cheese. Add milk slowly using enough to make a soft 
dough. Toss on a lightly floured board, roll out light- 
ly, cut in strips the length of a pencil, also make some 
small rings. Bake in a hot oven until light brown. Put 
the sticks through one or two rings. Mrs. Quinby. 

KUGELHUPF. 

1 compressed yeast cake dissolved in cup of luke 
warm milk' and enongh warmed flour to make a thick 
batter. Set to rise. When light add 1 cup of warm 
milk, ]/2 cup sugar, J4 CU P melted butter and flour to 
make about consistency of cake. Beat in 3 eggs 1 at a 
time. Add a little salt. Let rise. Pour the dough into 
a cake pan with tube in center filling about y 2 full. 
When nearly full bake in medium hot oven. Raisins 
(13^2 cups) and blanched almonds may be added. 

Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 

GERMAN BREAD CAKE. 

12 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 cups 
granulated sugar, 1 cup toasted white bread crumbs 
grated and sifted, y 2 tsp. salt, J4 lb. grated almonds (not 
blanched), l /\ lb. grated citron, 1 grated lemon rind, 1 
tsp. each cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 tsp. baking 
powder mixed in bread crumbs. Mix sugar and yolks, 
then other ingredients, last of all whites of eggs. Bake 
in angel food tins 1 hour in moderate oven. Very fine. 

Mrs. Charles H. Johnson. 
81 



KUCHEN. 

Put into 1 scant pt. of sifted flour a pinch of salt, tsp. 
of baking- powder and sift. Add 2 tbsp. of sugar. Rub 
in a piece of butter size of an egg. Break an egg into a 
cup and fill not quite full of milk. Mix with the flour to 
make a soft dough. Roll out put in tin, place sliced ap- 
ples on the top sprinkling a little sugar, cinnamon and 
sweet cream. Bake in moderate oven until apples are 
done. Sliced peaches or prunes may be used. Pre- 
pare the prunes thus: Soak over night 1 lb. of prunes. 
Stew until tender. Stone them and boil down the juice, 
adding a little sugar. Place the prunes very carefully 
in rows upon the kuchen ; squeeze on the juice of }4 a 
lemon and add a little of the sweetened prune juice. 
Bake until crust is done. May be served hot as dessert. 

Mrs. Ouinby. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

2 cups flour, 2 cups sweet milk (scant), T / 2 tsp. salt, 2 
tsp. melted butter, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tgg may be 
used but not necessary. 

Graham or cornmeal cakes may be made by the same 
rule using }/ 2 or 1-3 of the meal for variety. Some milk 
may be substituted, 1 tsp. to the cup. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

1 cup buckwheat, T / 2 cup cornmeal, )/ 2 cup flour, y 2 
tsp. salt, y 2 yeast cake, 2 cups boiling water. Scald the 
meal with the water, add salt, beat well, when cool add 
flour and buckwheat, add yeast cake (dissolved). Let 
stand over night, in morning pour off discolored water 
and add y 2 cup milk in which %. tsp. soda has been dis- 
solved. Beat well, let rise a little while. 1 tbsp. mo- 
lasses added if liked. 

82 



HEFEN— KRANZ. 

Yz pt. milk, y 2 cup sugar, 3 oz. butter, Y\ lb. raisins 
(seeded), % lb. citron (cut small), 3 eggs, 34 lb. al- 
monds (blanched, chopped), flour. A little more sugar, 
melted butter, cinnamon, white of an egg. 

Make a sponge of 1 yeast cake, )/\ cup each of milk 
and water and a little flour. Let rise 10 or 15 minutes, 
when light add the *-2 pt. milk, sugar, butter, eggs and 
flour enough to make a soft dough. Beat in a warm 
place with a wooden spoon y^ of an hour. Let rise over 
night. Next morning (early) roll thin and spread with 
melted butter, roll up, repeat 3 times, after the 3 time 
sprinkle on a little sugar and cinnamon then the rai- 
sins, citron and most of the almonds. Roll into a wreath 
and spread top with the white of an egg well beaten, 
and rest of almonds (chopped or in halves). Let rise 
and bake about 1 hour. Should be eaten while fresh. 

Bake in a pan 12 inches in diameter, three and one- 
half (3 x /2) inches deep, with a tube 4 inches in diam- 
eter. Can be commenced in the morning and baked by 
2 :30. Mrs. H. A. Turtle. 



83 



Cake 



Beware of the warning, 
"Lest your cake be dough." 

GENERAL RULES FOR CAKE MAKING. 

In selecting the material be sure to get the winter 
wheat flour, known to the trade as pastry flour, for 
while spring wheat flour is the best for bread, it is im- 
possible to have perfect success, especially with the 
more delicate cakes, when this is used. 

For Angel, Sunshine and all Sponge Cakes, sift flour 
three or four times before measuring in order to light- 
en it. When baking powder is used sift flour once, then 
measure, add baking powder and sift until thoroughly 
mixed. When cream of tartar and soda is used instead 
of baking powder, add the cream of tartar to the egg 
when half beaten and the soda to the flour, in the same 
way as baking powder is used. Always add the cream 
of tartar to the whites of eggs when making cake con- 
taining both whites and yolks, but beaten separate. 

When substituting cream of tartar and soda for bak- 
ing powder, use in the proportion of 1 tsp. of cream of 
tartar and a scant half tsp. of soda to two tsp. of baking 
powder which is the required amount for any cake of 
ordinary size. 

Granulated sugar is the best although some have failed 
by using it since it is heavier than the soft sugars, it re- 
quires 1-5 less to give the same result. Sugar should be 
sifted once to take out any lumps of foreign matter. 

Eggs should be fresh and cold. It is immaterial as to 

84 



the kind of beater used in beating the yolks, only that 
they are beaten thoroughly to a quick froth. Very few- 
take the time to beat them as they should be and conse- 
quently the cake is heavy and has the strong taste of 
the eggs which would not be the case were the yolks 
thoroughly beaten. Rotary beaters do not fill the air 
cells but toughen the egg; therefore the cake will not 
raise to the required lightness and will be tough. Es- 
pecially is this true in Angel, Sunshine or Sponge Cake. 

To cream butter and sugar, especially when the butter 
is hard, warm the sugar slightly, this will soften the but- 
ter without melting it and will save time and labor. 

In mixing cakes there are two rules which are very im- 
portant and should be remembered. The first applies 
to cakes containing butter and milk; they should be 
stirred or beaten thoroughly, especially after the flour is 
added. The second applies to Sponge Cakes and includes 
all cakes that do not contain butter or milk ; these 
should never be stirred, but sugar and other ingredients 
beaten in, being careful to beat up to keep the batter 
light, and the flour should be added last and folded light- 
ly through, being careful not to overdo this for every 
stroke of the spoon after the flour is added, tends to 
toughen the batter. This is one cause of so many tough 
sponge cakes. All cakes should be baked in ungreased 
molds, and all the loaf cakes excepting those containing 
fruit or nuts, should be inverted and allowed to hang- in 
the mold to cool, which is the only way known to keep 
them from settling. In this way cakes do not require 
as much flour or to be made as stiff as in the old way 
and are far more delicate. 

The last important part is the baking which with a 
little care can be easily mastered. The rule is to allow 
the cake to raise to the desired lightness before brown- 

85 



ing over, then increase the heat and bake as fast as pos- 
sible without burning; therefore the lighter the batter, 
when put into the oven the hotter the oven can be. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 3 cups raisins, 
3 cups currants, 6 eggs, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 tbsp. mace 
and cinnamon , 1 tsp. soda , 1 wine glass wine or brandy , 
y 2 lb. citron. Bake 3 hours in a very slow oven. 

Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups sugar , 1 cup butter, creamed , 1 cup sour cream , 
1 tsp. soda dissolve in the cream , 3 eggs well beaten , 
2^2 cups of flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, y 2 tsp. cloves, pinch 
salt , 1 pound raisins , 1 cup nut meats, chopped. Bake 
1 hour in slow oven. Mrs. William C. Willets. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups brown or white sugar, 2-3 cup of butter, 4 
eggs, 1 cup of jelly or molasses, 1 granted nutmeg, 2 
tsp. cinnamon , 2 tsp. alspice , 1 cup strong coffee , 1 tsp. 
soda, 2 lbs. raisins stoned, 1 lb. currants, 5 cups flour, 
a little salt. Bake \y 2 hours in a slow oven. 

Mrs. William Moorhead. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

\y 2 cupfuls of sugar, y 2 cupful sweet milk, y 2 cupful 
cornstarch, y 2 cupful butter, \y 2 cups pastry flour, whites 
of six eggs , 2 even tsp. of baking powder , make a boiled 
icing, when cool add about 1-3 of a lb. of marshmallows, 
that have been melted by putting in the oven a few minutes , 
stir hard until thoroughly mixed. Mrs. Geo. H. Crosby. 

86 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

6 eggs, 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup butter, Yi cup sweet 
milk, 3 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 lb. raisins, 
1 cup of figs, 1 lb. candied cherries, bits of orange peel, 
juice and grated rind of lemon. Mrs. R. A Ensign. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, ^ cup butter, }4 cup lard, 2 cups milk, 
^2 cup raisins , y 2 cup citron , 2 tsp. lemon , pinch salt 
and a little nutmeg, 4 cups floui , 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Mrs. A. P. Mather. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Put 2 qts. of capped berries in a colander and pour 
cold water over them. Reserve a few of the choicest ones 
to be used as a garnish. Cut the others in halves and 
mix with a cup and a half of sugar. Set in a warm place 
for an hour or two. Make a soft dough of 2 cups of 
sifted flour , 3 full tsp. of baking powder , 1-3 of a cup 
of butter, 1 egg, ^ of a cup of sweet milk and 1 tsp. 
of salt. Divide the dough and roll into 2 pieces to fit 
a round pan. Spread the layers with softened butter, 
place one on top of the other, and bake for 15 or 20 
minutes. When done pull the layers apart and put a 
layer of sweetened berries between and another on top. 
Serve on round plates with whipped cream and the 
whole berries. Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 

ROSE CREAM CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 scant cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3^ cups 
flour, whites of 8 eggs, sift the flour 5 times, 2 large tsp. of 
baking powder well mixed through the flour. Bake in 3 
layers, coloring the middle layer pink with fruit extract. 
Boiled icing, flavored slightly with extract of rose. 

Mrs. E. W Ensign. 
87 



CUP CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 
heaping cup stoned raisins, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tsp. 
soda, 1 grated nutmeg, 4 cups flour, 1 cup chopped cit- 
ron. This will make two loaves. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

SHORT CAKE. 

1 pt. flour , little salt , 2 tsp. baking powder , 2 tbsp. 
butter, 1 cup milk. Mix like biscuits. Bake in 2 layers 
with butter spread between. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

HERMIT CAKE. 

1 cup walnuts, 1 cup raisins, \ l / 2 cups sugar, 2 l / 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup milk, 1 cup shortening, 2 eggs, 2 tsp. of bak- 
ing powder, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. alspice. Last of all 
34 cup of boiling water with y 2 tsp. (small) of soda. 

Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses, ]/ 2 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. 
ginger , 1 tsp. cloves , 1 tsp. cinnamon , 2 tsp. soda , 1 
cup boiling water, 2}A cups flour, 2 eggs. Stir molasses, 
sugar, butter and spices together, then add soda dis- 
solved in the cup of hot water, add flour, then the eggs 
well beaten. Mrs. Joseph G. Palmer. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

Beat an egg thoroughly and add 1 scant cup sugar 
with which one large tbsp. of corn starch has been mixed 
by sifting. Add the grated yellow rind and juice of an 
orange and the juice of x / 2 lemon. Mix thoroughly and 
pour over the mixture 1 cup of boiling water. Cook, 
stirring all the time, until it thickens slightly. Cool be- 
fore using. 

88 



JELLY ROLL. 

Break 3 eggs into a dish and add, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 
1 heaping tsp. baking powder, y 2 cup cold water. Beat 
until thin and bubbling, then add flavoring. Bake in 2 
pans. Spread with jelly and roll. Mrs. Charles Bur well. 

MOCHA TART. 

5 eggs well beaten , 1 cup granulated sugar , 1 cup 
flour sifted 5 times, 1 tsp. baking powder, 2y 2 tbsp. 
Mocha Extract. Bake in layer tins, in slow oven for 20 
minutes. 

FILLING. 

\]/ 2 pt. whipped cream sweetened to taste, 2y 2 tbsp. 
Mocha Extract. Put between layers and on top. 

GOLD CAKE. 

This is exceedingly tender and delicious when made 
of sour cream. It may be baked in layers or in a loaf,, 
putting the white and yellow batters in streaks like a 
marble cake. For the yellow part, beat to a cream the 
yolks of 4 eggs, then add a cup of sug'ar and beat again. 
Add }i of a cup of thick sour cream into which has 
been stirred y 2 tsp. soda. Next fold in a cup and % 
of pastry flour that has been sifted several times over, 
and flavor with a little grated yellow rind of orange and 
a tsp. orange juice, or less of the extract. 

CHOCOLATE ROLL. 

Small cup sugar, large cup sifted flour, 3 eggs, beat 
whites first then add yolks, beat thoroughly, 2 tbsp. cold 
water, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. Bake in 
thin layers. 

89 



FILLING. 

2 squares chocolate, y 2 cup water, 1 tbsp. corn starch, 
3 tbsp. sugar. Cook until like custard. Spread while 
hot. Mrs. Ella Clark. 

EGGLESS APPLESAUCE CAKE. 

Cream together y 2 cup butter and 1 cup sugar. Add 
\]/2 cups apple sauce and 3 cups flour, 2 level tsp. soda 
dissolved in 1 tbs. water. Mix thoroughly and add 1 
tsp. cinnamon and 1 tsp. nutmeg. 1 cup chopped raisins 
and juice of 1 lemon. Bake in loaf in moderate oven. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

1 cup sugar , y 2 cup butter , 3 eggs , 2 cups flour , y 2 cup 
milk , \y 2 tsp. baking powder. Flavor with almond and 
bake in two layers. 

FILLING. 

)/ 2 pint cream , 2 egg yolks , 2 lbs. sugar , 1 large tsp. 
cornstarch. Cook well and when cool flavor with al- 
mond and add chopped almonds that have been blanched. 

FROSTING. 

1 cup sugar, J4 C "P water. Cook till it balls in cold 
water. Beat into the white of 1 egg. Flavor. 

C. M. H. 

FOR FILLING. 

1 cup milk, y 2 cup sugar, 2 egg yolks, small lump but- 
ter, 2 tsp. flour, 1 tps. vanilla, add whites of the eggs 
when cold. 

BOILED FROSTING. 
V 2 cup sugar , 1 tbsp. cream. Mrs. D. P. Ensign. 

90 



TWO EGG ANGEL FOOD. 
1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 3 tsp. baking powder, pinch 
of salt, sift together 4 times, into all this pour 1 cup 
boiling milk and stir till smooth. Then fold in the well 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Do not grease tin or flavor. 

Miss Grace Caplin. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

The whites of 11 eggs, \y 2 cups full of granulated 
sugar , 1 cup of pastry flour (measured after being sifted 
4 times) , 1 tsp. cream of tartar-, 1 of vanilla extract. Sift 
the flour and cream of tartar together. Beat the sugar 
into the eggs and add seasoning and flour, stirring quick- 
ly and lightly. Beat until ready to put mixture in the 
oven. Use a pan that has little legs at the top corner 
so that when the pan is turned upside down after baking 
a current of air will pass under and over it. Bake for 
40 minutes in a moderate oven. Do not grease the pan. 

Mrs. Chas. Hedwall. 

BUTTERMILK CAKE. 

1 coffee cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup but- 
termilk, 1 cup raisins, 1 tsp. soda, 2 cups flour, spices 
to suit taste. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cake German sweet chocolate, grated, 1 cup pow- 
dered sugar, 5 eggs beaten separately, 6 tbsp. flour; 2 
level tsp. baking powder. 

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKE. 

)/ 2 cup butter , 1 cup brown sugar , 1 cup flour , V 2 cup 
sour milk , l / 2 cup cocoanut , y cup chopped walnuts , 2 
sq. melted chocolate, 1 tsp, vanilla, y 2 tsp. soda, 3 eggs 
well beaten. Mrs. D. P. Ensign. 

91 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Y? cup butter, V/> cups sugar, ]/ 2 cup milk, 1 2-3 cups 
flour, 4 eggs beaten separately, \ l / 2 squares chocolate in 5 
tbsp. hot water (set over hot water to melt, 4 level tsp. 
baking powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. When all together beat hard 
for five minutes or more. Bake in slow oven for ten min- 
utes and gradually increase heat, watching carefully not to 
overbake. Mrs. F. T. Corriston. 

A QUICK CAKE. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 tbsp. of butter, 1-3 cup of 
milk or cream, 1 cup of flour before sifting, 1 heaping 
tsp. of baking powder in flour, still all together briskly 
a few minutes , bake 2 cakes in hot oven , can be baked 
and ready for table in 20 minutes. Mrs. O. C. Calhoun. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, then to- 
gether thoroughly , 1 cup sugar well beaten in , J / 2 cup 
potato flour with 1 tsp. baking powder folded in. Bake 
in angel food tin about 40 minutes in moderate oven. 
Add pinch salt and flavoring. Mrs. Arthur Alather. 

DATE LOAF. 

1 lb. dates, 1 lb. English walnuts, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
flour, pinch of salt, 4 eggs beaten separately, 2 tsp. 
vanilla , 2 tsp. baking powder. Bake 90 minutes. Keeps 
as well as fruit cake. Mrs. Chas. Oliver. 

BUTTER FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

% lb. freshened butter, 2 cups powdered sugar, yolks 
of two eggs. Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, then 
add the eggs and two tbsp. of cream. Flavor to taste. 
Cream all well together. Mrs. D. H. McMullen. 

92 



DEVILS FOOD. 

1 cup sugar, J4 cup butter (soft) , 1 egg, *4 cup sweet 
milk, 2 good tsp. baking powder, \]/ 2 cups flour; 2 
squares chocolate dissolved in Yz cup boiling water. Put 
all in a mixing bowl and beat five minutes or longer. 

Mrs. Hugh Wakefield. 

DEVILS FOOD. (Inexpensive and good.) 

1 cup sugar, x / 2 cup sour milk or cream (latter is 
best), 1 level tsp. soda, y 2 cup hot water, \y 2 
squares chocolate, 1*4 cups flour, 2 eggs, vanilla, pinch 
of salt. Put sugar, cream and soda together, dissolve 
chocolate in hot water. Save white of one egg for frost- 
ing. Beat the rest and add to cake mixture. Sift flour 
thoroughly and add. Frost with boiled frosting using 
remaining white of egg and one cup of sugar. Bake in 
a dripping pan in moderate oven. Mrs. J. C. Moodey. 

FUDGE CAKE. 

2 squares chocolate melted, y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
y> cup milk, 1% cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 
Yi cup English walnuts cut fine , 1 tsp. vanilla. 

FROSTING. 

1 sq. chocolate melted, 2 tbsp. butter melted, 2 tbsp. 
milk, l J /2 cups confectioner's sugar. Grace B. Mather. 

NUT LOAF. 

1 cup ground nuts, mostly English walnuts, 2 cups 
bread crumbs, 2 beaten eggs, salt, 2 cups sweet milk or 
a little more if crumbs are dry, pour into a buttered bak- 
ing dish, place small pieces of butter over the top, bake 
in slow oven 35 minutes. Serve hot. Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

93 



NUT CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, white of 5 eggs, 2 tsp. of 
baking powder, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 1 cup chopped 
nuts. Mrs. C. J. Hedwall. 

DELICIOUS ORANGE CAKE. 

Rub thoroughly to a cream 2 cups of sugar and 2-3 
of a cup of butter, adding 3 eggs beaten separately; 
squeeze the juice of 2 large oranges into a cup, adding 
enough water to fill it. Stir this into the mixture togeth- 
er with 3;4 cups flour', 2 even tsp. cream tarter and 1 
of soda, and a little of orange rind grated. Bake in layer 
tins. 

FILLING. 

1 egg , grate a little of the orange rind into this and the 
juice of half an orange, adding sugar enough to thicken. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Cream ]/ 2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, add x /i cup mashed 
potatoes , 3 large tbsp. chocolate , 2 eggs beaten separate- 
ly, Yi cup milk, y 2 tsp. vanilla, y 2 cup chopped raisins, 
V 2 cup walnuts , % tsp. cinnamon , y 2 tsp. nutmeg and 
cloves, \ J / 2 cups flour sifted 3 times with \y 2 tsp. baking 
powder. Mrs. Kessing. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

\y 2 cups powdered sugar, y 2 cup butter, 3 eggs beaten 
separately, x / 2 cup milk, 1 1-3 cups of bread flour, 1 
scant tsp. cream of tartar, y 2 scant tsp. soda dissolved 
in milk, 1 tsp. vanilla, grated rind of 1 lemon, little 
salt. Make 2 small loaves. Mrs. Joseph Tuttle. 

94 



PORK CAKE. 

1 lb. pork chopped fine, \ J / 2 cups boiling water, pour 
on pork and let stand few minutes , 1 cup molasses , 1 
cup butter, 2 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 4 lbs. 
raisins, l / 2 lb. dates, y 2 lb. citron, J / 2 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. 
soda, juice and rind of 1 lemon, 2 tsp. cinnamon, T / 2 tsp. 
nutmeg. Mrs. M. A. Scheldrup. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Sift into a bowl 1 cup of granulated sugar, 1 even 
cup of sifted flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 3 eggs, 3 tbsp. 
cold water, pinch of salt, tsp. extract of almonds, mix 
all together thoroughly. Bake in a moderate oven 20 
or 30 minutes. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

GINGER SPONGE CAKE. 

1 cup molasses , 1 cup butter , 2 cups of sugar , 1 cup 
of sour milk, 4 eggs, 3 cups of flour, 1 tsp. of soda, 1 
tbsp. of ginger. This makes two loaves. Cream butter 
and sugar, add well beaten yolks of eggs, then molasses 
and V 2 of the milk and flour. Now put in ginger and 
soda dissolved in the rest of the milk. Last of all the 
four well beaten whites of eersrs. Mrs. Fred Darling - . 



-&;=>' 



SOUR CREAM CLOVE CAKE. 

1 tgg beaten light, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 1 
tsp. soda dissolved in cream, l J / 2 cups flour, ]/ 2 tsp. 
ground cloves , pinch of salt. Mix and bake in muffin 
pans in moderate oven. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 2 eggs, \ l / 2 cups flour, 
V 2 tsp. soda in cream, 1 tsp. baking powder in flour, 
flavoring and salt. Mrs. Strange. 

95 



SNOW CAKE. 

y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar beaten to a cream, y 2 cup 
milk, \y 2 cups of flour, whites of 4 eggs beaten very- 
stiff and thoroughly stirred in the very last thing, 1 heap- 
ing tsp. of baking powder, flavor with vanilla or almond. 

Mrs. Fred Darling. 

SPICE CAKE. 

V/ 2 cups sugar, iy 2 cups sour milk, 2-3 cup butter, 1 
cup currants, l} 2 cups seeded raisins, 1 tsp. ground 
cinnamon, y> tsp. ground allspice, y 2 tsp. ground nut- 
meg, 1 heaping tsp. soda, 3 eggs, 2 2-3 cups of flour. 
When done, mix y 2 cup sugar and }4 cup butter, spread 
over top, cover and let steam. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5 eggs, \ x /\ cups granu- 
lated sugar, 1 cup flour, 1-3 tsp. cream tartar, pinch salt 
added to whites of eggs before whipping flavor to taste. 
Sift, measure and set aside, sugar and flour. Separate 
the eggs, putting the whites in the mixing bowl and the 
yolks in a small bowl. Beat yolks to a very stiff froth, 
whip eggs to a foam, add cream tarar and whip until 
very stiff. Add sugar to the whites and beat in, then 
yolks and beat in, then flavor and beat in, then flour 
and fold lightly. Put in moderate oven at once, bake 30 
to 40 minutes. Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

ICING. 

\y 2 cupfuls sugar, 2 eggs (the whites), 3 tbsp. of 
water. Boil sugar and water together until syrup threads 
when dropped from spoon. Add the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth and beat until stiff enough to spread nicely. 
Flavor with vanilla or rose. Alma R. Holland. 

96 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 
cups flour, whites of 5 eggs, 2 tsp. of baking powder, 
1 lb. mixed nuts, weighed in shell. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall 

WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar , y 2 cupful (small) of butter; 1 cupful 
milk, 2y 2 cupfuls of flour (measure before sifting), 4 
eggs (the whites) , 2 tsp. baking powder. Bake in 3 
layers. 

THANKSGIVING CAKE. 

3 eggs, Yz cup butter, \y 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 l / 2 cups flour, V/ 2 tsp. baking powder, J / 2 lb. 
citron cut fine, 1 tsp. lemon extract. Cream the butter 
and sugar. Separate the eggs. Add the beaten yolks, 
then milk. Sift the baking powder with the flour and add 
flour and extract. Add citron and lastly fold in beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in 3 layers. Whites of 2 eggs for 
icing, 2 cups of sugar and tsp. lemon extract. Boil the 
sugar with a little water until it spins a thread. Add 
the beaten whites of the eggs and beat until thick enough 
to spread. Add flavoring. 

WHITE LADY CAKE. 

y 2 cup butter, scant, \ x / 2 cups granulated sugar 
sifted, 1 cup cold water, 3 even cups flour sifted 3 times 
before using, 2 rounded tsp. baking powder, whites 4 
eggs , flavoring. Cream the butter and sugar, add 1-3 
of the water with 1 cup flour, beat thoroughly, add sec- 
ond cup flour, continue beating, into the last cup flour 
is sifted the baking powder and add as the others, then 
the rest of the water, flavor and fold in the stiffly beaten 
eggs. 

97 



WHITE CAKE. 

y 2 cup butter, \y 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, nearly 1 
cup sweet milk, heaping tsp. baking powdei , whites of 
4 eggs well beaten, flavor with almond, or add 1 cup 
English walnuts, cut fine. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

WHITE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, l l / 2 cups flour, 1 rounding tsp. baking 
powder. Put into a cup whites of 2 eggs. Fill cup half 
full of soft butter. Then fill cup with milk. Add flavor- 
ing and beat all ingredients 5 minutes. 

Mrs. Hugh Wakefield. 

WALNUT FARINA CAKE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs beaten with l / 2 cup sugar , ^ cup wal- 
nut meats, % cup Farina, l / 2 tsp. baking powder, sifted 
with Farina, add whites beaten very stiff. Beat batter 
well. Bake in 2 layers , put whipped cream between. 

C. M. Cumbow. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

y 2 cup of butter, scant, \% cups of granulated sugar, 
sifted , 1 cup of cold water , 3 even cups of flour, sifted 
three times before measuring , 2 rounded tsp. of baking 
powder , whites of four eggs. Flavor with y tsp. of almond 
extract and l /> tsp. of vanilla, mixed. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add 1-3 of the water with 1 cup of the flour, beat 
thoroughly, and add second cup of flour , continue beating , 
into the last cup of flour sift the baking powder, and add 
as the others , then the rest of the water , flavor and then 
cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites very carefully. 
This will make 3 layers 12 inches square, or 2 layers 14 
inches square. Layer cakes require a hotter oven than loaf 
cakes. 

98 



FILLING FOR LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

Grind together in the meat grinder, ]/ 2 lb. of figs ; Yz lb. 
pecans or English walnuts and l /\ lb. raisins. Make a boiled 
icing of 2 cups of granulated sugar , y 2 cup of water ; 
whites of 2 eggs. Boil sugar and water together gently 
without stirring until it threads from the spoon , turn this 
mixture slowly in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs , 
beat while turning on the hot liquid , continue beating until 
of the right consistency to spread , leave out one-third and 
into the rest stir the fruit and nuts. Spread the fruit icing 
between the layers and on the top, and over this spread 
the plain white icing. 

APRICOT FILLING. 

Apricot pulp sweetened. Butter layers of cake and 
spread apricots between and on top. Serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

1 cake German sweet chocolate , 1 cup confectioner's 
sugar, 1 egg; 2 tbsp. sweet cream. Vanilla flavoring 
added after cooking. Mix in order given. Beat egg 
without separating. Set bowl in boiling water on range 
until all is dissolved. Apply an inch thick on cake. 

Miss G. I. Chase. 

MARSHMELLOW FROSTING. 

2 cups of sugar , 1 cup of water , pinch of cream tartar , 
2 whites of eggs , 2 tbsp. granulated gelatine dissolved 
in 1 tbsp. of water. After boiling sugar and water stir 
into gelatine and turn in the whites of eggs. 

Mrs. William H. Norton. 

99 



CARAMEL FROSTING. 

1 cup caramel sugar, 1-3 cup butter; y 2 cup milk. 

Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

LEMON CAKE FILLING. 

1 cup hot water, 1 cup of sugar, juice and rind of 1 
lemon grated , 1 tbsp. of corn starch dissolved in a little 
cold water. When almost cooled add 1 beaten egg. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 

BROWNIES. 

1 cup sugar, l / 2 cup butter, 2 eggs, y 2 cup nuts, 2 
squares chocolate melted, 1 cup flour, pinch of salt. 
Cream, butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, then 
nuts and melted chocolate. Flour and salt last. Do not 
mix too stiff. Drop by tsp. on greased tin a little dis- 
tance apart. No soda or baking powder required. This 
will make 4 dozen. Mrs. J. C. Moodey. 

WALNUT TORTE. 
Beat yolks of 6 eggs until thick and creamy , add 1 cup 
granulated sugar , l / 2 cup of cream of wheat , *4 cup 
crushed dry toast, 1 cup finely chopped walnuts, add 6 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 3 small layers; 
20 minutes, spread raspberry jam between 2 layers, 
cover top and sides with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. Mrs. Pierce. 



100 



Cookies and Doughnuts 

"He's lost every hoof and hide, 
I'll bet a cookie." 

— Bret Harte. 

An enormous dish of balls of szveetened dough, fried in 
hog's fat, and called doughnuts or olykaoeks. — Irving. 

GERMAN ALMOND COOKIES. 

Whip whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add 1 lb. granulat- 
ed sugar, 1 lb. of finely chopped almonds, 1 tsp. cin- 
namon, grated rind of 1 lemon; drop small tsp. on a but- 
tered tin and bake slowly y 2 hour. Mrs. Pierce. 

MARGUERITE RECEIPT. 

l l A tbsp. granulated sugar, lJ/2 tbsp. powdered sugar, 
y 2 tsp. lemon juice, white of 1 egg unbeaten, £4 cup of 
chopped walnuts. Mix well together and spread on 
crackers ; brown in a hot oven. Mrs. Lugsden. 

HERMITS. 

\y 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 2 tbsp. milk, cinnamon, cloves, nut- 
meg, 1 tsp. saleratus. Mrs. John F. Willis. 

CHOCOLATE BARS. 

1-3 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 level cup pastry 
flour or scant cup ordinary flour, 2 squares choc- 
olate, 1 cup walnut meats chopped. Cream butter and 
sugar, add eggs beaten together add flour. Melt choco- 
late and add, mixing thoroughly. Add walnut meats. 
Spread about one-half inch thick in buttered tin and 
bake 3/£ hour in very slow oven. This should be a little 
sticky when first baked. Cut into bars. 

Miss G. I. Chase. 
101 



WALNUT BROWNIES. 

}/ 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup molasses, l /> cup shortening, y 2 
milk, 1 egg, y 2 tsp. soda, \y 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon 
y 2 tsp. alspice, y 2 tsp. (small) ginger. Bake in gem pans 
and decorate on top with walnut meats and dates.. 

Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

CHOCOLATE HERMITS. 

1 egg, y cup sugar, y 2 cup melted butter, y 2 cup 
milk, 2 tsp. baking powder, 3 tbsp. melted chocolate, y 2 
cup raisins, y> cup nuts, \y 2 cups flour, pinch of salt. 
Drop from spoon on to buttered pans. 

Miss Grace Caplin. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

1 pt. sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, juice and grated rind 

of 1 lemon ,~1 tsp. soda dissolved in lemon juice, 1 qt. 

flour. Do not mix too stiff. Roll, cut and bake. 

(' Mrs. E. W. Ensign, 

'v. 

OATMEAL DROPS. 

Cream 1 cup butter and 1 cup sugar , add 2 well beaten 
eggs , 4 tbsp. milk , ^4 tsp. s °da , 1 tsp. cinnamon , 1 cup 
chopped raisins , 2 cups oatmeal , 2 cups flour. Bake on 
buttered paper, make batter quite stiff. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 

Cream together two rounded tbsp. of butter and % 
cup granulated sugar , add 1 well beaten egg , 2 tbsp. 
milk and 1 tsp. of lemon juice , mix 1 tsp. of baking pow- 
der with y> cup of flour and stir in , add 1 cup of finely- 
chopped peanuts and more flour if necessary to make a 
stiff batter. Drop by tsp. in buttered tins, an inch or 
so apart and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Rodearmel. 

102 



PITTSBURG COOKIES. 

2 cups of sugar, I cup butter, 1 cup of rich sour cream , 

2 eggs, 5 cups of flour, 1 tsp. soda, pinch of salt and a 
little nutmeg. Roll cookies very thin, sprinkle a little 
sugar on top and bake. Mrs. Walter Cobban. 

FLORIDA COOKIES. 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, Y\ grated 
nutmeg, 3 cups flour, 2 cups seeded raisins; 1 tsp. soda 
(dissolved in 1-3 cup hot water). Drop from a spoon 
and bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. J. C. Buchanan. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup melted butter, 2 
eggs , scant ^ cup boiling water , 1 tbsp. soda , 1 tsp. 
ginger. Let this batter cool then add flour to mix very- 
soft. Roll out or drop from spoon on greased pans. 

Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sour cream with 1 tsp. soda , 1 tsp. ginger , 1 tsp. cinna- 
mon, 1 tsp. cloves. Flour to make medium thickness. 
I always roll out dough and make a test first. If very 
rich cream is used % CU P shortening is plenty. Pinch 
salt. Mrs. Arthur Mather. 

VERY RICH DELICIOUS COOKIES. 

y 2 lb. butter, %. lb. sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ lb. flour, 

3 tbsp. cream. Mix all together on a board and roll out 
very thin, cut in shapes and sprinkle nuts or cocoanut 
on top. Any flavoring. These bake very quickly., 

Mrs. G. Norstrom. 
103 



GRAHAM COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, )A cup sour milk, tsp. 
soda, spices to taste. Stir stiff with graham flour, use 
white to roll out . mix quite soft. Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

ICING. 

1 cup white sugar, y 2 cup milk, 2 squares of chocolate. 
Boil until thick, then add yolk of 1 egg. Boil 1 minute 
more, take from fire and stir until the right consistency 
to frost. Mrs. Longsdorf. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites of 2 eggs, \V 2 cups almond powder. Mix the 
almond powder gradually with the unbeaten whites of eggs. 
The mixture should be thick enough to look somewhat 
rough. Add more powder to thicken, if it is not sufficient- 
ly thick. Bake on unbuttered paper. Drop the macaroon 
mixture on the paper, allowing 1 tsp. for each macaroon. 
Bake in a very slow oven for 15 minutes, or until a delicate 
brown. The time should not exceed 20 minutes. When 
done, place paper on a wet board and allow it to stand for 
a few minutes, then remove macaroons from paper. When 
cool, place in a tin box or a glass jar. They should be 
kept several days before using. 

JUMBLES. 

Yz lb. butter , ]/ 2 lb. sugar , 2 eggs , T g nutmeg , ) £ lb. 
flour. Sift the spice with the flour. Cream the butter , add 
the sugar gradually and cream again. Add the eggs un- 
beaten and stir until light. Add the flour slowly and mix 
well. Place 1 tsp. of dough on a smooth baking sheet and 
bake in a hot oven until the edges are a delicate brown. Do 
not put the cakes too close together. Remove from the 
sheets as soon as they are taken from the oven. 

104 



CREAM PUFFS. 

1 cup hot water, 1 cup butter. Boil these together, 
then stir in while boiling 1 cup flour. Let mixture cool 
and then add 3 eggs not beaten. Mix well and drop on 
buttered tins. 

CREAM FOR PUFFS. 

2 cups milk, x /2 cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 tbsp. flour. Stir 
all together and stir into milk while boiling. Flavor 
with vanilla. Add pinch salt. When cakes are cool 
open on side and fill. Mrs. Arthur Mather. 

COOKIES. 

1 lb. flour, ]/ 2 lb. butter, ]/\ lb. sugai , yolks of 3 eggs, 
3 tbsp. cream, flavoring. Mix all together at once. Roll 
out very thin. Bake a small sheet of dough and crush 
up with sugar to sprinkle on top of cookies before bak- 
ing them. Mrs. Oscar Lund. 

DATE AND WALNUT BARS. 

2 eggs beaten separately, $4 cup sugar, 3 heaping 
tbsp. flour, 1 level tsp. baking powdei , i-8 tsp. salt, 1 
cup dates cut in small pieces , 1 cup broken walnuts. Put 
dates and walnuts through the meat grinder. Mix them 
with the sugar. Add the beaten yolks and beat. Then 
add the whites. Sift the baking powder and flour thor- 
oughly . add to mixture and beat thoroughly. Bake in 
a thin sheet and cut in bars when cold. 

Mrs. George F. Burwell. 

MOLASSES SNAPS. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. soda, 
1 tbsp. vinegar, vinegar on soda. Mix stiff with flour; 
roll thin and bake in hot oven. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

105 



CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

1 cup of light brown sugar, )/ 2 cup melted butter, ]/ 2 
cup sweet milk, \y 2 cups flour, 1 whole egg and the 
yolk of another, 4 tbsp. melted chocolate, 2 tsp. baking 
powder. Beat sugar and butter together. Add the egg 
and chocolate. Beat again, then add milk and flour. Add 
raisins and nuts if you so desire. Drop from tsp. far 
apart on greased pan. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

1 cup light brown sugar, y 2 cup melted butter, 2 
squares of chocolate (melted) , y 2 cup sweet milk , 1 
cup chopped nuts, 1 egg; y 2 tsp. soda, \ l / 2 cups flour, 1 
tsp. vanilla. Drop with tsp. on buttered tins. Frost with 
chocolate icing. 

PECAN COOKIES. 

1 cup pecan nuts quite fine , 2 rounded tbsp. butter to 
a cream, J4 cll P sugar, beat 1 egg light and add mixture 
with 2 tbsp. milk and 1 tbsp. lemon juice, y> cup flour, 
with 1 level tsp. baking powder; add chopped nuts and 
enough more flour to make a stiff drop batter. Drop 
by tsp. on buttered tin. Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Remove the skins from 4 bananas, and cut them in half. 
Mix the yolk of 1 egg with 1 gill of water and 1 heap- 
ing tbsp. of flour, 1 tsp. of sugar, and ]/ 2 tsp. of melted 
butter. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the mix- 
ture to the beaten white while stirring. Dip the bananas 
separately into the batter, drop them into hot fat, and 
fry to a golden brown. Serve with a sauce made by mix- 
ing 1 tsp. of cornstarch with cold water, and ^4 cup of 
boiling water, 1 tsp. butter, 1 tbsp. sugar, a little nut- 
meg and vanilla flavoring. Mrs. Quinby. 

106 



WHITE COOKIES. 

2 cups granulated sugar, 2-3 cup butter or lard (1 use 
half lard), 1 cup sour cream, 1-3 tsp. soda (small) into 
cream, pinch salt, \ l / 2 tsp. baking powder in flour; flour 
enough to mix soft; flavor (I use nutmeg); sprinkle 
sugar over top before baking. Mrs. J. R. Hughes. 

LOVE IN A TANGLE. 

2 eggs beaten separately very light; 2 tbsp. powdered 
sugar, little salt; 2 tbsp. thick sweet cream, flour to 
roll very thin. Cut in long narrow strips and fry like 
doughnuts. Dust with powdered sugar. 

Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

SANDTARTS. (Sandplattchen.) 

3 4 lb. sugar, l / 2 lb. flour, % lb. butter, 3 eggs , \ l / 2 tsp. 
baking powder, grated rind of 1 lemon; l / 2 tsp. vanilla 
extract. Roll out and cut into small cakes. 

Mrs. William De la Barre. 

ROLLED OATS MACAROONS. 

1*4 cups rolled oats, 1 egg y 2 tbsp. cream, 2 of milk, 
2 of water, let stand until the oats have soaked up the 
moisture, then add 1 cup of powdered sugar, 1 tsp. cin- 
namon, 1 tbsp. melted butter, add enough whole wheat 
flour to make stiff and 2 tsp. baking powder. Make into 
balls as large as walnuts and flatten slightly. Bake in 
moderate oven. Mrs. Kessing. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

3 cups flour, 1 cup oatmeal, 1 cup sugar, rubbed together 
with 1 cup lard, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, y 2 cup water, or 
enough to wet the dough. Roll very thin and bake in a 
quick oven. 

107 



OATMEAL DROPS. 

1 egg beaten light, add y 2 tbsp. melted butter, y 2 cup 
sugar, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1*4 cup of uncooked oat- 
meal , flavoring and salt. Drop very far apart on baking 
tins, not over a tsp. in each, bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Strange. 

ROCKS. 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, y 2 cup 
sweet milk, boil it and stir in 1 tsp. level full soda, 1 
cup English walnuts , y 2 lb. seeded raisins , 3 cups of 
flour, y 2 tsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and al- 
spice. Flour the nuts and raisins. Stir together well 
and dip tsp. in buttered pan to bake. 

Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 

ROCKS. 

2 cups sugar , y 2 cup sour milk , y 2 cup butter , 2 eggs , 
1 tsp. each cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, y 2 tsp. soda, 
y 2 tsp. salt, 1 cup walnut meats, 3 cups flour. Cream, 
butter and sugar, then add well beaten eggs, spices and 
soda dissolved in milk. Then walnut meats and flour. 
Will be quite stiff. Drop by tsp. on greased tins and 
bake in moderate oven. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

SPRINGELE. 

7 large eggs, whites beaten to a froth, and the yolks 
beaten light , mill all together with 2 lbs. of pulverized 
sugar, stir for 1 hour, then add enough flour to make 
a soft dough. Roll and cut into small cakes. Let stand 
over night. In the morning sprinkle a few anise seed 
in the pans that you bake the cakes in. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. William De la Barre. 
108 



OATMEAL COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup lard, 1 cup oatmeal , 
2 cups flour , 2 eggs , 4 tbsp. milk, sweet , 1 tsp. soda , 1 
tsp. cinnamon , 1 cup raisins , mix and drop with tsp. 
on buttered pans to bake. Miss L. B. Marvin. 

TATTERS. (Zerriszene Hosen.) 

1 egg; J / 2 eggshell full of water, pinch of salt, butter 
about the size of a filbert. Beat the egg and add the 
water and salt. Put butter in flour, using as much flour 
as the egg and water will absorb. Knead on board very- 
stiff. Roll out very thin. Let dry for half on hour. Cut 
into irregular pieces and cut a number of slits in each. 
Fry in deep, hot fat. Do not let them brown. Drain 
on paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar and cinna- 
mon while hot. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

BANBERRY TARTS. 

1 cup raisins chopped fine, 1 cup sugar, juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 egg; citron size of egg. Cut 
crust size of small saucer, shape, wet edge and fold over. 

Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

COCOANUT WAFERS. 

1 e gg> X A CU P white sugar, 1 tbsp. melted butter; ^ 
cup rolled oats, y cup cocoanut, little salt and vanilla. 
Drop from tsp. on buttered tins 1 inch apart , bake 
quickly. Gladys A. Campbell. 

GINGER NUTS. 

1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. ginger, V 2 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. soda, 
2 tbsp. butter, y 2 cup boiling water, flour to roll soft. 
Cut into doughnuts and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 
109 



HICKORY WAFERS. 

Beat 2 eggs until light, then add y 2 lb. brown sugar 
that has been rolled fine, y 2 lb. chopped walnut meats, 
5 tbsp. flour; pinch of salt, y 2 tbsp. baking powder. Drop 
small spoonfuls far apart on buttered pans. Bake until 
light brown. Mrs. John Jinks. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

\y 2 cups light brown sugar (without shortening), 1 
egg, 1 cup sour milk, a little salt, y grated nutmeg, 
tsp. soda dissolved in a little hot water, flour to make 
soft dough. Cut into cakes and fry in hot lard. 

" Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

1 heaping qt. stiff bread dough, 1 coffee cup sugar, 
V2 cup shortening , 3 eggs , cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 small tbsp. lard, 
melted, 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve y 2 tsp. (small) 
soda ; salt , 1 tsp. baking powder in flour , nutmeg, flavor, 
mix soft. Mrs. J. R. Hughes. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 eggs, \y 2 cups sugar, 4 tbsp. of melted lard, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2 heaping tsp. of baking powder, a little 
nutmeg, a pinch of salt. Flour to make a very soft 
dousrh. Mrs. Gould. 

DOUGHNUTS WITHOUT EGGS. 

1 cup sour milk , 1 cup sugar , 1 tsp. soda , 2 melted 
tsp. butter, little salt and spice. Mrs. John F. Willis. 

110 



DOUGHNUTS (with potatoes.) 

2 small potatoes boiled and mashed with a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, x /z cup 
sweet milk, add flour to make a soft dough. 3 tsp. of 
baking powder. Mrs. Fred Darling. 

KRAPFEN or BERLINER PFANKUCHEN. 

Melt Yz lb. butter and let it cool, stir in the yolks of 
10 eggs and 5 tbsp. of pulverized sugar. Stir this for 
yi of an hour in one direction. Add one yeast cake 
(compressed), which has been dissolved in T / 2 pt. of 
warm milk and enough warmed flour to make a soft 
dough. Work the dough until it blisters and then cut 
into small cakes with a cake cutter. Cover with a cloth 
and let get light. Fry in deep, hot lard. If you want 
to fill them do not cut the cakes as thick as it takes 2 
layers for this. Put some jam on Yz and cover the sec- 
ond piece. Mrs. William De la Barre. 

KRAPFEN. 

1 cup milk, 1 yeast cake dissolved in milk, enough flour 
to make a sponge. Set to rise and when light add Y\ 
lb. pulverized sugar, yolks of 6 eggs, y 2 pt. of warm 
thin cream, 2 tbsp. rum, }4 lb. melted butter, 1 lemon 
rind grated , a little salt, and enough warm flour to make 
soft dough. Knead until it blisters, let rise. When 
light cut into cakes and let rise again. Fry in deep fat. 
These also mav be filled. Mrs. William De la Barre. 



Ill 



Puddings and Sauces 

''The Proof of the Pvdding is the Eating." — Cervantes 
"Hanger is the best sauce." 

APPLE FLUMMERY. 

An exceedingly dainty dessert. Pare and core 2 lbs. 
of tart apples, cook until tender with a lb. of sugar, 
the finely minced rind of a lemon , and water to barely 
cover , drain the juice from the apples, beating these to 
a pulp. Soak an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water 
for half an hour , add it to the apple juice and stir over 
the fire until all is dissolved , now stir in the apple pulp 
and a cupful of cream. Keep stirring over the fire for 5 
minutes. Do not let it boil. Turn into a mould wet with 
cold water and when set serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 

APPLE COTTAGE PUDDING. 

y 2 cup milk, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 cup flour, x / 2 
cup cugar, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. Mix 
into a batter and pour it over sliced apples in buttered 
pan. P>ake in moderate oven and serve with cream or 
lemon sauce. This is good with other fruits. D. H. 

PANNED BAKED APPLES. 

Wash, quarter and core 4 tart apples ; slice thin in a 
casserole or baking dish , sprinkle over them l / 2 cup of 
sugar, add y 2 cup water. Cover the dish and bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. They must be tender 
but not broken. Serve in dish in which they were 
baked. H. G. H. 

112 



PAN DOWDY. 

Pare and quarter enough tart apples to fill a 5 lb. jar. 
Pour over the apples 1 cup of molasses, \y 2 cups water, 
]/z cup sugar, y 2 tsp. ground allspice. Cover all with a 
nice raised biscuit dough at least an inch thick. Bake 
in a moderate oven from four to six hours. Break up 
the crust and press down into the apple and juice. 

Mrs. Quinby. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Stew 3 large tart apples , strain and beat with an egg 
beater. Beat the whites of 2 large eggs stiff, add y 2 
cup sugar gradually to the eggs, beating all the time, 
add the apple and beat till like snow. Pile lightly in a 
glass dish, garnish with jelly. Serve with boiled cus- 
tard or cream. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Prune whip is made in the same way, only not so 
much sugar is necessary and a little vanilla flavoring 
added. Some prefer the prunes chopped. Always soak 
them over night and stew slowly for a couple of hours. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

2y 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, y 2 tsp. salt, y 2 tsp. nutmeg; 
y> tsp. cinnamon , 24 cup beef suet , 1 cup molasses , 1 cup 
sweet milk , y> cup raisins , y 2 cup currants. Sift 2 cups of 
flour, soda, salt, nutmeg and cinnamon together thoroughly. 
Add the beef suet, finely chopped , the molasses , then the 
milk and last of all the fruit which has been mixed with 
the remaining flour. Pour into a buttered mold and steam 
for 2y 2 hours. If it is put into small moulds steam 1% 
hours. 

113 



HARD SAUCE. 

1-3 cup butter , 1 cup powdered sugar , y 2 tsp. vanilla ; or 
54 tsp. nutmeg , cream the butter , add the sugar gradually, 
beating until it is light and creamy. Add flavoring and 
beat again. Serve very cold. 

APPLE WITH OATMEAL. 

Pare and slice several apples. Place a layer in a well 
greased baking dish, then a layer of cooked oatmeal, un- 
til all is used. Put in oven and bake twenty minutes. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Hazel Willis. 

SCOTCH APPLE PUDDING. 

Peel, core and cut in quarters enough tart apples to 
fill a 3 lb. jar . grate nutmeg over top , cut up %. cup of 
butter over top, y 2 cup water, cover jar, place in oven 
and cook until tender, when done pour over top a bat- 
ter that is made of 1 egg, 4 tbsp. melted butter, pinch 
salt; 1 heaping tsp. baking powder, 1 cup flour, and 
enough milk to make a batter the consistency of bat- 
ter cakes, bake in oven 25 minutes longer. Turn crust 
down on a platter and spread over top hard sauce 
flavored with cherry. Cover all with whipped cream. 
On top of that place hot marshmallows and cherries. 
Serve hot. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

1 qt. milk , J / 2 box gelatine , 2-3 cups sugar , 3 eggs ; 
flavoring. Let the gelatine and milk heat in a double 
boiler until the former is dissolved. Stir briskly the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar beaten light together. 
Let steam for 2 or 3 minutes. Just before removing 
from the fire stir in the well beaten whites of the eggs. 
Add flavoring when partly cooled. Turn into a wet 
mold. Serve cold with cream. Mrs. J. C. Buchanan. 

114 



CHERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Soak y 2 oz. of gelatine in y 2 teacup of milk. Beat 
yolks of 5 eggs into 34 lb. of powdered sugar, add y 2 
cup of milk, cook until it begins to thicken. Take from 
the fire and add the gelatine, then strain into a large 
pan. Place where it will set quickly. When it begins 
to set add the whites of the 5 eggs well beaten. y 2 
pt. of whipped cream , y± cup of cherry, or vanilla. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Fred Robertson, Wichita. 

BURNT ALMOND CHARLOTTE. 

1 cup of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped fine, 
y 2 box of gelatine, soaked 2 hours in y 2 cup of cold 
water, when gelatine is sufficiently soaked put 3 tbsp. 
of sugar into a sauce pan over the fire and stir until 
it becomes liquid and looks dark. Then add the almonds 
to it and stir 2 minutes more. Turn it out on a platter, 
set aside to cool. After they become cool enough break 
them in a mortar, put them in a cup and one half of milk 
and cook again for 10 minutes. Beat together the yolks 
of 2 eggs with a cupful of sugar and add to cooking mix- 
ture, also add gelatine. Stir until it is smooth and well 
dissolved. Take from the fire, set into a basin of ice 
water, and beat it until it begins to thicken. Then add 
to that 2 qts. of whipped cream ; turn the whole careful- 
ly into moulds , set on ice to become firm. Sponge cake 
may be placed around mould if desired. Serve with 
whipped cream. Half of this recipe serves 20, be lib- 
eral with almonds. Mrs. Fred Robertson, Wichita. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter; 1 egg, juice of 1 lemon, 
or y 2 cup water with y 2 tsp. cinnamon , y> cup water. 
Beat well and cook until clear. Mrs. Fred H. Boardman. 

115 



APPLE TAPIOCA. 

l /2 cup tapioca soaked over night, in the morning 
pour over 1 pt. boiling water and simmer over the fire 
until transparent. Pare and core 6 tart apples , place in 
baking dish , pour tapioca over them , season with a 
lump of butter, cinnamon and sugar to taste, if apples 
are juicy do not use lemon, if not, add juice of 1 lemon. 
Cook until done. Serve with cream. 

MINT JELLY. 

1 tbsp. granulated gelatine; 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar; 1 
pt. hot water; 4 tbsp. mint cut in bits. Soak gelatine 
in little cold water. Mash mint, mixed with a little of 
the sugar, with a spoon. Pour over this the hot water. 
Add other ingredients. Strain and set in mould. 

Mrs. W. H. Norton 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup suet chopped fine , 1 cup of molasses , 1 cup sour 
milk , 2 eggs , 1 cup raisins , l /\ tsp. each of cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg , 1 tsp. soda , use enough flour to make 
a stiff batter, and steam V/> hours. 

SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar dissolved in J /> cup water. Thicken with 
a little bit of flour. Add a piece of butter size of wal- 
nut , a little grated nutmeg, tbsp. of molasses, and 
enough vinegar to give tart taste. Strain. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

BROWN PUDDING. 

1 cup molasses ; 1 cup sweet milk , 1 cup suet chopped 
fine or l / 2 cup melted butter; 1 cup raisins; 2 l / 2 cups 
flour , y' 2 tsp. soda. Mix well , salt and spice to taste 
and steam 2 hours. 

116 



BREAD PUDDING. 

2 cups of bread crumbs, then 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup 
of molasses, 1 tbsp. of melted butter, 1 tsp. of soda in 
one cup of boiling water, and Yz tsp. of baking powder, 
nutmeg and cinnamon in 1 cup of flour, 1 egg. Steam 
2 hours. The virtue of this pudding lies in the fact that 
the last is as good as the first, as, by re-steaming, it 
tastes as fresh as when first made. 

Mrs. George H. Rentz. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

Slice a loaf of baker's bread. Cut off the crust. Have 
slices medium thick. Butter each well. Take a cake 
tin , fit the bread into it in layers and sprinkle with 
seeded raisins between the layers. When the tin is 
filled make a sweet custard of 5 or 6 eggs to 1 qt. of milk 
and season with grated nutmeg. Pour over the bread, 
filling the tin. Press down and put a weight on to keep 
under custard. Let stand over night. In the morning 
if the custard has been absorbed add enough more to 
cover. Bake in rather slow oven about an hour or until 
it puffs up and is nice light brown. Serve with or with- 
out sauce. Mrs. T. F. Ouinby. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

1 egg; butter size of an egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup 
sugar, I heaping tsp. baking powder, a little salt sifted 
in flour, flour to make a very stiff batter. Add 2 cups 
of fresh blueberries. Fold in carefully so as not to 
crush. Steam until a straw comes out clean. This 
may be baked in a tin or in gem pans. Served hot with 
butter. Any pudding sauce may be used. 

Mrs. Quinby. 
117 



CARROT PUDDING. 

1 cup grated carrots, 1 cup grated potatoes, 1 cup 
suet or y 2 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup bread 
crumbs, 1 cup syrup, V/ 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking pow- 
der, 1 cup floured raisins, 1 cup currants. Steam close- 
ly for three (3) hours. 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup chopped figs, 1 cup suet, 
1 cup sweet milk, 2 l / 2 cups flour, \y 2 cups molasses, 1 
level tsp. soda, y 2 tsp. cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg. 
Steam 3 hours and serve with sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Cream 1 cup sugai , ]/ 2 cup butter , add 3 well beaten 
eggs, 6 tbsn. hot water, put in double boiler and heat; 
1 tsp. vanilla. Mrs. T. M. Partridge. 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 cup chopped figs , 1 cup broken walnuts , 1 cup 
sugar; 1 tbsp. flour; 1 tsp. baking powder. Mix in- 
gredients together. Beat 2 eggs separately. Mix all 
together, flavor with vanilla, bake in a slow oven 20 
minutes. C. M. Cumbow. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

1 qt. of milk , 2 heaping tbsp. cornmeal , 1 cup gran- 
ulated sugar , y 2 cup molasses , 1 large tbsp. butter , 
1 tsp. salt; 3 eggs, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 tsp. gingei , 
1 tsp. cinnamon ; y 2 tsp. cloves. Heat the milk and stir 
in the meal slowly. Cook well, stirring constantly. Add 
the butter and molasses. Beat the eggs lightly. Add 
sugar and spices, and pour the iiot milk and so forth 
over it. Stir well, add the raisins and bake 1 hour in 
slow oven. Serve with cream. Mrs. T. F. Ouinby. 

118 



LEMON PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add J / 2 cup sugar, grated rind 
and juice of lemon. Cook in double boiler until smooth, 
then beat in the whites of 3 eggs. Pour out into sherbet 
cups. Mrs. Martin. 

NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING. 

J/2 lb. prunes , 2 cups cold water. Let this stand 1 
hour, then cook until prunes are tender and remove 
stones. 1 cup sugar, 1^4 cup boiling water, 1 piece of 
stick cinnamon, again bring to the boiling point and let 
simmer 5 minutes. Dissolve 1-3 cup corn starch in cold 
water and add to prunes and cook for 5 minutes. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. Mrs. N. S. Davis. 

NUT PUDDING. 

4 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped 
nuts, 2y 2 crackers, rolled fine, little salt. Bake 20 minutes. 
Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

PUFFS. 

3 eggs well beaten , 1 tbsp. flour , 1 pt. sweet milk. 
Bake in cups in a quick oven. Serve with sauce. 

Bessie Willis. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup brown sugar , 1 cup molasses, black , 1 cup chop- 
ped suet, 1 cup milk, 4 cups flour, 1 egg, 1 tsp. salt, 2 
cups raisins, 1 tsp. cinnamon, }£ tsp. cloves, Y^ tsp. soda. 
Dissolve soda in hot water. Mix well, steam 2^ hours. 
Sauce. Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, 1 cup pulverized 
sugar, butter size of an egg. Cream butter and sugar, 
add egg and flavor. Mrs. Lockerby. 

119 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

! 'eel and slice thin 6 sweet oranges, removing- the 
seeds. Pour over them 1 cup of white sugar. Heat a 
pt. of sweet milk in a double boiler, add well beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs. Stir constantly. Add 1 tbsp. corn- 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk and y> cup sugar. 
Cook well and pour over oranges. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth. Add gradually 3 tbsp. sugar. 
Spread on top of pudding. Put in oven for a few mo- 
ments to brown. Any fruit may be used. 

Mrs. T. F. Ouinby. 

MARSH MALLOW PUDDING. 

y 2 lb. marshmallows . 1 cup thick cream, y 2 tsp. vanil- 
la , Y\ cup chopped candied cherries , y 2 cup chopped al- 
monds; 2 tbsp. powdered sugar, sherry wine. Cut 
marshmallows in small pieces and soak in a little wine 
y 2 hour. Whip cream and add sugar and vanilla and 
the remaining ingredients. If you like use a tsp. granu- 
lated gelatine to mould. Mrs. E. P. Mather. 

QUEEN VICTORIA'S PLUM PUDDING. 
1 lb. raisins , y 2 lb. citron , 1 lb. currants , y 2 lb. 
brown sugar, y 2 lb. walnut meats, 1 tsp. nutmeg; 1 lb. 
chopped suet, \y 2 cups flour, y 2 lb. bread crumbs, 5 
eggs ; ]/ 2 pt. brandy or milk. First, mix dry materials 
together, second, add milk and eggs. Steam 6 to 8 
hours. Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

PLUM PUDDING. 
1 cup bread crumbs , 1 cup sugar, 1 cup suet , 2 cups 
flour . 1 cup sour milk in which dissolve 1 tsp. soda , 
y 2 cup molasses , 1 lb. raisins seeded , 1 lb. currants , 1 
cup walnuts, chopped fine , 1 tbsp. orange peel , y 2 tsp. 
cloves and cinnamon and nutmeg. Steam 3 or 4 hours. 
Serve with hard or hot sauce. 

120 



PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Yz cup pearl tapioca soaked over night in plenty of cold 
water. When ready to prepare pour off water and add 
a small can of shredded or grated pineapple, juice of 
2 lemons and 1 cup of boiling water. Let come to a boil, 
stirring carefully not to break the grain of the tapioca. 
Put in 1 cup sugar and let boil until clear. Add ^ cup 
powdered sugar and 1 tsp. of vanilla extract. Remove 
from stove and put in the whites of 2 eggs well beaten. 
Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Hugh L. Wakefield. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

2 cups of fine bread crumbs, into which rub ^ cup 
butter. Yolks of 4 eggs beaten to cream with 1 cup of 
sugar. Add 1 qt. of milk and stir well. Bake until 
custard is set, in dish 2-3 full. Let cool. Mash 1 box 
of strawberries with sugar and. spread over the pud- 
ding. Beat the whites of eggs with Yi cup sugar, spread 
over all and brown in the oven. 

SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar and ^ butter beaten to a cream , add 
y 2 cup of hot milk, and lastly 1 egg beaten very light. 
Flavor with vanilla. Mrs. O. F. Kohl. 

RICE PUDDING. 

y 2 cup rice, x /z cup sugar, pinch salt, grated nutmeg 
to taste , 1 qt. milk. Bake from 2 to 3 hours. As the 
light brown crust forms, stir into the pudding. 

Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 

LEMO'N SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar , 1 tbsp. flour , 1 cup boiling water ; juice 
of 1 lemon , butter size of an egg. Boil until it thickens. 

Mrs. P. R. Robb. 
121 



RAISIN PUFF. 

Yz cup sugar , 2 tbsp. butter , 1 cup sweet milk , 2 eggs , 
1 cup raisins , 2 cups flour ; 2 tsp. baking powder. Steam 
1 hour. Serve with any preferred pudding sauce. 

Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

RAISIN PUFF. 

Yz cup sugar; 2 eggs, 1-3 cup butter, 3 tsp. baking 
powder, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped raisins. 
Steam y 2 hour in nine buttered cups, or 1 hour in 6 cups. 
Method: Mix butter and raisins, beat egg with sugar 
and milk, sift baking powder in flour; mix all together. 

Mrs. Lockerby. 

TIPSY PARSON. 

Make a custard of 1 pt. milk, yolks of 3 eggs, and sweet- 
en to taste. Pour over cake while hot. Just before it 
goes to table stick it full of blanched almonds ; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding 2 tbsp. powder- 
ed sugar. Put this on top of cake and the last thing 
put over the top 1 cup of whipped cream. Top off with 
candied fruit. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

TIPSY PARSON. 

Have some sponge cake cut in cubes. Make a soft 
custard of 2 eggs and pt. of milk , sweeten to taste. 
Have ready a cup of orange juice and a cup with brandy. 
Into sherbet cups or glasses, as preferred, place a cube of 
cake which has been dipped in orange juice, then 1 dipped 
in brandy, alternately. When you have 1 layer in the glass, 
pour in a little custard, now cake again and the custard 
until full, with custard on top, then finish with whipped 
cream and lastly a few chopped almonds. Mrs. J. J. Gerber. 

122 



RAISIN PUFFS. 

1 egg ; 1 tbsp. sugar , y 2 cup sweet milk ; y 2 cup chop- 
ped raisins, x / 2 cup chopped walnuts; 1 cup flour, V/ 2 
tsp. baking powder, J4 cup melted butter, added last. 
Steam l / 2 hour in buttered cups. 

VEGETABLE PLUM PUDDING. 

1 cup each of grated carrots, raw potatoes and apples , 
1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup raisins', 1 cup sugar, 2 cups 
flour; pinch of salt; 1 tsp. soda; spices to taste (cinna- 
mon and cloves) , steam 3 hours or more. Sift the flour, 
soda and salt together, add the raisins, mix the carrots, 
raw potatoes, apples and suet, add to the flour and 
spices. 

DRESSING. 

1 cup sugar, V/> cups water or milk, small piece of but- 
ter, pinch of salt, 2 tbsp. corn starch. When cooked 
remove from fire and add 1 egg well beaten , flavor with 
vanilla and lemon. Mrs. William Gawne. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup chopped suet, 2 eggs, % cup molasses, then 
fill butter cup full of C. sugar, 1 cup currants, 1 cup 
raisins. Chop peeling of a large half orange very fine. 
1 cup sweet milk, l / 2 tsp. soda in a little water, 1 tsp. 
baking powder in 3 cups of flour, or more if needed; 
1 tsp. cinnamon, J / 2 tsp. nutmeg; 1 cup English walnuts 
and preserved cherries. Mrs. H. G. Swirles. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 
y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, V/ 4 tsp. flour, 2 cups 
water. Mix sugar and flour and then melt with but- 
ter. A pinch of salt added, then the water and boil. Sea- 
son to taste. Boil to thick syrup. 

123 



BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a piecrust of 2 heaping- cups of flour and 1 
scant cup of lard, a little salt, cut the lard into the flour 
with a knife. Add enough cold water to make a soft 
dough (about a cup). Use a knife to mix. Roll out 
medium thick and cut in squares. Peel, quarter and 
core the apples. Put 4 quarters together and fill with 
sugar and a little cinnamon. Wet the edges of the crust 
and fold over. Set in tin to bake. Do not let them 
touch. Serve with a sauce. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Cream 1 cup sugar, l / 2 cup uutter, add lemon juice, 
a little nutmeg and brandy if desired. Put the mixture 
through pastry bag to form roses. Garnish pudding 
with them. Mrs. C. M. Carlaw. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

2 cups of brown sugar melted , 2 heaping tbsp. of corn 
starch dissolved in Y\ cup cold water, 1^4 cups boiling 
water. Cook about ten minutes. Add nuts and pour 
in mould. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. P. Mather. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Small cup bread crumbs , pt. of sweet milk , 5 tbsp. 
grated chocolate, 1 cup sugar, yolk of 3 eggs or 2 whole 
eggs. Boil first four ingredients just about a minute, 
then add eggs and bake 15 minutes. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar; butter size of large egg; 1 cup sweet 
milk; 1 egg, little nutmeg, 1 pt. flour, 3 tsp. baking 
powder. Bake as cake and serve hot with sauce. 

124 



SAUCE. 

1 cup brown sugar, 4 tbsp. cream, 1 tbsp. butter. 
Boil together. Mrs. William C. Willets. 

SAUCE. 

Rub 1 tbsp. flour in a little cold water till smooth. 
Pour into 1 pt. of boiling water, cook until clear, stir- 
ring constantly. Add a cup of sugar, a little salt and 
grated nutmeg. Strain. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CUBAN BANANAS. 

6 large ripe bananas. Peel and cut in halves length- 
wise. Butter baking dish well. Lay in bananas to 
cover bottom of pan without crowding. Sprinkle with 
sugar, cinnamon and bits of jelly. Another layer of 
bananas — sprinkle as before — adding 1 tbsp. of butter. 
Pour over this 1 cup of cream. Bake 20 minutes in a 
hot oven. Serve with sponge cake. 

Mrs. Charles H. Johnson. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

1 qt. milk , 4 eggs ; y 2 cup sugar. Beat eggs and sugar, 
scald milk, pour over beaten eggs. Fill custard cups 
and set in a pan half filled with hot water. Bake in 
moderate oven until firm. Serve with caramel sauce if 
desired. Stir 1 cup of sugar over the fire until melted 
and lightly browned and 1 cup of boiling water. 

Mrs. A. E. Benjamin. 

DESSERT. 

Maraschino cherries and filberts with wine and whip- 
ped cream ; set in tall glasses with cherry on top. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 
125 



ORANGE CREAM. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with a cup of sugar, add 1 
cup milk, and boil till thick, then add 1 tbsp. gelatine 
dissolved in y 2 cup of cold water. When cool add the 
juice of 3 oranges and grated rind of 1 orange. Whip 
a cup of cream and fold in. Miss Grace Caplin. 

SAUCE. 

y 2 cup butter creamed, 1 cup light brown sugar, yolk 
of 1 egg beaten light. Beat all together until very light. 
y 2 cup cream or milk, added a little at a time, beating 
all the time, flavor with brandy or sherry, lastly add 
beaten white of the egg; put on ice until ready to serve. 
Mrs. G. W. Wood, Faribault, Minn. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING. 

Grate of each, 1 cup of apple, 1 cup of carrots, 1 cup of 
potato, grate 1 cup cut raisins, 1 cup suet, chopped fine, 2 
cups of flour, 1 grated lemon peel, 1 tsp. soda in a little 
boiling water, a little salt. Steam Zy 2 hours. 

Mrs. M. B. Lewis. 

MAPLE CUSTARD. 

3 eggs, 54 tsp. salt, 2 cups milk, 1 cup heavy maple 
syrup. Beat yolks of eggs until thick; add salt, milk 
and maple syrup. Beat whites of eggs until stiff; add to 
mixture and bake in custard cups or in a baking dish 
until set. Mrs. P. R. Robb. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

2 tbsp. sugar, 4 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 pt. 
scalded milk. Cook the above mixture to a custard and 
cool. Just before putting into the oven add 5 eggs 
beaten separately. Bake in a dish set into water. Serve 
warm with hard sauce. Mrs. H. D. Bliss. 

126 



WATERMELON DESSERT. 

Cut pineapple into dice and let stand over night in 
sugar. In morning cut the red part of watermelon 
in dice and add to pineapple; equal parts. Let stand 

1 hour. Fill champagne glasses with the fruit; pour 
over it the juice, with the juice of maraschino cherries. 
Set in ice till chilled. Place a cherry on top and serve. 

Elizabeth Hood. 

TRANSPARENT APPLES. 

6 apples, iy 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water. Core and pare 
apples which hold together, simmer sugar and water 
until a thin syrup , add apples , cook slowly until trans- 
parent, turn the apples over and cook the other side 
the same. Put the apples in a dish , pour over the syrup 
and serve cold. A few slices of lemon or nutmeg may 
be added. 

SPONGE BATTER. 

y 2 pt. milk in double boiler, y 2 pt. milk mixed smooth 
with y 2 cup flour and then added to hot milk, cook 4 
minutes. Take oft fire and add 2 or 3 tbsp. butter and 

2 tbsp. sugar. Let cool a little and stir in 3 beaten yolks. 
Beat whites, and fold in last. Put in pan of water and 
bake 20 or 30 minutes in oven. Delicious served with 
strawberry or raspberry sauce. 

Mrs. Charles D. Smith. 

ITALIAN SWEET. 

1 can shredded pineapple, 10 cts. marshmallows 
(quartered) , 34 lb. almonds (cut lengthwise). Lay in 
pineapple all night. y 2 pt. cream (whipped stiff) , fold 
in, top off with cherry. Mrs. Chas. Sandborn. 

127 



TURKISH DELIGHT. 

3 small square cakes of Philadelphia cheese and 2 
butter patties, thoroughly creamed together , y 2 pt. bot- 
tle stuffed olives chopped fine. Season with paprika 
and a dash of red pepper. This is delicious used for 
sandwiches; spread this as butter. 

Mrs. D. H. McMullea 

SIMPLE DESSERT. 

Take as many wine glasses as you have people , half 
fill with powdered macaroons, cover with grape jelly 
and on that put a heaping tbsp. of whipped cream. 

Clara Willis. 

DESSERT. 

Baked bananas. Pull down a section of the skin of 
each banana , loosen the pulp from the skin , remove all 
coarse threads and return the pulp to the skin in the 
original position, lay the bananas as they are in baking 
dish and bake in a hot oven until the skins are black. 
Remove the pulp from the skin without injur}- to shape , 
bend in half circle and put in serving dish, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and finely chopped pistachio nuts. 

Mrs. G. Xorstrom. 

A SIMPLE AND DELICIOUS DESSERT. 

Crush slightly a qt. of fresh ripe strawberries. Pour 
on cup full of sweetened orange juice and a half cup 
of sweetened water, freeze to the consistency of a 
frappe and serve in punch glasses with a spoon of whip- 
ped cream and strawberries on top. 

Mrs. "William Moorhead. 



12S 



Pie Crust and Pies 



"The pie is an English institution, which, when planted 
on American soil, forthwith ran rampant and 
burst forth into an untold variety of genera and 
species." — Harriet Beecher Stowe. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

1 cup sifted flour, 1-3 cup lard, 1 tsp. salt. Rub to- 
gether the flour, lard and salt , add just enough water 
to take up flour, using a knife for mixing, roll out, us- 
ing little flour. Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 

PIE CRUST. 

3 cups flour, ^2 tsp. salt, ^ tsp. baking powder, 1 
cup shortening, yi to % cup of water. Sift the flour, 
salt and baking powder into an earthen mixing bowl. 
With a knife cut the shortening into the flour, until the 
mixture looks like meal, each little particle of fat being 
coated with floui , add gradually cold water, cutting it 
into the mixture with a knife. When the mixture sticks 
together without adhering to the knife or bowl turn 
it on to the board lightly dredged with flour. Use no 
more flour than necessary and roll as little as possible. 

Mrs. P. R. Robb. 

CREAM PIE. 

For crust. 1 tbsp. butter, y± CU P sugar, pinch baking 
powder, 1 tgg , flour to stiffen. For filling, boil cus- 
tard and flavor with vanilla , use whites on top. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 
129 



BANANA PIE. 

Bake crust and let cool. Heat 1 cup milk , mix x / 2 
cup sugar , 2 heaping tsp. flour and a pinch of salt, and 
stir into the milk , then add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs , 
cook until thick . let this get cold. Slice into the crust 
2 large bananas, add the custard and frost with the 
whites of the eggs and 3 tbsp. of sugar. Brown in the 
oven. Mrs. Geo. S. Davis. 

CREAM PIE. 

1 pt. milk. 2 large spoonsful of sugar, 1 tbsp. flour, 
yolks of 2 eggs, and white of 1. Beat eggs, sugar and 
flour together, let milk get boiling hot, pour in the 
beaten parts, and stir until thick, put in a baked crust 
and bake. Beat the left over white of egg, flavor with 
any extract for top. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

CHEESE PIE (KASEKUCHEN). 

Three balls of cottage cheese, choose the fine grain , 
1 level tbsp. flour , 3 beaten eggs , a little grated lemon 
rind, and enough milk to fill a long, shallow tin. Add 
sugar to taste. Sprinkle a little cinnamon on top and 
a few bits of butter. Line the tin with pie crust. 

Mrs. William De la Barre. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 

1 pk. green tomatoes , 5 lbs. brown sugar . 2 lbs. rai- 
sins , 1 tbsp. salt, 1 tbsp. cloves, 2 tbsp. cinnamon, 2 
tbsp. nutmeg, 2 tbsp. allspice, a generous lump butter, 
1 cup vinegar. Chop tomatoes fine and drain. Add as 
much water as drains away. Boil until tender. Add 
other ingredients , boil until thick ; then add vinegar 
and boil a little longer. Will keep same as any mince- 
meat. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

130 



LEMON PIE. 

3 eggs, leaving out the white of 1 for frosting, 1 
large lemon or 2 small ones , 1 cup sugar. Beat the sugar, 
eggs and lemon together. Put \ l / 2 cups of water on the 
stove to boil , stir in 2 tbsp. of corn starch mixed in )/> 
cup water. The crust is baked before the filling is 
added. Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

1 teacup powdered sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 egg, juice 
and rind of 1 lemon, 1 teacup boiling water, 1 tbsp. 
corn starch dissolved in cold water, stir the cornstarch 
into the hot water, add the butter and sugar, well beaten 
together. When cold add the lemon and beaten egg. 
Bake in open tart without top crust — nice with meringue 
on top. Mrs. C. F. Dimick. 

LEMON PIE. 

Dissolve 1 tbsp. of corn starch in a little cold water. 
Let it come to boil in 1 cup of hot water. Beat 3 yolks 
and 1 white of egg, add 1 cup sugar and small piece of 
butter , 1 lemon grated. Add to hot water. Line pie tin 
with good crust. Put all together and bake in moderate 
oven. Beat the two whites of eggs stiff, add 4 tbsp. of 
sugar. Add to pie when baked and put in the oven to 
brown. Mrs. E. T. White. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

1 cup cranberries cut in two, ^ cup raisins cut in 
two , 1 cup sugar mixed with 1 tbsp. flour , y 2 teaspoon 
vanilla, 1 cup boiling water just before putting into crusts. 

Mrs. William Burnham. 
131 



MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

1 cup cranberries cut open and dropped into cold 
water, this removes seeds, skim out cranberries and 
add y> cup raisins stoned and chopped, 1 cup sugar; 1 
tbsp. of flour, 1 tsp. vanilla, y 2 cup boiling- water, bake 
between 2 crusts. Mary L. Norton. 

MINCE MEAT. 

5 lbs. beef, 5 lbs. raisin, 3 lbs. currants; 1 lb. suet, 1 
lb. citron , 4 qts. tart apples , 2 tbsp. cinnamon , 1 tbsp. 
cloves, 1 tbsp. nutmeg; juice and grated rind of 2 
oranges, 2 lemons, salt, 2 lbs. light brown sugar. 

Mrs. E. P. Mather. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR PIE. 

1 cup sour cream, y 2 cup of sugar, 1 tbsp. flour, y 2 
scant tsp. cinnamon, y 2 scant tsp. cloves, % cup 
chopped raisins , 2 eggs. Mix together the sugar, flour, 
cinnamon and cloves. Add the sour cream and beaten 
yolks of eggs and lastly the chopped raisins. If desired 
1 teaspoon of sherrv may be added. Bake with 1 crust, 
using the white of an egg for a meringue for the top of 
the pie. Mrs. P. R. Roob. 

SQUASH PIE. 

\y 2 cups cooked squash, 1 egg, y> cup sugar, y 2 tsp. 
ginger, y 2 tsp. cinnamon. Mrs. John Nothaker. 

VINEGAR PIE. 

1 coffee cup vinegar from pickled peaches, 1 egg, 
lump of butter size of walnut, tbsp. of flour, more sugar 
if not sweet enough , cinnamon to taste. Cook mixture 
till it thickens. Bake with one crust. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

132 



REAL ENGLISH MINCE MEAT. 

1%. lbs. beef suet, weighed after chopping, 1 lb. 
raisins, stoned, 1 lb. apples, weighed after peeled and 
cored, \]/z lbs. sugar, 1 lb. candied mixed peel, chopped 
very fine, 1 lb. currants, y 2 tsp. ground mace, y 2 tsp. 
cinnamon; 2 tsp. essence of almond; rind and juice of 1 
lemon , 4 wine glasses rum. Have all ingredients well 
chopped and thoroughly mixed. Place in jars. This 
will keep many months. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

NUT PIE. 

1 pt. rich sweet milk, y 2 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup nuts, 
rolled line, bake same as custard pie. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

\ l /> cups stewed or baked pumpkin, 1 cup boiling 
milk, y 2 cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 1 saltsp. cinnamon, 1 
egg beaten lightly, bake about 1 hour. 

Mrs. William H. Norton. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Chop the rhubarb fine and let stand for half an 
hour, then squeeze out the juice, take 1 cup of the pulp, 
1 egg and 1 cup of sugar , mix well and bake as usual , 
add a little butter if liked. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

1 cup chopped rhubarb, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tsp. 
cracker crumbs. Mix. Bake as usual. Elizabeth Hood. 



133 



Ices 



"Then farewell heat and welcome frost." 



CRANBERRY FRAPPE. 

1 qt. cranberries, 1 pt. water, 1 pt. sugar, 2 lemons. 
Boil cranberries 5 or 6 minutes ; strain through coarse 
cheese cloth , add sugar and boil until dissolved. When 
cold add the lemon juice and freeze to a mush. 

Mrs. William Burnham. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 

1 cup strawberry juice, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, 
juice of one lemon, white of one egg, add the unbeaten 
white of the egg last and freeze. Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. cream, whip half and scald half, 1 cup sugar to 
hot cream , then when cool freeze, adding vanilla when 
partly frozen, then add a wine glassful of sherry. 

Mrs. Rodearmel. 

FIG SUNDAE. 

Cut figs into small pieces , mix with vanilla ice cream , 
pour melted honey over top. 

WALNUT SUNDAE. 

y 2 lb. of English walnuts , y 2 lb. of pecans , chop together 
with 1 cup of powdered sugar ; add enough maple syrup to 
suit taste. Pour over plain ice cream and serve in glasses. 

134 



MAPLE ICE CREAM. 

V/ 2 cups of maple syrup; 4 eggs beaten separately. 
Put yolks when beaten light into maple syrup. Set on 
slow fire, stir constantly until thick, when cold add cup 
of milk and cup of cream , put into freezer. When half 
frozen put in the whites of eggs. Mrs. Moreau. 

MOUSSE. 
1 pt. of whipping cream will make one qt. of mousse. 
1 qt. of mousse will serve eight persons. 1 pt. of cream , 
1 cup powdered sugar , flavor to taste. Whip the cream , 
add sugar little at a time, then flavor. Place into a 
mould and pack in ice and salt for 5 hours before using. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

4 eggs , 1 cup sugar , 1 qt. milk , 1 tbsp. corn starch ; 1 
cup strawberry preserves, *4 lb. raisins, x 4 lb. English 
walnuts chopped fine. Beat yolks and sugar, dissolve 
corn starch in a little cold milk. Heat the other ingredi- 
ents, then add eggs, sugar and corn starch. Cook until 
it thickens, add preserves and let cool, when half frozen 
add the whites of eggs. Mrs. William Burnham. 



-&>&>' 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

1 qt. of water , 1 pt. of sugar. Boil 10 minutes. When 
cool add the juice of 4 lemons and 1 pt. of grated pine- 
apple. Put into freezer and when partly frozen stir in 
the well beaten white of 1 egg and 1 pt. of cream. 

Alma R. Holland. 

BOMB GLACE 

Line a mold with raspberry ice, fill with vanilla ice cream , 
cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 2 hours. 

135 



LEMON ICE. 

1 qt. milk, scald and cool, 1 cup sugar, juice of 2 lem- 
ons, 3 oranges, freeze. This is a complete success. Ded- 
icated to my "Chum." Mrs. M. B. Lewis. 

LEMON SHERBET. 



1 qt. good milk , 3 lemons . 2 cups sugar. When nearly 

eggs. 
Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 



frozen add the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 



LEMON SHERBET. 

2 qts. of hot water. 1 qt. of sugar. Boil 10 minutes, 
let cool and add the juice of 8 lemons. Strain and add 
the well beaten white of egg before putting into freezer. 

Alma R. Holland. 

MAPLE FRANGO. 

1 cup maple syrup. 4 egg yolks . cook in double boiler 
until thick . when cool, add 1 pt. whipped cream , 4 egg 
whites well beaten. Pack in ice. stir once an hour, until 
frozen. Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 

Whip half pt. cream . add half lb. of marshmallows cut 
in small dice. 1 cup walnuts cut fine. 10 cents worth 
candied cherries chopped. Sweeten to taste. When 
mixed put in dish in which it is to be served, and keep 
on ice until used. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

RASPBERRY ICE. 

1 qt. raspberries, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, lemon juice. 
Sprinkle the raspberries with sugar, cover, and let stand 
2 hours. Mash , squeeze through cheese-cloth , add water 
and lemon juice to taste, then freeze. 

136 



LEMON ICE. 

Juice of 4 lemons, juice of 2 oranges, 1 lb. sugar, 

1 qt. boiling water. Let cool and just before freezing 
add the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Lela B. Corriston. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

1 can shredded pineapple, 1 pt. water, 1 large cup 
sugar, juice of 2 lemons. When partly frozen add white 
of 1 egg well beaten. Mrs. H. D. Bliss. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 

1 pt. cream whipped, 1 cup sugar, y^ cup chopped 
walnuts , 1 white of an egg whipped. Flavor with va- 
nilla and freeze. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

GRAPE ICE. 

1 qt. water, 1 cup grape juice, 1 cup sugar, juice of 

2 lemons. Freeze. Harriet C. Dodge. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Let 1 cup of maple syrup come to a boil. Pour over 
it the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs. When cool add 1 
pint of cream. Freeze in freezer. 

ANGEL PARFAIT. 

Place on the fire y> cup each of water and sugar. 
Boil until it spins a thread. Take from the fire and after 
a moment add slowly the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. 
Beat well and flavor. When cold stir in 1 pt. of whipped 
cream. Pour into a mold and pack in ice and salt for 
4 hours. Chocolate, candied fruit or nuts may be added 
to suit taste. Mrs. Milton O. Nelson. 

137 



GINGER ICE CREAM. 

1 pt. cream, yolks of 3 eggs, 1-3 jar (small) preserved 
ginger. Scald the cream and pour it gradually over the 
beaten yolks. Return to double boiler and cook until of a 
custard consistency. Remove from fire and add the ginger, 
chopped fine, and 1-3 of the syrup. Freeze the mixture, 
using one part salt and three parts ice. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 
1 qt. cream , 1 cup sugar , 2 tbsp. vanilla. 

MAPLE FRANGO. 

24 cup maple syrup, 2 eggs, y? pt. whipping cream. 
Boil the syrup down to y 2 cup. Beat yolks of eggs. 
Cool the syrup slightly and add to the yolks. Beat 
thoroughly until consistency of custard. Whip cream 
until stiff. Beat the whites of eggs and add to cream. 
Add the custard, whipping together quickly. Turn into 
molds and pack in ice and salt about seven hours. In 
very cold weather this can be turned into granite basin 
and set out of doors to freeze. Miss Gertrude I. Chase. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 

With whipped cream. Take 1 qt. water and put enough 
sugar to make quite sweet, put water and sugar on the 
fire and let come to a boil, take from fire and cool. When 
cold add juice of 3 lemons and 2 cups of strawberry 
juice , put into freezer and freeze. When you serve 
it, put some crushed berries on top, then some whipped 
cream. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



138 



Preserves 



"Delectable dishes of preserved plums and peaches, 
and pears arid quinces." 

— Irving. 

PUMPKIN CONSERVE. 

1 medium sized pie pumpkin, pared and cut into inch 
squares, measure and add same amount of sugar; let 
stand over night ; in morning add juice of 4 oranges 
and 4 lemons and rind of 2 oranges and 2 lemons, cut 
fine. Cook until thick. Mrs. E. T. White. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

6 lbs. grapes , separate pulp and skins , boil skins 
till tender , boil pulp and put through sieve to remove 
seeds, add skins, 3 lbs. sugar, 2 tbsp. each of cinnamon 
and alspice , l /> tsp. cloves. Cook all together till it 
jellies. Put in glasses and seal. Mrs. T. F. Ouinby. 

PLUM CONSERVE. 

1 basket plums, 8 cups sugar, 1 lb. seeded raisins, 
juice of 4 oranges -with rind of 2 chopped fine. Remove 
stones from plums, add other ingredients. Watch care- 
fully while boiling as it burns easily. Boil until thick. 
Place into jelly glasses. Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 

CONSERVE. 

1 basket of blue plums, stone ; 4 oranges cut in dice 
with peel on. 7 cups sugar , J / 2 lb. English walnuts cut 
fine. Boil till thick. Mrs. Wm. Womack. 

139 



PLUM CONSERVE. 

1 square basket of blue plums. Stone and cut in 4 
pieces. Do not skin, 1 pound of seeded raisins (whole,) , 
4 oranges and 1 lemon. Peel and slice fine. 7 level 
cups of white sugar. 2 cups shelled almonds chopped. 
Add just enough water to the plums so they wont stick. 
Cook till juice is extracted, then add other ingredients. 
Cook slowly until it jams. Add nuts the last thing, 
about ten minutes before taking off. 

Mrs. Eugene DeHaven. 

CURRANT CONSERVE. 

2 qts. currants, 3 pts. sugar, 2 large oranges, 2 cups 
of raisins. Stew fruit 15 minutes. Then add orange 
pulp. Boil y 2 hour. Mrs. W. H. Norton. 

TUTTI FRUTTI. NOT COOKED. 

Put into a jar 1 pt. of alcohol and to every cup of 
fruit add one cup of sugar, stir every other day. Start 
with pineapple and as fruits come in season, add to the 
jar every kind of fruit except pears, gooseberries and 
blueberries; if you put in currants use juice only. 1 
pt. of alcohol will make a 2 gallon jar of fruit. At Christ- 
mas time it will be ready for use. This improves with 
age, but must be stirred occasionally. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Slice very thin 6 oranges into a preserving kettle ,- add 
7 lbs. sugar and place over a very slow fire until sugar 
is all dissolved, then add 7 lbs. pie plant peeled and cut 
up as for stewing. Boil 35 minutes, then put into 
glasses. Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

140 



PIEPLANT CONSERVE. 

3^2 lbs. pie plant, 3 lbs. sugar, 1 lemon rind and juice, 
1 orange rind and juice. Boil 30 minutes, then add % 
lb. blanched almonds. Put in jelly glasses. 

Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 

GRAPE CONSERVE. 

One basket of Concord grapes; wash and place in 
kettle and boil until soft, rub through colander, to the 
thick juice add 2 cups English walnut meats; 1 lb. of rais- 
ins , 3 oranges cut in small pieces , peel and boil the rind 
in a separate pan of water ; drain , then add fresh water 
and boil again. When soft add to the other ingredients 
with 5 lbs. granulated sugar, boil until thickens, place 
in jelly glasses and seal. Mrs. William Gawne. 

GINGERED PEARS. 

Cut up fine after peeling one peck Kiefer pears. Put 
in jar in layers with 5 lbs. of sugar. Let stand over- 
night. In the morning put over slow fire; add \ l / 2 lbs. 
crystallized ginger, 3 lemons sliced thin, ]/ 2 lb. seeded 
raisins, 1 small cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 
1 tbsp. cinnamon , y 2 dozen small cloves. Cook until 
reduced %. Add y 2 lb. chopped walnuts last. 

Miss C. M. Hanscom. 

SPICED RIPE TOMATOES. 

1 lb. tomatoes, y^ cup sugar, T / 2 cup vinegar, y 2 tsp. 
cinnamon , y tsp. cloves. Pare tomatoes, scoop out 
the seeds and throw away. Boil sugar, vinegar and 
spices 10 minutes, then add tomatoes and boil 5 min- 
utes. Scoop out tomatoes and boil y 2 hour, then add 
tomatoes again and heat, then seal in jars. 

Mrs. Joseph Tuttle, Hartford. 
141 



GINGER PEAR. 

7 lbs. sugar, 7 lbs. pears, using the green pears cut 
in dice, add 1 lb. crystallized ginger or an amount that 
would give equal strength of green ginger root, juice of 
2 lemons. Boil until quite thick. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

1 qt. of peaches, 1 qt. of sugar", 1 orange, 1 lemon. 
Boil peaches, oranges and lemons until all are mixed 
together, then add sugar and boil for two hours. 

Mrs. Moreau. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Very good. 7 lbs. currants', 5 lbs. brown sugar; 1 pt. 
vinegar, 3 tbsp. cinnamon, 3 tbsp. cloves. Pick over 
currants, add other ingredients and cook slowly 1^4 
hours. Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

5 oranges and 1 lemon. Slice 3 of the oranges and the 
lemon as thin as possible. Peel the other 2 oranges and 
cut off all of the tough white skin. Slice thin as pos- 
sible and add to the first. Take 1 pound of sugar to 1 
pound of fruit and add 2 qts. of water. Let stand 24 
hours, then boil 2 hours. Let stand again 24 hours. 
Boil ]/ 2 hour and can. Seal. Miss Augusta Hedwall. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Take pulp from grapes and save skins. Boil pulp and 
put through colander to remove seeds. Then add skins 
to pulp . to every 7 lbs. of fruit take A l / 2 lbs. sugar , }i 
pt. vinegar, 2 tsp. each of cloves and allspice , 1 tsp. cin- 
namon. Boil as for jam. Mrs. H. Briggs. 

142 



SWEET CHERRY PICKLE. 

4 lbs. sugar, 7 lbs. of fruit, 1 qt. of vinegar, 1 scant 
tbsp. whole cloves; stick of cinnamon. Stem and stone 
fruit. Weigh fruit after pitted. Let sugar and vinegar 
come to a boil, pouring over fruit at once. Next morning 
pour off syrup and let simmer gently for 1 hour. Then 
add fruit and spices. After coming to a boil put in 
jars and seal. Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

JELLY. 

In making always boil the juice 20 minutes before 
adding the sugar; after the sugar has been added boil 
5 minutes , after it begins to boil then put in glasses. 
A small amount of tart apple juice added to fruits 
which do not jellv easily simplifies matters and in many 
cases helps the flavor. Some fruits are too strong or 
tart. 

PRESERVES. 

Red Sweet Water Melon Sauce. Use a good ripe 
melon and cut up in small inch pieces both red and 
white parts. To \ l / 2 cups of melon add 1 cup of sugar . 
let it stand over night. Drain off the liquid in the 
morning and boil it to a syrup . add the melon and boil 
until melon looks clear; the last 15 minutes add sliced 
lemons (3). Seal very carefully in glass jars. Will 
be a nice rosy color in 3 weeks and then is ready for 
use. A delicious sauce. Mrs. G. Norstrom. 

HOW TO OPEN FRUIT JARS. 

Place the jar bottom side up in hot water deep enough 
to cover the cap only ; or hold for a moment under the 
hot water faucet, turning the jar as the water strikes it. 
The cover can easily be removed. 

143 



TO CAN GREEN BEANS, PEAS, ASPARAGUS 
AND CARROTS. 

Beans, peas, asparagus, carrots. Place in a wire bas- 
ket and plunge into boiling water while you count 20, 
add to water a piece of bicarbonate of soda the size of 
a large bean to 1 gal. of water. Then throw them 
quickly into cold water a few moments and drain , fill 
jar to about an inch from the top, add a tsp. salt; then 
stand jars on top of a rack in a boiler, then surround 
with cold water half way , cover the boiler and boil for 
an hour, then screw the lids down tightly. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Quarter a peck of quinces, do not pare nor core, cut out 
all the bad places from the fruit, cook y 2 peck at a time. 
Cover the fruit with water , cook until soft. Put into 
jelly bag over night. Squeeze out all the juice left in 
the bag and measure it', cook the juice about 15 minutes. 
Then add an equal amount of sugar, let it cook until a 
sample of it placed on ice thickens. Pour in tumblers, 
when cold cover with melted paraffine. Mrs. E. T. White. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY is made the same way. Fla- 
vor with several fresh rose geranium leaves which are 
cooked with the jelly, then take out the leaves before 
pouring the jelly into the tumblers. This flavoring- is 
a great addition to the jelly. Mrs. E. T. White. 

LATE AUTUMN JELLY. 

1 quince , 1 qt. cranberries , 3 apples. Stew as for sauce, 
strain, add equal parts of sugar to the juice and boil 
until it jellies. Mrs. J. C. Buchanan. 

144 



TO CAN TOMATOES WHOLE. 

Select small and solid tomatoes , put into wire basket 
and plunge in boiling water quickly to peel. Pack into 
jars loosely, add ]/a tsp. salt to each jar and fill to over- 
flowing with water that has been boiled and cooled. Ad- 
just the rubbers, lay on the tops loosely , put the jars 
into a boiler and surround with cold water, boil rapidly 
5 or 10 minutes, then fasten each jar without lifting the 
lid. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 



14! 



Pickles 



"Variety's the very spice of life." 



ENGLISH CHUTNEY. 

1 lb. tart apples, l / 2 lb. ripe tomatoes, 1 doz. small red 
peppers, 2 small white onions', y 2 lb. seeded raisins, 
good handful of mint. Chop all very fine, then add 6 
tsp. of salt, 2 tsp. of mustard, 1 lb. white sugar. Mix 
together in earthen jar, pour over it 1 qt. of vinegar 
which has been boiled and cooled. Mix well and let 
stand in a cool place. C. F. 

SWEET DILL PICKLE. 

1 qt. dill pickles (quartered lengthwise) and halved, 
4 lbs. of sugar, 1 qt. of cider vinegar, y 2 box or 1 oz. 
of mixed spices. Boil vinegar, sugar and spices to thick 
syrup. Put pickles in jars and pour syrup over them. 
Next day drain off the syrup and reheat and pour over 
pickles, repeat this process for 3 days. Seal. 

CORN PICKLE. 

10 cups corn cut from cob, 10 cups cabbage chopped 
fine, 6 red peppers, large, beat together. l / 2 gal. vine- 
gar, 2 tbsp. salt, 3 cups sugar, 54 lb ground mustard. 
Pour over cabbage and corn and let stand on back of 
stove and cook slowly for a short time. Then put in 
air tight jars. Will keep unsealed for a long time. 

Mrs. John F. Willis. 

146 



FRENCH PICKLE. 

1 peck green tomatoes , 6 onions , 6 green peppers 
chopped fine , 1 cup salt , let stand over night, in morning 
drain off brine, add 2 qts. water and 1 cup vinegar, boil 
20 minutes and drain well through a colander, then take 
a little more than 2 qts. of vinegar, \y 2 lbs. sugar, y 2 
lb. white mustard seed, 1 tbsp. ground cloves, 1 tbsp. cin- 
namon; boil well 20 minutes. Mrs. John F. Willis. 

HODGE PODGE. 

y 2 peck of each. Chop equal portions of sweet white 
cabbage, green tomatoes, green cucumbers and celery, 
3 large green peppers, very fine. Mix all together, salt 
heavily, let stand 3 or 4 hours, or over night. To every 
3 qts. of this add 1 qt. chopped onions. Prepare onions 
thus : chop fine, salt heavily, pour boiling water over 
them, let stand till cool, squeeze out and add to the 
above. Drain and pack all together in a stone jar. Pour 
cold vinegar over to cover. Let stand 24 hours, squeeze 
out with hand until dry and take enough fresh vinegar 
to cover pickles. 2 oz. celery seed , 2 oz. mustard seed , 
1 oz. whole cloves, 1 oz. whole alspice. When vinegar 
boils add pickle and boil not over 15 minutes, slowly. 
Pack in jars and tie up. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CHICAGO HOT— A RELISH. 

1 peck ripe tomatoes chopped fine and drain in sieve 
for 3 hours, 2 cups celery, chopped fine, 2 cups onions, 
chopped fine , 2 cups white sugar , 4 cups vinegar , y 2 cup 
salt; y 2 cup white mustard seed, 4 large red peppers, 
chopped fine , 4 large green peppers, chopped fine. Mix all, 
but do not cook. Add a little horse radish root to each jar 
as a preservative. Do not seal. Cook and seal the tom- 
ato iuice for soups. Mrs. Ernest E. Wanous. 

147 



CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

1 gal. vinegar , I teacup sugar , 1 teacup salt , 1 teacup 
ground mustard. Mix the sugar, salt and mustard to- 
gether, then put in the vinegar, this will cover 200 cu- 
cumbers . put in large jar and cover with plate. 

Mrs. Moreau. 



OIL PICKLES. 

Two dozen medium sized cucumbers, slice very thin, 
put into bottles as soon as you slice them , sprinkle gen- 
erously with mustard, celery, and whole pepper seeds 
and a little salt. Pour over the slices or fill the bottle 
with vinegar and olive oil ^4 cup of oil to a qt. of vinegar, 
always shake the bottle before dishing them for the 
table. Mrs. Albert Schaller. 



SALAD PICKLES. 

1 qt. chopped cucumbers, seeded but not peeled , I qt. 
onions, 2 qts. cabbage, 4 chopped green peppers, 54 lb. 
ground mustard; 1 cup flour, 3 cups white sugar, 1 
tsp. of tumeric (level). 3 tbsp. white mustard seed, 1 
tbsp. celery seed. Let chopped materials stand over 
night covered with water and 1 cup of salt. In the 
morning scald up and then drain thoroughly. Take 1 
pt. of vinegar and make a paste of flour, tumeric and 
ground mustard. Scald 5 cups of vinegar and 1 cup of 
water. Add sugar, celery and mustard seed. Stir in the 
paste until it thickens. Remove from the fire and add 
the chopped materials. ^4 °f an ordinary cabbage; XYi 
qts. of onions before chopping and 5 medium sized cu- 
cumbers will make the right amount of the materials 
neecs^ary. Mrs. Emmet T. White. 

148 



RUMMAGE. 

2 qts. green tomatoes , 1 qt. ripe tomatoes , 1 small cab- 
bage , I ripe cucumber, 2 bunches celery, 3 large onions, 
3 green peppers, 3 red peppers, 3 pts. vinegar, 2 lbs. 
wet brown sugar, 1 tsp. dry mustard. Chop together 
and let stand over with y 2 cup salt, then cook until clear. 

Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

PICKLES. 

Wash cucumbers, midget size, fill mason jar and add 
1 tbsp. salt, 1 tbsp. sugar, 1 tbsp. white mustard seed, 
a tiny red pepper, horseradish root if you have it, cover 
with white wine vinegar and seal. 

Mrs. William Moorhead. 

COLD TOMATO CATCHUP. 

\yi pts. vinegar, V 2 cup salt, 2 roots horse-radish, l / 2 
cup of dark and light mustard seed, 2 tsp. black pepper, 
1 oz. celery seed , 1 onion, cut fine, 1 tsp. cloves (ground) , 
1 tsp. mace (ground) , 2 tsp. cinnamon (ground) , 1 tea- 
cup sugar. 2 green peppers (chopped). T / 2 peck (ripe) 
tomatoes (peeled and seeds and juice taken out), chop- 
ped. Mix. Mrs. T. F. Ouinby. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Vinegar 3 qts. , little white onions 2 qts. , 2 heads 
cauliflower or more, ground mustard y\ lb., tumeric 
powder ]A oz. , green peppers 6, sugar 3 cups; flour 
1 small cup, 2 qts. little pickles, beans if wanted. Boil 
cauliflower and onions a little, cut all up, sprinkle 1 
cup salt over all, then pour over boiling water, drain 
off next morning. Mix mustard and tumeric powder in 
a little vinegar, mix flour with water, then put all to- 
gether, with the vinegar, and boil, stirring well , then 
pour boiling hot over pickles. Mrs. Geo. H. Crosby. 

149 



HORSE RADISH PICKLES. 

Small size cucumbers , soak in salt brine 48 hours. 
Drain, wipe dry with cloth. Pack in stone jar, 1 layer 
of cucumbers , 1 of horse radish root, alternating until 
jar is filled, put in 2 green peppers, if 1 peck of cucum- 
bers is used, heat white wine vinegar to boiling point, 
pour over pickles. Ready for use in a few days. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

1 tbsp. flour, 3 tbsp. of mustard, 1 tbsp. of 
sugar, small , 1 tsp. of salt - , pour boiling water over the 
mixture and stir until perfectly smooth, when cold add 
enough vinegar to thin. If kept in a covered jar this 
will keep indefinitely. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

PEPPER HASH. 

1^2 doz. green peppers, 1 large head of cabbage, ^ 
doz. large onions. Remove the seeds from half the pep- 
pers, then chop skins with other half. Chop other in- 
gredients. Mix */£ cup salt in above and let stand over 
night. Drain well and add 2 cups sugar, j4 CU P white 
mustard seed, 1 tbsp. celery seed. Pour cold vinegar 
over all and then add 1 qt. more than will cover. 

Mrs. H. G. Swirles. 

TOMATO RELISH. 

1 peck of ripe tomatoes chopped fine, pressed over 
night, 2 cups chopped celery, 1 cup of white mustard 
seed , 1 cup grated horse radish , 2 cups sugar , 8 pep- 
pers, 4 red and 4 green ones, 1 small cup of salt, 2 
cups of chopped onions, 2 tbsp. of mixed spices, ground, 
2 cups of vinegar added the last thing. Will keep with- 
out sealing. Mrs. \V. J. Moorhead. 

150 



RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

1 peck of ripe tomatoes, 1 cup of chopped celery, 3 
red peppers, 6 medium sized onions, 2 lbs. brown sugfar, 

1 cup salt, 1 cup English mustard seed, 1 qt. of vinegar; 

2 oz. ground cinnamon. Chop tomatoes and drain in 
colander, pressing out juice with a plate. Chop onions 
and peppers very fine. Mix all thoroughly and fill jars. 

Mrs. William H. Norton. 

DILL PICKLES. 

Select small cucumbers, one peck. Soak over night in 
cold water. Take 1 gal. of white wine vinegar. Boil 
and cool. Have this ready the night before. In the 
morning change the water on the pickles, take a stiff 
vegetable brush and brush every one thoroughly, then 
put into fresh water. Now drain. Have ready qt. jars 
and fill them with the pickles, putting them together 
according to size. Add to each jar a piece of white 
gingerroot, 1 of horse radish root, 1 heaping tbsp. of 
salt , 1 large head of dill and 3 or 4 young grape leaves. 
When bottles are well filled pour about 2-3 full of vin- 
egar and fill up with water. Seal. Set away a few 
weeks before using. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

100 good cucumbers, good eating size, 2 onions, y 2 lb. 
black mustard seed , 34 lb. white mustard seed ; 2 tbsp. 
celery seed, y 2 pt. olive oil, small measure, enough vin- 
egar to cover about 6 qts. , slice cucumbers and onions 
quite thin , sprinkle about ^ pt. salt between each layer 
and let stand over night. Drain and wash. Mix the 
seeds with the oil, add vinegar, then pour over the cu- 
cumbers and onions. Keep in a cool place , this will make 
about 3 gal. Ready to eat in about a week. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 
151 



MUSTARD PICKLES. 

2 qts. cucumbers cut up, 1 qt. small onions, 1 qt. 
chopped green tomatoes, 1 large cauliflower (cut up; j 
4 green peppers, chopped. Soak this 24 hours in brine 
strong enough to float an egg. Scald, drain. Add % 
cup flour , 4 tbsp. mustard , 1 tbsp. tumeric and enough 
cold vinegar to make a smooth paste , 1 cup sugar , 1 tbsp. 
celery seed , enough vinegar to make 2 qts. 

Mrs. R. L. Stillman. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES. 

50 small cucumbers, 3 pts. small onions sliced, 1 oz. 
mustard seed , 1 oz. celery seed , x /i oz. white pepper 
ground fine. 10 cts. worth olive oil. Cut onions, cover 
with cold water for three hours. Cut cucumbers very 
thin, add 1 cup salt for three hours, drain and mix well 
together, cover with cider vinegar, let stand over night 
and bottle. Mrs. J. R. Hughes. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Chop fine 12 large ripe tomatoes, 2 green peppers, 
chopped fine, 2 onions, 2 tbsp. each of salt, vinegar and 
sugar, 1 tbsp. cinnamon and a little ground cloves. Boil 
1 hour and bottle. Mrs. Fred H. Boardman. 



152 



Candy 



" Sweets to the sweet." 1 — Shakespeare. 



MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 

l / 2 lb. light brown sugar, yo cup cream, Y lb. choco- 
late; Yz tsp. vanilla. Boil 20 minutes, stirring briskly. 
Just as it is taken from the fire fold lightly in the fudge 
Yz lb. of marshmallow, which has been cut into halves. 
Pour into shallow tins and cool. When cutting marsh- 
mallows wet scissors to prevent sticking. 

.Airs. W. A. Mather. 

GRILLED NUTS. 

1 cup granulated sugar, Y CU P boiling water. Boil 
until it threads from spoon. Remove from fire. Pour 
into syrup 1 cup walnut meats and stir until cold. 

HONIED POPCORN. 

Boil strained honey for a few minutes and pour over 
popped corn and make into balls. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Partridge. 

FRENCH CREAM. 

White of 1 egg, Y ts P- c0 ^ water, 1 tsp. vanilla ex- 
tract ; 1 lb. 4x sugar. Mix white of egg, water and 
vanilla, beat until thoroughly mixed, then add gradual- 
ly the sifted sugar to the liquid until mixture is stiff 
enough to knead. This cream may be used instead of 
cream fondant for such things as cream walnuts, dates, 
figs, etc. John T. Garland. 

153 



TURKISH NOUGAT. 

2 cups white sugar , 1 cup corn syrup , £4 CU P chopped 
nuts , 2 whites of eggs , y 2 tsp. vanilla. Boil three first 
ingredients until hard ball can be formed when ma- 
terial is dropped into cold water. Then pour the syrup 
gradually into the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Beat 
whole mass until creamy. Add nut meats and pour out 
into buttered tins to cool. John T. Garland. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

2 cups white sugar, }i tsp. cream tartar, 1 cup water, 
pinch salt. Cook till material cracks when dropped in 
cold water, add butter size of egg, stir till melted, take 
oft" fire and pour into buttered pan. For larger batch 
use proportionate amounts of materials. 

John T. Garland. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup molasses, y 2 cup chocolate, 2-3 
cup milk, butter size of an egg, as many nuts as you 
desire. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

DELIGHT. 

2 cups sugar, l / 2 cup corn syrup, 1 tsp. vanilla extract, 
y 2 cup water. Boil till threads. Add to 2 beaten whites 
of eggs, beat like boiled icing, add nuts and cool, cut 
in squares. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

FUDGE. 

2 cups sugar, 2-3 cup rich milk, i tbsp. butter, T 4 
cake chocolate. Stir while cooking. Cook until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Beat until it stiffens, 
and pour in buttered tins to cool. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

154 



SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch by pouring boiling water over the almonds and 
allowing them to stand for a few minutes, when the skins 
may be easily removed. Boil for 15 minutes in a strong 
solution of water and salt, then remove and dry. Put 1-3 
cup of olive oil in a small frying pan. When hot add part 
of the almonds and fry until a delicate brown, stirring con- 
stantly to keep the almonds in motion. Remove and drain 
on brown paper. 

BITTER SWEETS. 

2 cups sugar, V/ 2 cups milk or enough to make creamy. 
Cook until it forms a soft ball in water. Then beat until 
creamy. Form into balls and let cool. When cool dip in 
melted chocolate. Gladys Pease. 



155 



Drinks 



"Eat, Drink and be Merry." 

HOT CHOCOLATE. 

4 squares of Baker's chocolate, 4 tsp. sugar, 4 cups 
milk. Put the chocolate in a small kettle and melt. Add 
the sugar and mix well. Then put in the milk heated. 
Let the mixture come to a boil, stirring all the time with 
a Dover egg beater. Put 1 tsp. whipped cream in a cup. 
Pour over the hot chocolate and serve. This mixture 
is not injured by standing. If it becomes cold reheat 
and stir with the beater. Louise Burwell. 

ICED TEA. 

4 tsp. black tea ; 4 cups cold water. Stir into the water 
the tea. Let stand 5 or 6 hours. Strain and serve in 
glasses with sugar, lemon and cracked ice. This is an ex- 
cellent way to make tea for picnics. The tea, water and 
sugar may be put in a glass jar sealed and carried with 
a lunch. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

SARATOGA COOLER. 

8 cups of cold water . 8 tsp. of sugar , juice of 4 lemons , 
1 pt. of ginger ale. Mix the lemon juice and sugar thor- 
oughly, add the water and chill. Just before serving 
pour in the ginger ale and add cracked ice. For this 
beverage the lemonade should not be too sweet. 

Mrs. O. K. Earle. 

156 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING ROOT BEER. 

5 cakes yeast, 3 tbsp. sugar, 1 pt. lukewarm 
water, i bottle Root Beer Extract, 5 gal. pure fresh 
water, slightly lukew r arm , 4 lbs. sugar. Dissolve 5 cakes 
of "yeast" and 3 tbsp. sugar in a pt. of lukewarm water. 
Keep in a warm place for 12 hours, then stir well and strain 
through cheese-cloth. Add bottle of Root Beer Extract, 4 
lbs. sugar and 5 gals, of lukewarm water. Mix thoroughly 
and bottle. (Tie or fasten in corks.) Keep in warm place 
about 48 hours. After cooling it is ready for use. Keep in 
cellar or place of low temperature. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Pick grapes off stems (Concord are best) just cover 
with cold water, let boil until skins come off, strain 
through flannel bag. Add one cup sugar to 1 qt. juice. 
Let boil and seal hot. Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

DANDELION WINE. 

4 qts. dandelion flowers, 4 qts. water, grated rind of 
2 oranges, grated rind of 1 lemon. Boil 20 minutes, 
strain and to the juice add 3y 2 lbs. granulated sugar; 
let cool, and when lukewarm add *4 cake of yeast ; slice 
in the 2 oranges. Let stand 3 or 4 days, then bottle 
but do not cork tight. Mrs. William Gawne. 



157 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Squeeze the juice from a can of grated pineapple, 6 
lemons and 3 oranges. Strain all together into a bowl. 
Add a pt. jar of preserved cherries and 1 of strawberries. 
Sweeten to taste and let stand for 3 hours. When ready 
to serve add 2 qts. of ice water and a qt. of pounded 
ice. Serve in glasses. You may add a bottle of good 
claret. Appolinaris may be substituted for water. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil a pt. of sugar and 2 qts. of water for 10 minutes 
and set away to cool, for lemonade is always better 
when sugar and water is boiled in a syrup. To this 
add y 2 pt. of lemon juice, 1 pt. of strawberry juice, and 
small pineapple grated or 1 can of grated pineapple. 
When ready to serve put in a little cracked ice some 
whole strawberries and slices of lemon. Some red cher- 
ries may be substituted for strawberries if you desire. 

Mrs. William Moorhead. 

COFFEE FOR FOUR. 

4 cups water, 4 heaping tsp. coffee , a small part of both 
yolk and white of an egg. Put 1 cup of cold water in a 
bowl, add the egg and beat with a fork. Add the cof- 
fee and beat all together. Put in white porcelain cof- 
fee pot and pour over 3 cups of boiling water. Cover 
the pot to be airtight so that no aroma escapes. Put 
on stove and let slowly come to a boil, stirring once or 
twice. Put on cool part of the stove for 2 or 3 minutes. 
Add *4 cup cold water and serve at once. 

Mrs. F. C. Burwell. 
15S 



NE PLUS ULTRA PUNCH. 

1 cup granulated sugar, juice of 6 lemons. Stir until 
dissolved, then put in 3 peeled lemons sliced thin and 
put on ice until ready to serve. Then add 1 qt. of 
powdered ice, one dozen sprigs of mint. Stir well for 
a minute and add from a height 5 bottles of ginger 
ale, 5/2 bottle red cherries. This is also called "Temper- 
ance Punch." Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 

ICE TEA PUNCH. 

6 tsp. tea; 1 qt. water, steep, strain and cool. x /l cup 
granulated sugar, 6 tbsp. lemon juice; 1 lemon and 1 
orange sliced thin ; 1 qt. strawberries , 2 cups pulverized 
ice, 1 bunch fresh mint dusted with powdered sugar for 
garnish. Add Appolinaris water when ready to serve. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Partridge. 

DANDELION WINE. 

Use one quart of water to one quart of flowers, 
steep dandelion flowers in boiling water for ten minutes 
and strain off the liquid, pressing hard through a 
cheese-cloth bag. Sweeten to taste and add brandy in the 
proportion of a pint to every four gallons of liquid. Put 
into uncorked bottles and keep in a cool place, covering the 
mouths of the bottles with mosquito netting to exclude in- 
sects and dust. When fermentation ceases, draw off, strain 
and bottle. 

ELDERBERRY WINE 

Is made of the blossom of the plant, and exactly as dan- 
delion wine is made. 

OR 
You may brew it of the berries, as you would cherry wine 
or that made from currants. This is highly medicinal and 
less pleasant of flavor than that made from the blossoms. 

159 



GRAPEFRUIT CUP. 

Halve 4 grapefruits and take out the pulp skillfully with- 
out tearing the rind. Cut the pulp into small cubes, freeing 
it from membranes and strings. With a sharp knife, a pair 
of scissors or a notching board notch the edges of the 
halves of the rind . then refill them with this mixture : 

Small ripe berries — raspberries or strawberries — Malaga 
grapes, prepared as directed in the last recipe , the cubes 
of grapefruit. Strew powdered sugar over each layer as 
you work. When all are in lay maraschino cherries (or 
preserved cherries or strawberries, if you prefer) upon the 
top of the filled cup. Set in a broad bowl in ice until it is 
to be served. 

Too much stress cannot be laid upon the necessity of 
keeping all kinds of fruit cups cold. The sugar extracts 
juices and tends to wither delicate fruits. The action of 
wine is even more injurious to crispness and freshness of 
flavor. Therefore, the cup should be eaten as soon as 
served. 

FRUIT CUP Xo. 3. 

3 grapefruits . 2 bananas . T £ lb. of Malaga grapes . 1 tbsp. 
of preserved ginger, minced fine ; 2 doz. maraschino cher- 
ries , powdered sugar to taste . 1 cup of sherry. Cut the 
pulp of the grapefruits into small pieces, bruising as little as 
- Me. Skin the grapes carefully and cut each in half, 
extracting the seeds. Peel and cut the bananas into cubes. 
With a silver fork mix in all the ingredients except the 
cherries. Fill chilled glasses with the mixture, put 3 cher- 
ries upon the top of each and leave in cracked ice until you 
are ready to serve the "cup." Then sprinkle with sugar 
and pour a tsp. of sherry upon the sugar. It will wash the 
sugar into the heart of the fruit. You may omit the wine 
if you like. If left too long in the cup. it withers the fruit. 

160 



FRUIT CUP No. 2. 

This is arranged in the glasses from which it is to be 
eaten. Put into the bottom of each glass 3 fresh straw- 
berries , y 2 tsp. of grated pineapple , a tsp. each of orange 
and of grapefruit pulp, a tsp. of lemon juice, ^ as much 
syrup from preserved ginger , 6 ripe raspberries or a tsp. 
of raspberry juice, and sift powdered sugar over all. Final- 
ly lay 3 maraschino cherries on the top of each portion. 
Fill the glasses and surround them with crushed ice until 
you are ready to send them to table. 



PINEAPPLE FRAPPE. 

Boil 3 cups of sugar and 1 of water until it strings from 
the tip of a spoon. Pour this syrup upon the beaten whites 
of 3 eggs and beat to a smooth cream. To this add a can 
of grated pineapple and as much cream and milk as will 
make the quantity you require. Let it get cold and freeze. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Slice 6 oranges and 6 lemons, after paring them care- 
fully. Cut a medium-sized pineapple into dice. Cut a pint 
of strawberries into halves , add to them a pint of red rasp- 
berries. Mix with the other fruit, strewing each layer with 
granulated sugar — 2 cups in all. Let all stand together 
30 minutes before pouring in three qts. of apollinaris or 
other effervescent water. If you like, you may use clear 
spring water. It will do nearly as well. Put a great lump 
of ice into a chilled bowl and pour this mixture over it. 
Taste before serving, and if it is not sweet enough, add 
sugar. This is enough for 30 persons. Fine! 



161 



RHUBARB WINE. 

Wash the stalks oi rhubarb well ami cut into bits, letting 
each piece fall into cold water as you cut it off. Add no 
water, but put the rhubarb, dripping wet, into a double 
boiler and. set in the outer vessel filled with cold water. 
Cover closely and bring- to a boil. When soft and broken. 
strain through a cheese-cloth bag and measure the juice. 
Add as much water as you have juice, sweeten to taste and 
allow a cup of brandy to each gallon of liquid. Bottle and 
seal. Stand the bottles upside down in sand or ground 
cork. 



CAFE NFOIR. (Black Coffee.) 

J cups coffee, 1 egg, cup cold water. 6 cups boiling 
water, • _> cup cold water. Mix the egg, crushed 

shell ami T £ cup cold water. Pour on boiling water and 
boil 5 minute-. Set on back of stove, add T i cup cold 
water and settle for 5 minute-. Serve hot. 



10: 



"Better late than never." 

PROPER WINES TO SERVE AT A FORMAL 
DINNER. 

With a first course serve a sauterne, slightly cold. 

With the soup serve sherry slightly cold in decanters. 

With fish serve rhine wine rather cold in bottle. 

With entrees serve claret slightly cold in decanters. 

With meats and poultry serve champagne, very cold 
in the bottle. 

Champagne should be placed on ice several hours be- 
fore serving. 

With game serve burgundy and champagne. 

With dessert serve port wine or maderia even tempera- 
ture, in the bottle. 

With coffee serve cordials and brandies from small 
decanters. 



163 



WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES. 



First year Cotton 

Second year Paper 

Third year Leather 

Fifth year Wooden 

Seventh year Woolen 

Tenth year Tin 

Twelfth year 

Silk and Linen 



Fifteenth year Crystal 

Twentieth year China 

Twenty-fifth year. . .Silver 

Thirtieth year Pearl 

Fortieth year Ruby 

Fiftieth year Golden 

Seventy-fifth year . . . 

Diamond 



BIRTH MONTH GEMS. 



Month 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 



Gem 
Garnet — Constancy 

Amethyst — Contentment 
Bloodstone — Courage 
Diamond — Innocence 
Emerald — Success in love 
Pearl — Purity 
Ruby — Nobility of mind 
Moonstone — Conjugal felicity 

Sapphire — Chastity 
Opal — Hope 



Flower 

Wild Rose 

Pink 

Violet 

Easter Lily 

Lily of the Valley 

Rose 

Daisy 

Pond Lily 

Poppy 

Cosmos 



Topaz — Fidelity Chrysanthemum 

Turquoise— Success and Happiness Holly 



164 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

4 teaspoonfuls of a liquid equal 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfuls of a liquid equal ]/ 2 gill or J4 cup. 

V2. cup equals 1 gill. 

2 gills equal 1 cup. 

2 cups equal 1 pint. 

2 pints (4 cups) equal 1 quart. 

4 cups of flour equal 1 pound or 1 quart. 

2 cups of butter, solid, equal 1 pound. 

Yz cup of butter, solid, equals *4 pound, 4 ounces. 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal 1 pound. 

2 l / 2 cups of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

1 pint of milk or water equals 1 pound. 

1 pint chopped meat equals 1 pound. 
10 eggs, shelled equal 1 pound. 

8 eggs with shells equal 1 pound. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of coffee equal 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoonful of liquid equals y 2 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 2 ounces or y*, cup. 

ABBREVIATIONS USED. 

tsp.— teaspoon. 

tbsp. — tablespoon. 

c. — cup. 

All measurements are level. 



"All is well that ends well." 



165 



INDEX 

Soups 9 

Fish and Oysters 16 

Egg Dishes and Omelets 26 

Poultry and Meats 29 

Vegetables 47 

Salads 58 

Cheese Dishes 68 

Bread and Rolls 71 

Cake 84 

Cookies and Doughnuts 101 

Puddings and Sauces 112 

Pie Crust and Pies 129 

Ices 134 

Preserves 139 

Pickles 146 

Candy 153 

Drinks 156 

Anniversaries and Birth Gems 164 

Table of Weights and Measures 165 

Advertisements 167 



Receipt for Happiness 

Take any well rounded family 

Wash thoroughly with ambition, 

Pare off the high cost of living in the cities 

Place in a Pullman bound for the 

A. C. Bohrnstedt Orchards in Oregon 

Take out in the even climate of a 10-acre 
orchard, 

Salt with mountain scenery, good schools, 
pure water and good neighbors. 

Add fresh fruits and vegetables on the 
table every day. 

Garnish with a profit from the orchard to 
support the whole family. 

Serve to anyone who will write to 

xtt£ A. C. Bonrnsteat Company 
917 ANDRUS BUILDING 




FRONTENAC INN 

CELESTINE M. SCHALLER, Manager 

FRONTENAC .*. MINNESOTA 



The fifth season of the Summer Resort on Lake Pepin — Frontenac Inn 
and Cottages — was formally opened May 1st, 1911. The buildings 
and surrounding park have been greatly improved and beautified. 

AMUSEMENTS — Fishing, boating, croquet and dancing. The bathing 
beach is one of the finest in nortewest. The large dancing pavilion 
is convenient to the Inn. The rooms and beds are clean and com- 
fortable. The table will be supplied with the best in market. The 
water is of the purest. Long distance telephones. A bus will meet 
all trains at Frontenac station. The Catholic and Episcopal churches 
are within easy walking distance. Frontenac is on the main line of 
the C. M.&St. P. Ry. and can also be reached by boat from St. Paul. 
The Steamer Red Wing will make landings. High grade gasoline 
will be kept on hand for launches and autos. Guests should have 
all mail put in care of Frontensc Inn. Direct all correspondence io 
the undersigned at Frontenace, Minn. 

CELESTINE M. SCHALLER, Owner and Manager 



WRITE FOR RATES 



SPECIAL RATES TO FAMILIES WHO SPEND THE SEASON 




u 


sm 


o >> 


Mr 


0) 


T fi 


- 
« 


4-1 


* cd 


» 
- 


(A 

-0 


*■ a 

0) fi 


- 

u 


0) 


£ 


^ 

U5 V 


- 










We Aim High And Rarely Miss The Mark 



With nearly thirty years connection with 
the grocery trade, we have not found at 
any time food products equal to the 
Monarch. You will find in our store a 
full and complete assortment of the entire 
Monarch line of everything good to eat. 



YERXA BROTHERS CO. 

"Master Grocers" 

Minneapolis, Minnesota 

Twin City Phone N. W. Phones 

1364 Main 99 

Main 990 

BOSTON FISH CO. 

All kinds of 

Fresh and Salt Water Fish 

-GAME IN SEASON- 



SPECIALTIES: — Oysters, Lobsters, 
Crabs, Shell Oysters and Clams 

616 Hennepin Ave., MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



SANTO 
VACUUM CLEANERS 



WHITE LILY 
ELECTRIC WASHERS 



Fries-Patterson Company 

Solving the Servant Problem with 

Household Labor-Saving Devices 



18 North Seventh Street 

Adjoining Shubert Theatre 



JUDD 
ELECTRIC WASHERS 



SIMPLEX 
IRONING MACHINES 



DICK HEINRICH 

AVANAGER 



BOTH PHONES 




OIIAI^AdAK:*® 



Creams and Ices 

Frozen Puddings 

Meringues 

Charlotte Russe 

Cake 

Candies 






Salads, etc. 
Table Decorations 
Flavors 
Candles 
Paper Doilies 



The largest and most complete assortment of Candle Shades in the Northwest 



R. M. CHAPMAN-BASTING CO. 



730-732-734 Nicollet Avenue 



MINNEAPOLIS 



R. H. DeGROODT <S CO. 

Hardware and Furniture 

Sporting Goods and Fishing Tackle 

Are very glad to announce to their many friends and 
patrons in the Twin Cities that they are equipped for the 
season of 1911 to supply anything needed to furnish — ren- 
ovate or beautify a summer residence. We sell Burpee's 

seeds and bulbs. 
EXCE.LSIOR :=: = :-: MINNETONKA 

HAROLD JOHNSON, President C. R. CORNING. Vice-President 

R. F. JACKSON, Secretary and Treasurer J. W. L. CORNING, Director 

Johnson, Jackson & Corning 

i Incorporated ) 

Building Material Specialties 

216-17 Lumber Exchange 633 Ryan Building 

MINNEAPOLIS ST. PAUL 

J. D. JAMIESON & CO. 

Staple and Fancy Groceries 

Excelsior, Minn. 

Where trade is appreciated at all times and all complaints 
made satisfactory. You will find us good natured and 
pleasant. Please give us a trial. 

TRI-STATE 3 N. W. 3-2 

AUG. HAY 

DEALE R * " Fresk and Salt Meats 

Poultry, Fisk and Oysters in season 

The only market in Excelsior cutting EXPORT BEEF the year around. 
Daily deliveries to lower and upper lake. 

EXCELSIOR -:- MINN. 



KELJIK BROTHERS 



EXCLUSIVE 



Importers and Dealers 



IN 



Oriental Rugs and Carpets 



823 Nicollet Avenue Minneapolis 



NORTHWESTERN NATIONAL BANK 

Capital and Surplus — Five SkZillions 



The best place to buy shoes 1 



SHOE MART 



623-625 Nicollet 



THE EDISON 
PHONOGRAPH 



♦♦ 



Stay at 
Home and 
Entertain 

Buy an 

Edison 

Phonograph 




M 



Education 

and 

Entertainment 

for all on 

an 

Edison 

Phonograph 



♦♦ 



TRADE MARK 

a£di 



14081-* 



The Ideal Home Entertainer 

Entertain your friends, educate your children and 
yourself to appreciate the better class of music. 

INSTRUMENTS $15 00— $250.00 

We are the WHOLESALE and RETAIL jobbers 
and Distributors of EDISON products 

MINNESOTA PHONOGRAPH GO. 

Our ONLY Offices and Salesrooms 

51 5— FIRST AVE. SO.— -51 5 



WHITE y McNAUGHT 

JEWELERS anJ OPTICIANS 

Diamonds and Fine Jewelry, Card Engraving, 

Watch Repairing and Manufacturing 
506 Nicollet Ave. MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



FRED D. DASSETT 

838 Hennepin Ave. 

: MEATS = 

When giving a dinner party see what Dassett can do for you in the Meat line 



Our Garments are Always a Step in Advance. 

Our splendid and ample stock, at all times com- 
plete, offers unusual opporunities fos selection, in: 

Shirts, Coats, Dresses, Waists, Millinery, Skirts 
and their pertinent accessories 

May we have the privilege of extending to you the cour- 
tesies of our establishment and demonstrating our well- 
founded claim to your attention and patronage. 



E. E. ATKINSON & COMPANY 

Nicollet at Seventh 
Women's and Children's Outfitters 



MKC MURPHY Massage and Scalp Treatments. Hair Work in all its 
ITIIJJ mUK.rH I Branches. Turkish and Violet Ray Baths 



827 Nicollet Avenue 



Eyesight Your Best Asset 



D 



O NOT destroy the fibre of 
your mind thru willful waste of 
energy caused by strained and im- 
perfect eyes and thus lower your 
mental tone and impair your physi- 
cal well being. 

T. V. Moreau Co. 

OPTOMETRISTS and OPTICIANS 
MINNEAPOLIS "Twin Pifi^c" ST> PAUL 

616 Nicollet Avenue 1 Will V^ltlCO 1 14 East Sixth Street 

Eyes Examined by Appointment Only 




yons 

7 South Seventh Street 

Sweets for the Sweet the Year 'Round 

Favors, Ices, and a Light, Re- 
freshing Lunch after Shopping 



Quality Apparel and Fabrics 

For Women and Misses 

Beautiful Silks, Handsome Dress Fabrics, 
Perfect fitting and durable Gloves and 
Hosiery, Dainty Undermuslins, Exclusive 
Millinery, Distinctive Styles in Women's 
and Misses' Suits, Coats, etc. 



Smart, up-to-the-minute 

Haberdashery for 


MEN 


Nicollet JnLsf^^^fj ^^T 


jft The 


at s Ji 11 wl£ £*?*§§£* la tiMl/ 


l7m/\ Reliable 


f ^m W m m M MM M »N^F# W "mmm wm \ 
Eighth ^^ 

MINNEAPOLIS 


Store 



FIRST NATIONAL BANK 

MINNEAPOLIS 

Corner 1st Ave. South and 5th Street 



This bank invites the mother's checking 
account; also the baby's saving3 account 



Established in the days of Lincoln, December 12th, 1864, 
this bank has been closely identified with the commercial 
growth of Minneapolis and the Northwest. 



Resources $25,0000.000.00 



No business is too large or too small to receive the close attention of the 
officers of this bank. 







Your Credit is 
Good at The 
New England 

A Regular Dollar Bank for 
25 Cents 



W 



r E FURNISH YOU WITH A STEEL SAFE exactly like illustration, except four times as 
large; a Safe made of finest tempered steel, superbly finished in oxidized copper, fitted 
with a genuine "YALE" combination lock and a device which prevents money being improperly 
extracted, the regular price of which is $1.00; but which, for the purpose above indicated, will 
be furnished for 25 cents at our store, or for 41 cents, postage prepaid by us to any part of the 
United States. 

YOU PAY US THE ABOVE AMOUNT— either 25c at our store or 41c by mail— we furnish 
you one of the Safes, which is numbered — we register your name, together with the 
number of the Safe on our Record Book list. WE KEEP THE KEY! 

YOU TAKE THE SAFE HOME, and, when you wish it opened, bring it to us— we wil 
unlock it for you and hand you the money TO DO WHAT YOU LIKE WITH. If, how 
ever, it is inconvenient to bring it to us, we will, on receipt of request from you, forward our 
"Master-Key" to our representative in your town, who will unlock the Safe for you. In either 
case, whether you bring the Safe to us to be opened here, or we send the key and the Safe is 
opened at your home, the money will be handed to you TO DO EXACTLY WHAT YOU 
LIKE WITH! 



IF, HOWEVER, WHEN THE SAFE IS OPENED, the sum accumulated therein amounts to 
$5.00 and you wish to loan it to the New England on demand AND RECEIVE INTEREST 
THEREON AT THE RATE OF (51 PER CENT, computed semi-annually, you are at liberty 
to do so; but, anyhow come in and get, or send for, one of these Safes; begin to save your 
pennies, nickels and dimes; then watch your savings grow. Remember the Safe is yours, the 
money is yours, to do with as you see fit; we keep only the key and open the Safe at any time 
on request. 

PROVIDED YOU ARE A CUSTOMER OF THE NEW ENGLAND and have surplus funds 
in any amount which you wish to loan on demand at five per cent, we will accept same, 
provided you purchase a Safe and comply with above requirements. 



New England Furniture & Carpet Co. 

Complete Furnishers of Homes, Offices, Hotels, Clubs 

Churches, Theatres and Public Institutions. 

5th St., 6th St. and 1st Ave. South, Minneapolis 



STYLE 



is the FIRST thing you require. Then you 
must have perfection in fit with a mini- 
mum of alterations. You require first-class 
fabrics that stand the wear, workmanship 
that will bear close inspection. All this — 
and low prices, too, at 



Pearce's 



403-5-7 Nicollet Ave. 



COMMON SENSE 

Will enable any cook to see from the illustrations below why "STOVER'' Waffle Irons are theibest 




Cross Section Stover Iron 



Has Ball and Socket Joint and 
Woo. I Handles 




Cross Section Other Irons 



The black represents the upper 
and lower plates, the center the dough 
or wafttes. Notice the even thickness 
of the Stover waffle, due to the arrange- 
ment of the teeth. On other makes the 
teeth stand opposite and the wattles 
vary greatly in thickness, making it 
impossible to bake evenly or quickly. 

The "STOVEa" is the one iron that 
always satisfies. 



Ask Your Dealer For It 

If he does not sell it, give us bis name and we will 
tell you where you can secure Stover Waffle Irons and we 
will send you some choice waftlc recipes We also make 
Wafer Irons for making wafers for ice cream Cones 
i ream puffs, etc. 

STOVER MFG. CO. 

721 Hance Ave. Freeport. Illinois 



A Few Items of Interest to Well Dressed Women 



Street Suits 
Dresses 
Costumes 
Street Coats 
Raincoats 
Motor Coats 
Evening Coats 
Riding Clothes 
Skirts 
Petticoats 
Waists 
Sweaters 
Bathing Suits 




Mm&^& 



Silk Hosiery 

Cotton Hosiery 

Wool Hosiery 

Lisle Hosiery 

Knitted Underwear 

French Lingerie 

Corsets 

Redfern, Kabo, 
Warner. Nemo, 
and W. B. 
Silk and Cotton Neg- 
ligees 
Irish Crochet Collars, 
Cuffs and Jabots 
Handkerchiefs 



Plumes 
Opera Hoods 



Opera Shawls 
Opera Veils 



Millinery Section 



Motor Veils 
French Hats 



English Hats 
Mourning Goods 



Bridal Veils 
Corsage Boquets 



The Plymouth Clothing House-- Hennepin and Sixth 



JUN 24 19" 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



HI* 24 « l » 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

iiiii 



014 480 215 9 

Thinks H 



Gold Medal Flour 



Washburn - Crosby Co. 



