3C3QC 



9 



SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



From the "Fair 



To the Fair 



A 3Uoral (Mferittg 
Fragrant 



Three Hundred Favorite Recipes 




Three Hundred Favorite Recipes 



PUBLISHED BY THE 



FLORAL LEAGUE 



FIRST CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH 



OF SAN FRANCISCO 



Church Fair 
November 23, 1911 



Press of 

THOS. J. DAVIS & SON 
22J-225 Davis St.. 8. F. 





EW of these recipes lay claim to the 
charm of novelty. Some have been 
met before in other company and less 
festive attire ; but we are just as proud to 
introduce old time favorites, tried and true, as the 
latest confection of a foreign chef. The most out-of- 
date possess an attraction all their own; while the 
bride-to-be and the bride who recently "has been" 
will probably find in these her firmest friends. As 
first aid to the injured (husband) the day may come 
when they will prove invaluable ! We commend all 
the three hundred to your hearth and home, gaily con- 
fident that "mixed" though they be, each one is per- 
fectly "safe." Their rosy sparkle bubbles up entirely 
from the spirit within, and owes nothing to spirits in- 
troduced from without even the Christmas Pudding 
is innocent of brandy. In this regard the humblest 
of them is decidedly "exclusive." 

The compiler is immensely grateful to the many 
friends who have so ungrudgingly given of their best. 
Only those who have been called on to part from the 
pet recipe of a household know the painful self-sacri- 
fice involved. "Whatever success this little book 
achieves will be due altogether to the ready help and 
kindness of the contributors, including in large let- 
ters Miss ELEANOR WARREN, whose charming sketches 
will capture every imagination and every appetite! 

A. A. 




" Look before you Cook." 



APPETISANS 

Anchovies a la Creme. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Make some toast, cut it into small square pieces, 
butter it, then spread thickly with the following mix- 
ture: Stir into a jar, placed in a saucepan of water 
over the fire, the beaten yolk of 1 egg, 1 oz. of butter, 
2 teaspoonsful of anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, 6 olives finely chopped, and a gill of 
cream, until it thickens ; it must not be allowed to boil. 
Spread it while hot on each piece of toast. When well 
chilled pile a spoonful of stiffly whipped cream on 
each one. Take some filleted and boned anchovies, 
cut the fillets in half, lay the 4 strips against the piled- 
up cream, the ends meeting at the top. 

Anchovy Creams. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Soak i/4 oz. gelatine in a little water, set over boil- 
ing water, stir until dissolved; whip 1/3 pint cream, 
add 1 good teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a pinch of 
cayenne, a squeeze of lemon juice, add the gelatine, 
stir lightly and pour into tiny moulds. Serve on rounds 
of aspic jelly. Garnish with endive or water-cress. 

Savoury of Caviar. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

One can caviar spread thin on circles of buttered 



10 

toast; add a few drops of lemon juice, a slice of to- 
mato, little mayonnaise, then the grated yolk of hard- 
boiled egg, sprinkle with little salt, paprika, and finely 
chopped parsley. 



Mock Caviar. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Six anchovies, ^ tablespoonful of olive oil, pepper, 
salt, cayenne, lemon juice to taste, yolks of 2 hard- 
boiled eggs; pound well; add 1 pickled walnut; mix 
smooth, and put in little heaps on small rounds of 
fried bread; garnish with water-cress and lemon. 



Croutes aux Olives. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Fry some neat croutons a golden brown, and spread 
them thickly with anchovy butter. Pour a little melted 
aspic over them, and in the middle of each crouton set 
an olive turned, the stone being replaced by a fillet 
of anchovy. 

Water-Cress Savoury. 
From Miss Taylor, of Liverpool. 

Fry small rounds of bread in butter, drain and 
cool. Chop water-cress very fine, rub it to a paste 
with butter and spread on the fried bread. Sprinkle 
with salt, cover with caviar seasoned with lemon 
juice. Scatter a little paprika on the top and serve 
with a garnish of cress. Always use a bone spoon for 
spreading the caviar. 



NOTES 




Time and table wait for no man." 



Consomme with Pearl Barley. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Put one quart of plain consomme in a granite 
kettle, add 14 cupful of well washed pearl barley and 

1 pint of boiling water. Let boil 45 minutes. Add 
1/3 cupful of cold breast of chicken cut in dice form, 

2 tablespoonsful of peas previously cooked, and serve 
with crisp crackers. 

Beetroot Consomme. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Wash, peel, and slice a raw beetroot and put it 
into some clear soup, well flavored. Bring to a boil 
and then let simmer gently until the beet is cooked, 
about one hour. Then add a few drops of carmine 
coloring and strain through a cloth. This consomme 
should be quite clear and a deep red brown. 

Consomme with Rice and Cream. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Put 1 quart of plain consomme in a stewpan and 
when it has come to a boil add a pint of boiling water 
and % cupful of cold boiled rice. Boil for 10 minutes, 
then add 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and salt and a 
cupful of cream. 



14 
Consomme a la Sevigne. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take some clear soup, garnish it with rounds of cut 
lettuce, tarragon, and parsley as below, also with some 
Royal cut into squares, diamonds or rounds. 

Royal for Soup: For three persons take 2 whole 
eggs and beat them up with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk 
or cream, or clear soup; season with pepper and salt; 
tammy; divide into two parts and color one part car- 
mine ; steam till firm in a buttered tin, and when cold 
stamp out into the desired shapes. 

Vegetables for Consomme: Cut the lettuce into 
rounds about the size of a ten-cent piece, put into cold 
water with a pinch of salt and a tiny piece of soda; 
let them come to the boil, then stand on the side of 
the stove for 4 or 5 minutes; pick the parsley into 
tiny leaves, and the tarragon cut in tiny diamond 
shapes, put them in cold water similarly to the lettuce, 
then strain and leave in cold water till wanted. 



Julienne Soup. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Cut carrots and turnips into quarter-inch pieces the 
shape of dice, also celery into thin slices; cover them 
with boiling water; add a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful pepper, and cook until soft. In another 
saucepan have 2 quarts of boiling stock to which add 
the soaked vegetables, the water, and more seasoning 
if necessary. Serve hot. 

N. B. In the spring and summer seasons use aspara- 
gus, peas, and string beans, all cut into small pieces 
of uniform thickness. 



Cream of Artichoke Soup. 
From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

% cup cooked artichokes, 1 quart milk, 1 slice onion, 
2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 10 grains pepper. Rub through a sieve the heart 
and soft ends of leaves before measuring. Scald milk 
with onion, remove onion, and add milk to artichoke; 
season and bind. 



Cream of Asparagus, of Green Peas, of String Beans, 
of Spinach, of Corn, of Celery. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

These soups are very delicate, and are much 
esteemed. They are all made in the same way. The 
vegetable is boiled until soft, and is then pressed 
through a sieve. A pint of the vegetable pulp is 
diluted with a quart of stock (the stock may be veal, 
beef, or chicken broth). It is thickened with a roux 
made of 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, seasoned with pepper and salt, and is then 
strained again so it will be perfectly smooth. It is 
replaced on the fire, a cupful or half a cupful of cream 
added, and the whole beaten with an egg-whip to make 
it light. Serve at once very hot. 



Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

One bunch of asparagus, 1 quart of milk, 2 even table- 
spoonfuls of corn -starch or flour, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Wash the asparagus, 
tie in a bunch, put in it a saucepan of boiling water. 



16 

Boil gently % of an hour; take from the water, cut 
off the tops, putting them aside until wanted. Put 
the milk on to boil in a farina boiler. Press asparagus 
stalks through a colander, add them to the milk; rub 
the butter and corn-starch or flour together until 
smooth; add to the boiling milk and stir constantly 
until it thickens. Now add the asparagus tops, salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

N. B. Canned asparagus may be used when fresh 
cannot be procured. One quart can will be sufficient. 
This soup may be varied by using 1 pint of veal or 
white stock, 1 pint of milk, instead of 1 quart of milk. 



Cream Celery Soup. 
From Mrs. William Hazlett. 

Equal parts of milk, and stock (made from chicken 
or bone from roast of mutton), celery rubbed through 
colander, salt, a little thickening; stir constantly till 
it comes to boiling point. Serve immediately. 



Cream of Corn Soup. 
From Mrs. J. J. Miller. 

Cook a can of corn or half a dozen ears in a pint of 
cold water for 20 minutes. Rub through a sieve, then 
add a pint of scalded milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
onions previously cooked in a little butter, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt and pepper. Strain 
and serve with squares of toast and a spoonful of 
cream. 



17 

Cream of Mushroom Soup. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Remove the fat from a quart of chicken stock, and 
stir into it a % pound of mushrooms, chopped, and a 
slice of onion. Simmer for 20 minutes, run through a 
colander, and return to the fire. Thicken with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour rubbed into 2 of butter, and stir 
until smooth, then beat in a cup of rich cream con- 
taining a pinch of baking soda, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

Potage Crecy. 
From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Peel 6 or 10 carrots, according to size, 1 onion, 1 
potato, pepper and salt, and cook for 3 or 4 hours. 
Pass through the colander and add stock. When it 
boils add tapioca; cook 10 minutes. Take away from 
the fire and add a good-sized piece of butter before 
serving. 



Pea Soup. 

From Mrs. C. S. Fee. 

One pint of green peas (or 1 can of peas), 1 quart 
of chicken stock, 1 cupful cream or milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 small 
onion, salt and pepper, 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
grated cheese. Cook the onion, peas and stock to- 
gether 20 minutes; remove onion, rub peas and stock 
through a sieve. Return soup to stewpan, and let 
simmer for 10 minutes. Rub butter and flour to a 
cream and add gradually to this half a cupful of the 



18 

soup; then pour this into the stewpan. Add pepper 
and salt and cream and cheese and boil 3 minutes. 
Serve in cups with a tablespoonful of whipped cream 
to each cup, on top. 



Pea Soup. 

From Miss Edith Slack. 

One can Marrowfat peas, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, 2 
cupfuls cold water, 2 cupfuls milk, 1 slice onion, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper. Drain peas from 
their liquor, add sugar and cold water, and simmer 20 
minutes. Rub through a sieve, re-heat, and thicken 
with butter and flour cooked together. Scald milk 
with onion, remove onion, and add milk to pea mix- 
ture, season with salt and pepper. (Peas too old to 
serve as a vegetable may be utilized for soups.) 



Cream of Spinach. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Pick, wash, and boil enough spinach to measure a 
pint when cooked, chopped, and pounded into a soft 
paste. Put it into a stewpan with 4 ozs. of fresh 
butter, a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt. 
Cook and stir it about 10 minutes. Add to this 2 quarts 
of strong stock; let it boil up; then rub it through a 
strainer. Set it over the fire again, and, when on the 
point of boiling, mix with it a tablespoonful of butter 
and a teaspoonful of granulated sugar. 



19 

Lettuce Soup. 

From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Boil lettuce, drain, and pass through colander, add 
yolks of 3 eggs, stir well, add hot bouillon ; stir on the 
fire but do not allow to boil. 

N. B. For six persons. 

Chestnut Puree. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Peel off the brown rind of 50 chestnuts; put them 
over the fire in a saucepan of cold water, and just as 
it boils up strain them off and remove the under skin ; 
stew them in some veal broth ; when quite tender pound 
them in a mortar, keeping back a few to be served as 
garnish for the soup. To this paste add 2 tablespoon- 
fids of bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, nearly ^ 
a, teaspoonful of pepper, and % & nutmeg; gradually 
mix with it a quart of stock and % a pint of milk; 
care should be taken in adding pepper and salt, if the 
stock has been previously flavored. Boil up while 
stirring, place the whole chestnuts in the soup, and see 
that its consistency is right; if rather too thick, add 
more milk or stock; if too thin, a few more bread- 
crumbs or the beaten yolk of an egg. Serve very hot 
Avith fried croutons of bread. 



Cream of Tomato Soup. 

From Mrs. Catherine Slack. 

One can tomatoes, 1 pint water, 12 peppercorns, 4 
cloves, bit of bay leaf, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, J /s teaspoonful soda, 



20 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 slice onion. Cook tomatoes, 
water, peppercorns, bay leaf, cloves, onion, and sugar 
20 minutes, strain, and add salt and soda; bind, and 
strain into tureen. 

Tomato Soup. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Peel and slice one large onion; fry it in butter until 
well browned but not burnt. Cut up 4 large tomatoes 
and put them, together with the fried onion, into a 
lined saucepan; add 2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 
a little pepper and salt, and 3 pints of good brown 
stock, flavored with celery and carrots. Boil for 1^ 
hours, then strain through a hair sieve. A little ham 
boiled with the stock greatly improves this soup. 



Tomato Bisque. 
PVom Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

One-half can of tomatoes, 1 quart of milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch, 1 
teaspoonful of salt, ^2 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 salt- 
spoonful of soda, dash of cayenne. Stew the tomatoes 
until very soft; then pass them through a fine sieve or 
strainer. Put the strained tomatoes into a granite 
ware saucepan, and add 1 saltspoonful of soda; when 
it has ceased foaming add the butter, a small piece at a 
time (if put in all at once it will show an oily line) ; 
add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Put the milk into a 
double boiler, and stir into it a tablespoonful of corn- 
starch which has been mixed with a little of the cold 
milk ; to make it smooth let it scald for ten minutes or 
long enough to cook the corn-starch ; then pour the milk 



21 

into the tomatoes; beat well together and serve at 
once. It is better not to add the milk to the tomatoes 
until just ready to serve, for fear of curdling. 



Clam Chowder. 

From Mrs. Maginnis. 

Ingredients: 2 dozen clams, 1 onion chopped fine, 
y pound salt pork, 2 medium-sized potatoes cut in 
cubes, li/2 pints of milk, 1 pint of hot water, season- 
ing to taste. 

Method: Cut salt pork in small cubes and fry a 
light brown, then add onion. To this add the necks 
of the clams which have been chopped fine. Pour this 
mixture in a saucepan with a pint of hot water. Let 
boil 40 minutes. Add potatoes. Boil 15 minutes longer, 
then add bodies of clams; let boil for 5 minutes; then 
at the last add hot milk and serve at once with 
crackers. 



Meat Soups. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

In making meat soups, put the meat into cold water 
and allow it to boil slowly, then simmer for 3 or 4 
hours, never ceasing to simmer; watch carefully for 
the albumen to rise, when it must be skimmed off again 
and again until it is perfectly clear. Soup should al- 
ways be made in a granite or enamel-lined kettle, as 
it is more healthful and the color is at the same time 
clearer. Beware of using too much salt, a little is 
better; more can be added as the soup boils down. 
Onions should be added as soon as the soup boils. 



22 

When making a thick soup, the vermicelli, rice, or 
whatever thickening is used, should be partly cooked 
before adding. 



Ox-Tail Soup. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Two ox-tails, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 onion, 2 
quarts of cold water or stock, 1 turnip, 1 bay leaf, 4 
cloves, 1 carrot, salt and pepper to taste. Wash and 
wipe the ox-tails. Cut them into pieces about 1 inch 
long. Put the butter into a frying-pan; when hot 
throw in the ox-tails and stir until they turn brown, 
then skim them out, and put them into a soup kettle 
with the onion, the cloves, the carrots, the turnip, or 
stock (the latter is the better) ; simmer until the tails- 
are tender, about 2 hours. Then remove the vege- 
tables, add salt and pepper and serve. 



Black Bean Soup. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Soak % pint of black beans overnight in cold water. 
In the morning pour off this water and put on to boil 
with plenty of fresh cold water. Boil very slowly 
about 6 hours. Pour away nearly all the liquid ana 
add to the beans a quart of good stock flavored with 
ham, a few cloves and sweet herbs, a carrot, a piece of 
celery and an onion, all previously cut fine and browned 
in butter. Into the butter left in the frying-pan put a 
tablespoonful of flour and rub together over the fire 
until brown. Put to the soup and simmer all together 
for an hour. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce and rub all 



23 

through a hair sieve. Serve with slices of lemon in 
the tureen. 

Lentil Soup. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put a large cupful of green lentils to soak all night 
in cold water. Drain them and put them into stewpan 
with 3 pints of light stock. Put with them 2 sticks of 
celery, 2 onions, 1 carrot, and 1 turnip. Bring the 
liquor to a boil and carefully remove the thick dark 
scum that rises to the surface; throw in a little cold 
water once or twice to assist the scum in rising. As 
soon as the soup reaches the boiling point, draw the 
pan back and simmer gently for 4 hours. When the 
vegetables are perfectly soft, season to taste and rub 
all through a sieve. The pulp will go through more 
easily if a little of the liquor is kept hot and is used 
to moisten it occasionally. Boil the soup again before 
serving. 

Potage a la Rockaway. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 4 well washed and dried cabbage lettuces, cut 
them into very fine shreds, put them into a stewpan 
with 2 ounces butter, a bunch of herbs, 4 peeled onions 
that have been quartered and then very finely shredded, 
the heart from a stick of celery, a pinch of salt and a 
saltspoonful of mignonette pepper ; fry these all together 
over a slow fire for 20 minutes, then mix with it 2 
ounces of farina and 2 quarts of any nice flavored 
white stock, such as that from boiled veal, rabbit, or 
chicken; stir these together over the fire; when they 
come to the boil let them simmer gently on the side 



24 

of the stove for % of an hour, keeping skimmed while 
boiling; then just before serving add to the soup % 
pint of warm single cream and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
finely shredded cooked chicken or rabbit ; have handed 
on a plate on a napkin one egg (prepared as below) to 
each person. 

Put some new-laid eggs into a stewpan with boiling 
water and boil for exactly 3% minutes, then take up 
and put them into cold water, crack the shells all 
round and carefully remove them without breaking 
the eggs; dish up and sprinkle with a little chopped 
parsley and use as directed. 



Partridge Soup. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Soak in tepid water for a few hours % pound of 
lentils. Put to boil with a quart of water or of good 
stock, with a minced onion, a sprig of thyme, a little 
parsley, and salt. Have a partridge; put to roast for 
10 minutes, and when brown, put to boil with lentils 
to cook. When done, bone it carefully, and pass the 
whole through a sieve. Finish seasoning, adding 1 
ounce butter, and give the required thickness, pouring 
in a little cream or milk. Serve with a few small dices 
of bread fried in a little butter. 



NOTES 




'It's never too young to learn." 



FISH 



Oyster Cocktail. 

From Mrs. J. J. Miller. 

Steep 1 teaspoonful of black tea in one pint of hot 
water until it cooks. Strain 1 can tomatoes through a 
fine sieve. Mix the tea and tomatoes, then add a 
twenty-five cent bottle of tomato catsup, juice of 1 
lemon, and a little salt and cayenne pepper; then add 
the oysters. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

Take 100 native California oysters to six persons, 
drain, take the juice of 2 limes or lemons, 1 large 
tablespoonful of pepper vinegar, 1% teaspoonfuls 
of Worcestershire sauce, 4 tablespoonfuls of tomato 
catsup, a dash of tobasco sauce, salt to taste, 8 table- 
spoonfuls of the oyster juice. Set on ice % hour before 
serving. 

Oysters Kirkpatrick. 

From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

Take a dozen oysters opening on the deep shell, salt 
and pepper to taste, putting a little tomato catsup on 
each oyster, add a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, 
sprinkle with paprika, putting a bit of butter on each 
one; bake in oven for ten minutes; serve on the shell, 
with square biscuits. 



28 

Crab Chops. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Shred 1 crab, add a thick cream sauce. Roll in bread 
crumbs and white of egg, and fry in deep hot fat. 
When cooked put a claw in each chop. 



Crab Creole. 

From Mrs. E. Carlson. 

One crab, 1 good-sized onion, % can tomatoes, 1 
chili pepper or pinch of cayenne, butter size of a wal- 
nut, 2 tablespoonfuls of water, % cup of cream, salt 
and pepper, 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch. Shred crab 
not too fine ; cut up onion and chili pepper, and put in 
pan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water; boil briskly for 
15 minutes, then add tomatoes. Boil 10 minutes 
or until soft. Strain, put back on fire ; add butter, 
pepper and salt, and thicken with the corn-starch. Add 
crab and cream. When all is hot, serve with toast. 

N. B. Quantity sufficient for 4 persons. 



Crab a la Creole. 

From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

For 2 crabs put into a saucepan a large piece of 
butter, 4 young onions sliced fine, 2 green peppers 
sliced fine, 1 large tomato sliced, season with salt, pep- 
per and a little cayenne. Stir gently for 10 minutes; 
then dredge in a little flour and add a cup of cream. 
Have the 2 crabs picked fine, and when almost ready 
to serve put them in the saucepan and cook for 5 
minutes. Serve hot on toast. 



29 

Dressed Crab. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take a freshly cooked crab, remove the large claws, 
crack them and take out the meat with a fork, also 
take out the inside of the crab and put it all in a basin, 
season with a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, a tablespoonful of salad 
oil, and a dessertspoonful of white tarragon 
vinegar, a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and a 
dust of coralline pepper, a pinch of salt, a 
tablespoonful of whipped cream ; stir together and then 
fill up the body of shell with the mixture, arrange the 
small claws round. Dish up on a paper or napkin and 
garnish with raw parsley. Serve for luncheon or sec- 
ond course. 



Deviled Crab. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Boil crab; take out meat; put it into saucepan with 
cream or milk ; 2 eggs boiled and chopped ; pepper and 
salt to taste, a dash of cayenne. Let it come to a boil ; 
put back into shell; cover with bread-crumbs and put 
in oven and bake. 

Deviled Crab. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Shred the crab into a pan ; yolk of egg, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of cracker-crumbs, 5 of melted butter ; salt and pep- 
per; (cook green peppers in it if obtainable, then pick 
out) ; milk sufficient to make moist. Cook ingredients 
well, stirring often; take out and cover with cracker- 
crumbs and butter; put in oven and bake. 



Baked Fish. 

From Mrs. Maginnis. 

One 4-pound striped bass or cod, 1 onion, % cup 
olive oil, 1 cup tomato sauce, % cup water, 1 table- 
spoonful Worcestershire sauce, a little parsley, % pint 
shrimps (or 1 dozen large Eastern oysters). After 
the fish has been well cleaned, seasoned and floured, 
place in baking dish with the ingredients, reserving 
the oysters or shrimps as the case may be. Bake 1 hour 
in a moderate oven, basting frequently. Add the oys- 
ters 5 minutes before serving. Garnish with sliced 
lemon and serve. 

Baked Sole. 
From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Put the fish in a baking dish that has been well but- 
tered first. Put a good-sized piece of butter on the fish, 
bread-crumbs, mushrooms, leaving in the oven 15 to 
20 minutes. Serve in dish in which it has been cooked. 

Souffle de Merlan. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put 3 ounces of butter into a stewpan with 3 ounces 
fine flour, 1 dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, a pinch 
of salt and pepper; mix with 3 gills of cold milk and 
stir all together over the fire; when cooked add grad- 
ually 4 raw yolks of eggs, and mix into it 2 dessert- 
spoonfuls of cream or milk and 9 ounces of finely 
chopped or pounded raw white fish; then mix in care- 
fully 6 whites of eggs that have been whipped stiffly 
with a pinch of salt. Have a souffle tin buttered and 
papered, partly fill it with the souffle mixture, sprinkle 
on the top a few browned bread-crumbs, put 2 or 3 
small pieces of butter on the top to keep the souffle 
from getting dry; place it on a baking tin and bake 



31 

in a moderate oven for % of an hour. Sprinkle on the 
top with coral and chopped parsley, and serve with a 
napkin as an entree or in the fish course. 

Fish Croquettes. 
From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Two cups cold cooked fish, % cup thick white sauce, 
1/2 teaspoonful salt, 1/8 teaspoonful pepper, */2 teaspoon- 
ful finely chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 
Flake fish with a silver fork. Add seasonings and 
sauce ; spread on plate to cool. Shape, roll in cracker- 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat; 
drain on brown paper. Serve with egg or tartar sauce. 
Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. 

Fish Pudding. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take l /2 pound of cooked fish and remove all the 
bones and skin and break the flakes with a fork. Take 
l /2 the weight of the fish in cooked potato, rub it 
through a wire sieve; melt an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, add a tablespoonful of milk, and when it 
boils stir in the potato and mix it thoroughly. Add 
the fish more lightly, season with pepper and salt, and 
lastly stir in a well beaten egg. Grease thickly a pie 
dish with clarified butter, pour the mixture into it, 
cover with small bits of butter, and bake in a moderate 
oven about half an hour. Turn the pudding out on 
a dish paper, garnish it with lemon slices and parsley 
and serve hot with any sauce preferred. 

N. B. This is a nice nursery dish. 

Mayonnaise of Fish (Moulded). 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take some cold cooked fish and shred it finely. Mix 



32 

with it half its bulk in cold peas and tiny dice of the 
red part of carrot. Season liberally and add a little 
chopped gherkin. Stir lightly into it enough mayon- 
naise to hold all together, then press it into a fluted 
mould, or a plain basin, and put it in a cool place 
until needed. Turn out and serve with sliced cucumber. 

Fillets de Sole en Mayonnaise. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take the fillets of sole, free them from skin and bone, 
bat them out with a cold wet chopping knife, season the 
skin side with a little salt and paprika and fold the 
fillets into kite shapes, the side not seasoned being 
uppermost. Place these in a buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle them with lemon juice, add 2 or 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of white stock, or water; cover the fillets with a 
well buttered sheet of paper, and cook in a moderate 
oven for 12 or 15 minutes when the fillets should be 
quite firm and perfectly white. When cold dip them 
in a thick mayonnaise, and when this has set dish them 
"en couronne," filling the center with Russian salad, 
garnished with strips of French gherkin, red chillies, 
etc. 

Salmon Cream. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take some cold boiled salmon; pound it in a mortar 
with a few washed and boned anchovies, a lump of 
butter, a dash of cayenne, and a little veloute sauce; 
when fine pass through a sieve, and add enough 
whipped cream to make the mixture soft and light. 
Coat some small moulds with aspic ; when set fill them 
with the cream; cover with aspic, and leave till firm. 
When turned out, dish them round a thinly-sliced 
cucumber salad. 



NOTES 




"Great Expectations." 



MEATS 



Baked Steak. 
From Mrs. C. O. G. Miller. 

One large porterhouse steak. Rub with garlic and 
salt. Pour over the steak 1 cup of chopped green pep- 
pers and onions; put 2 slices of lemon on top and 2 
large pieces of butter, 1 cupful of catsup. Put in a 
very hot oven, bake until brown, then pour over 1 cup 
of soup stock. Baste frequently. 

Breaded Chops Hungarian. 

From Mrs. W. W. Kerr. 

Bub both sides of a trimmed chop with an onion; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and roll in bread- 
crumbs; dip in an egg, which has been beaten with ^2 
cup of water ; drain the chop, then roll again in crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. Steam 1 cup of rice in 2 cups of 
salted water, for % an hour, then stir very carefully 
1 tablespoonful of butter, and 1 small can of French 
peas. Re-heat and place in buttered mould. 

Tomato Sauce: One pint stewed tomatoes, a little 
grated onion, 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig parsley, salt and 
paprika. Boil 10 minutes and press through a sieve. 
Heat again, add 2 tablespoonfuls butter worked with 
1 tablespoonful flour; stir constantly until boiling; 
add 2 tablespoonfuls parmesan cheese. 

Place the mould of rice and peas in the center of a 
dish ; place the chop around it, with sliced tomatoes, 
lemons, and parsley. Dust over with parmesan cheese. 
Sauce served in gravy boat. 



36 

Paprika Hankel. 
From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

One onion browned in butter, not too much. Quar- 
ter three chickens and let them stew, continually add- 
ing a little soup or water. When well done add l /2 
pint of sour cream and paprika. Let it boil up once 
or twice. Serve with a border of macaroni or rice. 

Poulet a la Princesse. 

From Mrs. C. H. Woolsey. 

A very young chicken trussed for boiling. Put into 
saucepan breast downwards, with enough water to 
cover. Add 1 onion, carrot, turnip, celery, thyme, bay 
leaf, parsley, mace, peppercorns. Simmer slowly for 
% or 1 hour. Then completely cover with 

Sauce Princesse: 3 ounces butter, 3 ounces flour, 3 
yolks of eggs, % cup cream, ^4 pint chicken stock. 

Chicken Italian Style. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Cut up a fowl and cook it in a stewpan with a little 
hot butter and salad oil till a light brown color; then 
add six tomatoes, three chilies chopped fine, and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of strong gravy. Cook slowly until tender, 
keeping the stewpan tightly covered. About % an 
hour before it is done add a little parboiled macaroni. 
Thicken with flour. 

Tomale de Casuela. 

From Mrs. G. H. Palmer. 

Ingredients : 2 cups yellow cornmeal, 2 eggs. 1 pint 



37 

olives (green, ripe, or both), 2 pounds pork (for stew) 
or a chicken, flour, butter or lard, salt, chili powder 
(Eagle). Utensils: Frying-pan, 2 stew pots, baking 
dish about 10 inches across top and 3 inches deep. 
If pork is used, remove all fat and bones, then cut into 
small pieces (about 2 inches). Boil until tender. When 
done, have a hot frying-pan and about two cooking 
spoonfuls of lard, drippings, or butter; season with 
salt (a little garlic if you like). Remove meat to fry- 
ing-pan, leaving the broth for use later. Fry meat 
quite brown, and keep stirring, as it is liable to stick 
to pan. Add more lard if necessary to fry in. When 
meat is quite brown, add a little of the broth (about 

1 cupful), also add 2 tablespoonfuls of chili powder and 
stir in well. Let this simmer on back of stove until 
you make the Porrage. Add more broth if too dry. 
Porrage : Have a large pot with a quart of water boil- 
ing; add 1 teaspoonful of salt. Then put in gently the 

2 cups of cornmeal, stirring all the time. Cook this as 
it' for mush ; but it must be quite thick. Add broth if 
too thick to handle. Add the eggs (beaten) and stir in 
then 2 generous tablespoonfuls of lard, drippings or 
butter, cooking slowly all the time. Line the bottom of 
your baking dish with a layer of Porrage ; add a layer 
of meat and sprinkle the olives over. Cover again with 
the Porrage, meat and olives. Repeat this until you 
fill the dish, covering the top all over with the Por- 
rage. Bake in slow oven for an hour. Sprinkle with 
water occasionally to keep from drying. This quan- 
tity serves six to eight plates. 

Mock Turtle Fricassee. 

From Mrs. S. D. Mayer. 

Cut 2 pounds lean veal into ^-inch slices, then into 



38 



squares. Heat 1 tablespoonful butter in fry- 
ing-pan and brown the meat, a few pieces at a time, 
adding more butter, if necessary. As fast as browned, 
transfer them to a saucepan containing 1 cupful of hot 
strong veal broth. When all are done, cover the sauce- 
pan closely, and simmer gently for 1% hours. In the 
butter remaining in the pan, brown 1 small onion cut 
fine and 1 dozen mushrooms cut in quarters; add them 
to the contents of the saucepan, also some parsley 
minced, salt, paprika, and a small strip of lemon peel. 
Put in the frying-pan a large tablespoonful of butter, 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, stir until well browned, 
then set aside. When meat is done add the gravy to 
the flour and butter in frying-pan and stir until smooth 
and thick; add juice of % a lemon; strain over the 
meat ; cut the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs into quarters ; 
cook 2 minutes longer and serve in ramekins. 



Blanquette de Veau. 
From Mrs. C. H. Woolsey. 

Two pounds veal cutlet, l /2 pound sausages, 2 onions, 

1 bunch of herbs, bay leaf, 8 peppercorns, 3 cloves, salt. 
Cut the veal into small pieces, add onions, herbs, pep- 
percorns, etc., cover with water and cook steadily for 

2 hours. Remove skin from sausages, flour hands and 
make up the meat into small balls, throw into boiling 
water and cook about 10 minutes. For the sauce, take 
1 pint of the stock, add it to 2 ounces of butter and 2 
ounces of flour ; stir till boiling, then add gradually the 
yolk of an egg (which has been mixed with V a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice), a tablespoonful of cream, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Stir until thick, strain and 
pour over meat. 



39 
Curried Mutton. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

1/2 pound of mutton, y<> tablespoonful lemon juice, a 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, a small onion, gill 
and a half of cold water, 1 tablespoonful of milk and a 
little salt and pepper, % pound rice and MJ ounce of 
butter. Chop the onion finely, then melt in a saucepan 
the butter, and when the steam rises from it put in the 
onion and brown it nicely ; then pour it out of the pan 
and strain it; then pour the liquid back into the pan 
and add the mutton which has previously been cut into 
several pieces, and when browned sprinkle over the 
curry powder ; then add by degrees the cold water, salt, 
and pepper; stir till it boils, then add the onion which 
has already been partly cooked, draw the pan on one 
side and allow it to simmer slowly for 1^ hours. Wash 
the rice, then plunge it into a pan of boiling water, add 
a little salt and boil quickly for 15 minutes. When the 
mixture in the other pan is done, add to it the milk and 
lemon juice, then take it from the fire. Strain the rice 
and put it round a flat dish and place in the center of 
it the curry. Mushrooms added to the above improves 
the flavor. 



Hamburg; Entree. 

From Mrs. J, H. Barnard. 

One-half pound Hamburg fried in olive oil. Three 
cups cooked spaghetti, 15 cents worth of dried mush- 
rooms soaked in boiling water 15 minutes and chopped 
fine. One clove of garlic, 1 can tomatoes with peppers, 
a very little clove and allspice, little salt. Serve on 
toast or plain. 



40 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms. 
Prom Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

One-half pound sweetbreads, 1 small can French 
mushrooms. Wash sweetbreads and let soak in cold 
salted water for ^ an hour. Then boil 20 minutes, 
remove from fire and carefully pick out all gristle and 
sinews; chop fine with mushrooms and a little parsley. 
To make sauce, take 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, salt and cayenne to taste, ^ pint or 1 
cup of cream or rich milk, 1 tablespoonful Worcester- 
shire sauce. If too thick add a little milk or mushroom 
liquor. Serve in patty shells or on toast. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

One pair of sweetbreads, parboiled, blanched, and cut 
into small pieces; % pint of cream, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, salt, white pepper, and 
a pinch of nutmeg ; melt the butter over boiling water, 
stir in the flour, and when this is well mixed, the cream ; 
as soon as the sauce is smooth put in the seasoning 
and cook for 5 minutes. 



Deviled Kidneys. 
From Mrs. Monroe Salisbury. 

Wash and split lamb kidneys, removing membrane. 
Let them remain in cold water for few minutes. Take 
them out, shake each piece to remove moisture, but do 
not dry them. Roll the pieces in flour. Have ready a 
large spoonful of butter ; when melted put in the floured 
kidneys. Cook them for three minutes, turning them, 



and then stir in % cupful of boiling water. The flour 
in which the kidneys were rolled will thicken this to 
a smooth thick sauce. Should it fail to do this add a 
little more flour, moistening it with cold water. Sea- 
son the sauce with a generous tablespoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce, 3 or 4 drops tobasco sauce, a dash of 
paprika, % teaspoonful salt and 1 teaspoonful of 
Kitchen Bouquet. Stir until sauce is thick and smooth. 
Serve hot on slices of toast. 



Gold Beef Cannelons. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

One-half pound cold beef passed through a sausage 
machine, 2 ounces of finely chopped suet, a little cooked 
bacon, 1 ripe tomato rubbed through a sieve, a little 
salt and pepper and 2 ounces brown bread-crumbs. Add 
a beaten egg and mix all well together. Grease a drip- 
ping tin and put the mixture on in a roll. Sprinkle 
with crumbs and put little bits of butter over. Bake 
20 or 30 minutes and serve with tomato sauce round. 



Mutton on Toast. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Two cups minced left-over mutton, 6 yolks hard- 
boiled eggs, 14 teaspoonful mustard (scant), ^ tea- 
spoonful salt, few grains cayenne, 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, 1 cup cream or milk. Rub yolks of eggs through 
a sieve and add seasoning. Add mutton finely minced, 
and cream or milk. Melt butter in saucepan, add mix- 
ture. Serve on toast. Lamb may be used in place of 
mutton, or minced veal. With veal, a garnish of % a 
broiled tomato on each portion may be used. 



42 
Peppers with Meat. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Chop any kind of cold meat you may have on hand, 
and mix with equal proportions of bread-crumbs. Sea- 
son with salt and small amount of minced onion. Make 
a brown roux of butter and flour, add boiling water and 
some strained tomatoes. With this sauce mix the 
chopped meat and crumbs to a moist but not too soft 
consistency. Stuff the peppers with this mixture, stand 
upright in a baking-pan and pour around them a cupful 
of hot water. Bake in a moderate oven about 20 min- 
utes, and serve as entree or luncheon dish, using the 
remainder of the brown tomato sauce with them. 



French Pie. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take % pound of beef, % pound of veal, and ^ 
pound of pork, pepper and salt, 1 wineglassful of stock 
or water, 1 sheet of French gelatine dissolved in the 
stock or water. Pass the meat through a mincing 
machine, or mince it with a knife, put it into a fireproof 
dish, add pepper and salt and the dissolved gelatine; 
press it down, then lay on top a couple of bay leaves 
and some slices of bacon. Bake 4 hours in a cool oven ; 
when half cold, cover by putting on top a plate with a 
weight on it; remove fat and bacon from top. Beef 
only can be used if desired, but the veal and pork are 
a great improvement. 



43 
Mayonnaise of Minced Beef. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take the remains of a cold joint of beef, chop finely, 
or if not very tender meat, put it through a mincer, 
taking care not to allow it to form into a paste. Sea- 
son highly and mix very lightly with mayonnaise until 
fairly moist but not sloppy. Now pile it onto the dish 
in which it will be served, mask it with very thick 
mayonnaise and serve garnished with rounds of toma- 
toes or beetroot. 



Mousseline de Volaille en Chanfroix. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take the flesh of a cold, cooked fowl (roast will do, 
but of course it is best if braised for this purpose), 
and of the bones, which should be well broken up, make 
a good stock, flavoring it with the usual soup vegetables 
and herbs. When ready, strain this off and to three 
gills add */2 ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved ; then stir 
in 10 ounces of the chicken, previously minced and 
pounded smooth with 4 ounces of ham fat, seasoning it 
all with salt, mace, and white pepper. When this is 
nearly cold, stir into it 1 gill of stiffly whipped cream. 
Pack it in a plain Charlotte mould, and place it on ice 
till set, then turn it out and mask carefully with a white 
ehanfroix sauce, and again place it on ice. Serve gar- 
nished with sliced cucumber and tomato, seasoned 
lightly with a French salad dressing. 



NOTES 



NOTES 




"Still waiters run cheap." 



VEGETABLES 



Artichauts Assaisonnes. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Boil artichokes in the usual way until tender. Then 
have ready slices of toast, well buttered and cut into 
squares of 2% inches and placed in the oven to keep 
hot. Trim off the stalks of the artichokes, and remove 
the leaves and the "chokes." Place each artichoke on 
a piece of toast. Then as rapidly as possible scrape with 
a silver spoon, all the soft part at the roots of the 
leaves into a plate. Beat this small; add pepper and 
salt and some mixed herbs, with a tablespoonful or 
two of fine crumbs. Put a small piece of butter in an 
enameled saucepan, and when quite hot warm up the 
mixture, and fill in the hollow artichokes with it. Serve 
as hot as possible, as either a savoury or an entree. 

Baked Bananas (Good with Meats). 
From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

Take 1 large tablespoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; cream them together; add the juice of a 
lemon; peel bananas; put them in a baking-pan, and 
baste often with the sugar, butter, and lemon. Bake 
for about 20 minutes. 

Puree of Carrots. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 1 pound of cleansed carrots, peeled and washed, 
put them into cold water with a little salt ; bring to the 
boil, strain and rinse them and put them back into the 



48 

stewpan with enough light stock to cover; add a little 
liquid carmine and apricot yellow, and a dust of castor 
sugar ; simmer the carrots till tender, then pound them 
into a paste with 3 plain boiled potatoes, and put the 
puree through a hair sieve ; add a pat of butter and a 
little cream ; stir till boiling ; then use. 



Stewed Celery. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Five ounces celery, % pint new milk, % ounce of 
flour, and 1 ounce butter. Cut the celery into pieces 
1 inch in length ; place 'it in a double pan with as much 
milk as will cover it; boil gently till tender, drain it, 
season with pepper and salt ; thicken with the flour and 
butter; boil the whole a few minutes and serve with 
toast. Or it may be stewed in white stock and cream 
added at the last. 



Concombres a la Bretonne. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Boil one or two cucumbers till quite tender, drain, 
and remove all the green rind, cut into little rounds 
about an inch thick, take out the seeds and arrange 
neatly on a hot dish ; fill each case with a highly sea- 
soned mince of game preferably put into the oven 
for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and pour 
round the dish a thick brown gravy seasoned. with tar- 
ragon vinegar. Sprinkle a little very finely chopped 
parsley over each little round of mince, and serve. 

N. B. This dish makes a very attractive looking 
entree if care is taken to have the cucumber rings of 
equal size. 



Corn au Gratin. 
From Mrs. A. R. McMichael, of New York. 

Take 4 ears of cold boiled corn, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, 1 of flour, ^ cupful of milk, salt and pepper 
to taste, 2 eggs. Shave the corn from the cobs. Make 
a sauce of the butter, milk, and flour, add the seasoning 
and the eggs, beaten separately. Mix all together and 
put it into a pie dish. Scatter grated parmesan thickly 
over the top with a few tiny pieces of butter, and bake 
about 20 minutes. 

N. B. The eggs may be omitted. 



Stewed Endive. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

After the endive has been well picked and washed 
(it should be the broad-leaf kind), it must be slightly 
parboiled in 4 different waters, to destroy the bitter- 
ness peculiar to it; then boiled in salt and water until 
done, when it must be thrown into cold water, well 
squeezed, and chopped as fine as possible. Then put 
it into a stewpan upon a lump of butter; let it dry, 
then add a little thickened gravy, salt, and pepper, 
and 2 lumps of sugar. Let it stew gently for a quarter 
of an hour; then serve it under sweetbreads, or any 
dressed meat that you like. 



Mushrooms a la Russe. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Clean and wash the mushrooms; wipe dry, and if at 
all large cut in half. Put into a saucepan a lump of 
butter and when it is hot add to it mushrooms, seasoned 



50 

with salt and pepper. Cover the pan and allow the 
mushrooms to saute very slowly until tender, shaking 
frequently. Ten minutes before serving strain the 
liquor from the mushrooms and add to it a large cup- 
ful of thick, rich, white sauce and half a cupful of sour 
cream. Put back with the mushrooms, add a pinch of 
chopped fennel. Make very hot and serve with fried 
sippets of bread. 

Onions (Glace). 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Peel 4 large onions and put them into a stewpan 
with a little salt, % pound of powdered sugar and 1 
quart of strong broth. Set the pan in the oven and. 
cook slowly from 6 to 8 hours. The broth should be 
reduced to a glaze. 



Stuffed Peppers. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Cut the tops from the peppers and remove the seeds ; 
chop fine some cold veal or chicken (already cooked) ; 
add a little mace, bread-crumbs, butter, salt and pepper, 
using some of the removed seeds. Mix together to a 
paste; then stuff the pepper. Replace tops which are 
held on by wooden toothpicks. Bake in oven, basting 
once in a while. 



Peppers with Creamed Fish. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Parboil the peppers 10 minutes, then fill with creamed 
fish of any kind, seasoned with a tablespoonful of 



51 

parsley. Then sprinkle with a layer of fine crumbs, 
dot with butter and brown lightly in a quick oven. 



Potatoes and Cheese. 
From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Cut potatoes in thin slices, butter a dish, put one 
layer of potatoes, a layer of butter, one of grated 
cheese ; again put one layer of potatoes and so on until 
dish is full. See that the last layer is of cheese. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt and bake one hour. 



Baked Cream Potatoes. 
From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

Cut raw potatoes in very thin slices and put a layer 
of them in a buttered earthenware dish and cover the 
layer with pieces of butter and season well with pepper 
and salt. Then put in another layer and season in 
the same way, proceeding in this manner until dish is 
full. Over all pour a pint of cream or rich milk and 
set in oven to bake for half an hour. 

N. B. This makes a very nice lunch dish. 



Stuffed Potatoes. 
From Miss Frances Jones. 

Bake potatoes of equal size ; when done and still hot, 
cut the- potatoes in two. Scoop out the inside, work 
very smooth, and to each 4 good-sized potatoes allow 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 
salt and pepper to taste. Put the mixture in a sauce- 



52 

pan, stir over the fire until hot, and if not soft add more 
cream or milk. Remove from the fire; stir in 1 egg 
beaten light without separating. Fill the shells and 
brown in a quick oven. One tablespoonful of grated 
cheese can be added to the mixture if desired. 



Italian Spaghetti. 

From Miss Eleanor Warren. 

Ingredients : Genoa spaghetti, Roman cheese, Naples 
salsine (lOc can), canned tomatoes, garlic, onions, fresh 
pork, parsley, vinegar, salt, pepper, and lard, veal 
cutlets or steak from the round (for a more elaborate 
dish a chicken is sometimes used). 

If chicken is desired, it is cut up as if for frying 
and put in the pot with the other meat and fried 
brown. Veal is the most commonly used, and 4 cutlets 
will be enough for eight people. 

Method: Cut all fat from the meat and remove the 
bones. Slash the entire surface with fine cuts. Cover 
thick with garlic cut fine; over this sprinkle parsley 
also cut fine. Put small, thin strips of fat pork over 
the parsley and salt and pepper it well and cover with 
grated cheese (not too much). Roll the meat in small 
close rolls and tie well with string. Heat a large cup 
of lard in a deep kettle and brown an onion sliced. 
Strain out the onion and put in the meat. If chicken 
is used it must be put in at the same time. Turn the 
meat over often and fry very brown. Pour over the 
meat a can of strained tomatoes (crushed through a 
colander), a can of salsine, and l 1 /^ cans of water 
poured from the salsine can. Salt and pepper well 
and if desired add a very small piece of bay leaf. 
Cover and stir frequently. When the meat is almost 



53 

done put over the fire a large kettle of boiling water 
salted with a common sized tumbler of salt. Break 
the spaghetti in half (if it is the long Italian paste) 
and put it in the water and boil for 25 or 30 minutes, 
or until tender. Take it from the water, strain and 
put a part on a large platter; mix carefully with some 
of the sauce, then add a layer of grated cheese and 
so on until all is used. Serve the meat cut in slices 
on a separate platter. 



Spaghetti a la Milanaise. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Boil i/2 pound spaghetti until tender; strain and 
place in a hot dish. Mix with it a tablespoonful of 
tomato conserve and a tablespoonful of grated par- 
mesan cheese. Toss lightly together with 2 forks until 
the cheese hangs in fine strings between the pieces of 
spaghetti. Serve immediately. 



Puree of Spinach. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 2 pounds of fresh spinach, pick the stalks off 
and wash it well, then put it in a saucepan and cover 
with cold water and add a pinch of salt and a tiny bit 
of soda; bring to the boil quickly, keeping it well 
pressed down with a spoon, and when it boils strain 
into a colander or sieve ; rinse with cold water, then 
press or rub through a coarse wire sieve, and put it in 
a stewpan with 2 ounces butter, a pinch of salt, pepper, 
and sugar, and a tablespoonful of sifted flour; mix 
well together, add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or good 
gravy ; stir till it boils, then use. 



54 

Baked Tomato and Egg Plant. 
From Mrs. S. D. Mayer. 

Take a deep earthenware dish and pour into it a 
cup of cream ; cut several slices of egg plant very thin, 
salt well and line the dish with them ; slice 2 large to- 
matoes and place a layer of these on the egg plant, 
next a layer of the finest quality of macaroni (cooked) ; 
sprinkle with grated cheese. Salt and pepper to taste 
while forming the layers. Cover this with another 
layer of tomatoes, and a top layer of egg plant. Bake 
slowly 1 hour and 20 minutes. Serve in the dish in 
which it is baked. 



Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 
From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Divide % pound macaroni into 4-inch pieces, add 1 
can tomatoes, cook until tender, add 1 clove of garlic, 
1 large lump of butter, salt and pepper or paprika to 
taste. When done, put on platter, sprinkle with grated 
parmesan cheese and serve hot. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Mushrooms. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Cut the tops from 8 tomatoes, and remove the seeds 
and soft parts; then allow some of the juice to drain 
off and sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper. Make 
a filling by chopping up fine a ^ pound of mushrooms ; 
season them with salt, pepper, and a very little onion 
juice, and mix in the tomato juice. Cook slowly in a 
little butter, stirring the mixture, until the mushrooms 
are soft. Then fill the tomatoes ^ cover the tops with 



55 



grated bread-crumbs, put them on a buttered pan in 
the oven, and cook until the crumbs are slightly 
browned. 



Wilted Lettuce. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

Tear lettuce in strips crosswise and place in a hot, 
covered dish. Pour over the following sauce while 
boiling and let it stand for 3 or 4 minutes before 
serving: 4 strips of bacon cut into % inch pieces, 1 
slice of onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of water. Fry bacon 
and onion until crisp; add sugar dissolved in liquids; 
cook until it boils. 



i 




It is better to have looked and learned than never 
to have learned at all." 



NOTES 



Preserves and Pickles 



Lemon Conserve. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

One-quarter pound of fresh butter, 1 pound of pow- 
dered white sugar, 6 eggs, 3 large lemons. Put the 
butter in a stewpan and when dissolved add the sugar, 
the yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 4, well beaten, also 
the grated rind and juice of the lemons. Stir the whole 
mixture over the fire until it is as thick as a good 
cream. Pot and tie down as for ordinary preserve, and 
the conserve will keep good for several months. When 
used for cheesecakes add a sponge cake made into 
crumbs. 

Apricot Marmalade. 

From Mrs. J. J. Miller. 

Remove the stones from 10 pounds of very ripe 
apricots. Cook with 1 pint of water until soft enough 
to put through a colander. Add 5 pounds of sugar 
and cook y% or % of an hour; 10 minutes before re- 
moving from fire, stir in a bowl of chopped, blanched 
almonds. 

Apricot Marmalade. 

From Mrs. J. B. Woolsey. 

Five pounds fruit pitted and cut up, 3^/2 pounds fine 
sugar, y 2 pound blanched almonds chopped very fine. 
Put alternate layers of fruit and sugar in a kettle and 
let stand over night; cook carefully, stirring an hour 
or more (until the marmalade sputters) ; add the nuts, 
cook 10 minutes, stirring constantly. 



58 

Apricot Marmalade. 
From Mrs. Aylett R. Cotton. 

Twenty pounds apricots, 2 cans pineapple, or equal 
amount fresh. Put apricots on and chop pineapple, and 
boil each in separate vessels 40 minutes, add sugar 
pound for pound or use a little less ; boil until rich, and 
mix together and can. 

Orange Marmalade. 

From Mrs. Aylett R. Cotton. 

Six oranges, 3 lemons, 16 cups water. Let stand 24 
hours, and boil 1 hour. Remove from fire, and stand 
another 24 hours. Slice very thin, and see that the 
oranges are thin skinned. Add 20 cups sugar and boil 
until it jellies, that is, until it falls from the spoon in 
drops. 

Orange Marmalade. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Two oranges, sliced thin; 1 lemon, sliced thin; 1 
grape fruit skin, sliced thin. Let this stand over night 
covered with cold water. Next day cook it till tender, 
then add sugar, equal part, and cook until it is about 
as thick as jelly. 

Apricot and Pineapple Jam. 
From Mrs. S. H. Boardman. 

To 15 pounds apricots put one large pineapple. Stone 
and peel apricots and cut in quarters; pineapple the 
same. Let it stand all night. Measure next morning 



59 



and put % of a pound of sugar to every pound of 
fruit. Cook % to 1 hour. 



Cranberry Jelly. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

To 1 quart of cranberries add 1 pint of cold water; 
cover the saucepan, and cook until the berries burst, 
which takes but a few minutes; then add 1 pint of 
white granulated sugar, leave cover of stewpan off, 
and cook slowly half an hour; strain, and put into 
moulds that first have been dipped in cold water. 



Grape Jam. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

The grapes must not be quite ripe, and they must be 
most carefully picked over, all unsound ones being 
taken out. Wash gently. Put the fruit into an enam- 
eled pan, allowing % pound of sugar to 1 pound of 
fruit. Use no water. Boil rather quickly for % of an 
hour, stirring constantly. Pour, when cool, into jars 
and seal. 



Fresh Prune Jam. 
From Mrs. H. C. Botsford. 

Wash the prunes, put in the preserving kettle, cover 
with water, boil till tender, remove pits and skins, then 
measure with equal amount of sugar, cook until con- 
sistency of jam; add 1 cup of chopped walnuts to 3 
cups of fruit. Boil well ; flavor with vanilla. 



60 

Raspberry Jam. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

To 3 pounds of raspberries add one pound of cur- 
rants (the juice of them preferred) ; put % of a pound 
of sugar to 1 pound of fruit. Let this stand a little 
while to extract the juice from the berries. Stir well 
to break the fruit while cooking, and when tender 
mash them and boil to a proper consistency % of an 
hour. 

Spiced Black Cherries. 

From Miss Danforth. 

Five pounds of black cherries, 2 pounds of white 
sugar, scant pint of vinegar, heaping wineglassful of 
cinnamon and cloves put in bag and boil in with 
cherries skim, and boil until clear and tender. Then 
put in jars. 

Spiced Cherries. 

From Mrs. Monroe Salisbury. 

Make a syrup of 4% pounds of sugar and 1 pint 
of water. Let it boil for about 10 minutes, then put 
in 6 pounds of stoned cherries (Royal Anne cherries 
preferable). Let boil for about % an hour and skim 
off scum. While making the syrup have 1 quart of 
cider vinegar in a saucepan on the back of the stove 
with 10 cents' worth each of whole allspice, whole 
cloves and stick cinnamon (the spices being tied up 
in about 8 little cheesecloth bags). Let the vinegar 
and spices remain on the back of the stove (while the 
cherries are cooking), getting thoroughly heated but 
never boiling, then squeeze the bags and put the vine- 
gar into the cherries. Mix thoroughly and take ifc 
right off the stove and put it into jars. 



61 

Currant Jelly. 
From Mrs. Monroe Salisbury. 

Pick leaves off a large boxful of cherry currants and 
wash them, putting them into a colander to drain. 
Put them, with a few tablespoonfuls of water, into a 
kettle and let it come to boiling point. Put in cheese- 
cloth bag and let them drip. Put juice on stove and 
get it thoroughly hot, then add sugar 1 pound sugar 
to every pint of juice. Let boil for 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove scum and put in glasses. 



Spiced Currants. 
From Mrs. I. H. Morse. 

Five pounds currants when picked, 5 pounds brown 
sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of cloves, 1 table- 
spoonful of mace, 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon, 1 table- 
spoonful of allspice. Put all together except the cur- 
rants and let it boil, then add the currants and simmer 
45 minutes. 



Spiced Figs. 
From Mrs. R. A. Gould. 

Seven pounds of figs, 4 pounds of sugar, 1 pint of 
best cider vinegar, whole cloves and stick cinnamon 
tied in bags stick one clove in each fig. Boil until 
figs are easily pricked with a fork; take figs out and 
put them into jars. Boil the syrup down until it 
becomes quite thick several hours, perhaps. Pour the 
hot syrup over the figs. It is not necessary to seal the 
jars while the syrup is hot. 



62 
Spiced Figs. 

From Mrs. C. 0. G. Miller. 

One box fresh figs. Prepare the following for each 
pound of figs: 1 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoonful ground 
cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, whole cloves, stick 
cinnamon. Add the sugar to the vinegar, boil up and 
skim, then add ground cloves and cinnamon; put in 
figs, a few at a time, and cook until tender. Fill the 
jars two-thirds full. After all the fruit is cooked put 
a tablespoonful of whole cloves and a tablespoonful 
of stick cinnamon to every quart of vinegar. Boil 
well and fill the jars at once. Peaches and stoned 
cherries may be prepared the same way. 



Spiced Peaches or Pears. 

From Mrs. William Hazlett. 

One pound fruit, % pound sugar, 1 gill vinegar, 
unground spices to taste. Boil all together until fruit 
is tender. Seal in air-tight jars. 



Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

From Mrs. I. H. Morse. 

Seven pounds peaches, 3 pounds brown sugar, 1 quart 
vinegar. Peel the peaches, stick with three or four 
whole cloves. Fill a little bag with whole spices, put 
it in with the sugar and vinegar and let it come to a 
boil; pour the boiling mixture over the peaches. Re- 
peat nine mornings. 



63 

Pickled Fresh Pigs. 

From Mrs. I. H. Morse. 

To every three pounds of white figs take one pound 
of brown sugar and one pint of vinegar. Take a small 
bag and put in some whole cloves and stick cinnamon ; 
put this in with the sugar and vinegar and let it boil. 
If the vinegar is very strong add a little water. Put 
the figs in a jar and pour the boiling mixture over 
them, bag and all, and cover tight. Boil up the mix- 
ture six mornings and pour over the figs while hot. 
They are then ready for bottling. 



Pickled Figs. 
From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

To 7 pounds of figs use 4 pounds of sugar, 1% ounces 
of stick cinnamon, 1 generous pint of vinegar. Stick 
3 or 4 cloves into each fig, according to size of fig. 
Put a layer into the preserving pan, scatter a portion 
of the stick cinnamon, broken up. over the figs, then 
a portion of the sugar, another layer of figs, cinnamon 
and sugar. Pour over them the vinegar. Let them 
simmer a while on the range until the sugar is fully 
dissolved, and a little longer; then boil them a short 
time. Put them hot into jars and seal them. 

Pickled Peaches. 

From Mrs. J. Nash. 

Ten pounds fruit, pared; 4^ pounds sugar, 1 quart 
vinegar; mace, cinnamon, cloves to taste. Lay the 
peaches in the sugar for an hour ; drain off every drop 
of syrup and put over the fire with a cup of water. 



64 

Boil until the scum ceases to rise; skim; put in the 
fruit and boil 5 minutes. Take out the peaches with 
a perforated skimmer and spread them upon plates to 
cool. Add the vinegar and spices to the syrup; boil 
15 minutes longer and pour over the fruit in glass jars ; 
seal while hot. 



Chow-Chow Pickle. 
From Mrs. C. S. Fee. 

One peck green tomatoes, 5 onions, 3 heads of cab- 
bage, 1 dozen green peppers. Chop separately, mix, 
salt well and drain over night. Put in a porcelain- 
lined kettle the following: 1 pound brown sugar, l /o 
teacupful of grated horse-radish, 1 teaspoonful of 
ground black pepper, 1 teaspoonful of ground mustard, 
1 tablespoonful of white mustard seed, 1 tablespoonful 
of celery seed. Cover with vinegar, and when it comes 
to a boil add the chopped vegetables and let boil for 
two or three minutes. 



Chow-Chow. 
From Mrs. I. H. Morse. 

One peck green tomatoes, 8 green peppers, 8 small 
onions, 1 teacupful horse-radish, 1 oz. whole cloves, 1 
teaspoonful allspice, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 nut- 
meg. Chop the tomatoes fine, put over them a tea- 
cupful of salt and let them stand over night. Pour 
off the water, add the other ingredients chopped fine. 
Scald 1 pint of sugar in 2 quarts of vinegar, put in 
the pickles to simmer, add 1 pint white mustard seed. 



65 

English Chow-Chow. 
From Mrs. I. H. Morse. 

One quart large cucumbers, 1 quart small cucumbers, 
1 quart string beans, 1 quart onions, 6 green peppers 
with seeds out, 1 large cauliflower. Cut all up and put 
in salted water 24 hours, then drain off water and 
bring to boiling heat. Put in all the vegetables and 
let it just come to a boil. Drain off salt water and 
have dressing ready, which you turn over, stirring as 
little as possible so as not to break the cauliflower. 

Dressing : 6 tablespoonfuls dry mustard, 1 tablespoon- 
ful dry tumeric, l 1 /^ cups of sugar, 1 cup of flour, 2 
quarts vinegar. Mix sugar, flour, mustard and tumeric, 
and wet with vinegar. As soon as vinegar is boiling 
add the mixture, pouring in slowly and stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. 



Piccalili. 

From Mrs. Aylett R. Cotton. 

One head cabbage, 1 box green tomatoes, 1 cook- 
spoon salt. Chop fine and let stand over night. Drain. 
In morning to 1 quart vinegar add two chopped onions, 
5 cents' worth of mustard seed, 1 tablespoonful celery 
seed, 1 red pepper (chopped), 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Boil until tender, then bottle. 

Sliced Green Tomatoes. 
From Mrs. Aylett R. Cotton. 

Slice 1 box tomatoes over night and add 2 cooking- 
spoons salt. Next morning drain, and if too salt wash 
in cold water. Next morning take 1 pint vinegar and 



66 

1 quart water, boil and put the tomatoes in and sim- 
mer (not boil, as that makes them tough) 15 minutes. 
Place in a sieve to drain. Throw this vinegar away. 
Then to 1 quart vinegar add 3 pounds brown sugar, 2 
sticks cinnamon and 1 tablespoon whole cloves. Boil; 
then put tomatoes back and simmer, and then can. 

Bengal Chutney. 

From Mrs. W. Grummit, of England. 

One pound coarse sugar, y 2 pound salt, 4 ounces 
onions, 3 ounces ground ginger, 6 ounces mustard 
seeds, 1 pound raisins stoned and chopped fine, % 
ounce cayenne, 2 ounces garlic, 3 pounds apples, *4 
pound tamarinds, 2% pints vinegar. The garlic and 
onions to be sliced, the apples pared and cored and 
put into a saucepan with vinegar and mustard seeds. 
Boil until soft, then mash them; when cold put in the 
other ingredients and mix well together. 

Chili Sauce. 

From Mrs. Aylett B. Cotton. 

(My mother used this). 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, 3 tablespoons salt, 4 onions, 6 
green peppers, 8 tablespoons brown sugar, 6 teacups 
vinegar. Boil 1 hour and bottle. 

Chili Sauce. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

Two gallons sliced tomatoes (peeled), 2 pints cider 
vinegar, 36 onions chopped very fine, 60 chili peppers 
chopped very fine, 10 ounces white mustard seed, 4 
ounces allspice (ground), 2 ounces cloves (ground), 10 
cups of white sugar, 1 cup salt. Let simmer for 3 hours, 
stirring most of the time. 



NOTES 



"Art mate tarar." 



S A U C E S 

Brown Sauce. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Mix 1/2 teacupful of brown sugar with 1/2 the quan- 
tity of butter; add 1 pint of hot water and a little 
vinegar with such flavoring as may be desired. Use 
1 tablespoonful of flour, moistened with milk, as a 
thickening, and boil. Should not be served hot. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Take 3 yolks of eggs and place saucepan on slow 
fire. Add butter gradually (cut in small pieces) ; stir 
all the time. As the butter melts and the sauce becomes 
thicker, add butter until there is sufficient for the 
number of people. Take off fire and place saucepan in 
a larger pan of hot water. At the last moment add the 
juice of 1% limes. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

From Mrs. Monroe Salisbury. 

Three tablespoonfuls vinegar or lemon juice. Let 
boil until but 1 tablespoonful remains, then add 3 
tablespoonfuls cold water. Allow to cool somewhat, 
then add the yolks of 3 eggs, one at a time, stirring 
vigorously. Put in double boiler and let warm slowly 
(never allow it to boil), adding 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
gradually. Stir constantly. Season with salt and pep- 
per to taste. Serve either hot or cold. Add a little 
cold water if the sauce gets too thick. 



70 

Cucumber Sauce For Fish. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Whip *4 cup of thick cream until stiff, then add 
gradually 1 cup of grated cucumber, 1 teaspoonful of 
onion juice, % teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Serve in cucum- 
ber or lemon cups, on the same dish with the shad roe. 

Lemon Sauce For Fish. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 1 ounce of butter, % ounce of flour, *4 pint of 
water, 2 yolks of eggs, juice of % a lemon, a pinch of 
cayenne. Melt the butter, stir in (off the fire) the 
butter, rub smooth, then add the water and stir until 
it boils up. Take off, stir in very gradually the yolks 
of the eggs and the lemon juice, season with cayenne. 
Cook for a few minutes longer, being careful not to let 
boil. Serve immediately. 

N. B. This sauce is improved by the substitution 
of white fish stock, or the liquor from oysters in place 
of water. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

From Miss Danforth. 

Make a butter sauce, add to it 2 tablespoonfuls of 
essence of anchovy, and % pint of picked shrimps. 
Stir well, and it is ready to serve. 

Chocolate Sauce Hot. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix in a small saucepan 1 cupful of sugar, 1^ 
ounces of grated chocolate and 4 tablespoonfuls of 



71 

boiling water. Stir this over a hot fire until the 
mixture is smooth and glossy; then gradually beat in 
1 cupful of hot milk. Boil for 5 minutes. Add 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract, and serve hot. 



Maple Syrup and Nut Sauce. 

From Mrs. L. C. Van Arsdale, of New York. 

Take 2 cups maple syrup, put on stove to boil; boil 
from 4 to 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until it 
begins to thicken a little on the edges of the spoon. 
Take from the fire and beat a little, just until it 
thickens, then stir in a scant cupful of chopped Eng- 
lish walnuts and set aside to cool. 

N. B. If this is beaten a little too long it will sugar 
and become hard, but this may be remedied by heating 
a little more syrup and mixing it in with the rest. 



NOTES 



NOTES 



"feat mt, teat *n*r." 



SALADS 



Artichoke Salad. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Marinate cooked artichoke bottoms in French dress- 
ing, drain, and cover with peas and dice of carrots 
and celery mixed with mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce.. 

Stuffed Beet Salad. 

From Mrs. E. V. Frick. 

Boil till tender large, sweet beets. When cold, scoop 
out centers, leaving only shell, and cut centers into 
cubes. Mix these beet cubes with carrots (cut in cubes) 
and green peas, which have been boiled with salt and 
allowed to cool. Mix beets, carrots and peas with oil 
mayonnaise, and put back into beet shells. Cover top 
with mayonnaise and garnish with parsley. 

California Salad. 

From Miss Janet Coleman. 

Cut a grapefruit and 2 oranges in sections, free from 
seeds and pith. Skin and seed a cup of white grapes. 
Mix these together, adding y 2 cupful of chopped pecan 
nuts. Arrange on a bed of lettuce leaves and pour over 
the following dressing : Mix 4 tablespoonfuls of grape- 
fruit juice, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, salt and pep- 
per, and 1 tablespoonful of grated Roquefort cheese. 
This dressing should be made some time before it is 
used, to allow the cheese to mix and soften. 



76 

Chestnut Salad. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Boil 1 quart of fresh chestnuts in 2 quarts of water 
until tender, about an hour. Five minutes before they 
are done add a handful of salt. Peel and skin and 
throw into cold water. Dry thoroughly and serve on 
lettuce with an equal quantity of chopped celery. Cover 
with salad dressing. 



Iced Cheese Cream. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Make a good savory custard flavored with grated 
parmesan cheese and salt, but no pepper. Stir into 
this enough gelatine to enable it to set, pour the mix- 
ture into a mould, and set it into an ice safe. When 
required, turn the cream out of the mould, sprinkle the 
top with some red pepper, garnish with water-cress, 
olives, and beetroot, and serve with plain cheese bis- 
cuits. 



Fruit Salad. 
From Mrs. H. C. Botsford. 

Two oranges, 2 apples, 1 stalk of celery (chopped 
fine), 2 bananas, some pineapple, % cupful of walnuts 
(chopped fine), 1 cupful of white grapes seeded and 
cut in two. Cut bananas long way twice and slice ; cut 
the rest of fruit fine and place on fresh lettuce leaves. 
Sprinkle nuts on the top after the dressing has been 
added. Dressing : 2 eggs, 2 level teaspoonfuls of mus- 
tard, 8 tablespoonfuls of mild vinegar, small % cup 



77 

of sugar, pinch of salt and pepper, butter size of wal- 
nut. Beat up the eggs ; mix mustard with a teaspoon- 
f ul of the vinegar ; add to the eggs. Put all together in 
double boiler and boil till creamy; when cold put on 
each plate of salad. Sufficient for twelve plates. 



Golden Ball Salad. 
From Mrs. C. H. Woolsey. 

Make a tomato jelly as follows: Put a quart of 
canned tomatoes into a saucepan and add 2 cloves, 2 
sprigs of parsley, 2 stalks of celery, 2 bay leaves, a 
small onion sliced, a blade of mace, a dash of red pep- 
per, 2 teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar, and salt to 
taste. Simmer 15 minutes and strain through a fine 
sieve, rubbing through all that will come. Pour the 
hot liquid on to ^ box of gelatine, which has been 
softening % an hour in % cupful of cold water, and 
stir until thoroughly dissolved. Add the strained juice 
of !/2 a lemon, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar 
and a little red coloring of some harmless kind. Pour 
into small individual moulds and set away to stiffen 
and chill. For the moulds little glass tumblers of a 
pretty shape are recommended. Hard boil % dozen 
eggs and mash the yolks fine with a fresh American 
cheese ; add salt and paprika to taste. Mould into little 
balls 2/3 the size of the egg yolks. Chop the whites 
of the eggs very fine. At serving time unmould the 
little glasses of jelly, and set each in the center of 
lettuce leaves closely arranged. Sprinkle the lettuce 
thickly with the chopped whites and set 4 or 5 of 
the little golden balls round the base of the jelly. 
Between put mayonnaise dressing, flavored with tar- 
ragon vinegar. 



78 

Orange and Lettuce Salad. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Select tart, juicy oranges, peel and slice, removing 
the seeds. Line the bowl with lettuce leaves, arrange 
the oranges on them (using 6 oranges), dress with a 
French dressing, using lemon juice in place of vinegar. 

Pineapple Salad. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix shredded pineapple and celery with mayonnaise, 
made without mustard and whitened with whipped 
cream. Serve in the pineapple shell cut in half length- 
ways. Sprinkle with chopped pimento. Care must be 
taken not to allow the juice of the pineapple to thin 
the mayonnaise. It ought not to be mixed until close 
on the time for serving. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Cut some cold boiled sweetbread into small dice, 
place them in a salad bowl and add a small quantity of 
celery cut into pieces. Place in the refrigerator until 
ready to serve, pour over boiled salad dressing; gar- 
nish with heart of lettuce. 

Plum Salad. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take large dark plums of equal size, carefully 
make an incision down one side and remove the stone. 
Fill the space with thick mayonnaise, made without 
mustard and whitened with whipped cream. Lay a 
bed of lettuce on a large oval glass or silver dish, 
sprinkle with French dressing, and place the prepared 
plums in a straight line down the length of the dish. 



79 
Waldorf Salad. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix 2 cupfuls of finely cut celery with 2 moderate 
sized sour apples cut into dice and half a small cupful 
of English walnuts. Sprinkle with salt and paprika. 
Mix with stiff mayonnaise, flavored with tarragon 
vinegar, and serve on lettuce. 

Walnut Salad. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Make a nest of lettuce leaves on a salad dish, arrange 
on it several pieces of orange (first cut into slices and 
then into quarters), and a few halves of English wal- 
nuts. Place on each a thin layer of mayonnaise dress- 
ing and serve. 

Cucumber Mayonnaise. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put the beaten yolk of an egg in a bowl with a very 
little salt, pepper and cayenne, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice; mix these to a cream and then add salad 
oil, a few drops at a time and well stir till thick. 
Grate a freshly peeled cucumber until there is about 3 
tablespoonfuls of it, and beat this into the mayonnaise. 
Serve with any fried or broiled fish. Do not add the 
cucumber too long before serving . 

Salad Dressing for Cold Asparagus. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put 1 ounce of butter into a saucer and let it stand 
in a warm place until it has melted. Then add 1 tea- 
spoonful of made mustard and 2 teaspoonfuls of vine- 



80 

gar, and a pinch of white pepper. Mix it all well 
together and pour it at once over the asparagus tips. 
As the sauce gets cold the butter hardens and it be- 
comes very thick. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. 
From Mrs. Eugene Creller. 

One egg, 3 rounding teaspoonfuls of sugar, 1 even 
saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, ^ tea- 
spoonful of flour moistened with water, ^ cupful of 
vinegar, 1/3 cupful of sweet milk, 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful of butter. Break the egg into bowl, beat well, 
add sugar, salt, mustard, and the moistened flour; beat 
all well, then drop the vinegar in drop by drop, beat- 
ing all the time. Add the milk and set on the fire, stir- 
ring until it begins to thicken; then add butter and 
strain. 

N. B. The dressing may be kept for some time. 

Salad Dressing. 
From Mrs. W. W. Kerr. 

One tablespoonful salt, pinch of black pepper, 10 
drops of Worcestershire sauce, 1 tablespoonful vine- 
gar, 1 tablespoonful lime juice, pinch of paprika, 2 
pimentos (chopped fine), a little chopped chives, cher- 
vils and shallots, 1 teaspoonful granulated sugar. Pour 
slowly while stirring 1 pint olive oil, % pint tomato 
catsup. Place on ice, and shake well before serving. 

Salad Dressing Cooked. 

From Mrs. F. P. Burgess. 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
1 dessertspoonful of mustard (mix all together 



81 

thoroughly), 3 eggs, % cupful of vinegar, but- 
ter size of small egg, */2 pint of cream, either 
canned or fresh. Beat the eggs steadily for 10 minutes, 
then stir into them, a little at a time, the previously 
mixed sugar, salt and mustard ; then stir in the vinegar 
in the same way; add butter, and set at once on the 
stove, stirring all the time. Cook until it thickens, 
but do not let it boil (as soon as it bubbles lift it from 
the stove) ; when thick remove from fire and beat in 
the cream. 

N. B. This will keep for a long time in a cool place. 



Salad Dressing English. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mash a cold potato and rub it through a sieve, add 
the raw yolk of an egg, a saltspoonful of salt, the same 
quantity of made mustard, and blend all well together. 
Then add gradually 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a 
little tarragon vinegar, and half a teaspoonful of an- 
chovy sauce. Stir well. It ought to be of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. 

French Dressing with Roquefort Cheese. 

From Mrs. A. R. McMichael, of New York. 

Rub the inside of a bowl with a clove of garlic. Put 
into the bowl 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, % teaspoonful of 
white pepper, and 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Stir 
well ; then add 6 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Mix thor- 
oughly. Crumble into bits enough Roquefort cheese to 
make a generous tablespoonful, beat it into the French 
dressing, and pour over crisp lettuce. Serve very cold. 



NOTES 



NOTES 




"A feast of raisins and a flow of sauce." 



Puddings and Pastries 

Christmas Pudding. 

From Miss Taylor, of Liverpool, England. 

1^4 pounds raisins (stoned and cut into 3), 1 pound 
currants, 1 pound 2 ounces suet, l 1 /^ pounds bread- 
crumbs, !/2 pound mixed peel, 6 ounces sugar, ^4 nut- 
meg, 1/2 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful 
salt, 12 eggs. Method: Mix all the dry ingredients 
together, add the liquid. Mix very well, then put into 
2-quart moulds (well greased). Boil for 8 hours. Keep 
for at least a fortnight before using, then boil for 4 
hours. 

N. B. Enough for 20 persons. 

Plum Pudding. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

One pound of raisins, 1 pound of currants, 1 pound 
of suet, i/4 pound of candied lemon peel, 4 ounces of 
bread (without crust), 1 ounce butter (spread on 
bread), 1% cupfuls of milk, made boiling hot, poured 
over bread and butter, 4 eggs, 1 pound of flour, 2 nut- 
megs, large teaspoonful of salt, % pound of brown 
sugar. Directions: Mix fruit, flour, suet, sugar, salt 
and nutmeg together. Beat bread and milk when cold 
with a fork ; beat the eggs and mix with the bread and 
milk. Pour this mixture into the other ingredients and 
mix to a dough as stiff as fruit cake ; then turn into a 
mould, placing it into a kettle of boiling water to be 
kept boiling for six hours. 



86 

Plum Pudding Without Eggs. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix together 6 ounces currants, 6 ounces raisins, ^ 
pound flour (self-raising), *4 pound sugar, *4 pound 
suet, J /4 pound mashed potatoes and l / pound mashed 
carrots; lastly, add 1 tablespoonful molasses; no other 
liquid is required. Put into a basin, leave room to 
swell. Boil 4 hours. This pudding is better mixed 
overnight. 

Steamed Graham Pudding. 
From Mrs. G. J. Wright. 

One and a half cupfuls of graham flour, 1 cupful of 
molasses, ^ cupful of butter, % cupful of sweet milk, 
1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, 1 cupful 
of raisins, 1 cupful of currants, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and cloves. 

Brown Pudding'. 
From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

One cupful of molasses, % cupful of sour milk, 1 
Q g, IVz teaspoonfuls of soda, a little salt; mix soft 
with flour ; steam for 2^ hours. Sauce : 3 eggs, 1 cup- 
ful of granulated sugar, 1 cupful of butter. Cream 
sugar and butter; add well beaten yolks and beat all 
for 5 minutes; add whites and beat for 5 minutes or 
longer; flavor to taste. 

Brown Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Four ounces stale brown bread-crumbs, 1 ounce 
ratafia biscuits, 3 ounces stoned Valencia raisins, 2 
ounces brown sugar, 1 ounce candied cherries, 1 ounce 



87 

flour, 2 ounces finely chopped suet, 2 eggs, ~y% pint milk. 
Put the crumbs into a bowl, boil the milk and pour it 
over them. Crush the biscuits with a rolling pin and 
add them to the milk and crumbs. Stir in the flour, 
suet, raisins and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, and 
mix all together. Pour the mixture into a well but- 
tered mould and steam gently for an hour. 



Excellent Pudding. 
From Mrs. E. Carlson. 

Two cupfuls bread-crumbs, ^ cupful chopped nuts, 1 
cupful raisins, l /2 cupful molasses, 2 eggs, spice to taste, 
% spoonful soda. Steam 2 hours. 

Steam Pudding. 

From Miss Eleanor Warren. 

One egg, % cupful milk, y 2 cupful raisins chopped 
fine, 14 cupful butter, 1 cupful flour, 1 tablespoonful 
sugar, iy 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Steam in cups 
1/2 hour. (Quantity is sufficient for four or five cups.) 
To be served with a liquid sauce, flavored to taste. 

Gingerbread Pudding. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

One teacupful suet, 1 teacupful flour, % teaspoonful 
ground ginger, 1 teaeupful bread-crumbs, 1 teacupful 
molasses or syrup, 1 teacupful of new milk, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Mix 
the chopped suet, flour, bread-crumbs, sugar and mo- 
lasses together, then slightly warm the milk and dis- 



88 

solve in it the carbonate of soda; add a small pinch of 
salt and mix well with the dry ingredients. Put into a 
well buttered basin and steam for 2 hours. 

N. B. The same quantity of jam or marmalade may 
be used in place of the molasses if the flavor is better 
liked. 

Fig Pudding. 

From Mrs. E. Carlson. 

One-half pound of figs, !/4 pound of grated bread, 2% 
ounces of powdered sugar, 3 ounces of butter, 2 eggs, 
1 teacupful of milk. Chop the figs small and mix first 
with the butter, then all the other ingredients by de- 
grees; butter a mould; sprinkle with bread-crumbs; 
cover it tightly ; and boil for 3 hours. 

Fig Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Chop very fine a /2 pound figs and 6 ounces beef suet ; 
mix the latter well with 12 ounces grated bread-crumbs, 
then add the figs, 6 ounces moist sugar and a little nut- 
meg; bind the whole with an egg and a gill of milk. 
Boil in a mould for quite 4 hours. 

N. B. Be sure and do not add more liquid than the 
quantity given in the recipe, or the pudding will not 
turn out firm. 

Fig Pudding. 

From Mrs. E. Williams. 

One pound of figs chopped fine (dried figs), 1 pound 
of suet, 1/2 pound of flour, % pound of bread-crumbs, 1 
teacupful of brown sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of one lemon 
chopped fine. Mix well together and boil 4 hours. 
Serve with any kind of sweet sauce. 



89 

Suet Pudding. 
From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

One cupful of chopped suet, 2 cupfuls of flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, 1 glass of fruit, milk 
enough to moisten. Steam 2 1 / hours. Serve with 
lemon sauce or hard sauce. 



Suet Pudding 1 . 
From Mrs. Catherine Slack. 

One small cupful chopped suet, 1 small cupful corn 
meal, 2 cupfuls flour, 1/2 cupful sugar, salt, cinnamon, 
raisins and currants, 1 egg, small teaspoonful soda, 
small teaspoonful cream tartar. Mix up dry and wet 
with either water or milk, leaving it as stiff as you can 
stir. Steam for 2 hours. Serve with sauce. 



Albert Pudding. 
From Mrs. E. Williams. 

One-quarter pound of butter, y pound of stoned rais- 
ins chopped fine, 2 ounces of flour, 2 ounces of bread- 
crumbs, 2 eggs, rind of 1 lemon chopped fine. Boil 4 
hours and serve with any sauce, sweet or hard. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
From Mrs. C. P. Aked. 

Ingredients: 5 ounces of bread-crumbs, 1 ounce of 
pounded almonds, 2 ounces of chocolate powder, % pint 
of new milk, 3 ounces of sugar, 3 eggs, a little vanilla 
flavoring. Method : Boil the milk with the sugar and 



90 

chocolate, and pour it over the bread-crumbs and 
almonds. When cool add the beaten yolks of eggs and 
the flavoring, and mix well. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a froth and fold them into the mixture until 
well incorporated. Put at once into a buttered mould 
and steam for an hour. Serve with any sweet sauce 
preferred. 

Raspberry Pudding Jam. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients : 4 ounces white bread-crumbs, 2 ounces 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam, 2 eggs, 4 ounces 
butter. Beat the butter and sugar together until it 
comes to a cream, add the bread-crumbs, then the 
jam, and lastly the eggs previously well beaten. Stir 
all well together and steam for 2 hours. 



Marmalade Pudding. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

One cupful of chopped suet, 2 cupfuls of flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, 1 glass marmalade, enough 
milk to make a batter. Steam 2 hours. Serve with 
any sauce desired. 

Pouding Aux Marrons. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Twenty-five chestnuts, 4 ounces castor sugar, 1 gill 
milk, glace cherries, 4 ounces butter, 4 eggs, 2 ounces 
bread-crumbs made from wholemeal bread, flavoring. 
Wipe and slit the chestnuts, put them in a stewpan 
with enough water to cover, and let them boil till ten- 



91 

der (about % of an hour) ; then drain them and put 
them on a tin in the oven to dry. Remove the shells 
and skin from the chestnuts, and pound them in a 
mortar till quite fine ; add to them the butter and half 
the milk, mix all thoroughly, and rub through a fine 
sieve. Mix the bread-crumbs with the sugar, add to it 
the remainder of the milk and the flavoring. Separate 
the yolks from the whites of eggs, beat up the former, 
and mix with all the other ingredients. Whisk the 
whites to a stiff froth, and stir gently into the mixture. 
Decorate a well-buttered, plain pudding mould with 
halves of glace cherries and strips of almonds, put the 
remainder into the above mixture. Fill up the mould, 
cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam over 
fast boiling water for about 1% hours, or bake in the 
oven for l 1 ^ hours. When done turn out onto a hot 
dish. Sauce over with vanilla custard or a suitable 
syrup, and serve hot. 



Batter Pudding. 
From Mrs. E. V. Krick. 

Take 1 egg to a person, and beat with a pinch of 
salt; add 1 tablespoonful of flour and % of a cupful 
of sweet milk to each egg ; pour in buttered baking dish 
and bake from 20 to 30 minutes in moderate oven. 
Serve with hard sauce, jelly, or cooked fruit. 

Apricot Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Pour a pint of new milk (boiling) over 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of bread-crumbs (white). Let them stand until 
cold. Then add the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and 



02 

4 ounces of sifted sugar. Beat them thoroughly, then 
add to them 12 apricots which have been pared, stoned 
and simmered gently until they have been reduced to a 
pulp. Lastly, whisk the whites of 2 eggs to a firm 
froth, and add them to the rest. Time to bake, */ 2 an 
hour in a moderate oven. 

N. B. Apricot jam may be used in place of the 
fresh fruit, in which case a tablespoonful of chopped 
almonds is an improvement. 



Belle Isles. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Bake a light, plain but rich, cake mixture in small 
fluted patty pans; when done turn out onto a shallow 
dish, and while hot pour over them some hot chocolate 
sauce. Serve at once. 



Cocoanut Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix 2 eggs well beaten with a cupful of new milk 
and the milk of the cocoanut, if it is quite sweet. Take 
off the brown skin of the nut and grate the white part 
as finely as possible. Mix it with 3 large tablespoon- 
fuls of white bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
2 ounces butter beaten to a cream, 4 ounces muscatel 
raisins stoned, and a little lemon peel sliced. Beat all 
well together, pour the mixture into a well buttered 
pie dish and bake it in a rather slow oven. This pud- 
ding may be either baked or boiled. Time to bake, 
l 1 /^ hours; to boil, 3 hours. 



93 

Five Minutes' Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. H. Woolsey. 

Two tablespoonfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 2 eggs. Whisk 
eggs well, add sugar by degrees; mix baking powder 
with flour, sift into eggs. Line with buttered paper a 
shallow baking tin, pour in mixture and bake in hot 
oven for 5 minutes. Turn out, spread with apricot or 
raspberry jam, fold up into a roll, sift a little sugar 
over and serve immediately with cream. 



Worcester Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 2 ounces flour, 2 ounces sugar, 2 ounces butter, 
2 eggs, and % pint milk. Mix the butter and flour to- 
gether with the tips of the fingers until free from 
lumps; add the sugar and eggs, then the milk very 
gradually. Bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 



Apple Charlotte. 

From Mrs. C. P. Aked. 

Line a well buttered pie dish thickly with crumbed 
graham bread, press to the sides of the dish until a 
solid wall of crumbs is formed ; then fill the center with 
hot apple sauce, rather moist and sweet, and flavored 
with lemon rind. Cover with a thick layer of crumbs 
and spread pieces of butter over. Bake until nicely 
browned, then turn out and serve hot, with cream or 
a custard sauce. 



94 

Apple Souffle Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients: 6 or 7 fine juicy apples, 1 cup of bread- 
crumbs, 4 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, nutmeg. Method: Pare, core and slice the 
apples, and stew in a covered double saucepan, without 
a drop of water, until tender. Mash to a smooth pulp, 
and while hot stir in the butter and sugar. Let it get 
cold, then whip in, first, the yolks of the eggs, then the 
whites alternately with the bread-crumbs; flavor, beat 
quickly 3 minutes, and bake in a buttered dish in a 
moderate oven. It will take about an hour to cook 
properly. Keep it covered until 10 minutes before it is 
taken out of the oven, to prevent the formation of a 
crust on the top. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix to a smooth paste a heaped tablespoonful of 
arrowroot with 2 well beaten eggs, then pour over a 
quart of boiling milk, stirring well all the time; add 
3 ounces sugar, and a little butter. When well mixed 
turn into a dish in which has been already placed a 
layer of stewed apples or any other fruit figs are ex- 
ceedingly nice. Bake at once. 

Blueberry Charlotte. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Stew a quart of blueberries with x /4 pint of water and 
a cupful of sugar until cooked. Line a well buttered 
pie dish with thick slices of stale bread buttered. Pour 
the fruit into the center and cover with more sliced 
bread and butter. Bake about % of an hour and serve 



95 

hot with cream or custard sauce. This fruit mixture 
may be poured while hot into a plain basin lined with 
thick slices of stale sponge cake, covered in the same 
way, set aside to cool, with a weight on the top, and 
when cold, turned out onto a glass dish and served with 
sugar and cream or a cold boiled custard. 

Castle Puddings. 

From Miss Taylor, of Liverpool, England. 

Ingredients: 2 eggs and their weight in sugar and 
flour ; 3 ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of orange 
flower water. Method : Put the butter into a basin and 
set it in a warm place until soft but not melted, then 
beat it to a cream with the sugar. Beat the eggs 10 
minutes; mix them slowly with the butter and sugar; 
then add the flour and flavoring. Mix thoroughly. 
Pour into 6 small buttered cups, bake them in a mod- 
erate oven about 20 minutes, then turn them out, and 
serve with sweet sauce. 

Indian Pudding Baked. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Boil a quart of milk, keeping out 1 small cupful ; mix 
this with five even tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, stir 
it into the milk, and boil for 10 minutes. Take the 
kettle from the fire, and melt into the mush 2 ounces of 
butter, or y pound if it is liked rich, stirring it well 
in. Then stir in 1 teacupful of brown sugar, 1 teacup- 
ful molasses, ^ a nutmeg (grated), 1 tablespoonful 
ground cinnamon, % teaspoonful of ground cloves ; last, 
4 eggs beaten very light. Bake 2 hours, and if the top 
browns too quickly, cover it with letter paper until the 
time is nearly up. Fruit either currants or raisins, 
or both improves this pudding very much. 



96 

Plum and Tapioca Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 3 tablespoonfuls of tapioca and put it to soak 
all night in a pint of cold water. Take 3 ounces loaf 
sugar, put it into a saucepan with y 2 pint of cold 
water, bring it to the boil and then stir it over the fire 
constantly until it has become a thick syrup; then add 
to it the tapioca which has been previously soaked and 
let them both simmer gently for 10 minutes. Add to 
them 1 pound of plums or 4 apples peeled and sliced, 
and when they have stewed together until the fruit is 
sufficiently cooked pour into a dish and serve either 
hot or cold. Or, take 3 ounces tapioca previously 
washed and soaked, boil gently in 1 pint of water till 
done, then add 1/2 pound apples stewed till tender in 
% teacupful of water; add sugar. 

San Francisco Fritters. 

From Mrs. R. Gould. 

Stamp out some small rounds from slices of bread 
about l l /2 inches in thickness ; cut out a small piece from 
the center of the croutes, dip into milk, coat with 
beaten egg, and fry until a pale golden color. Drain 
on paper before the fire. Place on each the half of a 
canned apricot, which has been made hot in a flavored 
syrup. Boil up the syrup and pour it round the dish. 
Serve hot. Cream should be handed with these frit- 
ters. 

Omelette. 

From Mrs. C. H. Savage. 

Three eggs. Beat yolks and whites separately; add 
3 teaspoonfuls of milk and a little salt. Dredge in a 
very little flour. Cook on buttered griddle and fol<l 
in dishing. 



97 

French Pancakes. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients : 2 eggs, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces of 
powdered sugar, 2 ounces of flour, ^ pint of milk. 
Method: Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, 
add gradually the well whisked eggs, then the flour, 
and lastly stir in by degrees the milk. Keep beating 
for a few minutes, then put on buttered plates and bake 
in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve hot, piled high 
on a dish with a layer of jam between each pancake. 

Pancakes English. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

For every 2 ounces of the finest flour, allow 1 egg and 
l /2 a gill of milk. Put as much flour as is required into 
a basin and mix it into a smooth batter with the eggs, 
adding the milk gradually. Take an omelette pan, 8 
inches in diameter, make it very hot with a spoonful 
of lard, pour in 2 tablespoonfuls of the batter and run 
it over the pan into quite a thin sheet ; pour in a little 
more hot lard (which should be kept in a small stew- 
pan on the stove), and this will make the pancake 
blister all over. When it is a delicate brown color, 
turn it and fry it on the other side. Lift the pancake 
carefully onto a hot plate, and sift sugar over it, and 
roll it up at once. 

Pancakes a la Royale. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Proceed as in recipe for "Pancakes English," but 
before rolling the pancake spread it rapidly with a 
spoonful of apricot jam and a spoonful of frangipane, 



98 

which is made in the following manner : Mix 2 ounces 
of flour with 2 yolks and 1 whole egg, 2 ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and 1^2 gills of milk ; stir the mixture over 
the fire until it is on the point of boiling, when remove 
at once. Dissolve 1 ounce of butter in a stewpan, and 
when it is just turning brown add the custard, stir it 
thoroughly and flavor it with a little vanilla essence. 

Puff Paste. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

One-quarter pound flour, y pound butter, the yolk 
of 1 egg, 6 drops of lemon juice and y% gill of c ld 
water. Rub the flour through a sieve, then place the 
butter in the corner of a towel and press out all the 
water. Beat in a basin the yolk of egg, lemon juice, 
and water all together. Mix with the flour into a very 
dry dough, knead firmly and roll out thinly. Place in 
the center of the dough the butter ; fold over the butter 
and roll out again as thinly as possible; fold in three 
and put on one side for 15 minutes. Then flour the 
board and roll again, fold in three and roll out a fourth 
time ; do this again and put on one side for another 15 
minutes, then roll out twice in the same way and again 
put on one side for 15 minutes. Flour the board, roll 
out the paste, folding in three, and it is ready to use. 
N. B. The more thinly it is rolled the lighter it 
will be. 

Bakewell Tart. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Line a plate with puff paste and spread a layer of 
jam over. Put in a basin the yolks of 3 eggs and 3 
ounces powdered sugar; beat them well together, then 
melt in a saucepan l 1 /^ ounces of butter (be sure and do 



99 

not let it brown), pour it into the basin and mix to- 
gether, then pour the whole mixture over the jam, 
sprinkle with the juice of % a lemon and bake in a hot 
oven for 25 minutes. If desirable, the white of the egg 
may be well beaten and placed on the top of the 
pudding. 

Golden West Tartlets. 

From Mrs. D. C. Farnham. 

Seed some white California grapes, and put */2 dozen 
or more of them into little pastry shells baked in small 
patty pans. Make a syrup of half a cupful of sugar 
with a tablespoonful of water and boil till it threads. 
When this has slightly cooled, pour enough of it over 
each patty shell to coat the grapes. As this cools the 
grapes are glaced. 

Lemon Pie. 

From Miss Sallie Carmany. 

Three lemons, 4 eggs, 12 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls water (cold), 3 tablespoonfuls 
melted butter. Beat the yolks and sugar together, then 
add the water and grated rind and juice. The last 
thing before putting it in the oven add the butter. 
After the pie is baked, beat the whites of the eggs to 
a froth (stiff), and spread over and set in the oven a 
few moments to brown. 

Lemon Pie. 

From Mrs. S. F. Mayer. 

To the juice and grated peel of 2 lemons, add yolks of 
4 eggs (not beaten), and 8 tablespoonfuls of light brown 
sugar. Mix well, and bake without an upper crust. To 
the 4 whites, beaten to a stiff froth, add 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of pulverized sugar; beat well and spread on the 



100 

baked pie while hot; return to oven and slightly brown. 
This makes one large pie. 

Lemon Fie. 

From Mrs. Philip Rice. 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten together; 1 cup 
sugar, juice of 2 lemons, rind of 1 lemon, ^ cupful 
milk. Bake in a slow oven. 

Maids of Honour. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take a cupful each of sour milk, sweet milk, and 
sugar ; a lemon, the yolks of 4 eggs and a pinch of salt. 
Put all the milk in a double saucepan and cook until it 
curds; then strain. Rub the curd through a wire sieve. 
Beat the sugar and yolks of eggs together, then add the 
grated rind and the juice of the lemon and mix all with 
the curd. A few currants added are an improvement. 
Line little patty pans with pastry rolled thin; fill with 
the mixture and bake in a moderate oven. 

Orange Pie. 
From Mrs. W. H. Matson. 

Pulp and juice of oranges two, 
One big spoon of corn-starch true; 
Eggs, two yolks, all well stirred up, 
Sugar and water of each a cup ; 
Pinch of salt ; now mix and look : 
Do not burn, but let it cook. 
Bake the crust, and mixture pour, 
Spread whipped eggs and sugar o 'er ; 
Set in the stove till brown and bold, 
Put away to be eaten cold. 



101 

Pumpkin Pie. 

From Mrs. G. J. Wright. 

One and a half cnpfuls of canned pumpkin, l /2 cup- 
ful of sugar, 1 cupful of milk, 2 eggs slightly beaten, 
1 cupful of rich milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, % tablespoonful of 
ginger, ^ teaspoonful of cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful of 
mace, 1 teaspoonful of salt. Pour into a pastry lined 
pie-plate and bake % an hour. 



Rhubarb Pie. 
From Mrs. W. T. Reid. 

One cupful finely chopped rhubarb, 1 cupful sugar, 
y 2 cupful boiling water into which stir a scant table- 
spoonful of corn-starch and the yolks of 2 eggs, re- 
serving the whites for frosting. Bake the mixture as 
for lemon pie with no upper crust. 



Spanish Cakes. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put 2 ounces butter into a stewpan and when dis- 
solved rub in smoothly 5 ounces of flour, then add % 
pint of cold water. Stir over the fire until the mixture 
leaves the sides of the pan quite clear and looks like a 
soft compact paste, then take off the fire and add 2 
ounces of powdered sugar and 3 eggs, one at a time. 
Butter a tin and lay the pastry on it in small balls the 
size of an egg. Dust with sugar and bake in a slow 
oven for an hour. When finished they should be quite 
crisp and hard. 



102 
Squash Pie. 

From Mrs. W. T. Reid. 

One large pint of strained Hubbard squash. Into 
this stir 1 teaspoonful each of salt and cinnamon, then 
2 soda crackers, pounded and sifted, and 1% cupfuls of 
sugar. Have ready 1 quart of boiled milk in which an 
even tablespoonful of butter has been dissolved slowly, 
and stir till smooth. Lastly add 3 well beaten eggs and 
a few drops of lemon essence. Bake in 2 deep pie- 
plates lined with crust. 



Welsh Cheese Cakes. 

From Mrs. C. H. Woolsey. 

Weight of 1 egg in butter, sugar, and flour. Beat 
butter and sugar to a cream, add flour and egg by 
degrees. Thoroughly beat; add flavoring and 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Line some small indi- 
vidual tins with pastry; spread with a small teaspoon- 
ful of jam, add a teaspoonful of the mixture with a few 
chopped almonds on top. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven for % or % of an hour. 



N O T MS S 



rolyo fears ipr fat* ton murlf, finite 
mill fail." 



Ices and Light Desserts 



Bisque Tortoni. 

From Mrs. G. J. Wright. 

Boil together 20 minutes 1^ cupfuls of sugar and 
11/2 cupfuls of water. Pour the hot syrup on the beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs, and let it stand until cold. Then add 
the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs and 1 pint of whipped 
cream. Flavor to taste with vanilla. Pour into a 
melon mould and pack in ice and salt for 3 or 4 hours. 
When serving sprinkle dried and rolled macaroons 
over the form. 



Frozen Pudding. 

From Mrs. C. F. Holman. 

One cupful maple syrup, yolks of 2 eggs; beat yolks 
and stir into syrup; place in double boiler and cook a 
few minutes until perfectly smooth; set away to cool. 
Take 1 pint of whipping cream, whip until stiff, add to 
the mixture and stir thoroughly; add % cup chopped 
walnuts and a little citron cut fine. Mix all together 
thoroughly, put into a melon mould (or pudding 
mould), and pack in finely chopped ice and rock salt. 
Let it freeze for 3 hours. When ready to serve pour a 
little warm water over the mould and turn onto ice 
cream plate. 



106 

Lemon Water Ice. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Four nice juicy lemons, 1 orange, 1 quart of water, 
l*/4 pounds of sugar. Put the sugar and water on to 
boil; chip the yellow rind from 2 lemons and the 
orange; add to the syrup; boil 5 minutes and stand 
away to cool. Peel the orange and lemons, cut in 
halves, take out the seeds, and squeeze out all the juice. 
Mix this with the syrup, strain through a cloth, turn 
into freezer and freeze. This quantity will serve six 
persons. 

Neapolitan Mousse. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Soak y of a box of gelatine for i/ 2 hour in 14 cupful 
of cold water. Whip 1 pint of cream. Dissolve the 
gelatine over hot water. Cut *4 pound of candied cher- 
ries and the same of blanched almonds into small 
pieces. Turn the cream into basin; add the gelatine. 
2/3 of a cupful of powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla, and the fruit and nuts. Stir carefully from 
the bottom towards the top until it begins to stiffen. 
Turn into an ice cream mould previously wet with cold 
water. Cover with a piece of greased writing paper, 
turn greased side up, and fit the cover of the mould 
on tightly. Pack in salt and ice and let it stand an 
hour or more. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

One pint whipping cream, 12 macaroons, 24 glace 
cherries, 1 slice pineapple, 1 white of egg, 2 heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, l / 2 cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful 



107 

vanilla. Melt milk and sugar together, then cool with 
cream that has been whipped; chop fruit and maca- 
roons ; stir in last the egg and vanilla. Pack in mould 
with salt and ice, first covering mould with wax paper. 



Omelette Souffle en Surprise. 

From the Chef of the Sanatorium Schatzalp, 

Davos, Switzerland. 

Whisk over hot water 10 eggs, add 1/2 pound sugar, 
and beat until cold; then lightly mix in a % pound of 
Hour and fill into an oval sponge mould and bake in 
a moderate oven. When cold slice the cake through 
once and sprinkle both slices with flavored syrup ; then 
place ice cream between the layers, being careful not 
to have the ice cream come too near the edge. Beat 
up the whites of 8 eggs very stiffly and add 1 pound 
of sugar, and with this cover the whole of the omelette. 
Pipe some design on top and bake the omelette in a 
very sharp oven, but only long enough to get a nice 
crust all over. Before baking dust the whole omelette 
with custard sugar. 



White Ice Cream. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Whites of 6 eggs, 1 cupful of powdered sugar, 1 pint 
cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water. Break 
the whites -of the eggs, but do not beat them to a froth ; 
stir into them the cupful of powdered sugar and then 
add the cream. Place in a double boiler, and stir 
until it is scalded, but do not let it boil ; remove from 
the fire and stir until it is cold, to make it light. When 
it is cold add flavoring, and freeze. When it is frozen 



108 

remove the dasher, stir in the Italian meringue, turn 
it into a mould, and pack in ice and salt for 2 or 3 
hours. This cream requires a little longer to freeze 
than the other creams. The Italian meringue is made 
of the whites of 2 eggs and 1 tablespoonful of hot 
syrup. 

Apricot Cream. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take a tin of apricots, and put them with 4 ounces 
of sugar, the juice of % a lemon, and a little of the 
syrup into a lined saucepan. Cook them until quite 
tender, then rub through a fine sieve. Soak % of an 
ounce of gelatine in % of a pint of milk for 5 minutes, 
and then heat the milk until the gelatine is quite dis- 
solved. Beat and strain 3 eggs, add them to the hot 
milk, stir over the fire, with great care, until it has 
thickened for custard, then mix it with the apricots, 
rub the mixture through a sieve, and set it aside until 
it is lukewarm. Then whip *4 of a pint of cream to 
a stiff froth, add the custard by degrees, and continue 
beating until they are well mixed. Pour into a mould, 
and set in a cool place until it is firm enough to turn 
out. 

Caramel Cream. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients: % pint milk, 2 eggs, % pint cream, 2 
ounces powdered sugar, ^ ounce gelatine. Method : put 
the sugar into a saucepan with 1/2 a tablespoonful of 
water. Let it melt and commence to color. Stir until 
it becomes a rich dark brown (but not black or it will 
be spoilt). Pour in the milk, let the sugar dissolve 
again, and boil up. Then add very gradually the eggs 



109 

well beaten. Return to the pan and cook like a cus- 
tard if it boils it will curdle. Add a tablespoonful of 
sugar and the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little 
water. Strain and allow it to get cool but not to 
stiffen, then add the cream whipped. Pour into an 
oiled mould. Or if liked the mould may be decorated 
first, in this way: Rinse with cold water, pour in a 
little lemon jelly. When set lay in a decoration of 
pistachio nuts, and set with more jelly. 

Caramel Custard. 

From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Put on y 2 a cupful of granulated sugar into a gran- 
ite saucepan, stir constantly until it melts and slightly 
browns. Have ready beaten the yolks of 4 eggs. Add 
1 pint of milk to the melted sugar and mix well until 
hot and all the sugar is dissolved. Add a tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar to the yolks, pour the hot milk over 
them, stirring all the time; put into a "Bain Marie" 
and stir with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken. 
Take off the fire and pour into individual custard cups 
or into a large dish. 

N. B. Must be eaten cold. 

Chocolate Cream. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 1^2 ounces of grated chocolate, 2 ounces of 
sugar, l l / 2 gills of milk, % ounce of gelatine, and the 
yolks of 3 eggs. Beat the yolks of the eggs well, put 
them into a basin with the grated chocolate, the sugar, 
and the milk; stir all together, pour into a jar, set jar 
in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir all one way 
till the mixture thickens, taking care it does not curdle. 
Strain all into a basin, stir in the dissolved gelatine. 



110 

and when cool but not stiff, add 1% gills of well 
whipped cream. Pour into an oiled mould. 



Coffee Cream. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Make some strong coffee, 14 of a pound to 1 teaeup- 
ful of water, put into a basin with 2 yolks of eggs and 
1 ounce of sugar, and put the basin into a saucepan 
of boiling water; add 1 ounce of dissolved gelatine 
and stir over the fire till the mixture thickens, then 
let it get cold. Whip up a pint of good cream quite 
stiff and add the coffee to it by degrees, so that it is 
quite smooth and thick. Then either put it as it is into 
Nuremberg glasses or put it into a mould and place 
on ice for 3 hours, then turn out. When moulded and 
turned out, a few of the very small silver chocolate 
bonbons dotted about look very effective. 

N. B. It is easier and more satisfactory to use 
essence of coffee for coffee cream. 



Coffee Frappe 

From Mrs. G. J. Wright. 

Five tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 1 cupful of 
clear strong coffee, 1 pint of whipped cream. Stir all 
together carefully, pour into a melon mould, and pack 
in ice and salt for 3 or 4 hours. 



Custard for Meringue. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put into a stewpan 1 ounce fine flour, 1 raw yolk 
of egg, 2 ounces butter, 1 ounce castor sugar, 1^2 gills 



Ill 

of cold milk; stir these over the fire till the mixture 
boils, then flavor with a few drops of vanilla essence, 
and mix into it 1 tablespoonful of whipped cream and 
use. 

Meringue Mixture. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put the whites of 4 fresh eggs in a bowl and whip 
till quite stiff with a pinch of salt, then mix in quickly 
!/2 pound of castor sugar with a wooden spoon, and 
use as desired. 

Farina Souffle Cold. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take a pint of milk, sweeten; when boiling stir in 
*2 ounces of farina and cook for 10 minutes, stirring all 
the time. Then take off the fire and add % ounce of 
gelatine dissolved in a gill of milk. Stir well, and 
flavor to taste. Whip */ pint of double cream till 
\ery stiff, mix into the farina lightly, and pour into 
a mould. 

Genoa Cream. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take 1 pint of milk, % pound of stale macaroons, 
1 ounce of gelatine, 4 ounces of sugar, 8 yolks of eggs, 
y>2 pint, of whipped cream, and a few chopped candied 
fruits. Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk, boil 
the rest and add to it the yolks of eggs, macaroons 
(crushed), and sugar. Stir it on the fire until it begins 
to thicken. Take it off the fire and add the soaked 
gelatine. Strain it through a hair sieve and when 
nearly cold add the whipped cream and candied 



112 

fruits. Put into a mould ready to turn out when 
required. 

This recipe was given to me by Mrs. Henry Ward 
Beecher. 

Ginger Pudding. 

From Mrs. John Hazlett. 

One-half box gelatine, % CU P of cold water, 1 cup of 
boiling water, % cup of sugar, 1% cups of heavy 
cream, whites of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
preserved ginger. Soak the gelatine in the cold water 
for 10 minutes; add the hot water and sugar; when 
dissolved strain and set aside to cool. Beat the cream 
and the whites of the eggs together until stiff. Add 
the ginger and gelatine. Beat all together and pour 
into mould to set. Serve with whipped cream. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

"Top and tail" the green gooseberries, well wash 
them, put them into a jar with some moist sugar and 
2 tablespoonfuls of water; place the covered jar in a 
saucepan of boiling water and let it boil till the fruit 
is soft enough to be beaten to pulp and rubbed through 
a sieve. Sweeten plentifully, then gradually add an 
equal quantity of cream. Serve in a glass dish or 
junket bowl, or, if preferred, in custard cups with a 
little whipped cream on each. 

Gooseberry Fool Rich. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients: 1 quart of gooseberries (ripe), 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, 1 teacupful of sugar, 4 eggs. 



113 

Method : Stew the gooseberries in barely enough water 
to cover them, and when soft and broken, rub them 
through a sieve. While still hot, stir well in the butter, 
sugar, and whipped yolks of the eggs. Pile in a glass 
dish, and heap on the top a meringue of the whipped 
whites, well sweetened, or whipped cream if preferred. 



Lemon Cream. 
Prom Mrs. Philip Rice. 

Five eggs, whites and yolks beaten together; 1 cup- 
ful sugar, 1 cupful water, juice of 2 lemons, rind of 1 
lemon. Cook in double boiler. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Lemon Souffle. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put a gill and a half of milk on in a double sauce- 
pan; when it is hot add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten, 
stir until it thickens, then take it off the fire and add 
to it the third of an ounce of gelatine previously soaked 
in % gill cold milk ; continue stirring till it is cool, then 
add 2 l /2 ounces sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, 
1 ounce pistachio nuts chopped fine and the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix thoroughly and 
pour into an oiled mould, which has been sprinkled with 
some of the chopped pistachio nuts. Place it in a very 
cold place to set. 

N. B. An ounce of grated chocolate beaten up with 
the yolks of eggs will change this into a Chocolate Souf- 
fle. The lemon and half the sugar must then be 
omitted. 



114 

Marshmallow Pudding. 

From Mrs. J. Green. 

The whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff ; 1 cupful of sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in i/i> cupful of 
hot water. When the gelatine is dissolved beat the 
sugar and eggs into it ; flavor to taste ; beat 20 minutes 
and set away on ice. It may be colored pink, using 
1/3 of a pink tablet. For the sauce, make a custard of 
the yolks with 1 cupful of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. 

Orange Cream. 
From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put % pound of lump sugar and l /^ pint of water 
into a small saucepan and boil till the sugar becomes 
brittle. Peel 4 or 5 oranges, remove as much as pos- 
sible of the white skin; divide them into their natural 
sections and take out the pits, then dip each section into 
the syrup, holding them on the point of a skewer. Oil 
a plain mould and arrange the pieces of orange at the 
bottom and sides closely together. When firm turn 
out carefully and fill up the center with whipped 
cream flavored to taste. 

Orange Mousse. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take the grated rinds of 2 sound, well-washed or- 
anges and the strained juice of 3, add 3 tablespoonfuls 
of castor sugar and the yolks of 3 eggs. Whip together 
over the fire until the mixture nearly boils (if it boils it 
will curdle), and then strain into a basin. Dissolve 
5 sheets of white leaf gelatine in 2 tablespoonfuls of hot 
water, and when cool add to the mixture, and be sure 



115 

the gelatine is quite dissolved and not lumpy. Whisk 
the whites of 3 eggs and */ tumblerful of cream, add 
and whisk all the ingredients together lightly. Have 
ready a souffle dish with a paper tied round. Fill so 
that the mixture comes quite 1 inch above the china 
dish. Remove the paper before serving, pipe with 
whipped cream and decorate with chopped pistachio 
nuts. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

From Miss M. E. Chambers. 

Two and three-quarter cupfuls of scalded milk, !/4 
cupful of cold milk, 1/3 cupful of corn-starch, 14 cupful 
of sugar, !/4 teaspoonful of salt, l /2 can grated 
pineapple, whites of 3 eggs. Mix corn-starch, sugar and 
salt; dilute with cold milk; add to scalded milk, stir- 
ring constantly until mixture thickens, afterwards occa- 
sionally; cook 15 minutes. Add whites of eggs beaten 
stiff, mix thoroughly. Add pineapple just before mould* 
ing. Fill individual moulds, previously dipped in cold 
water. Serve with cream. To be eaten cold. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

From Mrs. W. H. Matson. 

One can of pineapple, dice it ; dissolve 1 tablespoonful 
of gelatine in % cupful of water, add to pineapple and 
juice, and bring to boiling point ; set aside to become 
firm ; when time to serve take from mould, cut up into 
bits, and mix with ! /2 pint of cream well whipped. 

Prosperity Dessert. 

From Mrs. E. Carlson. 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs, quite slightly ; add 2/3 cupful of 
sugar, 1 lemon, grated, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice ; 



116 

add a little salt and 1 teaspoonful of gelatine dissolved 
in mixture. Cook in double boiler until mixture thick- 
ens, stirring constantly. Then strain and add the 
whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff; and when well mixed set 
in pan of ice water, stirring occasionally. Beat 2/3 of 
a cupful of heavy cream stiff, add to first mixture ; put 
in individual glasses, and sprinkle top with powdered 
macaroons. 

Pistachio Cream. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Whip a pint of thick cream till it is stiff ; add to it *4 
pound of pounded blanched pistachio kernels, */4 pound 
of powdered sugar, and ^2 ounce of gelatine dissolved 
in a gill of water. When all the ingredients are mixed, 
add a little green coloring, but be sure to mix it thor- 
oughly. Then pour the cream into a mould and set on 
ice until firm. 

Raisin Mould. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients : 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch, a little sugar, some candied fruit, y 
pound of Sultana raisins. Method: Stew the raisins 
gentty in a little sweetened water for an hour. Bring 
the milk to boiling point, stir in the corn-starch blended 
with a spoonful or two of cold milk, and the raisins 
strained ; allow it to simmer for 10 minutes, stirring all 
the time ; then add the sugar, the beaten eggs, and the 
candied fruit, cut into small pieces. Beat all well until 
perfectly smooth, and pour into a shape. Turn out 
when set, and serve with red currant sauce or choco- 
late sauce. 



117 
Rice Imperial. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Wash 3 ounces of Carolina rice, put into a dish with 
iy 2 ounces of sugar and 1% pints of milk. Let it soak 
for an hour, then bake in a slow oven for 2 or 3 hours, 
taking care it does not acquire a brownish tinge. Re- 
move the skin and stir into it % ounce of gelatine, pre- 
viously dissolved in % P* n t f milk ; add 1 teaspoonf ul 
of vanilla, and 2 ounces mixed preserved fruits cut into 
dice. When quite cool but not set stir gently in % pint 
of whipped cream. Pour into an oiled mould. 



Strawberry Cream. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Stalk some strawberries, enough to produce % pint, 
sprinkle over them 3 ounces of powdered sugar; let 
them stand until the sugar is dissolved, then rub 
through a sieve ; dissolve % ounce of gelatine in a little 
warm water and the juice of half a lemon. Whip % 
pint of cream, mix it with the pulped fruit, and strain 
the gelatine onto this. Have ready a wetted mould, or 
better still, one lined with jelly, garnished with a few 
halved strawberries, pour in the mixture and leave on 
ice till set. 

Velvet Cream. 

From Mrs. J. Nash. 

Whites of 5 eggs, 2 lemons (rind and juice), 1 cupful 
gelatine, 2 cupfuls sugar, 2 cupfuls cream. Take 2 



118 

custard boilers. Melt the gelatine in a little cold water ; 
grate the rind of the lemons and add the grated rind 
and the juice to the gelatine, also the sugar, in the first 
custard boiler. When this is all nicely melted by 
placing the custard boiler in its own dish of boiling 
water over the fire, take the second boiler (which 
should contain the cream which has been heated) ; 
strain the contents of the first into it, adding the beaten 
whites. Pour into a mould and set it away to cool : turn 
into a dish for the table. Serve with cream sauce. 



NOTES 



NOTES 



'^CANDIES 




A stir in time saves candies fine." 



Chocolate Caramels. 

From Mrs. Brockway. 

One-quarter pound Baker's chocolate, 1 cupful mo- 
lasses, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful milk, 1 teaspoonf ul flour, 
1 teaspoonful butter. Place sugar, molasses and milk 
in a saucepan over the fire and when warm add the 
grated chocolate and boil 15 minutes. Then add flour 
and butter and boil % of an hour longer, or until thick. 
Pour into tin pans *4 inch thick. When partly cold 
mark off into squares. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

From Miss Sallie Carmany. 

Boil together for 20 minutes 1 cupful molasses, 1 cup- 
ful sugar, 1 cupful chocolate, */2 cupful milk. When 



122 

nearly done add a piece of butter size of an egg; 
flavor with vanilla. Try in water. Stir a few minutes 
and pour on buttered dishes. When not quite cold 
mark the candy in little squares with the back of a 
knife. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Take a portion of the fondant (see recipe for "Pond- 
ant") and place in double boiler. Care must be taken 
that it does not melt, only soften; then stir in some 
shredded cocoanut with a little lemon or vanilla flavor- 
ing, and when thoroughly mixed drop on wax or but- 
tered paper, saving a small portion to be colored with 
a few drops of fruit coloring. This is to be dropped in 
small quantities on top of the plain ones. When cold 
remove the paper and pack in tin boxes. 

Delight. 

From Mrs. Maginnis. 

Ingredients: 2 cupfuls brown sugar, % cupful milk 
and cream mixed, % cupful chopped walnuts and 
almonds. Va cupful cut figs and dates, a large piece of 
butter, V 2 tablespoonful vanilla. Method: Boil to- 
gether sugar, milk and butter till it makes a soft ball. 
Beat until creamy, then add nuts, figs and dates. Stir 
in vanilla and pour on buttered plates to cool. 

Divinity Creams. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Three cupfuls granulated sugar, % cupful Karo 
corn syrup, ^2 cupful water; whites of 3 eggs, 1 
cupful chopped nuts. Boil sugar, syrup and water to 



123 

the point when it will form a soft ball when dropped 
in cold water. Take out one cupful and stir into the 
beaten whites of eggs. Boil the rest of the syrup until 
it is brittle when dropped in cold water; then mix 
with the whites and beat and beat and beat. Add nuts 
and flavoring (lemon or vanilla). Drop on buttered or 
wax paper or in buttered pan and cut. 

Divinity Creams. 
From Mrs. Waldo Coleman. 

2-2/3 cupfuls of granulated sugar, 2/3 cupful of Karo 
corn syrup, l / 2 cupful of cold water. Mix all together 
and boil until the mixture cracks in water when tested. 
Let mixture stand a minute or two ; then pour over the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Beat all until quite 
stiff, but not too stiff to pour. Add 1 cupful of broken 
walnut meats and pour into buttered platter to cool. 
Flavor if desired with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Fondant. 

(The foundation of nearly all cream candies.) 
From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Four cupfuls granulated sugar, 1 cupful water; put 
in a granite kettle and stir until dissolved. Place over 
fire and boil without stirring for about six minutes. 
Dip fork into syrup and try, by holding up fork and 
watching if it spins a thread. Test it still further by 
dropping a little in cold water, and as soon as it will 
form a soft ball, remove from fire and let stand until 
blood-warm, then stir with a wooden spoon or paddle 
until it begins to crumble. Work fast and hard until 
it is a smooth white mass; then it must be kneaded 



124 

with the hands like dough until it is perfectly smooth 
and creamy and shiny. Pack in bowl and cover with 
a thin damp cloth and set away in a cool place until 
needed. 

Fudge. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Three cupfuls brown sugar, 1 ctfpful granulated 
sugar, 1 cupful milk, piece of butter size of walnut, 
2 even tablespoonfuls of chocolate or breakfast cocoa, 
juice of half a lemon; stir well and boil for about 10 
minutes. Be very careful that it does not burn. The 
stirring is quite important. When it will form a soft 
ball when dropped in cold water, remove from fire and 
stir or beat until it begins to thicken ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of vanilla and pour into buttered tins. When cool 
cut in squares and when cold pack in tin box. 

Fudge. 

Prom Miss Augusta Gibbs Foute. 

Mix 2 cupfuls of sugar, 1 cupful of cream, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of chocolate, and boil until mixture hardens 
when dropped into cold water; when done add 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and butter the size of a walnut. 
Pour into a buttered pan to cool. 

Marshniallows. 

From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Six tablespoonfuls water, 2 cupfuls sugar. Soak 2 
tablespoonfuls gelatine in 6 tablespoonfuls of water, 
pinch of salt. Heat sugar and 6 tablespoonfuls of 
water until dissolved ; let it just come to the boil ; add 



125 

gelatine and beat all together 10 minutes. Add tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and the well beaten white of one 
egg, and beat 10 minutes more, or until soft enough to 
settle in sheet. Have granite pans thickly dusted with 
confectioner's sugar and corn-starch (half and half) ; 
pour in the candy about half an inch deep, and when 
thoroughly cold cut in cubes and roll in confectioner's 
sugar. 

Marshmallows. 

From Mrs. J. J. Miller. 

Dissolve 1 box of Knox's gelatine in 12 tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water. Boil 4 cups of granulated sugar in 
16 tablespoonfuls of cold water until it will form a 
ball when tested in cold water ; beat this syrup into the 
gelatine slowly until cold. Roll in powdered sugar, and 
cut into squares. 

Opera Creams. 
From Mrs. William Hazlett. 

One cupful milk, 4 cupfuls sugar, % teaspoonful salt, 
chocolate to suit taste, vanilla. Boil till it will form 
in water. Beat and drop by the spoonful on buttered 
plate. 

Panoche. 

From Mrs. Myers. 

Put over the fire in a saucepan, 1 pound of brown 
sugar with 1 cupful of cream and boil to the stage 
when dropped into cold water it makes a soft but 
firm ball in the fingers. Take from the fire and stir 
in a cupful of chopped English walnuts, hickory nuts 



126 

or pecans, and stir again a few minutes; then turn 
out upon a buttered shallow pan and when cool cut 
into squares with a sharp knife. 



Panoche. 

From Miss Augusta Gibbs Foute. 

Mix 2*/2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 cupful cream, but- 
ter the size of a walnut; boil until candy can be made 
into a ball when tested. Add 1 cupful of walnuts finely 
broken; beat until thick and pour out into a buttered 
pan to cool. If milk is used more butter is necessary. 
A teaspoonful of unsweetened chocolate may be added. 



Peppermint Drops. 
From Mrs. J. H. Barnard. 

Two cupfuls granulated sugar, % cupful of water; 
boil without stirring for 5 minutes; remove from stove 
and add % teaspoonful essence of peppermint. Beat 
for a few minutes, then drop on buttered paper just 
enough to form small round peppermints. 



Vanilla Caramels. 
From Miss Sallie Carmany. 

Two cupfuls white sugar, 2/3 of a cupful sweet milk ; 
fill up with butter not melted; 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
Stir until it begins to boil and not again. Boil 25 
minutes or until it turns light brown. Pour on but-, 
tered tins, and when slightly cool mark off in squares 
with a sharp knife. 



NOTES 




" There's many a slip 'twixt cook and lip." 



CAKES 



Spice Cakes. 

From Mrs. E. Carlson. 

Four eggs, % cupful butter, 2 scant cupfuls sugar, 
i/4 cupful molasses, 1% cupfuls milk, 3 cupfuls flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, l / 2 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, % teaspoonful cloves, *4 teaspoonful allspice, ^ 
teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Spice Cake. 
From Mrs. William Hazlett. 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar and 2/3 cupful butter 
(scant) creamed together, 1 cupful sour milk, 2 eggs 
(separated and well beaten), 2 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful 
raisins (chopped and rolled in flour), y% teaspoonful 
cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful soda 
(dissolved in milk). 

Spice Cake. 
From Mrs. I. F. Littlefield. 

One cupful dark brown sugar, 1 cupful butter, 1 
cupful New Orleans molasses, 1 cupful very strong 
coffee, 3% cupfuls sifted flour, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
1/2 grated nutmeg, l /2 teaspoonful ground cloves, 1 level 
teaspoonful soda sifted in molasses, 3 eggs. Cream 
butter and sugar, and add coffee and spices ; beat yolks 
and whites of eggs separately; then add yolks to the 



130 

other ingredients, with molasses and soda; then the 
flour and whites of eggs last. Beat all thoroughly and 
bake in two pans in moderate oven for y 2 hour. 

Spice Cake. 

From Mrs. C. W. Slack. 

Four eggs, 2 eupfuls sugar (one white and one 
brown), 3 eupfuls flour, 1^ teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 
teaspoonful allspice, 2 bars of chocolate. Chop citron 
and almonds and stir part into the mixture and drop 
the rest on top. Drop with a teaspoon on buttered 
tins. 

Simnel Cake. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

One-half pound butter, % pound brown sugar, 6 
eggs, 1/2 pound currants, ^ pound raisins, % pound 
mixed peel, a few candied cherries, y 2 pound flour, % 
teaspoonful pounded ammonia. Put the powdered am- 
monia into the butter and beat it with the sugar to 
a cream. Beat the eggs well and add them by degrees 
so as not to curdle them ; put in fruits and lastly the 
flour. Put half into a well-lined round cake tin, then 
put in a flat round cake of almond paste as described 
below, and then the rest of the cake mixture on top. 
Bake gently about 3 hours. When cool, remove the 
papers, trim the top quite flat lnd lay on the other half 
cake of almond paste, having rolled it and moulded it 
exactly to fit the top of the cake. Bake the remains 
of the almond paste into even-sized balls, and place all 
round the cake. Put half a cherry on top of each. It 
needs no further cooking. 

For the Almond Paste : 1 pound ground almonds, ^ 



131 

pound powdered sugar, V& pound icing sugar, vanilla 
essence, almond essence, the juice of % lemon (or more 
if liked). Either pound together in the mortar, or if 
not convenient mix together with the hand thoroughly, 
adding either 1 or 2 fresh eggs well beaten as needed 
to mix all to a moist but firm paste. It needs no cook- 
ing. Use as directed above, rolling out with pastry pin 
to the size of the cake, and making the edge round with 
a knife. 

Lincoln Cake. 

From Mrs. J. Nash. 

Six eggs, 1 pound flour, % pound butter, 1 pound 
sugar, 2 cupfuls sour cream, 1 teaspoonful soda (stirred 
in cream), 1 tablespoonful rose water, grated rind of 
1 lemon, y 2 pound seeded raisins. Beat eggs separately 
and put ingredients together as usual. Bake in loaf or 
card. 

Potato Cake. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

One cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 2 cupfuls flour, 
i/2 cupful milk, 1 cupful mashed potatoes (cold and un- 
seasoned) 1 cupful raisins, 1 cupful chopped walnuts, 
1 cupful grated chocolate (or 4 sticks), 4 eggs beaten 
separately, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful nut- 
meg. If baked in sheet, bake 1 hour to l 1 /^ hours. If 
in loaf, bake 2% hours to 3 hours. 

Tumbler Cake. 

Miss S. J. Chambers. 

One tumblerful raisins, 1 tumblerful sugar, 1 tumbler- 
ful molasses, 1 tumblerful eggs, 1 tumblerful butter, 



132 

spices, 1 spoonful soda and % teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. Dissolve the soda in water and put the cream 
of tartar in the flour. Add flour enough to make a very 
stiff batter. Bake slowly like fruit cake. 

Washington Cake. 

From Mrs. J. Nash. 

Three cupfuls sugar, 2 cupfuls butter, 5 eggs, 1 cup- 
ful milk, 4 cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar, 1 teaspoonful soda, % pound currants, *4 pound 
seeded raisins, grated rind of 1 lemon, a handful of 
citron (cut fine), cinnamon to taste, nutmeg to taste. 

Pound Cake. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

One dozen eggs, 1 pound flour, 1 pound butter. 1 
pound sugar. Work butter and sugar to a cream ; beat 
eggs well and add to sugar and butter; add flour. Do 
not beat mixture but slightly after putting it in. Bake 
at least 1 hour. 

Lightning Cake. 

From Mrs. C. F. Holman. 

Put into a cup 2 eggs (unbeaten), 4 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter (not hot), and fill the rest of cup with 
milk ; then pour into a 2-quar.t bowl, first adding a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Put into a sifter 1 cupful of flour, 
1 cupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder; 
sift these into the bowl and stir all together rapidly and 
for about 5 minutes. Bake in 2 layer tins, or in loaf, 
or muffin rings. 

N. B. This is a rich and very easily made cake. One- 
half cupful of currants or of citron cut fine may be 
added. 



133 

Marble Cake. 

Prom Mrs. William Hazlett. 

Dark Part: 1 cupful sugar, 1/2 cupful butter (scant), 
yolks of 4 eggs, % cupful sweet milk or water, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder sifted several times with 1 
full cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful ground cloves, 1 table- 
spoonful cinnamon, nutmeg, pinch of pepper. 

White Part: 1 cupful sugar, */2 cupful butter (scant), 
% cupful water or milk, whites of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder in full cupful flour, vanilla. 

White Perfection Cake. 

From Mrs. J. Green. 

Three cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful butter, 1 cupful rnilk, 
3 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful corn-starch, whites of 12 eggs 
beaten stiff. 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar in flour, 1 
teaspoonful of soda in half of milk; dissolve corn- 
starch in rest of milk, and add to the sugar and butter 
\vell beaten together; then add milk and soda, flour 
and whites of eggs ; flavor ; beat well. 

Reliable Cake. 

From Mrs. James Palache. 

One cupful sugar, i/o cupful butter, 1 teaspoonful 
yeast powder, sifted with 2 cupfuls of flour 3 times, % 
cupful milk, 2 eggs beaten separately, whites added just 
before baking ; flavoring. 

Banana Cake. 

From Mrs. J. Green. 

Cream 1 cupful sugar, */% cupful butter ; add 1 whole 
egg and yolk of another, saving white for frosting ; % 
cupful milk and 2 cupfuls sifted flour with 2 level tea- 



134 

spoonfuls baking powder ; flavor with vanilla ; bake in 
2 layers. Make a frosting by boiling 1 cupful sugar and 
y 2 cupful water until it threads; pour over the stiffly 
beaten white of 1 egg, beat until smooth and spread half 
between layers with 2 bananas sliced thin over it ; flavor 
the other half with vanilla for the top of cake. 

Chocolate Cake. 

From Mrs. I. H. Morse. 

Two cupfuls sugar, y 2 cupful butter, 2/3 cupful milk. 
2~y 2 cupfuls flour, 5 eggs (reserving the whites of 3 for 
the frosting). Grate 2 squares of chocolate and add to 
the 3 whites beaten to a stiff froth and 2 cupfuls of 
sugar. Bake the cake in layers and spread the frosting 
between. 

Devil's Food Cake. 

From Mrs. Waldo Coleman. 

Part I. 1/2 cupful grated unsweetened chocolate, 1 
cupful light brown sugar, y 2 cupful sweet milk. Cook 
over the fire, stirring until dissolved ; set aside to cool. 

Part II. 1 cupful brown sugar, y 2 cupful butter, 
y 2 cupful sweet milk, 1 level teaspoonful soda, 2 eggs, 
2y 2 cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the eggs and beat thoroughly ; dissolve the soda in 
the milk; add the milk and flour alternately; add the 
vanilla, and add Part I to Part II. Bake in 3 layers 
and ice with boiled icing. 

Gold Cake. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

This is exceedingly tender and delicious when made 
of sour cream. It may be baked in layers or in a loaf, 



135 

putting the white and yellow batters in streaks like a 
marble cake. For the yellow part, beat to a cream the 
yolks of 4 eggs, then add a cupful of sugar and beat 
again. Add % cupful of thick sour cream into which 
has been stirred a half teaspoonful soda. Next fold in 
1% cupfuls of pastry flour that has been sifted several 
times over, and flavor with a little grated yellow rind of 
orange and a teaspoonful of orange juice, or less of the 
extract. 

Layer or Jelly Cake. 
From Mrs. Dixon. 

Two cupfuls sugar, y 2 cupful butter, 2 eggs, 1 cupful 
milk, 3 cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Rub butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs (well 
beaten), then milk, baking powder and flour. 

Pistache Cake. 
From Mrs. G. C. Boardman, Jr. 

One and three-quarter cupfuls flour, 1*4 cupfuls 
powdered sugar. 4 eggs. Beat eggs 10 minutes, add 
sugar, beat 10 minutes more, then add flour and beat 
10 minutes; pour immediately in well buttered cake- 
pan, and bake about 1 hour in moderate oven. When 
done, cut off candied or hard crust, slice with large, 
sharp knife into thin layers ; fill with following : l / 2 pint 
whipped cream (stiff), 1 cupful almonds chopped (not 
too fine), 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, extract of 
pistache to taste, 1 drop of coloring. Frosting: Beat 
enough powdered sugar into white of 1 egg to make 
stiff enough to spread, add pistache extract, and drop 
of coloring. Should not be served for 10 hours, as cake 
should absorb the cream. 



136 

Boll Sponge Cake. 

From Mrs. Chapman. 

Three eggs, 1 scant cupful sugar, 1 scant cupful 
flour (salt flavoring), 1 teaspoonful yeast powder, 1 
tablespoonful boiling water. Beat eggs and sugar to a 
cream, add flour and beat well; add other ingredients, 
hot water the last. Bake in slow oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

From Mrs. J. Green. 

Four eggs well beaten; 1-2/3 cupfuls sugar, 2/3 cup- 
ful water with juice of lemon or lime, 2 cupfuls flour, 
1 teaspoonful baking powder, a pinch of salt. Bake 15 
minutes with oven door open and 15 minutes with door 
closed. 

Walnut Cake. 

From Mrs. F. P. Burgess. 

One cupful walnuts (do not break very fine), 1 cup- 
ful sugar, l /2 cupful milk, y 2 cupful butter (scant), 2 
cupfuls flour (before sifting), 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, whites of 3 eggs beaten to stiff froth. Cream 
sugar and butter, add milk, then flour, then the beaten 
whites of eggs, and last the nuts, well floured. As all 
flour is not the same, a little more milk is sometimes 
needed to make the right consistency. 

Walnut Wafers. 

From Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

One cupful brown sugar, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls 
flour after it is sifted, pinch of salt, pinch of baking 
powder. One teaspoonful of mixture makes proper 
size of wafer. Scatter chopped walnuts on top and 
allow a little space for spreading between the wafers. 



137 

Walnut Wafers. 

From Mrs. Philip Rice. 

One cupful broken walnuts, 1 cupful brown sugar, 
2 eggs (whites and yolks beaten together), 3 heaping 
tablespoonfuls flour, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful 
melted butter. 

Bonchettes. 

From Mrs. J. Nash. 

Six eggs beaten separately, 2 cupfuls sugar, 2 cup- 
fuls flour, grated rind of 1 lemon, % teaspoonful soda, 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Bake in patty pans. 
When cold split open and fill with whipped cream. 

Malvern Cakes. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Make a sheet of sponge cake in the following way : 
Beat 3 eggs with 4 1 /2 ounces of sugar to a very stiff 
froth, resembling thick cooked custard. Put the egg 
whisk aside and lightly stir in (with a spoon) 3 ounces 
of flour with % teaspoonful of baking powder mixed 
into it. Bake in a Swiss roll tin or meat tin lined with 
buttered paper. It should be about 10 by 14 inches. 
When lightly browned and firm to the touch, turn onto 
a paper dusted with powdered sugar to cool. When 
cold, spread with the following butter icing, and if 
possible leave 2 or 3 hours in a cool place before cut- 
ting out. For the icing, take 2 ounces of fresh butter, 
!/ pound of icing sugar, 2 heaped teaspoonfuls of any 
good cocoa. Beat the butter and icing sugar together. 
Add just sufficient water to the cocoa to dissolve it to 
a smooth, thick cream. Stir it into the icing, and beat 



to a smooth paste. Spread with a knife on the sponge 
cake, dipping the knife in boiling water to smooth it if 
necessary. When cold and firmly set, cut cleanly into 
small fingers with a large, sharp carving knife. 



Victoria Cakes. 

From Mrs. C. P. Aked. 

Take 4 eggs, ^ pound of powdered sugar, 2 ounces 
of Vienna flour, 2 ounces of corn flour, 1 teaspoonful of 
baking powder. For the icing : 14 pound of fresh but- 
ter, y 2 pound of icing sugar, some brown almonds 
chopped, a few drops of almond essence. Beat the yolks 
of eggs with the powdered sugar, sift the flour and 
baking powder, beat up the whites to a very stiff froth ; 
then stir the flour into the yolk mixture, add the whites 
of eggs very lightly but thoroughly stirred in. Butter 
some little square moulds, pour in the mixture, and 
bake. Or the mixture can be baked in a square tin and 
cut into small cakes after it is baked. When cold, 
cover each little cake with the following icing : Put the 
icing sugar through a hair sieve into a basin, add the 
butter and work with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, 
then add a few drops of almond essence if liked, or 
can be left plain. Ice each little cake and sprinkle 
chopped almonds on top. 



Soft Gingerbread. 

Mrs. 0. G. Dornin. 

One cupful molasses, 1 cupful brown sugar, 1 cupful 
sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 3 cupfuls flour, 3 eggs, 
YO cupful butter, 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 



139 

Molasses Gingerbread. 

From Mrs. J. Nash. 

One-half cupful sugar, ^ cupful molasses, % cupful 
sour milk, % cupful butter, 1 egg, 2 cupfuls flour, 1 
teaspoonful soda (dissolved in sour milk), spice to 
taste. 

Yorkshire Parkin. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients: % pound flour, !/ pound oatmeal (me- 
dium), 1/2 pound syrup (molasses), !/4 pound soft 
sugar, 14 pound butter or lard, candied peel, pinch of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful carbonate soda, 1 egg. Method : Put 
the syrup and butter in a jar on the stove to warm. 
Mix the beaten egg and the carbonate soda, flour, oat- 
meal, salt, sugar, and peel together, then stir in the 
contents of the jar and well mix, adding buttermilk 
if not thin enough to drop off a spoon. Bake in a 
square roasting tin well buttered about % an hour. 
Done when firm in the center. Try with finger. 



Coffee Cake. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

Use 1 cupful brown sugar, 1 cupful molasses, ^ cup- 
ful butter, 1 cupful strong coffee, 1 egg (or yolks of 
2), 1 heaping teaspoonful soda in flour, 1 tablespoon- 
ful cinnamon. 1 teaspoonful cloves, 2 pounds raisins, 
14 pound citron. Soften the butter, beat with the 
sugar, add the eggs, spices, molasses, and coffee, then 
the flour, and lastly the fruit dredged with flour. 



140 
German Coffee Cake. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

Melt butter, the size of a walnut, in % cupful of 
warm milk; pour into a pint of bread sponge; add % 
cupful of sugar, 1 whole egg and white of another, 
beaten well together, a few raisins, flour to stiffen. 
When nearly baked remove from oven, spreading re- 
maining beaten yolk of egg over the top ; sprinkle well 
with granulated sugar mixed with cinnamon to taste. 
Put back into oven and bake a little longer until done. 



Oatmeal Cookies. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

Three-quarters cupful butter, 1 cupful sugar, 2 eggs, 
2 cupfuls Quaker Oats, 1% cupfuls flour, % teaspoon- 
ful soda, 2 tablespoonfuls milk (fresh or sour, the lat- 
ter preferable), 1 cupful raisins. (Sometimes add 
nuts.) Very stiff mixture. Dot on pan in heaping tea- 
spoonfuls. It spreads when heated. 



Chocolate Icing. 

From Mrs. Warring Wilkinson. 

Two ounces chocolate, place where it will melt slowly 
but not scorch. When melted stir 3 tablespoonfuls 
of milk or cream and 1 of water into the chocolate. 
Mix all well together; add a scant teacupful of sugar; 
boil 5 minutes and while hot (when cake is cold) spread 
evenly over the surface. 



141 
Feather Filling for any Layer Cake. 

From Mrs. H. C. Botsford. 

One cupful water, 2 large tablespoonfuls flour; mix 
as for starch and boil till thick like cream. Stand till 
cold. Cream y 2 cupful butter and 1 cupful sugar, and 
beat a little at a time into the flour and water. Flavor 
with vanilla. 





xua^<L^/w 



/ &e3k, 

O^Lx /o_, 



<OxQ> 



xrT. /Atx^^Y 

. y^/hsij_^^0L^<sL^ 

&x<tX ^O-^L^L^n^j^ 

(() ^**^L& ^ 

^ . -^ , . r ~i*- ~^^_^*_^ , vf/yi/fL 

/*MAL JL<r^ sL^utr 

i 



, X-^^ffc^ ^ 







- C^9^//tX. ^^/llltruu- 
tnr*^^ (k^^ A^lcuiAr^^ 



I 





"3te titujera make fin? fraaia." 



BREAD 



Brown Bread. 



From Mrs. J. J. Miller. 

One egg; beat yolk and white separately; use yolk; 
1/2 teacupful brown sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 2 
level tablespoonfuls melted butter, 2 teacupfuls butter- 
milk or sour milk, 4 teacupfuls coarse graham flour. 
Stir thoroughly. One level teaspoonful soda, added 
just before the beaten white of egg. Stir slightly. 
Bake in two small loaves in a slow oven. 



Brown Bread. 

From Mrs. C. H. Slack. 

One cupful corn meal, 1 cupful rye meal, 1 cupful 
graham flour; mix with water or some milk; 1 cupful 
molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. Steam from 3 to 5 hours. 



Bran Bread. 

From Mrs. Philip Rice. 

Two cupfuls Ralston bran, 1 cupful white flour, 1 
cupful sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, ^ 
teaspoonful soda, */ teaspoonful salt, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls molasses. Bake in moderate oven 1 hour. 



146 

Graham Bread. 

From Mrs. G. J. Wright. 

Two and a half cupfuls graham flour, 1 cupful yellow 
corn meal, 1 cupful white flour, 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, sifted with the white flour. 
Mix these very thoroughly. In another bowl dissolve 
1 teaspoonful soda in 2% cupfuls sour milk or butter- 
milk. Add 1 tablespoonful olive oil and l /2 cupful mo- 
lasses. Stir in the flour, beating well. If desired, a 
cupful of raisins may be added. Bake in 2 loaves, in 
a slow oven. 

Southern Corn Bread. 

From Mrs. Monroe Salisbury. 

Two cupfuls well cooked granulated hominy, 1 cup- 
ful well cooked white corn meal, 4 tablespoonfuls but- 
ter, enough milk to make a very soft batter, salt to 
taste, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 3 eggs. Heat and 
butter pan. Cook in medium hot oven for 40 minutes. 

Nut Bread. 

From Mrs. H. C. Botsford. 

Three cupfuls flour, % cupful sugar, 4 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt. Sift all together; 
add l l /2 cupfuls sweet milk and 1^ cupfuls of walnuts 
chopped. Bake % of an hour. 



Nut Bread. 

From Mrs. W. H. Matson. 

Sift together 4 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
cupful sugar, and 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Add 



147 

2 cupfuls milk and 2 well beaten eggs, 1 cupful 
chopped nuts, and 1 cupful raisins. Let stand 20 min- 
utes and bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. 

Parker House Rolls. 

From Mrs. Grover. 

Boil 1 pint of sweet milk. When partly cooked melt 
into it half a cupful of white sugar (better without 
sugar) and 1 or more tablespoonfuls of butter or lard. 
When luke-warm add !/2 cupful of yeast. Make a hole 
in 2 quarts of flour and pour this mixture in. If for 
tea set to rise over night. In the morning mix well 
and knead for half an hour. Set to rise again. At 
4 o'clock in the afternoon knead for 10 minutes. Boll 
out and cut as for biscuit, only thinner. Rub melted 
butter over half the surface, mould over, and set to 
rise. Bake when light. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 

From Mrs. Franklin A. Zane. 

One quart of flour sifted, 1 cupful milk, 2 heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 heaping teaspoonful 
lard, 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

Southern Beaten Biscuit. 

From Mrs. G. C. Boardman, Jr. 

One pint flour, 1 tablespoonful lard, 1 teaspoonful 
salt ; mix thoroughly. Add enough water to make stiff 
dough. Beat with hammer or knead till dough is 
smooth and snaps, about 20 minutes, or put through 
meat chopper 3 times. Roll about % inch thick; cut 
and prick with fork. Bake in quick oven. 



148 

Southern Beaten Biscuit. 

From Miss Augusta Gibbs Foute. 

One quart flour, 1 heaping tablespoonful butter, 2 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 pint 
milk. Sift flour, baking powder and salt together and 
mix with butter with a spoon (or hands). Mix with 
the milk into as soft a dough as can be handled. Roll 
% inch thick and bake quickly. 

Rusks. 

From Mrs. C. H. Slack. 

One pint warm milk, with half a teacupful butter 
melted in the milk, 2 eggs, 1 cupful sugar, salt, l /% yeast 
cake, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. Mix with flour enough 
to make a stiff sponge. Mix at night and in the morn- 
ing mould out. Must be very light. After they are 
baked, wet with milk and brown sugar over the top. 

Bannocks. 

From Mrs. S. H. Boardman. 

Two cupfuls white meal. Scald with boiling water, 
add a little salt and beat until it cools. Stir in a couple 
of beaten eggs and drop a tablespoonful at a time into 
boiling lard. 

Popovers. 

From Mrs. G. C. Adams. 

Beat 2 eggs well together; add a measuring cupful 
of milk ; also beat in a cupful of flour and a little salt. 
Beat long and hard. Put in gem pans with a small 
amount of melted butter in each gem pan. Bake about 
30 minutes. Gem pans must be hot. 



149 

Popovers. 

From Miss Florence Holman. 

One cupful flour, 1 cupful milk, % teaspoonful salt, 
2 eggs. Stir milk, flour, and salt together, then break 
eggs into batter. Have the batter same thickness as 
for pan cakes. Beat thoroughly and pour into hot 
buttered gem pans and bake in hot oven 30 minutes. 



Waffles. 

From Miss Florence Holman. 

One egg, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, l 1 ^ 
pints milk, 1 tablespoonful corn meal, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, % teaspoonful salt, 1*4 
pints flour. Beat eggs, then add milk and butter. Stir 
in enough flortr to make a thin batter. 

N. B. This recipe is enough for 4 persons. 

Corn Meal Muffins. 

From Mrs. C. A. Savage. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
egg, 2 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful corn meal, 3 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, l^/s cupfuls milk, a little salt. 

Blueberry Muffins. 

From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

One cupful sugar, 1 cupful milk, 2 cupfuls flour, 2 
eggs, butter size of an egg, a little salt, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, 1 cupful blueberries. Dredge the blue- 
berries with flour ; mix with the other ingredients ; bake 
in muffin rings or in a baking pan and cut into squares. 



150 

Doughnuts. 

From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

Three eggs beaten light, 1 coffee cupful sugar, 1 
coffee cupful milk, 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Take about y 2 cupful flour, stir into it 3 heaping tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; use this and enough addi- 
tional flour to roll soft the softer the better; flavor 
with nutmeg. Have the lard hot; cut the doughnuts 
and drop them into the hot lard. 

Doughnuts. 

From Mrs. William Hazlett. 

One cupful sugar, 1 cupful sweet milk, 2 eggs, nut- 
meg (if desired), butter size of a walnut, salt, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder sifted in flour enough to 
make a soft dough. 

Doughnuts. 
From Mrs. Grover. 

Two eggs, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful sour or butter- 
milk, 1 teaspoonful (heaping) of saleratus, 1 small 
nutmeg, some salt, flour enough to handle easily. 

Doughnuts. 

From Mrs. S. F. Mayer. 

Two cupfuls sugar, y 2 cupful butter, 1 cupful milk, 
6 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream the 
sugar and butter; add the eggs well beaten, and then 
the milk. Stir well and add a little salt and nutmeg. 
Put the baking powder into a quart of flour and sift 
into the mixture. Add sufficient flour to roll rather 
thin and cut out with a cutter which has a hole in the 
center. Fry in very hot lard, turning constantly lest 
they get too brown. If these doughnuts are properly 
made they will be entirely free from fat. 



NOTES 



"IHtetnaa of famlf tljmtgly &mtffl* fall." 



Eggs and Cheese 



Curried Eggs. 

Prom Mrs. John C. Coleman. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 small onions 
(minced), 2 dessertspoonfuls of curry-powder, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, 1/2 pint of veal or chicken stock, 2 
tablespoonfuls of cream, 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
slices. Put into chafing-dish, butter and onions and 
cook until they begin to brown; stir in the curry- 
powder, mix well and add flour, stirring quickly all 
the time, then add the stock or a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef dissolved in boiling water. When the mix- 
ture has simmered for ten minutes add cream and 
eggs. When hot serve at once. 

Egg Pipkins. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Butter as many fireproof pipkins as are needed for 
the savoury. Break an egg into each. Season with 
pepper and salt, then cover each egg with a spoonful 
of thick cream and one teaspoonful of grated cheese. 
Place the pipkins on a saute pan in which the boiling 
water comes just half way up the side of the pipkins. 
Poach for about 5 minutes until the eggs are lightly 
set. Being in cases they will take a little longer than 
the ordinary egg. Put a dash of cayenne on each and 
serve very hot. If cream is not available, a thin white 
sauce may be used instead. 



154 

Poached Egg Souffles With Cheese. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put in the saucepan 1 ounce of butter, 1 ounce of 
flour, % teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of cayenne; 
place over the fire and when mixed add gradually 1 
pint of milk, and stir until thick and smooth. Add 
% cup of grated parmesan cheese and the beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs, stir until thickened and set aside until cool. 
Whip the whites of the eggs until very stiff, and stir 
lightly into the cold mixture. Poach 6 fresh eggs in 
salted water until set, drain on a cloth and place each 
on a square of buttered toast on a fire-proof china 
dish. Cover completely with the souffle batter, sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese, and set in a hot oven until 
browned. 

Egg a la Serenne. 

From Mrs. C. 0. G. Miller. 

One pint of bread-crumbs; 6 hard-boiled eggs, chop- 
ped fine and mixed with crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of 
melted butter, 1 teacupful of cream, salt and pepper 
to taste. When well mixed bake in a dish greased 
with butter for 20 minutes. Slice 1 hard-boiled egg, 
lay on top; bake brown for ten minutes. 

Welsh Earebit. 

From Mrs. H. L. Dodge. 

One large cup of rich cheese (Eastern) grated or 
cut into small pieces, 1 small cupful of milk or cream, 
2 well beaten eggs, a little paprika, a dash of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, a little dry mustard. Put a piece of 
butter the size of a large walnut into the chafing-dish ; 



155 

when all the ingredients are ready light the alcohol, 
and when the butter begins to melt put in the cheese 
and a little milk; mash the cheese until dissolved, then 
add the rest of the milk, stir it for a few minutes until 
it melts, then add the eggs gradually, stirring con- 
stantly until the eggs and cheese are smooth. Have 
ready small pieces of toast on hot plates; dip with a 
spoon and cover the toast. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

From Miss M. E. Chambers. 

One tablespoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful corn-starch, 
1/3 cupful thin cream, l / teaspoonful salt, y teaspoon- 
ful mustard, a few grains of cayenne, l /2 pound soft 
mild cheese cut in small pieces; toast or Zephyrettes. 
Melt butter, add corn-starch, and stir until well mixed, 
then add cream gradually while stirring constantly, 
and cook two minutes. Add cheese, and stir until 
cheese is melted. Season, and serve on toast or Zephyr- 
ettes, rarebit being poured over. Much of the success 
of a rarebit depends upon the quality of the cheese. A 
rarebit should be smooth and of a creamy consistency, 
never stringy. 

Cheese Souffle. 

From Mrs. Walter MacGavin. 

Put in a bowl 1 spoonful of flour, four spoonfuls of 
grated cheese, add about 1/3 teacupful of milk, salt, 
and a small piece of butter. Keep stirring the mix- 
ture on a very gentle fire, until the butter is well 
melted. Then take off the fire and let it cool. Whip 
whites of four eggs stiff; add it to the mixture and 
pour it all in a buttered dish. Put in moderate oven 
for 10 or 15 minutes. Serve at once. 



156 

Cheese Souffle. 

From Mrs. R. A. Gould. 

Make a cream sauce with 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1 tablespoonful of flour, and 1 cupful of cold milk, 
and stir constantly until a smooth sauce is formed, 
adding 1 cupful of grated cheese; season with % tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, an.d a dash 
of red pepper. Whip very light the whites of 3 eggs, 
and pour over the mixture. Bake until firm in a but- 
tered dish, placed in a pan of water. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

Cheese Souffle. 

From Mrs. Philip Rice. 

One cupful broken cheese, 1 cupful cream, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, 1^ teaspoonfuls flour, 2 eggs, beaten 
separately. Add mustard, cayenne, and salt to taste. 
Cook in double boiler. 



Cheese Straws. 

From Miss Frances Jones. 

Two ounces of flour, 3 ounces grated parmesan, a 
little cayenne, a little salt, yolk of 1 egg. Mix the 
flour, cayenne, salt and cheese together, and moisten 
with the egg; work all into a smooth paste. Roll out 
on a board, % inch thick, 5 inches wide and 5 inches 
long. Cut some of the paste in small rings and some 
in strips of ^ inch wide. Place both on greased 
sheets and bake ten minutes in an oven (240 deg. Fahr.) 
till a light brown. Put the straws through the rings 
like a bundle of sticks. 



157 

Cheese Timbales. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Make a white sauce of a cupful of milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour and 1 ounce of butter. Take from 
the fire when thick; add 6 tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese, seasoning to taste, and the beaten yolks of 4 
eggs. Cook for a moment, take from the fire, fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites, fill buttered cups, put into 
a pan of hot water, bake for 15 minutes, and serve 
hot. 



" ittistrrssrs tarn 
Hill not to." 



SANDWICHES 

Afternoon Tea Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Whip stiffly a little thick cream, flavor with orange 
juice and add a good quantity of chopped preserved 
ginger. Spread between tiny tea biscuits, or between 
slices of graham bread buttered. 

Chicken Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Chop some chicken and mix with it a little pimento, 
chopped, and enough mayonnaise to moisten it. 
Spread between bread and butter. 

Chocolate Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mix grated chocolate with stiffly whipped cream, 
well sweetened, and add a few chopped almonds. 
Spread between slices of new white bread. 

Derbyshire Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Chop finely some underdone roast beef and mix with 
it a little horse-radish sauce. Spread between slices of 
bread and butter. 



160 

Ginger and Cheese Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mince small a little preserved ginger and mix it 
with cream cheese, moistened with cream. Spread 
between thin .slices of bread and butter. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Chop ham finely and mix with it hard-boiled yolk 
of egg, red pepper and mustard to taste. Rub smooth 
with mayonnaise. Spread between thin slices of bread 
and butter. 

Hasty Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Rub cream cheese to a paste with anchovy essence 
and paprika. Spread between slices of graham bread 
well buttered. 

Luncheon Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mince mutton, season highly, and mix with it a 
little pulped tomato or tomato catsup. Spread thickly 
between slices of bread and butter. 

Matrimony Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Rub cream cheese to a paste with loganberry jelly; 
add a few chopped English walnuts and spread be- 
tween thin slices of bread and butter. 



161 

Mock Foie Gras Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Rub through a wire sieve some boiled calf's liver, 
pound it with butter and cream until smooth, season- 
ing liberally with poultry seasoning; then add a 
sprinkling of lemon juice and a little chopped chiyes 
or pickled gherkins. Spread between thin slices of 
bread and butter. 

Nut and Raisin Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. G. C. Boardman, Jr. 

Put an equal quantity of nuts and seeded raisins 
through meat chopper; spread very thickly between 
very thin slices of well buttered bread cut in inch 
strips. 

Sandwiches a la Schatzalp. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Mince some cold meat to a paste with an anchovy, 
a little parsley and a good-sized piece of butter. Add 
pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of lemon juice, and 
spread on buttered bread. 

This meat will keep a considerable time if placed 
in a covered jar and kept in a cool place. 

Salmon Sandwiches. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take the contents of a can of salmon, drain and 
free from all bone and skin and discolored pieces; 
break up with a fork and pound until quite smooth. 
Mix with mayonnaise and minced capers. Spread be- 
tween bread and butter. 



162 

Van Ness Sandwiched. 

From Mrs. R. A. Gould. 

Bub a cream cheese to a smooth paste with cream; 
add a teaspoonftil of anchovy paste and a little 
chopped green peppers. Serve between slices of white 
bread and butter. 




ODDS AND ENDS 



Angels on Horseback. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients: 1 dozen large plump oysters, a few 
slices fat bacon, pepper, a little lemon juice, 12 pieces 
toasted bread. Method : Trim the bacon, which must 
be cut into very thin, short slices, each large enough to 
roll round an oyster, sprinkle with pepper; lay on the 
oysters and squeeze a little lemon over. Roll them and 
run on a skewer (tooth-picks will do). Fry until the 
bacon is cooked. Put each one on a small square of 
toast and serve quickly, without removing skewers. 
Garnish with parsley. 



Gnoski au Gratin. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients : 6 ounces farina or hominy, y 2 pint milk, 
l}/2 ounces butter, stock, white sauce, grated cheese, 
bread-crumbs. Method: Boil the milk and stir in the 
farina and 1 ounce of butter, season, and cook it whilst 
stirring till sufficiently stiff to be shaped into quenelles, 
then poach them in good stock ; drain and arrange them 
in layers on an earthenware or silver gratin dish, mask 
each layer with white sauce, sprinkle with grated 
cheese mixed with bread-crumbs, place a few tiny bits 
of butter on the top here and there and bake till the 
surface is a nice golden brown, probably ten minutes. 

N. B. To be served with fish, separately. 



164 

Rice Border. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put 1 cupful of rice on to boil in 3 cupfuls of cold 
water. Boil for 1/2 an hour, then add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and a teaspoonful of salt. Set back where it 
will just simmer, and cook for 1 hour. Mash very fine 
with a spoon, add 2 well beaten eggs and stir for a few 
minutes. Butter a plain border mould and fill with the 
rice. Fill the center with anything desired. Serve hot. 

Aspic Jelly. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Take a small cupful less than 1 pint of clear stock, 
nicely flavored, (Liebig's extract of meat and water will 
do), add to it % ounce of gelatine, previously soaked in 
a little water, and the white of one egg; put all into a 
stewpan over the fire, stir until nearly boiling, then add 
2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, let boil up ; stand 
by the side of the fire for 15 minutes, and then strain. 
Pour this into a flat dish, and when set use as desired. 

Green Butter. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Put % ounce of butter on a plate, add sufficient finely 
chopped parsley to make it very green; flavor with 
lemon juice and cayenne ; spread on a plate to become 
firm. Cut into small rounds or squares; one to be 
placed on each cutlet. 

Potted Meat. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Ingredients: 1 pound steak (not fat), 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt (or less), % teaspoonful pepper, y z teaspoon- 



165 

ful brown sugar, saltpetre size of a pea, a pinch of 
cayenne, mace enough to cover a ten-cent piece. 
Method: Put seasonings on steak over night; cut in 
pieces and add a tablespoonful of stock to it in the 
morning; stew in basin in a slow oven for 3 hours. 
Pour off gravy and let the steak get cold; put through 
mincer (sausage) twice; then boil gravy up and add a 
bit of butter, and pour on meat. Put in jars and cover 
with melted butter. 



Ham To Boil. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Soak the ham in several waters, each one acidu- 
lated with vinegar. If the ham is very hard and salty 

24 hours or more will be required ; if not, from 8 to 12 
hours will suffice. Lukewarm water will soften it 
more quickly than cold. Scrub it well and scrape off 
the rusty, discolored parts, but do not cut the skin if 
it can be avoided. Put it into the pan with plenty of 
cold water. Let it come to a boil very slowly, skim 
it carefully, and simmer very gently until sufficiently 
cooked. If it is not intended to be kept any length 
of time it may be left in the water until cool: this 
will improve the taste of the ham, but will render it 
less likely to keep. Avoid sticking a fork into it when 
it is lifted from the pan. Take off the skin and stick 
cloves thickly over the whole surface ; then cover with 
good dark brown glaze, letting it trickle over the 
heads of the cloves. Time to boil: For a new ham, 

25 minutes to the pound is sufficient; for an old one, 
counting from the time the water boils, 30 minutes. 
Add ^4 of an hour for every pound over 12. 



166 

Mince Meat. 

From Mrs. C. S. Fee. 

Two pounds lean beef, boiled and when cold 
chopped fine; 1 pound beef suet, cleared of strings 
and chopped to powder; 5 pounds apples, pared and 
chopped; 2 pounds raisins, seeded; 1 pound Sultana 
raisins, washed; 2 pounds currants, cleaned carefully; 
% pound citron, 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 1 nut- 
meg, grated; 2 tablespoonfuls mace, 1 tablespoonful 
cloves, 1 tablespoonful allspice, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 
2^2 pounds sugar, 1 quart fruit juice left from sweet 
pickles. 



Mince Meat. 
From Mrs. 0. F. Aked. 

Chop very finely 1 pound of raisins (stoned), 1 
pound currants, 1 pound good figs, 1 pound apples 
(previously pared and cored), *4 pound candied lemon 
and 1 pound beef suet well chopped. Mix thoroughly 
together, then add 1 pound of light brown sugar and 
the mince meat will be ready to serve. 

N. B. A 2-pound jar of marmalade in place of the 
candied lemon is very good. 



Raspberry Syrup. 
From Mrs. E. Carlson. 

Seven baskets of fruit, 2 l /% ounces of tartaric acid 
sprinkled over the berries; add 3 quarts of wate'r; 
strain after it has stood 24 hours. Stir for 3 hours; 
then bottle. 



167 



Fruit Punch. 

From Mrs. C. F. Aked. 

Boil together for 5 minutes 1 quart of water, 3 large 
cupfuls of sugar and the grated rind of 1 orange and 
1 lemon. Strain and cool. Add the juice of 2 oranges 
and 4 lemons. Place a large piece of ice in the bowl, 
pour in this mixture and another quart of water, or 
more, depending upon the size of the lemons. Add 
1 A pound each of candied cherries and pineapple cut 
fine. More water or sugar depends upon the judg- 
ment and taste of the maker. 




''Tired, but triumphant." 




TTTJ 



NOTES 



ISTOTES 



NOTES 



NOTES 



NOTES 



WARNING! 



The success of these 
recipes is not guaranteed 
unless they are Mixed 
with Brains. The con- 
tributors give this caution 
in self-defence. Their lives 
are of value to the com- 
munity ! 



CONTENTS 

Page 

1. Appetisans 9 

2. Soups 13 

3. Fish 27 

4. Meats 35 

5. Vegetables 47 

6. Preserves and Pickles 57 

7. Sauces 69 

8. Salads 75 

9. Puddings and Pastries 85 

10. Ices and Light Desserts 105 

11. Candies 121 

12. Cakes 129 

13. Bread 145 

14. Eggs and Cheese 153 

15. Sandwiches 159 

16. Odds and Ends .. . 163 



