








Corner Book Shop 

102 Fourth Ave. 
New York 3, N. Y 



PIPE ORGAN 



COOK BOOK 



Compiled by Ladies of 

FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 

ALEDO, ILLINOIS 

1896 



Revised and Enlarged by the Ladies Social Circle 
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
ALEDO, ILLINOIS 
1907 



THIRD EDITION 
19 11 



« 



PRESS OF 

THE TIMES RECORD COMPANY 

ALEDO, ILLINOIS 



t fc INDEX. 

Soups 7- 1 1 

Oysters and Fish 1 1-15 

Eggs . 15-17 

Meats l 7~ 2 9 

Vegetables 29-36 

Salads and Salad Dressings 37 _ 47 

Bread and Rolls 48-56 

Breakfast and Other Dishes . 57-64 

Pastry «< 64-74 

Puddings 74 _ 9 2 

Desserts, Ice Cream, and Ices 93"99 

Fruit 99-104 

Pickles and Catsups 105-1 14 

Loaf Cake 1 15-123 

Layer Cake 123-134 

Cake Fillings 134-136 

Ginger-Bread, Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc 137-148 

Chafing Dishes 148-150 

Sandwiches 150-152 

Confectionery I 53 _I 57 

Beverages 157-158 

Miscellaneous 159-165 

Menus 165-167 



Good people seek some quiet nook, 
Throw off your cares and take a look, 
And we will in our little book, 
Tell you how Aledo ladies cook. 

No matter what they undertake, 
Whether fry, or stew, or bake ; 
They never fail, or make mistake, 
But choicest dainties always make. 

And now their secrets they reveal, 
So when you tired, or hungry feel, 
Don't to a doctor make appeal, 
But cook yourself a good square meal. 



"We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience and without heart; 
"We may live without friends ; we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
He may live without books — what is knowledge without griev- 
ing? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 






SOUPS. 



"Cap— What's there? 

1st Servant — Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what." — 
Romeo and Juliet. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One large head of celery cut into inch pieces, put it into 
2 quarts of stock and let it simmer an hour, or until the celery- 
is very soft. Strain and put on to boil again. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a small sauce pan and when melted and 
bubbling stir in a large tablespoon of flour quickly, then add 
gradually a cup of the soup and stir vigorously till perfectly 
smooth. When this boils and thickens stir into the soup. Put 
the yolks of 2 eggs in a cup and beat until light, fill the cup up 
with rich milk, add to the boiling soup, let come to the boiling 
point and serve. Mrs. E. J. McKinney. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Boil 12 stalks of celery cut in small pieces in 3 pints of 
water for one-half hour. Add one-half onion and 2 blades of 
mace and pass through a sieve. Mix 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
add to the soup with a pint of milk and salt and pepper to 
taste. A cupful of cream added just before serving makes a 
great improvement. Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

One pt. black beans, 2 qts. cold water, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 
1 small onion, 1 salt spoonful pepper, one-fourth salt spoonful 
cayenne, 1 salt spoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful flour, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, 1 lemon, 2 hard boiled eggs. Have 
about two quarts when done. Rub the beans through a sieve, 
put to boil again, add salt, pepper and mustard. When boil- 
ing thicken it with flour and butter which have been cooked 



8 

together. Cut lemon and eggs in dish and pour soup over 
them. Clarance Brock Dickerson. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Two well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, enough flour to 
make very stiff. Knead until as smooth as glass, take piece 
size of walnut, roll thin as wafer. When all dough is rolled 
out roll the pieces together as for roll jelly cake, cut in very 
narrow strips, then stir slowly into boiling broth, well season- 
ed, half hour before serving. Mrs. S. Adams. 

NOODLES. 

Take one Qgg, i tablespoonful of butter, i cupful of sour 
milk, i teaspoonful of soda, and flour enough to make roll 
thin. Cut in fine strips and drop in boiling beef soup. 

Mrs. \Y. R. Marsh. 

CORN CREAM SOUP. 

One-half cup of melted butter, hot, one-half cup sifted 
flour, one-half can of corn ; add I pint of soup stock, I quart of 
sweet milk, hot, stir constantly and boil one-half hour longer. 
Run through a sieve or colander, add salt and nutmeg. This 
is enough for ten people. Do not use pepper. 

Mrs. Agnes Elliott. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 

To each quart of corn cut from the cob, or canned corn. 
add 3 pints of water, boil until tender, and then add 2 ounces 
of butter that has been well mixed with 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, boil for 15 minutes more, season with salt and pepper to 
taste, and just before serving add a heaping cupful of whipped 
cream. Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

CREAM OF CORN. 

Add to one can of corn, or green corn grated to the amount 
of one can, one pint of water, let this simmer five minutes, then 



add to it three cups of milk, place- in a stew pan two tablespoons 
of butter, two tablespoons of flour, a little pepper, one table- 
spoon minced onion and the sieved yolks of two hard boiled 
eggs. Let this cook to a bubbling and add to it one cup milk. 
When well mixed add the corn and milk. Let all simmer a mo- 
ment, strain through a wire sieve and salt to taste, serve hot. 

Mrs. J. T. Jobe. 

Mrs. C. W. Cole. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One pint tomatoes, 3 pints boiling water. Let these boi' 
then add 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, season to taste with 
butter, pepper and salt. Mrs. J. G. Sexton. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Take 1 can tomatoes and 2 sliced onions, boil one hour, 
strain, add a little soda (about the size of 2 beans) and 1 quart 
of milk, salt and pepper to taste, butter about the size of a 
hickory nut, let come to a boil and serve at once. 

Mrs. C. K. Marquis. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Strain 1 can of tomatoes and boil with one pint of chicken 
or beef stock, and one-half pint of water if tomatoes are thick. 
Add butter size of walnut. Pour in slowly Avhile boiling one- 
half teacup of cream into which 1 tablespoonful of llonr has 
been smoothly beaten. Avid salt and a very little red perper. 

Pearl Love. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart soup stock, one quart tomatoes strained, one 
onion chopped fine. After they have boiled, add one coffee cup 
milk, salt, pepper and a little thickening just before serving. 

Minota Bassett. 




10 
CONSOMME. 

Chop one pound lean beef, mix with it a sliced onion or 
carrot, six eggs "shells and all" and a little salt and pepper. 
Mix thoroughly with 3 quarts of cold stock and put in a sauce 
pan on range to let it come to a boil, skimming from time to 
time, so that it may not burn. After boiling very slowly fif- 
teen minutes, strain through napkin and your consomme will 
be ready to serve. If attention is paid to this, soup should be 
as clear as champagne. From this consomme a variety of 
soups can be made. Mrs. T. Hartzelle Cobb. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

One bunch asparagus boiled in a quart of salted water 
for 20 minutes. Press asparagus through a colander. Put a 
quart of milk in double boiler adding a little parsley and a 
piece of onion. For thickening use two ounces of butter and 
3 spoonfuls of flour rubbed together and thinned with milk, 
then stir into boiling milk until it thickens. Add to the aspar- 
agus. Mrs. Vic Bassett. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Use a quart of boiled beans strained through a colander. 
Boil together 3 sliced potatoes, 1 onion, either fresh celery or 
celery salt, a little rice and any other vegetable desired. If a 
smooth soup is preferred strain the vegetables through a col- 
ander, add the beans, season to taste. Use either soup stock 
or a generous amount of butter. Mrs. Vic Bassett. 

VARIETY VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take two quarts of beef stock. Cook till tender 1 sliced 
carrot, 1 turnip, 2 potatoes, 2 small onions, 1 cup of chopped 
cabbage (not too fine )and 1 cup brown beans. All vegetables 
can be cooked together except the brown beans which should 
be boiled separately and a little soda added to the first water. 



m 



11 



About half hour before serving put all vegetables in the stock 
and boil slowly till ready to serve. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. W. J. Graham. 

OYSTERS AND FISH. 

OYSTERS. 

'It is unseasonable and unwholesome in all months that have not 
an R in their names to eat an oyster." — Butler. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Take I pint of oysters and the same amount of sweet- 
breads, put the sweetbreads on to cook in boiling water, cook 
one-half hour, let cool and separate with a fork. Make a rich 
gravy, using the liquor in which the sweetbreads were boiled, 
then make a dough as for baking powder biscuit, using butter 
instead of lard, line the bottom and sides of a pan with crust, 
put in a layer of oysters and sweetbreads in about equal pro- 
portions, sprinkle with pepper and salt and bits of butter, then 
a layer of gravy, then more oysters and sweetbreads until all 
are used, cover with a crust, bake 20 minutes, a golden brown. 

S. E. Peterson. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES. 

To 1 quart solid oyster meats allow one-half cup melted 
butter, one-half cup sweet cream, 8 soda crackers, whites of 3 
eggs. Chop the oysters fine, roll the crackers to a dust, beat 
the white of the eggs stiff, mix the ingredients and cook in a 
double boiler till a smooth paste is formed. When very cold 
cut in thin slices and lay between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Mrs. O. M. Hammond. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Crush the desired quantity of crackers, put a layer in the 



12 



the OYi 



1x)ttom of a buttered dish, moisten with some of thWtyster 
liquor, next put a layer of oysters, season with salt, pepper and 
plenty of butter, repeat till the dish is full, having the last 
layer of crackers stuck with bits of butter. Pour over enough 
rich milk to moisten well, bake about one-half hour. 

Mrs. Jos. C. Gilmore. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One pint of rolled crackers, one pint of oysters, three- 
fourths cup of milk, one-half cup melted butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Stir the crackers and oysters together first, add 
butter and milk, stir again, put in bake dish and sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs. Elizabeth Winders. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Take as many large oysters as are desired, season with 
salt and pepper, cut very thin slices of fat bacon; wrap each 
oyster in a slice of bacon and fasten with a wooden skewer, put 
in a hot skillet and cook just long enough to crisp the bacon. 

Blanche McKinney. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

Juice of one-half lemon, one-half teaspoon vinegar, 8 
drops Tobasco sauce, one-half teaspoonful horse-radish, one- 
third teaspoon ful tomato catsup, add eight blue points, let 
stand five minutes and serve very cold in tall glasses. 

Mrs. M. E. Wharton. 

FISH. 

"This fish was well fished for.' — Winter's Tale. 

FISH TURBOT. 

Take a white fish — any dry white meated fish w r ill do — 
about 3 pounds in weight, steam until quite tender, pick apart, 
removing bones and skin. Make a white sauce of I pint of sweet 



13 

milk, small cup of flour, three-fourths cup of butter, season 
well and cook until flour is thoroughly done. Put in a baking 
dish, alternate layers of fish and sauce, cover with cracker 
crumbs and bake 20 minutes to one-half hour. 

Mary O. McKinney. 

SALT FISH BALLS. 

One cup raw salt fish, 1 pint potatoes, 1 teaspoonful but- 
ter, 1 egg well beaten, one-fourth salt spoonful pepper. Wash 
the fish, pick in half inch pieces free from bones. Pare the pota- 
toes, put fish and potatoes in a stew pan, cover with boiling 
water, boil until the potatoes are soft. Drain off water, mash 
and beat the fish and potatoes till very light, add butter and 
pepper. When slightly cooled add the egg, and more salt if 
needed. Take tablespoonful and drop in hot lard, fry brown. 

Mrs. A. M. Byers. 

CODFISH STEW. 

Soak in cold water one and one-half cups of shredded cod- 
fish for a couple of hours, drain and par-boil, drain and add 
enough sweet milk to cover well, season with pepper and but- 
ter and a little salt. When the milk comes to a boil thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour or corn starch, boil until it 
thickens. Laurena Oliver. 

BAKED FISH. 

Scale, wash and wipe a medium sized fish, stuff with a 
plain dressing, put in a pan of water, salt, pepper and but- 
ter. Bake until tender, and a nice brown. When ready to 
serve lift out the fish, make a thick gravy well seasoned and 
pour over it. Mrs. H. S. 

BAKED FISH. 

A well dressed fish, salt thoroughly and fill with bread 
dressing as for chicken, garnish with onions and add a little 
chopped onion to the dressing. Pepper, salt and flour as 



14 

roast beef, bake in a moderate oven, basting often, and serve 
with white sance. If preferred, parsley may be used instead 
of onions. Ora B. Mertz. 

TO FRY FRESH FISH. 

Clean, roll in flour, fry in butter or fresh lard, salt. Keep 
well covered while cooking. When well done lift, pour good 
cream in spider, l^t boil, pour over fish, serve hot. 

| . ,^_ Mrs. Theresa Dool. 

PLANKED WHITE FISH. 

Fish cooked in this way is fine and not much more trou- 
ble than cooked the ordinary way. Have'a two inch plank 
made from hard wood, oak is best, about the size of a large 
platter. When ready for use put in the oven and heat very 
hot, split fish down the back, wipe dry and put it skin down 
on the hot plank and keep the oven quite hot for ten minutes, 
then baste with 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 of water, 1 teaspoon 
of salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. After basting bake 
more moderately about 30 minutes putting on a very little of 
the sauce at a time, basting at intervals of 10 minutes. Re- 
move plank to platter and garnish with any suitable garnish 
such as potato chips, parsley and slices of lemon. 

Mrs. J. H. Ramsey. 

FRIED FISH. 

Clean nicely, wipe dry, rub with salt and roll in corn 
meal or flour, then put in skillet containing plenty of hot lard 
and butter, fry till brown. Do not cover skillet. 

Mrs. M. Sponsler. 

FRIED FROGS. 

Lay the frogs in a pan of hot butter, pour over two table- 
spoonfuls of water, making a hot steam and cover quickly. 
A very little salt. Mrs. Anne Roberts. 



15 

* -—«* ■«— SALMON-LOAF. 

-Drain aiv ntents of onecanpf salmon. Add 

t lie beaten yolks of 3 eggs," one-half o&p bread -crumbs^ one- v 
"tli cup melted butter, salt, pepper and a little minced 

;; the stiff tffifte , s r -"6f"trfe'e^s. Bake in 
a well buttered tin half an hour in a rather moderate oven. 
sliced mi lettuce lea ves . arH iHriayonnaise dressing, 
warm wit 1 Vmon. Katherine Roberts. 





.emckens i' the rolius and Cressida. 

i0tr- A PERFECTLY PREPARED EGG. 






prepare a perfectly fresTf egg, so an afflicted stomach 
can eat it, pour boiling water into a granite or tin cup, put in 
egg (in its shell) cover, stand on rear of stove for ^-minutes. 

Mrs. W. X. Boyer. 

EGG OMELET. 

To 1 egg add 1 tablespoon of milk, one-eighth teaspoon 
of salt, one-half teaspoon of butter. Separate yolks and whites 
beat thoroughly. Add salt and milk to yolks and add to the 
well beaten whites. Fry in very hot pan. When creamy 
fold and turn on a warm plate. Famie Dool. 

OMELET. 

Separate 5 eggs. Beat the yolks, add 1 tablespoonful of 
sifted flour, salt, pepper and 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
Blend until smooth; add gradually scant pint of milk, then 
the beaten whites. When ''set" — and determine this by run- 
ning broad bladed knife under it — place in hot oven until 
brown. Mrs. W. N. Boyer. 

CREAMY OMELET. 

Separate whites and yolks of six eggs, add to yolks one- 



16 

half teaspoon flour, one-half teaspoon salt, a little pepper, beat 
well, add 6 tablespoons sweet milk or cream; beat whites very 
stiff, adding one- fourth teaspoon cream tartar. Add yolks to 
whites and turn into skillet with 2 tablespoons of butter. 

Lillian Merritt. 

Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

OMELET. 

Whites of 5 eggs beaten very stiff, then add the yolks 
one at a time beating a few seconds between, till all are added. 
Then add 1 teacup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon flour in which one- 
fourth teaspoon baking powder has been thoroughly mixed, 1 
teaspoon salt and a dash of pepper. Turn into a warm skillet 
which has been well rubbed with butter. Let it cook slowly 
until nearly set, then put it in a hot oven for a few minutes, 
take it out and roll on a hot platter and serve. 

Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

EGG BASKETS. 

Make these for lunch the day after you have had roast 
chicken, duck or turkey for dinner. Boil 6 eggs hard, cut 
neatly in half and extract the yolks ; rub these to a paste with 
some melted butter, pepper and salt and set aside. Pound the 
minced meat of the cold fowl fine in the same manner and mix 
with the egg paste, moistening w r ith melted butter as you pro- 
ceed, or wit ha little gravy if you have it to spare. Cut a slice 
from the hollowed whites of the eggs to make them stand ; 
fill in with the paste, arrange close together upon a flat dish and 
pour over them the gravy left from yesterday's roast heated 
boiling hot, and mellowed by a few spoons of cream or rich 
milk. Mrs. Stella L. Guthrie. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Cook four eggs till hard. Make a white sauce by melting 
one heaping tablespoon ful of butter and mixing with it one 



17 

heaping tablespoonful of flour, then add slowly one cupful of 
milk. Season with salt and pepper and cook until thick. Chop 
the whites of the eggs and add to the sauce. When ready to 
serve pour the sauce and whites into a dish and press the yolks 
seasoned with salt and pepper, through a sieve over the sauce. 
This is nice served on buttered toast. 

Bessie K. Bigelow. 

POACHED WHIPPED EGGS. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and place the 
froth in individual cups. Drop the whole yolk in the center. 
Stand the cups in sauce pan of hot water over a hot fire. Cover 
the pan and poach five minutes. Season and serve in the 
cups. Mrs. Finch. 

MEATS. 

"There's no want of meats, sir, 

Portly and curious viands are prepared 

To please all kinds of appetite." — Massenger. 

BUYING, COOKING, CARVING. 

Beef and mutton are considered the best animal food. 
Avoid buying meat of any kind when the fat is over yellow. 
It may denote a diseased liver and is therefore unwholesome. 
In the cooking of meats the whole theory is to retain as much 
as possible of the nutriment of it. Plunging in boiling water 
hardens the fibrine on the outside, encasing and retaining the 
rich juices. Boil or bake gently, as rapid cooking renders the 
meat hard and tasteless. No salt should be added until the 
meat is nearly done, as it extracts the juice if added too soon. 
Salt meat should be put to cook in cold water so that it may 
freshen in cooking. Allow 20 minutes to the pound for fresh 
and 35 for salt meats, the time to be modified of course by the 



18 

quality of the meat. In carving always slice cross grain. Cold 
meats should be sliced very thinly and not too thick when 
served hut. Mrs. Sue C. Bassett. 

BOILING AND STEWING. 

Fresh meat for boiling should be put into boiling water 
and boiled very gently about 20 minutes for each pound. A 
little salt, spice or vegetables may be boiled in the water with 
the meat for seasoning. A little vinegar put in the water with 
tough meat makes it tender. The broth of boiled meat should 
always be saved to use in soups, stews and gravies. Stewing 
and simmering meats means to place them near enough to the 
fire to keep the water on them bubbling moderately, constantly 
and slowly. Salt meats should be put over the fire in cold 
water, which as soon as it boils should be replaced by fresh cold 
water, the water to be changed until it remains fresh enough 
to give the meat a palatable flavor when done. Salted and 
smoked meats require about 30 minutes very slow boiling, 
from the time the water boils, to each pound. Vegetables and 
herbs may be boiled with them to flavor them. When they 
are cooked the vessel containing them should be set where they 
will keep hot without boiling until required, if they are to be 
served hot ; if they are to be served cold, they should be allow- 
ed to cool in the pot liquor in which they were boiled. Very 
salt meats, or those much dried in smoking, should be soaked 
over night in cold water before boiling. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Prepare a 4 lb. roast with salt and pepper and a thick 
paste of flour over top. Put in a tight baker with a pint of 
water. Don't remove top except to put in sage dressing or 
Yorkshire pudding the last hour. Roast three hours. 

Mrs. N. H. Morrison. 




Beat 
i pint of sweeVmil 
spoonful of bak^B 
rich pudding is desired 
after the baking powder. 



E PUDDING. 

half teaspoonful of salt, add 
5^g^^d i heaping tea- 
together. If a 
r 
Pour' 1 Bund the roast 




about one-half an hour "before it is to be talvCTKxrom the oven 
and baked. This pudding^cmakes a nfti^dessert if boiled in a 
bag for two hours and servecN^pt with sauce and fruit. 

:■§.. Emma Albercrombie. 

TO COOK CHICKEN. X x 

Clean and disjoint as if to fry. Then put into aNlripping 
pan a tablespoonful of butter, roll the pieces in flour ancNrjlace 
in the dripping pan, season with pepper and salt, add a cup of 
sweet cream, cover closely, put in a hot oven and roast till ten- 
der. Anna Hammond. 

TO FRY CHICKEN. 

Salt the chicken, let stand in a cool place for several 
hours, have the skillet hot with equal parts of butter and lard, 
flour the chicken well, cover with a lid until the chicken is 
heated through, but not longer, as it will make it soggy in- 
stead of crisp, watch carefully, do not let it stand in the grease 
any longer than necessary, but lift as soon as it is a nice brown. 

Mrs. J. G. McGufnn. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Clean and disjoint the fowl as for frying, salt and pepper 
to taste. Place the bake pan (or skillet) on the stove with 
equal parts lard and butter — about I tablespoonful of each; 
when quite hot roll each piece of chicken heavily in flour and 
place side by side in pan; lay the chicken fat (cut into small 
bits) over the top, now dredge about 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
over all, pour in about a pint of boiling water, cover tightly, 



20 

place in hot oven and bake about two hours, or longer if the 
fowl is large. Should it become too dry while baking add a 
little more water. Should be a nice, rich brown when done. 

Mrs. Clara D. Butler. 

ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

When the fowl is dressed and ready for cooking, dredge 

with a little flour inside and out, also a little pepper and salt. 
Prepare a dressing, fill the fowl and roast for two or three 
hours. Baste frequently while roasting. 

Mrs. L. W. Wright. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Chop bread crumbs fine, season well with pepper, salt 
and plenty of butter, moisten with a very little water, and add 
a few oysters with a little of the liquor, if you please. The best 
authorities say the dressing is finest when it crumbles as the 
fowl is cut. Mrs. L. W. Wright. 

DRESSING FOR ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Break stale bread in small bits, soak in cold water until 
soft, season with a generous quantity of butter, and add salt 
and pepper to taste, some kind of savory or celery if you do 
not use oysters. If the oysters are used separate them from 
the broth, strain and pour the latter over the dressing; mix 
with a fork. Never put the hand in it until ready for the 
fowl, then put in alternately a handful of dressing and a few 
oysters; Do not pack too firmly. 

Mrs. Alvah Jay, Sunbeam. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR ROAST CHICKEN. 

Two cups sweet milk, I small onion, I thick slice bread 
crumbed (remove the crust), butter, pepper and salt to taste. 
Let milk come to a boil with onion and seasoning in it, then 
add the crumbs; let boil 10 minutes longer, take out onion and 
serve. Mrs. O. J. Lorimer. 



21 
POTTED CHICKEN. 

Dress and cut up a chicken as for frying, put 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter in a kettle, place the chicken in the kettle, season 
with salt and pepper, cover closely, set on top of stove, not over 
the fire and simmer one hour. Old chicken may be cooked the 
same, if care is taken and cooked three or four hours. 

Mrs. Wm. McHard. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

One nice chicken stewed until nearly done, then make a 
nice thick gravy with the chicken, have ready a good sized pan 
lined with good rich pie crust made as for fruit pie, only roll 
one-fourth inch thick, put in the chicken, plenty of gravy, put 
on the top crust same thickness, cutting two or three small 
places in the center for steam to escape; bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Wash Boone. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Prepare chicken, season with salt and pepper, boil until 
tender, then bone. For crust : 1 quart of flour, 1 teaspoonful 
of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of shortening (2 of lard, 1 of butter), 
1 teaspoon even full of soda, all thoroughly mixed through 
the flour; then add sour milk enough to make a dough, roll 
out, place in pan by covering all over, then place in a layer of 
chicken, salt, pepper, butter, with squares of the dough rolled 
thin. So on until your pan is full, then add the gravy the 
chicken was cooked in, keeping some back as needed to fill in. 
Cover with a top crust, bake three-fourths of an hour. 

M. E. Black. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil chicken until very tender (salt when two-thirds 
done) ; remove the bones. Sauce for pie: 2 or 3 tablespoons of 
butter, melted, to which add 3 tablespoons flour, a little pepper, 
and mix well, then add 1 cup warm broth, 4 cups boiling broth 



22 

and i cup of cream or milk. Put chicken and broth in baking 
dish and heat in oven ; then prepare crust of 2 cups flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons 
shortening. Stir into the flour one egg well beaten, and one 
cup of milk. Spread on top of chicken and bake quickly. 

Elizabeth Winders. 

BAKED HEART. 

Split the heart on one side and soak in salt and water 2 
or 3 hours or over night. Make a dressing of 2 quarts of bread 
crumbs, a large tablespoonful of butter, 1 egg, salt, pepper and 
sage to taste, soften it with milk or water, fill the heart with 
the dressing, place in a pan with water to keep from sticking 
or burning and bake in a moderate oven 3 hours. 

. Mrs. Wm. McHard. 

PRESSED MEAT. 

Prepare beef as for pressed meat. Take dressing made as 
for stuffing fowl, have it rich and moist, add in alternate lay- 
ers with meat and press well. Rosa Dool. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cook sweetbreads until tender in water enough to cover 
them, make a brown sauce by frying a sliced onion or potato 
in a heaping tablespoonful of butter, remove onion and brown 
a heaping tablespoonful of flour in the butter, add liquor in 
which sweetbreads were boiled, season well, then add sliced 
sweetbreads and one-half can of French button mushrooms, 
when heated through pour over delicately browned toast omit- 
ting the sweetbreads. The sauce and mushrooms may be serv- 
ed with broiled steak. M. O. McKinney. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. 

Slice onions thin and drop in cold water, put steak in pan 
with a little suet, skim out the onions and add to steak, season 



23 

with pepper and salt, cover tightly. When the juice of the 
onions has dried up and meat browned on one side, remove 
onions, turn steak, replace onions, and fry till done, being 
careful not to burn. Mrs. W. H. Morrison. 

BAKED HAM. 

Trim ham as you wish for slicing and place in baking 
pan, cover the top of ham entirely with a stiff paste of flour 
and water or bread dough, have it one and one-half inches 
thick on ham, put on the cover and bake in a moderate oven 
from 3 to 4 hours; when ready to use remove the bread cover 
and slice. Mrs. W. C. Galloway. 

BOILED HAM. 

Take a medium sized ham, wash in warm water and 
scrape clean, put in the boiler with cold water to cover it, heat 
to the boiling point, simmer 3 and one-half to 4 hours, be sure 
to keep the water to a low boiling point and do not allow it to 
get much above it. The ham should be turned once or twice, 
test with a fork and when tender remove to the back of the 
stove and let stand till partly cooled, trim nicely and slice in 
very thin slices. When the ham is put in the water put in one- 
half dozen cloves and pieces of red pepper if you like. 

Mrs. Chas. W. Detwiler. 

BEEF OR VEAL LOAF. 

Three and one-half pounds of veal or round steak, 1 cup 
rolled crackers, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoon pepper, 1 tablespoon salt, butter the size of an egg. Chop 
the veal or beef fine, add the other ingredients and mix thor- 
oughly, bake in well buttered pan three and one-half hours. 

Mrs. Mattie Gillespie. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds raw veal, 1 heaping teaspoon salt, piece of 



24 

butter size of an egg, i teaspoon ful of pepper, 2 raw eggs. 
Chop the veal fine, mix all together with about 2 tablespoons 
of water, mold this into a loaf, roll it in eight tablespoonfuls 
rolled crackers, pour over it three tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, place in a pan and bake two hours, slice when cold. 

Nona Roberts. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Chop fine 3 pounds veal, chop fine three-fourths pound 
salt pork, roll one dozen square crackers, put half of them in 
the veal with two eggs, season if needed with pepper and salt, 
mix all together, make in a solid form, then take the crackers 
that are left and spread smoothly over the outside, bake one 
hour, slice when cold. 

Mrs. J. \Y. Haughey, Wellington, Kan. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Four pounds of beef chopped or ground, 3 eggs well beat- 
en, 8 soda crackers finely pulverized, butter the size of an egg, 
1 small tablespoon of pepper, 1 small tablespoon of salt, 1 table- 
spoon of milk, sage, celery or nutmeg if desired. Work all 
together for 10 or 15 minutes as you would a loaf of bread, 
form into a loaf about 2 inches in thickness, bake 1 and one- 
half hours, keep water in the pan to prevent burning, baste 
often. S. C. Frew. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds beef chopped fine, 3 large square crackers 
crumbled fine, one beaten egg, pepper and salt, stir all togeth- 
er, form into a loaf and put into pan with plenty of butter, 
bake about one-half hour. Mrs. Ringdall. 

BEEF BALLS. 

Take cold roast beef and with it mince an onion, add 
grated crackers, season with pepper and salt, mix all together, 



25 

and moisten with an egg, roll in balls and flour, fry in drip- 
pings a dark brown. Mrs. N. H. Morrison. 

VEAL SOUFFLEE. 

Two pounds ground veal or one and one-half pound of 
veal and one and one-half pound of fresh pork, one and one- 
half cup cracker crumbs, yolks of 3 eggs, one-half cup milk, 
2 tablespoons melted butter, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
salt, one-half teaspoonful pepper or a little cayenne, one small 
onion chopped fine, one-fourth teaspoonful nutmeg. Lastly, beat 
whites of eggs stiff and add. Put in greased pan, cover tight- 
ly and steam two and one-half (2 1-2) hours. Put greased 
paper in bottom of pan. Sauce : Two tablespoonfuls butter, 
one tablespoonful flour, yolk of 1 egg, 2 cups milk, season. 

Mrs. Edward L. Wolff. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

One tablespoon butter, two heaping tablespoons flour, one 
pint milk. Cream above and cook until thick, then add 1 pint 
of chopped veal. Set out and cool, then mould in cone shapes, 
roll in cracker or bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. Garnish 
with parsley and serve with or without tomato sauce. 

TQMATO SAUCE:. 

Canned tomatoes, small onion, chopped fine. Thicken 
very little with flour. Cook, strain and serve hot. 

Mrs. F. A. Guthrie, LaSalle, 111. 

POT ROAST. 

Have an iron pot or granite kettle very hot and sear the 
meat on all sides but do not stick a fork or knife in it, turn it 
by lifting. When it is all seared pour in one and one-half pints 
of boiling water and let it cook slowly one and one-half hours. 
Do not let it stop boiling, add hot water as needed. Turn the 
meat when about half done. Salt and pepper to suit taste. 



26 

Let the liquor simmer down and brown, then add flour and 
make a thickened gravy. Mrs. W. D. Emerson. 

DROP DUMPLINGS. 

One pint flour, one teaspoon each salt and baking powder, 
I level tablespoon lard, mix very soft with either milk or water. 
Mould out in little dumplings and lay on top of gently boiling 
meat (or meat and potatoes). Leave uncovered until they 
have puffed up until they are twice their natural size (which 
usually requires about five minutes), replace the cover and cook 
for fifteen minutes. Try this and your dumplings will never 
fall or be soggy. Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

RARE ROAST BEEF. 

Take a 5 or 6 pound roast, rub with salt and dredge with 
flour, put in a greased pan without cover and roast rapidly so 
the juice will not run. Baste occasionally with the drippings 
and turn when half done, but do not pierce with a fork. Do 
not add any water unless the drippings are going to scorch, 
then put in a few spoonfuls at a time. Allow 15 minutes to 
the pound or one and one-half hours for a roast of this size. 

Mrs. W. D. Emerson. 

CHICKEN MOUSSE. 

One cup chopped chicken, one cup chicken stock, one cup 
whipped cream, 3 eggs beaten separately, one tablespoon minute 
gelatine. Celery salt, pepper and salt to taste. Put into a 
mould and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Bess Bassett. 

GERMAN KLOPES. 

Take cold boiled beef and grind it fine, beat the whites of 
two eggs very stiff, add to meat and make into little balls. 
Have ready a kettle with boiling water. Drop balls in, as soon 



27 

as they come to the top lift out on platter and have a white 
sauce ready to pour over them. 

SAUCE FOR GERMAN KLOPES. 

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, one pint 
milk. Boil until thick. Mrs. Harry Walter. 

DRIED BEEF. 

One-half pound dried beef, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one-half pint of milk, one tablespoon ful flour, one egg. Put 
the butter in the frying pan and add the beef. Fry until 
brown, then add the milk; cream the flour with a little cold 
milk, then stir it in. Add one egg. Serve on toast. 

Pearl Love. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Take as many veal cutlets or chops as desired. Dip each 
piece in egg seasoned with salt and pepper , then roll in bread 
or cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard until done. 

Mrs. Edward L. Wolff. 

DRESSING FOR FOWLS. 

Take dry bread, break into small pieces and pour warm 
water over. As soon as all is soaked, press between the hands, 
place in another dish. To a quart of soaked bread add salt 
and pepper, one beaten egg, one-half pint of oysters, one- 
fourth pound of pork sausage, and fat from the fowl cut into 
small pieces. Mrs. Stella L. Guthrie. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Cook one and one-half pints of large chestnuts in boiling 
water until tender. Shell and press through a vegetable ricer. 
Season with two rounding tablespoons of butter, a salt spoon 
of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt and 4 tablespoons of cream. 
Now add a cup of fine cracker crumbs and one-fourth cup of 
melted butter. Never put poultry seasoning or sweet herbs in- 
to a chestnut dressing. Mrs. Sarah Blee Cooke. 



28 

STUFFINGS. 

VEAL STUFFING. 

Three cups stale bread crumbs, three onions chopped fine, 
one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon white pepper, two table- 
spoons chopped parsley, one-half cup melted butter or suet. * 

STUFFING FOR PORK. 

Two onions parboiled and chopped, two cups fine bread 
crumbs, two tablespoons powdered sage, two tablespoons melt- 
ed butter or pork fat. Salt and pepper to taste. * * 

STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. 

Two chopped onions, two cups mashed potatoes, one cup 
bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter and powdered sage to taste. 

CHESTNUT FILLING FOR TURKEY. 

Roast about 30 chestnuts ; peel, removing inner husk also. 
Take ten of these with the liver and pound well; add a little 
minced parsley, a sliver of onion, salt and pepper, the yolks of 
2 eggs. Put this into the crop and sew up. Fry until half 
done 5 or 6 links of small sausage and cut into inch lengths; 
add a cup of bread crumbs (more if turkey is large), a large 
spoonful of butter, pepper and salt ; then add remaining chest- 
nuts whole, and fill the body. Mrs. Rose Church. 



29 



VEGETABLES. 



"Herbs, and other country messes, 

Which the neat-handed Phyllis dresses." — Milton. 

Turnips should be peeled and boiled from 40 minutes to 
an hour. 

Beets, boil from 1 to 2 hours. 

Spinach, boil 20 minutes. 

Parsnips, boil from 20 to 30 minutes. 

Onions, best boiled in two or three waters, adding milk 
the last time. 

String beans should be boiled one and one-half hours. 

Shell beans require an hour. 

Green corn, boil 30 minutes. 

Green peas should be boiled in as little water as possible 
for 20 minutes. 

Asparagus, same as peas. 

Winter squash, cut in pieces and boil 20 to 40 minutes in 
small quantity of water; when done press water out, mash 
smooth, season with butter, salt and pepper, and cream. * 

SACKED POTATOES. 

Select for baking potatoes as near of a size as possible, 
when baked cut off one end, scrape out the inside with a spoon, 
being careful not to break skins, add to the potatoes butter, 
salt and sufficient hot milk to make quite soft, fill skins with 
this and place on end in buttered pan and bake until brown on 
top. The potatoes will puff up considerably if well beaten; 
nice for breakfast or tea. Mrs. M. E. Wharton. 

C. B. Edwards. 



30 
ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Two large potatoes sliced thin, rolled crackers. Place a 
layer of the crackers, then of the potatoes, a piece of butter 
size of a small hen egg, salt and pepper. A! bake dish is best 
to escallop them in. Cover the potatoes with boiling water. 
Bake 30 minutes. Nannie Foote. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Pare and slice potatoes thin as for frying. Place a layer 
an inch thick in a pudding dish, season with salt, pepper and 
bits of butter, add another layer of potatoes and seasoning, 
and so on, until the dish is almost full, cover with sweet milk 
and bake one and one-fourth hours. 

Mrs. C. K. Marquis. 

Mrs. Anna McWhorter. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Slice as many potatoes as desired, very thin, let stand in 
ice water several hours, remove from the water, dry with a 
cloth, have lard and drippings hot, fry a light brown, remove 
from the grease, sprinkle lightly with salt and lay on paper to 
absorb the drippings. Mrs. S. Marquis. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Pick over carefully 2 pints of beans and let them soak 
over night, in the morning drain off the water and put in an 
earthen bean pot (one with a cover is best), 1 tablespoonful of 
molasses and a piece of salt pork four or five inches square, 
cover with hot water and bake six hours or longer. The more 
they are baked the better. Add water as needed. Care should 
be taken and not get too much water or they will be sloppy 
when done. If for Sunday morning breakfast bake the day 
before and warm in the morning. If you think the beans are 
old, boil about 15 minutes with a little soda in the water. If 



31 

pork isn't salt enough to season them add a little more salt. 
This is enough for six. Mrs. F. L. Moses. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Take one quart of white beans, pick them over the night 
before, put to soak in cold water; in the morning put them in 
fresh water and let them scald, then turn off the water and put 
on more, hot, salt and boil slowly until soft, then add \ table- 
spoonful of molasses, one-third of a teaspoon ful of soda and a 
lump of butter, stir in well, put in a deep pan, bake I and one- 
half hours. Margaret E. Weidling. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Six ears of corn (cut the top of the grains off with a 
grater, then scrape with a knife), four well beaten eggs, one- 
half teacup cream or milk, pepper and salt and a little flour. 
If corn is good, will not need the flour. Fry in butter. 

Lizzie P. McCrea. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Eight ears corn (split down each row of grains with a 
sharp knife, scrape out pulp), add 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sweet cream, one-half cup flour, pepper and salt to taste, tea- 
spoonful baking powder, drop in plenty of hot lard and butter. 

Mrs. R. H. Boyd. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Like potatoes, and in fact almost all roots and tubers, 
beets are much sweeter baked than when prepared in any other 
way. By this method of cooking all the juices are retained 
The baking should be performed slowly and carefully. Several 
hours are usually required. Mrs. C. W. Dryden. 

EGG PLANT. 

Slice the plant one-half inch thick, sprinkle with salt, 
place layer upon layer, let stand 15 minutes, then dip in a 



32 

batter and fry in butter or lard. Another good way is to dip 
in egg and roll in crushed crackers, and fry same way. 

Mrs. S. Adams. 

A NICE WAY FOR COOKING TOMATOES. 

Pare nice, ripe tomatoes, slice in a kettle and add a little 
ginger, mustard, pepper and butter. Use all these to suit the 
amount used and the taste. Mrs. S. L. Chaplin. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH CHEESE. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces and stew until ten- 
der. Into a pan put a layer of the macaroni, then a layer of 
grated cheese, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add some small 
slices of butter. Repeat the layers till the desired amount is 
prepared. Pour enough milk into the pan so that when cook- 
ing it will cover the macaroni. Bake like pudding. 

Mrs. C. K. Marquis. 
Mrs. A. A. Rice. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Two cans tomatoes for a large pan. Fill pan same as 
for escalloped oysters, using plenty of milk and butter. 

Carrie Jobes. 

COLD SLAW WITH COOKED DRESSING. 

One teacupful of vinegar — part water, I tablespoonful 
butter, i tablespoonful flour, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, pepper 
and salt ; cook ; pour over chopped cabbage while hot. Cover 
closely and eat cold. Bessie L. Watson. 

COLD SLAW. 

One gallon of cabbage chopped fine, 1 pint rich, sweet 
cream, 1 lump butter size of hen egg, three eggs, 1 pint vine- 
gar, pepper and salt. First beat the eggs well, then mix cream 
with eggs. Stir the vinegar with the eggs and cream, then 



33 

place this mixture with the butter in a kettle and cook it until 
it becomes thick, pour this dressing over the cabbage. 

M. J. Harris. 

COLD CREAM SLAW. 

To a medium sized head of cabbage (cut fine) add I heap- 
ing teaspoonful salt, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, and pound well 
with wooden masher ; then take 1 cupful vinegar, one-half cup- 
ful thick, sour cream, pour over, stir quickly until light and 
turn into a dish, and sift pepper on top. 

Mrs. Ainna McWhorter. 

CORN PATTIES. 

Hi 

To one can of corn add 1 well beaten Qgg, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and enough flour to thicken, so as to drop from 
spoon ; stir thoroughly and fry in hot lard and butter until 
brown and ready to turn. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Chas. E. Duvall. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste, add a little 
parsley and three tablespoons minced tongue; roll the mixture 
into small balls, cover with Qgg and bread crumbs, fry two 
minutes. Other kinds of meat may be used. * * * 

GLACED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and pare six medium sized sweet potatoes. Cook 
thirty minutes in boiling water; drain, cut in halves length- 
wise and put in buttered pan. Make a syrup by boiling three 
minutes, one-half cup of sugar and four tablespoons water; 
add one tablespoon butter. Brush potatoes with syrup and 
bake fifteen minutes, basting twice with remaining syrup. 

Domestic Science School. 

ASPARAGUS SOUFFLE. 

Peel and skin two inches up from the bottom of a bunch of 



34 

asparagus, cut asparagus up and boil tender in salt water. 
Beat four eggs very light, add one tablespoon of soft butter, 
one salt spoon of salt and a little pepper. Whip in asparagus 
drained, and bake in quick oven. * * * 

VEGETABLE LOAF. 

Chop a cold carrot or two, one small onion, grated, and 
some raw potatoes, enough of all together to fill a large cup. 
Put one small cup of flour into a pan with one-half cup of 
olive oil. Mix well, place over the fire and stir until well 
browned. A<dd two small cups of water and stir until smooth 
and cooked. Remove from the fire, add salt and pepper to 
taste, and the cup of chopped vegetables. Put two-thirds of 
it into an unbuttered baking dish and spread the mixture 
around the bottom and half way up the sides to form a thick 
crust. Have ready an ordinary dressing such as you would 
use for turkey. Pour this into baking dish and cover by 
spreading the other third of the mixture over top. Bake 
about forty-five minutes. Mrs. A. K. Philleo. 

CORN CUSTARD. 

One can of corn, one and one-half cups of milk, one ta- 
blespoon ful corn starch, one tablespoon ful butter, one table- 
spoonful sugar, pinch of salt, three eggs, whites beaten separ- 
ately and stirred in last. Serve with meat course. 

Mabel Clara Miller. 
Lizzie McCrea. 

PILAFF. 

Cook one quart of tomatoes and one bunch of celery in 
two quarts of beef broth until the celery is tender. Strain. 
Pour part of the broth over one cupful of rice which has been 
soaked over night and salted. Cook until the rice is tender, 
stirring frequently and adding the rest of the broth. 

Mabel Bigelow Ramsey. 



35 
POTATO PUFF. 

Two cups cold mashed potatoes, stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one-half teacup of milk, two beaten eggs. 
Season w r ith cayenne pepper, and salt. Beat all to a cream. 
Drop large spoonful into a well buttered tin. Brown in hot 
oven. Mrs. W. N. Boyer. 

CREAMED CARROTS. 

Wash and scrape six or seven medium sized carrots. 
Boil until tender, cut into small pieces, season with salt and 
pepper, very little sugar. Sprinkle lightly with flour and 
pour over them a rich cream in which fresh parsley has been 
minced; then let them come to a boil and serve hot. They 
are both pleasing to the eye and delicious to the taste. 

May I. Whitham. 

MASHED POTATOES, (warmed over). 

To two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes add a half cupful 
of milk, a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and two eggs thoroughly beaten. Mix the 
whole until very light, then put into a vegetable dish, spread 
a little butter over the top and bake a golden brown. 

May I. Whitham. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One cup mashed potatoes, i cup sweet milk, i egg, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, flour to mix soft. Roll and cut in 
strips the size of finger and fry as you would doughnuts. Eat 
warm with butter and syrup. Mrs. Flora Reed. 

CREAM SALSIFY. 

Scrape and wash the salsify, slice thin and stew in water 
until tender. Season with salt, pepper and butter and thicken 
slightly with flour mixed smooth in milk. 

Mrs. Bessie Xelson. 



36 
ESCALLOPED ONIONS. 

For three persons, peel and boil three good sized onions; 
when tender chop and place in baking dish with alternate 
layers of bread crumbs; season with butter, pepper and salt 
and moisten thoroughly with milk; bake. * * * 

STUFFING FOR TOMATOES, GREEN PEPPERS, ETC. 

One cup dry bread crumbs, one-third teaspoon salt, one- 
fourth teaspoon pepper, i teaspoon onion juice, i tablespoon 
chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Hominy, rice 
or other cooked cereal may take the place of crumbs. 

Leota Grace Guthrie. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Remove cores from sound apples, stand them in baking 
dish and fill space from which cores were taken with sugar; 
put a slice of lemon on the top of each apple; add enough 
water to come about one-third the way up on apples and bake 
until done. Mix 1 tablespoon butter with 4 of sugar until 
light. Dish the apples and turn the hot sauce from baking 
dish into butter and sugar. Cook for a few minutes to a syr- 
up, add 1 teaspoon vanilla and pour over apples. 

Mrs. Rose Church. 



37 



SALADS and SALAD DRESSINGS 

"To make a perfect salad there should be a spendthrift for oil, a 
miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the in- 
gredients up and mix them well together." — Spanish Proverb. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

For a pound can or a solid pint of oysters use the follow- 
ing- dressing : Beat 2 eggs, add one- fourth cup each of cream 
and vinegar, one-half teaspoonful each of mustard, celery salt 
and salt, a dust of cayenne, 1 tablespoonful butter, put into 
double boiler and cook like soft custard, parboil the oysters, 
drain then and add the dressing. Set away to cool until serv- 
ing time. Mrs. J. F. Henderson. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take a can of lobsters and pick the meat in bits, (not too 
fine), saving the coral separate for garnishing. Cut up a head 
of lettuce in large pieces, place in a dish over which lay the 
lobster, putting the coral around the outside. For dressing, 
take the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, add 3 teaspoonfuls salad 
oil, dropping slowly, beating all the time, then a salt spoonful 
of salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful mixed mustard, vinegar to taste. 
Pour this over the lobster, and serve. 

Alice Jay Collier, Chattanooga, Tenn. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can of salmon, one quart of finely chopped cabbage, 
2 heads of celery chopped fine, 3 hard boiled eggs cut fine, 4 
small cucumbers, cut fine, vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, 1 
tablespoonful prepared mustard or 2 tablespoonfuls Durkee's 
salad dressing. Sara C. Ramsey. 

SAUCE FOR SALMON. 

One cupful milk heated to a boil, thicken with level table- 



38 

spoonful of corn starch wet with a little milk or water, add 
liquor from salmon, and a large spoonful of butter. Have 
one egg beaten very light. Add the egg and pepper to taste, 
take from fire and let stand in boiling water three minutes, 
covered. Then add juice of i small lemon, mix well and turn 
out immediately. Pour all over and around the salmon, on 
a deep platter. Mrs. Clara D. Butler. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can of shrimps, one-third can of French kidney beans, 
I stalk of celery. Rinse shrimps in cold water, cut into small 
pieces and let stand in weak vinegar for two hours, drain, add 
chopped celery, place a large spoonful with a row of the 
beans around it in a crisp lettuce leaf, serve very cold with a 
spoonful of mayonnaise. Mary O. McKinney. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cook i chicken until it parts from the bones easily. 
When cold cut into small bits, adding 4 heads of crisp celery 
chopped fine, also the grated root. Prepare a dressing thus : 
Rub the yolks of 4 eggs (boiled hard) smooth, adding 2 tea- 
spoonfuls prepared mustard, the liquor the fowl is boiled in, 
the juice of two lemons, one-half cupful of vinegar, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 2 generous tablespoonfuls melted butter 
(or oil), yolk of 1 raw egg cooked with a little hot vinegar, 
salt, white pepper, to taste, whites of 2 eggs chopped fine. 
Shortly before serving pour over the whole two-thirds cupful 
sweet cream. Garnish with lettuce or celery. 

Mrs. J. T. Mardock. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil one good sized chicken tender. Then take one- 
third small head of cabbage, 3 hard boiled eggs and chop all 
fine. Mix with them 1 wineglass vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 



39 

melted butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of mustard; salt and pepper to 
taste. Mrs. Emma Boyd. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Three potatoes, 6 hard boiled eggs, 1 onion. Chop sepa- 
rately. 

DRESSING. 

One egg, 1 tablespoonful of flour, same of butter, same of 
mustard, one-half cup of sour cream, scant cup of vinegar; put 
on the stove and let it come to a boil, then pour over the above ; 
season to taste with pepper and salt. 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

Mrs. Aaron Patterson. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Beat together 1 pint mashed potatoes and yolks of three 
hard boiled eggs, mix 1 onion well chopped up with this, sea- 
son to taste, heat one-half pint vinegar, add 1 teaspoonful of 
mustard and pour over the salad. Cut the whites in strips and 
place on top. Mrs. Dora Thompson. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cold boiled potatoes sliced thin, a little onion if liked, 
yolks of 2 eggs, beaten with 2 tablespoonfuls of French mus- 
tard, one-fourth cupful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful salt, pepper 
and sugar to suit taste. Heat these ingredients until eggs are 
cooked and while hot whip in the white of eggs beaten stiff. 
When cold add cream (sweet or sour) until dressing is as thin 
as liked and pour over potatoes. Mrs. J. G. Sexton. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop the cabbage fine, sprinkle with salt, beat 1 egg thor- 
oughly and add one-half pint boiling vinegar. Rub 1 table- 
spoonful mustard into enough vinegar to form a smooth paste, 
then add this to the boiling vinegar ; pepper and sugar to taste. 
Let all come to a boil and pour over the cabbage, stirring thor- 
oughly. Mrs. Frank Irvin. 



40 
CABBAGE SALAD. 

Medium sized head of cabbage, one-half cup of sugar, 2 
eggs, 1 cup vinegar, piece of butter the size of a hickory nut. 
Let it boil till thick, then pour over cabbage. 

Carrie Jobes Sexton. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One cup vinegar, one-half cup butter, heat to boiling 
point ; yolks of 6 eggs, three- fourths cup of sugar. Beat eggs 
and sugar together and season with salt and mustard. While 
vinegar is boiling pour over eggs and stir constantly, then boil 
until thick. Thin with either sour or sweet cream. 

Mrs. !Ed Arterburn. 
Mrs. W. H. Philleo. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, 1 tablespoonful mustard, 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour mixed together, pinch of salt, glass of 
vinegar, juice of 1 lemon. Boil until it thickens and w r hen 
cold, thin with sweet cream. Ora B. Myrtz. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of 
cream, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard. Beat the eggs, then add 
the sugar, salt, mustard, vinegar and cream ; boil in a basin of 
hot water until thick. Mrs. Wm. N. Graham. 

LETTUCE DRESSING. 

Yolks 2 hard boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sweet cream, 1 
^teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 teaspoonful mustard, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, rub together. Let stand five min- 
utes, then add vinegar. Pour over lettuce cold. 

Lizzie P. McCrea. 



41 
SALAD DRESSING. 

Three eggs, beaten, 4 tablespoon fuls of vinegar, a little 
butter, level tablespoonful sugar, teaspoonful mustard, pinch 
of salt, same of cayenne pepper. Cook in double boiler, add 
1 and one-half cups of cream when cold. Mrs. John Duff. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup of vinegar or a little more, salt and sugar to 
taste; yolks of 5 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 teaspoonful 
of mustard mixed in a little water ; juice of 1 lemon. Cook all 
together in a double boiler except the lemon juice, add it last- 
ly. Will keep for a month. Thin with sweet cream when 
ready for use. Carrie Canum. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One pint of vinegar and lump of butter scalded, beat 2 
whole eggs or yolks of 4, one-half cup of sugar and 1 cup of 

milk or one-half cup of cream (very light) and add 2 teaspoon- 

fuls of mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Add this to the 

vinegar and butter and cook until it thickens. 

Ruth A. Lee. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Three-fourths pint of vinegar, one-fourth cupful sugar, 
one-fourth cupful butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Put 
on to boil in double kettle. Beat yolks of six eggs and add to 
this one-half cup of milk and 1 heaping teaspoonful of mus- 
tard. Stir all into boiling vinegar until of the consistency of 
thick cream. Remove from fire and beat till cool. This will 
keep for weeks. Mary O. McKinney. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Four large oranges, 1 can of pineapple (the fresh pineap- 
ple will do) chopped fine, 6 bananas (sliced), one-half cupful 
of hickory nuts, 1 cupful of sugar. Dissolve three-fourths 
box Plymouth Rock gelatine, add one-half cup sugar, pour 



42 

over the fruit and set in a cool place for a few hours before 
serving. Olive Willits Cawthron. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Take 3 oranges, 3 bananas, 1 pineapple, 1 quart of straw- 
berries. Put a layer of pineapple cut up in small bits in the 
bottom of dish and sprinkle with sugar; then put a layer of 
bananas, one of oranges and lastly one of strawberries, taking 
care to sprinkle sugar over each layer. Delicious. To be eat- 
en with cake. Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One dozen oranges, 1 dozen bananas, 1 pound white 
grapes, one-half box gelatine. Peel and slice bananas in dish 
and sprinkle with sugar; peel oranges and cut in small squares; 
removing the seed, and sprinkle with sugar. Cut grapes in 
small pieces, removing the seed and sprinkle with sugar. Soak 
the gelatine in one pint of cold water, add one pint of sugar, 
one and one-half pints boiling water, mix fruits all together 
and pour gelatine over. Let it harden on ice until ready to 
serve. This makes one gallon of salad. 

Mrs. Theresa Dool. 

FRUI f SALAD. 

Six oranges pared and cut in small pieces, 6 bananas cut 
in small pieces, 1 can pineapple cut fine and add juice, two 
cupfuls of sugar, one box phosphate gelatine soaked in one- 
half cup cold water. After it is soaked add one pint boiling 
water, mix sugar with fruit, then pour over all the gelatine, 
mix well and put in mould and set away to form. 

Mrs. Joseph Boyd. 

Sara C. Ramsey. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Twelve oranges, four lemons, one cup sugar, 1 box Ply- 



43 

mouth Rock gelatine dissolved in I cup cold water. Cut 
oranges in half, shred fine with a silver fork, taking out all 
seeds, add juice of lemons and sugar then a cup of hot water 
to the dissolved gelatine, stir all the mixture together and set 
on ice until stiff. Half of this recipe is enough for 12 or 15 
persons. Mrs. F. A. Wolff. 

HOLLANDAISE DRESSING FOR SALAD OR TOMATOES. 

One-half cup butter, yolks of 2 eggs, juice of one-half 
lemon, 1 salt spoon salt, one- fourth salt spoon cayenne pepper, 
one-half cup boiling water. Rub butter to cream, add yolks 
1 at a time, then add lemon, salt and pepper, add water about 
5 minutes before using, place the bowl in hot water until it 
thickens. Mrs. Clarance Brock Dickerson. 

Mrs. Sue C. Bassett. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One lb. can salmon, 8 eggs boiled one-half hour, yolks 2 
raw eggs, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 1 cup vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful French mustard, juice 2 lemons, 
white pepper to taste. Pour off liquor, pick bones from salmon 
and break slightly with fork, squeeze lemon juice over salmon, 
chop whites of eggs fine, add to them as much celery or lettuce 
cut fine as will equal bulk of salmon. 

DRESSING. 

Pulverize yolks of hard boiled eggs, add the raw yolks, 
melted butter, salt, pepper and mustard, then liquor from sal- 
mon, lastly the vinegar. Stir Avell after adding each ingredi- 
ent, add chopped whites and celery, stir up with fork, pour 
dressing over and stir well together. Add more vinegar if you 
wish salad thinner. Mrs. O. J. Lorimer. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can shrimps, 2 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, 1 cup 



44 

chopped celery, one-half cup English walnuts. Mix with 
mayonnaise into which whipped cream has been stirred and 
serve very cold. Lobster may be used or shrimps and lobster 
mixed. Mrs. Don S. Prentiss. 

BEEF TONGUE SALAD. 

Boil one smoked beef tongue until thoroughly done. When 
cold grate it very fine. Then take the yolks of 4 hard boiled 
eggs, mash fine, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of the best olive oil 
to the eggs, and beat in well ; then add a dessertspoonful of salt, 
pepper to taste and about a quarter of pint of good vinegar; 
beat the dressing well. Just before time to serve, mix the 
dressing with the tongue. Mrs. Harry Walter. 

ADIRONDACK SALAD. 

One can peas, 5 cents worth cream cheese, one-half dozen 
small sweet cucumber pickles. Drain the juice from the peas, 
cut cheese and pickles in small pieces. Mix all together with 
any good salad dressing mixed with about half a cup of whip- 
ped cream. -Bess Bassett. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Boil one-half can of tomatoes, 6 cloves, a large slice onion, 
1 stalk celery and one-half teaspoonful salt for fifteen minutes, 
strain, and add to the strained pulp 2 tablespoons of vinegar 
and a speck of cayenne pepper. When boiling add 2 table- 
spoons of granulated gelatine, stir until gelatine is dissolved. 
Place 2 stuffed olives in each cup in which you intend to mould 
the jelly and pour over them the jelly and set on ice or in a 
cold place. When ready to serve invert each mold on a let- 
tuce leaf and pour a spoonful of salad dressing over each 
mould. - Bessie K. Bigelow. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Skin tomatoes carefully, cut off top and with a silver fork, 



45 

loosen the center of tomato so the dressing can go into the to- 
mato. Pour dressing over tomato which has been placed in a 
nest of lettuce. Mrs. Cora D. Pyles. 

AMERICAN BEAUTY SALAD. 

Slice tart apples, oranges, pineapple and celery in cups. 
Fill with sour lemon jelly, colored red. When perfectly firm 
turn out on lettuce leaves, press half a blanched English wal- 
nut on top and serve with mayonnaise mixed with plenty of 
whipped cream. Bess Bassett. 

NUT SALAD. 

Three cups English walnuts, i cup white grapes. Add 
cream dressing as follows : whites of 3 eggs and yolks of 3 
eggs well beaten, 1 and one-half teaspoons of butter. Mix 1 
and one-half tablespoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon of mustard and 
a dash of cayenne pepper, add to vinegar and eggs. Boil. 
When cold add one-half cup of whipped cream. 

Ruth Guthrie. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

About equal parts of tart apple and celery. English walnuts 
chopped coarsely. Add these in about the ratio of one-third to 
the celery and apples. Mix thoroughly and pour mayonnaise 
dressing over the whole. Serve in lettuce leaf. To make richer 
add a spoonful of whipped cream on top of each helping. 

Mrs. Cora D. Pyles. 

Mrs. Tillie Gregory. 

Nell M. Burrows. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One can cove oysters, 3 hard boiled eggs, as much cracker 
crumbs as eggs, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt and 
pepper, 1 egg, 8 tablespoons vinegar, put on stove, let thicken. 
Mix chopped oysters and eggs with cracker crumbs and pour 



46 

hot dressing over mixture. Lastly pour on liquid from oysters. 

Mary L. Conningham. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Scrape and cut into one-half inch pieces sufficient blanch- 
ed celery. Pick over and wash 50 large oysters, put in a sauce 
pan with one-fourth teaspoon of salt, a dash of pepper and 
shake over the fire until plumped. Drain and set aside until 
cold, then mix with celery and French dressing. Arrange in 
lettuce leaves. French dressing: Put in a bowl one-half tea- 
spoon of salt and white pepper, rub fork with garlic, add 4 
tablespoons olive oil, stir with fork, add 1 taBlespoonful of 
vinegar. Mix well and pour over salad. Nona Roberts. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart oysters, leaving out juice, chopped with six 
large pickles and whites of eight hard boiled eggs. Beat to a 
cream yolks with a large spoonful melted butter, mustard, 
pepper, salt and sugar to taste; add one-half cup vinegar and 
one-half cup cream. Mrs. Margaret Taylor. 

CHICKEN MAYONNAISE. 

Cover a platter with lettuce leaves and lay slices of cold 
boiled chicken, preferably white meat, on this, cover thickly 
with mayonnaise. Cut stuffed olives in halves and lay them 
on the mayonnaise. Mrs. Bessie Nelson. 

SUMMER SALAD. 

Slice peeled tomatoes and alternate with cucumber and 
chopped onion in a salad bowl lined with crisp lettuce leaves. 
Mayonnaise. * * * 

SUMMER SALAD. 

Garnish the number of plates desired with a lettuce leaf. 
Cut in large pieces, alternately, ripe tomato, celery, cucumber 
and onion, with mayonnaise dressing on top. No stirring or 
mixing of ingredients. Bertha Louise Wolff. 



47 
TOMATO ASPIC. 

Pulp ancksJuice of a large can of tomatoes. Season with 
salt, pepper and Onion juice. Stiffen with gelatine, using half 
a package for a quarts. v Mould in small cups. Serve on. let- 
tuce leaves with mayonnafse^ * * * 

BANANA AND CELERY SALAD. 

Six bananas, half a cup uf nut? cut hue and 2 stalks of 
celery. Mix with mayonnaise, fill the banana skins, chill and 
serve on lettuce leaves. ^%s* * * * 

MARGUERITE SALAD. 

Make a bed of lettuce leaves on each individual dish. 
Slice hard boiled eggs lengthwise and remove the yolks whole. 
Put a yolk in the center of each plate and arrange the white 
around it, cut in strips to resemble the petals of a marguerite. 
Mayonnaise. * * * 

HOT SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs, 1 tablespoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
2 teaspoonfuls mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 2 of 
sweet cream, 1 scant cup vinegar. Put all together and cook 
until it looks smooth like cream, stirring all the time. Pour 
hot on cabbage, lettuce or potatoes, sliced or chopped. 

Minnie Laird. 

ENDIVE SALAD. 

For two bunches of salad take off the dark leaves, cut the 
rest in small pieces splitting the stalk, lay in salt water for 
several hours to draw out the bitter taste. Boil 2 potatoes ; 
drain off the water, then mash with a fork, add salt, pepper, 
(celery and onion cut fine), then the salad and mayonnaise. 
Mrs. E. L. Schambra, Wheeling, W. Va. 

EGG SALAD. 

Take equal parts of hard boiled tgg, celery and onion. 
Salt to taste and mix with mayonnaise. Opal S. Wolff. 



48 



BREAD AND ROLLS. 

"Here is bread which strengthens man's heart, and therefore is 
called the siaff of life." — Matthew Henry. 

JUG YEAST. 

Six medium sized potatoes boiled and mashed, a handful 
of hops boiled in 2 quarts of water, strain and pour over the 
potatoes, add one-half cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of 
salt, when cold add one cupful of soft yeast or 2 cakes of hard 
yeast. Let stand near the stove for 24 hours, put away in a 
jug, corking tightly. Use two-thirds of a cup of this yeast for 
six loaves of bread. Ella J. McKee. 

BREAD. 

Take one-half cake of Yeast Foam and put it to soak in 
one-half pint of luke warm water. This should be done di- 
rectly after dinner in the winter season and about the middle 
of the afternoon in the summer season. Let it dissolve and in- 
to this beat enough flour to make a stiff batter ; let rise until ev- 
ening. Cook 2 good sized potatoes in one-half gallon of water. 
Take the potatoes out and mash fine and stir into the water re- 
maining in the kettle, adding enough water to make one-half 
gallon ; sift flour into a pan and into the center of the flour stir 
the potato water with 2 tablespoonfuls of salt; beat 15 min- 
utes, adding the small sponge ; cover with the flour and let rise 
over night ; knead in the morning and let rise, knead again and 
let rise, then mould into pans to rise and bake. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. This will make 4 or 5 loaves of bread. 

Mrs. L. W. Wright. 

RAISIN BREAD. 

Two cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful milk and water mixed, 1 cup- 



49 

ful shortening, i egg, i cupful yeast. Set at noon, knead at 
night, roll out in the morning, and stick with raisins ; make in- 
to loaves. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

The evening before baking scald with new milk 2 table- 
spoonfuls of meal, and set in a warm place. In the morning 
it should be light. Add 1 pint of luke warm water, a pinch of 
salt and a teaspoon ful of sugar, and flour enough to- make a 
batter. Place in a kettle of warm water to get light. Care 
should be taken to keep an even temperature and as warm as 
possible (not to scald). When light take one-third quart new 
milk, let it come to boiling point, sift in the crock 1 pint of 
flour, make opening in center, pour in boiling milk and stir till 
it begins to thicken, then add remainder of quart of milk and 
pour in the light batter. When light mix very soft with one- 
half teacupful of lard (melted). Make in 3 loaves and place 
in well greased pans. When light bake 45 minutes, then 
grease top with butter and return to oven for a few minutes. 

Mrs. Will Lair. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

In the morning fill a quart cup one-third full of luke warm 
water, add a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of sugar and flour 
enough to make the consistency of griddle cakes. Set the cup 
in a closed vessel half filled with water moderately hot (not 
scalding) and then keep temperature nearly even. This yeast 
ought to fill the cup in about 5 hours. Sift the flour into a 
pan, make an opening in center and pour in yeast. Have 
pitcher of milk and water salted, (not too hot or you will scald 
the yeast germs) pour in and stir rapidly into' a sponge, then 
cover closely and keep warm an hour, then knead into loaves, 
adding flour to make proper consistency ; place in well greased 
pans, cover closely and leave till light; bake in steady oven. 



50 

When done let steam escape, wrap in a damp towel, and keep 
in a closed jar. Mrs. G. W. Whan. 

RYE BREAD. 

One quart rye flour, three-fourths teacupful Orleans mo- 
lasses, scald at noon. In the evening stir in it I pint of sponge 
made of wheat flour. In the morning mix stifT with wheat 
flour. Let rise and put in pans. Salt in yeast. Bake. 

L. M. P. 

RYE BREAD. 

At night cook 3 or 4 potatoes, about the size of an Qgg, 
mash and beat well, scald 1 cupful of rye flour and beat free of 
lumps, add the potatoes and beat together, then add 1 quart of 
warm water and one-half cake of yeast well soaked, add 
enough rye flour to make the consistency of sponge as for wheat 
bread. In .the morning add to sponge one-half cupful Orleans 
molasses, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful lard or butter, 
and 1 teaspoonful caraway seed and enough rye flour to mix 
stiff. Caraway seed can be omitted if you wish. I raise mine 
once before shaping into loaves. Mrs. Sara C. Ramsey. 

RYE BREAD. 

Two potatoes grated and boil in about 3 pints of water 
until it thickens, 1 teacupful molasses. While still hot sift in 
rye flour until it gets as thick as you can stir it. When cool put 
in a cake of yeast and let it raise over night. When making it 
up in the morning take about one-third wheat flour. After it 
rises once make it out in pans and bake. Mrs. Ringdall. 

ENTIRE WHEAT FLOUR. 

One quart of warm water, entire wheat flour and one-half 
cake of yeast well dissolved in 1 cupful of water. Mix as stiff 
as can be stirred with a strong spoon and let rise over night. 
In the morning add 1 tablespoonful of salt and 2 of sugar, stir 



51 

in more flour and let rise; then mix as soft as can be handled 
and let rise again. Mould into loaves and when light bake in 
moderate oven. Mellie I. Eames. 

CORN BREAD. 

One large cupful sweet milk, one-fourth cupful butter, 2 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of salt. In thick- 
ening use 1 cupful of flour and 2 cupfuls of corn meal, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder should be well rubbed in the flour. 
Bake in common pie pan. This should bake in about 20 min- 
utes. Serve hot. Mrs. J. G. Sexton. 

CORN BREAD. 

One cupful of corn meal, one cupful of wheat flour, one 
cupful of sour cream, or one cupful of sweet milk with three 
tablespoon fuls of butter, one teaspoon ful of cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, one-half teacupful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two unbeaten eggs, and bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

DELICATE CORN BREAD. 

One pint of sour or sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda 
or baking powder, one tablespoonful of lard, a pinch of salt and 
stir in enough white meal to make a batter the consistency of 
sponge cake. Bake half hour or 20. minutes in quick oven. 

Mrs. May I. Whitham. 

CORN BREAD. 

One-half cup sugar, two eggs, one cup sweet milk, three 
teaspoons of baking powder, three-fourths cup corn meal, one 
pint of flour, teaspoon of salt. Mrs. H. Crosby. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint of buttermilk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter or sour 
cream, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 2 cups corn meal, 



52 

i cup of wheat flour, i teaspoon soda. Stir in the milk. 

Mrs.'S. J. Dool. 

RICE CORN BREAD. 

One pint of rice after it is well cooked, i pint of sour 
milk, 3 or 5 eggs (best with 5), 1 scant teaspoonful soda stirred 
in milk, mix very thin with good finejfcorn meal. Bake in 
quick oven. MwThos. Maddux. 

RAISED CORN PONK 

Take in the morning 3 pints corn meal. 1 tablespoonful 
salt, 2 tablespoonfuls molasses or sugar, scald with 3 pints 
boiling water, stirring well. At noorMdd one-half cake yeast 
prepared as for bread, let rise for se^al hours, then add one- 
half teaspoonful soda and 1 cupful Sour, stirring well. Bake 
in a well greased skillet in a moderately hot oven 2 or 3 hours. 
When browned, cover to prevent JBrning. Slice when cold 
and steam for breakfast. | Mrs. A^nne C. Dool. 

BOSTON BROWN7BREAD. 

One pint sour milk, 1 1 corn meal, 1 cupful graham 

flour, 1 cupful white flour. 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 
soda, one-half cupful mola^es. Jg^team 2 hours; bake 1 hour 
in 2 quart pan. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cupfuls corn meal, 2 cupfuTs flour, 1 cupful rye flour, 
1 cupful graham, 1 and three-fourths cupfuls molasses, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls soda, 1 cupful cold coffee, 1 cupful sweet milk, 1 
cupful sour milk that is Ju£t beginning to turn. The bakeries 
sometimes keep the mi:\edJftour ready for use. It is nice and 
less trouble. Mrs. F. L. Moses. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One heaping coffee cupful each of corn meal, rye and 
graham flour, sift together as well as possible and beat together 



53 

2 cupfuls of New Orleans or Porto Rico molasses, 2 cupfuls 
sweet milk, 1 cupful sour milk, 1 dessert spoonful soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt. Pour into tin form and steam 4 hours. The 
pan must not be full. Do not let water stop boiling. Before 
serving: set in the oven a short time to dry. J| 

Sara Q-. Ramsey. 

STEAM BROWN BREAD. 

One-half cup flour, 1 cup graham, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup 
sour milk, one-half cup sorghum, rounding teaspc niful soda, 
small pinch salt. Steam 2 and one-half hours. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, 2 -cups sour milk, 2 and 
one-half cups graham flour, 1 and one-rhalf cups corn meal, 
heaping teaspoonful soda, a little salt. Take large baking pow- 
der cans, grease well and fill a little more than half with the 
stiff batter, put on lids and steam 3 and one -half hours. The 
loaves will slip out of the cans while hot Mary Derr. 

SOUTHERN BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups graham flour, 2 cups corn meal, three-fourths 
cup molasses, 2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda and 1 table- 
spoon salt. If fruit is desired add a <&ip £>f<g^ell washed raisins. 
Steam 2 and one-half hours and set irlo^eipEi few minutes. 

% 'JUdie Rodger s. 

GRAHAM BREADV 

One quart graham flour, 1 pint sour milk, one-half pint 
New Orleans molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teacup seeded 
raisins. Bake in round bread pan$: Sufficient for 2 loaves. 
Bake 1 hour. / Jr Mrs. W. N. Boyer. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Make sponge as for white bread. Stir into your sponge 



54 

about one-third the amount of graham flour sifted that you 
will use of white flour to stiffen. Salt to taste and use enough 
sugar to sweeten slightly. Do not mix as stiff as for white 
bread, nor allow the loaves to become so light before baking. 

Bess Bassett. 

NUT BREAD. 

One quart of bread sponge, i cup of new milk, two-thirds 
cup of sugar, i heaping tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs well 
beaten, a little cinnamon, mix into a soft dough. Let rise un- 
til light, then work into this 1 cup of chopped nuts, English 
walnuts, hickory nuts or almonds. Let rise again and mould 
into 2 loaves. When light bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Zoe Emerson. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

One cup, well packed, of butter, one-half cup sugar, 2 and 
one-half cups flour. Cream butter and sugar. Take out a ta- 
blespoon of the flour and add a tablespoon of corn meal or 
rice flour in its place, then stir the whole amount into the but- 
ter and sugar. Work with hands until you can roll it out, 
then cut and mark the cakes with a spoon or fork round the 
edge and bake. Use very little flour in rolling out. 

Minota Bassett. 

SWEET RUSKS. 

Two cupfuls bread sponge, 1 small cup of sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful of lard, 1 egg. Beat sugar, egg, lard well together 
and add to sponge and stiffen. Mrs. Alta C. Marquis. 

MILK BISCUIT. 

One pint of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, 2 level tablespoonfuls butter, 1 
scant cup of milk. Mix flour, salt, baking powder and rub in 
the butter, add milk, roll, cut out, bake 15 minutes. 

Mrs. G. G. Weidling. 



55 
BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Into i quart of sifted flour, rub thoroughly with your 
hands 3 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. Then in the 
same manner rub in 1 heaping tablespoonful of butter or lard. 
After adding 1 teaspoonful of salt if lard is used, add milk or 
water sufficient to make a very soft dough. Roll and cut into 
small thick cakes and place at once into a very hot oven. 

Pearl Love. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Three cupfuls of sweet milk, 1 cupful of butter and lard 
mixed in equal proportions, one-half cupful yeast, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt. Add flour enough to make a stiff dough and let it 
rise over night. In the morning add 2 well beaten eggs ; knead 
well ; let it rise again and bake to a delicate brown in a quick 
oven. Jeannetta Robertson Miller. 

ROLLS. 

One quart of bread sponge, 1 cupful of new milk, one-half 
cupful of sugar, three-fourths of a cupful of butter. Mix to- 
gether and thicken with flour until it is like batter. Let rise 
till light, then stir in whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
mix up stiff and let rise; mould into rolls; let rise 20 minutes 
and bake in a quick oven. Laura E. Love. 

SWEET ROLLS. 

Two quarts of flour, work in a large spoonful of lard, one- 
half pint of milk boiled and cooled. Add to flour one-half cup- 
ful of yeast and a little sugar and mix to a thin batter. Let it 
rise 1 hour; work 20 minutes; let rise another hour; handle 
carefully and roll one-fourth inch thick; cut with round cut- 
ter ; wet one side ; sprinkle ground cinnamon between and turn 
over; let rise another hour and bake 15 minutes. 

Mrs. W. S. McCormick. 



56 
TEA BUNS. 

Boil i pint of cream and pour it over a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of lard and butter mixed; add i cupful of sugar. Let it 
stand until cool enough then add one-half cupful of yeast, a 
pinch of nutmeg and flour enough to make a stiff dough. Let 
it rise; roll out; cut into cakes; let it rise again and bake in a 
quick oven. Jennie Wakefield, Heyworth. 111. 

SWEET BISCUIT. 

One pint sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 large half 
cupful of butter. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder in flour 
sufficient to make a good dough. Roll a little thicker than 
cookies. Susie Guthrie. 

WATER BISCUIT. 

Sift with 2 cupfuls of flour 1 heaping teaspoonful of soda 
and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar two or three times, add 
two-thirds cupful of lard, mix, then 1 and one-half cupfuls 
water, one-half teaspoonful salt, add enough flour to make a 
soft dough, roll out and bake quickly. Mrs. E. S. Hunt. 



57 



BREAKFAST and OTHER DISHES. 

"And then to breakfast with what appetite you have." — Henry 
VIII. 

OATMEAL GEMS. 

Two cupfuls sour milk, 2 cupfuls oatmeal, 1 cupful flour, 
2 eggs, 1 tablespoon ful sugar, 1 teaspoon ful soda. Soak oat- 
meal over night. Bake in gem pans. Mrs. K. Candor. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

Soak over night 2 cups rolled oats in 1 and one-half cups 
sour milk; add one-half cup sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 2 eggs and 1 cup wheat flour. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Margaret Taylor. 

WHEATEN GEMS. 

Mix 1 teaspoon ful baking powder and a little salt into 1 
pint of flour. Add to the beaten yolks of 2 eggs 1 teacupful of 
sweet milk or cream, a piece of butter (melted) half the size of 
an egg, the flour with baking powder and salt mixed and well 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Beat well. Bake immediately in gem 
pans in a hot oven. Lottie Wright. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One pint of sour milk and cream mixed, 1 heaping table- 
spoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of soda ; thicken very stiff 
with fine graham flour. Have cast iron gem pans very hot; 
grease them and put the batter in. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mary C. Holmes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cupfuls graham flour, 1 egg, pinch of salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter or lard, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder and enough sweet milk to make a stiff batter. 
Bake in well greased gem pans. Bessie V. Sponsler. 



58 
POP OVERS. 



One cupful sweet milk, i cupful flour, i egg beaten sep- 
arately. Bake in gem pans. A very little sugar if desired and 
i teaspoonful baking powder. Mrs. Morey. 



POP OVERS. 

Three eggs beaten separately, i and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, i cupful sweet milk, i tablespoonful butter, i 
pint of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Ethel Graham Bigelow. 

POP OVERS. 

One cup flour, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, seven-eighths 
cup milk, 2 eggs, one-half teaspoonful melted butter. Mix 
salt and flour, add milk gradually. Add egg, beaten until light, 
and butter; beat 2 minutes, turn into hot buttered gem pans 
and bake thirty minutes in hot oven. Mrs. H. B. Allen. 

POP OVERS. 

Two cups flour, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 cup of 
cold water, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt. Bake 
in hot oven. Mrs. Robertson. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint of sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, 1 and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, flour. 

Mrs. Edward Dool. 

MUFFINS. 

Three eggs, 1 cupful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of melted 
butter, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Beat the eggs and mix with the milk ; put in the 
butter, sugar and flour enough to make a batter. Bake in 
round tins in a hot oven. Mabel Bigelow Ramsey. 



59 
MUFFINS. 

Two cups of flour, i cup of sweet milk, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, 2 eggs, butter the size of a green walnut, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Mrs. Whitsitt. 

MUFFINS. 

One-third cup butter, 1 egg, one-fourth cup sugar, three- 
fourths cup milk, 2 cups sifted flour, a little salt, 4 level tea- 
spoons baking powder. Put in heated greased pans. 

Opal S. Wolff. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

Beat 2 heaped tablespoonfuls butter and 4 of sugar to a 
cream. Add yolks of 3 eggs, then 2 cups of milk in which a 
teaspoon ful of soda has been dissolved. Sift 2 or 3 times 1 
and one-half cups flour and a liberal cup of corn meal, with 2 
even tablespoonfuls of cream of tartar. Add the mixture of 
butter, sugar, milk and eggs slowly to the dry ingredients stir- 
ring well, then add the beaten whites of 3 eggs. 

Mrs. D. N. Blazer. 

WAFFLES. 

Beat together 2 eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a 
level tablespoonful of sugar. Add three-fourths cupful of corn 
meal, 2 cupfuls of flour, 2 cupfuls of sour milk, 1 level table- 
spoonful of melted lard, 1 teaspoonful of dissolved soda and 1 
teaspoonful of baking powder. The batter should be a little 
thicker than for ordinary pancakes. Bake in a hot, well greas- 
ed waffle iron. Ruth Sickels. 

WAFFLES. 

Two eggs beaten separately, 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 tablespoonful of 
melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, flour enough 
to make a smooth batter. Bake in piping hot, well greased 
waffle irons. Mrs. J. R. McCrea. 



60 
CORN DODGERS. 

Mix with cold water into a soft dough i quart of corn 
meal, i teaspoonful of salt, 2 tablespoon fuls of butter. Mould 
into oval cakes with the hands and bake in a hot oven in a well 
greased pan. To be eaten hot. Mrs. E. D. Wade. 

SOUR MILK PANCAKES. 

Dissolve one-half teaspoonful of soda in 1 pint of sour 
milk; add 2 eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoonful of lard, salt to 
taste. Stir in enough flour to make a batter. Fry in butter 
and lard mixed. Mrs. Dora Thompson. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, 1 cupful of corn meal, one- 
half cupful of wheat flour, 1 cupful of buttermilk or 2 table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, one-half cupful of yeast or one-half com- 
pressed cake; add enough warm water to form a thin batter. 
Beat well and let it rise over night. In the morning dissolve 
one-half teaspoonful of soda in 2 tablespoon fuls of hot water 
and add this to the batter. Beat thoroughly and bake on hot 
griddle. Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

BUCKWHEAT PANCAKES. 

For about 1 quart of batter use one-half cup of yeast, mix 
buckwheat flour with corn meal in the proportion of three 
parts buckwheat to one of cornmeal, stirring together with 
hike warm water sufficient to make a rather thin batter, salt- 
ing to taste. Prepare this at night, in the morning put in 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls sugar and a little soda. Save a little to start next 
night. Mrs. Mary J. McManus. 

CRUMB-BATTER CAKE. 

Break up 6 slices of dry bread, pour a little hot water 
over them, then pass this through a colander; add the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, 1 scant cupful of flour in which 1 teaspoonful 



61 

of baking ponder has been sifted, a pinch of salt and a pint of 
milk; stir in the beaten whites of the eggs. If the batter is too 
thick add more milk. Bake on hot griddle. 

Mrs. Eveline Davison. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Sift together one-half cup graham and one-half cup wheat 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt, I and 
one-half tablespoons sugar, I Qgg beaten light, I and one-fourth 
cups milk and i tablespoon melted butter. Fry on hot griddle 
and serve with maple sugar. Mrs;\[. W. Murphy. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

To i quart sour milk add corn meal to make the consist- 
ency of wheat cakes, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half table- 
spoonful sugar, 2 eggs well beaten. Add one-half teaspoonful 
soda just before baking. Lydia Peterson. 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

One pint cold mashed potatoes, i cup sweet milk, 3 eggs, 
a little salt. Mix thoroughly; add 1 cup sifted flour in which 
a teaspoonful of baking powder has been placed ; beat well and 
drop from spoon on hot buttered griddle, fry a golden brown. 

Cora Beard. 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

Two-thirds cup cold mashed potatoes, one-third cup light 
bread crumbs soaked in water or milk, press water out. Mix 
potatoes and bread together with one-half teaspoonful baking 
powder and pinch of salt. Have griddle hot and w 7 ell buttered. 
Fry until a light brown, serve hot. Mrs. Low Brown. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One teaspoonful butter, one pint of flour, one salt spoon- 
ful of salt, two eggs, 2 cupfuls of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Rub butter into the flour and add salt. Beat 



62 

the yolks of the eggs light, then add the milk to them and when 
well beaten stir milk into the flour until quite smooth. Beat 
the whites light, add them, and lastly the baking powder, and 
bake on hot griddle. C. B. Edwards. 

BREAD BA^LS. 

Crumb stale bread fine and moisten well with warm milk 
or water; (if too moist press out with the hands), season with 
salt, pepper and sage, or any herb you prefer, and add butter, 
one egg. Fry after frying meat or put in pan after roasting 
meat. Mrs. C. Graham. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Take one can of corn, three eggs, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, one-half teaspoonful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder; thicken with flour 
and drop from spoon in skillet of hot lard or enough lard to 
fry a light brown. Mrs. W. C. Galloway. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter in the proportion of one cupful of sweet 
milk, two cupfuls of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, a little salt. Heat the milk a little more 
than milk warm, then add slowly to the beaten yolks, sugar, 
salt, then the flour into which has been sifted the baking pow- 
der and the butter rubbed, and the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Lastly add one quart of coarsely chopped tart apples, dipping 
the batter over them. Drop large spoonfuls into very hot lard 
and fry to a light brown ; skim out and drain. Serve with ma- 
ple syrup or syrup made of sugar. 

Mrs. Chas. \Y. Detwiler. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, i cup of milk, pinch of salt, I and one-half 



63 

teaspoons of baking powder, I cup of chopped apple, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. Drop by spoonfuls in hot lard 
and fry a nice brown. 

SAUCE. 

One egg, i cup of sugar, one-half cup butter (small), i 
tablespoon corn starch, pour over these I pint of boiling water. 
After taking off of stove add a little vanilla to flavor. 

Mrs. W. H. Philleo. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Three cupfuls flour and one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted together, yolks of 2 eggs, salt, one-half 
cupful sugar, and milk enough to make a batter. Whip the 
whites of 2 eggs and add 1 tablespoonful melted butter. Slice 
six bananas and stir into the batter. Fry right away in boiling 
lard, and drain on coarse brown paper. 

Lutie M. Chamberlin. 

HAM TOAST. 

One pint of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of flour, one- 
half cupful of chopped ham, four slices of buttered toast. Boil 
the milk, thicken it with flour, then add the ham. Boil three 
minutes ; take from the stove and add the beaten egg. Stir 
well and pour over the toast. Mrs. Gertrude D. Bauer. 

HAM OMELET. 

Melt a lump of butter in frying pan, beat 6 eggs and drop 
them into it, and stir in 3 tablespoonfuls of chopped ham either 
fried or boiled. Season with pepper and salt. 

Mrs. Wash Boone. 

OMELET BAKED. 

Four eggs, two tablespoonfuls butter, three tablespoon- 
fuls flour, 2 cupfuls milk or cream, salt and pepper. Bake 20 
minutes. Susie Irvin, Kansas City. 



64 
CHEESE SCALLOP. 

One cupful grated cheese, one cupful bread crumbs, three 
eggs, one pint milk. Bake 20 minutes. If you don't have a 
cupful of cheese use a lump of butter. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 

HOW TO BOIL EGGS JUST RIGHT. 

Place them in a kettle of cold water; set kettle over a 
good fire and cover. When the water boils they are done — 
cooked through without the white being tough. W. H. 



PASTRY. 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 

As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." — O. W. Holmes. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Whites of 4 eggs, 1 cupful of prepared cocoanut, 1 cupful 
sugar, 1 quart of new milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, pinch of 
salt. Put milk on stove and let it come to a boil; add cocoa- 
nut and sugar; mix flour thoroughly with cold milk, then add 
to boiling milk; lastly the eggs well beaten (gently). Bake the 
crust before putting the mixture in. Beat the whites of 4 eggs 
and add 8 teaspoon fuls of pulverized sugar and vanilla flavor- 
ing. Spread over top and sprinkle with cocoanut. Place in 
oven to brown delicately. This makes two pies. 

Mrs. F. A. Wolff. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup shredded cocoanut, 1 heaping 
tablespoon flour, 1 pint milk. Mix sugar, flour and cocoanut 
dry, then add the milk and cook in double boiler. Put in the 
baked pie shell. Use whites of 2 eggs for top of pie. 

Mrs. Bert Graham. 



65 
ORANGE PIE. 

Grate the rind of I and use the juice of 2 large oranges. 
Stir together I small cupful of sugar and I tablespoonful of 
flour, add to this the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. When baked take the whites of 
the eggs and after adding 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar spread 
this over the pie and return to the oven and brown slightly. 

Mary R. Boyd. 

NAPERVILLE PIE. . 

Two cupfuls flour, one-half cupful- butter, one-half cupful 
sugar, (mix well together). One-half cupful molasses, one-half 
cupful hot water, one-half teaspoonful soda mixed and poured 
in pie tin lined with crust ; then put the flour, butter and sugar 
mixture on top; bake. This is enough for two pies. 

Mrs. M. Sponsler. 

VINEGAR PIE. 

Bake a thin crust. For 2 pies, one-half teacupful vine- 
gar, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour in a little molasses, 2 cupfuls 
water, 1 cupful sugar, 1 teaspoonful butter, a little nutmeg. 
Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. Low Brown. 

VINEGAR PIE. 

One-half cupful of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, add a little 
water, then cream together. Boil coffee cupful of water with 
3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Add the mixture with 1 teaspoon- 
ful of lemon while boiling. Have baked crust; put filling in. 
Use whites of 2 eggs for frosting. Brown in oven. 

Mrs. Belle Woods. 

COTTAGE CHEESE PIE. 

Two cupfuls cottage cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, one- 
half teacupful sugar, 1 tgg, a little grated nutmeg, one-half 



66 

cupful sweet milk. Beat all together till smooth. Bake with 
under crust made like biscuit dough, one-fourth of an inch 
thick. After filling, grate nutmeg on top. To be eaten warm 
with syrup made of 2 cupfuls of sugar and one-half cupful 
water. F. A. Wolff. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE. 

Slice 3 or 4 green tomatoes very thin. A layer of the 
sliced tomatoes, one-third cupful sugar, a small piece of butter, 
a little allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg; sprinkle with flour 
quite thick ; then another layer of tomatoes, sugar and spices. 
Flavor with grated lemon rind. Bake until the juice gets 
thick. Mrs. L. R. Wright. 

JELLY PIE. 

Yolks of three eggs, one-half cupful of sugar, heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour ,two teaspoonfuls of butter, a little nutmeg. 
Beat all together and stir in two-thirds of a cupful of milk. 
Pour into a pan lined with rich pie crust and bake. When 
cool spread over the top jelly and over the top of this whipped 
cream sweetened, or the beaten whites of two eggs. 

Mrs. Will McManus. 

CREAM PIE. 

Whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls flour in a pint tin, fill it up with sweet 
cream, nutmeg to taste; use but one crust. Cover with frost- 
ing if liked. Mrs. M. R. Duff. 

CREAM PIE. 

Cover plate with crust and bake, watching carefully to 
press down the blisters. Cream ; One cupful of milk heated 
to scalding, add one-half teaspoonful of corn starch mixed 
with a little cold milk, one-half teaspoonful of flavoring, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of sugar, yolks of two eggs. When 



67 

cooked to proper consistency pour over the crust. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar and then spread 
this over the top of the pie. Brown slightly in the oven. 

Cora Ingmire. 

CREAM PIE. 

To one pint of cream add two-thirds cup of sugar and a 
tablespoon of flour mixed together, add white of two eggs 
well beaten and flavor to suit the taste. Margaret Candor. 

CREAM PIE. 

Stir to a cream one-half cup sugar and one tablespoon ful 
of butter, add yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons of flour, two 
cups of rich milk, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Cook in double 
boiler until thick; fill baked crust. Beat the whites of two 
eggs with two tablespoons of sugar, spread over pie and brown. 

Mrs. H. Crosby. 

CREAM CURRANT PIE. 

One cup cream, one Qgg, sugar to taste; then stir in cur- 
rants to fill the pie. Bake, then cover with the beaten whites 
of two eggs with two tablespoons of sugar and return to the 
oven to brown lightly. Nannie L. Emrick. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

One cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one-half cup raisins 
minced fine, one teaspoon cinnamon, one small teaspoon cloves, 
yolks of three eggs, using one white. Bake in one crust and 
use the reserved whites for frosting. Bess Bassett. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

Mix a scant half cup of flour with one cup of sugar; sea- 
son with nutmeg and cinnamon and add a cup of sour cream. 
Bake with one crust. Mrs. Chas. A. Freise. 

LEMON PIE. 

One quart boiling water, one heaping cup of sugar, yolks 



68 

of three eggs, one tablespoon of corn starch mixed with a little 
cold water, stir into the boiling water and sugar, add juice 
and outside grated rind of one lemon, one heaping teaspoon 
butter, pour into two shells previously baked. Beat the whites 
of three eggs, spread over the tops and brown. 

Mina Mclntyre. 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup sugar, one cup hot water, two eggs, one table- 
spoon cornstarch, one lemon, one tablespoon of butter. Pour 
the water on the sugar, to this add the grated rind and juice 
of the lemon, the yolks of the eggs, the cornstarch dissolved 
in a little water, and the butter. Cook all together until it 
thickens. Have the crust baked and pour in the mixture. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and spread on top of 
pie. Mrs. Whitsitt. 

LEMON PIE". 

Take a deep dish, grate intOg^the outside of the rind of 
2 lemons, add to that one and one-half cupfuls of white sugar, 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls of unsifted flour or one of corn starch, 
stir it well together, then add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten; 
beat this thoroughly, then add the juice of the lemons, 2 cup- 
fuls of water, a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Place on 
fire in another dish containing boiling water until it thickens. 
Remove from fire and when cooled pour it into a deep pie tin 
lined with pastry. When done have ready the whites beaten 
stiff with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread on top and set 
in oven to brown lightly. This makes one very large pie or 
two small ones. Mrs. Blanche Patterson Wells. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon grated, one cup of sugar, the yolks of three 
eggs, a small piece of butter, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one 
teaspoonful of corn starch. Beat all together, bake with rich 



69 

crust. Beat the whites with sugar, place on pie when done, 
and then brown in the oven. Mrs. D. R. Johnston. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One quart boiled squash, two cupfuls sugar, six eggs, one- 
half cupful butter, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one pinch salt, 
one pint rich milk or cream. This makes two large pies. 

Mrs. J. F. Henderson. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One-half pint of squash, 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 cups sweet 
milk, a little salt, makes three small or two large pies. 

Mrs. Agnes F. Morey. 

Mrs. W. W. Moorhead. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

One cupful mashed currants, one cupful sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls water, two tablespoonfuls flour beaten with the yolks 
of two eggs. Beat the whi for the top. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 

CHESS PIE. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pint of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
1 pint of boiling water, one-half cup of vinegar. Stir until 
all lumps are dissolved. Boil as you would lemon filling. Bake 
crust, then filling. Meringue for top. 

Mrs. Bertha Logan Mickey. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Five eggs, 4 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor with 
lemon. Beat the yolks and 2 of the whites (save 3 for the 
frosting) and sugar well together, then add flavoring and milk. 
Bake with one crust. Then beat the remaining 3 whites to a 
stiff froth, sweeten and flavor. Spread over the tops of the 
pies. Return to the oven and brown. This will make 3 pies. 

Mrs. A. M. Macy. 



70 
MINCE MEAT. 

Three pints of chopped meat, 5 pints of chopped apples, 
1 and one-half pints of molasses, 1 pint of vinegar, 2 pints of 
cider, 1 pint of suet or butter, 2 pints of raisins, 3 pints of 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half tablespoonful of 
mace, 1 tablespoonful of cloves, 2 lemons, grate the rind and 
squeeze in the juice. Add all but the meat and spices. Boil un- 
til raisins are tender, and then stir in the meat and spices. If 
suet is used scald it. Mrs. W. R. Lemon. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Six pounds of beef, 6 pounds of apples, chopped fine, 4 
pounds of sugar, one-half pound of citron (grated), 3 pounds 
of raisins, 3 pounds of currants, 1 pound of suet, 2 quarts of 
boiled cider, one-half cupful of salt, 2 nutmegs, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of ground cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls of ground allspice, 2 
tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon. When used, enough 
sweet cider should be added to make the mixture quite moist. 

Mary R. Boyd. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Three bowls of meat, 5 bowls of apples, 1 of molasses, 1 
of vinegar, 1 of cider, 2 of raisins, 1 of suet or butter, 5 of su- 
gar, one-fourth pound grated citron, 2 tablespoons each of 
nutmeg and cloves, 1 tablespoon of pepper and 1 of salt. Put 
the water the meat has been cooked in into the whole and let 
all cook slowly until thoroughly cooked. Seal. 

Mrs. J. H. Ramsey. 

Bess Bassett. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Take equal parts stewed pumpkin and rich sweet milk. 
To a quart of the mixture add 3 well beaten eggs, 1 teacupful 
of sugar, butter the size of an tgg, one-half nutmeg grated. 



71 

Line a deep pan with crust, set in the oven and fill full. Some 
like a pinch of salt. Mrs. S. Adams. 

CRACKER PIE. 

One cupful crackers, i and one-half cupfuls water, two- 
thirds cupful weak vinegar, one-half teaspoonful spices, piece 
of butter, i cupful raisins, sweeten to taste. Put all together 
and boil. Bake between crusts. Gertrude D. Bauer. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Have your crust baked. Three tablespoon fuls of grated 
chocolate, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 1 cupful of milk, 1 
cupful of sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, a small piece of butter; stir 
together and boil until thick. Frosting: Beat the whites of 
3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Put in the oven and brown. 

^/O^tA^tAzo^ 6^C-4- /L ^ : ^ Mrs - W - H - Robertson. 

Jennie Brown. 

BANANA PIE. 

Make crust very flakey, fork it and bake as for any other 
separate crust. Let cool. Slice in crust 2 good sized bananas, 
sprinkle with sugar, pour over bananas a bowl of whipped 
cream flavored to taste. Leota Grace Guthrie. 

BANANA PIE. 

Line pie pan with crust and bake. When done cover the 
bottom with slices of banana cut thin. Make a custard with 2 
glasses of milk, 2 tablespoons corn starch, yolks of 2 eggs. Boil 
this until thick, then add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and 2 level 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour over bananas and cover the top 
with meringue made of the whites of the 2 eggs and set in the 
oven to brown. Three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate may 
be added to the custard if desired. Mrs. G. G. Weidling. 

PIE CRUST. 

One cup flour, a little salt, 3 tablespoons ice cold butter 



72 

chopped through the flour, add 3 tablespoons ice cold water, 
roll out and fold, use extra flour if necessary. For a two crust 
pie use in proportion one-third more of the ingredients ( 1 ex- 
tra tablespoon of butter and water and one-third of a cup of 
flour) . 

CARAMEL PIE. 

One cup of dark brown sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk. 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, a pinch of 
salt, yolks of 2 eggs. Cook until thick and flavor to taste. Use 
whites of eggs for top of pie. Mrs. John Wilson. 

LEMON RAISIN PIE. 

One cup chopped raisins, 1 lemon chopped, 1 cup cold 
water, 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 1 cup sugar, butter size of 
walnut. Mix flour and sugar together, add water last. 

Mrs. T. D. Winders. 

Mrs. J. W. Murphy. 

A DAINTY PIE. 

Line a pie plate with a rich crust and bake a light brown. 
When cold spread with a thick raspberry jam and heap with 
sweetened whipped cream. Mrs. Harriet Stevenson. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil the potato until tender or use left overs. Proceed as 
for pumpkin pie. Season with nutmeg and cinnamon, sweet- 
en to taste, add tablespoon of butter. Bake with one crust. 

Mrs. Mary McManaus. 

PINE APPLE PIE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, 5 
eggs, 1 pineapple grated. Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the beaten yolks of eggs, the pineapple and cream 
and last the beaten whites whipped in lightly. Bake with 
under crust. Delicious. Mrs. Harriett Cabeen Sells. 



73 
RAISIN TART. 

Stew i cup of seeded raisins with i cup of water until 
tender, add one-half cup sugar, I dessert spoon cornstarch, 
yolks 2 eggs, and a teaspoon ful butter, cook until thick, add a 
little vanilla. Pour into a crust which has been previously 
baked, spread with the beaten whites of the eggs and brown 
in the oven. . Adelaide McKinney. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup flour, little salt, pinch cayenne, 2 tablespoons 
butter, chop through flour as for pastry, add 3 tablespoons ice 
water, one-third pound of grated cheese, toss, roll and fold. 
Cut in narrow strips and bake light brown. 

Mrs. W. H. Philleo. 

Mrs. J. T. Jobe. 

Mrs. Mary E. Dutt. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cupful grated cheese, one cupful flour, one dessert 
spoonful melted butter, one teaspoonful baking powder; add 
salt, mix, roll out smooth one-fourth inch thick and cut in 
strips six inches long. Bake quickly. * * 

ROSETTE WAFERS. 

Take 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of salt, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of flour (a little more if neces- 
sary). Beat eggs slightly with sugar and salt, add milk and 
flour, beat until smooth. If wanted for patties or instead of 
toast, leave the sugar out of the batter. Put the rosette iron 
in hot lard to heat before dipping it into the batter, not letting 
the batter come over the top of the iron, return it to the hot 
lard thoroughly covering the iron with same, for at least 20 
seconds but not over thirty-five seconds. Pearl Winders. 



74 
TIMBALES. 

One cup of flour, i cup of milk, 2 eggs, half a teaspoon of 
salt. Put all the ingredients together in a mixing bowl and. 
beat to a smooth batter. Fry on hot timbale iron in hot lard, 
fill with creamed chicken, oysters or vegetables. 

Mrs. Margaret Taylor. 

PUDDINGS. 

"The proof of the pudding is in the eating thereof and not in 
chewing the string." — Old Proverb. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One quart of flour, one coffee cupful of chopped raisins, 
one teacupful of currants, one teacupful of chopped suet, one- 
half cupful of candied lemon finely shredded, one cupful of 
brown sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, 2 cupfuls of sweet milk; sift the flour, baking 
powder and salt, mixing thoroughly. Next add the raisins, 
currants and candied lemon and incorporate well with flour or 
they will sink to the bottom. Then put in suet and sugar, last- 
ly the milk. Stir well, put in bag which has been dipped in 
boiling water and floured. Boil three hours. Do not let the 
fire get low so the pudding will stop boiling. Replenish with 
boiling water. 

sauce;. 

One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, one tablespoon- 
f ul of flour, one egg ; melt the butter in sauce pan and stir till 
smooth. Then stir in egg and pour upon this one pint of boil- 
ing water. Add lemon if you wish. Mrs. J. F. Henderson. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cupful of raisins, one cupful of currants, one cupful 



75 

of sweet milk, one-half cupful of molasses, one cupful of chop- 
ped suet or one-half cupful of melted butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, flour to make a stiff batter, dark flavoring. 
Steam 3 hours. Use any kind of sauce that suits best. This 
makes a large pudding. Mrs. Thos. Maddux. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak 4 tablespoon fuls of tapioca 2 hours ; boil one quart of 
milk, add one cupful of sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, and the 
tapioca ; let all come to a boil. Remove from the fire and slow- 
ly stir in the whites of four eggs beaten stiff*. Flavor to suit 
your taste. Set on ice and serve cold. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Let one quart of milk come to a boil, stir into it three and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of tapioca, (soaked over night in a 
little luke warm water), three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one ta- 
blespoon ful of corn starch dissolved in a little cold milk, and 
the yolks of three eggs. Boil these together for a few minutes. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add one tablespoonful of su- 
gar and one teaspoon ful of vanilla; spread on top, set in oven 
and brown. Esther J. Dool. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cupful flake tapioca, one quart milk, five eggs, 
(whites and yolks beaten separately), one-half cupful of su- 
gar, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; wash the tapioca 
thoroughly, then pour on about one quart of cold water and 
let soak over night. In the morning pour off the water not ab- 
sorbed, beat the sugar and butter together, add the yolks well 
beaten, the milk and tapioca and lastly the beaten whites. Stir 
all together well and bake in a buttered dish. Eat warm with 
sugar and cream or some kind of sweet sauce, flavored with 
vanilla. Ada McKinney. 

Mrs. S. W. Gailey. 



76 
PEACH PUDDING. 

One quart canned peaches, or soft raw peaches, one pint 
flour, one tablespoonful of lard or butter, one cupful of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one saltspoon of 
salt. Empty the peaches into a square baking pan, sprinkle bits 
of butter, and one handful of sugar over them, then place them 
upon a range to heat. Make a dough of the other ingredients, 
roll out, cut a small piece out of the center, roll it large enough 
to cover the pan, bake it twenty minutes. When done turn it 
out, having the peaches upon the top crust. Serve with fairy 
butter, or cream and sugar. Mrs. Emma Duff. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
rolled crackers, one half cupful of seeded raisins or currants, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, two eggs, a little salt, a 
little nutmeg, one teaspoonful of cinnamon. While baking stir 
once or twice to keep fruit from settling. Serve with sauce. 

SAUCE. 

One cupful of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
made into a smooth paste, a little nutmeg, a little salt, one pint 
of boiling water ; let all come to a boil. Mrs. Sara C. Ramsey. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One and one-fourth cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of flour, 
one cupful of bread crumbs, one cupful of sweet milk, one egg, 
one cupful of dates or raisins, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
flavor with nutmeg. Beat all together and steam two hours. 
Eat with cream. Mrs. Archibald McKinney. 

BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 

Pare and quarter six or seven good sized tart apples, chop 
tolerably fine, have one cupful of fine bread crumbs, butter a 
quart dish, put in a layer of apples, sprinkle with sugar, a lit- 



77 

tie nutmeg or cinnamon, and small bits of butter, cover with 
bread crumbs, then more apples. Proceed in this order till 
the dish is full, having a layer of crumbs on top. If the apples 
are not very juicy put in a few spoonfuls of water. Bake about 
an hour, or until apples are soft. Eat warm with sugar and 
cream. A)da McKinney. 

Mrs. Low Brown. 

STEAMED BROWN PUDDING. 

One egg, two spoonfuls of butter, one cupful of sugar, one 
half cupful of sour milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, flour to 
make a stiff batter ; flour one cupful of raisins, and one cupful 
of currants, stir in batter, scald and flour a cloth, put in colan- 
der and steam two hours. 

SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of butter 
melted together, add one cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
vinegar, two-thirds cupful of boiling water, flavor with nutmeg. 

Mrs. Charles Kinsey. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

One pint of milk, yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the milk on to boil. 
Beat the yolks and sugar together until light, then add them 
to the boiling milk, stir over the fire for two or three minutes ; 
take off and add vanilla. Set away to cool. 

Mrs. Martha Gillespie. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

One ounce Cox's gelatine, soak in three pints of cold 
coffee (such as is left from breakfast) and two cupfuls of su- 
gar. When the gelatine is soaked or dissolved, boil eight or 
ten minutes and pour into mold. In hot weather put on ice. 

Serve with sugar and cream. 

Bernice Lorimer Blake. 
Sara C. Ramsey. 



78 
PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Make a rich paste as for shortcake, line a deep plate with 
the dough and cover with layer of pineapple, sprinkle with su- 
gar, cover with layer of dough; steam one hour. Serve with' 
pineapple sauce. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Three-fourths cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour ; beat to a cream and pour 
over it one pint of boiling water, flavor with one teaspoonful 
essence of pineapple. Mrs. Rose Humphreys, Alexis. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of fine bread crumbs, one quart milk, one cup 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, piece of butter size of egg, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Bake until done but do not allow it to become 
watery. Spread with five or six peaches, sliced and sweetened. 
Three or four oranges may be used if preferred, (with a little 
cocoanut sprinkled on). Whip whites of four eggs to a stiff 
froth with five tablespoons of sugar and juice of one lemon 
spread on top and brown. Good cold. 

Mrs. H. Walter. 
Mrs. Sarah Markee. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 

Ten cents worth of English walnuts, ten cents worth of 
marshmallows. one pint sweet cream, sugar to taste, two ta- 
blespoons gelatine. Whip cream, put in sugar, add nuts and 
marshmallows. cut in small pieces, melt gelatine in as little 
water as possible. Add gelatine last and beat enough to mix. 
Pour in shallow pan and let stand in cool place at least two 
or three hours before serving. Mrs. H. Walter. 

HINGHAM PUDDING. 

Three cups flour, one cup cold water, one-half cup sugar, 



79 

one-half cup molasses, one- fourth cup melted butter, one cup 
raisins, (other fruit if desired), one egg. one teaspoon soda. 
Steam three hours and dry in oven a few minutes. 

Opal S. Wolff. 

FOOD FOR THE GODS. 

One pound English walnuts chopped fine, two pounds 
dates, cut fine, two cups granulated sugar, six eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately. Xine tablespoons of rolled crackers, 
two teaspoons of baking powder mixed with crackers. Bake 
in slow oven one and one-half hours. To be eaten with whip- 
ped cream. This will serve from twelve to sixteen persons. 

Harriett Stevenson. 

INDIAN MEAL PUDDING. 

Into one quart of boiling milk stir one quart of sifted 
meal, then add one quart of cold milk, two "well beaten eggs, 
one-half teacupful of sugar, a little salt, and spices to suit your 
taste ; stir well ; pour into a buttered dish and bake two hours. 
Serve with hard sauce made by beating equal parts of butter 
and sugar to a cream. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in one-half pint of meal, let 
stand and cool, then add four eggs beaten, two cupfuls of su- 
gar with a little butter. Bake three hours. 

Mrs. M. E. Wharton. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

Stir into one quart of boiling milk the yolks of two well 
beaten eggs, to which a little cold milk has been added, three 
heaping tablespoonfuls of corn meal, one-half cupful of sugar. 
Cook five minutes, take from fire, add the beaten whites of 
the eggs, pour into a pudding dish and bake one hour. Serve 
with cream and sugar. Mrs. Caroline Calhoun. 



80 
QUICK PUFF PUDDING. 

Stir one pint of flour, two tablespoon fuls of baking pow- 
der, and a little salt into milk until very soft. Put in well 
greased cups one tablespoon ful of batter, then one of any kind 
of berries, then one of batter. Place cups in steamer and steam 
one-half hour, and serve with cream. Isa B. Nesbitt. 

CONWAY PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding dish, lay in tart apples, sliced, sprinkle 
with white sugar, and a little nutmeg, and butter, then some 
stale bread crumbs. Fill the dish with alternate layers of ap- 
ples and bread crumbs. Pour over it one cupful of milk. Bake 
in a moderate oven one hour. To be eaten either with cream 
and sugar, or sauce. Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

JAM PUDDING. 

One Cupful any kind of jam or canned fruit, three eggs, 
beaten separately, one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of su- 
gar, one small teaspoonful of soda, two cupfuls of flour. Bake 
25 minutes. To be eaten with sauce, or cream and sugar. 

Mrs. F. A. Wolff. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Sift two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a 
pinch of salt in a quart of flour, two large tablespoon fuls of 
butter thoroughly in the flour, mix with just a little milk. 
Grease pan with butter. I use a pan eight inches square, two 
inches deep. Take one-half and roll size of pan. Lay in pan 
and grease top with butter, roll the other one-half and lay on 
top ; bake 40 minutes. Separate when taken out. Mash straw- 
berries a little and sweeten just before serving. 

Mrs. Judson A. Harvey. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

This recipe is enough for four persons; if more is needed 



81 

double the recipe. One egg, one tablespoon ful of butter, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk or 
water, one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix with 
flour enough to make a very soft dough, knead as little as pos- 
sible, and roll it large enough to bake in a jelly tin. When 
baked put the strawberries (well mixed with sugar) on the 
crust. If preferred, save the white of the egg for frosting 
mixed with a little sugar. Spread it over the top, set it in the 
oven until slightly browned. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. I. S. Detwiler. 

BROWN PUDDING SAUCE. 

One tablespoon butter, three tablespoons C. sugar, one 
tablespoon flour. Mix together in pan and set on stove, and 
melt and brown. When quite brown pour in a pint or more of 
hot water and boil and stir until all lumps are melted and it is 
about as thick as cream. Clara Butler. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and chop fine six sour apples, grease a pudding dish, 
put in a layer one-half inch thick of grated bread, add bits of 
butter, put in a layer of chopped apples, sprinkle over with su- 
gar and any spices, and repeat until dish is full. Have the last 
a layer of apples, pour over one cupful of cold water ; bake thir- 
ty minutes. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one cupful of tapioca three hours in two cupfuls of 
water ; pare, quarter and core six apples, pour the tapioca over ; 
add two more cupfuls of water, one cupful of sugar, grate nut- 
meg over the top and bake two* hours. 

Mrs. Anna McWhorter. 

WASHDAY PUDDING. 

One cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of sugar, one egg, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 



82 

der, flour enough for cake dough, lemon flavoring; steam one- 
half hour. Serve hot with sauce : One cupful of vinegar and 
water,one tablespoon ful of butter,one egg or corn starch,lemon 
flavoring. Mrs. J. M. Warwick. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Two and one-half cupfuls of flour, cupful of water and 
orange juice (the grated rind and juice of one-half orange be- 
ing used), one large cupful of sugar, butter the size of a wal- 
nut, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; steam one 
hour. Serve with cream. What is left is good steamed over. 

Mrs. Sue C. Bassett. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one- 
half cup sweet milk, one cup flour, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, a pinch of salt, one-half cup of raisins or any kind of 
fruit. Fill cups about half full and steam an hour or more. 
Serve with sauce. Clara Butler. 

PUDDING. 

Two cups fruit juice, three-fourths cup sugar, three table- 
spoons corn starch. Cook slowly ten minutes. Beat into it 
the whites of two eggs, pour in sherbert cups and serve cold 
with whipped cream. Bess Bassett. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup chopped suet fine, one cup raisins, one cup sor- 
ghum, one cup sour milk, one-half cup currants, two even 
teaspoons soda. Steam two hours. Mix suet, molasses and 
raisins well, then add sour milk, then soda mixed in cup of 
flour. Stir until it foams, then add enough flour to make as 
stiff as cake batter. Put in pan with tube in center and set in 
steamer. Mrs. Lena Bissell. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One teacupful of suet, chopped fine, one teacupful of mo- 



83 

lasses, one teacupful of sweet milk, three and one-half teacup- 
fuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one teacupful of fruit; 
steam 2 hours. To be eaten with sauce. Mrs. A. A. Rice. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cupful of suet, chopped fine, one cupful of stale 
bread crumbs, one cupful of raisins, one cupful of New Or- 
leans molasses, one cupful of sour milk, 3 cupfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt; steam 3 
hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mix together one cupful chopped suet, one cup raisins, 
one cup currants, three cups of flour, one teaspoon salt, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Add sufficient water, stir stiff with 
a spoon. SAUCE FOR SAME : — One pint water, one table- 
spoon butter, one tablespoon flour, a little salt. Add one cup 
sugar after boiling. Flavor. Tie pudding in a cloth. Steam 
four hours.  - Mrs. J. T. Mardock. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cupful of chopped suet, one-half cupful of molasses, 
one-half cupful of sugar, one cupful of sour milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, three cupfuls of flour, one or more cupfuls of 
seeded raisins, one-half teaspoonful each of cinnamon and 
cloves; put in cake pan, set pan in steamer and steam three 
hours. Put in oven for a few minutes to dry. SAUCE : — One 
cupful sugar, two tablespoon fuls of corn starch, a piece of but- 
ter, lemon flavoring (or nutmeg) one pint of boiling water. 
A little vinegar if you like. Alice M. Sponsler. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one cupful of sugar, four tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch, one-half cake of Baker's chocolate. Heat 
milk boiling hot, add sugar, corn starch, and chocolate, bring 



84 

it to a boil, remove from fire. Serve cold with sweet cream 
and sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One teacupful of grated chocolate, and one quart of new 
milk, boil together then set till cool. Beat well four eggs, re- 
serving the whites of three, sweeten with a teacupful of sugar, 
and add a teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake in a pudding dish slow- 
ly. Beat the whites of the eggs with sugar and put over the 
top and slightly brown. Mrs. D. R. Johnston. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls corn starch, yolks 
of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, one cup 
sugar. Put the milk in a stew pan to boil, adding the choco- 
late, sugar and a pinch of salt. Mix the corn starch with cold 
milk, beat in the yolks of the eggs, and stir into the boiling 
milk. Let it boil five minutes, stirring often to prevent burn- 
ing. Pour into a dish or mould to cool. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a froth, add three tablespoons of sugar, flavor with va- 
nilla. Pour over the pudding and serve cold, with sweetened 
cream flavored with vanilla. Grace F. Burrows. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Four cups milk, four tablespoonfuls flour, four table- 
spoonfuls sugar (or more), four tablespoonfuls chocolate, 
small lump of butter, salt, one teaspoon vanilla. Cook as fol- 
lows: — Stir flour, sugar and chocolate dry, then mix very 
smooth by adding one cup of milk (gradually) stir this cold 
mixture into the other three cups of milk that have reached the 
boiling point, stir quickly while boiling and when thick add 
flavoring. Turn into moulds and serve cold with cream. 

Mrs. Chas. E. Duvall. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one cupful sugar, one and one-half cupfuls 



85 

flour, one-half cupful sweet milk, butter the size of an egg, two 
teaspoon fuls of baking powder, steam thirty minutes. To be 
eaten with cream or lemon sauce. Mrs. Lida Rodgers. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one cup milk, one cup flour, tea- 
spoonful vanilla, pinch of salt, piece of butter size of walnut, 
one and one-half teaspoons (Calumet) baking powder. Beat 
butter and sugar together well, add egg well beaten, then rest 
of ingredients. Bake in moderate oven. Bake in loaf cake 
pan. Use any sauce desired. Loretta Gillette. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one egg, 
one cupful sweet milk, one good teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, three cupfuls of flour, and one-half teaspoon of lemon; 
bake in long tin. When baked cut in squares and serve with 
sauce made of one pint boiling water, add one tablespoonful 
of butter, one-half cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour 
wet with a little cold water; boil a few minutes. When taken 
from the fire grate nutmeg in sauce. Esther J. Dool. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING. 

One cup flour, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup su- 
gar, one egg, butter size of small egg, one small teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, one cup raspberries. Bake in moderate oven. 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one level tablespoon flour. Mix sugar and 
flour dry, add one pint boiling water stirring constantly until 
clear and add one cup raspberry juice. 

Mrs. Guy H. Carroll. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

One pound fine black prunes soak over night. In morn- 
ing cut out stones and chop fine. Add one cup sugar, stir well 



86 

and cook two or three minutes. Beat until stiff the whites of 
six eggs, stir prunes into the whites, put into a greased baking 
dish and bake until nicely browned. Serve with whipped 
cream or custard. Will serve about ten persons. 

Bess. V. Sponsler. 

Mrs. W. W. Moorhead. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Two eggs, two-thirds cup of milk, one cup sugar, one cup 
flour, tablespoonful butter. Beat the butter, sugar and yolks of 
eggs until light, add milk and lightly beat in flour with a large 
teaspoon baking powder, lastly the whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Bake in square pan. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One lemon, one cup sugar, one cup water, one dessert 
spoon butter, boil together and thicken with one tablespoon 
corn starch dissolved in cold water, until clear. 

Mrs. Wm. McHard. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, one cup sour 
milk, three cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, one pound chop- 
ped raisins, one-half pound chopped citron, one-half pound cur- 
rants, one-fourth of a nutmeg, one teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Steam three hours. 

SAUCE. 

One pint boiling water, one cup white or brown sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, flavor with vanilla or any extract pre- 
ferred. Mrs. Sarah Cooke. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Two pints of finely chopped suet, one pint of raisins, one 
cup of English currants, three well beaten eggs, one cup of sour 
cream or milk, one heaping teaspoonful of soda, cinnamon, 



87 

nutmeg and cloves, teaspoon of each ,and flour to thicken. 
Steam four hours. To be eaten with sauce. 

Mrs. G. C. Mclntyre. 

PLUM ROLL. 

Two cups of flour in mixing bowl, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, two tablesgoon- 
fuls of butter rubbed lightly through the flour, beat one egg 
light, add to it one-half cup of milk. Add this to flour mixture 
making a soft dough to roll. 

FILLING. 

One cup of seeded and chopped raisins to which add one 
cup sugar, the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Add last 
one egg beaten light. Mix well, roll dough one inch thick, 
place filling on dough, roll up, place in mould and steam two 
hours. Serve with sauce as follows : One tablespoonful but- 
ter melted, add one tablespoonful flour, three-fourths cup su- 
gar. Mix well, add one cup warm water and one cup boiling 
water, stirring constantly. Mrs. S. A. D. Farr. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half box gelatine, 2 cupfuls of sugar, juice of one 
lemon, 3 eggs (whites), one pint of boiling water. Pour the 
boiling water on the gelatine, add the juice of the lemon, and 
sugar. When nearly cold, strain; add the whites of the eggs 
beaten quite stiff, beat the whole together, put in a mould and 
set on ice. With the yolks of the eggs, one pint of milk, one 
large spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn starch make 
a boiled custard; flavor to taste. Serve cold by pouring the 
custard around portions of the snow. 

Mrs. Grace Widney Mabee. 
Mrs. Frederica Bauer. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

A hasty dessert made in seven minutes. Two cupfuls boil- 



88 

ing water, three-fourths cupful granulated sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls corn starch. Boil together briskly five minutes. Beat 
in the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs. Flavor to taste. 
Serve cold with cream. Sliced oranges, pineapple, candied 
cherries or cubes of jelly add greatly to this dish. 

Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One pint or a little more of boiling water, beat into it four 
tablespoonfuls cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water. Add 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, pinch of 
salt and flavoring. 

SAUCE. 

One pint milk, yolks of two eggs, one whole egg, one half 
cup sugar, salt and flavoring. Mrs. Whitsitt. 

ORANGE SNOW. 

Soak a scant half box of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls 
water for 15 minutes. Pour on two cups of boiling water, add 
one cup of sugar and the juice of two oranges. Let stand un- 
til the mixture begins to thicken, then add the whites of two 
eggs beaten light, and the whole beaten with a wire spoon until 
white and light like snow. Turn into small molds, and set 
away to chill. Serve with a liquid sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Heat two cups of milk to the boiling point, add one level 
tablespoon of cornstarch mixed with one-half cup of sugar and 
cook five minutes. Add the well beaten yolks of two eggs, 
cook two minutes, then add a teaspoonful of orange flavoring 
and cool. Pour around the snow when taken from the moulds. 

Leota Grace Guthrie. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA. 

Soak over night one cup of tapioca in plenty of cold water. 



89 

The next morning drain off all the water, then add to it the 
juice of two lemons and one-half cup of water and half pound 
can of sliced pineapple, shredded, and its juice. A'dd to this 
one and one-half cup sugar. Cook all slowly stirring carefully 
so it will not spoil the shape of the tapioca. Cook until almost 
clear. Have ready the whites of three eggs well beaten and 
fold into this carefully. Serve ice cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Guy H. Carroll. 
Mrs. Isabella Guthrie. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

One-fourth cup pearl tapioca or one and one-half table- 
spoons minute tapioca, two cups scalded milk, two eggs, one- 
third cup sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla. Pick over tapioca and soak one hour in cold water to 
cover, drain, add to milk, and cook in double boiler until tapi- 
oca is transparent. Add half the sugar to milk and remain- 
der to egg yolks slightly beaten and salt. Combine by pouring 
hot mixture slowly on egg mixture in double boiler and cook 
until it thickens. Remove from range and add whites of eggs. 
Flavor. Mrs. H. B. Allen. 

RASPBERRY SPONGE. 

Cook one cup sugar and one-half cup water till it spins a 
thread. Add gradually the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
beating till smooth, and then set aside to cool. Mash and rub 
through a sieve enough raspberries to measure one cup. Soak 
a level tablespoon gelatine in one-fourth cup cold water and 
dissolve by standing in hot water and add, with juice of one 
lemon, to the mashed berries. Stand aside to chill and when 
the mixture begins to thicken add by spoonfuls to the beaten 
whites. Turn into a mould and set on ice, serve with whipped 
cream and garnish with whole berries. Mrs. S. A. D. Farr. 



90 
GRAPE SPONGE. 

One-fourth box gelatine in one-fourth cup water, dis- 
solve by standing in hot water. One cup sugar ,one cup grape 
juice, the juice of one lemon, strain in the gelatine. Let it 
cool, when it begins to stiffen beat into it the whites of three 
eggs beaten and put into mold. Elizabeth Winders. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One-fourth cup sugar, one-half cup flour, one pint boiling 
milk, five eggs. Wet sugar and flour with three or four table- 
spoons of cold milk, stir into boiling milk and cook until it 
thickens and is smooth. Add butter, stir in beaten yolks of 
eggs, add the stiffly beaten whites, flavor with vanilla. Bake 
three-fourths hour, set in pan of hot water, serve with cream 
sauce. 

CREAMY SAUCE, 

One cup powdered sugar, one-third cup butter, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, one-third cup cream. Beat butter to a cream, add 
sugar ; when light and creamy put bowl in basin hot water, stir 
until like putty; remove from hot water and stove and beat in 
cream. Blanche McKinney. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup sour milk, one cup molasses, one cup raisins, one 
teaspoon soda, graham flour (stiff batter). Steam two hours. 
To be eaten with sauce. Mrs. T. A. Vernon. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One egg, one cup Orleans molasses, one cup raisins, one 
cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, one teaspoonful soda and 
one of cream tartar, one-half nutmeg, two and one-half cups 
Graham flour, dredge the raisins with a half cup wheat flour, 
steam two hours. 

SAUCE. 

One cup C sugar, two good tablespoonsful butter, one 



91 

large tablespoonful flour. Heat it together, then put a pint of 
boiling water and stir until it thickens, then add half nutmeg. 

Mrs. John Duff. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, one-fourth cup butter, . 
three teaspoons baking powder, two cups flour, one cup chop- 
ped raisins, one-half cup chopped English walnuts, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Fill buttered cups one-half full and steam three- 
fourths of an hour. 

SAUCE. 

Melt one-third cup butter with one heaping teaspoon flour 
and two tablespoons sugar, add cup boiling water. Flavor with 
vanilla. Myra B. Garrett. 

Maud Brown. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Two and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon soda, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half salt spoon cinnamon, one-half salt 
spoon nutmeg, one-half cup butter, one cup raisins chopped, 
one cup nuts chopped, one cup sweet milk, one cup molasses. 
Steam three hours and serve with sauce. 

SAUCE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, two tablespoons fruit juice, one-fourth cup boil- 
ing water. Just before serving add water and beaten white of 
one egg until it foams. Mrs. Chris Thede. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

One cup water, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoons corn 
starch, two teaspoons vanilla. Mix the sugar and corn starch ; 
add the water and boil five minutes. Remove from the fire 
and add the butter and vanilla. Mrs. Wansing. 

PLAIN PUDDING SAUCE. 

Three tablespoons sugar, three tablespoons vinegar, one 



92 

tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, mix well, then pour 
three- fourths pint of boiling water over it, boil five minutes, 
sprinkle with nutmeg. Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

STEAMED SUET AND FRUIT PUDDING. 

Two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, one-half salt spoonful cinnamon, one-half 
salt spoonful nutmeg, one cup chopped suet or two-thirds cup 
butter, one cup chopped raisins or currants, one cup water or 
milk, one cup molasses. Sift the soda, salt, and spice into the 
flour, rub in the butter and add the raisins. Mix the milk with 
the molasses and stir it into the dry mixture. Steam in a but- 
tered pudding mold three hours. If water and butter be used, 
three cups of flour will be required as these thicken less than 
milk and suet. It can be steamed in cups. Serve with foamy 
sauce. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

Whites of two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup boiling milk, 
juice of one lemon. Beat whites of the eggs till foamy, but not 
dry; add the sugar, beat well; add the milk and lemon juice. 

Ella G. Revnolds. 



\ 






93 



DESSERTS, ICE CREAM and ICES. 

"An't please your honor," quoth the peasant, 
"This sauce dessert is very pleasant. — Pope. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Put one quart of milk over the fire and when it reaches 
the boiling point add one cupful of sugar ,and four tablespoon- 
fuls of grated chocolate. Boil gently five minutes and add the 
beaten yolks of six eggs gradually, stirring constantly. Do 
not let boil. As soon as well thickened, remove from the fire. 
When nearly cold add vanilla to taste. Beat briskly one min- 
ute and pour into custard cups. Whip the whites to a froth 
with powdered sugar and heap some on each cup and put a 
piece of bright colored jelly on top. Mrs. Frank Irvin. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until creamy, pour into them 
two quarts of scalding milk, add two cupfuls of sugar; return 
to the fire and stir just a minute; add one- fourth of an ounce 
of gelatine that has been soaking one-half hour in half cup of 
cold water ; strain and flavor. When perfectly cold, freeze. 

Mrs. Nellie Graham. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Beat one pint of cream to a froth, stir in three-fourths 
cupful powdered sugar and one cupful grated pineapple. Pour 
half cupful of boiling water on one-third package of gelatine; 
strain this into cream; begin at once to stir from the bottom, 
and stir until it thickens. Bernice Lorimer Blake. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One quart granulated sugar and one quart water, boil 
until a thick syrup, pour boiling hot over one can grated pine- 



94 

apple and add juice of four lemons. Add stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs; lastly add two quarts of cold water. Freeze. 
For gallon freezer. Mrs. T. D. Winders. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One pint of grated pineapple or one can of pineapple chop- 
ped fine, one and a half quarts of milk, one pint of sugar, juice 
of one lemon ; turn all into a freezer. Prepare ice by taking one 
saucerful of coarse salt to two saucerfuls of very finely crushed 
ice. When only a small quantity is being frozen it is sufficient 
for the ice to come a few inches above the sherbet. Turn slow- 
ly at first for a few minutes, then rapidly until you can turn 
no longer. This is sufficient for fifteen dishes. 

Mrs. Robert Dool. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Two quarts of rich milk, whites of four eggs, juice of two 
pineapples, juice of four lemons, a little more than one pint of 
sugar ; put eggs and milk in the freezer and chill, then add the 
sugar, lemon and pineapple. Mrs. J. T. Mardock. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

For a gallon freezer, take one quart of granulated sugar, 
and one quart of water. Boil to a thick syrup and pour over 
one can of grated or finely chopped pineapple, add the juice 
and pulps of four lemons, and put into the freezer ;add the stiffly 
beaten whites of three eggs, fill up with cold water, lacking a 
*\uart: that leaves room for freezing. Mrs. Bess L. Watson. 

PINEAPPLE WATER ICE. 

One pineapple, one and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one 
quart of water, juice of two lemons. Boil sugar and water to- 
gether five minutes; when cool add the grated pineapple and 
lemon juice; then freeze. Mrs. Nannie Love Emrick. 



95 
ICE CREAM. 

One quart of sweet cream, whites of three eggs, one cupful 
of white sugar, one tablespoonful of flavoring. Beat cream and 
whites of eggs each to a froth; then beat all together and 
freeze. Mrs. A. F. McKee. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Use one-half gallon of cream, one-half gallon of milk ; dis- 
solve one and one-fourth pounds of sugar granulated (or one 
and one-half pounds of pulverized) ; add four teaspoons of va- 
nilla. Martha Bay. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, one pint of milk, one-half pound of su- 
gar, yolks of three eggs, four bananas. Scald the milk and 
add the beaten yolks and sugar; stir until it thickens. When 
cool add the cream and bananas which should be mashed 
through a colander. Freeze at once. 

Mrs. Nannie Love Emrick. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Eight bananas, one quart of cream and one-half pound of 
sugar. Pare and mash the bananas, put one pint of the cream 
on to boil in a double boiler, when hot, add the sugar, stir until 
dissolved and stand aside to cool. Beat and stir the bananas 
to a smooth paste, and add them to the cream and sugar, then 
add the remaining pint of cream and turn into the freezer and 
freeze. Mabel Bigelow Ramsey. 

MAPLE ICE CREAM. 

One cup milk, one coffee cup maple syrup, one quart 
cream, yolks of two eggs. Heat milk scalding hot and cool, 
then add it to the yolks of eggs beaten very light with the maple 
syrup. Put in double boiler and scald thoroughly. Add the 
cream and freeze. The whites of eggs may be used or not. 

Mrs. Victor H. Bassett. 



96 
PEACH ICE CREAM. 

The day before you wish to make the ice cream boil three 
pints of cream ; break ten eggs and put the yolks into a bowl, 
beat well and sweeten with one cupful of granulated sugar; 
when the cream has reached the boiling point pour at once in- 
to the bowl over the yolks of the eggs. Stand in a cool place 
until the following day. Mash one quart of peaches through 
the colander, sweetened to taste, and put in the custard prepar- 
ed the day before. Flavor with two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, 
freeze. Mrs. Nellie Graham. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Boil tw r o cups granulated sugar and one cup water until it 
threads. Add one pint orange juice and the juice of one lem- 
on to syrup. Scald one cup cream, add beaten yolks of two 
eggs and when cool mix with the syrup. When ready to freeze 
add a cup of cream whipped. Freeze. Bess Bassett. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Twelve large juicy oranges, one pound of sugar, one quart 
of water. Mrs. Ann Roberts. 

LEMON ICE. 

Make a good strong lemonade. For about two quarts of 
lemonade take the whites of four eggs; beat to a stiff froth, 
add and freeze. Make the lemonade plenty sweet as the 
sweetness freezes out. Mrs. F. L. Moses. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Juice of ten oranges, one pint of sugar, two pints of water, 
two eggs (whites only). Freeze. Mrs. H. Crosby. 

MAPLE BISQUE. 

To one cup maple syrup add yolks of four eggs. Cook 
till mixture thickens, stirring constantly, then remove and cool. 



97 

Beat two cups of cream till stiff, then add beaten whites of the 
eggs. Whip syrup till light, add cream and freeze. 

Mrs. H. C. Morse. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Boil one pint of good milk with two-thirds cupful of su- 
gar, pour over the yolks of three well beaten eggs, then pour 
the whole over a half box of gelatine that has been soaked in 
half cupful of water. When it has cooled and begins to thick- 
en, whip till it becomes smooth; then add by degrees one pint 
of cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth ; stir well, pour 
into a mould and set on ice. This w r ill make three pints. 

Mrs. Thos. Maddux. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

For 12 to 1 6 people. Mix together one pint thick cream, 
whipped, whites of three eggs beaten, sugar to taste. One- 
fourth can chopped pineapple (or other fruit), half pound al- 
monds, blanched. Put one-half cup cold water over one-half 
box Knox's gelatine and let stand a few minutes, add one-half 
cup boiling water, when cool stir into the cream. Set in cool 
place until ready to serve. Bertha Louise Wolff. 

BANANA FLOAT. 

To one quart of milk, which has come to a boil, add one 
cupful of sugar, yolk of two eggs w 7 ell beaten, half scant cup- 
ful of corn starch mixed with milk, half teaspoonful vanilla; 
stir constantly until done. Before removing from the fire slice 
in three or four bananas ; make a frosting of the two whites and 
put on the float. Mrs. W. C. Galloway. 

STRAWBERRY FLOATING ISLAND. 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler; separate four 
eggs, beat the whites to a very stiff froth, drop them by spoon- 
fuls on the hot milk, allow them to remain but a moment, lift 



98 

and stand them aside on a plate; beat the yolks with one-half 
cupful of sugar, add to the hot milk, cook for a moment be- 
ing careful not to curdle, and turn out to cool. When cold cov- 
er the bottom of glass dish with strawberries, pour over the 
custard, heap the whites of the eggs over the surface, garnish 
with more berries and serve at once. Mrs. J. T. Mardock. 

DATE SAUCE. 

Chop nice clean dates and boil with small quantity of wa- 
ter until very soft. Rub through sieve to remove the stones ; 
thin slightly with hot water, add a little lemon juice and boil a 
moment longer. This is an excellent dressing for dishes which 
require sweetening. Mrs. C. W. Dryden. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil together one cup water, half cup sugar and a little cin- 
namon, add four tablespoonfuls grated chocolate dissolved in a 
gill of milk, into which a small tablespoonful of corn-starch has 
been stirred. Add half a gill of water, boil for five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla and 
serve at table, hot, poured over vanilla ice cream. 

Mrs. Rose W. Church. 

FROZEN SALAD. 

Four pints cream or rich milk, three pints water, two and 
one-half pints sugar, whites of five eggs, flavoring. One table- 
spoon gelatine well dissolved, boil sugar till all dissolves, add 
milk, gelatine, water, eggs, flavoring. Seven oranges cut in 
small pieces, one box of cocoanut, strawberries or any other 
fruit wanted. Pack freezer well in finely chopped ice and salt. 
Add mixture and freeze quickly. Mrs. A. K. Philleo. 

CRANBERRY SLUSH. 

Two quarts cranberries cooked until soft, then put 



99 



through sieve, add one pint water, juice of two lemons, three 
cups sugar, freeze and serve with meat course. 

Bess V. Sponsler. 

Mrs. M. E. Wharton. 



DESSERT. 



One quart tart apples finely chopped, one teacup English 
walnuts, one teacup rich cream. Beat cream and add apples 
and walnuts, also flavoring. Serve immediately or keep in 
very cool place until served. Mrs. Chris. Thede. 



DESSERT. 



Take one package of jello, any flavoring. Use amount of 
water called for on package and add one cup or more English 
walnuts left in halves. Let jello get almost cold before add- 
ing nuts. Serve. Mrs. Chris. Thede. 



FRUIT. 

"Fruits that blossom first will first be ripe." — Othello. 

SPICED FRUIT. 

Seven pounds fruit, one pint of vinegar, three pounds of 
sugar, two ounces of cinnamon, one and a half ounces of 
cloves. Scald together sugar, vinegar and spices. Pour over 
the fruit letting stand 24 hours ; drain off ; scald again and pour 
over fruit letting it stand 24 hours ; then boil all together until 
fruit is tender: skim it, and boil liquor until thickened. Pour 
over fruit and set away in jars. Mrs. Una McRoberts. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

To ten pounds of cherries, use five pounds of .sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, some whole cloves and cinnamon, also small 
bags of ground cloves and cinnamon. Scald sugar, vinegar and 



100 

spices well together, and pour over cherries for two days; the 
third day scald the fruit with it and can. 

FOR CURRANTS. 

Use same recipe except cook all together the first day and 
cook well. Put this in glasses same as jelly. 

Mrs. A. F. McKee. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

One peck of pared peachs, one quart of vinegar, two 
quarts of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoon- 
ful of cloves. Boil vinegar, sugar and spices and skim until 
clear, drop in peaches and boil ten minutes; take out the 
peaches and place in jars, boil the vinegar five minutes, pour 
over peaches and seal. Mrs. Wm. McHard. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow equal weight of sugar and raspberries. Wash the 
berries and cook in their own juice for half hour, stir often. 
Then add one-fourth of the sugar, boil five minutes, then add 
another part of sugar, boil again and so on till the sugar is all 
in. Put into small jars and cover with paper when cold. 

Mrs. Belle Woods. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Make the same as blackberry. A very good addition will 
be found in adding one pint of currant juice to every four 
pounds of fruit. Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

To each pound of fruit add an equal quantity of sugar. 
Rinse the fruit and put in a preserving kettle; stir constantly 
until part of juice is evaporated, then add sugar and simmer 
to a fine jam. This will be found better than putting the sugar 
in first. The seeds are not as hard in this case. 

Mrs. D. M. Candor. 



101 
BLACKBERRY JAM. 



Two quarts of blackberries, one quart of fine cooked ap- 
ples, two quarts of sugar. Boil 20 minutes. 

Mrs. May I. Whitham. 

PINEAPPLE JAM. 

Grate pineapple; to one pound of the apple add three- 
fourths of a pound of loaf sugar; boil ten minutes. 

Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

CHERRY JAM. 

Take equal quantities of seeded cherries and granulated 
sugar and a little water. Boil 20 minutes or till thick. 

Esther J. Dool. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Make the same as raspberry jam, omitting the currant 
juice. Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

WATERMELON PICKLES. 

Cut rinds the size you wish, removing outside, pour over 
them weak alum water quite warm, let stand 24 hours, soak un- 
til well cleansed, boil in water until tender. Make a syrup of 
equal parts of sugar and vinegar, spice with cinnamon sticks, 
boil rinds in this until clear, put in self sealers. 

Lizzie P. McCrea. 

PICKLED GRAPES. 

Take ripe grapes, remove all imperfect and broken ones, 
divide large bunches. Put in earthen jar a layer of grape 
leaves (the tannin in leaves helps preserve the firmness of 
grapes). To four quarts of vinegar take two or three pints 
of white sugar (or more if desired), one ounce of cinnamon, 
half ounce each cassia and cloves; boil vinegar, sugar and 
spices together a few minutes, and when cold pour over grapes. 



102 

By pouring the vinegar over the grapes cold you avoid crack- 
ing them and they retain their natural color. 

Mrs. D. M. Candor. 

PICKLED RAISINS. 

Select one pound best cluster raisins, leave them on stem, 
wash carefully, put in stew pan and add half pint of vinegar, 
half pint of water, one pint of sugar; let simmer one hour. 
When cold they are ready for use. Mrs. W. C. Galloway. 

DROP JAM STRAWBERRIES. 

One pint of granulated sugar with water enough to dis- 
solve it and cook to a syrup, then add one pint of berries. Stir 
well and bottle. Ella L. Scott. 

PEACH JELLY. 

One pint of water, one cupful of sugar, eight peaches, 
quartered; let water and sugar boil, drop in peaches; when 
cooked take peaches out, put half box of gelatine in syrup and 
stir until dissolved. Put peaches back in and let come to a boil. 

Bernice Lorimer Blake. 

CANNED PLUMS WTHOUT PARING. 

Place plums in steamer and steam till tender, then drop in 
thick syrup, boiling hot, made of white sugar. Seal in jars. 

Mrs. O. M. Hammond. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES. 

One peck of green tomatoes, slice six fresh lemons with- 
out removing the skin, take out seeds. Six pounds of white 
sugar and boil till clear and thick, then add ginger root. 

Nannie McGuffin. 

PLUM BUTTER. 

Cook plums in sufficient water to almost cover. Pour 
wate roff and rub through colander. To each cupful of plums 
add one cupful of sugar. Place in granite kettle and set in oven 



103 

and cook after it boils 15 or 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Xot necessary to seal. Mrs. O. M. Hammond. 

HEAVENLY HASH. 

Five pounds chopped apples without peeling, five pounds 
sugar, one pound raisins, seeded and chopped, four oranges. 
Chop the peeling and squeeze juice over sugar. Cook all to- 
gether slowly until clear. Mrs. Caroline Bassett. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Wash thoroughly and peel twelve oranges. With scissors 
cut rind in small fine pieces, cover with cold water and stand 
in cool place till morning. Shred pulp of oranges, removing 
all seeds and skin. In the morning pour water from rind, 
cover with fresh water and cook till tender, then remove from 
fire, add pulp and to a cup of orange add cup of sugar. Cook 
till clear, stirring frequently. If desired, add juice of two or 
more lemons. This recipe fills nine or ten glasses. 

Adelaide McKinney. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Make a syrup of three pounds of sugar and a pint of wa- 
ter, into which stir two large peeled and grated quinces. Boil 
for fifteen minutes and can for winter use, or' put in jelly 
glasses. Delicious with pan cakes or fritters. 

Mabel Clare Miller. 

CURRANT HONEY. 

One quart of stemmed currants, one quart of sugar, two 
oranges. Peel oranges and cut the pulp in small pieces. Chop 
the rind pretty fine and boil in water for ten or fifteen minutes, 
changing water two or three times. Add oranges to currants 
and cook all to almost the consistency of jelly. 

Mrs. J. H. Ramsey. 



104 
TO CAN CHERRIES OR ANY FRUIT. 

Fill Mason jars with fruit, mix water and sugar and 
pour over fruit and set in moderate oven and let come to boil. 
Seal. E. J. Campbell. 

SUN CHERRIES. 

Use equal parts sugar and seeded cherries. Put in porce- 
lain kettle and boil fifteen minutes. Spread cherries thinly 
on platter and set in the sun for two or three days or until syr- 
up is sufficiently thick, then place in jars and seal. 

Mrs. C. A. Haas. 

STEAMED CHERRIES. 

Fill as many fruit jars with seeded cherries as you can, 
set in a large kettle or boiler. Put the lids on but do not fasten 
them. Have as much cold water in the kettle as you can with- 
out upsetting the jars. Let the water come to the boil and 
steam the cherries until heated through; it will not take long; 
then take the jars out and drain off the juice. Have sugar dis- 
solved in a very rich syrup and pour on the cherries, put on 
the rubbers and lids but do not fasten perfectly tight until they 
steam a little longer and you remove them from the water. 
They will retain the flavor of fresh fruit much better than the 
ordinary way of canning cherries. The juice of the cherries 
may be canned for mince meat or set in the refrigerator until 
cold and made into a refreshing drink for hot weather. 

Mrs. Zoe Emerson. 



105 



PICKLES AND CATSUP. 

"Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers." 
CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

One-fourth pound of ground mustard, one-half pound of 
white mustard seed, one-fourth pound of black mustard seed, 
two and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one-fourth pound of 
white ginger root, one-half ounce of red pepper, one ounce of 
cloves, two ounces of allspice, one-half ounce of mace, one 
ounce of turmetic, two ounces of celery seed, two ounces of 
fennel seed, one and a half gallons of vinegar. Put sugar in 
the jar first, then throw in all the spices and mix together well. 
Put the pickles in another jar, sprinkle them well with salt, and 
pour enough boiling water over to cover them. Let them 
stand 24 hours, then drain out this brine, and throw them into 
the spiced vinegar. Occasionally, for a few weeks, stir them 
up from the bottom of the jar. They keep perfectly and are 
no further trouble. This recipe is for five hundred pickles. 

Mrs. C. H. Rutledge. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Lay the cucumbers in a weak brine over night. In the 
morning wash, put in cans and pour hot vinegar over them. 
Seal up and they will keep for any length of time. 

Mrs. Mary Holmes 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take 24 large, ripe and sound cucumbers, six white on- 
ions, four large red peppers. Pare and remove the seeds from 
the cucumbers, chop well, not too fine; then chop fine the on- 
ions and peppers and mix thoroughly with one cupful of salt, 
one ounce white mustard. Place in a muslin bag and drain 24 



106 

hours and remove to glass jars. Cover with cold vinegar and 
seal. They will keep a long time. Mrs. J. P. Lemon. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice tomatoes and let them stand over night in a weak 
brine. In the morning wash them several times to remove the 
briny taste. Put one gallon of vinegar into a kettle to which 
has been added three pounds of brown sugar (the vinegar and 
sugar should be heated together and skimmed). For a gal- 
lon of vinegar put in a bag two tablespoonfuls each of un- 
ground cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one tablespoonful mus- 
tard seed and a few black pepper corns. Put in the bag of 
spices and tomatoes at the same time and cook very slowly un- 
til tender; take up in jars. When cold put away in a dark 
place. Mrs. J. G. McGuffin. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice one peck green tomatoes, sprinkle through them one 
cupful of salt, and let stand over night. In the morning drain 
through a colander. Take two quarts of water and one quart 
of vinegar and boil tomatoes in it about five minutes, then 
drain through colander. Three quarts of vinegar, two pounds 
of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of mustard, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cloves, i tablespoonful of ginger, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
cinnamon, half teaspoonful cayenne pepper, three green pep- 
pers chopped fine. Boil ten minutes. Retta D. Scott. 

SLICED GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Soak over night in weak salt water one gallon sliced 
green tomatoes. In the morning drain and cook till tender in 
one quart of vinegar with one pint of sugar. Spice with whole 
cloves and cinnamon. Seal up. Mrs. W. J. Graham. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

Two-thirds chopped green tomatoes, one-third chopped 



107 

cabbage; let stand in separate vessels in salt over night, or 
several hours, press out all juice, mix together in granite pan 
with vinegar, sugar, mixed spices and a little pepper. Heat 
thoroughly, put in jars, and seal. Jessie M. Wharton. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, one dozen onions, one dozen 
mango peppers, one dozen small cucumbers. Chop separately 
and let stand several hours in a slight covering of salt, drain 
and heat in weak vinegar. Prepare a pickle of one quart or 
more of strong vinegar, one pint of sugar, spoonful whole 
mustard, one of cloves, one of ginger root. Heat and bottle 
for use. Mrs. Wm. McHard. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced, 
one teacupful of salt; mix and drain over night. Boil in two 
quarts of water and one of vinegar 15 minutes, drain in colan- 
der; then take four quarts of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, 
one-fourth pound of white mustard seed, one tablespoonful 
each of cinnamon, cloves, ginger, cayenne pepper, and ground 
mustard; put all together and boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. O. M. Hammond. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One quart each of small whole cucumbers, large cucum- 
bers sliced, green tomatoes sliced, and small button onions 
whole, one large cauliflower, divided into flowerets, and four 
green peppers, cut fine. Make a brine of four quarts of water 
and one pint of salt, pour it over the mixture of vegetables and 
let it soak 24 hours. Then heat just enough to scald it, and 
turn into a colander to drain. Mix one cupful of flour, six ta- 
blespoon fuls of ground mustard, and one tablespoonful of 
tumeric powder with enough cold vinegar to make a smooth 



108 

paste, then add one cupful of sugar, and sufficient vinegar to 
make two quarts in all. Boil this mixture until it thickens and 
is smooth, stirring all the time, then add the vegetables and 
cook until well heated through, and bottle. Very good. 

Mrs. W. W. Moorhead. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Twenty-four small cucumbers, one quart small onions, 
two large cauliflowers, six green peppers, two quarts green 
tomatoes; cut or grind all together, let stand in salt water an 
hour, then scald in same water and drain well. Then take 
three quarts vinegar, four cups sugar, four teaspoonfuls celery 
seed, one teaspoonful ground mustard, three-fourths cup flour, 
one-half ounce tumeric. Mix all together, let come to a boil, 
then pour over the drained mixture and cook for half an hour. 

Mrs. Flora Reed. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Three dozen small pickles, one quart ripe cucumbers, one 
dozen onions, one dozen green tomatoes, one quart beans, 
green or ripe, six green peppers, one large cauliflower, celery 
stalk or seed ; scald each separately in salt water till tender as 
you like. Take two quarts of vinegar, two and a half cupfuls 
of sugar; boil one and a half quarts of vinegar and the sugar. 
Into a half quart of cold vinegar stir one cupful of flour and 
six tablespoons of mustard and the same of cinnamon; pour 
this into the boiling vinegar and sugar, then mix all well to- 
gether. Mrs. Orphana YanMeter. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Peel and slice ripe cucumbers the long way. Soak in 
brine water over night. Put in one teacupful of sugar to one 
pint of vinegar. Season with cinnamon. 

Mrs. Low Brown. 



109 
ONION PICKLES. 

The latter part of August procure small silver skin on- 
ions, keep in a dry place. When ready to make pickles skin 
them and put in strong cold brine for from four to six days. 
Take out and rinse in cold water. Place in a jar in alternate 
layers of onions and spices, mustard, cloves and cinnamon, 
cover with cold vinegar and seal. Mrs. Agnes Morey. 

YANKEE PICKLES. 

Two cups boiled beets chopped fine, two< cups raw cab- 
bage chopped fine, one cup grated horse radish, one and a half 
cups brown sugar, one teaspoon cayenne pepper, one teaspoon 
black pepper, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon mustard, one 
tablespoon salt. Cover with good vinegar. 

Lettie P. Boyd. 

Mrs. Theressa Dool. 

PEACH OR APPLE PICKLES. 

One quart best cider vinegar, three pints sugar, boil slow- 
ly five minutes and skim. Pare fruit, put in syrup together with 
spices in proportion of two teaspoons whole cloves, four tea- 
spoons cinnamon, one small piece of ginger root to each gallon 
of fruit. Simmer fruit till tender. Fill fruit jars, set in warm 
place. Boil syrup till thick, fill jars and seal. 

Mrs. W. J. Graham. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES. 

One hundred and twenty-five medium sized cucumbers 
sliced, one dozen silver skin onions sliced, one cup white mus- 
tard seed, one scant half cup celery seed and dill seed mixed, 
one pint of olive oil, scant pint of salt, one quart or more of 
cold vinegar. Stir all together and stir every day for several 
days. Mrs. J. H. Ramsey. 



110 
PICKLtL STRING BEANS. 

Cook the beans in salt water until tender, drain in col- 
ander and put in glass jar with stick cinnamon scattered 
through. Heat the vinegar, taking a cupful of sugar to a 
quart of vinegar. Pour this over the beans and seal. 

Mrs. R. E. Fleming. 

PICCALILLI. 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, half dozen large onions. 
Slice onions and tomatoes ; half pint coarse salt, mix ; let stand 
half day, then drain well. Then put it to boil with enough 
vinegar to cook, add sugar to make as sweet as you like and 
two tablespoons of Jamaica ginger mixed with a little vinegar. 
Cook slowly till tender, put in glass jars. Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

PICCALILLI. 

Half peck green tomatoes and less than one-third as many 
silver skinned onions ; chop fine, sprinkle with salt, tie in sepa- 
rate bags, and let drain 24 hours. Then mix and cover with 
vinegar in a jar for another 24 hours, then squeeze out and 
add one red and one green pepper, chopped fine (leave out the 
seeds), one tablespoonful each of white mustard seed and cel- 
ery seed, some black pepper; mix well and cover with fresh 
vinegar. Mrs. J. R. Nicholls. 

PICCALILLh 

One gallon finely chopped green tomatoes (sprinkle well 
with salt and let stand over night, then drain off the brine and 
cover with vinegar). One-half gallon finely chopped cabbage, 
half gallon finely chopped cucumbers, one quart finely chopped 
onions. Pour boiling water over the onions, salt them and let 
stand two hours ; drain and cover with vinegar ; place cabbage 
and cucumbers in separate jars and cover with vinegar. Let 
all remain three days in a cool place, then press them all very 



Ill 

dry and mix together, adding one tablespoonful each of black 
mustard seed, white mustard seed and celery seed, one-fourth 
cupful of grated horse radish, and three green peppers finely 
chopped. Then take two quarts of good cider vinegar and 
two pounds of brown sugar ; boil and skim well and pour over 
the whole. If more vinegar is needed to mix well, add cold 
vinegar. Put away in stone jars, or if wanted for spring, put 
in glass jars and seal. Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

CHOWCHOW. 

One peck green tomatoes chopped fine, sprinkle one cup 
salt over them and let stand over night. In the morning drain 
in colander; add eight green peppers chopped fine, one cup 
white sugar, cover with vinegar and boil twenty minutes. Chop 
fine six large onions, two bunches celery, four little red pep- 
pers, add to the other ingredients, when cool and drained one 
cup prepared mustard and whatever spices you like, one pint 
grated horse radish, put in stone jar, cover with cold vinegar 
and cover tightly. Mrs. Ewing. 

CHOWCHOW. 

Pare and seed large ripe or green cucumbers and quarter 
them; cut in pieces about one inch long one quart and put in 
salt water, one large cauliflower, one dozen onions, one quart 
green tomatoes, one dozen small pickles. Cut all the size of 
the cucumbers ; break and cook done one quart of beans in salt 
water; add one quart celery; scald each one separately in salt 
water ; drain each one ; pour brine off the cucumbers ; scald and 
drain ; put all in a jar. Take two quarts of cider vinegar, two 
and a half cupfuls of sugar and put on stove to boil ; then take 
one-half quart vinegar, one cupful flour, six tablespoonfuls 
ground mustard and stir well together. Six green peppers, 
ground cinnamon buds; boil together until tender, then put 
away air tight. For the above get ten cents worth of mustard 



112 

and five cents worth of each of the spices, a little celery seed 
if you can't get celery. 

Mrs. J. A. Harvey. 

Aunt Lizzie Baxter. 

Mrs. E. C. Bartlitt. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Eight quarts of tomatoes, three cups of peppers, two cups 
of onions, three cups of sugar, one cup salt, one and a half 
quarts of best vinegar, three teaspoonfuls of cloves, three tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, two 1 teaspoonfuls each of ginger and 
nutmeg. Chop tomatoes, onions and peppers. Cook two hours 
then add rest of ingredients. Cook one hour more. Then can 
in pint Mason jars. Mrs. W. N. Boyer. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Tw r elve large ripe tomatoes, three ripe or green peppers, 
two onions, two* tablespoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, three cupfuls of vinegar. 
Peel tomatoes and onions, chop fine, add pepper and other in- 
gredients and boil one and a half hours. Put in stone or glass 
jars. Nannie A. Foote. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Eighteen large cucumbers, eight large onions, one tea- 
cupful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of white mustard seed, two 
tablespoonfuls of celery seed, one tablespoonful of ground pep- 
per; chop the cucumbers fine, put salt on them and let drain 
over night. In the morning chop the onions fine, mix all to- 
gether and cover with cold vinegar. Put in jar and cover care- 
fully, but do not seal. Josephine L. Calhoun. 

COLD CATSUP. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes and one teacupful of onions, 
chopped fine, one teacupful of sugar, half teacupful of celery 



113 

seed, one small teacupful of salt, two red peppers, without the 
seeds, one tablespoon ful each of cinnamon, mace, cloves, all- 
spice, one teacupful of grated horse radish, three pints of best 
cider vinegar. Josephine L. Calhoun, Keithsburg. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One bushel of ripe tomatoes ; cut, cook and strain through 
a sieve. To each gallon of liquid, add three tablespoons of 
salt. Put in a thin muslin bag, allspice, cloves and cinnamon, 
whole, and boil in liquor; then put three teaspoonfuls of celery- 
seed, and one grated nutmeg in liquid. Take half onion and 
boil in a little of liquid and strain into catsup. Boil all togeth- 
er until sufficiently thick. Just before taking off stove, add 
one cup of white sugar, one cupful of vinegar; season with 
black and white pepper to taste. Above quantity for each gal- 
lon of liquid. Mrs. A. L. Sponsler. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One gallon of tomatoes measured after cooking. One 
and a half tablespoons of salt, two tablespoons black pepper, 
one-half tablespoon allspice, one-half tablespoon cloves, half 
tablespoon cinnamon, one pint of vinegar. Cook one hour be- 
fore adding vinegar and spices. Mrs. C. W. Cole. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Five pounds of crushed currants, three pounds of light 
brown sugar, one pint of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cin- 
namon, one tablespoonful of ground allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful of ground cloves, half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of black pepper ; boil one hour, cool and seal. 

Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Six pounds of celery, chopped fine, one small onion, chop- 
ped fine; sprinkle this with salt, let stand a few hours, then 



114 

drain well; put in a crock to mix. Half ounce of mustard 
seed, one green and one red pepper, cut fine, then half ounce 
of ground mustard mixed with good vinegar; pour over this 
and seal up. Mrs. C. \Y. Rutledge. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Three tablespoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, half teaspoonful of salt, one well beaten egg, half tea- 
cupful of vinegar; stir the mustard into the vinegar, add the 
other ingredients, and have a pan of boiling water on stove. 
Put the mixture in an earthen bowl and place it in the hot 
water and stir it until it thickens. Take off and stir in while 
hot one tablespoonful of butter. Mrs. O. M. Hammond. 

CORN RELISH. 

Three peppers, ten cups chopped cabbage, ten cups sweet 
corn cut off cobs, three cups of sugar, two quarts vinegar, three 
tablespoons white mustard, three tablespoons of salt, two ta- 
blespoons celery seed. Cook half hour and seal while hot. 

Mrs. John M. Harney. 

Mrs. S. A. D. Farr. 

Mrs. George \Y. Werts, Jr. 

GOOSEBERRY SOY. 

Eight pounds gooseberries, four pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, half teacup water. Boil two hours or more, until 
thick. Mrs. Caroline Bassett. 



115 



LOAF CAKE. 

"Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it?" — Herbert. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One and three-fourths pounds flour, one and a half pounds 
sugar, three-fourths pound butter, six eggs, one and a half 
pounds raisins, one and a half pounds currants, a little citron, 
one pint sour cream, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoon 
ground cinnamon, one tablespoon ground cloves. Bake slowly 
two hours. Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two scant cups butter, one cup brown sugar, two cups 
granulated sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one pound each raisins and currants, half pound citron, half 
cup cooking molasses, half cup sour milk. Stir butter and su- 
gar to a cream, then add one tablespoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon cloves, add molasses and milk, then beaten yolks of eggs, 
four cups sifted flour, alternately, with beaten whites. Dis- 
solve one teaspoonful soda in warm water and add. Mix fruit 
and two tablespoons flour and add to cake. Bake two hours. 

Mrs. Chas. Finch. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of brown sugar, one 
pound of flour, two and one-half pounds of seeded raisins, one 
and one-half pounds of currants, one-fourth pound of grated 
citron, ten eggs, three teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg, six tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, four teaspoonfuls of cloves. Beat but- 
ter to a cream, add the sugar and beat together. Beat whites 
and yolks separately. Rub one-half of the flour into the cur- 



116 

rants, the other one-half into the raisins. Mix all together 
and bake three hours. Mary R. Boyd. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, half cupful of butter, one cupful 
of cold coffee (a little stronger than that used for drinking), 
three well beaten eggs, one cupful of seeded raisins, two tea- 
spoonfuls of chopped citron, one nutmeg, two tablespoon fuls 
Epi allspice, one teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to stiffen. 
'This recipe has the advantage of many in being moist from 
the first. Mrs. Isabella Guthrie. 

YELLOW FRUIT CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls 
of flour, three-fourths of a cupful of sour milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, nine eggs, separated and beaten, one pound 
of raisins (seeded), one pound of currants, one-fourth pound 
of citron; flavor with lemon and vanilla. 

Mrs. J. H. Abererombie. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

One coffee cupful of butter, two cupfuls of granulated su- 
gar, one cupful of sweet milk, three and one-half cupfuls of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of five eggs. 
Stir into this batter one grated cocoanut, one pound Jordan 
almonds, blanched and chopped fine, one pound of citron sliced 
thin and well dredged with flour. 

Mrs. J. H. Reynolds, Pittsburg, Pa. 

PARADISE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cupful of butter, two and one-half cupfuls 
of sugar, one and one-half cupfuls of sweet milk, one small 
tablespoon ful of soda, four large cupfuls of flour, one pound of 
raisins; cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, one large teaspoonful of 
each, one-fourth pound of citron if you like. 

Mrs. Frances Rice. 



117 
SPICE CAKE. 

Two and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, 
one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of sour cream, five eggs, 
one teaspoonful soda, three teaspoonfuls of ginger, three tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, one nut- 
meg; bake in layers. Mrs. Olive McDonald. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cupful molasses, one cupful of sugar, two-thirds cup.- 
ful of butter, one cupful of sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one nutmeg, one and a half teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful of cloves, three cupfuls of flour ; add fruit, 
and this makes a nice fruit cake. Mrs. Mary Dutt. 

POUND CAKE. 

Scant pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour, ten eggs, one small teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar (best pulverized), to a 
cream, beat the yolks of the eggs light, add to' the butter and 
sugar, stir well, then half the flour alternately with the well 
beaten whites of the eggs. Beat lastly with the hand in a 
stroke motion to aerate the batter. Bake in a slow oven. 

Mrs. O. J. Lorimer. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour, ten eggs, or yolks of 20, half of a nutmeg, half teacupful 
of sour cream, half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor. Bake one 
and a half hours. Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one scant pound of flour, half pound 
of butter, whites of 18 eggs, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, sifted thoroughly with the flour, flavor. Put in slow oven 
with gradual increase of heat in covered pan; remove cover 



118 

from pan 10 or 15 minutes before taking from the oven. 

Blanche McKinney. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds cupful of butter, three 
cupfuls of flour (little more), juice and grated rind of one 
orange, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, soda size of a 
pea, one and a half cupfuls of sweet milk, three eggs beaten 
separately. Adaline Dool. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Light part : One and a half cupfuls of sugar, half cupful 
of butter, half cupful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda, 
whites of four eggs, beaten. Dark part : One cupful of brown 
sugar, half cupful of molasses, half cupful of butter, half cup- 
ful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half tea- 
spoonful of soda, in two cupfuls of flour, yolks of four eggs, 
one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, all spice and nut- 
meg. Alternate in the pan. M. E. Black. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of pulverized sugar, one cupful of butter, 
one cupful of SAveet milk, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, four cupfuls of flour. Bake one and a 
half hours in a loaf. Mrs. E. B. Irvin. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of sweet milk, three-fourths cupful of butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
lemon flavoring. Mary Hunt. 

GOLD LOAF. 

Yolks of eight eggs, one cup sugar, half cup butter 
(scant), half cup sweet milk, one and a half cups flour, two 



119 

teaspoons baking powder. Cream butter and sugar thorough- 
ly, beat yolks well, add milk, then flour. Bake in tube pan. 

Maude C. Ungles. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Yolks of six eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of 
flour, half cupful of sweet milk, three-fourths cupful of butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
vanilla flavoring. Always sift flour, soda and cream of tartar 
together several times. Mary Hunt. 

CAKE. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths cupful of 
butter, three eggs, three-fourths cupful of milk or water, two 
cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flavoring. 

Mrs. Dixon. 

BREAD CAKE. 

One pint bowl of dough when it is ready to mould into 
loaves, four eggs beaten, two cupfuls of white sugar, one tea- 
cupful butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, half 
teaspoonful of soda, one pint bowl stoned raisins; mix by 
hands. Put the dough in a large bowl. First work in the 
butter well, then the sugar and spice, next the yolks, then the 
whites of the eggs, then the soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, lastly the raisins floured. This quantity makes two 
loaves. Put in pan and bake. Mrs. Kate C. Turner. 

BREAD CAKE. 

One and a half cup bread sponge, one egg, one-fourth cup 
butter, one cup sugar, one small teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cinnamon and a little nutmeg, one cup raisins, one cup nuts 
chopped coarse, one cup flour. Bake at once. 

Mrs. Mary Scott. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs beaten stiff, one tumblerful of pul- 



120 

verized sugar sifted five times, one tumblerful of flour with 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar sifted five times. Add flavoring 
to the whites, then sugar, and the flour last. Beat very fast. 
Bake in a pan with a lid in a moderate oven 40 minutes. 

Mrs. J. L. Marquis. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One cupful of flour, one and a half cupfuls of granulated 
sugar, whites of 12 eggs, one level teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, half teaspoonful of salt. Beat eggs until light. First 
sift sugar into them, then the flour and cream of tartar. Fla- 
vor to taste. Mrs. L. N. Morgan. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, 
half cup of molasses, one cup of strong coffee, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one of cloves, one cup 
of raisins or currants, and five cups of sifted flour. Add fruit 
last, rubbed in flour. Bake one hour. Mrs. Linn Vernon. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of cold coffe, one 
cupful of raisins, one cupful of molasses, three cupfuls of 
flour, not quite one cupful of butter, one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon and cloves, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Mrs. Sellers. 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE. 

Half cupful of butter and one cupful of sugar beaten to 
a cream, half cupful of milk, one and a half cupfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, whites of four eggs added 
last. Take one cupful of this mixture and add to it five grated 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate wet with a little milk and flavor 
with vanilla. Put a layer of white batter in cake pan, drop the 
chocolate batter in spots, pour over remaining white batter and 
bake. Mrs. Eveline Davison. 



121 
ALMOND CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, half cupful of corn starch, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of seven eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls extract of almonds. Mrs. G. M. Bauer. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths cupful of butter, one 
cupful of sweet milk, three and a half cupfuls of flour, well 
beaten whites of seven eggs, one and a half cupfuls of nut 
meats, well floured, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted 
with flour, one teaspoon ful of lemon. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One cupful of milk, two cupfuls of sugar ,two-thirds cup- 
ful of butter, three cupfuls of flour, whites of five eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one cupful nut kernels chop- 
ped. Flavor. Bake in a loaf. Lizzie P. McCrea. 

NUi CAKE. 

One scant cup butter, one and a half cups brown sugar, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in boiling water, two eggs, two 
and a half cups flour, two cups chopped nuts, one cup chopped 
raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon vanilla. 

Augusta, 111., Cook Book. 

YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of flour. 
Stir the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together until very- 
light, adding gradually three tablespoonfuls of water. Sift 
the flour thoroughly and beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, then add to the yolks and sugar. Alternate the flour 
with the whites of the eggs but save most of the latter until the 
last when it should be stirred in as lightly as possible. Flavor 
with lemon, or vanilla, or leaves of rose geranium. If 'the lat- 



122 

ter, put half dozen leaves in the bottom of the pan in which the 
cake is to be baked. Do not grease the pan but cover the bot- 
tom with paper. Bake very slowly. 

Lallie Abercrombie. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Sift together one cupful of flour, half cupful of corn 
starch, one teaspoonful of baking powder, add one cupful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful extract of orange, then add the whites 
of eight eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Mix thoroughly and 
bake in a well buttered cake tin in a quick oven 30 minutes. 

Mrs. At W. Henderson. 

SPANISH BUN CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one cup sour 
milk, teaspoon of soda, three whole eggs, two and one-half 
scant cups of flour, cup of seeded raisins, one tablespoon of 
cinnamon. Mrs. Henry Crosby. 

SPANISH BUN CAKE. 

One pint flour, one pint sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, four eggs beaten separately, two teaspoon fuls each 
of baking powder and cinnamon. Batter should be quite thin. 
Bake in large square pan and ice. Myra B. Garrett. 

SCRIPTURAL CAKE. 

Four and a half cups of I Kings, 4-22 ; one cup of Judges, 
5-25; (last clause) two cups of Jeremiah, 6-20; two cups of I 
Samuel, 30-12, two cups Nahum, 3-12, two cups Numbers, 
17-8, three tablespoonfuls I Samuel, 14-25, a pinch of Leviti- 
cus 2-13, six Jeremiah, 17-11, one-half cup Judges, 4-19 (last 
clause), two teaspoonfuls Amos, 4-5. Season to taste of II 
Chronicles, 9-9. Nellie Gilmore. 

PORK CAKE. 

Pour one pint boiling water over three-fourths pound 



123 

clear fat pork. Let stand until cool, then add two cups of 
brown sugar, one cup of best sorghum molasses, five cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one tablespoonful each of 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice and one nutmeg, one pound each of 
currants, raisins and citron, half pound each of lemon and 
orange. Use all your flour, mix with the hand. Flour your 
fruit before using. An extra pound of raisins may be used and 
currants omitted. If baked in one loaf, from four to five hours 
is necessary. Mrs. J. M. Wright. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE. 

Beat two eggs, add one cup sugar, one cup sour cream, 
one tablespoon of butter, small half teaspoon of soda, dissolved 
in sour cream, one grated nutmeg, flour enough to thicken. 
Bake in loaf. Mrs. Harriett Cabeen Sells. 

LAYER CAKE. 

"He that would have a cake of the wheat, must tarry the grind- 
ing. Hereafter the kneading, the making of the cakes, the heating 
of the oven, ana the baking; nay, you must stay for the cooling too, 
or you may chance to burn your lips." — Troilus and Cressida. 

PINK AND WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar (extra C), 
one cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in flour well sifted, whites of six eggs, 
beaten stiff; stir all together. This makes five layers. Sepa- 
rate enough for two layers, and add to it one teaspoonful of 
fruit coloring. 

FILLING AND FROSTING. 

Whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, add two cupfuls of 

white sugar, extract of orange. First a white layer and filling, 

then a pink one, etc. Finish with frosting on the top. 

Cathryn Marquis. 



124 
VANITY CAKE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, generous half cupful butter, one cup- 
ful water, three cupfuls sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, whites of six eggs; cream the butter and sugar, mix 
baking powder with the flour and add flour and eggs and water 
alternately. Bake in three layers. Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

TEA CAKE. 

One egg, butter the size of an egg, one cupful of sugar, 
two-thirds cupful of sweet milk, one and a half cupfuls of 
flour, two small teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Can be baked 
in layers. 

FILLING. 

Half cupful of sweet chocolate, half cupful of sugar, half 
cupful of sweet milk, yolk of one egg; boil, and when cool, 
spread. Mrs. C. F. Boggs, Alexis, 111. 

Mrs. C. L. Gregory. 

Mrs. Ewing. 

AMBROSIA CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths cupful of butter, one 
cupful of milk, three cupfuls of flour, four eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. 

FILLING. 

Half pint of whipped cream, white of one egg, half cup- 
ful of sugar, juice and grated rind of one small orange, cocoa- 
nut to thicken. Mrs. Lettie R. Boyd. 

JAM CAKE. 

Three-fourths cupful butter (scant), two cupfuls flour, 
one cupful sugar, three eggs, one cupful jam, one teaspoonful 
soda in four tablespoon fuls sour milk or cream, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, a little nutmeg; dissolve 
soda in the milk and add last. Put together with icing. 
Mrs. J. W. Haughey, Wellington, Kansas. 



125 
SNOW CAKE. 

One-half cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, one and 
a half cupfuls of flour, half cupful of sweet milk, whites of 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder; flavor with lem- 
on. 

FIG FUSING. 

Three-fourths pound of figs chopped fine, put in stew pan, 
pour over them one teacupful of water, add half cupful of su- 
gar, stir all the time, cook till very soft and flavr with lemon. 
If more water is needed add it. Mrs. Leslie Willits. . 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, yolks of six eggs, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one and a half cupfuls sifted granulated sugar, 
one cupful flour, one teaspoonful extract of orange; beat whites 
till stiff and flaky, then whisk in half the sugar. Beat yolks 
very light and add flavoring and half the sugar ; put yolks and 
whites together and fold in flour and cream of tartar, mixing 
as quickly as possible. Bake in layers 50 or 60 minutes in a 
slow oven. Mamie Henderson. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, half cupful of butter, half cupful of 
sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder ; bake in layers. Put the following mixture 
between while boiling hot : One pint of grated apple, juice of 
one lemon, one cupful of sugar, one egg. Boil till thick. 

Mrs. C. K. Marquis. 

SAND CAKE. 

Two and a half cupfuls of light brown sugar, one cupful 
sour cream, half cupful butter, three cupfuls flour, six eggs 
(reserve whites of two for frosting), one teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, one 



126 

teaspoonful of ginger, half teaspoonful of nutmeg; bake in 
layers with frosting between. Sweet milk and baking powder 
can be used instead of sour milk and soda. 

Mrs. Mary Unangst. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Break two eggs into a cup and fill it up with cream, one 
cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, sifted together, pinch of salt, flavor with lemon; 
Dake in layers. Put together with lemon custard. 

Mrs. M. Todd. 

CREAM CAKE. 

One and a half cups of sugar, half cup of butter beaten 
to a cream, then add one cupful of milk, and two cupfuls of 
flour with one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder sifted 
well through it ; add last the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. 

CREAM FOR FILLING. 

One cup of sweet milk; when it begins to boil, add, stir- 
ring all the time, half cupful of milk in which the yolks of the 
eggs and two tablespoons of corn starch and the same of sugar 
have been mixed. Flavor to suit the taste and spread between 
layers. Mrs. Emma Boyd. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Five eggs, well beaten, three tablespoons of cold water, 
one tablespoon of melted butter, one and a half cupfuls of su- 
gar, one and a half cups of flour, flavoring, half teaspoon of 
baking powder. Mrs. J. T. Mardock. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, half cup of but- 
ter, half cup of milk, two and a half cups of flour, three tea- 
spoons of baking powder. 



127 

FILLING. 

Two-thirds cup of desiccated cocoanut stirred into the 
beaten whites of two eggs with pulverized sugar. To frost it, 
use beaten white of one egg, seven tablespoons of pulverized 
sugar; sprinkle cocoanut on the top. 

Mrs. J. T. Whittemore. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One cup each butter, sweet milk and corn starch, two 
cups each sugar and flour, two teaspoons baking powder, 
whites of seven eggs beaten, one teaspoon lemon extract. Bake 
in layers with grated cocoanut between. Carrie Canum. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, three-fourths cup 
sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, 
whites of seven eggs. 

FILLING. 

Two cups sugar with enough hot water to dissolve it; 
boil the sugar and water without stirring until when taken up 
the syrup will thread from the spoon. When it is nearly at 
that point beat the whites of three eggs until frothy, add the 
boiling syrup, beating all the time. Flavor with vanilla and 
beat until cool enough to pile on cake. Sprinkle thickly with 
cocoanut. Blanche McKinney. 

FAVORITE SNOW CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups flour, one cup corn starch, one 
cup sweet milk, three teaspoons baking powder, two cups su- 
gar, whites of eight eggs, flavoring to suit taste: beat butter to 
a cream, add the flour and stir thoroughly together, then add 
the corn starch and milk in which the baking powder has been 
dissolved. Lastly add the well beaten whites of eggs mixed 



128 

with the sugar, flavor to taste. Bake in layers and put together 
with boiled frosting. Mrs. Mattie Gillespie. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
one and a half cups sweet milk, three teaspoons of baking pow- 
der and the whites of ten eggs; bake in layers. 

Nira McLaughlin. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-third cup butter, whites of four eggs, 
beaten stiff, one cup sweet milk, two and a half cups pastry 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, flavor to taste and bake 

in two layers. Use any filling desired. Mrs. Bert Graham. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Half cake chocolate, one cup sugar, half cup sweet milk, 
yolk of one egg; boil until it thickens, then cool. 

CAKE PART. 

One cup sugar, two- thirds cup butter, two eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, two and a half cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Before putting in the flour, pour 
in the above. Bake in layers and put together with boiled ic- 
ing. Mrs. Jessie P. Scott. 

Frances Bay. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, half cup corn starch, two teaspoons 
baking powder, whites of five eggs, one teaspoon vanilla; 
cream the butter and sugar together, add a part of the milk 
and flour, then the balance of the milk and flour, then the eggs, 
well beaten, then flavor. Sift flour and baking powder. 

ICING FOR THE CAKE. 

Mix one cup granulated sugar, one small tablespoon corn 



129 

starch, two tablespoons grated chocolate dry, then add four ta- 
blespoons sweet milk, a small lump of butter, yolks of two 
eggs, beaten, about half teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. Willard Wharton. 

Mrs. Agnes Elliott. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, half 
cup sour cream, two-thirds cup chocolate, grated, and dissolved 
in one-half cup boiling water, teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
vanilla, two and a fourth cups flour. Bake either in layers or 
loaf. Mrs. Ed Arterburn. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half bar of unsweetened chocolate, half cup of milk, 
the yolk of one egg. Cook all together. Add four tablespoons 
of butter while yet warm. When cool add half cup of milk, 
two cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one teaspoon of soda, and 
vanilla to flavor. The cooked portion should be a little thicker 
than molasses. Bake in two layers and put together with white 
icing. Mrs. Bessie Nelson. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

No. i : — Half cup of sweet milk, one cup of grated choco- 
late, one cup of granulated sugar ; boil in rice kettle until thick, 
add two teaspoons of vanilla, let cool. 

No. 2 : — Two eggs, half cup sweet milk, half cup butter, 
one cup brown sugar, two and a half cups flour, one teaspoon 
soda ; add No. I and bake in layers. 

FILLING. 

One-half cup sweet cream, two cups pulverized sugar; 
beat until white. Mrs. Kate Scott, Denver, Colo. 

DEVILS FOOD CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, half cup but- 
ter-milk or sour milk, half cup hot water, half cup Baker's 



130 

chocolate dissolved in hot water, three cups flour, one scant 
teaspoon soda. 

FILLING. 

Two cups sugar, half cup of sweet milk, two tablespoons 
of chocolate, piece of butter size of egg. Cook until thick. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. Mary L. Conningham. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

One cup C sugar, one cup grated chocolate, half cup milk. 
Simmer on stove but don't boil. Cool and add to three eggs 
half cup butter, one cup C sugar, well beaten, three cups flour, 
one level teaspoon soda, dissolved in milk. Add mixed ex- 
tracts to taste. Mrs. Alta Marquis. 

FUDGE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, three eggs, one cup 
milk, two and a half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
one-fourth cup chocolate, half cup English walnuts. 

FILLING. 
One and a half tablespoons butter, half cup cocoa, one 
and a fourth cups powdered sugar, one-fourth cup milk, half 
teaspoon vanilla. Mrs. J. E. Moore. 

SPANISH CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Heat half cup chocolate in one cup milk, add one cup su- 
gar, yolk of one egg, boil. Flavor with vanilla. One cup su- 
gar, half cup butter, half cup sour milk, two or three cups flour, 
tw° eggs, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot water, stir all to- 
gether and add flour last. Mrs. John Duff. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Beat the whites of three and the yolks of five eggs sepa- 
rately. Stir to a cream two cups of sugar and one-half cup of 
butter. Ajdd one-half cup of cold water, two and a half cups 
of flour with two teaspoons of baking powder. Grated rind 



131 

of one orange and all the juice, except about one tablespoon 
stirred into the cake. Bake in layers. 

FROSTING. 

Whites of two eggs, two small cups of sugar, with a ta- 
blespoon of orange juice. When cake is cold join them with 
frosting and frost the top. Mrs. Rice. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar and half cup butter, beaten well together, 
three eggs beaten well, whites and yolks together, half cup 
sweet milk, half cup water, three cups flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, flavored with orange. Bake in layers. 

FUSING. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, juice of two oranges with a 
little grated rind, boil together until thick enough to put be- 
tween layers. Pearl Winders. 

PIXIE CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, two cups sugar, two-thirds cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, one cup corn starch, two teaspoons 
baking powder, well beaten whites of six eggs. Mix in order 
written and bake in four layers. Make plain boiled icing and 
divide into four parts. To one add half cup each chopped cit- 
ron and blanched almonds; to second add pulp of one orange 
put through a sieve and half cup grated cocoanut ; to third, two 
tablespoons grated chocolate, half cup hickory nuts, half cup 
figs. Put i, 2 and 3 layers as written, on top plain icing. 

Mrs. M. E, Wharton. 

BURNT SUGAR CAKE. 

Put half cup sugar in pan over fire, stir until liquid smokes 
and burns brown. Add half cup boiling water and cook into 
syrup. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, yolks of 
two eggs, one cup water, two cups flour, beat all thoroughly, 



132 

add enough burnt sugar to flavor, one teaspoon vanilla, anoth- 
er half cup flour, two teaspoons baking powder, whites of two 
eggs. Bake in two layers, using burnt sugar for icing. 

Mrs. N. J. Emrick. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups flour, whites of three eggs, three teaspoons baking 
powder. Bake in two layers. To remainder add one teaspoon 
New Orleans molasses, one cup chopped raisins, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one half teaspoon cloves, yolks of three eggs, little 
butter, flour and baking powder. Bake dark batter in one lay- 
er and put between two white layers. Lizzie P. McCrea. 

BRIDES C/\«\E. 

Whites 12 eggs, three cups sugar, small cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, four cups flour, half cup corn starch, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, lemon to taste. Ruth A. Carter. 

FAVORITE FIG CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup half 
milk half water, three cups flour, three tablespoons corn starch, 
two heaping teaspoons baking powder. Sift three times with 
flour and corn starch, whites of six eggs beaten smooth, one 
teaspoon of lemon. Put eggs in last. 

FIG FROSTING. 

One pound of figs, chop fine ; pour over them a teacup of 
water and add a half cup of sugar. Cook until soft and 
smooth; when cold spread between layers of cake. A white 
boiled icing over the cake greatly improves it. Flavor the last 
with bitter almond and vanilla. May I. Whitham. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, 
whites of seven eggs, one generous teaspoon baking powder, 



133 

three and a half cups pastry flour. Cream together the but- 
ter, and half cup sugar, add other cup sugar and cream again; 
add alternately the flour and milk until all but half cup of the 
flour has been added. Beat the whites of the eggs adding to 
them one-fourth teaspoon cream tartar. Add the baking pow- 
der to the reserved half cup flour and beat thoroughly into the 
batter. Add the beaten whites, flavor with half teaspoon lem- 
on and half teaspoon orange. Bake in two layers. 

Lillian D. Merritt. 

Mrs. C. W. Cole. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, one cup milk, three and a half cups 
flour, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Divide 
batter into three parts, bake two parts as plain cake. Add to 
remaining batter half cup raisins, one cup currants, one-fourth 
pound citron, two teaspoons molasses, mixed mace and cinna- 
mon. Bake and put fruit part between two plain parts with 
jelly between. Mrs. E. M. Miller. 

BLACK JOE CAKE. 

Cream together one cup white sugar with half cup butter, 
add yolks of two eggs, half cup of milk and two and a half 
cups of flour into which two teaspoons of Royal Baking pow- 
der have been sifted. To this mixture add half cake grated 
chocolate, half cup milk and one cup white sugar, which have 
been boiled together. Beat the whites of the two eggs and mix 
with above batter and bake in two layers. 

Mrs. H. B. Eshbach. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, half cup of sweet milk, 
one cup of mashed potatoes, one cup English walnuts, two cups 
flour, half cup melted chocolate, four eggs, three teaspoons 



 

134 

baking powder, one teaspoon each of lemon, vanilla, cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg. Put together with white or 
chocolate frosting. Mrs. W511 Hall. 

Minnie Laird. 

MAUDE S. CAKE. 

Two cups of brown sugar, half cup of butter, three eggs, 
one teaspoon vanilla, half cup of boiling water poured on two 
squares of chocolate, half cup sweet milk, two cups of flour, 
one level teaspoon soda. Mrs. D. X. Blazer. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, sweet or sour, one teaspoon baking powder or soda, two 
eggs, one teaspoon flavoring, one teaspoon allspice, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one and one-half cups 
flour. 

CAKE FILLINGS. 

"Sweets with sweets war not." — Shakespeare Sonnett, VIII. 
CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Four tablespoons sugar, melted and browned. When all 
melted put in one cup boiling water, one and a half cups sugar. 
Boil till it threads, take off and beat, adding sweet cream till 
soft enough. • Frances H. Boyd. 

CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Two teacupfuls of maple sugar, pulverized, half teacupful 
of sweet milk, half teacupful of butter, one teaspoonful of va- 
nilla ; boil all together until like wax, and when cool enough 
spread on cake. Mrs. L. \Y. Wright. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

One and a half cups of sugar, two-thirds cup sweet cream, 



135 

butter size of a hickory nut, and vanilla to flavor; pour these 
ingredients in a pan and let boil, stirring constantly. When 
done it will be taffy-like in a little cold water. Set off to cool, 
and spread between layers and on top. 

Maude Dool Canum. 

COFFEE CARAMEL FILLING. 

One cup of sugar, half cup of strong coffee; boil until it 
strings from spoon. Do not stir while boiling, then beat until 
creamy. Ella L. Scott. 

FILLING FOR FIG CAKE. 

Fifteen good sized figs chopped fine, yolks of two eggs, 
(mix with figs), half cup of sugar, half cup of hot water; boil 
all together and let it partly cool before putting on the cake. 

Mellie I. Eames. 
MILK frosting. 

One cup of granulated sugar, five tablespoons of milk; 
boil five minutes; flavor; stir until cold and put on a cold cake. 

Rosa Dool. 

FROSTING. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs well. Boil one cup of sugar 
and one-fourth cup of water until it threads, and pour over the 
yolks, stirring all the time ; beat until it thickens ; flavor. 

Mrs. Frank Irvin. 

ICING. 

Boil two cups of sugar with a very little water until a 
good syrup; pour it over the whites of two eggs, whip very 
stiff' until cold. Mrs. Una McRoberts^ 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Half cup granulated sugar, scant half cup of chocolate, 
half cup thin cream or rich milk, cook until it thickens. Spread 
on cake while warm. Jewel Richey David. 



 



• 136 

SOFT CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cake grated chocolate, yolks of 
two eggs beaten with half cup of milk or water and strained; 
one teaspoon of butter. Boil, stirring constantly, until it is 
the consistency of thick gravy. Flavor and when cool spread 
on cake. Mrs. Zoe Emerson. 

ALMOND FILLING. 

Yolks of three eggs beaten, half pint sweet cream, three 
tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon corn starch. Boil this until 
it thickens ; add one-half pound blanched almonds and one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Mrs. M. E. Wharton. 

Edna Candor. 

MOCHA FROSTING. 

Two teacups powdered sugar, one tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon cream or two tablespoons cream omitting the but- 
ter, two tablespoons cold coffee, three teaspoons dry cocoa, 
one teaspoon vanilla. Mix sugar with cream adding the other 
ingredients and use on the cake cold. Very nice for angel food 
cake. Bess Bassett. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Boil two cups sugar with one cup water until it ropes. Be- 
fore taking from stove add half pound marshmallows, broken 
fine. Pour, when partly cool, into the well beaten whites of two 
eggs and beat until cold. Edna M. Candor. 

BOILED ICING. 

One or one and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of wa- 
ter, boil until it hairs from a fork, pour gradually on the beaten 
whites of two eggs, stirring constantly. When this is thor- 
oughly mixed add one teaspoon of glycerine and half teaspoon 
each of vanilla and bitter almond. Beat until thick enough to 
spread on cake. Geraldine Emerson. 



137 



Ginger-Bread, Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 

"Allow not nature more than nature needs." — King Lear. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

One cup Orleans molasses, half cup brown sugar, half cup 
butter, half cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoon 
of allspice, half teaspoon ginger. Mix all thoroughly and add 
three cups of sifted flour; bake in shallow pans. 

Ruth G. Sickels. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sour cream or butter 
with milk, one cup coffee, two teaspoons soda, one teaspoon 
each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, one tablespoon of gin- 
ger, raisins, flour to suit, salt. Mrs. Barnes. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Half cup sugar, one cupful molasses, half cup butter, one 
teaspoon each of cinnamon, ginger and cloves, two teaspoons 
of soda in a cup of boiling water, three scant cups flour; add 
two well beaten eggs the last thing before baking. - 

Mabel Bigelow Ramsey. V 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Two eggs, one cup C sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
butter and lard mixed, three cups flour, teaspoon of ginger, 
one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, one tablespoon soda, one cup 
hot coffee. Mix soda in coffee and put in the last thing ; then let 
stand fifteen minutes before putting in oven. Add currants or 
raisins or nuts. Mrs. M. E. Wharton. 

SOFT GiNGER-BREAD. 

One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, two-thirds cup 



138 

butter, one cup sour milk, three eggs, three cups flour, two 
scant teaspoons soda, one small teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon ginger. • Mrs. Bert Acord. 

Ruth At. Carter. 

Mrs. N. J. Emrick. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, four eggs, two tablespoons extract ginger, one 
teaspoonful of nutmeg, four cups of flour (full measure), three 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake it in small tins. 
Orleans molasses preferred. This is excellent. 

Mrs. S. J. McCormick. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

One cup sugar, half cup sifted flour, one egg, one cup of 
nuts chopped fine; mix well together. Flour hands and make 
into balls the size of a hulled hickory nut, place in a greased 
pan three inches apart. Press a half nut into the center of each 
hull and bake in a moderate oven to a light brown. 

Mrs. Anna McWhorter. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup sifted flour, one cup water, half teaspoon salt, 
three eggs, two tablespoons sugar; put butter, sugar, salt and 
water on the fire in a sauce pan ; when the water begins to boil 
add the flour, dry, sifting in by degrees, stir vigorously until 
mixture is perfectly smooth, remove the pan from the fire and 
turn both into a bowl. Set away to cool. When cool put in 
the eggs (unbeaten), adding one at a time, and beat vigorous- 
ly after each addition. When all the eggs are in beat until 
smooth and soft. Lightly butter a pan and drop the mixture 
into it from a long spoon, using a spoonful for each puff. Bake 
30 minutes in a quick oven. After taking them from the oven 
let cool, split them open and put in cream, for which use the 



139 

following: one-half pint of milk, one egg (yolk only), one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of vanil- 
la, one-half teaspoonful of butter. 

Mrs. J. F. Henderson. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup of water and one-half cup of butter, boil togeth- 
er ; add one cup of flour. When cold add three eggs, not beat- 
en ; stir until smooth, then drop on buttered pans and bake 45 
minutes. 

CREAM. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup of "milk and one heaping 
teaspoonful of flour. Mrs. Fred Marquis. 

Mrs. Alta Marquis. 
Lizzie McCrea. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup hot water, one-half cup butter, boil together, stir 
in one cup of sifted flour; take from fire and stir to a paste, 
cool. Add. pinch of salt and three Qggs. Beat five minutes. 
Bake 25 minutes in either gem pans or drop on buttered tins. 
Slit a hole in side for filling. 

FILLING. 

One cup milk, two-thirds cup sugar, one Qgg, one spoon- 
ful flour, pinch of salt. Mrs. C. N. Brock. 

MARGUERITES. 

Boil one cup sugar, one-half cup water until it threads. 
Remove to back of range and add five marshmallows cut into 
small pieces. Pour on the whites of two eggs beaten until 
stiff; add two tablespoons of shredded cocoanut, one cup of 
English walnuts broken into pieces and one-fourth teaspoon of 
vanilla. Spread this on the wafers and bake until delicately 
brown. Mrs. N. E. Cundiff. 



140 
MARGUERITES. 

Whites of three eggs beaten stiff in powdered sugar un- 
til thick enough for frosting. Then add cup of chopped hick- 
ory or English walnuts. Spread on long crackers ; set in oven 
until light brown. Mrs. E. S. Strickland. 

MARGUERITES. 

One pound of almonds, blanched by pouring boiling water 
on them till the skins slip off'; chop fine and mix with whites 
of three eggs and three tablespoons of pulverized sugar. Break 
Saratoga flakes apart, spread the almonds on one, place anoth- 
er on top, spread the almonds on top of this, place in the oven 
and brown slightly. Mrs. Sadie E. Ensign. 

SQUIZZEL ENDUMS. 

One cup of sour cream, one cup of granulated sugar, a 
little nutmeg, one teaspoon of soda with sour cream, add flour 
just as thick as you can stir the mixture. Fry in lard and suet, 
one tablespoonful taken up at a time as for fried cakes. Dip 
spoon in hot lard first. C. B. Edwards. 

HERMITS. 

One and a half cups of dark brown sugar, one cup butter, 
three eggs, half teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, one cup 
hickory nuts, one tablespoon milk, spices of all kinds, flour 
enough to make drop cakes. Sarah Cooke. 

Mrs. B. F. Mawby. 

FROSTED CREAMS. 

One pint molasses, half pint shortening, half teacup wa- 
ter with tablespoon of soda dissolved in it, two tablespoons of 

ginger, two eggs, knead in flour to roll out easily. Cut in 

squares size of soda crackers with back of knife, then bake in 

quick oven. Soon as taken out frost slightly with icing. The 

dough can be prepared the night before. 



141 

ICING. 

White of one egg beaten to stiff froth, one large cup white 
sugar boiled with water till it hairs off spoon, then stir the syr- 
up into the egg froth slowly, stirring all the time. Beat till it 
gets quite cool and spread on. This icing is nice for any kind 
of cake. ' Kate Lewis. 

GINGER WAFERS. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of molasses, 
half cup boiled coffee, two teaspoons of soda, one tablespoon of 
ginger, flour to roll and bake a light brown. 

Maggie Baxter. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of butter, one cup of sour 
milk, three eggs, two teaspoons soda, flour enough to roll nice- 
ly, flavoring. Add nuts or raisins and dip in sugar. 

Grace Guthrie. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, three 
tablespoons of sweet milk, one teaspoon vanilla, two teaspoons 
baking powder, flour enough to roll but not stiff. Sprinkle 
sugar over top. Bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. Mary L. Chowning. 

COOKIES. 

One cup light brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
shortening, one dessert spoon soda dissolved in half cup warm 
water, one teaspoon ginger, two eggs. After they are cool 
spread. with boiled frosting. Mrs. C. A. Haas. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, six eggs, one even tea- 
spoon soda, rind of one small lemon grated and two or three 
tablespoons of juice, flour to roll. Sift sugar over top. 

Lettie P. Boyd. 
Mrs. Dutt. 



Is 



142 
COOKIES. 

One cup sour cream, one cup butter, two cups sugar, two 
eggs, one teaspoon soda, half teaspoon salt, a little nutmeg, 
enough flour to mix very soft. Do not roll, but mould in balls 
about the size of a hulled walnut. Place in baking pan and flat- 
ten with fingers and bake rather quickly. If desired raisins 
can be added. Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

COOKIES. 

Two and a half cups of sugar (extra C), one cupful but- 
ter, two eggs, flour to stiffen, half cup sour milk, scant tea- 
spoon of soda, nutmeg. Mrs. Mary K. Morrison. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, two cups chop- 
ped raisins, three-fourths cup sour cream or milk, two table- 
spoons ground cinnamon, one tablespoon nutmeg, one tea- 
spoon of soda, flour to roll. Roll out a few at a time, cut like 
cookies. Bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. Harriet Stevenson. 

FRUIT oOOKIES. 

Beat one and a half cups sugar with one cup of butter (or 
butter and lard), three eggs, one cup raisins, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one teaspoon soda dissolved in two tablespoons of hot 
water, three and a half cups of flour, cream butter and sugar, 
add eggs, beat thoroughly, drop by spoonfuls. Dip silver 
knife in water and press out lightly and bake. 

Mrs. W. C. Boyd. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup granulated sugar, one cup of Orleans molasses, 
one cup sour milk, three-fourths cup of lard, one tablespoon 
soda, two tablespoons ginger, two tablespoons cinnamon, or if 
you like, one cup of currants; mix stiff, roll out half inch 
thick, cut and bake in hot oven. Deborah Cummins. 



143 
GINGER COOKIES. 

One pint New Orleans molasses, one cup sugar, half cup 
lard, half cup butter, three eggs, three tablespoons waier, two 
teaspoons soda, three teaspoons ginger, one teaspoon of cin- 
namon, pinch of salt. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

Two cups of lard scant, two cups sugar, four egg*, one 
spoonful soda, dissolved in half cup water, four cups of graham, 
four cups of wheat flour, one teaspoon salt, one cup of raisins 
chopped. Mix and stand over night. Roll out in the morning; 
if soft add a little flour. Ruth M. Wright. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup cocoanut, one 
cup sour cream, or milk, three eggs, one teaspoon soda. Flour 
to mix as soft as possible. Roll thin, sift sugar over them and 
gently roll it in. Mrs. Will Harris. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one pint butter, three eggs, 
carbonite of ammonia one inch square, dissolved in one pint 
sweet milk, teaspoon of oil of lemon, flour to mix soft dough. 

Mrs. Mary Beard. 

Mrs. Caroline Bassett. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

Half cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, three tea- 
spoons vanilla, three cups flour, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der, half cup Baker's chocolate. Put the sugar, flour, baking 
powder and chocolate together and stir thoroughly, whip the 
eggs, butter and vanilla well together and add a little at a time 
of dry part and stir well. Mrs. Ella Freise. 

THIN RICH COOKIES. 

One cup of granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, three 



144 

eggs. Don't beat eggs. One teaspoon of baking powder, one 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, flour enough to roll : knead the 
dough as little as possible, and sprinkle sugar on top, bake in 
good hot oven until light brown. Minnie Simpson. 

SPICE COOKIES. 

One cup butter milk, one cup lard, two cups sugar, two 
eggs, and one teaspoon each of soda, salt, cinnamon and cloves, 
and a little nutmeg. Add flour to mix very soft. Do not roll, 
but mould in little balls about the size of a hulled walnut. Place 
in pan and flatten with the fingers. Cookies will be more moist 
than if there is flour enough to roll. Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

One and one-half tablespoon lard or butter, two and one- 
half cups sugar, one and one-half cups sour cream, three eggs 
(beaten separately), one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon baking 
powder, one teaspoon lemon extract, one teaspoon vanilla ex- 
tract ; add soda to sour cream, baking powder to flour, add flour 
sufficient to roll. Mrs. T. D. Winders. 

Miss Lizzie McCrea. 
Mary E. Dutt. 
Minnie Laird. 

OAT MEAL COOKIES. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one 
cup raisins, chopped, six tablespoons sweet milk, two cups 
flour, two cups rolled oats (good measure), and one teaspoon 
soda. Drop from teaspoon into ungreased pan. 

Mrs. H. C. Morse. 

OAT MEAL COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one and half cups sugar (brown), 
two or three eggs, one cup sour milk, one cup raisins, one-half 



145 

cup nuts, two cups oatmeal (two cups flour, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cinnamon (drop them). 

Jessie I. Scott. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, mix soft as possible. Adaline Dool. 

OAT MEAL CRACKERS. 

Two cups sugar, two cups lard, one and one-half cups of 
raisins, chopped or ground, four cups flour, four cups oatmeal, 
four eggs, one heaping teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda in one 
cup hot water. Mix, and let stand over night. Roll and cut 
in squares and bake. Mrs. Kate Lewis. 

LEMON CRACKERS. 

One cup butter and two cups sugar, beaten to a cream 
with the hand, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
two tablespoons of sweet milk and the grated peel of a lemon 
or the powder, or flavoring. Knead very hard and roll very 
thin; when baked the light may be seen through. 

Mrs. Chris' Thede. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, white of an egg, all 
well beaten together, one teaspoon cream of tartar, half tea- 
spoon soda, half cup water, and graham flour enough to roll 
thin. Cut in squares, prick with a fork, then bake quickly un- 
til done, crisp. Mrs. Chris Thede. 

GINGER DROP CAKES. 

One cup molasses, half cup brown sugar, half cup butter, 
one tablespoon of ginger, two teaspoons of soda in one cup of 
hot water, three cups flour, two eggs. Bake on buttered tins. 

Carrie Canum. 



146 
GINGER CAKES. 

One cup molasses, one cup of sour cream, half cup brown 
sugar, one egg, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one teaspoon ginger, three heaping cups of flour, bake in gem 
pans. 

ICING FOR THE CAKES. 

One cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of water, boil until it 
threads. Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, then pour the 
syrup on the egg, stirring all the time; beat until it thickens 
and frost the cakes. Mrs. Frank Irvin. 



\i 



GINGER SNAPS. 



One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter, or lard 
and butter mixed, two eggs, one tablespoon ginger, one table- 
spoon soda, one tablespoon vinegar, a little salt dissolved in 
a little warm water. Add the vinegar to the soda. Let it 
foam well. Flour enough to roll. Lizzie P. McCrea. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Two cups of Orleans molasses, one cup of lard, half cup 
of white sugar, three tablespoons of water, one tablespoon of 
soda, one tablespoon of ginger; boil molasses and lard and 
pour boiling hot over sugar, ginger and soda, and stir. When 
cool enough to mix add flour. It is not necessary to stir all 
the time it is cooling. Mrs. H. E. Bigelow. 

Susie Guthrie Brown. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one and a half cups mo- 
lasses, two eggs, one cup of butter, one cup of lard, one table- 
spoon of ginger, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one small tea- 
spoon of cloves, one tablespoon of soda dissolved in a half cup 
of hot water. Good with one cup of shortening. 

Mrs. W. W. Moorhead. 



147 
DOUGHNUTS. 

Mix two heaping teaspoons Royal baking powder with 
one quart flour, beat two eggs with one cup sugar, adding one 
cup sweet milk, flavor with nutmeg. Mix all together, reserv- 
ing a little flour for rolling out, fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. A. K. Philleo. 
Mrs. E. S. Strickland. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup light brown sugar, one tablespoon melted lard, 
two eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, nutmeg to 
taste, flour enough to handle. Ruth A. Carter. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sour cream, half cup sour milk; beat together 
with one teaspoon of soda, two cups of sugar, three eggs, fla- 
vor with nutmeg and cinnamon, add flour till stiff enough to 
roll out. If they soak up too much lard, knead more flour in. 
Have in a saucer some powdered sugar and sprinkle over them 
when partly cool. A sugar shaker is better. 

Mrs. F. L. Moses. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Sugar and sweet milk, of each one cup, two eggs, baking 
powder one and a half teaspoons, melted lard six tablespoons, 
flour to make as soft as can be rolled. Cut into any shape de- 
sired and fry carefully. Allie Dool. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint butter milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, three tea- 
spoons butter, two-thirds teaspoon cream tartar, one heaping 
teaspoon soda, flavoring to suit taste, preferably nutmeg, mix 
soft. Mrs. Bert Acord. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Sift one heaping teaspoon soda with one quart flour into 



148 

a mixing bowl, make a nest of the flour into which put one and 
one-half teacups granulated sugar, one teacup sour milk, one 
egg, well beaten, a little salt and flavoring. Stir these ingre- 
dients into enough of the surrounding flour to make a smooth 
batter. Into this batter dip three tablespoons hot lard (hot 
enough to fry cakes in), mixing each spoonful thoroughly be- 
fore adding the next. When stiff enough roll out, cut in rings, 
and fry. Lizzie P. McCrea. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. . ., 

One yeast cake soaked in one pint warm water, two cups 
sweet milk, three cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, (warm 
butter in milk until soft), one nutmeg grated. Add all the in- 
gredients together, stir in as much flour as can be stirred in 
with a spoon, let raise over night. In morning roll out and cut 
in rings, let raise till light, then fry in hot lard. 

O. J. Lorimer. 



CHAFING DISHES. 

"Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both." — 
Shakespeare. 

FRIED OYSTERS IN BATTER. 

Beat two eggs light with one-third teaspoon of pepper, 
and one teaspoon salt ; add three-fourths cup milk mixed with 
one cup flour. Dip oysters in batter and fry in hot lard. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Melt a large tablespoon butter, rub into it a tablespoon of 
flour, a teaspoon salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a little celery 
salt and juice of half a lemon. Add one pint of milk and cook 
until thick. Add one can of lobsters, flaked, cook a little long- 
er, pour over toast. Mrs. Rose W. Church. 



149 
PINON CHI. 

Two pounds brown sugar, one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, one cup milk, one cup chopped walnut meats. 
Boil the sugar, butter and milk about fifteen minutes, stirring 
most of the time. Remove from heat, add nuts and flavoring. 
Beat five minutes, then spread on buttered plates and cut in 
squares. Ruth Guthrie. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

Two cups cold chicken cut up small; one cup milk or 
cream ; one cup chicken stock, one heaping tablespoon of flour, 
two tablespoons of butter, salt and pepper. Cook the butter 
and flour together in chafing dish, to which add stock and 
milk and stir until smooth. Put in chicken and cook three 
minutes longer. Season to* taste. Ethel Tubbs, Alexis. 

CREAM OYSTERS. 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in the chafing dish with 
two tablespoons of flour, one pint of rich cream or milk, one 
pint of oysters, salt and pepper to taste. Serve on wafers or 
in pattie shells. Bess Bassett. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One pound of American cheese, one cup of cream or milk, 
two eggs, one tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper to* taste, 
and a dash of cayenne. Just before serving add a half a tea- 
spoon of soda. Cut the cheese into little pieces, place it in the 
chafing dish and stir as it heats, and when it begins to melt 
add the butter. As soon as it begins to look smooth add the 
eggs, lightly beaten, and then the milk. Stir constantly, cook- 
ing until smooth, and of desired consistency. Season and 
serve on wafers at once. Mabel Clare Miller. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add one quart of mush- 



150 

rooms, cook about ten minutes or until tender, turning often. 
Season with salt and add a little more butter. Serve hot on 
toast. Pearl Love. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS 

In the blazer melt one rounding tablespoonful of butter, 
and stir smooth in it one and one-half level tablespoons of 
flour. Add slowly two-thirds cup of milk. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper, after stirring in one-half pounds of mush- 
rooms. Cook up thoroughly and before serving add one-half 
tablespoon of lemon juice and six stuffed olives cut in thin 
slices. Serve hot in timbale cases. 



SANDWICHES. 



'We only part to meet again. — Gay. 

CHEESE AND CELERY SANDWICHES. 

Whip half teacup thick cream, add sufficient Parmesan 
or any mild cheese grated to form a thick paste, spread on let- 
tuce leaf on buttered bread and sprinkle thickly with chopped 
celery. Katherine McManus. 

DUTCH CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Take Dutch cheese seasoned with plenty of salt and pep- 
per and mix with it chopped olives to suit the taste. Spread 
on thin slices of bread and put a lettuce leaf between and cut 
into fancy shapes. Mrs. M. G. Reynolds. 

MEAT SANDWICHES. 

Boil tenderloin or any lean fresh pork, leaving enough 
liquor to moisten it. After it is chopped fine, and well season- 
ed, spread between thin slices of bread. Mrs. M. G. Reynolds. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Mince the whites of hard boiled eggs in a bowl and after- 



151 

• 

wards mince the yolks in the same way, then mix them togeth- 
er and rub through a sieve. Soften to the right consistency for 
spreading upon thin slices of buttered bread by using mayon- 
naise or cream dressing. Mrs. M. G. Reynolds. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Make thin bread and butter sandwiches ; on one slice lay a 
lettuce, slice stuffed olives on this and cover with a thick may- 
onnaise. Press top slice on very gently. Katherine McManus. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Mash the yolks of hard boiled eggs with a little mustard, 
salt and pepper and melted butter, in the proportion of one 
tablespoon to three yolks. Just before putting between the 
thin slices of bread, add the whites of the eggs, finely chopped. 

Bess V. Sponsler. 

WALNUT SANDWICHES. 

Chop the nuts very fine and add either salad dressing or 
cream cheese. Season well. Sandwiches with this filling are 
particularly good when made with good brown bread. 

Bess V. Sponsler. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 

Cut fresh, crisp celery in tiny pieces; then add the may- 
onnaise dressing and hard boiled eggs mashed to a paste. 

Bess V. Sponsler. 

MINCED HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mince fine, cold boiled ham, season to taste with vinegar 
and prepared mustard until of right consistency for spread- 
ing. If enough vinegar has been used and it is still a little 
stiff a few drops of water may be added. Spread between 
thin slices of buttered bread. Chopped hard boiled eggs may 
be added. Katherine McManus. 



152 
MANGO SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of bread with butter and mayonnaise 
dressing. Cut fresh sweet mango pickles in narrow strips 
and place between slices. Keep sandwiches in a cold place 
until used. Mrs. Sarah E. Love. 

FIG SANDWICHES. 

Cut the figs fine. Twice as much water as figs, and half 
as much sugar as figs. Let boil to a syrup. Let cool and 
spread on bread for sandwich. Famie Dool. 

LOVE SANDWICHES. 

Cut fresh bread into thin hearts, spread sparingly with 
excellent butter, then with chopped dates, figs and a few new 
walnuts; press the pieces neatly together and arrange them 
about some green foilage; garnish with pimolas or olives. 

Mrs. M. G. Reynolds. 

SUGAR AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered whole wheat bread 
with equal quantities of light brown sugar and grated cheese, 
two tablespoons of each. Cover each sandwich with same- 
sized slice of white bread buttered. Mrs. M. G. Reynolds. 

ORANGE BUTTER SANDWICHES. 

Take two hard boiled eggs, put in a mortar with an 
ounce of butter, a tablespoon of thick cream, an ounce of 
blanched chopped almonds, two ounces sugar, the grated rind 
of an orange. Pound all and moisten with orange juice until 
a soft paste is formed. Put in cool place until you want to 
use. Serve on thin bread and butter in the form of a sand- 
wich. Mrs. M. G. Reynolds. 



153 



CONFECTIONERY. 

"Sweets to ihe sweet." — Hamlet. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two and a half cups brown sugar, one cup of warm 
water, one tablespoon of butter, half cup of Baker's chocolate; 
boil together until stiff, then pour into pans until cold, and 
cut into squares. Mamie Henderson. 

CARAMELS. 

One cup molasses, half cup sugar, half cup milk, one 
tablespoon butter, two tablespoons grated chocolate; boil well 
and pour on buttered pans. Bessie Bigelow. 

VANILLA CARAMELS. 

Two cups granulated sugar, two-thirds cup sweet milk, 
filled with butter (not melted), half teaspoon vanilla. Stir 
until it begins to boil; not again. Cook about 25 minutes or 
until it turns a light brown. Pour out on buttered tin and 
when partly cooled mark off in squares with a sharp knife. 

Lila Crosby. 

COCOANUT BONBONS. 

Add enough pulverized sugar and grated cocoanut to the 
white of one egg and equal amount of water so that it can 
be made into balls; lay them on a greased plate. Take one 
cup water, two cups sugar and boil until creamy, then add one 
teaspoon of vanilla. Set the dish containing this mixture on 
another filled with boiling water so it will not get hard. Roll 
the balls in it and lay on greased plates to harden. 

Lutie M. Chamberlin. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites of two eggs well beaten, one pint of fine sugar; 



154 

beat well; add three spoonfuls of cocoanut; drop on buttered 
pans and bake slowly. Bessie Bigelow. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One cup granulated sugar, half cup hot water; boil very 
hard for 2 or 3 minutes or until it jellies in water; cool it 
almost; beat very fast until it creams. Mrs. Alvah Jay. 

NUT CANDY. 

Two cups granulated sugar to one cup broken nuts; 
(hickory nuts, peanuts or English walnuts can be used) melt 
the sugar in a granite-iron kettle or skillet without water 
over a hot fire stirring constantly. Put the nuts on well but- 
tered plates and pour the melted sugar over. Clara Butler. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, half cup water, four tablespoons of 
vinegar, one teaspoon of butter ; boil 20 minutes, remove from 
stove; add one teaspoon vanilla; pull; do not stir. R. H. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, four tablespoons vinegar, half cup water. 
Boil until crisp in water and pull. Flavor with vanilla, lemon 
or strawberry. Miss Lila Crosby. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Four cups sugar, one and one-half cups cold water, pinch 
of salt, one cup cream. Boil sugar thoroughly mixed with 
water until almost water. Pour in cream then and boil until 
candy strikes hard against side of cup, when tested in cold 
water. Do not stir. Cook in deep pot to prevent boiling 
over; pull candy one-half hour and keep in air tight bucket. 

Mrs. A. K. Philleo. 

FUDGES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, butter the size of a 
walnut, one-sixth of a cake of chocolate; boil; drop a little 



155 

in water and if it hardens it is done. When done, set pan 
in cold water and stir until it gets about as thick as mush, 
then pour on buttered platter and cut in squares. 

Nellie Radcliffe Wolff. 

MAPLE NUT FUDGE. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup milk, butter size of 
walnut, one tablespoon maple cream, boil, drop a little in water 
and if it hardens it is done. Add nuts, when done set pan 
in cold water and stir until it gets about as thick as mush, 
then pour on buttered pans. Famie Dool. 

MAPLE CREAM. 

Take half as much water as maple sugar; cook without 
stirring and when almost done put in a small piece of butter. 
When it begins to harden take it off the fire and stir rapidly 
until it becomes a waxen substance. Then divide into balls, 
and if you wish, enclose each ball between two halves of 
English walnuts; set to cool. Miss Lila Crosby. 

DIVINITY CANDY. 

Six cups sugar, three cups cream, two cups golden table 
syrup, two pounds of nuts (English walnuts of pecans). 
Cook until it forms a soft ball, then beat hard for twenty 
or forty minutes, then stir in nuts before putting in a well 
greased pan. Mrs. Robert L. Watson. 

VINEGAR CANDY. 

Three cups sugar, half cup water, half cup vinegar; stir 
before putting on the stove, but not after. When partly 
done add one teaspoon of butter. Before removing from the 
stove stir in one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in a few drops 
of hot water; when cool enough to handle, pull white with 
the tips of the fingers. Mrs. B. *F. Townsley, 

Mamie Henderson. 



156 
CRACKER JACK. 

Three quarts of popped corn, being careful to remove un- 
popped kernels. Over the corn pour the following mixtures : 

Two cups molasses, one cup brown sugar, butter the size 
of a walnut, one tablespoon vinegar. Boil until brittle when 
tried in cold water; before removing from fire stir in half a 
teaspoon of baking soda. Mrs. George David. 

STUFFED DATES. 

Take fine large dates and split down the side; take out 
seed as neatly as possible. Prepare a filling of figs chopped 
fine and boiled well with sugar; take nuts and chop fine. 

When figs are done make a stiff filling of these ingredi- 
ents and stuff the dates, pressing the dates as solid as pos- 
sible. Garnish with powdered sugar. Mrs. Agnes Morev. 

PANOCHE. 

Three cups of brown sugar, three-fourths of a cup of 
milk, three-fourths of a tablespoon of butter; cook and stir 
until it creams. Add a teaspoon of vanilla; beat until it 
begins to grain. Stir in hickory nuts or walnuts (chopped if 
you like.) Put on greased platters. Cut when it begins to 
harden. Geraldine Emerson. 

COCOANUT BALLS. 

Cook together for five minutes, stirring all the time, a 
half pound grated cocoanut, half pound of granulated sugar 
and one tgg, the white only (unbeaten). Take from the fire 
and when cool make in balls the size of English walnuts, 
dust thickly with sugar and put in oven to brown a delicate 
brown. Mrs. Bessie Nelson. 

COCOANUT BARS OR SLICES. 

The cocoanut is prepared the same way, the only differ- 
ence is to stir it until it is sugary, that is white and a little 



157 

stiff, then it is poured on a marble that has been greased, 
(not wet like for the cakes), then cut in slices the desired size. 

Mrs. E. L. Schambra. 

COCOANUT CAKES. 

One cocoanut, two pounds white sugar, half pint water. 
Put the sugar and water to boil until it is thick enough to 
drop from spoon, then add the grated cocoanut, a little at a 
time, (it must be stirred -constantly to prevent sticking to 
the pan), boil for a few minutes then take from the fire and 
make in cakes; they must be made on a board that has to be 
kept wet. Have a little water and cloth near for that pur- 
pose. The cakes will be a little soft when cut from the board. 
A bread board is just the thing. Do not forget to keep it 
wet or they will not cut loose. Turn them as they are cut up- 
side down to dry. Mrs. E. E- Schambra. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cup Xew Orleans molasses, two-thirds cup butter, 
two cups powdered sugar, pinch of soda. Boil until it just 
hardens in cold water. Pour in thin sheets to cool. 

Lila Crosby. 



BEVERAGES. 



"The cups that cheer but not inebriate." — Cowper. 

COCOA. 

The usual rule is one teaspoon cocoa to each cup. Mix 
dry cocoa with a little cold water, add scalded milk and water 
and boil two minutes. Sweeten to taste. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

For four heaping tablespoons ground coffee allow one 
quart freshly boiling water and half white of one raw egg. 
Mix the egg white with three tablespoons cold water, beat- 



158 

ing with fork. Add coffee and stir till well wet. Scald coffee 
pot, put in prepared coffee; pour in boiling water, cover spout, 
and boil five minutes. Pour in quickly one-fourth cup cold 
water, let stand three minutes to settle. Strain into hot pot 
or have strainer on table. 

FLAX SEED LEMONADE. 

Two tablespoons flax seed and one pint boiling water. 
Let stand several hours, strain and add the juice of a lemon; 
sweeten to taste. This is nourishing, refreshing and excellent 
for fever and cough. Jessie I. Scott. 

CHOCOLATE. 

One square unsweetened chocolate, one tablespoon sugar 
or more if wanted. Two tablespoons hot water. Grate 
chocolate, boil all together till smooth, add gradually one 
pint scalded milk, cook in double boiler five minutes. Some 
all a little vanilla. It can be made stronger by using more 
chocolate. 

SWEET WINE. 

One gallon grapes picked from the stems, one quart wa- 
ter. Boil together and strain. Add one quart water and 
three-fourths pound of sugar. Boil and seal. 

Mrs. J. H. Ramsey. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Four quarts red raspberries to one quart of cider vine- 
gar; let stand 24 hours, mash and strain through cheese 
cloth. To each pint of juice add one pound of sugar, boil 20 
minutes ; bottle and keep in cool place. Two tablespoons in 
glass of ice water. Daily News Cook Book. 



t 



159 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

"Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well." — Earl of 
Chesterfield. 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS, ETC. 

Melt one cup of sugar with one tablespoon of water; stir 
until it becomes of a dark brown color; add one cup of boil- 
ing water; simmer 10 minutes, and bottle when cool. 

Mrs. E. J. McKinney. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

One pound of pulverized sugar, whites of six eggs, yolks 
of two eggs, three lemons, including grated rinds and juice; 
boil 20 minutes over a slow fire; stir all the while. 

Mrs. H. Sellers. 

CREAM GRUEL. 

Put one and one-half pints of water on the stove in a 
sauce pan, take one tablespoon of flour and the same of corn 
meal ; mix these with cold water and as the water in the 
sauce pan boils, stir it in slowly. Let it boil slowly about 
twenty minutes, stirring constantly, then add a little salt, 
and a gill of sweet cream. Do not let it boil afterward. 

Mrs. C. W. Dryden. 

HOW TO CAN CORN. 

Cut the corn from the cob and pack it into Mason jars 
so closely that the juice will rise on top. Fill the jar full-; 
put the rubber and cap both on, leaving the cap a little loose; 
wrap each jar in a cloth, place in a boiler of water (the water 
must cover the jars) ; boil three hours; take out and tighten 
caps immediately. Mrs. C. K. Marquis. 



• 



160 
CANNED CORN. 

Dissolve one ounce of tartaric acid in half cup water, 
and take one tablespoon to two quarts of sweet corn; cook; 
put in cans and seal. When used, pour off the liquid, add 
water, a little soda and sugar while cooking, and season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Laura E. Love. 

CORN VINEGAR. 

Cut from cob one pint of corn; take one pint of brown 
sugar and molasses to one gallon of rain water, add corn, put 
in jar, cover with cloth and in three weeks you will have 
good vinegar. Nellie Graham. 

GREEN CORN. 

Scald as for drying, then cut off; lay a layer of salt in 
a stone jar, then a layer of corn, then salt, and so on till the 
jar is full ; lay a plate next and put heavy weight on it ; tie a 
cloth over top ; keep in cellar. This will keep two years. 

Mrs. Eveline Davison. 

TO CAN SAUSAGE. 

The sausage is made in the usual manner, then made 
into cakes and cooked through, packed in half gallon cans, 
hot lard poured over it and sealed up. This will be nice in 
mid-summer. Mrs. Mary Holmes. 

BAKING POWDER. 

Six ounces of tartaric acid, eight ounces of baking soda, 
one quart of flour; sift six times to thoroughly mix ingred- 
ients. Procure good material and use same quantity as any 
other baking powder. Mrs. J. F. Henderson. 

TO KEEP EGGS FOR Wi'INTER. 

One pint of air slacked lime, two pints of salt, three and 
a half gallons of water ; mix well _and let stand 24 hours, 
drain off, rinse jar of sediment, put back in jar and drop in 



161 

fresh eggs. Be careful to put no cracked ones in. One-half 
this quantity will do for ten dozen eggs. Mrs. M. Sponsler. 

CURING MEAT. 

To one gallon of water take one and a half pounds of 
salt, half pound of sugar, half ounce of saltpeter, one-half 
ounce of potash; in this ratio the pickle is to be increased to 
any quantity. Boil these together until all the dirt from the 
sugar rises to the fop and is skimmed off; then throw it into 
a tub to cool and when cool, pour it over the beef or pork to re- 
main the usual time, say 4 or 5 weeks. The meat must be 
well covered with the pickle, and should not be put down for 
at least 2 days after killing, during which time it should be 
slightly sprinkled with pow 7 dered saltpeter to remove all the 
surface blood, leaving meat fresh and clean. Some omit boil- 
ing the pickle, though the boiling purifies by throwing off the 
dirt always to be found in salt and sugar. If this recipe is 
properly tried it will never be abandoned. There is none that 
surpasses it, if any so good. It is not necessary to use the 
saltpeter. Mrs. J. F. Henderson. 

TO SERVE ONE HUNDRED PERSONS. 

Ham, sixteen pounds; chickens, six; turkeys, two; oys- 
ters, 10 cans; coffee, two pounds; bread, eight loaves; Sara- 
toga potatoes, eight quarts; layer cakes, five; angel food, five; 

ice cream, four gallons. 

Mrs. Eliza Smith, Monmouth. 

TO LAUNDRY FINE TABLE LINEN. 

In Avashing linen do not wring through a wringer as 
that will crease it, hang it on the line a little while but be- 
fore it begins to dry take it down and fold for ironing. In 
ironing press on the iron as hard as possible. In ironing the 
first side do not iron quite dry as that will dry the opposite 
side perfectly dry. Iron the first side again in folding. You 



162 

will find by not allowing the linen to dry it will iron ever so 
much smoother and have a nicer gloss, than if allowed to dry. 
Xever starch the linen. Mrs. I. S. Detwiler. 

PREPARATION FOR THE HANDS. 

Juice of four lemons, five cents worth of glycerine, five 
cents worth of cologne, a very little carbolic acid, one pint of 
soft water. Mrs. J. YV. Haughey, Wellington, Kans. 

LEMON EXTRACT. 

Five ounces of alcohol, rind of two large lemons soaked 
in it for a couple of days ; strain and bottle for use. 

Mary Cummins. 

BLUING FOR WASHING. 

One ounce of Chinese bluing, one-half ounce of oxalic 
acid : dissolve in one quart of rain water. 

Mary Cummins. 

TO DRY SALT. 

A nice way to dry salt for table use is to add corn starch 
in the proportion of one teaspoon of cornstarch to one cup of 
salt.' Olive Willits Cawthron. 

REMEDY FOR CHOLERA. 

One tablespoon of salt, one tablespoon of red pepper in 
one-half pint of hot water. Captain G. S. Peabody says he 
himself was attacked by violent cholera, cramps, etc. He 
adds. "The medicine carried me through." The medicine 
acts quickly as an emetic and brings up the offensive matter. 
Its use is quite general in Liverpool, where even some of the 
regular doctors find it to their advantage to resort to it. 

TO KEEP MEAT FRESH 

Take six gallons of water, three pounds salt, one and a 
half pounds brown sugar, three ounces of black pepper, three 
ounces of common cooking soda, three ounces oi saltpeter. 



163 

drim and cool. Pack your meat in a jar and poor your 
brine over it. 1 r beef. For pork use 5 pounds of 

salt. Mrs. Reynolds. 

TO BANISH RED ANTS. 

Wash places in: with red ants thoroughly in strong 

la water. 

HOW TO COOK HUSBANDS. 

Many husbands are utterly spoiled by mismanagement 
in cooking-, and are not tender and good. Some women go 
about it as eir husbands were bladders, and blow them 

up : others keep them constantly in hot water ; others let diem 
freeze by rekssness and indifference- 

keep them in a stew by their irritating ways and words: oth- 
iem and keep them in a pickle all their hves. 

It cam ipposed that any husband will be tender and good 

t they are really delicious when 
properly treated. I g your husba u should not 

be g appearance as in buying mackerel, 

by the golden tint, as if you wanted salmon. Be sur- 
:im yc: Do not g :he m a ik e t 

for him. as the best are always brought to the door. It is far 
better to have none unless 1 patiently learn how to 

k him. A preserving kettle of the finest porcelain is die 
best. See that the linen in which you wrap him is nicely wash- 
ed and mended, with the required number of buttons and 
ved on. Tie him in a by a strong silken cord 

called comfort as the one called ot to be weak. He 

:md be burned and crusty on tne 

ges, -abs and lob^ -ou ha cook him 

while alive. Make a clear stea eatness 

and cheerful::— set him as near t". -eems to agree with 

him. If he spu: I fizzes, do not be anxious about him; 



• 



164 

some husbands do this until they are quite done. Add a little 
sugar in the form of what confectioners call kisses, but no 
vinegar or pepper must be used on any account. A little 
spice improves them, but it must be used with care and judg- 
ment. Do not stick any sharp instrument into him to see if 
he is becoming tender; stir him gently, watch the while, and 
you cannot fail to know when he is done. If thus treated 
you will find him very digestible, agreeing nicely with you 
and the children, and he will keep as long as you wish, un- 
less you become careless and set him in too cold a place. 

MEASUREMENTS. 

When recipes are found which deal with pounds and 
ounces, and scales are not at hand, the weights may be trans- 
lated into level measurements. By level measurements are 
meant a spoon or cup filled full of dry material, then leveled 
off smooth. Flour is sifted before being lifted in to the cup 
or spoon. Use always a measuring cup divided into thirds 
and quarters. 

2 cups lard make i pound. 

2 cups butter make I pound. 

4 cups pastry or bread flour make i pound. 

3 y-S cups entire wheat flour make i pound. 
41-2 cups graham flour make 1 pound. 
41-3 cups rye flour make 1 pound. 

2 3-4 cups corn meal make 1 pound. 

4 3-4 cups rolled oats make 1 pound. 
2 3-4 cups oat meal make 1 pound. 
41-3 cups coffee make 1 pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar make 1 pound. 
2 2-3 cups powdered sugar make 1 pound. 
31-2 cups confectioner's sugar make 1 pound. 
2 3-4 cups brown sugar make 1 pound. 



165 

2 cups chopped meat make I pound. 
2 cups raisins (packed) make I pound. 
21-4 cups currants make 1 pound. 
2 cups stale bread crumbs make 1 pound. 
9 large eggs make 1 pound. 

2 tablespoons of butter make 1 ounce. 
4 tablespoons of flour make 1 ounce. 

6 tablespoons of baking powder make 1-2 ounce. 

3 teaspoons make 1 tablespoon. 

16 tablespoons dry ingredients make 1 cup. 

Mrs. J. H. Ramsey. 



MENUS. 

LUNCHEONS. 

Fruit Slush 

Chicken Patties Cold Tongue 

Olives Almonds 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Shrimp Salad Cheese Wafers Pickles 

Brick Ice Cream Strawberries 

Fruit Cake. White Cake 

Mints Coffee 



Iced Watermelon 
Tongue Potato Croquettes Scalloped Corn 

Rolls, Butter Strawberry Jello 

Pea Salad Wafers Olives 

Lemon Ice Marshmallow Cake 

Coffee 

* * * 

Grape Juice 

Pressed Meat Potato Chips Pea Patties 

Rolls and butter Spiced Peaches 



166 

Salmon Salad Wafers Olives 

Maple Bisque Banana Cake 

Lemon Wafers Coffee 

* * * 

FOR PARTIES, RECEPTIONS, ETC. 

Chicken Salad . Wafers 

Pickles Salted ABmonds 

Strawberry Cream Nut Cake 

Coffee 

* * * 

Scalloped Oysters Sandwiches 

Pickles Olives 

Marguerites Coffee 

* * * 

Chopped Fruit in Jelly with Whipped Cream. 

Cake Mint Wafers 

Lemon Punch 

* * * 

Ice Cream Cake 

Nuts. 
Grape Punch 

* * * 

DINNERS. 

Baked White Fish with Dressing 

Sandwiches Water 

Pressed Chicken Creamed Potatoes 

Pickles Rolls Jelly 

Fruit Salad Salted Almonds 

Shrimp Salad 
Cheese Fingers Olives 



167 



Strawberries Ice Cream 

Angel Food Marguerites 

Coffee. 



Boullion Wafers 

Stewed Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Fruit Salad Rolls Jelly 

Pea Patties Lettuce Sandwiches Olives 

Orange Sherbet White Cake 

Cream Mints Coffee 



Fried Chicken Mashed Potatoes Gravy 

Rolls Butter Jelly 

Fruit Salad Olives 

English Plum Pudding with Sauce 

Peaches Whipped Cream Cake 

Coffee 

* # * 



Veal Loaf 




Scalloped Potatoes 


Salmon Salad 




Cucumbers 


Peas 


Celery 


Olives 


Rolls 


Lemon Pie 


Butter 


Chocolate Cream 




Raspberries 


Cake 




Coffee 



168 



z 

I— I 

> 

o 

» 

& 

o 

Q 
O 
DC 

H 

m 



G 

o 

a 

"d 

G 

g 



CO 4-> 



-g 
59 

.g 

a 

c 



CD 1C 

.5 '« 


£ 


o 


$% 


40 


« CD 


CD 
> 


G s_ 


o 


cd *i 




<_ co 




a o 


s 

o 






CD CO 


4-> 


3* 


o 


G o 


a *J 


4-1 CO 


, CD 


O r* 
"5 'cd 


'O CD 
CD IM 

3 1 


to +■» 


■°ecj 


2 * 


*> rH 


G w 


2 o 
Oh «i5 


CD CO 


«H CD 


CO O 



d 

c 

Q 



03 



5 -a 

CD G 

jo G 

-a b 

S 2 g 

CD -- * 
43 _G CD 

«^31 Kl 

•— i co > Z} 

. l_l "-5 -00 

4*i G 

= ,*o 

'G p^H ^^ rrt 

J&2 c«2 

o G~*G ed 



.So 

4-> C 
CO 



co co 

CD 

CD -Sj 

co 3 

=> G 



G • 



cd £ 
*•§ 

CO O 
CD O 
s-i co 



•2* 

AS 

ed g 

4-> M 
QQ 

«t-i o 



co cd 

. ^ 
S cd 



m 



4-> O 

O JG 

G cd 



43 



cd 

G 
ed 



- 



 ti -+ > 



G 



CD 








o 






G 














CO 








o 






cd 














► 








cd 






43 

4-1 








T3 
G 






£ 








ed 






CD 






+-> 






G 
CD 

<4-l 


> 




G 


CD 






O 

s 


T3 


o 


G 






O 


CD 


01 


4-> 






co 


- B 


<1> 


O 


O 






T3 


o 


ft 


43 


X5 






G 




CO 


43 


G 






a 


TO 


o 


4-> 


« 






^ 


cd 


4-> 


^ 








od 


43 


o 


CO 


/^N 






o 

co 


b 

CD 
> 

G 
O 

4-» 


G 


co 
8 


4-> 

o 






>> 

u 

S3 


CD 

'cd 

CD 

■oc 
G 


Oh 

G 
ed 


rG 

4-> 
O 

G 

U 






CD 


3 


co 

G 


CD 

Oh 

ed 


CD 

cd 


CO 


co 
G 


MH 


CO 

ft 


!- 

CD 


Oh 
4-> 


£ 


o 
X3 


ed 

4-> 

co 


.2 

CD 

— 

cd 


od 

o 

co 
.5 


G 
CD 
ej 

O 

4-> 


G 
CD 

M 

O 
co 


a 

c 

cd 


cd 


4-1 

1 


g CD 
CD 2 

Sc 

ed cd 

co j3 

G- 

2 -a 


CD 
G 

CO 


CD 

2 

'co 

4-1 


X3 

cd 

G 
o 


re 

a 

a 

Oh 


•— 
.2 

G 


co 
ed 

CD 

s 


G 
G 

CO 

.s 


o 

e 

o 

t-i 


co 

O 
O 
■OO 


cd 
o 
co 


G 

CO 

O 

4-< 

CD 


ed 

CO 
CD 

4-> 


CD 


•R 


CD 


X3 


CO 

o 

Q, 
X 

H 


4-1 


G^ 
Kg 


CD 

cd 


-O 

G 


CD 

sd 


CO . 

ed >> 


cd 

CD 

H 



CO 

Z 

< 





u 




CD 


cd c; 

4J TM 

ed G 


4-> 

cd 

■oc 


■J=! -o 


G 




'o 




m 



»1 J 

o cd co 

^CD.^ 
G3 O 

*5 cd ed c_ 



CO 

cd 
IS 




_CD 




CD 
G 


G 
G 




G 

a 


u 

CD 

4-1 

GX 








CD 




N 








^ Si 

g- 
G co 




Ui 






> 




G 


T3 




S-, 




CD 


G 

CD 

-G . 


G 

1 


od 

•-a 




CD 


G 

a 




CD 

Oh 

ed 




4-1 

G 


4J U 


G 




-G 


G 




Oh 


> G 


G 




m 


o 




G 


o 






G 


•OO 


ed ? 


O 


CD U 




s 

CD 


33 

G 


CD 

4-> 

(Tl 


Oo 
< 


t-i 

"Ss 

G O 
O 

Oh h 

G O 
O 
CO 


0!J 


.b! 


co T3 

^r"o 
G w 
° c 

G3.G 


G 
O 

s 

CD 

h-3 


G^ 
CO 


o 

43 
O 
CD 

< 


a 

CO 

> 


O CD 
co C 

oS 

ed co 
o 

CO 


2 
'o 
O 




o 
jo 

4-T 

"ed 

CO 



C/3 






ll 




O 




_ CD 




G 4-r 




CD G 




H-3 


G 


- o 




CD O 
«2 43 


£ 


igo 




o 










4*1 

G 











G 












CO 

1 


4-1 
CO 

G 
pfiS 

G 

o 
s 

t— 1 


co 
co 
G 

o 


4-> 

d 

'cd 

Oh 


.2 

*4-> 

G 
C 

'ft 
co 
E 
CD 

Oh 


O 

CD 

G 

CD 
G 


M 

G 


o 
o 

2 


43 
CD 
Eh 

O 
Q 

CO 


CD 

G 



cd 

CD 
»- CO 
O co 



I 






iiESiil^Li 



it 






UNIVERSfTY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA 



3 0112 083353604 



