
Lfxi$ iJook^ 
to 



Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. Ill, 1911 
COMPLETE IN FIVE NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1911 



T 



\l.3 



''V'BRARy^ 






THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Ill FEBRUARY, 191 1 No. i 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1911. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 

Extension, Miss Anna Barrows. 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Food and Nutrition, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Textiles and Clothing, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

The Family, Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 

Affiliated Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. 
Ithaca, N. Y. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



FEBRUARY I9II 

Third annual convention, American Home Economics Association 3 

Minutes of third annual meeting, American Home Economics Association 9 

Meeting of the Council 16 

Report of the Secretary 17 

Report of the Treasurer 19 

Program of the third annual convention 21 

Report on college courses in Home Economics 25 

A university standard in home science 29 

What courses in sociology, pure or applied, should be included in college de- 
partments of household science? (ieorge Elliott Howard t^T) 

Courses in sociology, Charles .\. Ellwood 44 

What courses in sociology, pure and applied, should be included in schoolsorcol- 

lege departments of household science? Anna Garlin S])cncer 47 

The education of girls in domestic sociology and the arts of homemaking. James 

Peter Warbasse 52 

Some practical aspects of the teaching of dietetics, Hester Ridlon 61 

Blackboard work in the teaching of domestic science, Elizabeth W. Saxton. ... 68 

Catering for high school students, Mrs. .\lice M. Hotchkin 71 

Report on the lunch room of the William Pcnn High School, Emma Smedley 74 

School luncheons, .Mice C. Boughton 79 

Diet in relation to growth, Gwendolyn Stewart 81 

Daily life in Italy, Ellen .\. Huntington 87 

On the dietary in use in the South Pacific Islands, John I. Large 90 

The stafT of life, G. W. Cowgill 92 

The leavening agent in salt-rising bread, Winona Woodward 100 

Editorials 102 

News from the field 105 

Books and literature 113 



THE 

Joiirnal^/Home Economics 

Vol. III. FEBRUARY, 191 1 No. i 

THIRD ANNUAL CONVENTION. 
AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The third annual meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was held in St. Louis, December 27 to 30, 1910, and brought 
together somewhat over 100 delegates, principally from the Middle 
West, but with some coming from New England, Texas, and Minne- 
sota. As in the preceding meetings, the attendance was primarily 
from the section of country nearest the place of meeting, but there was 
a scattering of delegates from far distant points, who made the meet- 
ing truly national in its character. The suggestion of one member, 
however, seems pertinent that the time may come when in such gather- 
ings, it will be necessary to recognize sectional lines and to provide, 
possibly, for simultaneous meetings in the East and in the West, 
with a joint national meeting in alternate years. 

Certain general features of the St. Louis meeting were obvious to 
all who attended. First of all the purpose of the Association in placing 
the meeting at St. Louis had been to secure the cooperation of the 
economic and social science associations which were to meet in St. 
Louis during the holidays, viz. the American Sociological Society, 
American Statistical Association, American Political Science Asso- 
ciation, American Association for Labor Legislation, and the Ameri- 
can Economic Association. This purpose was successfully accom- 
plished. 

It was with the Economic and Sociological Associations, especially, 
that cooperation had been sought, and the officers of these associa- 
tions were most kind in extending hospitality to our members, while 
several of their members took a prominent part on the Home Econom- 
ics program. Last year at the Boston convention, which met with 
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, there 



4 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

appeared on the Home Economics program papers by prominent 
chemists, physiologists, physicists, and others who pointed out the 
relationship of the natural sciences to household science, made sug- 
gestions regarding the development of courses of study, and in various 
ways brought to bear the results of their older sciences upon the newer 
field. A similar happy outcome was achieved at St. Louis. 

Forming the most important item on the program were the two or 
three meetings in which the economists and sociologists presented 
papers. On Wednesday evening, Professor David Kinley, Dean of 
the School of Commerce at the University of Illinois, presented a 
paper describing a course in applied economics which he had given at 
the University of Illinois for a number of years for the benefit of stu- 
dents in the department of household science. A discussion of this 
paper by Professor Frank Fetter of Cornell University was a contri- 
bution from one who has always been interested in the development 
of college instruction in household science. On the following evening 
Professor George E. Howard of the University of Nebraska gave a 
masterly survey of courses in sociology, pure or applied, which might 
be included in a college school of household science. Professor How- 
ard's outUne provided for undergraduate and graduate instruction, and 
sets an ultimate goal which, like the suggestions of Professor Kinley 
will be of the utmost help to those who have in charge the develop- 
ment of collegiate instruction in household science. Professor Ellwood 
of the University of Missouri, and Mrs. Anna Garland Spencer, of 
the University of Wisconsin, gave further contributions on the socio- 
logical program. 

Many additional papers on economic and sociological subjects 
appeared elsewhere on the program and were of the greatest interest, 
and point the way toward the development of profitable research and 
teaching in the application of economics to the household. Alto- 
gether the emphasis which the program placed upon economics and 
social topics marked a distinct advance upon any previous meeting 
of the Association. 

Another aspect of the meeting which could not fail to impress an 
observer was the interest shown by the organized club women of St. 
Louis in the meetings of the Association. The emphasis on economic 
topics indicated an effort to put a sound scientific foundation under- 
neath instruction in household science, while the effort to translate 
the lessons of science into a practical outcome for the housewife proved 
that Home Economics realizes its ultimate purpose. 



igii] Third Convention of the Association 5 

On the first evening at the convention, a meeting was held in the 
Wednesday Club Auditorium at which different members of the Asso- 
ciation, in brief informal addresses, presented different aspects of 
Home Economics as a practical movement for the betterment of house- 
hold management. The topics and speakers were as follows: Home 
Economics and the Home, by Miss Bevier; Nutrition, by Dr. Lang- 
worthy; The Campaign for Honest Food, by Mrs. Walter McNab 
Miller; Housing and Sanitation, by Miss Berry; Textiles, by Miss 
Crooks; Home Economics and the Institution, by Miss Corbett; and a 
summary, When Women's Work is Ordered by Science, by Mrs. 
Richards. 

Although disagreeable weather prevented a large attendance, all 
who were present gained a new sense of values. The Wednesday 
Club is one of the largest women's clubs in the country, with an active 
science section which is this winter studying problems of the house- 
hold. The members of the club were therefore interested from the 
first in the meetings of our Association, and the club organization was 
most courteous in extending every hospitality to our members. The 
club rooms were placed at the disposal of members of the Association 
and at the close of the Tuesday evening meeting, a very pleasant 
informal reception was given our delegates. 

On Friday afternoon at the close of the convention the Wednesday 
Club tendered a reception to Mrs. Richards, President of the Asso- 
ciation, to which our members were cordially welcomed. The Presi- 
dent of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, Mrs. Philip N. 
Moore of St. Louis, was constant in her efforts to make our meetings 
a success, serving as a member of the local committee and assisting 
in many of the arrangements. Altogether the assistance which the 
club women of St. Louis gave to the meetings contributed a great deal 
to their success, and the Association can only hope that the meetings 
proved of as much interest to them. 

Another aspect of the St. Louis meeting which must have impressed 
every one, was the length and general excellence of the program. A 
two-day meeting had been tried last year in Boston and proved en- 
tirely inadequate. This year, therefore, a program extending over four 
days was arranged. While many persons felt it a hardship to leave 
home for so long a time at Christmas, and the question was raised con- 
tinually whether a summer meeting would not be preferable, all found 
the extended program full of interest from, first to last. 



6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

On the first day, after an opening address by Superintendent Blew- 
ett, of the St. Louis schools, and a paper by Dean Charters, of Teachers 
College, University of Missouri, on the Effect of the Point of View in 
Teaching Domestic Science, two section meetings were held; one on 
Home Economics and elementary education, the other on chemistry 
and dietetics, the latter of which presented a long series of scientific 
papers, 15 titles in all, besides a review of progress in nutrition by Dr. 
C. F. Langworthy. One must place emphasis upon the significance of 
so impressive a list of scientific papers, not alone in chemistry and die- 
tetics, but at other points in the program, as in the administration 
section, the child welfare section, and the section on textiles. If the 
members of the Association will increasingly turn their attention to 
original research and constructive writing, the question whether Home 
Economics is a science will be answered once and for all. 

Tuesday evening there was the meeting of the club women referred 
to above. Wednesday morning the administration section gave a 
very interesting program, beginning at 9 o'clock, including papers by 
Dr. Rubinow and Mr. Lebovitz on Household Service and Labor 
Saving Machinery, the outline of a thesis investigation by Mr. Leeds 
on The Economic Value of Housework, an interesting paper on Euro- 
pean Household Thrift, by Miss Edith Talbot Jackson, a paper on 
The Use of a Residence Hall in Training Students in Management, 
by Miss Martha Bell of the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, and a 
statement of the Yale College Dining Hall by Miss Josephine T. Berry. 

Wednesday morning there was a meeting on Methods of Instruc- 
tion in Food Preparation with contributions from various universi- 
ties, which raised questions of utmost importance and demanding 
further consideration. The annual luncheon occurred Wednesday 
noon and gave the delegates the opportunity of hearing from several 
interesting speakers including Mrs. Ware of the Warelands Dairy 
near Boston, Professor Fetter of Cornell, Mr. Knox, Assistant Superin- 
tendent of Schools, St. Louis, and others. Following the luncheon, 
a section meeting on child welfare was held at which there was given 
a report of the committee which has been investigating courses for 
the training of the professional child nurse, and a helpful series of 
papers on child care. It is evident that this topic of the care of the 
normal child is already finding its way into the elementary school, 
the high school, and the college, in connection with Home Economics 
teaching. Two research papers on this program by Miss Louise Stan- 
ley and Miss Amy L. Daniel encouraged those who are mindful of 



igii] Third Convention of the Association 7 

the fact that progress in any field depends absolutely upon scientific 
knowledge. 

Thursday morning a program on housing and sanitation was pro- 
vided with papers on housing reform by Lawrence Veiller, Secretary 
of the National Housing Association, The Moderate Priced House, 
by Professor Mann of the University of Illinois, and Some Results 
of Investigation as to Household Equipment, by Helen Louise John- 
son of the Good Housekeeping Magazine. A discussion of courses of 
instruction in housing and sanitative followed. A section meeting 
of those interested in administrative problems was made especially 
interesting by a discussion by Dr. Winthrop Talbot of the new open- 
ings in factory welfare work. 

Thursday afternoon after the annual business meeting, a spirited dis- 
cussion of extension work in rural communities and among women's 
clubs was held with Miss Bouton of the University of Nebraska as 
chairman and with discussions by several persons actively engaged 
in such work. Thursday 's program concluded with the evening pro- 
gram on courses in sociology referred to above. Friday morning 
Instruction in Economics in the High School was presented, with 
papers on The Training of Girls as Consumers, by Miss Hanna of 
the University College, Chicago, The Development of Individual 
Responsibility through a Study of Social Problems, by Miss S. P. 
Breckenridge of the University of Chicago, and Professor Cole's paper 
on The Relation of Home Economics to General Economics. The eco- 
nomic program was continued under the direction of Miss Brecken- 
ridge, with discussions, in the afternoon, on cost accounting by Mrs. 
Richards, Knowledge of the Industrial System as a Basis for Con- 
sumer's Responsibility, by Miss Edna D. Day, and the Knowledge of 
the Productive System, by Miss Anna R. Van Meter. 

Friday morning, one of the most interesting sections, that on tex- 
tiles, occurred. Although hindered by lack of time, the papers on the 
Course of Study in Textiles, by Miss Marlatt and Miss Crooks, which 
gave the results of an investigation into the actual offering in textiles 
in different universities, attracted much attention. Other papers 
on this program were Miss Craig's paper on Textile Experimentation; 
Miss Fales' A Course in Historic Costume; Miss Winchell's, The Tex- 
tile Testing Laboratory of the United States Army; A Study of Blu- 
ings, by Miss Balderston and Miss McKeown; and Miss Denny's 
Some Textile Tests. 
The business session of the Association showed that its activities 



8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

are increasing in every way. Particularly pleasing was the series of 
reports from afi&liated societies. Some of these associations are local 
organizations like the Home Economics Club of Grand Rapids and 
the New York City Association; others are state organizations, like 
those of Ohio and Iowa; still others are inter-state organizations, like 
the New England Association and that which is being organized in 
the mountain states of the West. Everywhere, however, there is 
manifest a tendency for workers in the Home Economics field to get 
together in whatever form may be most convenient, and exchange 
experience. 

The report of the Editor of the Journal of Home Economics 
brought home to the members of the Association a most acute problem 
which faces the organization. The Journal, no longer being a privi- 
lege of membership, needs the support of every member of the Asso- 
ciation in order to continue its growth and assure its future. So long 
as the burden of editorial management must be borne by voluntary 
helpers it means that every member of the Association should consider 
himself personally responsible for whatever cooperation he can give, 
whether in contributions for the Journal, or in extending its sub- 
scription list, or in securing school or other advertisements for its pages. 

The one item in the proceedings which will attract the attention of 
every member is the retirement of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards from the 
active presidency of the Association. Mrs. Richards had notified the 
committee on nominations that it seemed wise to her not to assume 
again the active presidency and, at the recommendation of the com- 
mittee, the Association unanimously elected Mrs. Richards honorary 
president, and asked that she continue her active cooperation in all 
matters of Association business as far as it seemed wise for her to do. 

The choice of Miss Bevier as active president of the Association 
was unanimously made and the Association may congratulate itself 
on having one at the helm who has been so identified with the Lake 
Placid Conference and the American Home Economics Association 
through all of their history. 

While this is not the place to make an extended statement of the 
services of Mrs. Richards in connection with these organizations, one 
cannot omit in passing an expression of the feeling of regard which 
every member of the Association has for her, and also the dependence 
which the Association must still have upon her ripe wisdom and un- 
failing activity in all that concerns its welfare. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 



MINUTES OF THIRD ANNUAL MEETING, AMERICAN 
HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The Third Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was called to order on Thursday, December 29, 1910, at 1:30, 
at the W. T. Harris Teachers College, with the President of the Asso- 
ciation, Mrs, Ellen H. Richards, in the chair. 

Reports were given from the Home Economics Club of Grand Rapids, 
Michigan, the Ohio State Home Economics Association, the Nebraska 
Home Economics Association, the New England Home Economics 
Association, and the Home Economics Association of Greater New 
York. 

It was voted that the appreciation of the American Home Econom- 
ics Association be expressed to the Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York, for the quarterly bibliography of periodical liter- 
ature in Home Economics, which that association has published dur- 
ing the past two years; and that the American Association approve 
the request of the New York Association that the bibliographical 
material prepared by the New York Association be, as far as prac- 
ticable, included in the Journal of Home Economics. 

There was reported from the Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York a request that the American Association appoint 
a committee to consider terminology in Home Economics. It was 
voted that a committee be appointed by the President of the Ameri- 
can Association to consider nomenclature in domestic science and 
domestic art in elementary and secondary schools, the committee to 
consist of the President and four members and to make a report at the 
San Francisco meeting of the National Education Association in July, 
191 1. Subsequently the committee was announced as consisting of 
Mrs. Richards; Mr. George P. Knox, assistant superintendent of 
schools, St. Louis; Miss Rosa Bouton of the University of Nebraska; 
Miss Mary Wright, director of domestic economy, public schools, 
Philadelphia; and Dr. A. C. True of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C. 

The Secretary presented a letter of greetings from Miss Alice 
Ravenhill, who recently came to America and is making her horre in 



lo The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

Vancouver, British Columbia. The Secretary was directed to extend 
the greetings of the Association to Miss Ravenhill and express the 
hope that she might be present at the next convention. A similar 
letter was presented from Miss Mary Urie Watson, a Vice-President 
of the Association, and the Secretary was directed to convey to her 
the greetings of the Association and its regrets at her absence. 

Miss Craig of the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas, reported 
the probability of an organization of a State Home Economics Asso- 
ciation in Texas in connection with the State Teachers Association. 
Miss Crooks of Milwaukee-Downer College reported that a State 
Home Economics Association has been organized in Wisconsin, with 
Miss Abby L. Marlatt, of the University of Wisconsin, as president. 

The President presented a report from Miss Huntington of the Agri- 
cultural College of Utah regarding the organization of an Interstate 
Home Economics Association in the mountain states, at a preliminary 
meeting held last February. 

Committee on A filiated Societies: — ^The Committee on Affiliated Soci- 
eties through its Chairman, Miss Van Rensselaer of Cornell Univer- 
sity, reported that there were opportunities for important work in con- 
nection with women's club organizations and other national organi- 
zations which are related to the Home Economics field, but that it 
was difficult to make progress without funds for the preparation and 
circulation of printed material. This report was accepted, and the 
committee continued with authority to collect and expend funds. 

Committee on Course of Study in Home Economics in Agricultural Col- 
leges: — Miss Bevier reported that this committee, which consists of 
Professor Jaffa, Miss Day, Miss Huntington, Mrs. Van Zile and Miss 
Bevier, held a meeting in Chicago with Dr. A. C. True of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Chairman of the Committee on Courses of Study 
of the Association of Agricultural Colleges. At this meeting a course 
of study was drawn up which lays emphasis for the present on courses 
of instruction in food, clothing and shelter. The report of the com- 
mittee was accepted, the committee was continued and its full report 
was ordered published in the Journal of Home Economics. (See 
page 25.) 

Committee on College Entrance Requirements: — This committee, com- 
posed of Miss Jennie Snow, Miss Edna Day and Miss Louise Stanley, 
appointed by the President, reported that they had had a preliminary 
meeting with Mr. William M. Butler, President of the Yeatman High 
School in St. Louis and Chairman of the Committee on College 



1 9 1 1 ] Minutes of Third A nnual Meeting 1 1 

Entrance Requirements of the American Federation of Teachers of 
Mathematical and Social Sciences. It was voted that the committee 
be made permanent with power to increase its membership, and that 
it be directed to bring in a report on college entrance requirements in 
Home Economics at the next meeting of the Association. 

Committee on Administration and Administration Section: — The 
President reported that a Committee on Administration had been ap- 
pointed at the close of the Second Annual Convention, composed of 
Mrs. Annie Dewey, Miss Adelaide Nutting and the Secretary of the 
Association; that this committee had organized a sectional confer- 
ence at Lake Placid, in June, 1 910, on household institution manage- 
ment, which was attended by some fifty persons; that the Lake Placid 
meeting had provisionally organized as an administrative section 
of the American Home Economics Association, with a Chairman, 
Secretary and Committees, and that the following request is now pre- 
sented from the Executive Committee of the Section Association: 
"It is requested that the American Home Economics Association 
recognize the organization of the Administration Section comprising 
two divisions, — Home and Institution Management; and that the 
Association provide a form of organization for the Administration 
Section and such other sections as may from time to time be authorized. 
It is suggested that the sectional organization shall provide for proper 
officers, including a chairman, secretary and such committees as the 
section shall from time to time authorize." 

The request of the Administration Section as to the organization 
of sections was referred to the Executive Committee for consideration. 

Committee on Legislation: — Miss Bouton reported for this committee 
the following resolution: 

Resolved: That the American Home Economics Association, recognizing the 
imperative need of better housekeeping and the importance of the work which the 
United States Bureau of Education carries on in improving the means of public 
education, recommends most earnestly to the consideration of Congress the request 
of the United States Bureau of Education for the addition to its staff of a specialist 
in education for housekeeping. 

Graduate School of Home Economics: — Dr. C. F. Langworthy 
presented a report on the Graduate School of Home Economics. 
This report has already appeared in the Journal for October, 1910 
(pp. 425-8), with the exception of its closing paragraph, which is as 
follows: 



12 The Journal oj Home Economics [February- 

After the close of the school the matter of taking over the Graduate School of 
Home Economics was duly referred to the committee of the Association of Agri- 
cultural Colleges and Experiment Stations which has the Graduate School of 
Agriculture in charge. The committee recognized the importance of the Graduate 
School of Home Economics and the desirability of uniting the two schools, for they 
fully appreciate that Home Economics is an important part of the curriculum in 
a 'arge number of the agricultural colleges. Unfortunately, at this time they do 
not see their way clear to take over the Graduate School of Home Economics owing 
to the fact that the development of the Graduate School of Agriculture, normal 
and logical though it has been, is such that the available funds are no longer ade- 
quate for its proper maintenance, and the committee is trying to devise some way 
of meeting the situation which arises in connection with the next meeting of its 
school. Dr. True, speaking for the committee, says they believe thoroughly in the 
desirability of continuing the Graduate School of Home Economics, and suggests 
that it be taken over by the American Home Economics Association and held in 
191 2 on something the same lines as heretofore. He promises the cooperation of the 
Graduate School of Agriculture in so far as possible and hopes that should those 
who are interested in the matter remain of the same mind Home Economics courses 
can eventually be provided in the Graduate School of Agriculture, in accordance 
with the proposal made to the Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experi- 
ment Stations. 

It was decided that the American Home Economics Association 
take over the Graduate School of Home Economics, with the under- 
standing that the School shall, in large part, be self-supporting. 
The School is to be administered through a Committee on Graduate 
School, consisting of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Miss Caroline L. Hunt, 
Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Miss Edna Day, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Miss 
Martha Van Rensselaer, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, and Mrs. Alice D. 
Feuling, which was authorized to make plans for the next session. 
The thanks of the Association were tendered to Dr. True for his 
kindness and cooperation in making successful the meeting of the 
Graduate School of 1910. 

Report of the Treasurer: — The report of the treasurer (see page 19) 
was read and was referred to the Finance Committee as a Committee 
on Audit. 

Finance Committee's Report on Budget: — The Finance Committee 
reported that since the Executive Committee had arranged that cer- 
tain postage and stationery expenses should be met by the Journal 
office, the only expenses remaining for the Association to meet were 
those of the annual meeting and small incidental expenses. On the 
basis of this year's expenditures, this sum should be at least $350, 
which it was the judgment of the committee could not be provided 
with the annual fee only twenty-five cents . With the annual fee $ i .00 it 



iQii] Minutes of Third Annual Meeting 13 

would be possible to meet current expenses, to contribute somewhat 
to committee expenses, and to give some assistance to the Journal 
if necessary. The committee therefore recommended an advance to 
$1.00 for the annual fee, the distribution of the income for 1911-1912 
to be left in the hands of the Executive Committee. 

Amendments to the Constitution and Bylaws: — Due notice having been 
given of intention to amend the constitution and bylaws, the following 
recommendation from the Executive Committee was unanimously 
adopted: 

Resolved, That Article VI of the Constitution be amended to read, "The 
Association shall issue a professional Journal which shall be the property of the Asso- 
ciation," omitting words "and shall be sent to members as a privilege of member- 
ship." 

It was also unanimously voted that Article III of the Bylaws, be amended in 
Section III, to read: " (i) annual, dependent on payment of dues, $1.00." 

The action of the Executive Committee in temporarily reducing the membership 
fee to twenty-five cents, and in effecting the separation of the subscription to the 
Journal from the membership dues, was unanimously approved and that Executive 
Committee authorized to put the $1.00 fee into effect as soon as possible. 

Proposed Amendment to the Constitution: — Notice was given of a pro- 
posed amendment to the constitution, separating the office of the^ 
Secretary from that of the Treasurer. 

Annual Meeting: — A communication from the Executive Committee 
of the Administration Section recommending that the Annual Con- 
vention be held the last week of June, and that the program extend 
over a week, providing at least two meetings a day for each section, 
besides general meetings, was received, and the request referred to 
the Council for adjustment. 

Adjourned Meeting. 

The meeting was resumed at 1:30 p.m., December 30, 

Editor's Report: — The report of the Editor of the Journal of Home 

Economics was read and the following resolution was unanimously 

adopted: 

Resolved, That we express our appreciation of the difficulties with which the 
Editor of the Journal of Home Economics has been confronted, and our deep 
gratitude for her able editorship under these conditions. 

Management oj the Journal: — The Executive Committee was au- 
thorized to make any adjustments necessary with regard to subscrip- 



14 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

tion rates, editorial management, advertising, and other matter in con- 
nection with the publication of the Journal of Home Economics 
upon a self -supporting basis. The committee was also authorized to 
arrange for clerical assistance, in connection with the membership 
records of the Association. 

Committee on Audit: — The Financial Committee reported that an 
examination of the accounts of the Treasurer indicated that these 
were correct. Both the reports oE the Treasurer and of the Committee 
were approved. The Executive Committee was given increased 
authority as to the depositing of funds. 

Resolutions: — The Committee on Resolutions through its chair- 
man, Mr. LeBosquet, reported resolutions tendering the appreciation 
and thanks of the Association to Mr. George Piatt Knox, Assistant 
Superintendent of Schools, St. Louis, and Chairman of the Local 
Committee, whose wise preliminary plans and careful supervision 
contributed much to the success of the meeting; to each member of 
the Local Committee and to the various local organizations who 
have cooperated with it; to Mrs. Washington E. Fischel for making 
arrangements for the annual luncheon; to Mrs. E. R. Kroeger, Presi- 
dent of the Wednesday Club, and to the Club for its hospitality and 
many courtesies extended to our delegates ; to Miss Abby L. Page, Chair- 
man of the Committee on Accommodations; to Miss Roberta McCul- 
loch, who prepared the list of places of interest; to Miss Schmitz, 
Miss Buschman, Miss Denton and Miss Fiickner, and others who 
gave their services in connection with the registration of delegates; 
and to the Board of Education of the St. Louis pubHc schools for ten- 
dering the use of the W. T. Harris Teachers College for the meetings. 

Thanks were also extended to Dean Kinley of the University of 
Illinois, and Professor Fetter of Cornell University, Professor Howard 
of the University of Nebraska, and Professor Ellwood of the Univer- 
sity of Missouri, and Mrs. Spencer of the University of Wisconsin, for 
their papers; to Dr. Bishop for her services as Chairman of the Child 
Welfare section; to Superintendent Blewett of the St. Louis Public 
Schools for his address of welcome; to Dean Charters of the Univer- 
sity of Missouri, Mr. Veiller, Secretary of the National Housing Asso- 
ciation, Professor Mann of the University of Illinois, Dr. Rubinow, 
U. S. Department of Commerce and Labor, and Mr. Lebovitz of the 
Library of Congress, for addresses and papers before the Association ; 
and to the ofTicers and members who had in charge the arrangements 
for the convention, and to all who contributed to the program. 



igii] Minutes of Third Annual Meeting 15 

Program Committee:— The President was instructed to designate a 
Committee on Program which shall have entire charge of the program 
of the succeeding- meeting. It was requested that suggestions regard- 
ing programs be sent to the President in advance of the annual meet- 
ings. 

Committee on Child Care: — The report of the Committee on Child 
Care was received and with it a recommendation from the sectional 
meeting on child welfare requesting the continuance of the committee 
and urging that it pursue its investigation not only into professional 
courses in training, but also examining the possibilities of non-pro- 
fessional instruction in elementary schools, high schools and colleges. 
The thanks of the Association were tendered the committee for the 
survey of the field which they have prepared and the committee was 
continued. 

Election of Officers:— The Nominating Committee, through H. C. 
Sherman, chairman, presented the following nominations for terms of 
one year: President, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana, 
Illinois; First Vice President, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Washington; Second Vice President, Mrs. Mary 
Schenck Woolman, Teachers College, New York City; Third Vice 
President, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
N. Y.; Secretary-Treasurer, Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews Teachers 
College, Columbia University, New York City. For terms of five years, 
members of the Council, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Massachusetts 
Ins'ituteof Technology, Boston, Mass.; Miss Marion Talbot, Univer- 
sity of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Miss Mary Urie Watson, MacDon- 
ald Institute, Guelph, Ontario, Canada; Miss Adelaide Nutting, 
Teachers College, New York City; Miss Ednah Rich, State Normal 
School, Santa Barbara, California; and for member of the nominat- 
ing committee. Miss Susanna Usher, University of Illinois, Urbana 
Illinois. 

These nominations were accepted and the nominees duly elected. 
The convention then adjourned, sine die. 



MEETING OF THE COUNCIL 

Minutes of the Meeting of the Council of the American Home Economics 
Association, at 10:30 a.m., December 27, 1910, at the W. T. Harris 
Teachers College, St. Lotns. 

In the absence of a quorum no formal business was transacted; but a discussion 
of the business of the Association was had, and recommendations were made to 
the annual business meeting of the Association. 

The report of the Editor of the Journal of Home Economics was read. A 
proposal to begin the volume of the Journal in the fall instead of January i 
was referred to the Executive Committee of the Association. 

The provisional action of the Executive Committee in separating the dues from 
the subscription to the Journal was discussed and the recommendation was made 
to the annual meeting that the amendment to the constitution providing for the 
separation of dues and subscription be adopted. On motion it was voted that in 
the opinion of those present the dues of the Association should be increased beyond 
the $0.25 amount provisionally adopted by the Executive Committee. 

It was recommended to the annual meeting that the Executive Committee be 
authorized to make any adjustment with regard to subscription rates, advertis- 
ing, clerical assistance, and other matters concerned with the publication of the 
Journal. 

The matter of financial arrangements with regard to clerical assistance for the 
Editor of the Journal of Home Economics and in connection with the subscrip- 
tions to the Journal and the membership dues was discussed, and it was recom- 
mended to the Association that the Executive Committee be empowered to make 
suitable arrangements with regard to editorial assistance, clerical assistance with 
regard to subscriptions, and clerical assistance with regard to dues of the Associa- 
tion, and that the person so charged with work for the Association be authorized 
to act as an Assistant Treasurer of the Association under the direction of the 
Treasurer. 

The report of the Graduate School of Home Economics was made through Dr. 
Langworthy, and on motion it was recommended to the annual meeting of the 
Association that the Association should take over the Graduate School of Home 
Economics as a division of the work of the Association. 

The matter of committees to serve during the convention was discussed and at 
a subsequent session of the Association, the President of the Association announced 
the following temporary committees: Committee on College Entrance Require- 
ments: Miss Jennie Snow, Miss Edna Day, Miss Louise Stanley; Committee on 
Legislation: Miss Rosa Bouton, with power to add others; Co7nmillee on Finance: 
Miss Isabel Ely Lord, Miss Anna VanMeter, Dr. C. F. Langworthy; and Commit- 
tee on Resolutions: Mr. Maurice LeBosquet, with power to add others. These 
committees were asked to report at the annual meeting of the Association. 

16 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Memhership: The membership of the Association is now approximately 1500 as 
against 700 when the Association was organized in 1908, and 1250 one year ago 
at the time of the Boston Convention. The Executive Committee in November 
made effective the proposal considered at the Boston Convention to separate 
entirel)' the membership fee of the Association from the subscription to the Journal 
OF Home Economics. As a tentative arrangement the subscription to the Journal 
was placed at $2, and the membership fee at $0.25, subject to final action by the 
Association at this Convention. The decision in November became necessary to 
meet the regulations of the Post Office Department, and the authority was based 
upon the action taken at Boston which referred the matter to the Executive Com- 
mittee and the editorial board with power. What the outcome of this division 
of dues from membership will be upon membership of the Association and the 
subscription hst of the Journal cannot be foreseen. 

Publication of the Journal: — The Journal of Home Economics has been issued 
as a bi-monthly in five issues, with an extra sixth number in November reporting 
the conference on institutional management at Lake Placid. Contributions for 
the November issue were sought outside of the regular funds of the Association. 
Details regarding the Journal are presented at length in the editor's report. 

Duties of Secretary and Treasurer: — At the beginning of the Association one person 
performed the duties of secretar>', treasurer, and editor. After six months the 
editorial work was transferred to another person while the secretary continued to 
care for the business records of the Association including the collection of dues and 
subscriptions. This situation continued through the first year and until the 
spring of 1910, when it seemed wiser to transfer the entire collection of dues and 
subscriptions to the Editor's ofiice. This left to the treasurer certain duties 
involving the depositing of funds and the making of all payments. The experience 
of 1910 proved that it was impossible for a person undertaking the editorial duties 
as a piece of voluntary work also to carry the burden of the records of the Associa- 
tion, including care of card catalogues, the collecting and sending out bills, and the 
collection of dues and all the other details of the business side of the Association. 
It had already been found necessary to provide the editor with editorial assistance 
in the preparation of material for the press, in proof-reading, and in seeing the suc- 
cessive numbers through the printer's hands, and in November, 1910, the editorial 
board transferred the card catalogue and all business matters connected with the 
collection of dues, into the same hands, this action being of course subject to revievr 
and definite approval by the Annual Meeting of the Association. 

Despite the withdrawing of these duties fiom the secretary's office it is evident 
that the growth of the Association makes necessary a lurther sub-division in the 
duties of the secretary and the treasurer. The secretary therefore recommends 
that the two offices be divided when proper constitutional action has been taken, 
and that the office of treasurer be established. This will leave the secretary's 

17 



i8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

office charged solely with the duties of correspondence during the year, and with 
secretarial duties at the annual meeting, a field extensive enough, however, to en- 
gage the best service which a voluntary official can give. 

The Conventions: — The Association held two sectional conventions during the 
summer of 1910, one with a program of educational topics at the Boston meeting 
of the National Education Association, under the chairmanship of Miss Kinne of 
Teachers College; the other a section on household administration at the Lake 
Placid Club with a program on problems of institutional work, planned by a Com- 
mittee composed of Mrs. Dewey of Lake Placid, Miss Nutting of Teachers College, 
and the Secretary of the Association. Both meetings were very successful. Several 
problems arise: (i) The Administration Section formed an organization with sec- 
tional officers, and its executive committee requests that we make formal provision 
for an Administration Section within the American Home Economics Association. 
(2) The Education Section did not form a permanent organization. There remains 
the question, however, whether an Education Section should not be formed parallel 
to the Administration Section. (3) The question of sections and their meetings 
is intimately involved in the question of the annual meetings of the whole Associa- 
tion. More than one meeting a year does not seem satisfactory. The Adminis- 
tration section makes a recommendation for 191 1 that a summer meeting be held' 
at which there shall be opportunity for sectional programs on administration, etc., 
and as well, general sessions. (4) Definite provision should be made as to the 
method of organizing programs. This has fallen up to the present upon the 
president or the secretary and such vigilance committees as it has been possible 
to organize. Definite arrangements for locating responsibility for programs should 
be provided for by this convention. 

AfHlialed Societies: — The affiliation of societies with the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association goes on apace. Societies have been organized in New York, 
Ohio, and Iowa during the past year, an organization is being formed in the Rocky 
Mountain States, and one is contemplated in Texas. The matter of the relationship 
of the Association to these local societies needs careful attention. Our Committee 
on Affiliated Societies offers one method of procedure. The problem involves 
not alone societies formerly affiliated with our Association, which in a way may be 
expected to take care of themselves, but the more pressing question of assistance 
which we can give to the women's club organizations, and our relationship to other 
societies, like the Infant Mortality Association, the Mothers' Congress, etc., 
which are in some way related to our field of interest. For the next year a possible 
policy would be to center our attention upon assistance to the women's clubs. 
Under affiliation should also be noted the fact that the Association took out mem- 
bership in two international conferences in connection with the Brussels Exposition, 
the conference on Home Education in August, to which the President and Secre- 
tary of our Association contributed papers; and the Association on Hygiene and 
Alimentation and the Rational Feeding of Man, for which Dr. Langworthy col- 
lected a number of American papers, making the representation of American workers 
in nutrition one of the best. Dr. Langworthy attended the conference as a Govern- 
ment representative, and other members of our Association were present, though 
we had no official delegate. 

Legislation: — Domestic science instruction is encouraged in certain states by 
legislation favoring its introduction into public elementary' and high schools. 



1 9 1 1 ] Report of Treasurer 1 9 

Our Association should gather the facts on this situation and urge the adoption of 
similar legislation in other states. Higher education in Home Economics received 
a great impetus during 19 10 through the appropriation by the state legislature of 
New York of $154,000 for a Home Economics building at Cornell University. 
Congress is again considering the DoUiver bill which embodies the original Davis 
bill for agricultural and Home Economics education; also the proposal of the U. S. 
Bureau of Education for an appropriation to provide a specialist in education for 
housekeeping on the staff of the Bureau. The Association has already taken 
action approving the Davis bill. The proposal of the Bureau of Education should 
have earnest consideration by this convention. This Association ought to throw 
strong and country-wide influence in favor of good legislation and against vicious 
proposals in its own field of work. The state associations may be relied upon to 
watch state legislation, and it is surely the duty of the American Home Economics 
Association to further suitable federal enactments. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, Secretary. 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER. 

The treasurer presented (i) a statement of the cash account for the year ended 
December 23, 1910; and (2) a statement of resources and liabilities on December 
23, 1910. 

I. Cash Statebient. 

December 23, 1909, to December 23, 1910. 

Receipts. 

Cash balance $ 192 . 63 

Dues and subscriptons 3190.06 

Contributions for Administration Section Fund 49 90 

Total $3432.59 

Expenditures. 

Journal $1816.65 

Postage and stationery 200. 76 

Conventions 394 . 48 

Pamphlets 23 . 20 

Incidentals 3 1 ■ 00 

Bank charges 1 2 . 60 

Transfer to permanent fund 1 50 . 00 

Charge against Administration Section fund 20.00 

$2638.69 
Cash on hand 793 . 90 

$3432.59 



20 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

II. Statement of Resources and Liabilities. 

Resources. 

Balance in general fund $764 . 00 

Balance in administration section fund 29 . 90 

Advanced payment on bills for 191 1 5° 78 

Accounts Receivable. 

Dues of 90 members 180 . 00 

For Journals sold 52 . 50 

Inventory of Journals on hand 500 . 00 

$1577-18 
Lidbililies. 

Printing Journals $731 .60 

Clerical assistance 93 ■ 16 

Programs for the St. Louis Convention 40 . 00 

Subscriptions (224) for 1911, paid in advance 400.00 

Dues (53) for 191 1, paid in advance 14 So 

Total $1279.26 

Credit balance 297 .92 

$1677.18 

Permanent fund, three Ufe memberships $150.00 

Benjamin R. Andrews, Treasurer. 



PROGRAM OF THE THIRD ANNUAL CONVENTION. 
AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

St. Louis, December 27-30, 1910. 
tuesday, december 27. 

9:00 a.m. Meeting of Executive Committee. 
10:30 a.m. Meeting of Council. 

Opening Session: 
2:00 p.m. Welcoming Address: Superintendent Blewett, St. Louis Public Schools. 
Address: The Effect of the Point of View in Teaching Domestic Science. Dean 
W. W. Charters, Teachers College, University of Missouri. 
3:00 p.m. Section Meeting: Home Economics in Elementary Education. Mrs. 
Alice P. Norton, University of Chicago, Chairman. 
I. Some Problems in the Elementary School. Miss Mildred Weigley, De Kalb 

Township High School, 111. 
3. From the Standpoint of the Grade Teacher. Miss Melva Latham, University 

Elementary School, University of Chicago. 
3. The Effect on the Home. Miss Charley Tidd, University of Missouri. 
3:00 p.m. Section Meeting: Chemistry and Dietetics. Miss Edna D. Day, Uni- 
versity of Kansas, Chairman. 
1. Research Papers, Abstracts and Titles: Further Contributions on Jelly 
Making. Miss N. E. Goldthwaite, University of Illinois. 

(2) A Study of Flavor of Meat. Miss Elizabeth Sprague, University of 

Chicago. 

(3) Studies in Methods of Food Preparation. Miss Elizabeth Sprague, Uni- 

versity of Chicago. 

(4) The Proportion of Flour in its Relation to Certain Characteristics in 

Bread. Misses Ida Shilling and Frances Freeman, University of Ohio. 

(5) The Leavening Agent in Salt-rising Bread. Miss Winona Woodward, 

University of Missouri. 

(6) Changes in the Phosphorus Compounds of Meat During Cooking. 

Miss Louise Stanley, University of Missouri. 

(7) The Nutritive Value of Seaweeds. Mrs. Mary D. Swartz Rose, Teachers 

College, Columbia University. 

(8) The Erepsin of the Cabbage. Miss Alice F. Blood, Simmons College. 

(9) Recent Literature on Metabohsm in Typhoid. Miss Josephine T. Berry. 
(10) Losses in Cooking Green Vegetables. Miss Josephine T. Berry. 

(read by title only.) 

(ii) The Cooking Properties of Potatoes as Influenced by Varieties and 
Methods of Storage. Miss Fern Boll, University of Wisconsin. 

(12) The Use and Preservation of Cranberries, Fresh and Stored. Miss Grace 
Howe, University of Wisconsin. 

2X 



22 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

(13) The Effect of Pasteurization of Milk on the Cooking Properties of Cheese 

Made from It. Miss Lottie Wilkinson, University of Wisconsin. 

(14) Dietaries Furnished in Tuberculosis Sanitariums. Miss Roxie Yorgey, 

University of Wisconsin. 

(15) Inversion of Sugar in Various Household Processes. Miss Mary Ed- 

monds, University of Ohio. 
2. Review of Progress in Nutrition. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department 
of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 
8:00 p.m. Wednesday Club Auditorium. Public meeting with addresses. Mem- 
bers of Women's Clubs especially invited. Speakers: Mrs. Philip N. Moore, 
President General Federation of Women's Club; Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, 
President American Home Economics Association, and others. An informal 
reception followed the meeting. 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28. 

9:30 a.m. General Session : Administration Section. Miss Lydia Southard, Teach- 
ers College, New York City, chairman. Household Service as a Labor Prob- 
lem. I. M. Rubinow, U. S. Departmentof Commerce and Labor. Some Social 
Economic Aspects of Labor Saving Machinery in the Household: J. Lebovitz, 
Library of Congress. 

10:30 a.m. Section Meeting — Management. Economic Values of House Work, 
John Leeds, Teachers College, New York. Thrift in the Household from the 
European Standpoint: Mrs. Edith Talbot Jackson (presented in absentia). 
A Basal Ration, with Extras at Additional Cost, — as employed in the Yale 
College Dining Hall: Miss Josephine T. Berry, Yale University. The Use of 
a Residence Hall in Training Students in Management: Miss Martha T. 
Bell, College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. At an adjourned meeting 
at II a. m. Thursday, the Administration Section considered the report of a 
Committee on Courses of Study in Administration. 

10:30 a.m. Section on Instruction in Food Preparation and Dietetics. Miss Edna 
D. Day, chairman. 
Methods of Teaching Dietetics. 
Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile, Kansas Agricultural College. Miss Ruth Wardall, 
Ohio State University. Miss Louise Stanley, University of Missouri. 
Methods of Teaching Preparation of Food. 

Miss Jennie Snow, University of Chicago. Miss Nellie Nesbitt, University of 
Missouri. Miss Nina B. Crigler, University of Illinois. Miss May B. Van 
Arsdale, Teachers College. 

I :oo p.m. Annual Luncheon, with informal addresses and roll-call. 

3:30 p.m. Section on Child Welfare. Address by Frances L. Bishop, M.D., St. 
Louis, chairman of section. 

1. Report of Committee on Education for the Child-Nurse, Adelaide Nutting, 

Teachers College, New York, chairman, presented by Mary L. Read, of 
The American Baby Magazine, New York. 

2. Instruction on Child-Care. 

(i) In the Elementary School. Papers, in absentia, by Mrs. Mary E.Williams, 
Supervisor of Domestic Science, New York City Schools, and Miss Mary 
Wright, Director of Household Economy, Public Schools,Philadelphia. 



igii] Program of Third Convention . 23 

(2) In the High School. Miss Ella Henry, Supervisor of Domestic Science, 

Manual Training High School, Denver. 

(3) In the College. Miss Edna D. Day, University of Kansas. 

3. Emphasis to be Given on the Care of the Normal Child. Mrs. Henrietta W. 

Calvin, Purdue University. 

4. Research. 

(i) Glycosuria in Infants and its Relations to Infant Feeding. Louise Stanley, 

University of Missouri. 
(2) The Significance of Curds in Infant Stools. Amy Louise Daniels, Yale 
University. 
8:00 p.m. Aspectsof Economicsof Importance in Household Science. David Kin- 
ley, Professor of Economics, Dean of Graduate School, University of Illinois. 
Discussion: Frank A. Fetter, Professor of Political Economy and Finance, 
Cornell University. 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29. 

9:30 a.m. General Session. Housing and Sanitation. Miss Isabel Bevier, Univer- 
sity of Illinois, Urbana, chairman. 

1. Housing Reform. Lawrence Veiller, Secretary, National Housing Associa- 

tion. 

2. The Moderate Priced House, Professor R. M. Mann, Head of Department of 

Architecture, University of Illinois. (Illustrated.) 
1 1 :00 a.m. Section Meeting. Housing and Sanitation. 

1. Some Results of Investigation as to Household Equipment. Helen Louise 

Johnson, Good Househeeping Magazine, Springfield, Mass. 

2. Courses of Instruction on Housing and Sanitation. 

11:00 a.m. Administration Section. Report of Committee on Courses of Study 
in Administration. 

1 :3o p.m. Annual meeting of the Association. Reports of officers to the Associa- 
tion. Reports from Committees. Recommendations from the Council. Re- 
port of Election Committee and Election of Officers. 

4:00 p.m. Methods of Extension Work. Miss Rosa Bouton, University of Ne- 
braska, chairman. 

1. Methods of Presenting Extension Work. Miss Neale S. Knowles, Ames, 

Iowa; Miss Ilena Bailey, University of Missouri. 

2. Opportunities and Limitations of Household Economics Departments in 

Rural Extension Work. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin, Purdue University. 

3. What the Women's Clubs Are Doing. Mrs. Olaf N. Guldin, chairman. 

Home Economics Committee, Federation of Women's Clubs. 
8:00 p.m. What Courses in Sociology — Pure or Applied — Should Be Included in a 
College Department of Household Science? Professor George Elliott Howard, 
University of Nebraska. Discussion: Professor Charles A. Ellwood, Uni- 
versity of Missouri. 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30. 

9:30 a.m. Instruction in Economics in High Schools, Mrs. Norton, University of 
Chicago, chairman. 
I. The Training of High School Girls as Intelligent Consumers. Miss Agnes 
K. Hanna, University College, Chicago. 



24 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

2. The Development of Individual Responsibility through a Study of Social 

Problems. Miss S. P. Breckenridge, University of Chicago. 

3. How the Individual Home Economist May Help General Economic Prog- 

ress. Professor WiUiam Morse Cole, Harvard University. 
11:00 a.m. Section on Textiles. Miss Abby Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, 
chairman. 
The Content of the Course of Study in Textiles. Miss NeUie Crooks, Mil- 
waukee-Downer College. Discussion by Miss Charlotte Gibbs, University of 
Illinois, and Miss Van Hoesen, Chicago University. 
Textile Experimentation. Miss Agnes Houston Craig, College of Industrial 

Arts, Denton, Texas. 
The Value of a Course in Historic Costume for the Domestic Art Curriculum. 
Miss Jane Fales, Professor of Textiles and Clothing, Teachers College, New York. 
Textile Testing Laboratory for U. S. Army. Miss Florence Winchell, Teachers 

College, New York. 
A Study of Bluings. Miss L. Ray Balderston, Teachers College, New York. 
Some Textile Tests, in connection with an Educational Exhibit. Grace Denny, 
Teachers College, New York. 
12:30 p.m. Luncheon at Teachers College. 

1:30 p.m. Instruction in Home Economics. Miss S. P. Breckenridge, University 
of Chicago, chairman. 

1. Knowledge of the Productive System as a Preventive of Waste. Miss Anna 

R. Van Meter, University of Illinois. 

2. Knowledge of the Industrial System as a Basis for Consumer's Responsibil- 

ity. Miss Edna D. Day, University of Kansas. 

3. Cost Accounting. Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Massachusetts Institute of 

Technology. 
Discussion. Miss Marion Talbot, University of Chicago. 
4:30 p.m. Reception to Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, the President of the Association^ 
by the Wednesday Club, at the Club Parlors. 



REPORT ON COLLEGE COURSES IN HOME ECONOMICS.* 

After considerable study of the condition of instruction in Home 
Economics in the colleges your committee has decided that what is 
most needed at present is a reasonable standardization of the regular 
courses in this subject leading to a bachelor's degree, and the plan- 
ning of college courses which will meet the rapidly growing demand 
for practical instruction in this subject and which will not sacrifice 
reasonable standards of collegiate instruction. Entrance require- 
ments which the preparatory schools are now unable to meet should 
not be insisted on, but at the same time those schools should be 
encouraged to introduce Home Economics courses. 

Recognizing that the determination of courses of instruction in 
Home Economics should lie primarily with the teachers and experts 
in this subject, your committee asked the American Home Economics 
Association to appoint a committee for conference with us. This was 
done at the meeting of that Association in Boston in January, 1910. 
Their committee includes the following: Prof. M. E. Jaffa, of the Uni- 
versity of CaHfornia; Dr. Edna D. Day, of the University of Kansas; 
Mrs. Mary P. Van Zile, of the Kansas State Agricultural College; Miss 
Ellen A. Huntington, of the Utah Agricultural College; and Miss 
Isabel Bevier, of the University of Illinois. 

The chairman of your committee had a personal conference with 
members of their committee in Chicago last June, and in this way and 
by correspondence the following report has been prepared as repre- 
senting the \uews of both committees. 

The college courses of study especially arranged for women will 
naturally include branches outside of what may strictly be defined 
as Home Economics. Students taking Home Economics courses 
leading to a bachelor's degree should be required to take other groups 

* This report was presented to the Association of American Agricultural Colleges 
and Experiment Stations, by its standing committee on instruction in agriculture, 
at Washington, D. C, Nov. 17, igio. The personnel of this committee is as 
follows: A. C. True, chairman, T. F. Hunt, H. C. White, H. J. Waters, W. E. 
Stone, and J. F. Duggar. 

25 



26 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

of subjects having more or less direct relation to the life of men, 
women and children in the home and in the community. Such, for 
example, are courses in personal physiology, hygiene and medicine, 
principles of education, sociology, library science, and others which in 
some colleges for convenience have been associated with the Home 
Economics department. It is desirable that Home Economics should 
be made a well-defined subject of reasonably limited range. For 
this reason our report begins with a definition of Home Economics. 

Home Economics, as a distinctive subject of instruction, includes 
the economic, sanitary and esthetic aspects of food, clothing and 
shelter as connected with their selection, preparation and use by the 
family in the home or by other groups of people. 

Instruction in this subject should be based on scientific principles 
and graded according to the maturity, attainments and purposes of 
the student. 

As in the case of other subjects, courses of instruction in Home 
Economics should be divided into general classes suited to the respec- 
tive requirements of elementary and secondary schools, normal schools, 
colleges and universities. 

In colleges and universities the work in Home Economics will 
naturally be pursued in three main divisions — research, interior 
instruction, and exterior instruction or extension work. The interior 
instruction may be given to undergraduates and graduates. With 
the development of collegiate instruction in Home Economics a 
variety of special courses will be offered in the larger institutions, and 
the students will thus be given opportunity to specialize according 
to their particular aims, as, for example, if they intend to become 
housewives, teachers, nurses, physicians, managers of hotels or public 
institutions, etc. 

At present it is desirable to set up and maintain a reasonable 
standard for undergraduate college courses in Home Economics, 
leading to the bachelor's degree. This paper will be confined to the 
consideration of such courses. 

Standard undergraduate college courses in Home Economics should 
be arranged with reference to students who have had the equivalent 
of general education covering the grades in the elementary schools 
and four years in the secondary school. If possible, students intend- 
ing to take courses in Home Economics in college should study this 
subject at least two years in the secondary schools and receive credit 
for this on entrance to college. 



igi i] College Courses in Home Economics 27 

It is, however, recognized that under existing conditions many of 
the students desiring to pursue Home Economics courses in our 
colleges cannot receive instruction in this subject in the preparatory 
schools available to them. It is, therefore, recommended that col- 
lege courses in Home Economics be arranged to meet the needs of 
such students, without requiring them to prolong the time needed to 
satisfy the college requirements for the bachelor's degree. 

All courses in Home Economics should be developed with an 
orderly and carefully graded sequence of subjects and topics. They 
should also take into account that the study of the theory of the 
subject, including especially the scientific principles involved in it, 
is intended to give a rational basis for an efficient practice and that 
the student has not mastered the subject until she is able to practice 
the art as well as expound its theory. 

The general scheme of instruction should involve (i) the presenta- 
tion of the subject in concrete form, with accompanying practice, (2) 
the development of the principles involved, with laboratory practice, 
and (3) the application of these principles in a rational system of 
practice more advanced in type, with opportunities for devising new 
methods of practice and for experimental work. 

The standard undergraduate college course in Home Economics 
leading to a bachelor's degree should include the following subjects: 

Required Subjects. 

1. Home architecture and sanitation. 

2. Home decoration. 

3. Textiles. 

4. Selection and preparation of food. 

5. Economic uses of food. 

6. Household management. 

Subjects from which choice must be made. 

7. Advanced cooking. Dressmaking or millinery. Art needlework. (At least 
one of this group.) 

8. Dietetics. Food and nutrition. Art in the home. (At least one of this 
group). 

Such other electives in Home Economics as the college can offer. 

The order of presentation suggested above is not essential, but the 
subjects should be taught in some definitely related order. 



28 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

For students who have not had instruction in Home Economics 
in preparatory schools the following minor college course is suggested 
to be required of candidates for a bachelor's degree: 

1. Plain sewing and garment making. 5. Textiles. 

2. Cooking. 6. Selection and preparation of food. 

3. Home architecture and sanitation. 7. Economic uses of food. 

4. Home decoration. 8. Household management. 

College students taking either of these courses in Home Economics 
should be required to add to them such groups of studies in mathe- 
matics, languages, science, economics, sociology, principles of educa- 
tion, etc., as will make their whole college course a well rounded scheme 
of liberal education, comparable with the degree courses in other lines, 
and at the same time contribute to the thoroughness of their work in 
Home Economics. Students taking the minor course in Home 
Economics might be allowed to elect additional work in Home Eco- 
nomics during the latter part of their college course. 

Short courses and extension courses, not leading to a degree, should 
be arranged for separately and are not taken into account here. 



A UNIVERSITY STANDARD IN HOME SCIENCE.' 

In connection with the Women's Congress, which was held in the 
Congress Hall of the Japan-British Exhibition at Shepherd's Bush, 
England, a discussion was held June 8, on the subject of A University 
Standard in Home Science. 

Lady Riicker, who presided, explained the purpose of the congress. 
At the British Association meeting at York, Professor Smithells had 
suggested that women were managing their own education so badly 
that they should leave it to men to say what women's education ought 
to be. Professor Smithells' humorous suggestion was perhaps one of 
the first public expressions of a conviction that had been steadily 
growing in many minds and this meeting showed that women were 
ready to take up his challenge to prove that they were only too anxious 
to advance along the path of educational progress. The scientific 
discoveries of the Victorian era had necessarily brought great changes 
into the school and university education of boys and men, but women's 
energies had, until recently, been so absorbed in getting the doors of 
the universities opened to them that they had perforce been obliged 
to follow the beaten track of the curriculum. 

Having proved their capacity to become as highly educated as men, 
women were now able to raise a further claim, the claim that the time 
had come when the universities should recognize that training for one 
more profession should be admitted within their walls — the profession 
of household administration. The need for eflSciency in technical 
affairs had forced the educational authorities to give degrees for the 
professions of law, medicine, engineering, veterinary surgery, and 
agriculture. Was it therefore too much to hope that the university 
would go a step further and recognize that inefficiency in women was 
as great a danger to the State as quackery in medicine? Would not 
our descendants look back with astonishment to the dark ages when 
girls undertook to be wives, mothers, or housekeepers with no techni- 
cal training, and in consequence wasted their substance, their health, 
and alas too often their own and their children's lives in the sad 
costly school of experience through mistakes? 

*From Education, July 2, 1910. 

29 



30 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

It was efficiency that we required in our women as in our men. 
The country was doing much to educate the poorer classes. The 
country councils were making splendid efforts and polytechnics were 
providing admirable classes But to get the best teaching we must 
have teachers with a university diploma and the subjects of Home 
Science and Economics required research students for many problems. 
It is impossible to reach the ideal that every woman should have a 
training to equip her for home Ufe before she is considered fit to 
leave school until the universities make it possible for the girls' schools 
to give this teaching by providing the teachers and by giving the 
encouragement of their examinations. This n brief was the history 
of the rise of the movement to secure a university standard in home 
science. 

The work has already taken definite shape and for the last two years 
King's College for Women has thrown open its doors and lent its aid 
to carrying out the plan of giving education of a university standard 
with a college diploma to students in Home Science Economics. The 
experimental years had been most encouraging. Not only had an 
excellent class of students presented themselves for the three-year 
undergraduate course of training, but a number of women who had 
already taken high degrees had entered for the one-year postgraduate 
course also given in the college, and some were entering upon interest- 
ing problems in research. Posts had been forthcoming at once for the 
students who had taken the college diplomas and it was hoped that 
the conference that day might lead to a wider recognition of the need 
of their training and of its admission to the curriculum of our uni- 
versities. 

Mrs. St. Loe Strachery, who gave the opening paper on The Ideals 
of Home Science, prefaced her remarks by a message to the congress 
from Theodore Roosevelt, to whom, knowing that the subject was one 
in which he was interested, she had described their aims and objects 
and had outlined roughly the scheme of the courses at King's College. 
Mr. Roosevelt gave his warmest approval and sympathy to the move- 
ment, and added that he was of the op'nion that it was an urgent 
necessity that a university standard should be established in its 
teaching. 

Mrs. Strachey defined a "university standard " as meaning the attain- 
ment in a student of such a standard of knowledge as would be re- 
warded by the grant of a degree if it had been attained in a subject in 
which our universities examined for a degree. In the special courses 



iQii] A University Standard in Home Science 31 

in home science which we^e being held at King's College for Women 
the teaching might claim to attain to a university standard. The 
students were not allowed to be content with merely acquiring a 
knowledge of the technical processes carried on in the practice of 
domestic science, but were required to study at first hand the various 
scientific principles which underie the proper conduct of a house or 
institution and the bringing up of the young. Quoting one or two 
examples from the syllabus, the speaker pointed out that the study 
of physics and sanitary science would be of use in the care of the 
fabric of a house. Applied chemistry had many lessons to teach 
which would be useful in those thousands of most unscientific labora- 
tories the kitchens of Great Britain, in preventing waste and improv- 
ing the physical condition of the people. It was true that women in 
our universities had for many years past studied physics, chemistry, 
biology, bacterioloi^y^ and, indeed, the whole list of sciences men- 
tioned in the syllabus, but the point on which she wished to lay stress 
was that these subjects should be studied in a definite coordinated 
course, having for its object "to provide a scientific education in the 
principles which underlie the whole organization of home life." 

In conclusion, Mrs. Strachey drew attention to the immense field 
of what she called "vicarious motherhood." All women who were 
in any way concerned with the care and training of the young were 
vicarious mothers, including that great army, the women teachers 
in our elementary and secondary schools. Should we not expect 
that their attention would be progressively directed throughout the 
whole course of their training to the scientific principles which under- 
lie he physical, mental, and moral development of their future 
charges? Yet this could not be done unless the teaching of home 
science were carried to a university standard. 

The Duchess of Hamilton said that, even when no practical work 
had been done technical knowledge made mistresses able to sym- 
pathize with and understand their employees, have better control 
over them, and, in consequence, have all work better done than if 
the day was gotten through in a merely slipshod manner. On the 
other hand it induced a more practical interest on the part of em- 
ployees, and more eflBcient service. Upon the girls of the upper classes 
rested the responsibility of the future home life of Great Britain, and 
to a great extent he progress of the empire. Queen Mary was cited 
as an ideal examp'e of one who had studied deeply and took a lively 
interest in all branches of knowledge, not forgetting to give the 
science of home life its proper place. 



32 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Miss Oakely, warden of the Women's Department of King's College, 
speaking on Home Science and Higher Culture, aid the new move- 
ment met the spirit of the age in its insistence that science should be 
everywhere, that reason should occupy all spheres, and that there 
should be no dark corners left; yet in meeting it they brought some- 
thing of their own, something that women had learned in the long 
history o their demand that their highest faculties should be used 
in the highest ways. Home science, however great its interest as a 
science, mus be a thing of the spirit, a thing pursued not merely 
as a means of health, safety, and comfort, but also as a measure of 
regeneration. 

Miss Faithful, principal of Cheltenham Ladies' College, who spoke 
on Home Science for Senior Girls pointed out that the movement 
was not confined to England, but was widespread in America and 
Germany. The schools of England were in favor of the movement, 
and the conversion of the headmistresses had been one of its most 
striking features. She held the view that senior girls should be defi- 
nitely taught some sc'ence. There was a danger that girls from the 
ages of 15 to 18 would develop the romantic faculties to the exclusion 
of all else, and the subject of home science offered a very great counter- 
poise. 

Mr. Y. Tadokoro, who !s attached to the Ministry of Public Instruc- 
tion in Tokio, spoke on the advance of female education n Japan. 
A there were fewer women than men, the proportion being 97 women 
to every 100 men, nearly all women married, and all the schools aimed 
at teaching the girls to be good wives and mothers. 

Mrs. Sidgwick, principal of Newnham College, was the last speaker. 
She said she approved of the home science courses but thought the 
title misleading and mischievous, preferring home arts and domestic 
arts to home science. 



WHAT COURSES IN SOCIOLOGY. PURE OR APPLIED. 
SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN COLLEGE DEPARTMENTS 
OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE }' 

George Elliott Howard, Ph.D. 

Head Professor of Political Science and Sociology, University of Nebraska. 

It is highly significant that the question to-day put to me should now 
be deemed expedient by this Association. It means that already, after 
an astonishingly short probation, the youngest of the new disciplines 
is before the college council seeking the just terms, the right basis, 
of admission to full academic privilege. It implies in that our 
country the hour has come seriously to consider the organization and 
standardization of superior instruction in the field of household science. 

Household Science as a Liberal Education. — Naturally the vital 
problem of proper specialization is the first to arise. If a college 
department of household science is to provide a liberal education, 
equivalent to that afforded by the older disciplines, how shall its pro- 
gram of studies be composed? With the distinctive technical studies 
in household science as a "major" — to use current professional 
phrase — what other subjects as "minors" should be combined so as 
to secure a culture at once deep enough and broad enough for social 
efiiciency? Now, it ought not to be so hard as it was a few years ago 
to reach an agreement on such a program. Happily we are perceiving 
more clearly than formerly the real harm of too narrow specialization, 
of too short scientific vision. In academic study, we are learning to 
distrust a specialization so minute, so confined, as often to produce 
mental sterility. We are coming to realize that there is such a thing 
as breadth for the sake of depth. This is decidedly true in the wide 
domain of the social sciences. The sociologist must know a good deal 
of economics, of history, of psychology, in order to be a sound 
sociologist; the economist must have a broad knowledge of sociology 
and of history, if he would get a firm grip on economics; while history 

'A paper read at the St. Louis Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December 29, 1910. 

33 



34 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

is too apt to prove a barren waste of mere events unless it be illumined 
and vitalized through economic interpretation and the constant 
recognition of social causation. Doubtless the perennial discussion 
of the interrelations of sociology and the other social sciences is not 
without real value. The endeavor to find boundaries is inevitable 
while a yoimg and ambitious body of learning is in the "analytic" 
stage and striving to become "synthetic" — to get recognition as a 
legitimate member of the scientific family. 

How Much May the Social Sciences Overlap? — Still, is there not 
danger of exaggerating the importance of running exact boundary 
lines? In actual research the main thing is to reach the truth, what- 
ever fence has to be crossed. As a practical rule of specialization, I 
venture the suggestion that no fixed lim.its need be set as to the degree 
in which the overlapping of the departmental areas of the respective 
social sciences is permissible. Perhaps such overlapping should be 
in direct ratio to the intensiveness of the particular study or investiga- 
tion. Probably, as a working guide it may be afiirmed that the 
results — the laws, truths, generalizations — obtained in each science 
are available in all, while the processes are not; though even in the 
latter respect a fixed limit would often prove a hindrance to the free 
handling of materials. The sociologist, for instance, will normally 
give due faith and credit to the historian's conclusions; but in a given 
case, if the historian has neglected the intensive work which the soci- 
ologist needs, or has not done it well, the sociologist perforce must 
turn historian and perform the task for himself as best he can. By 
the same token, as some of you have found out, the sociologist, by 
neglecting intensive work, may shift his own proper task to the 
shoulders of the household scientist. 

That sociology should fill a large space in the curricula of college 
departments of household science might be taken for granted, were it 
not for the facts disclosed by their published announcements. These 
reveal a surprising progress in the differentiation of the technical or 
professional studies peculiar to that science. Even in the smaller or 
younger institutions the student finds in the courses dealing with 
foods, shelter, clothing, personal hygiene, household administration 
and the like a rich feast spread before him. The progress already 
made on this side of the science deserves the highest praise. On the 
other side, the side of the supplementary studies needed to place these 
departrrents on a proper college basis, the showing is not so encourag- 
ing. Here and there courses in sociology are prescribed or made 



igii] Courses in Sociology and Household Science 35 

elective; but generally in the list of subjects required for a degree the 
conventional technical studies are supplemented by almost anything, 
from Greek to religious knowledge, without reference to sociology. 
Yet, I dare afl&rm, if college graduates in household science are to 
become efl&cient, even safe, leaders in the art of right living and home- 
building, they must gain the catholicity of sympathy, the enlightened 
toleration, the breadth of moral vision, the penetrating insight into 
the social-psychic forces and processes which in each age and environ- 
ment have moulded the t>-pe of the household; and these qualities 
can come only from an intimate acquaintance with sociology. 

What is Sociology? — But that depends: What is sociology? 
Verily, that is the question which reaches the vitals of this hour's dis- 
cussion. May I put before you my confession of faith? I have a 
profound distrust for that dry-as-dust sociology which spends its 
energy in fine-spun theorizing or in defending the legitimacy of its 
scientific birthright. Definition, theory, scientific construction lines 
have indeed each a rightful place in sociological thought, and they 
need not be entirely excluded from the seminar or even from the under- 
graduate classroom. Yet, has not the teacher who looks upon educa- 
tion as an equipment for social service a nobler, a more urgent duty 
to perform? Instead of trembling and vacillating lest he encroach 
on some other person's preserves, he will strive earnestly and bravely to 
put his science at the service of men. 

Sociology as Social Service. — Sociology should be an explanation of 
human experience in social living. It should touch actual social life 
at every salient point. Often the day's lesson may best be vivified 
and realized from current events. The alert teacher is never in want 
of materials for his laboratory. The morning journal may give him 
just the examples which he needs to kindle the fruitful imagination 
and clarify the understanding of his pupils. Conceived of in this 
way, sociology becomes the most practical of studies. Moreover, 
the intemperate assaults of conservative pedantry and the anti-social 
interests suggest that sociology is "making good." The sociologist 
is fast becoming the accepted modern apostle of social righteousness, 
preaching and practicing the new gospel of saving humanism. There 
is no evading the plain fact that the great constructive work of moral 
progress is being done by the expert students of the realities of modern 
social life; by the trained and fearless minds which make our colleges 
and universities radiant centers of helpful and honest thought. 

Now, sociology and household science are blood-kindred. But 



36 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

for the risk of stirring the jealousy of the economists, I should be 
tempted to say that they stand in the relation of parent and child. 
For, at bottom, would it be a very extravagant conceit to say that 
household science is a division of applied sociology? At any rate, 
are they not in a position to render each other an important reciprocal 
service? If sociology at its best, such as I have hinted at, has 
something precious for household science, household science in turn, 
by demanding expert assistance, may stimulate sociology to play a 
larger and more efficient role in education. 

A Holy Triad of Personalities. — Because of this close kinship, it 
becomes almost invidious to suggest courses in sociology for the 
special privilege of being accredited toward a liberal education in 
household science. It is hard to say which should be excluded. This 
is not surprising when one considers the history of the household. 
In some form, the household has always been the unit of social progress. 
Reflect on the vast spiritual or cultural content of the word! It 
connotes the trinity of institutions — three in one and yet one in three: 
marriage, family, and the home. It means the hearth where dwells 
the holy triad of personalities: father, mother, and child. What an 
endless stream of the social -psychic products that constitute human 
achievement has welled up and flowed out from the forces which 
dominate the household! What a host of the symbols, customs, 
modes, inventions, superstitions, beliefs, imperatives and ideals that 
rule the lives of men have been molded in the same social crucible! 
It will be a serious mistake, in planning a college education fit for the 
training of efficient leaders, if the more material factors of home- 
building — the economic, hygienic, or administrative factors, for in- 
stance — be isolated from the whole institutional or psychic life of 
the household. In a word, household science without sociology would 
be a body without a soul. In this ideal I feel sure of your sympathy; 
for is not your best literature illuminated by it? Are not those grand 
little books of your President (Mrs. Ellen H. Richards), for instance, 
from cover to cover inspired with the living spirit of dynamic sociology? 

For convenience of analysis, in considering the aspects of sociology 
of most value for household science, courses in four general divisions 
of the field are suggested: pure or general sociology, social psychology, 
applied and historical sociology, and social anthropology. Through- 
out the list, the use of the comparative method is taken for granted; 
while it is not overlooked that the courses outlined may only be 
adopted in whole or in part, treated intensively or summarily, accord- 



igii] Courses in Sociology and Household Science 37 

ing to the exigencies of each particular college. This evening, 
I take it, our purpose is to focus attention upon a definite program 
of sociological studies, so as to aid in eventually standardizing superior 
training in the related field. Now, the range of social phenomena is 
so vast that by judicious selection it seems possible to plan studies 
which, without sacrifice of scientific quality, may prove of unique value 
for our purpose. Accordingly, in some cases, the formal statement of 
a course is followed by a hint as to what accent of principle, what 
trend of discussion, or what choice of illustrative materials will render 
the subject most fruitful for household science. 

Suggested Courses in Sociology. 

Course I. General Sociology: A Study oj the Principles of Socio- 
logical Science. — After a brief examination of the characteristics of 
sociology, including definition, subject-matter, and relation to other 
social sciences, this course investigates in turn the social population, 
the social forces, the social processes, and those social products or 
structures most important for understanding the household. 

Such a course is of basic scientific value; and it will become intensely 
practical if vitalized through the expert choice of materials. Take, 
for instance, "social process," which Professor Ross well calls the 
"primordial fact," lying back of all social structures. It presents, as 
he suggests, a myriad aspects or varieties, corresponding to the count- 
less interlacing "actions and interactions of men." Here is an oppor- 
tunity to study social genesis, social causation. A form of marriage, 
a family type, a species of human dwelling, a domestic custom or 
implement, a household belief or superstition, each is a precipitate, 
a residuum, a product of social process, of "the quick cause before 
which," Emerson says, "all forms flee as the driven snows, itself 
secret, its works driven before it in floods and multitudes." 

Back of the social processes lie the social forces — the wants or 
desires of men. Here is the motive-power, the electricity, the "dy- 
namic agent," to use Professor Ward's term, which starts the social 
machinery and keeps social progress to its work. Consider the vast 
number and variety of the appetites, inclinations, ambitions, emotions, 
beliefs, and ideals which make up the surging mass of human wants 
or desires, the springs of individual and social action! Indeed, one 
hardly sees how sound or efficient training in the economics of the 
household can be attained without requiring a thorough study of the 



38 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

desires as social forces. Desires fix the values which we give to things. 
In these latter days, the economists have done well to include in their 
treatises a discussion of the " consumption of goods." Yet the sociolo- 
gist is especially equipped to throw a clear light on this subject. The 
philosoph}' of the desires carries us into the most secret councils of 
the domestic budget; it opens the hidden ledger of the family expenses 
and discloses the real m.otives determining the standard of living. 
For men consume, not according to their needs, but according to 
their wants; and their wants are of every sort: wise or foolish, frivolous 
or serious, pure or vile, base or lofty, selfish or altruistic, holy or unholy, 
in every possible combination. It will be a hard but worthy achieve- 
ment if the teacher of household science shall be able to do somewhat 
to socialize himaan wants. 

Back of social structure, social process, and social force, at the thresh- 
old of this course, is the social population. Experience has shown 
that the sociology of vital statistics is wonderfully fascinating to the 
student. In scarcely any other way can he gain so vivid a conception 
of the actualities of modern social life, or get so firm a grasp on the 
meaning of the new social service acti\Tities. The statistics of the 
urban density and growth of population, for instance, lead him di- 
rectly to the housing problem, with the related problems of the slum, 
the sweat-shop, the factory, and child labor. The figures relating to 
marriage and divorce land him in the very heart of a many-sided 
social-ethical discussion whose interest centers in the family. Even 
more enlightening is the tragedy of the death-rate. The student is 
appalled when he first comprehends the wanton sacrifice of human 
life, the reckless waste of our vital resources, through ignorance, dis- 
ease, and bad social condition. He shudders at the frightful mortal- 
ity of the slum and the insanitary tenement whose dark and bloody 
actions are perennial in our great cities. Gradually he realizes that 
slaughter in war is not so deadly as institutional murder in times of 
peace; and so he comes to understand, contrary to the popular view, 
that the real race-suicide now threatening society consists chiefly, 
not in a falling birth rate, be the cause what it may, whether higher 
or lower ideals, but a death rate needlessly high. Then he turns to 
the triumphs of scientific prevention, and takes new courage. To 
his amazement he learns that there is actually being achieved a con- 
quest of death; that in the occidental world since the coronation of 
English Elizabeth the average length of life has been more than 
doubled. Smallpox and yellow fever have been nearly routed; tuber- 



iQn] Courses in Sociology and Household Science 39 

culosis is on the run ; and even the campaign to prevent insanity is 
already begun. A single flash of knowledge enables him vividly to 
see how much the life of man lies in his own hand. For recently Prof. 
Irvdng Fisher has calculated that proper care for pure water, pure 
milk, and pure air — the blessed trinity of health — would increase the 
average span of life in the United States by eight years. 

Course II. Social Psychology: An Investigation of the Chief Psychic 
Factors in Social Evolution. — This course accents the varied aspects 
of suggestion — imitation and crowd psychology'. It studies the laws 
of craze and sect, fashion and conventionality, custom and tradition, 
discussion and public opinion; and it considers the role of suggestion 
in household education. 

Among teachers of experience the conviction is deepening that 
social psychology is by far the most practical, the most fruitful, divi- 
sion of sociological science. With wise selection, almost every lesson 
may touch the psychic life of the family. The unregenerate family 
is par excellence the stronghold of mob-mind. Where else is the tyr- 
anny of fashion, fad, and conventionality so severe? Where else do 
do custom and tradition hold more rigid sway? Where, in the Tardean 
sense, is there so much slavish imitation and so little invention as 
in household habit, economy, or administration? Where is the 
influence of suggestion so constant or so potent as in moulding the 
child's personality? Where else is undisciplined suggestion more 
harmful? On the other hand, when rightly disciplined or controlled, 
is it not likely that mental suggestion has a great and beneficent role 
to play in the future home education of the young? On this point, 
Dr. Sidis has recently made us all "sit up and take notice." More- 
over, for the organization of such a course, there is already a large and 
growing monographic and serial literature. In particular, the books 
of Baldwin, Sidis, McDougall, Davis, Cooley, Ward, and Ross, with 
the vast storehouse of illustration provided by Tarde, have made 
comparatively easy the analysis of materials for academic study. 

The two courses already suggested are fundamental. We may now 
invade the wide domain of historical and applied sociology. 

Course III. History of the Family and Related Institutions. — i. 
Early history: Theories as to the genesis of marriage forms and 
family types; mother-right and father-right; polyandry, polygamy, 
and monogamy; wife-capture and wife-purchase; economic and re- 
ligious influences on the rise of family institutions; types of clan and 
family dwellings. 2. Mediaeval history: Marriage and the family 



40 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

under Teutonic customs and canon law; influence of the Reformation. 
3. Modern history: Decline of paternal authority; individualization 
for the sake of socialization; growth of various forms of social control 
of the domestic relations; problems of marriage, divorce, and sex-edu- 
cation, the home and the industrial revolution. 

Such a course, properly treated, is suitable for either graduates or 
undergraduates. Its literature is enormous and very hard to read. 
It may be supplemented by the following intensive study, for the 
construction of which I am especially indebted to the expert skill of 
my colleague, Dr. Lucile Eaves. It is so rich in the culture elements 
essential for our purpose that it alone might almost furnish a liberal 
education in the principles of social service. Possibly a very detailed 
analysis m.ay prove helpful in planning the new college program in 
household service. 

CouESE IV. The Interrelations of tJte Home and Modern Social 
Betterment Movements. — i. The fundamental importance of family 
life in all forms of social betterm.ent. 2. The founding of the home: 
Significance of studies in eugenics and in sex-hygiene; social value 
of the legal regulations controlling marriage. 3. The selection of the 
dwelling: Tests of suitable sanitation; choice of social environment; 
agencies for assisting in the purchase of a home. 4. Social significance 
of the period of infancy : Individual and social gains due to the pro- 
longation of infancy; infant mortality, its causes and prevention. 

5. The social psychology of the home: Social lessons to be emphasized 
at different periods in the development of the child; systematic train- 
ing in a sense of social responsibility; psychological value of the cere- 
monies of family life; systematic education in the psychology of sex. 

6. The social hygiene of the home: Utilization of public health service; 
avoidance of infection; responsibilities in the protection of the com- 
munity health. 7. Economic aspects of home life: Training for par- 
ticipation in the economic activities of family life; systematic teaching 
of thrift; responsibility of the home for the maintenance of improve- 
ment in the standard of living; social significance of typical family 
budgets. 8. Cooperation between the home and other institutions of 
the community: The home and the school; home and the church; home 
and voluntary social service clubs and leagues. 9. The breakdown of 
the home and the call for social control: Substitution of the juvenile 
court and the parental school; methods of dealing with dependent fam- 
ilies; care of the homeless child; compulsory medical and sanitary in- 
spection. 10. Recreational life of the home: New views about the sig- 



191 1] Courses in Sociology and Household Science 41 

nificance of recreation; ways of organizing and promoting the social 
life of the family; dangerous forms of recreation; the peril of child 
labor. II. Utilization within the home of the cultural opportunities 
of the community: Use of municipal and state libraries; means of 
promoting art education; available information in government publica- 
tions; ways of using parks, museums, etc. 12, Social and civic activi- 
ties of the family: Ways in which children may be trained for social 
and civic duties; forms of social and civic work that could be carried 
out by the family group. 

Such a course carries systematic education far into a neglected but 
fertile field. How many of the most fruitful activities of modern 
social life are ignored by the schools! Household science itself has 
come in response to the rising demand for the socialisation of educa- 
tion. To aid in organizing and appreciating this movement, the next 
course is suggested. In substance. Professor Eaves is now giving it 
with excellent results in the University of Nebraska. 

Course V. The Social Training of Children. — i. The demand of 
leading educators for more definite social training. 2. The develop- 
ment of the child in its relation to moral and social education. 3. What 
the school may do to explain and strengthen the social and economic 
life of the home. 4. Significance of the play of children. 5. Super- 
vision of the social life of adolescents. 6. Critical examination of 
modern experiments in the moral instruction and training of children, 
including a stud\ of (a) Dr. Dewey's former experimental school at 
the University of Chicago; (b) the school of the New York Society for 
Ethical Culture; (c) the work of the English Moral Instruction 
League; and (d; French courses of study and texts used in moral 
education. 7. Discussion of proposed plans and methods for pro- 
moting vocational training in the public schools. 

Even so novel a course as this is not sufficiently intensive to meet 
all the demands of modern society upon the teacher for aid. There 
is an urgent call for systematic home and school education in sex- 
problems. Here and there, as under Professor Jessie Phelps at the 
Michigan State Normal College, excellent work in a most practical 
and sensible way is being done; but such instruction should become a 
matter of course through the land. Is it not meet that college depart- 
ments of household science and sociology should join hands in the 
training of leaders for this much needed service? Perhaps such a 
program as the following is feasible: 



42 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Course VI. Sex-Education. — i. The elementary biology and phys- 
iology of sex. 2. The customs, beliefs, symbols, and folklore of early 
societies regarding the sexual life and reproduction. 3. Instruc- 
tion needed as a preparation for marriage and the functions and re- 
sponsibilities of motherhood and fatherhood: Biological and social 
significance of courtship; "romantic love," its value and its danger; 
orio-in and social menace of the double standard of sex-morality. 
4. Negative eugenics: Sterilization of criminals; legal restraints on 
the marriage of the unfit. 5. Social diseases: The organized move- 
ment to check the great "black plague"; social causes and proposed 
remedies of prostitution; the "white slave" trafiic. 6. Positive eu- 
genics: Heredity and selection for the improvemient of the human 
breed. 7. The Odin-Ward doctrine of potential genius. 

The youngest and one of the most helpful branches of sociology is 
social anthropology. It deals with the social or cultural elements of 
anthropology as distinguished from the merely physical. The subject 
is packed with information relating to the early life of man in the 
household and the tribe. Here are two courses which in the hands of 
Prof. Hutton Webster of the University of Nebraska have proved 
decidedly successful: 

Course VII. Primitive Culture: A Study of the Early Life of Man- 
kind as Revealed in Monuments and Implements, Customs, Institutions, 
and Beliefs. — i. The origin and development of language; the begin- 
nings of writ ing and alphabets. 2 . Discovery and use of fire ; primitive 
industrial methods; food and clothing; the domestication of plants and 
anim.als; early methods of transportation. 3. Beginning of scientific 
knowledge; of the fine arts; of music and poetry. 4. Marriage and 
family life amongst the lower races. 5. Beginnings of government. 
6. Evolution of private property and money; of slavery and serfdom; 
of crime and primitive justice; early religious ideas, rites and mythol- 
ogy. 

Excellent texts for such a study are E. B. Taylor, Anthropology 
(New York, 18S1), and W. I. Thomas, Source Book for Social Origins 
(Chicago, 1909). 

Course VIII. Folklore: A Study of Those Features of Pritnitive 
Culture Which Still Remain Amon?^ Civilized Peoples. — i. Folk-faith: 
Survivals of savage belief in spirits, in magic, and in myths and le- 
gends. 2. Folk-literature: Fairy tales, ballads, nursery rhymes, prov- 
erbs, riddles, and fables. 3. Folk-customs: Popular festivals, cere- 
monies, games and sports, symbols, and minor superstitions. 



19 1 1] Courses in Sociology and Household Science 43 

Valuable aids for this study are A. C. Haddan, The Study of Man 
(New York, i8g8), and M. R. Cox, An Introduction to Folk-Lore 
(2d ed., London, 1904). 

Shall the Family Group Be Re-Socialized? 

These eight courses, it is hoped, may serve at least as a "trial" 
answer to the question set for this hour's discussion. The subject is 
by no means exhausted; yet, under present conditions, it is probable 
that few departments may be able to adopt even the suggested pro- 
gram. There is room for election and for substitution. In this 
paper, an effort has been made to reveal the meaning for social prog- 
ress of a close fraternal alliance between sociology and household 
science. For the hardest and noblest task now demanded of the 
teacher is to create a rational system of education, broad enough and 
deep enough to embrace every aspect of the family-life in its relations 
to the larger social life. There must be provided a many-sided train- 
ing for marriage and parenthood as well as for the economic, artistic, 
and administrative factors of home-building. The home must be 
rescued from the din and throng of the market-place; it must regain 
something of the group-privacy which it had before the industrial 
revolution; but it must not do so at the expense of mental isolation. 
The home will not have less sanctity when through it flows the swift 
current of the larger social life. In our days, the family group as such 
is no longer recognized in law — by the state. Its ancient corporate 
bond has been dissolved. Yet it still has spiritual ties which may be 
strengthened through education. Is it too wild a fancy to dream 
that sometime the family group may again become socialized? When 
through the efficient training of its members in household science and 
in the sociology of the domestic relations the family has "found 
itself" as a psychic fact, when it has become thoroughly aware of its 
proper functions in the social order, may it not safely and profitably 
be awarded by the state a large and concrete share in the world's 
administrative work? 



COURSES IN SOCIOLOGY. 
Charles A. Ellwood, Ph.D. 

Professor of Sociology, University oj Missouri. 

I need not say that I am in very hearty accord with all that Pro- 
fessor Howard has said in his excellent paper. What I shall say is 
supplementary, in the way of approaching the subject from a 
slightly different standpoint. 

Whether sociology has any vital relation to household science or 
not depends, of course, upon the point of view. If household science 
deals merely with questions of food, shelter, and clothing, then, of 
course, these questions can be studied quite independently of the home 
or the family as an institution, for we should still need food, shelter, 
and clothing even though the institution of the family and the private 
home were abolished, as we understand them. It is only when we 
assume the family and the private home as necessary social institu- 
tions that Home Economics becomes a genuinely social science. That 
this is assumed by you is indicated by the name of your Association. 
I like the name "Home Economics" for that reason, although I fee) 
that household science, as Professor Howard has indicated, would be 
an even more exact designation for your science, because the word 
economics in modern times has come to be limited to the material 
things of life, whereas I believe that household science should consider 
not less the spiritual things in the household. 

If the home or the private household is assumed as a necessary 
social institution, and is the real subject matter of your science, then 
household science becomes an applied social science, and its relation 
to sociology is that of the relation of any applied science to the pure 
science upon which it is based. Now, sociology is a pure science and 
for the purpose of our discussion, I think may be adequately defined 
as the biology and psychology of the social life. At any rate in its 
theoretical aspects this is exactly what sociology is, the biology and 
psychology of human association 

The family is one of the fundamental forms of human association, 
and it is upon the family as an institution that our whole social life 

44 



iQii] Courses in Sociology 45 

rests. The home or the household may be defined as the more or less 
material embodiment of this most intimate form of himian association 
which we know as the family, the association of husband and wife, 
and parents and children. It must be evident, therefore, that house- 
hold science must take in^-o account, or rather must be based upon, 
the knowledge of the biological and psychological factors at work in 
the institution of the family. The biological factors in the home, or 
in the family life, have certainly not been neglected by your science, 
and especially not on the side of nutrition, sanitation, and the like. 
The real vital elements, however, in the family are the relations of 
individuals to one another, and these relations are mainly psycholog- 
ical or spiritual, as we say. It is not sufficient that the nutrition and 
health of all members of the family be looked after, it is even more 
important that all the relations of the family to one ano'^her be of 
such a character as to constitute what we call a good home. The 
real object of your science can surely be nothing less than to secure 
the up-building of good homes, homes which shall produce the highest 
type of manhood and womanhood. Therefore, the spiritual aspects 
or functions of the family and the home must be taken account of by 
the student of household science. 

Household science can hardly be studied intelligently without 
understanding the meaning, the function, and the purpose of the fam- 
ily and the home life in the total life of humanity. This means that 
we must consider the family and the home as social institutions related 
to every other social institution and having a vast purpose in the total 
human life. This function is really the greatest of all social functions, 
for it is the function of producing the new individuals in society, 
equipping them for life, and sending them forth to do their work in the 
world. Workers in household science need to see their movement, 
therefore, as a part of the vast movement which is now going on for 
social uplift. The movement for instruction in the household sciences 
is essentially a movement for social betterment; hence the student of 
household science needs to understand the connection of her work 
with all the movements in human society for social improvement, 
such as the movement for better housing, against child labor, and the 
like. Every housekeeper would indeed find a new meaning and a 
new dignity in her work if she could realize its bearing upon the total 
life of humanity. It seems to me that this outlook, this understand- 
ing of the deeper meaning of her work which the student of household 
science, and even every housekeeper needs, can only be gotten from 



46 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

the study of the origin and development, structure and function of the 
family as an institution in society, that is, it can only be gotten from 
sociology. 

I fear Professor Howard has frightened some of you by outlining no 
less than eight courses in sociology which should be taken by the stu- 
dent of household science. I agree with him that all these courses 
should be taken, and especially by one who does graduate work in 
household science. I take it, however, that he was giving you a "coun- 
sel of perfection" rather than presenting the irreducible minimum 
of courses in sociology necessary for the ordinary student in household 
science who takes only four years for a course. I would reduce the 
required courses to three in number: First a course in general sociol- 
ogy in order that the biological and psychological factors in the social 
life generally and the place of the family in the collective life may be 
imderstood; secondly, a special course on the origin, development and 
function of the family; and thirdly, a course on modern philanthropic 
and social movements to show the intimate connection between all 
improvement of living conditions in the family and improvement in 
living conditions in the community generally. 

In my opinion it would be well if the first two courses, the course 
in general sociology and in the sociology of the family should be united 
in a single course — the family being made to illustrate the working of 
the essential biological and psychological factors in the social life. 
This is what has been done at the University of Missouri for a number 
of years with great success. The student gets in one course his general 
view of society and a considerable degree of special knowledge regard- 
ing the origin, development, and modern conditions of the family 
and the home. For these three courses not more than ten hours 
would be needed out of a total of the one hundred and twenty required 
for graduation. I, therefore, conclude that these three courses should 
be required, and not elective, for all students specializing in house- 
hold science. 



WHAT COURSES IN SOCIOLOGY, PURE OR APPLIED. 

SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN SCHOOLS OR COLLEGE 

DEPARTMENTS OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE?^ 

Anna Garlin Spencer. 
University of Wisconsin. 

After a discussion of Home Economics courses for both successful 
home making and vocational usefulness, Mrs. Spencer spoke as fol- 
lows: 

On the other hand, those technical schools of household science that 
minister to the needs of moie mature students, those who are in train- 
ing for higher paid and more responsible positions, — professional, 
commercial, mechanical, philanthropic, — should offer to their students 
thorough courses in sociology, not only as contributing toward a 
knowledge of theories of social development, history of institutions, 
social psychology, social control, and social progress, but also those 
elements of applied sociologv which give a permanent foundation for 
personal and social ethics and a definite method of human uplift. 
If such a high-grade technical school is attached to a university, it can 
easily secure the needed instruction along these lines; if it is an in- 
dependent school it must provide its own professors in the science 
of human development and the art of conscious human progress. 
Psychology, personal and social; physical development, on a well 
defined biological foundation; the history and meaning of social insti- 
tutions; social aspects of education as a "process in the spiritual evo- 
lution of the race" — these are essential studies. The evolution of 
the family and its vital place in the socialization of the individual; 
the racial, political and economic factors in civilizations; the control 
and aboUtion of social ills, such as crime, vice, disease, poverty; the 
outUning of a social ideal in general and in particular as related to 
one's own locality; the essential next steps in social progress and how 
to attain them; — surely these are vital necessities of study for women 

'A condensation of a paper presented at the St. Louis Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, December 1910. 

47 



48 The Journal of Home Economics [Februaxy 

of "light and leading," whether in vocational positions or at the head 
of private homes of social influence. It seems also that educational 
institutions dealing with the mechanics and the economics of the home 
life might well lead in emphasizing these social values of that home 
life and the society of which it is the center. 

It should be added that the ethical content of applied sociology 
must be clearly and inspiringly presented in courses for women stu- 
dents if those courses are to make their strongest appeal. The genius 
of womanhood is intensely practical, and the function oE motherhood 
has given an unconquerable tendency toward personalization in social 
service; and hence, the law of human development must be translated 
for the average young woman in terms of the duty of social service 
and the gospel of social uplift, in order to reach her inmost sources of 
distinctive power. The fact also that "teaching is woman's organic 
oflSce," and that other fact — that in all ages she has been socially 
charged with the care and protection of the child, the aged, the weak, 
the defective and the incompetent, — should give a strong leaning 
toward the further translation of applied sociology in terms of enlight- 
ened philanthropy and moral reform. The home must be itself social- 
ized as well as help to socialize its inmates. If so, then the women 
must be socialized, not alone in feeling but in perception of moral 
values and the true uses of idealism. 

What has been said in regard to sociological studies in technical 
schools of household science applies with equal force to such depart- 
ments in colleges and universities. No woman can be considered 
highly educated today who has not some knowledge along these lines 
to give her breadth of view and poise of character. If men may be 
safely left to specialize in vocations without that clear sense of inter- 
relationship of parts and law-governed movements in the whole of 
society which sociological studies are so well fittea to give, woman can 
not be so left a prey to unbridled specialization. For women, as moth- 
ers, are and must be the centre of the social structure and must be 
fitted adequately to keep social progress steady and evolutionary, 
instead of leaving it to become erratic and revolutionary ; and the best 
balanced education for women, therefore, is a vital social necessity. 
The most invaluable of variations from type, even genius itself, 
must be used at last, as contributions merely to the commonwealth 
of the commonplace "fabric of the world." Women must aid in this 
process, not merely by force of biological laws, but by intelligent pur- 



iQii] Courses in Sociology for Schools and Colleges 49 

posive effort, such as a better knowledge of social law and social ten- 
dencies can give. 

So far as the normal schools are concerned, all elements of sociol- 
ogy, pure or applied, which have particularly to do with the social 
aspects of education, are indispensible for the training of teachers. 
Nor should this sociological approach to education be sharpened too 
exclusively toward the School as a social institution. The State has 
taken over from the Family and the Church the control of education, 
and the School is in closest touch with the home and the ethical 
ideals of society. The School in the United States is the one unify- 
ing influence in our "melting pot" of nations. 

The greatest of social needs in our country seems to be a minimum 
of ethical ideal common to all classes as a basis of agreement in the 
training of children, and of decision concerning imperative next steps 
of social reform and progress. Herbart declares our chief need in 
education to be "character training, based on an irrefragible founda- 
tion of morality." Where shall be found that irrefragible foundation 
of morality, save in the testimony of human experience, deduced by 
searching and fearless inquiry into the social results of motives and 
acts as these are interpreted by the trained reason? Only an irrefrag- 
ible foundation of morality of such a sort can be a united morality, 
strong enough to control vagrant and unsocial impulse, dominate 
education, and give method to social action. If it is true that 
we need this minimum of commonly accepted ethical standard, we 
must get it from the School chiefly, but it must carry its sanctions 
over into the home and realize its ideals through the political and eco- 
nomic and social order. If we depend chiefly upon the School to ini- 
tiate a moral unification as a guide to the common life, and if the School 
can only do this as it bases its ethics on the experience of the race, 
we must grow teachers for the public elementary schools capable of 
the high exercise of mind this inquiry into the verdict of the nature 
of things demands. How can we do it unless we have not only courses 
of study in sociology, pure and applied, in the normal schools, but an 
atmosphere of valiant truthseeking and scientific veracity equal to 
that any college or university can boast? The normal schools, with 
or without courses in household science must be enlarged in this man- 
ner: but it so happens that manual training and nature study and art 
work and household science courses have already made inroads into 
the antiquated curriculum of normal schools, and the group of "pro- 



50 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

gressives" represented by the teachers of these subjects are opening 
the way to more scientific and accurate work in sociology. Hence the 
appropriateness of using such departments for the extension of that 
social knowledge which teachers of the common people most need. 

One word I beg to add respecting the high school and its depart- 
ments of household science in relation to courses in sociology. The 
high schools were not included definitely in the question this paper 
has tried to answer; but no problem in education pleads more elo- 
quently for solution than that of a possiLle grounding of pupils of the 
high school in the main principles of social science. Since but a small 
fraction of young people go to college, and attendance upon day and 
evening high school is constantly and rapidly increasing, the question 
is important. And since departments of household science in high 
schools reach and influence tens of thousands of young girls where the 
college and technical school reach their hundreds, those who believe 
in the value of sociological study in connection with such departments 
must press the question. In the reaction of the School upon the Fam- 
ily, we find a strategic point where the boy and girl, at the time when 
their individualism and sense of choice are keenest, take from the 
high school to the home the standards they gain from its teaching. 
Moreover, while the college woman, if she has profited by her oppor- 
tunity to gain command of culture-tools, can easily make good defi- 
ciencies in her college course as they reveal themselves to her ripened 
experience, the average girl of well-to-do and fairly well educated 
parents who ends her formal schooling on the day she graduates from 
high school has learned so little of so many things that she is likely 
to fail in knowledge of ways of getting the later instruction she needs. 
If she is to know anything of sociology, she must get it early: or per- 
haps very late in " tabloid form," at clubs or lecture courses. But how 
teach Sociology, pure or apphed, in the high school ? Surely not pure 
sociology, at all, at least by text books. To see youth struggling 
under, not with, abstract statements of social laws and conditions, 
or confused by much descriptive treatment of the remote or strange 
in human existence, is a sorry sight ! 

Applied sociology, however, taught by a teacher who is saturated 
with sound and balanced theory, but vital and appealing in practical 
use, is distinctly a high school study. It is, however, in my opinion, 
the ethical content of applied sociology that should form the basis of 
such study in classes below college. Civics, based on right under- 
standing of group relationship and the social institutions, especially 



igii] Courses in Sociology for Schools and Colleges 51 

the Family and the State, which have given us our sense of human 
solidarity; vocational ethics in choice and standards of work, includ- 
ing such study of economic history and its social inter-relations as may 
throw light upon personal problems and lead to large views of human 
industry and of personal achievement; and the sociological basis for 
self-culture, physical, mental, moral, the cosmic reasons for making 
the most and test of oneself as a part of the social whole — all these 
and more constitute that ethics which Ward tells us "is a part of 
applied sociology." And since youth is vital in its relation to life, 
questioning all things with its imperious "What have you for me?", 
it seems clear that youth has a right to gain certain universal standards 
of choice and of action in the conduct of life, from the right applica- 
tion of sociological theories and facts from the right sort of teacher. 

Most that I have written seems to apply to the teaching of socio- 
logy, whether or not associated with household science, and may there- 
fore need excuse as too general. It is not forgotten, however, that 
schools and departments of household science, because they deal with 
family life, are closest perhaps of all to the rapidly clarifying con- 
sciousness of the need for more, and more thorough and effective, in- 
struction in sociology. The reason of this is that the family, of all 
social institutions, the household, of all our inherited industrial cen- 
ters, are most profoundly affected by the economic change of modern 
life. And women are in the storm centre of this profound reorgani- 
zation of the family and of household labor. They must be, for they 
are the centre of this centre. 

Therefore, if sociology has any guidance for womanhood in an hour 
of radical change of circumstance, any fresh sanctions for established 
codes of morals in marriage, any new readings of social responsibility 
for the home in a!n hour when the old admonitions fail to command, 
in the name of social health and social progress, send all the girls and 
women to school to the new science! And if they take it more 
eagerly, as seems to be the case, when mixed with special ingredients 
called household science, by all means make the combination! 



EXTRACTS FROM A DISCUSSION OF THE EDUCATION 

OF GIRLS IN DOMESTIC SOCIOLOGY AND 

THE ARTS OF HOME-MAKING. 

James Peter Warbasse, M.D. 

Author oj Sociology of Health, The Conquest of Disease, etc. 

Household Hygiene. — Whatever compliments may be paid to modern 
architecture, the fact remains that most homes are deficient in general 
sanitation. As witnesses to this are tuberculosis and the long cata- 
logue of respiratory diseases and other ills which are essentially 
house-bred maladies. The modern house breeds disease, and one of 
the crying defects of modern education is that the keepers and inhabi- 
tants of the house have not been taught that much may be done to 
obviate the dangers, and that they are largely responsible. During 
the present year we may calculate that about one-fortieth of the popu- 
lation of the United States will be constantly sick. That means that 
every day there will be 2,000,000 homes harboring sick people; and 
most of these will be sick with preventable diseases, that is, illnesses 
which the application of knowledge would have obviated. 

There are homes in which children or adults are sick pretty much 
all of the time through the winter; and there are other homes in which 
such sickness is unusual. The difference will commonly be found to 
reside in the observance by the latter of certain principles of hygiene 
of which the former are ignorant. I am acquainted with young 
women who according to the standards of their social environment 
would be regarded as cultured and enlightened, but whose ignorance 
when they become mothers, I can predict, will cost their children a 
great price. 

It is not necessary that every one in the household shall be wise; 
the influence of one woman who is familiar with hygiene is often suffi- 
cient to create the atmosphere of salubrity. That a mother shall be 
conversant with the conditions essential to the preservation of health 
must be obvious. But where shall she learn them? Or shall it be 
left to chance? Is not prevention better than summoning the doctor? 

52 



igii] Education of Girls in Domestic Sociology 53 

General household sanitation may be studied with profit by every 
young woman who expects to live in a house. Ventilation is so 
meagerly understood by the average woman that one might have the 
impression that she does not realize that fresh air is really essential 
to health. Graduates of our institutions for higher education sleep 
by preference, not compulsion, in bedrooms in which the air is vicious, 
poisoning themselves with the exhalations from their own bodies. 
The "night air" dread, founded upon superstition and ignorance, is 
rife among them. But they are not the only sufferers; their children 
pay the penalty of the mother's deficiencies, and the gamut of child- 
destroying respiratory illnesses runs through all of the year excepting 
the summer months when air is permitted. 

Bad air is one of the greatest of the curses afflicting society — far 
greater than alcohol, and more subtle and insidious in its operations. 
It is responsible for a large part of the ills which demand the services 
of the physician during the shut-up months of the year. Girls will 
not learn this at their clubs, in the current magazines, or in society; 
but if they are taught it in a practical and scientific manner they will 
remember it. The teaching upon this subject in the average class in 
physiology is a travesty. In one class in a large preparatory school 
for girls, the teacher, after elaborating upon the merits of fresh air, 
concluded with the admonition that the bedroom windows should be 
left open at night two inches at the top and bottom; and the students 
knew that the teacher's own practice was to keep her windows tightly 
shut. 

Out-of-door sleeping should be taught not only to be a desirable 
but also a practical thing. A wholesome impetus can be given to 
the appreciation of fresh air by an explanation and, if possible, by a 
demonstration of outdoor sleeping. That more and more people 
are doing this should be taught; and also the prophecy may be ven- 
tured that, as the day was when bathrooms were not an essential, 
the day is coming when a house without provisions for outdoor sleep- 
ing will be regarded as being as incomplete as a house without a bath- 
room. 

Cleanliness should be scientifically understood by those responsible 
for the order of homes and food. This subject until recently was upon 
a rule-of-thumb basis; but the science of bacteriology has defined just 
what cleanliness is and placed it within the realms of accuracy. Clean- 
liness has both an hygienic and an esthetic side. Its practical signifi- 
cance should be elucidated. 



54 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

A final subject for consideration under household hygiene is that of 
heating. It might be said that a woman need not know anything of 
the methods of heating houses; but this subject is introduced because 
of the inconvenience, to say the least, which is entailed by the average 
housewife's lack of knowledge of it. It does not involve much time or 
labor to present to a young woman the principles of house heating, 
the means by which it is accomplished, its economics, and hygiene. 
That the American home is overheated is generally conceded. The 
educated woman should know what this means, and just what are 
the objections to it. 

The peculiarities of the various methods of heating may with advan- 
tage be described — the stove, the fireplace, the furnace, radiators, and 
heating by indirect radiation. The dangers of those intolerable 
heating iniquities, the oil stove and the gas stove, should be presented. 
The importance of maintaining adequate moisture in the air in the 
presence of artificial heat is another matter worthy of attention. 

Extrinsic Social Relations. — The home can be made of importance 
in its relations to the community and, indeed, this should be regarded 
as one of its duties to society. To be sure, the home is organized for 
the protection, culture, and promotion of the members of the family; 
but it serves its highest function when its benefits are disseminated 
into other homes and among other individuals. 

Views differ as to how far this may be carried. It is my own opin- 
ion that it should be carried as far as possible so long as it does not 
interfere with the closeness and integrity of the family circle. 

In considering the extrinsic social relations we should think of the 
important question, what can the home do for society besides sending 
out into the world its best products, men and women? The home as a 
social center should be discussed. Its obligation to invite others into 
it to partake of its atmosphere and to bring into it something in ex- 
change is patent. It cannot wisely be shut off from the communal 
interests. Let no man regard his house as an ascetic monastery on 
the one hand or as a public tavern on the other. 

The conditions which give the home social standing and the esti- 
mate which the community places upon it are worthy of considera- 
tion. Home social functions, their meaning and importance, may be 
impressed upon the student with advantage. In a school for girls in 
one of our great cities the classes appoint committees on entertain- 
ment, whose business it is on certain occasions to administer all of 
the business of a reception or other similar affair. This is one of the 



igii] Education of Girls in Domestic Sociology 55 

best features of the education received by the young women in this 
school, although it is no part of the curriculum. These committees 
have the whole responsibility of decorations, ordering and paying for 
the food, issuing invitations, providing some special features of interest, 
receiving the guests, dressing and appearing graciously, harmonizing 
and carrying on the function, and then putting things in order when 
it is done. It is all of value because it is in line with preparation 
for life. Still, comparatively few mothers appreciate its importance. 
They say "My daughter receives all of this training at home." Does 
she? Positively no. At home, the mother does the ordering, assumes 
the responsibility, and demands to be the central figure of the show; 
the father pays the bills, the maids clear up the muss, and the mother 
lies in bed in the morning to get over her headache. The way to train 
a girl for responsibility is to give her responsibility. 

The school may wisely put in its curriculum instruction in the 
sociology of the sort of entertainment that is worth while. View the 
average afternoon women's party, whether it be "bridge" or "tea," 
and one becomes first impressed with the superficiality and inanity 
of the thing. If he looks a little closer the hypocrisy can be seen just 
under the surface. But of open-mindedness, culture, enlightenment, 
or the opportunity for the propagation of an idea, he will see but 
little in this atmosphere of chatter, rustling silks, perfumery, and 
stuffiness. It is at least an opportunity for pedagogy, if not its func- 
tion, to tell girls the things that are worth while and encourage their 
interest in them. 

Wealth and Want. — No girl enters life with an adequate education 
unless she has been taught the real meaning of wealth and want. She 
should not be expected to pick up the essentials from the desultory 
reading of essays or novels or even from casual conversations or lec- 
tures. The time to impress her with the lessons of the comparative 
values of things is while she is studying the lessons which she under- 
stands are to prepare her for life. Let girls have presented to them 
in a systematic and interesting manner, by a teacher whom they re- 
spect and honor, a catalogue of the things that are worth while, the 
things that make for the best happiness, the things which any woman, 
rich or poor, can lay hold of, and which make for growth and culture. 
Let them be taught the real meaning of wealth and poverty. 

While the lot of most women will fall with that of the so-called 
middle class, the student may wisely be given some instruction con- 
cerning the relations of the woman to the home under the conditions of 



56 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

the two extremes — financial wealth and poverty. Consideration can 
be given to the obligations and opportunities of wealth. The pernicious 
effects of the prevalent charity of giving should be contrasted with 
constructive charity. And the opportunities of the poor are also 
worthy of being touched upon. The essential is that girls shall be 
given a broad insight into values, and that they shall be imbued with 
the spirit to seize upon and make the most of the opportunities which 
life offers. 

Household Emergencies. — Household emergencies may more properly 
be designated without the limiting adjective, for emergencies which 
occur within the household may also transpire outside it. That 
emergencies of one sort or another are of frequent occurrence is well 
known. Whether or not the result is to be one of disaster is usually 
determined by the presence of some individual who knows what to 
do and does it. It is not necessary to enter into a discussion of all of 
the unexpected calamities which may confront the household. The 
chiefest belong in the category of bodily traum.atisms, drowning, sick- 
nesses, and fire. Some instruction in first aid to the injured should 
be given to every girl who is to have a practical education. She may 
not be made able to meet with perfect scientific skill the requirements 
demanded in a case of hemorrhage, fracture, choking, or fainting, but 
she can be put in possession of sufficient knowledge so that she shall 
not stand by, scream, and wring her hands in helpless misery. She 
should have in her mind enough practical knowledge to know that 
there is something to be done at once. She can at least be saved from 
doing some absurd and unscientific thing which can only have the 
effect to prolong delay and make it seem that something is being done 
when it is not. Every ambulance surgeon knows of the unnecessary 
waste of life due to simple ignorance of the fact that any accessible 
bleeding can be controlled by the simple expedient of making pres- 
sure on the bleeding vessel. Children and loved ones perish before 
the eyes of the helpless because of ignorance of this. 

To overcome the fear and awe inspired by a bleeding wound, a 
practical demonstration may be made with a dog or cat, and the girl 
who participates in the experiment will find that it gives her confi- 
dence which she will carry with her all her life. It is said that "a 
little knowledge is a dangerous thing," but this is a vicious doctrine. 
It should never be promulgated unless accompanied with the proviso, 
"but not so dangerous as none." The reason that people stand para- 
lyzed with inaction in the presence of an emergency is not so much 



igii] Education of Girls in Domestic Sociology 57 

because of some inherent mental process which causes inactivity 
under such circumstances as because they do not know what to do. 
That is the reason why they do nothing. 

Emergencies peculiar to fire are among the common causes of 
calamity. No girl can claim to be well educated unless she knows 
(1) how to put out a fire, (2) what to do when her own clothes are on 
fire, (3) how to deal with another person whose clothes are on fire, 
and (4) how to preserve herself in the presence of fire. 

Two experiences may be cited which have come within my know- 
ledge while this paper was in process of development. One day I saw 
a beautiful girl of sixteen on her way to school. Under her arm was a 
Latin text book. I wondered at the time if she were really studying 
what would be of help to her in life. Three days later I learned that 
she was dead. These are the circumstances: Before retiring at night 
she tried on in her bedroom a new skirt of mercerized fabric which 
she was to wear to a party the following day. The head of a match 
flew oflF and ignited it. She ran into the hall screaming for help. 
Her mother rushed out and saw at the head of the stairs a column of 
flame mounting so high as to completely obscure the face of the girl. 
A man finally reached the scene and threw a coat around her as 
she stood. No one had ever told the girl what to do in such an emer- 
gency. She could think of nothing to do because it had never been put 
into her mind. All that she knew about fires of this sort was that the 
victims had suffered a horrible death. She had read of such things 
and had heard them discussed. Her thoughts were of the horrible 
death that confronted her. She did not know that the worst thing to 
do was to go into the hall and stand at the head of the stairs. She 
did not know that the best thing to do was to throw herself flat on 
the floor and pull the bed clothes, rugs, or any other heavy fabrics, 
over everything but her head. Nor did the man who came to her 
rescue know that to keep the flames away from her head he must lay 
her prone. She died within a few hours; and the Latin class lost one 
of its best pupils. 

A short time later in the same neighborhood in a large educational 
institution, a class of girls was holding a sheet and pillow case dance. 
A girl, nineteen years of age, to replenish a pyrotechnic flame poured 
alcohol from a bottle upon a dish of burning alcohol. The explosion 
set fire to her costume. In an assemblage of fifty young women there 
was not one who had confidence that she knew what to do. What 
happened was that the girl's costume burned until she was beyond 



58 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

recovery. She lived a few hours. Two others were badly burned 
by trying to put out the flame. The costume that caught fire was a 
cotton sheet. It could have been pulled o2 in a few seconds. There 
was plenty of time to have lain the girl on the floor and covered her 
body up to her neck with sheets worn by the other girls, but it was 
not done. 

These two cases are cited as typical of common occurrences. Almost 
every large general hospital has its quota of cases of burns all the time. 
I take down the reports of two such institutions and find that 6 
per cent of their deaths among surgical patients are from this cause. 
Most cases occur among women. Every ambulance surgeon has much 
experience with this particular injury. Women continue to be burned 
to death because they do not know what to do. 

Conclusions. — The object of this course of training in the conduct 
of life, here set forth, is to prepare young women for complete living, 
to give them an insight into the things worth while, the essentials 
which make for the full life of joy and efiiciency — all with special 
reference to the home. There is no such thing as culture without 
vital application. The mind of the girl is occupied with airy dreams 
of parties, smart clothes, and young men, because the significance of 
these things has not been disclosed to her and because nothing more 
substantial has taken their places. Latin or literary criticism will not 
occupy the mind of the average girl because these studies lack the 
pragmatic quality of fitness. But a practical knowledge of the every- 
day things of life about the girl, the things which are worth while, 
can be made to occupy her mind because their applicability is every- 
where manifest. And the airy dreams can be turned into useful 
channels if their meaning and value are disclosed to her. 

It will be found that there are women who are not in sympathy with 
such a course, holding that household work is drudgery from which 
the modern woman must be emancipated. They argue that many 
functions, once a part of the home, have been taken out of it and still 
more are to follow. Some go so far as to strip the home of pretty 
much all its erstwhile activities. Whatever may be the merits of these 
contentions, three facts remain: — (i) No matter what the future may 
have in store, the present order demands that many things shall still 
be done in the home; (2) the homes of women who are busy advocat- 
ing communalization of the domestic functions are usually lacking 
in the evidences of efficient home administration (while telling other 
people how to live, their own hearthstones are unkept); and (3) 



19 1 1] Education of Girls in Domestic Sociology 59 

finally, of all the activities in which a woman may be engaged, and it 
must be granted that she should be occupied, she is best adapted to 
be employed in the maintenance of her home — this is the function 
for which by nature she is constituted, which is capable of giving her 
the largest measure of happiness in return, which is the field in which 
she can be of the greatest service to the community, aad which has 
possibilities for culture beyond that of any other employment. 

It may be said that these subjects are so simple that every girl 
should learn them at home, but they are so simple that even the 
home thinks the girl will absorb them out of the atmosphere. What- 
ever may be thought on the matter, the fact is that the girl does not 
learn them, chiefly for the reason that it is nobody's business to in- 
struct her specifically in them. 

Many a girl leaves college with no adequate idea of the importance 
of the home and its possibilities for happiness. Often her own home 
has not exemplified the best ideals. Too often she thinks of the home 
as a prosaic affair, a sort of necessary ennui, and she aspires not to 
be the maker of a home but to be something great — a social worker, 
intent upon other people's aSairs, a suffragist, a reformer, or a writer — 
fai-ing to realize that the most efi&cient social workers and reformers 
are they who have learned the ideals of the home, and that the only 
effective preparation for writing is not in learning how to write but in 
having experiences with things that are worth writing about. 

This course will be found not acceptable in conventional institu- 
tions because it takes "too much time." Yet these institutions are 
sending out into the world with a diploma, certifying to their attain- 
ments, young women who are lacking in qualifications in every one of 
the eleven major subjects herein presented. As though an analysis 
of the details of Paradise Lost were of more importance than the 
details of a home; as though a study of the horrible life of Henry VIII 
might be of m.ore use than a knowledge of the practical significance of 
matrimony; as though a classification of the Georgian poets were more 
important than the classification of food stuffs; as though ability to 
seem learned, by virtue of a smattering of trivial knowledge, were 
more important than the actual fact of being learned by virtue of the 
possession of knowledge which should make for efficiency and happi- 
ness. The study of the useful cannot be said to take too much time 
in any institution which is giving time to things of minor importance. 
It is Paradise Lost, Henry VIII, and the Georgian poets, that take 
too much time. 



6o The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

A cultured person is one who is familiar with the general principles 
of world knowledge, who loves the truth, whose mind is not beset 
with superstitions, who prefers and encourages what is beautiful and 
good, who differentiates the important from the trivial with a dispo- 
sition favorable to that which is important, who is so perfect in his 
ability to perform well at least one thing which is useful that he excels 
most men in this particular function, who habitually performs services 
which are useful to mankind, who finds pleasure in the performance of 
such services, who is kind and possessed of sympathy for others, what- 
ever their station, who adds to these initiative and self-reliance, and 
who when overcome by infirmities still is bereft of none of these quali- 
ties but that of action. Such is a cultured person, man or woman. 
This is quite diflerent from the culture which the schools have recog- 
nized. This is culture of activity and usefulness; not that of learning. 

The modern school system is directly descended from that educa- 
tion which sought to prepare its pupils for idleness by filling them 
with a sense of superiority to useful work. This was accomplished 
by occupying itself with such learning as could not be employed to 
grapple with the daily problems of the world about. Much that is of 
little use has been replaced by the study of things of greater service, 
but still there remains a disproportion between that of lesser value 
which is taught and that of greater value which is not taught. The 
process of evolution in the modern school has operated but tardily. 
Better results could have been secured by revolution. If some group 
of cultured people could have organized a modern school system de 
novo, with utter disregard for the learning of the past, as though there 
had never before been any schools, the result would have been admir- 
able. But the traditions are upon us like an incubus. It is a difficult 
task to shake them off. They hold us to the past. 

It is fortunate that we have a newer conception of culture. It is 
most fortunate that according to this conception, culture is only to be 
had in the pursuit of the useful. 



SOME PRACTICAL ASPECTS OF THE TEACHING OF 

DIETETICS.^ 

Hester Ridlon. 

Instructor in Household Economics, Simmons College. 

Sixteen institutions of college grade, distributed from east to west, 
from the State of Washington to that of Tennessee, replied fully to 
a questionaire as to the courses they are offering in dietetics. Such 
points were covered as the amount of time devoted to the course, 
its pre-requisites, its purpose and scope, the proportion of labora- 
tory work, the computations made, and the text and reference books 
found most useful. 

From the returns we would draw the following conclusions: Of 
all these the undeveloped course at the University of Washington 
gives the least, with 54 hours and a prerequisite of chemistry, physiology 
and cookery; while Simmons College stands next, with a higher pre- 
requisite only. The one which covers the most ground is The New 
York State College of Agriculture, as the course goes throughout 
the year, 36 weeks, 8 hours a week, or an aggregate of 288 hours, with 
a prerequisite of biology, botany, physics, two years' chemistry, 
physiology, nutrition and economics. The mean is that at the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin, as yet undeveloped. Teachers College, Columbia 
University, stands near the mean with an aggregate of go hours 
and prerequisites of biology, physiology, two years' chemistry, and two 
years' cooking, carrying parallel with it, if desired, courses in dietaries 
and nutrition, and leading to an advanced course in nutrition and 
dietetics. The chief criticism of all of the courses seems to be in the 
small amount of time given to the consideration of cost. 

To sum up, then, the courses are usually called Dietetics; they are 
given for one semester of 16 to 18 weeks' duration, and average 6 
hours, 2 hours of lectures and two 2-hour periods of laboratory work, 
weekly; some cookery, chemistry and physiology are prerequisites; 

' Extracts from a Thesis presented in April, 1910, to the Faculty of Philosophy, 
Columbia University, for the degree of Master of Arts. 

6x 



62 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

and the course is either parallel or prerequisite to therapeutic cookery 
and dietaries, and may include home nursing and diet in disease. 

Having thus reviewed the work of the schools the country over, our 
next attempt is to draft a course which shall be useful and practical 
as well as scientific. We would aim to make the course one leading 
to general knowledge, rather than for professional use, and making 
the subject vital with relation to accuracy, economy, and systematic 
management of food and the nutrition of the human mechanism by 
the diet. It seems that this is better accomplished in those schools 
where there are many and various prerequisites and in which the 
subject leads to further work and investigation, so that the subject 
matter of this course is focused and concrete. Evidently such courses 
as introductory and simple cookery, the economics of food production 
and utilization, biology, physics, chemistry (inorganic, organic, and 
food), hygiene, and physiology should be prerequisites; whereas such 
courses as institutional and home dietaries, physiology and nutrition, 
therapeutic dietaries and cookery should be subsequent courses. The 
last three of these, together with physiological chemistry, care and 
feeding of infants and children, bacteriology, and experimental cookery, 
might be parallel. The best assignment of time seems to be from 
6 to 7 hours, of which 4 are given to laboratory practice in the weigh- 
ing and preparation of the food materials; the rest of the time being 
given to lectures and discussions or quizzes on the subject matter. 

The scope as stated in the catalogue might read as follows: 

Dietetics. Lectures, conferences, and laboratory work. 4 points. 2 lectures, 
2 laboratory, i semester. Total, 96 hours. 

To be taken by all candidates for a B.S. degree. 

A study of the fundamental principles of human nutrition and food values under 
varying physiological, economic, and social conditions; historic outline of dietary 
investigations and modern dietary standards, with popular misconceptions as to 
food; the construction of practical menus for individual, family and large groups; 
special diets, such as infant feeding and therapeutic diets. Prerequisites: cookery, 
physics, chemistry (inorganic, organic, and food), biology (including some bacte- 
riology), physiology and hygiene, and applied economics. 

To explain more fully : The course should be a study of the relative 
composition of the human body, its waste and repair, and the chemis- 
try and physiology of digestion, absorption and metabolism of protein, 
fat, and carbohydrates, as governed by age, sex, occupation, season, 
climate, health, and inherited tendencies; the composition of various 
typical foods and their calorie or fuel value as explained by the physical 



19 1 1] The Teaching of Dietetics 63 

aspects of heat ; the proportion of nutrients and ash constituents ; the 
limitations governed by cost, and the relation of national combinations 
of foods and dishes; a brief outhne of the dietary investigations and 
standards involving the decision of the indi\ddual standard; the col- 
lection of menus; the means of apply-ing scientific principles in plan- 
ning and constructing practical menus for the individual, typical 
family, and large group, with regard to the proper and attractive com- 
bination of foods, involving some of the most typical misconceptions 
as to food, such as the value of doughnuts, fried foods, pork, cream, 
onions, potato, and the use of water; nutritive value and cost of food; 
finally such special dietaries as feeding of infants and children, menus 
for the sick and convalescent, and in extreme age. 

We shall find that the student, in order to save time and strength, 
will need in this work to have had an initiatory course in heavy prac- 
tical work in the preparation and service of foods. It would be well to 
carry at the same time a course in experimental cookery or large-quan- 
tity cookery or both, and it might well lead to courses in sick-room cook- 
ery and in the preparation of infants' and children's foods. Of the sci- 
ences, physics w^U be necessary to understand calorimetry, fuel values, 
and combustion; biology for the relation of the body to the food and to 
bacterial action; chemistry for the composition and reactions of the 
foods, and the relation and requirement in mineral or ash constituents; 
physiology, for a proper understanding of the body itself, its anatomy 
and metaboUsm; physiological chemistry would be eminently profit- 
able in order to comprehend well the cgmplete metabolism of the food 
elements, and the waste products, also the special diets as regulated 
by age, health, or disease. Of course the more the student could have 
of the theoretical medical sciences, the better. This side of the work 
naturally leads to deeper study of normal and abnormal, or thera- 
peutic diets, and those in different parts of the world. Various 
general courses in economics of a philanthropic, sociological or insti- 
tutional nature would be very useful to the student as well as interest- 
ing and broadening. If considered from the standpoint of pedagogy 
or the teaching of dietetics, a maximum of science would be advisable, 
and should be preceded by a course in psychology, apphed psychology, 
ethics, and the history of education, and some course in the methods 
of teaching. The last two, however, might easily be taken parallel. 
If for institution management, it should undoubtedly be preceded by 
courses in elementary and large-quantity cookery, with a heavy 
science prerequisite, and should have as parallels, therapeutic 



64 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

cookery, home nursing, and institution dietaries, that is, dietaries as 
applied to a large group. 

With these things in view, and realizing that the work is incomplete 
unless both theory in lectures and quizzes and practice in preparation 
in the laboratory are given, we may consider a list of 32 lessons, which 
may be used and adapted according to necessity. These have been 
arranged to cover 16 weeks of 6 hours a week, 2 hours for lectures and 
two 2-hour periods for laboratory work, or 64 lessons, the laboratory 
work being correlated to the lecture work, or vice versa. The course is 
best taken in the senior year, or perhaps the junior — not before. In- 
spection of lecture or laboratory note-books, or both, may well be left 
to the discretion of the instructor. 

Scheme or Lessons. 

1. Introductory; discussion of the dietary problem, books, description of Prof. 
Willard's method of computation. 

2, 3, and 4. Review of the physiology of digestion, including the anatomy, 
differentiation of foods, and action of digestive juices. 

5. End of the review with an open discussion and summary. 

6. Commence the study of the composition of foods, beginning with fruit, cereals, 
sugar, milk, eggs, cream, butter, etc. 

7. Instruction in the method of computing loo-calorie portions. 

8. 9, 10. Continue chemical composition of foods, with the loo-calorie compu- 
tation of recipes. 

11. Review of the composition of foods and general discussion. 

12, 13. Comparative nutritive value of foods most used: Cereals, vegetables, 
fruits, milk, eggs, meats, fish, etc.: and relative cost of each. 

14. Comparative nutritive value of the less common foods. 

15. Methods of measuring the energy requirement. Reports on the computa- 
tions of the students. N. B. This only if there is no laboratory work in connec- 
tion with the course. 

16. History of standards of food requirement, and points governing these. 

17. Review correlating chemistry and the nutritive value of foods and standard 
requirements. 

18. Ash constituents and requirements. 

19. Five or ten minute reports from each student of collected menus with criti- 
cism of each. Special attention to values from the economic standpoint. 

20. Quiz by presentation of a menu for revision. 

21. 22. Discussion of cheap dietaries and menus for improvement without rais- 
ing the cost. 

23. Changes in medium cost diet to high cost diet and discussion of values. 

24, 25. Diet for a family of normal adults and adolescents; changed to (i) for 
the aged, (2) for heavy labor. 

26. Discussion of noteworthy national diets and what they offer to Americans. 



igii] The Teaching of Dietetics 65 

27. Ten minute reports of changes necessary in the diet in given diseases. 

28, 29. Care and feeding of infants and young children. 

30. National dishes compared in value and cost with the nearest American 
equivalents. 

31. Summary and oral quiz. 

32. Open discussion on requested topics. 

Sequence of Laboratory Work. 

1. Measurement of ordinary uncooked foods by Willard's method. 

2. Measurement of ordinary cooked foods by Willard's method. 

3. The loo-calorie portion of ordinary uncooked foods. 

4. The loo-calorie portion of ordinary cooked foods. 

5. The loo-calorie portion of the less usual foods. 

6. Comparative study of the amounts for equal nutritive value in foods of the 
same class, loo-calorie basis. 

7. Sample diets (3 meals) under given requirements, noting the cost in each case. 

8. Sample diets (3 meals) according to given authorities, noting the cost as above. 

9. Three typical meals showing the ash constituents, noting the cost as above. 

10. Three meals under given requirements re-adapted to low and high cost, etc. 

1 1 . Preparation of three meals for diets in common diseases, the actual amounts 
being calculated. 

12. Preparation of infants' food and children's meals. 

13. Preparation of foreign dishes and American equivalents. 

N. B. — This gives 13 topics for the 32 periods, averaging one for each two and one- 
third lessons. 

With the foregoing lessons in mind, we may proceed to a detailed 
discussion of them and to the texts and reference material advisable. 
Referring to the various texts in use, Office of Experiment Stations 
Bulletin 28 of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, The Chemical 
Composition of American Food Materials, is an absolute necessity: 
Hutchinson's Foods and Dietetics is a close second, but it would seem 
better to give the bulk, of the data by lectures, making Hutchinsoa a 
semi-text, as it were, and requiring the students to own it. The follow- 
ing is the list of books most used by the several schools for reference 
on the subject: 

(i) Chittenden: Nutrition of Man; (2) Friedenwald and Riihner: Diet in 
Health and Disease; (3) Holt: Care and Feeding of Children; (4) Howells: 
Text-book of Physiology; (5) Lusk: Science of Nutrition; (6) Richards: Cost 
of Living; (7) Farmers' Bulletins of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

To this may be added at will any from the following long list, which 
are used as references in different places: 



66 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

(i) Abderhalden : Text-book of Physiological Chemistry; (2) American Text- 
book of Physiology; (3) Armsby: Principles of Animal Nutrition; (4) Arm- 
strong, E. F. : Glucose and the Glucosides; (5) Atwater: Chemistry of Foods and 
Nutrition, et. al.; (6) Bailey: Text-book of Sanitary and Applied Chemistry; (7) 
Baylies: The Nature of Enzyme Action; (8) Bevier: Selection and Preparation 
of Food; (9) Brown: The Baby; (10) Bunge, Gustave von: Textbook of Chemistry 
and Physiology; (11) Chapin: Theory and Practice of Infant Feeding; (12) Chit- 
tenden: Physiological Economy of Nutrition; (13) Dukes: School Diet; (14) 
Fletcher: A. B. — Z. of Our Own Nutrition; (15) Gautier: Diet and Dietetics; 
(16) Grey: Anatomy; (17) Halliburton: Essentials of Chemical Physiology (see 
Kirkes); (18) Hardy, W. B.: Colloids; (19) Horgan: How to Feed Children; 
(20) Hopb'ns, F. G. : The Development and Present Position of Physiological 
Chemistry; (21) Hough and Sigwick: Human Mechanism; (22) Kirkes: Hand- 
book of Physiology; (23) Leach: Food Inspection; (24) Leathes, J. B.: The Fats; 
(25) Leffman and Brown: Food Analysis; (26) Ling: The Polysaccharides; (27) 
Long, J. H.: Textbooks of Chemistry and Physiology; (28) Mann: Chemistry 
of Proteids; (29) Mitchell: Meat; (30) Norton: Food and Dietetics; (31) Osborne 
T. B.: The Vegetable Proteins; (32) Pattee: Practical Dietetics; (33) Plimmer, 
R. H. A.: The Chemical Constitution of Proteins; (34) Remsen: Inorganic and 
Organic Chemistries; (35) Schryver, S. B.: The General Character of the Proteins; 
(36) Sidgwick and Wilson: General Biology; (37) Spargo: Common Sense of the 
Milk Question; (38) Spatholitz: Anatomy; (39) Starling: Text-book of Physiology 
and Pathological Chemistry; (40) Thompson: Food and Feeding; (41) Winton: 
Microscopy of Foods; (42) Wiley: Food and Food Adulterants; (43) Yeo: Food 
and Health and Disease; (44) American Journal of Physiology; (45) Bibliography 
of Journal of Home Economics; (46) Journal of American Medical Association; 
(47) Lake Placid Reports. 

Most of the trouble in the development of the courses in the past 
has been due to the fact that so large a mass of data was taught with- 
out enough emphasis being put on the actual application. Besides 
this, there has often been too much time spent on unnecessary and 
unapplied calculations. It is wise to have the laboratory work as 
part of the course to emphasize the theory of the class room, and it 
is absolutely necessary to illustrate each bit of calculation of food, 
of dish, or of menu by actual weight measurement and preparation 
in the laboratory. 

The idea with the laboratory work is to carry the practice as nearly 
parallel with the lecture as is possible and feasible. The first effort 
should be to give the student a visual notion of the value cf foods, 
and an easy way of figuring on them; next, to make clear the use and 
calculations of the loo-calorie portion; this accomrlished, to take the 
usual portion served in meals and fix its calorie value. It should then 
be an easy transition to the preparation of all sorts of meals, without 
very much extra calculation or computation. The purpose with 



19 1 1] The Teaching of Dietetics 67 

regard to the meals for diseased conditions is to relate these meals to 
the normal dietary and not to infringe in the least on the courses in 
cookery for invalids and convalescents. It seems, however, about 
the only time at which the student may become acquainted with the 
appearance and preparation of infant's food and proprietary foods 
and the making and serving of children's meals, a business too much 
left to the discretion, or lack of discretion, of the servants. By the 
incorporation of the foreign meals and foods it is hoped to point out 
the value that may be derived by taking the experience of other 
peoples and generations, this being really the survival of those meals 
which are fittest. It is a scheme which might well have twice as 
many laboratory periods. 

If the instructor cares to use any graphic methods, the latest and 
most useful methods are those to be found in the Journal of the Ameri- 
can Medical Association for April 20, 1907 — an article by Dr. Fisher of 
Yale — and The Cornell Reading Course, Series II, Foods, Human 
Nutrition, No. 6, for November, 1909. 



BLACKBOARD WORK IN THE TEACHING OF DOMESTIC 

SCIENCE. 

Elizabeth Willard Saxton. 

Teacher of Domestic Science, Seventh and Eighth Grades, Washington, D. C. 

Have you a blackboard in the room in which you teach domestic 
science? Of what use is it to you? Few instructors reahze the value 
of drawing in the teaching of domestic science, and often the board is 
used merely for a list of ingredients, a few remarks in regard to the 
lessons or items concerning the note book, or sometimes not at all. 
The ingredients and rules should indeed be there, but is there not space 
for more, space where a picture could be drawn? A lesson on grains 
is made attractive by a sketch of a bunch of wheat. Have the children 
in your school ever seen wheat growing? 

One of the earhest lessons given in the first year of cooking is a study 
of the potato. This plant is easily represented on the board. A 
number of pictures of the entire potato plant can be found in various 
books on the subject of cookery. If it is desired to show the pro- 
portional parts of starch and water in the composition of a potato a 
cross section can be put on the board with Unes indicating these. 
The potato plant itself is easy to obtain, so the lesson can be given from 
that. The picture in the "Border of Vegetables" (Fig. i, D) was 
made from a small plant, brought into the class-room by one of the 
pupils. 

There is nothing that will make a schoolroom look more inviting 
than to have the blackboards decorated. Leave lo feet or more for 
routine work and use the rest for oictures of objects to be talked about 
in the course of lessons to be given during the year. 

Perhaps it would be well, in the cereal lesson, to have a picture of 
a bunch of wheat to show the difference between wheat and oats. 
If you have specimens, that is very good, but if you do not happen to 
have them, the next best thing to a real specimen is a drawing and 
this drawing should be done by the child. 

In a class where the ages of the pupils range from twelve to sixteen 
years, there are always one or two who are competent to put on the 

68 




Fig. I. Use of the Blackboard ix Teaching Domestic Science: A, Indian 
Corn and Diagram of Cuts of Veal. B, C, Diagrams of Cuts of Beef. D, 
Border of Vegetables. 



igii] Blackboard Work in Teaching Domestic Science 69 

drawings. This work of the pupil need not interfere with the lesson. 
If she finishes her class work before the period is over let her begin 
the drawing. She will find time to finish it in the few moments before 
or after her lessons of the next two or three weeks. 

It will not be long before this wheat wdll be made into flour. Other 
flours will be discussed, among them perhaps cornmeal. A picture 
of corn which may be appropriately drawn on the board is given in 
Fig. I, A. The pictures give interest to the lesson. In talking of 
these flours it may be convenient and profitable to show by means of 
a cross section of the wheat grain how different flours are obtained 
by the removal of the various layers of the grain. (See Fig. 2, B.) 

I have here attempted only to give suggestions for board work, not 
a model lesson. It would be difficult in a short paper of this kind to 
take up every lesson studied in the cooking class and illustrate it 
with a picture, but where the importance of the board drawing is 
felt, one will soon reaUze how hard it is to find in any one place pictures 
that will be of real help. That is the reason these prints are gathered 
together. 

Later on the study of meats will be taken up, and here is your chance 
to show the pupil the location of the different cuts. With only the 
outHne of the cow, sheep, or other animal given, let the pupil go to 
the board, and put in the hne to show where the piece is cut. In this 
work, though the teacher must help the child somewhat, the latter 
has a feehng of self-reliance while holding the chalk in her hand and 
actually putting in the line. In different parts of the coxmtry the cuts 
of meat vary, but the pictures given will illustrate how the animal 
looks before and after the series of meat lessons and after the course 
is completed, according to the method of cutting used in Washington. 
(See Fig. i, B and C.) Each child is given a hectograph diagram to 
paste in the back of her note book. The numbers and Hnes are put 
by them in their diagram just as they are on the board, and on the 
opposite page corresponding numbers ^vith a short description telling 
the name and use of the piece. 

Seasonings used for soups, sauces, and preserving all offer attractive 
board pictures, pictures which are decorative as well as useful. (See 
Fig. 2, C.) 

Some of you may live in cities and towns near the sea, where oysters 
are plentiful, but with others who live inland it is not always an easy 
matter to get an oyster in the shell to show the class. Why not draw 
one on the board? This gives you a chance to show the various parts 



70 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

and the child's interest is aroused at once when a fish is found with 
organs similar to those in the human body. 

In a school I know one of the prettiest lessons ever given had for 
its subject the onion. On the board were pictures of every kind of 
onion one would be likely to know, arranged not in stilted order, but 
very artistically. At the desks, the children, half standing, with 
hands raised were ready and anxious to go to the board to point out 
and name the different kinds of onions. Bermuda, yellow, spring, 
white and Spanish onions were all there, and all well known by the 
interested pupils. 

The child learns most readily perhaps by having the object itself 
in the hand and next by the picture, because if the eye is not at- 
tracted what is being said to the child often fails to make an impres- 
sion on the mind. Drawing certainly helps to make shadowy things 
real. 

A border of vegetables, one drawn each week by the girls in the 
class, will give an idea of the lessons given. This might also be carried 
out to show when the vegetables are in season or the part of the plant 
used. The border here illustrated shows the following series of lessons 
on vegetables, beginning at the right: Stuffed peppers, boiled cauU- 
flower, baked onions, escalloped salsify, stuffed potatoes and cream of 
spinach soup. (See Fig. i, D.) 

A board reserved for spelling is a convenience and a help, especially 
if the recipes are written in composition form by the children, each 
one having her own note book. The hard words in the lesson are 
spelled by the children and put on the board. A list of these may be 
kept, and when there is time after a short lesson a speUing test may 
be given. 

It is well to have a board reserved for an appropriate quotation. 
These may be found in the newer cook books and if desired and there 
is time, the quotation may be put at the top of the lesson. If it is 
used with the lesson it must apply to what is being cooked. One 
quotation will be given, not because it is nearly as good as a great 
many others, but because I ran across it after a long search to find 
something interesting on the subject, and because it can be used nicely 
with a lesson on brussels sprouts. 

That herb which o'er the whole terrestrial globe 
Doth flourish, and in great abundance yields, 
To low plebeian and the haughty king. 
In winter, cabbage, and green sprouts in spring. 




Fk;. 2. USIC Ol- THE Hl.ACKROARD I\ Tk ACHI.VG DoMKSTIC SciEXCE. A, SoME 

Common- Vegetables. B, Section of a Grain of Wheat. C, Thyme and 
Diagram of Cuts of Pork. D, A Quot.vtion Board with a Bunch of Oats 
above. 



CATERING FOR HIGH-SCHOOL STUDENTS.^ 
Mrs. Alice M. Hotchkin. 

Supervisor of High School Lunch Rooms, Rochester, N. Y. 

To serve a successful luncheon, whether in a school or factory, the 
lunch-room and its equipment must first receive careful consideration. 
Nowhere has this been done more thoroughly than in Rochester, 
N. Y., in its high schools and factories. 

The two high schools are practically alike, each having cost about 
$350,000, and each accommodating 1240 pupils. In designing these 
schools, as much stress was laid upon planning and equipping the 
lunch-rooms as upon any part of the building. They are situated in 
the basement, and are light, well ventilated rooms capable of seating 
1000. The Flemish oak furniture is so simple in design that it is 
easily kept clean by dusting every morning with a sanitary duster 
slightly dampened. 

The counter is in the center of the room, is 55 feet long, and 12 feet 
wide, and like a horse-shoe in shape with the open end towards the 
kitchen. The top of the coimter is i8 inches wide and 30 inches 
high, and it has two shelves underneath. Inside the counter are the 
steam and serving tables, milk, chocolate and water tanks, sinks and 
the dish washer. Over the milk tank bangs this sign: "Clean milk 
from tuberculin tested cows." It is through the influence and co- 
operation of our efl&cient health officer that we are enabled to serve 
this kind of milk. We display this sign as a suggestion to the students. 
Our kitchens are equipped with every modern convenience. Steam 
cookers are used as much as possible, for this method of cooking does 
not add to our expenses, since waste steam is utilized. Many labor- 
saving devices are used, including a potato-peeler run by electricity 
which peels a bushel of potatoes in five minutes, saving 8 pounds of 
potatoes to every bushel and using only 0.75 cent's worth of elec- 
tricity. 

' Read at the Lake Placid Conference on Household and Institution Manage- 
ment, June 29. 1910. 

71 



72 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The menus are written on blackboards, which hang in conspicuous 
places. Cashiers are conveniently stationed, so that students pur- 
chase their tickets on their way to the counter. The tickets used cost 
only al cents per looo and are burned after each meal. 

Although we servx about 1200 every day in the East High School 
lunch-room, good order always prevails, for which there are two 
reasons. First, they are municipal affairs not run for revenue, and 
ail realize that the best quality of food is furnished at cost. Second, 
the board of education and the principals of the schools consider the 
lunch-rooms equally important with any other branch of school work. 

Every effort is made to have the nourishing dishes so attractive 
that they will be chosen in preference to those with smaller food 
values. WTiipped cream is used wherever possible. Plain rice 
pudding or tapioca cream is unpopular, but if embelhshed with a 
small portion of whipped cream it at once becomes an attractive 
dessert. The same menu is never repeated within two weeks. 

The planning of menus is a problem. Dishes which are most 
popular in the East EQgh School are scorned in the West High School 
and \'ice versa. This same condition was later found in the various 
factory lunch-rooms of Rochester; the menus must be planned to suit 
the taste of the master mechanic and the common laborer, as well as 
for the different nationalities. 

The high school lunches proved so satisfactory as to attract the 
attention of manufacturers of the city, with the result that six factory 
lunchrooms are conducted on the same plan as the high school lunch- 
rooms. It is interesting to note that whenever a factory lunch-room 
has been opened, saloons lose their patrons, for the factory employees 
prefer hot, nourishing lunches to Hquor. In the factories the 15-cent 
limch is popular, but does not find many patrons in the schools, as 
that amount of money is more than most students wish to spend. 

To those contemplating lunch-room work, a few suggestions may 
be helpful. A floor space of 30 x 90 feet can be arranged to give a 
kitchen 22 x 12 feet, a store room 8x12 feet, a counter 20 x 11 and a 
seating capacity of 130. The manager should know every branch 
of the work herself, so that if necessary she can take the cook's place. 
The employees scon learn whether she is capable, for as a rule Ihey 
are sharp, shrewd people and quickly detect shortcomings in their 
employer. The work should be thoroughly systematized, so that 
each one knows her duties and how" much time is required for doing 
them. I have found it most satisfactory to have the women exchange 



1 9 1 1 ] Catering for High-School Students 73 

work, so that if one is absent, another can take her place. Do not 
economize on the cook's salar}', for only the best sen-ice should be 
employed. 

Insist upon your maids sitting at their work as much as possible. 
A light luncheon sensed to them in the middle of the forenoon is con- 
ducive to good temper, for often these women eat a light breakfast 
at home. 

Demand absolute truthfulness from the men of whom you purchase 
your goods. They soon learn that your orders must be delivered 
when promised. Make a careful list of all goods needed, so as not to 
ask for unnecessarj- deliveries. Do not market by telephone. Meat, 
fruit and vegetables should be purchased by the eye and not the 
voice. 

With the growing demand for trained women to take the manage- 
ment of these various lunch-rooms, the directors of the Mechanics' 
Institute of Rochester decided that a course should be established 
there for training women for lunch-room management. The first 
applicants were women of an inferior order, but the standard has been 
raised so that onlv educated women are now students in this course. 



REPORT ON THE LUNCH ROOM OF THE WILLIAM 
PENN HIGH SCHOOL.' 

Emma Smedley. 

In Charge. 

In September, 1909, the William Penn High School for girls was 
ODened in the commodious new building at Fifteenth and Wallace 
Streets, Philadelphia. From the attractive rooms provided, luncheon 
is served daily to about seventy members of the faculty and to as 
many of the eighteen hundred pupils as care to avail themselves of the 
opportunity. 

In providing such luncheons, we recognize that the growing child 
requires a Uberal supply of attractive, nutritious, easily digested food, 
which may be procured at a reasonable cost. 

In many schools the girls are taught to cook and serve food in the 
class-room, but the value of this training will be lessened if the same 
pupil is allowed to go to the lunch counter at recess and select anything 
she may choose from a plentiful supply of cakes, pastry, candies, etc. 
So long as the school management permits this character of luncheon 
to be served in boys' as well as girls' schools, they are neglecting the 
opportunity of establishing habits as regards the choosing of food in 
the vast army of young people who will in a few short years be the 
men and women of our cities and nation. 

The William Penn High School aims to train young women so that 
they will be equipped for the duties which Hfe sets before them, whether 
in the home or the business world. The present luncheon scheme has 
been undertaken with the hope that there may emanate from it an in- 
fluence that may become an important factor in the fulfilment of the 
noble purpose of the school. 

This luncheon is under the care of a group of four persons appointed 
by the board of education, consisting of the chairman of the board 
in charge of the school, one other member of the committee, the 

1 Read at the Lake Placid Conference on Household and Institution Manage- 
ment, June 29, 1910. 

74 



igii] Lunch Room of Williatn Penn High School 75 

principal and one teacher of the school. The duty of these persons is 
to appoint a superintendent of luncheons who shall act as purchasing 
agent, employ help, and have full charge of carrying out the general 
poUcy of the school with regard to the luncheon. A second committee 
appointed by the principal of the school is helpful to the superintendent 
through suggestions which it offers regarding the details specially con- 
nected with the welfare of the pupils. This committee consists of 
five members of the faculty, the chairman being the teacher who is 
a member of the committee appointed by the board. The chairman 
of this committee is the director of the commercial department of 
the school, and keeps in close touch with the methods of bookkeeping, 
approves all bills, and audits accounts. 

The person selected by the committee to act as superintendent of 
luncheons has had experience in institution management, and has 
been a teacher of Home Economics for several years. She is fully 
in sympathy with the policy of the school, and aims to provide a 
luncheon that would be a credit to any school of domestic science. 

We have been most fortimate in securing the services of ten helpers 
who are interested in the success of the enterprise. My assistant has 
had experience as housekeeper in her own home, and holds a certificate 
from the domestic science department of Drexei Institute. She is 
very capable and is glad to give her attention to every detail of the 
cooking, thus enabling me to carry out my ideals regarding the quality 
of the foods which are prepared. This trained cook has proved to be 
a great economy, as her knowledge of foods and her interest in the 
work insures uniform results in cooking, and prevents the waste of 
food by carefully utilizing all leftovers. The other helpers have had 
no special training for this character of work. They do not belong 
to the servant class, but have their own homes in the neighborhood 
and are glad to earn $5 or $6 a week by spending part of each day at 
the lunch-room. The hours for the employees are from nine until 
four o'clock, though a few come only during the business hours, ii 
to 2 o'clock. I am frequently asked where I get such women. The 
answer is that they come to me and I have a long waiting list. One 
man is needed to do the heavy work, care for floors, operate the 
dishwasher, etc. 

We are assisted in serving the pupils at the recess hour by twenty or 
more students, who are members of the cooking classes of the school, 
and volunteer for half the recess one day each week. For this service 
they are given two five-cent luncheon checks. 



76 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The period for luncheon from beginning to end is from 11:45 to 
12:25. The school is dismissed in two sections, at 11:45 and ten minutes 
later, thereby enabling us to utilize to the best advantage our limited 
table accommodations and facilities for serving, as many of the pupils 
of the first section have finished their lunch and are ready to leave the 
room by the time the others have been served at the counter. Each 
person returns her dishes to the counter as she passes out of the room. 
These dishes are all stacked by the students ready for washing, as I 
consider this duty an important part of their training. 

To give every girl first chance at the counter and the same length 
of time in class recitation, different sections of the school are dismissed 
on alternate weeks at the first bell and student helpers reverse in the 
same manner, one month coming the first, and the next month the 
last, fifteen minutes of recess period. 

The board of education provides the lunch-rooms, kitchen and 
pantry with equipment and fuel. The cooking has been made very 
laborious this year because of the limited number of utensils which 
have been provided. With only two gas stoves and these designed 
for family use, it is very difficult to serve a varied menu for faculty 
and pupils, especially when the top of one stove is required the greater 
part of two days to cook the 20 gallons of vegetable soup which are 
required for one day. It is impossible to make as much oyster or 
cream of tomato soups as the pupils want because the utensils used for 
the soups are required each day for making the nine gallons of cocoa. 
In many similar ways the work is constantly complicated by the lack 
of adequate utensils and appliances. During the last few weeks 
there has been installed a steam equipment consisting of stock pots, 
vegetable cooker, cocoa urns, steam tables and dish-washer which will 
be in readiness for next year's work. With the steam cookers we hope 
to prepare the large quantities needed more easily, and the steam 
dish-washer will considerably reduce the daily labor. 

Aluminum checks in three sizes, bearing the name of the school 
on one side and the numbers one, three or five on the other, are pro- 
vided as a part of the equipment. These checks are purchased by 
the students before school and at recess, and used in place of money 
at the counters, thus simplifying the service, as each waitress always 
receives the correct change and puts it into a cash box which remains 
locked until opened by the cashier after lunch. 

The faculty dining-room presents an attractive appearance when 
the tables are spread with linen, glass, and silver, in readiness for the 



igii] Lunch Room of William Penn High-School 77 

luncheon. An a la carte luncheon similar to that prepared for the 
pupils is available for the teachers, and in addition a table d'hote 
luncheon is provided at a cost of fifteen cents, consisting of meat, 
vegetable, rolls, butter, tea, coffee, cocoa or milk. 

Owing to the unfinished condition of the building in September, 
1909, it was not possible to open the lunch-room for the use of the 
students until November i. Lunches were, however, served to the 
faculty early in October. 

Even with the prevailing high prices of food, we are able to meet 
our running expenses for food, ser\ice and supervision. 

All food is prepared at the school except bread, rolls and ice cream. 
Soup, which is very popular, is served every day, the same kind not 
appearing on the menu two days in succession. 

For five cents we serve one-fourth of a quart of soup and one roll 
or two soda crackers. The following varieties of soup have been 
served during the winter: Vegetable, tomato, cream of tomato, tomato 
bouillon, cream of com, corn chowder, cream of potato, pea soup, 
bean soup, cream of beans, macaroni soup and oyster soup. Other 
five cent foods are macaroni and cheese, boiled rice with tomato sauce, 
scalloped rice, scalloped tomatoes, baked beans, beef stew, casserole of 
rice and meat, and scalloped fish. 

Sandwiches are also sold for five cents each, hot roast beef and ham 
being most popular. Cold tongue is also used for sandwiches, as well 
as sardines, cheese, olives and cheese, oHves, pimento and oUve, egg, 
peanut and lettuce. Making sandwiches constitutes a small part 
of the daily preparations, since the majority of pupils bring this part 
of their luncheon from home. One-fifth of a quart of cocoa or of milk, 
either hot or cold, is sold for three cents. A large number of buttered 
rolls at two cents each are sold with cocoa or milk, making a combina- 
tion for five cents, while some pupils prefer six graham or soda crackers 
instead of the roll for the same price. Milk and buttermilk are also 
sold in pint bottles. 

Stewed fruit and one kind of home-made dessert are served each 
day, such as apple tapioca, peach tapioca, tapioca custard, cup- 
custards, banana custard, floating island, rice pudding, chocolate 
pudding, date pudding, snow pudding with custard, stewed fruits, 
figs, prunes, cherries, peaches, pineapple and baked apples. Ginger- 
bread and chocolate or jelly layer cake are made occasionally. Two 
dried figs or eight dates are wrapped in paraffin paper by the helpers 
and sold for two cents a package. One, three-and five-cent cakes of 



78 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

sweet chocolate and chocolate nut bars for five cents are also popular. 
Bananas, apples, oranges, grapefruit, grapes, and peaches are among 
the fresh fruits served. 

From a personal investigation of the plant in which the ice cream is 
made we feel satisfied that it is clean and of good quality. Natural 
fruit flavors and vanilla beans are used in the preparation. It is cut 
in blocks, eight to each quart, and wrapped in paper. Each block 
is sold for five cents. 

A t3T3ical menu for one day is as follows: 

Oyster soup and two crackers, 5 cents; macaroni and cheese, 5 cents; ham 
sandunch, 5 cents; olive sandwich, 5 cents; stewed peaches, 3 cents; grapefruit 
marmalade and crackers, 3 cents; chocolate pudding, 3 cents; cocoa or milk, 3 cents; 
cocoa or milk and buttered roll, 5 cents; ice cream, 5 cents ; crackers (two or three), 
I cent; dates or figs, 2 cents; sweet chocolate, i, 3, or 5 cents; banana, 2 cents; 
orange, 3 cents; apple, 2 cents. 

This menu is varied from day to day. The same dish does not ap- 
pear more than once a week, but children constantly ask for something 
that was on the menu the previous day. 

To quote from the report of the committee on high schools: 

It is gratifying to be present at the school during the luncheon period and to 
observe the eagerness with which the pupils select from the variety spread before 
them. Many spend only a few pennies to supplement the cold lunch which they 
bring from home, while a few make two trips from counter to table before they are 
satisfied. 

The committee has had words of appreciation from pupils and teachers which 
give evidence that children as well as older persons are glad to avail themselves 
of the opportunity of eating the right kind of food when they have the chance. 
And not to be overlooked is the fact that the school is educating these young women 
to appreciate the right kind of diet and to cultivate a taste for more wholesome 
food than many have had the opportunity of enjoying in Iheir homes. This 
indirect benefit from the high school luncheon room is perhaps as important as 
the more obvious good of furnishing the girls with a substantial, digestible and 
suitable luncheon at a reasonable price, on every school day. 



SCHOOL LUNCHEONS.' 

Alice C. Boughton. 

Philadelphia League of Home and School Associations. 

For the past three years the Starr Centre Association of Philadelphia 
has been supplying penny luncheons at the ten o'clock recess to the 
children in several of the elementary public schools in the crowded 
district of the city. These luncheons consist of a variety of foods, 
including crackers, fresh fruit in season, stewed fruit, milk, and one 
hot dish, such as cocoa or rice pudding or soup, each day. The 
actual cost of each article is one cent, and the children receive in return 
one cent's worth of food, for the Association pays for all the equipment 
and for the supervision, preparation and serving of the luncheon.^ 

Last January another agency. The Home and School League, 
entered the field. It served at the noon recess a three-cent meal, 
calculated, as nearly as possible to be one-third of the child's ration. 
The school selected, an Orthodox Russian Jewish public school, was 
an unsatisfactory place in which to try a new plan, as it was difficult 
to convince the children and their parents that all the food served 
was kosher. 

This year The Home and School League will serve three different 
types of luncheon in three different schools; in one it will serve a 
permy luncheon at the ten o'clock recess; in another a three-cent 
meal at noon, with a table containing penny luncheons for any children 
who have not three cents to spend; and at the third school a penny 
luncheon at ten o'clock, and a three-cent meal at noon. 

At stated intervals a physical examination will be made of the 
children of each school and a record kept of each child. Under the 
direction of the committee making the investigation, a home and 
school visitor, who has had a normal course in domestic science as 

' Read at the Lake Placid Conference on Household and Institution Manage- 
ment, June 29, 1910. 

' For a more detailed account of these luncheons see a previous note (J. H. E., 
2, (1910), No. 2, pp. 178-180. 

79 



8o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

well as training in social service, will follow the children into their 
homes in order to find out existing conditions and to put the families 
in touch with remedial agencies. By keeping a record of the children 
buying the luncheons a comparison is possible, not only between the 
children who take the luncheons and those who do not at any one 
school, but also between the value of different types of luncheons. 

In the districts chosen there is a good field for investigation because 
of the industrial conditions which cause the same poverty and igno- 
rance and the same neglect of the children by parents of many nation- 
alities who are engaged with various kinds of labor. 

Of course, this plan is only tentative and may not prove practical, 
but from the active cooperation of principals and teachers and through 
the earnest efforts of those engaged in the investigation much interest- 
ing and profitable information should be gained as to needs, and as 
to methods of reaching the needs, of the hundreds of undernourished 
children in our city schools. 



DIET IN RELATION TO GROWTH.^ 
Gwendolyn Stewart, 

Domestic Science School, The International Correspondence Schools, Scranton, Pa. 

School diet includes, in a broad sense, the diet of students between 
three and twenty-five years of age. These years of growth — twenty- 
two years — may be divided into four physiological periods : First, early 
childhood — ^from infancy to the completion of the period of rapid 
growth — which may be characterized as the restless age; second, me- 
divun or middle childhood — a short period after the rapid period of 
growth — which may be characterized as the slowing-up period; third, 
later childhood — a uniform period of growth extending from the end 
of the slowing-up period to the beginning of adolescence — called the 
pre-adolescent age; and fourth, adolescence — which extends from ap- 
proaching maturity to the completion of growth. 

The restless or nervous age appHes very often to children between 
the ages of three and eight who seem restless and to need the dietetic 
treatment for nervous temperaments. Dr. O'Shea, in an article in 
the Popular Science Monthly for 1897, cites cases of extremely nervous 
children being cured by proper diet. Two such children of five and 
seven years were found to be suffering from a deficiency of protein 
constituents of the blood; the diet was regulated accordingly and the 
children were soon restored to normal condition. It is believed that 
there is a close connection between mental development and the 
character and quantity of the food. 

During this period there is an intense development of the sense of 
taste and a desire for variety in food. Edwin A. Kirkpatrick, in his 
Fundamentals of Child Study, says: 

Variety in food develops the instinct of eating in a positive way so that by the 
time a child is three or four years old sensations of taste occupy a prominent place 
in his consciousness. This continues for several years and there is probably no 
time in life when the gustatory pleasures and pains are more intense than at five 
or six years of age. To gratify the desire for agreeable food and to avoid disagree- 
able tastes is at this time one of the chief motives in life. 

^ An abridgement of a paper read at the Lake Placid Conference on Household 
and Institution Management, June 29, igio. 

81 



82 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

If it is possible to influence temperament through diet, it is at this 
early period, for it is in this physiological period, more than in any 
other, that the seeds of character which grow and bear fruit through- 
out life are planted. A professor of sociology once said that if he were 
to choose a dean of women he would examine, not the record of her 
degrees and subsequent work, but the record of her life before the 
age of seven. 

The second physiological period, which in a general way in- 
cludes the years of childhood from eight to ten, has been characterized 
as the slo wing-up period because this age is marked by a general 
slowing-up of growth when metabolism is lessened and all activities 
of the body are retarded. Growth in childhood is rhythmic — a 
movement of alternate troughs and crests and this is a pronounced 
trough. The years just before this are those of very vigorous develop- 
ment and the body seems to need a respite in which to repair the 
unusual expenditure of tissue — it is as it were a sort of spore stage, and 
if the necessity for rest and care is recognized, the following years 
will be all the more full of vigor. 

Unless this pause upon the part of nature is supplemented with 
careful attention to general health, diet, and careful attention to 
avoiding overtaxing the child, chorea, St. Vitus' dance or other dis- 
eases may develop during this period. As regards diet in patho- 
logical conditions at this period, however, it is important that, as 
with disease in general, the advice of a competent physician should 
be obtained. 

This slowing-up period is also marked by grave tendencies to infec- 
tion. With this weakened resistance to infectious diseases great care 
should be taken with the food supply. "For this reason, as well as 
others, it is safest not to give meat to a child before the age of ten at 
least [or until the end of this spore stage]. Before that the child can get 
all the necessary nitrogenous food from the daily allowance of four 
glasses of milk, one egg and the usual quantity of bread and cereal," 
to quote from Miss Hunt in School Meals for Children. Milk, in 
this period, may be supplemented with cocoa. 

Later childhood, the third physiological period, from the end of 
the last period to the beginning of the adolescent age, is designated as 
the pre-adclescent age. This period is characterized by a more 
uniform growth during which there is usually no marked nutritional 
disturbance. It is the time of regular, happy life for normal children 
in preparation for the years of more intense activity. Economic con- 



19 1 1] Diet in Relation to Growth 83 

ditions seem to aflfect growth at this time more than later on. Dr. 
Key, who has made extensive observations upon the growth of children, 
says: 

The economic circumstances in which the children h've exercise considerable 
influence on their physical development. The children of the poorer classes fall 
behind their companions of the same age from the homes of the well-to-do both in 
height and weight. The period of feeble development just before puberty is longer 
for the poorer children. 

The weakened resistance of the body to infectious diseases, so 
characteristic of the preceding period, continues relatively weak. 
The use of meat at this age is very general, and great care should be 
taken in providing a pure supply. 

The age of adolescence covers a long period, including the life of 
college as well as high school students. The dietetian can by careful, 
watchful diet during the college period strengthen the influences of 
the body for a sane, normal, healthy life. The diet of this period 
requires as careful attention as that usually given to the earlier years 
of adolescence. The protein food should be reduced in quantity in 
proportion to the lessened demands of growth, other satisfying food 
being given in its place. I myself would like to make a plea for 
carbohydrates in the form of sugar, having observed among college 
boys that this craving is the most healthful a boy may have. This 
recalls a student boarding table where an attempt was made to meet 
the "increased price of living" by serving at noon two dishes only — 
one a meat dish, and the other a vegetable or cereal, with no dessert, 
or as more appropriately called by the English a "sweet." The boys 
at the table invariably made their own dessert, which they craved, 
by covering their sHces of bread with sugar. I sincerely contend that 
a better way to meet the higher prices is indeed to serve only two 
dishes, but to make one a substitute for meat, and the other a simple 
appetizing sweet dessert. 

Dr. Winfield S. Hall, in Nutrition and Dietetics, alludes to the use 
of sugar as an important part of the diet during adolescence. 

The craving for sweets is a natural one. They should be eaten immediately 
following a meal, for then they seldom disturb digestion. Sweets are such a con- 
densed form of energy that the craving for them at this time seems almost instinc- 
tive. 

The evening meal should be as free as possible from all irritating 
substances and the attractiveness of service should be emphasized. 



84 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Dr. Hall recommends to young men, in his book From Youth Into 
Manhood that a light supper be taken at night with the heaviest 
meal in the middle of the day. 

A college dining-room should maintain in a large measure the sim- 
plicity, wholesomeness, and attractiveness of the diet of childhood. 
The life of a student is one of peculiar strain and confinement and 
the diet should be regulated accordingly. It should, however, be 
served in such a way as to develop as far as possible the amenities of life. 
The rough and ready freedom of college life has its delights, but for 
many it is the best opportunity for social culture, and the etiquette 
of dining may well be included among the requirements of pol'te life. 
A college student, living in the resident hall, once remarked that she 
would have to go to a finishing school on leaving college in order to 
get into good habits of living again. 

There is much to be said in favor of schools and colleges which 
require a change of costume for the evening meal. Perhaps there is 
hardly a habit more conducive to the spirit of repose and healthful 
culture during the evening than a wholesome preparation of this kind 
for this constant daily social gathering. 

During a recent visit to Holloway College, in England, I was im- 
pressed by the daily ceremony of the dinner hour. Every one is 
required to dress for dinner, very simply, but a change is imperative. 
Each student is the hostess or guest of another student, the hostess 
being responsible for the seating and entertainment of her fellow 
student whom she has selected as her guest. Just before the dinner 
hour all gather in the library and forming a procession, with the presi- 
dent and instructors at the head, march to the dining room. 

On another occasion, when a guest at dinner at one of the Oxford 
colleges, I noted that the faculty and students withdrew at the close 
of dinner to the social or common room, as it is there called. Cof- 
fee and wafers were served and a social half hour was spent around 
the fire. 

[An incieasing amount of attention is being given to the general subject of the 
feeding of children. For an additional discussion and summary of data the reader 
is referred to a recent bulletin from the Nutrition Investigations of the U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, 1 and also to Miss Hunt's bulletin^ referred to above. 
A recent English treatise^ also contains an excellent discussion. — Ed.] 

' U. S. Dept. Agr., OfSce of Experiment Stations, Bui. 223, pp. 87-98. 

^ U. S. Bur. Education, Bui. 1909, No. 3. 

' A System of Diet and Dietetics, edited by G. A. Sutherland, London. 



IQIl] 



Diet in Relation to Growth 



8S 



Suggested Dietaries. 

Suggested menus for children of different ages which it is believed 
are in general accord with the views expressed in the paper are given 
in the following pages: 

Children's Dietaries. 
Dietary for Children of 25 years. Assumed Body Weight 30 lbs. (14 kg.). 

Menus. 

7 a.m. — Orange juice, 3 oz.; oatmeal, 2 tablespoonfuls (dry); cream, 2 table- 
spoonfuls; milk, I cup; toast, one-half slice; butter, one-half tablespoonful. 

10 a.m. — Milk, i cup. 

2 p.m. — Milk, I cup; baked potato (half a potato); one baked apple; one 
poached egg. 

6 p.m. — Milk, i cup; toast one-half slice; butter, one-half tablespoonful. 



Nutritive Value and Cost of the Above Dietary. 



PROTEIN. I FUEL VALUE. 



COST. 



Milk.... 
Oranges . 
Oatmeal 
Cream . . 
Toast . . 
Butter.. 
Potato.. 
Apple . . . 
Egg 

Totals 



Oz. 
34-4 
30 
0.44 

1. GO 
0.68 
0.46 

2. 10 

I .2Q 



Cms. 
32 18 

2. ID 
0.70 
1.79 
0.14 
1.32 
0.25 
4.81 



Calories. 
67s 
30 
SO 
S5 
50 
100 
SO 
SO 
SO 



Dollars. 

O. 20 

0.05 

0.0015 

0.04 

0.0027 

0.014 

o.oi 

0.05 

0.04 



43 29 



mo 



0.408 



Dietary for Children of 4 years. Assimaed Body Weight 40 lbs. (18 kg.). 



Menus. 

Breakfast. — Oatmeal, 2 tablespoonfuls (dry); cream, 2 tablespoonfuls; milk, 
I glass; toast, 2 slices; butter, 2 teaspoonfuls. 

Dinner. — Omelet, i egg; spinach, i cup uncooked; milk, i glass; bread and 
butter, 2 slices; orange charlotte, small serving. 

Supper. — Zwieback, i slice; cream of wheat, or similar wheat food, one-twelfth 
cup (dry); cream, 2 teaspoonfuls; milk, 3 teaspoonfuls; baked apple pulp, i small 
apple; milk, i glass. 

10.30 p.m. — Milk, one-half glass. 



86 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



Nutritive Value and Cost of the Above Dietary. 



WEIGHT. 



FUEL VALUE 



Milk 

Oatmeal 

Cream of wheat, or similar wheat food 

Buttered toast 

Spinach 

Egg 



Apples 

Orange charlotte . 

Bread 

Cream 

Zwieback 

Butter 



Oi. 
34-4 
0.44 
0.48 
I-3I 
I -75 
1-54 
3-74 
0.34 
1.36 
4.80 
0.37 



Cms. 

5218 

2. 10 

3-49 
1.66 
4 63 
0.31 
0.7s 
3-59 
340 
0.74 
0.13 



Calories, 

67s 

50 

5° 

67 

12 

50 

SO 

10 
100 
227 

33 
los 



Dollars. 

015 

0.0062 

0.0025 

0.005 

0.050 

0.04 

0.05 

0.0123 

0.0055 

o.oSoo 

0.0042 

o . 0240 



Totals . 



54 50 



1429 



0.4297 



Dietary for Children of 6 years. Assumed Body Weight 44 lbs. (20 kg.). 



Menus. , 

Breakfast. — One orange; oatmeal, i oz.; one egg; milk one and one-half cup; 
zwieback, 2 slices. 

Dinner. — Chicken soup, i cup; one baked potato; asparagus, 5 oz.; bread, i 
slice; butter, one-half oz.; junket, three-fourths cup; milk, thiee-fourths cup. 

Supper. — Zwieback, 4 slices; butter, one-half oz.; milk, three-fourths cup. 

Nutritive Value and Cost of the A hove Dietary. 



MATERIAL. 



WEIGHT. 


PROTEIN. 


PUEL VAIUE. 


COST. 


Oi. 


Cms. 


Calories. 


Dollars. 


423 


2.64 


99 


0.014 


0.83 


4.64 


200 


0.025 


6.8 


0.05 


10 


0.05 


2.68 


9.06 


100 


0.04 


34-4 


32.17 


675 


0.108 


I.O 


0.26 


200 


0.025 


50 


I . I 


20 


0.06 


1 .64 


033 


S3 


0.05 


8.00 


8.42 


SO 


0.123 


1.36 


3 59 


lOO 


0.005 


1.00 


2.36 


56 


0.0056 


0.5 




50 


0.003 




64.62 


1703 


0.508 



Potato.... 
Zwieback . 
Orange . . . 

Egg 

Milk 

Butter... . 
Asparagus 

Apple 

Soup 

Bread 

Oatmeal . 
Sugar . . . 

Totals. . 



DAILY LIFE IN ITALY. 

Ellen A. Huntington. 
Director School of Domestic Science, Agricultural College of Utah. 

The first dinner in an Italian pension is a revelation. The Italians 
eat the macaroni, which is served in long, unbroken strings with a 
delicious grated cheese, by wrapping the strings around their forks 
assisted by a large spoon held in the left hand. It seems a most 
expeditious way to eat the macaroni to say the least. And one Ameri- 
can judged that so long as he was within the shadow of Rome he 
might do as the Romans did — but what disastrous results followed 
I hesitate to tell. If any one is lacking in imagination let him try 
it. The macaroni is followed by some unusual fried dishes, after 
which comes the roast, then a vegetable, next the inevitable lettuce, 
and finally ice cream. This is the general order of the Italian dinner 
except that in many places chicken accompanies the salad and a 
sweet dessert may replace the ice cream. For dinner as well as 
luncheon there is usually some hard cheese and bread at the end. 

The ice cream of Italy is most delicious, as those who have enjoyed 
the "cassata" of Rome will testify. Nowhere in Italy, and it is 
not known elsewhere in Europe, is the cassata as delicious as in Rome. 
It is served in the form of a quarter of a melon; the outside is a frozen 
cream and the inside is a mixture of whipped cream, nuts, fruits and 
orange peel. Truly it is a dish "fit for the gods." 

The "continental breakfast" is always a disappointment, for the 
meagre breakfast seems but an aggravation. It consists of coflfee 
or chocolate, rolls and fresh butter. Can one ever forget the hard 
rolls of Italy? No need of Fletcherism there ! The rolls are large, 
like miniature loaves of bread, and it is impossible to eat one in less 
than half an hour. After once trying the coffee an American usually 
prefers the chocolate, for the Italian roasts the berry until it is some- 
what burned, and besides, one would judge, he possesses neither the 
French or the German coffee pots which we prize so highly. 

To many people who recall Italy the picture which comes to mind 
first is that of vineyard upon vineyard, growing on the hillsides. 

87 



88 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

And here are made all the wines, from the chianti so commonly used 
to the choicest varieties. The drinking water of Italy is said to be 
of the best now, but a few years ago many people suffered with a 
fever in Rome and other Italian cities, traceable to the water, 

A drive through the streets of Naples gives one a very clear insight 
into the general mode of life of the Italian. The doors of the houses 
are always open in the summer time and in passing, the beds, several 
in a row, may be seen from the street. These are sometimes covered 
with a neat white covering, while again they are but a bundle of rags. 
The women sit on the door step and the children play in the dirty 
"front yards." Usually a wire basket holding ^bout a dozen very 
white eggs hangs at the side of the door. There may be one or two 
goats kept in the yard or there may a dozen or more driven off at a 
distance in the morning and brought home at night. Goat's milk 
is far more commonly used there than cow's milk. If it is the latter 
which is used the cow is driven from door to door and the boy milks 
into the long, narrow-necked flask as easily as our farmers milk 
into an open pail. But methods of adulteration of milk are known 
in this seemingly unprogressive country; for the boy who drives the 
cow has been known to carry a rubber bag of water under his arm 
and coat and the bag has a long rubber tube leading from it down 
his sleeve to his hand. As the clever boy milks he presses the bag 
with his arm and a fine stream of water unites with the milk. 

The Italians produce several vegetables unknown to us. One 
of them served in many different forms in July is the "kukutzi," 
which before cooking looks like a long cucumber. They also use 
many fruits, fresh figs and nuts. 

The macaroni which they make is in my opinion far superior to 
the macaroni on our American markets. But to see the drying of 
the strings in the market where dirt can so easily blow over it makes 
one feel content with our product and realize how sanitation lags 
in Italy. A general atmosphere of uncleanliness prevails; the streets 
are dirty; the houses which are built high and on hills are not ar- 
ranged to admit of much sunlight; the furniture is usually upholstered 
and harbors fleas in the summer time; and the people seem to bear 
the earmarks of general uncleanliness. 

We are sure that the people have clean clothes, for are not the 
women to be seen washing them in all the clear streams and rivers? 
It is certainly more picturesque to see the women with tucked-up 
skirts washing clothes on stones in the streams than bending over a 



igu] Daily Life in Italy 89 

wash-board in a steaming tub, though we cannot help but wonder at 
the continuance of the custom. In conversation a short time ago a 
lady told of an experience she had had in Italy. She had become 
much interested in their method of washing and by signs asked per- 
mission of two women to try it. After one attempt with their method 
she pantomimed to them again that each should take a garment 
and see who could wash hers clean first. The Italians used the stones 
but the American soaped the garment thoroughly, rubbed it all 
over between her hands and then rinsed it. Great was the surprise 
of her competitors to find that the garment was clean so long before 
theirs was finished. But did they adopt the method? No, she left 
them scrubbing the garments on the stone just as when she started. 
In retrospect, such a visit makes us congratulate ourselves that 
the necessity for sanitation and clean and wholesome food is being 
appreciated more and more, and to a certain extent put into practice, 
in our country. 



ON THE DIETARY IN USE IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC 

ISLANDS. 

John I. Large. 

Government Resident Agent and Dispenser, Cook Islands and New Zealand. 

First in importance in these tropical islands is the supply of vege- 
tables and fruit. Those common in these latitudes are the kumara 
(sweet potato), taro {Arvm Esculentum) , ui (yam) of many varieties, 
wild and cultivated, plantains and bananas of various kinds used as 
vegetables, papaw apple, kuru (bread fruit), tomatoes, pumpkins 
and squashes of several kinds. A few European vegetables grow in 
some of the islands, such as cabbage and lettuce. Other kinds required 
are imported from New Zealand and America to a limited extent. 

The fruits consumed are of the usual tropical and sub-tropical 
varieties, including oranges, lemons, limes, shaddock, bananas, pine- 
apples, papaw, rose apple, custard apple, avocado pear, guava, man- 
goes, granadilla, melons, and grapes (these last being inferior). The 
cocoanut is much used, particularly by the natives, both raw and 
cooked; in the latter case mostly in combination with various fruits 
and berries in the making of native puddings or the fruits of temper- 
ate climes, canned and preserved. Jams are imported from Cali- 
fornia and New Zealand to a considerable extent. 

Fish comes next in importance as an article of diet. The most 
common are the maroro (flying fish), caught with a scoop net by torch 
light at night, the mangaa (carraconta) , the aai, a large fish like a groper, 
and caught with a hook, mullet, and various other kinds known by 
native names. All kinds, including turtle, are more plentiful and 
easily caught in the lagoon islands, and, of particularly fine flavor, 
the ava (as big as the aai) and the kiokio, a silvery-scaled fish about 
3 feet long, are peculiar to the latter islands. Canned salmon from 
America, sardines, etc., are also extensively used. The fish sauce 
used by the natives exclusively, and to a considerable extent by 
foreigners all over the South Seas, is composed simply of grated cocoa- 
nut and sea water, with a few Chili peppers added. Flavored with 
this sauce even raw fish is quite palatable, 

90 



iQii] Diet in the South Pacific Islands 91 

In most of the islands the fresh meats mostly eaten are pork and 
poultry, but on the more important islands like Yahiti and Rarotonga 
refrigerating works have been started and butchers' meat of all kinds 
is kept in the freezing chamber and sold at retail. Canned and pre- 
served meats from New Zealand are greatly used everywhere; also 
quantities of cheese, butter and preserved milk from the same country. 

The natives universally prefer their national mode of cooking by 
steam generated with heated stones in their earth ovens (umu) and 
many of the foreigners adopt the same mode, because all vegetables 
are much better when cooked with steam, than when boiled. Bread, 
meat, and other kinds of food are of course cooked in the usual way. 
"Cubiu bread" (biscuit) is much used to save cooking. 

People in the tropics are usually afoot soon after daybreak, in order 
to get as much work as possible done in the coolest part of the day. 
About 6 a.m. a light breakfast is usually partaken of, consisting 
chiefly of the fruits in season. The papaw apple, like the banana, is 
always in season, and when sprinkled with lemon cr lime juice is very 
cool and appetizing; it also makes a good vegetable when cooked. 
Other breakfast foods are porridge (mush), cereals of various kinds, 
fish, bread and butter, etc., with tea or coflfee cr simply water. Cocoa- 
nut water is frequently used at all times as a beverage. At 11 a.m. 
comes the main breakfast (tiffin), which is of a more substantial 
nature, though the menu is about the same. Then follows a siesta 
of a couple of hours or more, after which all work again till evening, 
with dinner at 6 p.m. or later. At the two latter meals claret diluted 
with plain or cocoanut water is a common beverage. These hcurs are 
generally followed at the French islands, although in British and 
American communities on these seas the stereotyped meal times of 
breakfast at 7 or 8 a.m., dinner at noon or i p.m., and tea at 5 or 
6 are much in vogue. In any case a light diet is considered the proper 
thing. The less flesh eaten in the tropics the better for the health 
of the individual. Most of us also bar alcohol. 



THE STAFF OF LIFE. 

G. W. COWGILL 

Subsistence Department, United States War Department. 

The average person in England is said to consume about six bushels 
of wheat in a year, while in the United States the average is estimated 
at four and a half bushels of wheat or 196 pounds of flour per year. 
Flour is made from potatoes, buckwheat, bananas, etc., but that made 
from wheat is used to a much greater extent than the others and is 
the one referred to in this article. As there are so many different 
kinds of wheat, and each kind is further classified into four different 
grades, it is a difficult problem to know just what kind of flour one 
is buying, without subjecting it to a thorough test. The way to 
determine the best flour for the purpose desired and how to use it 
properly is the object of this article. 

The United States Department of Agriculture gives the following 
as a standard for good flour. ^ 

Flour is the fine, sound product made by bolting wheat meal and contains not 
more than thirteen and one-half (132) per cent of moisture, not less than one and 
twenty-five hundredths (1.25) per cent of nitrogen, not more than one (i) per cent 
of ash, and not more than fifty one-hundredths (0.50) per cent of fiber. 

Good flour should be sweet to the sense of taste and smell, having 
a feeling of sharpness to the grain, be free from must or other odors 
or tastes, and have a creamy-white shade or color. It should be 
strong, yielding not less than 7,^lj percent of moist gluten, and must 
absorb not less than 50 per cent of its weight of water to make a 
dough that will just begin to stick to the fingers when lightly handled; 
straight, made from good, sound wheat, high ground, well dressed, 
and free from must, containing from 90 to 95 per cent of the whole 
product of the wheat in flour (that is after the feed is taken out); 
and must be capable of yielding a well-risen loaf of good color, texture, 
odor and taste. It takes about 4^ bushels of wheat, or 270 pounds, 

'United States Department Agriculture, OflSce Secretary, Circ. 13 (1904), p. 8. 
92 



1 9 1 1 ] The Staff of Life 93 

to make a barrel of flour of 196 pounds, the other 74 pounds being 
the bran, germ, etc., and known as "feed." 

Wheat grown in different sections of the country varies greatly in 
the percentage of the yield of gluten. For instance, wheat grown in 
California is weak in gluten, and a much better bread can be made 
from it if mixed with Kansas or a Northern wheat, in about the 
proportion of two-thirds California to one-third Kansas or Northern 
wheat. 

1. Tests for color, smell, taste atid feel. The color of flour can best 
be determined by placing a small quantity upon a sheet of glass or a 
thin board, about 4x8 inches square, and smoothing it out with a 
flour spatula, pressing the spatula down to one edge of the board. 
Separate the flour on both sides and on the thick end with one edge 
of the spatula, leaving a strip about three-fourths of an inch wide on 
the board. On turning the edge of the board farthest away 
slightly down, the loose flour can easily be pushed from the board. 
In this manner eight or ten different samples can be placed on the 
same board by sUding the pressed samples side by side as they 
are added, always trimming the edges so they will fit snugly together, 
and taking care to give the same pressure to each sample. After 
pressing them hghtly again with the spatula, taking two or three at 
a time, and trimming the edges, the samples may be examined for 
color. A creamy white shade is the best. A dead white, gray or 
blue indicates overbleaching, inferior wheat of low grade, and a poor 
quality of gluten. The gray or blue should be specially avoided. If 
the board is sUpped under water, held there for a few seconds, and 
then placed on a table for a few minutes, approximately the color of 
the resulting bread will be revealed. 

The taste should be sweet and nutty without a suspicion of acidity 
or must. There should be no disagreeable taste or smell whatso- 
ever. 

A strong flour will feel sharp and gritty to the fingers, while a weak 
flour will feel soft. 

2. Microscopic examination. This is to detect sprouted wheat, 
but is certain to show any adulteration by other cereals on account 
of the characteristic shape and size of the different starch granules. 
Any undue proportion of bran or any foreign substance can also be 
detected in this examination. 

3. Moisture determination. Moisture is determined by weighing 
about two grams of flour into a small porcelain moisture cup, drying at 



94 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

212° F. for five hours in a water oven or other oven where the tem- 
perature can be controlled, then cooline; m a desiccator, and weighing. 
The loss in weight represents the moisture driven off, from which the 
percentage can be calculated. See the record card on page 97. 

4. Absorption. To determine the amount of water the flour will 
absorb, weigh 34 grams into a coffee cup and run into it from a burette 
about 18 cc. water at room temperature. Mix this thoroughly, with 
a stiff table-knife, into a dough and feel lightly with the dry fingers. 
If the dough does not hold to the fingers, add water, about | cc, at a 
time, and mix thoroughly until it just comes away without leaving 
any dough on the fingers. Read the burette and multiply the numbet 
of cubic'centimeters of water used by 10. Spring wheat or hard winter 
wheat flour will average about 198 cc. of water to 340 grams of flour, 
while soft winter wheat flour will average only about 188 cc. of water. 
The percentage of absorption can thus be calculated. Fill the cup 
with water and let it stand for about one hour, when it can be used 
for the gluten test. 

The percentage cf moisture in flour varies with the kind of wheat, 
the locality, the rainfall and soil in which grown, etc. ; as a rule new 
wheat will not absorb as much water as old wheat, and the same is 
true of newly ground flour. Strong wheats take up the most water 
and retain it during baking, hence yield the most loaves to the barrel. 
If flour is stored in a dry warm room it dries out very quickly and 
consequently will absorb more water. If stored in a damp room the 
reverse is true, as it takes on moisture. Flour should be stored in a 
dry, cool, and well-lighted and well-ventilated room, never in a 
cellar or basement or with other articles such as kerosene, coffee, etc., 
as the odor from them is readily absorbed. 

5. Moist gluten. In determining this, use the dough left in the 
cup, by placing it in a piece of linen cloth and tying it up closely. 
Wash under a tap, using gentle kneading, until all starch is removed 
as determined by the water running perfectly clear. If no tap is 
available wash in a basin, changing the water frequently until it is 
perfectly clear. It is better to do the washing over a screen of bolt- 
ing cloth or of very fine wire gauze, so as to catch any small particles 
of gluten which may pass through the clcth and which may be re- 
covered by gently rubbing the ball of gluten over the screen. Remove 
the gluten from the cloth and dry by squeezing it first in one hand and • 
then in the other, drying the hands with a towel, until the gluten 
begins to stick to the hand. Weigh the gluten and calculate the per- 
centage of moist gluten. 



191 1 ] The Staff of Life 95 

The gluten to be of good quality must be susceptible of being pulled 
out into threads or into a thin sheet, be creamy yellow in color, tough 
and elastic, and of homogeneous texture. A dark, gray, or red 
gluten, or one spongy in texture, is not of good quality. It if is desired 
to determine dry gluten, the moist gluten may be placed in a drying 
oven on a piece of paper capable of resisting heat, or in a glass or 
porcelain vessel previously weighed, dried to constant weight at 212° 
F., cooled and weighed, the percentage being calculated from the 
weight of flour originally taken. Wet gluten of good quality when 
dried will lose about two-thirds of its weight. 

6. The expansion test. This is another test for gluten, made by 
weighing out 340 grams of flour and putting about two-thirds of it into 
the kneader with 12 grams of granulated sugar and 5 grams of salt. 
Mix 10 grams of a good compressed yeast with it in a cup, add at 
about 85° about one-fourth of the water required as determined by 
the absorption test, then pour this together with all the water into 
the kneader, and beat for ten minutes. Pour in the rest of the flour 
and knead for ten minutes. If the absorption test is correct the 
dough will leave the kneader without sticking and feel soft in the 
hands. Place the dough in a glass jar which has a graduate on it 
(a battery cell is good), press it down level on the top, then place it 
in the expansion box or other apparatus where the temperature can 
be maintained at between 85° and 90°. Note the height to which the 
dough will rise by placing a small square on the glass door of the 
expansion box, just in front of the jar. This reading should be made 
at the end of the first hour and every half hour thereafter until the 
dough has reached a height of about 4^ inches, when it should be read 
every five minutes. The height to which the dough rises, together 
with the time taken, determines the quality of the gluten. 

It is the quaUty, and not necessarily the quantity of gluten, that 
produces the largest expansion. Flour containing a very good quality 
of gluten will rise higher in less time than one containing a large per- 
centage of gluten of poor quality. A strong flour may rise more 
slowly than a weaker one but will reach a greater ma.ximum height 
and will remain at this height longer before breaking down. Flour 
may rise to a good height in a comparatively short time, but unless 
it has the strength to stand, or goes to pieces when touched, it is not 
a safe flour for breadmaking. If too little water is used in the dough, 
it will be too stiff and will not rise so fast, whereas with too much water 
it will rise too fast, so it is important to get the absorption right. 



96 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

7. Baking test. Prepare the dough as for the expansion test, but 
instead of putting it in a glass jar mold it into two equal loaves and 
place in a weighed greased pan, then in the expansion box and let it 
rise to a gauge on the pan. This requires about one hour and a half. 
See the record card for data. 

If bread is baked too quickly, or in a very hot oven, perhaps at 
500°, by the time it is thoroughly baked on the outside the center 
of the loaf will be spongy. If left in the oven long enough to bake 
thoroughly all the way through it will bake to a crisp on the surface. 
If baked at a lower temperature, about 360°, it may be thoroughly 
baked in the center and at the same time be in good condition on the 
surface of the loaf, or in other words it will be uniformly baked all the 
way through. Biscuits, not being so thick, may be baked in a very 
hot oven, about 500°, as they will bake all the way through before 
the crust has time to become damaged by the intense heat. Fifteen 
to twenty minutes is all the time required, depending upon the thick- 
ness of the dough and the heat of the oven. 

8. Texture. The crumb of bread should be full of small, even pores. 
Large irregular pores are not desirable, but what causes them has not 
been satisfactorily explained. One good authority states that "these 
occur in overkneaded or overraised dough," but my experiments do 
not bear this out. I took two samples of the same flour, used the same 
ingredients, and treated them alike with the exception of the knead- 
ing, one being kneaded twenty minutes and the other one hour. 
There was a slight difference in texture, but the one kneaded one hour 
had a better flavor and made a much whiter loaf. Kneading or 
beating dough is an artificial but harmless process of bleaching. 
My conclusion is that the more dough is kneaded intelligently the 
better; the trouble hes in the way kneading is done and not in the 
time. One cause of large irregular holes is insufficient kneading. 

In the home where there is no mechanical kneader available, a 
very good way to mix dough is to put part of the flour in a crock 
with all the other ingredients, except the lard, using enough flour to 
make a batter that can be easily stirred with a big spoon. Stir vigor- 
ously for from twelve to fifteen minutes, then stir in more flour, a little 
at a time. Finish kneading with the hands, sinking all the fingers 
into the dough, occasionally squeezing the dough to get the flour 
worked well into it, and taking care to sprinkle only a Httle flour at 
a time and not to fold any lumps of flour into the dough. When the 
dough just sticks to the hands but can be pulled away easily it has 



1 9 1 1 ] The Staff of Life 97 

enough flour in it and is ready to be placed in pans when the kneading 
is finished. When lard is used it may be added after about ten 
minutes' kneading. 

A record card showing data obtained in a recent test of a flour is 
given below to illustrate the calculations involved. 

RECORD CARD. 

Flotir No. §0. Date June 10, igio. 

Color 10 Granulation 10 

Odor 10 Microscope 10 

Moisture. 

Grams 

Weight of cup and flour 20 . 7413 

Weight of cup 20.0405 



Weight of flour 7008 

Weight of cup and flour (dry) 20 . 67 

Loss 0713 

Per cent of moisture 10 . i 

Gf-UTEN. 

Gluten (moist) 

Grams 17 

Per cent 50 

Quality excellent. 

195 cc. water to 340 grams flour; put into kneader at 10 :00 am. Into expansion 
box at 10:30 a.m. 

Inches 

At II :30 I hour 2 At i 2^ hours 4I 

12 I'J hour 25 1:15 2f hour 5I 

1 2 :30 2 hour 3! 

Put into oven 12:04 P- m. Out 12:54 p.m. Baked 50 minutes at 360° F. 

Grams 

Weight of pan and dough 748 

Weight of pan igS 



Weight of dough 550 

Weight of pan and dough 748 

Weight of pan and bread 698 



Baked out 50 

Weight of bread 500 

Loaf. 

Color 10 Texture 9 

Taste 10 Volume 95 cu. in. 

Odor, hot 10 Loaves to barrel 295 



98 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

To find the number of loaves of bread to the barrel we first complete 
the weight of the dough from the ingredients used. 

Ingredients Used Per Loaf. 

340 grams flour 

19s cc. water 

12 grams sugar 

10 grams yeast 

S grams salt 

562 grams, weight of dough in kneader 

550 grams, weight of dough when taken out 

12 grams weight of dough left in kneader 

From the record card we see that 50 grams of moisture, or one- 
eleventh, actually baked out of the 550 grams of dough put in the 
pan. This gives approximately one gram of moisture in the 12 grams 
of dough left in the kneader, or a total of 51 grams which would have 
baked out from the entire quantity of dough. 

562 grams, weight of dough put in kneader 
£1 grams, baked out 

511 grams weight of loaf if all the dough had been used 
The pound loaf weighs 454.5 grams, and a barrel of flour should make 262 such 
loaves. 

454.5 : 511 = 262 :x 
* = 295 loaves to the barrel 

In making these tests the importance of absolute accuracy to insure 
uniform results should be emphasized. 

As the different brands of yeast throughout the country vary so 
much in strength and composition, and as salt, like cold, retards fer- 
mentation — depending upon the amount used — it is a difficult matter 
to say just how much yeast should be used in baking, but the amount 
required depends mostly upon the time consumed in the baking. 
Should quick results be desired, make a straight dough, using more 
yeast as in the formula given above. The amount of yeast given in 
the following recipe will give good results with a sponge or straight 
dough where it is set and allowed to rise from eight to ten hours, or 
over night. One half the amount of yeast, if equal in quality to 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast, could be used with good results, but 
would require more time. 



1 9 1 1 ] The Staff of Life 99 

Suggested Recipe for Bread Making. 

Approximate 
avoirdupois 
Grams. equivalent. 

Flour 1818 4 lbs. 

Sugar 60 2 oz. 

Salt 25 I oz. 

Yeast 14 5 oz. 

Water (see absorption test) 1060 35 oz. 

If sweet milk be substituted for about one-half the amount of water 
it will greatly improve the bread, or still better use all milk, in which 
case about one-third of the salt may be omitted. If lard is used, it 
should not be added until after mixing the dough ten minutes. 

It is extremely unsatisfactory to pick up a cook book and read at 
the bottom of a recipe something like this, "bake in a quick oven," 
the time requiredto bake at a given temperature not being stated, when 
this is one of the most important details in a recipe. I can take almost 
any quantity of the proper ingredients, treat them as I do common 
bread, bake properly and get a good wholesome bread, but if I take 
the best recipe in the world and do not follow it correctly, or do not 
bake properly, I find it to be impossible to turn out a good loaf. I 
have known flour made by one miller at one time out of one lot of 
wheat to be sent to different bakers and to have one baker report 
that the flour was so poor he could not use it, while others had fine 
results and asked for more flour of the same kind. Too often is it 
the case that the fault lies with the baker's not understanding the 
flour, and not with the flour itself. 

I feel that I can not emphasize strongly enough the importance of 
the art of baking. By referring to the record card it will be seen that 
our bread is baked 50 minutes at a temperature of 360°?. This, 
of course, is in a small oven with only one or two leaves at a time. 
In large ovens where the temperature is not so easy to regulate and 
where many loaves are put in a pan at the same time it would require 
a Httle longer, depending upon the quantity and thickness of the 
dough which the heat has to penetrate. I hope to live to see the day 
when the oven in every kitchen in America will be equipped with a 
thermometer and a heat regulator. 

If our enthusiastic twentieth century women want to do something 
noble, something really worth while, to better themselves and human- 
ity at large, I would like to suggest that they direct their thoughts 
along this line of work. 1 DEPA RTlklEls T 

JbOLbLhOLD SCIENCE 



THE LEAVENING AGENT IN SALT-RISING BREAD. 
Winona Woodward. 

Student Assistant in Home Economics, Bacteriological Laboratory, University of 

Missouri. 

The question of salt-rising bread fermentation has been studied 
very little from the laboratory standpoint. In so far as the cause of 
its rising has been questioned, the explanation has been given that 
wild yeast falls into the bread from the air while it is being made or 
that there is such yeast in some of the ingredients used; that is, in 
the corn meal or in the milk of which the "batter" is made. 

Recently Mr. H. A. Kohman, working at the University of Kansas, 
solated two organisms from corn meal with which bread can be made 
to rise. So far as known these have not been identified. 

Work along this same line done in the bacteriological laboratory 
at the University of Missouri this last year, without knowledge of 
what was being done at the Kansas university, resulted in the isolation 
of a third organism capable of making bread rise. 

Salt-rising bread is usually made by scalding a cup of fresh milk 
and pouring this over a quarter of a cup of corn meal, two teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, and one teasponful of salt. This is allowed to stand for 
several hours or over night in a warm place, when it should be light. 
To this batter warm water is added, one cupful for each loaf of bread 
desired, and flour to make a drop batter. This is allowed to stand in 
a warm place until light, then flour is added to make a stiff sponge and 
made into loaves. The loaves are allowed to rise until double their 
initial volume, then baked. Quite commonly the milk is not scalded 
but just warmed, and the sugar is added when making into a drop 
batter. The important thing is to keep the temperature right. 

In taking up the work on salt-rising bread, tests were made to find 
which ingredient furnished the leavening power. The milk and corn 
meal used in starting the bread were used in sterile and non-sterile 
condition and kept at body temperature over night, but only the 
samples in which non-sterile corn meal was used were light and it was 
therefore concluded that the corn meal furnishes the leavening agent. 

lOO 



igii] Leavening Agent in Salt-Rising Bread loi 

Two organisms were isolated from the corn meal, but only one of these 
in pure culture would leaven the bread. This organism is a small 
bacillus and a rapid gas producer. It forms spores which are rather 
resistant to heat as they are not destroyed by pouring hot milk over 
the com meal. The best growth is made at the temperature 7,S° C. 

This organism differs from those described by ^Mr. Kohman. One 
described by him is a short rod, which does not form spores and which 
does not liquefy gelatin. The other is a long rod, which forms spores 
and liquefies gelatin. The organism isolated at University of Missouri 
is a very short rod, which forms spores and does not liquefy gelatine. 

Bread made with a pure culture of this organism has an odor dif- 
ferent that of yeast bread, but not the disagreeable odor so often 
accompanying salt-rising bread making. This disagreeable odor, 
which some think is a necessary adjunct of salt-rising bread, is appar- 
ently present only when nonsterile milk is used; and generally when 
the bread is allowed to stand a long time in unfavorable conditions, 
so that putrefaction changes set in, due very likely to the action of 
micro-organisms present in the milk or acquired during the bread 
mixing process. As yet the organism isolated has not been identified 
with known bacteria, nor has a name been proposed for it. 

From the data reported it is apparent that the fermentation occur- 
ring in making salt-rising bread may be due to the presence of one or 
more micro-organisms accidentally present in the corn meal used in 
making the batter used in starting the bread or introduced in some 
similar way. The organisms isolated at the University of Kansas and 
at the University of Missouri were not yeasts (Saccharomyces) but 
belonged to another group of micro-organisms. It is more than likely 
that other gas-forming organisms will be found which cause the fer- 
mentation in salt-rising bread making under home conditions, and it 
is not unlikely that in many cases two or more such organisms might 
be present at the same time. Additional study of the matter should 
be undertaken and it would be interesting to compare the flavor and 
quality of the bread when different micro-organisms are present. 

As more comes to be known of the conditions necessary to the growth 
of the organisms causing the bread to rise, we can be more sure of 
success in making it. 

A practical deduction from the work reported is that sterilizing the 
milk before mixing the batter is desirable since more uniform results 
may then be expected and a product secured which does not have the 
unpleasant odor often associated with salt-rising bread. 



EDITORIALS. 

Was it the longitude of St. Louis that caused the feeling of stability 

and permanence, of strength and readiness all through the third annual 

_, c^ T • convention? Or was it the new conviction that 

The St. Louis __ „ ... , • ,f , • 

-, ^. Home li^conomics has found itself and is no longer 

JVleetm&r. . 

on the edge of things and so looked upon with 

a sort of distrust? 

The practical Middle West has always been hospitable to new 
measures that promised more comfort and freedom, it has originated 
plans and adapted ideas. The environment was therefore favorable, 
but beyond that influence the members showed in many ways that 
the principles for which the American Home Economics Association 
stands are accepted as a working platform and that from now on the 
campaign will be vigorously prosecuted. 

Chief among the principles brought out in the meetings was the 
acquisition of knowledge concerning the articles of daily use, textiles 
as well as foods, which shall enable purchasers to secure reasonable 
values for their money. The necessary corollary will be an effort for 
the cultivation of taste which will make the most of a small income, and 
for the development of methods in daily management which shall 
promote the health and efficiency of the members of the family while 
leaving time for the intellectual needs and pleasures. 

In short, the tone of the meeting showed that the authors and 
listeners alike believed in themselves and in their mission. 

The commendation and the help given by members of the other 
societies was very gratifying and it is hoped that this cooperation 
will be more and more helpful as time goes on. 

With this wider recognition comes upon the Association an added 
responsibility to "make good." 

Your president feels that the future is secure in your hands and that 
the work will go on and spread very rapidly from this time forward, 

— Ellen H. Richards. 



191 1] Editorials 103 

So many of the colleges of agriculture and mechanic arts offer 
courses in Home Economics that the attempt which is being made to 
affiliate a number of the agricultural societies 
Affiliation of in order that a uniform date and place may be 

American selected for annual meetings is of interest. The 

Agricultural need for such affiliation has been recognized for 

Societies. some time and the matter was brought to a head 

by the gathering of the many experts in various 
branches of agriculture at Washington, D. C, the middle of Novem- 
ber last. The Association of Agricultural Colleges and E.xperiment 
Stations, the Association of Farmers' Institute Workers, and five 
other agricultural societies, as well as the National Association of 
State Universities, were in session within the period between Novem- 
ber 10-18, and many questions of grea* interest to students of science 
and pedagogics were discussed. 

In order formally to bring the attention of the various interested 
societies to the matter a meeting was held of delegates from twelve 
such societies to consider a plan of affiliation to be submitted as a 
basis for action. The plan took the form of a constitution which will 
be submitted to the different societies at their next meetings. The 
proposed affiliation does not disturb the autonomy of the various 
societies in any way, but in providing for a central organization it 
prepares the way for two important measures, namely, a meeting 
biennally of the various societies at the same time and place so far 
as this is practicable, and the publication of a scientific journal to 
meet the common needs of the affiliating societies. Such a journal 
would naturally serve as a medium for discussion, for reports in ab- 
stract of the meetings of the societies, and for notices, reviews, and 
contributions of general interest in the whole field of agriculture and 
related science. Each affiliating society would doubtless continue 
to publish full reports of its meetings and other literature much as 
at present. 

If the plan for this new journal is carried out, it will undoubtedly 
contain much material of interest to students of Home Ecoaomics. 
As an evidence of this, it may be mentioned that at the recent Wash- 
ington meetings many papers were presented of which this was true, 
including among others those presented at the Association of Far- 
mers' Institute Workers by members of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. 



104 T^he Journal of Home Economics [February 

The April number of the Journal will be a Housewives' Number, 
with most of its contents of especial interest to the woman in the home. 
It will contain among others the following arti- 
Future Numbers cles: The Use of Labor Saving Devices in the 
of the Journal. Home, by J. Lebowitz; Household Service as a 
Labor Problem, by J. M. Rubinow; the Social 
Significance of the Home Economics Movement, by Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards; and a number of interesting articles on the care and feeding 
of children, together with suggestive programs for the club and home. 

Of late we have heard much about increased efficiency in business, 
which is to be brought about by a close study of methods and an intro- 
duction of such as shall save the present waste of time and energy of 
the worker. The bricklayer must lay more bricks in a day and with 
less fatigue than he lays his present quota; improved ways of using 
his muscles are to enable the piler of pig iron to double his results and 
his pay; the railroads, the mines, the machine shops are all urged to 
increase their output by improved methods. It would seem that 
these studies are to be made in all departments of practical life, and 
the household industries will not escape the application of this meas- 
urng line that tests efficiency. A beginning we shall try to make in 
the coming number to show how these principles may be applied to 
the doing of the daily housework. 

The April number will also contain condensed reports from the now 
rapidly increasing number of state and city organizations of Home 
Economics and a full account of the important conference on exten- 
sion work which was a part of the St. Louis meeting. The develop- 
ment of work outside the schools is destined to assume increasing 
prominence. 

The editors wish to make this number of the Journal very 
helpful to the woman who is chiefly interested in the problems 
that arise in the daily Ufe of the home and they will welcome articles 
or suggestions of any kind. Present readers of the Journal should 
use this opportunity to bring it to the attention of a wider circle. 

A special feature of the June number will be the discussion of courses 
of study, several interesting papers given at the St. Louis Conference 
being the basis — this will furnish a large amount of suggestive material 
for the use of teachers in planning for next year. On this line also the 
editors will welcome the frankest criticism of present methods and 
suggestions for improvement. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

This school was held January 16-27 at the woman's building. The courses 
given were as follows: 

The House: General Work, 8:00 a.m., on the house. Miss Bevier; 
School for house planning, Mr. Weaver; applied design in the home, Mr. Kel- 
Housekeep- ley; color in the home. Miss Gibbs; fine arts in the home, Profes- 
ers, Univer- sor Lake; plants for the home, Mr. Dorner; landscape gardening, 
sity of Professor Wyman; good architecture. Professor Ricker. Class 

Illinois. Work, 1:00-3 :00 p.m., on house planning, Mr. Weaver; applied de- 

sign in the home, Mr. Kelley; household management, Miss Van 
Meter; furniture and furnishings. Miss Bevier. 

Foods: General Work, 8:00-10:00 a.m., the vegetable garden, Professor Lloyd; 
cuts of meat, Professor Hall. Laboratory work three times in a week in 2 hour pe- 
riods, covering the selection and preparation of foods, including bread, meat, eggs, 
milk, cheese, vegetables, etc.. Miss Pincomb, Miss Rinaker. Demonstration 
lessons, 2 hour periods, Mrs. Barlow, Mr. Hepburn. Class Work, pure food. Miss 
Van Meter; dietaries, 3 lectures, Miss Usher; food for invalids, Mrs. Barlow; jelly 
making, Dr. Goldthwaite. 

Clothing: General Work, sewing classes 3 times a week, 2 hour periods, Miss 
Dickinson, Miss Meadows; two demonstrations, 2 hours each on use of paper pat- 
terns and fitting a shirt waist and the hanging of a skirt. Miss Gibbs. Class Work, 
textiles, 2 lectures. Miss Dickinson. 

Health: General Work, 8:00-10:00 a.m., public health, 2 lectures. Dr. MacNeal; 
insects undesirable in the home. Dr. Folsom; gymnasium classes, 3 times a week, 
9:00-10:00 a.m.. Miss Moulton. Class Work, public health, 2 lectures. Miss Kerr; 
home nursing, 2 lectures. Miss Balding. 

A special evening meeting for the students of the school and their friends, was 
held January 23, which was addressed by Miss Abby L. Marlatt of the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin. 

The course in domestic science was established in the fall of 1909 under Miss 
Laura Comstock as Assistant Professor. There are two courses offered, one a four 
year which gives the B.S. degree; the other a two-year course 
University of which gives a certificate only. The students entering the four- 
Maine, Col- year course meet the college entrance requirement. We have 
lege of three in this course and three in the shorter course. Extension 

Agriculture, work is done in two ways — through a correspondence course in 
cookery where Williams and Fisher's Elements and Theory and 
Practice of Cookery is the text book used. Questions are sent out and these are 
answered by those taking the work; answers are corrected and sent back to writer. 
Other extension work is done by speaking before women's clubs, granges, etc., 
throughout the state. There is but one member now on the teaching staff, but 
next year it is hoped that an assistant may be procured. 

105 



io6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The Missouri Home-Makers Conference was organized three years ago under 

" the auspices of the Department of Home Economics of the University of Missouri. 

This January the fourth annual meeting was held in Columbia 

Missouri from the loth to the 13th in connection with the Farmers' Week 

Home- program. 

Makers Among the subjects presented were the following : What the women 

Conference, of the state can do toward the prevention of infant mortality, 
Mrs. W. C. Greene; the problem of dressing the infant, Mrs. 
Ivy Horner Selvidge; some recent advances in infant feeding, Miss Louise 
Stanley; a breadmaking demonstration; the curing of ham, Mrs. W. C. Hutche- 
son; some problems of butter making in the home, Miss Anna Kinney; why 
butter making in the home is not more successful, Professor C. H. Eckles; 
the small farm home, Mrs. Wilder; some of the inconveniences of the farm 
home, Mrs. W. T. Flournoy; planning of a house, Mrs. T. C. Wilson; the bacte- 
riology of cleaning, a demonstration; farm management for women. Miss Hattie 
Paxton; household management, Mrs. F. B. Mumford; home care of sick, Miss 
Dora Batson; management of children, Mrs. J. Ed. Hall; adulteration of textiles, 
Miss Charley Tidd; what the women are doing in Michigan and what Michigan is 
doing for her women. Miss Jennie Buell;what Missouri is doing for her women, Mrs. 
W. McNabb Miller; what Missouri should do for her women. Dean Mumford; 
reports from local home-makers' clubs already organized; plans for further organi- 
zation. Miss Ilena Bailey; meat cutting demonstration. Professor P. F. Trowbridge; 
some of the problems of the rural school, Mrs. Marie T. Harvey; relation of home, 
to rural school, Mrs. Cora Chapin; Home Economics in the rural school, Mr. R. H. 
Emberson; and the problem of getting Home Economics into schools in small towns, 
Mrs. C. G. Truett. A portable equipment for Domestic Science in rural schools 
was on exhibition. 

In addition to the presentation and discussion of these papers, the following 
short course was given during the four days: 

1. Food Work — i. Preparation of vegetables — Classification, comparative 
nutritive value, preparation and serving. This included work on fresh vege- 
tables, cereals, and beans, 8-10 every day. Miss Stanley. 

2. Cooking of meat — Composition and nutritive value of various cuts of meat, 
and method of preparation best suited to each with reasons. Opportunity was 
ofif^red to see an animal cut up, showing wholesale and retail cutb. 2-4 every 
day. Miss Nesbitt. 

II. Sewing— I. Hand work — Simple stitches and general principles of hand 
sewing. Discussion of when used to best advantage. Making of button holes, 
etc. 8-10 every day. Miss Humfeld. 

2. Machine Work. — Fitting and making of simple waist. 2-4 every day. 
Miss Humfeld. 

III. House Sanitation— A general survey of the principles of house sanitation. 
Miss Nesbitt. 12-1 every day. 

IV. House Decoration — Study of art applied to home. Miss Dobbs. 9-10 
every day. 

V. Gardening — Professor Whitten. 

VI. Butter Making — Professor Eckles. 

VII. Poultry Raising. 



1 9 1 1 ] News from the Field 107 

During the last two sessions of the state legislature, liberal appropriations have 
been made for the work in Home Science. Two years ago the department moved 

into new quarters and now occupies the top floor of the new agri- 
Montana cultural building, with a floor space 68 x 150 feet. This is divided 
State Col- into 2 laboratories for foods and cookery, 3 sewing rooms, a bed room, 
lege of Agri- 2 class rooms, a dining room, lunch room, reception room and office. 
culture and Three courses are given, the regular college course, the four year 
Mechanic preparatory course and the one year course. Practice teaching is 
Arts. offered for seniors in the college course. The department is in 

charge of Professor Lilla A. Harkins. 

The new Home Economics building for which the last legislature of New York 
state made an appropriation of $154,000 is to provide on its first floor an assembly 
room to seat five or six hundred persons, a reading room, offices 
College of and class rooms. One floor is to be devoted to domestic art, and 
Agriculture, another to domestic science with chemistry and bacteriology labo- 
Cornell ratories for research work. There will be a small apartment in 

University, which the registered students will in turn take charge of the house- 
keeping and learn to apply principles to every-day life. In the 
basement will be a cafeteria where students in Home Economics will be trained to 
feed large numbers, also a laundry where students will learn the technique of 
handling textiles and managing the industry in a home or community. 

The Home Economics department at the present time has a four-year course 
leading to the degree of the college. With the present year there has been intro- 
duced into the course a department of house planning, furnishing and decorating. 
This is conducted by Mrs. Helen Binkerd Young, a graduate of the Cornell College 
of Architecture. 

According to a note in Science, the University of Pittsburgh announces the estab- 
lishment of four industrial fellowships: No. i, in the chemistry of baking, yielding 

$750 a year for two years, with a cash prize of $2,000, and Nos. 2, 
University of 3 and 4, for an investigation with a view to eliminating or abating 
Pittsburgh, the smoke nuisance in large cities, yielding $2,000, $1,500 and $750 

per year, respectively, for two years, together with a large additional 
consideration. 



The University of Porto Rico, which is situated at Rio Piedras, offers courses in 
both domestic science and domestic art. The work in domestic science includes 

methods of cooking and cookery for the sick and convalescent. 
Home Eco- Special attention is paid to the preparation of native foods. Lec- 
nomics at the tures and laboratory work are also provided in the coiurse on the 
University of chemistry of foods. The students of domestic art study various 
Porto Rico, stitches and their application and the making of undergarments 

and dressmaking. There is a course in millinery and art needle- 
work. The university also offers a course in pedagogy. 



io8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

For the last fifteen years there have been departments of domestic science and 
domestic art and for years this work has been required of all regular students for 

two years in each department. 
Winthrop Recently the state legislature included cooking in its list of sub- 

Normal and jects which should be taught in the high schools, so that we felt 
Industrial that this institution should offer a normal course in domestic science 
College, Rock which would fit students to go out as teachers. This year we 
Hill, S. C. offered such a course, and expect to graduate two from it in June, 

and several more next year. The normal domestic science course 
requires four years of work here, much of it the same as that of the other normal 
causes, with additional courses in home sanitation, advanced cookery, dietary work, 
laundry work, home nursing, food chemistry, food production and manufacture, 
and theory and practice of teaching in domestic science. Upon completion of this 
course the student receives the degree of B. S. 

All seniors of the college have practical application of the principles of home- 
keeping by their residence for a week each time in the Practice Home, to which 
they go in groups of eight. While there, under the direction of Miss Hyde, they 
conduct the home and keep exact daily accounts. — Margaret Whittemore, 
Teachers College 1907, Head of Domestic Science Department. 

Catharine A. Mulligan of the department of Home Economics writes: "My 
girls have been experimenting with the soy bean. Our Professor Morgan, head 
of the agricultural experiment station, has been urging its use both 
Original as a crop to enrich the soil and to feed cattle. We cooked the 

Work in the beans as we do navy beans down South, and as Boston baked 
University of beans, using the fireless cooker for part of the process. We used 
Tennessee, the meal ground here, containing 20 per cent of fat, and also meal 
from Seattle with the oil partly expressed. 

"We made muflBns and batter cakes and brown bread, using soy bean meal in 
place of com meal. 

"The meal has 38 per cent of protein in it, so in this day of high priced meat the 
soy bean is a very satisfactory substitute." 

The Housekeeper's Conference, held January 17-28, was designed to aid the 
women of the state in their household needs. Practical instruction in cooking, 
sewing, and home nursing was given in the new and completely 
Housekeep- equipped laboratories of the woman's building, and ample oppor- 
ers Confer- tunity offered for discussion of individual problems. 
ence, Agri- The general fee for the course was one dollar, the public lectures 
cultural Col- being free. The following subjects were treated : 
lege of Utah. Sewing lessons, by Rhoda B. Cook, on drafting of seven and nine 
gore patterns for skirts, and the making of one woolen skirt. 

Home nursing lessons, by Florence M. Brown, Lesson I, the sick room; Lesson 11, 
food for the sick; Lesson III, emergencies. 

Cooking Lessons, by Florence I. Dudley, on soups, breads, meat and vegetable 
cookery. 

Public Lectures: — The Simplifying of Housekeeping; A Demonstration of the 
Cuts of Beef; The Care of Children; The Production of Milk; The Vegetable Garden. 



1 9 1 1 ] News from the Field 109 

This school is situated at St. Kevin's Park, Kilmacud, Stillorgan, County of Dub- 
lin. The grounds include about three acres, including a large fruit and vegetable 

garden. In addition to the general courses a limited number of 
Irish Train- students are selected each year for training as teachers. For these 
ing School of a course of at least two sessions is given, including the principles of 
Domestic practical elementary science involved in domestic work; cookery; 

Economy. laundry; dressmaking and home sewing; housewifery (including 

household routine and the keeping of accounts; and practice in the 
these teaching of subjects. Practical instruction in home hygiene and sick nursing 
is also afforded, and instruction is given in the theory and practice of education. 

A most successful conference on school lunches was held by invitation of the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union on December 3 in Boston. It was 

the opinion that such conferences would be a great help to the 
Conference workers, and it is the intention to have some sort of organization. 
on School The many cities represented showed a variety of plans made 

Lunches. according to local conditions — most of these have already been 

described in the Journal and others will receive attention later. 
Most of the cities furnish food on a catering plan with an educational bias, 
although some have little scientific supervision. 

A slightly different idea underlies the furnishing of the 10 130 a.m. glass of milk or 
sandwich to the anaemic children. In Boston, where ten schools were tried last 
year, the authorities have authorized opening ten more and have assumed what- 
ever expense for fitting may be needed to a prescribed limit. The masters are coop- 
erating in an efficient manner and with the employment of a school visitor in each 
district there is reason to believe that the schools will themselves handle such a 
simple matter as a part of the routine, but that all food served will be paid for even 
if certain families are aided outside. It is rightly held that it must not be made 
easy to shift parental responsibility. 

Consul-General Richard Guenther of Frankfort, Germany, describes in a recent 
nimiber of the U. S. Daily Consular and Trade Reports an association of that city 

for supplying meals and other commodities to its members. 
A Success- This organization, known as the Gesellschaft fiir Wohlfahrtsein- 
ful German richtungen, was established on a small scale in 1891 as a joint stock 
Society for company for the benefit of the poorer and working classes of the pop)- 
Supplying ulation, and has steadily increased and expanded its work. It 
Food. now maintains eleven restaurants, or eating-rooms, seven canteens 

(where liquid refreshments and liquors are to be had), four coffee 
kitchens, one portable kitchen, one store for the sale of various provisions, two 
buffets or lunch-rooms, and one lecture hall. These institutions are well distributed 
in places where manufacturing or traffic abounds, also along the harbor and near 
the railway stations. Last year 475,000 cups of coffee were supplied at 6 pfen- 
nigs (1.4 cents) a cup, over 500,000 cups of milk at 7 pfennings, and 20,000 cups 
of cocoa at 10 pfennigs. 

Last spring the administrative oflaces were moved into a new building owned by 
the company, in which are also located lodging rooms for the unmarried workmen, 
a steam laundry, a bathing hall, and a bakery. The establishment is conducted 



no The Journal of Home Economics [February 

strictly according to commercial methods, and its staff includes a general manager, 
three assistants, and a corps of about loo cooks, stewards, etc. The sales last 
year aggregated nearly $90,000. 

A weil-cooked and ample dinner, consisting of soup, meat, vegetables, and pota- 
toes is served for 35 pfennigs (8.3 cents). Formerly it cost only 30 pfennigs, but was 
advanced because of the great increase in the price of foodstuffs. Single portions 
of meat or vegetables can be had at rates correspondingly low. Sales of lemonade 
and soda water are on the increase, although a considerable quantity of beer (in 
bottles) is disposed of. Cheap cigars, cigarettes, and smoking tobacco are also on 
sale. The price of lodging per week ranges from 38 to 60 cents. 

Free libraries and reading rooms are maintained in this and another building of 
the company. In the city of Offenbach, and in other industrial centers, institu- 
tions after the plan of this Frankfort model have been estabUshed and confer much 
benefit on the persons using them. 

This congress, held October 5-12, was one of about 70 which formed a feature of 
the Brussels International Exposition of 1910. Like the first congress, held in 

Paris, in 1906, it was due to the initiative of the French Soci6t6 
Second d'Hygiene Alimentaire. 

International The Brussels congress was divided into seven sections, namely: 
Congress on (i) biological physics and energetics; (2) physiology and physio- 
Alimentary logical chemistry — rational nutrition and dietetics; (3) hygiene of 
Hygiene nutrition, bacteriology, and parasitology — food poisoning; (4) food 

and Rational materials — their composition, analysis, and adulteration, with 
Nutrition of subsections on general food materials and on dairy products; (5) 
Man. potable waters; (6) legislation, inspection, suppression of fraud, 

statistics of food adulteration; and (7) teaching of rational nutri- 
tion and hygiene — methods of popular instruction in the subject, cooperative work, 
administration of food work, food charity work, and food in relation to sociological 
questions. 

The congress was called under the patronage of the King of Belgium and the Bel- 
gian Government, and numbered among its officials many men of prominence. 
Its sessions, as of other congresses at the Brussels Exposition, were held in the Palais 
des Fetes. The attendance was large, particularly the representation from various 
European countries. Dr. H. W. Wiley acted as chairman of the American com- 
mittee, and Dr. C. F. Langworthy as chairman of the American sub-committee 
on section i. 

The principal activities of the congress centered in the section meetings and the 
general conferences, both of which were of great interest. The plan was followed 
of printing and distributing the papers in advance, with a view to economizing 
time, as an author could then simply summarize his paper and present his results 
for discussion. The plan adopted permitted the greatest possible amount of dis- 
cussion and interchange of information in a given time. In many cases recommen- 
dations were adopted regarding future work having to do with the subjects pre- 
sented. 

Much interest was manifested in the energetics of nutrition, and the papers in 
section i, which had to do with this subject, were particularly numerous. The 
interest in questions of hygiene was shown by the able papers in section 3, which 



1 9 1 1 ] News fro m the Field 1 1 1 

included such topics as the danger of erposing foods for sale without due protec- 
tion from dust and dirt, physical methods for preserving food, including steriliza- 
tion and refrigeration, food poisoning of different types, chemical and bacteriolog- 
ical requirements for potable waters, and the prevention of tuberculosis infection 
through milk. Other papers which had to do with milk and dairy products formed 
a part of the list presented in section 4. 

The list of papers in section 7, likewise a long one, treated of such subjects as the 
feeding of infants, the food of laboring men, diet in different climates, army diet, 
and diet in rural regions. The educational side of the work was also strongly empha- 
sized in this section with papers on the teaching of nutrition in schools, the methods 
followed in Holland in popularizing work in rational nutrition and hygiene, and the 
methods of teaching Home Economics followed in a number of American colleges. 

In view of the interest and activity in himian nutrition in this country, it seemed 
desirable that the American work along these hnes should be adequately represented 
at the Brussels congress, and an effort was accordingly made by Dr. Langworthy 
to collect papers and other illustrative material. The response from the teachers, 
investigators, and others concerned was quite general, although the time was short. 
Some thirty papers were received from the landgrant institutions, other colleges, 
normal schools, etc., in the United States, which give domestic science courses. 

The following is a partial list: Course in Domestic Science, Domestic Science Di- 
vision, School of Agriculture, University of Minnesota, Juniata L. Shepperd; The 
Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin, and Its Work, Abby 
L. Marlatt; Research Work in the Domestic Science Division, College of Agricul- 
ture, University of Minnesota — papers by Florence Gaumnitz and Mary L. Bull; 
Outline of Course in Domestic Science, College of Agriculture, University of Minne- 
sota, Martha B. Moorhead; The Feeding of School Children, Caroline L. Hunt; 
The American Home Economics Association and Its Work, Benjamin R. Andrews; 
The Respiration Calorimeter at the Institute of Animal Nutrition of the Pennsyl- 
vania State College, H. P. Armsby; The Bomb Calorimeter, Methods of Standard- 
ization, Choice of a Standard Calorimetric Substance, and the Use of a Variable 
Water Equivalent, J. A. Fries; The Influence of Type and of Age Upon the Utili- 
zation of Feed by Cattle. Investigations at the Institute of Animal Nutrition, 
Pennsylvania State College, H. P. Armsby and J. A. Fries; Description of the Im- 
proved Respiration Calorimeter Installed at the Office of Experiment Stations in 
the Department of Agriculture, and a Statement of the Work Which is Being Under- 
taken With It, C. F. Langworthy and R. D. Milner; Progress Report of Investiga- 
tions in Human Nutrition in the United States, in 1906-1910, C. F. Langworthy; 
The Relative Ease of Digestion of Cheese as Compared with Beef, C. F. Langworthy 
and R. D. Milner; Technical Reports, Popular Bulletins, and other Nutrition Pub- 
lications of the Office of Experiment Stations, C. F. Langworthy; The Origin and 
Development of the Nutrition Investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, C. F. Langworthy; Prevention of Tuberculosis 
Infection Through Milk, M. P. Ravenel; The Working Man's Food in New York 
and Popularizing Instruction in Rational Feeding, Winifred S. Gibbs; Notes De- 
scribing Briefly the Work That is Being Accomplished in This Country Along the 
Lines Outlined in Section 7, Ellen H. Richards; and Dietary for One Week for a 
Family of Five at a Cost of Five Dollars, Electra H. Cobb, Alice V. Gould, Bertha 
M. Nutting, and Allae C. Slater, Rhode Island State College. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Report of the [Massachusetts] Commission on the Cost of Living. R. Luce 

et al. Boston, Mass. State. House Rpt. No. 1750, 1910, pp. 752. 

This volume contains a mass of data relative to the cost of living, as gathered by 
the Massachusetts State Commission in 1910, and deserves the attention of all 
students of Home Economics. Its scope may be indicated by its section headings 
of price statistics, wages and hours of labor, chief items of expenditure, general 
analysis and classification of these items, social wastage, individual wastage, changes 
in supply, changes in demand, changes in value of money, effects of increase of cost 
of living and conclusions. There is also an appendix discussing public markets 
in Boston; family budgets; waste of health; Massachusetts farm produce; current 
explanations of high prices; prices of trust-controlled commodities; statistics of 
crime, pauperism, and insanity, agriculture in Massachusetts, meat supply, and 
markets; articles purchased in Boston and reweighed and measured by the State 
Department of Weights and Measures; savings and cooperative banks; and com- 
parative expenditures at state institutions. 

The findings of the commission with regard to the causes of the recent advance 
of prices are that the primary world-wide cause is the increase of the gold supply. 
In the United States it has been greatly accelerated by an enormous waste of in- 
come "through uneconomic expenditures for war and national armament and 
through multiple forms of extravagance, both public and private, and of wastage, 
both individual and social." It has been further promoted by factors affecting 
production and consumption, such as the drain of population from the land to add 
to the non-producing food consumers of cities; uneconomic methods of production 
and distribution; and the increase in the standard of living coupled with a national 
tendency to extravagance. The tariff, trusts, and laoor unions are not regarded 
as direct and active causes. 

Among the recommendations for legislation are the establishment of a commis- 
sion of commerce, before which citizens may lay complaints of injustice; a commis- 
sion on market improvements; the enactment of a law requiring packages of food 
products to be labelled as the net weight or volume of their contents; the better 
inspection of cold storage plants; and an improvement in the methods of gather- 
ing statistics. 

Wage Earning Women. Annie Marion McLean. MacMillan Co., New York. 
iQio. Pp. 202. Price $1.25. 
This is a study based on the work of some twenty investigators who made detailed 
studies of women in the industries of New England, New York City, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, the Middle West including Chicago, and the Far West. The book 
is descriptive of conditions as they may be observed by one going into the shops 

112 



iQiiJ Books and Literature 113 

and mills. It is further a very readable volume, vivid with detail. The study 
was made under the auspices of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A., and Miss 
Grace H. Dodge of the Board contributes an introductory word. The last two 
chapters deal with Uplifting Forces and Suggestions for Improvement. — B. R. A. 

A Manual of Personal Hygiene. Proper Living upon a Physiologic Basis. By 
Eminent Specialists. Edited by Walter L. Pyle, M.D. Fourth Revised 
Edition, 1 2mo, of 472 pages, illustrated. Philadelphia and London: W. B. 
Saunders Company. 1910. $1.50. 
This is a revised edition of a standard text book. 

The Practical Teaching of Housewifery to Girls in the Elementary 

Schools. Lucy A. Crass {Pub.. Health [London], 24 (1910), No. i, pp. 6-10, 

figs- 4)- 

The main purpose of this article is to describe the practical way in which the 
teaching of housekeeping is being conducted in Manchester, England. 

Good provision for the teaching of cooking and laundering is found in over 50 cen- 
ters, and more than 30 special teachers are employed in teaching these subjects to 
girls over 11 years of age. Special courses in the feeding and care of infants are 
given by 2 specially qualified teachers to the girls in grade 5 and above. The 
h'<usekeeping instruction is not given in the schools but in cottages of the type lived 
in by most of the children attending the centers. These cottages are tastefully 
but simply furnished, and are equipped with suitable but not elaborate cooking 
and laundering appliances. The teacher lives at the center. Each course extends 
through 7 or 8 weeks and the pupils attend for the whole of the ordinary school 
hours during this period. By this continuous term of instruction girls can get 
a much more comprehensive view and a much better grasp of the subject of house- 
hold management than is possible when isolated lessons are given. Twelve girls 
attend at one time. 

In addition to the practical instruction in housekeeping, sewing, cooking, and 
laundering, lectures are given by the teacher on 2 or 3 afternoons of the week on 
such subjects as the choice of a house, ventilation, drainage, division of income, 
household accounts, management and care of household linen, choice of food, 
clothes, etc. A fully qualified nurse comes to the center one afternoon each week 
and lectures on the care and feeding of infants, and under her superintendence the 
girls bathe, dress, and tend a real live baby loaned for the purpose. The general 
plan of the week's work is outlined. The work is divided into three sections, 
namely, cooking, laundering, and housekeeping, and the pupils are also divided into 
three groups of four girls each, each being responsible for one section of the work 
for a week at a time, taking each section in rotation. 

Back Numbers Wanted of the Journal of Home Economics. 

The editors repeat their request for Nos. i and 2 of Volume I, and No. i of 
Volume II. Forty cents will be paid for each number in cash or in credit on 
subscription. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Ill JUNE, 191 1 No. 3 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1911. 

EDITOR— :Mrs. :\Iary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, :Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 

ExTEXSiox, Miss Axxa Barrows, 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Food axt) Xutpitiox, Dr. C. F. Laxgworthy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Textiles axtj Clothing, iliss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin. 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Administration, Mrs. MelVil Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

Th£ Family, Dr. Thom.a.s D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 

Affiliated Societies — Miss IMartha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University , 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

JUXE, 19 II 

The death of Mrs. E. H. Richards 213 

Mrs. Richards' relation to the Home Economics ^Movement, Isabel Bevier 214 

In Memoriam — Ellen H. Richards, Laura E. Richards 216 

A study of the subject of textiles as it is presented in higher institutions, 

Abby L. Marlatt 217 

The content of a college course in textiles for the training of teachers, and its 

application in the lower schools, Nellie Crooks 222 

Textile experimentation, Agnes H. Craig 229 

Some textile tests in connection with the Child \\'elfare Exhibit, Grace Denny 236 
Textile testing laboratory for the U. S. Army at Governor's Island, N. Y. 

Florence Winchell 240 

The value of a course in historic costume, Jane Fales 2.^3 

Art the foundation of domestic art, Lua R. Crawford 246 

Analysis of blues, L. Ray Balderston and Matilda J. McKeown 251 

Aspects of economics of importance in household science, David Kinley 253 

Response to Prof. Kinlev's address, Frank A. Fetter 257 

Some features of nutrition during growth, L. B. Mendel 262 

Institutions in the United States giving instruction in Home Economics, Marie 

T. Spethmann 269 

Suggested outhnes for club study, IMrs. Olaf N. Guldhn 295 

Six talks on house management and methods 305 

Bibliography of periodicals 307 

The form of phosphorus in meat, Louise Stanley 311 

National Education Association program 312 

Editorials 314 

News from the field 317 

Books and literature 321 



DRESS liATEKIAL 
?rio6 per yard 

Sold as all wool 




From " llar])er"s Weekly." 



rnpyriglil. 1!)10, by Harper & Brothers. 



An "All-Wool" Dress Material, showing upon Test 34.12 Per Cent 
of Cotton. (See Page 222.) 



THE 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. III. JUNE, 191 1 No. 3 

THE DEATH OF MRS. ELLEN H. RICHARDS. 

Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, former president of the American Home 
Economics Association, died at her home, 32 Eliot St., Jamaica Plain, 
Massachusetts, on March 30 after a week's illness. On the 23d she was 
stricken with angina pectoris, a disease of which she had formerly 
had lighter attacks. She rallied, and for a few days there was hope of 
her recovery. On the 24th she even put the final touches to a paper 
which she was to read at the Congress of Technology to be held the 
second week of April. But a relapse soon followed and after a short 
period of unconsciousness on the 30th she died peacefully. 

The funeral services were held April 2 in Trinity Church, Boston. 

Mrs. Richards was bom in Dunstable, Massachusetts, December 3, 
1842, the daughter of Peter G. and Fannie Swallow. She graduated 
from Vassar College in 1870 and three years later was given the degree 
of M. A. from that collegeand of B. S. from the Institute of Technology. 
She was in that year appointed instructor in sanitary chemistry in 
the Women's Laboratory of the Institute and later was given the chair 
of sanitary chemistry which she held until her death. 

In 1875 she married Prof. Robert H. Richards of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. 

A life of Mrsi Richards is to be written with the approval of Profes- 
sor Richards. It is hoped that the story of her life may be of such a 
character that it will not only interest those who have known Mrs. 
Richards either personally or through her work but will also serve to 
extend her influence and to inspire future workers. Any material 
such as letters, photographs, characteristic sayings, and incidents 
which wiU help to show her personality and her far-reaching interests 
and activities will be very valuable to the editor. Miss Caroline L. 
Hunt, and should be sent to her at 32 Eliot Street, Jamaica Plain, 
Massachusetts. 

2P3 



MRS. RICHARDS' RELATION TO THE HOME 
ECONOMICS MOVEMENT. 

Isabel Bevier. 

Professor of Household Science, University of Illinois, and President American Home 
Economics Association. 

We stand too much in the shadow of our great loss, too near to the 
results of Mrs. Richards' life, to form any adequate judgment of the 
countless ways in which she has influenced the Home Economics 
movement. Those at all familiar with the movement know that she 
has been for twenty-five years its prophet, its interpreter, its conser- 
vator, its inspirer, and to use her own word, its engineer. 

As long ago as 1889 she was pleading for "domestic economy as a 
factor in public education. ' ' When Home Economics had no name and 
no place in the thought or plans of either philanthropists or educators, 
Mrs. Richards was working for it through the Collegiate Alumnae, the 
New England Kitchen, through sanitary chemistry, with individuals 
in their special problems, with groups of adventurous spirits seekng 
more light on the common daily tasks. Perhaps no one has ever served 
any cause through so many different channels. 

In her were combined to an unusual degree the vision of the prophet 
with the constructive power of the engineer. Her visions must be 
wrought into deeds, and then she moved on quickly to a new vision, 
There comes to mind a remark she made to me once about a piece of 
work, "No use in doing that any more. You know how, go on to 
something new." It was the habit of her life to fashion old truths 
into new forms, to keep pace with the wheels of progress. 

As an interpreter of Home Economics she has had no equal. To the 
scientist and sanitarian she could present its scientificand sanitary 
aspects; the next moment she could show the society leader its social 
significance, and then turn to the manager of the lunch room and the 
teacher and explain how they, each in their own way, could promote its 
interests. A glance at her published works shows the breadth of her 
view and her firm grasp on the essential principles of the Art of Right 
Living of which she spoke and wrote so often. 

214 



iQii] Mrs. Richards and Home Economics 215 

Mrs. Richards was so preeminently the moving spirit in so many 
enterprises that one forgets sometimes how much the world owes to 
her as a conservator, as well as an originator, of much that is best in 
our ideals of home and family life. The debt which Home Economics 
owes to her in this respect is a very large one. A self-seeking woman 
of narrow sympathies would have wrecked it many times, but her sani- 
ity, her sense of humor, her power of silence, her tolerance, her resource- 
fulness, and her discrimination made her its great conservator. No 
fads or fancies clouded her clear vision of essentials and non-essentials. 
Some of the last words she wrote show best her method. 

Have faith in the working out of the destiny of the race; be ready to accept the 
unaccustomed, to use the radium of social progress to cure the ulcers of the old 
friction. What if a few mistakes are made? How else shall the truth be learned? 
Try all things and hold fast that which is good. 

Because she had this faith, this willingness to accept the unaccus- 
tomed, this ability to hold fast to the good, people trusted her judg- 
ment, followed her lead, even though they had not seen her vision. 
Her counsel has been sought by workers in every phase of the movement 
and from every part of the United States. Resourceful, alert, with 
unflagging energy and unbounded generosity, she could be depended 
upon to give something adapted to the particular need of each person 
or undertaking, could counsel how to avoid the rocks and pitfalls, 
and where, "having done all, to stand." In this sense she has served 
for many years as consulting engineer to the Home Economics move- 
ment. It is safe to say no university department has been organized, 
no important step taken, in which her ideas and her counsels have not 
had a part. 

No more signal proof of her wise leadership is found than in the way 
in which she cherished and developed this unknown movement until 
it made for itself a place in the councils of our foremost educational 
organization, the National Education Association. There must have 
been a peculiar pleasure to her, as there was an evident appropriate- 
ness, in the request that she take her place in the Council of the N.E. 
A. and represent Home Economics. Then she could say, as she did 
at the Boston Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 

To us to-day, is given to see the tree of our nurture with its roots firmly planted 
and branches spreading from sea to sea. The seed of it was planted many years 
ago and has many times been dug up to see if life existed. Home Economics, 



2i6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the preservation of the home and the economics of living, occupy a large space in 
the transactions of societies and even in the daily press. 

Better yet than all these tangible results of her numerous and varied 
activities, greater even than her power of initiative, was her power to 
inspire, to give fresh courage and new hope to those who had grown 
discouraged by the hardships of the way. Only those who have felt 
that heahng touch and who have gone from her with a new vision of 
service realize the greatness of our loss. Only she could have said, 
as she did at the close of a busy week at the Boston Convention, these 
characteristic words which must ever serve as a watch-word as well 
as a benediction: 

The word I wish to leave with you is Courage — Faith in the evolution of the race — 
Progress by the very means which seem at first sight to destroy all cherished ideals. 



IN MEMORIAM: ELLEN H. RICHARDS. 

A voice is hushed: but ere it failed, 

The listening echoes caught its tone, 
And now its message clear and keen 

On every wind of heaven is blown. 

A staff is broke: but ere it snapped, 

Those who had leaned on it so long 
Had made its steadfast fibre theirs, 

And fare now forward, straight and strong. 

A light is quenched: but ere it paled, 

It lit a hundred torches' flame, 
That shine across the darkening sky, 

And star with gold one honored name. 

Laura E. Richards. 



April, iQii. 



A STUDY OF THE SUBJECT OF TEXTILES AS IT IS 
PRESENTED IN HIGHER INSTITUTIONS. 

Abby L. Marlatt. 

Professor of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin. 

With a \dew to obtaining data as to the status of the teaching of 
textiles, letters were sent to the leading colleges and universities in 
this country' asking what was presented under this title, first as to 
subject matter and second as to laboratory work. RepHes were received 
from some thirty institutions, including technical institutions, col- 
leges, and universities, situated from Maine to the Hawaiian Islands. 

The results showed a very great difference in the standards as far 
as prerequisites, character and extent of work, and credits granted for 
graduation were concerned. Three required the student to take 
courses only in art and design ; two required courses in chemistry as 
prerequisites; four required courses in the general subject of sewing for 
which no credit was given towards graduation; three institutions 
granted four credits in this subject; eight gave only laboratory work 
in the study of textiles; nine gave laboratory work in the design of 
costumes; two gave laboratory work in dyeing; four gave no work in 
textiles; two gave full work in textiles, and two gave full work in 
applied art; six reported no work in applied art; botany was a pre- 
requisite in one institution; nineteen gave courses in appUed art. 

There seems to be a very wide latitude concerning the subject of 
the definition of a course in textiles. Varying with the institution, 
it seems to cover the study of textile fibres, their manufacture, chem- 
ical composition, adulteration, and hygienic value, through every 
phase of the clothing industry and the arts and crafts movement. One 
institution reports that under the name of textiles they give "sewing, 
handwork, often modelwork, with a few vague textile lectures." One 
writes that the students prepare essays on the four fibres, while one 
of our most prominent professional schools for women states that they 
give nothing under the name of textiles. The following outline repre- 
sents in tabulated form the subject matter which is presented in the 
various institutions under this title. Only two, as previously stated, 
give all of this work. 

217 



2i8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

TEXTILES: SUBJECT MATIER. 



Phases: 








I. 


Historic: Evolution of Industry— 


-Processes (lecture) 




(A) 


Spinning. 






(B) 


Weaving. 






(C) 


Design (printing). 






(D) 


Color in fabrics (dyeing). 






(E) 


Bleaching. 





II. Economic Conditions Gectures) : 

(A) Home industries. 

(B) Rise of factory system. 

(C) Effect on woman as wage earner. 

III. Modern Conditions: — 

(A) Study of fibres used today: 

(i) Distribution. 

(2) Cultivation and varieties. 

(3) Treatment in factory: — 

(a) Bleaching. 

(b) Dyeing. 

(c) Adulteration. 

(B) Characteristic of each fibre (lectures and laboratory work) : 

(i) Structure under the microscope. 

(2) Chemical nature. 

(3) Effect of chemicals on fibre: — 

(a) Acids. 

(b) Alkalies. 

(c) Metallic salts. 

(d) Bleaching powders. 

(e) Dyes : — 

I. Kinds: — Acid, basic, substantive, mordants, 

vegetable dyes, mineral dyes. 

II. Testing fastness to perspiration, water, wash- 

ing, crocking, fat solvents. 

(4) Elasticity and tensile strength: — 

(a) Native. 

(b) As affected by manufacture. 

(c) As affected by laundry processes. 

(5) Hygroscopicity. 

(6) Tests for adulteration. 

(C) Study of fabrics: — Fibre, weave, dye, adulteration. 

(D) Value of each fabric for use in clothing: 

(i) Air retention. 

(2) Water retention. 

(3) Shrinkage in wearing and washing. 

(4) Wearing or lasting quality, 
(s) Relative cost. 



(i) Ready to 
wear 
clothing 



191 1] Study of Textiles in Higher Institutions 219 

(E) Historic use of fabrics for protection and ornament (lectures): 
(i) Beautiful fabrics of history: — 

(a) Design and color. 

(b) Use in dress and house decoration. 
(2) History of costume: — 

(a) Evolution of dress. 

(b) Cyclic character of fashion. 

(c) Economic and industrial phases of fashion change. 

IV. Selection and Manufacture of Clothing: 
(laboratory work) 

(A) Manufacture of clothing: — 
Factory system. 
Sweat shop system. 
Consumer's league. 
Child labor laws. 

(2) Home made clothing. 

(3) Modiste or tailor made clothing. 

(B) Relative cost of home made, tailor made, and ready to wear 
clothing. 

(C) Cost of clothing for a year: 
(i) Low. 

(2) Medium. 

(3) Luxury. 

(D) Design applied to dress (lectures) : — 
(i) Measure harmony: — 

(a) In human figure. 

(b) In parts of garments. 

(c) Between parts of costume. 

(2) Essentials of a beautiful gown: — 

(a) Proportion and line. 

(b) Beauty of material. 

(c) E.xcellence of workmanship. 

(3) Appropriateness in gowns: — 

(a) Suited to individuality (should express the wearer). 

(b) Suited to color of hair, eyes, skin, etc. 

(c) Suited to the occasion. 

(4) Designing of costumes (laboratory work). 

Arts and Crafts Movement: — 

(A) Design for weaving, stenciling, block printing on useful articles. 

(B) Practice in weaving, stenciling, block printing. 

(C) Practice in dyeing: — 

(1) One color. 

(2) Tied design. 

(3) Batiek. 

(4) Bleaching designs. 



220 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Under the term "applied art" the following work is offered in some 
of the institutions: Weaving, basketry, stenciling, block printing, 
dyeing, embroidering, lace making, crocheting, knitting, netting, 
hand sewing, modeling, pottery, leather work, harmnered work in 
metal, enameling, jewelry, bookbinding, and house decoration. 
Some of these subjects were offered under the name of "domestic 
art," some were offered under the name of " applied art " in the art 
department, and some were offered under the name of "manual train- 
ing." Many of them were seemingly given without any definite pre- 
vious training in design. 

If we as instructors are to help in raising the art appreciation of the 
educated people of the country, we must insist that there shall not only 
be lectures on the historic phases of art, but also laboratory courses in 
design preceding any application of design in textile work or house 
decoration. There should be courses offered in experimental psy- 
chology which will make the laws of beauty more nearly clear. Such 
courses will emphasize the value of line and space relation and color, 
and change the teaching from arbitrary statements, showing the indi- 
vidual preference of the lecturer, to the presentation of the fundamental 
principles which under lie all appreciation of beauty. 

The following recommendation as to prerequisites and general 
subjects for lecture and laboratory work is presented with the idea 
that it will at least give a basis for more nearly uniform work to be 
presented under the name of "textiles." 



Prerequisites required: 

Art and design, chemistry. 
Additional prerequisites suggested: — 

Botan}-, economics, sewing (without college credit). 
Lecture work: — 

Historical, economic, chemical, hygienic, artistic study of textiles. 
Laboratory work in textiles: — 

Microscopic examinations. 

Chemical tests for composition and adulterations. 

Reaction to acids, alkalies, salts, and dyes in the processes of manufacture. 

Study of dyes in their effect upon textile fibres. 

Study of laundry problems as they affect the various textiles. 

Study of hygienic problems under the headings of air retention, moisture retention, 
and heat retention. 

Effect of the color of the fabric upon the individual. 

Study of artistic problems under the subject of applied design in weaving, sten- 
ciling, block printing, and dyeing. 



igii] Study of Textiles in Higher Institutions 221 

The following is suggested as a sequence course in textiles and 
applied art: 

I. Art and Design: 

Lecture and laboratory work offering at least 3 credits toward graduation. 
II. Textiles: 

Lecture and laboratory work offering at least 4 credits toward graduation. 
III. ^Manufacture and Selection of Clothing. 

Lecture and laboratory work offering at least 5 credits toward graduation. 
IV. House Decoration: 

Lecture and laboratory' work offering at least 4 credits toward graduation. 
V. Household Management: 

(i) Purchase of material. 

(2) Cleaning of material. 

(3) Preserv-ation of material. 

Lecture and laborator>' work offering at least 3 credits toward graduation. 

The subject of theses in textile study and applied art in textiles is 
one that should be developed much more than it is. The field is 
comparatively unworked, in fact it is very difficult to find definite 
and authoritative material except in very technical form in print 
to-day. The undergraduate thesis may well include experimentation 
along the line of composition, adulteration, and economic problems. 

The following theses are reported from the various institutions: 

Ohio State University: — 

(i) Study of Standard Wool and Silk Fabrics. 

(2) Furnishing a Given Home on a Small Amount of Money: (a) in Good 
Taste, (b) in Bad Taste. 
South Dakota State College: 

(i) Selection and Cost of House Furnishing under Specified Conditions. 
University of Wisconsin: 

(i) Adulterations in Silk Fabrics Found in the Open Market. 

(2) Effect of Washing Compounds on Tensile Strength of Cotton and Linen 

Fabrics — A Study in Methods. 

(3) The Effect upon the Ultimate Consumer of the Present Schedule "K" 

(Tariff on Wool). 

If the various universities and colleges unite in doing research work 
along the lines blazed by Miss Nellie Crooks while studying at Teach- 
ers College, we shall have eventually a body of knowledge that will 
be of benefit not only to the teaching profession, but to everyone. The 
textile problem requires as much study and unfortunately as much 
legislation as does the pure food problem. The Home Economics 
departments are in a position to aid very materially in this work. 



THE CONTENT OF A COLLEGE COURSE IN TEXTILES 
FOR THE TRAINING OF TEACHERS, AND ITS 
APPLICATION IN THE LOWER SCHOOLS.^ 

Nellie Crooks. 

Milwaukee-Doumer College. 

Much of the teaching of domestic art in elementary and high schools 
has for a long time been narrow and formal. This condition has been 
largely due to the teacher's lack of knowledge of the principles that 
underlie the work. In many of the courses for the training of teach- 
ers in domestic art, perfection in technique is considered the only thing 
of value. For this reason technical skill has been demanded of the 
pupils. Yet the fact that children as well as adults are consumers 
makes a necessity of teaching standards of living and the spending of 
money in the grades and high schools as well as in the colleges. These, 
when taught with the lessons in domestic art, give the whole subject 
a broader and more living value. The study of the subject of textiles 
should supply a large part of the thought content of all this work. 

As I have studied the catalogs of colleges, high schools and e emen- 
tary schools, I have found many and various activities included under 
the word "textiles." The study of fabrics, the cost of materials, 
sewing, dress-making, miUinery, basketry, all are included under the 
magic word. A course in textiles has been used to cover such a large 
and indefinite field of instruction that it is difficult to tell what really 
is included in the subject. I shall use the term to include the study 
of all fibres and woven goods produced from them, considered from the 
point of view of the consumer. 

The object of a course in textiles for teachers should be to give a 
basis for constructive work in domestic art in the elementary and 

'Presented at the St. Louis Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 1910. The tests shown in the illustrations wera made at 
Teachers College, Columbia University, by Miss Crooks. Illustrations reproduced 
from Harper's Weekly by permission. 

222 



iQii] '4 College Course in Textiles for Teachers 223 

secondary schools, not for the training of any individual artistic gifts. 
The latter, to be sure, has its place, but it belongs to the study of arts 
and crafts, rather than in a course in textiles. Many courses place so 
much emphasis on the purely artistic and mechanical side of the work 
that the student gets no grasp of the subject as a whole. Some knowl- 
edge of weaving is necessary, but hours spent in weaving intricate 
patterns can give only mechanical skill, and unless followed by study 
of fibre and materials are not sufficient to train the teacher for her future 
work. The same is true of extensive work in dyeing. Unless the 
student can study the dyes as to fastness to light, durability, and their 
other economic values, the result of the work has artistic value only. 
The teacher must have a comprehensive knowledge of the raw fibres 
and the processes used in making fabrics in order to be able to judge 
the finished product. Is it not time that we consider true thrift con- 
sists in spending wisely as well as in saving ? Women are the spenders 
of money, yet how little is taught of the relative values of materials 
or of the condition of labor for which they are responsible by their 
demand for cheap showy goods. 

The study of textiles should be used as a basis for all the work in 
domestic arts that is included under the terms sewing, millinery, and 
dress-making. These subjects should teach the application of all 
textile principles, but they usually deal only with the manipulation of 
material. I hope to show that the study of textiles itself has enough 
scientific and economic basis to be not an adjunct but a fundamental 
part of Home Economics and that the subject matter can not be fur- 
nished by any other study. Let us consider: (i) The content of a 
course in textiles in college, and the fundamental principles and stand- 
ards that should be expected in a teacher of these subjects in the lower 
schools; (2) the application of these facts and principles to courses 
in the lower schools. 

Certain pre-requisites are required for this college course. There 
should be a year of practical work in chemistry and enough history 
to furnish a background. A course in economics should if possible 
precede or accompany it. 

The field is so vast that in every college course some one phase of 
the work is especially emphasized. For convenience we may divide 
the study of textiles into the following four groups: (i) Historic, 
(2) artistic, (3) hygienic, (4) economic. In the early part of the col- 
lege work which I shall try to outline, economic principles are empha- 
sized both in the reference reading and the experimental work. We 



2 24 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

begin by tracing the industries from primitive conditions, and the devel- 
opment of civilization as expressed by hand work. This we find illus- 
trated by the rude shelter of woven branches which was the beginning 
of weaving, and the struggle of primitive people to obtain the neces- 
sities of life, as food, shelter, and clothing. We trace briefly the evo- 
lution of the home; the change from a wandering to a settled life as it 
afiected the lives of women; the gradual progress of the industries and 
the change this made in the life of the people; and the development of 
the loom and the materials that were first used for clothing. While 
we study the place of woman in early civiUzation and her struggle with 
adverse circumstances, we try before we complete this part of the work 
to bury the primitive woman, that specter that has haunted Home 
Economics for so many years. 

We trace the evolution of the industries through trade and barter; 
the differentiation of producer and consumer; the corresponding dis- 
tribution and localization of different trades and industries; and the 
organization of the industries through the guilds. Parallel with this 
is the development of the life of women and children in the home. 
We include also the economic independence of isolated people, such as 
the American colonists, and the larger significance of the fact even in 
so poHtical a matter as the American Revolution. To illustrate this 
point we have only to remember the influence of the ability of women 
to spin and weave in colonial times. This enabled them at the time 
of the Revolution to supply the pressing needs of the army. The 
well known account of the woman and her daughter in Massachusetts, 
who in twenty-four hour? sheared a sheep, washed, spun, and wove the 
wool, and made a suit of clothes for the boy to wear to fight for hberty, 
illustrates this point. 

The course also includes the industrial revolution, as brought about 
by inventions; the economic changes, notably the transfer of women's 
work from the home to the factory; and the textile inventions that 
were largely instrumental in bringing about this change and the estab- 
lishment of the factory system. The lives of the inventors furnish 
much that will be of interest later. 

Turning now from the evolution of the household industries to the 
raw material, we come to the general classification of fibres used in 
the textile industry. These group themselves under the heads of ani- 
mal, vegetable, mineral, and artificial fibres. These classes are dis- 
tinguished first by chemical and microscopic tests and their general 
characteristics noted. We then take up the separate study of wool. 



^^^^^^^^^^^^H 




^^^^^^^^sfiT^^^*^^ 


- 



5 =« 






9 -(-^' 
5 ft 




igii] A College Course in Textiles for Teachers 225 

silk, cotton, and flax. In order to illustrate we will consider a few of 
the points taken up in the study of wool. 

The chemical and microscopic study of wool is more intensive, for 
the aim is to make the work an accurate basis for future tests in cloth 
adulteration. When I first took up the work in adulteration in tex- 
tiles few books were written on the subject, but now there are a num- 
ber of works that the student can consult. But care and time is nec- 
essary in the laboratory work to obtain results that will be of any value. 
We study different kinds of wool and hair in order to distinguish 
perfect and imperfect fibres. The consumer who beheves he is receiv- 
ing all wool when he makes his purchase needs to be convinced by 
actual tests that it is possible that his purchase, in spite of a fair 
exterior, may contain only a small percentage of wool. To show this, 
accurate and exact knowledge of the fibres must be obtained by the 
student in the laboratory. 

The study of the manufacture of wool and worsted goods in colonial 
times is made a basis for the study of factory-made materials. Intri- 
cate problems of machinery are not entered into but only touched on. 
Mills are visited and the principal processes of making the yarn and 
weaving are observed and afterwards discussed in class. Simple 
checks, stripes and twills are designed and woven by the students. 

Having gained this knowledge of the manufacture of wool mate- 
ials, the student has a foundation for judging different qualities of 
materials. In order to know more fully what constitute good mate- 
rials and to be able to judge by sight and touch, comparisons are made 
and judgments formed which will be of value when shopping. 

The tests are divided into two general classes, those that can be 
used when shopping and those that have to be made at home or in the 
laboratory. In order to aid the future shopper, yard pieces of a great 
variety of wool and worsted goods are seen and handled, for example 
serges from 75 cents to $2 . 50 a yard, broadcloths, and cheviots, of differ- 
ent prices and of foreign and domestic make. Small samples are of 
little use in this work, as the pieces must be sufi&ciently large for the 
student to get the "feel" of the goods. 

The difference between linen and cotton is always difficult to deter- 
mine. A few of the simple tests are: (i) Tearing the material and 
comparing the frayed edges; (2) burning the threads, reducing them 
to ashes and comparing the results; (3) using ink, in which a difference 
of capillary attraction is noted, due to the wax having been removed 
from the cotton, and the fibrous structure of flax; and (4) applying 



226 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

glycerin, when the cotton remains opaque and the linen becomes 
translucent. 

The laboratory tests of woven goods may be as various as time 
permits, embracing tests for durability, dyes and analysis of all kinds 
of woolen fabrics, with as much quantitative work as desired. As 
silk is the most expensive raw fibre it is more subject to adulteration 
than any other. The most common methods are to mix it with cotton 
or ramie and actually to weight the silk threads with sugar, starch, or 
mineral salts. Most of this weighting is in the weft as the warp has 
to stand the greater strain in the weaving. The Little pinholes that 
come so suddenly and unexpectedly in new silk skirts, we all know. 
These holes are first seen when the goods are held to the light and are 
generally caused by the metal salts used in weighting the silk. The 
small particles of salt used adhere to threads of the silk; when the 
threads rub against one another the roughness of the adhering salt 
makes them break. Mercerized cotton looks so like silk under the 
microscope that cuprammonia has to be used to bring the twist back 
to the cotton fibres. 

Very much of the same course of work as that outHned for wool is 
followed with every other fibre. The artistic and historic study of 
each fibre is also considered in detail. When time allows it, quanti- 
tative work is taken up in the laboratory, and what revelations are 
made! Table linen, towels, and other goods marked linen, are found 
to have a large percentage of cotton. The students bring their own 
material as much as possible for these tests. Through all this study, 
the economic side of the question, as seen by the consumer, is taken 
up, even the intricacies of Schedule "K" being touched on in order to 
show the relation of the consumer towards our much protected wool 
industry. 

On the hygienic side, experiments are made to test the different 
absorbent powers of wool, cotton, silk, flax, in reference to the choice 
of materials for underclothing. The subject of healthful and appro- 
priate dress is made the basis for much discussion. Throughout the 
course, stereopticon lectures are used to illustrate the points taken up; 
visits to factories and stores; and a complete exhibit of materials, 
both before and after they have been subjected to wear, is used as 
a ground for comparison, and as a basis for the last part of the work. 

The division of income, estimating the cost of clothing for indivi- 
duals and families, and the application of the principles learned in the 
course in planning the equipping of a home with materials that will 



19 1 1] A College Course in Textiles for Teachers 227 

wear the best, at the smallest cost, completes the work. We spend 
much time in stud}ing the wearing qualities of carpets, rugs, etc., the 
prices of the different kinds of curtains, and the relative merits of 
net, scrim, and lace. 

In the purchasing of table linen much depends on the judgment of 
the buyer. As there are now so many ways of adulterating this 
class of goods, we take the subject up in detail. We are greatly aided 
by the careful records and samples of table linen and towels kept by 
the matron of one of our halls. These cover different kinds of table 
linen that have been used, the effect of constant laundering, the ques- 
tion of plain linen versus pattern cloth, and most important of all, 
the difference in wearing value, as shown by a sUght difference in price 
per yard. This will be of value not only for the teacher and the matron 
of an institution but for the home maker. 

Having thus briefly sketched the body of knowledge upon which 
a textile course in college is founded, let us see how this knowledge 
can be applied in the elementary and high schools as a basis for domes- 
tic art work. In the sewing in the lower grades, the study of each 
material that the child is working on gives an added interest, and 
should be a fundamental part of the work. This may be taught at 
the beginning of the lesson by illustrative materials, pictures, etc., 
and the children should make collections of materials, with prices, 
learning the relative prices and values of different fabrics. Or the 
study may be approached through the industries in the constructive 
work of weaving. The work may be correlated with the other work 
in the grades by the raising of flax and cotton in connection with nature 
study. 

The problem of how the work should be presented in the elementary 
schools rests after all with the individual school, but if the teacher 
knows the content of her subject the application can be made as best 
suits her particular needs. In the high school, the work in dyeing 
and tesUng materials may form part of the chemistry course; but in 
whatever way the work is given, a thorough knowledge of materials 
should form a basis for all the work in sewing, dress-making and mil- 
linery. In dress-making, the selection of material is fundamental and 
vital. Judgment is required to select material that will have the best 
wearing qualities, fastest dyes, and be best adapted to the needs of 
the purchaser. In wash goods, comparative experiments in shrinking, 
fastness of color, and exposure to the sun and light would be a great 
help to many who have Uttle money to spend. 



228 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

In the matter of dress trimmings, we find special need of teaching 
values in purchasing embroideries, laces and bands, so that the pur- 
chaser knows the wearing quahties of her goods and how to obtain the 
best results from the least expenditure of money. How dependent 
the student is on the knowledge of her teacher was impressed on my 
mind when visiting a large technical school in New York. The grad- 
uating class of girls from a very poor locality were making their dresses 
and while their stitches were fine and even, what of the materials ? 
Embroidery at $i . 75 a yard and lace at nearly the same price. From 
the general appearance of the students, I could only think that the 
money must have been expended at a cost of the necessities of life, 
not only for themselves but at great sacrifices made by their parents. 
Is there any practical or ethical value in such instruction, and was it 
not caused by the teacher's limited understanding of the scope of the 
subject ? 

A course in miUinery should include the study of velvet, silks and 
braids, the necessary tests for these materials, the renovating of mate- 
rial, and the removal of stains without injury to the fabric. Some work 
in weaving is often given, but the question of time always limits the 
work. 

No matter from what condition of life the student comes or what her 
future may be, she will be a spender of money as well as a producer. 
In order that she may save, we teach her to patch, darn, make dresses 
and hats at the least possible expense; but of what use is this if we 
do not teach her how to select and buy the material on which she 
works? Ready made clothing will consume much of her income; 
should there not be standards of judging this as well as the numerous 
other materials which must pass through her hands ? 

Shall we not then educate our students so that the term "practical" 
may mean something more than immediate? May not the larger 
view of the standards of living and the responsibiHty of the consumer 
be made as real and personal a part of the work as the immediate 
results which are achieved by the student? 



TEXTILE EXPERIMENTATION/ 
' Agnes Houston Craig. 

Director of Domestic Art, College of hidustrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

It is not the purpose of this paper to set forth the technique of tex- 
tile experimentation, but rather to suggest and discuss its significance 
and scope as pre-requisite to the highest accomplishment in all aggre- 
gated courses of household art, and as fundamental in the complicated 
problem of standardizing household economy. 

Before standardization can be achieved in the ultimate problem of 
the home, each factor involved must be recognized, and its relative 
significance determined. Up to the present time food analysis and 
preparation have been most intensively investigated by students of 
Home Economics, to the neglect of other essentials, but recently inher- 
ent merit has been establishing the just claim of the textile interest 
with its composite inheritance of historic, scientific, aesthetic, economic, 
practical, and ethical values, until we are forced to acknowledge 
it, not as an adjunct but as fundamental to the Home Economics 
superstructure we are struggling to erect. 

Concerning the use of the income, there are two fundamental ideas 
that cannot be too much stressed. The spender must know how to 
choose with a view to securing the worth of her money in furnishings, 
equipment, and supplies; and she must be able to recognize the causes 
and avenues of waste. The reahzation of these conditions depends 
on first, the exercise of scientific judgment in determining the aopro- 
priateness, aesthetic value, and durability of the article to be selected; 
and secondly, the practice of scientific management in its use and 
care, based on well organized information and established method as 
a means of controlling waste of money, nervous and muscular energy, 
time, and commodities. 

It is not an exaggeration to state that perhaps the greatest source 
of waste attributable to one cause may be found in the lack of scien- 

'Presented at the St. Louis meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, December igio. 

229 



230 The Journal of Home Economics I June 

tific judgment displayed in the purchase, use, and preservation of 
various kinds of textiles used for house furnishing and clothing. Yet 
a logically established knowledge of certain artistic, scientific, and eco- 
nomic laws, in the minds of consumers, would soon revolutionize the 
production and consumption of textile fabrics. 

Through personal experimentation and as a result of observation 
relative to general methods used in the teaching of that group of tex- 
tile subjects commonly classed under domestic art, I do not hesitate 
to declare that in the majority of cases it is being taught in a mechan- 
ical, amateurish, and uneducational manner. It is the old story of 
the cart being put before the horse, resulting in the prevailing condi- 
tion that too much time is wastefuUy expended on the technique of 
sewing, chiefly because the average student is forced to attempt 
expression before she has acquired fundamental and inspirational 
knowledge. After all, efficiency through mental development is para- 
mount, and technical skill should be a result rather than a process of 
instruction. A broad and general knowledge such as develops a 
critical and receptive aptitude for the science or art in hand should 
precede or at least parallel training in technical proficiency. 

Textile study should be approached historically. 

One of the surest methods of arousing interest in any specific sub- 
ject is by presenting historical facts closely related to it. Human 
history is the record of the development of the inventive faculty, and 
the history of invention is the history of intellectual evolution. In 
this evolution textile fabrics have been constantly and closely identi- 
fied with both the origin and the development of mechanical inven- 
tion until today they constitute a vital economic factor in many of 
the modern problems affecting the cost of living. 

With this historic setting the scientific content of textile study offers 
a rich field for experimentation. 

Not long ago I had the pleasure of reading an interesting outline of 
chemistry courses and their relation to food investigation in connec- 
tion with Home Economics as it is taught in a well known institution. 
The writer made the following statement:^ 

All students of Home Economics who are candidates for degrees take the course 
in general inorganic chemistry . . Those who have proved themselves capa- 

ble of winning their way in science and who show an interest in scientific things 
are encouraged to make the best of their capabilities in an extended study of chem- 

*/. Home Economics. 2 (1910), No. 4, p. 399. 



1 9 1 1 ] Textile Experimentation 231 

istry (relating to food investigation). Those who have not shown such interest 
but who have satisfied the requirements in chemistry for the first year pursue work 
in decoration, design, sewing, and similar subjects. 

It is this very attitude toward that body of subject matter embodied 
in textile art that forces me to take issue with such a statement. Dis- 
tinguished work in this tjpe of "decoration, design, sewing, and sim- 
ilar subjects" depends quite as much upon a thorough basic prepara- 
tion in chemistry, physics, and the biological sciences as does the 
subject matter of domestic science, so that educators interested in 
the problem of the standardization of the home are working in vain 
for satisfactory results so long as they ignore this phase of house- 
hold economy. 

It is not only the tendency of incapable students to elect 
domestic art because of the prevailing impression that scholarship 
is non-essential to it, but teachers who should know better encour- 
age them to do so. So long as this attitude is countenanced and 
practiced, mediocre results will cause school boards to continue 
voting this phase of Home Economics a failure. 

In deaUng with students taking this group of industrial courses, 
I find them particularly deficient along the following lines: 

(i) They lack the power of concentration; (2) logical thinking is 
unknown to them, because their reasoning powers have not been prop- 
erly trained; (3) they are barren of ideas and have no conception of 
how independently to attack a problem. 

With such a lack of the essentials to expression in any form, how can 
we expect reactions in the form of technical proficiency? As reme- 
dial to this condition, every student of Home Economics should have 
in connection with textile work, foundation work in inorganic chemis- 
try', organic chemistry, physics, and biology, at least for the training 
they give in estabUshing habits of accurate observation and of inde- 
pendent and logical thinking under critical observation and because 
of the many close relationships of these subjects to the production and 
practical ever>'-day use of textiles in the home, in the arts, and in 
manufactures. 

In the biological field elementary botany may be followed by courses 
many phases of which are closely identified with textile interests, 
such as the following: 

(i) Economic Botany: — Dealing with commercially important 
plant products and their utilization in various industries, and with 
the laws determining their distribution in culture. 



232 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

(2) Bacteriology: — In its relation to industry, morphology, tax- 
onomy, physiology of bacteria, bacteriological analysis, etc. 

(3) Physiology, Hygiene, Pathology: — Considering the relation 
of clothing to the structure and functioning of the human body, 
their detrimental or favorable relation to circulation, respiration, 
preservation of animal heat, absorption, secretions, excretions, nerv- 
ous energy, skin ventilation, infection, and disinfection. 

This class of knowledge will establish a reliable basis for scientific 
judgment concerning (i) general health requirements and conditions; 
(2) problems of pathological sanitation; (3) thermic properties of 
clothing; (4) the infection and sterilization of clothing and textile 
furnishings; (5) clothing as a factor in producing fatigue, through 
(a) weight, (b) restricting skin ventilation and circulation, and 
(c) color psychology; and (6) relation of fibres and texture to regula- 
tion of bodily temperature, suitable cold weather fabrics, suitable 
warm weather fabrics, and basing the selection of clothing on the 
requirements of age, occupation, and condirion of health. 

The physical sciences also offer a wide department of practical 
investigation that will be of value in determining fibre characteris- 
tics, chemical reactions, and the best methods of treatment where 
fabrics are subjected to such conditions as dyeing, laundering, and 
dry cleaning. 

In chemistry stress may be put on: 

(i) Agricultural and commercial phases. 

(2) Qualitative analysis, including fibre tests, determination of 
comparative characteristics, identification of adulterations, sizings, 
mordants, etc. 

(3) Quantitative analysis of different types of fibres, mixed fab- 
rics, shrinkage of different varieties, tests for tensile strength, moisture 
in raw and manufactured fibres, relative capacity of fibres for holding 
dyes. 

One of the most valuable phases of the chemical study of textiles 
is that pertaining to dye-stuffs. In laundering, which is unquestion- 
ably a textile subject, such fundamental chemical knowledge would 
greatly modify one of the most alarming forms of waste in the house- 
hold. Under this head would be considered among other things, the 
following: 

(i) Bleaching agents, soaps, oils, mordants, and typical cleansing 
processes with reference to their effect on the various classes of fibres 
and dyes. 



igii] Textile Experimentation 233 

(2) Dye stuffs: — raw pigment and color harmony, classes of dyes, 
susceptibility of fibres to absorb color; solubility; reaction with alka- 
lis, acids, metalHc salts, and tannin reagents; chemical reaction of 
dyestuffs on physical structure of fibres; colorimetric experiments; etc. 

In physics special stress should be put on the study of heat radia- 
tion and light. The physics of color is most important and in view 
of the very interesting investigations that are being carried on in the 
general subject of color too thorough ground work cannot be estab- 
lished. 

This subject of color naturally suggests the next phase of our general 
topic, namely, the aesthetic consideration in textile study. Within 
this field there are two essentials that cannot be strongly enough 
emphasized as significant factors of household art and which are also 
important features of economy. They are most essential and indis- 
pensable requisites to success in textile work. I refer to the follow- 
ing: 

(i) Proficiency in free hand drawing and a working knowledge of 
the principles of design. 

(a) All constructive e.xpression, whether it be literary, musical, 
dramatic, architectural, pictorial, landscape gardening, costumic, 
etc., should conform to the three principles of order and beauty, viz. 
harmony, balance, and rhythm. 

(b) In connection with these principles there are certain laws of 
composition that should be appreciated and to some extent under- 
stood by the student before serious constructive expression is 
attempted. These are the laws of appropriateness, principality, 
subordination, repetition, variety, and unity. 

(2) There should also be thorough training in the art of color rel- 
ative to the meaning of hue, value, chroma, contrast, harmony, and 
texture; ability to show some skill in mixing and combining colors; 
familiarity with the simple principles of the aesthetic theory in its 
relation to form and color; and the psychological significance of 
rhythm, color, tonal fusion, and symmetry. 

In connection with this art study the previous parallel work in 
physics and chemistry will be invaluable. 

Although many of us are accustomed to thinking of the aesthetic 
as non-essential to our everyday activities, brief study and investi- 
gation will soon prove that it is an important economic element. 
Economy value should be the basic idea of all these interests so that 
practical economy may be rationally applied to all these kinds of 
home furnishing, clothing and management. 



234 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

In connection with this economic study textile fabrics should be 
investigated as a feature of political economy. Relative to the supply 
of raw materials, their manufacture, and the labor problems involved, 
this subject occupies an important place in the field of production. 
From its more general consideration in political economy, consumption 
as it is related to the department of Home Economics will furnish a 
fruitful field for study and experiment in the following interests: — 

(i) Money economy in connection with the individual income. In 
this connection consideration would be given to original cost of fabrics; 
relative differences in cost depending on comparative durabihty of the 
fabrics themselves, and of home made versus ready made furnishings 
and clothing; money involved in maintenance as it is affected by method 
or lack of method in management. 

(2) Nervous and muscular energy as they are affected by clothing 
and surroundings and by management. 

(3) Time economy in classroom and home activities. 

(4) Economy in the use of commodities as affected by scientific 
judgment in selection, appropriate use, and preservation, through 
scientifically formulated processes of laundering, bleaching, dyeing, 
dry cleaning, etc. 

With careful and logically arranged preparation in the foregoing 
fields of speciahzed knowledge which may and should be closely cor- 
related, the practical technical or constructive work would not 
constitute the most important part of the industrial courses as it 
undoubtedly does in too many institutions, but would teach the best 
methods of construction so that students may express correctly orig- 
inal ideas resulting from purposeful thought that is firmly based on 
related and inspirational knowledge. 

Within this department there should be sufficient experimental 
work with the manufacture of fabrics to establish expertness in the 
identification of standard materials. This may include microscopic 
examination of fabrics and constructive work that will result in famil- 
iarity with (a) weave formations and structure based on warp and woof ; 
(b) the classification of weaves, derivative weaves, and weave combina- 
tions; (c) texture as modified by weave and color; (d) standard weaves 
and materials; (e) steps and processes in the manufacture of cotton, 
linen, wool and silk; (f) finishing processes; and (g) dyeing. There 
should also be considered the mechanics of construction, this including 
(a) hand sewing, plain and decorative; (b) machine sewing; (c) spin- 
ning and weaving; and (d) practical shopping. 



iQii] Textile Experimentation 235 

The study of textiles in some such comprehensive and scientific 
method would undoubtedly dignify the course in domestic or house- 
hold art. It would also develop a vital and practical field of research 
in physics, chemistry, and biology, and create the demand for a more 
definite standard in textile fabrics. 

Each state university should establish and maintain a textile 
experimental station and practical demonstrations of the various 
phases of textiles should constitute an important department in all 
extension courses of Home Economics. At the same time textile man- 
ufacture should be legislated on just as has been food manufacture. 

With regulating measures for the manufacturers, and practical 
education for the consumers. Professor Commons' score card may be 
used not only as a standardizer of the house, but also developed fur- 
ther and adapted to the measuring and grading of general home fur- 
nishings, textile equipment, and clothing. The ethical value of such 
training woidd be demonstrated through the popular appreciation of 
the principles of artistic expression in its relation to common things; 
through the popular exercise of scientific judgment in the expenditure 
of income for textiles and through the adoption of scientific method in 
management which would contribute much toward the elimination of 
waste, and mean greater average eflSciency and resourcefulness. 

Surely definite accompHshment in these fundamental problems will 
contribute much toward that consummation so much desired — the 
standardization of Home Economics. 



SOME TEXTILE TESTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
CHILD WELFARE EXHIBIT.^ 

Grace Denny. 

A Child Welfare Exhibit was held in New York City during January, 
iQii. Its purpose as stated by the committee was to "demonstrate 
the econom.y of concentrating efforts for human betterment upon the 
children of today." There were departments relating to (i) the health 
of children, (2) their recreational life, (3) their vocational adjustment, 
(4) their civic training, (5) their preparation for home making, and (6) 
their moral and spiritual development. 

The relation of textiles to this great philanthropic movement may 
not at once be apparent. The subject has, however, a close connection 
with two of the important divisions — those of health and "homes." 
The latter includes housing, food, and clothing. It was the purpose of 
the committee to represent graphically the wise expenditure of the 
income of the typical family, basing the estimates upon More's 
WorJdng Man's Budgets, and Chapin's Standards of Li\'ing. A family 
of five with $Soo per year was chosen. Of this amount, but Si 00 was 
allotted for all the clothing for one year. The father's portion was 
$T,T,, the mother's $25, and the three children, all under working age of 
whom the eldest is a boy, had to be clothed summer and winter for 
$42. Clothing for the children at different ages was shown, and as 
far as practicable, comparisons of ready-made garments attempted 
with those which could be made at home. Reasons for the choice of 
certain materials were pointed out. Pamphlets for free distribution 
gave simple and practical hints on how to shop, how to care for cloth- 
ing, and why it pays to do so, with some essential facts on the hygiene 
of clothing and a few suggestions as to good taste in dress. 

As a student of textiles in Teachers College, I was asked to test a 
number of fabrics from which selections were to be made for the clothing 

'Presented at the St. Louis meeting of the American Home Econom.ics Asso- 
ciation, December 30, 1910. The work reported was carried on at Teachers 
College, Columbia University. 

236 



igii] Some Textile Tests 237 

exhibit. The results of these investigations show a ver>' limited por- 
tion of the field in textile analysis. In fact onH a few inexpensive 
mateiials are represented in this group. Yet it furnishes an illustra- 
tion of the practical value of textile study. The final selection of 
materials was not based upon the results of chemical tests alone, but 
included laundry and weathering experiments and certain physical 
tests, such as the determination of tensile strength in cottons. My 
work was done under the direction of Dr. H. T. Vulte, Professor of 
Household Chemistry, and with the help of Miss Ellen Beers of that 
department. 

An assortment of samples from many so-called "woolen" ma- 
terials was obtained by the textile committee from various places 
in New York City. Some of these were found on the push-carts in 
Orchard Street on the lower East Side; others at large and reputable 
but moderate-priced stores. The widths varied widely but the average 
cost was 50 cents per yard. The purpose of making chemical and 
microscopic tests on these m.aterials was to find out first, the percent- 
age of wool present; second, the way the cotton and wool were inter- 
woven; and third, the quahty of wool used. 

The determination of cotton in the wool samples was made in the fol- 
lowing way : Two pieces of equal size were taken to show a comparison 
of the original sample and the same after the wool had been removed. 
In case the material was found to be all wool, there was, of course, no 
residue. One of the samples was accurately weighed and then boiled 
in a 5 percent solution of caustic potash for 15 minutes (which destroys 
all the wool) . It was then rinsed in acidulated water, dried, reweighed, 
and the percentage of wool determ.ined (allowing for a 5 per cent loss 
in the weight of cotton due to the slight action of the caustic potash on 
the cotton fabric). 

The relation of cotton to wool in the cloth is often shown plainly by 
the form in which the cotton is left. If a piece of woven fabric remains, 
we know that either wool was mixed with the cotton in the yarn before 
weaving, or was blown into the cloth mechanically during the felting 
process and finished over to give the appearance of woolen material. 
Particles of wool used in this way are called "flocks" and, in thecourse 
of time, wear off the surface leaving the cotton background. The cheap 
eiderdowns represent a class of materials so poorly made that the wool 
wears off the surface in the same way. The cotton threads are some- 
times left in a mass, showing that wool yarn was used only for the woof. 



238 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

A sample of shepherd's check showed a cotton warp with every other 
check filled by cotton woof, thus practically but one-third wool. 

These proofs were not accepted, however, as conclusive concerning 
the arrangement of cotton and wool. A microscopic examination was 
made of warp and woof threads in every instance to identify the fibres 
present. In addition to this an attractive color test was used on the 
white flannels. Fuchsin dye turns wool a deep pink, leaving the 
cotton white or nearly so. This is most effective when used on flannel 
having a cotton warp with wool filling. 

The microscope made the most interesting revelations as to the 
ingredients in these materials. None contained first-class wool. 
Some showed good fibres mixed with inferior grades. The "all wool" 
pieces were made chiefly from shoddy or regenerated wool. This 
was indicated by the various sizes and grades of fibres, their tendency 
to curl, like cotton, and the inequality in dyeing. Many distorted 
or diseased fibres were noted and also those injured by extreme heat 
and severe treatment. 

A number of cotton fabrics were tested as to the amount of finish 
or dressing present. Each piece was boiled for 15 minutes in a 5 
per cent solution of oxalic acid, thoroughly washed and dried. 
Although this is not a laundry test, the results show very plainly the 
relative fastness of the dyes in ginghams, and something as to the 
wearing quality of the different materials. The purpose of the test is, 
of course, to determine how much of the weight and appearance of 
the fabric is due to finishing processes and how it will look when this 
effect has been destroyed by repeated washings and w'ear. A compari- 
son of the original samples with those which have been "boiled out" 
indicates that those fabrics containing a large amount of stiffening and 
those having a finish applied after wearing, as the crepe effect on cheap 
cottons, do not have the body or firmness after the finish has been 
removed that one might expect. 

In general the results of this examination of materials show that in 
buying dress goods for 50 cents per yard, one cannot have all wool or 
even good wool mixed with cotton. Something must be sacrificed. 
The textile committee found that it was a case of choosing "the lesser 
evil." The experiments also reveal something of the complexity of the 
textile problem. The variety of finishes employed on all kinds of 
cloth are deceiving even to one who has been studying the subject 
seriously. It is very difficult to make general conclusions until a 



iQii] Some Textile Tests 239 

greater body of information has been accumulated. Comparatively 
little has been done so far in this field. SuflScient results have been 
obtained, however, to demonstrate the need for thorough scientific 
investigation of the subject which shall lead ultimately to the establish- 
ment of certain textile standards in this country. 



TEXTILE TESTING LABORATORY FOR THE UNITED 
STATES ARMY AT GOVERNOR'S ISLAND, N. Y/ 

Florence Winchell. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Probably few of us have ever realized how much of the beauty of a 
marching army is due to the uniforms. For every man to be dressed 
identically seems at first thought to be a simple matter, but when one 
considers that some men's suits may have seen months of hard wear and 
others be practically new, yet the whole regiment still presents a single 
color, he realizes that the clever selection of materials is the secret of 
the uniform. 

Hundreds of thousands of hats, overcoats, worksuits, suits of under- 
wear, woolen and cotton socks, army blankets, all sorts of insignia 
for the officers of many ranks, tents, iron beds, mattresses, mosquito 
bars, and hosts of other essentials are supplied by the government for 
the use of the standing army. One phase of the problem is the need for 
absolute uniformity throughout the country. 

This means clever and intelligent buying. The materials must be 
of very good quality and the tailoring well done. The suits supplied 
in California must be exactly like those for Florida. Old uniforms must 
present the same general appearance as new. Such buying cannot be 
done haphazard. 

This exactness in uniforms demands that a standard for each arti- 
cle be established and that this standard be of such a grade that 
hard service and exposure to all sorts of weather will not change its 
appearance. The government has established centers for the drawing 
up of these many standards and the close examination of the materials 
supplied by the manufacturers. 

For everything supplied to the army, specifications are drawn up 
by direction of the quartermaster-general, who is in charge of these 

'Presented at the St. Louis Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 1910. 

240 



igii] Textile Testing Laboratory for U. S. Army 241 

stations. Every shipment received from the wholesaler must conform 
to these specifications. When any possible improvement is discovered, 
any material a little better suited to the needs, new specifications are 
drawn up and the old discarded. 

On Governor's Island, just ten minutes' trip across the river from 
South Ferry, New York City, the government maintains a warehouse 
(or the storage of army uniforms. Under the same roof is a station for 
testing the various materials supplied by the wholesale firms foi over- 
coats and linings, work blouses and linings, work trousers, dress coats 
and linings, dress trousers and army blankets. Other mateiials are 
tested at other stations. 

To follow one garment through its respective processes is the sim- 
plest way to imderstand how the uniforms are prepared for delivery. 
Let us take the olive drab kersey work blouse as an example. 

A piece of kerse> is selected. This must be heavy enough for 
warmth, not too hot nor too heav> to carry on the march, of such a 
quality of worsted that it will keep its shape and endure hard service, 
and must be so dyed that thousands of yards can be supplied without 
variation and that exposure to sun, rain, etc., will not change its tone. 
It must be unchanged by perspiration and washable in soap and water. 
The linings must be as carefully chosen, with mohair serge for the body 
part and silesia for the sleeves. 

When such materials are found, the cut of the blouse must be decided 
upon. After the garment is well tailored according to the selected 
style, if it is satisfactory in all respects it may be used as a model. 

Manufacturers soliciting contracts for the manufacture of the mate- 
rial are supplied w^th samples of the selected standard of kersey. 
They are also given copies of the specifications, to which this kersey 
istoconform. Once a manufacturer has taken a contract to supply such 
a quality of kersey, the station sends a representative to the mill to 
keep track of the contract. It is his duty to supply the contracting 
oflBcer at the station with samples of the wool used in warp and filling 
in the clean state and also after mixed to the proper shade, as well as 
spun yarn for both warp and woof. These must be submitted with the 
first shipment of goods and with each 5000 yards following. 

When the bolts of goods are delivered to the station they are exam- 
ined according to the specifications, each bolt is weighed, measured 
as to the number of yards on the bolt, width of material, and the num- 
ber of warp and woof threads to the inch. From each bolt a sample is 



242 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

cut. This is used for the chemical tests and tests for tensile strength 
and weathering. 

The chemical tests are solely for dye. Lactic acid and citric acid 
tests are used to test the dye for perspiration. To test for weathering, 
the sample is exposed flat on a roof for thirty days. The change should 
be practically imperceptible. 

The dynamometer used for the strength test hangs upon the wall. 
Its two steel jaws which hold the sample in place are set exactly one 
inch apart. In testing the warp threads the sample is placed with the 
jaws set precisely parallel to the woof threads. The jaws are then 
slowly and steadily drawn apart by the turning of the wheel. The 
breaking point of the warp threads is automatically registered in pounds. 
The woof threads are tested in the same way. The specifications for 
this kersey state that the breaking point of both sets of threads should 
be at least 70 pounds. 

Any requirements not actually mentioned in the specifications are 
to be taken from the standard sample. Materials supplied by the 
manufacturer are expected to fill all requirements of the specifications. 
Usually, these bolts of cloth are very attractive, so perfect in every 
respect, with no creases or folds, no spots of dye, no imperfections of 
weave. When materials are below standard the shipment is rejected. 
Such rejected shipments are sold for other uses. We should probably 
feel fortunate if we should buy them for they are probably much above 
those ordinarily supplied to us by a retailer. 

The government does not maintain its own tailoring establishments, 
but supplies the contracting tailors with models and patterns for the 
desired lot. An ofl&cer usually takes the necessary materials to his 
own tailor but the enlisted men, unless of very unusual build, can be 
well fitted from stock since there are thirty -two different sizes and pro- 
portions from which to select. The tailored garments are again re- 
turned to this same station on Governor's Island. Here each garment 
is carefully examined for possible defects and then stored away in the 
warehouse, ready for shipment when needed. 

Certainly no details are neglected in securing the most attractive 
and durable garments for the use of the United States arniy. The 
unscrupulous or indifferent wholesaler will always find his goods 
returned. He can supply the less intelligent consumer. 



THE VALUE OF A COURSE IN HISTORIC COSTUME/ 

Jane Fales. 

Professor of Textiles and Clothing, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

During all the years since household arts has been a part of our sys- 
tem of education, dressmaking has been generally conceded to be the 
most important technical subject in the domestic art course; yet its 
"art side" has been practically overlooked, or at best only slightly 
touched upon. If students of dressmaking have been taught drafting 
to measures, cutting, fitting, and finishing, the teacher has considered 
her duty to them done; and a dress might be adjudged technically 
satisfactory if these details were perfectly worked out, although appro- 
priateness or artistic design were wholly lacking. A view at once 
broader educationally and more practical would demand, as a result, 
training in domestic art products which show not only technical per- 
fection but also harmony in purpose and artistic design. 

Recent unsuccessful attempts at originating or making fashions 
in America which could be called American, and the feeling of nearly 
all good dressmakers against the movement as shown by their con- 
tinued use of designs made in Paris, should lead teachers vitally inter- 
ested in improving methods and maintaining high standards to study 
the reasons for this and to answer two questions: (i) Why is the best 
dressmaking done in Paris? (2) What can they as teachers do to make 
American dressmakers more resourceful and artistically discrimi- 
nating? 

Even the slightest investigation shows that hand in hand with the 
cutting, fitting, and finishing of a costume must go two other requisites 
to produce what would be considered in Paris a successful result. 
These are first, a feeling for and knowledge of artistic design in dress, 
and second, originality. 

The first includes a working knowledge of color-color combination, 
and its effect on the wearer; a consideration of line in relation to the 
figure, and the ways in which, by careful consideration of line and pro- 

' Presented at the St. Louis meeting of the American Home Economic 
Association, December, 1910. 

243 



244 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

portion, one point may be accentuated and another concealed. All 
this can be achieved b}' courses in costume design, carried on in close 
connection with the dressmaking work. The interest shown in this 
appeal to artistic feeling, and the immediate response from the majority 
of the students, quickly proves the value of such courses. 

The second necessary adjunct, which I have called originality, is 
far more difi5cult to achieve, and yet is of as great importance. The 
saying of a famous Frenchwoman is significant — "There is nothing 
new in this world but that which has grown old enough," and we must 
get the inspiration for our needed originality by studying not present 
day costume but that of bygone centuries. In America we have no 
past. Centuries of time, great revenues, and leisure for the apprecia- 
tion of artistic pursuits, we have yet to attain, and while attaining 
we must look to other countries for those things which are "old 
enough." 

Fortunately it is not necessary to study costumes of all countries, 
but only those which are best suited to our particular needs and which 
best furnish inspiration and stimulus because of their artistic merit. 
With limited time — and time is always limited in a college course where 
the list of requirements is fairly large, and the electives offered allur- 
ing — it seems best at present to confine such a course to a rather care- 
ful survey of the dress of the following nations: (i) Ancient Egypt, 
covering its three important dynasties; (2) Greece, when the wonder- 
ful art of that country was at its highest; (3) Rome, which shows 
chiefly a modification and degeneration of the Greek costume; (4) 
Ancient Gaul; (5) the Franks (these last three are important because 
from them came the elements out of which grew the beginnings of 
French costume); and (6) Modern France, from Merovingian days to 
the final establishment of the French Republic. 

The costumes of these nations offer a great variety of designs, im- 
portant for different purposes, but all of distinct value. For instance, 
from the study of Egyptian costume we get suggestions regarding 
richness of color and great variety in conventional design, especially 
useful in dress decoration; from the Grecian, grace and simplicity of 
line; while from the French we get more for costume than from any 
other country. Some periods are of greater importance than others. 
During the Renaissance the French revived the art of the classic age, 
selecting what was best and adapting it to their needs. Later they 
show us combinations and adaptations not only from Greece and Egypt 



igii] A Course in Historic Costume 245 

but from various other countries with which they came into political 
or social contact. Today the libraries of Paris contain wonderful 
collections of costume illustrations, old prints, old photographs, and 
old fashion sheets. These are for the use of the interested public, 
and to learn how greatly their value is appreciated, one has but to 
watch the designers of the great Paris houses constantly studying them 
with as much care and interest as the student of English literature gives 
to Chaucer or Browning. 

From this careful study of bygone fashions our present-day styles 
are evolved. Costumes are generally not adopted as a whole, but 
adapted in part by designers skilled by constant practice in this work. 
Nothing is more interesting than to trace modern fashions back to the 
days of ancient Egypt, to the Middle Ages or to the Renaissance. 

There is indeed "nothing new," and for the seeker there lies a vast 
field of resources, which being discovered add immeasurably to the 
capability of all who wish neither to study nor to teach dressmaking 
along the old lines, so long accepted and so severely critised. 

How best to place at the disposal of the greatest number these 
resources is the present problem. A study of historic costume is 
not a simple matter, but requires patient research, and many hours 
spent in careful selection in order to get a sufficiently wide range of 
important and practical information. The sources of information 
are somewhat limited, and at present no simple text book exists. 
Histories of the ancient Egyptians, of the Greeks, of the Romans, of 
the Gauls and Franks must be carefully read, because many contain 
valuable hints or descriptions of costumes. Old engravings must be 
sought and studied; fashion sheets, which did not appear with any 
regularity until after the French Revolution, must be collected and 
examined. Various histories of costume must be read and compared. 
The historical text books are usually easy of access in public libraries; 
engravings and fashion sheets are expensive and hard to acquire, especi- 
ally in America; and while there are many reference books, those of 
real value, such as Racinet's Le Costume Historique, are in French, 
with the exception of some that deal exclusively with English and 
American costume, and consequently are of little use to the average 
student of dressmaking. But the teacher who appeciates the value of 
this study, and who recognizes its significance in the development of 
the American dressmaking of the future, will find the way in spite of 
limitations and difficulties. 



ART THE FOUNDATION OF DOMESTIC ART/ 
LuA R. Crawford. 

Teacher of Art, Cleveland Technical High School. 

All human beings exist both physically and spiritually. Uncivil- 
ized man demands more physically than he does spiritually. As he 
advances he asks more for the spirit. Civilized man not only strives 
for that which will keep the spark of life in his body but seeks for 
something that satisfies his soul. 

Every civilized person has a longing for the beautiful, whether that 
beautiful be expressed as a kind act, a sunset, a couplet in verse, a 
song, a picture, a charming face, a harmoniously planned room, or a 
lovely bit of handiwork. 

Beauty is a thing of the soul. Whenever an individual has produced 
a beautiful thing there has been growth and appreciation in his soul — 
and this is of infinitely more value to him than had he produced some- 
thing which had no other excuse for being than that it served some 
necessary physical need. Kenyon Cox says, "We have come back to the 
old-time notion that one of the finest things art can do is to make some 
useful thing beautiful." Complex life demands many implements. If 
we build these implements of life so that they are beautiful as well as use- 
ful we have made them twice as valuable. The beautiful thing pro- 
duced is the expression of the individual and whether the expression 
be conscious or not it has entered the realm of art. 

We, who are interested in technical education, hope much for our 
boys and girls when we have brought them to the point where they 
can independently build pieces of furniture which will be strong and 
hold together — can make dresses that answer the purpose of clothing 
or cook dinners that satisfy hunger — but we will have done far more 
when we have led them to do all of these things as the expression of 
the individual in the most beautiful of ways. 

1 Presented at a joint meeting of the Household Axt.s Section of the North-Eastern 
Ohio Teachers' Association and the Ohio Chapter of the American Home Economics 
Association, Cleveland, O., Feb. lo, 191 1. 

246 



igii] Art and Domestic Art 247 

This year a new course in art is being worked out here in the Cleve- 
land Technical High School which correlates art and sewing (beauty 
and use) . The majority of girls who come to this high school come 
from the average home. It is most probable that they will eventually 
marry and become home-makers. I believe that when in any way 
we can help these girls to live more sane, clean, and beautiful lives in 
their homes we have done just so much for the commonwealth. 

Ever}' girl ought to have a training in the principles of drawing 
if for no other reason than a cultural one. She ought to be able to 
draw and design and construct in a simple way. The principles so 
learned should be applied to problems in real life. The problems we 
are just now most interested in are those of domestic art which I make 
include sewing and house decoration and planning. 

Along with the ability of the girl to draw and to design in connec- 
tion with her domestic art, I place the ability to know and appreciate 
good things, those well and beautifully designed, for in all probability 
she will have as much, if not more, opportunity to exercise her judgment 
in the selection of wearing apparel and articles for the home, than in 
their actual designing. 

The course as planned covers two years but should in my opinion 
be of four years' length. The first year of school, four periods a week 
(each period three quarters of an hour long) are allowed for sewing 
and six periods for the art. The reverse is allowed the second year. 

As I have said before, we carry the training in pure art along with 
the training in art as applied to domestic art, and we hope to make 
the first of vital importance to the second. 

The school year is divided into three quarters. The first quarter 
of the first year we begin with nature drawing, principally outline work. 
Most stress is laid on detail plant drawing because it is from the 
detail work that we get units of design which form the basis 
of the design work throughout the year. Here, it seems to me, we 
can lay the foundation for appreciation of beautiful lines which cer- 
tainly has plenty of application later in the designing of dresses. Here 
also, we study color — its composition and harmony. From the fall 
plants we mal e color notes which can be used as color schemes later 
in the work of art and sewing. 

The first problem of domestic art with which we directly deal is the 
design for the stitching of the holder. 

Since the holder must be stitched why not have it done in a beau- 



248 The Journal of Home Economics [J une 

tif ul way rather than otherwise? Why can we not learn the principles 
of good proportion in the breaking up of a square space as well here 
as anywhere? As the holder has a very definite use in the cooking 
room, is made in the sewing room, and designed in the art room, the 
work in three departments is connected. This same problem might 
be carried out further in other forms of domestic art, such as the plan- 
ning of spaces in plaids, the arrangement of panels in a door, and the 
breaking up of a window space with panes of glass. 

A sewing bag is next planned. This offers an opportunity for 
using our previously worked-out color schemes in the selection of ma- 
terials for our bag. We construct mechanically a well proportioned 
ellipse for the base, plan the height of the bag and the proportion of 
the heading to the main portion of the bag. 

The first year of sewing involves for the greater portion of the time 
the making of underwear. At the end of the first quarter the girls 
begin underwear designing. The first problemi is the designing of 
the ruffle for the underdrawers. The width of the ruffle, 4 or 4^ inches 
finished, is given them as is also the lace width. Either ^ inch or f 
inch lace is allowed. We precede the work with a talk about laces — 
their kind, pattern, texture, wearing qualities, and suitableness to the 
garment they are to be used upon. The problem for the girls is first 
to select a suitable lace, and then to divide up the width of the ruffle 
into spaces that are properly proportioned one to the other. A thing 
is never beautiful unless it is so designed that it fits the service for which 
it is to be used. So we talk about where the decoration on the ruffle 
ought to be in order that the shirring at the top is not interfered with 
by its decoration. We also try to have our lace width, hem width, 
tuck width, width between tucks, and width of plain portion in the 
ruffle adjusted in an interesting way. I want the girls to feel the dif- 
ference in the planning of tucks to form a cluster from tucks that are 
simply scattered over a surface. 

The planning of the ruffle is followed by free-hand sketching of a 
pair of drawers. Not only is this for training in free-hand drawing 
but also for the purpose of getting into the child's mind the general 
form of the object. After this they make a small drawing of their 
own drawers, endeavoring to express their correct proportions. 

This work it seems to me has great value. If we had more time I 
would like the girls to do considerable free-hand sketching of under- 
wear and simple clothes on the black board as a means of expressing 



191 1] Art and Domestic Art 249 

quickly any ideas of such things they might wish to use in their work. 
The good designers in the French dressmaking shops have enough 
knowledge and skill in the drawing of dresses so that they can sit down 
and sketch for prospective customers clothes that will become them. 
In the same manner the good architect makes his perspective sketch 
of the house he has drawn the plans for. The psychologist claims a 
person never knows a thing definitely until he can express it in words. 
We think the child never knows how a garment will look until she has 
made a perspective sketch of it. 

In the second quarter of the first year we begin the drawing of still 
life with charcoal. We study form, light and darkness, shade and 
shadow, perspective. This ought to form a good beginning for the 
sketching of the human figures which comes in the second year and is 
so necessary to the understanding of dress designing. 

We commence the latter part of the second quarter to design for 
the corset cover. We make a drawing which is comparable to the me- 
chanical drawing of the boys. On the drawing of the actual pattern cut 
according to the bust measure of each individual girl, she plans the divi- 
sion of spaces across both the front and back of her corset cover. 

This is followed by drawing a corset cover on the form (the form 
three-quarters view) and then copying the corset cover drawings cut 
from the fashion magazine. In the drawing of the corset cover on the 
form we teach a little perspective of the figure and will lay a foundation 
for dress designing. We talk about the curves in waist lines — location 
of middle front on a figure, the curve at the top that fits over the 
shoulders and the ellipses of the arm hole. Copying from magazine 
drawings is valuable in several ways, particularly in that it acquaints 
the child with the technic of fashion plate drawings. She learns how 
tucks, shirring, stitching, etc., are expressed. 

The last part of the first year the girls design a bit of embroidery 
for the yoke of the nightgown. As this is a suitable problem to teach 
rhythm — the flowing in of one line into another — we make this such an 
exercise. 

The last problem in underwear is the petticoat. The girl first divides 
her whole skirt length into plain portion and flounce so each is propor- 
tionate to the other. After this the ruffle portion is broken up into 
spaces. 

In the second year, a little figure sketching is introduced, not so 
much for the art side as for the help in dress design. I give standing 



2^o The Journal of Home Economics U^ne 

poses three-quarters turned because I wish the girls to get used to the 
figure in that position. The greatest proportionof dresses aredesigned 

on the turned figure. j i • 4. „ 

The sewmg of the second year consists of a seven-gored skirt, a 

shirt waist, and two dresses-the first a simple gingham and the second 

a wool dress or a thin summer dress-depending on the season of the 

^'in all dress designing we use an outline drawing of a form suitable 
to the average high school girl, making sHght changes to fit various 
figures If we were working for figure drawing I would not think this 
an educational thing to do, but as dresses are our aim and the girls 
know so little about the human figure when they are ready to design 
their first dresses, I feel that the use of the under figure is perfectly 
legitimate. The girls design their dresses on rice paper, using this 
form underneath. If I had third and fourth year girls m art I should 
work them in to designing directly without this help. 

Before doing anything in dress planning the girls need to understand 
how to express the hang of skirts naturally, tucks and p eats in he 
skirt and waists, the fall of seams over the hips, the fit of yokes oyer the 
shoulders, roundness in dress, the appearance of the decoration on 
sleeves, etc. If the girl applies her knowledge of perspective obtamed 
in still-life drawing she will be much helped. 

Before commencing dress designing many things ought to be con- 
sidered such as color in dress for certain individuals, for certain places, 
Ind cer'tain occasions ; the influence of horizontal and J-t-1 Imes o^^^ 
thin and stout people; texture and design in dress goods; line m dress, 
and the combination of dress and trimming for harmony. 

We strive to have each girl have her own particular figure m view 
when designing her dress and selecting her material. 

Drerdesigning is accompanied by the copying of dresses from 
fash oT magazine's for the purpose of technic, and the dra.-ing of 
dTesses upon the form-this for acquamtance with the hne and hang 

''Next quarter we are to commence the designing of hats-this being 
the first'time millinery has been offered.^ The girls -^l^e given con- 
siderable work in the studying and planning of shapes of ^at - ^ th 
trimming to fit individual heads. The head and the hat must be con- 
sidered a unit and each hat suitable to the individual. 

Color schemes for hats will be worl ed out so that they will be m 



J 9 1 1 ] A nalysis of Blues 251 

harmony with the natural coloring of the giris, the clothes they will 
wear, and the occasions on which they are to be worn. 

This concludes the two years' work . If the course were of four years' 
length — as I think it ought to be — a larger part of the last two years 
ought to be spent on problems concerning the home. In fact it seems 
to me that it is more important that we have beautiful homes than that 
we wear beautiful clothes, for our homes are the foundation of the land. 

There is no reason why our high school girls should not know good 
design in dishes, silverware, table linens, furniture, wall paper, carpets, 
draperies, etc., or that they should not know how to put these things 
together according to the best principles of art to make beautiful 
room.s in which to live. 

There is no reason why they should not draw up house plans — should 
not know how the rooms ought to be arranged one with the other — 
or no reason why they should not know how to plan a beautiful 
exterior to the house. 

Thus we are working and will work with our girls here in the Tech- 
nical High School and I feel we are going to prepare them in some meas- 
ure, at least, to become good home makers and good home keepers. 

ANALYSIS OF BLUES.^ 
L. Ray Balderston and Matilda J. McKeown. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

In our study, the analysis of blues has been considered from the 
practical as well as the chemical side. Blues most often purchased 
by the housewife were bought. 

These blues were found to be of four types: Prussian, aniline, 
ultramarine and indigo. The liquid blues tested were all Prussian 
blues, while the ball or block blues were primarily ultram.arines. 

In analysis, the same amounts of blues were taken (i gm. of solid, 
10 cc. of liquid) and these were dissolved in 100 cc. of faucet water. 
The faucet water was used as the most practical side of the problem. 
After the blues were thoroughly dissolved in the water, the liquid 

1 Presented at the St. Loiiis meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
December 30, 1910. 



252 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

was filtered through balanced papers, all insoluble residue remaining 
on the paper. The filter papers were dried and the difference in weight 
represented the percentage of insoluble material or material not 
usable. 

A second measured quantity was also dissolved in faucet water and 
sodium hydroxide added to precipitate any iron present. The iron 
would show as a heavy reddish brown precipitate. The sodium hydrox- 
ide solution was filtered and the residue washed with dilute hydro- 
chloric acid (5 per cent). The iron was thus dissolved as a chloride 
leaving foreign material such as sand or clay in the filter paper. This 
test shows the percentage of foreign material, which is useless besides 
adding false weight. 

The test for iron was made to identify those blues containing some 
iron compound. This identification is valuable to show those blues 
which, if used with clothes improperly rinsed, are likely to result in 
spotting with iron. 

When the hydrochloric acid was added, hydrogen sulphid was given 
off in some cases, showing sodium sulphid to be present. This identi- 
fied all ultramarine blues. 

The solvent test was of interest from the chemical side in learning 
the chemical used to keep the blue in solution. In this test, the filtrate 
from the sodium hydroxide precipitation was treated with calcium 
chlorid plus acetic acid till acidified and ferric sulphate then added. 
If a jelly-like precipitate formed, oxalic acid was the solvent, but if 
the solution turned blue the solvent was potassium ferrocyanid. 

All data from experiments were carefully recorded. The results were 
kept to be used as an exhibit for the classes in laundering, housewifery, 
household chemistry, and household management. The exhibit con- 
sisted of the filter papers holding their various residues, mounted be- 
tween 5" watch glasses and sealed. 

Bottles of dilute blue solutions were added to show various tints and 
tones of blues. 

By way of making the exhibit complete, the original bottles, boxes, 
or cans, were placed in the exhibit case. 



ASPECTS OF ECONOMICS OF IMPORTANCE IN 
HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE. 

David Kinley. 

Professor of Economics, and Dean of Graduate School, University of Illinois. 

I have agreed to give you an informal talk upon what we have been 
trying to do at the University of Illinois. If I say anything that is 
worth saving it will be along the line of our experience and practice 
there rather than to outline a scheme more or less ideal. 

I have with me an outline of courses — not a paper, but merely 
an outline of courses as we have actually been giving them. 

In the early days I took occasion to speak with Miss Be\ier on this 
subject and urged that household economics as commonly taught 
occupied only a small portion of the field, and that many of its advo- 
cates had scarcely gotten a glimpse of the promised land of their 
subject. There is a large field in administration, as distinct from 
what is commonly spoken of as household economics. In order to 
get a comprehensive view of its possibilities we must take a study of 
the home in all its relations. To my mind the ordinary activities 
of the home — cooking, care of health, etc. — form an important part 
of the field but by no means the whole of the field. I think there is 
an administrative side as contrasted with the science side, and that 
this administrative side of the work has to do very largely vath. economics. 

The things that you want to know are, what we have been working 
at and trying to get started in our household science on the side of 
administration. In the first place, I believe the young women who 
are studying household science ought to take a course in general 
economics. I regard it as a necessary foundaton. This consists of 
the work outlined in the usual text books such as Fetter's, Seager's, 
and Ely's, in combination with collateral readings two or three times 
a week. This with us is the work of the first half of the year. Fol- 
lowing it is the particular part of the work for the students in house- 
hold science. In this they come to the study of a particular type of 
organization, the family, which is approached by us as we approach 

253 



254 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the study of any organization, such as a railroad or other corporation. 
We study a corporation as an independent unit, producing, exchang- 
ing, consuming; its independent economic activities, and its activities 
in relation to other units of different kinds. So we take up the 
study of the family and get at it from that point of view, along that 
line of reasoning. We begin with a resume of the history and struc- 
ture of the family. We consider the structure of the family historically, 
for purely academic reasons. That is a subject we need to treat 
carefully as it brings us to the alleged destruction or decay of the 
family. I am one of those who do not care whether the family as it 
exists today decays or not, in the ordinary sense; I regard a particular 
structure, or form, of the family as unimportant, so long as the spiritual 
essence of the family-relationship is maintained and perpetuated. 
In other words, the structure of the family is changing constantly. 
If however, the spiritual essence of its relationships remains, that is 
the important thing. 

In studying the family as an economic unit we discuss the history 
of the family organization, the basis of relationship of the members 
of the family, the relation of women and children to the father, and 
the gradual decline of the power of the father; the recognized legal 
rights of wife and children as individual members of the family; the 
economic status of the members of the family historically and actually; 
the relations of the family as an organized unit to society, socially, 
economically and ethically; and, lastly, the effect of the economic 
independence of women and older children on the form of the family. 

In considering family structure I may say in passing that my own 
point of view is that the structure is relative and temporary and that 
the spiritual relationships are the essence of the family. The evidence 
of this is found in the fact that the family assumes different forms 
throughout the world, and at different periods among the same people, 
although we find the spiritual essence of relationship very much the 
same the world over. 

We then pass in our study to the more purely economic aspect of 
the family. From this point of view it is simply one form of business 
organization. We study the reaction of the present form of industry 
on family life as organized among us. A consideration of the economic 
advantages of a family income derived from the man's work only, 
as compared with that derived from his work plus that derived from 
the work of his wife and children, leads us, among other things, to 



igii] Economics and Household Science 255 

the subject of child labor and the employment of women, particularly 
of mothers, and the influences of away-from-home work on the family, 
both on the mother and the children. Closely connected with this 
topic is that of the economic independence of women. 

In considering the family as a producing unit we find that there is 
a great deal that is erroneous in our ordinary estimates of economic 
wealth, a great deal of the productive activity of women that is not 
taken account of. The work of the mother of the family and the 
young women at home is not recorded in the census, for example; but 
if they should go out into another family and do the same work, it 
would be recorded. 

Consequently, it is necessary to study the nature of the product of 
the economic activity of the family; that is to say, the nature of the 
work out of which the family income is derived. The income is partly 
money, partly material goods directly produced and consumed, and 
to a great extent services. We see in our study that the income of 
the family is material and non-material and that the material part 
consists of money and of goods. This leads us to the study of the 
relative importance from an economic standpoint of the activity of 
the members of the family, the income of the father, the income pro- 
duced by the children, most of which is a money income, and the 
influence of money economy on the productive organization of the 
family. At this point I bring into the course, and it seems entirely 1 

proper, an incidental study of some domestic industry; some students i 

devoting themselves to the study of the arts and crafts, some to the i 

production of artistic needle work or lace work, etc., so that each > 

year reports are made shoTving the development of some form of \ 

home industry in which the student has become interested. \ 

Then we consider the family as a consuming unit. Our study of f. 

this portion of our field is based on Professor Patten's Theory of \ 

Consumption, with special reference to the reaction of economic i 

forces and motives on diet schedules constructed on physiological and j,; 

chemical bases. Here we take up the laws of individual consumption, jj 

the laws of diminishing utility, harmony and variety. jf 

I have had some young women — Miss Bevier perhaps does not \- 

know this — come over to me with a list of things which they claimed 't 

formed a perfect unit of diet; at any rate, there is no doubt that there '. 

was a harmonious tot^l, sufficient in amount and perfect in the pro- .; 

portions of physiological and chemical elements. "But," I said to I 

I 



256 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the girls, "I coidd not eat those things;" or, "I could not afford to 
get them;" or "I do not like them." I wanted to show them the im- 
portance of taking into consideration the economic and psychological 
limitations of diet schedules and that these should be reckoned with 
in framing them. 

Towards the close of our treatment of the family as a business 
unit, we take a hotel or an institution as a model for study, it being 
the nearest that we can get to illustrate the economic organization 
and activity of the family. The students take it in a simple form and 
later expand it, making diagrams sho-^dng the various forms and 
ramifications of activities and finding out wherein it differs from the 
ordinary family, — what things we have to add and what we have to 
take from an ordinary large boarding house in order to turn it into a 
typical family. 

In connection with consumption we proceed to the very deHcate 
subject (to most of us) of family expenditure, its classification, pur- 
poses, methods, relation to income, and household budgets. For this 
study the girls procure the accounts of sororities, boarding houses, and 
restaurants, as well as the budgets of individual students. 

After considering the laws of individual consumption we ordinarily 
take up for brief study the possibiHty of increasing social consumption, 
or the consumption of the family as a unit; for I take it that there is 
a social consumption in the true sense of the word. That is to say, 
the family as a unit consumes certain things. These are chiefly what 
may be called esthetic goods or values. Several people may sit in 
that little room in Dresden in which is hung Raphael's great master- 
piece, " consuming" the picture simultaneously. It is in this sense that 
I use the phrase "social consumption." There is, too, what may be 
called social use of municipal and other pubHc utiUties Hke parks, 
museums, galleries, etc., the "values" of whose collections are ab- 
stracted or consumed by more than one person at the same time. 
There is a great deal of the esthetic and ethical in family activity 
that belong to this category; and a discussion of the topic takes us 
into some of the innermost recesses of family life. 

Following the study of family income and expenditure and closely 
connected with them, we enter upon a discussion of local markets, 
market organization, wholesale and retail bu\dng, tables of prices, etc. 

At the end of the course we discuss the "family in the community" 
— that is, as one of the social organizations going to make up society 



iQii] Economics and Household Science 257 

in the sense with the church, the school, and other organizations. 
We inquire into the relation of the family to these other social units, 
its duties and rights in connection with them, and the reaction between 
it and them. For example, the educational function of the family 
has been very much modified by the public schools on the one hand 
and in rehgious training by the Sunday Schools on the other. To 
illustrate further it will be found that the growth of the Sunday 
School has decreased rehgious teaching in the family, probably has 
lessened the study of the Bible, and led parents to feel less responsi- 
bility for the immediate religious training of their children. This 
state of affairs has modified the family function very materially. 
The same results \\ill be found in other directions. 

There are, of course, many incidental topics which are not properly 
activities of the family but are so important in relation to the family 
organization that it is undesirable to leave them out of consideration 
altogether. Among these are divorce in its economic aspects, the 
elements of law, including contracts, bills, notes, insurance, domestic 
relations, and elementary accountancy, etc., which every young woman 
ought to know something about. Then there are the activities which 
women engage in largely outside of family duties, such as charity 
organizations, etc. These deserve some consideration in this con- 
nection because every member of the family should be trained up to 
have some avocation. 

I think the matters I have touched on are things that every woman 
who will have charge of a household should know, as distinct from the 
woman who takes up the subjects for the purpose of teaching them. 
It would be an excellent thing if some student of household science 
would take up this side of the work and evolve the course which I have 
briefly sketched into a fully developed course in administration of the 
family as distinct from household science in the commonly accepted 
sense. 

RESPONSE BY FRANK A. FETTER. 
Professor of Economics and Distribution, Cornell University. 

To me is assigned the task of the critic. It is my duty to emphasize 
my disagreements with the plan that has been presented. I do not, 
however, find myself in a pugnacious mood; rather I feel a mingling 
of admiration and envy in seeing what Dean Kinley has accomplished 



258 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

in developing this course. His work has been pioneering. It is hard 
to find the path in the wilderness, or to sail into unknown seas. This 
course has been charting new lands on our educational map, and has 
been marking the way that makes the journey easier for all who follow. 

Even the general course in economics in our American universities 
is comparatively new. It is not long since economic instruction in 
our colleges consisted of one term of recitations in an EngUsh text- 
book given by the gray-haired president, a retired theologian. Now 
the course, guided by specialists, widens, and every year sees some 
new subject added to the curriculum in response to a demand called 
out by our new social needs. 

An ideal course in household economics is not to be had by taking 
a little of this and a little of that from other economic subjects. The 
course just outlined has perhaps something of this character of an 
educational croquette, nevertheless it is a very wholesome and nutri- 
tious dish, I once gave a similar pioneer course in agricultural eco- 
nomics. My equipment for the work was meagre, consisting mainly 
of lying in a hammock while on a vacation visiting country relatives. 
Today the course in the same institution is given by a man who was 
raised on a farm, and who, added to practical experience, has a good 
general and special agricultural education. Today he is giving a 
course in agricultural economics that makes me proud that I was his 
predecessor. 

An analogous training must the person have who is to develop the 
work in the economics of the household. A woman who knows house- 
hold problems and has done household work, who will take all that 
economics and sociology can give and pass it through the medium of 
her life's experience will develop a course that will make any economist 
proud that he was her predecessor. 

The course outlined contains elements usually classed as sociology, 
as well as parts classed as economics. Possibly at the meeting to- 
morrow evening the sociologists will claim many of these subjects as 
their own. Especially do the sociologists claim the subject of the 
family. It seems clear that the study of household economics must 
begin with the study of the family, however greatly city growth 
has weakened that basic social institution. A teacher in a high 
school in New York City lately assured me that the family was an 
institution that no longer existed in American cities, and therefore, 
thinks this teacher, pedagogy ought not to assume a knowledge of 



igii] Economics and Household Science 259 

family life in deciding the methods of instruction. It is a serious fact 
if an intelligent person can even question whether the family has 
become any-where in America an out-lived institution. At least it 
forces us to consider whether the influences which have been weaken- 
ing and Kmiting the family life are normal, or are temporary and un- 
healthy influences. Is this an evolution toward better conditions 
or is it evidence of social disintegration? 

The same problem is presented by the Sunday School and the Church, 
and we hear even ministers now asking whether (or at least how far) 
these institutions have lost their usefulness through changing social 
conditions. Whenever the causes which have given rise to institu- 
tions are weakened, those who have them in charge redouble their 
appeal to our sense of duty. But such appeals can only delay, not 
prevent, the ine\dtable, for social institutions cannot survive indefi- 
nitely upon a reputation acquired under circumstances different from 
those which now exist. 

But in regard to the destruction of the family in the cities, I feel 
that it is largely not in accord with the true processes of evolution. I 
feel that it is largely due to artificial and abnormal causes. The 
overgrowth of great cities is itself due in large part to unnatural and 
illegal railroad discrimination, to unwise social legislation, and to false 
standards of public opinion. It is bad political economy, this crowd- 
ing of vast numbers of people into great cities to earn their daily bread 
under physical conditions where good housing, good sanitation, healthy 
recreation, and a sound family life are impossible. 

We must continue to look upon the family as normal, desirable, and 
an indispensable imit of society. As a source and center of practical 
training in the social affections, it is i^ithout a substitute ; but we need 
to recognize the great change that has come over the city family as a 
center of economic production. Our instruction in household econom- 
ics must presuppose this normal family training in the child's ex- 
perience; it must assume that our education is preparing boys and 
girls for a later normal family life as men and women. 

The lack of home training that makes for efficiency shows itself, 
however, in a large number of boys and girls as they come to college, 
and it creates the greatest difficulties in college teaching. In the pri- 
vate preparatory schools the pupils too often are coached and coddled 
and do nothing without guidance. In their homes they are shielded 
by the affection and ambition of their parents and are obliged to 



26o The Journal of Home Economics {June 

do nothing for themselves and nothing for others except to study les- 
sons in books. The fact that opportunity for an education in doing 
things remains even in the city homes is often quite overlooked. 
A childhood spent without practical training and personal responsi- 
bility must produce young manhood and young womanhood without 
initiative or true power of independent thought. 

It is especially significant for the teaching of household economics 
that our girls, more often than our boys, suffer from lack of practical 
training. The fault lies with us, the misguided parents. We feel that 
girls especially ought to be shielded from all responsibility and from 
the performance of those duties in the home which would be worth 
much more in their development than years of bookish studies. We 
university teachers are strongly tempted to adapt our teaching to this 
passive quality of mind. But we can not shift our responsibility, 
and our teaching of any of the social subjects, including household 
economics, to be vital must include observation, investigation and 
practical training, along with precept and principles. Thus we may 
break this vicious circle, this endless chain of youth, untrained in the 
arts of the home, becoming untrained parents of another gener- 
ation of untrained youth. A part of our task is to arrive at sounder 
notions of the kind of family life than is possible and desirable in our 
new social conditions. That, rather than the chemistry of foods or 
the cost of gingham, is the main task of household economics. 

Training of this kind to reach the masses must begin at least as early 
as the high school. I have long been interested in working out a 
plan which should take such high school subjects as geography, civics, 
American history, etc., as a foundation and should add the study of 
family conditions and of the industries of the neighborhood. There 
would seem to be a need of a text-book along these lines, but even 
our ordinary text-books may serve well if in the hands of an extra- 
ordinary teacher. For example, the questions of demand and supply, 
of utihty, and of economic consumption as ordinarily treated are 
little more than dry terminology. These subjects to be helpful in 
household ceonomics must be discussed in terms of enjoyment and 
experience which the boys and girls have had. The traditional treat- 
ment of the theory of rent, as found in the ordinary books to which 
Dean Kinley has referred, is based upon the agricultural conditions in 
England loo years ago, whereas the only renting of which most city 
dwellers know is that of tenements, apartments, stores, etc. 



igii] Ecjnomics and Household Science 261 

The problems of labor and of management, of wages and of profits, 
can be illustrated as well by domestic as by factory conditions. Trusts 
and monopolies, the money question, banking, all have a bearing upon 
the income of the family, and the welfare of the home. The efi'ects 
of the tariff and of changing and of discriminating railroad rates are 
felt, especially, in the home. All these subjects lend themselves to 
a treatment from the point of \'iew of the household, and in turn the 
home experience furnishes numberless illustrations of the broader 
economic principles. 

City government and a growing portion of state and national govern- 
ment is but household economics writ large. When boys and girls 
are taught better to master the problems of economy in the home, they 
wall be prepared better to understand the problems of economy in the 
state and in the nation. If this is so, the institution of the family, 
instead of becoming of less and less importance, will grow more and 
more important as the nursery of citizens and as a training place for 
the civic virtues. There is therefore need for the worker in house- 
hold economics to see her problem in its larger relations, to understand 
the home in the light of general economic principles; but there is 
likewise need that general economic study should utilize more fully 
the experience in the family life and in the home economy. 



SOME FEATURES OF NUTRITION DURING GROWTH/ 

Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel. 
Professor of Physiological Chemistry, Sheffield Scientific School, Yale U^iiversity. 

The art of feeding during infancy and childhood has been practiced 
so many generations with obvious success that a physiologist may 
well hesitate to venture in any new direction in this domain. Not- 
withstanding this, the most superficial student of dietary habits must 
perceive that the science of nutrition has meanwhile advanced with 
great strides. In speaking of the changing attitude towards science, 
a recent writer has remarked: 

It is not merely that every day some obvious assumption is compelled to give way 
before some critical finding of science; but that every day we greet these, our own 
conquests, with incredulity. True, in regions to which we are entire strangers — 
that is, in regions where there are no first impressions to be corrected — we turn 
a gracious face upon the critical findings of science — hail them afar with even 
premature credulity; but not so in the places where we take our walks and tran- 
sact our daily affairs. Toward radium and the X-ray, it is true, we are all smiles. 
They are new and astonishing, but not impertinent. They do not contradict us. 
When, however, we are told that the earth on which our feet are flatly planted is 
not flat; that the sun which we see daily traversing the sky does not traverse the 
sky; that the colors which we behold plastered all over the objective world are not 
in the objective world at all; that laziness (at least among the poor whites of the 
South), which so often gets on our nerves and gives us an excuse for abusing some- 
body, is not a mere human contrariety — then it is that our patience oozes out; 
and then it is that the following series of manifestations occurs: Ridicule; then 
wrath; then persecution; then sullen reticence; then a listless acquiescence in the 
inevitable; then the sprightly declaration that" we alwa>'s knew it anyhow;" finally, 
a redoubled confidence that we can never be fooled again.* 

Our knowledge of nutritional processes has at length become eman- 
cipated from the bonds of empiricism and custom, and has grown with 

lA talk at the Conference on Homes, in connection with the Child Welfare 
Exhibit, New York City, January i8, 191 1. 

«H. W. Fisher: Making Life Worth While, p. 4. 
262 



igii] Nutrition during Growth 263 

the search for the why and wherefore of the practices in feeding. 
Dietary habits no longer rule with the authority of inherited preju- 
dices; and the spirit of inquiry, which is dominating almost every field 
of human thought and endeavor, is beginning to make its influence 
felt in connection with the food problems of man. To those who 
welcome this new era, it is encouraging to note the readiness with 
which the ideas of to-day find acceptance. A spirit of open-minded- 
ness has been cultivated. From an attitude of stubborn indifference 
to the new, our peoples are swinging to the other extreme of an over- 
readiness to accept the latest suggestion of the hour without criticism 
and to adopt it with a kind of blind faith which leads to faddishness. 

The period through which we are passing is perhaps not character- 
ized more by the additions to our store of facts than by the newer 
methods of approaching the questions which beset us. Some of you 
who are older will recall your first lesson in geography in which the 
introductory didactic assurance was given that the earth is "round like 
a ball," — or perhaps an apple, to make the comparison more vivid. 
How strong was our faith in those days! Few indeed could justify 
the first lesson in terms of their own experience. To-day all this has 
changed; and the study of method in teaching has assumed an import- 
ance second only to the subject itself. 

In the study of nutrition, too, the physiologist is prepared to admit 
the wisdom and efficiency of many — possibly most — of our dietetic 
customs; not, however, until he has sought to justify them on the basis 
of sound scientific reasoning. If we begin our dinner with soup or a 
relish as our forefathers did, the physiological justification for the 
practice is now forthcoming. The virtues of the extract of meat may 
remain, even though they are clothed in a new significance and no 
longer expressed in terms of concentrated nutriment. 

If one is justified in adding a word to-day to the many which have 
been written on the subject of nutrition in early life, it is because 
emphasis has more properly been laid of late upon two important 
features. One of these is that the needs of the growing organism are 
distinctly different from those of the full grown adult for whom main- 
tenance is the factor of primary import. The other feature is the in- 
troduction of the experimental method in which observation and trial 
in the laboratory and clininc give the true criterion for the validity of 
our dietetic theories. The earher attempts to improve the artificial 
nutrition of infants by adapting cow's milk in quantitative imitation 



264 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

of human milk failed to fulfill all that was expected of them because 
they were based upon analogy rather than scientific investigation. 

What, then, are the nutritive peculiarities which distinguish the 
period of growth? The supply of energy in the form of food must be 
bountifully measured to cover the needs of the growing parts as well 
as the ordinary physiological functions. New cells and tissues are 
to be added; and for these, food material is necessary as well as for 
the routine activities. I fancy that this extra need of energy in the 
form of building materials for the growing body is quite adequately 
appreciated; one aspect of it has not yet received the attention which 
it deserves. It is not a matter of indifference to the growing child 
whether this energy for growth is furnished in one form or another. 
The adult can burn any fuel — protein, fat, or carbohydrate — to keep 
his machinery in action. But every gram of new bone calls for salts 
of calcium; every ounce of new blood means the addition of iron to 
the body's equipment; every new cell demands a contribution of spe- 
cific chemical constituents. It is the problem of nutrition during growth 
to provide each one of these individual components in whatever 
form it is needed and in so far as it cannot be synthesized within the 
body's own laboratories. 

Precisely here it is that too often artificial — and at times even nat- 
ural — nutrition fails. The consequences of some of these deficiencies, 
as exemplified in rickets and anaemia, are well known. Many of 
them are far more subtle and equally far reaching. The inorganic 
salts or so-called mineral nutrients, too often entirely overlooked 
in any consideration of the dietary, not only supply essential construc- 
tive material for the cells, but they are indispensable for a normal 
functioning of the nervous and muscular system. 

It may be worth while to devote a few words to the newer knowledge 
which investigation in this field has contributed. Body weight declines 
from the moment that the inorganic salts are excluded from the food 
intake, even though the other nutrients are supplied in abundance 
The water-balance of the body — the elimination or retention of 
water — is notably influenced by specific elements (ions) ; and indi- 
vidual ions such as sodium and calcium may be antagonistic to each 
other in such effects. So little as one gram (15 grains) of common 
salt fed to a sick infant may induce rise of temperature. Salts of 
potassium tend to raise and salts of calcium to depress temperature in 
infants (L. F. Meyer). Pulse and temperature can readily be affected 



igiij 



Nutrition during Grcwth 



26s 



in infants by variations in the salt intake, so that the expression " salt- 
fever" has become current in clinical practice. The activity of the 
army of scavengers known as leucocytes is directly influenced by the 
salt intake. One can easily picture to himself a train of dire conse- 
quences following upon the omission or deficiency of a single element 
like calcium from the dietary. Some of the commonest foods of early 
life, such as wheat bread, meat and potatoes, are deficient in this 
very element. Enough has been said to indicate that so-called "cal- 
orie" feeding has manifest hmitations which fortunately are less 
conspicuous in the period where milk, a food almost ideal in compo- 
sition, forms the chief article of diet. 

A well known German paediatrist, speaking of the difiiculties of 
infant feeding, lately remarked: "Nutrition is beset with dangers 
from two sides: Overnutrition is its Scylla, and imdernutrition its 
Chary bdis." Those who appreciate how much has been done in 
recent years, especially in the United States, to determine the actual 
food requirements of adult man, will be gratified to learn that progress 
along similar lines has now been instituted in the study of infants 
in Germany. The respiration calorimeter — almost a household 
word to-day — has been admirably adapted to the investigation of 
infants and the researches have indicated the energy requirement to 
be high in proportion to body weight in comparison with the adult, 
but uniform in relation to the surface area of the individual. The cru- 
cial point is illustrated by the following data:^ 



ACE 07 CHILD. 


WEIGHT. 


SURFACE. 


CO2 EXCRETION. 


Per kilo and hour. 


Per sq. m. and hour. 


Days. 

144 
284 
380 


Grams. 
5790 
8450 
8930 


Sg. Meters. 
0.3840 
0.4963 
0.5150 


Grams. 
0.913 
0.831 
0.785 


Grams. 
13 - 78 
13-99 
13 49 



It may not be amiss to point out another lesson from the propor- 
tionality of metabolism to the extent of body surface. The hidden 
truth here of course lies in the fact that heat losses and temperature 
regulation are determined by the extent of body surface rather than 
by volumes or weights of tissue. The undue exposure of children in 



'Schlossmann: Arch. Kinderheilk., vol. 53. 



266 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

parts ordinarily protected with clothing must operate to a certain 
extent to increase the metabolism of the individual when the external 
temperature is not exceptionally high. The bared legs of children 
offer an area of cooling equivalent to no insignificant part of the entire 
trunk. Viewed in this light the practice of wearing short socks 
ought to be adopted only with a considerable conservatism and good 
judgment, particularly in the case of delicate individuals. 

In reviewing the methods of infant feeding which have been current 
during the past decade or two it is interesting to note the "changes in 
fashion," if the successive favorite practices may so be designated. 
Percentage feeding, so long conspicuous as a distinctive American 
contribution to food fashions, is giving way to the essentially German 
routine in which the specific character of the individual nutrients 
offered is of far greater moment than the relative proportion in which 
they are fed. Casein, which was once charged with many of the ills 
to which the infant digestive tract is subject, has lost its terrors. 
To-day the fats, to-morrow the sugar of milk may become the offending 
member of the diet. 

The gratifying feature of this confusing alternation of difficulties 
is the fact that the dietitian is learning to distinguish more accurately 
between the various symptoms of indigestion and malnutrition. 
The curdy flocks in the stools of the sick infant are not necessarily 
undigested curds; they may be soaps of lime or flocks of mucus. Fer- 
mentative conditions in the alimentary tracts are no longer charged 
to the bacterial decomposition of proteins alone; the carbohydrates of 
the diet may be equally well at fault. This discriminating intelli- 
gence, based on careful observation and a more thorough knowledge 
of the role of digestion in nutrition, has greatly extended the possi- 
bilities of the rational feeding of the young. Malt soup and carrot 
soup, buttermilk and vegetable oils, barley and bean meals are illus- 
trations of novelties which have been introduced in this way. The 
dietaries have been widened and the food of the day adapted to the 
indications of the hour. The time has arrived when the physician no 
longer hesitates to eliminate all food for a time in conditions of col- 
lapse due to defective alimentation — to food intoxication, as it has 
been called. The offended stomach and intestine and other nutritive 
organs are now-a-days permitted to recover from the prolonged 
insults of undigested food in the restful quiet of temporary starvation. 
Individuality in dietetic treatment has become the passw^ord to success. 



igii] Nutrition during Growth 267 

In addition to the growth requirements a further peculiarity of the 
young lies in the possibility of an incomplete equipment of those agen- 
cies which contribute to perfect nutrition in the f ullgrown. For exam- 
ple, the folly of offering starch to an individual whose secretions 
may not yet be developed to digest it, is ob\dous. Less appreciated 
is the objectionable oversupply of water to young infants in partic- 
ular. Large volumes of dilute nutriment are habitually administered 
without the slightest consideration of the physiological work which 
this entails. The circulatory organs and kidneys are continually 
taxed to transport water and eliminate an exceedingly dilute urine. 
Heat is necessary to dissipate part of the water in the form of vapor 
from the lungs. An imnecessary loss of essential inorganic salts 
through the prolonged water diuresis is not beyond the bounds of 
probability. One of our foremost paediatrists has not hesitated to 
emphasize these facts. 

"Even human milk," he says, 'is rich enough in water to produce an exceedingly 
dilute urine. There is certainly no lack of water in the milk; yet quantities of water, 
far exceeding those in breast feeding, are often administered in the guise of arti- 
ficial food. There is no reason for attributing anything either necessary or helpful 
to this surfeit of water. To-day we know what the water- needs of the infant are; 
and the question of the concentration of its food will require more consideration 
in the dietetics of the future." 

There comes a period early in the life of every child when an exten- 
sion in the range of the dietary becomes imperative. The paucity 
of food-ideas in the case of some parents is almost painful. Every 
prejudice, be it inherited or recently acquired, is brought into play 
to diminish the possibihties of liberal variety and wholesome choice. 
I know that some of my views in this connection will be charged with 
the flavor of faddishness. It matters not, so long as they encourage 
a few new experiments and dispel the fear of all that is unorthodox in 
feeding traditions. The mention of the banana as a food for young 
children still strikes terror into the heart of many parents. " What I" 
they say, "do you expect me to feed to this little child an indigestible 
bit of fruit which even I can barely tolerate?" I have often wondered 
at this widespread misapprehension. The ripe banana is as nearly 
free from bacteria beneath the skin layer as any fruit or vegetable 
which is available. In the process of ripening, its 20 per cent content 
of starch is rapidly and almost completely converted into soluble 



268 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

carbohydrates, mostly sugars. The content of protein and fat is 
insignificant; while the cellulose is present in the form of loose shreds, 
which readily pass through the alimentary canal without causing 
irritation and which may even contribute a desirable volume and con- 
sistency to the contents. The shreds adhering to the inner peel should 
always be removed. The banana is cheap, everywhere available at 
most seasons of the year, and can be prepared in a variety of palatable 
ways for consumption. Perhaps the fear of the banana is in good 
part attributable to the irrational way in which many grown-ups eat 
this fruit. They decline to eat this fruit unless it is unripe and still 
green, often in the delusive belief that the characteristic blackening 
of the ripe fruit is a sign of actual decay. Yet who would eat green 
apples and expect immunity? Or again the adult delivers the entire 
banana to his innocent stomach in two or three bolted chunks, obliv- 
ious of the simplest requirements of mastication which the smallest 
child does not neglect. The story of the banana might be repeated in 
a statement of the prejudice against prunes and other fruits, against 
carrots and spinach and a host of foods which lend effective variety 
to the dietary, provided that they are furnished in suitable form. 
How welcome must such diversity be to a child such as I lately saw 
fed upon crackers, custard, and cocoa, by a " dietetically helpless" 
mother. 

The rapid growth in popular knowledge of common foods will soon 
modify all this. Conferences like the present one can help to hasten 
the progress. In our enthusiasm for greater possibilities in the uses 
of foods we must not overlook or minimize the idiosyncracy which an 
occasional individual may exhibit towards some widely used article 
of diet. Milk, eggs, fish, berries — even cereals may be included in 
the list. The skin rashes with which children respond to certain of 
these products are familiar. With others distinct alimentary symp- 
toms may supervene. This hypersusceptibility is already forming the 
subject of serious study. Its occurrence is unquestionable and must 
be reckoned with. 

If I have dwelt in a rather cursory way upon some unrelated features 
of nutrition in growth it has been with the hope, above all, of diverting 
your view-point from the requirements of the adult to those which 
are peculiar to the developing child. The privileges of investigation 
carry with them an obligation to make its contributions a part of the 
general store of knowledge and to apply them in useful practices. 



INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES GIVING 
INSTRUCTION IN HOME ECONOMICS. 

Marie T. Spethmann. 

Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

There are in the United States over one hundred colleges and uni- 
versities or other institutions of collegiate grade which give courses in 
Home Economics. Of this number the colleges of agriculture and 
mechanic arts, or so-called land-grant colleges, established by act of 
Congress in each of the States, constitute the largest group offering 
four-year courses leading to the usual academic degrees. The courses 
vary considerably in their character and extent but in the main rep- 
resent a reasonably high standard. 

Such work under a variety of names is also included in the cur- 
ricula of a great number of normal schools and high schools. 

The information included in the summary here presented has 
been compiled from a card index of institutions, including normal 
schools and high schools as well as institutions of collegiate grade, 
giving instruction in Home Econorcics which is maintained in the 
Agricultural Education Service of the Office of Experiment Stations 
as a part of its regular work. Generally speaking, it includes only 
those institutions which have furnished definite information regarding 
their courses as a result of correspondence v.ith them. In a few cases 
the data desired have been obtained in some other way. 

As regards colleges and other institutions this compilation comprises 
32 land-grant institutions, 102 collegiate institutions not receiving 
Federal aid, 102 normal schools, 64 secondary schools receiving state 
aid for instruction in agriculture and Home Economics, besides 634 other 
high schools, 12 special domestic science schools, 24 industrial schools, 
26 institutions for defectives and dependents, and 26 part-time schools, 
all for white students. 

Four-year courses leading to degrees are offered by 27 of the 32 land- 
grant institutions. Instruction in Home Economics for teachers is 
offered by 22 of the 3. land-grant institutions, by 23 of the other collegi- 
ate institutions, and by 3 of the special domestic science schools. 

269 



270 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



Twelve of the land-grant institutions also give instruction in this sub- 
ject to teachers in their summer sessions. The agricultural colleges 
in Michigan and New York offer home reading courses in Home 
Economics, and the Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Wyoming agricul- 
tural colleges and the School of Education of the University of Chicago 
offer correspondence courses. There are also two special Household 
Economics correspondence schools in Illinois. 

There are also 16 land-grant institutions (of secondary grade) and 
69 secondary and elementary institutions not receiving Federal aid for 
negroes, and 137 secondary and elementary schools for Indians. Of 
the 16 land-grant institutions for negroes, 9 offer some training for 
teachers in Home Economics, and of about 20 negro collegiate institu- 
tions listed, 6 give such training. 

The grand total of institutions known to be giving instruction in 
Home Economics in the United States is, therefore, over 1200, and 
there are undoubtedly many others doing similar work. 

The writer will be glad to receive corrections and additions to the 
following list: 



I. INSTITUTIONS FOR WHITE STUDENTS. 

1. Collegiate Institutions. 
A. Collegiate Institutions Receiving Aid from the Federal Government. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


PRESIDENT 


Colorado 


State Agr. College 


Fort Collins 


C. A. Lory 


Connecticut 


Conn. Agr. College 


Storrs 


C. L. Beach 


Idaho 


University of Idaho 
University of Illinois 


Moscow 


J. A. MacLean 


Illinois 


Urbana 


E. E. James 


Indiana 


Purdue University 


Lafayette 


W. E. Stone 


Iowa 


Iowa State College 
Kansas State Agr. College 
State University 


Ames 


E. W. Stanton 


Kansas 


Manhattan 


H.J. Waters 


Kentucky 


Lexington 


J. G. White 


Maine 


University of Maine 
Mass. Agr, College 


Orono 


R. T. Aley 


Massachusetts . . 


Amherst 


K. L. Butterfield 


Michigan 


Mich. State Agr. College 


Agr. College 


J. L. Snyder 


Minnesota 


University of Minnesota 


St. Paul 


G. E. Vincent 


Missouri 


University of Missouri 


Columbia 


A.R.Hill 


Montana 


Montana Agr. College 


Bozeman 


J. M. Hamilton 


Nebraska 


University of Neoraska 


Lincoln 


Samuel Avery 


Nevada 


University of Nevada 


Reno 


J. E.Stubbs 


Mew Mexico . 


N. M. College of Agr. an,d 


Agricultural 


W. E. Garrison 




Mech. Arts 


College 





igiij 



Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



271 



STATE OR 
TERKITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


PRESIDENT 


New York 


Cornell University 


Ithaca 


J. G. Schurman 


North Dakota . . 


N. D. Agr. College 


Agr. CoUege 


J. H. Worst 


Ohio 


Ohio State University 
Okla. A. and M. College 


Columbus 


J. 0. Thompson 
J. H .Connell 


Oklahoma 


Stillwater 


Oregon 


Oregon State Agr. College 


CorvaUis 


W. J. Kerr 


Pennsylvania . . 


Penn. State College 


State College 


E. E. Sparks 


Rhode Island . . . 


R. I. State College 


Kingston 


Howard Edwards 


South Dakota . . 


S. D. State College 


Brookings 


R. L. Slagle 


Tennessee 


University of Tennessee 


Kno.xville 


Brown Ajtcs 


Utah 


Agr. College of Utah 
University of Vermont 


Logan 


J. A. Widtsoe 


Vermont 


Burlington 


M.H. Buckham 


Washington .... 


State College of Wash. 


Pullman 


E. A. Bryan 


West Virginia. . . 


West Virginia University 


Morgantown 


D. B. Purinton 


Wisconsin 


University of Wisconsin 


Madison 


C.R.VanHise 


Wyoming 


University of Wyoming 


Laramie 


C. 0. Merica 



B. Collegiate Institutions not Receiving Aid from the Federal Government. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


Alabama i 


Athens College (for women) 


Athens 


Florence University for Women 


Florence 


Arkansas 


Henderson College 


Arkadelphia 


California = 


Cogswell Poly technical College 


San Francisco 


Dominican College 


San Rafael 


Mills College 


Mills College 




Leland Stanford Junior University 


Stanford Uni versity 


Colorado \ 


Woman's College 


Denver 


Colorado Woman's College 


Montclair 


Connecticut 


The Hartford School of Religious Pedagogy 


Hartford 




John B. Stetson University 


DeLand 


Florida ' 


Southern College 


Sutherland 


State College for Women 


Tallahassee 




School of D. and I. Arts of Rollins College 


Winter Park 




Atlanta University 


Atlanta 


Georgia 


Bessie Tift College 


Forsyth 




Brenau College 


Gainesville 


Idaho 


College of Idaho 

Illinois Wcsleyan University 


Caldwell 




Bloomington 




Lewis Institute 


Chicago 




University of Chicago 


Chicago 




James Millikin University 


Decatur 




Northwestern University 


Evanston 




Ewing College 


Ewing 



272 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATIOM 


\ 


Illinois Woman's College 


Jacksonville 




St. Mary's School 


Knoxville 


1 


Ferry Hall 


Lake Forest 




Lincoln College of James Millikin Univ. 


Lincoln 


Illinois ■ 


McKendree College 


Lebanon 




Bradley Polytechnic Institute 


Peoria 




Rockford College 


Rockford 




Bettie Stuart Institute 


Springfield 




Wheaton College 


Wheaton 


f 


Earlham College 


Earlham 


Indiana ■ 


St. Mary's College and Academy 


Notre Dame 


Winona College of Agriculture 


Winona Lake 




Drake University 


Des Moines 


Iowa 


Humboldt College 


Humboldt 




Lenox College 


Hopkinton 




Midland College 


Atchison 


Kansas 


Highland University 


Highland 




University of Kansas 


Lawrence 


Kentucky — { 


Berea College 


Berea 


State University 


Louisville 


Louisiana . . \ 


H. Sophie Newcomb Memorial College 




(girls' college of Tulane University) 


New Orleans 


Maryland..'.. < 


National Park Seminary 


Forest Glen 


Woman's College 


Frederick 




Lasell Seminary 


Auburndale 




Simmons College 


Boston 


Massachusetts 


Northfield Seminary 


East Northfield 




Hill Institute 


Florence 


. 


Woodward Institute 


Quincy 


Michigan 


Hillsdale College 


Hillsdale 


Minnesota ... i 


Albert Lea College for Women 


Albert Lea 


North Star College 


Warren 


Mississippi . . 


Miss. Industrial Institute and College 


Columbus 


Meridian Woman's College 


Meridian 




Port Gibson Female College 


Port Gibson 


' 


Stephens College 


Columbia 


Missouri 


Cottey College 


Nevada 


, 


Lindenwood College for Women 


St. Charles 


Nebraska 


University of Omaha 


Omaha 


New Jersey 


College of St. Elizabeth 


Convent Station 


New Mexico 


University of New Mexico 


Albuquerque 




Lady Jane Grey School 


Binghampton 


New York.... 


Pratt Institute 


Brooklyn 


Fort Edward Collegiate Institute (for girls) 


Fort Edward 




Bennett School for Girls 


Millbrook 



igii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Econofnics 



273 



STATE OR 
TERBITORY 



NAHE OF INSTrrUTION 



New York... ' 

North Carolina. 
North Dakota . 

Ohio 

Oklahoma — 

Pennsylvania . ' 



Porto Rico 

Rhode Island... 
South Carolina . 



Tennessee . 

Texas. . . . 

Utah 



Vermont 

Virginia < 

Washington .... 
Wisconsin. . . 



College of St. Angela 

Teachers' College of Columbia University 

Vassar College 

Woman 's Institute 

Salem Academy and College 

University of North Dakota 

O.xford College for Women 

Western College for Women 

Lake Erie College 

Okla. Ind. Inst, and College for Girls 

State University 

Blairsville College (Woman's College) 

Elizabethtown College 

Temple University 

Drexel Institute 

University of Porto Rico 

Brown University, Woman's College 

Benedict College 

Washington and Tusculum College 

Carson and Newman College 

NashvilleAgriculturaland Normal Institute 

Belmont College 

Burritt College 

College of Industrial Arts 

Brigham Young College 

Brigham Young University 

University of Utah 

I.. D. S. University 

Middlebury College 

Eastern College 

Sweet Briar College 

University of Washington 

Milton College 

Milwaukee-Downer College 



New Rochelle 

New York 

Poughkeepsie 

Yonkers 

Winston-Salem 

University P. O. 

Oxford 

Oxford 

Painesville 

Chickasha 

Norman 

Blairsville 

Elizabethtown 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Rio Piedras 

Pro\idence 

Columbia 

Greensville 

Jefferson City 

Madison 

Nashville 

Spencer 

Denton 

Logan 

Provo 

Salt Lake City 

Salt Lake City 

Middlebury 

Manassas 

Sweet Briar 

Seattle 

Milton 

Milwaukee 



274 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



2. Secondary Institutions. 
A. Normal Schools. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME or INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




Normal Department, Polytechnic College 






and Ladies' Institute 


Cullman 


Alabama 


State Normal College 


Florence 




State Normal School 


Jacksonville 




Lincoln Normal School 


Marion 


Arizona 


Temple Normal School 


Tempe 




State Normal School 


Los Angeles 


California 


State Normal School 


San Diego 


State Normal School of Manual Arts and 






Home Economics 


Santa Barbara 


Colorado 


State Normal School 


Greeley 




State Normal School 


Athens 


Georgia 


Georgia Normal and Industrial College . 


Milledgeville 




Allen Normal and Industrial School 


Thomasville 


Idaho " 


State Normal School 


Albion 


State Normal School 


Lewiston 




Southern lUinois State Normal University 


Carbondale 




Chicago Normal School 


Chicago 


Illinois < 


Technical Normal School 

Northern Illinois State Normal School 


Chicago 
De Kalb 




Western Illinois State Normal School 


Macomb 




State Normal University 


Normal 


Indiana 


Indianapolis Normal School . 


Indianapolis 


Iowa 


State Teachers' College. 


Cedar Falls 




State Normal School 


Emporia 


Kansas ■ 


State Normal School 


Hays 




Kansas State M. T. Normal School 


Pittsburg 


Kentucky 


Western Kentucky State Normal School 


Bowling Green 


Louisiana 


State Norm.al School 


Natchitoches 


Maryland 


Baltimore Teachers Training School 


Baltimore 




Boston Normal School. 


Boston 




State Normal School 


Fitchburg 


Massachusetts ' 


State Normal School 
State Normal School 


Framingham 
Hyannis 




State Normal School 


North Adams 




State Normal School 


Worcester 




Thomas Normal Training School 


Detroit 




t Western State No/mal School 


Kalamazoo 


Michigan 


Northern State Normal School 


Marquette 




Central State Normal School 


Mount Pleasant 




State Normal College 


Ypsilanti 



igii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



275 



STATE OR 
TERXITORY 



NAME OF INSTITUTION 



Minnesota . . . 

Missouri 

Nebraska 

New Mexico . . 

New York 



North Caro- 
lina 



North Dakota 



Ohio 



Oklahoma 



Philippines . . . 
Rhode Island . 

South Carolina 

South Dakota. 
Tennessee. . . . 



Texas. 



State Normal School 

State Normal School 

State Normal School 

State Normal School 

State Normal School 

Cape Girardeau Normal School 

Missouri State Normal School 

State Normal School 

Nebraska State Normal School 

Wayne Normal College 

New Mexico Normal University 

Normal School 

Teachers' Training School 

State Normal School 

State Normal and Training School 

State Normal School 

New York Training School for Teachers 

State Normal School 

N. Y. State Normal and Training School 

Rochester Training School 

Normal and Collegiate Institute 

State Normal and Industrial College 

East Carolina Teachers' Training School 

N. D. State Normal Industrial School 

State Normal School 

State Normal School 

North Dakota School of Science 

Oberlin Summer School of Methods 

State Normal College of Miami Univ. 

East- Central State Normal School 

Northwestern State Normal School 

Southeastern State Normal School 

Central State Normal School 

Northeastern State Normal School 

Southwestern State Normal School 

Philippine Normal School 

Rhode Island Normal School 

Memminger Normal School 

Winthrop Normal and Industrial College 

Northern Normal and Industrial School 

State Normal School 

Morristown Normal and Industrial College 

West Texas State Normal School 

North Texas State Normal College 

Sam Houston Normal Institute 



Duluth 

Mankato 

Moorhead 

St. Cloud 

Winona 

Cape Girardeau 

Warrensburg 

Kearney 

Peru 

Wayne 

Las Vegas 

Silver City 

Auburn 

Brockport 

Cortland 

New Paltz 

New York City 

Oneonta 

Oswego 

Rochester 

Asheville 

Greensboro 

Greenville 

Ellendale 

Mayville 

Valley City 

Wahpeton 

Oberlin 

Oxford 

Ada 

Alva 

Durant 

Edmond 

Tahlequah 

Weatherford 

Manila 

Providence 

Charleston 

Rock Hill 

Aberdeen 

Madison 

Morristown 

Canyon 

Denton 

Huntsville 



276 



The Journal of Home Economics 



IJune 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAUE OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




Southern Branch of the State Normal 




Utah 


School of the University of Utah 


Cedar City 


State Normal School 


Salt Lake City 




State Normal School 


Castleton 


Vermont ■ 


State Normal School 


Johnson 




State Normal School 


Randolph Center 


Virginia 


McKinley Normal and Ind. School 


Alexandria 


Virginia < 


State Female Normal School 


Farmville 


StateNormal and Ind. School for Women 


Fredericksburg 




State Normal and Industrial School 


Harrisonburg 


Washington. . ■ 


State Normal School 
State Normal School 


Bellingham 
Cheney 




State Normal School 


EUensburg 




Stout Institute 


Menomonie 




La Crosse County Normal School 


Onalaska 


Wisconsin ' 


State Normal School 


Oshkosh 


Sauk County Normal School 


Reedsburg 




Normal School 


Stevens Point 




State Normal School 


Superior 



B. Secondary Schools Receiving Stale Aid Jar Agriculture and Domestic 

Science. 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


Alabama " 


Marengo County High School 


Thomaston 


Fifth District Agricultural School 


Wetumpka 




Third District Agricultural School 


Magnolia 


Arkansas 


Fourth District Agricultural School 


Monticello 




Second District Agricultural School 


Russell ville 


California 


California Polytechnic School 


San Luis Obispo 




Third District Industrial and Agr. School 


Americus 




Sixth District Industrial and Agr. School 


Barnesville 




Fourth District Industrial and Agr. School 


Carrollton 




Ninth District Industrial and Agr. School 


Clarkesville 


Georgia 


Eleventh District Ind. and Agr. School 
Tenth District Industrial and Agr. School 


Douglas 
Granite Hill 




Fifth District Industrial and Agr. School 


Monroe 




Seventh District Ind. and Agr. School 


Powder Springs 




First District Industrial and Agr. School 


Statesboro 




Second District Industrial and Agr. School 


Tifton 


Louisiana " 


Arcadia High School 

Bunkie Agricultural High School 


Arcadia 
Bunkie 



igiij 



Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



277 



STATE OR 


NAME OP INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 








Dodson Agricultural High School 


Dodson 




Oak Grove Agricultural High School 


Hope Villa 


Louisiana ' 


First Ward ConsoUdated School 


Jacoby 


Bellevue Agricultural High School 


Leesville 




Merry villa Agricultural High School 


Merryville 




Stonewall Agricultural High School 


Stonewall 


Maryland 


Agricultural High School 


Philopolis 




Montague Agricultural School 


Montague 


M^ai^^arliiiQPtt^ < 


Smith's Agricultural School and North- 




^jacujch iihj^i.cj 


ampton School of Industries 


Northampton 




Petersham Agricultural High School 


Petersham 


Michigan 


Menominee County School of Agriculture 






and Domestic Economy 


Menominee 




High School 


Albert Lea 




High School 


Alexandria 




Canby High School 


Canby 




High School 


Cokato 




High School 


Crookston 


Minnesota .... 


Crookston School of Agriculture 


Crookston 




Glencoe High School 


Glencoe 




High School 


Hinckley 




High School 


Mcintosh 




School of Agriculture of Minnesota Univ. 


Morris 




High School 


Wells 


Mississippi .... 


Bay Springs Agricultural School 


Bay Springs 




N. Y. School of Agriculture at Alfred Univ. 


Alfred 


New York 


N. Y. State School of Agr., St. Lawrence 






University 


Canton 




Haskell State School of Agriculture 


Broken Arrow 




Panhandle Agricultural Institute 


Goodwell 


OUafinma 1 


Council State School of Agriculture 


Helena 


yjt^itxiixjiiXGi .... ^ 


Cameron State School of Agriculture 


Lawton 




Murray State School of Agriculture 


Tishomingo 




Connors State School of Agriculture 


Warner 


Texas 


Tuleta Agricultural High School 

Tenth District Agricultural High School 


Tuleta 




Appomattox 




Longyear High School 


Burkeville 




Agricultural High School 


Chester 




Agricultural High School 


Driver 


Virginia 


Elk Creek Training School 


Elk Creek 




Agricultural High School 


Hampton 




Agricultural High School 


Lebanon 




Agricultural High School 


Manassas 




Agricultural High School 


Middletown 



278 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 
TEERITOay 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


f 


Marinette County School of Agriculture 






and Domestic Economy- 


Marinette 




Dunn County School of Agriculture and 






Domestic Economy 


Menomonie 


Wisconsin . . . . ■ 


La Crosse County School of Agriculture 




and Domestic Economy 


Onalaska 




Marathon County School of Agriculture 






and Domestic Economy 


Wausau 




Winnebago County School of Agriculture 






and Domestic Economy 


Winneconne 



C. High Schools Giving Courses in Home Economics. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


tOCATION 


Alabama ' 


High School 
High School 


Ahnond 
Birmingham 




High School 


Bisbee 


Arizona 


High School 


Morenci 




Union High School 


Tempe 


Arkansas ' 


High School 


Fort Smith 


High School 


Little Rock 




High School 


Auburn 




Kern County High School 


Bakersfield 




High School 


Berkeley 




Snell Seminary 


Berkeley 




Brawley Union High School 


Brawley 




High School 


Chino 




High School 


Colton 




Compton Union High School 


Compton 




Covina Union High School 


Covina 


California . . . . • 


Eureka High School 


Eureka 




High School 


Fresno 




Fullerton Union High School 


Fullerton 




Hollywood Union High School 


Hollywood 




Imperial Valley Union School 


Imperial 




Union High School No. i 


Livermore 




Longbeach City High School 


Longbeach 




Westlake School for Girls 


Los Angeles 




Polytechnic High School 


Los Angeles 




Gardena High School 


Los Angeles 




M. T. and Com. High School 


Oakland 




High School 


Ontario 



IQIIJ 



Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



279 



STATE OR 


NAME OF DJSTITDTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 








Castilleja School 


Palo Alto 




Throop Academy 


Pasadena 




Pomona City High School 


Pomona 




Shasta County High School 


Redding 




High School 


RedUnds 




Richmond Union High School 


Richmond 




San Bernardino High School 


San Bernardino 




California School of Mechanical Arts 


San Francisco 




Ir\'ing Institute 


San Francisco 


California 


Pol>i;echnic High School 


San Francisco 




Girls' High School 


San Francisco 




San Jose High School 


San Jose 




Ann S. C. Blake M. T. School 


Santa Barbara 




Santa Monica City High School 


Santa Monica 




South Pasadena City High School 


South Pasadena 




Ventura High School 


Ventura 




High School 


Watsonville 




Whittier Union High School 


Whittier 


- 


Siskiyou County High School 


Yreka 




High School 


Alamosa 




High School 


Arvada 




High School 


Aspen 




High School 


Black Hawk 




High School 


Blanca 




High School 


Boulder 




State Preparatory School 


Boulder 




High School 


Breckenridge 




High School 


Brush 




High School 


Canon City 




High School 


Central City 




High School 


Colorado City 




High School 


Colorado Springs 


Colorado 


High School 


Cripple Creek 




High School 


Delta 




East Side High School 


Denver 




Manual Training School, High 


Denver 




High School 


Durango 




High School 


Eaton 




High School 


Edgewater 




High School 


Florence 




High School 


Fort Collins 




High School 


Fort Morgan 




High School 


Fruita 




High School 


Georgetown 




High School 


Glenwood Springs 



28o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




High School 


Golden 




High School 


Grand Junction 




High School 


Greeley 




High School 


Hotchkiss 




High School 


Idaho Springs 




High School 


La Junta 




High School 


Lamar 




High School 


Las Animas 




High School 


Leadville 




High School 


Littleton 




High School 


Longmont 




High School 


Louisville 




High School 


Loveland 




High School 


Manitou 


Colorado 


High School 


Montrose 




High School 


Monte Vista 




High School 


New Windsor 




High School 


Paonia 




High School 


Palisade 




Centennial High School 


Pueblo 




East Side High School 


Pueblo 




West Side High School 


Pueblo 




Pueblo High School 


Pueblo 




High School 


Rocky Ford 




High School 


Salida 




High School 


South Canon 




High School 


Sterling 




High School 


Telluride 




High School 


Trinidad 




Ely School for Girls 


Greenwich 




High School 


Hartford 




High School 


Naugatuck 


Connecticut . . 


High School 


New Britain 




New Haven High School 


New Haven 




High School 


So. Manchester 




Staples High School 


Westport 


Dis. of Col 


Technical High School 


Washington 


Florida > 


Duvall High School 


Jacksonville 


High School 


St. Petersburg 




High School 


Albany 




High School 


Athens 


Georgia i 


Tubman High School 


Augusta 


Piedmont College 


Demorest 




Wesley Chapel High School 


Eatonton 




High School 


Hephzibah 



19 1 1] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



281 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


Georgia " 


Gresham High School for Girls 


Macon 


^ High School 


Savannah 


Hawaii ' 


St. Andrews Priory 


Honolulu 


Kamehameha Schools 


Honolulu 




High School 


Boise 




Idaho Falls High School 


Idaho Falls 




High School 


Lewiston 


Idaho 


High School 


Moscow 




High School 


Nampa 




Academy of Idaho 


Pocatello 




Rural High School No. i 


Rigby 




Jennings Seminary 


Aurora 




Austin High School 


Austin Sta., Chicago 




Bridgeport Township High School 


Bridgeport 




High School 


Cairo 




High School 


Carbondale 




Township High School 


CentraUa 




High School 


Champaign 


- 


High School 


Charleston 




High School 


Chicago 




Calumet High School 


Chicago 




Curtis High School 


Chicago 




Farragut High School 


Chicago 




Lake High School 


Chicago 




Marshall High School 


Chicago 




Medill High School 


Chicago 




Phillips High School 


Chicago 


Illinois ■ 


University High School 


Chicago 




High School 


Clinton 




J. Sterling Morton High School 


Clyde 




Woodford County Consolidated School 


Congerville 




High School 


Danville 




High School 


Decatur 




Township High School 


DeKalb 




High School 


East Aurora 




High School 


East St. Louis 




Englewood High School 


Englewood Sta., 
Chicago 




High School 


Elgin 




High School 


Fairbury 




High School 


Freeport 




High School 


Galena 




High School 


Galesburg 




High School 


Galva 




Geneseo Twp. High School 


Geneseo 



282 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 








Township High School 


Harrisburg 




Deerfield Township High School 


Highland Park 




High School 


Jacksonville 




Township High School 


Kenilworth 




High School 


Kewanee 




Lakeview High School 


Lakeview Sta., 
Chicago 




LaSalle-Peru Twp. High School 


LaSalle 




Township High School 


Lexington 




Township High School 


Lockport 




McKinley High School 


McKinley Park 
Sta., Chicago 




John Swaney Consolidated School 


McNabb 




High School 


Moline 




Township High School 


Murphysboro 




High School 


Pekin 




High School 


Peoria 


Illinois ' 


Manual Training High School 


Peoria 




Township High School 


Pontiac 




Township High School 


Princeton 




High School 


Quincy 




High School 


Rockford 




High School 


Rock Island 




Roseville Township High School 


Roseville 




Township High School 


Savanna 




South Chicago High School 


South Chicago 




High School 


Springfield 




Township High School 


Stockland 




Township High School 


Streator 




High School 


Sycamore 




Township High School 


Taylorville 




High School 


Urbana 




High School 


Watseka 




Township High School 


Waukegan 




High School 


West Aurora 




High School 


Batesville 




High School 


Evansville 




Fort Wayne High School 


Fort Wayne 




High School 


Greenfield 


IndicinzL * 


High School 


Hartford City 




High School 


Huntington 




Majiual Training High School 


Indianapolis 




High School 


Laporte 




High School 


Marion 




High School 


Mooresville 



igii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



283 



STATE OB 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 








High School 


Muncie 


Indiana 


High School 


South Bend 


High School 


Westfield 




High School 


Whiting 




High School 


Burlington 




High School 


Cedar Rapids 




High School 


Coin 




High School 


Davenport 




High School 


Denison 




East High School 


Des Moines 




High School 


Dubuque 




High School 


Iowa City 


Iowa 


High School 


Marshalltown 




High School 


Mason City 




New Providence Academy 


New Providence 




High School 


Onawa 




High School 


Oskaloosa 




High School 


Rock Valley 




High School 


Tipton 




High School 


East Waterloo 




High School 


What Cheer 




High School 


Arkansas City 




High School 


Atchison 




Dickinson County High School 


Chapman 




Crawlord County High School 


Cherokee 




Cherokee County High School 


Columbus 




Atchison County High School 


EtBngham 




High School 


El Dorado 




High School 


Emporia 




High School 


Eure'ca 




High School 


Fort Scott 




High School 


Gas City 


Kansas • 


High School 


Hutchinson 




Sumner High School 


Kansas City 




High School 


Marion 




Reno County High School 


Nickerson 




Decatur County High School 


Oberlin 




High School 


Ottawa 




SalinaHigh School 


Salina 




High School 


Topeka 




Sumner County High School 


Wellington 




High School 


Wichita 




High School 


Winfield 




High School 


Covington 


Kentucky 


Henderson High School 


Henderson 




Girls' High School 


Louisville 



284 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 






Louisiana \ 


High School 


Monroe 


Isadore Newman Manual Training School 


New Orleans 




High School 


Shreveport 




Edward Little High School 


Auburn 




East Maine Conference Seminary 


Bucksport 


Maine 


Jordan High School 


Lewiston 




Parsonsfield Seminary 


Parsonsfield 


^ 


High School 


Sanford 




Surratsville High School 


Clinton 


Maryland < 


Washington High School 


Princess Anne 


W'comico High School 


Salisbury 


I 


High School 


Sharptown 




Girls' High School of Practical Arts 


Boston 




High School 


Brockton 




High School 


Brookline 




Trade School for Girls 


Cambridge 




High School 


Cambridge 




Sea Pines — A Home School for Girls 


East Brewster 




Northfield Seminary 


East Northfield 




High School 


Fairhaven 




High School 


Hadley 




High School 


Holyoke 




High School 


Lawrence 




High School 


Lowell 




High School 


Lynn 


Massachusetts ■ 


High School 
High School 


Maiden 
Manchester 




High School 


Marlboro 




High School 


Medford 




High School 


Milton 




High School 


Nantucket 




Mount Ida School 


Newton 




High School 


Newton 




Newton Technical High School 


Newton 




High School 


So. Framinghara 




Technical High School 


Springfield 




High School 


Walpole 




High School 


Waltham 




High School 


Winchester 




High School 


Worcester 




High School 


Adrian 




High School 


Battle Creek 


Michigan * 


High School 


Cadillac 




High School 


Coldwatcr 


High School 


Crystal Falls 



igii] Institutions Gimng Courses in Home Economics 



285 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAIfE OF INSTITtrnON 


LOCATION 




Central High School 


Detroit 




High School 


Eaton Rapids 




High School 


Escanaba 




High School 


Grand Rapids 




High School 


Hastings 




Hillsdale High School 


Hillsdale 




High School 


Iron Mountain 




High School 


Ironwood 




High School 


Ishpeming 




High School 


Jackson 




High School 


Kalamazoo 


Michigan • 


High School 


Lake Linden 




High School 


Ludington 




High School 


Manistee 




High School 


Manistique 




High School 


Marshall 




High School 


Mount Pleasant 




1 High School 


Muskegon 




j Hackley Manual Training School 


Muskegon 




High School 


Negaunee 




High School 


North Adams 




High School 


Pa nesdale 




High School 


Saginaw. East Side 




High School 


Sault Ste. Marie 




High School 


Ada 




High School 


Akely 




High School 


Anoka 




High School 


Argyle 




High School 


Austin 




High School 


Bagley 




High School 


Barnesville 




High School 


Biwabik 




High School 


Blooming Prairie 




High School 


Blue Earth 


Minnesota 


1 High School 


Chisholm 




; High School 


Coleraine 




, High School 


Cottonwood 




Industrial High School 


Duluth 




High School 


East Grand Forks 




High School 


Elk River 




High School 


Ely 




High School 


Eveleth 




High School 


Fergus Falls 




High School 


Grand Rapids 




High School 


Hector 



286 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 








High School 


Hibbing 




High School 


Howard Lake 




High School 


Lake City 




High School 


Le Sueur 




High School 


Litchfield 




High School 


Luveme 




High School 


Mankato 




High School 


New Richland 




High School 


Ortonville 




High School 


Owatonna 




High School 


Pipestone 




High School 


Red Wing 




High School 


Redwood Falls 




High School 


Renville 




High School 


St. James 


Minnesota — 


Central High School 


St. Paul 




Mechanic Arts High School 


St. Paul 




Cleveland High School 


St. Paul 




Humboldt High School 


St. Paul. 




High School 


Sauk Rapids 




High School 


Sleepy Eye 




High School 


Spring Valley 




High School 


Stephen 




High School 


Thief River Falls 




High School 


Two Harbors 




High School 


Virginia 




High School 


Wabasha 




High School 


Warren 




High School 


Waseca 




High School 


Wheaton 




Winona Seminary 


Winona 




Winona High School 


Winona 




High School 


Bonne Terre 




High School 


Cape Girardean 




High School 


Chillicothe 




High School 


Clayton 




High School 


Flat River 




High School 


Greenfield 


Missouri 


High School 


Joplin 




Manual Trainintr High School 


Kansas City 




Westport High School 


Kansas City 




High School 


Kirkwood 




High School 


Lamar 




High School 


IMaplewood 




High School 


Maryville 



IQIIJ 



Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



287 



STATE OB 






TESKITORY 


NAUE OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




High School 


Mexico 




High School 


Springfield 




Central High School 


St. Joseph 




Benton High School 


St. Joseph 




Bartlett High School 


St. Joseph 


Missouri 


Central High School 


St. Louis 




McKinley High School 


St. Louis 




Yeatman High School 


St. Louis 




Soldan High School 


St. Louis 




Sumner High School 


St. Louis 




High School 


Webster Groves 




Sweet Grass Co. High School 


Big Timber 




High School 


Billings 


Montana 


High School 


Butte 




High School 


Dillon 




Flathead County High School 


KaUspeU 




High School 


Aurora 




High School 


Beatrice 




High School 


Beaver City 




High School 


Central City 




High School 


Chadron 




High School 


Columbus 




Crete High School 


Crete 




High School 


Exeter 




High School 


Fairfield 




High School 


Geneva 




High School 


Hastings 


Nf*Hra<;lfA 1 


High School 


Hebron 


AvtUlCLOJ^A . 1 • • . ^ 


High School 


Holdrege 




High School 


Humboldt 




Kimball County High School 


Kimball 




High School 


Lexington 




High School 


Lincoln 




High School 


Nelson 




High School 


Newman Grove 




Omaha High School 


Omaha 




High School 


South Omaha 




High School 


St. Edward 




High School 


Wayne 




High School 


York 




High School 


Berlin 




St. Mary's School 


Concord 


New Hamp- 


Pinkerton Academy 


Derry 


shire 


Robinson Seminary 


Exeter 




Gilmanton Academy 


Gilmanton 




High School 


Walpole 



288 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 








High School 


Montclair 




High School 


Orange 


New Jersey . . 


Pennington Seminary 


Pennington 




High School 


Perth Amboy 




High School 


Plainfield 


New Mexico . . \ 


High School 
High School 


Clayton 
Deming 




Albany Vocational School 


Albany 




High School 


Batavia 




Barlow School of Industrial Arts 


Binghampton 




High School 


Brockpoit 




Manual Training High School 


Brooklyn 




Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences 


Brookl3ai 




Buffalo Seminary 


Buffalo 




Drew Seminary for Young Women 


Carmel 




High School 


Dunkirk 


New York . . . . • 


High School 


Glens Falls 




High School 


Hudson 




High School 


Ithaca 




High School 


New Paltz 




Hebrew Technical School 


New York 




High School 


Olean 




High School 


Poughkeepsie 




Mechanics Institute 


Rochester 




High School 


Saratoga Springs 




Emma Willard School 


Troy 




High School 


Goldsboro 




High School 


Greensboro 


North Caro- < 
lina 


High School 
High School 


Holly Springs 
Newbern 


High School 


Raleigh 




High School 


Washington 




High School 


Cando 




High School 


Carrington 




High School 


Cooperstown 




High School 


Fargo 


North Dakota ■ 


High School 


Grand Forks 




High School 


Harvey 




High School 


Kenmare 




High School 


Larimore 




High School 


Valley City 




High School 


Williston 




High School 


Akron 


Ohio 


Ohio Mechanics Institute 


Cincinnati 




Walnut Hills High School 


Cincinnati 



igii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



289 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




Woodward High School 


Cincinnati 




Hughes High School 


Cincinnati 




Technical High School 


Cleveland 




1 High School 


Columbus 




1 Steele High School 


Dayton 




Stivers Manual Training High School 


Dayton 


Ohio 


High School 


Fostoria 




High School 


Hamilton 




High School 


Lockland 




High School 


Madisonville 




High School 


Springfield 




Central High School 


Toledo 




High School 


West Alexandria 




High School 


Bristow 




State University Preparatory School 


Claremore 




High School 


Granite 




High School 


Hartshorne 




High School 


Lawton 




High School 


Manguin 


Oklahoma 


High School 


Muskogee 




High School 


Nowata 




High School 


Ramona 




High School 


Stillwater 




High School 


Tahlequah 




University Preparatory School 


Tonkawa 




High School 


Westville 




High School 


Corvallis 




High School 


Marshfield 


Oregon 


Medford High School 


Medford 




Lincoln High School 


Portland 




Washington High School 


Portland 




High School 


Allegheny 




Bethlehem Seminary 


Bethlehem 




High School 


Erie 




High School 


Lebanon 




High School 


McKeesport 


Pennsylvania. < 


High School 

William Penn High School 


Oil City 
Philadelphia 




High School 


Phoenixville 




Margaret Morrison Carnegie School 


Pittsburg 




Allegheny High School 


Pittsburg 




Girls' High School 


Reading 




Technical High School 


Scranton 


Rhode Island. ' 


East Greenwich Academy 


East Greenwich 


Technical High School 


Providence 



290 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




Moses Brown School 


Providence 




Lincoln School 


Providence 




Miss Wheeler's School 


Providence 


Rhode Island . • 


St. Xavier's Academy 


Providence 




Tyler School 


Providence 




High School 


Providence 




Rachel Harris Manual Training School 


Woonsocket 


South Caro- 
lina 


High School 


Marion 


High School 


Spartanburg 


South Dakota . 


High School 


Lead 




High School 


Clarksville 




Knox County Central High School 


Fountain City 




Farragut High School 


Concord 


Tennessee — 


High School 


Memphis 




Ward Seminary 


Nashville 




Grove High School 


Paris 




High School 


Tyner 




High School 


Austin 




High School 


Belton 




High School 


Brown wood 




High School 


Corsicana 




High School 


Dallas 




High School 


Fort Worth 


Texas 


High School 


Galveston 




Grubbs Self-Help and Industrial College 


Greenville 




High School 


Hamilton 




High School 


Houston 




High School 


Pilot Point 




High School 


Texarkana 




High School 


Uvalde 




High School 


Van Alstyne 




Murdock Academy 


Beavei 




High School 


Brigham City 




Boxelder High School 


Brigham City 




Emery Academy 


Castle Dale 




Snow Academy 


Ephraim 




High School 


Lehi 


Utah . 


New Jersey Academy 


Logan 




High School 


Manti 




High School 


Moab 




High School 


Mt. Pleasant 




High School 


Ncphi 




Sacred Heart Academy 


Ogden 




High School 


Ogden 




Weber Academy 


Ogden 



igii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Ecanomics 



291 



STATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAUE OF INSTITDTION 


LOCATION 




High School 


Park City 




High School 


Payson 




High School 


Richfield 




Salt Lake City High School 


Salt Lake City 


Utah i 


Granite High School 


Salt Lake City 


\J LaJJ ^ 


Granite Stake Academy 


Salt Lake City 




Rowland Hall 


Salt Lake City 




Jordan High School 


Sandy 




High School 


SpringvilJe 




High School 


St. George 




High School 


Bellows Falls 


Vermnnt < 


High School 


Brattleboro 


T ^XlXiV^Ub ^ 


High School 


Rutland 




Vermont Academy 


Saxton's River 




High School 


Newport News 




High School 


Richmond 


Virginia 


High School 


Staunton 




High School 


Wakefield 




High School 


Waverly 




High School 


Aberdeen 




High School 


Bellingham 




High School 


Castlerock 




High School 


Centralia 




High School 


Chehalis 




High School 


Colfax 




High School 


Ellensburg 




High School 


Everett 




High School • 


Garfield 


Washington. . . 


i High School 


Hoqiuara 




High School 


Kalama 




High School 


North Yakima 




Olympia High School 


Olympia 




1 High School 


Pomeroy 




1 High School 


Prosser 




High School 


Puyallup 




High School 


Seattle 




High School 


Sedro-WooUey 




High School 


Snohomish 




South Central High School 


Spokane 




High School 


Tacoma 




High School 


Walla Walla 




High School 


Wenatchee 




! High School 


Cameron 


West Virginia . 


1 Charleston High School 


Charleston 




1 Fairmont High School 


Fairmont 



292 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



SrATE OR 






TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


West Virginia . • 


Huntington High School 


Huntington 


Wheeling High School 


Wheeling 




High School 


Williamson 




Antigo High School 


Antigo 




High School 


Appleton 




High School 


Bayfield 




High School 


Beaver Dam 




High School 


Beloit 




Bethel Academy 


Bethel 




High School 


Eau Claire 




High School 


Grand Rapids 




High School • 


Hayward 


Wisconsin 


High School 


Janesville 




High School 


Marinette 




High School 


Mayville 




High School 


Menasha 




High School 


Menomonie 




Webster Manual Training School 


Omro 




High School 


Oshkosh 




High School 


Stevens Point 




High School 


Superior 




High School 


Viroqua 



3. Special Institutions. 
A. Schools of Domestic Science and Arts. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATIOW 


Connecticut .... 


Housekeeping Experiment Station 


Darien 


Dist. ofCol 


Nat. School Domestic Arts and Sciences 


Washington 


f 


American School of Household Economics 


Chicago 


Illinois • 


Associated Schools of Domestic Science 


Chicago 




Evanston School of Domestic Science 


Haven School, 
Evanston 




Miss Farmers' School of Cookery 


Boston 


Massachu- 


Y. W. C. A. School of Domestic Science 


Boston 


setts 


Garland School 


Boston 




Worcester Domestic Science School 


Worcester 


Michigan 


Battle Creek Sanitarium School 

Fitch Creche and Training School for Nur- 


Battle Creek 


New York < 


sery Maids 
Mme. Gesine Lemcke's Greater New York 


Buffalo 




School of Cookery 


New York 



iQii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 

B. Industrial Schools. 



293 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 



Alabama . 
Colorado. 



NAME OF INSTITUTION 



Connecticut . . - 



Georgia . 



Idaho. . 
Illinois . 

Kansas. 



Louisiana . . , 

Massachusetts . . 
Mississippi 

New York I 

North Carolina . . 
Pennsylvania . . 

Rhode Island 

West Virginia . . . 



Alabama Girl's Industrial School 

State Industrial School for Girls 

Watkinson Farm School 

Manual Training and Industrial School 

Waterbury Industrial School 

Institute of Craft and Industry 

Secondary Industrial School 

Fort Valley Industrial School 

Rabun Gap Industrial School 

Berry Industrial School 

Idaho Industrial Institute 

Jewish Training School of Chicago 

State Industrial School for Girls 

Topeka Ind. and Educational Institute 

Southwestern La. Industrial Institute 

Loviisiana Industrial Institute 

North Bennet Street Industrial School 

Southern Christian Institute 

Margaret Sage Industrial School 

Manhattan Trade School for Girls. 

Brevard Industrial School 

Berean M. T. and Industrial School 

Townsend Industrial School 

West Virginia Industrial Home for Girls 



Montevallo 

Morrison 

Hartford 

New London 

Waterbury 

Waterbury 

Columbus 

Fort Valley 

Rabun Gap 

Rome 

Weiser 

Chicago 

Beloit 

Topeka 

Lafayette 

Ruston 

Boston 

Edwards 

Lawrence 

New York 

Eravard 

Philadelphia 

Newport 

Industrial 



C. InsiiliUions for Defectives and Dependents. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




Mystic School for the Deaf 


Groton 




American School for the Deaf 


Hartford 




Oxford Street School 


Hartford 




Connecticut School for the Blind 


Hartford 




St. Joseph's Cathedral School 


Hartford 


Connecticut . . • 


St. Peter's School 


Hartford 




Sanford School 


Redding 




St. Eli-cabeth's School 


Ridgefield 




Taconic School 


Salisbury 




St. John's Industrial School 


Saybrook 




Choate School 


Wallingford 


Dist.ofCol. . .. 


Industrial Home School 


Washington 



29 + 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



STATE OR 


NAME OF INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 


TERRITORY 






Illinois 


School of Soldiers' Orphans' Honae 

School for the Deaf 

W. C. T. U. Settlement School 


Normal 


Kansas 


Olathe 


Kentucky 


Hindman 


Massachusetts . . 


The North End Union Branch of the Ben- 


Boston, No. 2oPar- 




evolent Fraternity 


menter St. 




Minnesota School for the Deaf 


Faribault 


Minnesota 


Minnesota School for the Blind 


Faribault 




Minnesota School for the Feebleminded 


Faribault 




West Side Institute 


New York 




Five Points House of Industry 


New York 




Episc. Protectory Home for Children 


Verbank 


North Dakota... 


School for the Deaf and Dumb 


Devils Lake 


Ohio 1 


Jewish Orphan Asylum 


Cleveland 


Ohio Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home 


Xenia 


Vermont 


State Industrial School (Reformatory) 


Vergennes 



D. Part-Time Schools. 



STATE OR 
TERRITORY 


NAME OP INSTITUTION 


LOCATION 




Franklin Union 


Boston 




Independent Industrial Evening School 


Brockton 




Independent Industrial Evening School 


Cambridge 


Massachu- 


Independent Industrial Evening School 


Lawrence 


setts 


Independent Industrial Evening School 


Narick 




Independent Industrial Evening School 


Newton 




Independent Industrial Evening School 


New Bedford 




People's Institute of Northampton 


Northampton 




South End Industrial School 


Roxbury 


V 


Independent Industrial Evening School 


Walpole 


Missouri 


Y. W. C. A. Educational Department 


St. Louis 


New Hampshire 


Mrs. Hill's Summer Classes in Cookery 


South Chatham 




Evening Technical School 


Jersey City 




Bergen Street Evening High School 


Newark 


New Jersey . . . ' 


Franklin Evening High School 


Newark 


Hamburg Place Evening High School 


Newark 




Central Evening High School 


Newark 




Thirteenth Avenue Evening High School 


Newark 




Central Evening High School for Women 


Brooklyn 




School of Domestic Science 


Chautauqua 


New York < 


L. I. City Ev'g High and Trades Schools 


Long Island City 


Sargent Industrial School 


Matteawan 




Evening Industrial School for Adults 


New York 




Dept. of Education, Harlem Y. W.C. A. 


New York 


Ohio 


Educational Department, Y. W. C. A. 
Central Y. W. C. A. Dept. of Education 


Cleveland 


Pennsylvania . . 


Pittsburg, 



This li.t ti/iU be compleled in the October number ly the addition of Negro arid Indian schools. 



SUGGESTED OUTLINES FOR CLUB STUDY. 
Collected by Mrs. Olaf N. Guldlin. 

Chairman HousehM Economics Department, General Federation of Women's 

Clubs. 

I. Care and Feeding of Children. 

(i). Inheritance: 

Relation of selection of parents to perfection of progeny. 

Conditions governing and limiting inheritance. 

(2). Environment: 

p fCare of mother. 

\ Effect of diseased parents. 

{^Exercise. f Clothing. 

_, , ^ , Cleanliness. < Habits. 

Postnatal < L^ fi, 

I rresh air. |^ leeth. 

[Preventable diseases. 
Food I Regularity of feeding. 

\ Natural versus artificial feeding. 

fits use and modification. 
Milk. \ Its source and care. 

[Pasteurization and sterilization. 
Patent foods. 
Food for older children. 
Use of drugs. 
Relation of parent and child. 

References. 

Abbott E. H.: On the Training of Parents. Houghton, Mifain& Co., Boston. 

Cotton, A. C. : Care of Children. Amer. School of Horns Economics, Chicago, 111. 

Holt, E. L.: The Care and Feeding of Children. D. Appleton & Co., N. Y. 

Hunt, Caroline L.: Daily Meals of School Children. U. S. Bureau of Education 
Bulletin, 190Q, No. 3. Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. 

Kirkpatrick, E. A.: Fundamentals of Child Study. Macmillan Co., N. Y. 

Oppenheim, Nathan: Development of the Child. Macmillan Co., N. Y. 

Starr, Louis: Diseases of Digestive Organs of Children. Blakiston's Sons & 
Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

29S 



296 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

Washbume, M. E.: Study of Child Life. Am 3r. School of Home Economics, 
Chicago, 111. 

Pollak, Gustav: The Century Book for Mothers. The Century Co., N. Y. 
Brown, D.R.: The Baby. Whitcomb & Barrows, Boston, Mass. 

II. Food. 

(i). The elements which compose the body and the relation these 
bear to the composition of the food. 

(2). Composition, use, function in the body and some of the char- 
acteristics of the food stuffs: 

(a) Protein; (b) carbohydrates; (c) fats; (d) mineral mat- 
ter; and (e) water. 

(3). The relative merits of the various protein foods. 

(4). The relation of sugar, starch, fat, and protein in the dietary. 

(5). What constitutes a well planned dietary. 

(6). How to plan a dietary for a family of varying ages, activities, 
and conditions of health. 

(7). Relation of right nutrition to general welfare. 

(8). Diet in disease. 

(9). Advanced study of digestion and metabolism. 
(10). Care and preparation of food : 

a. Characteristics of the food stuffs as related to their 

cookery. 

b. Cookery of meat, eggs, cereals, bread, sauces, puddings, 

etc. 

c. Relation of cookery to general welfare. 

III. Pure Food. 

(i). National and state laws. 

(2). How present enactments are being carried out. 

(3). The part clubs can take in bringing about better laws and 
in establishing sanitary markets. 

(4). Food adulterations. 

(5). Simple processes for detecting adulteration. 

(6). The dangerous use of preserving powders in home canning. 

IV. The House. 
(i). Architecture. 

(i). Design. (5). Mantels 

(2). Materials. (6). Windows. 

(3). Floors. (7). Porches 

(4.) Woodwork. 



19 1 1] Suggested Outlines for Club Study sgy 

(2). Requirements. 

(i). Location. 

(2). Sanitation. 

(3). Ventilation. 

(4). Heating and lighting. 

(5). Tendency to omit all unnecessary ornamentation. 

(6). Rooms must have plenty of windows, closets, conven- 
iences, outdoor sleeping porches, a summer living 
room. 

(7). Place of the hall in the modern houses. 

(8). The whole arrangement should sim.plify labor, satisfy 
a refined sense of beauty, be proportionate to the 
financial ability of the family in property and income, 
and really put living on a higher plane. 

V. The Building of the House. 

Arranged by Mrs. John Hessler, Decatur, III. 

(i). Choosing a site. 

(2). Planning the house, construction of the shell. 

(3). Plumbing, heating, ventilation, lighting. 

(4). Doors and doorways, windows. 

Deign of doors and windows, spacing and size of windows. 

(5). Halls and stairways, fireplaces. 

Their arrangement must keep in view the practical needs of family 
life and convenience. 

(6). Porches and outdoor living rooms. Sleeping porches. 

(7). Laying out the grounds. 

A successful house will simplify the labor of the housewife, be pro- 
portionate to the means of the family, satisfy a sense of beauty, and 
put living on a higher plane. 

Bibliography. 

Chas. E. Hooper: The Country House. (This book may be used as a guide in 
solving practical problems of construction. Some other books are stronger on the 
artistic side.) 

Clark: The Care of the House. 

Sturgis Root, etc.: Homes in City and Country. 

Desmond and Proline: Building a House. 



298 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

VI. Household Decoration. 
{Arranged by Mrs. John Hessler, Decatur, III.) 

(i). Woodwork. 

(2). Walls and ceiling. 

(3). Floor coverings. 

(4). C .rpets, oriental rugs, inexpensive modern rugs. 

(5). Draperies and upholstery fabrics. 

(6). Furniture, (a) H storic f arniture. (b) How to choose 
desirable furniture, (c) Colonial furniture, (d) Mission furniture, etc. 

(7). Pictures, pottery, bric-a-brac — Their use and abuse. 

(8). Schemes of color and arrangement. 

The study of the Theories of Ruskin and of the life and work of 
William Morris is a good introduction to the study of house decoration. 
The dibt of modern decorative art to the arts and crafts movement 
may be traced through this course of studies. 

Bibliography. 

Marel Tuke Priestman: Art and Economy in Home Decoration. 
Wharton and Cod nan: Tne Decoration of Houses. 
Davis Benis: Style in Furniture. 

VII. Sanitation. 

(i). Soil, cellar, plumbing, drainage. 

(2). Water su )ply. 

(3). Disposal of refuse. 

(4). Lighting, heating, ventilation. 

(5). Location and arrangement to secure sunlight and air. 

(6). Refrigerators, sinks, bath rooms. 

(7). Sterilization. 

(8). Insect pests. 

(9). Food adulterations. 

References. 

Od-^en, H. N.: Rural Hygiene, Macmillan Co., N. Y. 

Sedjewick, \V. T. : Principles of Sanitary Science and the Public Health. Mac- 
millan Co., N. Y. 

Gulick, Luther H.: The Efficient Life. Doubhday, Page & Co., N. Y. 



19 1 1] Suggested Outlines for Club Study 299 

VIII. Labor Saving Machinery. 

(i). Vacuum cleaners. 

(2). Dustkss mop and cloth. 

(3). Fireless cockers. 

(4). Gas appliance-. 

(5). Electric appliances. 

(6). Alcohol appliances. 

(7). Mop wringer. 

(8). Kitchen cabinet. 

(9). Kitchen water proof and washatle aprcns. 

(10). Washing machine, hand and power. 

(11). Mangles. 

(12). Patent mops, cloths and brushes. 

(13). Bread and cake nixers. 

(14). Coffee and tea percclators. 

(15). Wheel trays. 

(16). Dish drainers and washers. 

(17). Thermos bottles. 

Labor saving is largely proportionate to the intellifrent understand- 
ing and practical application of system.s and methods. It is the 
laborer and family cooperation quite as m^uch as the m.achine. 

IX. The Laundry. 
(i). Best processes. 

(a). Washing. Softening agentF. 

Hand vs. machinery. Starches. 

Soaps. Bluings. 

(b). Dr>-ing. 

Out of doors. 
Artificial, 
(c). Ironing. 

Methods of heating irons as related to econcrry 

of time and money. 
Hand ironing vs. m.achine ironing. 
(2). Removing stains. 

(3). The econon ic consideration of m.odern equipment, 
(a). Stationary tubs. 
(b). Washing machine, 
(r). Mangles. 

(d). Electric and gas irons, gasoline and electric ircns. 
(e). Drying equipment. jDEFAKlklLM' 

fcOUSlLiiULD SClENCfi. 



3O0 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

(4). The need of municipal laundries. 

(5). European laundries. 

(6), What has been done in America to solve the problem? 

Bibliography. 

Balderston, L. Ray and Limerick, M. C. Laundry Manual. Avil Printing Co., 
Philadelphia, Pa., 1900. 



X. Textiles. 

Clothing. 

Study of materials, properties, manufacture. 

Hygiene of wearing apparel. 

Relative values of hand and machine work. 

Suitability for use and income. 

Economics of purchase. 

Social responsibility of wearer. 

Economy of time in relation to making and buying. 

Sweatshop problems. 

XT. Household Management. 



Division of Income — Expenditures: 

(i). Food. 

(2). Rent. 

(3). Clothing. 

(4). Operating expenses: 

Fuel, light, water, wages, laundry, repairs, and supplies. 
(5). Investment. 
(6). Interest, insurance, taxes. 
(7). Dentist, doctor, drugs. 
(8). Incidentals. 
(9). Personal expenses. 
(10). Higher life: 

Church, charity, education, recreation, travelling. 

References. 

Terrill, Bertha M.: Household Management. American School of Home Eco- 
nomics, Chicago, 111. 
The Journal of Home Economics. 



iQii] Suggested Outlines for Club Study 301 

XII. Household Management, 

By Mrs. Paul Doty. 

(i). The household budget for an income of 

(a) $1200 per year. 

(b) S5000 per year. 

(2). A system of household accounting. 

Classification, inventory^ equipment. 
(3). Operating expenses. 
Materials. 
Food — wholesale or retail. 
Clothing — made or ready-made. 
(4). Maintenance. 

Repairs and care of the home. 
Extensions. 
(5). Labor. 

Service rendered by family members. 
Paid service and material. 
(6). Rent or taxes and various kinds of insurance, life, fire, burg- 
lary, beneficiary' societies. 

Shelter, heat, light. 
(7). Higher life. 

Expjnsive education, vacation (what sort), recreation, 
amusement, entertainment, betterment. 
(8). Home industries and their relation to expenditures. 

The arts and crafts movement. 
(9). Household emergencies. 

Illness, first aid, asphyxia, burns, etc. 
Accidents. 

Fireproof construction, fire escapes, etc. 
(10). Marketing. 

The selection and care of meat, comparative values, use 
of charts, purchase of other foods. 
(11). Domestic service. 

Routine of work for a typical family; what constitutes a 
day's work; some problems in connection with domes- 
tic service, doing our duty; privileges and penalties; 
hiring and discharge. 
(12). Study of child life. 



302 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Bibliography. 

Matbieu, William: Chemistry of Cooking. $1.50. 

Salmon, Lucy: Domestic Service. §2.03. 

Church, A. H.: Fjod. $1.20. 

Farmer, Fannie M. : Food and Cooking for the Sick and Convalescent. $1.50. 

Richards, Ellen H.: Food Materials and their Adulterations. $i.oa. 

Hill, Sarah C: A Cook Book for ths Nurse. $3.75. 

Richards and Elliott: Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning. $i.oo. 

Richards, Elhn H.: The Cost of Food. 

Richards, Ellen H.: The Cost of Living. 

Richards, Elbn H.: The Cost of Shelter. 

Thudichum: The Spirit of Cookery. 

Salmon, Lucy: Progress in the Household. 

Haskins: How to Keep Household Accounts. 

Pestalozzi: How Gsrtrude Teaches her Children. 

Oppenheim, Nathan: The Development of the Child. 

Preyer, W. (Translated from the German by H. W. Brawn): Mental Develop- 
ment of the Child. 

Trumbull, H. Clay: Hints on Child Training. 

Compayne, Gabriel (Translated from the French by Mary E. Wilson): The 
Intellectual and Moral Development of the Child. 

H jgan, Louise E. : A Study of a Child, Harper & Bros. 



XTIT. Suggestions in Solving the Servant Problem. 

(i). Remove all discord that might grow out of our own incfiS- 
ciency. 

(2). Fli T inate drudgery. 

{a). Regulate home life to secure justice, freedom, system, 
cooperation from and to the whole fan iiy, includ- 
ing the maid. 
{b). Introduce as much modern machinery and labor- 
saving devices as \\ill truly save labor. 
{c). Apply household chemistry and study all scientific 

short cuts. 
((f). Make the house a home, not a museum. 
(e). Supply menus that conform to better health stand- 
ards, made also with reference to work, ccst, fire, and 
time. 
(0- Plan a living room fcr the one who is to serve. 
(3). Establish industrial schorls, introduce domcs'.ic science into 
the puMic schools, open extension classes in these public schccl 
departments, and everywhere create respect fcr intelligent labcr. 



igii] Suggested Outlines for Club Study 303 

(4). Train both housewife and servants bow to n^ake entertain- 
ments, dress, and the hcuse'.old conform to better standards and meet 
present day requirements. 

References. 

Journal of Hosie Economics, Vol. Ill, No. 2. Household Service as a Labor 
Problem. 

Salmon, Lucy M.: Domestic Service. Macmillan Co., N. Y. 

XIV. Cooperation. 

(i). How can every city have successful housekeepers' confer- 
ences? 

(2). The extension Home Economics worker from the State Agri- 
cultural College. 

(3). The farmer's institute worker. 

(4). State officers — State cherrist, etc. 

(5). City officers — Superintendent public schools, chairrran beard 
of health, board of safety, meat inspectors, n ilk inspectors, medical 
inspectors in public schools. 

(6). City specialists — Architects, plumbers, physicians, baby spe- 
cialists, eye and ear speclahsts, children's specialists, interior decora- 
tors, florists. 

(7). Old housekeepers who have worked out the sinplest methcdb 
of doing work, who understand sanitation and personal hygiene, who 
are expert cooks and nanagers. 

(8). Another method — 

(a). Secure a domestic science departm.ent from the school 

board. 
(b). Employ domestic science teachers. 
(c). Open classes to the public. 

rv. Professions Gro\mng out of Training in Home 
Economics. 
(i). Home making. 

(2). Supervisors and teachers in college, schools, settlements and 
playgrounds. 

(3). Institution managers. 

(4). Trained dietitians. 

(5). Managers of laundries. 

(6). Managers of lunch room,s and bakeries. 



304 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

(7). Extension workers and professional homemakers at farmers' 
institutes. 

(8). Sanitary inspectors. 

(9). Designers — dressmaking and millinery. 
(10). House decorators, furnishers. 
(11). Expert buyers. 
(12). Expert care of children. 
(13). Where is this training procurable? 

(14). The part Home Economics is taking in the adjustment of 
our overfed and underfed nation. 

XVI. Helps in Studying Home Economics. 

(i). The American Home Economics Association and the Journal 
OF Home Economics. 

(2). Write to Whitcomb & Barrows for book list. 

(3). Write to American School of Home Economics, Chicago, III., 
for pamphlets upon home and club study. 

(4). Get publications relating to food and other phases of Home 
Economics from U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 

(5). Cooperate closely with the chairman of Home Economics, 
General Federation of Women's Clubs, Mrs. Olaf N. Guldlin, Fort 
Wayne, Ind. 

XVII. Suggested Subjects. 

What clubs are doing in Home Economics. 

(i). Helping to obtain a fund to build model tenement houses In 
Los Angeles. 

(2). Holding housekeepers' conferences, short courses, demon- 
strations, and lectures. 



(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 



Settlement work. 

Placing domestic science books in public libraries. 
Securing state traveling libraries on domestic science. 
Cooperating with agricultural colleges in extension work. 
Cooperating with corporations in securing exhibits. 
Taking part in state conferences at universities. 



SIX TALKS ON HOUSE MANAGEMENT 
AND METHODS. 

The following plan will be used in Baltimore, Maryland, duiiig the 
season of 1911 and 1912 under the auspices of the State Federation 
of Women's Clubs. The talks will be given monthly from November 
to April inclusive and will be abundantly illustrated. It is expected 
that groups of women will be interested in taking up subjects under 
each head for closer study, their results to be reported at the following 
meeting, 

(i). The kitchen. 

Its proper size, lighting, and ventilation; arrangement of furniture; 
means of lighting by a high window; use of shelves. The outfit of a 
7 X 10 ft. kitchenette of an apartment house and of a 14 x 18 kitchen. 
What are we to do with a large kitchen? The floor and its care. 
Kitchen walls. 

The country kitchen, its special problems. 

Table tops of wood, oil cloth, zinc. 

Bring drawings if possible. 

(2). Utensils, good and bad. 

Where shall they be kept; some of the newer utensils. Kitchen 
spoons, aluminum ware. The fireless cooker; what it will do and what 
it will not do. Smokeless broilers. The kitchen cabinet. Fireproof 
serving dishes. The casserole, self-basting roaster, and bread mixer. 
The shad plank. Dish drainers. Lid holders, mop wringer. 

(3). Fuels compared as to cost of equipment. 

Cost of running; the best method of using and efficiency of wood, 
hard coal of different sizes, soft coal, coke, charcoal, gas, kerosene, 
alcohol, and electricity; gas from gasoline for country houses; iron 
tops for gas stoves. Separate heaters for water; the ga? heater, the 
coil in the furnace, the small stove in the cellar connected with a 
jacketed waterback. 

(4). The laundry. 

Shall laundry tubs be put in the kitchen and their use as a table? 

What washing machinery is to be recommended? 

The best methods of washing. Removing stains. 

30s 



3o6 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

Cost of home and outside work compared. 

How to reduce the amount of ironing. 

(a). By the use of the mangle, its cost and operation. A new 
use for a letter press. 

Q)). The larger use of woven and seersucker underwear. 

The alcohol iron, the iron in an asbestos hood. The laundry 
sprinkler. 

(5). Cleaning methods. 

Our relation to the architect; tight windows, tight floors, smooth 
wood work without dust catchers. 

Out relation to dirt outside the house, the smoke nuisance, dirty 
streets. 

Proper treatment of wooden floors and rugs. 

The vacuum cleaner — cost and use. 

Methods of sweeping and dusting — window washing. 

Cleanliness to be regarded from two points of view — hygienic and 
esthetic. 

(6). Methods of doing work to save time and strength. 

The height of tables and sinks and ironing boards. 

Bad postures. The need of a change of work. 

The importance of working in good light and air. 

The basement kitchen. 

Lessons learned from institutional methods. 

H3W to save steps: The "cold pantry." Use of the tray and of 
tables on castors. 

The "ten-hour day" in house work and its relation to the service 
question. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PERIODICALS. 

JMay I, igii. 
Foods and Cookery. 

A Forequarter of Lamb. Anna Barrows. Good Housekeeping, January, pp. go- 
93. Directions, Illustrations. 

Lessons in Elementary Cooking. Mary Chandler Jones, of Brookline, Mass. 
Schools. Boston Cooking School Magazine, January-April. Outlines of School 
lessons. 

Cookery in Literature. E. E. M. Boston Cooking School Mag., February, pp. 
345^347; March, pp. 371-373. Interesting quotations. 

Cottonseed Meal as Human Food. G. S. Fraps. Texas Agr. E.xp. Sta. Bui. 
128. Abs. in Chem. Abs., February 20, p. 734. 

Nuts as Food. Frederic J. Haskin. Am. Food Jour., February, pp. 27-28. 

A New Confection. C. Schenk. Chem. Abs., March 10, p. 928. (S^eds of the 
cashew tree.) 

Preparation of the Cod and other Salt Fish for the Market, including a Bacte- 
riological Study of the Causes of Reddening. A. W. Bitting. U. S. Dcpt. of .\gr., 
Bureau of Chim. BuL 133. 

The Centenary of Glucose and the early History of Starch. B. Herstein. Jour. 
Ind. and Eng. Chem., March, pp. 158-168. 

A Discussion of the Cider Vinegar Standards. Pure Products, 6, 707. Abs. in 
Chem. Abs., March 10, p. 927. 

Studies of Poultry from the Farm to the Consumer. M. E. Pennington. U. S. 
Dept. Agr., Bureau of Chem., Circ. 64. 

Determination of Cocoa Shells in Cocoa Powder. VV. L. Dubois and C. I. 
Lott. Jour. Ind. a>id Eng. Chem., April pp. 251-252. 

The Detection of Prune Juice and Caramel in Vanilla Flavoring Extracts. W. 
Denis. Jour. Ind and Eng. Chem. April pp. 254-255. 

Adulteration of Pepper. Kiihl. Chem Abs., March 20. p. 1132. 

Detection of Peanuts in Pastry. H. Haupt. Chem. Abs., March 20, p. 11 29. 

Tomato Ketchup under the Microscope. B. J. Howard. U. S. Dept. of Agr., 
Bureau of Chem., Circ. 68. 

The Detection of Peanut Oil in Olive Oil. P. Borisch. Chem. Abs., March lo, 
p. 927. 

A method for the Determination of Tin in Canned Foods. H. Schrciber and 
W. C. Tabcr, Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem., April, pp. 257-261. 

The Estimation of Essential Oils. C. D. Howard. Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 
April, p. 252. 

Test for Age of Milk. H. Bertin-Sans and E. GanjoiLX. Abs. in Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn. April i. p. 1009. 

The Occurrence of Tyrosine Crystals in Roquefort Cheese. Arthur W. Dox. 
Jour. Am. Chem. Sac, March, pp. 423-425. 



3o8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The Preparation and Properties of an Oxidase occurring in Fruits. H. P. Bassett 
and F. Thompson. Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, March, pp. 416-423. 

Nutrition. 

The Digestion of Vegetables. A. Schmidt. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., April 15, 
p. 1 154. Review of an article in Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift. March 9. 

The Nutritive Value of Beef Extract. Pharni. Journ. {London) 4, ser. 31 (1910) 
No. 2455, p. 548. Abs. in Exp. Station Record 24 (1911) No. 2, February, p. 168. 

The Assimilation of Blood as Food. E. Beck. Chem. Ahs., March 20, p. 1129. 

Metabolism Experiments with Elastin. E. Abderholden and E. Ruehl. Chem. 
Abs., March 20, p. 1135. 

Present Knowledge of Thyroid Function. S. P. Beebe. Jour. Am. Med. Assn. 
March 4, pp. 658-661. 

The Function of the Thymus. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., March 25, 
pp. 898-899. 

Functions of the Pancreas in Intestinal Absorption when disconnected from the 
Intestine. U. Lombroso, Chem. Abs,. March 20, p. 11 19. 

Ten Years Progress in the Field of Protein Metabolism. Otto Folin. Cleveland 
Medical Journal, vol. 8, pp. 645-52; Abs. in Chem. Abs., April 20, p. 1475. (A 
valuable review.) 

Contribution to our Knowledge of Protein Metabolism. F. Frank and A. Schit- 
tenhelm, Chem. Abs., April 10, p. 1307-8. (R lative value of different protein foods.) 

Protein Metabolism in the Dog and the Secretion of Bile after Feeding Protein 
and Protein Cleavage Products. A. Loeb. Chan. Abs., April 10, p. 1307. (Cer- 
tain proteins increase bile flow.) 

Studies on Drinking Water. III. On the Uric Acid Elimination Following Copi- 
ous Water Drinking Between Meals. S. Z. Rulon, Jr. and P. B. Hawk. Jour. 
Am. Chem. Soc, 32, pp. 1686-91. 

The Influence of Muscular and Mental Work on Metabolism and the Efficiency 
of the Human Body as a Machine. F. G. Benedict and T. M. Carpenter. U. S. 
Dept. of Agr., Office Expt. Stations, Bui. 208. 

The Calorimetric Valuation of Infants Foods. H. Mettenheimer. Chem. Abs. 
March 10, p. 933. (A mechanical device). 

Purine Metabolism of the Child. A Niemann. Chem. Abs., March 10, p. 934. 

The Digestion of Fat in the Stomach and Small Intestines and the Influence of 
Lecithin upon Them. Usuki. Chem. Abs., March 10, p. 936. 

The Influence of the Removal of Parts of the Intestinal Tract on the Character 
of Nitrogen Metabolism. II. The Removal of the Small Intestine. Carrel Meyer 
and Levene. Am. Jour. Physiol. 25, pp. 439-445. 

Influence of Cold Baths on the Glycogen Content of Man. Graham Lusk. Am. 
Jour. Physiol. March. 

The Effects of a Restricted Diet and of Various Diets upon the Resistance of 
Animals to certain Diseases. Reid Hunt. Pub. Health and Mar. Hosp. Serv., 
U. S. Hyg. Lab., Bui. 69; Abs. in Exp. Station Record, 24 (191 1) No. 2, February, 

P- 173- 

Some Facts concerning Under-nourished Children. Frances Perkins. Survey, 
25, pp. 68-72. 



igii] Bibliography oj Periodicals 309 

Significance of Lecithin in the Metabolism of the Infant. J. and W. Cronheim. 
Chem. Abs., April 20, p. 1477. 

Energy Metabolism of Mother and Child Just Before and Just After Birth. 
T. M. Carpenter and L. R. Murlin, Archives of In'ernul Medicine, February, Abs. 
in Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Mirch 25, p. 925. 

Fasting Studies: I. Nitrogen Partition and Physiological Resistance as Influenced 
by Repeated Fasting. Paul E. Howe and P. B. Hawk. Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, 
February, pp. 215-254. 

Fasting Studies III. Nitrogen Partition of two men through Seven-Day Fasts 
following the Prolonged Ingestion of a Low-Protein Diet. Howe, Mattill, and 
Hawk. Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, April, pp. 568-598. 

The Poisonous Effects of .Alcoholic Beverages not Proportional to their Alcoholic 
Contents. D. D. Whitney. Science, April 14, pp. 587-590. 

Sanitation and Public Health. 

The Air we Breathe. Kent, Crowell, and Jones. Science, March 31, pp. 486- 
491. (Correspondence e.xplaining our knowledge of the science of heating and ven- 
tilation.) 

Relative Effects of Gas and Electric Light on the Purity of the Air. G. S. Cooper. 
Journal of Gas Lighting, 112, p. 705, Abs. in Chem Abs., March 20, p. 1180. 

A Novel Doctrine of Ventilation. By the London Correspondent. Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., April 8, p. 1048. (Somi-popular). 

The Influence of Underground Waters on Health. B. Latham. Surveyor, 38, pp. 
374-6; abs. in Chem. Abs., March 10, p. 942. 

The Control of Pasteurization. G. Koehler and F. O. Tonney. Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn. March 11, pp. 713-718. (By Asst. Commissioner of Health and Director 
of Municipal Laboratory', Chicago). 

Sanitary Inspection of Oyster Grounds in the United States. C. A. Fuller. 
Jour. Am. Med. Assn., March 11, pp. 733-736. (From the Dept. of Bacteriology 
and Hygiene, Univ. of Wisconsin). 

Intestinal Bacteriology: A Summary. Arthur I. Kendall, M.D. Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., April 15, pp. 1084-1088. (Technical). 

Housing Conditions in Chicigo, 111.: Back of the Yards. Sophoniaba P. Breck- 
enridge and Edith Abbott. Amer. Jour. Social., January pp. 433-468. 

Congestion and the Housing Problem. E. H. Brush. Rev. of Reviews, February, 
pp. 119-207. (With reference to City and Suburban Homes Company). 

Textiles and CLOTinNG. 

Some Points in choosing Textiles. Charlotte M. Gibbs, M. A., Univ. cf III. 
Bui. vol. VIII, no. XV. pp. 18. (Information which every housewife should 
have — 4 Illustrations). 

Rags for Many Uses. F. Huntley. The Ilouseuiife. March, p. 13. (Practical 
economical suggestions). 

The Creation of a New Industry. Herbert Myrick. A magazine published to 
explain the treatment and making of wire grass furniture. 

Practical Embroidery Designs, The Mother's Magazine, March, p. 57. Designs 
for underwear and infants garments. 



3IO The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

The Fashions, Miss Gould. The Household Companion, February, p. 4 E. 
(Dress Accessories). 

Adulterated Clothing. Mary and Lewis Theiss. Pearsons, March. 

Tensile Strength of Hair Cloth. C. P. Fox. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 
February, pp. 11 2-1 13. (Human hair used in fabrics for interlining men's 
garments). 

Chlorination of Woolen Goods. E. Lodge. Possetls Textile Journal. Febru- 
ary, p. 52. (The process invented by John Mercer). 

Imperfections in Dyed Cotton Cloth. Dr. Louis J. Mates. Textile World 
Record. March, p. 124. (Causes of "damaged goods"). 

Bleaching Lace Curtains. Dept. Question and Answers. Textile World Record. 
March, p. 103. (Explanation of the bleaching process). 

Manufacture of Artificial Silk from Cotton. H. R. Carter. Cotton, 75, p. 31; 
Abs. in Chem. Abs., February 20, p. 289. 

Ancient Swiss Jewelry — The Influence of a Military Uniform on Costume. Part 
II. J. Van Sommer. The Craftsman, February, pp. 515-516. 

China Embroidery. Mamia Bastin. American Homes and Gardens Magazine. 
Frebuary, p. 72. (An inspiration in line and color for practical use.) 

Education and Social Work, 

The Penny Lunch Movement. Emeline E. Torrey. Good Housekeeping 
February, pp. 242-244. The Boston Experiment. Two Illustrations. 

Three Cent Luncheons for School Children. Olivia H. Dunbar. Outlook, Janu- 
8-ry 7, pp. 34-37. Account of successful 3c. luncheons in N. Y. City. 

The Vital Question of School Lunches. Mary J. Mayer. Rev. of Reviews, April, 
pp. 454-459. Illustrations. 

For the Children of Tomorrow. Independent, March 16, pp. 5S0-581. Editorial 
on pure milk. 

Cooperation to Stop the Leak between Farmer and Consumer. Editorial, The 
Craftsman, February, pp. 427-431. 

An Educational Wonderworker. Josephine Tozier. McClure's, IMay. 

Defective Children in School: A Social Safeguard. Olivia Howard Dunbar. Rev. 
of Reviews, April, pp. 449-454. Illustrated. 

A School Where Girls are Taught Home-Making. Prof. Lewis M. Terman. 
The Craftsman, April, pp. 63-68. High School at Holywood, California. 

Vocational Training for Girls. Isabellc McGlauflin. High School, Denver. 
Education, April, pp. 523-526. 

The Boy of To-morrow. Arthur D. Dean. World's Work, April, pp. 14282- 
14290. Vocational education. 

Women Laundry Workers in New York. Sue Ainslie Clark and Edith Wyatt. 
McClure's, February. 

Why Women are Paid less Than Men. Richard Barry. Pearson's, March. 

Nationalism and the Working Woman. Theodore Roosevelt. Outlook, February 
II, pp. 304-306. Editorial: Efforts of Consumers League and of legislators to better 
conditions. 

Occupational Diseases. William Ludlow Chcncry. Independent, February 9, 
pp. 306-309. Reviews recent progress. 



igii] Form of Phosphorus in Meat 311 

Miscellaneous. 

How Primitive Mound Houses became Square and Oblong. W. S. Sparrow. 
Fortnightly Review. March. 

The Perkin Medal Award. Jour, of Ind. and Eng. Chem., March, pp. 143-151. 
Interesting notes on the early history of aluminum. 

Eugenetics and Genetics. G. Clarke Nuttall. FortnigJiily Review. March. 

The Servantless Home. Mary H. Talbott. Good Housekeeping. April, pp. 
469-470. Some practical suggestions. 

Running a House by Rule. Elizabeth Hale Gilman. Delineator, February- 
April. (Series on kitchen utensils, dining-room, service, marketing, etc.) 

Home Economics in Iowa. Caroline L. Hunt. Good Housekeeping, April, pp. 
460-465. One of a series of articles, 1910-11. 

The Cost of Living. Henry Pratt Fairchild. Popular Science Monthly. April, pp. 
377-380. The cost of food increases as the rush to the cities continues. 

Country Hospitals and Nurses — A Long Step Forward. World's Work. April, 
pp. 14196-7. (Editorial.) 

Needed — A Domestic Immigration Policy. Frances E. Kellor. North Am. Rev. 
April. 

The Vital Decade of our commercial History. James E. Dunning, North Am. 
Rev., March. 

Scientific Cooking by Gas in the Diet Kitchen of A Famous Hospital. Vincent 
S. Cooke. Gas Logic, (N.Y.) April, pp. 3-4 (In Johns Hopkins Hospital). 

THE FORM OF PHOSPHORUS IN MEAT. 
Louise Stanley. 

Home Economics Department, University of Missouri. 

For some time it has been considered that all of the water-soluble 
phosphorus in meat has been present in an inorganic form. In some 
work done two years ago at the University of Missouri we questioned 
the method which previous experimenters have used in the separation 
of organic and inorganic phosphorys, and by our method of separation 
we showed that practically all of the soluble phosphorus is present in 
an inorganic form. This compound is split, and in roasts cooked 
at different temperatures we find a corresponding decrease in the 
amounts of organic phosphorus, the roast which was cooked at a tem- 
perature of 98.5° containing practically no phosphorus in the organic 
form. These results, if correct, will have some significance in feeding 
where it is desired to give as much phosphorus as possible in the or- 
ganic form. A fuller report of this work can be had by referring to 
the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, May, 1910. 



NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. 
Department of Manual Training and Art. 

PROGRAM. 

President, Clifford B. Connelley, Pittsburgh, Pa. Secretary, C. 
Valentine Kirby, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Meeting place: San Francisco, Cal., July 8-14, 1911. 

General. 

(i). To What Extent Does Manual Arts Training Aid in Adjustment 
to Environment: Clifford B. Connelley, Dean of School of Applied 
Industries, Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

(2). The Dynamic Value of Manual Arts in the Public School 
System of Education: Hon. T. D. Sensor, Dept. of Public Instruc- 
tion, Trenton, N. J. 

(3). The Requisites of the EflScient Teacher in Industrial Schools: 
Dr. G. E. Gerwig, Sec'y of Board of School Controllers, N. S., Pitts- 
burgh, Pa. 

Discussions: James Edwin Addicott, Director of Education, Sum- 
mer Institute of Mechanic Arts, Oakland, Cal. ; Prof. Sherer, Throop 
Polytechnic Institute, Pasadena, Cal.; Mr. Winslow. 

Household Arts. 

Chairman: Miss Ednah A. Rich, President, State Normal School 
of Manual Arts and Home Economics, Santa Barbara, Cal. 

(i). Report of Committee on Nomenclature: Miss Ednah A. 
Rich. 

(2). The Public School Domestic Science Department as an In- 
fluence in the Community Enforcing the Observance of Pure Food 
Laws, Civic Cleanliness, etc.: Miss Mattie P. Clark, Polytechnical 
High School, Oakland, Cal. 

(3). Some Actual Needs for Intelligent Purchasing of House- 
hold Commodities and Practical Methods for Keeping Household 
Accounts: Miss Etta P. Flagg, Los Angeles, Cal. 

312 



191 1] National Education Association 313 

Discussions: William R. Snyder, Prin. Hollywood High School, 
Hollywood, Cal.; Miss Harriet A. Boyer, Head of Domestic Science 
Department, H. Sophie Newcomb JMemorial College, Tulane Uni- 
versity, New Orleans, La. 

Art. 

In Charge of Meeting: A. B. Clark, Department of Drawing, 
Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal. 

(i). Art Education in the Public Schools, an Essential Civic of 
Perfection: Mr. A. B. Clark. 

(2). Art's Service as a Basis for Classified Knowledge (Scientific 
Development): (Speaker not selected.) 

(3). WTiat has Art in the Schools done to Preserve and Cultivate 
the Imagination: Miss May Gearhart, Supervisor of Music, Los 
Angeles, Cal. 

Discussions: Ellsworth Woodward, H. Sophie Newcomb Memo- 
rial College, New Orleans, La.; Katherine M. Ball, Supervisor of Draw- 
ing, San Francisco, Cal; Miss Hitchell, Supervisor of Drawing, Chicago. 

Manuai Training. 

Chairman: Clifford B. Connelley, Dean of the School of Applied 
Industries, Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

(i). The New Standard of Present Day Industrial Education in 
Europe: Paul Kreuzpointner, Chairman of Industrial Committee, 
American Foundrymen's Association, Altoona, Pa. 

(2). The Requisites of Effective Teaching in Manual and House- 
hold Arts: Miss Helen Louise Johnson, Director, Good Housekeep- 
ing Institute, Springfield, Mass. 

(3). Present Problems in the Literature of the Manual Arts and 
Vocational Education: William T. Bawden, Assistant Dean of the 
College of Engin ering. University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Discussions: Mr. Louis Butler, Supervisor of Manual Training, 
San Jose, Cal.; Arthur G. Chamberlain, Throop Polytechnic Institute, 
Pasadena, Cal.; George A. Merrill, Prin., California School of Mechan- 
ical Arts, San Francisco, Cal. 



EDITORIALS. 

We refer our readers to page 213 for a brief obituary notice of Mrs. 
Richards followed by a tribute from the president of this Association, 
Professor Isabel Bevier. Those who will gladly 
Death of Mrs. learn more of this useful and many-sided life will 
Richards. be interested to know that the October number of 

this Journal will be used as a memorial to Mrs. 
Richards to which many of her co-workers will contribute. Especial 
emphasis will be laid on her relation to the Home Economics movement, 
for in this she has always been the central figure. Her relation to it 
was indeed so unique that one seeks in vain for a parallel. She in her 
own life saw the transition from the simple and alm.ost primitive 
conditions in this country when the varied activities of the farm house- 
hold fitted the girl and boy for life's duties, to the more specialized con- 
ditions of town and city which called for training of hand and eye 
and the learning of household arts in the light of the newer scientific 
knowledge; which made necessary, also, the restating in modern terms 
of the relation of woman to the home and the place of the homie in 
our developing national life. This movement came to be the most 
absorbing of her interests and to its promotion, her scientific training 
and her immxnsc power of labor paid generous tribute. She lived 
to see it recognized, honored and adopted into our educational . ystem. 

Copies of the photograph of Mrs. Richards that appeared in 
Photograph of the February number of the Journal may be 
Mrs. Richards. ordered through the Journal. Price 25 cents. 

Two Summer Mee'ings of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation will be held in June and July, 1911. One of these is a section 

meeting at the National Education Association 
Summer Meet- Convention, San Francisco, July 8-14, at which 
ings of the Asso- time a four-day program of the Association will 
ciation. be given on the afternoons of July 10, 11, 12 

and 13; the other is a meeting of the Admin- 
istration Section at the Lake Placid Club, June 27-July i. 

A strong program is being arranged for the San Francisco meeting, 
including in addition to scientific papers, topics which will be of espe_ 

314 



1 9 1 1 ] Editorials 315 

cial help to teachers and housekeepers. This will be the first meeting 
of the American Home Economics Association in the far west and 
will undoubtedly bring together from that section many persons inter- 
ested in Home Economics. 

The Administrative Section will devote its attention to the problems 
of management in the private household and the institutional house- 
hold. It will be of interest especially to persons professionally con- 
cerned with household nanagem-ent, but teachers of Hom.e Economics 
will also be welcome to the conference and will find in it much help. 
It is announced that "the trustee ^ of the Lake Placid CUb extend 
meml.cr's privileges to all who attend the con'erence. The charge 
for table board is $2.50 per day and rooms will be furnished with- 
out expen e." 

The full programs of the two meeti igs will be mailed to all mem- 
bers of the American Hom.e Economics Association early in June. 

Club women and individuals who are interested in the development 
of household processes along miodern lines will find suggestions in 

the outlines for club study furnished by Mrs. 
Study Courses Guldlin, Chairman of Household Economi s in 
for Women's the General Federation of Clubs, and also in 
Clubs. the more detailed plan that is to be used by club 

women in Baltimore, Md., during the next season. 
In working out all such plans original sources of inforrration should 
be sought in books on the subjects, in bulletins issued by the various 
technical schools and universities having departments of Home Eco- 
nomics, and wherever accurate infornation may be found. Such 
references when found should be carefully preserved and put at the 
service of other groups. In future numbers of the Journal will 
appear lists of reference books so annotated that they will be of real 
use to the student, an 1 the editor will welcome help from any quarter 
in the preparation of such lists. The present waste of effort in all 
these lines should cease. 

Our readers may be interested to learn that on May i, renewals to 
the Journal for iqii had been received compris ng substantially 
two-thirds of the subscribers of last year, 
Subscribers and and the majority of these were also enrolled 
Members. as m.embers of the Association. The paid sub- 

scriptions now number over 1000 and the 
membership list is about 830. 



3i6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

These figures are encouraging in that they represent considerable 
increases over the corresponding enrollment at this date on viny pre- 
vious year. There have been surprisingly few absolute withdrawals 
from our lists, and many who have for a tine severed their connection 
have again joined the number. These facts, together with the large 
number of new names steadily being added, bear witness that there 
is room for a publication such as the Journal and that the Asso- 
ciation meets an actual need. 

Encouraging as is the situation, viewed from this standpoint, 
much yet remains to be done. There are still too m.any from whom 
no definite decision as to continuance or withdrawal for the future 
has been received, and not until the element of uncertainty thereby 
create i has been reaioved can pi ms be made. We therefore urge 
upon our present subscribers that they assist in making the Journal 
better by enlisting the support of friends and associates and thereby 
increasing the resources at our disposal. Special efforts are being 
made to enlarge and strengthen our organization, and upon the suc- 
cess of these efforts and the co"peration of all who are interested in 
the promotion of the cause of Home Economics will depend the fate 
of the plans for a larger usefulness which are now being formulated. 

The editors repeat their request for numbers i and 2 of Volume I 
_ . „ , and number i of Volume II. Forty cents will be 

Kof*lr J\llTIlDGrS 

, ^, -. , paid for each number in cash or in credit on sub- 

01 the Journal. . . 

scnptions. 

Attention is dire ted to a typographical error in the arti:le en- 
titled Planning Meals, by Mi s Emma S. Jacok, 
A Correction. which appeared in the Ap.il Journal. On page 
163, the final liae; should read "4 ounces of pro- 
tein, 4§ ounces of fat and 16 ounces of carbohydrates will meet the 
above requirements." 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The department of Home Economics has grown beyond expectation. New 

equipment has made it possible to accommodate large classes in both cooking and 

Of + sewing, and three different classes are running nearly every period 

' of the working hours. Advanced students in domestic science are 

_^ required to serve dinners to speciil guests in parties of eight, and 

the delicious courses served, as well as the attractive service by 

the girls is convincing proof of the excellence of training in this line. 

To say that the students pursuing Home Economics enjoy their work is stating 
the situation naildly, for they not only enjoy it, but they manifest the greatest eager- 
ness and enthusiasm in giving their thoughts as well as their hands to the mastery 
of these household arts. 

Miis Margaret McCarty, director of the department, has been called to different 
parts of the state in extension work for frequent addresses. Miss Lewis, the teacher 
of domestic art, was invited to give an address on Ways and Means of Improving 
Home Life at the Educational Conference held in Jacksonville in April. 

At a women's congress which was held March 2 and 3, in connection with the 
Michigan farmers' institute round-up, the following subjects were discussed: The 
parents' obligation to the child; the prevention of infant mortality; 
Michigan health and beauty in home and school; household management; busi- 

Agricultural ness methods for farmers' wives; the home reading table; practical 
College. demonstrations in bacteriology; food values; and hints on the se- 

lection of textiles. There was also an exhibition and demonstra- 
tion of the application of electricity to domestic purposes. 

Throughout the state of Michigan the women's clubs are interesting themselves 
more and more in domestic science work. They have a special day for programs 
relating to it and many are studying domestic science books regularly. They are 
also helping to establish Home Economics courses in the schools and colleges of the 
state. 

The demand for speakers on domestic science subjects is increasing rapidly al- 
though the department as yet gives no short course. 

Miss Nelle Nesbitt, assistant in the department of Home Economics, is doing 
some work on the amount of protein consumed per day by college girls to see ex- 
actly upon what standard they are living. 

Miss Winona Woodward, a student assistant in the d,^partment, 

uni SI yoi jg continuing her studies in isolating the organism which causes 
Missouri. - . , . . , , „„ ,.. ^ . , , , 

flavor m salt nsmg bread. When this is finished she expects to 

compare salt rising with other bread as to the chemical constit- 
uents which cause its flavor. 



3 i8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Miss Charley Tidd, also an assistant in ths department, has been doing some work 
in connection with the department of education on the relation of the school work 
to the home. This research will be presented as a master's thesis in the school of 
education in June. 

Plans are being projected for the establishment of an experimental station. The 
department is already cooperating with the agricultural department of the college 
in a study of fibre materials. Texas offers an unusually fine field 
Colleee of ^°'' '-^^^ ^^^<^ of work because of the great variety of hi^h class fibres, 
Industrial both animal and vegetable, that are and can be produced. Ex- 
Arts, Denton, periments with silk culture have been successful. 
•'■ ®^^s. Next year the college is planning to join the Texas Agricultural 

and Mechanical College in a demonstration tour in agriculture, 
stock raising, and Home Economics. Special plans are being made for textile 
demonstrations at this time. 

An outline in textile and Home Economics study for the women's clubs of the 
state has been issued. The outhne, in connection with one on domestic science, is 
to be published through the Home Economics committee of the state federation. 
The department is also actively cooperating with the Eight Week Clubs of the Y. 
W. C. A. of Texas in arranging courses of study in textiles and Home Economics 
for both the city circles and the country associations. 

The department of Home Economics was represented by one worker on the spe- 
cial trains which were run over the central part of Utah in February djing institute 
work. In the morning and afternoons demonstrations on bread 
Agricultural and meat were given, and in the evening talks on housekeeping 
College of in a joint session with the men. 

Utah. -pjjg college year has been the most successful thus far known, 

as there have been 170 girls in the department, a large proportion 
of whom have stayed through the year. 

The courses offered in the Home Economics department at the Summer School 
of iQii have been arranged with particular reference to the needs of Home Eco- 
nomics teachers who wish advanced work, of teachers who wish to begin a study 
of the subject, and of regular students who wish to continue work during the sum- 
mer. 

The woman's building, which is entirely devoted to domestic science and domes- 
tic artwork, affords opportunity for studying the design and cost of equipment. 
The library contains most of the new books pertaining to Home Economics. 

The courses off„'red include two laboratory courses in food, one for beginners and 
one for advanced students; dietetics and nutrition; a teachers' course; household 
art; dressmaking; and applied art. 

The extension work for the college of agriculture this year has included courses 
for housekeepers and farmers' wives in nine centers in the state. The work has 
been received very enthusiastically and as a rule the attendance 
has been very large. Mrs. Nellie Kedzie J )nes of Minneapolis 
University of ^^^ t^^^^ ^^^ speaker at three of the meetings. Other .use the 
teachers of Home Economics at t'le county agricultural schools and 
lecturers from the university have carried the work. 



iQii] News from the Field 319 

The subjects of Home Economics and manual training may now be offered for 
credit for entrance to the university to the extent of four units. 

A four year course leading to a B.S. degree in domestic science and art is to be 
offered next year. This will mean three years of technical work, including English, 

with one year of general college work. A student may specialize 
Lewis Insti- after the second year, in either science or art. Special students in 
tute, Chicago, domestic science have been furnishing lunches for fifty, with great 

satisfaction to themselves, to the fifty, and to the business manager. 

During the past winter the physicians of the Infants' Summer Hospital and the 

management of Mechanics Institute cooperated in arranging for a course in infant 

nursing, to be offered during the spring term at the institute, and 

Mechanics j.^ ^^ followed by two months' practical experience in the Infants' 
Institute, ,, . , ^ "^ , . ,.,,,,, 

Rochester Hospital. Entrance to the course, it was decided, should require 

N. Y. at least a grammar shcool education, a high school diploma being 

even more desirable. 

Six young women enrolled at the beginning of the term, and are now receiving 
daily instructions in food values, the preparation and cooking of food for little chil- 
dren, hygiene, child study, household science with simple experiments, and sewing 
and laundry for the nursery. These lessons are supplemented by a weekly lecture 
from some local physician on the care of children, children's diseases, etc. Stu- 
dents have opportunity to do practice work in the nurseries of the Rochester 
Orphan Asylum and the Bad3n Street Sattlemsnt. 

While the course is naturally still in its infancy its success is already assured, 
and it is none too soon to prophesy that by another year, when its possiblities are 
more generally understood, the capacity of the class will be tested to its utmost. 

The domestic science departments recently held an exhibition of household arts. 
The exhibition was held to show especially the class of work done in sewing, as its 

superiority and quality are not generally understood. 

^ h^"l ^^ number of dainty and well-made dresses made by girls of the 

Phoenix eighth grade were greatly admired. These dresses showed great 

Arizona. care in matching embroidery with cloth. It had been selected 

with close attention to suitability, durability, and simplicity of design. 

Many caps and cooking aprons, the first machine work done by the classes, were 
included in the exhibit. The hand work on exhibition from the fifth and sixth grades 
consisted of cleanly looking holders and little hand towels, each marked with the 
name of the student who made it. The lettering was in cross-stitching with red 
cotton. 

The beautifully darned stockings and neat patches were said by one of the judges 
of sewing at the local fair to be far superior to anything entered there. 

There has been for seven years a department of domestic science in the Manual 
Training Auxiliary Normal School at Pittsburg, Kansas. In loio- 
Home Eco- n departments of household science have been established in the 
nomics m Western Branch Normal School at Hays, in the Main Normal Col- 

lege at Emporia, and in the State University at Lawrence. 



320 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

The work at Hays is under the direction of Miss Agnew, a graduate of the State 
Agricultural College. That at Emporia is under the direction of Mrs. Beth 
Warner Mull, with two assistants. Miss Gertrude Fhnn and Miss Muriel WiUiams 
of Stout Institute, Menomonie, Wis. 

Fifteen per cent of the high schools in the state have nominal domestic science 
departments. There is excellent and permanent work being done in the high schools 
of Kansas City, Topeka, Leavenworth, lola, Parsons, Emporia, and Wichita and a 
number of the county high schools. Miss Alta Morgan has charge of the work in 
the high school at Harper. 

The work has received great impetus this year through several avenues : viz. 
(i) Miss Brown's enthusiastic field work; (2) The establishment of departments in 
in the state university and the Normal; (3) through the appropriation, by this 
year's legislature, of $250 from the state fund to be paid annually to any high school 
which gives the one year normal course and has a course in agriculture, for the pur- 
pose of helping pay the salary of an additional teacher for domestic science. It is 
beheved that with the training of more teachers the work will begin to establish 
itself on a firmer basis. 

The second annual meeting was held at Salt Lake City, April 7 and 8, a part of 

the meetings being at the University of Utah. The program included papers on 

the following topics: The desirability of a state course of study 

Second jn Home Economics in the grades and in the high school; school 

Annual lunches: courses in domestic art for the seventh and eighth grades; 

^Vcstern 

Meeting courses in domestic science for the seventh and eighth grades; 

Teachers of and work in rural communities. A business meeting was held for 

Home Eco- the adoption of a constitution and formation of a permanent or- 

nomics. ganization. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Sociology and Modern Social Problems. Charles A. EUwood, Ph.D., Professor 
of Sociology, University of Missouri. American Book Company. Pp. 331. 

In his preface, the author states that " this book is intended as an elementary 
text in sociology as applied to modem social problems, for use in institutions where 
but a short time can be given to the subject. . . . The book is also especially 
suited for use in university extension courses, and in teachers' reading circles." 

Almost the first half of the treatise is devoted to a study of the principles of soci- 
ology as they are illustrated in the origin, form, and historical development of the 
family, the family being taken as a typical human institution. The second half of 
the book comprises a discussion of certain social problems, such as the immigration 
problem, the negro problem, poverty and pauperism, etc. 

These are modem social questions, and the author discusses them concretely. 
In each case, he presents the situation and then seeks to discover its causes. He 
states repeatedly that the origin of each social problem, lies not exclusively in any 
one cause, but is the result of economic, biological, and psychological factors. Es- 
pecially is he insistent on the fact that economic maladjustment is an inadequate 
explanation of adverse social conditions. 

Dr. Ellwood thinks that there exists in America an exaggerated individualism, 
and that this trait is appearing in the life of women. This he laments. He over- 
emphasizes, it would seem, the difference between the sexes, saying that in the 
male, metabolism is much more rapid than in the female. In a recent book' we 
find the statement that the metabolism of men differs but little from that of women, 
the variation being due to a difference in weight, size, and muscular activity rather 
than to any sex difference. 

The book may be read with profit by anyone unfamiliar with the principles of 
sociology and unacquainted with the causes of some of our more pressing social 
problems. The discussion of these problems is comprehensive and the termi- 
nology simple. Several tables of reliable statistics are presented, and conclusions 
from these are cautiously drawn. The avowed purpose, as stated in the preface, 
is well carried out. 

Diet and Nutrition of the Filipino people. V. G. Heiser, Ann. Rpt. Bur. 
Health, Philippine Islands, 190^, pp. 25-29. 
Heat elimination of the body, heat requirements, the kinds and amounts of 
feed consumed by Filipinos, and similar topics are considered, the article as a 
whole being based on a paper on the Diet and Nutrition of the Filipino People, 
by H. Aron, asiiitant professor of phydjlopy at the Phihppine Medical School. 

•Sherman: Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, p. 171. 

321 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Ill OCTOBER, 191 1 No. 4 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1911. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 

Extension, Miss Anna Barrows, 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Food and Nut.vItion, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Textiles and Clothing, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

The Fauxly, Dr. Thom.\s D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 

Afflll^ted Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

October, 19 ii 

The Home Economics movement in the United States 323 

Dates and events in the history of the Home Economics movement 336 

Mrs. Richards and the Home Economics movement, Mary H. Abel 342 

Organizations for the promotion of Home Economics: 

The National Household Economics Association 349 

The Lake Placid Conference, Annie Dewey and Melvil Dewey 350 

The .'X.merican Home Economics Association, B. R. Andrews 357 

Practical experiments for the promotion of Home Economics: 

The New England Kitchen, Mary H. Abel 362 

The School of Housekeeping, Henrietta I. Goodrich 366 

The Household Aid Co 367 

Mrs. Richards' relation to institutions 370 

Personal tiibutes 3V9 

Some lessons I have learned in the line of philanthropic work, Ellen H. 

Richards 389 

Degrees, societies, and published writings of Ellen H. Richards 391 

Exhibits and prizes 397 

Memorial services 400 

Minutes of the Executive Committee on the death of Mrs. Richards 401 

The Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund, Caroline Weeks Barrett 402 

The Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section ot the Association, 

Mrs. Mary H. Moran 404 

Program of the San Francisco Meeting of the Education Section 409 

Editorials 411 

Selections from Mrs. Richards' published works ; 412 

Fourth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 

Washington, D. C., Dec. 27-30, 191 1 414 

News from the field : 415 

Books and literature 418 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. III. OCTOBER, 191 1 No. 4 

THE HOME ECONOMICS MOVEMENT IN THE 
UNITED STATES. 

Definitions. 

A science that has grown, rather than been made, that has expressed 
itself in various forms according to local needs, whether educational 
or practical, may well meet puzzling questions when it reaches the 
stage of formal arrangement and nomenclature. 

The Lake Placid Conference at one of its meetings, after lengthy- 
discussion decided on the general term Home Economics, under 
which to marshal the various courses given imder the titles domestic 
economy, domestic science, household science, etc., in schools of all 
grades and taught in extension lectures to adults, and to all movements 
and their literature which tend to improve the conditions of living 
in the home, the institutional household, and the community. 

The word "domestic" was found to have acquired too narrow a 
meaning except to designate certain courses; "economics" on the other 
hand, so long studied in colleges as the theory of the production of 
wealth, has returned to its original meaning which included the regu- 
lation of household affairs, the science of wealth consumption, or the 
use of commodities so as to conserve efficiency. But it was felt that 
with this term must be used a word that would bring out the deeper 
significance of our study of modern social conditions. The word 
"household" was not sufficient. To quote Mrs. Richards: "Home 
is not merely the house, the shelter which protects from wind and 
weather, nor is it merely the place where a man hangs up his hat at 
night or where he has his laundry done, not even the place where he 
eats and sleeps. Home is the scene of the greatest events of life — 

323 



324 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

birth, death, joy, sorrow. A palace does not increase its value; a 
hovel cannot take away the beauty of mother love. Therefore, we 
prefer the term Home Economics to household science." 

Professor Howard of the University of Nebraska^ says "already, 
after an astonishingly short probation, the yoimgest of the new dis- 
ciphnes is before the college coimcil seeking the just terms, the right 
basis of admission to fiill academic privilege. It implies that in our 
country the hour has come seriously to consider the organization and 
standardization of superior instruction in the field of household 
science." 

And Professor Elwood^ in speaking before the St. Louis meeting of 
the American Home Economics Association says, "If household 
science deals merely with questions of food, shelter, and clothing, 
then, of course, these questions can be studied quite independently 
of the home or family as an institution, for we should still need food, 
shelter, and clothing even though the institution of the family and the 
private house were aboHshed, as we understand them. It is only when 
we assume the family and the private home as necessary social insti- 
tutions that Home Economics becomes a genuinely social science." 

A Few Points in the History of ihe Home Economics Movement 
IN THE United States. 

Its Likeness to the Development of the Science oj Agriculture — Any 
history of those events and efforts which have directly or indirectly 
tended to the improvement of daily life in the home, its processes, or 
its ideals is foimd to be closely interwoven with the history of the 
development of the new scientific attitude toward agriculture. 

Dean Davenport, of the College of Agriculture of the University 
of Illinois, in an address given at the dedication of the Hall of Agri- 
culture at the University of Maine, recently said, "Agriculture is 
the only considerable calling in which the home is situated in close 
connection and in immediate contact with the heart of the business, 
so that all members of the family — men, women, and children alike — 
live in the atmosphere of the occupation and each finds some useful 
part to do as a contribution to the general effort. That is, agriculture 
is not only an occupation but a mode of life as well, and whatever 
touches to uplift or to depress the one is bound to react powerfully on 
the other." 

'Journal of Home Economics, 3 (1911) No. i, p. 33. 
'Journal of Home Economics, 3 (1911) No. i, p. 44. 



igii] Home Economics in the United States 325 

It is hardly more than a generation since agriculture was looked on 
as an industry that could be successfully conducted by methods 
handed on from father to son, a view still firmly held, by the way, in 
remote districts, just as there are housekeepers who need no better 
methods than those followed by their mothers and grandmothers. 

Mr. Melvil Dewey in an address at the Lake Placid Conference 
maintained that housework is despised for the same reason as that 
for which farming was regarded until recently as a business at which 
any man, no matter how stupid, could earn his li\nng. The bright 
boys of the family were sent into the ministry or other professions or 
to the city to enter business-life, while the less ambitious or efficient 
member took the farm. The housework er he maintained was the fem- 
inine of farmer and we note in her case the same selective process going 
on. The girl who could not learn stenography or teach school stayed 
at home to do the housework. But just as the chemist in his labora- 
tory has decided for the farmer the proper rotation of crops and the 
exact kind of fertilizer for each, and has given him the balanced ration 
for the production of milk or of fat in his cattle, thus revolutionizing 
fanning while raising it to the dignity of a profession, by exactly the 
same apphcation of the results of science in many fields is housekeep- 
ing and home-making being put on a higher plane. 

Home Economics in Farmers Institutes. — The work of Liebig and 
his followers in Germany had proved before 1850 that there was a 
science of agriculture, and students of the subject, many of them 
trained in Europe, began to urge the application of accumulated data 
to methods of agriculture. Local farmers clubs were organized in 
Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts, and Maryland nearly three- 
quarters of a century ago and other localities soon followed. State 
organizations were impossible at a time when an entire state such as 
New York contained less than one hundred miles of railroad. Much 
later came the National Grange and state organizations known as 
the Farmers' Institutes. To quote from a letter from Mr. Stedman, 
Acting Farmers Institute Speciahst of the United States Department 
of Agriculture: "The exact date when farmers' institutes were organ- 
ized will never be known because they were an outgrowth of spas- 
modic lectures by different organizations, and only gradually came to be 
recognized as farmers' institutes. As regards women's institutes prac- 
tically the same holds true. Nobody seems to know exactly the year 
when women's institutes first started. They likewise were a gradual 
outgrowth from the farmers' institute work, women having attended 



326 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the meetings from the beginning and gradually sessions were held 
especially for women, and it was not until very recently that any 
attention was given to the matter as having a distinct field or that 
these women's sessions became organized as so-called women's insti- 
tutes." 

In 1908 732 meetings for coimtry women were held by the farmers' 
institute directors in the several states. 

The National Grange, foimded in 1866, in its first "declaration of 
purposes" stated that the first object of the order was "to establish 
a better manhood and womanhood and enhance the comforts and 
attractions of our homes." From the beginning there seems to have 
been a place on the Grange programs for the discussion of home top- 
ics and it is stated that in late years the scientific presentation of them 
by the lecturers has been made very prominent. The National Grange 
Monthly has helped to meet a rapidly growing interest in Home Eco- 
nomics. 

United States Government Work for Home Economics. — Under the 
title United States Government Publications as Sources of Infor- 
mation for Students of Home Economics an article by Dr. C. F, Lang- 
worthy appeared in the June, 1909, number of this Journal. To this 
very valuable summary we will refer our readers. 

The history of the rise and extension of this work, especially in the 
study of nutrition, is a most interesting one and will well repay 
study. The same author has prepared a paper on the Origin and 
Development of the Nutrition Investigations of the Ofl&ce of Exper- 
ment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture, and it may 
be foimd in the Report of the Office of Experiment Stations for 1910, 

A perusal of these articles shows that our debt is especially great 
to Professor W. O. Atwater who did the first work in this country in 
the examination of food materials by modern methods. He was the 
director of the first state agricultural experiment station in 1875 at 
Middletown, Conn., and in 1887 was made director of the Connecti- 
cut Storrs Agricultural Experiment Station where for fourteen years 
under his direction very valuable work was done. At the same time 
he directed the work of the Office of Experiment Stations when it 
was established (1887) and in 1889 that Office began the publication 
of the Farmers' Bulletins of which some 450 have now been published 
in editions that have reached in many cases hundred of thousands. 

The Sttidy of Nutrition. — A matter of prime importance to this move- 
ment must be reckoned the advances in the study of human nutri- 



iQii] Home Economics in the United States 327 

tion in this country. They have been based on similar work done in 
Europe where the beginning was made in the study of farm animals. 
The great name of Liebig is always to be remembered in this connec- 
tion, and in the matter of practical application we date back to that 
remarkable man of American birth, Benjamin Thompson, Count 
Rumford, who in the work which he undertook for the King of Bavaria 
a century and a quarter ago revolutionized the army dietary and that 
of the poor who were dependent on pubUc aid. A full account of his 
work is being prepared for publication in the Journal. 

The pioneer student of nutrition on the physiological side in this 
country was probably John R. Young, who in 1803 wrote for his 
doctor's thesis at the University of Pennsylvania Medical College a 
monograph entitled An Experimental Inquiry into the Principles of 
Nutrition and the Digestive Processes. An account of the man and 
his work was given by Prof. L. B. MendeP and this account was 
re\'iewed by Miss Ellen A. Huntington in the June, 1909, number of 
the Journal (p. 255). 

Next in point of time comes George Stanton Gould, who in 1852 
at the request of the Board of Commissioners of Immigration, pub- 
lished the report of an extended study of dietary and other conditions 
in public institutions entitled A Report of Food and Diet with Obser- 
vations on Dietetic Regimen Suited for Almshouses, Prisons and Hos- 
pitals, also on Heating, Ventilation, etc., with Practical Recommen- 
dations. For an extended account of this early investigator, who 
based his work on the writings of Liebig, Magendie and other Euro- 
peans, see an article by Dr. C. F. Langworthy in the June, 1910, 
number of the Journal. 

We must also note W. Tully's The Nature and Uses of Aliment in 
the Animal Economy (a communication to the M^* " Society of 
Connecticut at New Ha-'-en; in i8ro, Vol. I, pp. 27-43), a general 
article on food and its functions; S. B. Hunt's Remarks on the Constit- 
uents of Food and Drink {Buffalo Medical Journal, 1854, pp. 455- 
457); and Helen C. DeS. Abbot's chemical study of Yucca augusti- 
folia (Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1886, pp. 254-284), this last named 
being interesting because it employs methods of food analysis at a 
rather early period in the work, but particularly because it shows that 
women were doing laboratory work at the time. From this time on 
the work grew rapidly, but it has all been recorded in the publications 

'Popular Science Monthly, 74 (1909) p. 174. 



328 The Journal of Hotne Economics [October 

of the United States Department of Agriculture before referred to, 
and for valuable summaries the Journal is indebted to Dr. C. F. 
Langworthy. 

The Teaching of Home Economics. — We open a quaint chapter of 
almost medieval history when we seek for the first dates in the formal 
teaching (outside of the fair ily circle) of the household arts. In 1668 
Francois de Laval, the first bishop of Canada, according to Parkman 
in The Old Regime in Canada, founded near Quebec a kind of farm 
school for French and Indian boys and here various mechanical trades 
were also taught. At the same time the Ursulines and the Nuns of 
the Congregation of Quebec undertook the training of girls along the 
lines of manual training and what is now grouped under the head of 
Home Economics, so that form.al education in this subject there had 
its beginning. To quote Parkman "we find the king giving to a sis- 
terhood in Montreal a thousand francs to buy wool and a thousand 
more for teaching girls to knit." 

That there was crying need for improvement in the arts of life both 
within and without the primitive hom.e Parkman gives us abundant 
proof, but we do not learn whether these early efforts had any succes- 
sors. 

In the early dates that we have been able to gather in New England 
(see p. 336), one is so very important that it must be singled out. In 
1841 Catharine Beecher published her Treatise on Domestic Economy 
as a part of the Massachusetts School Library, a book which, as the 
author tells us, was "extensively introduced as a text-book into public 
schools and higher female seminaries." It was followed by its sequel, 
The Domestic Receipt Book, which it seem.s was "widely circulated 
by the Harpers in every state of the Union." In 1870 Miss Beecher 
and her sister Harriet Beecher Stowe issued an enlarged edition of the 
treatise entitled Principles of Domestic Science as apphed to the Duties 
and Pleasures of Hom.e, and here we find the whole duty of woman set 
forth with much piety and good sense. 

These books, long since out of print, belong to the classics of Home 
Economics literature. Mrs. Richards in her address at the Tenth Lake 
Placid Conference spoke of Catharine Beccher's forgotten book as the 
true beginning of the Home Economics m.ovem.ent. 

A review of these really remarkable books is being prepared for the 
Journal. We will give but a small abstract from the Treatise — "The 
author of this book was led to attempt it by . . . . the 
deplorable sufferings of multitudes of young wives and mothers from 



igii] Ho7ne Economics in the United States 329 

the combined influence of poor health, poor domestics, and a defec- 
tive domestic education. The measure which more than any other 
would tend to remedy this evil would be to place domestic economy on 
an equahty with other sciences in female schools." 

Home Economics in Higher Schools for Women. — Long before Miss 
Beecher's time the need for teaching the household arts had been 
recognized by at least one educator of advanced \aews. In 18 14 
when Mrs. Emma Willard founded her Female Seminary in Troy, 
N. Y., and printed her Address to the Public, particularly to the Legis- 
lature of New York proposing a Plan for Improving Female Education, 
she discussed in it the defects in the system of women's education 
and included in her plan domestic, as well as literary and religious, 
education. She says "Housewifery might be greatly improved by 
being taught not only in practice but in theory. Why may it not be 
reduced to a system as well as other arts?" But in her efforts to intro- 
duce the teaching of this branch in her school she met with opposition. 

Mr. Henry Fowler, in his article on Educational Services of Mrs. 
Emma Willard (in Henry Barnard's American Journal of Education, 
6, 1859, pp. 125-168), says: "WTiile thus Mrs. Willard was teach- 
ing what had heretofore been considered masculine studies, and thus 
risking the displeasure of those wealthy and fashionable people, on 
whom, disappointed of public aid, she much depended for support, 
she was also testing her popularity by the steps she was taking to 
induct her pupils into the duties of their sex, in regard to housekeep- 
ing; as this might be charged with a degree of wdgarity." In a foot- 
note he adds: 

"In general, when the graduates of the seminary develop into w^omen 
of society and mistresses of families, they have been found imbued 
with the principles, and having acquired the habits which lead to 
good housekeeping. The pupils in their small rooms, each occupied 
by two inmates (carefully assorted, as one of the most delicate duties 
of the principal) are provided with closets, bureaus, etc., so that every- 
thing can be used for its proper purposes, and everything kept in its 
proper place. And they are under a strict surveillance, as each in 
turn is to keep the room in perfect order. This is that their eye may 
become accustomed to order, so as, of itself, to detect the reverse. 
They are required to keep in order their own clothing, and have a set 
time for mending. They took their turns also with the domestic 
superintendent, to learn pastry cooking. Each roommate is in turn 
room-keeper for the week and liable to a fault-mark if the monitress, 



33© The Journal of Home Economics [October 

in her hourly rounds, during school hours, finds anything out of 
order." 

Miss Beecher, in her Treatise, describes in terms of the highest 
commendation the course in domestic economy taught at Monticello 
Female Seminary at Alton, Ills., an institution that held high rank 
and was called the Mt. Holyoke of the West. Each pupil was re- 
quired to spend two hours a day in domestic employment, an amount 
sufficient to accomplish all the work for a family of eight except the 
cooking. She describes the work in the model laundry, where the 
young women learned the art under a competent instructor. 

Mt. Holyoke Seminary, founded by Mary Lyon in 1837, announced, 
as we find in the reproduction of the tiny first annual catalogue, that 
all the members of the school were to aid to some extent in the domestic 
labors of the family "because it is difficult to find hired domestics and 
to retain them any considerable time when found, and because young 
ladies engaged in study suffer much in their vigor and intellectual 
energy for the want of exercise," but it is then added, "it is no part of 
the design of this Seminary to teach young ladies domestic work. 
This branch of education is exceedingly important, but home is the 
proper place for the daughters of our country to be taught this subject." 

Eighteen years later when Elmira Female College received its char- 
ter from the State of New York, the first catalogue (1855) states that 
each student is "required to take additional work in domestic science 
and general household affairs." To quote: "There is an arrangement 
by which domestic science will be taught to each pupil. The more 
severe parts of the work will be performed by domestics. A lady 
peculiarly fitted to give instruction in domestic science has been 
engaged and has under her direction the students who are drilled in all 
that pertains to domestic duties." Such work was called supplemen- 
tary and as it does not appear in the curriculum with other branches 
of study there is no means of knowing just what it comprised. It 
was probably nothing more than housework well taught and super- 
vised. After some ten years it seems to have given way entirely before 
the growing belief that the regular college studies required the entire 
time of the student. "Domestic science" was still a misnomer for 
no connection had been made between household processes and labor- 
atory methods and results. 

Vassar Female College, which received its charter from the same 
state and opened its doors in 1865, seriously discussed the introduction 
of this branch under still another name for we find the question 



iQii] Home Economics in the United States 331 

"How teach the theory and practice of domestic economy?" as num- 
ber eleven in a series of questions addressed in 1861 by President 
Jewett to various educators. The first Vassar prospectus issued 
in 1865 gives the subject extended notice. Here the struggle be- 
tween the old and the new comes to the front. "The household is, 
by common consent, woman's pecuUar province. The art of admin- 
istering its various economies therefore is among the least dispensable 
of her acquisitions." But on the other hand, "Home is the proper 
school for this art." "The trustees are satisfied that a full course in 
the arts of domestic economy cannot be successfully incorporated in 
a system of liberal or college education." After a statement to the 
eJBFect that "it is dangerous to withdraw a young lady from home and 
allow her to form tastes and habits tending to unfit her for her allotted 
sphere," a compromise is offered: (i) Domestic economy is to be 
taught theoretically by text-book and lectures; (2) visible illustrations 
are to be furnished by the college kitchen, larder, dining room; (3) 
personal instruction is to be given to every one who needs it as to care 
of her clothing and room; (4) there will be regular hours for sewing. 

No doubt this concession allayed the fears of timorous opponents of 
higher education for women, but without the scientific backing which 
now gives meaning and value to courses in Home Economics these 
half-hearted attempts at teaching a trade could not hold out against 
the determination of women that their colleges should give not only 
equal but identical training with those of men. In three years hardly 
a vestige of this work remained. 

In 1877 Lasell Seminary in Auburndale, Mass., offered courses in 
cookery, applied housekeeping, sewing, dressmaking, and millin- 
ery, courses which were continued and developed under such pioneers 
as Miss Parloa, Miss Daniell, and Mrs. Lincohi. Here there was no 
question of conflict with college standards and these courses were 
not abandoned. 

In 1890 began the first real attempt to introduce college courses in 
Home Economics which should be on a scientific basis and deal with 
principles rather than with the repeated performance of the details 
of a trade. This was at Wellesley College under Miss Marion Talbot, 
who gave lectures and conducted laboratory work on sanitation and 
dietetics. The work was kept up for two years but was discontinued 
when Miss Talbot became Dean of Women at the new University of 
Chicago where she offered similar instruction. 

Before this time (see p. 336) the agricultural and other colleges 



332 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

admitting both men and women had made great strides in the teach- 
ing of Home Economics. It is not within the scope of this article 
to follow the rapid developments of the later years. 

From the beginning of the Lake Placid Conferences the work of 
formulating and introducing into our system of education, especially 
into the pubhc schcols, proper courses in the various subjects included 
under Home Economics has been the chief interest of its leaders. 

Dates of such introduction have been carefully arranged chrono- 
logically elsewhere in this number (see p. 336) and papers dealing with 
various phases of the question may be found in the published proceed- 
ings of the Lake Placid Conferences and in every number of the Journal 
in the three years of its existence. At first slowly, and of late years 
rapidly, courses have been introduced into the public schools in nearly 
all of our states, into many private schools, into all of the agricultural 
colleges which admit women, into many state universities, and also 
into the normal schools, as the training of teachers for this branch early 
became a necessity. The List of Institutions in the United States 
giving Instruction in Home Econom^ics, a valuable article by Miss 
Marie T. Spethmann appearing in the June, 1 9 1 1 , number of the Journal 
occupies some 30 pages and even then does not include schools for 
Indians and colored people. 

For the last quarter of a century, at every point in this long struggle 
for recognition of Home Economics Mrs. Richards was the general 
directing the forces. What she felt marked the successful termination 
of this effort for recognition was her appointment to the Council of 
the National Education Association in 1910 as vice-president of the 
Manual Training and Art Section in order that she might supervise 
the teaching of Home Economics in the schools of the country during 
the six years to come. For some ten years this branch had been 
given a place in connection with other departments, but the work 
had been desultory. Mrs. Richards felt that the formal recognition 
of Home Economics by the national body was most important and 
that it would soon be followed by the granting of credits on a level 
with other studies. That this is already at hand is evidenced by 
the report made at the San Francisco meeting of the National Edu- 
cation Association in July last by the committee on The Articulation 
of the College and High School. This report recommends that fifteen 
units — each unit representing a year's study in a certain subject — be 
the quantitative requirement for entrance to college. Qualitatively, 
of the total fifteen units, not less than eleven units should consist 



igii] Home Economics in the United States 333 

of English, foreign languages, mathematics, social science, natural sci- 
ence, or other work conducted by recitations and home study. The 
other four units should be left as a margin to be used for additional 
academic work or for mechanic arts, household science, commercial 
work, or any other kind of activity that the best interests of the 
student appear to require. 

With the full acceptance of these branches of study as being, when 
properl)' taught, "mentally nutritive," effort ceases along certain lines 
and concentrates on those far more important. These courses are 
now to be made more vital, more in touch with the best scientific 
thought. In short, the Home Economics movement has entered on 
a new phase. 

Home Economics in Women's Clubs. — Home Economics in the Gen- 
eral Federation of Women's Clubs is thus described by the president 
of that organization, Eva Perry Moore. 

At Louisville, in 1896, Mrs. John Vance Cheney gave a talk upon 
Home Economics. In Denver, 1898, greetings were brought from 
the National Household Economics Association. In Milwaukee, 
igoo, there was a special department under Mrs. James H. Whitmore 
of Denver, Colorado, but no work was reported from clubs. Mrs. 
Walter McNab Miller spoke at that time. In Los Angeles, 1902, 
greetings were brought again by Mrs. Linda Hull Earned, of New York 
State, from the Household Economics Association. 

In St. Louis, 1904, the department came again to the front,with 
Mrs. A. C. Neville as Chairman, who presented a report, but with 
very httle return from the states. In St. Paul, 1906, the department 
was thoroughly organized, and Mrs. Mary Moody Pugh of Omaha, 
Nebraska, was Chairman. In Boston, 1908, Mrs. Margaret J. Blair, 
of St. Paul, Minn., was the Chairman. Mrs. Decker felt that the 
department was far from successful and should be carried on rather 
in the states than in the General Federation. She made the recom- 
mendation that it should be abandoned, but this was lost, and it has 
been most successfully carried on since that time by Mrs. O. N. 
Guldlin. 

Mrs. Richards did not come into the work until Mrs. Miller was 
appointed Chairman of the sub-committee of Household Economics 
called Food Sanitation. I think Mrs. Richards was identified with 
her from the beginning in all the work that she attempted, and she was 
asked particularly to speak, as was Mrs. Abel, at the meeting in Boston, 



334 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

in 1908. Mrs. Richards has been a most helpful force in all of Mrs. 
Guldlin's work. 

Reports for 19 10 recently received furnished the following statis- 
tics as to the present status of the movement: During the last two 
years 720 clubs held one or more sessions on Home Economics; 371 
clubs have Home Economics departments; 278 have regular lectures, 
demonstrations, or short courses; 257 helped materially in creating 
sentiment that estabUshed Home Economics in the public schools; 
and 104 did some kind of philanthropic or educational work in Home 
Economics in cities. 

Home Economics in the Association of Collegiate Alumnae. — The 
following data are furnished by Professor Marian Talbot of the 
University of Chicago: 

Mrs. Richards was the guiding spirit in the formation of the Asso- 
ciation of Collegiate Alumnae in 188 1. In this organization the first 
subject considered was the health of the college students, and Mrs. 
Richards was in part responsible for the first circular issued. This 
presented the low standards of the colleges in regard to physical 
education and made a strong plea for attention to the physical basis 
of the college student's life. This was followed by a leaflet, Health 
in Preparatory Schools, with blanks to be filled in by teachers and 
parents. 

The records of this association show that in the following year 
she led in a discussion on The Effect of the Amusements and Occu- 
pations of Girls in their School Life. 

She was one of the members who organized the Sanitary Science 
Club of the association and published in collaboration with Marian 
Talbot the book Home Sanitation. By this time her conviction 
that the scientific aspects of housekeeping must receive more atten- 
tion from women had become firmly fixed and she continued to keep 
the subjects before the association. In 1890 she presented a paper 
on The Relation of College Women to Progress in Domestic Science, 
and close upon this followed Household Industries outside the Home, 
practical suggestions for Applied Economics and Sociology in the 
College Curriculum, and Desirable Tendencies in Education for 
Women. In 1901 as chairman of the committee on Home Economics 
of the Boston Branch she helped raise a scholarship of $400 for the 
Boston School of Housekeeping and arranged an exhibit of contri- 
butions of college women to Home Economics. Later this was 



19 1 1] Home Economics in the United States 335 

developed into the Mary Lowell Stone Home Economics exhibit 
which was for two years under the charge of the association and its 
branches. Her best work in this direction for the association was 
as chairman of the committee on euthenics, the aim of which was 
to suggest immediate and practical ways of increasing the efficiency 
of the individual. 

Graduate School in Home Economics. — This school had its origin 
eight years ago when Professor Atwater of the Office of Experiment 
Stations opened his laboratories at Middletown, Connecticut, to teach- 
ers of domestic science, inviting them to study there four weeks and 
to get in touch with the investigations in nutrition which the govern- 
ment was making. It chanced that in that same year a call was given 
for graduates in agriculture to gather at Ohio State University, to do 
advanced work and in these two meetings the graduate schools of 
Home Economics and agriculture had their beginnings. No further 
sessions of the schools were held until 1906, at which time the Ameri- 
can Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations 
decided to assume control of the Graduate School of Agriculture and 
to make it a permanent institution which should hold biennial sessions 
in different colleges of the United States. 

Fortunately for the Home Economics movement, the place selected 
for the next meeting of the School of Agriculture was the University 
of Illinois, where Professor Bevier had already developed a strong 
course in Home Economics. Through her efforts and the generosity 
of the imiversity a Graduate School in Home Economics was held in 
connection with the School of Agriculture. From that time on the 
two schools, which are similar in purpose yet sufficiently different in 
the subjects which they present to offer an interesting interchange 
of attractions, have met together. They met in 1908 at Cornell Uni- 
versity and in 1910 at the Iowa State College of Agriculture. 

By vote of the American Home Economics Association at its St. 
Louis meeting the Graduate School of Home Economics has now 
become a part of the Association activities. Plans are now being 
formulated for a 191 2 session at the Michigan State Agricultural 
College. 



DATES AND EVENTS IN THE HISTORY OF THE HOME 
ECONOMICS MOVEMENT/ 

1789 . Girls in Boston public schools are allowed to spend some school 
time on needle work under direction. 

1 82 1. Mrs. Emma Willard begins the teaching of household arts in 
Troy Female Seminary. 

1835. Boston girls of second and third grammar grades are taught 
sewing. 

1840. Catharine Beecher wrote A Treatise on Domestic Economy. 

1854. Sewing is extended to the fourth grade in Boston schools 
under a special instructor. 

1859-60. Prof. Blot gives lessons in cooking in several large cities. 

1862. Federal land-grant (Morrill Act) passes for colleges "to teach 
such branches of learning as are related to agriculture and 
the mechanic arts in order to promote the liberal and prac- 
tical education of the industrial classes in the several 
pursiuts and professions of life." 

1870. Massachusetts legislature passes an act making drawing oblig- 
atory in the public schools of the State. This marked 
the beginning of industrial training. 
Miss Clare de Grafifenried studies household budgets of Low- 
ell factory mill workers. An act of the Massachusetts 
legislature legahzes sewing and other industrial education 
in the towns and cities of the state. 

1872. The Woman's Education Association is formed in Boston 

with standing committees on industrial, esthetic, moral, 
and physical education. 

1873. Sewing is introduced into Kansas State Agricultural College. 
Miss Corson first gives lessons in New York City. 

A teacher of sewing is appointed in the Winthrop School, 
Boston. 

1874. Sewing is given in the Vacation School, Providence, R. I. 
Starting point of the New York Cooking School under the 

management of Miss Corson. 
Joanna Sweeney gives lessons in cooking in Boston. 

^ This list of dates is known to be very imperfect and the editor hopes to receive 
many corrections and additions. Manual and industrial training has been inti- 
mately connected with the development of Home Economics, and dates of its 
introduction into the educational system have therefore been admitted. 

33^ 



iQii] Dates in the History of Home Economics 337 

1875. Domestic science with lectures on the chemistry of cooking 

is introduced into Kansas State Agricultural College under 
Mrs. Nellie Kedzie. 
1875-6. Domestic science with a four years' course is introduced 
into the University of Illinois. 

1876. At the State Agricultural College of Iowa a department of 

domestic economy is introduced through Mrs. Mary B. 

Welch, the first teacher. 
School of Mechanic Arts founded in Boston by vote of the 

corporation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Miss Parloa's first pubhc lecture, in New London. 

1877. Lasell Seminary opens courses in domestic science under 

Miss Maria Parloa. 

Manual training is advocated in Rhode Island schools. 

The Industrial School Association of Boston starts a school. 
The object of the society is to demonstrate the practica- 
bility of industrial training in the public school. 

The Woman's Education Association of Boston establishes 
a school of carving, modelling, etc., with the same object 
as the school of the Industrial School Association. 

Miss Parloa gives her first lectm-e in Boston, and holds pri- 
vate classes, giving impetus for Boston Cooking School. 

Miss Emily Huntington makes, in New York, the first experi- 
ment in kitchen gardens. 

1878 . Miss Devereau (a pupil of Miss Parloa) goes to teach cooking 

at the New Century Club, Philadelphia. 
An experiment is begun in Gloucester, Mass., with a view 

to introducing manual training into the public schools. 
Miss Corson gives lectm^es to some nurses in Washington, 

D. C, also lectures in IndianapoHs, Ind. 

1879. Mrs. Rorer takes charge of the cooking in the New Century 

Club, Philadelphia. 

Miss Parloa gives lessons at the Chautauqua summer school. 

The Woman's Education Association, Boston, opens the Bos- 
ton Cooking School. 

Raleigh, N. C, cooking school is estabhshed by Mrs. Helen 
Campbell. 

The subject of industrial education is brought before the city 
coimcil of Boston, but the proposition is defeated. 

Miss Corson gives lessons in Peoria, Illinois. 



338 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

1880 . The Kitchen Garden Association of New York is incorporated. 
In Boston, cooking is first taught to public school children, 

under the auspices of the Y. W. C. A. 
Maniial training is offered for both sexes in the schools of 
Montclair, N. J. 

1881 . In Peru, 111., sewing is taught girls in the public schools. 
First mission school of cookery is opened in Washington, D. C. 
A kitchen garden is introduced by Mrs. Hemenway in a sum- 
mer school in Boston. The first manual vacation school 
is also opened. 

First legislation in New Jersey on Manual training. The 
report states that sewing had been taught in the schools 
for several years before this date. 

1883 . Rose Polytechnic Institute opened at Terre Haute, Ind. 
Sewing is taught in the public schools in Springfield, Mass. 

1883-4. Vacation schools in manual training are held in Boston and 
Brookline. Instruction in the industries is deemed most 
desirable for women. 

1884 . The Industrial Education Association of New York is formed 

from the Kitchen Garden Association. 

Girls are taught domestic science in the Toledo High School. 

The first industrial training for girls in a public high school. 

1884-5. An epoch in the New York pubHc school system — the 

appointment of a committee of the Board of Education 

to plan ways and means on industrial studies. 

Report from New Haven, Conn. Manual training for boys 
and girls is now being extended through all the grades. 

T. A. Litchfield, of Newport R. I., recommends that the city 
coimcil make provision for sewing for girls and carpentry 
for boys. 

In Minneapohs, Minn., the subject of industrial education 
brought before the school board. 

Industrial training is taken up in the Normal School in Phila- 
delphia and in Salem, Mass. 

In Oakland, Cal., the committee on industrial education re- 
solves to make an experiment in introducing cooking into 
the public schools. 

1885 . First report of the New York Industrial Education Association. 

Fifteen classes in domestic science are held in private 
schools and girls' clubs. 



igii] Dates in the History of Home Economics 339 

Two cooking schools for girls are opened in Boston, one by Mrs. 

Quincy A. Shaw and one by Mrs. Mary Hemenway. 
South Dakota Agricultural College organizes a four-year 

course for women leading to the B. S. degree. 
Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y., is opened. 
One grade of the high school, San Francisco, Cal., is taught 

domestic economy one hour a week. 
1885-6. Provision is made for industrial training in Iowa. 
The question is agitated in Portland, Maine. 
Industrial work in the grades is given in Madison, Wis. 

1886. The second annual report of the Industrial Education Asso- 

ciation of New York shows great progress in the work. 
Industrial classes in the public schools of Hoboken, N. J., 
are started under the influence of the above association. 
The association opens a house with an information ofl&ce 
on nth street and teaches public school children and teach- 
ers, also conducts a school for servants, and a graded 
course in sewing. The first vacation classes in New York 
are begim under the association. 

A children's industrial exhibit in New York is organized by 
the association. Specimens of work from Chicago, Cleve- 
land, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Boston, Worcester, and 
other centers had marked influence in spreading the work. 

The association leases the former building of Union Semin- 
ary at University Place and opens it December 4. 

1887. The New York College for Training Teachers is organized 

by the association with Nicholas Murray Butler as presi- 
dent. This later became Teachers College, Columbia 
University. The training of teachers for Home Economics 
is emphasized. 

The Newport (R. I.) Industrial School for Girls is started. 

The beginning of Pratt Institute is made. 

Manual training is introduced into the public schools of Wash- 
ington, D. C, this including drawing, sewing, cooking, etc. 

The Boston Public School Board accepts Mrs. Hemenway's 
school under the name of Boston School Kitchen No. i. 

1888. The Boston Normal School of Household Arts is established 

by Mrs. Hemenway. 
Legislation in New York State empowers local school author- 
ities to establish manual training departments. The state 



340 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

normal school is required to include courses in the prin- 
ciples underlying manual training. 
A course in manual training is initiated in the Boston public 
schools (primary) by Louisa P. Hopkins. 

1889. The New York Kindergarten Association is formed. 

The Eliot School, Jamaica Plain, Mass., ofifers instruction 
in woodwork to public school pupils. 

Dr. Edward Atkinson pubHshes a description of the Aladdin 
Oven, the forerunner of the fireless cooker, and other devices 
for cooking at a low temperature in an insulated chamber. 

1890. The New England Kitchen is started in order to apply scien- 

tific principles to the cooking of the cheaper food materials. 
Manual training is ordered in all primary schools of Boston. 
1 890-1 . A course in sanitation and dietetics is introduced into Wel- 
lesley College under Miss Marion Talbot. 

1891 . Drexel Institute is founded. 

The City Council of Boston makes an appropriation for the 

Mechanics Arts High School. 
A cooking and sewing school for children, selected from the 

public schools, is established in Baltimore, Md., by members 

of the Society of Friends. 

1892. The New England Kitchen, Boston, forms classes under Miss 

Maria Daniell for study of economics and sanitary 
cooking. 

1893 . Armour Institute is opened. 

A course in Home Economics is offered at the University 

of Chicago. 
The National Household Economic Association holds its 
first of ten annual meetings in Chicago (see Journal of 
Home Economics, April, 1909, p. 185). 
1893-4. Mrs. Helen Campbell, appointed lecturer on Home Eco- 
nomics, University of Wisconsin extension course. 

1894. The Boston School Board votes "that only such foods as are 

approved" by them "shall be sold in the city school 
houses." Luncheons prepared at the New England 
Kitchen under supervision of Mrs. Richards are served at 
nine high schools, (see Journal of Home Economics, 
April, 1910, p. 181.) 
The Nutrition Investigations of the United States Department 
of Agriculture are authorized by Congress and work is begun 



igii] Dates in the History of Home Economics 341 

under direction of Prof. W. O. Atwater under the auspices 
of the OflSce of Experiment Stations. The work centered 
in Middletown, Conn., and involved cooperation with 
Wesleyan University, the Connecticut (Storrs) Experiment 
Station, and other institutions. 

i8g6. The Thomas S. Clarkson Memorial School of Technology is 
founded at Potsdam, N. Y., with a four year course in do- 
mestic engineering. 

1897. The University of Tennessee introduces domestic science. 
The University of Idaho introduces domestic science. 
The School of Housekeeping in Boston is founded by the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union. 

1898 The beginning of domestic science in St. Louis pubUc schools. 
A summer course of lectures on house care is given to the 
teachers of cookery in the Boston pubhc schools. 

1899. The Lake Placid Conference holds its first meeting at Lake 
Placid, N. Y., September 19-23. Annual meetings were 
held until 1908. 

1902 . Simmons College opens and adopts School of Housekeeping. 

1903. The Manhattan Trade School for Girls is founded. In 1910 

it is made a part of the New York City Schools 
The Household Aid Company of the Woman's Education 
Association of Boston began its experiment in furnishing 
trained household workers by the hour. 

1905 . The Boston Trade School for Girls is established. 

The first meeting of the Teaching Section of the Lake Placid 
Conference on Home Economics is held at Pratt Institute. 

1906. The Nutrition Investigations of the Office of Experiment 

Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture, are transferred 
from Middletown, Conn., to Washington, D. C, and reor- 
ganized under the direction of Dr. C. F. Langworthy. 
1909 . The American Home Economics Association is organized at 
Washington, D. C. 



MRS. RICHARDS AND THE HOME ECONOMICS 
MOVEMENT. 

Mary H. Abel. 

Mrs. Richards' Scientific Training. — It is of first importance to note 
the broad training which Mrs. Richards brought to the service of 
Home Economics. She was wont to say "the fundamental require- 
ment for progress in applying science is the acquisition of science to 
apply." If we scan the many papers published and unpublished that 
she has left behind we find very many of them sounding this note. 
She urged in season and out of season the study of science by women 
and she gave her strength to investigation along broad lines, largely 
mimicipal and educational. 

Strange as it may seem to some of the readers of the Journal, 
her work in Home Economics vmtil her later years was confined to 
occasional talks and papers in her "play-time" outside her regular 
work. Home Economics has never been taught by her or by any one 
else at the Institute of Technology and Mrs. Richards' classes were not 
made up of women. 

In her college life her interest in science was awakened, in the depart- 
ment of chemistry by Professor Charles S. Farrar, and in astronomy 
by Professor Maria Mitchell, but chemistry with its important bear- 
ings on practical life was destined to absorb her attention. In Mrs. 
Richards' first year in the Institute, John D. Philbrick, the noted 
school superintendent of Boston, watching her work in the chemical 
laboratory said to her: "What good do you expect this will do you 
in the kitchen?" This brusque inquiry while it irritated the young 
scientist also set her to thinking. " Why, indeed, should not chemistry 
be applied in the household?" From this time on the desire to apply 
science to the improvement of daily life grew and she became more 
and more prepared to meet opportunities as they offered themselves. 
Her first work in this line was in sanitation, a subject that never ceased 
to engage her liveliest interest. To quote Prof. H. P. Talbot of the 
Institute of Technology: 

"Her contributions to sanitary science are so many and important 
that they would seem of themselves to constitute a sufficient achieve- 
ment for a busy Hfe." 

342 



igii] Mrs. Richards and Home Economics 343 

It was on account of the discipline and training furnished by her 
scientific work that Mrs. Richards was enabled to guide the new 
applied science so wisely and to keep its standards on such a high 
plane. Dr. Langworthy has said that Mrs. Richards' work for Home 
Economics may well be compared with that of Liebig's for agriculture. 
"To Liebig belongs the credit more than to anyone else for bringing 
together isolated facts and adding to them so as to produce the new 
subject of agricultural chemistry, which is almost the same thing as 
saying 'agriculture' as we understand it at the present time. In the 
same way Mrs. Richards more than anyone else brought together a 
great many known facts and added a new member, Home Economics, 
to the group of subjects which a man or a woman may select for seri- 
ous study as well as for practical appUcation. I suppose that this 
is what always happens when a new branch of learning is definitely 
estabUshed, Someone must have brought together a great number 
of facts from mathematics and physics and other subjects to mark 
off the bounds of the subject of mechanical engineering. Home 
Economics is a subject worthy of comparison with others which have 
been recognized for a long time, as evidenced from the fact that it 
may be approached in the same way as older subjects, namely, from 
a scientific, from a technical, and from a practical standpoint." 

The Home Her Chief Interest. — It is not too much to say that in 
her later years one thought and interest so predominated in Mrs. 
Richards as to make it the center. She considered the American 
home the most precious development of civilization, and to preserve 
its essentials while helping to adjust it to the demands of our age 
became with her an absorbing passion. It is the cradle of the child, 
the resting place of old age, the retreat in which the worker is to be 
refreshed physically and spiritually for the day to come. If ruled 
with firmness and love and intelligence it becomes the nursery of all 
the virtues, something unspeakably precious in the world. In her 
view this ideal became the meeting point for all movements — all 
roads led to this desired end. 

Thus, health in the individual as the foundation of efficiency becomes 
a pre-requisite, therefore every move toward hygiene, public and pri- 
vate, pure water, well ventilated school rooms, healthful dress and well 
constructed houses all have a definite relation to the home. The food 
becomes a prime factor and to its choice and preparation constant 
attention must be paid, importance also attaches to good form and 
color in furnishing and that orderly life so steadying to the nerves. 



344 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

And as more and more effort must center on the woman who is to rule 
this home, and education becomes so important as to overshadow all 
other issues, the education of the mature woman through extension 
courses — in clubs, in Farmers' Institutes, through the press, but most 
of all the education of the woman of the coming generation, as she is 
passing through the schools. 

This attitude explains the apparently diverse character of the sub- 
jects that have been admitted under Home Economics. Welcome all 
that has to do with education of hand and eye, especially in its 
application to daily life, courses in applied sociology which set the 
family in its true place, and that side of economics which has for its 
theme consumption of wealth rather than its creation, with the 
satisfaction of wants and the comparison of values all of which has 
so large a place in the family life. 

Having in mind this broad foundation, she welcomed the entrance 
of women into industry and the training for it, not alone because it 
had become an economic necessity but because in no other way can 
the worth of the woman's time in the home have the proper value 
put upon it. She did not say in the old way to the women "stay in 
your home" — she realized, none better, that the woman of today 
could not learn inside those walls that adjustment to the new time 
which would be required of her. Hence her sympathy with women 
who studied methods in the world of business and tried to apply them 
to the technical side of housekeeping. She had great confidence that 
the young woman and esperially the young college woman, because 
of her general training, would yet be the best housekeeper and home 
maker. "We are trying to adapt ourselves to changed conditions," 
she said. "Do not let any one frighten or browbeat you out of 
that position." 

She held the view that industrial changes had so profoundly altered 
the home environment of a generation ago that the teaching of the 
housewife and mother must be taken up by the school in order that 
the best methods of sanitary science should be at the service of the 
people. Even the care of babies, once considered to come to a mother 
by the light of nature, she urged long ago, when the idea was so new 
as to shock the conservative, should be taught in regular classes to 
all girls and women. 

She held that the most valuable part of our American citizens are 
in that million or more groups in which the man of the family earns 
enough to keep the house, and where the woman, put beyond the 



igii] Mrs. Richards and Home Economics 345 

need of doing all the housework with her own hands, has the power of 
choice as to what she shall do with a part of her time. Will she ably 
supervise the work and instruct in the best methods, give that time 
and thought necessary to develop the home spirit and hospitality, 
see that all the expenditures, including those for the higher Kfe, are 
planned to come within the income — so that all the needs of the differ- 
ent members are met — will she develop, in fact, that administrative 
talent which rules and utilizes all? 

Thus along an immensely extended line she watched the struggle 
of the new with the old. She was a true general, taking every coign 
of vantage, adhering to no preconceived plan if a better was presented. 
Unperturbed she accepted failure in one quarter and threw her forces 
into another. At one time all her interest seemed to center around 
the food question, as in the years when she watched over the New 
England Kitchen and all that grew out of it; then the question of 
housing absorbed her attention, but no former interest was shelved. 
She was an opportunist, she followed whatever line of a dozen good 
ones was most open at the moment, and was quick to seize an oppor- 
tunity, as when the time was ripe and the means at hand for the 
introduction of limches properly chosen and cooked into the public 
schools of Boston. She was never deterred by that bugbear of small 
minds, the fear of inconsistency. 

None knew better than she the many ways in which public opinion 
was to be moulded and the attention of the community drawn to Home 
Economics. Eminently social in nature she was personally acquainted 
with an immense number of people representing many groups and 
interests, and they all learned through her something of this new 
applied science and many became in their turn radiating centers of 
interest and knowledge in their different communities. Her own 
talks given in many regions always sowed live seed. 

Every opportunity in the educational field was utilized and her per- 
sistence conquered many an apparently hopeless situation. In 1901 
Miss Alice Ravenhill was sent by the Technical Instruction Committee 
of West Riding, Yorkshire County, England, to study the methods of 
teaching Home Economics and hygiene in this country. This very 
fact, bringing as it did the stamp of approval of such studies from an 
older civilization, Mrs. Richards was ready to utilize to the utmost, 
and in the person of Miss Ravenhill, highly cultivated and full of 
enthusiasm, she found a firm ally. It was determined that Miss 
Ravenhill should go with Miss Marlatt to the National Education 



346 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Association meeting in Cleveland in July of that year, and appear at 
a round table where the subject of Home Economics would have an 
opportunity to plead for a department of its own on the yearly program. 
This plea, given with great skill by both of the envoys, proved to be 
the entering wedge. 

For all this work she needed and she possessed the complement of 
her scientific training, her practical knowledge of living conditions. 
This knowledge was thorough and had been gained at first hand. 
She had spent her youth on a New England farm and in her subse- 
quent years passed in a large city and in extensive travel she 
had watched the changes wrought in the life of town and city. As 
Professor Sedgwick said, "Other women may become experts in water 
analysis and preside over laboratories but no one hereafter can pos- 
sibly gain the peculiar historic equipment which fell to Mrs. Richards. 
Other women, may, and no doubt will, make addresses and write books 
upon sanitation and homes, but no one else can ever do these things 
as Mrs. Richards did them, for the reason that she was herself an evo- 
lution and represented an epoch." 

In her dealings with people, Mrs. Richards was large and tolerant. 
One did not have to be wholly deserving to get her help, nor wholly 
efificient in order to be admitted to her band of workers. All were 
welcomed and put on trial. Her practical sense noted instantly qual- 
ities or lacks that would affect efiiciency for a given post or work, her 
judgment seemed to be entirely impersonal. "Learn to look at 
people for what they can do, not for what they cannot," she once 
said and it taught a great lesson. She could utilize many grades of 
service, and only double dealing or treachery wholly discredited a 
person in her eyes. She had the gift of silence, but anyone who wanted 
to know the truth of her, to get the "honest answer" was never dis- 
appointed. 

She had watched so many movements, she knew so well at what 
waste and loss progress is made, that she was never impatient or de- 
spondent over failures and delays. She did her own part, however, 
with unwearied care, she never disappointed those with whom she 
worked, she was reliable to the last degree. 

The full explanation of her great influence was due to many quali- 
ties which combined to make her the most helpful of friends and coun- 
sellors. "She never failed me." "The news of her death was such a 
shock that for a while I felt that I could not go on." There was wide- 
spread confidence that in any given line of work she knew the elements 



igii] Mrs. Richards and Home Economics 347 

that bring success, where to hold fast to essentials and where to yield 
to local or personal preferences. Like the born leader that she was 
she could inspire courage and confidence even where she knew that 
the risks were great. 

Her largeness of view did not forbid that grasp of detail which is 
essential to success. Scrawled at the top of a page containing meager 
notes for a talk, stand the following words, evidently to be passed on 
to some friend who was to assist in the debut of a new speaker: 
" Stand in the door, can she be heard? Does she look trim and attrac- 
tive — the first five minutes does it." 

An examination of the correspondence that passed between her and 
the secretary of our Association for weeks previous to an annual meet- 
ing, showed this same grasp of detail, a positive genius in foreseeing 
every diflSculty and emergency; hotels, assembly rooms, social engage- 
ments, excursions, assignment of duties to the most competent help- 
ers, all received attention as well as the careful working out of the 
program. 

Her characteristic foresight not only insured the success of future 
plans, it gave zest to her present work, making of tendencies a fascin- 
ating study; thus, what others counted failure was but an incident; 
in the main body of the experiment the next move was unfolding. 
She saw twenty-five years ago the important part that prevention of 
disease and sanitary science in general was yet to play, hopes that only 
in the last five years have met fulfillment. She saw that in a thousand 
ways public opinion could be educated; to seek out every available 
means to that end and to enlist and inspire helpers became one of her 
chief interests. This is shown by her early activity in the Association 
of Collegiate Alumnae as told on page 334 and the American PubUc 
Health Association to whose meetings she contributed valuable papers 
at almost every meeting; and in the Health Education League which 
she helped to found in 1904 and five of whose booklets she wrote. 

Mrs. Richards' style of writing has a peculiarly tonic effect on the 
reader. A passion for ethical truth breathes through it, an ardor that 
is perhaps all the more contagious because it is evoked for purposes 
that are generally called practical. One feels that the basis is sound, 
not visionary, and that a discriminating rrind places proper value on 
the objects of her desire. All these qualities are seen to the full in 
her last contribution to the Journal, the Social Significance of the 
Hom.e Economics Movement, and published in the issue of April, 191 1. 
The style is condensed and suggestive rather than flowing. It has 



348 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

a certain stimulating quality, you feel that she treats the subject for 
no other reason than that to her mind it is of the greatest importance 
that it should be treated. As she was wont to say about the series of 
little books on the Cost of Shelter, Food, Cleanness, etc., she had waited 
in vain for someone else to write them and they "had to be done." 

She was especially successful in separating the principle from a mass 
of irrelevant detail. Her illustrations were sketched and suggestive 
rather than fully worked out. There was nothing to get out of date, 
the essays can inspire still another generation living in different sur- 
roundings. 

The effect produced by her lectures was increased by her personaUty 
— it was not to be explained or defined — even those not interested in 
the subject felt it. As one woman said, "I've never thought of those 
things, and a week after the lecture I couldn't remember what she's 
said, but the effect remained. It stirred me up to be more efficient." 
I have never known a better illustration than she furnished of the fact 
that what a person is inevitably adds to the power of the spoken word. 

Such was the woman to whom was due more than to any other per- 
son the present standards and the ideals for the future of this new 
science of home making. 



ORGANIZATIONS FOR THE PROMOTION OF 
HOME ECONOMICS. 

Scattered efforts must sooner or later be gathered into an organiza- 
tion. Not till then is united work possible and a movement begins 
to make real progress, especially in the education of pubhc opinion. 

NATIONAL HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The organization that led the way was the National Household Eco- 
nomics Association which held its first meeting in Chicago, October 24, 
1892, the year before the Columbian Exposition, when so many pro- 
jects were launched. Mrs. John Wilkinson of Chicago was the first 
president and Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin honorary president. It had 
for its aim: 

" (i) To awaken the pubhc mind to the importance of estabUsh- 
ing bureaus of information where there can be an exchange of wants 
and needs between employer and employed, in every department of 
home and social life. 

" (2) To promote among members of the Association, a more 
scientific knowledge of the economic value of various foods and fuels, 
a more intelligent understanding of correct plumbing and drainage 
in our homes, as well as need for pure water and good Ught in a sani- 
tarily built house. 

" (3) To secure skilled labor in every department of our homes 
and to organize schools of household science and service." 

At this first meeting papers were presented by Mrs. Helen Starrett 
on Possibilities of Reform through Organization and Cooperation 
among Housekeepers, by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel on the Elevation 
of Domestic Labor to the Dignity of Trades and Professions, by Mrs. 
Melusina Fay Pierce on Cooperative Housekeeping, by Mrs. Kate 
Gannett Wells on Economic Organization, by Mrs. Herbert and Mrs. 
Remick on the Greater SimpHcity in Living, and by Dr. Lieba Bedell 
on How to Ease the Burdens of Domestic Life. It is remembered by 
one who was present that whatever the title of the paper the speaker 
always came around to the servant question, but that the opinion was 

349 



3SO 1'he Journal of Home Economics [October 

general that the housewives were themselves to blame for the situa- 
tion and by united action must find the remedy. It does not seem 
to have dawned upon these pioneers that a generation would pass 
without the remedy being found for these practical difi&culties and 
that the educational possibilities of Home Economics would by that 
time have taken the center of the stage. Mrs. Linda Hull Larned, 
the last president, described this organization in the April, 1909, num- 
ber of the Journal, It held ten annual meetings and was then merged 
in the Home Economics work of the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs which it had done much to foster. 

Two great organizations followed: The Lake Placid Conference, 
with its record of ten useful years, and the American Home Economics 
Association, now in its third year. 

These associations, together with Mrs. Richards' intimate relation 
to them, are described elsewhere. 

MRS. ELLEN H. RICHARDS: HER RELATION TO THE 
LAKE PLACID CONFERENCE ON HOME ECONOMICS. 

The small gathering of earnest pioneers (seven from outside with 
four Lake Placid Club members) who met in an Adirondack boathouse 
in September, 1899, were fortunate in having as chairman a born 
leader, a woman who united just those qualities most necessary to 
inspire enthusiasm and confidence, to discover special gifts in others, 
and to direct them into channels where they would be most efiFective. 

During a social visit to the club the previous summer, Mrs. Rich- 
ards was asked to speak informally to a few members on the ever 
present domestic problem and out of this grew the suggestion for 
a serious conference of trained workers, whose deliberations might 
have increased influence through imited action. Of this small group, 
four have already passed over to the majority. Miss Emily Hunting- 
ton, Maria Parloa, Maria Daniell and Mrs. Richards. The others 
who took part in the first gathering were Miss Anna Barrows, Mrs, 
W. V, Kellen, Miss Louisa A. Nicholass, Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Mrs. 
W, G, Shailer, and Mr, and Mrs, Melvil Dewey. 

There had been organized effort for improvement of the home, 
dating from the Woman's Congress at the Columbian Exposition 
in 1893, when a national association was formed with branches and 
state chairmen, but possible solutions of the many difficulties the 
problems presented were still vague. Prof. W. 0. Atwater (a guest 



iQii] Mrs. Richards and the Lake Placid Conference 351 

at the Club in 1899) was most helpful in encouraging and advising 
such a meeting and said: "The science of household economics is 
now in what chemists call a state of supersaturated solution which 
needs to crystallize out. Sometimes the point of a needle will start 
such crystallization." To Mrs. Richards' personal touch is largely 
due the wonderful progress made since that day. 

With her recognition of the need came the clear vision of the remedy. 
With changing industrial and economic conditions, the home, the unit 
of society, was faiUng to meet the needs of better citizenship. Dis- 
integration of the family was seen on every side. There was fright- 
ful waste of human efficiency because of ignorance of right living and 
overwork under wrong conditions. To reach the lives of the people, 
she recognized that the whole general scheme of education, from grade 
school through college life, must incorporate courses of study and 
methods of presenting subjects within the range of daily life and per- 
sonal apphcation, affecting ideals of conduct to be carried into what- 
ever occupation or business might follow later. Such courses must 
be correlated and carried through education from the earliest years, 
developing knowledge of the true relation of things to the welfare of 
the individual and gi\ing to the people a sense of control over their 
environment. 

From the beginning the purpose of the Lake Placid Conference was 
educational, deaUng with the economic and sociologic study of the 
home and with the problems of right Uving. Its keynote was "effi- 
ciency through health." 

In her admirable paper Ten Years of the Lake Placid Conference 
on Home Economics; Its History and Aims,^ Mrs. Richards summa- 
rizes concisely the essential subjects discussed in the programs of these 
early years: "Training of teachers of domestic science; courses of 
study for grade schools as well as colleges and universities; state, 
agricultural, evening, and vacation schools; extension teaching; rural 
school work; Home Economics in women's clubs with syllabuses to 
aid such study; manual training in education for citizenship." All 
these lead toward higher education and better living, in short to the 
new science of Euthenics, as an essential preliminary to the study of 
the better race, a study to which Mr. Francis Galton has given the 
name Eugenics. From the very first special emphasis was laid on 
the educational possibilities of this work. 

' Proceedings Lake Placid Conference, 1908, pp. 19-25. 



352 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

A classification of the material included in the general subject 
Home Economics as a working basis, together with correct nomen- 
clature and annotated bibliographies were recognized among the first 
needs. Domestic science at farmers' institutes, simplified methods 
of housekeeping, standards of living in the conduct of the home and 
in relation to sanitary science, household industrial problems, labor 
sa\'ing appliances, cost of living, standards of wages, have all been 
discussed. 

Programs have included the food problem in its many phases 
from fads and fancies to protein metaboHsm and mineral matter 
required by the human body; nutrition, sanitation, hygiene, progress 
in work for public health represented by the work of the Health Edu- 
cation League and the Committee of One Hundred on national health, 
leading to eflQciency as the keynote of the twentieth century. 

Economics in trade and professional schools, Home Economics 
in training schools for nurses, the hospital dietitian and the status 
of institution managers, reports of experiments in dietetics under 
many auspices, cooperation with the work of the U. S. Department 
of Agriculture, particularly with the nutrition investigations of the 
Ofl&ce of Experiment Stations, reports from the American School of 
Home Economics, even psychic factors affecting Home Economics 
and cost of living have been considered. 

Besides important reports of the teaching section and standing 
committees, each meeting aimed to concentrate the best thoughts 
of leading workers on one special subject in order that the discussions 
each year might count as distinct progress in some limited part of 
the field. Mrs. Richards' strong personality attracted speakers 
eminent in educational and scientific work who gave their best freely 
at her request. 

Two conferences were held by special invitation outside of Lake 
Placid, one at Boston in 1903 and one at Chautauqua in 1908. In 
Boston a joint session was held with the Manual Training Section of 
the National Education Association. Efforts were made annually 
to have the subject brought before this body of educators but "it 
needed the general awakening in the lines of rural, agricultural, and 
industrial education to bring to a focus all the trend in modern life 
which makes the teaching of Home Economics in its various phases 
essential to social progress." In 1908, just before the Chautauqua 
Conference, Mrs. Richards was asked to present a paper before the 
N. E. A. Council and her masterly treatment of the subject won for 



igii] Mrs. Richards and the Lake Placid Conference 353 

Home Economics its true place in the teaching world as the fourth 
R — Right Li\'ing — to be incorporated in the education of the people. 
This was followed by her election for a 6-year term to the N. E. A. 
Council, the highest educational authority in the country. 

So far no constitution, by-laws, or red tape of any kind had hampered 
free initiative in the Lake Placid Conference. The movement was 
held and guided by Mrs. Richards' enthusiasm and power to inspire 
others. To a marked degree she had the gift of prophetic vision, 
the clear ideal which precedes intelligent action. The time now seemed 
ripe for a national association and steps were taken at Chautauqua 
for such an organization. 

In the ten years of its existence the mission of the Lake Placid Con- 
ference was fulfilled. Under Mrs. Richards' wise leadership it had 
pointed out the way — which the many were now ready to follow. For 
her no labor had been too arduous, no sacrifice of time or pleasure 
too great when demanded by the interests of this work. 

As a presiding ofl5cer, she combined tact and force with the rare 
power of obtaining results, sifting chaff from wheat and crystallizing 
the essential from thought and discussion. After a session, committee 
meetings would sometimes be going on in all four corners of the room, 
and before they dispersed she would have the best each had to offer. 

When the history of this great Home Economics movement is 
written, the name which will stand easily first in recognizing the need, 
organizing the work, and shaping the policies, will be that of Ellen 
H. Richards. 

Annie Dewey, 
Melvil Dewey. 

The Cedars, April, igii. 

THE LAKE PLACID CONFERENCE TO ITS CHAIRMAN. 
MRS. ELLEN H. RICHARDS, GREETING:' 

Every movement for social betterment is made up at its beginning 
of apparently diversified and unrelated forces. Their common ground 
of agreement, their possible rallying point for combined effort, may 
be hidden from the ordinary observer, but stand fully revealed to 
the born leader. To such a one, possessed of imagination and enthu- 
siasm, it is granted to see how this rich variety of experience and 

^ Presented at the Lake Placid Conference, 1905. 



354 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

suggestion may be used in building up a unity which is yet various, 
and whose different parts when nourished and grown strong may 
establish their separate activities. There comes a time in the history 
of every social and educational movement, when the need for thus 
unifying the work of individuals is so great that without it further 
progress is difficult, if not impossible. 

Such an organization, Mrs. Richards, was effected by you in the 
Lake Placid Conference, which held its first meeting in 1899. It 
was instantly recognized as offering inspiration and practical help 
to workers in many different fields, to all those, in fact, who were 
laboring directly or indirectly for the betterment of the home and 
for good citizenship. It appealed to the student of practical hygiene; 
to the teacher of sewing and cooking in the pubHc schools; to the kin- 
dergartner and manual training teacher seeking to establish the rela- 
tion to brain development of the training of hand and eye; to the edu- 
cator engaged in outlining the purposes and methods for training the 
adult as housekeeper, as matron of public institutions, as teacher or 
nurse; to the club worker desirous of finding out the best ways of 
serving her fellow- citizen; to the thoughtful woman, interested prima- 
rily in the well-being of one home, but seeing that many forces must 
work together for that end. All of these students and workers have 
received help from the Lake Placid Conference in fuller measure than 
could have been foreseen at its inception. By able committees whose 
work has extended over several years, it has built up a consistent 
course of study for elementary, high, collegiate and technical schools; 
by the help of another committee, it has obtained through the cata- 
logue system of the American Library Association the proper place 
for books on House Economics, thus smoothing the path of students 
in this and kindred lines; it has simplified the nomenclature and defined 
the use of terms formerly employed with different meanings in differ- 
ent schools and locaHties; it has furnished well-formulated syllabuses 
for school and club study on Food, Clothing, Shelter, and the Expendi- 
ture of the Family Income; it has preserved, in permanent form in 
the annual report, discussions by specialists on a large range of topics; 
it has thrown light on all of these subjects through the cooperation 
of educators, not only of our own land, but of England, Canada, 
and Australia; it helped to increase the number of free government 
bulletins at the disposal of students, by petitioning Congress for addi- 
tional grants to the Department of Agriculture to be used in nutri- 
tion investigations; it has suggested and made possible the establish- 



191 1] Mrs. Richards and the Lake Placid Conference 355 

ment of summer schools, evening classes, and courses of lectures in 
many localities; it has helped in building up the correspondence 
courses in Home Economics; it has brought to the knowledge of 
members the best books on special topics and has suggested the need 
and the scope of new ones, such as that valuable series on the Cost 
of Living, The Cost of Food, and The Cost of Shelter, all of which 
have been written since the Conference was organized. 

One of the chief functions of the Lake Placid Conference has been 
to put in touch with each other persons of like interests and pursuits 
from widely separated parts of the coimtry. This has often resulted 
in bringing to a given work the very worker who could successfully 
carry it forward and has made it possible to bring together students 
of special subjects for the giving of valuable courses of lectures. At 
these conferences the brave and enterprising West has come to learn 
of the more experienced East, and the East has in turn learned of a 
vast and prosperous region where home life and farm life still have 
the old, close relation which has furnished ideal conditions for char- 
acter building. 

The dominant note in the deliberations of this Conference, that 
which has given it its distinctive character, is the ever-present sense 
of the end for which all this educational machinery exists, "the pro- 
motion of healthful, moral, and progressive home and family life, 
the indispensable basis of national prosperity." The Conference has 
repeatedly pointed out that "no person has a better opportunity to 
separate convention from good Uving than the teacher of housekeep- 
ing methods." That there may be "standards of living," and that 
Ught may be thrown on them by acknowledged principles of economic 
and social science, and that these standards should be treated from 
the point of view of their relation to physical and moral health, are 
doctrines which have taken form in this Conference with clearness 
and force. It has been recognized that the home cannot adjust itself 
to the rapidly changing conditions of modern times without help from 
trained people working through the only practical medium, the school, 
hence the importance of placing courses in Home Economics on a 
sound educational and scientific basis. 

Best of all, this Conference has been characterized by a sunny 
atmosphere of courage, helpfulness, and enthusiasm. It has been 
especially full of inspiration to the young teacher. "For two years," 
said one, "the Conference gave me all the help I had." "What I 
learned that others had done, nerved me to the task of starting prac- 
tical courses in the rural schools of my state," said another. 



3S6 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

It is impossible to give due credit to all the different factors that 
have united in producing this whole, making of it an educational influ- 
ence which it is beUeved will be a power for good in the land. The 
name and place of meeting suggest the debt of the Conference to 
Mr. and Mrs. Meb.al Dewey, who, not only by their generous hos- 
pitality, but by their wise coimsel and encouragement, have made 
the Conference possible. But there has been no doubt in the mind 
of even the most casual observer of the Conference that you, its Chair- 
man, were the inspiring genius and leader of it all. It is you who have 
drawn around you these workers from far and near and given them 
quickened thought and a vision of how "all things work together;" 
it is you who have ever seen the main issue clear through confusing 
details and have pointed out not only ideals but the open way to their 
realization. But we who love and honor you can give no better proof 
of our feeling than to obey what we know would be your wish, and leave 
unwritten the volume of your good deeds. 

"Our chief want in life is some one who shall make us do what we 
can. There is a sublime attraction in him to whatever virtue is in 
us." — Emerson. 

Subjects of Papers Presented at the Meetings of the Lake 

Placid Conference, 1899-1905, and Reported in the 

Published Proceedings. 

Courses of study in Home Economics in grade schools, secondary 
schools, colleges and universities, professional schools and agricultural 
colleges; handwork for high school girls; trade schools in relation to 
public education; the Manhattan trade school; vacation and evening 
schools; mission work and kitchen-garden classes; household arts in 
coimtry schools; what agricultural colleges may do for the farmer's 
daughter; reading courses for farmers' wives; training of teachers in 
Home Economics; physiological chemistry in connection with Home 
Economics; botany in connection with Home Economics; teaching 
of Home Economics in the rural schools of Maryland; Home Eco- 
nomics in Canada; Teaching of Home Economics in orphan asylums, 
in social settlements, in country communities; English methods in 
practical hygiene; what New York State is doing to promote educa- 
tion; classification of Home Economics according to library methods; 
what the. government is doing for domestic science teachers; the 
American School of Household Economics; labor problems in the 



igii] Mrs. Richards and Our Association 357 

household; the cooperative laundry; the Household Aid Company; 
simplified methods of housekeeping; attitude of housekeepers toward 
non-resident labor; present centiiry housekeeping as a profession; 
standards of wages, hours, etc., in household serv-ice; physical devel- 
opment by means of housework; business opportunities for women in 
household crafts outside of the home; women as sanitary inspectors; 
journahsm in relation to Home Economics; work of women's clubs in 
Home Economics; syllabus for study clubs on food, on shelter, on 
standards of living; standards of housework as modified by large num- 
bers; embelHshment and utilization of small home grounds; the archi- 
tect and the housewife; the model cottage at Boulder; proteid metab- 
olism in relation to dietary standards; diet and health; dietary work 
with students; food values in family menus; food adulteration; law 
of domestic institutions; the significance of the family in the devel- 
opment of the individual and of society; readjustment of values, social 
and economic ; what shall the women do with time set free by modern 
methods? hospitahty in the modern home; controlling ideals in the 
family life of the future; refined life on small incomes; effect of some 
social changes on the family. 

MRS. RICHARDS AND THE ORGANIZATION OF THE 
AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

The Lake Placid Conferences had been personal, informal, intensive, 
prehminary; they were most effective for laying firm foundations and 
initiating wise plans. Mrs. Richards had probably from the first 
looked forward to another type of organization but she had the pa- 
tience necessary for great things. Certainly, at the ninth conference, 
in 1907, in reply to a question why a national association should not 
be formed, she repUed, in substance: "We have started a separate 
teachers' section; let us see what it will accomplish; the association 
will come in time when we are ready for it." The first "teachers' 
section" had met in the preceding December (1906); its report and 
that of the section the next year joined with other evidence to prove 
the times ready for the country-wide organization. 

Early in the sessions of the Tenth Lake Placid Conference which 
met at Chautauqua in July, 1908, Mrs. Richards, with characteristic 



3s8 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

method asked "that written suggestions be handed in at a later ses- 
sion as to (i) the most important work for the conference for the next 
ten years, and (2) the desirability of reorganizing into a national body." 
She had soimded some individuals in advance by correspondence and 
she had herself concluded, I believe, that the time for reorganization had 
come, but she would only proceed if the body of members desired it, 
and if they had some conception of what such an organization might 
accompHsh in "the next ten years." Here one sees the wisdom of 
the real leader who will go forward just as rapidly as others can fol- 
low but no faster. "There are 2000 to 3000 teachers of Home Eco- 
nomics in the United States and Canada," said Mrs. Richards later 
in the conference, "and we may gain by forming a broad organiza- 
tion and differentiating later if best." 

A preHminary committee on national organization brought together 
suggestions from various quarters and reported to a later session of 
the conference its conclusion that the time had come for a national 
organization which would take into consideration the Lake Placid 
Conference and any similar bodies ; that Home Economics groups should 
be organized in different states; that the proposed organization should 
publish a journal; that teachers, especially, and other groups also, 
as the women's clubs, should be interested in the organization; and 
that a name national in character, as American Home Economics 
Association or National Home Economics Association should be 
adopted. It was recommended that a committee on organization 
be appointed to report at the meeting of the Teachers' Section of the 
Lake Placid Conference at Washington, in December, 1909. 

The conference at Chautauqua responded promptly to this report, 
voting by resolutions which succeed one another in the minutes like 
quick pulses of decision; first, that in its opinion the time had come 
for a national organization; second, that its name should be the Amer- 
ican Home Economics Association; and finally, that the conference 
should begin at once the publication of a small quarterly periodical. 
''It was estimated that 1000 teachers would take the journal the first 
year. There was considerable discussion as to who should furnish 
material for it, resulting in Mrs. Richards offering to be responsible 
for it." How that phrase from the minutes epitomizes the history 
of the Lake Placid Conferences, the organization of the American 
Home Economics Association, indeed the whole Home Economics 
movement from its beginnings on into future developments we are 
just beginning to appreciate — "Mrs, Richards responsible for it." 



igii] Mrs. Richards and Our Association 359 

The preliminary committee at Chautauqua was continued as the 
working, responsible committee on organization. Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy of the U. S. Department of Agriculture in Washington was 
chairman; some members were located in New York, others at Lake 
Placid, in Chicago and the West; and Mrs. Richards in Boston acted 
as adviser and counsel in the correspondence that passed to and fro 
in the next months as a tentative constitution and plan of organiza- 
tion was drawn up. No one person is responsible for everything in 
times of reorganization, but it is fair to say that no one person con- 
tributed so much as she to the new plans. Through this faU of 1908, 
Mrs. Richards was especially busy, too, with bringing out the first 
two nimibers of the preUminary quarterly pubUcation, The Lake Pla- 
cid Conference on Home Economics — Quarterly Bulletin, of which the 
first issue came out in September and the second and final one, as it 
proved, in November. This forerunner of the Journal of Home 
Economics in its first modest eight pages, states succinctly and by 
a familiar con\incing pen, the basis on which the new association is 
to be formed: Its purpose is to give intercommunication and cooper- 
ation among all those engaged in trying to solve home and home 
education problems; the possible agencies for improvement of home 
conditions are rapidly multiplying and need to be brought into help- 
ful communication ; the increased cost of Hving and the changed posi- 
tion of women are home problems which challenge the sociologist 
and the ethical teacher; the interdependence of private cleanliness 
and pubHc sanitation interest the civic expert, and pubUc institutions 
are demanding trained house managers; the home is the strategic 
point in the tuberculosis and other health campaigns. On such a 
basis the new organization was projected, and samples of news-notes, 
queries, bibliographies and advertisements, fill the pages of the first 
Bulletin, as an indication of what the projected journal might be later. 
Prominent, too, and characteristic of this wise organizer's method 
was the request for criticism and advice. Mrs. Richards was reporter, 
editor, business manager, all in one, for the first and second Bulletins, 
and now afterward, one wonders about that and so many other tilings 
which she accomplished: "How did she do it?" 

The November Bulletin had twice as many pages and opened with 
the program of the meeting of organization to be held in Washington. 
It included some comments on the program from Mrs. Richards, 
bibliographical notes, news items, and four pages devoted to " data 
on equipment for teaching domestic science." It includes, too, a 



360 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

characteristic paragraph from Mrs. Richards on methods of teaching 
which is too good to be lost: "In reply to many requests for sugges- 
tions as to methods of teaching, the editor reminds teachers that the 
hill of learning is not to be cut down so that the road lies sunken 
between high banks of sand or hard rock, neither is it to be tunneled 
for the sake of quickly reaching the presumably flowery meadow be- 
yond. It is the teacher's duty to pro\'ide wayside shrines, with cool 
water and fruits and flowers, near enough together to entice the eager 
learner to teach them — with time enough to rest and take pleasure in 
the ever enlarging horizon. When the first crest is reached there 
should be no sense of fatigue but only a desire for the outlook from 
the next higher." 

Meantime the committee on organization had sent broadcast the 
invitations to join the proposed association and the numerous and 
cordial repHes indicated that the response would be country-wade. 
The convention convened, ofi&cially, as the Teaching Section of the 
Lake Placid Conference with Mrs. Richards as chairman, and after 
receiving the report of the committee on organization adjourned sine 
die to reassemble immediately as an organizing convention of the new 
association. The story of the reorganization was told in the first 
number of the Journal of Home Economics and need not be re- 
peated here. One or two incidents only may be given to make clear 
Mrs. Richards' relation to it. When the delegates met to effect an 
organiz,ation and no "slate" had been arranged, in the instant's awk- 
ward pause after the call for nominations for president, when every- 
one's thought was turning to one person, a quick-witted delegate 
gave Mrs. Richards' name from the floor and the election was made 
by heartiest acclamation. So her guiding hand that had but an instant 
before relinquished the Lake Placid organization was placed at once 
on the helm of the new association. The spontaneous tribute, how- 
ever, was a thing never to be forgotten. 

Delegates to the Washington convention recall with especial pleas- 
ure the first informal dinner of the new association at the Hotel Gor- 
don, January i, 1909. Mrs. Richards had been compelled to leave 
the convention for a few hours for an engagement in Baltimore. A 
telegram came to the dinner-party: "Happy New Year to the new 
society! May it celebrate its fiftieth birthday by the establishment 
of the new species of housewife! (Signed) Ellen H. Richards and 
Mary Hinman Abel," What optimism tempered with wisdom and 



igii] Mrs. Richards and Our Association 361 

the long \dsionl Some one shall yet collect for us from her writings, 
a new "Richards' philosophy," fit to rank with Ben Franklin's. 

Another incident happened next morning when Mrs. Richards was 
presiding at the first public session of the new Association. Public 
men and imiversity professors brought greetings to the new society 
and its president. In the unpublished stenographic notes I find 
these words, and I recall perfectly the white-haired professor of chem- 
istry who spoke them: "I have known Mrs. Richards and admired 
her work and particularly her appHcation of chemistry to the subject 
of Home Economics. I have been longer in chemistry — but Mrs. 
Richards has passed me." 

One incident more. The convention had adjourned, ha\dng adopted 
a constitution which pro\dded for the publication of a journal, but 
had not provided "how" or "who." As the delegates were leaving, 
Mrs. Richards asked the members of the executive committee who 
could do so to meet at her parlors in the Gordon that evening. Not a 
quorum was present, but there until a late hour the plans for the Jour- 
nal as we know it were whipped into shape, and the conclusions were 
sent ofiE to absent members for approval. Duties were assigned to 
various ones in perfecting the organization and initiating its pubKca- 
tion; the new country-wide organization for better hving with its 
Journal was launched; and the little group broke up, its members 
and the large membership feeling sure of the future, for "Mrs. Richards 
was responsible for it." 



PRACTICAL EXPERIMENTS FOR THE PROMOTION 
OF HOME ECONOMICS. 

THE NEW ENGLAND KITCHEN. 
Mary H. Abel. 

The application of scientific principles to the cookery of food mate- 
rials on a large scale, with the help of chemical analyses and a compara- 
tive study of utensils and methods, was undertaken in Boston in Jan- 
uary, 1890, and the dishes prepared according to the formulae finally 
adopted were offered for sale at the New England Eatchen, then 
situated at 142 Pleasant Street. 

This important experiment was the first of its kind in this country, 
and it owed its inception to the desire of Mrs. Quincy A. Shaw that 
a thorough study should be made of the food and nutrition of the 
working man and its possible relation to the use of intoxicating liquors. 
She was ready to supply adequate funds for conducting such an enquiry 
according to the methods recommended by Mrs. Richards, who was 
her adviser in the matter. She fully understood the limitations of 
"the experiment" in the scientific sense and made no stipulation as to 
what results must be obtained or how the money should be used, an 
attitude of mind even more rare twenty years ago than it is now. 

The work was carried on under the direction of Mrs. Richards and 
Mrs. Abel, who began extensive experiments in the use of cooking 
utensils and in methods of cooking the cereals and the lower-priced 
meats. Dr. Edward Atkinson, whose Aladdin Oven was at that time 
much discussed as affording a method of conservang heat and conduct- 
ing cooking at temperatures under the boiling point, was a constant 
friend and adviser of the enterprise. Through him a grant of $300 
was obtained for the Kitchen from the trustees of the Elizabeth 
Thompson Science Fund for The Right Application of Heat to the 
Conversion of Food Material. This fund was used in the purchase 
of scientific instruments and to pay for frequent chemical analyses of 
the foods, not only to establish a desired standard but afterward to 
hold the manufactured product to that standard. The reports made 
by Mrs. Richards and Mrs. Abel to the trustees of the Elizabeth 

362 



igii] Practical Experiments in Home Economics 363 

Thompson Science Fund were presented by Dr. Atkinson at the meet- 
ing of the Association for the Advancement of Science in August, 
1890, and may be found in the published proceedings (Vol. 39). 
From this source it was quoted by Professor Atwater in his bulletin 
entitled Methods and Results of Investigations on the Chemistry 
and Economy of Food.^ This report precedes by many years other 
work of its kind. At that time the food of man had been far less 
studied than that of farm animals. Through Dr. Atkinson contribu- 
tions were also made to this experiment by Mr. Andrew Carnegie 
and Mr. Henry Phipps. 

It had been said by Dr. Drown, professor of chemistry at the Insti- 
tute of Technology, that if one food, beef broth, could be made of 
the same flavor and strength day by day. as unvarying in its constit- 
uents as the medicine compounded to meet a physician's prescrip- 
tion, that result alone would justify the proposed expenditure of time 
and money. By the help of repeated chemical analyses the methods 
of preparing this dish were brought to such perfection that the result 
was a food that differed in only the slightest degree from day to day, 
analysing about the food value of milk without the fat. It was wel- 
comed by the physicians of Boston, and the first success of the Kitchen 
was with the well-to-do rather than with the poor. 

The following dishes, after similar study were finally placed on sale 
by weight or measure: beef broth, vegetable soup, pea soup, corn 
mush, boiled hominy, oatmeal mush, cracked wheat, pressed beef, 
beef stew, fish chowder, tomato soup, Indian pudding, rice pudding, 
and oatmeal scones. These foods were intended to supplement the 
home cooking. To start a restaurant was not a part of the original 
plan. 

At the end of two years the Kitchen reached the point of self-sup- 
port though with a narrow margin. In the spring of 1902 the Kitchen 
was asked to furnish for the public schools the model lunches that 
should be satisfactory as to both taste and nutritive value. The 
success attending this enterprise was felt to be entirely due to the 
standards upheld by the Kitchen and the experience it had gained in 
cooking large quantities of simple foods by the best methods. 

In January, 1892, classes were formed under the charge of Miss 
Maria Daniell for the study of economic and sanitary cooking, the 
lessons being illustrated by dishes prepared in the Kitchen. During 

*U. S. Department of Agricxilture, Office Experiment Stations, Bulletin 21. 



364 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

the winter some forty students from a medical school came for prac- 
tice in cooking for the sick. 

Branch kitchens started, one in the West End of Boston, another 
at the North End, another at Olneyville, a suburb of Providence, 
R. I., another at 341 Hudson Street, New York, and still another at Hull 
House, Chicago, did not flourish, and were given up, not however 
until each had taught its lesson and added to our knowledge of liv- 
ing conditions in crowded centers, especially as to the kinds of food 
bought and the proportion of the income that is spent for food. The 
failure to meet self-support in these instances was probably due to 
the fact that the working people surrounding such places were of many 
different nationahties, each tenacious in its preference for its own 
dishes. Nutritious food cooked in a cleanly manner did not appeal 
to them as one of the most important of the many things they have to 
compass in this new land or worth going a block out of their way to 
purchase. This was twenty years ago and the problem is yet unsolved, 
for the American citizen and housewife does not yet make use of the 
results of scientific knowledge. 

The Kitchen became a rallying point for those who had been work- 
ing at various phases of the same large question. At the beginning 
of the experiment there seemed to be but few sympathisers and help- 
ers, but the nmnber grew with the months and formed a nucleus for 
what was afterwards organized into the Lake Placid Conference. Miss 
Maria Parloa, Mrs. Lincoln, and others of recognized culinary skill 
gave substantial assistance. Edward Everett Hale's noble shaggy 
figure was a familiar visitor. He said, "I've been waiting fifteen years 
for something of this kind." 

In 1894 the main Kitchen was moved to Tremont Street and in 1903 
to Charles Street. Shortly after it passed into the hands of the 
Womens' Educational and Industrial Union whose managers stUl 
control it. 

Miss Sarah E. Wentworth, who undertook the direction of the 
Kitchen after the first seven months, who developed the school luncheon 
work, and who has presided over the various changes and adjustments 
including the final transfer, says that after Mrs. Richards' personal 
touch on the details of the business was removed she still felt that 
back of it all stood her personaUty, her wisdom, and her wonderful 
power to inspire and give courage. "Although I might not see her 
for months, she was there and the simple knowledge of that tided over 
endless difficulties too petty to carry to her. The larger questions 



igii] Practical Experiments in Home Economics 365 

she was never too busy to help us solve. When the New England 
Kitchen property was transferred to the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union, a clause was inserted gi\ang to Mrs. Richards the 
right to interfere if at any time she felt con\'inced that the standards 
were being lowered. Both sides felt it an honor to have her name in 
any way connected with the continuation of the work." 

At the World's Fair at Chicago in 1893 the methods of the New 
England Kitchen were shown in the Rumford Kitchen which was in 
the department of education of the exhibit made by the State of Massa- 
chusetts. 

The present status of the New England Kitchen is thus described 
by Miss Mary H. Moran, who has been the director for the last five 
years: 

"With regard to the present status of the New England Kitchen, 
considered in relation to the original purpose of the enterprise, I 
wish to say that, speaking unoflScially, it seems to me that the devel- 
opment since the Kitchen came into the hands of the Union has been 
along the same lines as that during the five or sLx years immediately 
preceding. The function of the Kitchen at present is that of a lunch- 
room and food salesroom of high grade, considered from the view- 
point of cleanliness, quality of food, and attractiveness of surroundings 
and service. This means that we are meeting the need of a group of 
persons very difi'erent from that which it was originally the aim of 
the Kitchen to reach. Our cUentele is drawn almost wholly from what 
is ordinarily termed the middle class — men and women of good stand- 
ards and tastes, living upon moderate incomes. In connection with 
this work, the Union really does appreciate that the enterprise offers 
distinct opportunity for social service, that one of the greatest needs 
today is that of proper living arrangements, housing as well as feeding, 
for the great army of workers in our large industrial centers at a price 
which comes within the reach of the man and woman of moderate 
salaries. You will see by this that the function of the New England 
Kitchen, as the Union interprets it, is not very different from the 
original purpose, except that the lines have shifted from the very poor 
group to one that, while a httle better provided for, in some respects 
is put to it quite as much to make ends meet. 

"The high school lunch work is stiU going on and has developed so 
that now we are sending luncheons to sixteen different schools. The 
lunch work is under the direction of an advisory committee on school 
luncheons, to which the school committee delegates full responsibihty. 



366 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

This advisory committee is made up of three representatives of the 
Union and three representatives elected by the Head-Masters' Asso- 
ciation, an organization of high school masters. All the arrangements 
with regard to the luncheons are in the hands of this committee and 
all data as to receipts, costs, etc., are accessible to them, as the Union 
is under agreement to serve these luncheons at cost. The number 
of students reached through these luncheons is between 4500 and 5000 
daily. With the exception of the ice cream, crackers, and chocolate, 
all of the food served is prepared at the New England Kitchen. The 
total receipts from luncheons for the school year just closed was in 
the neighborhood of $50,000." 

THE SCHOOL OF HOUSEKEEPING. 
Henrietta I. Goodrich. 

This attempt to solve the question of household service was founded 
in Boston in October, 1897, by the Woman's Educational and Indus- 
trial Union. Its aims were three: (i) To train employees to do 
housework; (2) to train employers to keep house; (3) and to serve 
as an experiment station in Home Economics. 

During the first two years the emphasis of the school was laid on 
training maids, and the lectures for employers were a series of lather 
loosely related talks by experts, on a variety of subjects, and attended 
by older women — a group of conservative, estabhshed housekeepers. 

The demand for training on the part of employees was slight 
and after four years, classes for employees were given up. The 
demand for training on the part of prospective employers of house- 
hold labor, young women just out of college, boarding or high school, 
increased steadily during the five years of the school's existence. 

Dating from about the end of the second year, when we began to 
plan classes, that is a consecutive course, for college or boarding school 
girls whose interest was as future home-makers or institutional man- 
agers, Mrs. Richards' interest was thoroughly enlisted and she was 
the chief adviser in the development of the Home-makers and Profes- 
sional Courses, suggesting names of lecturers, and using her own wide 
influence to secure the interest of experts and of other influential per- 
sons in the community. In addition, she herself gave, in each of the 
last three years of the school, a course of lectures on chemistry of foods 
and helped to plan with the other instructors — as Miss Usher and Miss 
Elliott — the outline of their courses, material for demonstration, etc. 



igii] Practical Experiments in Home Economics 367 

In cooperation with the Massachusetts Bureau of Statistics of 
Labor, students of the school published two reports: Social Statis- 
tics of Working Women, and The Cost of Home-made and Prepared 
Food. 

On July I, 1902, the School of Housekeeping was transferred by 
the Union to the Trustees of Simmons College, and was incorporated 
with modifications in the Home Economics Department of the col- 
lege. 

THE HOUSEHOLD AID CO. 

Between the years 1903 and 1905 the Woman's Education Associa- 
tion of Boston conducted a very interesting experiment through its 
committee on domestic economy in order "to study at first hand the 
problems of household labor under modern conditions by furnishing 
household labor by the hour." 

The report of this experiment was written by Mrs. Richards and is 
a remarkable document, one that should be reprinted and given a 
permanent place in our scanty literature of original experiments. As 
Miss Ellen A. Huntington, at one time the director, writes, "That is 
to me a wonderful report, she organized disorganized facts," and Pro- 
fessor Lucy Salmon of Vassar College wrote Mrs. Richards, "This 
report ought to have wide circulation. Let us work for a $10,000,000 
endowment for the investigation of all matters pertaining to the home." 

We make a few quotations: 

The Plan. 

A definite period of two years was determined upon as the first stage in the 
experiment. 

Certain disabilities in service had been claimed as fundamental causes of the 
disfavor in which it was held, such as — on the part of the worker: 

(i) Required residence in the house, and yet not of it. Life was irksome. The 
room, the food, the associates and general surroundings were frequently not satis- 
factory to a self-respecting girl. Therefore a house was secured, furnished and run 
for the 20 Aids as their home, not a mere lodging place. 

(2) Hours of work were long and indefinite. Therefore the Aids went out for 
definite periods only. 

(3) Lack of congenial companionship and recreation. Therefore particular 
pains were taken to make the home life attractive. 

(4) Injustice in the demands for service. Therefore the Company served as 
an intermediary. 

On the part of the employer: 

(i) Scarcity of material. Therefore the Company proposed to draw upon an 
entirely new source of supply not now on the market. 



368 The Journal 0} Home Economics [October 

(2) Low grade of intelligence and skill available. Therefore an educational 
test was applied to the candidates and training was to be given for six weeks before 
any Aid was sent out to work. 

(3) UnreliabiUty. Therefore the Company assumed the responsibility and 
investigated causes of dissatisfaction. 

(4) Danger of infection from outside help. Therefore the Company provided 
a home and took responsibility for sanitary conditions. 

At the end of the original time limit of two years the experiment 
was closed. It had collected in that time valuable data on the sub- 
ject of household service and had been able to formulate conclusions, 
based upon them, which had been the original aim of this company. 
In the two years $5000 had been expended ir addition to what had 
been received for the work of the Aids. As self support was not in 
sight the estabHshment of the Household Aids as a commercial enter- 
prise was not attempted. 

We quote below a few of the conclusions: 

Disappointments on the Part op the Company. 

(i) The attitude of the public was not only hypercritical, but in many cases dis- 
tinctly hostile to the principle involved. This indicated that the scheme was ahead 
of its time. 

(2) The educational side of the plan was not considered by those who freely 
support other schemes, but persons financially able to maintain the enterprise 
Insisted that the house should at once become self-supporting. This is only in 
accordance with modern "business methods" which look to success at the expense 
of the worker. The Company had an eye to the final advancement of the indi- 
\adual worker; to this extent the Company was philanthropic as well as commercial. 

(3) InteUigence did not make up for lack of early muscle-training. The teacher, 
seamstress, or typewriter who has never trained the muscles used in dusting or 
waiting at table, in cooking, or fine laundry work, cannot at once become skilled 
in the new trade. Because of this slowness of acquisition by the adult worker, 
six weeks of general training for such intelligent and willing persons did not fit 
them to compete with the girl who came from over the water at an early age and 
learned by the actual doing. Therefore the employers did not receive the skilled, 
all-round service they expected. 

(4) The expected supply of workers was not found, therefore the waiting list 
could not be maintained, nor an uneven demand for service always met. 

(s) The low standard of physical strength in the Aids. Thirty to forty hours 
a week was all that most were equal to without undue fatigue. It is true that the 
workers gained as the months went on, and less effort was required from the long 
unused or never-used muscles. There was also great reluctance on the part of the 
workers to undertake any or all kinds of work. This brought down the receipts 
of the Company. 

(6) Employers would tolerate unskilled service of persons living in their own 
houses when they could not endure it in the service of Aids. Therefore this skill 



igii] Practkal Experiments in Home Economics 369 

must be acquired somehow, somewhere, before satisfactory employment is obtained. 
In no other department of labor is learning by doing so important as in housework. 
For this reason a house for adequate training needs to be equipped with all the 
appliances likely to be foimd in experience — and the finance of housekeeping is so 
little understood by employers that they were unwilling to pay what skilled labor 
to be had on call by the hour is really worth. 

(7) The tendency to speciaUzation in the service called for did not help the 
employer for whom the Company had the greatest sympathy — the one who needs 
help in any or all departments of her work to keep her standards within sight and 
yet who must count her pennies. She needs the all-round, skilled worker who can 
put a house in order or prepare and serve a meal. 

(8) House\\aves in general did not appreciate the advantage of seciu"ity in free- 
dom from risks of contagion, of security in the honesty and reliability of the em- 
ployees, nor did they value their own time in overseeing unskilled labor. All 
these advantages did not outweigh the extra two or three cents an hour which the 
Company was obliged to charge. 

(9) No promising outlook for the advancement of Aids could be shown, that is, 
increasing pay for increasing skill could not be guaranteed. 



MRS. RICHARDS' RELATION TO INSTITUTIONS. 

Mrs. Richards' remarkable qualities as an adviser in the field of 
institution management are best shown in the testimony of a few 
of those whose problems she helped to solve. It has been found 
impossible to obtain even a list of the institutions whose courses of 
study she suggested or criticised, whose development she helped to 
strengthen and to guide along right Hues, and the list of her lectures 
at such institutions proves to be very incomplete. We subjoin a few 
tributes to her helpfulness: 

MRS. RICHARDS AND TEACHERS COLLEGE. 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. 

Mrs. Richards was, from 1902 to 1909, with the exception of one 
or two years, a regular non-resident lecturer at Teachers College, and 
thus contributed to the development of the departments of domestic 
science and domestic art in the years immediately preceding the organ- 
ization of the School of Household Arts. It was in 1902 that she 
went as a special lecturer to the Summer School of Chemistry and 
Biology organized at Wesleyan University by Professors Atwater and 
Conn, which proved to be the first Graduate School of Home Econom- 
ics, and the same year she came to Teachers College to give advanced 
instruction in foods and dietaries. She gave some ten or a dozen 
lectures in the advanced course in foods, bringing to the students the 
results of her own scientific work as well as her broad knowledge of 
the whole field of Home Economics. 

This service, or a similar one in other courses, she repeated nearly 
every year. She came not only as lecturer, but as the friend and wise 
counsellor of members of the instructing staff and also of the students, 
especially those advanced students, experienced workers, who come 
back from active service in various parts of the country for further 
study at the college. 

Mrs. Richards' coming was always a gala time. In addition to 
her lectures, she usually gave an open address to all members of the 
departments of Home Economics, to which visitors were always wel- 
come; while the students for their part would arrange a little recep- 
tion and informal tea that all might meet her socially. 

370 



iQii] Mrs. Richards' Relations to Institutions 371 

But her coming was more than a gala time; it was a time when all 
who met her became conscious of the broad meaning of the Home 
Economics movement. One appreciated the evangel of pure food, 
of sanitation and hygiene, of the art of right living. How she econo- 
mized her time — a schedule to see this and that person, an hour to 
visit this lunch room or that institution; and yet how generously 
she gave — a suggestion of research to this or that one, a constant in- 
quiry regarding schools, persons, places, progress. It was thus that 
she made of Home Economics workers everywhere a body whose 
members became conscious of their aim and later organized to accom- 
plish it. 

Some of Mrs. Richards' last lectures and addresses at Teachers 
College were on dietaries, the Colonial Household (with illustrations 
from her own experiences on a New England farm at the middle of 
the last century), and a lecture on The Increased Cost of Living, 
which straightway interested the press, an ally which she always 
welcomed. 

Mrs. Richards last visited Teachers College in January 191 1, and 
all who heard her speak on Progress in Home Economics will never 
forget her survey of the growth of the movement and her hopeful 
prophecy of new developments — among other points, the need now 
of practical preparation for those going into household management 
and the need of apprenticeship to supplement laboratory instruction. 

For many years, Mrs. Richards came to Teachers College once or 
twice yearly as a friendly visitor; for six years, she served the College 
officially as a non-resident lecturer; whatever good the School of House- 
hold Arts of Teachers College may accomplish will go back in part to 
her generous contributions of wise coimsel and inspiring vision no 
less than of sound learning. B. R. Andrews. 

MRS. RICHARDS AND PRATT INSTITUTE. BROOKLYN. N. Y. 

It is with a sort of sad satisfaction that I set myself the task of writ- 
ing a brief account of the connection that our friend Mrs. Richards 
had with Pratt Institute. I am grateful for this opportunity to give 
public acknowledgment to the friendly help she was constantly giv- 
ing me. 

When my father determined to make work on domestic problems 
a part of his efforts at Pratt Institute, he consulted Mrs. Richards 
freely, and she proved herself interested in his ideas and plans and 



372 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

practical and helpful in her suggestions; but her unique service was 
rendered the Institute when his untimely death left me to face an 
undertaking that youth and inexperience made a heavy burden. In 
those early days of my apprenticeship, and, in fact, all along the years 
(for who ever lives long enough to outgrow his period of experimenta- 
tion and apprenticeship), I went to her for help and advice whenever 
I needed to, and she never made me feel that I came too often or 
troubled her too much. 

I never minded having Mrs. Richards know how ignorant I was. 
Hers was that large outlook in Hf e that counted all men wise and ignorant 
in degree only, and you always felt that she was holding her own strong 
convictions "subject to revision." So she managed to make me feel 
that I was helping her, while she helped me, and that the interchange 
of experiences and opinions had brought us both to a saner point of 
view. Then, too, Mrs. Richards was a person whom I knew I could 
consult freely without taking her advice. Many a time I have felt 
that my personal, intimate knowledge of our local conditions made it 
wiser not to follow her suggestions, but I never saw her lose interest 
because of this decision. In fact, I think she watched our progress 
at such times with unusual attention, so that she might learn some- 
thing from the working out of a plan that differed from the one she 
would have employed. 

It is not too much to say that we never made an important change 
in our work for women that I did not talk over with Mrs. Richards 
and, while many changes were made contrary to her judgment, many 
of our plans found their inspiration in her wise suggestions. I hope 
that I made her imderstand what it meant to me to have a friend to 
whom I could always turn and whose sympathetic hearing of my case 
was a help to me in clearing my own thinking. 

She was a frequent lecturer at the Institute, and we never meant 
to have a class graduated from our School of Household Science and 
Arts the members of which did not feel that they had come to know 
her. Then, too, all Pratt Institute graduates she considered her friends, 
who were entitled to all the rich privileges that friendship with her 
carried with it. 

At great sacrifice of time and strength she came to us for our grad- 
uates' supper last June, and gave to that occasion an uplift for which 
we were most grateful. When we opened last fall our practice-house 
for our household science students — one of her pet schemes for us — 
she came again and set upon our plans the seal of her interest and 



iQii] Mrs. Richards^ Relations to Institutions 373 

approval. We little thought then that her period of serv-ice among us 
was so soon to be ended. 

I feel that Mrs. Richards' death means a loss to Pratt Institute that 
can never be made up, but I hope that our sense of this loss will serve 
to intensify our determination to be worthy of her friendship and will 
inspire us to renewed efforts to realize the ideals that she held up to us. 

Frederic B. Pr.-vtt. 



MRS. RICHARDS* LECTURES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. 

The following outUne of a course of lectures given by Mrs. Richards 
at the University of California will indicate the matter and style of 
those addresses which were heard in so many institutions: 

Mrs. Richards was with us, ofl&ciaUy, in 1909 and the extract con- 
cerning her work as it appears in the catalog for the summer session, 
June 21 to July 31, is as follows: 

Household Economics. 

EUen H. Richards, M.A., S.B., Ifistruclor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Boston, Massachusetts. 

1. Household Management in the 20th Century. Relation of Cost to Effi- 

ciency. (Beginning July 12.) Mrs. Richards. 

How sanitary science has increased costs; estimates and plans for three grades 
of income; the cost of shelter, needs of the body, needs of the mind; the cost of 
food, actual and relative; factors influencing it, care and inspection, transporta- 
tion, storage, etc.; cost of cleanliness, national and interstate regulation, inspec- 
tion of factory processes, municipal cleanliness; house dirt, prevention cheaper 

than removal; cost of human life through carelessness and ignorance, i unit. 

2. Euthenics. (Beginning July 12.) 

How far may we hope to improve the race in the course of, say, a century and in 
what direction is the first effort indicated: General living conditions may be 
reformed; clean streets, markets, factories, homes, better ventilation and more 
open air life; personal habits improved, breathing, standing, walking, eating, use 
of eyes, sleeping, self-control; prevention and control of communicable diseases 
through modern knowledge and community effort; the poor and the responsibility 
of the home-maker; the duty of the higher education to put knowledge into the 
hands of the people, i unit. 



374 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

From Faculty of the Summer Session: 

Mrs. Men Henrielta Richards, M.A., Instructor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachu- 
setts Institute of Technology. A.B., Vassar College, 1870; M.A. 1873; B.S., 
Massachusetts Institute 1876-84; Instructor in Sanitary Chemistry, 1884; 
author of Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning; Food Materials and Their 
Adulterations; Home Sanitation; The Cost of Living; The Cost of Food; The 
Cost of Shelter; The Cost of Cleanness; Air, Water, and Food; First Lessons 
in Minerals; First Lessons in Food and Diet; The Art of Right Living, etc. 

Her talks were exceedingly practical and full of life, her audiences 
large and enthusiastic, and it was with difficulty that she could meet 
the demands for special conferences asked for by so many of her hear- 
ers. Her visit made a strong impression on those interested in the 
work on the Coast and furthermore it greatly encouraged them. 

M. E. Jaffa. 
University of California. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO. 

The new University of Chicago was opened in October, 1892, and 
Mrs. Richards was deeply interested in it from the first. In 1893 
occurred the World's Columbian Exposition at which the Rumford 
Kitchen, arranged by Mrs. Richards and Mrs. Abel, was a part of the 
exhibit of Massachusetts in connection with the Bureau of Hygiene 
and Sanitation. When the Women's Halls at the imiversity were 
opened in October, 1893, it occurred to Mrs. Richards that the new 
university, already conspicuous for its freedom from academic tradi- 
tions and for its readiness to follow new paths, might consider the 
housing and feeding of its women students as a matter worthy of 
scientific investigation and experiment. 

Her anticipation was in large measure realized. The university 
bought a considerable part of the equipment of the Rumford Kitchen, 
including some forms of apparatus and some utensils found to be espe- 
cially desirable. She remained for several weeks at the university, 
installing the equipment, and taking a large part without renumera- 
tion in the arduous task of organizing the household service and estab- 
lishing standards of domestic life. Under her direction careful rec- 
ords were kept of all food supphes to serve as a basis for further study. 
The results of this investigation were prepared later by her and Dean 
Marion Talbot and published by the university under the title Food 
as a Factor in Student Life, 



igii] Mrs. Richards' Relations to Institutions 375 

During the following years she visited the university whenever she 
was in Chicago and kept in close touch with the administration of 
the Women's Commons, making criticisms and suggestions which 
were invaluable. There was some disappointment on Mrs. Richards' 
part that greater use could not be made of the plant for strictly edu- 
cational purposes, but she took satisfaction as time went by in the 
reports which reached her of the successful working of the methods 
she had inaugurated. 

Marion Talbot. 

SIMMONS COLLEGE. 

Simmons College is completing its tenth year. For several years 
before the college opened its doors its corporation had been actively 
engaged in studying the problem of vocational education for women. 
One of the first conclusions reached by the corporation was that what- 
ever programs of study might be omitted from its curriculum, a 
place must be made for Home Economics. At that time all who were 
concerned in the interests of the college-to-be frequently conferred 
with Mrs. Richards, who held the key to the treasure house of experi- 
ence in Home Economics. She was then much interested in outlining 
for the city of Boston a program for the School of Practical Arts for 
Girls, which has since become an established fact. I remember well 
many conferences with her, in which she outlined the progress of the 
work as she had seen it, pronounced prophecies which have long since 
become established truths, and suggested plans which have been 
worked out in different parts of the country. She was unfailing in 
resource, of unbounded hope and courage, so familiar with all other 
workers in the field that no thread of their experience seemed unknown 
to her. Generous with time, thought, and energy, spending freely 
for the cause, she not only planted definite fields which are now being 
reaped by others, but scattered freely by the wayside. So it hap- 
pened not only that she gave her time and thought to the foundation 
of definite enterprises, but also that the results of her untiring study 
and investigation stimulated many others to work, whose contribu- 
tions in the end were largely due to the inspiration consciously or uncon- 
sciously received from her. 

Simmons College has deeply profited by all her thoughtful experi- 
ence. She has always been generous in coimsel, and has never failed 
to speak the helpful word when we have turned to her in any perplex- 
ity. Many of the readers of this Journal will remember the experi- 



376 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

ment carried on by the Women's Educational and Industrial Union 
known as the School of Housekeeping, where college graduates and 
other mature persons were gathered together in an early venture in 
the field of Home Economics. They lived in the houses which had 
been prepared for them by the Union, caring for the houses, and receiv- 
ing instruction by trained teachers along all the lines of Home Eco- 
nomics which are now included in the school and college curriculum. 
Nearly all the instructors were women who had been trained by Mrs. 
Richards. Three of them afterward became instructors in Simmons 
College, for the School of Housekeeping was made over to the college, 
becoming the foundation of its school of Household Economics. We 
have in our library today the books which Mrs. Richards gathered 
together for the School of Housekeeping. We still have with us Miss 
Elliott and Miss Dike, who were trained by Mrs. Richards and whose 
contribution to the college has been of extreme value. 

For the current college year a series of lectures by experts in Home 
Economics was arranged for the Department. Mrs. Richards was of 
course selected to dehver the first lectures of the series. She came 
to us four times, outlining the history of the Home Economics move- 
ment, interpreting the past and prophesying for the future. Her 
addresses were most stimulating, and on all sides the students re- 
sponded to the inspiration of her ideals. When college re-opened after 
vacation and the sad message was passed from lip to lip, every one 
said, "How glad we are that we had her with us last fall!" 

The college will always remember with grateful appreciation the 
help which Mrs. Richards has given us, and we shall know as the years 
go on that whatever the superstructure may be, the foundations of 
the Home Economics Department were laid in the royal contribu- 
tion which she made. 

Sarah Louise Arnold. 

UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE. 

Mrs. Richards was the life and inspiration of the Household Arts 
work at the Summer School of the South during its early growth. 
I was an instructor there during two sessions when Mrs. Richards 
was in attendance. She was a never failing source of help and guid- 
ance to the students who flocked to her for advice. 

She was never too busy to be interested and always had a sugges- 
tion of value or a kindly criticism which awakened thought when she 



igii] Mrs. Richards^ Relations to Institutions 377 

did not entirely agree. It was her custom while there to rise early, 
and often by 5.30 or 6 a.m. she was deep in consultation with some 
student who could not perhaps remain for all of the session and was 
anxious to gain as much as possible. Mrs. Richards could accom- 
pUsh more work during the twenty-four hours than any one I have 
ever known and at the same time appear to have leisure and time 
for social afifairs and \'isits. Hers was a well ordered, well organized 
mode of li\-ing. 

She was fond of a good time. It was always with much enthusiasm 
that she entered into the picnics after school hours, the excursions on 
the river, and the evening drives and supper parties. She seemed to 
have conserved an unlimited supply of energy which made all things 
possible. 

Mrs. Richards, while at the school, always lectured at least twice 
daily and the attendance was always very large. She emphasized 
especially the economics of the household and tried to make the stu- 
dents realize the necessity for proper planning and wise use of time, 
energ>', and money. There was nothing that she loved to talk about 
any oftener than wise management. Her talks were always illus- 
trated with homely illustrations and she loved occasionally to intro- 
duce a good story or joke. She loved discussion in her classes and was 
quick at repartee. 

Many students have come to me since for study who had their 
inspiration and interest in household arts aroused by Mrs. Richards. 
All who knew her as either friend or teacher feel the loss of a true 
friend and adviser. Her influence will never die. 

Anna M. Cooley. 

JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL. 

My first knowledge of Mrs. Richards and her relation to institu- 
tion work was when she came to us at Johns Hopkins after I had estab- 
lished our preliminary course in which the students were taught in 
the nurses' dormitory the essentials of housekeeping before placing 
them in the wards. It was the first attempt to organize work of that 
nature with the body of students as a working staff, and I remember 
that Mrs. Richards was intensely interested in all our details of 
selecting food, cooking, serving, and of actual dormitory work in 
which groups of twenty to twenty-four students were working in 
"squads." Her intense interest and approval of almost everything 



378 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

she saw was one of the greatest encouragements I had in our early 
days, and I remember that when a conference was held in Washington 
she urged some of those present to go and visit the school and see its 
attempt to train students by means of actual work. Before this, 
however, I had heard, through Dr. Hurd, of her work in studying the 
dietaries of certain Massachusetts institutions. I think the Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital was one of them. 

Adelaide Nutting. 

MRS. RICHARDS AND CANADIAN WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS. 

In later years Mrs. Richards' chief points of contact with the Cana- 
dians were through her books and the Lake Placid Conference. The 
books form part of the Home Economics section of many libraries 
and are looked upon as authoritative in all the Home Economics 
schools. 

As president of the Lake Placid Conference Mrs. Richards always 
made the Canadians feel they belonged there, and took pains to bring 
the Canadian work before the conference. E\'idence of this is found 
in the annual reports of the conference. 

The older Canadian workers in the Home Economics field feel a 
personal sense of loss in the passing of Mrs. Richards. Most of us 
met her through the Lake Placid Conference and we shall always 
remember the whole-souled welcome she had for us and her pleasure 
when we had items of progress to report. We learned to love her for 
herself and to appreciate her ideas and to respect her visions for the 
future. The younger workers, who know her chiefly through her 
writing, look upon her as an authority in many lines, and an inspir- 
ation always. All of us will hold her in memory as one of the great 
ones in our chosen field. 

Mary Urie Watson. 

Macdonald Institute, Guelph, Canada. 



PERSONAL TRIBUTES TO MRS. RICHARDS. 
Mrs. Richards as a National Leader. 

With the rapid spread of the Home Economics movement Mrs. 
Richards' influence widened until it was felt and recognized in all 
parts of our country. And as the movement became truly national 
she realized more and more the need of concerted and harmonious 
action on the part of its advocates and friends. She therefore gave 
herself more earnestly to the task of organizing and guiding the move- 
ment along right Hnes. By long journeys, by attendance at many 
meetings and conferences, and by much correspondence she made 
herself thoroughly acquainted with the conditions under which the 
movement was developing in different regions. Oftentimes she was 
able to give renewed impetus where obstacles had been encountered 
or to impart fresh enthusiasm where hope had been long deferred. 
Everywhere she was welcomed as a wise counsellor and an inspiring 
helper. 

When she came to understand that a national movement like this 
needed a public organization in which its scope, purpose, and require- 
ments could be freely discussed and through which the general inter- 
ests of the cause eflfectively promoted she threw herself into the efifort 
to establish the American Home Economics Association, and as its 
first president did much to perfect its organization and establish it 
on a firm footing. And her co-workers gladly put her forward as 
their national leader and congratulated themselves on having such a 
wise, enthusiastic, and self-sacrificing chief. 

It was fortimate indeed that the Home Economics movement had 
such a national leader at this time. For Mrs, Richards had the 
sound scientific training and knowledge which enabled her to appreci- 
ate the necessity of estabUshing Home Economics on a broad scientific 
foundation in order to meet the requirements of the home fife of the 
future. But she had also in good measure practical discernment and 
common sense. She saw clearly that this branch must deal with actual 
things and conditions and estabUsh and pursue a national practice. 
She had rare tact and broadmindedness which permitted free expression 

379 



380 The Journal of Home Ecomonics [October 

of opinion whether she agreed with it or not and yet brought the dis- 
cussion to definite and reasonable conclusion. She had a shrewd and 
kindly sense of humor which dispelled friction and brought unity of 
feeUng if not of behef. She had a hopeful outlook and encouraged 
all whom she met to go forward whatever obstacles might seem to 
prevent. She saw that in a national movement the varying condi- 
tions of different regions should be recognized and she planned there- 
fore to have all sections of the country represented in the working 
force of the national association. 

Under any circumstances the name of Mrs. Richards will be long 
remembered and her influence will be felt wherever in the United 
States Home Economics is a living force for good. But it is especially 
gratifying to know that the suggestion of a permanent memorial to 
her is being warmly and widely welcomed. 

A. C. True. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

My acquaintance v/ith Mrs. Richards began when I was a graduate 
student in the Boston Normal School for Household Art. It was my 
good fortune to know her as a teacher, adviser, and friend. 

Early in 1898 the task of reorganizing the Department of Home 
Economics in the Kansas State Agricultural College became mine. 
This included the revision of the course of study leading to the degree 
of B.S., and the changing of the basis of the subject from an industrial 
to a scientific one. In it Mrs. Richards' advice was most helpful. 
And she was my adviser when from 1901 to 1907 I was in charge of 
the Department of Home Economics in Ohio State University and 
helped solve the question of modifying courses in other departments 
to meet the special needs of the department of Home Economics. 
Later in the Univers'ty of Wyoming, 1907 to 1910, opportunity had 
presented itself to afl&liate the work of this department with the activ- 
ities of the home by preparing outhnes for home and club courses of 
study and circulating them through the cooperation of the Household 
Economics Department of the State Federation. In this phase of 
the work Mrs. Richards saw large promise for the future, and during 
the last conference I had with her at Denver in 190^ we discussed 
particularly this problem of university extension. 

Minna A. Stoner. 
University of Dakota. 



191 1] Personal Tributes to Mrs. Richards 381 

In December, 1902, Mrs. Richards made a trip through Canada. 
She spoke at McGill University in Montreal, at Queens University, 
Kingston, and at the LilUan Massey School of the University of 
Toronto, where she was introduced to her large audience by Prof. 
Goldwin Smith in terms of the highest appreciation. She spoke 
also at Ladies' College, Whitby, Ont., at St. Thomas, at Peterboro, 
and at London. 

She was everj'where received with the greatest respect by the col- 
lege presidents and other officials. She had a conference with the 
Ministers of Education for Ontario, and everywhere she went she 
deepened the people's faith in the educational and social value of 
Home Economics as taught in school and college. 

Her greatest service to Canada was in her influence on the men and 
women interested in the development of Home Economics. They 
imbibed inspiration, they shared in her hope. 

Alice A. Chown. 

Toronto, Ontario. 

I first met Mrs. Richards in 1894 in her laboratory in the Institute 
of Technology. I was then an instructor in chemistry in the Univer- 
sity of Nebraska and was \isiting chemical laboratories in the East. 

Many years later I was surprised and pleased to receive a letter 
from Mrs. Richards, congratulating me on the fact that the legisla- 
ture of Nebraska had made an appropriation for a woman's building 
in which our department of domestic science should be housed. As 
Mrs. Richards had so many interests and such a large circle of friends, 
it seemed to me remarkable that she should see this notice in the 
newspaper and then take the pains to write me words of congratu- 
lation. Later we secured her to give the address at the dedication 
of our new building. 

For this purpose Mrs. Richards came to Lincoln and spent three 
days there, January 18 to 20, 1909. After the dedicatory exercises 
at which she gave the address she shook hands with hundreds of peo- 
ple. When the guests were gone, I went to her room, and instead of 
finding her exhausted after her strenuous day, I foimd her sitting at 
a table writing, apparently as bright as ever. The next day she spoke 
at convocation before the students of the university on the subject 
of human eflficiency. 

On her way to Lincoln, she attended several meetings and the same 
was true of her return trip. Of course she took a prominent part in 



382 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

every meeting where she was present. Mrs. Richards' visit was a 
help and inspiration to both students and teachers in my department 
and I shall never cease to be thankful that she came to us as we began 
our work in our new building. 

Rosa Bouton. 
University of Nebraska. 

I remember so clearly a time when Mrs. Richards was lecturing at 
Teachers College and I was assisting in the Domestic Science Depart- 
ment. I wished her opinion on some work and she was as fresh to 
give it as though she had not just finished talking. Then we limched 
in Horace Mann limch room, because again I had questions and she 
wanted to see how the lunchroom was going at the same time. When 
the position at Lake Erie College was vacant I remember her sending 
for me to talk it over and after I had decided to go there her generous 
response to my questions, even by letter. 

Her readiness to put herself into the middle of your problem has 
been a constant incentive to me to pass on that helpfulness in my small 
way. Somehow, as soon as you met Mrs. Richards you had the feel- 
ing that you had always known her. She never had to waste any 
effort in getting acquainted. I never stopped to think what Mrs. 
Richards thought of me because she really was not thinking of me at 
all, it was my problem that she was interested in and there was no 
time to think of anything else. 

Rachel H. Colwell. 

West Virginia University. 

I took Mrs. Richards' course in Knoxville, Tenn., in the summer of 
1905. It consisted mainly of informal discussions and was most help- 
ful in giving a broad and sane view of the subjects. She also invited 
me frequently to her room to discuss with her the needs of my own 
particular work. In these talks she gave me practical suggestions, 
and also inspired me with an unbounded faith in the work as an educa- 
tional and a social influence. 

Elizabeth G. Holt. 

Athens, Georgia. 

It was my privilege to know Mrs. Richards for about fifteen years. 
In the daily intercourse of her ofl&ce and in the revision of the Chemis- 
try of Cooking and Cleaning during the early part of this time, her 



191 1] Personal Tributes to Mrs. Richards 383 

strength of intellect, clear vision, and mental alertness were a revela- 
tion. She seemed to me to stand alone as a leader at that time. In 
the later years, a closer relation ^-ith her in different interests con- 
nected with Home Economics increased my admiration and added to 
it a warm friendship. 

The constant impression I received was that she was a seer. She 
saw clearly future needs along educational lines and she Hved to see 
most of her prophecies fulfilled. It was often said of her that she was 
twenty years ahead of her time and she used to enjoy referring to her 
earUer books in which the desirable conditions for home life were out- 
lined in a way that was called at the time Utopian; but these condi- 
tions are now recognized and accepted. This \'ision into the future 
made her an incomparable leader. To know her and to talk with her 
was an inspiration. 

Last spring she gave three lectures at Simmons College. Fortunate, 
indeed, were the yoimg women who heard these lectures. So many 
expressed the same thought — "her face," "her simpHcity," her 
"breadth of view," impressed those young women as they did earnest 
workers everywhere. "She made me feel that / must work with more 
devotion and sincerity." That was the usual result of her talks. 

She was preeminently a helper. She gave Uberally, but not waste- 
fully, of her time and knowledge. Everyone who sought her labora- 
tory left her stronger and better able to see clearly the next step. 

Now that the inspirer, the wise leader, the clear seer has passed 
beyond, every project in which she was interested must be carried 
on with all the more earnestness. If any of these projects are weak, 
she would want them strengthened; if workers are needed, she would 
wish them found and thoroughly trained. 

S. Maria Elliott. 

Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

Which one of us is not counting over these days the benefits Mrs. 
Richards conferred upon us through the stimulus of her boundless 
energy, the scope of her conceptions, the strength of her purposes, the 
nobihtyof her ideals? The full extent of the world's indebtedness 
to this able, practical, skilful, broadminded pioneer of reformed 
methods in domestic management is incalculable; not the least part 
of this debt is due to the insight which detected that the sphere of 
the home-maker's interests and work is as broad as life, with every 
department of which it is so intimately linked. 



384 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

Little did I dream as I read her cordial welcome to me in my new 
home, characteristically full of plans for the future for us both, 
that these were her last written words to one who can never forget 
the faithful friendship, the ever ready help and sympathy, the frank 
comradeship formed many years ago by correspondence and cemented 
ten years since when it was my privilege to be her guest at Boston. 
Who can grudge the rest after toil, the reward of honest, unremitting, 
joyous labor? 

Alice Ravenhill. 

Vancouver's Island, B. C. 

Mrs. Richards was always entirely and simply personal in dealing 
with a situation. She did not try to fit personalities to a theory but 
she did have a keen reaUzation of the important truth that we must 
use people as they are, not as we would like them to be, and she put 
her mind on how the main ends could be accompHshed with the people 
available. 

When I was appointed to my present post I went to Boston and 
talked over the whole thing with her. It was during the American 
Home Economics Association meeting of 1909 and she could not find 
time for me during the day. You remember how she was up at five 
to start things in her laboratory, presided in meetings all day except 
when she shpped away and read a paper before some other of the scien- 
tific associations there meeting, ignored luncheon in order to attend 
to the laboratory, and gave the evening to association affairs. But 
she foimd that I did not mind sitting up late, so in her room after 
the evening meeting on New Year's eve we talked from half -past 
eleven to half-past one, and Mrs. Richards was just as fresh and keen 
and interested as if it were early morning. 

A characteristic bit about Mrs. Richards, I think, is what she said 
about our Practice Home. She seemed to like it very much , but of course 
she commented on things that might be better. She glanced keenly 
about at the woodwork which, not of our volition, but because it 
was so when we took the house, had many curves and convolutions, 
and said "now you can just use that as an example of how things 
ought not to be. When the girls clean this they will see for themselves 
how much more sanitary is plain woodwork." Then when she came 
to the kitchen, she said, "Why is this floor bare?" It was explained 
to her that the director had thought it advisable to have as many 
kinds of floor as possible in the building. "All wrong," said Mrs. 



igii] Personal Tributes to Mrs. Richards 385 

Richards, "of course they ought to know how to scrub a bare floor, 
but it's the worst kind of economy to have them doing it. There 
ought to be a Hnoleum on this floor." The Hnoleum went down at 
once. 

Isabel Ely Lord. 
Pratt Institute. 

I like to feel that her last message to us was one for the housewife. 
In her last course of lectures at Pratt Institute her theme to the stu- 
dents was not methods of teaching so much as the ways of helping 
the housewife personally; one troubled woman came at the close of a 
lecture for ad\ice on some question of home administration and Mrs. 
Richards, quick to put her ideals into practice, at once suggested that 
an instructor from the Institute be sent to the home and there aid and 
advise her. 

Through Mrs. Richards' influence and ad\dce a new position for 
trained women in Home Economics has lately been created in at least 
one university. The University of California last spring appointed, 
as a direct result of Mrs. Richards' work there, a trained dietitian 
whose duty it is not to provide food for the students, not to lecture 
or conduct classes, but to go among the students and into their board- 
ing clubs and fraternities and advise them on their own boarding prob- 
lems under their own individual conditions. 

Such work as this was, at the last, the nearest to Mrs. Richards' 
heart and it is good news that the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation is to raise a Memorial to Mrs. Richards, which will interpret 
for the housewife the latest findings of science. 

G"\VENDOLYN SXEWART. 

Scranton, Pa. 

The one occasion when I met Mrs. Richards, at a meeting of the 
National Education Association years ago in Denver, vividly impressed 
two things upon me — the quickness and accuracy of her memory, and 
the wideness of her interest, to say nothing of her personal charm and 
kindliness. 

I happened to arrive rather early at one of the Home Economics 
meetings and so drifted into a front seat. Mrs. Richards came and 
greeted me, and asked my name. On my reply, she grasped my arm 
with: "Why, >'0M are the one who helped to organize the Portland clean 
market campaign and became market inspector. Didn't you?" Now 



386 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

that event was quite four years in the past. In a few questions she 
"picked my brains" of the leading features of the affair — cause, organ- 
ization, method, results. "Now," she said, "I shall call upon you to 
speak later. We are discussing the high school course of study, but 
never mind that. Just stand up and tell them what you have told 
me about the clean market work. Perhaps we can get some other 
teachers to see that domestic science can be taught outside as well as 
inside the laboratory." 

Hearing that she was going to the Coast, I asked her if it would be 
possible for her to pass through Portland, and give an address. "Ah!" 
she said with what must have been a very characteristic twinkling 
smile, "Police regulations are not enough? You think you need a 
'revival' and an 'evangeUst' from time to time?" Which I assured her 
was exactly true. 

The personal touch and encouragement certainly sent me back to 
"till my own Uttle plot" more vigorously; and Mrs. Richards' interest 
in the clean market movement led many of the teachers — assembled 
from many different cities — to ask me for further details, and to won- 
der, at least, whether they might not do something along similar lines. 

Lilian E. Tingle. 
Supervisor of Domestic Science, 
in High Schools of Portland. 

My first knowledge of Mrs. Richards was as the author of the Chemis- 
try of Cooking and Cleaning, at the beginning of my own work in domes- 
tic science in 1890. Boston became my Mecca; and at the very first 
opportunity I presented myself with a note of introduction at the old 
office in the corner of her laboratory, and found the ready welcome 
that she so happily gave, no matter how busy. The first remark of 
hers that I recall was sceptical and challenging, "Teaching cookery 
from recipes on cards doesn't count!" "But," I said, "why teach 
that way?" A gleam came into her eyes as she leaned back with 
folded arms in characteristic attitude, " Well, what do you do?" Then 
followed a delightful give and take, and that moment began a friend- 
ship that counted. This memory would seem almost too small to 
recount, except that it typifies the experience of many workers in 
the Home Economics field. To all of us she has been suggestive, 
resourceful, administering the tonic of a high standard, appreciative 
of sincere and original work. 



19 1 1] Personal Tributes to Mrs. Richards 387 

True to her New England type, her approval was a matter of infer- 
ence rather than direct expression, yet one can hear still her "Good!" 
when occasion warranted. Truly it was this simple and happy per- 
sonal touch, the quality that so often brought the remark, "Mrs. 
Richards is a dear,'^ that made her larger work so potent in its effect. 
And there is no one else like her. 

Helen Kinne. 

Teachers College, New York City. 

In meeting Mrs. Richards, I have always felt that she was greatly 
interested in the work here, and the knowing that there was a strong 
woman to whom we could go for ad\dce and counsel has in itself been 
a help. In the fall of 1906, there was a good deal of talk by people 
opposed to Household Science that it was only a fad and was not 
here to stay. I wrote Mrs. Richards about it and she wrote back 
as follows: "The study of healthful living conditions has come to 
stay, the particular designation of the various courses is immaterial. 
Physical degeneration and mental flabbiness is too apparent in Anglo- 
Saxon communities to be ignored. Economic and ethical studies, 
whether in the departments of sociology, of ethics, or of science are 
bound to come more and more to the front. 

"The investigation of household problems is bound to come before 
the research department, as the investigations of water supply and 
sewerage problems have come. There will be university courses in 
these subjects just as soon as the colleges will give credits for high 
school work." 

Annie L. Laird. 

University of Toronto, 

A woman of Mrs. Richards' cahbre could not be provincial. Even 
though living in Boston, the home of many reforms, she was able to 
recognize in the younger West the greater opportunity for progressive 
experimental work. Many trips she made West to encourage and 
inspire us in our pioneer work. Often she said, "You are not bound 
by traditions as are we in the East. You are free to try whatever 
methods seem to you to be best. You can help work out the problems 
for us." 

Edna D. Day. 

University of Kansas. 



388 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

When cookery was introduced into the public schools of Boston in 
connection with Mrs. Hemenway's work, Mrs. Richards' connection 
with it was quite unoflScial but she gave valuable suggestions freely 
and was tremendously interested in the progress of the work. She 
gave one very suggestive lesson to the first class of five that we trained 
for pubhc school teaching. I know of no one who gave more gener- 
ously and always of her best than did Ellen H. Richards. 

Amy M. Homans. 
Wellesley, Mass. 



SOME LESSONS I HAVE LEARNED IN THE LINE OF 
PHILANTHROPIC WORK. 

A Report Made to Mr. Robert Treat Paine Regarding Plans 
FOR New Buildings for the Wells Memorlal Association. 

Ellen H. Richards. 

(i) All true help to our neighbors, to mankind in the broad sense, 
must be educational, and much of it indirect work. Very often we 
must not allow our neighbor to suspect what we really want to do for 
him. All education is slow work and makes httle apparent headway 
except with children, but thiough them it spreads to the family. 

(2) We can not give this true help until we can get the point of view 
of our neighbors and look at our enterprise through their eyes, then 
we can make them participants in it so that they will be confiding, 
ready to tell us how things may better please the wider neighborhood. 
This sense of part proprietoi^hip in the scheme is, I believe, essential 
to success. 

(3) The prejudices of the neighborhood must be carefully considered 
and only then will any effort to overcome them be successful when 
the first two propositions have been carried out. Take as a motto — 
Win the confidence and respect of the neighborhood and you can lead 
them an^'where; drive them, never. 

(4) In order to do this one must not start too far above them, for 
instance, too much finish and perfection will drive away those one 
wishes to attract. A certain homely famiharity attracts most strongly. 
The best lesson I ever had came to me the other day when I asked 
where the teachers from a certain school came from. "Oh! from our 
own section, we do not want to make the people unfit to live in their 
country, only to help them to live better in it." 

(5) If I were now to undertake such work as was in mind by you in 
planning the Coffee House, I would first convert the architect and have 
the restaurant and kitchen so as to have the best Hghted and the cheer- 
iest corner and not so large a room at first that it could not be crowded. 
Mankind loves a crowd and where everybody goes is the place to go. 
I would not have the biUiard room in any way connected or in sight. 

389 



390 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

A great many people look askance at billiards, I believe women and 
children keep away very largely from a billiard room; and in the ques- 
tion of food it is first the women and children we must reach. 

(6) I would fit up simply but with the utmost cleanUness and with 
an eye to future extension, which, however, should not be evident. 
In choosing helpers, I would start with no drones, only workers, and 
those not too far above the people to reach them. Many a Pleasant 
Street customer of the New England Kitchen has been won over while 
making change or even over washing the unclean pail. A customer 
once gained, I would not attract attention to the large things I was 
doing. Hold him or know the reason why. Somebody of influence, 
as the priest, could vouch for your respectabiHty. Use all right, mer- 
cantile methods, give certain privileges, hot and cold water, " change 
for a quarter," etc., etc. This means that even the scrub women 
and chore boy are part and parcel of this kindly work for one's neigh- 
bor. 

The Art of Right Living. 

America today is wasting its human possibiUties even more prodi- 
gally than its material wealth. 

We seem to have assimilated so deeply the idea that man is lord 
of all the earth that we do not include man himself in the class over 
which he rules. 

The inner sense of ineffectiveness is the unrecognized cause of the 
restless discontent so prevalent today. No person who is accomplish- 
ing something, seeing it grow under his hands to what it was in thought, 
is discontented. 

We have lost pride in our work and have transferred our distaste 
for poor work to work itself, to the great danger of our physical and 
moral health. 

Pleasure in work lessens expense of living more than any other 
single thing. 

Power to work is man's capital. 

An enthusiasm for health must be aroused by some means if an 
effective life is to be maintained in the midst of the increasing menaces 
to its full perfection. 



DEGREES. SOCIETIES, AND PUBLISHED WRITINGS 
OF ELLEN H. RICHARDS. 

Richards, Ellen H. (nee Swallow), A.M., S.B. (M.I.T., 1873,) 
D.Sc, (Smith 1910), Fellow American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, Member American Institute of Mining 
Engineers, Public Health Association, Association of Collegiate 
Alumnae, National Geographic Society, National Conservation 
Association, American Chemical Society, Society of Arts, Amer- 
ican Economic Association, Non-resident Member Washington 
Academy of Sciences. 

List of Published Writings. 

1875. Analysis of Samarskite. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVn, 
pp. 424-428. 
Occurrence of Boracic Acid in Mineral Waters. Id., XVIT, 

pp. 428-430- 
Chemical Composition of Some Mineral Species from New- 
bur>-port, Lead Ore. Id., XVII, pp. 462-465. 

1877. (With M. S. Cheney.) A New and Ready Method for the 

Estimation of Nickel in Pyrrhotites and Mattes. Am. 
Jour. Sci. (3), XIV, pp. 178-181. 

1878. (With Alice W. Palmer.) Notes on Antimony Tannate. 

Am. Jour. Sci. (3), XVI, pp. 196-198, 361-364. 

1879. Naphtha Process for Cleaning Wool. Bull. Nat. Asso. Wool 

Manufacturers, IX, No. 2. 

1880. On the Adulteration of Groceries. Rep. Mass. State Bd. of 

Health., etc., I, Supp. (Dept. of Health) pp. 55-56. 
First Lessons in Minerals for Grammar Schools. 
1882. The Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning — A Manual for 

Housekeepers. i2mo, pp. 90. Boston: Estes and Lauriat. 
First Lessons on Minerals. i2mo., pp. 32, Boston, Second 

Edition, 1884, pp. 50. 
Notes on Some Reactions of Titanium. Trans. Am. Inst. 

Min. Etig., XI, p. 90. 

391 



392 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

1885 . Science in Common Schools. Science, VI, p. 289. 

Note on the Determination of Carbon Monoxide. Am. Chem. 
Jour., Vn, p. 143. 

1886. Food Materials and Their Adulterations, Cloth, i2mo, pp. 

179. Boston: Estes and Lauriat. 

1887. (With Marion Talbot.) Home Sanitation. Cloth, i2mo, 

pp. 80, Boston. 

1888. Food Adulteration and its Detection, by J. P. Battershall. 

A Review. Tech. Quart., i, p. 232. Ticknor and Co. 
Sanitary Science in the Home. Jour. Frank. Inst. Reprinted. 

1889. Domestic Economy in Public Education. Educational Mono- 

graphs, published by the New York College for the Train- 
ing of Teachers, H, No. 4. 

1890. The Right Application of Heat to the Conversion of Food 

Material. Trans. Am. Asso. Adv. ScL, IndianapoUs, August, 

1890. 
(With E. O. Jordan.) Investigations upon Nitrification and 

the Nitrifying Organisms. Rpt. Mass. State Board of 

Health on Water Supply and Sewage, Pt. II, p. 864. 
(With Lottie A. Bragg.) The Distribution of Phosphorus 

and Nitrogen in the Products of Modern Milling. Tech. 

Quar., Ill, p. 246. 
The Relation of College Women to Progress in Domestic 

Science. Trans. Collegiate Alumnae. 

1891. A Dehcate Test for Alum in Potable Water. Tech. Quar., 

IV, p. 94. 
An Apparatus for Determining the LiabiUty of Oils to Spon- 
taneous Combustion. Tech. Quar., IV, p. 346. 

1892. (With Edward Atkinson.) The Science of Nutrition. Sq. 

8vo, pp. 179. Springfield, Mass. 
An Account of the New England Kitchen and Rumford Food 
Laboratory. Prepared for the Meeting of the Mass. Med. 
Society in Boston, June 7 and 8, 1892. Pp. 6. 

1893. The American Home. Synopsis of a Course of Lectures. 

Circular, pp. 18. Boston. 
Carbon Dioxid as a Measure of the Efficiency of Ventilation, 

Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, XV (October). 
Prophylactic and Therapeutic Value of Food. Trans. Am^ 

Public Health Asso. Also Rumford Kitchen Leaflet, No. 14, 



191 1] Writings of Ellen H. Richards 393 

1893 • Dietaries for Wage Earners and Their Families. lyth Rpt. 
Tr. Bd. of Health of N. J. 
The Food of School Children and Young Students. Rumford 
Kitchen Leaflet, No. 13. (Reprinted in New England 
Kitchen Magazine, June 1894.) 

1894 . (With Elizabeth Mason.) The Effect of Heat upon the Diges- 

tibility of Gluten. Tech. Quar., VII, i, pp. 63. 

(With Marion Talbot.) Food as a Factor in Student Life. 
A Contribution to the Study of Student Diet. Chicago: 
Chicago University Press. 

Nutritive Value of Common Food Materials (With Sugges- 
tions Regarding the Cooking of Food, by Edward Atkin- 
son). U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stations, Bui. 21, 
Washington, D. C. 

1895. (With J. W. EUms.) Coloring Matter of Natural Waters. 

Am. Asso. Adv. Sci., also Jour. Am. Chem. Soc. 
Notes on Hospital Dietaries. Am. Jour. Insanity. 

1896. Water and Air as Food. {Rumford Kitchen Leaflet, No. 6.) 

Am. Kitchen Magazine, March, 1896. 
(With Geo. W. Rolfe, A.M.) Reduction of Nitrites by Bac- 
teria and Consequent loss of Nitrogen. Tech. Quar. Vol. 

IX, I, March, 1896. 
The Teaching of Sanitary Chemistry. Am. Asso. Adv. of 

Sci. Buffalo Meeting. 
Some Points in the Use of Depth of Color as a Measure of 

Chemical Contents. Am. Asso. Adv. Sci. Buffalo Meeting. 
Municipal Responsibility for Health School Houses. Reprinted 

from Trans. Am. Public Health Asso., 1897. 
Hardness of Water and the Methods by which it is Determined. 

Rpt. Mass. State Board of Health. 
Hospital Diet. Am. Kitchen Magazine, April, 1896. 
The True Province of the Pubhc Schools. New England 

Teachers^ Association. 

1897 . Domestic Science. What It Is and How to Study It at Home. 

Outlook, Apiil, 1897. 
Foods — Comparative Value and Diet. Northwestern Jour. 

Education, April 24, 1897. 
Manual Training for Girls. Proc. Am. Manual Training 

Asso. 



394 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

1897 . The Place of Science in Woman's Education. Address at 

Dedication of Science Hall, Lake Erie Seminary, Detroit. 
Published in Am. Kitchen Magazine, September, 1897. 

A New Color Standard for the Use of Water Analysis. Am. 
Asso. Adv. Sci. Detroit Meeting. 

Notes on the Evidence of Dissociation in Dilute Soap Solu- 
tion. Am. Asso. Adv. Sci. Detroit Meeting. 

1898. (With Arthur T. Hopkins.) The Normal Chlorin of the 

Water SuppUes of Jamaica. Tech. Quar., XL 
Domestic Science as a Synthetic Study for Girls. Proc. 

National Ed. Asso. 
The Urgent Need of the Sanitary Education in the Public 

Schools. Reprinted Trans. Am. Pub. Health Asso., XXIV. 
Count Rumford and His Work for Humanity. Am. Kitchen 

Magazine. Also Rumjord Kitchen Leaflet, No. i. 
The Composition of Oscillaria prolifica and Its Relation to 

the Quality of Water SuppUes. Am. Asso. Adv. Sci. 

Boston Meeting. 
The Ideal College Course for Women. Pub. by Asso. of 

Collegiate Alumnae. 

1899. University Laboratories in Relation to the Investigation of 

Pubhc Health Problems and to Commercial Work. Am. 
Pub. Health Asso. MinneapoHs Meeting, Oct. 1909. 

The Cost of Living. John Wiley and Son. 

Waste of Energy in Organization. Outlook, October 9, 1899. 

Good Food for Little Money. Rumford Kitchen Leaflet, 
No. 16. 

Public Kitchens in Relation to School Lunches and to Res- 
taurants. Rumford Kitchen Leaflet, No. 19. 

The Food of Institutions. Rumford Kitchen Leaflet, No. 20. 

(With S. Maria ElUott.) The Chemistry of Cooking and 
Cleaning. New Ed. 

Food Materials and their Adulteration. New Ed. 

Domestic Science. The Club Woman, March, 1899. 

1900. Air, Water, and Food in Relation to Health. John Wiley and 

Sons. 
(With A. G. Woodman.) Air, Water, and Food for Colleges. 

John Wiley and Sons. 
The Work of College Women for the Home. Leaflet for 

Paris Exposition. 



igii] Writings of Ellen H. Richards 395 

1900 . Good Luncheons for Rural Schools Without a Kitchen. Whit- 

comb and Barrows. 

1901 . The Water Supplies of Southeastern Alaska and Notes on the 

Water Supplies in the Black Hills of South Dakota and 
Vicinity. Trans. A. I. M. E. Mexican Meeting, Novem- 
ber, 1901. 
(With Isabel F. Hyams.) Notes on the Potable Waters of 
Me.xico. Mexican Meeting, November 1901. 

1902 . Alum in Water. A. H. Law's Modification of the Longwood 

Test. Reprint, Tech. Quar., XV, No. 4. 
(Assisted by Louise Harding Williams.) Dietary Computer. 

John W^iley and Sons. 
Source and Significance of Nitrites in Streams. Rpt Am. 

Pub. Health Asso., Vol. XXXI. 

1903. Thirty Years Progress in Water Analysis. Am. Asso. Adv. 

Science, St. Louis, Dec. 1903. 
1903-05. Report Two Years' Experiment in Social Economics. 
Household Aid Co. Woman's Education Asso. 

1904. (With Lily Miller Kendall.) Permanent Standards in Water 

Analysis. Tech. Quar., XVII, No. 3, Sept. 1904. 
First Lessons in Food and Diet for High Schools. 
Plain Words About Foods. {Rumjord Kitchen Leaflets.) 

Whitcomb and Barrows. 

1905. Cost of Li\ing. Third Edition. John Wiley and Sons, 
Cost of Food. John Wiley and Sons. 

Cost of Shelter. John Wiley and Sons. 

1906. Wanted, A Test for Man Power. Reprinted, Clarkson Bulle- 

tiuj in. 

(With Charles W. Moulton.) Ten Years' Experience with 
Broad Irrigation at Vassar College. Sanitary Sec, Boston 
Soc. Civil Eng. March 7, 1906. 

1907 . Art of Right Living. Whitcomb and Barrows. 
Sanitation in Daily Life. Whitcomb and Barrows. 

1908. Farm Home, as a Center of Social Progress. Pub. Ency- 

clopedia Am. Agriculture, Vol. III. 
(With E. M. Wade, R. W. Gilbert, C. E. Hanson, and J. M. 

Talbot.) Methods of Testing the Efiiciency of Ventilation. 

Tech. Quar., XXI, No. 3, Sept. 1908. 
Cost of Cleanness. John Wiley and Sons. 



396 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

1908 . Laboratory Notes on Industrial Water Analysis. John Wiley 

and Sons. 

Home Economics in Elementary and Secondary Schools. 
Proc. Nat. Education Asso. June 29- July 3, 1908, Cleve- 
land. 

Survey Courses in the Sciences and Home Economics. Re- 
print, Educational Review, March, 1908. 

1909 . Influence of Industrial Arts and Sciences upon Rural and City 

Home Life. Reprint, Proc. Nat. Ed. yl 550., Denver, Colo., 

1909. 
Apphcation of the Household Arts and Sciences in the Ele- 
mentary Schools. Reprint, Proc. Nat. Ed. Asso., Denver, 

Colo., 1909. 
Lost Arts of Housekeeping May be Revived through the 

School. Hygiene and Physical Education, Dec, 1909. 
Household Labor in the Twentieth Century. Address at 

Dedication of the Home Economics Building, University 

of Nebraska. 

1910. Instructive Inspection. Read before Am. Pub. Health Asso., 

Oct., 1909. Am. Jour. Pub. Hygiene, 1910. 
Euthenics, or the Science of Controllable Environment. 

Whitcomb and Barrows. 
Conservation Through Sanitation. 
Domestic Waste. Pub. in Report of Mass. Commission on 

Cost of Living. 

191 1. The Present Status and Future Development of Domestic 

Science Courses in the High School. 
The Value of Housework in Teaching Responsibility. 
Value of the Exhibits (Home Economics). Home ideals. 
Lessons in Sanitary and Economic Cooking and in the Use of 

the Aladdin Oven. 
The Elevation and Habilitation of Applied Science to the 

Rank of a Professional CalUng. Written to be delivered 

at the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Massachusetts Institute 

of Technology. 



EXHIBITS AND PRIZES. 

Mrs. Richards earnestly believed in the teaching power of exhibits 
and all other means of ocular demonstration by which interest is 
aroused in the problems of daily living. 

She herself says in a little leaflet entitled Exhibits and the Home 
Economics Movement: 

To the casual onlooker the growth of the domestic science cult may seem to 
have been fortuitous or spasmodic or sporadic even, but there is a distinct trail 
back to the Philadelphia Exposition of 1876, when America was awakened to its 
own deficiencies in the culinary art, and in house furnishing and decoration among 
other things. These deficiencies clearly indicated the necessity for a wider knowl- 
edge of science in household management. The manual training idea developed 
from the work of Russia and Sweden shown at this exposition gave impetus and 
opportunity to American adaptation. Many lines of progress started in this world 
exposition of 1876. We are concerned now with but one little field. 

The cookery side developed faster than the other departments of household man- 
agement, and domestic science came to mean chiefly a knowledge of food. The 
Chicago Exposition had its Rumford Kitchen, an e.xhibit under the auspices of 
the State of Massachusetts. This practical illustration of scientific principles 
modified the ideas of the world as to the place and importance of cookery in 
education. Indeed, there seemed a distinct danger that other lines would be 
neglected, so that in the Exposition at St. Louis it was determined to show the wide 
scope of the subject as it had been developed in the sessions of the Lake Placid 
Conference and elsewhere. A space was furnished under the name of the Mary 
Lowell Stone Home Economics Exhibit. This illustrated the appUcation of 
modem knowledge to home life, chiefly in economics and jesthetic lines, all bear- 
ing upon the health and efficiency of the people. 

Her own work as an exhibitor began apparently in 1886. Mr. 
Charles R. Allen of the Massachusetts State Board of Education 
writes: 

In 18S6 I was employed in connection with Dr. A. H. Gill of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology by Mrs. Richards to work out a system of blocks and 
charts which should show the chemical constituents of the human body. Our 
bases, I think, were the analyses and average ration figures which had been worked 
out in Germany a year or two previous, and my work was to get out a model set 
of charts and samples to bring those figures into practical shape. This work in- 
cluded (i) A set of charts showing the cost of a unit of nutrition as found in a 
number of definite articles as purchased at market prices, and a chart showing 

397 



398 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the analysis of a number of food articles in terms of water, proteid, carbohydrates 
and fats; (2) a set of blocks showing the average composition of the human body 
in terms of water, carbohydrates, fats, mineral matter, etc., another set show- 
ing the average income and outgo in water, carbon dioxide, proteid, etc., for twenty- 
four hours, and a large number of prepared specimens showing the composition 
of various standard foods, that is, sets of bottles containing the actual amount of 
water, cellulose, proteid, starch, etc., in one pound of the article. 

My immediate connection with the investigation closed when these sample 
sets had been worked out and completed, but I have always understood that a 
number of those sets were made from the standard set. 

Mrs. Richards evidently alludes to these blocks and charts in her 
article printed in the April number of the Journal, where she speaks 
of a set being sent to Teachers College in 1886, and students of Home 
Economics will remember seeing them in other institutions and in 
exhibits. It was not until many years after that charts covering the 
same ground were made under the direction of the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations of the United States Department of Agriculture. 

Her next interest of this kind seems to have been the exhibit of the 
New England Kitchen made, under the name of the Rumford Kitchen, 
as part of the Massachusetts Educational Exhibit at the World's 
Fair in Chicago in 1893. This was brought about by Gen. Francis 
A. Walker, then President of the Institute of Technology. Ten stand- 
ard luncheons were furnished bearing on the bill of fare the then 
novel accompaniment of the estimated food value in proteid, fat and 
carbohydrates with the cost of raw materials in each case. The edu- 
cational features of the exhibit also included pictures of various for- 
eign kitchens, and a library containing Count Rumford's complete 
works, together with models of the various appliances invented by 
him. The Rumford Kitchen Leaflets, some twenty or more, written 
by people who were studying the food question from the scientific 
point of view, were distributed to visitors. 

The Boston Branch of the Associate Collegiate Alumnae held an 
exhibit in Copley Hall in March, 1902, of the contributions of college 
women to Home Economics. The same idea on a much larger scale 
was developed in the fall of 1902 through the Mechanics Fair Exhibit. 
The Educational and Industrial Union had the whole Women's Depart- 
ment of the fair. Mrs. Richards was much interested. She, with 
Miss Fifield (now Mrs. Brooks), planned entirely the exhibits in Room 
I, for which the money was furnished by Miss Emma Munroe in mem- 
ory of Mary Lowell Stone, and the Mary Lowell Stone Home Eco- 
nomics Exhibit was collected in connection with this work. 



igii] Exhibits and Prizes 399 

Fitted out by Miss Emma Munroe, who also paid transportation 
and other expenses, the Mary Stone Lowell exhibit of household 
furnishings, photographs, etc., was sent to various clubs and insti- 
tutions of learning. It was incomplete but in certain lines very sug- 
gestive, including house plans, plans for ventilation, floor coverings, 
and menus with calculated nutrients and costs. A study of the house- 
keeper's budget and business methods, such as the card catalogue 
applied to the home, were also on view. The exhibit was shown 
with many additions at the World's Fair held at St. Louis. 

Miss Henrietta Goodrich writes that the Women's Educational 
and Industrial Union of Boston, when installing their many exhibits 
as in the section "Women in Industry Domestic Service," in connec- 
tion with the exhibit of industrial conditions in relation to public 
health, safety and welfare held in Horticultural Hall in 1907 always 
consulted Mrs. Richards. 

In a series of food exhibits held annually in Perkins Hall, with the 
idea of stimulating the interest of the Union consignors and of any 
other producers of food, in the quality of the articles they produced, 
and to help to formulate standards of quahty for certain groups of 
cooked articles, for example, "breads," Mrs. Richards acted as juror 
and was consulted in planning these exhibits. 

Prizes. — Mrs. Richards was also a wise adviser in many plans 
where prizes were offered. She was one of five persons requested, in 
1889, by the Public Health Association to adjudge the $500 prize offered 
by Mr. Henry Lomb of Rochester, N. Y., for an essay on Scientific 
and Practical Cooking for People of Moderate Means. She advised 
concerning the prizes offered for house plans offered by the Providence 
and Boston branches of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, the 
result being nine or ten interesting plans. She was equally interested 
in the prize offered in 1906 by the Domestic Reform League Committee 
of the Woman's Educational and Industrial Union for the best prac- 
tical plan of household management. 



jDEPARTMENTj 
OF 
^.OLSLhOLD SCIENCE^ 



MEMORIAL SERVICES FOR MRS. RICHARDS. 

Many memorial services have been held for Mrs. Richards by the 
various organizations with which she was connected and interesting 
reports of the addresses and resolutions sent to the Journal, but it 
is found impossible to print them. Their feeling is well expressed in 
the reports from the general meeting of the Association held in San 
Francisco which follows and the resolutions passed by the Institu- 
tion Economics section at Lake Placid as given on page 408. 

MEMORIAL SERVICES AT SAN FRANCISCO. CAL.. JULY 12. 1911. 

Sincerest tributes were paid to the memory of the late Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, 
former president of the Lake Placid Conferences on Home Economics and of the 
American Home Economics Association, at the session of the American Home 
Economics Association, held at the art institute. 

The meeting was presided over by the president. Miss Isabel Bevier of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois. President Charles H. Keyes of the National Council of P duca- 
tion, was the first speaker, and he was followed by Dean Connelly of the Carnegie 
Technical Schools, Pittsburg. 

From every one who spoke came the different glimpses vouchsafed them of Mrs. 
Richards' personality and intellect. Some had studied under her in the Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology; some had been associated with her in her great 
work as a sanitary engineer; others had been taught all the best and most useful 
things in Household Economics at her lectures or in her laboratory. There were 
those who had been engaged in research work with her; those who had been asso- 
ciated with her in educational work; those who had had the privilege of her personal 
friendship, and those who had been strangers in a strange city, to whom she had 
had time always to say a kindly word and do a kindly act. Her brilliant mind, 
her unusual learning, her unfailing womanliness, her tremendous power of work, 
her enthusiasm, her gentle friendship, her never failing sense of humor, her amia- 
bility, and her charm as a housewife and a hostess were fully described. 

Those who spoke were, besides President Keyes and Dean Connelly, Mrs. 
Fanny Fern Andrews of Boston; Dr. Jessica Pei.xotto of the University of Califor- 
nia, as a fellow professor; Miss Ethel Moore, who knew Mrs. Richards as a Vassar 
student; Doctor True of the Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, at Washington, D. C; Mrs. W. W. Douglas of the Collegiate Alumnae, 
which was founded by Mrs. Richards; Ludwig Rosenstein, who was a student at 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Miss Helen Louise Johnson, associate 
editor of Good Housekeeping; Doctor Hyde of the University of California; Miss 
Ednah Rich of Santa Barbara Normal School; and Miss Ellen Huntington of the 
Utah Agricultural College. 

400 



19 1 1] Minutes of the Executive Committee 401 

Miss S. Maria Elliott of Simmons College, Boston, told of the plan for an Ellen 
H. Richards memorial fund which will, it is hoped, amount to $100,000 by Christ- 
mas. The use to which the income of this sum will be devoted has not yet been 
determined. Names of all who would contribute should be sent to the president 
of the committee, Mrs. W. H. Barrett, 108 Johnson Street, Brooklyn, N. Y. or 
to Miss Ednah Rich, State Normal School, Santa Barbara, Cal. 

MINUTES OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON THE 
DEATH OF MRS. RICHARDS. 

The Executive Committee of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation desires to place on its records a statement of the services of 
the late Ellen H. Richards, the first president, and more recently, 
the honorary president of the Association. 

Mrs. Richards was the founder of the Home Economics Movement 
in America, and until her death, March 30, 191 1, she was, in all its 
councils and tmdertakings, universally regarded as leader. Graduating 
from Vassar College in 1870, and afterward going to the Massachu- 
setts Institute of Technology to fit herself in scientific subjects, her 
attention was turned to the apphcations of science for human welfare, 
particularly in the matters of air, water, and food which so profoundly 
affect the daily life. While she became a leader in laboratory research 
and instruction in sanitary chemistry, in the Institute of Technology, 
and thus a scientific worker of national prominence, she attained a 
unique place and performed a world-service as a woman scientist, a 
pioneer who, on the one hand, encouraged women wishing to enter 
science, and on the other, pointed out one way, the most useful way 
perhaps, in which trained women may aid humanity — by applying 
science to the management of the household. Mrs. Richards was the 
dean of women workers in science. 

In the first apphcation of her scientific training to purposes of wel- 
fare, in 1882, she pubHshed the Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning, 
and thus initiated her long series of books, the first books by an 
acknowledged scientific worker which treated of household problems. 
The mere titles of her books are an index of the service she rendered. 

Mrs. Richards appreciated the value of organization in the promul- 
gation of ideas. Through her initiative, the New England Kitchen 
in Boston opened the way to school lunches, the exhibit of the Rumf ord 
Kitchen at Chicago Exposition attracted national attention to better 
nutrition, and the Household Aid Company of Boston made the first 
well planned experiment in household service. Under her leadership, 



402 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the first conference on Home Economics was called at Lake Placid in 
1899, and met annually during the next decade with her as its chair- 
man; under her inspiration, it took form in a national organization, 
the American Home Economics Association, in 1909, and to the pres- 
idency of this organization Mrs. Richards was elected by acclamation; 
under her direction, this Association established the Journal of Home 
Economics, the first scientific periodical devoted to advanced house- 
keeping. By unanimous vote, Mrs. Richards was reelected presi- 
dent of the American Home Economics Association for a second term, 
at the end of which time by her own request, she was allowed to give 
up the office of active president. The Association accordingly invited 
her to become honorary president, which ofl5ce with that of the chair- 
manship of the Committee of the Journal of Home Economics, she 
held at the time of her death. 

Whatever the Home Economics movement may accomplish through 
public school instruction, through education in colleges and scientific 
schools, through the women's club movement, and through other 
agencies, it owes much to the wise mind and the generous impulses of 
this woman, who sought and found in the exact science of the labora- 
tory a firm and enduring basis for the art of right living. 

THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND. 

On June 6 in the Margaret Cheney Room of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Boston, a meeting presided over by the first 
vice president of the Association, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, was held 
in order to discuss the raising of a memorial fund to the memory of 
Mrs. Richards. 

Various speakers dwelt on the special interest felt by Mrs. Richards 
in the work of the Home Economics Association and its organ, the 
Journal of Home Economics. She had remarked at the St. Louis 
m.eeting, when she declined to remain the active head of the Associa- 
tion, that she wished to devote herself to putting the Journal on a 
firm foundation. She also had agreed with the editor that the time 
had come for very definite and practical help to the housewife by bring- 
ing to her attention in the most simple and usable form the results of 
scientific investigation. 

The outcome of a discussion on these points was embodied in a 
resolution tliat an Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund of $100,000 
be raised, having for its object the collection, interpretation, and 



ipii] The Memorial Fund 403 

dissemination of the results of scientific investigation in connection 
with the improvement of daily life, the fund to be raised under the 
auspices of the American Home Economics Association. The fund 
will be intrusted to a board of at least five trustees representing for 
the present the American Home Economics Association and the fam- 
ily of Mrs. Richards. It was also the sense of the meeting that the 
permanent committee, when formed, should seek legal advice imme- 
diately, in order that the fund may be properly safeguarded and 
expended along lines intended by its founders. 

The committee of five finally selected to have charge of the raising 
of the fund is as follows: Mrs. William Hunter Barrett, Chairman, 
108 Johnson Street, Brooklyn, N. Y., Dr. C. F. Langworthy, OflSce 
of Experiment Stations, Washington, D. C, Miss Isabel Hyams, 
26 Wales Street, Dorchester, Mass., Miss Ednah A. Rich, 303 Sota 
Street, Santa Barbara, California, and Dr. B. R. Andrews, Teachers 
College, N. Y. 

This committee has been hard at work since its appointment and 
has collected the names of 150,000 persons who are interested in Mrs. 
Richards and in the Home Economics movement. These names have 
been distributed according to states and cities and have been handed 
ov^er to a number of state representatives, who will have charge of 
the soliciting. Every one on this large list will be called on personally 
and asked to give $1 .00 . It is hoped that all will be seen by November 
1 5 and that the reports of the workers will be received in time to make 
it possible to hand over the fund to the Association before the first of 
the new year. 

Contributions and names of persons interested will be gratefully 
received and may be sent to any member of the committee. 

Caroline Weeks Barrett. 



LAKE PLACID MEETING OF AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

ADMINISTRATION SECTION. 

Meeting by Special Invitation at Lake Placid Club, Lake Placid, 
N. Y., June 27-July i, igii. 

Program. 

Tuesday, June 2^. 

Memorial exercises for Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. 
Tribute, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Chairman. 

The Proposed Memorial, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold. 

Address of Welcome, Melvil, Dewey, President of Lake Placid Club. 

The Existing Demand for Trained Workers in Institutions. Miss Martha 
Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. 

Food Administration in Institutions: Plan, Equipment, Cost and Organiza- 
tion of Kitchens for Two Hundred. Miss Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club. 

Lunch Rooms in Industrial Establishments. Miss Gertrude Sanborn, Nasraith 
County, Toronto, Canada. 

Home Problems in Food Administration. Miss Flora Rose, Cornell Uni- 
versity. 

The Control of Insect Pests in Institutions. Dr. E. Porter Felt, State Ento- 
mologist, Albany, N. Y. 

Wednesday, Jwie 28. 

The Purchase and Control of Supplies in Institutions — Methods of Specifying, 
Contracting, Storing, Distributing, Consuming and Accounting for SuppHes. Mr. 
Henry C. Wright, State Charities Aid Association, New York. (A limited num- 
ber of copies of Mr. Wright's report on Fiscal Control of Institutions are avail- 
able for those attending; write to B. R. Andrews, Teachers College, New York.) 

State and Municipal Documents for Institution Workers, Dr. C. F. L ingworthy, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

New Uses for the Respiration Calorimeter. Dr. Langworthy. 

Thursday, June 2Q. 

Accounting and Records for Institutions. Professor William Morse Cole, 
Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University. 

Graphic Charts of Business Records. Melvil Dewey, President of Lake Placid 
Club. 

404 



igii] The Lake Placid Meeting 405 

Supervision of Tenements. Miss Emily Dimviddie, Trinity Church Corpora- 
tion, New York City. 

Welfare Work for Employes. Miss Helen H. Snow, Curtis Publishing Co. 
Philadelphia. 

Friday, June 30. 

Prindples Underlying the Management of Institutions. Miss Adelaide Nutting, 
Professor of Institutional Administration, Teachers CoUege, Columbia University; 

Scientific Management applied to Institutions, Royal R. Keeley, Taber Mfg. 
Co., Philadelphia. 

Essential Training for Institution Management. Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, 
Dean of Simmons College, Boston. 

Rural Sanitary Conditions, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

Business session, election of oflScers, appointment of committees. 

Resolutions. Continuation of discussion on accounting. 

REPORT OF THE ADMINISTR.\TION SECTION. 
Mrs. Mary H. Moran, Secretary pro tern. 

The second annual conference of the Administration Section was 
even more successful than the conference held in 1910, both in attend- 
ance and in the papers presented and the discussions they inspired. 
The roll call at the opening session, June 27, showed that 46 members 
and delegates were present and this number was increased at later 
sessions to nearly 100. A matter for congratulation was the large 
number present from pubHc institutions, particularly those in New 
York State. 

Before proceeding to business a meeting in memory of Mrs. Ellen 
H. Richards was held. Mrs. Dewey, chairman, paid a tribute to 
Mrs. Richards and Her Influence and dwelt particularly upon her 
work as the founder of the American Home Economics Association. 
Minutes on the death of Mrs. Richards adopted by the Executive 
Committee of the Association were read by C. F. Langworthy, and 
Miss Sarah L. Arnold presented a report of the plans formulated by 
the Memorial Committee appointed to arrange a fitting memorial in 
honor of Mrs. Richards. 

Beginning the business session, Mr. Dewey welcomed the conference 
to Lake Placid, and Miss Martha Van Rensselaer presented a paper on 
the Existing Demand for Trained Workers in Institutions, and Mrs. 
Dewey a paper on Institution Kitchens, Plan, Equipment, and Cost of 
Organization. Both papers were followed by discussions which were 



4o6 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

continued at the evening session. A specific feature of the discussion 
was the recognition of the importance of careful studies of the 
relative amount of work required for household tasks and the possi- 
bility of securing increased efficiency with equal or less labor. Miss 
Gertrude Sanborn presented a paper at the evening session on Lunch 
Room Management; The Lunch Room in Business, and Miss Alice 
Freeman Walmsley briefly described the plans and methods followed 
in her management of Wellesley Inn which has proved a successful 
enterprise. A paper on Insect Pests by Dr. E. P. Felt, N. Y. State 
entomologist, with discussion, closed the evening session. 

Professor William Morse Cole presided at the morning session, June 
28, and introduced Henry C. Wright of the Russell Sage Foundation, 
who presented an interesting and valuable paper on Supphes: Their 
Purchase and Control, embodying the results of an extended study of 
public institutions in New York, Illinois, and Iowa, which Professor 
Wright has carried on for the Sage Foimdation. A discussion fol- 
lowed the paper which was of special interest in that it embodied com- 
ments and experience contributed by Dr. Shamahan, Dr. Bernstein, 
Mr. Carroll, and other representatives of public institutions. 

Miss Sarah L. Arnold, who presided at the evening session, and 
others discussed the estabhshment of the fund in memorj^ of Mrs. 
Richards, and it was particularly urged that all present make an effort 
to send to Mrs. William Hunter Barrett, 108 Johnson Street, Brook- 
lyn, N. Y., who is chairman of the committee having the fund in charge, 
lists of names of those who might be interested. The discussion of 
Professor Wright's paper was continued, and following this, two 
papers were presented by C. F. Langworthy, Chief of Nutrition 
Investigations, Office of Experiment Stations, namely: The Respi- 
ration Calorimeter at the Department of Agriculture and Experiments 
Which Are Being Made With It, and State and Municipal Documents 
as Sources of Information for Institution Managers and Other Students 
of Home Economics. In the discussion following it was recognized 
that such documents might be made of the greatest use as sources 
of information if regularly collected and brought to the attention of 
Home Economics workers, and various plans for making such liter- 
ature more available were proposed. 

At the morning session, June 29, Professor Henry C. Wright, who 
presided, introduced Professor William Morse Cole, who presented 
a paper on Scientific Accounting as Apphed to Institutions, which was 
of great value and interest. Professor Cole outlined a rational system 



igii] The Lake Placid Meeting 407 

for institution accounting and clearly demonstrated that such a sys- 
tem was essential to good management. Mr. Dewey followed Pro- 
fessor Cole, and gave a most interesting account of the business 
management of the Lake Placid Club; illustrated with a series of 
graphic charts. The evening session, at which Dr. C. F. Langworthy 
presided, was opened with a discussion of the papers presented in 
the morning session by Professor Cole and Mr. Dewey. Miss Emily 
W. Dinwiddie gave an account, illustrated by lantern slides, of the 
Sanitary Inspection of Tenements, which was based on extended 
experience in such work in New York and elsewhere. A paper for- 
warded by Mrs. R. M. Bradley on Market Inspection Work in Boston 
Carried on by the Women's Municipal League was read by Miss 
Katharine A. Fisher. Miss Helen H. Snow of the Curtis Publishing 
Company follov/ed with a paper on Welfare Work in Industrial 
Organizations, which was interesting and valuable. 

Miss Adelaide Nutting, who presided at the morning session, June 
30, introduced Mr. Royal R. Keely, who discussed Principles of Scien- 
tific Managem^ent AppUed to Institutions. Mr. Keely is associated 
with IVIr. F. W. Taylor in his scientific management work, and pre- 
sented material not only interesting in itself but of great value for 
its suggestiveness. Miss Sarah L. Arnold presented a paper on Essen- 
tial Training for Institution Management, and IMiss Martha Van 
Rensselaer one on Rural Sanitary Conditions and Inspection. 

A business meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
closed the morning session, at which a letter of greeting from the pres- 
ident of the Association, Miss Isabel Bevier, was read, and plans were 
presented which have been formulated for the Graduate School of 
Hom.e Economics by the committee having the matter in charge, of 
which Mrs. Alice P. Norton is chairman. The Graduate School will 
be held at Lansing, Mich., in the summer of 191 2, coincident with the 
Graduate School of Agriculture. 

The chairman. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, read a report of the Execu- 
tive Committee outUning proposed changes in the Constitution and 
By-Laws of the Association which will be presented for voting at the 
next winter meeting of the American Home Economics Association. 
This meeting is to be held in Washington, D. C, December-January, 
1911-12, the Association meeting as one of the afiiliated meetings of 
the Arrerican Association for the Advancement of Science. The 
report of the Committee on Nomenclature was presented and adopted. 
A committee consisting of Mrs. Melvil Dewey, chairman, Miss 



4o8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Adelaide Nutting, Miss Mary Urie Watson, Miss Martha Van 
Rensselaer, and Mr. Melvil Dewey, was appointed to frame resolu- 
tions expressing the feeling of the Conference at the death of Mrs. 
Richards. The resolutions presented later were as follows: 

The institution economics section of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion records its profound sense of loss in the death of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, who 
was pioneer, leader and inspirer in a vitally important work which has developed 
in the past twelve years a hundred fold in the numbers actively teaching and dis- 
seminating her ideals of home and family life which she termed euthenics, or the 
new science of right living. 

As representing many institutions we realize that the influence of her work for 
many years to come will have great practical value in securing greater efficiency 
of administration. 

Equally with our professional loss do we feel that there has left us a personal 
friend who always gave generously of her best to every one who sought her sym- 
pathy and counsel. 

The evening session was a business meeting of the Administration 
Section of the American Home Economics Association, with Dr. C. 
F. Langworthy in the chair. The following recommendations from 
the Executive Committee were presented: 

" (i) To recommend to the Executive Committee of the American 
Home Economics Association that the name of the Administration 
Section be changed to 'Institution Economics Section,' and that this 
precede the name 'American Home Economics Association,' on all 
printed matter. 

"(2) To insert the words "and Institution" in the title of the 
Journal, to read "Journal of Home and Institution Economics." 

" (3) To recommend that the membership annual fee be changed 
from twenty-iive cents to one dollar. 

"(4) Recommended that members attending the Conference be 
given opportunity to contribute one dollar or more toward defraying 
the expenses of printing the Proceedings." 

All of these motions were carried. 

The following officers were elected: Mrs. Melvil Dewey, honorary 
chairman, Miss Adelaide Nutting, chairman. Miss Martha Van Rens- 
selaer, secretary and treasurer. A recommendation was adopted to 
the effect that the other members of the Executive Committee of the 
section be appointed by the chair, and that committees already in 
existence be continued with power to add to their number. 

A committee consisting of Professor Henry C. Wright, Miss Mac- 
Millan, and Mrs. Mary H. Moran, appointed for the purpose, pre- 



1911] The San Francisco Meeting 409 

sented resolutions expressing the appreciation of the Conference for 
the hospitalities and courtesies extended by the trustees of the Lake 
Placid Club. 

The business meeting was followed by a discussion of a number of 
topics which had been presented at previous meeting. 

Efficiency in institutional service was suggested as a special sub- 
ject for next year. 

Drives, excursions, and other opportunities offered for enjoying Lake 
Placid and its beautiful surroundings were a feature of the Conference 
always welcomed by those whose good fortune it is to attend these 
gatherings. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

EDUCATION SECTION MEETING 

With National Education Association, San Francisco, 
July 11-13, 1911. 

Tuesday, July 11, 2.30 P.M. 

The Home Economics Movement. Miss Isabel Bevier, Professor 
of Household Science, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

Addresses: — In Memoriam — Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Late Presi- 
dent of the Lake Placid Conferences on Home Economics and of the 
American Home Economics Association. Speakers from various 
organizations. 

Report from committee on Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fimd. 

Tuesday, July 11, 6 P.M. 

Informal dinner at Techau Tavern, of delegates and friends, with 
reports from the field. 

Wednesday, July 12, 2.30 P.M. 

The College Curriculum in Home Economics. Dr. A. C. True, 
Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. 



4IO The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

A Four-inch Lesson in Health and Economy. Miss S. Maria 
Elliott, Simmons College, Boston. 

Round Table: The Teaching of Home Economics, Miss Ednah 
A. Rich, State Normal School, Santa Barbara, Cal. ; Miss Sarah M. 
Hummel, University of Washington; Miss Ellen M. Bartlett, Super- 
visor of Domestic Science^ San Francisco; Miss May Secrest, 
California Polytechnic School, San Luis Obispo; Mrs. Lulie Robbins, 
Director of Neighborhood Work, Speyer School, Teachers College, 
Columbia University; Miss Isabel Moore, Girls High School, San 
Francisco; and others. 

Thursday, July ij, 2.J0 P.M. 

Nuts and Fruits as Food. Professor M. E. Jaffa, University of 
Cahfornia. 

The AppHcation of Science to the Housekeeper's Daily Problems. 
Miss Ellen A. Huntington, Agricultural College of Utah, Logan, Utah. 

Business Session: Report of committee on Graduate School of Home 
Economics. Discussion of the work of the Association; the Journal; 
relation of local associations to American association, etc. 

A report of these meetings will appear in a subsequent issue of the 
Journal. 



EDITORIALS. 

In the present number of the Journal the editor has made an earn- 
est effort to gather together a record of the main events that make 

- „. , , up the history of the Home Economics movement 

A History of . , . r. , , , , , 

,, TT in this country, bome three hundred letters have 

the Home , ..... 

T, . been sent out beiaring inqmnes and requests for 

Economics . j • i , , , i- , 

,, ^ assistance, and without the many helpful replies 

Movement. , , , . , , . . , 

that have been received this account, imperfect as 

it is, could not have been written. It is to be regretted that many 

whose testimony or point of view would have been equally valuable 

could not be reached at this season of the year. There are gaps in 

this history, and there are doubtless many errors, but it will at least 

form a basis for criticism and additions, and these it is hoped will be 

freely offered by our readers. Only so can a reUable history of this 

interesting educational movement be brought together and it should 

be done while those who saw its more important beginnings are still 

active workers. 

At the summer meeting of the Administration Section at Lake Pla- 
cid in July some seventy-five enthusiastic members took part but it 
was noted that only ten or twelve of this number belonged to the "old 
guard." The great majority were of the new generation who must 
carry on the work and build on the foundations already laid. With- 
out a sense of its historical background, a full knowledge of the sources 
of its present power, no movement can succeed without great waste 
of force. It is hoped that this number of our Journal may present 
to our younger readers in whom the hope of the future Ues, some mate- 
rial for this valuable perspective and that it may help to give their 
work that sense of proportion which characterizes a broad and pro- 
gressive movement as distinguished from a number of sporadic efforts. 

And may the counsels of that noble and tireless worker whose nam.e 
we now unite to honor prevail in all future work for the upbuilding of 
the home. 



411 



412 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

Subscriptions for the Journal will be started with any month de- 
sired by the subscriber, but the editors strongly advise beginning with 

January of each year or ordering back numbers 
Subscriptions to that date. 

and Back Copies of the issues of February and April, 1909, 

Numbers. and of February, 1910, will be furnished to Kbra- 

ries only, in order to complete files, as our stock 
of these issues is very low. We repeat our offer to buy copies at 40 
cents each payable in credit on subscription or in cash. 

An unexpectedly large demand for our Housekeepers' Number 
(April, 191 1) has exhausted our supply of this number as well. We 
shall be glad to purchase copies at 40 cents each. 

SELECTIONS FROM MRS. RICHARDS' PUBLISHED 

WORKS.i 

Conservation by Sanitation. 

The endeavor of medicine to adapt itself to modern conditions has 
been more noteworthy than the efforts of either law or theology. Its 
high moral code of disinterested service to all has kept the ideals of 
medicine in touch with progress. 

The mechanical basis of modern life must come to the aid of moral 
and personal influence. It is not enough to tell men to do the right 
thing, they must be fenced in from the wrong thing. For all these 
reasons it would seem that the Civic or Public Service Engineer must 
be the emerging leader in community welfare. 

Probably not more than twenty-five per cent in any community 
are doing a full day's work such as they would be capable of doing if 
they were in perfect health. 

Sewers are built for draining away used water. Flues are just as 
important to serve as sewers for used air. 

Household Arts and Sciences in the Elementary Schools. 

Home Economics stands for : (i) The ideal home life for today unham- 
pered by the traditions of the past; (2) the utilization of all the re- 

*From a pamphlet presented to those who attended the annual meeting of the 
Association of the Women of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, January 7, 
191 1, at which Mrs. Richards was presented with $1000 as a research fund. 



igii] Selections from Mrs. Rkhards' Works 413 

sources of modern science to improve the home life; (3) the freedom 
of the home from the dominance of commercial interests and their 
due subordination to ideals; and (4) the simplicity in material sur- 
roundings which will most free the spirit for the more important and 
permanent interests of the home and of society. 

The watchword of the future is the welfare and security of the child. 

Why Women are to Blame for the High Prices. 

To regulate the cost of living to one's income requires two things: 
An ethical standard which enables one to resist temptation, and a 
power of control over expenses only to be had by a system of accounts. 

Of all the "combines" which tend to raise the cost of living the 
combine of social opinion is most potent. 

If the trusts have caused the late high prices it is because the Amer- 
ican housewife has allowed herself to be bamboozled, browbeaten, 
enticed, hoodwinked, and flattered into buying unnecessary things, 
and imnecessary costly things — because she was ignorant of relative 
values. 

From the tramp who refuses to saw wood for a meal to the house- 
wife who declines to earn her keep by a study of household accounts 
personal exertion has become distasteful. 

If America is to stand a successful republic its women must cope 
with the family budget and secure good value for the money they 
spend. 

Euthenics. 

You must have the will power, for the sake of your child, to bring 
to his service all that has been discovered for the promotion of human 
efl5ciency, so that he may have the habit, the technique. 

If the swarms of dwellers in the busy hives of industry have no sense 
of their humanity, if they do not use the human power of looking ahead, 
that power which differentiates man from animals, what better are 
they than animals? 

Let the furrows be plowed deeply enough while the brain cells are 
plastic, then human energies will result in efficiency, and the line of 
kast resistance will be the right hne. 

The community cannot rise much above the level of the individual 
home, and the home rises only by the pull of the community regula- 
tions, or by the initiative of a few especially far-sighted individuals. 



FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING OF 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION, 

WASHINGTON, D. C, DECEMBER 27-30, 1911. 

The fourth annual meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association will be held at Washington, D. C, during '"'Convocation 
Week" of the American Association for the Advancement of Science 
and afl&liated societies, December 27-30,1911. The invitation to meet 
in Washington came to our Association from the Science Association 
and also from the recently organized Home Economics Association of 
Washington, D. C. Inasmuch as the summer meeting of 191 1 was 
held in the Far West, it seemed to the Executive Committee advisable 
to hold the annual meeting in the East. Arrangements for the con- 
vention are already under way. The President of the Association has 
appointed the following committees: Committee on Program, Prof. 
Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111., Chairman; Local Com- 
mittee of Arrangements, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, Chairman, Miss Emma S. Jacobs, 
Supervisor of Domestic Science, Washington, and Miss Alice Seller, 
President of Washington Home Economics Association. Suggestions 
regarding the program should be sent at once to Miss Marlatt. In 
addition to the program of papers and addresses, certain matters of 
business will come up at this meeting, election of officers, reports of 
committees, and certain amendments to the constitution and by-laws. 

Notice is hereby given of the following officers to be chosen: A presi- 
dent, three vice-presidents, a secretary-treasurer (or, in the event of 
the approval by the annual meeting of a proposed change in the con- 
stitution, a secretary and a treasurer) all for one year, one member of 
the council for fom- years to fill the vacancy caused by the death of 
Mrs. Richards, five members of the council for five years each, and one 
member of the permanent committee on nominations for five years. 
The chairman of the present committee on nominations is Professor 
Henry C. Sherman, Columbia University, to whom suggestions may be 
sent not later than December 15. 

Amendments to the constitution and by-laws have been properly 
proposed, separating the offices of secretary and treasurer in the Associa- 
tion; providing for the organization of local affiliated associations and 
sections of the American Association; and changing the fees of the 
American Association; action on which will be taken at the fourth 
annual meeting in Washington. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 

August 23, iQii. Secretary. 

414 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The Home Economics work at the New York State College of Agriculture of 
Cornell University embraces a four-year college course, and extension teaching. 
The four-year course in Home Economics demands the 
Home Economics at same entrance requirements as other courses at the uni- 
Comell University, versity. The first two years of the course follow the work 
outlined for all students in the college of agriculture with 
the addition of some courses not required in the regular schedule. The last two 
years permit specialization in some one or more of the branches included under the 
term Home Economics. 

The freshman year requires English 8 hours- botany 6 hours; general biology 
6 hours; introductory inorganic chemistry, qualitative and quantitative analysis 
II hours; and drawing 4 hours. The sophomore year requires organic and agri- 
cultural chemistry 10 hours; physics 8 hours; physiology 3 hours; and bacteriology 
3 hours. In this year two coiu^ses in Home Economics are introduced, one of 8 
hours on foods, and a second of 2 hours in House Sanitation. 

The junior year requires political science 6 hours; applied bacteriology or plant 
physiology 3 hours; Home Economics, dietetics 8 hours; house planning and house 
decoration 6 hours; and woman and the family 3 hours. The senior year requires 
household management 4 hovurs; special problems 6 hours; and seminar i hour. In 
the junior and senior years opportimity is given for electing such studies as students 
may wish to speciaUze in. It is expected in these electives that those preparing 
to teach \\ill elect some work from the department of psychology and pedagogy. 

Opportunity is given for cooperation with the courses in plant physiology and 
bacteriology and for specialization in canning and baking with the horticultural 
department for work on fruits and vegetables, and with the medical college for phys- 
iological chemistry and special work for dietitians. House planning, decorating, 
and furnishing is made a prominent feature of the course in charge of a graduate 
of the college of architecture who has specialized in domestic architecture. 

The course as planned is intended to prepare these students for home-making, 
teaching, dietary work, institution management, business positions in connection 
with food, shelter, and clothing, and expert care of children. 

The Legislature of 1910 made an appropriation of $154,000 for the Home Econo- 
mics building. The plans embrace domestic science and domestic art laboratories, 
necessary class rooms, offices, a library, an assembly room, a cafetaria to be used as 
an educational feature and for practice in feeding large numbers, a bakery, and a 
small cannery. 

The extension teaching covers (a) The farmers' wives' reading course; (b) the 
Cornell study clubs; (c) the home-makers' conference, one week; and (d) winter 
course, three months. The farmers' wives' reading course has a membership of 
about 17,000 farmers' wives of New York State. The work is conducted through 

415 



4i6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

printed bulletins and correspondence. The Cornell study clubs are organized in 
rural communities for the study of farm home problems. The bulletins forma 
basis for the program of study. Reports are sent to the college of the work done, 
and the clubs are visited by the teaching staff of the college of agriculture, at which 
time lectures and conferences are held. 

The home-makers' conference holds its annual meeting at the college during Farm- 
ers' Week. It is to be officered each year by members of the winter course in Home 
Economics. The ^^anter course students assist the teaching stafif of the department 
in arranging for this conference. There is a program of lectures and exhibitions 
on home subjects. The membership is made up of winter course students and all 
women interested in home betterment. The winter course students thus keep in 
touch with the college after they have left. 

The three months winter course at the college embraces lectures on nutrition, 
sanitation, household management, and house planning and furnishing, together 
with laboratory work in cooking and sewing. There are no college entrance 
requirements for this course, neither is university credit given. It is in no sense a 
professional course, but it aims to prepare its students to become better housekeepers. 

The Household Arts Club was organized by the seniors of the Home Economics 
department on February 24, 191 1. The general purpose is to further, as far as pos- 
sible, the work that the American Home Economics Asso- 
University of elation endorses. Only students having completed a 

Nebraska. certain niunber of courses with the required scholarship 

are eligible. The meetings, held fortnightly, consist of 
discussions of subjects of general and specific interest, often directed by instructors 
engaged in the various phases of the work. These meetings also afford an oppor- 
tunity for Home Economics students to meet in a social way. 

In Salt Lake City, April 8, 1911, a Utah Branch was organized with the follow- 
ing officers: Ellen A. Huntington, Agricultural College of Utah, Logan, chairman; 
Althea Wheeler, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, vice- 
Utah Branch of the chairman; Harriett L. Harris, Brigham Young University, 
Home Economics Provo, secretary and treasurer; and Mrs. Helen U. Root, Uni- 
Association. versity of Utah, Amy Lyman, L. D. S. College, Mrs. Rhoda 

B. Cook, Agricultural College, and A. C. Nelson, State 
Superintendent of Public Schools, as the executive committee. 

Committees were appointed to investigate school lunches, and to draw up uniform 
courses of study in domestic science and domestic art for the seventh and eighth 
grades. 

The next regular meeting will be held at the time and pi ce of the State Teachers 
Association, which will probably be the Friday and Saturday following Thanks- 
giving. 



igii] News from the Field 4x7 

This body held its first convention on April 13 and 14 at Bellingham, Wash., 
with a membership of thirty-four. 

One of the aims of the association is to raise the standard 
The Washington of the work in the State, where it is new and in a very unde- 
State Branch of the veloped condition. Important committees were appointed. 
American Home One will aim to unify the courses in the high schools and 
Economics Asso- grades by outUning courses which it is hoped the State 
elation. Board of Education will adopt. Another is ready to give 

information concerning the best equipment for new schools, 
especially country schools. Still another is working to raise the qualifications 
for teachers employed. 

Mrs. Ellen P. Dabney is president and Miss Grace K. McKibben, secretary- 
treasurer. 

This body was organized May 13. The following officers were elected: Presi- 
dent, Miss Grace Fuller, Director Domestic Science, Ypsilanti Normal School; 
vice-presidents Miss Agnes Hunt, professor of domes- 
Michigan Home Eco- tic science, Michigan Agricultural College, and Mrs. C. Q. 
aomlcs Association. Murphy, advertising director Joxirnal of Home Econom- 
ics, Grand Rapids; secretary-treasurer, Miss Lenna F. 
Cooper, dietitian and director of domestic science, Battle Creek Sanitarium; 
and national councilor, Miss Maude Gilchrist, Michigan Agricultural College. 

The constitution states some of the specific objects of the association (as study 
of household problems, the standardization of Home Economics courses, etc.) 
ind provides for membership of all those interested in the work, either professionally 
or practically. The annual fee is fixed at fifty cents. 

As a step in a movement to perpetuate the name of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, 
prominent clubwomen of Scranton are to form a branch of the American Association 

of Home Economics. This was decided at a memorial ser- 
Scranton, Pa. vice held May 9 in the Young Women's Christian Associa- 

Branch of Home tion auditorium. 

Economics Asso- The memorial exercise was arranged by a committee 

ciatlon. headed by Miss Lida Penfield and among the speakers 

were Charles Welsh, principal of the domestic course of 
the International Correspondence Schools; Mrs. Ronald P. Gleason, president 
of the women's club; Miss Gladys Jones, and Miss Gwendolyn Stewart. 

Miss Mary L. Canfield, supervisor of domestic science, reports the beginning 
of an experiment in the change of hours for evening classes to the period imme- 
diately after the afternoon session. This change has been 
Domestic Science made for the convenience of the mothers of young children 
In Newark. who can at that hour leave them in the care of older broth- 

ers and sisters. The movement was started by the Home 
Economics Committee but the Board of Education has now adopted it for a four 
month's trial. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Domestic Art in Woman's Education. Anna M. Cooley. Charles Scribner's 

Sons, New York. 191 1. Pp. 274. 

In this most timely book there is presented a full and detailed discussion of the 
field of domestic art, its relation to general education, the problems involved in 
presenting it, the study necessary in planning a lesson or series of lessons, economic 
phases of the subject, and how to keep in touch with progress in domestic art. 

Part II deals with the planning of courses for elementary schools. Part III for 
secondary schools, and Part IV for higher institutions. There are very full and 
suggestive outlines of courses for each kind of school. The bibliography appended 
to each chapter is excellent, and there is also a selected bibhography as an appendix. 
The book lacks an index, which would seem to be inexcusable, none the less it is 
one of the most valuable books of the season. 

Educational Problems. G. Stanley Hall. Two volumes. D. Appleton and 

Company, New York. 191 1. $7.50. 

This contains chapters on Industrial Education, The Budding Girl, and Special 
Child Welfare Agencies Outside the School, of interest in Home Economics. 

L'Education de la Jeune Fille Contemporaine. Specialement de la Jeone 
Fille du Monde. E. M. Rossel. 42 Rue de la Madelaine, Br\ixelles. V. 
Mirquet. Pp. 298. 

The chapters of this book treat the different aspects of the education of girls, 
including household arts education. It includes in its appendix outlines of instruc- 
tion in household arts as well as in other subjects. It will be useful to those in 
charge of Home Economics courses, as a statement based on European conditions. 

Food and the Principles of Dietetics. R. Hutchison. New York: William 
Wood and Company. 1911. Third edition. Pp. xx, 615, pis. 3, figs. 32. 
The material in this volume was first brought together in the form of a course of 
lectures delivered to students at the London Hospital. As the volume is a compre- 
hensive handbook of food and dietetics it has attracted a wide circle of readers 
who have found it valuable not only for the information it contains but also for 
the numerous references to original sources of information. 

In this, the third edition, the author states that the text has been thoroughly 
revised and that the chapters dealing with diet in disease have been considerably 
enlarged, while a new chapter has been added on certain dietetic cures and systems. 
In this chapter such questions as vegetarian and lacto-vegctarian diet, purin-free 
diet, exclusive proteid diet, and sour-milk treatment are discussed. The author's 
summary, which carefully weighs the facts in the case, is in marked contrast to 
statements on these subjects which are so often found in print, and the chapter as 

418 



igii] Books and Literature 419 

& whole furnishes another illustration of the need for calm and unbiased judgment 
based upon a full understanding of facts before reaching conclusions. 

The chapter on artificial and predigested foods and artificial feeding is also of 
special interest, as it summarizes data regarding proprietary articles and commercial 
preparations. 

Cookery Book. Mrs. H. Maclurcan. Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane. 
George Robertson and Company. 1908. Pp. 482, 8th Ed., rev. and enl. 

A large number of recipes are included in this volume for the preparation of meats, 
fish, vegetables, game, and other foods. Many menus are also given including 
menus for twenty-one economical dinners. A number of recipes are given for the 
preparation of food materials unknown or very rare in the United States, such as 
tropical pawpaws. Incidentally, the volume contains information regarding Aus- 
tralian food materials and food customs. 

Proceedings of the American Association of Medical Milk Commissions. 

Ptoc. Amer. Assoc. Med. Milk Com., 4, 1910. Pp. 266, pi. i. 

This volume contains the proceedings of the convention held at St. Louis, June 
6, 1910, annual reports, papers presented, and similar material, together with a 
manual of working methods and standards. The papers include the following; 
The Production of Certified Milk, by S. Francisco; The Production of Good Milk 
for the Small City, by E. G. Hastings; Medical MiUc Charities, by H. L. Coit; 
The Bacterial Content of Milk from Cows Continuously Stabled, by W. D. Frost; 
The History, Development, and Statistics of Milk Charities in the United States, 
by J. W. Kerr; Bacterial MultipUcation in Milk, F. O. Tonney; Medical Milk Com- 
missions and Bovine Tuberculosis, by E. C. Schroeder; Some Essentials for the Pro- 
duction of Clean Milk, by W. A. Stocking, Jr.; and Some Observations on the Milk 
Situation in Europe, by H. L. Coit. 

Primer of Sanitation, Being a Simple Work on Disease Germs and How 
to Fight Them. John W. Ritchie, Professor of Biology, College of WiUiam 
and Mary, Virginia. World Book Company, New York. 1910. Pp. 200. 

Appreciating the need of adequate instruction in the methods of preventive medi- 
cine and of public hygiene, and beUeving that the most effective way of reaching 
the present generation of Americans is through their children, the author has at- 
tempted to write in a simple form an elementary text book dealing with germ dis- 
eases and their prevention. 

The first chapter is given to the establishment of the importance of such a study, 
after which the author considers in the following twenty-five chapters the cells of 
the body, disease germs and how they get into the body, the struggle between the 
body and disease, diphtheria, pneumonia, influenza, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, 
malarial and yellow fever, and small-pox. Causes, cures, treatment and preven- 
tion of these are discussed at some length. 

The author has evidently attempted to eliminate certain objectionable features 
commonly found in text books of this type, by placing emphasis upon public health 
and citizenship rather than upon the anatomical and physiological aspects. For 
this purpose, the illustrations used differ somewhat from those of the more formal 



420 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

and conventional type. While they have some points in their favor, they are in 
many cases imaginary, impossible, and lacking in movement — elements quickly 
noticed and appreciated by children. 

In the hands of a wise, tactful, sjonpathetic teacher, who is able to select parts 
suited to young minds, and to give the selected material to them in a simple form 
to be understood and enjoyed, such a book might prove helpful and suggestive to 
teachers of even the lowest grades. As a text in the hands of children below the 
sixth grade, it is difficult to see its possible value. Thomas C. Wood. 

Makers of Our Clothes. A Case for Trade Boards. Being the Results of a 
Year's Investigation into the Work of Women in London in the Tailoring, 
Dressmaking, and Underclothing Trades, Mrs. Carl Meyer and Clementine 
Black. London: Duckworth and Company, Henrietta Street, Covent Garden. 

1909. Pp. 304. 

This is a book which should be in the library of domestic art teachers. It gives 
exact information as to conditions in the clothing trades in London, and much of 
its information will hold true for American conditions. 

Textiles for Commercial, Industrial, Evening, and Domestic Art Schools. 
William H. Dooley. D. C. Heath and Company, New York, Boston, Chicago. 

1910. Pp. 221, illus. 28. Price, $1.00. 

This is a simple, non-technical treatment of the subject adapted for those engaged 
in the wholesale and retail dry goods, wool, cotton and dress making trades. A very 
general description is given of the various fibers and their process of manufacture 
into cloth. Chapters also deal with the weaving, dyeing, and finishing processes. 
Descriptions and trade names of many fabrics of wool, linen, cotton are given, and 
there is a short appendix of simple tests for purity and strength. The illustrations 
are largely factory interiors. There is a full table of contents, but no index, which 
lessens the value of the book as a means of ready reference. 

Textiles. A. F. Barker and other experts. D. Van Nostrand Company, New 
York. 1910. Pp. 369, illus. 86. Price, $2.00. 

This is a very comprehensive work covering the various phases of the textile 
industry. It contains brief histories of the various industries, with detailed de- 
scriptions of the fibers, preparation, spinning, dyeing, weaving, and finishing into 
fabrics. The chapters on mercerizing, dyeing, and carpet weaving, while brief, 
are very clear. The discussion of dyeing cannot, however, be used to replace 
Mathew's Laboratory Manual of Dyeing and Textile Chemistry. The chapter on 
designing is good in that it is not too technical for the general reader. 

The value of the book is enhanced by numerous tables showing the classification 
of grades and varieties of raw materials, and the comparative production and con- 
sumption by countries. The data are largely from the English industries, but 
the United States figures largely in the statistics. 

The photographs and diagrams are exceedingly valuable, and there is an index. 

While treating the same subject as Mr. Dooley's the two books are not in any 
way identical, except in the broad outlines. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Ill DECEMBER, 1911 Xo. 5 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1911. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. .\bel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 
Extension, Miss .Anna Barrows, 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 
Food ant) Nutrition, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of .\gricul- 

ture, Washington, D. C. 
Texti es ANT) Clothing, Miss .Abby L. Maklatt. University of Wisconsin, 

Madison, Wis. 
The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 
Administration, Mrs. Melvtl Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 
The Family, Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 
ArriLiATED Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, 

Ithaca, X. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

December, igii 

College courses in Home Economics. .\. C. True 421 

.A four-inch lesson in health and economy, S. Maria Elliott 428 

Home Pkonomics from the standpoint of the grade teacher, .Mice P. Norton. . 431 
The application of science to the housekeeper's daily problems. Ellen .\. Hunt- 

ingion 440 

.\n early experiment in the introduction of manual training into the college 

curriculum, C. F. Langworthy 445 

Studies of methods in food preparation: Pastry, Elizabeth Sprague 446 

The preservative action of spices, C. Hoffman and .Alice C. Evans 452 

Strength of Hours. Frances Freeman 460 

E.xperimental work with winter and spring wheat flours, Ida Shilling 461 

.\ co6pcrati\'c kitchen, Blanche McXerne)' 464 

.V quiet factory lunch-room, Ethel R. Peyser 466 

S. score-card for eating-houses 470 

.V letter to food manufacturers 472 

D'-Vvenel's "Evolution of Private Expenditures during Seven Centuries," 

Helen W. .\tw.iter 4-3 

Sanitation and simi.ar work in Manila 480 

Institutions in the United States giving instruction in Home Economics (con- 
cluded), Marie T. Spcthmann 483 

Bibliograjihy of Home liconomics literature 489 

-A rearing cojrse ii domestic scien.e 493 

Program of the fourth annual meeting of the .Association 495 

Report of the .San Francisco meeting, Helen Louise Johnson 497 

Second annual meeting of .\merican Association for Study and Prevention of 

Infant Mortality 500 

Editorials 502 

.Additions and corrections to the October Journal 507 

News fr,;m the field 508 

Books and literature 513 

Inde.x to X'olume 3 523 



THE 

JournaU/Home Economics 

Vol. III. DECEMBER, 191 1 No. 5 

COLLEGE COURSES IN HOME ECONOMICS.^ 

Dr. a. C. True. 
Director, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Our opinion of the proper scope and purpose of college courses in 
Home Economics will be materially affected by what we consider to 
be the true function of the college. On this point educators are as 
yet far from agreement. It is true that we are now in the midst of a 
movement to standardize the college as regards its requirements for 
both entrance and graduation. For this purpose an effort is being 
made to fix the pedagogical value of different subjects and courses 
and to express this in "units" or "credits." Obviously the exact 
determination of pedagogical values is very difficult. The results of 
educational standardization must therefore be considered as thus far 
comparatively crude and unsatisfactory. There is, however, little 
doubt that much good will result from the attempt to define educational 
standards. We shall at least have some definite points around which 
the discussion of educational values may be focused. 

Meanwhile, discussion of the college is covering a wide range. At 
one extreme are those who hold that the college should devote itself 
to the promotion of intellectual activity in a broad and liberal way but 
without reference to the fife work which Hes before the student after 
graduation. Their argument runs somewhat as follows: After the 
rigid and narrow discipline of the secondary school, it is well that the 
youthful mind should survey the field of human knowledge, learn in a 

'Presented at the San Francisco Meeting of the Education Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, July, 1911. 

421 



422 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

general way the course of development of thought and institutions 
through the ages, reflect upon his own nature and destiny, and seek 
to find himself in the world of nature and men. This is the best prep- 
aration youth in the later stages of adolescence can have for the more 
exact and practical studies which after-college days will introduce him 
to business or professional life and definitely prepare him for his voca- 
tion. And at the same time it will fit him to fill a large place in the 
social Hfe of his times and to have much of mental satisfaction in both 
work and recreation. 

At the other extreme are those who urge that amid the rapidly 
expanding limits of every branch of human knowledge and activity 
and the ever increasing exactions of vocational life, there is now no 
room for studies without definite aim and purpose. If the college has 
any place at all in our modern educational system, they say, it is to 
give training in those branches which are fundamental to the more 
practical knowledge required in the vocations, and this should be com- 
bined with studies directly relating to the vocations. The modern 
man will best get strength and breadth of intellectual power from the 
study and practice of the compHcated and absorbing vocations for 
which higher education should fit him. 

The truth is probably to be found between these two extremes and 
it is on this middle ground that the American college is more and more 
inclined to locate itself. Believing that man shall not live by bread 
alone, it will feed the youth on a more generous diet. Without neglect- 
ing the requirements for vocational success, it will train men with 
reference to their social activities and the refined pleasures of life. The 
broad development of body, mind, and spirit, and the specialization 
of function to meet the requirements of modern Hfe are to be combined 
in the college course of the future. 

We are apparently passing out of an era in which the scheme of 
free electives has been tried in a revolt against the narrow and rigid 
curriculum of the old college. The effort now is to secure appropri- 
ate groupings of studies so that the real tastes and needs of individuals 
may be met without sacrificing either a proper balancing of cultural 
and vocational requirements or proper standards for the conferring 
of degrees. 

The subjects taught in colleges have been greatly multiplied and yet 
the end of this movement has not been reached. The methods of 
presentation of various subjects have been greatly modified but there 
is yet room for much improvement. The effort to secure a proper 



19 1 1] College Courses in Home Economics 423 

grade of work in the college has been productive of great good and 
should be continued. The fear of lowering the intellectual strength 
of the curriculum or giving the lazy student the aid and comfort of 
"soft" courses has, however, led the college teacher to insist in some 
respects too strongly that all courses should have a relatively high 
pedagogical value. The natural desire of the college teacher to train 
students to be experts in his subject has often led to the ignoring of 
the just demands of those students pursuing a subject for a more 
general purpose. Certain subjects, e.g., music and the fine arts, have 
been unjustly kept out of college courses because it was held to be too 
difficult to frame proper college courses in them or it was feared that 
they would be studied without serious purpose. 

It is therefore necessary to plead for a broader study of the college 
curriculum -uith reference to actual requirements of students between 
the ages of eighteen and twenty-two years. With a careful weigh- 
ing and grouping of studies, it wall be possible to maintain a sufficiently 
high total of intellectual accomplishment for the course as a whole and 
yet permit the student to take certain courses for general information, 
or to gratify aesthetic or other tastes. We are beginning to see that 
a suitable time given to physical training and instruction in personal 
hygiene is not beneath the dignity of the college. In like manner 
training which will contribute to social amenities and personal accom- 
plishments will ultimately be provided for. 

Broadly speaking, college courses for women have followed too 
closely the lines laid down in those for men or have been drawn on the 
presumption that college women as a rule intended to pursue profes- 
sional careers. The r61e of woman in the home and society, or as a 
dispenser of hospitality and a leader in the refined pleasures of life, 
has been too much neglected by the colleges of the better class. 

These general considerations have a vital bearing on the problem 
of college courses in Home Economics. To them must be added con- 
siderations, also of a somewhat general character, which relate more 
directly to the subject of Home Economics itself. 

To gain its rightful place in the modern educational system, Home 
Economics must be made a definite, that is a limited, subject, the scope 
and purpose of which can be fairly differentiated. As long as Home 
Economics is indefinitely considered as covering most if not all the 
work of a w^oman's department in a college or is broadly and loosely 
described as the science and art of right living, it will be difficult to 
make people understand why it should have any separate existence. 



424 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The fact that Home Economics derives its materials from a variety 
of arts and sciences is no argument against its independent existence. 
The same is true of many complicated educational subjects, e.g., 
medicine, agriculture, and engineering. 

The fact that at present there is much variety of opinion in detail 
as to what should be included in Home Economics need not prevent 
definition of the subject for practical purposes. Under such condi- 
tions it seems best that the standard definition should embrace only 
those subjects which it is generally agreed are included in the term. 
If later on general agreement to include other subjects is reached, the 
definition can be amended to include them. It is such considerations 
which have recently led committees constituted in a somewhat author- 
itative way to agree on a limited definition of Home Economics as a 
basis for further study and development of the subject. This defin- 
ition, as formulated by committees of the American Home Economics 
Association and the Association of American Agricultural Colleges and 
E;iperiment Stations, is as follows: Home Economics, as a distinc- 
tive subject of instruction, includes the economic, sanitary, and aes- 
thetic aspects of food, clothing, and shelter as connected with their 
selection, preparation, and use by the family in the home or by other 
groups of people. 

Having this definition, it will be fortunate if there shall follow a 
general effort to formulate and strengthen courses of instruction and 
hnes of research within these Umits. The production of manuals, 
text-books, laboratory devices, and illustrative material along this 
line, together with the instruction of many students according to this 
program, will do much within a comparatively short time to give Home 
Economics an assured place and standing in the educational institu- 
tions from the university down and to bring legislators, philanthro- 
pists, and the general public to its support. When all this shall have 
been done, there will be time enough to consider the enlarging of the 
borders of the subject. 

It is also very important at this stage of the development of Home 
Economics that it should be defined and explained in simple and homely 
terms. Attempts at the allegorical or transcendental treatment of 
the subject or the development of fanciful systems will only tend to 
convince the learned and unlearned alike that Home Economics is 
after all a fad. 

College courses in Home Economics should be planned with refer- 
ence to the conditions prevailing in the preparatory schools. At pres- 



19 1 1] College Courses in Home Economics 425 

ent relatively few students vaU have had opportunity to study Home 
Economics before coming to college. It is therefore very desirable 
that the student have the opportunity to begin this subject in the col- 
lege. The college course for beginners should take into account the 
relative maturity of the college student and therefore carry her more 
rapidly over the elementary practical work and combine with this 
from the beginning the more scientific elements. At entrance to 
college, credit should be given for Home Economics properly pursued 
in the preparatory school and thus the study of Home Economics in 
the secondary schools will be greatly encouraged. 

Until Home Economics is generally taught in elementary and second- 
ary schools, the colleges will be obliged to meet the needs of those stu- 
dents who desire to begin this subject in the college and at the same 
time provide suitable courses for those prepared in this subject in the 
lower schools. This creates an awkward situation when the number 
of instructors or students is very limited. When a suflicient number of 
students elect Home Economics to make possible the division of the 
class into sections, the problem becomes easier. 

Courses in Home Economics should be offered for college women who 
desire to pursue them as a part of a course of general education and 
to fit themselves to manage homes and meet the general requirements 
of social life. These courses should be planned with reference to the 
actual conditions of home and social life and include both practice 
and theory. Such courses should be allowed to form a part of a 
general bachelor-degree course, that is without requiring the student 
to graduate in Home Economics. 

Besides these more elementary and general courses of Home Eco- 
nomics, the colleges should offer special courses suited to the needs of 
those students whose major interest is in Home Economics and who 
are looking forward to professional careers in this line, as teachers, 
experts, nurses, dietitians in sanatoriums or public institutions, man- 
agers of hotels or of boarding departments of schools, public institu- 
tions, etc. The number and variety of such courses will depend on the 
funds at the disposal of the college for the Home Economics depart- 
ment, the number of instructors, and the consequent specialization of 
their work. Those courses should be first established for which there is 
the greatest demand and the institution with limited funds should 
see^ to give the strongest courses it can in one or two lines rather 
than to spread weakly out over a large field. 

To indicate how Home Economics may be introduced into a college 



426 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



course arranged on the group plan, the following courses have been 
outlined. The number after each subject indicates semester credits, 
the total number of credits for the course being 130. Many other 
combinations of studies could of course be made. The first of these 
illustrative courses lays emphasis on languages, the second on sciences, 
and the third on Home Economics. 



College Courses for Women. 



GROUP I. 

(languages.) 

Course i. 

English 20 

Latin 10 

French or 

German 20 

50^ 

Course 2. 

English lo 

French or 
German 20 



30 



GHOUP II. (history, 

ETC.) 



group iii. 

(mathematics and 

sciences.) 



GROUP IV. (arts.) 



History 10 

Psychology 10 



Mathematics . . 6 

Physiology 4 

Biology 10 

Chemistry 10 

30 



Music or Draw- 
ing *io 

Home 
Economics 20 

30 



History 15 

Economics 5 

Psychology 10 



30 



Mathematics. . . 6 

Physiology 4 

Biology 10 

Chemistry 20 

40 



Music or Draw- 
ing 10 

Home 
Economics 20 

30 



Course 3. 

English 10 

French or 

German 10 



History 10 

Psychology 10 

Education 10 



30 



Mathematics . . 6 
Physiology .... 4 

Biology 10 

Chemistry 10 

30 



Music or 

Drawing 10 

Home 
Economics 40 

50 



* The course in music or drawing might well include the history of music or the 
fine arts, as well as training in the art itself. 

There will always be a variety of opinion in the case of such subjects 
as Home Economics, agriculture, engineering, or medicine, as to what 
should be taught under those heads and what should be left to the 
teachers of the fundamental sciences, such as chemistry, biology, etc. 
The problem is to work out what is desirable in the combination of 
theory and practice in Home Economics and then have the teachers 
of Home Economics give the instruction in the body of knowledge 
assembled under that head. There will be more or less overlapping 
at best, though pains should be taken to keep this down to a desirable 



igii] College Courses in Home Economics 427 

minimum. The chemist, for example, will teach many of the princi- 
ples on which the art of cooking depends, but he will do this from the 
standpoint of the chemist. The teacher of Home Economics must 
develop the whole theory of cooking as directly related to the art and 
present both the theory and the art as a systematic whole. In doing 
this she should take advantage of the previous training of the students 
in the fundamental sciences and lead them to apply whatever scientific 
knowledge they have acquired, but she should not be deprived of the 
opportunity to present the scientific facts and principles underlying the 
practice. The point of view of the teaching and the proper combina- 
tion of knowledge drawn from various sources, with a view to giving 
the student a rational practice, are the important factors in making 
strong courses in such subjects as Home Economics. We do not need 
to fear repetition as long as there is differentiation of purpose and aim 
in the instruction. We do not have enough of such repetition as will 
fasten scientific knowledge in the student's mind and make it usable 
in practical ways. 

Home Economics also has its economic and sociological side and 
this should be developed in the college instruction in this subject. 
There will thus be a combination of facts and principles drawn from 
physical, biological, economic, and sociological sciences as related to 
the business and life of the home which, when properly assembled 
and arranged, will pro\ade ample material for definite and well bal- 
anced college courses in Home Economics. 

Under present conditions, the task of the college teacher of Home 
Economics is a very difficult and compHcated one. By study and 
research she must assemble and enlarge a new body of knowledge and 
give it pedagogical form. She must prepare manuals, text-books, 
apparatus, and illustrative material in this new subject. She must 
fit Home Economics into college curricula which are in a rapidly 
shifting and largely chaotic condition. She must meet the require- 
ments of collegiate standards in the intellectual and scientific strength 
of the Home Economics courses and at the same time overcome the 
narrow and false views of college pedagogics which oppose the intro- 
duction of the practical into college courses. She must meet the grow- 
ing demand of the public that something shall be done to give women 
practical training for their life work, but she must stoutly resist the 
claims of those who would confine Home Economics to the merely 
empirical. At the same time she must tactfully oppose those faddists 
and sentimentalists, who, while honestly claiming to be the friends of 



428 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Home Economics, would really sap its scientific and practical founda- 
tions. 

Besides giving sound and thorough instruction to her college stu- 
dents, she must do a large amount of propaganda work to secure the 
general recognition of Home Economics in the elementary and second- 
ary schools, and all she can of that broader extension work by which 
the multitudes of untrained women in the homes are to be encouraged 
and inspired. 

The college teacher of Home Economics needs, therefore, in unusual 
measure the aid of all intelligent people and particularly of the 
leaders of public opinion and the managers of educational insti- 
tutions. College boards, presidents, and faculties especially should 
give earnest and sympathetic study to the problems involved in the 
development of strong courses in Home Economics and their adjust- 
ment to the compHcated program of the modern college. Careful 
study of this matter will, I believe, constantly enhance the impor- 
tance of Home Economics as a part of a well rounded and adequate 
scheme of college education for women. 

A FOUR-INCH LESSON IN HEALTH AND ECONOMY.^ 

S. Maria Elliott. 
Simmons College. 

Important principles often depend upon facts that can be shown 
by very simple experiments. Knowledge gained through the senses, 
is "knowledge that sticks," and perhaps none is so firmly fixed as 
that gained through the eye. The lessons in bacteriology to be taught 
from a four-inch dish with its thin layer of prepared jelly may be 
presented with almost as much value to the child of five as to the adult 
observer. Emphasis may be put wherever the need is greatest. 

The child of five may expose the prepared "soil" cover and watch 
with absorbing interest the changes that take place. The adult is 
possibly even more interested and impressed. (The older pupil 
should prepare the "soil" and thereby learn the lesson of minute bacte- 
riological cleanliness.) 

1 Read at the San Francisco Meeting of the Education Section of the American 
Home Economics Association, July 14, 191 1. 



igii] A Four-Inch Health Lesson 429 

When spots appear upon the surface of the formerly clear jelly the 
natural question "why?" will suggest answers that are lessons which 
every human being should learn for his own safety and comfort. 
With a little guidance, these conclusions are easily drawn. The open 
dish caught something from the air. This something was invisible. 
It grew; therefore, it must have been alive. There are spots of differ- 
ent shapes and colors. There must be different causes. Around some 
of the spots, changes occur, hollows form, liquid gathers — evidently 
these spots of living matter have power to change the jelly on which 
they were caught. This is a good chance for applied chemistry, as 
well as for bacteriology. It needs only a word to fix the facts that in 
dust there are invisible, H\ang cells that use favorable soU and grow, 
producing changes in this soil, which is their food. The vile odor 
that will be present after some days of growth will prove most effec- 
tively the cause and conditions of putridity and the necessary measure 
of prevention. 

The fundamental biological facts are easily grasped. If the experi- 
ment is always spoken of as a "dust garden," there is no difficulty in 
fixing the fact that these invisible cells in the dust are of plant, not of 
animal origin. 

Let one dish be planted from still air. Note how few cells are 
caught. Why should the clothes worn in churches, halls, and other 
dusty places be so thoroughly cleaned, preferably out-of-doors? Why 
should some time elapse after they are brushed, if in the house, or after 
sweeping, bed-making, or other dust-spreading processes are carried 
on, before true dusting can be effective? The advantage of cleaning 
clothes out-of-doors, or better, the ideal principle of suction for the 
drawing out of all dust and its disposal by burning will be readily 
grasped. 

The relations of Uving matter to light, temperature, and moisture 
can all be taught by placing one dust garden in the dark and one in 
the light, one in a refrigerator and one at the ordinary room tempera- 
ture, or in an especially warm place. 

The importance of fresh air, the healthfulness of sunlight may be 
strongly emphasized. If one garden be planted with spatters of 
saliva or mucus from the nostrils, the lesson can be taught that cough- 
ing and sneezing should be with closed mouth, covered nostrils, or 
averted head. Were such lessons given in all the schools, it is not 
too much to hope that before the end of the twentieth century, Amer- 
ica would lose its shameful name of "a nation of spitters." Before 



430 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

the end of the century, we might hope to eradicate the habit of making 
the mouth a third hand, to hold money, pins, and pencils. 

Hygienic habits in the children will bring universal health condi- 
tions years sooner than statutes and laws. Health is an asset and a 
fundamental factor in economy. Therefore, all health-habits may 
be considered equally important from an economic standpoint. But, 
aside from health, an aim sometimes so far distant or indirectly at- 
tained that it does not furnish a daily incentive to correct hygienic 
teaching, there may be close, direct application to the care and pres- 
ervation of food and clothing. 

The housewife who sweeps her kitchen floor and immediately 
begins to can her fruit, is committing an o5ense against economics, 
as well as bacteriological laws. The closely covered warm milk, the 
tightly wrapped hot bread, the close, tight cheese dish, all encourage 
the quick growth of mold or bacteria and the consequent lessening of 
value or the complete loss of food, with the possible formation of pto- 
maines or poisonous products. The mold and pores on the tightly 
rolled clothes in the laundry basket or the bacteria on the damp dish- 
cloth or mop hung in the dark cupboard will follow the laws of devel- 
opment as surely as the voracious caterpillar will come out from the 
moth's egg. There is a cause for every effect. The youngest student 
may observe the effect and may be led toward the cause, thereby 
learning prevention, which is sanitation. 

All these phenomena underlie the common daily facts of life and 
hving. If once observed, there never again can be the same ignorance 
or carelessness in personal habits and in our relations with our fellows, 
both from the standpoint of prevention of illness with its economic 
waste, and with the preservation of food materials. 

There cannot perhaps be found an experiment so simple in prepa- 
ration, so suggestive in observation, so important in its applications 
as the one we have outlined. 



HOME ECONOMICS FROM THE STANDPOINT OF THE 
GRADE TEACHER.i 

Alice P. Norton. 

University of Chicago. 

In the Cook County (Illinois) Normal School under Colonel Fran- 
cis W. Parker a study of "foods" was carried on with children in the 
grammar grades as far back as 1893. The most common articles of 
food were used, and these were tested as to their composition, the 
amount of water in each, and the number containing starch, albumen, 
fats, and oils being determined. This was a preparatory step leading 
to a study of the kinds and quantity of food necessary to meet the 
daily needs of the individual. The problem presented was to select 
a menu for one day that would furnish the food necessary to repair 
the daily waste. The necessary statements and Atwater's tables 
formed the basis for the work. 

This was a crude beginning, but the interest was sufficient to carry 
the work through with a fair degree of success. The class, working 
together and not as individuals, prepared menus which would meet 
the demands for repair of waste. In addition to the kind and amount 
of food needed, the cost of each article was considered. As a means of 
giving a more definite idea of the quantities necessary, they were mod- 
elled in clay. The relative size of the pat of butter for each meal made, 
for instance, a very distinct impression. To give a more comprehen- 
sive knowledge of the kind and variety of foodstuffs, an e.xcursion was 
taken to the largest grocery store in the city. This opened the way to 
the study of place geography in locating the countries from which 
the various articles had come. 

It may be objected that this must have been too scientific, as it had 
little application to the child's experience, and could have little far- 
reaching effect upon his own choice of food; since the menus were 
constructed from the standpoint of the adult's needs. But in this work 

1 Presented at the St. Louis meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, December 27, 1910. 



432 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

there were three desirable elements. There was good experimental 
work in testing food materials, which suggested the idea that some 
materials are more valuable as food than others. There was a con- 
stant use of mathematics for a definite purpose. There was growth 
in power to handle materials and apparatus, or in muscular control. 
Last of all there was training in responsibility in the maintenance of 
the laboratory to see that all materials were cared for properly and 
that the room and utensils were left in perfect order. 

What the work lacked was the opportunity to prepare the menus, to 
cook and serve them. With this, it v/as agreed, the circle of experience 
needed to gain intellectual, physical, and social control would be com- 
plete, so far as this subject could give it. With a prophetic eye Mr. 
Jackman said confidently: "The time is near when cooking will be 
a part of the curriculum for our elementary schools." 

In 1900, seven years later, an experiment was tried in the Chicago 
Normal School in what Dr. Colin A. Scott calls "self-organized work." 
This is reported in his book. Social Education. 

Here an opportunity was given the children in two third grade 
schools to present a plan for some work they would like to do, stating 
how much time they would need to finish it and how they would accom- 
plish it. They were to work in groups or each by himself for a half 
hour twice a week. 

As a result, of the fourteen groups organized during the year three 
were cooking groups. The first one organized was formed of five 
girls and one boy. They had no equipment, but one girl brought an 
old gas oven, another a heater, and the group interviewed the princi- 
pal to secure his permission to have an attachment made so they could 
use the gas. Notwithstanding they were organized to cook "just to 
eat," they were led of their own will to the study of city departments 
of administration, to experiments to distinguish between butter and 
butterine, to printing their recipes with rubber stamps, to book- 
binding so as to obtain covers for their cook-books, to discussions of 
discipline when the boy failed to bring the materials assigned as his 
portion, to a study of mathematics to determine the cost of a cupful 
or spoonful when the articles were bought by the pound, and to a 
determination of what each child's share of the expense would be when 
the cost of the cupful or spoonful was known. Averaging is not always 
introduced into the third grade, but these children used the process 
correctly and easily after being once shown. 

Another cooking group was composed entirely of boys. They said, 



igii] Home Economics and the Grade Teacher 433 

"We don't want to cook as these girls do. But if anyone should be 
sick in the house, then we should like to be able to cook something." 
They began with beef-tea. They, too, w^ere led into experimenting, 
for they were told that beef-tea should not look gray when it is served 
as that shows that the albumen in the meat has become hardened and 
cannot be digested quickly. At the teacher's suggestion, they beat 
the juice out of some pieces of meat and compared it with the white 
of an egg. 

The self-organized work of these two groups is full of suggestions for 
the grade teacher and the teacher in Home Economics today as to the 
many-sided development cooking may produce. 

In October, 1905, a class of children of seventh grade age who had 
come together from many other elementary schools, was organized 
at the University of Chicago. Only a few of the class had been in the 
university elementary school. Some of the pupils were "over age," 
some were very young. Some showed excellent training in forming 
good habits; others seemed to lack much in habit- training in the right 
direction. What service could cooking render this grade in their 
development? 

The work was so arranged that the class, with no distinction in 
regard to sex, spent ninety minutes in the laboratory the day they 
cooked. This gave time to prepare and cook the article, and have 
time for the equally important lesson, for this class, in washing dishes 
and leaving the room in order. The next lesson for the week was 
scheduled as "cooking science" and lasted one hour. This hour was 
given to an experiment necessary to clinch the point in the preceding 
cooking lesson, or prepare for the one following. Once more each week 
the class went to the cooking laboratory, this time to find the tables 
covered with blotting pads and equipped with ■v\Titing materials. They 
proceeded to write up the week's work in notes or recipes — as well 
as it could be done in thirty minutes. Thus three hours each week 
were given to the solution of a very definite problem. 

One part of the quarter's work was to prepare and serve a luncheon 
to the mothers of the children. This was a great event for this class, 
both from their point of view and that of the teachers. Coming with 
such a variety of school experience they lacked unity and class spirit, 
but this one big piece of work united them as nothing else could have 
done. The excellent opportunities for organization which were pre- 
sented the teacher used to the best advantage in the cooking and serv- 
ing of the limcheon. The boy who was apt to make a disturbance 



434 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

in the kitchen because of his clumsiness was made head waiter. He 
filled this position ■v\dth great dignity, alertness, and careful polite 
attention to details. He permitted no one else to assume the least 
responsibility in showing a belated guest to her seat and handing her 
a napkin. That piece of work was the first one for this boy that could 
be considered above criticism. He had an opportunity to reveal a power 
which his teachers little dreamed that he possessed. They began to 
see a solution of one problem in the class. The other children served 
the luncheon deftly and with a glow of pride. The mothers partook 
of the food with an equal pride in it and in the skill with which it was 
served to them by their children. The committee on dish-washing, or 
the "dirty-dish committee," faithfully performed its duties. 

What ser\ice did the cooking give in solving the problem of helping 
each child, so far as possible, to have control of his powers and use 
them to the best advantage, or to use Dr. Dewey's words^ to see that 
"the children day by day by their own. acti\ities move inevitably 
. toward culmination of themselves?" We may summarize 
the benefits as follows: 

(i) The cooking won their interest and led to their best efforts with- 
out the continual prodding of the teacher. (2) It gave an impetus 
to the idea that there is something worth while inherent in work. 
This idea was carried over to other subjects. (3) It trained in con- 
trol, something which this class much needed. (4) It gave them 
excellent work in construction. The class got together the neces- 
sary materials and out of a barrel and some hay made a fireless cooker, 
in which the delicious boiled ham was prepared for the luncheon. 
(5) A trip to market to buy some of the articles for the luncheon 
opened their eyes to the sources of foodstuffs and the distances from 
which certain articles come. (6) The luncheon developed a class 
spirit and made possible good team work. Truly the cooking was of 
very great service. 

Cooking was also found to aid mathematics. "The training of 
attention and judgment acquired in having to do things with a real 
outcome ahead," to quote Dr. Dewey again, develops an appreciation 
of other work which at first sight does not appear to have "real outcome 
ahead." In order to solve the problems in cooking, certain mathe- 
matical processes have to be mastered. This is a direct help to the 
grade teacher for there is then a real motive for mathematics. She 

^ Child and Curriculum, p. 39. 



igii] Ho7ne Economics and the Grade Teacher 435 

thus in turn gives valuable aid to the cooking and brings her class to a 
higher development in the subject than would be possible otherwise. 
In an article in Elementary School Teacher (vol. \dii) Miss Jessie P. 
Rich describes work in which the grade teacher cooperated with her 
to their mutual advantage. The third grade in their geography 
study had become interested in raisins. The children asked, ''What 
are they?" "Where do they come from?" "How do they grow?" 
"What kind of grapes makes a good raisin?" When most interesting 
experiments had answered some of these questions, the children '^'ished 
to make indi\'idual bunches of raisins. They began with one-fourth 
pound of grapes, and the results of the experiment showed that the 
four ounces of grapes produced one ounce of raisins. This was made 
the basis of the following problems: 

What is the weight of grapes necessary to make one pound of raisins? To make 
one-half pound of raisins? 

WTiat weight of raisins can be made from one pound of grapes? 

If the grapes cost 8 cents per pound, what is the cost of one pound of raisins? 
Why is there a difference between this cost and the cost of one pound of raisins at 
the store? 

The trays in California hold 24 pounds of grapes. How many raisins are made 
from this amount? WTiat is their value? 

This work made necessary a mastery of the use of the scales and the 
table of pounds and ounces, as well as of multiplication. The grade 
teacher's outlines for the period contain the following suggestions: 
"Problems involving addition and subtraction are demanded in cook- 
ing; problems from cooking involve a review of liquid measure and 
simple fractions." "Multiplication is needed in recipes in cooking 
just now." 

Another illustration of the relation between mathematics and cook- 
ing in the third grade was found in the making of grape juice. The 
following data were sent to the grade teacher: A 5-pound basket of 
grapes costs 20 cents. When 8 pounds of grapes were used by sixteen 
children, 16 cups of juice were obtained. The individual recipe was 
1 cup of juice and | cup sugar (costing 6 cents for 2 cups or i poimd) . 
The result was 4^ quarts of canned grape juice. From this data the 
following problems were devised: 

(i) Find the cost per child of the grape juice made. 

(2) Find the cost for all. 

(3) Find the cost per basket. 

(4) Find the amount of grape juice per basket of grapes. 



436 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Later in the course this grade entertained their mothers at luncheon. 
The problems in mathematics were many, including reducing and mul- 
tiplying the recipes used for the cake; the cost of food; lists of pro- 
visions with the cost of each article; and the actual cost of luncheon. 

The raisins made in the fall were kept and used in the cake for this 
luncheon. So the children began with the raw product and followed 
it through the steps of the process to the finished product, an experi- 
ence never to be forgotten. 

There was a strong social value in the luncheon. The grade teach- 
er's notes read as follows: "The children felt their responsibilities, 
responded pretty fully to the unusual stimulus, and steadied them- 
selves constantly in order to carry out successfully their plans. The 
majority of the pupils were conscious of their enlarged social oppor- 
tvmities and were happy to serve their friends both individually and in 
groups." 

Another interesting experiment in which mathematics played a 
part was tried in the fifth grade. The class were making jelly and 
wanted to find out two things : (i) How much sugar is needed, and 
(2) whether the amount of sugar used affected the cost of the jelly. 
The general opinion on the second question was that an increase in 
amount of sugar would result in an increased cost per glass of jelly. 
Miss Snow's article in Elementary School Teacher (vol. viii) gives the 
results of the experiment in nine individual reports. The following 
is one of them: 

In making grape jelly the question came up of how much sugar to use, so we tried 
to find out by experiment. In the tests, each child used a different amount of 
sugar to half a cup of grape juice. I used 6 tablespoonfuls to ^ cup of grape juice 
and boiled it at 220° F. This made neariy one wineglass full of jelly. 

Three-quarter basket grapes cost $0. 15 

One-half cup grape juice cost 01 

One-half pound (i cup) sugar cost 025 

Six tablespoonfuls (f cup) sugar cost 00^ 

ItV = I TTJ 



105 
TT2 



I m or 2 XT2 cents cost of jelly. 

Each child grappled with the subject of common fractions and mas- 
tered it without really knowing it, because he was seeking to answer 
the question, "How much sugar shall I use to make jelly?" His result 
became part of the class results needed to answer the question definitely. 



igii] Home Economics and the Grade Teacher 437 

A comparison of these results showed that, starting with the same 
amount of juice, when no sugar was used there was j cup jelly, and 
that the amount of jelly increased with the amount of sugar. The 
child who used equal amounts of sugar and juice had i| cups jelly 
or six times as much as the child who used no sugar. 

From the good motive in mathematics came skill in manipulation, 
and speed and accuracy in the use of fractions. But above this there 
was presented in tangible form the idea of the value of each indi\dduars 
work. Each pupil saw that it was necessary to the success of the 
experiment that he should carry through to completion carefully his 
part of the experiment and the mathematical computations. To 
the grade teacher here is one of the best helps toward growth in a 
community spirit which can be desired. When a child gets the idea 
that what he does is really valuable to the class and especially when 
he can see this himself without ha\ing to get the idea from his teach- 
er's suggestion he is faced in the right direction and is steadied to put 
forth his best effort. Are we sensitive to the difference in the effect 
upon the development of the children of work performed under such 
a motive and work done for the selfish motive of trying to get the 
highest mark in the class? The cooking here puts a real value upon 
effort, one which the children appreciate and one which sends them to 
other problems in a healthful attitude, mentally and socially. 

The culmination of the first quarter's work in cooking in the sixth 
grade is candy making for a sale, the proceeds of which are used for a 
picture or cast for the school room. Here again is a strong social motive 
which brings excellent results in effort. 

Three kinds of mathematical problems arise in this work. The 
first is in connection with the thermometer. The children have used 
the Fahrenheit scale and now must become familiar with the Centi- 
grade. They must understand that 180 points, called degrees, on 
one thermometer equal 100 points on the other. Enough problems 
are solved in the grade work to enable the pupils to change from one 
thermometer to the other readily. 

The second problem is in connection with the boxes for the candy 
sale. These are made by the class, and are large enough to hold | 
pound. The dimensions of a box of the simplest rectangular shape 
are given. The class work out dimensions of different shapes but 
producing boxes of the half-pound capacity. 

The third problem arises in determining (i) the cost of all materials 
used in making the candy; (2) the total amount received at the candy 



438 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

sale; and (3) the net proceeds of the sale. When the proceeds have 
been expended in the picture or cast, the class have a visible expres- 
sion of the result of their combined efforts. The picture goes with 
them through the elementary school, and then is returned to be an 
incentive to future sixth grades. 

According to the present course of study mathematics in the sev- 
enth grade cooperates with the cooking, enabling the class to answer 
such questions as the following, after the preparatory experiments 
have been performed: 

(i) Determine the amount of soda for a recipe using i cup molasses and 2 cups 
sour milk. 

(2) Given the ratio of the weight of soda to the weight of cream of tartar, as 
184:88: 

(a) What proportion of baking powder is soda? 

(b) What proportion of baking powder is cream of tartar? 

(c) Which gives the more gas, i teaspoonful of soda or i teaspoonful of baking 
powder? How may we prove this? Prove it mathematically. 

(d) In a recipe calling for two teaspoonfuls of baking powder will | teaspoonful 
of soda be a substitute as regards the gas given off? (One cup only of sour milk 
is called for.) 

Here again is opportunity for mutual cooperation between the cook- 
ing and the grade teacher's work to the advancement of the work 
in each department. With this cooperation the children should 
reach the eighth grade fully equipped mathematically to solve all 
problems arising. The grade teacher however, needs, the recipe work 
to supplement her work if the class is weak in mathematics. 

This paper emphasizes the aid mathematics receives from cooking, 
but it is no less true that place geography may receive an equal impetus 
from the work. A comprehension of the location of the sources of 
the various articles of food on our tables daily will demonstrate clearly 
that the whole world is brought to our doors. An excursion to a 
wholesale grocery store where the articles are seen in original wrap- 
pings seems an essential somewhere in the course. 

Ruskin's words are of interest here: 
Cookery means the knowledge of Medea and of Circe and of Helen 
and the queen of Sheba. It means the knowledge of all herbs and 
fruits and balm and spices, and all that is healing and sweet in the 
fields and groves and savory in meats. It means carefulness and 
inventiveness and willingness and readiness of appliances. It means 
the economy of your grandmother and the science of the modern 



iQii] Home Economics and the Grade Teacher 439 

chemist; it means much tasting and no wasting; it means English thor- 
oughness and French art and Arabian hospitality." 

This once accepted as the content of the subject, the grade teacher 
believes in it for what it does for the children. Some of the results 
may be summarized as follows: 

(i) It furnishes opportunity for training in motor control such 
as is found in no other subject. This is valuable to all children and 
especially necessary to children weak in this direction. 

(2) It teaches some knowledge of elementary science. 

(3) It gives a better appreciation of the work done in the daily 
routine in the home. Dr. Dopp says, "No better means are avail- 
able for assisting the child to understand the complex industrial 
organization of the present than to give him experience in some of 
the fundamental processes." Among the half hundred boys in a 
camp in the Wisconsin woods last summer was one who had grown to 
the age of sixteen surrovmded by all the attention and attendants 
wealth could supply, but shielded from all kinds of manual work. He 
had received his education from tutors and so had missed the advan- 
tages which schools offer to give experience in the cost and time of the 
daily preparation of food for the family needs. At the camp he 
became much interested in dishwashing and it was a great revelation 
to him. Day after day he went to the kitchen and wiped dishes for 
an hour, interested to see the great piles of dishes pass through the 
process which left them in place on the shelves. He expressed great 
surprise that it took so much time each meal to care for the dishes. 
He asked about the preparation of the meal and with surprise inquired, 
"Does it take all that time and work?" The child who has had cook- 
ing at school knows with appreciation something of the cost of prep- 
aration of food at home. 

(4) Cooking fits the children to be of social value in the home. 
With what joy did a sixth grade boy offer to bake a cake for the birth- 
day party of the friend he was visiting. What pleasure comes to the 
child and the mother if he or she can get a meal when emergency arises, 
or can set the table or serve the meal. Dr. Scott would make this 
the opportunity for moral training when he says, "Moral training is 
but the subjective side of service to society." 

(5) Cooking furnishes excellent motives for work in mathematics, 
geography, and composition. 

(6) Cooking gives an opportunity for those children who are strong 
in practical lines and have good motor control, but who are weak in 



44° The Journal of Home Economics [December 

history, geography, or mathematics, to measure up with their fellows. 
By the old methods and opportunities the child who could not memor- 
ize easily, write good papers, or work difficult mathematical problems, 
was too often made to beUeve he was far below his classmates, in all 
points. That child, if of a practical turn of mind, often surpasses the 
good book student in cooking. Last week when the general work of 
an eighth grade boy had been declared a failure, the cooking teacher 
said, "He is doing the best work in the class." 

In short, the problem of the grade teacher and the teacher in cook- 
ing is the same: To lead them into the fullest possession of their 
powers; to help them "day by day to move inevitably toward the cul- 
mination of themselves." The watchword should be ''cooperation." 

THE APPLICATION OF SCIENCE TO THE HOUSE- 
KEEPER'S DAILY PROBLEMS.! 

Ellen A. Huntington. 

Agricultural College of Utah. 

Home Economics workers of the "advance guard" have always 
considered the housekeeper a part and parcel of the problem in estab- 
lishing Home Economics on a sound educational basis, but there has 
been little time or energy to spare for a prolonged consideration of 
her daily problems. Now that the pedagogical side of Home Econom- 
ics is comparatively firmly estabUshed and well developed, it would 
seem as if the time were ripe for rendering assistance to the house- 
keeper. Therefore, the application of science to the housekeeper's 
daily problems will probably be attained, first, through the educa- 
tion of future housekeepers in science, and secondly, through investi- 
gational work in connection with the Home Economics departments in 
our colleges. 

Educators have labored and finally converted others to the belief 
that there is as much mental discipline to be obtained from the practi- 
cal application of science to problems in life as there is to be obtained 
from Latin or pure physics. There never has been any question in 
the West but that the education of woman for her position in the home 
or for an occupation stood in as dignified a position as the education 

^ Read at the San Francisco Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association^ July 13, 1911. 



igii] Applicatmi of Science to the Housekeeper 441 

of the boy for his position as engineer, farmer, teacher, or physician. 
As a result it is observed that although western education has had a 
comparatively short period of existence, the education of the future 
housekeeper in science is well provided for. The chemist teaches 
weighing in quantitative analysis by determining the moisture content 
in food and accurate methods of analysis through the analysis of food; 
and according to the newer methods of teaching organic chemistry, 
he ignores many of the compounds and derivatives to the advantage 
of the hydro-carbons and carbo-hydrates. The botanist includes a 
study of plants used as food, and often digresses enough to allow a 
consideration of the textile fibres. The zoologist is eager and ready 
to include eugenics. The economist has always been in this practical 
procession, and it would not seem strange to see the mathematician 
join it soon. Thus the application of science to daily living is an 
established fact for the college girls who will be among the house- 
keepers of the future. 

But the assistance which can be rendered housekeepers through 
investigational work seems somewhat more difficult to accompHsh at 
present, because it necessitates a worker and ample means to do the 
work. The worker must have had thorough grounding in science 
in order to undertake the problem, and there are few women in the 
field at present who are thus well trained and who are not in demand 
for teaching. Those who are teaching and attempting to carry on 
experimental work will appreciate the truth of the saying that half a 
man in experimental work means a quarter of a man in the results 
obtained, and a quarter of a man means no man at all. I believe it is 
largely the fact that women have had only "quarter time" which has 
brought down upon them the criticism that women are inclined to 
dabble in experimental work. Therefore, the teacher of Home Ecot 
nomics finds it difficult to "squeeze in" experimental work with her 
teaching, and the time of the housekeeper is so broken that, although 
she may be well trained in science, she is wise not to attempt experimen- 
tal work. Moreover, she has not the equipment. Then, too, since 
good work once accompUshed should be made available for all, there 
should be a clearing house for such practical information when it is 
once obtained. 

For example, in our western country districts where there is no gas, 
the fireless cooker has proved a boon to housekeepers. The principles 
upon which its efficiency depends are that the heat once acquired may 
be retained through insulation, and that many foods may be cooked 



442 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

at a temperature below the boiling point. The Norwegians as early 
as 1867 used the cook box and later the Germans used their feather 
beds as insulators. In this coimtry many insulating materials have 
been used, but by measuring accurately the temperature of the same 
quantity of starch solution packed in hay, excelsior, sawdust, news- 
paper, asbestos, hair, and mineral wool, it was found that mineral wool 
best conserved the heat. The minimum mass for satisfactory cooking 
was also determined and finally the question of economy in its use was 
considered and experimented upon. At the time this work was done, 
it proved economical of fuel, time, and energy only when used for 
those processes which require long slow cooking. Now, with the 
many improvements such as a cover to draw down quickly over the 
food while it is still boiling hot, or the introduction of hot iron plates 
into the cooker, it has been made even more economical. The results 
of this detailed work would be of use to the housekeeper. 

Again, in this age of scientific management, it seems to me that the 
economic side of a problem is of as much importance as the scientific. 
Louis F. Brandeis, in his work with the railroads, and Mr. and Mrs. 
Gilbraith in their work with the bricklayers, have pointed out that in 
these days of "intensive business" it is necessary to measure small 
economies accurately and scientifically in order to produce efiiciency. 
It will avail little to the housekeeper to have a problem solved scientifi- 
cally if its cost in time or in money is prohibitive. Let me cite an 
example: The time honored coal range, which has been the first essen- 
tial in so many households, is probably doomed to banishment as soon 
as a more efficient and economical method can be devised. The fireless 
cooker is but a step in that direction, but it is not inconceivable that 
central kitchens or bakeries may do the heavy part of the cooking 
more cheaply than it can be done in the home. This would mean that 
those methods of cooking which are now considered accessory might be 
so well developed that they would become sufficient to cover all needs. 

In the hope of proving such an accessory method practical, some 
experimental work has been done with the electric range. In the 
intermountain west where moimtain streams are numerous and their 
power is easily converted into electricity it would seem practical to 
cook by electricity. The housekeeper needs information not only in 
regard to the first cost of the equipment, but also in regard to the 
cost of running it. At present there seems to be but one electric 
range on the market which is at all practicable for household use, and 
this has all the objectionable features of the first gas stoves manufac- 



191 1] Application of Science to the Housekeeper 443 

tured, such as the low, back-breaking oven. This electric range with 
its oven, four discs, broiler, and utensils costs $110.00 plus the freight. 
That there is economy in using the utensils which fit the discs may be 
seen from the fact that it costs 0.25 cent more to boil one quart of 
water in an ordinary aluminum teakettle than in a teakettle made to 
fit the disc closely. 

The cost of running the range is enlightening. In the intermoun- 
tain west the average cost of electricity for cooking purposes is 5 
cents per kilowatt hour. Using this as a basis the following figures 
were obtained: To boil i quart cold water in a cold teakettle required 
12 minutes' time and cost 0.75 cent; to bake a layer cake required 
45 minutes (including the time required to heat the oven for baking) , 
and cost 3.5 cents. To bake four loaves of bread required i hour 18 
minutes and cost 7 cents. To cook a dinner for six consisting of 
cream soup, roast beef, roast potatoes, asparagus, white sauce, cottage 
pudding with hot sauce and coffee, required three hours and cost 
33.5 cents; to heat the water for washing the dishes cost 5 cents more. 

In comparing the cost of baking one loaf of bread with coal and gas, 
we find for coal 0.21 cents, for gas 0.25 cents and for electricity 1.75 
cents. Therefore, cooking with electricity is as yet an expensive 
method of cooking and much slower. On the other hand, it does 
satisfactory work, it is cleaner than gas or coal and always ready, so 
that the optimistic housekeeper may hope that the electrical com- 
panies will develop the range to make it more eflScient. 

Other problems, such as high altitude cookery, which seems to be 
a question of density of gases so far as investigated, or the question 
of using Utah flour for bread and the difficulties with different yeasts, 
or the effect of the pasteurization of milk upon the organic compounds, 
could be worked out for the housekeeper by the Home Economics 
worker if she had the time and means for such work. 

As a means to this end. Senator Smoot of Utah introduced a bill into 
Congress in March, 19 10, which was in due course read twice and 
referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. This was a 
bill to provide for an increased annual appropriation for agricultural 
experiment stations, to be used in researches in Home Economics 
and for regulating the expenditure thereof. A portion of the bill reads 
as follows: "Be it enacted that there shall be and hereby is, annually 
appropriated out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appro- 
priated, to be paid as hereinafter provided, to each State and Terri- 
tory for the more complete endowment and maintenance of agricul- 



444 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

tural experiment stations now established, or which may hereafter 
be estabUshed, the sum of ten thousand dollars, to be applied only to 
paying the necessary expenses of conducting original or confirmatory 
researches or experiments bearing directly on Home Economics, 
including both domestic science and domestic arts, and printing 
and disseminating the results of said researches or experiments, having 
due regard for the varying conditions and needs of the respective States 
and Territories. That bulletins shall be published as the experiment 
stations will publish them, etc." 

As yet the bill has not been reported from the committee. It was 
reintroduced last spring and is still pending. 

With our college girls as future housekeepers versed in science and 
its application, with well trained Home Economics workers devoting 
their whole time to research work, and with the experiment stations 
provided with sufficient means, the application of science to the house- 
keeper's daily problem would be assured. 



AN EARLY EXPERIMENT IN THE INTRODUCTION 

OF MANUAL TRAINING INTO THE 

COLLEGE CURRICULUM. 

C. F. Langworthy. 

The records of Middlebury College show that Dr. Joshua Bates, 
who was president of the institution from 1817 to 1839, was interested 
in manual training and beUeved that it could be a part of college work. 

The college was established in 1800 and at the time Dr. Bates became 
its president was passing through a period of financial depression. 
When Dr. Bates took up his duties as president there was much to 
discourage him, for the college was suffering from a lack of funds and 
from numerous changes in its faculty. Under his able direction the 
college entered upon a period of prosperity. 

The records show that in 1829 a mechanical association was formed 
and that for a short time manual training was introduced into the col- 
lege curriculum. For this work a shop was furnished and tools were 
suppHed. About this time particular attention seems to have been 
given to scientific work, for chemical apparatus was imported from 
London, and a collection of minerals was made for use in college work. 
Apparently, the manual training course did not progress very satis- 
factorily, for in 1833 Dr. Bates attempted to raise a $50,000 fund, 
principally for the erection of a new college building, but in part for 
the establishment of an eflScient manual training department. The 
college building was erected but nothing definite seems to have come 
of the plan for manual training in the college, and the project was event- 
ually lost sight of. These facts are briefly summarized in a publica- 
tion issued in 1900, at the time the college celebrated the one hun- 
dredth anniversary of its founding. 

It would be interesting to know what led Dr. Bates to conclude that 
a manual training department was a desirable part of the curriculum 
of a classical college and whether the idea was in accord with any gen- 
eral feeling at the time or whether it was a conclusion which represented 
only his personal views. The examination of old college publications 
and similar data would doubtless throw light on the subject, which is 
not without interest in considering the development of education in 
the United States. 

445 



STUDIES OF METHODS IN FOOD PREPARATION: 
PASTRY.^ 

Elizabeth Sprague. 

University of Chicago. 

If the preparation of food is to claim a place as an applied science, 
it seems necessary that the ordinary processes of cooking be reduced 
to a more exact basis than now prevails. With this object in view, 
we have been working with our advanced classes at the University of 
Chicago along several lines of investigation. 

The first difficulty with which we were confronted was the lack of a 
definite standard of measure. Like others, our laboratory is equipped 
with glass measuring cups divided into thirds and quarters. But the 
capacities of these cups were found to vary anywhere from 225 cc. to 
250 cc, so that it is not surprising that a cup of sugar might be found 
to weigh from 195 grams to 215 grams. A granite measuring cup was 
found on the market which is much more exact, as it is also more ex- 
pensive. Even with accurate measures , however, it is difficult to fill 
the cups each time so that the weight of a given volume shall be the 
same. The number of times the flour has been sifted or the manner 
of filling the cup will cause a variation in weight. 

From time to time a number of students have worked on the prob- 
lem of standardizing measures and as a result of the large number of 
determinations the following averages have been adopted as tentative 
standards, A standard measuring cup should contain one-fourth 
of a quart (950 cc.) of water or 237.5 grams. On this basis a cup of 
milk weighs 247 grams, butter 216 grams, sugar 195 grams, pastry 
flour 100 grams, and bread flour 113 grams. 

While we have used these weights satisfactorily in our studies of 
methods during the past two years, we recognize the desirability of the 
establishment of official, uniform standards through the agency of such 

* Presented at the St. Louis Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, December 30, 1910. 

446 



iQii] Food Preparation: Pastry 447 

an organization as this association. Weighed amounts must be used 
when experimental work is done, but these amoimts to be of practical 
use, at present, must be translated into measures. We hope therefore 
that this association will assume the responsibility of determining 
the necessary standards. Eventually it may be desirable to express 
recipes in weights to the exclusion of measures, but that day is probably 
distant. It is interesting to note that after becoming accustomed to 
weighing materials to be used, some of the students are not content 
to use measured amounts even in practical work. 

One of the cooking processes, which has been studied in considerable 
detail by several students, is that of pastry making. Because of the 
limited number of ingredients used, and the comparative simplicity 
of the process, this subject lends itself especially well to investigation. 
The aim of the study has been to discover the influence of various fac- 
tors on the cost and quality of pastry. 

Materials. 

The materials selected for testing in this study were as follows: 
Flour: (i) Bread flour, a well known commercial brand; (2) pastry 

flour (ordinary) of 4 different brands; (3) pastry flour (fancy); and 

(4) bread flour mixed with various proportions of cornstarch. 
Fat: (i) Lard; (2) butter; (3) a commercial lard substitute; (4) 

butter and lard; and (5) butter and the commercial lard substitute 

in several proportions. 

Method. 

The usual method of making plain paste was used in most cases. 
According to the preference of the individual, the fat was mLxed either 
with a knife or with the tips of the fingers. Except in a few cases, all 
of the fat was added to the flour at the beginning — not added by rolling 
into the paste. The crusts were baked at a temperature of 240 C. 

Proportions. 

{A) Fat. — The proportion ol ingredients necessary to make crusts 
of equal tenderness varies with both the kind of fat and the kind of 
flour used. In every case more fat is required with the bread than 
with the pastry flour. Of the various fats, more butter than lard was 



448 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

required and more lard than the lard substitute, while with mixtures 
of fats, intermediate amounts may be used. In our tests, the amounts 
us(ed with one cup of bread flour varied from 62 grams of the lard sub- 
stituted to 85 grams of butter; and with one cup of pastry flour from 
43 grams of the lard substitute to 62 grams of butter. Roughly 
stated, \ cup of fat for bread flour is needed, but if butter is used one 
tablespoonful more should be used, or if the lard substitute, one table- 
spoonful less. In general, one may consider that i cup of fat is suf- 
ficient for pastry flour, but this should be increased by g tablespoonful 
for butter and may be decreased by | tablespoonful if the lard sub- 
stitute is used. The proportion of fat used, then, may vary from \ 
cup to \ cup for bread flour and from \ to \ cup for pastry flour. 

As the proportion of fat is increased, the proportion of salt needed 
increases also. Of the various fats, the lard substitute demands the 
largest proportion and butter the smallest. The usual usage is from 
four grams (less than one tablespoonful) for butter to six grams (ij 
teaspoonful) for the lard substitute to each cup of bread flour. 

{B) Water. — The amount of water used varies with the amount and 
kind of fat and also with the kind of flour used. In general the 
larger the amount of fat used, the smaller will be the amount of water 
required. But bread flour with \ cup of fat wfll require as much or 
more water than pastry flour having only \ cup of fat. However, the 
amount of water used depends upon the individual worker. In 
almost every case one of our students used a larger amount of water 
than did another. This is due to her personal preference for the kind 
of crust resulting. When the smaller amount of liquid is used a cer- 
tain degree of pressure with the hands is necessary to form the paste, 
and the crust when baked is so friable that it can with difficulty be 
be taken from the plate. That made with the larger amount of liquid, 
while still tender, is more consistent and there is less danger of break- 
age. 

The amount of water to be added is one of the most variable factors. 
It is influenced not only by the kind of flour and the kind and amount 
of fat, but also by the temperature of the paste and the fineness 
of division of the fat in the flour. Such factors as these may account 
for variations from the normal. 

The amount of water used has a decided influence upon the tender- 
ness of the crust. In an experiment where different amounts of water 
were I'sed with the same flour and same amount and kind of fat, 30 



igii] Food Preparation: Pastry 449 

grams of water with i cup of pastry flour and 1 cup of lard made a 
Crust which was friable (or as it seemed to the student, "too rich"); 
36 grams produced a crust of desirable tenderness; while 40 and 44 grams 
resulted in a product more or less tovigh. 

Ingredients. 

(A) Flour. — It was agreed that bread flour makes a good crust, 
ordinary pastry flour one which is more tender, and fine pastry flour 
the most tender of all. However, to some the difference in tender- 
ness between the ordinary and fine pastry flours was not considered 
suflacient to compensate for the increased cost. One experiment was 
made in which bread flour was modified by different percentages of 
cornstarch. When 15 per cent of cornstarch was added, the resulting 
crust could not be distinguished from the fine pastry flour, and the 
cost was much less. 

(B) Fat. — Butter gives the best flavor and the lard substitute the 
poorest. If butter and the lard substitute are combined in equal pro- 
portions, the flavor of the latter is fairly well covered. The lard sub- 
stitute makes a crust which is very tender and friable but not so flaky 
as lard. Because of the softness of the fat it is more essential to keep 
the ingredients cold when using it. 

Cost. 

When the different fats are used with the several types of flour in 
amounts suitable to produce crusts of approximately the same quality, 
there are marked differences in the cost. Obviously the use of butter 
increases the cost most markedly. The use of the fine grade of pastry 
flour also raises the cost considerably. The cheapest crust is made by 
using the lard substitute, with ordinary pastry flour. This cost < nly 
2.5 cents per cup. The most expensive made was by using butter 
with bread flour, which cost 8 cents per cup. The cost was calculated 
on the average retail price of materials — e.g., lard, 18 cents per pound, 
butter 35 cents, the lard substitute 15 cents, pastr>' flour 5 cents per 
pound, bread flour 24 lbs. for 85 cents, and the fine pastry flour 44 oz. 
for 25 cents. 



450 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



The results are summarized in the following table: 



Table I. Pastry made with varying amounts c 


/ different fati 


to produce the same 




tenderness. 












FLOUK. 


FAT. 


WATER. 


SALT. 


COST PER CUP. 


Kind. 1 Weight 


Kind. 


Weight. 


Weight. 


Weight. 


Flour. 


Fat. 


Total. 






Grams. 


Grams. 


Grams. 


Grams. 


Cenls. 


Cents. 


Cents. 






Lard 


72 


46 


6 


0.9 


2.9 


3-8 






Butter 


85 


50 


4-5 


0.9 


7-1 


8.0 


Bread ..." 




Lard substitute 


62 


26 


6 


0.9 


2.0 


2.9 


113 ' 


Butter + lard 


79 


35 


5 


0.9 


51 


6.0 






Butter + lard 


















substitute 


74 


30 


5 


0.9 


4-5 


5-4 






Lard 


54 


40 


5 


I.I 


2.2 


3 3 






Butter 


64 


48 


4 


I.I 


5-3 


6.4 


Pastry. . . < 


100 < 


Lard substitute 


43-2 


20 


5 


I.I 


1-4 


2-5 






Butter + lard 


59 


27 


4-5 


I.I 


3-7 


4-8 






Butter + lard 


















substitute 


54 


25 


4-5 


I.I 


3-4 


45 






Lard 


54 


40 


5 


2.0 


2.2 


4.2 


Fancy 




Butter 


64 


48 


4 


2.0 


5-3 


7.2 


pastry 


100 ( 


Lard substitute 


43-2 


20 


5 


2.0 


1-4 


3-4 






Butter + lard 


59 


27 


4-5 


2.0 


3-7 


5-7 






Butter + lard 


















substitute 


54 


25 


4-5 


2.0 


3-4 


S-4 



Methods of Mixing. 

A little work was done on the influence of different methods of com- 
bining. The same proportions were used but part of the fat was added 
by rolling it in successive portions into the paste. It seemed quite 
clearly indicated that by this method the paste is more flakey but less 
tender. This is to be expected since with the smaller amount of fat 
used in making the first paste a larger amount of water will be used 
and, as already shown, increasing the amount of water increases the 
toughness of the crust. 

Experiments were also tried in which egg-white, or baking powder, 
or both, were added. The conclusion in regard to the former was that 
it increased the cost without adequate influence upon the quality of 
the crust. If baking powder is used the proportion of fat can be de- 
creased without injuring the quality of the crust. However the crust 
did not keep well, acquiring a quite unpleasant taste within a day or 
so. 



igii] Food Preparation: Pastry 451 

Methods of Treating the Lower Crust of a Juicy Pie to Prevent 
ITS Becoming Soggy. 

The following methods were studied to see their influence upon the 
sogginess of the under crust of a juicy pie: 

(i) The crust was spread with egg white; (2) the crust was sprinkled 
with flour; (3) the crust was sprinkled with com starch; (4) the pie 
was put on the bottom of a very hot oven (300° C.) for 15 minutes, then 
the temperature lowered to 240° C; (5) the lower crust was baked 5 
minutes and then filled; (6) pies were baked in granite plates, perfor- 
ated tin, tin wire, and plain tin plates (the latter both new and old) ; 
(7) the top crust was washed with water before putting into the oven 
which was kept at 300° C; (8) the pie was put for 15 minutes on the 
bottom of an oven at a temperature of 300° C, then removed to the 
upper shelf. 

The following conclusions were reached: 

(i) Egg white, flour and cornstarch serve to prevent sogginess to 
some extent. 

(2) Pies baked in a granite plate are most browned on the bottom, 
those in an old tinplate are second, while the perforated and wire tins 
are next in order. 

(3) The best way to bake a juicy pie is in a granite plate, placing it 
on the bottom of an oven at 300° C. for 15 minutes, then removing 
it to the upper shelf to finish baking. 

While the resvdts herein reported, owing to the limited amount of 
data, will only permit one to draw tentative conclusions, they do serve 
to give much more definite information than we have had heretofore. 

This report illustrates the methods which we are using at the Uni- 
versity of Chicago to study the ordinary cooking processes which 
have been so largely controlled by rule-of-thumb methods. Similar 
studies have been made upon the making of bread, biscuits, cake, and 
doughnuts; upon factors influencing the efl5ciency of freezing mixtures; 
upon the amount and kinds of ingredients desirable in gelatin desserts, 
etc. By these means we not only acquire very desirable information 
but we also train the students in methods of research and in the com- 
pilation and interpretation of data, and give them valuable training 
in technique. It is a frequent criticism of college courses that students 
are not given an opportunity to acquire technical skill. It is impos- 
sible to undertake the study of a problem of this nature of any length 
without considerably increasing this type of ability. 



THE PRESERVATIVE ACTION OF SPICES. 

Conrad Hoffmann and Alice C. Evans. 
Agricultural Bacteriological Laboratories, University of Wisconsin. 

During recent years there has been a good deal of discussion and 
legislation on food preservatives. Sodium benzoate has been of par- 
ticular interest because some experts maintain that it is not harmful 
to the human system when used in quantities that will prevent the 
growth of micro-organisms in food, whereas others ascribe injurious 
properties to it, and strongly condemn its use. Whatever may be the 
merits of this controversy, the fact remains that many people prefer 
not to eat food containing sodium benzoate. At this time, therefore, 
it is interesting to consider the preserving properties of various articles 
which we commonly use in our food. 

It is a matter of common knowledge that fruits or vegetables pre- 
pared with the addition of spices and vinegar keep longer without 
being carefully sealed than do those same fruits or vegetables put up 
alone or with only ordinary amounts of sugar. Unsealed pickles and 
ketchups will keep for a long time without the growth of micro-organ- 
isms. Cakes containing spices are also known to keep longer than 
other cakes. Fruit cake, which always contains spices, is often made 
several weeks before using, since its quality is said to improve with 
age. Although it is known in a general way that spices have something 
to do with the keeping of food to which they have been added, yet 
they have never been used with the primary idea of exerting a preser- 
vative effect. The spices are added rather on account of the flavor 
which they impart, and it is only a lucky coincidence that they also 
help to keep the food from spoiling. When spices are used in food, 
several kinds are almost always added together, and usually the cook- 
ing is done in a liquid which contains more or less vinegar. It is com- 
mon to add to pickles and ketchups, especially, as many as six or 
eight kinds of spices. Just which of the spices have any value in 
preserving the food, is not generally known. 

452 



igii] Preservative Action of Spices 453 

All condiments are irritating to the mucous membrane, and are 
injurious when used in excessive amounts. Their use, then, must be 
limited. Hence every housewife should know just which of the con- 
diments she adds in her cooking will help to preserve the food, and 
which of them are of no value except for their flavor, so that she can 
regulate her use of them accordingly. As it -will be seen in the tables 
below, some of the most irritating spices have no value whatever as 
preservatives. 

Vinegar in sufficiently high concentration prevents the growlh of 
micro-organisms, and must be considered an important preservative. 
In a single test made by us, 100 cc. of vinegar was added to 100 grams 
of apple sauce. The mixture was boiled over a flame until the volume 
was again reduced to 100 cc, when it was exposed to the air for a few 
days and then stoppered to prevent evaporation. The sauce has not 
spoiled after 4I months. In much less concentration the vinegar 
would no doubt retard growth. 

A few experiments were carried out under conditions that would 
pertain in any kitchen to compare the preserving properties of various 
spices, and to determine the amoimts of them which will prevent all 
growth of micro-organisms. Apple sauce to which a small amount of 
sugar had been added was used in all of the tests except those on gin- 
ger, black pepper, and cayenne pepper recorded in Table I where 
cabbage was used. In every case the given amount of spice was 
mixed with 100 grams of the cooked material in small Erlenmeyer 
flasks. After adding the spice the flasks were placed in the steam 
sterilizer and steamed for thirty minutes. When removed from the 
sterilizer they were left open in the laboratory for a few days to 
receive contamination from the air and then closed with cork stoppers 
to prevent evaporation. The figures in the tables show the number of 
days after being put up when growth was first observed in the flasks. 
It was assumed that the growth of yeasts, molds, or bacteria would 
change the appearance or odor of the sauce, and no further tests for 
growth were made. In every case it was the molds which first made 
their appearance. The flasks were not examined between the sixtieth 
and one-hundredth days, so that the exact time of the spoilage of the 
apple sauce containing allspice in three of the flasks is not known. The 
tests recorded in Table I were preliminary, and the results served to 
suggest the amounts of spices to be used in later experiments. 



454 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Table I- 


-Time of spoilage of food containing 


varying 


amounts of spices. 


o 

O P< 

a" 


o 

oi 

H 
55 
O 


i 

H 




1 

< 


O 


m 

> 

O 


d 

w 
o 


3"^ 


g B< 




< 


u 


!5 


u 


< 


O 


o 


pa 


D 


a 


Grams. 


Days. 


Z>aj/s. 




Days. 




Days. 


Daj/s. 


Days. 




O 


4 


















2-5 

S 

75 




S 
6 

7 


No 

spoilage 
in 14 


l6 
1 6o- 

lOO 


No 
• spoilage 


5 
5 

■ S 


4 
4 
4 


4 
4 
4 
4 
4 


No 
^ spoilage 
in 14 


lO 

IS 




i6 

27 


months. 


195 


in 14 
months. 


S 
. S 


4 
4 


months 



From Table I it appears that ginger, black pepper, and cayenne 
pepper do not prevent the growth of micro-organisms, but that cinna- 
mon, cloves, and mustard are valuable preservatives and that nutmeg 
and allspice delay growth. 

Further experiments were carried out to determine more accurately 
the amounts that will prevent growth. Flasks were again put up 
with ginger, black pepper, and cayenne pepper in large amounts. The 
results are given in Table II, as follows: 

Table II. — Time of spoilage of apple sauce containing varying amounts of spices. 



AMOUNT OF 
SPICE. 


CONTROL. 


GINGER. 


BLACK PEPPER. 


CAYENNE PEPPER. 


Grams. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 





4 








15 




6 




7 


20 




8 


6 


7 


30 




7 


6 


6 



EVen where th^ large amounts of 30 grams of spice to 100 grams of 
apple sauce were used growth took place only two or three days later 
than in the control flask. Bitting^ reports that molds will grow in 
a few days on a paste made of these ground spices mixed with w^ater. 
It is obvious, then, that ginger, black pepper, and cayenne pepper can 
be of no value as preservatives in the small proportions in which they 
are used in cooking. 

The effect of cinnamon, cloves, mustard, allspice, and nutmeg in 
small amounts was tested in another experiment. The results are 
given in Table III: 



lU. S. Dept. Agriculture, Bureau Chemistry Bull. 119. 
Spoilage of Tomato Ketchup. 



Experiments on the 



19 1 1] Preservative Action of Spcies 455 

Table III. — Time of spoilage of apple sauce preserved with spices. 



AHOtlNT 

OP 

SPICE. 


CONTROL. 


CINNAMON. 


CLOVES. 


MUSTARD. 


ALLSPICE. 


NUTMEG. 


Grams. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 





9 












0.25 




9 


15 








0-5 

I 

i-S 

2 




30 

84 

84 

Not spoiled 
in 8 months 


15 

74 

Not 

. spoiled in 

8 months 


IIS 
60 

Not 


9 
9 

9 


9 


2.5 

5 








j spoiled in 8 
J months 


16 
9 


9 
9 


7-5 












9 


10 












10 



Allspice in the proportion of 5 grams of spice to 100 grams of sauce 
did not have even a retarding effect, although the flask containing 
2.5 grams kept sixteen days, whereas the control flask kept nine days. 
Nutmeg in the proportion of 10 grams to 100 grams of sauce delayed 
growth only one day. Hence these spices also cannot be considered 
of practical value as antiseptics. 

Cinnamon, cloves, and mustard are about equal in their efl&ciency. 
The flask containing 0.5 gram of mustard kept for almost four months; 
the flask containing i gram kept two months; and the flasks contain- 
ing 2, 2.5, and 5 grams were still keeping, eight months after having 
been put up. The flask containing 0.5 gram of cinnamon kept one 
month; the flasks containing i and 1.5 grams kept almost three months, 
and the flask containing 2 grams is still keeping. Cloves in the pro- 
portion of 0.25 gram to 100 grams of sauce delayed growth for several 
days; the flask containing i gram kept for 2^ months; and the flasks 
containing 1.5 and 2 grams are still keeping. 

The three spices cinnamon, mustard, and cloves, must then be 
considered important preservatives. Cinnamon and mustard are 
particularly valuable, for they are palatable even when used in pro- 
portions that prevent all growth. Cloves in the proportion which 
prevented growth (1.5 grams to 100 grams of sauce) had too much of 
a burning taste to be palatable. However, they retard growth in 
much smaller amounts. 

The active antiseptic constituents of mustard, cinnamon, and cloves 



4S6 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



are their aromatic or essential oils, as they are termed. Clove buds 
yield about 15 per cent of essential oils, of which the greatest part is 
eugenol, or oil of cloves. Cinnamon bark yields from 0.5 to i per cent 
of essential oils. About 70 per cent of this is cinnamic aldehyde, 
which gives to cinnamon its characteristic odor. The essential oil 
of cinnamon also contains from 4 to 8 per cent of eugenol and some other 
aromatic compounds in smaller amounts. 

The much smaller yield of the essential oil from cinnamon bark 
as compared with that from clove buds is compensated by its much 
greater antiseptic properties, which are brought out in Table IV. 
These tests also were made with apple sauce. 



Table IV.— 


Time of spoilage of apple sauce preserved with essential oils. 


AMOUNT OF OIL. 


CONTROL. 


CINNAMIC ALDEHYDE. 


E0GENOL. 


Grams. 
Test A. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


0.026 


3 


80 


6 


0.052 




120 


12 


0.105 




Not spoiled in 14 


Not spoiled in 14 


0157 




months 


months 


0.21 




, 


. 


Test B. 








0.0 


9 


60 




0.013 






9 


0.026 






13 


0.052 




Not spoiled in 8 


9 






months 


Not spoiled in 8 


0.105 




. 


months 



Cinnamic aldehyde even in the smallest proportion used — a little 
over o.oi gram to 100 grams of sauce — delayed growth to sixty days, 
and in double this amoimt prevented growth entirely in the second 
set of flasks. As in the case of the cinnamon from which it is derived, 
cinnamic aldehyde is palatable in proportions which will preserve food. 

It required considerably higher proportions of eugenol for com- 
plete preservation. In both tests 0.105 gram of eugenol to 100 grams 
of sauce prevented all growth. This amount gives too much of 
a burning taste to be palatable, which is in agreement with the results 
obtained with cloves. One-half of this amount delayed growth some- 
what, and did not give too strong a flavor. The essential oils of both 
cinnamon and cloves, however, lack much of the good flavor of the 
spices. 



tQii] Preservative Action of Spices 457 

In continuation of the above work, it was thought advisable, in 
view of the present controversy relative to the manufacture of ketch- 
ups and the use of preservatives therein, to examine various ketchups 
as to the tj'pes of organisms present. Spices are extensively used in 
the manufacture of ketchup and in many commercial brands sodium 
benzoate is employed as a preservative. The use 'of sugar also has 
been adopted as aiding the keeping quaUties of ketchups. 

Accordingly any organisms which could grow in such a medium 
would be more or less of a resistant type and a critical and crucial 
test of the preserv^ative action of various substances could be made 
upon them. In previous work these substances had been added to 
the mediimi and the latter then exposed to natural contamination. 
The work reported below was performed on pure cultures of organisms 
isolated from ketchups which were undergoing spoilage, the method 
adopted for this work being analogous to that employed in testing the 
strengths of disinfectants. 

On examining various ketchups, the predominant type of organism 
usually found proved to be yeasts, presumably several of the wild 
species. These undoubtedly find a favorable medium in ketchup, 
particularly that containing sugar, which they ferment with evolu- 
tion of carbon dioxide, this resulting in the characteristic gassy fer- 
mentation of many of the spoiled ketchups. Of the bottles examined 
several were so charged with carbon dioxide that on opening, the con- 
tents were blown out of the bottle in all directions with explosive force. 
Besides yeasts several organisms of the bacillar type were isolated, 
and in several bottles of ketchup which had been bottled cold an 
organism identical in most respects to the ordinary lactic acid bacterium 
was found. A large spore-forming bacillus was isolated from one of 
the heated ketchups. The predominant flora throughout, however, 
proved to be yeasts. 

After preliminary isolation of these various organisms on an acidi- 
fied tomato-broth agar, replating and re-isolation were performed to 
insure purity of the cultures. No attempt was made to identify these 
various organisms by detailed study. They were employed directly 
to test out the preservative action of cinnamic aldehyde, eugenol, 
and benzoic acid, respectively. Numerous difficulties were here 
encountered before a suitable medium and a satisfactory method were 
devised. The medium finally adopted was a tomato broth bouillon 
containing i per cent sugar and adjusted to 1.5 per cent normal acid. 
But even with this medium, which gave good growth, it was difficult 



4S8 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



to test out the action of the various substances above mentioned, owing 
to the fact that their addition even in minute quantities occasioned a 
more or less pronounced turbidity which was with difficulty differen- 
tiated from that produced by bacterial growth. In several cases it 
was necessary to make microscopical examinations in order to ascer- 
tain whether or not growth had occurred. 

Suspensions of the respective organisms were prepared by inoculating 
tubes of the tomato bouillon and incubating until turbidity had 
occurred, which usually required forty-eight hours. After thorough 
shaking one loopful of these cultures was transferred to tubes con- 
taining 5 cc. of sterile broth. To these were then added varying 
amoimts of cinnamic aldehyde, eugenol, and benzoic acid, respectively, 
equivalent to i, 2, 5, and loparts per 10,000 partsof inoculated bouillon. 
Two tubes of each organism with each of the varying amounts of the 
different preservatives were prepared. All tubes were incubated at 
37° C. and examined daily for three days. The results secured are 
recorded in Table V. 



Table V. — Influence of preservatives indicated upon growth of certain organisms. 



OBGANISM 
EMPLOYED. 



CINNAMIC ALDEHYDE. 



BENZOIC ACID. 



23d spore-formers. 



5X yeast . 



+ 

23y bacillus (spore-former)] -|- 
23d bacillus (spore-former) ' -|- 
236 blunt bacillus.. . . , 

5n yeast 

27a yeast 

5b yeast 

Sd yeast 

23g bacillus in chains 



+ 



+ 



+ 



+ 



+ 



+ 



+ 



From the data submitted it is at once apparent that cinnamic alde- 
hyde possesses a more marked antiseptic action than either eugenol 



iQii] Preservative Ac Hon of Spices 459 

or benzoic acid. Of the two latter, benzoic acid appears to be by 
far the least effective as a preservative. In case of cinnamic aldehyde 
a concentration of 2 parts per 10,000 was sufficient to inhibit the growth 
of most organisms, only 3 out of the nine employed showing growth 
at this concentration. With eugenol 5 parts per 10,000 proved insuffi- 
cient to prevent the growth of all the organisms tried, five out of nine 
having grown. Benzoic acid on the other hand revealed a much 
weaker antiseptic action than either of the above, eight forms out of 
nine growing in a concentration equivalent to 10 parts per 10,000, and 
five out of nine in a concentration of 20 parts per 10,000, while three 
others showed doubtful e\ddence of growth. 

In view of the fact that this work on pure cultures was performed 
by one of the authors, whereas the work on the apple sauce was per- 
formed independently by the other, it is interesting to note that the 
results in both cases coincide remarkably. For direct contamination 
of the specially prepared apple sauce, it was found that 0.0 1 gram of 
cinnamic aldehyde per 100 grams of sauce (equivalent to i part per 
10,000) was sufficient to delay growth at least 60 days and that 2 
parts per 10,000 prevented all growth, results with which the data 
in Table V correspond very closely. With eugenol the same remark- 
able correspondence maintains, the results of both observers showing 
that 10 parts per 10,000 were sufficient to inhibit growth. Thus, 
both methods, the more practical household method of direct exposure 
to contamination and the laboratory pure-culture method, yielded 
results identical in all respects. 

In view of the above, it appears that cinnamic aldehyde and eugenol 
as such possess considerable preservative action and aid materially 
in preser\dng substances to which they are added. As both are con- 
tained in such spices as cinnamon and cloves, no doubt the marked 
preservative action of these spices, as shown in the above experiments 
must be attributed to their content of these essential oils. As this 
preser\'ative action takes place, even when the spices are used in the 
small quantities necessary for flavoring, may not their use be recom- 
mended in contrast to such spices as pepper and ginger, which have 
been shown to possess but little, if any, preservative action? The 
possibility of the more liberal use of cinnamon and cloves in the prep- 
aration of ketchup is also of interest because of its bearing on the 
use of preserv^atives in such materials, concerning which there has been 
so much discussion. 



STRENGTH OF FLOURS.^ 

Frances Freeman. 

Strength according to Humphries and Biff en is "the capacity for 
making large well-piled loaves," meaning by this, size and shape. 
T, B. Wood also gives the primary factor as size of the loaf, the other 
factors being shape, and perhaps to a slight extent texture. The old 
idea was that strength was due to gluten which because of its tenacity 
held in the bread the carbon dioxide evolved by the yeast. Some in- 
vestigators suggest that strength depends upon the ratio of gliadinto 
glutenin. However, Wood concludes that neither percentage of 
total nitrogen nor of gliadin in the flour, nor the ratio of gliadin to 
glutenin can be taken as an absolute measure indicating strength in 
flour. 

Wood's theory is that the largeness of the loaf depends chiefly upon 
the power of flour to give off gas fermented withyeast, and the sugges- 
tion is made that shapeUness and probably gas retention are dependent 
upon the physical properties of the gluten as modified by the presence 
of the varyingproportionsof salts. Theproperties of gluten which vary 
with concentration of acid and salt are coherence, elasticity, and water 
content, and it is suggested that these properties have an important 
bearing on the shape of the loaf. 

Snyder concludes that to produce bread of the best properties, and 
to have a well-balanced gluten capable of expansion, it must be com- 
posed of approximately 65 per cent of gliadin and 35 per cent of glu- 
tenin. 

With these two theories as a basis for work, determinations In eight 
samples were made of total nitrogen, water- and salt-soluble nitrogen, 
glutenin, and gliadin, according to the methods used by Snyder. 
The soluble carbohydrates dextrose and sucrose were determined by 
use of Allihn's modification of Fehling's solution. Carbon dioxide 
was estimated by collecting the gas evolved by the flour fermented by 

1 This paper and the one following represent joint graduate work at the Ohio 
State University. They were presented at the St. Louis Meeting, December, 1810, 
of the American Home Economics Association. 

460 



igii] Experimental Work With Flours 461 

yeast for a period of 16 hours. Total acidity was found by titration 
with tenth-normal sodium hydroxid. 

The soluble salts were determined by measuring their electrical re- 
sistance in ohms, the post-ofl5ce box form of Wheatstone bridge, 
Kohlrausch cell, being used. 

With the exception of one flour the proportion of glutenin to gliadin 
was 43 156 . Although this does not agree with Snyder's proportion for 
good flour, excellent bread of good shape and size was made from some 
of the samples, but poor bread of good shape and small size was obtained 
from others. Durum flour — -with the proportion of gluten to gliadin 
36:63 — made the smallest loaf, though it agreed almost exactly with 
Snyder's proportion. This flour also contained the highest percentage 
of soluble carbohydrates and gave a high carbon dioxide evolution. 
Since it made the smallest loaf, this also does not bear out Wood's 
theory. 

No definite agreement was found between the size of the loaf, the 
carbon dioxide involved, and the total soluble carbohydrates. The 
only comparison observed was that the two flours giving the smallest 
loaves and best shape contained also the smallest amounts of water- 
soluble nitrogen, which may be only a coincidence. No relation could 
be seen between the total acidity and soluble salts and the shape and 
sLze of the loaf. 

The size may depend upon some property of the gluten for retain- 
ing the gas evolved. 

EXPERIMENTAL WORK WITH WINTER AND SPRING 
WHEAT FLOURS. 

Ida Shilling. 

The value of flour to the baker, according to Wood, depends upon 
at least four distinct properties: (a) The volume of the loaf 
given quantity will produce, which may vary more than 30 per cent; 
(b) the amoimt of water which a given quantity will absorb in making 
a dough of the proper consistency for baking, which may vary from 
one-half to three quarters of its own weight; (c) the shape of the loaf; 
and (d) the texture and color of the bread. 

Some studies of the relative qualities of different sorts of flour have 
been made recently at the Ohio State University as a part of graduate 
work, and are here briefly reported. The samples of spring wheat 



462 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

jiour used included two commercial brands (A) and (B) and a second 
grade durum. The winter wheat flours included five commercial 
brands, designated as (C), (D), (E), (F) and (G). 

The simplest possible recipe and the quick-process method were 
used. For scoring the flour 425 gms. were taken as a standard. The 
remaining ingredients weighed as follows: 5.5 grams salt; 12.5 grams 
lard; and 12.5 grams sugar. The yeast was soaked in a measured 
amount of water and 35 cc. of this mixture, the equivalent of one 
cake, was used for each loaf. 

The amount of water used for each flour was determined by the 
baker's sponge test. This also gave the theoretical volume. 

Each loaf was made separately. Weighed amounts of salt, sugar , and 
lard were placed in mixing bowls. The determined amount of boil- 
ing water, minus 35 cc, was then added. This mixture was allowed 
to cool until luke-warm when the yeast was put in. The flour was 
thoroughly worked in by means of a spatula, special care being taken 
not to lose any. It was then kneaded in the bowl for ten minutes, and 
was allowed to rise until it doubled in volume, when it was placed in 
a greased pan without kneading and again allowed to rise until the vol- 
ume doubled. 

By experiment it was foimd that a second kneading had no effect 
on size and shape. The temperatures worked out were 240° C. 
the first 15 minutes; 220° C. the second 15 minutes; and 200° C. the 
third 15 minutes. 

The volume was determined by displacement in sugar. Each loaf 
was first weighed and then measured. The bread was also judged as 
to shape, color, texture, and flavor. 

Only one sample (durum) gave Snyder's ratio (36:63). This also 
contained 8.6 per cent of soluble carbohydrates, more than any 
other sample. It made the smallest loaf, but had a most excellent 
shape. Therefore in this case, neither Wood's nor Snyder's theories 
hold good. 

Commercial brands (A), (E),and (B) each made large loaves of good 
shape, with a proportion of glutenin to gliadin of 42:58. Brand (C) 
made a large loaf but lop-sided in shape, the proportion here also being 
42:58. The others had the same proportion, good shape, and large 
loaves. 

It was found that excellent bread of good shape and good size could 
be made from some of the samples, and that poor bread of good shape 
and small size obtained from others. 



iQii] Experimental Work With Flours 463 

This year it was suggested that perhaps the amount of yeast used for 
a loaf of bread influenced the size and shape of the loaf, but experiments 
seem to show that neither a small nor a large amoxmt of yeast had 
any effect on the size and shape. 

A series of experiments has been started to show the effect of the 
absence of salt, or sugar, or both, on size and shape. No conclusions 
can as yet be drawn. All these experiments must be tried, using all the 
other samples also. 

It is suggested that for other work there be made an analysis of 
samples to determine the kind of salt or acid present and their effect on 
the proteid of the flour. The proportion of salts to total proteid should 
also be determined. 



A COOPERATIVE KITCHEN. 
Blanche McNeeney. 

In Carthage, Missouri, there was an energetic woman; there was 
the approaching heat of summer; and there was the anticipation of 
many pleasures cut short by the ever-present problem of keeping peace 
in the family by having meals on time. The energetic w^oman sug- 
gested to her friends of the neighborhood that they try an experiment. 
She proposed the "cooperative kitchen" as an agreeable and easy way 
of solving the food and servant question for the summer months. 

The plan evolved and tried with success was as follows: A vacant 
house in the neighborhood was rented for four months, and a woman 
of ability found who would act as general manager and overseer of 
the servants. The house was a large, cheerful, old fashioned, colonial 
house with a huge yard filled with large oak shade trees, and with a 
very attractive veranda on two sides. The attractiveness of this 
spot increased the pleasure of those who might arrive before the meals, 
or of any who wished to remain afterward. 

The whole first floor was given over to the dining room and kitchen. 
The second floor furnished quarters for the manager and her family, 
while the third floor was devoted to servant's quarters. Later, when 
it was made sure that the plan was to succeed, and the "kitchen" 
was to continue through the winter months, the extra rooms were 
rented to school teachers. This, of course, was a great accommodation 
to the teachers and a great help to the prosperity of the "kitchen." 

The original plan had been to include only the families within a 
radius of a block, but as time passed and the success of the scheme 
was assured, some bachelors and teachers applied for places. Although 
the house was located some blocks from the business section, it was 
very convenient to the car-line. 

Each family having membership in this "kitchen" was to furnish 
its own table, table linen, silver, and any delicacies, such as preserves, 
jellies, etc., which give the meal an individual and homelike charac- 
ter. The rooms were large and the distance between the tables was 
suflScient to insure privacy of conversation if the voices were kept com- 

464 



igii] A Cooperative Kitchen 465 

paratively low. The bachelor's table was fitted out by the manager 
— the men gladly paying for the necessary equipment. 

It is not so difficult a matter to keep servants in such an establish- 
ment as in a private home, since the wages are good, there are several 
servants, and no chance for lonesomeness, and, although the hours 
may be long, every servant has two hours a day off duty, and a half 
day every other week. There are two cooks, a head cook and her 
assistant, a dishwasher, and the waitresses who belong to the regular 
corps of the "kitchen." On alternate Sunday afternoons the wait- 
resses are given a vacation and the children are allowed to assist the 
manager in serving the lunch for that evening. 

The manager is a woman of much abihty who understands the 
scientific value of food. She prepares the menu, purchases the gro- 
ceries, buying them in large quantities which of course lessens the price, 
and with the assistance of a board, composed of members of the 
"kitchen," attends to the financial problems of the establishment. 

The scheme of these Carthagenians is, perhaps, not entirely practical 
for those families -^ith small children, imless the baby can be left with 
the nurse while the mother is gone. The nurse imder such circmn- 
stances may take her meal later. 

The "kitchen" has now been in working order for two years. The 
summer months are by far the most prosperous. Of late, the member- 
ship has been decreasing, due, perhaps, to the home instinct which 
prevails in most men. A business man usually prefers the quiet 
seclusion of the family dining room, and the more delicate dishes pre- 
pared to please him, to the large room with many tables and the com- 
paratively unappetizing dishes prepared in large quantities. The 
first evil could be done away with by renting a whole dining-room, but 
the people who have this "kitchen" in charge are of moderate means 
and one object in the plan was to lessen expense. In such a place as 
the "kitchen," however, the greatest amount of skill and the most 
careful supervdsion will not suffice to keep down the gradual tendency 
toward the regular boarding-house style. 

The financial side of the problem has worked out in a manner entirely 
satisfactory to all concerned. Each adult member pays $3.50 a week, 
and a half price rate is given to children between two and seven years 
of age, and to family servants who do not require service. The follow- 
ing table of incomes and expenses for January, 1910, will fumishavery 
good idea of the finances. This month was an exceedingly trying one 
and expenses and incomes barely balance. 



466 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

*Income and Expenses, January. 

Income. Outgo. 

Membership dues $700.00 Servants $134.00 

Rent for two rooms 15 .00 Manager's salary 35 00 

Guests at $0. 25 per meal 80 . 00 Rent 40 . 00 

Light, heat, ice 38 . 00 

Two telephones 2. so 

Meat 163 . 00 

Milk and cream 64 . 00 

Groceries 307 . 50 

Incidentals 5 . 75 

Cash on hand, February i . . . . 4- 25 



$795.00 
* I am indebted to an article by Mrs. Blair in the World's Work. 

A QUIET FACTORY LUNCH ROOM. 

Ethel R. Peyser. 

Associate Editor of "Good Housekeeping." 

It will be gratif3dng to many to know that in New York City a 
lunch room has been recently opened, devoted to the quiet and comfort 
of the employes of the factory with which it is connected. 

The Electrical Testing Laboratories on Eightieth Street and East 
End Avenue have given a large hall for dining room purposes. The 
management of this hall is under the direction of Mrs. Root, a New 
York woman who is devoting herself to the administration of factory 
lunch rooms on a scientific and practical basis. This room is about 
80 feet long by 14 feet wide, and is divided in the middle by an impro- 
vised wooden kitchen about 10 by 26 feet, with serving windows at 
each end (so that both halves of the dining room may be served simul- 
taneously). It has a door leading into the passage-way which is 
on one side of the room and which permits of egress at either end. The 
women employes are seated in that part of the room nearest the exit 
and the men are placed at the further side beyond the kitchen, the 
men and not the girls having to take the longer walk. This is but one 
of the many evidences of the thoughtful management which has assured 
the success of this undertaking. 

There are two rows of eight tables in each division of the room, 
with chairs for five persons each, one end of each table being drawn 
close to the wall. The tables are rectangular, of polished golden oak, 



igii] A Quiet Factory Lunch Room 467 

and are furnished with plated silver, glassware of good quality, bottles 
of tomato catchup, Worcestershire sauce, bread, butter, a water bottle, 
and paper napkins. 

The employes have 30 minutes for lunch and are served in two 30- 
minute relays. Generally 80 people and sometimes more use the 
room, so that 40 people, 20 in each part of the hall, are waited upon 
at the same time and served noiselessly and with clockwork precision 
with the regular dinner in less than 15 minutes by but two waitresses, 
while Mrs. Root and her assistant remain in the kitchen. The ques- 
tion naturally arises: How can this work be done so quietly and so 
quickly? How are noise and confusion eliminated? The answer is 
this: There is no long bothersome menu hanging on a remote wall 
to be studied by a crowd of hungry workers. Each employe has a 
regular seat assigned to which he unhurriedly goes. One plate con- 
taining the roast and vegetable is promptly placed before each one 
and a choice is given of beverage and dessert. This arrangement 
necessitates but two trips for the waitress who does her work noise- 
lessly and rapidly on rubber heels. What is looked upon in this room 
as the greatest of faults is the clattering of dishes and this always 
provokes the condemnation of Mrs. Root. 

It is, therefore, very nearly like a home dining-room except that 
there is a choice of three desserts (stewed prunes always being the 
available third choice). And it is furthermore like a home meal be- 
cause any one can have a dairy lunch consisting of a bowl of milk 
with bread and butter, instead of the roast and vegetable. The rest- 
ful quiet can not be overestimated and is as much appreciated as is 
the daily menu and its careful preparation. The director does all 
the cooking with the assistance of one helper, and the men are espe- 
cially appreciative of the excellent pies, cakes, and bread. Below is a 
week's menu which is quite typical, except that soup is added in the 
winter. 

Monday. — Bread, butter, roast beef , baked potatoes ; blackberry or 
custard pie, or prunes; tea, cofifee, milk, or cocoa. 

Tuesday. — Bread, butter, meat stew; boiled rice, fruit jelly, 
bananas, or prunes; tea, coffee, milk, or cocoa. 

Wednesday. — Bread, butter, roast lamb, baked potatoes; strawber- 
ries, bananas, or prunes; tea, coffee, milk, or cocoa. 

Thursday. — Bread, butter, roast veal (with dressing) boiled pota- 
toes in jackets; chocolate pudding with cream, preserved peaches, or 
prunes; tea, coffee, milk, or cocoa. 



468 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Friday. — Bread, butter, fried cod, baked potatoes; ice cream, pre- 
serves, or stewed prunes; tea, coffee, milk, or cocoa. 

No meal is served on Saturday as the factory closes at noon. 

This tabulation speaks for itself. In regard to dietary values and 
general attractiveness a nice balance is maintained and meets with 
the approval of all. 

Chicken and turkey are sometimes served when market conditions 
permit. 

The kitchen is very small but it has the advantage of saving unnec- 
essary steps. It is managed according to thorough scientific, eco- 
nomic, and hygienic methods. Towels and dishes, in fact all utensils, 
are sterilized, dust traps are much in evidence, and the latest labor- 
saving devices (electric ice cream freezers, etc.) are employed. 

At the last Lake Placid Conference of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association, Mrs. Dewey said, "Food served 10 minutes from 
the fire to the table is often spoiled. To come promptly to meals at 
a fixed hour not only insures food at its best but also preserves family 
life. To have perfect food one must eat in the kitchen." The first 
condition stated by Mrs. Dewey, that of "promptness," is fulfilled 
in this factory by calling the employes by a system of telephone 
signals. 

The second condition, that of perfect or hot food, is fulfilled by the 
location of the kitchen in the very centre of the dining room. 

The following notice is very indicative of the courtesy and the 
regard shown throughout the factory and lunch room, the authorities 
actually assuming the r61e of the "gracious host." 

NOTICE. 

Because of the poor and inadequate lunch facilities available in this neighborhood, 
which results in a great deal of time being wasted, the Company has arranged to 
serve a simple plain lunch to all its regular, permanent employes. 

On and after January 13, 1910, lunch will be served in the rooms provided for 
the purpose, on the southern side of the building. In a general way lunch will bo 
served in the two departments separately as follows: 

Photometrical Department and Mechanical Force ... 1 2 . 30 to i . 00 p.m. 

General Testing Department and Office 12 .45 to 1.15 p.m. 

The lunch period will therefore be strictly one-half hour long, and the hours for all 
employes will be as follows: 

8.57 a.m. to 12.30 or 12.45 p.m. 
i.oo or 1.15 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Employes who prefer to obtain their lunch elsewhere are of course at liberty to do 
so, but only 30 minutes will be allowed for that purpose. 



19 1 1] A Quiet Factory Lunch Room 469 

Each employe will have a seat assigned to himself or herself. It is requested that 
each person always use the same seat. 

It is hoped that all employes will appreciate the fact that they will virtually be 
giiesls of the Company and that the social proprieties usually observed under such 
circumstances will not be forgotten. 

When the lunch room was first started in this building the meals 
were given absolutely free of charge to all regular employes. The 
director received 25 cents per capita per diem, and was (and is now) 
guaranteed 70 "guests." In June, i9ii,when Mrs. Root's adminis- 
tration was just gaining permanence, she was cut down to 20 cents 
per capita per diem, as the company found that their expense was too 
great. At the same time each employe was requested to pay 50 
cents a week (equivalent to 10 cents daily), the factory still assuming 
the larger outlay. 

Naturally when a thing is given away the recipients are little prone 
to be dissatisfied, and while this condition existed every thing went 
well, but when the change was instituted involving the taxing of the 
employes and the diminishing of the director's allowance it was not 
a little disconcerting. However, and this certainly speaks more 
strongly than words for the quality and kind of food and service, 
the satisfaction has been just as great and there has been an increase 
rather than a decrease in the patronage of the dining-room. In 
fact the officers and manager of the factory are among the well-pleased 
patrons. 

Mrs. Root is particularly skillful in the way she prepares food, and 
her knowledge, not only of dietetics but of the needs of the tired 
worker, has caused her to be looked upon by employer and employed 
as a real God-send. 

Would that this sort of work might be done in all factories! But 
the secret of success Hes in what Mrs. Root said to the writer of this 
article, "I am not doing this primarily for money, as I earn little more 
than a stenographer's wage, but my object is really to help my brothers 
and sisters." 

She has proved, too, what can be done with a small force of assist- 
ants, in a small area, in a small space of time, with a small allow- 
ance. 



A SCORE CARD FOR EATING HOUSES. 

The following score card for eating houses is the work of a class^ 
in the department of household science in the University of Illinois 
which is studying special problems in the service of food. While 
some of the points hsted as being discredits may seem to be stated 
somewhat baldly, a critical patronage of most of the cheaper eating 
places, and many of those not so cheap, will probably serve to justify 
the suggestions here offered. 

Score Card. 

POINTS' 

I Building or Plant. 

Accessibly located; wholesome neighborhood; building in 

sanitary condition; well lighted and ventilated 20 

Discredit; 

Proximity to stable; laundry, renovating plants, etc. 

Dilapidation; absorbent walls, etc. Presence of flies; 

cockroaches; mice, etc. Direct communication with 

toilet room. All day artificial light. 

II Character of working force and conduct of business 20 

Discredit: 

Discourtesy; slovenliness ; incompetence ; dishonesty, etc. 

Bad health; evidence of skin disease, tuberculosis, etc. 

Acting as agents for laundries, clothing renovators, etc. 

III Reception and general treatment of guests 5 

Discredit: 

Lack of cloak-room facilities. 

Lack of promptness in assigning places at table. 

IV Conveniently located tables; comfortable chairs; clean hnen; 

attractive china; good silver; and well arranged table. . . 10 

^ 14. Special Problems in Connection With the Service or Food. — 
This course deals with the problems of marketing, domestic storage, 
management of menus, and utilization of waste food materials, as modi- 
fied by special conditions. Assistant Professor Van Meter. 

470 



191 1] A Score Card for Eating Houses 471 

Discredit: 

Tables crowded together; lack of separate tables for indi- 
viduals and small parties. 

Clumsy china and worn plated ware. 

Napkins in drinking glasses. 

Array of "relishes" left on table. 
V Food: 

Good quality; well prepared; reasonable variety; good com- 
bination, flavor and amount 35 

Discredit; 

Cold or luke-warm dishes that should be served hot. 
Half-melted desserts, soft butter, and wilted salads. 
Undue nimiber of side dishes. 

Rank flavor and other indications of use of inferior mate- 
rials, such as cheap baking powder, flavorings, tainted 

meats, rancid butter, etc. 
Dishes of food, such as crackers, etc., standing uncovered 

from meal to meal. 
Undue handling of food materials. 
Alternating the handling of food materials and money. 
Careless sneezing and coughing over the food. 
Serving of oleomargarine without due notification.' 
VI General Considerations. 

Reasonable relation between charges made and service 

rendered 10 

Discredit : 

Discrepancies between advertised service and service as 
actually rendered. 

Display of dummy menu cards. 

Narrow margin of time for meals. 

Permitting waiters to receive extra fees, tips, etc. 



' Tenth Annual Report of Illinois State Food Commissioner. The Oleo- 
margarine Law, page 443, Section 4. 



A LETTER TO FOOD MANUFACTURERS. 

The Department of Home Economics of the New York State College 
of Agriculture at Cornell University recently sent out the following 
letter to a number of food manufacturers: 

Dear Sir: 

Knowing that as a manufacturer you are interested in securing properly 
trained employees, we address you on a subject of great educational interest 
to us and which we believe will be of equal commercial interest to you. 

You may have observed that during the last few years considerable prog- 
ress has been made in American schools and colleges toward the training 
of women for practical efficiency. A large part of this progress has been 
accomplished in the courses usually referred to under the names of domestic 
art and domestic science. Such courses are designed mainly to prepare 
women to be efficient in their homes. But there is no reason why they 
should not be equally serviceable in preparing women to be efficient in cer- 
tain kinds of industrial money-earning work. The instruction given in 
the domestic science courses, for instance, relates particularly to food and 
it can easily be so extended as to give the pupil a thorough grounding in the 
commercial, as well as in the domestic, selection and preparation of food 
products. It is this aspect to which we wish especially to draw attention. 

Manufacturers frequently make complaints with regard to the imperfect 
training of women for industrial work and with regard to their inadequate 
interest in such work. Both the lack of training and the lack of interest are 
to be deplored. There should be a cooperation here between employer and 
educator. The educator should keep in mind the needs of industry. 
The employer should explain those needs. We hope therefore that when 
you come to answer the enclosed questions you will feel yourself free to go 
beyond them, if you so choose, and to give us whatever suggestions may 
occur to you on the general topic of the preparation of women for industrial 
and commercial life. 

(i) To how large an extent, in your factory, do you need people who are 
expert at devising recipes, at improving the mixtures of ingredients and the 
methods of cooking, at forecasting and meeting the changes in public taste, 
and, in general, at superintending the technical processes of getting your 
food products ready for the market? 

(2) What is the scale of remuneration for such work? 

(3) Are women employed by you at such work? Do you regard women 
as being competent to hold the higher technical positions in your industry? 
The management of the preparation of food has always been one of the occu- 
pations in which women have been employed in the home. Are there, in 
your opinion, good reasons why women are not suited to positions of tech- 
nical management in the preparation of food in the factory? We should 
be glad to have you answer this question very frankly. 

(4) If you had charge of the education of girls for self-support in the kind 
of work above outlined, what courses of study and practice would you lay 
out for them? Yours respectfully, 

472 



D'AVENELS "EVOLUTION OF PRIVATE EXPENDITURES 
DURING SEVEN CENTURIES." 

Helen W. Atwater. 

The Vicomte d'Avenel, a French economist and educator, has 
recently been publishing in the Revue des Deux Mondes a series of 
articles entitled The Evolution of Private Expenditures During Seven 
Centuries.^ He has collected facts from ofl5cial reports, tax-lists, 
trade, market and sumptuary regulations, and also from private me- 
moirs and especially such family budgets and accounts as have been 
preserved. Although naturally more material is available regarding 
the expenditures of kings and high nobles in the earlier periods, never- 
theless there is considerable information concerning the cost of living 
among the lesser nobles and the bourgeoisie, and not a httle regard- 
ing living conditions among all classes at different periods. The main 
purpose of the present articles is the development of a sociological 
theory, but many of the facts cited by the author are of interest to 
students of living conditions past and present. 

The first article is entitled The Leveling of Pleasures and deals 
mainly with the changes which the spread of material comforts has 
made in the relative conditions of all classes of society, the consequent 
advantages being greatest among the poor. 

Among all the changes those which affect the table have been 
of the greatest importance to the very poor, for the reason that in 
their budgets food holds an irreducible place. In the time of famine, 
it was the poor only who starved to death, A manual laborer in the 
fifteenth century spent a third of his wages for food, in the middle 
of the sixteenth, one-half, and from then until the French Revolution, 
nearly two-thirds. Nevertheless, the character of his food deterio- 
rated rather than improved; meat had practically disappeared from his 
diet by the eighteenth century. In the case of the bourgeois and the 
noble, on the contrary, the cost of food lessened from century to cen- 
tury, though the price of individual food materials varied irregularly. 

1 Revue des Deux Mondes, sth series, 51 (May 9, 1909); 54 (November 15, 1909); 
56 (March, 1910). 

473 



474 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The table of a high official under Louis XIII cost three times that of 
a man of similar income and position today. 

In spite of the large amounts which they paid for their food, the 
upper classes were neither as fastidious nor as prodigal in their daily 
eating as one would be tempted to believe. Madame de Maintenon 
considered it exorbitant that her sister-in-law wanted preserves at 
"collation," or butter at breakfast. This seems to us a little severe 
in a household employing ten servants, whose daily expenditure for 
food materials amounted to 42 francs or 3.5 francs a person. During 
the last five, or even the last two centuries, rich and poor have changed 
the character of their food, but the change has been much greater in 
the case of the poor, as is seen from the second article which deals 
with the special food materials. Whereas the discovery and circulation 
of many new materials produced merely an economy for the rich, 
it procured new pleasures for the poor. They have gained a material 
advantage in that wealth is available to them which was formerly 
out of their reach and a moral advantage in that their condition differs 
much less from that of the upper classes. 

The second article is a re\dew of the changes in the food supply of 
the French people during the last seven centuries. The popular 
impression is that the people of previous centuries were much heartier 
eaters than those of our day, but a close analysis of the facts presented 
in the various records that have come down to us does not carry out 
this idea. The great feasts, both public and private, of the earlier 
centuries and the ceremonious meals of the court and the rich nobles 
presented very long and elaborate bills-of-fare, but judging from the 
size of the silver serving dishes used on such occasions the quantities 
served each person were much smaller than is the case nowadays. 
Moreover, although many dishes were presented to each guest, it was 
not expected that he should help himself to more than a few. The 
tremendous expenditure which the court and nobles were obliged to 
keep up as regards their table was due not so much to the amount of 
food served each individual as to the enormous number of people whom 
etiquette obliged the man of means and station to admit to his table. 
Both the number of dishes served and the number of persons fed at 
princely tables were greatly reduced during the last two or three 
centuries of the monarchical regime. Further there is reason to believe 
that even at the royal tables the cooking was poor and the quality of the 
food often inferior. 

The foods served in those days, though they may bear the same 



igii] "Evolution of Private Expenditures" 475 

name as those served today, differed very greatly in quality. What 
is ordinarily knowTi as bread today, that is, bread made from fine 
wheat flour, was procurable in France only by the very rich up to the 
time of the French Revolution. Under Louis XV, it was made only 
by certain bakers who brought it to Paris only two days in the week. 
Today, on the other hand, almost every French family can get the 
fine wheat bread fresh every day. Beef and veal are today entirely 
different substances from what they were in previous centuries, as 
regards quality. Although the price of the animal per head has risen 
since the Middle Ages, the weight of the carcasses has more than dou- 
bled and there is no comparison between the number of cattle specially 
bred for the table today and those of earlier centuries. In fact the 
meat cattle of previous centuries were hardly more than wild cattle, 
and at the close of the old regime even this inferior meat was scarcer 
and dearer than during the Middle Ages. Lard, tallow, etc., two 
centuries ago were too expensive to be commonly used in cooking. 
It is only within the last fifty or sixty years that French cattle have 
been specially bred for food in any quantity, while the development 
of the art of slaughtering on a large scale is of even later date. 

Although owing to the fasts prescribed by the church fish was more 
commonly eaten than at present, the kinds of fish were very few. 
Because of the poor transportation, good fresh fish was rare except 
at the seashore and on a few rivers. When it reached other parts 
of the country it was in such a condition that it would hardly pass for 
edible today, consequently salt fish was almost the only kind available 
and that was crudely salted. The maritime fisheries which are now 
so important an industry in France have doubled in importance during 
the last forty years and have completely changed the kind and char- 
acter of the salted fish. The large private lakes or ponds maintained 
by the wealthy for a supply of fresh water fish were frequently leased 
at prices which show that the cost of such fish must have been almost 
prohibitive, except among the well-to-do. 

Poultry has also changed in character and table quality. New 
varieties have been introduced, the art of fattening has been very 
greatly improved, and prices have fallen considerably. 

The price of dairy products has not changed so greatly in the sum- 
mer season, but the difference between winter and summer prices is 
much less than in former years. Until the last century, fresh butter 
was practically prohibitive in price during the winter. Under Louis 
XIV, butter from Vanvres which was considered best, and was almost 



476 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

the only kind to be obtained sweet, cost 10 francs per kilo and it was 
only toward the end of the eighteenth century that dairymen in other 
parts of France learned how to make butter of equally good quality. 
The varieties of cheeses have greatly increased during the last century. 
Brie was practically the only one of the now famous kinds known in 
the fifteenth century. Many of those famous in the sixteenth century 
are now unknown while Roquefort, Pont-l'Eveque, etc., are of recent 
origin. 

Out-of-season fruits, although known to a certain extent in the six- 
teenth century, brought such tremendous prices that they were avail- 
able only to the very wealthy. It is only within the last fifty or seventy- 
five years that the art of forcing vegetables and small fruits under 
glass has been developed. The number of common vegetables has 
been very greatly increased during the last two or three hundred years. 
Beans, asparagus, melons, cauhflower, salsify, tomatoes, beets, peas 
have all been introduced since the sixteenth century. The greatest 
evolution in the matter of vegetables is due to the potato. This was 
accepted in France even more reluctantly than in most other countries 
of Europe, but the annual crop in 181 5 had reached 30 million quintals 
and today amounts to 120 million. Rice was a rarity and luxury 
in France, even in the eighteenth century, and cost from 2 to 3 francs 
a kilo whereas today it has fallen to 75 centimes a kilo for the poorer 
qualities. In the sixteenth century the first attempt was made to 
cultivate strawberries in the garden. This industry has grown tre- 
mendously until today a veritable army of special workmen are re- 
quired to pick the berries. Oranges cost 5 francs a piece in the four- 
teenth century and pomegranates 10 francs each. The consumption 
of oranges in France has tripled in the last twenty-five years. The 
importation of bananas has grown enormously during the same period. 

The wines have changed character and origin; whereas formerly 
they were grown in any fairly favorable locality, they now tend more 
and more to be produced only in the south of France. Formerly 
very httle wine was bottled and consequently much was wasted 
through deterioration in the casks The good wines have not greatly 
increased in price but ordinary wines have become much cheaper. 
Of course fortifying, etc., is more usual now. When tea was first intro- 
duced in 1648 it cost from 20 to 30 francs a kilo. It was boiled rather 
than infused and ordinarily drunk with equal parts of milk. Cocoa 
which was introduced by Spaniards in 1520 was early considered as a 
drug, opinion differing as to whether it was dangerous or beneficial. 



iQii] "Evolution of Private Expenditures^^ ^yy 

Coffee introduced in the seventeenth century rapidly became popular. 
Its price has decreased and the amount consumed has increased 
steadily. 

The third article in the series deals with the history of table service 
and cooking and incidentally with table manners. In 1500, we are 
told, Frenchmen of good breeding, hke the Gauls at the time of 
the Roman conquest, ate with their fingers, drank, in due order of 
precedence, from a common goblet, and cut their food with the knives 
they wore in their girdles. Later a two-handled dish was provided 
for each couple and was considered a great mark of refinement. In 
1763 an English traveler remarked that each Frenchman had his own 
cup at an inn table and not one shared by a dozen dirty mouths as in 
England. Among the poorer people, however, all drank out of the 
common pitcher. Forks were unknown until about 1650, and it was 
considered elegant to eat with three fingers, and not to dip them into the 
dish beyond the second joints. Another point of etiquette was for 
all who were to share the meal to wash their hands in each other's 
presence just before eating ''whether this was necessary or not." Saint 
Simon speaks of the man who invented the modern form of fork as a 
person of "redoubtable cleanliness." Inventories of the property 
of kings and nobles show large amounts of gold and silver dishes, but 
these were mainly " show" or servdng pieces and included few individual 
plates or spoons. Plates were never changed between the courses of 
even the longest banquet. Often, however, a large slice of bread was 
put on the plate, and the meat or other food was served on and eaten 
with this, a fresh slice being provided for each course. Bones, fruit and 
vegetable skins, etc., were simply thrown on the floor and scrambled 
for by the dogs, or the lower servants. This custom came to be con- 
sidered inelegant among the wealthy, though it long survived among 
the lower classes, as did also the practice of using the edge of the table 
cloth as we use individual napkins. 

Where the richest used dishes of silver, people in comfortable cir- 
cumstances used some form of tin. It sometimes contained as much 
as four-fifths lead, and was occasionally melted down for bullets in a 
siege. Pewter was not made until the seventeenth century. The 
poor ate out of wooden dishes which were seldom renewed, though of 
course most difficult to clean. These cost as much as white glazed 
earthenware today. Pottery was too heax-y, expensive, and break- 
able to be practicable for table use, and until the secret of using kaolin 
in the manufacture of porcelain was discovered in the eighteenth 



478 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

century, the only fine wares were those imported from China. The 
modern processes of making cheap glazed crockery and plated silver- 
ware have been the most important factors in raising the general 
standard of table service, and both of these were inventions of the 
nineteenth century. It is said that five times as much silver is now 
annually used in France for plating alone as was used for all purposes 
two centuries ago. The use of glassware has passed through much the 
same general changes as silver. The masterpieces of the renaissance 
glass-blowers were mainly large showpieces, and what small table pieces 
were made were far too expensive for common use, even on princely 
tables, costing twice as much as the more durable wooden cups. Glass 
for windows and mirrors was also a comparatively late introduction; 
at the end of the seventeenth century there existed in Paris a company 
which set paper into house windows and was patronized mainly by the 
well-do-to. It is only within seventy-five years that such inexpensive 
glass as we now know has been produced. 

There have been many changes of taste in the matter of cooking in 
the last centuries. Some of these are more curious than significant; 
as, for instance, that in the fifteenth century eggs cooked in rose-water 
were considered a great delicacy. Probably no one fact regarding the 
cuisine of the Middle Ages seems more striking than the fondness for 
spices. They were extremely costly, pepper, the cheapest of all, 
costing seven or eight times as much as today. They were, therefore, 
accessible only to the rich, and their use was considered a mark of 
affluence and especially desirable on ceremonious occasions. At a 
banquet given in 15 14 where the total cost was 1 160 francs, the accounts 
show 711 francs to have gone for spices. Saffron and flavors 
practically unknown today were used in great quantities in all kinds 
of cooking. 

Much more important from an economic point of view than the 
change in such extreme tastes among the wealthy has been the de- 
crease in the cost of salt, sugar, oil, vinegar, etc. Our author points 
out that the reduction of the salt tax was the only result of the Revo- 
lution which directly decreased the cost of living. Under the old 
regime, not only was the tax high, but each family was obliged to 
buy so much a person whether they wished to or not. Oil has come 
into common use in France only since the introduction of cotton-seed 
and other cheap oils has brought down the price, and there has been 
an improvement in the quality of olive oil. Olive trees were formerly 



igii] "Evolution of Private Expenditures" 479 

little cviltivated in France and the oil was frequently fit only for 
burning. 

During the Middle Ages sugar was a great luxury, costing as much 
as 30 francs a kilo. In the seventeenth century, people in easy cir- 
cumstances could afford a little as a delicacy, but up to the eighteenth 
century it was sold only by pharmacists, and the use of sweet cakes, 
dragees, and other candies was a mark of wealth. The cheap method 
of refining and transporting cane sugar and the development of the beet 
sugar industry during the last half century have finally brought sugar 
and articles made from it within the reach of all. Eighty years ago 
the annual consumption in France was 2 kilos per head; it is now 16 
kilos per head, and in England 40 kilos. 

Cooking was poorly done in former times, even for the wealthy. 
Though families sent their roasts to the baker's to be cooked, the results 
were usually far from good. 

From studies of private budgets of different periods it appears 
that formerly as much or more was spent for food than today, but 
that the money brought poorer returns both in quality and in quan- 
tity. In considering the material welfare of any period the standard 
rather than the mere cost of living must be considered. There can 
be no doubt that the standard of living has risen among all classes 
but most among the poor, and that in practically every instance the 
rise has followed some improved method of production. 



SANITATION AND OTHER SIMILAR WORK IN MANILA. 

The recently published report^ of V. G. Heiser, director of health 
of the Philippine Islands, calls attention to improvements which have 
been introduced in market conditions, and gives an account of the 
Manila slaughterhouses, the work of the department of sanitation 
and transportation, the efforts made to overcome the dust nuisance 
in Manila, and the work generally along hnes of public charities and 
correction. 

As regards improvements in market conditions, food is now sold 
only from tables instead of "from the floor and filthy inclosed spaces 
under the tables," as was formerly the case. 

"The fact that fresh meat in Manila can only be sold in a public 
market building has made its inspection effective and has given 
Manila an advantage which is enjoyed in only a few of the leading 
cities of the world, . . . 

"These markets were freed from all inclosures and contrivances 
in which unsuitable food or filth might be hidden from view and 
concealed; the venders of the same class of goods were assigned to 
certain sections of the market, and were required to expose all food 
supplies on tables or pans and not on the floor; drains and receptacles 
were provided for refuse; the markets were well lighted; suitable 
tables, pans, racks, etc., were installed, and the premises, tables, 
and all utensils kept in a clean and sanitary condition. Wares not 
properly classified as food supplies were excluded from the market." 

Market sheds and other improvements of a similar character have 
also been introduced. 

"The question of the food supply of the inhabitants of a city is 
always an important one, and deserves close and careful study from 
many points of view, some of which pertain to the proper inspection 
of food so that no diseased, unsound, or unfit food is sold or con- 
sumed; the manner of handUng and exposing food for sale; adequate 
and clean market buildings and fixtures; a proper and just system 
of assignment of space and privileges of vendors, whereby all dealers 

1 Ann. Rept. Bur. Health Philippine Islands, 1909, pp. 29-36. 

480 



191 1] Sanitation Work in Manila 481 

or producers of food supplies can have ready access to the pubhc 
to market their wares; and a proper supervision and control of the 
marketing of food supplies in so much as can be done to prevent 
the fostering of special privileges and the biiilding up of monopolies 
in the sale of certain food supplies. 

"The welfare of the people in any community demands that they 
should be protected from dealers of unwholesome food, should not 
pay imusual or exorbitant prices for food, and should be able to 
procure their food supplies within the limits of their own community. 

"The markets of Manila have undergone a great transformation 
since the advent of Americanism, and when the plans now under 
contemplation are carried out, Manila may safely place these insti- 
tutions in her list of attractions." 

The department of sanitation and transportation "is under control 
of the city of Manila and is charged with the responsibiUties of street 
sprinkHng and flushing, street sweeping and gutter cleaning; the 
collection and disposal of garbage, house refuse, and dead animals; 
the filHng of lowlands; the collection and disposal of night soil and 
pubUc closets; the administration of the city pound; the sanitary 
care of markets and slaughterhouses ; the transportation of meat ; 
the care and administration of cemeteries; the maintenance and 
development of parks, trees and plant nurseries; the care of city 
walls; the improvement of public grounds; the administration of all 
land transportation of the city, and the service of this character for 
the Insular Government. 

"The collection and disposal of garbage, house refuse, and dead 
animals is an important branch of the work with which this depart- 
ment is charged, and is carried on principally between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
The garbage and refuse from dwellings, factories, shops, stables and 
similar places, are collected by carts which pass along regular itiner- 
aries, collecting the garbage and refuse placed on the curbing in 
separate receptacles as required by city ordinances. The material 
suitable for filling in lowlands is applied to that purpose, and the 
garbage, slops, and organic matter find their way to one of the two 
city crematories. 

"Dead animals weighing thirty pounds or less are considered 
garbage and are deposited in the regular garbage receptacles. Those 
of greater weight are collected in wagons specially designed and 
constructed for this purpose, and are either burned or sold to fac- 
tories to be manufactured into trade products. 



482 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

''Night soil is collected by odorless excavators from vaults and 
cesspools, and by the pail conservancy system from premises where 
there are no closet systems installed The collections are emptied 
into tanks on the steam barge Pluto and carried out to sea. . . . 

''The pail conservancy system will have to be maintained in the 
districts of light material even after the new sewer system [now being 
introduced] is in full working operation, both in the public closets 
and as a domiciliary sanitary measure. 

"The pail concervancy system as it is operated in Manilla is a 
clearly efl&cient method of sanitation second only to the water-closet 
system, and might well be adopted in many towns in the United States 
where earth closets are now permitted." 

The efforts which have been made for dust suppression are as well 
worthy the attention of sanitary engineers elsewhere as in the Philip- 
pines. 

' ' Much has been done in Manila during the past few years to over- 
come the dust nuisance. The department of sanitation and trans- 
portation of the city government has established a very thorough 
system of street sprinkling for the dry season. Last year this office 
issued a circular which was put into force by the executive secretary 
in all the public buildings of Manila, in which attention was called 
to the habit that had formerly prevailed of sweeping the floors with- 
out dust precautions while the employees were still at their desks, 
and the dangers thereof, and attention was invited to the fact that 
by reason of the prevalence of tuberculosis in the Philippines and of 
the careless habits in spitting, the dust of offices often became laden 
with the deadly tubercular bacilli which might enter the system by 
means of the inspired air. The circular enjoined that there should 
be no more dry sweeping in government buildings, and required that 
floors should be thoroughly sprinkled with wet sawdust before they 
were swept, and that they be not disturbed as long as there were any 
employees at their desks. On account of the fact that this new 
method of sweeping was not in accordance with the former custom, 
some opposition to it developed, but this finally yielded to persuasion, 
and now the method has been quite generally adopted in public 
buildings. 

"This system of dust suppression is recommended to housekeepers 
and to stores, hotels, and other places where dust continues to be a 
source of danger." 



INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES GIVING 
INSTRUCTION IN HOME ECONOMICS. 

Marie T. Spethmann. 

Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

(Concluded from the June Number.) 

n. INSTITUTIONS FOR NEGROES. 
I. Institutions Receiving Aid from the Federal Government. 



STATE OR 
TERKITORY. 


NAME OP INSTITUTION. 


LOCATION. 


Alabama i 

Arkansas 

Delaware 


Ag. and M. College for Negroes 
Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute 
Branch Normal College 
State College for Colored Students 


Normal 

Tuskegee Institute 
Pine Bluff 
Dover 


Florida 


Florida Ag. and M. College for Negroes 
Georgia State Industrial College 
Kentucky Normal and Industrial Institute 
So. Univ. and Agr. and M. College 


Tallahassee 


Georgia 




Kentucky 

Louisiana 


Frankfort 
New Orleans 


Maryland 

Mississippi 

Missouri 

Oklahoma 

So. Carolina. . ^ 

Texas 


Princess Anne Academy 

Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College 

Lincoln Institute 

Agricultural and Normal University 

Colored Normal, Industrial, Ag. and M. 


Princess Anne 
Alcorn 

Jefferson City 
Langston 


College of South Carohna 
Prairie View State Nor. and Ind. College 
Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute 
West Virginia Colored'Institute 


Orangeburg 
Prairie View 


Virginia 

West Virginia . . . 


Hampton 
Institute 



483 



484 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

2. Instituhons not Receiving Aid From the Federal Govermnent. 



STATE OR 


NAME or msTinmoN. 


LOCATION. 


TERKITORY. 






r 


Alabama Industrial School 


Birmingham 




Calhoun Colored School 


Calhoun 


Alabama ' 


Centerville Industrial Institute 


Centerville 


Corona Industrial Institute 


Corona 




Kowaliga School 


Kowaliga 




Talladega College 


Talladega 


Arkansas i 


Lincoln High School 


Fort Smith 


M.W.Gibbs High School 


Little Rock 


District of f 
Columbia . . \ 


Howard University 


Washington 


Armstrong Manual Training School 


Washington 


Florida 


Fessenden Academy 


Fessenden 




Spehnan Seminary 


Atlanta 




Paine College 


Augusta 


Georgia ' 


Dorchester Academy 


Mcintosh 


Negro Normal and Industrial School 






(Private) 


Social Circle 




Clark University 


South Atlanta 


Indiana f 


High School 


Evansville 


High School 


Madison 


Kentucky i 


Colored High School 


Louisville 


Colored High School 


Owensboro 




Sabine Industrial Institute 


Converse 


Louisiana 


Straight University 


New Orleans 




New Orleans University 


New Orleans, 


Maryland .... 


Laurel Agr. and Industrial Institute 


Laurel 


Colored Industrial Grammar School 


Sahsbury 




Normal and Agricultural Institute 


Sandy Spring 




Mt. Hermon Seminary 


CHnton 


Mississippi ... 1 


Rust University 


Holly Springs 


Jackson College 


Jackson 




Tougaloo University 


Tougaloo 




High School 


Chillicothe 


Missouri 


High School 


Hannibal 




Lincoln High School 


Kansas City 


New Jersey . . . 


Ml. Tg. and Ind. School for Colored Youth 


Bordentown 




State Colored Normal School 


Eli/.abeth City 




J. K. Brick Agr. Indus, and Normal School 


Enfield 




State Colored Normal School 


Fayetteville 


North Caro- 


Henderson Normal Institute (Private) 


Henderson 


lina 


Shaw University 


Raleigh 




Saint Augustine's School 


Raleigh 




State Normal and Industrial School 


Winston-Salem 




Waters Normal Institute (Private) 


Winton 



igiij 



Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



485 



STATE OR 
TERSITORY. 


NAME OP DJSTITDnON. 


LOCATION. 




Institute for Colored Youth 




Cheney 


Pennsylvania • 


1 Downington Industrial and Agr. 


School 


Downington 




! Avery College Training School 




Pittsburg 




Brainerd Institute 




Chester 




Avery Normal Institute 




Charleston 


South Caro- 


Penn. Normal Industrial and Agr. 


School 


Frogmore P. 0. 


lina 


Sterling Industrial College 




Greenville 




Claflin University 




Orangeburg 




Lane College 




Jackson 


Tennessee . . . . ■ 


Knorville College 




Knoxville 




Fisk University 




Nashville 




Samuel Huston College 




Austin 


Texas 


Tillotson College 




Austin 




Bishop College 




Marshall 




Christiansburg Industrial Institute 




Cambria 




, Temperance, Ind. and Coll. Institute 


Claremont 




Dinwiddle Agr. and Ind. School 




Dinwiddle 




St. Paul Normal and Industrial School 


Lawrenceville 




Virginia Collegiate and Industrial Institute 


Lynchburg 


Virginia 


Manassas Ind. School for Colored Youths 


Manassas 




Norfolk Mission College 




Norfolk 




Virginia Normal and Industrial Institute 


Petersburg 




Union Industrial Academy 




Port Conway 




Hartshorn Memorial College 




Richmond 




^ Colored High School 




Richmond 


West Virginia ' 


' Bluefield Colored Institute 




Bluefield 


Storer College 




Harper's Ferry 



III. INSTITUTIONS FOR INDIANS. 



STATE. 


NAME OF INSTITUTION. 


LOCATION. 




Blackwater Day School 


Blackwater 




Navajo Training School 


Fort Defiance 




Moqui Indian Training School 


Keams Canon 




Indian Training School 


Leupp 




Fort Mohave Indian School 


Mohave City 


Arizona 


Colorado River Indian School 


Parker 


Phoenix Indian School 


Phoenix 




St. John's Mission School 


Phoenix 




Pima Indian Training and Industrial 






School 


Sacaton 




Tolchaco Industrial School 


Tolchaco 




Havasupai Indian School 


Supai 



486 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



STATE. 


NAME OP INSTITUTION. 


LOCATION. 


r 


Methodist Industrial School (for Mexican 






girls) 


Tucson 


Ari^/^ria r 


Truxton Canon Indian School 


Valentine 


XXX UAJILCL fv 


Tucson Day School 


Tucson 




Fort Apache Indian Training School 


Whiteriver 




Fort Yuma Indian Training School 


Yuma 




St. Boniface's Industrial School 


Banning 




Cahuilla Day School 


Cahuilla 




Round Valley Indian School 


Covelo 




Indian Industrial School 


Fort Bidwell 


California i 


Industrial Training School 


Greenville 




Capitan Grande School 


Lakeside 




Pala Indian Day School 


Pala 




Volcan Day School 


Santa Ysabel 




Soboba Indian Day School 


San Jacinto 




La Jolla Indian Training School 


Soboyame 


Colorado I 


U. S. Indian School 


Grand Junction 




Indian Training School 


Navajo Springs 




Fort Lapwai Indian School 


Lapwai 


Idaho \ 


Fort Hall Indian Training and Industrial 






School 


Rossfork 


Kansas 


Haskell Institute 


Lawrence 


Michigan ? 


U. S. Indian Training School 


Bay Mills 


Mount Pleasant School 


Mount Pleasant 




Cass Lake Indian School 


Cass Lake 




Nett Lake School 


Nett Lake 


Minnesota.. . . . i 


Pipestone Indian Training School 


Pipestone 




U. S. Indian Training School 


Red Lake 




Vermillion Lake Indian School 


Tower 




White Earth Boarding School 


White Earth 




Holy Family Mission 


Family 




Fort Belknap Indian Training and 




^^nntana i 


Industrial School 


Harlem 


XVXVJULCXlXa ..... K 


Poplar River Training School 


Poplar 




St. Paul's Mission 


St. Paul's 




St. Xavier's Mission 


St. Xavier 


NpHra^Uft ' 


Genoa Indian Industrial School 


Genoa 


X ^ v L^i aai^cfc . .... V 


Santee Normal Training School 


Santee 




Fort McDermitt Indian School 


McDermitt 




Western Shoshone Indian School 


Owyhee 


Nevada i 


U.S. Walker River Indian Training 






School 


Schurz 




Carson Indian Training School 


Stewart 




Nevada Boarding School 


Wadsworth 



igii] Institutions Giving Courses in Home Economics 



487 



STATE. 


NAME OF INSTITUTION. 


LOCATION. 




U. S. Indian School 


Albuquerque 




Zuni Indian Boarding School 


Blackrock 




1 Isleta Day School 


Isleta 




Jewett Navajo School 


Liberty 


New Mexico . . • 


Mescalero Indian Industrial School 


Mescalero 




Rehoboth Mission School 


Rehoboth 




Indian Industrial School 


Santa Fe 




St. Catherine's Industrial School 


Santa Fe 




Government Indian Day School 


Zuni 


North Carolina 


Indian Industrial School 


Cherokee 




No. 2 Day School 


Belcourt 




No. 4 Day School 


Belcourt 




Fort Berthold Industrial School 


Elbowoods, via 
Bismarck 


North Dakota ^ 


Indian Industrial School 

U. S. Standing Rock Indian Training 


Fort Totten 




School 


Fort Yates 




No. 3 Day School (Indian) 


Laureat 




Wahpeton Indian School 


Wahpeton 




U.S. Kiowa Indian Training School 


Anadarko 




Arapaho City Schools 


Arapaho 




Chilocco Indian School 


Chilocco 




Cheyenne and Arapaho Indian Industrial 






School 


DarUngton 




Pawnee Indian Training School 


Pawnee 




Red Moon Indian School 


Hammon 




Otoe Boarding School 


Otoe 


Oklahoma 


Osage Boarding School 


Pawhuska 




St. Mary's Academy Sacred Heart 


Sacred Heart 




Shawnee Indian School 


Shawnee 




Sac and Fox Indian Industrial School 


Stroud, RFD 2 




Murrow Indian Orphans' Home 


Unchucka 




Kaw Indian Training and Industrial 






School 


Washunga 




Ponca Indian Training School 


Whiteagle 




Seneca Indian School, Quapaw Agency 


Wyandotte 




Salem Indian School 


Chemawa 


Oregon 1 


Klamath Indian Training School 


Klamath Agency 


Umatilla Indian Industrial School 


Pendleton 




^^ Warm Springs Indian School 


Warmspring 


Pennsylvania. . . 


. U. S. Indian School 


Carlisle 




No. 24 Day School 


Allen 




No. 8 Indian Day School 


Cherry Creek 


South Dakota. 


Cheyenne River Boarding School 


Cheyenne Agency 




1 Crow Creek School 


Crow Creek 




Red Leaf Day School 


Cutmeat 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



STATE. 


NAME or INSTITUTION. 


LOCATION. 




Cutmeat Day School 


Cutmeat 




Upper Cutmeat Day School 


Cutmeat 




No. 2 Day School 


Dupree 




Indian School 


Flandreau 




No. i8 Day School 


Kyle 




No. 19 Day School 


Kyle 




No. 23 Day School 


Kyle 




No. 29 Day School 


Kyle 




No. 14 Day School 


Lacreek 




Lower Brule Boarding School 


Lower Brule 




No. 10 Day School 


Manderson 




No. 1 2 Day School 


Manderson 




Black Pipe Day School 


Norris 




Com Creek Indian Day School 


Norris 


South Dakota « 


Oahe Industrial School 


Oahe, near Pierre 




No. 3 Day School 


Pine Ridge 




Indian Day School No. 5 


Pine Ridge 




No. 6 Day School 


Pine Ridge 




No. 25 Day School 


Pine Ridge 




No. 26 Day School 


Pine Ridge 




No. 15 U. S. Indian Day School 


Porcupine 




Rapid City Indian School 


Rapid City 




Rosebud Boarding School 


Rosebud 




"He-Dog's Camp School" 


Rosebud 




Sisseton Boarding School 


Sisseton 




Indian Training School 


Springfield 




Immaculate Conception School 


Stephan 




No. 7 Day School 


White Horse 




White Thunder Day School 


Wood 




Uintah Boarding School 


Whiterocks 




Chehalis High School 


ChehaUs 




U. S. Colville Indian Training School 


Fort Spokane, 


Washington... i 


Quileute Day School 


Miles P. 0. 
La Push 




Neah Bay Indian School 


Neah Bay 




Tulalip Training School 


Tulalip 




U. S. La Pointe Indian Training School 


Ashland 




Academy of St. Joseph 


Green Bay 




Hayward Training School 


Hayward 


Wisconsin i 


Oneida Indian School 

Lac Courte Oreilles Government Day 


Oneida 




School 


Reserve 




Tomah Indian Industrial School 


Tomah 




Wittenberg Boarding School 


Wittenberg 


Wvominc f 


St. Stephens Mission Boarding School 


St. Stephens 



Shoshone Indian Mission School 



Wind River 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE. 

October i, 191 i. 
Foods and Cookery. 

Bedouin Desert Bread. J. D. Whiting. Daily Consular and Trade Rpts., 
U. S., 14, pp. 630H531. 

Dumboy, the National Dish of Liberia. G. N. Collins. Nat. Geog. Mag., 
22, pp. 84-88; Chem. Abs., May 20, p. 1803. 

Iroquois Uses of Maize and Other Food Plants. A. C. Parker. N. Y. State 
Mus., Bull. 144, p. 119. 

Fruit Juices for Hot Weather. M. R. Conover. Garden Mag., July, p. 361. 
Recipes. 

Bread. R. K. Duncan. Harpers, May, p. 854. 

The Ban on Colored Japanese Tea. Lit Digest, July 15. Translations from 
Japanese newspapers. 

Strange Kinds of Sugars. Lit. Digest, July i, p. 17. Review of an article by L. 
Lodian, in International Confectioner. 

Lacto — A New and Healthful Frozen Dairy Product. M. Mortenson and J. 
Gordon. Iowa Expt. Sta., Bull. 118. Directions for making an ice-cream-like 
mixture from fermented milk, eggs, sugar, and flavoring material. 

Saccharin in Food. U. S. Food Inspection Decision 135. Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Chem., June, 191 1, p. 438. A copy of the decision and comments on the use 
of saccharin. 

The Preservation of Eggs. R. Berger. Jour. Indits. and Eng. Chem., July, 
pp. 493-495- 

The EfiFect of Low Temperatures on Ground Chicken Meat. H. W. Houghton. 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., July, pp. 497-505. 

The Comparative Rate of Decomposition in Drawn and Undrawn Market Poul- 
try. M. E. Pennington. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. Chem., Circ. 70. 

The Determinations of Total Solids in Milk. Paul Poetschke. Jour. Indus, 
and Eng. Chem., June, 191 1, pp. 405-408. 

The Estimation of Lime and Potash in the Ash of Cereals. F. Thompson and 
H. H. Morgan, Jr. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., June, 191 1, pp. 398-400. 

The Detection of Sahcylic Acid. H. C. Sherman and A. Gross. Jour. Indus, 
and Eng. Chem., July, pp. 492-493. 

Development of the Sugar Industry. August von Wachtel. Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Chem., May, 1911, pp. 335-339- A very interesting historical review. 

Principles of Jelly-Making. N. E. Goldthwaite. Univ. of III., Dept. Household 
Science, Bulls. 8, 7, 19. 

489 



49© The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Nutrition. 

Food Customs and Diet in American Homes. C. F. Langworthy. U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Office Exp. Stas.. Circ. no. 

Investigations on Bengali Jail Dietaries with some Observations on the Influence 
of Dietary on the Physical Development and Well-being of the People of Bengal. 
Chem. Abs., May lo, p. 1642. 

Rice as a Food. H. Aron and F. Hocson. Biochem. Zeit., 32, pp. 189-203; 
Chem. Ahs., August 20, p. 2676. Investigations on the nitrogen and phosphorus 
metaboUsm after feeding with rice and other foods, chiefly vegetable. 

Practical Experiences with Beri-beri and Unpolished Rice in the Phihppines. 
Victor G. Heiser. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., April 29, pp. 1237-1238. 

Yeast as a Food Product and Its Utihzation in the Human Organism. W. 
Voeltz and A. Baudrexel. Chem. Ahs., May 10, p. 1645. 

Studies on Water Drinking. IV. The Excretion of Chlorids Following Copious 
Water Drinking Between Meals. S. A. Rulon and P. B. Hawk. Arch. Intern. 
Med., 7, pp. 536-549- 

Studies on Water Drinking V. Intestinal Putrefaction During Copious and Mod- 
erate Water Drinking with Meals. W. M. Hattren and P. B. Hawk. Arch. Intern. 
Med., 7, pp. 610-623. 

Nutrition Investigations on the Carbohydrates of Lichens, Algae, and Related 
Substances. Mary D. Swartz. Transactions Conn. Acad. Sciences, April, pp. 
247-382 (Yale University Press). 

The Cardinal Principles for the Successful Feedihg of Infants. Thos. M.Rotch. 
Interstate Medical Journal, xvii. No. 5, 1910. 

The Bacteriology of Commercially Pasteurized and Raw Market Milk. S.H. 
Ayers and W. T. Johnson, Jr. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. Animal Industry, Bull. 
126. 

Studies in Digestion and Absorption. E. S. London. Zeit. Physiol. Chem., 
68, pp. 346-351; 378-380; Chem. Ahs., May 10, 1911, p. 1644, Studies on Dogs. 

The Specific Adaptation of the Digestive Juices. E. S. London. Zeit. Physiol. 
Chem., 68, pp. 366-370; Chem. Abs., May 20, p. 1793. 

Enterolipase. C. P. Jansen. Zeit. Physiol. Chem., 68, pp. 400-415; Chem. Abs., 
May 20, p. 1793. 

Experiments on Mount Blanc in 1910 on the Excretion of Gastric Juice at a 
very High Altitude. R. Bayeux. Compt. rend., 152, pp. 396-398; Chem. Abs., 
May 20, p. 1808. 

Metabolism in Fever. E. Grafe. Detit. Arch. Klin. Med., loi, pp. 209-250; 
Chem. Abs., May 10, 191 1, p. 1645. Carbohydrates play the most important part 
in combating fever. 

Cost of living in New Jersey. New Jersey Bur. Statistics, 1910, pp. 141-150. 

The Public Health, the Greatest of our National Assets. H. W. Wiley. Am. 
Conservation, August. The importance of proper nutrition and pure foods. 

Sanitation. 

Profitable and Fruitless Lines of Endeavor in Public Health Work. E. O. Jor- 
dan. Science, June 2, pp. 832-839. 



iQii] Bibliography of Periodicals 491 

Factory Sanitation and Efficiency. C. E. A. Winslow. Jotir. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., July, pp. 508-511. 

The Formation and Functions of Hygiene Committees for Universities. M. P. 
Ravenel and W. D. Frost. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., April 29, pp. 1 253-1 256. A 
history of the hygiene movement at the University of Wisconsin. 

Sanitary Inspection as a Profession for Women and the Preparation Required 
for It. Emily Wayland Din-widdie. Household Arts Rev., April, pp. 14-22. 

Hospital Social Service, Robt. W. Bruere. Harpers, June, pp. 31-37. 

The Hygiene of the White Lead Industry. Ahce Hamilton. Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Chem., June, 1911, pp. 422-426. A study of methods in this country and 
Europe, by the Illinois Commission in Occupational Diseases. 

The Cost of Disease. Earl Mayo. 0«//ooyfe, May 13, pp. 63-68. A comparison 
with the cost of prevention. 

Stamping Out the Plague in China. James Whitfield Bashford. Outlook, 
June 3, pp. 249-251. 

Sanitary Standards Adopted by the Joint Board of Sanitary Control for the Cloak 
and Suit Making Shops. Survey, Augiost 19, p. 735. 

The Air We Breathe in Buildings. M. Mott Smith. Science, August 4, 191 1, 
pp. 150-151. 

The Moisture in the Air We Breathe. Ross Aiken Gortner. Science, August 4, 
pp. 152-153. 

Ventilation of Sleeping Cars. Lit. Digest, July 22,^.136. Areviewof an article 
by T. R. Crowden; another abstract in Eng. News, July 6. Read originally before 
Am. Pub. Health Assn. 

House Fhes. L. O. Howard. U. S. Department Agr., Farmers' Bull. 459. 

Remedies and Preventives against Mosquitoes. L. O. Howard. U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Farmers' Bidl. 444. 

The Effect of Environment of Carbonated Beverages on Bacteria. C. C. Young 
and N. P. Sherwood. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., July, pp. 493-494. 

Soaps from Different Glycerides. Their Germicidal and Insectidal Values Alone 
and Associated with Active Agents. H. C. Hamilton. Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., July, pp. 582-586. 

Clothing. 

The Wardrobe of a Girl at Teachers College. Bessie White. Household Arts 
Rev., April, pp. 45-51. Estimates by a student in the domestic art department. 

Designs for Wool School Dresses for High School Girls. Angelica Schuyler. 
Mothers Magazine, September, 1911, p. 48. Good designs for useful school 
dresses. 

Preparing for Winter Comfort. Louise J. Stevenson. The American House- 
keeper, September, 191 1, p. 217. Suggestions for refurnishing the house. Good 
color combinations. 

A Handbook of Weaves. G. H. Oelser, Director Weaving School at Werdan. 
Trans, by S. W. Dole. Textile World Record, July, 1911, p. 461. E.xplanations 
of drawing the warp into the harness and the formation of patterns. Illustrated. 

Substantive Dyes on Cotton. Thos. Forsythe. Textile World Record, July, 
191 1, p. 499. Properties of the fastness of dyes. 



492 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Cloth Crocking. Questions and Answers Dept., Textile World Record, June, 
191 1, p. 662. An explanation of the causes of crocking by the presence of insoluble 
metallic soap in the cloth, and the remedy. 

Matt Weaves. Textile World Record, June, 191 1, p. 363. A description of 
weaves in the manufacture of grey skirting. Illustrated. 

The latest "Pure Textile Bill." Textile World Record, June, 1911, p. 301. A 
criticism of the Palmer Textile Bill in the House of Representatives. Very inter- 
esting. 

Birch Bark Art Cloth. The Housewife Fancy Work Dept, The Housewife, 
September, 191 1, p. 22. A description of articles made from it. Suggestions for 
Indian embroidery designs. 

Detection of Dyed Blacks upon Cotton Fabrics. Dr. Louis J. Matos. Tex.tle 
World Record, June, 191 1, p. 382. Tests for determining chemicals used in dyeing. 
Different blacks and their effect upon fabrics. 

Practical Embroidery Designs for Home Use. Mothers Magazine, August, 191 1, 
p. 74. Some attractive patterns for working out simple children's dresses. 

Clothing the School Child Hygienically. Alice M. Wentworth. The House- 
wife, September, 191 1, p. 13. An article on woolen underclothing and shoes for 
school wear. 

Education and Social Service. 

The Girl of Tomorrow— What the School Will Do for Her. B. R. Andrews. 
World^s Work, June, pp. 14526-14530. 

The Girl of Tomorrow and Her Education. Marguerite O. Bigelow. Crafts- 
man, June, pp. 241-249. 

The School of Yesterday and the School of Tomorrow. World's Work, June, pp. 
14434-14435 (Editorial). 

What Home Economics Has Done for Mary. Helen Louise Johnson. Harper's 
Bazaar, August, p. 366. 

What the Schools Can Do to Train Girls for Work in Department Stores. Lucinda 
W. Prince. Household Arts Rev., April, pp. 22-28. 

Equipment of Sewing and Dressmaking Laboratories, school of Household Arts, 
Teachers College. Anna M. Cooley. Household Arts Rev., April, pp. 52-59. 

The New Emphasis upon Educational Values in Household Arts for Schools. 
Frederick G. Bonser. Household Arts Rev., April, pp. 1-6. 

The Girl Graduate. Mrs. Newell DwightHillis. Outlook, July8, pp. 548-552. 
Training in Home Economics in the home after college. 

The Way Out. Robert Bruere. Woman's Home Companion, June, p. 14. 

Ideals of Progress. S. N. Patten. Survey, June 3, pp. 387-392. 

The Conservation of the Child. Earl Mayo. Outlook, Apr. 22, pp. 893-903. 

The Home Life of Working Girls. Mrs. Newell Dwight Hillis. Outlook, May 13, 
pp. 72-75. An appeal to women to add to the safety, comfort, and pleasure of 
these girls. 

Miscellaneous. 

Ellen H. Richards. Caroline L. Hunt. Good Housekeeping, July, pp. 67-70. 
Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. H. P. Talbot. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., May, 
191X, pp. 352-353- 



iQii] A Reading Course in Domestic Science 493 

The Outdoor Markets of New York. A. W. Cutler. Collier's Weekly, June 
10, p. 18. 

Porch and Garden Hospitality. Emma P. Talford and Rose Lampman. Delin- 
eator, August p. 121. 

Differences in Ice Cream Freezers. H. L. Johnson. Good Housekeeping, July, 
pp. 97-98. 

How We Test Refrigerators. Good Housekeeping, June, pp. 769-771. 

On Beds and Bedding. Lucy M. Salmon. Good Housekeeping, June, pp. 
781-782. 



A READING COURSE IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

The following course is reprinted from the Home and Education Department* 
La Folleite's Weekly: 

I. The Selection of a Home. 

(With special reference to health.) 

I. Sunlight; its benefits, and how to get it. 2. Ventilation of the House and 
Plans for Life Out-of-doors. 3. How shall we Heat our Houses? 4. How shall 
we Light our Houses? 5. How shall we get enough Moisture, and not too 
much? 6. Points on Plumbing. 

Textbook: Household Hygiene, by S. Maria Elliott, Simmons College. Pub- 
lished by the American School of Home Economics, Chicago. Price $1.50. 

II. The Furnishing of a Home, 

(With special reference to beauty.) 

I. Learning of Nature. 2. The Right Use of Materials. 3. Harmony of Color. 
4, Beauty of Form and Structure in House Furnishings; Applied Ornament. 5. 
Wall Coverings and Rugs. 6. Selecting and Framing Pictures. 

Textbook : The Furnishing of a Modest Home, by Fred. H. Daniels. Published 
by the Davis Press, Worcester, Mass. Price $1.00. 

III. The Care of A Home. 

(With special reference to economy of time.) 

I. The Important Subject of Floor Coverings. 2. The Advantages and Disad- 
vantages of Small Kitchens. 3. Dust and its Dangers. 4. Garbage and Household 
Waste. 5. New Household Devices. 

Textbooks: The Healthful Farmhouse, by Helen Dodd. Published by Whit- 
comb and Barrows, Boston. Price 60 cents. 

The Up-to-date Home, Bulletin of the American School of Economics, Chicago. 
Price 10 cents. 

Household Management, by Bertha M. Terrill. Published by the American 
School of Home Economics, Chicago. Price $1 . 50. 



494 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

IV. Providing the Daily Meals. 

(With reference to health, attractiveness and economy of labor.) 
I. Shall we buy Household Supphes in Large or Small Quantities? 2. Knowl- 
edge of Food Values an Aid to Marketing. 3. Knowledge of Food Values an Aid 
to Cooking. 4. Food for Children; — the Lunch Box. 5. Food for the Sick. 
6. The Art Side of Serving Food. 

Textbooks: Food and Diet, by Alice P. Norton, of the University of Chicago. 
Published by the American School of Home Economics, Chicago. Price $1 . 50. 
The Daily Meals of School Children by Caroline L. Hunt, Bulletin of the United 
States Bureau of Education. To be obtained from the Superintendent oj Docu- 
ments, Washington, D. C. Free. 

Additional Reference Books For Clubs Using the Outline. 

Practical Hygiene, by Charles Harrington. Published by Lea Brothers and Co., 
Philadelphia. Price $4.25. 

Sanitation in Daily Life, by Ellen H. Richards. PubHshed by Whitcomb and 
Barrows, Boston. Price 6c cents. 

Household Bacteriology, by S. Maria Elliott. Published by the American School 
of Home Economics, Chicago. Price $1 . 50. 

The Care of a House, by T. M. Clark. Published by Macmillan's. Price $1.50. 

The Art of Right Living, by Ellen H. Richards. PubHshed by Whitcomb and 
Barrows, Boston. Price 50 cents. 

The Cost of Cleanness, by Ellen H. Richards. Published by John Wiley and 
Sons, New York. Price $1.00. 

The Care and Feeding of Children, by Dr. L. E. Holt. Published by D. Appleton 
and Co., New York. Price 75 cents. 

The Fuels of the Household, by Marian White. Published by Whitcomb and 
Barrows, Boston. Price 75 cents. 

The Principles of Cookery, by Anna Barrows. Published by American School 
of Home Economics, Chicago. Price $1.50. 

joltrnal of home economics. Price $2.00. Secured by addressing the 
Secretary of the American Home Economics Association, Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Teachers College, New York. 

Articles on Household Art, by Mary and Lewis Theiss in Good Housekeeping for 
1909. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 
FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING. 

Washington, D. C, December 27-30, 1911. 

The American Home Economics Association will hold its fourth 
annual meeting at Washington, D. C, as one of the affiliated societies 
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, which 
meets in Washington December 27-30, 191 1. 

Meetings will be held at the Henry D. Cooke School, 17th Street 
and Columbia Road. Headquarters will be at Hotel Gordon, i6th 
Street between I and K Streets N. W. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 
First Vice-President of the Association is Chairman of the local 
committee. Requests for information should be addressed to him 
at U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Program. 

wednesday, december 27. 

2:30 p.m. — Meeting of Executive Committee at Hotel Gordon. 
3:30 p.m. — Meeting of Council at Hotel Gordon. 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28. 

9:30 a.m. — Convention called to order by the President, Miss Isabel 
Bevier, University of Illinois. 

Paper — Bio-chemistry in the College Curricula in Women's Col- 
leges, Miss Louise Foster, Dept. of Chemistry, Smith College. 

Paper — Metabolism Experiments, Miss Alice F. Blood, Simmons 
College. 

Paper — Some Chemical DiiTerences Between Short and Long Proc- 
ess Breads, Miss N. E. Goldthwaite, University of Illinois. 

Announcements. 

2:30 p.m. — Round Table, in charge of Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin. 

495 



496 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Topic, The Elementary Work in Preparation of Food in College 
Classes. Participated in by Miss E. C. Sprague, University of 
Chicago; Miss May B. Van Arsdale, Teachers College; Miss Catherine 
Mulligan, University of Tennessee; Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile, Kansas 
State Agricultural College. 

8:00 p.m. — Reception at Henry D. Cooke School by the Home 
Economics Association of Washington, D. C. Address by Dr. W. 
M. Davidson, Superintendent PubHc Schools, Washington, D. C. 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29. 

9:30 a.m. — General Session, in Charge of Administration Section. 
Mrs. Mary H. Moran, Chairman, N. E. Kitchen, Boston. 

Topic. — School Lunch Rooms, Their Equipment and Organization. 

10:30 a.m. — Report of Committee on Entrance Requirements. 
Miss Jenny Snow, Chairman, University of Chicago. 

Report of Committee on Legislation. Dr. B. R. Andrews, Chairman. 

Report of Committee on Finance. 

Report of Committee on Journal. Discussion of the report. 

Discussion of Report of Committee on Nomenclature, reported 
at San Francisco. 

Changes in Constitution. New Business. 

I :oo p.m. — Annual Luncheon at Hotel Gordon. 

3 130 p.m. — Round Table on the Teaching of Applied Art to College 
Students. Participated in by Miss AHce Houston Craig, College of 
Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas; Miss Grace G. Denny, University 
of Wisconsin; Miss Ella J. Spooner, Simmons College; and others. 

8:00 p.m. — Public Meeting. Education and Home Economics, 
with address of welcome. Philander P. Claxton, U. S. Commissioner 
of Education. Response, Miss Bevier. Paper, Home Economics and 
Culture, Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Editor, Journal of Home Economics. 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30. 

9:30 a.m. — Extension Work, in Charge of Miss Rachel H. Colwell. 

Extension Work in Kansas, Mrs. Mary P. Van Zile; in Minnesota, 
Miss J. L. Shepperd; in West Virginia, Miss Colwell. 

Unfinished Business. Report of Nominating Committee. Adjourn- 
ment. 

The program as arranged will give opportunity for attending some 
of the public meetings of the other affiliated societies of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science. 



REPORT OF THE SAN FRANCISCO MEETING. 
Helen Louise Johnson. 

The Education Section of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation met in San Francisco, July 11-13, in conjunction with the 
National Education Association. The program has been printed in 
the October Journal (page 409), as has also an account of the first 
meeting (page 400), devoted to exercises in memory of Mrs. Richards. 

On Tuesday evening an informal dinner was given at the Teachau 
Tavern for the visiting delegates, teachers of Home Economics and 
visiting friends. A large number attended and a most enjoyable 
time was passed. All present were called upon to give their names, 
the institution from which they were graduated or at which they were 
then studying, and where they were located. It proved most inter- 
esting to meet so many from isolated places who obviously were getting 
inspiration from meeting and knowing those engaged in the same work. 

On Wednesday, July 12, the meering was called to order by Presi- 
dent Bevier, who introduced Dr. A. C. True of the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. Dr. True presented the paper on The College 
Curriculum in Home Economics printed on page 421 of this issue. 

A paper on the Home Economics movement, by Miss Bevier, 
followed. Miss S. Maria Elliott of Simmons College, presented a 
paper entitled A Four Inch Lesson in Health and Economy (see 
page 428). 

The chair was then given to Miss Ednah Rich of the State Normal 
School of Manual Arts and Home Economics of Santa Barbara. 
Miss Rich first spoke of the importance of the teaching of Home Eco- 
nomics, how it must be closely guarded from wrong influences and 
tendencies, and of its correlation with vital civic things and home 
interests. "Woman's Rights," in her opinion, are to know, to appre- 
ciate, to enhance, and to enrich home things. 

In the absence of Miss Sarah M. Hummel, who was unable to be 
present. Miss Ellen M. Bartlett, supervisor of Home Economics in the 
San Francisco schools, was introduced. Miss Bartlett then gave 
details of the San Francisco parental school, which presents many 

497 



498 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

peculiar and interesting problems. This school is situated in the 
midst of the burned district, a crowded section where home habits and 
surroundings of the students made many special kinds of help neces- 
sary. The students, who are limited to boys, suffer from malnu- 
trition and many are lacking in the ability to earn a living. They 
are taught to cook, partly for themselves, in part because cooks are 
in demand in the lumber and mining camps. In order to learn how 
best to teach them with limited food materials and equipment. 
Miss Bartlett and her sister visited and studied the methods of 
teaching the soldiers at the Presidio. She explained the beginnings 
of the lessons and later on gave details of cost. The boys pay five 
cents a week, which covers the cost of materials for their lunches, but 
not the entire outlay, hence the boys are encouraged to reduce the 
cost in other ways. The cost is about two cents for three meals per 
person and the foods includes beef stews, beef loaf, macaroni and toma- 
toes, corn bread, muffins, beans, and dried fruits, with variations 
according to the left-overs from day to day. 

Miss May Secrest of the CaHfornia Polytechnic School then des- 
cribed certain schools which she had closely observed in foreign coun- 
tries, among them a public school in Japan and a private school in 
Naples. Mrs. LuHe Robbins of New York City followed with a 
description of the work done in the Speyer School, the experimental 
school of Teachers College, particularly in regard to the evening school 
and afternoon playroom for children. 

Miss Rich then introduced President Kerr of the Oregon Agricul- 
tural College, who talked of the importance attached to Home Econom- 
ics work in Oregon and stated that work had been carried on in the 
college since 1888, a surprise to the Easterners present. Consider- 
able work is being done, and recently stress has been put on the 
promotion of the work in the pubhc schools, both elementary and 
high. He especially emphasized the change of thought in the last 
ten years in the development of the idea that women are entitled to a 
training for their own work. 

The meeting on Thursday was addressed by Prof. M. E. Jaflfa of 
the University of California, who spoke on Nuts and Fruits as Food, 
and by Miss Ellen A. Huntington of the Agricultural College of 
Utah, whose paper on the Application of Science to the Housekeeper's 
Daily Problems appears on page 440 of this issue. 

Miss Bevier reported that the Graduate School of the Association 
would meet as usual with the Graduate School of Agriculture in 1912, 



igii] Report of the San Francisco Meeting 499 

thereby receiving the benefit of its lecturers and laboratories. Mrs. 
Alice Peloubet Norton of Chicago University has consented to take 
the chairmanship of the committee in charge, made vacant by the 
death of Mrs. Richards. The Graduate School will meet at East 
Lansing, Mich., with the Michigan State Agricultural College and Mrs. 
Norton is already in correspondence with Miss Gilchrist, Dean of 
Women, concerning plans. Later announcements will be made 
through the Journal. 

Resolutions were presented expressing to Miss Bartlett, Miss Rich, 
Miss Pansell, President of the California Division of Household Arts, 
and their co-workers, the sincere appreciation of the members for 
their efforts, through which the meetings had been made so successful. 

Miss Bevier again called attention to the plans for the memorial 
fund and for the Life of Mrs. Richards, the first volume of which is to be 
issued early in 191 2. The question of the support of the Journal 
was discussed by Miss Elliott and the interest of all women soHcited. 
The formation of a California State Association was also advocated. 

Following announcements as to other meetings of the Association, 
the section adjourned. 



DEPARTMLM 
hOtSiihOLD SCIENCE 



SECOND ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ASSO- 
CIATION FOR STUDY AND PREVENTION OF INFANT 
MORTALITY. 

Hotel La Salle, Chicago, November 16-18, 1911. 
thursday, november 1 6. 

2 130 p.m. — Meeting of section on nursing and social work. 

4:00 p.m. — Meeting of executive committee. 

5:00 p.m. — Annual meeting of board of directors. 

8:15 p.m. — Opening session. Addresses by President Chas. R. 
Henderson, Dr. George R. Young, Commissioner of Health, City of 
Chicago; Dr. Hastings H. Hart, New York. 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 7. 

10:30 a.m. — Section meetings. 

2:30 p.m. — General session. 

Report of committee on birth registration, Dr. W. R. Batt, chair- 
man. 

Reports and resolutions from sections on eugenics; midwifery; 
nursing and social work. 

5.00 p.m. — ^Annual business meeting of the association. 

8:15 p.m. — Popular meeting — Addresses by Miss Jane Addams, 
Dr. W. A. Evans, of Chicago; Dr. H. J. Gerstenberger, Cleveland; 
Dr. J. W. Schereschewsky, U. S. Public Health and Marine Hospital 
Service, Washington, D. C. 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1 8. 

9 too a.m. — Meeting of board of directors for election of officers, etc. 
10:30 a.m. — General session. 

Reports and resolutions from sections on city milk supply; housing; 
continuation schools of home making. 
Resolutions; announcements; closing. 
Afternoon — Meeting of executive committee. 

500 



19 1 1] Meeting of Infant Mortality Association 501 

At the section meeting, Friday, November 17, on education, and 
continuation schools of home making, the topic discussed was as fol- 
lows: " Since the great majority of children leave school before sixteen 
years of age, and there is a considerable interval before marriage, 
should school boards create continuation schools of home making 
where girls (women) with grammar school education (more or less) 
can receive, even several years after leaving school, free instruction 
in house-wifery, care of children and related matters, thus bringing 
instruction near the time when it is needed for use? Outline a 
course for continuation schools of home making. " 

This concerns girls of marriageable age, even married, not school 
children; the well-to-do, not the poor alone; the fairly well educated as 
well as the Kttle educated; those earning wages and those not doing so. 
The need of such schools is quite universally admitted. Among the 
chief points for discussion were the practicability and relative values of 
day instruction, evening classes, and part-time schools; of instruction 
in class rooms, or in model houses and flats, or in pupils' homes; of 
details of the curriculum. One question was how to teach the care of 
infants and children. Is there a more effective and practicable method 
of pubUc instruction in mothercraft than to co-ordinate the work of 
the pupils with the service in regular nurseries, hospitals, and institu- 
tional homes? Or with the work of either city or school visiting 
nurses or those supplied by private agencies? 

The round table was led by Prof. Marlatt and among those taking 
part were the president of the American Home Economics Associ- 
ation, Prof. Isabel Bevier, of the University of lUinois; the super- 
visor of household arts in Chicago public schools, Miss Mary S. Snow; 
Dr. Fletcher B. Dresslar of the United States Bureau of Education; 
Dr. Helen MacMurchy, medical officer of the board of education, 
Toronto, Canada; Mr. Charles McCarthy, secretary of the Wisconsin 
commission on industrial training; Miss Adele Barrett, president of 
the Chicago Association of Practical Housekeeping Centers; Prof. J. 
H. Wright, biologist. Mechanics Institute, Rochester; Prof. Phelps, 
department of biology, Michigan State Normal College; Dr. Marion 
Talbot, dean of women, Chicago University; Prof. Frances Squire 
Potter, university extension work; and Prof. Edna D. Day, depart- 
ment of Home Economics, University of Kansas. 

The findings of the conference were summarized and presented 
briefly at the public session, Saturday morning by Dr. Putnam, Dr. 
Dresslar, and Prof. Marlatt, followed by general discussion. 



EDITORIALS. 

The attention of all members of the American Home Economics 
Association is called to its Fourth Annual Meeting to be held in Wash- 
ington December 27-30. The program, preliminary 
Fourth Annual announcement of which is made on page 495, prom- 
Meeting, ises to be a good one. The meeting of the Ameri- 
can Association for the Advancement of Science 
at the same time and place during the same week will afford an un- 
usual opportunity to hear of the latest work of investigators in many 
lines. 

The city of Washington has many attractions to offer. It is ex- 
pected that the final program will be ready for distribution by Decem- 
ber I. 

The members of the local committee are Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, Chairman; Miss Emma S. Jacobs, 
Director of Domestic Science, Washington Public Schools; and Miss 
Alice Faye Seller. 

Requests for information may be addressed to either Dr. Lang- 
worthy or Miss Jacobs. 

Isabel Bevier, President. 

When we read in the Atlantic Monthly for October an article with 
this title and learned that its author was "a believer in Domestic 

Science" and that she holds "much higher ideals 
"One View of of it than do its professional advocates," we felt 
Domestic sure that from a new quarter light was to be shed 

Science." on questions of moment. For Miss Harkness is a 

teacher of Latin. Perhaps a ripe educator trained 
in traditions that have always been claimed to make for the highest 
culture was to join our ranks and labor with those who are laying the 
foundations of this newest of the applied sciences! But no, Miss 
Harkness attacks courses in Domestic Economy as wholly lacking in 
disciplinary or cultural value and, still more, as cheating the child 
out of the time for mathematics and Latin. Her remarks seem to be 
based, unfortunately, on so narrow and mistaken a knowledge of what 

502 



igii] Editorials 503 

such courses really are in any first class school as to render her sugges- 
tions of no value; anyone of dozens of school catalogues we could name 
would have given her the needed facts on which to base a criticism 
that might have proved most suggestive. 

That the so-called practical studies may be so taught that they 
"train for power" and are "mentally nutritive" has been proved 
again and again, and the same is true of their cultural value; that 
they are in reaUty always so well taught that these ends are gained 
we cannot claim, but the ideal is clearly held and is being more and 
more approximated; even Latin is not always so taught as to gain 
these ends, for in many hands it is the mere husks and bones of learn- 
ing and loathed by the student. These and many other studies fur- 
nish the material for culture; success depends on the system and the 
teacher. ''Die KuHur," said an eminent German physiologist in our 
hearing, "isi keinetn Stande eigen" — "culture is the exclusive possession 
of no one class;" some degree of it may come through many channels 
even to the toiler whose days are brightened by the memory of pre- 
cious stolen hours spent with poet or philosopher whose words have 
kindled an ardent mind. 

But the real question at issue is this: In meeting the modern demand 
that courses of study shall enable the youth to understand and control 
his increasingly complex environment, can we expect him at the same 
time to enter deeply into the Ufe of the past and to spend years in 
acquiring the classic languages? Would that it were possible, that we 
need miss out of general education none of the great lessons to be 
learned from "the glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was 
Rome!" But art is too long and time too fleeting, the decision is 
already made for the great majority of students. The English uni- 
versities, for centuries the unyielding strongholds of the classics, 
are beginning to feel the rivalry and the stern rebuke of great commer- 
cial and industrial schools that have sprung up at their very doors; that 
enlightened nation, Germany, has already yielded to the demands of 
its people and has broadened the once rigid requirements of the 
gymnasium and has also established schools of equal rank and honor 
wherein industrial courses and modern languages hold the front. And 
yet the most advanced educators do not despair of the future of mental 
training and culture, for the new may reveal rich possibiUties. The 
American thrush has been adjudged a better singer than the Thracian 
nightingale and a Keats may yet immortalize it. 



504 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

At the close of Miss Harkness' article we find its real kernel. She 
has laid out work for the advocates of Domestic Science. It shall be 
their duty to construct a wholly new system of housekeeping which 
shall free women to enter on outside careers, for the home is a " devour- 
ing monster" and it is making brilKant women "kitchen-minded." 
She even says that she knows "good housekeepers whose conversation 
is not up to their biscuits!" 

It is truly unfortimate to be kitchen-minded or parlor-minded or 
library-minded or anything but broad-minded, but it may not be 
possible in this imperfect life to quite keep the balance; the pressure of 
earning a living together with other cramping conditions may quite 
often force our conversation to a level below our biscuits, in whatever 
oven they may be baked. Only the professional entertainer could be 
an exception and he furnishes no biscuits for comparison. 

As to the gifted women who find their true expression in some form 
of art or science or pubhc service and who yet have normal desires for 
love and home, their number is relatively small and they have always 
been able to sing, to write, to act, to paint while the kettle has some- 
way kept on bubbling without their immediate supervision. There 
are a far greater nimiber who have the longings without perhaps the 
marked talents for a chosen career and who require at the same time 
as their right the emotional side of domestic life but do not wish to 
face what have been considered its duties. They say that the essen- 
tials of home-life are weighted with a complicated and out-of-date 
system. We would remind them that excellent experimental work 
undertaken in these very schools of Domestic Science is doing much 
to simplify and enlighten the present system, but when the best has 
been done, old-fashioned duties and tasks will still remain. This is 
especially true for those living in the open country and very small towns, 
where dwell over fifty per cent of our population. We must always 
remember that the function of emotion is to stimulate to the joyful per- 
formance of some outside expression of ourselves; when disconnected 
with duties, it may degenerate into emotionalism. Precious things are 
only to be bought with a price. Just as the price of fatherhood is 
toil for the maintenance of the family, so motherhood means a devo- 
tion to the thousand details, material and spiritual, of a life that isto 
bring the child through infancy and adolescence to normal develop- 
ment. Much may be safely delegated, but the truth remains that the 
number of hirelings, using the word in its best sense, who are intelli- 
gent, well-trained and conscientious, is strictly limited, there are never 



igii] Editorials 505 

enough to go around; and these supremely important relations of 
life require that the interested person, the woman in the case, must 
train herself to perform her duty to herself, to her own generation, and 
to the one to follow. 

[We quote the following from the circular that has been prepared 

by the committee on the Memorial Fund in order that the subscribers 

to this JouRXAL may all be made acquainted with 

The Ellen H. this unique and most promising plan. 

Richards Me- We take the Uberty of suggesting that however 

mortal Fund, well this committee may do its work, there is plenty 

of room for volimteer service. Names accompanied 

by dollars they will welcome from any quarter.] 

Mrs. Richards' message to the women of America was: "Control the 
material things which lie about you, and make natural and social forces do 
your bidding, in order that you may have time and energy to make life 
beautiful and gracious and worth-while." 

Confident that it is a duty and a privilege to make permanent the inspira- 
tion and influence of a life marked to an unusual degree by sanity, wisdom, 
and helpfulness, the American Home Economics Association proposes to 
raise a fund of $100,000 in memory of its organizer and former president, 
Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. 

To make the memorial a worthy monument, it is to be of material "more 
lasting than bronze. " The income from the fund — which is to be invested 
and administered by a responsible Board of Trustees representing Mrs. 
Richards' family and The American Home Economics Association — is to be 
expended in putting on a firm foundation the Journal of Home Economics, 
the official organ of the Association, and in scholarships and prizes to 
encourage research work on problems relating to home life. Thus the fund 
becomes a living factor in the progress and development of the work that 
Mrs. Richards had most at heart and will go on accomplishing the results 
that she had set herself to attain. It will arouse an interest in the home; 
will awaken the American people to a realizing sense of the importance of 
the home to the community; will stimulate scientific study in its relation 
to home problems; and will provide a means for the wide dissemination of 
the results of scientific investigation for the practical help of the teacher and 
housewife. This fund, therefore, assures for her a sort of "earthly immor- 
tality." 

In order that the gift may be a thoroughly democratic expression of appre- 
ciation and enthusiasm and that it may be participated in by all of Mrs. 
Richards' friends and by everyone interested to contribute toward the cause 
of right living, the money will be collected in one-hundred-thousand one- 
dollar subscriptions. Every cent given will go toward the fund, as a few 
of Mrs. Richards' personal friends will meet all the expenses connected with 
collecting the money. 



5o6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

In her latter years, Mrs. Richards came to feel that two of the most impor- 
tant problems that we as a people had to face were the preservation and 
betterment of our homes and the proper education and training of our 
children. To these two problems she decided she was called to devote 
whatever of life was left to her. It was her plan to give her time to the 
Journal of Home Economics, and to discuss in its pages questions of educa- 
tion and home-making in a way to affect public school conditions and to 
help and inspire teachers and home-makers. Her unexpected and seem- 
ingly untimely death has deprived the country of her invaluable services. 
It is the purpose of this Memorial Fund to make possible the continuation 
of this work by other able and practical scientists and to insure the carrying 
out of Mrs. Richards' general plan. 

DIRECTIONS TO SOLICITORS. 

Make yourself familiar with the above information regarding Mrs. Rich- 
ards and her work. 

Call upon all the people on your list and ask each one to give you a dollar. 
If a person wishes to give more, let him give it in the name of some member 
of his family. There must be a name for every dollar! Collect the money on 
the spot and give a receipt for it. When you have called on all the per- 
sons on your list, make a complete report to your State Representative and 
send her the money you have collected. She will send you a recipt for it. 
If you know any men and women who would give, in addition to the ones on 
your list, ask them and send their dollar and their names to your State 
Representative. We want as many names and as many dollars as we can 
get. 

Remember that the interesting features of this memorial are — 

That it is a living memorial with constantly growing opportunities for 
service, and that it is so plastic that it can meet the needs of coming genera- 
tions as well as of our own. 

That it is a democratic expression of interest in which the richest can have 
no more part than the poorest. 

That it is the purpose of the fund to be an agency in the work of preserving 
the American home and bettering it. 

That anyone who believes in the home ought to be glad to give a dollar 
to this fund. 

THE COMMITTEE. 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Office of Experiment Stations, Washington, D. C. 

Miss Isabel Hyams, 26 Wales Street, Dorchester, Mass. 

Miss Ednah A. Rich, 303 Soto Street, Santa Barbara, Cal. 

Dr. B. R. Andrews, Teachers College, N. Y. City. 

Mrs. William H. Barrett, Chairman, 108 Johnson Street, Brooklyn, N. Y, 



''t: 



ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS OCTOBER JOURNAL. 

Additions to the list of dates and events in the history of the Home 
Economics movement. 

1883 — Miss Helen Abbott writes a paper on the nutritive value of 
condiments. 

1897 — Domestic Fcience course established at Ohio State University. 

1901 — Home Economics Department is organized at Milwaukee- 
Downer College. 

1902 — Home Economics Department organized at University of 
Illinois. 

1906 — Miss Be\1er and Miss Usher publish The Home Economics 
Movement. 

1909 — Home Economics Department organized at Cornell Univer- 
sity and University of Wisconsin. 

Additions and Corrections to the list of Mrs. Richards^ published 
writings: 

1881 — The Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning. Revised (with 
S. Maria Elliott) Home Science Pub. Co., 1897; third ed., revised, 
Whitcomb & Barrows, 1907. 

1885 — Food Materials and their Adulteration. 1898, Home 
Science Pub. Co. Revised, Whitcomb & Barrows, 1906. 

1897 — (With Sarah E. Wentworth). Report to his Honor the 
Mayor, and to the Institutions Commissioner, on the Dietaries of the 
Nine Institutions of the City of Boston. Second Ann. Rpt. Institu- 
tions Commissioner, Boston, 1897 (City Doc. No. 14). 

1899 — Cost of Living. Third edition, 1905. 

1900 — (With A. G. Woodman). Air, Water, and Food for Colleges. 
Revised 1904, 1909, John Wiley & Sons. 

1903 — (With Amelia Shapleigh). Dietary Studies in Philadelphia 
and Chicago, 1892-3. U. S. Dept. Agr., Ofl5ce Expt. Stations Bui. 
129. 

1904 — Art of Right Living. Whitcomb & Barrows. 

1906 — Good Luncheons for Rural Schools. Whitcomb & Barrows. 

191 1 — Conservation by Sanitation. John Wiley & Sons. 

507 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The department of household science announces a gain of 20 per cent in 
registration over that of last year at this time. 

Two new names have been added to the list of instructors 
University of in the department, namely, Miss Cora E. Gray from the 
Illinois. University of Chicago and Miss Pauline Wurster from the 

University of Michigan. Miss Usher is absent for the year 
on leave, and her work is taken by Miss N. E. Goldthwaite, who has been for 
three years research assistant in the department. 

A new feature of the department is the introduction of the movable school 
in its extension work. The first one is to be held under the auspices of the 
County Y. W. C. A. of Woodford County at Minonk, Illinois, October 16-23. 
Plans for the annual School for Housekeepers to be held January 15-27 are 
also under way. 

A study of the economic value of household work is being made by John 
B. Leeds, as the basis of a doctor's thesis at Columbia University. Mr. 

Leeds has prepared a schedule which he is sending out to 
Columbia housekeepers, seeking information regarding the time spent 

University. in the various forms of household work, the methods of 

organization and management of the home, etc. Any reader 
of the Journal who is interested may obtain a copy of the schedule by 
addressing Mr. J. B. Leeds, Kent Hall, Columbia University, N. Y. 

The School of Household Science and Art has takenon the management of 
the Institute Lunchroom, in order to give full time students in household 
science courses experience in large quantity cooking. A 
Pratt group of seven students goes in for a week, preparing all 

Institute. the food for something over two hundred people, and assist- 

ing in the service. The senior normal students have only 
the single meal, but the institutional household science students repeat the 
work at frequent intervals. Students in the last-named course also have 
experience in buying for the lunchroom, and the classroom work, and in keep- 
ing the accounts. 

The Institute has installed a small laundry with machines run by elec- 
tricity, so that students will be given practice in laundry work as it applies 
to institutions. The normal course in household art, reestablished after 
a lapse of four years, will send its first class in June. The students do the 
practical work in dressmaking in the class with trade students. 



508 



iQii] News from the Field 509 

The department of Home Economics in the University of Washington was 

established in the fall of 1909. The principal purpose of the department is 

to train teachers. A four year teacher's course has been 

University of outlined, leading to the degree of bachelor of science in 

Washington. Home Economics. 

With the exception of two courses outlined in the depart- 
ment, candidates for the degree of B.A. may elect from the course in Home 
Economics studies to an amount not to exceed the equivalent of twenty- 
four unit-hours. 

The department has grown rather faster than was anticipated. There 
were twenty-seven students in the department the first semester that the 
work was offered. A year later the enrollment reached 107. 

This year one young man has been taking the courses on foods. 

A Home Economics Club open to students of Home Economics was organ- 
ized in the university, March 14, 1910. The aim of this club is educational 
and social. Some very interesting lectures have been given. 

The Home Economics Department is equipping a model house for practice 
work. The building is a modern six-room cottage and will 
University of be fitted up to serve as an example of how the average Ameri- 
Wisconsin, can home should be furnished and managed. 

A recent number of Nature announces that 5o,ooo£ has been raised for 
the endowment of home science in connection with the Woman's Depart- 
ment. The queen has consented to the use of her name in 
King's the soliciting of funds for a new dormitory to cost 2o,ooo£, 

College. and a like amount is to be used for building and equipping 

laboratories. It is hoped to obtain io,ooo£ additional to 
increase the funds for salaries and current maintenance. 

The London Times, in an editorial note, warmly eulogizes the new depar- 
ture, which it predicts "will be received throughout the country with uni- 
versal satisfaction and sympathy." 

In response to an invitation extended by the Home Economics depart- 
ment of the University of Washington, a number of the teachers of domestic 
science and art in the state met December 29, 1910, at the time 
Washington of the State Teachers' Association, and organized a State 
State Branch Branch of the American Home Economics Association. The 
of the Asso- following officers were elected: 

elation. Mrs. Ellen Dabney, supervisor of Household Science and 

Arts in the Seattle public schools, president; Miss Minerva 
Lawrence, teacher of domestic science in the Bellingham Normal School, 
vice-president; and Miss Grace K. McKibben, teacher of domestic science 
in the Seattle High School, secretary and treasurer. 

The Branch Association held a two days' conference in Bellingham, April 
13 and 14. 



5IO The Journal of Home Economics [December 

On February 7, 1911, through the efforts of Miss Emma S. Jacobs, Director 
of Domestic Science, a local branch of the American Home Economics 
Association was formed. During the winter five meetings 
Home Econom- were held, principally to form a constitution and to elect offi- 
ics Associa- cers. The officers elected were as follows: President, Miss 
tion of Wash- Alice F. Seiler; vice-president. Miss Alice Burritt; recording 
ington, D. C. secretary, Miss Nellie Rutherford; corresponding secretary, 
Miss Elizabeth Saxton; and treasurer. Miss Marion Pollard. 

This year meetings will be held every other month beginning with Octo- 
ber. All interested in the advancement of Home Economics will be asked 
to join and formal programs will be arranged. 

The initial meeting of the season was held October 3. Miss Jacobs gave 
a history of the Home Economics movement, and Mr. H. Rabild of the Dairy 
Division, U. S. Department of Agriculture, discussed the production and 
care of sanitary milk. Plans were also formulated for the forthcoming 
meeting" of the American Home Economics Association in Washington in 
December. 

Consul General Frank Dillingham, Coburg, in a recent issue of the Con- 
sular and Trade Reports, states that "the Government of the Duchy of 
Saxe-Meiningen has been for some time past experimenting 
Traveling with a plan for teaching girls in small country villages the 

Cooking art of cooking. At the present time there are three female 

Schools. teachers in the employ of the Government, each one of whom 

has a prescribed district. The course in cooking in a village 
lasts six weeks and each teacher visits seven villages, thus keeping her 
employed 42 weeks in the year, the remaining 10 weeks being her vacation. 
A teacher receives 159 marks ($37.84) for each course, or 1,100 marks per 
year. Each pupil pays 12 marks for the six weeks' course, or 48 cents per 
week, and is allowed to eat what is cooked at the school. No school is 
opened in a village unless at least 12 pupils are guaranteed in advance, 
because less than that number would not warrant the expense of starting it. 

"I visited one of these schools at Veilsdorf a short time ago. It was held 
in a large room in a wing of the local inn, the school hours being from 8 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Every article in the room was portable, capable of being easily 
transported to the next village with very little trouble or expense. In 
one corner of the room was a cooking stove, in which coal was burned, and 
at one side of the room was a large, wide bench, on which the vegetables, 
etc., were prepared, and above this bench hung the necessary cooking uten- 
sils. At one end of the room was a large cupboard filled with china and 
necessities for the table, and at the other end of the room there was a long 
table at which the pupils were sitting. The teacher had just given them 
the list of dishes that they were to cook that day for dinner, and was ques- 
tioning them as to the market price of the articles needed for them. The 
cost of each ingredient used was reckoned, assuming that enough was to be 
made for a family of four. The dinner was to consist of soup, meat, rice, 
and dessert, the cost of which was reckoned at 24 cents for four people, 
or 6 cents for each person. Everything was taken into account when 



igii] News from the Field 511 

reckoning the cost, including salt, spices, etc., as well as the cost of the fuel 
used. The Sase-Meiningen Government supplies everything except the 
cups and plates, which the pupils like to bring themselves, because each 
pupil usually has her favorite china cup, saucer, and plate at home. In 
most of the villages in Thuringia the only kind of vegetable known is cab- 
bage, or, in another form, sauerkraut. 

"This traveling cooking school suggests and strongly encourages the 
growing of all the various kinds of vegetables, and as most of the houses 
have small plats of ground, either at the front or back, this suggestion has 
been generally observed. Strange as it may seem to Americans, scrambled 
eggs are an unknown dish in most of the villages in Germany. In fact, the 
bill of fare of the average German farmer is extremely meager and varies 
very little. It is said that the German farmer will eat only what he has 
from childhood, and great difficulty is, therefore, experienced by the teachers 
of the school in inducing their pupils to partake of any dish that is cooked 
for the first time. The cooking of the average housewife in a small village 
in Germany is so rudimentary that the latest attempts of the Government 
of the Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen to teach at least the rudiments of cooking 
to young country girls is considered worthy of commendation and support. 

"A number of the principal citizens in the Duchy donate sums of money 
toward defraying the incidental expenses of the school as a sort of upkeep, 
but any and every deficit is met by the Government. At the end of the 
six weeks' course a large dinner is given, to which the mayor, parents of the 
scholars, and principal people of the village are invited. A small charge is 
made for this. Moreover, small sums of money are also usually given by 
w^ell-wishers of the school who may be present." 

An interesting development in Y. W. C. A. work along domestic science 
lines has been reported from Monoghan Mills, a cotton mill village of South 
Carolina. Besides the usual library, gymnasium, shower 
Domestic baths, art courses, Bible study, etc., this association, by 

Science in means of a domestic science secretary, carries on several 

Y. W. C. A. different lines of work in Home Economics. 
Work in a The association work begins with the little children, there 

Mill Village, being a Little Women's Club where the president, ten years 
old, conducts the meeting and the secretary, of eleven years, 
calls the roll and keeps the minutes. The children, as they grow too old 
for this club, are likely to be passed on into the club for junior girls, 
which continues the work of developing able and intelligent women. 

In the public schools of the village cooking and sewing lessons are com- 
pulsory for all girls over eight years old. Thus, any girl who attends school 
fairly regularly, by the time she has finished the seventh grade should have 
a fair working knowledge of practical home cooking and of the simpler kinds 
of garment making. These village girls, therefore, have advantages enjoyed 
by few city girls. For those who have not had the advantages of the 
public schools, the association, in its night schools, offers similar courses in 
cooking and sewing, of which the domestic science secretary is the superin- 
tendent. 



5J2 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

The especial original feature of the work of the association, however, is 
that which is carried on outside of the building, and which might be termed 
"extension work." The aim of this branch of the work is to be of assist- 
ance to the women who can not come to the association, especially the 
mothers and other home makers. 

The domestic science secretary has organized neighborhood classes or, 
in some cases, has even gone into the individual homes to teach the women 
some of the more important principles of cooking and housekeeping. As 
a result of this there have been bread-making contests, etc., and a great 
demand has arisen for recipes for a variety of economical dishes; so much so 
that a cookery text book, full of practicalevery-day recipes and prepared to 
meet the special local condition has a large circulation in the neighborhood. 
As Miss Graves, general secretary of the association, says, " One who knows 
the monotony of the life of a busy housekeeper will realize that this coming 
together of neighbors to hear of outside things is helpful and enjoyable. 
Time was when it was not considered necessary, or even proper, for a woman 
to be interested in affairs outside her home, but today women everywhere 
recognize the importance of knowing what is going on about them, realizing 
that the labor of making bread, for instance, is really lessened if the woman 
has been refreshed by a bit of outside life." 

That beautiful meat store, in the heart of Chicago's shopping center, 
which was established to eliminate middleman's charges on merchandising and 
thus sell at lower prices, ran its brief career. And yet the 
A Meat trial of about eight months was long enough to afford a con- 

Market that vincing test. In brief, the attempt was to establish practi- 
failed. cally the old-time market, such as still holds favor in some 

cities, chiefly in the South, where the producer and the con- 
sumer meet without middlemen, and a market basket and a purse are 
the essentials to the evening dinner. The telephone order, the free deliv- 
ery, and the credit system were eliminated from the Chicago experiment. 

Goods of quality attractively displayed at reasonable prices character- 
ized this venture. These are essentials of successful merchandising. The 
opening was encouraging, but the new wore off soon. The shop was an 
anachronism — an error in the order of time. It was situated in the midst of 
the big department stores, the greatest retail merchandising establish- 
ments in the world, which have been built on modern methods — telephone 
order, free delivery, and credit. How much it cost its sponsors to attempt 
to turn back the hands on the clock of time they are not telling. Some 
cities yet maintain the old-time market places, and the family horse and 
phaeton, with the market basket aboard, jogs down to market daily or 
twice-weekly and the consumer trades directly with the producer; but the 
atmosphere of Chicago does not seem agreeable to that form of merchan- 
dising. The city built a splendid public market place a few year ago. It 
is now a manufacturing plant. Time and convenience seem to be worth 
money in Chicago. — Breeder's Gazette, 58 (1910), no. 22, p. 1154. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Henry C. Sherman, Ph.D., Professor in 
Columbia University. Pp. ix + 355. The Macmillan Co., New York. 
1911. 

A survey of the popular literature of the day, as it reveals itself in news- 
papers, magazines, and even books, will disclose the awakening of an in- 
tense interest in the subject of nutrition. Some of the current writing which 
aims to review the present status of scientific investigation in this field is 
commendable. This applies above all to the numerous excellent bulletins 
issued under government authority, which deserve wider attention than 
they yet obtain. The popularized contributions to much-read and quoted 
weeklies and monthly periodicals often suffer from the lack of competent 
criticism in their preparation. The writers "cover" an assigned task in a 
way intended to furnish so-called good reading as the foremost result, 
form being more important than accuracy of content. Diet fads are thus 
successively created or destroyed. The idea of reform itself seems to appeal 
to the American mind with greater fervor than the milder lessons of per- 
manent truth. A further type of contributions is positively bad. In this 
class one meets with the fasting nonsense and other such "stuff" which 
is responsible for actual harm to individuals. 

In view of this situation it is helpful to find a book like Professor Sher- 
man's which even the more intensive student of nutrition can read from 
cover to cover without experiencing any serious upset of his stock of facts 
or theories. Although the volume can scarcely be classed as a work for 
beginners, it is presented in a "semi-popular" form that ought to excite an 
intelligent interest even in those who have not carefully reviewed the under- 
lying science upon which nutrition study now rests. Happily the day has 
arrived when it is no longer necessary to make apology for the use of a 
chemical formula in a discussion of this subject. 

The Chemistry of Food and Nutrition is presented in eleven chapters, together 
with a series of useful reference tables on the composition of food materials 
in an appendix. The topics under discussion include the organic food- 
stuffs and their behavior in the digestive tract; the fate of the food-stuffs 
in metabolism ; the fuel value of food and the energy problems; food require- 
ments and dietary standards; the r6le of the inorganic nutrients; and inter- 
esting criteria of the nutritive value of foods. 

The author's reviews of the status of recent investigation are as a rule 
presented with commendable judgment and perspective. Indeed, this is a 
most valuable feature of the book, and is well exemplified in Chapter IV 
on the metabolism of the food-stuffs — an exceptionally effective introduc- 
tion to the newer ideas. The historical resumes of various topics are in 
places involved in a series of details which make them less interesting to the 



514 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

reader who is searching for the lessons of the book. This is true, for example, 
of the chapters on "mineral metabolism" which has, perhaps, been unduly 
emphasized, so that it must be regarded as one of the characteristic innova- 
tions of the volume. Of course, this can be excused because of the usual 
indifference to the problems of the inorganic salts in nutrition, and can be 
ascribed to Professor Sherman's well known interest as an investigator in 
this domain. 

A few quotations may be selected to serve in place of detailed comment 
about various other features. The author writes : ''Ordinarily it is best to use 
milk as the main source of protein throughout the whole of infancy and early 
childhood. Young and middle-aged people usually utilize quantities of 

protein considerably greater than they require Elderly people 

show both a diminished protein requirement and a diminished power of 
dealing with excess. Surplus protein taken in the food is not so rapidly 
absorbed and katabolized, and, while there appears to be no essential differ- 
ence in the form in which the nitrogen is finally excreted, the susceptibility 
to excessive putrefaction of protein appears to be increased. It would 
seem that in the dietary of the aged the protein should be reduced to at 
least as great an extent as are the calories" (p. 203). 

The treatment of the much discussed problem of the protein standard is unbiased 
and reasonable. Incidentally it is interesting to find the expression " food habits" 
incorporated with the heading of a chapter on dietary standards. From 
statistical considerations the conclusion is reached that "the average of 
healthy men and women keep themselves slightly too thin while young, and 
allow themselves to grow slightly too stout as they grow older" (p. 217). 

Regarding the comparative value of "organic" and "inorganic" iron 
preparations Professor Sherman has this to say: "Whether medicinal iron 
actually serves as material for the construction of hemoglobin is not posi- 
tively known, but we have what appears to be ample evidence that food 
iron is assimilated and used for growth and for the regeneration of hemoglo- 
bin to much better advantage than are inorganic or synthetic forms, and 
that when medicinal iron increases the productionof hemoglobin, its effect 
is more beneficial in proportion as the food iron is more abundant — a strong 
indication that the medicinal iron acts by stimulation rather than as mate- 
rial for the construction of hemoglobin. Evidently, then, we must look to 
the food and not to medicines or mineral waters for the supply of iron needed 
in normal nutrition" (p. 246). The table of the iron content of typical food 
materials on page 251 deserves careful study by students of dietetics. The 
conclusion is reached that "the typical American dietary does not contain 
any such surplus of iron as would justify the usual practice of leaving the 
supply of this element to chance. The available data rather indicate that 
foods should be selected with some reference to the kinds and amounts of iron 
compounds which they contain" (p. 252). 

With respect to phosphorus it is concluded that "present food habits are 
more likely to lead to a deficiency of phosphorus compounds than to a defi- 
ciency of protein in the diet, and it is not improbable that many cases of 
malnutrition are really due to an inadequate supply of phosphorus com- 
pounds" (p. 281). Likewise it is suggested that "there should be more 



ipii] Books afid Literature 515 

attention to the choice of such foods as will increase the calcium content 
of the dietary" (p. 289). Here is a reminder that will bear frequent repeti- 
tion: "A quart of milk contains rather more calcium than a quart of clear 
saturated lime water, and by far the most practical means of insuring an 
abundance of calcium in the dietary is to use milk freely as a food" (p. 291). 

The reviewer believes that the splendid researches of Pawlow on psychic 
factors in secretion have often been clothed with too great practical import 
for the ultimate stages of digestion. He quite agrees with Sherman that 
"the data of quantitative digestion experiments upon healthy men afford 
little, if any, evidence in support of this view and much evidence that the 
coefficient of digestibility is but little influenced by the palatability of the 
food, or the monotony of a uniform diet, so long as the food is actually eaten 
and retained and does not undergo excessive bacterial decomposition. 

It seems probable that the psychic influences affect the comfort 
and rapidity of the earlier stages of digestion much more than the final 
percentage utilization of the food" (p. 306). 

In reaching the conclusion that the well-being of the body would proba- 
bly be in no wise impaired if it were possible to exclude all bacteria from the 
digestive tract, the author has referred to the familiar experiments of Nuttall 
and Thierfelder. The later contrary experiences of Schottelius with hens 
should, however, not be overlooked in this connection. 

A companion volume containing a more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food industry is promised. 

Laf.wette B. Mendel. 

What to Eat and Why. J. Carroll Smith, M.D., Boston, Mass. Saunders, 
Philadelphia, 1911, 8vo. Pp. 310, $2.50. 

A more correct idea of the contents of this book would be conveyed by the 
title. What to Eat in Disease and Why. Its purpose is to aid the physician 
in prescribing the diet of his patients. After a somewhat discursive intro- 
duction, common pathological conditions, such as obesity, emaciation, 
diabetes mellitus, etc., are discussed with regard to feeding problems. The 
usual causes, most frequent complicating factors, and typical digestive 
and metabolic disturbances of each disease are set forth, and an attempt 
made to show the bearing of all of these upon the choice of foodstuffs. A diet 
list and some practical suggestions about the preparation or eating of the 
foods conclude each topic. A consistent effort has been made to empha- 
size the fact that many factors are involved, and must always be considered. 

Unfortunately, one's confidence in the author's scientific accuracy is 
disturbed by such statements as the following: 

"Vegetable oil (olive) is not so well absorbed from the intestine as animal 
fats, " (p. 16) ; " In deep, quiet sleep metabolic processes are most active , " 
(p. 40); "Fruit sugars are of great value to alkalinize the blood," (p. 74). 
In regard to the first, fats of low melting point are the more completely 
absorbed (olive oil to 97.7 per cent according to Abderhalden); as for the 
second, "Metabolism is less active in sleep than in the waking condition, 
and the falling off is greater the sounder the sleep" (Tigerstedt); while the 



5i6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

third is manifestly impossible. It is also rather difficult to see why "an 
excess of fat in the system necessitates a great number of extra blood ves- 
sels" (p. 104). 

The author quotes from many sources, but not always with the best of 
judgment, as when he suggests the adoption of Crichton Brown's criterion 
as to the amount of protein desirable in the diet, i.e., that if a child one week 
old takes 2.07 grams per kilo of body weight, a man weighing 70 kilograms 
will need 145 grams. No account is taken of the high percentage of protein 
stored in the body of the growing child (see p. 18). 

Certain other citations seem much out of place in so elementary a treatise, 
as for instance, "Rjasantzeff proved that bread produces more acid in the 
stomach (lactic and other acids) and more nitrogenous urinary waste than 
many other foods — three times more than milk, and as it is also rich in 
nucleins it is considerably restricted in the diet for gout. " Pawlow declares 
that the gastric acidity is lowest with bread; inasmuch as it has about three 
times as much protein as milk, the ' discovery' of a greater amount of nitrog- 
enous end products does not seem particularly startling; and the state- 
ment that it is rich in nucleins is false. 

While not denying the importance of palatability, one would hesitate to 
accept the statement that a less amount of savory food will yield more cal- 
ories than a much larger amount of an unpalatable food (p. 134).^ 

The book may commend itself to the practitioner on account of the 
author's practical experience, but it cannot be considered a reliable text 
for serious students of nutrition, in spite of its attractive title. 

Mary Swartz Rose. 

Domestic Science. Ida Hood Clark, Supervisor of Elementary Manual 
Training in the Milwaukee Public Schools. Little, Brown and Com- 
pany. 1911. Price $1.50 net. 

According to the preface "There is need for a course of lessons in domestic 
science planned for the elementary schools. The course may be used in 
all grades above the third, and some of the lessons may be simplified and 
taught in the first three grades. These lessons may also be used in the first- 
year and second-year high school classes, and in other secondary schools. 
They are suitable for public, private, and rural schools." 

This is a generous claim for any one text-book, but the next sentence is 
truly astounding and will not win favor from educators: "Teachers who 
have absolutely no knowledge of domestic science can teach them by care- 
fully reading them over and performing the work as directed." 

According to the interpretation implied by the table of contents domestic 
science is cookery and little else. 

It is unfortunate that a book should be published which is worthless for 
teachers or pupils. No reputable school of domestic science would "pass" 
examination papers having as many errors in facts, English, and simple 
arithmetic as any chapter contains. The lack of logical sequence in the 
lessons is apparent from this order, " Gingersnaps, custards, soups, steamed 

' Cf. Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, p. 307. 



igii] Books and Literature 517 

brown bread, fruits, bacon, and fats;" or again, "Lamb stew, fruit cake, 
sugar and candy, cheese souffle, bread-making, angel cake, croquettes, 
muffins, vegetables." 

The attempt to give the history of foods results in a curious hodge-podge 
of misinformation. There are few references to good authorities and these 
are indefinite. Even where the bulletins of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture once or twice are mentioned no numbers are given. On page 116 
we read "It will be seen from the table of analysis," etc., but no such table 
appears in the volume nor is there any definite reference to one outside. 
Aside from careless statement of fact and errors in dividing a home recipe 
for school use (see cake, custard, suet pudding, etc.) the recipes and general 
directions for work are expressed clumsily, not clearly, and in bad English. 

The proof reading is inexcusable. A home recipe for junket reads, 

"i tp. milk I rennet tablet dissolved in i tbsp. water. 4 tbsp. sugar 
I tsp. flavoring." "Coloring matters used are caramel, turmene," (Is this 
tumeric?) The cranberry tree is spoken of as a species of "biburnum"(?). 
But this is less serious than the carelessness in stating temperature on p. 
92, "body temperature (70°)"; p. 137, "body temperature, or from 65" to 
70° F."; p. 124, "If the temperature is just right the mass of the omelet 
should be below 75°°; p. 276, " butter melts at 337 centrigrade. " 

Although almost every page will display errors to even the casual reader, 
here are some quotations which may indicate the general style of the book. 

"We must learn physiology, the most important of all studies, wisely 
through an interest in our own growth in stature and in power, and this must 
come through nutrition. " "When boiling place ingredient in water. Fin- 
ish discussion while ingredient is cooking. " 

"Nitrogenous and carbohydrate principles are the two most important 
in cookery." 

"Flour and very hot fat form a soluble mixture, dextrine, which is dis- 
solved in liquids forming a smooth product like gelatine." 

"Eggs possess their highest nutritive value when raw. Albumen sub- 
jected to a very high temperature of heat becomes indigestible. The yolk 
of the egg is rich in fat and in sulphur and therefore the freshness soon 
departs, so that it should not be retained in the stomach any longer than the 
average time for digestion. The white contains about two parts fat while 
the yolk contains about thirty parts." 

"In the early settlement of our country, by the Indians and Colonists, 
places near rivers that contained fish in abundance, seemed to have been 
selected for homes. We read in Bible history, and in later times in his- 
tories of foreign countries, that fish formed the principle article of food." 

"The parts of the fish used for food are the strips of muscle lying along 
the backbone on each side from the head to the tail. In white fish this muscle 
is white, except in herring and mackerel. " 

"Freshness of Fish. This cannot be too largely overestimated, stale 
fish being even worse than stale meats." 

"Baked fish is a convenient method to use in school cooking." 

"Pupils may bring in samples of baking-powder and test the smoothness, 
and also the effervescing powder." 



5i8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

"Lemons in Tea. There are sugar and vegetable acids in both lemons 
and tea, so the effect is the same. Both are changed into CO2, which is not 
supposed to be wholesome." 

"There should be a care to make the table and food pleasing to the eye. " 

Some Living Things; First Lessons in Physiology. Ella B. Hallock, A.S. 
Barnes and Company, New York. Pp. 213. 

The author has presented material in response to a number of needs, three 
of which she states, as (i) To study the human body in relation with other 
living things, and the things on which it depends for life; (2) to teach about 
the human body in such a manner and in such relations that the pupil will 
be interested in the structure and work of its different parts; and (3) to 
offer the material in the form of lessons conveniently arranged for the 
busy teacher. 

Throughout the book, themethodused isthat of direct questioning and the 
requirement of answers written in a specified number of formal statements. 
The author does not state the grades she had in mind in the preparation of 
the lesson. The subject matter given is quite simple enough to be grasped 
by children in the second and third grades, but the method suggested cer- 
tainly could not be employed below the fourth. Even then, if not skill- 
fully handled, the work would easily fall into formal and lifeless question 
and recitation. 

In the first three lessons, by means of pictures, questions, and written 
answers, is developed the idea of the differences between things alive and life- 
less, also between plants and animals. 

This is followed by the lessons on "principal parts." Almost one-fourth 
of the book is given to this phase of the work. An attempt is made to con- 
sider separately each exterior part of the human body in connection with a 
similar part of the body of other animals. Accordingly, the children study 
in isolation and by means of pictures of the dismembered part, the arm of a 
man, the fore-limb of a horse, the arm of a monkey. This leads to a study of 
the skeleton arm and hand, the counting of the bones, the study of the muscles, 
then to the work and care of the hands. The leg, foot, trunk, head, and neck 
are similarly studied. After thus breaking the body up into numerous 
and definite parts, there is no attempt made to bring them together into the 
form of a living, active being. The child is not given the joy of feeling that 
these parts do not really exist as pieces, but that they are all wonderfully 
put together to make one beautiful, harmonious whole. Accordingly, the 
book is decorated on every page with pictures of severed legs, hands, fin- 
gers, and feet; beheaded horses, cows, and men; detached ears, noses, and 
eyes. The attempt has been made to write down to the child's level, but 
the desire to help the busy teacher is in many cases more vividly reflected 
than the desire to give to the child every opportunity for individual thought 
and free expression. 

The third general division of the book is given to the study of the organs 
of special sense and speech. Here, in the discussion of the skin, mouth, 
nose, eye, and ear, the same methods of presentation and illustration are 
used. 



19 1 1] Books and Literature 519 

Under "principal need" are treated the subjects of air, food, water, sun- 
shine, clothing, work and rest. In these lessons the writer seems much 
nearer the interests of childhood, while the picture story about the little 
girl who loved the wind, water, play, and good food, adds interest and life 
to the entire chapter. 

Temperance teachings, a fifth division of the book, is suggestive and help- 
ful. Instead of following the line of old formal temperance teaching, the 
social and civic aspects of the subject are given emphasis. 

Emergencies is the subject of the concluding chapter. The suggestions 
given are simple and perhaps helpful, yet it is questioned whether such 
material holds a legitimate place in a book of so elementary a character. 

Many of the chapters are concluded with quotations. In some cases 
these are well chosen — in others the quotations are not only distantly con- 
nected with the thought of the chapter, but wholly lacking in childish spirit 
and interest. 

Certain good health rules are suggested throughout the book, and the 
children encouraged to pledge themselves to try to adopt certain ones. A 
pledge can mean very little to primary children, for whom the book seems 
to have been written. They are mentally unable to carry over experience 
in such a wayas to be able to discriminate sufficiently to make and keep a 
pledge. Such a course of procedure with little people would certainly be 
lacking in genuine meaning and real dignity. 

After all this is said, it still remains that the book has many points of 
excellence over the old works on formal physiology. The material is graphic, 
simple, attractively arranged, and in most cases, that in which the ordi- 
nary child finds daily interest. While the method is questionable, the book 
is rich in suggestive material, and in the hands of a resourceful teacher, 
might prove a valuable aid. 

Scientific Cooking with Scientific Methods. Sarah E. Woodworth Craig. 
Cincinnati, 1911, pp. ix -|- 404. 

A collection of recipes, with an introduction which discusses the composi- 
tion and characteristics of food, and similar topics. This introductory 
material is neither very adequate nor well arranged. Referring to pectose 
as an acid is perhaps a slip of the pen. 

The Preservation of Eggs. R. Berger. Reprint from Journ. Ittd. and Eng. 
Client., 3, 1911, no. 7, July. 

Inasmuch as various writers differ as to the relative merits of different 
preservatives for eggs, the author experimented with eggs in crystallized 
silicate of soda, or " alkasil, " Na20, Si02, 9H2O, and 4 grades of commercial 
silicate of soda varying practically between the formulas Na20, 4Si02 and 
2Na20, 3Si02. Caustic soda and lime were also added to silicate of soda 
high in Si02 in order to bring down the Si02 percentage. 

No great difference was found in regard to the pore-sealing action of these 
different treatments, and it is believed that common silicate of soda gives 
satisfactory results. Directions for preserving eggs are given. 



520 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Special Problems in the Service of Food. Anna Williams. III. Agr., 15 
(1911), no. 7, pp. 25-29. 

These problems deal chiefly with cost and time values. One of them is 
"How much variety can be secured simply by different methods of prepar- 
ing the same food stuffs? " This article shows how the problem was solved. 

What Salem Dames Cooked in 1700, 1800, and 1900. Salem, Mass., 1910, 
pp. 40. 

This publication, compiled at the Esther C. Mack Industrial School, 
contains a number of old and modern recipes. 

Tropical Agriculture and Cookery. Mrs. F. R. Ramsdell, Nueva Gerona, 
Isle of Pines. 1909, pp. 56. 

The author has collected a number of recipes for the preparation of avo- 
cado, breadfruit, cashew apple, chayote, and other vegetable foods used in the 
Tropics. In the case of avocado or alligator pear the recipe includes direc- 
tions for cooking the fruit as well as for serving it in the more usual 
ways, for making avocado pickle, and for extracting the avocado oil, which 
it is said does not readily become rancid and which can be used as an 
illuminant or for soap making. 

Chocolate and Cocoa Recipes, Maria Parloa, and Homemade Candy Recipes, 
Janet McK. Hill. Dorchester, Mass., 1910, pp. 64, pis. 12, fig. i. 

A collection of recipes by the authors named and also a number gathered 
from other sources. Some historical and other data regarding cocoa and 
chocolate are also included. 

The Feeding of School Children. Helene Simon. Die Schulspeisimg. 
Leipsic. 1909, pp. viii -|- 93. 

Pioneer work in the feeding of school children, the conditions which must 
be met, and other questions are discussed with reference to work in Ger- 
many and other countries. 

Invalid Dietetics. Emilie Kieslinger and K. Wirth. Die Krankenkost. 
Munich, 1910, pp. x -f 250. 

General questions of digestibility and similar topics are discussed as are 
also special problems of invalid dietetics and children's diet, and many 
recipes are given for the preparation of foods. 

The Hospital Dietition. W. F. Boos. Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., i6» (1910) 
No. 12, pp. 386, 387. 

The importance of this subject is pointed out, some of the duties of the dieti- 
tian outlined, and suggestions made for establishing a course in hospital dietetics, 
in a paper which was read before the section on institution management at the 
second annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Boston 
December 31, 1909. 



igii] Books and Literature 521 

How to Live on a Small Income. Emma C. Hewitt. Philadelphia, 1909, 
p. 208. 

The selection of a home, health problems and sanitation, furnishings and 
their care, economy in work, economy in the preparation of food, and other 
questions are discussed. 

Housekeeping in Switzerland. Mary Swift Anderegg. Ohio Farmer, 128 
(1911), no. 14, p. 284. fig. I. 

An interesting summary of data regarding market conditions, food 
supply, and simi'ar topics. 

Some Points in Choosing Textiles. Charlotte M. Gibbs, Univ. III. Bui. 8 
(i9io),no. 15, pp. 18, figs. 5. 

The author gives directions for choosing cotton, linen, woolen, worsted, 
shoddy, and silk materials, and in conclusion summarizes the methods of 
adulteration most likely to be found and the tests for them. 

Chemistry for Launderers, also for Cleaners and Dyers. C. F. Townsend. 
Chicago, 1910, pp. 189, figs. 5. 

In this revision of an English work it is stated that changes have been 
made to bring the discussion into harmony with American customs. Soaps, 
acids, bleaching, stains and their removal, fuel, fabrics, dyes and dyeing, 
the chemistry of the wash room, and similar topics are discussed, and direc- 
tions are given for some simple analytical work. 

Home Waterworks — A Manual of Water Supply in Country Homes. C. J. 

Lynde, New York, 1911, pp. xii + 270, figs. 106. 

Teacher and student will be interested in this handbook, which the author 
considers suitable for reading and study bychildren in continuation classes 
and in high schools. General questions of water supply are considered 
and also problems of bringing water into the house, methods of pumping, 
plumbing and sewage disposal, water power, and related matters. 



INDEX TO VOLUME III. 



1911. 



Abel, Mary H., Mrs. Richards and 
the Home Economics Movement, 
342; New England Kitchen, 362 

American Association for Study and 
Prevention of Infant Mortality, 
500 

American Home Economics Associa- 
tion: Third Annual Convention, 
3; Meeting of Council, 10; Minutes 
of, 9; Program of, 21; Report of 
Secretar\', 1 7 ; Report of Treasurer, 
19; Report on College Courses, 
25; History of, B. R. Andrews, 
357; Fourth Annual Meeting, 414, 
495; Lake Placid fleeting Adminis- 
tration Section, Mary H. Moran, 
404; San Francisco Meeting Edu- 
cation Section, 409, Report of, 
Helen L. Johnson, 497 

Andrews, B. R., American Home 
Economics Association, 357 

Atwater, Helen W., D'.Ajvenel's 
Evolution of Private Expendi- 
tures during Seven Centuries, 473 

Balderston, L. R. and McKeown, 
M. J., Analysis of Blues, 251 

Barrett, Caroline W., Ellen H. 
Richards Memorial Fund, 402 

Bell, M. T., College Residence in 
Teaching Household Management, 
149 

Bevter, Isabel, Mrs. Richards' Rela- 
tion to the Home Economics 
Movement, 214 

Bibliography of Home Economics 
Literature, 190, 307, 489 

Blues, Analysis of, L. Ray Balderston 
and M. J. McKeown, 251 



Book Reviews: Chemistry of Food and 
Nutrition, Sherman, 513; Chem- 
istr>' for Launderers,Townsend, 5 2 1 ; 
Chocolate and Cocoa Recipes, Par- 
loa, 520, Cookery Book, Maclur- 
can, 419; Diet and Nutrition of 
Filipino People, Heiser, 321; Do- 
mestic Art in Woman's Education, 
Colley, 418; Domestic Sanitary 
Engineering and Plumbing, Raynes 
210; Domestic Science, Clark, 516; 
Domestic Science in Rural Districts, 
Knowles, 210; Driers and Evapora- 
tors, Marr, 211; Educational Prob- 
lems, Hall, 418; Equipment for 
Teaching Domestic Science, Kinne, 
300; Feeding of School Chil- 
dren, Simon, 520; Food and the 
Principles of Dietetics, Hutchin- 
son, 418; Health Education League 
Booklets, 209; Homemade Candy 
Recipes, Hill, 520; Home Water- 
works, Lynde, 521 ; Hospital 
Dietitian, Boos, 520; How to Live 
on a Small Income, Hewitt, 521; 
Housekeeping in Switzerland, An- 
deregg, 521; Invahd Dietetics, 
Kieslinger and Wirth, 520; L'Edu- 
cation de la Jeune Fille Contem- 
poraine, Rossel, 418; Makers of 
our Clothes, Meyer and Black, 
420; Manual of Personal Hygiene, 
Pyle, 113; Municipal Chemistry, 
Baskerville, 211; Practical Teach- 
ing of Housewifery to Girls in 
Elementary Schools, Cross, 113; 
Preservation of Eggs, Berger, 519; 
Primer of Sanitation, Ritchie, 
419; Proceedings of American 



523 



524 



The Journal of Home Economics 



Association of Medical Milk Com- 
missions, 419; Report of Commis- 
sion on Cost of Living, Luce, 112; 
Scientific Cooking with Scientific 
Methods, Craig, 519; Some Living 
Things; First Lessons in Physiology 
Hallock, 518; Sociology and Mod- 
ern Social Problems, Ellwood, 321; 
Some Points in Choosing Textiles, 
Gibbs, 521; Special Problems in 
the Service of Food, Williams, 
520; Textiles, Baker 420; Text- 
Books of American School of 
Home Economics, 209; Textiles 
for Commerical, Industrial, Eve- 
ning, and Domestic Art Schools, 
Dooley, 420; Tropical Agriculture 
and Cookery, Ramsdell, 520; 
Wage Earning Women, McLean, 
112; What to Eat and Why, Smith, 
515; What Salem Dames Cooked in 
1700, 1800 and 1900, 520 

BouGHTON, Alice C, School Luncheons 
79 

Catering for High School Students, 
Alice M. Hotchkiss, 71 

Child Care, Teaching in Public Schools, 
Mary Wright, 1 53 ; in High Schools, 
Ella Henry, 160 

Club Study, Outlines for, Mrs. Olaf 
Guldlin, 295 

Cookery at High Altitudes, 176 

Cooking Utensils, Choice of, Helen L. 
Johnson, 169 

Cooperative Kitchen, Blanch McNer- 
ney, 464 

Cooperative Laundry, 173 

CowGiLL, G. W., Staff of Life, 92 

Craig, Agnes H., Textile Experimen- 
tation, 229 

Crawford, Lua R., Art the Founda- 
tion of Domestic Art, 246 

Crooks, Nellie, College Courses in 
Textiles for Training Teachers, 222 

Daily Life in Italy, Ellen A. Hunting- 
ton, 87 



D'Avenel's Evolution of Private 
Expenditures During Seven Cen- 
turies, Helen W. Atwater, 473 

Denny, Grace, Textile Tests at 
Child Welfare Exhibit, 236 

Dewey, Annie and Melvil, Lake 
Placid Conference, 350 

Dietary in South Pacific Islands, John 
I. Large, 90 

Dietetics, Some Practical Aspects of 
Teaching, Hester Ridlon, 61 

Diet in Relation to Growth, Gwendolyn 
Stewart, 81 

Domestic Art, Art the Foundation of, 
Lua R. Crawford, 246 

Domestic Science, Blackboard Work 
in Teaching of, Elizabeth W. 
Saxton, 68; Reading Course in, 493 

Domestic Sociology, Education of Girls 
in, James P. Warbasse, 52 

Economics of Importance in Household 
Science, David Kinley, 253 

Editorials: Affiliation American Agri- 
cultural Societies, 103; Fourth 
Annual Meeting, 502; Gospel of 
Efficiency, 195; History of Home 
Economics Movement, 411; School 
Luncheon, 198; St. Louis Meeting, 
102; Study Courses for Woman's 
Clubs, 315; Summer Meeting of 
Association, 314; Young House 
Wife's Queries, 198; "One View 
of Domestic Science, 502; Ellen H. 
Richards Memorial Fund, 505. 

Elliott, S. Maria, Four-Inch Lesson 
in Health and Economy, 428 

Ellwood, Charles H., Courses in 
Sociology, 44 

Factory Lunch Room, Ethel R. Peyser, 
466 

Fales, Jane, Value of Course in His- 
toric Costume, 243 

Fetter, Frank A., Response to Prof. 
Kinley 's Address, 257 



Index to Volume III 



525 



Flours, Experimental Work with Spring 
and Winter Wheat, Ida Shilling,46i; 
Strength of, Frances Freeman, 460 

Food Manufacturers, Letter to, 472 

Fo\ir-Inch Lesson in Health and Econ- 
omy, S. Maria Elliott, 428 

Freeman, Franxes, Strength of Flours, 
460 

Goodrich, H. I., School of Housekeep>- 

ing, 366 
GuLDLEN-, Mrs. Ol.vf N., Outline for 

Club Study, 269 

Henry, Ella, High School Instruction 
in Care of Infants and Children, 
160 

Historic Costume, Value of a Course in, 
Janes Fales, 243 

HoFFM.\N, C, and Evans, Alice C, 
Preservative Action of Spices, 452 

Home and the Machine, J. Lebowitz, 
141 

Home Economics: College Courses in, 
A. C. True, 421; Dates and Events 
in History of, 336; from Stand- 
point of Grade Teacher, Alice P. 
Norton, 431; Institutions in United 
States Giving Instruction in, Marie 
T. Spethmann, 269, 483; in United 
States, 323; National Association, 
349; Organizations for Promotion 
of, 349; Practical Experiments for 
Promotion of, 362; Social Signifi- 
cance of Movement, Ellen H. 
Richards, 117 

Home Science, University Standard 
in, 29 

HoTCHKiss, Alice M., Catering for 
High School Students, 71 

Household Aid Company, 367 

Household Management, Use of College 
Residence in Teaching, Martha T. 
Bell, 149 

Household Service, as a Labor Problem, 
I. M. Rubinow, 131; Canadian 
Experiment in, 175 



Housekeeper's Daily Problems, Appli- 
cation of Science to, Ellen A. Hunt- 
ington, 440 

Housekeeping in Twentieth Century, 
Ellen H. Richards, 174 

House Management, Six Talks on, 305 

Howard George E., Sociology in 
College Department of Household 
Science, :i2> 

Huntington, Ellen A., Daily Life 
in Italy, 87; Application of Science 
to Housekeeper's Daily Problems, 
440 

Infant Feeding, Mar>' E. Williams, 158 

Jackson, Edith T. Thrift in Kitchen 

from European Standpoint, 126 
Jacobs, Eitvla. S. How to Plan Meals, 

162 
Johnson, Helen L. Choice of Cooking 

Utensils, 169; Report of San 

Francisco Meeting , 497 
Journal of Home EcoNOMics,Additions 

and Corrections, 507 

Ktnley, Davtd, Aspects of Economics 
of Importance in Household Science, 
253 

Lake Placid Conference, Annie Dewey 
and Melvil Dewey, 350 

Langworthy, C. F., An Early Experi- 
ment in the Introduction of Man- 
ual Training into College Curricu- 
lum, 445 

Large, John I., Dietary in South 
Pacific Islands, 90 

Lebo\vit2, J, The Home and the Ma- 
chine, 141 

Manila, Sanitation and Similar Work 
in 480 

Manual Training, Early Experiment in 
Introduction of into College Curric- 
ulum, C. F. Langworthy, 445 

Marlatt, Abby L., Study of Textiles 
in Higher Institutions, 217 



526 



The Journal of Home Economics 



McNerney, Blanche, Cooperative 
Kitchen, 464 

Meals, How to Plan, Emma S. Jacobs, 
162 

Mendel, L. B., Nutrition During 
Growth, 262 

MoRAN, Mary H., Lake Placid Meet- 
ing of Administrative Section of 
Association of, 404 

National Education Association Pro- 
gram, 312 

New England Kitchen, Mary H. Abel, 
362 

News from Field, etc.: Arizona, Union 
High School, Phoenix, 319; Cornell, 
107, 415; Housemaker's Confer- 
ence at, 203; Domestic Science in 
Y. W. C. A. Work in a Mill Village, 
511; Florida State College for 
Women, 317; German Society for 
Supplying Food, 109; Grand Rapids 
Home Economics Club, 206; Illi- 
nois, University of, 105, 508; 
Inter-Moimtain West, Conference 
in, 206; International Congress on 
Alimentary Hygiene, no; Irish 
Training School of Domestic Econ- 
omy, 109; Kansas, Home Eco- 
nomics in, 319; King's College, 509; 
Lewis Institute, 319; Maine, Uni- 
versity of, 105; Meat Market that 
failed, 512; Mechanics Institute, 
Rochester, N. Y., 319; Michigan 
Agricultural College, 317; Missouri, 
University of, 317; Homemaker's 
Conference, 106; Montana College 
of Agriculture, 107; Nebraska, 
University of, 416; New England 
Home Economics Accociation, 207; 
New York Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 205; Ohio Chapter Home 
Economics Association, 206; Pitts- 
burgh, University of, 107; Porto 
Rico, University of, 107; Pratt 
Institute, 203, 508; School Lunches, 
Conference on, 109; Teachers 
College, 202; Tennessee, Univer- 



sity of, 108; Texas, College of 
Industrial Arts, 318; Instruction 
in Home Economics, 204; Travel- 
ling Cooking Schools, 510; Utah, 
Agricultural College, 318, Branch 
Association, 416, Housekeeper's 
Conference, 108; Washington, D. C, 
Branch Association, 510; Washing- 
ton, University of, 509; State 
Branch Association, 509; Western 
New York, Branch Association, 
207; Winthrop Normal and Indus- 
trial School, Rock Hill, S. C, 108; 
Wisconsin, University of, 204, 318, 

509 
Norton, Alice P., Home Economics 
from Standpoint of Grade Teacher, 

431 
Nutrition During Growth, L. B. Men- 
del, 262 

Pastry, Elizabeth Sprague, 446 
Peyser, Ethel R., Quiet Factory 

Lunch Room, 466 
Philanthropic Work, Lessons I have 

Learned, Ellen H. Richards, 389 
Phosphorus in Meat, Louise Stanley, 

311 

Richards, Ellen H. : And the Home 
Economics Movement, Mary H. 
Abel, 342; Death of, 213; Degrees, 
Societies and Published Writings 
of, 391; Exhibits and Prizes, 397; 
Ideal Housekeeping in Twentieth 
Century, 174; In Memoriam, Laura 
E. Richards, 216; Lessons Learned 
in Philanthropic Work, 389; Mem- 
orial Fund, Caroline W. Barrett, 
402; Memorial Services, 400; 
Minutes of Executive Committee 
of Death of, 401; Organization of 
American Home Economics Associ- 
ation, B. R. Andrews, 357; Per- 
sonal Tributes, 379; Relation to 
Home Economics Movement, Isa- 
bel Bevier, 214; Relation to Insti- 
tutions, 370; Relation to Lake 



Index to Volume III 



527 



Placid Conference, 350; Selections 

from Published Works, 412; Social 

Significance of Home Economics 

Movement, 117 
Richards, Laura E., In Memoriam, 

Ellen H. Richards, 216 
RiDLON, Hester, Practical Aspects 

of the Teaching of Dietetics, 61 
RuBiNow, I. M., Household Service 

as a Labor Problem, 131 

Salt-Rising Bread, Winona Woodward, 
100 

Saxton, Elizabeth, Blackboard Work 
in Teaching Domestic Science, 68 

School of Housekeeping, Henrietta I. 
Goodrich, 300 

School Luncheons, Alice C. Boughton, 
70; At WilUam Penn High School, 
Emma Smedley, 74 

Score Card for Eating Houses, 470 

Shilling, Ida, Experimental Work with 
Winter and Spring Wheat Flours, 
461 

Sociolog>', Courses in, Charles Ell- 
wood, 44; What Courses Should be 
Included in College Department 
of Household Science, George E. 
Howard, 33, Anna G. Spencer, 47 

Smedley, E\rMA, Lunch Room of Wil- 
liam Penn High School, 74 

Spencer, Anna G., Sociology in De- 
partment of Household Science, 47 

Spethmann, Marie T., Institutions in 
U. S. Giving Instruction in Home 
Economics, 269, 483 



Spices, Preservative Action of, C. Hoff- 
man and i\lice C. Evans, 452 
Sprague, Eliz.abeth, Pastry, 446 
Staff of Life, G. W. Cowgill, 92 
Stanley, Louise, Form of Phosphorus 

in Meat, 311 
Stewart, G\\':endolyn, Diet in Rela- 
tion to Growth, 81 

Textiles, College Courses for Training 
Teachers, Nellie Crooks, 222; Ex- 
perimentation, Agnes H. Craig, 
229; Study of in Higher Institu- 
tions, Abby L. Marlatt, 217; Test- 
ing Laboratory for U. S. Army, 
Florence Winchell, 240; Tests at 
Child WeKare Exhibit, Grace 
Denny, 236 

Thrift in Kitchen from European 
Standpoint, Edith T. Jackson, 126 

True, A. C, College Courses in Home 
Economics, 421 

Warbasse, James P., Education of 
Girls in Domestic Sociology, 52 

William Penn High School, Report of 
Lunch Room, Emma Smedley, 74 

WiLLLAMS, Mary E. Infant Feeding, 
158 

Winchell, Florence, Textile Testing 
Laboratory for U. S. Army, 240 

Woodward, Winona, Leavening Agent 
in Salt-Rising Bread, 100 

Women's Clubs, Letter of Informa- 
tion for, 187; Suggested Outline 
of Study, 188, 269 

Wright, Mary, Teaching Child Care 
in Public Schools, 153 



TX Journal of home economics 

1 

J7 

V.3 

Food 
Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 






1 



-1 



