
Food and Cookery 






ANDERSON 







THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



Food and Cookery 



THEIR RELATION TO HEALTH 



A Handbook for Teachers and Pupils for 

Use in Cooking Classes and 

Demonstrations 



Revised Edition 



By H. S. ANDERSON 

Instructor in cooking in the Training School for Nurses 
Loma Linda, California 



Loma Linda, Cal. 

The College Press 
1911 






Copyright 1911 by the College Press 
Loma Linda, Cal. 



PREFACE 



The author of the present work, having been for several 
years employed as cook in many of the leading hotels and 
clubs of some of the largest cities of the Middle West and 
the Pacific Coast, as well as being for the past five years 
connected with the Loma Linda Sanitarium, is well prepared 
to speak of the subject here discussed. His position as ex- 
perimental cook and teacher of cooking in the Nurses' 
Training School has also shown the importance of getting 
out something that may serve as a guide to teachers in pre- 
senting this subject before classes. Hence the present work 
is largely designed to serve as a manual for those who may 
be called upon to teach the subject in sanitariums and other 
educational institutions; and with this idea in view, a com- 
plete list of twelve lessons, so arranged as to cover in an 
outline way all the more important points of the subject, 
constitute a valauble feature of the book. 

The First Edition having been all sold in less than a year, 
and the many warm commendations received for it, have 
encouraged the publishers to issue this thoroughly revised 
and enlarged edition, with the hope that it may be of as- 
sistance to those who are struggling to bring the teaching of 
this subject in our sanitariums and elsewhere into full ac- 
cord with sound principles. 

THE PUBLISHERS. 



CONTEXTS 

INTRODUCTION Page 9 

Foods, their Uses in the Body 
Food Economy 

Suggestive Course of Lessons 
Preparation of Food 
Essentials to Success 

BREAD 24 

UNFERMENTED BATTER BREADS ... 25 

Whole Wheat Puffs 
Corn Bread 1 
Corn Bread 2 
Hoe Cake 
Hot Cakes 

UNFERMENTED DOUGH BREADS .... 28 

Cream Rolls 
Whole Wheat Sticks 
Fruit Crisps 1 
Fruit Crisps 2 
German Sticks 
Cocoanut Crisps 
Walnut Sticks 

FERMENTED BREADS, YEASTS .... 30 

White Bread 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Graham Bread 

Rye Bread 

Fruit Bread, Buns, Rolls 

Graham Buns 

O vj U JL O .......... OO 

Cream of Tomato 
Cream of Corn 
Cream of Green Peas 
Cream of Potato 
Cream of Lettuce 
Julienne 

Potage St. Germain 
Fruit Soup 

GRAINS, NUT FOODS, ENTREES .... 41 
LEGUMES 42 

Stewed Lima Beans 
Lima Bean Puree 
Red Beans Creole 



Savory Lentils and Rice 
Lentil and Rice Patties 
Legume Cutlets 
. Croquettes of Scotch Peas 
Baked Corn Nut Pie 
Cream Noodles 
Spanish Rice 

Nut Cero Stew with Dumplings 
New England Stew 
Protose and Rice Timbales 
Baked Macaroni and Olives 
Macaroni au Gratin 
Macaroni and Rice Croquettes 
Baked Spaghitti 
Nut Roast 
Baked Dressing 
Steamed Rice 
Browned Rice 

GRAVIES, SAUCES 50 

Brown Sauce 1 
Brown Sauce 2 
Brazil Nut Sauce 
Cream Sauce 
Celery Sauce 
Nut Sauce 
Tomato Sauce 

VEGETABLES 52 

New Peas 

Baked Ear Corn 

String Beans 

New Asparagus 

Asparagus Tips and New Peas 

Stewed Tomato 

Scalloped Tomato 

Summer Squash 

Baked Squash 

Breaded Egg Plant 

Stewed Salsify 

Cauliflower au Gratin 

Baked Cream Corn 

Roasted Potato 

Scalloped Potato 

Dauphine Potato 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS 57 

VEGETABLE, LETTUCE, AND TOMATO 

Jellied Tomato 



Stuffed Beet Salad 

Salad Russe 

Potato Salad 

Celery Salad 

Cole Slaw 

Celery and Nuttolene Salad 

DRESSINGS 

Mayonaisse Dressing 
Boiled Dressing 
Cream Dressing 

FRUIT SALAD 59 

Stuffed Date Salad 
Fruit BasKet 
Fruics and Nuts 
k ruit Mold 
Date and Apple 

SAUCES 

Fleurette Sauce 
Lemon Sauce 

DESSERTS 61 

Sago Fruit Mold 

Prune Pudding 

Strawberry Whip 

Strawberry Dessert 

Banana Loaf 

Banana Snow 

Flaked Rice and Fruit Mold 

Vegetable Gelatin 

Orange Jelly 

Berry Mold 

Jellied Apple 

PIES .......... 65 

Pie Crust 
Apple Pie 
Prune Pie 1 
Prune Pie 2 

PUDDINGS 66 

Banana Tapioca Pudding 
Cream Tapioca Pudding 
Grape Blanc Mange 
Cream Rice Pudding 

CAKES 67 

Layer Cake 1 
Layer Cake 2 



Walnut Loaf Cake 

ICINGS, FILLINGS 

White Icing 1 
White Icing 2 
White Icing 3 
Orange Filling 

TOASTS, BREAKFAST DISHES .... 70 

Strawberry Toast 

Blackberry Toast 

Prune Toast 

Cream Peas on Toast 

Walnuc Lentils on Toast 

Tomato Toast 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato 

INVALID DIETARY 71 

Barley Water 
Rice Water 
Oatmeal Gruel 
Cornmeal Gruel 
Gluten Gruel 
Flaxseed Tea 
Fruit Egg Nogg 
Cream Egg Nogg 
Lemonade 
Orangeade 

FRUIT ICES, ICE CREAM 74 

ICES 

Strawberry 

Blackberry 

Apricot 

Pineapple 

Grape Fruit 

Lemon 

ICE CREAM 

CANNING, PRESERVING 76 

Fruits 
Vegetables 

COMBINATIONS, MENU MAKING .... 79 
SUGGESTIVE MENUS 83 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



Foods, Their Uses in the Body 

"To care for the body, by providing for it food that is 
relishable and strengthening, is one of the first duties of the 
householder." When men and women study how to supply 
the needs of the body intelligently, they place themselves on 
vantage ground. We all have in the beginning a certain 
vital force from which to draw. To know how to husband it 
properly is the most essential thing in preserving health. 

By taking food into the body the system is nourished and 
built up. Disease results if this food is improper in quantity, 
or poor in quality, or if it is poorly prepared for assimilation. 
There is a constant breaking down of the tissues of the body; 
every thought of the mind, every movement of a muscle, 
involves waste, and this waste is repaired from our food. 
It is highly important, then, that everyone should be able to 
choose those foods which best supply the elements needed to 
make good blood, which in turn imparts life and strength, to 
nerve, muscle, and tissue. 

Grains contain the food elements most evenly distributed. 
Wheat is considered a perfect food, and the representative 
of all foods, containing properties which so nearly represent 
the constituent parts of the body structure as to indicate a 
special Providence in providing it for the human race. Grains 
are very nutritious, and when cooked under a high degree of 
heat, as in baking, they are very easily digested and assimi- 
lated. When they are cooked by the process of boiling or 
steaming, they require several hours cooking in order to 
render them digestible. 

In the olive, as in the various nuts, we find nature's store- 
house of fats. These, when properly prepared, supply the 
place of animal oil and fats. 

Fruits are used not so much with a view of supplying nutri- 



10 Foods, Their Uses in the Body 

ients as for other purposes; the organic acids and essential 
oils, with the easily digestible form in which the nutrients 
are present, are factors which give fruits a high value in the 
dietary. These acids and essential oils impart palatibility to 
the food, and assist functionally in the digestive process. 

Figs and prunes contain chemical compounds that are laxa- 
tive in character. 

In our study of the purposes which the various food ele- 
ments serve in the vital economy, and of the foods best 
adapted to the accomplishment of these purposes, valuable 
help is given us in a practi -al knowledge of the composition 
of the various food materials, which enables us to arrive at 
an idea of the real value of the food in question. See Plate I. 

In speaking of food, we understand something which is 
capable, upon being taken into the body, of either repairing 
its waste or of furnishing it with material from which to 
produce heat and muscular work. This brings to view the 
two main functions of food in the Jx>dy. By the former 
function, food provides for the conservation of the material 
of the body; by the latter, conservation of bodily energy is 
maintained. Substances which are unable to help in the one 
or the other of these directions can not be called food. 
Examples of such non-foods are to be found in extractives 
of meat, tea, coffee, spices, etc. These have no nutritive 
value whatever. 

All foods are made up of one or more of three distinct 
classes of organic compounds, known as proteid or albuminous 
substances, carbohydrates and fats, and different inorganic 
salts. Tnese substances are spoken of as the "nutritive 
constituents" of food, and may be separated into four divi- 
sions: 

1. The proteid or nitrogenous substances are represented 
in the food by the casein in milk, the curd of the milk being 
very highly nitrogenous; the gluten of the wheat; the albu- 
men in the white of egg, which is the purest form of proteid; 



Foods, Their Uses in the Body 11 

the legumen in peas and beans; and the myosin of lean meat. 

2. The carbohydrates are represented by the starches and 
sugars in the various foods. 

3. Fats, as olive oil, butter, the oil found in the olive, 
nuts, and to some extent in most articles of food. 

4. The inorganic substances, as water and mineral mat- 
ters. 

The chief office of proteid matter is to provide for the 
growth and repair of the material of the body. The carbo- 
hydrates and fats furnish the fuel for the body. They yield 
the heat that keeps it warm and the energy that enables it 
to work. The mineral matters are required by the body for 
the building of the bones and the teeth. 

The changes which food undergoes in the body are essen- 
tially changes due to oxidation. Latent heat is just as surely 
found in the food we use as in wood and coal. They are both 
waiting to be oxidized, that they may be converted into heat 
and energy. 

The latent energy in different foods has been determined 
by their oxidation, outside the body, in the aparatus known 
as the bomb Calorimeter. "The amount of heat given off in 
the oxidation of a given quantity of any material is called its 
'heat combustion,' and is taken as a measure of its latent 
and potential energy." Now the calorie is the unit measure 
or standard of heat production, and means the amonnt of 
heat necessary to raise the temperature of one kilogram of 
water 1 C., or about one pint of water 4 F. Careful obser- 
vation by Atwater, Rubner, Chittenden, and others, has 
shown that the heat value of one gram of each of the three 
chief nutritive constituents of food when taken into the -tis- 
sues is as follows: 

l a gram of proteid yields 4 calories 
1 " " carbohydrates yields 4 calories 
1 " " fats yields 8.9 calories 
Bulletin No. 142, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

a. 28.3 grams equals 1 ounce. 



12 Foods, Their Uses in the Body 

As the ounce is made the standard or unit in calculating 
weight, so the calorie is the standard of heat production. 
By the figures in the column at the right hand side of chart 
(Plate I.), are represented the total amount of calories or food 
units contained in one pound of each of the various foods 
under consideration. The building material proteid is 
represented by the red color, and the carbohydrates by the 
green, etc. 

The vital part of all tissue is proteid. Without proteid the 
body would waste away, for the wear and tear of tissue must 
be made good. Though there is no article of diet, except 
sugar and pure fat, into which proteid matter does not enter 
to a greater or less degree, yet there are foods which con- 
tain an unusually high per cent of proteid, known as proteid 
foods. These are the peas, beans, lentils, nuts, eggs, and 
meat. 

The fact that proteid matter is an essential element for 
the growth and repair of the body tissues, has a tendency to 
lead people to believe that they might be benefited by the 
consumption of large quantities of proteid foods; when the 
fact is, the body can use only a limited amount for the 
development and repair of tissues. Although proteid matter 
is capable of yielding a certain amount of heat on oxidation, it 
is inferior for this purpose to carbohydrates and fats; because, 
on being burned in the body, it yields certain deleterious pro- 
ducts which throw upon the liver and kidneys an unnecessary 
amount of labor that overtaxes them and lays them liable to 
attacks of disease. Many of the ailments so prevalent to-day, 
as rheumatism, gout, gastro-intestinal disturbances, indiges- 
tion and liver troubles, have been found to be closely asso- 
ciated with the habitual overeating of proteid foods. 

There is wisdom in a diet that shall provide an abundance 
of carbohydrates and fats, proteid being added only in suffi- 
cient amounts to meet the needs of the body for nitrogen 
and for the development of fresh muscle fibers, etc. Care- 
ful experiments have demonstrated that the body is best sus- 



Food Values 

( Nitrogenous PROTEID Tissue-forming Substances 

Organic j Kl . (CARBOHYDRATES) ... . p. v 

(Non-nitrogenous j FATS energy 

Inorganic Salts - - Mineral Matters, Water 




Foods, Their Uses in the Body 13 

tained in health, and strength and endurance promoted, by a 
diet which contains a proportion of one ounce of proteid 
matter to from ten to twelve ounces of carbohydrates and 
fats. 

A study of the composition of the various foods will enable 
us to see the wise provision made for man in the diet 
appointed for him in the beginning. Man in adding to his 
diet flesh meats with their exceedingly high per cent of pro- 
teid, besides other objectionable features connected with its 
use, finds himself grappling with a problem whose only solu- 
tion is to be found in a study of cause and effect. 

In the diet appointed in the beginning, man is guarded in 
this respect; as in nature, we find the various food elements 
better balanced to meet the needs of the body. The numer- 
ous exhaustive works of to-day, written on the subject of 
diet and the needs of the body, are designed to fill a long 
felt want. They are the response of thinking men to a 
world's great need. To meet this great need, God has sent 
us a message of health reform which comprehends man's 
complete restoration, physically and spiritually. A quotation 
from Ministry of Healing, gives a key to the divinely 
appointed plan: "In His written Word and in the great 
book of nature, He has revealed the principles of life. It is 
our work to obtain a knowledge of these principles, and by 
obedience to cooperate with Him in restoring health to the 
body as well as to the soul." p. 115 

The accompanying diagram, (Fig. L) will help to bring 
before our minds the Bible picture of our original home, and 
of God's tender care over His erring children in giving them 
light and hope through all the different phases of their rebell- 
ion and apostasy; and it shows that He is actually leading 
them back step by step to Eden restored. He who created 
man and Who understands his needs, appointed Adam his 
food, as it is written, "Behold, I have given you every herb 
yielding seed, and every tree, in which is the fruit of a tree 
yielding seed; to you it shall be for food." Gen. 1:29. A. 



Foods, Their Uses in the Body 15 

R. V. After the fall, when the ground was cursed for man's 
sake, the herb of the field was added to his diet. 

Then we are brought down to the time of the flood, when 
all vegitation was destroyed by water, God permitted man to 
eat flesh. Next we find the people of God down in the land 
of Egypt where they were in heavy bondage, after which the 
Lord brought them out with a strong hand and by an out- 
stretched arm to make them the depositaries of His holy law, 
and through them it was designed that all the world should 
come to a knowledge of the true God. Their health was 
jealously guarded, and they were given a fleshless diet. 
God desired to make them His peculiar treasure above all 
people; but they cried for flesh, so He permitted them to eat 
clean flesh. 

Then we come down to the end of the Jewish dispensation, 
at the time when the gospel was preached to the Gentiles, 
saying, "Ye are the temple of God." "There shall in no 
wise enter into it anything unclean." 

In ancient time, a distinction between things clean and 
things unclean was made in all matters of diet. This was no 
arbitrary distinction, for the things prohibited were unwhole- 
some, and the fact that they were pronounced unclean taught 
the lesson that the use of injurious foods is defiling. 

To the chosen people of God, the laws relating to both 
physical and spiritual well being were made plain, and on 
condition of obedience He assured them: "The Lord will 
take away from thee all sickness." Deut. 7. 15 "And ye 
shall serve the Lord your God, and He shall bless thy bread 
and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst 
of thee." -Ex. 23:25. These promises are for us to-day. 
The same principle which directed in giving these sanitary 
laws and regulations in times of old, and which has been the 
foundation in every true reform to the present time, is no 
less powerful to-day, and is summed up in these words: 
"Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, 



16 Foods, Their Uses in the Body 

do all to the glory of God." -1 Cor. 10: 31. This principle, if 
heeded, will guide in all matters of diet and hygiene, as in 
every act of life. It will preserve us from intemperance in 
all its varied forms. "Every practice which destroys the 
physical, mental or spiritual energies, is sin. The laws of 
nature, as truly as the precepts of the decalogue, are divine; 
and only in obedience to them can health be recovered and 
preserved." 

There is great need to-day of that education that not 
merely teaches right methods in the treatment of the sick, 
but which encourages right habits of living, and spreads a 
knowledge of right principles. The desire of God for every 
human being is expressed in these words: "Beloved, I wish 
above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, 
even as thy soul prospereth. " 3 John 2. Every "Thou shalt 
not," whether in physical or moral law, implies a promise. 
If we obey it, blessing will attend our steps, and we will 
know the meaning of the promise of God to His people which 
says, "I am the Lord that healeth thee." Ex. 15:26. 

Food Economy 

"Economy is not saving, but wisely spending." Ruskin 

When we have ascertained that a food is rich in nutritive 
constituents, and that it is of a nature to be easily digested in 
the stomach, we have still to find whether the nutriment it 
yields is obtained at a reasonable cost. When one realizes 
that the market price of a food is no indication of its real 
money value, the practical importance of such a test is more 
convincingly felt, because in the market one usually pays for 
flavor and rarity, not for nutritive qualities. To the work- 
ing classes, who spend on an average fifty per cent of their 
wages for food supply, such knowledge is of special value. 
By a study of the chemical analysis of various foods bought 
for a particular sum, this test may be applied without diffi- 
culty. See Fig. 2. 



r 



lU 

H 
O 

a 
ft 



ECONOMY 



? 

H-l 







P 



iU 

o 



s.S 



< iM 

H z; 



i 



J- ill 

04 H 



tt. 
o 

<o 



s 









i 
i 



<0 



i 



i 





^ 

.ds 
<< 






4 



M 

a 
& 

ft; 
^ 



S tj 
^y c 



? 






5 



IU 



a: 
o 

i4 

< 

u 



18 Food Economy 

It will be seen that for energy (calories) , grains lead the 
way, for instance, nearly ten times as much nourishment 
can be obtained for twenty cents worth of wheat flour as for 
the same amount invested in trout or eggs; even more value 
is obtained for the same money when invested in cornmeal. 
In the matter of protied material, the legumes come first, 
while most of the grains contain proteid in a liberal propor- 
tion. 

When the flesh of animals is used as food, there is great 
danger of excess of proteid material. Besides being of a 
stimulating character, it contains no carbohydrate to offset 
the large per cent of proteid. One advantage of using food 
of vegetable origin, is that in their growth vegetables secrete 
no poisons; whereas, in all animals the very process of life 
consists in the breaking down of tissues and the formation of 
various poisons. These poisons are in the flesh when the 
animal is killed, and no amount of cooking can remove them. 
Thus, by taking our food in the vegetable form, we avoid 
burdening the system with such a quantity of harmful substan- 
ces, which must be eliminated from the system only at a great 
sacrifice to the vital organs. Many people seem to be under 
the impression that bodily strength and health are dependent 
upon the use of flesh meats. A quotation again from Min- 
istry of Healing, throws much light on this question, and 
points out in a simple manner the advantages to be had in a 
simple and natural diet above that of a more complex nature. 

"It is a mistake to suppose that mucular strength depends 
on the use of animal food. The needs of the system can be 
better supplied, and more vigorous health can be enjoyed, 
without its use. The grains, with fruits, nuts, and vegetables, 
contain all the nutritive properties necessary to make good 
blood. These elements are not so well or so fully supplied 
by a flesh diet. Had the use of flesh been essential to health 
and strength, animal food would have been included in the 
diet appointed man in the beginning. 

"When the use of flesh food is discontinued, there is often 



Food Economy 19 

a sense of weakness, a lack of vigor. Many urge this as 
evidence that flesh food is essential; but it is because foods 
of this class are stimulating, because they fever the blood 
and excite the nerves, that they are so missed. Some will 
find it as difficult to leave off flesh-eating as it is for the 
drunkard to give up his dram; but they will be the better for 
the change. 

' 'When flesh food is discarded, its place should be supplied with 
a variety of grains, nuts, vegetables, and fruits, that will be 
both nourishing and appetizing.' 1 Ministry of Healing. 

It would seem that the use of flesh meats must be doubly 
objectionable now, since disease in animals is so rapidly 
increasing. Those who use flesh as food little know of what 
they are eating. Tuberculosis, cancer, and other fatal dis- 
eases are communicated by the use of contaminated meat. 
True reform always replaces an evil with something better. 
So, in the matter of diet, nature presents to us a field of bound- 
less wealth, the Creator's choice for us, a plenteous store to 
choose from, and at prices within the reach of every creature. 
There is a rhyme that beautifully expresses this truth with 
its resultant tribute: 

"Eat life from Life's fresh growing garden, 
Drink life from its myriad store, 

Give life, and its flow 

E'er increasing will go 
Again to your open door." 

Health reform, as any other true reform, is a matter of 
education, and must be progressive; vital principles are 
involved in which are treasured up wisdom of the highest 
order for every seeker after health and truth. There has 
recently been formed throughout the United States a number 
of different societies for the purpose of studying the best 
means of providing for the table foods which do not harbor 
pestilence and disease, and for studying the development of 
the culinary art in the home in harmony with right principles. 
Thus it is plainly seen that the minds of thinking people are 



20 Food Economy 

being awakened to see the importance of exercising sound 
judgment and good common sense in the matter of the care 
and preservation of health. 

The following course of lessons is in no way intended as a 
complete guide to hygienic cookery. Of the great variety 
of ways in which the grains, fruits, nuts, and vegetables may 
be prepared into dishes that are healthful and nourishing, 
only a few of the most practical can be taken up in this 
course. One of the main objects is to give some of the 
general principles essential to success in this work, followed 
by practical illustrations of methods used. For home and 
class work this course consists of a series of sixteen lessons, 
two lessons each week, each session occupying two hours. 
Eight pupils constitute a class, at which time practical work 
is done. Due recognition is given to the study of the nutri- 
tive value of foods, their digestibility, combinations, etc., 
also menu-making and the general principles involved in the 
making of the same. 

This suggestive course of lessons, designed especially for 
demonstration and field work, may be modified by the 
instructor according to convenience to the occasion, or to 
the length of time given for class periods. A previous study 
of the recipes and instructions following will help to make 
the work very simple and easily understood when the hour 
comes for class. 



Food Economy 21 

Suggestive Course of Lessons 

Lesson 1. Corn Bread, Baked Lima Bean Puree, Whole- 
wheat Sticks, Strawberry Whip. 

Lesson 2. Juleinne Soup, Corn Nut Pie, Germea Sticks, 
Sago Fruit Mold. 

Lesson 3. Cream of Tomato, Hoe Cake, Prune Pudding, 
Nut Cero and Potato Stew with Dumplings. 

Lesson 4- Salads, Lettuce and Tomato, Cold Slaw, Celery 
Salad, Stuffed Beet Salad, Jellied Tomato Salad, Potato 
Salad. Dressings, Mayonnaise, Boiled Dressing, Cream 
Dressing. 

Lesson 5. Noodles, Fruit Crisps, Cream of Potato Soup, 
Banana Loaf. 

Lesson 6. Egg Nogg, Gruels, Strawberry Toast, Browned 
Rice, Cream Peas on Toast. 

Lesson 7. Layer Cake, Frosting, Macaroni with Olives, 
Grape Blanc Mange. 

Lesson 8. Vegetable Gelatin, Orange Jelley, Strawberry 
Jelley, Jelley Apple, Pie Making (Crust) Apple, Prune. 

Lesson 9. Fruit Salads, Stuffed Date Salad, Fruit Basket, 
Fruit and Nuts, Apple and Date, Fruit Mold. 

Lesson 10. Legume Cutlets, Brazil Nut Sauce, Fruit Soup, 
Macaroni and Rice Croquettes. 

Lesson 11. New England Stew, Nut Roast, Tomato Sauce, 
Cream of Green Peas, Walnut Sticks. 

Lesson 12. Baked Dressing, Brown Sauce, Potage St. 
Germain, Lentil and Rice Patties, Cream Tapioca. 



22 Essentials to Success 

Preparation of Foods 

The manner of preparing our food has much to do with 
our usefulness in this life, and with the building of our 
characters. The health of the family may be safeguarded 
by a careful, well-ordered diet, and this subject should appeal 
to every thinking mother. As a science, cooking is one of 
the most essential in practical life, and more than this it is 
one of the fine arts. Our aim should not be simply to arrange 
some concoction to appeal to a perverted appetite, without^ 
any consideration of its digestive qualities. Our cooks need 
education in making foods that nourish. Imperfect know- 
ledge of cooking leads to diseases of every kind; and both 
children and adults suffer as a consequence. 

The object sought in cooking is two-fold; first, to render 
the food more digestible; second, to develop its flavors, 
making it more palatable and inviting. No indifference 
should be manifested in the preparation of food. If the food 
eaten is not relished, the body will not be so well nourished. 
Food should be prepared in such a manner that it will be 
appetizing as well as nourishing. A glance at Plate I. will 
show us the foods which contain the highest per cent of nutri- 
tive value. Vegetables contain a small amount of nutriment. 
They are valuable, however, for their flavors and for the large 
quantity of organic fluid and mineral matter which they con- 
tain. Combined with grains and nuts, they furnish the needed 
bulk to the food. The grains make a highly nutritious food, 
and with nuts and fruit, make a perfect and ideal diet. 

Essentials to Success 

The pre-requisite to success in this work is similar to that 
in any other kind of work, viz., "Plan, then work out your 
plan.' 1 Take the preparation of the first recipe given for 
whole wheat puffs, for an example. 

The first step to be taken is to see that the fire is built in 
time, so the oven will be of the proper temperature when the 



Essentials to Success 23 

batter is ready. Use only heavy iron gem pans, which should 
be put in the oven to heat while the batter is in preparation. 
Have all the ingredients measured, and the needed utensils 
all at hand before starting to conbine the articles for bread. 
This is very essential in all baking; especially so in making 
aerated breads, cakes, etc. Another point that needs to be 
emphasized is the need of accurate measurments. There are 
some simple things which an experienced cook can make with- 
out taking the trouble to measure, but how often we hear 
the remark made of "good luck" or "bad luck "with a recipe. 
Now there is no such thing as "luck," for the simple reason 
that every effect has its cause, and this is as true in cooking 
as in other kinds of work. If we have a good recipe and 
follow it exactly, using exact measurements, there is no 
reason why we should not get the same results each time. 

The ordinary kitchen cup, holding one-half pint, with 
divisions indicating the half, third, and fourth parts of a cup- 
ful, is generally taken as the standard. Unless otherwise 
stated, a cup, tablespoon, or teaspoon of liquid or dry materials 
means a measure that is "level full.''' In dry measure this is 
best accomplished by filling the measure full and running the 
blade of a knife over the top with the edge outward to make 
it level. Care should be taken not to pack the ingredients; 
for this reason, weighing is always considered the safest, 
although not always as convenient as measuring. 

It might be well to state here that there are many measur- 
ing cups on the market, sold as one-half pint cups, that 
hold quite a little more than that amount. Care should be 
exercised in getting a cup measure which holds one-fourth of 
a quart. If a larger one is used, allowance must be made. 

When oil is called for in a recipe for shortening or for 
cooking, the refined cottonseed oil is generally used. Being 
tasteless and odorless, it can be used with good success where 
free fat is necessary. Dairy butter may be used in the place 
of these fats in most instances, using a little more of the 
butter than when the pure fat is used. There is, however, 



24 Bread 

great danger of disease through the use of butter. The per 
centage of turberculous cattle in herds from which our pub- 
lic milk supply is derived, is astounding. As the cream rises 
to the surface of the milk, the tubercle bacilli lodged therein 
find access to our foods and to oar tables through the use of 
butter. Milk when used should b^ thoroughly sterilized. 
This can be accomplished by putting the milk into a double 
boiler and heating it to a temperature of 160 F., and keeping 
it at that temperature for ten minntes, then setting the 
inner part of the boiler, with milk, into cold water to cool. 
By this method the milk is not chemically changed, as it is 
when boiled, and there is less danger of contracting disease 
through its use. 

As a guide in measuring, the following table will be help- 
ful, and may be followed with good results. 

3 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon 
2 tablesp ons of sugar or liquid - 1 ounce 
16 tablespoons 1 cup 

4 cups - 1 quart 
4 cups sifted flour 1 pound 
2 cups sugar, water, and most liquids " 

Bread 

Bread is the most important article of diet, and deserves 
more attention than it receives. Considering the convenien- 
cies which exist everywhere, and the widespread knowledge 
of breadmaking, it seems unnecessary and wrong to find poor 
bread on the table. Home made bread requires care and 
attention; and then you have the real staff of life. 

Breads may be divided into two classes : 1. Unfermented- 
made light by the introduction of air into the dough or batter; 
2. Fermented made light by a ferment, yeast being usually 
employed. Space will not permit at this time to speak of 
the ill effects on the system following the use of bi-carbon- 
ate of soda and baking powders in breadmaking; it may suffice 
to say that they are extremely harmful and unnecessary. 



Bread 25 

"Soda causes inflammation of the stomach, and of ten poisons 
the entire system. " Air may be incorporated into a batter by 
beating. The use of eggs will aid in the process; because 
the white of egg, on account of its viscous nature, readily 
catches air and helps convey it into the batter. The follow- 
ing recipe for wholewheat puffs will help to illustrate these 
principles. 

Unfermented Batter Breads 

Wholewheat Puffs. While it has been quite customary in 
making this bread to allow one egg to each dozen puffs, with 
the addition of a little cream to the milk, it will be found 
that by using an average of one and one-half eggs to each 
dozen puffs, and omitting the cream, the expense in most 
cases is about the same as when the cream is used, and it 
makes the puffs very light and fine grained. The inexperi- 
enced find very little trouble in making nice light bread by 
this method. 

1J cups pastry flour, J cup wholewheat flour, 1 cups 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 eggs separate. 

Sift the white flour and salt into mixing bowl, add the 
wholewheat flour unsifted. Separate the eggs, add the milk 
and yolks to the flour, and stir until smooth with a wire 
batter whip. Beat the whites stiff and dry, pour the batter 
gradually into the beaten whites, folding it in by running a 
batter whip from the edge or side of the bowl down through 
the center and lifting it up so the batter will drop off into 
the bowl; repeat until it is thoroughly mixed, but do not stir. 
Remove the irons from the oven and set them on the edge of 
the stove; rub them with an oiled cloth or brush to prevent 
sticking. Pour the batter from a pitcher into the molds, 
filling them just barely full. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

A few dried currants or seedless raisins, washed and dried 
in a towel, may be sprinkled into each mold just before putt- 
ing them into the oven, if desired. 



26 Bread 

Bran Puffs. 1 cups pastry flour, | cup bran, 1 cups milk, 
1 teaspoon salt, 3 eggs. 

Make a batter of the flour, bran, salt, milk, and yolks, 
and finish the same as for wholewheat puffs. 

Puffs may also be made by using one egg to two cups of 
milk, and enough strong bread flour to make a batter so 
thick that, when the batter whip is lifted out, the batter 
which flows from the whip will pile up slightly in the bowl 
instead of making a hole in the batter. Do not separate the 
egg. Mix the milk, egg, salt, and flour, and beat for a few 
minutes until it is perfectly smooth and free from lumps, 
then turn into hot oiled gem irons, and bake until nicely 
browned, about thirty minutes or more. 

Corn Bread. The best cornmeal is that made from the 
Eastern corn, well matured, and not ground too fine. If other- 
wise, it has a tendency to be sticky when made into bread, 
and will not give good satisfaction. 

No. 1. 1 cup cornmeal, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoons salt, 1J cups boiling water, 1 tablespoon 
cold water, 2 eggs separate. 

Sift the meal, flour, salt, and sugar into mixing bowl. Put 
one and one-fourth cups water in a small saucepan on the fire, 
and as soon as it comes to a good boil, set it on the table and 
add the tablespoon cold water, and immediately pour most 
of the hot water on the cornmeal, reserving about one-fourth 
cup, stir smooth, and add as much of the one-fourth cup 
water remaining to make a batter that will pile well in the 
bowl but not be stiff. Beat the eggs separately, have the 
whites very stiff, then fold the yolks into the whites. Pour 
the cornmeal batter into the beaten eggs, fold it in with a 
batter whip, and with a large spoon remove from the bottom 
or sides any cornmeal adhering to it, mix it lightly yet 
thoroughly, then pour it into an oiled baking pan, having it 
about one inch or one and a half inches deep. Bake in a 
moderately hot oven about thirty minutes. The reason for 



Bread 27 

adding a little cold water before pouring the hot liquid on 
the cornmeal, is because in pouring boiling hot water on 
cornmeal it is very likely to scald it too much and form a 
paste. In this manner it will absorb too much water and can 
not be made dry and mealy. Thus the necessity of having 
the water boiling hot before adding the cold water so as to 
get the right temperature. The hotter the water, the more 
water the meal will take up. By taking this precaution, the 
process is quite simple, and it makes a fine grained light 
bread. 

No. 2. 2 cups meal, J cup flour, 2J cups boiling milk, 2 
teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 3 eggs separately. 

Sift the meal, flour, sugar, and salt into mixing bowl; heat 
the milk in a double boiler and pour most of the hot milk on 
the cornmeal. Stir smooth, add as much of the remaining 
milk to make a batter as for No. 1., beat eggs separately, 
fold yolks into whites, then pour on the corn batter and fold 
it into the eggs, and bake the same as in the above recipe. 

Hoe Cake. No. 1. 1 cup cornmeal, 2 tablespoons flour, 1J 
cups milk; 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs separ- 
ately. 

Put the milk on the stove to heat in a double boiler. Sift 
the meal, flour, salt, and sugar together into a mixing bowl. 
As soon as the milk is boiling hot, pour one cupful of it on 
the cornmeal and stir smooth; add as much of the remaining 
one-fourth cup to make a batter that will not run, but that 
will pile up high in the bowl, it should not be stiff. 

Beat the eggs separately, fold the yolks into the stiffly 
beaten whites, then pour on the scalded meal, folding it into 
the eggs with a batter whip, then from the side of a large 
spoon drop it onto an oiled baking sheet in oblong shapes 
and bake on the top grate in a hot oven until a nice brown. 

By using one tablespoon oil, or its equivalent one-fourth 
cup cream only one egg need be used. 



28 Bread 

Hot Cakes. 1 cup coarse zwieback crumbs, \ cup flour, 
1 teaspoon salt, 2J cups separated milk, 4 eggs. 

Heat the milk to about 140 F., and pour it over the crumbs. 
Sift the flour and salt into a bowl, separate the eggs, and 
add enough milk to the yolks to take up the flour, making a 
thick smooth batter. Add this batter to the crumbs, mix 
well, beat the whites stiff and dry, fold the whole batter 
into the whites. Bake on an oiled soapstone griddle. 

Unfermented Dough Breads 

The earliest forms of bread were "unleavened breads." 
This term has been applied to hard breads, such as the "pass- 
over cakes" of the Israelites, and other breads in the form 
of thin cakes, sticks, etc. These hard breads are without 
doubt the most wholesome, because they encourage thorough 
mastication; being free from any chemical or ferment, they 
are very easily digested in the stomach. Care should be 
exercised in making this dough that the flour and water be 
mixed in just the right proportion. If the dough is too soft, 
the sticks or crackers will be very hard. A "cracker dough" 
must be a stiff dough, so that quite a good deal of pres- 
sure must be put on it in order to roll it out. All these breads 
should be baked in a medium oven, should be well done, but 
not browned very much. When they will break off crisp, 
they should be taken out of the oven. 

Cream Rolls. If cups pastry flour, J cup rich cream, \ 
cup cold water, teaspoon salt. 

Sift the flour and salt together into a mixing bowl, add the 
water to the cream and mix well. Then pour the wetting on 
the flour all at once, and draw in the flour from the sides of 
the bowl through the center so as to get the moisture evenly 
distributed through the flour, but do not stir it into a batter 
in which some of the flour will be watersoaked and the rest 
hardly moistened. Work it into a dough for a few minutes 
on a slightly floured board. Roll it out to about one-third 
inch in thickness, and cut it into long strips about one-third 



Bread 29 

inch wide. Roll them on a board and cut them into two and 
one-half inch to three inch lengths. Lay them in a baking 
pan, leaving a little space between them, and bake in a med- 
ium oven until crisp and a light brown. 

Wholewheat Sticks. 1 cup pastry flour, \ cup whole- 
wheat flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, \\ tablespoons oil, J cup 
cold water. 

Sift the flour and salt into a bowl, add the oil and rub the 
flour between the hands to distribute the oil evenly; then add 
the water all at once and mix as for cream rolls; knead on 
a board for a minute, and roll out into one-third inch thick- 
ness. Cut it with a dull knife into long strips about one- 
third inch wide, then cut crosswise into sticks about three 
inches in length. Bake in a medium oven until just crisp 
and a very light brown in color. 

Fruit Crisps No. 1. If cups pastry flour, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, | teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons oil, cup water, cup 
ground sultana raisins or figs. 

Sift the flour and salt into mixing bowl; add the oil and 
rub it well into the flour; add the water all at once and mix 
as for whole wheat sticks. Roll it out into a long thin sheet 
as for pie crust. Have the raisins or figs previously washed 
and dried in a clean towel, put through a fine mill, lay on a 
well floured board and roll out in a thin sheet so as to cover 
half of the dough; recover with the other half and roll out 
quite thin so it will be pressed well together; cut it into 
squares, crescents or diamond shapes, prick them through with 
a fork, and bake in a very quick oven. Fruit sugars burn at 
a very low degree of heat, so the crisps should bake only 
until the crust is baked. If the fruit is allowed to cook it 
will harden. 

Fruit Crisps No. 2. Use mixture for cream rolls. Roll 
out very thin and finish as for No. 1. 

Walnut Sticks. \\ cups of pastry flour, cup wholewheat 
flour, cup chopped walnut meats, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1J 



30 Breads 

tablespoons of oil, i teaspoon of salt, and J cup of water. 

Sift the flour, sugar and salt into a mixing bowl, add the 
oil and the nut meats, mix as for wholewheat sticks. Bake 
in a medium oven until they will just break off crisp and be a 
very light brown. 

Germea Sticks. 1 cup germea, If cups pastry flour, cup 
cold water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 3 tablespoons 
oil. 

Put the germea into a mixing bowl by itself and pour over 
it cup cold water, that it may soak up while the balance 
of the recipe is in preparation. Sift the flour, salt and sugar 
into a bowl, add the oil, and rub the flour and oil between 
the hands until well mixed, then add the wetted germea and 
work it into a dough, knead it for a minute or two, then roll 
out and finish the same as for wholewheat sticks. 

Cocoanut Crisps, Wafers, Etc. Take the proportions given 
for making cream rolls, and add | cup of shredded cocoanut 
to the flour. Mix it into a dough as for cream rolls, roll out 
quite thin, and cut with a biscuit cutter or into any desired 
shape. Prick well with a fork and bake in a medium hot 
oven until crisp and a very light brown. 

Fermented Breads 

Weight for weight, bread must be considered one of the 
most nutritious of foods. The fact that more than three- 
fifths of it consists of solid nutriment and less than two-fifths 
water, gives it a special place in the list of foods, and with 
it there is no animal food and but few cooked vegetable foods 
that can make a comparison. 

In the study of the chemical composition of bread we find 
that two- thirds of the volume of a good loaf of bread is made 
up of gas, and of the solid part less than forty per cent con- 
sists of water. Of the chemical constituents necessary for 
proper nutrition, bread yields a large proportion of carbo- 
hydrates, a liberal amount of proteid and mineral matter, 

and a small amount of fat, making it one of the most nutri- 
tious and well-balanced articles of diet. 



Breads 31 

"The common use of superfine white flour in bread making 
is neither healthful nor economical." While the white flour 
products have a greater total nutritive value, they are really 
an impoverished food; for in rejecting the germ and the bran, 
the miller discards some of the most useful constituents of 
wheat. With the germ, proteid and fat are lost; and the 
bran being impregnated with mineral matter, when separated 
from the wheat leaves the bread void of these substances 
which are so necessary for the building of bone, brain, and 
nerves. To the natural taste there is something lacking, 




Fig. 3. 

Chemical composition of a loaf of wholewheat bread 

something not satisfying in the white bread, but which is 
found in that made from the whole grain. This leaves a 
craving which many attempt to satisfy with rich pastries, 
meat, spices, and condiments. Fine flour bread is also a fre- 
quent cause of constipation and other unhealthful conditions. 
In order to make good bread it is necessary to have good 
flour. The strength of a flour is determined by the quantity 
of gluten it contains. Gluten is the chief form of the proteid 
of wheat. Its elastic qualities when mixed with water, and 
acted upon by yeast, allow the gas formed to expand with- 
out danger of escape. The best flour generally proves to 
be the most economical, for while it costs more than inferior 



82 Bread 

grades, it is in reality cheaper, because a given quantity of 
good flour makes more and better bread than the same 
quantity of poor flour. The best bread flour is of a cream 
white color, and when a handful is taken and squeezed it 
should not retain the imprint of the fingers, but should fall 
like dry sand. Ordinary pastry flour when handled in this 
way will retain its shape in the hand, remaining in one lump. 

Quick rising bread, that is, bread which is brought out in 
five or six hours, requires more yeast than bread which is 
allowed to rise over night, but is generally more satisfactory; 
for the more times bread is allowed to rise, the lighter and 
finer grained it will be; but some of the wheat flavor will be 
destroyed. This is the reason that ordinary baker's bread is 
always lacking in that sweet, nutty, wheat flavor, which so 
characterizes home made bread, and which makes it so satis- 
fying. The idea, therefore, to be kept before us in bread 
making, is to produce an article rich in nutritive elements, 
toothsome, and easily digestible. 

Fermented bread is usually made by mixing to a dough, 
flour, water, salt, and yeast, a small amount of sugar being 
added to hasten fermentation. The dough is then kneaded 
until it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board; 
the object being to incorporate air and to distribute the 
yeast uniformly. It is then covered and allowed to rise until 
it doubles its bulk and does not respond to the touch; or 
when tapped sharply with the fingers, it gradually but stub- 
bornly begins to sink down. This will require all the way 
from three to three and one-half hours, and it is best accom- 
plished at a temperature ranging from 75 to 85 F. It is 
then pressed down in the center and worked together a little, 
turned over in the bowl and allowed to rise again until about 
half its former bulk. This will take about three-quarters of 

an hour or more. It is then turned out on a lightly floured 
board and kneaded a few minutes, to break the air bubbles 
and to distribute evenly the gas formed. Then it is molded 
into loaves, put into pans, and allowed to rise until it doubles 
its bulk, when it is ready for baking. 



Breads 33 

Bread should never be allowed to rise until it begins to fall 
of itself. At this stage it has risen too much and borders on 
sourness. There are three stages of fermentation; namely, 
alcoholic, acetous, and putrefactive. Bread should be baked 
during the alcoholic stage. If fermentation is allowed to go 
on after the yeast has done its work, bacterial action begins 
which results in sour bread. It is very important to know 
when the bread is sufficiently light after it has been placed 
in the pans. It should never be allowed to rise to its limit 
before it is put into the oven; but should continue to rise for 
the first ten to twelve minutes after it has been put into the 
oven. It is better to bake the bread a little too soon, than to 
allow it to rise too much. If it rises too much, it will be 
course grained and tasteless. If the bread should in any wise 
get too light in the pans, it may be molded over and allowed 
to rise again. 

To test the lightness of the dough in the pans, press the 
loaf gently with the finger, and if it responds quickly to the 
touch, it may be allowed to rise more. If it responds slowly 
it should be put into the oven immediately. 

Wholewheat or graham bread must not be allowed to go 
quite so far in the process of fermentation as white bread. 
Because of the bulkiness of the whole grain, the gas escapes 
more easily than from that made with a strong gluten flour. 
Graham and wholewheat bread should be watched closely 
during the different stages of development, as they rise and 
get light in less time than white bread. Where wholewheat 
flour is made from good hard wheat, that is, wheat which is 
grown where the summers are short and not too hot (as 
Dakota and Minnesota), the best bread is made from the 
whole grain using no white flour, or a very little. The dough 
is a little harder to handle, but you have the sweet wheat 
flavor. The mineral substances contained in wheat which 
are so essential to health are then retained in the bread, add- 
ing much to its flavor. 

For those who can not use the grain in this form, it is well 



84 Bread 

to use a little rye and oatmeal with the white flour, about 
one-third or one-fourth part rye and oatmeal to two or three 
parts best bread flour. 

The western wheat, also that grown farther south, is a soft 
wheat and does not of itself make good bread, but must be 
combined with a strong gluten flour. It is very often that 
graham or wholewheat flour is made from this kind of wheat; 
then it can only be used in bread making in the proportion 
of one part graham or wholewheat to two parts strong white 
bread flour, or about these proportions. 

Bread is also made by setting a sponge at the beginning, 
making a batter of the water, yeast, and flour, and letting it 
rise until the batter gets charged with the yeast, then add- 
ing any other ingredients, as fruit and shortening for fruit 
bread, the shortening for buns, or the cracked grain for 
coarse bread; and then working it all into a dough. Ordin- 
ary white bread, wholewheat, and graham, are often made 
by the same process. A sponge is sufficiently light when it 
appears frothy and is full of bubbles. It will not rise much. 
The time required will vary with the quantity and quality of 
yeast used, and the temperature of the room where it is set 
to rise. 

As a general rule,* with the best quality of bread flour, 
three measures of flour to one of water are required to make 
a dough of the proper consistency. For wholewheat or 
graham bread, a little less flour is used to the same amount 
of liquid. Buns and fruit bread which must be of a softer 
dough, require still less flour, as may be seen later. 

The most convenient yeast is that sold as compressed yeast. 
It should be used only when fresh, which may be determined 
by its light color and absence of dark streaks. When com- 
pressed yeast is not obtainable, very good results are 
secured by the use of the following recipe: 

Two cups sliced raw potatoes, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 cake 
dried yeast. 



Bread 35 

Add enough cold water to cover the sliced potatoes, and 
cook well done. Mash them through a colander, and add 
enough hot water to make one and one-half quarts in all. 
When cool, add the sugar and the yeast cake (which in the 
meanwhile has been dissolved in one-half cup of water), and 
mix well, cover tightly,' and let it stand in a warm room over 
night. In the morning it should be lively and covered with a 
white foam. 

For Ordinary Bread white, wholewheat, etc., use IJcups 
liquid yeast and f cup water to 6 cups good flour. For buns, 
fruit bread, etc., the yeast is used a very little stronger than 
for ordinary bread: 1 cups liquid yeast to | cup water. To 
keep this yeast, put it into a glass or stone jar, cover well, 
and keep it in a dark cool place. 

White Bread. 6 cups best bread flour, 1 pint water, 
ounce compressed yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon oil, 
1 tablespoon salt. 

Sift the flour into a mixing bowl and make it hollow in the 
middle; dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add the salt, 
sugar, and oil, and pour into the flour. Take out from the 
side a good handful of flour to be used on the board, draw in 
the flour with a large spoon and make it into a dough, turn 
out on a floured board; rub off all the particles of dough 
sticking to the sides and bottom of the dish, and knead until 
it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board, 
using just as little flour as possible to keep the bread from 
sticking to the board. By keeping the bread in motion con- 
tinuously, very little flour will be needed. The kneading of 
white bread will take about twenty minutes or more. Oil the 
bowl and drop bread in, turn it over in the bowl so it leaves 
the top oiled, which will help to keep a crust from drying on. 
Cover well and let it rise until it doubles its bulk and does not 
respond to the touch, using the test given above. This will 
take about three hours or more, then knock it down in the center 
and work it together, turn it over in the bowl, and let it rise 
until it is about one-half more than its former bulk, then 



36 Breads 

turn it out on a slightly floured board and work it together 
for a few minutes. Divide it into three pieces, knead each 
loaf into a hard ball, flatten down and roll the dough up into 
a hard roll, and drop it into an oiled bread tin. In molding the 
bread into loaves, it is very important that each loaf be well 
worked together. If the bread is put into pans in soft loaves, 
that is, soft because they were not worked enough, the bread 
will rise flat on top instead of rounded, and will be apt to 
fall when put into the oven. After being put into pans, 
brush over the top of each loaf with oil to keep a crust from 
drying on. 

Bread should be baked in a quick oven to begin with. The 
oven should not be so hot as to burn the outside of the loaf 
before the inside of the loaf is cooked, but should be of such 
a temperature that the bread may rise for the first ten min- 
utes or more, and then have sufficient crust to hold it up, 
when the fire should be closed up to hold a steady heat until 
the bread is done. For the small loaves, forty to forty-five 
minutes is generally sufficient; for the larger ones or those 
of ordinary size, one hour to an hour and a quarter. A well 
baked loaf may be lifted from the pan and placed upon the 
palm of the hands without burning it. This should always be 
the case when bread is well baked and the moisture evapor- 
ated. When done remove from the pans and lay on the side 
on a wire rack to cool. If brushed over the top with warm 
water just after taking them out of the oven, the crust of 
the bread will keep softer and it will give it a nice color. 

Wholewheat Bread. 3 cups white bread flour, 2 cups 
wholewheat flour, 1 pint water, ounce yeast, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 tablespoon oil, 1 tablespoon salt. 

Mix the dough the same as for white bread, only that it is 
not to be kneaded so long as white bread; work it enough to 
mix well, kneading it lightly, and put it into an oiled dish, 
cover, and finish the same as for white bread, only it needs 
a little closer watching and must not be quite so light in the 
pans as white bread. The wholewheat and graham flour 



Breads 37 

used in these recipes are made from the Western soft wheat 
mixed with a strong gluten white flour. 

Graham Bread. Same as wholewheat bread, except that 
graham flour is used instead of wholewheat. 

Rye Bread. Mix as for graham bread, except that rye 
flour is used instead of graham. With a little care more rye 
flour may be used, about equal quantities of rye and white 
flour. 

Fruit Bread, Rolls, Buns, Etc. 5 cups of bread flour, If 
cups water, \ ounce yeast, cup sugar, \ cup oil, 1 tablespoon 
salt, 2 cups sultana raisins, 2 eggs. 

The eggs may be omitted if desired. Sift the flour, salt, 
and sugar into a bowl, dissolve the yeast in the warm water 
(about 105 F.), add the beaten eggs, and pour it on one side 
of the flour in the bowl. Draw in enough flour to make a 
batter that will drop from a spoon, quite thick; cover, and 
let it rise until very light and full of bubbles, about one and 
a half to two hours. Then add the oil and beat it into the 
sponge until no oil is visible, care being taken not to get the 
dry flour mixed with oil, for "yeast does not readily absorb 
greased flour.' 1 When the oil is worked into the sponge, add 
the raisins, previously scalded and warm. Draw in the flour 
and work it into a dough. Turn out on a well floured board, 
and dust with flour to keep it from sticking to the hands; 
fold it over and work it together until well mixed, about ten 
minutes or more, then cover and let it rise to full proof as 
for white bread, using the same test for lightness. Then 
knock it down and work it well together, and let it rise again 
until it is about two-thirds its former bulk, then it is ready 
to be molded and put in pans. Finish the same as for white 
bread. 

The same dough may be made into buns or rolls, and if a 
finer grain is desired than this the dough may be pounded 
back the second time, letting it rest a half hour before mak- 
ing it into buns. This dough must always be a soft dough. 



$8 Soups 

Graham Buns. 3 cups bread flour, 1 cups graham flour, 
If cups water, ounce yeast, J cup oil, 2 teaspoons salt, 
cup sugar. 

Sift the white flour, salt, and sugar, into a mixing bowl, 
dissolve the yeast in the warm water, pour on one side of 
the white flour, and make a sponge as for fruit bread. 
When light and full of bubbles, add the oil and mix into the 
sponge by beating with a large spoon; add the graham flour 
and mix all into a dough. Have the board well floured to 
begin with, as this must be a very soft dough. Turn out the 
dough, sprinkle it over with a very little flour to keep it from 
sticking to the hands. Pat it down with the hands, fold it 
over and work it together until it is well mixed, using just 
enough flour to keep the dough from sticking to the board. 
Return the dough to the bowl, then cover it and let it rise 
until it is light, using the same test as for wholewheat bread; 
then knock it down in the center, turn it over in the bowl 
and let it rise until about one-third more than its former 
bulk, or for about twenty minutes; then turn out on a floured 
board, work together very lightly, mold and roll out into 
buns about one and one-half ounces in weight each, lay quite 
close together in an oiled pan, and let them rise until they 
respond very weakly to the pressure of the fingers; bake in 
a quick oven. 

Soups 

Soups are usually divided into two classes: 

1. Broths, or thin soups, to which may be added cooked 
grains or vegetables cut in various shapes and sizes for garni- 
ture, and to give variety and flavor. While these thin soups 
are lacking in nutriment to be found in those made of more 
solid foods., they are valuable, however, for the stimulating 
effect they have on the gastric juice, and when taken at the 
beginning of the meal, and in small quantities, they aid in 
the digestion of the more solid foods. 



Soups 39 

2. Those which usually have as their basis cooked vege- 
tables, grains, or legumes, forced through a strainer and 
diluted with the liquid in which they were cooked, or with 
milk or cream, or both. Like all other foods, soups require 
the action of the saliva for digestion, and when eaten slowly 
with some dry foods as sticks or crutons, are both appetizing 
and nourishing. 

Cream of Tomato. 1 cup tomato pulp, cup thin cream, 1 
tablespoon flour, salt to taste. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler. Bring the tomato to 
boil in another sauce pan, thicken each slightly with the flour 
braided smooth in cold water; then set on the edge of the 
stove and pour the tomato into the prepared cream, season 
to taste and strain again through a fine strainer and serve. 
By thickening the cream and tomato slightly before mixing, 
the curdling, which is such a frequent cause of disappoint- 
ment in making this soup, is largely avoided. 

Cream of Corn. cup corn, 1J cups milk, i cup rich cream, 
1 tablespoon flour. 

Grind the corn through a fine mill; put it into a double 
boiler with the milk, and heat to boiling point; braid the 
flour smooth in cold milk or water, stir into the corn, and 
let it cook twenty minutes; mash through a strainer and fin- 
ish with the cream; add salt to taste, and serve. 

Cream of Green Peas. can of green peas, & cup water, 
1 cup milk, cup rich cream. 

Add the water to the peas, and heat it to the boiling point, 
then mash them through a colander. Heat the milk and 
cream separately in a double boiler. Force the peas through 
a colander, add the hot milk and cream, season, and strain 
through a fine strainer. Fresh peas are far the best for this 
soup when in season. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 1 cups sliced raw potato, 1J cups 
cold water, 1 green onion, 1 cup thin cream, salt to taste. 
Add the cold water to the sliced potato, onion, and salt, 



40 Soups 

and boil until the potato is well done. Force it through a 
fine colander. Have the cream heated separately in a double 
boiler, and pour into the potato; salt to taste, strain through 
a fine strainer, finish with chopped parsley if desired, and 
serve. 

Juilenne. cup potato, $ cup carrot, J cup turnip, cup 
cauliflowerlets, 2 stalks celery, 1 ripe tomato, 1 small onion, 
2 cups water, 2 cups bean broth, chopped parsley. 

Cut all the vegetables except the cauliflower into thin 
shreds of about one-half inch lengths. Add the carrot, turnip, 
celery, onion, and salt to the water, and when they are just 
barely done add the cauliflowerlets, potato, and tomato and 
cook until all is thoroughly done, but avoid mashing them up. 
Finish with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Potage St. Germain. 1 cup sliced raw potato, can green 
peas, cup celery, 1 tablespoon onion, 2 cups water. 

Add the sliced potato, celery, onion, and salt to the water, 
and boil until potatoes are well cooked. Add the peas, bring 
to a boil, mash up well with an egg beater, and force through 
a fine strainer; serve with crutons. 

Fruit Soup. 1 cup blackberry or strawberry juice, cup 
water, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoons sago, sweeten 
to taste. 

Heat the liquid to the boiling point in a double boiler, wash 
the sago and drain well from the water, stir into the fruit 
juice; let it cook in double boiler until the sago is transparent. 
When served cold, drop a choice ripe berry into each bowl 
on dishing up. 

When making cream soups from fresh vegetables as lettuce, 
cauliflower, celery, onion, etc., the vegetable is simply used 
as a flavor, the body of the soup being made from a mixture 
of potato, water and onion, and the vegetable added for 
flavor and garniture. Thus, by being able to make one of 
these soups, others can be made by substituting different 
vegetables for flavor and change. As an illustration we give 
the following one: 



Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees 41 

Cream of Lettuce. 1 cups sliced raw potato, 1 cups cold 
water, 1 large head lettuce shredded, 1 round tablespoon onion, 
1 cup milk, cup thick cream, salt to taste. 

Pat the sliced potato, onion, water, and salt on to cook, 
and when the potato is about done, add the shredded lettuce 
and let it boil rapidly for about ten minutes or more. Have 
the milk and cream heated in another vessel. Mash the 
potato and lettuce through a colander, adding the hot milk 
and cream as it goes through. Put again through a fine 
strainer, serve with croutons or small bits of shredded and 
wilted lettuce. Very green, or outside leaves of lettuce are 
bitter, and should not be used for soup, but should be first 
removed. 

Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees 

In seeking to provide a balanced diet, a few suggestions 
may be helpful. In the first place, flesh foods contain a very 
high per cent of proteid matter, with no carbohydrates; thus, 
in a given quantity eaten, too much proteid is the inevitable 
result. This high per cent of proteid, as stated in the pre- 
ceding chapter, is productive of no good, and is a cause of 
positive harm. Therefore, it should not be our aim to bring 
the per cent of proteid up to that contained in meat; this 
would only tend to defeat one of the main objects of health 
reform, that of providing a balanced diet. Our aim should 
be to provide a diet that will take into consideration the 
main functions of food in the body. 

The comparison between the body and the locomotive engine 
serves as an illustration for studying the fuel value of foods. 
While iron is essential to keep the engine in repairs, the 
greatest demand, however, will be for fuel with which to heat 
the boiler. So in the vital economy; proteid like the iron is 
essential for the growth and repair of tissue and the body 
waste; but beyond this it is inferior to carbohydrates and 
fats, and as different kinds of wood and coal are capable of 
giving off different degrees of heat, and also giving off that 



U Legumes 

, 

heat in longer or shorter periods of time; so different food 
stuffs work in about the same way. Also different kinds of 
coal, after being burned, leave a residue of clinkers to be 
raked out of the furnace; so with the overeating of proteid 
foods, there is an extra amount of work for the kidneys to 
rid the system of accumulated poisons. 

Then we should remember that fresh vegetables are by no 
means the most nutritious food, for, as may be clearly seen, 
water enters largely into their composition. Some, in leaving 
off flesh foods, make a mistake in making vegetables, as roots 
and tubers, the principal article of diet. These vegetables, 
combined with grains and nuts, will give a well balanced diet. 
The legumes are a highly nutritious food, and when properly 
prepared may be used in a variety of ways in making dishes 
that are wholesome and pleasing to the taste. They are. 
however, a heavy food, and for people leading sedentary 
lives, they should not be indulged too freely. Grains, com- 
bined with nuts and nut foods and some vegetables, as corn, 
peas, tomatoes, etc., will give a great variety to the bill of 
fare of dishes that are simple, healthful, and nourishing. 

The various nut foods on the market, composed chiefly of 
grains and nuts, contain the nutritive elements of food in a 
very concentrated form, and should not be eaten too freely, 
but should be combined with other foods. A few examples 
of how they may be made into appetizing dishes will be given 
in some of the following recipes. Other nut foods of a simi- 
lar nature may be used in the place of the ones given, if 
desired. 

Legumes 

The most common representatives of this family which are 
used as foods are the various kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils. Taking the world over, legumes are, next to cereals, 
the most valuable and the most extensively used among 
vegetable foods. They are found in all climates and countries. 
The lentil is one of the most ancient of food plants. It has 



Legumes 43 

been grown from early times in Asia and the Meditarranean 
countries. 

Many people with weak digestion often experience distress 
after eating boiled beans or peas. By removing the hulls in 
their preparation this is largely overcome, and in this man- 
ner they may be made into a variety of ways that are appe- 
tizing as well as nourishing. When they are known to be 
old, they should be soaked over night before cooking. 

Stewed Lima Beans. Pick the beans over, wash them 
thoroughly, and lift them out from the water to remove any 
small pieces of grit that may be on the bottom of the kettle. 
Put them on the fire in cold water, add one teaspoonful of 
vegetable oil to each cup of beans, and let them boil gently, 
after boiling begins, until they are thoroughly done; salt 
should be added after they have boiled a half hour or so, to 
give them flavor. 

Lima Bean Puree. Drain the beans well, and mash them 
through a colander to remove the hulls. If they are very 
soft, set them in the oven to dry out a little, to about the 
consistency of a mealy mashed potato. To two cups lima 
bean puree add one-fourth cup rich cream, salt to taste, put 
in fireproof baker, mark on the top with a knife, brush over 
with milk or cream, and put upon the top grate of the oven 
to brown, and send to table. This mixture may be shaped 
into croquettes or cutlets and baked, then served with a 
gravy. The recipe given above for stewed lima beans may 
be taken as a guide in cooking most of the legumes, of which 
the following will be simply variations from this rule. 

Stewed Red Beans, Creole. 1 cups red beans, 6 large 
whole or 2 cups stewed tomatoes, 2 round tablespoons minced 
onion, 1 tablespoon oil, salt, 1 small clove garlic. 

Prepare the beans as for stewed lima beans, put the oil, 
the onion and garlic on the stove in a small saucepan and 
cook a few minutes, but do not brown the onion. Add this 
to the beans with salt, and cook until extra well done, then 



44 Legumes 

have the ripe tomatoes peeled and quartered, add them to 
the cooked beans, and let them cook for ten minutes after 
boiling begins, or longer. Season with celery salt, dish up 
with a little chopped parsley on top. 

Savory Lentils and Rice. 1 cup lentils, 2 cups boiled rice, 
1 round tablespoon minced onion, 1 tablespoon minced celery 
or J teaspoon celery salt, a sprinkle of sage, 1 cup stewed 
tomatoes. 

Wash and prepare the lentils as for the stewed red beans, 
add cold water and put on to boil. Make the oil quite hot, 
drop in the minced onion and celery for a few minutes, and 
then add it to the lentils, cook until well done with salt to 
taste, then add the tomato, and boiled rice, and a little sage, 
let it boil up well and serve with a sprinkling of parsley on 
top; a little rich cream may be used to finish, if desired. 

Lentil and Rice Patties. 1J cups boiled rice, 1 cup lentil 
puree, 1 egg, J cup cream, salt and sage to taste. 

Mix all the ingredients, and divide into portions about the 
size of a large egg. Form into small cakes about two-thirds 
of an inch thick, lay in an oiled baking pan, brush over with 
cream or milk, and bake on the top grate of a hot oven until 
a light brown, serve with a tomato or cream sauce. 

Legume Cutlets. 1 cup lima bean puree, 1 can green peas, 
cup zwieback crumbs, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon thick cream, or 
1 teaspoon oil, salt to taste. 

Bring the peas to boil on the stove and drain well (saving 
the broth for gravy), mash them through a colander, and set 
into the oven to dry out a little so it can be handled, mix all 
the ingredients with the egg beaten slightly, then divide as 
for lentil rice patties, but instead of making them round, roll 
them out in the shape of a long cork, only that one end be 
pointed, bend the point to one side to give it a curve, flatten 
down with knife to about two-thirds inch thick, mark on 
top with knife, brush over with milk or cream, and bake the 
same as lentil rice patties. Serve with cream sauce flavored 
with the broth of green peas and a little of the pulp, if desired. 



Legumes 45 

Dried peas are generally of two kinds, the green split 
peas, called "Scotch peas" and the yellow peas, known as 
"English split peas." 

Croquettes of Scotch Peas. 1 cup pea puree, cup soaked 
stale bread, 3 tablespoons rich cream, 2 teaspoons minced 
onion, salt to taste. 

Put the cream and onion into a sauce pan on the stove, and 
reduce down to about one-third. Mix all the ingredients well, 
roll into round balls about the size of a large egg, form into 
squares with a knife, having them about one inch thick, one 
inch wide, and one and a half inches in length; mark on the top 
with a knife. Brush over lightly with milk or cream, and 
bake on the top grate in a hot oven. 

Baked Corn Xut Pie. 1 cup corn pulp, cup warm milk, 
^ cup cream, J cup light colored zwieback crumbs, cup diced 
nuttolene, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, salt and celery 
salt to taste. 

Heat the milk to about 120 F. and pour over the crumbs; 
grind the corn through a fine mill and add to the crumbs with 
the egg slightly beaten, and salt and celery salt to taste; 
mix well. Put the onion and cream into a small sauce pan 
and reduce to about half its quantity of liquid, add the diced 
nuttolene, salt to taste, and when hot through remove from 
the fire. Fill a small baking pan half full of the mixture, 
sprinkle over it the nuttolene, then recover with the corn 
mixture. Bake in a medium oven until set and a nice brown; 
let it stand fifteen minutes, then cut into squares and dish up. 

Cream Noodles. 2 eggs, cup flour, J cup thin cream, salt 
to taste. 

Beat one fair sized egg slightly, add the flour all at once, 
mix well with a heavy spoon, turn out on a floured board, 
and knead a few minutes; divide into three pieces, roll out 
into thin sheets, have them well floured, and let them lie to 
dry out a little, then cut them into long strips about one 
and one-half inches in width, they are then cut crosswise 
into fine shreds. Have salted water boiling hot, sprinkle 



46 Legumes 

in the noodles; if they are put in all at once they will stick 
together. Let them cook fifteen minutes, drain and return 
to the sauce pan, cover and set on the edge of the stove, 
add the cream, and when all is hot add the beaten egg, mix 
well and do not let boil; just heat enough to thicken so it 
will dish up on the plate and not run; salt to taste. 

Spanish Rice, i cup uncooked rice, cup cold water, f cup 
tomato pulp, i cup rich cream, 1 tablespoon diced onion, 1 
tablespoon diced celery, 1 teaspoon browned flour, J teaspoon 
sage, salt to taste. 

Brown the rice in a small pan on the stove or in a hot oven 
until a golden brown, wash and put it into the inner part of 
a double boiler. Add the water and salt and set on a good 
fire and let it boil rapidly until the water is almost evapor- 
ated and the rice looks dry, then set into the outer part of 
double boiler and let steam. Put the finely diced onion and 
celery with the cream into a small sauce pan, and let it reduce 
down until the fat of the cream nearly separates; then add 
the tomato pulp, sage, and browned flour, bring to a boil, 
salt to taste, and pour it over the rice; mix well and let it 
cook twenty minutes, or until it will just pile nicely when 
dished up, and not run. Sprinkle with chopped parsley on 
top, or serve a sprig on the side of each order. 

Nut Cero Stew with Dumplings. 1 cups raw potato cubes, 
1 round tablespoon chopped onion or more, 2 cups cold water, 
1 teaspoons salt, f cup rich cream, i cup flour, 2 eggs, 
pound nut cero cut into large cubes. 

Put one-half cup of cream into a small sauce pan and bring 
to a boil, when it comes to a good boil add the flour all at 
once, and stir smooth; cover and let cook on the edge of the 
stove five minutes, then remove; when cool add the eggs 
one at a time, stir the batter until the egg disappears and 
the batter is smooth; add the remaining egg and work it like- 
wise into the batter; beat the batter well with the spoon 
that it may be perfectly smooth. Have the potato cut into 
one- half inch cubes, add the cold water, onion, and salt; and 






Legumes 47 

when the potato is nearly cooked through, drop in the batter 
by spoonfuls, scraping it off the spoon so it will drop in one 
piece into the boiling stew. Cover, and let cook about ten 
minutes. Have one tablespoon lightly browned flour and a 
bit of sage braided smooth in cold water, turn into stew, 
season with salt to taste. Celery salt may be added if desired; 
then add the nut cero which is cut in large cubes, and the 
remaining cream. Shake the sauce pan so as to mix well; 
let stand on the edge of the stove to draw for ten minutes; 
dish up on a platter, having a dumpling on top. Sprinkle 
over a little finely chopped parsley, and serve. 

New England Stew. 2 cups potato, 1 cup carrots, 1 cup 
turnips, 1 cup pearl onions, 2 teaspoons oil, salt to taste, 1 
tablespoon flour. 

Select if possible young and tender vegetables, peel them 
and cut them into quarters or eights according to their size, 
so each piece has about the same appearance and size. Put 
the carrot, turnip, and onion, on to cook in cold water and 
salt, add the oil and let cook until the vegetables are quite 
tender, then add the potato and cook until well done, braid 
the flour smooth in cold water, and stir into one side of the 
vegetables in such a way as not to break them up. Two 
cups cabbage may be cooked with the coarse vegetables, if 
desired. Dish up with chopped parsley on top. 

Protose and Rice Timbales. f cup cooked rice, cup rich 
milk, \ cup diced protose, 1 tablespoon grated onion, 1 egg, 
2 small stalks finely chopped celery, sage and salt to taste. 

Beat the egg slightly, add the milk, mix all the ingredients, 
and fill individual molds, set into baking pan containing a 
little water and bake in the oven until set, let it stand ten 
minutes then run the point of the knife around the edge, turn 
out on a platter, and pour a large spoonful of celery or tomato 
sauce over the top, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

Baked Macaroni with Olives. \ cup uncooked macaroni, J 
cup chopped ripe olives, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, 2 table- 
spoons tomato, 1 cup of the water in which the macaroni was 



48 Legumes 

cooked, 1 tablespoon vegetable oil, 2 tablespoons flour, salt 
and celery salt to taste. 

Break the macaroni into one-half inch lengths and drop 
into boiling salted water, cook until it is well done; put the 
oil in a small pan on the stove, and when hot add the flour 
and stir until well browned, then add the onion and chopped 
olives. Let them cook five minutes, then add one cup maca- 
roni water, and two tablespoons tomato; let it boil ten min- 
utes. Have the macaroni well drained, and while hot put it 
into the gravy, turn into a baking dish, grate a few fresh 
bread crumbs over the top, and with a spoon press them 
down onto the gravy so they become moistened through; 
bake until a nice brown. 

Macaroni Au Gratin. Break the macaroni into one inch 
lengths and drop into boiling salted water, and let cook until 
well done. Pour into a colander and let it drain well, after 
which put it into a granite baking pan and pour over enough 
cream sauce to barely cover it; mix it well and grate some 
fresh breadcrumbs on top to give it a good color. Sprinkle 
over a little thin cream, and with a large spoon press the 
crumbs down so they become softened by the liquid, and will 
brown without burning. Bake in a medium oven about thirty 
to forty minutes, or until a nice brown. 

Macaroni and Rice Croquettes. 1 cup cooked boiled rice, 
1J cups cooked macaroni, 1 tablespoons oil, 1 tablespoons 
flour, 1 round tablespoon onion, 1 egg, J cup potato water or 
milk, salt and celery salt to taste, and chopped parsley. 

Put the oil in a small saucepan on the fire, and when hot 
add the flour and onion, and stir for a few minutes, then 
add the hot liquid and stir into a paste, add the beaten egg and 
stir over the fire until it thickens, then set on table, salt to 
taste and a little celery salt, add the rice, macaroni, and 
chopped parsley, mix well; when cool form in the shape of a 
large cork, lay on board and flatten slightly with the blade 
of a knife, leaving it about three-fourths inch thick, brush 
over with a little cream, and bake in a hot oven. One fourth 



Legumes 49 

cup rich cream cooked down may be used instead of the oil, if 
desired. 

Baked Spaghetti. 1 cup spaghetti raw, J cup cream,* 2 eggs, 
salt. 

Break the spaghetti up into one inch lengths and drop into 
salted boiling water and cook well done, then pour into col- 
ander and let drain. Beat two eggs and add the cream 
and salt to taste. Pour over the spaghetti and mix well, put 
into a baking dish and grate a few fresh bread crumbs over 
the top, and press them down with a spoon so they get moist- 
ened, bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. 

Nut Roast. 2 cups zwieback crumbs, J cup nut butter, 1 
tablespoon grated onion, salt and sage to taste, cup hot 
water, 1J cups cold water. 

Dissolve the nut butter in the hot water, add the cold water, 
salt, sage, and onion, then the crumbs, mix well; oil a bread 
tin, fill about one-half full and press together, brush over with 
milk and bake thirty minutes or more. Let stand ten minutes 
before serving, then slice and serve with tomato sauce. 
When it is cold it may be sliced and reheated in the oven and 
makes a nice breakfast dish in this manner. 

Baked Dressing. 1 pint soaked stale bread, 2 tablespoons 
minced onion, 2 tablespoons minced celery, 2 tablespoons 
vegetable oil, 1 egg, teaspoon sage, and salt to taste. 

Soak the stale bread in cold water until soft through, pour 
into a colander and let drain; press lightly between the hands 
leaving it very soft. Put the onion, celery, and oil into a 
small sauce pan, set on the edge of the stove and let it sim- 
mer a few minutes, but do not let brown at all. Mix all the 
ingredients lightly, not breaking the bread up too fine, just 
enough to mix well. Put into an oiled baking pan and bake 
one-half hour or more. One-fourth cup of finely chopped wal- 
nuts will give the dressing a nice flavor and color, if desired. 
To dish up, lay the protose on a carving board, put a spoon- 
ful of dressing on the platter, lay a slice of protose on top, 



50 Gravies and Sauces 

and pour a spoonful of gravy over all. Serve with a sprig 
of parsley at one end. 

Steamed Rice. 1J cups cold water, \ cup rice, teaspoon 
salt. 

Wash the rice well and put it into the inner cup of a double 
boiler, add the salt and water and put on the stove, bringing 
to a boil; let it continue to boil slowly until the water is re- 
duced so the rice looks dry; then set it into the outer boiler 
and let steam forty minutes. If a double boiler is not at 
hand, let the rice cook down as above, and set on the back of 
the stove to dry out, having the sauce pan well covered. 

Browned Rice. \ cup of rice, 1J cups cold water, 1 teaspoon 
salt. 

Brown the rice in a small pan on the top of the stove or in 
a hot oven, stirring so it will not burn, until a golden brown; 
wash and drain it as dry as possible, put into the inner part 
of the double boiler, add the water and set on the stove, and 
let it boil until the rice appears dry and the liquid mostly 
evaporated; then set into the outer boiler to steam thirty 
minutes to one hour. 

Gravies and Sauces 

Brown Sauce No. 1. cup thick cream, 1 tablespoon 
onion, 4 tablespoons well browned flour, \\ cups potato water 
or bean broth, 2 tablespoons tomato, salt to taste. 

Cook the cream and onion in a sauce pan until the oil nearly 
separates from the cream, then add the browned flour, stir 
a few minutes, and add half of the liquid and beat smooth, 
add the remaining liquid and let it cook ten minutes, salt to 
taste, strain and serve. 

Brown Sauce No. 2. 1 tablespoon vegetable oil, 2J table- 
spoons flour, 2 tablespoons tomato, 1 round tablespoon onion 
chopped fine, 1 cup bean broth, cup hot water. 

Put the oil into a pan on the stove, when hot add the flour 
and keep stirring until quite brown. Then add the onion and 



Gravies and Sauces 51 

stir over the fire about five minutes, then add the hot water 
and stir smooth, add the bean broth and tomato, let it cook 
ten minutes, strain and serve. 

Olive Sauce. Add eight chopped ripe olives to the onion 
and make the same as brown sauce No. 2. 

Brazil Nut Sauce. 5 brazil nuts ground fine, 4 tablespoons 
flour, 1J cups potato water. 

Brown the flour in a pan on top of the stove, when it is of 
a light golden color add the nuts and stir through the flour 
for five minutes, add half of the liquid and stir smooth, add 
the balance of the water and let it cook fifteen minutes. 
Salt to taste, strain and serve. 

Cream Sauce. 1 cup milk, J cup cream, 3 tablespoons flour. 

Heat the milk and cream in double boiler to boiling point, 
braid the flour smooth in cold milk and stir into the hot milk. 
Let cook twenty minutes. Salt to taste. 

Celery Sauce, f cup celery, \ cup rich cream. | cup hot 
water, 2 tablespoons light browned flour, salt to taste. 

Wash crisp white celery with a brush to remove grits. 
Split once or twice lengthwise, then shred very fine, add the 
cream and let it cook down slowly until the oil nearly separ- 
ates from the cream, then add the boiling water and salt 
and let cook ten minutes. Braid the light brown flour smooth 
in cold water or milk, stir it into the celery and let simmer 
until quite thick. 

Nut Sauce. Dissolve one heaping tablespoon nut butter 
in a little hot water or milk, and add to the cream sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 1 cup tomato pulp, 2 teaspoons vegetable 
oil, one round teaspoon chopped onion, 1 tablespoons browned 
flour, salt and celery salt to taste. 

Put the oil in a small stewpan on the fire, when hot add 
the onion and stir a few minutes but do not brown, add the 
browned flour, stir smooth, then add the tomato, stir smooth 
and let boil up well, season with salt and celery salt, and 
strain through a fine strainer. 



52 Vegetables 

Vegetables 

Vegetables may be divided into two great classes: - 

1. The coarse or fibrous vegetables, comprising the roots, 
tubers, bulbs, stems, and leaves. 

2. The finer vegetables, as tomatoes, squash, corn, green 
peas, shelled beans, etc. 

Vegetables, like all starchy foods, should be put to cook in 
boiling water, the object being to soften the cellulose as well 
as to swell and burst the starch grains. While there is 
scarcely any other food more universally used by rich and 
poor alike in making up a part of their daily bill of fare, yet 
how often the vegetable is spoiled in cooking. Vegetables 
should always be cooked thoroughly done. Served in the half 
cooked condition so often met with, they are unpalatable 
and indigestible; while on the other hand coarse vegetables 
should be cooked in plenty of boiling water, and should be 
removed from the fire when done. Longer cooking makes 
them insipid in taste, and with too little water in cooking 
they turn a dark color. Salt should be added the last half 
hour of the cooking to give flavor. Green vegetables, as 
peas and string beans, when young and tender, should be 
cooked in just enough water to cook them well done and pre- 
serve their flavor. To retain the green color in the new 
vegetables, the cover must be left off while cooking and they 
should cook steadily after they are put on and not be allowed 
to stop cooking or simmering until they are done. Young 
tender vegetables, as lettuce, tomatoes, watercress, etc., 
served in the uncooked state, are valuable for the water 
and potash salts they contain, also for the stimulating effect 
they have on the appetite. 

New Peas. Shell the peas as soon after picking them as 
possible, drop into cold water, and skim off any dry leaves 
or imperfect ones that will come to the top; then dip them 
out of the water with the hands so as to leave any grit there 
may be in them on the bottom of the dish; drop them into 



Vegetables 53 

boiling water enough to cover them if tender, add salt and 
let them cook until well done and the liquid reduced to one- 
third its original quantity. If desired, they may be thickened 
slightly with flour braided smooth in cold water, and a little 
cream added just before serving. 

Baked Ear Corn. Select tender, well filled ears of corn, 
draw back the husks and remove the silk, wipe with a clean 
cloth; recover again with the husk and tie a string around 
the small end to keep the husks from opening and exposing 
the ear to too much heat. Lay in baking pan and bake in 
good oven from one-half to three-quarters of an hour. When 
done, remove the husks, lay on platter and serve immediately. 
A few of the inner husks may be left around each ear of 
corn and sent to the table. Corn cooked in this way is much 
sweeter and of a richer flavor than when boiled. When corn 
is boiled, it should be dropped into boiling water; then when 
it has come to a good boil, set it on edge of the stove to draw 
for fifteen to twenty minutes. Too much cooking hardens 
corn and makes it tough and unpalatable. 

String Beans should be picked while they are young and 
tender. Break them between the hands so as to remove any 
stringy fiber, also the ends. Put one teaspoon of vegetable 
oil into a sauce pan on the stove, and when quite hot add one 
pint of string beans which have previously been washed; 
stir over the fire for a minute, then add enough boiling water 
to cover them; add salt to season and let them boil quite 
rapidly until well done. If more water is added, it should be 
boiling hot. 

New Asparagus. Put them into a deep pan of water and 
wash well, that sand and grit may sink to the bottom; change 
the water and lift them out, tie them in bundles of about 

three portions each; lay on a board and trim off the root 
stems, leaving the stalks about four inches in length; drop 
them into boiling salted water and cook till they are tender, 
then set the sauce pan on the table until ready to serve; lift 
out and drain, lay on platter, cut and remove the strings, 
and send to the table. Serve with rich cream sauce. 



54 Vegetables 

Arparagus Tips and New Peas. Cut the tender part of 
cooked new asparagus into one inch lengths; cook the peas 
separately, and when done add enough rich cream to season 
them well; when it comes to a boil, thicken slightly with a 
little flour braided smooth in cold milk or water; add the 
asparagus tips and shake together to mix well and not break 
them up. 

Stewed Tomato. Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes 
and let remain about thirty seconds, then drain, remove the 
skin and the stem with the hard green part adhering to it, 
and cut into quarters. Put into a sauce pan with about one 
teaspoon vegetable oil to each cup of tomato, and salt to 
taste, bring to a good boil and serve. 

Scalloped Tomato. If the tomatoes are fresh, then prepare 
them as for stewed tomatoes, and when they come to a good 
boil, drain off most of the juice to be used for soups or gravies. 
Dust the bottom of an oiled baking pan quite thickly with 
cracker or zwieback crumbs, then a layer of tomatoes about 
one-half inch deep or more, then sprinkle over a little vege- 
table oil or rich cream which has been reduced down about 
half. Of the oil, if used, take one tablespoon to each two 
cups tomato. Sprinkle a little salt over it, then repeat, 
covering the tomatoes with a thin layer of crumbs, then a 
good layer of tomato, season the same as before, sprinkle a 
few crumbs on top and press them down with a spoon to 
moisten them, set in the oven and bake to a nice brown. 

Summer Squash. When young and tender, summer squash 
needs only to be washed and quartered. Steam until tender, 
press between two colanders, or in cheese cloth until quite 
dry. Mash and season with salt and cream. When the 
squash is older it must be peeled and have the seeds removed 
before cooking. 

Baked Squash. Steam the squash until about half done, 
lay the pieces out on a board so they can be sprinkled with 
salt to season. Dip them first in flour, then in rich cream, 
lay them close together in an oiled baking pan and pour 



Vegetables 55 

over them a little cream so they get well moistened, cover 
them by turning another pan over them and bake one-half 
hour, then remove the pan on top and bake to nice brown. 
They are very good when moistened with the liquor in which 
they have been boiled, using oil to season instead of cream. 

Breaded Egg Plant. Cut the egg plant into slices about 
three-fourths of an inch thick. Peel the slices and drop them 
into boiling salted water, and cook barely half done; it will 
take only a few minutes, then drain, and when cool dip each 
piece into cream, then into lightly colored zwieback crumbs. 
Lay the pieces close together in an oiled baking pan, and 
sprinkle enough cream over them to moisten the crumbs well. 
Bake in a medium oven until a nice brown and well done. It 
is better to cover them during the first twenty minutes of 
baking, then they will keep their moisture better. When 
cream is not obtainable, dip the vegetable in beaten egg 
diluted with a little milk or water, and oil the pieces over 
the top slightly. 

Stewed Salsify or Vegetable Oyster. Wash the salsify, 
then take them one at a time and scrape them, dropping them 
immediately into cold water to keep them from turning a 
dark color. When they are thus prepared, lay a few of them 
at a time on a board and slice with a f rench knife very thin. 
Drop them into boiling water enough to barely cover them. 
(The water should reduce down so there is just enough left 
to make the sauce for them). When done, thicken them 
slightly with a little flour braided smooth in cold water. Let 
them boil up, then add one-fourth cup rich cream to each 
pint of salsify. 

Cauliflower Au Gratin. Remove all the green leaves from 
the cauliflower and divide it into bouquets or pieces about 
the size of a large hen's egg. Wash well and drop into boil- 
ing salted water and cook until it is tender; care should be 
taken not to cook it too long, then it will break up. As soon 
as it is done, drain and lay the pieces in an oiled baking pan; 
pour over it enough cream sauce to barely cover it, then 



56 Vegetables 

grate a few fresh bread crumbs over the top and press them 
down with a spoon so they become moistened with the cream 
sauce; sprinkle a little milk or cream over the top and bake 
until a light brown. 

Baked Cream Corn. 1 cup corn pulp, cup rich milk, 1 
e gg & CU P 1'ght colored zwieback crumbs, teaspoon salt, a 
little celery salt. 

Warm the milk to about 120 F., pour it over the crumbs 
and let them soak. Have the corn ground through a fine 
mill. Mix all the ingredients, put into an oiled baking pan, 
put a teaspoon of milk or cream over the top to give it a 
nice color. Bake until set and a nice brown. 

Roasted Potatoes. Choose medium sized potatoes; peel 
them and lay them in a baking pan, sprinkle with a little salt 
and dredge with flour; brush them over the top with an oiled 
brush, and pour on water so the potatoes are nearly covered; 
set in the oven and bake about one hour and a quarter or 
more; the liquid should cook down just enough to leave a thin 
gravy to pour over the potato on dishing it up. 

Scalloped Potato. Slice some peeled raw potatoes into thin 
slices, put into an oiled granite baking pan about one inch 
deep of sliced potatoes, sprinkle with salt, then with lightly 
browned flour, repeat the process again, then pour on enough 
water to cover the potatoes; the pan should not be quite full, 
or it will boil over in the oven; set the pan into the oven, and 
bake about one hour and a half. Milk may be used in place 
of water, if desired. 

Potatoes Dauphine. 2 cups mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons 
thick cream, yolk 1 egg, teaspoon salt. 

Boil the potatoes, drain well, and mash them through a 
colander. Return them to the sauce pan and set on the edge 
of the stove. Add the cream to the yolk, beat slightly, and 
pour into the potato; beat well with a wooden spoon; the 
potato should be hot so it will dry out and not be too soft. 
When partly cool turn out on a board slightly floured, and 



Salads and Dressings 57 

divide into pieces about the size of an egg; mold into leaf 
shape, diamond shape, squares or patties. Mark on the top 
with the edge of a knife, lay in an oiled baking pan, leaving 
a little space between them. Brush them over the top with 
a little milk or cream, and bake on the top grate of a hot 
oven until a light brown in color. 

Salads and Dressings 

Salads, composed chiefly of green tender vegetables or 
fruits and nuts, and served with a dressing, are valuable as 
a means of supplying fat; they are also valuable for their 
acids and mineral salts, and being made into a variety of 
dishes that are palatable and attractive looking, serve as an 
appetizer or relish. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. Yolk of 2 eggs, 1 cup olive oil, 1 
tablespoons or more lemon juice, J teaspoon salt. 

Beat the yolks and salt, add a half teaspoon of lemon juice; 
beat well and add the oil drop by drop to begin with, then 
increase as it gets started, adding now and then a little lemon 
juice to thin the dressing to the proper consistency. Ingre- 
dients should all be cold. 

Boiled Dressing. cup cream, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon corn 
starch, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, salt to taste. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler, braid the starch smooth 
in a little cold milk and stir it into the boiling cream, cover 
and let it cook ten minutes or more. Beat the egg quite 
well and add the lemon juice, then pour the hot cream slowly 
into the beaten egg, stirring meanwhile so as not to curdle 
the egg, return the mixture to the double boiler and let cook 
a few minutes, stirring meanwhile, but do not boil, salt to 
taste and let cool. 

Cream Dressing. 1 cup rich cream, cup lemon juice, 2 
tablespoons sugar. 

Mix the sugar and lemon first. Have the cream beaten 
until it begins to thicken a little, then mix with the lemon 
and sugar and use immediately. 






58 Salads and Dressings 

Lettuce and Tomato. Arrange the lettuce leaves on a plate; 
have a ripe tomato peeled and cooled, lay on the lettuce, run 
a sharp knife across the middle of the tomato, cutting it 
nearly in two, then crosswise, so the four quarters will fall 
back and yet hold together underneath. Drop a spoonful of 
mayonnaise dressing in the center of the tomato and serve. 

Jellied Tomato. 1 cup tomato pulp, cup lemon juice, 
1 tablespoon sugar, J teaspoon celery salt, 2 teaspoons grated 
onion, salt to taste, | cup vegetable jelly. 

Mix all the ingredients, and after pouring a small quantity 
of the liquid into an individual mold, press a thin slice of ripe 
tomato to the bottom of the mold, then pour on the liquid, 
filling the mold about three-fourths full; let set, and when 
cool turn out on lettuce leaf, serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Celery and Nuttolene Salad. cup diced celery, cup 
diced nuttolene, 1 teaspoon grated onion, 1 hard boiled egg 
chopped fine, and chopped parsley to taste. 

Dilute with boiled cream dressing or mayonnaise, dish up 
by filling a wetted mold to shape it, and turn out on a lettuce 
leaf, serve with a teaspoon of dressing on top. 

Stuffed Beet Salad. Select small red beets of uniform size, 
boil in salted water until tender, rub off the dry skin and 
scrape out the center, being careful not to break the shell; 
cut the centers into small cubes, to which add an equal 
quantity of finely diced celery and chopped hard boiled egg. 
Season with dressing and refill the shell, serve on a bed of 
crisp lettuce with a teaspoon of dressing on top. 

Salad Rus.se. cup diced celery, 1 cup cooked green lima 
beans, 1 cup diced lettuce, 1 hard boiled egg diced, grated 
onion and salt to taste. 

Cut the cooked beans into small dice, mix all the ingredients; 
season with boiled dressing or mayonnaise; serve on lettuce 
leaf. 

Potato Salad. Boil potatoes with skins on in salted water, 
or better, bake them if convenient, when cold peel the pota- 



Fruit Salad 59 

toes and run a knife through them lengthwise to split in two, 
then crosswise dividing them into quarters, then slice them 
very thin, and season as follows: 

1 cups sliced potato, 1 sliced green onion or more, 1 hard 
boiled egg, chopped parsley, salt and celery salt to taste. 

Chop the egg quite fine, mix all ingredients and dilute with 
boiled cream dressing; dish up on lettuce leaf and sprinkle a 
little fresh parsley on top of each order. 

Celery Salad. Choose crisp white stalks of celery. Shred 
them very fine with a french knife, add a little grated onion, 
salt to taste, dilute with boiled dressing or cream dressing, 
and sprinkle chopped parsley on top when dished up. 

Cole Slaw. Choose cabbage that is fresh and crisp, remove 
outside leaves, cut in two lengthwise through the stem, 
remove the stem and shred very fine, let stand in ice water 
for half an hour, drain well and season with the following 
dressing: 

Two tablespoons olive oil, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 
teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons grated onion, salt to taste. 
Pour over cabbage and mix well; sprinkle chopped parsley 
over when dished up. Boiled or cream dressing may be used 
in place of the one given, if desired. 

Fruit Salad 

Lemon Sauce. | cup lemon juice, & cup pineapple juice, 2 
teaspoons corn starch, J cup sugar. 

Braid the corn starch smooth in cold water, and when the 
juice and sugar comes to a boil, stir in the starch; let cook 
in a double boiler a few minutes, then let cool. 

Fleurette Sauce. cup orange juice, 2 tablespoons lemon 
juice, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoons corn starch, 1 egg. 

Heat the orange juice, lemon juice, and sugar to boiling 
point. Thicken it with the starch which has been diluted 
with cold water; let it cook in a double boiler for ten minutes, 
have the egg beaten quite well and pour the hot mixture 



60 Fruit Salad 

slowly onto it, stirring briskly to prevent cooking the egg, 
return to the fire for a few minutes, stirring the meanwhile, 
but do not let boil; let cool. 

Stuffed Date Salad. Remove pits from well washed dates, 
and refill each with a half walnut meat, press together, put 
into a salad bowl and dilute with lemon juice. Serve on let- 
tuce leaf with a tablespoon of lemon sauce poured over. 

Fruit Basket. Select medium sized well colored oranges, 
hold the oranges between the thumb and first finger, let the 
side of the orange rest on the table, while with a small pointed 
knife start in the center of the orange and run the blade 
point first about two inches into the center of the orange, 
then again in such a manner that when followed all the way 
round the orange will part in two halves, leaving the edge 
ruffled with small points of peel like the teeth of a coarse 
saw. Run the point of a knife around each half near the 
peel, then with a teaspoon dip out the fruit in one piece. 
Cut the orange center into small cubes, to which add equal 
quantities of diced bananas and pineapple and a few straw- 
berries. Dilute with fleurette sauce; fill the orange shells, 
having them well rounded with the fruit, serve on a white 
plate with two or three small orange leaves for garniture, 
and a teaspoon of sauce on top. 

Fruit and Nuts. cup diced oranges, cup diced bananas, 
\ cup diced apples, \ cup finely chopped walnuts. 

Mix the fruits and season with fleurette sauce, dish up on 
a lettuce leaf with a liberal quantity of chopped nuts sprinkled 
on the top. 

Fruit Mold. Cook apples or pears with a few thin slices 
of lemon to flavor and sweeten to taste, when cold drain off 
the liquor, and to each cup of juice add three tablespoons of 
lemon juice and one cup of vegetable jelly. Pour into the 
bottom of a large salad bowl a small quantity of the liquid; 
then quickly line the bottom and sides with dates cut into 
strips, the cooked fruit, and with bananas or pineapple, or 
both. Have the bananas cut into strips and set upright 



Desserts 61 

along the sides. Berries may be used for garnish, if at hand. 
Fill in the center with fruit, then pour over the liquid to 
cover, and when set it may be turned out on a plate or plat- 
ter and dished up at the table. A little red fruit juice may 
be poured around for a border, or jellied raspberry juice may 
be minced fine and piled around. 

Date and Apple Salad. Select small well colored sweet 
apples, core them and cut a slice off one end, then hollow out 
the center by using the apple corer or a teaspoon, being care- 
ful not to break the shell. Cut the apple thus removed into 
small cubes, and to each cup of diced apple add one-third cup 
diced dates, season with lemon sauce, refill the apple with 
the mixture. Make a funnel out of small lettuce leaf and 
press it down in the top of the apple, fill it with a spoonful 
of lemon sauce, set the apple on a lettuce leaf and serve. 

Desserts 

The most wholesome desserts are those furnished us by 
nature which require no preparation, as fruits, either fresh 
dried or cooked, and nuts. Fruits and grains combined make 
nice desserts, and may be prepared in a variety of ways. 
By the use of vegetable gelatin (agaragar), fruit and fruit 
juices may be molded into attractive looking desserts that 
are toothsome and inviting. Vegetable gelatin goes much 
further than animal gelatin, and its vegetable origin guar- 
antees absolute freedom from unwholesome and diseased pro- 
ducts. Being free from any flavor of its own, it requires 
much less flavoring material, leaving the natural fruit flavors 
unimpaired, and "there is nothing about it to suggest hoofs 
and horns." 

The body requires a certain amount of sugar to keep it in 
working condition. To meet this demand nature has made 
provision in the fruits or fruit sugars, honey, etc. There are 
some people, however, who can not eat fruit; for such it may 
be well to take sugar in some form. But, as a rule, far too 



62 Desserts 

much sugar is ordinarily used in food. "Sweet breads, sweet 
cakes . . . perpetuate indigestion and make dyspeptics. " 
However, when people have been accustomed to use these 
freely, sound judgment should be exercised. 

The free use of milk and sugar taken together is especially 
harmful, and should be avoided. Their place should be sup- 
plied by a variety of fruits and nuts, with preparations of 
fruits and grains served in an appetizing manner. For those 
who like a simple cake now and then, the following recipes 
have been prepared. These cakes, being free from any 
chemical, should be baked a little more slowly than those in 
which baking powder is used. Just a moderate steady oven 
will bring these cakes out light and porous. 

Sago Fruit Mold, f cup blackberry juice, cup water, 
cup sago, cup sugar. 

Wash the sago and have it well drained, bring the liquid 
and sugar to the boiling point in a double boiler. Wash the 
sago and drain, add to the hot liquid and stir well; cover and 
let steam until the sago is transparent, then turn into wetted 
molds and let cool; when cold and set, turn out on sauce dish 
and serve with cream or crushed fruit sauce. 

Prune Pudding. Soak dried prunes over night. Cook them 
for two or three hours with a few slices of lemon added to 
give them flavor. Drain and save the juice separately; put 
the prunes through a colander to remove the pits, sweeten 
with honey or sugar, if needed, and flavor with vanilla. Trim 
the crust off thinly from a loaf of fruit bread, and cut into 
slices about one-half incti thick. Line a granite baking pan 
with the bread, pour over enough juice to soak up the bread, 
cover with the prune pulp about one-half inch deep, repeat 
the process leaving the prune pulp for the top; set into oven 
until it gets just barely hot through, so it will set; cool and 
cut into squares and serve with a teaspoon of whipped cream 
on top. 

Strawberry Whip. 1 cup strawberries, white of 1 egg, \ 
cup sugar, 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



Desserts 63 

Choose well ripened strawberries, wash them and remove 
the stems, put all the ingredients into a bowl, then beat with 
a wire egg whip until light and fluffy, which will take twenty 
minutes or more. 

Pile lightly on a dish, and pour a border of crushed fruit 
or red fruit juice unsweetened around the whip on each dish. 

Strawberry Dessert. Take a toasted rice biscuit and lay it 
on a sauce dish, pour a large tablespoon or more of cream 
over it to soften it slightly, then drop a large spoonful of 
strawberry whip on top, in such a manner as to have the 
dessert piled high and narrow on the dish. Garnish on top 
with a large ripe berry or a spoonful of crushed berries and 
serve. 

Ra pberries or blackberries may be used instead of straw- 
berries. 

Banana Loaf. Take two large ripe bananas and press them 
through a fine colander, add one tablespoon of pineapple 
juice, mix well. Lay a toasted granose biscuit on a sauce 
dish and pour over it enough pineapple juice to moisten it, 
then cover with a thick layer of the banana pulp. Lay 
another biscuit on top, and moisten as before with pineapple 
juice, spread on lightly the banana mixture and place a 
tablespoon of whipped cream on top and serve. 

The pineapple juice will keep the banana from turning a 
dark color. 

Fruit Pyramid. J cup berry juice (strawberry preferred), 
cup water, 2 tablespoons germea, sweeten to taste. 

Heat the liquid in a double boiler to boiling point, stir in 
the germea, and let steam for one-half hour, pour into wetted 
molds. (It is best to make this dessert in the morning if it is 
to be eaten at dinner, for it takes a long time for it to jelly.) 
Turn on a dish and serve with cream or a fruit sauce. 

Banana Snow. | cup banana pulp, 3 tablespoons sugar, 
2 teaspoons lemon juice, a few drops vanilla, white of 1 egg. 

Mix all the ingredients and beat with a wire egg whip 
until very light, about twenty minutes to one-half hour; pile 



64 Desserts 

on a sauce dish. It may be garnished with a red strawberry 
cut in quarters and placed on top, or with a little jelly. 

Flaked Rice and Fruit Mold. Take strawberries or black- 
berries, and if they are the fresh berries crush a few with 
enough sugar to sweeten all, and mix them with the berries 
to be used. Lay in a pan toasted rice flakes about one-third 
of an inch deep; cover with the berries about the same thick- 
ness, then again with flakes, and finish with berries on top; 
sprinkle over it a few flakes and set a pan of equal size on 
top and press gently for one hour. There should be just 
enough juice to soak up the flakes well, the pan should be 
set inside a larger one, so that if the juice runs over it does 
not run on the table or floor, when set, cut into squares and 
serve with whipped cream or crushed fruit sauce. Canned 
berries may be used if fresh ones can not be obtained'. 

Vegetable Gelatin (Agaragar). Put one ounce of agaragar 
to soak in warm water for one hour. Drain well and put into 
a kettle, to which add one quart of boiling water. Let it 
boil about ten minutes after boiling begins or until clear. 
Strain through cheese cloth and it is ready for use. One 
ounce will solidify three quarts of liquid, inclusive of the 
water in which the gelatin is cooked. 

Orange Jelly. 1 cups orange juice, cup water, f cup 
sugar, | cup lemon juice, 1 cup vegetable jelly. 

Mix all the cold ingredients, add the vegetable jelly, mix 
well, pour into molds immediately, add a few thin slices of 
orange and let set. When cold turn out and serve with a 
little red fruit juice around each mold. 

Berry Mold. 1 cups of strawberry or blackberry juice, 
| cup lemon juice, J cup sugar, 1 cup vegetable jelly. 
Mix all the ingredients and mold immediately. 

Jellied Apple. Core and peel medium sized sweet apples, 
sprinkle a little sugar over them, add enough water to keep 
them from burning, cover and bake until thoroughly done, 
and let cool. Take one cup of apple or pear juice sweetened 



Desserts 65 

to taste, add one and one-half tablespoons lemon juice and 
one-half cup vegetable jelly; put a little red jelly or cherry 
in the cavity of the apple, press to the bottom of the indi- 
vidual mold, pour over it just enough liquid to cover, and let 
set; turn out on a dish and serve with red fruit sauce or 
crushed fruit around. The apples may be left in the pan in 
which they were baked and the liquid poured over them all. 
When cool cut into squares and serve. 

Pie Crust. 1 quart pastry flour, f cup vegetable oil, f cup 
cold water, | teaspoon salt. 

Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl, add half of the 
water to the oil and beat until it thickens, making a present 
emulsion, add the remaining water and when mixed well pour 
all at once on the flour; draw in the flour from the sides of 
the bowl with a large spoon, mix well, turn out on a floured 
board and work together, handling as little as possible. 

Apple Pie No. I. Roll out and line a pie plate with crust, 
have apples peeled and thinly sliced, fill the plate with the 
sliced tart apples rounding it up well, dust with flour, and if 
the apples are not tart a little water may be added, sprinkle 
over one-third to one-half cup of sugar, according tq the tart- 
ness of the apple. Wet the edges of the crust, roll out a top 
crust, cover and press the edges well together, mark by 
pressing the teeth of a table fork gently against the edge 
all the way around; puncture the top crust in several places 
to let out the steam to keep them from boiling over in the 
oven. 

Apple Pie No. 2. Roll out pie crust and fit it into the bot- 
tom of the tins, trim the edges, prick the bottom and sides 
through with a fork and bake until crisp and light brown. 
To two and one-fourth cups apple pulp, add three tablespoons 
of lemon juice and one of vegetable jelly, sweeten to taste, 
fill the crust shells and let set. 

Prune Pie No. 1. Soak dried prunes over night, put on in 
cold water with a few slices of lemon, and cook for about 
three hours, when cool rub through a colander to remove the 



66 Desserts 

pits. Stir it with an egg whip to mix it evenly with the 
liquid in which it was cooked; and to two and one-half cups 
of prune pulp thus made add four tablespoons lemon juice, 
one-third cup of honey or sugar, and one cup vegetable jelly; 
flavor with vanilla, mix well and fill the pie crust shells and 
let set. 

Prune Pie No. 2. Drain the cooked prunes well, rub them 
through a colander to remove the pits, leaving them as dry 
as possible, put into a granite pan and set in the oven to dry 
out partly, when the moisture is quite well evaporated, remove 
from the oven and add just a little lemon juice and vanilla to 
flavor; fill the previously baked shells with the prune pulp. 
Beat the white of an egg stiff, flavor with a few drops of 
lemon juice, spread over the prune and brown slightly in a 
quick oven. 

Banana Tapioca Pudding. cup tapioca, 1 cup boiling 
water, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 thin slices lemon, vanilla flavor, 
3 well ripened bananas. 

Soak the tapioca for one hour or more, drain off the water, 
if any, put into a double boiler, pour over it one cup of boil- 
ing water, and let it steam until transparent. Have the 
bananas sliced quite thin, add the sugar and vanilla and let 
stand one-half hour; when the tapioca is cold add the bananas, 
mix well but avoid breaking them up too much; serve with 
cream. 

Cream Tapioca. 2 cups milk, J cup tapioca, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 egg, vanilla flavor. 

Wash the tapioca, drain and let stand a half hour. Heat 
the milk in the double boiler, and when hot stir in the tapioca; 

let steam until clear, stirring it now and then, as it takes a 
considerable time. When the tapioca is done, pour it slowly 
into the beaten egg, then return the mixture to the double 
boiler and cook until the egg begins to thicken, stirring con- 
stantly. Pour into a dish and let cool. 

Cream Rice Pudding. 1 pint of rich milk, J cup uncooked 
rice, J cup seeded raisins, a sprinkling of grated lemon rind, 
vanilla flavor, 1 tablespoon sugar. 



Desserts 67 

Wash the rice and put it into a granite baking pan; add 
the milk, lemon rind, and a pinch of salt, set on the top of 
the stove to cook; when the rice is about half done add the 
raisins and sugar, and set in a medium oven, cover and bake 
until it begins to thicken slightly, remove from the oven and 
let cool. This pudding should be soft and creamy and will 
dish up nicely if brought out of the oven at just the right 
time. 

Cirape Blanc Mange. 1 cup grape juice, 1| cups water, J 
cup sugar, 5 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Put the water, grape juice, and sugar into the inner part 
of a double boiler and set on the stove. When it comes to a 
good boil stir in the cornstarch, the latter having been dis- 
solved in a little cold water. When it boils up, set into the 
outer part of boiler and let steam ten minutes, then pour 
into wetted .molds. When cool turn out on a dish and serve 

with cream. . 

*j. 

Layer Cake No. 1. 4 eggs, jjf cup sugar, 1& cups flour, 2 
tablespoons water, 1 tablespoon oil, vanilla flavoring. 

Put the eggs, water and sugar into a round-bottom bowl, 
set on the edge of the stove where it is not too hot, and beat 
continuously with a wire batter whip until the mixture will 
pile nicely in the bowl when it runs from the whip. Then 
set it on the table, add the oil and flavoring, then half of the 
flour. Fold it in with a large spoon, then add the remaining 
flour and fold in lightly yet thoroughly. Pour into two oiled 
cake-tins and bake in medium oven about twelve to fifteen 
minutes. 

Layer Cake No. 2. 1J cups pastry flour, 4 tablespoons corn 
starch, 1 scant cup sugar, 3 tablespoons water, 1 tablespoon 
vegetable oil, teaspoon lemon, 4 eggs separately, vanilla 
flavor. 

Measure the flour and starch and sift them together through 
a flour sifter to mix them thoroughly. Add the water and 
oil to the sugar, mix well with a spoon so the sugar becomes 
well dissolved, and set.it on the stove to heat while the eggs 



68 Desserts 

are being beaten. The sugar, water, and oil should be allowed 
to boil up well, so that the oil will be completely emulsified 
and does no longer float on the top; it should not be allowed 
to stand and boil too long, for then it will cook down to a 
thick syrup. As soon as the oil is emulsified set it to one 
side to keep hot till the eggs are ready. Beat the yolks with 
a Dover beater till light and lemon colored, add the lemon 
juice and vanilla flavor, and set aside. Beat the whites stiff 
and dry, then fold the yolks into the whites; when well blended 
pour slowly the hot syrup into the eggs, folding it in with a 
wire batter whip or a large spoon, which causes the eggs to 
rise and get light. Care should be taken not to pour in the 
hot liquid so fast as to cook the eggs. Lastly, sprinkle over 
about half the flour, and fold it in with a large spoon, then 
add the remaining flour and fold it in likewise until all is well 
blended, but avoid stirring it, for that would break down the 
lightness of the batter; pour it into two oiled cafce tins, and 
bake in a medium slow oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Walnut Loaf Cake. 2 eggs, cup pastry flour, \ teaspoon 
lemon juice, 1 tablespoons water, J cup chopped walnut 
meats, J scant cup sugar, vanilla flavor. 

Have the flour measured and sifted, separate the eggs, 
beat the yolks with Dover egg-beater until light and lemon 
colored; add the water, lemon, vanilla, and sugar, and stir 
only enough to mix well, add about one-fourth of the flour 
and mix evenly, not stirring very much, only enough to make 
a smooth batter. Add a dash of salt to the whites and beat 
them stiff and dry. Pour the batter slowly into the whites, 
folding it in by running a batter whip or large spoon down 
the side of the bowl through the center and lifting it straight 
up and allowing the mixture to drop back into the bowl; 
repeat until all is well blended, but do not stir. Add the 
remaining flour and the chopped walnut meats and fold it in 
evenly with a spoon, turn out into an oiled bread tin and bake 
in a medium slow oven about twenty-five to thirty-five min- 
utes. The damper of the stove should be closed up to keep 



Desserts 69 

a slow steady heat for any loaf cake which requires such a 
long time to bake. This may be frosted over with a white 
frosting and sprinkled with chopped nuts, if desired. 

White Icing No. 1. 1 cup sugar, cup water, 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice, white of 1 egg. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water and let it boil until it 
threads, have the white of the egg beaten quite stiff, add 
the lemon juice, and pour in gradually the hot syrup, stirring 
the meanwhile; add the vanilla, a few drops, and continue 
beating until the mixture is light and creamy, then it is ready 
to use. 

It would be well for the inexperienced in boiling this syrup 
to take a bowl of cold water, and while the sugar is boiling 
drop a teaspoon into cold water, and when it stays together 
and can be handled, then test the syrup by lifting the spoon 
from it and let the syrup run off until it threads. It should 
never be allowed to cook so long that it will harden when 
put into cold water. 

White Icing No. 2. 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice, white 1 egg, a few drops vanilla flavor. 

Beat the white of the egg, add the sugar, lemon juice, and 
flavor, and beat until creamy. 

Icing No. 3. A simple icing can be made by adding 
powdered sugar to orange juice to the consistency to spread 
on cake, cover the same as when using boiled icing. Many 
prefer this icing to that made with white of egg, as it will 
not dry out nearly so quick as the boiled icing. 

Orange Filling. J cup boiling water, juice of four oranges, 
grated rind of 1 orange, J cup sugar, cup flour. 

Bring liquids and rind to the boiling point, braid the flour 
smooth with cold water and stir into the liquid; let it cook a 
few minutes and let cool. 

If desired, the yolk of one egg may be added and stirred 
over the fire until it thickens, then set immediately off the 
fire to cool. 



70 Toasts and Breakfast Dishes 

Toasts and Breakfast Dishes 

Toasts are especially nice for breakfast. They are a light 
food, yet appetizing and nourishing. 

Strawberry Toast. Bring fresh strawberries to boiling point 
with enough sugar to sweeten, using very little water. When 
done dip a piece of zwieback into juice to soften a little, lay 
the toast on a platter and cover well with strawberries, pour 
a spoonful of juice over all and serve. The juice may be 
thickened a little with cornstarch, if desired, before dishing 
up. 

Blackberry Toast. Cook the berries until just done, add a 
little sugar, mash them through a fine strainer to remove the 
seeds. Dip a piece of zwieback into the liquid to soften, 
then thicken the berry pulp with a little cornstarch braided 
smooth in cold water. Let it cook slowly for a few minutes, 
and dish up as for strawberry toast. 

Prune Toast Rub well cooked prunes through fine colander, 
add enough of the prune juice to make it of the consistency 
to spread on toast and not run off; reheat and dip a slice of 
zwieback in hot milk or prune juice to soften, lay on a platter 
and cover with the prune pulp. 

Cream of Peas on Toast, f cup green pea pulp, \ cup thin 
cream, salt to taste. 

Bring peas to boil, drain off liquor; mash the peas through 
colander, having them separate from the liquid in which they 
were heated, add the hot cream and salt to taste. Reheat; 
dip a piece of zwieback in milk to soften, lay on a platter and 
cover with cream peas which should be thick enough not to 
run off. 

Walnut Lentils on Toast, f cup lentil puree, \ cup or more 
thin cream, cup finely chopped walnuts, salt to taste. 

Cook lentils well done, drain and mash them through col- 
ander, moisten with the hot cream, salt to tase, add wal- 
nuts; reheat and dish up as cream peas on toast. 



Invalid Dietary 71 

Tomato Toast. Dip a slice of zwieback into hot milk or 
tomato juice, lay on a platter and cover with a spoonful of 
tomato sauce. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato. Scald and peel two medium 
sized ripe tomatoes, cut them into quarters, put them in a 
small covered sauce pan, add a Itttle salt and boil a few 
minutes, turn them into a colander and drain off the juice. 
Put a tablespoon of cream into a small pan, or have the 
pan oiled; when hot, break in two eggs, stir them quickly so 
they may cook evenly; when they are soft cooked add the 
tomatoes, mix lightly and serve immediately. 

Invalid Dietary 

While the greater part of this work has been devoted to 
the contriving of meals usual in the average household and 
under ordinary circumstances, yet we must know how to 
supply the needs of the weak or suffering. A few recipes 
will be given under this head, for a few liquid foods may 
often be used where the more solid foods can not be retained 
or assimilated. 

Food for the sick should be such as will furnish the most 
nourishment with the least tax upon the digestive organs. 
While it should generally be of a simple nature, it should be 
cooked with the greatest care, and served in the most invit- 
ing manner. 

The temperature of the food will also have a marked influ- 
ence on digestion, therefore it should be a rule to have hot 
foods served hot, and cold foods served cold. 

The tray should be covered with spotless linen, should be 
carefully laid, and should not have the appearance of being 
overcrowded. 

The breakfast tray especially should be made as attractive 
as possible. A few bright flowers will make it look cheery 
and inviting. While many of the foregoing recipes may be 
used for the sick, as toasts, fruits, breads, soups, etc., the 
following will come under a special head, as liquid foods. 



72 Invalid Dietary 

Barley Water. 2 tablespoons barley, 1 quart cold water. 

Wash the barley and let it soak for an hour in a quart of 
cold water. Set on the stove and let boil until it is reduced 
to one cup of liquid; serve plain or season with a little cream, 
if desired. 

Rice Water. 2 tablespoons rice, 2 cups cold water, a few 
grains salt, cream or milk, if desired. 

Wash the rice and put into the cold water, heat gradually 
to the boiling point, and let it continue to cook until the rice 
is soft. Strain, reheat the rice water, add a little milk or 
cream, if desired. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 3 tablespoons oatmeal, 2 cups boiling 
water, a few grains of salt. 

Stir the oatmeal into the boiling water, and let it boil until 
it begins to thicken slightly, then set into a double boiler 
and let it cook two hours or more. Strain through a fine 
strainer and dilute it with a little hot water if it is too thick. 
Reheat and season with cream, if desirable. A gruel should 
be so thin that it will pour easily from a spoon. 

Cornmeal Gruel. 3 tablespoons cornmeal, 2 cups water, a 
few grains of salt. 
Prepare the same as oatmeal gruel. 

Gluten Gruel. 4 tablespoons gluten meal, 1 cup of boiling 
water, a few grains of salt. 

Sift the gluten slowly into the boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly to avoid having it form into lumps. Let it boil until 
the desired thickness is obtained. A little cream may be 
added before serving, if practicable. 

Flax Seed Tea. 2 tablespoons flax seed, 2 cups boiling 
water, 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Wash the flax seed in cold water, drain well, add the boil- 
ing water and let boil slowly for one hour. Strain, add the 
lemon and a very little sugar, if desired, and serve. 

Fruit Egg Nogg. One egg separately, one-third cup fruit 
juice. The amount of sugar needed will vary according to 



Invalid Dietary 78 

the acidity of the fruit. Orange egg nogg will require about 
one tablespoon sugar. Other juices, as grape, berry, or 
prune will require very little sugar, if any. A teaspoon of 
lemon juice should be added to the latter juices. Beat the 
whites stiff with a Dover egg beater, and take out one table- 
spoon of the whites to be kept for a garniture for. the top of 
the glass. Beat the yolks and stir in the fruit juice and 
sugar. Mix well, then stir all into the beaten whites, and 
pour into a glass and serve with the tablespoon of beaten 
white on top. 

Cream Egg Nogg. cup thin cream, 1 egg, 4 or 5 drops of 

vanilla. 

Beat the egg separately, add the cream and vanilla to the 
yolks, then pour the mixture into the beaten whites, mix 
well and serve in glass with a spoonful of beaten white on 
top. 

Lemonade. 1 lemon, 2 tablespoons sugar, f cup water. 

Cut the lemon into halves, cut off a thin slice to be served 
in the glass, press out the juice, add sugar and water, mix 
well, serve in glass with half slice of lemon floating on top. 

Orangeade. 1 orange, 2 tablespoons sugar, cup water. 
Make same as for lemonade, except omit the garniture of 
the sliced orange in the glass. 



It is a very common error to serve the sick with fresh made 
toast of bread which has been quickly browned on both sides 
and served hot. This makes the bread practically as indigest- 
ible as fresh baked bread. Zwieback may be heated, served 
dry or moistened with hot milk or water, and being thoroughly 
dextrinized, it is very easily digested and assimilated. 

Eggs, when cooked and served to the sick, should as a rule 
always be soft cooked, poached, or soft boiled, curdled or 
scrambled with a little milk. 

While it does not prove to be the best policy to prescribe 
the exact amount of calories of the different elements of 



74 Fruit Ices and Creams 

nutrition for individuals, yet one should have a practical 
knowledge of the requirements of the human body, and 
should supply food that is relishable and strengthening. By 
lowering the vitality, whether through one extreme or the 
other, the way is open for disease to enter the body. We 
should therefore aim to supply good, simple, wholesome, 
nourishing food, that will fortify the body against the attacks 
of disease. 

Fruit Ices and Creams 

Fruit ices when eaten at proper times may be used by 
most people, and in hot weather they are cooling and refresh- 
ing. The mixture of large quantities of milk and sugar, 
used in the manufacture of ice creams, makes a bad combi- 
nation. Large quantities of milk and sugar taken together 
create poisons in the system. Fruit ices and ice cream are 
often recommended by physicians for particular cases. The 
following suggestions on the use of ices and ice creams by a 
physician of long practical experience will be a help to the 
nurse or mother. 

"Fruit Ice is a very useful article of food for those who are 
suffering with a gastritis where there is an absence of hydro- 
chloric acid. It has the effect of reducing the inflammatory 
condition and at the same time supplies the patient with nu- 
trition. It is not a good plan to take fruit ice in connection 
with a large meal, as it lowers the temperature of the stom- 
ach, and the latter can not perform its functions until it has 
reached its normal temperature again. 

"Ice Cream is a useful article of food for a person who is 
suffering with gastric ulcer and inflammation of the stomach, 
due to excess of hydrochloric acid, as it is both nutritious 
and cooling to the stomach. 

"The combination of sugar and milk does not seem to do any 
particular damage under these conditions, for the large amount 
of hydrochloric acid seems to neutralize any evil effects. It 



Fruit Ices and Creams 75 

is not a useful article of food for an individual with a normal 
stomach. The materials used should be of the best quality, 
for frequently we have severe ptomain poisoning from eat- 
ing an inferior quality of ice cream." 

Strawberry Ice. 2 cups strawberries, cup sugar or more, 
\ cup water, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Wash and remove the stems from well colored ripe berries. 
Put them into a bowl, sprinkle over the sugar, cover and let 
stand one hour, then mash them well, add the water and 
press through a fine strainer or cheese cloth to express as 
much juice as possible, add the lemon juice and freeze, using 
about one part salt to three or four parts ice. Too much 
salt will make a coarse grained ice. The beaten white of an 
egg may be added, if desired. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Ice is made the same as straw- 
berry ice, using blackberries and raspberries instead of 
strawberries. 

Apricot Ice. 1 cup stewed apricot pulp, 2 tablespoons 
lemon juice, J cup water, sweeten to taste. 

Stew the apricots with enough sugar to sweeten, when 
cool mash them through a fine colander, add lemon juice and 
water and freeze. A little more sugar may be required; the 
amount needed will depend somewhat on the acidity of the 
fruit. 

Pineapple Ice. 1 cup canned grated pineapple, cup water, 
3 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Add cold water and sugar to the pineapple and let it stand 
half an hour, then add the lemon juice and water and freeze. 
Or the juice may be pressed out through a strainer before 
freezing it, if desired. 

Grape Fruit Ice. cup grape fruit juice, \ cup boiling 
water, cup sugar or more. 

Add the sugar to the boiling water and bring to a good 
boil; when cool, add the grape juice and freeze. 



76 Canning, Preserving, Etc. 

Lemon Ice. J cup lemon juice, cup boiling water, J cup 
sugar or more. 

Make the same as grape fruit ice. 

Ice Cream. \ cup milk, % cup rich cream, 6 drops vanilla 
or more, 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Put the milk into the freezer, and when it has become 
about half frozen add the cream (whipped quite thick), 
sugar, and vanilla; mix well and freeze. By having the 
cream previously whipped and adding it as above, the ice 
cream will have a more velvety appearance than it would by 
mixing it all at once. 

Canning, Preserving, Etc. 

The great secret of canning lies in complete sterilization. 
All fruits and vegetables, as well as the water we drink and 
the air we breathe, are teeming with minute forms of life 
called bacteria or molds or germs. These germs are the sole 
cause of decomposition or rotting, and are the only causes of 
spoilage we have to deal with in canning. 

The exclusion of air from canned articles is not necessary 
provided the air is sterile and free from germs. 

Fruits 

Fruits are usually slightly acid, and in general do not sup- 
port bacterial growth, but are more commonly fermented by 
yeasts. In order to retain the natural flavor of the fruit lit- 
tle sugar should be used, and the fruit should be cooked only 
long enough to insure its preservation. It is unnecessary to 
boil the syrup previously. The sugar may be dissolved in 
cold water in right proportion to the kind of frait used, and 
poured over the fruit in the jars. The fruit should be per- 
fectly sound and not overripe. It should always be sorted; 
ripe fruit and hard fruit should never be cooked in the same 
jar. All stewpans, strainers, glass jars, and tops should be 
put on in cold water, heated to the boiling point, and then 
boil for ten minutes before using. The quantity of sugar used 



Canning, Preserving, Etc. 77 

will vary with the kind of fruit used, and somewhat with the 
locality in which it is grown. The following proportion is 
taken as an average, more or less sugar may be used as the 
case may require: 

SYRUPS, - 

Apricots, 2^ quarts water to 1 quart sugar 
Peaches, 3 " " " 1 " 

Pears, 3 to 4 " " " 1 " 
Plums, sour 1J " " " 1 " 

Berries may be canned by this method, using about two 
pounds of sugar to ten pounds of berries, add the sugar to the 
stemmed and washed berries, let stand one hour, fill jars and 
cook the same as for ripe apricots. Most people prefer to 
bring the berries to boil on top of the stove with sugar 
needed, and fill them into hot glass jars and seal them. 

Apricots. Preferably canned whole. Wash and pack into 
glass jars, put on the rubber ring, and fill with syrup. Screw 
the covers on loosely, and set the jars into a boiler with a false 
bottom in it to keep the jars from resting on the bottom of 
the kettle. Pour cold water into the boiler until the jars are 
about two thirds immersed in water. Heat gradually to the 
boiling point, and let boil for ten minutes after boiling begins. 
Then remove the cover from one jar and stick the point of a 
knife into the fruit, if it is quite tender, set the jar into a 
shallow pan of hot water and run the blade of a silver knife 
down the side of the fruit to let the foam rise to the top; fill 
to overflowing with boiling syrup and screw the top on tightly. 
Tarn up side down on the table to make sure there is no leak. 
Let it remain thus until next day, then wipe the jar with a 
damp cloth and set the fruit in a cool, dark place. 

Peaches. Use free-stone peaches. Peel and cut them in 
halves, removing the stones, except that a few may be put 
into each jar for flavor. Pack the fruit into jars, and finish 
the same as for apricots. 

Pears. Peel and cut the fruit into halves. Remove the 



78 Canning, Preserving, Etc. 

seeds, etc., and proceed in the same way as for peaches. 

Plums. Wash and peel the plums, saving out the small 
ones and the peel for jelly. Pack the fruit into jars and fin- 
ish the same as apricots. 

Jelly. To each fifteen pounds plums and peel, add about 
two quarts cold water, and set on the stove, care being taken 
not to burn them. When they are thoroughly done, pour 
into a bag or cloth in which the mesh is not woven too closely 
together, and hang up to drip. To each quart of juice thus 
made add one quart of sugar and bring to boil; skim, and let 
it continue to boil for thirty minutes, if only one quart of 
juice; forty minutes, if one gallon; and about fifty minutes 
to one hour for five to ten gallons. Take glasses out of hot 
water and fill, let them stand forty-eight hours, then pour 
over them enough hot parafine to cover. 

If plums are picked just after a rain or heavy dew, they 
will contain much more water than otherwise, then they will 
require less water, and it is always safest to boil a small 
quanity first as a test before making a large quatity of jelly. 

Vegetables 

The spoiling of vegetables is due primarily to bacteria. 
Being much more resistant to heat than yeasts, they re- 
quire longer cooking than fruits. While the parent bac- 
teria may be destroyed by a temperature of boiling water, 
the seeds or spores retain their vitality at that temperature 
for a long time, and upon cooling will germinate and begin 
their destructive work. Therefore it is found necessary, in 
order to completely sterilize a vegetable, to heat it to the 
boiling point and keep it to that temperature for one hour, 
for two or three successive days. 

String Beans. Break the ends off, remove strings, wash, 
drain, and pack them into cans provided for that purpose. 
Make a solution of one ounce salt to two and one-half quarts 
water, and pour it on the beans, filling the cans four-fifths 
full. Solder tightly, and when they have boiled one hour, 



Combinations, Menu-Making 79 

puncture the end to let out the steam, then in five minutes 
resolder and let remain until next day, when they should be 
boiled one hour more, and on the third day repeat the boil- 
ing. They may then be stored. They need not be punc- 
tured except after the first cooking. 

Corn. Secure young corn. Scour down the rows and 
press out the pulpy material; add enough salted water to 
make it quite soft, using a preparation of one ounce salt to 
one and one-half quarts water, and finish the same as string 
beans. A very little sugar should be added to the corn, also 
to green peas, which are canned by the same method. 

Combinations and Menu-Making 

The art of planning and combining is one of no small im- 
portance to the housewife or cook. The very best foods may 
be combined or served in such combinations as to bring dis- 
tress to the digestive organs, and produce weakness instead 
of strength. 

Because human beings differ so much and their needs are 
so varied, it is impossible to lay down any set of rules on 
diet for all alike. But there are general principles by which 
everyone may be guided in matters of diet, and which, if 
heeded, can accomplish more for the individual or family, in 
maintaining a healthy condition of the body, than all the 
doctor's prescriptions. 

It is therefore important for those who have to plan for 
the family to have a working knowledge of the principles 
which guide and direct in making out a balanced menu. In 
the first place there should not be a great variety at any 
one meal. Several articles of food at the same meal work 
up fermentation, and the food does not nourish the system. 

While perhaps all can not eat the same foods (and it might 
be well always to plan so there can be some individual choice 
in the matter of foods to be eaten), yet a very common er- 
ror, and one that is so often committed with none but the 
best intentions, is that of loading the table down with every 



80 Combinations, Menu-Making 

possible variety of food. True, the same dishes prepared in 
the same way should not appear on the table meal after 
meal, and day after day. The food should be varied, and 
the cook should plan to have different foods served in differ- 
ent ways so as to have the table always looking fresh and 
inviting. 

A great variety at one meal encourages overeating, bring- 
ing distress and feebleness in its train. Overtaxation of the 
digestive organs is a bad form of dissipation, and is said to 
be the caut>e of more disease, whether directly or indirectly, 
than is caused by all alcoholic dissipation combined, the lat- 
ter very often being due to the former. 

There is no little truth in the statement made by an Eng- 
lish surgeon, Dr. Abernethy, that, "One-fourth of what we 
eat keeps us; the other three-fourths we keep at the peril of 
our lives. " While this statement may seem to some to be 
somewhat exaggerated, yet it is a well known fact that most 
of us eat more than we really need for the proper sustenance 
of the body; and when carried to the extreme, the energies 
of the body are dissipated in ridding the system of a dead 
weight of surplus material. While the cook can not be held 
responsible for the course of individuals in these matters, 
yet it is within his power not only to plan the meal in such a 
manner as to encourage right habits and thus alleviate suf- 
fering, but, being guided by sound principles, can make the 
work educational in character. Soft foods, several articles 
of food at the same meal, and hasty eating or bolting of 
food, all lead to overeating. 



Then again it is not well to eat fruit and vegetables at the 
same meal. Fresh fruits are very easily digested in the 
stomach, a sweet apple being digested in the stomach in from 
one hour to one hour and a half, while many of the coarser 
foods require from three to four hours or more for their 
digestion in the stomach. When these are taken together, 
the fruits, mixed with other foods, are kept in the stomach 
for such a long period of time that they ferment, and the 



Combinations, Menu-Making 81 

formation of vinegar or alcohol is the result. Acid fruits 
and coarse vegetables, as roots and tubers, are an especially 
bad combination. Many people, who think a certain food 
does not agree with them, often learn that the trouble is not 
with the food, but with the combination in which they have 
been taken. Tne finer vegetables, known as the fruity 
vegetables, as squash, tomatoes, peas, corn, etc., can be 
used by most people where a fruit dessert or fresh fruit is 
served, and these principles should be taken into considera- 
tion in all our planning. 

Grains, fruits, and nuts are a good combination; also grains, 
or cereals, vegetables, and nuts. It might be well to say 
that while grams and fruits are a good combination, it should 
be remembered that to pour acid fruits over rice, bread, or 
any starchy food to soften it, not only hinders the flow of 
saliva, but the acid of the fruit so neutralizes the saliva as 
to hinder the digestion of the food in the stomach. If starchy 
foods be thoroughly masticated first, and the fruit eaten 
afterwards, then the food will be in a condition to be easily 
acted upon by the digestive juices. The free use of milk 
and sugar taken together works untold harm and should be 
avoided. Milk and acid fruits are a bad combination, and 
should not be taken together. 

Then there should be a simplicity about the preparation of 
food; a nicety that should appeal to the finer instincts of 
people. Complex mixtures and highly seasoned foods ought 
to be an insult to a healthy, normal stomach. 

Nature has provided an abundance of natural flavors in the 
different foods which do not irritate the delicate organs of 
digestion, but which have a pleasing effect. Food should be 
prepared and served in an appetizing manner, and should 
appeal to the sense of sight as well as to that of taste. The 
sight and smell of pleasing food starts the flow of the digest- 
ive fluids, while disagreeable odors and sights hinder it. 

Many people make themselves sick by thinking continu- 
ously about what they eat, and fearing lest it may not agree 
with them. The secret of good digestion is thorough mas- 
tication; this is the part over which we have control. This 
settled, together with the proper combination and prepara- 
tion of food, we are to choose those things that experience 
and sound judgment tell us are the best suited to our indi- 
vidual cases, and eat them with joy and a thankful heart, 
and then forget all about the rest. Nature will do her part 
faithfully if left unencumbered. 

In making out a well balanced menu, there is need to con- 



82 Combinations, Menu- Making 

sider not only the properties of the food but its adaption to 
the eater. rood can be eaten freely by persons engaged in 
physical labor which must be avoided by those whose worn, is 
chiefly mental. Ihen again, we should always plan so that, 
as far as combination is concerned, we shall set before people 
foods that combine well together. Suppose, for instance, 
we should have vegetable soup first; most people will no 
doubt partaKe of it when it is set before them. Then we 
have already started them on a vegetable dinner; now, should 
we have a fruit salad or fruit dessert, with perhaps other 
coarse vegetables, it is very apparent there is a lack of 
judgment on the part of the one responsible. Such mistakes 
can be avoided without inconven ence when making out the 
plans, by putting a c/eam of peas, or tomato, or other li.\e 
soup, instead of the vegetable, whenever fiuit is taken into 
the combination. While it is true that people need not par- 
take of everything before them, yet there are some things 
most people will use, and these things should always betaken 
into consideration while making out the plans. We should 
always plan so that the soup, the relishes, and the dessert, 
if any, shall harmonize as far as combination is concerned; 
and if fruit, as fruit salad or fruit dessert, is used, there 
should be at least one of the finer vegetables, as tomatoes, 
squash, corn, etc., to choose from; and at another time, when 
fruit is omitted from the menu, we may plan a good vegeta- 
ble dinner, in which any of the coarser vegetables may be com- 
bined with some dish in the form of grains, legumes, or nut 
food. 

In seeking to supply foods that will give proper nourish- 
ment to the body, we should avoid the extremes in both direc- 
tions; on the one hand that which tends toward an impover- 
ished diet, and on the other hand that which brings into one 
meal too many heavy, highly concentrated foods. Fresh vege- 
tables, especially the coarse vegetables, contain a large pro- 
portion of water in their composition. These vegetables of 
themselves would fail of supplying proper nutrition to the 
body. But when served with the more solid foods, as grains, 
legumes, nuts, or nut foods, they furnish bulk to the food, 
and are rich in mineral matter. Perhaps one of the more 
solid foods, rich in nutritive value, together with other vege- 
tables prepared in a simple manner, would give variety and 
amnle choice for most people. 

The following: suggestive menus will help to illustrate the 
working out of some of these principles. 



Suggestive Menu 



BREAKFAST 

STRAWBERRIES STEWED PRUNES 

WHOLEWHEAT PUFFS 
BROWNED RICE CORN FLAKES 

WALNUT LENTILS ON TOAST 

CREAM HONEY 

CEREAL COFFEE 



DINNER 

CREAM OF GREEN PEAS 
OLIVES SLICED TOMATO 

RICE AND MACARONI CROQUETTES 
BAKED POTATO SUMMER SQUASH 

WHOLEWHEAT BREAD 
CONCORD GRAPES APPLE PIE 



LUNCHEON 

APPLES RED RASPBERRIES FRESH FIGS 

CREAM TOAST 
TOASTED GRANOSE BUSCUIT WHOLEWHEAT STICKS 

CRACKERS 
NECTAR CEREAL COFFEE 




Suggestive Menu 

BREAKFAST 



SLICED BANANAS CANTALOUPE 

POACHED EGG 
BAKED POTATO 

CORN BREAD TOASTED RICE BUSCUIT 

CREAM OLIVE OIL MELTOSE 

CEREAL COFFEE 



DINNER 

LETTUCE AND EGG CELERY HEARTS STUFFED DATE SALAD 

NEW ENGLAND STEW 
MASHED POTATO BAKED EAR CORN 

FRUIT BREAD 
MIXED NUTS PRUNE PUDDING WITH CREAM 

WATERMELON 



LUNCHEON 

PEACHES STEAMED FIGS APPLE SAUCE 

RICE GRUEL PUFFED WHEAT BERRIES FRUIT CRISPS 

CREAM HONEY 

YOGURT CEREAL COFFEE 










# 



