Jfl'S. l)ll.-'h's 

Cook 7k»it: 




rjass TAXIS ' 



Book 



i*tN?.. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 








MRS. DWELLE'S 



COOK BOOK 



— ■•<>— «*■-£-•«>.• — 



A MANUAL 

OF 

PRACTICAL RECIPES. 



■ »■ ^ ^ '»»i — 



ST. LOUIS. MO.: 
EV. E. CARRERAS. PRINTER AND BINDER. 






-X. 
Copyridhi 1*11 b> CARRIE E DWELLE 






<£ c;. 



CONTENTS. 



Suggestions for General Cookery . 5 

Soups 10 

Fish 19 

BggS 35 

Bread 45 

Macaroni. Rice, Spaghetti ... 61 

Potatoes. 69 

Vegetables 73 

Salads 83 

Meats 97 

Useful Information 107 

Pastry 117 

Puddings and Desserts 127 

Cakes 141 

Jellies 161 

French Words in Cooking . . 167 

Index 171 

Advertisements 175 



SUGGESTIONS FOR GENERAL COOKERY. 



In all recipes calling for flour, the flour is 
sifted first, then measured level. Butter, spices, 
seasonings, salt and other solids are measured 
level. To measure a level spoonful, dip the 
spoon in the dry material, taking a heaping 
spoonful, and level off with a knife. Any part 
of a spoonful may be obtained by cutting length- 
wise for the half, and crosswise for the quarter. 

A tablespoonful of butter melted is measured 
before it is melted. 

A cup of cream whipped is measured before 
it is whipped. 

A cup of whipped cream is measured after it 
is whipped. 

One-half cup of butter equals one-fourth pound ; 
two level tablespoons butter equals one ounce; 
four level tablespoons flour equals one ounce ; 
sixteen tablespoons liquid equals one cup ; four 
saltspoons equals one teaspoon ; four teaspoons 
equals one tablespoon ; twelve tablespoons (dry 
material) equals one cupful ; four cupfuls (flour) 
equals one pound ; one cupful granulated sugar 
equals one-half pound. 

Always sift powdered sugar, spices, salt, mus- 
tard, baking powder, and soda before measur- 
ing, as much more than the quantity called for 



6 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

will be used if measured in a solid state as found 
in the original package. 

MIXING — To stir, is to mix materials by 
stirring round and round, increasing the circle 
and to blend the material. 

To beat, is to mix over and over, letting the 
bowl of the spoon touch the bottom of the mix- 
ing bowl, and carrying the mixture across to op- 
posite side and repeat so as to incorporate all 
the air-cells possible into the mixture. 

To fold and cut, is to turn the mixture over, 
cut down and lift up, folding the mixture so 
as to just blend the material, but not break the 
air-cells. 

A good thing to remember in making cust- 
ards is that over-cooking causes a separation ; 
unless too far gone the smoothness may be 
restored with a Dover eggbeater or by pouring 
from one pitcher to another. Soft custards 
should be made in double boiler. Baked cus- 
tards should be placed in a pan of hot water while 
in the oven. In making jellies or dressing, where 
the beaten eggs are added to a hot mixture, al- 
ways turn the mixture on to the eggs, beating 
rapidly. This prevents the curdling so often 
found in jellies and cooked dressing. 

EGGS. 

Soft Cooked — Put the eggs in cold water and 
bring to 175 degrees Fahrenheit, let them stand 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 7 

from six to eight minutes. Hard cooked — Put 
in cold water, bring to 175 degrees Fahrenheit, 
then set back from the fire and keep hot 45 
minutes. Cooked in this way, the albumen is 
reduced to a jelly-like substance, easy of diges- 
tion, and the yolks are dry and mealy. When 
the water is allowed to boil, the egg is tough, 
horny, and indigestible. Poached — Put in water, 
132 to 160 degrees temperature, having water 
enough to cover the eggs ; as soon as a film is 
formed over the yolk and the white is set and 
jelly-like, remove from water and serve at once. 
Scrambled — Cook over boiling water, breaking 
into long curds as they cook. Break eggs by 
one quick stroke on the side of the cup. If 
white is clear the egg is good. To beat eggs 
separately, means to beat the yolks and whites 
separately. The yolks of eggs may be kept 
fresh by covering them with cold water till 
needed. If kept longer than a day or two, change 
the water. 

VEGETABLES. 

When part of an onion has been used it is 
more profitable to throw the remaining part away, 
unless you wrap it in paper, as a cut onion is a 
natural disinfectant, absorbing all that can be 
drawn from its surroundings, thus making itself 
unfit for use. 

Never use a wooden spoon for stirring anything 



8 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

flavored with onions, as wood absorbs the flavor 
of the onion, and for some time after, whatever 
the spoon is used for, will be flavored with onion. 

MILK. 

Heat milk for jellies, sauces, custards, etc., 
in double boiler covered ; it prevents the casein 
from rising to top, forming a crust. 

SAUCES. 

For white, cream and meat sauces, blend the 
butter and flour in saucepan, first melting but- 
ter, but do not heat to frying point, then add 
flour ; stir till well mixed, then add liquid little 
at a time, stir constantly but slowly till thick 
and smooth. 

CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

In the following recipes where butter is used 
for sauteing or for sauces, it should first be 
clarified as follows : Heat the butter to the melt- 
ing point, let it stand a short time, then skim, 
decant, or turn off the clear liquid without in- 
cluding any of the sediment. Butter thus pre- 
pared can be kept in a glass or earthen jar ready 
for use. 

FRYING: — All recipes where the food is fried 
call for deep fat (enough to cover the articles to 
be fried), as this is by far the most healthful 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 9 

manner of frying, a crust being formed at once, 
thus preventing the absorption of the fat. 

TO FILLET A FISH :— Lay the fish on its 
side on a board and with thin, sharp knife re- 
move the fins ; then loosen the skin around the 
long part of the gills and strip it off toward the 
tail ; then cut each side of the backbone, working 
as close to the bone as possible till the flesh 
is free. Then divide into strips two inches wide 
and seven inches long. These may be fried or 
broiled plain, or stuffed and rolled (fastening 
with little wooden skewers), and fried in deep 
fat, 



10 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 



SOUPS. 



Nothing is easier than to make good soups, if 
only a few simple rules are learned and ob- 
served. They are among the most nutritious 
and inexpensive of foods presented to us. and 
for the sake of economy and health every house- 
keeper should make it her business to find out 
the essential points in their preparation. 

Soups are divided into two great classes : 
soups with stock, soups without stock. Soups 
with stock have, for their basis, beef, veal, mut- 
ton, fish, poultry, or game, separately or in com- 
bination. 

Cream soups are made with vegetables or 
stock, and milk, usually slightly thickened with 
flour or arrowroot. 

Purees are made with or without stock, and 
are thickened with sifted vegetable pulp. In 
these, a small quantity of flour should be used 
for thickening, in order that the vegetables may 
be held in solution and the soup be smooth. 

Bisques hold a place about half way between 
cream soups and purees. Cream soups are 
smoother than either bisques or purees, and in 
consistency the bisques are thicker than creams, 
but thinner than purees. 



Mrs. Dwelh's Cook Book 11 

The best thickening for soups which are not 
clear is roux, according to the color of the soup. 
Roux is prepared by melting butter, when this 
is bubbling hot, add to it an equal quantity of 
flour, and cook one minute if for white. If for 
brown roux, allow it to cook until brown, stirring 
constantly to prevent burning. Thin the roux 
with a little of the soup before adding it to the 
whole quantity, in this way avoiding lumps. 

BROWN SOUP-STOCK. 

Six pounds beef, one onion, two carrots, two 
stalks of celery, a sprig of parsley, four cloves, 
eight peppercorns, two bay-leaves, six quarts cold 
water. 

Select meat from the shank or some other part 
having little fat and a fair proportion of bone. 
Cut the meat in inch cubes, crack the bones and 
put into the stock-pot with three-quarters of the 
meat, the spices, and half the vegetables cut up 
fine. Add the water, and allow to stand half an 
hour to draw out the juices of the meat. Put 
two tablespoons of butter or beef-drippings in 
a pan, add the remaining meat, and brown; then 
add the chopped vegetables, and brown them 
without scorching. Add browned meat and vege- 
tables to the stock and set the kettle on the 
stove. Allow to come gradually to the boiling- 
point, then set back, and simmer for six hours. 
At the end of this time, remove from the fire 



12 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

and strain through a fine sieve. Add salt and 
other seasonings, and serve. 



WHITE STOCK. 

One knuckle-veal, one fowl, one bay-leaf, one 
onion, two stalks celery, three sprigs parsley. 
Cut meat from bone and break bone in pieces. 
Wash skin of fowl thoroughly, using a cloth and 
bowl of water. Then cut in pieces. Add the 
vegetables cut in small pieces, and one quart of 
water for each pound of meat and bone. Place 
all in a kettle ; allow to come to boiling-point, 
cover, and simmer four or five hours. Strain, 
and cool uncovered. 

White stock may be made of veal alone. If 
a fowl is used, the breast and second-joints may 
be removed when tender and used for other 
dishes, croquettes, etc. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Use neck fat and giblets ; cover them with cold 
water ; cook them slowly for an hour, then add 
a bay leaf, a slice of carrot, a little celery and 
onion, and cook one hour longer. Strain ; cut the 
giblets into small pieces and add them to the 
soup ; season ; add a teaspoon of kitchen boquet, 
a half lemon sliced very thin and one hard boiled 

egg- 



Mr 8. Dwelle's Cook Book 13 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

The original recipe for Mulligatawny comes 
from India. The name itself is a composite of 
two East Indian names. 

Boil a fowl so that when it is done you will 
have five pints of broth, cook in this broth half a 
pint of rice and a small turnip cut in small dice ; 
when done add the white meat of the chicken cut 
in small squares, one teaspoon curry, season with 
salt and pepper, thicken with flour. 

CHICKEN GUMBO SOUP. 

One chicken, one carrot, one turnip, one large 
onion, one cup strained tomato, one slice of ham, 
one can of okra, or one pint of fresh okra after 
it has been cut in small pieces. Cut the chicken 
in small pieces; the ham into thin strips and fry 
them in butter. Mince the carrot, turnip, and 
onion ; put them in the sauce pan with the chick- 
en. When they get brown add two quarts of 
water. Tie in a piece of cheese cloth a little 
thyme, parsley, one bay leaf, and four cloves ; 
drop this in the soup. Boil until the chicken is 
tender, then add the okra. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Clean and wash one calf's head ; soak one hour 
in cold water to cover. Cook until tender in 



14 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

three quarts boiling salted water, to which has 
been added, one cupful of mixed vegetables, cel- 
ery, carrots, turnips, onions, six cloves one-half 
teaspoon peppercorns, six allspice berries and a 
sprig of thyme. Take out the head ; boil stock 
until reduced to two quarts. Melt one-half cup 
butter, add one-half cup flour and stir until well 
browned; then pour on slowly the strained stock, 
one cup strained tomatoes, one cup face meat cut 
in dice, one hard boiled egg chopped fine. Sim- 
mer five minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste 
and juice of one-half a lemon. A little Madeira 
wine can be added. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

One quart brown soup stock, one-fourth cup 
macaroni, broken in half inch pieces, salt, pepper. 
Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until soft. 
Drain, and add to stock, heated to boiling point. 
Season with salt and pepper. Spaghetti or other 
Italian pastes may be substituted for macaroni. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

To one quart clear brown soup stock, add one- 
fourth cup each carrot and turnip, cut in thin 
strips one and one-half inches long, previously 
cooked in boiling salted water, and two table- 
spoons each cooked peas and string beans. Heat 
to boiling point. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 15 

CORN SOUP. 

One can corn, one pint boiling water, one 
pint milk, one slice onion, two tablespoons but- 
ter, two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon salt, 
pepper. 

Cook corn, water and onion 20 minutes; rub 
through a strainer. Scald milk and add it to 
the butter blended together, then add to the 
corn stock, and season with the salt and pep- 
per. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Cook three medium sized potatoes in boil- 
ing salted water until tender rub through a 
strainer. Scald one quart milk with two slices 
of onion, remove onion and add to the potatoes. 
Melt three tablespoons butter, add two table- 
spoons flour, one and one-half teaspoons salt, 
y 2 teaspoon celery salt, l /% teaspoon pepper, stir 
until well mixed then stir into boiling soup. 
Cook two minutes, strain. Sprinkle with one 
teaspoon chopped parsley. Serve. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Cook small can of tomatoes thirty minutes 
with tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt and 
Y^ teaspoon soda. Melt y$ cup butter, add four 
tablespoons flour, cook two minutes then add 



16 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

gradually one pint of milk and y 2 pint of cream. 
Add to tomatoes after they have been strained. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Prepare equal measures of fish freed from skin 
and bone, and potatoes cut in one-half inch slices. 
For one pint of fish, fry two tablespoons salt 
pork chips until dry, take out the scraps and 
cook two tablespoons onion in the fat, season 
the fish with salt and pepper and roll the bits 
in two tablespoons flour, toss them in the hot 
fat until well seared, then cover and turn down 
the gas so that they may cook very slowly. 
Parboil the potatoes for ten minutes, then drain 
and add to the fish with the broth from the bones 
and skin of fish. Simmer gently until well 
done, about thirty minutes, then add one table- 
spoon butter, one cup or more of milk, six 
crackers broken in small pieces. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Cook one bunch asparagus for half hour, in 
boiling salted water. Remove from liquor and 
cut tips into tureen from which the soup is to 
be served. Keep hot. Mash through sieve the 
remaining stalks. Put three cups milk to scald 
and when boiling turn into liquor from which 
asparagus has just been taken. Rub into smooth 
paste, three tablespoons Kingsford Cornstarch 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 17 

and three tablespoons butter. Put in saucepan 
and add gradually a part of the soup stock, cook- 
ing gently until all is like cream. When this 
is done, turn into soup stock, add asparagus 
pulp, season to taste, with salt, pepper and a 
little Karo Syrup and stir till boiling. Strain 
into tureen where tips have been kept hot. Serve 
with toasted strips of bread. 



OYSTER PLANT (OR SALSIFY) SOUP. 

Prepare and cut into small pieces, two bunches 
oyster plant. Boil and mash fine when soft. 
Put one quart milk into double boiler with one 
small onion. When boiling stir in one-half tea- 
spoon Kingsford's Cornstarch which has been 
dissolved in a little cold milk, add oyster plant, 
one heaping tablespoon butter and salt and pep- 
per to taste. When again come to the boil, 
strain (mashing all possible vegetable through 
sieve) and serve very hot. 



18 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 19 



FISH. 



Fish builds and repairs muscular flesh and 
tissues; and is digested principally in the stom- 
ach, proper. Fish meat, with but few excep- 
tions, is less stimulating and nourishing than 
meat of other animals, but is easier of diges- 
tion. In white fleshed fish the fat is secreted in 
the liver, therefore are more easily digested than 
the pink flesh variety which has the oil or fats 
distributed through the tissues. The flesh of 
salmon is too rich for many people, and requires 
a corrective, which is found in acids. 

TO DETERMINE FRESHNESS OF FISH. 

Examine the flesh, which should be firm, the 
eyes and gills bright and the flesh free from 
any unpleasant odor. Fish are poisonous if 
stale. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Clean and wipe fish as dry as possible, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and place in well greased 
wire broiler. Slices of fish should be turned often 
while broiling; whole fish should be first broiled 



20 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

on flesh side, then turned and broiled on skin 
side just long enough to make skin brown and 
crisp. 

To remove from broiler, loosen fish on one 
side, turn and loosen on other side ; otherwise 
flesh will cling to broiler. Slip from broiler to 
hot platter, or place platter over fish and invert 
platter and broiler together. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Clean, and bake on a greased fish-sheet placed 
in a dripping-pan. If a fish-sheet is not at 
hand, place strips of cotton cloth under fish, by 
which it may be lifted from pan. 

TO FRY FISH. 

Clean fish and wipe as dry as possible. Sprinkle 
with salt, dip in flour or crumbs, egg f and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

Clean smelts, leaving on heads and tails. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, 
crumbs, and fry three to four minutes in deep 
fat. As soon as smelts are put into fat, remove 
fat to back of range so that they may not be- 
come too brown before cooked through. Ar- 
range on hot platter, garnish with parsley, lemon, 
and fried gelatine. Serve with Sauce Tartare. 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 21 

FILETS OF FISH. 

After the fish has been scalded and cleaned, 
put your hand firmly on the fish and with a 
sharp knife cut from the tail to the head just 
as near the bone as possible, removing all the 
flesh. Turn the fish on the other side and do 
the same thing. Cut the fish into strips all the 
way across and about an inch wide. Roll and 
fasten with a wooden skewer. Dip in egg and 
crumbs and fry in hot fat. Serve with Sauce 
Tyrolian made by cooking one cup strained to- 
matoes until reduced to two tablespoonfuls. Add 
half teaspoonful each of chopped capers, chopped 
olives and chopped gherkin, then add this mix- 
ture to half cup mayonnaise and serve with the 
filets. 

STEAMED HALIBUT. 

Take a two-pound slice of halibut, dust thickly 
with salt and pepper, either put it on a plate 
in a steamer or lay it on a piece of cheese-cloth, 
put it in a colander and stand the colander over 
a kettle of boiling water. Cover the colander, 
cook half an hour. While this is steaming rub 
together two level tablespoons of butter. Stir 
until boiling, take from the fire, add the yolks 
of two eggs, another tablespoonful of butter, 
half teaspoonful of salt, dash of pepper and two 
tablespoonfuls of taragon vinegar. 



28 Mrs. Dieeib'a Cook B: 

PLANKED WHITE FISH. 

Heat and oil an oak plank made for the pur- 
pose : spread upon this, skin side down, a white 
fish, dress< and cleaned and split down the 
under side: brush over with butter or oil. and 
set in the dripping-pan in the lower gas oven, 
at first near the burners ; after cooking a few 
meats remove to the fioor of the oven to 
finish tl ig Cook about twenty-five min- 

er.. Set the fish on the plank 
upon a platter. Spread the fish with three level 
tablespoonfuls of butter, creamed and mixed 
with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Garnish the edge of the plank with 
5, fashioned with a forcing-bag 
tube; slices of lemon and parsley. 

STUFFED BAKED FISH. 

Clean a four-pound fish, sprinkle with salt 
inside and out. stuff and sew. Cut five diag- 

.1 gashes on each side of backbone and in- 
serl w strips of fat salt pork, having gashes 

on one side come between gashes on other side. 
Shape with skewers in form of letter S and fas- 
ten skewers with small twine. Place on gre/. 
fish-sheet in a dripping-pan. sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with fiour. and place around fish small pieces 
of fat salt pork. Bake one hour in hot oven. 



Mes. Dwelle's Cook Book 23 

basting as soon as fat is tried out, and continue 
basting every ten minutes. «6erve with Drawn 
Butter, Egg or Hollandaise Sauce. 

FISH TIMBALES. 

Cook together for ten minutes one-half cup 
of stale bread and one cup of cream, add two 
tablespoons of soft butter, one teaspoon of salt, 
a little pepper and two beaten yolks of eggs. 
Cool slightly and mix with one and one-half 
cups of cooked fish. Add the stiffly beaten whites 
of two eggs, fill buttered timbale molds and 
steam for half an hour, or longer if in one large 
mold. Turn out and pour the sauce around. 

Hollandaise Sauce. — Cream one-third of a cup 
of butter, add one teaspoon of flour, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, a little pepper and one table- 
spoon of lemon juice. Mix slowly with half a 
cup of hot water, cook for several minutes over 
boiling water, add two beaten yolks of eggs 
and serve. This is also excellent with baked 
fish. 

FRESH FISH BALLS. 

One pint cold boiled fish picked apart, add 
an equal quantity of mashed potato, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and one-eighth teaspoonful black 
pepper, mix; add the yolk of an egg, a teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Form into balls, dip in white 



24 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

of an egg that has been beaten with a table- 
spoonful of water; roll in crumbs and fry in hot 
fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Blend two level tablespoonfuls of butter and 
flour; add one cup of strained salt and pep- 
per. Strain and use. 

CODFISH IN CREAM. 

Wash half a pound of salt codfish, cover with 
cold water and soak it over night. Next morn- 
ing pick it apart, cover it with boiling water; 
bring to boiling point and drain. Cover again 
with boiling water and cook slowly about ten 
minutes. Drain again. Put four level table- 
spoonfuls of butter and two of flour into a sauce- 
pan and cook until smooth ; add one pint of 
milk, stir until boiling; now add the codfish. 
Stand over hot water for ten minutes ; add the 
eggs and serve at once. 

CANNED SALMON. 

Canned salmon may be simply heated and used 
as the main dish for a luncheon or Friday din- 
ner. After it is properly heated, turn on a dish, 
cover with Sauce Hollandaise, garnish with le- 
mon and parsley. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 25 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until creamy; 
add gradually eight tablespoonfuls of clarified 
butter, beating all the while. Stand the bowl 
over a kettle of hot water while adding the 
butter. Add half a teaspoon of salt and a 
tablespoonful of taragon vinegar. 



FISH BALLS. 

One cup salt codfish, two heaping cups pota- 
toes, one egg Y> tablespoon butter, Yz teaspoon 
pepper. 

Wash fish in cold water, and pick in very 
small pieces, or cut, using scissors. Wash, pare, 
and soak potatoes, cutting in pieces of uniform 
size before measuring. Cook fish and potatoes 
in boiling water to cover until potatoes are soft. 
Drain through strainer, return to kettle in which 
they were cooked, mash thoroughly (being sure 
there are no lumps left in potato), add butter, 
egg well beaten, and pepper. Beat with a fork 
two minutes. Add salt if necessary. Take up 
by spoonfuls, put in frying-basket, and fry one 
minute in deep fat, allowing six fish balls each 
for each frying; drain on brown paper. Re- 
heat the fat after each frying. 



ft Ms. I < 

CREAMED FISH. 
ircc 

eggs u - i Woi cos! - shire sauce. 

two cups c - Ufa 

i >a 1 : 
v.- . - . toai 

testers 

It 1 . . ckeiu :o h>h. 

Serw itrnts .- . 

BAKED FINNAN HADPIE. 

wmti ■ - - v.ck ct 

. . ■ . \\ '.n I.e: s'.ar.c 5 . 'J> 

minutes; - - 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL. 
Soi ^ ~ ' - . .iking 

- e .-. g esse then rins< 

i sktmnu mXk Place 

the milk 
well grensi :i bac. i 

sow ese a lit 



m,h. Dwelled Cook Hook 27 

lemon j nice over, dust il with pepper, dot wit li 
butter, and serve. Or spread with maitre d' 
hotel butter in.nK' l>\ rubbing butter to a cream. 

and addiin; enough salt, pepper, chopped pars 

ley and lemon-juice to flavor ii highly work 
ing all in well, in the Foregoing recipe water 
may be used instead of milk for the scalding, 
but in this case the fish will not be so delicate. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
One pint oysters, one cup crumbs, four level 

tablespoons butter, one teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper, cup oyster liquor, one 

fourth CUp milk. Milt butter and stir in crumbs. 

Put a thin layer in bottom of a buttered shal- 
low baking dish, rover with oysters and sprinkle 

with salt and pepper; add one half each of oys 
ter liquor and milk. Repeal and cover top with 
remaining crumbs. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven. 

Never allow more than two layers of oysters 

for scalloped oysters. These oysters are es- 
pecially nice COOked and served in seallop shells. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain and dry the oysters; dust with salt an 1 
pepper. Heat an egg; add a tablespoonful (^ 
water; heat a^ain. Dip the oysters lightly in 

cracker crumbs, then in the tgg, then again the 

Crumbs. Fry in hot fat, drain on a piece of 



28 Ifr*. : t ( Rook 

brown paper, and servo while hot Oil .1 10k 

napkin. 

OYSTER A LA NEWBEKG. 

One pint oysters, . li cup cream, one tea- 

lion juice. tw\ utter, one- 

half teaspoon salt, one-halt teaspoon paprica, two 
level teaspoons tlour. on< teasp< lemon juice, 
yolk oi v egg. Pick ove oysters to be rid 

oi all bits oi shell Nfelt one tablespoon butt* 

s, salt, -v mon juice, 

c ok three minu 1 :"t remaining '.able- 

spoon butter, add tnd when bleu 1 

en - then the yolk oi the egg eaten - g ■"> ; 
cook until it thickens, st . slowrj . add to 
the oysters and serve 

FAN RAKED OYSTERS. 

Was in the oysters, put in the bot- 

1 ce oi 1st; put on 

\ sters. a >ting t salt a 
pepper 1 bit oi butter. Rake quick!) in a 

oven, 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Akaw eight small ravi oysters (or each pa 
son seas 1 one tablespoon vine&rai 

One Bibles : ■ i: teaspooa 

Hot, rinely ch >ps Tobasco 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Hook 29 

sauce and salt, Serve in cocktail glass and 
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley ; or in one- 
half of a grape fruit, from which the tough por- 
tion has been removed, and sprinkle with fmcly 

chopped celery, 

TOASTED CORN FLAKE FISH CUTLETS. 

Melt three level tablespoons of butter in a 
saucepan, when bubbling hot, but not brown, 
add tour level tablespoons of Hour, and then 

add gradually one cup of milk. Cook until 
smooth. Take from the lire and add two cups 
oi canned salmon freed from skin and bone, two 
tablespoons of lemon juice, one teaspoon of salt, 

y% teaspoon of paprica. Mix well and place on 
ice until cold. Just before shaping" add two 
cups of ECellogg's Toasted Corn Flakes. Shape 
cutlets, dip in egg and Corn Flakes put through 
food chopper. Fry in hot fat. Drain on soft 
brown paper and serve garnished with a piece 
of lemon and parsley. 

SHREDDED WHEAT OYSTER PATTIES. 

Cook one pint of oysters until they are plump. 
In a sauce pan melt two level tablespoons of but- 
ter, add two level tablespoons of Hour, J4 tea- 
spoon salt, 's teaspoon paprica and */$ teaspoon 
of white pepper, then add one cup milk and one 
cup oyster liquor after oysters have been cooked. 



30 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Bool- 

Cook and stir until smooth, add oysters to the 
sauce and serve in Shredded Wheat Biscuits pre- 
pared as follows : Crush an oblong cavity in the 
top of the Biscuit with the bowl of a teaspoon, 
scrape out the inside shreds and heat thorough- 
ly in the oven. Fill with the oysters and serve 
at once. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER. 

Live lobsters may be dressed for broiling at 
market, or may be done at home. Clean lobster 
and place in a buttered wire broiler. Broil 
eight minutes on flesh side, turn and broil six 
minutes on shell side. Serve with melted but- 
ter. Lobsters taste nearly the same when 
placed in dripping-pan and baked fifteen min- 
utes in hot oven, and are much easier cooked. 

To Split a Live Lobster. Cross large claws 
and hold firmly with left hand. With sharp- 
pointed knife, held in right hand, begin at the 
mouth and make a deep incision, and, with a 
sharp cut, draw the knife quickly through body 
and entire length of tail. Open lobster, re- 
move intestinal vein, liver, and stomach, and 
crack claw shells with a mallet. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Two cups lobster meat dice, one cup thin 
cream, yolks of three eggs beaten light, ten drops 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 31 

onion juice, J/2 teaspoon salt, y% teaspoon pap- 
rica, dash nutmeg, two tablespoons butter. Put 
the butter in the blazer with the salt, paprica, 
and onion juice. When melted add the lobster 
dice, stir, cooking slowly for three minutes, then 
add the cream, nutmeg, and yolks of eggs mixed 
together; stir slowly until thickened, and serve 
on toast. 

FRIED SCALLOPS WITH GARNISH OF 

BACON. 

Wash the scallops ; dry them. Beat an egg, 
add a tablespoon of water; roll the scallops in 
this, then in bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 
Dish on a heated platter. Garnish with parsley 
and serve at once. 

CREAM OF OYSTER SOUP. 

Drain 25 oysters ; put them in a saucepan 
and bring to a boil. Drain and save the liquor. 
Melt two tablespoons of butter, add two table- 
spoons of flour, cook two minutes, then add one 
pint of milk. When boiling add the oyster li- 
quor, which should be y 2 pint, add the oysters, 
and season with salt and pepper. 

GLOUCESTER CODFISH CHOWDER. 

Pick up a cup of Gorton's Codfish and place 
in pint of water to freshen, change water at 



32 Mrs, Dwtttt'* C 

least once. Pare and thinly slice enough raw 

potatoes to make a pint : chop fine one small 
on. Drain the fish and put it into a stew 
. then a layer of potatoes sprinkled with the. 
onion and a little salt and pepper. Cover with 
a cracker broken into crumbs and then add hot 
watei enough to covei and boil tor 'JO min- 
utes, then add two cups of milk, or milk 
atid cream when possible, season to taste and 
let boil up well and serve A little chop 
sley may .1 to season. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE. 

To each cup of Gorton's Finnan Haddie cut 

into sma I piece- I lov< one M\d one-halt cups 

hot milk, two tablespoons of flour, one 'naif 

v: Mix the pepper with the 
•a with the butter and cook 

urn- - Oth, Add the hot milk and haddie and 

cook five minutes 

FISH BALLS AND BACON. 

S ice ..■" fi> e medium-sized • 

es, then dram and mash. Add, one can of 
Season with salt and pepper 
. well-be; g and mix all together 

ghlj . Shi pe into balls or ca - - and fr) 
in ... : Serve with slices of bacon, slightly 

cake. Very delicious 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Hook ,33 

FISH PUDDING. 

Materials. — ( )ne pint of boiled fish, one 
tablespoon of butler, one tablespoon of 
flour, one teaspoon of salt, one-half tea- 
spoon of white pepper, one teaspoon of onion 
juice and two eggs, beaten separately. Cream 
the butter and Hour together and add the salt 
and pepper. Heat the milk in a double boiler 
and add the butter and (lour mixture to it. 
Cook five minutes, then add the onion juice. 
Pass the fish through a fine sieve and add if to 
the other mixture. Remove from the fire and 
add the eggs. Butter a border mold and decor- 
ate it with hard boiled eggs and pimentos. Then 
fdl with the fish mixture. Cover with buttered 
paper and place in a pan of hot water. Cook 
in a moderate oven until set. Unmold into a 
chop platter. Fill the center with fried potato 
balls, sprinkled with parsley. Garnish with 
sprig's of parsley and serve with cream sauce. 



34 *fr. DweUe'a Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwellers Cool: Book 35 



EGGS. 



Eggs form a typical food, inasmuch as they 
contain all the elements necessary for the sup- 
port of the body. They are highly concentrated 
and should be used in combination with other 
foods, rich in starch, such as bread, potatoes, 
etc. 

Strictly fresh eggs should always be used 
if obtainable. An egg after the first twenty- 
four hours steadily deteriorates. If exposed to 
light and air, owing to the porous structure of 
the shell, there is an evaporation of water, air 
rushes in, and decomposition takes place. 

When eggs come from the market always 
wash them and put away in a cool dark place. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Have ready a saucepan containing boiling 
water. Carefully put in with a spoon the num- 
ber of eggs desired, covering them with water. 
Remove saucepan to back of range, where water 
will not boil. Cook from six to eight minutes 
if liked "soft boiled," forty to forty-five if liked 
"hard boiled." Eggs may be cooked by placing 



oG Mrs. Pic die's Cook Book 

in cold water and allowing- to heat gradually 

until the boiling point is reached, when they 
will be "soft boiled". In using hard-boiled eggs 
for making other dishes, when taken from the 
hot water they should be plunged into cold 
water to prevent, it possible, discoloration of 
yolks. 

Eggs perfectly cooked should be placed and 
kept in water at a uniform temperature of 175 
degrees Fahrenheit 

POACHED EGGS. 

Select perfectly fresh eggs. Take the desired 
number of eggs and a saucer to the stove; break 
an egg into the saucer, slide it quickly into the 
boiling water, pull the pan to the side of the 
stove where the water will not boil. Continue 
dropping in the eggs until you have the re- 
quired number, then with a spoon baste the 
water over the yolk so that it is entirely cover- 
ed. Lift each egg with a skimmer, trim off the 
edges, and place on a piece of buttered toast. 

Make the toast quickly and roll the crust or 
edge in boiling water at the last moment. 

EGGS CREOLE. 

Rub the bottom of a shirring dish with a little 
butter. Drop in two eggs, stand them in the 
oven until the eggs are set. Have ready a 



Mrs. Dioelle's Cook Book 37 

Creole sauce made of tomatoes, peppers and 
onions carefully cooked together. Tut two table- 
spoonfuls of this on a side dish and send to 
the table. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Four eggs, half cup thin cream, one table- 
spoon butter, one-fourth teaspoon salt, three 
tablespoons grated old English cheese, one- 
eighth teaspoon paprica. Break the eggs separ- 
ately in a saucer. Melt the butter in the blazer, 
then add the cream and when it is hot slip the 
eggs in. When the eggs are nearly cooked, 
sprinkle over them the grated cheese, and sea- 
son with the salt and paprica. Place the eggs 
on the toast, turn the cream over them and 
serve. 

EGGS LAFAYETTE. 

Five hard cooked eggs chopped, but not very 
fine. Make a half pint of curry sauce. Put the 
chopped eggs over a bed of carefully boiled rice. 
Cover with curry sauce. Garnish with strips of 
Spanish pepper and serve. Can use tomato sauce 
instead of curry. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Put two level tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
teaspoon of scraped onion in a sauce pan ; add 
scant teaspoonful of curry powder; stir, take 



38 Mrs, Dwelh's Cook Book 

from the fne, add two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour, mix thoroughly and add a half pint of boil- 
ing water; return to tire and cook until the 
sauce is smooth and has reached the boiling 
point. Add half teaspoonful of salt and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Can be served 
with boiled rice, curried chicken, cauliflower, lima 
beans or lamb. 



FANCY OMELET. 

Four eggs, four tablespoons cold water, y£ 
teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon white pepper, two 
tablespoons butter. Break the eggs and beat 
the yolks lightly with the salt, pepper and water. 
Beat whites stiff and fold lightly into the yolks. 
Melt butter in omelet pan, and when hot turn 
in the omelet and cook until under side is light 
brown and top is dry. Loosen from edges, fold 
over and turn onto a hot plate, and serve at once 
with tomato sauce poured around it. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One cup strained tomatoes, one bay leaf. Yi 
teaspoon scraped onion, sprig parsley, salt and 
pepper to taste. Boil five minutes, remove the 
parsley and bay leaf and thicken with one table- 
spoon butter and one tablespoon flour blended 
together. 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 39 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WTH ONIONS. 

One tablespoon butter, three eggs, one-eighth 
teaspoon salt, one-sixteenth teaspoon pepper, 
one-half teaspoon onion juice. Put butter and 
onion in blazer. When very hot, turn in eggs, 
salt and pepper, slightly beaten together. Stir 
with a fork till cooked, and serve at once on 
toast. 

SCOTCH WOOD COCK. 

One and one-half tablespoons butter, one and 
one-half tablespoons flour, five hard cooked eggs, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, four Shredded Wheat 
Biscuit, one-eighth teaspoon white pepper, one 
cup thin cream, one-half teaspoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Make a sauce of the cream, butter, 
flour, salt and pepper ; add the hard cooked eggs 
chopped fine, season with the Worcestershire 
sauce. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

Four eggs, four tablespoons water, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, y% teaspoon pepper, two tablespoons butter. 
Beat eggs slightly, just enough to blend yolks 
and whites, add the water and seasonings. Put 
butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, turn in 
the mixture ; as it cooks, prick and pick up with 
a fork until the whole is of creamy consistency. 



40 Mrs. :\ jtte's < tk 

ace on . ; range that it may brown 

ckly underneath. F and turn on hot plat- 
ter. 

SPANISH OMELET. 

Mix and cook a French Omelet Serve with 

Sauce in th< c< and around omelet 

Tomato Sauce. Cook : tables 

with one tables] n of rir.c*\ chopped onion. 

until yellow, A i and thre< iirths cups 

cook until ir. - has nearly 

i L Add one teas n salt, and 

few grains cayenne, a small ] ee< . green 

v. ith butter and 
ion. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Five eggs, one-half cup water, one-half U 
••. salt, le-eigh teasp on pepper, ( 

eggs si ghtly with 

ver foi - - . Heat 

tmelet pan. put in butter, and when melted, turn 
in the mixture. Cook until of creamy c > - 
.. stirring and scraping torn of the 

pan. 

EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH TOMATOES. 

One-half tal U spoon but:, 
scraped - cup strained tomatoes, 

fourth teaspoon salt, on< - ghth teaspoon white 



Mrs. Dwell*' 8 Cook Book 41 

pepper, one-fourth teaspoon sugar, four eggs, 
three Shredcd Wheat Biscuits. Melt butter in 
saucepan, add onion, tomatoes, and the season- 
ing; cover and cook five minutes; set back from 
fire. Then add eggs beaten with a fork, break 
into large curds as they cook, remove and serve 
on the Biscuit that have been split and toasted 
to a light brown in the oven. 

EGGS EN NEST. 

Separate eggs and put whites in one bowl 
and each yolk into a cup by itself, in which is 
a little cold water; beat the whites until light 
and dry. Half fill an egg cup with the beaten 
white. Make a hollow in the center in which 
place a small piece of butter, dust very lightly 
with salt and pepper, lift the yolks of the eggs 
from the cup with a spoon, place it in the hol- 
low, put a tiny bit of butter on top of yolk, and 
set in a pan of hot water until egg is cooked. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Six hard cooked eggs, one teaspoon scraped 
onion, three tablespoons butter, three tablespoons 
flour, one-half teaspoon curry powder, one cup 
milk and one-half cup thin cream hot. Remove 
shells from eggs and cut into slices. Blend to- 
gether scraped onion, butter, flour, and curry 
powder, and cook till a light brown. Pour on 



42 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book- 

slowly the hot milk and cream. Salt and pepper 
to taste, and cook till it thickens. Add the eggs, 
and when warmed through arrange on toasted 
halves of Shredded Wheat Biscuit, and pour the 
sauce over them. 



SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Five hard boiled eggs, one pint White Sauce 
I., one cup chopped cold meat, three-fourths cup 
buttered cracker crumbs. Chop eggs finely. 
Sprinkle bottom of a buttered baking dish with 
crumbs, cover with one-half the eggs, eggs with 
sauce, and sauce with meat ; repeat. Cover with 
remaining crumbs. Place in oven on center 
grate, and bake until crumbs are brown. Ham 
is the best meat to use for this dish. Chicken, 
or veal may be used. 



CREAMED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Two level tablespoons butter, two level table- 
spoons flour, one and one-half cups milk, one- 
half cup grated cheese measured lightly, four 
hard-cooked eggs sliced, salt and paprica to taste. 
Melt butter and when bubbling add flour, stir 
until smooth, then add milk gradually until thick- 
ened. Add grated cheese and when melted add 
eggs. Heat thoroughly and season. Serve on 
Shredded Wheat Toast. 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 43 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Melt three tablespoons of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add four tablespoons of flour, cook two min- 
utes, then add one cup of milk, cook until smooth, 
add one-half teaspoon of salt, one-eighth tea- 
spoon of paprica, and stir in the whites of six 
hard cooked eggs, one teaspoon of chopped pars- 
ley, and, if liked, a few drops of onion juice. 
Turn out to cool, and when cold, take two table- 
spoons of this mixture in the hand, make it into 
a sort of well ; put one teaspoon of the yolk 
that has been put through a potato ricer, in the 
center, and fold the white mixture all over. Dip 
in Qgg and roll in bread crumbs, making a ball. 
Fry in hot fat, and serve with cream sauce. 



44 Afra. Dwelled Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 45 



BREAD. 



Whatever else may be on the table of either 
the rich or poor, the one staple article of diet 
is bread. We have it three times a day, and 
every day in the year. Since it is so largely 
used, we can readily understand the importance 
of having it of the very best quality. 

In early days bread was made from grain 
which had been pounded between two stones, 
mixed into a dough, and baked in flat cakes be- 
tween heated stones. No doubt this bread was 
somewhat hard, but from a hygienic standpoint 
this was a virtue rather than a fault. Because 
the bread was so hard, it had to be masticated, 
and this caused the saliva to be well mixed with 
it, thus aiding in digestion. It also gave exercise 
to the teeth, and in those days people had very 
little use for dentists. 

Bread is made light by the introduction of a 
ferment. The ferment generally used is yeast, 
which is a plant or germ of the fungous tribe. 
It is often found on the skin of grapes, plums 
and other fruits, and is called bloom. 

In making compressed yeast the plant is 
grown in a sweet infusion of malt, rye and corn. 



4o I firs* Dh*IU*s Oo%k Book 

'.-. forms a scum ■■ i eh ■■ he i pat in w iter, 

s-.r.ks I'hc wa:e: is c: . a:: J. :he \;.vs: is 

c pit SSU1 c to I - 
sired c isistencj 

. - . „ * r. .uidtv. :o 

bing con ., - ;':' - c 

tgrees - best 

"\;. — t ... k - : yeas: 
genu. 

In mak tig east acts te dias 

be § ■ 

k - -.-,■ is this ft 

• . . - baches . - ., . 

which ces . c 

lie ac g - i I . g s gas, ii 

ing to es« ces th< 

i the whej - stic 

us the walls 
cells i 

gh th 

the eas evenl; the mixtu wad to 

• steu each tittle starch g i s the 

yeas . ;: , ..;:;co io ac! ugh 

kneadi ig g •• es the ivotb . exturc 

When the - s read] ig, ii is best 

to fa fttc srn ■■ es When cooked ■■■• 

this \\ a) w e ha\ e v :ion ot ci ust. 

the ce - u - - thoroughly 



Mm. DwlWi Cook Book 47 

cooked, The oven should be kept at an even 
temperature throughout the baking. The oven 
may be tested by putting a little flour in a pan 
in the oven, it it browns a golden brown in 
two minutes, the oven is ready for baking the 
bread. 



WHITE BREAD. 
Scald one pint of milk, being careful nol to 

allow it to boil, add one pint of water. When 

mixture is lukewarm, add one cake of com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in four tablespoons of 

lukewarm water, a level teaspoon of salt, and 
one tablespoon o>\ SUgar, Then add a quart of 

flour. Beat for five minutes, then continue add- 
ing flour until you have a dough sufficiently 
thick for kneading, Knead thoroughly until it 
is soft and elastic. Put it in a pan or a howl, 
grease the top, cover it and stand in a warm 

plaee for three hours. Pivide into tour loaves, 
and put each into a greased pan. ("over and 
Stand aside for one hour, ami hake in a moder- 
ately quick oven for forty five minutes. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Bread sticks may be made from this dough, 
Roll a portion o\ the dough out in the hands, 
making it the size of a lead pencil. Cut it the 
length of the bread stick pan. and put eaeh one 



48 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

in a compartment. Let them raise 30 minutes, 
brush them with water, and bake in a quick oven 
fifteen minutes. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

Scald one cup of milk, add one cup of water, 
and when lukewarm add one yeast cake dis- 
solved in four tablespoons of lukewarm water, 
and about one cup of flour. Set aside until light. 
Then add enough Swans Down Graham flour to 
make a batter that is difficult to stir, but not 
sufficiently stiff to knead. Add one tablespoon 
of molasses, one teaspoon of salt, and pour into 
a greased pan ; let it stand one hour and bake 
in a moderate oven 45 minutes. 



WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Scald one pint of milk, add one pint of water. 
When lukewarm add one yeast cake dissolved in 
four tablespoons of lukewarm water, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one tablespoon of sugar, two table- 
spoons of shortening, butter and lard mixed. Beat 
until very light and spongy. Set away to rise 
until double in bulk, then add enough whole 
wheat flour to make a stiff dough, and knead. 
Raise the second time, mould into leaves, and 
turn into pans. When raised to desired light- 
ness, bake forty-five minutes. 



Mrs. Divelle's Cook Book 49 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One cup scalded milk, one cup water, one 
yeast cake, two level tablespoons sugar, one tea- 
spoon salt, one-fourth cup lard, one-fourth cup 
butter. Make a sponge of the milk when cooled, 
yeast cake dissolved in a little lukewarm water 
and enough flour to make a batter (about two 
cups). Beat thoroughly, cover, and let rise until 
light. Then add shortening (melted), sugar, salt 
and enough flour to knead. Let rise again, toss 
on a floured board, and roll out to one-third 
inch thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter first 
dipped in flour. Dip the handle of a case knife 
first dipped in flour, and with it make a crease 
through the middle of each piece. Brush over 
one-half of each piece with melted butter, fold, 
and press edges together. Place in a greased 
pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise, and bake in 
hot oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 

SALAD ROLLS. 

Use same ingredients as for Parker House 
Rolls, allowing one-fourth cup butter. Shape in 
small biscuits, place in rows on a floured board, 
cover with cloth and pan, and let rise until light 
and well puffed. Flour handle of wooden spoon 
and make a deep crease in middle of each bis- 
cuit, take up, and press edges together. Place 
closely in buttered pan, cover, let rise, and bake 



50 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

twelve to fifteen minutes in hot oven. From 
this same mixture crescents, braids, twists, 
bow-knots, and other fancy shapes may be 
made. 

STICKS. 

One cup scalded milk, one-fourth cup butter, 
one and one-half tablespoons sugar, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one yeast cake dissolved in one- 
fourth cup lukewarm water, white of one egg", 
three and three-fourths cups flour. Add butter, 
sugar, and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast cake, white of egg, well beaten, and 
flour. Knead, let rise, shape, let rise again, and 
start baking in a hot oven, reducing heat, that 
sticks may be crisp and dry. To shape sticks, 
first shape as small biscuits, roll on board (where 
there is no flour) with hands until eight inches 
in length, keeping of uniform size and rounded 
ends, which may be done by bringing fingers 
close to, but not over, ends of sticks. 

SWEDISH ROLLS. 

Use recipe for Parker House Rolls. Roll to 
one-fourth inch thickness, spread with butter, 
and sprinkle with two tablespoons sugar mixed 
with one-third teaspoon cinnamon, one-third cup 
stoned raisins finely chopped, and two table- 
spoons chopped citron; roll up like jelly ro'l, 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 51 

and cut in three-fourth inch pieces. Place 
pieces in pan close together, flat side down. 
When rolls are taken from oven, brush over 
with white of egg slightly beaten, diluted with 
one-half tablespoon water ; return to oven to 
dry egg, and thus glaze top. 

SWEET FRENCH ROLLS. 

One cup milk, one yeast cake dissolved in 
one-fourth cup lukewarm water, flour, one- 
fourth cup sugar, one teaspoon salt, one egg, 
yolk of one egg, one-eighth teaspoon mace, one- 
fourth cup melted butter. Scald milk ; when 
lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and one and 
one-half cups flour; beat well, cover, and let rise 
until light. Add sugar, salt, eggs well beaten, 
mace, and butter, and enough more flour to 
knead ; knead, let rise again, shape, and bake as 
Salad Rolls. This same mixture may be rolled 
in a long strip to one-fourth inch thickness, 
spread with butter, rolled up like a jelly roll, 
and cut in one inch pieces. Place pieces in pan 
close together, flat side down. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

One cup scalded milk, one-fourth cup sugar, 
two tablespoons butter, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one-half yeast cake dissolved in one-fourth cup 
lukewarm water, three-fourths teaspoon cinna- 



52 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

men, three cups flour, one egg", one-fourth cup 
raisins stoned and quartered, or one-fourth cup 
currants. Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; 
when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake, cin- 
namon, flour, and egg well beaten ; when thor- 
oughly mixed, add raisins, cover, and let rise 
over night. In morning, shape in forms oi large 
biscuits, place in pan one inch apart, let rise, 
brush over with beaten egg. and bake twenty 
minutes; cool, and with ornamental frosting 
make a cross on top oi each bun. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Scald one cup milk, ad, J. two level tablespoi 
of butter, one-half teaspoon of salt, one round 
tablespoon of sugar, two eggs, one-half cake of 
compressed yeast, and enough flour to make a 
soft dough. Let rise until three times its bulk. 
Roll out in a thin sheet, and spread freely with 
butter, sprinkle with sugar, spices, raisins or 
currants and shredded citron. Roll up and cut 
oft as for jelly rolls, put in baking pan and All 
in around the rolls with sugar, butter and spices. 
Let rise until very light and bake in a moder- 
ately quick oven. Guard against making the 
dough too stiff, as it should be soft. 

GERMAN NUT CAKE. 

Scald one pint of milk, add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter: when lukewarm add one veast cake 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 53 

and half a teaspoonful of salt. When yeast is 
thoroughly mixed add two and one-half or three 
cups of flour, until you have a soft batter; beat 
well and let stand two and one-half hours in a 
warm place. Then add two eggs beaten with- 
out separating, half a cup of sugar; turn in shal- 
low pan, let stand for half an hour, then dust 
top with ground nuts, sugar and cinnamon. Bake 
in a moderate oven one-half hour. 

USES FOR STALE BREAD. 

All pieces of bread should be saved and util- 
ized. Large pieces are best for toast. Soft stale 
bread, from which crust is removed, when crum- 
bled, is called stale bread crumbs, or raspings, 
and is used for puddings, griddle-cakes, omelets, 
scalloped dishes, and dipping food to be fried. 
Remnants of bread, from which crusts have not 
been removed, are dried in oven, rolled, and 
sifted. These are called dry bread crumbs, and 
are useful for crumbing croquettes, cutlets, fish, 
meat, etc. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Sift two cups of flour with one-half teaspoon 
of salt, and four level teaspoons of baking- 
powder. With a knife or the tips of the fingers 
work in four level tablespoons of shortening, then 
add about 1 cup of milk or milk and water, and 



54 Mrs. Dwells' s Cook Book- 

mix with knife to a dough. Toss onto a board 
lightly dredged with flour; knead gently, and 
roll into a sheet, cut into rounds and bake about 
twelve minutes. 

ONE EGG MUFFINS. 

Sift two cups of flour with two teaspoons of 
baking-powder and one teaspoon of salt ; add 
one rounding tablespoon of sugar. Beat the egg 
until light, add the milk, and mix with the dry 
ingredients. Melt two level tablespoons of but- 
ter and two level tablespoons of lard. Pour in 
the batter and bake in hissing hot greased muffin 
pans. 

WAFFLES. 

Sift two cups of flour and one-half cup of 
corn meal with one teaspoon of salt, and three 
teaspoons of baking-powder. Add two eggs well 
beaten, two tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of lard, melted, and enough milk to make 
a batter as thick as heavy cream. Bake in hot 
well greased waffle irons. 



S' 



QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

Three tablespoons of butter, six tablespoons 
of sugar, two eggs, three-fourths cup of milk, 
two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking-powder, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt. Cream butter and 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 55 

sugar, add eggs beaten light, then the milk and 
last the flour, baking-powder and salt sifted to- 
gether. Pour in two large layer cake pans, and 
sprinkle over the top, three-fourths cup bread 
crumbs, three level tablespoons of butter, two 
tablespoons of sugar and one teaspoon of cinna- 
mon. Bake in rather quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Two cups flour, four level teaspoons baking- 
powder, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of sugar, three-fourths cup sweet milk, 
two tablespoons melted butter. Mix thoroughly 
and pour into a well buttered long biscuit pan, 
and bake about 20 minutes. Mark with a knife 
and break, and serve with butter while hot. 



TOASTED CORN FLAKE WAFFLES. 

Mix one and one-half cups flour with three 
tablespoons of white corn meal, two cups of 
Kellogg's Toasted Corn Flakes rolled or put 
through a food chopper and three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one scant teaspoon of salt, one 
tablespoon of sugar, two eggs well beaten. Use 
enough milk to make a batter as thick as heavy 
cream, then add four level tablespoons of short- 
ening, half butter and half lard. Bake in waffle 
irons that are hot and well greased. 



56 Mr*, Dwtft 'a Cook Book 

CRULLERS. 

rhrec s cup sugar, two eggs, two Level 

tablespoons of butter, one-eighth teaspoon nut- 
meg, one cup milk, three teaspoons baking-pow 
der, flour enough to roll. Cream the butter, 
ggs \ v salt and nutmeg. > ; .u 
baking-powder with two cups oi the flour, and 

ating with milk; then add 
sufficient oil. Handle dough as little 

as possible. Roll one half inch thick, cut and try 
in deep hot fat, 

GOOD GINGER BREAD. 

For an "egglesi g gerbread, mix in 
bowl one ' of molasses, halt a cupful 

. one teaspoonful of salt. Dis- 
solve soda in a teaspoonful 
of cold wat< his and two tablespoons 
of melted bu i the mixture. Now stir in 
two cupfuls of flour. Pour the mixti i 
int< tin and bake in a mod- 

wenty minutes 

CORN BATTER BREAD. 

Sv i eggs j oiks a little, add 

one cup of m Ik, one tablespoonful of melted 

one CU] C eal . half cur of ''our in 

which you ha> < I w o he; ig teas] 



Mrs, Dwelled Cook Book 57 

baking powder; beat whites very light, add 
them to the batter. Turn into a greased pan 
and hake in a moderately hot oven thirty min- 
utes. 

MUSH BREAD. 

Scald two cups of milk and add one scant 
CUp of white corn meal, half teaspoonful of salt; 
cook until smooth. Take from fire and add the 
yolks of four eggs beaten until thick; then the 
whites of four eggs beaten until very stiff. Turn 
into an ungreased pan and bake in a moderately 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Beat four eggs without separating until well 
mixed, add half pint of milk and pour gradually 
into a half pint of pastry flour; mix well and 
strain through a sieve back into the fust bowl. 
Have iron gem pans well heated, fill half full 
with this thin batter and bake in a moderately 
quick oven for forty minutes. These may he 
used as breakfast muffins or served with a sauce 
as a dessert. 

MILK BISCUIT. 

Rub two level tablespoonfuls of butler into 
one quart of bread flour; add two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, a level teaspoon- 



58 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

ful of salt and mix thoroughly. Add slowly 
sufficient milk to make a dough that is moist 
but not wet (about a cup and a quarter). Turn 
the dough onto a floured board, knead very 
quickly, roll out into a sheet a half inch thick ; 
cut into small biscuits, stand them in a pan 
where they will not touch each other; brush the 
tops with milk and bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. 

POP-OVERS. 

One cup flour, one-fourth teaspoon salt, seven- 
eighths cup milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon 
melted butter. 

Mix salt and flour; add milk gradually, in 
order to obtain a smooth batter. Add egg. beat- 
en until light, and butter; beat two minutes, — 
using Dover egg-beater, — turn into hissing hot 
buttered iron gem pans, and bake thirty to 
thirty-five minutes in a hot oven. They may 
be baked in buttered earthen cups, when the 
bottom will have a glazed appearance. Small, 
round iron gem pans are best for Pop-overs. 



QUICK BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups graham flour, one cup sour milk, 
one-half cup molasses, two tablespoons sugar, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoon soda in two table- 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 59 

spoons warm water, three-fourths cup rasins 
chopped and floured; bake forty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Excellent. 

TOASTED CORN FLAKE GEMS. 

Two eggs, one-half cupful sugar, one-fourth 
cup of butter, two-thirds cup of milk, two round- 
ing teaspoons of baking-powder, one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, one and one-half cups of flour, 
three cups of Kellogg's Toasted Corn Flakes, 
one-half cup of raisins or currants. Bake in hot 
greased gem pans. 



60 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 61 



MACARONI, RICE, SPAGHETTI. 



SCALLOPED RICE. 

Steam one cup rice in three cups boiling water, 
one teaspoon salt. Make a cream sauce by melt- 
ing four level tablespoons of butter, add four 
level tablespoons of flour, one cup milk and one 
cup of cream. (Can use all milk), scant teaspoon 
of salt, one-eighth teaspoon of paprica. In a 
baking dish put a layer of rice, sprinkle wit> 
grated cheese, layer of the sauce, then another 
of rice, cheese and sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are nicely 
browned. 

CREAMED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Break one-fourth pound of macaroni into 
pieces about one inch long, drop into two quarts 
of boiling salted water and boil about twenty 
minutes. While it is boiling grate one-fourth 
pound of cheese. Place half a pint of milk in a 
double boiler, rub together one rounding table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour, add to the 
milk when boiling, and stir about two minutes. 
Add half a teaspoonful of salt and a speck of 



62 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

cayenne. When the macaroni is tender drain 
it and add to the cream sauce, add the grated 
cheese and stir until dissolved. 

DEVILED MACARONI. 

Boil six ounces of macaroni twenty-five min- 
utes, drain and chop fine. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and two of flour in a saucepan, 
mix well, and add a pint of milk. Stir until 
boiling-, then add, pressing through a sieve, the 
hard-boiled yolks of three eggs and the whites 
of the eggs pressed through a vegetable press ; 
add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a small 
saltspoonful of red pepper, one chopped sweet 
Spanish pepper, a grating of nutmeg, a teaspoon- 
ful of grated onion, mixing w r ell with the macar- 
oni. Put this into individual shells or cases, 
cover the top with bread crumbs, moistened with 
melted butter, and brown in a quick oven. 
Serve with tomato catsup or chili sauce. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Use one-half package macaroni. Put three 
quarts of boiling water in a sauce-pan, and add 
the macaroni broken into short pieces. Boil 
twenty minutes, drain well, cover with cold 
water, for ten minutes or longer. Drain again ; 
place in baking dish with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, melted, one cup of milk, two-thirds cup 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 63 

of grated cheese, one-half teaspoonful of salt 
and a little paprica ; sprinkle with cheese and 
bake one-half hour. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Four tablespoons butter, two level tablespoons 
Entire Wheat Flour, one-fourth teaspoon mus- 
tard, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-half tea- 
spoon paprica, three-fourths cup milk; one Shred- 
ded Wheat Biscuit rolled and sifted or one-fourth 
cup granulated wheat shred, one-half cup grated 
cheese (Old English or Worchester County), 
three eggs. M^elt the butter, in it blend the 
Hour, sifted together with the mustard, salt, 
and paprica. Add the milk a little at a time, and 
when it begins to thicken, add the Shredded 
Wheat Biscuit crumbs, and the grated cheese. 
Remove from the fire, and add the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten until lemon colored. Cool the mix- 
ture, and cut and fold in the whites of the eggs, 
beaten dry. Bake twenty-five minutes in a but- 
tered dish, or individual moulds. 

WELSH RABBIT ON TRISCUIT. 

One cup hot milk, one cup Imperial Cheese 
pressed through potato ricer, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon mustard, one- 
fourth teaspoon paprica, one level teaspoon 
flour, one egg, well beaten, one teaspoon 



64 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book- 

butter. Put the milk to heat; mix cheese, flour, 
mustard, one-fourth teaspoon paprica, one level 
teaspoon flour, one egg well beaten, one teaspoon 
egg, mustard, salt and paprica in saucepan, and 
when the milk is scalding hot, add it a little at 
a time to the cheese mixture. Stir, cooking 
slowly, until smooth as cream. Take from the 
fire and add butter, stir in well and pour over 
Triscuit, which should be heated in the oven. 



GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH SPA- 
GHETTI. 

Cut the stem end from green peppers and re- 
move the seeds, drop the pods for five minutes 
in boiling water, drain and fill with boiled spa- 
ghetti mixed with a little finely chopped onion 
and tomato sauce. Bake without browning and 
serve hot with tomato sauce. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Break a half package of Minnesota Spaghetti 
into boiling water and boil for thirty minutes, 
or until tender, strain and cover with cold water 
while you prepare your tomato sauce. When 
sauce is ready, throw the spaghetti into a frying 
pan with brown butter for a few minutes ; pour 
tomato sauce on spaghetti and serve hot. Grated 
cheese may be sprinkled on it if desired. 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 65 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put one pint of tomatoes, canned or fresh, 
into a saucepan; add a small slice of onion, four 
whole cloves, a small bay leaf, and a sprig of 
parsley or celery root. Simmer gently for fif- 
teen minutes and then strain. For one cup of 
this liquor take two level tablespoonfuls flour 
and same of butter. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan ; add the flour and stir until smooth and bub- 
bling hot, then turn in the tomato juice. Stir 
and cook until it comes to boiling point. Season 
with salt and pepper and a pinch of cayenne. 

MACARONI HUNGARIAN. 

Boil the macaroni in water for twenty min- 
utes ; strain; throw it into cold water; put it 
back in the saucepan with a very little stock ; 
simmer gently for ten minutes or until it has 
absorbed the stock ; then add a tablespoonful of 
chopped onion ; shake the macaroni until the 
onion is cooked. Turn it onto a heated platter, 
put over bits of cream cheese or cottage cheese ; 
pour over browned butter and serve. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

Two level tablespoons butter, two level table- 
spoons flour, one-half cup milk, one cup macar- 
oni (measured after being bailed and drained), 



SQ Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pap- 
rica, four tablespoons grated cheese. Melt the 
butter, add flour, seasoning-, then milk, stirring 
constantly till thick and smooth ; last add cheese 
and the macaroni, cut in half inch pieces, set 
on ice till perfectly cold. Form into halls, dip 
in crumbs, then in egg beaten with one table- 
spoon cold water, then in crumbs again, and fry 
in hot fat till golden brown. Drain on brown 
paper and serve on a folded napkin and garnish 
with parsley. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 67 



68 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 69 



POTATOES. 



ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes and cut them into thin 
slices; dispose these in a buttered baking-dish 
in layers ; sprinkle the layers with salt, pepper, 
onion juice and fine-chopped parsley, dredge 
with flour and add a few bits of butter. Pour 
hot milk over the potatoes to just cover them. 
Bake in a moderate oven about an hour and 
a half, adding more milk if needed. The po- 
tatoes may be boiled five minutes, drained, and 
rinsed in cold water before being set to cook, or 
cold boiled potatoes may be used. In both cases 
the time of baking will be shortened. Grated 
cheese may be added to each layer. 



FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut the potatoes into any desirable shape. 
When they are perfectly dry put them into mod- 
erately hot fat ; let them cook slowly ; take them 
out and cool them. At serving time plunge 
them into very hot fat until brown and crisp. 



70 Mrs. DweUe'a Cook Book 

GERMAN FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into rounds or blocks ; 
fry in hot fat: dust with parsley and a little salt. 

POTATOES O'BRIEN. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather tine ; season 
with salt, pepper and parsley ; add one green 
pepper chopped tine. To four potatoes add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of fat in a shallow pan. put the potatoes in 
and press them down ; let them cook until nicely 
browned ; fold them over and turn them out on 
a heated platter. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Mix a pint of cold boiled potatoes that have 
been chopped fine with half a pint of cream 

sauce. Turn them into a shallow baking dish ; 
dust thickly with parmasan and brown. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut the potatoes into halves, then into quar- 
ters, then into eighths. Plunge them into hot 
fat and keep them in this fat until they are soft 
Then throw them out to cool. When ready to 
serve plunge them for a minute in hot fat until 
brown. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 71 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes of half an 
inch. Put a rounding tablespoon of butter and 
one of chopped onions in a saucepan ; shake un- 
til the onion is browned ; then put in the pota- 
toes and shake constantly until they are thor- 
oughly hot and but slightly brown. Turn on a 
heated dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley and 
serve. 



72 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 73 



VEGETABLES. 



EGG PLANT WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Pare the egg plant, cut it in slices half an 
inch thick, then cut the slices into quarters ; dust 
with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg, roll in 
bread crumbs and plunge them a few at a time 
in hot fat. Fry until crisp and a golden brown. 
Drain carefully on brown paper. Dish on a hot 
platter. Serve with either tomato catsup or cold 
tomato sauce. 



COLD SLAW. 

Moisten two level tablespoons of cornstarch 
in a little cold milk; add a half cup of hot milk, 
and stir until thick ; add the yolks of two eggs ; 
cook a moment ; take from the fire ; add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of pepper, one teaspoonful of sugar, and two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. When this is cool 
mix it with a quart of shaved cabbage that has 
been soaked an hour in cold water. 



74 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Chop the cold cabbage rather tine ; soak in 
cold water one hour; throw into boiling salted 
water, boil rapidly in an uncovered vessel for 
twenty minutes. Strain ; add a tablespoonful of 
butter, a half cup of milk or cream, and let it 
simmer gently for ten minutes. 

HUNGARIAN CABBAGE. 

Cut red cabbage into long thin strips ; throw 
it into boiling water ; boil rapidly twenty min- 
utes. Strain. Put four level tablespoonfuls of 
butter and a chopped onion into a saucepan and 
the cabbage ; four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt 
and paprica ; cover and stew on the back of 
the stove for twenty minutes. 

TURNIPS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Cut the turnips into blocks, cook them twen- 
ty minutes in unsalted water; strain; dish and 
cover with cream sauce made by blending two 
level tablespoonfuls of butter with two level 
tablespoonfuls of flour, salt, pepper and one cup 
of milk. 

CARROTS WITH SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Select the large winter carrots ; cut them into 
slices crosswise about one-half inch thick ; boil 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 75 

them carefully in unsalted water until tender. 
Put two level tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
of flour in a .saucepan; mix; add half pint of 
boiling water; stir until boiling; take from the 
fire ; add the yolks of two eggs ; cook again for 
a minute until jelly-like, being careful not to 
curdle, put in another tablespoonful of butter, 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper. Ar- 
range carrots in a vegetable dish ; pour over the 
Sauce Hollandaise and send to the table. 

TOMATO CREOLE. 

Cut in thirds four fine, large tomatoes. Place 
in a buttered baking pan and sprinkle over them 
two green peppers finely chopped, one teaspoon 
chopped onion, two tablespoons butter in small 
pieces and a liberal seasoning of salt and paprica^ 
Lift the tomato slices onto toasted halves of 
Shredded Wheat Biscuit. Then add to the 
liquor left in the pan two tablespoons of butter, 
two tablespoons of flour. Stir well until brown, 
then add one cup of cream. Let it boil up and 
pour over tomatoes and toast. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Remove contents from one can tomatoes and 
drain tomatoes from some of their liquor. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, a few drops of onion juice, 



76 Mrs, Dwelled . ok 

and sugar if preferred sweet. Cover the bot- 
tom of a buttered baking-dish with buttered 
cracker crumbs, cover with tomatoes, and sprin- 
kle top thickly with buttered crumbs. Bake in 
a hot oven until crumbs are brown. 



CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

Remove leaves, cut off stock, an - ak thirty 

minutes (head down) in cold water to cover. 
Cook (head up) twenty minutes or until soft in 
boiling salted water, drain separate flowerets, 
and reheat in white sauce made as follows : four 
level tablespoons butter, four level tablespoons 
flour, one teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
paprica, one cup water from cauliflower and one 
cup milk. 

CREAMED SPINACH. 

One-half peck spinach, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon white pepper, one-half 
cup heavy cream, two level tablespoons butter; 
salt and pepper. Pick over and wash the spin- 
ach till entirely free from grit ; put in a kettle 
without water and set on stove, where it will 
cook slowly till the juices are drawn out. then 
boil till tender. Drain and chop line. Return 
to kettle, and butter, salt, pepper and cream : 
heat, but do not cook. 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 77 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Put onions in cold water and remove skins 
while under water. Drain, put in a saucepan, 
and cover with boiling salted water ; boil five 
minutes, drain, and again cover with boiling sal- 
ted water. Cook one hour or until soft, but not 
broken. Drain, add a small quantity of milk, 
cook five minutes, and season with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

STUFFED ONIONS. 

Remove skins from onions, and parboil ten 
minutes in boiling salted water to cover. Turn 
upside down to cool, and remove part of centers. 
Fill cavities with equal parts of finely chopped 
cooked chicken, stale soft bread crumbs, and 
finely chopped onion which was removed, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and moistened with 
cream or melted butter. Place in buttered shal- 
low baking-pan, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, 
and bake in a moderate oven until onions are soft. 

STUFFED EGG-PLANT. 

Cook egg-plant fifteen minutes in boiling salted 
water to cover. Cut a slice from top, and with 
a spoon remove pulp, taking care not 
to work too closely to skin. Chop pulp, 
and add one cup soft stale bread crumbs. 
Melt two tablespoons butter, add one-half table- 



78 Mrs. Divrile'8 Cook Book 

spoon finely chopped onion, and cook five min- 
utes; or try out three slices of bacon, using ba- 
con tat in place of butter. Add to chopped pulp 
and bread, season with salt and pepper, and if 
necessary moisten with a little stock or water; 
Cook five minutes, cool slightly, and add one 
beaten egg. Refill egg-plant, cover with buttered 
bread crumbs, and bake twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 

One can mushrooms, two tablespoons butter, 
two teaspoons, lemon juice, one teaspoon scraped 
onion, one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth tea- 
spoon white pepper, two tablespoons, flour, one 
cup milk, one-half cup heavy cream. Rinse the 
mushrooms with cold water, dry in a towel, and 
cut into halves. Melt the butter in the blazer, 
add onion, salt, and pepper, and when it is hot, 
add the mushrooms. Cook slowly three minutes, 
stirring occasionally, then add the lemon juice; 
mix well, add the flour. Cook one minute, and 
add the milk and cream, stirring until thick and 
smooth. 

CORN PUDDING. 

To be served as a yegetable. Mix with one 
pint grated corn (score down the center of each 
row with a sharp knife, then press out the pulp 



Mrs. Dwell e' 8 Cook Bonk 79 

with the back of the blade) one cupful of milk, 
one-fourth cupful of melted butter, four well 
beaten eggs, two-thirds teaspoonful of salt, pep- 
per and four tables poontu Is of flour, turn into a 
well greased pudding dish and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until firm in the center. 



CABBAGE AND CELERY. 
(A Southern Dish.) 

Shred cabbage very fine and cut celery into 
small dice; mix well together and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Put one gill of vinegar into 
a saucepan and stir in a well-beaten tgg. Stir 
over a hot fire until as thick as cream. Add a 
saltspoonful of mixed mustard, a tablespoonful 
of olive oil and a teaspoonful of sugar (or sugar 
may be omitted if desired). Beat well together 
and when cold pour on the cabbage and celery. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

If the rich Southern sweet potatoes are used 
bake them until tender ; the drier Northern va- 
riety boil and skin. Cut in thin slices. Put in 
layers in a baking dish, covering each layer with 
a generous sprinkling of granulated sugar and 
melted butter. Over the top put some extra bits 
of butter and bake in a moderate oven until clear 
and rich. Keep covered until half done. 



80 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

CREAMED SALSIFY. 

Slice or cut into small pieces some freshly 
cooked salsify. Before it becomes chilled add 
sufficient milk to cover, season generously with 
salt and pepper, stir in very fine cracker dust, 
allowing about one and one-half tablespoons to 
a cup (^ milk, and in the same proportion one 
tablespoon of butter. Heat this, stirring occa- 
sionally, until thoroughly cooked, adding more 
cracker dust if needed. The exact proportion 
of this thickening must be separately ascertained 
for each variety, .is cracker dusts vary greatly 
in their thickening properties. To bring out the 
flavor of salsify, cracker dust is far preferable 
to flour as thickening. This dish may or may 
not be served on toast, with a garnish of par- 
sley. 

MOCKED FRIED OYSTERS. 

Prepare the salsify as in the foregoing recipe 
or use a leftover from it. Mash, with a fork, 
to an even consistency, blending in enough of 
the cream sauce to soften the mass, but not so 
much but that it can be molded. Shape as oys- 
ters, bread by rolling in bread or cracker crumbs ; 
then, dipping in egg slightly beaten with a lit- 
tle milk or water, and a shake each of pepper 
and salt, cover again with crumbs and saute or 
fry in deep fat. Garnish with parsley or water- 
cress. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 81 



82 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Booh 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 8 



Q 



SALADS. 



Salads should be served all the year round. 
Although the salad-plants— lettuce, celery, cress 
and cucumber— contain little nourishment, they 
are useful in furnishing a pleasing variety in 
diet, and for supplying a large proportion of 
salts which are valuable for purifying the blood. 
A modern authority says: "Salads refresh with- 
out exciting and make people younger." This 
may not be strictly true, but certain it is that 
"salad-plants are better tonics and blood-puri- 
fiers than drugs." 

Salads may be made from a variety of ma- 
terials, from the ordinary salad-plants, and al- 
most every kind of vegetables, from fish of 
every kind, from meats of various kinds, fruits 
and nuts, eggs and cheese. 

In serving salad at a meal, its digestibility 
depends largely on its accompaniments. If it 
is composed of meat, fish, eggs and cheese, it 
should form the principal of the meal, especially 
if made with a mayonnaise, which is very nour- 
ishing. If made with only vegetables, especially 
those containing little nutriment, it should be 
served along with more nourishing foods. 



84 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

In making salads have everything very cold. 
Use only fresh, crisp vegetables. Mix the salad 
immediately before serving. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One-half teaspoon of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoon of pepper, one tablespoon of lemon juice, 
four tablespoons of vinegar, one tablespoon of 
Maltese Cross Olive Oil. Mix ingredients and 
stir until well blended. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Beat yolk of one egg, add one-fourth teaspoon 
of salt, one-fourth teaspoon of mustard, one 
teaspoon of sugar, one-eighth teaspoon of pap- 
rica. Mix thoroughly and add one tablespoon 
of lemon juice and one tablespoon of vinegar. 
Beat vigorously with an egg beater, then add 
a teaspoonful of olive oil and continue the 
beating; add oil a teaspoonful at a time until 
six teaspoonfuls have been added, beating all 
the time; then add the oil by the tablespoonful 
until a cup of oil has been used. Cover and set 
in a cool place. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

One level teaspoon salt, one level teaspoon 
mustard, one level teaspoon powered sugar, 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 85 

one-fourth teaspoon paprica, two tablespoons 
lemon juice, two tablespoons vinegar, two eggs, 
one and one-half cups olive oil. Thoroughly 
chill the oil, bowl and spoon to be used, before 
beginning the dressing. Separate the eggs. 
Mix the dry ingredients in the bowl, add the 
yolks of the eggs, mix well, then add the oil a 
drop at a time in the beginning. Stir constantly, 
and as the mixture thickens thin it with the 
lemon juice and vinegar used alternately. They 
add more oil till all is used. If the weather is 
very warm it is well to set the bowl in a pan 
of ice while mixing the dressing. If a white 
dressing is desired, use all lemon juice, stirring 
very thoroughly. After half of the oil Has been 
used, it may be added in larger quantities. If 
the mixture should curdle it is because the oil 
has been added too rapidly and may be reme- 
died by taking another egg yolk and adding 
the curdling mixture to it slowly. 



CREAM DRESSING. 

One teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one 
tablespoon sugar, one egg slightly beaten, two 
and one-half tablespoons melted butter, three- 
fourths cup cream, one-fourth hot vinegar. Mix 
ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very 
slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly until mixture thickens, strain and cool. 



86 Mrs. DwdWs Cook Book 

BOILED DRESSING. 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add half 
a teaspoonful each of salt, mustard, and paprika, 
add three-fourths cupful of hot milk and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Add gradually the yolks of 
two eggs slightly beaten and cook until thick in 
a double boiler, stirring constantly. Add grad- 
ually three tablespoonfuls of hot vinegar, strain, 
and cool. 

GERMAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Mix half a cupful of sour cream with a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a dash of pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and mustard, two tablespoonfuls 
of bacon fat, and half a chopped onion cooked 
in half a cupful of boiling vinegar. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

Add minced parsley, capers, olives, and 
pickles to French Dressing. Add grated onion 
or garlic if desired. Minced chives and the 
powdered yolks of hard-boiled eggs may be 
added. 

CUCUMBER JELLY. 

Peel and trim four or five cucumbers, cut into 
thin slices and cook until soft in a quart of 
salted water with a slice of onion and a little 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 87 

pepper. Add half a package of soaked gelatine, 
one bay leaf, two tablespoons of vinegar, stir 
until dissolved, strain and mould, in small 
moulds or in a border mould. Fish or fresh 
cucumbers can be moulded in it. It must be 
ice-cold when served. 

TOMATO ASPIC BORDER. 

Stew a can of tomatoes with a tablespoonful 
of chopped onion, a tablespoonful of celery salt, 
a bit of bay-leaf, and half a teaspoonful of mixed 
spice. Rub through a sieve and add enough 
boiling water to make three cupfuls. Add half 
a package of soaked and dissolved gelatine and 
cool in a border mould. Fill the center with any 
preferred salad. The can of tomatoes may be 
stewed with a little celery, a tablespoonful each 
of minced parsley and chives, two tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice, two cardamon seeds, and salt 
and paprica to taste. 

ROQUEFORT SALAD DRESSING. 

Rub an onion over the bottom of a bowl. 
Stir together one-half tablespoonful each dry 
mustard and salt, and a saltspoonful each of 
pepper and sugar. Add six tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil and one of vinegar and mix well. Add 
slowly two heaping tablespoonfuls of Roquefort 
cheese and rub until the dressing is smooth. 
Use on lettuce, Romaine or endive salad. 



88 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Cut asparagus in inch lengths, (let cool in 
the liquid in which it has been cooked). To 
each two cups of the asparagus add two hard 
boiled eggs cut in slices ; one cupful of celery 
cut in dice, one-half cup of English walnut ker- 
nels broken in small pieces. Serve in nests made 
of fresh water cress, and put a generous spoon- 
ful of Mayonnaise on top of each serving. 

SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads 20 minutes ; 
drain, cool, and cut in one-half inch cubes. Mix 
with an equal quantity of cucumber cut in dice. 
Season with salt and pepper, and moisten with 
Cream Dressing made by beating one-half cup 
thick cream until stiff, then add one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, few grains of pepper, three 
tablespoons of vinegar, beating while adding the 
inegar. Serve in Cucumber Jelly border. 



v 



PEAR SALAD. 

Place a half pear on crisp hearts of lettuce 
with a fringe of water cress. Fill the cavity in 
the center with grape fruit pulp, and Malaga 
grapes. Pour over all a dressing made in the 
proportion of one tablespoon of olive oil, one 
tablespoon of pure white honey, one-eighth tea- 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 89 

spoon of salt, dash of paprica, white of one tgg 
and two tablespoons of lemon juice, the whole 
whipped creamy. 



SPRING SALAD. 

On a mass of shredded roumaine, water cress 
dandelion, grate raw carrot. Mix with French 
Dressing, and serve with slices of hard boiled 
eggs. 

HUNGARIAN SALAD. 

Line small moulds with red Spanish peppers 
and fill with blocks of cold salt tongue. Make 
aspic by soaking two level tablespoonfuls of gel- 
atine in half a cup of cold water for ten minutes, 
then pour over it one pint of stock; add one tea- 
spoonful of salt and juice of half a lemon ; strain 
and fill the moulds. When firm turn out and 
garnish with pretty pieces of lettuce and small 
pieces of celery between. Serve mayonnaise in 
a boat. 

JULIET SALAD. 

Cut pineapple into dice and mix with mayon- 
naise. Serve in lettuce cups and sprinkle cropped 
nuts over pineapple. 



90 Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 

LYMAN SALAD. 

Select long green peppers, cut in halves length- 
wise, remove the seeds and fill with grape fruit 
pulp, celery and apple finely cut, and pecan nut 
meats broken in pieces, using half as much each 
of celery and apple as of grape fruit, and allow- 
ing three nut meats to each case. Arrange on 
lettuce. Serve with mayonnaise. 

EGG, TOMATO AND GREEN PEPPER 
SALAD. 

Cut two hard boiled eggs into lengthwise quar- 
ters and three peeled tomatoes into eight sec- 
tions, each. Cut also a green pepper into thin 
shreds. Rub a salad bowl with the cut side of 
half a close of garlic, and put into it the heart 
of two heads of lettuce. Arrange the tomatoes 
and eggs on the lettuce leaves. Pour over the 
whole a generous half-cup of well-mixed French 
dressing. Sprinkle with the green pepper, and 
serve at once. Mayonnaise may be served in a 
bowl apart, if desired. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Mix equal quantities of apple and celery cut 
in dice. Add one cup walnut meats broken in 
small pieces. Moisten with Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing. An attractive way of serving this salad is 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 91 

to remove tops from red or green apples, scoop 
out inside pulp, leaving just enough adhering to 
skin to keep apples in shape. Refill shells, thus 
made, with the salad, and serve on lettuce leaves. 



CHICKEN IN ASPIC. 

One quart stock, one-half package gelatine, 
whites and shells two eggs, one tablespoon tar- 
ragon vinegar, one tablespoon lemon juice, one 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, two 
bay leaves, parsley, one slice onion, one slice car- 
rot. Add onion, carrot, bay leaves and parsley 
to stock and allow to simmer 15 minutes, then 
add salt, pepper, vinegar, lemon juice, and gela- 
tine which has been soaked in one-fourth cup cold 
water. Cool jelly, and when cold add whites 
and shells slightly beaten ; return to fire and beat 
rapidly until it boils. Boil three minutes (with- 
out beating), and set aside for a few minutes. 
Strain through a double cheese cloth placed over 
a strainer or through a jelly bag. 

Pour one-fourth into a mould and let get cold 
Garnish with hard cooked egg and parsley and 
set with a little liquid jelly. Add chicken, which 
should be cut into one-fourth cubes, to remain- 
ing jelly, and fill the mould. < 

When firm dip a moment in warm water. Turn 
out and garnish with quarters of lemon and 
parsley. 



92 Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two and one-half cups of cold chicken cut into 
dice, with one cup celery cut into small pieces, 
and French Dressing. Thoroughly chill, pile on 
crisp lettuce leaves and serve with Mayonnaise. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cook four medium sized potatoes and cut them 
into dice, season with salt and pepper, add one 
small onion, either chopped or sliced, and two 
hard cooked eggs cut into small pieces. Add 
Salad Dressing made by stirring one level tea- 
spoon of flour in three tablespoons of melted 
butter, add one cup of milk and cook but do not 
boil. Add three whole eggs or the yolks of three 
well beaten, one-half cup of vinegar. Cook in a 
double-boiler, stirring constantly so as to avoid 
lumps. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Boil the potatoes and peel while hot, slicing 
an eighth of an inch thick into a deep bowl. To 
every three medium-sized potatoes allow two 
tablespoonfuls of hot bacon or ham fat, and three 
of hot vinegar, not too strong ; mix this carefully 
through the potatoes, then cover with a plate un- 
til the mixture is cold. An hour before serving 
mix through the potatoes one medium-sized onion 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 93 

shaved very thin, a teaspoonful of parsley 
chopped very fine, and one or more hard-cooked 
eggs chopped fine. Season with pepper and salt 
to suit, and serve on lettuce. 



CHEESE SALAD. 

Mash a cream cheese, moisten with cream and 
season with salt and paprica. Add six olives 
finely chopped, two tablespoonfuls of Pimentos 
cut in strips. Press in original shape of cheese 
and let stand two hours. Cut in slices and serve 
on lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise. 

LENOX SALAD. 

Remove the skins and seeds from white grapes. 
Add an equal quantity of English walnuts broken 
in pieces. Marinate with French dressing and 
arrange on lettuce leaves. Substitute white cher- 
ries for grapes if preferred. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD. 

Make a cup of two heart leaves of lettuce. 
Heap strawberries cut in halves in the center, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar, and add a tea- 
spoonful of mayonnaise dressing on each portion. 
Serve with Neufchatel or Philadelphia cream 
cheese. 



94 Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 

A SOUTHERN SALAD. 

A favorite salad in the South, and one which 
is very decorative when served properly, is made 
of a large white head of cabbage. Cut out all the 
inside of the cabbage from one end, and refill 
with finely chopped celery and apple, one table- 
spoonful of onion juice and mayonnaise dressing, 
mix all thoroughly. Cloves stuck at regular in- 
tervals around the outside of the cabbage pro- 
duces a very pretty effect. Set the cabbage on a 
dish laid with lettuce leaves. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

To the sliced pulp from one grape fruit add a 
half pound of skinned and seeded white grapes 
and with this eight preserved quinces cut in small 
squares. (Canned pears or peaches may be sub- 
stituted.) To three-fourths of a cup of cream 
add three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and half 
a tablespoonful each of salt and paprika and beat 
until firm. Arrange the fruit in separate groups, 
the quince in the center on a bed of lettuce- 
hearts. Pour the cream on the quince and serve 
on leaves of lettuce. 

STUFFED CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Take medium sized cucumbers, peel carefully, 
cut a strip off the top, scoop out the seeds and 
put in ice water for several hours, to draw out 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 95 

the bitterness and make the cucumbers crisp. 
Just before serving fill them with shredded cab- 
bage and cherry tomatoes cut in half and covered 
with a French dressing. Arrange on a platter 
garnished with nasturtium leaves and flowers. 

STUFFED BEET SALAD. 

Select well-formed, medium-sized beets, boil 
until well done, take off the skins while warm, 
cut off a bit of the end so the beet will stand 
steadily on the plate ; with a potato ball cutter 
remove the center, leaving enough beet to make 
a thick cup. Let the beets stand one hour in 
vinegar, then make a salad of finely shredded 
celery, a few French peas and a thick mayonnaise. 
Take the beets from the vinegar, drain and fill 
with the celery salad, arrange them on a platter, 
and garnish with pitted olives, radishes cut in 
flower shapes, and small lettuce leaf hearts. 



96 Mrs. Dwelled Cool- Book 



Mrs. Dwelles Cook Book 97 



MEATS. 



Meat is the most easily digested of the protein 
foods. Of the various meats, beef is the easiest 
of digestion, pork the least so. Immature meats 
like veal and lamb are less digestible than beef. 
Rarely cooked beef is more digestible than that 
which is well done. Meat is mostly digested in 
the stomach. Only about 5% is unabsorbed. 

Cooking meat develops and improves the flavor. 
It softens the connective tissue and destroys 
germs which might cause dangerous decomposi- 
tion, and in the case of pork destroys parasites 
that are sometimes found in it. Cooking also 
improves the appearance and makes it more at- 
tractive to the e.ye. 

ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. 

Wipe meat, heat dripping pan on top of stove, 
place roast in pan and sear all cut surfaces, place 
in oven, skin side up, and roast twenty minutes 
to each inch of thickness. Have oven moderate. 
If wanted rare, roast fifteen minutes to an inch, 
medium twenty minutes to an inch, twenty-five 
minutes to an inch for well done. 



98 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

RUMP OR POT ROAST. 

Have the butcher extract the bone from the 
rump roast and take a few stitches to keep the 
piece in shape. Place in an iron or aluminum 
pot with a tight cover. Put in with two small 
onions with two cloves stuck in each, a pod of 
red pepper, two carrots, salt, a little allspice. 
Pour enough boiling water over the beef to 
nearly cover it. Let it come to a hard boil, then 
set the pot where it will simmer for six hours. 
Place the beef on a hot dish, strain the gravy, 
and take off every particle of grease. Have 
ready one-half teaspoonful of sugar browned in 
a saucepan, pour the gravy over it, and thicken 
it with a little flour. When cooked pour over 
the beef. Cut up the carrots and arrange around 
ihe meat. 

BROWN GRAVY. 

Remove all but three tablespoonsful of fat 
from pan in which meat was roasted. Add two 
tablespoonsful of flour and stir rapidly until well 
browned. Add gradually two cups of boiling 
water and stir until gravy thickens. Season with 
salt and cayenne. One teaspoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce improves gravy for beef. 

PRESSED BEEF FLANK. 

Wipe, remove superfluous fat and roll a flank 
of beef. Put in a kettle, cover with boiling 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 99 

water and add one tablespoonful of salt, eight 
peppercorns, bit of bay leaf and a small soup 
bone or bone from roast, parsley and onion. 
Cook slowly until meat is in shreds ; there should 
be but little liquor in kettle when meat is done. 
Arrange meat in deep pan, pour over liquor, 
cover and press with heavy weight. Serve cold, 
thinly sliced. 



HAMBURG STEAK. 

One pound round steak, two slices fat salt 
pork chopped together, four tablespoon fuls milk, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt dash cayenne, 
one teaspoon chopped parsley, onion, one-fourth 
teaspoon of celery salt. Mix thoroughly, shape 
in one flat steak, put in hot pan with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and brown each side. Add 
three-fourths cup stock, cover and cook slowly 
five minutes. Remove cover, put meat on hot 
platter, and thicken gravy. 



BEEF LUNCHEON STYLE. 

Minced raw beef seasoned with salt, cayenne 
and parsley, and moistened with cream, moulded 
in cutlet form or flat cakes and broiled. Serve 
with brown, plain or tomato sauce. 



100 Mes. Dwelled Cook Book 

PAN BROILING. 

Heat a cast iron or aluminum frying pan until 
smoking hot, put steak in pan and turn in ten 
seconds, repeat, until meat is well seared, then 
decrease heat and finish cooking, turning less 
often during the latter part of cooking. Do not 
allow fat to accumulate in pan. Pour it off 
several times while the meat is cooking, other- 
wise the meat will be fried. 

PAN BROILED CHOPS. 

Chops for pan broiling should have flank and 
most of fat removed. Wipe chops and put in 
hissing hot frying pan. Turn as soon as under 
surface is seared, and sear other side. Turn oft- 
en, using knife and fork that the surface may not 
be pierced, as would be liable if fork alone were 
used. Cook six minutes if liked rare, eight to 
ten minutes if liked well done. Let stand around 
edge of frying pan to brown the outside fat. 
When half cooked, sprinkle with salt. Drain on 
brown paper, put on hot platter, and spread with 
butter or serve with tomato sauce. 

SAVORY LOAF. 

Three pounds lean beef chopped fine, three 
slices bread soaked in one-half cup of milk, three 
beaten eggs, one-half cup of butter, salt and pep- 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 101 

per. Mix all together and make in a roll. Bake 
two hours, basting often with plenty of water 
in the pan. 

BROILED STEAK. 

Light the oven burners at least five minutes 
before the time for broiling. Allow twelve to 
fifteen minutes for a steak an inch and a half 
thick. When the rack and pan are hot, place 
the steak on the rack, and put it as near the 
flames as possible without having it touch. As 
soon as it is seared and brown on one side, turn, 
sear and brown on the other. Now turn again. 
Remove the rack three or four slides down, but 
do not reduce the heat. Cook for five minutes ; 
turn the steak and broil for five minutes longer 
and it is ready to season and serve. Broil chops 
the same as steak. 



CROWN OF LAMB. 

Selected parts from two loins containing ribs, 
scrape flesh from bone between ribs, as far as 
lean meat, and trim off backbone. Shape each 
piece in a semi-circle, having ribs outside, and 
sew pieces together to form a crown. Trim ends 
of bones evenly, care being taken that they are 
not left too long, and wrap each bone in a thin 
strip of fat salt pork to prevent bone from burn- 



102 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

ing. Roast one and one-fourth hours, covering 
bones with buttered paper. Remove pork from 
bones before serving. 

STEAK STANLEY. 

One pound of lean beef from the upper portion 
of the round of the rump steak. Trim off the fat 
and skin and put the meat twice through a meat- 
chopper; add one rounding teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of scraped onion, one-eighth tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Form at once into small 
steaks, being careful to have them of even thick- 
ness. Pan boil for ten minutes. Serve with 
sauce made as follows : Blend two level table- 
spoons flour, one cupful stock, one teaspoonful of 
butter with two of flour, one cup of milk, salt, 
pepper and half a cup grated horseradish. 

SPANISH BEEF. 

Two cupfuls chopped cooked meat, two table- 
spoons butter, one cupful of tomatoes, two 
tablespoons flour, one cupful stock, one tea- 
spoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper; melt 
and brown the butter, add one small onion, 
sliced, and cook until delicately browned ; add 
the flour and brown, stirring all the while; then 
add the meat ; add the stock and tomatoes, and 
cook until thoroughly heated. Season and serve. 



Mes. Dwelle's Cook Book 103 

BAKED CALVES' HEART. 

Wash the heart thoroughly in cold water. Re- 
move all the tough muscular part from near the 
top. Remove the clot of blood from the tip. 
Stuff with plain bread stuffing, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, butter and chopped parsley. Take 
two stitches across the top of the heart, drawing 
it together. Stand in a sauce pan top down. 
Add sufficient water or stock to partly cover; 
bring quickly to the boiling point. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
bay leaf and slice of onion. Boil for one hour. 
Lift heart out carefully, put it in a baking dish, 
brush with melted butter and bake in a quick 
oven for half an hour or until they are nicely 
browned. Serve with brown sauce, made of 
two level tablespoonfuls of butter and flour and 
one cup of the stock the heart cooked in. 

CREAM RASH WITH TOAST. 

Chop veal, mutton or beef as fine as for hash 
and in the quantity needed. Fry a few minutes 
in salt pork dripping. Take from the fire and 
in the same frying pan make a rich cream gravy 
— if cream is not possible use rich milk. Use 
two level tablespoonfuls each of flour and but- 
ter to thicken a cup of milk. Pour half of this 
sauce or gravy into a pan and place over hot 
water. Thin it with a little hot water. Dip into 



104 Mrs. Divelle's Cook Book 

it well-buttered slices of toast and lay them on 
a flat dish set in a warm place. In the remain- 
der of the thick cream gravy put the minced 
meat, cook five minutes, then spread over the 
toast and serve hot. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Soak in cold water one hour. Throw them 
into boiling water in which you have one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Cook half an hour. Drain, cool quickly 
and break them apart into pieces. Chop fine 
half a can of mushrooms, mix them with the 
sweetbreads. Put two level tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two of flour in a saucepan ; when well 
blended add half a pint of milk, stir until boil- 
ing. Add the sweetbreads and mushrooms, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of 
pepper. Stand over hot water for ten minutes. 
Serve on toast in individual dishes, paper cases 
or in a dish garnished with cooked peas. 

LAMBS' KIDNEYS, SAUTE. 

Split three pairs of lambs' kidneys, scald them, 
throw into cold water, then drain and wipe dry. 
Fry in butter and when done pour over them a 
sauce made by adding to the fat in the pan a 
gill of stock, salt and pepper to taste, and one- 
half tablespoonful of sherry. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 105 



106 



Mrs. Dwelle'a Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 107 



USEFUL INFORMATION 



TO SELECT POULTRY 

A chicken is known by soft feet, smooth skin, 
and soft cartilage at end of breastbone. An abun- 
dance of pinfeathers always indicates a young 
bird, while the presence of long hairs denotes 
age. In a fowl the feet have become hard and 
dry with coarse scales, and cartilage at end of 
breastbone has ossified. A good turkey should 
be plump, have smooth dark legs, and cartilage 
at end of breastbone soft and pliable. Good 
geese abound in pinfeathers. Small birds should 
be plump, have soft feet and pliable bills. 

TO CUT UP A CHICKEN. 

Singe, draw out pinfeathers, cut off head, re- 
move tendons and oil bag. Cut through skin 
between leg and body close to body, bend back 
leg (thus breaking ligaments), cut through flesh, 
and separate at joint. Separate the upper part 
of leg, second joint, from lower part of leg, 
drumstick, as leg is separated from body. Re- 
move wing by cutting through skin and flesh 
around upper wing joint which lies next to body, 



108 Mrs. DweUe's Cook Book- 

then disjoint from body. Cut off tip of wing and 
separate wing at middle joint. Remove leg and 
wing from other side. Separate breast from 
back by cutting through skin, beginning two in- 
ches below breastbone and passing knife between 
terminus of small ribs on either side and ex- 
tending cut to collar-bone. Before removing 
entrails, gizzard, heart, liver, lungs, kidneys, crop 
and windpipe, observe their position, that the 
anatomy of the bird may be understood. The 
back is sometimes divided by cutting through 
the middle crosswise. The wishbone, with ad- 
joining meat, is frequently removed, and the 
breast meat may be separated in two parts by- 
cutting through flesh close to breastbone with 
cleaver. Wipe pieces, excepting back, with 
cheese cloth wrung out of cold water. Back 
piece needs thorough washing. 

TO ROAST CHICKEN OR TURKEY 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss a chicken. Place 
on its back on rack in a dripping-pan. rub entire 
surface with salt, and spread breast and legs 
with three tablespoons butter, rubbed until 
creamy and mixed with two tablespoons flour. 
Dredge bottom of pan with flour. Place in a 
hot oven, and when flour is well browned, re- 
duce the heat, then baste. Continue basting 
every ten minutes until chicken is cooked. For 
basting, use one-fourth cup butter, melted in 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 109 

two-thirds cup boiling water, and after this is 
gone, use fat in pan, and when necessary to pre- 
vent flour burning, add one cup boiling water. 
D'uring cooking, turn chicken frequently, that 
it may brown evenly. If a thick crust is desired, 
dredge bird with flour two or three times during 
cooking. If a glazed surface is preferred, spread 
bird with butter, omitting flour, and do not 
dredge during baking. When breast meat is 
tender, bird is sufficiently cooked. A four pound 
chicken requires about one and one-half hours. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR CHICKENS AND 
TURKEYS. 

Two cups of soft bread-crumbs, one- 
half a cup of butter, melted in one-third 
a cup of hot milk or water, one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one-half a teaspoonful of powdered sweet 
herbs or spiced poultry seasoning, and one 
beaten egg. 

Mix the ingredients together thoroughly. The 
bread should be twenty-four hours old and taken 
from the centre of the loaf. Exact quantities of 
seasoning are given, but this is a matter of in- 
dividual taste. At least twice the amount of 
ingredients given in the recipe will be needed 
for a nine or ten-pound turkey. The egg may 
be ommitted if the dressing is to be eaten hot ; a 



110 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

cold dressing will slice better if the egg be used. 
Cracker-crumbs give a drier stuffing. 



OYSTER STUFFING. 

To a highly seasoned bread-stuffing add an 
equal bulk of whole oysters. Or fill the fowl 
with oysters dipped in cracker-crumbs, then in 
melted butter and again in crumbs. As long 
cooking detracts from the goodness of oysters, 
the fowl may be roasted without stuffing and 
serve with scalloped oysters. 



CASSEROLE OF CHICKEN. 

Disjoint a young chicken. Heat three table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a casserole and saute in 
it the chicken and a small onion and half a car- 
rot, both cut in slices. Add a bay leaf, the 
chicken, and one cup and a half of white-stock; 
cover closely and let cook three-fourths an hour, 
or until nearly tender. Add a dozen potato-balls, 
cut with French cutter and browned ; half a 
dozen mushroom caps, peeled and sauted in but- 
ter; one-third a cup of sherry wine, and a piece 
of bay leaf. Season with salt and pepper, let 
cook ten minutes, remove the fat and serve in 
the casserole. 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 111 

ROAST GOOSE WITH POTATO STUFFING. 

Singe, remove pinfeathers, wash and scrub 
a goose in hot soapsuds; then draw (which is 
removing inside contents). Wash in cold water 
and wipe. Stuff, truss, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and lay six thin strips fat salt pork over 
breast. Place on rack in dripping-pan, put in 
hot oven and bake two hours. Baste every fif- 
teen minutes with fat in pan. Remove pork last 
half-hour of cooking. Place on platter, cut 
string, and remove string and skewers. Gar- 
nish with watercress and bright red cranberries, 
and place Potato Apples between pieces of 
watercress. Serve with apple sauce. 

POTATO STUFFING. 

Two cups hot mashed potato, one and one- 
fourth cups soft stale bread crumbs, one-fourth 
cup finely chopped fat salt pork, one finely 
chopped onion, one third cup butter, one egg, 
one and one-half teaspoons salt, and one tea- 
spoon sage. 

Add to potato, bread crumbs, butter, egg, salt, 

and sage ; then add pork and onion. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR GOOSE. 

Mix a cup and a half of bread crumbs with a 



112 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

quarter cup of chopped butter, and a large chop- 
ped onion. Season with salt and pepper and 
powdered sage leaves. Add a beaten tgg and 
enough milk to wet the mixture. 

VEGETABLES SERVED WITH MEAT. 

With roast beef the favorite methods of serv- 
ing potatoes are Franconia or baked with the 
beef, escalloped, mashed, or mashed and 

browned. Other vegetables that may accom- 
pany the roast are cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, 
new beets, beet greens, spinach, salsify, tomatoes, 
onions, squash, white turnips, green corn, peas, 
and beans of all kinds, and rice, hominy, farina or 
macaroni. 

Beefsteak, mutton or lamb chops are accom- 
panied by sweet or white potatoes in any form, 
fresh-cooked or warmed over, or by any of the 
vegetables served with roast beef. Asparagus 
is often served with meat, but is more appropri- 
ately served as a course by itself. 

With stewed or braised beef, potatoes, tur- 
nips, parsnips, carrots, tomatoes, peas, beans or 
vegetables a la jardiniere are served. 

With corned beef serve boiled potatoes (sweet 
or white), turnips, cabbage, beets, carrots, beet 
tops, spinach, dandelions, Brussels sprouts, cauli- 
flower, and parsnips. 

Boiled mutton or lamb may be accompanied 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 113 

by boiled potatoes, turnips, salsify, onions, car- 
rots, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, spinach or 
green beans. 

Roast mutton calls for same vegetables as 
roast beef, and also red-currant jelly and baked 
or fried bananas. 

With roast lamb, potatoes, green peas, beans, 
spinach, summer squash, white turnips, and as- 
paragus — if this latter be not desired as a separ- 
ate course — are served. 

With veal, roast or braised, choose white tur- 
nips, spinach, beet tops, young beets, peas, 
beans, dandelions, or escalloped cabbage. 

Roast pork calls for potatoes (white or sweet), 
squash, onions, turnips, parsnips, spinach, salsify, 
or cauliflower, and apple sauce. 

Serve with poultry, roasted or boiled, potatoes 
(white or sweet), turnips, celery, cooked or un- 
cooked, onions, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, 
squash, mushrooms, green corn, peas and beans, 
rice, and cranberry sauce. Asparagus accom- 
panies broiled spring chicken. 

With game, the vegetables are usually pre- 
pared in a somewhat elaborate manner. The 
vegetable considered the vegetable par excellence 
is celery, which may be served plain, stewed in 
cream sauce, braised with a brown sauce, or as 
a salad. Other vegetables are white potatoes 
in croquettes, or balls, sweet potatoes, glazed, 
tomatoes, broiled, or in a salad, cauliflower au 



114 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

gratin, spinach a la creme, or peas. Olives and 
black-currant jelly are passed with duck; cur- 
rant jelly, with venison ; and fried hominy, with 
grouse and duck. 

Use only silver implements (silver fish slice, 
spoon or fork) in serving fish not protected with 
a covering of egg and crumbs. 



Mr 8. Dwellers Cook Book 



115 



116 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 117 



"fY^-r-r 



Have everything cold in making pastry. Al- 
ways roll one way, never back and forth. In 
making short crust, handle as little and lightly 
as possible. If a shiny surface is desired, brush 
lightly with beaten egg. Cook pastry in a hot 
oven. 

FLAKY PASTRY, 

To three cups of pastry flour add one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, and 
with a knife or tips of the fingers work in one- 
half cup of lard. When it looks like meal, add 
water gradually and mix to a paste. (Three- 
eighths to three-fourths cup of water.) Knead 
slightly, cover and let stand five minutes. Then 
pat with a rolling pin and roll out in a rect- 
angular sheet. Fold in one-half cup butter, and 
give the dough three or four turns. Allow five 
minutes between each turn. Can be used at 
once. 

PASTRY WITH LARD. 

One and one-half cups of flour, one-half cup 
of lard, one scant teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon 



118 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

of sugar, and sufficient water to make a soft 
dough. Roll and fold twice. 

PUFF-PASTRY. 

One pound butter, one pound flour, one tea- 
spoon lemon-juice, one cup ice water, white of 
one egg. 

Put butter in a cloth in a bowl of ice water, 
and knead with a wooden spoon till elastic. 
(About fifteen minutes, and place on ice.) Sift 
flour, add to it lemon-juice, and white of egg 
slightly beaten, add enough of the water to make 
a stiff dough. Knead the dough on a board un- 
til smooth (about ten minues), then roll out 
one-half inch thick ; lay the butter on the dough, 
fold it over, roll out, fold and roll again, and 
put on ice to cool. Repeat this process until the 
dough has been rolled and folded eight times; 
then roll out, and bake in a moderate oven about 
half an hour. 

MINCE MEAT (Without Meat). 

Two pounds of finely chopped suet, four 
pounds bread crumbs, four pounds currants, four 
pounds raisins, five pounds brown sugar, one- 
half pound mixed candied peel, five pounds of 
apples (peeled, cored and chopped fine), one 
ounce each of ground cinnamon and cloves, two 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 119 

teaspoons ground mace, one tablespoon salt, one 
quart boiled cider. 

Remove all pieces of skin and membrane from 
the suet, and chop fine. Prepare the apples by 
peeling, coring, cutting in quarters, and chop- 
ping fine. Use stale bread for the bread crumbs, 
and grate it. Seed the raisins, and chop. It is 
much easier to seed raisins if they are put for 
a few minutes into a bowl of warm water. The 
currants should be prepared by washing and 
rubbing between a rough towel to remove stems, 
then dried again in the oven. Cut the peel in 
thin slices, and in little pieces about one-half 
inch long. If the brown sugar is lumpy, sift it. 
Put all the prepared ingredients together in a 
large bowl, and mix thoroughly, then put away 
in glass or stone jars for use. Additional flavor 
may be given by adding the grated rind and juice 
of half a dozen oranges. 

Use puff pastry or a rich, short crust for the 
pies, rolling it very thin. Cook till the pastry 
is thoroughly cooked, but not until the mince- 
meat is dried. These mince pies may be eaten 
either hot or cold. 

MINCE MEAT FOR PIES. 

Boil a pound of lean fresh beef, and when it 
is done, chop very fine. Add a half pound of 
minced beef suet, three pounds of sour apples 
chopped fine, a quarter pound of citron cut into 



120 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

small pieces, a half pound of sultana raisins cut 
into halves, a half pound of whole seedless 
raisins, a grated half nutmeg, a pound and a 
quarter dried and prepared currants, the juice 
of a lemon, an ounce of candied lemon peel 
chopped into small pieces, two pounds of sugar, 
a half pint of syrup, a teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice, ginger; a teaspoonful 
and a quarter of salt, a pint of boiled or sweet 
cider, or enough to wet the mixture. Mix and 
cook until the apples are tender. Then add a 
wineglass of brandy — or leave this out. This 
quantity of mince meat will fill from eight to ten 
pies. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Skin the rhubarb and cut into inch lengths. 
Line a pie dish with good pastry, wash this over 
with the white of an Ggg, put in the rhubarb in 
layers and sweeten each layer plentifully with 
sugar. Put on a top crust and bake to a good 
brown. Eat cold and sprinkle well with sugar. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

One cup chopped rhubarb (all solid, no juice), 
one cup of sugar, yolks of two eggs, one des- 
sertspoonful of flour ; mix well and flavor with 
lemon extract. Beat two whites and brown. If 
you do not care for the meringue on top, use 
only one egg. Tastes like lemon pie. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 121 

MILK PIE. 

One pint milk, scalded; three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls flour wet with a little cold milk (like 
starch). Stir this into the scalded milk, add the 
beaten eggs after it comes from the fire, then 
sweeten to the taste and add a little salt and 
flavor. Bake in deep plates like a custard, with 
bottom crust. This is excellent. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Materials : Two cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful lard, one 
cup milk cinnamon, brown sugar, three large 
tart apples chopped. 

Way of preparing: Sift the flour, baking 
powder and salt together. Work into these the 
butter and lard. Then use the milk and com- 
bine all these ingredients into a dough. Place 
on the molding board and roll into a sheet one- 
half of an inch thick and longer than wide. 
Brush it with melted butter and sprinkle thickly 
with brown sugar and cinnamon. Cover with 
the chopped apples and roll up as you would a 
jelly roll. Then cut into twelve equal slices. 
Place the slices on end in a buttered pan. Pour 
one-half the sauce over them and bake until the 
apples are tender. The following is the sauce : 

Materials : One cup sugar, one tablespoonful 



122 Mrs. Dwells' s Cook Book 

butter, one tablespoonful flour, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful salt, one and one-fourth cups hot water, 
one-half a lemon sliced. 

Way of preparing: Mix the sugar, flour and 
salt. Place in a small sauce pan and add the 
butter, lemon and water. Stir until boiling. 
Cook four minutes. Then pour one-half of it 
over the raw dumplings. Pour the other half 
over after they are baked. 

COTTAGE CHEESE PIE. 

Two cups of cottage cheese, two eggs, two 
tablespoons of granulated sugar, one-fourth tea- 
spoon each of salt and of cinnamon, one-half cup 
of sour cream (adding more if the cheese is 
very dry). Stir the cheese well until entirely 
free from lumps. Add the salt, sugar and cin- 
namon. Add the eggs and sour cream well 
beaten together. Line a pie tin with pastry as 
for custard pie. Fill it with the cheese mixture, 
and bake in a hot oven for twenty minues. 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup boiling water, one cup sugar, rind 
and juice of one lemon, two tablespoons corn- 
starch, two tablespoons butter, two eggs. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold water. 
Add to the boiling water, and cook three minutes. 
Remove from the fire, and add the sugar and 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 123 

butter creamed together and the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten. 

Line pans with paste rolled one-fourth inch 
thick. Prick the bottom of the paste, and bake ; 
when almost done, fill the pans three-fourths full 
with lemon filling, and cook till pastry is done; 
then cover with a meringue made of the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff with two tablespoons 
powdered sugar. Cook very slowly till slightly 
browned. 

Serve cold. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup flour, one-fourth cup butter, one cup 
grated cheese, one egg, two tablespoons cold 
water, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-eighth tea- 
spoon paprica. 

Mix the butter and cheese with the flour, 
which had been sifted with the salt and paprica. 
Beat the egg and water, add to the other in- 
gredients, and mix into a stiff dough. Place on 
a floured board, and roll out thin. Cut in strips 
five inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. 
Bake in a moderate oven till golden brown. 

Serve with salad. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with four table- 
spoons of sugar and one of cornstarch. Add a 



124 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

pinch of salt, a tablespoon of vanilla, and two 
cups of milk. Cook in a double boiler until 
thick, stirring constantly. Stir in a cup of grated 
cocoanut, and when cold spread between layers 
of sponge cake. Beat the white of the eggs stiff, 
sweeten and spread on top of the pie. Sprinkle 
thickly with cocoanut. 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 125 



126 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 127 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 



STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

One-fourth cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one 
cup flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, 
one-half cup of strawberry juice, stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs. Cream butter and sugar, 
add flour, one- eighth teaspoon of salt and baking 
powder sifted together, strawberry juice and 
lastly fold in whites of the eggs. Butter 
pudding cups. In the bottom of each place 
a large berry, cover with batter, then a layer of 
berries, cover with the batter, having cups a 
little over half full. Steam for thirty minutes 
and serve hot with strawberry sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Cream one-third cup of butter with one cup 
of powdered sugar, add the white of one egg 
beaten until stiff, then add two-thirds cup of 
strawberries and beat until the fruit is mashed. 

SNOW BALLS. .-r""" 7 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup milk, two and one-fourth cups flour, three 



128 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Bonk 

level teaspoonsful of baking powder, whites of 
four eggs. Cream butter and sugar, then add 
milk and flour sifted with the baking powder and 
a pinch of salt. Add whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff. Steam thirty-five minutes in buttered cups. 
Serve with preserved fruit, marmalade or straw- 
berry sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Two cups flour, one tablespoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, four level teaspoons baking 
powder, one-third cup butter, three-fourths cup 
of milk. Mix dry ingredients, sift twice. Work 
in butter with tips of fingers and add milk gradu- 
ally. Divide in two parts. Roll on floured board. 
Put in round buttered tin and shape with back 
of hand to fit the pan. Spread with butter, lay 
the other part on top and bake in a moderate 
oven. Separate the pieces, spread with butter, 
layer of berries, that have been previously 
mashed and sugared. Place berries on top and 
serve with whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Sift two cups of flour with three teaspoons of 
baking powder, two teaspoons of sugar, one-half 
teaspoon of salt. With tips of fingers work in 
two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons of 
lard, and enough milk to make a soft biscuit 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 129 

dough. Roll out one-half inch thick, spread with 
soft butter, cover with strawberries cut in slices, 
sprinkle with sugar, and roll up as for cinnamon 
rolls. Cut off in one-half inch slices, place in 
pan, and pour around them a sauce made as fol- 
lows : Boil one pint of strawberries with one cup 
of water for ten minutes. Strain and put back 
on stove with one and one-half cups of sugar, 
juice of one-half of a lemon, and two tablespoons 
of flour. Cook until smooth, and pour one cup 
in pan with dumplings. Bake fifteen minutes, 
and serve with rest of sauce. 



COTTAGE PUDDING WITH ORANGE 
SAUCE. 

Two cups flour, two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoon of salt, one-half cup 
butter, mixed in with finger tips, one-half cup 
of milk, two eggs beaten separately, whites 
folded in last. Bake thirty minutes in gem pans, 
and serve with sauce. 



ORANGE SAUCE. 

Pulp of one orange broken into small pieces, 
cover with one cup of powdered sugar. Let 
stand for an hour or more, and just before serv- 
ing add the stiffly beaten white of one egg. 



130 Mrs. Duelled Cook Book 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Cream one-third cup of butter with one cup 
of sugar, add two eggs well beaten, one and 
three-fourths cups of flour, pinch of salt and 
three teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in in- 
dividual pans and serve with sauce made as fol- 
lows : 

Beat whites of three eggs until stiff, add gradu- 
ally one cup of sifted powdered sugar, juice and 
rind of two oranges, and juice of one lemon. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Put one pint of milk in double boiler, moisten 
four level tablespoons of Kingsford's Cornstarch 
with a little extra milk, add to the hot milk and 
stir until smooth ; add one-half cup of sugar, and 
pour, while hot, over the well beaten whites of 
four eggs. Add a pinch of salt and one tea- 
spoon of vanilla. Turn at once in a mould and" 
stand away to cool. Serve with custard made 
from the yolks oi the eggs, three tablespoons of 
sugar, pinch of salt and one pint of milk. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Cream one-half cup of butter with one cup 
granulated sugar, add two eggs, thp roughly beat- 
ing in each one. One-half cup of currants, one- 
half cup of raisins, one cup of flour, one-half 
teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 131 

one cupful of grated carrots, one cup grated raw 
potatoes, one scant teaspoon of soda dissolved 
in one tablespoon of hot water and added to the 
potatoes. Put in a buttered mould and steam 
three hours. 



BREAD PUDDINGS. 

Grate stale bread after drying it thoroughly. 
To three tablespoonsful of the crumbs add one 
pint of cold milk, three eggs beaten with four 
tablespoonsful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of 
cocoanut, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. Soak 
ten minutes ; then fill cups nearly full ; stand in 
a pan of boiling water, and set in a moderate 
oven until the puddings are firm in the center. 
Five minutes before removing, draw the pan to- 
ward the front of the oven, and spread grated 
sweet chocolate over the tops; then leave in the 
oven until the chocolate melts. Let the puddings 
become cool, but not cold, before serving. 



JERSEY RICE PUDDING, 

One quart cold milk, one-half cup rice, scant 
measure, little salt, one-half cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg. Put in a nappy and bake slowly 
two and one-half hours, stirring frequently until 
the last hour. When done it should be like thick 
cream and slip in the dish as you tip it. This 



132 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

pudding must be carefully baked ; it must not be 
hurried. 

VANILLA CUSTARD. 

Boil one pint of cream with four ounces of 
sugar for a quarter of an hour and strain 
through muslin. Beat well the yolks of six eggs 
and pour milk over them, placing the bowl over 
a pan of boiling water. Stir rapidly till it thick- 
ens. Let it cool gradually, then add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and stir continually. When 
cold serve in a dish covered with whipped white 
of eggs sifted over with sugar. 

ORANGE AND RICE LOAF. 

Boil one cup of rice in water until tender, drain 
and put in a double-boiler with one cup of milk, 
three-fourths cup of sugar, yolks of three eggs, 
one cup of orange juice, one-third teaspoon of 
salt. Cook fifteen minutes, take from the fire 
and add one teaspoon of orange extract, and 
turn into a mould. When cold unmould and 
serve garnished with whipped cream and slices 
of orange. 

APPLE DELIGHT. 

Peel and core four large tart apples. Steam 
them until tender, and press through a sieve. 
While hot add two packages of Minute Gelatine 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 133 

and beat thoroughly. Stand the mixture on ice 
and stir it until it begins to thicken, then fold in 
one pint of whipped cream. Turn into and put 
on ice until ready to serve. 

HOW TO PREPARE PLAIN JUNKET. 

Drop one Junket Tablet and a tablespoonful 
of cold water into a cup and crush with a spoon 
to dissolve thoroughly. 

Heat one quart of pure milk until lukewarm, 
about 98 degrees F. — no more ; add sugar and 
flavor to taste and, if desired, a trifle of one of 
the Junket colors. 

COFFEE JUNKET. 

Make a half cup of strong coffee by pouring 
a half cup of freshly boiling water over two 
tablespoons of pulverized coffee. Add the clear 
coffee and a half cup of sugar to a quart of milk. 
If necessary, heat until lukewarm and stir until 
the sugar is dissolved. Add the dissolved tablet 
and finish as a plain Junket. Heap whipped 
cream on top. 

CARAMEL JUNKET 

Cook three-fourths a cup of sugar to caramel. 
Add hot water and let cook, stirring after a 
time, until a thick syrup is formed. Let cool a 
little. Then turn into one quart of rich milk and 



134 Mrs. Divelle's Cook Book 

one cup of cream. Add also one-fourth of a cup 
of sugar and, if not already at blood heat, set 
the dish containing the mixture into a pan of 
hot water for a few minutes. When at the tem- 
perature of about 90 degrees Fahr., stir in a 
junket tablet, crushed an dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of milk or water. Then turn into sher- 
bet glasses. Let the glasses stand in a warm 
place until the mixture jellies. Then chill before 
serving. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

This recipe has been used successfully for at 
least one hundred years. Chop fine one pound 
of beef suet. Mix together, thoroughly, one 
pound each, of seeded raisins and cleaned and 
dried currants, half a pound of citron in fine 
shavings, one cup of flour, one grated nutmeg, a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful, each, of 
mace and cinnamon. Beat the yolks of six eggs. 
Add five tablespoonfuls of sugar, and beat again. 
Then add four tablespoonfuls of cream and half 
a cup of brandy or sherry (orange juice with 
grated rind may be substituted for the wine), 
and pour over three cups of grated bread crumbs. 
Mix the suet and floured fruit evenly together. 
Then stir in the egg-and-crumb mixture, and, 
lastly, the whites of six eggs, beaten dry. Turn 
into a buttered mould or moulds, and steam six 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 135 

hours. Do not allow the water to cease boiling 
during the cooking. 



LIQUID SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Melt a cup of sugar in half a cup of water. Let 
boil five minutes. Add half a cup of brandy and 
the juice of half a lemon. 



HARD SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Cream half a cup of butter. Gradually beat In 
one cup of sugar, then the white of one Qgg, 
beaten light, and drop by drop three or four 
tablespoonfuls of brandy. Or omit the brandy, 
shape the mixture in a pretty dish, and grate nut- 
meg over it. 



CHERRY BATTER PUDDING. 

An easily made cherry pudding calls for two 
eggs well beaten ; to these add one cupful of 
milk, a half teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonfuj 
of sugar and sufficient sifted flour to make a 
thick drop batter. Beat well for a moment, add 
one level teaspoonful of baking powder and one 
cupful of stoned cherries. Turn into a well but- 
tered mold and steam for two hours, serving it 
with either a hard or soft sauce. 



136 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

SHREDDED WHEAT PUDDING. 

One pint milk, one-half cup rolled and sifted 
Shredded Wheat Biscuit, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, one-half cup molasses, three eggs, one-half 
teaspoon cinnamon. Beat the eggs, add salt, 
crumbs, molasses and cinnamon. Mix well, beat 
in the milk, turn into a buttered pudding dish 
and bake, covered, forty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Remove cover and brown. Serve with 
hard sauce, or cool and serve with cream an i 
sugar. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Four level tablespoons butter, one cup sifted 
powdered sugar, white of one egg, one-half tea- 
spoon lemon extract, nutmeg. Scald the bowl 
and spoon. Cream the butter and add the sugar, 
a little at a time, working it in till it is light 
and smooth. Then add the white of the egg 
beaten dry. Beat it into butter and sugar till 
white. Add flavoring, beat in well. Pile lightly 
in dish and sprinkle with nutmeg. 

ST. PETER'S PUDDING. 

In three pints boiling water dissolve three 
envelopes Minute Gelatine (plain) and one cup 
sugar. Add to this, when cool, two large 
oranges cut in very small pieces, two bananas 
sliced thin, one-half cup seeded raisins, one-half 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 137 

cup nut meats, one cup apricot sauce, one cup 
sliced peaches and juice of one lemon. Pour 
into a mould and set in a cool place. Serve with 
whipped cream. If desired, a cup sherry or 
port wine may be used in place of one cup water. 

APPLE CRUMB PUDDING. 

This is a Southern recipe, and most excellent. 
Chop six or eight large apples and take the 
same quantity of dry bread crumbs or cracker 
crumbs, and stir together in a pudding dish with 
a pint and one-half of milk. Add three well 
beaten eggs. Sugar to taste, and add a very 
little powdered cinnamon. Bake one hour in a 
slow oven. Eat cold, with rich cream. 

CHERRY ROLL. 

Roll out a sheet of rich pastry and cover thick 
with pitted cherries ; sprinkle with sugar, roll 
up and place in a baking-dish and bake in a hot 
oven until well browned. Serve hot with cherry 
sauce. Cream one-half cupful of butter with 
one cupful of sugar, stir in as many pitted cher- 
ries as the sauce will hold without separating. 

CREAMED APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Cook two level tablespoons Minute Tapioca 
in one and one-half pints milk fifteen minutes. 
Then add two well beaten eggs, one-half cup 



138 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

sugar, a little salt and remove at once from 
fire. Pare and quarter six apples and sprinkle 
with sugar and nutmeg. Pour over them the 
tapioca custard and bake until apples are soft. 

DELICATE CUSTARD. 

Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons Karo 
Syrup, one pint milk, and one dessertspoon 
Kingsford's Cornstarch. When it thickens flavor 
with vanilla and set aside to cool. This is de- 
licious if poured over fresh or stewed fruit. 

PINE APPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Heat one can grated pineapple, add one-half 
cup sugar, two tablespoons lemon juice and two 
envelopes of Minute Gelatine. Chill in a pan 
of ice water, stirring constantly. When it be- 
gins to thicken fold in one pint of cream whipped. 
Mould and chill. 

LYMAN PUDDING. 

Mix one cup sugar and one cup flour and add 
one cup Karo Syrup. Melt one-half cup butter 
in one-half cup lukewarm milk, and add one-half 
teaspoon soda. Combine mixtures and beat 
thoroughly ; then add four eggs well beaten. Turn 
into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. Serve with Birkshire sauce. 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 139 

BERKSHIRE SAUCE 

Beat the white of one egg until stiff, and add 
gradually, while beating constantly, three-fourths 
cup sugar; then add the yolk of one egg beaten 
until thick and lemon-colored, three-fourths cup 
heavy cream, beaten until stiff, and two table- 
spoons sherry wine. 

HOT VANILLA SAUCE. 

Sift together one-fourth cup of flour, half a 
teaspoonful of salt and one cup of sugar; pour 
on two cups of boiling water, and stir and cook 
until the boiling point is reached, then let sim- 
mer ten minutes. When ready to serve beat in 
a tablespoonful of butter and about two tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream. Gradually 
beat in a cup of sugar, then the well-beaten white 
of an egg. Stir in half a cup of boiling water, 
two tablespoonfuls of wine or a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Boil two squares chocolate in two cups water. 
When entirely dissolved, add three cups sugar 
and one cup Karo Syrup. Flavor with vanilla. 
This is for pouring over ice cream. 



140 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Booh 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 141 



CAKES* 



RULES FOR CAKE MAKING. 

Measure or weigh carefully all ingredients be- 
fore beginning. Prepare the pans. Either 
grease them with oil or lard, or line them with 
greased paper. Do not use butter, it burns and 
makes the cake stick to the pans. Get out all 
necessary utensils. To get the best results, use 
good butter, fine granulated sugar, pastry flour 
(Swansdown), and a good baking powder. 

An earthen or enamel bowl should always be 
used for mixing cake, and a wooden cake spoon 
with slits lightens the labor. Measure dry in- 
gredients and mix and sift baking powder and 
spices, if used, with flour. Count out number of 
eggs required, breaking each separately that there 
may be no loss should a stale egg chance to 
be found in the number, separating yolks from 
whites if rule so specifies. Measure butter, then 
liquid. Having everything in readiness, the 
mixing may be quickly accomplished. If but- 
ter is very hard, by allowing it to stand a short 
time in a warm room it is measured and 
creamed much easier. If time cannot be al- 



142 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

lowed for this to be done, warm bowl by pour- 
ing in some hot water, letting stand one min- 
ute, then emptying and wiping dry. Avoid 
overheating bowl as butter will become oily 
rather than creamy. Put butter in bowl, and 
cream by working with a wooden spoon until 
soft and of a creamy consistency ; then add 
sugar gradually, and continue beating. Add 
yolks of eggs or whole eggs beaten until light, 
liquid and flour added alternately. When yolks 
and whites of eggs are beaten separately, whites 
are usually added at the last, as is the case 
when whites of eggs alone are used. A cake 
can be made fine grained only by long beating, 
although light and delicate with a small amount 
of beating. Never stir cake after the final beat- 
ing, remembering that beating motion should 
always be the last used. Fruit, when added to 
cake, is usually floured to prevent its settling 
to the bottom. This is not necessary if it is 
added directly after the sugar, which is desir- 
able in all dark cakes. If a light fruit cake is 
made, fruit added in this way discolors the loaf. 
Citron is first cut in thin slices, then in strips, 
floured, and put in between layers of cake mix- 
tures. Raisins are seeded and cut, rather than 
chopped. To seed raisins, wet tips of fingers 
in cup of warm water. Then break skins with 
fingers, or cut with a vegetable knife ; remove 
seeds, and put in cup of water. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 143 

REGULATION OF OVEN FOR CAKE 
BAKING. 

Divide the time required to bake the cake 
into quarters ; in the first quarter, the cake is 
to simply become light throughout ; in the second 
quarter it should brown slightly in spots; in 
the third quarter it should become uniformly 
brown ; in the last quarter it should settle a little 
and shrink from the sides of the pan. If the 
cake shows a tendency to brown "in the first 
quarter," it will crust over before it has risen 
to its full height — giving a compact rather than a 
delicate cake, and in some cases, as when in the 
form of a loaf, the cake will be unsightly. 

BOILED SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until light lemon 
colored, add one-half cup sugar gradually, and 
continue beating; then add three-eighths cup o£ 
hot water and another half cup of sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoon of lemon extract, whites of two 
eggs beaten until stifif, and flour mixed and sifted 
with one and one-half teaspoons of baking pow- 
der and one-fourth teaspoon of salt. Bake twen- 
ty-five minutes in a moderate oven in a buttered 
and floured shallow pan. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Beat the whites of eleven eggs until foamy, 



144 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

add one level teaspoon of cream of tartar, and 
keep beating until they are almost stiff, then be- 
gin to add one and one-half cups of fine granu- 
lated sugar, very gradually, beating all the time. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla, and just befor© 
putting in the pan add five teaspoons of boiling 
water. Bake forty minutes. Sift the sugar twice 
and the flour four or five times. 

SPONGE JELLY ROLL. 

Beat the yolks of five eggs until very thick 
add one cup of sugar very gradually, then the 
grated rind of one lemon, and two tablespoons 
of the lemon juice ; beat the whites of five eggs, 
and add half to the sugar and yolks with one- 
half cup of flour, then the other half of the eggs 
with another half cup of flour. Bake in a large 
dripping pan about fifteen minutes ; turn from 
the pan onto a cloth, trim the edges, spread with 
jelly, and roll closely, wrap in the cloth and set 
aside to cool. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add one cup of 
sugar, two eggs well beaten. Sift one and 
three-fourths cups of flour with two and one- 
half level teaspoons of baking powder, and add 
it alternately with one-half cup of milk, then add 
one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in two layers, and 
put cream filling between. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 145 

CREAM FILLING. 

Heat one pint of milk in a double-boiler, mix 
one-half cup of sugar, pinch of salt and two table- 
spoons of Kingford's Cornstarch very thoroughly 
and add it to the hot milk. Stir until it thickens, 
then occasionally for ten minutes. Beat thres 
eggs and stir into the mixture. 

This rilling can be used for cream purls. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Use recipe for Cream Cake, and put Cocoanut 
Frosting between the layers. 

COCOANUT FROSTING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs until very foamy 
but not stiff, add gradually one cup of powdered 
sugar, and one cup of grated cocoanut beating 
all the time. When very light and quite stiff 
spread between layers, and on top, and sprinkle 
thickly with cocoanut. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Cream a scant cup of butter with one and 
three-fourths cups of sugar, yolks of three eggs, 
one cup of milk, two and one-half cups of flour 
sifted with two teaspoons of baking powder, 
grated rind, juice and pulp of one orange, and 
last fold in the beaten whites of three eggs. Bake 
in layers. 



146 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

ORANGE ICING AND FILLING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff but not 
dry, then add grated rind, juice and pulp of one 
small orange, and enough powdered sugar to 
make stiff enough to spread. 

YANKEE CAKE. 

Take one tgg, piece butter size two eggs, one 
and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups 
flour, and one-half cup Kingsford's Cornstarch. 
Turn butter, eggs and sugar into a bowl and beat 
well. (Do not beat eggs alone.) Stir in flour 
and then cornstarch, into which three teaspoons 
baking powder have been sifted ; slowly stir in 
one cup milk. Flavor to taste and bake in 
moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. Good 
as layer cake. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

One cupful butter, one and three-fourths cups 
sugar, three and one-half cups of flour, one cup 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, two level tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of rose 
water. Bake in three layers and use this filling: 

Dissolve three cups granulated sugar in three- 
fourths cup boiling water. Cook until it threads, 
then pour gradually over the stiffly-beaten whites 
of three eggs, stirring constantly. Add to this 
icing one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 147 

chopped nut meats (pecans preferred) and five 
figs cut in very thin strips. Ice the top and sides 
of the cake. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One cupful of rather thick, sour cream, one 
cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of sifted flour, one 
egg, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful, level, of soda dissolved in a little water, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 

OLD FASHIONED POUND CAKE. 

Beat to a cream one pound of butter with 
one pound of sugar thoroughly, cream the yolks 
of twelve eggs and mix well with the creamed 
butter and sugar, add one cup of wine or one- 
half cup of wine and one-half cup of rose water, 
and two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg ; stir in 
one pound of sifted flour, and then fold in the 
whites of eggs, after being whipped to a stin. 
froth. Bake in a moderate oven two hours. 

MOCHA CREAM CAKE. 

One cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of but- 
ter, creamed together. Add one-half cup sweet 
milk, then one and one-half cups of flour sifted 
well with one and one-half teaspoonsful of bak- 
ing powder. To this add the beaten whites of 



148 Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 

three eggs. Bake in two or three layers in a 
moderate oven. 

Filling. — One-half cup strong clear coffee, and 
one-half cup of milk. Heat in a double boiler, 
add to this two heaping teaspoonsful of flour, 
and one cup sugar, and yolks of four eggs, well 
beaten. Cook like custard and when thick add 
two tablespoonsful of butter. 

Icing. — One cup powdered sugar, white of egg, 
two teaspoonsful of coffee. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One cup milk, three-fourths cup grated choco- 
late; heat and when dissolved add one cup sugar, 
yolks of one egg beaten until light lemon color. 
Flavor with vanilla and when cool add to cake 
part. 

CAKE PART. 

Cream one-half cup butter with one cup sugar, 
add yolks of two eggs, then add two and three- 
fourths cups sifted flour and whites of eggs ; add 
pinch of salt and one teaspoon soda dissolved in 
one tablespoon hot water. Bake in layers. Use 
boiled icing between layers and to ice top and 
sides. 

GOLDEN SPICE CAKE. 

Cream together one cup butter and two cups 
brown sugar. Add yolks of seven eggs and one 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 149 

whole Qgg and beat very light. Turn in one 
cup Karo Syrup, four and one-half cups flour, 
one-half cup Kingsford's Cornstarch and one cup 
sour milk in which one even teaspoon soda has 
been dissolved. Add one teaspoon ground cloves, 
two teaspoons cinnamon, two teaspoons ginger, 
one grated nutmeg and pinch cayenne pepper. 
Beat thoroughly and bake in moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Cream one cup of butter with three cups of 
powdered sugar, add yolks of six eggs well 
beaten, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups 
of flour sifted with two heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder, one-half cake (one-fourth 
pound) of chocolate melted over hot water, and 
last fold in the stiffly beaten whites of four 
eggs. Bake in layers with icing. 

ICING FOR CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Boil two cups of granulated sugar with one- 
half cup of water until it ropes. Pour it gradu- 
ally over the beaten whites of two eggs and 
beat until stiff. 

WHITE CAKE WITH CHOCOLATE 
FROSTING. 

Cream one-half cup of butter with one scant 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, two cups of 



150 Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 

pastry flour sifted with three level teaspoons of 
baking powder, one teaspoon of vanilla, and the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in 
two layers. 

FROSTING. 

Melt two ounces of chocolate, add one cup 
of sugar, one-fourth cup of milk, stir and cook 
until a little will form a soft ball in cold water. 
Beat the white of one egg until dry, then add 
the yolk of one egg and beat thoroughly, add 
the syrup to the white and yolk in a fine stream, 
beating constantly meanwhile ; one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Use for both frosting and filling. 

CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING. 

Boil one-third a cup, each, of sugar and water 
ifive minutes ; stir in sifted confectioners' sugar 
and a teaspoonful of extract to make a paste 
that will spread and not run from the cakes. 

BROWN ICING. 

Stir together one-fourth cup of Karo Syrup, 
one cup confectioner's sugar, three tablespoons 
cocoa. Moisten with cold, strong coffee until 
proper consistency. 

FRUIT DROP CAKES. 

Cream together two-thirds of a cup of butter 
and one cupful of brown sugar. Add one tea- 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 151 

spoonful of cinnamon, one-third of a cupful each 
of cleaned currants and seeded raisins cut fine, 
two-thirds of a cupful of chopped English wal- 
nuts, two well beaten eggs, a half teaspoonful 
of vanilla, one pint of flour sifted with one 
scant teaspoonful of baking powder. Drop by- 
small teaspoonfuls in flat pans, shaping them as 
round as possible. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MAPLEINE FROSTING. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup milk, one 
small piece of butter, two teaspoonfuls Mapleine. 
Stir until mixture boils, then boil briskly until it 
forms soft ball in cold water. Cool a little and 
beat until creamy. 

FONDANT ICING. 

Put two cups of sugar, a cup of water and a 
half teaspoonful of lemon juice over the fire. 
Stir until the mixture boils. Wipe down the 
sides of the pan and boil continuously without 
stirring until the syrup spins a heavy thread 
from the tine of a fork, or may be rolled in a 
soft ball when dropped in ice water. Pour this 
carefully on a greased meat platter or marble, 
slab, or you may stand the saucepan in another 
of cold water. When the syrup is cool, not cold, 
begin to beat and beat continuously until it 
hardens and is fine and white. Now put this 



152 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 

mixture in a clean saucepan, add the desired 
flavoring and stir constantly until it is soft and 
creamy. Add now and then a few drops of 
water until it is the proper consistency to cover 
the cake. This icing can only be used for small 
cakes and they must be dipped into it. It can- 
not be spread. You may run a fork into the 
bottoms of the cakes and dip them down into 
the fondant. Turn them over quickly as they 
immediately dry. If one is accustomed to hand- 
ling fondant as soon as it is melted, it may be 
turned over a large round cake, but it must be 
done very quickly. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE. 

One tgg, one cup sugar, one cup milk, two 
tablespoons butter, one teaspoon vanilla or 
other extract, two cups flour, two teaspoons 
Rumford Baking Powder. 

Beat together the egg and sugar till light ; 
add the milk, then the melted butter and extract. 
Sift the flour and baking powder twice, add the 
liquid mixture to them and beat well. Bake 
about forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two scant cups sugar, 
three eggs, Grated rind of one lemon, one cup 
milk, three cups flour, one-half teaspoon salt, 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 153 

two rounding teaspoons Rumford Baking Pow- 
der. 

Beat the butter with half the sugar; add 
gradually the remainder of the sugar together 
with the well-beaten eggs. Next, put in the 
grated lemon, then the milk, and lastly the flour 
sifted with the salt and baking powder. Bake 
about forty minutes in a moderate oven, and 
cover with lemon frosting. 

LEMON FROSTING. 

Juice of two lemons and about two and one-half 
cups powdered sugar. 

Strain the juice of the lemons into a bowl and 
add the sugar, finely sifted, until thick enough 
to spread. The exact quantity of sugar will 
depend on the size of the lemons. Pour over 
the top of the cake, and spread and smooth with 
a thin-bladed knife that has been dipped in water. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Put one-half cup of butter and one cup of 
water in a saucepan, and as soon as boiling 
point is reached, add one cup of flour all at once 
and stir vigorously. When the mixture cleaves 
from the sides of the pan, turn into a bowl and 
beat in four eggs, one at a time, beating each 
one thoroughly before adding the next. Drop 
by spoonfuls on a buttered sheet, one and one- 



154 Mrs. Dwells* s Cook Book 

half inches apart, shaping with handle of spoons 
as nearly circular as possible, having mixture 
slightly piled in center. Bake thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. Witfi a sharp knife make a cut 
in each large enough to admit of cream filling. 
This recipe makes eighteen small cream cakes. 
For flavoring cream filling use lemon extract. 
If cream cakes are removed from oven before 
being thoroughly cooked, they will fall. If in 
doubt, take one from oven, and if it does not fall, 
this is sufficient proof that others are cooked. 

FIG CAKE. 

Cream two cups of sugar with one cup of 
butter. Mix and sift two cups of flour with 
one cup of cornstarch and two rounding tea- 
spoons of baking powder, and add to butter 
alternately with one cup of milk, then add one 
teaspoon of vanilla, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of eight eggs. Bake in layers. For the 
filling and icing, three cups of granulated sugar, 
one-half cup water, whites of three eggs. Boil 
sugar and water until it ropes, beat whites and 
pour syrup over them ; beat until thick enough 
to spread. Save enough to ice top and sides; 
to remainder add one pound of figs chopped fine 
with tough parts taken out. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 155 

and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, one cup of milk, and whites of 
six eggs, one teaspoonful of flavoring. Cream 
butter and sugar, then add milk and flour, into 
which the baking powder is sifted, then add 
flavoring and lastly the three stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs. Bake in layer tins in a hot 
oven. Filling. — Two cupfuls of granulated sugar 
in one-half cupful of water. Boil until it threads, 
then pour over the stiffly beaten whites of two 
eggs, stirring constantly. Add one cup of chop- 
ped raisins, one of nut-meats and three figs cut 
in thin slices. Put between layers and frost the 
cake's top. 

ROYAL ICING. 

White one egg, one teaspoon lemon juice, one 
teaspoon water, confectioner's sugar to form 
thick icing. Sift the sugar, add the water to the 
egg with four tablespoons of the sugar, and stir 
until smooth; then add a little more sugar and 
stir well, and so on until the icing is thick 
enough to spread on the cake. Add the lemon 
juice when the icing is partly made. Add the 
sugar slowly to this icing. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

Cream one-half cup butter with one cup of 
sugar, added gradually, add yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, then whites beaten until stiff. Add 



156 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

two cups fiour, mixed and sifted with two and 
one-half teaspoons baking powder and beat thor- 
oughly. Then add two ounces of chocolate 
melted and one-half teaspoon vanilla. Bake in 
shallow cake pans and as soon as removed from 
pans put between and on top, marshmallows 
pulled apart with tips of ringers, but not quite 
separated into halves. The exposed soft surface 
will quickly adhere to hot cake. Pour over the 
marshmallows a chocolate fudge frosting made 
as follows : Melt one and one-fourth table- 
spoons butter, add one-third cup unsweetened 
cocoa, one and one-fourth cup confectioner's sugar, 
few grains of salt, and one-fourth cup milk. 
Heat to a boiling point, and boil about eight 
minutes. Remove from fire and beat until 
creamy. Add one-half teaspoon vanilla and pour 
over cake. 



MAPLEINE MARBLE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup milk, two eggs, well beaten, one and three- 
fourth cups flour, two level teaspoonfuls Baking 
Powder. 

To half the batter add one teaspoon Mapleine. 
Put in bake pan in alternate layers of spoonfuls 
of dark and white batter. This will make one 
small loaf. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 157 

LAYER NUT CAKE. 

One-half cupful of rich, sour cream, one cupful 
of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, measured before 
sifting, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful each of 
salt and soda, one of baking powder; vanilla. 
Bake in three layers. Use nut filling. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Three-fourths of a cupful of sour cream, three- 
fourths of a cupful of sugar, yolks of tw T o eggs 
two cupfuls of sifted flour, one teaspoonful each 
of baking powder, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt and soda. Bake in 
three layers, and put together with boiled frost- 
ing. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part : — Cream together one cup white 
sugar and one-half cup butter. Add two and 
one-fourth cups flour into which two teaspoons 
baking powder have been previously sifted. Stir 
in one-fourth cup Kingsford's Cornstarch and 
flavor with vanilla. Add whites four eggs and 
one-half cup sweet milk. For the dark part, stir 
together one cup brown sugar, one-half cup Karo 
Syrup, one-half cup butter, yolks four eggs, one- 
half cup sour milk, one teaspoon each ground 
cloves, cinnamon and mace, and one grated nut- 



158 Mrs. Divelle's Cook Book 

meg. Use in all, one and one-half cups sifted 
flour. After part has been stirred in, add one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a little milk, and the 
rest of flour. Pour a little of each kind alter- 
nately into well buttered tin. 



Mrs. Dwellers Cook Book 



159 



160 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book ' 161 



JELLIES. 



Jellies are made of cooked fruit juice and sug- 
ar, in nearly all cases the proportions being 
equal. Where failures occur, they may usually 
be traced to the use of too ripe fruit. 

To Prepare Glasses For Jelly. Wash glasses, 
and put in a kettle of cold water; place on range, 
and heat water gradually to boiling point. Re- 
move glasses, and drain. Place glasses while 
filling - on a cloth wrung out of hot water. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Currants are in the best condition for making 
jelly between June twenty-eighth and July third, 
and should not be picked directly after a rain. 
Cherry currants make the best jelly. Equal pro- 
portions of red and white currants are consid- 
ered desirable, and make a lighter colored jelly. 

Pick over currants, but do not remove stems ; 
wash and drain. Mash a few in the bottom of 
a preserving kettle, using a wooden potato mash- 
er; so continue until berries are used. Cook 
slowly until currants look white. Strain through 



162 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

a coarse strainer, then allow juice to drop 
through a double thickness of cheese cloth or a 
jelly bag. Measure, bring to boiling point, and 
boil five minutes; add an equal measure of heated 
sugar, boil three minutes, skim, and pour into 
glasses. Place in a sunny window, and let stand 
twenty-four hours. Cover, and keep in a cool, 
dry place. 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Grapes should be picked over, washed, and 
stems removed before putting into a preserving 
kettle. Heat to boiling point, mash, and boil 
thirty minutes; then proceed as for Currant Jel- 
ly. Wild grapes make the best jelly. 



TO STERILIZE JARS. 

Wash jars and fill with cold water. Set in a 
kettle on a trivet, and surround with cold water. 
Heat gradually to boiling point, remove from 
water, empty, and fill while hot. Put covers in 
hot water and let stand five minutes. Dip rub- 
ber bands in hot water, but do not allow them 
to stand. New rubbers should be used each 
season, and care must be taken that rims of cov- 
ers are not bent, as jars cannot then be hermeti- 
cally sealed. 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 163 

CANNED PEARS. 

Wipe and pare fruit. Cook whole with stems 
left on, or remove stems, cut in quarters, and 
core. Follow Directions for Canning. A small 
piece of ginger root or a few slicings of lemon 
rind may be cooked with syrup. Bartlett pears 
are the best for canning. 

CANNED PINEAPPPLES. 

Remove skin and eyes from pineapples ; then 
cut in half-inch slices, and slices in cubes, at 
the same time discarding the core. Follow Di- 
rections for Canning. Pineapples may be shred- 
ded and cooked in one-half their weight of sugar 
without water, and then put in jars. When 
put up in this way they are useful for the mak- 
ing of sherbets and fancy desserts. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 
(Cold Process.) 

Materials: Six pounds (hulled) strawberries, 
five pounds of sugar. Wash your hulled straw- 
berries, a few at a time, and drain thoroughly. 
On a large platter place a layer of strawberries, 
then one of sugar, and continue this way until 
you have used up all your ingredients. Let 
stand in a refrigerator one hour. Have your 
cans perfectly dry and cold. When your berries, 



164 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

have stood for one hour fill the cans running 
over full, packing the fruit in with a spoon and 
shaking down well so as to leave no air spaces. 
Place on the covers, screw down as tightly as 
possible, wrap each can in paper and keep in a 
cool, dry place. 

These strawberries are fine for shortcakes. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 
(Hot Process.) 

Materials: Six pounds hulled strawberries, 
two pounds of sugar. Take one-fourth of the 
berries, selecting inferior ones, place them in a 
jelly bag and press out all the juice. Measure 
the juice and add to it one-third of its quantity 
in water, place in a saucepan on the fire and 
when hot add the sugar. Boil fifteen minutes, 
then strain. Place the remaining berries in the 
fruit cans, having them moderately full. Set 
these cans in a boiler and pour the prepared 
strawberry syrup over them into the cans. Put 
the rubber bands in place and the covers on 
loosely, and add sufficient boiling water to cover 
the cans three-fourths of their height. Cover 
and let boil twenty minutes. Take the cans from 
the boiler, and screw down the covers tight. 

After the cans have become cold tighten the 
covers again. Wrap in paper and keep in a cool, 
dry place. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 165 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Pare and seed ten ripe cucumbers. Slice and let 
stand 24 hours in cold weak vinegar. Drain and 
put into fresh vinegar with two pounds of brown 
sugar, one ounce of cassia buds to each quart 
of vinegar and one tablespoon of salt. Boil all 
together until cucumbers are clear. 

Put in fruit jars while hot. 

FRENCH PICKLE. 

Slice two pecks of green tomatoes, and twelve 
large onions, and throw over them two cups of 
salt. Let them remain over night. In the morn- 
ing drain and boil them 15 minutes in vinegar 
and w T ater. Drain. Then take two quarts of 
vinegar, four tablespoons of brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of mustard, two tablespoons each of 
cinnamon, gound cloves, and allspice, and one 
tablespoon of cayenne pepper. Add drained to- 
matoes and boil all 15 minutes. 

CHIPPED PEARS. 

Take six pounds of sugar, put it on the stove 
with just enough water to dissolve it. Then 
add eight pounds of pears cut into very small 
pieces, one-fourth pound of green ginger root 
scraped and cut in thin slices, the juice of four 
lemons, and the rind of one cut very thin. Cook 
two hours. 



166 Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 167 



FRENCH WORDS IN COOKING. 



Aspic — Savory jelly for cold dishes. 

Au gratin — Dishes prepared with sauces and 
crumbs, and baked. 

Buchees — Very thin patties or cakes, as name 
indicates — mouthfuls. 

Baba — A peculiar, sweet French yeast cake. 

Bechamel — A rich, white sauce made with 
stock. 

Bisque — A white soup made of shell fish. 

To Blanch — To place any article on the fire 
till it boils, then plunge it in cold water ; to 
whiten poultry, vegetable, etc. To remove the 
skin by immersing in boiling water. 

Bouillon — A clear soup stronger than broth, 
yet not so strong as consomme, which is "re- 
duced" soup. 

Braise— Meat cooked in a closely covered ste\t 
pan, so that it retains its own flavor and those 
of the vegetables and flavorings put with it. 

Brioche — A very rich unsweetened French cake 
made with yeast, 

Canneton— Stuffed rolled-up meat. 



168 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 

Consomme — Clear soup or bouillon boiled 
down till very rich, i. e., consumed. 

Croquetts — A savory mince of fish or fowl, 
made with sauce into shapes and fried. 

Croustades — Fried forms of bread to serve 
minces or other meats upon. 

Entree — A small dish usually served between 
the courses at dinner. 

Fondue — A light preparation of melted cheese. 

Hollandaise Sauce — A rich sauce, something 
like hot mayonnaise. 

Mutelote — A rich fish stew, with wine. 

Mayonnaise — A rich salad dressing. 

Meringue — Sugar and white of egg beaten to 
sauce. 

Marmade — A liquor of spices, vinegar, etc., in 
which fish or meats are steeped before cooking. 

Miroton — Cold meat warmed in various ways, 
and dished in circular form. 

Purse — This name is given to very thick soups, 
the ingredients for the thickening which have 
been rubbed through a sieve. 

Poulette Sauce — A bechamel sauce to which 
white wine and sometimes eggs are added. 

Ragout — A rich, brown stew, with mushrooms, 
vegetables, etc. 

Piquante — A sauce of several flavors, acid pre- 
dominating. 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 169 

Remoulade — A salad dressing differing from 
mayonnaise in that the eggs are hard boiled, 
and rubbed smooth with mustard, herbs, etc. 

Rissole — Rich mince of meat or fish, rolled in 
thin pastry and fried. 

Roux — A cooked mixture of butter and flour, 
for thickening soups and stews. 

Salmi — A rich stew of game, cut up and 
dressed, when half roasted. 

Souffle — A very light, much whipped-up pud- 
ding or omelette. 

Timbale — A sort of pie in a mould. 

Vol au vents — Patties of very light puff paste, 
made without a dish or mould and filled with 
meats or preserves. 



170 Mrs. Dwelled Cook Book 



Mrs. Dwelle's Cook Book 



171 



INDEX. 



Suggestions for Cookery — 

Eggs 6 

Vegetables 7 

Milk 8 

Sauces 8 

Clarified Butter 8 

Soups— 

Brown Soup-Stock 11 

White Stock 12 

Giblet.. 12 

Mulligatawny 13 

Chicken Gumbo 13 

Mock Turtle 13 

Macaroni 14 

Julienne 14 

Corn 15 

Potato 15 

Cream of Tomato 15 

Fisb Chowder 16 

Asparagus Soup 16 

Oyster Plant 17 

Fish— 

To Determine Freshness 19 

To Broil 19 

To Bake 20 

To Fry 20 

Fried Smelts 20 

Filets 21 

Steamed Halibut 21 

Planked White 22 

Stuffed Baked 22 

Fish Timbales 23 

Fresh Fish Balls 23 

Tomato Sauce 24 

Codfish in Cream 24 

Canned Salmon 24 

Sauce 25 

Fish Balls 25 

Creamed Fish 26 



Fish — Continued . 

Baked Finnan Haddie 26 

Broiled Salt Mackerel 26 

Scalloped Oysters 27 

Fried Oysters 27 

Oyster a la Newberg 28 

Pan-Baked Oysters 28 

Oyster Cocktail 28 

Toasted Corn Flake Fish Cutlets 29 
Shredded Wheat Oyster Patties 29 

Broiled Live Lobster 30 

Lobster a la Newberg 30 

Fried Scallops with Garnish of 

Bacon 31 

Cream of Oyster Soup 31 

Gloucester Codfish Chowder 31 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 32 

Fish Balls and Bacon 32 

Fish Pudding 33 

EGGS— 

Boiled 35 

Poached 36 

Eggs Creole 36 

Creamed 37 

Eggs Lafayette 37 

Curry Sauce 37 

Fancy Omelet 38 

Tomato Sauce 38 

Scrambled Eggs with Onions. ... 39 

Scotch Wood Cock 39 

French Omelet 39 

Spanish Omelet 40 

Scrambled Eggs 40 

Eggs Scrambled witb Tomatoes.. 40 

Eggs en Nest 41 

Curried Eggs 41 

Scalloped Eggs 42 

Creamed Eggs with Cheese 42 

Egg Croquettes 43 



172 



Index 



Bread — 

White 47 

Sticks 47 

Graham 48 

Whole Wheat 48 • 

Parker House Rolls 49 

Salad Rolls 49 

Sticks 50 

Swedish Rolls 50 

Sweet French Rolls 51 

Hot Cross Buns 5i 

Cinnamon Rolls 52 

German Nut Cake 54 

Uses for Stale Bread 53 

Baking Powder Biscuit 53 

One-Egg Muffins 54 

Waffles 54 

Quick Coffee Cake 54 

Sally Lunn 55 

Toasted Corn blake Waffles 55 

Crullers 56 

G'^od Ginger Bread 56 

Corn Batter Bread 56 

Mush Bread 57 

German Puffs 57 

Milk Biscuit 57 

Pop-Overs 58 

Quick Brown Bread 58 

Toasted Corn Flake Gems 59 

Macaroni, Rick, Spaghetti — 

Scalloped Rice 61 

Creamed Macaroni with Cheese.. 61 

Deviled Macaroni 62 

Macaroni with Cheese 62 

Cheese Souffle 63 

Welsh Rabbit on Triscuit 63 

Green Peppers Stuffed with Spa- 
ghetti 64 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 64 

Tomato Sauce 65 

Macaroni Hungarian 65 

Macaroni Croquettes 65 

Escalloped 69 



Potatoes — 

French Fried 69 

German Fried 70 

O'Brien 70 

Au Gratin 70 

French Fried Sweet Potatoes 7(i 

Lyonnaise 71 

Vegetables — 

Egg Plant with Tomato Sauce. . . 73 

Cold Slaw 73 

Stewed Cabbage 74 

Hungarian Cabbage 74 

Turnips with Cream Sauce 74 

Carrots with Sauce Hollandaise. 74 

Tomato Creole 75 

Scalloped Tomatoes 75 

Creamed Cauliflower 76 

Creamed Spinach 76 

Boiled Onions 77 

Stuffed Onions 77 

Stuffed Egg-Plant 77 

Creamed Mushrooms 78 

Corn Pudding 78 

Cabbage and Celery 79 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style.. 79 

Creamed Salsify 80 

Mocked Fried Oysters 80 

Salads — 

French Dressing 84 

Mayonnaise Dressing 84 

Cr«am Dressing 85 

Boiled Dressing 86 

German Salad Dressing 86 

Vinaigrette 1 Sauce 86 

Cucumber Jelly 86 

Tomato Aspic Border 87 

Roquefort Salad Dressing 87 

Asparagus. 88 

Sweetbread and Cucumber 88 

Pear 88 

Spring 89 

Hungarian 89 



Index 



173 



Salads — Continued. 

Juliet 89 

Lyman 90 

Egg, Tomato and Green Pepper.. 90 

Waldorf 90 

Chicken in A spic 91 

Chicken 92 

Folate. 92 

German Potato 92 

Cheese 93 

Lenox 93 

Strawberry 93 

A Southern Salad 94 

Fruit 94 

Stuffed Cucumber 94 

Stuffed Beet 95 

Meats — 

Roast Ribs of Beef 97 

Rump or Fot Roast 98 

Brown Gravy 98 

Pressed Beef Flank 98 

Hamburger Steak 99 

Beef, Luncheon St yle 99 

Pan Broiling 100 

Pan Broiling Chops 100 

Broiled Steak 101 

Crown of Lamb 101 

Steak Stanley 102 

Spanish Beef 102 

Baked Calves' Heart 103 

Cream Hash with Toast 103 

Creamed Sweetbreads 104 

Lamb's Kidneys, Saute 104 

Useful Information — 

To Select Poultry 107 

To Cut Up a Chicken 107 

To Roast Chicken <>r Turkey — 108 
Bread Stuffing for Thickens and 

Turkeys 109 

Oyster Stuffing 110 

Casserole of Chicken 110 

Roast Goose with Potato Stuffing 1 1 1 

Potato Stuffing ill 

Bread Stuffing for Goose ill 

Vegetables Served with Meat 112 



Pastry — 

Flaky Pastry 117 

Pastry with Lard 117 

Puff- Pastry 118 

Mince Meat 118 

Mince Meat for Pies 119 

Rhubarb Pies 120 

Milk Pie 121 

Apple Dumplings 121 

Cottage Cheese Pie 122 

Lemon Pie 122 

Cheese Straws 123 

Cocoauut Cream Pie 123 

Puddings and Desserts — 

Strawberry Pudding 127 

Strawberry Sauce 127 

Snow Balls 127 

Strawberry Shortcake 128 

Strawberry Dumplings 128 

Cottage Pudding with Orange 

Sauce 129 

Orange Sauce 129 

Orange Pudding 130 

Cream Pudding 130 

Ca> rot Pudding 130 

Bread Pudding 131 

Jer-ey Rice Pudding 131 

Vanilla Custard 132 

Orange and Rice Loaf 132 

Apple Delight 132 

How to Prepare Plain Junket . . .133 

Coffee Junket 133 

Caramel Junket 133 

English Plum Pudding 134 

Liquid Sauce for Plum Pudding. 135 
Hard Sauce for Plum Pudding. . .135 

Cherry Batter Pudding 135 

Shredded Wheat Pudding 136 

Hard Sauce 136 

St. Peter's Pudding 136 

Apple Crumb Pudding 137 

Cherry Roll 137 

Creamed Apple Tapioca 137 

Delicate Cusl a rd 13« 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream 138 



174 



Index 



Puddings— Continued. 

Lyman Pudding 138 

Berkshire Sauce 139 

Hot Vanilla Sauce 139 

Foamy Sauce 139 

Hot Chocolate Sauce 139 

Cakes— 

Rules for Cake Making 141 

Regulation of Oven for Cake 

Baking 143 

Boiled Sponge Cake 143 

Angel Cake 143 

Sponge Jelly Roll 144 

Cream Cake 144 

Cream Filling 145 

Cocoanut Cake 145 

Cocoanut Frosting 145 

Orange Cake 145 

Orange Icing and Filling 146 

Yankee Cake 146 

Lady Baltimore Cake 146 

Feather Cake 147 

Old-Fashioned Pound Cake 147 

Mocha Cream Cake 147 

Devil's Food 148 

Cake Part 148 

(iolden Spice Cake 148 

Chocolate Cake 149 

Icing for Chocolate Cake 149 

White Cake with Chocolate 

Frosting 149 



Cakes— Continued. 

Frosting 150 

Confectioners' Frosting 150 

Brown Icing 150 

Fruit Drop Cakes 150 

Mapleine Frosting 151 

Fondant icing 151 

Poor Man's Cake 152 

Lemon-Ca ke 152 

Lemon Frosting 153 

Cream Pulls 153 

Fig Cake 154 

Lady Baltimore Cake 154 

Royal Icing 155 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake. . .155 

Mapleine Marble Cake 156 

Layer Nut Cake 157 

Spice Cake 157 

Marble Cake 157 

Jellies— 

Currant Jelly 161 

Grape Jelly 162 

To Sterilize Jars 162 

Canned Pears 163 

Canned Pineapples 163 

Canned Strawberries (Cold) 163 

Canned Strawberries (Hot) 164 

Ripe Cucumber Pickle 165 

French Pickle 165 

Chipped Pears 165 



SWANS DOWN 



AWARDED 
GRAHO PRIZE 

ST. 10IKS 

vcsiirs FAIR 

1904 



£*<.:■:■;■*:;■ 



£-" 



Makes 

Lightest, 

Whitest, 

Finest 
Cakes 

CAKE SECRETS, a valuable 
book brimful of Cake Recipes 
and information on baking" fine 
Cakes SENT FREE on receipt of 
2c stamp and your Grocers Name. 
Address Dep't 

Each Package Contains Flour for 
12 Cakes and 12 Cake Recipes 



l6LEHHBTv;B;R.0S;>-EVaiisville^nd; 



Also Makers of the Famous Igleheart's 
Swans Down Pure Wheat Graham Flour. 
Just what you are looking for. Package 
contains an excellent recipe for Graham 
Bread with Raisins and Nuts. Look for 
five more recipes on label on outside of 
package. 



Have you 
w sent for your 



this 



book 



7 



Please the family by frequent varia- 
tion in your bill of fare. Send for 
booklet. "True Food Economy," 
mailed Free, to show the many de- 
lightful ways of serving 

Gorton *s Codfish 

"No Bones" 

This fish — taken from the icy bot- 
tom of northern seas — sold in moist- 
ure proof packages — is the most 
nutritious of foods. Prepared by these 
recipes, it is the most delicious as 
well. Surprise the family. 
GORTON-PEW FISHERIES CO., Gloucester, Mass. 



«M II * l ■ H*»3i 




NEW AND DELICIOUS 
DESSERTS 



WITH 



MAPLEINE 



The Flavor De Luxe. 



It makes milk puddings taste better. It makes 
original desserts. As a flavor for puddings, sauces 
and ices on cakes it is deliciously good. It is a great 
favorite for flavoring ice cream and candies. 

Above all you should use MAPLEINE) for mak- 
ing a superb table syrup at home by dissolving gran- 
ulated sugar in water and adding the MAPLEINE. 
Such a Syrup is economical, pure and good. 

DESSERT BOOK FREE. 

Send for our book "MAPLEINE DAINTIES" 
and if your grocer does not have MAPLEINE, send 
us 35c (Canada 50c), for a 2 oz. bottle. If it is not 
all that we claim for it your money will be refunded. 
Write— 

CRESCENT MANUFACTURING CO., 
SEATTLE, WASH. 



(177) 



The 

Toasted 

Corn 

Flakes 




That Mrs. Dwelle uses and that 
are referred to in her recipes are 
the original 




There are a few imitations. 
They're not so good. Look for 
the familiar red and green pack- 
age with the signature — 



# tf.tfltfcyo- 



Junket 



Is a Dainty, Healthful and Nutritious 
Dessert, easily and quickly made 
with a quart of Sweet New Milk and 
one of 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Tablets 

10 Tablets for 10 Quarts, Cost 10 Cents. 
Cook Book with Each Package. 

For ICE CREAM the JUNKET TABLETS are 
indispensible. They make the richest, most velvety 
Ice Cream you ever tasted— Cheaper and t Better than 
any other process. 

Chr. Hansen's Jnnket Colors 

Put up in full-size 1-oz. bottles; 
3 colors, 10c each. 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Flavors 

Put up in full-size 2-oz. bottles; 

Vanilla and 11 other flavors, 

20c each. 

Make BUTTERMILK at Home with 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Brand 
Buttermilk Tablets 

15 Tablets - - 25c 
75 Tablets - $1.00 

For sale by grocers and druggists or at 

CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY, 

Box LITTLE FALLS. N. Y. 



GET ACQUAINTED Yh™ MINUTEMAN 

He is the trade-mark 
on Minute Tapioca 
and Minute Gela- 
tine, the nationally 
advertised products 
known for their purity 
and convenience of 
preparation. 

Minute Tapioca 

requires no soaking. 

Minute Gelatine 

(Plain) 

ready measured. 

Minute 
Gelatine 

(Flavored) 

dissolves in- 
stantly. 




Satisfaction 
Guaranteed. 



Send your Grocer's name for the "Minuteman Cook Book." 

Minute Tapioca Company, 

Dept. X. ORANGE, MASS. 



RUMFORD 

THE WHOLESOME 

BAKING POWDER 

Best of the High=Grade Powders, 

surpassing all others in healthful 

and baking qualities. 

Pure and Wholesome. It is com- 
posed of the genuine Prof. Horsford's phos- 
phate, pure bicarbonate of soda, the finest 
starch and nothing else, thus adding to the 
food the strengthening phosphates necessary to 
health. Fine wheat flour is of little value as a 
strengthening food because it has been deprived 
of the phosphates in bolting. This deficiency 
is supplied by Rumford Baking Powder. 

Perfect Baking Quality. Its action 
is thorough, making cake, biscuit, etc., of the 
finest texture which will retain their fresh con- 
dition longer than when made with any other 
powder. Contains no alum and gives no bitter 
or disagreeable * 'baking-powder' ' taste to the 
food. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS, 

PROVIDENCE, R. I. 



Ehmann's California 

RIPE OLIVES! 

Ehmann's California 
Ripe Olives should be 
considered and classed as 
a food and not as a relish. 

The) 7 are so full of oil 
that they act as a lubri- 
cant when eaten freely 
and are very beneficial to 
the system. 

Ehmann's California 
Ripe Olives are far supe- 
rior to any other brand. 
They are as juicy and as 
tempting as though just 
plucked, because they are 
packed in patent vacuum 
jars which retain all their 
natural flavor. 

Medium size Olives — 

12-oz. jars for 30c 

26-oz. jars for 55c 

Extra large size Olives — 

12-oz. jars for 35c 

26-oz. jars for .. .65c 



Ehmann's California 

OLIVE OIL! 

Pure Olive Oil should 
be a part of our daily food. 

Perhaps all Olive Oils 
are good but there is ONE 
Olive Oil that's so much 
better and more nutri- 
tious than any other 
brand. 

It's Ehmann's far- 
famed California Olive 
Oil, made from choice 
ripe olives, especially 
grown for Ehmann's 
Olive Oil. 

We are exclusive St. 
Louis Agents for this 
superior Oil. 

Every bottle sold on a 
money-back- if-you-are- 
not satisfied basis. 

Trial size bottle for 30c 
Medium size bottle, 55c 
Large size bottle, $1.00 
Half-gallon can, $2.00 
One gallon can, $3.65 



ON SALE ONLY AT 

CONRAD'S 

FOUR QUALITY STORES 



713-715 Washington Ave. 
4470 76 Delniar Ave. 



Grand and Shenandoah Aves. 
Union Ave. and Suburban. 



For gravies, soups 
and sauces the 

best thickening is 

Kingsford's Cora Starch 

For Cup Custards, Blanc Mange, Char- 
lotte Russe and one hundred 
other delicate desserts, see 
a Kingsford's Cook Book, con- 
taining famous recipes from 

good cooks, east and west. 

It is free to housewives. 

Write for "Cook Book X." 




T.KINGSFORD&SON 

OSWEGO, N. Y. 

National Starch Company 
Successors 



This is the great syrup 
for candy, table use and all kinds of 
cooking. Makes the finest taffy, 
butter scotch and fudge you ever ate. 

K&ro 

CORN SYRUP 

spread on bread is fine for children. It 
is the one wholesome syrup for griddle 
cakes. In cooking it imparts a natural 
flavor where some sweet is needed . Agrees 
with everybody. 

Send for free "Karo Cook 

Book," showing the 

many uses of Karo in 

cooking and candy 

w ^t making. 

[/V^Ol CORN PRODUCTS REFINING CO 

"srai/PB Dept. X NEW YORK P. O. Box 161 





I THOROUGHLY RELIABLE g 

x x 

X THE BEST RESULTS ARE OBTAINED jg 

g BY USING ** 



X 
X 
X 
X 
X 





Registered 
U. S. Pat. Office 



X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 

(Blue Wrapper, Yellow Label) gg 

In making Cakes, Pies t Puddings, 55 
frosting, Ice Cream, Sauces, *5 
Pudges, Hot and Cold Drinks v 

For more than 130 years this X 
chocolate has been the standard 
for purity, delicacy of flavor 
and uniform quality. 

53 Highest Awards in Europe and America 

The trade-mark, "La Belle Chocolatiere," 
on every genuine package. A beautifully 
illustrated booklet of new recipes for 
Home Made Candies and Dainty Dishes 
sent free. Drop a Postal to 



A 

X 
X 
X 
X 

X Established 1780 

X 



Walter Baker & Co. Ltd. 

DORCHESTER, MASS. 



"U 24 !9f| 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



IU! 



