115 i 



York Cook Book 





Class 
Book 
Copyi#tW— 

COWBIOHT DEPOSIT. 



®i|^ fork (Haok lonk 



Furnished by the Ladies of York, 
Nebraska. Arranged by Ladies of 
the Presbyterian Church. .'. '.• .'. 




A i&Qoii Sf rtpr 



Take a gill of forbearance, a pint of submission, twelve 
ounces of patience, a handful of grace: mix well with the milk 
cf human kindness and serve, with a radiant smile. .*. .". .". 



<v 



fflotttfttta 



PAGE 

Soup 4 

Fish - : 7 

JNd^ats - ---■- -- 10 

Poultry 17 

Vegetables -, ^2 

Bread 26 

Griddle Cakes, Croquettes, Fritters and Waffles .-..- 34 

Sandwiches 3 8 

Cheese 39 

Eggs and Omelets 42 

Salad and Salad Dressings - 43 

Pickles - 49 

Cavtsup, Chili Sauce, Etc 55 

Pies 57 

Short Cakes Etc 63 

Puddings - 64 

Pudding Sauces -- 73 

Cisikes ..: 7 4 

Cake Fillings 88" 

Small Cakes and Cookies - 90 

Ginger Bread -- 95 

Doughnuts .-.- --.;-- ^6 

Fancy Desserts ---;-/- ^^ 

Ices and Ice Cream 'a. - 102 

Drinks ; - 104 

Candy " - 105 

Canned Fruits, Preserves, Jellies, Etc 107 

Miscellaneous - 108 

Hints , y 110 



©CI.A30O774 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



One quart sifted flour (heaped) weighs 1 lb. 

Three coffee cups sifted flour (level) weigh 1 lb. 

Four teacups sifted flour (level) weigh 1 lb. 

One quart sifted Indian meal weighs 1 lb, 4 oz. 

One pint soft butter (well packed) weighs 1 lb. 

Tvro teacups soft butter (well packed) weighs 1 lb. 

Two coffee cups powdered sugar ( level) weighs 1 lb. 

One and one-half coffee cups granulated sugar (level) weighs 

1 lb. 
Two teacups granulated sugar (level) weighs 1 lb. 
Two teacups "coffee A" sugar (well heaped) weighs 1 lb. 
One tablespoon (well heaped) granulated "coffee A" or best 

brown sugar weighs 1 oz. 
Two tablespoons (well rounded) powdered sugar or flour 

weighs 1 oz. 
One tablespoon (well rounded) soft butter weighs 1 oz. 
Three tablespoons sweet chocolate (grated) weighs 1 oz. 
One wine glass full (common size) equals four tablespoons. 
A common sized tumbler holds about one half pint. 
Four gills make one pint. 



THE YORK COOK BOOK. 



SOUP. 



Dumplings. One cup sour cream, a little soda and salt, one 
egg. Mix up thick with flour. Drop slowly in the kettle of 
beef broth, a little at a time. They can be made without eggs. 

Mrs. Fred James. 

Drop Dumplings for Chicken. Take two eggs, four table 
spoons water, teaspoon baking powder and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Drop from the spoon into the soup. 

Mrs. Libbie Shaw. 

Egg Dumplings for Soup. To half pint milk add two well 
iDeaten eggs, and as much flour as will make a smooth (rather 
thick) batter, free from lumps. Drop this batter, a tablespoon- 
ful at a time, into boiling soup. Boil fifteen minutes or long- 
er, A half teaspoon baking powder improves the dumplings. 

Mrs. Mary B. Provost. 

Chicken Broth. The water chicken was boiled in, set away 
in a cool place, makes a good broth. The next day skim off the 
fat, take the bones of the chicken, put into the soup pot with 
the broth, one onion cut very fine, one carrot, one turnip, a 
small bunch of parsley, a little salt and pepper. Let boil two 
hours. With a skimmer take out the bones. Add half a cup 
of rice or vermicelli. Let it boil one hour. You will then 
have a nice chicken broth. Take off all tiie meat you can from 
the bones. To make any of these little dishes requires but 
very little meat. MRS. ANNA CLARK. 

Chicken and Egg Soup. Cut a chicken at the joints. Put in 
enough cold water to cover it well. When it comes to a boil 
Ekim it well and season with salt and pepper. Half hour be- 
fore serving put in two leaves of laurel and one of cabbage. 
When ready to serve, strain, return to the fire, add two eggs, 
well beaten, into which has been stirred one cup of dry bread 
grated. Cook about one minute. Keep the chicken well cov- 
ered with water. Beef or mutton may be used in the same 
manner. MRS. HERMAN BEHLING. 



SOUP 5 

Canned Corn 8oup. Open a can of corn, turn it into a gran- 
iie-ware dish, and thoroughly mash with a potato-masher un- 
til each kernel is broken; then rub through a sieve to remove 
the skins. Add sufficient rich milk to make the soup of the 
desired consistency, season with salt, reheat and serve. If pre- 
ferred a larger quantity of milk and cream may be used, and 
the soup, when reheated, thickened with a little cornstarch or 
flour. MRS. ELVA ARMSTRONG. 

Corn Soup. One can corn, one quart and two gills milk, 
three tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon 
salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon chopped on- 
ion, yolks two eggs. Mash the corn fine, add the quart of milk 
end cook fifteen minutes. Cook butter and onion in frying pan 
slowly; now add flour and cook until frothy, stir this into corn 
snd milk, add salt and pepper and cook ten minutes; then rub 
the soup through a strainer and return to the fire, beat the 
yolks well, add the two gills of milk, stir this into the soup 
and cook for one minute, stirring all the time. 

MRS. PRA.NK HANXIS. 

Xocdles. Take one-third cup broth and let it cool. When 
cool add to it one egg and knead in enough flour to make a 
stiff dough. Roll as thin as possible, dredging with a little 
flour, roll up snugly and slice from the end, then shake out the 
strips and place on plates until dry. This may done in the oven 
when not too hot, with both doors left open. They may be 
added to any rich soup, chicken broth preferred. They will 
cook in twenty or thirty minutes, hence should be put in only, 
this length of time before serving. MRS. OLIVE DURHAM. 

Cream of Pea Scup. Put one pint of peas, measured after 
shelling, into a granite sauce pan, with enough cold water to 
•cover, and cook until tender. Take out half of them, rub the 
remainder through a sieve with the. water in which they were 
boiled. Scald three cups sweet milk, rub together two table- 
spoons of flour, and one of butter, add to the milk and the peas 
that were rubbed through the sieve, stir until it thickens, add 
the remaining peas, a cup of cream heated to scalding, a scant 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper. A tiny sprig of 
mint is used by many. MRS. GEO. HOPKINS. 

Potato Soup. Thinly slice enough potatoes to make one 
pint, with a very little onion chopped flne, boil in one quart 



6 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

water until perfectly tender; add salt, pepper and teaspoon 
butter. If noodles are used, make them by taking yolk of one 
egg, little salt, and stiffen with flour; roll and cut fine, to look 
like macaroni. Boil fifteen minutes then add one well beaten 
egg mixed with two cups sweet milk. If too thick, add more 
water. After adding milk and egg let it come just to a bolL 

MRS. L. M. STREET. 

Toiuato Sciip. Slice one large onion fine, cook until tender 
in plenty of butter in a saucepan. Pour in one quart canned 
(or fresh) tomatoes, seas.on with salt and pepper. Put in half 
teaspoon of soda and stir until it ceases to foam. Then add 
one pint of rich sweet milk or cream, and a few rolled crackers. 
Let the mixture just get hot (not boil) and serve at once. 

MRS. L. S. FERGUSON. 

Tomato Soup. Slice two onions, fry them in butter until 
brown. Then fry two dozen tomatoes just sufficiently to heat 
them through, and put them into a stew pan with their gravy 
and the onions, adding a pinch of celery seed and a carrot cut 
up fine. Stew these gently for an hour. Add three pints of 
soup stock and stew for an hour and a half; then pulp the 
whole of the vegetables through a sieve, season with salt, black 
and cayenne pepper and serve with toasted bread cut in dice. 

MRS. ANNA CLARK. 

Tomato Soup. One quart tomatoes, one pint boiling w^ater, 
butter size of an egg, one teaspoon soda. Put all on stove to 
boil. Just before serving, stir in one quart of boiling milk and 
season with salt and pepper. MRS. G. W. WIRT. 

Veal Soup. Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of cold 
water, salt it, and add one small tablespoon raw rice. Let it 
simmer four hours, when it should be reduced half. Into the 
tureen put the yolk of one egg, mixed with a cup of cream or 
new milk. Add a small lump of butter; strain the soup inta 
this, stirring all the time. Beat it a moment at the last. 

MRS. G. S. MANN. 

Vegetable Soup. Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of 
cold water. Boil slowly (hardly above simmering) three hours, 
or until it begins to get tender, then season it with a table- 
spoon salt and half teaspoon pepper, boil it a half hour longer^ 
then add one carrot, one turnip, two tablespoons rice, one 



FISH 



large onion, one head of celery, two potatoes, one tomato. The 
vegetables to be minced in small pieces like dice. After the 
ingredients have boiled slowly one hour it is ready to serve. 

MRS. CHAS. CARPENTER. 



FISH. 



How to Dress. Cut the heads off, put in boiling water a few 
seconds, take out and put in cold water a few seconds, then 
scale with a knife. Now take a sharp knife and cut along one 
side of the backbone and slice the flesh off along the ribs. Then 
cut along the other side of the backbone and do likewise. By 
this process there will be two pieces of the flesh without any 
bones. Salt, pepper and roll in white corn meal, fry in butter, 
or lard will do. Brown one side, then turn and brown the 
other. MISS MINNIE JOHNSON. 

Steamed Fish. Never boil fish, but steam it. Put in a dish 
of some kind that you can put in your boiling kettle. Set 
three teacups in the kettle to keep the dish above water; cover 
the kettle tightly. It will steam as quickly as it will boil. Take 
the water you find in the dish with the fish for your sauce. 
This way of cooking retains all the flavor of the fish. 

MISS HATTIE S. REED. 

Codfish Balls. Pick as fine as possible a teacup nice white 
codfish, freshen over night. Put in a basin with water a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, and twa eggs, beat it thoroughly 
and heat it until it thickens, without boiling. Have some po- 
tatoes ready prepared and nicely mashed. Work the fish and 
potatoes together thoroughly, make in flat cakes and brown 
both sides. MRS. BELLE HUNTER. 

Codfish en Toast (very fine) A teacup o' freshened cod- 
fish, picked fine. Fry a sliced onion in a tablespoon of butter. 
When it has turned brown, put in the fish with water enough 
to cover it. Add half a can of tomatoes or half a dozen fresh 
ones. Cook all nearly an hour, seasoning with a little butter 
and pepper. Serve on slices of toast, hot. 

MRS. C. N. CARPENTER. 



g THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Clam Chowder. Chop fine two ounces salt pork, peel and 
slice one pint of onions and fry them together till light brown. 
Slice a quart of potatoes; when the pork and onions are brown 
put the potatoes with them. Pour into pot four quarts boiling 
water, one can tomatoes, and the juice from fifty clams, add 
one heaping teaspoon celery seed, one salt spoon each of pow- 
dered thyme, mar jorum and savory, one tablespoon .salt and 
chopped parsley. Let all boil slowly for half an hour, then 
add fifty chopped -clams. Boil half an hour longer, and serve 
with pilot biscuit. MRS. E. O. WRIGHT. 

Escalloped Oysters. Three pints of crackers, rolled fine. 
Butter a deep baking dish (granite iron is best) and into this 
rlace a layer of crackers, then oysters with salt, butter, pepper, 
and part of the liquor from oysters, then another layer of 
crackers covered with oysters in the same way. Continue un- 
til all the oysters are used, finishing with a thin layer of 
crackers. Pour over the remaining liquor; cover all with sweet 
milk (new milk preferred). Bake twenty minutes, refill with 
milk and brown. MRS. G. W. BEMIS. 

Escalloped Oysters. Put a layer of rolled crackers in an 
oval dish, then a layer of oysters, lay on small pieces of butter 
and dredge with salt and pepper, moisten well with milk (or 
with equal parts of milk and water). Add another layer of 
crackers, oysters, and butter, dredge and moisten as before. 
Continue these alternate layers until the dish is nearly full. 
Cover with thin layer of crackers and butter. If dish holds 
two or more quarts it will require about two hours to bake. 

MRS. JOSEPH BOYER. 

Fried Oysters. Dip the oysters in beaten egg and then in 
rolled crackers highly seasoned with salt aand pepper. Fry in 
deep lard like doughnuts. It is best to use. a wire basket. 

MISS HALLIE POST 

Creiimed Oyster;--. To one quart of oysters use one pint of 
cream. Put the cream over the fire in a double boiler, mix a 
generous tablespoon of flour with a little cold milk and stir in- 
to the cream when it is boiling. Season with salt, a little cay- 
enne pepper, and a teaspoonful of onion juice. Let the oysters 
come to a boil in their own liquor. Drain off all the liquor 
and turn the oysters into the cream mixture. Have ready on 



FISH 



a hot platter square pieces of toast well buttered, and turn the 
mixture over them. Serve at once. 

MRS. FLOY McCONAUGHY. 

Oyster Pie. Tut a layer of oysters in a pan, then a layer 
of raw potatoes sliced thin as possible; dredge a little flour 
over this and a few pieces of butter, then another layer of 
oysters, potatoes, butter and so on until all of a quart of oys- 
ters are used. Pour on the liquor, make a light crust, put on 
the top and bake. MRS. E. O'. WRIGHT. 

Raw Oysters. In serving them without the shells the most 
attractive way is in a dish of ice, made by freezing water in 
a tin form shaped like a salad bowl, or in a iDlock of ice in 
which a cavity has been made with a hot flat iron. They should 
first be well drained in a colander, sprinkled with plenty of 
pepper and salt, and placed on the ice. Let remain in a cool 
place for half an hour or until time of serving. A simpler and 
equally delicious way is to drain well, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, place the dish on ice or in a dish of cold water half an 
Lour before serving, adding bits of ice. Serve with horse ra- 
dish, chilli sauce, slices of lemon, or simply vinegar. 

MRS. J. M. DAVIDSON. 

Royal Oyster Stew. Take the liquor when it comes to a 
boil, skim and season with butter and pepper, add oysters, lei 
come to a boil only. Season with salt and serve. 

MRS. AMANDA J. KENNEDY. 

Oyster Stew. Take one quart fresh oysters, pour the liquor 
into a stew pan; take equal parts of thejiquor and sweet milk, 
add two large tablespoons butter, pepper and salt to taste. Let 
boil, add oysters, then let come to a boil only. Serve at once. 

MRS. JESSE LOVE. 

Baked Salmon. One small can salmon, remove bones and 
chop fine, four hard boiled eggs chopped fine, eight soda crack- 
er rolled fine, two tablespoons melted butter, salt and pepper 
to taste, mix thoroughly. Add warm water enough to soften 
and bake twenty minutes. 

MRS. T. E. SEDGWICK. 

Salmon With Eggs. Cover a platter with perfect leaves of 
curled lettuce, the stems for the center. Pour off the oil from 
a can of salmon, lay the fish carefully in the center of the 



10 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

platter, season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Boil nine 
eggs hard, remove the shell, cut each egg in three slices into 
a crock; stir salt, pepper, a tablespoon mustard and one table- 
spoon vinegar together, pour over the eggs. Place them around 
the salmon on the platter. MRS. BELLE HARRIS. 

Baked Salmon. One can salmon, two eggs, one tablespoon 
melted butter, one cup bread crumbs or crackers, pepper, salt, 
and minced cucumber pickles. Pick the fish to pieces, then 
work in the butter, seasoning, eggs and crumbs and a little 
hot water. Put in a buttered bowl, cover tightly and set in a 
pan of boiling water. Cook in a hot oven one hour. Let cool 
and slice off. MRS. H. M. DETRICK. 

Escalloped Salmon. One can salmon, drained from the 
liquor, two cups finely rolled crackers, half cup butter in small 
bits, one level tablespoon salt; enough milk or cream to moist- 
en slightly. Arrange the salmon and crackers in layers in a 
well buttered baking dish, seasoning with the butter and salt 
as you proceed; pour the milk on last; roll the last half cup 
of crackers very fine and mix with melted butter for the top 
lajer. This will cause it to brown nicely. Bake in a hot oven 
cne hour, covered the first half hour. 

MRS. FLOY McCCNAUGHY. 



MEATS. 



Meat Balls. One pound beefsteak chopped fine, one egg, 
two tablespoons butter, salt and pepper, half cup sweet milk, 
one cup rolled cracker crumbs. Roll into balls and fry. 

MRS. F. E. FENDER. 

Cold boiled Meat. Cut in thin slices cold beef or any cold 
meat; beat one egg, dip meat in egg, then in flour, fry in but- 
ter a light brown. Serve hot. MRS. MAxvY PREWITT. 

Stuffed BeefsteaJi. Pound well a round steak, season with 
salt and pepper, then spread with a nice dressing, roll up and 
tie closely with twine, put in a kettle with a quart of boiling 
water, boil slowly one hour, take out and place in a dripping 
pan, adding water in which it was boiled, basting frequently 



MEATS 11 

until a nice brown, or it may be put at once into the dripping 
pan, omittijig the boiling process. Skewer a couple of slices 
salt pork on top, add a very little water, baste frequently, and 
if it cooks too rapidly cover with dripping pan. 

MRS. H. M. DETRICK. 

A Nice Little Dish of Beef. Mince cold roast beef, fat and 
lean, very line; add chopped onion, pepper salt and a little good 
gravy; fill scallop shells two parts full, and fill them up with 
potatoes mashed smooth with cream; put a bit of butter on the 
lop and set them in an oven to brown. 

MRS. MARY O. BROOKS. 

Pi'essed Beef. Procure a shank of beef, boil until the meat 
slips from the bones, pick meat into small bits, being careful 
to remove all fat and gristle; return to kettle, season with salt, 
pepper and celery seed, if liked; stew a few moments in the 
broth and turn into an earthen dish. When quite cold slice 
and serve. MRS. G. W. SHRECK. 

Mock Duck. Spread a dressing, as for turkey, on a thick 
round of beefsteak; season, roll up, tie or sew, and roast. Baste 
often and serve with gravy. • MRS. W. L. LEE. 

Roast Beef. Put roast in roaster, season with salt and pep- 
per and dust over quite thickly with flour. Put in hot oven 
and brown quickly. When brown add hot water and proceed 
as with any roast. MRS. N. V. HARLAN. 

Roast Beef. Select a rib piece with bones removed. Skewer 
the meat, putting small piece of suet in center. Place in pan 
without water, into very hot oven for twenty minutes, that the 
meat may sear. Then add a half cup hot water, pepper and salt 
Baste frequently. Allow twenty minutes to each pound of 
meat. If meat is tough the juice of a lemon poured over the 
meat before roastihg will make it tender. 

MRS. D. J. COLLING. 

Yorkshire Pudding for Roast Beef. One pint milk, three 
eggs, three cups fiour and a pinch of salt. Half an hour before 
the roast is done turn into a small pan part of the gravy and 
pour the pudding into it. Bake one-half hour. Serve with 
the roast like vegetables. MRS. W. A. HARRISON. 

Meat with Tomato Sauce. Fry any kind of meat, then make 
a sauce as follows: One cup strained tomato juice, put on fire 



12 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

and when it boils add salt, pepper and bu.ter to taste. TliicRen 
with teaspoon flour and pour over meat while warm, 

MRS. I. N. BAGNELL. 

Liver aiitl Bacon. Slice liver half an inch thick, cover with 
boiling water, let stand three minutes. Cut thin slices of ba- 
con, as many as slices of liver, fry a light brown, put on a 
platter and keep hot. Drain liver, salt and roll in flour, fry 
in the same pan the bacon was fried in. Cook slowly until 
Aell done. Serve hot with a slice of bacon on each piece of 
liver. MRS. JAY SERVISS. 

Beef Loaf. Three pounds round steak chopped flne, one and 
one-half dozen square crackers, rolled fine, two eggs, one cup 
milk or water, butter the size of walnut, scant tablespoon 
ground pepper, two even tablespoons of salt. Mix all togeth- 
er well, put in basin and steam two hours. Take from steamer, 
turn a plate over it, set an iron on it until it is cold, then it is 
ready to serve. MRS. B. KING. 

Beef Loaf. Two pounds round steak ground fine, two eggs, 
two teaspoons salt, one teaspoon pepper, one cup cracker 
crumbs, one and one-half cups sweet milk. Mix well and strew 
the top with bits of buttef. Bake covered, one and one-half 
hours. MRS. B. F. FELLMAN. 

Beef Loaf. Three and one-half pounds of meat, chopped 
fine, sAi or eight small crackers rolled fine, two eggs, butter 
the size of an egg, one tablespoon each of salt and pepper, one 
slice fat pork or a little more butter. Work all together in the 
form of a loaf and bake two hours. MRS. F. C. POWERS. 

Beef Loaf. Three and one-half pounds of beef chopped fine, 
twelve soda crackers rolled fine, two cups sweet milk, ttvo eggs 
two teaspoons pepper one tablespoon salt, half a nutmeg. Bake, 
two hours. MRS. L. A. HAMILTON. 

Meat Loaf. Chop fine one cupful of roasted or boiled beef;, 
add one cup fine bread crumbs and two eggs; season with pep- 
per and salt, and very little sage or onion if liked; mix it thor- 
oughly, put in a well greased baking powder can and bake half 
an hour. Slice thin and serve. MRS. CELESTE TOWNSEND. 

Beef Roll. Five pounds lean beef boiled very tender andl 
chopped fine. Two pig's feet (including the legs cut off just 



MEATS ly 

above the knees where they join the hams), boiled, boned and 
chopped fine. Mix the beef with the porli: and season with a 
generous supply of salt and pepper. Let the liquor of each 
boil down until they together would equal two or three pints; 
then strain and set away to cool. When cold skim off the 
grease, 'heat and thoroughly mix with the chopped meat. Put 
into mold and let stand until very cold, but do not press. The 
beef and pork may be boiled together if desired. 

MRS. HELEN DIBBLE. 

Beef RoIL Three pounds chopped beef, one dozen crackers 
rolled fine, one cup milk, two eggs, season with butter, salt and 
pepper. Steam two hours. MRS. ETTA HARRISON. 

Veal Loaf. Chop finely together three pounds lean veal and 
three-fourths pound salt pork. Roll a dozen crackers, put half 
of them in the veal with two eggs, season with pepper and a lit- 
tle salt if needed; mix altogether and make into a solid form; 
then take the crackers that are left and spread smoothly over 
thk^ outside. Bake one hour and slice cold. 

MRS. H. M. DETRICK. 

Veal Loaf. Three pounds raw veal chopped very fine with a 
small piece of salt pork, three eggs, one cnopped onion (if pre- 
ferred), four pounded crackers (soda), one teaspoon pepper, 
one. tablespoon salt. If pork is not used put in a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. Mix all well together, form in shape of 
loaf and bake for two or two and one-half hours. 

MRS. J. A. DIEFFENBACHER. 

Veal Loaf. Three and one-half pounds minced veal (the leg 
is best for this purpose), three eggs well beaten, one table- 
spoon black pepper, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon grated 
nutmeg, four rolled crackers, one tablespoon cream, butter the 
size of an egg. Mix these together and make into loaf, roast 
and baste like other meats. Beef may be used in place of veal 
by adding one-quarter pound salt pork minced fine. 

FLORENCE BURTON. 

Cream Gravy. Pour into skillet where one pound of cured 
ham meat has been fried, one-half cup sweet cream and two- 
thirds cup new milk and .boil. Add salt to taste. 

MRS. G. W. SHRECK. 



14 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Stuffed Heart. One beef heart; soak over night in salt and 
water, boil two hours, then remove and stuff with dressing, 
same as for chicken. Bake for three quarters of an hour. Make 
a nice gravy and serve. MRS. F. E. FENDER. 

Boiled Ham. Wash well the ham in cold water; to do this 
thoroughly you should use a small scrub brush. Put it into 
a boiler nearly filled with cold water, add a blade of mace, six 
cloves and a bay leaf. Place it over a slow fire, that it may 
heat gradually (it should not come to a boil for at least two 
hours), then skim carefully and simmer gently for fifteen min- 
utes for every pound from the time it begins to simmer. When 
done allow it to cool in the liquor in which it was boiled, then 
remove the rind carefully without cutting the fat. Brush it over 
with a beaten egg and sprinkle with dry bread crumbs. Place 
in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes to brown. Serve wiih 
parsley. Ornament the shank bone with a paper frill. 

MRS. J. C. REDDING. 

Baked Ham. Make a paste of fiour and water, roll about 
one-half inch thick, place the ham in the paste and cover all 
over with the paste. If the ham is salt it should be soaked ov- 
er night and then carefully dried before putting into the paste. 
If sugar cured no soaking is required. A ham weighing twelve 
pounds will need about five hours to bake. No basting neces- 
sary. MRS. J. F. FERGUSON. 

Hash. Cold meat of any kind will do, but corned beef is 
best. Always remove all surplus fat a'nd gristle, iseason with 
salt and pepper, and to one-third of meat add two-thirds pota- 
toes and one onion chopped fine,' place in pan and almost cover 
with boiling water, cook slowly until water is boiled away. Put 
in level tablespoon butter and serve at once. Do not stir while 
cooking. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 

Muttonettes. Cut from a leg of mutton slices about half an 
inch thick, on each slice lay a spoonful of- stuffing made with 
bread crumbs, beaten egg, butter, salt, pepper and sage. Roll 
up the slices, pinning with little skewers (small wooden tooth 
picks) to keep the dressing in. Put a little butter and water 
in a baking pan with the muttonettes and cook in a hot oven 
three quarters of an hour. Baste often; when done thicken 
the gravy, pour over the meat, garnish with parsley and serve 
on hot platter. MRS. CHAS. CARPENTER. 



MEATS 15^^ 

Cottage Meat Pie. Take scraps of any kind of meat; chop 
into small pieces with onion; moisten with gravy and tomato 
broth. Spread over with thick layer mashed potatoes and bake 
brown in quick oven. MRS. J. C. KECKLEY. 

Chopii'ed Roast. Two pounds beef, one pound pork, one 
pound veal, two slices bread, two eggs, one small onion, one 
teaspoon pepper, a little parsley. Chop the meat, add the other 
ingredients, form into a loaf and bake. MRS. O. LANG. 

Pot Roast. Put meat in kettle and pour on boiling water 
enough to cover, salt, pepper and cover with close-fitting lid. 
Cook fully three hours. As the water boils away add more 
from time to time to prevent burning, so that when the meat 
is tender the water may be all boiled away. The fat will allow 
the meat to brown without burning. Brown over a slow fire. 
Make gravy of the drippings. Meat cooked in this way will 
always be tender and juicy. MRS. D. Y. HEISLAR. 

Breakfast Sausage for Four. One and one-half pounds pork 
chops, remove bones and fat. Put remainder of meat through 
meat grinder, season with pepper and salt and a very little 
sage and make into balls. While preparing meat put bones 
and fat into skillet and fry. After meat is prepared, remove 
bones and fat from skillet and fry meat in the hot grease to a 
crisp brown. Lift the sausage cakes from the grease and put 
one heaping tablespoon flour into the grease to form thick 
gravy, with one pint hot water. When ready to serve place 
on a warm platter, pour gravy over sausage balls. 

MRS. G. B. FRANCE. 

Hamburg Steak. Round steak (ground) two pounds, one 
egg, one tablespoon cream, salt and pepper, just a little flour; 
mix and make into flat patties; fry in butter. 

MRS. W. L. MORGAN. 

Brazilian Stew. Two pounds veal cut in small pieces, one- 
half pound salt pork slicea thin, four quarts water, three table- 
spoons vinegar. Boil one hour, skim thoroughly. After skim- 
ming add one chopped onion and two chopped turnips, two tea- 
spoons salt, one quarter teaspoon pepper, then place in a tin 
pan, put in oven, and stew slowly two hours. Delicious. 

MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

An Excellent Stew, Fry a round steak brown on both sides 
in butter, but do not let it cook through. Add to it one chop- 



16 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

ped onion, half a can tomatoes, salt, pepper and a pint of wa- 
ter. Have the steak well covered with the vegetables. Cover 
closely and set it where it will simmer for two hours. 

MRS FLOY McCONAUGHY. 

To Salt Eeef or Pork. To one hundred pounds meat take 
eight pounds salt, four pounds brown sugar, three ounces salt- 
peter, one ounce, of soda and six gallons of water. Heat to 
boiling, skim, and when cool pour over meat. In six weeks 
take out hams, dry and smoke. For dried beef two weeks is 
long enough in brine. If a white scum forms pour off the 
brine, boil and skim, then add more salt ana water. Pour over 
cold. MRS. G. P. CHESSMAN. 

Cured Meat. First take, the cask in which the meat is to 
be cured and smoke it for one-half hour over a slow fire made 
of walnut chips. Cover the bottom with course salt. The 
meat should not be put down for at least two days after kil- 
ling, during which time it should be slightly sprinkled with 
saltpeter, which removes all the surface blood, etc., leaving the 
meat fresh and clean. Then make a mixture of one cup brown 
sugar, one pint molasses, one-half ounce saltpeter, two table- 
spoons black pepper, one tablespoon cloves, stir well. Pack 
meat in cask, rind down (if hams), shanks to center, covering 
each tier, first with mixture half inch thick, then sprinkle 
slightly with salt, being careful not to get on too much. Allow 
it to remain in the cask five or six days, then remove 
and apply new mixture. Let it lie four or five weeks, then 
r-aint with liquid smoke. When this operation is performed 
it is sewed up in bags and hung up (if hams) with shanks 
downward. A dry, cool attic chamber is the best place to keep 
it. Meat thus prepared has an excellent flavor. 

MRS. J. C. REDDING. 

To Protect Meat From Flies. Put in sacks, with enough 
straw around it so the flies cannot reach through. Three- 
fourths of a yard of yard-wide muslin is the right size for the 
sack. Put a litte straw in the bottom, then put in the ham 
and pack straw in all around it, tie it tightly and hang in a cool 
dry place. Be sure the straw is all around the meat so the flies 
cannot reach throughto deposit the eggs. (The sacking must 
be done early in the season before flies appear.) Muslin lets 
the air in and is much better than paper. 

MRS, ARTHUR WELLMAN. 



POULTRY 17 

POULTRY. 



Chicken Pie. Cut a chicken in small pieces and stew until 
tender, adding more water as it boils away that chicken will 
be covered with water when done. Season well with butter, 
salt and pepper, thicken the gravy with flour made smooth with 
milk, adding the beaten yolk of one egg. Place a cup upside 
down in middle of deep baking dish (for the gravy will seep 
i;p into the cup instead of wasting itself in the oven;) put Uie 
chicken and gravy in dish and cover with rich biscuit dough. 
Bake slowly. MRS. D. C. BELL. 

To Cook An Old Chicken. Dress, joint, wash, put in hot 
water and boil until tender. A small pinch of soda improves 
it if put in when boiling. When tender take up and drain: 
beat two eggs, dip the pieces in this batter, salt and pepper 
and put in hot lard and fry until brown, or put in a dripping 
pan and brown in oven. MRS. C. E. SPELLMAN. 

Fried Chicken. Separate a young chicken at the joints, let 
lie in salt water one hour. Put in skillet one heaping table- 
spoon each of lard and butter. When this is hot take, each 
piece of chicken, v>ipe dry, season with pepper and drelge 
with flour; fry until well done, which takes about forty-flve 
minutes. MRS. J. S. KNOTT. 

Curried Chicken or VeaL One chicken weighing three 
pounds three fourths cup butter, two large onions, one heaping 
tablespoon curry pow^der, one pint of canned tomatoes, one 
cup milk, salt and a little pinch of cayenne pepper. Put but- 
ter and onions, cut fine, on to cook, stir until brown, then put 
in chicken, cut in small pieces, the curry, tomatoes, salt and 
pepper; stir well together, cover tightly and let simmer until 
chicken is well done, stirring occasionally. Then add the milk, 
let boil up once and serve with boiled rice. Boil the rice and 
garnish the platter with it, putting the chicken in center, 

MRS. W. M. WIDEXER. 

Fried Spring Chicken. Two young chickens, two eggs, w^ell 
beaten; salt and pepper the chicken, dip each piece into the 
egg, then roll in cracker dust; put two tablespoons butter into 
the skillet, let it heat, then lay in chicken, set it in the oven 
and cover with tight lid. Cook slowly until the under side be- 



18 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

comes a light brown, then turn and brown the other side. If 
necessary when cooking add more butter. When done take up 
snd set it away to keep warm. Mix tablespoon sifted flour in 
frying pan with a teaspoon butter, stir until smooth, add cup 
of rich milk, let come to a boil and season with chopped pars- 
ley, pepper and salt and. serve very hot with the chicken. 

I\mS. J. C. REDDING. 

Pressed Chicken. Stew slowly two chickens cut up small, 
until meat drops from bones, then take out and chop fine. Let 
liquor boil down to a cupful. Add to it butter size of an egg, 
teaspoon pepper, little allspice and beaten egg; stir through, 
the meat, slice hard boiled egg, lay in the mold and press in 
meat. When served garnish with celery tops or sprigs of pars- 
ley. MRS. N. SOUTHWORTH. 

Pressed Chicken or Beef. Stew a chicken until the meat 
leaves the bones, remove the bones and chop the meat together 
with three or four boiled eggs, return to the kettle with a very 
little of the broth free from fat, salt and pepper to taste and 
stir well. Turn into a mould and put a plate on top the vessel 
you use to press it in and place a heavy weight on the plate. 
When cold turn from the mold and cut down in even slices. 
Beef can be prepared in the same manner and is nice without 
eggs. MRS. CELESTE TOWNSEND. 

PiesEed Chicken. One chicken, one pound lean veal boiled 
until tender. Remove bones and chop very fine; four hard 
boiled eggs also chopped fine. Add three teacups of the gravy 
and one pint powdered crackers. Season with salt and pepper, 
mix well, turn into a square mold and let stand twelve hours 
under a heavy weight. MRS. G. W. POST. 

Pressed Chicken. Boil two chickens in enough water to 
keep from burning, as it is only necessary to have about one 
cupful of broth left. Boil u^ntil tender. Take all the meat 
from the bones, throwing away the skin; chop the meat, sea- 
son with salt (a generous supply) and pepper, add the liquor 
in which it was boiled. When well mixed set away in a mold 
or pan with a heavy weight on top. When cold cut in slices 
and serve. A piece of salt pork boiled with chicken improves its 
flavor, as also celery cut fine and mixed with it. 

MRS. W. D. MEAD, Jr. 



POULTRY 19 

Pressed Chicken. Steam the chicken until it can be shred- 
cd, then cook very tender and have left a pint of rich broth; 
two tablespoons gelatine soaked then stir inio the broth and 
six hard boiled eggs. Line a mold alternately with peeled lem- 
ons and sliced eggs. Have the chicken seasoned and pack 
half of it in the mold, slice some eggs, then chicken to the top, 
pour over the gelatine and set in a cool place. Garnish the 
dish to suit taste. Is better made the night before wanted. 

MRS. C. A. McCLOUD. 

Chicken Pie. Stew chicken until it begins to get tender, 
then add enough thickening to make a thin gravy and season 
to suit taste. Prepare potatoes same as to boil for mashed 
potatoes. Place both in a roaster and cover with pastry, made 
same as rich pie crust and rolled to about twice the thickness 
of pie crust. Place in oven and bake slow^ly for about one hour 
until a crisp brown crust has been obtained. Baste frequent- 
ly and have plenty of gravy, so the pie is not dry when served. 

MRS. D. L. VAN FLEET. 

Chicken Pie. (boneless.) Prepare chicken, place over fire 
and stew until the meat may be removed from bones. Make 
very rich biscuit dough, roll out quite thin and put in baking 
pan. Place meat in the pie, pouring liquor over the meat, add 
small pieces of butter if liquor is not rich. Sprinkle small 
handful flour over this, roll out cover, perforate and place over 
pie. Bake until rich brov/n on top. MRS. W. PL READER. 

Chicken Pie. Cut up two young chickens, place in hot wa- 
ter enough to cover (as it boils away add more so as to have 
enough for the pie and for gravy to serve with it), boil until 
tender; line the sides of a four or six quart pan with a rich 
baking powder or soda biscuit dough quarter of an inch thick; 
put in part of the chicken, season with salt, pepper and buiter, 
lay in a few thin strips or square of dough, add rest of chick- 
en and season as before; season liquor in which chickens were 
boiled with butter, salt and pepper, add a part of it to the pie, 
cover w'ith crust quarter of an inch thick with a hole in the 
center the size of a tin cup. Keep adding the chicken liquor 
as needed, since the fault of most chicken pies is that they are 
too dry. There can scarcely be too much gravy. Bake one 
hour in moderate oven. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 



20 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Chicken Pot Pie. Cut and joint a large chicken, cover wa- 
ter and let boil gently until tender. Take five or six moder- 
ately sized potatoes, cut in pieces drop in with the chicken 
and cook about half an hour. Have ready a nice light biscuit 
dough rolled moderately thin and cut in squares, drop in with 
chicken and potatoes and cook twenty minutes (or half an 
hour) in plenty of gravy, adding more water if necessary. 
Serve immediately. MRS. JAMES McCONAUGHY. 

Chicken and Oyster Pie. Cook chicken until it strips from 
bones, or cook in stock sauce. A few oysters may be added to 
top of pie. Crust for pie: Two cups pastry flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, two teaspoons baking powder. Measure generous- 
ly, sift together, and add two teaspoons shortening, rubbing it 
in with fingers; beat one egg very light, add to it three-fourths 
cup milk and blend to other ingredients with fork. Chicken 
end sauce should be at boiling point when crust is put on. 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. For sauce use three table- 
spoons each of butter and flour and stocks from bones of 
chicken. Have plenty of sauce. Mix sauce and chicken and 
boil. MISS BIRDIE WHITCOMB. 

Individual Chicken Pies. Take chicken and cook until ten- 
der, take out the bones readily. Make a rich gravy. Make 
good sized baking powder biscuits, split and put chicken and 
gravy between. , MRS. R. V. HUNTER, 

Koast Turkey with Oyster dressing. Dress and rub the tur- 
key inside and out with salt and pepper and steam two hours. 
Make a dressing of one stale loaf of bread; take off the brown 
crust and soften by placing in a pan and pouring on boiling 
water, draining immediately and covering closely. Add one- 
half pound of butter and teaspoon each of salt and pepper. 
Drain off the liquor from one quart of oysters, bring to a boil, 
skim and pour over the bread. Add two eggs, and if still too 
dry add a little sweet milk. Fill the turkey alternately with 
dressing and oysters, being careful not to break oysters, and 
roast until a nice brown. MRS. G. F. BURR, 

Escalloped Chicken. Boil two chickens and chop as for sa- 
lad. Take crushed crackers or bread crumbs or both, buttej* 
a deep baking dish or pan, cover the bottom with crumbs, put 
in a layer of chicken with salt, pepper and bits of butter, then 
another layer of crumbs and so on until the dish is full, finish- 



POULTRY 21 

ing with crumbs covered with bits of butter. Pour over the 
v.hole the liquor in which the chicken was boiled, place in hot 
oven and bake three-quarters of an hour. To prevent brown- 
ing too much cover with a tin or sheet iron lid. Serve in dish 
in which it was baked. MRS. A. J. RYAN. 

Roast Chicken with Oysters. Dressing: prepare chicken 
for oven, rubbing well with salt, place in baking pan. Take 
bread crumbs or crackers, place in pan, pour boiling water ov- 
er them, let stand until steamed through (placing cover over 
pan) add a little salt, pepper and small pieces of butter, if not 
rich enough. Take one pint of oysters and pour oysters and 
liquor on dressing. If dressing is to stiff, add water. Stuff 
chicken, rub with flour and butter, place in oven and baste 
frequently. MRS. W. H. READER. 

Roast Wild Duck. Soak the birds over night in salt water 
or for two hours in soda water. Rinse thoroughly in clean 
water, dry with a napkin, tie a slice of bacon over the breast 
of each bird, season with salt and pepper and bake thirty 
minutes in a very hot oven, basting frequently. 

MRS. W. A. HARRISON. 

Escalloped Turkey. Moisten bread crumbs with a little 
milk butter a dish and put in it a layer of crumbs, then a layer 
of chopped (not very fine) cold turkey, season with salt and 
pepper; then a layer of crumbs, and so on until the pan is full. 
If any gravy or dressing has been left, add it. Make a thick- 
ening of one or two eggs, half cup milk and quarter cup butter 
Bud bread crumbs; season and spread over top. Cover with 
a pan, bake half an hour, then remove pan and let brown. 
Lamb, beef or veal can be used in a similar manner. 

MRS. IDALETTE WOODS. 

Roast Turkey. A year old is considered best. After dress- 
ing, salt and pepper the inside (if prepared the day before it 
will all be better seasoned). For dressing use bread previous- 
ly dried in oven and rolled fine, stir into the bread salt and pep- 
per to taste, and sage if liked, and use melted butter sufficient 
to bind all together. Salt outside, put two cups water in drip- 
ping pan with turkey. After it begins to brown take a white 
cloth, double it, wring out of water and cover turkey with it; 
baste frequently over cloth and do not let cloth scorch; keep 
an even fire. Stew giblets; when done, chap fine and use this, 
stew in gravy. MRS. D. C. BELL. 



22 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

VEGETABLES. 



Asparagus on Toast. Boil the asparagus until tender, 
drain and make a dressing of two tablespoons flour and a pint 
of sweet milk, pour over the asparagus and let come to a boil 
add butter the size of an egg. Have ready some bread, nicely 
toasted, and pour the asparagus over. Serve while hot. 

MRS. GEO. F. BURR. 

Baked Beans. Parboil two quarts of beans; when ready 
add half a pound fat and lean salt pork; put the beans in an 
earthen dish, with the pork in center; place them in a moder- 
ate oven to bake twenty-four hours, keeping them moistened 
with hot water. A tablespoon molasses may 5>e added if pre- 
ferred. When boiling add a pinch of soda. 

MRS. W. A. CARPENTER. 

Yankee Pork jiiicl Beans. Pick over carefully a quart of 
beans and let them soak over night; in the morning wash and 
drain in another vv^ater; put on to boil in cold water with halt 
a teaspoon soda; boil about thirty minutes; (when done the 
skin of a bean will crack if taken out and blown upon), drain, 
and put in an earthen pot, first a slice of pork, and then the 
beans, with two or three tablespoons molasses. When the 
beans are in the pot put in the center half to three-quarters 
of a pound well washed salt pork, with the rind scored in slic- 
es or squares and uppermost; season with pepper and salt if 
needed. Cover all with hot water and bake nine hours in a 
moderate oven, adding hot water as needed. They cannot be 
baked too long. Keep covered, so they will not burn on the 
top, but remove Ihe cover before serving long enough to brown 
the beans and crisp the pork. MRS. AMANDA J. KENNEDY. 

Stiing Beans. Cover with boiling water, put in salt pork in 
proportion to a quarter of a pound of pork to a quart of beans. 
Boil for four hours. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 

Celery Stew. Take four stalks of celery or as many as is 
needed and cut in short pieces. Boil in sweet milk till tender. 
Add some cream and thickening. Season with salt and pepper. 
Serve hot. MISS EDITH JOHNSON. 

Canned Corn and Tomato. Cut green corn from the cob. 



VEGETABLES 2a 

cook twenty minutes, adding a little water and stirring often. 
Cook the tomatoes, previously peeled and sliced, in a separate 
kettle five minutes and then add them to the corn in the pro- 
portion of one-third corn to two-thirds tomatoes (some take 
equal parts of each). Mix well and let boil up once, then can 
immediately in tin or glass MRS. MARGARET WASHBURN. 

Escalloped Corn. Butter a dish, put in a layer of rolled 
crackers, then a layer of corn well seasoned with butter, salt 
and pepper. Fill the dish in this manner until one can of corn. 
is used, then nearly cover the whole with rich mlik and bake. 

MRS. E. A. WARNER. 

Three Ways of Cooking Mushrooms. Cut the stems off the 
mushrooms unless very small; wash and peel, let stand in salt 
water for about fifteen minutes, then drain the water off thor- 
oughly; dredge with flour and fry in butter until a nice brown. 
Serve hot. Another nice way is to prepare the mushrooms as 
above, then stew about fifteen minutes, season with salt and 
pepper, a generous amount of butter, and serve hot on toast. 
Beefsteak with mushrooms may be cooked as follows: prepare 
mushrooms the same as for first recipe. Fry the steak, re- 
move from skillet, then pour the mushrooms into the hot fry- 
ings; let remain for a few minutes, constantly turning them 
about until nicely browned, then place on the hot steak and 
serve at once. If steak is broiled, brown mushrooms in hot 
butter. Canned mushrooms can be used in place of fresh ones, 
but before cocking drain off all the water and season. 

MRS. O. E. BARTLIT. 

Mushrocm Gravy. Put a pint of peeled mushrooms into a 
small saucepan with a few slices of fat bacon or a lump of but- 
ter; brown until they stick to the bottom, but be careful not 
to scorch; stir in a tablespoon flour, add a pint of broth and let 
simmer five minutes. A little lemon juice may be added if 
desired. MRS. LEE DEVER. 

Creamed Onicn«. Take one dozen onions about the same 
size, peel, boil ien minutes, pour off this water, again add boil- 
ing water, boil a few minutes and drain a secouJ time, pour 
on boiling water, add salt and boil until tender; drain in a 
colander, pour over a bowl of cream, season with butter, salt 
and pepper; cook a few minutce. MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 



24 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Smothered Onions. Put a piece of butter in skillet to heat 
add half a dozen medium sized onions, sliced. Season with 
a level teaspoon sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Cover close- 
ly and cook until done, stirring frequently. 

MRS. E. Y. LAWRENCE. Wallace, Neb. 

Parsnips. Scrape the parsnips and boil in salt water till ten- 
der, drain, place in dripping pan, cover with a generous supply 
of butter little sugar and pinch of pepper. Then brown in oven. 

MRS. JOHN MAPPS. 

Green Peas. Wash lightly one quart of green peas and put 
in boiling water enough to cover; boil twenty minutes. Add 
pepper, salt to taste, and more water if needed to prevent burn- 
ing, one heaping tablespoon butter rubbed into one of flour, 
two tablespoons sweet cream. Stir well, let come to a boil. 

MRS. J. LOVE. 

Stewed Pie Plant. (Very fine). Cut up the pie plant with- 
out peeling and cover with boiling water. Let stand a few min- 
utes, then drain and add sugar, but no water and stew slowly. 
MRS. E. Y. LAWRENCE, (Wallace). 

Potatoes. (Baked). Use cold boiled potatoes chopped fine, 
or cold mashed potatoes. Place a layer of potatoes in baking 
tin and sprinkle well with pepper, salt and butter, then add 
another layer of potatoes and more seasoning, continuing this 
until the tin is filled about three inches deep. Scatter grated 
cheese over the top, cover with sweet milk and bake for one 
hour in slow oven. MISS KATE TYLER. 

Baked Mashed Potatoes. Put seasoned mashed potatoes 
into teacups. Let stand an hour before time to bake, then 
turn out carefully to prevent breaking, and place in a buttered 
baking pan. On each little mold put a dash of salt, pepper 
and a small lump butter. Bake in an oven until brown. 

MRS. MAUD HIGBY. 

Breakfast Potatoes. Peal, cut in very thin slices into a 
little boiling water, so little that it will be evaporated when 
they are cooked. Add salt to taste, some cream or a very 
little milk and a bit of butter. A little practice will make 
this a favorite dish in any family. They must be stirred oc- 
casionally while cooking. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 



VEGETABLES 25 

Browned Potatoes with a Roast. Boil medium sized pota- 
toes until partly done, then arrange them in the roasting pan 
around the meat; baste them with the drippings until nicely- 
browned. Serve them hot with the meat. 

MRS. E. D. MARSELLUS. 

Potato Croquets. Mashed potatoes seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and onions, form into balls size of large marbles, roll 
in egg, then in cracker crumbs, fry like doughnuts. Cold po- 
tatoes can be used, but must be rolled just before frying, to 
prevent bursting. MRS. H. N. BELL, (Aurora, Neb.) 

Fried Potatoes. Pare and cut into thin slices six large po- 
tatoes, season with salt, pepper, and sprinkle with a little 
fiour; put into a skillet one-half cup lard and tablespoon but- 
ter; let it be boiling hot, put in the potatoes, cover closely, 
stirring occasionally while cooking. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 

Saratoga Chips. Peal the potatoes and cut into thin 
slices as evenly as possible, and drop into ice water. Put a 
few at a time into a towel to dry, and then drop them into 
boiling lard. Stir them occasionally, and when a light brown 
take them out with a skimmer and sprinkle lard over them 
while hot. MRS. E. D. MARSELLUS. 

Saratoga Stewed Potatoes. Boil about six good sized po- 
tatoes; let them stand on ice until cold, chop up fine into 
small squares; season with salt and pepper and warm in but- 
ter the size of an egg over a fire, about five or ten minutes, 
simmerirg slowly so as not to burn or brown; pour over a 
pint of cream and watch, carefully, that they cook slowly for 
a few minutes. Serve hot, and drop into the center a large 
piece of butter. Do not stir. MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

Escalloped Potatoes. Butter an earthen dish. Put in a 
layer of sliced potatoes and season with butter, salt and pep- 
per, then a layer of rolled crackers or flour. Fill the dish in 
this manner. Pour over all milk enough to cover and bake 
until thoroughly done. MRS. EDWARD WARNER. 

Creamed Sweet Potatoes. Boil the potatoes until thorough- 
ly cooked, then drain off the water. Make a thickening of 
cream or milk, flour, butter, salt and a little sugar: pour over 
potatoes and let boil until it thickens. 

MRS. JAMES McCCNAUGHY. 



26 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Warm Slaw The best part of a cabbage sliced fine. Take 
two eggs well beaten, one cup vinegar, one cup sweet cream; 
put the vinegar on the stove and when boiling hot stir in the 
cream and eggs; press down with a plate. Add a little salt 
and butter. MRS. LISSIE ROBERTS NEWMAN. 

Ripe Tomatoes. (Fried.) Take three or four good sized 
solid ripe tomatoes, slice about one half inch thick. Have 
ready two eggs beaten and seasoned highly with salt and pep- 
per, also have ready cracker crumbs. Dip the slices in the 
egg, sprinkle on each side a little fine sage, then dip in crack- 
er crumbs, same as you would for fried oysters. Have, ready 
in a spider some hot lard, fry slowly to a nice brown, about 
fifteen or tvv'enty minutes. Serve on a hot platter garnished 
with parsley or water cress. MRS. MAUDE WOODS. 

Esealloped Tomatoes. Take a pint stewed tomatoes which 
liave been rubbed through a colander, thicken with one and 
one-fourth cup lightly picked bread crumbs add salt and half 
cup sweet cream. Mix well and bake twenty minutes. 

MRS. ELVA ARMSTRONG. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. Wipe clean large tomatoes; from the 
stem side lift out the inside, mix with this pepper, salt, but- 
ter and bread crumbs, stuff this into the tomato shell and bake 
iifteen minutes. MRS. MAUD HIGBY. 



BREAD. 



Recipe for Yeast Cake. Make the yeast Lliree times as 
strong as for bread. The next day after the yeast is well 
raised stir in enough corn meal to roll out. Cut with biscuit 
cutter and dry near the fire as quickly as possible, to prevent 
them from getting sour. MRb: IDA RUSSELL. 

Home Made Yeast. Save a little piece of the sponge every 
other week; rub corn meal into the sponge until stiff, break 
Into small pieces and dry. You will have no trouble in making 
yeast this way providing the sponge is light before the corn 
meal is rubbed in. MRS. IDA RUSSELL. 



BREAD 27 

Potato Ball Yeast. Boil four or five large potatoes until 
thoroughly soft, mash well and when cool add a dissolved 
yeast cake, also one teaspoon each of salt and sugar. Keep in 
a cool place and when you wish to make bread cook some more 
potatoes and add to the ball, also add salt and sugar. Make 
into two balls, save one for yeast and use the other for bread. 
Fresh yeast will not need to be added to the ball oftener than 
every other baking, and the ball can be kept for months. 

MRS. JOHN PIERSON. 

Bread. At noon scald a cup flour with poiato water, adding 
two tablespoons mashed potato; when lukewarm stir in this 
one cake yeast previously soaked; at night add to this one 
quart lukewarm water or sweet milk scalded and cooled and 
two tablespoons each of butter and sugar and one tablespoon 
salt; stir in flour to make thick batter, let rise over night and 
in morning pour a tablespoon boiling water over one-third tea- 
spoon soda and stir in sponge while in effervescent state; then 
add sufficient flour to the sponge (putting it all in at once as 
near as possible) to make the dough stiff enough that it will 
not stick to the hands, kneading only long enough to work the 
flour in smooth. Place this in a well greased gallon crock, let 
rise until half full, knead down, let rise again; when very light 
make into loaves with hands, but do not work on board; let 
rise in pans, place, in hot oven and bake three-quarters of an 
hour, being careful not to add much more fuel if oven is hot 
when put in. Use no flour in kneading down the bread when 
light or moulding into loaves simply grease the hands in- 
stead. Always use an earthen crock for bread snd cover with 
another crock, and do not let get too warm or chilled while 
rising. Crete Mills flour preferred. MRS. D. C. BELL. 

Bread. One quart sour milk brought to a boil, then set 
aside to cool. When tepid add one yeast cake which has been 
fully dissolved in half a cup luke-warm water, one pint water 
or potato water, and flour enough to make a stiff batter, then 
set in a warm place over night to rise. In the morning add one 
tablespoon sugar, one of butter and one of salt, and enough 
flour to make stiff. Knead well and put to rise again; when 
light, knead again, let rise, then make into loaves, place in 
pans and when light bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

MRS. OLIVE DURHAM. 



28 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Salt Risingj Bread. Pour half a pint boiling water on two 
tablespoons corn meal and a pinch of salt, let it stand ten 
minutes, then stir in two tablespoons flour and set in a warm 
place to rise over night. In the morning add half a pint fresh 
sweet milk and flour enough to make the yeast smooth, then 
put in a kettle of warm water. Keep at an even temperature 
and when it rises pour it in a batter made of two quarts of 
scalded and cooled new milk; add flour enough to make a 
batter, beat well and put to rise in a warm place for twenty- 
five or thirty minutes. Then stir in flour until too stiff to be 
stirred with a spoon, then pour it on the molding board, add 
a little lard, mix in the flour well and put in pans to rise and 
bake. MRS. ELLA JOHNSON. 

Rye Bread. Set a sponge with wheat flour as for wheat 
bread. In the morning sift the rye flour, make a well in the 
center, into this put two pints of sponge, a coffee cup tepid 
water, two tablespons salt, two-thirds cup molasses, one half 
cup lard or butter and mix altogether until very stiff. Put on 
molding board and knead, adding flour until it doe.3 not stick 
to the hands or board. The success of rye bread depends on 
hard kneading and getting it stiff enough. Bake same as 
wheat bread. MISS AUGUSTA WALDORF. 

Hon. E. A. Gilbert's Recipe for Biscviit. One quart flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder, about half a handful lard or 
cottoline or something, salt io taste, and milk to mix. Cut out 
with a baking powder can, roll out with a rolling pin and bake 
to a delicate mahogany brown. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. One quart flour sifted with two 
heaping teaspoons baking powder, teaspoon salt, two table- 
spoons lard and butter mixed in thoroughly. Mix lightly with 
milk as soft as can be rolled. Bake in hot oven. 

MRS. J. S. KNOTT. 

Cream Biscuit. One pint of sour cream, tablespoon lard, 
small teaspoon soda and a little salt. Work well, but do not 
handle much. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. BRUCE MERADITH. 

Light Biscuit. Boil two large potatoes and mash while hot. 
Into the hot potatoes stir one teacup lafd and butter mixed; 
add salt and two well beaten eggs. To this add one teacup 



BREAD 29 

sweet milk in wh ch has been dissolved one half cake yeast and 
one tablespoon sjgar. Stir in one quart of flour and let rise. 
After it is light mix in flour until it is about like bread dough. 
Let rise then mold into biscuit and when light 'bake in moder- 
ate oven. MRS. MARY TILDEN. 

Sour Milk Biscuits. One pint sour milk, one even teaspoon 
soda; after all the lumps are thoroughly mashed run the 
finger over top of spoon, dissolve and stir the soda well into 
the milk, until effervescent. Have ready about a pint of sifted 
flour into which has been mixed a little salt, one heaping 
•dessert spoon lard and one liberal teaspoon baking powder 
(the baking powder being mixed in flour before lard): mix 
with the sour milk into a soft dough (should there not be 
sufficient of the sour milk to ma ce dough soft add a little 
sweet milk or water). Press out with hand, cut with a small 
biscuit cutter, bake in a quick aven five to eight minutes. This 
receipt will make about twelve biscuits. 

MRS. MAUD WOODS. 

Baked Brov»ii Bread. One and one-half cups sour milk one 
cup molasses, one and one-half teaspoons soda; stir well and 
add one cup sugar, one half cup lard, teaspoon salt, one teacup 
graham flour (sifted), one teacup corn meal (sifted) and 
enough white flour to make very stiff Bake in a well greased 
pan in a moderate oven for forty minutes, or until done by 
testing with a straw. Do not move in the oven or it will fall. 

MRS. E. J. WIGHTMAX. 

BroA\ii Bread. Two cups graham or brown flour, one cup 
€ach of white flour, corn meal, sweet milk, sour milk and mo- 
lasses, one egg, one teaspoon soda and one teaspoon salt. 
Steam three hours. :\IRS. D. E. SEDGWICK. 

Bro\\Ti Bread. One egg, one cup sour milk, one half cup 
€ach sugar and molasses, (lard size of an egg) melted, one 
laalt saucer flour, one saucer corn meal. Steam three hours. 

MRS. R. J. BULLOCK. 

Brown Bread. One cup sugar, four cups sour milk, two 
level teaspoons soda, lump of butter the size of an egg. melted, 
a pinch of salt, and graham flour to stiffen. Let stand one 
hour in baking pan and lake one hour in slow oven. 

MISS BERTHA ALLEN. 



30 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Brown Bread. Two cups buttermilk, half cup each mo- 
lasses and sugar, two cups graham flour, one cup corn meal, 
two small teaspoons soda in the buttermilk, isalt. Steam in 
tin cans three hours. MRS. EDWARD WARNER. 

Brown Bread. One pint sweet milk, half cup molasses, tea- 
spoon soda, half teaspoon salt. Put molasses, salt and soda 
together and stir for five minutes; add milk and stir in graham 
fiour until of consistency of thick batter; place in pan and 
steam hard for an hour and a half and bake twenty minutes. 
I manufacture my own graham, and in that, I think, lies the 
secret of my success. For one part of shorts use two parts of 
best patent flour and sift together. 

MRS. KATE NORTHUF. 

Boston Brown Bread. Two cups sour milk, three of corn 
meal, one of flour, one of molasses, three eggs and a little salt. 
Steam three hours and bake one. MRS. J. E. WHITE. 

Quick Brown Bread. One and one-half pints sour milk; 
half cup New Orleans molasses, a little salt, two teaspoons 
soda dissolved in a little hot water, about one tablespoon of 
lard and as much graham flour as can be stirred with a spoon. 
Pour into two well greased cans and bake from one to one and 
one-quarter hours. MISS DORA VAN TINE. 

Cinnamon Bread. One quart bread sponge, four eggs well 
beaten, one coffee cup sugar, one cup butter; mix, let rise 
and work down same as for bread. Make four loaves about an 
inch thick, let rise, then take one egg, a teaspoon butter, beat 
well together and spread over the. top. Sprinkle sugar and 
cinnamon over, then bake. MRS. REUBEN CLARK. 

Corn Bread. One pint sour cream, one egg, one small tea- 
spoon soda, one tablespoon sugar, pinch of salt, and corn meal 
enough to thicken. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. LIBBIE SHAW. 

Corn Bread. One and one-half cups sour milk, one cup 
corn meal, two cups flour, half cup sugar, one egg, two table- 
E'poons melted butter, pinch of salt, one teaspoon soda. 

MRS. M. BURNS. 

Corn Bread. One cup wheat flour, three of corn meal and 
one half cup sugar, two teaspoons salt, two eggs, two table- 



BREAD 31 

spoons lard or drippings, two teaspoons baking powder, and 
sweet milk to make a thin batter. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. A. BLODGETT. 

Graham Bread. To two quarts of graham flour add one 
cup of sugar, one half cup lard, one tablespoon salt, and suf- 
ficient boiling water to stir easily with a spoon. Let stand till 
tepid and add one cup yeast; let this mixture rise, then add 
enough white flour to mould nicely, let rise and make into 
loaves; let rise again, then bake from forty to sixty minutes, 
according to the size of the loaves. 

MRS. A. C. MONTGOMERY. 

Graham Bread. Four heaping cups graham flour, one 
tablespoon salt, one half coffee cup molasses, heaping teaspoon 
soda dissolved in hot water and stirred into the molasses until 
it foams. Pour on the meal enough milk or water to make the 
dough as stiff as cake mixture, put in two pans and bake until 
done. MRS. W. H. READER. 

Newport Bread. Five tablespoons butter and two of sugar, 
three eggs, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoons baking powder, 
stirred into one quart of flour. Pour into a dripping pan, bake 
twenty minutes and serve warm. MRS. IDALETTA WOODS. 

Rice Bread. One and one-half cups cooked rice, one egg, 
salt, butter half the size of an egg, one cup corn meal, one full 
cup sweet milk; put in a shallow buttered dish and bake three 
quarters of an hour. To be eaten hot with butter. 

MRS. JULIA GREENE BELL. 

Coffeev Cake. Two pints bread sponge, one tablespoon salt, 
one egg, butter the size of an egg, one cup seeded raisins, two 
thirds cup sugar one half cup sweet milk. Beat all together 
thoroughly, adding flour until too stiff to stir with a spoon. 
Put on molding board, adding flour enough to make it easily 
kneaded, being careful not to get it too stiff. Let rise, knead 
down and let rise again. When light roll about one half inch 
thick and put in pans. V/hen raised again cover the top with 
creamed butter and sugar; on this sprinkle a little cinnamon. 
Bake one half hour. MISS :\IERXA ZIEMKE. 

Indian Sponge Cake. Two cups Indian meal, one cup flour, 
sometimes graham flour, two cups sour milk, one cup mo- 



32 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

lasses, one teaspoon soda dissolved in two teaspoons water. 
Steam two and one-half hours, bake one. quarter of an hour. 

MRS. R. T. CROSS. 

Johnny Cake. One cup sour milk, one tablespoon sugar, 
one egg, little salt, one teacup corn meal, half teaspoon soda, 
one tablespoon flour. MRS. E. A. WARNER. 

French Crackers. One and one-half pounds flour, half 
pound sugar, one fourth pound butter, whites five eggs; mix 
stiff, roll thin and prick with a fork. Bake in a very hot oven. 

MRS. ELLA JOHNSON. 

Graham Crackers. Four cups sifted graham flour, one 
tablespoon nice sweet lard, one heaping teaspoon each of salt 
and baking powder and sufficient sweet milk to make a stiff 
dough. Roll thin cut in squares, and bake till hard in a mod- 
erate oven. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Toasted Crackers. Spread wafer crackers with butter, a 
small amount of prepared mustard and grated cheese. Brown 
in the oven. Serve with soups, salads or macaroni. 

MRS. R. McCONAUGHY. 

Gems. One egg, three tabespoons sugar, one half cup but- 
ter, one coffee cup sweet milk, three heaping teaspoons baking 
powder, pinch of salt flour to make a stiff batter. Bake quick 
in gem pans, nicely buitered. MISS BELL CLARK. 

Graham Gems. One and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, two 
and one-half cups butter milk, one half cup sour cream, one 
teaspoon soda, and enough graham flour to make a medium 
stiff batter. MRS. JAMES BARR. 

Graham Gems. Two cups graham flour one cup wheat 
Hour, two teaspoons baking powder, a tablespoon sugar, a 
tablespoon salt, and one well beaten egg. Mix with sweet milk 
to make a thin batter; beat it well; put in well greased gem 
pars and bake twenty minutes. 

MRS. J. A. DIEFFENBACHER. 

Muffins. One pint milk, three gills wheat flour, three eggs 
pinch of salt; beat eggs very light, add milk and flour. 

:\IRS. FRED JAMES. 



BREAD 33 

Muffins. One egg, one cup milk, one tablespoon lard or 
butter, one teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon baking powder, flour 
to make rather stiff. MRS. HARRISON. 

Parker House llolls. One pint sweet milk boiled and 
cooled, piece of butler size of an egg, one half cup fresh yeasty 
one tablespoon sugar, a pinch of salt, and two quarts sifted 
flour. Melt the butter in the warm milk, add the sugar, salt, 
flour and yeast, and let it rise over night. Mix rather soft. In 
the morning add half a teaspoon soda dissolved in a teaspoon 
water. Mix in enough flour to make as stiff as any biscuit 
dough roll out not more than a quarter of an inch thick, cut 
with a large round biscuit cutter, spread soft butter over the 
top and fold one half over the other. Place them apart so 
that there will be room to rise, cover and set near the stove for 
tifteen or twenty minutes before baking. Bake in rather a 
quick oven. MRS. OLIVE DURHAM. 

Rolls. One quart of warm water enough flour stirred in to 
make a stiff sponge, a half cup yeast and a teaspoon salt. Let 
rise over night. In the morning add one cup each sugar and 
butter, whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, and flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Set to rise and when light roll 
cut, cut in round forms, fold the edges together, lay in pans, 
let rise again and bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. MARY J. PREWITT. 

Tea Rolls. Take a piece of bread dough large enough to 
fill a quart bowl, half cup lard, white of one egg beaten to a 
stiff froth, one tablespoon sugar, pinch of soda. Mix all to- 
gether, working ten minutes on board with as little flour as 
possible. Set to rise and when light roll and cut with round 
cutter. Lay on one side small lumps of butter, fold over, pinch 
edges together, let rise till very light and bake in a moderate 
oven. MISS MARTHA EDIE. 

Grandma's Rusk, Make a sponge at night of one pint sweet 
milk adding salt, flour and yeast cake as for bread. In the 
morning melt one quarter pound butter in one pint hot milk, 
and when cool enough add to the sponge, also three well beaten 
eggs and one heaping cup white sugar. Work well into a loaf 
end let rise. When very light roll out and cut in cakes about 
one and one-half inches thick, let rise again and bake a light 
brown. MRS. E. D. MARSELLUS. 



34 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Snow Ball. One pint bread sponge, whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, one tablespoon each of lard and sugar, 
one salt spoon salt. Knead stiff as bread, let rise, roll half an 
inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter, butter one and lay another 
on top, let rise and bake. MRS. A. L. SNOW. 

Bread Sticks. One pint flour, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one-fourth teaspoon salt, and enough thick sweet cream 
to make a soft dough. Roll out one-half inch thick, cut in 
strips three inches long and roll. Wash with milk and bake in 
a quick oven. MRS. A. F. BLOOMER. 

American Toast. To one egg .thoroughly beaten put one 
cup sweet milk and a little salt. Slice light bread and dip into 
the mixture, allowing each slice to absorb some of the milk, 
then brown on a hot buttered griddle. Spread with butler and 
serve hot. MRS. EFFIE H. SPOONER. 

French Toast. One pint sweet milk, two eggs, salt to taste. 
Dip slices bread in' egg and milk, fry in butter, watching care- 
fully to avoid burning or frying too brown. Serve in covered 
dish. MRS. HELEN DIBBLE. 

Lemon Toast. Yolks of six eggs, beat them well, three cups 
sweet milk; take baker's bread, not too stale and cut in slices, 
dip them into the milk and eggs, lay the slices into a spider 
with sufficient hot butter and fry a delicate brown. Take the 
whites of the six eggs and beat them to a froth, adding a large 
cup white sugar, the juice of two lemons, heating well, and 
adding two cups boiling water; pour over the toast as a sauce. 

MISS NELLIE CHAPMAN. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

CROQUETTES, FRITTERS AND WAFFLES. 



Bread Pancakes. Bring one quart of milk to a boil and 
pour it over a quart of bread crumbs. Let it stand five min- 
utes then add one cup flour, two eggs and one tablespoon bak- 
ing powder. Fry in hot lard. MRS. G. F. BURR. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes. One quart buckwheat and one 
pint common wheat flour, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons 



GRIDDLE CAKES 35 

sugar; sift the flour, salt and sugar all together. Use sweet 
milk enough to mix the whole to a medium batter add one 
compressed yeast cake dissolved in half cup tepid water, stir- 
ring it well into the batter. This should not be prepared be- 
fore nine o'clock P. M. Keep in a temperature of 70 degrees. 
Stand in an outer dish to catch what may run over. Stir down 
well before baking and add an even teaspoon soda dissolved 
in warm water. Leave a little batter to start cakes with next 
night. Fresh yeast should be used every four or five days. 

MISS HATTIE REED. 

CORX CAKES. Two cups corn meal ,scalded, one cup 
wheat flour, three eggs, one teaspoon salt, half teaspoon soda, 
three cups buttermilk, beaten together until light. 

MRS. G. F. BURR. 

Corn Cakes. One egg to one bowl of sour milk, equal parts 
corn meal and flour, one small tablespoon sugar, one level tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in warm water, salt to taste. Make a 
stiff batter. If milk is very sour mix with it a little water. 

MRS. JAMES McCONAUGHY. 

Oat Meal Griddle Cakes. Two cups soft cooked oatmeal, 
two small cups sour milk one egg, pinch of salt, one teaspoon 
soda. Add corn meal until the batter is stiff enough to bake 
on the griddle. MRS. JULIA GREENE BELL. 

Raw Potato Pancakes. Pare and grate about twelve large 
potatoes; beat four eggs and stir into potato, add two large 
tablespoons flour and salt to tast, and mix all. together thor- 
oughly. Bake like ordinary pancakes but use more grease. 

MRS. CHRIS KOLLING. 

Sweet Corn Cakes Two cups flour, two cups sifted corn 
meal, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, pinch of salt, 
cup sugar, two cups water. Drop in hot buttered gem pans, 
and bake in a hot oven. MRS. MYRTLE BOSTON. 

Fritters. One cup sour milk, one small teaspoon each soda 
and salt, two eggs. Beat in enough flour to form a thick bat- 
ter. Fry in hot lard. MISS KATE TYLER. 

Corn Fritters. To one can' corn add one cup sweet milk 
two eggs well beaten, two tablespoons melted butter, teaspoon 



36 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

salt, one cup and half rolled crackers, and fry in a little butter 
and lard a nice brown. — MRS. F. E. FENDER. 

Green Corn Fritters. One pint grated young and tender 
green corn, three eggs two tablespoons good sweet cream (or 
one tablespoon of milk and one of melted butter can be used 
instead of cream), ealt spoon salt. Beat the eggs well, add 
corn by degrees, also the cream, and thicken with enough rol- 
led crackers to hold them together. Have ready a pan of hot 
lard, drop the corn from the spoon into the lard, and fry a 
light brown. They are very nice fried in butter and lard 
mixed. They can also be made with canned corn instead of 
green corn. MRS. S. E. MANSFIELD. 

Oyster Flitters. Drain off the liquor, and for each pint of 
oysters take a pint of milk, a salt spoon salt, half as much pep- 
per, 'one egg and flour enough to make a thin batter. Chop 
the oysters and stir in the batter, then fry in hot lard. Drop 
in one spoonful at a time and wait until the lard is sufficiently 
hot before adding the next spoonful of the cold batter. If pre- 
ferred, the oysters m.ay remain whole, and the batter should be 
made a trifle thicker and one oyster put in each fritter. 

MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

Chicken Croquette?^. Put a cup of cream or milk in a sauce 
pan, set over the fire and when it boils, add lump of butter the 
size cf an egg, in which has been mixed a tablespoon of flour. 
Let it boil until thick; remove from fire., and when cool mix 
into it a teaspoon salt, half teaspoon pepper, a bit of minced 
onion or parsley, one cup fine bread crumbs, and a pint of 
finely chopped chicken, either roasted or boiled; then beat up 
two eggs and work in with the whole. Flour hands and make 
small cakes; dip in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in butter 
and good sweet lard. Take them up with a skimmer and lay 
on brown paper to free from grease. Serve hot. 

MRS. MARGARET CHILCOTE. 

Salmon Croquettes. Pick the contents of a can of salmon 
to pieces, remove all bones and skin. To half pint salmon 
allow an equal quantity of mashed potatoes and fine bread 
crumbs. Thicken half pint of boiling milk with two table- 
spoons fiour and one teaspoon butter rubbed together stir over 
fire until smooth and very thick; remove from fire, add salmon, 



GRIDDLE CAKES 37 

rotato and bread crumbs; mix thoroughly, season with salt and 
white pepper, and set away to cool in a buttered dish. When 
cool and firm make into balls or cylinders, dip in beaten egg 
and cracker dust fry in deep smoking lard until brown. 

MRS. JAY SERVISS. 

Rice Croquettes. Boil the rice until tender and soft; while 
still warm, measure, and to every teacup rice add a well beat- 
en egg, a tablespoon butter, pepper and salt to taste, and half 
cup any kind cold fresh meat, ham or tongue chopped fine. 
When cold, with floured hands make into croquettes, dip in 
beaten egg, then in cracker dust and fry in a frying basket in 
hot drippings of lard. MRS. E. ELLS. 

AVaflfles. Take one and a half scant cups flour, half cup 
Eielted butter, one and one half cups sweet milk, three eggs 
beaten very light, two heaping teaspoons baking powder; have 
waffle iron smoking hot, grease thoroughly and bake at once. 

MRS JESSE LOVE. 

AVaffles. One pint flour, one small teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon soda all sifted together; beat three 
eggs to a stiff froth, put in the sifted flour, adding also one 
cup fresh buttermilk and one tablespoon melted butter. Bake 
in well greased "waffle irons. 

MRS. SAM MAPPS. 

"Waffles. Tw^o cups sour milk or cream, one cup sweet milk, 
three eggs, whites well .beaten, one teaspoon soda, half tea- 
spoon salt, three heaping cups flour. If no cream is used take 
butter size of an egg. Have irons quite hot and well greased. 
Bake till a nice bro^vn. MRS. D. Y. HEISLAR. 

AVaffles. Beat three eggs, sift three cups of flour with three 
teaspoons baking powder, rub half cup butter into the flour, 
add the eggs, use sweet milk enough to make a batter which 
will pour into the hot waffle irons, filling them two-thirds full. 

MRS. A. J. RYAX. 

Quick AVaffles. Four eggs, one tablespoon melted butter, 
one pint milk, pinch of salt two teaspoons baking powder, and 
enough flour to make a thick batter. Heat irons and butter 
w^ell before filling. MRS. B. KING. 



38 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

SANDWICHES. 



Beef Sandwiches. A hearty sandwich which most men are 
fond of, is made thus: Chop very fine cold rare roast beef, 
and to one cup of meat add one fourth teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon tomato catsup, the same amount of Worcestershire sauce 
and of melted butter. Stir until well blended and spread on 
thin slices of bread. MRS. W. S. WALLARD. 

Cheese Sandwiches. Grate three ounces of cheese into a 
bowl, add an ounce of butter and a teaspoon dry mustard. 
Spread very thinly on slices of bread, smoothly buttered. 

DOROTHY E. HIGBY. 

Celery Sandwiches. Boil two eggs fifteen minutes, throw in- 
to cold water, remove the shells and rub through a coarse 
sieve; add to them a small cup of finely chopped celery and 
enough mayonnaise dressing to season it and make a paste. 
Spread on thin slices of buttered bread. 

MRS. W. S. WALLARD. 

Chicken Sandwiches. Mince up fine any cold boiled or roast- 
ed chicken; put it into a saucepan with gravy, water or cream 
enough to soften it, add a good piece of butter, and a pinch of 
pepper, working it very smooth while it is heating, until it 
looks almost like paste, then spread it on a plate to cool. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 

MRS. M. C. PURCELL. 

Fruit Sandwiches. Make by spreading slices of bread with 
a little whipped cream, and then with steamed figs chopped, 
or sliced bananas. MRS. ELVA A. ARMSTRONG. 

Peanut and Lettuce Sandwiches. One half cup vinegar one 
fourth cup water, one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, 
one half cup sugar; beat all together and cook till thick as 
cream, and when cold add one cup cream. Chop or roll fresh 
roasted peanuts, and mix with dressing to make thick enough 
to spread between thin slices of buttered bread. For lettuce 
sandwiches take the same salad dressing, spread on the 
bread and butter and lay a leaf of lettuce between. 

MRS. G.W. SHIDLER. 



SANDWICHES 39 

Salmon Sandwiclies. For a dozen sandwiches use all th3 
salmon from one can, crush with a fork, add a pinch of salt, 
little pepper, and butter half the size of an egg; mix all togeth- 
er and heat on the sto ve; toast twenty four square soda crack- 
ers to a light brown, dip these quickly into a pint and a half 
of hot, rich milk seasoned with a pinch of salt and half table- 
spoon butter; then spread the salmon on half the crackers and 
cover each cracker with the other. Serve hot. 

MRS JOHN MAPPS. 

Sardine Sandwiches. Take three sardines and remove the 
skin and bones; put them in a bowl with one teaspoon anchovy 
paste, the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, two tablespoons 
olive oil and juice of half a lemon. Rub this mixture to a paste 
with the back of a silver spoon and spread on bread; Graham 
bread is especially good foj- fish sandwiches. 

MRS ORRIN BARNETT. 

Tongue Sandwiches. Make a dressing of half cup butter, 
one tablespoon mixed mustard, one of salad oil, a pinch of salt 
and yolk of one egg; rub the butter to a cream add the other 
ingredients and mix thoroughly; then stir in as much chopped 
tongue as will make it the proper consistency and spread thin 
slices of bread. Omit salad oil and substitute melted butter if 
preferred. This is an excellent recipe for sandwiches, and 
can be made of turkey, chicken or ham. 

MISS LILLIE M. PURCELL. 

Walnut Sandwiches. Delicious sandwiches may be made 
with one cup of English walnut meats chopped very fine and 
mixed with enough Philadelphia cream cheese to make a paste; 
add a little salt and pepper and spread on very thin bread. 

MRS. ORRIN BARNETT. 



CHEESE. 



Baked Macaroni. Break, macaroni three inches long, and 
enough to half fill dish in which it is to be baked; cook in 
boiling salted water until soft; shake sauce pan often to keep 
from scorching. Butter pudding dish, put in half macaroni, 



40 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

sprinkle with salt, pepper, bits butter and grated cheese; put 
in remaining macaroni, season, fill dish with cream or rich milk, 
bake until milk is absorbed and top brown. Strained stewed 
tomatoes or oysters may be used in place of cheese. 

MRS J. C. KECKLEY. 

Cheese Omelet. Make a plain omelet and when ready to 
turn, sprinkle in three tablespoons cheese well grated. 

MRS. T. J. HATFIELD. 

Cheese Straws. Work to a smooth paste three ounces grat- 
ed cheese, two ounces flour, a little salt, cayenne pepper and 
the yolk of one egg, roll this mixture upon a pie board until 
about one-eighth of an inch thick; cut m narrow strips, place 
upon buttered tins and bake quickly to a light brown tint. 

MISS GRACE EAGLESON. 

Cheese St^a^^s. Three heaping tablespoons sifted flour three 
of grated cheese and one of butter, yolk of one egg, one half 
salt spoon each of salt and pepper one tablespoon milk, and a 
little nutmeg; mix cheese and butter in a bowl, add yolk, salt 
and pepper and stir well; pour in milk, then add flour and 
nutmeg; roll out very thin, cut into narrow strips and bake 
about fifteen minutes. MRS. A. L. SNOW. 

Cheese Straws. One cup flour, one half cup butter, one and 
one-half cups grated cheese, salt; mix with water, roll thin, 
cut in narrow strips, and bake on buttered paper in pans. A 
dainty way to serve them is to bake some of the straw^s in the 
form of rings, slip the long straws through, and thus make a 
"bundle of straw." MISS DOROTHY E. HIGBY. 

Cottage Cheese. Pour sufficient boiling w^ater on thick, 
Bour milk to scald it thoroughly; then put in thin muslin bag, 
hang up to drain until entirely free from whey; remove from 
bag, cut in slices and serve with sugar and cream; or by mix- 
ing with sweet cream the cheese may be made into a smooth 
paste to be eaten, as preferred with sugar or pepper and salt. 

MRS. R. H. DEVER. 

Escalloped (^hees:\ Three slices bread well buttered, first 
cutting off all crusts; grate fine a quarter pound good cheese; 
lay bread in a layer in a well buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
over it grated cheese and a little salt, then a layer of bread. 



CHEESE 41 

etc. Mix three well beaten eggs with three cups sweet milk 
and pour over the bread and cheese. Bake in a hot oven as 
you would bread pudding. Good served either hot or cold. 

MRS. KATE B. NORTHUP 

Macaroni Cheese. Cook a glass tumblerful of French mac- 
aroni by pouring boiling water over it and cook until tender; 
salt before removing from fire; when done pour all the water 
off. Make a dressing as follows: one half cup sweet milk, 
butter size of an egg, heat but not boil the milk and butter, 
then stir in two eggs well beaten and one teaspoon tlour dis- 
solved in a little milk; stir briskly until well mixed together, 
not allowing it to boil; pour this dressing over the macaroni, 
then sprinkle powdered crackers over top and lastly put one 
cup grated cheese with bits of butter on top, moisten this with 
milk and bake until done. MRS. I. N. BAGNELL. 

Macnd'oiii With Cheese. Cook in a quantity of salted boil- 
ing water until it yields easily to pressure between the fingers, 
drain in a colander and cover with cold water until needed. 
Put in a sauce pan one tablespoon butter and two of flour, stir 
them together over the fire until they form a smooth thick 
paste; add a half pint boiling milk and stir briskly; if thicker 
than pudding sauce add a little boiling w^ater; when the sauce 
has boiled up once, add salt, pepper and a grating of nutmeg. 
Put in the macaroni, and, while heating, grate two ounces of 
dry cheese and mix it with the macaroni, which can be served 
as soon as hot, or browned in the oven. 

MRS. FLOY McCONAUGHY. 

Potatoes and Cheese. Boil potatoes with jackets on until 
about half done, take off skin, cut potatoes in half inch cubes, 
put layer in bottom of dish about an inch or so deep, salt and 
pepper; grate cheese and sprinkle over lightly about half an 
inch deep; repeat above until dish is full. Fill dish about 
half full of moderately thick cream (if you do not have the 
cream put butter on each layer,) roll crlackers, stir in salt and 
pepper, sprinkle over top about half an inch deep; dampen 
thoroughly with milk or cream scatter lumps of butter over 
same, bake until potatoes are done, and have the top a golden 
brown. MRS. F. B. DAGGY. 



42 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Escallcped Cheese. Soak one cup of bread crumbs in a cup 
of milk, beat into this tliree eggs, add a tablespoon melted but- 
ter, one-half pound grated cheese; sprinkle top with bread 
crumbs sifted, and bake a light brown. 

MRS. W. A. CARPENTER. 

Smear-Case. One gallon thick milk; cook slow not boil, for 
half hour, drain through a collander, and season with salt, pep- 
per and sweet cream. MRS. A. A. NELSON. (Utica Neb.) 

AVelsh Karebit. Cut thin slices of bread remove the crust 
and toast quickly; butter and cover with thin slices of rich 
cheese, sprinkle with mustard if desired, place toast on pie tin 
and £e.t in hot oven until cheese is melted. Serve at once, as it 
is spoiled if allowed to get cold. 

MRS J. H. BELL. (Aurora, Neb.) 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 



Pickled Eggs. Boil one dozen eggs nfteen minutes, throw 
Into cold water and shell them. Boil several red beets, slice 
and put them into the jar with the eggs. Heat enough viengar 
to cover the eggs, add salt, pepper and all kinds of spices and 
pour over the eggs. Keep them tightly covered. 

MRS. JAMES BARR. 

Ecoiioniical Omelet. No. 1. — Many delicious omelets can be 
made, by the addition of cold fish or minced and cooked vege- 
tables. Take a cup of any cold fish, free it from bones, and 
heat in white sauce made from half a pint of milk and a table- 
spoon each of butter and flour; break into this three eggs, and 
stir until they are properly cooked. Serve all on toast. 

No. 2. — Another way of combining eggs and fish is to spread 
the fish, heated in the sauce, on a buttered dish that has been 
v/ell sprinkled with bread crumbs; break on top an egg for each 
person, and set in oven until whites are set. These, are good 
for breakfast dishes. MISS DOROTHY E. HIGBY. 

Baked Omelet. Four or six eggs; beat whites separately, 
small teacup milk, butter size of walnut, one tablespoon flour. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 43 

V. little salt; beat yolks, add butter, milk, flour and salt, lastly 
the beaten whites. Butter a dish just the size to hold it; bake 
in quick oven. MRS. D. B. SNODGRASS. 

Ham Omelet. Make an ordinary omelet, allowing one egg 
to two tablespoons milk for each person; when it is put in a hot 
frying pan and well set, add one cup of ham chopped very fine; 
roll the omelet over once, and serve with a few sprigs of parsley 
to garnish. MRS. W. D. MEAD, Jr. 

Stuffed Eggs With Vinegar. Boil hard as many eggs as de- 
sired, cut in two lengthwise, remove the yolks, season with salt, 
pepper, mustard and as much vinegar as needed to make a 
stiff paste. Fill each half white with this mixture. 

Develed Eggs With Cream. Boil Eggs hard and season as 
above using cream in place of vinegar. MRS. JAY SERVISS. 



SALADS 
AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 



Bean Salad. Use canned stringed beans, or string young 
beans; cook tender in salt water, drain, add to one quart of 
beans one finely chopped onion and three hard boiled eggs, 
alternate layers of beans, onions and sliced eggs, using a little 
pepper and salt. Pour over all the following dressing: one 
half cup vinegar, butter the. size of an egg, and half teaspoon 
mustard; set on to cook. Beat yolks of two eggs, three table- 
spoons sugar and one cup sour cream, stir into the vinegar and 
let boil until it thickens. This dressing is also used for potato 
salad. , MRS. W. S. WALLARD. 

Cabbage Salad. One finely chopped cabbage sprinkled with 
salt; let it stand one hour, then drain. Take one pint vinegar 
one tea spoon mustard (as prepared for the table), a small 
piece of butter one half cup sugar, pepper to taste, boil all 
together; beat two eggs and stir into this after it has been 
taken from the stove, and pour on cabbage while hot; set away 
to cool. MRS. LEVI MAPPS. 



4 4 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Cabbage Salad. Beat two eggs with two tablespoons sugar, 
add a piece of butter size of an egg, teaspoon ground mustard, 
little pepper, half cup thick, sweet cream, lastly teacup good 
vinegar. Put these ingredients into a dish over the fire, and 
cook like a soft custard; pour over the cabbage, previously cut 
fine and seasoned with salt. 

MRS. AMERICA DOAK. 

Cabbage Salad. One solid head of cabbage, cut fine, one 
cup sour cream, three fourths cup sugar, salt to taste, one half 
cup vinegar; beat all together, including cabbage, until it 
foams. MRS. G. F. BURR. 

Cabbage Salad. One small firm head of cabbage. Put in a 
granite dish one half cup vinegar, butter the size of walnut, 
two heaping tablespoons sugar. When hot stir in one cup sweet 
cream, one egg and one tablespoonful flour well beaten togeth- 
er. When cooked pour over the chopped cabbage and cover 
closely until cold. MRS. M. BURNS. 

Celery Salad. Boil a cup of milk and thicken it with table- 
spoon corn starch dissolved in a little milk; mix well tegether 
one beaten egg two teaspoons sugar, one of salt, half teaspoon- 
ful dry mustard and a small pinch of cayenne pepper; pour this 
into the hot milk a little at a time, stirring constantly; when 
smooth, take from the fire and add a tablesijoon (or more) 
olive oil and the same quantity of vinegar; mix well together 
and when cool pour over celery cut in very small pieces. 

MRS. W. C. BUCHANAN. 

Choice Celery S:ilad. A nice and cheap salad is made by 
taking five cold boiled potatoes and chopping them, an equal 
amount of finely chopped celery and mix. Make a sauce or 
(•ressing of half cup vinegar, one egg, half tablespoon butter, 
a little mustard, pepper and salt to taste; boil, stirring gently 
to keep from burning, till nearly as chick as custard, pour over 
the celery and potatoes and mix thoroughly, when it is ready 
for the table. MRS. LOIUSE ROBERTS NEWMAN. 

Cliieken Salad. One chicken weighing two and one half- 
pounds, one cup chopped celery, four hard boiled e^gs, three 
tablespoon melted butter, one teaspoon each mustard and salt 
one cup vinegar. Salad dressing: One egg well beaten, one 



SALADS 45 

tablespoon melted butter one tablespoon sugar, a pinch of mus- 
tard, a little salt, half cup vinegar, one cup sour cream. 

MISS JESSIE CONAWAY. 

Chicken Sahid. Boil three chickens until tender, salting to 
taste; when cold take from bones and chop; take twice the 
quantity of celery, cut up with a knife, but not chopped, and 
eight hard boiled eggs sliced and thoroughly mixed through the 
ether ingredients. For dressing, put on stove a saucepan with 
one pint vinegar, butter size of an egg; beat two or three eggs 
with tablespoons mustard, one of black pepper, a pinch of red 
pepper, two tablespoons sugar and a teaspoon salt; when thor- 
oughly beaten together, pour slowly into the vinegar until it 
thickens. Be careful not to cook too long or the egg will 
curdle. Remove, and when cold pour over salad. 

MRS. A. J. RYAN. 

Chicken Salad. One boiled chicken chopped fine, one-half 
as much cabbage, one cup celery. Dressing: yolks of three 
eggs, one tablespoon each corn starch and sugar, one pint milk; 
cook until it thickens; when cool, thin with vinegar. Season 
to taste with salt, pepper and mustard; mix together thor- 
oughly. MRS. S. C. GRIPPEN. 

Salad cf Stuffed Cucumber. Cut the bitter point or ends 
from tw^o medium sized cucumbers, peel and cut into halves 
lengthwise, scrape out the seeds and lay them in ice w^ater for 
an hour or more; peel one tomato, cut in half and remove the 
seeds; chop the solid part with half slice of onion, one stalk of 
celery and a sprig of parsley until all are fine, and mix them 
with a little mayonnaise dressing. Wipe the cucumber with a 
dry cloth and fill with the chopped mixture, putting a little 
more dressing on top. Cover a small platter with lettuce 
leaves and place the filled cucumbers diagonally across the 
dish, and in serving them cut each piece in half. 

MRS. D. B. SNCDGRASS. 

Ham Salad. Chop fine the remains of a boiled ham, add 
the chopped heart and inside leaves of a head of lettuce; pour 
over it a dressing made as follows: one tablespoon salt, one 
teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon each 
sugar and mustard, one half pint vinegar, yolks of three eggs 
well beaten; boil all together till it creams; when cold, pour 



46 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

over the ham and lettuce and mix well; lastly stir in a cup 
sweet "cream. MRS. M. E. HANKINS. 

Meat Salad. Chop fine cold boiled or roasted meat; add to 
cup vinegar, one tablespoon sugar, one teaspon mustard, one 
egg; beat all together, pour in a granite basin and boil; then 
stir in the meat thoroughly, let cook three minutes, mold in a 
vegetable dish. Slice cold. MRS. M. BURNS. 

Meat Salad. Chop fine cold boiled or roasted meat; add to 
this three hard boiled eggs and two onions (chopped or sliced), 
one teaspoon mustard, vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. 

MRS. T. J. HATFIELD. 

Meat Salad. Four eggs one gill each of cream and vinegar, 
one teaspoon each of mustard, celery seed and salt, one fifth 
teaspoon cayenne pepper, two tablespoons butter; cook thick 
as soft custard (five or six minutes), then add two tablespoons 
powdered and sifted crackers. The celery seed and crackers 
may be omitted and at serving time a pint of celery sliced thin 
may be added. MRS. F. A. HANNIS. 

Nut Salad. Three heads celery sliced fine six hard boiled 
eggs, three sweet-breads boiled, one cup black walnut meats. 
Mix together with a salad dressing. MRS. C. A. McCLOUD. 

Onion Salad. Take light bread crumbs, put in the oven and 
let remain until quite brittle, then run through a sieve. To two 
teacups crumbs add two small onions cut fine. Have ready 
four eggs boiled hard, cut up the whites of two eggs and mix 
with the crumbs; pour on two tablespoons melted butter, sea- 
son with vinegar, black pepper and salt. Add enough luke- 
warm water to work up smooth, then put into a dish and 
press down smooth; take the yolks of the eggs and press 
through the sieve, letting it fall on the salad until it is entirely 
covered by it; take the two whites and cut into rings and half 
circles and place about over the top. Put on top a few parsley 
leaves to add to its appearance. 

MRS. WINIFRED FERGUSON SMITH. 

Potato Salad. Peel and slice salted cold boiled potatoes, 
add one- third as many cold hard boiled eggs sliced. Heat one 
half cup vinegar and a lump of butter, beat the yolks of two 
eggs in a teacup, fill the cup with thick sweet cream, then stir 



SALADS 47 

into the hot vinegar, stirring until it reaches the boiling point, 
then pour over the potatoes; mix well. To be eaten cold. 

MRS. LYDA CLARK. 

Potato Salad. Cut seven potatoes in small slices, also three 
and one cup vinegar; brown one tablespoon each butter and 
lard, pour in the above mixture and cook until thick. Slice 
twelve cold boiled potatoes and cover with the dressing; gar- 
nish the top with four hard boiled eggs. 

MRS. J. E. WHITE. 

Potato Salad. Cut seven potatoes in small slices also three 
onions, add one teaspoon celery seed. Dressing: beat yolks of 
three eggs, one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, one of 
mustard, one tablespoon sugar, one fourth cup vinegar, one 
half cup sour cream; boil a few moments and pour over pota- 
toes. MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

Salmon Salad. One egg, butter one half size of egg, small 
teaspoon mustard mixed with a little water, one half cup vine- 
gar, pepper and salt; boil thick, stirring constantly. Pick the 
bones carefully from the salmon, add some chopped celery and 
cover with the dressing. MRS. HARRISON. 

Sardine Salad. Open a small box of sardines, remove the 
skin and bones and cut them fine; squeeze, over them the juice 
of a lemon, season with salt and pepper, and mound up in the 
middle of a dish. Next put a circle of chopped hard boiled 
eggs, then a circle of dice cut from cold boiled potatoes, and 
last small leaves of lettuce. At the moment of serving, pour 
over a dressing made as follows: yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs mashed to a powder, take three tablespoons sweet or sour 
cream, half teaspoon sugar, half cup vinegar, salt, pepper and 
mustard if you wish it. MRS. JOHN PIERSON. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. Yolks of four raw eggs, one half tea- 
spoon pepper, salt and mustard; beat well and add slowly one 
half cup melted butter or olive oil, then add by the teaspoon- 
ful one half cup vinegar; mix the ingredients, and just before 
serving, pour over the dressing. 

MRS. C. B. OSBORNE. (Atlantic, Iowa.) 

Veal Salad. Two and one-half pounds veal, six heads celery 
chopped, nine eggs boiled hard, two tablespoons butter, three 



48 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

t|Ll)lespoons prepared mustard; rub yolks of eggs, butter and 
mustard together, to this add one egg, one teaspoon salt, two 
tablespoons sugar, three tablespoons cream, one tablespoon 
butter, one cup vinegar; beat dressing together and boil until 
it thickens; add this to egg, butter and mustard; pour over 
veal, celery and the chopped whites of eggs. 

MRS. HATTIE MAPFS. 

Salad Dressing. (Without oil.) One cup vinegar, one half 
cup water, one fourth cup butter, yolks of five or six eggs, one 
tablespoon mustard, one teaspoon sugar, salt and cayenne. 
Boil water and vinegar, beat rest and add. Use it ice cold. 

Salad Dressing. Take two eggs, beat well, add a dessert 
MRS. ANDREW, (Friend, Neb.) 

spoon each of butter and sugar, salt, pepper, two thirds cup 
vinegar, or more; put on stove and let come, to boil, stirring all 
the time; when cold add one cup rich cream. This put on a 
dish of nicely cut cabbage makes a delicious dish. 

MRS. J. W. STEWART. 

Boiled Dressing. Yolks of three eggs beaten, one teaspoon 
mustard, two teaspoons salt, one fourth salt spoon cayenne, 
two tablespoons each sugar and melted butter or oil, one cup 
cream or milk, one half cup vinegar, whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff; cook in double boiler until it thickens like soft 
custard; stir all the time while in boiler. This will keep, in a 
cool place, two weeks. 

EXTRA. — Put in a cool place, and when ready for the 
table whip a cup of thick sweet cream and pour over the top of 
the salad. MRS. F. C. POWER. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. One cup vinegar, one heaping table- 
epoon mustard, salt spoon salt, little pepper, two tablespoons 
white sugar, three whole eggs, butter size of goose egg; put 
the vinegar in double boiler; while it is heating mix the mus- 
tard with a little cold vinegar; add to this the eggs beaten 
separately and very light and also pepper and salt. Pour this 
into the boiling vinegar stirring constantly until it thickens. 
When quite cold thin by adding the same quantity of whipped 
sweet cream. MRS. A. F. BLOOMER. 

Maitra Dressing. An excellent dressing for salads of all 
kinds. One half cup vinegar, three tablespoons sugar; stir 



SALADS 49 

well and put on stove to heat; beat well the yolks of three 
eggs, stir into a cup sour cream; add this to the hot vinegar 
and let boil until thick. Nice on cabbage. 

MRS. C. X. CARPENTER. 
Mayonnaise Dressing;. Five tablespoons vinegar, heat to 
boiling; beat four yolks and one whole egg very light; pour 
boiling vinegar into the egg, stirring all the time; return to 
stove and cook. Put two and one-half teaspoons butter and 
one half cup sugar into the egg and vinegar; then stir until 
the butter melts; mix four teaspoons salt, one teaspoon mus- 
tard, one half teaspoon pepper; with this mixture season 
dressing to taste; when cool, thin with whipped cream. 

MRS. JAY SERVISS. 



PICKLES. 



Bean Pickles. Pick green beans of the best variety when 
young and tender; string and place in a kettle to boil, with 
salt to taste, until they can be pierced with a fork; drain well 
through a colander, put in a stone jar and cover with strong 
vinegar. MRS. MARGARET WASHBURN. 

Bottled Cucumber Pickles. Put small cucumbers in salt 
crater as soon after taken from vines as possible, let them re- 
main in salt water for twenty-four hours. Dissolve a piece of 
alum the size of a hickory nut in three, times as much water as 
there are pickles; when boiling pour over pickles and let stand 
to cool. When cold rinse pickles once in clear, cold water, and 
drain; when dry, pack closely in jar until full; heat good cider 
vinegar to boiling point, pour over pickles, having added to 
vinegar any seasoning desired. Seal tightly. 

MRS. WHITFIELD SANFORD, (Atlantic, Iowa.) 

Chow Chow. (Excellent). One quart tiny cucumbers not 
over two inches long, two quarts very small white onions, two 
quarts tender string beans each one cut in halves, three quarts 
green tomatoes sliced and chopped coarse, two fresh heads of 
cauliflower cut into small pieces, or two heads white, hard 
cabbage. After preparing these articles put them in a stone 
jar, mix them together, sprinkling salt between them sparing- 



50 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

ly; let them stand twenty-four hours, then drain off all the 
brine that has accumulated. Now put these vegetables in a 
preserving kettle over the fire, sprinkling through them an 
ounce of turmeric for coloring, six red peppers chopped coarse, 
four tablespoons mustard seed, two each of celery seed, whole 
allspice, whole cloves, a coffee cup sugar andtwo-thirds teacup 
best ground mixed mustard; pour on enough of the best cider 
vinegar to cover the whole well, cover tightly and simmer 
well until it is cooked all through and seems tender; put in. 
bottles or glass jars. MRS. AMERICA DOAK. 

Chopped Pickles. Five gallons green tomatoes sliced and 
chopped, add one pint salt; after twenty four-hours drain off 
liquor thoroughly; repeat this draining until all juice is 
drawn off. One gallon vinegar, one cup mustard, two table- 
spoons pepper, one tablespoon each ground ginger and cloves; 
bring to a boil put in tomatoes and add two quarts sliced 
onions, three heads cabbage chopped, one dozen each green, 
peppers and cucumbers, one pint grated horseradish, one ounce 
celery seed. MRS. H. A. STEINBACH. 

Cucumber Pickles. (For winter use.) One quart salt, ten 
quarts water, two tablespoons ground pepper, two tablespoons 
pulverized alum; pour boiling water over the cucumbers, let 
them stand until cold, then wash off and put into the brine. 
They will not take more than two changes of water to be ready 
for use. A splendid way to put down cucumbers a few at a 
time. Keep them well under the brine with a heavy board, 
removing all scum each time. MRS. B. F. GRAHAM. 

Fresh Cucumber Pickles. Get small ones of uniform size, 
place in a stone crock, pour boiling water to cover, put in a 
large handful of talt, let stand over night. Drain off in the 
morning, pour on more boiling water and same quantity of 
salt, let stand till the next morning, then drain off the water, 
wash the pickles in clean water and dry with a towel. Put in 
a crock and pour on boiling cider vinegar, then put in small 
pieces of horseradish root. These, pickles will keep in a com- 
mon stone crock all winter. MRS. SHIPMAN. 

Fresh Cucumber Pickles. Select the small cucumbers. For 
one peck make a brine that will bear up an egg; pour over 
the cucumbers and let stand twenty-four hours, then wipe dry. 



PICKLES 51 

Heat two quarts vinegar, one half pint sugar, stick cinnamon, 
v/hole cloves, white mustard seed and celery seed boiling hot; 
pour over cucumbers and bottle. MRS. M. C. PURCELL. 

Green Cucumber Pickles. Scald the* cucumbers by pouring 
boiling water over them three times, then fill the glass jars 
with the cucumbers; now take half as much sugar as vinegar 
and scald together and pour over the cucumbers and add a 
little horseradish, a few grains of spice and seal at once. 

MRS. D. I. HUNTER. 

French Pickles. One peck green tomatoes, six large onions 
sliced, mix together and throw over one teacup salt; let stand 
all night, drain thoroughly and boil in one quart vinegar and 
two quarts water for fifteen minutes and drain again; then 
take three quarts vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one half 
pound white mustard seed, tw^o tablespoons each of cloves, 
spices and cinnamon, and boil fifteen minutes. 

MRS. J. W. STEWART. 

Mustard Pickles. Two quarts green tomatoes, three green 
peppers, two heads cauliflower (cut in small pieces); add 
twenty-four cucumbers, two quarts small onions. Let stand 
over night in half cup salt and water enough to cover. In the 
morning heat them in some water; drain and pour over them 
the following mixture (hot): three quarts cider vinegar, four 
cups sugar, two teaspoons celery seed, half pound ground mus- 
tard, three fourths cup flour, one fourth ounce turmeric. 

MRS. CLARA M. SEDGWICK. 

Pickled Beets. Take nice' young beets, cook as for the table 
and while hot put them in fruit cans. Have ready and hot, 
cider vinegar reduced one fourth, and to one quart vinegar 
add one heaping cup sugar, fill the cans and seal same as fruit. 
Small cans are best. MRS. REUBEN CLARK. 

Pickled Onions. Select small silver skinned onions, remove 
outer skin, put them in a brine (that will float an egg) for 
three days, drain, place in a jar first a layer of onions three 
inches deep, tnen a sprinkling of horse radish, cinnamon bark, 
cloves and a little cayenne pepper; repeat till jar is filled, in 
proportion of half a teaspoon cayenne pepper, two teaspoons 
each chopped horseradish and cloves and four tablespoons cin- 
namon bark to a gallon of pickles. Bring vinegar to boiling 



52 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

point; add brown sugar in the proportion of a quart to a gal- 
lon, and pour hot over the pickles. MRS. BALDWIN. 

Pickled Onions. Pegl small white onions, scald them in salt 
and water until tender; then take them up, put into bottles and 
pour over them hot spiced vinegar; when cold, cork them close. 
Keep in a dry, dark place. MRS. AMERICA DOAK. 

Pickled Cherries. For four pounds cherries take one pound 
sugar, one pint vinegar. Boil the sugar and vinegar together 
and pour over fruit; let it set two days, then boil the juice 
again. Repeat likewise six times. MRS. HAGGARD. 

Pickled Crab Apples. Ten pounds fruit, four pounds sugar, 
one quart vinegar, cloves and cinnamon; leave the apples 
whole and the stems on; boil in syrup until soft. 

MRS. E. D. MARSELLUS. 

Pickled Peaches. Rub off down, fill steamer, place over 
boiling water fifteen minutes, steam till they can be punctured 
with a fork, but not till they crack open; put in an earthern 
jar, sticking three or four cloves in each one; when jar is full 
pour over them boiling vinegar, spiced with cinnamon in a bagr 
and one pound of sugar to one quart vinegar. 

MRS. J. M. DAVIDSON. 

Pickled Peaches. Seven pounds free stone peaches, three 
and one half pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, half cup water, 
one teaspoon whole cloves, double the quantity of stick cin- 
namon; steam peaches until they can be pierced with a straw; 
then remove immediately and skin. Boil vinegar, sugar, water 
and spices together for five minutes or until well heated; put 
a whole clove in each peach, scald fruit in syrup, place in jars, 
pour over enough of the hot syrup without adding any of the 
spice, and seal. MRS. D. C. BELL. 

Piccalilli.. (Very good.) Slice one peck green tomatoes, 
sprinkle with small cup of salt; stand over night. In the 
morning drain; chop the tomatoes, one cabbage head, seven 
onions, four green peppers; put into a kettle, and cover with 
one gallon vinegar, one pint brown sugar, half teacup horsera- 
dish, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, mace and celery seed. 
Cook this mixture slowly for two or three hours, then as it 
comes off the stove add one hundred or more small pickles 



PICKLES 53 

(or these can be o^nitted); add one quarter pound mustard 
last, as it is apt to thicken it and cause it to burn if put in 
at first. This quantity fills a two gallon jar. 

MRS. W. D. MEAD, Jr. 

Sliced Cucumber Pickles. Take medium sized cucumbers, 
put them into a jar or pail. Put in enough boiling water to 
cover them, add a small handful of salt and cover closely. 
Repeat this three mornings; the fourth morning scald enough 
cider vinegar to cover them, putting into it a piece of alum as 
large as a walnut, teacup horseradish root cut fine; add 
ground spices (tied in muslin bags) to suit taste. Slice cu- 
cumbers half an inch thick, place them in glass jars and pour 
the scalding vinegar over them. Seal tight and they will keep 
good a year or more. MRS. MARY B. PROVOST. 

Sliced Mixed Pickles. Twenty-four small cucumbers three 
onions (small) ; slice and cover with six tablespoons of salt; 
let stand four hours, then drain. Three fourths cups white 
mustard seed, one half cup black mustard seed, one and one- 
half teaspoons celery seed, one cup salad oil, one and one-half 
quarts vinegar; mix all together and put into cans cold. 

MRS. D. C. ELDREDGE. 

. Soy. Take any amount of tomatoes wanted, chop them same 
as for piccalilli, drain well, put in a kettle and add two tea- 
cups sugar, one tablespoon cloves and cinnamon, and one of 
black pepper; cover with vinegar, and cook slowly for three 
or four hours; add onions if liked. If vinegar boils out add 
more so that it will be covered; put in cans and seal. 

MRS. MARY O. BROOKS. 

Spanish Pickle. One dozen ripe cucumbers, one peck onions, 
one ounce celery seed, one ounce turmeric two and one-half 
pounds brown sugar, one and one-half pounds ground mustard 
four heads cabbage, two gallons vinegar. Chop cucumbers 
fine and let stand in brine twenty-four hours; chop cabbage 
and onions and salt them over night, then put all three in a 
kettle with vinegar enough to cover and let all scald together 
good; then pour in a sack and let drain; put back in kettle on 
stove and add the other ingredients, except mustard, and 
enough fresh vinegar to cover all again; mix mustard to a 
paste, and keep putting in till thick enough. 

MRS. M. M. WIDENER. 



54 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Spanish Pickle. Two large heads cabbage, one peck green 
tomatoes, two dozen onions, half dozen green peppers; salt well 
and let stand over night, then drain. To one gallon vinegar 
add three quarters of a pound ground mustard, five cups brown 
sugar; let this boil, then put in chopped vegetables, heat 
thoroughly, then add one ounce turmeric moistened, with a 
little vinegar. MRS. G. W. SHIDLER. 

Mustard Pickle. One quart each of small whole cucumbers, 
large cucumbers sliced, green tomatoes sliced, and small 
cnions, one large cauliflower divided into flowerets, half 
dozen stalks celery cut in small pieces and four green peppers 
cut fine. Make a brine of four quarts of water and one pint 
of salt; pour it over the mixture of vegetables and let it soak 
twenty-four hours. Heat just enough to scald it, and turn 
into a colander to drain. Mix three quarters of a cup of corn 
starch, four tablespoons ground mustard and one teaspoon 
turmeric with enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste, 
then add one. cup sugar and sufficient vinegar to make two 
quarts in all. Boil this mixture until it thickens and is 
smooth, stirring all the time, then add the vegetables and cook 
until well heated through. MRS. W. L. MORGAN. 

Spiced Gooseberries. Leave the stem and blossom on ripe 
gooseberries, wash clean, make a syrup of three pints brown 
sugar to one of vinegar, skim if necessary, add berries and boil 
down till thick, adding more sugar if needed. When almost 
done spice with cinnamon and cloves; boil as thick as apple 
butter. MRS. J. LOVE. 

Spiced Peaches. One peck peaches, four pounds sugar, one 
tablespoon each cloves and cinnamon, two quarts vinegar, 
three nutmegs; pare the peaches and place in layers in a jar 
with the spices; boil sugar and vinegar together and pour 
over three days in succession, and on the fourth day boil all to- 
gether twenty minutes. MISS HATTIE SOUTHWORTH. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. Wash and clean fruit, then prepare 
a sweetened vinegar of the following: one and one-half cups 
vinegar, two cups waterf two cups sugar and two small bags 
of cloves and stick cinnamon. Put in the tomatoes and boil 
until they can be pricked with a fork. Have ready another 
preparation of the same quantity of vinegar, sugar and spices 



PICKLES 55 

(only a little stronger of vinegar), boiling hot. As fast as the 
jars are filled pour on the scalding vinegar and seal. Apples 
are very nice this way but they must first be steamed until 
done, then put in the sweetened vinegar as before. 

MRS. B. F. MARSHALL. 

AA'atermelon Pickles. One quart cidar vinegar; scald three 
times and pour over the pickles, then pour off; add one pint 
each of water and sugar, one tablespoon cloves five cents' 
worth cinnamon; boil all these together and pour over the 
fruit; let this last preparation stay. These are excellent. 

MRS. M. C. HICE. 

Watermelon Sweet Pickles. Soak eight pounds of rind over 
night in alum water; in the morning turn this water off, pour 
over clear water to cover and let soak one hour. Syrup: one 
quart vinegar, four pounds light brown sugar, one tablespoon 
each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice; boil this eight morning® 
and pour over the fruit, the ninth morning heat fruit and syrup 
together and the pickles will be ready for use. 

MRS. J. A. PARKS. 



CATSUP. 
CHILI SAUCE, ETC. 



Cucumber Catsup. Take cucumbers before seeds are large. 
One gallon grated cucumbers salted to taste and put in a sack 
to drain over night. Measure the drippings, do not use them, 
but take the same amount of vinegar and add to the grated 
cucumber. Add also black pepper and more salt if needed. 

MRS. D. E. SEDGWICK. 

Plum. Catsup. Eight pounds plums, one. pound sugar, one 
quart vinegar, and spices. Cook plums till tender, then rub 
through a colander, add other ingredients and cook about one 
half hour. MRS. T. J. HATFIELD. 

Bordeaux Sauce. Two gallons cabbage chopped fine, one 
gallon green tomatoes one of vinegar, one gill salt, one and 
three-fourths pounds sugar, one half pound white mustard 



56 THE YORiv COOK BOOK. 

seed, one dozen onions (if preferred), one ounce each of celery 
seed, black pepper, cloves, allspice and turmeric. Boil all 
together twenty minutes and can. 

MRS. E. A. WARNER. 

Chili Sauce. Twelve large ripe tomatoes, four ripe or three 
green peppers or one tablespoon ground black pepper, two 
onions, two tablespoons salt, two tablespoons sugar, one table- 
spoon cinnamon, three cups vinegar; peel tomatoes and onions, 
chop (separately) very fine, add the peppers (chopped) with 
the other ingredients, boil one and a half hours. Bottle and it 
will keep a long time. Stone jars or jugs are better than glass 
cans. One quart canned tomatoes may be used instead of the 
ripe ones. MRS, P. P. VAN WIGKLE. 

Chili Sauce. Take one can nice tomatoes, half teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, one onion cut fine, half cup sugar. Boil un- 
til thick, then add two cups vinegar, strain the. whole, set back 
on the fire and add a tablespoon salt, teaspoon each ginger, 
allspice, cloves rnd cinnamon; boil five minutes, remove and 
put in bottles. MRS. .1. A. DIEFFENBACHER. 

Chili Sauce. Tvventy-four ' large tomatoes, eight onions, 
four green peppers, four tablespoons each of salt and ginger, 
one of cloves, eight of sugar, four teaspoons cinnamon,- eight 
cups vinegar. Boil until thick. MRS. LINNIE B. CLARKE. 

Uncooked Chili Sauce. One half peck solid ripe tomatoes 
chopped fine, one half cup salt, one cup sugar; chop fine two 
cups celery, and two onions, two small red peppers, one cup 
white mustard seed, one tablespoon black pepper, one table- 
spoon cinnamon, one quart vinegar. Mix all together and put 
in a jar and tie cloth over. MRS. R. H. DEVER. 

Cold Chili Sauce. One peck ripe tomatoes chopped fine, one 
half cup grate horseradish, one half cup salt, one cup nastur- 
tium seed (chopped fine,) one cup mustard seed, one half cup 
chopped onions, one cup brown sugar, one quart vinegar, two 
red peppers (chopped fine), three stalks celery, one teaspoon 
black pepper, one tablespoon ground cinnamon, one-half table- 
spoon cloves. . Mix well and bottle without cooking. War- 
ranteed to keep a year. MRS. T. J. BURTON. 

Tomato Catsup. One-half bushel ripe tomatoes, four ounces 
salt, three ounces ground b^ack pepper, one ounce cinnamon, 



PIES 57 

one-half ounce ground -cloves and one gallon vinegar. Stew 
the tomatoes in their own liquor until soft and rub through 
sieve; boil to consistency of apple butter (very thick), stir- 
ring to prevent burning, then add the vinegar with which a 
small teacup of sugar and spices have been mixed. Boil five 
minutes, let cool and bottle. MRS. ORRIN BARNETT. 



PIES. 



Pie Crust. One and one-half cups flour, half cup butter, 
or trifle less of lard; mix lard in flour with fork, add a little 
ealt and bind all together with three tablespoons of water. 
Do not handle much; roll from you. This is enough for a two 
crust pie. MRS. D. C. BELL. 

Apple Pie. Line a pie pan. .with nice rich crust; slice six 
good cooking apples thin, put in tin with one cup sugar, table- 
spoon butter, two tablespoons vinegar; put on upper crust past- 
ing with sweet milk and bake slow. MRS F. E. FENDER. 

Apple Custard Pie. Select two juicy apples of a mild flavor, 
pare and scrape to a pulp; cream together one cup sugar and 
a tablespoon butter, to which add salt spoon nutmeg, the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, one cup milk and the scraped apples. 
Line a plate with crust and bake until acne. Beat the whites 
of the two eggs, add two tablespoons sugar and pile it lightly 
on the pie. Brown it slightly in the oven. Drisd a])ple.3 are 
equally good in this pie. MRS. OLIVE DURHAM. 

• Apple T.i:t Pie. Line a pie tin with rich pie crust; fill with 
good baking apples pared and cut in halves, place the halves 
close together with the flat side down. Put a piec? of butter 
the size of a walnut on each half apple, and cover with suffi- 
cient sugar to sweeten. Sprinkle over a little ground cinnamon 
and bake wiihout upper crust in a moderate oven. 

MRS. WILLIAM KREMSER. 

Beverly Pie. Pare and grate some sweet mellow apples; to 
a pint of the grated pulp use a pint of milk, two eggs, two 
tablespoons melted butter, the grated peel of one lemon and 



5 8 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

lialf wine glass of cider; sweeten to taste; bake in a deep pan 
with only one crust. MISS NELLIE CHAPMAN. 

Chocolate Pie. One coffee cup sweet milk, three grated tea- 
spoons chocolate, three fourths cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, 
two tablespoons flour; flavor with vanilla. Heat milk and 
chocolate, then add sugar and yolks beaten to a cream. Put 
in a pie tin well lined with crust and bake. Beat whites for 
frosted top and brown. MRS. KATE B. NORTHUP. 

Chocolate Pie. Four tablespoons grated chocolate, one pint 
water, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons corn starch, six table- 
spoons sugar. Boil until thick; add one teaspoon extract of 
vanilla. Bake the crust, pour in chocolate, beat whites of eggs, 
with one cup of sugar, spread over top and brown. 

MRS. CLARA B. DAYTON. 

Cocoaiiiit Pie. To the yolks of three eggs add two table- 
spoons sugar and one of flour, beat thoroughly, add two cups 
milk and half cup freshly grated cocoanut. Pour into two pie 
tins lined with rich pie crust and bake in a moderate oven. 
While baking beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add 
three tablespoons sugar and half cup grated cocoanut. When 
pies are done spread this on them and return to the oven to 
brown. Serve cold. MRS. WARREN LANCASTER. 

Boston Cream Pie. One pint milk, half cup sugar, two 
tablespoons corn starch, yolks of two eggs, pinch of salt; flavor 
with vanilla; boil quickly until thick; bake a brown crust; 
when done pour in cream; beat the whites of eggs, sweeten 
a little put on top of pie and place in oven to brown. 

MRS. ALICE WASHBURN. 

Cream Pie. Beat thoroughly together the whites of two 
eggs, half cup sugar and tablespoon flour; then add a cup of 
rich milk (some use part cream), grate a little nutmeg over 
it and bake with one crust. 

MRS MARGARET WASHBURN. 

Cream Pie. Teacup and half of sugar, one large tablespoon 
flour stirred in the sugar, nutmeg to flavor. Pour over this one 
pint of cream, add the whites of three eggs and beat well. 
Bake without an upper crust. MRS. F. E. FENDER. 



PIES 59 

.Cream Pie. For two pies take three and a half cups sweet 
milk, four eggs; save the whites for top; one tablespoon corn 
starch, six teaspoons sugar, butter the size of an egg. Flavo? 
with lemon. MRS WILL DEAN. 

Cream Pie. For the crust: — one egg one cup sugar with 
lump of butter the size of an egg rubbed into it, one-half cup 
milk in whicn dissolve half teaspoon soda, one and one-half 
cups flour. Sift well through the flour one teaspoon baking 
powder and a little salt; bake in three tins. Cream for filling: 
one egg, half cup sugar, quarter of a cup flour; wet the flour 
with a little milk, then stir it into one cup of boiling milk, 
add the sugar and a small pinch of salt; stir till thick and 
smooth. Filling for one pie. MISS NELLIE SOVEREIGN. 

Custard Pie. (Material for one.) Take six eggs (save 
whites of two for frosting), beat them well, add one and one 
half pints sweet milk, five tablespoons sugar, flavor with van- 
illa and bake in large pie tin with crust raised high around 
the edges. Beat whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth; add 
tablespoon sugar, spread over top of pie after it is baked and 
then put in oven and brown. 

MRS. AMANDA J. KENNEDY. 

Lemon Pie. Five eggs for two pies; save whittes for frost- 
ing; one cup sugar, one tablespoon corn starch in sugar, one 
lemon, grated yellow and juice, one teaspoon butter, mix with 
cold water and cook until thick. When cold put in crusts al- 
ready baked. MRS. M. C. HICE. 

Lemon Pie. One cup sugar, one of milk, three eggs, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon flour and the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon. Reserve the whites of the eggs 
and after the pie is baked spread them on the top, beaten 
lightly with two tablespoons sugar and return to the oven to 
brown slightly. MRS. C. E. HAGAR. 

Lemon Pie. For three pies use three pints water, one and 
a half cups sugar, lump of butter size of walnut, one lemon, 
three heaping tablespoons flour, yolks of four eggs. Beat well 
together and cook to a paste. Bake crust and pour the paste 
in. For frosting beat the whites of the eggs with one cup 
sugar until stiff. Spread over pies and set in the oven a min- 
ute to brown. . MRS. ROBERT JAMES. 



60 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Pie. To the. grated rind and juice of one lemon add 
one cup sugar and one cup cold water. In another dish put the 
yolks of two eggs, two heaping tablespoons flour, butter the size 
of a hulled walnut and enough water to make a smooth paste. 
Mix both preparations and bake in one crust. When done, put 
on top, a meringue of the beaten whites of two eggs and two 
leaspoon sugar. Return to oven to brown slightly. 

MRS. G. L. VAN FLEET. 

Lemon Pie. One cup cugar, two tablespoons corn starch, 
one cup boiling water, one lemon, one egg, butter size of an 
egg; beat corn starch, butter, grated rind and juice of lemon 
into a smooth paste, pour over boiling water and cook until 
clear. Set it where it will become cold. When cold add the 
yolk of the egg and bake in one crust, using the white of the 
egg with sugar for icing. MRS. JAMES BARR. 

Lemon Pie. One cup sugar, two tablespoons flour thor- 
oughly mixed wilh sugar, yolks three eggs, white of one, juice 
of two lemons, one and one-fourth cups water; cook in double 
boiler, stir constantly until thick. Put in rich paste and lake 
in quick oven. Beat two remaining whites to stiff froth, add 
two tablespoons pulverized sugar, spread on pie and brown. 

MRS CLYDE WATERMAN. 

Lemon Cream Pie. One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
3'olk of two eggs, juice and grated rind of one lemon, cne cup 
boiling water, one tablespoon corn starch dissolved in cold wat- 
er stir corn starch into the hot water; add the butter and 
sugar well beaten together; when cool add lemon and beaten 
egg s. Bake without top crust; beat the whi es to a stiff frotb, 
sweeten to taste and cover top of pie when done; return to 
oven and brown a little MRS. LAURA M. KNAPP. 

Two Crust Lomcn Pie. Two small slices bread, one and one- 
half cups boiling water and one cup sugar. Let these ingre- 
dients come to a boil, then mash finely and add one egg, the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon and two tablespoons corn 
starch dissolved in a little water. If the mixture i? too 
thick, add a little water. MRS. B. F. MARSHALL. 

Mince Meat. Three bowls finely chopped meat, five of ap- 
ples, one of vinegar, one of sweet cidar, one of chopped suet 
or butter, two of raisins, five of sugar (or four and one bowl 



PIES 61 

molasses,) two tablespoons each of cinnamon, nutmeg and 
cloves, one tablespoon each salt and pepper, three lemons 
f grate in the outside and squeeze in juice.) Add all but the 
spices and cook till done, putting in spices just before taking 
from fire. Scald the suet after it is chopped. If not thin 
enough use vinegar and water. This makes three gallons. 

MRS IDALETTE WOODS. 

Mince Meat. Chop fine two pounds lean beef after it has 
been cooked, one pound suet, five pounds apples, one pound 
raisins whole, two pounds raisins (seedless) or currents, half 
pound citron chopped fine, tw^o and cn:-half pounds brown 
sugar, two tablespoons each of cinnamon and cloves (ground), 
one tablespoon allspice (ground), one tablespoon salt, one 
nutmeg, one quart sweet cidar, or nice vinsgar can b3 used; 
mix and cook until apple is done. Add anything else in the 
line of fruit, jam or jelly. MRS. LAURA M. KNAPP. 

Mince Meat. One cup meat, one cup cider, one half cup 
meat drippings, one half cup chopped raisins, one half cup 
whole raisins seeded, two cups sour apples (chopped), one half 
cup molasses, one teaspoon each of salt, cinnamon, allspice, 
nutmeg, and cloves (ground). 

MRS AMADA .J. KENNEDY. 

Mince Meat Withciit Meat. One pound suet, two pounds 
apples, one pound raisins, one pound currants and half pound 
citron chopped fine, one pound brown sugar, two grated nut- 
megs, two tablespoons vinegar, one fourth pint molasses, one 
wine glass boiled sv,eet cider; mix all together and it is ready 
for use. MRS. I. N. BAGNELL. 

Mock Mince Pies. One cup each of bread crumbs (or rpUed 
crackers,) vinegar, water, raisins, sugar and molasses, half cup 
butter, one teaspoon each of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon. 
This quantity is sufficient for three pies. They are quite as 
good as those made in the usual way. MRS. A. E. OVIATT. 

Orange Pie. The yolks of three eggs beaten until quite 
light, five tablespoons white sugar, the juice of two and the 
grated rind one orange, a little salt and one cup cream or milk. 
Mix all well together, then aid the whites beaten to a stiff froth 
and stir lightly. If the milk is used instead of cream put in 
a small piece of butter. Bake with an under crust. 

MRS. T. L. DAVIES. 



62 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Oi'ange Pie. Three eggs, one cup each of sugar and sweet 
cream, two tablespoons flour or one level tablespoon cornstarch, 
two oranges, two tablespoons melted butter. Leave out two 
whites of the eggs, beat them, add a little sugar, and when the 
pie is done spread over it and set in the oven to brown. 

MRS. IRA A. SMITH. 

Vie Plant Pie. One cup pie plant (cooked), one cup sugar, 
yolks of two eggs stirred together, teaspoon butter, tablespoon 
flour. Bake, with under crust and frosted top. 

MISS MAUDE PRATT. 

Peach Pie. Rich pastry; fill with ripe juicy psaches peeled 
and cut in quarters, sprinkle well with sugar, cover with a thin 
crust; bake one half hour. Serve cold. 

MRS ROBERT JAMES. 

Pumpkin Pie. One. can of Oneida pumpkin, four eggs, two 
cups sugar, one teaspoon each ginger and cinnamon, half cup 
molasses, one pint milk, two tablespoons melted butter and salt 
tc taste. Bake crust a little first. MRS ROBT. McGINNIS. 

Pumpkin Pie. Prepare the. pumpkin and take for one pie 
one egg, half pint rich milk, a little salt, half cup sugar and 
three tablespoons pumpkin; stir well together and season with 
nutmeg, cinnamon or cloves. Bake in under crust. 

MRS FRED JAMES. 

Kaisin Pie. One cup raisins chopped fine, one large lemon 
chopped fine, two cups sugar, two cups water, two tablespoons, 
flour and four eggs well mixed. This will make two pies. 

MRS M. BURNS. 

Raisin Pie. One lemon, juice and rind, one cup water, one 
cup sugar, one cup rolle..! crackers, one cup saeded raisins. 

MRS. J. A. BRUNER. 

Khubarb Pie. Line a pie tin with rich pie dough; put halt 
cup sugar and tablespoon flour on this crust then flll the pan 
with finely cut rhubarb; on this put half cup sugar and tea- 
spoon flour, cover with crust. Bake in slow oven about forty 
minutes. MRS JAY SERVISS. 



PIES 63 

Transparent Pie. Three, eggs, save whites for top, one cup 
sugar half cup butter, two heaping tablespoons jelly; beat 
well and bake like a custard pie. MRS. WILL DEAX. 

Transparent Pie. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, yolks of 
ten eggs, a small quantity of nutmeg; beat well together and 
bake without upper crust. MRS. A. C. SNYDER. 

Banbury Tarts. Pie crust rolled very thin and cut in about 
two inch squares. Filling: one cup seeded raisins chopped fine, 
juice of half a lemon, half cup sugar; mix together, put a tea- 
spoonful on each square and pinch the two opposite corners to- 
gether. Bake in hot oven. MRS L. F. ANDREWS. 



SHORT CAKES, ETC. 



Baked Apple Dumplings. Pare, quarter and core the apples, 
make a rich, stiff biscuit dough, roll and cut in strips; take 
four pieces of apple for each dumpling and wrap two or three 
strips of dough around them, pinching the ends together. 
Put a quart of water in a pudding or baking dish, one cup sugar 
and a small piece butter; let it boil on top of the stove, then 
place the dumplings in and bake till crust and apples are done. 
Serve with cream and sugar. MRS. SHIPMAN. 

Peach Rolls. . . Stew dried peaches or any kind of dried fruit 
and sw^eeten to taste. Make a good baking powder crust, roll 
thin and spread on fruit, well mashed. Roll crust up and place 
in a pan four or five inches deep. To two or three rolls add 
one cup sugar and one half cup butter. Pour in hot water 
enough to cover them and bake one half hour. This makes it 
own sauce. MRS. I. X. BAGXELL. 

Orange Short Cake. Two tablespoons butter, three of sugar, 
two eggs, two thirds cup milk, two cups flour, and two tea- 
spoons baking powder, l^ake in two round tins. Slice six or 
eight oranges, sprinkle thickly with sugar and place between 
the layers. Same recipe can be used for strawberries, 

MRS. J. H. COWELL. 



64 THE YORK COoK BOOK. 

Peach Short Cake. Half cup milk, two tablespoons sugar, 
cne tablespoon butter, one full cup flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, yolk of one egg. Mix butter, sugar and yolk of egg, 
add milk and stir in flour with baking powder. Cut the cake 
through and placs fruit between, if desired, or. place fruit on 
cake, bottom side up, and have meringue on top, (whites of 
two eggs will make a meringue). Any kind of fresh berries 
may be used, or preserved fruits in the winter time. Use pre- 
served fruit without juice as you would the fresh. Pinapphs 
can be chopped. MRS. A. L SNOW. 

Strawberry Short Cake. One pint gooi sweet cream one 
quart flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder. Sift flour 
and baking powder together, mix soft, roll thin to fit a pie tin. 
Lay one layer on top of another, with plenty of butter between. 
Rake in quick oven, separate the layers, sweeten berries to 
taste, crush well and spread between layers and on top. Serve 
with cream. MRS. LYDIA CLARK. 

Strawberry Short Cake. One and one-half cups flour, a 
piece of butter size of walnut or more, a tablespoon granu- 
lated sugar, two teaspoons baking powder and milk to mix. 

MRS. B. P. LANG. 



PUDDINGS. 



Apple riiddiiijj;. Pare and elice five good sized tart apples 
m a pudding dish; make a pastry of one half cup cream or 
melted butter one leaspocnful, one cup sweet milk, one and 
cne-half teaspoons baking powder; add flour until it will drop 
from the spoon, not to stiff; drop over the apples, sprinkle with 
sugar and baKe until apples are cooked. To be eaten with 
cream and sugar. M.^S. L. M. STREET. 

Baked Intlian Puddin.n'. One quart sweet milk, one ounce 
butter, three well beaten eggs, one cup Indian meal; sweeten 
to taste; scali the milk and stir in the meal while boiling, let 
stand until cool, then stir in the other ingredients. Bake orb 
and one-half hours. MRS. MARY CHESSMAN. 

Ba.kecl Indian Piuldiiiii,'. One quart milk; when scalding hot 
stir in nine, tablespoons corn meal, let come to a bcil, ta\e it 



PUDDINGS 65 

from stove and add one half teacup molasses, piece of buiter 
size of an egg, one pint cold milk, teaspoon cinnamon, a little 
salt. Bake one day in a moderate oven. 

MRS. W. A. CARPENTER. 

Brown Betty. Peel and slice apples; butter an earthen dish, 
put in a layer bread crumbs, then a layer apples and sprinkle 
with brown sugar; continue in this way until the dish is filled, 
using bread crumbs for the top layer; before putting in the 
oven add some butter. Either a hard or soft sauce eaten with, 
it is nice. MRS. BELLE HUNTER. 

Brown I'luldin^'. Mix onehalf cup molasses, one fourth cup 
butter, one egg, three quarters cup sweet milk, half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon baking powder, one. and one-half cups gra- 
ham flour, one cup raisins, spice to suit taste. Steam in a dish 
from one to two hours. Serve with sauce. 

MRS. 1. N. BAGNELL. 

Bread Pudding. (Superior.) One and one-half cups white 
eugar, two of fine bread crumbs, five, eggs, two tablespoons 
butter, two of rosewater or lemon flavoring (Eddy's Triple 
Extract), one quart rich milk and a cup of jelly or jam. Stir 
butter and sugar to a cream, beat the yolks very light, mix 
with butter and sugar; the bread crumbs with half teaspoon 
baking powder soaked in milk, come next. Beat all together 
until very light and bake in a buttered pudding dish until the 
.custard is set; spread with the jam, cover this with a meringue 
made of the whipped whites and a half cup sugar. Beat until 
the meringue begins to color. Serve with warm sauce. 

MRS. AMERICA DOAK. 

Cabinet Puddino'. Butter well the inside of a puddiug mold, 
have ready a cup of chopped citron, raisins and currants. 
Sprinkle some of this fruit on the bottom of the mold, then 
slices of stale sponge cake; shake over this some spices, cinna- 
mon, cloves and nutmeg, then fruit again, and cake, until the 
mold is nearly full. Make a custard of a quart of milk, four 
eggs, pinch of salt, two teaspoons melted butter; pour this over 
the cake without cooking it; let it stand and soak one hour, 
then steam one hour and a halif. Serve with sauce or a cus- 
tard. MRS J. S. BROWN. 



<66 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Chocolate Pudding. One quar t milk, two cups bread 
crumbs, one cup sugar, three tablespoons grated chocolate, 
j-olks of five eggs, whites of two. Soak the bread crumbs in 
milk for an hour before adding the rest, then bake until stiff. 
Make a meringue of the whites of three eggs and five table- 
spoons sugar and brown delicately in the oven. 

MRS. IDA NILES. 

Chinese Fun. One teacup molasses, one of sour milk, three 
of flour, one of raisins, one teaspoon soda, half teaspoon each 
cloves and cinnamon; put in a buttered l)ag large enough to 
permit rising and tie up tightly. Steam three hours steadily 
without disturbing. Make a sauce with one pint water, one 
cup sugar, piece of butter size of walnut; bring to a boil and 
thicken with an even tablespoon flour. Flavor with lemon or 
cinnamon extract. (Eddy's Triple Extract). 

MRS. GEO. REED. 

Cherry Pudding. One cup sour cream, one of sweet milk, 
one egg, one teaspoon soda, one cup fruit and flour enough for 
thick batter, adding fruit last. Bake in a buttered baking dish 
and serve with sugar and cream. MRS. T. L. DAVIES. 

Cocoanut Pudding. One pint rich milk, two tablespoons 
corn starch, whites of four eggs, half cup sugar, a little salt; 
put the milk over the fire; when boiled add the corn starch 
wet with cold milk, then add sugar, lastly the eggs and one 
cup cocoanut. MRS. MINNIE DEVINE. 

Custard Pudding. An excellent way to use up the yolks of 
eggs left from making Angel's Food is by adding to thsm one 
quart of milk, three fourths cup sugar; stir well, flavor with 
nutmeg and bake. MRS. E. J. WIGHTM\N. 

Fruit Pudding. One cup tapioca washed wtU an 3 put to 
soak over night in four cups water; steam one hour; one glass 
of some bright colored jelly, plum bitter or jam, l^alf cup 
sugar, half teaspoon salt stirred well into the hot tapioca; turn 
into cups after they have been dipped in cold water and set 
away to harden, serve with cream and sugar. 

MR?. SADIE CHILCOTE. 



PUDDINGS 6 7 

Ginger Pudding. One cup molasses, ha'f cup each sugar 
and butter, teaspoon ginger, teacup hot water, two cups flour, 
cup currants. Bake slowly. Seive with a sauce made of one 
cup sugar, one tablespoon of flour, one cup hot water, ore 
tablespoon butter, flavor to taste with Edly's Triple Extracts, 
Stir sugar and flour together, then add hot water. 

MRS. MINNIE DEVINE. 

Goosbcry Pudding. Fill buttered pudding dish two-thirds 
full of buttered sliges of brjad, with a layer oi: gooseberries 
between; beat together four egTs and one cup sugar, add one 
and one-half pints sweet milk, a littls nulmeg, pour ovei- the 
bread and bike in a quick ovan forty minutes. 

MRS. LISSIE ROBERTS NEWMAN. 

Graham Pudding. One and one-half cups graham flour, 
half cup brown sugar, fourth cup butter, half cup sweet milk» 
one egg, one teaspoon soda, one tup stoned raisins or same 
amount of dried cherries or peiches. Steam two hours and 
serve with hot sauce. MRS. HELEN DIBBLE. 

Grandma's Pudding. One cup each gcoi molasses, sweet 
milk and raisins, three cups flour, half cup butter, teaspoon 
each soda and cinnamon, half teaspoon clove?. Mix to a stiff 
batter well beaten; steam two hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

MRS. L. S. FERGUSON. 

Ice Cream Pudding. Three heaping tablespoons corn starch 
a small pinch of salt and one tablespoon sugar; stir until 
smooth with as little cold water as possible then add one 
and one-half pints boiling watar and stir until it is thoroughly 
cooked, then stir in the well beaten whites Ol three eggs and 
pour into cups or molds to cool. The dr ssing: To one cup 
of sweet milk (boiling hot) add one cup sugar, half cup b itter^ 
yolks of three eggs and one tablespoon Eddy's Triple Extract 
of vanilla; stir over the fire for a minute only. When white 
part is cold remove from the molds and pour the dressing over. 
Eat cold. MRS. IDA NILES. 

Lemon Pudding. One pint sweet cream, sic eggs beaten 
very light; mix with the cream one large cup sugar and grated 
rind of two lemons; line a dish with p:ste, pour the mixture 
in and bake. MRS. W. L. DAVIS. 



68 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Pudding. Two cups bread* crumbs, one quart milk, 
one. cup sugar, one. lemon, one tablespoo i butter, yolks of two 
eggs; bake. Beat whites for top and brown in oven. Ssrve 
with sauce. MRS. MINNIE DEVINE. 

Orange Pudding. Peel three large oranges cut in thin slices, 
removing the seeds; put in a pudding dish and sprinkle over 
one teacup sugar; beat the yolks of two eggs with one table- 
spoon corn starch and two of sugar. Add a quarler teaspoon 
salt and stir it into a pint boiling milk. As soon as it thickers 
remove from the fire and when cool spread over the. oranges; 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with two heaping 
tablespoons powdered sugar; put over the. pudding and brown 
slightly in a hot oven. Serve cold. MRS. MINNIE DEVINE. 

Orange Pudding. Peel and cut five sweet orang s into thin 
slices, taking out all seeds; put over them a coffee cup of fine 
white sugar. Let a pint of milk get b:;iling hot by setting in 
hot water; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one table- 
spoon corn starch made, smooth in a little cold milk; stir all 
the time, and as soon as it thickens pour it over the fruit. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, aid a tablespoon of sugar and 
spread it over the top for frosting. Set in oven a minute. 
Serve when cold. MRS C. S. EDWARDS. 

Plum Pudding. One pound each stoned raisins and currants, 
one half pound citron peel, one pound beef suet, one half 
pound each flour, bread crumbs and brown sugar, one nutmeg, 
one teaspoon salt, five eggs, rind (grated) and juice of one 
lemon, one wineglass grape ju"ce. Mix these well together 
with the hands. If it seems too ttiff add a very little milk. 
It should be so that it will make a ball without falling to 
pieces. Boil five to seven hours — the longer the richer. 
Place in bows within one half inch of top. Tie a cloth tightly 
over. Are just as good steamed. After being boiel these 
puddings will keep good several wesks. Boil again for one 
or two hours when wanted. Be careful to select best fruit. 

MRS. J. F. FERGUSON. 

Baked Plum Pudding. Eight crackers rolled fine, four eggs 
w'ell beaten, a quart of milk, three fourths cup sugar, two 
tablespoons butter, little salt, one fourth nutmeg, half teaspoon 



PUDDINGS 69 

cinnamon, a pound raisins, seeded; mix all but eggs, then add 
them beaten very light. Bake an hour and a hilf. 

MRS BELLl^ HUXTER. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. One cup finely chorpad beef 
suet, two cups fine bread crumbs, one heaping cup sagar, one 
cup seeded raisins, one cup well washed currants, one cup 
chopped blanched almonds, half cup citron sliced thin, a tea- 
spoon salt, one of cloves, two of cinnamon half a grated nut- 
meg and four well beaten eggs. Dissolve a level teaspoon soc'a 
in a tablespoon warm water, flour the. fruit thoroughly from 
a pint of flour, then mix the remainder as follows: in a large 
bowl put the well beaten eggs, sugar, spices and salt in one 
cup of milk; stir in the fruit, chopped nuts, bread crumbs and 
suet, one after the other until all are used, putting in the dis- 
solved soda last, and adding enough flour to make the fruit 
stick together, which will take all the pint. Put in pudding 
bag and place in a kettle of boiling water, placing saucer in 
bottom of kettle, and boil four hours. Serve with hot sauce. 

MRS. JAMES BARR. 

English Plum Pudding". One pound of chopped suet (very 
fine), two pounds seeded raisins, two pounds currants, one 
quarter of a pound of citron, one pound light brown sugar, 
three well beaten eggs, half pint milk, one nutmeg, a little salt, 
flour sufficient to make very stiff, three teaspoons Eddy's 
Triple Extract of vanilla; put into a coffee can and boil in 
a kettle of water four or five hours, keep boiling constantly. 
Butter the can before putting in the pudding and then it turns 
out nicely. This padding will keep for three or four weeks 
and can be slice and steam to serve. Serve with sauce. 

MRS. S. E. MANSFIELD. 

Prune Pudding. Whites of eleven eggs, one cup sugar, one 
cup stewed prunes chopped fine; beat eggs to a stiff froth in a 
large bowl, add sugar lightly, then prunes. Bake in a large 
pan and eat warm with whipped cream. 

MRS. CLARA M. SEDGWICK. 

Prune Pudding. One half pound prunes; boil soft remove 
pits, chop fine and stir in sugar, a scant cup, the whites of six 
eggs beaten stiff and bake brown. MRS. R. JAMES. 



70 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Pudcliiig, One can syrup, one cup sweet milk, half cup but- 
ter, one cup raisins, one teaspoon each cloves, cinnamon and 
soda; add sufficient flour and steam for two hours. 

MRS. B. KING. 

Apple Piift's. One pint of milk, or part milk and water, two 
beaten eggs; make a batter rather thicker than griddle cakes; 
two teaspoons baking powder, salt; pare core and chop apples 
line. Half fill buttered cups with chopped apple, pour in the 
batter till two-thirds full." Set in steamer and steam about an 
hour. fcJerve hot with cream and sugar flavored, or liquid 
sauce. MISS BIRDIE WHITCOMB. 

The Queen of Puddings. One pint bread crumbs one quart 
milk, one cup sugar, four eggs (yolks well beaten), grated 
rind of one lemon, piece of butter the size of an egg; bake un- 
til well done. Now beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff 
froth, add one cup powdered sugar in which has previously 
been stirred the juice of the lemon. Spread over the pudding 
a layer of jelly, then spread the whites of eggs. Place in the 
oven to slightly brown. MRS. ORION SHEPARDSON. 



Rice Apple Pudding. Two thirds cup rice, six apples; cook 
rice separately and season with cinnamon, sugar and butter; 
also cook apples same. Put a layer of rice then apples, then 
rice, apples and bake one hour. Eat with pudding sauce. 

MRS. ALICE PRATT. 

Raisin Puflfs. One half pint raisins, one pint flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon salt, two eggs; add 
enough sweet milk to make a batter a little thicker than for 
cakes; grease six or seven teacups, fill half full, steam one 
hour. Eat with pudding sauce. MRS. W. H. HARRISON. 

Snow Pudding. One half box gelatine soaked in cold water, 
then pour one pint of boiling water over it and add two cups 
sugar; when cool flavor to taste with Eddy's Triple Extracts. 
Beat whites of three eggs stiff and put with the gelatine, then 
beat until quite stiff, ten or fifteen minutes. Custard for 
sauce; boil one pint of milk and put into it one teaspoon corn 
starch dissolved in a little cold water or milk, yolks of three 
eggs, beaten light, one half cup sugar; cook till thick. 

MRS. BELLE WARNER PRICE. 



PUDDINGS 71 

Steamed Piiddiiijj;. One cup sugar, one of sweet milk, two 
cups flour, three tablespoons butter, one egg, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one of soda, large cup raisins chopped, half in the 
pudding, half in the sauce, steam two hours. To make the 
sauce take proper quantities of butter and sugar, beat together, 
add half spoon flour, pour boiling water on till thin enough; 
add the raisins. MRS. R. T. CROSS. 

Steamed Pudding. One large tablespoon each butter and 
sugar, one egg, half teaspoon salt, one cup sweet milk; three 
teaspoons baking powder; add flour until dough will drop off 
the spoon. Pour over one quart fruit, either raw or cooked, 
sweetened to taste, and steam for about one half hour. Serve 
hot with sauce. MRS. JULIA GREENE BELL. 

Steamed Suet Pudding. Two cups sour milk, four cups 
flour, one cup suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, one tea- 
spoon each, soda and salt, one pound each raisins and currants, 
half pound citron, one teaspoon cloves, two teaspoons cinna- 
mon, one nutmeg. Steam four or five hours. 

MRS. B. C. MERADITH. 

Steamed Suet Pudding. One cup suet chopped fine, one cup 
raisins, one half cup currants, one and one-half cups C sugar 
cne and one-half cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda dissolved 
In the milk, cinnamon and allspice to suit taste; (add flour to 
make as stiff as cake batter). Steam two hours. 

MRS. W. CRABB. 

Suet Pudding. One egg well beaten, one cup sour milk into 
which has been dissolved a level teaspoon soda, one cup suet 
chopped very fine, one cup raisins seeded, one cup molasses, 
one teaspoon each salt, cinnamon, clove and nutmeg, four cui)s 
flour. Put in a pail with tight cover, set in a kettle of boiling 
water, steam three hours. Do not let stop boiling until done. 

MRS. J. S. KXOTT. 

Suet Pudding. One cup suet, three cups flour, one cup 
sugar, one cup currants, two teaspoons each of baking powder 
and salt, sweet milk to make a stiff batter. Steam three hours. 

MRS. A. BLODGETT. 

Suet Pudding. One cup boiling water, one cup suet and one 
half cup butter (mixed), one and one-half cups chopped rals- 



72 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

ins, one and one-half cups currants and spices, one teaspoon 
soda and two of cream tarter, half cup sugar, half cup New 
Orleans molasses and three cups flour. Steam three hours. 

MISS BERTHA ALLEN. 

Suet Pudding. One cup each of suet (chopped flne), sweet 
milk, sugar raisins or currants, three or four cups flour to 
make quite stiff, two teaspoons baking powder, spice to taste. 
Steam three or four hours. MRS. MARY TILDEN. 

Suet Pudding. One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one 
cup dried currants, one cup raisins, three fourths cup beef suet 
chopped fine, three cups flour, one teaspoon each of salt, soda, 
cloves and cinnamon. Boil three hours. MRS. IDELL. 

Suet Pudding. Three cups flour, one cup molasses, one cup 
suet finely chopped, half pound seeded raisins, three fourths 
cup sweet milk, half teaspoon soda, little salt, cloves, cinnamon 
and allspice to suit taste. Put in pudding dish and steam three 
hours. Serve with sauce. 

MRS. ALICE B. KIRKPATRICK. 

Tapioca Pudding. Wash one cup tapioca, soak it for five 
or six hours then simmer it in a stew pan until it becomes 
quite clear; add one half cup sugar and one glass currant jelly. 
Serve cold with cream. MRS. A. ELLS. 

Tapioca Pudding. Two thirds cup tapioca, one quart new 
milk, four eggs, one and one-fourth cups sugar, lemon extract 
to taste, piece of butter size of walnut, little salt. Pour boiling 
water over the tapioca; let soak two or three hours before 
making the pudding. Bake. MRS. LIZZIE COOMBS. 

AVhite Pudding. Three cups milk, whites of six eggs 
whipped stiff, one cup powdered sugar, one tablespoon melted 
butter, one tablespoon rosewater, (Eddy's Triple Extracts), 
two heaping cups pr-epared flour; whip the sugar into the stif- 
fened whites, add butter and rosewater, then the flour stirred 
in very lightly; bake in buttered mold in a rather quick oven. 
To be eaten with sauce. MRS. MARY WENDELL. 



PUDDING SAUCES 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

Pudding Sauce. One half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one egg, juice of one lemon, all beaten together. Be- 
fore serving pour on one half pint boiling water. 

MRS. I. A. BRUNER. 

Cream Sauce. Heat a pint sweet cream, slowly, in a vessel 
set in a sauce pan of boiling water, stirring often. When 
scalding hot remove from the fire and put in four heaping 
tablespoons sugar, and teaspoon nutmeg; stir three or four 
minutes, and add the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, or one 
whole egg, well beaten, may be used instead. Mix thoroughly 
add one teaspoon Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon or vanilla. 
Keep hot until ready to serve. This is an excellent sauce for 
almost any pudding. MRS. JAMES BARR. 

Hard Sauce. Two teacups confectionery sugar, half cup of 
butter mixed to a cream, the beaten whites of two eggs, table- 
spoon Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla; beat well and set on ice 
to cool. Excellent with any kind of pudding. 

MRS. F. E. FENDER. 

EA-ery Day Sauce. To one pint of boiling water add one tea- 
cup granulated sugar, one tablespoon butter, a pinch salt, one 
tablespoon corn starch dissolved in cold water; flavor with 
Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla or nutmeg; boil half an hour 
and if good and well cooked it will be very clear. If liked a 
tablespoon of any kind of jelly may be added. 

MRS. JESSE LOVE. 

Sauce for Suet Pudding. One cup boiling water, one and 
one-half cups sugar, lump of butter, and one tablespoon corn 
starch. MRS, BERTHA COX. 

Strawberry Pudding Sauce. Half cup butter, one and one- 
half cups sugar one pint mashed strawberries; tream the but- 
ter and sugar, then stir in the berries. 

MISS HATTIE SOUTHWORTH. 



74 * THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

CAKES. 



Angel's Food. Use the whites of eleven eggs, one and one- 
half cups granulated sugar, one cup sifted flour, one teaspoon 
Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon or vanilla, one teaspoon cream 
tartar; sift the sugar three times and put in a bowl, then sift 
the flour four times and measure an even cup loosely in a 
medium sized cup; add to this one heaping teaspoon cream of 
tartar and sift four times, leaving this in the sieve. Beat 
whites of elevtn eggs in a large platter, to a stiff froth, add 
sugar, gently sprinkle over the egg, then the flour and lastly 
the flavoring, stirring constantly until well mixed, and imme- 
diately pour into an ungreased pan. A round pan with a hole 
in the center, straight sides and loose bottom is much pre- 
ferred. Bake in a moderate oven until done, testing with a 
straw, (one has to learn this by experience, as the baking is 
the most important part of the whole work and no rule will 
apply to all ovens.) Bake well on bottom but don't burn. 
When done remove from oven and turn pan bottom side up, 
resting on something to let steam escape. Do not get dis- 
couraged if your cake falls when turned over; you have either 
not baked it enough or your flour is poor or your pan not 
straight en the sides. It will not hurt cako to turn it arouijid 
in the oven if it should brown too much on one side. 

MRS. E. J. WIGHTMAN. 

Almciid Cream Cake. Two cups sugar, one cup milk, 
whites of six eggs, two thirds cup butter, one half cup corn 
starch, two and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder; bake in jelly pans. For cream, take one half pint 
sweet cream, yolk of three, eggs, tablespoon pulverized sugar, 
teaspoon corn starch, dissolved starch smoothly with a little 
milk, beat yolks and sugar together with this, boil the cream 
and stir these ingredients in as for any cream cake filling, only 
a little thicker; blanch and chop fine one half pound almonds 
and stir in cream. Put together like jelly cake while filling 
is soft, then ice the top and sides. Stick a half pound of split 
almonds into the icing. MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

Almond Nut Cake. Two cups pulverized sugar, one fourth 
cup butter, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, three tea- 



CAKES 75 

spoons baking powder, whites four eggs. For cream: whip 
one cup cream to a stiff froth, stir in this one half cup pul- 
verized sugar a few drops Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla, 
one pound almonds blanched and chopped; spread thickly be- 
tween cake; frost top and bottom. 

MRS. J. F. HOUSEMAN, Aurora, Neb. 

Angel Layer Cake. Make angel cake, baking in layers 
and put together with the following: two cups four X sugar 
(best grade of pulverized), two tablespoons Knox's gelatine 
dissolved in eight tablespoons hot water; add sugar and stir 
one half hour. Butter slightly the pans the cakes ^vere baked 
in, and mold the above in the same by setting on ice. When 
thoroughly cold put between layers, using one for top. Pink 
gelatine makes a very pretty cake. MRS. F. B. DAGGY. 

Blackberry Cake. One and one-half cups sugar, half cup 
butter, three eggs, half cup sour cream or milk, one teaspoon 
soda, one glass of blackberry jam, one teaspoon cinnamon and 
cloves, two and one-half cups flour. Bake in three layers and 
use white frosting betw'een layers. This cake is a substitute 
for fruit cake, and the longer it is kept the better. It is good 
also eaten warm. MRS. E. W. SMITH. 

Bro^^^l Stone Front. One and one-half cups sugar, half cup 
butter, half cup sour milk, yolks of three eggs and one w^hite, 
half cup grated chocolate (fill cup with hot water to dissolve 
chocolate), three cups flour, and one teaspoon soda dissolved 
in warm w^ater. Flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla, 
if desired. Bake in three layers and put together with boiled 
frosting. This is also very nice baked in a dripping pan, then 
covered with a thick icing. MRS. IDALETTE WOODS. 

Brownie Cake. First part: one cup dark brown sugar half 
cup sweet milk, one cup grated Baker's chocolate, put on the 
stove and stir until thoroughly dissolved, but do not let it 
boil. Second part: one cup dark brown sugar, half cup sweet 
milk, scant half cup butter, two cups (even full) flour with 
one scant teaspoon soda mixed in the flour, yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, teaspoon Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla. 
Mix these two parts together and bake in three layers. Put 
together with boiled frosting or whipped cream. 

MRS. LAURA KNAPP. 



76 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Brown Stone Cake. One half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups sugar, three eggs beaten separately, one cup sweet milk, 
half teaspoon Eddy's Triple, Extract of vanilla, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, two cups flour, one fourth cake of Ba- 
ker's chocolate melted and stirred into the batter. Bake in 
three large layers and put together with boiled icing. 

MRS. I. N. BAGNELL. 

Brown Stone Front. Ingredients for cake: grated choco- 
late eight tablespoons, granulated sugar live tablespoons, 
milk one cup, butter one half cup, brown sugar one and one 
half cups, flour two cups, eggs three, baking powder two tea- 
spoons, Eddy's Triple Extrat of vanilla one tablespoon. Make 
a custard of the chocolate, granulated sugar, and one half cup 
of the milk; cook until it thickens a little, then let it cool. 
Beat together the butter, brown sugar and eggs, dropping them 
in one at a time; beat thoroughly; add half cup flour contain- 
ing the baking powder; add the custard, stir again then add 
all to the remainder of the milk and flour; stir well, flavor, and 
bake in three layers. Filling: pulverized sugar two cups, milk 
two thirds cup, butter size of an egg. Boil together ten min- 
utes and beat until cool enough to spread; or put together and 
ice with boiled icing. MRS. ETTA HARRISON. 

Cocoannt Cake. Six eggs (whites only), two cups powder- 
ed sugar, three fourths cups butter, one cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon Eddy's 
Triple Extract of lemon. Bake as a loaf cake and next day 
cut off the upper and lower crusts and trim off all the brown 
from sides. Slice it in four layers, make an icing, put in a! 
generous amount of cocoanut and spread between the layers. 
Spread to]) and sides with plenty of icing. When cake is cut 
it will be perfectly white all through and very handsome. 

MRS. D. I. HUNTER. 

Cocoanut Cream Cake. One cup butter,two cups sugar, 
three and one-half cups flour, whites of six eggs, one teaspoon 
baking powder, one cup milk. Cream for filling: half cup 
sugar, half cup flour, whites of two eggs, beat the eggs, stir 
in sugar and flour, half pint boiling milk and one cup cocoa- 
nut. Make frosting for outside, sprinkle thick with cocoanut 
before dry. MRS. EFFIE H. SPOONER. 



CAKES 7T 

Cream Sponge Cake. Four eggs, one cup sugar, one and 
^ne half cups Hour, two teaspoons baking powder, four table- 
i*poons cold water; bake in two jelly tins. For filling, boll 
one teacup milk, one tablespoon corn starch mixed with cold 
water, two thirds cup sugar, one egg and butter size of wal- 
nut, flavor to taste with Eddy's Triple Extract. 

MRS. M. B. TAYLOR. 

Cream Cake. One and one-half cups white sugar, one half 
oup butter, one of sweet milk, w^hites of four eggs, two cups 
sifted flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one half cup corn 
starch and flavoring (Eddy's Triple Extract.) Filling: two 
cups white sugar, one half cup cream, one teaspoon vanilla; 
boil until it hardens when dropped in cold water, place the 
pan in cold water until the cream is nearly cold, then whip 
with a fork until white and creamy. 

MRS. L. A. BURTON. 

Cream Puffs. Put half pint hot water and two thirds cup 
butter over the fire; when boiling stir in one and one half 
cups flour, and continue stirring until smooth and the mixture 
leaves the sides of the saucepan; remove from fire, cool and 
beat thoroughly into it five well beaten eggs. Drop on warm 
greased tins (or a dripping pan), a tablespoonful in a place, 
leaving space between to prevent touching, brush over with 
the white of an egg, and bake ten or fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven. When cakes are done they will be hollow. When cold, 
slice off the top, fill space with the cream, and replace top. 
Cream for inside: one pint milk; place one half in a tin pail 
and set in boiling water; reserve from the other half two 
tablespoon to mix with eggs, and into the rest, while cold, 
mix one half cup flour until smooth; when the milk is hot 
pour in the flour and stir until thicker than boiled custard, 
then beat well together the two tablespoons milk, two eggs, 
one cup granulated sugar, a level tablespoon butter, and a 
teaspoon Eddy's Triple Extract vanilla; add gradually and 
continue stirring briskly until so thick that when cold it will 
pour from the spoon. The puffs may be kept on hand. Make 
the cream fresh, let it cool, and fill as many as are wanted. 

MRS. W. H. EAGLESON. 



78 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Coffee Cake. Two cups brown sugar, one cup butter, One 
cup molasses, one cup strong coffee, one teaspoon soda, four 
eggs, two teaspons each cinnamon and cloves, one teaspoon 
grated nutmeg, one pound each of raisins and currants, four 
cups flour. MRS. W. H. HARRISON. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. One and one-half cups sugar, one 
half cup butter beaten to a cream; add one cup of sweet milk, 
one and one-half cups flour and one half cup corn starch sifted 
three or four times, two teaspoons baking powder and the 
whites of four eggs beaten stiff"; then add the prepared choco- 
late, which is as follows: one half cup chocolate (grated), 
one cup sweet milk, one cup sugar (granulated), yolk of one 
egg beaten very light; put on stove and cook until soft like 
taffy, and when cool flavor with Eddy'is Triple Extract of va- 
nilla. Bake in layers and put together with boiled icing. 

MRS. WILL BOYER. 

Chocolate Cake. One cup sugar one half cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, two teaspoons baking powder; 
boil together one quarter cake Baker's chocolate, grated, one 
half cup sweet milk, one cup isugar, one teaspoon Eddys 
Triple Extract of vanilla and yolk of one egg. When cool a'dd 
the above mixture; bake in jelly tins and put boiled icing be- 
tween the layers. MRS. M. J. FLEMING. 

Coffee Cake. One cup each of molasses, sugar, strong cof- 
fee, raisins, currants, one half cup butter, one egg, one tea- 
spoon each of soda, cinnamon, cloves and salt. 

MRS. A. E. OVIATT. 

Cup Cake. Beat one half cup butter and one and one-half 
cups sugar to cream, add the well beaten yolks of four eggs, 
cup milk, three cups flour, in which sift two teaspoons baking 
powder; then mix in carefully the stiffly beaten whites of the 
eggs with juice and grated rind of a lemon. Mix thoroughly 
and pour in a well greased pan. Bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. MRS. B. F. LANG. 

Delicate Layer Cake. Whites of eight eggs, two cups 
sugar, one of butter, three full cups flour, one of sweet milk, 
three teaspoons baking powder; beat the butter to a cream. 



CAKES 79* 

stir in the sugar and beat until light, add the milk, then the- 
flour and beaten whites; bake in layers and put together with, 
any filling desired. 

MRS. WHITFIELD SANFORD, (Atlantic, Iowa.) 

Delicate Cake. Three cups flour, one of sugar, three 
fourths cup sweet milk, whites of six eggs, one half cup but- 
ter, one teaspoon cream tartar, one half teaspoon soda. Fla- 
vor with Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon. 

MRS. B .F. FELLMAN. 

Cream Puflfs. One cup flour, two eggs, half cup sugar, but- 
ter size of an egg; beat ten minutes, pour in muffin rings and 
bake in a hot oven; when done cut out the center of each 
cake, let the bottom remain and fill them with the following 
mixture: sweet cream beaten until stiff, sweetened to taste: 
and flavored with Eddy's Triple Extract vanilla. 

MRS. J. W. HARGRAVE. 

Coflfee Cake. One cup molasses, one of sugar, one of 
strong coffee, one of butter, one of raisins (seeded), two level 
teaspoons soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one half teaspoon 
cloves, one whole nutmeg (grated), four cups flour, two w^hole 
eggs. MRS. O. E. BARTLIT. 

Caramel Cake. Four eggs, three fourths cup butter, one 
and one-half cups sugar, half cup milk, two and one-fourth 
cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, Eddy's Triple 
Extract vanilla. Caramel filling: one. cup cream, one cup 
dark brown sugar, boil until thick enough and beat until cold. 

MISS MAYE DEAN. 

Caramel Cake. Whites of four eggs beaten stiff, one and 
one fourth cups sugar, half cup water, half cup butter, two 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon 
vanilla; beat sugar and butter together until like cream, then 
add water with one tablespoon corn starch stirred into the 
water, then the extract, flour, and last the beaten eggs. Bake 
in three jelly tins. Frosting; two cups sugar dissolved in ten 
tablespoons milk, boil just five minutes, then beat it a few 
minutes, and add three tablespoons grated chocolate and one 
teaspoon Eddy's Triple Extract vanilla. Use immediately. 

MRS. E. W. SMITH. 



80 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Delicate Cake. Two eggs, half cup butter, cup sweet milk, 
one and one-half cups sugar, two and one-half cups flour, and 
three small spoons baking powder, put together in the. usual 
manner and flavor with i^ddy's Triple Extract of lemon or 
rose. Bake in a sheet and cover with chocolate frosting. This 
recipe I have used fifteen years, and while inexpensive, it is 
nice enough for almost any occasion. 

MRS. EDWIN MARCELLUS. 

Dover Cake. Four cups brown sugar, one cup butter, six 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, one half cup sour cream ,one tea- 
fapoon soda, three tablespoons cinnamon, one nutmeg, one half 
teaspoon cloves, four cups flour. MRS. JAY SERVISS. 

Dolly Varden Cake. Light part: whites of eight eggs, two 
cups sugar, three fourths cup butter three fourths cup fresh 
milk, three cups flour (sifted), three teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Dark part: take Vs of the dough, put in this one cup 
seeded raisins, one cup currants, and one half cup sliced cit- 
ron. This is for middle layer; the white dough divide, in two 
layers, ice between layers and over top. MRS. D. C. BELL. 

Empress Fruit Cake. One and one-half cups butter, three 
of sugar (scant), three of flour, nine eggs,. one ane one-fourth 
pounds almonds, in the shell), one half pound citron, one- 
half pound raisins (seeded), grated yellow and juice of one 
lemon, cream, the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, 
then the beaten whites and part of the flour, then the fruit 
chopped and dredged with flour, and the almonds blanched 
and chopped. MRS. A. O'. WYMAN. 

Fruit Cake. Ten eggs, two pounds New Orleans sugar, one 
of flour, one of butter, (scant), one cup New Orleans molasses, 
three pounds currants, three of raisins, one of flgs, one of 
citron, eight tablespoons sweet milk, Eddy's Triple Extract of 
lemon and vanilla, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 

MRS. C. M. COWAN. 

Fi'uit Ciike. One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, one 
half pint molasses, one cup sour cream, four eggs (whites 
beaten separately), one pound flour, one pound currants, one 
and one-half pounds raisins. MRS, M. L. BARBER. 



CAKES 81 

Fruit Cake One pound dark brown sugar, one pound each 
flour and butter, three of stemmed raisins, two of currants, 
ten well beaten eggs, one-half teacup dark molasses, one-half 
pound blanched almonds chopped very fine, one-half pound 
citron, one nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon to taste: rub fruit 
in with flour. Before adding the molasses dissolve teaspoon 
soda in a little hot water and stir in the molasses; then add 
to cake. Bake three or four hours, according to thickness of 
loaves in a tolerably hot oven and with steady heat. 

MRS. S. E. MANSFIELD. 

Fig Cake. Silver part: two cups sugar, two thirds cup each 
butter and sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoons 
baking powder, three cups flour. Gold part: one cup sugar, 
three fourths cup butter, one half cup sweet milk, one and one 
half teaspoons baking powder, one and one half cups flour, 
yolk of seven eggs and one whole egg, one teaspoon allspice, 
cinnamon to taste. Bake the white in two long pie tins put 
half the gold in long pie tin and lay on one pound halved 
figs (previously sifted over with flour) so they will touch each 
other; put on rest of gold and bake; put cakes together with 
frosting while warm, the gold between the white ones, and 
cover with frosting. MRS. ALICE B. KIRKPATRICK. 

Fruit Cake. One pound each butter and brown sugar, one 
half pound white sugar, two pounds each flour and raisins, one 
and one half pounds flgs, one pound currants, one and one 
half pounds almonds (browned), three fourths pound citron, 
three fourth pound orange or lemon peeling, ten eggs, one cup 
New Orleans molasses, one cup fruit juice or milk, two tea- 
spoons soda, three of cinnamon, one each of mace, nutmeg 
and ginger, one half each of allspice and cloves. 

MRS. A. H. NELSON, (Utica Neb.) 

Gold Cake. One and one half cups sugar, one half cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk; teaspoon twice full baking pow- 
der, two cups flour, yolks of six eggs. MRS. N. D. NEWELL. 

Hickory Xut Cake. One and one half cups sugar, one half 
cup butter, two and one half cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, three fourths cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one 
cup chopped hickory nut meats. MRS. CYRUS HUTCHINS. 



82 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Hickory Hint Cake. Two cups sugar, one half cup butter, 
one cup milk, three cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, 
three eggs, one cup hickory nut kernels chopped fine and add- 
ed last. MRS. G. W. POST. 

Gold Cake. Beat to a cream one cup sugar and half cup 
butter; beat very light two whole eggs, and the yolks of four, 
half cup milk, two and a half cups flour, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder sifted with flour. Flavor with Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of vanilla or lemon. MISS LULU DEAN. 

Hickory Nut Cake. Two cups sugar, one cup butter; stir to 
a cream; whites of six eggs beaten stiff, one fourth cup milk, 
three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one coffee cup- 
nut meats. Bake in a loaf. MISS LILY PURCELL. 

English Pound Cake. One pound butter, one and one-fourtli 
pounds flour, one pound sugar, one pound currants, nine eggs, 
two ounces candied peel, one half ounce citron, one half ounce 
sweet almonds, when liked a little pounded mace. Work the 
butter to a cream, add sugar, then the well beaten yolks of 
eggs next the flour, currants, candied peel cut into neat slices, 
and the almonds blanched and chopped and blended with other 
ingredients. Beat the cake well for twenty minutes and put 
t into a round tin lined at the bottom and sides with strips of 
vhite paper. Bake it from two to two and one half hours; 
let oven be well heated when the cake is first put in, if this is 
not the case the currants will all sink to the bottom. 

MRS. H. C. PAGE. 

Fruit Cake. Three cups dark brown sugar, one cup butter 
(mix butter and sugar together), tw^o cups sour milk, four 
cups flour, four cups raisins, five cents' worth prepared lemon 
peel, one teaspoon soda; add more fruit if liked; spices to 
taste. MRS. C. E. WALKER. 

Fig Cake. One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, 
two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, whites of six 
eggs. For the filling take a pound of figs, chop fine and put in 
a stew pan; pour over them a teacup of water and one half 
cup sugar. Cook all together until soft and smooth then 
spread between the layers. MRS. HARRISON. 



CAKES 83 

Farmer's Fruit Cake. Soak three cups of dried apples over 
night; in the morning chop and simmer in two cups of molas- 
ses two hours, then add two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, three fourths cup butter, two teaspoons soda, 
and flour to make a stiff batter; cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg 
to taste. MRS. M. B. TAYLOR. 

Layer Cake. Cream together one scant cup butter, three of 
sugar, one cup sweet milk, then the beaten whites of twelve 
eggs; sift three teaspoons baking powder into one cup corn 
starch mixed with three cups of flour, and add. Use any fill- 
ing desired. MRS. ALICE WASHBURN. 

Lemon Cream Cake. Whites of six egps, one and one half 
cups granulated sugar, two tablespoons butter, one cupmilk, 
two teaspoons baking powder, three cups flour (small size). 
Bake in three layers. Filling one half cup boiling water, one 
cup sugar, one scant tablespoon corn starch, wet and stirred 
into the boiling water; add t'ne grated rind and juice of one 
lemon, butter size of a walnut, and the yolk of one egg; let it 
cook until it shines. MRS. M. A. EDWARDS. 

Lemon Cake. One cup sugar, one and one half cups flour, 
two tablespoons butter, one half cup sweet milk, three eggs, 
three teaspoons baking powder. Filling for cake: the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, two teaspoons cold water, two 
eggs, one cup sugar; put on stove and let cook; stir until it 
thickens, but do not let it boil. When cool spread between 
layers of cake; frost the cake if desired. 

MRS. LEVI MAP PS : 

Loaf Cake. One cup butter, two of pulverized sugar, one of 
sweet milk, three of flour, one half cup corn starch, four eggs 
two teaspoons baking powder, one each of Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of lemon and vanilla flavoring. 

MRS. M. C. PURCELL. 

MarshmalloAV Cake. Cup and half sugar two thirds cup 
butter stirred to a cream, one cup sweet milk, whites of five 
eggs beaten stiff, two and one half cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder; flavor to taste and bake in three layers. Fil- 
ling: soak two tablespoons Knox's gelatine in eight table- 
spoons warm water, add confectionery fc,ugar enough to make 



84 THE YORK COOK BOOK 

stiff and stir constantly for thirty minutes; flavor with Eddy's 
Triple Extract of vanilla. MRS. F. E. FENDER. 

Maple Caramel Cake. Two coffee cup sugar, scant coffee cup 
butter, one sweet milk, three of flour, three teaspoons baking 
powder, whites of eight eggs beaten stiff; bake in three layers. 
A smaller cake may be made by using a teacup in measuring 
and the whites of only six eggs. Filling: three cups maple 
sugar and one and a half cups thick sweet cream boiled until 
a soft taffy; spread between layers and also on top and sides. 
If not convenient to use all maple sugar, granulated may be 
substituted. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Molasses Cake. One. cup molasses, half cup butter, one cup 
boiling water poured on the butter and molasses, two cups 
flour, half teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda, a small pinch 
cloves and one egg. MRS. BELLE HARRIS. 

Nut Cake. One and one half cups sugar, half cup butter, 
one cup sweet milk, half cup corn starch, three cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder, whites of six eggs beaten stiff; 
flavor with almond, bake in layers. For the filling make a 
rich cream of the yolks of the eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon 
corn starch dissolved in a little milk, half cup sugar and a 
little salt. When it is boiled to a cream set aside to cool; when 
cool mix through it one pound nuts; spread between layers 
and on top. MRS. I. A. BRUNER. 

Orange Cake. Two small cups sugar, half cup butter, one 
of milk, yolks of five eggs or three whole ones, three cups 
flour, three teaspoons baking powder. Filling: whites of three 
eggs beaten stiff, juice and peel of one orange and sugar to 
suit taste. MRS. R. H. DEVER. 

Poor Man's Cake. Two cups sugar, one each of butter, sweet 
milk and raisins, one half cup citron, one half cup currants, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon, 
six eggs, three cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Bake one hour. MRS. OTTO LANG. 

Roll Jelly Cake. Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder, pinch of salt; mix all well to- 
gether and roll out on long tins; as soon as baked spread over 
any jelly and roll up immediately. MRS. E. N. EVANS. 



- - CAKES ■ 85 

Snow Cake. One cup sugar, one half cun butter, one half 
cup sweet milk, one and one half cups flour, whites of four 
eggs, teaspoon baking powder; flavor with Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of lemon. MRS. JOHN E. EVANS. 

Spanish Bunn. One cup sugar, one half cup butter, one 
half cup milk, one or two eggs, two tablespoons baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, two and one 
half cups sifted flour. Bake in two layers; spread between, 
the layers either frosting or caramel filling. 

MISS WHITNEY. 

Sponge Cake. One and one half cups sugar, one half cup 
cold water, two cups flour, one tablespoon baking powder, 
three eggs. MRS. MARY CUNNINGHAM. 

Spiced Chocolate Cake. Four eggs, leave whites of two for 
frosting, two cups sugar, two of flour, one of sour milk, one 
half cup butter, one cup grated chocolate, one teaspoon each 
of soda, cinnamon and allspice, half nutmeg grated, and one 
half teaspoon cloves; put together with boiled frosting and 
flavor wtih Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla. 

MRS. LETTIE DONELL. 

Spice Cake. (Good). One cup sugar, one half of butter, 
one half of sweet milk, two of flour, one of raisins, two eggs, 
one tablespoon molasses, one teaspoon cinnamon, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, one half teaspoon each cloves, ginger, 
nutmeg and allspice; bake in three layers and put together 
with white frosting. ' MRS. E. M. COBB. 

Sunshine Cake. Whites of seven eggs, beaten light, yolks of 
five eggs beaten very light, add one fourth teaspoon cream 
tartar to the whites of eggs before beating, add the beaten 
yolks, then one scant cup sugar and one scant cup flour (sifted 
five times). MRS. LYDIA HUFFMAN. 

Chocolate Cake. One cup sugar, three fourlhs cup butter, 
three eggs, one half cup milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one fourth cake c^.oco]ate, flavor with Eddy's 
Triple Extract of vanilla. MRS. GEORGE CHILCOTE. 

Tea Cakes. Five cups Fifted flour, two cups sugar, three 
fourths cup butter, one half cup sweet milk, two eggs, one le- 



86 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

vel teaspoon soda, one half teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg; 
mix tlie sugar, butter, eggs and millv same as for cake., tlien 
add flour. MRS. D. B. SNODGRASS. 

Vanity Cake, (Layer). One and one half cups sugar, one 
half cup each- butter and sweet milk, one and one half cups 
flour, one half cup corn starch, one teaspoon baking powder, 
whites of six eggs; bake in two cakes, putting frosting be- 
tween and on top. MRS. M. L. BARBER. 

"1896" AVeddiiig Cake. Two cups sugar, one cup butter; 
(rub butter and sugar to a cream); one cup sweet milk, the 
whites of seven well beaten- eggs, flavor with two teaspoons 
Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla; beat well, then add two tea- 
spoons baking powder and four cups sifted flour. Stir well for 
ten minutes, remove part of dough, have ready a piece of melt- 
ed chocolate the size of a walnut; sweeten chocolate to taste, 
then add one part of the white dough, which makes the dark 
or chocolate part of the cake. Have ready a well greased, 
deep cake pan, using first the white portion, then the dark 
until, it has the appearance of marble cake. Bake in a well 
heated oven; when done use a thick chocolate icing for the 
top of cake with chocolate cream drops placed closely together 
on top of icing. Fifteen cents will purchase enough cream 
drops for a large cake. MRS. CHAS. CARPENTER. 

White Cake. Two cups white sugar, one of sweet cream, 
two of flour, one tablespoon butter, the whites of five egga, 
teaspoon twice full baking powder, flavor with Eddy's Triple 
Extract of lemon. MRS. H. D. NEWELL. 

White Cake. (Nice baked in round tin with stem in cen- 
ter.) Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, one cup corn starch, three teaspoons 
baking powder, whites of eight eggs, any flavoring wished; 
stir sugar and butter to a cream, then add the milk. Beat 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir in part at a time with 
the flour, after having sifted flour with baking powder and 
corn starch three or four times. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. W. K. WILLIAMS. 

White Cake. Beat one cup butter to a cream, add one and 
one half cups flour, stir very thoroughly together then add 



CAKES 8T 

one cup corn starch and one cup sweet milk, into which has 
been dissolved three teaspoons baking powder, lastly add the 
v/ell beaten whites of eight eggs into which two cups powder- 
ed sugar has been stirred; flavor to suit taste. Bake in layers 
and put together with any kind of filling. 

MRS. J. A. PARKS. 

White Sponge Cake. One half pint white sugar, one half 
pint sifted flour, a pinch of salt, the whites of ten eggs beaten 
stiff, two heaping teaspoon baking powder, two teaspoons Ed- 
dy's Triple Extract of lemon. Bake in deep tin. 

MRS. LINNIE B. CLARK. 

AVliite Marble Cake. Whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, one and one half glass sugar sifted five times, one glass 
hour sifted five times, one teaspoon cream tartar sifted in 
the flour; remove egg beater, using a silver fork, stiring in 
f.rst the sugar then the flour gently. Divide the quantity 
after all the ingredients have been added, and to one half the 
mixture add two teaspoons melted Baker's chocolate. Use 
a small dripping pan slightly floured; put white first, then add 
the chocolate; bake forty minutes. 

MRS. W. J. STEVENSON, (Aurora, Neb.) 

White Cake. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one of sweet 
milk, four of flour, whites of ten eggs beaten stiff, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, flavoring to taste. 

MRS. A. C. SNYDER. 

"White Cake. Whites of five eggs, beaten very stiff; cream 
together two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three 
cups fiour, two teaspoons baking powder; flavor to taste; stir 
in half the ingredients and then half the whites, repeat till 
it is all stirred in; beat a litle after last is in. A frosting with 
ruts laid on top is nice for this cake. Cut in any fancy shape. 

MRS. ROBT. JAMES. 

White Mountain Cake. One half cup butter and one cup 
sugar beaten to a cream, half cup of milk, one and one-half 
cups flour, two level teaspoons baking powder, whites of six 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, put in last; flavor with vanilla. 
Use a good sized cup in measuring. Bake in three layers. 
Cream filling: Whites of two eggs, add an equal measure of 



88 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

cold water, stir into this confectionery sugar until the right 
consistency to spread, flavor with one half teaspoon Eddy's 
Triple Extract of vanila. MRS. IRA A. SMITH. 

AVhite Perfection Cake. Three cups pulverized sugar, one 
of butter, one of sweet milk, three of flour, one of corn starch, 
flavoring, whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two 
teaspoons baking powder; add corn starch, sugar and butter, 
beat, then flour, beat, and last add whites of eggs. 

MRS. F. L. WHEDON. (Kearney, Neb. 

Yellow Cake. The following is a nice recipe for making use 
of yolks left after making an Angel's Food cake: yolks of elev- 
en eggs, one cup of sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of. sweet 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder; flavor to suit the taste. This is nice baked in drip- 
ping pan and covered with a thick coat of chocolate icing and 
then cut in squares. MRS. L. F. ANDREWS. 



CAKE FILLINGS. 



Boiled Icing. . One half pint granulated sugar and a scant 
half cup water; boil till it will shred from the spoon then pour 
it slowly over the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth and 
stir briskly until it is nearly cool. The difficulty in making 
this icing is in determining when it has boiled sufficiently. 

MRS. G. W. WIRT. 

Cake Filling. One fresh cocoanut, one cup stoned raisins, 
one fourth pound citron, half pound almonds, one pound dates, 
eight large figs, half cup currants. To prepare the fruit blanch 
the almonds, grate cocoanut. or if desiccated cocoanut is used 
it must be soaked a few hours in milk, then drained. Take 
half the almonds, chop fine with all the fruit, mix with small 
part of cocoanut; after icing the cakes on both sides, spread 
the mixture on each layer and sprinkle with cocoanut. Use 
whole almonds for top of cake. 

MRS. H. N. BELL, (Aurora, Neb.) 



CAKES 89 

Caramel Filling". One half cup brown sugar, one third cup 
milk, one teaspoon butter; place milk, sugar and butter on the 
fire in a sauce pan, set in another containing boiling water and 
cook until thick. Take from the stove and beat until thick; 
add Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla. MISS WHITNEY. 

Chocolate Cream Filling, Break the whites of two eggs in 
a bowl, do not beat them; stir in confectionery sugar enough 
to thicken well; flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla. 
First spread one layer with melted chocolate, then layer of 
cream, then antoher layer of melted chocolate, then another 
layer of cake, and fill as before then frost all over. 

MRS. F. E. FENDER. 

Feather Filling. One half cup each of sugar and butter 
creamed together one half cup raisins (seeded and chopped) 
and three dessert spoons corn starch; dissolve the corn starch 
in a little cold water and scald with a cup of boiling w'ater; 
stir well and let stand until cold ,then add to this the other 
ingredients and flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon or 
vanilla. Cake and filling must be cold before being put to- 
gether. Place between a cake of only two layers. 

MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Lemon Jelly to Spread. One pound sugar, one fourth 
pound butter, five eggs, the grated rind and juice of three 
lemons; boil these in a double kettle until thick. This makes 
enough for three cakes. MRS. LINNIE B. CLARK. 

Pineapple Filling. One can sliced pineapple (or half can 
grated) ; pour off liquid and add two cups sugar; into this put 
the pineapple previously chopped fine. Let this cook down 
into taffy, and when done stir in the whites of two eggs w^ell 
beaten. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Pineapple Filling. Ordinary icing may be used; take fine 
shredded pineapple after squeezing out juice and mix with 
icing. Must be used within a few hours after making for best 
results. MRS. J. F. HOUSEMAN, (Aurora, Neb.) 

Caramel Icing. To one pint of sugar add about three 
tablespoons thick sweet cream, and cook slowly for a few 



so THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

minutes, then add as much grated chocolate (previously 
steamed) as will give the syrup a light brown color; flavor to 
taste. If cooked properly this will make a soft icing which 
does not become hard, grainy or sticky. 

MRS. G. L. VAN FLEET. 

Raisin Mash. Make boiled icing of one cup sugar and 
white of one egg; add one cup raisins seeded and chopped; 
beat all together well and spread between layers. 

MRS. J. F. HOUSEMAN, (Aurora, Neb... 

Soft Frosting. One cup sugar, two tablespoons water; boil 
six minutes and pour over the beaten whites of three eggs and 
heat until cold or thick enough to spread. 

MRS. CYRUS HUTCHINS. 

Sour Cream Filling. One cup sour cream and one of sugar; 
put on the back of the stove and heat slowly until clear then 
boil until it shreds from spoon. After it is cold put in one cup 
nut meats. This put between layers of any cake will keep it 
moist for several days. MRS. HERMAN BEHLING. 

White Custard Filling. One cup each sugar and sweet 
milk, whites of three eggs and two level tablespoons corn 
starch; beat the eggs and sugar as for frosting, dissolve the 
corn starch in a little milk, heat the rest of the milk and stir 
in the corn starch. When this is well cooked flavor with one 
half teaspoon of Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon, then add the 
sugar and eggs and cook until done. Well to cook in double 
boiler. MRS. B. M. LONG. 



SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES. 



Almond Maccarooiis. The whites of five eggs and one pound 
pulverized sugar beaten together as for frosting; mix into this 
one half cake grated sweet chocolate ,two teaspoons cinnamon, 
two teaspoons allspice or one of cloves, and one pund blanched 
almonds chopped fine (two full pounds of almonds in the shell 
are required to make one pound of blanched;) line a dripping 



CAKES AND COOKIES 91 

pan with well greased writing paper, and upon this bake the 
maccaroons, using but one half teaspoon of the mixture for 
one maccaroon and placing them about two inches apart. Bake 
in an oven that is a little cooler than moderate; remove the 
maccaroons from the paper, while still warm, by the aid of a 
knife. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Centennial Drops. White of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
one fourth pound pulverized sugar, half teaspoon baking pow- 
der, flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon; butter tins 
and drop with teaspoon about three inches apart; bake in a 
slow oven and serve with ice cream. This is also a nice recipe 
for icing. MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

Hickory Nut Kisses. The whites of six eggs beaten stiff, 
one pound powdered sugar, two tablespoons flour, one pound 
hickory nut kernels. Drop in buttered tins and bake in a 
moderate oven. FRANK SMITH. 

Lady Fingers. Ose cup sugar, one half cup butter, one 
fourth cup milk, one pint flour, one egg, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one half teaspoon soda; flavor w^ith Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of vanilla. Cut in little strips, roll in sugar and bake in 
a quick oven. MISS LULU WIRT. 

Cocoanut Cookies. One and one-half cups butter, four cups 
sugar, four grated cocoanuts, eight eggs, one and one-half 
pints fresh milk, five teaspoons baking pow^der, flour enough to 
roll out as soft as possible. Cut out with biscuit cutter. 

MRS. W. K. WILLIAMS. 

Cookies. Two eggs ,two cups sugar, one of butter, one of 
sour cream, one teaspoon each of soda and salt; flavor to 
taste; flour to roll. MRS. F. P. VAN WTCKLE. 

Cookies. Two cups sugar, four eggs, one cup butter, one 
teaspoon soda, and flour to roll: flavor to taste. 

MRS. J. H. AFFLERBACH. 

Cookies. One cup sugar, one half cup butter, two eggs, half 
teaspoon soda, flavoring, and flour to make stiff (these are 
good made with five yolks in place of the two whole eggs.) 

MRS. WM. KREMSER. 



92 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Cookies. Two cups sugar ,one half cup milk, two eggs, tw^o 
teaspoons baking powder, four cups flour and two thirds cup 
Initter. • MRS. C. E. HAGER. 

Cookies. Cream or mix together one pund each sugar and 
butter, add four eggs beaten separately and light, one table- 
spoon vinegar, one teaspoon soda, flour just enough to roll. 

MRS. E. M. COBB. 

Cream Cookies. One cup thick sour cream and one of 
sugar, flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon or vanilla, 
one half teaspoon soda and a pinch of salt, flour to make a 
soft dough; bake in a quick oven. MRS. MARY SMALL. 

Cream Cookies. Two cups sugar, one each of butter and 
sweet cream, two teaspoons baking powder and two well 
beaten eggs, sufficient flour to roll thin; the butter and sugar 
must first be creamed together. MRS. W. L. DAVIS. 

Cream Cookies. Two cups cream, one half pound butter, 
one egg, two cups sugar, three teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, and flour enough to make a soft dough. Their 
goodness depends on the dough not being too stiff. 

MRS. GEO. REED. 

Economical Cookies. One cup sugar, one of cottolene or 
lard and'butter mixed, one each of New Orleans molasses and 
warm water, one tablespoon soda dissolved in the water, flour 
to make a dough stiff enough to roll out well. 

MRS. GUY HIGBY. 

Fruit Cookies. One and one-half cups sugar and one of 
butter worked to a cream, add three eggs well beaten, one 
half cup molasses, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little cold 
water, one cup raisins seeded and chopped, one cup currants, 
one teaspoon of all kinds of spice, flour to roll. These will 
keep a long time. MRS. JOHN R. PIERSON. 

Fruit Cookies. One and one-half cups sugar, one half cup 
butter, two eggs ,one cup chopped raisins, one cup currants, 
one teaspoon each cinnamon and nutmeg, one cup sweet milk; 
flour to roll; cut in thin cakes. MRS. E. N. EVANS. 



THE YORK COOK BOOK. 93 

Fi-csted Cieaius. One cup each of molasses, sugar, butter 
and lard mixed, sour milk, two teaspoons soda, one teaspoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon, one egg; mix as soft as can be 
handled, and bake in dripping pan. Frost while hot and cut 
m squares. MRS. F. BALDWIN. 

Ginger Snaps. Two cups molasses, one of butter, one table- 
spoon ginger, one teaspoon soda ;stir Uie molasses and butter 
together, then put the. ginger and soda on top and put ihe 
whole on the stove; when it boils, stir in the ginger and soda, 
let it cool, then stir in flour until stiff enough. 

MISS DORA VAN TINE. 

Ginger Cookies. One cup of each New Orleans molasses, 
sugar,"sour milk, butter, two tablespoons soda, two teaspoons 
ginger; mix with enough flour to make soft dough. Bake in 
, hot oven. MRS. J. W. HARGRAVE. 

Ginger Cookies. One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
butter one egg, one tablesooon each vinegar and ginger, one 
tablespoon soda dissolved in one half cup boiling water; mix 
hke cookie dough-rather soft. MRS. LIZZIE COOMBS. 

Ginger Cookies. Two cups molasses, two cups lard or drip- 
pings (or botn), one cup sugar, two teaspoons soda dissolved 
in two thirds cup hot water, ginger and one half teaspoon salt. 
Mix very stiff over night, or one half hour before baking. This 
makes nice frosted creams by rolling thicker and using frost- 
ing sugar mixed with milk or w^ater for icing. 

MRS. E. C. KNIGHT. 

Ginger Snaps. One large cup butter and lard mixed, one 
cup s^gar, one cup molasses, half cup water, one tablespoon 
ginger, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, flour for pretty stiff dough. Roll out little thinner than 
cookies Bake quickly. These snaps will keep for weeks if 
desired. MRS. D. MYRICK. 

Ginger Snaps. One cup old sorghum molasses, one half cup 
sugar (granulated), one tablespoon Jamaica ginger, one half 
teaspoon salt, one cup lard and butter mixed; put together on 
stove and warm and stir until thoroughly mixed, then add one 
level tablespoon soda dissolved in three tablespoons tepid 



94 TPIE YORK COOK BOOK. 

water. Mix with sifted flour until stiff as biscuit, then mold 
with hands into little balls, flatten T3etween palms of hand, 
give plenty of room in pans and bake in slow oven. 

MRS. W, F. REYNOLDS. 

Ginger Snaps. One cup each sugar, lard and molasses, one 
egg, one tablespoon (rounding full) soda dissolved in three 
tablespoons vinegar, two tablespoons ginger, enough flour to 
make them quite stiff; bake in quick oven. 

MRS. ROBERT McGINNIS. 

Jumbles. Cream together two cups sugar and one of butter 
add three well beaten eggs, six tablespoons sweet milk, two 
tablespoons baking powder, flavoring to taste, and flour enough 
for a soft dough; do not roll out but break off pieces the size 
of a walnut and make into rings by rolling out as large as 
your finger and joining the ends. Lay them on tins an inch 
apart, and bake in moderate oven. These jumbles are very 
delicious and will keep a long time. MRS. S. C. GRIPPEN. 

Molasses Cookies. Two eggs, one cup brown or C sugar, 
one of molasses, half cup each butter and lard, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in two tablespoons boiling water, one teaspoon 
ginger; add also a little salt, mix soft and do not roll too thin. 

MRS. A. L. WALKER. 

Measure Cookies. One egg broken into a cup; put into the 
cup butter size of an egg; now fill the cup with sugar; add one 
tablespoon thick sour milk; to every three measures like the 
above put one teaspoon soda; sufficient flour to roll out, flavor 
with nutmeg. MRS. A. O. WYMAN. 

Thanksgiving Cookies. Four eggs thoroughly beaten, two 
cups sugar and one of butter; the three ingredients are cream- 
ed until very light and smooth; flavor with Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of lemon.' Use heaping teaspoons baking powder to 
four cups flour many times sifted. 

MRS. ALICE WASHBURN. 

Vanilla Cream Cookies. One dozen eggs, two pounds sugar, 
one pound butter, one pint milk, two and one-half pounds of 



GIXGER BREAD • 95 

Hour, two teaspoons baking powuer, and Eddy's Triple Extract 
of vanilla flavoring; drop a teaspoonfiil in pan and bake. When 
cold frost the bottom. W. R. VANDERVERT. 



GINGER BREAD. 



Feather Giiigei* Bread. One cup sugar, one scant cup short- 
ening, one cup New Orleans molasses, one cup buttermilk, full 
teaspoon soda, three eggs well beaten, and two cups flour in 
which is sifted one teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon each 
cinnamon and cloves and two of ginger. 

MRS. ORRIN BARNETT. 

Ginger Cake. One and one-half cups molasses, one of sour 
milk, one half cup sugar, one half cup butter or lard, two 
small teaspoons soda, one each of ginger and cinnamon, flour 
for a thin batter. MRS. G. P. CHESSMAN. 

Ginger Bread. One cup each brown sugar, molasses, sour 
milk and lard and butter mixed, one egg, three cups flour, one 
half grated nutmeg, one teaspoon ginger, a^id two teaspoons 
soda; bake in two small dripping pans, using flour in the. bot- 
tom of pans to prevent sticking. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Molasses Cake. One cup each of butter, sugar, sour milk 
and molasses, five cups flour, two eggs, one tablespoon soda, 
one of ginger. MRS. J. H. APFLERBACH. 

Plain Sorghum Molasses Cakes. One half cup meat fryings 
or lard, half cup buttermilk, three, tablespoons hot water, one 
half teaspoon each soda and cream tartar mixed, tw^o thirds 
cup molasses, one teaspoon ground cloves or ginger, two cups 
flour well stirred in; bake in a moderately hot oven in cake 
dish or pan. MRS. D. MYRICK. 

Soft Ginger Bread. One fourth cup butter and one half 
cup browned sugar (creamed), one cup each molasses and 
sweet milk, two of sifted flour, one tablespoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon each cloves and ginger, two of baking powder, two 
eggs. If sour milk is usel dissolve one half teaspoon soda in 
tablespoon hot water, and use instead of baking powder. 

MRS. CLYDE WATERMAN. 



96 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 



DOUGHNUTS. 



Doughnuts. Three eggs beaten separately, two cups sugar, 
three small tablespoons melted butter, three teaspoons baking 
powder, one pint sweet milk, salt and spice to taste. 

MRS. G. P. ROWLEY, (Mansfield, Ohio. 
Doughnuts. Take one bowl sweet cream, the same of 
sugar, and two eggs, butter size of an egg, two large teaspoons 
baking powder and flour enough to roll out. 

MRS. C. F. GEARHART. 

Doughnuts. One cup sugar, three eggs, tour or five table- 
spoons melted lard, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoons bak- 
ing powder (sifted with the flour), a pinch of salt; flavor with 
Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon. Roll out as soft as possible. 
Fry in boiling lard. MRS. W. K. WILLIAMS. 

Doughnuts. Three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup sour milk 
or cream, one pint yeast sponge, one tablespoon lard, one 
small teaspoon soda dissolved in milk; flavor with nutmeg. 
Mix well together and make, a dough stiff enough to roll with- 
out sticking. Then roll out to about three times the thickness 
you would for cookies and cut in slices as wide as thick, and 
twist or make in any shape preferred. Have, grease hot enough 
so that doughnuts will begin to fry as soon as dropped in; 
keep turning them over so that they will be an even brown. 

' MRS. WARREN LANCASTER. 

Doughnuts. Two eggs, two cups sugar, one half cup lard or 
butter, two cups sour milk, teaspoon soda, flour to roll. 

MRS. BELLE HARRIS. 

Doughnuts. Make a sponge as for bread, let rise over 
night, and in the morning add two cups sugar, three fourths 
cup lard, three eggs, half nutmeg, one. quart sweet milk; mix 
as bread but not as stiff. Let rise, knead, let rise again; roll, 
cut in shape, let rise again and cook in hot lard. 

MRS. PETER BOHN. 

Doughnuts. Two cups each sugar and sour milk, two eggs, 
one half cup melted butter, one teaspoon soda, nutmeg or cin- 



DOUOHNUTS 97 

namon to taste; mix soft, roll thin, and fry in hot lard. Cut 
out with hole in center MRS. MARY SMALL. 

Cream Doughnuts. Beat one cup sugar and two eggs to- 
gether, add one cup sour cream, in which dissolve a level tea- 
spoon soda, a little salt, and flour enough to roll. 

MRS. LAURA M. KNAPP. 

Fried Cakes. One cup sugar, two eggs, four tablespoons but- 
ter, two teaspoons baking powder, little salt, one cup sweet 
milk, and flour enough to roll. MRS. JOHN E. EVANS. 

Fried Cakes. One cup thick sour cream, two of buttermilk, 
one and one-half of sugar, two eggs, a little salt, three small 
teaspoons soda, one teaspoon baking powder; thicken with 
flour until you can not stir longer with a spoon, then prepare 
them with as little kneading as possible. Fry quickly in hot 
lard. MRS. HELEN DIBBLE. 



FANCY DESSERTS. 



Charlotte Russe. One pint milk, one half box Knox's gela- 
tine heated with the milk until gelatine is dissolved. While 
this mixture is cooling whip one quart of sweet cream and 
mix with the abo'»e; add one teacup sugar, one teaspoon Ed- 
dy's Triple. Extract of vanilla; stir all together till it begins 
to thicken, then pour into mold or dish lined with small slices 
of sponge cake. Make in the morning for tea. As made by 

MRS. H.- C. TAYLOR. 

Corn Starch Dessert. Two and one half cups sweet milk, 
one half cup sugar, two teaspoons corn starch, place milk and 
sugar in a double boiler, when hot stir in corn starch softened 
with milk; flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract Of almond. Set 
away in molds to cool. Dressing for above: one cup of raisins; 
boil for twenty minutes or one half hour; when cool remove 
stones and chop. Just before ready to serve take whites of 
two eggs, beat to a stiff froth, add one half cup pulverized 



98 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

sugar, stir together the whites of the eggs and choppei raisins 
and serve v/iih the corn starch mold. 

MRS. G. B. FRANCE. 

Spanish Cream. One pint of milk, one third pint Knox's 
gelatine (half box), one cup sugar, four eggs; put gelatine in 
milk and let sand until soft, add sugar and boil two minutes. 
Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately; remove from stove 
and quickly add the. yolks and then the whites; flavor to taste. 
Put into molds and set in a cool place. Eat with cream. 

MRS. JOHN E. EVANS. 

Velvet Cream. Two tablespoons Knox's gelatine dissolved 
in one half glass water; one pint rich sw'eet cream, four table- 
spoons sugar; flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla or 
rose water. Put in molds and set on ice. May be served with 
or without cream. MRS. G. W. POST. 

Apple Cu.stard. Pare., core and stew six apples until fine, 
add half cup sugar; beat three eggs very light, add one half 
cup sugar and one and one half pints milk; stir well and add 
the apples, stir again and pour into a baking pan and bake 
until the custard sets. If liked a little, grated nutmeg may be 
added before it is put in oven. This is a nice dessert and pos- 
sesses the advantage of being so quickly prepared that it may 
be classed among the emergency desserts. 

MRS. CHAS. F. GILBERT. 

French Custard. Yolks of three eggs beaten with four table- 
spoons sugar, one pint sweet milk, pinch of salt; put in a tin 
pail and boil for five minutes in a kettle of hot water. Beat 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, with one tablespoon sugar; pour 
custard into a dish, cover with beaten whites of egg, brown 
slightly. Flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract vanilla. 

MRS. C. M. COWAN. 

Floatin.ii T.sland. For one common sized floating island 
have a sponge cake that will weigh a pound and a half or two 
pounds; slice it downward almost to the bottom but do not 
cut the slices apart; stand up the cake in the center of a glass 
bowl or a deep dish. Have ready a pint and a half of cream, 
make it very sweet with sugar and color it a fine green with 
a teacup of the juice of pounded spinach boiled five minutes 
by itself, strained, and made very sweet. Or for coloring pink, 



FANCY DESERTS 99 

currant jelly or the juice of preserved strawberries may be 
used. Whip to a stiff froth another pint and half sweet cream 
and flavor; pour round the cake in the dish the colored, un- 
frothed cream, and pile the whipped white all over the cake, 
highest on top. MRS. LEE DEVER. 

Floating- Island. One quart sweet milk put over hot water 
to heat, whites of six eggs beaten stiff and laid on the milk 
until cooked; remove to a platter; beat the yolks with three 
tablespoons sugar, pour hot milk over them instead of putting 
the eggs into the, milk and there will be no danger of the milk 
curdling. Flavor to taste; stir till cooked through, turn into 
custard dish. A silver spoon in the glass dish will prevent its 
breaking. Put the whites on top, and serve with a bit of jelly 
on each dish at table. MISS BIRDIE WHITCOMB. 

Fruit Salad. One pineapple thinly sliced, one pint straw- 
berries cut in two, four bananas thinly sliced, sugar to taste; 
mix and stand on ice until very cold. 

MRS. LETTIE DONNELL. 

A New Dinner Dessert. Whip a pint of cream to a froth, and 
color a very pale green with vegetable coloring. Soak one 
quarter box Knox's gelatine in one quarter cup cold water, 
until soft, then set it in hot water until it dissolves; stir three 
ounces powdered sugar into the whipped cream; then strain 
in the gelatine and mix thoroughly buf lightly. When the 
mixture begins to thicken add half teaspoon Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of vanilla and half cup blanched almonds chopped very 
fine. Pour into small glasses ready for serving, and serve very 
cold. MRS. R. V. HUNTER. 

Lemon Jelly. Soak one box Knox' gelatine in one pint cold 
water over night; four teacups granulated sugar, the grated 
rind of two lemons and juice of three; mix the gelatine, after 
having soaked it, with the lemons and sugar; set near the fire 
and stir in three pints boiling water and just let the mixture 
come to a boil, then strain through a sieve into the molds and 
serve with whipped cream. MISS KATE E. HAMILTON. 

Orange Cream of Jelly. One third box Knox's gelatine dis- 
solved in a very little warm water, four eggs, one cup sugar, 
four oranges and two and a half lemons; beat the yolks, add 



100 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

the sugar to them, then the. strained juice of the fruit and the 
dissolved gelatine; lastly add the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. Pour into a mold and set aside to stiffen. 

MRS. W. D. MEAD, Jr. 

Jelly With Kipe Fruit. Take one. half dozen ripe peaches, 
pare in quarters, sprinkle with sugar; soak a package Knox's 
gelatine in one pint cold water half an hour, add one and one 
half pints hot water to dissolve, sweeten to taste and add few 
drops of Eddy's Triple Extract of almond flavoring, then add 
the peaches. Set the whole on ice. Eat with whipped cream 
or other sauce. Whole, strawberries or raspberries are very 
nice served this way. MRS. JENNIE L. WIRT. 

Jelly for a Hot Day. Soak one half package Knox's gelatine 
half hour or more in half pint water; heat another half pint 
>vater in a tin dish over a gas jet or lamp flame until hot, pour 
it over the gelatine and stir until dissolved; add sugar to taste, 
also a teaspoon Eddy's Triple Extract lemon, orange, raspberry 
or any you may choose. Set aside to cool. Eat with cream 
and sugar, or plain. MRS. JENNIE L. WIRT. 

Fruit Salad. Slice air orange, a banana, and prepare a box 
of strawberries, sprinkle each with sugar, place in layers in a 
dish; pour over this a small quantity of prepared Knox's gel- 
atine and set away to cool. Turn out on platter. 

MRS. HATTIE MAPPS. 

Delicious Fruit Salad. One box Knox's gelatine, two coffee 
sups cold water or juice of pineapple, one pound can sliced 
pineapple, six bananas, six oranges, and juice of two lemons, 
five cups hot water, and four cups sugar; this quantity makes 
a gallon. Frst open the pineapple, drain off the juice and add 
enough water to make two cups, pour this cold liquor over 
the gelatine and let stand two hours; add to the five teacups 
of hot water the four teacups of sugar and the juice of the 
lemons (adding another lemon if too sweet), stir well until dis- 
solved, then pour in the melted gelatine and stir well. Set 
this aside until it is cool. Cut the pineapple into small bits, 
the bananas and oranges into thin slices, taking out seeds of 
oranges: mix all together, put into a gallon jar and pour over 
it the gelatine mixture; set on ice or in a cool place to harden. 
This should be made the day before using. 

MRS. CHAS. GILBERT. 



FANCY DKSERTS 101 

Pineapple Sponge. One can grated pineapple or a fresh one, 
small cup sugar, one and one half cups water, whites of four 
eggs, half a package of Knox's gelatine; chop the pineapple, 
add the sugar and water and cook ten minutes. Have gelatine 
soaked in half cup water, add to the mixture, strain and cool; 
when partially set add well whipped whites of four eggs, beat 
thoroughly and pour into molds to harden. Serve with rich 
vanilla custard or whipped cream. 

MRS. ALFRED ALLEN, (Denver, Colo.) 

Strawberiy Sponge. One quart strawberries, one half pack- 
age Knox's gelatine, one and one-half cups water, one cup 
sugar, juice of one lemon, whites of four eggs; soak gelatine 
two hours in one half cup water, mash berries and add one half 
the sugar to them, boil the remainder of sugar and cup of 
water twenty minutes, rub berries through a sieve, add gela- 
tine, to the boiling syrup, and take from the fire, then add 
berries; place in a pan of ice water and beat five minutes, add 
the whites of eggs and beat until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Pour into mold and set away to harden. Serve with sugar 
and cream. MRS. MARY WENDELL. 

Prune Whip. Steam three fourths pound of prunes until 
tender, sweeien to taste, pit, add the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, and stir all together until light; put in a dish 
and bake twenty minutes. ^7hen cold serve in a large, dish and 
cover with w^iipped cream. MRS. WINIFRED SMITH. 

StraAvberries in Sncw. Pour one cup cold water and one of 
sugar over a half package of Knox's gelatine; when soft add 
one cup boiling water, and the juice of two lemons, then the 
whites of four well beaten eggs, beat all together until very 
light and frothy. Just before it sets add one pint of whole 
straw^berries and pour into a mold w^hich has been dipped in 
water. Serve very cold with cream. MRS: GEO. HOPKINS. 

Tapioca Ice. Soak one cup of pearl tapioca over night; in 
the morning boil in water until it clears, adding one cup sugar 
and a little salt. Have a ripe pineapple chopped not very fine, 
and turn the tapioca and sugar over it while boiling hot, stir 
and turn into a mold to cool; when cold serve with sugar and 
cream. MRS. D. B. SNODGRASS. 



102 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 



Lemon Ice. Six lemons, juice of all and grated peel of three, 
one large sweet orange., juice, and rind grated, one pint each 
of water and sugar; squeeze out every drop of juice, strain 
squeezing the bag dry, mix in the sugar and then the watetr, 
stir until dissolved, add the well beaten whites of two eggs, and 
freeze by aiming in a freezer. 

MRS. G. B. FRANCE. 

Lemon Ice. The juice of six lemons, three cups sugar, five 
cups water; cook or stir the sugar and water until the sugar 
is dissolved, then add lemon juice. When this begins to freeze 
put in the well beaten whites of two eggs. Any fruit juice can 
be substituted for the lemon. In freezing any kind of ices, 
reverse the handle, as it makes smoother ice. All ices are rich- 
er and better body if left an hour to ripen. This makes three 
quarts of ice. MRS. GEO. H. JEROME. 

Strawberry Ice. Two quarts strawberries, red ripe and 
sweet, two pounds granulated sugar, three pints water; cover 
the strawberries with sugar and let them remain some time to 
form a thick red syrup. Pick out a few of the berries to be 
mixed in the ice at last, rub the rest through a strainer into 
the freezer with the syrup and add the water; freeze without 
much beating. If a crimson ice is wanted add coloring if nec- 
essary. Throw the reserved berries on top of the strawberry 
ice in the freezer and mix them in when the ice is to be served. 

MRS. W. CRABB. 

Banana Sheibet. Juice of five lemons, whites of five eggs, 
one quart sliced bananas, two and one-half cups sugar, one 
quart water. Beat the whites of eggs, add them to the other 
ingredients which have been chilled. 

MRS. C. E. BASH. (Huntington, Ind.) 

Lemon Sherbet. Make a strong lemonade (say four large 
lemons to the quart) ; make very much sweeter than for drink- 
ing. When "naif fiozen stir in the whites of eight eggs beaten 
to a stiff froch. By adding one can of finely chopped pine- 
apple this recipe makes delicious pineapple sherbet. 

MRS. MAUDE WOODS. 



ICES AXD ICK CREAM 103 

Oiaiifte Sherbet. One tablespoon Knox's gelatine, one scant 
pint water, one cup sugar, six oranges or one pint orange 
juice, half cup boiling water; soak gelatine in cold water and 
dissolve in boiling waler. Freeze rapidly. 

MRS. W. A. HARRISON. 

Pineapple Sherbet. Cn3 pint fresh or one can grated pine- 
apple, one pint sugar, one ]>int water, one tablespoon Knox's 
gelatine one lemon; the gelatine should be first soaked in cold 
water and then dissolved in boiling water. 

MRS. ANNA REED. (Atlantic Iowa.) 

Pineapple Slierbet. One can grated pineapple, one pint su- 
gar, one pint water, one tablespoon Knox's gelatine, one lemon. 
For gallon and a half: One can pineapple, one and on-half 
pints sugar, five lemons, two tablespoons gelatine, two and one 
half quarts water; soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in 
boiling water. Turn the freezer rapidly. 

MRS. W. A. HARRISON. 

Strawberry Sherbet. One quart berries, two cups sugar, 
whites of three eggs; add the sugar to the crushed berries, 
end after standing an hour strain off all the juice and add to 
it an equal amount of water. After it begins to freeze add the 
beaten whites of eggs. 

MRS. C. A. BASH. (Huntington, Ind.) 

Ice Cream. Two quarts new milk, one quart cream, three 
scant cups granulated sugar, three level tablespoons flour, eight 
eggs and one tablespoon Eddy's Triple Extract of lemon; put 
one quart milk in double boiler over the fire and when it boils 
stir in the flour previously wet with cold milk, cook thorough- 
ly, then add the well beaten yolks; as soon as the custard be- 
gins to thicken (which is almost immediately) remove from 
flre so it wjll not curdle, and add the sugar. When cold and 
ready to freeze add the remaining milk, cream,- well beaten 
whites and extract. This quantity will make five quarts of 
frozen cream. MRS. M. B. LONG. 

Delicious Ice Cream. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, add one cup sugar and a scant half cup flour; beat until 
smooth, then pour it into a pint of boiling milk. Cook thor- 
oughly. When cold add one half cup sugar, one quart cream 
and one tablespoon flavoring. (Eddy's Triple Extract. 

MRS. W. E. BROWN. (Sioux Rapids. Iowa.) 



104 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

Ice Cream. One quart new milk, put on in a double boiler, 
with two teaspoon corn starch, yolks of three eggs and sugar; 
let boil fifteen minutes. When cold add one pint thick cream 
and flavoring;' put in freezer, add beaten white of eggs and 
freeze. MRS. E. O. WRIGHT. 

Ice Cream. One quart new milk, one quart cream, one pint 
granulated sugar, whites of two eggs beaten stiff, one table- 
spoon Eddy's Triple Extract of vanilla. This is excellent and 
very easily prepared. MRS. G. W. SHIDLER. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. Three pints cream, two large r'pe 
pineapples, two pounds powdered sugar; slice the pineapples 
thin, scatter sugar between slices, cover and let fruit stand 
three hours. Cut or chop it up in the syrup and strain through 
a hair sieve or a double bag of course lace; beat gradually 
into the cream and freeze as rapidly as possible. Reserve a few 
pieces of pineapple unsugared, cut into square bits and stir 
through cream when half frozen. MRS. J. LOVE. 



DRINKS. 



Coffee. Take three tablespoons coffee ground fine, wet with 
white of one egg, add one cup cold water, put in coffee pot, 
pour enough boiling water to make a quart of coffee, let this 
come to a boil, then set back to steep for fifteen or twenty 
minutes, when it is ready to serve. 

MRS. HELEN DIBBLE. 

Filtered Coffee. A patent coffee pot with the two cylindrical 
vessels for holding the cloth in position is best for this kind of 
coffee. If this cannot be obtained have an iron ring made to fit 
the top of a common coffee pot on the inside, to this sew a 
small muslin bag (the muslin must not be too thin.) To each 
pint of boiling water use one heaping tablespoon of coffee 
(have the coffe ground as fine as pepper) ; pour the water on 
gradually; after it has filtered through once, pour out and fil- 
ter through again. Serve immediately. MRS. JAY SERVISS. 

Ralston Coffee. Two pints corn meal, six pints wheat bran. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM 105 

two cups Orleans molasses, three eggs; mix and dry, and 
brown; use one third coffee, two thirds mixture. 

MRS. MARY CUNNINGHAM. 

Orangeade. Slice two oranges and one lemon, pour over 
them a quart of boiling water, sweeten to taste; stir, and place 
on ice to cool. Delicious. MRS. MARY O. BROOKS. 

Punch. One and one-half dozen lemons, half dozen oranges, 
one gallon water; take the. juice of the lemons and half the 
oranges and sweeten to taste, then slice the remaining oranges 
without peeling and add. Grated pineapple improves it. This 
can be weakened with water if desired. 

MRS. G. W. SHIDLER. 

Punch for 100 Glasses. Two dozen lemons, one dozen 
oranges, one. can shredded pineapple, one pint sugar (more if 
desired), water to taste. MRS. A. C. WARD. 

Straivberry Water. Take one cup of ripe, hulled berries; 
crush with a wooden spoon, mixing with the mass a quarter of 
a pound of pulverized sugar and a half pint of cold water; 
pour the mixture into a fine sieve, rub through and filter till 
clear. Add the strained juice of one lemon, and one and a half 
pints cold water; mix thoroughly and set in ice chest till 
wanted. This makes a nice cool drink on a warm day and is 
easily made in strawberry season. 

MRS. ARTHUR WELLMAN. 



CANDY. 



Chocolate Creams. One cup cream, four cups sugar; boil 
twenty minutes and stir while cooling. When cool roll in 
in balls and cover with melted chocolate. 

MISS BELLE WARNER. 

Chocolate Drops. Two and one-half cups pulverized or 
granulated sugar (maple sugar may be used), one half cup cold 
water; boil four minutes, place saucepan in cold water and 
beat until cold enough to make, into little balls. Take one half 
cake Baker's chocolate, shave off fine and put in a bowl, set in 



106 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

top of boiling teakettle to melt, and when balls are cool 
enough roll in the chocolate with a fork. This makes eighty. 
Or while making the balls mold an almond meat into the 
center of each ball, roll in coarse, sugar and you have delicious 
cream almonds. MISS LEONA STAFFORD. 

Fudges. Two cups sugar, one cup milk, butter size of a 
walnut, two squares of chocolate and flavor.-ng; boil till makes 
a soft ball in water. Beat until it begins to thicken, thtn pour 
into buttered pan. MRS. .J. R. PIERSCN. 

Molasses Candy. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon sharp vinegar. Boil until it hardens when piit in 
water. MISS MAY WILCOX. 

Nut Candy. Whites of as many eggs as you want; one 
tablespoon of water to each white of egg, enough pulverized 
sugar to make it stiff; flavor with Eddy's Triple Extract of va- 
nilla, roll in balls and put an English walnut on the top of 
each. MISS EDNA BYERS. 

Taffy Candy. To a quart of "Honey Drip" syrup add two 
cups granulated sugar, butter size of a walnut. When put into 
water if it hardens it is done. When done add small pinch of 
soda, put in pans to cool, and pull. 

MISS MARION CARPENTER. 

AVhite Cream Candy. Four cups granulated sugar, two 
thirds cup water, one third cup vinegar, butter size of an egg, 
one tablespoon glycerine, two tablespoons Eddy's Triple Ex- 
tract of vanilla, boil all except vanilla, without stirring, twenty 
or thirty minutes or until crisp when dropped in water. Just 
before pouring upon plates to cool add small teaspoon soda. 
After pouring uj)on plates add the vanilla. This can be pulled, 
beautifully white. Make in strips and cut with shears. 

MRS. J. H. COWELL. 



CANNED FOriTS 10' 



CANNED FRUITS. 
PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 



How to Can Fresh Fruit. Dissolve one teaspoon salicylic 
acid and one cup white sugar in a quart of boiling water and 
let stand until cold; fill jars with clean, fresh, uncooked fruit, 
pour over the above cold mixture until fruit is covered, then 
seal. Fruit prepared this way retains its color and flavor and 
I know will keep for years, as I have used this recipe for a 
long time. MRS. J. S. BROWN. 

Canned Peaches. Have ready a kettle of boiling water, peel 
peaches and put in this until thoroughly heated through; lift 
carefully with a wire spoon and place in glass jar. Have a 
kettle of boiling syrup ready and fill jar up with the syrup; 
seal and put in dark place. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 

Canned Strawberries... ..After the berries are picked over 
place carefully on a platter as many as can be put in the pre- 
serving kettle at ohe time; to each pound of fruit add three 
fourths pound sugar, let stand until the juice, is drawn from 
them, drain the juice into the kettle and let come to a boil, re- 
move the scum which rises, then put in the berries very care- 
fully. As soon as they become thoroughly heated put in warm 
jars, adding the juice, and seal while boiling hot. 

MRS. B. F. GRAHAM. 

Combination Butter. Take of nice ripe plums one gallon; 
place over the fire with sufficient water to raise; cook gently 
until soft and seeds are easily removed, then set aside until cool 
enough to be easily rubbed through a fruit sieve. Return to 
the fire and have one gallon of good ripe musk melon peeled 
and sliced in small pieces; add this to the plums and cook 
gently until a nice smooth butter. Flavor with cinnamon and 
sweeten to taste. Can while hot. MRS. MARY WENDELL. 

Cranberry Mold. Use half as much water as cranberries, 
stew until quite soft, strain through colander, then take equal 
parts strained sauce and sugar, boil quickly, pour in mold and 
let cool. Serve with roast trukey or game. 

MRS. D. C. BELL. 



108 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Camphor Ice. One ounce each of glycerine, oil of sweet al- 
monds, spermaceti, white wax and pulverized camphor; dis- 
solve wax and spermaceti, add oils, then take from the stove 
and add camphor and stir until cold. 

MRS. HATTIE MAPPS. 

Quince and Sweet Apple Preserves. Use equal parts of 
(luinces and sweet apples; stew quinces alone, in just enough 
water to cover, till tender. Take out quinces and add to the 
water sugar sufficient to equal the quantity of quinces and 
enough more to equal one fourth the quantity of apples; when 
syrup boils add apples. After these- become hot put in quinces 
and cook all together till clear. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Preserved Cherries. For every pint of seeded cherries take 
cne pint granulated sugar; mix carefully and let stand on the 
back of the stove till sugar is melted, then place over the fire 
and let boil fifteen minutes, remove and can immediately. 
Cherries preserved in this way may seem thin, but do not pos- 
sess that strong flavor like those boiled longer, The light red 
eherry is preferred. MRS. B. M. LONG. 

Rhubarb Jelly. A beautiful jelly can be made from pie 
plant. Cut the stalk, after washing, in small pieces, but do 
not peel, add enough water to cook until tender, put in a bag 
to drain, let stand several hours, then to five cups juice, take 
four cups granulated sugar; boil juice tv/enty minutes, add 
sugar and boil until it jellies, which will be in ten or fifteen 
minutes. This recipe makes a beautiful pink jelly. 

MRS. CHAS. P. GILBERT. 

Currant Jelly. Pick currants, wash carefully, put in a ket- 
tle and cover with cold water; cook slowly until thoroughly 
done, strain through a calonder and afterwards strain through 
a thin cloth. Take equal parts sugar and juice and boil slowly 
for about five minutes; pour in the glasses and let stand until 
cold, then moisten a piece of writing paper in brandy, and 
cover before putting on the lids. MRS. JESSE LOVE. 



MISCELLANEOUS 10^ 

Preparation For Cleaning: Carpet. For ten gallons take five 
bars Ivory soap (laundry size), one pound powdered borax, one 
ounce glycerine: shave soap fine, put into four gallons soft 
v/ater in boiler, let heat until thoroughly dissolved, then pour 
in six gallons soft cold water, let stand until thoroughly cold 
and it is ready for use. MRS. A. L. SNOW. 

Washing Fluid. One pound Lewis lye four ounces pulver- 
ized borax, one ounce salts tartar, one gallon water; dissolve 
by heating, when cold add two ounces aqua ammonia. Keep 
in glass jars. Use one teacup to three pails water ,and soak 
clothes in it over night. It may be used in boiling clothed 
also. Whitens clothes, but does not injure them. 

MRS. E. Y. LAWRENCE, (Wallace, Neb. 

Furniture Polish. Two thirds linseed oil, one third coal oil. 
Apply with flannel and polish with clean flannel. 

MRS. J. C. KECKLEY. 

Furniture Polish. Sixteen ounces each of alcohol and lin- 
seed oil, one ounce each of ether and balsam fir. B. KING. 

Piano Polish. One quart raw linseed oil, one half pint tur- 
pentine, four ounces each alcohol, ammonia, and benzine. 

B. KING. 

Polish for Starch. One half ounce white wax, two ounces- 
white paraffine, two ounces spermaceti one grain ultramarine 
blue; put in small pieces in a tin pan, melt together, stirring 
the ultramarine blue in after the others are melted, and let 
cool in cake. Use a piece of polish the size of a hazelniic to a 
quart of starch, after the starch is oTssolved, before putting in 
the hot water. Iron shirt in ordinary way, dry thoroughly; 
after ironing then place on polishing board, without covering, 
and after slightly moistened, finish with round part of a polish- 
ing iron, by going crosswise over the linen, holding the iron 
at a quarter angle, giving the iron a quick, rolling, sliding mo- 
tion, and having the iron hot. MRS. MARY J. STAHL. 

Oatmeal Wash For Face and Hands. Put one pound fine 
meal in three pints cold water; let it stand twelve hours, then 
■nit it in a bag to drip. To the distilled liquid add one ounce 
glycerine and one gill alcohol. MRS. MARY WENDELL. 



110 THE YORK COOK BOOK. 

To Brighten and Clean Carpet. Take equal parts of barrel 
salt and corn meal, dampen with water; sprinkle the carpet 
Vv'ith this and sweep the carpet very hard. This will also pre- 
vent moth from eating carpet; use more salt in this case. 

MINNIE P. JOHNSON. 



HINTS. 



Half a teaspoonful of sugar will nearly always revive a dyr 
ing fire, and is always a safe thing to use for this purpose. 

The unpleasant noise of a squeaking shoe will often be en- 
tirely removed by soaking the sole of the shoe in oil. Pour a 
small quantity of linseed or sweet oil upon an old plate or flat 
dish and allow the soles of the shoes to stand in the oil over 
I'ight. 

FOR MOTHS, 'oop.k a piece of paper or rag in some spirits 
of turpentine r.nd place it for a day in your bureau, trunks, 
closets anil everywhere you are afraid ihey will make an attack. 
Two or three times a year will be quite sufficient. More than 
this would cause the clothes to smell unpleasantly. 

In baking puddings set the pudding dish in a pan of hot 
water and the pudding will neither scorch nor become watery. 

If vinegar is placed on the stove and allowed to boil it will 
help neutralize the odor of onions while cooking. 

To keep jellies fronj!» molding cover them over with pulver- 
ized sugar to the depth of a quarter of an inch. 

In canning fruit Put on the top and tighten with the hand 
of clamp, then with the back of a knife press down the edge 
of the top firmly on the rubber. Invert the can and let stand 
upside down untilperfectly cold, thus allowing the fruit juice 
to help seal the jars. Do not disturb the lids by trying to 
lighten still more after the jars become cold. 

Nothing cleans water bottles more effectually than tea leaves 
and vinegar, which should be well shaken about in them and 
the bottle then rinsed with cold water. 

A little salt on a damp cloth will remove egg stain from 
silver, and will also remove tea stains from china. 



MISCELLAXEOUS 111 

In beating the whites of eggs add a pinch of salt. 

Try a handful of sugar in the water in boiling sweet corn. 

SOME OF THE USES OF KEROSENE. The latest dis- 
covery as to the. use of kerosene is that it softens boots or 
shoes which have become harsh from water soaking, making 
them as pliable as when new. They should then have a coat of 
castor oil to prevent a like condition. It is also good for clean- 
ing silverware. 

To tell when a cake is done moisten the tip of a finger and 
touch the bottom of the pan, and if it hisses it is done. 

Salt is a sure, preventive of moths in carpets if put around 
the edges when tacked down. 

In roasting meat the time allowed, that is, a quarter of an 
hour for every pound, must be reckoned from the moment the 
meat begins to cook, and not from the time it is put into the 
oven, and even with this precaution a little e.xtra time should 
be allowed, unless the meat is required underdone. 

All boiling puddings must be plunged at once into boiling 
water, and the water must never for a moment be allowed to 
cease boiling. To dish a pudding, plunge it for a moment into 
cold water, and it will turn without breaking. 

A few drops of glycerine put in the fruit jars the last thing 
before sealing them will keep them from molding. 

When baking cake, instead of using paper in pans, grease 
[hem well and sprinkle well with flour, shaking off the. surplus. 

TO KEEP JELLY. Cut heavy writing paper to fit the top 
of jelly cup, grease paper with butter and lay on the jelly, then 
cover the top of glass with soft manilla paper moistening with 
the white of an egg. Set away in a cool, dry, dark place. 



I^OV 2T ^Slt 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



NOV 2rK^ 



