THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



THE 

SCIENCE OF LIVING 

OR THE 

ART OF KEEPING WELL 



BY 

WILLIAM S. SADLER, M.D. 

PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGIC THERAPEUTICS, THE POST GRADUATE MEDICAL 
SCHOOL OF CHICAGO; DIRECTOR OF THE CHICAGO INSTITUTE OF 
PHYSIOLOGIC THERAPEUTICS: MEMBER OF THE ILLINOIS STATE 
MEDICAL SOCIETY, THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, 
THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCE- 
MENT OF SCIENCE, THE AMERICAN HEALTH 

LEAGUE, THE SIXTEENTH INTER- 
NATIONAL MEDICAL CON- 
GRESS, ETC. 
AUTHOR OF "THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COLDS 11 



ILLUSTRATED 
THIRD EDITION 





CHICAGO 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 
1911 







COPTBIGHT 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 
1910 

Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England 
Published March 26, 1910 

Second Edition, April 30, 1910 
Third Edition, April 1, 1911 



MICROFILMED BY 
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 

LIBRARY 
MASTER NEGATIVE NO.: 



PRESS OF THE VAIL COMPANY 
COSHOCTOM, U. S. A. 



TO 
MY ESTEEMED WIFE 

DR. LENA K. SADLER 

MY PROFESSIONAL CO-LABORER, 
FAITHFUL HELPER, AND FRIENDLY CRITIC, 

THIS VOLUME IS 
AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED 



PREFACE 

THE author's purpose in this book is to present to the lay 
reader, the teacher, the student, and the health-seeker, 
a concise outline of Modern Hygiene as developed in the 
great research laboratories of the world, free from scientific 
technicalities and medical terms to tell the Story of Health 
in plain, everyday English. 

The largeness of the scope of this work necessarily en- 
forces brevity, therefore references and citations are largely 
omitted. The writer has freely consulted the latest stand- 
ard medical text-books on Physiology and Hygiene, although 
much of the matter appearing in this volume is drawn from 
his own lectures, " The Natural Life," " The Art of Living." 
"The High Pressure Life," "How the Body Resists Dis- 
ease," " Worry : Its Cause and Cure," and others. 

His aim is to present a practical, sane, and sensible 
method of living the Simple Life free from fads and the 
teachings of fanatical extremists. 

Almost every new moon witnesses the birth of some new 
system of healing. The public is deluged with the teach- 
ings of various cults and " isms," the majority of which, 
directly or indirectly, have to do with health and healing. 
Because of these numerous systems of healing, sailing under 
various guises, there seems to exist a real necessity for a 
straightforward presentation of the latest discoveries and 
decrees of science, respecting the standards of living neces- 
sary to the maintenance of good physical health. 

Many problems of physics and chemistry are concerned 
in the human body; and for the sake of those who may be 
interested in these problems, brief notes appear through 
the book, considering them as related to health. A brief 
outline of the physiology and anatomy concerned is also to 
be found in most of the chapters. 

vii 



viii PREFACE 

Mind and matter are closely related in the organization 
of the human body. The health of the body is not regulated 
entirely by physical laws and rules of hygiene. The men- 
tal condition of the individual, his social surroundings, and 
even his moral state, are all involved in the consideration of 
health and disease. 

It is not the intention to deal with vague theories, or to 
discuss the philosophy of health. The aim is to furnish 
practical instruction, such as has proved useful to the thou- 
sands who have attended the author's lectures at Chautau- 
quas and other assemblies. 

If the reader can be convinced that health and disease are 
not matters of chance ; that they are regulated by the univer- 
sal laws of sowing and reaping; that health when once lost 
is ordinarily regained only by faithful cultivation; that dis- 
ease is due neither to the anger of the gods nor to a mys- 
terious dispensation of Providence; that sickness is a con- 
sequence, directly or indirectly, of a violation of Nature's 
laws: if these fundamental principles of health and disease 
are made plainer to the reader, and if the pathway to health 
can be more clearly opened up, then this book will have ac- 
complished its mission and fulfilled the design of its author. 

WILLIAM S. SADLER. 
100 State Street, Chicago, Feb. I, ipio. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. INTRODUCTORY i 

II. THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY 5 

III. THE VITALIZING SUNLIGHT 15 

IV. NATURAL BREATHING, OR THE VITALIZED LIFE . . 25 
V. MUSCULAR EXERCISE, OR THE ACTIVE LIFE ... 35 

VI. THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 48 

VII. THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 63 

VIII. THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 77 

IX. A STUDY OF FOODS 104 

X. POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 129 

XI. SIMPLE EATING, OR THE NOURISHED LIFE .... 143 
XII. MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 159 

XIII. PURE WATER DRINKING, OR THE REFRESHED LIFE . 176 

XIV. REGULAR BATHING, OR THE CLEAN LIFE . . . . 195 
XV. THE CIRCULATION, OR THE HIGH-PRESSURE LIFE . 212 

XVI. How THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 234 

XVII. REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE .... 250 

XVIII. FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 267 

XIX. THE CAUSE OF WORRY 278 

XX. THE CURE OF WORRY 291 

XXI. HYGIENE AND SANITATION, OR THE PREVENTION OF 

DISEASE 306 

XXII. HYGIENE AND SANITATION, OR THE PREVENTION OF 

DISEASE (CONTINUED) 327 

XXIII. HEALTH HINTS 347 

APPENDIX 367 

FOOD TABLES 37 

INDEX 387 



LIST OF PLATES 



PAGE 

FIG. i. Living Cells, Animal and Vegetable 4 

FIGS. 2, 3. Diagrams illustrating Cell Reproduction ... 6 

FIG. 4. Various Cells of the Body 10 

FIG. 5. The Lungs and Terminal Bronchiole 26 

Fio. 6. Diagrams illustrating Right and Wrong Breathing 28 
FIG. 7. Diagrams showing Method of taking Special 

Breathing Exercises 30 

FIG. 8. Improper Sitting Posture 38 

FIG. 9. Sitting in the " Reformed Chair " 38 

FIG. 10. Diagrams showing how to secure Proper Stand- 
ing and Sitting Positions 40 

FIG. II. Various Fashion Deformities 54 

FIG. 12. Venus de Milo 56 

FIG. 13. Diagram of the Digestive System 64 

FIG. 14. Diagram illustrating the Pawlow Stomach ... 72 
FIG. 15. The Muscles Concerned in Swallowing and the 

Taste Buds 148 

FIG. 16. Diagrams showing Effect of Cooking on Starch 

Granules 150 

FIG. 17. The Kidney 200 

FIG. 18. Cabinet Bath 200 

FIG. 19. Illustrations of the Wet Sheet Pack 210 

FIG. 20. Diagrams showing the Heart and the Circulation 
of the Blood and the Method of taking the 

Blood Pressure 214 

FIG. 21. Cold Mitten Friction and the Sun Bath . . . .228 
FIGS. 22-26. How the Body resists Disease . . . .240 
FIGS. 27-30. How the Body resists Disease .... 244 
FIG. 31. The Nervous System and the Nerves . . . .252 

FIG. 32. The Sympathetic Nervous System 254 

FIGS. 33-38. Ventilation Diagrams 274 

FIG. 39. A Group of Disease Germs 310 

FIG. 40. A Group of Animal Parasites 312 

FIG. 41. Flies as Disease Carriers * . . 328 

Fi. 42. How to sleep Out-of-Doors 340 

XI 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

OR 
THE ART OF KEEPING WELL 

CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTORY 

CELL INSTINCT. ANIMAL INSTINCTS. HEALTH AND DISEASE. 
THE CONQUEST OF DISEASE. HYGIENIC SPENDTHRIFTS. 

THE secret of life has puzzled the wisest of all ages. 
The mystery of being, whether manifested in the mi- 
crobe or in man, presents a thousand problems too wonderful 
to be grasped. .. - 

CELL INSTINCT 

It is certain that all living cells, vegetable and animal, 
possess a kindred intelligence which constantly leads them 
in the direction of growth, self-preservation, and the re- 
production of their kind. 

On one hand is the blind, unreasoning show of force and 
energy in the world of inanimate things ; on the other hand, 
and removed from it by all the distance in the world, are 
the vital energy and seemingly intelligent behavior of the 
various cells of the animal body which exhibit such won- 
derful adaptability and show of purpose in their power to 
accord with their ever-changing surroundings, in the work 
of maintaining the body's health and defending it against 
disease. 

This unique intelligence or instinct of cell-life is not con- 
fined to the human species. The marvellously wrought nest 
of the oriole, the ingenious dam of the beaver, the subter- 
ranean passageways of the underground mansion of the 

I 



2 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

tarantula, the almost human ingenuity shown by the various 
ant tribes in the construction of their dwelling-places, the 
skilful silkworm spinners, and even the common spider in 
the weaving of its web, all bear testimony to the universal 
intelligence pervading the animal world, ever wisely guiding 
it in the activities necessary to life, safety, and comfort. 
Even the plants are not devoid of this peculiar intelligence. 
Timepieces have been designed, called botanical clocks, hav- 
ing various plants which open or bloom at stated hours, 
planted in the proper position upon the earthly dial, which 
will accurately indicate the time, day or night, within a 
few minutes. 

ANIMAL INSTINCTS 

Man, in common with the lower animals, possesses many 
natural instincts such as taste, hunger, and thirst, designed 
to guide him in the pursuit of health and happiness ; 
but, unfortunately, these intuitions have been blunted or 
destroyed by his unnatural ways of living. Obedience 
to the laws of hygiene the adoption of right methods 
of living will result in greatly restoring these injured 
sensibilities. 

The homing pigeon circles in the air, then starts in a 
straight line for home. The sense of smell, so keen in the 
dog, is almost obliterated in man. Man's sense of hearing 
is much less acute than that of the lower animals. 

Sensations of fatigue and pain are friendly voices of 
warning. They might be called the conscience of the body, 
warning us against disregard of Nature's laws. Pain has 
been called the prayer of the nerve for rest or relief. Even 
the power to awaken morning by morning is a marvellous 
attribute of animal life, which has not yet been wholly ex- 
plained by modern science. 

As the attraction of gravitation seems to draw together 
and unify the matter and energy of the inanimate world, so 
cell-instinct, intelligence call it what you will is the 
unifying, directing impulse of living bodies which, after all, 



INTRODUCTORY 3 

are but collections of tiny living creatures called cells. (See 
Fig. i.) 

HEALTH AND DISEASE, 

When all the cells of the human body act in a normal 
manner ; when nothing is present to irritate or destroy them ; 
when each little separate cell is healthy in body and properly 
performs its functions, we have a bodily condition known 
as " health." When the cells of the body are poisoned, irri- 
tated, or otherwise crippled or destroyed, so that they are 
unable to perform their work properly, some form of acute 
or chronic disease results. 

Health results when the body is working under favorable 
and natural conditions; the same laws of being produce 
disease when the body is compelled to do its work under 
unfavorable and unnatural conditions unsanitary or un- 
hygienic surroundings. 

In recent years the methods of studying health and in- 
vestigating disease have greatly changed. The modern labo- 
ratory, with its instruments of precision, its great facilities 
for physical and chemical research, has given birth to the 
present-day system of preventive medicine or modern 
hygiene. 

THE CONQUEST OF DISEASE. 

Science is rapidly achieving the conquest of the great 
world-plagues and many death-dealing diseases which af- 
flict the human race. In the face of this great victory we 
are compelled to recognize the fact that the majority of 
chronic diseases, resulting from the disregard of the laws 
of hygiene, are enormously on the increase. While the 
dangers of the so-called " germ diseases " are being lessened, 
the " habit diseases," those resulting from wrong practices 
of eating, drinking, sleeping, etc., are greatly on the in- 
crease yes, they are increasing by leaps and bounds. 

A world-wide struggle is now going on between the ma- 
lignant forces of disease and the trained forces of science. 



4 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Science wages this war in the arena of hygiene for the pres- 
ervation of the race. A thousand and one agencies are 
constantly at work to accomplish man's destruction; and the 
modern science of hygiene represents the rules of success- 
ful warfare by which the earnest health-seeker may maintain 
or regain the priceless boon of health. 

The human body possesses great inherent capacity for 
automatic self-repair. There are resident within the body 
itself, extraordinary and marvellous powers of resistance 
against the unfriendly forces of disease. When the body is 
combating the invading foes of health, its success or defeat 
in the vital struggle is often determined by our ignorance of 
or inattention to the laws of hygiene the divine rules of life 
and health. 

HYGIENIC SPENDTHRIFTS 

We all know men and women who seem to enjoy good 
health in spite of their utter disregard of all the laws of 
hygiene. These people prove a stumbling-block to many 
earnest health-seekers, who cannot understand how some 
people can enjoy health though they live at variance with 
all its rules. The explanation is simple: they inherited a 
vast legacy of strength and vitality from their ancestors, 
more, perhaps, than can be squandered in a single lifetime; 
but it will be observed that many of these hygienic spend- 
thrifts exhibit in the lives of their posterity the results of 
their own foolish living. In the majority of cases, their 
children are found to be weak and diseased. Like the ex- 
travagant sons of a wealthy father, they are able luxuriously 
to spend their inherited vital riches without a sense of dep- 
rivation during their own lifetimes, but having thus ex- 
hausted the riches of inherited physical wealth, they are 
unable to bequeath vital energy and resistance to succeeding 
generations; and the weazened, pale, and sickly children of 
such parents testify to the infallible operation of the uni- 
versal law of sowing and reaping. " The fathers have eaten 
sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge." 




Typhoid Ger 




Pus Germs 





Group of Amoebae ( Sfagmnl l>fafer 




Hemafococcus (fern Wafer) 





Vorhcella ( Bell Animal.) 





(Gray Mould) 



Spirogyra ( Green Scum) 




Starch Cells, 



ffi) /% 



Blood Cells 




Fat Cells 



FIG. I.- Living Cells.- Animal and Vegefable. 



CHAPTER II 

THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY 

SPECIALIZED CELLS. WONDERFUL SIMPLICITY. EPITHELIAL CELLS. 
CONNECTIVE TISSUE CELLS. MUSCLE CELLS. BLOOD CELLS 
AND BLOOD-VESSELS. THE RED BLOOD CORPUSCLES. THE WHITE 
BLOOD CORPUSCLES. THE WHITE CELLS IN OLD AGE. THE 
LYMPH CELLS. NERVE CELLS. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. THE 
BODY A COMMONWEALTH. 

THE human body may be compared to an elaborate brick 
mansion, with an almost infinite number of apartments. 
The cells of the body may be compared to the bricks of the 
mansion living bricks, held together by a wonderful ce- 
ment a substance secreted by the living cells themselves. 

The cells of both vegetable and animal tissues are con- 
stantly changing. Some live for days, months, or even 
years; others live but a few hours. There is, therefore, ne- 
cessity for constant creation of new cells. This is accom- 
plished in two ways: 

1. The one-celled organisms, such as the amoeba, repro- 
duce themselves by a simple division of the body. The 
original " mother " cell divides into two new " daughter " 
cells, which grow up and reproduce themselves after the 
same manner. (See Fig. 2.) 

2. In the living beings higher up in the scale of life, a 
more complicated process of cell reproduction occurs. Cer- 
tain changes take place in the centre of the cell, after which 
this central portion divides into two halves, each taking up 
a different position in the cell body, and subsequently the 
cell itself divides. (See Fig. 3.) 

The cells of ordinary yeast reproduce themselves by a 
budding process. Little branches bud out from the parent 
cell, and sometimes three or four generations will be found 
existing together at one time. (See Fig. i.) 

5 



6 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

SPECIALIZED CELLS. 

In many respects all the cells of the body are alike, but 
in form and function they differ greatly. The brain cells 
are devoted to thinking; the stomach cells to secreting gas- 
tric juice; the liver cells to destroying body poisons; the 
muscle cells to contraction, etc. Some idea of the enormous 
number of cells united together in the body, may be had 
from the estimate of a German scientist, who ventured the 
guess that there were 26,500,000,000,000 cells in the human 
form. 

Living cells consist of protoplasm, a living substance re- 
sembling the white of an egg. Protoplasm contracts and 
expands under the influence of heat and cold or mechanical 
irritation. It secretes digestive substances, and possesses the 
wonderful power of self-division, by which it can reproduce 
itself and thus perpetuate its existence. 

Protoplasm is composed of certain simple chemical ele- 
ments hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, sulphur, and 
phosphorus. It is simply " living dust," or what some one 
has termed " illuminated dust." When the life has departed 
from the cell, it is found to consist of nothing more or less 
than certain dead chemical substances with which the earth 
itself abounds, 

WONDERFUL SIMPLICITY. 

Many of the cells of the body are the same in structure as 
that one-celled organism, the amoeba, found in stagnant pools ; 
and they are very similar to it even in function. (See Figs, 
i, 2.) This unique little animal, although it has no legs, 
when it desires to go from one place to another, simply pushes 
out a little, arm-like projection, its body going in that direc- 
tion, and in this way it moves about in quest of food. Hav- 
ing no lungs, it breathes with the entire surface of its body. 
It has no muscles, and yet it can contract, expand, and con- 
tort its body. It apparently has no brain or nervous system, 
and yet it seems to show thought in its movements for self- 
protection, etc. It has no stomach, and yet it eats smaller 




FIG 2.' Simple Division - THE AMOEB/ 




FIG. 3.' Complex Division- Cells of higher An ima/s. 



JJ/agrams illustrating ce/l reproduct/oi 



THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY ? 

organisms and digests them within a temporary stomach of 
its body created for this purpose, which disappears at the 
conclusion of the meal. It has no organs of elimination, and 
yet it casts out from its body both solid and liquid refuse. 
Scientists call this little animal a " simple organism " ; but a 
single-cell body, seen only through the microscope, which 
can accomplish all these wonders without special organs, 
cannot but impress one as being a very wonderful and com- 
plicated little being. In the human body the cells do not 
possess the wonderful versatility of the amoeba. 

The amoeba represents primitive society, in which every 
man was his own blacksmith, carpenter, shoemaker, miller, 
etc.; whereas the cells of the human body represent condi- 
tions found in modern society, where every man works at 
his own trade. The carpenter works in wood, buying his 
shoes from the shoemaker and his flour from the miller. 
Every cell in the human body has a special work to do. The 
human body represents the highest specialization of cell- 
function to be found in the animal world. 

It will now be in order to review briefly and systematically 
the various cells and tissues of the body, before taking up 
the study of their hygiene. The cells or tissues of the 
body may be divided into five classes: 

1. Epithelial tissues, 

2. Connective tissues, 

3. Muscle tissues, 

4. Blood and blood-vessels, 

5. Nerve tissues. 

EPITHELIAL CELLS 

Epithelial cells are found wherever the body needs pro- 
tection, as in the case of the skin. The lining of the lungs, 
kidney, stomach, bowels, and other internal organs, also con- 
sist of epithelium. (See Fig. 4.) In the lungs the epithe- 
lium is so thin that gases can readily pass through it; in 
the stomach, liver, etc., it secretes digestive fluids; while in 
the intestines it is able to gather up and absorb the digested 
food and carry it into the blood. 



8 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

In some portions of the air passages, the epithelial cells 
have power to move fluids or solids over their surface by 
means of little cilia or hair-like projections, which execute 
a waving motion in a given direction. These cells consist 
of ciliated epithelium. (See Fig. 4.) 

The skin is made up of several layers of epithelial cells; 
the outer or "horny" layer is very similar to the hoofs of 
animals. The finger nails and toe nails are a special forma- 
tion of this horny layer of the skin. Corns are formed by 
the long-continued irritation of this horny layer of the skin, 
causing an increased production of these cells. 

The average person has about seventeen square feet of 
skin. Under the microscope, this skin surface looks like a 
vast mountain range, and because of its uneven surface 
(many of the glands opening on the sides of these eleva- 
tions) we have the anomaly of thirty-two thousand square 
feet of sweat glands opening on only seventeen square feet 
of skin. 

There are twenty-five hundred little sweat pores to the 
square inch in some parts of the body; and one anatomist 
has estimated that if all the little sweat tubes which pass 
out through the skin, were united end to end, they would 
make a sewer ten miles long. 

The hairs grow out from the deeper layers of the skin and 
are very thick in some places. Growing from the head of 
the average individual who is not afflicted with that de- 
ficiency of covering sometimes observed in the autumn of 
life, there are to be found about two hundred and fifty 
thousand hairs. 

The epithelial lining of the lungs amounts to about two 
thousand square feet, being equivalent to a lot about fifty 
by forty feet. One authority has estimated that there are 
725,000,000 of little terminal air sacs, through whose thin 
walls the respiratory gases are exchanged. 

The mucous membrane lining the bowel consists of about 
eighty square feet of epithelium, while the little suction 
pumps of the intestines, which draw up and absorb the di- 
gested food, are thought to number about ten millions. 



THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY 



CONNECTIVE TISSUE CELLS 

The connective tissues consist of various cells, which are 
built into structures for holding the body together. (See 
Fig. 4.) Subcutaneous tissue resembles mosquito-bar and 
binds the skin to the muscles. Another form of connective 
tissue is the tendon white fibrous tissue which binds 
the muscles to the bones. Yellow elastic tissue, found in 
some of the ligaments, also belongs to this class. 

Adipose, or fatty tissue, is another variety of connective 
tissue. The fat-cell is simply a cell in which the protoplasm 
has been largely replaced by fat. These cells serve the 
double purpose of rounding out the form and providing a 
fuel reserve. In case of starvation it is the first tissue to 
be yielded up to the body's demand for heat and energy. 
Cartilage is another connective tissue found on the ends of 
bones, separating them where they come in contact. 

The bones, forming the framework or skeleton of the body, 
belong to the connective tissues. The human body contains 
over two hundred distinct and separate bones, which serve 
for the attachment of muscles, and, in connection with the 
muscular system, constitute man a great working machine, 
representing in his anatomy almost every known principle 
of mechanical leverage. 

MUSCLE CELLS, 

We have two forms of muscular tissue, the voluntary or 
striated, and the involuntary or non-striated. (See Fig. 4.) 
The voluntary muscles receive their nerve supply largely 
from the brain and spinal cord. The involuntary muscles, 
which are chiefly found in the internal organs the in- 
testines, blood-vessels, etc. receive their nerve supply from 
the sympathetic nervous system, whose great nerve centre 
is located in the abdomen. Six hundred of the voluntary 
muscles in the body have been named. 

The heart is a special form of muscle one of the most 
powerful in the body. The first. day of an infant's life, 



10 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

this wonderful muscle contracts and -expands two hundred 
thousand times. In the average adult the heart beats over 
one hundred thousand times a day, or thirty-seven million 
times a year; while in a man seventy years of age, this 
marvellous living pump has discharged its six ounces of 
blood at each beat, the enormous number of twenty-five hun- 
dred million times. The amount of work done by the heart 
in seventy years of service represents the lifting of almost 
half a million tons. 

BLOOD CELLS AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

These living tubes consist of three layers of muscles, con- 
nective tissue, and a lining which is called endothelium. 
The smallest vessels the capillaries are just large 
enough for the blood corpuscles to pass through in single 
file. The capillaries connect the veins with the arteries, and 
are largely found in the skin and internal organs. (See 
Fig. 4.) While the heart is a central pump starting the 
blood-stream, the arteries perform a regular milking move- 
ment, which is very important to the circulation of the 
blood. 

Much of the liquid portion of the blood is allowed to 
pass out through the endothelial walls of the capillaries to 
bathe the tissues with its nourishing substance. This es- 
caped portion of the blood-stream is gathered up in the 
lymph spaces and, by means of the lymphatic channels, is 
carried back to the blood-vessels. 

The human body has five hundred and fifty arteries which 
haye been dignified with names, while anatomists have esti- 
mated that all the blood-vessels in the body if placed end 
to end, would make a great blood-channel one thousand 
miles long. 

THE RED BLOOD CORPUSCLES 

The blood and lymph cells differ from those of the rest 
of the body cells in that they float about in the body fluids, 
while the other cells have a fixed location. The red blood 



o 




o 



Pec/ Cells Whtie Ce//s 

Blood Cells 





5 1 mple 



Granular 



Ciliated Stratified 

Epithelial Cells 




Bone Cells Fat Cells 





Cart Hag e Elastic Fibres 
Connective Tissue Cells 



Voluntary Muscle Cells 
Muscle Cells 



Arte> 



Vein 





Capillary Heart- Muscle 

G/ooc/ Vessels 




FIG. 4.- Various Cells of the Body. 



THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY II 

corpuscles are little round cells about 1-3200 of an inch in 
diameter. (See Fig. 4.) There are several millions of 
these tiny creatures in a single drop of rich, red blood. 
These cells owe their red color to the combined iron and 
oxygen found in their bodies. They travel to the lungs, 
giving up the carbonic acid gas (CO 2 ) taken up from the 
tissues, receiving oxygen in exchange, which in turn is car- 
ried to the tissues. 

THE WHITE BLOOD CORPUSCLES 

These wonderful little cells can wrap themselves around 
a disease germ and literally eat it up. (See Fig. 4.) It 
is due to the presence of these little white cells in the 
blood that we are able to fight numerous diseases and to 
destroy the germs of many an infectious malady. They are 
found in the blood in three different sizes small, medium, 
and large, and are more commonly called leucocytes. 

These little white cells are very courageous in their at- 
tacks upon some disease germs, but are very cowardly in 
approaching others; for instance the pneumonia germ. 
Under no circumstances will they attack the pneumonia germ 
until the body has secreted a substance called opsonin. 
This opsonin serves either as a condiment on the pneumonia 
germ, to make it more palatable, or else as a stimulant to 
the fighting powers of the white blood cell, or perhaps both 
purposes. After the secretion of opsonin into the blood- 
stream, which occurs at or just before the so-called " crisis " 
of the disease, the white blood cells go out and furiously 
attack the pneumonia germs, clearing up the blood of these 
destroying agents within a very few hours, the patient break- 
ing out into a gentle perspiration, which is soon followed 
by calm sleep. 

The sick one has now passed the crisis and is on the road 
to recovery. How many who have observed such a phe- 
nomenon, have ever paused to consider what an important 
part was played by these tiny white blood cells these 
valiant little creatures which very aptly have been called 
" first aid " cells and the " standing army of the interior " ? 



12 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

They are the scavengers of the body, as well as the soldiers, 
as they clear up the refuse from the battlefield of life. 

THE WHITE CELLS IN OLD AGE 

When the white blood cells are compelled constantly to 
live in an irritating blood-stream filled with the poisons of 
narcotics, alcohol, and numerous other drugs, or when the 
blood-stream is surcharged with poisonous elements ab- 
sorbed from the bowel in chronic indigestion or constipation 
after years of such poisoning these policemen of the body 
become perverted in their instincts. They become, as it 
were, intoxicated, and instead of performing their custom- 
ary work of protecting the body against disease germs, 
they actually turn insurgent attack the body cells liter- 
ally devour the body itself, actually eat up some of the brain 
cells, kidney cells, etc.; and this, as Professor Metchnikoff 
has shown, contributes to the bringing on of a large number 
of the manifestations of old age. 

THE LYMPH CELLS 

The lymph cells resemble the larger white blood corpus- 
cles. They are sturdy little fighters in the battle against 
infection, having their residence in the lymph glands, the 
swelling of which indicates that that region of the body is 
beset by some of the many foes of life and health, and that 
Nature is enlarging her fortifications spreading out her 
works of defence to increase enormously the production of 
lymph cells. 

It is estimated that there are thirty thousand million red 
corpuscles in the blood and sixty million white cells. It 
requires three thousand blood corpuscles placed in a row 
to make one inch. 

The blood cells must constantly be renewed. The average 
length of life of 'many of the white blood corpuscles is less 
than twenty-four hours, owing to the hazardous nature of 
their calling in the defence of the body against disease. 
This necessitates a constant creation of blood cells to re- 



THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY 13 

cruit the depleted ranks of these body-defenders. It has 
been computed, therefore, that white and red blood cells are 
created as follows : 

i day, about 700,000,000 cells, 
i hour, about 30,000,000 cells. 
i minute, about 500,000 cells. 
I second, about 8,000 cells. 

NERVE CELLS 

The voluntary nervous system, having its headquarters in 
the brain, sends branches from the spinal cord to every 
part of the body. These living wires carry messages to and 
from the brain. (See Fig. 4.) 

The unit of the nervous system is called a neuron, consist- 
ing of a cell body usually having one large branch which 
carries messages away from the cell, while it has many 
smaller branches bringing impressions to the cell. Different 
nerve cells and their branches are never actually connected. 
They merely touch each other, so that the nerve paths from 
the feet to the brain are not really continuous, all impulses 
having to pass through a number of relay stations and over 
several different nerves. 

SYMPATHETIC NERVES 

The sympathetic nervous system the involuntary nerves 
do not enter the brain. They are found along either side 
of the spinal column, in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. 
They send branches to the nerves which go to the brain, 
and form a great mass of nerve matter called the solar plexus, 
or " abdominal brain," which has. much to do with the va- 
rious vital organs. 

There are thousands of living nerve wires passing to and 
from the nerve centres. A noted oculist estimates that there 
are one million fibres in the optic nerve the nerve of 
sight. The organ of Corti, the harp-like structure connected 
with the sense of hearing, contains twenty-six thousand 
cells in its pillars, while there are estimated to be twenty-four 



14 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

thousand fibres in the floor upon which the pillars rest. One 
scientist has estimated that there are over two thousand 
million nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. 

THE BODY A COMMONWEALTH 

The body is thus found to be a great commonwealth of 
living cells. The skeleton serves as the framework; the 
muscles and tendons are the machinery by which it is 
moved; the various connective tissues bind muscles and 
bones together; the fatty tissues fill in and round out the 
structure; the great blood and lymph systems are vital 
canals through which flow the streams of life, and by which 
the body rids itself of refuse having a marvellous liv- 
ing pump as its centre; the epithelium of the skin and 
mucous membranes constitutes a vast protective system of 
external covering and internal lining; the nervous systems 
one centring in the brain and the other in the abdomen, 
and both radiating to the uttermost parts of the body, in 
complete touch with every living cell carry instructions 
from the tiny workers to the great centres of intellect, which 
are all the while sending forth the orders of the mind cen- 
tres to these untold millions of microscopic workers, who 
are thereby enabled to carry forward their vital tasks in 
cooperation and coordination, with unity of purpose and 
action. 



CHAPTER III 
THE VITALIZING SUNLIGHT 

PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY OF SUNLIGHT. SUNSHINE THE FOUN- 
TAIN OF ENERGY. LlGHT A GERM DESTROYER. SUNLIGHT AND 
VITAL RESISTANCE. SUNSHINE AND THE HOME. SUNLIGHT 
AND CHILDREN. THE VALUE OF SUN-BATHS. SUNSTROKE AND 
HEATSTROKE. SUN ENERGY. RADIUM AND THORIUM. CHEM- 
ICAL ENERGY. 

LIGHT, heat, and electricity are interchangeable forms 
of energy. If heat vibrations are increased, they may 
become light, and likewise the light vibrations, if greatly 
increased, may be manifested as electricity. Light travels 
through space at the rate of one hundred and eighty-six 
thousand and four hundred miles a second. The sun is 
about ninety-two million miles from the earth, yet light can 
travel from the sun to our earth and back again in sixteen 
and a half minutes. It would require sound waves twenty- 
nine years to travel this distance. 

PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY OF SUNLIGHT 

The rate of oscillation of light rays determines the mani- 
festation of color. Light rays are visible when their oscil- 
lations vary from 477,000,000,000 per second red light 
running up through orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and 
violet, to 699,000,000,000 oscillations per second. Oscilla- 
tions below the limit of vision are recognized as heat, and 
those above constitute the ultra-violet rays, X-rays, etc., the 
borderland of electricity. 

Sunlight consists of three rays: 

1. Heat rays. 

2. Light rays. 

3. Chemical or actinic rays. 

15 



16 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

It is the action of the actinic rays on certain silver salts 
that produces the negative in photography or the sunburn of 
the skin, resulting from long exposure to the sunlight. 

A further and most important chemical effect of light is 
its action upon chlorophyl, the green coloring substance of 
plants and vegetables. Under the influence of sunlight, 
chlorophyl has power to take the poisonous carbonic acid 
gas (CO 2 ) of the air, the water of the ground, etc., and 
build them up into the food substances of starch, sugar, etc. 
During this process, the plant gives off oxygen, but this is 
true only while the sun is shining. At night or on cloudy 
days, plants give off no oxygen, but exhale poisonous car- 
bonic acid gas just the same as animals. Plants are there- 
fore healthful companions in the living room, but are in- 
jurious at night in the sleeping room. 

Light is analyzed by means of the spectroscope, which 
reduces the ray of light to its simple colors, and in this way 
astronomers study the great sun flames which sometimes 
shoot up seventy thousand miles high, thereby learning of 
the elements present in these solar explosions. 

What is color ? When all the primary colors of light are 
present in the ray, it appears white. When all are ab- 
sorbed by the surface on which it falls, the surface appears 
black. When only part of the colors in the white ray of light 
are absorbed by the reflecting surface, the same assumes the 
color of the unabsorbed rays. For instance, the so-called 
red barn is a structure whose paint-pigment absorbs all 
the colors of white light except red. The reflection of 
these unabsorbed red-colored rays back to the eye, produces 
the sensations of redness in eye and brain, and so we call 
the barn red. 

SUNSHINE THE FOUNTAIN OF ENERGY 

Sunshine is the source of all earthly energy. Whether 
used in the form of coal from the buried forests of the long 
ago, to warm our houses ; or as the fresh and growing vege- 
table of to-day, to nourish our bodies; it is the same radiant 



THE VITALIZING SUNLIGHT 17 

energy that we are utilizing the same vitalizing rays of 
sunshine. 

The green plants are energy-gatherers or food-builders, 
for man and the animal world. The animal body is 
an energy-consumer. Animals are dependent upon food 
for their heat and energy; therefore, directly or indi- 
rectly, man, in common with all animals, is dependent 
upon the vegetable kingdom to furnish him the necessary 
food from which he may derive the heat and energy requi- 
site to the maintenance of life and health. 

As previously noted, it is the green part of the plant, 
called chlorophyl, which under the influence of the sunlight 
is able to organize the dead minerals of earth and the life- 
less gases of the air into such wonderfully complex foods 
as starch, sugar, cellulose, etc., foods that are perfectly suited 
to the use of man and the animal world for purposes of 
heat and energy. 

LIGHT A GERM DESTROYER 

While sunshine is indispensable to the life and health of 
the human race and other higher forms of life, it is im- 
portant to know that this same wonderful and beneficent 
sunlight is almost instantaneously fatal to the vast majority 
of disease germs, and microorganisms which prey upon 
man and, in a thousand and one ways, constantly jeopardize 
his health and happiness. The same ray of sunlight which 
carries health and physical salvation to the waning consump- 
tive, is immediately fatal to the life of his great enemy 
the tiny tubercular bacillus the cause of the great " white 
plague." 

Since we know that about one-quarter of the population of 
civilized countries is afflicted with some form of tuberculosis, 
how urgent it is that human dwelling places, sleeping rooms, 
living rooms, working rooms, etc., in fact, all that pertains 
to the life of man, should be so arranged as to give free 
access to the glorious sunshine ! How important that intelli- 
gent human beings should utilize this wonderful agency of 



18 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Nature, coming as it does with its twofold benefaction pro- 
moting the health of the man and destroying the life of his 
most malignant foe the germ of consumption ! 

It is this disinfecting and germ-destroying power of sun- 
shine that has probably saved us from a universal scourge 
of tuberculosis that would otherwise have resulted from 
the careless spitting of consumptives in public places. While 
thousands of innocent men, women, and children, no doubt 
contract tuberculosis as the result of such carelessness, 
many thousands of others are undoubtedly saved by the 
efficient and constant action of sunlight in destroying un- 
told billions of these tubercular microbes. 

SUNLIGHT AND VITAL RESISTANCE 

The foremost of modern scientists agree perfectly with the 
teachings of the Old Book, which declares that man was 
made to live in a garden. Modern biologists are coming 
to look upon man as an out-door animal. Physicians are 
becoming more and more convinced that the maintenance 
of health and the recovery from disease are mightily in- 
fluenced by the number of hours an individual spends each 
day in the sunshine of the open air. All students of hy- 
giene recognize that the more mankind live out of doors, the 
better the health, the fewer the diseases from which they 
suffer, and the more quickly they recover from most bodily 
afflictions. 

Carefully compiled statistics show that the vital resistance 
of any family or group of families is in an exact inverse 
ratio to the number of years they have been away from the 
soil; that is, the longer you have been away from the farm 
from the outdoor life of fresh air and sunshine the 
more likely you are to contract disease, and the more diffi- 
cult will be your recovery. On the other hand, the shorter 
the time you have been away from the farm the outdoor 
life the more vital resistance you have, the less likely you 
are to contract disease, and the more quickly and surely 
you will recover from any accidental infection or other 
malady. 



THE VITALIZING SUNLIGHT 19 

SUNSHINE AND THE HOME 

In the development of the modern house, with all its con- 
veniences and splendid sanitary arrangements, altogether 
too little provision has been made for the admission of an 
adequate amount of sunlight. 

The march of science has delivered us from the innu- 
merable itches and skin diseases which were the scourge 
of the Middle Ages; the advent of the iron bedstead has 
doomed the bedbug; modern sanitary plumbing has delivered 
us from sewer gas and other kitchen filth; but the scien- 
tific conquest of foul air and darkness the problems of 
satisfactory illumination and proper ventilation remain 
for this or another generation to solve. 

The site of a human dwelling-place should be upon ele- 
vated ground with good natural or artificial drainage. It 
is imperative that the southern exposure should be unob- 
structed and that all living and bed rooms should be located 
on this side of the house, that they may be constantly 
flooded with the glorious sunlight. 

The growing fashion of bay windows should be encour- 
aged. The more the glass that enters into the construction 
of a dwelling-house, the better will be the health of its occu- 
pants, and the worse it will be for any disease germ that 
may chance to lurk therein. The glass house is not an 
improbable innovation of the future. A dwelling so con- 
structed could, by shifting blinds and rugs, be daily disin- 
fected and sterilized from the attic to the cellar, by flush- 
ing every square foot of space with the cleansing light of 
the sun. 

The practice of massing houses together side by side in 
our cities and villages, and of constructing flats, many of 
which admit sunlight to but a single room, is indeed per- 
nicious. One of the sanitary laws needed most at the 
present time is one compelling suitable space to be al- 
lowed on the southern exposure of every human dwelling- 
place to permit of proper illumination and daily solar ster- 
ilization. 



20 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

What a pity that the foundation of the house the en- 
closure of the cellar, that dark and prolific breeding ground 
for the microbes of disease should be so universally built 
without provision for ventilation or the admission of sun- 
light ! By attention to this matter, damp walls, which breed 
mould and microbes, would cease to exist. 

Let us hope that at some future day only a licensed ar- 
chitect will be permitted to draw the plans for our dwellings, 
and that, to secure such a license, he must demonstrate 
that he is thoroughly trained and competent in all these mat- 
ters of house-hygiene, which so vitally concern the life and 
health of the race. 

SUNLIGHT AND CHILDREN 

Who would think of trying to raise a plant without an 
abundance of sunlight? Yet how many fond but ignorant 
parents are endeavoring to rear their little ones with but a 
tithe of the sunshine which their health demands ! What 
if the sunlight does fade your carpets, your tapestries, and 
other precious fabrics? Would it not be better to have 
these lose some of their color, than to continue to see the 
once rosy cheeks of your darling babes fade increasingly? 
It is true the sunlight may dissipate the artificial colors of 
the still more artificial hangings of your living rooms, but 
what matter, so long as it restores the natural color the 
bloom of health to the pallid cheeks of the little ones? 
It is a crime against the rising generation to locate the nur- 
sery anywhere except on the sunny side of the house. 

THE VALUE OF SUN-BATHS 

This form of bath is taken by exposing the body if) the 
rays of the sun, while the head and back of the neck are 
protected by cloths wrung out of cold water or ice water. 
It is found to be very helpful in tuberculosis, anaemia, many 
forms of dyspepsia, and other chronic disorders. It should 
be begun gradually, exposing the body or a part of the body 
for only a few moments, and increasing the time little by 



THE VITALIZING SUNLIGHT 21 

little, from day to day, until the body may be exposed for 
ten or twenty minutes. 

SUNSTROKE AND HEATSTROKE 

It might be well in this connection to warn the reader 
against unduly exposing himself, particularly the head, to 
the direct rays of the sun during periods of extreme heat, 
as there is considerable danger of sunstroke, especially if 
he is not accustomed to high temperatures. However, the 
majority of sunstrokes are due to something else besides 
the heat. Old age, alcohol, th'e excessive use of narcotics, 
such as tobacco, a heavy meat diet during the summer, to- 
gether with mental worry or despondency, contribute largely 
to the mortality from sunstroke during periods of prolonged 
hot weather. 

Sunstroke must not be confused with heat exhaustion. 
In sunstroke the head is hot and the face flushed. All cloth- 
ing possible should be immediately removed. Allow abun- 
dance of fresh air. Apply cold cloths to the head. The 
body should be briskly rubbed with the end of a towel wrung 
out of cold water, or sprinkled with cold water, or put in a 
cold bath. Heat should be applied to the feet, and the pa- 
tient allowed to rest. 

Heat exhaustion occurs more largely among those work- 
ing in high temperatures indoors, as in rolling mills, iron 
foundries, etc. These sufferers should be given rest and 
fresh air. The skin of the body, and even the face, in such 
cases, is more likely to be found pale, or sometimes cool and 
clammy. A hot bath should be given, or a short hot blanket 
pack with cold to the head, followed by a gentle rubbing of 
the body. 

SUN ENERGY 

The infinite liberality characterizing the sun, as it lav- 
ishes energy and pours forth heat upon the earth, is amaz- 
ing. The writer has seen solar heaters in southern Califor- 
nia, which were so constructed as to furnish all the hot 
water required for domestic purposes. The energy exerted 



22 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

by the sunlight in evaporating and elevating an average 
rainfall on one square mile of ground, has been estimated 
at one hundred and eighty thousand horse-power. 

It is indeed marvellous the amount of energy which the 
plant world is able to store from the sunlight falling upon 
its green leaves. A single stalk of Indian corn is estimated 
to sweat as much as a human being, and that is equivalent to 
the giving off of about two ounces of water an hour. From 
this it has been computed that an acre of corn, in twenty- 
four hours, actually sweats sixty-two and a half barrels of 
water. 

One botanist estimates that a blade of corn in pushing 
its way up through the heavy clods to the fresh air and 
sunlight, frequently lifts a prodigious weight one hundred 
thousand times its own. After escaping from its dark, 
earthy prison, the tender little corn blade can scarcely bear 
up a weight only a few times its own. A single tiny root, 
in forcing its way through the earth, exerts a power equal 
to three hundred pounds pressure to the square inch. A 
single poplar tree exhales a barrel of water every day. A 
single pound of Indian corn contains sixteen hundred cal- 
ories, or units of energy enough to lift five million pounds 
one foot high, or one-half a ton one mile high. 

The writer knew of a tender mushroom plant which 
pushed its way up through several inches of concrete in 
the floor of a California warehouse. And so we constantly 
behold a panorama of infinite energy, whether we look at 
the smallest of the operations of Nature or gaze in wonder 
at the great astronomical system as it moves on majestically 
in its ceaseless march through space. 

RADIUM AND THORIUM 

The latest discovery of science, illustrative of the wonder- 
power of the natural world, is to be found in the new chem- 
ical substances, radium and thorium. Radium is the chem- 
ical wizard of the hour, baffling the skill of the chemist, 
overthrowing the laws of the physicist, apparently defying 
even the time-honored laws of the conservation of energy. 



THE VITALIZING SUNLIGHT 2$ 

This remarkable substance, itself apparently dead and cold, 
gives off both heat and light. It discharges small particles 
of matter which fly off at the rate of a hundred thousand 
miles a second, and yet Professor Becquerel has estimated 
that a room, having a ceiling twenty feet square, covered 
with radium for illuminating purposes, would lose, by this 
discharge of light and energy, only 2/100 of a grain of ra- 
dium in one thousand years. 

Thorium is a mysterious substance throwing off heat. 
Certain specimens exhibit the wonderful property of giving 
off heat for a certain number of hours, and when the heat 
is decreasing, if it is exposed to the sunlight, it will again 
give off heat. 

The X-ray is still a wonder to both scientist and layman. 
It is not only a great help in treating many diseases and an 
indispensable aid in surgical diagnosis, but also a very pow- 
erful agent of destruction when carelessly or ignorantly 
used. 

Recent experiments in an Eastern university have demon- 
strated that the human body is constantly giving off rays 
of light which will affect specially prepared photographic 
plates, so that a picture of the body has been taken in a per- 
fectly dark chamber, by the light of the body itself. 

CHEMICAL ENERGY 

Unlimited energy, infinite power, is constantly in oper- 
ation in our world. The world itself, weighing fifteen hun- 
dred billions of billions of tons, maintains its flight through 
space at nineteen miles a second. To impart such extraor- 
dinary velocity to a ten-pound cannon ball would require 
the explosion of eight hundred times its weight in powder 
about four tons. To start the earth moving at its pres- 
ent rate of speed would require the explosion of six hun- 
dred billions of billions of tons of gunpowder (600,000,000,- 
000,000,000,000), to say nothing of the constant expenditure 
of energy required to maintain our planet in its endless 
flight through space, never losing a fraction of a second. 

Professor Tyndall has computed that an ordinary snow- 



24 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ball, weighing half a pound, contains sufficient energy in 
the form of such latent heat as would be liberated in the 
melting of the snowball and the conversion of its water into 
steam to project its own weight through space a distance 
of two hundred and seventy miles, about as far as from 
Chicago to St. Louis. He further estimates that the amount 
of chemical energy required to hold the atoms of hydrogen 
and oxygen together in this snowball, represents sufficient 
power to hurl its weight of half a pound half way across 
the American continent. Water expands just before freez- 
ing, and if a strong iron pipe be filled with water, the ends 
closed, and the water allowed to freeze, it will be rent 
asunder. 



CHAPTER IV 

NATURAL BREATHING, OR THE VITALIZED LIFE 

ANATOMY OF THE RESPIRATORY APPARATUS. THE PHYSIOLOGY OP 
BREATHING. THE HUMAN VOICE. PURE AIR NATURE'S TONIC. 
BLOOD PURIFIERS. THE BLESSINGS OF DEEP BREATHING. CELL 
RESPIRATION. BREATHING AND DIGESTION. DEEP BREATHING 

AND THE BLUES. NlGHT AIR. 

THE nose is the external organ of respiration. Air en- 
tering the nostril must pass through a strainer com- 
posed of projecting hairs, and then over the three turbinate 
bones, all of which lodge particles of atmospheric dust. 
The mucous membrane covering these turbinate bones and 
lining the nasal cavity is richly supplied with blood-vessels, 
by which means the cold air is warmed. 

ANATOMY OF THE RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 

Back of the nose the air enters the pharynx, where it is 
further warmed, and by suction it is directed downward, 
passing through the larynx or voice-box, over the relaxed 
vocal cords, into the trachea or windpipe. This part of the 
breathing tract is lined with epithelium, which is provided 
with cilia whose rhythmic, waving motion constantly sweeps 
upward and outward, thus protecting the lungs from the 
dust and dirt which may enter the windpipe along with the 
air. 

The windpipe subdivides into numerous branches, some 
going to the right lung, others to the left, where they are 
further divided into the bronchi or breathing tubes. (See 
Fig- 5-) The pulmonary artery carries the impure blood 
from the right side of the heart to the lungs to be purified; 
the pulmonary vein brings back the aerated blood to the 
left side of the heart, to be pumped all over the body. The 



26 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

lung substance itself is nourished by a system of bronchial 
arteries coming from the general circulation. 

The bronchi of the lungs continue to divide into branches 
after the manner of a tree, until each little branch termi- 
nates in an air sac. These air chambers are very thin, as 
also are the surrounding blood-vessels, so that the exchange 
of the CO 2 of the blood with the oxygen in the ail sacs, 
readily takes place in the bodies of the red blood corpuscles. 
(See Fig. 5.) 

There are certain muscles of the chest and those be- 
tween the ribs, which assist in breathing, especially in 
forced or labored breathing, but the real muscles of res- 
piration are those of the abdomen more particularly the 
diaphragm, which is the muscle serving as a partition be- 
tween the chest and the abdomen. It is the downward 
movement of the diaphragm, accompanied by an outward 
movement of the abdominal muscles, which produces the 
lowered air pressure or partial vacuum in the lungs, causing 
an inrush of air through the nostrils. When the abdomi- 
nal muscles contract and the diaphragm moves up, then the 
lungs are emptied. 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF BREATHING 

The process of respiration is divided into two stages: 

1. External respiration the interchange of gases be- 
tween the air in the lungs and the blood circulating through 
the lungs. 

2. Internal breathing or cell respiration the inter- 
change of gases between the individual cells of the body 
and the blood corpuscles circulating about them. 

The lungs are inclosed in an air-tight box the thorax. 
The same pleura which covers the outside of the lungs is 
reflected over on either side and entirely covers the inside 
of the chest. It is the inflammation of this pleura which ' 
produces the condition commonly known as " pleurisy." 

When the lungs are pressed upon from below by the 
diaphragm, the pressure in the lung is greater than that 



BRONCHUS 




FIG. 5r TheLun^sand Terminal Bronchiole 



NATURAL BREATHING 27 

of the atmosphere, and so the air moves out. Likewise, 
when the diaphragm moves down, air pressure in the lung 
is less than that of the air outside, so the air rushes in. 
This constitutes breathing, or the ventilation of the lungs, 
and is accomplished by the same physical principles that 
are used in the ventilation of a dwelling. Respiration is 
entirely under the control of the nervous system. 

In natural breathing, the chest and abdomen should ex- 
pand in all their diameters. Exclusive chest breathing or 
exclusive abdominal breathing is wrong; both the chest 
and the abdomen should work together. (See Fig. 6.) 

Men, as a rule, breathe after the abdominal type. Civil- 
ized women, owing to their mode of dress, employ chest 
breathing. (See Fig. 6.) This is entirely due to their 
constricted waists, for uncivilized women employ the ab- 
dominal or natural method of breathing just the same as 
men. Even in civilized countries, little girls breathe the 
same as their small brothers. 

The normal rate of breathing for an adult is fifteen to 
twenty times a minute. In the new-born child, it is fifty 
to seventy. The breathing rate is a little higher in women 
than in men. 

In ordinary breathing we take in about five hundred cubic 
centimetres of air at a time; that is, about twenty-five 
pounds in twenty- four hours. By taking a very deep breath, 
about two thousand cubic centimetres more air can be 
forced into the lungs. When we do our best to empty the 
lungs, there still remains about seven hundred cubic centi- 
metres of air in them. 

Breathing is modified by disease increased in fever 
and in inflammatory diseases of the lungs. Coughing is 
an abrupt expiration with the mouth open. Sneezing is a 
violent expiration, the air passing out chiefly through the 
nose. Yawning is a prolonged inspiration indicative of 
mental or physical weariness. A sigh is a long-drawn in- 
spiration, followed by deep expiration; while the hiccough is 
due to a sudden spasm of the diaphragm, producing a quick 
inspiration. 



28 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

In testing the lungs, there are two important things to 
ascertain : 

1. The capacity. 

2. The strength. 

The capacity of the lungs is tested by means of the 
spirometer, and naturally varies according to the size and 
height of the individual. Average lung capacities in ref- 
erence to height are about as follows: 

Height Lung Capacity 

5 Ft. 180 Cu. In. 

5 " 2 In 185 " " 

5 " 4 " 190 " " 

5 " 6 " 195 " '" 

5 " 8 " 205 " " 

5 " 10 " 215 " " 

6 " 230 " " 

The strength of the lungs is measured by blowing through 
a tube against a column of mercury, and the average man 
or woman is found to possess a strength varying from one 
to two pounds of mercury. 

THE HUMAN VOICE 

The voice-box is the larynx; stretched across it, under 
the control of various muscles, are the true and false chords. 
Sound is produced by air which, in passing over these 
chords, sets them in vibration. The pitch is determined by 
the tension of the chords and is also influenced by the 
strength of the air blast. Speech is simply the articulated 
voice, produced largely by the varied positions of the lips. 
A whisper is really speech without voice. 

PURE AIR NATURE'S TONIC 

The real value of the outdoor life is largely dependent 
upon the character of the breathing while one is in the 
open air. It will be just as useless to go out of doors in 
the fresh, pure air without indulging in full, deep breath- 
ing, as it will to go into the pantry when hungry and re- 



Chest Breathing 
(WRONG; 



/V<? tuns I Breathincj 
(RIGHT; 



Fl G . 6 . - / J/usf-raf/'mj Rig ht and Wrong JBreathincj . 



NATURAL BREATHING 29 

fuse to eat. The value of the outdoor life is entirely de- 
pendent upon the proper exercise of the lungs in natural 
respiration. 

One of my patients looked at me in great astonishment 
when, after she had asked for a tonic, I directed her to go 
out into the open air five times a day and fill her lungs to 
their fullest capacity one hundred times, while rising upon 
her toes and lifting the arms sidewise with each inspiration, 
settling back on the heels and letting the arms fall with 
each expiration. (See Fig. 7.) This patient was told 
that oxygen was the divine tonic and that the proper way 
to take such medicine was to systematically practise deep 
breathing. Nature has prescribed two lungs full of good 
fresh air every three seconds. If this wise prescription is 
not properly taken moment by moment, the only way such 
negligence can be atoned for is to go out into the open air 
several times a day and make it a special business to ven- 
tilate the lungs thoroughly by engaging in deep-breathing 
exercises for several minutes. 

BLOOD PURIFIERS 

The lungs are Nature's blood purifiers. It is a mistaken 
notion that some medicine can be taken into the stomach 
at springtime which will purify the blood. These so-called 
" spring tonics " or " blood purifiers " are a snare and a de- 
lusion. They consist largely of alcohol and other stimu- 
lating drugs which cause those who take them to feel bet- 
ter for the time being, but in reality leave them worse off 
than they were before taking the medicine. One of the 
curses of our present-day civilization is the willingness 
with which intelligent people will swallow bottle after 
bottle of pernicious secret nostrums. 

We purify the blood by eating pure food and drinking 
pure water. The solid and liquid impurities of the blood 
are acted upon by the liver and expelled by the skin and 
kidneys, while the gaseous poisons of the blood-stream are 
removed from the body through the lungs. Daily sweating 
also tends to keep the blood pure. Full, deep breathing has 



30 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

restored to health and activity many a semi-invalid who 
supposed himself to be suffering from thick and impure 
blood and a host of other ills. 

As will be shown later, the diaphragmatic method of 
breathing is the natural one. Some vocal teachers instruct 
their pupils to breathe with the abdominal muscles; others 
teach intercostal breathing. The proper and physiological 
method employs both, the point of greatest expansion cor- 
responding with the diaphragm. By this method the lungs 
are more fully ventilated, the air is more completely 
changed, the chest is developed, the abdominal muscles 
strengthened, and the health and strength of all the internal 
organs promoted. 

THE BLESSINGS OF DEEP BREATHING 

Shallow breathers are usually downcast and despondent. 
I have yet to find a man or woman who is a systematic 
deep breather, suffering much from melancholia or de- 
spondency. On the other hand, I have observed that prac- 
tically all despondent, downcast, and discouraged people 
are shallow breathers. The less deeply you breathe, the 
more you will worry. The more deeply you breathe, the 
less you will worry. Shallow breathing favors the ac- 
cumulation of poisonous gases in the blood and the stag- 
nation of blood in the internal organs. These poisonous 
substances accumulating in the blood-stream becloud the 
mind, producing a state of mental and physical health which 
greatly increases the moral struggle. That is, impure air 
or insufficient breathing makes it much harder for one to 
live a happy, tranquil, and even-tempered life. 

The brain action is very greatly heightened by deep 
breathing. Deep breathers are more likely to be deep think- 
ers, while shallow breathers are condemned to inevitable 
shallow thinking. The action of the lungs has much to do 
with the circulation of the blood, especially in the head 
and abdomen. To convince yourself that this is a fact, try 
the following experiment: When you are all tired out, 
dull and sleepy and unable to read, put down your book for 




Starting Positior. 




Breathing In 



Bre.athinjj In 




JSreafhing Out 



FIG. 7.- Methtnt of -taking special' breathing Exercises 



NATURAL BREATHING 31 

a moment, stand up before an open window and slowly fill 
the lungs to their fullest capacity twenty-five times. On 
again taking up your book to read, you will discover a new 
lease of mental energy the powers of attention have been 
awakened. 

Deep breathing facilitates the purification of the blood as 
it circulates through the lungs. It also quickens the cir- 
culation of the blood throughout the body. Many cases of 
chronic cold hands and feet are greatly helped by syste- 
matic, deep breathing. 

Some one has called the blood the " vital water that turns 
the wheels of life." The blood should contain by weight 
more of oxygen than it does of digested food, as the food is 
useless for heat and energy, unless this wonderful gas is 
present to oxidize it. 

CELL RESPIRATION 

The human body is made up of countless millions of lit- 
tle cells, each an individual, carrying on some special work. 
In order to do their work properly, these little cell-beings 
must eat and drink and breathe. If we neglect to take 
food and water into the stomach, these tiny workers would 
be starved and famished. Likewise, if we fail to breathe 
properly, as most of us habitually do, these little cells of 
the body are in turn partially or wholly suffocated lit- 
erally smothered. It is just this condition of some or all 
of the cells of the body which is responsible for much of 
the run-down, debilitated, waking-up-tired-in-the-morning 
feeling, from which so many shallow breathers habitually 
suffer. Fresh air is absolutely essential to the welfare 
and the work of every little cell-citizen belonging to the 
commonwealth of the living body. 

Oxygen is absolutely indispensable to the life of the cells 
of the body. We are able to go for days without eating and 
drinking, but we can go but a few moments without breath- 
ing. In fact, it is necessary for each of us to take from fif- 
teen to twenty " air lunches " a minute in order to keep the 
body properly fed with oxygen that great liberator of the 



32 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

energy contained within our food the great energizer of 
every living cell and quivering tissue. 

BREATHING AND DIGESTION 

Deep breathing aids digestion, promotes the action of the 
liver, and helps the stomach in emptying itself. Patients 
with weak, debilitated stomachs are greatly helped by deep- 
breathing exercises. Many cases of "heavy feeling" in 
the stomach following meals can be relieved within ten or 
fifteen minutes by deep, diaphragmatic breathing in the 
open air. Both the stomach and the liver lie directly under 
the diaphragm, and are greatly aided in their action by 
deep, full respiration. 

Natural diaphragmatic breathing is also a great aid to 
normal action of the bowels. It is a wonderful preventive 
of constipation and, in a measure, a cure for this obstinate 
malady. It is estimated that the diaphragm exerts a pres- 
sure of about two hundred pounds in normal deep breath- 
ing. In the case of one who breathes correctly, this pres- 
sure is being exerted upon the internal organs every few 
seconds day and night. It is natural that the bowels should 
have this pressure exerted upon them, and its absence largely 
contributes to intestinal sluggishness or constipation, from 
which shallow breathers almost universally suffer. 

DEEP BREATHING AND THE BLUES 

Deep breathing stimulates the circulation of the blood in 
the portal vessels of the abdominal cavity. The liver is 
the filter of the body, and the blood-vessels connected with 
it constitute the special filter system of the circulation, 
which gathers up the blood from the various digestive or- 
gans, including the bowels, carrying it to the liver for in- 
spection and filtration before it is emptied into the general 
circulation. All women with flabby abdominal muscles, and 
most men of sedentary habits, suffer from portal conges- 
tion. This portal congestion is so severe in many cases 
and the blood is so stagnant and poisonous, that the white 



NATURAL BREATHING 33 

blood cells, whose great work is to devour the disease germs 
which invade the body, become so intoxicated and poisoned 
by this stagnant blood that they turn traitor and devour 
their cousins the red blood cells in enormous quanti- 
ties. In this way many forms of mild anaemia and other 
conditions of debility and malnutrition are probably pro- 
duced. 

This health-destroying portal congestion, together with 
various forms of headache, constipation, backache, and 
many other unpleasant symptoms, may be greatly helped or 
entirely removed by habitual, deep diaphragmatic breath- 
ing, which constantly flushes the portal circulation, pre- 
venting stagnation of blood therein. Dr. Abrams has long 
since called attention to the fact that the physical and 
mental condition known as the " blues " owes its origin 
largely to portal congestion and the subsequent derange- 
ment of the abdominal brain and the sympathetic nervous 
system. 

The flat chest indicates not only improper breathing, but 
a predisposition to lung diseases as well, and advertises the 
fact to the world that its owner has a body half nourished, 
half suffocated, and therefore prepared to do only one-half 
a man's work and bear only half a man's responsibility in 
the world. Many forms of spinal curvature also result 
from deficient breathing and subsequent weakening of all 
the muscles connected with respiration and involved in the 
support of the spinal column. 

NIGHT AIR 

Don't be afraid of the night air. Night air differs from 
day air only in that it is usually cooler and one therefore 
needs to provide more clothing for the body after sunset. 
Night air is just as wholesome as day air, and in some re- 
spects it is even more pure. There are no such things as 
" miasmas " or other poisonous substances which pervade 
the air at night. This is a superstition of the last century 
long since disproved by science. Malaria is not caught 
from a " miasma/' but from a certain variety of mosquito 

3 



34 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

that has a malarial parasite in its salivary glands when it 
bites you. You protect yourself from malaria at night 
the time when these mosquitoes go forth on their deadly 
mission not by shutting out the air, but by carefully 
screening your windows to keep out these mosquito pests, 
while you freely admit the pure, fresh air of heaven. 

Children, old people, and invalids, should be carefully 
dressed during cold weather, that they may not become 
chilled during sleep. Babies should wear some sort of 
Bleeping jackets to protect their arms and legs. 



CHAPTER V 

MUSCULAR EXERCISE, OR THE ACTIVE LIFE 

STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION OF MUSCLES. VOLUNTARY MUSCLES. 
INVOLUNTARY MUSCLES. MAN A WORKING MACHINE. How 

TO REFORM A CHAIR. PROPER STANDING POSITION. SYSTEMATIC 
AND SYMMETRIC EXERCISE. REQUIRED DAILY EXERCISE. AGREE- 
ABLE EXERCISE. EXERCISE AND DIGESTION. EXERCISE AND THE 
CIRCULATION. EXERCISE AND RESPIRATION. EXERCISE AND THE 
MIND. EXERCISE DANGERS. 

THE bones and muscles of the human body are joined 
together in a wonderful fashion, producing an organ- 
ization of marvellous mechanical possibilities and repre- 
senting almost every known principle of leverage. The 
human body is the most economical working machine in 
the world; that is, it can do more work on less fuel than 
any engine in existence. 

STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION OF MUSCLES 

The ability of the body to engage in exercise and per- 
form various kinds of work is due to the wonderful prop- 
erty of contraction possessed by muscular tissues, which 
are divided into two classes : voluntary and involuntary. 

Voluntary muscles. Voluntary muscles present a striped 
appearance when viewed under the microscope, and con- 
stitute about half the bulk of the body. Muscles of this 
order are supplied by branches of nerves which are given 
off from the spinal column and are, therefore, caused to 
contract by impulses which originate in the brain. About 
six hundred of these voluntary muscles are sufficiently large 
to have been named. What is commonly known as a 
muscle is in reality a bundle of hundreds or thousands 
of little individual muscle fibres, and the muscle as a 

:35 



36 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

whole contracts when all these little fibres contract. These 
fibres are gathered together at the ends and attached to 
the tendon, which, in turn, is attached to the bone. All 
our voluntary movements, such as talking, chewing, walk- 
ing, and various forms of working and muscular exer- 
cise, are performed by the action of this system of voluntary 
muscles. 

Involuntary muscles. The involuntary muscles are not 
found in such large bundles as the voluntary. They are quite 
generally distributed throughout the body, but are found 
chiefly in the internal organs, the blood-vessels, the stomach 
and intestines. Every little hair root has a muscle, the con- 
traction of which causes it to stand up straight. Goose 
flesh is caused by contraction of these muscle fibres. 
Viewed under the microscope, the involuntary muscle fibre 
does not present a striped appearance, hence they are some- 
times called smooth muscle fibres. The involuntary muscles 
are only indirectly controlled by nerves branching out from 
the brain and spinal cord. They are directly controlled by 
the so-called sympathetic nervous system a system of 
nerves entirely different from that of the brain and spinal 
cord, having its chief centres in the chest, abdomen, and 
pelvis. By means of this arrangement it is possible for us 
to sleep, during which time all our voluntary muscles are 
at rest because the brain and spinal cord are at rest; but 
the sympathetic nervous system never sleeps, and this ex- 
plains how the stomach, intestines, heart, blood-vessels, 
lungs, kidneys, and liver, all keep up their vital work 
upon which life itself depends while the man himself is 
enwrapped in slumber. 

Muscles are not merely mechanical instruments of energy, 
but are also storehouses of power. A great deal of the 
heat by which the body is kept warm during cold weather 
originates in the muscles. This is the explanation of shiv- 
ering and chattering of the teeth when one has been sub- 
jected to prolonged chilling. Muscular exercise increases 
bodily heat; therefore, when the body is chilled to the 
point of danger and its owner does not know enough to 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 37 

engage in physical exercise for the production of heat, Na- 
ture produces involuntary exercise in the form of shiver- 
ing which might be regarded as a sort of lazy man's ex- 
ercise. This is exactly why patients with malarial fever 
chill. The malaria parasites produce a refrigerating poison 
which lowers the body temperature. Nature produces a 
chill to counteract this influence. She frequently overdoes 
the work, not merely counteracting the cold, but actually 
producing a fever. (The fever aids in preventing the de- 
velopment of the parasites.) 

Muscles can be made to contract by electricity. Indeed, 
it is by means of various forms of electricity that diseases 
of the nerves supplying the muscles may be diagnosed. 
Muscles contain a substance which scientists have named 
oxidase. It is a digestive ferment which has power to oxi- 
dize; that is, to burn up the sugar which nature stores in 
the muscles for this purpose. During contraction muscle 
tissues are actually destroyed. A too rapid destruction of 
muscle permits the accumulation of various acids and other 
poisons resulting from tissue waste, and this gives rise to 
the local muscle soreness experienced after undue exercise; 
and also to the general sensation of fatigue, which is due to 
the circulation of these muscle poisons in the blood. 

MAN A WORKING MACHINE 

The human body, embracing its bony skeleton, muscles, 
tendons, ligaments, etc., constitutes the ideal energy en- 
gine. As previously noticed, the human body can perform 
more work with given energy than any machine ever de- 
vised. The combined strength of all the groups of muscles 
in the body is equal to lifting about six thousand pounds. 
One-half of this strength is in the legs, one-quarter in the 
arms, and one-quarter in the trunk. The human body is a 
great system of complex mechanical leverage, and at any 
and every point of inspection exhibits abundant evidence 
that man was made to work. 

The study of anatomy shows the recumbent posture to be 
the proper one for physical rest. Anatomists tell us that 



38 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

man was never made to sit down. It is evident that man 
was made to stand up while working and to lie down while 
resting. There is little or no anatomical provision for the 
sitting posture ; indeed, it is altogether possible that the sit- 
ting habit which has been acquired by civilized races, is di- 
rectly or indirectly responsible for a vast amount of deformity 
and disease, including weak lungs, spinal curvature, consti- 
pation, hemorrhoids, and various pelvic disorders. 

HOW TO REFORM A CHAIR 

There are numerous physical conditions which might be 
very properly termed " chair diseases " flat chests, weak 
and crooked backs, flabby abdominal muscles, etc., with 
their consequent train of pains and other symptoms. This 
chair difficulty owes its origin to the fact that all ordinary 
chairs are straight-backed, while God made man's back with 
a curve in it; therefore, when man sits in a chair of his 
own devising, his back assumes an unnatural posture, 
that is, it straightens out loses all its natural curve. 
(See Fig. 8.) What are the results of destroying this 
natural curve of the spine? 

1. The chest flattens, breathing is decreased, the lungs 
are weakened and predisposed to the various diseases which 
attack them. 

2. The spinal muscles are relaxed. They are no longer 
needed to hold the backbone in its curved position, as the 
back is resting peacefully against the back of the chair. 
These muscles are, therefore, weakened, and as a result, the 
bones of the spine are easily misplaced producing spinal 
curvature. 

3. The moment the chest is depressed and the spine 
is straightened, the natural rotund curve of the abdomen 
disappears, the abdominal walls sink in, the tension is re- 
leased, pressure upon the internal organs disappears; and 
this permit* congestion of these organs, resulting in con- 
stipation and many other serious maladies. 

4. This continued weakening of the abdominal walls per- 
mits of a tumbling down of the internal organs and is fre- 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 39 

quently attended, especially in the case of women, by seri- 
ous consequences in the nature of pelvic displacements, 
etc. 

We cannot eliminate the chair from our modern civil- 
ization, but, with the foregoing presentation of the dele- 
terious effects of sitting, it is evident that some way must 
be found by which the chair can be reformed, and, if possi- 
ble, some of its undesirable tendencies toward disease and 
deformity eliminated. It is specially necessary to provide 
some sort of corrective chair for those who suffer from 
weak backs and abdomens. 

The first principle of this reform is the modification of 
the back of the chair so as to enable the body to relax and 
rest its tired muscles, at the same time preserving the nat- 
ural curve of the spine. Dr. Kellogg has suggested that 
this be done by hanging a cushion about six or eight inches 
long, four or five inches wide, and one or two inches thick, 
over the back of the chair not to rest the head upon, as 
is commonly the practice, but to extend down the back of 
the chair to the region of the small of the back. (See Fig. 
9.) This pad will maintain the proper curve of the spine, 
the chest will remain out in proper position, the abdominal 
walls will remain firm and tense, the breathing will be 
normal and natural, the spinal muscles will be rested, but 
not relaxed to the point of producing permanent weakness. 
Our chair would, indeed, seem to be reformed, were it not 
for one unfortunate fact. When the muscles of the trunk 
are relaxed with this support at the back, the body moves 
forward on the seat of the chair, and the whole effect is 
spoiled. Fortunately, there is a way in which this can 
easily be remedied. The seat of the chair can be made to 
incline backward by putting blocks one or two inches high 
under the front legs, or, preferably, by sawing one or two 
inches off the hind legs. (See illustration of reformed 
chair, Fig. 9.) 

In this simple way an ideal chair for correcting muscular 
weakness and properly resting the body can be made out 
of any ordinary household chair. It is not necessary, as a 



40 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

rule, to disturb the legs of rocking chairs. The mere 
placing of the pad in proper position will suffice, as the 
rocking chair permits of backward tilting; but it is made a 
little more comfortable in connection with this reform 
process, if its back legs are shortened a little on the rock- 
ers. 

PROPER STANDING POSITION 

Round shoulders and flat chests are largely due to im- 
proper sitting and standing. Instead of admonishing the 
young man to throw his shoulders back, it would be better 
to exhort him to throw his chest forward. Athletes and 
farmers, as well as sedentary men and students, are round- 
shouldered. This is due to their faulty attitude while en- 
gaged in work or play. 

The proper standing position may be secured as follows: 
(See Fig 10.) 

1. Stand with back to the wall preferably where there 
is no baseboard. Heels, hips, back, shoulders and head, 
should all touch the wall. (Fig. 10 a.) 

2. Keep the heels and hips against the wall, bend the 
head backward as far as possible, so that the face looks up 
at the ceiling, still keeping the head in touch with the wall 
meanwhile pushing the chest and shoulders forward. 
(Fig. 10 b.) 

3. Maintaining the chest in the new forward position, 
draw the head forward and the chin downward until the 
head is properly poised on the chest looking straight 
ahead. If the hips and heels now touch the wall, the body 
is in just about the natural standing position. (Fig. 10 c.) 

Bear in mind that both lungs and muscles are weakened 
by careless and relaxed sitting postures " lying down 
while sitting up." The correct sitting position is shown in 
Fig. 10 d. 

In this connection attention should be called to the un- 
natural position of the bicycle " scorcher " an attitude 
in every way calculated to do the greatest amount of harm 
and yield the least amount of good, from the otherwise 
healthful exercise of wheeling. 





D. - Correct 5/ftinij Poiif/on 



FIG 10- Haw to secure proper 3tand/nJ and siltmcj positions 



'MUSCULAR EXERCISE 41 

SYSTEMATIC AND SYMMETRIC EXERCISE 

Physical exercise should be systematic and symmetric 
not spasmodic and excessive. Man should cultivate his 
mental and moral faculties, as well as develop his physical 
powers. All his time and energy should not be spent in 
oiling the machine exercising the physical body. Part of 
his time and energy should be devoted to mental and moral 
culture, a sufficient amount of physical exercise being taken 
to earn one's living and to keep the body in healthy working 
order. 

Regular, light, and, preferably, useful exercise is much 
superior to irregular and excessive athletics. No doubt 
much physical good has come from our modern school ath- 
letics, yet every physician is compelled to recognize many 
undesirable results from excessive exercise and over-physi- 
cal training, chief of which is the so-called " athletic heart," 
which often appears several years after the discontinuance 
of extraordinary physical activity on the part of college 
athletes. 

It is much better for the health to train and develop the 
heart and other muscles reasonably, than to over-train these 
organs when young, and be compelled to discontinue these 
active exercises in middle life. There is great danger of 
fatty degeneration of the heart and other muscles. 

REQUIRED DAILY EXERCISE 

The amount of daily exercise required has been the sub- 
ject of much discussion in scientific circles. It is impossi- 
ble to offer definite rules. Everything depends upon the in- 
dividual, his strength, the condition of his muscles, etc. It 
is the writer's opinion that for the average healthy man or 
woman, the daily amount of exercise which would keep 
the body strong and healthy is represented by a five or six- 
mile walk in the open air arms swinging, chest well ex- 
panded, abdominal muscles rotund, the spinal curve well 
maintained in fact, the whole body thoroughly energized. 
It must be remembered that this represents the sum total 



42 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

of exercise for one day. Now, if one does housework, 
walks to and from the office, climbs stairs, or engages in 
any other line of work calling into use various muscles of 
the body this work must be subtracted from the six-mile 
walk. This walk is suggested as representing an agreeable 
form in which daily physical exercise may be profitably 
taken by ordinary individuals in good health. 

Walking on a level surface at the rate of three miles an 
hour represents an amount of physical work equal to lift- 
ing one-twentieth of the body-weight through the distance 
walked; that is, a man weighing one hundred and fifty 
pounds, walking six miles, has done physical work equiva- 
lent to transporting seven and one-half pounds over the 
distance walked six miles. 

The average workingman day laborer is estimated 
to do an amount of work equivalent to lifting nine hundred 
tons one foot high each day. This is equal to walking a 
distance of thirty-eight miles, or winding nineteen miles up 
the side of a mountain 5,000 feet high. 

Stair-climbing can be made to serve the place of moun- 
tain-climbing. In order to perform the exercise of lifting 
one hundred and fifty tons one foot high (the daily re- 
quired exercise for the average healthy person equiva- 
lent to walking six miles), it would be necessary to go up 
and down an ordinary flight of stairs one hundred and fifty 
times during the day. 

A good form of indoor exercise is " running in place " 
such as taught at the gymnasiums. " Heel raising " is an- 
other good form of exercise. Rising on the toes (raising 
heel two inches each time) fifteen hundred times is equal 
to walking one mile, or (in case of person weighing two 
hundred pounds) lifting twenty-five tons one foot high. 

AGREEABLE EXERCISE 

There is no doubt that physical exercise is more bene- 
ficial when it is pleasant and enjoyable. This is true of all 
bodily exertion, whether it be the play of the child or the 
work of the adult. The more one puts his mind into his 



'MUSCULAR EXERCISE 43 

physical exercise the more he himself enters into his 
bodily activity the greater the beneficial results to both 
mind and body, and the less the unpleasant consequences of 
fatigue, weariness, and depression. It would, therefore, ap- 
pear that the ideal exercise from the standpoint of health 
and utility would be useful work which is at the same time 
pleasant and agreeable. It is, indeed, a blessed state for 
one to have reached the point where he can sincerely say, 
" I like my job." 

While we recognize the value, from the standpoint of 
light physical culture, of Delsarte and calisthenics (em- 
bracing Indian clubs, dumb-bells, wands, etc.), at the same 
time we are compelled to classify such exercises as be- 
longing to those bodily activities adapted to semi-invalids, 
or as belonging to that class of movements calculated to 
develop grace, harmony, and coordination, rather than 
belonging to exercise suitable for healthy muscular develop- 
ment. We would not be understood as in any way decry- 
ing these calisthenic exercises. They are all right in their 
place certainly harmless at all times, and have some small 
exercise value; but they do not belong to the class of real 
body-developing and health-promoting activities such as 
walking, running, rowing, tennis, and the occupation exer- 
cises as found in housework and the various trades. These 
calisthenics, however, are beautifully adapted to weak in- 
valids and debilitated girls, and are useful as beginning ex- 
ercises for a large number of people whose bodies are weak 
from disease or disuse. 

In physical development it is the heavy movements that 
count. Various forms of apparatus and other gymnastic 
work are good, but the average individual will not take 
time to patronize a gymnasium regularly. However, such 
persons can profitably engage in systematic exercise along 
the line of the various systems of so-called " self-resistive 
movements." These systems of exercise are based upon 
the principle of exercising one group of muscles by means 
of resistance on the part of its opposing group; namely, to 
flex the arm slowly and energetically while a>. the same 



44 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

time causing the extensor group of muscles powerfully to 
resist the flexor group, and then to reverse the exercise 
extend the arm while the flexors strongly resist, all the 
while strongly imagining you are really lifting an enormous 
weight. This form of exercise is not only beneficial but 
economical, in that both groups of muscles are acting at 
the same time. The muscles are pulling against each other 
instead of pulling against dead weights. 

Exercise, to accomplish its purpose, must be carried on 
each day to the point of perspiration. A daily sweat, as well 
as the daily prayer, is good for the religion. The Good, 
Book prescribes that man should earn his bread by the 
sweat of his face. Please note that it does not use the 
poetic expression " sweat of his brow." The brow sweats 
very easily, but one has to work a little longer to get the 
whole face to sweat. 

EXERCISE AND DIGESTION 

Daily exercise in the open air sharpens the appetite, 
quickens the digestion, and very greatly promotes the as- 
similation and subsequent oxidation of the food. In fact, 
systematic bodily exercise is absolutely essential to the 
maintenance of good digestion and the proper circulation 
of the blood. Dyspepsia and despondency are the hand- 
maidens of physical idleness. Good digestion, all things be- 
ing equal, is the happy portion of nearly all who work 
and toil with their hands or use their bodies in some form 
of physical exertion. Outside of the realm of diet, no 
other physical practice so greatly influences bodily nutrition 
as physical exercise. 

All forms of physical exercise which produce trunk bend- 
ing, including walking, are invaluable in the prevention and 
cure of constipation. These forms of exercise promote reg' 
ular, normal movements of the intestinal tract. Constipa- 
tion is becoming one of the curses of our present-day civ- 
ilization, and it is due not only to superficial and wrong 
methods of breathing, resulting in abdominal congestion, 
with its consequent train of headache and depression, but 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 45 

also to increasing physical inactivity, which comes to us as 
a legacy of modern inventive ingenuity. 

EXERCISE AND THE CIRCULATION 

Cold hands and feet are the earmarks pathological tell- 
tales of the sedentary life. By contraction and expan- 
sion, the muscles directly influence the circulation of the 
blood, and therefore perfect circulation demands daily ex- 
ercise of the muscles. Exercise increases the force and 
frequency of the heart-beat. Excessive, over-violent ex- 
ercise may dilate the heart, and is always dangerous in 
weakened, aged or obese individuals, or those with hard 
arteries and weak hearts. 

The time of special danger to the heart in the course of 
violent exercise is that point just before one gets what is 
commonly called his " second wind," a term signifying that 
the heart has become able to pump the blood through the 
lungs fast enough to accommodate the increased demand for 
oxygen on the part of the exercising muscles. As a rule, 
sudden sprinting is dangerous on the part of men and 
women who are above thirty-five years of age. 

EXERCISE AND RESPIRATION 

Physical exercise favors deep breathing. If you cannot 
breathe properly and deeply, run around the block, and then 
you will be able to breathe ideally in spite of yourself. Ex- 
ercise creates a demand for air, as it does for water. It is 
therefore a cure both for deficient breathing and deficient 
water-drinking. In measuring the lung capacities of a 
large number of men and women, it has been found that 
the average man breathes but one-half of his capacity 
one-half what he should breathe ; while women are offenders 
to the astonishing degree that they breathe but one-fourth 
of their capacity. 

During active physical exercise, the amount of air (oxy- 
gen) taken into the lungs, and the amount of carbonic 
acid gas (CO 2 ) given out, is increased from one hundred 



46 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

to six hundred per cent. It seems almost needless to em- 
phasize the special importance of fresh air in all work or 
exercise rooms, and also the necessity of having the trunk 
clothed with loose-fitting garments, freely to permit of the 
normal respiratory excursion. 

The elimination of poisonous matters through the skin 
by means of the sweat glands is greatly facilitated by active 
physical exercise. Nothing conduces to a healthy, beauti- 
ful skin more than regular exercise. 

EXERCISE AND THE MIND 

Body work is absolutely essential to first-class brain 
work. The studied efforts of the health-seeker should be 
to secure well-balanced exercise of both mind and body. 
The proper nourishment and systematic exercise of the 
body contributes much to the healthful action of the mind 
and nervous system. Overexertion is detrimental to the 
nerves and in no way helpful to either mind or body. Mod- 
erate physical exercise gives one the best command of the 
mental faculties, contributes very much to clearness of mind 
and calmness of judgment, and in every way favors all- 
round self-control. 

Systematic physical exercise aids in the destruction of 
many of the harmful poisons which are constantly devel- 
oped within the body. In this way the mind is kept clearer 
and the soul happier the mental and moral struggle of 
life is greatly lessened, for it is the accumulation or de- 
ficient destruction of many of these body-poisons which is 
responsible for so many of our morbid mental states, to- 
gether with our unhappy and melancholic moods. Physi- 
cal exercise, then, is an invaluable aid to the acquisition of 
a pleasant disposition and the full enjoyment of even one's 
religion. 

EXERCISE DANGERS 

We have emphasized the harm of over-doing athletics, 
calling attention to the danger of subsequent fatty degen- 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 47 

eration in heart and muscles. Dr. Winship was able to 
lift twenty-eight hundred pounds, but he died early in life. 
The dangers from heat stroke must be borne in mind 
while exercising during the heated term. Heat stroke is 
most likely to occur under the following conditions: 

1. Alcohol. 

2. Fatigue. 

3. Close rooms. 

4. Clouded sky. 

5. Tight clothing. 

6. Humid atmosphere. 

7. Excessive meat diet and overeating. 



CHAPTER VI 
THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 

COLD WEATHER CLOTHING. WARM WEATHER CLOTHING. PROTEC- 
TION AGAINST INJURY. THE INJURIOUS EFFECT OF CLOTHING. 

FASHION DEFORMITIES. PERVERTED BREATHING. TREATMENT OF 
WEAK MUSCLES. CLOTHING OF THE EXTREMITIES. THE QUES- 
TION OF UNDERCLOTHING. HEAD COVERING. BED CLOTHING. 

THE real purpose of clothes is not display and adorn- 
ment, but rather to protect the body from the ele- 
ments of cold and heat, from injury, and adequately to sat- 
isfy the social demands of modesty. If we accept the doc- 
trine that man in his primitive innocence roamed this world, 
garbed in the scant attire of the savage, and that it was 
only with the awakening of the consciousness of sin that 
clothes became necessary, then our external adornment be- 
comes a token of racial guilt and a badge of conscious sin. 
The necessity for clothes is hardly a thing to be proud of. 
Clothing is a perpetual reminder of the loss of the primitive 
innocence of former ages. Why should so much time be 
spent on clothing the body, ofttimes in ways that are highly 
injurious and disease-producing? How much better it 
would be to follow the dictates of judgment and reason 
rather than to be guided by the follies of fashion and the 
demands of popular custom. 

COLD WEATHER CLOTHING 

The chief purpose of clothing is to protect the body in 
cold weather. The average man is unable to produce suffi- 
cient heat to keep the body warm during the winter unless 
that heat be conserved by means of clothing in close con- 
tact with the skin. The human body can resist heat far 

48 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 49 

better than cold. The bare skin will withstand both the 
heat of the tropics and the enormously high temperature of 
the Turkish bath, but it cannot withstand excessive cold 
without some sort of protection. 

The value of various clothing materials as heat-conserv- 
ers differs greatly. Linen and cotton are good conductors 
of heat, and therefore are better suited to summer than 
winter wear, unless worn next to the skin with an outer 
garment made wholly or partially of wool. Wool and silk 
are both poor conductors of heat, therefore not adapted for 
warm weather clothing, but well suited for winter. 

Several layers of clothing are much more useful in keep- 
ing the body warm than a single layer, even though that 
single layer be as heavy or heavier than all the materials 
composing the several layers. The modern practice of 
weighting fabrics with " earthy " materials or loading them 
down with dyes to such an extent as to render them almost 
impervious to air and moisture, is to be deplored. Many of 
these dyes are poisonous and cause inflammations and 
eruptions of the skin. 

If we take the naked body and represent its radiation of 
heat by one hundred, the ordinary woollen shirt is found to 
reduce the radiation of heat to seventy-three. A linen and 
an outer woollen shirt will reduce the heat loss to sixty. A 
linen shirt, a woollen shirt, and a vest, reduce heat radia- 
tion to forty-six; while a linen shirt, a woollen shirt, and a 
coat and vest, reduce the heat radiation to thirty-three per 
cent. 

Furs are more ornamental than useful, as they are or- 
dinarily worn. They may, indeed, become positively harm- 
ful from the over-heating of a limited surface of the skin. 
To get the real benefit of fur coats, they should be worn 
with the fur inside. 

Linen absorbs moisture more readily than wool and dries 
twice as quickly. In the ability to absorb bodily moisture, 
cotton comes next; then silk. Quick moistening is a time- 
honored test between linen and cotton. This ability to ab- 
sorb water largely and evaporate it quickly makes linen a 

4 



50 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

very desirable fabric for underclothing with but this single 
objection: too quick evaporation of the perspiration from the 
underclothes will chill the skin. This single objection to 
linen as a material for underclothing is overcome by the 
wearing of cotton, or, still better, woollen outer garments. 
This arrangement permits the quick removal of the exhala- 
tions of the skin by rapid evaporation through the linen 
under garments; at the same time prevents chilling by the 
slow passage of the heated vapors through the cotton and 
woollen outer garments. 

Starched clothes are probably a little warmer during the 
cold season, as they lessen the radiation of heat from the 
body. Two thin suits of underwear will always prove 
warmer than one, an air space existing between them which 
lessens the loss of heat. The actual temperature of the 
body next to and underneath the underwear is about eighty- 
six degrees. 

The practice of attending balls and other evening func- 
tions clad in low-necked attire, with no other outer wrap 
than a thin opera coat, is conducive to chilling of the skin, 
frequently resulting in pneumonia and other internal con- 
gestions. 

The wearing of tight garters by either men or women 
interferes with the circulation of blood in the lower ex- 
tremities, especially the return circulation through the veins. 
Varicose veins and ulcers of the leg are both produced and 
aggravated by this practice. 

Great care should be taken not to over-clothe the body 
during the winter. Over-clothing debilitates the skin, pro- 
ducing unconscious perspiration, the evaporation of which 
exposes the body to chilling and subsequent colds. The 
skin must be kept warm, but it should be slowly and sys- 
tematically trained to react to cold to withstand ordinary 
drafts if necessary. In this way one may gradually build 
up a skin reaction which will prevent many attacks of cold 
and grippe. On the other hand, when going out of doors 
during the cold weather, do not forget to put on suitable 
outdoor wraps. While it is important not to over-clothe 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 51 

the body indoors, it is equally important not to under-clothe 
it when going out into the cold. 

WARM WEATHER CLOTHING 

Clothing also serves the purpose of protecting the body 
against the heat of summer, the sunburn of the sunlight, 
and the dampness of the rainy day. The essential feature 
of summer clothing is porosity. The meshes should be 
large and the weave coarse. Abundant opportunity should 
be afforded for the elimination of heat. White, gray, or 
other light-colored clothing is better suited to warm weather, 
as it more fully radiates the light of the sun, thus protect- 
ing the body from the absorption of external heat, as well 
as aiding in carrying off the heat of the body. No starched 
clothing should be worn during the summer. Every one will 
recall how uncomfortable stiff, starched shirts, waists, and 
other summer clothing are as compared with loose-fitting, 
pliable flannels and other soft clothing, on a hot day. 

Black and blue garments are the most unsuitable for hot 
weather. These dark colors largely absorb the heat rays 
of the sun and transmit them to the body. They also ab- 
sorb odors in a larger degree than light colors. Their only 
advantage (in reality a disadvantage) is that they do not 
show the soil so readily; but it must be remembered that 
they gather dirt just as quickly. While there are many 
vocations in which white clothing cannot be worn because 
of the ease with which it is superficially soiled and begrimed, 
one would not want to wear a suit of black underclothing 
for three months just because it does not show dirt. 

Since white materials reflect the heat of the sun, they 
are best for summer wear, but when they are very thin, 
much of the heat passes right through the clothing without 
being reflected. Therefore, the coolest possible garment 
for hot weather wear is obtained by employing a thin, white- 
colored fabric lined with a very thin, dark-colored lining. 
Such a garment will be found to be the coolest possible 
creation for summer wear. 



52 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Waterproof clothing is sometimes worn as a protection 
against chill and dampness. Such garments prevent the 
evaporation of the sweat and other poisonous vapors from 
the body. For this reason they are unhygienic, and should 
be immediately removed upon coming indoors. Otherwise, 
chilling of the skin and derangement of the circulation re- 
sult from this retention of perspiration. If the underclothes 
are saturated with perspiration, they should be immediately 
removed. Dry the skin quickly with a Turkish towel and 
put on dry under garments. 

PROTECTION AGAINST INJURY 

Clothing serves to protect the skin against various in- 
jurious agents. Gloves protect the hands when performing 
rough work and during cold weather. Shoes protect the 
feet from bruises and from the heat and cold. Some great 
evangel of reform is needed to revolutionize the modern 
methods of clothing the feet. The Chinese are not the only 
race that deliberately distort their feet. Among the bet- 
ter classes of the civilized races, it is almost impossible to 
find a foot that is not more or less permanently deformed. 
The shape and impress of the natural sole of the foot is 
almost entirely ignored in the making of the modern shoe- 
maker's last. 

Excessively thin-soled shoes are dangerous in both sum- 
mer and winter. Colds in the head, disturbances of the 
bowels, and inflammation of the pelvic organs, often result 
from long chilling of the feet. We cannot find language 
sufficiently strong to express our condemnation of the mod- 
ern, close-fitting, pointed-toed shoe, with its ridiculous 
French heel. The high-heeled shoe is especially detrimental 
to young girls. No mother should think of permitting her 
daughter, just budding into womanhood, to wear these ab- 
surd and health-destroying creations of fashion and folly. 

It should be borne in mind that man has a foot unlike 
that of the monkey, whose foot much resembles the hand. 
Man's great toe, corresponding with the thumb, is the 
longest of all the toes; therefore, proper fitting shoes can- 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 53 

not be made after the lines of the glove, as our pointed- 
toed shoes are constructed, but must be built along the 
lines of the natural foot. 

Laced shoes are preferable to buttoned shoes. They are 
more easily regulated with respect to ease and comfort, 
and permit of more unhampered action on the part of the 
foot. While rubber shoes are a boon in wet weather, they 
should be removed at the earliest possible moment. Rubber 
heels are a great comfort to many people. 

THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF CLOTHING 

It is a practice prevalent among most savage and bar- 
barous peoples to deform or distort some part of the body. 
(See Fig. n.) The Chinese bind up the feet of their 
aristocratic girl babies. The North American Indian straps 
a board over the forehead of his papoose in order to im- 
part a fashionable degree of flatness to the head. The 
African belle may be adorned with a ring either in the 
lip or in the ear, while her cousins may be grotesquely 
tattooed. Among uncivilized races such practices do not 
seem so far out of place; but when civilized, intelligent 
even Christianized peoples resort to deforming the human 
body, it should shock our sensibilities to the point of serious 
contemplation. 

Among civilized races, woman has come to be regarded 
as the "weaker vessel." She is not so regarded among 
the uncivilized. An African explorer was unable to get a 
male porter who would undertake to carry a heavy box of 
minerals over the mountains. At last, he was told that no 
man could carry such a weight, that he would have to 
get a woman. Thereupon he secured the services of a 
female porter who easily carried this enormous burden 
so heavy as to require two men to lift it. 

The physical weakness of the modern civilized woman, 
while resulting, no doubt, from many and varied causes, is 
chiefly the result of her unnatural and unhealthful mode 
of dress. 

The fundamental principle underlying all methods of 



54 * THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

dress is that we should make our clothes to fit the body 
given us by God, and not squeeze and distort the human 
form divine into fitting the clothes garments which the 
originators of fashion may decree that men and women 
should wear. It is bad enough to constrict the feet with 
unnaturally shaped shoes, to deform the skull after the 
fashion of the Indians, but consequences of far greater 
gravity follow in the wake of the modern practice of con- 
stricting the waist, thus compressing the vital organs found 
in the chest and abdomen. 

Constriction of the waist by corsets and bands on the 
part of women, and by tight belts on the part of men, can- 
not be too strongly condemned. We are aware that doc- 
tors have recently arisen to defend the corset, claiming 
that women have so weakened the muscles of the abdominal 
walls from tight lacing, that the corset has become a real 
necessity to the present generation. But who can fail to 
discern the folly of such philosophy? It might be argued 
with equal force that any physical or moral vice of the 
present day has become a necessity because of the physical 
or moral weakness which indulgence has produced. These 
champions of the corset, in the very arguments they ad- 
vance, confess to the fact that it has weakened the abdominal 
muscles and displaced the internal organs of its devotees. 
Far better it would be, instead of defending this pernicious 
instrument of torture and deformity, to point out methods 
whereby its harmful effects may be partially or wholly over- 
come, to lift a warning voice to every mother against allow- 
ing her daughter to be " formed " by the dressmaker yes, 
to teach young and old to be content with the human figure 
as carved by Nature, and to be satisfied with the human 
form as outlined by the Master Artist. 

FASHION DEFORMITIES 

How pathetic to behold the young girl, while her brothers 
romp and play with freedom and pleasure, having her form 
gradually compressed and misshapen by the tight corset, 




ffing Lipped African 




Flat Headed Jndiarr 




Fnof nf Chinese 
Woman Deformed 




A Society da//e. 



FIG. II.- Various F35h/n 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY- 55 

as a little cucumber might be forced to distort its form 
while growing in the neck of a small bottle. 

From measurements taken among various savage and 
uncivilized tribes, as well as among American and European 
women who have never worn corsets, it has been found 
that the circumference of the waist of the average healthy 
woman is just about one-half her height. The circumfer- 
ence of the waist of the Venus de Milo is just forty-seven 
and six-tenths per cent of her height. (See Fig. 12.) 
The author and his wife have measured numerous women 
of different nationalities, whose waists have never been 
constricted, and have almost invariably found their cir- 
cumference to be from forty-five to fifty per cent that of 
the height. 

So pernicious is the effect of waist constriction upon the 
health that many modern physicians have come to recognize 
a whole group of diseases as being caused directly or in- 
directly by tight lacing. Floating kidneys, headaches, back- 
aches, sideaches, and liver complaints, are ofttimes caused 
by this fashionable practice. It is reported that a German 
surgeon had to open the abdomen and remove a portion of 
the liver which had been entirely cut off in a case of 
corset constriction. 

Corsets restrict the breathing; they weaken the abdominal 
muscles; they displace the internal organs, favoring con- 
stipation, and indirectly contributing to the causes of indi- 
gestion, and congestion of the liver and pelvic organs. The 
corset is indirectly chargeable with a vast amount of the 
sufferings of womankind usually designated as " female 
complaints." 

The wearing of corsets has probably contributed more 
than any other single factor to the gradual undermining of 
the physical health and vitality of American women, in 
a measure unfitting them for motherhood. According to 
eminent authorities, tight lacing predisposes to many forms 
of tumor-growths of the pelvis and abdomen, due to the 
disturbance of circulation and displacement of internal 
organs. 



5 6 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

The author would not have it understood that he desires to 
condemn all forms of corsets and hygienic waists or other 
loose-fitting supporters and waists worn by excessively 
fleshy women. At the same time, observation has led to 
the opinion that practically all the so-called " health corsets," 
reform waists, -etc., are a snare and a delusion. Many of 
them are a great improvement over their wicked predeces- 
sors, but at best they should be regarded in the light of 
crutches or temporary makeshifts. They cannot be relied 
upon to take the place of the natural tone and strength of 
the muscles, which must be built up by painstaking and per- 
sistent exercises. 

PERVERTED BREATHING 

It must be evident to the most casual observer that any 
long-continued stricture of the waist will produce a super- 
ficial type of breathing. When the waist is constricted, 
the diaphragm cannot functionate as in normal respiration. 
Its downward movement is prevented by corset wearing. 
This is the only explanation of the fact noted in the chap- 
ter on Breathing, that civilized women employ costal breath- 
ing (chest breathing), while men employ more largely the 
abdominal type of breathing. Women have to breathe with 
their chests often with only the upper portion of the 
chest, because the corset prevents expansion at the equator 
of the trunk. 

Many medical men of to-day believe that the tight lacing 
of the last generation is in many ways responsible for the 
fact that the daughters of the rising generation are phys- 
ically inferior to their mothers and grandmothers when they 
were girls. There can be little doubt that this inordinate 
distortion of the human form must sooner or later exhibit 
disastrous effects upon posterity. 

TREATMENT OF WEAK MUSCLES 

Many will no doubt ask what can be done to overcome 
the weakness of muscles and to restore misplaced and mis- 




" VENUS DE M i uo 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY $? 

shapen internal organs resulting from tight lacing. It is 
hardly possible that many of the victims of the corset can 
escape more or less lengthy medical attention, but there are 
several things which will greatly alleviate their condition 
and partially undo the results of this wrong practice. We 
would therefore suggest that instead of continuing the corset 
because of the weakness it has produced, some suitably 
fitting .bandage be worn which will extend around the body 
and serve as a sort of hammock-support for the lower and 
most pendulous portion of the abdominal wall. The internal 
organs have a tendency to displace downward, as the result 
of constriction at the waist, but may be partially held in 
place by means of this abdominal support, which should 
be used only temporarily, while the patient goes to work 
by proper exercises and massage and, if possible, sinusoidal 
electricity, to strengthen and upbuild the abdominal walls, 
thus enabling Nature to do her work without artificial sup- 
port. The cause of the difficulty must be removed, as none 
of these abdominal bandages should be depended upon any 
longer than is required to strengthen Nature's crippled re- 
sources. 

The following exercises are valuable for strengthening 
the abdominal muscles: 

1. Lying on back resting hands on hips, stiffen knees and 
raise legs to as near right angles to the body as possible. 

2. All forms of trunk bending and twisting. 

3. Forward bending of trunk (keeping knees stiff) until 
ends of fingers can touch- floor. 

4. Lying on floor face down, raising both the extended 
hands and feet from the floor at the same time, supporting 
body by abdominal muscles. 

5. Deep breathing, walking, and even proper stair climb- 
ing, all help to develop weak abdominal muscles. 

6. Massage to abdomen. 

CLOTHING OF THE EXTREMITIES 

The clothing of the extremities deserves more than a 
passing notice. The arms and legs represent parts of the 



58 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

body where the blood-vessels are most exposed; where the 
blood is more easily chilled ; where there is less of the warm 
blood and animal heat to keep the tissues warm. When 
the legs and arms are chilled, some internal organ is at 
the same time proportionately congested. It is a great 
mistake to put so much clothing upon the chest and abdo- 
men, frequently entirely overlooking the extremities. Lit- 
tle girls with short dresses and insufficiently clad limbs and 
ankles are an invitation to pneumonia, and often when they 
are thus clothed at the critical period of their lives, the 
foundation is laid for a life-long invalidism. The present 
short-sleeved garments may be a hygienic blessing in the 
summer, but they are a positive curse in the winter, as the 
extremities are the parts of the body in special need of 
clothing during the cold season. 

Do not make the mistake of wearing underclothes or 
other garments at night which have been worn during the 
day. Likewise, great care should be taken to arrange prop- 
erly the garments worn during the day, so that at night they 
may be thoroughly aired. 

It is a great mistake to dress the neck too warm during 
the cold season. The wearing of heavy furs or enormous 
mufflers is weakening to the skin and productive of sore 
throats and colds. The only parts of the face in need of 
special protection from the cold are the ears. Such pro- 
tection is best afforded by the ordinary style of ear-muffs. 

The pernicious practice of suspending heavy skirts from 
the waist is a curse both to the growing girl and the adult 
woman. This habit interferes with the proper circulation 
of the blood in the lower extremities, at the same time 
producing more or less congestion of the pelvic organs. 
The skirts should be suspended by the means of proper 
supports from the shoulders or waist, or in some other 
hygienic manner which will avoid the dragging of these 
heavy weights upon the pelvic frame. If no other remedy 
can be found, it would be better to adopt some style of 
knickerbockers to be worn in place of cotton drawers and 
heavy skirts. 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 59 

THE QUESTION OF UNDERCLOTHING 

In discussing underclothing, it must be remembered that 
individuals greatly differ, both in the sensibility of the skin 
and in the ability of the body to keep itself warm. Ironclad 
rules concerning underwear cannot be laid down. The au- 
thor, years ago, was accustomed to wear the heaviest under- 
clothing during the winter, but by practising cool morning 
bathing for a number of years and reducing the weight of 
the under-garment from year to year, he has improved the 
skin circulation until at the present writing he is wearing 
next to the thinnest cotton union suits thoughout the winter. 
Much can be done to train the skin to better circulation 
and reaction; but this must be done very gradually, or else 
the skin may be chilled, and pneumonia and other serious 
diseases may result from an over-enthusiastic desire to 
harden oneself to the cold. 

All things considered, linen mesh is the best material 
for underclothing. The only thing against it is the cost, 
which prevents it from coming into general use. Linen is 
the ideal fabric to wear next to the skin, for the reason 
that it is comparatively light for the protection it affords, 
and holds the heat moderately well. It promotes a fair 
degree of heat radiation during the summer. But its chief 
virtue lies in that while it serves as a protection from 
cold, it permits of the free passage and evaporation of 
the moisture and gases which are exhaled from the skin; 
and herein lies the chief objection to both wool and cotton 
under-garments. Next to linen, cotton must be accepted 
as the best underwear, and wools and flannels must be re- 
garded as the most unsatisfactory from almost every stand- 
point. (See discussion in fore part of this chapter.) 

It seems superfluous to remind sensible people of the ne- 
cessity of properly changing clothing with the change of 
seasons, or with a change in the weather during any one 
season. Underwear, overcoats, outer garments, etc., should 
be changed according to the season and to the temperature 
from day to day. Unless there is a great change in tern- 



60 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

perature, it will be found best not to change the weight of 
underclothes from day to day, or week to week, but to meet 
these changes by shifting the outer garments or wraps. 

We strongly advocate the union suit for boys and girls, 
men and women. Its advantages are many, chief of which 
is that it affords uniform covering of the skin without over- 
lapping of garments in the region of the abdomen and pelvis, 
where they are least needed, and where undue accumulation 
of heat is undesirable. They do away with the temptation 
to have garments drawn tightly about the waist, and it is 
to be hoped that this type of under-garment will soon come 
into universal use. 

We cannot dismiss this phase of our subject without a 
word of disapproval for the long dress the fashionable 
trains and trailing skirts. The decree of fashion in this 
respect has been a little more reasonable in recent years, 
but still it is not uncommon to see some women of culture 
and education, whose garments sweep the street, gathering 
up filth by the pound and microbes by the million. This 
street-dirt is carried into the home and scattered over the 
beautiful rugs, where perhaps an innocent babe will crawl 
about and infect itself with some deadly microbe. 

HEAD COVERING 

The fashion in hats is subject to frequent change, but 
the heavy hat, of whatever pattern, must rest under per- 
manent condemnation. It is responsible for many head- 
aches and much depression. And for the same -reason the 
heavy mourning paraphernalia must be condemned as un- 
healthful. Some more hygienic means should be discovered 
for expressing one's sense of bereavement in the case of 
the loss of loved ones. Oculists have recently called atten- 
tion to the fact that the wearing of veils is of more or 
less injury to the vision. Compelling the eyes to see objects 
through a network so closely placed before them is found 
to be injurious to the sense of sight. 

Straw hats, of course, are the ideal for both men and 
women during the summer; and the woman who has a 



THE PROPER CLOTHING OF THE BODY 6l 

heavy head of hair will find them most acceptable during 
the greater part of the year. 

Men's stiff or felt hats should have small holes at some 
point in the crown to permit of the circulation of air. 
There can be little doubt that the rigidity of the hatband 
is more or less responsible for baldness on the part of men, 
as well as the exclusion of fresh air and sunshine from the 
hair by tight and close-fitting hats. This no doubt accounts 
for the fact that men are ofttimes bald on the crown of the 
head while the hair grows well about the borders of the 
scalp. The theory has recently been advanced that super- 
ficial breathing is responsible for baldness. There is no 
doubt something in this, but it still remains a fact that 
men, while they breathe much more deeply and normally 
than women, are the great sufferers from baldness. 

For exactly the same reason that heavy hats are unde- 
sirable, the modern practice of wearing an inordinate 
amount of artificial hair in connection with the fashionable 
pompadours or so-called " rats," etc., must be condemned as 
unhealthful and sure to result in subsequent headaches and 
ultimate disease of the natural hair itself. 

BED CLOTHING 

Comparatively hard beds are more hygienic than the 
soft feather beds. We use the term " hard " bed in con- 
trast to the feather bed, and refer to such foundations as 
a good hair mattress, box springs, etc., with perhaps a cot- 
ton pad resting on the top. The old-fashioned comforter 
is undesirable. It is easily soiled and difficult to launder. 
Blankets or down quilts are preferable. Care should be 
taken not to have too much covering during sleep. The 
body must be kept warm, but sometimes less covering could 
be used if the sleeping garments were of the proper sort. 
The ordinary loose nightdress is practically useless during 
the winter. Both men and women should adopt some form 
of sleeping garb which will protect the body, especially the 
lower extremities. Such protection is probably best af- 
forded by some garment of the pa jama type. The matter 



62 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

of proper dressing at night deserves attention, because 
hygienic sleeping requires that the room should be cold. 
One of the blessings of winter is to be found in the ability 
to sleep in a cold room while the body itself is kept com- 
fortable and warm. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 

ANATOMY OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. THE MOUTH. THE STOM- 
ACH. THE LIVER. THE PANCREAS. THE INTESTINE. PHYS- 
IOLOGY OF DIGESTION. DIGESTIVE FERMENTS OR ENZYMES. THE 

SALIVA. THE GASTRIC JUICE. APPETITE JUICE. THE BILE. 
THE PANCREATIC JUICE. THE INTESTINAL JUICE. WHY THE 
STOMACH DOES NOT DIGEST ITSELF. WHAT IS SECRETION? 
STOMACH AND INTESTINAL MOVEMENTS. 

THE process of digestion is one of the most fascinating 
and interesting studies to be found in all the realm 
of human physiology. The proper understanding of diges- 
tion is very essential to the profitable and intelligent con- 
sideration of the questions of diet, food, and cookery. 
Therefore space will be given to the study of the physiology 
of digestion before the discussion of these related problems 
is entered upon. 

ANATOMY OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS 

Man's digestive canal is about thirty feet long, embracing 
numerous organs and intestinal sections, extending from 
the mouth to the rectum. (Fig. 13.) In general, the ana- 
tomical structure of the various portions of the digestive tube 
is very similar, consisting of connective tissue and several 
layers of muscle, containing a vast network of nerves and 
blood-vessels, lined with mucous membrane, in which are 
embedded untold thousands of special secretory glands, 
wherein are manufactured the various digestive fluids. The 
organs of digestion are five in number: the mouth, the 
stomach, the liver, the pancreas, and the intestines. These 
five digestive organs secrete five special digestive fluids, 
and, as will be seen later, there are five great food elements 
to be acted upon by these digestive agents. 

63 



64 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

The mouth. The mouth is the first organ of digestion. 
It is the mill in which the food is to be ground, moistened, 
and otherwise properly prepared for swallowing. The adult 
possesses thirty-two teeth, and it should be remembered that 
this is the only digestive organ having teeth; therefore the 
only one prepared to grind food. The mouth is the only 
digestive organ under the control of the will, the voluntary 
nervous system. The saliva is contributed by three sets of 
glands: the parotid, from which comes the most important 
element of the saliva, the submaxillary, and the sublingual 
glands. Numerous small glands of the tongue and mouth 
also contribute their secretions to the saliva. 

The taste buds are located at the base of the tongue. 
The nerves of taste end in these little elevations, which have 
to do with the processes of digestion as will be seen later. 

The stomach. The stomach is a distended or enlarged 
portion of the digestive tube, marking the termination of 
the esophagus, which extends down from the throat. At 
the other end of the stomach the bowel begins. The stom- 
ach is lined with mucous membrane containing numerous 
secretory glands, those in one end being more largely con- 
cerned with the secretion of pepsin, those in the other, with 
the production of hydrochloric acid. The muscles of the 
stomach are quite strong when not over-worked or over- 
distended. It has a very large nerve supply connected with 
both the voluntary and the involuntary nervous systems, 
which no doubt accounts for its being affected by so many 
different mental and physical conditions. 

The liver. The liver is an organ of both digestion and 
excretion. It is in reality a large gland. It is the great filter 
of the body. The blood is gathered up from the various 
organs of digestion by the portal circulation and carried 
to the liver, where the poisons it contains are either de- 
stroyed, changed, or rendered less harmful. The bile is 
secreted continuously, but as it is needed for digestive pur- 
poses only at stated intervals, it is stored in a pouch-like 
organ called the gall bladder, from which it is emptied into 
the intestine when required. 




FIG 13.- Diagram of the DigB5tive System 



THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 65 

The pancreas. This gland, situated a little back of the 
outlet of the stomach, empties its secretion into the intes- 
tine along with the bile. It is one of the smaller glands of 
digestion, but performs very important work. 

The intestine. The intestine in man consists of the small 
and the large bowel. The small intestine is about twenty- 
five feet long and is divided into three portions, the first part 
connected with the stomach being known as the duode- 
num. At the junction of the small and the large intestine is 
the caecum, from the lower portion of which the vermiform 
appendix extends. 

The large intestine, or colon, is also divided into three 
portions, the ascending, the transverse, and the descending, 
ending in the rectum. There are various glands to be 
found in the mucous membranes of both the small and the 
large intestine. Anatomists have estimated that there are 
millions of little structures in the intestine after the fashion 
of a suction pump, which draw up the digested portions of 
the food for assimilation. 

PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 

The physiology of digestion is concerned with the secre- 
tion and action of the various digestive juices, whose func- 
tion is to change insoluble food substances into soluble 
states, so that they may be absorbed through the intestinal 
walls into the blood-stream. 

Digestive ferments or enzymes. Before entering upon the 
study of digestion, it will be well to give brief space to 
the study of enzymes, their nature and methods of working. 
The digestive ferments are peculiar substances, secreted by 
the special glands of the various digestive organs. They 
possess the remarkable property of changing food from one 
form to another from the insoluble to the soluble ; and 
still more wonderful, they seem to accomplish this mar- 
vellous feat simply by their presence. That is, apparently 
they do not enter into chemical combination with the food, 
but influence the splitting up of the food-substances by 
their presence, in a manner not altogether understood, 
s 



66 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

A very small amount of one of these enzymes for example, 
pepsin is able to dissolve and digest an almost infinite 
amount of protein. In general, they operate upon the prin- 
ciple of adding water to and taking water away from the 
molecule of food, thereby causing it to divide and subdivide. 
Experiments have been made in which these ferments have 
actually digested almost half a million times their weight of 
food substance. Outside of the required temperature, the 
only condition necessary for their action is the presence of 
acid or alkali some acting in the former medium and 
some in the latter. 

There is one important thing connected with the action 
of enzymes that should not be overlooked. If the products 
of digestion are allowed to accumulate, the action of the en- 
zyme is interfered with. If this failure to remove the prod- 
ucts of digestion persists, the digestive enzyme begins what is 
known as its "reverse action,". a process in which it actually 
undoes its previous work of digestion takes the soluble 
products of its own action and literally builds them back 
into insoluble substances of the food. This may afford some 
explanation of the poor nutrition of people who habitually 
suffer from dyspepsia, slow digestion, and weakness of the 
stomach muscle. 

Ferments or enzymes similar to those found in the stom- 
ach and other digestive organs are found in many food 
substances. The pawpaw contains a very powerful enzyme. 
Milk contains one of these ferments, which is destroyed by 
boiling, and this accounts for the fact that boiled milk is 
more difficult of digestion than raw milk. Pasteurization 
destroys many of the germs in milk, but does not destroy its 
digestive ferment. 

The cereals contain a ferment called diastase or maltase, 
which acts in a manner very similar to the enzyme of the 
saliva. This fact is utilized by the brewer in the process 
of changing the starch of the barley into sugar, which is 
then allowed to ferment. When the planted seed becomes 
warm and moist, this diastase begins the process of con- 
verting the starch into sugar for the nourishment of the 



THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 67 

tender little sproutlet until it can reach the sunlight, where 
it can manufacture food upon its own account. 

THE SALIVA 

The saliva is the digestive fluid of the first organ of diges- 
tion, the mouth, and comes from the three sets of salivary 
glands, each gland contributing a special portion. It is 
slightly alkaline in reaction. Its digestive ferment is called 
ptyalin, and changes soluble (cooked) starch into sugar 
(dextrine). This dextrine, or sugar, is the same as the 
sugar found in fruits, but differs from cane sugar. The 
saliva cannot digest raw starch. It acts with difficulty upon 
poorly cooked starch cereals that have been boiled but 
a short time. It acts more quickly and more thoroughly 
upon starches which have been baked cooked in the oven. 
The more thoroughly starch is cooked, the more fully will 
the saliva digest it. An illustration of the fact that saliva 
changes starch into sugar is found in the simple experiment 
of prolonged chewing of a piece of dry bread or toast. 
The longer it is chewed, the sweeter it becomes, owing to 
the continued changing of the starch into sugar. The saliva 
and the salivary sugars aid in dissolving the various salts 
which nourish the bones. These bone-salts are also dis- 
solved by the juices of the stomach and intestine. 

Two to three pints of saliva are secreted in twenty-four 
hours. Tobacco and gum-chewing increase the quantity but 
deteriorate the quality. Saliva is stimulated by dryness of 
the food, mild acids, natural food flavors, and by appetite. 
Its action is hindered by drinking at meals, by acids such 
as vinegar, the oxalic acid of pie-plant, the citric acid of 
lemon juice, and even by tea and coffee. The saliva is a 
solvent for food, moistens the mouth for speech, cleanses 
the teeth, etc., in addition to its digestive function. 

The saliva properly liquifies the food, and all food should 
be liquified before it is swallowed. It also regulates the 
temperature if food is taken into the mouth too hot or too 
cold. It serves to protect the mouth by washing out noxious 
substances. Its secretion is almost instantaneous. It is af- 



68 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

fected both by the food in the mouth and by the thought 
of food, from whence springs the saying that one's " mouth 
waters." 

When food is properly liquified by mastication and ad- 
mixture of saliva, it finds its way into the minute circular 
troughs which surround the taste buds at the base of the 
tongue. Here it bathes the organs of taste with the various 
flavors which are in solution, and in this way, through the 
nervous system, messages are sent to the stomach, in obedi- 
ence to which that organ begins the outpouring of gastric 
juice in about four and a half minutes from the time the 
taste buds are excited. 

The process of swallowing was until recently regarded as 
a voluntary one, but Mr. Horace Fletcher and certain phy- 
siologists have called attention to the fact that when food 
is thoroughly liquified, swallowing takes place involuntarily. 
This is illustrated by the fact that it is very difficult to 
chew liquids. If one undertakes to chew a mouthful of 
water, he will find that there is a constant tendency toward 
involuntary swallowing. 

THE GASTRIC JUICE 

The gastric juice is secreted by the glands of the stomach 
and contains two ferments: pepsin, which digests the pro- 
teins lean meat, the white of egg, beans, cheese, the 
gluten of the cereals, etc. ; and another ferment called rennin 
the milk-curdling ferment. It is this ferment, taken from 
animals, which is used in the manufacture of cheese. From 
five to ten quarts of gastric juice are secreted in twenty- 
four hours. 

During the first half of digestion, the stomach is divided 
into two unequal parts, somewhat after the manner of an 
hour-glass. The outlet portion contains acid gastric juice, 
and performs very energetic movements of digestion; while 
the other half serves as a sort of reservoir in which the di- 
gestion of starch is continued. If the saliva has been 
thoroughly mixed with the food in the mouth, starch diges- 
tion continues in the stomach from one-half to one hour. 



THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 69 

Little by little this food mass is broken up, passed into the 
more active end of the stomach, is thoroughly mixed with 
the gastric juice, and every now and then a little of it is 
squirted out through the pylorus the opening of the stom- 
ach into the first part of the small intestine, the duo- 
denum. (Salivary activity is resumed in the bowel.) 

The gastric juice contains two acids: one, hydrochloric 
acid, is secreted by the walls of the stomach ; the other, lactic 
acid, is produced by the presence of certain germs of fer- 
mentation in the food. It is the over-production of either 
or both of these acids that produces the so-called " acid 
dyspepsia." Their under-production will produce slow di- 
gestion, for the pepsin can digest protein only when hydro- 
chloric acid is present. The slow digestion of old people 
and others, as a rule, is not due to lack of pepsin, but to a 
lack of hydrochloric acid, which renders the pepsin power- 
less to act. Hydrochloric acid is a good germ killer, but 
when too much is present in the stomach, it may produce 
gastric ulcer, if the tissues are debilitated. 

The time food remains in the stomach depends entirely 
upon the thoroughness of its mastication, the strength of 
the gastric juice, and the power of the stomach muscles. 
Therefore, reliable tables cannot be prepared giving the 
time required for the digestion of different foods, as perfect 
mastication, keen appetite, strong gastric juice, and vigorous 
muscular action on the part of the stomach, will cut the 
ordinary time of digestion of certain foods in half. The 
reverse conditions would produce an increased slowness of 
digestion. 

APPETITE JUICE 

In his remarkable experiments upon dogs, Pawlow, the 
Russian physiologist, demonstrated that the secretion of the 
gastric juice during the first half of digestion is entirely 
regulated by the sense of taste and the keenness of the ap- 
petite. The presence of food in the stomach, with the ex- 
ception of milk and certain meat and vegetable juices, 
produces no secretion of gastric juice whatever; whereas, 



70 tHE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

the thought of eating or the desire to eat or even the agree- 
able smell of food, produces an abundant flow of strong 
gastric juice in about four and a half minutes. This initial 
j u j c e the only juice to be found in the stomach during the 
first half of digestion has therefore been very aptly called 
" appetite juice." The quantity of this juice may be great 
or small, according as the appetite is good or poor. 

During the latter half of digestion, the appetite juice 
gradually disappears, its place being taken by a second form 
of secretion entirely changed and called the " chemical 
juice," the nature and strength of which is entirely deter- 
mined by the products of digestion found in the stomach 
as the result of the action of its predecessor the appetite 
juice. This chemical juice, which finishes the digestion of 
the meal, is probably secreted under the influence of the 
chemical stimulation of the half-digested food as it comes 
in contact with the walls of the stomach. It would there- 
fore appear, if one had a good appetite and in consequence 
secreted a strong appetite juice during the first hour of di- 
gestion, that this would insure the subsequent secretion of 
a competent chemical juice to finish the digestion of the 
meal properly and satisfactorily. 

Some authorities contend that the chemical juice is se- 
creted, not as a result of the nervous mechanism connected 
with the stomach, but in response to a chemical stimulus 
which passes from the stomach into the blood during the 
first half of digestion. The taking of a large amount of oil 
or fat with the meals greatly lessens the secretion of gastric 
juice. This fact is utilized in treating acid dyspepsia. 

The appetite juice always has the same standard chemical 
formula and digestive power, always showing the same per 
cent of hydrochloric acid; whereas the so-called chemical 
juice constantly varies, the changes being determined by the 
nature of the food and the previous action of the appetite 
juice thereon. 

From different types of meal given to his dogs, Professor 
Pawlow discovered that a different kind and strength of 
gastric juice was secreted for each type. He was able to 



THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 71 

detect a " milk type " of juice, also a " bread and meat type," 
and it would seem highly probable that the gastric juice 
must be secreted to suit each meal. This fact strongly sug- 
gests the advisability of not taking too great a variety of 
foods at any one meal, lest the glands of the stomach be 
unequal to the task of elaborating such a complicated secre- 
tion as would be required to digest such a meal properly. 
When a long-used diet is changed, it requires several days 
for the stomach to become able to secrete the proper juice 
for the digestion of the new diet. Some dogs required 
twenty-one days to get used to a new diet. 

Many of these facts concerning digestion were discovered 
by Pawlow by means of an ingenious surgical operation 
which he performed upon dogs for the purpose of creating 
a " sample stomach," separate and distinct from the main 
stomach and about one-eighth its size. (Fig. 14.) This 
smaller stomach he created out of a portion of the wall of 
the stomach itself. Its opening was outside of the body, so 
that he was able at all times to collect from it a sample of 
the secretions formed in the larger stomach. He also made 
an opening into the gullets (esophagus) of some of the dogs, 
so that when they were fed, the food would fall into a basin 
instead of entering the stomach. This process was called 
" sham feeding " and it was found to produce very strong 
gastric juice in the stomach even when no food at all entered 
the stomach. 

Pawlow, at the end of his very painstaking investigation, 
announced as his general conclusion that " appetite equals 
juice " and therefore, since good gastric juice means good 
digestion, we may very appropriately add, good appetite 
equals good digestion, all things being equal. Milk produces 
a weak gastric juice, meat juice is somewhat stronger, while 
bread produces the strongest juice in digestive power, being 
about three times as powerful as the milk and meat juices. 

Fear, fright, worry, or disappointment, causes an almost 
instantaneous suspension of the stomach's secretions. 

Ordinarily the stomach does not permit solid particles 
of food to leave its portals until very near the close of di- 



72 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

gestion. When solid particles of food come in contact with 
the outlet of the stomach, a spasm occurs, and X-ray ob- 
servations on animals have shown that the outlet opens 
much less frequently for ten to thirty minutes under such 
circumstances. Eventually, the strength of the stomach 
muscle is exhausted, action is suspended, fermentation be- 
gins, flatulency, heartburn, and general poisoning of the 
system result from this failure of the food to pass out of 
the stomach in the required time. Many cases of dilated 
stomach undoubtedly owe their origin to this cause. 

THE BILE 

The bile is an excretion formed by the liver, largely from 
the broken-down red blood corpuscles. It is a golden-col- 
ored substance, which appears green when vomited, owing 
to the changes effected by the acid of the stomach. On 
being expelled from the liver, the bile is stored in the gall- 
bladder, from whence it is poured out in common with the 
pancreatic juice immediately after each meal. These two 
juices are emptied into the duodenum or upper portion of 
the small intestine, not far from the outlet of the stomach. 

The bile contains several salts which are useful in the 
process of digestion. Recent investigations show that the 
outpouring of bile is determined by the same influences 
which regulate the secretion of the pancreatic juice. The 
presence of bile doubles the activity of the starch-digesting 
ferment of the pancreatic juice, and also increases the ability 
of the pancreatic juice to digest proteins, while the in- 
fluence of this juice upon fats is trebled by the presence of 
bile. 

The chief function of the bile is to dissolve fat. The 
action of the bile upon fat results in the formation of soap 
and glycerine saponification. The fat enters the intes- 
tinal wall in the form of soap or fatty acid, where it is 
changed back into emulsified fat during the process of ab- 
sorption. 

The emulsification of fat by the bile is really a process 
of unchurning the butter changing the butter back into 




*vrt AX AA A 

A- The. Main Stomach 

B - 7~/7e small or Sample Stomach 

C - The 3 km of the. Abdomen 



FIG H Diagram Illustrating the 



THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION 73 

the form of cream, where the fat exists as minute droplets, 
and in this form it is easily acted upon by the digestive 
juices of the intestine. 

THE PANCREATIC JUICE 

This digestive fluid enters the duodenum along with the 
bile, and is one of the important digestive juices. The secre- 
tion of this juice together with the bile, is probably very 
little influenced or controlled by the nervous system. The 
secretion of saliva and gastric juice is almost entirely under 
nervous control, whereas the production of bile and pan- 
creatic juice is now thought to be under almost exclusive 
chemical control. 

During digestion, as the acid contents of the stomach are 
injected into the bowel, the action of the acid on the in- 
testinal mucous membrane produces a sudden closure of the 
stomach. The stomach does not again open to empty it- 
self until this acid has been neutralized by the bile and the 
alkaline pancreatic juice. 

The presence of acid in the intestine causes the bowel to 
produce a substance called secretin a sort of chemical 
messenger to the liver and the pancreas, telling them how 
soon their secretions will be needed. This substance has 
been collected and, when injected into the blood-stream of 
an animal, never fails to produce an immediate secretion of 
both bile and pancreatic juice. There are a large number 
of these chemical messengers secreted by the body, and as 
a class they are known as hormones. 

The pancreatic juice is alkaline in reaction and contains 
a number of digestive ferments, acting upon almost all 
classes of foods. One ferment (amylopsin) digests starch. 
It is even able to act upon raw starch, very largely convert- 
ing it into sugar; it finishes the work of starch digestion 
which may have escaped the mouth and stomach as a result 
of insufficient mastication. Another ferment (trypsin) 
acts in the same role as the pepsin of the stomach, digest- 
ing proteins. The other ferment (steapsin) emulsifies fats 
in connection with the bile. A milk-coagulating ferment is 



74 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

also probably present. The pancreatic juice continues its 
three-fold digestive work as the food mass is moved along 
the intestine. 

The action of the pancreatic juice would amount to almost 
nothing, were it not for the influence of the bile on the 
one hand and the action of a certain ferment of the in- 
testinal juice on the other hand. This stimulating enzyme 
of the intestinal fluid is called enterokinase, or the " ferment 
of ferments." 

THE INTESTINAL JUICE 

This is the last of the five digestive juices. It is secreted 
by special glands found in the intestinal wall, more es- 
pecially in the upper portion of the bowel. The presence 
of food in the bowel excites the formation of this juice. 
Its action is hindered by too little bulk in the food. The 
exciting action of the " ferment of ferments," stimulates 
the pancreatic juice in the work of digesting proteins. The 
intestinal juice contains a ferment known as erepsin, which 
also digests proteins. Perhaps the most important digestive 
ferment, however, is invertase, whose work is to transform 
ordinary cane sugar into fruit sugar. Fruit sugars are all 
ready to pass through the intestinal wall without digestion, 
but cane sugar, maple sugar, beet sugar, etc., must be " split 
up " by invertase before they can be absorbed through the 
bowel wall. From twenty to fifty per cent of the cellulose is 
digested in the bowel by the action of various microbes. 

WHY THE STOMACH DOES NOT DIGEST ITSELF 

Physiologists have long discussed and sought for the ex- 
planation of the phenomenon of the stomach digesting the 
flesh of animals and at the same time not digesting itself. 
The theory was advanced that the gastric juice acted upon 
dead tissues only, but a certain French physiologist disproved 
this by placing a portion of the living stomach of a dog in- 
side the stomach of another dog, where it was promptly di- 
gested. The true explanation was but recently discovered. 



THE MARVELS OF DIGESTION ?$ 

A physiologist asked himself the question : " How can a 
tapeworm live in the bowel without being acted upon by the 
juices which digest meat ? " The study of tapeworms led 
to the discovery of a substance now know as " anti-ferment." 
It is the secretion of this substance by tapeworms and by 
the walls of the digestive tract, that preserves both stomach 
and inte-stine from the action of their own digestive fluids. 

WHAT IS SECRETION? 

There is a mystery connected with the secretion of the di- 
gestive fluids which has never been satisfactorily explained 
by science. These wonderful juices are not mere nitrations 
from the blood into the digestive glands ; there appears to be 
a sort of selective intelligence some influence at work not 
explained by either physics or chemistry. For instance: 
the salivary glands produce saliva when the blood-pressure 
within them is twice as great as in the blood-vessels ; under 
which conditions one would naturally expect any secretion 
formed to pass into the blood rather than to flow into the 
mouth against such increased pressure. Again, by what 
means can the stomach form an acid juice out of the blood, 
while the pancreatic gland, from the same blood-stream, 
forms an alkaline juice? Many theories are advanced to 
explain these phenomena, but as yet none have done so sat- 
isfactorily. 

STOMACH AND INTESTINAL MOVEMENTS 

The muscular movements of digestion begin in the mouth 
with chewing; they continue with wave-like contractions 
down the esophagus until the food is deposited in the 
stomach. During the process of eating, the stomach is in 
a relaxed and quiet state. At the conclusion of the meal, 
the stomach is divided by a constriction ring into two por- 
tions: Starch digestion continues in the fundus or reser- 
voir end; while contractions appear in the other (pyloric) 
end in about five minutes after the meal. Contraction waves 
travel from the constriction ring of the stomach toward the 



76 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

pylorus, or outlet, every ten seconds, each wave requiring 
thirty-six seconds three hundred and sixty waves per 
hour. Fifteen minutes after the first contraction, food be- 
gins to squirt through the pylorus. The action of the pylorus 
in permitting the digested and liquid portions of the stom- 
ach's contents to regularly escape is greatly interfered 
with when hard particles or unmasticated masses of food 
are brought in contact with the outlet. These solid or semi- 
solid substances, upon coming in contact with the pyloric 
opening, set up more or less of a spasm the pylorus con- 
tracts down and for some time following opens much less 
regularly and frequently. As previously noted, this inter- 
ference with the food passing out of the stomach may persist 
for from a few minutes up to half an hour. The stomach 
performs about three thousand distinct muscular contrac- 
tions in emptying itself. 

In the intestine a rhythmic segmentation or chopping 
movement takes place about thirty times per minute. 
The slender string of food may undergo division more 
than a thousand times without moving onward. Every now 
and then the intestines execute an onward peristaltic move- 
ment. The intestines also execute a general swaying move- 
ment. The little suction pumps or vitti of the bowel, esti- 
mated to be about ten million in number, dip down into the 
digested food-mass hundreds of times, and thus the process 
of absorption progresses as the food-mass is slowly moved 
along the digestive tube. 

These movements continue all along the small intestine 
until the food reaches the large bowel; then we have what 
is called " reverse peristalsis," that is movements which 
force the food back toward the small intestine and thus pro- 
long its stay in the large bowel for purposes of absorption. 
Now and then this reverse movement is suspended and there 
is a true peristaltic movement in the large intestine which 
passes the food residue along toward the rectum. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 

ASSIMILATION OF FOOD. ELIMINATION OF BODY WASTES. THE 
ELEMENTS OF NUTRITION. PROTEINS. STARCHES. FRUIT 
SUGARS. FATS. MINERAL SALTS. CELLULOSE. WATER. AN- 
IMAL HEAT. DAILY FOOD REQUIREMENTS. EXPLANATION OF 

FOOD TABLES. DAILY FOOD REQUIREMENTS, TABLE No. I. DAILY 
FOOD REQUIREMENTS, TABLE No. 2. SUGGESTIVE BILLS OF FARE, 

TABLE No. 3. 

THE process of digestion represents but one step in the 
great work of converting the food substances into 
blood, bone, and muscle. Absorption, assimilation, and ox- 
idation are all parts of the great cycle through which the 
food passes on its way from the table to the tissues. 
Elimination is the last step in nutrition the body ridding 
itself of the broken-down cells and poisonous wastes. These 
various phases of bodily nutrition may be expressed in a 
single term metabolism. 

Both the quality and quantity of the material entering 
into the structure of the human body are important. If 
you were erecting a beautiful mansion, you would not think 
of allowing cheap, trashy, and inferior building materials 
to enter into the construction of your home. Neither 
should you permit unfit and inferior materials to become a 
part of your daily diet, and thus enter into the structure of 
the physical body. 

ASSIMILATION OF FOOD 

Following the process of digestion in the stomach and in- 
testine, the food elements are absorbed through the wall of 
the bowel, and distributed by various routes to the body. 

77 



78 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

The sugars (all starches are changed into sugar) are car- 
ried in the portal blood-stream to the liver, where they are 
stored in the form of glycogen. The liver deals out this 
glycogen to the body from hour to hour as it is needed for 
fuel. If all the sugar, after a hearty meal, were poured 
into the circulation at once, the blood-stream would be over- 
whelmed and the kidneys would be forced to excrete it in 
the urine. This unnecessary waste is avoided by the liver's 
storing sugar after each meal and doling it out to the body 
as required. 

Likewise the proteins also pass through the liver on their 
way to the body. Just what action the liver exerts upon 
proteins is not wholly known at the present writing. The 
digested fats are absorbed at once by the lacteals, the be- 
ginnings of the intestinal lymphatic system, by which they 
are carried to the large veins at the root of the neck and 
there emptied into the blood-stream. We have now traced 
our various food elements through the processes of diges- 
tion and absorption in the alimentary tract, some going 
through the liver, and others through the lymphatic sys- 
tem, until they are now circulating in the blood-stream. 

It is from these food substances circulating in the blood- 
stream, that the various cells of the body must assimilate 
into themselves such portions as they require for purposes 
of heat and energy and for the repair of their cell substance. 
Cell assimilation converts the liquid blood into solid tissue, 
exactly reversing the process of digestion. From the varied 
substances in the nourishing blood-stream, each little cell 
intelligently selects those elements especially suited to its 
work and structure. The mysteries of assimilation are ef- 
fected by means of various enzymes similar to those found 
in the digestive organs, but acting in an entirely different 
manner, in that they build up solids out of liquids instead of 
converting solids into liquids. 

ELIMINATION OF BODY WASTES 

Metabolism consists in an up-building and a tearing-down 
process. After the food is all digested, absorbed, and assim- 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 79 

ilated, having become a part of the body, then begins the 
work of tearing it down of liberating its heat and energy 
to be followed by its elimination from the body. The car- 
bohydrates (starches and sugars) together with the fats, 
are completely burned up in the body and are then elimi- 
nated in the form of water and carbonic acid gas (CO 2 ). 
The proteins, or nitrogenous foods, are not so completely 
burned in the body. The ashes which result from their 
combustion are not simple substances like the water and 
CO 2 of the carbohydrates. On the other hand the pro- 
tein ash is represented by a number of complicated sub- 
stances, some of which are solid. When these protein clink- 
ers accumulate in the body, they aid in causing many dis- 
eases, such as rheumatism, gout, headache, biliousness, etc. 
These protein ashes and clinkers are further acted upon 
by the liver split up and sifted and are finally elimi- 
nated by the kidneys in the form of urea, uric acid, etc. 
The body is unable to store up proteins. When one eats 
more of this substance than is daily required to replenish 
the waste of the body, it must be immediately split up in 
the system, and its irritating ashes carried off by the elimi- 
nating organs. The overeating of sugars, starches, or fats 
is not such a serious matter, as they may be stored in the 
liver and subsequently used; and even if they are eaten in 
excess of what the liver can care for, they accumulate as 
fat or add extra fuel to the fires of the body, their ashes 
being carried off in the form of such harmless substances as 
water and carbon dioxid (CO 2 ). 

THE ELEMENTS OF NUTRITION 

There are seven elements entering into the composition 
of human food: Protein, starch, sugar, fat, salts, cellulose, 
and water. These elements are all variously concerned in 
the nourishment, energizing, and warming of the body. Be- 
fore entering further upon the study of metabolism, it will 
be in place to consider separately these food elements and 
their places in bodily nutrition. 

Proteins. The proteins are the structure-builders of the 



80 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

body. Under certain circumstances, a portion of the pro- 
teins may be used for fuel, provided there is either an over- 
abundant supply of this food substance in the blood-stream, 
or a lack of the ordinary fuel substances, as in case of 
starvation. It is very necessary to have the proper amount 
of protein each day, but an over-supply is highly injurious 
to the body. It is highly important that the protein element 
of the food should be properly balanced in its relation to the 
non-protein elements. While starches, fats, and sugars may 
be compared to the coal that feeds the locomotive, the pro- 
teins represent the iron and steel that are used from time to 
time to repair the engine and replace its worn parts. The 
essential chemical difference between starch and protein is 
that the latter contains nitrogen and a small amount of sul- 
phur and phosphorus. The most common forms in which 
protein is used for food are the glutens of the grains, the 
legumes, nuts, cheese, the white of egg, and lean meat. 

There are numerous substances in Nature similar to pro- 
tein, but which the human body cannot use for food. These 
substances are called albuminoids and are represented by 
gelatine, mushrooms, as well as a small per cent of most 
animal and vegetable proteins. 

Starches. The starches are the most abundant of all 
elements in human food. They enter largely into the com- 
position of nearly all plants and seeds. Under the influence 
of the sunlight, the green-colored plants gather up the CO 2 
of the air and, with the water absorbed from the ground, 
build up starch. The plant takes all the carbon from which 
starch is made, from the air, but while the atmosphere con- 
tains almost 80 per cent of nitrogen, the plant is unable to 
use it. It must secure its nitrogen from the decaying re- 
fuse of the soil. Thus the plant utilizes the waste prod- 
ucts found in air and earth in the building of its food sub- 
stances. (When inoculated with certain germs, clover and 
leguminous plants are able to appropriate the nitrogen of the 
atmosphere.) 

Starch exists in the form of small granules. Each little 
starch granule is surrounded by a woody envelope of cel- 
lulose. It is necessary to cook all starches thoroughly, in 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 8l 

order to burst this cellulose covering and thus enable the 
saliva to begin its work of digestion. All the cereals, breads, 
breakfast foods, legumes, etc., are about three-fourths starch. 

Fruit sugars. The sugar of fruits represents a form of 
food requiring no digestion, while the sugar found in beets, 
the cane plant, and the maple tree, must be acted upon by 
the digestive juices of the intestine before they can be ab- 
sorbed. During the winter, the maple tree stores its carbo- 
hydrates in the roots in the form of starch. With the advent 
of spring, Nature begins the digestion of this starch actu- 
ally turns it into sugar, and in the form of the sweet sap, it 
is carried up into the tree trunk to be deposited in the leaves 
and bark in the form of cellulose, a process very similar to 
that performed by digestion in the human body, where 
starch is first turned into sugar, and afterwards deposited 
in another form in the liver and muscles. 

Dextrine is a form of sugar resulting from thoroughly 
cooking or partially digesting starch. There are about 
twenty-five stages or forms of dextrine between raw starch 
and digested starch or fruit sugar. Dextrine is found in 
the brown-colored portions of well-toasted bread. The 
sweet flavor of the Zwieback twice baked bread is due 
to this form of sugar. 

Fats. Fat is a combination of glycerine and certain fatty 
acids. As a food, it is derived from both the animal and 
the vegetable kingdom. Animal fat consists of lard, suet, 
fat meat, etc., while fat of animal origin is represented by 
cream, butter, and eggs. The vegetable fats are found in 
nuts, especially the pecan, cocoanut, Brazil, and pine nuts; 
also in the grains, particularly oats and corn. The peanut 
also contains a considerable amount of fat. Of the fruits, 
the banana and strawberry contain a trace of fat, while the 
olive is the only fruit rich in fat. 

As a food, fat is used in three forms. The emulsified 
form is represented by cream, olive oil, and nuts. When 
the tiny globules of fat, which are each surrounded by a 
little film of casein, are crushed united into a solid mass 
we have a free fat. This form is represented by butter 
6 



82 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

and other animal fats. Another form is fried fat fat 
which has been chemically changed by heat with the de- 
velopment of certain irritating acids. 

Mineral salts. The mineral elements comprise but a 
small part of human food as regards weight, but they are 
extremely important to the health of the body. As found 
in the body, they are not in the form of dead mineral salts, 
like common table salt; the salts of food are living salts 
organic or organized salts such as are found in the growing 
plant. These salts are of great value to the various fluids 
of the body, and also as stimulants to nerve action, but more 
particularly in the work of building up the bones. 

The plants take the dead mineral elements and organize 
them into vegetable salts, in which form they are suitable 
for animal food. It is a great mistake to undertake to 
nourish the body by administering salts such as iron, phos- 
phorus, and even the ordinary table salt (sodium chlorid) 
is of doubtful nutritive value. These mineral salts may 
serve a valuable purpose in the body by protecting the more 
important animal and vegetable salts, which would other- 
wise be used up in certain chemical changes which take place 
in the intestines and elsewhere in the body. 

Salts are found largely in the cereals. A small amount 
is also found in vegetables, particularly the potato, as well 
as in most fruits. 

Cellulose. Cellulose represents the great bulk of all veg- 
etables and fruits. It is digested by most animals, but in 
man it is digested only to the extent of about 30 per 
cent. The presence of a large amount of cellulose in the 
food enables us often to satisfy the appetite without injury 
from overeating. It serves to give bulk to the food, and 
thereby possibly acts as a preventive of constipation. The 
secretion of the intestinal juices and the intestinal move- 
ments are greatly favored by the cellulose-bulk of the 
food. Too much cellulose in the food favors intestinal fer- 
mentation, as this food element is largely acted upon by the 
germs which live in the bowel-tract. The principal part of 
the bran of wheat is cellulose. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 83 

Water. Water fills an important place in the nutrition 
of the body. The food changes in connection with diges- 
tion, assimilation, and elimination, can take place only in 
the presence of water. Water constitutes from 15 to 
95 per cent of the various foods. The watery juices of 
vegetables and fruits consist largely of pure distilled water, 
in which fruit sugar is dissolved, with added flavoring sub- 
stances. Water is absolutely essential to the performance 
of every vital function connected with human metabolism. 

ANIMAL HEAT 

The source of heat in the animal body was the subject 
of much superstitious speculation on the part of ancient 
scientists. It is now known that animal heat is derived from 
food by means of a peculiar process of vital oxidation 
effected, in the presence of oxygen, by the action of water 
and enzymes upon the food elements absorbed by the living 
cell. This process of oxidation liberates the heat and energy 
stored by the sun in the food, and thus the body is kept 
warm by this constant combustion of the digested foodstuffs. 
The starches and sugars, together with the fats, represent 
food elements which serve as the body's fuel. By this 
means, man is able to maintain a constant body temperature 
of almost one hundred degrees. 

The average human body produces enough heat every 
hour to raise two and one-half pounds of water from the 
freezing point to the boiling point. This is equivalent to 
boiling about seven gallons of ice-water every twenty-four 
hours. Differently expressed, the body gives off each hour 
the same amount of heat as a foot and a half of two-inch 
steam coil. This is the same amount of heat which would 
be produced by burning about two-thirds of a pound of coal. 
The body consumes itself at the rate of one-eightieth of its 
weight every twenty-four hours. In starvation death oc- 
curs when the body has consumed one-half its weight. 

The fuel and energy value of the different food elements 
(water-free) is as follows: 



84 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

i gram of Carbohydrates (starch or sugar) 4.1 calories or 

heat units 

i " " Protein 4.1 

I " " Fat 9-3 

Expressed in terms of English weight, the fuel value of 
the three different food elements would be: 

i ounce of Carbohydrates 127.5 Calories 

I " " Proteins 127.5 

i " " Fat 289.2 

It will be observed that fat contains more than twice as 
much heat as the carbohydrates. This is due to the fact 
that fat contains more carbon than either starch or sugar. 
Next to fats, starches and sugars are the most important 
fuel elements. Protein is a very extravagant form of food 
for fuel purposes. Proteins are the most expensive ele- 
ments of human food; they are incompletely burned in the 
body, and inasmuch as they leave behind distressing and 
disease-producing ashes, it is clearly evident that only a 
sufficient amount of proteins should be eaten each day to 
supply the demand of the body for repairs. We should de- 
pend upon the carbohydrates and fats for heat and energy. 
The term calorie, so frequently used in expressing the fuel 
value of foods, signifies the amount of heat required to raise 
one kilogram of water one degree centigrade. 

A large part of our food is required to furnish heat to 
take the place of that lost by radiation from the skin, and 
this is why children require more food than adults. They 
have a larger skin surface in proportion to their weight, and 
therefore lose more heat by radiation. 

DAILY FOOD REQUIREMENTS 

It is important that man should have a well-balanced 
ration. That is, his daily food should contain the proper 
amount of protein for the repair of the tissues, together with 
a suitable amount of starch, sugar, and fat to serve for the 
production of heat and energy. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 85 

As previously noted, the body is without power to store 
proteins if an excess of this element is eaten. The recent 
experiments of Professor Chittenden, of Yale University, 
have clearly demonstrated that the majority of civilized 
people are regularly eating more than twice the amount of 
protein required to nourish and sustain the body in a state 
of health. 

Why is it that the majority of civilized men and women 
habitually consume from two to three times the amount of 
protein required to replenish the broken-down tissues? The 
answer is found in the fact that when the human body is 
over-fed on proteins, it acquires extravagant habits in this 
respect. It develops what is known as the " protein habit." 
It learns how to dispose of this excess of protein, and grows 
so accustomed to the influence of these nitrogenous ashes 
and elements in the circulation, that there is developed a 
sort of protein tissue-intoxication. There can be little 
doubt also that this extravagant protein habit is somewhat 
hereditary, being handed down from one generation to 
another among the races which are habitually overfed. 
This also explains why some of the Oriental nations can 
maintain such good health on an extremely low protein 
allowance. 

The low protein diet favors recovery from many diseases, 
such as rheumatism, neuralgia, sick headaches, biliousness, 
and many forms of indigestion, constipation, etc. It also 
increases the resistance of the body to disease and other 
poisonous influences. 

The average man, weighing 150 pounds, requires about 
sixty grams (2 ounces) of protein a day for the proper sus- 
tenance of the body; that is, to replace the tissues which 
are worn out and destroyed by ordinary use. This is the 
conclusion reached by Professor Chittenden after long and 
laborious experimentation. He gives the following table, 
which represents the amount of various foods which will 
supply sixty grams (2 ounces) of protein, also the num- 
ber of calories to be found in this amount of the various 
foods : 



86 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

SIXTY GRAMS (2 OUNCES) OF PROTEIN ARE CONTAINED IN 

Food Value * 

One-half pound fresh lean beef, loin 308 Calories 

Nine hen's eggs 720 " 

Four-fifths pound sweetbread 660 " 

Three-fourths pound fresh liver 432 " 

Seven-eighths pound lean smoked bacon 1820 " 

Three-fourths pound halibut steak 423 

One-half pound salt codfish, boneless 245 " 

Two and one-fifth pounds oysters, solid 506 " 

One-half pound American pale cheese 1027 " 

Four pounds whole milk (two quarts) 1300 

Five-sixths pound uncooked oatmeal 1550 " 

One and one-fourth pounds shredded wheat 2125 " 

One pound uncooked macaroni 1665 

One and one-third pounds white wheat bread 1520 " 

One and one- fourth pounds crackers 2381 

One and two-thirds pounds flaked rice 2807 " 

One and seven-eighths pounds baked beans 1125 " 

Three-fifths pound dried beans 963 

One-half pound dried peas 827 " 

One and eleven-twelfths pounds potato chips 5128 

Two-thirds pound almonds 2020 

Two-fifths pound pine nuts, pignolias 1138 

One and two-fifths pounds peanuts 3584 

Ten pounds bananas, edible portion 4600 

Ten pounds grapes 4500 

Eleven pounds lettuce 990 

Fifteen pounds prunes 5550 * 

Thirty-three pounds apples 9570 " 

The average adult requires a daily food supply which will 
furnish the body with from 1,500 to 2,500 calories. The size 
of the individual, the season of the year, the nature of his 
work, etc., are all concerned in the amount of food required 
to furnish the heat and energy needed for 24 hours. As a 
general rule, the average man or woman doing ordinary work 
in ordinary weather, will get along nicely on a daily ration 

* The fuel value of the quantity required to furnish 2 ounces 
of protein. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 87 

which will supply about 2,000 calories. These 2,000 calories 
should be divided between the different food elements about 
as follows: 

1. Proteins: 200 calories (about i ounces). 

2. Fats : 700 calories (about 2$ ounces). 

3. Carbohydrates (starch and sugar) : 1,100 calories 

(about 9 ounces). 

To secure 2,000 calories as above outlined would require 
about 13 ounces of solid water-free food; but as our 
various food substances contain from 15 to 90 per cent of 
water, it will be necessary to use from 30 to 40 ounces of 
ordinary mixed-diet foods to get 13 ounces of real solid, 
water-free food elements. The suggestive bills of fare at 
the end of this chapter average about 24 ounces or i l / 2 
pounds of food as it appears on the table. Reference to 
food tables at the end of this chapter will show the num- 
ber of ounces of the various foodstuffs required to furnish 
the desired number of . calories for the daily diet. Table 
No. 4 gives a rough estimate of the amount of food required 
to yield 100 calories, and will be found of practical con- 
venience in estimating the quantity of food eaten. 

Of the total food supply about one-tenth should consist 
of protein; that is, one part of protein to about nine or ten 
parts of all the other food elements starches, sugars, fats, 
salts, and cellulose. 

The following general formula (after Gautier) will en- 
able any one to find out the number of calories he should eat 
every twenty- four hours: 

1. From your height in inches subtract 42. The remain- 
der, multiplied by $y 2 , will give the number of pounds you 
should weigh; that is, the average person of your height 
weighs that much. 

2. Your skin area is determined by your weight and 
height. (Average is 17 sq. ft.) The skin area should be 
multiplied by 80. Your weight (that is, what you should 
weigh according to your height) is multiplied by 4.25. The 
sum of these two products, gives the number of calories 



88 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

you require every 24 hours.. For example: Take a man 
66 inches in height and weighing 132 pounds, having a 
skin area of 17 square feet. Multiply the skin area, 17 by 
80 equals 1360. Now, multiply his standard weight (ac- 
cording to height) 132 pounds by the factor 4.25 equals 
561. Then add together these two products, 561 and 1360 
equals 1921, the calories required every 24 hours. 

Persons engaged in active muscular work require more 
food than the average allowance; for such the weight of 
the body should be multiplied by the factor 7 instead of 
4.25. In cold weather out-of-door workmen may require 
as high as 3,000 calories a day to sustain the body. 

Another method of estimating the daily protein require- 
ment is as follows: 1-80 of an ounce of protein is needed 
for each pound of body weight. This is equal to i l / 2 cal- 
ories per pound of body weight. 

EXPLANATION OF FOOD TABLES 

Table No. I gives the age, height in inches, and what 
should be the average weight, as well as the skin surface, of 
boys and girls from 5 to 12 years of age, and also the num- 
ber of food calories required to nourish, energize, and heat 
the body for 24 hours, as determined by the formula of an 
eminent French dietitian. By referring to the food tables, 
it can be easily reckoned how much of any kind of food, or 
of any sort of combination of foods, will yield these re- 
quired calories. 

Table No. 2 gives the height, weight, skin surface, and 
calories required by men and women men ranging from 
62 to 74 inches in height; women from 57 to 72 inches. In 
this table the daily calories are subdivided into three sep- 
arate columns, the daily requirements of proteins, fats, and 
carbohydrates (starch and sugar) being shown separately. 
The body weights of this table are based on data obtained 
in France, and are probably a trifle low for the average 
American. A variation of 10 to 15 per cent must be al- 
lowed for personal or family peculiarities in respect to flesh 
and height. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 89 

Table No. 3 consists of sample menus ten for breakfast 
and ten for dinner. These suggestive bills of fare have 
been arranged upon the plan of two meals a day; therefore 
about 1,000 calories are provided for each meal. If three 
meals a day are eaten, the average person would need to 
subtract enough from these two bills of fare to make the 
third meal. 

These sample bills of fare are constructed after the die- 
tetic practices of the middle classes and are not designed 
to represent the ideal of any special system of diet, but 
rather to give the reader an idea of the amount of the 
various foods commonly eaten which will provide him with 
proper nourishment for one day. 

These sample menus are constructed without flesh foods 
eggs, nuts, and legumes being used in the place of meat. 
Our purpose in doing this is to demonstrate that wholesome 
meals can be built out of the common every-day-used food- 
stuffs, which will be well balanced, highly nutritious, simple, 
and fairly well combined, even if meats are entirely dis- 
carded. If it is desired to use any form of flesh food in 
these menus, it may be substituted for the eggs, nuts, or 
legumes, after consulting the food tables contained in the 
appendix to ascertain the amount equivalent to the calories 
required. 

It is not claimed that these menus are technically correct 
as regards absolute accuracy in the combination of proteins, 
fats, and carbohydrates, as they are built along the lines of 
general dietetic practice except that eggs, etc., are sub- 
stituted for meats the purpose being to show how to com- 
bine and how much to use of the ordinary foods one is ac- 
customed to eating. 

Table No. 4 gives a list of commonly used foods, as or- 
dinarily prepared and served on the table, with a rough es- 
timate or measurement of a " standard portion," that is, a 
portion containing approximately 100 calories. This table 
is designed to be of practical assistance to those who are 
desirous of knowing just about how many calories they are 
taking at any one meal. 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

TABLE NO. I 
DAILY FOOD REQUIREMENT 

BOYS 







Skin 


Daily 


Age 


Height in Weight in 


Surface in 


Calories or 


Years 


Inches Pounds 


Sq. ft. Food Units 


5 


41.57 41.09 


7-9 


816.2 


6 


43-75 45-17 


8.3 


855.9 


7 


45-74 49.07 


8.8 


912.4 


8 


47-76 53.92 


9-4 


981.1 


9 


49.69 59.23 


9-9 


10437 


10 


51.58 65.30 


10.5 


1117-5 


ii 


53-33 70.18 


II.O 


1178.2 


12 


55.11 76.92 


11.6 


1254.8 


13 


57.21 84.85 


12.4 


1352.6 


14 


59.88 94-91 


134 


I47L3 




GIRLS 






5 


41.29 39-66 


7-7 


7845 


6 


43-35 43.28 


8.1 


831-9 


7 


45-52 4746 


8-5 


881.7 


8 


47.58 52.04 


9.2 


957-1 


9 


49.37 57.07 


97 


1018.5 


10 


51-34 62.35 


10.2 


1081.0 


ii 


53.42 68.84 


10.7 


1148.5 


12 


55.88 78.31 


n.8 


1276.8 




TABLE NO. 


II 




DAILY FOOD REQUIREMENT 




MEN 








Calories 


or Food Units 






Skin 




Total 


Height 


Weight in Surface in 


Carbohy- 


Daily 


in In. 


Pounds Sq.ft. Proteins 


Fats drates 


Calories 


62 


no.o 15.1 165 


378 1132 


1675 


63 


H5.5 15-6 173 


391 1175 


1739 


64 


121.0 16.2 181 


407 1222 


1810 


65 


126.5 16.6 190 


419 1256 


1865 


66 


132.0 17.0 198 


431 1292 


1921 


67 


137.5 17-4 206 


442 1328 


1976 


68 


143.0 17.8 215 


454 1363 


2032 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 



Skin 

Height Weight in Surface in 
in In. Pounds 



Calories or Food Units 



Carbohy- 
Sq. ft. Proteins Fats drates 



69 


148.5 


18.2 


222 


466 


1399 


70 


154-0 


18.6 


231 


478 


1433 


7i 


159-5 


18.9 


239 


487 


1463 


72 


165.0 


19-3 


247 


499 


1499 


73 


170.5 


19.7 


255 


5n 


1534 


74 


176.0 


2O.2 


264 


525 


1575 



WOMEN 



Total 

Daily 

Calories 

2087 
2142 
2189 
2245 
2300 
2364 



57 


78-4 


11.9 


118 


278 


833 


1229 


58 


83.6 


12.5 


125 


308 


922 


1355 


59 


88.8 


12.9 


132 


3i9 


958 


1409 


60 


94-1 


13-4 


141 


335 


1005 


1481 


61 


99.2 


13-9 


149 


349 


1045 


1543 


62 


104.5 


14.4 


156 


360 


1080 


1596 


63 


109.3 


15.0 


163 


375 


1126 


1664 


64 


115.0 


15-6 


172 


39i 


1174 


1737 


65 


120.2 


16.0 


180 


402 


1208 


1790 


66 


125-4 


16.5 


187 


416 


1249 


1852 


67 


130.7 


16.9 


195 


428 


1283 


1906 


68 


137.0 


17.4 


205 


442 


1327 


1974 


69 


143.0 


17.8 


215 


454 


1363 


2032 


70 


149.0 


18.2 


223 


467 


1399 


2089 


7i 


155.0 


18.6 


232 


479 


1436 


2147 


72 


161.0 


19.0 


241 


491 


1472 


2204 



TABLE NO. Ill 
SUGGESTIVE BILLS OF FARE 

(For one person, two meals a day.) 

These menus are designed to furnish about 1,000 calories 
for each meal 2,000 calories every twenty- four hours. 
This plan is based on the practice of two meals a day. 
Sedentary and inactive persons will do well on 1,500 calories 
a day, and therefore would reduce the quantity of these bills 
of fare about 25 per cent. The author, during the period 
of writing this book, did his customary professional and 
lecture work, and gained slightly in weight on less than 
2,ooo calories a day. Individuals weighing over 165 pounds 



9 2 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



and engaged in active out-of-door physical labor especially 
during the winter would often need to increase these 
menus by the addition of 500 calories, or about 25 per 
cent. 

Many of these menus contain a greater variety than the 
author is in the habit of consuming at a single meal, but 
they probably represent as small a variety as the average in- 
dividual will be well satisfied with. The ounces and cal- 
ories are given in whole numbers, and the rough estimate 
of " portions " is given in approximate terms. These bills 
of fare are intended for practical use in the kitchen and 
dining room and while they are relatively correct, they are 
not technically precise. All the menus are planned to run a 
little over 1,000 calories in order to allow for a five or ten 
per cent waste food not eaten. The amounts here given 
are for one person. For two or three persons these amounts 
may be doubled or trebled. 



BREAKFAST MENUS 



Breakfast No. I. Ounces. 

Apples 5 

Bananas 3 

Graham mush with dates 5 

Cream 3 

Dried peas puree 4 

Zwieback 3 

Butter y-2 

Celery 5 



Total 

Breakfast No. 2. 

Grape fruit with sugar . 4 

Cornmeal mush, baked . . 4 

Maple syrup 2 

Creamed potatoes 5 

Cottage cheese 3 

Bread 4 

Butter 



" Portion " 

Estimated. Calories. 

Large apple 100 

One banana 100 

One serving . . . . : 100 

H glass . . . 200 

One serving 100 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 

Three stalks 25 



Total 



1,025 



y 2 grape fruit 100 

One serving 100 

Six teaspoonfuls 150 

Two small servings .... 200 

Four cubic inches 100 

Three thick slices 300 

One square 100 



Total 



Total 



1,050 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 



93 



Breakfast No. 3. Ounces 

Oranges ................. 5 

Scrambled eggs ......... 5 

Potato cakes ............ 3 

Stewed raisins .......... 3 

Milk .................... 4 

Bread ................... 4 

Butter ..... .............. l / 2 



Total 
Breakfast No. 4. 

Grape fruit with sugar . . 4 

Toasted corn flakes ..... 3 

Cream .................. 4 

Stewed corn ............ 6 

Pecan nuts .............. I 

Whole wheat puffs ...... i 



Butter 



Total itf/2 

Breakfast No. 5. 

Oranges 5 

Egg omelet 5 

Baked potatoes 6 

Oatmeal mush 7 

Cream I 

Bread 4 

Butter ]/2 

Total 2&/ 2 

Breakfast No. 6. 

Fresh peaches 6 

Asparagus on toast 4 

Hot milk 4 

Crackers : . . I 

Corn bread 3 

Butter y 2 

Mixed nuts I 

Ripe olives 2 



" Portion " 

Estimated. Calories. 

One large 100 

Two eggs 200 

Two small cakes 100 

One serving 200 

One glass 100 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 

Total 1,100 

y 2 grape fruit 100 

Three servings 300 

One small glass 300 

Two servings 100 

Fifteen nuts 200 

Three puffs 100 



l /2 One square .". . 100 



Total 1,200 

One large 100 

Two eggs 200 

Two average 150 

i l / 2 serving 100 

l /4 glass 100 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 



Total 



[,050 



Three ordinary 100 

One piece 150 

One glass 100 

Three large square .... 150 

Two squares 200 

One square 100 

Ten assorted 200 

Seven olives . 100 



Total 



.2154 



Total 



[,IOO 



94 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



Breakfast No. 7. Ounces 

Fresh pears ............. 5 

Wheat flakes ............ 2 

Cream ................... I 

Soft boiled eggs ........ 4 

Bread ................... 3 

Butter ................... l / 2 

Baked apples ........... 3 

Total 



Breakfast No. 8. 

Sliced pineapple ........ 3 

Poached eggs ........... 4 

Baked potatoes ......... 3 

Corn puffs ............. 3 

Butter ................... l / 2 

Stewed prunes .......... 4 

Whipped cream ......... I 

Cereal coffee, sugar and 

cream ................. 4 

Total ............... 22*6 

Breakfast No. 9. 

Bananas ................ 3 

Blueberry toast ......... 3 

Poached eggs ........... 4 

Baked potatoes ......... 3 

Corn puffs .............. 3 

Butter ................... y 2 

Milk .................... 4 

Total ............... 20% 

Breakfast No. 10. 

Cantaloupe .............. 8 

Cream toast ............. 3 

Rice flakes ............. 2 

Cream .................. I 

Steamed figs ........... 4 

Bread ................... i 

Butter .................. Yt 

Total 



" Portion " 

Estimated. Calories. 

One large 100 

Two servings 200 

1 A glass 100 

Two eggs 200 

Two slices 200 

One square 100 

One large apple 100 

Total 1,000 

One serving 50 

Two eggs 200 

One large 100 

Five puffs 200 

One square 100 

Six prunes 100 

One large serving 100 

One large cup 100 

Total 950 

One large 100 

One slice 150 

Two eggs 200 

One large 100 

Five puffs 200 

One square 100 

One glass 100 

Total 950 

l /2 average 100 

One piece 150 

Two servings 200 

1 A glass loo 

Four average 300 

One slice 100 

y 2 square 50 

Total 1,000 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 



95 



DINNER MENUS 



Dinner No. i. Ounces 

Dried peas puree ........ 4 

Creamed potatoes ....... 6 

Cauliflower .............. 3 

Toasted bread .......... 3 

Butter ................... 1 A 

Lettuce salad ........... 4 

Mayonnaise dressing ..... I 

Apple pie .............. 3 

Total 

Dinner No. 2. 
Soup, tomato-vermicelli 
Egg omelet 
Baked potatoes 
String beans 
Whole wheat puffs 
Butter 
Beet salad 
Apple tart dessert 
Sponge cake 
Total 



Dinner No. 3. 

Lentil savory roast ..... 3 

Tomato macaroni ....... 7 

Corn puffs .............. 3 

Butter ................... Y-2. 

Celery .................. 5 

Pecan nuts ............. i l / 2 

Custard pie ............. 3 

Total ................ 23 

Dinner No. 4. 

Cream of rice soup ..... 5 

Steamed potatoes and 

gravy ................. 6 

Cottage cheese ........... 3 

Spinach ................. 4 

Fruit buns .............. 3 



" Portion " 

Estimated Calories 

One serving 100 

Two large servings .... 300 

One serving 25 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 

Two servings 25 

Ordinary serving 50 

One piece 250 

Total 1,150 

One plate 50 

Two eggs 200 

Two average 150 

Two servings 50 

Six puffs 200 

One square 100 

One serving 50 

One apple 100 

One small piece 100 

Total 1,000 

One serving 100 

Two servings 200 

Five puffs 200 

One square 100 

Three stalks 25 

Twenty nuts 300 

One piece 250 

Total 1,175 

Ordinary plate 100 

One serving 150 

Four cubic inches 100 

One serving 50 

Two buns 300 



9 6 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



Dinner No. . (continued). 

Ounces 
Butter .................. Y* 

Ripe olives .............. 3 

Tapioca pudding ....... 3 

Total .............. .2754 

Dinner No. 5. 

Sliced protose .......... 4 

Fresh tomatoes, sliced . . 4 
Whole wheat crackers 

toasted ................ 3 

Peanut butter ........... V* 

Fresh peaches, sliced ---- 5 

Blanched almonds ....... I 

Un fermented grape juice 4 



Total ................ 2i l / 2 

Dinner No. 6. 

Cream of corn soup ---- 5 

Protose steak ............ 4 

Mashed potatoes ........ 6 

Graham bread .......... 4 

Butter ................... Yi 

Nut and fruit salad ...... 3 

Bread pudding ......... 3 

Total .............. .25^ 

Dinner No. 7. 

Sweet potatoes, baked . . 5 

Stewed lima beans ...... 4 

Fresh tomatoes, sliced . . 7 

Graham gems .......... 3 

Butter ................... Y* 

Rice pudding with fruit 

Jelly .................. 3 

Layer cake .............. 3 

Total .............. ..25^ 

Dinner No. 8. 

Vegetable soup .......... 5 

Baked beans ............ 5 



" Portion " 

Estimated Calories 

One-half square 50 

Ten large 150 

One serving 100 

Total 1,000 



Two slices 200 

One tomato 25 

Eight square 400 

One serving 75 

Two peaches 75 

Fifteen nuts 200 

One glass 100 

Total 1,075 

Ordinary plate 100 

Two slices 200 

Two servings 200 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 

One dish 125 

Small dish 125 

Total T. 1,150 



Two large 250 

One serving 100 

Two tomatoes 50 

Five gems 200 

One square 100 

One dish 150 

One piece 200 

Total 1,050 



One plate 50 

One serving 200 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 



97 



Dinner No. 8 (continued). 
Ounces 

Corn bread 5 

Butter l /2 

Buttermilk 4 

Cabbage salad 6 

Pumpkin pie 3 

Total" ..28^ 

Dinner No. 9. 

Baked potatoes 8 

Brown gravy 3 

Poached eggs 4 

Bread, white 4 

Butter y 2 

Fresh apples 5 

Total ..24 l / 2 

Dinner No. 10. 

Boiled or steamed rice . . 4 

Fresh asparagus (creamed) 4 

Bread 4 

Butter y 2 

Mixed nuts 2 

Fruit salad 5 

Total 



" Portion " 
Estimated Calories 

Three squares 300 

One square 100 

One large glass 75 

Two servings 50 

One piece 250 

Total 1,025 

Two large 200 

Two servings 50 

Two eggs 200 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 

Two average 150 

Total 1,000 

One cereal dish 100 

One large serving 100 

Three slices 300 

One square 100 

Twenty nuts 400 

Large serving 50 

Total 1,050 



FOOD TABLE NO. IV 

TABLE OF COMMONLY USED FOODS, GIVING ROUGH 
ESTIMATE OR MEASUREMENT OF A " STANDARD 
PORTION," THAT IS, A PORTION CONTAINING 100 
CALORIES 



Name of Food 



" Portions " containing 100 
Calories roughly described. 



CEREALS 

Bread, brown or graham Ordinary thick slice 

Bread, corn Small square. 

Bread, home made Ordinary slice. 

Bread, white or whole wheat .. .Ordinary thick slice. 

Corn flakes, toasted One ordinary cereal dish full 

(level). 



98 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



Portions " containing 100 
Name of Food Calodes roughly describc(L 



CEREALS (continued) 

Cornmeal mush One large serving. 

Cornstarch One ordinary serving. 

Crackers, graham or white 

(square) Two large square crackers. 

Crackers, oatmeal (square) ....Two large square crackers. 
Crackers, ordinary soda (round) Eight round crackers. 

Cracked wheat One serving. 

Farina One serving. 

Graham gems or puffs Three gems or puffs. 

Granose biscuits Three biscuits. 

Hominy, cooked Large serving. 

Macaroni, cooked Ordinary serving. 

Oatmeal mush One and one-half serving. 

Rice, boiled Ordinary cereal dish. 

Rice flakes Ordinary cereal dish. 

Rice, puffed Two servings. 

Rolls, Vienna One large roll. 

Shredded wheat One biscuit. 

Wheat flakes, toasted One large serving. 

Zwieback One thick slice. 

FRUITS 

Apple juice One large glass. 

Apple sauce Ordinary serving. 

Apples, fresh or baked Two small or one very large. 

Apricots, cooked Large serving. 

Bananas One large 

Blackberries, fresh Two servings. 

Blackberry juice One large glass. 

Blackberry sauce One serving. 

Blueberry juice Two small glasses. 

Blueberry sauce One large serving. 

Cantaloupe Half ordinary serving. 

Cherries, fresh Two servings. 

Cherry sauce One serving. 

Cranberry sauce One serving. 

Dates Four large. 

Figs One large. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 99 



" Portions " containing 100 
Name of Food Calories roughly described 



FRUITS (continued) 

Fruit jelly One ordinary serving. 

Grape juice One small glass. 

Grape fruit (with sugar) One-half grape fruit. 

Grapes, fresh One average bunch. 

Lemonade Two small glasses. 

Olive oil One tablespoon ful. 

Olives, ripe Seven average olives. 

Orange juice One large glass. 

Oranges One very large. 

Peach juice One ordinary glass. 

Peach sauce Ordinary serving. 

Peaches Three ordinary. 

Pear juice One large glass. 

Pear sauce Ordinary serving. 

Pears One large. 

Pineapple sauce Two servings. 

Plum sauce One ordinary serving. 

Plums, fresh Three large (California). 

Prune marmalade Four tablespoonfuls. 

Prune sauce Six large prunes. 

Prunes, dried Three large. 

Raisins, stewed One half ordinary serving. 

Raspberries, fresh Two servings. 

Raspberry juice One large glass. 

Raspberry sauce One ordinary serving. 

Strawberries, fresh One serving (sugar and 

cream). 

Strawberries, raw Two servings. 

Strawberry sauce One serving. 

Tomatoes, breaded Two servings. 

Tomatoes, canned Four servings. 

Tomatoes, raw Four average (three large). 

Watermelon One ordinary piece. 

NUTS 

Almonds About eight. 

Brazil nuts Three ordinary size, 

Chestnuts . About twelve. 



100 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



, , " Portions " containing 100 

Name of Food Calories foughly described 

NUTS (continued) 

Cocoanut, prepared Ordinary serving. 

Filberts Ten nuts. 

Hickory nuts (large) About ten. 

Pecans About eight. 

Pine nuts About eighty. 

Walnuts, English About six. 



VEGETABLES. 
Asparagus, cooked, creamed . . . .One serving. 

Beans, baked A small side dish. 

Beans, Lima, green One large serving. 

Beans, string Five servings. 

Beets Three servings. 

Cabbage, boiled Four servings. 

Cabbage slaw (cream or lemon). Three servings. 

Carrots, creamed Two servings. 

Cauliflower, boiled Four servings. 

Celery, raw About twelve average stalks. 

Corn, sweet, stewed One ordinary serving. 

Cucumber, raw, sliced Five servings. 

Egg plant, fried Three servings. 

Greens, dandelion (lemon juice). Two large servings. 

Lettuce, salad Five or six servings. 

Onions, cooked Two large servings. 

Parsnips Two servings. 

Peas, green, creamed One serving. 

Peas, green, plain Two servings. 

Potatoes, baked One good size. 

Potatoes, boiled One large size. 

Potatoes, mashed, creamed One small serving. 

Potatoes, steamed One ordinary serving. 

Potatoes, sweet, boiled or baked. One medium potato. 

Pumpkin, cooked Two large servings 

Spinach, cooked Two ordinary servings. 

Squash, cooked Two ordinary servings. 

Succotash, canned One large serving. 

Turnips Three ordinary servings. 

Vegetable oysters, stewed Four servings. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 



IOI 



Name of Food 



" Portions " containing 100 
Calories roughly described. 



FLESH FOODS 
Beef, boiled (average lean) ....Large serving. 

Beef, boiled (average fat) Small serving. 

Beef, loin ( fat) Small serving. 

Beef, loin (lean) Ordinary serving. 

Beef, porterhouse steak Very small steak. 

Beef, ribs, boiled Small serving. 

Beef, sirloin steak Very small steak. 

Chicken (broilers) Large serving. 

Chicken, canned Two thin slices. 

Goose (young) Half serving. 

Halibut steak Ordinary serving. 

Lamb chops, broiled One small chop. 

Lamb, leg, roast Ordinary serving. 

Mutton, leg, boiled Large serving. 

Oysters, raw One dozen. 

Pork, bacon, smoked Small serving. 

Pork chops, cooked Small chop. 

Pork, ham, boiled (fat) Small serving. 

Pork, ham, roasted (lean) Small serving. 

Rabbit, cooked Small serving. 

Salmon Small serving. 

Trout (brook) Two small servings. 

Turkey Two small servings. 

Veal, leg, boiled Large serving. 

White fish, broiled Large serving. 

ANIMAL PRODUCTS 

Butter, creamery One ordinary square or ball. 

Buttermilk One and one-half glasses. 

Cheese, American, pale One and one-half cubic inches. 

Cheese, cottage Four cubic inches. 

Cheese, full cream One and one-half cubic inches. 

Cream One-fourth ordinary glass. 

Eggs, boiled One extra large egg. 

Eggs, large, whites Two whites. 

Eggs, large, yolks Two yolks. 

Milk, skimmed One and one-half glasses. 

Milk, whole One small glass. 

Whey ; . Two large glasses. 



102 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



" Portions " containing 100 
Name of Food Cak)ries foughly described 



LEGUMES 

Beans, baked Small side dish. 

Beans, Lima, canned Large side dish. 

Lentils, baked One serving. 

Peas, dried, cooked One large serving. 

Peanut butter One serving (little more than 

dairy butter). 
Peanuts Thirteen double. 

MISCELLANEOUS AND COOKED FOODS 

Cake, chocolate layer Half ordinary square piece. 

Cake, gingerbread Half ordinary square piece. 

Cake, sponge Small piece. 

Cereal coffee, sugar and cream .One cup. 

Cocoa, sugar and cream One cup. 

Custard, milk Ordinary cup. 

Custard, tapioca Two-thirds ordinary serving. 

Doughnuts Half a doughnut. 

Honey Four teaspoonfuls. 

Malted milk Two-thirds glass. 

Maple syrup Four teaspoonfuls. 

Pie, apple One-third ordinary piece. 

Pie, cream One-fourth ordinary piece. 

Pie, custard One-third ordinary piece. 

Pie, lemon One-third ordinary piece. 

Pie, pumpkin One-third ordinary piece. 

Protose One serving. . 

Pudding, apple tapioca Small serving. 

Pudding, brown betty Half ordinary serving. 

Pudding, cornmeal Half ordinary serving. 

Pudding, cream rice Very sma 1 ! serving. 

Salad, beet Two servings. 

Salad, mixed fruit Two or three servings. 

Salad, potato One large serving. 

Soup, bean Very large plate. 

Soup, cream of celery Two plates. 

Soup, cream of potato Ordinary plate. 

Soup, creamed corn Ordinary plate. 

Soup, vegetable Two plates. 



THE NUTRITION OF THE BODY 103 



Portions containing 100 
Name of Food , 

Calories roughly described. 



MISCELLANEOUS AND COOKED FOODS (continued) 

Sugar, granulated Three teaspoonfuls. 

Sugar, maple Four teaspoonfuls. 

Tapioca, cooked Ordinary serving. 

Toast, blueberry Ordinary serving. 

Toast, cream Two-thirds ordinary serving. 

Toast, fruit Ordinary serving. 

Toast, gravy Two-thirds ordinary serving. 

Toast, snowrlake Two-thirds ordinary serving. 

Toast, tomato Ordinary serving. 



CHAPTER IX 

A STUDY OF FOODS 

THE CEREALS. BARLEY. BUCKWHEAT. FERMENTED BREADS. 
UNFERMENTED BREADS. CRACKERS. CORN OR MAIZE. CORN- 
STARCH. THE COOKING OF CORN. MACARONI. OATS. RYE. 
RICE. SAGO OR TAPIOCA. WHEAT. FLOUR. THE COOKING OF 
STARCHES. FRUITS. APPLES. APRICOTS. THE BERRIES. 
CHERRIES. CRANBERRIES. THE CANTALOUPE OR MUSKMELON. 

DATES. FIGS. FRUIT JELLIES. LEMONS AND GRAPE FRUIT. 

GRAPES. NECTARINES. OLIVES AND OLIVE OIL. ORANGES. 

PEACHES AND PEARS. THE PINEAPPLE. PLUMS. RAISINS. 

STRAWBERRIES. TOMATOES. THE WATERMELON. NUTS. 
ALMONDS AND BEECHNUTS. BRAZIL NUTS AND BUTTERNUTS. 
THE COCOANUT. THE CHESTNUT. FILBERTS OR HAZEL NUTS. 
HICKORY NUTS. PECANS. PEANUTS. PINE NUTS OR PIGNO- 
LIAS. WALNUTS. THE VEGETABLES. ASPARAGUS. STRING 
BEANS. BEETS. CABBAGE. CARROTS, PARSNIPS, AND TURNIPS. 

CAULIFLOWER. CELERY. CUCUMBERS. GREEN CORN. 
GREENS. EGG PLANT. LETTUCE. ONIONS. GREEN PEAS. 
PUMPKINS AND SQUASHES. THE IRISH POTATO. THE RADISH. 

THE SWEET POTATO. THE VEGETABLE OYSTER, OR SALSIFY. 
FLESH FOODS. BEEF FLESH. BEEF TEA AND BEEF EXTRACT. 
POULTRY. FISH. MUTTON. OYSTERS. PORK. RABBITS. 
VENISON. ANIMAL PRODUCTS. BUTTER. BUTTERMILK. 
CREAM. CHEESE. EGGS. MILK. THE LEGUMES. DRIED 
BEANS. LENTILS. PEAS. THE PEANUT. VARIOUS COMMON 
FOODS. 

AT the back of this book will be found complete food 
tables, giving the composition, caloric value, total 
nutritive value, the proportion of protein to non-protein 
elements, the average time required for stomach digestion, 
etc., of all food substances commonly used by man. 

Our purpose here will be to study food substances by 
groups. The average man has but a meagre idea of the 

104 



'A STUDY OF FOODS 105 

real nutritive value and chemical nature of the food he eats. 
Perverted taste and pleasure enter more largely into the 
selection of the diet than science and reason. Some foods 
which are commonly supposed to be very nourishing, a ref- 
erence to the food tables will show are but moderately so, 
while other foods thought to be of little value, will be found 
highly nourishing and rich in fuel energy. 

The study of the food tables found in the appendix, in 
connection with the facts discussed in the preceding chapter 
on Nutrition, will furnish a thorough and scientific basis for 
the proper understanding and successful regulation of one's 
diet As will be noted, our tables cover both cooked foods 
and raw or uncooked food substances, the last section being 
devoted to miscellaneous cooked foods, such as cakes, pies, 
desserts, puddings, etc., as well as soups and salads. An 
earnest effort has been made to make these tables complete 
and reliable, and it is thought they will yield all the infor- 
mation desired concerning either raw or cooked foodstuffs. 

Outside of special cooked dishes, foodstuffs may be di- 
vided into seven great classes, which are here named in the 
order of their consideration in this chapter: 

1. Cereals. 

2. Fruits. 

3. Nuts. 

4. Vegetables. 

5. Flesh foods. 

6. Animal products. 

7. Legumes. 

THE CEREALS 

The cereals or grains represent the seeds of various plants 
which are used for human food. This group includes the 
various flours and meals, together with other direct prod- 
ucts in the form of bread, crackers, and special prepared 
foods. The cereals are about three-fourths starch, con- 
taining a small amount of protein, enough to make a fairly 
well-balanced food, as the proportion of the protein and 
non-protein elements runs from about i to 7 down to 



106 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

i to 10. This is the desired proportion for a balanced 
food. The cereals are fairly rich in salts. Some of the 
whole grains contain a small amount of cellulose; but as a 
class, they are deficient in fats, with the exception of corn 
and oats, which contain two or three times as much fat as 
the other cereals. 

BARLEY 

In composition, barley conforms to the general order of 
cereals, except that in nutritive value it is slightly inferior 
to wheat. Its gluten is also a little more difficult of diges- 
tion. Barley flour, owing to its inferior gluten, is not good 
for bread purposes unless mixed with wheat flour. This 
cereal is more largely used in the form of pearl barley 
the whole grain with its outer husk very largely removed. 
These barley products require to be cooked from four to 
five hours in a double boiler, unless they have been pre- 
viously soaked. Barley will probably never come to take a 
prominent place among food substances used by man. 

BUCKWHEAT 

The popular prejudice against buckwheat is due to the fact 
that it is usually served in the form of pastry or half-cooked 
buckwheat cakes, which are rendered still more difficult of 
digestion by the addition of melted butter and syrup. Buck- 
wheat flour in itself is very similar to the other cereal flours, 
except that it is slightly deficient in protein and salts and . 
contains but a moderate amount of fat. 

FERMENTED BREADS 

Entire wheat flour possesses many advantages over the 
other flours, and bread made from such flour constitutes a 
perfectly combined food with the exception of its deficiency 
in fat. This, however, is more than atoned for by the addi- 
tion of butter to the bread when it is eaten. Whole wheat 
bread contains more gluten and salts than any other form of 
bread, and also more of the cellulose, which is supposed to 
encourage the action of the bowels. 

Graham bread resembles whole wheat bread, except that a 



A STUDY OF FOODS 107 

portion of the cellulose is removed. While these breads are 
very wholesome, they are irritating to some delicate stom- 
achs. Ordinary white bread, made from the patent process 
flour, is very good and much superior to the bread made 
from the fine white flours, which are deficient in protein and 
salts. The modern roller process of producing patent flour, 
preserves much of the gluten and salts. 

Salt-rising bread, fruit bread, etc., conform largely to the 
general order of fermented breads. Hot biscuits and fresh 
breads are very difficult of digestion. They should either 
be cut in slices and toasted in the oven, or allowed to stand 
for twenty-four hours before they are eaten. 

Zwieback represents the most wholesome form in which 
fermented bread can be used. It is twice-baked, or thor- 
oughly prepared toast. 

UNFERMENTED BREADS 

Unfermented breads undoubtedly represent the ideal bread 
stuff. Their hardness favors thorough mastication, and the 
absence of the yeast and the tendency toward moisture and 
sogginess greatly lessens the likelihood of fermentation in 
the stomach. The unfermented breads, of course, pound for 
pound, are more nutritious than the fermented, as they con- 
tain less water. 

CRACKERS 

Crackers are a form of bread. They are quite high in 
nutritive value, as they are baked in an oven and contain less 
water than ordinary breadstuffs. They conform to the gen- 
eral composition of breads made from the corresponding 
flours. The only objection to be urged against them is that 
of the chemicals used in their manufacture, such as soda, 
baking powder, etc., which detract much from their whole- 
someness. 

CORN OR MAIZE 

Corn contains almost as much protein as wheat, while it 
contains more than twice as much fat. In salts, it runs 
about the same as the other cereals; in cellulose, a little 



108 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

below. Corn may be eaten parched, but is commonly used 
in the form of hominy, which is quite difficult of digestion. 
The modern products of toasted corn flakes are very easy 
of digestion, and represent a triumph of science in the 
preparation of cereal foods. 

Cornstarch is a preparation of pure starch made from 
corn. Cornmeal represents a very highly nutritious, well- 
balanced food. In -the form of cornmeal mush, it is quite 
difficult of digestion, but if the mush is cut in thin slices, 
covered with bread or cracker crumbs, and baked in an oven, 
it constitutes a wholesome food, fairly easy of digestion. 
Corn bread is a very nutritious food, especially if it is not 
spoiled by the addition of an excess of soda, etc. The old- 
fashioned hoe-cake is a splendid health food. 

Green corn can hardly be considered a cereal. It belongs 
more largely to the order of vegetables. Popped corn con- 
forms in general to the composition of corn. It is not very 
easy of digestion, but is highly nutritious and well digested 
by the average stomach. 

THE COOKING OF CORN 

Corn in the form of hulled hominy, grits, etc., requires 
prolonged cooking. Much dyspepsia has resulted from the 
so-called " hasty puddings " prepared in ten or fifteen min- 
utes, whereas corn requires two or three hours for proper 
cooking, dependent on the milling process to which it has 
been subjected. 

Irish moss and millet are quite similar in composition, the 
former containing about twice the percentage of protein usu- 
ally found in cereals, with a less percentage of starch, con- 
trasting with arrowroot, which is composed entirely, of 
starch. 

MACARONI 

Macaroni is a special form of bread, and when made from 
the hard varieties of wheat, is very rich in protein. It is 
called by different names, according to its shape, such as 
macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, and pasta d'ltalia. The bet- 
ter macaronis are found to be tough when you attempt to 



A STUDY OF FOODS 109 

break them, while the cheaper starchy products are easily 
broken. The cooking of macaroni requires from twenty 
minutes to half an hour, according to its age. 

OATS 

Oats represent the cereal richest in fat. The gluten of 
the oat lacks the tenacity of that found in wheat, and there- 
fore it is impossible to make good fermented bread from oat 
flour. Oats are commonly eaten in the form of rolled oats 
mush, which is a very nutritious food, but difficult of di- 
gestion when cooked only fifteen or twenty minutes, as is 
commonly the practice. Other oat preparations require 
from two to four hours continuous cooking in a double boiler, 
properly to prepare the starch for digestion. 

RYE 

Rye as a breadstuff is superior k o barley, but inferior to 
wheat, whose general chemical composition it closely re- 
sembles. Rye bread is a favorite among some nationalities, 
but is in no way superior to wheat bread. 

RICE 

Rice is much lower in protein than the grains previously 
considered. It also contains a very small amount of fat, 
but it is principally a starch food. It is highly nutritious, 
very easy of digestion, and although low in protein and fat, 
is a food upon which the Japanese subsist for long periods. 
Rice should be cooked so as not to lose the water in which 
it is prepared, as it contains practically all the salts and 
much of its meagre protein substance. Browning in the 
oven before cooking adds much to its tastefulness and di- 
gestibility. Rice is now made in the form of flakes, similar 
to the breakfast foods. It is one of the most easy of di- 
gestion of all the cereals. 

SAGO AND TAPIOCA 

Sago and tapioca are really prepared foods manufactured 
from certain plants and roots, and consist quite largely of 
starch. As such, they require thorough cooking, and as 
foods they belong to the class of cornstarch and arrowroot. 



110 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

WHEAT 

Wheat, after all, is probably the ideal cereal for the manu- 
facture of bread. Its gluten is very tenacious and holds 
gases well, thus lending itself very readily to the manufac- 
ture of fermented breads. Cracked wheat requires thorough 
cooking about four hours when cooked in a double boiler. 
The more finely divided the grain, or when thinly rolled, it 
cooks in a shorter time. Wheat grits is a preparation made 
from the germs of the wheat kernel, and is an excellent food. 
It is most commonly prepared as a mush. Wheat flakes are 
also on the market, which are thoroughly cooked in the proc- 
ess of manufacture. Farina is another preparation of wheat 
used as a mush. 

FLOURS 

The ideal flour for the healthy stomach is either entire 
wheat or graham. So-called fine flour is deficient in protein 
and salts, while patent process flour, as previously noticed, 
preserves most of the gluten and salts, the bran or cellulose 
having been sifted out. The cellulose is found only in the 
graham or whole wheat flours. 

THE COOKING OF STARCHES 

The science of cooking, so far as health and digestion are 
concerned, resolves itself almost entirely into the proper 
cooking of starch. Except for the starches, almost all other 
foods are more valuable and more easy of digestion in the 
raw state. 

It should be remembered that all the cereals when young 
or in the "milky stage," contain fruit sugar in the place 
of starch. As this sugar needs no cooking, the only cook- 
ing green corn requires is for the purpose of increasing the 
digestibility of its cellulose. In this respect, the unripe 
cereals resemble the fruits and vegetables, but as the cereals 
ripen, the easily digested sugar is converted into starch, 
which is practically indigestible when raw, and very diffi- 
cult of digestion unless thoroughly cooked. 

Fruits contain starch when they are green, and this is 



A STUDY OF FOODS III 

converted into sugar by the ripening process. The cooking 
proposition, therefore, may be briefly summarized as fol- 
lows: Fruits should be cooked when they are green and 
may be eaten raw with impunity when they are ripe. Cere- 
als require little or no cooking when green or in the " milky 
state," but must be thoroughly cooked when ripe or in the 
dried state. 

FRUITS 

The American people in recent years have awakened to 
the value of the cereals, but they are still unappreciative of 
the great value of fruits as a regular article of diet. As a 
class, fruits are not high in nutritive value, as are the 
cereals, but they are of all substances most tasty, and while 
they contain but traces of fat and protein, they are quite 
rich in the important salts needed in the human economy. 
Their nutritive value is represented by various forms of 
starch, acids, and fruit sugar. This fruit sugar is about the 
only substance eaten by man which is able to pass im- 
mediately into the blood-stream without being acted upon by 
any of the digestive secretions, and is at the same time very 
high in heat and energy value. The water contained in 
fruits is pure, distilled liquid a health beverage of the 
highest order. The bitter, irritating, or poisonous properties 
of fruits are always found in the rind or outside husk, and 
can therefore easily be rejected. The old adage is untrue, 
which asserts that " fruit is golden in the morning, silver at 
noon, and lead at night." Properly combined with other 
food, it is good at every meal, and especially good at night. 
The acids of fruit are highly nourishing. They contain 
from I to 2 per cent of the various fruit acids, chiefly malic, 
citric, and tartaric, the lemon having 7.5 per cent of acid. 
The fruits also contain from I to 5 per cent of pectose 
or vegetable jelly. 

APPLES 

Apples, in common with most fruits, contain less than one 
per cent of protein and fat, but possess about 15 per 
cent of fruit sugar dissolved in distilled water and held 



112 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

in a framework of fine-grained, easily digested cellulose. 
It may be of interest in this connection to call attention to 
the fact that the fruits are the richest of all substances in 
cellulose the woody portion of foods which is of great 
value to persons troubled with constipation. Of course, the 
proportion of protein to non-protein elements in the fruits 
is very low, running from I to 25 down to I to 50. Pure, 
unfermented apple juice is a solution of fruit sugar in dis- 
tilled water which, when eaten, enters the blood-stream im- 
mediately without digestion. An ounce of pure fruit juice 
contains more than half as many calories as an ounce of 
lean meat. Fresh, unfermented, unsweetened fruit juice is a 
powerful germicide destroying all ordinary germs in a 
few minutes. Apple sauce is similar to the juice with a 
little sugar added. Baked apples are very easy of digestion, 
while dried apples are higher in nutritive value, owing to 
the fact that the water has been largely evaporated. The 
varying degree of acidity in apples, as well as in other fruits, 
renders it necessary for some people to select those contain- 
ing less acid, when they are troubled with acid dyspepsia. 
An excellent method of sweetening some of these sour 
fruits is by the addition of one of the sweet fruits, such as 
raisins. 

APRICOTS 

Apricots have over I per cent of protein with no fat. 
They are high in cellulose, having about 5 per cent. 
The cooked product is more acid than the raw, due to 
chemical changes brought about by the heat. 

BANANAS 

Bananas as a food more nearly resemble the cereals than 
they do the fruits, as they contain starch more largely in 
the place of sugar. They contain a small amount of fat 
and, in common with most fruits, about I per cent of 
salts, having little cellulose, and are constipating in their 
effects, whereas the majority of the fruits are laxative. 
The banana must be thoroughly masticated, and is better as 
a food if baked. 



A STUDY OF FOODS 113 

THE BERRIES 

Blackberries, blueberries, raspberries, whortleberries, etc., 
have the same general composition, running from 10 to 
20 per cent in nutritive value, containing traces of pro- 
tein, very little fat, the usual amount of salts, with a good 
percentage of cellulose. Especially are raspberries rich in 
this latter substance, the seeds of this berry being reckoned 
as cellulose. 

CHERRIES 

Cherries are somewhat above the average fruit in nutri- 
tive value, averaging about 25 per cent. They are very rich 
in cellulose, equalling the apricot, and containing about I 
per cent of protein. 

CRANBERRIES 

Cranberries, currants, and gooseberries are of about the 
same composition, except that gooseberries and currants have 
about twice the nutritive value of cranberries, owing to 
their larger per cent of acid and sugar. 

THE CANTALOUPE OR MUSKMELON 

This melon-fruit contains no fat, but is rich in cellulose, 
with a fair per cent of sugar, but in common with other 
melons, it is about 85 per cent water. 

DATES 

Dates are a peculiar fruit, having a nutritive value 
of 85 per cent. They contain over 2 per cent of both 
protein and fat, and of course are very high in starch 
and sugar, but, contrary to the ordinary opinion, they con- 
tain a very small amount of cellulose. They are a food de- 
manding thorough mastication. Inferior dates are often 
thoroughly saturated with cheap molasses. 

FIGS 

Another peculiar fruit, having the highest nutritive value 
of all fruits, fairly rich in protein, but having little fat. 
The fig contains much sugar, is the richest of all fruits in 
8 



1 14 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

cellulose, being equalled or excelled only by the whortle- 
berry. An excellent food for constipation. 

FRUIT JELLIES 

These substances contain a small amount of salt. They 
are largely the concentration of fruit juices with the addi- 
tion of cane sugar, which renders them a little difficult of 
digestion. 

LEMONS AND GRAPE FRUIT 

These two fruits are about the same, the grape fruit con- 
taining a little more of the fruit acid. They are, of all the 
fruits, richest in these valuable acids, which in the process 
of digestion are converted into certain salts which render 
the blood more alkaline. 

GRAPES 

Grapes are an excellent fruit, containing about 25 per 
cent nutritive value, a small amount of protein and fat, 
but a large amount of fruit sugar and tartaric acid. They 
contain a fair amount of cellulose. 

NECTARINES 

This splendid little fruit is almost wholly starch, sugar, 
and water, containing but a small amount of cellulose. 

OLIVES AND OLIVE OIL 

Again we come to a very peculiar fruit, one which in 
chemical composition very nearly resembles the oily nuts, 
and, after all, nuts might be classified as oily fruits. Ripe 
olives are very wholesome. This cannot be said of the 
green, pickled olives. The ripe olive, while it has a trace of 
protein, contains about 25 per cent of pure, emulsified, 
easily digested fat. Olive oil is about 100 per cent pure 
fat, and represents a very wholesome in fact, an ideal 
form for securing this substance. The olive and olive oil 
ought to come into more general use and more largely re- 
place the use of animal fats. 



A STUDY OF FOODS 115 

ORANGES. 

Oranges contain over i per cent of salts, but are largely 
water and sugar. The pulp represents easily digested cellu- 
lose, and contains about one-half as much as cherries and 
other fruits rich in cellulose. Orange juice is a solution of 
digested sugar in distilled water, and can be taken by almost 
any stomach, even by infants. 

PEACHES AND PEARS 

These fruits are very similar, the peach containing more 
acid, the pear more sugar. They are both rich in cellulose, 
but poor in both protein and fat. 

THE PINEAPPLE. 

In total nutritive value, the pineapple stands a little above 
the fruits. This is due to the fact that it is rich in 
cellulose, containing almost as much as figs. It is, there- 
fore, a good food for inactive bowels. The pineapples sold 
in this country are practically green. 

PLUMS 

These fruits contain no fat. They are rich in cellulose 
and sugar, with a small amount of salt. The prune is the 
plum dried and is certainly an excellent food. It may be 
eaten raw, after soaking in water, or in the form of sauce 
or prune marmalade. 

RAISINS 

Raisins, or dried grapes, are a food not sufficiently appre- 
ciated, containing protein and fat, with sugar and acids, 
and a small amount of cellulose. 

STRAWBERRIES 

This luscious berry is low in nutritive value, consisting 
largely of water, a small amount of sugar, and cellulose, 
but is very easy of digestion. It contains a considerable 
amount of iron. 



1 1 6 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

TOMATOES 

This splendid fruit, formerly regarded as poisonous, now 
commonly considered a vegetable, is one of the lowest in 
nutritive value and, contrary to common supposition, it is 
also very low in cellulose. It contains a small amount of 
acid, and is rich in salts, containing iron and other valuable 
mineral elements. 

THE WATERMELON 

This is the largest of the melon-fruits. Its n per cent 
of nutritive value consists of cellulose, sugar, and salt, 
the remainder being pure distilled water. It is an excellent 
hot-weather food, and suited to any stomach if the coarser 
cellulose is rejected. 

NUTS 

The nuts represent the seeds of certain large plants and 
trees. They are a unique class of foods, entirely different 
from all other food substances. Since they are largely 
borne by trees, they might properly be classed as fruits. 
They are exceedingly high in nutritive value, averaging in 
the neighborhood of 90 per cent. They are very rich in 
proteins. They are as high or higher than flesh foods, from 
which they greatly differ in that their protein is very evenly 
combined with non-protein elements, the ratio running from 
about i to 4, down to about I to 9, more nearly resembling 
the cereals in this respect. Nuts are very rich in fat and 
salts, while in cellulose they run about the same as the 
fruits. 

ALMONDS AND BEECHNUTS 

These nuts yield 20 per cent in protein, about 50 per cent, 
or one-half of their bulk, in fat, with starchy substances less 
than 10 per cent. They are rich in salts, and contain about 
5 per cent of cellulose. 

BRAZIL NUTS AND BUTTERNUTS 

These nuts are the richest in fat of all nuts except the 
pecan. Otherwise their composition is about the same as 
^he rest of the nut family. 



A STUDY OF FOODS II 1 ? 



THE COCOANUT 



This nut is low in protein, containing only about one- 
third that of the other nuts. It is rich, however, in fat, and 
contains 30 per cent of starch. It is a nut which more 
nearly approaches the cereals, or bread type of food. 

THE CHESTNUT 

Chestnuts contain the smallest amount of protein of all 
nuts. They are more nearly " cereal " than some of the 
grains themselves. The chestnut is about 35 per cent starch, 
and therefore should be baked or boiled before it is eaten. 

FILBERTS OR HAZELNUTS. 

These run about one-half fat and 15 per cent protein, 
etc. They are valuable little nuts, but require thorough 
mastication. 

HICKORY NUTS 

These nuts are very similar in composition to the filbert, 
and are good food when eaten before they have become 
rancid. 

PECANS 

The pecan is a unique nut-fruit and deserves to have been 
called the " butter nut " or " fat nut," and in this respect 
very nearly approaches the olive in its composition, contain- 
ing over 70 per cent of fat. It has less than 10 per 
cent protein, not much starch, and is a nut that deserves to 
come into general use. 

PEANUTS 

This commonly used little nut is really not a nut. It be- 
longs to the family of legumes, and will be treated there. 

PINE NUTS, OR PIGNOLIAS 

This nut is unique in that it is rich both in protein and fat. 
It contains a goodly percentage of salts and cellulose. 

WALNUTS 

Walnuts run on a general average the same as the other 
nuts, being well balanced in all the elements. 



Il8 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



THE VEGETABLES 

As a class, the vegetables are low in nutritive value, 
averaging in the neighborhood of 10 per cent, with the ex- 
ception of the potato. In protein, the vegetables run slightly 
above the fruits. In fat, they are equal to the fruits or a 
little better. In carbohydrates, they differ greatly from the 
fruits in that they contain starch in the place of fruit sugar. 
Many of the vegetables, therefore, may be rendered more 
digestible by a moderate amount of cooking. The vege- 
tables contain in the neighborhood of i per cent, or a 
little less, of the mineral elements or organic salts, about 
the same as or a trifle below the fruits. Contrary to popular 
opinion, the vegetables are poor in cellulose, varying be- 
tween i and 2 per cent. The cellulose of the vegetable 
makes a large appearance because it is coarse and skeleton- 
like in form, as in the case of cabbage; but when it comes 
to the eating of green foods as a remedy for constipation, 
the fruits are three times more valuable than vegetables. 
The proportion of protein to non-protein elements in vege- 
tables runs very low, from i to 5 down to I to 15. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus is one of the more easily digested vegetables. 
Especially is this true of the tips. Its slight nutritive value 
is due to a trace of protein and about 3 per cent of starch. 

STRING BEANS. 

The beans and peas in the green state must be regarded 
as vegetables. In this respect, they resemble the cereals, 
in that the ripening process entirely changes their chemical 
composition. String beans resemble the ordinary leaves of 
vegetables in their general composition and digestibility. 

BEETS 

Beets possess two or three times the nutritive value of 
ordinary vegetables. They are one of the sweet roots, and 
contain almost 15 per cent of cane sugar. Beets are ren- 



A STUDY OF FOODS 1 19 

dered more digestible by cooking, as are their tops, which 
are used as beet greens. 

CABBAGE 

Cabbage has a nutritive value of about 10 per cent, about 
half of which is starch. It contains only a little over i 
per cent of cellulose. This cellulose shows prominent be- 
cause the fibrous part is very coarse or sponge-like. Raw 
cabbage can be digested in two and one-half hours, but 
cooked cabbage requires twice that time for digestion. 
Therefore, cabbage is best eaten in the raw state, in the 
form of cold slaw. 

CARROTS, PARSNIPS, AND TURNIPS 

These vegetables much resemble one another, carrots be- 
ing a little richer in starch, while the parsnip is a little 
richer in cellulose. In fact, parsnips contain a higher per- 
centage of cellulose than any other vegetable. The tur- 
nips are the most difficult to digest. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

This is one of the easily digested vegetables. It is a sort 
of tender cabbage, whose general chemical composition it 
resembles. 

CELERY 

Celery is one of the vegetables less in nutritive value. 
Its cellulose is small in amount, but very coarse. It con- 
tains a good percentage of salts. 

CUCUMBERS 

Like celery, the cucumber is very low in nourishment. 
Its starch is difficult of digestion, and in the pickled form 
it is almost impossible of digestion. 

GREEN CORN 

Green corn, as previously noted, is not a cereal, but more 
largely on the order of the vegetable or fruit. It contains 
almost 20 per cent of sugar in the place of starch. In 
the ripened form, it requires cooking to transform this 



120 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

starch properly and prepare it for digestion. It contains 
about twice as much starch as the ordinary vegetable. 

GREENS. 

The various plant tops used for greens, such as spinach, 
kale, dandelion, etc., run about 10 per cent of starch, with 
a small percentage of fat. They are rich in salts and con- 
tain a small per cent of cellulose, about half that found in 
the fruits. 

EGG PLANT, 

Egg plant is a wholesome vegetable, fairly easy of di- 
gestion. It contains less than 10 per cent nutritive value. 
Its starch is coarse and requires cooking. 

LETTUCE. 

Lettuce is one of the vegetables low in food value. It 
contains a number of salts, but is not a sleep-producing 
food in the quantities in which it is ordinarily eaten, as 
some people suppose. 

ONIONS, 

Onions are above the ordinary of vegetables in nutritive 
value, due to their starchy substances; and in addition to 
the salts, they contain irritating acids, which are rendered 
less injurious by cooking, so that boiled onions are a com- 
paratively wholesome food. 

GREEN PEAS 

Green peas are the most nutritious, of all the vegetables 
except potatoes. They are rich in protein, fat, and starch, 
and when large enough to fill the pod, have already begun 
to turn the corner toward the legume state, which com- 
pletely takes them out of the vegetable class. 

PUMPKINS AND SQUASHES 

The pumpkin is one of the coarse vegetables, classified 
by some authorities as a fruit, as is also the squash. As 
these foods contain little sugar, but much starch, we pre- 



A STUDY OF FOODS 121 

fer to regard them as vegetables. They require thorough 
cooking. 

THE IRISH POTATO 

The Irish potato should be classified as a cereal, but as 
it grows under ground and is more generally regarded as a 
vegetable, we will so treat it here. Potatoes run from 
25 to 30 per cent nutritive value, containing some protein 
and practically no fat; but like the cereals, they are rich in 
starch, containing a small amount of potassium and other 
salts, with practically no cellulose. The baked potato rep- 
resents the most easily digested form of starch known to- 
day. The ratio of the protein element to the non-protein 
in potato is ideal. It represents a food just about as well 
balanced as bread, and, like bread, it is deficient in fat; 
therefore, potatoes are able to take the place of bread and 
cereals nicely in the average diet. 

THE RADISH, 

The radish is one of the vegetables rich in cellulose, but 
poor in almost every other element except a little starch. 
It is one of the vegetables most difficult of digestion. It 
contains certain irritating oils similar to the onion. 

THE SWEET POTATO 

The sweet potato in nutritive value runs about the same 
as the Irish potato. It is probably a little more difficult of 
digestion. It contains a little cellulose. In starch it has 
but little more than half the value of the Irish potato. 

THE VEGETABLE OYSTER, OR SALSIFY 

This vegetable contains a small percentage of fat and 
starch. Its nutritive value is very low. Its chief service is 
that of a flavor for soup. 

FLESH FOODS 

Contrary to the general belief, meats are not highly nu- 
tritious foods. They are from one-half to three-quarters 



122 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

water, not the distilled water of the fruits and vegetables, 
but contaminated, poison-laden liquid, derived from the 
blood and tissue juices present in the animal at the time of 
death. Flesh foods are different from all other food sub- 
stances in that the percentage of protein and non-protein 
elements is excessively high, running from I to I, down to 
about i to 2. This constitutes them a class of foods in 
which very nearly one-half of the nutritive value is pure 
protein. It is almost impossible to take flesh foods regu- 
larly without consuming an excess of protein. 

BEEF FLESH. 

The average cut of fresh or preserved beef runs from 
15 to 20 per cent in protein, with less than 5 per 
cent of fat, except in the fat portions of steak, etc. In 
common with other flesh foods, beef contains no starch or 
sugar, but does contain a small percentage of salts in solu- 
tion in the animal juices. This percentage in various flesh 
foods averages a little more than I per cent. Flesh foods 
contain no cellulose and are, therefore, rather constipating. 
Veal runs the same in nutritive value as beef. The flesh of 
all young animals contains much more of the acid producing 
substances which probably favor rheumatism and allied con- 
ditions. 

The digestibility of meats is decreased by cooking, but 
cooking is rendered absolutely necessary by certain disease 
dangers lurking in all uncooked or insufficiently cooked flesh. 

BEEF TEA and BEEF EXTRACT. 

Beef tea is a stimulant, not a food. It contains but a 
trifle over I per cent of nutritive value, it contains cer- 
tain animal extractives in solution, which are stimulating 
to the body. Beef tea exerts an effect similar to tea and 
coffee. Beef extract contains some nutritive elements and 
therefore has a food value. 

POULTRY 

Chicken, turkey, duck, etc. Poultry runs a little below 
beef in protein content, but as it usually contains more fat, 



A STUDY OF FOODS 123 

the nutritive value is about the same or slightly higher than 
beef flesh. The domestic fowls are a little more digestible 
than beef, while the wild fowl is more difficult of digestion. 

FISH, 

Fresh fish are a little less than beef in protein value. 
They contain a varying percentage of fat, some high and 
some low. Their total nutritive value is about one-fourth 
less than that of beef and the average flesh foods. 

MUTTON, 

In nutritive value mutton is identical with beef. It con- 
tains a little less of protein, but more fat and salts. In di- 
gestibility it is about the same or a little less. 

OYSTERS. 

Of all flesh foods, oysters are lowest in nutritive value 
and, with the exception of pork, are more dangerous from 
the standpoint of disease. The oyster is in reality a large 
liver and kidney filled with bad water. It is the only flesh 
product outside of clam chowder which contains any starch 
substance at all. 

PORK. 

Average lean pork runs a little above beef in nutritive 
value, as it contains more fat. Pork is the most difficult of 
digestion of all flesh food, salted pork requiring about five 
hours to pass out of the stomach, while smoked ham may re- 
quire even a longer time. 

RABBITS. 

Game of this kind is usually a little higher in nutritive 
value than beef, as the protein and fat content are greater. 

VENISON. 

Venison differs very little from other flesh. There is a 
group of animal products which space will not permit us to 
mention in detail, but which can be examined by consulting 
the food tables, such as clam chowder, Bologna sausage, 
frog's legs, lobsters, sweetbreads, turtle, etc. 



124 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



ANIMAL PRODUCTS. 

We have a group of foods which are derived from the 
animal, but which do not contain flesh, such as eggs, milk, 
cream, butter, cheese, etc. The animal may be more or less 
diseased, but these products, in the form of eggs and milk, 
are the last to become affected. Notwithstanding this fact, 
it cannot be expected that wholesome milk or eggs can be 
long derived from a sick cow or chicken. 

BUTTER. 

Butter is a free fat obtained by churning cream, a process 
which consolidates all its minute fat droplets. It contains 
a small amount of protein and salt, but is practically all 
butter fat, with about 10 per cent of water. In caloric 
value it represents one of the most valuable foods that can 
be eaten for purposes of heat and energy. It is, therefore, 
a cold-weather food, but not so desirable in hot weather. 
Each ounce of butter represents over 227 calories of heat. 
Butter is not easy of digestion and, in common with all 
other fat, delays the process of stomach digestion. 

BUTTERMILK, 

Buttermilk contains some protein and sugar of milk, with 
very little fat, and about I per cent of salt. Many peo- 
ple can digest buttermilk, who cannot tolerate raw milk. 
The buttermilk germ probably has some effect in sterilizing 
the intestinal tract and preventing the accumulation of 
germs therein. On the whole, buttermilk is a preferable 
food to sweet milk. 

CREAM. 

Cream averages from 15 to 20 per cent fat, and represents 
fat in a more easily digested form than butter. Many peo- 
ple who cannot take milk, can take cream in connection with 
various desserts, puddings, etc. 



A STUDY OF FOODS 125 

CHEESE, 

We have cheese in two forms, the fresh, or cottage cheese 
a very nutritious food; very high in protein, much re- 
sembling the flesh foods in this respect. Its protein is very 
easy of digestion and does not contain the harmful and ir- 
ritating poisons generally found in old, ripe cheese. Or- 
dinary full-cream cheese is a nourishing food, rich in pro- 
tein, fat, and salts. The only objection to it as a food, other 
than its excessive richness in protein, is that it has passed 
through a stage of decomposition and contains certain acids 
which are very irritating to the digestive system. 

EGGS, 

Of all food products derived from the animal, the egg is 
probably the least objectionable. Eggs are very nutritious, 
being almost equal in value to beefsteak, and of the same 
general chemical composition. The white of the egg is 
about 13 per cent protein, with less than 2 per cent of fat, 
being almost purely a protein substance; while the yolk is 
about 15 per cent protein and more than 30 per cent fat. 
Eggs are an excellent food if not eaten in too great quan- 
tities, and certainly form an admirable substitute for flesh 
foods for those desiring to eat less meat. Eggnog, or raw 
eggs beaten up in milk, constitutes a highly nourishing and 
easily digested food a food highly valuable to consump- 
tives and others in a weakened condition. The more an egg 
is cooked, the more difficult it becomes of digestion. 

MILK. 

Whole milk has about 13 per cent of nutritive value, con- 
taining about 4 per cent of protein, fat, and sugar; usually 
a little more of sugar than of the other elements. Some peo- 
ple thrive on milk; others cannot tolerate it. While it is 
probably the ideal food for infants, it is not an ideal adult 
food. Mother's milk is richer in sugar and poorer in pro- 
tein and fat, than cow's milk. 



126 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



THE LEGUMES, 

The legumes might very properly be termed the "veg- 
etable beefsteaks," in that the ratio between protein and 
non-protein elements runs about the same as in the flesh 
foods. Therefore, all persons desiring to reduce the pro- 
tein in their diet, or desiring to eat less of flesh foods, should 
be very careful also to reduce the amount of legumes eaten, 
or they will be merely cutting down the animal protein and 
taking an equal amount or more of vegetable protein. The 
difference between the protein in the flesh foods and in the 
legumes is that the vegetable protein is pure and unpol- 
luted, free from animal contamination and intoxication. 
It is also a little more difficult of digestion. About 90 
per cent of animal protein is digested compared with about 
80 per cent of the vegetable proteins. According to Gautier, 
animal protein acidifies, stimulates, and injures the blood- 
stream. Protein of vegetable origin, with its accompanying 
salts, alkalinizes and otherwise prepares the blood-stream to 
resist infection. 

DRIED BEANS, 

Dried beans contain more than three times the nutritive 
value of beef. They contain more of the protein than the 
flesh foods, and in addition to a small amount of fat, they 
contain from 40 to 50 per cent of starch, and this is what 
necessitates the cooking of the legumes. The legumes are 
very rich in salts, more so than any other class of foods, 
containing from I to 2 or even 3 per cent. They are also 
rich in cellulose, containing more than vegetables, but less 
than fruits. They are, therefore, extremely rich foods in 
all elements, and outside of being a little more difficult of 
digestion, they are adapted perfectly to take the place of 
flesh foods in the nourishment of the body. The only ob- 
jection to them is the same as that urged against flesh 
being so very rich in protein, it is easy to overeat when 
large quantities of this class of foods are consumed. Un- 



A STUDY OF FOODS 12? 

hulled and unsoaked beans require to be cooked from 5 to 
8 hours. 

The hulls of beans are very difficult of digestion and also 
contain a very small amount of uric acid; therefore, bean 
puree is the ideal form in which to eat beans, as the hulls 
have been removed by having been run through the colan- 
der. Of all the legumes, the Lima bean is the highest in 
nutritive value 92 per cent. Other beans, not mentioned, 
run on an average about the same as the dried navy bean 
just considered. 

LENTILS 

Lentils are a small leguminous seed, not so generally 
known or used in this country as beans, but an excellent 
nitrogenous food, containing about 25 per cent of protein, 
more than 50 per cent of starch, with over 2 per cent of 
fat. They are cooked about the same as beans, and may 
be made into many savory dishes. 

PEAS 

Dried peas are rich in protein in common with beans and 
lentils, this protein being in the form of legumin, a special 
substance not found in any other class of foods. Soups 
made from peas and the other legumes are very nutritious 
as compared with other soups. 

THE PEANUT, 

The peanut is a legume, its protein element being identical 
with that of peas and beans. It is a very nutritious little 
seed, but quite difficult of digestion, especially in the roasted 
state, as in this condition it is practically fried in its own 
oil. It does not contain so much starch as the other 
legumes, but is far richer in fat, containing almost 40 per 
cent. It also differs from the other legumes in that it con- 
tains a high percentage of cellulose. Peanut butter is made 
from this nut, owing to its richness in fat. When made 
from roasted peanuts, this butter is difficult of digestion. 



128 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



VARIOUS COMMON FOODS. 

Space will not permit us to consider further in detail the 
various articles of human diet. The reader is referred to 
the food tables for details concerning various foods, and 
especially with reference to the ordinary cooked foods 
which are shown in connection with the raw foods, so that 
a glance will reveal the effect of cooking with its addition 
of sugar, salt, water, etc., or its abstraction of water in the 
case of baking, etc. 

Great pains have been taken, in the preparation of these 
tables, to show foods as they are commonly used upon the 
table, as the student of foods can gain but little idea of 
what he is eating by merely studying tables dealing with 
raw foodstuffs. In connection with each element in the 
food tables, the calories per ounce of food are given. (Food 
Tables are to be found on pages 370 to 383. 



CHAPTER X 

POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS* 

RESULTS OF FOOD ADULTERATION. ADULTERATION OF ANIMAL PROD- 
UCTS. PRESERVED MEATS. SAUSAGE. CANNED MEATS. LARD 
AND MINCEMEAT. EGGS. FlSH AND OYSTER POISONING. ADUL- 
TERATION OF DAIRY PRODUCTS. MlLK ADULTERANTS. CHEMICAL 
PRESERVATIVES. MlLK CONTAMINATIONS. CREAM. BUTTER. 
CHEESE. ICE CREAM. CONDENSED MILK. ADULTERATION OF 
CEREALS. BREADS AND PASTRIES. BREAKFAST FOODS, ETC. ADUL- 
TERATION OF SUGAR PRODUCTS. CANDY ADULTERANTS. HONEY. 

SYRUP AND MOLASSES. SUGAR. JELLIES AND JAMS. 
ADULTERATION OF CONDIMENTS AND RELISHES. CONDIMENTS. 
PICKLES AND VINEGARS. TOMATO CATSUP. OLIVE OIL AND FLA- 
VORING EXTRACTS. ADULTERATION OF BEVERAGES AND MEDICINES. 
TEA AND COFFEE, SOFT DRINKS. MEDICINES. 

THE public press has recently devoted much space to 
the discussion of "tainted money." If an equal 
amount of publicity had been given to the consideration of 
tainted foods, great good would have resulted by way of 
improving the health and happiness of the people, for 
quite a percentage of the food commonly eaten by the 
average citizen is more or less " tainted " as the result of 
cold storage, incipient decay, accidental poisoning, or in- 
tentional adulteration. Even though an adulterated food is 
not poisonous, it is nevertheless a fraud. 

* While the Federal Pure Food Laws have done much to lessen 
food adulteration, especially in interstate commerce, and raise 
the standards of food dealers and manufacturers, nevertheless 
food frauds continue. The reader should not be unduly alarmed 
by the disclosures of this chapter. In no one locality and at no 
one time were all these adulterations found. They represent 
conditions as found from time to time all over this country by 
the various State, municipal and other food inspectors. 
9 129 



130 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

RESULTS OF FOOD ADULTERATION 

Modern science is rapidly effecting the conquest of the 
great world plagues and many of the so-called germ dis- 
eases, such as yellow fever, smallpox, diphtheria, hydro- 
phobia, lockjaw, malaria, and cholera; but, in the very face 
of the great victories achieved by science in the conquering of 
these germ diseases, we are confronted with the problem of a 
tremendous increase in practically all those diseases which 
are a result of slow and long-continued poisoning the 
chronic and constitutional diseases. The writer has long 
held the opinion that the use of poisoned and adulterated 
foods had much to do with lowering the vital resisting 
power of the body, thus paving the way for a general or 
partial physical breakdown, with its train of chronic af- 
flictions and constitutional maladies. 

In other words, while the acute diseases caused by germs 
and their poisons are being gradually mastered by science, 
the chronic diseases caused by- body-poisons and food- 
poisons are increasing at a tremendous rate. Estimates 
based upon statistics gathered from various sources compel 
us to recognize that insanity, idiocy, and epilepsy, have in- 
creased in the past fifty years about 100 per cent, some 
authorities claiming an increase as high as 300 per cent. 
Bright's disease and diabetes have increased in the last fifty 
years more than 500 per cent. One American authority 
claims that diabetes has increased in fifty years almost 1,500 
per cent. 

Cancer a disease closely associated with the health 
and nutrition of the body cells has increased over 100 
per cent in twenty-five years. 

General nervous diseases and drug habits are greatly on 
the increase. It is possible that the constant irritation of 
the system from the use of unnatural, adulterated, or 
poisoned foods, which were so extensively used until very 
recently, has had much to do with undermining the diges- 
tive system and rendering unstable the nervous system. 

One of the government experts on food adulteration is 



POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 131 

responsible for the statement that " adulterated foods and 
drugs do more harm than the rum traffic." Notwithstand- 
ing the numerous pure-food laws of the States and the 
national pure-food law, it is estimated that almost a bil- 
lion dollars' worth of adulterated or fraudulently labelled 
foods are sold each year in the United States ; that is, about 
10 per cent of the food output of this country is in some 
form or other dishonest either harmfully or harmlessly 
adulterated. Ten million pounds of adulterated and tainted 
foods was destroyed by the Food Inspectors of the Chicago 
Health Department in a single year. 

A general principle with reference to the chemistry of 
foods, which should be ever borne in mind, is this : " What- 
ever braces a food against decay braces it against diges- 
tion"; therefore all food preservatives render food more 
difficult of digestion and are harmful in this way, if in no 
other. Of sixty-seven commonly used food preservatives 
examined by the Government Chemist, the results were as 
follows : 

33 contained borax or boric acid. 

10 sodium, potassium or calcium sulphite. 

8 salicylic acid or its compounds. 

7 benzoic acid or its compounds. 

5 combinations of the above and other 

harmful substances. 

Doctor Wiley, the Government Chemist, very strongly 
condemns all these common food preservatives as being 
harmful to the health, The milkman may endeavor to turn 
water into milk, but it should be remembered that the baby 
cannot turn this adulterated milk into good blood. There 
can be little doubt that the improvement of the milk sup- 
ply in our towns and cities, so as to provide pure milk 
fresh, clean, and unadulterated would reduce the infant 
mortality 50 per cent. 

It should be remembered that the national pure-food law 
serves as a protection only in cases where food is shipped 
from one State into another. Protection against adul- 



132 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

terated foods which are sold in the State where they are 
manufactured, depends entirely upon the enactment and 
enforcement of strong State pure-food laws. 

One-third of all the food samples analyzed by the Illinois 
State Chemist a few years ago, were found adulterated. 
The importance of food adulteration increases year by year, 
as the American people are coming more and more to use 
manufactured foods; that is, foods prepared outside of the 
home. A generation ago a large per cent of the foods 
consumed were prepared in the household; but it is differ- 
ent to-day. The majority of foods, from the breadstuff s to 
the canned goods, consumed by the average household, is 
prepared outside of the home. 

ADULTERATION OF ANIMAL PRODUCTS 

Flesh foods are especially predisposed to the develop- 
ment of ptomaines and other poisons resulting from a mild 
degree of putrefaction. These foods would more properly 
be called "poisoned" foods, as they are not intentionally 
adulterated. Various diseases owe their origin to the eat- 
ing of the flesh of diseased animals animals suffering 
from tuberculosis, tapeworm, lumpy jaw, trichina, etc., as 
well as animal flesh containing various microbes which pro- 
duce mischief in the human body. 

Preserved meats. Salted meats are not only difficult of 
digestion, but chemical preservatives are frequently added 
to the brine. Smoked meats are often partly cooked, and 
cases are on record where they have been artificially col- 
ored with aniline dyes. The so-called " embalmed beef " 
is pickled or preserved by certain chemicals. Various 
liquid preservatives have been used in this way, the most 
common of which is boric acid, an irritating substance, 
producing poisoning symptoms in very large doses. Eighty 
grains to the gallon has been found to kill cats within four 
weeks. Borax (sodium borate) and formaldehyde have 
also been used in this process of pickling meats, both of 
which are injurious to the digestive system. 



POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 133 

Sausage. There can be little doubt that sausage is adul- 
terated when it is sold in the open market from one-half 
cent to one cent less per pound than the swine costs on the 
hoof. The North Dakota food inspector once found twenty 
to forty grains of boric acid to the pound in almost every 
sausage inspected. The common adulterants of sausages 
some harmful and others harmless are such substances as 
mashed potatoes, cornmeal, starch, and the flesh of other 
animals, while they are flavored with various spices, col- 
ored by artificial dyes, and preserved by such chemicals as 
salicylic acid, borax, and boric acid. 

Canned meats. Corned beef frequently contains chem- 
ical preservatives, while sardines are often preserved with 
cottonseed oil instead of olive oil. Artificial dye and 
salicylic acid are commonly found in canned salmon. Beef 
extract and beef tea are usually preserved with borax. 

Lard and mincemeat. The following adulterants have 
been found in lard examined in different parts of the coun- 
try: Alum, starch, cottosuet, cottolene, cottonseed oil and, 
in rare instances, lime. Mincemeat has been found pre- 
served with formaldehyde and sodium sulphate, both drugs 
highly irritant to the body. 

Eggs. Desiccated egg a preparation sold to bakers in 
our large cities is made from rotten eggs or from old 
cold-storage product. Eggs are also preserved beyond 
reasonable time by cold storage methods and by treating 
them with shellac or painting them with a preparation of 
silicate of soda. 

Fish and oyster poisoning. Serious outbreaks of pto- 
maine poisoning from the eating of fish and oysters, are 
commonly observed. It is dangerous to eat fish which has 
been out of the water very long, and especially dangerous to 
eat it more than twenty-four hours after it has been cooked. 
Boiled crabs are very quick to develop poisonous substances 
after cooking. Fatal cases of mussel poisoning have been 
frequently reported, as well as snail poisoning. Many of 
the large oyster beds are located near the sewer outlet of 



134 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

some great city, and this no doubt accounts for the varied 
symptoms of poisoning, sometimes extremely serious, which 
frequently result from eating oysters. Typhoid fever is also 
contracted from oysters. 

ADULTERATION OF DAIRY PRODUCTS 

As milk is a food so largely consumed by infants and 
children, its adulteration is a matter of serious importance 
highly criminal. Most of the States require that pure milk 
should contain about 12 per cent solids, and of butter fat 
at least 3 per cent, and that cows should not be fed on 
swill or slop. 

Milk adulterants. Milk is adulterated by skimming or 
the withholding of the strippings, producing an inferior 
quality. This is a crime against the babies who are com- 
pelled to use such milk. Watering is another common 
method of adulteration. Water used for this purpose some- 
times conveys typhoid fever and other disease germs. 
Aniline dyes are used to color the milk artificially, while 
poor milk is thickened with such substances as starch, chalk, 
glue, gelatine, and seaweed. 

Chemical preservatives. Among the common milk-pre- 
servatives is found benzoic acid, a substance very irritating 
to the organs of digestion and the kidneys. Salicylic acid, 
another product which prevents the action of the digestive 
ferments, deranging the stomach and kidneys, is also used 
as a milk preservative. Another common preservative is 
formaldehyde (a 40 per cent solution of formaline) a 
very powerful drug which has a tendency, in large doses, 
to destroy the red blood cells, besides being an intense ir- 
ritant to the mucous membrane. Still other harmful pre- 
servatives are boric acid, borax, and sodium carbonate. 

Milk contaminations. Milk may be contaminated by 
tuberculosis either the germ itself or the toxins of the 
germ; by anthrax; and by a disease of cattle contagious 
to man, called actinomycosis. The milk may be contami- 
nated in handling. Typhoid fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever, 



POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 135 

and even cholera and glanders have been traced to this 
source. 

Milk always contains a large number of harmless bac- 
teria. Their presence is not to be seriously regarded un- 
less their numbers are greatly increased. A safe standard 
for milk would be to keep the germs down to about 200,000 
per cubic centimetre, one-quarter teaspoonful. Many speci- 
mens of city milk have been found to contain from three 
million to five million germs per cubic centimetre. Dirty 
milk may also contain yeast, moulds, blood, pus, and other 
filth such as dirt and manure. 

Cream. The average legal standard for cream requires 
15 per cent fat, but much cream is sold that is below 
standard. Like milk, cream of poor quality is thickened 
by means of artificial substances such as corn starch and 
gelatine, while it is artificially colored and preserved by 
the same substances used in the adulteration of milk. 

Butter. The average State pure-food law requires that 
butter should contain from 80 to 83 per cent milk fat. 
It is adulterated with many substances. Such harmless 
artificial vegetable coloring as annatto and saffron are 
used, as well as the harmful mineral coal-tar dyes ; 
methyl orange is also used for this purpose. 

Butter is preserved more commonly with sodium bicar- 
bonate and benzoate of soda, both of which are harmful to 
the stomach and intestines when long used. Butter is also 
adulterated with other fats such as cottolene, lard, suet, 
cottonseed oil, etc. 

The average melting point for good dairy butter is 96.6 
degrees Fahrenheit. If butter melts much below this point, 
it indicates the addition of vegetable oils; while a high 
melting point indicates animal fats. The most common test 
for butter is the so-called " spoon test " heating butter 
over a flame in a large spoon. Olemargarine, adulterated 
butter, and re-processed butter, sputter but do not foam 
when heated, while genuine dairy butter foams profusely, 
but does not sputter. 

Renovated, or re-processed butter is made by taking 



136 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

rancid butter and neutralizing the acids by washing with 
soda, after which it is usually churned over with a little 
fresh milk for flavoring. It is dyed artificially, and sold by 
unscrupulous dealers as " fresh creamery butter." 

Cheese. Cheese is more largely adulterated by selling 
skim milk cheese for full cream cheese. The greatest 
danger from cheese is tyrotoxicon and ptomaine poison- 
ing. 

Ice cream. The common adulterants of ice cream are 
condensed milk and skim milk, while it is thickened with 
paraffine, corn starch, and flour. Preservatives and color- 
ing substances are the same as those used to adulterate 
milk. 

The frequent cases of poisoning from ice cream eaten 
at socials and elsewhere is due, not to the vanilla extract 
or other ingredients, but to the putrefaction of the milk, 
and is frequently caused by the same germs as those which 
produce cheese poisoning. 

Condensed milk. Many brands of condensed milk are 
adulterated with sugar, starch, and chemical preservatives. 
Some brands of milk claiming to be preserved by steriliza- 
tion only, are found to contain chemicals. 

ADULTERATION OF CEREALS 

Whole grain products are sometimes found to be poisoned 
with ergot (smut rye.) Flours are less frequently adul- 
terated in recent years, but have been found to contain 
alum a substance irritating to the digestive organs and 
producing constipation ; also ground rice and terra alba have 
been found as adulterants in flour. Buckwheat and pan- 
cake flours are frequently adulterated with cornmeal, while 
the majority of the gluten flours sold to-day are fraudulent 
in that they contain but little gluten or none at all above the 
average flour. Of eight samples purchased by the author 
sometime ago in the open markets of Chicago, but one 
sample was found to be genuine or in accordance with the 
printed claims upon the package. 



POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 137 

Breads and pastries. Baker's bread is frequently adul- 
terated with alum, as well as potato flour and copper sul- 
phate, while the loaf, when sold fresh, frequently weighs 
more than it should, because of the great amount of water 
it contains. Pies and cakes are commonly adulterated. 
Lemon pie is made with a starch paste filler and colored 
with aniline dyes. Pumpkin pies are made of flour and 
starch and artificially colored. Some time ago one of the 
Food Inspectors of the Chicago Health Department told 
the writer that about one-half of the pies examined were 
found more or less adulterated. 

Breakfast foods, etc. Fortunately, the majority of the 
flake breakfast foods, etc., upon the market are pure, but a 
large number of package foods are fraudulent in claims 
concerning being partially or wholly cooked; that is, they 
claim to require little or no cooking, whereas many of them 
have been barely heated sometimes merely run through 
hot rollers and in reality require from two to five hours 
cooking. A good many " health food " frauds are perpe- 
trated at the present time; all these foods should be looked 
into beyond their advertised claims. Macaroni and gluten 
are frequently fraudulent in that they are made from cheap 
grades of wheat low in protein. 

ADULTERATION OF CANNED GOODS, 

A source of slow poisoning in canned goods is from the 
lead contained in the tin cans. The author has seen speci- 
mens of tin cans containing from 10 to 12 per cent of 
lead. In Germany no cans are allowed to be manufactured 
which contain over i per cent of lead. The acid of the 
foods dissolves a portion of this lead, and this leads to 
poisoning. 

Canned goods are preserved by means of lead nitrate 
and copper sulphate, substances both highly irritating to 
the system. Certain zinc salts are also occasionally used, 
while artificial coloring is added to many canned goods, 
especially tomatoes and peas. Salicylic acid is more com- 



138 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

monly used in canned corn, string beans, and fruits. Ben- 
zoic acid and formaldehyde have also been detected. 

A common practice among large dealers in foods is to 
" re-process " their bad canned goods ; that is, take them 
out, heat them over, and re-can them. Fifty thousand cans 
of foods were recently destroyed by the Food Inspectors 
in one establishment in Chicago, which were about to be 
re-processed. Another form of food fraud is to soak dried 
fruits, can them, and sell them for fresh canned fruits. 

We meet with occasional cases of ptomaine poisoning 
from the eating of canned vegetables, probably due to the 
fact that the vegetables were decaying at the time they 
were canned, or to the leakage of the can, admitting air 
and permitting of subsequent decay. 

ADULTERATION OF SUGAR PRODUCTS. 

The adulteration of sugars, and especially candy, is of 
great interest because of the fondness of children for this 
particular kind of food. While many of the substances 
used for the adulteration of candy are more or less harm- 
less, many others are unquestionably harmful. 

Candy adulterants. Many candies are colored with veg- 
etable coloring matter which is entirely harmless; in others 
not so commonly as formerly aniline dyes are used. 
Aniline dyes and coal-tar dyes are identical. Some of 
these dyes are more harmful than others. Several years 
ago, a manufacturer of cheap candy was discovered buy- 
ing red paint by the barrel. The majority of these coal- 
tar dyes, if given in large doses, produce a fall of temper- 
ature, collapse, and convulsions. Some of these dyes will 
kill a guinea pig when injected in amounts of only one ten- 
thousandth of the body weight. 

A common test for the discovery of coal-tar dyes in 
candy is as follows: Dissolve colored candies in warm 
water and, after adding a few drops of hydrochloric acid, 
boil a piece of white flannel or other woollen cloth, five 
minutes. Remove and wash in clear water. If the coloring 



POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 139 

is " fast " and will not wash out, the dye is artificial (coal- 
tar) ; if the color washes entirely out of the flannel, the 
coloring of the candy is vegetable (harmless). 

Candy is not only flavored, in the majority of instances, 
with artificial flavoring, but also often contains other adul- 
terants such as starch, paraffine, and confection a white 
earthy substance. Glucose is frequently found, which in 
itself is not harmful, but when carelessly manufactured, 
often contains sulphuric acid. Saccharine, or chemical 
sugar, is used in the place of cane sugar, while talc, soap- 
stone, terra alba, ground plaster of Paris, and chrome yel- 
low (lead chromate) have been detected. 

Honey. Honey is not only made artificially, but is fre- 
quently adulterated with glucose, which is cheaper than 
cane sugar; while attempts have been made to make arti- 
ficial honeycomb from paraffine, and frequently the bees 
are fed on beet sugar and are thus made unconscious part- 
ners to a food fraud. 

Syrups and molasses. Sugar-cane syrup is not infre- 
quently adulterated with corn syrup. The average legal 
standard for maple syrup requires that not over 35 
per cent of water should be present, and that no other kind 
of sugar should be found. Maple sugar is adulterated with 
cane sugar, glucose, and treacle. The entire maple sugar 
output of the United States is only about 15 per cent of 
the amount of sugar that is sold under the name of maple 
sugar. 

Sugar. Cane sugar is made from the sugar cane plant 
and beets. Adulterants which have been occasionally found 
in sugar are such as marble-dust, sand, flour, rice, and terra 
alba. The most interesting adulterant, however, of sugar is 
a substance known as garantose or saccharine. This is a 
chemical substance which can hardly be called a food, which 
is extraordinarily sweet. You can taste one grain of it 
when dissolved in one gallon of water. It is five hundred 
and fifty times sweeter than cane sugar, and five hundred 
dollars worth of it is said to go just as far for sweetening 



140 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

purposes as ten thousand dollars worth of sugar. It prob- 
ably interferes with digestion, and cannot be regarded as a 
wholesome substitute for sugar. 

Jellies and jams. Most State food laws require that 
jellies consist only of boiled fruit juice and cane sugar, and 
yet we find jelly adulterated with glucose, gelatine, pump- 
.kin pulp, dextrine, and starch; flavored with artificial es- 
sences, and colored with artificial dyes; and to make the 
deception all the more complete, not infrequently millet 
and timothy seeds are found in artificial strawberry jelly, 
etc. Specimens of jelly have been analyzed which contain 
not a particle of the fruit from which they are supposed to 
be made. These artificial jellies are made from gelatine, 
glucose, salicylic acid, millet seeds, aniline dyes, and arti- 
ficial flavoring cane sugar not even being present. 

Jams are often adulterated with pumpkin pulp, aniline 
dyes, benzoic acid, as well as being made out of refuse 
fruits and vegetables, also with the addition of timothy and 
millet seeds. A specimen of artificial jam analyzed by the 
author several years ago, was found to consist largely of 
apple parings, timothy seeds, glucose, coal-tar dyes, and 
salicylic acid. 

ADULTERATION OF CONDIMENTS AND RELISHES 

Before the enactment of the Federal pure-food law, it 
was a very common practice to adulterate condiments, rel- 
ishes, etc., but this practice* has declined greatly as the re- 
sult of food legislation. 

Condiments. The reports of the various State chemists 
show that condiments have been adulterated as follows: 

Allspice: Adulterated with mustard, starch, ground 
cocoa shells and prune stones. 

Mustard: Adulterated with starch, flour, phosphates, sul- 
phates, and colored with turmeric root. 

Cloves: Adulterated with sand, starch, iron filings, 
wheat middlings, sawdust, and sandalwood. 



POISONED AND ADULTERATED FOODS 141 

Pepper: Adulterated with ground olive stones, shells, 
pea-meal, corn starch, sand, and iron dust. 

Ginger: Adulterated with sulphite of lime, rice, flour, 
and bran. 

Cinnamon: (Cassia there is but little genuine cinnamon 
on the market.) Adulterated with bran and sandalwood. 

Pickles and vinegar. Pickles have been adulterated with 
alum and copper sulphate, while vinegar is very commonly 
adulterated. The usual legal standard requires 4 per 
cent pure acetic acid, with no coloring matter. Cheap arti- 
ficial vinegar has been made from inferior vinegar, hydro- 
chloric and sulphuric acids, with the addition of water and 
burnt sugar, and is said to cost about one dollar a barrel. 

Tomato catsup. Tomato catsup is one of the most com- 
monly adulterated of the ordinary relishes. It has been 
found to contain saccharine, sodium benzoate, aniline dyes, 
benzoic acid, turmeric root, mustard, starch, potato, and 
squash. The Nebraska State Chemist found thirty different 
samples of tomato catsup to consist of the following: pump- 
kin, coal-tar dyes, benzoic acid, and timothy seeds not a 
trace of tomato to be found in any of them. 

Olive oil and flavoring extracts. Olive oil is very com- 
monly adulterated with cottonseed oil and corn oil. Flavor- 
ing extracts are very frequently adulterated. There are 
certain extracts which may be regarded as always artificial 
banana, raspberry, wild cherry, blackberry, and straw- 
berry. The common adulterants used for extracts are ani- 
line dyes, wood alcohol, and coloring substances such as 
caramel, dinitro-cresol, tropoelin, etc. Lemon extract is fre- 
quently adulterated with citrus or lemon-grass. A sample 
of artificial extract which was purchased for pineapple ex- 
tract, showed by analysis to be composed of 

Chloroform i part. 

Aldehyde I " 

Ethyl-butyrate 5 parts. 

Amyl-butyrate 10 

Glycerine 3 " 



142 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ADULTERATION OF BEVERAGES AND MEDICINES 

Chocolate and cocoa are among the beverages most com- 
monly adulterated, and for such purposes use has been made 
of flour, sugar, wheat, starch, animal foods, oxide of iron, 
terra alba, arrowroot starch, potato starch, and corn starch. 
There is also a slight danger of lead contamination from tin- 
foil, when it is directly in contact with chocolate. 

Tea and coffee. Tea has been found adulterated with 
gypsum, china clay, soapstone, sand, also ash and willow 
leaves; while coffee has been adulterated with such harmless 
substances as acorns, cereals, figs, etc. We have also heard 
of clay coffee beans, while chicory is a common adulterant 
of coffee and cannot be regarded as wholesome. 

Soft drinks. Fruit juices are frequently or wholly arti- 
ficial. Salicylic and benzoic acids are used as preservatives, 
and aniline dyes for coloring. Much of the soda and min- 
eral water on the market is artificial, being made in the lab- 
oratory. 

Medicines. In this connection, much could be said con- 
cerning the harmfulness of patent medicines and other se- 
cret nostrums, but space will not permit ; suffice it to call at- 
tention to the fact that even a physician's prescription is not 
always honestly compounded for the patient. Some time 
ago, investigators for a certain State Board of Pharmacy 
made a test of one hundred and thirty-nine prescriptions, 
twenty-three of which contained not a trace of the drug 
called for, sixty-six were 80 per cent impure, and ten were 
20 per cent impure. It is to be hoped that such conditions as 
these will improve. 

The pure- food law has done much to lessen the sale of 
alcohol, cocaine, and other compounds containing habit- 
producing drugs, inasmuch as it compels the honest labelling 
of compounds containing these substances. It is no longer 
necessary to take these enslaving drugs in ignorance, as 
preparations containing them have it stated plainly upon 
package or bottle label. 



CHAPTER XI 
SIMPLE EATING, OR THE NOURISHED LIFE 

THE BALANCED RATION. THOROUGH MASTICATION. THE APPE- 
TITE. THE COOKING PROBLEM. RAW FOODS. MEAL HOURS. 
THE MENTAL STATE. FOOD COMBINATIONS. GOOD COMBINA- 
TIONS. FAIR COMBINATIONS. BAD COMBINATIONS. SPECIAL 

DIET LISTS. 

IT is literally true that we are made from what we eat. 
The indifference of the American people to the science 
and art of eating is truly amazing. For purely commercial 
reasons, some have given earnest study to scientific cattle- 
feeding, but there are very few people in this country who 
are acquainted with the principles of scientific self-feeding. 
Thousands of dollars are spent by the Government to pro- 
mote the health of hogs and advance the science of cattle- 
feeding, but not a cent to preserve the lives and promote the 
science of baby-feeding. 

THE BALANCED RATION 

Good digestion and sound health demand that our daily 
ration should be fairly well balanced. That is, our meals 
should not consist altogether of starchy foods or sugar, nor 
should they be composed exclusively of proteins nitrog- 
enous foods. In harmony with the principles outlined in 
the chapter on Nutrition, there should be a balancing of the 
bill of fare, so that the various food elements which are re- 
quired to nourish the body and to furnish the heat and 
energy, may be proportionately present in the food eaten. 

To illustrate, one would not want to make a meal of 
meat, potatoes, bread and butter, with beans and cheese 
added. This would afford altogether too much protein. 
Neither should a meal consist entirely of fruit and veg- 

143 



144 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

etables. There would be then a deficiency both of protein 
and fat. Rice, fruit, and nuts would produce a pretty well 
balanced bill of fare for a single meal. There is great 
danger of eating too many nuts at a time, as they are highly 
concentrated. They are used in the place of legumes, meat, 
and eggs. There is also great danger of eating too great a 
quantity of dried beans and peas. 

By careful study of the tables in the chapter on Nu- 
trition, the amount of food required for a person of given 
height and weight can be readily ascertained, and then by 
reference to the food tables found at the back of the book, 
the amount of either raw or cooked foods which will be 
required to supply the desired number of calories for each 
meal, will appear at once. A further study of the food 
tables will make it plain just what combination of foods 
at one's disposal will properly balance the bill of fare 
so as to provide the desired amount of protein, fat, 
carbohydrates, etc. The salt and cellulose will take care 
of themselves except in such cases as children with rickets, 
who probably require an extra amount of salts, or in cases 
of chronic constipation, which make it wise to provide food 
with considerable of cellulose. 

THOROUGH MASTICATION 

Proper chewing is the great secret of good digestion. 
Many persons in robust health are able to bolt their food 
regularly for years without discerning symptoms of dyspep- 
sia, but all the while indigestion and dyspepsia in some 
form await them, as it were, disguised around the corner, 
and sooner or later they will recognize the painful protest 
of the long-abused stomach. 

Of the many fads and fancies of the present generation 
regarding diet, there is one that probably has come to stay, 
and that is the recent agitation looking toward a more thor- 
ough mastication of the food, commonly called " Fletcher- 
izing," in honor of that extraordinary layman, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher, who, by his unaided efforts and his phenomenal 
personal experience, has succeeded in directing the attention 



SIMPLE EATING 145 

of the scientific and medical world to his remarkable claims 
of increased health and nutrition and the cure of his chronic 
dyspepsia, as a result of thorough mastication. 

We are aware that physicians have arisen to condemn the 
practice of prolonged mastication as injurious to the health, 
productive of constipation, and various other diseases of 
digestion and nutrition. The author is free to admit that 
while he does not believe in mastication as a fetish, as a 
cure-all, or as the sum and substance of the hygiene of di- 
gestion, he recognizes " Fletcherism " as one of the great 
factors in the cure of dyspepsia, and recognizes its great 
advantages in the treatment of stomach disorders. At the 
same time, he recognizes the disadvantage of immoderately 
dwelling upon mastication as a table topic, and otherwise 
keeping the mind concentrated upon any phase of the proc- 
ess of digestion. 

There can be no doubt that mastication can be overdone ; 
that too little food can be eaten. The teaching that all 
food which cannot be completely liquefied in the mouth 
should be rejected, and that only purely liquid portions 
should be swallowed, is certainly extreme. The author be- 
lieves in rational, thorough, simple mastication, but not in 
any such extreme teachings as would lead to the rejection 
of every bit of fruit, vegetable, or cereal pulp that cannot 
be completely liquefied. Some people seem to do well on 
the practice of rejecting the cellulose pulp of the fruits and 
vegetables. Others suffer more or less from intestinal in- 
activity when undertaking to carry out this plan of eating. 
We concede that the theory of doing without cellulose, 
like that of doing without butter, is all right in itself, 
but the actual facts seem to indicate as certain experi- 
ments also suggest that a certain amount of bulk in the 
food favors intestinal activity, especially in the case of 
those who are predisposed to sluggishness of the bowel. 
We urge upon all thorough mastication as a scientific pre- 
requisite to good digestion, and while some physicians or 
lay-enthusiasts may have seized upon this important physical 
truth and carried it to extremes, we feel none the less en- 



146 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

thusiastic about real physiologic mastication of food, or 
" Fletcherism " as we understand and practise it. 

We do not believe in any rule or set regulation for chew- 
ing food a certain number of times or anything of that kind. 
While there is an occasional person whose health and diges- 
tion might be interfered with by over-mastication and con- 
sequent under-eating, we feel that ninety-nine out of a hun- 
dred of those with healthy or sick stomachs would have their 
health and nutrition greatly improved by employing more 
mastication than is generally practised. 

The advantages of thorough mastication may be briefly 
summarized as follows: 

1. Mouth digestion is the only part of the process of 
human digestion and metabolism which the man himself 
controls. If we start our food right in the mouth, where 
we control the muscles and are, therefore, responsible for 
digestion, Nature, all things being equal, will carry on the 
rest of the process with her customary accuracy and faith- 
ful attention to every detail. 

2. While some species of serpents or crocodiles may have 
rudimentary teeth in the throat, man has no grinding 
mechanism below the mouth. Food that is not masticated 
properly in the mouth will greatly delay digestion, as the 
stomach ordinarily allows no solid food to pass its por- 
tals unless it has become thoroughly exhausted with pre- 
vious efforts to empty itself when overloaded, or filled with 
unmasticated food. 

3. The fundamental principle connected with the new 
science of mastication, is that all solid foods should be 
liquefied as far as possible before swallowing. This does 
not mean that all foods such as fruits and other sub- 
stances containing cellulose should be converted into a 
water-like liquid, but rather that the food in the mouth 
should be converted into a liquid or semi-liquid, pasty mass, 
in which all solid particles have been finely subdivided and 
thus prepared for the action of the gastric juice when swal- 
lowed into the stomach. 



SIMPLE EATING 147 

4. Another cardinal principle of the new science of mas- 
tication is that most natural foods, being of an acid flavor, 
should be retained in the mouth a sufficient length of time 
to become more or less alkalinize'd by the action of the 
alkaline saliva. This is especially the case with persons 
suffering from acid dyspepsia, sour stomach, etc. 

5. Another important object of liquefying the food in the 
mouth is that the flavoring substances may become dis- 
solved, so as to be able to circulate around the taste-buds 
at the base of the tongue; for the proper digestion of food 
in the stomach, the secretion of the gastric juice etc., are 
largely dependent upon the taste of the food in the mouth. 

(Fig. 15-) 

6. Starch is digested by saliva. The mouth is a real 
organ of digestion. The food should remain in it long 
enough to permit this starch-digestion to be thoroughly be- 
gun. 

7. Thorough mastication is the one sure way to prevent 
overeating in fact, the only safe way. When, as the re- 
sult of proper mastication, all food is tasted preparatory 
to being swallowed, Nature will remove the appetite when a 
sufficient amount of food has been eaten. 

8. If you " Fletcherize " your food properly, your taste 
will become more and more reliable in the selection of 
proper foods. The more one chews his food, the more 
natural becomes his taste and appetite. 

9. Thorough mastication renders all the rest of the 
processes of digestion and assimilation easier, and accord- 
ingly promotes the entire process of bodily nutrition. 

10. The gastric juice penetrates solid food at the rate of 
only one millimetre (1-25 of an inch) an hour. Therefore, 
insufficient mastication must surely delay the process of di- 
gestion. 

11. If all food eaten liquids as well as solids (except 
water) is properly " Fletcherized," one will gradually 
lose the taste for the great majority of foods and bev- 
erages which are injurious and unwholesome. 



148 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

THE APPETITE 

A good appetite ordinarily is evidence of good digestion. 
The digestion is seldom good when the appetite is poor. 
If you have a poor appetite, the thing of first importance 
is to look yourself over and find out what you can do to 
get a good, sharp, keen appetite for food. Are you getting 
a proper amount of physical exercise? Do you drink a 
sufficient amount of water? Take an inventory of your 
physical habits, and do not rest satisfied until you have 
gotten that greatest of all food sauces a good appetite. 
And just in proportion as you improve your appetite, you 
will find that you are improving your digestion. Appetite 
is, therefore, not only the call of the nervous system 
Nature's demand for food but it is also the system's 
promise to digest and assimilate properly the food that is 
eaten in response to its call. 

In the chapter on Digestion, attention was called to the 
fact that appetite plays an important role in the secretion 
of the gastric juice, so much so that the juice present dur- 
ing the first half of digestion has come to be known as 
" appetite juice." 

Certain stomach bitters and alcoholic beverages improve 
the appetite and, by increasing the " appetite juice," are 
able temporarily to improve the digestion. Alcohol prob- 
ably accomplishes its deceptive work along these lines by 
lessening mental anxiety and producing a more comfortable 
and peaceful state of mind at meal time. These are false 
methods of creating a good appetite, and while they confer 
transitory help in this direction, in the end the appetite will 
be found all the worse for this medical abuse. In the same 
manner, many of the harmful condiments and relishes may 
improve the appetite, thereby aiding digestion for the time 
being, but at the expense of irritating and congesting the 
digestive system, and laying the foundation for catarrh and 
other diseased conditions. 

The human appetite will probably never become a wholly 
safe guide in the wise and hygienic selection of food, be- 






Cl 




SIMPLE EATING 149 

ing a highly specialized nervous function and subject to 
so many disturbing influences, as well as being so largely 
a creature of education and habit. It will probably be 
found necessary constantly to guide and correct its choice 
by the higher centres of human reason and scientific judg- 
ment. 

THE COOKING PROBLEM 

The cook-stove is a great blessing to modern civilization. 
Especially is it of value in the preparation of starches, 
which must be either thoroughly boiled or baked, in order 
to be easily digested. But we must recognize that there is 
an abuse as well as a use of the cook-stove, as there are 
vast numbers of foods which to-day are so carefully and 
elaborately cooked, which would be just as wholesome raw; 
in fact, many of them would be more easy of digestion. 
Much of our modern cooking and mixing of food together 
renders it more difficult of digestion and assimilation, in- 
stead of increasing its nutritional value. At present, the 
cook-stove is being greatly over-used, for, as a rule, the 
more simple the cooking, the more likely the food will 
have its value increased from a health standpoint. 

Certain scientific principles involved in cooking are but 
little understood. Much as we would like to discuss this 
subject at length, it cannot be done here. We desire, how- 
ever, to emphasize that the cook should be a person of 
scientific training. Of all the household servants, human 
health and happiness demands, on the part of the cook, the 
greatest intelligence, together with such thorough under- 
standing of foodstuffs as will enable her properly to combine 
and prepare the daily ration. The cook should know the 
nutritive value of foods, heat-producing qualities, good and 
bad combinations, and also the protein content of various 
foods, that each meal may be fairly well balanced in this 
respect. But like the science of eating, the science of 
cooking is just dawning, and the cooks of the well-regu- 
lated household in the coming generation, will not be the 



150 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

untutored immigrants or the ignorant natives who have 
been unable to secure other employment. 

Cooking is a science yea, an art and it is because it 
is so miserably practised to-day, that many kitchens could 
truly be denominated the " vestibules of the saloon," and 
the cook charged with being unconsciously, but none the 
less practically, in partnership with the saloon-keeper and 
the undertaker. 

The original diet of primitive man was undoubtedly one 
of great simplicity. The aborigines subsisted largely upon 
a simple diet of cereals, fruits, and nuts. The cooking prob- 
lem in such a diet is very simple merely a matter of boil- 
ing and baking the starches and breadstuffs, as both fruits 
and nuts when ripe are very properly eaten in the raw 
state. (Fig. 16.) The addition of flesh to the dietary and 
the preparation of the thousand and one special dishes, has 
enormously complicated the problem of cookery, much to 
the distress of the average stomach and the disturbance of 
the health and happiness of the race. 

RAW FOODS 

Eat some fresh, raw food each day. At least at one 
meal, eat something which is uncooked. We do not for 
a moment believe in or advocate the " raw food " fads of 
the day. The raw food system is all right until it touches 
the cereals. The eating of raw starches is about the most 
unscientific dietetic fad which has arisen in our day. We 
have shown before that all starches should be cooked be- 
fore being eaten. The longer they are. cooked, the better; 
but all ripe fruits, many vegetables, and most nuts, are better 
eaten raw. 

If one cannot get good, raw, fresh food in the form of 
fresh fruits, vegetables, or nuts, the next best thing is the 
dried fruits. Raisins, figs, dates, or even prunes, are ex- 
cellent eaten raw. Of course, prunes should be soaked be- 
fore they are eaten. Both raisins and prunes are excellent 
stewed, but if there is a scarcity of fruits or vegetables, 




Raw 




Cooked 5farch 



Fl G. 1 6. - J5ho wmj eFFsct of conking nn stanch granules'. 



SIMPLE EATING 151 

we would suggest the eating of these foods uncooked. Ap- 
ples and oranges are ideal fresh foods. 

Certain digestive principles very valuable to the processes 
of digestion and assimilation are found in many raw foods, 
which are destroyed by the process of cooking. The baked 
apple cannot resist the growth of germs as well as the 
raw apple. Boiled milk is probably better for the health 
under certain conditions, because disease germs are killed 
by the boiling; nevertheless, the boiling kills certain di- 
gestive ferments or enzymes found in the raw milk. This 
is the reason for Pasteurizing milk instead of boiling it. 
Heating milk to about one hundred and fifty-five degrees 
for twenty minutes, kills or cripples the greater number 
of the germs, but does not destroy this important digestive 
ferment. 

It is for the sake of securing these natural enzymes or 
digestive ferments as an aid to digestion and nutrition, 
that we advise the eating of some raw, fresh food at least 
once a day. There is little excuse for not having abundance 
of fresh, uncooked food during the summer season, and 
by a little planning, it will be possible to have at least some 
dried or canned fruits during the winter. 

MEAL HOURS. 

Those having regular hours of work will find it best to 
take their meals at regular hours. Regularity and period- 
icity constitute one of the supreme laws of Nature. But 
notwithstanding this, it is certainly a mistake to eat a 
hearty meal when one is not hungry, just because it is 
meal time. If the appetite were normal and natural, it 
would probably be a safe guide to tell us when to eat as 
well as what to eat, but appetite, being an expression of 
the nervous system, is more or less a creature of education. 
We can train our appetites into right or wrong habits or 
tastes. This one thing we are quite sure of if one is ex- 
traordinarily hungry and has not eaten within six or eight 
hours, the digestion is pretty sure to be good, and if reason- 



152 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

able judgment be exercised in choosing the food eaten, there 
is little likelihood of having indigestion or other trouble 
from the meal, even though eaten at irregular hours or 
quite late in the evening. 

Always keep the appetite and the sense of taste under the 
censorship and watchful care of enlightened reason and 
judgment. Through hereditary influence, false training, 
etc., the average sense of taste is far from being nat- 
ural and normal; and while we constantly seek so to 
train our appetite that it shall express the real needs and 
demands of the body, at the same time it behooves us 
closely to scrutinize its choosings during the period of its re- 
education. 

The arrangement of meal hours is always somewhat in- 
fluenced by the employment and other demands upon the 
individual's time. If three meals a day are eaten, it will 
be found best to make one of the meals rather light 
let it consist largely of fruit and other simple foods easy 
of digestion. 

If two meals only are eaten, they will both be fairly 
hearty, and if it is possible to choose the meal hours, we 
would suggest about nine o'clock for breakfast and five 
o'clock for dinner. We recognize that the vast majority of 
people cannot eat at these hours. The author is unable to 
get his meals at such ideal hours, and has, therefore, for 
many years practically adopted the no-breakfast plan 
eating near the middle of the day and again at six o'clock, 
when reaching home from the day's work at medical office, 
hospital, etc. 

It is a fact of unusual significance that while science is 
rapidly gaining the conquest of the majority of the con- 
tagious or so-called " germ-caused " diseases, at the same 
time, the diseases due to errors of diet and nutrition to 
evils of indigestion and faulty metabolism are enormously 
on the increase, including such diseases as dyspepsia, con- 
stipation, neurasthenia, Bright's disease, diabetes, rheuma- 
tism, appendicitis, liver diseases, cancer, etc. 



SIMPLE EATING 153 

THE MENTAL STATE 

Pawlow showed the process of digestion to be regulated 
largely by the mental state, as well as by the sense of 
taste. One who is in a bad state of mind, having a sour 
disposition, is quite likely to have a sour stomach. The 
enjoyment of food, the degree of hunger, the pleasure of 
eating, the freedom of the mind from care, worry, and grief, 
all contribute mightily to healthy digestion and to the pre- 
vention of dyspepsia, with all its train of woes and suffer- 
ing. 

An effort should be made to make the meal hour the most 
pleasant of the day. If you are eating alone, in public res- 
taurants, under no circumstances should you indulge taxing 
and troublesome thoughts. Lay your mental work and 
plans aside; let the meal hour be devoted to the pleasure 
of eating, to the intelligent gratification of appetite, to the 
full and free enjoyment of the food. Meal time is no place 
to discuss diet or food tables, or even to think of them. 
Give these' matters attention before the time of eating, and 
let the hour at the table be one of good cheer and social 
intercourse. Dismiss all problems, all attempts at family- 
regulation and child-training. Let the table topics run along 
the lighter vein of life, for laughter is a barometer not only 
of mental happiness, but also of physical health. 

FOOD COMBINATIONS 

Combinations of all classes of foods are fairly well di- 
gested by persons with strong stomachs, especially if they 
thoroughly masticate their food. On the other hand, those 
with crippled digestive powers, especially those suffering 
from stomach indigestion, will find it important to give care- 
ful attention to the food combination at the table. Even 
people with strong stomachs and good digestion, unless they 
most carefully and thoroughly masticate their food, will 
discover that certain articles of diet disagree with them 
when eaten in connection with certain other foods. 



154 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

In the treatment of stomach disorders, the question of 
proper and improper food combinations is highly important. 
While the question of individual peculiarity has much to 
do with the matter of food combinations, there are certain 
general principles of quite universal application. 

Without going into detail, the following classification in- 
dicates good, fair, and bad combinations: 

GOOD COMBINATIONS 

Fruits and Grains. Grains and Milk. 

Grains and Meat or Eggs. Grains and Vegetables. 

Grains and Nuts. Grains and Legumes. 

FAIR COMBINATIONS 
Grains with sweet Fruits and Milk 
Meat or Eggs with Vegetables. 
Nuts and Vegetables. 

BAD COMBINATIONS 

Fruits and Vegetables. Sour Fruits and Milk. 

Milk and Vegetables. Milk and Meat. 

SPECIAL DIET LISTS 

While the purpose of this work is to present the hygienic 
management of the healthy stomach and to discuss diet as 
related to normal digestion, it may not be out of place, at the 
close of this chapter, to present certain lists of foods which 
are especially adapted to meeting and treating a number of 
common disorders of digestion and nutrition. 

I. Peptogenic foods those which increase the secretion 
of gastric juice. To be used in poor appetite and slow di- 
gestion. 

1. Concentrated fruit sugars. 

Malt preparations, prunes, figs, raisins, dates, 
dried sweet fruits. 

2. Concentrated fresh fruit juices. 

Apple juice, blackberry juice, blueberry juice, 
grape juice, orange juice, peach juice, pear 
juice, pineapple juice, plum juice, raspberry 
juice, strawberry juice. 



SIMPLE EATING 155 

3. Concentrated vegetable juices. 

Soups and broths of the following vegetables: 
Asparagus, beans, celery, peas, corn, potato, 
spinach, tomato, carrots. 

4. Well dextrinized (baked or toasted) cereals. 

Zwieback or toasted bread, toasted crackers, 
well-parched corn, toasted flaked cereals, thor- 
oughly baked mushes, browned rice. 

5. Meat broths. 

II. Foods which lessen the secretion of gastric juice. 

Indicated in all cases of hyperacidity, sour stomach, heart- 
burn, etc. 

1. Fats lessen the secretion of hydrochloric acid. 

a. Animal fats. 

Flesh fat, butter, cream. 

b. Vegetable fats. 

Ripe olives, olive oil, nuts, especially 
Brazil nuts, filberts, pecans, pine nuts, 
and- peanuts. 

2. Protein combines with the acid in the stomach, 

thereby lessening its harmful effects. The fol- 
lowing protein foods are especially valuable: 
Cottage cheese, gluten mush, white of egg, but- 
termilk, lean meat, milk, peas, beans, lentils. 

III. Laxative Foods. 

1. All forms of sugar, especially fruit sugar, honey, 

syrups, malt. All the concentrated fruit juices. 
Sweet fruits, such as figs, raisins, prunes, fruit 
jellies, etc. 

2. All sour fruits and fruit acids. 

Apples, grapes, gooseberries, grape fruit, cur- 
rants, plums, tomatoes (buttermilk and kou- 
miss). 

3. Fruit juices, especially from sour fruits. 

Grape juice, lemonade, fruit soup. 

4. All foods rich in fat. 

Butter, cream, eggs, eggnog, ripe olives, olive 
oil, nuts, especially pecans and Brazil nuts. 

5. All foods rich in cellulose. 

Wheat and corn flakes, asparagus, cauliflower, 
spinach, sweet potatoes, green corn and pop- 



156 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

corn, graham flour preparations and oatmeal 
foods, whole wheat preparations, apples, black- 
berries, cherries, cranberries, melons, oranges, 
peaches, pineapples, plums, whortleberries, raw 
cabbage, celery, greens, lettuce, onions, parsnips, 
turnips, Lima beans, peanuts. 

IV. Constipating Foods. 

1. Liquid and semi-liquid foods which contain little 

or no solid residue. Most soups, gruels, etc. 

2. Rice, fine flour white bread, corn starch and 

other purely starchy foods. 

3. Iceland moss, gelatin, etc. 

4. White of eggs and boiled milk. 

5. Rice and tapioca puddings. 

6. Gluten mush and most of the purely protein 

foods, such as the lean meats. 

V. Aseptic Foods. Useful in catarrh of the stomach 
and bowels, flatulency, etc. 

1. All the peptogenic foods (List I) are indirectly 

aseptic, in that they increase the secretion of 
the gastric juice, which is germicidal. 

2. All fresh fruit juice, especially the acid fruit 

juices of: grapes, gooseberries, grape fruit, 
oranges, lemons, plums, sour apples. 

3. Dextrinized cereals. 

Zwieback, toast, toasted flake cereals, baked po- 
tatoes, browned rice, etc. 

4. Non-flesh diet. 

Fresh fruit, berries, etc., fruit soup, nuts. 

5. Buttermilk and koumiss. 

VI. Blood-making Foods. Useful in anaemia and emacia- 
tion. 

1. Yolks of eggs raw or soft-boiled. 

2. Spinach and tomatoes because of their iron. 

3. Potatoes and green vegetables because of their 

salts. 

4. The nuts because of protein and fat. 

5. Malt preparations non-alcoholic. 

6. Legumes bean and pea soup and purees. 



SIMPLE EATING 157 

VII. Fattening Foods. 

1. All foods rich in fat such as: 

Butter, olives, olive oil, fat meats, nuts, corn 
and oats, cheese, eggs, milk, cream. 

2. All foods rich in starch. 

The cereals, breads, pastries, etc. 

3. All foods rich in sugar. 

Sugar, syrups, malt, honey, beets, sweet fruits, 
etc. 

4. Foods easy of digestion and assimilation. 

VIII. Diabetic Foods. 

1. Fats in moderate amount, butter, etc. 

2. Proteins, especially in the form of nuts and cot- 

tage cheese. 

3. Most of the acid fruits, apples, etc. 

4. Most of the vegetables, except beets. 

5. Baked potatoes small amount. While they 

contain starch, their salts aid in alkalinizing the 
blood and thereby increase oxidation of sugar. 

6. Gluten bread and biscuits. 
7- Eggs. 

8. Buttermilk and koumiss. 

9. Spinach, greens, and artichokes. 

IX. Antiacid Foods for acid dypepsia, etc. 

1. Fats of all kinds. 

Butter, cream, milk, yolk of eggs, nuts, ripe 
olives, olive oil. 

2. Protein foods. 

Lean meats, white of eggs, nut meats, eggnog. 
cottage cheese. 

3. Cold or frozen foods. (Especially in ulcer of the 

stomach.) 

Frozen malted milk, frozen malted nuts, ice 

cream, frozen malt honey. 

4. Toasts and Zwieback. 

5. Toasted flake foods. 

X. Liquid Foods for gastric ulcer, etc. 

1. Rice and gluten gruels. 

2. Potato porridge. 

3. Legume soups and broths. 



158 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

4. Vegetable soups and broths. 

5. Koumiss and buttermilk. 

6. Eggnog. 

XI. Anti-fat Foods, for obesity. 

1. Limit the amount of daily food. 

2. Restrict the diet to two or three articles. 

3. Avoid all fatty foods. 

4. Avoid liquid foods. 

5. Select diet from the following: 

Buttermilk, hard breads, eggs, vegetable broths, 
gluten mush, sour apples and sour fruits, ba- 
nanas, lemon, celery, tomatoes, greens. 

XII. Rheumatism, gout, and neuralgia, including sick 
headache, Bright's disease, arterio-sclerosis, etc. 

1. Avoid rich foods, meats, tea, and coffee. 

2. Use foods under aseptic diet (List V) except 

meat broths. 

3. Some cases should avoid milk, cheese, and other 

foods high in protein. 



CHAPTER XII 
MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 

TOO GREAT A VARIETY. EXTREMES OF TEMPERATURE. EATING TOO 

MUCH. THAT "ALL GONE" FEELING. EATING TOO OFTEN. 
TEA AND COFFEE. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. THE TRUTH ABOUT 
ALCOHOL. THE TRUTH ABOUT FOODS. CANE SUGAR. THE 

SALT QUESTION. EXCESS OF PROTEIN. PROTEIN ASHES. CON- 
DIMENTS. MUSHES AND PASTRIES. PERVERTED TASTE. LIQUID 

FOODS. FOOD PREPARATION. DRINKING AT MEALS. ERRORS OF 
COOKING. PHYSICAL AND MENTAL WORK. 

THE stomach has to contend, not only with the dyspep- 
sia-producing complexities of modern cooking, but as 
well must it fight with the unhygienic combinations of vari- 
ous foods. One of our modern dietetic sins is that of mul- 
tiplicity of dishes. 

TOO GREAT A VARIETY 

The average American citizen undertakes to eat alto- 
gether too many different kinds of food at a single meal. 
Professor Pawlow, the great Russian investigator, has 
shown that the digestive juices of the stomach are secreted 
to suit each type of meal. In view of this wonderful dis- 
covery, it must be clear that our modern " course dinners," 
supplying from ten to twenty different kinds of food, are 
very difficult for the stomach to digest and dispose of prop- 
erly. The best practice is to eat two or three different kinds 
of food at each meal, changing these foods from meal to 
meal, so as to present a small variety at any one meal, but 
ever changing from day to day. 

EXTREMES OF TEMPERATURE 

It is well to avoid extremes of temperature in eating. 
Do not take food too hot or too cold into the stomach. 

159 



160 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Cold food is in every way suitable to the warm season, but 
the average stomach will get along better with more or 
less warm food during the winter. Foods that are too hot 
not only blunt the sense of taste and injure the mouth, but 
they also debilitate the stomach and weaken digestion. 
Likewise ices and ice-cold foods, especially ice-water, hinder 
and delay digestion by lowering the stomach temperature 
greatly below the digestion point, namely, one hundred de- 
grees, which is the temperature essential to good digestive 
action. 

EATING TOO MUCH 

The average individual eats entirely too much. There are 
probably few people who eat too little, but it is our opinion 
that nine persons out of ten eat too much. Overeating is 
an almost universal physical transgression. This dietetic 
sin would be greatly helped, if not entirely removed, by 
proper mastication of the food. The reader is referred to 
discussion of this subject in the preceding chapter. 

Many are eating three times a day, with lunches between 
meals, who would do better if they ate only two meals a 
day. Some people seem to do better on three meals; others 
on two. It is worth while for you to give the matter of the 
number of meals you should eat a fair trial, and so learn 
whether the two-meal or the three-meal system is best 
suited to your constitution and your work. 

FEELING 

Many, when they go without the third meal, or without 
a customary lunch between meals, have what they call an 
" all gone " feeling in the region of the stomach. In the 
majority of cases, this "all gone" feeling is not Nature's 
call for food, but is rather a protest on the part of the 
tender and inflamed lining of the stomach, expressing its 
sensitive and inflamed condition; it really constitutes a 
warning against taking food, or, at least, against an irri- 
tating or oversupply of food. This unpleasant sensation 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS l6l 

is relieved by eating, because the taking of food distends 
the stomach, thus separating its inflamed walls and thereby 
temporarily removing the source of this distressing and un- 
pleasant sensation. 

What is usually needed, when one experiences this " all 
gone " feeling in the stomach, is a drink of pure water, 
either hot or cold. If this does not soon relieve the un- 
pleasant sensation, go at once into the open air and indulge 
in deep-breathing exercises for several minutes. Follow 
this by deep pressure upon the abdomen, just below the 
stomach, and this will usually afford relief. A drink of 
water will not properly satisfy a real, genuine appetite, but 
it will frequently fully satisfy a false or " habit appetite." 

EATING TOO OFTEN 

If the proverbial eight-hour rule of the labor unions were 
applied to the stomach, much indigestion, constipation, and 
other dyspepsia suffering would be avoided. By this we 
mean to allow at least eight hours between all meals. 
Some people with slow digestion, especially if addicted to 
eating foods difficult of digestion, require from five to six 
hours to empty the stomach, and it should be remembered 
that the stomach is a muscular sac which grows weary from 
its work like any other muscle. The stomach muscle requires 
periods of rest between its periods of work, the same as 
other muscles. Therefore, when the stomach is frequently 
called upon to do extra work, or the food is under-masti- 
cated, it is much overworked in digesting a single meal and 
requires not only its normal period of rest between meals, 
but even extra time for rest and recuperation. 

Even the heart muscle, in the course of its apparently 
never-ceasing work, is allowed a little rest between beats; 
and so the stomach will be able to do much better work in 
disposing of the meal to follow, if it has had a chance to 
rest for a few hours from the work of digesting the pre- 
ceding meal. It is true that the eight hours between meals 
may necessitate taking only two meals a day, but experience 
and observation have proved that a vast majority of people 



1 62 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

will do just as well on two meals as they do on three, or 
even better. 

TEA AND COFFEE 

In addition to the foods enumerated as poison foods in 
the chapter on Food Adulteration, there are certain other 
foods or beverages commonly taken into the stomach, which 
might very properly be termed poison foods. While they 
contain very little or none of the nutritious elements, they 
do contain certain elements which are more or less poison- 
ous. Tea and coffee may be said to belong to this class, as 
they contain practically no nourishment. Such nourish- 
ment as they do possess is obtained from the sugar and 
cream added to them. On the other hand, they contain cer- 
tain narcotic substances which are injurious to health, es- 
pecially to the health of the nervous system. This substance 
in coffee is known as caffeine, while tea contains a similar 
poison called theine, and, in addition, a harmful astringent 
tannic acid. There can be no doubt that the human 
race would be better off if these beverages had never been 
discovered; and many cases of nervousness, dyspepsia, and 
constipation would be either greatly helped or entirely re- 
lieved, if these beverages were banished from our tables. 

Among other beverages which are not altogether harm- 
less may be mentioned ordinary breakfast cocoa, which con- 
tains a narcotic substance called theobromine, which is 
closely related to the narcotics contained in tea and coffee, 
but is not nearly so harmful in its action. The objections 
to tea and coffee as beverages may be summarized as fol- 
lows: 

1. They encourage the taking of liquids at meal time, 
usually in inordinate quantities, thereby diluting and weak- 
ening the digestive juices of both mouth and stomach. 

2. They are stimulants, or more truly narcotics, in 
their real effects upon the nervous system, and are not 
foods, their only food value being due to the addition of 
sugar and cream. 

3. They are medicines drugs caffeine being one of 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 163 

the common headache remedies used by physicians; there- 
fore they should be used, not habitually as beverages, but 
only upon the prescription of a competent physician. 

4. They deteriorate the secretion of the digestive juices 
in the mouth and stomach, and thereby delay and derange 
digestion. 

5. The tannic acid of tea possesses a harmful astringent 
action upon the mucous membrane of the stomach and 
bowels, preventing the digestion of proteins and tending to- 
ward constipation. 

6. By artificially liquefying food in the mouth, they inter- 
fere with proper mastication and taste, and therefore diminish 
the secretion of " appetite juice " in the stomach. 

7. They belong to the stimulant family and are no doubt, 
in many cases, forerunners of worse habits. 

8. The " tea-drinker's habit " is a nervous disorder re- 
sulting from the excessive use of tea, now recognized by 
medical authorities. 

9. They are probably an important factor in many cases 
of neurasthenia and other nervous disorders, especially 
when used in large quantities. 

10. In many cases they produce depressing headaches and 
other undesirable effects, and most of their devotees will ex- 
perience a headache if they are forced to go without their 
accustomed cup of tea or coffee. 

11. These habits constitute an enormous drain upon the 
physical health of the nation and encourage the useless ex- 
penditure of a vast sum of money on the part of the Ameri- 
can people, who consume about fourteen pounds of coffee 
per capita per year, to say nothing of tea and cocoa. 

ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

Doctors are coming to use less and less alcohol in the 
practice of medicine, and the time has certainly arrived 
when the laymen should understand its effects upon health 
to such an extent as to discontinue its use as a table bever- 
age. Alcohol is not a true food. It has been long known 
that a portion of alcohol mav be oxidized in the body. 



164 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



This is also true of many other poisons which would be 
equally entitled to be called a food, if this fact entitles 
alcohol to be called a food. 

Alcohol is the excretion of a certain microscopic little 
body, one of the lower order of beings ; in fact, it is the ex- 
cretion of a vegetable organism, the common yeast plant. 
One of the great laws of biology is that the excretions 
thrown out from the body of any species are poisons to all 
orders of life above that species in the biological scale, 
and alcohol proves that this is true, as it is a poison to 
all animals, from the least to the highest. Professor Win- 
field S. Hall, Dean of the Medical Department of North- 
western University, employs the deadly parallel to show 
that alcohol is not a food, as follows : 



THE TRUTH ABOUT 
ALCOHOL 

1. A certain quantity will 
produce a certain effect at 
first, but it requires more 
and more to produce the 
same effect when the drug 
is used habitually. 

2. When used habitually, it is 
likely to induce an uncon- 
trollable desire for more in 
ever-increasing amounts. 

3. After its habitual use, a 
sudden total abstinence is 
likely to cause a serious de- 
rangement of the central 
nervous system. 

4. Alcohol is oxidized rapidly 
in the body. 

5. Alcohol, not being useful, 
is not stored in the body. 

6. Alcohol is a product of de- 
composition of food in the 



THE TRUTH ABOUT 
FOODS 

1. A certain quantity will 
produce a certain effect at 
first, and the same quantity 
will always produce the 
same effect in the healthy 
body. 

2. The habitual use of a food 
never induces an uncon- 
trollable desire for it in 
ever-increasing amounts. 

3. After its habitual use, a 
sudden total abstinence 
never causes any derange- 
ment of the central nerv- 
ous system. 

4. All foods are oxidized 
slowly in the body. 

5. All foods, being useful, are 
stored in the body. 

6. All foods are products of 
constructive activity of 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 



165 



presence of a scarcity of 
oxygen. 

7. Alcohol Js an excretion 
and, in common with all 
excretions, is poisonous. 
It may be beneficial to cer- 
tain phases of disease, but 
is never beneficial to the 
healthy body. 

8. All medical men advise 
healthy persons to avoid 
alcohol altogether. 

9. All connoisseurs advise 
people to avoid taking al- 
cohol into the empty stom- 
ach. 

10. The young, developing in- 
dividual is always ad- 
vised to abstain from alco- 
hol. 

11. The use of alcohol, in 
common with narcotics in 
general, is followed by a 
reaction. 

12. The use of alcohol is fol- 
lowed by a decrease in the 
activity of the muscle cells 
and the brain cells. 



protoplasm in the presence 
of abundant oxygen. 

7. All foods are formed by 
Nature for nourishment 
and are by nature whole- 
some and always beneficial 
to the healthy body, though 
they may injure the body in 
certain phases of disease. 

8. No medical men advise 
healthy persons to avoid 
food. 

9. People are universally ad- 
vised to take food into the 
empty stomach. 

10. The young, developing in- 
dividual is always ad- 
vised to partake bounti- 
fully of food. 

11. The use of foods is fol- 
lowed by no reaction. 



12. The use of food is fol- 
lowed by an increase in 
the activity of the muscle 
and brain cells. 



CANE SUGAR. 

There can be little doubt that the American people eat too 
much sugar and sweet foods. Sugar is a food and, when 
properly eaten, may serve a useful purpose in the body, al- 
though it should be remembered that ordinary cane sugar is 
very different from the natural sugar found in fruits, in that 
it requires to be digested before it can be absorbed into 
the blood-stream, and that its digestion is affected very 



166 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

late in the process by a certain ferment of the intestinal 
juice. 

Cane sugar (made from maple sap, the sugar beet, and 
the sugar-cane plant) is not irritating to the mucous mem- 
brane when it is taken in a diluted form the form in 
which it is found in Nature. Marked irritating and in- 
flammatory effects are produced upon the mucous mem- 
brane, when solutions stronger than 6 to 10 per cent are 
taken. Concentrated sugar, or strong solutions thereof, ex- 
ert an inflammatory effect on the membrane lining the 
throat and stomach, much the same as salt, and this is evi- 
denced by the fact that it produces an inordinate thirst 
similar to that produced by salt. 

Preserved fruits and vegetables are not ideal foods, in 
that they contain an excess of sugar, and the process of 
preservation renders them very difficult of digestion. 

Nature undoubtedly intended that man should get most of 
his sugar (for sugar is a good food, rich in heat-producing 
qualities) from the fruits and vegetables, rather than in 
the form of concentrated cane sugar; but if cane sugar is 
used, it should be well diluted, and fortunately this is the 
case in most of our foods where it is employed in the 
processes of cooking. When used in the form of candy, by 
children, it is more wholesome in the shape of hard candies, 
which will compel the dilution of the sugar by the admixture 
of a large amount of saliva in the mouth before swallowing. 
One of the great objections to candy, outside of its im- 
purity or adulteration, is that it is eaten between meals. 
Candy must be seriously regarded as a food. Much of the 
harm of candy would be removed, were it eaten in moderate 
quantities masticated as a food, or slowly dissolved in 
the mouth. Candy should be taken at meal times or di- 
rectly following meals. 

THE SALT QUESTION 

Salt, when taken in small quantities, is probably not re- 
sponsible for abnormal conditions in the healthy body. It 
is certain that this condiment works great harm when taken 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 167 

into the body in large quantities. It is highly irritating to 
the mucous membrane lining the stomach, where it sets 
up a severe inflammation, and is partly responsible for the in- 
ordinate thirst which immediately appears when large quan- 
tities are eaten. There are some diseases, such as dropsy, in 
which it is necessary to remove salt from the food entirely in 
the successful treatment of the patient. I think it is a 
good plan for one to see to it that he is gradually eat- 
ing a little less salt, or at least to make sure that the 
salt habit is not growing upon him, and that he is not, 
little by little, coming to take more and more af this con- 
diment in connection with his food. 

The really useful and natural salts are secured from the 
various vegetable foods such as fruits, grains, nuts, and 
vegetables. The ordinary table salt is a purely mineral com- 
pound, and its value as a food is questioned by some of 
the best known authorities on foods and nutrition. It is 
highly probable that the majority of people could live in- 
definitely with but little or no salt at all in their food. 
Salt does not seem to be an indispensable part of the food 
of any animal. It is possible that the use of salt is wholly 
a cultivated and acquired taste. 

EXCESS OF PROTEIN 

The American people eat too much meat. Meat consists 
largely of protein, a food element adapted to bodily repair, 
but ordinarily very little used for heat and energy, and 
constituting a very extravagant source of heat when used 
for that purpose. The greater bulk of the average diet 
should consist of potatoes, cereals, fruits, vegetables, and 
nuts, with a moderate amount of milk, sugar, eggs, etc., as 
these are the foods which so abundantly supply us with 
the materials needed for heat and energy. 

We need but a small amount of protein at each meal. 
This was made clear in the chapter on Nutrition. The 
common foods which contain proteins meat, eggs, cheese, 
beans, lentils, and the like, should not constitute the chief 
article of diet at any one meal. We are getting just about 



1 68 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

all the protein we require in connection with our bread and 
other cereals. We even get considerable in potatoes, while 
eggs and milk furnish an abundance of protein even an 
excess. Nature has distributed the protein very sparingly, 
but very carefully, and in about the proper amounts, through- 
out most of her food substances, so that it is really neces- 
sary to eat but a small quantity of the so-called protein 
foods in order to supply the body with enough to keep it in 
proper repair. 

The danger of taking too much protein consists in the 
fact previously pointed out, that the body has no real pro- 
vision for storing it. If we eat too much sugar or starch, 
it can be stored in the liver and subsequently used. Like- 
wise, if we eat too much fat, it may be deposited as adipose 
tissue, and later used; but when we eat too much protein, 
there is no such arrangement for storing it in the body. 

PROTEIN ASHES 

When starch, sugar, and fat are burned up in the body, 
they produce ashes which will liquefy, or gases which will 
readily pass off the gases through the lungs and the 
liquids through the kidneys, skin, etc. But when proteins 
are burned up in the body; that is, such foods as meat, 
cheese, etc., the resulting ashes are not all liquid and 
gaseous. Some are solid, and these must be further burned 
up in the liver and eliminated through the kidneys, which 
organs have great difficulty in eliminating these protein 
ashes if they are present in the blood in large quantities. 

These solid protein ashes or clinkers from the furnace of 
life, are perhaps better known to the reader by the name 
of uric acid, urea, etc., and they probably have more or 
less to do with various diseases of the body, such as rheu- 
matism, sick headache, and perhaps a great many other 
maladies. 

There is little to be said in favor of meat as a regular 
article of diet, except that its protein is probably more easy 
of digestion than the vegetable protein. This is due to the 
fact that it is in process of disintegration, and the further 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 169 

down the scale of decay the flesh has descended, the more 
easy it is of digestion. This is why the cold storage meats 
are more tender than the fresh or salted kinds. So far as 
the body itself is concerned, it makes equally good use of 
either animal or vegetable proteins. While the vegetarians 
have made many wild and absurd claims for their diet, 
nevertheless there is much to be said in favor of the non- 
flesh diet, as the vegetable kingdom (with milk and eggs) 
certainly affords all the elements necessary for the proper 
nourishment and energizing of the body; at the same time, 
the fruits, grains, nuts, and vegetables are free from any 
of the disadvantages and undesirable effects of the high 
protein or meat diet. The experience of the vast majority 
of the earth's inhabitants to-day, who live without meat 
and yet enjoy good health, is a sufficient demonstration of 
the practicability of the non-meat diet; whereas recent tests 
at Yale University show the non-flesh users to be far su- 
perior to the meat-users in practically every endurance test 
made. 

CONDIMENTS 

The more simple the diet, the more natural will be the 
taste, and the less the craving for condiments and other un- 
natural seasoning. The well-cooked, simply seasoned diet 
would prove a great aid to the cause of practical temperance. 
The more one chews the food, the more natural the flavors, 
the more the sense of taste will be found to choose simple, nu- 
tritious food with simple seasoning food which in every 
way supplies the body's needs. 

The average person has a very limited sense of taste, 
nearly all foods being flavored with mustard, vinegar, pep- 
per, salt, horseradish, etc. The less these condiments are 
used, the more appreciative and discriminating will the 
sense of taste become. New and undreamed-of flavors will 
be discovered in a simple piece of toasted bread, and many 
of the common food preparations which the condiment- 
seared taste regarded as insipid, will be found to abound 
in numerous grateful and tasty flavors. 



170 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

The more simple one's diet, therefore, the more reliable 
will become the sense of taste in choosing those foods which 
the body really needs from day to day for purposes of 
nourishment and energy. The real purpose of eating is to 
nourish mind and body, and to heat and energize the organ- 
ism. We should eat to live, and not live to eat. We can- 
not have a well-nourished body with the stomach and 
bowels in a state of constant fermentation and putrefaction. 
We cannot expect peace and serenity of mind with a state 
of perpetual warfare in the stomach, and insurrection in 
the bowels. Good digestion requires simplicity of diet ; free- 
dom from these irritating, thirst-producing condiments. 
Further objection to the presence of irritating condiments 
in the diet may be briefly stated as follows: 

1. Thorough mastication of the food yields natural food 
flavors and renders the use of condiments both unnecessary 
and undesirable. 

2. Condiments pervert and blunt the sense of taste 
Nature's monitor of digestion the great regulator of 
metabolism. 

3. They create an inflammatory thirst which water can- 
not quench. Alcohol is able to quench this inordinate and 
unnatural thirst at once. In many cases, condiments may 
be truthfully called the real ancestors of drunkenness. 

4. They inflame and irritate the digestive mucous mem- 
branes. Mustard produces something like the same effect on 
the inside of the stomach that it does on the outside. 

5. They all have a tendency to produce a catarrhal state 
of the stomach and bowels when their use is long continued. 

6. While they may increase the quantity of the saliva and 
gastric juice, they invariably decrease the quality, as the 
fluids they produce are largely mucous, designed to pro- 
tect the mucous membrane from irritation. 

7. By over-flavoring, they lead in many cases to overeat- 
ing. 

8. In general, it is a safe plan to avoid all flavoring sub- 
stances which " taste hot when they are cold." 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 



MUSHES AND PASTRIES 

The average person will do well to avoid the soft, fresh 
breads as they come from the oven, whether they are yeast- 
raised or the hot soda biscuit. Those with robust digestion 
may be able to stand these breads regularly for a long time, 
but sooner or later, digestion will be deranged by these 
pasty, half-cooked starches in the form of fresh, doughy 
bread. For the same reason, too much pastry will be found 
to disagree with the digestion. It is simply a question of 
the proper cooking of starch. The better cooked the pas- 
tries, the less objection to them from the standpoint of 
health and digestion. The student of health will do well to 
avoid very largely all our modern, highly seasoned pastries 
and desserts, and the dyspeptic would better shun them alto- 
gether. 

The Pastry Peril is a real one to dyspeptics; and the 
miseries of mush could be testified to by thousands who 
have eaten enormous quantities of half-cooked cereal 
mushes, supposing that they were partaking of ideal health 
foods, especially adapted to the crippled digestion of semi- 
invalids. 

PERVERTED TASTE. 

It is remarkable how quickly, how easily, the human 
taste can be perverted so as to relish certain foods which 
the normal senses of smell and taste would instantly reject 
such foods as the indigestible cucumber pickle, old and 
rancid cheese, and many other articles of diet, which can 
only worry and overtax the organs of digestion. Many of 
these unnatural foods, such as clam-chowder, are actually 
poisonous and disease-producing. At the same time, some 
people have developed such a peculiar taste that they relish 
and crave these unnatural and perverted food substances. 
Indeed, many of these foods have taken unto themselves the 
name of " relishes." 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



LIQUID FOODS. 

The human mouth is equipped with an extraordinary 
grinding device, which clearly indicates that man was de- 
signed to eat largely of solid or semi-solid foods. Dry 
food and hard food are essential at least, a certain amount 
of them to thorough mastication and good digestion. 
The seeker after health will do well to avoid too much of 
the mushes, pastries, soups, and other liquid and semi-liquid 
foods. We regard the modern toasted flake foods as a bless- 
ing to humanity, but their predecessors, the mushy break- 
fast foods, were certainly a cross to the dyspeptic stomach. 
Liquid foods are indispensable to some crippled stomachs, 
and a moderate amount of liquids will do no harm to the 
average healthy digestion. It will be found best to limit 
the liquids taken at meals to one glass even in the case 
of those having normal digestion. 

FOOD PREPARATION 

The scientific cooking and artistic preparation, together 
with tasteful service of food, are all concerned in the crea- 
tion of the keen appetite which is so essential to good di- 
gestion. It is a great mistake to look with indifference 
upon the service of the food at the table. Good digestion 
demands that the senses of beauty, propriety, and the in- 
dividual tastes, shall be satisfied as well as the appetite 
gratified in this wonderful and important act of taking 
nourishment. Poor cooking and careless serving usually re- 
sult in a poor appetite, and a poor appetite commonly means 
poor digestion. Take time to enjoy your food. The tasty 
appreciation of food is a part of good digestion, as fully dis- 
cussed in the preceding chapter. 

DRINKING AT MEALS. 
The habit of drinking two, three, or four glasses of water, 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 173 

milk, tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, or ice tea, in connection 
with the meals, is certainly harmful. It will be found best 
to limit liquids taken with meals to one glass or one cup. 
Some stomachs may appear to stand more liquid, but sooner 
or later trouble is likely to arise from the practice of drink- 
ing large quantities at meal time. The great thirst experi- 
enced by many at meal time is probably due to the fact that 
the system is famished for water to the point where the se- 
cretion of the digestive juices is seriously interfered with 
there really being a deficiency of liquid in the blood. This 
condition of affairs clearly shows that the individual has 
neglected to drink a proper amount of water between meals 
the proper time to take the large part of our daily water 
requirement. 

Some few cases of excessively acid stomachs seem to do 
well upon one glass of cold or ice water at meals. This 
cold liquid probably lessens the secretion of hydrochloric 
acid in the stomach. These are about the only ones whom 
we can recommend to take much liquid at meal time, es- 
pecially cold drinks. 

The cereal coffees, crust coffee, soups, etc., or a glass of 
milk taken at meal time in amounts not exceeding one cup 
or one glass, will probably do little harm to persons having 
ordinary health and sound digestion. Some dyspeptics, at 
least for a time, must avoid all liquids at meal time. 

Mineral waters are not to be recommended for continuous 
use. While some of these natural medicinal. waters may be 
of slight value when used in certain diseases for a short 
time notably constipation their prolonged use can only 
work mischief, especially in the case of the strong mineral 
waters. 

The best possible water for drinking purposes is pure dis- 
tilled water, or snow-water as it comes from the mountains; 
otherwise, the nearer the regular drinking water approaches 
pure soft water, the better it is. Pure water should contain 
no salts or other foreign matter. 



174 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



ERRORS OF COOKING 

Starchy foods should be long boiled or thoroughly baked, 
especially if one's digestion is weak. On the other hand, 
cooking is to be avoided in the case of fats, butter, oils, etc. 
These substances are chemically changed when much heated. 
Certain irritating oils, etc., are developed, and this is what 
makes fried foods difficult of digestion, and to many stom- 
achs entirely indigestible. 

Cooking also decreases the digestibility of all the proteins, 
except in the case of the legumes peas, beans, lentils, and 
peanuts. These should be well cooked, otherwise their pro- 
tein, as well as the starches they contain, is very difficult of 
digestion. 

Many of the tough and coarse vegetables are improved 
by cooking, such as the onion, turnip, and parsnip, while cab- 
bage is digested in half the time if eaten raw cooked 
cabbage being very difficult of digestion. 

The use of baking powders, especially the alum powders, 
cannot help injuring the health and digestion. 

Eggs are better taken either raw or soft boiled. The 
more eggs and meat are cooked, the harder they are to di- 
gest. Raw or rare meats, while easy of digestion, are dan- 
gerous to health because of the germs, parasites, etc., which 
they contain. 

The question of proper and improper combinations was 
fully considered in the preceding chapter. 

PHYSICAL AND MENTAL WORK, 

The condition of the body and the state of the mind at 
meal time are important. It is not advisable to engage in 
fatiguing physical work right up to the hour of eating; 
neither is it well to resume hard physical effort immediately 
after the meal. There should be at least one hour before 
strenuous bodily effort is put forth. Walking or other light 
exercise may be resumed immediately or within a half-hour 
after meals. 



MISTAKES MADE AT MEALS 175 

Taxing mental labor should not be performed immediately 
after eating. Light reading does not seem to affect some, but 
digestion will proceed more acceptably if the mind is allowed 
comparative rest after meals, for at least an hour. The 
practice of reading at meals is highly injurious. 



CHAPTER XIII 

PURE WATER DRINKING, OR THE REFRESHED LIFE 

PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY OF WATER. LATENT HEAT. FREEZING 
MIXTURES. MOISTURE. EXPANSION. CAPILLARITY. DIALY- 
SIS. COMPRESSIBILITY. EQUILIBRIUM OF LIQUIDS. DISTILLA- 
TION. DEW. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF WATER DRINKING. THE 
INTERNAL BATH. DAILY REQUIRED WATER. HOW TO DRINK AND 
WHEN TO DRINK. WHAT TO DRINK. FRUIT JUICES. SOURCES 
OF WATER. HARD AND SOFT WATERS. WATER CONTAMINATION. 

POLLUTED WELLS. LAKE SEWAGE. IMPURE ICE. LEAD 
POISONING. SPARKLING WATER. WORMS AND PARASITES. 

WATER PURIFICATION. FILTERS. ADULTERATED WATERS. 
WATER IN DISEASE. GOITRE. HOT WATER. OVER-DRINKING. 

CARBONATED WATER. 

WATER is the most abundant and widely distributed 
of all chemical compounds. Two atoms of hydro- 
gen combined with one of oxygen, produces water the 
chemical formula being H 2 O. Water is a well-nigh uni- 
versal solvent, as the vast majority of all solids and chemical 
elements are soluble in it. 

PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY OF WATER. 

In both health and disease, water is the most largely used 
of Nature's chemical compounds, owing largely to the fact 
that it abounds in almost every part of the world, and that 
it is quite readily obtainable in its three different states 
solid ice, liquid water, and gaseous steam. 

Latent heat. Water possesses great power of absorbing 
and transmitting heat, holding five times as much heat as 
glass, and ten times as much as iron. The heat absorbed 
by boiling water is called " latent heat," and is again lib- 
erated when the steam is condensed. Latent heat is also 

176 



PURE WATER DRINKING 

given up when the liquid water is frozen into solid ice. It 
requires almost two hundred and fifty calories of heat to 
evaporate turn into steam one pound of water; almost 
three hundred calories to evaporate one pound of ice water. 
Thirty-five calories can be removed from the body by the 
melting of a pound of ice in contact with the skin. 

Steam holds an enormous amount of latent heat, and the 
condensation of one pound of steam will raise the tempera- 
ture of eleven hundred cubic feet of air to 130. (This is 
the amount of air in a room 10 X 10 X n feet.) 

This latent heat is the unrecorded heat the heat stored 
in liquids and gases which prevents their changing form, 
and which cannot be measured by the thermometer. 

When water is boiled in an open vessel, it never rises 
above 212 F., however hot the fire, until it is all evapo- 
rated. The excess of heat all the while is being locked up 
in the steam and carried away as latent heat. As it re- 
quires heat to change a solid into a liquid, or a liquid into 
a gas, all liquids and gases are found to contain latent heat. 
This stored-up heat of liquids and gases is given out and 
can be easily recognized when the liquid becomes a solid or 
the gas becomes a liquid. 

Freezing mixtures. These mixtures are based upon the 
laws of latent heat. Salt and ice form a good freezing 
mixture because the salt causes the ice to melt, owing to its 
great affinity or attraction for water (you always get thirsty 
after eating much salt) ; but the solid ice cannot become 
liquid to satisfy the chemical cravings of the salt for water, 
unless it can get heat, for it requires heat to transform a 
solid (the ice) into a liquid (water). This explains the 
freezing of the cream mixture in the can. The heat is 
actually abstracted from the milk to melt the ice; and so 
while the solid ice is turning to liquid water, the liquid cream 
mixture is giving up its latent heat and gradually turning 
into solid ice cream. 

Moisture. The ability of the atmosphere to absorb mois- 
ture depends largely upon its temperature. A cubic foot of 
air at 32 F. holds but two grains of water, while at 72 it 

12 



178 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

holds eight grains, and at 96 sixteen grains. Therefore, a 
room 20 X 13 x 10 feet, containing dry warm air at 96, 
would be able to absorb about five pounds of water. Mois- 
ture in the air somewhat hinders respiration. 

Expansion. Water expands on being heated, until at the 
point of turning into steam, it increases in volume seventeen 
hundred times. On the other hand, water contracts in vol- 
ume as it is cooled, until within just a few degrees of the 
freezing point, when it suddenly expands with great force. 
This explains the bursting of pipes, earthen vessels, etc., 
in which water is allowed to freeze. 

Capillarity. This is the property possessed by liquids of 
ascending in tubes or long solid bodies which they are able 
to moisten. Practical illustrations of this power are the 
oil rising in the lamp-wick, the ink which is taken up by 
the blotting paper, and the rising of the sap in all plants and 
trees. 

Dialysis. This is the process by which water containing 
certain salts in solution passes through solid earthenware 
walls, carrying the dissolved salts right along with it. 
Many substances, like the white of an egg, will not pass 
through solid walls when dissolved in water, unless they 
are previously acted upon by the ferments found in the 
digestive fluids. 

Compressibility. Liquids are very nearly incompressible. 
The water at the bottom of the sea is but little more dense 
than that at the surface. It is this property of incompres- 
sibility that permits of the construction of the hydraulic 
press. By the use of this principle, in addition to that of 
the lever, the amount of work one man can perform is 
enormously increased. 

Equilibrium of liquids. That water seeks its highest 
level is a law known to everyone, illustrated by the spirit 
level of the carpenter and the artesian or overflowing well. 
Liquids also possess a displacement or uplifting power, 
a power which may be expressed by stating that solid 
bodies immersed or floating in liquids, lose a part of their 
weight equal to the weight of the water which they dis- 



PURE WATER DRINKING 

place. This explains the otherwise mysterious phenomenon 
of a solid steel vessel actually floating on water. 

Distillation. Distillation combines the twofold process of 
evaporation and condensation. To distil water, we first con- 
vert it into steam. All impurities and foreign matter con- 
tained in the water are left behind. This steam is condensed 
by cooling; it is turned into distilled water rain water 
free from all foreign substances. 

The principle of the water still is very simple. We need 
only to boil the water and allow the steam to pass upward 
to collect in pipes or a condensing chamber, the other end 
of which is cooled by running water, ice, or chemicals. 
The coldness of this chamber condenses the steam as it 
passes through, and allows the pure, distilled water to be 
drawn away. 

Dew. The formation of dew is a simple process of natu- 
ral distillation. The dew point is the temperature at which 
the saturated atmosphere begins to condense, or precipitate 
its watery vapors. This is beautifully illustrated when a 
pitcher is filled with ice water on a summer's day. The 
layer of air in immediate contact with the pitcher is so 
quickly cooled that its vapor is suddenly precipitated as dew 
on the outside of the pitcher. If the object on which the 
dew falls has a temperature below the freezing point, the 
dew freezes, and this is called hoar frost. We do not have 
frost on very cold nights when clouds hang low in the air, 
for the reason that these overhanging clouds act as a blanket, 
which largely prevents the loss of heat by radiation from 
the earth, thereby keeping the temperature of vegetation 
above the freezing point, and thus preventing the frost. 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF WATER DRINKING 

By far the greater part of almost every cell and tissue of 
the living body is composed of water. Jt is absolutely es- 
sential to the life and function of all living things. Water is 
the circulating medium of the body, from which the digestive 
secretions are formed, and by which the food is assimilated 
and distributed to the individual cells. And finally, water is 



l8o THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

the agent for dissolving and removing waste products from 
the body through the various eliminating organs. We lit- 
erally live, think, and have our being, as it were, under 
water. The tiny cell creatures of our bodies, from the 
humble bile-workers of the liver to the exalted thinking 
cells of the brain, all carry on their work submerged. Ac- 
cordingly, the amount of water we drink each day, de- 
termines whether the liquids circulating through our tissues 
shall be pure, fresh, and life-giving, or stagnant, stale, and 
death-dealing. 

Water constitutes from 10 to 95 per cent of the food 
eaten, and is absorbed into the blood through the same 
channels by which the digested food is taken up. Practically 
no water at all is absorbed from the human stomach. If 
liquids are drunk at meal time, they will have to pass out 
of the stomach into the intestine, before they can be ab- 
sorbed through the intestinal walls. Thus the water passes 
into the blood-stream, and its elimination from the body 
takes place through the kidneys, the skin, the lungs, and 
the bowels. 

Water is essential to the entire process of digestion and 
nutrition, as all the ferments of the body act upon food 
substances by the process of dividing them either by the ad- 
dition or abstraction of water. 

Thirst is the expression of the nervous system, constitut- 
ing a call for water, the same as hunger represents a call 
for food. Pure water, free from all foreign substances, is 
the best liquid with which to quench natural thirst. 

THE INTERNAL BATH, 

It is just as important to supply abundance of water for 
the proper bathing and cleansing of the internal parts of 
the body, as it is to wash and bathe the external skin fre- 
quently. The living tissues are just as literally soiled and 
dirtied by their life action and their poisonous excretions, 
as is the skin soiled by its excretions of sweat and poisonous 
solids. Thus the regular drinking of water is absolutely 
necessary to enable the body to enjoy its internal bath, and 



PURE WATER DRINKING l8l 

this internal cleansing is just as grateful and refreshing 
to the cells and tissues, as is the external bath to the 
nerves which exist in the skin. 

By both the old and the young, water must be taken reg- 
ularly and in proper amounts. Even young children and 
infants but a few days old should regularly receive small 
quantities of water. Infants frequently cry for water, and 
receive food instead, which deranges their digestion and 
upsets their nutrition. There must be a regular intake of 
water from the cradle to the grave. 

Water can be called a food only when it contains certain 
salts, such as lime, iodine, iron, etc. If the food eaten con- 
tains an insufficient amount of these salts, it is possible that 
the body may secure some of them from the drinking 
water. 

Water is a medicine only when, by natural or artificial 
processes, it has dissolved in it various medicinal ingredi- 
ents. Such liquids, whether prepared in the drug store, or 
secured from so-called mineral springs, should be habitually 
used only upon a physician's advice. 

While some animals, like the camel, are able to go for 
long periods with but a little water, man does not belong to 
that class. He requires a regular intake of liquid to cor- 
respond with the amount which is thrown out from the body 
through the various channels of elimination. 

DAILY REQUIRED WATER. 

The total amount of water necessary varies according to 
the nature of one's work, the amount of sweating from the 
skin, the moisture of the atmosphere, the amount of water 
in the food, etc. We believe the average person requires 
about eight glasses of liquid a day; that is, about two 
quarts. (By the word "glass" we refer to the ordinary 
glass or goblet, two of which equal one pint.) The Jap- 
anese, in the practice of their jiu jitsu system, drink a gallon 
of water a day. This is probably in excess of the amount re- 
quired by the average person of sedentary habits, who does 
not take vigorous physical exercise. 



l82 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



HOW TO DRINK AND WHEN TO DRINK 

The majority of people need to cultivate the. habit of reg- 
ular water-drinking. As a rule, Americans drink too little 
pure water and too much of nearly every other kind of liquid. 
Enormous quantities of soft drinks, soda waters, and other 
artificial beverages, from the weakest soda-pop up to the 
strongest alcoholic beverages, are consumed, much to the 
detriment of the consumers; whereas the regular habit of 
pure water-drinking would have proved of inestimable value 
to the health of all. 

Ordinarily it is best to take water one glass at a time. It 
is a good plan not to drink much water within half an hour 
before eating, and the majority of people will find it best 
not to take much liquid for two hours after eating. It is 
best not to drink at meals, and never should over one glass 
or one cup of liquid be taken at meal time. If soups or 
other liquid or semi-liquid foods are eaten, it will be found 
best to drink nothing at meals. 

Those who have the least tendency to dyspepsia or slow 
digestion, had better take no liquids at meal time. Let such 
take one or two glasses of water half or three-quarters of an 
hour before meals, so as to enable the stomach and other 
organs to secrete the juices required for digestion. It is 
because there is too little water in the blood-stream, owing 
to insufficient water-drinking before meals, that some peo- 
ple are seized with such uncontrollable thirst during meal 
time. 

There is great danger in taking large quantities of cold 
water or ice water when one is overheated or greatly ex- 
hausted. At such times, cold water should be slowly sipped 
to permit of its being partially warmed while passing down 
the throat to the stomach. The best temperature for drink- 
ing water is that at which it is found in wells and springs, 
or a little above, say from 65 to 75 F. 

The daily programme for regular water-drinking for one 
who eats three meals a day should run about as follows : 



PURE WATER DRINKING 183 

From one-half to one glass of water on rising. 

Two or three glasses of water in the forenoon taken about 
one hour apart say at 9:30, 10:30 and 11:30. Or a glass 
or a glass and a half might be taken at 10 and n o'clock. 

The same allowance of two or three glasses taken in the 
afternoon say at 3, 4, and 5 o'clock. 

Most people will also want some water after the evening 
meal, taking a glass between 8 and 9 o'clock, or at bed- 
time. 

There are many things which modify the amount of water 
that should be taken, as previously explained; but the above 
programme represents a systematic scheme for cultivating 
the water-drinking habit, adapted to persons of ordinary 
sedentary or indoor employment, such as business men, 
housewives, etc. 

WHAT TO DRINK 

Pure, unadulterated water is the ideal beverage, adapted 
to quench the natural thirst of the healthy man perfectly. 
Pure water is colorless, odorless, and tasteless. It should 
contain no foreign substance, animal matter, or mineral ele- 
ment. 

The addition of sugar, flavoring extracts, ginger or other 
condiments, alcohol, tea, coffee, cocoa, or chocolate, consti- 
tutes adulteration of water and detracts from its value as an 
ideal health beverage. It results in the cultivation of an un- 
natural taste. Thousands of people detest water, and will 
not drink it if they can obtain any other liquid. Such per- 
sons need to reform their taste and train their thirst to ap- 
preciate water, just as the appetite must sometimes be 
trained to appreciate and enjoy pure and simple food. 

FRUIT JUICES 

In the condemnation of so-called artificial beverages, an 
exception should be made of the fruit juices. The fresh, 
unfermented juices of various fruits come very near being 
pure, distilled water, as they consist of only a little fruit 



184 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

sugar and acid, together with small amounts of flavoring 
and coloring substances, dissolved in pure water. None of 
these substances contained in pure fruit juice needs to be 
digested. While they are foods, they are predigested by the 
sunshine in Nature's own laboratory, so that unfermented 
fruit juice is a genuine food-beverage, satisfying the de- 
mands of thirst by means of its distilled water, and contrib- 
uting its sugar and acids as foods to the body without in any 
way taxing the digestive organs. 

Lemonade, not too sweet, and taken in moderate quanti- 
ties, is certainly a beverage free from objection when used 
by individuals in ordinary health. And so fruit or fruit 
juices can partly take the place of water in the daily require- 
ment of liquids. 

There is absolutely no foundation for the popular prej- 
udice against fruits and melons as a cause of summer com- 
plaints, or when eaten late in the fall, as a source of malarial 
fever, etc. Unripe or overripe fruits frequently cause bowel 
disturbances; as also do the millions of germs which lurk 
upon the outside of fruits, and which find their way into the 
stomach and bowels when these fruits are eaten raw with- 
out washing or paring. Otherwise the juices of fruits and 
melons are wholesome food beverages and, when consumed 
in moderation, can only contribute to our health and happi- 
ness. 

The fruit acids are very valuable for disinfecting drink- 
ing water in emergencies. At times when water is sus- 
pected and it cannot be boiled, it is valuable to remember 
that the juice of one small lemon will almost completely 
sterilize a glass of water in thirty minutes. Water treated 
in this way is pretty certain to be free from typhoid, dysen- 
tery, and other infectious diseases, which are commonly con- 
tracted through the channel of drinking water. If lemons 
or limes, which are very strong in fruit acids, are taken in 
too large quantities, they are liable to derange digestion. 
Some people are especially susceptible to the action of these 
acids upon the stomach. 



PURE WATER DRINKING 185 

SOURCES OF WATER. 

Our drinking water is secured from many and varied 
sources, differing in various localities, cities, towns, and vil- 
lages. A thousand and one things conspire to jeopardize the 
purity of our modern sources of drinking water. The pro- 
tection of our water supply constitutes one of the great san- 
itary problems of this age, one fortunately for the health 
of the people which is receiving more and more attention 
as the years pass. 

1. Rain or snow water. The primary source of pure 
water is from rainfall in tropical climes and during the sum- 
mer; or from the mountain streams and snowfall in the 
winter season. This water is pure at its source and, if un- 
contaminated in transmission, presents an exceptionally pure, 
soft water the ideal beverage. Except in the open coun- 
try, rain water is never perfectly pure. In the cities the 
rainfall absorbs so much impurity that the water is some- 
times found to be actually acid in reaction. The rain in fall- 
ing absorbs gaseous impurities, dust, microbes, etc. The 
practice of catching the rain water from the dirty roofs of 
city dwellings is exceedingly dangerous, to say nothing of 
the disease dangers connected with storing it in cisterns 
which are not properly constructed and cared for. 

The waters derived from the melting snows of the moun- 
tain, if properly collected and stored, constitute an ideal 
water supply for towns and cities. 

2. Spring water. The nature of spring water depends en- 
tirely upon the character of the soil through which it has 
passed, as well as the chemical nature of the strata upon 
which the water-bed constituting its source rests. Springs 
are simply the outcroppings of an underground water-vein. 
When coming from sandstone, they often resemble pure, 
soft water; whereas the springs which arise from water- 
beds passing through limestone and other chemicals, may 
vary in composition from water of exceeding hardness to 
mineral waters, ranging from those having medicinal quali- 



186 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ties to those which are actually poisonous. On the whole, 
spring water, especially in country regions, is found to be 
pure, and if not too hard, constitutes a good beverage. 

3. Well water. Wells are commonly spoken of as shal- 
low and deep. The water of shallow wells should never be 
used for drinking purposes, although it is sometimes given to 
cattle. The wholesomeness of deep well water depends en- 
tirely upon the character of the soil, the lay of the land, the 
drainage, etc., together with the surrounding dangers of con- 
tamination. Wells in cities, near graveyards, near barn- 
yards, near cesspools, or in low lands, are to be regarded 
with suspicion. Really the only safe form of well is the 
driven well, or so-called artesian well, which passes below 
one or two dense strata of rock, and draws its supply from 
what is commonly called the "second" or "third" water. 
This water is usually perfectly free from contamination. 
These wells present an unbroken pipe from the surface to 
the water supply, and thus avoid contamination from sur- 
face drainage and many other dangers to which the ordinary 
dug or open well is exposed. 

Well water is found to be hard or soft, owing to its loca- 
tion and depth. Some waters are exceedingly hard; others 
approach rain water in their degree of softness. 

4. River water. River water is frequently used as a 
source of supply for cities and villages. If the river stream 
can be kept free from sewage and other sources of pollution 
for some distance above the intake of the water supply, it 
frequently constitutes a fairly good source of drinking water, 
especially if filtered. Running water has a tendency to 
purify itself. Polluted streams of water, if allowed to run 
through the open country for a number of miles, marvel- 
lously purify themselves. This is due to the fact that they 
deposit many impurities in the river bed or along the banks. 
Impurities are destroyed by the combined action of sunlight 
and pure air, while an important part of the purification is 
carried on by means of certain microbes and water organ- 
isms. The use of river water for drinking purposes must 



PURE WATER DRINKING 187 

be looked upon as questionable, unless the water is known to 
be good. 

5. Lake water. Many lakes contain water which is al- 
most purely soft, much resembling rain water. The large 
lakes which have an outlet, if their shores can be kept un- 
polluted, and sewage can be excluded, represent an almost 
ideal water supply for great cities. The city of Chicago has 
spent an enormous amount of money in the construction of a 
drainage canal in the effort to keep the waters of Lake Mich- 
igan free from pollution and suitable for drinking purposes. 

6. Sea water. Water as it comes from the ocean is unfit 
for drinking purposes, but it may be purified, as on board 
modern ships, by the process of distillation, which allows 
the salt to be left behind and, upon condensation, yields pure, 
soft drinking water. 

7. Distilled water. Distilled water can be made from any 
water, and distillation is the one absolutely sure way of puri- 
fying suspected drinking water. It is sold in most large 
cities, under various names, and is distilled by the simple 
process before described. 

HARD AND SOFT WATERS 

Soft water is simply pure rain or snow water. Waters 
are called hard when they hold in solution varying amounts 
of mineral salts, etc. 

Hard waters are divided into two classes: those of tempo- 
rary hardness and those of permanent hardness. Hard 
waters are usually recognized from the fact that when 
making a lather, their lime salts form insoluble curds with 
the fatty acids of the soap. It is, therefore, necessary to 
use extra quantities of soap in producing a lather with these 
hard waters. 

Temporary hard waters are those which contain the vari- 
ous carbonate salts. These salts are changed by boiling and 
the hardness of the water is greatly lessened. These car- 
bonates are deposited on the bottom and sides of the tea- 



188 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

kettle, as a hard, white crust. The permanent hard waters 
do not precipitate this lime-like crust on boiling; in fact, 
boiling has practically no effect on their hardness. Perma- 
nent hardness is due to the presence of sulphates, chlorides, 
and nitrates. 

Hard waters are not so wholesome as soft waters for 
drinking purposes. It is even possible that the long-contin- 
ued use of very hard Water may result in introducing such a 
great quantity of lime salts and other inorganic elements into 
the body, as to favor a hardening of the arteries, and to pro- 
duce other diseases due to the presence of an excess of lime 
in the blood. 

By using chemicals, most hard waters can be softened so 
as to be suitable for laundry purposes. 

WATER CONTAMINATION 

Rain water is contaminated by atmospheric impurities, 
dirty roofs, and unclean cisterns. The dangers of contami- 
nation to rain water are so great and so many, that in cities 
and villages it is unsafe to use such water for drinking pur- 
poses. While spring water may be contaminated by barn- 
yard filth, or polluted by the nearness of its supply veins to 
a graveyard, the chief source of contamination of spring 
water is from its water-beds resting on or passing over cer- 
tain poisonous chemicals such as arsenic, iodine, etc. The 
water from some springs is inordinately hard and really un- 
fit for drinking purposes. 

Polluted wells. Well water, especially that from ordinary 
dug wells, is subject to contamination from many sources. 
Some well water is exceedingly hard so hard as to render 
it unfit for use. Water, to be suitable for drinking purposes, 
should not contain over twenty-five grains of lime or mag- 
nesia salts to the gallon. Wells are subject to contamina- 
tion from vaults, cesspools, barnyards, etc. Typhoid fever, 
dysentery, and cholera may be spread in this way. Well 
water of doubtful purity should invariably be boiled before 



PURE WATER DRINKING 

using. In fact, the disease-dangers of water from an ordi- 
nary dug well, are so great that the use of such water should 
be forbidden by statute; the law should compel all wells to 
be " driven/' so as to prevent contamination of their waters 
from soil and surface drainage. 

River water, from which many cities take their supply, 
may be contaminated from sewage, as well as from the chan- 
nels through which it flows. 

Lake sewage. Lake water is frequently contaminated by 
the sewage of near-by cities emptying into the lake. There 
is great danger to the city water supply from contaminations 
of lakes or reservoirs. Epidemics of typhoid fever have 
scourged many cities as the result of the carelessness of a 
single typhoid fever patient dwelling near the sources of the 
water supply of the city. The water may be contaminated 
by germs or animal excretions, and the only safe course 
to take when the purity of the water is suspected, is to 
boil it. 

Impure ice. There is great danger of spreading infec- 
tious diseases through impure ice. It should be remem- 
bered that freezing does not destroy all germs. Typhoid 
fever and other disease germs can live for months in a 
cake of solid ice and then, with the melting of the ice, re- 
new their pernicious activities and produce fatal disease. 
Ice should not be put directly in the drinking water to melt, 
unless it is of attested purity, or unless it is artificial ice 
made from distilled water. 

Lead poisoning. There is danger of contamination of 
drinking water while passing through lead pipes. For this 
reason, iron pipes are preferable to the lead. Lead-con- 
taminated water is exceedingly dangerous when there is 
more than one-twentieth of a grain of lead to the gallon. 
The habitual use of water containing even smaller amounts 
is dangerous. Fortunately, lead pipes which convey hard 
waters, or waters containing carbonates, are dangerous only 
when new, as the carbonates rapidly form an insoluble coat- 



190 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ing over the lead; but even with this, it is a good habit to 
allow the water standing in lead pipes to run through the 
faucet a moment before drinking it. Under no circumstances 
should cisterns be lined with lead. 

Diarrhoea and many of the summer complaints of the great 
cities are due, not alone to impure or contaminated milk, but 
also to the presence of the germs causing these diseases, in 
the drinking water. 

Sparkling water. Water is commonly thought to be pure 
when it is clear and sparkling. The attention of the reader 
is called to the fact that, ordinarily, sparkling constitutes 
serious evidence of impurity and contamination. The spark- 
ling CO 2 waters of the mountainous regions are unquestion- 
ably pure, but it should be remarked, in this connection, that 
the water from wells near graveyards invariably sparkles 
and emits small bubbles of gas. This is evidence of con- 
tamination. 

Worms and parasites. The water supplies of cities may 
be contaminated not only by the germs of the diseases be- 
fore noted, but also by so-called " iron " bacteria, which are 
comparatively harmless, but discolor the water and clog the 
channels. Drinking water may also contain the eggs of the 
round worm of the hog, as well as the eggs of the intestinal 
parasites of other animals, which, when taken into the human 
system, will develop and grow. Amoebic dysentery, a grave 
form of chronic diarrhoea, is produced by the presence of 
certain little animals in the drinking water. 

WATER PURIFICATION 

There are many methods for the purification of water, 
which have been advocated in recent years some adapted 
to the large water supplies of cities and towns, and others to 
the household. Very few are entirely satisfactory; the ma- 
jority are wholly inadequate even deceptively dangerous. 
The following are the methods of natural and artificial puri- 
fication. 

i. Sedimentation. Coarse impurities, earthy deposits of 
clay, and other filth, settle to the bottom of standing water or 



PURE WATER DRINKING 

running streams when the current is not too swift. In this 
way, rivers polluted by sewage are partially purified. 

2. Oxidation. By oxidation is meant the actual burning 
up of poisonous elements contained in the water which is 
exposed to air and sunlight. Numerous germs assist in this 
work of oxidation. 

3. Precipitation. Water may be purified and hard water 
rendered soft by the precipitating action of chemicals. 

4. Dilution. Rivers and lakes are purified, when contami- 
nated by sewage, by having fresh water emptied into them 
through their tributaries or by fresh water springs in their 
beds. 

5. By living organisms. Certain algae, the so-called 
" water-plant," together with the infusoria, are great puri- 
fiers of the water through the process of oxidation. It is 
the presence of these little organisms in the gravel and on 
the bricks of the large city filters, that probably has more 
than anything else to do with purifying the water. 

6. Microbes. The microbes of putrefaction, which prey 
upon organic matters and animal wastes, are also a great aid 
in purifying the water of contaminated pools and streams. 

7. Filtration. Filtration might be termed an artificial 
method of purification. Filters are built on a large scale for 
cities as follows: 

The first reservoir is called the settling basin. Here the 
water is allowed to stand until earthy impurities settle to 
the bottom. It is then siphoned off into the sand and gravel 
tank the filter proper. The water first passes through fine 
sand. It next passes through fine gravel, where it is ex- 
posed to the purifying influence of masses of the little green 
water-plant. Each successive layer of gravel increases in 
size until it passes over a lower layer of bricks. This con- 
stitutes a fairly effective filter. The upper layers of sand 
and small gravel require to be changed or washed through 
running water occasionally for cleansing. 

Filters. Mechanical filtration is commonly used for the 
household and for manufacturing establishments. The water 



192 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

is forced by pressure through earthenware cylinders, and it 
was at one time thought that these filters would arrest the 
passage of germs and thus effectively purify the water, but 
recent investigations have shown that these filters are all a 
snare and a delusion. No filter has yet been devised which is 
thoroughly effective. 

The charcoal filters in a very short time become a veritable 
hotbed for the development of germs. Filtered water can- 
not be relied upon as being pure; at best, it is but one of 
the uncertain methods of obtaining pure drinking water. 

8. Distilled or boiled waters. Boiling is the best method 
of home purification of impure water. Water should be 
boiled twenty minutes; better thirty minutes. The only ob- 
jection to boiled or distilled water is that it usually tastes 
flat. This unpleasant taste is easily overcome by pouring 
the water from vessel to vessel, allowing it to pass through 
the air a few times, as this flat taste is due to the fact that 
all air has been driven out by boiling. Boiled or distilled 
water, when properly aerated, possesses a taste in every way 
satisfaccory. 

If one cannot get pure soft water from driven wells, or 
from the mountain snows, or from other satisfactory sources, 
distilled water undoubtedly represents the ideal pure water, 
and when properly aerated, as suggested above, is wholly 
satisfactory from every standpoint. 

The tests for impure water are somewhat complicated, 
and, in. order to be reliable, should be made by those more 
or less familiar with laboratory methods. We will not un- 
dertake to give these tests here, but advise that suspected 
water be either boiled or carefully tested by a competent 
chemist. 

ADULTERATED WATERS 

In this connection, we desire to call attention to the fact 
that a large amount of the water consumed by civilized races 
for drinking purposes is more or less adulterated. While 
much of this adulterated water is not highly injurious, we 



PURE WATER DRINKING 193 

regard it as none the less unfortunate that an artificial taste 
has been acquired for these artificial beverages. 

We have spoken at length of the value of fruit juices, etc., 
as beverages. They are natural products, but we can but 
regard tea, coffee, chocolate, cocoa, and a host of soft drinks 
soda water, ginger ale, and pop, together with the more 
injurious and objectionable alcoholic beverages, both dis- 
tilled and fermented, as questionable adulterations of that 
universal beverage, pure water. These adulterations are not 
calculated to promote the health of the race, but in every way 
they produce an artificial craving which water is unable to 
satisfy, and thus contribute to the creation of that thirst 
which sometimes requires the strongest of artificial, and even 
intoxicating, beverages to quench. 

WATER IN DISEASE 

The external use of water in the form of baths, will be 
dealt with in another chapter. We desire in this place to 
emphasize the importance of taking abundance of water in 
the majority of acute and chronic diseases. Especially is it 
necessary to drink abundantly when suffering from fever. 
It is a good plan to give fever patients at least one glass of 
cold water every hour they are awake. 

In cases of fever and many other diseases, fresh, unfer- 
mented, unsweetened fruit juice is an ideal food beverage, 
supplying the patient with pure distilled water and a cer- 
tain amount of fruit sugar, which requires no digestion, but 
which abundantly nourishes and strengthens the white blood 
cells of the body for their battle against infection. 

Patients suffering from rheumatism and other intoxi- 
cations, should take not less than two quarts of water every 
twenty-four hours. It is best that this should be taken at 
intervals during the day, in small quantities, as suggested 
elsewhere. 

Goitre. Waters containing magnesia are thought by some 
to cause goitre, but that these waters are responsible for 
this disease is seriously questioned by many medical authori- 
ties at present. It is, nevertheless, true that in most locali- 
13 



194 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ties where goitre prevails, the waters are very hard and con- 
tain large quantities of magnesia. 

Hot water. The practice of drinking warm water before 
meals is not a good one, except in cases of catarrh of the 
stomach or acid dyspepsia. Persons suffering from these 
conditions are sometimes benefited by taking one-half to one 
glass of hot water one-half hour before meals, for a few 
weeks. 

Overdrinking. There is danger of overdrinking on the 
part of some; especially is this true if water is taken two or 
three glasses at a time. The stomach may be over-distended 
and a foundation laid for permanent dilatation. Again, per- 
sons suffering from a dilated stomach, or from a weak, di- 
lated heart, as well as those who have chronic Bright' s dis- 
ease, are sometimes harmed by drinking too much water. 

In order to store water in the body, it is necessary to 
drink it in small amounts at frequent intervals. When 
water is taken in large quantities at one time, it is much 
more likely to be immediately eliminated by the kidneys. 

Carbonated water. Carbonated water, that is, water 
charged with CO 2 gas is more easily assimilated than or- 
dinary water. It appears to rest very lightly on the stomach, 
and in many cases of stomach trouble it is a very acceptable 
beverage. 

Attention is again called to the fact that meal time is not 
the proper time to drink. Practically all animals refuse to 
drink during their meals, and in this respect they set a wise 
example for their masters, who are supposed to be possessed 
of superior intelligence. 



CHAPTER XIV 

REGULAR BATHING, OR THE CLEAN LIFE 

THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS. 

PALE SKIN. SKIN NERVES. SUNBURN. THE KIDNEYS 
OVERWORKED KIDNEYS. HYGIENIC BATHING. MORNING BATH- 
ING. A POWERFUL NATURAL TONIC. THE CLEANSING BATH. 

BATHING FACILITIES. OUTDOOR BATHING. THE NEUTRAL BATH. 

THE HOT BATH. THE COLD BATH. TONIC BATH. INFANT 
BATHING. BATHS IN FEVER. BATHS FOR THE AGED. BATHING 
HINTS. 

IN both structure and function, the skin and kidneys are 
much alike, and may profitably be considered together 
in connection with the subject of bathing and elimination. 

THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS 

The skin consists of two layers or groups of cells the 
true skin, or dermis, and the outer skin, or epidermis. The 
outer layer of cells in the epidermis is of a horny nature; 
at the ends of the toes and fingers it is greatly hardened to 
form the nails. Hairs are special outgrowths from the hair 
follicles embedded in the skin. The skin contains numerous 
oil-glands which empty by spiral ducts upon the surface. 
The sweat-glands are embedded in the skin and also have 
ducts leading to the surface. In addition to numerous blood- 
vessels little veins and arteries the skin contains a large 
number of nerves, including the nerves of temperature, 
touch, pain, location, and numerous sympathetic nerves. 

The average person possesses about seventeen square feet 
of skin. It is estimated that there are two and a-half million 
sweat-glands in the skin. The area of the openings of all 
these little sweat-glands is about eleven thousand square 

195 



196 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

feet. That is, the body's sewer system which has its open- 
ings in the sweat-glands of the skin, if represented by a 
single eliminating tube with but one opening, would have 
an emptying or discharging surface equal to eleven thou- 
sand square feet. In many parts of the body there are about 
twenty-five hundred little sweat-pores to the square inch; 
while the uniting of all the sweat-ducts, end to end, which 
are coiled up in the skin, thus making a single tube, would 
make a sewer more than ten miles long. 

The kidney is divided into numerous compartments, each 
containing vast numbers of excreting tubules which are 
lined with epithelium, and whose general structure much 
resembles that of the skin. Arteries and veins are liberally 
supplied, and as the blood circulates through these vessels, 
certain poisons found in the blood-stream are selected by the 
kidney and excreted (really secreted) through its walls into 
the urinary tubules, which carry the urine through the 
ureters to the bladder. (Fig. 17.) 

It has been estimated that the urinary tubules of the kid- 
neys, if all were united end to end, would form a single 
drainage tube over fifteen miles in length. Just above the 
kidney, there is a structure called the suprarenal body, 
which secretes certain substances that raise and lower the 
blood pressure. 

PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS 

The healthy skin is warm to the touch, slightly moist, or 
oily, elastic, free from eruptions, and reacts promptly to 
rubbing or cold water. The skin is one of the important 
organs of the body; it should be regarded as a functionating 
organ, and not as a mere protective covering. Owing to its 
rich supply of blood-vessels and nerves, it exerts a power- 
ful influence upon the body for health or disease. 

Pale skin. The blood-vessels of the skin can hold more 
than half of all the blood in the body; therefore, in all cases 
of pale skin, cold hands and feet, etc., the blood which prop- 
erly belongs in the skin must be found in some of the in- 



REGULAR BATHING 197 

ternal organs which are more or less over-distended and con- 
gested. From this it follows that the pale, anaemic skin 
usually means congestion of some internal organ from an over 
supply of blood producing inflammations, etc. The weak- 
est organ, of course, will suffer most, and this will deter- 
mine whether the individual has headache, stomach trouble, 
constipation, or more likely, portal (liver) congestion, re- 
sulting in biliousness, the blues, etc. 

Skin nerves. The various nerves ending in the skin, 
make it possible, by the application of heat and cold, rub- 
bing, etc., very wonderfully to control the circulation of the 
blood in the internal organs. This is possible because of the 
fact that certain parts of the skin are supplied by nerves 
coming from the same centres that also send nerves to cer- 
tain internal organs. Thus the skin comes to be a sort of 
keyboard, by which the physician may operate and control 
the internal mechanism of the body, to regulate the circula- 
tion of the blood, etc. This is the basis for the modern 
scientific use of water and other forms of heat and cold in 
the treatment of disease. 

Sunburn. The skin, when long exposed to the direct 
rays of sunlight, reacts to the chemical rays of the sunshine 
by producing a mild condition of inflammation, commonly 
called sunburn. The skin that is sunburned, or thoroughly 
tanned, has a better circulation of blood through it than the 
white, pale skin of sedentary persons and those who live in- 
doors. 

The outer, horny layer of the skin is constantly dying, and 
must be removed by bathing and rubbing. It is for the re- 
moval of these dead scales of the skin that animals go in 
quest of the " rubbing-post." This is the purpose of daily 
grooming the horse. It is certainly true that some men take 
better care of their horses' skins than they do of their own. 
The skin must also be frequently washed for the purpose cf 
keeping the surface clean and removing the poisonous ex- 
cretions which are emptied out upon its surface by the 
myriads of sweat-glands. 



198 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



THE KIDNEYS 

The kidneys, in the excretion of urine, present a problem 
difficult of solution. The kidney cells seem to possess a 
power of selection that borders close on intelligence. They 
select certain substances from the blood and pass them 
through their walls out into the urinary canals. Other sub- 
stances which are useful to the body are untouched. Again, 
the kidney will not secrete sugar found in the blood until 
it reaches a certain per cent an amount harmful to the 
body, and then it begins the energetic secretion of sugar 
through the urine. As in the case of the salivary and other 
digestive glands, the kidneys present a problem in secretion 
that is not wholly explained by the principles of either 
physics or chemistry. 

The kidneys excrete a portion of the water contained in 
the blood, in the effort to keep the blood at the proper con- 
sistency. They maintain the balance in the water supply 
of the body, consequently the more one sweats, the less urine 
will be passed. A decrease in the amount of water drunk 
will also decrease the urine. The color of the urine varies 
from day to day. In health it is something of a straw-color. 
Urinary deposits, as ordinarily observed, are meaningless. 
They sometimes represent grave disease; but, on the other 
hand, healthy urine, if allowed to stand when containing 
certain elements, will present deposits of a brick-dust ap- 
pearance. 

Overworked kidneys. The kidneys are greatly injured 
and overworked by the eating of too much protein such 
substances as meat, dried beans, and cheese. Protein ashes, 
as previously noted, must be eliminated through the kidneys. 
Alcohol, tobacco, and other narcotics also greatly overtax 
and prematurely wear out the kidneys. Bright's disease is 
manifested where these organs have been long overworked, 
inflamed, and so worn out as the result of abuse, that they 
refuse to do their normal work. 

Failure to drink regularly a proper amount of water al- 
lows the urine to become high-colored and concentrated; 



REGULAR BATHING 199 

this is very irritating to the kidneys, and no doubt results in 
more or less injury to these organs. The health of the kid- 
neys, therefore, depends upon the cultivation of the regular 
water-drinking habit as outlined in the preceding chapter. 

HYGIENIC BATHING 

No one but the physician can know how extensively, how 
shamefully, regular bathing is neglected by the American 
people. While this matter of personal cleanliness is no 
doubt one which is improving from year to year, there is 
still a vast portion of the population who remain utterly in- 
different to the disease-dangers which follow the neglect of 
systematic bathing. Some one has said that regular bathing 
divides the population into two great classes, and that in 
the social evolution of the future, there will be found a great 
sociological gulf between the bathers and the non-bathers, 
as a result of the influence of this hygienic practice upon the 
mind and morals, as well as upon the body. 

We are aware that some have arisen among our own pro- 
fession, to declare that bathing is unnatural and unneces- 
sary; and we willingly admit that the savage, whose skin is 
constantly exposed to fresh air and sunshine, has little need 
of frequent bathing. Nevertheless, the bath is a hygienic 
necessity to the civilized races of this day, whose skins not 
only accumulate microbes and filth upon their surface as a 
result of our habits of dress, but are also debilitated, inactive, 
and sluggish, as a result of our indoor and other unnatural 
modes of living; all of which undesirable conditions are 
greatly helped, prevented, or relieved by frequent warm, 
cleansing soap baths, followed by short applications of cold 
water. 

The neglect of regular bathing results in weakening the 
function of the skin as an eliminating organ, and this throws 
extra work upon both the kidneys and the liver. Neglect 
of bathing produces a debilitated condition of the skin, which 
so weakens the body as to render its owner a constant vic- 
tim of colds, etc. 

In short, regular bathing is an antidote for the wearing of 



200 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

clothes. It serves in a measure to undo the mischief wrought 
by indoor living and physical inaction. Hot and cold water, 
together with vigorous rubbing of the skin, produce a 
nervous and circulatory reaction that would be natural and 
spontaneous if our skins were properly exposed to fresh air 
and sunlight, and if the sweat-glands were daily exercised 
by profuse perspiration. 

MORNING BATHING 

Morning bathing is an exceedingly valuable hygienic prac- 
tice. If properly taken, the cold bath harms no one and 
will do positive good to the majority of people in good or 
average health. The cold morning bath may be taken in 
the form of a wet hand rub, wet towel rub, cold sponge, the 
full bath plunge, etc. It is well for beginners to make use 
of the sponge bath, or the wet hand rub, and take the more 
vigorous baths later, if agreeable. 

Persons of nervous temperament those who are emaci- 
ated or under weight. will find it best, especially in the 
winter, to take their cold morning bath in a warm room and, 
as a rule, to precede it by a short application of hot water. 
Such persons are benefited by the reaction they obtain from 
the cold morning bath, but they can ill afford to lose the 
heat and nervous energy which are required to react from 
the cold water. Such thin-blooded and emaciated individ- 
uals do far better to borrow the necessary heat to react 
from the cold morning bath, from a short warm bath taken 
immediately before the cold bath. In carrying out this plan, 
one could take a hot shower for a few moments, followed 
by the cold shower, or rub the body thoroughly with hot 
water, followed by cold rubbing, or cleanse the body with 
warm water, and then, standing up in the bathtub, have 
several pailfuls of cold water quickly poured over them. 

A POWERFUL NATURAL TONIC 

The cold bath taken morning by morning serves as a tonic 
to the whole system. It is a course of gymnastics for the 






' 




! 







REGULAR BATHING 2OI 

skin. If practised continuously, it will greatly improve the 
health and activity of the skin, and by keeping the blood 
circulating properly through the skin, it will be of great 
service to the healthy action of every internal organ. It is 
one of the best preventives of cold with which we are ac- 
quainted. By frequent cold bathing the skin becomes ac- 
customed to low temperatures, so that drafts are unable to 
disturb the circulation of the blood. The morning cold bath 
should always be followed by prolonged and vigorous rub- 
bing of the skin with a coarse Turkish towel or other ma- 
terial with a rough surface. 

When one washes the face with cold water on arising in 
the morning, it will be recalled how refreshed he feels im- 
mediately after. This refreshment results from the applica- 
tion of water to but a few square inches of skin surface on 
the face, as its skin is reflexly related, through the nervous 
system, to the brain. The cold bathing of the face produces 
sensations just as if the brain itself had been bathed, and 
this accounts for the marked awakening influence. Various 
other organs of the body are just as grateful for the refresh- 
ment which the application of cold water to the skin brings 
them, even if they do not possess the nervous means of ex- 
pressing their gratitude as in the case of the brain. 

THE CLEANSING BATH 

Regular cold morning bathing will not suffice to keep the 
skin clean and healthy from week to week. Not less than 
twice a week (some individuals require at least three baths 
a week) a hot soapsuds bath should be taken. It is best to 
take this bath just before retiring, as it should be hot enough 
and long enough to induce free perspiration. One should 
stand up in this hot bath and moisten the hair and face 
at least the face in cold water, before immersing the 
body. This is to protect the blood-vessels of the brain and 
prevent headaches or possible rupture of small vessels in the 
brain from the sudden rush of blood to the head. It is well 
to lie in the bath from five to ten minutes, until sweating is 
well established, and then the body can be thoroughly lath- 



202 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ered with soap, vigorously rubbed with a coarse shampoo 
brush, flesh sponge, or rough Turkish washcloth, after which 
the body is again immersed in the hot water for from three 
to five minutes. Arising from the hot immersion bath, the 
skin should be immediately cooled and toned up by the quick 
application of cold water, accompanied by vigorous rubbing. 
This can be done by means of the cold shower, the pouring 
of a bucket of water over the shoulders, or by cold hand 
rubbing. After this the skin should be carefully dried and 
fanned with a sheet or towel until the body feels comfort- 
able neither overheated nor chilly. Then go at once to 
bed, and see that the covering is so adjusted for a few mo- 
ments that the skin does not break out in perspiration. 

Individuals in good health, who are not troubled with fre- 
quent colds, will find this bath taken two or three times a 
week to represent all the bathing necessary to keep the skin 
clean and in good health. If the skin circulation is good, 
hands and feet always warm, and the skin otherwise healthy, 
the health does not demand that one should take cold morn- 
ing baths. However, the regular cold morning bath will 
certainly do even such healthy individuals no harm. With 
such it is merely a matter of choice and convenience whether 
or not they take morning baths. 

BATHING FACILITIES 

It is difficult to understand why men and women of educa- 
tion will spend thousands of dollars in artistic furnishing 
and unnecessary ornamentation of their homes, and utterly 
neglect to provide adequate bathing facilities and other 
hygienic requirements. Many a mansion has a bathroom too 
small to permit the placing of even a full-length bathtub 
one long enough to allow the bather to recline during the 
bath. The bathroom of the future should be more gener- 
ous, to permit of showers and at least a full bathtub in which 
the weekly soap wash can be taken with comfort. Room 
should also be provided for at least a folding bath cabinet 
for taking a sweat bath at times when some member of the 
family is threatened with a cold. At but small expense, an 



REGULAR BATHING 203 

electric light bath cabinet could be added to the bathroom, 
which probably represents the ideal form of sweat bath. 
Space should also be provided for a narrow treatment or 
massage table, which could be used for various home treat- 
ments such as hot blanket packs, etc. 

Every bathroom should be supplied with an enema can 
that will hold two or three quarts of water, as it is certainly 
more desirable to resort to the warm soapsuds enema for 
relieving obstinate constipation now and then, than to de- 
pend entirely upon irritating drugs and cathartics. The fre- 
quent flushing of the bowel is liable to produce the " enema 
habit," but even this is probably not so harmful as the 
" cathartic habit." The undesirable results of washing out 
the bowel with warm water can be somewhat antidoted by 
the practice of taking a small enema of cool water, after the 
bowel has been thoroughly cleansed and emptied. This 
tones up the relaxed bowel and greatly aids in producing 
natural movements the following day. 

OUTDOOR BATHING 

Summer bathing is an excellent health practice if not over- 
done. The swimming-tanks now so common in connection 
with gymnasiums, are a great blessing to the people. The 
public baths of our great cities are a godsend to the poor. 
The author was connected with the movement to establish 
the first free baths in the city of Chicago. It was a common 
sight to see scores of men standing in line as early as six 
o'clock in the morning, waiting for their turn to get a free 
bath. Now the city has erected numerous well-equipped, 
splendid bathing establishments in different sections, for the 
accommodation of its citizens. 

In many of the swimming tests and outdoor water sports, 
the exercise is certainly greatly overdone, and often injures 
the health. 

While sea bathing is a most healthful and hygienic prac- 
tice, it is much overdone, especially by frail, delicate in- 
dividuals. Sea water is a good skin tonic, and on account 
of its low temperature, as well as its- salt, it is very beneficial 



204 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

to the skin and general health, if one does not stay too long 
a time in the water. Too long bathing in the sea overtaxes 
the reactionary powers of the nervous system and results in 
the loss of too much heat on the part of the body. As a re- 
sult, the individual is debilitated, and this experience is fol- 
lowed by headache, lassitude, and depression. Otherwise, 
outdoor bathing, swimming in lakes, sea bathing, etc., are to 
be commended as wholesome and healthful. 

A sudden plunge into cold water upon a very hot day is 
attended with grave danger. On the part of the young and 
robust, it is attended with the dangers of cramp and conse- 
quent drowning. With middle-aged and elderly persons, 
there is great danger of sunstroke and apoplexy, especially 
the latter. 

THE NEUTRAL BATH 

The neutral bath is given at a temperature of 95 to 97 
F. It should not be above or below these temperatures. 
This is the great sleep-producing bath. While this book is 
devoted chiefly to the discussion of the preservation of health 
and the prevention of disease, it may not be out of place to 
mention briefly some of the common baths which may be 
used in the household for the relief of sleeplessness, pain, 
etc. 

When tired, exhausted, nervous, fidgety, or unable to sleep, 
one should avoid both hot and cold baths. As a rule, they 
will only make matters worse, whereas the neutral bath, 
when taken with a thermometer in the tub so as to main- 
tain a temperature of about 95 or 96 throughout the bath, 
will invariably result in quieting the nerves, resting the body, 
and favoring sleep. 

In by far the majority of cases, the resort to drugs and 
sleeping powders to obtain rest would be rendered unneces- 
sary by the use of the neutral bath. It sometimes requires 
two or three nights for the bath to give the best results. 
Light massage or gentle rubbing of the body has something 
of the same effect as the neutral bath, and will sometimes put 
a patient to sleep as effectually as a dose of medicine. 



REGULAR BATHING 205 

After taking these baths, and upon going to bed, one should 
see that the feet are warm, using a hot water bottle if neces- 
sary. 

The neutral bath or a slightly warmer bath (about 100 
F.) is of great value in quieting nervous children and even 
in relieving convulsions. 

THE HOT BATH. 

The very hot bath, or sweat bath whether taken by 
means of the vapor cabinet (Fig. 18), electric light cab- 
inet, Russian or Turkish baths, the hot full bath, or even 
the hot shower or spray results in increasing the ac- 
tivity of the skin, promoting elimination, and greatly in- 
creasing the circulation of the blood. It is good for all con- 
ditions of pain or extreme fatigue. The very hot bath fol- 
lowing a long walk is the best means of preventing muscle- 
soreness the next day. All conditions of rheumatism, gout, 
etc., are greatly helped by frequent hot bathing or sweating. 
When one is coming down with a cold, the prolonged hot 
bath in connection with the drinking of hot lemonade, to- 
gether with a cathartic and thorough cleansing of the bowels 
by enema, will often prove successful in breaking it up. 
The uses of the hot bath in diseases are so many that it is 
impossible to describe them properly in a work of this size. 

THE COLD BATH 

The cold graduated bath is started at about 95 F. and 
gradually reduced to 75. It is invaluable in the treatment 
of typhoid and other long-continued fevers; but, as a rule, 
these baths are given by trained nurses, and therefore the de- 
tails will not be given here. 

In conditions of health, the cold bath will be found of 
more service than frequent hot bathing. The healthy in- 
dividual should limit his hot baths to the regular soap 
washes taken at night for the purpose of keeping the skin 
clean. If other baths are taken, they had better be cool or 
cold, as the reaction from heat is depressing, while the re- 



206 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

action from the cold bath is tonic, invigorating, and strength- 
ening. 

Cold bathing is useful in disease. It is good for neuras- 
thenia or nervous prostration. It is beneficial in most 
forms of dyspepsia and constipation. In fact, the modern 
science of medicine possesses no more powerful means of 
controlling such a vast number of diseases as is found in the 
various forms of local and general cold bathing. 

The short cold bath, either with or without the preceding 
hot bath, is a hygienic luxury which all civilized nations 
should learn to appreciate. The quickened circulation, with 
the red glow of the skin and the feeling of renewed strength 
and well-being, constitutes the reaction from the short cold 
bath; it also represents that condition of the skin which 
would be normal and natural if we were all in perfect health, 
having our skins constantly exposed to the influence of the 
air, sunlight, and life out of doors, in an equable climate, 
free from the debilitating influences of the impure air of 
overheated houses. 

TONIC BATHING. 

Outside of the ordinary cleansing baths, the majority of 
people need to take baths in order to tone up the skin and 
nervous system. Tonic bathing is effected by the use of 
both hot and cold water. The alternate application of hot 
and cold is the most powerful known tonic to the skin cir- 
culation and nervous system. The hot water should be 
taken first followed by the cold. For instance: supposing 
that one has an ordinary overhead shower bath. The water 
should be turned on as hot as can be borne for about one 
minute (the time can be longer or shorter, adapted to the 
comfort and pleasure of the patient). The hot water should 
be instantly turned off and cold water as cold as obtain- 
able should be immediately turned upon the body. The 
cold water should be taken from five to twenty seconds 
(this time can also be made a little longer or shorter, suited 
to the comfort of the patient). The cold water should be in- 
stantly shut off and the hot water turned on again for about 



REGULAR BATHING 2O? 

one minute; then the cold water, etc., etc. Always begin 
with hot and end with cold. This constitutes the ideal tonic 
course of treatment. 

Thousands of people who are lingering to-day in semi- 
invalidism, could cure themselves by taking some such daily 
course of tonic treatment, followed by vigorous rubbing of 
the skin and a short walk in the open air of course, in the 
meantime, giving due attention to other matters of hygiene 
as regards diet, sleep, etc. 

Tonic baths are best taken in the morning directly on 
rising, or during the forenoon. As a rule, it is best to avoid 
taking such treatment at night, when the nervous system is 
tired and the body worn out. 

These tonic baths are good for the majority of individ- 
uals who are not seriously sick, but who are not in the best 
of health. Tired feelings upon waking up in the morning, 
dyspepsia, constipation, biliousness, obesity, pale skin, cold 
hands and feet, headaches, catarrh, frequent colds, sluggish 
circulation, nervousness, etc., are greatly relieved and often- 
times entirely cured by this variety of treatment. 

INFANT BATHING 

Perhaps the bathing of infants is not so generally neg- 
lected as formerly; nevertheless, the majority of children, 
especially in large cities, are under-bathed. It should be re- 
membered that children under five or six years of age do 
not react well to cold water; therefore it is not wise to un- 
dertake any heroic courses of cold bathing for infants or 
young children. Beginning with the infant of a few days 
old, the warm bath should be given daily, or at least every 
other day. As the child becomes a year old, the temperature 
of the water can be slightly lowered. At one to two years 
of age, the babe can be safely cooled by wetting the hands 
with water cooler than the bath. At three years of age, the 
child may be safely cooled off by pouring over it water some- 
what colder than the warm bath. At four or five, he will 
stand cool bathing moderately well, and by the time he is 



208 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

five or six years of age, will react very well to all ordinary 
cold baths and cold finishings of warm baths. 

BATHS IN FEVER 

In reducing the fever of children by means of baths, it is 
best not to use the cold bath as it is sometimes used with 
adults, but to use the graduated bath. That is, put the 
child in the bath at a temperature of about 95 F. and lower 
the temperature one or two degrees every two or three 
minutes, until by this means the bath is gradually brought 
down to from 65 to 75. The skin can be rubbed all the 
while to prevent chilling. 

Some authorities recommend bathing children in the morn- 
ing, and there are some things to be said in favor of this 
practice. The author has for some time practised giving 
children their baths just before retiring. The little ones 
are more or less worn out from the day's activity; and, 
especially to children from one to three years of age, who 
are able to run about, the evening bath just before the last 
meal is very grateful and aids in promoting refreshing sleep 
and rest. 

BATHS FOR THE AGED 

People above sixty years of age, or those with hardened 
arteries and high blood-pressure, cannot safely indulge in 
the vigorous bath practices of their earlier years. It is neces- 
sary to change the temperatures in the alternate hot and 
cold baths very slowly for old people. They do not stand 
cold water so well for the reason that the skin is losing 
its power of reaction it is becoming leathery and inelastic. 
Likewise, the sudden application of very cold water is at- 
tended with more or less danger of rupturing the small 
blood-vessels in the brain. Even old people with high blood- 
pressure can stand a moderate amount of cold water, and 
should always end their hot baths with short applications 
of cold; but it must be done more carefully and judiciously 
than in the case of the young and robust. 



REGULAR BATHING 



BATHING HINTS 

1. It is unhealthful and dangerous to take a general bath 
immediately after eating. One should not bathe for at 
least two hours after a hearty meal. Short sponge baths 
or wet hand rubs may be safely taken within an hour or 
an hour and a half after meals, but even they are best taken 
after the lapse of two hours. 

2. Fleshy people should take alternate hot and cold baths. 
That is, sweating baths, electric light baths, etc., until the 
perspiration runs freely; then a cold shower from one to 
two minutes, followed by exercises ; then more sweating, 
more cold water, and more exercises, according to the 
strength of the patient. This is the best reducing treatment. 
Reducing by sweating alone is very weakening and burns 
up the muscles as well as the fat. 

3. Those who fear cold water should begin by rubbing 
cold water or ice water vigorously on one part of the body 
at a time, like the two arms. Then rub the chest, the back, 
the legs, etc. In this way, within a week or two, even the 
most timid will learn to enjoy cold water. 

4. There is danger of over-hot baths or over-sweating, 
especially to thin people, and those with weakened hearts 
and kidney diseases. 

5. It is not a good plan to swim vigorously just before 
eating, or to take any other form of extremely hot or cold 
bath immediately before the meal. At least thirty minutes 
should elapse between these vigorous baths and eating. 

6. In swimming, care should be taken not to overwork the 
heart, as it may be dilated and permanently injured. Re- 
member that cramps are acquired on very hot days, es- 
pecially when entering the water in a state of fatigue or 
perspiration. 

7. The ordinary individual should have a healthy reaction 
following the cold bath and friction within one or two min- 
utes. If the reaction is longer delayed, hot water should be 
employed before the bath. 

14 



210 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

8. The duration of baths 

Very cold baths, from I to 5 seconds. 

Cool baths, 10 to 30 seconds. 

Tepid and warm baths, i to 2 minutes. 

Hot baths, 5 to 15 minutes. 

Very hot baths, not over I to 2 minutes. 

Neutral baths (95 to 97) may be con- 
tinued indefinitely. 

9. If one wants to secure the tonic or strengthening ef- 
fect of baths, lower the temperature a little each day or 
every few days. 

10. Children, or very nervous and weak persons, must 
begin cool or cold bathing gradually as they are likely to 
be exhausted from the reaction. 

11. Methods which influence and favor reaction from cold 
baths : 

The colder the water, the stronger and quicker the reaction. 

The better reaction is secured from icewater briefly applied, 
than from warmer water longer applied. 

Patients with high fever always react well to cold water. 

Strong persons in ordinary flesh react best, but the very fat 
and very thin react poorly. 

Persons never react well when fatigued. 

Those who are used to cold baths react best. 

Persons who have a great fear of cold water are not likely to 
react well, until this fear is overcome or the skin is trained to 
react to cold. 

12. As a rule, a short brisk walk in the open air or some 
other form of physical exercise is beneficial, immediately 
after the cold morning bath. 

13. Pain is best relieved by heat hot salt bags or the 
hot water bottle, or flannels wrung out of boiling water and 
applied with a dry flannel between the fomentation and the 
skin. From three to six applications should be made to re- 
lieve pain. 

14. Dizziness, headache, chilly sensations running up and 
down the back, or sleeplessness following baths, indicate 
that the bath was too vigorous; or, in the case of cold 




in wef sheet gnd COVE red with dry wheels 




Wrapped //? bath sheets and blankets 
FIG. 1 9.- I/lustrations- of the Wet 5heef 



REGULAR BATHING 211 

morning baths, that short hot baths should precede the 
cold bath. 

15. Do not forget to bathe the mouth regularly. The 
toilet of the mouth consists of two parts: 

a. The proper cleaning or washing of the teeth by means of 

some slightly antiseptic tooth-paste or powder, and 

b. The cleansing of the mouth, which is very effectively accom- 

plished by means of ordinary cinnamon water. 

The proper care of the mouth demands cleansing each 
morning upon rising, and washing after each meal. Many 
dyspeptics will find much of the bad taste in the mouth 
disappearing, if this is regularly practised. 

16. When threatened with cold, the hot blanket pack is 
an excellent preventive. The blanket is wrung out of boil- 
ing water and applied as hot as the skin can stand, with 
hot water bottles placed about the feet and legs, cold cloth 
on the head, accompanied by the liberal drinking of hot 
lemonade. After this bath, the skin should be rubbed all 
over with very cold water and a rough towel, and the pa- 
tient put to bed. 

17. The wet sheet pack is an excellent means of relieving 
fever. The sheet is wrung out of ice water and 'frequently 
changed, or if allowed to remain about the patient, who is 
wrapped up in a blanket in addition, until it becomes warm, 
it is a sleep-producing and quieting measure. (Fig. 19.) 

There is almost no end to the uses of water in the treat- 
ment of disease; but since this volume is devoted to the 
consideration of health rather than disease, we must reserve 
the further discussion of the treatment of disease by water 
and other natural agencies, for the future. 



CHAPTER XV 

THE CIRCULATION, OR THE HIGH-PRESSURE LIFE 

STRUCTURE OF THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. PHYSIOLOGY OF 
THE CIRCULATION. THE FUNCTION OF THE BLOOD. BLOOD PURI- 
FIERS. BLOOD-MAKING FOODS. BLOOD PRESSURE. WHY AMERI- 
CANS SUCCEED. THE HIGH-PRESSURE LIFE. RESULTS OF HIGH 
PRESSURE. HABITS AND PRACTICES CAUSING HIGH BLOOD-PRES- 
SURE. NATURAL PROCEDURES WHICH LOWER PRESSURE. FALSE 
AND HARMFUL METHODS OF LOWERING BLOOD-PRESSURE. NATURAL 
PROCEDURES WHICH RAISE PRESSURE. 

THE words of the Old Book are true: "The blood is 
the life." The blood is the " living stream that turns 
the wheels of life." The heart is a living pump, and its 
outbranching blood-vessels are living canals through which 
flows the vital stream of life. 

STRUCTURE OF THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 

The heart is a hollow, muscular organ about the size of 
the fist. (Fig. 20.) It consists of four compartments, two 
on either side. The heart muscle fibres are peculiar to 
themselves, resembling both voluntary and involuntary mus- 
cle. The two lower and larger chambers of the heart are 
called ventricles. The upper and smaller chambers are 
called auricles. The heart contains four sets of valves 
which guard the openings between its various chambers, as 
well as the large vessels leading to the lungs and the gen- 
eral circulation. 

Blood-vessels. The blood-vessels consist of arteries, veins, 
and capillaries. The arteries carry the blood away from the 
heart to various parts of the body, and consist of three dis- 
tinct layers, a delicate inner lining, called endothelium, 
with middle and outer layers of muscular, elastic, and con- 

212 



THE CIRCULATION 213 

nective tissues. The veins are not so strong as the arteries ; 
their walls are so weak that they ordinarily collapse when 
cut crosswise. The larger veins contain numerous valve- 
like arrangements to prevent the back flow of the blood. 
The capillaries are a system of small blood-vessels which 
connect the arteries with the veins. Like the arteries, they 
possess contractile power. 

The heart, arteries, and veins are all liberally supplied 
with blood-vessels and nerves, as these canals for the con- 
veyance of the living stream must themselves be nourished 
by the blood. Nerves are richly distributed throughout the 
walls of all the blood-vessels, even to the capillaries. 

The lymph vessels really have no individual structure. 
They are simply spaces between the tissues, which permit 
of the collection of lymph,, and serve to conduct it back to 
the blood-vessels. 

PHYSIOLOGY OF THE CIRCULATION, 

The heart beats regularly about seventy times a minute. 
It is a pear-shaped organ with the apex pointed down. It 
is this pointed, lower portion of the heart which can be 
felt tapping against the chest wall, just below the fifth rib, 
each time the heart beats. The beating of the heart pro- 
duces a sound something like " lub-dup." This is due to 
the movement of the blood through its chambers and the 
sudden closure of its valves, and may be compared to the 
thumping and clicking sounds of the pump when pumping 
water. 

The heart is supplied with two sets of nerves one which 
quickens the beat, and another which slows it down. While 
the heart starts the circulation of the blood, its movement 
is maintained by a contracting, milking action of the arteries 
and capillaries. The circulation of the blood is also as- 
sisted by deep breathing, by the contraction of the muscles, 
and all forms of physical exercise. The heart serves as 
the great regulator of the circulation, constantly beating, 
yet ever changing its beat; pumping sometimes fast at 



214 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

other times slowly; constantly altering its action to suit the 
needs and requirements of the body. 

The circulation of the body fluids is divided into four 
distinct systems (Fig. 20), as follows: 

1. The pulmonary circulation. The blood is emptied by 
the venous system into the right side of the heart. Passing, 
while the heart is at rest, from the right auricle to the 
right ventricle, it is forced by the heart's contraction into 
the vessel leading to the lungs the pulmonary artery. In 
the lungs, it is distributed by a vast and wonderful system 
of small capillaries whose walls are so thin that they permit 
of the exchange of gases between the bodies of the red 
blood corpuscles and the atmosphere contained in the minute 
air chambers of the lungs. After the blood has in this way 
changed its poisonous CO 2 gas for the life-giving oxygen, 
it is gathered up by other capillaries and vessels which form 
the pulmonary vein, and that vein in turn discharges the 
purified blood into the left auricle of the heart. 

2. The systemic circulation. During the resting stage 
of the heart, the pure blood of the left auricle passes into 
the left ventricle, and, during the heart's contraction, is 
forced into the aorta that great arching artery of the 
chest, which sends blood-vessels upward and downward, to 
branch and rebranch to every part of the living body. The 
arteries carry the red blood the healthy blood. As the 
arteries grow smaller and smaller, the blood moves slower 
and slower. As it circulates through the small capillaries 
surrounding the living cells and tissues, the red blood cor- 
puscles give up their oxygen and absorb the poisonous CO 2 
and other gases. 

. The red blood corpuscles not only carry the fresh air of 
the lungs to every part of the body to keep up the draft, as 
it were, in the furnace of life, they perform a double duty. 
In addition to their essential work as air-carriers they as- 
sume the role of smoke-carriers, actually removing from 
the body the smoke consisting of carbon dioxide and other 
poisonous gases by carrying these to the lungs, where 



ARTERIES PULMONARY CIRCULATION/^} VEINS 



DIAGRAM OF THE CIRCULATION 




Fl G. 2O- The Heart and Circulation pf the Blood. 



THE CIRCULATION 215 

they are thrown out from the body, just as smoke is car- 
ried by the chimney up from the furnace. 

As the blood leaves the capillaries and enters the veins, 
it has lost its bright red color, by means of its loss of 
oxygen. The smaller veins leading from the capillaries 
unite to form larger veins, which join to form the vcn:c 
caves, which empty the blood into the right side of the heart, 
thus completing its circuit through the body. 

3. The portal circulation. The liver is the filter of the 
body. All the blood which is gathered up from the stomach, 
bowels, pancreas the organs of digestion the blood 
which is liable to be poisoned or contaminated from bad 
food or indigestion, is carried by means of a special set of 
blood-vessels uniting to form the portal vein, which in turn 
empties into the liver. This blood is filtered through the 
liver, coming in contact with its living cells, which in a 
very marvellous manner carefully select the poisonous sub- 
stances of the blood and either destroy or modify them, after 
which the blood is again gathered up, as in the case of the 
capillary system of the lungs, and carried by the hepatic 
vessels back into the general circulation. 

4. The lymphatic circulation. As the blood flows through 
the capillaries, its liquid portion (all except the blood-cells) 
passes through the capillary walls actually leaks out - 
circulates about the individual cells and tissues, bathing 
them with its nourishing substances. This lymph or serum 
must find its way back into the blood-stream after it has 
yielded up its food substances to the cells and has taken up 
from the cells their poisonous excretions. The lymph chan- 
nels serve this purpose. They are really spaces between 
the tissues and cells. They grow larger and larger as they 
approach the region of the heart, and empty the serum into 
the veins, where it is again mixed with the blood and car- 
ried to the heart. On the way of the lymphatics to the 
veins, are found many peculiar structures called lymph 
glands. These are the filters of the lymphatic system, and 
in them poisons and disease germs,- are crippled and de- 
stroyed. 



2l6 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

All the blood of the body (or a volume equal thereto) 
passes through the heart every minute. The arteries the 
blood-vessels leading out from the heart have been esti- 
mated to represent a length of about one thousand miles. 
The skin is richly supplied with capillaries containing about 
ten thousand square feet. The heart does a work every 
twenty-four hours equal to lifting about one hundred and 
twenty-four tons one foot high. 

The pulse is usually taken at the wrist by feeling the 
radial artery, which pulsates with each heartbeat. It is 
about 68 to 70 in the adult, about 64 or 65 when lying down, 
and up toward 100 while walking. The pulse rate is a lit- 
tle higher in children and very old people. 

THE FUNCTION OF THE BLOOD. 

The Wood-stream is both the food-provider and the 
scavenger of the body. The blood is really a travelling 
market or supply from which every little cell and tissue of 
the body chooses the elements adapted to its nourishment. 
At the same time, the blood is constantly absorbing poison- 
ous substances which find their way into the body with the 
food, or which are generated in the body, either by errors 
in the digestive process or by the normal activities of the 
living cells. These various substances, which are poisonous 
to life if allowed to accumulate in the body, are systematic- 
ally gathered up by the circulating blood, and carried to 
liver, lungs, and kidneys, where they are thrown out from 
the body or, as in the case of the liver, converted into harm- 
less products. 

The blood-stream also serves the purpose of conveying the 
red blood corpuscles the oxygen-carriers and smoke-re- 
movers to the uttermost parts of the living organism. 
It also serves as a home and circulating channel for the 
white blood corpuscles or leucocytes, which constitute the 
standing army of the body in its defence against disease, 
and whose work will be more fully described in a succeed- 
ing chapter. 



THE CIRCULATION 21 J 



BLOOD PURIFIERS 

There is a deep-seated notion in the minds of most people, 
that the blood needs purifying at springtime; and for this 
purpose vast quantities of sarsaparilla and patent medicines 
are swallowed by the victims of sluggish livers, despondency, 
constipation, and auto-intoxication, in the vain hope of puri- 
fying the blood and thereby escaping some of the afflictions 
peculiar to the return of the warm season. 

No greater delusion was ever connected with the subject of 
health and disease than that of blood purifiers. One can- 
not purify the blood by putting some ill-tasting or bad-smell- 
ing drug into it. The blood must be purified by the in- 
telligent eating of pure food and the liberal drinking of 
pure water, and by the proper action of skin, kidneys, lungs, 
and liver. These are the measures by which the impurities 
found in the blood are excreted and eliminated from the 
body. 

The blood must be purified by getting rid of its impurities. 
If the blood is supplied with only pure food and pure 
water; if the process of digestion is kept healthy, and the 
stomach and bowels are free from rotting masses of food; 
nature will quickly purify the blood by casting out the solid 
impurities through the kidneys, by passing out the liquid 
poisons through the skin and bowels, by throwing out the 
gaseous poisons through the lungs, and finally by sifting 
and modifying the residue by the wonderful filtering powers 
of the liver. 

The work of blood-purifying, then, consists in following 
out the directions concerning proper breathing, water drink- 
ing, bathing, eating, digestion, etc., fully discussed in pre- 
ceding chapters. One of the best possible means of purify- 
ing the blood is to subsist upon a fruit diet for three or 
four days. Three or four times a day eat liberally of fresh, 
ripe fruit. This is probably the best-known means of 
quickly and thoroughly cleansing the blood-stream. Pure, 
unfermented fruit juice is valuable for this same purpose, 
and may be used for two or three days. This is a good 



2l8 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

practice in springtime for those who have foul breath, 
coated tongue, dyspepsia, biliousness, constipation, etc. The 
old practice of giving sulphur at spring-time was not so 
bad, as sulphur serves to clean out the bowels thoroughly. 

BLOOD-MAKING FOODS 

The protein foods are commonly regarded as blood-mak- 
ing foods, but all good foods which are properly digested 
and assimilated are blood-forming foods. Each food ele- 
ment has its proper place. A certain amount of iron must 
be present for the use of the red blood corpuscles. Digested 
starch or sugar is required by the white blood cells for their 
nourishment. It is a delusion to suppose that any particular 
food peculiarly nourishes some special organ of the body. 
The idea that fish is a brain food, that celery is a nerve 
food, etc., is entirely a mistaken one, except in so far as 
these foods contain special chemical elements which may 
be required by some special organ or tissue of the body, as 
in the case of the bones of growing children, which es- 
pecially require lime salts, etc. 

BLOOD-PRESSURE 

As regards health and disease, the most important item 
connected with the study of the circulation is the subject of 
blood-pressure. We have only recently come to understand 
how important this question is in its relation to health. 

The one thing characteristic of the present day social and 
commercial world is its high tension. Everybody is keyed 
up to the last notch. People are living at a fierce pace, 
and the pressure-gauge of life registers all the while dan- 
gerously near the bursting point. 

Deaths from Bright's disease, heart failure, apoplexy, and 
various other high-pressure maladies, are enormously on 
the increase. The following editorial, which sometime ago 
appeared in a Chicago daily paper, gives the high-pressure 
tension of modern business as the reason for American 
commercial success : 



THE CIRCULATION 219 

Why Americans succeed 

" It is largely a question of pressure. The nations of Europe, 
and especially the English, wonder at the success of the Ameri- 
can people. If any Englishman wants to know why the Ameri- 
can race can beat the English race in the struggle for industrial 
precedence, let him stand on one of the down-town platforms 
of the Illinois Central Railroad in Chicago from seven until 
nine in the morning as the suburban trains come in. 

" Far outside of the station the train appears, puffing and 
panting, and while" it is still going at dangerous speed, men, 
young and old, are seen leaning far out from every platform. 

" As the train rushes in, the men leap from the cars and a wild 
rush follows for the business district. Not a man is walking 
slowly and deliberately. It is one rush to business ; it is one 
rush all day; it is one rush home again. 

" The gauge on the engine tells the pressure of steam and the 
work that the engine can do. The gauge on the American hu- 
man being stands at high pressure all the time. His brain is 
constantly excited ; his machinery is working with a full head of 
steam. 

" Tissues are burned up rapidly, and the machine often burns 
up sooner than it should. The man bald and gray in his youth, 
the man a victim of dyspepsia, of nervousness, of narcotics and 
stimulants, is a distinct American institution. He is an engine 
burned out before his time ; but his work has been done, and that 
great locomotive-works, the American mother, is forever supply- 
ing the demand for new engines to be run at dangerously high 
speed. 

" The American succeeds because he is under high pressure 
always ; because he is determined to make speed, even at the risk 
of bursting the boiler and wrecking the machine." 

This high pressure may yield commercial success, it may 
assist in the conquest of dollars; but it is frightfully ruinous 
to the mind and health of the American people. 

THE HIGH-PRESSURE LIFE 

What do we mean by the high-pressure life? We refer 
to those habits and practices which raise the blood-pressure 
within the arteries above normal. - There have been in- 
vented a number of instruments which have attachments 



220 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

that can be strapped around the arm, so that by means of 
pumping air into little rubber bags underneath, pressure can 
be applied to the blood-vessels. By means of a rubber tube, 
this air-pressure is communicated to a glass tube containing 
mercury, arranged somewhat after the plan of a barometer. 
(Fig. 20.) The pressure is now gradually removed until 
the pulse can just be felt, and then, on the graduated glass 
is read off how many millimetres of mercury ..re equivalent 
to the blood-pressure. An ordinary healthy person has a 
blood-pressure of between one hundred and ten and one 
hundred and thirty millimetres of mercury. This is about 
normal ; and under healthy conditions blood circulating at 
this pressure is able to find its way into all parts of the body 
and properly nourish every cell. 

Following the high-pressure career there may come sec- 
ondary low pressure, with its consequences of debility and 
depression, and its temptation to resort to the use of tonics 
and drugs that will tend to raise the pressure. 

There are certain substances which, when taken into the 
body, together with certain mental states, have power to 
influence the blood-pressure, some lowering it, while others 
cause it to rise. Now, when the blood-pressure is raised, 
it will be seen at once that more blood will circulate through 
the brain as well as through other parts of the body; and 
therefore when the blood-pressure is moderately high, since 
the blood is that which nourishes the body and gives it life, 
it will not be hard to imagine that such a person will feel 
exhilarated and buoyant able to enter the arena of society 
and business more confident of success, with hopes and 
courage all at top-notch. 

And, as will be seen in the further consideration of this 
subject, the American people are rapidly falling into those 
habits and practices which directly or indirectly produce 
high blood-pressure. And further, when they accidentally 
or finally fall under the influences or causes of low pressure, 
there is a constant tendency to resort to artificial means of 
producing high blood-pressure. 



THE CIRCULATION 221 

RESULTS OF HIGH BLOOD-PRESSURE 

The evil results of this high pressure will be considered 
before we take up the causes. They may be enumerated as 
follows : 

1. Arterio-sclerosis. High blood-pressure is the one great 
recognized cause of arterio-sclerosis degeneration and 
hardening of the arteries; and arterio-sclerosis is the real 
cause of old age, or senile degeneration. 

2. Apoplexy. Since high blood-pressure is the great cause 
of hardening of the arteries, it then becomes apparent that 
it is the indirect cause of apoplexy, for this is merely a rup- 
ture of the small arteries in the brain, which are unable 
to stand the enormous pressure required in order to force 
the blood through the stiff and shrunken vessels. 

3. Bright's disease. This is a condition in which the 
arteries of the kidney are shrivelling up as the result of 
poisons and high blood-pressure. This disease, with its at- 
tendant evils of dropsy and heart failure, is also largely at- 
tributable to high-pressure influences. 

4. Heart failure. It must be apparent that if the blood- 
pressure is to be constantly increased in order to nourish 
the body and overcome the growing resistance of the hard- 
ening arteries, the heart the great blood pump will be 
called upon to exert increased force; and this it does, by 
hypertrophy, until by and by the walls are over-stretched, 
the heart becomes permanently dilated, and when the end 
comes, it is called heart failure. Six times more people die 
in New York from heart failure than from typhoid fever. 

5. Certain mental diseases are also indirectly produced or 
influenced by high or low blood-pressure, such as mania, 
melancholy, etc., as well as ordinary nervousness, sleepless- 
ness, and many common, everyday maladies. 

It becomes a matter of interest, then, to find out what are 
the special causes, direct or indirect, of the high-pressure 
vice. 



222 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

HABITS AND PRACTICES CAUSING HIGH BLOOD- 
PRESSURE 

There are numerous drugs (strychnine, digitalis, etc.) 
which increase the blood-pressure, and which are used by 
doctors in heart disease and other conditions; but we will 
here consider only those commonly used by the public, and 
which are usually taken for their direct effect of increasing 
the blood-pressure. 

1. Cocaine. The use of cocaine constitutes the shortest 
known route to the insane asylum. It is a powerful raiser 
of blood-pressure; and this is why people who have used 
morphine for a while (which drug lowers the blood-pres- 
sure), are unconsciously led into the use of cocaine for the 
purpose of restoring the blood-pressure. 

It must be borne in mind that one ordinarily feels lan- 
guid, depressed, and good for nothing, when the blood-pres- 
sure is too low; whereas one usually feels exhilarated and 
tiptop when the pressure is high. Therefore, there is a 
constant tendency to make use of those things which in- 
crease the blood-pressure, or in cases of suffering from low 
pressure, to resort to the use of high-pressure producers to 
counteract the unpleasant low-pressure effects. The use of 
cocaine in the United States has more than trebled since 
1896. 

2. Tobacco. Tobacco stands foremost among the common 
causes of increased blood-pressure. It is well known that 
when a young man takes his first smoke, he is pale in the 
face; the small blood-vessels of the skin are strongly con- 
tracted; the blood is forced upon the internal organs. The 
blood-pressure, if taken at such a time, is found to be 
enormously raised; and so throughout life the effect of 
tobacco-using, due to the specific action of the nicotine and 
other poisons, is that of directly raising the blood-pressure. 
(A single cigar raises blood-pressure for over one hour.) 
The use of tobacco, then, may be regarded as one of the 



THE CIRCULATION 223 

prominent causes of increased blood-pressure in the present 
generation, and of many of the serious dangers and conse- 
quences following; namely, deranged nervous system, hard- 
ened arteries, kidney trouble, heart failure, and apoplexy. 

The enormous increase in the use of tobacco is astound- 
ing. Last year the American youth consumed enough ciga- 
rettes, if placed end to end, to go round the v/orld twice, 
and then from New York to San Francisco and back again. 
In other words, they smoked 3,210,353.015 manufactured 
cigarettes in one year, to say nothing about the untold 
sands that were made by the boys themselves from tobacco 
and paper. 

It is safe to estimate that there were smoked of cigarettes, 
to say nothing of cigars, % an average of five hundred for 
every young man in the United States between the ages of 
twelve and twenty. In addition to this, there were smoked 
last year in the United States, 6,707.471,863 cigars, to say 
nothing -about the enormous quantities of smoking tobacco 
and chewing tobacco used by the same people. These cigars, 
laid end to end, would reach considerably over half-way to 
the moon. There were used last year in the United States, 
twenty million pounds of snuff, although this habit is sup- 
posed to be obsolete. 

American men and boys, therefore, last year smoked at 
least ten thousand million cigars and cigarettes. These, if 
laid end to end, would reach almost from our earth to the 
moon (240,000 miles). 

The American people spend as much money every year 
for tobacco as for bread. This will give some idea of the 
enormous consumption of this poisonous weed, and throws 
much light on the cause of the modern strenuous life. 

There is a single tobacco company that has a capacity for 
making seven million cigarettes a day. 

3. Tea and coffee. The caffeine of coffee and the theine 
of tea are narcotic poisons which exert a direct influence in 
elevating the blood-pressure when taken into the system. 
They are very properly discussed uiider the head of " Drug 



224 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Causes of High Blood-Pressure/' notwithstanding the fact 
that they are so commonly used as beverages in connection 
with meals. 

There is used in the United States a hundred million 
pounds of tea and coffee a year. This is over ten pounds 
of tea and coffee a year for every man, woman and child in 
the country. Tea and coffee are freely used even by young 
children with tender nervous systems. We have the "tea- 
drinker's disorder," which is a disease recognized by the 
medical profession; and tea-topers are found among both 
men and women. This tea and coffee drinking is none 
the less a case of drug-addiction, even though it be taken 
at meal time, and notwithstanding that its use has become 
well-nigh universal. 

4. Condiments. It has been shown that the free use of 
all the condiments which are commonly used by Americans, 
with the exception of common table salt, nutmeg, and cin- 
namon, have power to raise the blood-pressure, to say noth- 
ing of their deleterious effects upon the digestive system. 
Those condiments which increase the blood-pressure are 
mustard, pepper, vinegar, cayenne, horseradish, and the 
other pungent seasoning substances. 

5. Flesh foods. The American people, in common with 
their English cousins, consume enormous quantities of the 
flesh of animals for food. All forms of flesh food contain 
certain irritating substances, such as uric acid which was 
circulating through the flesh of the animal at the instant of 
death, and which is swallowed along with the meat, and has 
power to raise the blood-pressure considerably, by its irritat- 
ing effect upon the tender linings of the blood-vessels and 
its influence upon the nervous system. 

That meat-eating directly raises blood-pressure has been 
shown by numerous and repeated observations. This, then, 
is another explanation of the high-pressure life of the 
American people. 

6. Auto -intoxication. When an excess of food is taken 
into the digestive tract, the machinery of digestion is 



THE CIRCULATION 225 

clogged; fermentation and putrefaction are favored, es- 
pecially if this excess is largely protein; and as a result, 
there are generated poisons which raise the blood-pressure. 

Auto-intoxication means self-poisoning, and refers to 
special poisons which may be produced in the body, due to 
derangement of digestion and metabolism, as in intestinal 
putrefaction. The colon of man is inhabited by untold 
billions of germs (colon bacilli) and these secrete a toxin 
or poison, which has a tendency to harden the blood-ves- 
sels and indirectly to raise blood-pressure. The same is 
true of the toxins of the various disease germs. 

Constipation indirectly favors a rise in blood-pressure by 
allowing large quantities of matter to accumulate in the 
bowel, thus favoring putrefaction and the retention of the 
poisons commonly originating in this part of the digestive 
tract. 

7. Exposure and arterio- sclerosis. By long-continued ex- 
posure of the skin, the blood is driven from the cutaneous 
vessels (as evidenced by the pallor and goose-flesh appear- 
ance). This forcing of the blood upon the internal organs 
greatly raises the blood-pressure. 

By the hardening of the arteries, as well as by their 
stiffening, the blood current is impeded and the arterial 
pressure is necessarily greatly raised in order to maintain 
the circulation. (Arterio-sclerosis is more commonly a re^ 
suit of high blood-pressure than a cause.) 

8. Worry and anxiety. Either of these mental states has 
been found to result in materially raising the blood-pressure. 
Worry is a foe to health. Anxiety is a mental poison that 
in many respects exerts the same deleterious effect on the 
body as literal poisons introduced from without. Those 
who would avoid high blood-pressure must avoid worry and 
anxious care. 

Disappointment and grief. Cankering care, corroding 
grief, and bitter disappointment, all act their part in produc- 
ing that condition of the nervous system which results in 
raising the blood-pressure. 
15 



226 THE. SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Anger. It is a well-known fact that victims of high 
blood-pressure often burst a blood-vessel during a fit of 
anger. Numbers of people have met their death in this 
way. This is due to the fact that anger and other intense 
emotions have power, through the nervous system, quickly 
to raise the blood-pressure. 

9. The strenuous life. Excitement directly raises the 
blood-pressure, and is probably one of the most common 
causes of high blood-pressure, outside of dietetic habits. 
Modern society exists in a state of more or less constant 
excitement. Every form of modern amusement is con- 
structed with a view to thrilling, startling, and exciting the 
spectator; and all this reacts upon the nervous system in 
disturbing the blood-pressure. The inordinate craving to 
be hurled through space at increasingly perilous speed is 
likewise both a cause and a result of the modern high-pres- 
sure regime. 

Gambling and other games of chance. These various en- 
gagements of chance all interfere with the blood-pressure 
by means of their worry, anxiety, excitement, and some- 
times the crushing disappointment and bitter remorse that 
must inevitably follow in the defeat that comes to all who 
risk their substance on the wheel of fortune. 

The strenuous life is that combination of modern methods 
of living which is the typical regime of modern money- 
makers. A strenuous life raises the blood-pressure; and, 
in contrast, the simple life lowers the blood-pressure. 

10. Moral causes of high pressure. An accusing con- 
science moral condemnation. This condition, in which 
one has lost peace of mind, indirectly contributes to a 
rise in blood-pressure. The one who is not at peace with 
God and man cannot maintain that state of mind and 
thought requisite to normal blood-pressure. Condemnation 
of conscience brings in its wake all those high-pressure- 
breeding influences of worry, anxiety, sorrow, remorse, etc. 
Moral doubts and -mental dissatisfaction are fatal to all 
those mental and mortal states which favor normal blood- 
pressure. 



THE CIRCULATION 227 

NATURAL PROCEDURES WHICH LOWER PRESSURE 

The reader has no doubt begun to ask if there are no 
natural and harmless agencies which can be used for the 
lowering of blood-pressure. Yes; fortunately for this gen- 
eration, there are certain simple and natural procedures 
which are exceedingly powerful and useful in lowering high 
blood-pressure, and which do not subsequently demand 
something to antidote their undesirable and depressing ef- 
fects. 

1. Exercise. Active physical exercise, to the point of 
gentle perspiration, brings a large amount of blood io the 
muscles. It dilates the vessels of the skin, producing a 
ruddy glow, the same as alcohol, only this dilation is even 
more permanent and is not followed by an undesirable re- 
action. Walking, riding, rowing, running, swimming, gym- 
nasium work, and all forms of exercise, preferably those 
in the open air, with the clothing loose and free, are all 
most powerful agents in lowering blood-pressure, and should 
be intelligently and systematically utilized by all moderately 
high-pressure victims. Passive exercise always lowers the 
blood-pressure from the very beginning. 

2. Massage and friction. In the case of feeble patients 
bedridden patients who cannot stand vigorous exercise, 
and those who have weak hearts or hardened arteries 
(which conditions make it unsafe for them to take the more 
vigorous exercise and baths) massage and friction are 
useful. 

The cold mitten friction, in which a rough mohair mit or 
Turkish cloth is dipped in ice water and rubbed over one 
part of the body at a time, is excellent for these cases. 
Dry friction is also useful. (Fig. 21.) 

Deep muscle massage. Deep massage of the muscles 
enormously increases the amount of blood circulating 
through them, and in this way relieves the general arterial 
tension. 

3. The neutral bath. This bath fowers pressure by dilat- 



228 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ing the vessels of the skin and quieting the heart. Try it 
some time when you are restless, nervous, fretful, can't 
sleep, head throbbing take a neutral bath, from 95 to 
97 F. 

4. The cold bath. The cold bath, likewise, by the vigor- 
ous reaction that follows it, lowers the blood-pressure. 
Warm baths must be continued for a number of minutes in 
order to lower the blood-pressure, and the neutral bath from 
fifteen to forty-five minutes, but cold baths must be short, 
in order to lower the blood-pressure. The salt bath or 
salt glow is doubly useful. 

5. Dry or moist heat. The sun bath is of great value 
in relieving high pressure, if properly taken, as it not 
only diverts blood to the skin, but the "sunburn" is a 
sort of physiological inflammation that causes the blood to 
circulate freely in the skin for days following exposure to the 
sun's rays. Keeping the skin warm helps in lowering blood- 
pressure. (Fig. 21.) 

Fomentations. These hot applications greatly dilate the 
blood-vessels of the skin, and so directly relieve the blood 
tension. 

The heating compress has a desirable effect in lowering 
blood-pressure, and consists of several thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Apply to the skin and cover 
with oilcloth, rubber sheeting, or mackintosh, and then 
wrap dry flannels around the whole so securely that no 
evaporation can take place. This procedure is of great 
value in the local treatment of high blood-pressure, as in 
the case of inflammation, etc. 

6. Sleep and rest, by their every influence, directly and 
indirectly, tend to lower the blood-pressure. It is very ap- 
parent that a kind Providence has provided the suffering 
race with many useful and inexpensive means for lowering 
the blood-pressure. Why should we resort to the unnatural 
agencies of harmful, habit-producing drugs in order to 
relieve the high-pressure tension and the nervous restless- 
ness of the age? Let us reform the diet, set the mind at 



Givind Cola Mitten Friction 




Fl G. 2 1 .- Cold Mitten Friction gnd the Sun Bath. 



THE CIRCULATION 229 

rest, eliminate all high-pressure causes, get the sweet peace 
that comes from religious consolation; and then, in times 
of temporary high pressure and unpleasant tension, resort 
to the simple baths, exercise, sun baths, massage, etc., for 
relief. 

7. Dietetic simplicity. Discard spices and condiments. 
In the battle against high pressure, it is necessary that all 
irritating condiments and spices should be cast out of the 
dietary. Vinegar has been found to be more powerful in 
producing hardening of the arteries in the liver than al- 
cohol. 

Vegetables, grains, fruits, and nuts, do not contain sub- 
stances which excite high pressure unless such foods as 
nuts and legumes are taken in too large quantities. The 
less meat eaten the better for the blood-pressure. 

Good, normal digestion, in which food is not allowed to 
remain too long in any one part of the digestive tract, con- 
tributes to keeping the blood-pressure normal by preventing 
the generation of high-pressure toxins as the result of indi- 
gestion. 

Regular bowel movement prevents the absorption of in- 
testinal toxins, which have a tendency to raise blood-pres- 
sure. 

8. Mental factors in lowering pressure. Cheerfulness and 
contentment. We need not repeat here what is stated in 
another chapter concerning the health-promoting possibili- 
ties of happiness. Mental cheerfulness is essential to good 
digestion. It promotes the circulation of the blood by its 
influence over the vaso-motor nerves, and thus indirectly 
influences the blood-pressure. Mental peace is a powerful 
anti-high-pressure influence. 

Self-control has been defined as temperance, and tem- 
perance is the keynote of success, in controlling blood-pres- 
sure. Regular and even habits of life favor normal 
pressure. 

9. Moral Muences which lower pressure. " A conscience 
void of offence toward God and men,'"' by its beneficent in- 



230 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

fluence upon the mind effectually eliminating all grounds 
for worry, remorse, and anxiety tends to promote and 
maintain a normal blood-pressure. 

Moral faith and spiritual trust are the climax of power 
in the battle against the high-pressure life. Faith and trust 
are the guardian angels of the simple life; they are the 
ancestors of every mental trait of happiness and self-control, 
all of which are powerful in preventing increased blood- 
pressure. 

FALSE AND HARMFUL METHODS OF LOWERING BLOOD- 
PRESSURE 

Having carefully considered the causes of high blood- 
pressure, together with natural and proper methods of con- 
trolling and lowering pressure, we will now briefly dis- 
cuss those false and dangerous practices and habits which 
tend to lower the pressure. These methods are transitory, 
deceptive, and exceedingly destructive; they represent the 
false hope of obtaining relief from the tension of the high- 
pressure life. 

While there are many drugs used temporarily by physi- 
cians for their influence in lowering blood-pressure, we will 
consider here only those which are administered by thou- 
sands of people to themselves. 

i. Morphine. Morphine lowers the blood-pressure; so, 
when the individual has used tobacco or cocaine, which re- 
sults in unduly raising the pressure, it is only natural that 
he should seek relief from this tension by the use of either 
alcohol or morphine. This is why alcohol and tobacco 
go hand in hand, tobacco producing high pressure, alcohol 
relieving the tension by producing a low pressure; but a 
low pressure cannot be long tolerated the individual must 
have something to tone him up /to restore the pressure, and 
this is secured by more tobacco. Likewise, morphine and 
cocaine play into each other's hands the one temporarily 
counteracting the effects of the other, until the unfortunate 
victim is a user of both. All methods of relieving high 
pressure by drugs are snares and delusions. 



THE CIRCULATION 231 

2. Alcohol. Alcohol lowers the blood-pressure. Just as 
tobacco produces a pale skin and drives the blood inside, 
thus raising the pressure, alcohol produces a red flush of 
the skin, showing that the blood is being drawn to the 
surface and the blood-pressure lowered. This is why one 
feels warm under the influence of alcohol, even when he 
is colder, or even freezing. 

Now we begin to understand the vicious circle that a 
vicious enemy has perpetrated on the human race. A 
large part of the people use tobacco. They are all living 
the strenuous life. Their dietetic and general living habits 
are those belonging to the strenuous order. They use large 
quantities of condiments, tea, and coffee. But this cannot 
be kept up indefinitely. Several times a day, a week, or a 
month, the individual reaches the " bursting stage." He 
feels wrought up to the highest pitch; keyed up to the last 
notch. He is intensified to the highest degree. He must 
in some way find a safety valve. 

There must be some way to relieve this constantly increas- 
ing pressure, and the patient finds temporary relief by tak- 
ing alcohol, which not only dilates the blood-vessels of the 
skin, relieving the blood-pressure, but also benumbs the 
higher sensibilities so that they are not susceptible to the 
fears, worries, anxieties, griefs, and disappointments that 
were previously harassing the mind. In this way, alcohol 
affords a welcome temporary relief to the distracted nerves 
of the restless victims of the high-pressure life. 

And this is certainly one explanation of the enormous 
increase in the consumption of alcohol by modern civilized 
races. But this method of relieving high tension is wholly 
false, for one of the after effects of alcohol is the harden- 
ing of the arteries; so that in the end alcohol only serves 
to raise the pressure and make matters worse. 

One of the most prominent authorities on insanity has 
said that alcohol is the cause of 50 per cent of our insanity; 
and insanity is increasing 300 per cent faster than the 
population, threatening the mental extinction of the race 
in less than four hundred years. 



232 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

This is why New York must have ten thousand saloons 
one for every three hundred and eighty people, while it 
has only one church for every four thousand. This is why 
we spend almost one hundred dollars a year for alcohol 
for every family of five. 

It is to obtain relief from the high-pressure tension that 
is produced by our modern civilization and erroneous die- 
tetic habits, that the American people spend every eight 
months, for alcohol, enough to pay the entire national debt. 

3. The bromides. Hand in hand with the enormous con- 
sumption of tea and coffee, there is found the steadily in- 
creasing use of the various quieting preparations and 
combinations of the bromides. 

Tea and coffee raise the blood-pressure the bromides 
and their compounds, as a general rule, by their sedative 
action, lower the blood-pressure; and so, just as alcohol and 
tobacco play their victims into each other's hands, the 
heavy and habitual users of tea and coffee find deceptive re- 
lief in the use of bromides. 

NATURAL PROCEDURES WHICH RAISE PRESSURE 

After years of the high-pressure life, it often develops 
that the heart succumbs. The blood pump fails in its long 
struggle to force the nourishing blood to the tissues through 
the contracted blood-vessels. When the heart gives out in 
the high-pressure battle, then we get what is termed "sec- 
ondary low pressure" 

Now it must be apparent that in such cases as these we 
must resort to the judicious use of agents which have a 
tendency to strengthen the heart and otherwise raise the 
blood-pressure. Fortunately, we have in Nature's store- 
house many agencies which may be effectually employed to 
combat low blood-pressure, without having to resort to the 
use of dangerous drugs. 

1. Active exercise (before the appearance of perspiration) 
directly raises the blood-pressure. 

2. Abdominal massage. Deep massage of the abdomen, 



THE CIRCULATION 233 

rolling a small cannon ball over the abdomen when lying 
down, or a bandage applied to the abdomen, each one tends 
to raise pressure. 

3. Ice bag to the heart (fifteen minutes at a time) by 
stimulating and invigorating that organ, raises the blood- 
pressure. 

4. Cold baths (moderately long), by contracting the blood- 
vessels of the skin, drive the blood to the internal organs, 
and thus raise the blood-pressure. 

5. Water-drinking and enemas. Copious water-drinking 
temporarily elevates pressure by adding to the blood volume 
for the time being. Large enemas act in the same way. 



CHAPTER XVI 

HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 

HEALTH is CONTAGIOUS. GERM-PROOF SKIN. GERMICIDAL BODY 
FLUIDS. ELIMINATION OF GERMS AND THEIR POISONS. CRIP- 
PLING OR DISABLING THE GERMS. DILUTING THE TOXINS, IN- 
CAPSULATING THE GERMS. NEUTRALIZING, MODIFYING, AND 
DESTROYING TOXINS. DESTROYING THE GERMS. WHAT IS IM- 
MUNITY? HOW TO INCREASE VITAL RESISTANCE. 

THE human body is the scene of a constant struggle 
between the physical life forces and ten thousand 
agents of disease and destruction which constantly sur- 
round the body and jeopardize the physical life. The body 
overcomes many of these untold agencies of disease and 
death by means of its vital resistance. 

The normal, healthy man is mightier than the microbe, 
but through physical transgression, and consequent degen- 
eration, we have come to the place where the germ is some- 
times greater than the man, and disease is the result of 
the body's defeat at the hands of these microscopic de- 
stroyers. 

HEALTH IS CONTAGIOUS 

Germs are not attracted to healthy people. It is only 
when a man is weak and sick that he offers inducements for 
microbes to prey upon him. Disease is contagious to a 
weakened organism only. A prominent infidel once said 
that if he had made this world, he would have made health 
catching and not disease. That is just what God did. 
Health abounds in the very air we breathe and in the 
movement of every muscle and fibre of the physical man, 
while disease is acquired only by persistent transgression, 
by constantly lowering the vital resistance. 

234 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 235 

Germ-proof skin. The body is surrounded by a germ- 
proof covering the skin. When the skin is healthy, dis- 
ease germs are unable to pass through it. Likewise, the 
eighty square feet of mucous membrane lining the digestive 
tract is also germ-proof when normal and healthy. So it 
appears that from within and without, Nature has erected an 
efficient barricade against the entry of disease germs. 

Germicidal body -fluids. Likewise, all the fluids and secre- 
tions of the body are more or less germicidal. The saliva, 
being alkaline, discourages the growth of germs requiring an 
acid medium. It also contains certain salts which kill germs. 
The normal gastric juice of a healthy stomach is a sure 
germ-killer. In the early part of digestion, lactic acid is 
present, and there soon appears the powerful hydrochloric 
acid, which is a most efficient germicide. 

The bile and intestinal juices destroy many germs. The 
colon bacillus and some others, will grow in the presence of 
these alkaline fluids, and are constantly found in the intesti- 
nal tract. The presence of acids or oxygen prevents their 
growth. 

The living, healthy tissues of the body are all more or less 
germicidal; that is, they are endowed \vith certain protective 
properties against germs and disease. This is true of many 
of the other special secretions, like those found in the eye 
and elsewhere in the body, when they are normal. The so- 
called ductless glands such as the thyroid, the suprarenal 
gland, etc., all secrete protective fluids which assist the body 
in its battle against disease. 

The blood and lymph, the two great circulating fluids of the 
body, are powerfully germicidal. In normal conditions of 
health, and special conditions of disease there may be found 
various substances in the blood which destroy germs. 

It would seem that an all-wise Creator, in designing the 
body, had made provision for every imaginable emergency. 
It certainly is a privilege, as well as a duty, to study these 
divinely ordained means of life-defence, in order that we 
may refrain from in the least impairing them, and also that 
we may know how to cooperate with Nature more intelli- 



236 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

gently and efficiently in her wonderful and incessant struggle 
to maintain life and health. 

We will now take up the systematic study of the means by 
which the physical body defends itself against disease. 

ELIMINATION OF GERMS AND THEIR POISONS 

When germs invade the human body, the organism at 
once is aroused to an earnest and united effort to expel the 
destroyers. This work of eliminating disease germs and 
their toxins is conducted by four different channels: 

1. The bowels.. .When the gastro-intestinal tract is in- 
fested by microbes, they are eliminated in large numbers by 
the bowels, and it is claimed that in some instances germs 
may even be thrown out of the blood into the intestine. 
This explains why it is necessary to disinfect thoroughly the 
bowel discharges of persons suffering from infectious dis- 
eases, especially such diseases as typhoid fever, dysentery, 
cholera, etc., so as to avoid the unnecessary spread of the 
disease. 

Germ poisons are likewise eliminated by the bowels, and 
this accounts for the presence of diarrhoea in so many dis- 
eases. Poisons are eliminated through the mucous mem- 
brane of the bowels, which sets up a catarrhal process, just 
as is done by the mucous membrane of the nose when one 
has a bad cold. 

2. The kidneys. The kidneys likewise take part in the 
elimination of disease germs. In many diseases germs are 
found in the urine, as in typhoid fever, and the same care 
should be taken to disinfect the urine in this disease, as to 
disinfect the bowel discharge. Many toxins from disease 
germs are also eliminated through the urine after being ex- 
tracted from the blood by the kidneys. 

3. The skin. In conditions of some severe infections, dis- 
ease germs may be found in the skin, being eliminated by 
means of the sweat-glands, etc. This is true of some parts 
of the body in typhoid fever. For this and other reasons, 
great care should be taken to keep the skin clean and active. 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 237 

In all forms of disease, the skin should be kept healthy by 
maintaining a constant circulation of the blood by means of 
suitable bathing, etc. 

4. The lungs. While the germs themselves are probably 
not eliminated bodily by the lungs, large quantities of poison 
are thrown off from the body in disease, along with the 
normal poisons of respiration. 

CRIPPLING OR DISABLING THE GERMS 

Nature is wonderfully resourceful in her battles with the 
microbe. When she fails to eliminate these invaders suc- 
cessfully, she utilizes her marvellous means of crippling and 
disabling her foes. This work is accomplished in a number 
of ways, as follows: 

i. Agglutination. There is present in the blood a certain 
substance called agglutinin (a sort of germ-poison or chloro- 
form), which is able to handicap the germs in their work, 
and thus facilitates their capture and destruction. Under 
the influence of the agglutinins, the germs are partially over- 
come, and caused to gather about in clusters or chains. (Fig. 
22.) They are rendered more or less helpless, and thus they 
are checked in their work of pillage and plunder. These 
agglutinins are found in the blood, and are supposed to be 
secreted by some of the cells of the body. 

This work of crippling the germs and gathering them to- 
gether in clusters, also makes it easier for the white blood 
cells to catch and eat them up. 

2. Attenuation. There are other substances in the blood, 
which are able to decrease the disease-producing powers of 
the germ ; that is, to lessen its virulence. This process of 
germ-crippling is called attenuation. It is probably due to 
the action of these attenuating substances that some mem- 
bers of the family may not have a disease quite so severely 
as the others, or may escape it altogether. 

3. By increasing the temperature. It has been found that 
when the temperature of the body is raised to about 102 F., 
the multiplication of the germs in the body is greatly inter- 



238 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

fered with. This higher temperature also encourages the 
production of anti-toxins by the body; and it is for these 
very reasons that moderate fever is a real aid in the strug- 
gle against infectious diseases, provided it is not allowed to 
rage too furiously. Temperature above 102 is highly de- 
structive to the tissues of the body, and at the same time 
gives no additional aid to the defensive processes. 

DILUTING THE TOXINS, 

It must be remembered that many of our most dreaded 
diseases are produced not so much by the presence of the 
germ itself in the body, but rather by means of certain 
poisons called toxins, which the germs secrete and which find 
their way into the blood, and thus circulate through the en- 
tire body. For instance, diphtheria germs are ordinarily 
found only in the throat, but the general symptoms of fever 
and disease outside of the throat are produced by its poisons, 
which find their way into the blood. Toxins are dealt with 
as follows: 

1. Inflammatory exudaie. It often occurs that germs pro- 
duce in some part of the body large quantities of poison, 
which cannot be immediately eliminated. In this event, an 
inflammatory process is started, and accompanying this is 
the inflammatory exudate a substance which is allowed to 
leak out from the blood through the vessel walls, and which, 
while it is germicidal, also serves to dilute these germ 
poisons. (Fig. 23). In this way the irritating and poison- 
ing effect of these toxins is greatly lessened, so that they 
do not so profoundly affect the living cells in their battle 
for life. 

2. Congestion of blood. Accompanying this inflammatory 
process there is an active congestion. That is, increased 
quantities of blood are caused to flow through the affected 
part, and thus thousands of fresh troops the white blood 
cells are brought to the scene of battle, to fight for the 
life of the threatened tissues. Also an increased amount of 
the germ-destroying serum is thus poured upon the scene of 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 239 

trouble. Congestion is good as long as it is active, and fresh 
blood is being constantly brought to the seat of difficulty; 
but when the condition becomes passive, and the blood stag- 
nant, it becomes then rather an aid to the disease germs in 
their deadly work if too long continued. 

[ENCAPSULATING THE GERMS 

When the germs become securely lodged and firmly es- 
tablished in the body, and all efforts to eliminate them are 
without avail, then it is that a wise and wonderful process 
of nature begins the work of making these germs veritable 
prisoners. The wonderful process of incapsulation, or 
bottling-up, begins, by which they are soon surrounded by 
structures so dense and impenetrable as effectually to cut 
off their escape to other parts of the body, as well as to pre- 
vent their offspring from spreading on tours of further mis- 
chief-making. This marvellous process of incapsulation is 
carried on by means of the combined influence of a number 
of agencies, as follows : 

1. Coagulation of fibrin. The circulating blood of man 
contains a liquid fibrinous material which, under the in- 
fluence of certain substances that may be produced in the 
blood, is caused to coagulate, just as the white of an egg 
hardens when dropped into boiling water. (Fig. 24.) This 
coagulation of the blood is first manifested by the formation 
of delicate threads, which serve as guiding strings, or we 
might say bridges, over which untold millions of white blood 
cells, the invincible army of the interior, find their way to 
the seat of the struggle, and line themselves up for battle 
royal against the hemmed-up enemy. 

2. The wall of leucocytes. The next step in this " bottling- 
up " process consists in the building of a strong wall about 
the germs. These little white-cell soldiers, after fighting 
with all their energy in the struggle with the germs a 
battle in which many are overcome and lose their lives 
line themselves up around the germs on all sides, in battle 
array. They are found to range themselves orderly, in sev- 



240 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

eral layers; the leucocytes of one order occupying the front 
ranks, while another rank of body-defenders is lined up im- 
mediately behind, and still another order of soldiers occupy 
the flank. These all press together and, by utilizing the 
dead bodies of their fallen comrades, build up a solid, com- 
pact, and usually impenetrable wall about the disease-breed- 
ing germs. (Fig. 25.) It often develops that the germs are 
too many in number to be thus destroyed, and so large pus 
cavities or abscesses may subsequently develop by the break- 
ing down in one place of this wall, which was so ingeniously 
built up by our valiant little soldiers. 

3. Digestion and absorption. The question will naturally 
be asked, " What will become of such a colony of bottled-up 
germs, should the white blood cells be successful in hem- 
ming them in and walling them up? This is the answer: 
These same little cell-soldiers which have compassed the de- 
struction of their enemies secrete from their bodies a fluid 
which contains a substance similar to pepsin, and able lit- 
erally to eat its way into the germs; it actually dissolves 
them, and later they are absorbed by the surrounding fluids 
and carried off, in identically the same way that a piece of 
meat or the white of an egg is dissolved by the pepsin of 
the gastric juice in the stomach, and afterwards is absorbed 
into the blood through the walls of the digestive tract. In 
this way, untold millions of disease germs may be finally 
disposed of, after having been overpowered in their struggle 
with the leucocytes. 

The digestive substances thrown out from the white cells 
which effect this work are called alexines. 

NEUTRALIZING, MODIFYING, AND DESTROYING TOXINS 

The many changes which are wrought upon germ secre- 
tions, to render them less harmful or to neutralize them 
altogether, are accomplished by three different processes: 

i. Neutralisation by anti-toxins. These substances are 
secreted by the body under the stimulus of the disease- 
poison, and they are able partially or completely to neu- 



FIG. 22. Ajglutinatitin 




InffammatorY 

Exudate. 





riori n . 



FIG.25.- Wall of Leucocytes 

(PUS CAVITY) 










FIG. 26.- White blood cells, capturing and eatmQ germs 



How ths body resists disease 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 

tralize the poison of the germs in the same way that an acid 
will chemically neutralize an alkali. There is a satisfying 
union which takes place between the two that results in the 
formation of a new substance, which is neutral and harmless 
to the system. 

It is on this principle that the anti-toxin of diphtheria 
operates. It neutralizes the toxin secreted by the diphtheria 
germs, and thus affords almost immediate relief. It often 
requires a number of days, sometimes a week, for the body 
to acquire the ability for making sufficient anti-toxin to neu- 
tralize the enormous quantities of poisons which are secreted 
in the cases of sudden infections. 

Not all is known concerning the action of these various 
anti-toxins, but it is supposed that specific bodies must be 
secreted with power to neutralize the specific poisons of the 
different diseases. 

2. Modification by the liver and other agencies. The body 
not only eliminates poison, dilutes it, neutralizes it, etc., but 
it possesses means whereby it may modify many poisons, and 
thus render them less destructive. This work is largely car- 
ried on by the liver, which has power actually to change 
harmful poisons into harmless substances, and also is en- 
dowed with the remarkable property of receiving into itself 
large quantities of poison which may be gathered up through 
the portal circulation from the digestive organs, and hold 
this poison within its own body, subsequently changing it 
into a harmless substance; or, if this is impossible, doling it 
out into the circulation in small quantities, day by day, en- 
abling the body to eliminate it, and thus escape poisoning 
from being overwhelmed at once by the whole amount. The 
thyroid gland also destroys poisons. 

3. Destruction by oxidation. One great good to result 
from fever is that by its elevation of temperature, the oxi- 
dation or burning up of large quantities of poison is effected. 
This oxidation is best promoted by a temperature between 
101 and 102. A higher temperature is no more efficacious, 
while it results in the unnecessary destruction of the tissues 
of the body. 

16 



242 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



DESTROYING THE GERMS 

When the body is unable to eliminate, cripple, or incap- 
sulate germs; or, in case of having successfully incapsulated 
them, it immediately begins the work of crippling them 
preliminary to their final destruction, which is accomplished 
in a number of ways: 

1. By germicidal substances. This germ-killing principle 
probably consists of two elements, one that is always found 
in normal blood, and one that is manufactured by the body 
to meet its specific invaders. These two elements unite and 
effectually compass the destruction of the microbes. 

2. By the alexines. These are the dissolving or digesting 
ferments which are thrown out from the bodies of the white 
blood cells, and which effect the dissolution or removal of 
their fallen enemies from the battle-field. 

3. The leucocytes, or white blood cells. These little wan- 
dering warriors have power to throw out from their bodies 
minute arms and legs, and thus to wrap themselves around 
the germ, literally swallowing it whole. (Fig. 26.) Such 
germs are digested within the bodies of the white cells. 

It has recently been discovered that the white blood cells 
are not always able to attack and' overpower germs. There 
is produced by the cells of the body a substance which is 
found circulating in the blood, called opsonin, which is able 
to chloroform, stupefy, or in some other way, weaken the 
germs of certain diseases, so as to make them a ready prey 
to the leucocytes. In some diseases the blood may be swarm- 
ing with white cells, but if the opsonin is not present to pre- 
pare their prey for them, the white cells are unable to 
attract and overpower their little enemies. Opsonin then 
becomes an important factor in the resistance of the body 
against disease. 

When a patient has pneumonia, opsonin is not found in the 
blood until about the time of the crisis, although the blood 
contains enormously increased numbers of white cells; but 
when the opsonin appears whatever it is it so weakens 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 243 

the pneumonia germs that they fall immediate victims to 
the attacks of the white cells, the crisis of the disease oc- 
curs, and the patient begins to recover. 

The little "first aid" cells manifest great fear of certain 
classes of germs, such as the microbes of many acute dis- 
eases; and that is why the disease rages so furiously for a 
number of days until the body develops more opsonin to 
weaken and cripple the microbes, so that they can be suc- 
cessfully attacked by the leucocytes. The opsonin seems to 
render the germs palatable to the leucocytes. It may also 
act by serving as a stimulating influence to the white cells, 
encouraging them to attack the germs, or, if the facts were 
fully known, it might appear that the opsonin exerts an in- 
fluence over both the germs and the blood cells. 

Macrophags. It is a singular and interesting fact that 
the macrophags, that is, the large white cells, with a large 
nucleus, seem to evince a preference for an animal diet. 
They are the cells which eat up the dead tissue and debris 
that is scattered about a wound. And when under the in- 
fluence of certain irritant poisons, absorbed from the intes- 
tine, they behave very strangely, especially if the body cells 
are weak, and there is evidence of senile decay. They have 
been observed to prey upon the body itself. (Fig. 27.) 
Under the spell of these poisons, these former defenders of 
the body turn insurgent, and devour brain cells, liver cells, 
and feed upon any part of the body that happens to be in a 
weakened state; showing great preference for the nerves, 
brain cells, and other of the more highly organized tissues. 
This affords a simple explanation of loss of memory and 
many other symptoms found in old age. 

In old age, these very cells depart from their former 
habits of defence and virtue, and spend their time in the 
vicious work of destroying their fellow body cells, thus pro- 
ducing atrophy, sclerosis, and even gray hairs; and cases are 
on record in which a person has turned gray in a single 
night, due to the fact that hordes of macrophags invaded 
the hairs from the roots, and carried away the pigment in 
the space of a few hours. 



'244 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Such conduct as this on the part of the macrophags, to" 
whatever cause it is due, might aptly be termed " The trea- 
son of the standing army." 

Microphags. The " microphags " are the smaller white 
blood cells; those which contain a somewhat divided 
nucleus, resembling a bundle of sausages. This permits 
them to go through a very small opening, and they are even 
able to penetrate bone. (Fig. 28.) They are good fighters, 
and there is the record of an experiment in which ten mil- 
lions of germs were in twenty minutes reduced to nine 
thousand, by a battalion of these valiant little soldiers. 

There are a number of germs that invade the human body, 
which are almost as large as, or even larger than, the white 
blood cells. How do these little fellows manage such large 
intruders? They do it in this way: A number of the white 
blood cells unite together literally fuse their bodies to- 
gether, and produce what might be termed a " giant " cell, 
and in this collective capacity they attack the invader. The 
germs seem to know the white cells as their enemies, and 
are found constantly to flee from their presence. 

4. Certain fixed cells. Certain cells of the body which are 
stationary, such as endothelial and epithelial cells, are also 
found to take on amoeboid movements in an emergency, and 
assist their brothers, the white cells, very materially in the 
work of devouring and destroying disease-breeding in- 
truders. 

5. The lymph glands. The lymph glands constitute a 
great system of breastworks a chain of protected forts 
which effectually back up the advance guard and firing line 
of the body's defensive army. When the white cells and the 
various agencies before enumerated are unable to cope with 
the invaders, and the enemy comes from without or comes in 
vast hordes, and is so powerful as to sweep aside the usual 
defences of health and life, then it is they must pass through 
this system of fortifications arranged throughout the body 
for its final defence against the invasion of disease. 

Within the lymph glands are found the sturdy lymph cells, 





FIG. 2.7.- 



White. blood Cel/s ( Micraphages) Eating of 
and Kidney Cells of the Body. 




FIG. 28- White. Blood Cells ( M i crap hades) Passing 
Vessel Wall in search af- Germ&- 





OMENTOM 



.- Lymph G/ands ne.ao.- Tns Qmenfum 



Haw the 



resists 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 245 

which, after methods similar to those of the white blood 
cells, are able to resist the advance of the enemy. And 
when the battle waxes hot, the lymph glands may enlarge, 
or, as we commonly speak of them, become inflamed and 
swollen, and thus the field of battle and the possibility for 
producing new soldiers is enormously increased. (Fig. 29.) 
So, while the swelling of a lymph gland, as is seen in 
scrofula and other conditions, is an evidence that the body 
is poisoned, that it is invaded by no small number of un- 
friendly germs, it also indicates that Nature is nobly rising 
to the occasion, to meet the enemy by increasing her means 
of defence and enlarging her fortifications. The sensible 
thing to do is to cooperate with this wonderful healing proc- 
ess within the body, and seek to help Nature in her earnest 
struggle against the germs. 

6. The omentum. The omentum is a great vascular apron 
which hangs down in the abdominal cavity, from the region 
of the stomach, and which has power, when germs enter 
the cavity and inflammation and infection are threatened, 
to extend itself even down into the pelvic cavity and there, 
by means of its great vascular supply, to bring more of the 
fighting blood cells to the scene of the battle, to bring more 
blood to nourish the struggling tissues, and to carry away 
the poison secreted by the germs. (Fig. 30.) During 
surgical operations, we often find the omentum adhering in 
some far-off corner of the abdominal cavity, which finding 
is a silent testimony of the vital struggle of former days. 

WHAT IS IMMUNITY? 

It is a well-known fact that some persons, although re- 
peatedly exposed to certain diseases, never contract them. 
It is equally well known that when a person has had yellow 
fever, smallpox, and certain other diseases, he is not likely 
ever again to suffer from these infections. Why is this? 
It is due to what doctors call immunity. What is immunity? 
Briefly stated, the theory of immunity is as follows : 

It is supposed that the cells of the body have certain abil- 



246 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

ities to combine with the poisons of disease. This ability of 
the cell to unite with poison might be represented to the 
mind by saying that each cell had a number of little arms. 
In conditions of health, these arms are probably devoted to 
the work of taking up food to nourish the cell; in disease 
they have power to reach out and take hold of poison. 
These arms are called receptors; and one of the theories of 
contagious diseases and other infections is that the poisons 
circulating in the blood are united to these little receptors of 
the cells. Under the influence of the disease, the cells are 
stimulated to make large numbers of extra receptors, and it 
is thought that receptors may be even thrown out from the 
cell and circulate in the blood as the anti-toxic bodies be- 
fore mentioned. 

In hereditary immunity, it is supposed that the individ- 
ual is born with these receptors for some particular dis- 
ease either absent, or else all satisfied previous to birth. In 
acquired immunity, these receptors of the cell are supposed 
to be all satisfied when an individual has the disease once 
say, for instance, yellow fever so that yellow fever poisons 
that may enter the blood in the future are not able to attach 
themselves to any of the body cells. And this would confer 
life immunity. In the case of some diseases, such as diph- 
theria and others, it would seem that the receptors do not 
remain long satisfied, and so after a short lapse of time, a 
few months or years, the individual can have the disease 
again. 

Immunity is sometimes spoken of as " natural " and " arti- 
ficial " natural immunity referring to the process of sat- 
urating the cells of the body by means of natural reaction to 
the disease when once contracted; whereas artificial im- 
munity refers to such instances as vaccination against small- 
pox, and diphtheria anti-toxin. In the latter case, the horse 
has diphtheria and develops large numbers of anti-toxin 
bodies, which are thrown out into the blood; and then this 
blood is found to be effective in destroying diphtheria 
poisons when introduced into the blood of a child suffering 
from diphtheria. In the other case, the cow has smallpox 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 

and develops a milder form of disease called cowpox; then 
the immunity developed by the cow against the disease (and 
many of the immune bodies are found circulating in the 
blood of the animal) is administered to man by means of 
vaccination. In this way the patient gets the benefit of the 
cow's immunity, and hence it is termed acquired immunity. 
It must not be forgotten that man, when perfectly healthy, 
would probably be immune from all disease. Hence, what 
we term immunity in this connection here, is merely an 
effort to explain the processes whereby the body, when once 
it has had a disease, will not, in some instances, ever again 
contract it, while in others it will be found immune for many 
years. It is not altogether known just how this immunity 
is conferred, but the foregoing is representative of the latest 
theories advanced by the scientific workers who are search- 
ing along these lines. 

HOW TO INCREASE VITAL RESISTANCE 

It must be apparent from a study of this chapter that it is 
highly important that man should know how to cooperate 
with Nature in her efforts to resist disease. This coopera- 
tion must be largely shaped and regulated by the imme- 
diate struggle in which the body may be engaged; but pre- 
ventive medication is by far the most valuable. An ounce 
of prevention is worth a ton of cure, when it comes to in- 
creasing vital resistance. We should treat our diseases be- 
fore we get them. By this we mean, develop such a store 
of vital resistance and acquire such a stock of vital energy 
as to make the physical constitution impregnable to the on- 
slaughts of the microbe. 

How can this be done ? The reader is referred back to the 
earlier chapters dealing with Breathing, Exercise, Sunlight, 
Diet, Bathing, etc., and to the chapter on Fresh Air to fol- 
low. All these seeds of health should be diligently sown in 
the daily practices of the individual. They are sure to grow 
and yield a bountiful harvest of strong vital resistance. 

Briefly summed up, vital resistance is secured by living a 
natural life, the simple life, the obedient life. Study dili- 



248 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

gently to find out God's laws of life and their application to 
you, and then faithfully and conscientiously live up to your 
light. 

Live the outdoor life as far as possible. Sleep out of 
doors, if you can't work out of doors. Take regular and 
systematic exercise. Keep your dietetic habits in harmony 
with nature. Don't overeat. Eat foods that will increase 
the alkalinity of the blood. To do this, it will be necessary 
to avoid carefully an excess of protein; that is, such sub- 
stances as flesh-foods, cheese, beans, etc. Study well the 
food you require to keep up your weight and strength; then 
eat with a clear conscience, giving no thought whatever to 
digestion. Worry over one's diet is the surest way to get 
dyspepsia. Eat your bread as the early disciples ate theirs 
" with gladness of heart," chewing it thoroughly, and trust- 
ing the wonderful powers of digestion to do the rest. 

See that the bowels are kept regular and active. Con- 
stipation is responsible for a large share of headaches, de- 
pressed feelings, and, we might say, failures in life. Don't 
allow poisons to accumulate in the intestinal tract, where 
they will be reabsorbed into the blood to irritate the nervous 
system and interfere with all the work and pleasures of life. 
The various means by which the bowels may be kept active 
and regular cannot be considered here, but one most val- 
uable item may be mentioned, and that is, promptness and 
regularity in attending to the calls of nature. 

Conscientiously avoid taking into the body anything an- 
tagonistic to health, or that will lower its resistance. Such 
substances as tea, coffee, the majority of poisonous drugs, 
opium, morphine, cocaine, tobacco, etc., including alcohol, 
all lower the vital resistance of the body and make it more 
susceptible to the attacks of disease. 

Anything which promotes the circulation of the blood and 
increases its alkalinity, is of high value in increasing the re- 
sistance against the invasion of disease germs. These con- 
ditions are best accomplished by means of the cold bath 
the swimming bath, plunge bath, cold tub bath, cold pour, 
cold shower bath, cold spray, the rubbing cold wet sheet 



HOW THE BODY RESISTS DISEASE 249 

pack, the cold hand bath, or cold mitten friction, which con- 
sists of rubbing one part of the body at a time with a rough 
mohair mitten, dipped in ice water, thoroughly drying that 
portion of the body before treating another. This is es- 
pecially adapted to bedridden patients, and those whose 
powers of reaction are somewhat enfeebled. Fresh fruit 
juice also increases the alkalinity of the blood. 

Keep the mind peaceful and the conscience clear. All 
phases of fear, as well as all the passionate emotions in 
which fear is a factor, such as anxiety, envy, jealousy, grief, 
worry, hatred, despondency, revenge, remorse, etc. all di- 
rectly and powerfully influence the physical health through 
their depressing effect, primarily upon the cerebro-spinal 
nervous system, and reflexly upon the sympathetic nervous 
system. 



CHAPTER XVII 

REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 

THE HUMAN BRAIN. ANATOMY OF THE NERVES. SYMPATHETIC 
NERVES. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES. REFLEX 
ACTION. ENERGY GRANULES. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SYMPA- 
THETIC NERVES. THE SPECIAL SENSES. HOW WE THINK. 

THE VALUE OF SLEEP. THE VALUE OF RECREATION. SOUND 
SLEEP. INSOMNIA. BRAIN FOODS AND BRAIN POISONS. IN- 
STINCT. THE MISSION OF PAIN. HEREDITY AND PERSONALITY. 

r TPHE nervous system is the channel of communication 
I between man and his Maker. The brain is the citadel 
of will, reason, judgment, and choice; it is the sanctuary 
of the moral nature, the dwelling-place of conscience, and 
the abode of the spiritual emotions. (Fig. 31.) 

THE HUMAN BRAIN. 

The brain consists of three parts: the upper brain, the 
middle brain, and the lower brain. The brain substance 
consists of the cell-bodies of untold thousands of little nerve 
cells. These little brain cells or centres have numerous 
nerve fibres going to and coming out from them. 

The brain is richly supplied with blood-vessels, and con- 
tains many lymph channels. At the base of the brain, the 
blood-vessels form a perfect circle which allows of the free 
and even distribution of the blood, and the equalization of its 
pressure. 

The basal ganglia are certain small collections of nerve 
matter at the base of the brain, which have to do with the 
regulation of many special functions. No one knows the 
number of cells in the brain, but they have been estimated 
to run from three billion to one hundred billion. 

250 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 2$I 

ANATOMY OF THE NERVES. 

The nervous system is in reality a continuation or ex- 
tension of the brain. The spinal cord extends from the 
lower brain at the base of the skull down through the spinal 
canal, giving off nerve branches on either side, which later 
divide into anterior and posterior roots, and which eventually 
encircle the entire body, extending out to the arms and 
hands, and down the legs to the feet. The entire nervous 
system is composed of these individual nerve units called 
"neurons." (Fig. 31.) 

The neuron consists of a cell body with numerous 
branches, one of which is usually longer and larger than the 
others, and is the branch over which the nerve cell sends its 
outgoing impulses. The branches over which the incoming 
impulses pass, are usually smaller and more numerous. The 
ends of these branches form small tufts designed for making 
contact with the processes of other nerve cells. 

The nerve paths, therefore, are really not continuous. 
From no part of the body can nerve impressions pass over a 
continuous tract to the brain. They must pass over from 
one to three different nerves in reaching the brain centres. 

The nerves belonging to the sensory or voluntary nervous 
system are usually covered with a sheath, which serves as a 
sort of insulation, and may be compared with the rubber or 
gutta-percha insulation of electric wires. 

All up and down the spinal column, nerve branches cross 
back and forth from the various nerve tracts. The great 
majority of the nerve fibres cross over from one side to the 
other as they are leaving the spinal column and entering the 
brain. This explains why a blood clot on the right side of 
the brain produces paralysis on the left side of the body. 

Sympathetic nerves. While the nerves coming from the 
brain and spinal cord have to do with the body's sensations, 
movements, and voluntary acts, all the vital processes of the 
life, including breathing, the circulation of the blood, diges- 
tion, nutrition, elimination, etc., are entirely regulated by 
the sympathetic nervous system. This system is formed by 



252 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

a double chain of nerve masses, extending on either side of 
the spinal column from the base of the brain to near the end 
of the spine. Special collections of nerve matter are found 
in the chest and pelvis, while an enormously large mass is 
found in the abdomen, known as the solar plexus or " ab- 
dominal brain." (Fig- 32.) Similar nerve masses of the 
sympathetic system are also found in the walls of all the in- 
ternal organs. 

These sympathetic nerve chains on either side of the spine 
are connected by cross branches, while throughout the body 
the two nervous systems make numerous contact, often by 
means of certain special relay stations, otherwise known as 
" ganglia." 

PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES 

The various centres of feeling and voluntary action are 
found on the outside, or superficial portions of the brain. 
The centres of conscious thinking are located over to the 
front, while the centres controlling muscular action are lo- 
cated in the middle of the brain. The brain centres for the 
eye, ear, nose, etc., are toward the back and lower part. 

The nerves passing from the brain or going to it through 
the spinal column are either sensory or motor nerves. The 
sensory nerves carry impressions from the skin, the muscles, 
the special organs of sense, and from various other parts 
of the body to the brain centres; while the motor nerves 
carry impressions of instruction and movement, from the 
brain to the muscles and various other organs. 

The basal ganglia already mentioned serve as sort of 
middlemen, or as private secretaries to the brain centres. 
When certain physical acts such as walking, writing, etc., 
are frequently performed, these basal ganglia take upon 
themselves to carry on these habitual movements without 
worrying the brain. All that is necessary is to start the 
process by orders from the -higher centres. This accounts 
for the formation of physical habits, both good and bad, 
and also explains why it is so difficult to break oneself of a 
habit already formed. 




The Brain and Nervous Syste 








Types' of 
Nerves 



F! G. 3 1 . The Nervous Srstem and the Nerves. 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 253 

Reflex action. The nerves passing back and forth across 
the spinal column, connecting the various incoming and out- 
going nerve tracts, serve the purpose of creating a short 
cut for the passage of nerve impulses in the spinal column. 
For instance, if you touch a hot stove unawares, the im- 
pressions of burning and danger do not have to pass to the 
higher centres of the brain in order to secure the instan- 
taneous withdrawal of your hand. The sensation of pain in 
the finger is immediately flashed over the sensory nerve to 
the spinal cord, and here, by means of the cross-nervous- 
connection, reflex action takes place. That is, the nerves 
passing to the muscles controlling the hand are immediately 
excited, and at once despatch the necessary orders to the 
proper muscles to withdraw the hand from danger. This 
constitutes reflex action, and practically all the muscles of 
the body have their reflex centres in the spinal column. In 
this way, the eye can be closed without thinking, when 
danger threatens. It is also by this reflex action that we 
cough to remove mucus from the throat, sneeze to throw ir- 
ritating substances out of the nose, and vomit to empty the 
stomach when nauseated. 

Nerve impulses are carried back and forth, to and from the 
nerves, by currents of neuricity, a mysterious substance 
which in many ways resembles electricity, and which can be 
measured and studied in the same manner as electrical cur- 
rents. It probably is a form of electricity. 

Energy granules. When the healthy nerve is rested, as in 
the morning after a good night's sleep, the cell body, under 
the microscope, appears to be filled with large numbers of 
small, sand-like granules. These granules represent the 
energy accumulated during rest and sleep. As the nerve 
begins its day's work, and as the day wears on, these gran- 
ules gradually disappear, until at night, when the body is 
fatigued and the brain is sleepy, the nerve cells are found 
to be free, or almost free from these granules. All the 
energy has been used up. 

It would seem that the nerve cells during rest and sleep 
actually accumulate energy, and these sand-like granules 



254 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

might be fittingly compared to powder, the explosion of 
which generates a wave of nerve or electrical energy, which 
flashes over its branches, carrying the messages which the 
thinking part of the cell originates; for each little cell-body 
must be regarded as a small brain. The larger brain of the 
skull, and the great solar plexus of the abdomen are merely 
vast collections of untold millions of these tiny nerve cells 
or brain bodies. The collecting together of their long 
branches and their arrangement in bundles or cables, creates 
the spinal cord, containing almost a dozen separate bundles 
of nerves, part of which go up to the brain and part of 
which are coming down. 

PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES 

The sympathetic nervous system has its headquarters in 
the abdomen the " abdominal brain." The sympathetic 
nerves spread to every part of the body, especially to the so- 
called vital organs, which have to do with the maintenance 
and regulation of life. They control the heart, lungs, 
stomach, liver, kidneys, bowels, etc. 

It is apparent that man has two brains two nervous sys- 
tems. He has two sources from which come orders to reg- 
ulate and control the body; and it is well that this is so, 
for such an arrangement makes it impossible for human be- 
ings rashly to commit suicide by stopping the heart or ceas- 
ing to breathe. You can stop breathing for a few seconds, 
but as soon as enough CO 2 gas collects in the blood, the 
respiratory centres are excited, imperative orders to breathe 
are sent to the lungs, and you can no longer hold your breath. 
You may give orders to the heart to stop beating, but it will 
not obey. Seventy times a minute it receives the command 
of the sympathetic nerves located in its muscle, to beat, 
and in faithfulness it responds. Only within certain lim- 
its can you increase or decrease its beat, and then, as a 
rule, only by increasing or decreasing the necessity there- 
for. 

The further wisdom of this dual nervous system is shown 
by the fact that the mind and muscle of man wear out from 




Fl G. 32 .- The SrmpathEtic. Nervous System. 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 255 

the day's work, and sleep is absolutely necessary to muscu- 
lar recuperation as well as for mental rest, to enable the 
nerve cells to reassemble their disappearing energy granules. 
But while the man is asleep, the functions of heart and 
lungs, as well as the work of digestion and nutrition, must 
of necessity go on without interruption, and this is made 
possible by the fact that these organs of life and nutrition 
are under the control of the sympathetic nervous system, 
which never slumbers nor sleeps from the cradle to the 
grave. So a man may take his required rest and unconscious 
sleep, but all the while the ever-watchful sentinels of the 
sympathetic nerve centres carry on the vital functions of the 
body without interruption never the loss of a single heart 
beat or the lapse of one respiratory cycle. 

THE SPECIAL SENSES 

The special functions of the body are carried on and reg- 
ulated by means of special senses special nervous mechan- 
isms such as that of the eye, the ear, the tongue, the nose, 
the sense of touch, etc. 

i. Sight. The camera, by the action of sunlight on sil- 
ver salts, takes pictures in black, or shadow. Now, the 
construction of the eye is somewhat after the fashion of 
the camera, except that the pictures of the eye appear 
in white, and every color of the object observed is ac- 
tually reproduced. The pigment or paint for the coloring 
of objects on the retina of the eye is obtained from the liver, 
and comes from the bodies of the dead red blood corpuscles. 
As the form and color of objects seen through the eye 
change, the pictures painted upon the retina must also be 
changed. It requires time for the invisible artist con- 
stantly painting these pictures, to change the outlines, and 
this explains why the projecting spokes of the rapidly re- 
volving wheel present a solid appearance, and also why a 
bright object, when viewed for some time, can be seen for 
a moment after turning away from it. It takes time to ef- 
face the pictures upon the retina and produce others in their 
place. 



256 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

By means of the nerves passing from the retina of the 
eye to the sight centre of the brain, all pictures appearing in 
the eye are reproduced in the brain. Modern science has 
achieved the wonderful feat of communicating a photograph 
by electricity over a wire for hundreds of miles, but this 
wonderful accomplishment has existed in the normal eye 
and mind since the dawn of creation. Another mystery 
about sight is that the objects seen actually appear on the 
retina of the eye upside down, and yet, when transmitted to 
the sight centres of the brain, everything is suddenly and 
wonderfully reversed, and appears right side up. 

2. Hearing. The ear is a trumpet-like expansion to col- 
lect sound waves. The ear drum vibrates in unison with 
the sound waves. Immediately connected with the drum are 
found several little bones so arranged as to magnify the 
sound, somewhat after the fashion of the transmitting de- 
vices of the modern telephone. There is also a provision for 
decreasing sound when too loud. The most wonderful part 
of the medium of hearing is the organ of Corti, which re- 
produces the sound for the recognition of the hearing 
centres. This wonderful little organ resembles both the 
harp and the keyboard of a piano. It contains about twenty- 
five thousand separate strings. 

While we are asleep, the eyes of necessity are closed, but 
the ears are never closed. When we are sound asleep, the 
hearing is in function, but the hearing centres have been so 
trained that they will not respond to ordinary sounds that 
are heard during sleep. They are aroused only by the ex- 
traordinary or unusual. This fact probably explains the 
curious interweaving of certain sounds heard at night into 
the dreams. 

The physics connected with the science of light sound, 
etc., were fully discussed in the early chapters of this book 
and will not be touched upon in this connection. 

3. Smelling. The sense of smell, having its end organs in 
the nose, and having special centres in the brain, is one of 
the most remarkable of the special senses. It is highly 
developed in many of the lower animals (as the dog), 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 

but poorly developed in modern man. The nose seems to 
be able to recognize an almost unlimited number of odors; 
and while light waves, sound waves, substances tasted, etc., 
have been carefully classified, strange to say, no one has 
ever been able to classify odors. We usually describe what 
we smell by comparing it with something else. If the sense 
of smell were normal and the individual healthy, this special 
sense, in connection with the sense of taste, would prob- 
ably serve as a fairly reliable guide to the selection of 
proper and wholesome food, and the avoidance of poisons 
and other dangers. The sense of smell is greatly injured 
by the use of snuff, cigarettes, etc., as well as by constant 
living in polluted atmospheres, or by the inhalation of air 
containing poisonous and irritating gases. 

4. Taste. The sense of taste is connected with the mouth 
and tongue; more largely the latter. We really have but 
four tastes: bitter, sweet, sour, and salty. Apparently we 
enjoy other tastes, but in reality we smell many of the 
substances which we think we taste. The enjoyment con- 
nected with the sense of taste, therefore, is largely de- 
pendent upon the sense of smell. For instance, if you eat 
an onion, you apparently taste many flavors, but if you will 
hold your nose while eating the onion, or eat it when you 
are suffering from a very bad cold, you will find it is almost 
tasteless. 

The sense of taste, inasmuch as it indirectly regulates 
digestion and nutrition, proves to be one of the most im- 
portant of all the special senses. Its vital influence in con- 
nection with digestion and metabolism was fully set forth 
in the chapters on Digestion and Nutrition. 

5. The sense of touch. The sense of touch is located 
throughout the skin, and is commonly made to include the 
special senses of temperature, weight, location, etc. It 
depends on a vast network of nerves which end in the 
skin, and which are reflexly connected with the spinal cen- 
tres which control the muscles. This sense is also con- 
nected with certain higher centres of recognition in the 
brain. 



258 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

The function of the special senses connected with touch 
is to report constantly to the higher nerve centres the con- 
dition of the body with respect to temperature, danger, con- 
tact, station, etc. 

HOW WE THINK. 

The brain is the organ of thought just as the stomach is 
an organ of digestion. It handles thought just as the 
stomach handles food. The brain probably does not origi- 
nate thoughts any more than the stomach originates food. 
The stomach digests the food we put into it. The brain 
digests the sensations, impressions, perceptions, thoughts, 
etc., which are placed in it. Ideas are mysteriously hatched 
out in the brain. They appear sometimes to have come 
from without. We are almost startled with the suddenness 
with which we get a new idea. We sometimes describe such 
an experience by saying: "An idea has just come to me," 
or "A thought has struck me." 

While the origin of thought is enwrapped in more or 
less mystery, the process of thinking is perhaps better under- 
stood, although imperfectly. It will be remembered that 
the nerve cells contain numerous branches, and that while 
no two nerve cells are actually connected, they ?.re able to 
communicate freely with one another by means of these 
various branching feelers. For instance, you try to recall 
the name of a friend, and you cannot. You are sure you 
know it; you were about to speak it, but it went from you. 
In the meantime, the various branches of numerous nerves 
are in vibration, feeling out anxiously to get in touch with 
to complete the circuit, as it were with the memory 
cell which holds the name you are trying to recall. Directly 
the cell is found, contact is made; the circuit is completed; 
and, like a flash, the name of your friend arises in your 
consciousness and you are able to speak it. 

At night, when the energy granules are all used up in 
the nerve cell, and it is unable to continue the activity of its 
many processes, its little branches retract. The contact 
between the untold millions of cells in the brain is in this 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 259 

way more or less broken, so that it is very difficult to remain 
awake. The eyelids grow heavy, the centres of conscious- 
ness are dulled, the muscles relax, the head begins to nod, 
and you are all but asleep before you know it. 

THE VALUE OF SLEEP 

Periods of regular physical rest and sound sleep are 
essential to the health of mind and body. The average 
individual requires about eight hours' sleep. Some appear 
to do well on six or seven, and still others seem to require 
nine. The human body, if properly nourished and regularly 
rested, possesses the power of automatic repair. We are 
not, like the locomotive, compelled to go to the machine 
shop once a year for repairs, unless we have so treated our 
bodies that they have not been able, day by day, to repair 
the damage incident to the wear and tear of ordinary life. 
If rest by day and sleep by night have been insufficient, or 
if other causes affecting the nutrition have been in operation, 
it is likely that we shall be forced to go to the machine shop 
(the sanitarium or hospital) now and then, to give the body 
a chance to catch up and carry forward its work of repair. 

A universal indictment should be brought against the 
American people in that they eat too much and sleep too 
little. 

THE VALUE OF RECREATION 

Even regular sleep is seldom sufficient to enable the 
average man to keep in good physical health. The nervous 
system demands occasional periods of diversion and recre- 
ation. As a general rule, the health is best promoted by 
recreation which brings us close to nature. Go to the for- 
ests; visit the running streams; tramp over the fields; gather 
the wild flowers ; cultivate the soil. Many of the modern 
methods of amusement and recreation are anything but 
healthful, as they enforce the indoor life and frequently 
necessitate the breathing of impure air in crowded amuse- 
ment places, while the exciting scenes that are presented 



260 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

are in no way calculated to rest overwrought nerves and 
tired bodies. 

Suitable recreation certainly has a place in modern 
hygiene. It is exceedingly unwise to work either mind or 
body continually without rest and change. The ideal rest- 
ing posture, when thoroughly worn out, is that of reclining, 
while the best sleeping posture is to rest the body upon the 
right side, slightly inclined toward the face. This is not 
only the position of least embarrassment to the heart in its 
action, but is the position that also favors the stomach in 
emptying itself, provided food is still present in that organ 
at the time of retiring. 

The weekly Sabbath day should be made as nearly as 
possible one of real rest. Cease from mental and physical 
labor. Even with one day of rest in seven, the average 
American, in his extraordinary pursuit of riches, fame, and 
power, would be greatly benefited by a half holiday in the 
middle of the week. If mind and body are robbed of their 
natural weekly period of rest, it will be found that Nature 
is an unerring bookkeeper, and that sooner or later she will 
demand repayment of all rest denied her, which demand 
you will be compelled to meet with compound interest added. 

SOUND SLEEP. 

Natural sleep on the part of healthy man is perfectly 
sound; entirely free from dreams. That is, upon awaking 
in the morning, the individual does not remember having 
had dreams. It is highly probable that all of us dream 
more or less throughout the night, but it is dreaming of a 
natural order and not the sort that is remembered on awak- 
ing. 

The conditions requisite to good, sound sleep are as 
follows : 

1. Reasonably good health, with freedom from pain or 
other unpleasant sensations. 

2. Comparative quiet, but it is remarkable how soundly 
some city dwellers learn to sleep in spite of all sorts of 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 261 

noises and other disturbances. They seem to get used to 
these night sounds, and yet they probably do not enjoy the 
sound sleep of the country citizen. 

3. A peaceful mind. A tranquil state of mind during the 
day and just before retiring, greatly favors refreshing sleep. 
While a reasonable degree of mental weariness favors 
sleep, we should remember that worry is the greatest dis- 
turber of sleep known to modern civilization. Sleep is an 
antidote for work, but not for worry. The chronic worrier, 
even when sleeping eight or ten hours, awakens unrefreshed 
and fatigued in the morning. 

4. A clear conscience. Condemnation of conscience, 
mental uncertainty, and moral warfare affect the sleep of 
a large number of people. As a rule, such conditions of 
mind and morals affect all persons except those who have 
become habituated to sin, and whose consciences probably 
offer very little remonstrance to their ways of vice. 

5. A non-toxic blood-stream. Those whose blood is filled 
with the poisons of tobacco, alcohol, and other substances, 
are seldom good sleepers, unless under the influence of some 
drug. Even tea and coffee cause sleep to depart from 
many. 

6. Freedom from constipation or auto-intoxication. The 
poisons absorbed from the bowel render the blood irritating 
to brain and nerves, and are responsible for much sleepless- 
ness. 

7. Normal ^blood-pressure. Those suffering from high 
blood-pressure, which is frequently manifested by throb- 
bing of the head, ringing of the ears, restlessness, etc., often 
find it difficult to secure sound, refreshing sleep. A warm 
bath, or other means of lowering the blood-pressure, will 
often enable such sufferers to sleep well. The neutral bath 
is even better. 

8. Fresh air. Fresh air, better cold, is an excellent sleep- 
producer. 

9. Good digestion. An empty stomach undoubtedly favors 
sound sleep, especially on the part of some nervous dyspep- 



262 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

tics. While sleep does not interfere with digestion, digestion 
does interfere with sleep in the majority of people. Late 
suppers banish sleep in the case of many nervous people. 

10. Weariness without fatigue. Physical weariness (not 
fatigue) favors sleep. Great fatigue may be a cause of the 
most obstinate sleeplessness, while ordinary physical wear- 
iness, resulting from a reasonable amount of exercise, greatly 
favors sound sleep. 

INSOMNIA, 

People who do not sleep reasonably well are suffering 
from some physical disease, or else they are victims of some 
unnatural mental tension that requires to be looked into and 
immediately remedied. The victims of sleeplessness can 
make no greater mistake than to begin the use of sleep-pro- 
ducing drugs. While these powerful drugs, which relieve 
pain and produce sleep, are of great value in the hands of 
the wise physician during times of great suffering or grave 
disease, they are a snare and a delusion when administered 
by the patient himself in the treatment of ordinary insomnia. 

The rational treatment of insomnia consists in surround- 
ing oneself with those conditions which favor sound sleep; 
removing from one's experience all disturbing influences of 
a physical, mental, moral, or social nature; faithfully prac- 
tising the principles of hygienic eating and drinking; and 
persistently using the neutral bath and other forms of treat- 
ment which ordinarily relieve sleeplessness, as outlined in 
the chapter on Bathing. 

Some people sleep ordinarily well at night, but wake up in 
the morning tired; sometimes it seems as if they could 
scarcely get out of bed. Such individuals usually have a. 
bad taste in the mouth, a dull feeling at the back of the 
head, and their skin is usually tinged a dingy brown, espe- 
cially under the eyes. Such persons are suffering from 
chronic auto-intoxication, or else they are the victims of 
chronic nervous exhaustion, a condition sometimes called 
brain fag, or near nervous prostration. 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 263 

Those suffering either from nervous exhaustion or auto- 
intoxication, or both (for they frequently co-exist), will find 
relief from their distressing condition, not by swallowing 
bottle after bottle of blood-purifiers, but rather by the con- 
scientious, careful practice of the hygienic life. Proper diet, 
water-drinking, regular bathing, systematic exercises, cleans- 
ing of the bowel, and the relief of constipation, together with 
proper periods of rest and sleep, will enable Nature, 
if given a little time, thoroughly to recuperate her de- 
pleted powers and to replenish her exhausted energies. 
Such patients will not obtain relief by the most rigorous at- 
tention to a single line of treatment, such as diet or exercise 
or baths; it will require the combined influence of all the 
light and truth of modern hygienic living to uplift such suf- 
ferers and enable them to place their feet firmly upon the 
highway of health. 

BRAIN FOODS AND BRAIN POISONS 

Fish, apples, celery, and various other foods have some- 
how gained a reputation as being " brain foods " or " nerve 
foods." There is little or no foundation to these theories re- 
specting brain foods. All foods which make rich, red blood 
are brain foods, and are nourishing to the nervous system. 
The nerve tissues require phosphorus and certain other salts 
which are to be found in a variety of food substances, to- 
gether with the other elements required for the nourish- 
ment of brain and nerve. 

Nerves are among the first tissues in the body to suffer 
from the influence of poisoning. All the narcotics are 
poisonous to the nerves, including alcohol, morphine, cocaine, 
tobacco, tea, and coffee. The nerves are also sorely crippled 
by various poisons which are generated within the body, 
if they are allowed to accumulate in the blood-stream such 
poisons as result from chronic constipation, intestinal fer- 
mentation, putrefaction, etc. These are all poisonous to the 
nerves, and when the blood is saturated with them the brain 
and nervous system are affected, stupefied, and unable to do 
a normal amount of work. 



264 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



INSTINCT 

Man and animals possess both reason and instinct, the 
man possessing more reason, while in the animal, instinct 
predominates and reason is present in but small degree. 
There can be little doubt that animals reason. A careful 
study of the ant species alone is sufficient to convince the 
most sceptical that these creatures possess some sort of 
reasoning power. They conduct raiding expeditions under 
the direction of leaders; they build their houses with 
provision for raising fungi for winter nourishment; they 
capture weaker tribes and enslave them, and after the 
fashion of luxurious human beings, they live in idleness 
while their captured brothers toil for them; they are wise 
enough to feed and care for the ant-cow, from which they 
milk a substance resembling honey. Domestic animals will 
learn to open doors and unlatch gates by observing their 
masters perform these acts. Monkeys have been taught to 
pick cotton, and chimpanzees to bake bread. It must be 
admitted that recent experiments go a great way toward 
proving that animals perform many of their wonderful feats 
from " habit " training and not from reasoning. 

Man has had his instincts blunted. He must, in his pres- 
ent state, be guided largely by reason, in all physical habits 
and in matters pertaining to health and disease; neverthe- 
less, many of our instincts are still inherent, such as thirst, 
hunger, sleep, etc. The sagacity and acumen which char- 
acterize the homing pigeon, the shepherd dog, the blood- 
hound, and various other animals, is largely wanting in the 
human species. 

After all, the radical difference between the mind of man 
and that of the animal may be summed up by saying that 
man is a moral creature. Animals never pray; neither do 
they worship. It is instinctive with men to worship a God 
and to pray. The most ignorant and barbarous of people 
have some form of religion. 



REST AND SLEEP, OR THE RENEWED LIFE 26$ 



THE MISSION OF PAIN 

Pain is the expression of the displeasure of the nervous 
system. We have spoken of it elsewhere as " the physical 
conscience," whose design is to warn us of imminent danger 
or impending doom. Pain is not sent as a punishment. It 
comes as a natural consequence of irritation or poisoning of 
the nerves and brain. Pain should be looked upon as a 
warning signal, designed to lead us away from the paths of 
disease and danger. Its voice should be heeded. It is not 
enough to resort to some pain-killer or powerful nerve poison 
which serves quickly to silence the friendly voice of pain, 
but in no wise works to remove its cause. It is true that 
pain must be relieved when it is of great severity or long 
continued, but there are many simple measures, such as the 
application of heat, pressure, etc., which are often perfectly 
successful in the relief of pain, and which will enable us 
to avoid the unpleasant and disastrous results that attend 
the use of the pain-relieving drugs, such as cocaine and 
morphine. 

HEREDITY AND PERSONALITY . 

The nervous system is greatly concerned with the main- 
tenance of personality. The material body is constantly 
changing. The average man eats his own weight of solid 
food every month. Some parts of the body are changing 
every few hours, others are changing every week or every 
month, but the nervous system undergoes the least change; 
and this is why nerves are so slow of regeneration when 
they have been injured by accidents, paralysis, or surgical 
operations. Other tissues will repair themselves in a few 
days, but injured nerves often consume years in their 
recovery. 

The stability and permanency of the nervous system con- 
tribute much to establish the personality of its owner. 
Matter may change, but the same mind continues to direct 
the new matter along the same old lines. 



266 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Heredity, that mysterious influence by which the person- 
ality and traits of the parents are handed down to the 
children, is no doubt effected in a measure through the 
means of the nervous system. Children sometimes partake 
more largely of the character of one parent, or may equally 
resemble both parents, or may even take after a remote 
ancestor, oftentimes skipping one generation. 

It is a mistaken notion to believe that disease is inherited. 
Outside of that loathsome disease, syphilis, no disease is 
transmitted from parent to child. Children do not inherit 
tuberculosis or any other disease, with the exception above 
noted. Children do inherit the constitutional weaknesses 
and the disease-tendencies of their parents. Although the 
child does not inherit tuberculosis from his parents, he may 
inherit both weak lungs and a low vital resistance, and there- 
fore be predisposed to contract tuberculosis when he is ex- 
posed to it, as he surely will be soon after birth. 

By proper attention to the laws of hygiene, the assiduous 
cultivation of health, the conscientious living up to the laws 
of one's being, the majority of people who have inherited 
constitutional weaknesses and tendencies to certain diseases, 
can entirely rise above their physical surroundings and de- 
velop a constitution far superior to that of their parents 
they can hope finally to be free from well-nigh every hered- 
itary taint and weakness. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 

THE ATMOSPHERE. THE BAROMETER. COMPOSITION OF AIR. 
MOUNTAIN SICKNESS. HUMIDITY. HOUSE VENTILATION. 
STOVE VENTILATION. AlR CHANGE. THE CHIMNEY. AlR 
FLUSHING. HOUSE TEMPERATURE. INLETS AND OUTLETS. 
POISONOUS GASES. HEALTH AND THE ATMOSPHERE. OXYGEN 
THE VITAL FUEL. BEDROOM CLIMATE. INDUSTRIAL VENTILA- 
TION. SCHOOL VENTILATION. VENTILATION OF PUBLIC BUILD- 
INGS. 

MAN lives at the bottom of a vast ocean of air. This 
atmospheric sea is held close to the surface of the 
earth by the force of gravity. 

THE ATMOSPHERE 

This layer of air probably extends upward from one hun- 
dred to two hundred miles. The density decreases as we 
ascend. The pressure of this ocean of air upon the body is 
borne without inconvenience, because it is equal in all di- 
rections. 

The barometer. Air pressure is measured by an instru- 
ment called the barometer, a glass tube thirty-six inches 
long, sealed at the upper end, bent at the lower end so as to 
present a long arm about thirty inches, which is filled 
with mercury. This liquid metal descends into the short 
arm until the longer column of mercury stands about thirty 
inches high (760 millimetres at sea level) ; therefore the 
weight of this column of mercury thirty inches high must 
be equal to the weight of a column of air of the same 
diameter as high as the atmosphere is deep. The weight 
of the thirty-inch column of mercury one inch square 

267 



268 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

is fifteen pounds. Therefore, atmospheric pressure at the 
sea level is fifteen pounds to the square inch. 

The heavier the air, the higher will the long arm of the 
mercury rise, and vice versa. For if the air presses down 
on the short arm of the mercury, the liquid metal must rise 
just so much in the long arm. 

In foggy weather the barometer is low, because at such 
times the atmosphere is lighter and therefore does not force 
the mercury up. Notwithstanding the dense appearance of 
the atmosphere on misty mornings, it must be remembered 
that fog, being watery vapor, is much lighter than the 
atmosphere, and this explains the low barometer just before 
an approaching storm, when there is much moisture in the 
air. 

Hygrometers are instruments for measuring the amount 
of moisture in the air. 

Ballons rise in the air because they contain either heated 
atmosphere or other gases lighter than air. Air may be 
compressed by means of the condensing-pump, or it may be 
taken out of any cavity by the air-pump, producing a 
vacuum more or less complete. 

Composition of air. .While air is invisible, it neverthe- 
less has substance. One cubic foot weighs 564 grains. 
Analysis of pure air gives the following: 

Nitrogen 78.35 parts. 

Oxygen 20.77 " 

Watery vapor 0.85 " 

Carbon dioxid (CO 2 ) 0.03 " 



loo.oo parts. 

The presence of CO 2 gas in expired air is well shown by 
exhaling through a tube into a glass of clear filtered lime 
water, which quickly becomes turbid, indicating the presence 
of carbonic acid gas. 

The atmosphere is not a chemical compound. It is prac- 
tically four-fifths nitrogen and one-fifth oxygen. These 
gases are simply mixed together, constituting what is known 



FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 269 

as a mechanical mixture. The purpose of the nitrogen 
seems to be that of a " filler " so far as animal respiration is 
concerned; that is, to dilute the oxygen down to about 
twenty per cent, the strength just suited to animal breathing. 

Ozone, that peculiar, refreshing substance which is smelled 
in the air after a thunderstorm, is nothing more or less 
than free oxygen itself atoms of oxygen which have been 
separated from one another by means of electrical dis- 
charges. It is very wholesome and highly destructive to all 
forms of germ life. 

Mountain sickness. In ascending mountains, as the air 
pressure decreases, dizziness may be observed as the resu't 
of blood accumulating in the skin, thereby decreasing the 
amount of blood in the brain. Hemorrhage from the nose 
results from the same decreased pressure in the nostril, al- 
lowing the thin capillaries to rupture. Roaring in the ears 
is due to decrease of atmospheric pressure in the external 
ear, causing a congestion of blood in the internal ear. 
The Eustachian tubes going from the pharynx to the 
internal ear, are intended to regulate air pressure in the ear 
at all times. The reader may have noticed in ascending or 
descending in elevators in extremely high buildings, just be- 
fore reaching the top or the bottom of a very quick trip, a 
sensation in the ears as if air were escaping, due to the in- 
flation or deflation of the Eustachian tube from change in 
atmospheric pressure. 

Mountain sickness, accompanied by vomiting, etc., is 
probably due to a deficiency of oxygen, owing to the light- 
ness of the atmosphere. 

Humidity. As affecting health and disease, the matter of 
humidity, the amount of moisture in the air, is of equal im- 
portance with the heat during a hot spell in the summer. 
More deaths take place at times when the humidity is 
greatest. 

Increase in the humidity also lessens the evaporation of 
water from the skin, thereby decreasing elimination. A 
moist, cold atmosphere is far more distressing than cold, 
dry air. Twenty degrees below zero in the far North 



270 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

where the air is dry, does not affect one as much as a tem- 
perature above zero in a lake region like Chicago, where the 
cold air contains more or less moisture. 

HOUSE VENTILATION 

The outdoor life insures the blessings of the vitalizing 
influence of sunlight and the stimulation of pure, refresh- 
ing air. The present warfare against impure foods is com- 
mendable, but it is equally important that we should begin 
a crusade against impure air, for practically all our public 
buildings and the majority of our modern mansions, as well 
as our humble cottages, are utterly devoid of any provision 
whatever for ventilation. The crying need of the hour is 
for a school of architecture competent to design our dwell- 
ings with a view to adequate and scientific ventilation of 
every room during every hour of the day and night. 

In the study of ventilation it must be remembered that 
cold, dry air is the heaviest, and that warm, moist air is the 
lightest. When the air in a room is warmed, it expands 
and therefore rises; colder and consequently heavier masses 
of air rush in to take its place. This illustrates the blowing 
of the winds over vast continents, and explains the crea- 
tion of unpleasant drafts in our efforts at proper ventilation. 

Stove ventilation. The ventilation of a house heated by 
an ordinary stove, occurs about as follows: The warm air 
ascends the chimney, its place being taken by cold air en- 
tering through doors and windows. The staircase, if there 
be one, also serves as a sort of ventilating shaft, sucking up 
from every available source, the warm air, causing the in- 
rush of the pure, cold air from every possible opening or 
crevice. It is this arrangement that causes an upward suc- 
tion of basement gases ground air. For this reason all 
basement floors should be covered with concrete or asphalt. 
The presence of human beings or the burning of lights in 
the room also heats the air and causes it to rise to the top 
of the room. 

Air change. The ideal system for winter ventilation is 



FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 271 

to warm the cold air before or as it is being taken into the 
room. Such a system is fairly exemplified in the modern 
hot air furnace, when it is provided with a liberal intake for 
outside air. 

The air of ordinary living rooms should be changed about 
four times per hour, while the air of crowded business and 
manufacturing establishments should be changed six or eight 
times an hour. 

Not less than three thousand cubic feet of air per hour 
must be provided for living rooms, offices, etc., for each per- 
son. For instance, a small room measuring ten feet every 
way and containing one thousand cubic feet of air, would be 
properly ventilated for one person if the air were changed 
every twenty minutes, three times an hour. If one or two 
gas burners were used in this room, the air would have to 
be changed not less than six times an hour. The art of 
ventilation is the process of making these air changes with- 
out producing unpleasant drafts. 

The lungs throw off three thousand gallons (one hundred 
barrels) of poison air a day, every pint of which will spoil 
a whole barrel of pure air for breathing purposes ; this, with 
the contamination of skin exhalations, makes it necessary 
to provide each person with about 750,000 barrels of fresh 
air every twenty-four hours. Expressed otherwise : one 
and one-fourth cubic inches of oxygen is required with each 
breath; about one cubic inch of carbon dioxid (CO 2 ) with 
other . poisonous gases is thrown out from the lungs with 
each breath; this pollutes about three cubic feet of air, and 
with twenty breaths a minute we have each person poison- 
ing about sixty cubic feet of air a minute or one cubic 
foot of air a second. This furnishes a practical basis for all 
systems of ventilation. 

The difficulty with so many systems of ventilation is that 
the intakes and outlets work only during one season of the 
year. That is, while they may work in the summer, the 
starting of the autumn fires entirely reverses the process, 
converting inlets into outlets, etc. 

The chimney. In ordinary dwellings, it is better to de- 



272 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

pend upon the chimney as the outlet. Even in the absence 
of a fire, the chimney would be a perfect ventilator, were it 
not for the fact that it is located usually on the outside of 
the house and therefore exposed to the chilling effects of 
cold winds. With the chimney in the centre of the dwell- 
ing, it would constitute the ideal exhaust channel for proper 
ventilation. 

Air Hushing. Laying aside all the details of inlets and 
outlets, etc., the important thing in the ventilation of the or- 
dinary dwelling is to have the doors and windows opened 
several times each day, to change the air completely; then 
with provision for proper heating and allowing a reasonable 
amount of air to come in about the doors and windows, you 
will have fairly good ventilation for the average house. 

HOUSE TEMPERATURE, 

It will be found best to keep the atmosphere of dwellings 
ranging from 66 to 70. If the temperature is allowed to 
go much above 70, insensible perspiration is produced upon 
the skin, the evaporation of which produces sensations of 
chilliness, and the room will not feel warm until the tem- 
perature is run up to 80 or above. Had the temperature 
been kept down to about 70, much of this unconscious sweat- 
ing and consequent skin-chilling would have been avoided, 
and the temperature of the room would have been in every 
way satisfactory. Recent experiments in France go to show 
that certain dangerous poisons are generated in the expired 
air when the room temperature is above 68 F. These 
deleterious substances are not developed in an atmosphere 
of 68 or below. 

The greatest error in connection with the modern hot air 
furnace is in placing its intake in some hallway inside of the 
house. While this saves fuel, it is a great cause of disease, 
and it would be far better to spend a little more money in- 
warming up fresh, pure air supplied to the furnace from an 
outdoor shaft. 

Smoky chimneys are due to one or a number of the fol- 
lowing causes: too many stoves on a small chimney; ob- 



FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 273 

struction from soot; too many joints in the stovepipe; the 
chimney outlet too close to other buildings; or lack of cold 
air inlets to the room, which would enable the stove to set 
up a draft in the chimney. 

INLETS AND OUTLETS. 

The plan most largely successful is to have the fresh air 
inlet near the top of the room and the foul air outlet near 
the bottom, both on the same side of the room. Under this 
arrangement, the ideal system would be either a stove or an 
open fireplace which would serve as the foul air outlet. (See 
Figs. 33-38.) 

The foul air outlet should always be located near the floor 
and connected with either the chimney or a ventilating shaft. 
There should be an opening 2X12 inches for each person to 
be supplied with air. This should be free opening in the 
outlets ; if grating is used, the opening must be almost twice 
as large. 

In case of furnace heat or other methods where the air is 
warmed before entering the room, the outlet must always be 
located at the bottom of the room, but if the air is admitted 
cold, the outlet may be placed a little above the floor say 
about four feet. 

POISONOUS GASES. 

While CO 2 is the chief impurity of foul air, it is not the 
most dangerous. There are other gases from the animal 
body which are really the poisonous substances, but they are 
hard to detect their quantity is small. The presence and 
amount of CO 2 serves as a reliable guide to the detection of 
these other poisonous gases. There are other impurities in 
the air such as coal gas, marsh gas, ammonia gas, together 
with various forms of dust and dirt, also animal and veg- 
etable organisms. 

The standard of purity requires that not more than four 
parts of CO 2 should be present in ten thousand parts of air. 

18 



274 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



HEALTH AND THE ATMOSPHERE 

The part of impure air in the causation of disease is so 
large that physicians have come to speak of a certain group 
of afflictions as " house diseases," including colds, catarrh, 
bronchitis, pleurisy, pneumonia, and consumption. Human 
beings and animals are strangers to these diseases until they 
come to live indoors in houses and barns. 

It is quite easy to understand how in past ages, before the 
advent of window glass, the chimney, and modern methods 
of house-heating, that it was well-nigh impossible to venti- 
late properly and at the same time heat the crude dwelling- 
places of our primitive ancestors. But with the present ad- 
vanced state of our knowledge concerning the importance of 
fresh air, it seems inexplicable that one funeral out of every 
four should represent a death from consumption or pneu- 
monia both house diseases. Pneumonia is now claiming 
more victims in Chicago than any other disease, and nasal 
catarrh is becoming, especially in our cities, an almost uni- 
versal malady. 

OXYGEN THE VITAL FUEL 

We need a constant supply of fresh air in order to secure 
oxygen. Oxygen is the fuel of the vital fires of life. It is 
to the body what the draft-air is to the stove. The fires of 
the body can no more burn without a liberal supply of oxy- 
gen than can the fires of the furnace without air. Food is 
useless to the body without oxygen to burn it to liberate 
the energy of the sunshine which was stored in the growing 
plant. 

When the windows are all closed down, when the storm 
windows are securely fastened for the winter, and every 
fresh air inlet securely stopped, it must be remembered that 
the effort to exclude fresh air also shuts out the oxygen, 
literally closing up the vital drafts of life to the human body. 



Breglhing Lint 



Fig.33 

Air Entering Roam at Bottom With Outlet at Top 
on Opposite 5 ids 



lr 


Bfedthinjj Line. 


_$ 

II 
D 

U. 

C 

K 
^0 






1 









Flg.34 

fresh Air Introduced Midway an Wall of Uns 
Side and Discharged 'at Top of Opposite 5/de 




Breathing Line. 



Fig.35 

Air Laming in an One 5 ids and Going Duon the 
Other Side 



Breathing Line. 



, 

^ v ,, ( i , ^ <, i 



U> 



n 



yi/> Coming- in an Dns Side and Going Out at the 
Bottom on the Opposite Side 



a 



'fry Line 



^^V-^ I 1 -* 



n 



Air admitted at the Bottom of Roam and Discharged 
at the Bottom onfippo5/te Side 



jLrii 



Correct Method: Ail* Carries in A/esr Tap and GOES 
Dut Near the Bottom on the Same 5/de 



FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 275 
BEDROOM CLIMATE 

Special attention should be paid to the ventilation of the 
bedroom, as the average individual spends one-third of his 
life in bed. If you are so unfortunately situated as to be 
unable to live and work out of doors, make up your mind 
that from now on you will fully enjoy the inestimable bless- 
ing of outdoor sleeping. Open the windows and freely enjoy 
the life-giving exhilaration of fresh air while you rest at 
night. Drafts are not in themselves dangerous; they are 
hurtful only to those who are very weak and debilitated, or 
when the person is overheated and the skin perspiring. 

The night air is just as pure, perhaps more pure than day 
air. The polluted atmosphere of the average bedroom is in 
one way or another responsible for many modern maladies. 
Who does not shudder in horror as he contemplates the ter- 
rible stale and refrigerated air of the damp and unventi- 
lated spare bedroom? A single night spent in such human 
death-traps has undoubtedly prepared the ' way for pneu- 
monia and other serious infections. 

The advent of the outdoor bedroom, the sleeping tent, 
sleeping porch, the window tent, etc., are all to be hailed with 
joy. They are tokens of a mighty awakening the arousal 
of the hygienic conscience of the American people to a sense 
of appreciation of that free and universal boon fresh air. 

INDUSTRIAL VENTILATION, 

This is a mechanical age, and our great manufacturing 
establishments teem with evidences of the ingenuity and 
fertility of the human brain in devising and producing labor- 
saving machinery. But while one man can now do the work 
of ten, by means of machinery acting with perfect precision 
and almost human intelligence, yet not infrequently the 
artisan of the twentieth century still breathes similarly pol- 
luted air and works in the same atrociously ventilated shop 
that his less fortunate brother of a century ago occupied. 



276 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

We are in need of a national uprising, a real awakening with 
reference to the importance of the adequate ventilation of 
factories, work-shops, and mercantile establishments. And 
not until this hygienic revival sweeps over the land, shall 
we see a material lessening in the death rate from pneumonia 
and tuberculosis the messengers of Death which now 
hover over our people, jeopardizing the life and health of all 
who labor indoors. 

SCHOOL VENTILATION. 

The indictment against foul air and improper ventilation 
must be drawn to cover even the schoolroom, where the men 
and women of the rising generation the boys and girls of 
to-day are compelled to sit for hours in seats which are 
frequently unsuited to their little forms, predisposing to 
curvature of the spine, flat chests, etc. Many schoolrooms 
are poorly or improperly lighted, producing eye-strain and 
other diseases of sight. 

The supreme curse of our modern education is to be found 
in the pernicious ventilation, or the absence of any ventila- 
tion whatever, in the majority of schoolrooms. Pale-faced, 
anaemic-skinned, gaunt, hollow-eyed pupils are the product, 
not merely of impoverished feeding at home or the heredi- 
tary legacy of the city slums, but also of the vitiated, foul, 
and polluted atmosphere of our modern schoolrooms. No 
other cause except that of sheer starvation could exert such 
a terribly stunting influence upon the rising generation as 
that of compelling them to breathe impure air daily during 
the regular periods of school life. This, coupled with in- 
sufficient ventilation of the bedroom during sleeping hours, 
is to be charged with much of the stunting, deteriorating 
effects observed in the modern school child of the great city, 
in place of wholly attributing these physical degenerations to 
underfeeding, overwork, overstudy, etc. 

VENTILATION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS 

And inasmuch as our warfare against foul air is in behalf 
of human health and happiness, we cannot dismiss the sub- 



FRESH AIR, OR THE OUTDOOR LIFE 277 

ject without calling attention to the almost universal ab- 
sence of any system whatever for ventilating churches, 
lecture halls, and other places of public assembly. We make 
it our custom, during the winter season, to advise our 
patients who are predisposed to bronchitis and penumonia, 
or those who may have tubercular tendencies, to stay away 
from churches, theatres, and other places of public congre- 
gation, because of the great risk they run in going to such 
places where the air is overheated and foul with the ex- 
halations of hundreds of people, many of whom are more or 
less affected with various pulmonary and other diseases. 

The public buildings of the future should be erected with 
a view to proper ventilation. The churches and assembly 
halls of the present should be overhauled and adequately 
ventilated, that it may be impossible to repeat the experience 
of the last century, when it was recorded that the air be- 
came so foul in the churches during midwinter revivals that 
at a late hour the candles would go out, because of the ex- 
haustion of oxygen the mourners and worshippers re- 
garding this as an evidence of God's displeasure with sin- 
ners; and indeed it was such an evidence, a convincing evi- 
dence of the folly of trying to feed the fires of soul and body 
in an atmosphere so vitiated and barren that a single candle 
could not maintain its flickering breath. 

Suppose we have an audience room 60X40X15 feet, af- 
fording a cubic capacity of thirty-six thousand feet. In such 
a room let us assemble an audience of moderate size say 
five hundred. Now recall that each person requires one 
cubic foot of fresh air each second. If all doors and win- 
dows are tightly closed, it will require but seventy-two sec- 
onds for five hundred people to poison all the air of this 
hall by breath pollution. An audience of a thousand will 
contaminate the air in one-half this time, or in little more 
than half a minute. What must be the condition of the air 
in such a room when the audience has remained inside one 
to two hours without proper ventilation? 



CHAPTER XIX 

THE CAUSE OF WORRY 

GENERAL CAUSES OF WORRY. DESIRE FOR HAPPINESS. TEMPERA- 
MENTAL WORRY. SCIENCE WORRY. WEATHER WORRY. TIMID- 
ITY WORRY. CHRONIC DISSATISFACTION. PERVERTED PROVERBS. 
MENTAL CAUSES OF WORRY. THE WORRY CIRCLE. WORK vs. 
RUSTt SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS. MENTAL IDLENESS. FRETTING. 
SPECIAL FEARS, KOODOOS, ETC. OBSESSION. UNREAL TROUBLES. 

WORRY DISEASES. MORAL AND SPIRITUAL CAUSES OF WORRY. 

RELIGIOUS UNCERTAINTY. MISGUIDED ZEAL. PHYSICAL 
CAUSES OF WORRY. MlND DISEASES. CHILDISH WORRIES. OLD 
AGE WORRY. THE WORRY HABIT. FAQS AND DELUSIONS. RE- 
SULTS OF WORRY. SOCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAUSES OF WORRY. 
HOUSEHOLD PROBLEMS. SOCIETY WORRY. LABOR-SAVING INVEN- 
TIONS. LABOR PROBLEMS. 

IN all ages the human race has suffered from the evil in- 
fluences of worry, grief, and fear; but it has fallen to 
the lot of our present-day civilization, with its intensity and 
strenuousness, to suffer in unusual degree, the direful conse- 
quences of mental strain and worry. 

Some one has defined worry as a " spasm of the atten- 
tion." It is a sort of one-sided mental action. It might be 
called " chronic fear." Any single fear or group of fears, 
long entertained in the mind, crystallize themselves into defi- 
nite worry, which continually harasses the soul and ever- 
lastingly preys upon the mind. 

GENERAL CAUSES OF WORRY 

The uncertainties and vicissitudes of life upon our planet 
are such as to make more or less worry inevitable. A cer- 
tain degree of mild worry or mental anxiety, it would seem, 
is ever attached to the living state, and only death can bring 

278 



THE CAUSE OF WORRY 279 

a permanent relief from the liability of fear and worry. The 
fact that man is the only animal that makes himself ridic- 
ulous by worrying, is due to the superiority of his mind over 
that of the lower animals. The animals are not given to 
looking backward and, as a rule, they do not look very far 
into the future. On the other hand, the mind of man sweeps 
back over the past and from its history, as well as from the 
perplexing incidents of the present, forms those conclusions 
which cause him to look with fear and foreboding into the 
future. Shakespeare has written : " Man is made with such 
large discourse, looking before and after." 

Desire for happiness. Whatever the immediate cause of 
worry, a solicitude for our general welfare and happiness 
or that of our loved ones, must be recognized as the real 
cause of all worry. We worry lest we may lose or fail to 
obtain those things which will make us or our friends happy. 
The desire for happiness, then, is the fundamental cause of 
worry, but it should ever be borne in mind that under no 
circumstances can worry ever contribute to our happiness; 
on the other hand, it never fails to detract from the enjoy- 
ment of life, and frequently stores up for the future that 
which will effectually destroy the very happiness for the 
love of which we are wont to worry. 

Temperamental worry. Certain causes of worry may be 
said to be temperamental, embracing the cases of those 
who worry because they are criticised either justly or un- 
justly, or because they are neglected or slighted by their 
friends; still others are depressed and dejected because they 
feel they are not appreciated by their associates; others fret 
and worry because they resent some supposed or real in- 
jury or injustice that has been done them. Worry of this 
kind frequently gives rise to outbursts of temper and mani- 
festations of actual anger, which are exceedingly injurious 
to the health of the nervous, digestive, and circulatory sys- 
tems. 

Science worry. Another class of mental sufferers might 
be classified as " scientific worriers." They are more or less 



280 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

bothered over some great problem of the universe for 
fear the sun will sometime burn out; while others fear a 
collision of our earth with some stray comet; still others 
are possessed with a constant fear of being struck by light- 
ning they are terror-stricken by loud thunder. 

Weather worry. Still others are found constantly worry- 
ing over the weather. They are never quite satisfied with 
what Nature provides the sun either shines too much or 
it rains too much. They are like the grumbling farmer 
whose fault-finding was proverbial for miles around. In the 
midst of one ideal summer so far as weather conditions 
were concerned a delegation of neighbors called on him 
and expressed the thought that he must be for once satisfied 
with the fine weather. The farmer replied : " Yes, the 
crops are good and the weather is fine, but I want to tell 
you it 's mighty hard on the land." Some men and women 
are literally human barometers and thermometers. As a 
result of a rheumatic tendency, coupled with constant thought 
of the weather, they are able to detect a storm almost be- 
fore the weather bureau is aware it has appeared on the 
horizon. Such persons are able to keep themselves on the 
border of nervous prostration by their constant worry over 
the weather and fear that all their plans will be upset by 
rain, storm, or drought. 

Timidity worry. This might be named as another gen- 
eral cause of mental uneasiness. Many earnest souls con- 
stantly fear that they will make some blunder; that they 
will fail at the task they have in hand, or that they will be 
unable to meet the demands which their position makes 
upon them. This unnatural timidity results in producing a 
mental state of discouragement, brooding, and despondency. 

Others worry over their responsibilities. They are fear- 
ful that they will fail to " make good " in the matter en- 
trusted to them. Such individuals are found to be over- 
anxious concerning details and matters for which they are 
not responsible and over which they exercise no control; 
still they constantly worry over such things to the point 
of losing both appetite and sleep. 



THE CAUSE OF WORRY 281 

Chronic dissatisfaction. Another cause of worry or state 
of mental dissatisfaction is found in the disposition of some 
people to find fault with everything and everybody. They 
have literally acquired the " kicking " habit. It seems im- 
possible for such persons to see good in anybody or to be 
satisfied with anything. 

It should be remembered that worry grows by what it 
feeds on. However small the matter over which we begin 
to worry, the cause of our worry will be found entirely 
sufficient to feed our mental uneasiness to the point where 
it gains possession of our minds, threatens to wreck our 
career, and constantly harasses the soul to the point where 
life is unbearable. 

Perverted proverbs. Many an old saying proverbial for 
its truthfulness when properly understood, has resulted in 
destroying the peace and happiness of those who have come 
to worry over its literal fulfilment. Take such a proverb as 
" Look before you leap." This old saying certainly con- 
tains good advice, but we have known of earnest men and 
women who remained stationary in their life plans for 
years, looking with such care and scrutiny over the present 
and future plans, that they have never taken advance steps. 
They have been too fearful to leap; they would not take a 
chance. Old age has crept upon them and their career was 
ruined by a too literal interpretation and over-regard for 
such a good proverb as " Look before you leap." 

Another proverb causing much worry is that old saying, 
" What is worth doing at all is worth doing well." While 
that proverb contains good advice for every young man 
and woman, it must be remembered that every day of our 
lives we have to perform a large number of unessential 
tasks tasks which are but temporary scaffolding, as it 
were, to the real character structure we are building. These 
minor things must be done with sufficient care, so as not to 
endanger the real structure we are erecting; nevertheless, 
it would be a waste of energy to try carefully to square, 
polish, and paint the scaffolding which stands but to-day 
and to-morrow is torn away. This is true of much of our 



282 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

work. Each day's effort must be wisely divided into the 
essential and the unessential, and it should be no occasion 
of worry that some trifling thing has had to be slighted or 
altogether neglected, as you review the events of the day 
in its closing hours. 

Still others have worried too much over such teaching as 
" Be sure you are right, then go ahead." Owing to their 
peculiar mental make-up, they could never be quite sure they 
were absolutely right, and so they never went ahead; and 
then they began to worry because they had not gone ahead. 

And so we see that the misunderstanding of even good 
and true teaching may lead to such a one-sided regard of 
truth and duty as to create a condition of mental uneasi- 
ness leading eventually to worry, with all its evil effects 
upon mind, soul, and body. 

MENTAL CAUSES OF WORRY. 

Let us now briefly consider certain mental states which 
directly lead to worry. The attention of the mind concen- 
trated upon any part of the body has a tendency to magnify 
the sensations of that part. Special, peculiar, or unusual 
sensations of the body, always have a tendency to engender 
more or less fear on the part of the mind, and it is a well- 
known fact of psychology that fear increases and focalizes 
the attention. 

The worry circle. Now, it will be remembered that we 
have stated as one of the definitions of worry that it is a 
" spasm of the attention " ; therefore, we have here the 
factors for the health-destroying, mind-ruining circle of 
worry, which has been aptly called the "vicious worry cir- 
cle" the attention magnifying the sensations, the sensa- 
tions increasing the fear or worry, and the fear further in- 
creasing the attention. It would thus appear that worry is 
seldom likely to cure itself by being allowed to run its 
course. This matter will be more fully considered under 
the treatment of worry. 

We would not dispute the fact that the soul-eyed, hollow- 
cheeked woman may be on the road to heaven, but we are 



THE CAUSE OF WORRY 283 

quite certain she has a stop-over ticket for some sanitarium 
or hospital, and that she will have to be treated for the re- 
sults of her constant worry, as well as for the indigestion 
and nervous prostration that are so surely produced by this 
unnatural and unhealthful mental state. 

Work vs. rust. We have got to strike an intelligent bal- 
ance between the dangers which threaten us on the one 
hand from too much work and the friction attendant 
thereon; and on the other hand, from too much rest and 
the rust of character which is sure to follow. We do not 
want either to worry out or rust out, but to lead the normal, 
rational life which promises deliverance from the threat- 
ened dangers of both. 

Self -consciousness. Among other mental causes of worry 
should be mentioned the exaggerated self-consciousness 
found especially in young people stage fright being an 
acute exhibition of this form of mental uneasiness and dis- 
comfort. Many persons find it almost impossible to get 
away from these insistent thoughts. They have a special- 
ized concentration of the attention, and it is certainly a 
demonstration of the fact that our thoughts are a real part 
of ourselves. 

We remember very well of hearing some one once say, " An 
imaginary worry may be unreal, but a worried imagination 
is very real " ; and this is really true. The basis of our worry 
may be entirely false and unreal, but the results of the 
worry upon the health of mind, soul, and body are in every 
sense real. 

Mental idleness. Those who would cease from worry 
must guard against mental inactivity, for if Satan finds mis- 
chief for idle hands, he is sure to find worry for idle minds. 
Worry obscures our outlook on life, both in this world and 
the next; it throttles the higher faculties of the mind; it 
beclouds our view of life and all its duties. 

Fretting. We have long heard the old proverb, " Noth- 
ing kills so sure as care/' and it is literally true. Fretting 
is found to do more harm to mind and body than fatigue. 



284 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Indecision, anxiety, hesitancy, doubt, and regret, unduly en- 
tertained, all serve to produce fear and worry. 

Special fears, koodoos, etc. Among the more grave men- 
tal causes of worry may be mentioned the various 
" phobias " or fears. Men and women, otherwise intelli- 
gent and sound of mind, are found to be horribly afraid of 
certain foods or the drinking water of a certain locality; 
still others fear numbers such as thirteen, twenty-three, etc. 
This form of fear commonly passes under the name of super- 
stition. Others fear disease. They live through a long life 
constantly brooding over the fear that they will die from 
cancer or some other maglignant disease. Others fear dis- 
aster; they are sure they will be killed in an earthquake or 
be swept off by a cyclone. Some fear great heights and will 
not go up in a high office building if they can possibly avoid 
it. Others fear animals, and during the summer season 
carefully avoid all dogs, for fear of being bitten by a mad 
dog, not knowing that mad dogs are just as plentiful during 
the winter as during so-called " dog-days." 

Obsession. Obsession is a sort of slavish worry which 
fastens itself in one way or another on most of us the 
boy who cannot pass a hitching-post without kicking it or 
jumping over it; the woman who carefully avoids all the 
cracks on a stone walk while passing down the street; the 
man who cannot put his hands in his pocket without count- 
ing the pieces of money ; the young lady who cannot sit in a 
public hall without counting the number of rings, roses, or 
stripes in the wall paper, etc. These conditions are all 
manifestations of the mental state called obsession. These 
habits show an unhealthy mental tendency toward fear and 
worry. 

Mental work never kills. Mental work plus worry is 
highly destructive to the health of brain and the life of the 
body ; while heavy mental work coupled with unusual worry, 
carried to the point of producing a state of sleeplessness, 
presents conditions that will more quickly ruin the health 
and break down the mind than any other possible combina- 
tion. 



THE CAUSE OF WORRY 285 

Unreal troubles. We recently saw a picture which greatly 
impressed us concerning the uselessness of worry. It was 
a picture of an old man, bent in form, sad of expression, 
suggestive of a life filled with perplexities and anxiety, and 
underneath the picture was this statement : " I am an old 
man and have had many troubles most of which never 
happened." 

A recent writer, in discussing the question of worry and 
the weakened condition of the mind which permits the 
" worry circle " to go on forever revolving, getting worse 
and worse, in describing this mental state, put it very 
aptly as follows: "You say you, cannot; your friends 
say you will not; the truth is you cannot will." There is 
need of a determined effort to strengthen the will, to con- 
trol the mind, and the methods for the accomplishment of 
this will be discussed in connection with the treatment of 
worry. 

Worry diseases. Certain nervous diseases are caused by 
worry. Most important among these is the condition known 
as " neurasthenia," or commonly called " nervous prostra- 
tion." Patients suffering from this condition are usually 
spoken of as all " run down." The truth is that they are 
patients who have been all " wound up," and as a result of 
high tension, coupled with mental anxiety, they have broken 
down collapsed. 

Hypochondria is another disease which owes its origin 
and perpetuation largely to worry. Hypochondria is simply 
a condition in which one worries about having other dis- 
eases. 

A third form of nervous complaint largely due to worry 
and anxiety is hysteria, and hysteria it should be remem- 
bered, is the impersonator of almost every known disease. 

MORAL AND SPIRITUAL CAUSES OF WORRY 

" Religion " may be either a cause of worry, or it may 
play the role of a cure. We are speaking of " religion " 
in the sense of some form of theological belief. Every now 
and then we hear of some one " going crazy over religion." 



"286 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

These individuals are usually hyper-conscientious, over- 
scrupulous, as a rule, with a nervous system already weak- 
ened, perhaps with a strain of insanity in the family, and 
perhaps having ancestors who were alcoholic, syphilitic, etc. 
The combination of such physical soil, taken together with 
unusual mental strain, excitement, etc., connected with re- 
ligious enthusiasm, is frequently able to overturn the mind 
suddenly or else to produce such an unnatural condition of 
anxiety and worry as gradually to undermine the mental 
vigor. Fanaticism is either one-sided moral reasoning or 
overwork of the spiritual faculties. 

Religious uncertainty.- Worry is frequently generated by 
false ideas and arbitrary views of the Creator. Doctrinal 
and interpretative errors of religious belief are responsible 
for much of the downcast, sad, and despondent experience 
of many professed Christians; as well as for the unsatis- 
factory and miserable experience of thousands who do not 
profess to be followers of Christ. Many earnest and hon- 
est souls have such wrestlings with the doubt of the for- 
giveness of their sins, or the fear of eternal damnation, 
that the mind is held in constant bondage to these insistent 
and oppressive thoughts, which finally result in the produc- 
tion of chronic worry. 

Misguided zeal. Still others possess themselves of such 
an extraordinary burden for the salvation of the souls of 
their fellow-men, that they in a measure assume the work 
of the world's Saviour, and, as a result, their brains are 
overburdened and their souls are crushed with a constant 
worry and anxiety for the welfare of their fellows. 

It is an important observation which the writer is not 
alone in making, that as the so-called old-fashioned religion 
declines, worry increases. As men and women depart from 
the simple faith and trust in the fundamental principles of 
the Christian religion, there is a growing tendency an in- 
creasing manifestation to worry. 

The writer sincerely believes that the religion of the soul 
should be as a bright light shining in a dark place our 



THE CAUSE OF WORRY 287 

guiding star instead of being perverted into a source of 
worry, grief, and despondency. 

PHYSICAL CAUSES OF WORRY t 

Many a human being is caused more or less worry 
throughout life by the hereditary legacies handed down to 
him by father and mother in the shape of physical weakness 
and bodily deformity. Still others, owing to a weakened 
nervous system or overstrain, have fallen into a condition 
of nervous irritability that renders them liable to anxiety 
and worry upon the least provocation. Such persons in 
fact all of us are greatly predisposed to worry by sleep- 
lessness. Sound sleep is a great preventive of the mental 
state that borders on worry. 

Many worry because of lingering diseases, unusual afflic- 
tions, or they grieve because of the sickness of their loved 
ones. 

Mind diseases. There is no doubt that nine-tenths of all 
ordinary diseases originate in the mind, and it is worry that 
produces the soil from which these infant diseases spring. 
The seeds of mental disease and physical affliction may fall 
upon us thick and fast, but if they fail to find the soil of 
worry and depression in which to grow, we are not likely 
to be seriously affected by their presence. It requires not 
only a germ to produce disease, but also a favorable soil in 
which it may grow. Worry produces that condition of mind 
and body favorable to the growth and development of all 
the vicious diseases which prey upon the mind and destroy 
the body. 

Childish worries. There is a group of worry causes 
which might be termed childhood worries. The worries of 
childhood are just as real as those of adult life. The little 
girl who is made to wear short dresses above her knees 
when she has outgrown them, or the little boy who is made 
to wear the clothes of an infant when he regards himself a 
young man their worries are all real; they grieve over 
these things. Likewise their griefs and sorrows resulting 



288 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

from ridicule, teasing, etc. these all serve to start the 
mind acting in unhealthy channels and to warp the nervous 
system in its development. 

Old age worry. Another form of worry which may be 
properly classified as among the physical causes, is the worry 
of "old age." As the years pass over us, the arteries 
harden, the memory fails, the skin becomes wrinkled and 
leathery. There is a tendency to worry on the part of the 
aged that is born both of the retrospective view of life and 
anticipation as to what the future holds in store. Especially 
is this true in the case of those who do not have sufficient 
means laid up properly to care for them to a good old age. 

The worry habit. But after all that can be said of the 
causes of worry, we cannot overlook the fact that some peo- 
ple have come to the place where they enjoy poor health. 
They would not be happy if they could not complain of 
headache, backache, stomach-ache, or something of the kind; 
their complaints have become chronic; they enjoy enlist- 
ing the sympathy of their fellows, having delight in de- 
scribing their sufferings and explaining their miseries ; 
they are constantly consulting the almanac and the patent 
medicine advertisements to find some new cause for phys- 
ical complaint, and they usually find what they are looking 
for. 

Fads and delusions. Newspaper articles and fads are 
liable to set a whole nation worrying over some article of 
diet. Some editorial novice, who cannot earn his living in 
a better way, sends out an article to the newspaper syndi- 
cate that some scientist has discovered that strawberries are 
poisonous, and ten thousand people immediately begin to 
have stomach trouble from eating strawberries, or begin to 
worry over their liability to disagree with them. It is 
proverbial that medical students are prone to have, or at 
least think they have, the diseases they are studying. 

Results of worry. Some of the physical results of chronic 
worry may be briefly summed up as follows: Insomnia, 
loss of weight, anaemia, rise in blood-pressure, hardening 



THE CAUSE OF WORRY 289 

of the arteries, premature old age and apoplexy, headaches, 
dyspepsia and constipation, pale skin and poor circulation, 
predisposition to the " catching " of contagious diseases and 
colds. 

SOCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAUSES OF WORRY 

Among the social causes of worry, family trouble, either 
real or false, probably comes first Divorces, desertions, and 
social dissipations result in a vast amount of human worry, 
sorrow, sickness, and death. 

Household problems. These are other causes of worry. 
The proper rearing of the boy, the successful training of 
the girl, the usual petty cares of the home to which all 
women are subject, together with the modern servant prob- 
lem all serve to create anxiety and worry, together with 
the useless and unnecessary toil connected with the family 
life. Housewives are constantly worried over the proper 
performance of little things that would in no way affect the 
family happiness if they were left undone. 

Society worry. Among social causes of worry are those 
of jealousy and distrust the social rivalry and ambition 
found among the " smart sets " of our metropolitan centres. 

Undue sympathy for friends may be set down as another 
cause of mental uneasiness. 

Social and family friction may cause worry to the point 
of producing such high blood-pressure as to lead its vic- 
tims to the use of alcohol, in an effort to secure relief from 
mental and nervous tension. Intemperance may be set 
down as both a cause and a result of worry. 

Labor-saving inventions. Every product of modern in- 
ventive genius which tends to decrease the physical work 
of the body is bound to increase the tendency toward men- 
tal worry. The less we use the body, the more likely we are 
to over-use (abuse) the mind by worrying. 

An inordinate worldly ambition may generate worry on 
the one hand, while there can be no denying the fact that 
poverty is a provoker of worry on the other hand. Finan- 
19 



290 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

cial difficulties and business reverses must be set down as 
among the industrial causes of an uneasy mind. 

Labor troubles. Industrial disputes and labor difficulties, 
the constant friction between combinations of money and 
those of muscle, produce conditions which are ever provo- 
cative of industrial uncertainty, and, therefore, result in 
generating mental anxiety and worry. 

Accidents incident to our modern industrial life produce 
worry both in those who fear them and those who are com- 
pelled to suffer because of them; in fact, the complexity of 
the demands of our modern social and industrial organiza- 
tion, is such as to constantly entoil us in the meshes of anx- 
iety and worry. 



CHAPTER XX 

THE CURE OF WORRY 

THE CURE OF WORRY. THE PRACTICE OF SELF-CONTROL, OR AUTO- 
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS. MENTAL THERAPEUTICS, OR SO-CALLED 
SUGGESTION. MORAL AND SPIRITUAL THERAPEUTICS. PHYSICAL 
THERAPEUTICS, OR THE CURE OF BODILY DISEASE. SOCIAL THERA- 
PEUTICS. FRAUDULENT MENTAL THERAPEUTICS, OR THE APPAR- 
ENT REMOVAL OF WORRY AND THE CURE OF DISEASE BY FRAUD AND 

DECEPTION. MORAL DECEPTION. MENTAL DRUGS. CHRISTIAN 
SCIENCE CURES. 

THE fundamental requirement for the treatment of worry 
is the restoration of legitimate confidence in yourself 
and faith in your friends and associates. There should also 
be developed simple and implicit trust in a Supreme Being. 
After the analysis of the causes of worry, as outlined in the 
previous chapter, it seems useless to add that those who 
would begin its treatment must first put forth every effort 
and make every provision for the removal of the causes, both 
remote and direct. We cannot by any process of treatment 
expect to be successful in our escape from worry so long as 
we permit its causes to remain in operation in our experience. 

I. THE PRACTICE OF SELF-CONTROL, OR AUTO-SUGGES- 
TIVE THERAPEUTICS 

In these days we hear a great deal about " suggestive 
therapeutics." Suggestions to a disobedient mind should 
come from the higher mental sources the divinely taught 
faculties of the mind itself. The secret of the self-treat- 
ment of worry is the cultivation and acquirement of self- 
control. Purpose to be a brave captain of your own mind. 
Summon to your aid all possible spiritual help, moral reso- 
lution, and mental decision. Dictate positive commands to 

291 



THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

the faculties which direct the physical sensations that in- 
fluence the bodily state. Learn to be a mental master of your 
moods. Do not permit yourself to drift along like a help- 
less, rudderless bark, tossed to and fro by every sensation of 
pain and distress. 

Sensation neglect. Systematically practice sensation neg- 
lect, if the causes of your worry are certain physical con- 
ditions. If your worries are of a mental or a family nature, 
make your peace with God and your fellow-men, and then 
practise a little common sense. The employment of a great 
and good motive will do a great deal to drive worry out of 
your experience. 

Fictitious worry. If you are suffering from "fictitious" 
worry, all that is necessary is to make a " declaration of 
emancipation " in your own behalf. Formally publish to 
your own soul that you are free from these delusions and 
destructive imaginations. Recognize that your worry is an 
unreal thing; that even if it were real, further worry would 
only be useless it would only make a bad matter worse. 
Resolve to cease worrying and follow up your resolution so 
carefully as really to do it. 

Now, we might just as well differentiate here between the 
individual who is trying to overcome worry and yet con- 
scientiously perform his duties to the world, and the com- 
mon ne'er-do-well, who neither worries nor thinks. A 
happy-go-lucky sort of individual is he, caring neither for 
his own progress nor for the progress and betterment of 
the world. He drifts with the stream of time, taking 
everything just as it comes. We do not make a plea for the 
development of such as he. We recognize the necessity for 
thought, deliberation, meditation for carefully weighing 
one's problems and difficulties. We believe in the consid- 
erate attention that belongs to every worthy problem. It 
is the " spasm of the attention " that chronic mental state 
resulting from long continued fret and distrust, doubt and 
despair, for which we are seeking relief. 

Sleep worry. For instance, take nervous individuals who 



THE CURE OF WORRY 293 

do not sleep well. All day long they fear they will not be 
able to sleep. As night approaches, they become more and 
more convinced they will not be able to sleep. They go to 
bed with the settled conviction that they will not go to sleep. 
Now, such individuals, in addition to baths and other proper 
physical treatment, will do well to go to bed with the idea 
uppermost in their minds that they will sleep and not care 
at all if they do not sleep. This will relieve the mental 
tension, partially remove the anxiety, effectually destroy the 
state of worry, and help a great deal in producing natural 
sleep. In your efforts to overcome worry and regain a 
natural mental equilibrium, suggest to yourself thoughts of 
health and peace at the retiring time just before you go to 
sleep and let these thoughts rest in the mind as a part of 
yourself while you sleep. This self-suggestion to the mind 
is of some value, as evidenced by the experience of many in- 
dividuals who can resolve, just before falling to sleep, to 
wake up at a certain time, and in the vast majority of in- 
stances they are able to wake up at just the time settled upon 
in their suggestion. 

Minimising difficulties. Practise the art of minimizing 
your difficulties. Do not look at your obstacles with' a mag- 
nifying glass. Make up your mind that in many instances 
you will be able to rise triumphant over apparent defeat 
and move right on in the even tenor of your way. Do not 
become greatly disturbed by the little ripples of life which 
pass through your experience from time to time. Practise 
taking your own good advice and all the suggestions you 
give to other people about not worrying. Don't forget to 
use them yourself. 

Have the moral courage to enforce your own anti-worry 
mandates. When you have commanded the mind to cease 
worrying, keep right after it and see that it does. In all 
these little things that harass one's soul, as some one has 
said, " Don't forget to remember the probability that you 
have not, as well as the possibility that you have, made a 
mistake." 



294 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 



II. MENTAL THERAPEUTICS, OR SO-CALLED SUGGESTION 

It must be remembered in dealing with our fellows who 
are victims of worrying over mental delusions and dis- 
eases, that so far as the mind is concerned, we are called 
upon to treat these conditions largely by mental and moral 
means not necessarily by material means although it 
will often be found that the body is in such a condition as 
the result of chronic worry, as to require treatment by nat- 
ural remedial agencies such as water, air, exercise, diet, etc. 

True and false suggestion. In our efforts to help the in- 
dividual over his worries and mental difficulties, we should 
recognize that there are true and false suggestions. True 
suggestions appeal to the reason, deal with facts, point out 
causes, and offer a cure which is rational and right. False 
suggestions (and the world is deluged with systems of men- 
tal healing based upon falsity and untruth) appeal to the 
imagination. They aim to give immediate relief although 
temporary; they aim to "heal the hurt of the daughter of 
my people slightly " ; they seek to produce immediate relief, 
no matter at what future expense and pain to the body, or 
eternal "damnation to the soul. All methods of sympathy, 
suggestion, and advice to mental sufferers should be based 
upon truth, free from falsity and deception. 

The key of mental healing. Suggestion, either true or 
false, is the key that unlocks many a medical mystery and 
explains the cure of mental diseases in all times and by a 
thousand different methods. The systems of the ancient 
medicine man and the modern bogus healer are all based on 
the destruction of fear and the generation of faith. Trust 
and confidence are the mental states prerequisite to the 
banishment of worry, and for the time being it matters not 
whether the suggestions responsible for the change in the 
mental state are true or false the physical effects are just 
about the same. Please bear in mind that we are not re- 
ferring to the after-effects upon mind and the subsequent 
results upon the soul these are wholly deleterious and dis- 
astrous, and will be dealt with later. 



THE CURE OF WORRY 295 

Positive thinking. Train your mind to think positive 
thoughts. For instance: Instead of saying to yourself all 
the time, " The noise of these children will drive me crazy," 
seek to calm your nerves, control your mind by thinking 
like this : " The innocent noise of these little ones will not 
drive me crazy; it won't hurt me at all." A patient once 
remarked to me that he had greatly helped himself in sleep- 
ing when, on retiring, the thought kept running through his 
mind, " I cannot sleep, I cannot sleep," by simply changing 
it around and saying, " I can sleep, I can sleep, I will sleep." 
If these suggestions are to be made to us, it is proper that 
we should make them ourselves. If they are to be made to 
the patient by a second party, let them be made in reason 
and while the patient is awake conscious. 

Hypnotism. This is not the place to consider hypnotism, 
but the writer desires, in this connection, to emphasize the 
uselessness of this practice in the permanent relief and help 
of these mental sufferers. Hypnotism is basically wrong, 
unphysiologic, and immoral. It is not used or countenanced 
by the author in his clinics, where large numbers of these 
mental sufferers are annually found among the patients who 
present themselves for treatment by physiologic thera- 
peutics. 

Self-interest. The mind must be taken off from self-in- 
terests if we would strengthen it and prepare it for deliv- 
erance from worry. There are three things essential to the 
ideal mental state: 

1. Do everything possible to lessen self-consciousness and 
direct thought of yourself. 

2. Make a positive effort to externalize your thoughts; 
that is, think of others and the great creation of God 
everything possible outside of yourself and your own in- 
terests. 

3. Widen your field of vision and broaden the sphere of 
your interests somewhat; take up new lines of study; take 
an interest in new people ; spread out the sphere of your men- 
tal action. 

Cultivate faith and trust. Occupy the mind with faith 



296 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

thoughts. Fear thought is the ancestor of worry, and fear 
thoughts can be successfully driven out of the mind only by 
faith thoughts. Cultivate cheerfulness, confidence, faith, and 
trust. Think health thoughts instead of disease thoughts. 
Take your mind off your diseases, your aches and pains. 
Have the mind dwell upon the wonderful provisions which 
Nature affords for regaining health. Think of the fresh 
air, pure water, good food, and engage in exercise of the 
body; come close to Nature herself and replace the thoughts 
of disease with a mental current bearing messages of health 
and strength. Exercise good emotions, even if you have to 
put them on for the time being, and you will joyfully dis- 
cover that ere long you will have actually become what you 
at one time had to pretend to be. 

Worry about worry. Of all things, do not make the mis- 
take of worrying now because you have worried in the 
past. Please do not be so shortsighted as to worry over 
your worries. Watch your habitual expression and culti- 
vate one that is cheerful and happy. It will react on the 
mind and help you in the battle against worry. 

The holiday spirit. It is a good thing to cultivate the abil- 
ity to forget some things as well as the ability to remember 
others. It is this temporary forgetfulness of the burden- 
some routine of life that gives one such happiness of mind 
and health of body during a holiday or the time spent on a 
vacation. At such times the mind is comparatively free 
from worry, and this undoubtedly contributes much to the 
sum of physical benefits received at such times. 

Sleep over it. It is a good plan to practise sleeping over 
things before you take them too seriously. Many difficulties 
will be found to adjust themselves to a more hopeful posi- 
tion if left alone over night, and then after all, even when 
things seem to be at their worst, when, as you say, " It never 
rains but it pours " even then you can console yourself 
with the old woman's philosophy that after all "maybe it 
ain't so." 



THE CURE OF WORRY 297 



III. MORAL AND SPIRITUAL THERAPEUTICS 

Some one has suggested that worry should be treated by 
dogma and not by drugs, and this is good advice so far as 
it goes. The author regards the Christian religion as the 
true system of mind treatment the real scientific psycho- 
therapy. Prayer is the most powerful and effectual 
worry-remover with which we are acquainted. That man 
or woman who has learned to pray with childlike sincerity 
literally talk to, and commune with, the Heavenly Father, 
is in possession of the great secret whereby he or she can 
cast all care upon God, for He careth for us. A clear con- 
science is a great step toward barricading the mind against 
the entrance of worry. A moral taint of whatever sort is 
bound to breed mental uneasiness and result in destroying 
perfect balance and poise of mind. 

The cheering-up business. We know of many who have 
cured themselves of chronic worry and despondency by en- 
listing in the " cheering-up business " going about syste- 
matically and persistently cheering other people up. A con- 
stant effort to help other people to cease worrying is sure to 
react favorably upon ourselves and prove of great assistance 
in our battle to banish fear-thought and worry. 

Spiritual nutrition. We believe many are victims of these 
mental worries because of the fact that they have failed prop- 
erly to maintain their spiritual nutrition. As the mind is 
intended to control the body, the spiritual faculties com- 
monly called the soul are intended to control, direct, and 
inspire the mind. The majority of people liberally feed 
their bodies, and many make generous provision for their 
mental nourishment; but the vast majority leave the soul to 
starve, paying very little attention to their spiritual nutri- 
tion; and, as a result, the spiritual nature is so weakened 
that it is unable to exercise that restraining influence over 
the mind which would enable it to surmount its difficulties 
and live in an atmosphere above despair and despondency. 



298 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

We believe that perfect trust in a Supreme Being is one 
of the essential steps in the successful treatment and effect- 
ual deliverance from the bondage of worry. If your re- 
ligion does not help you in these matters, if it does not 
change you, then it would be better to change your religion 
and get one that does. 

IV. PHYSICAL THERAPEUTICS, OR THE CURE OF BODILY 
DISEASE 

Let the servants of worry and the victims of grief turn 
their efforts toward the cultivation of health. Let the 
mind be occupied with health efforts in the place of anxiety 
and evil foreboding. Give attention to the cultivation of 
health as outlined in the previous chapters of this book, and 
little time will be left for sorrow and sadness. 

The delusion of drugs. We are aware that there are 
many drugs that afford temporary relief from worry, but 
it must be remembered that when worry is cast out by 
drugs, like a demon of old it is sure to return ere long, 
with seven devils more wicked than itself. We should be 
slow to employ drugs to help us over our mental harass- 
ments or physical sufferings. A settled state of mind will 
aid much in helping us to endure either suffering of mind or 
body. 

Keep the mind off the body. Careful observation has 
taught us that the less attention we pay to the function of 
any organ in the body, the more regular and healthful it be- 
comes in its action. This is why dyspeptics should never 
engage in the discussion of diet at meal time. If you want 
the stomach to do regular work and good work, keep your 
mind off of it when it has food in it. Do all your study 
of diet between meals and at the table never think of your 
stomach. This we have fully discussed in the chapter on 
Digestion. 

Cheerfulness and baths. Laughter seems to be of real 
value in the treatment of these melancholic subjects of 



THE CURE OF WORRY 299 

chronic fear. It seems to serve the purpose of relieving the 
" attention spasm " ; it gets the mind away from self for a 
moment. Cold baths and rubbing of the body are also of 
great value because of their influence upon the general 
nervous system, and more particularly because they flush the 
brain and increase the circulation of the blood about the 
worried nerve cells. Deep breathing exercises accomplish 
the same purpose. It is a crime for those who are victims 
of worry and despondency to sleep in close, stuffy bedrooms. 
They should come as near sleeping out of doors as possible. 

Digestion and constipation. In the battle against worry, 
every effort should be made to promote good digestion, and 
it is imperative that constipation be removed. Combat 
portal congestion or stagnation of blood in the liver, by 
making frequent pressure over the abdomen or wearing a 
moist abdominal bandage at night, covered with waterproof 
and with dry flannel on the outside. Engage in exercises 
for the strengthening of the abdominal muscles. Doctor 
Abrarns called attention years ago to the fact that the 
" blues " were due to congestion of blood in the abdominal 
vessels associated with the liver. 

An effort should be made, by proper bathing, to keep the 
blood circulating in the skin. Cultivate habitual deep 
breathing. Drink two quarts of water a day (not at meal 
time) and obtain suitable medical treatment and advice for 
any real disease you have. 

V. SOCIAL THERAPEUTICS 

The unfortunate victims of worry are much influenced 
by the society in which they move. We should make up our 
minds to get along the best we can with our friends and 
associates. Cultivate the art of living with yourself as you 
are and the world as it is. Train yourself to pay more 
attention to the value of what you are doing and how you 
are doing it, than to how you are feeling or what you have 
done in the past. Make every reasonable effort to live 
within your income. Avoid debts; they always generate 



300 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

worry. The mortgage is bound to harass the mind and re- 
flexly lower the vital resistance of the body. Do not borrow 
unless for business necessity or safe investment. 

Enjoy your work. The nation recently had a strenuous 
president, who explained his good health in the face of 
hard work by saying, " I like my job." Make up your mind 
that you will either like your present job or else imme- 
diately abandon it and get one you can or will like. Con- 
tentment with daily toil, satisfaction with one's regular em- 
ployment is a great aid in dispelling worry. 

Child-society. Cultivate the society of children and cheer- 
ful adults. There is many a chronic worrier about the home 
who would be cured by the advent or the adoption of a 
bright-faced baby. Their light-hearted freedom from care 
and worry is contagious, and the men and women who live 
with them find it easier to live the " faith life " in place of 
the "fear life." 

Games and other competitive exercises are all good in 
their place, but we have seen cases where they have gen- 
erated what someone has termed " mock worries " ; that 
is, there is constant worry over the fear of being beaten in 
the contest, which produces much annoyance and harmful 
anxiety. 

The Golden Rule. Do something for your neighbor now 
and then. Remember the Golden Rule. Do not allow your 
own artificial needs to accumulate unnecessarily and demand 
all your time. Reserve a little energy for Good Samaritan 
work, and you will finish the day's tasks refreshed and 
satisfied instead of hungry, thirsty, and dissatisfied. 

To sum up : all chronic worriers should see to it that they 
have the three following things: 

1. Active mental and physical employment; in other words 
" a good job." 

2. Regular and healthful recreation; in other words "a 
good fad." 

3. Suitable and regular spiritual nourishment; in other 
words " a good religion." 



THE CURE OF WORRY 301 

VI. FRAUDULENT MENTAL THERAPEUTICS, OR THE AP- 
PARENT REMOVAL OF WORRY AND THE CURE 
OF DISEASE BY FRAUD AND DECEPTION 

In the fore part of this chapter we have endeavored to out- 
line the procedures employed in the treatment of the many- 
phased and puzzling consequences of " fear thought " or 
worry. We are aware that the world is flooded with va- 
rious systems of religion Mental Healing, Magnetic Heal- 
ing, Hypnotism, Mesmerism, so-called Divine Healing, Sug- 
gestive Therapeutics, Christian Science, New Thought, etc., 
etc. We are equally free to confess that these various 
systems do apparently afford relief from many distressing 
mental states and even apparently cure some physical 
diseases. This is not the place for a full discussion of this 
matter: that we reserve for a future volume, but it will not 
be out of place in this connection briefly to sum up the 
reasons why these false systems of healing are able to se- 
cure such apparently wonderful results in many cases. 

Hoiv faith cures. The fundamental basic truth we have 
already touched, namely: Whatever removes fear and gen- 
erates faith yields certain physical results, regardless of 
whether the teaching itself is true or false. In this way 
the medicine man of the Hindoos, the Chinese, and the In- 
dians, together with modern pretenders of healing, all ac- 
complish their results by producing a state of faith in the 
mind of the sufferer in the place of fear. This mental 
attitude of faith is absolutely necessary to the success of all 
these systems. The circulation of the blood, the respiration, 
the digestion, the nutrition, the nervous system, the secre- 
tions of the body, and even the physical strength, are directly 
influenced by this change of mental state. 

And so it matters not so far as the immediate physical 
effects are concerned, whether the victim really believes in 
Mohammed, Confucius, Mrs. Eddy, John Alexander Dowie, 
or some new-fad religion, or a patent medicine, or any other 
system of teaching, method of treatment, or mode of living 
I say it matters not, provided the patient profoundly, sin- 



302 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

cerely, and wholly believes it; there are certain immediate 
effects upon the body which are favorable to health, which 
that patient will surely experience. This is a matter which 
our own experiments and observations have demonstrated 
to be true, and, did space permit, many data could be 
here collected to prove this statement. But, as previously 
stated, this matter will be reserved for a future volume. 

Moral deception mental drugs. Every new religion has 
been invented directly or indirectly to cure worry and its 
consequences; and every self-respecting individual should 
see to it that he preserves his own intellectual freedom and 
chastity in the effort to overcome worry. Do not resort 
to these deceptions and delusions. In reality they are 
mental drugs and will weaken and debilitate the mind just 
as literal poisons will deteriorate the body. Remember that 
while false faith will bring a physical reward, it is bound to 
bring moral disappointment and spiritual disaster. It should 
be remembered that hypnotism is only symptomatic treat- 
ment; it does not remove the cause, and all efforts of mind 
healing which involve mental surrender to any but a 
Supreme Being, are fundamentally wrong and cannot afford 
true and permanent relief. Fraudulent suggestion or men- 
tal deception is just the same, no matter by what name or 
" ism " it is called. 

Just as morphine immediately relieves physical pain, so 
all these cures are temporary, superficial, and ungenuine. 

The various so-called faith cures may be divided into 
eight classes (we are not discussing genuine miraculous 
acts) : 

1. Prayer and gesture cures. 

2. Relic and shrine cures. 

3. Mental deception cures. 

4. Faith, Christian Science, and allied cures. 

5. Spiritualism or medium cures. 

6. Mesmerism cures, where the healer touches the patient. 

7. Hypnotic trance cures, where the operator does not touch 

the patient. 

8. Direct faith healing by restoration of confidence and self- 

control. 



THE CURE OF WORRY 303 

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE CURES, 

We present the following summary as to the methods of 
operation whereby Christian Science and other false systems 
of mind-cure effect their apparently wonderful healings and 
create their large, enthusiastic following: 

1. They are a popular protest against modern materialism 
and rationalism. The people have grown weary of being fed 
on the husks of science. They would rather believe that we 
have no bodies in this world than go on believing what 
many scientists teach, that we have no soul or existence in 
the next world. They would rather have polluted and adul- 
terated spiritual water than be utterly denied the Water 
of Life, whereby they might quench the thirst of their souls. 
For fifty years men of science have hammered away at the 
religious bulwarks of the people. They have succeeded in 
breaking them down, and now, as a result, we are suffering 
from a spiritualistic and pantheistic flood. 

2. These systems of healing are an unconscious protest 
against wholesale drug medication and the unnatural treat- 
ment of disease. For one hundred years doctors have 
largely treated disease by drugs, giving doses in quantities 
that all medical men now recognize as injurious. Many 
diseases formerly treated wholly by drugs are now treated 
almost altogether without drugs. It is true the medical 
profession is coming more and more to restrict and regulate 
the use of drugs in the treatment of disease, but the public 
anticipated them instituted a revolt against the old method 
of treatment, and swung the therapeutic pendulum away to 
the other extreme thousands adopting the teachings of 
these cults which declare disease to be unreal and which 
recognize only mental treatment of physical ills. 

3. These systems, particularly Christian Science, are easy 
to believe. They involve neither self-sacrifice nor personal 
humiliation; they exalt erring man to the place of a God; 
they deny sin and make it easy for the man to respect him- 
self as a grand moral being, while giving free and easy 
rein to his natural inclinations and desires. 



304 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

4. Christian Science is new and therefore entertaining. 
It is mysterious and therefore fascinating, and this latter 
property it will undoubtedly ever retain. As its teachings 
are unquestionably unfathomable, it will always be surrounded 
by the aroma of mystery. 

5. It affords immediate deliverance from an accusing 
conscience. It recognizes neither sin nor wrongdoing. 
Transgression of mental, moral, or physical law is unknown 
in its teachings. All victims of worry over physical or 
moral disease are, therefore, immediately delivered from 
their worries the moment they believe its teaching. 

6. In its teaching and philosophy it is nothing more or 
less than Christianized pantheism; that is, if pantheism 
may be susceptible to being Christianized. It is simply an 
old Eastern philosophy clothed with the garb of so-called 
Christianity. 

7. It prospers because it eliminates 'worry. Although by 
false means, it does quite effectively eliminate worry, tem- 
porarily,- at least, and its devotees are therefore physically 
benefited by their deliverance for the time being from the 
thraldom of fear and grief. 

8. Its teaching is such as to abolish immediately all im- 
aginary diseases, and many of their physical consequences 
sooner or later disappear; and since a large percentage of 
diseases have their origin in the mental state, not an in- 
considerable number of people are helped in this way. 

9. It chloroforms reason and judgment. It is a system of 
blind belief, and while it gives certain favorable physical 
effects, it results in distorting the mind, crippling reason 
and judgment, and in many other ways working against 
the development and strengthening of the mental faculties. 

10. It represents the uplifting power of faith and strong 
resolution. It only goes to show the powerful influence of 
the mind over the body when thoroughly dedicated to a 
single idea, even though that idea be essentially false. 

11. It is a species of mental deception which the individ- 
ual can be taught to practise upon himself, and the very 



THE CURE OF WORRY 305 

deceptiveness of it constitutes both its charm and its com- 
pelling power over those who surrender to it. 

12. Last, but not least, many of these systems of healing, 
including Christian Science, have gone on in the world in 
spite of their error, because they do contain a grain of truth 
not generally recognized by either scientists or religionists 
and that is the influence of mind over matter. 



CHAPTER XXI 

HYGIENE AND SANITATION, OR THE PREVENTION 
OF DISEASE 

THE CAUSES OF DISEASE. THE PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF DISEASE. 
THE EXCITING CAUSES OF DISEASE. CONTAGIOUS DISEASES. 
HYGIENE OF THE ATMOSPHERE. THE DRINKING WATER. CON- 
TAMINATION OF THE SOIL. HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS. THE 
BEDROOM. INFECTED TOILET ARTICLES. PUBLIC DRINKING CUPS. 
PROMISCUOUS KISSING. DUST DANGERS. RAW FOODS. PUBLIC 
FUNERALS. PUBLIC LIBRARIES. RAILWAY SEWAGE. 

SANITATION is the science of preventing transmissible 
disease. Transmissible diseases are the so-called infec- 
tious and contagious maladies. If the concerted cooperation 
of the human race could be secured, it lies entirely within 
the power and possibility of man to drive all " germ diseases " 
from the face of the earth. If the individuals composing the 
race could be induced personally to practise obedience to the 
laws of life, it would be easily possible to eradicate nine- 
tenths of the so-called " functional diseases " ; that is, nerv- 
ous, digestive, and circulatory diseases, and this would leave 
the race free to contend largely with only the diseases and 
deformities due to heredity, accidents, and the gradual ap- 
proach of old age, which conditions, for the time being, we 
are powerless to eliminate wholly. 

THE CAUSES OF DISEASE 

The causes of diseases are classified as Predisposing and 
Exciting. 

I 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF DISEASE 

1. Heredity. 

2. Race. 

3. Climate. 

4. Habits of life. 

306 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 

II 
EXCITING CAUSES OF DISEASE 

1. Irritation or injury. 

2. Heat and cold. 

3. Altered atmospheric pressure. 

4. Insufficient or disease-laden air. 

5. Insufficient food, or starvation. 

6. Electrical discharges lightning. 

7. Poisons. 

(a) Mineral poisons. 

(b) Vegetable poisons. 

(c) Germ poisons. 

(d) Animal poisons. 

8. Germs, or vegetable parasites. 

9. Animal parasites. 

THE PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF DISEASE 

1. Heredity. Heredity probably has but little influence 
as an actual cause of disease. A child may be born with a 
weakened nervous system or some other physical deficiency, 
but outside of that dread disease, syphilis, no other known 
disease is directly transmissible by heredity from parent to 
offspring. Scientists are coming more and more to regard 
disease as the direct result of the acts of the individual after 
birth, or of the influences which surround the child, espe- 
cially during infancy and childhood, as well as the im- 
mediate physical practices of the individual with reference 
to eating, drinking, sleeping, working, etc. 

2. Race. Certain races, for varied -reasons, are predis- 
posed to certain diseases. The more recently a disease has 
made its appearance among a given race, the more fatal it 
appears to be. Thus, tuberculosis is very fatal to the Indian 
and the negro, while the Jews are relatively immune from 
this scourge, having been for a long time exposed to its in- 
fluence. 

3. Climate. Conditions of climate and altitude have some- 
thing to do with rendering whole races of people immune 
from, or subject to, certain diseases; but even the question 



308 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

of climate has but little influence upon the health of the 
human race as compared with the unhygienic practices and 
the unsanitary surroundings of people who ordinarily live 
in these so-called unhealthy climates. 

4. Habits of life. It is the long continued individual 
practices or habits of life that have much to do with causing 
the body to become either favorable or unfavorable soil for 
various diseases. Personal habits of living, as well as racial 
customs, play a very large part in predisposing the body to 
many and varied physical afflictions. 

THE EXCITING CAUSES OF DISEASE 

1. Irritation or injury. The body, being a collection of 
individual living cells, is subject to disease if a considerable 
number of these cells are injured so as either to destroy or 
to interfere with their life-function. For instance, long con- 
tinued pressure interferes with the circulation and directly 
leads to death of the cells. If the pressure is gradually 
applied, slow death or atrophy ensues; when it is quickly 
applied, we may have immediate death or gangrene. Other 
forms of mechanical irritation or pressure will produce in- 
flammation. Sharp instruments or sudden blows will pro- 
duce wounds. 

Another form of irritation to the body is produced by 
small particles of dust. Ordinary street dust, marble dust, 
coal dust, etc., find their way into the tissues of the lungs or 
into other sections of the body and there produce disease. 

Falls, crushing injuries, bone fractures, etc., as well as 
rupture of internal organs, bursting of blood-vessels, and 
other accidents met with by land and sea, are all grouped as 
causes of diseases under this head. 

2. Heat and cold. Excessive heat may produce disease 
and death by its influence upon the circulation of the blood, 
the nervous system, and by directly destroying the cells by 
means of coagulation. Extensive burns involving more 
than one-third of the body surface, are usually fatal. Fever 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 309 

becomes destructive of the body itself when allowed to rage 
furiously for a long time, at a high temperature. The heat 
of the sun, under certain unfavorable conditions, causes 
sunstroke. 

Exposure to extreme cold produces general results very 
similar to those effected by high heat. Exposure of the skin 
to liquified air, causes a local death of tissues, much re- 
sembling burns. Cold may produce in the tissues, condi- 
tions varying from chilblain to actual death of the part from 
freezing. Cold is also indirectly concerned in producing 
inflammations, ranging from the common household cold 
up to rheumatic and other physical conditions dependent 
upon change in temperature and climate. However, in the 
majority of cases, some immediate or exciting cause is con- 
cerned in these latter diseases. 

3. Atmospheric pressure. Increase of atmospheric pres- 
sure, as in the case of deep-sea diving, may produce many 
minor disturbances of the circulation, as well as severe 
forms of nervous disease; in the decrease of the atmospheric 
pressure, during the ascent of high mountains, there may be 
observed the ordinary mountain sickness, weakness, vomiting, 
ringing of the ears, etc., due, not only to lack of oxygen in 
the air, but also to decrease of external pressure upon the 
body. 

4. Insufficient or disease-laden air. Insufficient air pro- 
duces death by suffocation, while the disease-laden air of 
the modern city is responsible for the production of many 
and serious maladies. 

5. Starvation. Insufficient food or the inability of the 
body to digest and assimilate nourishment will result in 
ultimate death. 

6. Electrical discharges. Electrical discharges varying 
from those used in the medical treatment of disease to those 
of the lightning stroke, may be responsible for local and 
general death of tissue cells and other conditions of disease. 

7. Poisons. A poison is any substance which, when taken 



310 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

into the body in relatively small doses, either disturbs' the 
action of the living cells or destroys their life. This de- 
struction of life may be either sudden or gradual. 

Poisons may enter the body as solids, liquids, or gases. 
Their immediate effect is largely dependent upon the size of 
the dose. Some act quickly, producing immediate death; 
others act slowly, deranging the internal mechanism of the 
body and producing death only after long continued use. 

Poisons, when taken in small doses, are largely burned 
up in the liver. They are afterwards eliminated by the skin, 
kidneys, and bowels. 

(a) Mineral poisons embrace the various acids, alkalies, 
etc., including carbolic acid, the salts of silver, mercury, 
and copper. Many of these substances destroy the cell by 
abstracting water and producing coagulation. Arsenic, 
phosphorus, and lead are other common mineral poisons. 

(b) Vegetable poisons. There are a great many veg- 
etable poisons, some of which are commonly used as medi- 
cines, which are the direct cause of certain physical dis- 
eases. Many of these poisons act upon some special part of 
the body, deranging its functions and diseasing its structure, 
producing various states of physical degeneration. Tobacco, 
morphine, opium, belladonna, and hundreds of other com- 
monly used drugs, belong to this group. 

(c) Germ poisons. The toxins of the various germ 
diseases such as diphtheria, scarlet fever, etc., together with 
alcohol, which is a product of a vegetable organism, are 
illustrations of disease-producing agencies belonging to this 
group. 

(d) Animal poisons. These include the various poisons 
found in the cells of the dead and putrefying animal body. 
They produce conditions varying from the auto-intoxication 
of the living subject, to the serious blood poisoning incurred 
in the handling of dead bodies, or from snake bodies. 

8. Germs, or vegetable parasites. These include all the 
various vegetable bodies commonly called germs, which are 
the cause of the so-called contagious or infectious diseases. 



V<1 



D/phfherig Germs 



Typhoid Germs 






Infechon 



\ \ 



Erysipelas 



Tuberculosis 






Anthrax 




Pneumonia 






FIG 39 ~ /J Group of Disease. Germs. 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 311 

The germs of many of these diseases have not yet been dis- 
covered, but the specific germs responsible for tuberculosis, 
diphtheria, pneumonia, meningitis, cholera, lockjaw, erysip- 
elas, etc., are known and have been thoroughly studied, and 
efforts have been made to find methods of effectually counter- 
working them. (Fig. 39.) 

9. Animal parasites. Animal parasites include many 
common scourges such as the ordinary itch mite, fleas, bed- 
bugs, lice, and also a group of internal parasites which in- 
fect the body, such as tapeworm and trichina; these are ac- 
quired from eating raw beef and pork. (Fig. 40.) 

CONTAGIOUS DISEASES 

The so-called contagious or transmissible diseases such 
as diphtheria, measles, mumps, scarlet fever, smallpox, chick- 
enpox and whooping cough, are said to be epidemic when 
one person in a thousand in a community is stricken. When 
a disease like influenza extends over several continents at 
the same time, it is said to be pandemic. When an epidemic 
strikes a community, it finds some persons who are immune 
and others who are susceptible to the disease. Immunity to 
a disease may be acquired by having experienced a previous 
attack, or having had a similar disease, like in the case of 
vaccination producing cowpox, and this protecting the vac- 
cinated individual against smallpox. Or the disease may 
be fought by means of antitoxin, as in the case of diphtheria. 
Still another method of preventing and fighting disease is 
by means of the germ toxins, which are administered in 
small, but increasing, doses. This method has been tried 
with some success in the prevention of typhoid fever and the 
treatment of tuberculosis. 

It is certainly a mistake to expose small children to any 
of the contagious diseases of childhood, with the view of 
having them " take the disease and be through with it when 
they are young." Whooping cough . may predispose to 
pneumonia and tuberculosis; scarlet fever may affect both 
the heart and the kidneys; measles may lead to serious dis- 
ease of the eyes, as well as tuberculosis; while diphtheria 



312 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

commonly affects the heart and kidneys, and may leave the 
nervous system so crippled as to result in paralysis. Many 
of these diseases are very fatal to the infant. By means 
of quarantine, isolation, disinfection, and every other rule 
and regulation of the modern Boards of Health, these dis- 
eases should be fought and resisted. The directions of the 
health officer and the attending physician should be strictly, 
yea, conscientiously, carried out in all these matters. 

Modern medical research concerning the cause of disease 
has resulted in the production of such a vast array of scien- 
tific evidence respecting the specific causes of various dis- 
eases, as almost to destroy the old superstition which taught 
that human affliction resulted from the distemper of the 
gods, the juxtaposition of the stars, the phases of the moon, 
or some mysterious dispensation of Providence. 

While the older and unscientific ideas regarding the 
" catching of disease " have been largely dispelled by the 
scientific searchlights of the twentieth century, the newer 
teachings of science regarding contagion and infection are 
not fully grasped or thoroughly understood by the average 
individual of to-day. 

The layman has, in a general way come to understand 
that the various communicable diseases are transmitted from 
one person to another by means of " germs " or " para- 
sites " ; but the particular channels or specific means where- 
by the germs of disease are conveyed from one person to 
another and from one locality to another, are not as fully 
understood as they should be, to enable the layman to co- 
operate intelligently with the health authorities in the 
gigantic struggle which is now being waged in the arena of 
hygiene by the trained forces of science against the malig- 
nant forces of disease. This great " health battle " which is 
now on, has for its object the prevention of disease, the pro- 
motion of health, and the preservation of the race. 

THE SOIL OF DISEASE 

There are certain general conditions which favor the 
spread of contagious diseases. These should be first dis- 




7 'niching 




Taps Worm 





Body Louse 




/fch Mite 





Round Warm 



FIG. 40.' Group of Animal Parasites 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 313 

posed of, before we take up the consideration of " disease 
carriers " for specific maladies. Environment, sanitation, 
and climate, together with the actual physical and mental 
state of the individual, all act as predisposing influences in 
the " catching of disease." 

1. Lowered vital resistance. In a general way, the human 
body resists disease by means of certain inherent and auto- 
matic agencies of self-defence, which are resident within 
the body. The sum total of these "fighting powers" or 
resisting measures of the body, is spoken of as the individ- 
ual's " vital resistance." We desire to emphasize the fact 
that it requires a " disease soil " as well as a " disease seed " 
to produce the various contagious and infectious maladies ; 
that is, the germs of disease may fall upon one individual 
who, because of his strong " vital resistance," presents an 
unfavorable soil for the growth and development of these 
germs; therefore, he does not take the disease. Some of 
the same group of germs gain access to another individual 
who, because of his low " vital resistance," presents a fa- 
vorable soil for the growth and development of the germs 
of this particular disease; therefore, this individual is im- 
mediately stricken down. And so we repeat: a favorable 
soil is required for the development of transmissible dis- 
eases as well as the presence of the seed or germ of the 
disease itself. 

Ordinarily, health is more contagious than disease, and 
microbes are not attracted to the perfectly healthy individ- 
ual. The normal healthy man is mightier than the microbe. 

By the cultivation of " vital resistance " and the proper 
regard of sanitary regulations on the part of the whole hu- 
man race, it is entirely within our power to drive every 
germ disease from the face of the earth. While it is ad- 
vantageous to understand fully the working of various " dis- 
ease carriers," it is equally important to cultivate a phys- 
ical constitution which is able to withstand all ordinary 
"germ attacks." 

2. Unsanitary surroundings. Under this head are in- 
cluded faulty disposal of sewage, dark basements and damp 



314 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

cellars, accumulated rubbish in the back yard, bad plumbing, 
drains, etc., together with contaminated vaults and cesspits, 
barnyard filth, etc. All these faults and errors of sanita- 
tion serve to increase the "breeding grounds" of various 
disease germs. These same unhygienic surroundings in- 
directly react to the weakening of the individual's "vital 
resistance." But, after all, these are rather " disease breed- 
ers " and we are at this time discussing " disease carriers." 

In the battle against contagious diseases, it is absolutely 
essential that the health authorities should have the un- 
qualified support and conscientious cooperation of every 
person in the community. The carelessness or indifference 
of a single individual, or the disregard of the health offi- 
cer's instruction by a single family, often results in giving 
a fresh start to a smouldering epidemic, producing untold 
suffering and much loss of life. 

Considerable has been said in the earlier portions of this 
book concerning the germs of disease and various methods of 
subduing and destroying them. It should be remembered 
that sunshine, fresh air, and cleanliness, are the effective 
weapons to use against disease germs. In spite of all these, 
the germs of certain epidemic and contagious diseases are 
sure to fasten themselves upon a large percentage of indi- 
viduals who may be exposed to them. The moment that 
you suspect yourself, or a member of your family, about to 
be afflicted with a contagious disease, summon your physi- 
cian. Even a mild contagious disease may have serious 
complications, and it is certainly unwise for parents to un- 
dertake to carry their children through these attacks. To 
do so may be to jeopardize the future health and welfare of 
the child. It is important that the physician's orders at 
such times should be adhered to to the letter. The doctor 
has a reason for asking you to be careful to prevent certain 
complications in these common diseases of childhood. 

Further discussion or suggestions as to the treatment of 
diseases will not find place in this work. They will be re- 
served for future consideration. 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 315 

HYGIENE OF THE ATMOSPHERE 

The contagion of disease seems to be, in varied degree, 
carried by means of the breath and bodily excretions of the 
patient, and in the case of smallpox epidemics it would 
seem that, in a limited degree at least, the air must serve as 
a vehicle for the spread of the contagion. 

Ordinarily, the air contains only harmless bacteria and, 
when not contaminated with dust or exposed to other germ- 
breeding sources of disease, is not to be seriously regarded 
as a " disease carrier." 

The atmosphere of the sick chamber is, of course, re- 
garded with just suspicion. Following sickness or death, 
where there is the slightest ground for suspecting a com- 
municable disease, the rooms should be promptly and thor- 
oughly fumigated. Formerly, sulphur was regarded as an 
efficient fumigant, but at present formaldehyde gas is gen- 
erally considered to be superior, as it does not harm the 
furnishings; it should be administered either by the local 
health authorities, or in accordance with directions which 
these officials will gladly furnish. 

Careful tests of air made by special apparatus to deter- 
mine the number of microbes present, show that the atmos- 
phere varies in this respect according to location, country, 
city, etc. The air ordinarily contains from 100 to 1,000 
microbes per cubic metre. 

Outside of smallpox, it is highly probable that the atmos- 
phere does not act as a direct " disease carrier " except in 
the case of the severe epidemics. 

DUST DANGERS 

The clouds of dust swept up by the wind from the streets 
of city or village are laden with the germs of disease. Dust 
is an enemy of human health and happiness. The germs of 
tuberculosis, pneumonia, and other diseases, when in this 
dry form, are able to live for a long period and may be 
blown about promiscuously, infecting large numbers of peo- 



316 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

pie. Public streets and highways should be sprinkled or 
oiled wherever possible, especially in close proximity to 
dwellings. 

Household dust should be avoided with equal care. Es- 
pecially is this true of rooms where the sunlight is not per- 
mitted to have free access. The dust of all dark rooms is 
extraordinarily dangerous. The old-fashioned feather duster 
should find no place in the home. It is a vicious practice to 
go about stirring up the dust by means of these feather 
dusters. The atmosphere is filled with dust germs, which 
the one who does the dusting is compelled to inhale. Fur- 
niture and woodwork should be dusted by means of a dry 
or slightly moist cloth. 

Carpets belong to a by-gone age. They have no place in 
this modern scientific era. The floors should be covered 
with rugs, which can be frequently taken out of the house 
and exposed to a purifying bath of sunshine. The old- 
fashioned carpet tacked down to the floor and removed but 
once a year at house-cleaning time, is a veritable disease 
breeder and death trap. 

THE DRINKING WATER, 

Sources of water contamination and methods of purifica- 
tion were fully considered in Chapter XIII. 

Asiatic cholera is almost invariably conveyed by means 
of water. The bathers in the sacred river Ganges, which is 
the everlasting source of this disease, drink the infected 
water, and after departing in various homeward directions, 
are stricken by this terrible disease. Proper quarantine 
regulations and a pure water supply will forever keep 
cholera from our midst. The majority of the diarrhoeal dis- 
eases of summer, both of infants and adults, together with 
typhoid fever, cholera morbus, and cholera, are largely mat- 
ters of food and drink. When visiting in strange places, 
especially in the country where water is obtained from 
wells, have it boiled before you drink it. Be careful how 
you eat unpeeled fruit or unwashed vegetables which have 
been exposed to street dust or exhibited in other public 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 317 

places of the city. See that vegetables are thoroughly 
washed or cooked before eating. See that the milk is fresh ; 
that it has been kept on ice, so as to prevent the undue de- 
velopment of germs. Attend to these matters, especially 
while you are taking your vacation and are exposed to new 
and, perhaps, unwholesome drinking water and other dis- 
ease dangers. It will not be necessary here to repeat the 
cautions given with regard to drinking water and other 
general phases of hygiene discussed in preceding chapters. 

Ordinary, pure well water, or filtered river water, con- 
tains ten to three hundred germs per cubic centimetre ; 
while unfiltered, polluted water contains as high as fifty mil- 
lion microbes per cubic centimetre. Fortunately, the vast 
majority of germs and animalcule found in drinking water 
are relatively harmless, and the problem becomes serious 
only when one or more of the disease-producing organisms 
are found. 

There is great danger of spreading certain infections 
through the use of impure ice. Freezing does not destroy 
all germs. Typhoid fever and other disease germs can live 
for months in a cake of solid ice and then, with the melting 
of the ice, set about their deadly work. 

CONTAMINATION OF THE SOIL. 

The soil is literally swarming with germs, containing as 
high as 100,000 little colonies or groups per cubic centi- 
metre in virgin earth. 

The soil may contain various bacteria found in connec- 
tion with animal and vegetable decay, as well as the eggs 
of various worms which grow in the human intestine; but 
the most formidable and dangerous of the " soil germs " 
are the microbes of tetanus (lockjaw) and malignant edema, 
a rare but pernicious malady. These deadly germs thrive in 
the soil because of the fact that they grow without oxygen 
air kills them and this is exactly why the doctor insists 
on " keeping the wound open " in case of rusty nail injuries 
on the feet, and firecracker or toy pistol injuries about the 
dirty and germ-laden hands of the small boy hurt at his 



318 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Fourth of July celebration. The lockjaw germ can't grow 
if air is present. 

HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS 

In the case of measles, diphtheria, scarlet fever, chicken- 
pox, etc., the articles of furniture, hangings, carpets, bed 
clothing, personal clothing, etc., are all more or less in- 
fected. Especially in typhoid, all bed linen should be thor- 
oughly disinfected in a carbolic acid solution before being 
sent to the laundry, or in such other solution as the local 
health authorities or the attending physician may direct. 
Even the dishes and silverware may prove the means of 
spreading infection to other members of the family, and 
should be carefully disinfected by weak carbolic acid or other 
suitable solution. All bowel discharges and kidney secre- 
tions of typhoid patients should be disinfected before enter- 
ing the sewer. 

The contagion of most of these diseases seems to remain 
active for many years, and cases are on record where in- 
nocent children have been stricken down with scarlet fever 
or diphtheria contracted from the handling of clothing, shoes, 
or trinkets, of a brother or sister who died of the disease 
years before, which the mother had fondly preserved in some 
bureau drawer or other place about the house. 

The only safe policy to pursue in case of these contagious 
diseases is thoroughly to disinfect everything connected 
with the patient and sick room, as well as every article 
handled during the illness, and most carefully fumigate the 
room or rooms infected, at the close of the illness. 

In all diseases which are characterized by a skin eruption 
or " breaking out " and which are subsequently followed by 
more or less " scaling," the patient should be anointed with 
olive oil or cocoa butter every day to prevent the falling off 
of these dry scales and their promiscuous scattering about 
the premises. The person who is daily oiled, can have the 
skin properly cleaned by a good scrubbing in connection with 
3ie soap bath, without serious danger of spreading the in- 
fection. 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 319 

Contagious diseases may be also carried by means of let- 
ters, packages, presents, etc. 

THE BEDROOM 

Ordinarily, every night the traveller goes to bed, he ex- 
poses himself to some new disease. While the linen upon 
his bed may be fresh and clean, his bed covering is probably 
that which has covered many a consumptive or many a suf- 
ferer from a worse disease. 

The carpets and other furnishings of the room, which 
perhaps have not been fumigated in years, unless by accident 
the health officer has discovered contagious disease therein, 
are all a menace to the health of the travelling public. 

The staterooms of steamships and the berths of the Pull- 
man sleeping car must all be regarded as vehicles for spread- 
ing disease, unless they are most carefully attended to and 
frequently fumigated. The Pullman Company has certainly 
made commendable progress during the past few years in 
the matter of disinfecting and cleaning its cars. Let the 
good work go on. 

The bad ventilation of churches, lecture halls, hotels, and, 
during the winter season, the closeness of sleeping cars and 
street cars, are all directly concerned in the spread of disease; 
this is due to the fact that deficient ventilation encourages 
the accumulation of the deadly germs which are transmitted 
by means of the vitiated air found in such places. 

As the result of insufficient ventilation, the germs which 
are directly the cause of the various house diseases 
catarrh, bronchitis, pneumonia, and tuberculosis, are dis- 
seminated on a large scale, and thousands of people are 
annually exposed to these contagions; all of which could 
easily be prevented by proper scientific ventilation. 

INFECTED TOILET ARTICLES 

The practice of more than one individual using the same 
towel is responsible for the promiscuous spreading of many 
diseases. Common colds, influenza, contagious sore eyes, 



320 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

and numerous skin disorders may be spread in this way. 
Large numbers of children at school who have used the 
same towel for drying their faces, have become infected with 
contagious sore eyes, commonly called " pink-eye," which 
sometimes proves to be a very serious malady in its results. 
All toilet articles may serve to convey disease when used 
by a second party, after having been used by an infected 
individual. 

It should be one of the fixed habits of life to wash the 
hands thoroughly before taking food. The hands of the 
ordinary citizen are literally teeming with microbes, varied 
according to the occupation and the exposure of the hands 
to contaminated germ-breeding scources. 

Especially are the finger nails a prolific source of infec- 
tion, polluting the body with various disease germs. Dirty 
nails habor the germs of pus-infection, lockjaw, the eggs of 
various worms which may thrive in the digestive canal of 
man, together with the microbes of erysipelas, and any other 
germ to which the hands have been exposed or which were 
present on the materials handled. 

The bath brush, tooth brush, etc., even when used by a 
single individual, should be exposed daily to sunlight and 
frequently sterilized by boiling. 

PUBLIC DRINKING CUPS 

There is plenty of evidence to warrant a severe indict- 
ment being drawn against the public drinking cup as a 
"disease spreader." The diseases which possibly may be 
spread about by this means are among the more serious 
maladies affecting the human family, embracing tuberculosis 
and syphilis, the two supreme scourges of the human race 
the Great White Plague and the Great Black Plague. 
The so-called " loving cup " is a disgrace to modern civil- 
ization and should be finally and forever banished. There 
is little doubt that the march of sanitary science will result, 
ere long, in the banishment of the public drinking cup. 
Every individual should carry a small collapsing drinking 



'HYGIENE AND SANITATION 321 

cup when travelling or when away from home. The time 
has certainly come when the public should understand that 
syphilis, the most loathsome of all diseases afflicting the 
human family, may possibly be contracted from dishes, 
silverware, and drinking cups. Every public drinking foun- 
tain, until such time as the public cup is banished, should 
have conspicuously posted the following notice: 

Health Notice. 

Thoroughly rinse the cup before drinking, especially the 
edges. 

Certain railway companies have banished the public drink- 
ing cup from their trains, offering in its place, individual 
paper cups. Let us hope that all railroads and the Pullman 
Palace Car Co., will immediately follow suit. 

Microscopic examination of a single public drinking glass 
showed over 20,000 human epithelial cells skin from the 
mouth and lips about the edges of the glass, with from 100 
to 200 germs clinging to some of the cells, and at least 10 
germs fastened to the vast majority of the cells, while 
between the cells, thousands of bacteria were present, as a 
result of the saliva deposited by the drinkers. Professor 
Davison reports 100,000 germs on every square inch of a 
glass examined. 

Tuberculosis germs are found on drinking cups, and 
severe epidemics have been traced directly to the public 
drinking cup. Especially are cups or glasses having chip- 
ped or rough edges dangerous. There is positively no 
excuse for the old-fashioned communion cup formerly used 
in churches. 

Those public fountains where the water bubbles up into 
a cup-like formation at the top of an upright pipe and, after 
running over the sides, is caught by the horse-trough or 
other waste receptacle, are to be commended for public school 
grounds and parks, as the constant outflow of water prevents 
infection, even in case the lips should touch the sides of the 
drinking bowl, which is usually not the case. 

21 



322 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

Especially should one be careful about drinking out of 
public cups when the lips are dry or parched, or when there 
is present a cold sore or other abrasion about the mouth. 
When the mouth or lips are in such a state, under no cir- 
cumstances should the drinking cup be allowed to touch the 
mucous membrane. Let the cup rest directly under the 
lower lip against the unbroken skin, and drink something 
after the fashion of a horse drinking out of a trough. 

What we are writing in this connection applies with 
peculiar force to the drinking glasses used about soda foun- 
tains and ice cream parlors, as well as those employed in 
saloons and other public drinking places, where they are 
only carelessly rinsed in a bucket or basin of dirty water. 
A practising physician is constantly meeting with the sad 
cases of innocent young men and women, as well as wives 
and mothers, whose life happiness has been blighted by the 
accidental contraction of loathsome diseases through the 
channels of the old-fashioned loving cup and other easily 
preventable means. 

PROMISCUOUS KISSING. 

The author does not desire to start any faddish agitation 
against the time-honored practice of osculatory greeting. 
We only desire to call attention to certain disease dangers 
that lurk behind this common practice. They are largely 
the same group as those transmitted by the public drinking 
cup, to which should be added also tonsilitis and other 
diseases of the catarrhal group, as well as tuberculosis, colds, 
syphilis, etc. Many cases of the last named disease are 
clearly traceable to kissing as their vehicle of transmission. 
It is in this way that many innocent young women are con- 
taminated for life as a result of indulging in this common, 
but none the less dangerous, sentimentality. 

The author holds as particularly objectionable, the common 
practice of promiscuously kissing the baby. If the baby is 
to be kissed by all the friends and relatives, it would be 
better to kiss him on the cheek and not directly in the mouth. 
These little ones are particularly susceptible to mouth dis- 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 323 

eases and infections, and it is certainly not in keeping with 
the spirit of hygienic progress abroad in this age, to allow one 
and all to kiss the little ones upon the lips. I dare say that 
the infant world, if they knew of my plea along this line 
in their behalf, would unanimously accord me a vote of 
thanks, although they might be unable fully to appreciate 
the hygienic value of my warning. We are of the opinion 
that the babies do not enjoy being smothered and kissed 
according to the popular custom. 

RAW FOODS 

Raw fruits, vegetables, etc., especially those which have 
been exposed to the street dust of the city, may prove a 
prolific source of spreading typhoid fever, diarrhoeal, and 
other diseases, if eaten before they are thoroughly washed 
to say nothing of the fact that raw, dirty vegetables may 
carry the eggs of numerous worms which infest the soil, and 
which may develop and grow in the bowel-tract of man. 
Make it a rule either to boil, wash, or carefully pare the fresh 
fruits and vegetables, especially the vegetables, and more 
particularly if these things have been exposed to city dust 
and dirt. Fresh fruit and vegetables are perfectly safe when 
pared or thoroughly scrubbed. 

PUBLIC FUNERALS 

The disease dangers in connection with public funerals 
are not now so great as formerly thanks to our Board of 
Health regulations; nevertheless, there are many funerals 
following various diseases more or less contagious, which 
are now permitted to be held in public, which jeopardize 
the health of those in attendance. Especially is this true of 
home funerals, where all the mourners are exposed to the 
contagion of the disease as found in the death chamber and 
other rooms of the house, unless the same have been thor- 
oughly disinfected and properly fumigated. 

Unless such funerals are conducted under strict medical 
supervision and after the premises are properly disinfected, 



324 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

the author believes that all funeral services where the in- 
dividual has died of a transmissible disease, should be held 
in private. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 

There can be no doubt that future investigation will dis- 
close the fact that the books and magazines found upon 
tables in the waiting-rooms of dentists, physicians, etc., as 
well as the books and magazines of the public libraries, are 
all concerned in the spread of various contagious diseases, 
particularly certain skin diseases. The likelihood of public 
libraries acting as disease carriers is now being taken into 
serious account by library officials in this country and 
Europe; and on the Continent experiments have been ex- 
tensively conducted to ascertain the best methods of dis- 
infecting books. An illustrated article recently appeared 
disclosing several successful methods employed in connection 
with certain European libraries, which thoroughly sterilized 
the books without in any way harming the paper, print, or 
binding. 

RAILWAY SEWAGE, 

The present plan of disposing of sewage of the travelling 
public by allowing it to be deposited in the open air along 
the highways of travel, is one of the most reckless and 
unsanitary practices with which we are acquainted. Let us 
suppose a case by no means out of the ordinary: an in- 
dividual starting on a transcontinental tour, afflicted with 
some form of dysentery or some other diarrhoeal disease or 
perhaps in the earlier stages of typhoid fever, boards a train. 
The nature of the disease is such as to produce frequent 
bowel-action for several days. In this way, a single patient 
whisked across the country by the limited expresses, more 
or less infects the entire length of this highway of travel. 
Within a few days these infectious bowel discharges have 
become more or less dried and, in the form of dust, easily 
whisked up by passing trains to be inhaled by the passengers 
or deposited upon drinking cups or the food and dishes of 
the dining car, to be subsequently eaten. The only reason 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 325 

infections from this cause are not greater, is probably due 
to the sterilizing powers of the direct rays of the sun, which 
kill large numbers of the disease microbes. The time is 
ripe to begin an educational campaign, that the public may 
fully understand that the railroads are maintaining an " open 
sewer " along their right of way. Careful and conservative 
estimates of the quantity of human excrement deposited 
along the highways of travel in the United States place it 
at about 100 pounds per mile per year. There is no doubt 
that the various rivers crossed by the railroads are in 
danger of contamination from this source, and the only 
thing which prevents this " open sewer " from becoming a 
crying nuisance is the fact that, except in the case of 
tunnels, the road bed lies in the open and therefore all 
excrement deposited from the passing train is soon subjected 
to the powerful germicidal action of the sun's rays. 

COUNTRY CLOSETS 

In this connection let us emphasize the importance of 
carefully and thoroughly screening all privy vaults and out- 
houses in the smaller towns and country places where no 
sewer system is in use. This is imperative, in order to 
prevent the spread of summer bowel disorders by means of 
flies. This matter will some day be taken seriously, and 
vigorously enforced by the local health authorities. The 
disease-laden contents of the vault are not exposed to the 
sterilizing action of the sun's rays, and must, therefore, be 
seriously regarded as a menace to health. 

In the country as well as in small towns and villages, 
where sewer connections are not available, every effort 
should be made to install the "dry earth" system of water 
closet. Gather up a box or barrel of dry pulverized dust, 
from the public highway. The dust from the wheel ruts 
is the best, being finely pulverized. A good supply should 
be procured during the dry weather so as to have plenty on 
hand in case of rain. These boxes of dust may be con- 
veniently placed in the closet and by means of a small fire- 
shovel, a quantity of this dry earth is sprinkled into the 



326 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

vault several times a day and this way all odors are de- 
stroyed. And even in the case of unscreened vaults, the 
flies are largely prevented from gaining access to infected 
material by this simple precaution. 



CHAPTER XXII 

HYGIENE AND SANITATION, OR THE PREVENTION 

OF DISEASE 

(Continued) 

FLIES AS DISEASE CARRIERS. THE SLEEPING SICKNESS. MOSQUI- 
TOES AND DISEASE. RATS, FLEAS, AND BEDBUGS. ANIMALS AND 

PARASITES. DISEASED DAIRY PRODUCTS. OYSTERS AND SEA FOOD. 

DOMESTIC PETS. CARELESS SPITTING AND TUBERCULOSIS. 
HOW TO PREVENT CONSUMPTION. HOW TO CURE CONSUMPTION. 

DISINFECTANTS AND DEODORIZERS. QUARANTINE AND ISOLA- 
TION. THE DELUSION OF DRUGS. PATENT MEDICINES. THE 
CITY SLUMS. 

WE can no longer consider the ordinary house fly as a 
harmless nuisance or regard it merely as a pest. 
This little insect is one of the most dangerous animals on the 
face of the earth as regards the health and happiness of the 
human race. Flies feed and flourish on every form of filth. 
They carry the deadly germs of disease by the millions on 
their feet. From 500 to 20,000 germs of typhoid fever and 
other summer diarrhceal diseases have been found on one 
foot of a single fly, and the fly, it should be remembered, has 
a half-dozen feet. (Fig. 41.) 

FLIES AS DISEASE CARRIERS 

The house fly ought to be called the "typhoid fly" but 
for the serious fact that it is also the means of carrying and 
communicating almost a dozen other forms of disease. 

Flies are, in every sense of the word, filthy insects. They 
eat and drink in every known place of filth and disease from 
the cesspit to the vault. They devour the tuberculosis sputum 
by the wayside and hold their banquets in the garbage heap. 

327 



328 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

On the soiled diapers about the nursery, or the discharging 
wounds of the surgical patient, the flies will swarm, and 
carry the germs of infection throughout the neighborhood. 

When a fly falls in a pitcher of milk or is found in other 
food, it may be quite easy to fish out the dead or dying 
insect, but remember that you are unable to fish out the 
million of deadly disease germs which the fly washed off 
his feet in the milk or wiped off on the food. 

The only safe course is to screen the house thoroughly 
and early; carefully protect all food; go to work in earnest 
to destroy the fly's breeding grounds; have the garbage can 
covered; have the garbage daily or frequently removed; 
keep the garbage cans clean either scald with hot water 
or add a little chloride of lime twice a week; have manure 
heaps promptly removed or kept covered in tight boxes or 
pits, so securely that flies cannot gain access to them; de- 
stroy or remove all other heaps of rubbish and garbage; 
for if all filth can be removed, flies will be robbed of their 
breeding grounds. 

Flies which have feasted upon tuberculosis sputum have 
been found to deposit 3,000 tubercle germs with each fly 
speck, and every fly is estimated to make about 25 specks a 
day. Thousands of people who are horrified on discovering 
a bedbug in the house, are indifferent to flies as they swarm 
about the food throughout the kitchen, crawl over the face 
and lips of the sleeping baby, and expose the entire family 
to the contraction of any contagious disease that may be 
within half a mile of their dwelling place. It is time that 
we awaken to the fact that mosquito bars and screens are 
cheaper than doctors' bills and funerals. 

Of the insects invading the house, over 95 per cent are 
the "ordinary house fly"; the remaining 5 per cent include 
the stable fly, the flies which bite just before showers; the 
blue-bottle or blow flies, which commonly lay their eggs on 
fresh or decaying meat; together with the small window 
and fruit flies. These small flies are not small house flies 
they are another species. 

Many house flies live all winter in some crack in the 




fialBhn plata over which 
a house fly has walked. 





Larva of the house fly. 





Fly on p/ece of sponge caks. 



Adult house fly 



Fl G . 4 I . - Flie.5 as disease carriers. 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 329 

wall or in some other sheltered place, in a sort of benumbed 
state, until the warm spring days, when they are dis- 
covered buzzing about the windows. 

It requires only about twelve days for a full grown fly 
to develop from the egg. The female fly is estimated by 
various authorities to lay from 100 to 1,000 eggs during the 
season. 

Let us suppose that each female lays only 100 eggs and 
that one-half her offspring are females. This would give us 
50 adult egg-laying females at the end of the first generation 
or in twelve days from the time the eggs were laid by the 
first female fly. At this same rate, by the eighth generation 
or near the season's close, there would spring from this 
one original female fly, billions of adult flies; but even if we 
should allow for the destruction and death of a very large 
part of the females all along during the season, we would 
still have a prodigious number of offspring produced by a 
single fly in a single season; and these estimates do not in- 
clude an equal number of male flies which are just as active 
as the females in spreading disease. 

Manure has been found to contain as high as 2,400,000 
developing flies to the ton. 

How to kill Hies. Flies are more easily prevented than 
killed. Their breeding grounds are very easily removed; 
and they are easily destroyed in the form of maggots, for 
all flies are maggots before they are flies. If through care- 
lessness or faulty screening, flies do gain access to the house, 
they may be destroyed in the following ways: 

1. Fly traps of various designs are on the market, many 
of which are very effective in entrapping these insects. 

2. Sticky fly paper. This means will be found quite 
effective in helping to eradicate the pest in the house that 
has been tardily screened. 

3. Fly poisons. The following will be found useful in 
killing flies. Place two teaspoonsful of ordinary formalde- 
hyde in a pint of slightly sweetened water and put in a shal- 
low dish where the flies are thickest. 

But most of these fly poisons are equally poisonous to the 



330 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

baby and the children about the house. The following fly 
poisons will be found useful in killing flies, but will not 
kill the baby : 

Bichromate of potash 2 drams. 

Dissolve in water 3 or 4 ounces. 

Sweeten with plenty of sugar. 

Expose to the flies in a plate or other shallow dish. 

How to prevent Hies. After all, the safest and sanest 
method of fighting flies is to labor for their prevention, and 
this is brought about by general cleanliness. Keep the 
house and premises sweet and clean. Specific suggestions 
may be made as follows: 

1. Sprinkle chloride of lime over privy vaults, manure 
piles, and other piles of refuse, if they cannot be immediately 
burned or removed. 

2. Keep garbage cans tightly covered; empty and clean 
daily, or at least three times a week. 

3. Keep manure in closed boxes or covered pits. Remove 
no less than twice a week. 

4. Pour kerosene into any suspected drains or sinks. 

5. Keep the house and yard absolutely clean. Admit 
fresh air and sunshine. 

THE SLEEPING SICKNESS 

Sleeping sickness, known as a fatal disease occurring 
among the negroes of tropical West Africa, has within the 
past five years been almost certainly shown to be trans- 
mitted by the tsetse fly. During slavery days in America 
and the West Indies, the sickness was occasionally imported 
to the Western Hemisphere by negroes sold into slavery, 
but it never spread to individuals born outside of Africa, 
the necessary intermediate host and distributor of the dis- 
ease, the tsetse fly, being lacking. With the exploration and 
the commercial opening up of the African continent, the 
disease wandered from its original area, extending along the 
Congo River and in other directions, so that to-day it is not 
only common throughout the Congo Free State, but threat- 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 331 

ens Egypt as well, having recently invaded the Nile Valley. 
In portions of the interior of Africa, notably the Victoria 
Nyanza Lake region, it is epidemic to such an extent that 
the entire population of many villages .has been destroyed 
and the country, in areas, is practically depopulated. 

The trypanosome causing this disease is transmitted by 
the tsetse fly and by it only. 

MOSQUITOES AND DISEASE. 

The blame for carrying both malaria and yellow fever 
has been conclusively fastened upon the mosquito. One 
particular species carries malaria. Biting an individual 
afflicted with this disease, it takes a parasite into its system, 
which subsequently burrows into the wall of its stomach, 
and there goes through a cycle of development, from which 
its eggs are carried to the salivary glands and. in the act 
of biting the healthy individual, they are injected into his 
blood, where they hatch out after a certain number of 
hours, flooding the system with the plasmodium parasite and 
its poisons, thereby bringing on the unpleasant attacks of 
alternating chills and fever. 

The study of yellow fever in Cuba thoroughly demon- 
strated that it was transmitted by a species of mosquito, 
the same as malarial fever; and the destruction of mosqui- 
toes has practically driven yellow fever out of Havana, 
which, until recently, was regarded as its home. 

As in the fighting of flies, the diseases transmitted by the 
mosquito are best fought by directing efforts against its 
breeding places, and by effectually screening all dwelling 
places against the entrance of mosquitoes, and especially 
protecting patients afflicted with malaria or yellow fever, 
from the mosquito. 

Many experiments have been made to determine how best 
to destroy mosquitoes and their breeding grounds. It should 
be remembered that they breed in warm weather wherever 
stagnant water is found, whether it is in the marsh, the pond, 
or the rain barrel. Ordinary coal oil or kerosene has been 
found to be one of the most effective means of destroying 



332 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

these insects and their eggs. Kerosene poured upon the 
surface of stagnant pools or rain barrels will destroy and 
effectually prevent the breeding of mosquitoes for about 
two weeks. Proper drainage of the city streets and of 
the country swamps will be found the most effective means 
of preventing the production of mosquitoes and, incidentally, 
the prevention of malaria and yellow fever. It had long 
been observed that epidemics of yellow fever always de- 
creased with the first frost. This was simply due to the fact 
that the frost destroyed the mosquito, which had carried the 
fever from one person to another. 

RATS, FLEAS, AND BEDBUGS 

It is now pretty thoroughly demonstrated that both rats 
and fleas are concerned in the spread of the bubonic plague 
an old-time scourge that was dreaded by all nations. 
From eating the corpses of the victims of plague and in other 
ways, the rat infects himself with this disease. These in- 
fected rats are carried from port to port, from continent to 
continent, by means of ships. Fleas infest these rats, suck 
their blood, and subsequently bite human beings and infect 
them with this deadly disease. (Fleas also have been 
charged with spreading typhus fever and leprosy.) Fleas 
and rats are no doubt concerned in other mischief as regards 
the spread of disease, but with this much knowledge at 
hand, it behooves every civilized nation to instigate a 
thorough war on rats, and, if possible, eradicate these pests, 
who have proven themselves to be the agency for the spread 
of this terrible plague. 

It is now stated that the ground-squirrels are a menace; 
that they may take the germs of bubonic plague from rats, 
and make it endemic in California. The only real remedy 
there seems to be is persistent war on rats till all are de- 
stroyed. 

The ordinary household bedbug is not unlikely a guilty 
party to the spread of disease, but, like the fly, until very 
recently it has escaped the attention of the detectives of 
science; yet, from our present knowledge of the role of 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 333 

various insects and pests in the causation of disease, we 
must come to regard this blood-sucking insect with grave 
suspicion. The bedbug has been seriously charged with 
spreading smallpox; while body lice are blamed for carry- 
ing typhoid and relapsing fevers. 

A prominent English physician has written a book trying 
to prove that leprosy is contracted from eating certain 
kinds of fish. 

ANIMALS AND PARASITES 

Ordinary parasites attaching themselves to man are the 
itch mite, screw worm, leeches, lice, etc. It is needless to 
say that bodily cleanliness and usual care suffice to prevent 
these parasites. Head lice are best combated by means of 
a coal oil shampoo. Itch mites are destroyed by repeated 
scrubbing with a rough brush and green soap, followed by 
an application of sulphur ointment. 

Recently it has been discovered that an ordinary tick 
living upon certain animals in the Rocky Mountain region 
is able to impart the so-called Rocky Mountain sickness or 
fever, when it bites human beings. 

Another group of parasites find their way into the inside 
of the body, living in the digestive canal or burrowing into 
the muscles. These are the echinococcus (dog tapeworm), 
the trichina, the amoeba of tropical dysentery, the tapeworm, 
round worm, pin worm, hook worm, etc. Many of these 
worms are swallowed by persons while in bathing. Un- 
der no circumstances should bath water, in either pools or 
lakes, ever be admitted to the mouth. Some of the parasites 
are secured from raw, unwashed, and uncooked vegetables 
and fruit; some of them are also gotten from handling cats 
and dogs. Special care should be used about touching these 
domestic pets at meal time. 

Trichina is a little animal which is found in hog flesh, 
fish flesh, and probably in the flesh of certain fowls. It 
finds its way into the muscles, where it develops, producing 
great misery and occasionally death. The tapeworm is se- 
cured from eating beef and also from other forms of flesh. 



334 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

It is certainly a grave 'danger to eat either raw pork or rare 
beef. Rats burrow into graveyards and eat the corpses of 
infected human beings, as well as other animals affected with 
trichina. These rats are eaten by hogs, and the hogs are 
in turn eaten by man. In this way, the cycle of infection 
is maintained for this disease. 

That the flesh of animals serves as a means of conveying 
diseases to man, has long been recognized. It is extremely 
difficult for either State or Federal authorities properly to 
examine and inspect the meat supply of the country. For 
instance, pork was never examined for trichina except in 
the case of that which was exported, and even this exami- 
nation was discontinued in 1906. It is extremely difficult to 
find these parasites even when the pork is carefully exam- 
ined, so it would appear that thorough cooking is the only 
safeguard for the pork eater. We quote as follows from a 
recent letter from the Chief of the Bureau of Animal In- 
dustry, U. S. Government: 

" In numerous instances trichinous pork has been micro- 
scopically examined as many as twenty or thirty times be- 
fore the parasites were found, and as it is utterly imprac- 
ticable to make so many examinations of such carcasses, the 
unreliability of the inspection should be obvious. The 
government mark ' U. S. Inspected and Passed ' does not 
guarantee that the pork is free from trichina, and it is there- 
fore recommended that in all cases pork should be thor- 
oughly cooked or cured before it is used for food." 

In view of the fact that animals slaughtered for food 
are likely to be affected with such a variety of diseases from 
tuberculosis down, we would strongly urge upon all thor- 
oughly to cook all flesh foods. The practice of eating rare 
and partially done meats is exceedingly dangerous and 
should be generally abandoned. 

The " liver-fluke " disease, prevalent in Japan and Egypt, 
is usually secured from infected drinking water; while 
hydatid cyst (echinococcus disease) is secured from the 
dog, and is seldom found outside of Iceland and other 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 335 

countries where dogs and their masters live closely to- 
gether. 

The " hook worm," a parasite attaching itself to the walls 
of the bowel, is probably secured by taking the eggs or 
embryos along with the food contaminated with dirt 
and refuse. This disease recently has been discovered to be 
quite prevalent in the Southern States. It has a tendency 
to " die out " if new infections do not occur. It would seem 
that this parasite is actually able to penetrate the skin, and 
an individual may be infected by handling soil or other 
objects contaminated with these animals. It is quite prob- 
able that the " hook worm " is responsible for the anaemia 
and general weakness exhibited by such large numbers of 
the poorer whites and also by the negroes throughout the 
Southern States. 

Horses, cows, etc., frequently communicate disease to man. 
Glanders, a most fatal disease, can be secured from the 
horse, or from handling the hides of animals that have died 
of the disease. 

DISEASED DAIRY PRODUCTS 

Milk is the germ's paradise. There are few known sub- 
stances in which the majority of disease germs will grow 
better and faster than in ordinary cow's milk which is not 
placed on ice immediately after milking and kept there. 
Whole epidemics of diphtheria, scarlet fever, etc., as well as 
typhoid fever and other of the summer diarrhoeal diseases, 
have been traced to a single infected milk supply, or to one 
infected milk depot. Butter may also serve as a disease 
carrier, for, as it is ordinarily sold on the market, it is 
teeming with untold millions of microbes. 

Carelessly handled city milk is frequently found to con- 
tain from 3,000,000 to 5,000,000 germs to the cubic cent- 
imetre. By proper legal regulation requiring the keeping 
of milk on ice, as well as enforcing cleanliness in con- 
nection with the processes of milking, stabling, storage, etc., 
the number of bacteria can easily be reduced to 100,000 or 



336 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

200,000 per cubic centimetre, the latter number being the 
largest number permitted by some cities. 

Butter made from creamery products is found to contain 
fewer germs when fresh than the butter made from milk 
and cream which have been allowed to sour under varying 
and unfavorable circumstances. Sterilizing the cream be- 
fore making butter insures a product containing the least 
possible number of microbes and is called " sterilized butter." 

Ice cream is, in a measure, subject to the same dangers in 
relation to disease as milk, for the freezing in no way de- 
stroys the germs of disease, although it does greatly inter- 
fere with the rapid development and multiplication of the 
microbes. 

OYSTERS AND SEA FOOD. 

There is little doubt at the present time that oysters may 
serve as a direct means of communicating typhoid fever. 
The living, deadly germs of this disease are frequently found 
in the oyster's body, and numerous cases and outbreaks of 
this disease are on record, which have been carefully traced 
to oysters as their source. It may be subsequently dis- 
covered that other shell fish and water animals of more or 
less scavenger character are also guilty of conveying this 
bacillus to the body, when they are eaten as food. 

DOMESTIC PETS. 

Cats and dogs, when kept in the house, must sooner or 
later become diseased. They will be affected with tuber- 
culosis, if nothing else. While these animals are very ac- 
ceptable companions of children in their outdoor life and 
play, they are questionable as household pets. Diphtheria 
and scarlet fever are charged up as being communicated by 
these animals also tuberculosis, while there are several 
forms of parasites common worms which infest the in- 
testines of man and which are frequently secured from these 
animals. Especially is it dangerous to allow children or 
adults for that matter to pet these animals while at table 
eating. If you touch the domestic pets at meal time, or if 






HYGIENE AND SANITATION 337 

the dog or cat licks your hand at the table, go and wash be- 
fore continuing the meal. The eggs of various intestinal 
worms are frequently taken into the body in this way. 

Mad dogs carry the organisms and poisons of hydrophobia. 
The public is becoming aroused to sense the grave dangers of 
this disease, and the stray dog on the city streets is destined 
soon to be regulated out of existence. But it may be of 
interest in this connection to call attention to the fact that 
there is very little more of hydrophobia and mad dogs during 
the so-called " dog days " than at any other season of the 
year. When bitten by a dog or any other animal, go at once 
to a physician and have the wound treated. Keep the 
animal under observation don't shoot it and if it ex- 
hibits symptoms of the disease, kill it and take the patient 
at once to the nearest Pasteur Institute for treatment. 

CARELESS SPITTING AND TUBERCULOSIS 

Physicians no longer look upon tuberculosis as an incur- 
able disease. We now know that fresh air, sunshine, and 
careful feeding, together with cold baths and graduated 
exercise, are able to restore the majority of cases of early 
tuberculosis back to health. The public should understand 
that the same methods which cure tuberculosis will prevent 
it. From earliest infancy to old age, the hygiene of the lungs 
and skin should be studied with a view to maintaining their 
healthy activity and thus preventing consumption. 

It should be remembered that consumption is responsible 
for more deaths than almost any other two diseases. Of the 
ten great causes of death tuberculosis, pneumonia, nervous 
diseases, heart diseases, bladder diseases, digestive diseases, 
accidents, cancer, typhoid fever, and suicide tuberculosis 
is the greatest of all. Yellow fever is regarded as a great 
scourge, yet during the last one hundred and fifteen years the 
deaths from yellow fever in the United States have been only 
100,000, while last year (1909) there were 150,000 deaths 
from tuberculosis in the United States. 

Tuberculosis is the most universal disease-scourge of the 
human race. It is never inherited. It is produced by the- 



338 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

tubercle germ ard is taken into the body through the air 
we breathe or the food we eat. It may be secured from the 
poison-laden air of the foul dwelling or crowded city tene- 
ment. Intestinal tuberculosis, it is believed, can be con- 
tracted from drinking the milk and eating the flesh of animals 
having tuberculosis. It is a preventable disease and, if taken 
in time, can be cured. 

Houses become infected with tuberculosis. We have 
known of a family of six children to be stricken down with 
tuberculosis, having all taken it from an afflicted mother. 
Never move into a strange house without thoroughly fumi- 
gating the premises. 

If you have consumption, do not give it to others by your 
careless spitting. Carry around a destructible pasteboard 
box into which you can spit, and afterwards burn it. In 
the cities we have lung blocks and lung sections where we 
expect a large number of deaths from tuberculosis. 

Those afflicted with tuberculosis should early seek the 
advice of a competent physician should prepare to go at 
once to a tuberculosis tent-colony, or otherwise live out of 
doors. It matters not what climate you live in, provided you 
live out of doors and get fresh air and sunshine. Cold air 
is just as good as warm air. Tuberculosis patients do well 
in the northern latitudes even during winter. They do just 
as well, under proper medical care, at home as in the sani- 
tarium. 

Tuberculosis is primarily due to lowered vitality and the 
indoor life, but indirectly it is a disease resulting largely 
from careless spitting. Let us have more and more stringent 
laws against promiscuous and careless spitting, and let us 
have them impartially enforced. Attention has recently been 
called to the fact that the public telephone may sometimes 
serve to spread tuberculosis germs. 

The following instructions have been prepared to state 
concisely how to prevent and cure consumption, and are well 
worth study. Great good is accomplished by boards of 
health in circulating these instructions: 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 339 

HOW TO PREVENT CONSUMPTION. 

The spit and the small particles coughed up and sneezed 

out by consumptives, and by many who do not know that 

they have consumption, are full of living germs too small to 

be seen. These germs are the cause of consumption. 

DON'T SPIT on sidewalks it spreads disease, and it is against 

the law. 

DON'T SPIT on the floors of your rooms or hallways. 
DON'T SPIT on the floor of your shop. 
WHEN YOU SPIT, spit in the gutters or into a spittoon. Have 

your own spittoons half full of water, and clean them out 

at least once a day with hot water. 
DON'T cough without holding a handkerchief or your hand 

over your mouth. 

DON'T live in rooms where there is no fresh air. 
DON'T work in rooms where there is no fresh air. 
DON'T sleep in rooms where there is no fresh air. 
Keep at least one window open in your bedroom day and night. 
Fresh air helps to kill the consumption germ. 
Fresh air helps to keep you strong and healthy. 
DON'T eat with soiled hands wash them first. 
DON'T NEGLECT A COLD or a cough. 

HOW TO CURE CONSUMPTION 

DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY on patent medicines or advertised 
cures for consumption, but go to a doctor or a dispensary. 
If you go in time YOU CAN BE CURED; if you wait until you 
are so sick that you cannot work any longer, or until you 
are very weak, it may be too late; at any rate it will in the 
end mean more time out of work and more wages lost than 
if you had taken care of yourself at the start. 

DON'T DRINK WHISKEY, beer, or other intoxicating drinks ; they 
will do you no good, but will make it harder for you to get 
well. 

DON'T SLEEP IN THE SAME BED with any one else, and if possi- 
ble, not in the same room. 

GOOD FOOD, FRESH AIR, AND REST are the best cures. Keep in 
the sunshine as much as possible, and KEEP YOUR WINDOWS 
OPEN, winter and summer, night and day fresh air, night 
and day, is good for you. 



340 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

GO TO A HOSPITAL WHILE YOU CAN AND BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE. 

There you can get the best treatment, all the rest, all the 
fresh air, and all the food which you need. 

THE CAREFUL AND CLEAN CONSUMPTIVE IS NOT DANGEROUS TO 
THOSE WITH WHOM HE LIVES AND WORKS. 

It is possible to sleep out of doors, if you cannot work 
out of doors. The head of the single bed can be put out 
of the window, or some form of window tent can be used. 
Hammocks can be strung on the roof of the city tenement 
in summer. Beds can be placed on the porches. There is 
no excuse for not sleeping out of doors. (Fig. 42.) 

DISINFECTANTS AND DEODORANTS 

Deodorants are substances which destroy odor and cause 
the premises to smell sweet, but they are not necessarily 
disinfectants; that is, they may not kill germs. Disinfect- 
ants proper are substances which have power to kill germs. 
Heat, fire, and sunlight are Nature's disinfectants. Chloride 
of lime and copper sulphate are good disinfectants to sprinkle 
about cellars, closets, and other places where it is desired 
both to di3infect and deodorize. Formaldehyde gas produced 
by special generators, or by the burning of formaldehyde 
candles, is used as a disinfectant after contagious diseases, 
or formaldehyde sheets may be hung about the rooms. The 
burning of sulphur, after effectively stopping up all means 
of air escaping from the room, is also an efficient means of 
disinfecting. For disinfecting sheets and other linen in in- 
fectious diseases, it is well to put them in a weak solution 
of carbolic acid before sending them to the laundry. Bi- 
chloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate) is used as a gen- 
eral disinfectant in strength of from I to 1,000 down to i 
to 5,000. 

Disinfection of excreta. Corrosive sublimate is not a 
good disinfectant for bowel discharges. These are best dis- 
infected by solutions of carbolic acid and chloride of lime. 
The excreta should be mixed with equal quantities of this 
disinfectant solution and allowed to stand several hours 
before it is disposed of. Nurses and others engaged in the 





Tenf 




Cross section 
of Win daw Tenf. 



Fl G . 4 2. .~ Ha w fa 5/eep out of doors. 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 341 

care of typhoid and other contagious diseases, should fre- 
quently disinfect their hands. 

QUARANTINE AND ISOLATION 

It is amazing how intelligent people will disregard and 
evade the quarantine regulations of the health officers. 
The time has certainly arrived when civilized nations should 
take contagious diseases seriously. The Board of Health 
regulations are for the good of both the individual and the 
community. In all these matters the layman should give 
earnest and conscientious heed to the instructions of the 
attending physician and the health officer, and in this way 
lessen the spread of disease and lower the death rate of the 
community. It is a duty we owe to ourselves and our 
neighbors, to lessen in every way possible the occurrence of 
disease, whether it be the contagious diseases, the rickets 
of the child due to improper feeding, the scurvy of the 
sailor deprived of fresh food, or the consumption that re- 
sults from bad air, dust, and careless spitting. 

THE DELUSION OF DRUGS. 

Alcohol and many other drugs, instead of being a pre- 
ventive or a cure of disease, are in themselves a direct cause 
of disease. The majority of these drugs expend the vital 
energy, but in no way contribute to the production of vital 
strength, and this is the great difference between drugs and 
foods. 

Alcohol and drugs give rise to sensations which are not 
real. Their strength is deceptive. They make one feel 
stronger when one is weaker ; they cause one to feel warmer 
when one is cooler. They aggravate the vast majority of 
diseases for which they are taken as a cure. It is one of the 
laws of living things that the excretions of any living 
organism are more or less poisonous to all creatures higher 
than itself in the scale of life. This is true of alcohol. It 
is an excretion of little vegetable organisms the common 
yeast plant, and it proves to be poisonous to everything above 
it in the scale of life, and that embraces the entire animal 



342 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

creation. One part of alcohol in 1,000 parts of water, will 
even kill a plant if watered with it, while ten parts of alcohol 
in 1,000 parts of water will kill a fish. 

We have spoken elsewhere of alcohol as a food, but here 
briefly call attention to the fact that the quantity of flour 
that will rest on the point of a knife, contains as much 
nourishment as ten quarts of beer. It is true that some 
alcohol may be burned in the body, as may ether and 
chloroform, and many other poisons, but it is not assimilated 
by the body. It is in no way treated as a real food; on the 
other hand, it produces degeneration of practically all the 
body tissues. It has the effect of hardening the brain and 
arteries and lessening the thinking power in fact, two 
ounces of whiskey necessitates that a man should take twice 
his ordinary time to think or to execute a muscular movement. 

Alcohol congests the stomach, leading to ulcer and de- 
struction of living tissues. It causes the little nerve proc- 
esses in the brain cells to retract, and this lessens the mental 
processes, although it is true that during the early stage of 
alcoholic intoxication, mental processes seem to be increased 
and there is a great and steady flow of language. This is 
only the first effect of this narcotic drug; later effects are 
more depressing. When long used, it leads even to insanity. 
Alcohol is now regarded as one of the greatest predisposing 
causes of consumption. Its use shortens life. One-half of 
all the idiots in the asylums in this country are found to 
come from drunken parents. Fifty per cent of criminals 
and eighty per cent of prostitutes likewise have alcoholic 
parentage. Physicians are coming to use less and less al- 
cohol in the practice of medicine. In many diseases such 
as typhoid fever and pneumonia, where alcohol was com- 
monly used in past years, it has now almost passed out of 
existence as a remedy. 

Alcohol, therefore, can claim no real place as a food upon 
our tables, and is not entitled to the dignity of being called 
a beverage. It should be regarded as a poisonous drug, its 
sale permitted only upon prescription, and its use limited to 
medical practice. 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 343 

The influence of alcohol upon the individual and upon 
society may be summed up as follows: 

1. Those who buy alcohol spend their money for that 
which is not food, but they do not get a harmless substance 
they get an active poison. 

2. Leading scientific authorities unite in pronouncing 
alcohol a narcotic poison and not a food. 

3. Alcohol is a deceiver. It is a nerve-fooler. It makes 
a man feel warm when he is cold. It makes him feel strong 
when he is weak. It makes him feel rich when he is poor. 
It makes him feel happy when he may have every cause for 
the most heartfelt grief and sadness. 

4. It is a reason-robber. Its devotees lose their discretion 
and judgment. 

5. It is a money-destroyer. Its use lies at the bottom of 
many a financial wreck. 

6. It is a home-breaker. Alcohol is probably responsible 
for more blasted homes than any other single agency. 

7. It is a mind-destroyer. It occupies a prominent place 
among the first causes of insanity, in the statistics fur- 
nished by our asylums. 

8. It is a conscience-destroyer. Those who long continue 
its use in large quantities find their consciences benumbed. 
Their higher sensibilities and spiritual perceptions are de- 
stroyed. 

9. It is a poverty-producer. Drink is not only the re- 
sult of poverty, but the use of alcohol tends forever to im- 
poverish. 

10. It is a crime-generator. Much crime is committed 
that the criminal may obtain alcohol, or else he is led by 
his criminal impulses while under its influence. 

11. It is the handmaiden of vice. The vicious elements 
and immoral practices of our great cities are inseparably 
linked with the liquor traffic and the use of alcohol. 

12. The good feeling it gives you to-day is upon the price 
of placing a mortgage upon your after-health and strength. 

Tobacco is another of the narcotic drugs, and its use leads 
directly to disease. Its sale should be regulated by law, and 



344 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

under no circumstances should minors be allowed to use it. 
It should be treated as a drug, the same as morphine and 
cocaine. To say the least, vigorous anti-cigarette laws 
should be passed by each State preventing the sale of this 
poisonous drug to youth of tender age. 

Tea and coffee are other narcotic drugs containing from 
3 per cent to 6 per cent of a poisonous principle. About 
a billion pounds a year of these substances are used, con- 
taining 15,000 tons of poisons. A 40 to 6o-grain dose of 
these narcotics might even prove fatal to many individuals. 
Each year the American people consume 8 billion to 10 
billion doses of caffeine and theine, or almost enough to 
cripple or kill the whole world, if given at a single dose. 

The effect of the continuous use of these drugs is shown 
on the complexion and also manifests itself as headache, 
nervousness, sleeplessness, and the development of that 
peculiar experience which accompanies all drugs, but does 
not attach itself to the use of foods; that is, that the in- 
dividual using them gets to the place where he " just can't 
do without it." Experiments have been made where it is 
shown that as small a dose as three grains of caffeine greatly 
impairs the digestion. 

PATENT MEDICINES, 

In the battle for the prevention of disease, an unceasing 
war must be waged upon patent nostrums. Under no cir- 
cumstances, allow yourself to take a medicine of whose com- 
position you know nothing. Don't take drugs unless 
they are prescribed by a competent physician. Reputable 
men of science do not tolerate secret formulas or medicines 
of unknown composition. Have nothing to do with the 
nostrums of the almanac or the advertised remedies of news- 
papers and magazines. When in need of medical attention, 
employ a physician and not a druggist to prescribe for you. 

The battle against disease must be won by conscientious 
attention to the laws of hygiene, faithful obedience to the 
rules of life, careful avoidance of all the known causes of 
disease, and promptly seeking the advice of your physician at 



HYGIENE AND SANITATION 345 

all times when the body fails to perform its normal functions, 
or you are apparently threatened with affliction. 

THE CITY SLUMS, 

Much as we dislike to call attention to the conditions of 
vice and immorality existing in the slums of our great cities, 
nevertheless, we would not feel clear in closing this chapter 
on the Transmission of Disease without calling attention to 
the sweat-shops and hovels of our large cities as dissem- 
inators of disease. Many of these places are unspeakably 
filthy consumptive operators expectorating on the floor 
the same floor on which clothing and half-finished garments 
will subsequently be piled. The arrangements of many of 
these shops, especially the home sweat-shops, are utterly un- 
sanitary, and whatever the diseased conditions under which 
the clothing is finished, it is certain, never having been 
fumigated or disinfected, that the subsequent buyers are ex- 
posed to these influences. And who knows how many 
mysterious cases of fatal disease among the children 
diphtheria, scarlet fever, or what not, might have been 
directly traced back to the sweat-shop and shown to have 
been secured from infected clothing made or worked upon 
in these miserable hovels and subsequently sold in the 
fashionable marts of our great cities. 

Another matter connected with the slums, which is little 
mentioned by either physicians or educators at present, but 
upon which we can no longer keep silent, is the spread of 
social disease what we have already alluded to as the 
"Great Black Plague"; for these diseases of immorality 
annually claim a death toll as great or greater than that of 
tuberculosis, the Great White Plague. Medical authorities 
estimate that from 3,000,000 to 5,000,000 people are suffering 
from these diseases, in one form or another in the United 
States, as the result of their infection in the hovels of vice 
harbored in the city slums. 

One of these diseases of sin spreads itself by 50,000 new 
infections each year in New York City alone, while 80 per 
cent of all male adults in the United States have been at 



346 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

some time infected with disease as the result of the mainte- 
nance of these horrible plague spots in the centres of our 
civilization. A physician and surgeon is compelled to 
recognize the terrible consequences of sin as they are spread 
broadcast through these agencies of the city slums. Medical 
authorities have estimated that from 50 to 65 per cent of 
major surgical operations upon women are necessitated, 
directly or indirectly, by the widespread infection of in- 
nocent persons by means of these unspeakable diseases of 
the vice of the slums. 

In some European cities the slums have literally placed 
their brand upon from one-half to one-seventh of the entire 
population; while New York City is estimated at the pres- 
ent time to have one-fifteenth of its population scarred 
by these loathsome maladies. Last, but not least, intelligent 
people thinking men and women must face the fact that 
of the 800,000 boys who reach maturity each year in the 
United States, fully 500,000 a half-million as a result 
of inadequate education and preventive training, are led to 
plunge themselves into this moral sewer of the city's slums, 
and of this 500,000 the flower of our flock about 400,- 
ooo annually contract one of these terrible diseases of social 
sin, which are perpetuated and transmitted largely through 
the agency of the vice and sin of the slum. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

HEALTH HINTS 

THE NATURAL LIFE IN A NUT-SHELL. 
A BIRD'S-EYE VIEW OF THE LAWS OF HEALTH. 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES. SUNLIGHT. FRESH AIR. DEEP BREATH- 
ING. MUSCULAR EXERCISE. SENSIBLE CLOTHING. THE ART OF 
EATING. PURE WATER DRINKING. REGULAR BATHING. HlGH- 
PRESSURE LIVING. MENTAL REST AND RECREATION. THE PRE- 
VENTION OF DISEASE. 

I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

1. " Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap," 
is just as true of the body as it is of the soul. 

2. Science is rapidly achieving the conquest of all "germ 
diseases/' while the " habit diseases," due to personal prac- 
tices and habits, are alarmingly on the increase. 

3. Nature alone can cure disease. Doctors cannot heal. 
They can only direct the sufferer back to the pathways of 
health. Nature alone can create, and healing is re-creation. 

4. Sensations of fatigue and pain are friendly voices of 
warning. They are the body's conscience. We should 
heed their messages and not silence their prayer by stimu- 
lants, narcotics, and pain killers. 

5. We enjoy health when the body works under natural 
and normal conditions. The same laws of life produce dis- 
ease when the body is compelled to do its work under 
unnatural and abnormal conditions. 

6. It should be remembered that the human body is a 
great commonwealth. These tiny little creatures called 
cells, numbering more than twenty-six trillions, are de- 
pendent upon man's common sense and judgment for their 
life and health. 

347 



348 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

7. Unperverted instincts and natural appetites would 
prove to be safe and unerring guides in choosing the way 
of life, but the civilized man, through physical disobedience 
and artificial living, has grossly perverted his natural in- 
stincts largely lost his " horse-sense." 

8. Some persons have inherited such vast riches of phys- 
ical wealth that they are able to live a long time as hygienic 
spendthrifts with but little personal suffering. The result 
of their careless living usually appears in the lives of their 
sickly offspring. " The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and 
the children's teeth are set on edge." 

II. SUNLIGHT 

1. Sunshine is essential to animal life and growth. 

2. The daily sun bath, properly taken, would restore many 
semi-invalids back to health. 

3. Sunshine is the best known disinfectant. It should be 
freely admitted to every human dwelling place. 

4. Human dwellings should be full of windows. The 
house should be daily flushed with light and sterilized with 
sunshine. 

5. It is a crime against the rising generation to have 
the nursery located anywhere except on the sunny side of 
the house. 

6. The direct rays of sunlight are almost instantaneously 
fatal to tuberculosis germs and the vast majority of other 
disease microbes. 

7. The vital resistance of the human body is greatly in- 
fluenced by the number of hours one spends each day in the 
sunshine of the open air. 

8. Sunshine is the fountain of all earthly energy and the 
direct source of plant growth. Plants can only build up 
food substances .under the influence of light. 

III. FRESH AIR 

i. Man is an outdoor animal. He was made to live in a 
garden, not a house. 



HEALTH HINTS 349 

2. Remember that each person requires one cubic foot 
of fresh air every second. 

3. Remember that sleeping outdoors is a preventive, as well 
as a cure, for tuberculosis. 

4. Foul air is the curse of our modern manufacturing 
establishments and work shops. 

5. Agitate against the atrocious ventilation of churches, 
audience rooms, and other public buildings. 

6. If you work indoors, remember that you can't ven- 
tilate your lungs unless you ventilate the house. 

7. Don't allow the temperature of living rooms, during 
the winter season, to go above sixty-eight degrees F. 

8. See that school children have fresh air and sunshine. 
Much of the stunting effects of the city schools is due to 
poor ventilation. 

9. The vital resistance of an individual, a family, or a 
race of people, is in exact inverse ratio to the number of 
years they have been away from the soil. 

10. If your home has no system of ventilation, open wide 
the windows and doors several times a day and enjoy the 
blessings of a thorough-going air flushing. 

11. Oxygen is the vital fire of life. Our food, however 
well digested and assimilated, is just as useless to the body 
without oxygen, as coal is to the furnace without air. 

12. Consumption (tuberculosis), pneumonia, bronchitis, 
pleurisy and catarrh are house diseases. Neither man nor 
any other animal contracts these diseases when living alto- 
gether out-of-doors. 

13. Bedroom climate is responsible for many common 
maladies. If you cannot work outdoors, sleep outdoors, 
or as near to it as possible. Boost the fashion of outdoor 
bedrooms and sleeping porches. 

IV. DEEP BREATHING 

1. Deep breathing promotes brain circulation and in- 
creases mental activity. 

2. Deep breathing aids digestion, prevents dyspepsia, and 
favors healthy liver action. 



350 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

3. Natural breathing, like that of the infant, results in 
expansion of both the chest and the abdomen. 

4. Oxygen is nature's tonic. Outdoor breathing is the 
best possible tonic prescription for indoor invalids. 

5. A flat chest indicates weak lungs, decreased physical 
efficiency, and, not infrequently, curvature of the spine. 

6. Deep breathing empties the portal vessels of the ab- 
domen, the congestion of which is the chief cause of the 
" blues." 

7. It is written that the breath of life was breathed into 
man's nostrils, not his mouth. Mouth breathing is either 
a cause or a result of disease. 

8. Despondent people are always shallow breathers. Bad 
breathing and worry go together. Getting rid of one 
usually helps in overcoming the other. 

9. Shallow breathing beclouds the mind by causing a 
retention of blood poisons, thereby placing heavy and un- 
necessary burdens upon the moral nature. 

10. Oxygen is so indispensable to life, that while we can 
live by eating only two or three times a day, we are com- 
pelled to take " air lunches " twenty times a minute. 

11. The lungs are nature's blood-purifiers. In the place 
of taking patent medicines, eat good food, drink pure water, 
ventilate the house, go outdoors, and breathe deeply. 

12. Remember that it is just as important to have fresh 
air at night and proper ventilation in the winter, as at other 
times. Night air is just as pure or a little more so, than 
day air. 

13. Every cell of the body must breathe for itself. But 
these countless millions of little creatures are suffocated 
if the living and working rooms are not fully and properly 
ventilated. 

14. Superficial breathing decreases the elimination of the 
poisonous gases of the blood, thereby slowly, but none the 
less surely, exposing every cell of the body to poisonous 
influences. 

15. Natural breathing is both a preventive and a cure 
for many forms of constipation 1 , as the diaphragm exerts 



HEALTH HINTS 351 

a downward pressure on the stomach and bowels of about 
two hundred pounds. 

16. The blood is purified and its circulation quietened 
by deep breathing. The blood is the vital stream that turns 
the wheels of life, and should contain more, by weight, of 
oxygen than it does of digested food. 

17. Use the diaphragm in breathing. Don't breathe 
merely with the top of the chest like a woman wearing a 
tight corset. Let the diaphragm move up and down so as 
to thoroughly ventilate the bottom of the lungs. 

18. The value of the outdoor life is entirely dependent 
upon the intake of oxygen. It does no more good to go 
outdoors without deep breathing, than it would when hun- 
gry to go to the dining table and refuse to eat. 

V. MUSCULAR EXERCISE 

1. Body work is indispensable to 'first-class brain work. 

2. Muscular exercise promotes complete and regular 
movements of the bowels. 

3. A daily sweat is good for your health and religion, as 
well as your daily prayer. 

4. Exercise is better for the health if it is regular, use- 
ful, pleasant, and agreeable. 

5. Systematic physical exercise is absolutely essential to 
good circulation and sound digestion. 

6. Man is a working machine. The study of anatomy 
suggests that he was never made to sit down. 

7. Indian clubs, Delsarte, etc., are good exercises for 
young girls, semi-invalids, and for the cultivation of grace. 

8. Exercise should be systematic and symmetric; not ex- 
cessive, but moderate. Do not begin what you cannot keep 
up. 

9. The proper resting position for man is the reclining 
posture. Many diseases and deformities result from chair 
abuses. 

10. You owe it to yourself to learn how to stand, sit, and 
walk properly, and also how to climb stairs in a healthful 
manner. 



352 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

11. Man has a mental, moral, and social life to cultivate. 
He should not spend all his time on the body "oiling the 
machine." 

12. Physical exercise destroys body poisons and thus di- 
rectly favors mental activity and indirectly lessens the 
moral struggle. 

13. Going up and down stairs one hundred and fifty times 
a day is equivalent to walking six miles, and is good exer- 
cise if properly performed. 

14. Regular, light, and useful exercise is far superior to 
modern athletics, which are greatly overdone and some- 
times highly injurious. 

15. The ideal exercise is walking outdoors, five or six 
miles a day, the arms swinging freely while every muscle 
is vigorously energized. 

16. Physical exercise is a sure producer of deep breath- 
ing. (The average man breathes only one-half his capac- 
ity, the average woman but one-fourth.) 

17. In exercising for health, it is the heavy movements 
that count. Self-resistive exercises are excellent, as you 
are working against your own muscles and not against dead 
weight. 

VI. SENSIBLE CLOTHING 

1. Hats and other headdress should be light and airy. 

2. Thin-soled shoes are dangerous in damp and cold 
weather. 

3. Avoid water-proof clothing and water-proof shoes as 
far as possible. They are unhealthful. 

4. For outer garments, wool is the best for winter, while 
cotton serves best in the summer. 

5. The bedclothing should be as light as possible, con- 
sistent with warmth and protection. 

6. In winter, clothe the extremities well. This applies 
with special force to young girls and women. 

7. The primary purposes of clothing are those of pro- 
tection and modesty, not adornment and display. 



HEALTH HINTS 353 

8. Many of the so-called " female complaints " are due 
wholly or partially, to the results of corset wearing. 

9. The best material for underclothing is linen mesh with 
cotton next. Wool is undesirable for underclothing. 

10. The most comfortable summer clothes are those of 
light color and loose weave, with a very thin dark lining. 

11. During the winter, look out for overclothing the 
body. Use furs with discretion. Clothe the body evenly 
and symmetrically. 

12. Heavy skirts and other garments should not be sus- 
pended from the hips, but should be properly supported 
from the shoulders. 

13. Clothing should be physiologic and anatomic, that 
is, the clothes should be made to fit the body and not the 
body to fit the clothes. 

14. It should be remembered that the young girl breathes 
in a natural, normal manner, just as her brother does, be- 
fore she wears corsets. 

15. The corsets worn by women and the tight belts by 
men, interfere with natural and normal breathing and 
weaken the abdominal muscles. 

16. Constrictions of the waist, as by the modern corset, 
favor liver and gall-stone disorders, together with stomach 
trouble, constipation, and many other serious diseases. 

VII. THE ART OF EATING 

1. How we eat is equally important with what we eat. 

2. Avoid extremes of temperature in eating and drink- 
ing. 

3. Eat some fresh, raw food daily, such as fruits, vege- 
tables, nuts, or dried fruits. 

4. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Alcohol accomplishes no 
good thing for the healthy body. 

5. Thorough mastication all things being equal is 
the great secret of good digestion. 

6. The best of foods are injurious when overeaten, or 
when wrongly combined with other foods. 

23 



354 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

7. The prompt elimination of the waste products of the 
body is equally important with good digestion. 

8. Look out for soft, fresh, doughy breads, batter cakes, 
and half-cooked pastries. They are breeders of dyspepsia. 

9. Exercise every precaution to get pure, wholesome, un- 
adulterated foods. Tainted foods are worse than tainted 
money. 

10. The more simple one's diet, the less the craving of the 
nervous system for unnatural foods and harmful stimu- 
lants. 

11. Avoid excess of both sugar and salt. In moderate 
quantities they are harmless, but when overeaten they are 
injurious. 

12. It is quite impossible to have peace in the head and 
war in the stomach. Coarse eating and fine thinking are 
incompatible. 

13. Cultivate a liking for hard foods which have to be 
masticated. Don't undertake to live upon mushes, soups, and 
other liquid foods. 

14. Remember that the original diet of primitive man 
consisted largely of those things which grow out of the 
earth and upon trees. 

15. Look out for tea and coffee. They are stimulants, 
they are not foods. Their only nourishing property is the 
sugar and milk added. 

16. Remember that overeating of protein produces far 
more serious results in the body than does the overeating 
of other food elements. 

17. Remember that food is useless to the body until it is 
digested and assimilated. Good digestion is just as essential 
to health as good food. 

18. Remember that digestion is powerfully influenced by 
the mental state. Keep the mind cheerful and hopeful dur- 
ing, and just after, the meal hour. 

19. The cook stove is of great value in cooking cereals, 
but it is overworked and much abused. Most fruits, vege- 
tables, and nuts are better eaten raw. 

20. Most people do better without drinking at meals. 



HEALTH HINTS 355 

Even those with strong stomachs will find it best not to take 
over one glass of water at meal-time. 

21. Engineers know how to feed their furnaces better, and 
farmers know how to feed their cattle better, than the aver- 
age man knows how to feed his own body. 

22. Eat natural foods, cultivate your taste, and the ap- 
petite will in time become a fairly reliable guide as to when 
to eat, what to eat, and how to eat. 

23. The American people eat too much meat. That is, 
they take too much protein. Other foods containing pro- 
tein are cheese, eggs, beans, and most nuts. 

24. Remember that decayed meats are much more dan- 
gerous and poisonous than decayed vegetables. Milk is 
especially subject to deterioration and contamination. 

25. Apply the eight-hour rule to the stomach and it will 
seldom strike. That is, allow eight hours between regular 
meals, and put nothing into the stomach between meals. 

26. Study foods and learn how properly to balance your 
daily ration. The average man requires about two thou- 
sand calories a day. Consult the food tables and find out 
how much you are eating. 

27. A good appetite ordinarily equals a good digestion. 
If the appetite is poor, make such changes in your habits 
as will enable you to earn a good one. A good appetite 
equals good digestive juices. 

28. Remember that you have an intellect. Man is sup- 
posed to be an intelligent animal. His appetite, therefore, 
should at all times be under the watchcare of enlightened 
reason and scientific judgment. 

29. Multiplicity of dishes and bad food combinations pro- 
duce dyspepsia. Eat but two or three articles of food at a 
single meal. Avoid the use of many modern concoctions 
and desserts served under fancy names. 

30. If you are not engaged in hard physical labor, don't 
eat much when you are not hungry. Wait a few hours, or 
until the next day, when you will have a better appetite. 
This is a safe rule for all people in ordinary health. 

31. Remember that most people eat too much and eat 



356 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

too often. That " all-gone feeling " in the region of the 
stomach is the cry of nature for oxygen or water, not for 
food. Two meals a day are better for some people than 
three. 

32. Avoid highly preserved and highly seasoned dishes, 
pickles, cheese, and the stronger condiments such as mus- 
tard, pepper, and vinegar in fact, look with disfavor upon 
anything that is hot when it is cold. Use lemon-juice in 
the place of vinegar. Whatever braces a food against de- 
cay, also braces it against digestion. 

VIII. PURE WATER DRINKING 

1. Fresh fruit juices and lemonade are good beverages, 
wholesome and healthful. 

2. Don't forget to give to ordinary fever patients all the 
cold water they want to drink. 

3. Remember that the internal bath of the body is just 
as necessary and essential as the external bath. 

4. Most filters are a snare and a delusion, and freezing 
water does not necessarily destroy disease germs. 

5. Drink at any time except just before meals and two 
hours after meals. It is not best to drink during meals. 

6. Pure, natural, soft water, or artificially distilled water, 
is the ideal beverage. Boil all suspected drinking water. 

7. Cultivate a regular water-drinking habit. Most sed- 
entary people drink about one-fourth the water they ought 
to. 

8. Pure water is the best. Mineral water is a delusion. 
If you are going to take medicated water, have your doctor 
prescribe it. 

9. Examine the source of your drinking water as care- 
fully as you do the source of your food supply. Look out 
for contaminated water. 

10. Tea, coffee, soft drinks, etc. (lemonade excepted), 
are only adulterated water. They do not take the place of 
the genuine Adam's ale. 

11. All the activities of cell life are carried on under 



HEALTH HINTS 357 

water. Water is indispensable to every nutritional change. 
Life cannot exist without water. 

12. The daily intake of water should equal the daily out- 
go. The minimum requirement according to this rule, for 
sedentary persons, is about eight glasses a day. 

IX. REGULAR BATHING 

1. Cleanse the mouth and teeth on arising and after each 
meal. 

2. Bathing and swimming should not be indulged in just 
before or after eating. 

3. The neutral bath (ninety-seven degrees) is excellent 
to quiet the nerves and induce sleep. 

4. For persons who are fairly strong, the cold morning 
bath is an excellent preventive of colds. 

5. The neglect of regular bathing results in overwork- 
ing the liver and kidneys, and debilitates the skin. 

6. Hot baths are weakening and debilitating unless they 
are finished off with short applications of cold water. 

7. Regular bathing is not a luxury, it is a necessity. The 
skin should be cleansed by a warm soap bath twice a week. 

8. Most people will get better results from cold baths if 
they are taken in a warm room and immediately followed by 
physical exercise. 

9. Bathing is made necessary by the clothes we wear and 
by the indoor life. If the skin were daily exposed to sun- 
shine and fresh air, it would seldom be necessary to bathe. 

10. The effects of short, cold baths are natural. This 
same kind of reaction would be spontaneous in the healthy 
skin exposed to the air. Baths are simply an antidote for 
the wearing of clothes. 

X. HIGH-PRESSURE LIVING 

1. Blood-making foods and drinks are a delusion. All 
good foods when well digested make good blood. 

2. Modern strenuous living of the civilized nations is 



358 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

greatly raising the blood-pressure and thereby predisposing 
to disease. 

3. Remember that while alcohol, morphine, and bromide 
compounds temporarily lower the blood-pressure, they are 
false friends. 

4. Remember that the defences of the body against 
disease are greatly increased by leading the natural life, 

the simple life. 

5. The results of the high-pressure life are hardening of 
the arteries, apoplexy, Bright's disease, heart failure, and 
nervous exhaustion. 

6. High blood-pressure has more to do with disease and 
old age than hard arteries. A man is as old as his arteries 
are hard and his blood-pressure is permanently raised. 

7. Increasing rise in blood-pressure means one of two 
things : the valves of the heart will give way heart failure 

or a blood-vessel will burst apoplexy and paralysis. 

8. The germ-destroying power of the white blood cells 
is greatly increased by short, cold baths and by alkalinizing 
the blood-stream, as in the liberal use of fresh fruit 
juices. 

9. The body possesses inherent and automatic powers of 
resistance against disease. It is our duty to study how to 
cooperate with nature in this struggle for the maintenance 
of health. 

10. Remember that the liver is the filter and furnace of 
the body for detecting and destroying poisons. Do not 
render it useless by overeating and intemperate indul- 
gence. 

JOT/ rron*i/:o:i u, hnu4 -. 

n. Remember that the blood-pressure is raised by co- 
caine, tobacco, tea, coffee, strong condiments, flesh foods, as 
well as by constipation, worry, anxiety, and other morbid 
states including moral condemnation. 

12. Nearly all body fluids are germicidal in their action 
when natural. The white blood cells devour disease germs 
when the blood is alkaline. When the blood is acid or 
toxic these white cells may devour the body cells instead. 



HEALTH HINTS 359 

13. The following habits and influences tend to lower 
blood-pressure or prevent its rise: Exercise, short cold 
baths, tepid baths, rest, sleep, dietetic simplicity, self-con- 
trol, optimism, a happy disposition, faith, and a clear con- 
science. 

14. The white blood cells constitute the body's standing 
army for the resistance of infectious diseases. Remember 
that the function of the cells is perverted and destroyed by 
alcohol, morphine, quinine, and many other drugs, as well 
as by the poisons of dyspepsia, and constipation absorbed 
from the bowel. 

XI. MENTAL REST AND RECREATION 

1. Don't take drugs for worry and sleeplessness. Take a 
bath. 

2. The American people sleep too little and eat too 
much. 

3. Regular rest is essential to the health of mind and 
body. 

4. Make your weekly Sabbath just as complete a day of 
rest as possible. 

5. Don't forget the Golden Rule. It is good for the 
health of the whole man. 

6. Cultivate the art of living with yourself as you are, 
and with the world as it is. 

7. Remember that worry about business, social or in- 
dustrial affairs can never help. It may make matters worse. 

8. The secret of deliverance from worrying is self-con- 
trol. Minimize your difficulties. Cultivate faith and 
trust. 

9. It is a great mistake to fight sleeplessness with drugs. 
In the end the drugs themselves will produce more in- 
somnia. 

10. The average man requires eight hours of sound sleep 
every night. Some appear to do well upon a little less, 
while others require a trifle more. 



360 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

11. Remember that worry will not disappear of itself. 
You must actively combat it. Don't make the mistake of 
worrying because you have worried. 

12. Shun worry and all its mental cousins as you would 
flee from the smallpox. There is no trouble, however se- 
rious, worrying over which will do any good. 

13. Take a half day off in the middle of the week if you 
can get it. Spend it in wholesome recreation, in the cul- 
tivation of health, and in making other people happier. 

14. To rob oneself of sleep is simply putting a mortgage 
on future health and happiness. Nature is sure to fore- 
close it and you will be required to pay compound in- 
terest. 

15. If you have physical causes of worry, remove them by 
due attention to the bodily state. If the mind is worried, 
dispel your fears. If the soul is harassed, get right with 
your Maker. 

16. The conditions which favor sound sleep are: quiet, 
mental peace, pure blood, good digestion, fresh air, the 
colder the better, an empty stomach, physical weariness 
but not fatigue, mental weariness but not worry. 

17. Do not fail to have periods of simple, natural, and 
wholesome recreation. We do not refer to exciting, un- 
natural entertainment, in some building poorly ventilated. 
We refer to close and intimate communion with nature. 

18. The physiologic resting posture is with the body re- 
cumbent, resting upon either side, perhaps slightly inclined 
toward the abdomen. The emptying of the stomach, if one 
has eaten at a late hour, and the action of the heart, are 
favored by sleeping on the right side. There are numerous 
reasons for not sleeping on the back. 

19. Waking up tired in the morning after having slept 
all night is significant and means one or more of four 
things': 

a. Autointoxication, that is, self-poisoning from the ac- 
cumulation of body poisons in the blood-stream. 

b. Nervous exhaustion, a physical condition verging 



HEALTH HINTS 361 

toward the borderland of brain fag or nervous prostra- 
tion. 

c. Habitual worry, despondency or some other mental at- 
titude of fear and grief. Remember, sleep is an antidote 
for work, but not for worry. 

d. Certain other nervous diseases which need not be here 
enumerated, as they require medical attention. 

XII. THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE 

1. Consumption is largely spread by careless spitting. 
Agitate against it. 

2. Avoid using towels and other toilet articles which have 
been used by others. 

3. Remember that the mosquito is the means of spreading 
both malaria and yellow fever. 

4. Next to germs themselves, the great cause of disease 
is unsanitary surroundings. 

5. Disease is greatly increased by the use of nostrums 
containing alcohol, cocaine, etc. 

6. Look out for dust. House dust is especially danger- 
ous. It is the airship of the microbe. 

7. Remember that typhoid fever, summer diarrhoea, etc., 
come largely from contaminated water and milk. 

8. After every case of suspicious illness, see that the 
furnishings are disinfected and the premises fumigated. 

9. All closets not having sewer connections should be 
carefully screened to prevent flies gaining access thereto. 

10. Children may contract diphtheria, scarlet fever, and 
other diseases from sick cats, dogs, and other domestic 
pets. 

11. Avoid the public drinking cup. It is a carrier of 
disease, and, for the same reason, promiscuous kissing should 
be tabooed. 

12. Fruits and vegetables, when eaten raw, should be 
thoroughly washed to remove the eggs of intestinal worms 
and parasites. 



362 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

13. The slums of the great city, through their vice and 
immorality, are spreading broadcast the dreaded diseases 
of social transgression. 

14. Raw pork is dangerous; it may contain trichinae. 
Rare beef may give you tapeworm, while typhoid fever is 
gotten from raw oysters. 

15. The vast majority of diseases are wholly preventable. 
It lies within the power of man to drive every germ disease 
from the face of the earth. 

16. Rats, fleas, and bedbugs, together with other animal 
parasites, are responsible for carrying many diseases, in- 
cluding the dreaded bubonic plague. 

17. Remember that disease never comes without a cause. 
Most acute diseases are caused by microbes, and the major- 
ity of chronic disorders are caused by wrong habits of 
living. 

18. Always give hearty cooperation to the public health 
officials in carrying out their regulations and quarantine 
requirements. They are working for your good as well as 
that of the community. 

19. Remember that germs are not attracted to the healthy 
man. Health is more contagious than disease. Ordinarily, 
we fall victims to germs only after our vital resistance is 
lowered by physical transgression. 

20. The common household fly is a dangerous disease car- 
rier, engaged in spreading typhoid fever and half a score of 
other diseases. Destroy both the flies and their breeding 
grounds. Keep them out of the house, and especially, away 
from the food. 



AUTHORITIES CONSULTED IN THE PREPARATION 
OF THIS WORK 

In the preparation of the several lectures which preceded 
this book, the author freely consulted the standard medical 
text-books and works on hygiene found in his private li- 
brary as well as those found in the medical libraries of 
Chicago and Washington, D. C. 

In rewriting and arranging these lectures for publication 
and in the preparation of additional matter, the following 
authors, among the large number consulted, deserve special 
mention, as the use of foot notes and the practice of in- 
cluding long direct quotations was thought unadvisable in a 
work of this character. 

Abrams The Blues. 

Bartley Medical Chemistry. 

Baruch Hydrotherapy. 

Bergey Principles of Hygiene. 

Bolduan Food Poisoning. 

Chittenden The Nutrition of Man. 

Cohen System of Physiologic Therapeutics. 

Fletcher A. B. Z. of our own Nutrition. 

Gautier Diet and Dietetics. 

Gray Human Anatomy. 

Huber Text Book of Histology. 

Hutchinson Food and Dietetics. 

Kellogg The Miracle of Life. 

McGlannan Physics and Chemistry. 

Metchnikoff Prolongation of Life. 

Osier Practice of Medicine. 

Parker Biology. 

Pawlow Work of the Digestive Glands. 

Robinson The Abdominal Brain. 

Roger Infectious Diseases. 

363 



364 AUTHORITIES CONSULTED 

Saleeby Worry the Disease of the Age. 

Starling Physiology of Digestion. 

Stewart Manual of Physiology. 

Walton Why Worry? 

Wiley Food Adulteration. 

Willoughby Hygiene for Students. 

Also a large number of monographs, medical papers, re- 
prints, and articles accumulated from periodical literature, 
including the Food Bulletins and Experiments of the De- 
partment of Agriculture of the U. S. Government. 



APPENDIX 



365 



APPENDIX 

IN Chapter IX, devoted to foods, frequent reference was made 
to " Food Tables." These tables, here given, will be easily un- 
derstood and fully comprehended by a study of this explana- 
tion. 

For example, take the second food barley. In one hundred 
parts of barley there is found to be 10.5 per cent of protein. 
The next column is headed " Calories in one ounce, 12.1." In 
other words, the protein (10.5 per cent) in one ounce of barley, 
contains just 12.1 calories. In the next column, barley is found 
to contain 2.4 per cent of fat, while the food calories in the 
fat contained in one ounce are 6.3. That is, the fat in each 
ounce of barley contains just 6.3 calories. And so with starches. 
The ounce of barley would contain 66.7 per cent of starch, while 
this percentage of starch in each ounce of barley would yield 77.3 
calories. 

The salts represent the percentage in 100 parts, and barley 
contains 2.6 per cent. The cellulose, likewise, is parts per cent, 
and barley has 3.8 per cent of cellulose. 

The total nutritive value is secured by adding together all 
these per cents of protein, fat, starch, salts, and cellulose. This 
gives for barley, a total nutritive value of 86.0 per cent. This 
represents the food elements which can be digested in the human 
system except that the cellulose is less than half digested, in 
the neighborhood of 30 per cent. 

The water content is obtained by subtracting the total nu- 
tritive value from one hundred, after the percentage of these 
five food elements is known. The rest of the food is water. 

Under the head of " Starches and Sugars " are included all 
carbohydrate elements ; that is, non-protein elements except fat 
and cellulose. In the case of the cereals and legumes and most 
vegetables, this carbohydrate is found as starch. In the case of 
the ripe fruits and some of the vegetables, it appears as sugar. 
The acids of fruits are also included under this head. 

367 



368 THE SCIENCE OF LIVING 

The total amount of calories or fuel value per ounce is secured 
by adding up, as in the case of barley, the proteid calories, fat 
calories, and starch calories in one ounce of barley. This gives 
the total calories or fuel value of one ounce of barley as 95.7. 
That is, the complete burning of one ounce of barley in the body 
or outside the body, will yield just 95.7 calories, or heat enough 
to raise 95.7 kilograms of water one degree centigrade. 

The proportion of protein to other elements is an important 
item in dietetic study. For instance, if one desires to follow the 
advice in the chapter on Nutrition, and adopt the modern low 
protein diet, he would want, on the whole, to subsist upon foods 
in which the protein value is about i part of protein to 10 of 
the non-protein elements. 

In the estimation of calories, neither salts nor cellulose nor 
water are reckoned. 

The total digestion time of the food tables is the average 
time that food remains in the stomach. This is only relatively 
correct. As pointed out elsewhere, mastication, the strength 
of the digestive juices of the stomach, and the stomach muscle, 
are more or less concerned in shortening or lengthening this 
time. 

In the last column of the food tables may be found the exact 
amount of any raw or cooked food which will yield 100 calories. 
This item is designed to facilitate the computation of bills of 
fare and to make it more easy to arrange special and individual 
diet lists. 

How to ascertain the calories in I ounce of any food when the 
percentage composition is known. 

1. Multiply the protein percentage by 1.16 

2. Multiply the fat percentage by 2.63 

3. Multiply the carbohydrate (sugar, starch and acids) 

percentage by 1.16 

Example: Take the case of barley. The per cent of protein 
is 10.5. This multiplied by 1.16 gives 12.1 calories in i ounce 
of barley. The fat per cent is 2.4. This multiplied by 2.63 
gives 6.3 calories in i ounce. The carbohydrate per cent is 
66.7 This multiplied by 1.16 gives 77.3 calories in i ounce. 
These calories added together protein 12.1, fat 6.3, and car- 
bohydrate 77.3, equal 95.7, the total number of calories in i 
ounce of barley. 



APPENDIX 369 

How to find the percentage value of any food when the cal- 
oric value of its various elements per ounce is known. 

1. Divide the protein calories of I ounce by 1.16 

2. Divide the fat calories of i ounce by 2.63 

3. Divide the carbohydrate calories of i ounce by ... 1.16 

Example: Barley contains 12.1 protein calories in i ounce. 
Divide 12.1 by 1.16, which gives 10.5. The fat calories, 6.3, di- 
vided by 2.63 yields 2.4 per cent for fat. The carbohydrate cal- 
ories, 77.3, divided by 1.16 gives carbohydrate percentage 66.7. 
The total percentage or nutritive value of barley is found by 
adding together these various percentages protein 10.5, fat 2.4, 
carbohydrate 66.7, which, with salts 2.6 and cellulose 3.8, gives 
86.0 per cent as the total nutritive value of barley. 



p y 

SB 

<w 

c/fS 
S P 

3 
>H 
"8 

o 
bo 

B,j 
gg 

55 w 
QS 

IS 

tji 

go 
ft. 

I 

H 
K 



9UIJ 



jo uoijjodojj 



001 Su\ 

-UIEJUO3 

junoaiv 



piuj jo 

S9IJO|BQ 



jo spt[os 



asoi 



sxivg 



STARCHES AND 
SUGARS. 
(Carbohydrates) 



ZOJ9J 



J03D J9J 



JU90 jaj 



zo i 

UI 



zo i 



S8UOJB3 



?093 J3J 



zo i 
a? 



J09D J9J 



ft |ft|??ft| Ift^8ftft88ftft888^ft ft 

C4 1 t^ 1 COM I 1 f*n*jco-*co--cororocororOf*5rocO ^ 



. 

^.CT- do 06 inriodvd t>.txo ir 



o o O^o o w o o O *rofififO'*oo *> 



000 00 0000 0000 

M 6 d o o o >-i d M 



>- l-vO 0>v> 






001 lr>fO|txl^OO>l 1 | I 1 I 1 | IOO|t-.00 
tOI 1 4i MOtfM 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 IMNMIHNM 



1*52 



vno^ O moo vnoo in o W^O vnvnoo O o l>.q ^t^ q 

l-lMdoOMt-(Wodd>HMMM-ll-' 



O l^NOC ^vOOO fi O 



-+<X> if>t*OQ rOi/lulOO 



TfNOO M< 

Bj^vfiiTfraa^ 



i vn o N 0*0 O s oo ^t\O t^ O in o O^^O oo in M ci fOoo ino 

IMMOMMOlHIHIHM COOO i-l vO !>. C7- O^ 6 ' O -4oO O 



HI OOOO O IHOO O qoOOOPONinfO 

i CP-OO oo o>oo r4o>dodvdob o CTI w o <-ioo 



?s 







nffi 

4) (U O u^ 1 -'' 



o 
t^ 

CO 



SlwISH^OQOinooOi/iminOQOlinl I in | in O I 1 ui o I O in I vn I o 
~ I $:tfift:t$afi tiWrrwaff n rt htw r itft I ftw I :r M 

* I N I POO) M PON POPOPOPOPOPOC4 POPO I tO I I PO I POM I I POM I MM I I N 



0600 i/itxcrod -<fo6 txr-ivd oivo pot>.d^t>.od vAunoo in t^. t^. t>. in\d PO d ' 



vAunoo in t^. t^. t>. in\d PO d ' P* o cj* S^ 



WONOOOPO^OOO^-POPOOPOtxOOO^OOOOOtxOmOOOOMOMOOOOOOOOO 



sf^s s fr a o^ 



* 



vn| |tr>OO|OOOOOqC)OI 

01 iMMMiMMciroi-tMcsNl 



txi/iuivo M M Tt q rooo qo o^o ir q POM OVTJ-VO NOOO * *cr>nM -^-q 

d u^o O ^t^fO N M MPON 'J-ooo MU^LTIC^^OO t^*t^cs oro c^oo o^c$ t>.M 
O NOO N N M xjnO-O^N minvO TfMOOvD t>00 MVO *^MOO M t^ t-.vO C 



M o*\o POM 



M NPOinNOO M NPONOOOO POin OirnnPOM\ou->rfir)tr>M O O*O O O 



O I txO O O 









Noooo M vnoo mvo U-IN M ** qvfl I n M 
MC4C4MOOOW POOO O^O p ^munW 



^CT>rOinmt>.POvnvO r^PO I * O 



PO O PO P M vO P4 



O t^OO O POtxtxoOOO t^PON OOPOOOPOOPOi 



cs s *^4 



g o :j : :-, : : g : : : S : :^ : ' 'TJ ' $ ' 



8||fe;ili!li4^.| 



2 . S .=11 2 S If JTJJ c-S 8 :1 2 1 2 

lllll^illlllllislw-^ 



J9Ay 



sjuaiuojg 

J9qjQ 0} uiajojj 

jo uoijjodojj 



001 
-UIBJU03 

janouiy 



pnj jo 

S9IJO[B3 



jo spijos 



SJ.1VS 



STARCHES AN 
SUGARS 
(Carbohydrate 



saouno 



zo jaj 



}U9D J9<J 



J09D J9J 



;U90 J9J 



JU9D J9J 



zo i 

U! 

S9UOIB3 



U93 J9J 



zo i 

Ul 



?U9D J9J 



C 



od oo 06 (foot; 006 ood od uxx> 



oo o r>. o o o o o o ^M o 



rOfO Tt-oo O OO Wixt-..Tf- -rfroo 
WONOOOOOOONOOO 



r^p O M rop roincioomovp 

KO'-'OOrOfOMWO'-'vOTf- 
MOOMMMMMMOO^M 



p p p pvpoo in p inomrfoo 

M M M M O M Q' M O O O O O' 



O t% O O * O M 



OvO 00 txir>0 O 



oo O vn\o v 

M t>i M X^ t 



o *<poo_ CNXS * t>. o^ o t^oo -*o 

i-iuio'pOciTtTONincod^W 



ONOWMMMMNMOOO 



rOCOvO OOO in N v 



OO vO N * M l>. OOO fO N OO 
NONOi-i'-it^.drOi-iNMO 



aaalaSS&S^ii^ 

C-j;--_rtooooo}3}:J3 ^ 



*.wW 



."|-COMVO -*rOvOPOrO 



-<-OvO r^rOOts.0000 row 

oo fii/>d_>p'vd oo'vd dfO 



M fO * O wnrO 
N N N N M r<5 



lu^vno 1 Mil M . 

1 H W M 1 1 1 1 1 



OOinrOOinOlO 

N lAir* -^ t^. 1 vO 



in p vn p p p p Ooo N in 

MMwcoModdd 



* p 

WMNMOMi-iWMNN 



r i Tti i i *fi 

OIOOOI 1 O O 1 M 



in j irwo mrON inin i ao 

O I O O M M M M M I O 



^^3 
OJ O 4> 



5 4--^-||l| 

ca 



jrl wlius 



( in 44 me! 



. q>>-< oo o N q> c> t>.o m-^t-M o o q* * N N oo N * m m w q> w q oo M mmo -< o oo oo 



T- q mo oo qootxc^cr-mc^u-vM inoo 

WO d * N wl^Omrf -<tOO OOO N 00 



f t^oO OCOC ON -* 



m o mo * -rf-o^oooo 



oo i o o o 



^* d in Q^mo i 

d d d d d 



O O O 



MOO flrO" t^ * I fO oe in 



CO 



^cr-mo v 



N moo 

CT- "*vO in CD-O IH - 

--<CSNunMN 



r~.oo ootxmivc o^o 



c CN * NO t>.oo voo 

^0 M tx tX\O inW MI-Ht-1 



sq I ts IN q oc i| w I I m Ol I I I \r> ro I O> I 

M I ts et c d I M I I *s o d I I ! o 4- 1 M 



w|i-<Minin!inmmiMO 



d I N d d d 



iT-j oomMi i i i M vq i t>. i 1 
I d I wool I I idpnldl | 



mqi-i|i-iii-iinT-iTt-mm 



mm moo t>.i 



o>-(i>-< 



t>.mm I in 

d d ci d I d 



dM I M I I ddi-i I o I 



e ONO o 



u 1 1 1 w"^ 1 w" t: fc w 3 

^ o5 fe a3. >>. <u c~ 
- -xj u u CJOJD 5 13 



& 



i!illiii.^i.y w s^i:p|ii^ 

T3 ;S o -^ -Q to^c c c e'S ^O <D D ID""*^ o^ *" 3 <? ?r ,-> ?T 



t .-sr-s sg g .-o ss - 

| i 



j9q;O o; UJ9JOJJ 
jo uoijaodojj 



S9IJOJB3 

obi 3m 
UIEJUOO 



O in O * W f) N N OO O O OOO OCO 
wM tnrorOO ^r -^-oo * -^-u-iOO vntx M O 



S9UOIB3 



ZO J9J 



i^>\5 txOOvOOOOOOO 



ao sptjos 



*> 



00 W MfOM woo txr 



3SO1 



O 1 O \r>in\fit** O 



nrO 1 ITKXSOOOO vn o O 
ow wddddcoN 



SXTVS 



O^UTOO in O O 



OOOO in O O 



STARCHES AND 
SUGARS 
(Carbohydrates) 



zo i 

Ul 



t^sO o t^vooo 



N vO IxOO invO vO rO t>.^5 N O* rl 



zo i 

Ul 

S9UOJBO 



1 1 1 1 fOCOOOsO 1 N 1 1 vO 1 M ^ 

1 llddodistci ol 1 M 1-1 M M 



| | I 1 MMf>WO> OO I I 1 vO CO f> O< >< f> H I 

1 1 1 d d ro oi d oil Id ddddddl 



zo i 

Ul 



^* TJ- Tfin M 



1 t>. tv. I CO M I MM I tN.00 O N O * 00 

! O oi O O M 1-1 1-1 I MM I M'M I OOMMC4OO 



^pii litssteyBii 





-rj- -rf cororo O O co O ^cOcoS Oro 
iN IN COCOCONCOCOCON IN CO IN CO CO CO 


fi&ISI&SftSSttUS 






^"5, ^4 ^ ^ t >^^"~- oc T 








*". r. r. 
















vo O u">u~)\o ur co u"t u~i\o i-Ti r^o vo o i/~ 
ooooooMoooooMOtsd 


OOOM^^^MOOOMMOOO^ 






















r^o oo o- t^oo iCoo x u-i o M-^O r^ too 


^rOOO^O --OO^M 00000 ^t ui? 






MI-CM M 
















1 ^ . . . ^ c . . ^ . . ? . ^"9 


CO p t>. ro^p CO 0- 






a.oo oo^oo c^o o^o^c^oco^ 


M M M M M M <S 














M M CO U^ \D 


oo &<&& o^oo 06 oo o^ ox>o oo o~ o^ CT- a- o^ t- 














.9 .9'9 N 9 N T.9| O 9 X 99J 


99 , S 9 X ... 






vo ^ ro ^ <S N roroco 1 N rou^ * 


















tnO -^-IN iNOOu-cOiNCOO -<1-OC unoc i/^ * O 








0000000 










10 




OOCOIN vnr>.rOiNcoiNvOoooopiNoo 


. o^ o p 


CO 




ITAG OO * ^Jj'^Q ^? u-> ^2 MM 


MM IN 
















p -o IN oo oo o co 0-0 o UT* o .0 a> 






^^^^^CO^^M 5 r 00 ^ 000 2 


M M 














*i- ro LTiO <^ ^f ^ _r i t>.oc O ^- r^ i-t i_n 


MOOCO.MOC.O.O.O.OMO. 






KIJ^-S,^^ 


OO^OMjo^OMo'o^MOOOM 














u^inoo iN^O rOxO N 00 M OvOOCOO * 


.9 . . * . ^ . .* r0ocri0 9 ^^ 






3"2'^ * S * S< 2 < SMSS"S^ M 
















M CT- o o o w t^.o t^vo r^ o o o tx 


. ^^ . - . ^ . . ^ . 






MM^O^O^-COOOOO^ 








::::: = :-:::: :^ :: 


U 3 -s ; : ! y ! N 




1 

fc 

o 


: : : := : : : :^ : 


^ ^ a a a a+* 2 2^ %%* a 
. <<<MWCJUCJCJCJUCJUCJCJ 

Q 





O u"> tOi/^OOOOO-^O Q 

o 7f r. r. P. P P. ftp. Ttr? P 

* fO fO^rororON M cs ro ro 



SJU9UI913 



ooi Sui 

-UIEJU03 

junouiy 



J9rjj jo 



saounQ 



vr> MOOOO O OOO OOCOOOO -*vO t^inM iriM M o O " O O 
ui o N ooc'cc l^od r'wd u^O I/IN rororooi corOO J N OO 



zo joj 



OOO IHOO Tf>-< 



aospqos 



vo 1-1 OO OO O vr> * O^ 



O vr> * O^vO OOO CT>t^ 



tx tx o> t^O oo oo co p r>. co p 

oi co co <s i in rooo (yo O ro N 
COCSNMMNN M IH IH 



vO M in M O O CT> 1^0 O v 



tx O O O i 



N N N I I I 10 TfOOOO 

M O I I I I 1 I M M M 



STARCHES AND 
SUGARS 
Carbohydrates) 



zo i 
a? 



in M p poo -<tO 

ICO ^ i 



t-"OO 
NW 



O TTinmin N O -^vAit^oOO fOO^- 1-1 txt^OO TfOO COuTTfN 



f/^ O M M !>, I^OO *< 



'ZO I 

ut 



cooo OOOCOOOO >-" 



JU9D J9J 



O in co t^ O CO cooo ^O C^c^O^WMt-iOOOMi |M\O 

w ddd>-iddcooNddddd coo co d i loo 



zo 

UI 



00 <* O^' 



CM- m O 



?U9D J9J 



s 



s 

so q q q u-o tvoo q q q \o q >o vq PO w vq q -*oo qoo q m <M vq qoovq w vq t-^ r>. N PO 

*""" H ' M POM (N 

*>.*>. 

. 
"*, 

OO OO OO O> t^ i~ moo o a- O t^ in fs t^vD O> in M-\O & O * IH O t^OO OO OO t- moo rOOO * 

I 

K 
o 

C OOOCNWC4MOOOO MOOMMtHMOM!-(ONOOHMMI-tMO-HOOl-^l 

4 

inPOOvqt->w MvOt^H M 

HI M (H N w * 
" 
t C 

2 

vT O PD * t^vD P OO O PO 

c 

Q 

~ ' .' v "; ".' x l ? T i " "^ ". ".' % .' 

Q 1-1 i-i c-4 I u " i u (.1 -rrxw.^. viv^ v_^j^. ^j u QQ 1 ^ aV M ^^^'^^''^w 5-O 

OOsNO^Iw ^O s P4mc4inM mco Tt- I 1 in i.r.oo O O O POoc N in in in O* 

M M >i M t^ i-i N^i-iO* 

_^ O 
K 

POOO PO O ^O in O in in TJ-OO t^ t^ O N O C^oo M i-i 00 t^oc w oo u~i M 

MOMdPOi-tPOi-tOWO O-OOO^inp^i-it^t^OOO Ooo OO MvOtxrOM OinpJvO O 

CJ M M CON N N M CO M M M M N M M IH M PO 

sjMlilll s^liilijiiiSjyjjil; ;| 



(qoBtuojc;) 




jo uorjaodoaj 



S9UOIE;} 
061 Sui 
-UIBJUO3 
ju'nouiy 



9ll|B A 

gn ao 



jo spips 



asoa 



sxivg 



ARCHES AND 
SUGARS 
Carbohydrates) 



ST 



soounQ 



zo jaj 



?U90 J9J 



zo 

UI 



zo i 

UI 



JU90 J9J 



zo i 

UI 
' 



""T^l "fi . . 



O O TO O **< vO 



*>"? 

POPOPOrO 



-rm woo CT<O f^o-oo 



^ -<*-vO *>. w inui q P4 u-iCT>i-i >-> NvOvO *fOPO-'i-Pno O O 
i POOO M OO N P'ivC) O i-< ^ Tt- CT- P4 VT13O <> 4 in O- 



>00 vnM C>OV 



OOOOO O fO O 



unNPO>-iMt>.inq'-iqP900'-i POi^iPOPO^N 
NWM(-tMC>6vdt^dl-tMMMI-iMMMI-(W 



oo 
tx 

CO 



\O O ''too O * 



O- PD -*OO OC OO 1-1 



W -* 
C4 



N moo 1-1 vO ^ tx txOO vO-Hi-iOO^NMO^PO-HOOMOwPOWMN 



^ t^ t^OO vO 



^oo 

0>0> 



inqqqNvONoocjvOvo i>,ao vo-opoi>.qvoooo 

^PJCSi-iNMNMPtNi-iN^NN 



q>-iPoqNu->pqqqp>-<p'-) TJ-O i-"t>.qqr.i-(ir>Nq>-it>.M 



3> 



Q Q tjf> O I/M/" OOOu^OOOOO u"> O i/*i O O O 

o p. n o rr^rp s co.-fp o c?r?o .ttt.M p. o r? 

CONNrOrOCOr^NNNCDNNCMrDP-iNNNMCO 



. o O^O O O ON3O T*- O O ^ fXO ^" O O O *^-OO 



rootxopM-pqooo 



OO M-un O*O NrOO>O Tj-N M M N O M NvOOO Tf-^O OO 

. O t- N C> (T10O <* N. rOOO vO N OO C i l/l l-i O O C> * t>. 
o M -*M o unvO M unvo rOiHTfNMM 



LD\O r-UT*-l-l 



r^vo o o oo o o & i^oo * o o 



r^N^O O O 



poooLnoqcr>p-*v^i| c^p 



O 000 O f}< 



vO r^ O * 
un w> LTI co 



CO t^oo O M -*J-oo 
\o M u^vo txO^n 



vn t^ O^^D t>. O N <* O O i/v-O 



o 
tx 

CO 



iJTOOi-iN^O ** UTOO TtvO -O O u-i\O t^vO O 

u-i r^ iri u-ivO O u~i OO Ooo O * O ro O (S -*inoo 

N NM-^NMvOiriMU-ll-l 



^OOVOMOMMOO. 



t^.OOO txOOOO . 

oo t^ o dvo i 



OOOONNi-H rOvO inOunu-i 

M CO M CO M W l-( 



N tn p N rOO N 1-1 o-i rOvD M O 
dNrodd'NNOrOONCJ'i 



p^vno^-^Nvom-^-N c^rDu-ioo rOvO r^f<poo Ovpt>.oj oocnONc < pt--.-^-pv^u-i 

M CO N *! s ^^O *^-OO LnO LTlOvOwCO^iTOM'NOHt C^OCOOC^OO^"i/~OOOOOC 

NN i-li-il-INi-cMMlH CO NfON 



M O \r> O N O O -*vO o ^O f> COvO O OO tx N -<f POvO w 

MCON MLn44r ^ ^ * ^^^^ " 



fKO f) t^ 1^ O 



: a a> . : 
i^llS!:.: 



-i 



TABLE OF FOOD COMPOSITION, ETC., -CONTINUED 


9011 T UOIJS93IQ ^ 
'93BJ9AV 


8 llfilfi R III lit 


* 


J9qjQ 0? U19JOJJ 


CT^ o q o q ts, q *x ^ q q q <3 q q w 
u"> ^* M ^\c3 sdo^ wW*o ciciro in^G w 


S9U01B3 
OOI JUI 
UIBJU03 

janoiuv 


S3oano 


^ ^ OO^OOM 0- vOOO Otx^ 




S9UOIBO 


ZO J9J 


i liliS ra *& n* 


9AIJUjnN 

ao spijog 


,3 d 


M C4 -^MfAMM ^t- O TO CO s O CO M U^ 
M M 000000001^ M C1 CO COCOCO M ir> 


1 


J09Q J9J 


M \O \OOO O^COOO *<>OO O txCO 1 * . COvO & 


HSOT 


}U9Q J9<J 


| | oo^^^co ill o | | IJ 

1 1 00000 III Nil M 


SX1VS 


HI93 J9<J 


* CO OOO^t^OvO M CO "* M OOO 


O O OOOMO OOO OOO MMM 


STARCHES AND 
SUGARS 
(Carbohydrates) 


zo i 

S9UOIB3 


O O* COMWCOO *<* OOO M OO O^t^ 


;u90 J9j 


CO \n vO O -*00 txNts M COOO t^00 


- ~ 32Z3Z w ar ftc^s *$+ 


fc 


zo i 
DI 

S9UOIBO 


OO ft MM ^mM vOOO t> O^txoo M 1 O> 
CO OO CT-OO^O^N COCO 1 * O wnco O 1 Q 


,a*o^ 


MM O> O i/VOvO M -^OO COM * * I O 

iA co M "S toc<:> '*' "">"-'-* o M M' co 1 ri 


PROTEINS 


zo i 

UI 
S9UOIBO 


>0 0X3000 l^Tf MvOOO 00 t^OO MO-M 


CO OOOU^CO^ vOt^CO MCOM ""-J? 


,3J 


5 ^SSISS S^Jo M^ "SiT!? 


FOOD SUBSTANCES 
H. COOKED FOODS 






|f J| U Jl If 

& U U Q O 



to co co to co to to cocococooi cococococi tococococoei coci ei coco ci coco i 


18 

1 N 








-tin ^00 cou^ 000 roi/vo M rOi/iwoo co^^fOvOOTfO^-Wt^O^-^- 00 


CO ,,,.,,,, ^CO^^ 


SO i/1 CO M N txvO M O^O 

t^txvo ^mr^j-s COCOT 




~^OC 


O^ IN. TJ- oi CT> vA CO N CNJO -4 1 IN.O oo' ONiO ^O vri OX OO 






^ 


in in vn u-i CO u^O W CO r<" 


NOt^.MTfi_no M-^-u-tO^COO ''^O T*- t^ tx r-*. in\O J 




W ijT>oo O O^sD u^ tn s iJ" 


MO^vOOO^ ^^C^^M^vOCOOM^OO^ 


n-S3 


^ "^" "^ "^f O ^ CO tN.sO "O O O O i/^sO O -T ^ t^OO COOOOOOOOOQO t^.^X OV3O OO OO OC 


"d 11 Id 


i o^vd^! i !?l 322???HH???2 


! 


ooooooo ooo 


OOOOOOO 00000000000000 00 








s^;?; ^^ &$% 


N N CO CO CO ro CO P4 M M 1 1-1 MM" ^"""MIH h 


?J 






3 N 

M 

- .-< 


9*iwi vii 


^^Rft'S^ft ii-gjS^^' 00 '?'- 00 '^ 4 ^? i 


KU^OCOOCT^ CT-CO-t 


pNCOOO^-tncO ^CONJ>.O^^t>.00 N ^-0^0 C 




NMM^MNM * 


M 




i4gd2 do^ 


^ _ ' ' d co ^ O^O^N'M'^ d"c?d'c^o'^d > 0^0^ 


oe^-oe.* o^^vo 


^MOOOOoO^tN. t^un r>.oo O* w s OoO vn fs. O"O O^ t 


j-Tt- 




* N W ocooooo o o 


M^-^vONvOvO vOCOvOCOvO^-^-NCOO * M ^O OO O t^ M COxn t^ M f> OO 




1 jij if M ii 


Minn UlijHMjiM! 


Bean and Tomato 


ill cl 

o fc^ : a 

S ^J^JD Ui rt O Q ^5 4) 13^ 

ufi 4 




:>& g .-2 : :-g : 

<UH -*S *O ' ^ *pL| fl) 

IlLltf B| 

JUQSfeH^ d<WWWUCJUfeHi!5(2H>^ o ff 
f/i co 



00 
CO 



MwciHMciMMctMMWMCicfMHM 






uiojoaj 
jo uoijjodojj 



Ill 



ooi 3ui 

-UIKJUOQ 

junotuy 



saouno 



p rooo p o c 10 qoc iq q |omp o o q ooCT>OMqfOoo 

LT.O LTi u~i un un ui un 1/1 u~i i_n u~> un un u~t uDsO t^ O O M M M M 



[3HJ JO 
S9UOIBO 



zo joj 



OO OO M to O* OXJO O O * CTOO O OO *< M M vO OO N N vO i- 



O Spl[Og 



jtuo jaj 



N N fMM M coqu^oo *>.O>MOO i o^txtx cr> N cr>ui o 

^f?S 2 M^M^M'M'M^S'M M'M 5 ^ M*M M^M 00 do "oxc tZ.ao C 



^N COM >NOO M COM MOOOO M UTOO 

ss&issssassssa&ssits s. 



jnao jaj 



}U93 J3J 



o" d d d d d o' o' d o' o' o" o' o' d o' o' d M' o" o o o o 



STARCHES AND 
SUGARS 
(Carbohydrates) 



-- v> CO t^ N vO * 



S83* 



00 
CO 



o>ooo M o^wvooo qvo MOOVO N t>.coMso OMvocoNoq 
^t^o-odoo-o^coooo'c^^gM4 ^^^j^g 



zo i 

01 
S9IJOIE3 



vO \fi M vO N 



t^ M f^ M OO COOO t^vO 
r> t>. -^- r% ci co co * id 



J09D J9J 






zo i 

UI 



oo tnc-cocooooo o>oo -<-cot^cooo 
N cococo ci M i CM' vco * 1 co M M 



u-iwi 
a id i 



COOK 




eieeeccctet 



. MOO M f r >O-l N N 

d d d d 



odd 



d d 



M N t^vO OfOM 



i TOO OO OO iri U1 O U-l X^OC O s 
CO W W 



t>. w O-ao oo 



-'l-M'VN COOO M CO 



SsiHHs^sfrf! 

M t/5 ^_C_R_3C;rtr83og 



PO 
00 
CO 



INDEX 



385 



INDEX 



"Abdominal brain," 13, 254. 

Abdominal breathing, 27; weaknesses, 38; supporters, 57. 

Abrams, Dr., on the blues, 33, 299. 

Absorption, from the bowels, 8. 

Acid dyspepsia, causes, 69; treatment of, 70; diet for, 157; and 
drinking at meals, 173. 

Acidity of the blood and meat, 126; of stomach, diet for, 155. 

Acids, effect on saliva, 67. 

Acids, fruit as a laxative, 155; as water disinfectant, 184. 

Actinic rays, 15. 

Actinomycosis and milk, 134. 

Adaptability of cells, i. 

Adipose tissue, 9. 

Adulterated foods, 129; water, 192. 

Adulteration of food, results of, 130; and rum traffic, 131; of 
dairy products, 134; of cereals, 136; of canned goods, 137; of 
sugar products, 138; of condiments, 140; of beverages, 142; of 
medicines, 142. 

African head deformities, 53. 

Aged, baths for, 208. 

Agglutination of germs, 237. 

Air sacs of the lungs, 8; chambers, terminal, 26; "lunches," 
necessity for, 31, 350; night, 33; fresh, 267, 348; composition, 
268; humidity of, 269; changes, how effected, 270; require- 
ments, 271, 348; flushing, 272; its relation to health, 274; germs 
in, 315- 

Air pressure in the lungs, 27; in general, 267; cause of disease, 
309- 

Albuminoids, 80. 

"All gone feeling," 160, 356. 

Allspice, adulteration of, 140. 

387 



388 INDEX 

Almonds, 116. 

Alcohol, effects on leucocytes, 12, 359; cause of sunstroke, 21; 
in tonics, 29; comparison of, with foods, 164; nature and origin 
of, 164; not a food, 164, 342; the truth about, 164; in relation 
to condiments, 170; effects on kidneys, 198; effects on blood 
pressure, 231 ; general effects, 231 ; in insanity, 231, 342 ; cost 
of, 232 ; a nerve poison, 263 ; a deceptive drug, 341 ; effects on 
body, 342; in crime, 342; in idiocy, 342; poisonous properties 
of, 342; remedial value of, 342; effects on society, 343; a false 
friend, 358. 

Alcoholic beverages, effect on appetite, 148; in general, 163, 353. 

Americans, why they succeed, 219. 

Amoeba, reproduction of, 5; habits of, 6; simplicity of, 6; of 
dysentery, 333. 

Amusements, 259. 

Amylopsin, 73. 

Anaemia, sunbaths in, 20; cause of, 33; diet for, 156. 

Anatomy of the respiratory organs, 25; of voice box, 28; of 
muscles, 35 ; of digestive organs, 63 ; of kidney, 195 ; of skin, 
195; of blood vessels, 212; of heart, 212; of brain, 250; of 
nerves, 251. 

Anger and blood pressure, 226. 

Aniline dyes in candy, 138 ; test for, 138. 

Animal instincts, 2; intelligence, 2; body, an energy consumer, 
17; heat, 36; heat, nature and source of, 83; foods, 121; prod- 
ucts, 124; products, adulteration of, 131; poisons, cause of 
disease, 310; parasites, cause of disease, 311; products, food 
tables, 379- 

Animals, instinct and reason of, 264; as disease carriers, 333. 

Anthrax and milk, 134. 

Anti-acid foods, 157. 

Anti- ferment of digestive juices, 75; fat foods, 158. 

Anti-toxins, operation of, 240; theory of, 246. 

Ants, ingenuity of, 2; intelligence of, 264. 

Anxiety, in high blood pressure, 225. 

Apoplexy, from high pressure, 221. 

Appendix, 367. 

Appetite, how increased, 44; stimulates saliva, 67; juice, of Paw- 
low, 69; in general, 148; necessity for controlling the, 152, 355; 
poor, foods for, 154; habit, treatment, 161 ; unperverted, 347; 
indication of digestive power, 355. 



INDEX 389 

Apples, in general, in; baked, in; composition, calories, etc., 

372. 

Apricots, 112; composition, calories, etc., 372. 
Architects, competent, 20. 
Arrowroot, composition, calories, etc., 370. 
Art of eating, the } 353. 
Arteries, area of, 10; structure of, 10, 212. 
Arterio-sclerosis, diet in, 158; in high pressure, 221; and blood 

pressure, 225. 

Artichoke, composition, calories, etc., 375. 
Artificial immunity, 246. 
Artificial jellies, 140. 
Aseptic foods, 156. 

Asparagus, 118; composition, calories, etc., 375. 
Assimilation, of food, 77; by the cells, 78. 
Athletics, harm of, 41. 

Atmosphere, moisture of, 177; the, 267; hygiene of, 315. 
Attenuation of germs, 237. 
Auto-intoxication and blood pressure, 224; treatment of, 263; 

and tired feelings, 360. 
Auto-suggestive therapeutics, 291. 

B 

Babies, bathing of, 207; dangers from kissing, 323. 

Bacon, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Bacteria in milk, 135. 

Bad food combinations, 154. 

Baking powders, 174. 

Balanced ration, the, 143. 

Baldness, cause of, 61. 

Bananas, 112. 

Barley, 106; composition, calories, etc., 370. 

Barometer, the, 267. 

Bath, the internal, 180, 356; the cleansing, 201. 

Bathing, regular, 195, 357; hygienic, 199; necessity for, 199; re- 
sults of neglecting, 199; morning, 200; facilities, 202; outdoor, 
203; tonic, 206; infant, 207; and meal hours, 209; hints con- 
cerning, 209 ; in heart disease, 209 ; in kidney disease, 209. 

Bathroom, the, 203. 

Baths, when to take, 202; free, 203; sea, 203; swimming, 203; 



390 INDEX 

neutral, 204; cabinet, 205; cold, 205; for convulsions, 205; hot, 
205; Russian, 205; Turkish, 205; for "tired feeling," 207; for 
the aged, 208; in fever, 208; duration of, 210; in pain, 210; 
reaction from, 210; cold, in blood pressure, 223; in blood pres- 
sure, 228; as treatment for worry, 298. 

Bay windows, 19. 

Beans, dried, 126; composition, calories, etc., 379. 

Beans, string, 118; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Beavers, dam, i. 

Bedbugs, 19; as disease-carriers, 332, 362. 

Bedroom, climate, 275, 349; disease, dangers of, 319; clothing, 61, 
352. 

Beds, hard and soft, 61. 

Beech nuts, composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Beef extract, 122; composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Beef flesh, 122; composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Beef tea, 122; composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Beets, 118; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Berries, the, 113. 

Beverages, adulteration of, 142; alcoholic, 163; composition, cal- 
ories, etc., 380. 

Bichloride of mercury, 340. 

Bicycle scorcher, 40. 

Bile, action of, 72 ; secretion of, 72 ; germicidal action, 235. 

Biliousness, cause of, 79; low protein diet, 85; baths for, 207. 

Bills of fare, 91. 

Biscuits, composition, calories, etc., 370. 

" Bitters," stomach, 148. 

Blackberries, 113; composition, calories, etc., 372. 

Blessings of deep breathing, 30. 

Blood, in respiration, 26; purifiers, 29, 217, 263; how purified, 29, 
2I7 35o; poisons and breathing, 30; oxygen content, 31; acid- 
ification of, 126; how alkalinized, 126; circulation of, 212: 
aeration of, 214; function of, 216. 

Blood cells, 10; number of, 12; creation of, 13. 

Blood corpuscles, red, 10, 214; white, n. 

Blood-making foods, 156, 218. 

Blood pressure, 218; effects of high, 220; how taken, 220; results 
of high, 221; cause of high, 222; how lowered, 227, 359; 
methods of lowering, 230; natural methods in raising, 232; in 
relation to sleep, 261 ; how raised, 358. 



INDEX 391 

Blood vessels, function, 10; structure, 212. 

Blueberries, 113; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Blues and deep breathing, 32, 350; how caused, 299. 

Board of health regulations, 341. 

Bodily exercise, 41. 

Bodily heat, conservation of, 49. 

Body, power of self-repair, 4; structure of, 5; tissues of, 7; a 
commonwealth, 14, 347; an engine, 37; total strength of, 37; 
clothing of, 48; nutrition of, 77; elimination of wastes from, 
78; fluids, germicidal, 235, 358; changes in, 265; work and brain 
work, 351. 

Body cells, specialization of, 7; and leucocytes, 12. 

Body wastes increased by exercise, 46; in general, 78; germs 
and, 236; and importance of, 354. 

Boiled water, 192. 

Bologna sausage, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Bones, function, 9. 

Books as disease-carriers, 324. 

Borax, 131. 

Boric acid, 131 ; effect on animals, 131. 

Botanical clock, 2. 

Bowel, catarrh of, diet in, 156; condiments in, 170. 

Bowel, mucous membrane of, 8; elimination of germs by, 236; 
discharge, disinfection, 318. 

Boys, venereal infection of, 346. 

Brain cells, 14; action and breathing, 30; foods, 218, 263; human, 
250 ; physiology of, 252 ; abdominal, 254 ; fag, 262 ; poisons, 263. 

Brazil nuts, 116; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Breads, fermented, 106; unfermented, 107; adulteration of, 137; 
fresh, objections to, 171; soft and doughy, 354; composition, 
calories, etc., 370. 

Breakfast foods, mushy, 172. 

Breakfast menus, 92. 

Breathing, natural, 25, 350; tubes, 25; in disease, 27; rate, 27; 
exercises, 29; shallow, 30; and mental state, 30; and mental ac- 
tion, 31 ; and bowel action, 32 ; and digestion, 32 ; and the liver, 
32; and exercise, 45; restricted, 55; perverted, 56; and baldness, 
61 ; and brain action, 349 ; deep, 349 ; and constipation, 350 ; 
shallow, 350; superficial, 350. 

Bromides, the, in high pressure, 232. 

Bronchi, the, 25; terminal, 26. 



392 INDEX 

Bronchial arteries, the, 26. 

Bronchitis, a house disease, 274. 

Brothels, disease-carriers, 346. 

Bright's disease, increase of, 130; diet in, 158; cause of, 198; 

from high pressure, 221. 
Bubonic plague, 332. 

Buckwheat, 106; composition, calories, etc., 370. 
Buns, composition, calories, etc., 370. 
Butter, in general, 124; adulteration of, 135; tests for, 135; a 

disease-carrier, 335; sterilized, 336; composition, calories, etc., 

379- 

Buttermilk, 124; composition, calories, etc., 379. 
Butternuts, 116; composition, calories, etc., 375. 



Cabbage, 119; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Caffeine, effects of, 162. 

Cakes, composition, calories, etc., 380. 

Calisthenics, 43. 

Calories, definition, 84 ; required daily, 86 ; how to determine, 87 ; 
table of food, 97. 

Cancer, increase of, 130. 

Candy, adulteration of, 138; when objectionable, 166. 

Cane sugar, adulteration of, 139 ; in general, 165 ; effects on stom- 
ach, 166. 

Canned goods, adulteration of, 137. 

Canned meats, adulteration of, 133. 

Cantaloupe, 313; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Capacity of lungs, 28. 

Capillaries, function of, 10. 

Capillarity, 178. 

Carbohydrates, how eliminated, 79; fuel value, 84. 

Carbolic acid, 318, 340. 

Carbonated water, 194. 

Carbonic acid and plants, 16; exchange in lungs, 26; how de- 
tected, 268; and other poisonous gases, 273. 

Carpets, faded by light, 20 ; dangers of, 316. 

Carrots, 119; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Cartilage, 9. 

Catarrh, baths for, 207; a house disease, 274. 



INDEX 393 

Catarrh of stomach, see under Stomach. 

Cats and parasites, 333; as disease-carriers, 336. 

Catsup, tomato, 141. 

Cauliflower, 119; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Celery, 119; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Cellar, the, and microbes, 20; ventilation of, 20. 

Cells, instincts of, i; adaptability of, I; unifying influence of, 2; 
reproduction of, 5; composition of, 6; number in body, 6; 
specialized, 6; living, 7; epithelial, 7; specialized work of, 7; 
connective tissue, 9; fat, 9; muscle, 9; blood, the, 10; lymph, 
12; nerve, 13; brain and cord, 14; respiration of, 31; assimila- 
tion of food by, 78; amoeboid movement of, 244; giant, 244. 

Cellulose, amount digested, 74; place in nutrition, 82; and diges- 
tion, 145 ; a laxative, 155. 

Cereal coffee, 380. 

Cereals, study of, 105; adulteration of, 136; food tables, 370. 

Chair diseases, 38; reform, 38. 

Cheerfulness and blood pressure, 229; its value, 297; and worry, 
298; and digestion, 354. 

Cheese, manufacture of, 68; in general, 125; cottage, 125; adul- 
teration of, 136; composition, calories, etc., 379. 

Chemical rays of light, 15; energy, 23; juice, how secreted, 70; 
messages, action of, 73. 

Chemistry of water, 176; of air, 268. 

Cherries, 113; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Chest breathing, 27. 

Chest, flat, 33; significance of, 350. 

Chestnuts, 117; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Chewing, thorough, 144; summary of, 146. 

Chicken, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Children and sunlight, 20; stunting of, 276; worries of, 287; 
value of society of, 300. 

Chills, malarial, 37. 

Chimney in ventilation, 271 ; smoky, 272. 

Chinese, foot binding, 53. 

Chittenden, Prof., on nutrition, 85. 

Chloride of lime, 340. 

Chlorophyl, 16. 

Cholera, conquest of, 130; Asiatic, 316. 

Christian Science, 301 ; cures of, 303. 

Christianity, therapeutic value of, 297. 



394 INDEX 

Chronic diseases, 3, 130. 

Churches as disease-spreaders, 277; ventilation of, 277, 349. 

Ciliated epithelium, 8 ; action of, 25. 

Cinnamon, adulteration of, 141. 

Circulation, of the lungs, 25 ; promoted by breathing, 31 ; and 

exercise, 45; in general, 212; physiology of, 213. 
Cities and venereal infection, 346. 
City slums, the, 345. 

Clam chowder, composition, calories, etc., 377. 
Classification of tissues, 7; of muscles, 9; of foods, 105. 
Climate as a disease-cause, 307. 
Closets, country, care of, 325. 
Closets, dry earth, 325. 

Clothing, winter, 48; summer, 51; injurious effects of, 53. 
Coagulation of fibrin, 239. 
Coal, relation to light, 16. 
Coal oil and fleas, 330; and mosquitoes, 331. 
Coal-tar dyes, 138. 

Cocaine and blood pressure, 222; a nerve poison, 263. 
Cocoa, breakfast, 162. 

Cocoanuts, 117; composition, calories, etc., 375. 
Codfish, composition, calories, etc., 377. 
Coffee, action on saliva, 67; adulteration of, 142; effects on 

health, 162; amount used, 163, 224; and high pressure, 223; a 

nerve poison, 263 ; predisposes to disease, 344 ; a stimulant, 354. 
Cold baths, morning, 200; natural tonic, 200; effects of, 201, 357; 

who should take, 202; in general, 205; in low pressure, 233; 

how to take, 357. 
Cold, a disease cause, 308. 
Cold hands and feet, how cured, 31; symptom of, 45; weather 

clothing, 48; foods, dangers from, 159; storage meats, 169; 

air in tuberculosis, 338. 
Colds, from errors in dress, 50; from chilling feet, 52; baths for, 

205, 207; hot packs for, 211; a house disease, 274; spread of, 

319. 

Colon, anatomy of, 65 ; bacillus and high pressure, 225. 
Color, 16. 

Comparative effects of food and alcohol, 164. 
Compress, the heating, 228. 
Compressibility of liquids, 178. 
Condensed milk, adulteration of, 136. 



INDEX 395 

Condiments, adulteration of, 140; in general, 169; and alcohol 
appetite, 170; summary of effects, 170; and high pressure, 224. 

Connective tissue, 9. 

Conquest of disease, 3, 347. 

Conscience and blood-pressure, 226; and sleep, 261. 

Constipation and old age, 12; relieved by breathing, 32; trunk 
bending in, 44; aided by walking, 44; causes of, 44; from cor- 
sets, 55; and low protein diet, 85; foods producing, 156; tea- 
drinking in, 163; baths for, 206, 207; and blood-pressure, 225; 
relation to worry, 299. 

Constriction of waist by corsets, 54. 

Consumption germs, destroyed by light, 18; how spread, 338; 
how cured, 339; how prevented, 339; and spitting, 361. 

Contagion, how spread, 318; life of, 318. 

Contagious diseases, 311; disinfection in, 318. 

Contamination of water, 188; of soil, 317. 

Convulsions, baths for, 205. 

Cook stove, abuse of, 149; value of, 354. 

Cooking barley, 106 ; breads, 107 ; corn, 108 ; macaroni, 109 ; oat- 
meal, 109; rice, 109; starches, no; wheat, no; fruits, in; 
bananas, 112; cabbage, 119; beans, 126. 

Cooking, problems of, 149; effects of bad, 150, 172; errors of, 174. 

Cooks, qualifications for, 149. 

Copper sulphate, 340. 

Corn, calories in, 22; evaporation from, 22; weight lifted by, 22; 
in general, 107; green, 119; products, composition, calories, etc., 
370. 

Corns, 8. 

Corpuscles, red blood, 10; white blood, n. 

Corrosive sublimate, 340. 

Corsets and breathing, 27; arguments for, 54; deformities of, 54; 
and female weaknesses, 55; cause of tumors, 55; and diseases, 
55 ; restrict breathing, 55 ; hygienic, 56. 

Corti, organ of, 13, 256. 

Cotton as a heat conductor, 49. 

Coughing, 27. 

Cowpox and vaccination, 247. 

Crackers, 107; composition, calories, etc., 370. 

Cranberries, 113; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Cream, in general, 124; adulteration of, 135; composition, cal- 
ories, etc., 379. 



396 INDEX 

"Crisis" in pneumonia, n. 

Cucumbers, 119; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Cup, the loving, 322. 

Cure of worry, 291 ; of disease, fraudulent, 301. 

Currants, composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Curvature of spine, 33. 

Custards, composition, calories, etc., 380. 



Daily exercise required, 41 ; food requirements, 84 ; ration, the, 

87 ; food required, children, 90 ; food required, adults, 90, 91 ; 

water required, 181; sweat and health, 351. 
Dairy products, 24; adulteration of, 134; disease carriers, 335. 
Dandelion greens, composition, calories, etc., 376. 
Dates, 113; composition, calories, etc., 373. 
Day's work, average, 42. 
Debility and cell respiration, 31. 
Debts and worry, 299. 
Decayed meats, dangers, 355. 
Deep breathing, and worry, 30; blessings of, 30; and the blues, 

32; in general, 349; and the circulation, 351. 
Deformities, fashion, 54. 
Delsarte, value of, 43. 
Despondency and sunstroke, 21. 
Desserts, dangers from, 171 ; food tables, 380. 
Dew, the, 179. 

Dextrine, how formed, 67; stages of, 8l. 
Dextrinized cereals, 155. 
Diabetes, 130. 
Diabetic foods, 157. 
Dialysis, 178. 

Diaphragm, the, 26; in breathing, 30, 351. 
Diarrhoea and drinking water, 190; and raw foods, 323; and 

flies, 327; and milk, 335. 
Diastase of cereals, 66. 
Diet, changes and digestion, 71 ; lists, special, 154; variety in, 159; 

and taste, 170; in high pressure, 229. 
Difficulties, minimizing, 293. 
Digestion and breathing, 32, 349; and exercise, 44; marvels of, 



INDEX 397 

63 ; physiology of, 65 ; and emotions, 71 ; movements of, 76 ; 
and food preservatives, 131; and mental state, 153; slow, 154; 
and cane sugar, 166; and worry, 299. 

Digestive ferments, 65; action of, 66; organs, anatomy of, 63. 

Dinner menus, 95. 

Diphtheria, conquest of, 130; and milk, 134, 335; symptoms of, 
238; sequelae of, 311; contagion from, 318; and pets, 336; and 
sweat shops, 345. 

Diphtheria anti-toxin, 241 ; theory of, 246. 

Disappointment and high pressure, 225. 

Disease, conquest of, 3 ; definition of, 3 ; germ, increase of, 3 ; 
caused by chairs, 38; caused by corsets, 55; chronic, increase 
of, 130; how the body resists, 234; hereditary, 266; caused by 
worry, 285 ; of the mind, 287 ; fraudulent cures of, 301 ; causes 
of, 306; prevention of, 306, 361; predisposing causes of, 307; 
exciting causes of, 308; injury a cause of, 308; contagious, 311 ; 
how spread, 311; soil of, 312; venereal, 346; laws of, 347; in- 
creased by nostrums, 361. 

Dishes, multiplicity of, 159; disinfection of, 318. 

Disinfectants and deodorants, 340. 

Distillation, 179. 

Dogs, dietetic experiments on, 71 ; and parasites, 333 ; as disease- 
carriers, 336. 

Domestic pets and disease, 336. 

Drafts, reaction to, 50. 

Dressings, food tables, 380. 

Drinking at meals, 172, 182, 354; in cases of sour stomach, 173; 
of pure water, 176, 356; physiology of, 179; how and when, 
182. 

Drinking water, 316; cups, public, 320; fountains, 321. 

Dropsy, salt in, 167. 

Drug habits, increase of, 130; in general, 344. 

Drugs, sleep-producing, dangers, 262, 359 ; in treatment of worry, 
298; delusion of, 341. 

Duck, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Dumb-bells, 43. 

Dust, dangers of, 315; household, 316. 

Duster, feather, 316. 

Dusting, methods of, 316. 

Dwelling, air and light, 19 ; desirable site for, 19. 

Dyes, poisonous, in clothing, 49; aniline, in candy, 138. 



398 INDEX 

Dyspepsia, stmbaths in, 20; relation to idleness, 44; how caused, 
69; oil in, 70; acid, diet for, 157; baths in, 206, 207. 



Ear, the, 256. 

Eating, simple, 143; too much, 160; too often, 161 ; art of, 353. 

Echinococcus, 333. 

Edema, malignant, 317. 

Eel, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Egg plant, 120; composition, calories, etc., 376. 

Eggnog, 125. 

Eggs, in general, 125; how preserved, 133; cooking of, 174; com- 
position, calories, etc., 379. 

Electricity, disease cause, 309. 

Elimination of body wastes, see under Body wastes. 

Emaciation, diet for, 156. 

Endurance and diet, 169. 

Enema habit, how to prevent, 203. 

Enemas in low pressure, 233. 

Energy, sun, 21; chemical, 23; snowball, 24; granules, 253. 

Enterokinase, 74. 

Enzymes, digestive, 65; effects of cooking, 151. 

Epidemics, 311. 

Epilepsy, 130. 

Epithelial cells, 7. 

Epithelium, of digestive tract, 7; ciliated, 8; of bowels, 8; of 
lungs, 8. 

Erepsin, 74. 

Eustachian tubes, 269. 

Evening dress, dangers of, 50. 

Excreta, disinfection of, 340. 

Exercise, breathing, 29, 35 ; muscular, 35, 44, 351 ; required daily, 
41 ; systematic, 41 ; agreeable, 42 ; indoor, 42 ; for invalids, 43 ; 
gymnastic, 43 ; self-resistive, 43 ; and digestion, 44 ; daily sweat- 
ing, 44; and the circulation, 45; and respiration, 45; excessive, 
dangers of, 45; increases heart action, 45; and the mind, 46; 
dangers of, 46; a poison destroyer, 46; well-balanced, 46; and 
heat stroke, 47; for weak muscles, 57; in low pressure, 227; 
in raising pressure, 232; regular, 351; and body poisons, 352. 

Exhaustion, baths for, 204, 



INDEX 399 

Exposure and high pressure, 225. 
Extracts, flavoring, see under Flavoring. 
Extremes of temperature in food, 159. 
Extremities, clothing of, 57. 
Eye, 255; sore, 319. 

F 

Fabrics, "weighing" of, 49. 

Fads and worry, 288. 

Faith cures, in blood pressure, 230; in cure of worry, 295; how 

they cure, 301 ; classification, 302. 
Fashion deformities, 54. 
Fat, lessens stomach secretion, 70; how assimilated, 78; how 

eliminated, 79; element of nutrition, 81 ; classification, 81 ; 

fuel value, 84; a laxative, 155. 
Fat cells, 9. 

Fatigue, sensation of, 2, 347; cause of, 37; and sleep, 262. 
Fattening foods, 157. 
Fatty tissue, 9. 

Fear, effects on digestion, 71 ; special, 284. 
Feet, cold, baths for, 207. 
Female porters, strength of, 53 ; weakness from clothing, 53 ; 

weakness and corsets, 55; complaints, causes, 353. 
"Ferments," digestive, 65. 
Fever, drinking water in, 193, 356; baths in, 208; in infectious 

diseases, 237 ; in destruction of toxins, 241. 
Fibrin, coagulation of, 239. 
Figs, 113; composition, calories, etc., 373. 
Filbert nuts, 117; composition, calories, etc., 375. 
Filters and filtration, 191. 
Finger nails, disease-carriers, 320. 
Fish, in general, 123; poisoning from, 133; composition, calories, 

etc., 377. 

Flat chests, symptoms of, 33; and chairs, 38. 
Flats, undesirable, 19. 
Flatulency, diet for, 156. 

Flavoring extracts, adulteration of, 141 ; artificial, 141. 
Fleas, as disease-carriers, 332, 362. 
Flesh foods, 121 ; and high pressure, 224 ; composition, calories, 

etc., 377. 
Fletcher, Horace, on swallowing, 68; on mastication, 144. 



400 WDEX 

Fletcherism, arguments concerning, 145. 

Fletcherizing, 144; summary of, 146. 

Flies and country closets, 325; as disease-carriers, 327, 362; 
classification of, 328; development of, 329; how to kill, 329; 
how to prevent, 330. 

Flours, no; composition, calories, etc., 372. 

Fly traps, 329; paper, 329; poisons, 329. 

Fly, tsetse, 330. 

Fomentations, 228. 

Food requirements, daily, 84; requirements, how to determine, 
87; requirements for children, 90; requirements for adults, 90, 
91; calories, 97; frauds, 129; laws, pure, 131; preservatives, 
131 ; preservatives and indigestion, 131 ; combinations, 153 ; 
combinations, good and bad, 154; tables, 370; tables, explana- 
tion of, 367, 370. 

Food, nitrogenous, 79; study of, 104; classification of, 105; adul- 
terated, 129; tainted, dangers of, 129; poisoned, 129; results of 
adulteration of, 130; adulterated, amount sold, 131; special 
diet lists of, 154; peptogenic, 154; laxative, 155; compared with 
alcohol, 164; preparation of, 172; service of, 172; liquid, 172; 
raw, a disease-carrier, 323; and flies, 328; hard, value of, 354; 
tainted, 354. 

Foot, the, deformed by shoes, 52. 

Formaldehyde, preservative, 131; effects of, 134; as a fumigant, 
315; in general, 340. 

Formulae, dietetic, 87, 88. 

Fountains, drinking, 321. 

Free baths, in Chicago, 203. 

Freezing, water, expansion of, 24; mixtures, 177. 

French heel shoes, 52. 

Fresh air, 267; and health, 348. 

Fretting and worry, 283. 

Friction in lowering blood pressure, 227. 

Fried foods, 174. 

Frogs' legs, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Fruit jellies, 114; juices, in slow digestion, 154; sugars, in slow 
digestion, 154; acids, laxative, 155; juices, as beverages, 183. 

Fruits, in general, m; cooking of, in; disease-carriers, 316; 
food tables of, 372 ; composition, calories, etc., 372, 373. 

Fuel value of foods, 84. 

Function of muscles, 35 ; of blood, 216. 



INDEX 401 

Funerals, public, dangers of, 323. 

Furnace, hot air, 271 ; wrong construction, 272. 

Furs, 49; dangers, 353. 

G 

Gall bladder, the, 72. 

Gambling and high pressure, 226. 

Games, in worry, 300. 

Ganglia, basal, 250; basal, function of, 252; sympathetic, 252. 

Gangrene, 308. 

Garantose, 139. 

Garbage cans and flies, 330. 

Garters, 50. 

Gases, poisonous, 273. 

Gastric juice and taste, 68; secretion of, 68; types of, 70; rate of 

action, 147; germ-killer, 235. 
Gastric ulcer, causes, 69; diet in, 157. 
Gautier, on diet formulae, 87; on acidity of the blood, 126. 
Germicidal body fluids, 235. 
Germ poisons, disease-cause, 310. 
Germ-proof skin, 235. 

Germs destroyed by light, 17; the body's defence against, 234; 
elimination of, 236; how crippled, 237; incapsulation of, 239; 
digestion of, 240; toxins, how destroyed, 240; destroyed by 
leucocytes, 244; a cause of disease, 310; how subdued, 314; on 
fruits and vegetables, 316; in the soil, 317; on house furnish- 
ings, 319; on drinking cups, 320; and kissing, 322; in milk, 
335- 

Giant cells, 244. 

Ginger, adulteration of, 141. 

Girls, " form moulding," 54. 

Glanders and milk, 135 ; how contracted, 335. 

Glands, sweat, 8; lymph, 12. 

Glass houses, 19. 

Gloves, 52. 

Gluten flour, fraudulent, 136; mush, calories, etc., 371. 

Glycogen, 78. 

Goitre, 193. 

Golden Rule, the, 300; in health, 359. 

Gonorrhea, 346. 

Goose, composition, calories, etc., 377. 



402 INDEX 

Gooseberries, composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Gout and protein ashes, 79; diet for, 158. 

Graham gems, composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Grains. 105; milky stage, no; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Granola, composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Granules, energy, 253. 

Grape fruit, 114; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Grapes, 114; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Gravies, composition, calories, etc., 380. 

Gravitation, 2. 

Green corn, 119. x 

Green peas, 120. 

Greens, 120; composition, calories, etc., 376. 

Grief and high pressure, 225. 

Gymnastic exercises, 43. 

H 

Habit appetite, treatment of, 161. 

Habits, causing high pressure, 222; how formed, 252; as a dis- 
ease cause, 307. 

Hairs, 8. 

Hall, Dr., on alcohol, 164. 

Hands as disease-carriers, 320. 

Hard foods, value of, 354. 

Hard water, 187. 

Hats, cause of headaches, 60; cause of baldness, 61; and head- 
dress, 352. 

Hazelnuts, 117. 

Headache, from heavy hats, 60 ; from " rats," 61 ; from tea and 
coffee, 163; from protein ashes, 168; baths for, 207; from 
drugs, 344. 

Headdress, 60. 

Health and disease, 3; defined, 3; and corsets, 56; and food 
frauds, 137; contagious, 234; and the atmosphere, 274; and 
thoughts, 296; hints, 347; laws of, 347. 

Hearing, sense of, 256. 

Heart, muscle, 9 ; beat, 10 ; daily work, 10 ; athletic, 41 ; beat and 
exercise, 45; dilatation of, 45; burn, diet for, 155; structure of, 
212; action of, 213; failure, 221. 

Heat rays, 15; stroke, 21; animal, 36; and exercise, 47; produced 



INDEX 403 

by body, 83; latent, 176; in high pressure, 228; a cause of dis- 
ease, 308. 

Heating compress, the, 228. 

" Heel raising " exercise, 42. 

Heels, rubber, 53. 

Hereditary immunity, 246. 

Heredity and personality, 265; and disease, 266, 348; and the 
nervous system, 266; cause of disease, 307. 

Herring, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Hiccough, 27. 

Hickory-nuts, 117; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

High blood pressure, effects of, 221; habits, 222; how lowered, 
227; wrong methods of treating, 230; results of, 358. 

High-pressure life, the, 219; living, 357. 

Hints on health, 347. 

Hogs and trichina, 333. 

Holiday, mid-week, 260; spirit of, 296. 

Home, the, and sunlight, 19; site for, 19. 

Honey, adulteration of, 139. 

Koodoos, 284. 

Hook worms, 333 ; disease, 335. 

Hormones, chemical messengers, 73. 

Hot weather clothing, 51; foods, dangers, 159; water drinking, 
194; baths, 205; blanket packs, 211. 

House, air space for, 19; foundation of, 20; ventilation, 270, 
349; temperature of, 272; diseases, 274, 349; tuberculous, 338. 

Household cares in worry, 289; dust, dangers from, 316; furnish- 
ings and disease, 318. 

Human body, structure of, 5; cells of, 6; light of, 23. 

Hydatid cysts, 334. 

Hydrochloric acid, 69. 

Hydrophobia, conquest of, 130; in general, 337. 

Hygiene, modern, 4; and sanitation, 306; of the air, 315. 

Hygienic spendthrifts, 4, 348; bathing, 119. 

Hypnotism, 295, 301. 

Hypochondria, 285. 

Hysteria, 285. 

I 

Ice, impure, 189; a typhoid carrier, 317. 
Ice bag, for weak heart, 233. 



404 INDEX 

Ice-cold foods, dangers of, 160. 

Ice cream, adulteration of, 136; a disease carrier, 336. 

Ice water, dangers, 182. 

Idiocy, 130. 

Immorality, diseases of, 345. 

Immunity, theory of, 245, 311. 

Incapsulation of germs, 239. 

Increase in germ diseases, 3. 

Indian clubs, 43, 351 ; head binding, 53. 

Industrial ventilation, 275 ; causes of worry, 289. 

Infant mortality and milk, 131 ; bathing, 207. 

Infants, kissing of, 323. 

Inflammatory exudate, 238. 

Influenza, 319. 

Insanity, 130; and alcohol, 231, 342. 

Insomnia, baths for, 204; treatment of, 262; from drugs, 344. 

Instinct of cells, i; man's natural, 2; in general, 264; natural, 
347- 

Intelligence, animal, 2; plant, 2. 

Internal respiration, 26; bath, the, 180. 

Intestinal villi, 8; anatomy, 65; juice, 74; movements, 75; fer- 
mentation, 225; worms, 361. 

Inventions and worry, 289. 

Invertase, 74. 

Involuntary muscles, 9, 36; nerves, 13. 

Irish moss, composition, etc., 371. 

Irritation as a cause of disease, 308. 

Isolation in disease, 341. 

Itch mite, the, 333. 

J 

Jams, 140. 

Jellies, fruit, 114; adulteration of, 140. 



Kellogg, Dr., on chair reform, 39. 

Kerosene and fleas, 330; and mosquitoes, 331. 

Kidney, the, in blood purification, 29; elimination of uric acid, 
79; in general, 195; overworked, 198; physiology of, 198; elim- 
ination of germs, 236. 



INDEX 405 



Kissing as a disease carrier, 322. 

Knickerbockers, 58. 

Koumiss, composition, etc., 379. 



Labor troubles and worry, 290. 

Lactic acid, 69. 

Lard, adulteration of, 133; composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Larynx, the, 25. 

Laws of health and disease, 3 ; of life, 347. 

Lead poisoning, tin cans, 137; drinking water, 189. 

Leeches, 333. 

Legumes, in general, 126; composition, calories, etc., 379. 

Lemonade, 184. 

Lemons, action on saliva, 67; in general, 114; composition, cal- 
ories, etc., 373. 

Lentils, 127; composition, calories, etc., 379. 

Leprosy, 332. 

Letters, disease-carriers, 319. 

Lettuce, 120; composition, calories, etc., 376. 

Leucocytes, 11; germ-destroyers, n, 244; in old age, 12, 243; 
wall of, 239; scavengers, 243. 

Libraries, disease dangers, 324. 

Lice, 333. 

Life, laws of, 347; natural, the, 347. 

Light, physics of, 15; rays, 15; velocity of, 15; and chlorophyl, 
16; germ-destroyer, 17; in the home, 19; and children, 20; 
from the body, 23. 

Limbs, clothing of, 57. 

Linen, as a heat-conductor, 45; underclothing, 50, 59; disinfec- 
tion of, 318. 

Liquid foods, diet list, 157; in general, 172. 

Liquids, expansion of, 178; equilibrium of, 178. 

Liver, blood purifier, 29; aided by breathing, 32; action on pro- 
teins, 79; circulation of, 215; toxin-destroyer, 241; anatomy 
of, 264 ; relation to worry, 299 ; " fluke " disease, 334 ; filter and 
furnace, 358. 

Lobster, composition, etc., 378. 

Lockjaw, 130; germs of, 317. 

Low blood pressure, treatment, 232. 



406 INDEX 

Lungs, epithelium of, 8; circulation of, 25, 214; capacity of, 28; 
blood purifiers, 29 ; unused capacity, 45 ; elimination of poisons, 

237- 

Lymph spaces, 10; cells, 12; glands, 12, 215; vessels, 213; circula- 
tion, 215; glands, function of, 244; germ fighters, 245. 

M 

Macaroni, 108; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Mackerel, composition, etc., 378. 

Macrophags, the, 243. 

Mad dogs, 337. 

Magnetic healing, 301. 

Maize, 107. 

Malaria, how caught, 34; fever, purpose of, 37; conquest of, 130; 
in general, 331. 

Malted nuts, calories, etc., 375. 

Maltose, 66. 

Man, natural instincts of, 2; outdoor animal, 18, 348; working 
machine, 37 ; moral being, 264 ; distinguished from animals, 
264; mightier than the microbe, 313. 

Manure, fly-breeder, 329. 

Maple syrup, 139. 

Massage for weak muscles, 57; in high blood pressure, 227; in 
low blood pressure, 232. 

Mastication, thorough, 144, 353; overdoing, 145; summary, 146; 
and condiments, 170. 

Meal hours, 151 ; intervals between, 161. 

Meals, mistakes made at, 159; drinking at, 172. 

Measles, sequelae, 311. 

Meat eating, in sunstroke, 21 ; in general, 121 ; preserved, 131 ; 
canned, adulterated, 133; eating, effects of, 168; digestibility, 
169; cooking, 174; and high pressure, 224; inspection, 334. 

Medicines, adulteration of, 142; patent, 344. 

Melancholia and idleness, 46. 

Memory and the leucocytes, 243. 

Men, breathing of, 27. 

Mental state and digestion, 153; work and digestion, 174; dis- 
eases from high blood pressure, 221 ; factors in high pressure, 
229 ; causes of worry, 282 ; idleness and worry, 283 ; healing, 
key of, 294; therapeutics and worry, 294; therapeutics, fraud- 
ulent, 301 ; rest, 359. 



INDEX 407 

Menus, 91 ; breakfast, 92 ; dinner, 95. 

Mesmerism, 301. 

Metabolism, definition, 77; and condiments, 170. 

Metchnikoff, on old age, 12. 

" Miasmas," a delusion, 33. 

Microbes destroyed by light, 17; purify water, 191; body's de- 
fence against, 234; how the body destroys, 240; how subdued, 
314; of the air, 315. 

Microphags as germ destroyers, 244. 

Milk, enzymes of, 66; in general, 125; and infant mortality, 131; 
adulterants, 134; contaminations, 134; preservatives, 134; 
standard of, 134, 336; condensed, adulteration of, 136; dis- 
ease-carrier, 335; microbes in, 335; composition, calories, etc., 

379- 

Millet, composition, etc., 371. 
Mincemeat, adulteration, 133. 
Mind, how beclouded, 30; and exercise, 46; relation to sleep, 261 ; 

diseases, 287; power over matter, 305. 
Mineral salts, 82; waters, 173; poisons, 310. 
Molasses, adulteration of, 139. 
Monkey, intelligence of, 264. 
Moral struggle and exercise, 46; causes of high pressure, 226; 

management of high pressure, 229 ; causes of worry, 285 ; ther- 
apeutics, 297; deception in therapeutics, 302. 
Morning bathing, 200. 
Morphine and high pressure, 230; effects of, 230; nerve poison, 

263; false friend, 358; effects on leucocytes, 359. 
Mosquitoes in malaria, 34; prevention of, 331; and disease, 331; 

disease-carriers, 361. 
Motor nerves, 252. 
Mountain sickness, 269. 

Mouth, the, 64; cleansing of, 211; breathing, 350. 
Movements of stomach and bowel, 75. 
Mucous membrane of stomach and bowel, 8. 
Muscles, 9; classification, 26; respiration of, 26; function of, 35; 

treatment of weak, 56, 57. 
Mushes, dangers of, 171. 

Mushrooms, energy of, 22; composition, calories, etc., 376. 
Muskmelons, 113. 

Mustard, adulteration of, 140; effects on stomach, 170. 
Mutton, 123; composition, calories, etc., 378. 



408 INDEX 

N 

Nails, finger, how formed, 8; disease-carriers, 320. 

Narcotics and sunstroke, 21. 

Natural instincts, man's, 2; breathing, 25; breathing, expansion 
in, 27; tonic, air, 28; immunity, 246; life, laws of, 347. 

Nature alone heals, 247. 

Nectarines, 114; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Nerve cells, 13; paths, 13, 251; energy, 253; impulses, 253; cells, 
in relation to thought, 258 ; foods, 263 ; poisons, 263. 

Nerves, classes of, 13; sympathetic, 13, 251; of the muscles, 36; 
of the skin, 197; of the heart, 213; anatomy of, 251 ; physiology 
of, 252; sympathetic, physiology of, 254. 

Nervous diseases, increase in, 130; prostration, 206; prostration, 
treatment, 263; system and heredity, 266; exhaustion, symp- 
toms, 360. 

Nervousness, baths for, 207; from drugs, 344. 

Neuralgia, low protein diet in, 85 ; diet in, 158. 

Neurasthenia, baths in, 206; in general, 285. 

Neuricity currents, 253. 

Neuron, the, 13, 251. 

Neutral bath, the, 204, 357; to lower blood pressure, 227. 

New Thought, 301. 

Night air, 33, 350; clothing, 61. 

Nitrogenous foods, 79. 

Nose, the, 256. 

Nourished life, the, 143. 

Nursery, location of, 20, 348. 

Nutrition of the body, 77; elements of, 79; disordered by condi- 
ments, 170; spiritual, 297. 

Nuts, 116; food tables, calories, etc., 375 



Oatmeal, composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Oats, 109; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Obesity, diet for, 158; baths in, 207. 

Obsession, 284, 

Odors, 257. 

Oils, lessen secretion, 70. 

Old age and leucocytes, 12 ; people, baths for, 208. 



INDEX 409 

Oleomargarine, composition, etc., 379. 

Olive oil, 114; adulteration of, 141. 

Olives, 114; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Omentum, the, 245. 

Onions, 120; composition, calories, etc., 376. 

Opsonin, in pneumonia, n; action of, 243. 

Optic nerve, 13. 

Oranges, 115; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Organ of Corti, 13. 

Oriental nations, diet of, 85. 

Orioles' nest, i. 

Outdoor life, the, and vitality, 18; bathing, 203; life, the, 267; 

bedrooms, 275; life, the, in tuberculosis, 338; sleeping, 340, 349. 
Over-dressing, dangers of, 58. 
Over-drinking, 194. 
Over-eating, effects of, 79; how prevented, 147; in general, 160; 

of proteins, 168, 354; and condiments, 170 
Over-training, results, 41. 
Over-working the kidneys, 198. 
Oxidase, 37. 

Oxidation of water impurities, 191 ; of toxins, 241. 
Oxygen exchange in lungs, 26; a tonic, 29; essential to life, 31; 

in the blood, 31; the fuel of the vital fire, 274; the vital fire; 

349; nature's tonic, 350; and outdoor life, 351. 
Oysters, in general, 123 ; poisoning by, 133 ; composition, calories, 

etc., 378. 
Ozone, 269. 



Packs, wet sheet, 211. 

Pain, purpose of, 2, 347; baths for, 210; killers, dangers of, 

265; mission of, 265. 
Pajamas, 61. 

Pale skin, baths for, 207. 
Pancreas, anatomy of, 65. 
Pancreatic juice, 73. 
Pandemic diseases, 311. 
Parasites, in drinking water, 190; animal, disease-cause, 311; 

carried by animals, 333 ; and pets, 336. 
Parsnips, 119; composition, calories, etc., 376. 
Partridgej calories, etc., 378. 



410 INDEX 

Pasteur institutes, 337. 

Pasteurizing milk, 66, 151. 

Pastries, adulteration of, 137; dangers from, 171. 

Patent medicines, in the spring, 217; in general, 344. 

Pawlow, physiological experiments of, 69; stomach of dog, 71. 

Pawpaw, enzymes of, 66. 

Peaches, 115; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Peanuts, 117; composition, calories, etc., 379. 

Pears, 115; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Peas, green, 120; dried, 127; green, composition, etc., 376; dried, 
composition, calories, etc., 379. 

Pecans, 117; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Pepper, 141. 

Pepsin, secretion of, 68. 

Peptogenic foods, 154. 

Peristalsis, 76. 

Personality, 265. 

Perversion of instincts, 2. 

Perverted breathing, 56; taste, 171. 

Pets as disease-carriers, 336, 361. 

Pharynx, the, 25. 

Physics of light, 15; of water, 176; of the atmosphere, 268. 

Physical exercise, 41 ; exercise and the mind, 46 ; work and di- 
gestion, 174; causes of worry, 287; treatment of worry, 298. 

Physiology of breathing, 26; of muscles, 35; of digestion, 65; 
of water drinking, 179; of kidneys, 196; of skin, 196; of cir- 
culation, 213; of brain, 252; of nerves, 252. 

Pickles, 141. 

Pie-plant, 67. 

Pies, composition, calories, etc., 381. 

Pigeon, composition, calories, etc., 378. 

Pignolia nuts, 117. 

Pike, composition, calories, etc., 378. 

Pin worms, 333. 

Pine nuts, 117; composition, calories, etc., 375. 

Pineapple, 115; composition, calories, etc., 373. 

Pink eye, 320. 

Plague, conquest of, 3; bubonic, 332; the great black, 345. 

Plants, 2; food builders, 16; in sleeping rooms, 16; respiration 
of, 16; energy gatherers, 17; starch builders, 80; salt builders, 
82. 



INDEX 411 

Pleura, the, 26. 

Pleurisy, cause of, 26. 

Plums, 115; composition, calories, etc., 374. 

Pneumonia germs, n; from exposure, 50, 59; a house disease, 
274; death rate of, 274; where contracted, 277. 

Poison, fly, 330. 

Poisoned foods, 129. 

Poisons, destroyed by exercise, 46; elimination of, 46; as a dis- 
ease carrier, 309; animal, 310; germ, 310; mineral, 310; vege- 
table, 310. 

Polluted wells, 188. 

Poor appetite, foods for, 154. 

Pork, 123; inspection of, 334; trichina in, 334; composition, cal- 
ories, etc., 378. 

Portal congestion, how relieved, 32; circulation, the, 215. 

Posture, standing and sitting, 38. 

Potatoes, Irish, 121 ; sweet, 121 ; sweet, composition, calories, etc., 
376; Irish, composition, etc., 376. 

Poultry, 122. 

Prayer, 264; therapeutic value of, 297. 

Precipitation of water impurities, 191. 

Preserved meats, 131. 

Prevention of disease, the, 306, 361. 

Prolapsus of internal organs, 38. 

Protein, assimilation of, 78; element of nutrition, 79; elimination 
of, 79; daily requirements, 85, 86; habit, the, 85; per cent in 
foods, 87; in hyperacidity, 155; excess of, 167; animal, 168; 
ashes, influence of, 168; over-eating of, 168, 354; vegetable, 
168; cooking of, 174; ashes, and the kidney, 198. 

Protoplasm, 6. 

Protose, calories, etc., 375. 

Proverbs and worry, 281. 

Prunes, composition, calories, etc., 374. 

Ptyalin of the saliva, 67. 

Public buildings, ventilation, 276, 349 ; drinking cup, 320, 361 ; 
funerals, dangers, 323; libraries, disease dangers, 324. 

Puddings, composition, calories, etc., 381. 

Pulmonary artery, 25; circulation, 25, 214; vein, 25. 

Pulse, the, 216. 

Pumpkins, 119; composition, calories, etc., 376. 



412 INDEX 

Pure air, natural tonic, 28; food laws, 133; water drinking, 176. 
Purification of water, 190. 

Q 

Quarantine, 341. 

Quinine, effects on leucocytes, 359. 



Rabbits, 123; composition, calories, etc., 378. 

Race and disease causes, 307. 

Radishes, 121 ; composition, calories, etc., 376. 

Radium, 22. 

Railway sewage, 324. 

Rainfall, evaporation of, 22. 

Rainwater, 185. 

Raisins, 115; composition, calories, etc., 374. 

Raspberries, 113; composition, calories, etc., 374. 

Ration, the balanced, 143. 

" Rats," cause of headache, 61. 

Rats as disease-carriers, 332, 362; and trichina, 334. 

Raw foods, 150; disease dangers, 323; required daily, 353. 

Raw meat, dangers, 334. 

Raw pork, dangers, 362. 

Rays of light and heat, 15. 

Reading at meals, 175. 

Reason, animal, 264. 

Recreation, value of, 259, 359; wholesome, 360. 

Red blood corpuscles, 10, 214; in respiration, 26. 

" Reducing " diet, 158. 

Reflex action, 253. 

Reformed chairs, 39. 

Regular exercises, 41 ; bathing, 195, 357 ; bathing, a necessity, 

357; rest, essential, 359. 
Relapsing fever, 333. 
Religion, human characteristic, 264; and worry, 285; value of, 

297. 

Relishes, adulteration of, 140; falsely named, 171. 
Rennin, action of, 68. 
Respiration, muscles of, 26; external, 26; physiology of, 26; 

process of, 26; rate of, 27; and mind, 30; and digestion, 32; 

and the blues, 33; and exercise, 41. 



INDEX 413 

Rest in lowering high blood pressure, 228; and sleep, 250; men- 
tal, 359- 

Resting posture, 260; natural, 360. 

Retina, the, 255. 

Reverse action of enzymes, 66; peristalsis, 76. 

Rheumatism, 79; low protein diet, 85; diet in, 158; drinking 
water in, 193; baths for, 205. 

Rhubarb, calories, etc., 376. 

Rice, 109; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Roots, power exerted by, 22. 

Round worms, 333. 

Rubber heels, 53. 

Rugs, 316. 

" Run down " feeling, 31. 

Rye, 109; composition, calories, etc., 371. 



Sabbath day's rest, 259, 260. 

Saccharine, 142. 

Sago, 109; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Salads, food tables, etc., 381. 

Salicylic acid, 134. 

Saliva, the, 67; and condiments, 174. 

Salivary glands, the, 64. 

Salmon, composition, etc., 378. 

Saloons, 232. 

Salsify, 121. 

Salt, doubtful value, 82; common table, 166; mineral, 167; vege- 
table, 167; excess, dangers of, 354. 

Salts, bile, 72; mineral, in nutrition, 82. 

Sanitation, 306, 361. 

Sauerkraut, composition, etc., 377. 

Sausage, adulteration of, 133. 

"Scaling" in contagious diseases, 318. 

Scarlet fever, and milk, 134, 335; sequelae, 311; contagion of, 
318; and pets, 336; and sweat shops, 345. 

School children, stunting of, 276; rooms, lighting, 276; ventila- 
tion, 276; children and fresh air, 349* 

Science and conquest of disease, 130. 

Screens, 328. 



414 INDEX 

Screw-worms, 333. 

Scrofula, 245. 

Sea water, 187; bathing, 203; food, a disease-carrier, 336. 

" Second wind," the, 45. 

" Secretin," a chemical messenger, 73. 

Secretion, of gastric juice, 69 ; theory of, 75 ; of urine, 198. 

Sedimentation of water, 190. 

Self-resistive exercises, 43, 352; poisoning and high pressure, 
225; consciousness and worry, 283; control and worry, 291, 
359; interest and worry, 295. 

Sensations, neglect of, 292. 

Senses, the special, 255. 

Sensible clothing, 352. 

Sensory nerves, action of, 252. 

Sewage, lake, 189; railway, 324. 

Shad, composition, etc., 378. 

" Sham feeding " of dogs, 71. 

Shivering, object of, 36. 

Shoes, 52; French heel, 52; thin-soled, 352. 

" Short sleeved " garments, 58. 

Sick headache, diet in, 85. 

Sighing, 27. 

Sight, sense of, 255; centre of brain, 256. 

Silk as a heat conductor, 49. 

Silk-worms, 2. 

Sitting posture, the, 38; improper, 40. 

Skin, the, area of, 8; epithelium of, 8; diseases, ancient, 19; in 
blood purification, 29; improved by exercise, 46; in general, 
195; physiology of, 196; pale, 196; care of, 197; nerves of, 
197; pale, baths for, 207; germ-proof, 235; elimination of 
germs, 236; disease, spread of, 320; disease, and books, 324. 

Skirts, how to suspend, 58; heavy, 353. 

Sleep, and nervous system, 36; and blood pressure, 228; in gen- 
eral, 250; and energy granules, 253; and hearing, 256; value 
of> 259 ; posture in, 260 ; requisites for sound, 260 ; worry about, 
293; relation to worry, 296; amount required, 359; conditions 
favoring, 360. 

Sleeping rooms, plants in, 16; porches, 275; car berths, 319; 
sickness, 330; outdoor, 349. 

Sleeplessness, baths for, 204; from drugs, 244; in general, 262. 

Slums, the city, 345; a disease-spreader, 361. 



INDEX 415 

Smallpox, conquest of, 130; vaccination in, 246; and bedbugs, 

332. 

Smell, sense of, 256. 
Snake bites, 310. 
Sneezing, 27. 
Snowball, energy of, 24. 
Snowwater, 185. 
Social causes of worry, 289; treatment of worry, 299; disease, 

spread of, 345. 

Soda water, adulteration of, 142. 
Sodium chlorid, 82. 

Soil, of disease, the, 312; contamination of, 317. 
Solar heaters, 21. 
Solar plexus, the, 132, 252. 
Soponification, 72. 

Soup, objections to, 172; food tables, etc., 381. 
Sour stomach, diet for, 155. 
Sowing and reaping, 347. 
Spectroscope, 16. 
Speech, 28. 
Spiders, 2. 

Spinach, composition, etc., 376. 
Spinal cord, cells of, 14; curvature and chairs, 38; how formed, 

254- 

Spine, curvature of, 33 ; natural curve of, 38. 
Spiritual causes of worry, 285; nutrition, the, 297; therapeutics, 

297. 

Spitting and tuberculosis, 18, 338. 

Spring tonics, delusion of, 29; water, 185; tonics, 217. 
Squashes, 120; composition, calories, etc., 377. 
Squirrels and the plague, 332. 
Stair-climbing exercises, 42. 
Standing position, proper, 40. 
Starch, formation of, 16; digestion of, 67; digestion of, in 

stomach, 75; assimilation of, 78; elimination of, 79; form of, 

80; element in nutrition, 80; fuel value of, 84; cooking of, 

no, 174; insufficient cooking of, 171. 
Starvation, 309. 

Steamship berths, disease dangers, 319. 
Steapsin, 73. 
Stomach action and breathing, 32; anatomy of, 64; emptying of, 



41 6 INDEX 

69; sample, of dogs, 71; and solid food, 72, 76; dilated, cause, 
72; why does not digest itself, 74; movements of, 75; bitters, 
148; sour, 153; catarrh of, diet, 156; rest necessary for, 161. 

Straw hats, 60. 

Strawberries, 115; composition, calories, etc., 374. 

Street dust, dangers, 315; sprinkling, 316; cars and disease, 319. 

Strenuous life, the, 226; effects of, 358. 

Sturgeon, composition, etc., 378. 

Succotash, composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Suffocation, 309. 

Sugar, formation of, 16; assimilation of, 78; elimination of, 79; 

. fruit, 81 ; fuel value, 84 ; adulteration of, 138 ; laxative effects, 

155; excess, dangers of, 354; composition, calories, etc., 381. 

Sugar cane, adulteration of, 139; in general, 165; effects on di- 
gestion, 166. 

Suggestion in treatment of worry, 294; true and false, 294. 

Suggestive therapeutics, 196. 

Sulphur a disinfectant, 34; laxative, 218; fumigant, 315. 

Sun energy, 21. 

Sunbaths, method of taking, 20; value of, 20; in high pressure, 
228, daily, 348. 

Sunburn, 16, 197. 

Sunlight, 15; chlorophyl, action on, 16; germicidal action, 17; vi- 
tal resistance and, 18; and children, 20; effects on carpets, 20; 
disinfectant action, 348; and health, 348. 

Sunshine, 16; and the home, 19; fountain of energy, 348. 

Sunstroke, treatment of, 21 ; favored by, 47. 

Supporters, abdominal, 57. 

Suprarenal gland, 196. 

Supreme Being, trust in, 291, 298. 

Surgical operations and social diseases, 346. 

Swamps, drainage, and mosquitoes, 332. 

Sweat glands, 8; pores, area of, 8; daily, 44; area of, 195. 

Sweat shops and disease, 345. 

Sweetbreads, composition, etc., 378. 

Swimming, precautions in, 209. 

Swine and trichina, 333. 

Sympathetic nerves, 13, 36; muscles, and, 36; anatomy of, 251; 
physiology of, 254. 

Syphilis, hereditary, 266; spread of, 320; extent of, 346. 

Syrup, adulteration of, 139. 



INDEX 417 

T 

Table of foods containing 100 calories, 97. 

Tapioca, 109; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Tarantula, i. 

Taste buds, 64. 

Taste, perverted, 171 ; sense of, 257. 

Tea, action on saliva, 67; in high blood pressure, 223; drinker's 
disorder, 224 ; nerve poison, 263 ; predisposes to disease, 344 ; 
stimulant action, 354. 

Teeth, the, 64; cleansing of, 211. 

Temperature of house, 272; of living rooms, 349. 

Tendons, 9. 

Therapeutics, suggestive, 196; spiritual, 297. 

Thinking in relation to breathing, 30; process of, 258. 

Thorax, the, 26. 

Thorium, 22. 

Thrush, composition, etc., 378. 

Thyroid gland and toxins, 241. 

Tight lacing and decadence, 56. 

" Tired feeling," baths for, 207. 

Tissue, subcutaneous, 9. 

Tissues, bodily, 7. 

Toasts, food tables of, 380. 

Tobacco, sunstroke, and, 21; saliva, effects of, on, 67; and 
high blood pressure, 222; amount used, 223; nerve poison, 
263 ; predisposes to disease, 344. 

Tomatoes, 116; composition, calories, etc., 374. 

Tonic bathing, 206. 

Tonic, baths a natural, 200. 

Touch, sense of, 257. 

Toxins, destroyed by exercise, 46; elimination of, 236; diluted, 
how, 240; how destroyed, 240; liver action on, 241; oxida- 
tion of, 241. 

Trachea, the, 25. 

" Trains," fashionable, 60. 

Trees, exhalations of, 22. 

Trout, composition, etc., 378. 

Trunk bending in constipation, 44. 

Trypsin, 73. 

Tuberculosis, sunlight in, 17; spread by spitting, 18, 338; sun- 



INDEX 

baths for, 20; not inherited, 266; a house disease, 2/4; and 
domestic pets, 336; death rate, 337; how contracted, 338; cure 
of, 339; prevention of, 339; in sweat shops, 345. 

Turbinate bones, 25. 

Tumors and corsets, 55. 

Turkey, composition, calories, etc., 378. 

Turnips, 119; composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Turtle, composition, etc., 378. 

Typhoid fever and milk, 335. 

U 

Ulcer, how caused, 69; gastric, diet in, 157. 

Underclothing, question of, 59. 

Underwear, cotton and linen, 59, 353. 

Union suit, the, 60. 

Unsanitary surroundings, 313. 

Urinary tubules, 196; deposits, 198. 

Urine, secretion of, 198; disinfection of, 318. 



Vaccination, theory of, 246; in general, 311. 

Veal, composition, etc., 378. 

Vegetable oyster, 121 ; juices, aid to digestion, 155 ; poisons, dis- 
ease-cause, 310. 

Vegetables, 118; cooking of, 174; disease-carriers, 316; food ta- 
bles, 375; composition, calories, etc., 377. 

Vegetarianism, 169. 

Veils, effect on eyes, 60. 

Veins, structure of, 10, 213. 

Velocity of light, 15. 

Venereal diseases, 346. 

Venison, 123, composition, etc., 378. 

Ventilation, problem of, 19; of the cellar, 20; in general, 270; 
stove, 270; and the chimney, 271 ; air changes, 271 ; air required, 
271 ; air flushing, 272 ; inlets and outlets, 273 ; and poisonous 
gases, 273; industrial, 275; of bedrooms, 275; of public build- 
ings, 276; of schools, 276; of lecture halls, 277; and disease, 

319. 
Villi, intestinal, 76. 



INDEX 419 

Vinegar, action on saliva, 67 ; adulteration of, 141 ; in high blood 

pressure, 229. 
Vital resistance and sunlight, 18, 348; how to increase, 247; how 

lowered, 313; and the soil, 349. 
Vocal cords, the, 25. 
Voice box, the, 25. 
Voice, the human, 28. 
Voluntary muscles, 9, 35; nerves, 13. 

W 

Waist, constriction of, 54; measurements of, 55. 

" Waking up tired " feeling, 360. 

Walking exercises, 42, 352 ; in constipation, 44. 

Walnuts, 117. 

Wands, 43. 

Water, expansion of, 24 ; element of nutrition, 83 ; drinking, pure, 
*3i 3i6, 356; drinking, physiology of, 179; daily requirement, 
181 ; ideal beverage, 183, 356; purified by fruit acid, 184; sources 
of, 185; river, 186; well, 186; lake, 187; hard, 187; distilled, 
187, 192; soft, 187; contamination of, 188; sedimentation of, 
190; parasites in, 190; purification of, 190; sparkling, 190; 
worms in, 190; adulterated, 192; boiled, 192; in disease, 193; 
carbonated, 194; drinking in low pressure, 233. 

Water plants, 191. 

Water-proof clothing, 52. 

Watermelons, 116; calories, etc., 374. 

Weather, worry about, 280. 

Wells, polluted, 188; driven, 189. 

Wet sheet packs, 211. 

Wheat, no; composition, calories, etc., 371. 

Whey, 379. 

Whisper, 28. 

White blood cells, 358. 

White blood corpuscles, n; germ destroyers, n, 243, 244; in old 
age, 12; wall of, 239; digestive function of, 240. 

White fibrous tissue, 9. 

White fish, composition, calories, etc., 378. 

Whooping cough, sequelae, 311. 

Whortleberries, 113. 

Wiley, Dr., on food preservatives, 131. 



420 INDEX 

Windows, value of, 348. 

Windpipe, the, 25. 

Woman, why weaker vessel, 53. 

Woman, breathing of, 27. 

Wool, a heat conductor, 49. 

Work, average day's, 42; enjoyable, 43, 300; promotes diges- 
tion, 44; vs. rust, 283. 

World, velocity of, 23 ; weight of, 23. 

Worms, in water, 190; intestinal, 317; hook, 333; pin, 333; round, 
333; screw, 333; tape, 333; from domestic pets, 336. 

Worry, relation to sunstroke, 21; relation to breathing, 30; di- 
gestion, effects on, 71 ; cause of high pressure, 225 ; general 
causes of, 278; definition of, 278; temperamental, 279; mental 
causes of, 282; circle, the, 282; moral causes of, 285; spiritual 
causes of, 285; diseases of, 285; religion in, 286; physical 
causes of, 287; childish, 287; habit, the, 288; old age, 288; re- 
sults of, 288; industrial causes of, 289; social causes of, 289; 
cure of, 291; self-control and, 291; fictitious, 292; mental 
therapeutics in, 294 ; suggestion in, 294 ; selfishness in, 295 ; 
about worry, 296; moral therapeutics in, 297; physical treat- 
ment of, 298; social therapeutics in, 299; fraudulent treatment 
of, 301; uselessness of, 359; tired feelings in, 360. 

Wounds, danger of tetanus, 317. 

X 

X-rays, 23. 



Yale University, diet tests, 169. 

Yawning, 27. 

Yeast plant, 5. 

Yellow elastic tissue, 9. 

Yellow fever, conquest of, 130; and mosquitoes, 331. 

Z 

Zwieback, calories, etc., 372. 



'nvaana 



to 




inwan 

OMOH01 JO 



