
Class —IZZXi^J^ 

Book. ^ <^ 

Gopi#W 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

A TEXT IN COOKING 

AND 

SYLLABUS IN SEWING, 



Prepared for Use in the Kansas City Ele- 
mentary Schools, Yet Eminently Fitted 
for Home Work; Containing, in Un- 
technical Language, All the 
Fundamental Theories of 
Foods and Their 
Functions, 

Together with More than Two Hundred Recipes 

and Thirty Illustrations Designed to Demon- 

, strate Those Theories and to Make 

a Comprehensive Cook Book 

for School, College, and 

Family Use. 



SECOND EDITION, 
REVISED AND ENLARGED. 



BT 
GERTRUDE T. JOHNSON 



Published by 

THE BURTON PUBLISHING CO. 

Kansas City, Mo. 

igii 



.^^ 



<u 



Copyrighted by 

Gertrude T. Johnson 

1910-1911 



©CI.A283908 



^ 



PREFACE 



TO THE PUBLIC: 



And I must "Write a Preface, 
Whereon the World may look' 

Slight use to read a preface; 
Read the Book. 



April ist, igii. 



Gertrude T. Johnson, 

Kansas City, Mo., 



4 



SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS 



COOKING. 

PART I. 
Syllabus of the Course; for the Teacher's Use. 

PART II. 
Text for the Pupils of the Seventh Scholastic Year. 

PART III. 
Text for the Pupils of the Eighth Scholastic Year. 

PART IV. 
Appendix; for Additional Work and General Reference. 

PART V. 
Lrght Cooking Equipment for a Class of Twenty-four 
Pupils. Manual Training Equipment for a Class of Twenty 
four Pupils. 

SEWING. 

PART VI. 
General Suggestions. 

PART VII. 
Syllabus of the Course for the Sixth Scholastic Year. 

PART VIII. 
Syllabus of the Course for the Seventh Scholastic Year. 

PART IX. 
Syllabus of the Course for the Eighth Scholastic Year. 

7 



1 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

PART 1. 

COOKING. 

Syllabus of the Course; for the Teachers' Use. 

Note. — In every lesson the foodstuffs used in the prac- 
tical work should be discussed briefly, with regard to their 
physiological use, classification, and comparative food values. 

The hygienic phase of the work should be emphasized at 
every available point. We do not live to eat; we eat to live. 

SEVENTH YEAR. 

Lesson 1 

Sanitary Housekeeping. Dust, dirt, and mould in the 

home; danger of dark rooms; importance of fresh air and 

sunlight; general directions for sweeping and dusting; danger 

in carpets; their disinfection; in tapestry. 

Practical Work. Sweeping and dusting the kitchen 
and furnishings; washing of dust cloths. 

Lesson 2. 

Sanitary Housekeeping. Dishwashing; care of dish- 
towels, dish-cloths, sink, garbage, garbage-can, boards and tables, 
refrigerators; care of knives, forks, and spoons, cooking uten- 
sils; use of boiling water as a germ destroyer; of sal soda. 

Practical Work. Washing, scalding, and wiping 
of the dishes and cooking utensils, making practical ap- 
plication of the theories presented in the lesson. 

Lesson 3. 
Measurements. The necessity for accuracy. 
Practical Work. Making the table of cooking 
measurements, by use of coarse salt, and of water, as ma- 

9 



10 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

terial; use of salt spoon, teaspoon, tablespoon, gill measure, 
cup, half-pint, and quart. 

Lesson 4. 

Food. Its general functions; the five food principles, 
and their physiological uses, in brief; classification of com- 
mon food-stuflFs, with regard to their comparative food 
values. 

Practical Work. Cooking rolled oats, serving with 
milk and sugar. 

L£SS(iN 5. 

Albumen. Its principal sources, eggs, meat, and fish; 
the eflFects of heat upon it; of cold water. 

Practical Work. Tests for fresh eggs; tests of the 
effects of hot water on the eggs; of cold water. Toasting 
bread, soft-boiling of eggs; serving eggs on toast 

Lesson 6. 

Gluten. Its principal sources, cereals; comparative 
methods of cooking fine and coarse cereals. 

Practical Work. Cooking cream of wheat; serving 
with milk and sugar. 

Lesson 7. 

Casein. Animal casein; its principal source, milk. 
Vegetable casein; its principal sources, legumes. 

Practical Work. Making cottage cheese; boiling 
Lima beans previously soaked in water; serving. 

Lesson 8. 
Starch. Its principal sources, cereals and vegetables; 
potatoes; comparative values of potatoes baked and potatoes 
boiled. 

Practical Work. Boiling rice and baking potatoes; 
serving. 

Lesson 9. 
Sugar. Its principal sources, cane, fruits, vegetables; 



COOKING 11 

Its commercial classes, crystallized and granulated; compara- 
dvt values; economy in buying. 

Practical Work. Making fondant. 

Lesson 10. 

Water. Its physiological and its general uses, its sub- 
stitutes as a beverage, tea, coflFee, cocoa; the source and nature 
of each; eflFect of each upon the nervous system. 

Practical Work. Making tea, coffee, and cocoa; 
serving optional. 

Lesson 11. 

Animal Fats and Oils. Their principal sources, milk, 
meat, and fish. Examples; butter, butter oil, lard, tallow, 
and fish oil. 

Practical Work. Sauteing potatoes; serving. 

Lesson 12. 

Animal Fats and Oils. Discussion of the dangers of 
impure milk, rancid butter, oils, and fats; decomposing 
meats; methods of preservation. 

Practical Work. Pasteurizing milk. 

Lesson 13. 

Vegetable Oils. Their principal sources, cereals, 
fruits, and nuts. Examples: cotton-seed oil, olive oil, almond 
oil, cocoanut oil; common food uses of each; comparative 
values of lard and cooking oil (cotton-seed), in cooking. 

Prcatical Work. French frying potatoes in cooking 
oil; serving. 

Lesson 14. 

Mineral Substances. The chief mineral substances 
found in the body, sulphur, phosphorus, lime, potassium, 
sodium, iron, salt; essential to life; their functions; principal 
sources, green vegetables, cereals, and water. 

Practical Work. Evaporation of a solution of salt 
and water, to shov/ how mineral substances are held in so- 



12 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

lution in water, hence in juices. Making cabbage salad; 
serving with French dressing. 

Lesson 15. 
Acids. Not a food principle; their function when 
used with foods; their principal natural sources, fruits and 
vegetables; acid beverages and acid fruits for the sick. 

Practical Work. Making lemonade and baking 
apples; serving. 

Lesson 16. 
Vegetable Soups. Their great nutritive value; com- 
parative values of fresh, dried, and canned vegetables for 
soups. 

Practical Work. Tomato soup; Lima bean soup; 
serving. 

Lesson 17. 

Vegetable Soups. Vegetables suitable for drying; for 
canning; the opening and care of canned vegetables or fruit. 

Practical Work. Potato soup; dried pea soup; 
serving with croutons. ^ 

Lesson 18. 

Breadstuffs. The common cereals used as bread- 
stuffs; samples of the grains; of the flours; comparative food 
values of bolted and unbolted flours; bleached and unbleach- 
ed flour; expansion of batter by heat and air. 

Practical Work. Making popovers. 

Lesson 19. 

Leavening. Leavening by gas; formation of gas by 
combination of acids and alkalies; demonstration by use of 
cream of tartar and bi-carbonate of soda. 

Practical Work. Making pancake batter with cream 
of tartar and bi-carbonate of soda; baking; serving. 

Lesson 20. 
Leavening. Review of previous lessons on leavening; 
leavening with sour milk and soda. 



COOKING 13 

Practical Work. Making pancake batter with sour 
milk and soda as leavening; baking pancakes; serving. 

Lesson 21. 

Leavening. Review of previous lessons on leavening. 
Combination of cream of tartar and bi-carbonate of soda to 
form baking powder. 

Practical Work. Making and canning baking 
powder. 

Lesson 22. 

Quick Breads. Review of gluten, starch, sugar, and 
previous processes of leavening. 

Practical Work. Making and baking wheat flour 
muffins. 

Lesson 23. 

Quick Breads. Compare thick batters and thin bat- 
ters. The effect of fats on batters. 

Practical Work. Making corn-meal muffins; baking. 

Lesson 24. 
Quick Breads. Bi-carbonate of soda and molasses as 
leavening; classification of ginger as a food stuff. 

Practical Work. Making of soft ginger bread; 
baking. 

Lesson 25. 

Quick Breads. Review of leavening and batters. 
Doughs. 

Practical Work. Making baking powder biscuits; 
baking; drop biscuits. 

Lesson 26. 
Quick Breads. Review of leavening, batters, and 
dough. 

Practical Work. Making sour milk biscuits; baking. 

Lesson 27. 
Quick Breads. Review of the egg; the nutritive val- 



14 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

ues of its respective parts; sugar; classification of vanilla as m 
food stuff. 

Practical Work. Making su^ar cookies. 

Lesson 28. 
Quick Breads. General review of the subject of quick 
breads. 

Practical Work. Making molasses cake; baking. 

Lesson 29. 

Meats. Composition of meats; comparative food val- 
ues and expense of different kinds of meat; the effect of hot 
water upon them; of cold water; of dry heat; how to know 
fresh meats; meat for soup stock. 

Practical Work. Making soup stock and canning 
for use. 

Lesson 30. 

Meats. The economic use of the water in which meat 
has been boiled; in which vegetables have been boiled. 

Practical Work. Making macaroni soup with the 
stock previously prepared; serving. 

Lesson 31. 

Broths. Discussion of their great nutritive value; 
their importance to the sick; the addition of cereals to in- 
crease their nourishment. 

Practical Work. Making chicken broth with rice; 
with barley; Serving. 

Lesson 32. 

Milk and Eggs. Review of the food value and care 
of each; the thickening properties of eggs. 

Practical Work. Making plain cup custard; caramel 
sauce; serving. 

Lesson 33. 
Milk and Eggs. Review of each subject. Methods 
of utilizing stale bread and cake; injurious effects of mouldy 
bread and cake. 



COOKING 15 

Practical Work. Making of bread pudding, using 
stale bread; vanilla sauce; making of rice pudding; baking; 
serving. 

Lesson 34. 

Milk. Review of pasteurizing milk; the nutritive val- 
ue of milk; use in combination with cereals. Value of gruels 
for the sick. 

Practical Work. Making milk gruel with cornmeal; 
with oat-meal; serving. 

Lesson 35. 

Canning. Preservation of food by sterilization; other 
methods of preservation; wholesome and unwholesome 
methods of canning; tin cans compared with glass cans; 
selection of fruits and their preparation for canning; selection 
and preparation of cans or jars; process of canning. 

Practical Work. Canning seasonable fruit. 
Lesson 36. 

Table-Setting and Serving. A diagram of the loca- 
tion of the different articles of tableware; table serving. 

Lesson 37. 

Written or Oral Test of the Year's Work. 
Grades. 

Lesson 38. 
Teacher's Reports. 

EIGHTH YEAR. 
Lesson 1. 
Sanitary Housekeeping. Care of the range; fuel 
and combustion; soft water and hard water compared; the 
difference in their composition; sanitary properties of 
alkalies; their domestic utility; care of plumbing, cellars, bath- 
rooms; use of disinfectants; temperature of rooms; ventilation. 
Practical Work. Tests for hard water; use of alka- 
lies to soften hard waters; use of disinfectants. 



16 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson 2. 

Starch. Review of previous lesson on starch, and 
starch producing products, Potato starch, rice starch, corn 
starch; their respective domestic uses. 

Practical Work, Making potato starch; boiling, 
mashing, and ricing potatoes; serving. 

Lesson 3. 

Cereals. Their food value and digestibility when 
served with fruits; comparative economy in use of raw cereals 
and steamed-cooked market preparations. 

Practical Work. Cooking rice as a vegetable; as a 
desert, with fruit; serving. 

Lesson 4. 

Fruits. Review of value of mineral salts in foods; of 
acids. Comparison of fruits, fresh, dried, canned. Danger 
of over-ripe fruits; of unripe fruits. Common fruits and 
methods of cooking them. 

Practical Work. Making apple sauce and baking 
bananas; serving. 

Lesson 5. 

Fruits. Review of the subject. Cooling beverages 
for the sick, their nutritive values; fruit juices as beverages. 

Practical Work. Preparation of apple water, currant 
water, and grape water; serving. 

Lesson 6. 

Eggs. Review of composition and food value. The 
egg as a perfect food; economy in its use. Digestibility as 
affected by high temperature; by low temperature. 

Practical Work. Making toast and poaching eggs; 
serving eggs on toast. Preparing albumenized milk as a 
beverage for the sick; serving. 

Lesson 7. 
Milk. Review of its composition, its properties, its 



COOKING 17 

nutritive values; its care. Danger of sour milk. Rennet, its 
source and properties. 

Prcatical Work. Demonstration of the action of 
rennet on milk. Making rennet custard; making milk por- 
ridge; serving. 

Lesson 8. 

Vegetables. Classes in common use; their relative 
nutritive values; comparative values of different methods of 
cooking. 

Practical Work. Preparing scalloped potatoes; 
boiling turnips, serving with white sauce. 

Lesson 9. 

Flour Pastes. The composition, use, and compara- 
tive values of macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli; their food 
values in combination with meats, vegetables, etc 

Practical Work. Macaroni boiled, then baked with 
tomato sauce; serving. 

Lesson 10. 
Breakfast. Planning, cooking, and serving a simple 
breakfast, consisting of one fruit, one cereal, one quick 
bread; eggs; co£Fee or cocoa. 

Lesson 11. 

Meats. Review of their composition. EflFects of hot 
water, of cold water, of dry heat. A diagram of the diflFerent 
cuts of beef. Discussion of the diflFerent cuts as located in 
the diagram; utility of tough cuts; comparative expense of 
tough cuts; of tender cuts. 

Practical Work. Preparation of beef stew with 
vegetables, from tough cut; serving. 

Lesson 12. 

Meats. Review of diagram of cuts of beef. The best 
cuts for boiling. 

Practical Work. Pan-broiling beef iteak; brown 
gravy; serving. 



18 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson 13. 

Meats. Review of previous lessons on meats. Cuts 
for roasting; expense; methods of roasting. 

Practical Work. Roasting beef, making brown gravy 
with roast; carving, and serving at table. 

Lesson 14. 

Fish. Composition, cost, and nutritive value com- 
pared with meats; tests for freshness. 

Practical Work. Sauteing halibut, haddock, or cat- 
fish; serving. 

Lesson 15. 

Fish. Review of previous lesson; garnishing; various 
fish sauces. 

Practical Work. Boiling fish; garnishing with boil- 
ed eggs; serving with drawn butter sauce. 

Lesson 16. 
Fish. Review of fish. Market preparations of codfish; 
methods of cooking. 

Practical Work. Preparation of creamed codfish; 
serving. 

Lesson 17. 
Fish. Review, optional. 

Practical Work. Making of codfish balls; fried fish; 
serving. 

Lesson 18. 
Oysters. Composition and nutritive value as com- 
pared with meat and fish; danger of stale oysters. 
Practical Work. Stewing oysters; serving. 

Lesson 19. 

Poultry. Marketing; tests for freshness; selection ol 
young fowls. Chicken; its nutritive value; methods of cook- 
ing. 

Practical Work. Frying chicken, Southern method; 
serving. 



COOKING 19 

Lesson 20. 

Poultry. Review of previous lesson. Danger of stale 
poultry from keeping it long on ice. Method of roasting 
fowl. 

Practical Work. Preparation of a chicken for roast- 
ing; roasting; making gravy for roast; carving at table; serving 
with cranberrv sauce. 

Lesson 21. 

Salads. Review of nutritive value of mineral salts 
found in green vegetables and fruits; value of cheese in 
salads. 

Practical Work. Preparing cabbage salad, serving 
with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Lesson 22. 

Cake. Review of the principles of leavening. Cake 
made with butter; cake made without butter. 

Practical Work. Mixing and baking standard cake. 

Lesson 23. 

Cake. Review of eggs as leavening; of acids and alkal- 
ies as leavening. 

Practical Work. Making sponge cake. 

Lesson 24. 

Doughnuts. Review of fats and oils; their eflFects on 
dough. 

Practical Work. Making doughnuts; frying in cook- 
ing oil, (cotton-seed oil). 

Lesson 25. 

Desserts. Review of properties and nutritive value of 
corn starch and vanilla. Composition of tapioca. 

Practical Work. Making tapioca pudding: serving. 

Lesson 26. 
Milk Toast. Review of properties and nutritive val- 



20 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

ues of milk; of bread. Changes produced in bread by 
toasting. Value of toast. 

Practical. Work. Making milk toast; serving. 

Lesson 27. 

Table Service. Duties of host, hostess, guest, and 
waiter. 

Practical Work. Planning a simple supper; table 
setting and serving. 

Lesson 28. 
Bread. Review leavening. Yeast. Effects of mixing, 
kneading, and rising. Relation of yeast bread to quick bread, 
Practical Work. Mixing and kneading white bread; 
quick process. 

Lesson 29. 

Bread. Comparative review of flours. Review of 
yeast. 

Practical Work. Moulding of white bread. 

Lesson 30. 
Bread. Review, at option of teacher. 
Practical Work. Baking white bread. 

Lesson 31. 
Rolls and Buns. Digestibility and food value of yeast 
breads compared with quick breads. 

Practical Work. Raised muffins. 

Lesson 32. 
Rolls and Buns. Comparison of roll, bread, and bun 

doughs. 

Practical Work. Parker House rolls. 

Lesson 33. 

Jellies. Use of sugar as a preservative. Selection 
and preparation of fruits for jellies. Preparation of glasses 
and jars. Methods of making jelly. 

Practical Work. Making jelly of seasonable fruit 



COOKING 21 

Lesson 34. 

Canning. Review of methods of preserving fruiti and 
vegetables Preparation of jars; of fruits. Process of can- 
ning. 

Practical Work. Canning seasonable fruit. 

Lesson 35. 
Table Service. Practice in planning a simple din- 
ner; duties of host, hostess; waiter. Pupils act as guests. 

Lesson 36. 
Practical Work. Preparation of a simple dinner 
serving invited guests. 

Lesson 37. 
Oral or Written Examination. 

Lesson 38. 
Pupils' Grades. 



COOKING 

PART II. 

SEVENTH YEAR. 
Lesson 1. 

Dirt is anything unclean. It may be animal, vegetable 
or mineral. 

Dust is of the same composition as dirt. It is dirt 
powdered so fine as to float in the air. 

Dust Plants grow from tiny seeds, or germs, that 
float in the air as dust. They are classed as moulds, yeasts, 
and bacteria. 

Moulds are fungi of considerable size, easily visible to 




Fig. 1. 



the naked eye, composed of thread-like tubes. Some are 
white, some blue, green, brown, black, or red. They grow 

22 



COOKING 23 

upon all kinds of material and have a variety of forms. 
They grow and multiply rapidly in warm, moist places, and 
destroy food, clothing, etc. Mildew is a form of mould. 
Moulds begin to grow on the outside of food, as bread, 
cheese, etc., and branch out and grow down into the food, 
like the roots of a plant. Rotting is only the process of 
mould growth. 

To prevent mould, protect from dust and keep in dry 
places. 

Figure 1 is a highly magnified specimen of common 
green mould. It may be frequently seen on bread, cake, 
etc The delicate spores at the top, are light and feathery, 
and are easily detached and blown into the air, where they float 
as dust plants. The stalks, or stems, grow down into the bread 
or other articles upon which they feed, just as the roots of our 
common shrubs grow down into the ground. As these 
roots take up, or eat up, the nutrient part of the bread nec- 
essary to their life, the chemical change in the bread is called 
rotting, or decaying: 

Yeasts and Bateria are germs so small, that it 
would take from 10,000 to 50,000 of them, laid side by side, 




Fig. 2. 



to make a line one inch in length. They can be seen only 
by the use of the microscope; hence, are called microbes. 

Yeast is the plant that produces fermentation, or 
"working," in many liquids and moist mixtures, as grape 



24 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

juice, preserves, etc. Yeast will be discussed more fully, later 
in the course. 

Figure 2 is a highly magnified group of yeast plants. 
They multiply by sending out little buds, as you see in the 
figure, which break off from the larger part and become new 
plants, to bud in turn. 

Bacteria are the smallest and simplest of known living 
things. Each one is a jelly-like, colorless, and nearly trans- 
parent cell. Their home is mostly in the upper layers of 
the earth, but they are carried everywhere by the winds, the 
rain, and the snow. They are in the air we breathe, the food 
we eat, the water we drink; they are on the bodies of men 
and animals, in their mouths, under their nails. They re- 
quire moisture for their growth. Many require heat for 
their growth, but some grow at a freezing temperature. They 
multiply rapidly, doubling about every five minutes, under 
proper conditions of temperature and moisture. As they 




Fig. 3. 

grow, some kinds of bacteria throw o£F poisonous substances, 
which produce diseases of different kinds. Some kinds of 
bacteria are harmless. As we cannot tell, readily, the danger- 
ous kinds, we try to destroy all. All dust and dirt should be 
destroyed by burning. Dark, damp places are favorable to 
the growth of bacteria, while fresh air and sunlight are great 
disinfectants. 

Figure 3 shows a group of highly magnified bacteria, of 
various forms and sizes. They, too, multiply by budding, 
like the yeast plant 



COOKING 25 

Lesson 2. 

Care of Dish-Towels and Dish-Cloths. All towels 
and cloths used in housekeeping should be hemmed; and 
each cloth should be used only for the purpose for which it 
was intended. Dish-towels and dish-cloths should be careful- 
ly washed, scalded, and dried, after each using. Dried out of 
doors, if possible. 

Care of the Sink. When the dish-washing is finish- 
ed, wash every part of the sink with soap and hot water. 
Wash above and around the sink, clean behind the sink 
pipes with a wooden skewer. Flush the sink with boiling 
water every day, and with a strong solution of sal soda once 
each week. 

Care of Garbage and Garbage Can. All Garbage 
should be burned. In the home it may be drained through a 
sink strainer, and burned, without using a can. If a can is 
used, it should be emptied after every meal, the garbage burn- 
ed, and the can thoroughly washed with hot water and soap. 
The can should be thoroughly scalded with a strong solution 
of sal soda once each week. 

Care of the Refrigerator. The refrigerator should 
be examined carefully each day, to see that no food is left to 
spoil. Once a week the food should all be taken from the 
refrigerator, and every part of the refrigerator should be 
washed with a strong "solution of sal soda and hot water, 
using a small broom; while the waste-pipe should be flushed 
with a similar solution. After the washing is completed, 
the refrigerator should be wiped thoroughly with a clean 
cloth, and left open until dry. The shelves should be dried 
in the sun, if possible; if not, near a fire. No hot foods, or 
foods with a strong odor, should be placed in a refrigerator. 

Scrubbing Boards and Tables. Do not wash bread 
boards or rolling pins at an iron sink; the iron will leave 
marks on them. Wash them at a table. Wash thorough- 
ly with a wet cloth. Rub sapolio on the wet board; wet the 
scrubbing brush, and scrub well with the grain of the wood; 
rinse ofiF the suds, and wipe as dry as possible. A pastry 



26 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

board should be scraped lengthwise of the grain of the wood 
and wiped with a cloth wet in cold water. Grease spots on 
unfinished wood may be removed by using borax or ammonia. 

Lesson 3. 
Measurements. Exact measurements are necessary 
for uniform results. Cooking is applied chemistry. When 
the chemical constituents vary, the results vary. To illus- 
trate: Air consists of about one-third oxygen and two- 
thirds nitrogen, carbon, and vapor, together. Remove any 
considerable portion of the oxygen, and the air becomes in- 
competent to sustain animal life. Remove all the nitrogen 
and carbon from air, and substitute hydrogen in proportions 
of about two-thirds hydrogen to one-third oxygen, and the 
new chemical compound is water. Successful "guess work" 
in cooking is not guess work at all; but the result of long ex- 
perience through many failures. The "ydlow biscuits" are 
the result of too much soda in the chemical compound; the 
"sour biscuits," the result of too little soda. In cooking, 
cause and e£Fect are as closely related as in the chemical 
laboratory. Like causes produce like effects, and vice versa. 




1 — Oxygen. 2 — Nitrogen, carbon, and vapor. 



Fig. 5. 

Poisonous Air. 
1 — Oxygen. 2 — Nitrogen, carbon, and vapor. 



Fig, 6. 

Water. 
1 — Oxygen. 2 — Hydrogen. 



COOKING 27 

Table. 

One speck (spk.) 

4 saltspoonfuls (ssp.) 1 tsp. 

3 teaspoonfuls (tsp.) 1 tbsp. 

4 tablespoonfuls (tbsp.) 1-4 c, or 1-2 gilL 

8 tablespoonfuls l-2c.,or 1 gill. 

16 tablespoonfuls 1 c, or 1-2 pt. 

2 cupfuls (c) 1 pt. 

2pints(pts.) 1 qt. 

4 quarts (qts.) 1 gallon {gU.) 

Lesson 4. 
Classification of Foods. 

The five Food Principles are: Proteids, carbo-hy- 
drates, fats and oils, mineral matter, and water. 

Proteids are nitrogenous, and essential to life. Their 
principal use is to build and repair tissue. Their subdivisions 
are: Albumen, myosin, gelatin, casein, and gluten. 

Albumens: Principal sources, eggs, milk, meat, fish, 
and oysters. 

Myosin: Source, lean meat. 

Gelatin: Source, bones. 

Casein: Principal sources, milk, peas, beans. 

Gluten: Principal sources, cereals. 

Carbo-Hydrates are non-nitrogenous. Their princi- 
pal uses are to yield heat and energy. Their subdivisions are 
starch and sugar. 

Starch: Principal sources, cereals and vegetables. 

Sugar: Principal sources, fruits, vegetables, cane. 

Fats and Oils are non-nitrogenous. Their principal 
use is to yield heat and energy. Their principal sources are 
milk, meat, fish, cereals, fruits, and nuts. 

Mineral Matters. Their principal uses are to build 
and repair bones, hair, nails, and teeth. Their principal 
varieties are lime, potassium, sodium, and common salt. 
Their principal sources are fresh vegetables, fruits, and water. 

Water. Its principal uses are: To quench thirst, 



28 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

promote circulation, regulate bodily temperature, remove 
waste matter, to nourish, to stimulate ncrrous action 

Rolled Oats. 1 c. rolled oats, 2 c. boiling water, 1 
teaspoonful Salt. Pick over the cereal and remove all 
foreign substances. Put the water and the salt into the up- 
per part of double boiler; when the water boils rapidly, stir 
the cereal slowly into it, a small quantity at a time. Allow 
the mixture to boil in the upper part of the boiler 10 m., 
stirring constantly; fill the lower part of the boiler one-third 
full of boiling water, and place the upper part of the boiler, 
containing the oats, over the lower part. Keep the water in 
the lower part of the boiler, boiling for 20 to 80 m., or long- 
er if desired. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Lesson 5. 
Albumen. Albumen is found in all animal foods, 
especially in eggs, milk, meat, fish, and oysters. The white of 
the egg contains albumen in the purest form in which it oc- 
curs in nature; it is almost pure albumen dissolved in water. 
Albumen is coagulated by heat, and dissolved by cold water. 
It begins to coagulate at a temperature of 134 degrees, be- 
comes jelly like at 160 degrees, and hard and indigestible at a 
temperature of over 185 degrees. The name is from the 
Latin, albuSf meaning white. Albumen is nitrogenous, and 
one of the essentials of life. Its principaluses are to build and 
repair the bodily tissues and to yield heat and energy to the 
body. The white of the egg is taken as the type of albumin- 
ous foods. The yolk and the white diflFer greatly in com- 
position. Comparing them, the white of the egg is found to 
be more than eight-tenths water, the remaining portions be- 
ing principally albumen, with a small amount of mineral 
matter. The yolk is composed of about one-half water, one- 
third fat, and nearly one-sixth proteid matter, with nearly 
twice as much mineral matter as the white contains. 

Composition of the Egg. 

Water 73.7 per cent. 

Proteid 14.8 per cent. 



COOKING 29 

Fat 10.5 per cent. 

Mineral Matter 1.0 percent 



100.0 



—— 8 

■■is 

14 

Fig. 7. 

The Egg. 

1. Water. 3. Fat 

2. Proteid. 4. Mineral Matter. 
Carbo-hydrates are present in the egg in such small 

quantities that the figures are not usually given. 

Eggs should be cooked in such a manner as to render 
them digestible. They should be served, as soon as cooked, 
in heated dishes. The shells of eggs should be washed, in 
every instances, before the eggs are used. Eggs should not 
be used for any food purpose, if not fresh. Stale eggs are de- 
caying eggs. A strong-smelling egg is a decaying egg. The 
odor is that of gases arising from decomposition. Such eggs 
should be avoided as exceedingly harmful. Eggs may be 
preserved for some time by any method which excludes the 
air. The shell of the egg, which consists of carbonate of 
lime almost entirely, is porous. As soon as the egg is laid, 
the water begins to evaporate through these pores, and the 
air from the outside, carrying bacteria with it, enters through 
the pores. Thus the egg soon loses its purity, and decay sets 
in. 

To preserve eggs, pure, for any considerable length of 
time, the air must be excluded as soon as the egg is laid. The 
egg may be covered with lime-water, salt and water, lard, or 
other healthful liquid, or covered with water glass, to prevent 
the evaporation of the water in the egg. Packing in bran, 
oats, salt, saw-dust, etc., are doubtful preservatives, as these 
do not prevent evaporation of the water, nor the entrance of 
air. Of these, salt is the best The surface of the egg may 



30 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



be covered with vaseline, paraffine, etc., but these are liable 
to crack, and leave places for the process of evaporation. 

Water Glass, which may be purchased at any drug 
store, is prepared for use by mixing it with ten times its bulk 
of water. Place the eggs, small end down, in an earthen or 
a wooden vessel, and pour the mixture over them until they 
are covered. Cover the vessel closely and set in a cool 
place. Ask your druggist for water glass. 

As eggs grow constantly lighter with the entrance of the 
air, the best test for freshness is to drop them into a vessel of 
strong, cold salt and water; 1-4 pint salt to 3-4 pt water. The 
quite fresh egg will go directly to the bottom and remain there. 
The older eggs will bounce up and down, undecided whether 
to remain or not; those still older will float. The "bad egg" 
will rise directly to the top. This method of testing eggs is 
within the reach of all. 




Fig. 8. 

1. Vessel of salt and water. 

2. Surface of water. 

3. Bad eggs, rising above the water. 

4. Eggs not fresh, rising. 

5. Fresh eggs. 



COOKING 31 

Soft Boiled Eggs. Place an egg in one pint of boil- 
ing water, remove the vessel from the fire, and let it standi, 
covered, for from 7 to 10 minutes. Remove the egg and 
serve immediately. 

Egg Toast. Cut stale bread in slices one-fourth inch 
in thickness. When using gas, place slice on asbestos mat. 
Toast brown on each side, place in piles, after buttering each 
side. To moisten, if desired, dip the slices quickly into boil- 
ing salted water before buttering. Break eggs, soft-boiled, on 
the toast, one egg on each slice. Serve hot. 

Lesson 6. 

Gluten is vegetable proteid, found in all cereals. It is 
the gummy substance found when chewing uncooked kernels 
of wheat. It is named from the word glue, as its principal 
property is like that of glue. In making paste of flour, this 
gluey property of the flour is easily discovered. 

General Directions For Cooking Cereals. 

Stir the cereal gradually into the required quantity of 
boiling water, adding one teaspoonful of salt for each cup of 
cereal. Cook the mixture rapidly at first, about ten minutes, 
directly over the stove; then place it over boiling water, and 
cook from twenty to forty-five minutes longer, according to 
cereal used. To save time in cooking, soak the cereals in 
water before cooking; this is especially helpful in cooking 
coarse cereals. Fine cereals should be mixed with cold water, 
to the consistency of thick pancake batter, before stirring into 
the boiling water. This prevents lumping. Cook prepared 
market preparations much longer than is indicated by the 
directions on the package. 

In serving cereals, milk or cream should be used to sup- 
ply fat, in which they are deficient. 

Table For Cooking Cereals, 
kind quantity water time 

Rolled Oats Ic. 2c 45 m. 

Rolled Avena Ic. 2c. 45 m. 



32 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

KIND QUANTITY WATER TIME 

Wheatena, Cream 

of Wheat, etc Ic 3 3-4c. 30 m. 

Rice (Steamed) Ic. 2 3-4 to 4c. 45 to 50 m. 

Rice (Boiled) Ic. 6c. 25 m; 

Cornmeal Ic. 3 l-2c 2 hrs. 

Oatmeal Ic. 4c. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Cracked Wheat Ic. 4c. 3 to 4 hrs: 

Hominy (Fine) Ic. 4c. 1 hr. 

Lesson 7. 
Animal Casein is a proteid of milk. It constitutes 
nearly 3.3 per cent of the milk. It is coagulated by acids, 
causing a solid curd to separate from the liquid part of the 
milk. The liquid part is then called "whey." Casein can 
also be coagulated by rennet, a substance prepared from the 
lining of the stomach of the calf. The coagluated casein of 
milk, called curd, is pressed together to make cheese. The 
whey which remains after the curd is removed, consists of 
the water of the milk, holding in solution a little sugar and 
some mineral matter, with other soluble substances in very 
small amounts. It has some nutritive value, and is frequent- 
ly used for nourishment for invalids and infants. The curd 
consists principally of the coagulated casein and the fat of 
the milk, with some mineral matters. Cheese is highly 
nutritious, Skimmed milk cheese is nearly one-half pro- 
teid, while cheese made from unskimmed milk is only about 
one-third proteid, one third fat and the remaining third is 
composed of water, with small amounts of mineral matters. 

A. 




Fig. e. 



COOKING 83 

A. — Skimmed-milk Cheese. 

1. Proteid; 2. Water; 3. Fat; 4. Mineral Matter. 

B. — Full Cream Cheese. 

1. Proteid; 2. Fat; 3. Water; 4. Mineral Matter. 

As cheese contains no starch, it should be eaten with 
starchy foods, such as bread and macaroni. Cheese in its 
raw state is somewhat difficult of indigestion. This may be 
overcome by cooking, and adding a small amount of baking 
soda. 

Sour Milk Cheese. 

1 qt. thick sour milk, 1 tbsp. cream, 2 tsps. butter, 1-8 
tsp. salt. Heat the milk slowly until the curd separates from 
the whey. Place a piece of cheese-cloth in a strainer, and 
place the strainer over a bowl. Pour in the milk, lift the 
edges of the cloth and draw them together over the mass; 
then, holding the bag thus formed with one hand, press and 
squeeze it with the other, until the curd is as dry as possible. 
Place the curd thus formed, in a bowl, season with butter, 
cream, and salt. Stir well, to mix the ingredients. Pepper 
may be used if desired; also one teaspoonful of powdered 
sage may be added. 

Vegetable Casein is found principally in peas, beans, 
and lentils. It is contained in the water in which these are 
thoroughly cooked. It is a vegetable proteid, and, as such, 
gives the great nutritive value to these foods. 

Cream of Lima Beans: Soak one cup of dried Lima 
beans over night; drain, and boil in salted water until soft; 
drain, add three-fourths cup of cream, and season with but- 
ter and salt. Reheat before serving. 

Lesson 8. 
Starch is a heat and energy producing food, and belongs 
to the carbohydrates. It is vegetable, and its principal sources 
are cereals and vegetables. It is a fine, white, glistening pow- 
der, insoluble in cold water, but partially soluble in hot 
water, with which it forms a jelly-like paste. Heat and 
moisture are necessary to soften starch. Although starch 



34 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

cannot sustain life, alone, it forms one of the most important 
foods when taken in combination with foods which build and 
repair tissues. Raw starch is not digestible; therefore all 
foods containing starch should be subjected to boiling water 
and thoroughly cooked. Starch is manufactured principally 
from wheat, corn, and potatoes. 

Starchy foods are not digestible by the stomach until 
after they have been thoroughly mixed with the fluids 
secreted by the glands of the mouth. For this reason, bread 
and all other starchy foods should be well masticated before 
swallowing. 

Baking Potatoes: Wash and scrub potatoes of 
uniform size. Bake on the grate of a hot oven, until soft. 
When baking, turn them every ten or fifteen minutes, to 
keep them from burning. Test them by pressing them with 
the hand wrapped in a towel. When soft, break open the 
skins to let the steam escape, and serve immediately. If any 
are left over, remove the skins, and use the potatoes for 
warming over. 

Lesson 9. 

Sugar, like starch, is a carbo-hydrate; therefore its func- 
tions are to yield heat and energy. It is made for common 
use from sugar cane, sugar beets, and maple sap. The grains 
of sugar are minute crystals formed from the solution of sugar 
and water taken from the plant or the tree. Sugar has the 
same properties as starch; yet, while starch will not dissolve 
in cold water, sugar readily dissolves in all liquid substances. 
All starch is turned to sugar in the process of digestion 
(grape sugar). Because sugar disolves so readily, it is easily 
digested. It is a most important food, and harmless when 
not indulged in to excess. Scientific investigation shows 
that sugar repairs muscular strength, when depleted, more 
quickly than any other food-stuflF. 

White Fondant: 2 1-2 lbs. sugar, 1-4 teaspoonful 
cream tartar, 11-2 cups hot water. Boil the ingredients all 
together, until it makes a soft ball when tried in cold water. 
Turn out on a large olatter, and, when cool, work it with a 



COOKING 35 

spatula and the hands, until creamy. Divide into portions, 
and flavor to taste. Shape into chocolate creams, etc. 

Lesson 10. 
Water is found in nature as a solid (ice and snow), at 
a liquid, and as a gas (steam). Water freezes at 32 degrees, 
and boils at 212 degrees, Fahr. About three-fifths of the 
human body is composed of water. It follows then, that a 
large amount of water should be taken into the system to 
keep this proportion intact, as much water is carried off 
through the natural channels, the lungs, the skin, and the 
kidneys, each day. More or less water is contained in every 
food substance, no matter how dry it appears; while many 
fruits and vegetables contain a very large proportion of water. 
The dryer our food, the more exercise we take, the more 
water we need to drink. Pure water is composed of oxygen 
and hydrogen; but all natural water has taken up mineral 
and gaseous substances. Water for drinking and cooking 
should be free from harmful substances; it should, also, be 
freshly drawn. Water which has been standing in the pipes 
between the faucet and the street over night, should be 
drawn oflF before any is taken for use. Water from the hot 
water faucet should not be used for cooking, because impuri' 
ties collect in the boiler, which makes it unfit for use. 






Fig. 10. 

Figure 10 is a group of bacteria from impure water, 
highly magnified. 

Unclean water is dangerous, as dust is dangerous; for 
we do not know just what disease germs ere hidden in it 
Water from springs, wells, and streams, in cities and towns, 
is apt to become contaminated by sewage, and thus create 
the most malignant diseases. Water may be purified by 



36 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

boiling; but, after boiling, it should be kept carefully covered 
from dust. Water is the natural beverage; but custom has 
given us several other beverages, more or less artificial. 

Tea is a beverage. It consists of the leaves of a plant 
produced in China, Japan, and India. Tea contains two 
principles that act upon the body. One, theine, stimulates 
the nervous system; the other, tannin, is injurious to the 
delicate lining of the stomach. Boiling tea, or steeping it 
long, extracts the tannin. 

Making Tea: To make strong tea, allow one tea- 
spoonful of tea to each cup of boiling water. Scald the 
teapot with boiling water; put in the tea and pour on the 
boiling water. Place the teapot where the tea will keep 
hot, but not boil, and let it stand for five minutes. 
Strain, and serve at once. Do not use a tin teapot, 
because of the tannin in the tea. 

Coffee. The coffee tree is a native of Abyssinia, but 
is now grown in all tropical countries. Java coffee is con- 
sidered best. The Mocha and Java blend, consisting of one 
part Mocha and two parts Java, seems best suited to the 
average taste. The coffee berries are browned to a dark 
chestnut color, and ground; the ground coffee is then ready 
for use. The aroma of the coffee is best retained by brown- 
ing, at one time, only sufficient coffee for the following 
meal; grinding it and placing it immediately in the coffee- 
pot and over the fire. 

Coffee, like tea, has two important principles, caffeine 
and tannin. 

Caffeine is the same chemical substance as theine, 
and has the same effect upon the nervous system; the tan- 
nin, also, has the same effect as the tannin of the tea. 
Neither tea nor coffee is a food-stuff; but when prepared 
with water, sugar, and milk, they contain the food values of 
those articles of food. 

Making Coffee. For strong coffee, allow two table- 
spoonfuls of the ground coffee for each cup. When several 
cups are to be made, a smaller quantity for each cup may be 



COOKING 37 

used. Put the coffee into cold water and bring it to the 
boiling point; then remove it from the fire and allow it to 
stand for a few minutes at near the boiling point, before 
serving, to "settle" the grounds. 

Cocoa, while classed as a beverage, diflFers widely from 
both tea and coflFe, in being a proteid food-stuff, and in 
containing half its weight in fat. It is made from the crush- 
ed bean of the cocoa tree, a native of tropical America. Its 
stimulating principle is called theobromine; and means "food 
for the gods." In the manufacture of cocoa, large quanti- 
ties of sugar and starch are added, greatly increasing its food 
value. 

Cocoa: Ic. milk, Ic. boiling water, 2 tbsp. cocoa, 2 tbsp. 
sugar. Heat the milk in a double boiler; mix the cocoa and 
sugar together, and add them to the boiling water. Boil 
from five to ten minutes, pour the cocoa, thus cooked, into 
the heated milk, and serve. 

Lesson 11. 

Animal Fats and Oils: Fats are solid at ordinary 
temperature, while oils are liquid. Oils are separated from 
the fats, by heat. The process of separating the oils from 
the fats is called "clarifying." Though differing greatly in 
appearance and flavor, fats and oils used as foods do essen- 
tially the same work on the body; they supply heat and 
energy. They, with the carbo-hydrates, starch, sugar, etc., 
are the fuel which keeps the bodily machinery in action. Fat 
produces more than twice as much heat as the same weight 
of starch or sugar; yet the carbo-hydrates act more rapidly 
than the fats and oils, and are less expensive. Meat, fish, 
milk, and eggs are the principal sources of animal fats. The 
fats commonly used are butter, lard, "drippings" (or tallow), 
suet, and marrow. Butter is the most digestible of these, 
and the most costly. Lard is the semi-solid fat derived, by 
heating, from the fat of the hog. Beef suet is obtained 
from and near the kidneys and loins. Marrow is a soft fat 
found in the cavities of the bones. The term, "dripping," 
means the clear fat of the beef, which has been melted and 



38 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

strained, and thus freed from impurities. It is also called 
clarified fat. 

All fats may be clarified, when stale or rancid, by heat- 
ing and straining. In this way, all remnants of fat from 
meat, and the fat skimmed from soups, gravies, etc., may be 
purified and saved. 

"Drippings" or Clarified Fat. Cut or chop the fat 
into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan or kettle half 
filled with water. Heat slowly. Stir occasionally, cook un- 
til scraps are light brown, and the fat has ceased to bubble. 
Remove saucepan from the heat. Let stand five minutes, 
and strain through strainer or cheese-cloth. 

Sauted Potatoes. Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices 
one-fourth inch in thickness. Season with salt and pepper, 
place in a hot, well-greased frying-pan, brown on one side, 
turn, and brown on the other side. Serve hot. 

Lesson 12. 

Milk, as it is drawn from a cow in perfect health, may 
be regarded as free from injurious germ life, unless germs 
enter it during the process of drawing, or "milking"; but, 
during the process of drawing the milk, as commonly per- 
formed, dust enters the milk, and alto dirt from the skin 
of the cow; therefore, all milk drawn by the common pro- 
cess may be regarded with suspicion; and few cows are en- 
tirely healthy. 

Sterlization will undoubtedly kill all of the germs of 
the milk; but as this process requires that the milk be heated 
nearly to the boiling point, the flavor of the milk is much 
changed, and the milk is rendered less digestible, especially 
for infants, and those persons having weak stomachs. 

The method called pasteurization destroys all the germs 
except those which cause the milk to sour. 

Pasteurized Milk. Fill sterilized bottles or jars 
nearly full of milk; cork with cotton that has been heated 
in the oven until yellow. Place bottles on a rest in a deep 
pan, so that they will not touch the bottom of the pan. 
Fill the pan with cold water to reach as high as the upper 



COOKING 39 

surface of the milk in the bottles. Place over the fire, and 
heat to 155 degrees or 165 degrees Fahr. If no thermome- 
ter is used, heat until small bubbles appear in the milk, next 
to the glass. Remove to the back of the stove where the 
milk will not reach a higher temperature; allow the milk to 
stand at the same temperature from 20 to 40 minutes; 

#/<¥ '^±- *!» *'^'^ 



iff 






^ 




Fi^. 11. 



A Group of Lactic Bacteria, Highly Magnified. 

place the bottle in lukewarm water for a few minutes, and 
then in cold water until milk is cold. Keep the bottles m 
a cool place. Do not remove stoppers until ready to use 
milk. Do not insert the thermometer into the milk to test, 
but into the water; to avoid carrying germs into the 
milk. Any spring-top or screw-top glass jar used in 
canning, may be utilized for pasteurizing milk. During 
the process of heating the milk, the top of the jar should 
be slightly loosened, to allow the escape of the expanding 
air; but when ready to remove the milk from the hre, 
to cool, the tops of the jars should be tight y closed; and 
screw-top jars should again be again tightened several times, 
as they cool. 



40 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson 13. 
Cooking in Deep Fat. 
French Fried Potatoes: Wash and pare the pota- 
toes, about six, medium size; cut in halves, lengthwise; cut 
each half in pieces like the slices of an orange; allow to stand 
in cold water 20 minutes. Drain, dry, and fry in smoking 
hot, deep fat. Place on clean brown paper to absorb the 
grease. Sprinkle with salt. Care should be taken that the 
fat is not too hot, as the potatoes must be cooked as well as 
browned. 

Lesson 14. 

The Mineral Matters in the body include com- 
pounds of lime, potassium, sodium, iron, common salt, etc 
(See table in Appendix). Mineral matters are essential to life; 
being necessary for the formation of the bones, teeth, hair, 
and nails, and also as aids in digestion, circulation, etc. 
Fresh meats, fish, fruits and vegetables are the principal 
sources of mineral matters in foods, but cereals supply a 
small amount. Water contains much mineral matter, in 
solution. Common salt, the most common mineral sub- 
stance used in foods, is added to the foods in cooking and 
otherwise, as foods in general do not contain a sufficient 
quantity. Phosphorus and lime are necessary to the forma- 
tipn of bones and teeth; hence, young children should eat 
much food containing them. These are found abounding in 
cereals, but are found in mail quantities in meat and fish. 
As persons become eged, the bones lose much of the phos- 
phorus, and are easily broken; hence, such persons should 
eat freely of foods containing phosphorus. When any food- 
stuff is burned, the mineral matter remains in ash. 

Cabbage Salad: Remove the loose leaves from a 
solid head of cabbage, quarter it, and shave fine. Pour the 
salad dressing over it, serve cold. If a cabbage is wilted, 
soak it for an hour or more in cold water, salted water. 

French Dressing: « One-fourth teaspoon lalt, one- 
eighth teaspoon pepper, three tablespoons olive oil, one 



COOKING 41 

tablespoon vinegar. Put all the ingredients into a clean 
bottle, and shake well. Pour over cabbage, lettuce, or other 
salad requiring a thin dressing. Peanut oil may be substi- 
tuted for the olive oil; it is much less expensive, and is pre- 
ferred by many. 

Lesson 15. 
Acids are not foods, because they build up no part of 
the body, nor do they yield heat or energy, but, rather, de- 
stroy chemical elements within the body, as alkalies, by com- 
bining v/ith them and forming a compound having proper- 
ties unlike either of the original substances. Vegetable acids 
form an important article of diet, greatly aiding digestion. 
They may, however, be used to excess. Acids are found in 
all fruits and vegetables. The principal vegetable acids are: 

1. Acetic Acid, found in wine and vegetable vinegar. 

2. Tartaric Acid, found in grapes, pineapples, tamar- 
inds. 

3. Malic Acid, found in apples, pears, peaches, apri- 
cots, gooseberries, and currants. 

4. Citric Acid, found in lemons, oranges, limes, and 
citrons. 

5. Oxolic Acid, found in rhubarb and sorrel. 

6. Tannic Acid, found in gall nuts. 
Some fruits contain two or more acids. 
Lemonade: One lemon, three tablespoons sugar, one 

cup boiling water. Squeeze the lemon juice into a bowL 
Put the pieces of the lemon into the bowl with the juice; 
add the water and the sugar, and stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Strain, and serve hot or cold. 

Baked Apples: Wash and core the apples, place them 
in a baking dish, filling the center of each apple with sugar. 
Measure one tablespoon of water for each apple, and pour it 
around the apples, being careful not to pour it through the 
center. Bake until the apples are soft. Place on a serving 
dish, and pour the juice over them. Apples may be baked 
without coring and without sugar. 



42 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Dressing For Baked Apples: To one-half cup of 
the juice from the baked apples, add one cup of sugar. Boil 
five minutes, and pour over the apples. Serve cold. 

Lesson 16. 

Vegetable Soup: As commonly used, the term 
"vegetables" includes all plants used for food, except grains 
and fruits. Vegetable soups are nutritious and easily digest- 
ed. A comparative table of the composition of diflFerent 
vegetables will assist the housewife in selecting the more nu- 
tritious vegetables for the table. 

Lima beans are the greatest vegetable muscle builders. 
Lima beans and sweet potatoes excel in fat, the greatest heat 
producers; sweet potatoes and Lima beans, the greatest en- 
ergy producers; Lima beans and parsnips contain the most 
mineral matter, while celery and tomatoes contain the most 
water. 

The legumes, peas, beans, and lentils, may be used in 
place of meat; the other vegetables are chiefly valuable for 
their mineral matters, and should form a part of the daily 
food. Peas and beans, when old, should be used for purees 
and soups; by so doing, the outer covering of cellulose, 
which is indigestible, is removed. 

Lima Bean Soup: Soak one cup of Lima beans over 
night, drain, and cook in boiling salted water until soft; 
drain; add three-fourths cup cream, season^with butter and 
salt. Reheat before serving. 

Tomato Soup: One can tomatoes, one pint water, 
twelve pepper-corns, bit of bayleaf, four cloves, two teaspoons 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, one-third teaspoon soda, two 
tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, one slice onion. 
Cook first six ingredients twenty minutes; strain, add salt 
and soda; strain through thin cloth or fine wire strainer. 

Lesson 17. 
Potatoe Soup: Three medium-sized potatoes, one 
quart milk, two slices onion, three tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one and one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth 



COOKING 43 

teaspoon celery salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, a few grains 
of cayenne, one teaspoon chopped parsley. Cook potatoes in 
boiling salted water; rub them through a strainer. Scald 
milk with onion, remove onion, and stir the milk slowly into 
the potatoes. Melt half the butter, add dry ingredients, stir 
until well mixed, then stir into the boiling soup. Cook one 
minute, strain, add remaining butter, and sprinkle with the 
parsley. 

Lesson 18. 
Bread is the most important article of food. Consid- 
ering its great value, it seems a great wrong to place poor 
bread before the hungry. Wheat, rye, barley, and Indian 
corn art the principal cereals used for bread. 




Fig. 12. 

A Grain of Wheat. 

1. Cuticle. 3. Gluten cells. 

2. Bran cells. 4. Starch cells. 

A grain of wheat consists of a centre of starch, which 
forms the largest part of the grain; a layer of gluten, which 
consists of proteid and fat; a layer of bran, which contains 
mineral matter; and an outer covering called the hull, which 
is removed before milling. For the conversion of any grain 
into finished flour, three processes are necessary; cleansing, 
grinding, and bolting, Entire wheat flour is made by grind- 
ing all but the outer hull. Graham flour, frequently con- 
founded with entire wheat flour, is often an inferior flour 
mixed with coarse bran. 

Leavening is the process of making batters and doughs 
"light," by producing in them a gas, which is expanded by 



44 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

the heat in baking. The gases commonly aiding tne process 
of leavening are air, steam, and carbon dioxide, (a compound 
of carbon and oxygen). Air at 70 degrees Fahr. expands to 
about twice its volume when submitted to the heat of the 
oven in baking. 

PoPOVERS: One cup flour, one-fourth teaspoon salt, 
seven-eighths cup milk, one teaspoon melted butter, one 
egg. Mix salt and flour together; add the milk gradually; 
add the egg unbeaten, and the melted butter; beat five min- 
utes with a fork or Dover beater; pour into hot, buttered, 
iron gem-pans or popover cups; bake thirty to thirty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Lesson 19. 

Experiment: Stir flour and water together to make a 
stiff paste; beat with a fork for five minutes, drop a spoon- 
ful on a hot, buttered griddle. The air in the bubbles ex- 
pands, increasing the size of the mass greatly. This is leav- 
ening with air; The popovers made in the previous exercise 
were made light by air enclosed by the albumen of the egg 
when beaten. In baking, this albumen hardens around 
the bubbles of air, making little cells to imprison the 
air. The heat thus expands the mass to several times its 
original size. The water in such mixtures, in part, is con- 
verted into steam. The steam fills a space 17,000 times 
that of the water producing it, Here, again, we have a great 
source of leavening, steam. 

Alkalies are chemical substances that unite with fat 
to form a new substance, called soap. Common baking 
soda is an alkali. When an alkali is mixed with an acid, as 
vinegar, a gas is set free which is valuable to the cook. 
This gas (carbon deoxide) is produced in a simple manner, 
by combining common baking soda with cream of tartar, or 
with vinegar, tartaric acid, sour milk, etc. 

Acid and alkaline substances, when combined in the 
proper proportions and moister,ed, neutralize each other; 
that is, each destroys the nature of the other, and the result- 
ing compound is neither acid nor alkaline. Cold water 



COOKING 45 

water added to a mixture of bi-carbonate of soda and cream 
of tartar causes the gas to be liberated from the soda. The 
heat of the oven expands the gas, and forces much of it out 
of the mixture. This process leaves batters and doughs full 
of little holes; and is called leavening by gas. 

Pancakes. Two cups flour, four teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon salt, one egg, beaten, one and three- 
fourths cup milk, two teaspoons melted butter. Mix and 
sift the dry ingredients. Add the beaten egg, then the milk, 
gradually. Mix until smooth. Add the melted butter, 
beat thoroughly, and bake on a hot, greased griddle. When 
full of bubbles, and brown on the under side, turn. The 
griddles should be smoking hot when the batter is placed 
upon them, 

Lesson 20. 

The Acid formed in milk is called lactic acid; from 
the Latin, lactea; milk. The germs which form it are called 
lactic bacteria. These form the acid from the sugar in the 
milk, as vinegar is formed from sweetened water or fruit 
juices; but the processes differ, and the periods of time re- 
quired to produce the different acids differ. Lactic acid may 
be produced in a fev/ hours; while several weeks, and some- 
times months, are required to form vinegar from common 
sugar, or from fruit juices. 



&=^ 




Fig. 13. 

Figure 13, is a group of vinegar-producing bacteria. 

The souring of milk is a natural process; one that 
should be expected after it has become a day or two old, 



46 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and one that should be desired; for if the milk docs not 
sour, it will putrefy. Sour milk is wholesome, and would 
be more freely uced, if more pleasant to the taste; while pu- 
trefaction in any form is the result of the multiplication and 
development of ptomaines, some classes of which are the 
most dangerous species of bacteria. Milk which will not sour 
under the common methods of treatment, may be regarded 
with suspicion. It contains some preservative. 

Sour milk is utilized as food in various ways; one of 
which is in leavening, used in combination with bi-carbonate 
of soda; (common baking soda). 

Sour Milk Pancakes: Two and one-half cups flour, 
one-half teaspoon salt, two cups sour milk, one and one-fourth 
teaspoon soda; add sour milk, and egg well beaten. Bake 
on a hot, greased griddle. When puff^ed, full of bubbles, 
and of a rich chestnut color, turn, and cook on the other 
side. Serve with butter, and syrup if desired. 

Lesson 21. 
Review of the previous lessons on leavening. 

Baking Powder: Eight ounces bi-carbonate of soda, 
eighteen ounces cream of tartar, four ounces corn starch. 
Mash or roll the soda until free from lumps. Add the 
corn starch, mix well, and sift five or six times through a 
fine strainer. Add the cream of tartar, mix thoroughly, and 
sift six or seven times. Place in the boxes or cans, or in 
Mason's jars. Keep closely covered. 

Two level teaspoons baking powder should be allowed 
for each cup of flour. Batters and doughs leavened with 
baking powder should be handled as little as possible, and 
cooked as soon as mixed, in a hot oven. Less baking pow- 
der is used in mixtures containing eggs. Use cold liquids 
for mixing. 

Pastry flour is sometimes used in baking powder mix- 
tures. Bread flour requires more liquid than pastry flour. 
Bread flour may be substituted for pastry flour, by taking 
two tablespoonfuls from each cupful. 



COOKING 47 

Cream of Tartar is made from grapes. In making 
wine, tartaric acid from the grapes forms in lumps on the 
side of the wine-casks. This is purified, and ground into a 
powder, which is called cream of tartar. 

Bicarbonate of Soda is made from common salt. 
Starch is put into baking powder to keep the cream of tartar 
and soda separate and dry, because soda, being made from 
salt, absorbs moisture, like salt. 

Lesson 22. 

Slowness in mixing and in baking all kinds of "quick 
breads;" allows the gas to escape to such an extent that what 
would, otherwise, have been a light and delicious creation, 
comes from the oven a heavy and indigestible mass, and the 
cook wonders: "Why?" 

One Egg Muffins: Three and one-half cups flour, 
six teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon salt, three table- 
spoons sugar, one and one-third cup milk, three tablespoons 
melted butter, one egg. Mix and sift dry ingredients; add 
the milk gradually, the egg well beaten, and the melted but- 
ter. Bake in buttered gem pans twenty five minutes. If 
iron pans are used, they must be previously heated. This 
receipe makes thirty muffins. 

Lesson 23. 

Corn Meal Muffins: One-half cup corn meal, one 
cup flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one tablespoon 
sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, one-half teaspoon salt, 
three-fourths cup milk; one egg. Mix and bake as oneegg 
muffins. 

Lesson 24. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread: One cup molasses, 
one-third cup butter, one and three-fourths teaspoon «!oda, 
one-half cup sour milk, one egg, two cups flour, two tea 
spoons ginger; one-half teaspoon salt. Put butter and molas- 
ses in saucepan, and cook until boiling point is reached. 
Remove from fire, add soda, and beat vigorously. Then add 



48 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

the milk, egg well beaten, and the remaining ingredients 
mixed and sifted. Bake fifteen minutes in buttered pans, 
filling pans two-thirds full. 

Lesson 25. 

Baking Powder Biscuits: Two cups flour, four tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons 
Isrd, three-fourths cup milk and water in equal parts. Mix 
dry ingredients, and sift twice; work in the lard with tips of 
fingers; add gradually the liquid, mixing with fingers to a 
soft dough. Owing to a difference in flours, it is impossible 
to determine the exact amount of liquid. Place on a floured 
board, pat and roll lightly to one-half inch in thickness. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter. Place on a buttered pan; bake 
in a hot oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Drop Biscuits: Use foregoing recipe, by adding sufli- 
cient milk to make the mixture thin enough to drop from a 
spoon. Drop by spoonfuls on buttered pan, one-half inch 
apart. Brush over with milk. Bake in hot oven eight 
minutes. 

Lesson 26. 

Sour Milk Biscuits: Three-fourths cup sour milk, 
one-half teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
lard, two cups flour. Mix dry ingredients and sift twice. 
Work in lard with tips of fingers; add the sour milk, and 
work with fingers to a dough. Place on a floured board, 
knead lightly, roll to one-half inch in thickness. Shape with 
biscuit-cutter. Place on buttered pan, and bake in hot oven 
until light brown. 

Lesson 27. 

Condiments are not classed as foods, but are known as 
food adjuncts. They are used as stimulants to the appetite, 
by adding flavor to the food. The principal condiments are 
pepper, mustard, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, 
mace, horse-radish. 

Flavoring Extracts are foods, derived from fruits, 
nuts, etc., and partaking of the nature of the fruit, nut, etc, 



COOKING 49 

from which derived. Lemon and vanilla extracts are prob- 
ably the most commonly used. Many sacalled extracts on 
the market are made from chemicals. 

Sugar Cookies: One cup sugar, one half cup butter, 
one-fourth cup milk, one egg, two teaspoons baking powder, 
flour to make a stiff dough, one fourth teaspoon vanilla. Cream 
the butter and sugar, beat the egg, and add these to the milk. 
Sift the baking powder with one cup flour, and add to the 
liquid. Add one-fourth teaspoon vanilla, stir in more flour 
to make dough stiflF enough to handle. Roll out until one- 
fourth inch thick. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes. 

Lesson 28. 

Molasses Cake: Two-thirds cup sugar, two-thirds 
cup butter, two-thirds cup molasses, one egg, one cup milk, 
two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one 
teaspoon soda, three teaspoons mixed spice, one tablespoon 
lemon juice. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, stir 
in the molasses, and sift in one-half cup flour. Beat the egg, 
add it to the milk, and stir into the mixture. Mix the cream 
of tartar, soda, and spice, with the remainder of the flour, 
and add it to the mixture, stirring it well, to make a smooth 
batter. Add flavoring last Bake at once. If baked in a 
loaf, add one cup more of flour. 

A good fruit cake may be made by adding one-half cup 
raisins, seeded and quartered, one-half cup currants, and 
one fourth cup sliced citron. The fruit should be well dredg 
ed with flour before adding it to the batter. 
Lesson 29. 

Meat Soups. The tougher and cheaper parts of meat, 
as the shin, neck, and tail, are suitable for soup and soup- 
stock; first, because tough meat is more juicy than tender 
meat; second, because these parts usually have a greater pro- 
portion of gristle, bone, etc., than the more tender parts. 
The bones, gristle, and connective tissues of the creature, 
contain the substances which form gelatin. The gelatin 
is extracted from them by long boiling in water. After 



50 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

the gelatin is extracted, continued boiling evaporates the 
water, and when the soup or soup-stock is cold, it forms a 
jelly-like mass. This is why it is called gelatin. The soup 
in this solid form will not spoil so soon as in a liquid fornit 
because it is not so easily affected by bacteria. 

The soup-stock will keep several days in bowls, if enough 
fat has been used to form a layer over the top of the stock; 
but the better way to preserve it for future use is to can it, or 
put it in Mason's jars. If placed in bowls, to be used in a 
short time, it should be closely covered. 

When needed for use, take the fat oflF the top, heat the 
stock to boiling point, and add more seasoning, if desired. 

To give variety at different meals, different vegetables 
may be used; as rice, barley, potatoes, cabbage, etc.; also dif- 
ferent flour pastes; as macaroni, noodles, etc. 

In making sauces, gravies, etc., soup stock gives addition- 
al flavor. 

Beef, veal, mutton, poultry, etc., may be used for soup- 
stock, either singly or combined. 

Bone and fat, as well as lean meat, are used in making 
stock. 

Soup Stock: Three pounds shin of beef, three pounds 
bones, three quarts cold water, ten peppercorns, one table- 
spoon salt, one-fourth cup onion, one-half cup turnip, one- 
half cup carrots, one-fourth cup celery, ten cloves, one small 
bunch sweet herbs, if desired. Wipe the meat and cut it 
into small pieces; have the bones cracked; put the marrow, 
fat, bones, and finely cut meat into a kettle with the cold 
water. Let it stand thirty minutes, then heat slowly to boil- 
ing point, and boil gently from four to six hours, keeping 
the kettle closely covered. Prepare the vegetables, cut into 
small pieces, add them to the stock, and cook one hour long- 
er. Strain, and cool quickly. Keep in a cool place. The 
spices may be omitted, if preferred, in home cooking. 

Lesson 30. 
Macaroni Soup: Remove the fat from the soup-stock, 



COOKING 51 

and heat one quart of the stock to boiling point Add one- 
fourth cup cooked macaroni The soup may be strained or 
not, as desired. 

Lesson 31. 
Chicken Broth: Dress and clean the chicken; remove 
the skin and the fat, disjoint, and wipe with a clean, wet 
cloth. Put into a stew pan and cover with cold water. 
Heat slowly to the boiling point, skim, and cook until the 
meat is tender: When half done, season with one and one- 
half teaspoon salt and a few grains of pepper. Strain, and 
remove the fat There should be about three pints of stock. 
Re-heat to boiling point, add two tablespoons washed rice, 
and cook until rice is soft. 

Lesson 32. 
Review all previous lessons on eggs and milk. 

General Rules for eggs: Always wash eggs before 
using them. When the yolk of the egg is firm and whole, 
after breaking the shell carefully, and the white is clear and 
thick, the egg is fresh. As eggs contain albumen, the proper 
temperature for cooking is about 180 degrees Fahr. Fried 
eggs are less digestible than eggs cooked in other ways, be- 
cause the heat of the fat makes the albumen leathery. Re- 
cent investigation shows that moderately boiled eggs are 
more digestible than raw ones; and that they are devoid of 
germs, which raw eggs may contain, even if fresh; hence, the 
moderately boiled eggs are more healthful. 

Plain Cup Custard: One pint of milk, two eggs, 
four tablespoons sugar, speck of salt. Beat the eggs well; add 
the salt, sugar, and milk, and stir until the sugar dissolves. 
If desired, a little nutmeg may be added. Pour into cups, set 
the cups in a pan of boiling water and place the pan in the 
•oven. Bake until the custards are firm in the center. Serve 
with caramel sauce, if desired. 

Caramel Sauce: One-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
boiling water. Melt sugar to a syrup of light brown color. 



52 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

add the boiling water. Simmer ten minutes. Cool before 
serving. 

Lesson 33. 

Bread Pudding: Two cups stale bread crumbs, one 
quart scalded milk, one-third cup sugar, one-fourth cup 
melted butter, two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
vanilla, one-fourth teaspoon spice. Soak the bread crumbs 
in the milk, set aside to cool; add sugar, butter, eggs slightly 
beaten, salt, and flavoring; bake one hour in buttered pud- 
ding dish, in slow oven; serve with vanilla sauce. In pre- 
paring bread crumbs for pudding, the outside crusts may be 
used or not, at pleasure. The crust is the most healthful 
part of the bread. With a coarse grater, there need be but 
little waste. 

Vanilla Sauce: One-half cup sugar, one cup boiling 
water, one tablespoon cornstarch; two tablespoons butter, one 
teaspoon vanilla. Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water grad- 
ually, stirring constantly; boil five minutes, remove from fire, 
add butter and vanilla. 

Rice Pudding: Two cups cooked rice, one-half cup 
sugar, one pint milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon flavoring 
or speck nutmeg. Add to eggs slightly beaten, the sugar, 
milk, and flavoring. Mix well with the rice. Bake in slow 
oven about one-half hour. It should be firm in the center 
before removing from the oven. Serve hot or cold, with 
suitable sauce. Fruit may be added, if desired. 

Lesson 34 
Review lesson twelfth. 

Milk Gruel: Two tablespoons Indian meal, one 
tablespoon flour, one-half tablespoon salt, cold water, three 
cups boiling water, milk or cream. Mix the meal, flour, and 
salt, add cold water sufficient to make a thin paste. Stir 
with a spoon until smooth. Stir this paste into the boiling 
water, a little at a time, stirring constantly. Boil gently one 
hour. Dilute with milk or cream. If a richer gruel is de- 



COOKING 53 

sired, milk may be used instead of water, cooking three 
hours in a double boiler. 

Lesson 35. 
General Directions For Canning: Care should be 
taken that the fruit selected is fresh, firm, of good quality, 
and not over-ripe. If overripe, some of the spores may not 
be destroyed by boiling; then fermentation will begin m a 
short time. Allow one-third of the weight of the fruit in 
sugar, and from two and one-half to three cups of water to 
each pound of sugar. Boil the sugar and water together for 
two minutes, to make a thin syrup; then cook a small quan- 
tity of the fruit at a time in the syrup; this keeps the fruit 
in perfect shape. Hard fruits may be cooked in clear boiling 
water until nearly soft, then placed in the syrup to finish 
cooking. Sterilized jars are first filled with the fruit, and 
then enough of the syrup poured over to overflow the jars. 
Insert a spoon between fruit and jar, to allow the bubbles 
of air to rise to the top; then put on the rubbers and screw 
on sterilized covers. As the fruit cools, screw covers again, 
as tightly as possible. When cold, tighten again. While 
filling the jars, place them on a cloth wrung out of hot 
water, to keep from breaking. 

To Sterilize Jars: Wash the jars and fill them 
with cold water. Place in a kettle on a trivet, and surround 
with cold water. Heat gradually to boiling point, then re- 
move from the water, empty, and fill with fruit while hot. 
Allow the covers to stand in hot water five minutes, before 
placing them on the jars. Dip the bands in hot water 
quickly. Use no old rubbers. If the rims of the covers are 
bent, air will enter the cans. i i • 

Canned Peaches: Wipe the peaches and place in 
boiling water, allowing them to stand just long enough to 
loosen the skins. Remove the skins, and cook the truit at 
once, that it may not discolor; following the general directions 

for canning. 

Lesson 36. 
Table Setting. General: A table should be made 



54 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



to look as neat and attractive as possible. Dust the table, and 
lay on, evenly, a cloth of felt, flannel, or cotton flannel. 
Spread the table cloth evenly over this. Lay the table cloth 
with hemmed edges underneath, and the lines of the cloth 
parallel with the edges of the table. 

Place the knife at the right hand, with the sharp edge 
turned to the left, and the fork at the left hand, with the 
prongs turned upward. Spoons are placed to the right of 
the knife, and the napkin to the' left of the fork. All about 
two inches from the edge of the table. Place the tumbler 
near the end of the knife blade, and the butter plate beside 
it. When bread and butter plates are used, place one at the 
left of the fork. Place everything straight on the table. 
Invert no dishes. 

General Directions For Serving. 

When a waiter serves the food, it should be passed on 
the left side of each person. In placing a dish in front of a 
person, the waiter should stand at the right. The dishes 
should be removed from the right side 

In setting the table, try not to forget anything. Care 
in setting the table contributes much to the comfort of the 
household. 



'OfiO' 




I 9 



fPis. 14. 



Table Setting. Diagram No. 1. 

1. Knife. 4. Napkin. 

2. Fork. 5. Tumbler. 

3. Spoon. 6. Butter Pkte. 



COOKING 



55 



.i^^s? 



SO r-i 




Fig. 15. 



Table Setting. Diagram No. 2. 



1. Knife. 

2. Fork. 

3. Napkin. 

4. Tumbler. 

5. Butter Plate. 



6. CofFee-pot. 



7. Hot-water Pitcher. 

8. Cream Pitcher. 

9. Sugar-bowl. 

10. Spoon-holder. 

11. Cups and Saucers. 



COOKING 

PART III. 

EIGHTH YEAR. 

Lesson 1. 

Water: Review of lesson X., seventh year. Water 
is called "hard" or "soft," according to the amount of nnfiner- 
al matter in suspension in it. Lime is the principal miner- 
al substance found in water from common sources. The 
grayish white coating found on the inside of the tea kettle is 
a coating of lime. When the water, by boiling, is evapora- 
ted from the tea kettle, the lime is left adhering to the kettle. 

When water is only slightly hard, it may be rendered 
soft by boiling. Alkalies, as sal soda, lye, etc., will soften 
the hardest water. The alkali to be used should be put into 
the cold water, which should then be heated. As the water 
heats, a sediment will begin to settle to the bottom. This is 
the mineral matter. As the water becomes hotter, this sedi- 
ment rises to the top, as scum. This scum should be removed 
with a skimmer without holes, until no more rises. If the 
water still seems hard, when testing it with soap, add more 
of the alkali, and skim a^ain, A piece of sal soda as large as 
a walnut ought to "break," or render soft, three pails of water, 
or from nine to ten gallons Soap and alkalies, as sanitary 
adjuncts, have great value; destroying germs that would other- 
wise multiply to an alarming extent. "Soap and civilization" 
is a trite quotation. "Soap and sanitation" is practically 
synonymous. 

Plumbing: All exposed plumbing should be frequent- 
ly washed with strong, hot soap and water. This advances 
both the appearance and the sanitary condition of the home. 

Bath Rooms: There is no place in the home that 
should receive more careful attention than the bath room. 
The bath tub should be washed with strong soap and water 

56 



COOKING 57 

every day; and also, the bowls, which should be flushed with 
a strong solution of boiling water and sal soda every week. 

Cellars should be kept open as much as possible, 
that the circulation of the air may dry the moisture. They 
should also be frequently sprinkled with carbolic acid, (the 
housekeeper's preparation), or dusted with unslacked lime. 
It is well not to forget that the living rooms are directly 
over the cellars, and that fully 25 per cent of the impure air 
from the cellar finds its way to the garret. 

Ventilation: As fresh air and sunlight are natural 
promoters of health, every part of the house should be well 
ventilated at all times, and all the sunshine possible should 
be admitted. Bacteria develop in the darkness and moisture 
of confined, heavily curtained rooms. 

Circulation of Fresh Air From Without is the 
prime object of appliances for ventilation. There should be 
openings on opposite sides of the room, to give circulation 
sufficient for promoting health. The patent ventilators used 
in many modern buildings, especially school buildings, soon 
become more or less dredged with dust, and the air passing 
through them into the rooms is thus dust ladened; unfit to 
breathe. In the common house, the windows are the sole 
ventilators. These should be freely opened in all seasons. 
The old-fashioned fire-place, with its wide open chimney, was 
an invaluable ventilator, rapidly carrying off the poisonous 
gases exhaled by the lungs of the occupants of the house. 

Temperature: With our modern methods of heating, 
we bid fair to become a weak and enervated people. Care 
should be taken that during the heating season, the tempera- 
ture should not stand for any considerable period, above 70 
degrees Fahr., in living rooms The temperature of sleeping 
rooms should stand much lower. 

Lesson 2. 

Starch* Review lesson VIII., seventh year. When 
starch is cooked at a high temperature, it chsinges into a sub- 
stance resembling sugar. The longer starchy foods are cook- 
ed at a high temperature, the more digestible they become. 



58 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

During the process of digestion, sttrch is changed into sugar, 
called glucose, grape sugar, and dextrose. 

General Rule for Mixing flour or any other starchy 
substance, for thickening purposes in cooking, or for laundry 
starch: Mix the flour or the starch, as the case may be, with 
an equal quantity of cold liquid (always cold water for 
laundry starch); stir until there are no lumps It should be 
smooth and creamy. Add sufficient cold liquid to make the 
mixture thin enough to pour easily. Pour this into the boil- 
ing liquid to be thickened, let it boil at least five minutes, 
stirring constantly. 

Comparative Values of Rice and Potatoes 



Fig, 16 



Rice. 

1. Carbo-hydrates. 4. Indigestible Matter. 

2. Water. 5. Fat. 

3. Protein. 6. Ash, 

Fuel Value per lb., 1625 Calories, 

^— — — ^l^ —l ^MBM 1 
M BMHHi 2 

■ 4 

■ 5 
Fig. 17. ■ 6 

Potatoes. 

1. Water. 4. Protein. 

2. Indigestible Matter. 5. Ash. 

3. Carbo-hydrates. 6. Fat. 
Fuel Value per lb., 295 Calories, 



COOKING 59 

The Fuel Value of a food-stuflp is its heat and energy} 
giving value. The fats and the carbo-hydrates are, pre emi- 
nently, the fuels of the body; yet proteids act as fuel, also. 
In proof of this, we may consider the fact that an animal 
will live on lean meat only, and still possess great strength 
and energy. Fuel value is measured in calories. It is a 
heat measure. 

A Calorie is that amount of power in the form of 
heat, that is required to raise one ton, 1.54 feet. 

The table shows that it takes 5 80 59 lbs. of potatoes 
to give the working power of a lb. of ricej while neither pos- 
sesses any considerable amount of proteid matter. It will 
be seen, also, that the potato is composed largely of water. 
Weak in proteids, potatoes should be used with meat, fish, 
eggs; or some other strong proteid foodstuflF. 

Potatoes Boiled, Riced, and Mashed: Select po- 
tatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and drop at once into 
cold water to prevent discoloration; soak one-half hour in 
the fall, and from one to two hours in the winter or spring. 
Cook in boiling salted water until easily pierced with a fork. 
Allow one tablespoonful of salt for seven medium sized 
potatoes, and cover with boiling water. When cooked 
sufficiently, drain o£F the water, and allow the potatoes to 
stand uncovered, but where they will keep hot enough to 
dry, until serving time; Large potatoes frequently cook soft 
on the outside, while hard in the centre. To finish cooking 
without breaking them apart, add one pint of cold water. 
This cools the outside of the potato, while the heat already 
accumulated in the inside completes the process of cooking 
the center. 

To Rice Potatoes; Force the hot boiled potatoes 
through a potato ricer or a coarse strainer. Serve, lightly 
piled in a hot vegetable dish. 

To Mash Potatoes: Add three tablespoons butter, 
one tablespoon salt, a few grains of pepper, and one-third 
cup of hot milk, to the riced potatoes; beat the ingredients 



60 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

together with a fork. When smooth, light, and creamy, re- 
heat, and pile lightly on a hot dish. 

Potatoes may be mashed, without ricing. Use a wood- 
en masher, and mash them in the kettle in which cooked, add- 
ing the seasoning when the potatoes are well mashed, and 
continue mashing until the mass is dry and white. Heap 
in a dish, and garnish with butter and pepper. Serve 
hot. 

Lesson 3. 

Cereals: Review lessons VI. and VIII.. seventh year 
As cereals are poor in mineral matters and in fat, their nu 
tritive values may be increased by adding fruit as a com 
pound; and by serving with milk or cream, and sugar if de 
sired. Uncooked fruits may be cooked with the cereal 
Cooked fruits, as dates, steamed apples, etc., may be added 
after the cereal is cooked. Both fruits and milk add to the 
digestibility of the cereal. 

Boiled Rice; See "General Directions for Cooking 
Cereals," lesson VI., seventh year 

To Wash Rice: Put the rice in a strainer; place 
strainer in a pan of water, and rub the rice between the 
hands; change the water two or three times, or until the 
water is clear. 

To Serve Rice as a Dessert: Combine with fruit. 
When cooked, turn into moulds. When firm, serve with 
cream and sugar, or a pudding sauce. 

The water in which rice has been boiled, may be utihzed 
in mixing bread, or as a basis for soups. The kernels of 
rice, when cooked, should be soft, yet whole and distinct. 

As rice is the poorest in proteid of any cereal, food 
rich in proteid should be served at the same time with it. 

Cream Sauce: 1 egg; 1 cup powdered sugar; 1 cup 
thick cream; 1.4 cup milk; 1-2 teaspoon vanilla. Beat the 
white of the egg stiff; add yolk of egg well beaten, and sugar 
gradually; dilute cream with milk, beat until stiff, combine 
mixture, flavor. 

Egg Sauce (Yellow Sauce): 2 eggs; 1 cup sugar; 



COOKING 



61 



1 teaspoonful vanilla. Beat eggs until very light, add sugar 
gradually, and continue beating; add flavoring. 

Lesson 4. 

Fruits, Mineral Matter, Acids. Review of lessons 
fourth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth, seventh year. 

Apple Sauce No. 1: Wipe, pare, quarter, and core 
eight medium sized sour apples. Make a syrup of 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup water, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, boiling 7 
minutes. Drop into the syrup enough apples to cover the 
bottom of the saucepan. Watch carefully, and remove the 
quarters as soon as they are soft. When all are removed, 
pour the syrup from the saucepan over them. Serve warm 
or cold. 

Comparative Value of Five Common Fruits. 











DIGESTIBLE 


J 








.? 




1 








3 






•a 




SSS 




S 






a 








^ o3 




€ 


ta 


'•B 


o 


*f 


"S 


X3 


©o 




« 


^ 


a 


t^ 


^ 


6 


^ 


g.a 


Apples 


25 


63.3 


1.2 


1.3 


.3 


9.7 


.2 


190 


Bananas 


35 


48.9 


1.6 


.7 


.4 


12.9 


.5 


200 


Grapes 


25 


58 


1.7 


.9 


1.1 


13.0 


.3 


295 


Oranges 


27 


63.4 


1.0 


.5 


.1 


7.7 


.3 


150 


Strawberries 


5 


85.9 


1.0 


.8 


.5 


6.3 


.5 


150 






U.S 


BUL 


LETI^ 


i. 









This table shows that, of these five fruits, the apple 
ranks highest as a tissue builder, while the grape ranks 
highest as a heat and energy producer; the orange standing 
lowest in both muscle-building and fuel values. 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Apple Sauce No. 2: Prepare eight apples, as in No. 
1. Put them into a saucepan, sprinkle over them 1 cup of 
sugar, add eight cloves and enough water to prevent burning. 
Cook to a mush, stirring occasionally. 

Baked Bananas: Peel six bananas, cut them in 
halves, lengthwise. Place them on a shallow granite or 
earthen baking dish. Mix 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
1-3 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. Baste the bana- 
nas with 1-2 the mixture; bake 30 minutes in slow oven, 
basting with the remaining mixture at intervals. Serve hot 

Lesson 5. 
The Invalid's Tray should appear inviting. A spot- 
less tray-cloth, the daintiest dishes; flowers to attract and 
cheer. Foods to be served hot should be served in heated 
dishes. Foods to be served cold should not be allowed to 
become warm. All foods should be carried covered, to the 
sick room, and should not be uncovered until required. 
Table napkins and doileys are serviceable for covers. Serve 
food in small quantities, and in pleasing variety. After 
each serving, all remains of the meal should be taken im- 
mediately from the sick room, and destroyed. All lolids 
should be burned. 

Drinks for the Sick. 

Apple Water: Wipe, core, and pare one large, sour 
apple. Put two teaspoonfuls sugar in the cavity Bake un- 
til tender; mash, pour over one cup boiling water, allow to 
stand one hour, and strain. Serve cold. 

Current Water: Mix two-thirds cup of cold water 
with two tablespoons of currant juice, or two teaspoons of 
currant jelly. Sweeten to taste of patient If jelly is used, 
it should be thoroughly beaten before attempting to mix with 
other ingredients. Serve cold. 

Grape Water: Wash, pick over, and remove stems 
from 112 cup grapes; add one cup water, and cook one 
and one-half hours in a double boiler. Add the sugar, and 
cook twenty minutes. Serve cold* 



COOKING 68 

Lesson 6. 
Eggs: Review lessons IV. and V., seventh year. 

In regard to the healthfulness of eggs broken in "cold stor- 
age," and their fitness for market, the "Research Department" 
of the Kansas State Agricultural College, sends the following: 

"No degree of cold will kill the bacteria found in de- 
caying eggs; neither can the micro organisms present in de- 
caying eggs be killed by heat without coagulating the egg. 
All the vegetative forms of the organisms in decaying eggs 
may be killed by exposure to streaming steam for about one- 
half hour, or by boiling for the same length of time. The 
spores of bacteria and moulds which may be present in 
the decaying egg, may be killed by exposing the egg to the 
procedure stated (steaming or boiling), for the same time, 
for three successive days; taking care that no further con- 
tamination from the air or any other source, takes place. 
This process produces absolute sterilization. Absolute steri- 
lization may be obtained, also, by heating the egg for a half- 
hour in steam, under fifteen pounds pressure." 

Toasted Bread: See lesson V., seventh year. 

Poached Eggs: Put 1-2 tsp. salt into 1 qt. boiling 
water. Place muflin rings in water, break one egg at a time 
in a cup, and drop them into the rings. Cook until the 
white is firm, but not hard. Remove from the water. To 
serve with toast, place each egg on a slice of toast, with a 
speck of salt. Serve hot. 

Albumenized Milk for the sick: Put the white of one 
egg into a tumbler or a Mason's jar; add 1-2 cup milL 
Cover tightly and shake until well mixed. Serve cold. 

Sterilized Milk: Put 1 c. milk in a pt. Mason's jar. 
Cover tightly. Place in lower part of double boiler, with 
water on the outside of the jar as high as the milk in the 
jar. Allow water to heat gradually, to near the boiling 
point. Keep it at this temperature for ten minutes. 
When used for infants, allow from a tsp. to a tbsp. of lime- 
water in each jar. 



64 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson 7. 
Milk: Review of lessons fourth, seventh, and twelfth, 
seventh year. Milk is the natural food of the young of all 
mammals. This shows its nutritive value: 



i ■■■■■■■— ■^■■■■■^^ — 2 

^ — i 3 

■■■5 

Fig. 18. 

Milk. 
1. and 2. Water. 4. Fat 

3. Lactose (Sugar of Milk). 5. Proteid. 
6. Mineral Matter. 

The composition of milk varies, from different cows. 
Lactose is sugar in minute crystals, in suspension in the 
milk. It is commonly called sugar of milk. Milk is caused 
to sour by bacteria that float into it from the air. These 
attack the sugar in the milk, and convert it into acid, called 
lactic acid. This acid acts upon the casein of the milk, 
somewhat as rennet does; forming a curd and whey. Then 
we call the milk sour milk, or curdled milk. 

Cream is formed of minute globules of fat, which are 
held in suspension in the freshly drawn milk. When the 
butter fat, or cream, is below 4 per cent, of the weight of the 
milk, the milk is said to be "poor in butter fat." 

Milk is rendered free from all bacteria, except the kind 
that causes it to sour, by pastuerizing. (See lesson XII., 
seventh year). Sterilizing destroys the bacteria that cause it 
to sour. (See recipe, previous lesson). 

Modified milk is prepared to fill physicians* prescrip- 
tions. It is first sterilized, then separated into its parts, and 
these parts are recombined in different proportions. It is 
used for infants and for the sick. 

Rennet Custard: To 1 qt sweet milk. lukewarm, add 
4 tbsp. sugar. Stir until the sugar dissolves; pour the mix- 



COOKING 65 

ture into a glass or cliina dish, add 1 tbsp. liquid rennet or 1 
rennet tablet. Set the mixture in a warm place until firm, 
then place it to cool. Serve cold, with sugar and cream. 

Lesson 8. 
Vegetables. Review lesson IV., seventh year. 

Scalloped Potatoes: Cut 1 qt. cooked potatoes 
(cold) m cubes, or slice; add Itsp. salt, 1-4 tsp. pepper, 5 
tbsp. chopped parsley. Butter a baking dish, put in the 
potatoes, pour over 1 cup sweet milk, cover with 1 cup 
buttered bread crumbs. Bake until brown. Serve hot 

Boiled Turnips; Wash and pare the turnips, slice 
thin, and cook in enough boiling salted water to cover them, 
boil until soft. With great spoon or skimmer, remove the 
turnips from the water, placing them upon a piece of cheese 
cloth. Mash them fine in the cheese cloth, with a wooden 
potato masher; pressing them in the cloth to remove the 
water. Pour the water in which they were boiled, out of 
the kettle, and replace the mashed turnips. Add to every 
pint of turnips 2 tbsp. butter, 1-4 tsp. salt, and a speck of 
pepper. Stir thoroughly, allowing the turnips to heat and 
dry slowly in the kettle. Serve hot. 

Turnips may be cooked with potatoes, and both mashed 
together. If cooked in a vegetable boiler, they need only to 
be drained, returned to the kettle and mashed in that, then 
seasoned and dried in the kettle. The smaller the amount 
ot water used in cooking, the sweeter the turnips will be. 

Turnips may be cut in cubes, and boiled as directed, 
then removed from the water and served with white sauce. 

White Sauce: Melt 2 tbsp. butter in a saucepan, and 
remove from the fire; add 1 1-2 tbsp. flour, and stir smooth; 
add a little of 1 cup of milk, and 1 1-2 tsp. salt, and a speck 
ot pepper; stir well, and add the remainder of the milk. 
Keturn to the fire and stir constantly. Allow it to boil 1 
min. after it thickens. 

New potatoes, asparagus, cabbage, celery, carrots, turnips, 
and parsnips, may be served with white sauce. 



66 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson 9. 
Flour Pastes: Macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, and 
several other pastes are made of wheaten flour, rich in gluten, 
moistened to a stiff paste with water, and then forced through 
small apertures in an iron plate, by means of a screw press. 
These pastes are all very nutritious, and have a high fuel value. 
Composition of Macaroni. 



{ 



Fig. 19 ■ 6 

1. and 2 Starch 4. Water. 

3 Proteid 5. Mineral matter. 

6. Fat. 

Fuel Value per lb.; 1645 Calories, 

Boiled Macaroni: Place 3-4 cup of macaroni, broken 
in inch pieces, in 2 qts. boiling water, with 1 tbsp. salt; boil 
20 min., or until soft; drain in a strainer; pour cold water 
over it to prevent pieces from adhering; add 1-2 cup cream. 
Reheat, and season with salt. 

Macaroni Baked: Put the boiled macaroni, with 
tomato sauce, into a buttered baking dish; cover with bread 
crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Tomato Sauce: 1-2 can tomatoes or 1 3-4 cup of 
fresh stewed tomatoes, 1 slice onion, 3 tbsp. butter, 2 1-2 
tbsp. flour, 1-4 tsp. salt, 1-8 tsp. pepper. 

Cook onion with tomatoes fifteen min. Rub through 
strainer. Cook the butter and the flour, with the season- 
ings, together. Add the tomato and onion to the cooked 
butter and flour. If the tomatoes are very sour, add a few 
grains of soda. Serve hot. 

Lesson 10. 
Breakfast: Planning, cooking, and serving a simple 
breakfast, consisting of one fruit, one cereal, one quick bread, 
eggs, coffee or cocoa. 



COOKING 
Lesson 11. 



67 



iS S as 

w -c *c j3 



t^QOOd 




Fig 20. 



rHCMW 



68 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Use of Tough Cuts of Beef. 

Soups. Stews. 

Hind Shank. Fore Shank. Brisket. Chuck. Shoulder. 

Neck. Tail. Flank. Plate. 

Use of Tender Cuts. 



Roasts. 


Pot Roasts. 


Steaks. 


Prime Rib. 


Chuck Ribs. 


Porter hous 


Porterhouse. 


Rump. 


Loin. 
Round. 



Note. — The smaller subdivision or cuts vary greatly in 
name in different localities; therefore they are not given in 
the diagram. 

The composition of meat varies greatly, according to 
the cut, the amount of fat, etc. The following gives the 
average composition of a piece of lean beef without visible fat: 

Average Composition of Lean Beef Without Visible 

Fat. 



Fie. 21. 



1. and 2. Water. 

3. Protcid. 

4. Extractives. 



5. Gelatin. 

6. Mineral Matters. 

7. Fat. 



Beef: Of all animal foods, Beef ranks highest in 
nutritive value. It reaches its highest nutritive value when 
the ox is from four to five years old. The different parts of 
the ox vary greatly in value as nutrients, and also in fuel value. 



COOKING 69 

Composition of Beef from Different Parts of a Very 
Fat Ox. 



Parts 


Water 


Proteids 


Fat 


Neck. 


73.50 


19.50 


5.80 


Loin, 


63.40 


18.80 


16.70 


Shoulder, 


50.50 


14.50 


34.00 


Hind-Quarter, Lean, 


55.01 


20.81 


23.32 


Hind-Quarter, Streaky, 


47.99 


15.93 


35.33 


Fore Quarter, Lean, 


65.45 


19.94 


19.97 


Fore-Quarter, Streaky, 


32.49 


10.87 


56.11 



Analysis by Knight. 

Placing the meat directly in boiling water, to cook, 
makes a coating of the albumen in the meat, through which 
the juices of the meat cannot pass. This method should 
be used when the meat, itself, is to be eaten. 

The fibres of meat are softened and loosened by soak- 
ing in cold water, and the juice of the meat is readily extracted 
by cold water; therefore, the meat intended for soup should 
be placed in cold water, and cooked at a low temperature. 

Beef Stew with Vegetables: 2 lbs. neck of beef, 
1 carrot, 3 tbsp. flour, 4 potatoes, 2 onions, gliced, 1 turnip, 
water, salt, and pepper 

Wipe meat with damp cloth, cut into two-inch cubes or 
smaller. Remove all extra fat. Place the pieces of meat 
in a kettle, cover with cold water, and heat to boiling point. 
Heat the fat in a frying pan until smoking hot. Roll the 
more choice pieces of meat in flour, put them into the hot 
fat, and turn them until the surface is slightly browned. 
Brown the onions, also, and put into the frying pan the 
rest of the flour, if any remains after the meat has been 
rolled. When the water reaches the boiling point, put the 



70 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

meat and the onions into the kettle, rinse out the frying pan 
with a little of the water, and then return it to the kettle, 
which should be placed so that the water will be kept very 
hot, but will not boil. Cook slowly thus, until the meat is 
tender. Prepare turnip and carrot, cut into thin slices or 
half-inch cubes. Three-fourths of an hour before stew is to 
be served, move kettle where water will boil, add the turnip 
and carrot. Wash and pare the potatoes, cut into squares, 
parboil five minutes, drain, and add to stew; cook 20 minutes. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper, and add boiling water 
if necessary. There should be enough liquid to come near 
the top, but not cover the vegetables. Thicken with flour, if 
desired. 

Lesson 12. 
Review of Diagram, previous lesson. 

Broiling was, originally, the process of cooking by 
direct exposure to the heat of red-hot coals; but, at the present 
day, we "broil" in ovens, called "oven broiiing" and by 
cooking with little or no fat, in a very hot frying pan. This 
method is called "pan-broiling" 

The object of broiling is to sear the outer part of the 
meat so quickly that the juices cannot escape. The heat 
coagulates the albumen of the meat, forming a thick coating 
which prevents the escape of juices. 

In broiling, the meat is cooked so quickly that tough 
meat is not made tender; hence, only tender meat 
should be broiled. In broiling, cook one side quickly, on the 
surface, and then turn and cook quickly on the surface of 
the other side. This, to prevent the escape of juices from 
either side. Then remove farther from the heat, to cook 
the inside of the meat. The slices for broiling should not 
be thick, or they will not cook well throughout, without 
burning the outside. 

The water in the meat turns to steam during the cook- 
ing. As water expands 17,000 times its bulk, in turning to 
steam, the meat thickens, in broiling; but if the cooking is 



COOKING 71 

continued too long, the steam escapes, and the meat shrivels 
and becomes dry; theiefore the piece should be removed 
from the heat while it is plump. 

The more tender portions of beef, mutton, and lamb, 
are suitable for broiling; also some kinds of game. Tripe, 
bacon, small birds, and very young chickens may be broiled. 
The best steaks for broiling are cut from the loin of beef, 
the top of the round, and the rump. Meat for steaks should 
be cut across the grain, in slices from three-fourths of an 
inch to an inch and a half in thickness. Steak an inch 
thick, unchilled. requires from 6 to 8 minutes for broiling; 
if chilled, a longer time is required. Broiled meat should 
be served as soon as cooked. Serve on a hot platter, and 
the plate? should be warmed. 

Pan Broiled Steak: Select tender steak from loin 
or top of round. Trim off afl the fat. Heat the frying pan 
hissing hot Lay in the meat, count 10; turn, and count 
10, and so continue until meat is sufficiently cooked; from 
5 to 7 minutes, for a steak one inch thick. If fat collects in 
pan, pour it off. 

Place on a hot platter, season with pepper and salt, and 
serve immediately. 

If butter is desired, it may be rubbed to a cream, and 
the salt and pepper mixed with it, before adding to the steak. 

Brown Gravy: 2 tbsp. fat from pot roast orsauteing, 
2 tbsp. flour, 1 c. water or stock, 1-2 tsp. onion juice, 1-2 
tsp. salt, pepper. 

Heat the fat quite hot. Sift in the flour gradually, 
from the dredge box, stirring constantly When the flour 
and fat have turned 9 lich brown, add the seasonings, and 
then stir in water or stock slowly until the gravy is of the 
desired consistency^ Continue stirring and boiling until 
smooth. 

Lesson 13 

Roasting Meat Roasting is cooking by intense heat, 
before a fire or in a hot oven to retain the juices ancf give 
special flavor 



72 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The best cut« o^ beef for roasting are tip or iriddle of 
sirloin, back of rump, or first three ribs. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth scrape the fat, if 
necessary. Dredge with flour, salt, and pepper on all sides. 
If the meat is lean, put pieces of fat in the pan and on the 
meat or use melted fat. Place meat on the rack of the 
oven, fat side up. Baste every ten minutes. 

When brown on upper surface, turn, and brown on the 
other; then reduce heat of oven. After the last basting, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper Place meat on a hot platter 
and keep it hot until gravy is made. If the beef is cooked 
rare, the gravy which cooks from it may be used instead of 
the thickened or brown gravy. 

Roast Beef Gr/>vy: After removing the meat, pour 
the fat from the pan Use 1 tbsp. fat and 1 1-2 tbsp flour 
for each cup of gravy desired Put fat in pan, add the flour, 
and stir over a hot fire until well browned. Add the boil- 
ing water gradually boil 3 minutes, season to taste with 
salt and pepper and strain. 

Lesson 14. 

The Flesh of Fish is the animal food next in im- 
portance to that of birds and animals (and with few ex- 
ceptions, it is more digestible than these). Salmon; mack- 
erel, and eels, are exceptions and should be eaten with 
consideration of this fact. The flesh of white fish is very 
easily digested. 

To obtain from fish its greatest flavor, it should be 
eaten fresh and in season 

To Determine the Freshness of Fish- Examine 
the flesh, it should be firm. The gills should be red, the 
eyes bright and full and there should be no unpleasant odor. 
If the fiesh of the fish can be readily crushed by gentle 
pressure of the thumb and finger, it is not fresh, and not 
suitable for food. Fish containing a large proportion of fat 
18 less digestible than the lean varieties. Drying, salting: 
smoking, and pickling, each, serves to harden the fibres and 
to render them less digestible. 



COOKING 73 

Broiling and baking are the best methods of cooking 
fish. Hot water and cold water have the same effect on fish 
as on meat. In boiling fish, the water should be just below 
the boiling point when the fish is put in, as the motion 
serves to break the fish. The temperature of the water 
should then be lowered, and the fish cooked until the flesh 
readily separates from the bones. Fish should always be 
thoroughly cooked, as a precautionary measure. Cloths and 
kettles used in cooking fish should be boiled, after use, in a 
solution of sal soda and water. 

Filling for a Baked Fish: 1 c. fine bread crumbs, 
1-4 tsp. pepper, 1 tsp. chopped onion, scalded, 1 tsp. lemon 
juice, 1-4 tsp. salt, 1-4 c. melted butter. Water to moisten. 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Use enough liquid to 
make filling stick together. The foregoing quantities are 
sufficient for a fish weighing from 3 to 4 pounds. 

Baked Fisk: Wipe the fish and cut off the fins. Fill, 
and sew together; dredge with flour, put bits of butter on 
outside, and bake in a hot oven. When the flour is brown, 
baste the fish, and repeat every ten minutes. Cook until 
the flesh is firm, and, on being touched, separates easily from 
the bones. Remove from the oven, lay the fish on a hot 
platter, and serve with fish sauce or tomato sauce. Do not 
cut through the large bone. Any fish may be baked without 
filling. 

Sauteing Fish: Clean fish and wipe dry. Sprinkle 
with salt, dip in flour or crumbs, then in egg, beaten with 
crumbs. Place a small amount of fat in a frying pan, heat 
hot, lay in fish, fry until brown on one side, turn, and fry 
until brown. If preferred, the fish may be rolled in corn 
meal instead of flour. 

Lesson 15. 

Boiled Fish; Wipe the fish or slice of fish, carefully, 
with cloth wrung out of cold water. If a fish is to be cooked, 
remove head and tail. Place the fish on a plate, and tie the 
plate in cheese cloth. Lower plate into kettle or sauce pan 
containing a sufficient amount of salted, boiling water to 



74 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

cover the fish well. Allow the kettle to stand where the 
water will remain slightly below the boiling point, but will 
not boil. When the flesh will separate easily from the 
bones, lift the plate carefully from the kettle, drain the water 
from the fish, and place the fish on a heated platter. Re- 
move the skin. Serve hot, with a sauce. 

Fish Sauce: 2 tbsp. butter, 1-2 tsp. salt, 3 tbsp. flour, 
1-4 tsp. pepper, 1 1-2 c water from fish. 

Combine ingredients as in making white sauce. 

Egg Sauce for Fish: To the foregoing recipe, add 
one hard-boiled egg, chopped or sliced. 

Creamed Fish: Separate the bones and skin from the 
boiled fish, and heat the fish in thick white sauce. Serve 
plain or on toast. 

Fish Hash: Combine equal parts of mashed potatoes 
and cooked fish. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Shape into balls, flatten, and saute in a well greased pan, 
browning both sides. 

Lesson 16. 

Creamed Cod Fish: 1 c. salt cod fish, 2 tbsp. butter, 
1 c milk, 2 tbsp. flour, 1 egg, 1 spk. pepper. 

Pick the fish into small pieces and let it stand covered 
with fresh water, lukewarm, until softened. Drain, melt the 
butter, add the flour and pepper, and stir until smooth; then 
add the milk slowly. Let it boil a moment, add the egg, 
slightly beaten; add the fish; re-heat, and serve on toast or 
with mashed potatoes. 

Lesson 17. 

Cod Fish Balls: 4 medium-sized potatoes, 1 egg, 
1 1-3 c. shredded cod fish, 2 tsp. melted butter, pepper. 

Fare and boil the potatoes. Soak the fish in cold 
water 10 minutes, to draw out the salt; press it in a fine 
strainer. When the potatoes are soft, drain, and dry in the 
kettle. Add the fish to the potatoes, and stir the mixture 
over the fire, to dry. When sufficiently dry, add the salt 
and pepper, the butter, and the egg well beaten. Mix to- 



COOKING 75 

{ether, thoroughly. Take up a tablespoonful at a time, shape 
into round cakes, flatten slightly, and drop carefully into 
deep, hot fat. If the balls crumble, add more egg to the 
mixture. When well browned, remove from fat, and place 
on a clean brown paper to drain. Serve hot. 

In place of shredded flsh, 1 c. ordinary dried fish may 
be used. Wash it, remove the bones, cut into fine pieces, 
and cook with the pared potatoes. The advantage in using 
the shredded fish is that it does not need to be previously 
cooked. 

Fried Fish: Select small, fresh fish, and cook whole; 
or large fish, and remove bones, cutting the flesh in slices. 
Season with salt and pepper, and roll in corn meal, flour, or 
bread crumbs mixed with egg. One-half corn meal and one- 
half flour may be used. Drop into hot, deep fat; then drain 
on paper. Serve on a hot dish. 

Lesson 18. 

Oysters, clams, mussels, and scallops, are salt water 
shell fish belonging to the family of mollusks or soft-bodied 
animals. Oysters have about the same composition as milk; 
containing carbo hydrate matter, which most animal foods 
lack. They are nutritious and easily digested, especialy when 
eaten raw. Cooking converts the oyster into an indigestible, 
leathery mass. 

Oysters are "in season" from September to May. 
During the summer months they are flabby and of poor 
flavor; although wholesome, if fresh. 

To Open Oysters: Put a thin, flat knife under the 
back end of the right valve, and push forward until it cuts 
the strong muscle which holds the shells together. The 
valves may then be separated. 

To Clean Oysters: Place oysters in a wire strainer, 
and allow the liquor to drain into a bowl, to be used later. 
Pick over the oysters carefully; taking them one at a time in 
the fingers, to remove all bits of shell or seaweed. Pour over 
the oysters one cup of cold water for every quart of oysters, 
shaking them gently, to wash. Drain quickly. 



76 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Stewed Oysters: 1 pt. oysters, 1 tbsp. flour, 2 tbsp. 
butter, 1 cup milk, 1-2 tsp. salt, 1-8 tsp. pepper. 

Heat the milk in stewpan to boiling point. Heat the 
reserved liquor to boiling point, and strain it through double 
cheese cloth. Add the oysters to the liquor, and cook until 
they are plump and the edges curled; no longer. Remove 
the oysters with a skimmer, placing them in a tureen with 
butter, pepper and salt. Pour the liquor over the oysters. 
Add the hot milk. Serve with oyster crackers. 

Lesson 19. 

Poultry; The term "poultry," includes chickens or 
fowls, turkeys, ducks, and geese. The flesh of poultry is very 
nourishing. Birds like the common fowl, guinea fowl, and 
turkey, which have a white flesh, are the most digestible, 
being tender and of a delicate flavor. A young well-fed 
chicken is the most digestible of animal foods. The short- 
legged fowls arc more delicate in flavor. The flesh of ducks 
and geese is more difficult of digestion. Fowls should be 
cooked in water, to make them tender. Young chickens may 
be broiled or roasted. A chicken is known by soft feet, smooth 
skin, and soft cartilage at the end of the breast bone. An 
abundance of pin feathers always indicates a young bird, 
while the presence of long hairs over the skin indicates age. 
In a fowl, the feet have become hard and dry, with coarse 
scales, and the cartilage at the end of the breast bone has 
become ossified, or turned to bone. 

Fried Chicken: Clean, singe, and cut in pieces, a 
young chicken. Plunge into cold water, drain, but do not 
wipe. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and roll in flour un- 
til thickly coated. Place three tbsp. fat in frying pan, and 
lay in the pieces of floured chicken. Cock slowly until 
tender and well browned. Serve with white sauce made of 
milk. 

Lesson 20. 

Roast Chicken: Dress, clean, stuff, and truss a 
chicken. Place on its back on rack in dripping pan, rub 



COOKING 77 

entire surface with salt, and spread breast and legs with three 
tablespoons butter, mixed with two tablespoons flour and 
rubbed till creamy. Dredge bottom of pan with flour. Place 
in a hot oven. When flour is well browned, reduce the 
heat, then baste. Baste every ten minutes until chicken is 
cooked. For basting, use one-fourth cup butter melted in 
two-thirds cup boiling water. After this is all used, baste 
with the fat in the pan. If necessary to prevent the flour's 
burning, add one cup boiling water in the pan. Turn chicken 
freely, while cooking, that it may brown evenly. If a thick 
crust is desired, dredge with flour two or three times during 
the cooking. 

To make a glazed surface, omit the flour, and spread 
the surface with butter, basting as before . 

When the breast is tender, the bird is sufficiently cooked. 
A four-pound chicken requires about one and one-half hours. 

Stuffing for Roast: 1 cup cracker crumbs, 1-3 cup 
butter, powdered sage or marjoram, salt, pepper, 1-3 cup 
boiling water. 

Place the seasonings in the cracker crumbs, melt the 
butter in the hot water and pour over the crackers and 
seasonings. Mix thoroughly with the hands, to a pulpy mass. 
Place in the chicken. If any remains after filling the chicken, 
it may be placed in the pan, at one side. 

Gravy for Roast: Pour in the liquid from the pan 
in which the chicken has been roasted. Skim four tablespoons 
fat from the liquid; return this fat to the pan; stir into it four 
tablespoons flour; brown. Add two cups of the stock in which 
giblets, neck, and tips of wings have been boiled. Cook five 
minutes; season with salt and pepper, then strain. The 
remaining fat may be used for sauteing sliced potatoes. 

For Giblet Gravy, add to the foregoing the giblets (heart, 
liver and gizzard), finely chopped. 

Lesson 21. 
Green Vegetables are less nutritious than roots and 
tubers. They are valued as foods, mainly for their minerals 



78 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and their flavors. They contain only from 11-2 to 4 per 
cent, of proteids, and 90 per cent, of water. Before using, 
green vegetables should be carefully cleaned, not only by re- 
moving the dead and decaying parts, but by careful washing. 
A soaking in salt water is also desirable, to destroy any germs 
that may be hidden among the leaves, etc Of all green 
vegetables used for food, the cabbage tribe is the largest. This 
natural order does not contain a single poisonous plant, but 
many varieties much used for food; as cabbage proper, cauli- 
flower, kale, etc 

All of the plants of the cabbage tribe contain sulphur. 
This is what gives the strong odor perceived in cooking. 
Cabbage is most digestible when young, and eaten raw, with 
vinegar. 

Tomato Salad: Pour boiling water over four large 
tomatoes, and let them stand a few minutes. Pour off, and 
add cold water. Slip off the skins, slice, and set away to 
cool. Serve with a cold dressing. The slices may be laid on 
lettuce leaves before adding the dressing. 

Mayonnaise Dressing: 1 tsp. mustard, 1 tsp. salt, 1 
tsp. powdered sugar, 1 spk. cayenne, yolks of two eggs, 2 
tbsp. lemon juice or 2 tbsp. vinegar, 1 1-2 cup olive oil or 
peanut oil. 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs. When well 
mixed, add 1-2 tsp. of vinegar. Add oil gradually, drop by 
drop at first, stirring constantly. As the mixture thickens, 
thin with vinegar or lemon juice. Add the oil and vinegar 
or lemon juice alternaterly, until all is used, stirring or 
beating constantly. If the oil is added too rapidly, the 
dressing will have a curdled appearance. 

The bowl containing the mixture should, if possible, be 
placed in a larger bowl containing crushed ice, to which a 
small quantity of water has been added. The oil should be 
thoroughly chilled before adding to the dressing. 
Lesson 22. 

Cake tn general may be divided into two classes; cakt 
made with butter, and "sponge" cake, made without butter. 



COOKLNG 79 

Plain Cake: 3 tbsp. butter, 1-2 cup pulverized sugar, 
1 egg, 14 cup milk, 1 tsp. baking powder, 3-4 cup flour, 1-8 
tsp. spice or 1-4 tsp. vanilla. 

Sift together the flour, oaking powder, and spice. 
Cream the butter, and work the sugar into it gradually. 
Separate the yolk and the white of the egg; beat the yolk well 
and pour the milk into it. Add portions of this mixture and 
the dry ingredients alternately, to the creamed butter, and stir 
well to make a smooth batter. Beat the white of the egg until 
stiff, and fold it lightly into the batter. Bake from 20 to 35 
minutes. "Try" with a clean straw or a flne skewer. If the 
straw is free from dough when it is removed from the cake, 
no further baking is required. Remove the cake from the 
pan; let it stand a few minutes, if baked on a greased paper, 
before removing the paper, After cooling, it may be iced. 
If granulated sugar is used, add 1-8 up of flour to the amount 
given in recipe. 

If fruit is desired, currants, raisms (quartered and seeded), 
or citron sliced, may be rolled in flour and added to the 
dough just before baking. 

To make marble cake, take out part of the batter and 
stir a little cocoa into it. Spread half the light batter in the 
pan, then scatter in the dark batter, and add the remainder 
of the light. 

Lesson 23. 

Sponge Cake, proper contains no "leavening" proper- 
ties, but is made light by the quantity of air beaten into both 
the yolks and the whites of the eggs, and the expansion of this 
air and the steam, by the heat during baking. (Review 
leavening.) 

Cheap Sponge Cake: Yolks 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 
tbsp. hot water, 1 cup flour, 1 1-2 tsp. baking powder, 1-4 
tsp. salt; whites of 3 eggs, 3 tsp. vinegar. 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon-colored. Add 
sugar gradually, and continue beating; then add water, flour 
mixed well with baking powder and salt, whites of eggs 
beaten stiff, and vinegar. Bake 35 minutes in a moderate 



80 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

oven in a buttered and floured cake pan. 

Sponge Cake: Yoke of 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice. 1 2 lemon rind, grated, 1 cup flour, 1-4 tsp. salt 

Beat the yolks and the whites of eggs separately, as in 
previou' iccipc Add the sugar to the beaten yolks, gradually, 
beating^ constantly. Add the lemon juice, rind, and beaten 
whites to the yolks. When the whites are partially mixed 
with the yolks, remove the beater, and carefully cut and fold 
in the flour mixed with sifted salt. Bake 1 hour in a slow 
oven, in deep pan. 

Lesson 24. 

Doughnuts: 2 cups flour, 1-4 c. sugar, 1 egg, 4 tsp. 
baking powder, 2 tsp. melted butter, 1 tsp. salt, 1-4 tsp. 
cinnamon, sweet milk. 

Sift the dry ingredients, add 1-2 c. milk to the egg, well 
beaten; combine the mixtures. Stir in more milk to make 
a soft dougjs Roll 1-4 inch thick, cut, and fry in deep fat, 
lard, or cooking oil 

The fat should be "smoking" hot, but care should be 
taken that it does not burn the doughnuts before they are 
cooked through. Try the heat with a small piece of dough, 
before putting in the doughnuts. It should brown nicely by 
the time one can count sixty. Keep the fat at the same 
degree of heat. The dough cools it rapidly. Drain the 
doughnuts on paper, before placing in a vessel together. 
Lesson 25. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding: 6 tbsp. granulated tapioca, 
4 tbsp. Indian meal, 2 tsp. butter, 1 tsp. salt, 1 qt. milk, 1-4 
cup molasses. 

Soak the tapioca in cold water. Soak the meal in 1-4 
cup milk; heat the rest of the milk. Mix together the tapioca, 
meal, butter, and salt, then add the hot milk and the mo- 
lasses; mix thoroughly; bake about one hour in a buttered 
baking dish. Serve with cream. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 3-4 cup granulated tapioc?, 
1 qt. hot water, 1-2 tsp^ salt, 6 or 7 apples, 12 cup sugar, 
cinnamon, or nutmeg. 



COOKING 81 

Pick over the tapioca, pour on hot water, add salt, and 
cook until clear, stirring frequently. Core and pare apples, 
arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill the cavities with sugar, 
pour over the tapioca; bake in moderate oven till apples are 
soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Lesson 26. 

Milk Toast: 1 pt. scalded milk, 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. 
flour, 1-2 tsp. salt, cold water, 6 slices dry toast. 

Add cold water gradually to flour to make a smooth 
paste. Place the milk in a stew pan over the fire, add 
butter and salt. Stir in the paste slowly, and stir the 
thickened milk constantly until it boils. Remove from fire. 
Place slices of toast in the sauce, and remove to serving dish 
when soft. Pour the remaining sauce over all. 

Tomato Milk Toast: 1 1-2 cup stewed and strained 
tomatoes, 1 cup scalded milk, 1-4 tsp. soda, 3 tbsp. butter, 3 
tbsp. flour, 1-2 tsp. salt, 6 slices toast. 

Melt butter in saucepan; when hot, add flour and salt, 
stir in tomato, to which the soda has been added, gradually; 
then add milk; allow to boil, place slices of toast in the 
sauce. Serve immediately. 

Lesson 27. 

Planning, Cooking, and Serving a simple lunch, 
using dishes the pupils have already learned to prepare. 

This lunch should be a lesson in economy, as well ai t 
lesson in cooking. 

Lesson 28. 
Yeast is a vegetable germ or plant of the fungus family, 
to which mushrooms and toadstools belong. Yeast plant needs 
no light, and it grows and multiples rapidly. It is the sim- 
plest form of vegetable life, being only a small cell with a 
thin skin and full of liquid which contains the germ of life. 
The yeast plant is is generally oval in shape, and so small 
that it can not be seen without a very strong microscope. It 
multiplies by sending out buds, which increase in size and 



82 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

finally separate from the plant and become new» growing 
plants. Yeast plants float in the air as "wild yeast." They 
float into all places where "dust" may float, and when they 
fall into the proper food for their nourishment, they begin 
to absorb the food and grow; then the substance into which 
they have fallen begins to "ferment" and, later, to "sour." 

Yeast is cultivated, like other plants; and yeast in three 
different forms, dry, liquid, and compressed, is an article of 
commerce. Compressed yeast, in cakes, is the form con- 
sidered the most convenient and satisfactory at present. This 
should be fresh. Its freshness may be tested by its light 
color and the absence of dark streaks. 

The yeast plant is killed at 212 degrees, Fahr., boiling 
point. It grows best at a temperature between 72 degrees 
and 90 degrees, and in a substance that is moist, sweet, and 
nitrogenous (glutinous); hence, all these conditions must be 
carefully considered in making bread. 

Bread dough is the best soil for growing yeast The 
yeast changes some of the starch into a kind of sugar, and 
then the sugar into a gas (carbon-dioxide), and alcohol. The 
gas, being lighter than the dough, and constantly expanding 
by the heat, struggles to escape, and thus pufl^s up this elastic, 
glutinous mass to two or three times its original size. As 
this process produces alcohol in the bread, its called alcoholic 
fermentation. When the dough is sufficiently "light," it is 
kneaded, to press out some of the gas, and then baked. In 
the heat of the oven, the alcohol escapes; some of the starch 
on the outside is changed to a gummy substance called dex- 
trine, which forms the crust. If the bread dough is allowed 
to stand too long in the process of fermentation, acetic (acid) 
fermentation begins; and we say the dough is "sour." 
Bread is Baked. 

1. To kill the lerment 

2. To make the starch soluble. 

3. To drive off alcohol and gas. 

4. To form a brown crust. 

5. To make it palatable. 



COOKING 83 

White Bread (Quick Process): (For Slow Process, 
see Appendix). 1 tbsp. sugar, 2 cups boiling water, 1 tbsp. 
shortening, 1 yeast cake mixed with 1-4 c. lukewarm water, 
11-2 tsp salt, about 6 c flour. 

Put salt, sugar, and shortening into mixing bowi, pour 
on the hot water. When cooled to lukewarm, add the dis- 
solved yeast. Add five cups sifted flour, stir until smooth; 
then add enough more flour to make dough sti£F enough to 
knead. Turn on floured board, knead until it is smooth 
tnd elastic to touch, and will not stick to the board or hands. 
Return to the bowl, cover closely, and let it stand in a warm 
place (about 75 degrees Fahr.) until double in bulk (from 
two to three hours). Knead again until fine grained, using 
as little flour as possible. Shape into loaves, place in greased 
pan, cover and put in a warm place. When double in bulk 
(about one hour) bake in hot oven, from 50 to 60 minutes. 
Remove bread from pans as soon as taken from oven. Rub 
the crusts with melted butter. Place loaves so that the air 
can circulate all around them until cool. 

Lesson 29. 
Second lesson on "quick process." Moulding the bread. 
When, on slicing bread, it is found to be very porous, 
the pores being large, it is because of too little kneading. 

Lesson 30. 
Baking of white bread. See Appendix. 

Lesson 31. 

Raised Muffins: 2 c. milk, 1 tbsp. butter, 3 c. flour, 
1-4 yeast cake, 1 tsp. salt. 

Scald the milk, add the butter, and allow to cool to 
lukewarm. Stir in the yeast, salt, and flour, and beat foi 
five minutes. Cover, and allow to rise until double its bulk. 
Add flour to make a soft dough. Divide and roll into balls. 
Place in deep gem pan, cover, and allow to rise to double 
bulk. Bake about 1-2 hour. 



84 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson 32. 

Parker House Rolls: 1 c. scalded milk, 1 c boiling 
water, 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. sugar, 1 1-2 tsp. salt, 1 yeast 
cake, 5 to 6 c. sifted flour. 

Put the milk, water, butter, sugar, and salt into a mixing 
bowl. When lukewarm add the yeast cake, and mix until 
smooth, then add 3 c. of flour. Beat thoroughly, cover, and 
let rise until sufficiently light. Add enough more flour to 
make stiff enough to knead. Knead until smooth and 
elastic, cover, and let rise again. When double its bulk, 
knead again, and shape into oval biscuits one-third of an 
inch thick. Make a deep crease through the middle of each 
with the handle of a case-knife previously dipped in flour, 
rub melted butter over one-half the biscuit, fold over double, 
and press the edges together. Place on a buttered pan, one 
inch apart, cover, and let rise until light. Bake in a 
hot oven from 12 to 15 minutes. 

Lesson 33. 

Preserving, in the ordinary sense of the word, means 
cooking in sugar syrup, according to special directions; but 
the word "preserve" means "to keep from spoiling;'* and 
there are various methods by which foods may be preserved; 
as, by drying, salting, pickling, smoking, canning, packing in 
oil, cold storage, etc., as well as by the use of sugar. Fruit 
Juice is preserved in the form of jellies. 

General Directions for Jellies: Select fruit some- 
what under-ripe; boil until the juice may be pressed out 
easily. Drain, or press out the juice. Measure the juice 
and an equal quantity of sugar. Boil the fruit juice 20 
minutes. Skim well. Heat the sugar, stirring occasionally 
to prevent burning. Add the heated sugar to the cooked 
juice, stir until dissolved, then boil until the compound 
thickens (jellies) when tried on a cold plate. Strain jelly 
into heated pitcher and pour into heated glasses. Set away 
to cool and harden. Pour over each glass enough melted 
paraffine to cover thoroughly, or use tin or paper covers, or 



COOKING 85 

both. To cover with paper, cut circular pieces of paper 
larger than the top of the glass by one inch in diameter. 
Cut slits around the edge, about one-fourth iiich deep, place 
over the glass, and fasten with white of an egg. Keep glasses 
in a cool, dry place. Jellies should not be made in tin. An 
agate, porcelain lined, or granite-ware preserving kettle should 
be used. 

Cranberry Jelly: Use only firm berries. Pick over, 
wash, and measure. Cook with half as much water as berries. 
Boil rapidly 10 minutes. Strain, but do not press; add one- 
half as much sugar as juice obtained; boil rapidly 10 minutes, 
pour into moulds, and cover. 

Lesson 34. 

Preservation by Canning: The addition of mild 
preservatives, as sugar, salt, vinegar, etc., makes it possible to 
preserve many kinds of food; but these preservatives not only 
change the flavor of the food, but in many cases they render 
the food less digestible; and none of these methods preserves 
the food in anything like the natural condition. 

Canning; a method of preserving food by keeping bac- 
teria away from it, is at present employed more than any 
other method. Canning consists of two important steps: 

(1) Destroying or removing the bacteria already in the food. 

(2) Preventing the access of other bacteria. No limit has 
yet been found to the time during which properly canned 
food may be preserved in a wholesome state; but proper 
canning requires care and attention. 

A sufficiently high degree of heat will destroy all forms 
of life; hence, heat is usually employed to destroy the bac- 
teria in food before it is canned. The food to be canned 
should be cut in pieces of suitable size, placed in water and 
heated to a brisk boil. It must be remembered that if a 
single bacterium is left alive in the food after the boiling, 
the whole process is useless, and the canned goods will spoil. 
Some kinds of bacteria are not so easily destroyed as others, 
hence it is best to boil all foods to be canned, as thoroughly 
as their nature will allow. Green corn is very diflicult to can, 



86 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



requiring a very high degree of heat; this is true of peas, 
beans, and tomatoes, also. 

Common liquids, boiled in open vessels, cannot be 
heated above 212 degrees, Fahr; but can be raised to a much 
higher temperature in a closed vessel, tight enough to prevent 
the escape of the steam, and strong enough to prevent 




t^ 







Fig. 22— Spring-top jar. 



Fig. 23— Position of spring 
during sterilizing. 




Fig. 24— Position of spring after sterilizing. 



COOKING 87 

bursting by the steam. A temperature of 212 degrees does 
not destroy all kinds of spores, but, if the time of boiling be 
prolonged at 212 degrees, the eflFect will be the same as that 
of A higher temperature. It is better to place the food in 
cold water, and then bring it to boiling point. 

Review lesson No. 35, seventh year. 

Hermetical Sealing, to prevent the access of air to 
tht food, is easy and effective. The food should be poured 
into thoroughly sterlized jars while it is hot, and the jars 
should be sealed immediately. Cans may be corked with 
cotton which has been previously sterilized by the heat of an 
oven, keeping the food from bacteria; but this method does 
not wholly exclude moulds. 

Most forms of fruit are canned with little difficulty, re* 
quiring only moderate boiling and careful sealing. 

The spring-top glass jar and the screw-top glass jar arc 
best adapted to the purpose of hermetical sealing. A wide* 
mouthed jar should be selected, for convenience. 

Lesson 35. 
Planning a Simple Dinner: This should be made a 
lesson in economy, as well as a lesson in cooking. Each 
pupil should present a menu for the dinner. The ont 
selected should be copied by each pupil. 

Lesson 36. 
Cooking and Serving the menu previously selected. 
Serving invited guests. 



APPENDIX, 

PART IV. 

For the Use of Classes Having More 

than One Lesson per Week; 

for Home Use, 

and 

For General Reference. 



APPENDIX 



A. 

The foods eaten, nourish the body to its growth, and 
repair all tissue waste produced by both physical and mental 
action. The body, then, must contain, in its healthful 
state, all the chemical elements found in these foods. The 
principal of which are as follows: 

Chemical Elements. 



Proteids. 



Fats. 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Carbon, 54. ] ™ 

Oxygen, 22. 
Nitrogen, 16. 
Hydrogen, 7. 

Sulphur, 1^ 

100. 

Carbon, 79. ] j 

Hydrogen, 11. 

Oxygen, 10 . 

100. 

Hydrogen, 67. ] 
Oxygen. 33. 



Carbon,(va riabIe) . 

100. 

Fig. 25. 

In the Carbo-hydrates, the hydrogen and oxygen unite 
to form water. This union exhausts the normal power of 

89 



90 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



each of these elements, so that the Carbon, alone, is left to 
do its normal work; that of producing heat and energy. 

The following tables show the average per cents, of the 
different Salts or Mineral Matters, found in the solid tissues 
and in the fluids of the body. 



Table A. 


Solid Tissues. 




a 






1 


a 


4 

CO 


Percentage of Salts. 




Sodium Chloride, 




10.59 


4.74 




13.00 




Potassium, 














Soda, 




2.35 


10.69 


14.51 


19.50 


44.33 


Potash, 


34.40 


34.42 


25.23 


1.30 


9.60 


Lime, 


37.58 


1.99 


0.77 


3.61 


1.90 


7.48 


Magnesia, 


1.22 


1.45 


1.22 


0.20 


1.90 


0.49 


Iron Oxide, 








2.74 


3.20 


7.28 


Chlorine, 








2.58 






Fluorine, 


1.66 












Phosphoric Acid (free), 






9.15 








" combined, 


53.31 


48.13 


39.02 


50.18 


48.50 


27.10 


Sulphuric Acid, 






0.75 


0.92 


1.4 


2.54 


Carbonic Acid, 


5.47 












Silicic Acid, 




0.81 


0.12 


0.27 




0.17 


Phosphate of Iron, 






1.23 









APPENDIX 



di 



Table B. 


Fluids of the Body. 




1 


S 

O 


a 
1 


i 

1 




4 




Percent, of Salts. 




Sodium Chlo., 


58.81 


72.88 i7.36!74.48'67.28 


10.73 


27.70 


Potassium, 






29.87 






26.33 




Soda, 


4.15 


12.93 


3.55 


10.35 


1.33 




36.73 


Potasli, 


11.97 


2.95 


22.36 


3.25 


13.64 


21.44 


4.80 


Lime, 


1.76 


2.28 


2.58 


0.97 


1.15 


18.78 


1.43 


Magnesia, 


1.12 


0.27 


0.53 


0.26 


1.34 


0.87 


0.53 


Iroa Oxide, 


8.37 


0.26 


10.48 


0.50 




0.10 


0.33 


Chlorine, 
















Fluorine, 
















Phosp.Acid (free), 
















combined, 


10.23 


1.73 


10.64 


1.09 


11.21 


19.00 


10.45 


Sulphuric Acid, 


1.67 


2.10 


0.09 




2.64 


6.39 


Carbonic Acid, 


1.19 


4.40 


2.17 


8.20 






11.26 


Silicic Acid, 




0.20 


0.42 


1.27 


4.06 




0.36 


Phosp. of Iron, 

















By a study of the foregoing tables, the pupil will learn 
what mineral salts enter into the bodily tissues and the 
fluids, and in what relative proportions; and from this may 
select the foods-stuflPs best serving the purpose of building 
up and repairing the di£Ferent parts of the body. 



92 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

B. 

The Menu for each meal should be selected with the 
greatest care, based upon scientific knowledge. By the ex- 
pression, **A well balanced meal/' is meant a meal for 
persons in the ordinary walks of life; those who labor in 
ordinary avocations; not a meal for the excessively active, 
nor for the excessively idle. Neither does it have in view the 
the growing child, or the emaciated convalescent. No ex- 
tremes are meant. No fixed rules for feeding can be given. 
Growing children, building muscle, and, by their excessive 
activities, wearing out muscle, need about as much protein 
as a daily laborer; yet care should be exercised that they are 

Comparison of the Muscle-Making Values of 
Some Common Food-Stuffs. Protein. 

Beef, round. 

Mutton, leg. 

Beef, loin, 

Beans, 

Beef, rib, 

Ham, smoked. 

Codfish, dressed. 

Oatmeal, 

Eggs, 

White flour. 

White Bread, ■■ 

Corn meal, ■■ 

Rice, 1^ 

Oysters, ■ 

Milk, unskimmed, ■ 

Milk, Skimmed, |H 

Potatoes, B 

Butter, ■ 

Sugar, 

Fig. 26. 

Based on the Govt. Analysis, U. S. Agricultural Dept. 




APPENDIX 93 

not fed proteids to excess. Only the wise mother s care 
can determine the proper proportion for her child's diet. 
The same is true of all the other food principles. It must 
be remembered that it is not the amount taken into the 
stomach, but the amount digested, that is available in the devel- 
opment and repair of muscle, the production of heat and en- 
ergy, or the growth of the solid tissues. Over-feeding should 
be avoided; the sin of commission equals the sin of omis- 
sion in many cases, and sometimes bears the balance down. 

The tables given will serve somewhat as a guide to the 
housewife in the seclection of the daily menus for her family. 

Comparison of the Fuel (Heat and Energy Pro- 
ducing) Values of Some Common Food-Stuffs. 

Fats and Carbo-hydrates. 



Butter, ■^■■■^^■■BHI 

Oatmeal, I 

Sugar, 

Rice, 

White Flour, 

Corn meal, 

Beans, 

Beef, rib, 

Beef, loin. 

White bread, 

Mutton, leg, 

Beef, round, 

Eggs, 

Ham, smoked, IHH 

Milk, unskimmed, ■■■ 

Codfish, dressed, ■■ 

Potatoes, ^H 

Oysters, Hi 

Milk, skimmed, ■ 

Fig. 27. 

Based on the Govt. Analysis, U. S. Agricultural Dept 




^ 



94 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

C 

Digestion, and the Digestibility of Foods. 

The Digestive Processes begin in the mouth; where 
the foods are masticated by the teeth and mixed with the 
fluids from the Salivary Glands and from the mucuous 
lining of the mouth. 




Fig. 28. 

The Salivary Glands. 

a. The right sublingual gland. 

b. The right submaxillary gland 

c. The right parotid gland. 

The ducts leading from these glands to the mouth are 
also shown. 

The Salivary Glands are placed in pairs, one of each 
pair being situated on each side of the mouth. The fluid 
from these glands is called Saliva; and it is this fluid that 
performs the chemical changes on the foods, which are a 
part of the process of digestion. The fluid ficm the 
mucuous lining of the mouth performs no chemical changes 
in the foods; its work is to moisten the mouth and throat, 
to assist in mixing the saliva thoroughly with the food, and 
to soften starch grains so that they will burst and permit of 



4 



APPENDIX ©5 

the action of the saliva. The digestive glands may be con- 
sidered as little pouches, with mouths partially, or quite 
closed when no food is in process of mastication; but which 
open more or less, as soon as the delicate nerves of the 
tongue are touched by food or other substances placed in 
the mouth; and the flow may be started by simply the 
chewing motion of the jaws; and, also, by odors of foods, 
which strike the olfactory nerves, of the nose, and eflFect the 
nerves of the mouth through reflex action. Further, and 
what is still more wonderful, the thought of food, when one 
is hungry, will serve to cause the glands to pour their con- 
tents into the mouth; and sudden emotions, such as great 
joy, sorrow, or fear may relax or contract the muscles that 
control the mouths of the ducts of the saiivarg glands and 
the mucuous glands of the mouth, and thus cause too great or 
too scant a flow of these fluids. Sometimes a frightened 
person finds himself suddenly unable to swallow, because of 
the dryness of the mouth and throat. 

The importance of the healthful action of all the 
digestive glands can scarcely be overestimated. These glands 
of the difi^erent digestive organs vary much in the amount of 
fluid secreted daily from the blood, and again returned to 
the blood in the processes of absorption and circulation, as 
shown by the following: 

Amount of Daily Secretions by the Different 
Digestive Glands. 

1. Glands of the mouth, 1 to 3 pts. 

2. Glands of the stomach, 10 to 20 pts. 

3. Glands of the liver, 2 to 3 pts. 

It has been found difficult to estimate the amount of 
digestive fluids secreted by the intestinal glands. 

One of the most important points to be considered in 
the purchase of foods and in planning the menu for each 
meal, as well as in the actual processes of cooking, is the 
palatableness of the foods. The more agreeable the food 
to the taste, the more readily it is digested. When a par- 



96 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



tide of incipid, tasteless, or disagreeable food touches the 
tongue, the lingual nerves send electric currents along their 
entire length to the brain; which sends a reflex current to 
the nerves controlling the little mouths of the digestive 
glands of the mouth and the stomach, and those nerves, in 
sympathy with the tongue, draw together the little mouths 
of the digestive glands, and too small a quantity digestive 
fluids flow to mix with the food taken; and the food lies, a 
heavy weight in the stomach for some time, waiting for a 




Fig. 29. 

One of the Gastric Glands; highly magnified. 



sufficient quantity of the fluids; but when a morsel of agree- 
able food touches the tongue, the lingual nerves flash the 
message, "Welcome!" to the digestive glands, and the strings 



APPENDIX 97 

that tie the little mouths relax, and all the mouths open; the 
food receives its due amount of digestive fluids, and the pro- 
cesses of digestion trip merrily along. 

The spirit of the person eating, also has great influence 
in the processes of digestion. "Laugh and grow fat" has a 
double meaning. Sadness and leanness are twins. No un* 
pleasant discussions should be participated in, at table. It 
should be the effort of the mother of a family, to make every 
meal-hour as pleasant for her family as she would endeavor 
to make it for the most honored guests. Yea, more. Sour 
looks, tearful eyes, and disappointed stomachs, are poor pro- 
moters of ready digestion. He who said: **The avenue to 
the heart is through the stomach," was wiser than he knew. 
She who began to feed her child with its head resting upon 
her breast, should have his welfare close to her heart at all 
meals. 

From the mouth, the food passes to the stomach, where, 
again, it is acted upon by a digestive fluid, the gastric juice. 
This fluid is poured, or filtered, through the walls of the 
stomach by the little puckered mouths of the gastric glands. 
This process, also, depends upon the nerves. As soon as the 
food enters the stomach, the nerves controlling the gastric 
ducts in the walls of the stomach relax, and the gastric juice 
flows into the stomach and is mixed with the food, changing 
proteids in their chemical nature, rendering them easily ab* 
sorbed by the vessels of the stomach; but having little if any 
action on fats and carbo-hydrates. The water taken with the 
food dissolves all soluble matters, and, with these, is absorbed 
by the vessels of the stomach, which carry them to others to 
be circulated throughout the body. 

The processes of digestion, however, are not completed 
in the stomach. Some of the mass, not changed in its na* 
ture by the gastric juice, is passed on into the duodenum^ 
the upper part of the small intestine, and is there mixed with 
two digestive fluids; the pancreatic juicet and the bile. The 
pancreatic juice is a more powerful factor in digestion than 
the gastric juice; because it acts upon all classes of foods, while 



98 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



the chemical action of the saliva is upon carbo-hydrates, only; 
and the chemical action of the gastric juice is upon proteids, 
only. 

The bile also enters the duodenum^ and plays a promi* 
nent part in the processes of digestion, especially in its action 
upon fats and oils, of which it is a powerful solvent. 

And yet the processes of digestion are not complete. 
From the duodenum (about 10 inches of the s/na// intestine) 




Fig. 30. 

The Stomach, Laid Open. 
The oesophagus. e. The biliary duct. 

The cardiac dilatation. /. The gall bladder. 
The lesser curvature, g. The pancreatic duct 
The pylorus. /. The duodenum. 

the masses of partly digested food pass into the small intes- 
tine, where they are subject to the action of digestive fluids 
from the digestive glands of the walls of the intestine, itself; 
and it is here that the chief work of digestion and absorp* 
tion is performed. In the large Intestine^ the nature of di- 
gestive action is putrefactive fermentation; caused by organ- 
ized fermentSt rather than the soluble ferments of the other 



APPENDIX 



S 

H 

o 
z 
< 

< 

o 



o 

C/3 



§ s 



3 J^ 

^ M OS 

s t; ti 

^ o o 
UUCJ 



. a 

8? 2 

o a 

S o 

2 c 



M 



1 



72 ^ 

<U.td 






«i2 S 

^ o 
d a .5 

a. 2 

fl to S* . 

o « > <u 



fl U M ex. M fl M 



gov 

O 2 CO 
"ti -H O 

%^^ 

o o "^ 

.s.s ° 

w 05 .2 

o b tw) 
fe 2 :3 

Oi 0} M 

M M oa 

t: t: t: 

u u a> 
> > > 

a c a 
o o o 



a 

3 






1 
u 



09* 

HO 

*3 

> 

•♦3 
5 



CO 



1 



a 



0) 



5^ a 

^1 2 



a: 



100 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

digestive organs, These organized ferments are forms of 
fungit known as bacteria, bacilli, cocci, etc., introduced in 
food. 

Foods remain in the stomach about three hours, on an 
average; about three hours in the small intestine, and about 
twelve hours in the large intestine. 

Time Required For Digestion. 

From the foregoing, it will be seen that it is impossible 
to state, with any degree of exactness, the length of time any 
food-stu£F requires for digestion. How long the food re« 
mains in the stomach can be learned by use of the stomach 
tube; and an approximate may be reached by artifical digestion. 
In tests performed by the first method, the subject should be 
a person in perfect health. However, the following table 
will greatly assist the decision in the selection of food-stuffs 
and methods of cooking for persons in ordinary health: 

Period of Digestion. 

Method of Cooking and No. of Hours in the 
Stomach. 



Food. How Cooked. 


No. OF Hours. 


Rice, 


Boiled. 


1 


Tripe, Soused, 


« 


«( 


Figs feet, soused. 


*< 


t( 


Trout, fresh, 


41 


112 


Soup, barley. 


t( 


M 


Eggs, fresh, whipped. 


Raw 


<l 


Apples, sweet, mellow, 


(t 


il 


Venison steak, 


Broiled, 


« 


Brains, 


Boiled, 


134 


Sago, 


ti 


(( 


Apples, hard, sour, 


Raw, 


2 


Barley, 


Boiled, 


(4 


Cabbage with vinegar, 


Raw, 


It 


Codfish, cured, dry, 


Boiled, 


*< 


Eggs, unwhipped. 


Raw, 


44 



APPENDIX 


Liver, ox, fresh, 


Boiled. 


Milk, 


it 


Tapioca, 


« 


Turkey, wild. 


Roasted, 


Eggs, 


«( 


Turkey, domestic. 


Boiled, 


Milk, 


Raw, 


Beans, pod, 


Boiled, 


Cabbage, without vinegar, 


Raw, 


Gelatin, 


Boiled, 


Hash, meat and vegetable, 


, Warmed, 


Lamb, fresh, 


Broiled, 


Parsnips, 


Boiled, 


Pig, young, 


Roasted, 


Potatoes, 


Baked, 


Sponge cake. 


4( 


Beef, with salt only, 


Boiled, 


Chickens, full grown, 


Fricassee, 


Corncake, 


Baked, 


Custard, 


«t 


Apple Dumpling, 


Boiled, 


Bass, striped, fresh, 


Broiled, 


Beef, lean, fresh. 


Raw, 


Beef steak. 


Broiled, 


Chicken soup. 


Boiled, 


Eggs, 


Soft-boiled, 


Mutton, fresh. 


Boiled or broiled, 


Pork, recently salted, 


Boiled, 


Pork, 


Stewed, 


Soup, beans. 


Boiled, 


Pork steak, 


Broiled, 


Oysters, 


Roasted, 


Mutton, 


(( 


Bread, corn. 


Baked, 


Carrots, orange. 


Boiled, 


Beef, fresh, 


Roasted, 



101 



2 1-4 



2 1-2 



2 34 



3 14 



3 1-2 



102 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Beef with mustard, 


Boiled, 


3 1-2 


Butter, 


Melted, 


(( 


Bread, wheat flour, fresh. 


Baked. 


t* 


Catfish, fresh. 


Fried, 


«( 


Cheese, old, strong, 


Raw, 


« 


Eggs, 


Hard boiled. 


<( 


Eggs, 


Fried, 


<« 


Oysters, 


Stewed, 


<« 


Oyster soup, 


Boiled, 


M 


Potatoes, 


4< 


«« 


Mutton soup, 


(« 


<( 


Turnips, 


« 


it 


Beet roots. 


It 


3 3-4 


Green corn, and beans, 


<i 


«« 


Beef, fresh, lean. 


Fried, 


4 


Beef soup with vegetables. Boiled, 


«< 


Veal, fresh, 


Broiled, 


u 


Heart, 


Fried, 


ft 


Salmon, salted, 


Boiled, 


«< 


Duck, domestic, 


Roasted, 


«< 


Fowl, domestic. 


it 


«4 


Fowl, domestic. 


Boiled, 


• < 


Beef, salted, old, hard. 


<« 


4 1-4 


Cartilage, 


4< 


" 


Pork, 


Fried, 


" 


Cabbage, without vinegar. 


Boiled, 


4 1-2 


Duck, wild. 


Roasted, 


4< 


Pork, recently salted, 


Boiled, 


44 


Soup, marrow-bone. 


u 


(( 


Suet, mutton. 


(« 


<t 


Veal, 


Fried, 


" 


Pork, fat or lean. 


Roasted, 


5 1-4 


Suet, beef, fresh. 


Boiled, 


5 310 


Tendon, 


«( 


5 1-2 



Based on analysis by Combe, 



APPENDIX 103 

D. 
Combustion, Respiration, and Ventilation. 

Combustion is but another name for fire. It is pro- 
duced by the union of some substance, called fuel, with the 
oxygen of the air. Before any substance can unite with 
oxygen, the substance must be heated to its "burning" 
temperature; and to produce /?ame, the fuel must be con- 
verted into a gas. The gas unites with the oxygen in the 
air, and ignites; a flame being the result. A flame is burn- 
ing gas. After all the gas is burned, what is left of the fuel 
is called ash. Oxygen is by far the most abundant element 
of the globe; constituting from two-thirds to three-fourths of 
its entire substance. It is invisible, odorless, and tasteless, 
and constitutes from one-fifth to one-third the entire atmos- 
phere, of which it is the active element; nitrogen being a 
diluant for the oxygen. It is consumed by all animals, and 
there can be no life without it. It enters the body through 
the mouth and nose, in the air inhaled, and also with the 
food taken. In the first case it enters the lungs, and in the 
second, the stomach; and performs certain specific functions 
in each case. Within the body, it enters into combination 
with the carbon in the different tissues, and actually burns 
out the broken down tissue cells within the blood vessels; 
and, in so doing, it sets free from the carbon in the blood, a 
gas called carbonic acid gas, which is thrown oflF in the ex- 
haled air from the lungs. In this process, the oxygen produces 
the heat and energy necessary to perform all the involuntary 
and voluntary functions of the body. The carbon enters the 
body in the foods eaten; occurring in all proteids, fats, and 
carbo-hydrates (See "table", page 89); but without the presence 
of oxygen in the system, it would lie dormant. United with 
oxygen, the combination performs the functions of animal life. 

Respiration, mechanically considered, consists of the 
compound act of inhaling and exhaling air; commonly 
called breathing. The mission of respiration is to "purify 
the blood"; that is, to burn up its waste matter. 



104 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



From all parts of the body the blood comes pouring in 
dark red floods into the heart, which acts as a double force- 
pump, driving the blood to the lungs and over the body 
with each rythmic dilation and contration. 

When the dark red blood, sent to the heart by vessels 
called veinSf is pumped to the lungs, it does not freely en- 
ter the tiny air cells which compose the lungs; but it is forced 
into the net-work of hair-like vessels, called capillaries, which 




Fig. 31. 

The Lungs. 
Trachea (windpipe). C. D. 



Bronchial Tubes. 



3 



lie on the mucuous membrane lining the air cells. The 
walls of the capillaries are so thin that the gases pass through 
them readily. The oxygen of the air in the air cells enter- 
ing the capillaries, and combining with the carbon in the 



APPENDIX 



105 



blood, and, in this act, releasing a gas from the carbon, 
(carbonic acid gas), which enters the air in the air cells, and 



L.A. Left auricle. 
L.V. Left ventricle. 
Ao. Aorta. 
H.V. Hepatic vein. 
V.C.L Inferior vena ca- 



'ThJX 



m: 




va. 
P.A. Pulmonary 
rety. 



ar- 



Lg. 

Ly. 

R.A. 

R.V. 

H.A. 

V.P. 



Lung. 
Lymphatic 
Right auricle. 
Right ventricle. 
Hepatic artery. 
Vena portae. 
V.C.S. Superior vena 

cava. 
P. V. Pulmonary vein. 
Let. Lacteals. 
Th.D. Thoracic Duct. 
A.I. Arteries to the 
upper part of the body. 
A.2. Arteries to the 
lower part of the body. 
V.L Veins of the up- 
per part of the body. 
V.2. Veins of the low: 
er part of the body. 
The arrows indicate 
the course of the flow of 
Fig. 32. blood, lymph, and chyle. 

Chart of the System of Blood -Circulation. 

is exhaled. This action of the oxygen upon the blood, 
changes the color of the blood from the dark red of the im- 



106 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

pure, or venou3 blood, to the bright scarlet of the pure 
blood. The pure blood is now returned to the heart, whence 
it is pumped through a different class of vessels, called 
arteries^ and is thus sent all over the body to carry oxygen, 
and pure building material to the tissues. 

The air, on entering the lungs, if fresh, is composed of 
about one-third oxygen and two-thirds nitrogen and moisture, 
with a trace of carbon; after it has performed its work in the 
lungs, it is exhaled, containing less oxygen, more watery va- 
por and more carbonic acid gas; the oxygen, in part, having 
been taken up and carried throughout the body by the blood 
vessels, and the watery vapor and carbonic acid gas having 
been given out from the blood after the "burning", or union 
of the carbon with the oxygen. The temperature of the ex- 
haled air is also higher than that of the inhaled air, and 
germs flying off the mucuous lining of the trachea and lung 
cells may be present in exhaled air also, in greater propor- 
tion than in the inhaled air. The fitness of this exhaled air 
to be inhaled again, depends upon its proper dilution with 
fresh out-door air. The importance of pure air for respira- 
tion is emphasized by the fact that in strangling, drowning, 
choking, or any other process of asphyxiation, the person 
dies by reasons; first, that the supply of oxygen is stopped; 
second, that the carbonic acid gas can not escape from the 
blood. The person becomes black in the face, the veins become 
distended, and insensibility and death follow, if proper aid is 
not given. In brief, the person suffers from oxggen starva- 
tion and carbonic acid poisoning, at one and the same 
time. 

Since the common use of gas for cooking, heating, and 
illuminating purposes, asphyxiation is quite frequent; but one 
need not suffer asphyxiation to feel the evil effects of bad 
air. Asphyxiation takes place whenever the proportion of 
carbonic acid in the inspired air reaches ten per cent.; the 
oxygen being diminished in like proportion. How this con- 
dition is caused, makes no difference to the sufferer. It may 
be caused by shutting out fresh air, or by increasing the num- 



APPENDIX 107 

ber of persons breathing the same air; or by suffering com- 
bustion, in any form, to use up the oxygen in the air. 

The deprivation of oxygen and the increase, correspond- 
ingly, of carbonic acid, is injurious long before the point of 
asphyxiation is reached. Nervous uneasiness, clouded 
thoughts, headaches, etc., occur when less than one per cent, of 
the oxygen of the air is replaced by any other matters; and 
the continuation of the respiration of such air lowers the 
tone of the entire system and leaves it susceptible to disease. 
To be supplied with respiratory air fairly pure, each adult 
man should have at least 800 cubic feet of space by himself; 
and that space should be freely accessible to currents of pure, 
fresh air, by openings, direct or indirect, to the outer air; a 
current of from 1200 to 2000 cubic feet of fresh air per 
hour, would conserve the purposes of health and longevity 
much better. 

School buildings, churches, and other public auditori- 
ums are, at the present day, planned and constructed with 
some considerable regard to the amount of "air space" need- 
ed, and to methods of ventilation; but for reasons best 
known to the "care-takers" of such buildings, in general, the 
great audiences sit in such places and inhale air hot and 
"stuffy" from its burden of disease germs, carbonic acid gas, 
and unhealthful vapors, respired again and again by each 
member of the audience. Much less attention is given to 
the construction of the modern home, than to that of the 
modern auditorium. It seeming to be granted that the daily 
dwellers will properly ventilate their dwellings; but this judg- 
ment is too frequently in error. 

Sleeping rooms, especially, should receive their due 
proportion of properly oxygenated air, at all times; but these 
rooms have, on an average, the foulest air in the dwelling 
house; and it is, doubtless, true that many of the ailments of 
childhood, which leave the system in a weakened and de- 
pleted condition through life, are nursed and developed in 
these sleeping rooms, by foul air. Mothers fail to under- 
stand that sunshine, rain, and pure out-door air are as neces- 



108 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

sary to the healthy development of the child, as to its vege- 
table prototype, the violet; the rose. The pappoose, carried 
on its mother's back, has the benefit of all the oxygen neces- 
sary to its perfect physical development; and every child is 
entitled to this great inheritance from Nature. 



Recipes. 

White Bread (slow process): 1 tbsp. sugar, 2 c. 
boiling water, 1 tbsp. lard or butter, 1-4 yeast cake mixed 
with 1-4 c. luke-warm water (98 deg. Fahr.), 1 1-2 tsp. salt, 
about 6 c. bread flour. 

Prepare the Sponge, 7 to 9 p. m., in the following 
manner: Put salt, sugar, and shortening into a large mixing 
bowl, and pour over them the hot water. When cooled be- 
low the scalding point (150 deg. Fahr.), add the dissolved 
yeast. Add flour enough to make a paste about the consist- 
entcy of pancake batter. Beat the mixtuie thoroughly. 
Cover the paste with a layer of flour about one-fourth inch 
in thickness. Invert a pan, or other cover, over the bowl, 
(or lay a thin cloth upon the flour), and cover with paper or 
several thicknesses of cloth, to exclude the air. Place where 
it will be only moderately warm, (about 70 deg. Fahr.), until 
morning. 

Look at the sponge early in the morning, as it is fre- 
quently an "early riser *. If it is about to "run over", and 
you are not ready to "make it up", set it where it is cooler. 

When ready, mix in, with the hands, flour enough to 
m'ike a stiff dough. Let this stand in the mixing bowl until 
about double its original size; place it in a temperature of 
from 80 to 90 degrees, and cover it closely. Turn it around 
frequently, if the heat is not evenly applied. When double 
its original bulk, cut off portions large enough for loaves, 
(about one pound), knead these thoroughly, on a floured 
board, until they will not readily stick to the bare board 
and place in greased pans to "rise" again. Cover with heavy 
cloth, and keep at the same temperature as before. When 



APPENDIX 109 

double the original bulk, place in the oven, and bake slowly, 
turning frequently. When cooked through, there will not 
be sufficient steam in the loaves, to burn the cheeks when 
the bottom of the loaf is touched lightly against it. 

On removing the bread from the pans, rub the surface 
of the loaves well with butter, and stand them on end, to 
cool. Keep in a covered vessel, wrapped in a dry cloth. 

Boston Brown Bread. (No. 1): 1 c, rye meal, 1 
c. granulated corn meal, 1 c. graham flour, 3 4 tsp. soda, 1 
tsp. salt, 3-4 c. molasses, 1 3-4 c. sweet milk or warm water. 

Mix the dry ingredients and sift all together; add milk and 
molasses, and place in a covered, greased mould, and steam 
2 1-2 hours. Fill the mould 2-3 full. Cups may be used 
instead of moulds. 

Brown Bread. (No. 2): 4 c. rye meal, 2 c. corn 
meal, 1 tbsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, 1 c. molasses, 4 c. sour milk. 

Mix dry ingredients and sift all together; add milk and mo- 
lasses, place in tightly-covered, greased moulds, cook over 
steam for 6 hours, then dry in the oven for a few minutes. 

Brown Bread. (No. 3): 1 c. corn meal, 1 c. rye 
meal or entire wheat flour, 1-2 c. white flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1 
tsp. soda, 1-2 c. molasses, 2 c. sour milk. 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the molasses and 
sour milk. Beat thoroughly, and pour into a well-greased 
mould. Cover closely and steam 3 hours. The mixture 
may be cooked in cups, or in baking powder, or other, cans. 
It will cook through more readily than in large moulds. Water 
may be used instead of sour milk, by reducing the quantity 
of soda to 1-4 tsp. 

Soft Graham Bread: 3 c. graham flour, 1 c. white 
flour, 1 tsp. salt, 4 tbsp. molasses, 2 tsp. butter or lard, 3-4 
yeast cake. 

Dissolve the yeast in 3-4 c warm water. Sift flours 
together, put in the other ingredients, (the yeast last). Mix, 
adding enough lukewarm water to make a soft dough. Let 
stand in a temperature of from 70 to 90 deg. F., until the 
dough is light. Beat the dough and pour it into bread pans, 



no DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

filling them half full. When raised until pans are three 
fourths full, bake in a moderate oven. 

Beaten Bread: 2 c. milk or water, 1 tbsp. shorten- 
ing, 2 tsp. salt, 1-2 yeast cake, 1-2 c. water, flour, 2 tsp. sugar. 

Put the water or milk, salt, sugar, and shortening into a 
bowl. Dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add it to the 
mixture, and stir in flour enough to make a batter. Beat it 
until the flour is thoroughly mixed. Allow to rise until 
light Add flour to make a stiff dough, beat well for 15 
min., or until light. Place in pans and allow to rise until 
double its bulk. Bake in slow oven. 

Drip Coffee: To avoid extracting the tannin from the 
coffee, use a "drip" coffee pot. This is composed of three 
sections: The upper section to receive the boiling water, 
the middle section to receive the ground coffee, and the 
lower section to receive the coffee which drips from the 
middle section. 

Drip Coffee: 6 c. boiling water, 1 c. finely ground 
coffee. 

Set the lower section of the coffee pot into a pan of boil- 
ing water; place the middle section upon the lower, and put 
the ground coffee into it; place the upper section upon the 
middle, and pour into it the 6 c. boiling water. Place where 
the water in the pan will keep near the boiling point, but not 
boil. When the coffee has filtered through into the lower sec- 
tion, remove the upper and middle sections, and serve the coffee 
immediately, or set it where it will stand just below the boil- 
ing point, but not boil, until ready to serve. In lieu of a 
drip coffee pot, place the ground coffee in a cloth, tie firmly, 
and place the mass in the coffeepot. Pour boiling water in- 
to the coffee pot, and set it where it will keep near the boil- 
ing point, but not boil, for 20 minutes, before serving. 

Lemon Ice: 1 pt. water, 1 c. sugar, 3-8 c. lemon juice, 
1-2 lemon rind. 

Place sugar in water and boil five min.; add lemon juice 
and rind to the boiling syrup, and allow to stand 5 min. 
Strain, cool, and freeze. The rind may be omitted, if desirable. 



APPENDIX 111 

For Other Fruit Ices, as orange, strawberry, black 
berry, raspberry, apple, or cranberry ices, use double the 
quantity of the desired fruit juice used in the foregoing recipe, 
and flavor with a little lemon juice, if desired; less sugar may 
be used for the sweeter fruits. 

Pineapple Sherbet: 2 c water, 1 c sugar, 1-2 can 
grated pineapple, juice of 1-2 lemon, 1-4 tsp. gelatine, dissolv- 
ed. Boil sugar and water together for five minutes; cool, and 
add the other ingredients, and freeze. 

Fruit Sherbets, in general, may be made in a similar 
manner, increasing or diminishing the quantity of sugar, ac* 
cording to the nature of the fruit, and using more than one 
fruit, if desired. 

Egg-nog: 1 egg, 1 tbsp. sugar, 1 c. milk, 1-4 tsp. vanilla, 
or 1-8 tsp. grated nutmeg, 1 spk. salt. 

Beat the egg thoroughly, and stir into it the sugar, salt 
and flavoring. Heat the milk to about 185 deg. Fahr., 
(no higher) and pour it slowly into the beaten egg. 

Any fruit juice desired, may be added, also, co£Pee with 
cream, heated to 185 deg., may be used instead of milk, 
omitting the flavoring and the salt. 

Ice Cream: 1 qt. thin cream, 1 c. sugar, 1 tbsp. va- 
nilla extract. Mix all together thoroughly, to that the sugar 
may all be dissolved, before freezing. Fruit juices may be 
added, if desired. 

Corn Meal Milk Porridge: 1 c milk, 1-4 tsp. salt, 
corn meal, sifted. Place milk over slow fire to boil. Mix 
two tbsp. meal with cold water until smooth, add salt, rub 
until no lumps remain. As the milk reaches the boiling 
point, stir in the meal paste. Allow the mixture to reach 
the boiling point, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, 
and allow to stand 20 min. near boiling point, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, and pour in as much milk 
as necessary to thin and cool to taste of invalid. 

Barley Porridge may be made in a similar manner. 
Fruit juice may be added to each, if desired. 

Chicken Panada: 1 cup chicken broth, 1-4 cup 



112 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

bread crumbs or cracker crumbs, 1-4 c. milk, 1-2 c. finely 
chopped cooked chicken, 1-4 tsp. salt, pepper to taste. Pour 
the milk over the crumbs, and allow it to stand ten min. 
Remove all the fat from the broth, heat the broth to boiling 
point, boil one min., then add the chopped chicken, and re* 
heat, Season to taste. Serve hot. The broth of any other 
fowl or meat may be used for panada, in a similar manner. 

Chicken Jelly: 1 c. chicken broth, 1 1-4 tsp. granu- 
lated gelatine, a few drops of lemon juice. Remove all fat 
from the broth, season to taste with salt or celery salt, and 
pepper. Put one tbsp. of cold broth over the gelatine, heat 
the remainder of the the broth to a boiling point, add the 
softened gelatine and stir until the gelatine is all dissolved. 
Add the lemon juice, strain through double cheesecloth into 
a cold, wet mould. Set in a cool place until it is solid. 
Serve cold. 

Beef tea, lamb broth, mutton broth, veal broth, etc 
may be prepared in the same way. 

Oyster Broth: 6 oysters, 1-2 c. cold water. Chop 
the oysters very fine, and put into a sauce pan with 1-2 c. 
cold water. Heat to a boiling point, then cook more slowly 
for five min. Strain, season the broth with salt and pepper, 
to taste. Serve immediately. 

Beef Tea: 1 lb. lean beef, 1 pt. cold water, salt to 
taste. Chop the meat fine, and place it in the cold water, 
allowing it to stand 30 minutes or more. If a double boiler 
is available, place the meat, and water in which it has been 
standing, in the top part, and set it into the lower part, which 
should be 1-3 full of cold water. (If no double boiler is at 
hand, place the meat and water in a glass jar with a cover, 
and set the jar into any convenient vessel containing cold 
water.) Place the meat thus prepared over the flame, or 
where it will heat slowly, stirring frequently, until the liquid 
becomes of a reddish brown color. Strain it through a 
coarse strainer, into a heated cup. Remove all fat from the 
top; by laying upon the surface for a moment a thin piece of 
bread, or by holding a piece of bread between thumb and 



APPENDIX 113 

finger, and touching tlie drops of fat, lightly, until all are 
removed. In case of using a glass jar, place it upon some 
rest, in the vessel of water, to prevent breakage of jar. The 
tea may be canned, and kept for an indefinite period. 

Mutton Broth: 2 lbs. neck or forequarter, 2-3 large 
onion, 1-6 c. of rice or barley, 11-3 qts. cold water, salt, pep- 
per. Wash meat until sure that all dust is removed. Re- 
move all fat, cut lean meat into small pieces. Put meat and 
bones into a kettle containing cold water, and let it stand 
thirty min., add the sliced onion, the washed rice or barley. 
Cook, slowly, three hours; remove bones and meat, take ofiF 
all fat by touching it lightly with a piece of bread; season it 
to taste with salt and pepper; serve hot. Tapioca or sago 
may be used instead of rice or barley. 

Dry Toast: Cut stale bread in 1-4 in. slices; toast on 
a toaster or a fork until of a chestnut brown. Gash the 
crusts. Serve with or without butter. 

Water Toast: Prepare as for dry toast. Dip slices 
into boiling, salted water, removing and buttering quickly; or 
place them on a plate, salt, butter, and pour hot water or hot 
tea over them. Some prefer hot milk. 

Milk Sherbet: 1 12 c. milk, 1-4 c. su^ar, 1-2 lemon. 

Freeze the milk and sugar until partially stiflFened. Add 
the lemon juice, and freeze stiff. 

Egg Lemonade: 1 lemon,3 tbsp. sugar, 1 c. boiling water. 

Pare the lemon very thin, using only the yellow rind. 
Put the rind and the sugar into a bowl, add the boiling water, 
cover tightly, and allow to stand twenty minutes; add the 
juice, and strain. Weaken, at pleasure, with a little ice or 
cold water. 

Frozen Custards: 1 pt. milk, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 c. sugar, 
2 or 3 eggs, 1-8 tsp. salt, 1 pt. cream, 1 tbsp. flavoring. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler; beat the eggs slightly, 
adding half the sugar, and pour the milk slowly into this, 
stirring constantly. Pour back into the double boiler, and 
cook until the mixture begins to thicken; add the remaining 
sugar, cool> add cream and flavoring, and freeze. 



114 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Farina Gruel: 3 tbsp. farina, 1 tsp. salt, 1 c. boiling 
water, 1 c. milk. Bring water to the boiling point, add 
farina slowly, stirring constantly. Let the mixture boil 1-2 
minute, then remove from heat, but to remain at boiling 
point, without boiling, for fifteen min. Add milk slowly; 
bring to boiling point; remove from heat and allow to stand 
fifteen minutes longer. Serve sweetend, if desired. 

Pastry. 

Pastry Flour is made from "winter wheat'*; a wheat 
sown in the fall, and growing, somewhat, during all the cold 
and moisture of the winter. It is soft and starchy; hence 
more brittle than the spring wheat, thus being better adapt- 
ed for pastrg. Spring wheat contains a greater proportion 
of gluten, which is slightly elastic. For this reason, the 
spring wheat is better for bread dough. 

Pastry is hard to digest, because the starch grains, which 
require water to swell and burst them, are saturated with the 
fat used in the "crust"; and thus the fluids of the mouth and 
stomach are unable to act upon them, in the processes of 
digestion. 

Some General Rules for Pastry. 

1. Have everything cold. 

2. Roll the crust one way, only, as nearly as possible. 

3. Handle the crust as little as possible. 

4. Bake pastry quickly, to prevent the crust's being 
more or less saturated with the "filling." 

5. Have the heat greatest at the bottom, for the samt 
reason, and to allow "light" pastry to rise before browning. 

6. Pastry Hour is best, but any flour may be used. 

7. Reduce all pastry to the lowest temperature above 
freezing, if possible, before serving. 

8. In making "short" pastry, use equal amounts of 
water and shortenmg. 

General Rule for "Short" Pastry: Equal amounts 
of shortening and ice water, or very cold water, about three 



APPENDIX 115 

times as much flour (by bulk) as water; 1 tsp. sugar and 1 
tsp. salt to each c. of water. 

Sift flour, salt, and sugar together; chop in the lard, and 
add the water slowly, mixing lightly with the fingers. When 
mixed in the bowl so that it may be moved in a mass, lift 
from the bowl and place upon a lightly floured board, roll 
out all one way by turning over, until large enough to fit the 
pie plate, and of a proper thickness, about one eighth of an 
inch. Place the crust on the plate, press it down firmly; with 
a knife, trim oflP the crust outside the edge of the plate. Put 
in filling, and, if only one crust is necessary, place in the 
oven and bake. If two crusts are necessary, roll the upper 
crust to the same thickness as the lower, place it upon the 
"filling", press down the edge into the edge of the lower crust, 
perforate in several places with a fork, and place in the oven 
to bake. 

Half the "shortening" may be left out when the crust is 
mixed, and "rolled in", on the board. This makes the crust 
"flakey". To do this, roll the crust out, spread with one third 
the shortening left out, fold over one-half the crust, spread 
again with shortening, fold over, etc., until all the shortening 
is used; then roll thin, and place on plate. 

In making pies with only one crust, the crust may be 
baked quite thoroughly before filling. Then pour in the fill- 
ing, and complete the process of baking. This is the better 
way, as it prevents the "filling" from saturating the crust, 
making it "soggy". 

Lemon Pie: 1 c. boiling water, 1 c. sugar, 3 tbsp. corn- 
starch, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 eggs, 2 lemons. 

Mix cornstarch with a little cold water, until smooth and 
creamy. Stir in the boiling water slowly, stirring until the 
starch has a uniform appearance; place over fire and boil for 
five minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, add 
the sugar and butter creamed smoothly together, and mix 
with the yolks of the eggs and the juice and grated rind of 
the lemons. Place the pastry, prepared according to rule 
previously given, on the plate, prick a few holes through the 



116 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

pastry with a fork, to let the air from underneath escape with- 
out raising the crust from the plate; bake. When sufficiently 
baked, but not brown, remove from the oven, and pour in 
the mixture prepared, and cook until the crust is brown on 
the bottom and edges. Cover with a meringue made of the 
whites of the eggs, beaten with two tbsp. sugar; place in the 
oven again, and bake until the meringue is of a delicate 
brown. 

Apple Pie: Use tart apples. Prepare crust, place 
lower crust on plate, slice in the apples, very thin. Add 1 
c sugar for a large pie, 1 tbsp. butter, a little cinnamon or 
nutmeg. Lay on the top crust, pierce it in several places 
with a fork, to allow the escape of the steam and hot air. 
Bake in a moderate oven until the apples are tender and 
pastry cooked. All seasoning and sugar may be omitted, and 
placed in the pie after the apples and crust are cooked, by 
lifting the top crust. 

Pumpkin Pie: Remove the rind of the pumpkin after 
cutting it into suitable pieces; remove the seeds and the 
pulpy mass inside the meat. Cut in thin slices and boil in 
clear water until soft enough to mash easily with a wooden 
masher. When thoroughly mashed, allow the kettle to stand 
over a slow fire until the pumpkin dries somewhat. The 
drier it is the richer the pies will be. Rub the pumpkin, 
thus dried, through a sieve. Thin the pumpkin, when cold, 
with sweet milk, to the consistency of milk porridge. Beat 
three eggs for each quart of milk used, and add to the mixture, 
stirring thoroughly. Add sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, to 
taste. Place one crust upon the pie pan, pressing it down 
carefully and raising it a half inch at the edges by pinching 
it up with the thumb and fingers. Pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a slow oven until firm throughout. 

Meat and Potato Pie: Chop cold meat fine, re- 
moving the bones, fat, and gristle. Put the meat into a 
pudding dish. To each c of meat, allow 1-3 c. meat gravy 
or stock, or 1-4 c. water. Stir into the gravy 1-4 tsp. salt, a 
spk. of pepper, and a little chopped onion or parsley, or both, 



APPENDIX 117 

and pour the mixture over the meat. Boil and mash pota- 
toes, using a wooden masher. Spread the mashed potatoes, 
as a crust, over the meat and gravy. Smooth the crust, and 
bake the pie on the grate ofthe oven, until of a golden brown; 
15 to 30 minutes. 

Pot Pie: Make a stew of any kind of meat desired. 
Put it into a pudding dish. Prepare biscuit dough, roll it 
thin, and place over the stew for a crust. Bake from 30 to 
45 min. in a moderate oven. Fowl and veal are best for this 
purpose. 

Plain Mince Pie: 1 c. meat, 2 c. apples, 1-2 c. raisins, 
seeded, 1-2 c. currants, 1 c. cider vinegar, or 1-2 c. water with 
juice of 2 lemons, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. allspice, 
1 c. brown sugar. 

Simmer together any cold lean meats till tender; chop 
fine, the meat, apples, and raisins together; boil the vinegar, 
sugar, spices, and raisins together, for 10 min.; add the other 
materials and cook until the apples are soft. Make short or 
light crust, at pleasure. Bake with two crusts, in moderate 
oven. 

Cheese Straws: Roll out the pastry to about one 
inch in thickness. Cut in two equal parts. 

Sprinkle one piece with grated cheese, and season with 
salt and paprica. Lay the second piece upon the first, pres^ 
it down with the hands, slightly; cut through with knife, into 
strips one-half inch wide and about five inches long. Bake 
until of a light brown. 

Formula for Pastry With Baking Powder: 1 c. 
flour, 1-4 tsp. bak. powd., 1-4 tsp. salt, 4 tbsp. shortening, 
(lard or butter); cold water sufficient to make a stiff dough. 
Mix as for pastry without baking powder, except that the bak- 
ing powder should be thoroughly sifted with the flour before 
the flour is combined with the shortening and the water, and 
that all the shortening is put into the mixture at once. 
Place the pastry to bake, at once, after mixing, to insure 
lightness. 



118 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Variations OF Formula for Baking 
Powder Biscuits. 

Formula for Baking Powder Biscuits: 2 c. flour, 
2 tbsp. lard or butter, 4 tsp. bak. powd.; 34 c. milk and wa- 
ter in equal parts, 1 tsp. salt. 

(See Lesson No. 25, Seventh Year). 
Dumplings are pieces of dough cooked in boiling liquid. 
In cooking dumplings, they are lighter and better if they are 
not put down into the liquid, but laid carefully on the top 
of the meat in the liquid, which should not be covered with 
the liquid at the time of putting in the dumplings, or after- 
ward while the dumplings are cooking. The dumplings arc 
thus cooked by the savory steam from the broth. 

The kettle in which the dumplings are cooked should be 
quickly and closely covered, as soon as the dumplings are put 
in; and the liquid should boil 10 minutes, undisturbed. 
Serve hot. 

A perforated pie tin may be placed upon the meat in 
the kettle, not upon the liquid, and the dumphngs placed 
upon that; then the liquid boiled for 10 minutes. 

Dumplings for Stews: Omit the shortening, and use 
the remainder of the formula, and the directions for biscuits. 
Place the dough, by spoonfuls, on the top of the stew, which 
must be boiling. Cover closely, and boil 12 min., without 
lifting the cover. 

Fruit Dumplings: Use the biscuit formula, using a 
little less liquid. Pat and roll the dough to 1-4 inch in 
thickness. Cut into squares large enough to cover the fruit 
to be used. Use fruit that has been steamed from five to ten 
minutes. Place the fruit in the middle of a piece of the 
dough, sprinkle with sugar, and cinnamon or nutmeg, mois- 
ten the edges of the dough with cold water or milk, and fold 
so that the corners will meet in the centre. Press the edges 
together, gently. Place on a greased pan, and bake in 
fairly hot oven, until the crust and fruit are cooked. Serve, 
with a sweet sauce. 



APPENDIX 119 

For Steamed Dumplings, prepare as in dumplings 
for stews, place in a tin steamer and set it over a kettle of 
boiling water, cover closely, and steam 12 minutes. 

Dutch Apple Cake: Use formula for baking pow- 
der biscuits, except add to the idgredients enough more fluid 
to make a "drop batter," and add one egg. Spread the mix- 
ture with a spoon, until it is one-half inch in thickness, on a 
shallow baking pan. Mash, quarter, core, and pare, four 
sour apples. Cut each quarter into halves, lengthwise. Lay 
the pieces in parallel rows on the top of the paste, the sharp 
edges down. Sprinkle with 2 tbsp. sugar, mixed with 1-2 
tsp. cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven, from 25 to 80 min., or 
until the apples are soft. Serve with lemon sauce. Other 
fruits may be used instead of apples. 

Cottage Pudding: Add to the formula for biscuits, 
1-2 c. sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 egg, and milk to make a some- 
what thick "pour batter". Mix with spoon, bake in a butter- 
ed pudding dish 30 to 35 minutes, or until the centre is 
found to be cooked. Serve with a hot pudding sauce. 

Yankee Apple Pudding: Add to formula for bis- 
cuits, 1 to 2 more tbsp. shortening. Stir with a spoon to a 
paste that may be spread with a spoon, but will not run. 
Pare good "baking apples"; slice, but not thin. Spread the 
pastry over a baking pan or pudding dish, about one-fourth 
inch thick, covering the sides of the dish with the pastry, also. 
Place the sliced apple in the dish, on the pastry, pressing them 
down lightly. Add 1 tsp. cinnamon or allspice, to taste, a 
little grated nutmeg, 1-2 tsp. salt, 4 tbsp. sugar, and 1 tbsp. 
butter. The apples should be one inch thick in the dish. 
Spread a cover of pastry over the apples, observing that they 
are all covered. Bake in moderate oven, until the apples 
are soft. Serve hot or cold, with cream sauce. 

Other fruits that will slice may be used in the same 
manner. 

Short Cake: Add to the formula for biscuits, 1 to 3 
more tbsp. shortening, and one tbsp. sugar. Divide into two 
equal parts. Shape one portion to flt a shallow tin plate or 



120 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

pan. Brush the top of the dough lightly with melted butter. 
Shape the second portion of the dough, and place it upon 
the first. Bake in a hot oven. When cooked, separate the 
two portions of the pastry, and lay them upon two separate 
plates, soft side up. Place the crushed fruit to be used, al- 
ready sweetened, on one half, and cover with the other half. 
More fruit may be placed on the top, if desired. Serve with 
cream and sugar, if desired. 

Suet Pudding: 2 c. flour, 4 tsp. bak. powd., 1-2 tsp. 
salt, 3 tbsp. finely chopped suet. Cold water. Have suet 
very cold. Mix and sift dry ingredients. Remove the mem- 
brane from the suet; cut the suet in slices thin as possible, 
then chop very fine and stir it into the dry ingredients. Add 
water gradually until the mass forms a "spreading" paste. 
Fill well-greased moulds two thirds full. Cover and steam 
two to three hours. Serve with hot sauce. This pudding 
may be baked instead of being steamed. 

Pudding Without Pastry. 

Entire Wheat Pudding: 1 1-2 c. entire wheat flour, 
l'2tsp. bak. soda, 12 tsp. salt, 1-2 c. molasses, 1-2 c. milk or 
water, 1 egg, beaten, 2 tbsp. butter, melted, 1 c. raisins, seed- 
ed and chopped. 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add molasses, and 
milk or water, and mix thoroughly. Add beaten egg and 
melted butter, then the raisins. Fill a buttered mould two 
thirds full, cover, and set mould in steamer, cover, place over 
kettle of boiling water and steam 2 1-2 hours. Chopped 
figs or dates may be substituted for raisins. 
Cake. 
Some General Rules for Cakes. 

1. Everything used should be fresh, and of the best 
quality. 

2. Pastrg flour should be used. 

3. Flour should be sifted before measuring. 

4. Use no melted butter. Place it where it will soften 
somewhat, before using. 



APPENDIX 121 

5. Fruits should be dredged with flour before using» 
and should be added to the mixture just before the white of 
the eggs. 

6. Spices should be sifted several times with the flour. 

7. Butter cake, in general, contains from one-third to 
one-half as much butter as sugar; also about half as much 
liquid as flour. 

8. All shortening counts as liquid; as it melts in the 
oven. 

9. A fruit cake should be made stifiFer than one with- 
out fruit. 

10. For small butter cakes the pans should be greased 
and then dredged lightly with flour. If the cakes are large, 
place a greased paper in the pan, to cover sides and bottom. 

Sponge cakes may be baked in ungreased pans, kept for 
the one purpose. 

For butter and sponge cakes, the oven should be hot 
enough to brown a paper lightly, in five minutes. For layer 
cakes and small cakes it should be somewhat hotter. 

Loaf cakes require from forty-five minutes to one hour. 
Smaller cakes from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Let the cake stand for a few minutes, after removing 
from the oven. Then turn on the edge of the pan and 
loosen around the edge of the pan with a knife. Turn the 
pan over, with the cake resting upon the table, and lift the 
pan gently, leaving the cake on the table. Allow to thor- 
oughly cool, before setting in a closed cake-box. 

Angel Cake: 1 c. whites of eggs, 1 3-4 c. sugar, 1-2 
tip. cream of tartar, 1-4 tsp. salt, 1 c. flour, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Add the salt to the eggs, and beat to a foam; add the 
cream of tartar, and beat until stiff. Sift in the sugar, beat- 
ing all the time. Sift in the flour, slowly, mixing it with a 
light, folding motion; add the vanilla. Bake in an unbuttered 
pan, in a slow oven, about one hour. 

Coffee Cake: 1 c. sweet milk, 1-3 c. butter, 1-4 c. 
granulated sugar, 1 egg, 1-2 tsp. salt, 3-4 cake comp. yeast, 
1-2 c. seedless raisins, chopped; flour. Dissolve yeast in a 



122 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

part of the milk, warmed; add the butter, melted, the sugar, 
salt, and the dissolved yeast to the remainder of the milk, 
warmed; the egg, thoroughly beaten; flour enough to make a 
stiflF batter, then stir in the raisins; cover closely, and allow to 
stand until light. Butter the pan, and place the batter in it 
about one inch thick. Allow to rise again until light. When 
baked, take from the oven and rub melted butter over the 
top, sprinkle with su^ar and cinnamon, and return to the 
oven for about five minutes, leaving oven open. 

Peanut Cookies: 1-2 c. chopped peanuts, 2 tbsp. 
butter, 1-4 c. sugar, 1 egg, 2 tbsp. milk, 1-4 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. 
bak. powder, 1-2 c flour. 

Mix and sift flour, bak. powder, salt; stir the chopped 
peanuts into the mixture; cream the butter, add the sugar to 
butter and mix thoroughly. Add the egg, well beaten, to 
the milk, stir well, then stir in the other ingredients already 
prepared. Drop from a teaspoon upon buttered pans, leav- 
ing spaces of one inch between them. To ornament, place 
a half peanut on the top of each one. Bake in a moderate 
oven, until of a light brown color. 

Other nuts may be used instead of peanuts. For more 
oily nuts, use a smaller quantity of nuts. 

Ginger Snaps: 3 1-4 c. flour, 1-2 tsp. bak. soda, 1 tsp. 
salt, 1 tbsp. ginger, 1-2 c. sugar, 1 c. New Orleans molasses, 
1-2 c. butter. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add the sugar to 
the molasses, heat to boiling; and add the shortening. Stir 
in the dry ingredients, and chill the mixture thoroughly. 
Place a small portion of the dough at a time, on a well-flour- 
ed board; roll it in the flour until covered on all sides. Roll 
out to 1-8 inch in thickness, cut with small biscuit cutter, 
place to touch on the pan, bake to brown, in moderate oven. 

Chocolate Wafers: Use the recipe for "sugar cook- 
ies", by substituting 3 tbsp. chocolate for the vanilla. 

Cocoanut Cookies: Use the preceding recipe, by 
substituting 1-2 c. shredded cocoanut for the chocolate; roll 
1-4 inch thick 



APPENDIX 123 

Boiled Icing: 1 c. sugar, 1-3 c. boiling water, white 
of 1 egg, 1 tsp. vanilla, or 1-2 tsp. lemon juice. 

Boil the sugar and water together, until the syrup spins 
to a thread. Pour slowly on the beaten white of the egg, 
and continue beating until of the proper consistency to 
spread. 

Uncooked Icing: 1 1-2 c. powdered sugar, 1 1-2 tsp. 
hot water, 1 12 tbsp. orange juice, rind of 1-2 orange, or 1 
tsp. lemon juice. 

Sift the sugar, add the orange juice, and the rind grated, 
or the lemon juice, and enough boiling water to make it 
spread smoothly 

Salads. 

Potato Salad: 2 c. potato cubes (cooked), 1 tsp. 
salt, 1-8 tsp. pepper, 1 tbsp. vinegar, 2 tbsp. olive oil, 1 tsp. 
finely chopped parsley, a few drops of onion juice. 

Mix salt and pepper, and sprinkle over the potatoes. 
Add the chopped parsley and then the oil. Mix all together, 
gently, with a fork; then add the vinegar and the onion juice, 
and stir until these are absorbed. Place the potato cubes in 
the salad dish, garnish with parsley, and, if desired, finely 
chopped beets which have been sprinkled with vinegar. 
Serve cold. Half as much celery as potatoes may be used. 
The celery should be washed, scraped, and cut in half inch 
pieces, and chilled. Use the tips for garnishing. Cooked 
salad dressing may be used instead of the oil dressing. 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad: Cut oflF the ends and 
remove the paring from fresh cucumbers. Chill, and slice. 
Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes. Drain quickly, and 
peel. Chill and slice. Prepare lettuce, and chill. Arrange 
the leaves of the lettuce on a dish, and place over them the 
sliced cucumbers and tomatoes. Cover with salad dressing. 

Cooked Salad Dressing: 2 egg yolks, or two whole 
eggs; 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. mustard, 1 tbsp. sugar, 1-2 tsp. cayenne, 
3-4 c. milk, 1-4 c. vinegar, 2 1-2 tbsp. butter. 

Mix the dry ingredients with egg yolks slightly beaten. 
Add the milk, then the hot vinegar, and cook in a double 



124 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

boiler until it thickens, stirring constantly. When done, add 
the butter, and when this is melted, stir it in evenly, and 
turn the dressing out, to cool before use. 

Lettuce Salad, No. 1: Pick over the leaves carefully, 
and wash. Use only whole leaves. Place the leaves, after 
draining 10 minutes, on a flat dish, placing the smaller 
leaves inside the larger, and serve with cold salad dressing. 

Lettuce Salad, No. 2: Pick over and wash the 
leaves carefully, drain 10 minutes. Place the leaves one up- 
on another; and slice with a knife, until quite fine, in strips. 
Turn and cut the strips crosswise, in a similar manner. Place 
in shallow dish for the table. Serve with egg dressing. 

Egg Dressing: Whip the yolks of two eggs thoroughly. 
Pour into the beaten eggs two tbsp. vinegar, add two or 
three tbsp. sugar. Beat together thoroughly. Add ssp. salt, 
if desired. Pour the dressing in sufficient quantity over the 
lettuce; lift the lettuce lightly with a fork until dressing is 
mixed evenly with lettuce. 

Vegetable Salad: Use cold cooked carrots, beans, 
beets, peas, asparagus, and celery; one or more kinds at pleas- 
ure. Cut them in small, neat pieces, mix with a chosen hot 
dressing. Serve cold. Ono tsp. onion juice may be added. 

Meat Salad: Take cold, cooked meat or fowl, with- 
out much fat, remove bones, skin, and gristle. Cut in small 
pieces; add celery, cut small. Pour over the mass a hot salad 
dressing. Chill, and serve cold. This is an excellent way to 
utilize left over meats. For appearance, arrange the salad on 
a flat dish, on lettuce leaves. One tbsp. in the middle of 
each leaf. 

Lobster Salad: Cut the meat of a boiled lobster in- 
to small pieces, and mix it with the dressing chosen. Serve 
as the meat salad. The lobsters should be first slowly boiled 
from 20 to 80 min. 

Apple and Celery Salad: Cut raw apples into 1-2 
inch cubes, or chop fine. Cut white part of celery into half 
inch pieces, or chop; mix in equal parts. Arrange chilled 
lettuce on individual plates, place the salad on the leaves 



APPENDIX 125 

and cover with any cnosen salad dressing. If the apples are 
sweet, add a little lemon juice to the salad. If desired, add 
nuts to the salad. 

Egg Salad: Use hard boiled eggs. Remove shells, 
cut the eggs smoothly in halves. Take out the yolks, being 
careful not to break the whites. Notch the edges of the 
whites in points, if desired. Mash the yolks, seasoning to 
taste with pepper, salt, and melted butter. Return the yolks 
to the whites, filling the cups full. Place chilled lettuce on 
individual plates, place three "cups" of the egg on each plate. 
Garnish with bits of parsley, or with radishes. Serve with 
cooked salad dressing. 

Beet Salad: Wash the beets and trim oflF the stems 
close, but without cutting the beet. Do not cut the beet 
anywhere, if possible to avoid it. Cook in as small a quanti- 
ty of water as possible, to retain the sweetness of the beet. 
Take out the smaller ones when thoroughly cooked, leaving 
the larger ones until cooked. Place the beets in cold water 
as soon as removed from the kettle, and with the hands slip 
oflF the skins. Trim off the shght stalky portion at the top, 
and cut oflF the root. Slice thin, and place in a crockery 
ware or an enameled vessel. Pour over the hot beets vine- 
gar to cover, somewhat diluted with water if very strong. 
Pure cider vinegar is best. For each quart of the beets thus 
covered with vinegar, add 3 tbsp. sugar. Cover closely and 
set aside for 24 hours. To serve, remove from vinegar, heat 
hot in oven, place on individual plates, heated, and pour over 
each slice 1-4 tsp. melted butter. Garnish with sprigs of 
parsley. 

Sweet Potato and Bacon Salad: Cook and peel 
sweet potatoes of more than medium size. Slice thin. Slice 
smoked or salt bacon, thin, cut in small squares. Fry 
isaute) until crisp as possible. "Sandwich" each slice of ba- 
con thoroughly drained, between two slices of potata Serve 
cold on individual plates, placing each sandwich by itself, with 
any desired dressing. A thick white lauce made of milk or 



126 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

cream, placing a teaspoonful on the top of each sandwich' is 
excellent. 

Turnip Salad: Pare and slice turnips, cooking in the 
smallest possible quantity of water, with 1 tbsp. sugar to each 
pt. of water and turnip together. When the turnips are soft, 
but yet firm, remove them, piece by piece with a fork, from 
the water. Place them while hot, in a shallow crockery-ware 
or enameled vessel, pouring over them a little vinegar. 
Allow to stand a few hours; remove when needed, drain in a 
strainer, place in piles an inch deep, on lettuce leaves, on in- 
dividual plates. Chill or cool. Serve with a white sauce. 

Candy. 
Terms Used in Candy Making. 

1. Soft Ball: When a little is dropped into cold wa- 
ter, a soft ball can be made. 

2. Hard Ball: When dropped into cold water, it be- 
comes hard. 

3. Thread: When a little is dropped from a spoon, 
it becomes a thread. 

4. The Crack: When tried in cold water, it becomes 
brittle. 

5. Carmtl: At a temperature of 365 deg. Fahr., sugar 
becomes a clear, colorless liquid; *'barleg sugar\ At a 
temperature of 420 deg. Fahr., the sugar turns brown. It is 
now carmel. 

Fudge: 2 c. sugar, 1 c. milk, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. va- 
nilla, 1-4 2-oz. cake of bitter chocolate, or 4 tbsp. cocoa. 
Boil sugar, chocolate (or cocoa), and the milk together, until 
it reaches soft ball. Remove from the fire, and add butter 
and flavoring. Beat until creamy and thickened. Pour 
quickly into a greased tin. When firm, cut in squares. 

Peanut Brittle: 2 c. sugar, 1-2 c. to 1 c. shelled 
peanuts. 

Break the peanuts in pieces or chop them. Line a 
greased pan with the nuts. Put sugar into a saucepan, and 
heat till it becomes a thin light brown syrup, stirring con- 



APPENDIX 127 

stantly. Pour over the peanuts, and mark in squares; when 
cool, break in pieces. Any other nuts may be used in the 
same manner. 

Glace Nuts; 2 c sugar, 1 c boiling water, 1 tsp. 
cream tartar. Put ingredients in a saucepan, stir, and heat 
to boiling point. Boil without stirring until the syrup reach- 
es the crackt (310 deg., Fahr.). Remove any granulation of 
sugar from sides of saucepan. Remove saucepan from fire, 
and place instantly in a large pan of cold water, to stop the 
boiling. Remove from the cold water, and place in a pan 
of hot water during dipping. Take the kernels of the nuts 
on a long pin, dip in the syrup to cover, remove from syrup, 
and place on an oiled paper. If the syrup begins to crystal- 
ize, set back on the stove until it just comes to the boiling 
point, then remove, and dip again. 

Chocolate Creams: 2 eggs, 2 tsp. vanilla, 4 squares 
Baker's Chocolate. 

Put white of eggs with same quantity of cold water in 
a suitable vessel, add the vanilla, and beat thoroughly. Beat 
in sifted sugar (confectioner's) until the mass is of the con- 
sistency of stiff dough. Take small pieces in the fingers and 
mould into thimble shape, and place them, large end 
down, on a buttered dish, to harden. Set these to cool. 
Melt the chocolate in a small vessel over steam, to prevent 
burning; a bowl set into the top of a teakettle will answer the 
purpose. When the creams are cool and hard, 
take them up one at a time between two forks, or on the flat 
of a fork, dip them into the melted chocolate, let them drain 
on the forks, and place them carefully on the buttered tins 
again to dry. To box, wrap each in a square of tissue paper, 
or tinsel, and place in the box lightly. 

Nuts may be dipped in chocolate in the same manner. 

CocoANUT Drops: 1-2 c sugar, 1-2 c. molasses, 1 c. 
grated cocoanut. 

Mix all together and boil slov/ly, stirring constantly, until 
•'hard ball" is reached. Remove from the fire, and stir slowly 



128 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

until the mixture cools. Drop by teaspoonful on pans well 
buttered, to cool. 

Penoche: 2 c. brown sugar, 3-4 c. milk, 2 tbsp. butter, 
1 tsp. vanilla, 1 c. chopped nuts, mixed or alike. 

Put sugar in milk and boil until "soft ball" is reached, 
remove from heat, and add the other ingredients. Beat 
until creamy, pour into a flat, greased, rectangular tin. When 
sufficiently cooled, cut in squares or oblongs. 

Molasses Candy: Place the molasses in a greased ves- 
sel and boil until the "thread" is reached. Pour into a but- 
tered pan, to cool. When cool enough to handle, take it 
from the pan in quantities as large as convenient to handle, 
and "pull" it, until it is as light colored as desired. 

Soups. 

Corn Soup: 1 can corn, 2 c. cold water, 1 qt. hot 
milk, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. chopped onion, 3 tbsp. flour, 2 
tsp. full salt, 1-8 tsp. white pepper, yolks of 2 eggs. 

Chop the corn, add the cold water, and boil twenty 
minutes. Melt the butter, add the chopped onion, and cook 
the onion in the butter until light brown. Add the flour to 
the butter and onion, and when thoroughly mixed, add the 
milk gradually, stirring constantly. Add this mixture to the 
boiled corn, and season with salt and pepper. Rub through 
a sieve, and re-heat to the boiling point. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs with 2 tbsp. cold milk, and put the mass into a soup 
tureen, pour in the soup, stirring constantly. 

Mock Bisque Soup: 1-2 can tomatoes, 2 tsp. sugar, 
1-4 tsp. soda, 1 qt. milk, 1 slice onion, 4 tbsp. flour, 1-4 c 
cold water, 1 tsp. salt, 1-8 tsp. pepper, 4 tbsp. butter. 

Put the onion in the milk, and scald. Cook the toma- 
toes and sugar together 15 m. Mix the cold water with the 
flour, and stir until smooth. Stir in the hot milk slowly, 
and remove the onion. Heat the mixture, boiling 5 m., 
stirring constantly. Strain the tomatoes, and add the soda. 
When the bubbling ceases, combine with the thickened milk, 



APPENDIX 129 

and strain into a tureen containing the butter, salt, and pep^ 
per. Serve immediately. 

Cream of Green Peas: 1 pt. of peas, or 1 can peas; 
2 c. water, 1 tsp. sugar, 2 c. milk, scalded; 1-2 small onion, 
sliced; 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1-4 ssp. white 
pepper. 

Mash the peas, if fresh, and drain, if canned. Cook 
peas, onion, sugar, and water, together, until the peas are 
very soft. Mash the peas in the water in which they were 
boiled, and strain. Melt the butter, add the flour, stir well, 
and add a portion of the strained liquid. Boil 3 m., stirring 
constantly. Add the remainder of the strained liquid, thin 
with hot milk, and add the salt and pepper. Re-heat to the 
boiling point, and serve. 

Asparagus, celery, and other vegetables may be used in 
a similar manner for soups. 

Ox Tail Soup. 

Wipe the ox-tail and separate it at the joints. Put into 
a kettle with cold water, and heat slowly to the boiling point. 
Boil gently 3 hrs. Add 1-2 carrot, 1-2 turnip, and one sliced 
onion, and cook an hr. longer. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and serve the meat with the soup. 

Baked Bean Soup: 1 c. baked beans, 1 1-2 c. water, 
1-8 onion, 3-4 c. tomatoes, 1-2 tbsp. butter, 1-2 tbsp. flour, 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Place first three ingredients in the water, boil briskly 15 
min. Mash, and strain through wire strainer, add butter and 
flour cooked together, add seasonings, and thin with milk or 
hot water. Re-heat before serving. 

Chicken Soup: Prepare the fowl for cooking. Place 
the meat in the vessel for cooking, cover with water, (when 
the meat is to be eaten, add 1 tsp. salt), and cook slowly from 
2 1 2 to 3 hours; or until the meat is very tender. Remove 
the meat, and allow the liquor to continue boiling. Add 2 
tbsp. rice, 2 tbsp. chopped onion, previously fried in butter 
until soft, 3 peppercorns. Let boil slowly until the 



130 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

rice is cooked, soft. Add pepper, white or black, and celery 
salt, to taste. Add sufficient boiling water to replace 
that boiled away. Serve with crackers or crutons. Serve 
chicken on separate dish. 

Mutton Soup: 3 lbs. neck of mutton, 3-4 c. pearl 
barley, 3 qts. cold water, 3-8 c. each, of carrot, turnip, onion, 
and celery; 3 tbsp. butter, 1 1-2 tbsp. flour, 2 tsp. salt, a little 
chopped parsley, pepper to taste. 

Prepare the meat, removing fat and skin. Cut the 
meat from the bones and cut into small pieces. Put the 
bones to boil, just covered with cold water, in one vessel, and 
the meat in 2 1-4 qts, cold water, in another vessel. Boil 
the meat rapidly 20 to 30 min.; skim off fat; add the barley. 
Add the vegetables, cut in cubes or sliced thin, after frying 
them 5 to 8 min. in the butter. Stew slowly 3 to 4 hours, 
until both meat and barley are very tender. Take the bones 
from the liquid in which boiled, strain the liquid. Put 1 
tbsp. butter into a saucepan, when hot stir in the flour, stir- 
ring until smooth. Thin this by adding the strained liquor, 
slowly, stirring constantly. Add this mixture to the broth, 
with the salt and other ingredients. Simmer a few minutes, 
and serve. 

Gelatine Dishes. 
Lemmon Jelly: 2 tbsp. granulated gelatine, 1-2 ccold 
water, 1 1-2 c. sugar, ssp. salt, 2 1-2 c. boiling water, 1*2 c. 
lemon juice. 

Soak gelatine in cold water until soft, adding the salt; 
pour over it the boiling water, stirring until dissolved. Add 
sugar, and pour into moulds wet with cold water; chill. 

Lemon Jelly Pudding: Make the lemon jelly as 
above directed. Set a pudding mould in a pan of ice water, 
pour in the jelly until 1-2 inch deep. When firm, place 
any desired fruit upon it, covering the fruit with the jelly by 
use of a spoon. When firm, add another layer of fruit, 
covering as before, etc., until all is used. The jelly must 
be allowed to become firm each time adding, before placing 
another layer of fruit. Serve with any desired sauce or with 



I 



APPENDIX 131 

cream. Other fruit jellies may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

Snow Pudding: Prepare the lemon jelly, add whites 
of 3 eggs beaten stiff; beat until stiff enough to keep in shape; 
mould. Serve with sugar and cream. Other fruit jellies 
of gelatine may be prepared in the same manner. 

Chartreuse: Make a sponge cake and, when cold, cut 
out the centre, leaving only enough cake at the bottom and 
sides to hold the jelly. Fill the centre with any fruit jelly 
made with gelatine, using the jelly when just ready to 
"form". Set the cake to cool. To serve, cover the top with 
frosting, or with a mixture of 1 c. thick cream, 1 c. milk, 
beaten, until stiff, with 1-4 c. confectioner's sugar; season with 
vanilla, or other desired flavoring. 

Pickles and Relishes. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches: 1 qt. vinegar, 4 lbs. sugar 

1 oz. stick cinnamon, 1-2 oz. whole cloves. 

Prepare fruit as for canning. Boil vinegar and sugar 
together for five minutes. Tie the spices in a cheesecloth 
bag, and cook in the syrup, skimming, if necessary. Place a 
few of the peaches at a time in the syrup, and cook until 
sufficiently soft. Put the fruit into sterilized jars, fill, to 
overflowing, with syrup. Close jars according to directions 
for hermetical sealing. These proportions are sufficient for 
seven pounds of fruit. 

Pears, plums, apricots, sweet apples, or other suitable 
fruits, and the rind of watermelons and muskmelons, may 
be used instead of peaches. 

Chow-chow: 1 pk. green tomatoes, 1 bunch celery, 6 
small onions, 2 green peppers, 2 lbs. brown sugar, 1 tbsp. 
allspice, 1 tbsp. cloves, 1 tbsp. cinnamon, 1 tbsp. pepper, salt, 

2 to 3 qts. of vinegar. 

Wash tomatoes, remove hard piece at stem end, and 
slice them. Arrange in layers, covering each layer with salt; 
let stand 24 hours, then drain off the salt liquid, and rinse 
in fresh, cold water. Chop the tomatoes, celery, onions, and 



132 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

peppers fine; put tKem into a preserving kettle with the sug- 
ar, spices, and vinegar. Heat to boiling point, then cook 
slowly 2 hrs., and cover. Cabbage may be used instead of 
celery. 

Jams. 

Jams arc usually made of small fruits or berries; but 
large fruits may be used by cutting fine. 

Prepare the fruits, and weigh, using equal weights of 
fruit and sugar, with tart fruits; and three-fourths the weight 
of the fruit, in sugar, for sweet fruits. 

Cook the fruits in clear water, mashing while they are 
heating, stirring to the bottom, frequently. Cook until the 
fruit is very soft. Heat the sugar in a pan set over a vessel 
of hot water. When the sugar is thoroughly heated, add it 
to the fruit, and cook 20 min., to thicken the jam. Place 
in tumblers or jars, cool, and cover closely, as for jellies. No 
separate recipes are necessary for jams. 

Miscellaneous 

Butter (experiment): 1-2 c. cream, sweet or sour; 1-8 
tsp. salt. Shake the cream in a wide-mouthed bottle tightly 
corked; or stir in a bowl, beating with a Dover egg-beater, un- 
til the butter fat separates from the liquid part of the milk. 
Continue shaking or beating until the particles of butter col- 
lect in little balls, and then into one large mass. Remove 
the mass from the milk, place it in a wooden bowl and wash 
it in several waters, using a wooden ladle, until the water is 
quite clear. Drain off the water, sprinkle in the salt, and 
work the salt into the butter and much of the water out of the 
butter at the same time, using the ladle. Make up into a 
round ball, place on a butter dish, and shape to suit the 
fancy. 

Nutmeg Sauce: 1 tbsp. cornstarch, 1-2 c. sugar, 11-2 
tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 c. boiling water, 1-8 tsp. nutmeg. 

Combine cornstarch and sugar; add the water gradually 
stirring constantly. Boil 5 min.; remove from fire, add the 
butter and nutmeg, stirring. 



APPENDIX 133 

Hard Sauce: 1-4 c. butter, 1-2 c. powd. sugar, 30 
drops vanilla, or 1-8 tsp. nutmeg. 

Rub the butter in a bowl until creamy; add the sugar 
gradually, then the vanilla. Grate nutmeg over the top. Set 
in a cold place to harden. Serve with hot pudding. 

Crust Pudding: 2 c. bread crumbs, 1-2 c. sugar, 1-4 
tsp. salt, 1-4 tsp. cinnamon, 1-2 c. seeded raisins, 2 c. milk. 

Scald the milk, break crusts in small pieces, and brown 
in oven. Add sugar, salt, cinnamon, and raisins; mix well; 
pour on milk, and let stand 10 min.; bake until milk is ab- 
sorbed. An egg may be added, beaten to the sugar and 
seasonings, and the milk added slowly before putting in the 
crumbs. If egg is used, use 3 c. milk. Serve with hard 
sauce. 

Scalloped Tomatoes: 2 c. tomatoes, 11-4 tsp. salt, 
3 tbsp. butter, 1 1-2 c. bread crumbs, pepper if desired. 

Cook tomatoes 10 min., with salt and pepper. Butter 
the crumbs, and put 1-3 of them in a buttered pudding dish; 
place a layer of one-half the tomatoes over them; place 1-3 
of the crumbs upon the tomatoes, and the second half of the 
tomatoes upon them, cover with remaining 1-3 of crumbs; 
place a cover over the dish, set in the oven and cook, covered, 
20 min., on bottom of oven. Uncover, and set on grate to 
brown. If raw tomatoes are used, cook 1 hour. 

F. 

Table Showing the Fuel Value of Different Pood- 
Stuffs, in Calories. 

Food-stuffs. No. of Calories per Pound 

Salt fat pork, smoked, 3,555. 

Butter, 3,410. 

Bacon, 2,720. 

Cream crackers, 1,925. 

Oat breakfast food, 1,800. 

Wheat, " " 1,680. 

Corn meal, 1,640. 



134 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pork ham, smoked, 1,635. 

Wheat flour, patent, 1,635. 

Rice, 1.625. 

Rye flour, 1,620. 

Beans, white, dried, 1,520. 

Mutton ham, 1,415. 

Pork ham, fresh, 1.320. 

Mutton loin chops, 1,245. 

Bread, white wheat, 1,200. 

Beef ribs, fresh, 1,135. 

Turkey, 1.060. 

Beef loin, fresh, 1,025. 

Salmon, canned, 915. 

Beef, chuck ribs, 910. 

Beef, round, 890. 

Mutton leg, 890. 



Cream, 

Beef, dried, smoked, 790. 

Poultry, fowl, 765. 

Beef shoulder, fresh, 715. 

Veal cutlets, round, 695. 

Eggs, raw, 635. 

Veal leg, 625. 

Sweet potatoes, fresh, 440. 

Mackerel, 370, 

Codfish, salt, 325. 

Milk, unskimmed, 310, 

Potatoes, 295 

Grapes, 295, 

Bananas, 260, 

Oysters, solid, 225, 

Codfish, fresh, 220. 

Apples, 190. 

Skimmed milk, 165, 

Beets, fresh, 160. 

Oranges, 150. 

Strawberries^ 150. 



APPENDIX 135 

PART V. 
Light Cooking and Serving Lquipment. 

Used in the Elementary School of Kansas City, Mo. 
For a Class of 24 Girls. 

24 Wire Strainers, No. 2-B. 

24 Graduated Measuring Cups. 

24 Tin Tablespoons, No. 44. 

24 Tin Teaspoons. 

24 Iron Handled Case Knives. 

24 Iron Handled Case Forks. 

24 Paring Knives, No. 400 asst. 

24 Royal Stew Pans, No. 16. 

24 Covers for same. 

24 Royal Rice Boilers, No. 14. 

24 Acme Frying Pans, No. 00. 

24 Tin Pie Pans, 8 inch. 

24 Tin Pie Pans, 6-inch. 

24 Wooden Spoons, 12-inch. 

24 Daisy Hand Brushes. 

24 Asbestos Mats, No. XX. 

24 Bread Boards, 16x22 inches. 

24 Biscuit Cutters, No. 22. 

24 Rolling Pins. No. XX. 

24 Wire Egg Beaters. 

24 White Metal Tablespoons, No. 148. 

24 White Metal Teaspoons, No. 74. 

12 Royal Dish Pans, 8-qt 

12 Cake Tins, l-pt„ No. 31. 

12 Royal Coffee Pots, 1-pt. 

12 Royal Tea Pots. 1 pt. 

12 Twin Match Safes, Iron. 

12 Royal Soap Dishes, No. 50. 

12 Mason's Jars, 1-pt. 

12 Royal Pails, with covers. 

12 Japanned Pepper Shakers, No. 15. 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 






12 Graves Ovens, No. 5. 

12 Iron Oven Pans, No. 7. 

12 White Metal Teaspoons. 

12 Hot Plates, 2 Burners. 

6 Daisy Therm., registering 165 degrees Fahr., or 
more. 

6 Mason's Jars, qt. 

3 Mason's Jars, 2-qt. 

3 Cream City Graters. 

2 only, 4 gal. Tin Cans with Covers. 

1 only, 5-qt. Royal Pres. Kettle, with Cover, No. 24. 

1 only, 8-qt. Royal Pres. Kettle with Cover, No. 010. 

1 only. Frying Kettle and Basket, No. 1100. 

1 only, Royal Teakettle, No. 70. I 

1 only, Silver's Potato Press. 

1 only; Galv. Garbage Can, 5 gal. 

1 only, Tin Funnel, pt. No. 20. 

1 only. Sad Iron, common, 5 lb. 

1 only, Crumb Tray and Brush, No. 020. 

1 only, Japanned Flour Dredge, No. 02. t 

1 only. Wire Veg. Boiler, No. 2. | 

1 only, Cork Screw and Can Opener, combined, Na 
17. 

1 only, Bread Knife. 

1 only, Dover Egg Beater. 

1 only. Royal Basting Spoon, No. 14. 

1 only. Flesh Fork, No. 912. 

1 only, Japanned Spice Box, 6 Cups. 

1 only, Hunter's Flour Sieve. 

1 only. Tin Flour Scoop. 

1 only. Glass Juice Extractor. 

1 only. Butter Knife, White Metal, No. 26. 

1 only, Tin Skimmer, no holes. 

1 only, Swiss Scissors, 5-in., No. 667 

1 only, Clothes Drier, No. 2 1-4. 

1 only Jap'd Bread Box, No. 14. 

1 only; 3-piece Carving Set, No. 070. 



APPENDIX 137 

1 only, Meat Knife, Wilson's No. 12. 
1 only, Royal Sink Strainer. 
1 only, Jap'd Flour Can, 25-lb. 

24 YcUow-warc Mixing Bowls. 
24 Yellow-ware Bowls, No. 30. 
24 White Granite Bowls, No. 36. 
24 White Granite Cups and Saucers. 
24 White Granite Plates. 
24 White Granite Fruit Dishes. 
24 Rock-Red Bean Pots. 
12 Salt Shakers, No. 468. 
6 White Granite Plates, 6-inch. 
6 White Granite Plates, 8-inch. 
6 White Granite Soup Plates. 
6 Baccarat Tumblers. 

White Granite Water Pitcher No. 12. 

White Granite Tureen, P. G. 

White Granite 7-inch Baker. 

White Granite Sugar Bowl, No. 30. 

Oil Cruet, No. 666. 

Gravy Boat, P. G. 

Pickel Dish, P. G. 

Mustard Mug and Spoon. 

Teapot P. F. 

Soap Slab, W. G. 

Japanned Tray, 16 inch. 

White Granite Platter, 10-inch. 

White Granite Cream Jug. 

Glass Finger Bowl, No. 311. 

Equipment for Manual Training Centers. 

Used in the Elementary Schools of Kansas City, Mo. 

6 No. 25, 8-inch, Iron Handle, Stanley T. Bevels. 
1 set Russell Jennings Auger Bits, size 1-4 to 1 inch. 
1 1-8-inch, 114 A, Bit Stock Drill for wood. 
1 1-4-inch, 114 A, Bit Stock Drill for Wood. 



laa DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

1 3-8-inch, 114 A, Bit Stock Drill for Wood. 

1 1-2 inch, 114 A, Bit Stock Drill for Wood. 

1 No. 10 Rose Countersink. 

1 8-inch Sweep, No. 4308, Ratchet Brace. 

12 No. 600, 3-4-inch, Leather Tipped Handles, Firmer 

Socket Chisels. 
12 No. 600, 1-4-inch, Leather Tipped Handles, Firmer 

Socket Chisels. 
1 No. 600, 1-2 inch. Leather Tipped Handles, F-rmer 

Socket Chisels. 
1 No. 600, 3-8 inch. Leather Tipped Handles, Firmer 

Socket Chisels. 
1 No. 600, 1-inch, Leather Tipped Handles, Firmer 

socket Chisels. 
8 Pairs No. 809 Hand Screw Clamps. 

1 No. IW, Wentworth's Saw Clamp. 

2 No. 9 Clamp Irons, complete with 4-ft. wood bar. 
6 No. 3, 6-inch, Wing Dividers. 

4 4 1-2 inch, Slim Taper, Nicholson Saw Files. 
4 5 1-2-inch, Slim Taper, Nicholson Saw Files. 

1 10-inch Mill File. 

2 14inch Hf. Rd. Wood Files. 
2 14-inch Flat Wood Files. 

1 Trojan Emery Grinder, 6 inch Emery Wheel. 
12 No. 62, Stanley Marking Gauges. 
12 No. 12, Maydole Bell Claw Hammers. 

1 No. 121, Shingling Hatchet. 

1 No. 29, Riverside, 8 inch blade. Drawing Knife. 
24 No. 50, Henkcl's Chip Carving Knives. 

4 3inch face. Mortised Handled Hickory Mallets, 

1 No. 31, New Langdon Mitre Box, "Improved," 22 

inch Saw. 

2 2-32, cup points. Standard Nail Sets. 
2 No. 3, Zinc Oilers. 

24 No, 5, 14-inches long, 2-inch cutter, Baily Jack Plane. 
12 No- 2, 7 inches long, 1 5-8-inch cutter, Bailey 
Smoothing Plane. 



APPENDIX 139 

1 No, 30, 7-inch Pliers. 

12 18-inch, 10 point, Disston Cross Cut Saw, D. No, 8, 

2 No. 28, Rip Saws, D. No. 8. 

12 12.inch, 11 point, Disston Back Saws. 

2 No. 2, 12-inch blade, Disston Key-Hole Saws, De- 
tachable Blade. 

1 Morrill's Special Saw Set. 
12 6-inch Blade, Champion Screw Drivers. 

1 No. 4, Stearns Spoke Shave. 

1 No. 14 B, Framing Square, 
12 No. B-10 Steel Squares. 

1 No. 20, Rosewood Handle, Try Square, Stanley. 

2 No. 2, 8-inch, Iron Handle Try Square, Stanley. 
1 India Oil Stone, Mounted. 8x2xl-in. 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

After-Word. 

In the preparation of the preceding pages, the following 
authorities have been consulted: 

1. Physiology and Hygiene. Huxley and Youmana. 

2. Brief Course in Physiology. Cotton. 

4. Physiology and Hygiene. Brown. 
4- The Human Body. Martin. 

5. Advanced Physiology and Hygiene. Conn and 
Budington, 

6. Physiological Economy in Nutrition. Chittenden. 

7. Dusts and its Dangers. Prudden. 

8. Bacteria, Yeasts, and Moulds in the Home. Conn. 

9. Bacteria. Newman. 

10. Lectures on Bacteria. Du.Barg. 

11. Food and its Functions. Knight. 

12. Diet in Relation to Age and Activity. Thompson. 

13. Food and Principles of Dietetics. Hutchinson, 
14- Handbook on Sanitation. Price. 

15. Practical Hygiene. Currg. 

16. Practical Hygiene. Harrington. 

17. Handbook of Industrial Organic Chemistry. Sadder, 

18. Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning. Richards. 
and Elliott, 

19. Chemistry in Daily Life. Cohn, 

20. Chemistry in Plant and Animal Life. Snyder. 

21. Sanitary and Applied Chemistry. Bailey, 
Thanks are due "Knight's Food and Its Functions" and 

"Huxley and Youman's Physiology and Hygiene" for the 
physiological illustrations selected for this work. 

The Author. 



SYLLABUS IN SEWING 

PART VI. 

For Use of Teachers. 

Suggestions. 
Cleanliness: Pupils should wash their hands immedi- 
ately before sewing. The desks or tables should be free from 
dust; the work kept from contact with other objects in the 
room, and from unnecessary handling by others. No thread 
should be carried to the mouth. No goods not washable, 
should be used in school work. 

Position: When the work is light enough to permit 
its being held up near the face, the usual injunction, **Sit 
erect," may be (ollowed; the neck being inclined somewhat; 
but when the work is heavy, it must rest on the table or on 
the knee, and the injunction is fruitless; the pupil cannot 
"sit erect." The hands and arms should not be allowed to 
rest on the desk or table. 

Light: As the taking of fine stiches is more trying to 
the eyes than studying the common text, great care should be 
taken that the curtains are adjusted so as to admit the greatest 
amount of light without throwing the sunlight into the eyes 
of the pupils. The light should fall from the left or over the 
shoulders, rather than from the right or the front; both for 
the better view and for the protection of the eyes. When 
the pupils squint, or "knit" the forehead between the eyes, 
in sewing, they should discontinue the work until an oculist 
can be consulted. There is some defect of vision, Rooms 
that can not be well supplied with natural light, should not 
be used for sewing classes. 

Ventilation and Heat should be as carefully con- 
sidered as light. Only pure air is re-creative, "Oh, they 

141 



142 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

can sit there a little while!" should plead no excuse for main* 
tainin^ sewing classes in rooms not susceptible of proper 
heating and ventilation. 

Thimbles: Owing to the danger of piercing the skin 
of the finger, no pupil should be allowed to take one stitch 
without a thimble. For school work, the aluminum thimble 
is best; being cheap and non-corrosive. 

Class of Work: Pupils should be set to work on 
articles of practical value as soon as possible; first, from the 
view point of interest; second, from the point of utility. 
These girls are to become home-makers. They can not be 
overtrained in the subject in so short a time. 

Knots: "Tie a knot in the thread and you will not 
miss the first stitch." This is the tailor's motto, and one 
worthy of following. 

Pratice pieces" for exhibition, may be made without 
knots, but garments should be sewed to stay. 

Biting off the Thread injures the enamel of the 
tooth. 

Unfinished Work: Work not completed at the regu- 
lar time may be finished at home, or as "busy work" at 
school. 

Red Thread is not a necessity in the "practice work," 
but a convenience. It should be discarded with the begin- 
ning of the making of articles of use. 

The French Seam is better adapted to the sewing 
machine than to hand work. It should not be backstitched; 
as the material will be more or less drawn by it. 

Felled Seams should be used in making all under- 
garments instead of the French seam. 

Right to Left: All seams, fells, hems, and overcast- 
casting, should be sewed from right to left. 

Holding Work: There is no laudible reason for not 
pinning the work to the knee, or the waist, on occasions 
seeming to require it. 

Note I. The (*), used in this syllabus denotes that 
the material for the article or garment is to be furnished 



SEWING 143 

by the pupils. All other cloth for pratice is to be furnished 
by the Board. 

Note II. Each girl should provide herself with a 
neat work-box, containing a pair of five inch scissors, a thim- 
ble; and an emery cushion and pins. 

As necessity requires, a tape measure may be added to 
the contents of the work box, to be used in drafting. 

Note III. For the sake of uniformity, and to further 
the progress of the work, the Board furnishes all needles and 
thread, and bleached and unbleached muslin for "pratice 
pieces"; also cards, 4x4 inches for first lessons in darning, 
and stockinet for more advanced work. 

Note IV. Where the boys are sent to Manual Train- 
ing, the girls can do the sewing in the regular class room; 
perhaps more eflFectively than to go to another room. 

Note V. This syllabus is prepared for one lesson a 
week and each number indicates a week's work. 

SIXTH YEAR. 

1. (a) Enrollment, (b) Directions concerning 
the individual equipment and material to be furnished by 
the pupils. 

2. Drills: 

(a) Threading the needle. 

(b) Knotting the thread. 

(c) Use of the thimble. 

(d) Use of scissors. 

(e) Position in sewing. 

3. Basting: Uneven basting, only. 

Material: For each pupil, one piece unbleached 
muslin, cut (not torn) 6in.xl2in., folded in the middle 
crosswise. This piece to be used for all practice stitches in 
lessons third to eighth inclusive. Red cotton No. 50 and 
needles No. 8 for these four lessons, also. 

4. The Running Stitch. 

5. The Back Stitch. 

(a) The whole back-stitch. 



144 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

(b) The half back-stitch. 

(c) The back-and-fore stitch. 

Great care should be taken that the thread is not 
"drawn" in back-stitching. It is the prevailing weakness in 
the work of beginners. 

6. Overcasting: (the raw edge). 

7. Oversewing: (the seam). 

8. The Hem: 

(a) Turning the hem. 

(b) Basting the hem. 

(c) The hemming stitch. 

9. Hemming: Dish towels and dish cloths. 

(*) Material for dish cloths, soft, half-worn muslin or 
other cotton or linen goods; for dish towels, light-weight crash 
or other soft, loosly woven goods. These may be kept for 
the next year's cooking class. Thread and needles at dis- 
cretion of the teacher. 

10-11. Bags: Material, chambra gingham, 1-2 yard, 
solid colors. Each class selects its color, uniform (*)• Thread, 
the color of cloth. 

Form: Cloth folded crosswise in middle; hem one inch 
wide; seams oversewed; raw edges overcast. Draw-strings of 
color of cloth (optional). 

These bags may be kept for next year's cooking class. 

12-13. Gathering and Banding. The Doll's Apron: 

(a) Gathering. 

(b) Placing the gathers. 

(c) Backstitching the gathers to the band. 

(d) Felling down the edge of band. 

(e) Over sewing the edge of band. 
Material, checked gingham. 

Apron cut 4xl2-inchcs; the band 12 1-2 by 2 inches. 
WhitecottonNo. 40andNo. 60. Needles No. 7 and 
No. 9. 

14-15. Cutting and Making a Three-gored Apron: 

Material, checked gingham (*). 

Size, adapted to pupil by measurment. No ruffle or 



SEWING 145 

bib; seams overcast. In this and all lessons following, the 
thread and needles at the discretion of the teacher. 

16. Patching: 

The hemmed-on patch. 

Material, checked gingham; piece cut 6x9 inches (*). 

17. Darning: 

Material, cardboard cut 4x4 inches. Germantown 
wool. 

Darning needles adapted to wool. 

The pupils mark card at top and bottom, one half inch 
from edge, with pencil; for holes for the darning needle; 
then puncture the card through each dot, using a large pin or 
a darning needle. After the marking, the puncturing may 
be done at home. 

18. Darning: 

Material, stockinet; darning cotton. Pieces cut 4x4 
inches. 

The "cut," the "tear," the "hole." 

19-20. Button Holes: The square ended, tailored 
buttonhole. 

(a) Measuring and cutting the hole. 

(b) Barring. 

(c) Working the buttonhole. 
Material, bleached muslin. 

There is, probably, no special work in sewing more 
poorly taught and more poorly learned than the making of 
the buttonhole. Since the introduction of the "sewing ma< 
chine buttonhole," the art of making a smooth, firm, and 
serviceable buttonhole has been practically lost, except 
among tailors; while there is no one feature of the depart- 
ment of "finishing," in sewing, that tends more to the beauty 
and the comfort of a garment, than well-shaped and well- 
made button holes. 

21. The Linen Hem: On towels, table cloths, or 
napkins. 

Material linen or cotton crash for towels, table 
linen C). 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

22-26. Drafting, Cutting and Making Underskirt: 
Simple method of drafting. 

Material, bleached muslin. (*). Finished with 
plain hem. Seams back-and-fore stitched, overcast. 

27. Tucking. 

Material, unbleached muslin. Piece 6x6 inches; 4 
tucks, 1-4-in. wide. 

28-29. The Toy Pillow Case: 

Material, bleached muslin, (*) cut 10x9 1-4-in., made 
5x8 in. Seams over-sewed on right side. Raw edges over- 
cast. Hem one inch wide. 

30 32. The Toy Sheet: 

Material, bleached muslin (*), 14x19 in., made 
13x17 in. (One sheet). 

33-34. The Toy Bed Blanket: 

Material, white outing flannel (*). 

Blue Germantown wool. Blanket cut 13x18 in. Edges 
finished with a blanket stitch. 

35-36. The Toy Bed Comfort: 

Material, white cheese-cloth (*). 

Cotton batting, blue darning cotton. Size, 16x30 in. 

37. The Cradle Mattress: 

Material, striped ticking C). Cotton batting. 

38. The Toy Pillow Ticks: 

Material, striped ticking (*). Cotton batting. Size 
9 1-2x8 1-4 in. 

SEVENTH YEAR. 

1. Enrollment: Assignment of individual equip- 
ment. 

2. Rapid Review of all the stitches taught in the 
first quarter of the sixth year's work. 

Material, unbleached muslin, cut 6x12 in., folded in 
the middle crosswise. White thread. No. 50. Needles, 
sharps. No. 8. This one piece to suffice for the review. 

4-5-6. Apron: The straight apron, gathered into a 
band. Three tucks and a hem at the bottom. No other 
adornment. Size, adapted to pupiL 



SEWING 147 

Material: India Linon (*). Needles and thread 
adapted by the teacher. 

7-8. Handkerchief: Hemstitching. The untrimmed 
hemstitched handkerchief. 

Material, India Linon, (*). Size, 10 x 10 in. before 
hemming. 

Table Napkins: The linen hem. 

Material, Linen or mercerized cotton, (*). Size, de- 
cided by parents. Hem, 3-16 inch wide. 

Buttonholes: One review lesson. A square ended, 
barred, tailored buttonhole. 

Material, Bleached muslin, strips cut 12x3 inches, 
folded lengthwise in the middle, edges turned in and over- 
sewed. 

Buttonholes cut crosswise the piece, two inches apart. 
A grade contest for the best buttonholes. 

11. Patching: Matching stripes. The felled patch. 
Material, any kind of light weight striped goods, (*). 

All goods must be clean. Piece cut 6x6 inches. 

12. Darning: 

Material, Silk, cotton, linen, or woolen goods, (*). 
Thread, silk or darning cotton adapted to the cloth, also the 
needles. Darning of the cut, the tear, the worn hole. 

13. Darning: 

Material, Cotton or woolen stockings, (*). These 
must be freshly washed and scalded, if they hav3 been worn. 
Needles; etc., adapted to material. 

14. The Felled Seam; 

Material, bleached muslin. Piece cut 6x6 incheso 
Two seams. 

15. The French Seam: 

Material, as in previous lesson. Two seams. 
16-24. Drafting, Cutting, and Making a petticoat, 
using the "Gingles" method. (See "ad." in this book). 
Material, bleached muslin, (*). 

(a) Measurement. 

(b) Drafting to same measurement. 



148 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

(c) Drafting to individual measurements. 

(d) Cutting. 

(e) Fitting. 
(0 Making. 

Petticoat made with fourth-inch felled seams, back-and- 
fore stitched; finished with plain hem. 

25-28. Drafting, Cutting, and Making a seveni 
gored dress-skirt, using the same method. 

Material, calico or gingham, (*). Skirt finished with 
the French seam (not back-stitched) t and a plain hem. 

29-33. Drafting, Cutting, and Making shirt-waist 
(same method). 

Material, calico, gingham, or white goods, selected by 
the parents (*). Waists plainly finished. Barred button- 
holes. 

34. Drafting, Cutting, and Making drawers, by 
same method. Finished with felled seams and plain hem. 

Material, bleached muslin. 

EIGHTH YEAR. 

First Quarter. 

Note. No purely "practice work" is done in the first 
quarter. Garments are drafted, cut, and made. The 
drafting is done by the "Gingles Method." Books used by 
the teachers, only. All equipment and material is furnished 
by the pupils. The garments and all other articles made, 
arc the property of the makers. Exactness is the highest 
aim. 

Garments made in the first quarter: 

(a) Plain shirt-waist. 

(b) Trimmed corset cover. 
Material, selected by parents. 

Second Quarter. 

The Introduction of the Sewing Machine: One 
machine, only, for each school having a class which has com- 
pleted the two previous years' work. 



SEWING 149 

Drills: 

(a) In the general manipulation of the machine. 

(b) In the cleaning and oiling of the machine. 

(c) In basting for the machine. 

(d) In sewing straight seams. 

All cloth for practice furnished by the pupils. The 
care of the machine and the ability to run it are the chief 
aims of this term's work. 

Third Quarter. 
Articles Made for Home Use: 

(a) One tablecloth made by each pupiL 

(b) Two sheets made by each pupil. 

(c) Two pillow cases made by each pupil. 

(d) Six napkins made by each pupil. 
Cloth selected and furnished by pupils. 

Fourth Quarter. 
Drafting, Cutting, and Making: 

(a) A dressing sacque. 

(b) A plain night gown. 
Drafting by the "Ginglcs" method. 
Material, As in previous quarter. 
Final Grades. Reports. Inventories. 



INDEX 



DISCUSSIONS. 



Acid, Acetic, 41. 

Citric, 41. 

Lactic, 45, 64. 

Malic. 41. 

Oxalic, 41. 

Tannic, 41. 

Tartaric, 47. 
Air, Poisonous, 26. 

Pure, 26. 
Albumen, Physological Uses of, 27. 
28. 

Principal Sources of. 27, 28. 
Alkalies. Action of, 44, 45. 

Asphyxiation, 106. 
Bacteria, 23, 24, 35. 39. 45. 
Baking of Bread. Object of, 82. 
Bath Rooms, Care of, 56. 
Beef, Composition of very fat, 69. 

Composition of very Lean. 68. 

Different Cuts of, 67. 

Nutritive value of. 68. 

Use of Different Cuts of. 68. 

Use of Tender Cuts. of. 68. 

Use of Tough Cuts of. 68. 
Bicarbonite of Soda. 47. 
Bread, its Importance. 43. 
Breakfast. Planning, Cooking, and 

Serving, 66. 
Butter, 37. 
Caffeine, 36. 
Cake, Classification of, 78. 

General Rules for, 120. 
Calorie, Value of, 59. 
Candy Making. Terms Used in. 126. 
Canning, General Directions for, 

53, 85. 86. 87. 
Carbon. 89, 90. 103. 106. 
Carbo-hydrates, 27, 29. 
Casein. 27. 

Animal. 32. 

Vegetable, 33. 
Cellars, Care of, 57. 
Cereals, 60. 

General Rules for, 31. 

Time Table for, 31, 
Cheese, Skimmed Milk, Value of, 33. 

Full Cream, Value of, 33. 
Chemical Elements, of the body, 
89 90 91. 

Of the Solid Tissues, 90. 

Of the Fluids. 91. 
Circulation of the Blood. 104. 105. 
Classification of Food-Stuffs, 27. 



Cocoa, 37. 

Coffee, 36. 

Combustion, 103. 

Comparative Food Values of Rice 

and Potatoes, 58. 
Condiments, 48. 
Cream, 64. 

Cream of Tartar, 47. 
Digestion, and Digestibility of 
Foods, 94. 

Gastric. 96, 97, 98, 99. 

Intestinal. 98. 99. 100. 

Salivary. 94. 95, 99. 

Time Required for. 100, 101, 102. 
Digestive Ferments, 99. 

Fluids. 97. 99. 

Organs. 94. 98. 99. 

Processes, 94, 95. 96, 97, 98, 99. 
Dirt, 22. 
Dinner, Planning, Cooking, and 

Serving, 87. 
Dust, 22. 
Dust Plants, 22. 

Dumplings. General Rules, 118. 
Eggs, 28, 29, 51. 63. 
Equipment, Light Cooking. 135, 
136. 137. 

Manual Training, Boys', 137, 128, 
139. 
Fat, Clarified, 38. 
Fats and Oils, Animal, 27, 37, 38. 
Fish, Best Methods of Cooking. 73. 
Shell, 75. 

Test for Freshness, 72. 
Flavoring Extracts, 48. 
Flour, Bread, 46, 114. 

Pastry, 46, 114. 120. 
Food Principles, 27, 
Food-Stuffs, Fuel Values of, 93, 133, 
Fruits, Comparative Values of, 61. 
Fuel Values, 59. 
Fungi, 22. 
Gas, Carbonic Acid, 44, 103, 106. 

Hydrogen, 26, 89. 

Nitrogen, 26. 89. 103. 

Oxygen, 26. 89, 103, 104, 105. 106, 
Gelatin, 27. 
Glands, of the Mouth. 94, 95, 96. 

Of the Stomach, 96. 97, 98, 

Of the Liver, 95, 98, 
Gluten, 27, 31. 
Hermetical Sealing, 87. 



150 



INDEX 



151 



Housekeeping, Sanitary, 25. 

Care of Dish Towels and 
Cloths. 25. 

Care of Refrigerator, 25, 

Care of Sink, 25. 

Care of Garbage and Garbage 
can, 25. 

Care of Plumbing, 56. 
Invalid's Tray, 63. 
Jams, General Rule for, 132. 
Jars, Best for Canning, 39, 86. 

Sterilizing, 53. 86. 
Jellies, General Rule for, 84. 
Lard, 37. 
Leavening, 43. 

Experiments in, 44. 
Lactose, 64. 

Lima Beans as Muscle Builders, 32. 
Lunch, Planning, Cooking and 

Serving, 81. 
Macaroni, Composition of, 66. 
Marrow, 37. 
Measurements, Accuracy in, 26. 

Table of, 27. 
Menu, the, 92. 93. 
Microbes, 23. 
Mildew, 23. 
Milk, in General, 38, 45, 46. 

Composition of, 64. 

Modified, 64. 
Mineral Matters, (Salts,) 27, 40. 

In the Solid Tissues, 90. 

In the Fluids, 91. 
Moulds, 22, 23. 
Mould, Green, 22. 

Spores. 23. 
Muscle-Making Values of Common 

Food-Stnffs. 92. 
Myosin, 27. 

Nitrogenous Foods, 27. 
Oils, Vegetable, 11. 
Organic Ferments, 100. 
Oysters, 75. 
Pastry, Rules for, 114. 

Light, 117. 

Short, 114. 



Pastes, Flour, 66. 

Macaroni, 66. 

Spaghetti, 66. 

Vermacelli, 66. 
Plumbing, Care of, 56. 
Poultry, 76. 
Preserving. General Rules for, 84, 

85. 
Proteids, 27. 

Respiration, 103, 104, 105, 106. 
Rice, 60. 
Rice and Potatoes, Comparative 

Food Values of, 58. 
Rolled Oats, 28. 
Roasting Meat, 71, 
Rotting, 23. 

Scrubbing Boards and Tables, 25, 
Secretions, Daily Amounts by Di- 
gestive Organs, 95, 
Soup Stock, 50. 
Starch, 27,33, 57. 
Sugar, 27,34. 
Syllabus, in Cooking, 9-21. 

In Sewing, 141-149. 
Table Setting, General, 53, 54. 

Serving, 54. 
Tea, 36. 

Tests for Fresh Eggs, 30. 
Temperature of Living Rooms, 57. 

Of Sleeping Rooms, 57. 
Thiene, 36. 
Vegetables, 65. 

Green, 77, 78. 
Ventilation, 57, 107. 
"Water, Composition of, 26, 27, 35. 

Glass, 30 

"Hard" and "Soft," 56. 
Wheat, a Grain of, 43. 

Spring, 114. 

Winter, 114. 
Yeast, 23, 81, 82. 

Plants, 23. 

Fermentation, 23, 82. 



RECIPES. 



Baking Powder, 46, 
Baked Apples, 41, 

Bananas, 62. 

Macaroni, 66. 
Biscuits, Bak. Powder, 48, 108. 

Drop, 48. 

Sour Milk, 48. 
Boiled Macaroni, 66. 

Rice, 60. 

Turnips, 65. 
Bread, Beaten, 110. 

Boston Brown, No. 1, 109. 

Brown, No. 2, 109. 



Bread, Brown, No. 3, 109. 

Soft Graham, 109. 

White, (Quick Process), 83. 

White, (Slow Process), 83. 
Broth, Chicken, 51. 

Mutton, 113. 

Oyster, 112. 
Butter Making, 132. 
Cake, Angel, 121. 

Chartreuse 131. 

Cheap Sponge. 79. 

Coffee, 121, 

Dutch, Apple, 119, 



l52 



Index 



Cake. Plain. 79. 

Plain Molasses, 49. 

Short, 119. 

Sponge, 80. 
Candy, Chocolate Cream, 127, 

Cocoanut Drops, 127. 

Fondant, White, 34. 

Fudge, 126. 

Glace Nuts, 127. 

Molasses, 128. 

Peanut Brittle, 126. 

Penoche, 128. 
Chicken, Fried, 76. 

Jelly, 112. 

Panada, 111. 
Cheese. Sour Milk, 33. 

Straws, 117. 
Chow-Chow, 131. 
Clarified Fat, 38. 
Cocoa, a Beverage, 37. 
Coffee, a Beverage, 36. 

Drip, 110. 
Cookies, Chocolate, 122. 

Cocoanut, 122. 

Peanut, 122. 

Sugar, 49. 
Custard, Frozen. 113. 

Plain Cup, 51, 

Rennet. 64. 
Dessert, Rice, 60. 
Doughnuts, 80. 
Dressing. Baked Apple, 42 . 

Cooked Salad. 123. 

Eggs. 124. 

French. 40. 

Mayonaise, 78, 
Dumplings, for Stews, 118, 

Fruits, 118. 

Steamed, 119. 
Egg-Nog, Coffee, 111. 

Milk. 111. 
Eggs. Poached, 63. 

Soft Boiled, 31. 
Fish, Baked, 73, 

Balls. Cod, 74. 

Boiled, 73. 

Creamed, Cod, 74. 

Egg Sauce for, 74. 

Filling for. 73. 

Fried, 75. 

Hash, 74. 

Sauted, 73. 
Ginger Bread, Soft Molasses, 47. 
Ginger Snaps, 122. 
Gravy, Brown, 71. 

Giblet, 77. 

For Roast, 77. 
Gruel Farina. 114. 

Milk, 52. 
Ice Cream, 111. 

Lemon, 110. 
Icing, Boiled, 123. 



Icing, Uncooked. 123. 

Jams. General Rules for, 132. 

Large Fruit. 132. 

Small Fruit, 132. 
Jelly, Cranberry, 85. 

Lemon, 130. 
Lemonade, 41. 

Egg, 113. 

Meringue, 116. 
Milk, Albumenized. 63, 

Pateurized, 38. 

Sterilized. 63. 
Muffins. Corn Meal, 47. 

One-Egg. 47. 

Raised, 83. 
Pancakes. Bak. Powder, 45. 

Sour Milk. 46. 
Pastry, Light. 117. 

Short. 114. 
Peaches, Canned, 53. 

Sweet Pickled, 131. 
Pie. Apple, 116. 

Lemon, 115. 

Meat and Potato, 116. 

Mince, Plain, 117. 

Pot, 117. 

Pumpkin. 116. 
Popovers. 44. 
Porridge, Barley, 111. 

Corn Meal Milk, 111. 
Potatoes, Baked, 34. 

French Fried, 40. 

Mashed, 59. 

Sauted, 38. 

Scalloped, 65. 
Pudding. Apple. 80. 

Bread. 52. 

Cottage, 119. 

Crust, 133. 

Entire Wheat, 120. 

Indian Tapioca, 80. 

Lemon Jelly, 130. 

Rice, 52. 

Snow, 131. 

Suet, 120. 

Yankee Apple, 119. 
Roast Beef Gravy, 72. 

Chicken, 76. 

Meat, 71. 

Stuffing for, 77. 
Rolls, Parker House, 84, 
Rolled Oats. 28. 
Salad. Apple and Celery. 124. 

Beet. 125. 

Cabbage. 40. 

Cucumber and Tomato, 123. 

Egg. 125. 

Lettuce, No. 1, 124. 

Lettuce. No. 2, 124. 

Lobster. 124. 

Meat, 124. 

Potato, 123. 



4 



J 



Index 



158 



Salad. Sweet Potato and Bacon, 
125. 

Tomato. 78. 

Turnip. 125. 

Vegetable. 124. 
Sauce. Apple No. 1. 61. 

Apple No. 2. 62. 

Caramel. 51. 

Cream, 60. 

Egg. for Pish. 60. 

Fish, 74. 

Nutmeg, 132. 

Tomato, 66. 

Vanilla. 52. 

White, 65. 
Sherbet. Milk. 113. 

Pineapple, ill. 

Other Fruits, ill. 
Soup, Baked Bean, 129. 

Chicken, 129. 

Corn. 128. 

Cream of Green Peas, 129. 



Soup, Lima Beans, 42. 

Macaroni, 50. 

Mock Bisque. 128. 
Mutton, 130. 

Ox-Tail. 129. 

Potato, 42. 

Stock, 50. 

Tomato, 42. 
Steak, Pan Broiled, 71. 
Stew. Beef and Vegetable, 

Oyster, 76. 
Tea, a Beverage, 36. 

Beef, 112. 
Toast, Dry, 1 13. 

Egg, 31, 

Milk, 81. 

Tomato Milk, 81, 

Water. 113. 
Water, Apple. 62. 

Currant, 62. 

Grape , 



35 KINDS OF COOK BOOKS IN STOCK 

BOOKS ON ECONOMICS 

SCHOOL BOOKS SCHOOL REQUISITES 

BOOKS of EVERY KIND 
COMMERCIAL STATIONERY PRINTING 

FINE WRITING PAPERS 

Announcements and Visiting Cards Engraved 

TABLETS, NOTE BOOKS, Etc. 

WATERMAN IDEAL FOUNTAIN PENS. $2.50 



BRYANT and DOUGLAS BOOK and 
STATIONERY CO. 

922 GRAND A VENUE : : KANSAS CITY, MO. 
BOTH TELEPHONES 2091 MAIN 



Judged by the satisfaction given in comfortable wear and 

length of service, our own brand of Hosiery is 

very appropriately named 




The Hosiery that is the result of a careful study of 
the best mills in America, and the manufacturing meth- 
ods and products ef Europe. 

The Hosiery that is so thoroughly made in every 
detail to pass the rigid inspection it must endure. All 
wearing parts are strongly re-enforecd. 

The Hosiery that we feel is worthy of our broad 
guarantee of "Satisfaction in Every Pair."^ 

FOR MEN 
FOR WOMEN 
FOR CHILDREN 

Our Children's Thorowear Hose in the 25c. and 
35c. qualities are not excelled at the prices. 



A Definite Text i n Sewing and Drafting for 

Class Room Work 

The American System of Dress- 
making has been prepared by ex- 
perienced, practical dressmakers, 
working jointly with practical 
teachers, both in high school and 
college work. The system is be- 
ing recognized as the most com- 
prehensive and complete for class 
room work that has been pub- 
lished, and is fast being introduc- 
ed into high schools, academies 
and colleges offering courses in 
Domestic Science and Art. It is 
an independent proportion sys- 
tem, concise, thorough and scien- 
tific; containg over 400 pages, and 
200 explanatory illustrations. It 
is accompanied by a tailor's 
square and model drafts. 

The Washington City Librarian 
recently stated in a letter to us 
, that he had difficulty in finding 
' suitable text books on this par- 
' ticular subject. Later on, in ac- 
knowledging receipt of the 
"American System,*' he said: 

"This System is one which will 
be of great value to the Library, 
as it contains more information 
and much more detail in accessi- 
ble form than any which we have 
at present." 

Teachers of sewing are invited 
to write or call for special terms 
to schools and colleges introduc- 
ing the American System. 




SCHOOL FROCK 



AMERICAN COLLEGE 

o/DRESSMAKING 

1508-1530 Commerce Building 

KANSAS CITY, :: : MO, 



KANSAS CITY, MO., June 1, 1910. 

To the AMERICAN COLLEGE OF 
DRESSMAKING, 

Kansas City, Mo. 

Gentlemen: After having carefully investigat- 
ed the plan of your work, I have been particularly in- 
terested in the System of Drafting which you use and 
teach, not only in the class-rooms of the school, but 
by correspondence. 

Sending, as you do, to each correspondence stu- 
dent, a 446 page text of instructions and a scientific- 
ally gauged Square and large printed Model Pattern 
Drafts, accompanied by a voluminous set of test ques- 
tions designed to promote interest and further appli- 
cation, understanding, and thoroughness in the work 
of a series of graded lessons, the student a thousand 
miles away is equipped to take up the work and pur- 
sue it to a thorough and successful termination. 

On reviewing the remarkable results you have 
obtained, the question at once arises: "Why do not our 
institutions of higher learning include more of the in- 
dustrial side of education?" 

For all purposes of dressmaking and drafting in 
the high school, the college, the normal school, and 
the home, this System is both sufficiently simple and 
sufficiently comprehensive. 

I shall watch your results with great interest, and I 
wish them the highest success. 

Most truly yours, 

Gertrude T. Johnson, 

Supervisor Domestic Science ^ 
Elementary Schools^ 
Adv. Kansas Citv^ Mo, 



LESSONS IN GARMENT DRAFTING 



BY 

MRS. MAE MILBOURNE GINGLES, 
SAGINAW, MICHIGAN. 

A Text and Note Book of Straight Line Drafting for use 

in Schools and Colleges, Simple, Effective, 

and Inexpensive, 

Price of Book, 65 cents. Prepaid, 
Write for Further Information, 

PAGE 27, REDUCED. 

usually 7 inches. (The location of arm's eye curve de- 
pends upon this measure, hence it must be taken very 
carefully.). 
WIDTH OF BACK: Across the shoulders, just above 
point of shoulder blades. 

Front Draft. 




Draft a right angle 2 inches from left hand end of paper, 
using straight edge of paper for long line. Measure out 
on short line from angle 2 inches, and place dot 1. 

Out on short line from 1, SHOULDER measure, place 
dot 2. 

1 1-2 inch down from 2, place small cross. 

Connect 1 and cross with straight line. On this line 
measure SHOULDER length, and place dot .3, 



THIS IS OUR PERFECTION DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

TABLE. WITH OUR NEW CEMENT FIBRE 

TOP, including STOVES. MEAT BOARDS. 

BREAD BOARDS and all COMPLETE. 

Have You Heard of it? 

Weight 275 Pounds. Write us for Low Prices. 

The remarkable success of this Top is due to its non- 
absorbing qualities. Its elasticity approaching more nearly 
wood than any other material. They are AciD Heat and 
Moisture Proof. Guaranteed against any kmd ot Cracks, 
Shrinkage or other defects under the most trying conditions. 
The frame construction is such that it will last 40 or DU 
years, as well as the top. THIS CUT 

SHOWS 5-8 in. 

of composition 
metal and match- 
ed wood backing. 
The edges are 
bound with sub- 
stantial enameled 
metal strip. 

Samples of buff 
or gray composi- 
tion sent on re- 
quest, or the table 
complete, to prof- 
pective purchasers 
of equipment, on 

Showing the Substantial Construction of our 0^^ USUal COndl- 
Fihre Tops. tions. 

Any questions gladly answered. Don't fail to write for 
catalog. 

E. H. SHELDON & CO, 

May and Carroll Ave. CHICAGO, ILL. 





E, H. Sheldon & Co 



May and Carroll Ave. 



CHICAGO, ILL. 



km 3 i^K 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



h^T\ ^ 



1911 



