m 







^* 



iil/^ 



M 



C 



M 






ft 

It! 



^^j| 

ncw 




IXJ- 



- L f ^ 



GopyrightN 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



THE FLOWER CITY 
COOK BOOK 



THE FLOWER CITY 
COOK BOOK 

COMPILED BY 

MRS. HENRY LEITER 

AND 

MISS SARA VAN BERGH 



PUBLISHED UNDER THE AUSPICES OF 

THE SISTERHOOD 

AFFILIATED WITH 

CONGREGATION 

BERITH KODESH 



ROCHESTER, N. Y. 
1911 






Copyright, 1911 

BY 

Rebecca Leiter 

AND 

Sara Van Bergh 



Printers 
The Du Bois Press, Rochester, N. Y. 






jf 



'CI. A 21)2971 



PREFACE 

In presenting to the public "The Flower City- 
Cook Book," its compilers feel that they have col- 
lected together so large and varied a number of 
recjpes that the book will be found of great ser- 
vice to all. 

Every recjpe has been tried and tested and 
can be relied upon as one of the best of its kind ; 
and we have the certainty that once the book is 
launched, its merits will be sufficient recommenda- 
tion, and it will be a valued possession in the 
home of every good housewife. 

The Compilers. 



INTRODUCTION 

THE human body is formed of various tissues known as muscle, 
bone, nerves, blood, etc. Tissues are very complex materials and 
can be resolved into about twenty different chemical elements as 
oxygen, carbon, iron, lime, sulphur, etc. In the daily use of the body, 
parts of the tissues are worn out and require repairing in order to be able 
to do the work of the next day. The pumping of the heart, every breath, 
and each movement of the body uses up a measure of energy that can be 
accurately calculated. Continued breaking down of the tissues of the 
body, in order to create an adequate supply of energy, would be fatal, 
unless some mechanism were available to supply a new source of energy. 
The human body is kept at a constant temperature. To furnish adequate 
heat a sufficient amount of fuel must be secured. 

To meet the demands, as above indicated, eating is essential. It is 
necessary to eat to live, even though it may be a fact that much of living 
is for the sake of eating. 

What is a food ? 

A food is any animal, vegetable, or mineral matter that will supply 
the needs of the body. 

Food must furnish material for building up weakened tissues, or 
supply heat, or yield energy. The most healthful food is that which is 
best suited to the needs of the consumer. The cheapest food is the one 
affording the most nutriment for the least expenditure of money. It is 
a curious fact that the best foods are the most healthful and the cheapest. 

The amount of nourishment in any food is in no way related to the 
cost price. The same fruit has the same food value, though the price 
thereof may vary with the seasons. Purchasing foods for their palata- 
bility gives no suggestion as to the real benefit to be derived from them. 
Mushrooms, celery, lettuce are pleasing to the palate, though scarcely to 
be reckoned as necessary or economical foods. 

In order to secure the maximum food value from the foods that ap- 
peal to the developed sense of taste it is important that they be put into 
the condition that will allow them to be thoroughly digested and absorbed. 
To facilitate this, cooking is essential. Tough fibres of meat must be 
swollen, softened, separated that the digestive fluid may more readily 
attack them. Starch granules must be broken down that the true starch 
may be available to the saliva and the digestants in the intestines. To 
properly prepare foods is a fine art. 



Foods in general may be divided into three classes : The albumens, 
like the white of an egg; lean meat, cheese; the starches, sugars, and 
fats. The albumens are essentially the tissue builders, while the starches 
and fats supply the energy and heat. In a consideration of the amount of 
heat units that are liberated by the burning up of the foods within the 
body it is well to recall that the fatty foods yield twice the amount of heat 
that may be gotten from an equivalent portion of albumens or starches 
or sugars. Practically this means that in cold weather fatty foods are 
of greatest value for helping to maintain the body temperature at its 
proper point. 

To reconstruct the muscles, cartilage, bones, blood, skin, etc., the 
most efficient tissue builders are the splendid albumens that are to be 
found in milk, eggs, cheese, bread, all the cereals, peas, beans, corn, 
lentils, nuts, fish, and lean meats. 

For supplying heat and energy the following starches and sugars are 
especially valuable : All the cereals, sago, tapioca, samp, potatoes, fruits 
fresh and dried, sugar, honey, syrup, molasses, rice, and macaroni. 

The much needed benefits of the fats may be derived from the injec- 
tion of butter, olive oil, cream, bacon, fat meats or fat fish, nuts. 

One type of food has not been mentioned, though it forms an im- 
portant part of the daily dietary, especially among the children, and that 
is, the mineral matter that must be derived from the food. The numer- 
ous mineral substances that the body requires do not afford much energy 
to the body but they are most essential to the constant repair of the bones, 
teeth, nerves, and blood. 

Phosphorus is an important constituent of the human body and it may 
be supplied by milk, cream, eggs, especially the yolk, meat, dried peas, 
beans, oatmeal, parsnips, carrots, almonds, walnuts and peanuts. 

Iron is a very necessary part of the food in order to keep the blood 
from being impoverished. The foods particularly rich in iron are egg- 
yolk, meat, whole wheat, dried lima beans, peas and beans, string-beans, 
spinach, raisins, grapes, prunes and oatmeal. 

Lime is most needed for the bones and teeth. To secure this part of 
the repair materials, milk, oranges, carrots, turnips, spinach, fresh fruits 
and vegetables should be taken. 

In contemplating a dietary from the point of view of the greatest 
amount of nourishment to rebuild the body for the smallest outlay of 
money the following are the economical foods : Cornmeal, oatmeal, 
dried peas, lentils, beans, peanuts, white bread, beef round, milk, pota- 
toes, rice, butter, cabbage, prunes, bananas, macaroni and cheese. 

Ira S. Wile, M. D. 
New York City. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Chapter Page 

I Household Rules 1 

II Cereals 5 

III Fresh and Stewed Fruits 6 

IV Bread, Rolls, Toast, Etc 9 

V Biscuits and Breakfast Cakes 13 

VI Eggs and Omelets 17 

VII Beverages 22 

VIII Appetizers 27 

IX Soups with Meat Stock 33 

X Cream Soups 38 

XI Soup Garnishings 41 

XII Entrees and Luncheon Dishes 43 

XIII Fish 54 

XIV Meat 59 

XV Poultry 70 

XVI Dressing for Meat and Poultry 75 

XVII Vegetables 76 

XVIII Sauces for Fish, Meat and Vegetables .... 92 

XIX Salads and Salad Dressings 97 

XX Hot Puddings 105 

XXI Pudding Sauces 112 

XXII Cold Puddings 115 

XXIII Jellies, Bavarian Creams, Mousses, Etc 119 

XXIV Ice Creams, Ices and Other Frozen Desserts . . 124 
XXV Pastry, Pies, Charlottes, Etc 130 

XXVI Bundt, Kuchen, Etc 137 

XXVII Crullers, Fritters, Shortcakes, Etc 141 

XXVIII Tortes 144 

XXIX Cakes 147 

XXX Cake Frostings and Fillings 155 

XXXI Cookies, Macaroons, Kisses, Etc 158 

XXXII Candies, Etc 164 

XXXIII Canning 168 

XXXIV Jelly 170 

XXXV Preserves, Jams, Etc 172 

XXXVI Spiced and Pickled Fruits 177 

XXXVII Pickles and Catsups 179 

ix 



CHAPTER I. 

HOUSEHOLD RULES. 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

DRY MEASURE. 

2 pints 1 quart 

8 quarts 1 peck 

4 pecks 1 bushel 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons % cup or 1 wineglass 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

4 gills • • 1 pint or 2 cups 

2 cups 1 pint 

2 pints 1 quart 

4 quarts 1 gallon 

EQUIVALENT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

A dash of pepper y z teaspoon 

1 tablespoon butter 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons flour 1 ounce 

1 sq. Baker's Chocolate 1 ounce 

Butter size of an egg 2 ounces 

8 level tablespoons butter 1 cup 

8 tablespoons flour 1 cup 

1 cup butter (solidly packed) y 2 pound 

9 large eggs 1 pound 

4 cups of flour 1 pound 

1 quart sifted flour 1 pound 

2 cups finely chopped meat 1 pound 

16 ounces 1 pound 

1 pint granulated sugar 1 pound 

2 2 /z cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

2% cups brown sugar 1 pound 

Zy 2 cups confectioners' sugar 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

HOW TO BUILD A FIRE IN A COAL RANGE. 
Before starting to build a fire, close front and back dampers, and 
open oven-damper. Turn grate and ashes will fall into ash receiver. If 
these rules are not followed, ashes will fly all over the room. Turn grate 
back into place, remove covers over the fire-box, cover grate with pieces 
of paper and cover paper with small sticks of wood. The wood should 



2 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

reach the ends of fire box, and be so arranged that it will admit air. 
Then light paper and put on covers. After wood burns freely put on 
two shovelfuls coal, and open dampers. Now blacken stove. When the 
wood is thoroughly kindled, add more coal. After coal burns brightly, 
the oven damper should be closed. In a short time the front damper 
may be nearly closed, leaving enough space to admit sufficient oxygen to 
feed fire. 

When coal is well ignited, half close chimney-damper, unless the 
draft is very poor. Never allow the fire box to be more than three- 
fourths filled. If too full the draft is checked, a larger amount of fuel 
is consumed, and much heat is lost. This should be impressed on the 
mind of the cook. Ashes must be removed daily. 

If a fire is used constantly during the day, replenish coal frequently, 
but in small quantities. If for any length of time fire is not needed, open 
top slide in door of fire box, keeping dampers partly closed ; when again 
wanted for use- close top slide, open front damper (which is below the 
fire box) and with a poker rake out ashes from under fire, and wait until 
fire burns brightly before adding coal. To keep fire over night, shake 
grate a little, fill fire box with coal, open top slide and partly close 
dampers. 

The oven is heated by a circulation of hot air. This is accomplished 
by closing the oven-damper, which is situated near the oven. When this 
damper is left open the hot air rushes up the chimney. The damper near 
the chimney is called the chimney-damper. When open it gives a free 
outlet for the escape of smoke and gas. When partially closed, as is 
usually the case in most ranges, except when fire is started, it serves as 
a saver of heat. 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

To bake potatoes quickly, boil in salted water 10 minutes, then put 
them in the oven. Boiling water will heat them through, so they will 
cook in a short time. 

To keep lemons, cover with cold water, changing it every week. 
This keeps them ripe and juicy. 

To keep yolks of eggs three or four days, drop them in a cup of 
cold water and put in refrigerator. 

To cream butter and sugar easily when butter is hard, warm sugar 
slightly. This will soften butter without melting it, and will save time 
and labor. 

To scald milk, put in double boiler, having water boiling in under 
part ; cover and stand on top of range until it begins to steam. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 3 

Milk and butter should always be kept closely covered as they 
quickly absorb odors. 

Tumblers which have contained milk should be rinsed in cold water 
before washing in hot water. 

It is better to add flavoring extracts and wine to any mixture when 
cold ; if added while mixture is hot, the flavor passes off with the steam. 

When chopping suet sprinkle flour over it. This will prevent the 
pieces from adhering. 

Hardwood floors and furniture are improved by using a small 
quantity of kerosene oil in pail of water; apply with a woolen cloth 
rung out dry from water, and dry with a clean woolen cloth. 

Never put knives with ivory or wooden handles in water. 

Never put the cogs of a Dover Egg Beater in water. Wipe them 
with a damp cloth immediately after using. 

To remove iron rust, rub spot well with lemon juice, then cover 
with salt and let stand in sun for several hours. 

To prevent salt from lumping, add 1 teaspoonful cornstarch to three 
tablespoonfuls salt. 

To remove fruit stains, put stained surface over a bowl and pour 
boiling water over it. 

To remove claret wine stains, cover stained spot with salt, let 
stand for a few minutes and rinse in cold water. 

Salt thrown on a coal fire when broiling steak will prevent blazing 
from the dripping fat. 

To remove white spots from polished furniture, take y 2 ounce each 
of raw linseed oil and spirits of turpentine, mixed with 40 drops of 
spirits of ammonia. Apply with soft cloth. A gentle rubbing will 
remove stains in a few minutes, and gives a fine polish to any hard wood. 

To remove ink stains from linen, bathe stains freely with lemon 
juice, sprinkle with fine salt, and place in sun for a few hours. If nec- 
essary repeat process. 

Put finger of a glove on end of brass rod before slipping lace cur- 
tains on to it. The curtain will then go on easily without being torn. 

In winter clean windows with a sponge dipped in wood alcohol. 

To wash carafes, half fill carafe with hot soapsuds ; add 1 teaspoon- 
ful washing soda and some small pieces of newspaper. Let stand for 
y?, hour, stirring occasionally. Empty and rinse with hot water; wipe 
outside of carafe, and let stand, to dry the inside. 



4 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

If you wish to be a good manager, make a weekly list of menus. 
You will find it economical in time and money. 

Enameled sinks and bath tubs may be easily cleaned with a little 
gasoline or kerosene. 

Mildew stains are easily removed by rubbing with a soft cloth 
moistened with buttermilk. 

Silverware will not become tarnished if a piece of gum camphor is 
placed where silver is kept. 

If bureau drawers stick, rub with a little moist soap to make them 
slide more easily. 

Cold water and soap will remove grease or oil from cotton fabrics. 

Equal parts ammonia and turpentine will remove paint from cloth- 
ing. Saturate as often as necessary, then wash out in soapsuds. 

Chloride of lime is one of the best disinfectants for drains and 
closets. 

To clean carved furniture. Use a painter's brush with furniture 
polish. It will clean out every corner and crevice. 

Before sweeping old carpets, sprinkle with pieces of newspaper 
wrung out of water. After sweeping, rub carpet with cloth wrung out 
of a weak solution of ammonia water. 

To wash mirrors and windows, rub with chamois skin, wrung out of 
warm water; then polish with a piece of dry chamois skin. 

Rubbing a piece of moistened soap over edges of linen makes 
it easier to turn and hem them. This same method may be applied be- 
fore drawing threads for hemstitching. 

To clean piano keys, rub keys with diluted alcohol. Be careful not 
to touch the wood. 

To make a good silver polish, mix together 1 box Electro Silicon, 5^ 
pint water, y 2 pint ammonia and 1 pint wood alcohol. Pour in bottle 
and cork. 

A good remedy for burns is a mixture of lime water and linseed oil. 
A mixture of lard and lime is also good. 



CHAPTER II. 
CEREALS. 

Cereals should be bought in small quantities and kept in tightly 
covered glass jars. Cereals should always be cooked in double boiler. 
Boiling water and salt should always be added to Cereals, allowing 1 
teaspoonful salt to each cupful cereal. 

There are many good Cereal preparations on the market with direc- 
tions for cooking, but in most cases sufficient time for cooking is not 
allowed. Long cooking improves the flavor and makes the cereal more 

digestible. 

CORNSTARCH. 

Boil 2 cupfuls milk in double boiler; add y 2 teaspoonful salt and 2 
heaping tablespoonfuls cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk. Boil 
slowly, stirring constantly until thick. Serve with powdered sugar and 
cinnamon. 

FARINA. 

Boil in double boiler 1^2 cupfuls milk and y 2 cupful water; stir in 
gradually 2 heaping tablespoonfuls farina and y 2 teaspoonful salt. Stir 
until thick. Serve at once with cream and sugar. 

BOILED HOMINY. 
Put in double boiler 1 quart boiling water, 1 teaspoonful salt and 1 
cupful hominy ; boil steadily 1 hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

FRIED HOMINY. 
Pack cold hominy over night in a greased one pound baking powder 
box, which will prevent crust from forming. In the morning remove 
from box, cut in thin slices, dip in flour and fry in hot butter. Serve 
with maple syrup. 

FRIED OATMEAL. 
Prepare same as above. 

OATMEAL. 
Put in a double boiler 1 quart slightly salted boiling water, sprinkle 
in 24 cupful Scotch Oatmeal and stir until well mixed, then stand on back 
of range over night. In the morning boil steadily for 2 hours. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 
Boil 3 hours 1 cupful Scotch oatmeal in 2 quarts boiling water 
slightly salted. Strain and dilute with cream. Sweeten to taste. 

BOILED RICE. 
Wash 1 cupful rice and put in double boiler in 1 quart boiling 
water; add 1 scant tablespoonful salt and boil rapidly for 15 minutes; 
then drain off all the water from rice, cover tightly and steam for 20 
minutes. The water in lower part of boiler must boil continually. 



CHAPTER III. 

FRESH AND STEWED FRUITS. 

AMBROSIA. 
Peel and slice 6 oranges, fill glass dish with alternate' layers of slices 
of oranges, sugar and grated, fresh cocoanut, add a wineglassful Sherry 
wine, and let stand one hour in cold place. 

BAKED APPLES. 
Wash and core large sound apples, place in pan, fill each cavity with 
plenty of white sugar, sprinkle more sugar over apples, add a little cin- 
namon and a little chopped rind of lemon, pour in enough water to cover 
bottom of pan and bake until apples are tender, basting very often. If 
apples are tender before syrup is thick, remove them to a dish and cook 
syrup slowly on top of stove until it thickens, then pour over apples. 
Place some crabapple jelly on top of each apple and sprinkle with 
chopped almonds. 

JELLIED APPLES. 
Pare and core 8 red apples. Heat in porcelain kettle \y 2 cupfuls 
water, the juice of one orange, the grated rind of 1 lemon and \ l / 2 cup- 
fuls sugar. Add apples and cook slowly until very tender ; then remove 
carefully to a glass dish and fill cavities with red jelly. Let syrup sim- 
mer slowly until it thickens, add 1 tablespoonful Sherry wine, and pour 
over apples. 

HOW TO PREPARE CANTALOUPES AND MUSKMELONS 

FOR SERVING. 
Melons should be ripe and thoroughly chilled. Wipe melons, cut 
in halves, remove seeds and stringy portion. If melons are small, serve 
one-half as a portion and put crushed ice in cavity. If large cut in sec- 
tions. Serve with powdered sugar or salt. 

APPLE SAUCE. 
Pare 9 tart apples, core, slice and put in porcelain kettle with y^ 
cupful water; add juice and grated rind of y 2 lemon. Cook slowly, until 
apples are very soft, stirring occasionally. Mash through vegetable 
press, sweeten to taste, add a piece of butter size of a walnut and stir 
well. Serve either warm or cold. Grated nutmeg may be added if 
desired. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 
Pick over and wash 1 quart cranberries and put in saucepan with 1 
cupful water. Cook slowly until cranberries burst, then add two cupfuls 
granulated sugar. Cook 10 minutes longer, skim and cool. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 7 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 
Make same as Cranberry Sauce, (page 6) rub through sieve, turn 
into a mould and cool. 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD. 
Mix together y 2 cupful Sherry or Claret wine, x /z cupful sugar, a 
little lemon and orange juice. 

FRUIT SALAD WITH WINE DRESSING. 
Mix together some sliced oranges, sliced bananas, */£ pineapple, 
sliced, some Malaga grapes cut in halves and seeds removed, a few 
Maraschino cherries and some chopped nuts. Pour above dressing over 
Fruit, and stand on ice from one to two hours. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 
Cut grape fruit crosswise in halves, with a sharp, pointed knife. Cut 
out tough portion from center and remove seeds. Separate pulp from 
skin and put into a bowl. Allow 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar for 
every grape fruit ; add ^2 pineapple, chopped fine, some Malaga grapes, 
cut in halves and seeds removed, ]/ 2 contents of a small bottle Maraschino 
cherries, using also juice. Mix well, chill and serve either in grape fruit 
shells or in grape fruit glasses. Garnish with red or green cherries. 

GRAPE FRUIT OR ORANGES. NO. 1. 
Cut fruit in halves. With a sharp pointed knife loosen pulp from 
skin, remove seeds and tough part which divides fruit into sections. 
Pour in Sherry wine to moisten and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 
Garnish with Maraschino cherries or Malaga grapes. 

GRAPE FRUIT OR ORANGES. NO. 2. 
Cut fruit in halves, remove pulp and juice, add a little sugar, some 
chopped pineapple, and some Maraschino cherries with some of the 
liquor. Serve cold in thin glasses, surrounded with crushed ice, or in 
fruit shells. 

GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Stem and pick over 1 quart gooseberries, then follow recipe for 
Cranberry Sauce. (Page 6). 

BAKED PEARS. 

Wipe and core large pears and fill with butter and sugar. Put in 
baking dish, sprinkle with sugar, add a few slices of lemon, and pour 
around them 1 cupful boiling water. Cover and cook slowly until pears 
are almost tender ; then pour a cupful Claret wine over them. Bake until 
tender, basting occasionally. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Pare, remove eyes, and with a silver fork pick pineapple in small 
pieces ; or cut pineapple lengthwise in four parts. Remove core and cut 
in thin slices. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve very cold. 

STEWED PRUNES. 
Wash prunes thoroughly, cover with cold water and soak over 
night; then cook in same water until soft. Add ^ lemon sliced thin. 



8 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

When nearly done add sugar to sweeten. Pour into a glass dish and 
serve cold. 

RHUBARB SAUCE. 
Wash young tender rhubarb and cut in one inch pieces. Allow one 
pound sugar to each pound of fruit. Cover rhubarb with sugar, stand on 
back of range until sugar melts, then cook slowly until soft. If necessary 
add enough water to prevent rhubarb from burning. 

HOW TO SERVE STRAWBERRIES. 

1. Place strawberries in colander and pour cold water over them. 
Drain thoroughly, hull and put in glass dish. Serve with powdered 
sugar and cream. 

2. Pick over large fine strawberries, put in colander, pour cold water 
over them and drain thoroughly. Place some grape or rose geranium 
leaves on plates, arrange berries on leaves and put a spoonful powdered 
sugar on each plate. Berries served in this way should not be hulled. 

WATERMELON. 
A watermelon should be ripe and thoroughly chilled before serving. 
Cut melon in halves, cut a thin slice from each end so the halves will 
stand firmly on platter. With a tablespoon scoop out pulp in egg-shaped 
pieces ; or melon may be cut in sections. 

ICED WATERMELON BALLS. 
Cut a ripe watermelon in halves and remove seeds. With a potato 
cutter scoop out melon, sweeten to taste, flavor with Sherry wine and 
serve in individual glasses. 



CHAPTER IV. 

BREAD, ROLLS, TOAST, ETC. 

BREAD— POINTS TO BE REMEMBERED. 
In making bread always use the best flour. The yeast cake must be 
good and fresh. Dough takes longer time to rise in cold weather than 
in warm. The excellency of bread depends greatly upon the thorough- 
ness of kneading, as the longer dough is kneaded the whiter and finer 
will be the bread. The flour should be warmed before using. It is better 
to make loaves small so they will bake quickly, as bread requires a quick 
oven. When baked remove loaves from pan immediately. If a hard 
crust is desired do not cover bread ; if a soft crust, cover with a towel 
until cool. 

BEATEN BISCUITS. 

Scald one pint milk, butter size of an egg, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 
1 teaspoonful salt. Cool, add y 2 yeast cake dissolved in % cupful luke- 
warm water. Sift two quarts flour into bowl, make a hole in center, 
pour in milk and let rise until light. Stir until smooth and light, and 
then remove to floured board and knead thoroughly 15 minutes or 
longer (the longer the better) ; then pound well with rolling pin until 
dough blisters. Return to bowl, cover and put in warm place until very 
light. Roll out on slightly floured board to 34 inch thickness, cut with 
round cutter, brush melted butter over top, fold one half over the other 
and press edges together, place in greased pan one inch apart (so that 
there will be room for biscuits to rise) cover and put in warm place for 
y 2 hour or until light; then bake in quick oven 15 minutes. If less flour 
will answer, do not use the amount given above, as different brands 
of flour require more or less wetting. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mix and sift 1 cupful rye flour, 1 cupful white flour, 2 cupfuls 
Indian meal and one teaspoonful salt. Add 24 cupful molasses, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 2 cupfuls sour milk and 1 cupful water, or 2^4 cupfuls 
sweet milk. (If sweet milk is used, substitute baking powder for soda). 
Mix well, turn into well-buttered mould, cover and steam 4 hours. 
Remove from mould and bake 20 minutes. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

Scald 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoonful salt and 3 level tablespoonfuls 
sugar. When lukewarm add 1 yeast cake dissolved in a little warm 



10 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

water and 1 quart coarse entire wheat flour, or a little more if necessary. 
Beat well, cover and let rise until it doubles its bulk, beat again and half 
fill greased bread pans ; let rise to almost double its bulk and bake. 

GLUTEN BREAD. 
Less yeast is required than with starch flour, and less time in the 
raising process. Take one quart of sweet milk or y 2 milk and water, 
one heaping teaspoonful of good butter, one-half cake of any fresh dry 
hop yeast, or one-fifth of a cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in a little 
water ; add two eggs well beaten. St'ir in gluten flour till a soft dough is 
formed — about the consistency of baking powder biscuit. Put in pans to 
raise, and when light bake in hot oven. The above will make two loaves 
of bread. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 
Set sponge at night as in recipe for Milk Bread. Next morning add 
3 tablespoonfuls molasses and sufficient sifted Graham flour to make a 
soft dough. Turn on to board, work well with the hands, then form into 
loaves. Put into greased pans, let rise, and when light bake one hour 
in moderate oven. 

MILK BREAD. 
Put 1 tablespoonful butter and \y 2 teaspoonfuls salt in bread pan 
and pour in 1 pint scalded milk. When lukewarm add y 2 dissolved yeast 
cake, and sufficient sifted flour to make a thick batter. Cover and stand 
in warm place over night. Next morning mix in enough sifted flour to 
make a stiff dough, turn on to floured board, knead until dough is 
smooth, forms bubbles, and does not stick to hands or board. Put back 
in pan, cover and stand in warm place to rise again, then again turn on 
to board ; shape in loaves large enough to half fill greased tins, let rise 
again and bake in hot oven. If sponge is set in the morning use 1 
yeast cake. 

POTATO WATER BREAD. 
Make same as Milk Bread, using instead of milk the water in which 
pared potatoes have been boiled. 

RYE BREAD. 
Mix 4 quarts sifted flour (y 3 rye and y white). Put 3 quarts in 
bread pan, make deep hole in center and add y tablespoonful salt, 1 
tablespoonful caraway seed, 1 grated potato, (boiled or raw), 1 quart 
lukewarm water and y yeast cake dissolved in y cupful lukewarm 
water. Stir with a spoon until dough is stiff enough to knead, and 
knead until balance of flour is used, and dough comes from hands with- 
out sticking — but do not get dough too stiff. Cover and stand in warm 
place to rise over night. Next morning knead again, form into 2 loaves, 
put in greased pans, let rise again and when light bake in moderate oven. 

BREAD STICKS. 
Take small pieces of raised bread dough and first shape as small 
biscuits, then roll with hands on board (without flour) until about ^ 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 11 

inch thick and 8 inches long. Place in pans and bake first in hot oven, 
then reduce heat, that sticks may become crisp and brown. 

POPPY SEED STICKS. 
Follow recipe for Bread Sticks, (page 10) brush top with beaten 
yolk of egg and sprinkle with poppy seed. 

CRUMPETS. 
Scald 1 pint milk, when lukewarm, add about 3 cupfuls flour. Beat 
until smooth, then add 1 teaspoonful salt, a scant Y-z cupful melted 
butter and ^ yeast cake (dissolved). Beat well, cover and put aside 
in a warm place until very light. Place greased muffin rings on hot 
greased griddle, half-fill them with batter, and bake until brown; then 
turn and brown other side. When ready to serve, toast on both sides, 
butter, and serve immediately on a hot plate. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS. 
Scald 1 pint milk, add butter size of a small egg; when lukewarm 
add % yeast cake (dissolved), 1 teaspoonful salt and 3 cupfuls flour. 
Beat steadily 5 minutes then cover and put in warm place to rise. When 
light add sufficient flour to make soft dough and work lightly with the 
hands into flat cakes. Place well-greased muffin rings on a pan, set 
cakes in to rise again. W T hen light remove carefully to hot, well-buttered 
spider and fry light brown on both sides. When done pull apart to 
butter as cutting them with a knife makes them heavy. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 
Scald one pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, y> 
cupful butter. When lukewarm add a yeast cake dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water, and 3 cupfuls sifted flour. Beat well together, cover 
and put in warm place to rise. When light, add 2 well beaten eggs and 
sufficient flour to knead. Knead about 15 minutes, cover and put in 
warm place to rise again. Form into balls about the size of an egg, 
then roll balls between the hands to make rolls the length of a finger, 
place close together in well-buttered tins, brush top with yolk of egg 
beaten slightly and mixed with a little milk or water ; again let rise and 
when light bake in quick oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 
Dissolve y 2 yeast cake in % cupful lukewarm water ; add l /> table- 
spoonful sugar, 1 pint lukewarm milk, white of one egg, beaten stiff, 
7 cupfuls flour and y 2 tablespoonful salt. Work together well and 
let rise until it has doubled in bulk. Work down and let rise again. 
Do this 4 times. Then roll out to about double the thick- 
ness of a cooky and cut with round cutter. Brush top with butter and 
fold. Let rise again and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. It may 
be found necessary to use a little more or less flour, as different brands 
require more or less wetting. 



12 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

BUTTERED TOAST. 
Cut stale bread in J4 inch slices, dry in oven, then put on wire 
toaster, lock toaster, and place over clear fire, but not too close to coals. 
Keep turning toaster until slices are a golden brown ; or light gas oven, 
place bread on broiler or in pan one inch from gas in broiling oven. 
Brown slices on both sides. Spread thickly with butter, put in oven 
about 2 minutes and serve in covered dish. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Toast and butter as many slices of bread as required; put on plat- 
ter in oven while preparing sauce. 

Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, stir until 
smooth, then pour in 1 cupful hot milk, and 1 cupful hot cream. Stir 
until mixture thickens. Season with salt and paprika; pour over slices 
of toast and serve hot. 

FRENCH TOAST. 
Cut stale bread in pieces 4 inches long and \y 2 inches wide, or in 
thin slices. Beat 2 eggs, add % cupful milk, *4 teaspoonful vanilla 
and a pinch of salt ; dip bread in mixture, then in fine bread crumbs and 
fry in hot fat. Sprinkle with sugar, and a little cinnamon. 

TOAST POINTS. 
Cut bread into triangles and toast. Toast Points are used for gar- 
nishing. 

INDIVIDUAL TWISTS. 
Prepare same as Milk and Water Twist, but cut strands much thin- 
ner. Make into long narrow braid, and cut in finger lengths. Brush first 
with melted butter, then with beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle thickly with 
poppy seed, and when light, bake in quick oven. 

MILK AND WATER TWIST. 
Sift two quarts flour three times into a warm bowl or bread pan. 
Heat 1 pint milk mixed with 1 pint water ; add 1 tablespoonf ul butter, 1 
tablespoonful lard, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. When 
lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake. Make hole in center of flour, pour 
in milk and stir until batter is smooth and about the consistency of 
griddle cakes. Let stand until light, then sift into it 1 quart flour. 
Knead in bowl until stiff, then turn on floured board and knead until 
dough is smooth and elastic and does not stick to the hands or board. 
Cover and put in warm place to rise. Grease instead of flouring board, 
and roll out lengthwise sufficient dough for 1 loaf, cut into three strands, 
within an inch of end, braid, place in greased tin, brush with beaten yolk 
of egg mixed with a little milk, sprinkle well with poppy seed and when 
light bake in quick oven. 



CHAPTER V. 

BISCUITS AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 
Sift one pint flour, y 2 teaspoonful salt and 3 heaping teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Rub lightly into flour 1 tablespoonful butter and one 
tablespoonful lard or 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add gradually about y 2 
cupful milk or sufficient to form a soft dough, using a knife in mixing. 
In order to have biscuits a success, they should be handled as little as 
possible. Roll on floured board to T / 2 inch thickness, cut with biscuit 
cutter and bake about 20 minutes in quick oven. 

CHEESE BISCUITS. 
Mix and sift 2 cupfuls flour and 2 full teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der; add 1 cupful grated cheese, the beaten yolk of one egg, and y 2 
cupful cream. Mix well together, then add the stiffly beaten white of 
egg. Form into small biscuits and bake in hot oven. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Soak until soft 2 cupfuls fine bread crumbs in 2]/ 2 cupfuls hot 
milk. Beat until smooth. Add 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 2 well- 
beaten yolks of eggs. Mix, sift and add 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful salt and sufficient flour to make a thin batter — about y 2 
cupful; — beat again, then stir in carefully the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on hot greased griddle and brown on both 
sides. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mix and sift 1 cupful flour, y 2 cupful corn meal, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, y 2 teaspoonful salt, add two scant cupfuls sour milk, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. Beat until very light, then 
add 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little water. Pour by spoonfuls 
on hot greased griddle and brown on both sides. Sweet milk may be 
used instead of sour milk, in that case use 2 large teaspoonfuls baking 
powder instead of soda. Serve with butter and maple syrup. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Beat to a cream, yolks of 2 eggs and 1 tablespoonful butter ; add 1 
cupful sweet milk, \]/ 2 cupfuls flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder and y 2 teaspoonful salt. Beat vigorously a few minutes, then 
add the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs. Stir and bake quickly on hot 
greased griddle. 

OLD-FASHIONED BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Sift into a small crock 3 even cupfuls buckwheat flour, 1 cupful 
wheat flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, add 1 cupful lukewarm milk and y 2 
yeast cake dissolved in 1 pint lukewarm water. Beat batter until 
smooth ; cover and keep in warm place over night. Next morning stir 



14 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

well, add 1 tablespoonful molasses, a scant 34 teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in % cupful warm water. Beat thoroughly, drop by spoonfuls 
on hot well-greased griddle and brown on both sides. Save enough 
batter each time to raise another mixing, instead of using yeast cake. 
(It will require y 2 cupful batter). 

GRAHAM GEMS. NO. 1. 
Mix and sift \ l / 2 cupfuls flour, iy cupfuls Graham flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, and 1 teaspoonful soda. Beat 2 
eggs until light, add \y 2 cupfuls sour milk and 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter or lard ; add gradually to the flour, mix well and bake 20 minutes 
in hot buttered gem pans in quick oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS. NO. 2. 
Make same as Graham Gems No. 1, substituting sweet milk for 
sour milk and 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder for soda. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs until light ; add 1 cupful warm boiled rice ; 
one tablespoonful melted butter, % cupful milk. Mix and sift 1 cupful 
flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder and y 2 teaspoonful salt, and add to 
rice. Mix well, then fold in the 3 whites of eggs beaten very stiff. 
Bake in small cakes, on a hot greased griddle. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES. 
To one quart sour milk add as much sifted flour as is needed to 
thicken, so that it will run from spoon ; add 2 well-beaten eggs, a table- 
spoonful melted butter, a teaspoonful salt and lastly a level teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in a little milk or cold water. Pour by spoonfuls on hot 
greased griddle and brown on both sides. 

GERMAN PANCAKES NO. 1. 

Mix and sift into a bowl \y 2 cupfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
1 teaspoonful salt ; add slowly 2 cupfuls milk and mix until smooth ; 
then add one by one 3 eggs. Mix well. Heat in spider 2 heaping 
tablespoonfuls fat and butter mixed, pour in enough batter to cover 
bottom of spider, and brown on both sides. As cakes are baked, place 
one on top of the other on hot plates, sprinkle each with sugar and dot 
with butter. 

GERMAN PANCAKES NO. 2. 

Beat yolks of 6 eggs until light, add l / 2 cupful milk and l / 2 cupful 
cream, a little salt and 1 cupful sifted flour. Mix well, then add the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls in plenty of hot but- 
ter and fat mixed, and bake a light brown. Sprinkle with sugar. 

GERMAN PANCAKES NO. 3. 
Beat 4 eggs until very light, add 24 cupful sifted flour, a pinch 
of salt and 24 cupful milk or cream. Beat well. Heat 2 heaping table- 
spoonfuls butter in a hot iron spider; pour in batter, bake on top of 
stove a few minutes, then finish baking in hot oven. Slide pancake 
carefully to a hot plate, sprinkle with sugar and serve with lemon. The 
above is sufficient for 2 people. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 15 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

Wash, peel and grate 6 medium-sized raw potatoes ; add 3 well 
beaten eggs, j4 cupful milk, \ l / 2 tablespoonfuls flour, y 2 teaspoonful 
baking powder, and a little salt. Drop by spoonfuls on hot greased 
spider, and brown on both sides. Serve at once. 

MUFFINS OR GEMS. 

Sift 1 teaspoonful baking powder and a little salt with 1 pint of 
flour. Beat separately whites and yolks of 2 eggs ; add to yolks one 
teaspoonful milk or cream, 1 tablespoonful butter, (melted) the flour 
and whites of eggs. Mix together, beat well, and bake immediately 
in greased gem pans. When done, remove at once from pans and serve 
immediately. The self-raising flour is very good for making muffins; 
if used, the baking powder should be omitted. 

SWEET MUFFINS. 

Cream until light, 4 tablespoonfuls butter and l / 2 cupful sugar, add 
the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cupful milk, 3 cupfuls sifted flour 
mixed with two teaspoonfuls baking powder and y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
Mix well, then add stiffly beaten whites ; put in hot buttered gem pans 
and bake 20 minutes in hot oven. 

POP-OVERS. 

Sift 2 cupfuls flour, and y teaspoonful salt; add gradually 2 cup- 
fuls milk. Stir until batter is very smooth ; then add 3 well beaten eggs 
and beat with a Dover egg-beater until very light. Have iron gem pans 
greased and very hot ; put in l / 2 teaspoonful butter, half fill with batter, 
and bake about 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

SCONES. 

Mix together and sift 2 cupfuls flour, 4 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, y 2 teaspoonful salt. Rub in lightly 4 table- 
spoonfuls butter ; add two well beaten eggs, and y$ cupful cream. Roll 
on floured board to £4 inch in thickness, cut in squares, brush with 
white of egg, sprinkle with sugar and bake in hot oven 20 minutes. 

WAFFLES. 

Six eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls butter; 6 tablespoonfuls sour cream; 6 
tablespoonfuls flour. Beat whites until stiff. Cream butter; then put 
in a bowl first 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 yolk of egg, 1 tablespoonful 
flour, 1 tablespoonful sour cream, 1 tablespoonful stiffly beaten white 
of egg; stir vigorously. Keep adding alternately, (while beating), a 
tablespoonful of each ingredient until all are thoroughly mixed to- 
gether; add a little salt, some grated rind of lemon, a few almonds, 
chopped very fine. Bake in hot well-greased waffle irons. Place on hot 
platter and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Do not pile waffles on 
top of one another as it makes them less crisp. 



16 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

GERMAN WAFFLES. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, then slowly 
the yolk of 1 egg and a little flour, beating well. Continue adding yolks 
of eggs and flour until 6 yolks and 1 cupful flour have been used ; then 
add Yz pint whipped cream and 5 whites beaten stiff. Flavor with 
lemon or nutmeg. Pour by tablespoonfuls in hot greased waffle iron, 
and bake until brown. Sprinkle with sugar and serve very hot. 

QUICK WAFFLES. 
Beat well yolks of 4 eggs ; add 1 pint sweet cream or milk. Mix, 
sift and add 3 cupfuls flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, Yz teaspoonful salt. Mix thoroughly, then add the stiff- 
ly beaten whites of 4 eggs. Season with a little grated lemon peel. 
Thoroughly heat waffle iron on both sides, grease well, fill each com- 
partment, close iron, turn it, and bake waffles brown. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon, or serve with maple syrup. 



CHAPTER VI. 

EGGS AND OMELETS. 

To ascertain if eggs are fresh, put them in a basin of water. The 
fresh ones will sink to the bottom, the stale ones will always rise to the 
surface. Strictly fresh eggs should always be used for cooking, if ob- 
tainable. It is much more economical in the end, as one can never be 
sure of success if stale eggs are used. 

A pound of eggs (nine) is equivalent in nutritive value to one 
pound of meat. 

1. To preserve eggs, pack in sawdust, small end down. 

2. Pack eggs in a stone jar with small end down; make lime water 
by pouring 1 gallon boiling water over 1 pound lime; when cold and 
settled, pour carefully over eggs. Keep in a cool dark place. 

CREAMED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Carefully remove yolks from 8 "hard-boiled" eggs ; cut whites, 
and 8 large mushrooms in small pieces. Make a rich Cream Sauce ; 
season with paprika, salt and a little mace. Add whites and mush- 
rooms, heat to boiling point, then add whole yolks, and when heated 
serve on hot buttered toast. 

CREAMED EGGS. 
Prepare same as above, omitting mushrooms. 

DEVILED EGGS. NO. 1. 
Boil eggs until hard. Shell and cut in halves, lengthwise. Remove 
yolks, mash smooth and season with paprika, salt and a little dry mus- 
tard (if desired). Moisten with a little melted butter and cream. Re- 
fill whites and serve cold. 

DEVILED EGGS. NO. 2. 
Cut four "hard-boiled" eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove yolks 
without breaking the whites. Mix yolks with a teaspoonful caviare 
and a little cayenne pepper, and refill whites. Cut a small piece from 
bottom of eggs to make them stand. Garnish with cress and lettuce. 

DROPPED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 
Heat a little butter in baking dish or in individual bakers. Care- 
fully drop in eggs, cover with Cream Sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
salt and a little paprika, and put in oven until eggs are set. 

EGGS A LA MARTIN. 
Slice thin 8 "hard-boiled" eggs. Cut in small pieces about y 2 
pound cheese. Sprinkle a layer of eggs in a well buttered baking dish ; 
dot with bits of butter ; season with paprika and salt ; then add a layer 



18 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

of cheese. Repeat until dish is full, having top layer cheese. Pour over 
1 cupful cream, sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and brown lightly 
in oven. 

EGGS A LA MODE. 
Fry round slices of bread in butter or use buttered toast. Poach 
as many eggs as required and arrange on toast. Make Cream Sauce, 
stir in yolk of 1 egg, pour Sauce over eggs, sprinkle with some finely 
chopped tongue or ham and garnish with parsley. 

EGGS AND RED PEPPERS WITH BROWN SAUCE. 
Carefully remove insides from whole peppers. Butter timbale 
moulds and put a red pepper in each. (If peppers are too large, cut to 
fit moulds). Then drop one raw egg in each pepper. Place moulds in 
pan of hot water, and steam until eggs are almost hard. Saute large 
mushrooms, or sweetbreads, and arrange on platter, place peppers 
around them and pour over all a Brown Sauce with truffles in it. 

EGGS IN RAMEKINS. 
Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour; stir until 
smooth. Add Yz cupful cream, and stir until thick. Add 4 "hard-boiled" 
eggs, chopped fine. Season with salt and paprika. Put in buttered 
ramekins, cover with a thick layer of grated cheese, sprinkle with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until brown in quick oven. 

EGG TIMBALES NO. 1. 
Break eggs into timbale moulds, season with pepper and salt and 
put moulds in pan of hot water in oven, until eggs are set. Make Cream 
Sauce, add to it either caviare or chopped mushrooms. Arrange eggs 
on buttered toast and pour Sauce over them. 

EGG TIMBALES NO. 2. 
Beat until light 6 eggs, then add 1 cupful milk in which a pinch 
of baking soda has been dissolved. Stir in % cupful grated American 
cheese. Season with salt and red pepper. Butter custard or timbale 
moulds, fill with mixture, put moulds in pan of boiling water on back of 
stove and cook until eggs are set ; then remove from moulds to hot 
platter and pour over them hot Tomato Sauce. Garnish with cress or 
parsley and serve at once. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
Boil 15 minutes two cupfuls canned tomatoes with one bay leaf, one 
slice of onion, one sprig parsley and 1 tablespoonful sugar. Strain 
through sieve. Heat 1 tablespoonful butter; add one large tablespoon- 
ful flour. Stir until smooth and season with salt and pepper. Add 
gradually the tomatoes and stir constantly until thick. 

EGGS WITH SARDINES. 
Skin and flake one box of sardines. Season with juice of l / 2 lemon 
and a little paprika. Heat in pan 2 tablespoonfuls butter, put in sardines. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 19 

When thoroughly heated, add 5 eggs well-beaten, and seasoned with 
salt. Stir constantly until eggs are set. Serve on buttered toast. 

EGGS WITH SPANISH PEPPERS. 
Arrange crisp leaves of lettuce on plates. Drain Spanish peppers 
from oil and place on leaves. Remove shells from as many "hard- 
boiled" eggs as required. Cut a small piece from one end of each egg 
and remove yolk. Cut each white lengthwise into strips, half way, so as 
to resemble a lily. Mash yolks, mix with Mayonnaise Dressing, refill 
eggs and arrange on peppers. Serve with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

FRIED EGGS. 
Heat one tablespoonful butter in hot frying-pan. Break eggs one 
at a time carefully into a saucer, slip into the pan and fry until yolks are 
set and eggs slightly browned on bottom. 

FRIED EGGS AND HAM. 
Put thin slices of ham in hot frying pan and fry over a quick fire 
until the fat of ham is brown, then remove to hot platter. Fry some 
eggs in the hot fat and place an egg on each slice of ham. 

" HARD-BOILED " EGGS. 
Drop eggs carefully in boiling water. Remove kettle to back of 
range and let simmer 40 minutes, or place kettle on front of range, 
and boil eggs ten minutes. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Half fill pan with salted boiling water. Break each egg separately 
into a saucer, slide it into the water, and place over moderate fire. Dip 
carefully with spoon, some of the water over the eggs until a film has 
formed over yolks, and whites are firm. Then carefully remove eggs 
with skimmer, trim edges neatly and place on hot buttered toast. Serve 
immediately. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Slice thin 6 "hard-boiled" eggs. Moisten 1 cupful bread crumbs 
with melted butter. Cover bottom of greased pudding dish with crumbs ; 
then with a layer of sliced eggs ; then with Cream Sauce. Sprinkle over 
some finely chopped ham or chicken ; season with salt and paprika. Re- 
peat until all the eggs are used. Cover top with buttered bread crumbs 
and bake in hot oven until brown. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 
Break 3 eggs into a bowl, beat lightly, add 3 tablespoonfuls cream. 
Season with paprika and salt. Heat 1 tablespoonful butter in frying 
pan, add eggs and stir constantly until of creamy consistency. This 
quantity is sufficient for two. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 
Cover bottom and sides of buttered egg shirrers with cracker or 
bread crumbs. Drop eggs in carefully, season with salt and paprika, 
cover with buttered crumbs. Place shirrers in a pan that they may be 



20 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

easily removed from oven and bake in moderate oven until eggs are set 
and crumbs brown. 

"SOFT-BOILED" EGGS. 
Drop strictly fresh eggs in boiling water, being careful not to 
crack shells. Remove kettle to back of range, and let simmer (not 
boil) about 6 minutes ; or place eggs in boiling water and boil 2 minutes 
if you wish only whites set or 3 minutes for yolks to set. 

STUFFED EGGS. 
Cut lengthwise in halves the required number of "hard-boiled" 
eggs ; remove yolks, mash and mix with half quantity of finely chopped 
ham or chicken. Season with salt, paprika, a few drops of onion juice, 
some finely chopped parsley and a little melted butter. Fill whites with 
mixture and press two halves together. If there is any of mixture left, 
spread on bottom of shallow dish, place eggs on top, cover with cream, 
or tomato sauce, sprinkle buttered bread crumbs over top and bake in 
quick oven until light brown. Serve in dish in which they were cooked. 

SCOTCH RAREBIT. 
Make a Cream Sauce of 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour and 1 pint cream; add contents of one small jar of anchovy paste. 
Chop five "hard-boiled" eggs rather fine, and add to Cream Sauce. 
Serve on hot toast. 

GOLDEN EGG CREAM TOAST. 
Separate whites of 6 "hard-boiled" eggs from yolks and chop 
whites. Make a Cream Sauce add yolk of one egg, and the chopped 
whites. Season with salt and paprika. Pour over slices of buttered 
toast. Press yolks through a ricer or sieve and sprinkle over top. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 
Spread anchovy paste on six small slices of buttered toast or place 1 
boned sardellen on each slice. Beat 6 eggs very light; add y 2 cupful 
thin cream. Season with salt and pepper. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
in frying pan, put in eggs and stir constantly until set. Pour over toast 
and serve at once. 

CHEESE OMELET. 
Make same as Ham Omelet, substituting grated cheese for ham. 

CHICKEN OMELET. 
Make same as Ham Omelet, using Chicken in place of Ham. 

HAM OMELET. 
Make same as Plain Omelet, (page 21) and when it begins to set, 
pour over 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped ham and 1 tablespoonful finely 
chopped parsley. Fold and turn on hot dish. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 21 

INDIVIDUAL FRENCH OMELET. 
Beat yolk of 1 egg slightly, add 1 tablespoonful hot water, a pinch 
of salt, a dash of pepper, then the stiffly beaten white of egg. Heat a 
little butter in Omelet pan, pour in egg ; when set and brown on bottom, 
fold and serve on hot plate. 

JELLY OMELET. 
Make a plain Omelet, adding a little sugar in place of pepper. 
When it sets spread over top some jelly, jam or marmalade. Fold, turn, 
sprinkle with sugar, and serve on hot dish. 

OMELET WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Cook mushrooms in a little stock seasoned with salt and paprika. 
Cut mushrooms in small pieces and thicken stock with flour. Make a 
plain Omelet and when it sets, pour mushrooms over it, fold and place on 
hot platter with some of the mushrooms around it. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 
Beat yolks of seven eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar until very 
light; add a pinch of salt and a little lemon juice or vanilla. Beat whites 
until very stiff, then mix very carefully with yolks, pour in buttered 
baking dish, piling it higher in the center ; dredge with sugar and bake 
in hot oven until light brown (about 15 minutes). 

OMELET WITH PEAS. 
Make same as Ham Omelet, (page 20) substituting 2 tablespoonfuls 
cooked peas for ham. 

OYSTER OMELET. 
Scald 1 dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain, cut in halves, and 
season with salt and pepper. Make Plain Omelet and when it sets pour 
oysters over it. Fold, turn on hot platter and pour Cream Sauce 
around it. 

PLAIN OMELET. 
Break 3 large eggs into a bowl and beat just long enough to blend 
yolks with whites; add a little salt and pepper. Heat 1 tablespoonful 
butter in a smooth frying pan, pour in eggs, cook until slightly brown, 
then fold and turn on a hot dish. 

RUM OMELET. 
Beat 6 eggs until light, add 1 tablespoonful rum, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Heat one tablespoonful butter in omelet pan, 
pour in eggs. When set, fold, turn, place on hot platter and sprinkle 
with sugar; or pour 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls rum over top, light and send 
immediately to the table. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BEVERAGES. 

COFFEE. 
It is better to buy the coffee beans and grind each time the quantity 
required, as ground coffee soon loses its aroma. Do not grind coffee 
too fine. A mixture of two-thirds Java and one-third Mocha makes the 
best coffee. To each cupful boiling water, allow 1 tablespoonful ground 
coffee ; add 1 extra tablespoonful for the pot. Allow y 2 egg for 8 cup- 
fuls coffee. Mix egg, coffee and a clean egg shell with a little cold water, 
pour into coffee pot and heat slowly to boiling point. Add freshly 
boiled water; boil rapidly about 5 minutes, then more slowly 10 minutes 
longer. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Make as above, cool and serve in glasses with cracked ice. Add a 
spoonful of whipped cream to each glass. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Break in pieces and dissolve 4 ounces sweet chocolate in double 
boiler; when melted add 4 cupfuls warm rich milk. Sweeten to taste. 
Cook about 20 minutes, stirring frequently. Before removing from 
fire, beat with an egg beater until smooth. Pour into cups and serve 
at once with sweetened whipped cream. 

ICED CHOCOLATE. 

Prepare as above, cool and serve in glasses with cracked ice, and 1 
spoonful sweetened whipped cream on top of each glass of chocolate. 

COCOA. 
To each cupful milk allow 1 level teaspoonful cocoa. Boil 1 quart 
milk in double boiler. Dissolve 4 teaspoonf uls cocoa in a little hot milk, 
then pour into double boiler, stirring until it boils, cover and cook 15 
minutes longer. Sweeten to taste. 

TEA. 

Freshly boiled water should be used to make Tea or Coffee. Water 
becomes flat from long boiling. Tea is best when made in an earthen 
or china tea-pot. Scald tea-pot before making tea. 

Allow 2 teaspoonf uls tea (or a little more if tea is desired strong) 
to 4 cupfuls water. Pour boiling water over tea, cover tea-pot and stand 
on back of range 5 minutes to draw. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 23 

ICED TEA NO. 1. 
Pour 4 cupfuls boiling- water over juice of 3 lemons. Sweeten to 
taste, cool and add 1 sliced orange, 2 slices cucumber rind, 1 quart fresh- 
ly made tea (not too strong) and if desired a few sprigs of mint. 
Cover and cool. Pour into pitcher and serve. 

ICED TEA NO. 2. 
Pour freshly made tea into pitcher and cool. Before serving add 
sugar and lemon juice to taste. Put ice in glasses and pour tea over it. 

ICED TEA NO. 3. 

Fill glasses one third with chopped ice. Strain over it freshly made 
tea. Serve with sugar and slices of lemon. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 
Place a slice of lemon in each cup and pour hot tea over it. Serve 
with rock candy or cut loaf sugar. 

BARLEY WATER. 
Wash 3 tablespoonfuls pearl barley and soak 2 hours. Strain and 
cover barley with 1 quart cold water; boil slowly until water is reduced 
to Yz of a quart. 

EAST INDIAN COCKTAIL. 
Fill a large cocktail glass with shaved ice ; add 1 teaspoonful Cura- 
coa (red), 1 teaspoonful Pineapple syrup, 2 or 3 dashes Bitters, 2 dashes 
Maraschino, 1 wineglassful Brandy. Stir with a spoon, strain into 
glass, twist a piece of lemon peel on top and serve. 

JERSEY COCKTAIL. 
Mix well in a large glass y 2 tablespoonful sugar, 3 or 4 lumps of 
broken ice, 3 or 4 dashes of Bitters, 1 wineglassful good cider. Strain 
into a cocktail glass and twist a piece of lemon peel on top. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 
Cook ripe blackberries slowly until they fall to pieces. Strain 
through a jelly bag. To each pint of juice add 1 pound white sugar, 
y 2 ounce ground cinnamon, % ounce powdered mace, and 2 teaspoon- 
fuls ground cloves. Boil fifteen minutes ; strain, and when cool add 
one wineglassful French brandy to each pint of syrup. 

RASPBERRY CORDIAL. 
Half fill a two gallon bottle with red raspberries and fill to the top 
with fine whiskey. Take a small cork put a piece of cheese cloth 
around it and cover bottle loosely, so as to allow the air to escape and to 
prevent bottle from bursting. Place bottle near a sunny window from 
6 to 8 weeks to ferment. Then drip through cheese cloth bag, and al- 
low 1 pint granulated sugar to each quart of juice. Cover sugar with 
just enough water to dissolve it, and boil until clear; then remove from 
range and mix with juice. Stir well, pour into demijohn and cork. 



24 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CLARET CUP. 
Squeeze juice from 1 lemon, add y 2 cupful sugar, 1 quart claret, 

1 wineglassful Curagoa, Yz cupful orange juice, ]/ 2 cupful sliced pine- 
apple, 2 slices cucumber rind, y 2 bunch mint, a small bottle of Maras- 
chino cherries. Mix thoroughly and just before serving add 1 quart 
cold Apollinaris, and a large piece of ice. If desired add more sugar. 

SAUTERNE CUP. 
Put in bowl rind of y 2 orange; rind of ]/ 2 lemon; y 2 cupful sugar 
and 2 tablespoonfuls orange Curacoa. Cover and stand 2 hours. Add 

2 cupfuls Sauterne wine. Strain and stand on ice to chill. Just be- 
fore serving add 1 quart chilled soda water, a few leaves of mint, a few 
slices of orange and a strawberry for each glass. 

GRAPE JUICE. 
Grapes should be picked over, washed and stems removed. For a 
kettle full of grapes use just enough water to prevent them from burn- 
ing. When grapes are well steamed and look wrinkled, pour into bag 
made of four thicknesses of cheese cloth, and drain over night. To every 
2 quarts of juice allow 1 cupful sugar, heat to boiling point, then skim. 
Pour into bottles and seal. When serving put crushed ice in glass, half 
fill with grape juice, and fill with water or Apollinaris. 

GRAPE JUICE A LA CLEVELAND. 

Wash, stem and cook until soft 20 pounds Concord grapes ; drip 
through bag over night; measure juice and add one quart less water 
than juice; add three pounds granulated sugar. Cook 20 minutes, bot- 
tle and seal. 

MINT JULEP. 

Put in a glass a few sprigs of mint; 1 teaspoonful sugar; 1 table- 
spoonful water. Crush mint well to extract flavor. Fill glass with 
crushed ice, add 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, and 1 teaspoonful Maraschino. 
Garnish with sprigs of mint, and 2 green Maraschino cherries. Serve 
with a straw. 

LEMONADE. 

Squeeze juice of 3 lemons and remove seeds ; add 6 glassfuls water. 
Sweeten to taste. A few slices of orange, pineapple or some crushed 
strawberries added, are an improvement. Use plenty of chopped ice. 

APOLLINARIS LEMONADE. 
Make same as above, using Apollinaris instead of water. 

LEMONADE FOR 75 PEOPLE. 
Squeeze juice from 3 dozen lemons and remove seeds, add 5 pounds 
granulated sugar, 5 gallons water, 6 sliced oranges and 1 small fresh 
pineapple, sliced. Before serving, put in bowl a large piece of ice. If 
desired, add a little more sugar. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 25 

GINGER ALE LEMONADE. 
Squeeze juice from 3 lemons and remove seeds; add 1 cupful 
sugar and 1 quart boiling water. Cool, add 1 quart ginger ale and a 
large piece of ice. If desired add a little more sugar. 

ORANGEADE. 

Make same as Lemonade, (page 24) substituting oranges for 
lemons. 

EGG NOG. 

Beat until very light, the yolk of one egg with 1 tablespoonful 
sugar; add 2 tablespoonfuls brandy or Sherry wine, then a little rich 
milk and lastly the stiffly beaten white of egg. Pour into glass and 
grate a little nutmeg on top. 

CANTON GINGER PUNCH. 
Boil 20 minutes 4 cupfuls water, y 2 cupful preserved ginger, cut 
fine, and 1 cupful sugar. Strain; add y 2 cupful lemon juice and 24 cup- 
ful orange juice. Cool, pour into a bowl and add 1 quart Apollinaris, 
a large piece of ice and a few slices of orange, lemon and pineapple. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 
Mix together 1 quart Champagne ; 1 pint Sauterne wine and 2 
cupfuls water. Sweeten to taste. Add 2 sliced oranges; 2 sliced 
lemons ; a few slices of bananas and a small bottle Maraschino cherries. 
Pour into punch bowl over a large piece of ice. If desired add a few 
sprigs of mint. Just before serving add 1 quart soda water. 

CURRANT PUNCH. 
Boil slowly for 5 minutes 2 cupfuls currant juice, \y 2 cupfuls sugar, 
and 1 quart water ; cool, pour into a bowl over a large piece of ice ; add 
2 sliced oranges, 1 sliced lemon and if desired more sugar. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Squeeze juice from 4 lemons; remove seeds; add 1 quart freshly 
made black tea, not too strong, 2 sliced lemons, 4 sliced oranges, 1 cup- 
ful fresh or canned pineapple, cut fine ; 1 small bottle Maraschino cher- 
ries, 2 cupfuls strawberry juice. Sweeten to taste and cool. Pour into 
punch bowl over a large piece of ice and add 1 quart of Apollinaris. 
Sugar fruit 2 hours before using, to extract juice. If desired other 
fruits may be added. 

GRAPE JUICE PUNCH. 

To each quart pure grape juice add 1 pint strained rich lemonade. 
Pour into punch bowl over a large piece of ice and add slices of fresh 
or canned pineapple and 2 sliced oranges. 

TOM AND JERRY. 
Beat until foamy 1 egg with 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
add y 2 wineglassful brandy and l / 2 wineglassful rum. Pour into glass 
and fill with hot water. Use 2 glasses, turning liquid from one glass to 
the other until thoroughly mixed. Serve immediately with grated nut- 
meg on top. 



26 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

EGG FLIP. 
Make same as Tom and Jerry, (page 25) using hot milk instead of 
water. 

HOT GLEE WINE. 
To each quart bottle of claret allow y 2 pint water. Add to water a 
level teaspoonful whole cloves and 2 sticks cinnamon ; boil a few minutes, 
then add claret, 1 lemon, sliced, and sugar to taste. Boil 15 minutes and 
serve. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

APPETIZERS. 

ALBANY CHEESE. 

Mix together until creamy y 2 pound grated dairy cheese, % pound 
sweet butter, l / 2 teaspoonful each of salt, sugar and mustard, a dash of 
cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoonful brandy. Shape in balls or serve in a 
dish. Sprinkle with paprika. Serve with Salad. 

CHEESE BALLS. 
Mix together \ l / 2 cupfuls grated mild cheese, 1 tablespoonful flour, 
54 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful dry- mustard, a little cayenne pepper. 
Beat whites of 3 eggs very stiff and add to mixture. Shape in Balls, roll 
in cracker crumbs, fry slowly in deep fat or butter and drain. Serve 
with Salad. 

CANAPES. 
Canapes are made by cutting bread in slices 34 i ncn thick and 4 
inches long by l}4 inches wide; or cutting in round pieces. The bread 
is toasted, buttered and browned in the oven or fried in deep fat. 

ANCHOVY CANAPE. 
Chop separately yolks and whites of "hard-boiled" eggs. Split in 
halves lengthwise and remove bones from anchovies. Mix a little 
anchovy paste with some cream cheese and spread on canapes. Divide 
canapes in quarters with anchovies, and fill in spaces alternately with 
the yolks and whites of eggs. 

CHEESE CANAPES. NO. 1. 

Spread mustard on Canapes, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, 
seasoned with salt and paprika. Bake in oven until cheese is melted, 
and serve at once. 

CHEESE CANAPES. NO. 2. 
Dip one side of bread in melted butter; brown in oven. Spread 
other side with butter, then grated cheese, sprinkle with paprika and 
bake until cheese melts. 

LOBSTER CANAPES. 
Press through a sieve y?. cupful yolks of "hard-boiled" eggs and 
mix with 1 cupful finely chopped lobster. Moisten with thick cream 
and melted butter, season with salt, cayenne pepper and French mustard. 
Spread on Canapes and garnish with rings cut from whites of "hard- 
boiled" eggs, grated yolks of "hard-boiled" eggs, and lobster coral 
pressed through a sieve. 



28 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

OLIVE AND CAPER CANAPES. 
Fry circular pieces of bread in deep fat until golden brown. Cool 
and spread with a thin layer of anchovy paste. Stone and chop one 
dozen olives, add 1 teaspoonful capers and sprinkle thickly over An- 
chovy paste. 

CANAPE LORENZO. 
Chop crab meat or lobster very fine, season with salt, cayenne pep- 
per and a few drops of lemon juice and moisten with thick White Sauce. 
Spread on slices of bread. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 1 tea- 
spoonful white of egg; spread over the crab mixture, sprinkle with 
grated cheese and brown in oven. Garnish with parsley. 

LOBSTER COCKTAIL. 
Allow one-fourth glass of lobster meat cut in pieces for each cock- 
tail ; then fill glasses with sauce prepared as for Oyster Cocktail. 

LITTLE NECK CLAM COCKTAIL. 
Put as many clams as desired in each glass and fill glasses with 
sauce prepared as for Oyster Cocktail. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 
Put 7 Blue Point oysters in each glass. Mix together 4 tablespoon- 
fuls each of Snyder's cocktail catsup, tomato catsup and lemon juice or 
vinegar, 4 teaspoonfuls prepared horse-radish, Y± teaspoonful Tabasco 
and a little salt. Chill mixture thoroughly and pour over oysters. Above 
is sufficient for 6 cocktails. 

DEVILED EGGS. 
Cut four cold "hard-boiled" eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove 
yolks without breaking the whites. Mix yolks with a teaspoonful 
anchovy paste, a little cayenne pepper, moisten with cream and refill 
whites. Cut a small piece from bottom of eggs to make them stand. 
Garnish with cress and lettuce. 

EGGS WITH CAVIARE. 

Cut a slice from one end of required number of "hard-boiled" eggs ; 
remove yolks and put through ricer. Fill whites with caviare, seasoned 
with a little lemon juice. Arrange on plates, crisp lettuce leaves moist- 
ened with French Dressing; place eggs on leaves and sprinkle yolks 
on top. 

HERRING SALAD. 

Soak 3 milch herring over night in cold water. Drain, rinse, re- 
move skin and bones. Stir until smooth the milch with y 2 cupful vine- 
gar and yolks of 3 "hard-boiled" eggs. Season with pepper and sugar. 
If too thick add more vinegar, making it about the consistency of a thin 
sauce. Cut in small pieces the herring, 3 medium-sized cold, boiled 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 29 

potatoes, 2 tart apples, 2 dill pickles and 2 beets. Chop whites of the 
"hard-boiled" eggs and one onion. Mix ingredients together, then add 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped almonds, one tablespoonful capers and 2 table- 
spoonfuls currant jelly. 

HORSE-RADISH FOR THE TABLE. 
Scrub, pare and grate 1 pound horse-radish ; mix with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, y 2 teaspoonful salt and some vinegar. Bottle in air-tight 
can. When needed mix quantity required with a little sweet cream. 

HOW TO MIX MUSTARD. NO. 1. 
Mix 1 teaspoonful sugar with 54 teaspoonful salt ; add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls dry mustard; then stir in gradually 1 tablespoonful oil and enough 
vinegar to make of right consistency. 

HOW TO MIX MUSTARD. NO. 2. 
Add cold vinegar to dry mustard and stir until it becomes a smooth 
paste. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS. 
Little Neck Clams are served raw on the half shell, same as oysters 
on the half shell. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 
Serve oysters on deep halves of the shells, allowing six to each 
person. Arrange on plates, on finely chopped ice, with a piece of lemon 
in the center of each olate. 

PATE DE FOIE GRAS. 
Fry 4 chicken or duck livers in goose fat or butter, then chop very 
fine ; add 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, % onion, a little parsley, salt and pepper 
and continue chopping while adding from time to time the fat or butter 
in which the livers were fried. The mixture must resemble paste. 
Spread on thin buttered crackers, or on buttered toast from which the 
crust has been removed. 

ALMOND SANDWICHES. 
Chop %. pound blanched almonds with an equal quantity of 
shredded or grated celery ; add a little salt. Moisten with Mayonnaise 
Dressing and spread between thin, round slices of buttered white or 
brown bread. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 
Trim crust from thin slices of bread. Spread lightly with butter. 
Chop fine and separately the whites and yolks of 4 "hard-boiled" eggs, 
four pickles and about a dozen stoned olives. Have ready some well- 
soaked anchovies, and place one at each end of a slice of bread and one 
in the middle ; fill the spaces alternately with chopped whites, yolks, 
pickles and olives. 



30 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

APPETIT SILD SANDWICHES. 
Wash and thoroughly dry fresh, crisp lettuce leaves and place on 
thin circular slices of buttered bread. Cover with Mayonnaise Dressing, 
put 2 appetit sild or 2 anchovies and 2 slices of sweet pickle on top and 
sprinkle with grated or chopped "hard-boiled" egg. 

CAVIARE WITH ROLLED SANDWICHES. 
Mix thoroughly 1 can caviare with 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil; add 
white of one "hard-boiled" egg, cut fine, a little pate de foie gras, and 
the juice of 1 lemon. Serve in lemon baskets, or on celery stalks or let- 
tuce leaves, with a rolled sandwich on one side of plate. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 
Chop very fine the white part of a small head of celery with one 
dozen capers ; add one tablespoonful very thick Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Mix thoroughly and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 
Season grated cheese with pepper, salt and dry mustard; stir in 
enough butter to make a paste. Spread between thin slices of white 
bread and fry in butter until brown. Serve hot with Salad. 

SWISS CHEESE SANDWICHES. 
Spread very thin slices of Swiss Cheese with French Mustard and 
put between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CHOPPED CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 
Moisten chopped cold chicken with Mayonnaise Dressing and 
spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

SLICED CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 
Put thin slices of cold, roasted chicken between thin slices of but- 
tered bread. 

WHIPPED CREAM CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 
Force through a meat chopper the white meat of a chicken and 
pound it to a paste. Season with a little horse radish, salt and pepper; 
mix with a little whipped cream ; then add about a tablespoonful of gela- 
tine (dissolved). When the paste is set, spread on thin, circular slices 
of buttered bread and decorate with olive rings, bits of cress and 
lettuce. 

CHOPPED HAM SANDWICHES. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread finely chopped cold, 
boiled ham mixed with Sauce Tartare. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Broil thin slices of bacon. Slice thin the breast of cold chicken 

or turkey. Toast slices of bread, remove crust, butter sparingly and 

spread with Mayonnaise Dressing. Place fresh, crisp lettuce leaves on 

the toast, cover with the chicken or turkey, then with the hot bacon, 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 31 

then with lettuce and another slice of toast. Serve immediately, as by 
standing the Mayonnaise Dressing becomes thin. 

CREAM CHEESE SANDWICHES. 
Butter and cut thin, slices from loaves of Boston brown bread and 
white bread. Spread with cream cheese, then place four slices of bread 
one on top of the other, alternating the brown and white. Remove crust 
and cut in ^ inch sandwiches or a little larger if desired. 

CREAM CHEESE AND ANCHOVY PASTE SANDWICHES. 
Mix together 1 cake Philadelphia cream cheese and contents of 1 
small jar Anchovy paste and spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. 

CREAM CHEESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHES. 
Mix cream cheese, chopped stuffed olives and Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing together, and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CREAM CHEESE AND PEPPER SANDWICHES. 
Mix cream cheese, chopped peppers and Mayonnaise Dressing to- 
gether and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CREAM CHEESE AND WALNUT SANDWICHES. 
Mix cream cheese, chopped walnuts and Mayonnaise Dressing to- 
gether and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 
Put thin slices of cucumber on thin slices of buttered brown bread ; 
cover with Mayonnaise Dressing and then with slices of buttered bread. 

DELMONICO SANDWICHES. 

Mix together Yz cupful chopped ham, 2 /$ cupful chopped chicken, 
1 Philadelphia cream cheese or an equal quantity of cottage cheese, 
chopped olives, chopped celery and vinegar pickle to taste. Mix well 
with Mayonnaise Dressing and spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. 

EGG AND CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Rub yolks of three or four "hard-boiled" eggs through a sieve. 
Season well with pepper and celery salt. Add a pinch of curry powder 
and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Pound in mortar, then add suffi- 
cient whipped cream to form a soft paste. Spread thin slices of buttered 
bread with the mixture ; put some very thin slices of cucumber on top 
and cover with slices of buttered bread. 

SLICED HAM SANDWICHES. 
Put very thin slices of cold, boiled ham, spread with French mus- 
tard, between thin slices of buttered bread. 

JELLY SANDWICHES. 
Spread Jelly or marmalade between thin slices of buttered white 
bread. 



32 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 
Wash and dry fresh crisp lettuce leaves and put between thin slices 
of buttered bread, spreading a teaspoonful Mayonnaise Dressing on 
each leaf. 

OLIVE AND ANCHOVY PASTE SANDWICHES. 
Chop some olives very fine and mix with a small quantity of 
anchovy paste. Spread between thin slices of buttered brown bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 
Remove bones from one dozen sardines, mash and season with salt, 
pepper and a little lemon juice. Add one teaspoonful each of finely 
chopped parsley, and pickle, and the chopped yolks of two "hard- 
boiled" eggs. Spread mixture between thin slices of buttered bread. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES. 
Put thin slices of cold, boiled tongue, spread with French mustard, 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

STUFFED EGGS. 
Cut 6 cold "hard-boiled" eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove yolks 
and mix smooth with 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter ; add 1 tablespoonful 
cream, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, a little salt, cayenne pepper and dry 
mustard, and refill whites. Cut a small piece from bottom of eggs to 
make them stand. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Follow recipe for Stuffed Tomatoes, substituting green peppers 
for tomatoes. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Thoroughly chill 12 medium-sized tomatoes. Remove thin slice 
from top of each, and take out seeds and some of the pulp. Chop fine 
4 "hard-boiled" eggs, 1 small green pepper and some celery; mix with 
1 small can caviare, moisten well with Mayonnaise Dressing and refill 
tomatoes. Arrange on lettuce leaves and cover with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

TOMATO RELISH. 

Butter and cut thin slices of bread from a sandwich loaf. Place 
two anchovies on each slice, cover with 1 slice of tomato, then with 
caviare; sprinkle with grated "hard-boiled" egg; put a little Mayon- 
naise Dressing on top. 



CHAPTER IX. 
SOUPS WITH MEAT STOCK. 

BOUILLON. 
Singe, draw and clean one fowl weighing about 3 pounds, and put 
in soup kettle with 1 veal bone. Cover with 6 quarts cold water. Brown 
2 pounds lean beef in 2 tablespoonfuls hot fat and add to soup kettle. 
Heat gradually to boiling point; skim; add 1 onion, 2 bay leaves, 2 
carrots, 1 small celery root and cook slowly 5 hours or longer. Strain 
through a fine sieve ; season to taste with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Cool, 
and remove fat. When chicken is tender, remove from kettle and serve 
with Caper Sauce ; or it may be browned in hot butter ; or used for 
salad or croquettes. 

SOUP STOCK. 
Soup Stock should be boiled in a closely covered kettle used for 
no other purpose. A granite kettle is best as it is easily kept clean. 
About twenty cents worth of soup meat makes enough stock for two 
days, for eight in family. Buy lean beef or shank, or both, and if de- 
sired add a veal or lamb bone (variety is best). Wipe meat with cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water; put it in kettle and cover with about 4 
quarts of cold water; heat slowly to boiling point and skim; then add 
1 onion, 1 potato, 1 carrot, some celery, parsley, tomatoes cut in pieces. 
Cook slowly about 5 or 6 hours. Season, strain and cool ; remove fat 
before using stock. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK. NO. 1. 
Wipe 3 pounds knuckle of veal and proceed the same as for Soup 
Stock, omitting the tomatoes. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK. NO. 2. 
The water in which a fowl or chicken is cooked makes White Stock. 

BEEF TEA. 
Cut in small pieces 1 pound of very lean steak (the round cut is 
best), cover with 1 pint cold water. Let stand 1 hour. Put into 
granite kettle and boil slowly 15 minutes. Strain through a piece of 
cheese cloth, season with salt and pepper and serve hot. If desired a 
little boiled rice may be added. 

BEEF JUICE. 
Broil over a clear fire until thoroughly heated, a thick cut of fresh 
juicy steak, without fat. Cut in small pieces, put in a meat press and 
squeeze out all the juice. Salt and serve immediately. (Remove fat 
if any). 



34 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

MUTTON BROTH. 
Wipe and cut in small pieces 3 pounds lean mutton and put into 
soup kettle with 3 quarts cold water. Heat gradually to boiling point, 
skim, and cook slowly and steadily four hours. Strain, cool, remove fat. 
Return broth to kettle, add 3 tablespoonfuls cooked rice and a little 
chopped parsley. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Serve with 
crackers. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Chop fine 1 small bunch celery, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 3 medium-sized 
potatoes ; put in soup kettle and cover with 1 quart boiling salted water. 
Cook slowly y 2 hour, or until vegetables are tender, then add 3 pints 
rich soup stock. Stew one pint tomatoes and strain into stock. Cut into 
small pieces y 2 pound ham or bacon, fry until crisp and add to stock. 
Chop and fry 1 onion in the bacon fat, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, stir 
until smooth and brown, and add to the stock. Season with salt, pepper, 
ginger, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful thyme and 1 
teaspoonful marjoram. Chop 2 dozen clams, heat them in their own 
liquor, with 1 large tablespoonful butter and add to stock just before 
serving. Serve very hot. 

CONSOMME. 

Put 1 small marrow bone in soup kettle and cover with 3 quarts 
cold water. Add 2 pounds lean beef and 2 pounds veal, cut in pieces. 
Heat slowly to boiling point, skim, add 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bay leaf, 1 
celery root and cook slowly 5 hours. Remove from fire, strain, season 
to taste with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Cool and remove fat. 

BARLEY OR RICE SOUP. 
Cook x / 2 cupful pearl barley or rice in boiling salted water about 
2 hours, or until tender. Add 2 quarts soup stock and thicken with 1 
tablespoonful flour dissolved in water. Season with salt and pepper. 
Beat the yolk of 1 egg in the soup tureen and stir soup slowly into it. 

BEAN SOUP. 
Wash well and soak over night 1 quart navy beans. Drain, put in 
saucepan, add 2 quarts cold water. Heat water slowly to boiling point 
and again drain. Add to beans, 2 onions (chopped and fried in 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter), 1 carrot, 2 potatoes, sliced thin, a few stalks of 
celery or a piece of celery root. Cover with 2y 2 quarts boiling salted 
water, and cook until beans are very soft. Rub through a sieve, return 
to kettle, season with salt, pepper and 1 large tablespoonful butter. If 
too thick add enough boiling water to make soup the consistency of 
cream. Serve with croutons. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 
Wash well and soak over night 1 pint black beans. Drain and 
cover with \y 2 quarts boiling water. Add 1 pound smoked beef and 
cook about 2 hours or until beans are tender. Rub through a sieve, re- 
turn to kettle and add 1 quart soup stock. Season with salt and pepper. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 35 

Put into the tureen 2 chopped, "hard-boiled" eggs, 1 lemon sliced, 1 
wineglassful Sherry wine, then pour in the boiling soup. 

CHICKEN SOUP. NO. 1. 
Singe, draw and clean 1 fowl weighing 3 or 4 pounds, put in soup 
kettle and cover with 4 quarts cold water. Heat gradually to boiling 
point, skim and cook slowly 2 hours. Then add 1 small onion, 2 sprigs 
parsley, 2 stalks celery or a small celery root, chopped fine. Boil slowly 
2 hours longer, strain and remove fat. Season with salt, pepper and nut- 
meg or ginger. About 15 minutes before serving add noodles, boiled 
rice or balls. 

CHICKEN SOUP. NO. 2. 
Prepare as for Chicken Soup No. 1 a fowl weighing 3 or 4 pounds 
and put in soup kettle with a knuckle of veal. Cover with 4 quarts cold 
water. Heat slowly to boiling point, skim ; add 2 stalks celery or 1 
celery root, 1 onion, 2 sprigs parsley, chopped. Cook until chicken is 
tender. Remove chicken and strain stock. Skim off fat, then thicken 
with 2 tablespoonfuls flour dissolved in a little of the stock. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Remove the white meat from the 
chicken, chop it fine and add to soup. Just before serving pour in 1 cup- 
ful rich cream and the yolks of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, mashed fine. 

GREEN KERN SOUP. 

Cook y cupful green kern in boiling salted water about 2 hours, 
or until tender ; then press through strainer into 2 quarts hot soup stock. 
Beat yolk of 1 egg in soup tureen and stir the soup slowly into it. Serve 
with croutons. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Boil until tender 1 small cupful peas ; 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 stalks 
celery, y cauliflower, cut in small pieces. Drain. Chop and fry 1 onion 
in 2 tablespoonfuls hot butter, add vegetables and cook a few minutes. 
Heat 2 quarts soup stock, add vegetables and let simmer gently 20 
minutes, then add the white leaves of 1 head of lettuce, cut in pieces 
the size of a half dollar and cook ten minutes longer. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

LENTIL OR LINSEN SOUP. 

Wash well and soak over night y 2 cupful lentils in cold water. 
Drain and put in soup kettle with 3 quarts cold water and about 2 pounds 
smoked sausage, tongue or smoked beef. Cook slowly and steadily 3 
hours, then add 2 tablespoonfuls chopped celery and cook until meat 
and lentils are tender. Remove meat and skim fat from soup. Chop 
and fry brown 1 onion in 2 tablespoonfuls hot fat, add 2 scant table- 
spoonfuls flour ; mix well ; pour in slowly 1 cupful hot soup stock ; stir 
until smooth, then add to soup. Season to taste and serve with the 
smoked meat cut in pieces and reheated in the soup, or serve with 
croutons. 



36 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

DRIED PEA SOUP. 

Follow recipe for Split Pea Soup, substituting y 2 cupful dried peas 
for split peas. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Heat \y 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a soup kettle; when it bubbles add 
\y 2 tablespoonfuls flour; stir until brown, then add gradually 2 quarts 
hot soup stock. Season with salt, pepper, mace, y 2 teaspoonful pow- 
dered thyme, 2 cloves, 1 bay leaf, and let simmer y 2 hour. Put into 
soup tureen 1 sliced lemon, 2 sliced "hard-boiled" eggs, some of the 
soup meat cut in small pieces and 1 wineglassful Sherry wine; then 
strain soup into tureen. If desired egg balls may be substituted for 
the meat. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 
Singe, draw, clean and cut in pieces a 3 pound chicken and put in 
soup kettle with 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add 1 sliced onion and 2 car- 
rots, cut fine. Cook until brown, then add 1 tablespoonful flour and 1 
teaspoonful curry powder. Cover with 4 quarts cold water and cook 
slowly and steadily 3 or 4 hours or until chicken is tender. Remove 
chicken; add to stock 1 cupful tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls celery, cut 
fine, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 2 cloves and simmer y 2 hour 
longer. Strain and remove fat. Return to soup kettle, add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls boiled rice, and season with salt, pepper and a little mace. Cut 
chicken in small pieces and heat in stock a few minutes before serving. 

NOODLE SOUP. 
Sprinkle noodles slowly into boiling soup stock about 10 minutes 
before serving. 

SOUP FROM LEFT OVER POULTRY OR MEAT. 
Chop in small pieces and put in soup kettle a turkey or chicken car- 
cass, or roast beef and steak bones and all left over pieces of beef, veal 
or poultry. Cover with cold water; add dressing (if any remains from 
poultry), 1 small onion, 1 carrot sliced and a stalk of celery. Cook 
slowly 3 hours. Strain and remove fat. Season to taste. Serve hot 
with Boiled Rice or Egg Dumplings. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 
Wash and dry 2 ox-tails, cut in small pieces, and fry until brown 
in 2 tablespoonfuls hot butter. Put in soup kettle, add 2 pounds soup 
meat, 4 quarts water, 2 carrots, a little parsley, a stalk of celery, 3 
cloves, 1 bay leaf. Cook slowly about 4 hours ; then strain. Chop 1 
onion very fine, brown in 1 tablespoonful butter; add 1 tablespoonful 
flour and one cupful soup stock. Stir until smooth, then pour slowly 
into the soup, stirring constantly. Cut the carrots into dice and add to 
soup before serving. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 
Wash well and soak over night y 2 cupful split peas. Drain, cover 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 37 

with boiling salted water and cook about 1 hour or until soft; rub 
through a sieve into 1 quart hot soup stock. Season to taste and serve 
with croutons. 

TOMATO SOUP WITH MEAT BALLS. 
Chop 1 good-sized onion and fry in 2 tablespoonfuls hot fat or but- 
ter; chop a few stalks of celery and add both to one quart soup stock. 
Stew and strain two quarts of tomatoes or one quart can; add to stock 
and cook slowly 20 minutes. Season with salt, cayenne pepper and 
ground ginger. Thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls flour dissolved in a 
little of the stock. Fifteen minutes before serving add Meat Balls, 
(page 41). 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 
Wipe 1 large shin of beef and put into soup kettle with 4 quarts 
cold water. Heat slowly to boiling point, skim, then cook slowly 4 
hours. Remove fat. Clean and cut into dice, or chop, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 
1 potato, 1 small onion, 1 small piece white cabbage, 1 celery root and 
put into soup ; add 4 tomatoes or 1 cupful canned tomato. Scald 1 table- 
spoonful rice or barley and add to soup. Season with salt, pepper and a 
little thyme and cook about 1 hour longer or until vegetables are tender. 



CHAPTER X. 

CREAM SOUPS. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 
Wash thoroughly and boil in salted water until tender, 2 bunches 
of asparagus. Cut tips from 1 bunch and set aside. Press remainder 
through a colander into 1 quart soup stock. Heat \y 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour and stir until smooth ; add gradually 1 
pint hot cream or rich milk, stirring until it thickens, then stir in the 
stock. Season with salt and pepper. Pour in tureen, add tips of aspara- 
gus and 1 tablespoonful butter and serve immediately. Canned aspara- 
gus may be used if the fresh cannot be obtained. The above soup may 
be made without meat stock by substituting milk for stock. 

BROWN FLOUR SOUP. 
Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter add 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Stir until 
brown, then add gradually 1 pint boiling water. Season with salt and 
nutmeg. Boil about 5 minutes and serve hot. 

CLAM SOUP. 
Drain 25 clams and chop fine. Heat clam liquor to boiling point. 
Remove scum and add 1 pint boiling water, and the clams and cook 
slowly a few minutes. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter, stir in \ l / 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour; when smooth pour in slowly 1 pint hot rich milk; stir 
until thick, then mix with the clam liquor. Season with salt and pepper. 
Put into the tureen the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir in gradually the hot 
soup and serve immediately. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 
Wash and cut into small pieces 2 large roots of celery or 1 small 
bunch and 1 sliced onion. 'Cover with 1 pint cold water, and cook about 
l / 2 hour, or until tender; then press through colander into 1 quart boil- 
ing milk or half cream and half milk. Heat \y 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, when well-blended add gradually the hot milk, 
stirring constantly until it thickens. Season with salt and pepper. Pour 
into tureen and add 1 tablespoonful butter. Serve with croutons. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 
Cook until tender 1 pint grated corn in \ l / 2 pints hot water, or heat 
1 can corn. Press through a colander. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
add \y 2 tablespoonfuls flour; when well blended stir in slowly \y 2 pints 
hot rich milk, or half milk and half cream. When mixture thickens 
add corn, cook one minute and season with salt and pepper. Mix a little 
cream or milk with the beaten yolks of two eggs and stir into the soup 
just before serving. Do not boil the soup after eggs have been added. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 39 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP. 
Clean and chop 1 pound fresh mushrooms and add 3 pints white 
stock. Cook 20 minutes and rub through a sieve. Heat 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, stir until smooth; add slowly 1 
pint hot cream and the hot stock. Season with salt, and pepper. Just 
before serving add 2 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 
Heat \y 2 tablespoonfuls butter, then add \y 2 tablespoonfuls flour; 
stir until well blended, then stir into it 1 quart hot milk, or half milk 
and half cream. Cook until tender 1 pint shelled peas or heat 1 can 
peas ; rub through sieve and add to boiling milk. Season with salt and 
pepper. Pour in tureen and add 1 tablespoonful butter. Serve with 
croutons. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 
Cover 6 potatoes with salted boiling water; add 1 stalk celery, 

1 bay leaf and 1 small onion chopped and fried in 1 tablespoonful 
butter. Cook until potatoes are very soft. Heat 1 tablespoonful butter ; 
stir into it 1 tablespoonful flour. When smooth, add gradually 1 quart 
hot milk, or half cream and half milk; stir constantly until it boils. 
Press potatoes through a strainer and add milk slowly to the potatoes. 
Season with salt, pepper and 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. If 
soup is too thick, add a little more hot milk. Serve with croutons. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 
Cook one quart can of tomatoes with 1 bay leaf and 1 stalk of celery. 
Strain through a sieve and remove to back of range. Heat \y 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; add 3 tablespoonfuls flour and stir until smooth ; 
add slowly 1 quart hot rich milk, stirring constantly until mixture 
thickens. Add to tomato 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 
and when ready to serve add to the boiling milk. Season with salt, 
pepper and mace and strain into tureen over 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
The soup will curdle if allowed to remain on the range after mixing the 
tomato and milk. Serve with croutons. 

WINE SOUP. 
Boil 3 cupfuls red or white wine with 1 cupful water for 15 miuutes ; 
add l / 2 lemon, sliced thin, 6 whole cloves and a few pieces of cinnamon 
bark; sweeten to taste. Put in tureen the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, pour 
in hot soup, stirring slowly to prevent curdling. Serve hot or cold. 

OYSTER STEW. 
Drain 1 quart oysters. Heat the liquor to boiling point, skim care- 
fully, then add 1 quart hot milk, or y 2 milk and y 2 cream. Season 
with pepper, salt and nutmeg, thicken with 1 tablespoonful flour dis- 
solved in a little milk. Cook a few minutes ; add oysters ; heat thor- 
oughly, but do not boil, as it toughens them. Just before serving add 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Put a few oyster crackers in tureen and pour 
hot soup over them. 



40 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

OYSTER STEW WITHOUT MILK. 
Heat to boiling point 1 quart strained oyster liquor, skim, season with 
salt, pepper and nutmeg and if desired, a little chopped parsley or celery. 
Add oysters ; heat thoroughly but do not boil. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, then pour in tureen over oyster crackers. 

SCALLOP STEW. 
Make same as oyster stew, substituting 1 quart scallops for oysters. 



CHAPTER XI. 

SOUP GARNISHINGS. 

BREAD BALLS. 
Follow recipe for Matzo Balls, substituting 3 slices of a five cent 
white loaf of bread for matzos. 

CRACKER BALLS. 
Cream \y 2 tablespoonfuls butter or fat; add 1 egg and 1 teaspoon- 
ful finely chopped parsley; season with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Add 
3 rolled soda crackers. Shape into small balls and add to boiling soup 
5 minutes before serving. 

EGG BALLS. 
To the mashed yolks of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs add the raw yolk of 1 
egg, 1 tablespoonful melted butter and enough sifted flour to hold mix- 
ture together. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Shape into balls 
the size of a hickory nut, and drop into soup 5 minutes before serving. 

MARROW BALLS. 
Remove marrow from bone or buy 5 cents worth from the market. 
Chill thoroughly, then cream until very soft. Add 1 egg and enough 
cracker meal to hold mixture together, but not too much or the balls 
will be heavy. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Shape into small 
balls and add to boiling soup 15 minutes before serving. 

MATZO BALLS. 

Chop and fry brown 1 small onion in 1 tablespoonful butter or fat. 
Soak 2 matzos in cold water. When soft, drain, add to onion and stir 
until mixture does not stick to pan. Remove from range and add 2 
beaten eggs and some finely chopped parsley. Season with pepper, salt, 
ginger and nutmeg; add enough matzo or cracker meal to hold mixture 
together, using as little as possible, as too much will make the balls 
heavy. Shape into small balls and drop into boiling soup 15 minutes 
before serving. 

MEAT BALLS. 

Soak 2 slices of bread; squeeze dry and mix with y 2 pound beef, 
chopped fine; add a small onion, chopped and fried, a little chopped 
parsley, 1 egg, salt, pepper and ginger to taste. Shape into small balls, 
and fry brown. 

FRIED CROOTONS. 
Remove crusts from slices of stale bread, and cut slices in small 
cubes. Fry in deep fat until brown or saute them in a little butter or 
fat. 



42 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CROOTONS IN THE OVEN. 
Butter slices of stale bread and remove crusts. Cut slices in small 
cubes, put in pan and bake until a light brown. 

DUMPLINGS. 
Beat 1 egg, add % cupful flour, y 2 teaspoonful salt and enough 
water to make a stiff batter. Stir until smooth. Drop from teaspoon into 
boiling soup 15 minutes before serving. 

EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 
Cook in saucepan for a few minutes 1 cupful cold water with 2 
tablespoonfuls butter; add 3 tablespoonfuls flour, beat well, cool, then 
add one at a time the yolks of 3 eggs. Stir well. Boil the soup. Dip 
a teaspoon in the hot soup, then in the batter and drop batter by 
spoonfuls into soup, being sure each time to dip spoon first in soup. 
Boil dumplings about 3 minutes. 

EIN LAUF. 
Beat 1 egg, add 1 tablespoonful flour, a pinch of salt and stir until 
smooth. Drop slowly from end of spoon into boiling soup and cook 
3 minutes. 

NOODLES. 
Put % cupful flour in a bowl, add a pinch of salt, make a hole in 
center and pour in one beaten egg. Stir flour and egg together with a 
knife until well-mixed, then work with the hands, adding enough flour 
to make dough stiff enough to roll. Form in 2 balls; roll each ball on 
floured board until very thin. Place on a clean white cloth until dry, 
but not so dry that the dough becomes brittle ; then roll each sheet like a 
jellyroll and cut into three equal parts ; place one on top of the other and 
cut into very fine threads. Shake threads out lightly to separate them 
well and spread on board to dry thoroughly. 



CHAPTER XII. 

ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES. 

FRICASSEE OF DRIED BEEF. 
Chip 2 cupfuls dried beef very thin, cover with cold water, bring 
to boiling point and drain. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter in saucepan, 
add 3 tablespoonfuls flour, stir until smooth ; then add 1 quart rich milk, 
stirring constantly until mixture thickens. Season with nutmeg, pepper, 
a little onion juice and if necessary a little salt. Add beef and stir until 
hot. Just before serving add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Serve on but- 
tered toast. 

CREAMED CLAMS. 
Use soft part of 2 dozen clams. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in 
hot chafing dish, add clams and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Cook 
5 minutes. Beat yolks of 2 eggs, mix with 1 cupful cream, add to 
clams ; season with salt, pepper and little paprika. Cook over hot water 
until mixture thickens. 

STEAMED CLAMS. 
Clams for steaming should be bought in the shell and should be 
alive. Wash and scrub shells with a brush, rinse, then put into a kettle, 
allowing one-half cupful water to four quarts clams. Cover closely, 
and steam until shells partially open, but be careful that clams are not 
overdone. Remove to platter and serve at once with melted butter, salt 
and pepper, and if desired, slices of lemon. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Substitute ^2 pound crab meat for lobster and prepare same as 
Deviled Lobster No. 1, (page 45). Wash crab shells, fill with mixture, 
brush with beaten egg, cover with crumbs and pieces of butter and brown 
in quick oven. 

FRIED SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Remove the sand bags and spongy parts, then wash and dry the 
crabs. Dip first in cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper, then 
in beaten egg, again in cracker crumbs. Fry brown in hot butter or lard. 
Garnish with parsley and slices of lemons and serve with Sauce Tartare. 

CRAB MEAT A LA DEWEY. 
Heat \ l /2 tablespoonfuls butter in a hot chafing dish, with y 2 cup- 
ful good Sherry wine; season with salt and a little paprika. Add to 
this one pint crabmeat, y 2 cupful quartered mushrooms, a few chopped 
truffles. Stir one teaspoonful flour into one cupful cream, add beaten 
yolks of 4 eggs, a little finely minced parsley and pour into crab mix- 
ture, stirring constantly until it thickens, but do not let boil. Serve im- 
mediately. 



44 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CRAB A LA RAVIGOTE. 
Flake one pint crab meat and mix with Mayonnaise Dressing. Fill 
shells. Cut strips of green or red pepper and put crosswise on top. 
Fill spaces between with alternate chopped whites and chopped yolks 
of "hard-boiled" eggs. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour; cook a few 
minutes, then add 1 cupful cream; stir until thick. Remove from fire 
and add yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon- 
ful chopped, fried onion, 1 pint finely chopped cold chicken. Season with 
salt, paprika and nutmeg. Cool. Form into croquettes, dip in crumbs, 
beaten egg and again in crumbs, and fry in boiling fat or oil until light 
brown. Garnish with parsley. Cold turkey may be used for croquettes. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 
Flake one pound cold boiled salmon or contents of one pound can ; 
season with cayenne pepper, salt and one tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
Rub together 2 tablespoonfuls butter and 2 tablespoonfuls flour and add 
to one cupful boiling cream or milk; stir until thick; add beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs and the salmon. Remove from fire and add stiffly beaten 
whites of the 2 eggs. Cool, shape, dip in crumbs, beaten egg and again 
in crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 
Make a cream sauce of 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour and 1 cupful cream. Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Cook a few min- 
utes ; remove from fire and add 2 cupfuls chopped lobster meat and 
some finely chopped parsley. Season with salt, paprika and nutmeg. 
Mix well, cool, shape in form of cutlets, dip in crumbs, beaten egg and 
again in crumbs and fry in boiling fat or oil until brown. Drain, ar- 
range on hot platter, insert in each the tip end of a small claw. Garnish 
with parsley and serve with Tartare Sauce. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS. 
Wash and dry the frogs' legs. Sprinkle with salt and pepper; dip 
in crumbs, beaten egg and again in crumbs and fry until golden brown 
in deep fat or butter. Drain, garnish with parsley and serve with Tar- 
tare Sauce. 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

Put in pudding dish a layer of bread crumbs. Cover with small 
pieces of American cheese; season with salt, paprika, dry mustard and 
lumps of butter. Repeat until dish is almost filled. Beat 3 eggs, add 1 
cupful milk, pour over top, and bake in hot oven about y 2 hour. Serve 
at once. 

CHICKEN A LA KING. 

Dress, clean and season with salt and pepper a four pound chicken, 
half cover with boiling water, add a little butter, celery and parsley, 
cover and cook until tender. When cold remove skin and cut the white 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 45 

meat in slices. Cut one green pepper and four large fresh mushrooms 
in thin slices ; fry in butter until about half done. Add the slices of 
chicken and 1 Spanish red pepper, sliced; pour over a little chicken 
stock; season with salt, cayenne pepper and one wineglassful Sherry 
wine and cook about ten minutes ; then add cream enough to cover, and 
cook slowly for about 8 or 10 minutes. Before serving thicken with 
yolks of 2 raw eggs mixed with a little cream, stirring constantly while 
pouring in the eggs. Add a few chopped truffles. Serve on buttered 
toast or in a chafing dish. 

TO BOIL AND OPEN LOBSTERS. 

Place medium-sized live lobsters, head downward, in a deep kettle 
of boiling water, seasoned with pepper and salt. Cover and boil ^2 
hour, then wash, dry and place on ice. When cold, split lengthwise 
through the center, remove the stomach (which is under the head,) the 
spongy parts between the body and the shell, and the vein which runs 
through the length of the tail. Serve cold with slices of lemon and gar- 
nish with parsley. 

BAKED LIVE LOBSTER. 

Prepare lobster same as for Broiled Live Lobster, place in dripping 
pan with flesh side up, spread with butter, sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and paprika and bake 20 minutes in hot oven. Garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon and serve with melted butter. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER. 
Split live lobsters in halves with a sharp, pointed knife. Remove 
intestinal vein, liver and stomach, crack claw shells. Place on greased 
broiler, flesh side up in hot gas oven, near the flame. Spread with 
butter, sprinkle with bread crumbs and paprika and broil until light 
brown. Remove to hot platter, season with salt, pepper, and melted 
butter, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and serve with melted 
butter. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. NO. 1. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls flour; stir until 
smooth, then add 1 pint cream. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. 
Remove from fire and add meat (chopped fine,) of 2 lobsters, yolks of 
4 "hard-boiled" eggs, mashed fine, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, a 
little cayenne pepper and salt. Fill shells with mixture, brush with 
beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs and small pieces of butter and 
brown in quick oven. Canned salmon may be substituted for lobster. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. NO. 2. 
Four medium-sized lobsters for 15 people; yolks of 10 "hard- 
boiled" eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley, 4 tablespoonfuls butter, 
6 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, V/2 pints cream, or part cream and milk, 
3 tablespoonfuls flour, juice of one or two lemons, salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste. Cut lobster meat in small pieces. Heat butter, add 
flour; when smooth add cream and stir until mixture thickens. Take 
from fire, add bread crumbs, lobster, "hard-boiled" yolks, mashed 



46 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

fine, and other ingredients. Mix well, fill shells, brush with beaten 
egg, sprinkle lightly with buttered bread crumbs and put in quick oven 
for 15 minutes to brown. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

LOBSTER FARCI. 
Cut into small pieces meat from a 3 pound lobster. Heat 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, add 3 tablespoonfuls flour ; stir until thoroughly 
blended; then add slowly 2 cupfuls cream, 1 tablespoonful chopped 
parsley, %. teaspoonful mustard,- 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice, 4 "hard- 
boiled" eggs, chopped rather fine, salt, cayenne pepper, and nutmeg to 
taste; add lobster meat and let cook a few minutes. Fill ramekins, 
cover with crumbs and melted butter and bake until crumbs are brown. 

FRIED LOBSTER. 

Remove lobster meat from the tail and claws. Season with salt, 
pepper and lemon juice and proceed same as for Fried Oysters, (page 
48). 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. NO. 1. 

Remove meat from a two pound lobster and cut in good-sized pieces. 
Melt 3 tablespoonfuls butter, add lobster, season with salt and paprika. 
Cook one wineglassful Sherry or Madeira wine until reduced to half 
quantity (which takes about 3 minutes) and add to lobster. Have ready 
yolks of 3 eggs, beaten with one-half pint cream, and stir slowly into 
lobster, continuing to stir until it thickens. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. NO. 2. 
Remove meat from 3 medium-sized lobsters and cut in good-sized 
pieces. Cut in pieces the whites of 6 "hard-boiled" eggs and mix with 
lobster. Melt one-half cup butter ; stir in one tablespoonful flour. 
Stir to a paste the yolks of the six "hard-boiled" eggs with part of one- 
half pint cream, and add to melted butter. Then add the remainder of 
the cream and season with salt, cayenne pepper and % teaspoonful mace. 
Add lobster, heat thoroughly and just before serving stir in slowly a 
wineglassful Sherry wine. 

SALMON LOAF. 
Remove salmon from 1 pound can and chop fine ; mix in 2 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter and when smooth add l / 2 cupful bread crumbs, 
3 eggs, beaten until light, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Season with 
salt and pepper. Put in buttered form and steam one hour. Serve with 
Hollandaise or with the following sauce: Heat 1 cupful milk, thicken 
with one tablespoonful cornstarch; add 1 tablespoonful butter. Season 
with salt, pepper and a little Tomato Catsup. Add one egg and cook until 
thick. Remove salmon from mold and pour sauce over it before serving. 

LOBSTER OR SALMON TIMBALES. 

Remove salmon or lobster from a pound can. Shred and pound 

until smooth. Season with salt and paprika. Add a few finely chopped 

almonds ; stir in one cupful cream, whipped stiff, then the stiffly beaten 

whites of 3 eggs. Put in buttered timbale molds, place in a pan partly 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 47 

filled with boiling water and cook in moderate oven about 20 minutes. 
Remove from molds to platter. Serve with Hollandaise or Tartare 
Sauce. The meat of a live lobster or a pound of freshly cooked fish may 
be substituted for canned fish. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 
Wash, peel and cut off stems from 1 pound mushrooms ; fry 5 min- 
utes in 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Place on dish in oven to keep warm 
while preparing sauce. Add one tablespoonful flour to the butter in 
pan, and mix until smooth ; add % cupful cream ; stir constantly until it 
boils. Season with salt, paprika and 2 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine. 
Put mushrooms on hot buttered toast and pour cream sauce over them. 

CHICKEN A LA MIKADO. 
Boil a four pound fowl until tender, and use only the white meat 
cut in pieces. Add one small can asparagus tips, y 2 pound fresh mush- 
rooms, one Spanish pepper, cut fine. Heat in saucepan or chafing dish 
2 tablespoonfuls butter and a large wineglassful of Sherry or Madeira; 
add the above ingredients. Season with salt and paprika. Have ready 
in a bowl the yolks of 4 eggs beaten with a pint of sweet cream and 
add to the mixture. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS IN RAMEKINS. 
Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour. When 
well mixed, add 1 cupful rich milk and stir constantly until it boils. 
Season with salt and paprika; add 1 can drained mushrooms. Heat 
thoroughly and just before removing from fire add the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine. Pour into ramekins, 
sprinkle crumbs on top and dot with butter. Place ramekins in a pan of 
hot water and put in oven for a few minutes to brown. 

SAUTED MUSHROOMS. 
Select large mushrooms, wash, peel and cut off stems. Heat 2 
tablespoonfuls butter in shallow frying pan, add mushrooms ; season 
with pepper and salt and saute for about 10 minutes. Place on slices 
of buttered toast and pour melted butter over them. 

OYSTERS AND MUSHROOMS. 
Prepare same as for Oysters a la Poulette, (page 49) using part 
oysters and part mushrooms, and adding half of the liquor from the 
mushrooms to the oyster liquor. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Toast as many slices of bread as required and place on hot plates. 
Parboil sweetbreads, cut in good-sized pieces and broil over a clear fire. 
Season with pepper and salt. Wash large mushrooms, remove stems, 
peel caps, and fry 5 minutes in 2 tablespoonfuls hot butter. Season 
with salt and pepper. Place a piece of sweetbread on each slice of 
toast, cover with two mushrooms and pour melted butter over. Serve 
very hot. 



48 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI. 
Cook y pound macaroni in salted boiling water ; drain, pour over 
it cold water then cut in small pieces. Put in buttered dish first a 
layer of macaroni ; cover well with oysters and Cream Sauce. Repeat 
until dish is almost filled, having the last layer macaroni; cover with 
bread crumbs, dot with butter, sprinkle with salt and paprika and pour 
over about y 2 cupful oyster juice. Bake until brown. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 
Drain large oysters, dry on towel, season with pepper and salt, roll 
in fine bread or cracker crumbs, then in Qgg, again in crumbs and fry 
until golden brown in deep fat or oil. Drain on brown paper, place on 
hot platter and serve immediately. Oysters should not be fried until 
ready to serve, as they are not good unless eaten very hot. Serve with 
slices of lemon. 

OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG. 
Put 25 oysters in a saucepan with \ l / 2 tablespoonfuls butter, y 2 
cupful good Sherry wine ; pepper and salt to taste. Cook until edges 
of oysters curl, then add ]/ 2 cupful quartered mushrooms and a few 
chopped truffles. Beat yolks of four eggs with one cupful rich cream, 
add to oysters and stir until thick. Serve at once. 

CELERIED OYSTERS. 
Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in hot chafing dish; add one dozen 
oysters, one tablespoonful minced celery, season with salt and pepper. 
Cook 3 minutes, add one wineglassful Sherry wine ; cook two minutes 
and serve on hot, buttered toast. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
Put in a buttered baking dish a layer of oysters, cover with a lay- 
er of cracker or bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot 
with pieces of butter. Repeat until dish is almost filled, having the 
last layer crumbs. Dot with pieces of butter and pour over y 2 cupful 
oyster liquor and y 2 cupful cream, mixed together. Bake in hot oven 
about 25 minutes. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 
Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter in chafing dish or spider ; add 2 dozen 
large oysters and y 2 cupful oyster juice. Season with salt and pepper. 
Cover and cook 2 minutes. Serve on hot buttered toast. 

PATTY SHELLS. 
Roll Puff Paste, (page 130) %. inch thick, shape with a patty cutter, 
first dipped in flour. Now take a second cutter about one-half inch small- 
er ; dip in flour and press it into the tops of the patties, half way through 
the paste. Brush the tops with beaten egg and bake in a hot oven. When 
baked remove the marked out covers and cut a little from the center 
of the patties without defacing the outside. Keep patties and covers 
in a warm place until ready for use. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 49 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 
Boil until tender a chicken; skin, cut in small pieces and add to 
Cream Sauce. Fill Patty Shells, (page 48). 

OYSTER PATTIES. 
Scald one pint small oysters in their own liquor, then strain. Heat 
2 tablespoonfuls butter, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Stir until smooth, 
without browning. Add to the oyster liquor enough cream or milk 
to make a pint. Season with pepper, salt and a little mace ; add slowly to 
the flour and stir until thick. If milk is used, stir in the yolk of an 
egg just before removing from fire. Heat oysters in liquor and fill 
Patty Shells, (page 48). 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Dry large oysters, wrap a thin slice of fat bacon around each and 
fasten with toothpick. Put in broiler, place broiler over pan and bake 
in hot oven until bacon is crisp and brown. Turn broiler once during 
cooking. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Line a pudding dish with rich Paste, (page 130) and bake until light 
brown. Heat 1 cupful cream or rick milk. Dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour in oyster liquor and add to milk, stirring until it boils. Season with 
pepper, salt and plenty of butter. Put raw oysters on bottom crust, pour 
over them the Cream Sauce, cover with paste and bake 15 minutes in 
hot oven. 

OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 
Scald 30 oysters in their own liquor and drain. Heat 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter in saucepan, or chafing dish, add 1 tablespoonful flour; stir 
until smooth ; add gradually oyster liquor. Heat to boiling point. 
Season with paprika, salt and nutmeg, then add yolks of 3 eggs, beaten 
with 1 cupful cream. Stir for a few minutes. Add oysters, heat well 
but do not let boil. Serve very hot in chafing dish. 

SWEETBREAD PATTIES. 
Clean and boil 1 pound sweetbreads, cut in small pieces and add to 
Cream Sauce. Fill Patty Shells, (page 48). 

SARDINE RAREBIT. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter, % tablespoonful salt, %. tablespoonful 
paprika, a few drops of Tabasco Sauce, 1 tablespoonful prepared mus- 
tard, 1 cupful grated cheese and 1 cupful cream. Add 6 sardines, boned 
and mashed, and 2 eggs, well-beaten. Cook until egg thickens, then 
pour on slices of toast. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 
Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in chafing dish; add \ l / 2 pounds soft, 
mild cheese, cut in small pieces ; salt, cayenne pepper and dry mustard 
to taste. Stir constantly, and as cheese melts add gradually l / 2 cupful 



50 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

ale or lager beer, or enough to make mixture smooth and of a creamy 
consistency. Serve at once on buttered toast, on very hot plates. 

BOILED SHAD ROE. 
Wash roe and cook in slightly salted boiling water until very tender. 
Place on hot platter, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley and pour over it plenty of melted butter. If preferred 
a Cream Sauce may be used instead of melted butter. 

CREAMED SHAD ROE. 
Clean a shad roe and cook twenty minutes in boiling, salted water. 
Drain, and break up lightly with a fork. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
in chafing dish ; add roe, the yolks of two "hard-boiled" eggs, mashed 
fine, one cupful grated bread crumbs, Yz cupful cream, a little chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Stir constantly until well-mixed, and add one 
tablespoonful lemon juice just before serving. 

FRIED SHAD ROE. 
Wash and parboil the roe. When cold, season with pepper and 
salt ; dip in crumbs, beaten egg, again in crumbs, and fry until golden 
brown in hot butter or fat. Remove to hot platter, and garnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon. 

FRIED SCALLOPS. 
Clean scallops and cover with boiling water ; let stand 3 minutes ; 
drain, dry between towels and follow recipe for Fried Oysters, (page 48). 
Serve with Tartare Sauce. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SHRIMPS. 
Peel large ripe tomatoes. Remove thin slices from top of each 
and set aside to cover tomatoes again. Scoop out seeds and pulp. Chop 
fine one small onion and fry in 2 tablespoonfuls butter until light brown ; 
add a slice of soaked bread, squeezed dry. Season with salt, paprika 
and a little sugar. Add one small can shrimps, or y 2 pint fresh shrimps, 
chopped fine. Fill tomatoes with mixture, cover with the slices cut 
from tops, put in a baking pan, add a little water and bake until brown. 
Serve with Tomato Sauce. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 
Melt %. cupful butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour ; when well mixed 
add gradually 1 cupful scalded milk; then % cupful grated cheese, salt 
and cayenne pepper to taste. Remove from fire ; add 4 well-beaten yolks. 
When mixture is cool, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the 4 eggs. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish and bake in slow oven until set 
like a custard. (About 20 minutes.) 

CHICKEN OR MEAT SOUFFLE. 
To one cupful White Sauce add one cupful chopped meat or chicken ; 
stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
then the beaten whites of the 2 eggs. Bake in buttered dish in a moder- 
ate oven one-half hour. Serve at once. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 51 

SWEETBREADS. 
Sweetbreads spoil very quickly so as soon as they come from the 
market they should be plunged into cold water. After soaking 1 hour, 
drain, then cook in salted, boiling water about 20 minutes or until thor- 
oughly done ; again drain and plunge for a few minutes in cold water. 
Remove carefully the skin and rough parts and put in cool place until 
ready to cook again. 

SWEETBREAD SOUFFLE. 
Parboil and chop fine two pairs of sweetbreads ; season with pepper, 
nutmeg, salt, chopped parsley and a little grated onion. Soak until 
soft about 3 slices of white bread in enough milk to cover. (Use 
judgment as to amount of bread so the souffle does not get stiff). 
Squeeze dry and mix with sweetbreads; add yolks of five eggs. Heat 
y 2 cupful butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, cook until light brown 
then add the mixture and the beaten whites of the 5 eggs. Put in 
buttered mould and steam one hour. Serve with rich Cream Sauce. 

BROILED SWEETBREAD. 
Parboil sweetbread, cut crosswise in halves and broil 5 minutes. 
Place on a hot platter, sprinkle with chopped parsley, season with salt 
and pepper and pour over it hot melted butter. 

CREAMED SWEETBREAD. 
Parboil sweetbread and cut in pieces. Heat one tablespoonful 
butter ; add one heaping tablespoonful flour ; when smooth add gradually 
one cupful cream, stirring constantly until it boils. Add sweetbread 
and one small can mushrooms. Season with salt, pepper and a little 
mace or Sherry wine. 

FRIED SWEETBREAD. 
Parboil sweetbread, cut crosswise in halves, season with pepper and 
salt, dip first in beaten egg, then in crumbs and fry in boiling fat, or saute 
in butter or chicken fat. Serve with Cream Sauce or with green peas. 

MOCK SWEETBREADS. 
Chop fine two pounds raw veal, (removing stringy or hard parts,) 
and *4 pound veal suet. Soak a large roll in milk, beat lightly and 
mix with the veal. Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg and a little grated 
lemon peel; add 1 tablespoonful melted butter and 2 well-beaten eggs. 
Shape mixture like sweetbreads, dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs 
and fry until a golden brown. Place in the center of a hot platter, with 
a border of peas around them and cover with a rich Cream Sauce. 

SWEETBREADS WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 
Parboil a large sweetbread and cut in pieces. Melt one tablespoon- 
ful butter in a saucepan, stir in one large tablespoonful flour; cook 
well, then add one cupful heated cream and the heated liquor from a 
can of asparagus. Stir until thick and add yolks of 2 eggs ; season 
with salt, paprika and a little nutmeg. Add the sweetbread and tips 
of asparagus ; cook a few minutes and serve very hot. 



52 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. 
Boil chicken until tender. Skin, bone, and chop very fine. Add a 
small can of mushrooms chopped fine. Cream yolks of 3 eggs with one 
tablespoonful butter; add \y 2 cupfuls cream and season with salt, pepper 
and mace. Mix with the chicken and mushrooms and add beaten whites 
of the 3 eggs. Fill well-buttered moulds, put in pan half-filled with 
hot water, cover and bake about one-half hour. Serve with Cream 
Sauce to which has been added the liquor drained from the mushrooms. 

MACARONI TIMBALES. 
Cook macaroni in salted, boiling water until tender enough to cut. 
Strain and pour cold water over it. Line bottom of buttered mold with 
macaroni. Cut strips of macaroni the length of mold and place length- 
wise closely together around inside of mold. (Use knitting needle to do 
this.) Put through a meat chopper the breast and best part of the 
legs of a large raw chicken. Soak until soft a large slice of bread in 
one cupful cream, and mix with chicken. Add % pound butter, and the 
yolks of 3 eggs. Season with nutmeg, pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly, 
fill center of mold, cover and steam two hours or more. Turn on hot 
platter. Serve with hot Cream Sauce poured around, and garnish 
with parsley. 

MEAT TIMBALES. 
Melt one even tablespoonful butter ; add two cupfuls finely chopped 
meat, the beaten yolks of two eggs, two drops Tabasco Sauce, one tea- 
spoonful finely chopped parsley, ]/ 2 teaspoonful chopped onion, a little 
salt and pepper and Y / 2 cupful soup stock or cream. Mix well, then 
add juice of ]/ 2 lemon and the beaten white of one egg. Fill six buttered 
timbale cups, put in a pan half-filled with hot water and bake twenty 
minutes. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. NO. 1. 
Rub to a paste 6 boned anchovies, 1 tablespoonful butter, the yolks 
of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, a little curry powder, paprika and 1 teaspoonful 
lemon juice. Spread mixture on hot buttered toast and heat thoroughly 
in oven. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. NO. 2. 
Slightly brown one tablespoonful butter, add one heaping table- 
spoonful flour; cook for a few minutes, then add one cupful soup stock. 
Stir until thick; add 2 tablespoonfuls chopped olives, 1 tablespoonful 
chopped green pepper, 1 teaspoonful chopped celery. Cook 5 minutes. 
Spread Canapes, (page 27) with anchovy paste and pour sauce over. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 53 

HAM TOAST. 
Chop y 2 pound lean ham, add yolks of three eggs, well beaten, 1 
ounce butter, 3 tablespoonfuls cream and a little red pepper. Stir over 
fire until thick. Spread on thin slices of buttered toast and garnish with 
parsley. Serve hot. 

BROILED OYSTERS ON TOAST. 
Dry oysters, place in greased wire broiler and broil over a clear 
fire, turning while broiling. Have ready on a platter, slices of hot 
buttered toast, and on each slice put 6 oysters covered well with melted 
butter. Season with pepper and salt, garnish with slices of lemon and 
sprays of parsley. 

CREAMED OYSTERS ON TOAST. 
Put a pint of oysters in kettle, bring to boiling point, skim and 
drain. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls flour, mix 
until smooth; add 1 pint cream or rich milk and stir constantly until 
thick. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add oysters ; when hot 
pour over slices of buttered toast. 

SARDINES AND PEAS ON TOAST. 
Drain one box sardines, and remove skin and bones. Cut fish in 
small pieces. Add 1 cupful cooked peas and 3 tablespoonfuls catsup. 
Heat to boiling point and serve hot on buttered toast. 

SPANISH TOAST (FOR SIX PEOPLE). 
Fry one tablespoonful chopped onion in one tablespoonful butter 
until light brown ; add 1 tablespoonful tomatoes, one-half green pepper, 
chopped fine, one-half can mushrooms. Flavor with paprika, and salt 
and cook 5 minutes. Cover slices of buttered toast with boned anchovies ; 
pour mixture over; sprinkle one teaspoonful grated cheese on each 
slice and bake in oven ten minutes. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

FISH. 

CODFISH BALLS. 
Cover with boiling water 2 cupfuls picked codfish and 2 cupfuls raw 
potatoes, cut in pieces, and cook until potatoes are soft. Drain, return 
to kettle in which they were cooked, and mash thoroughly. Season with 
pepper, and if necessary a little salt ; add 4 tablespoonfuls cream or rich 
milk and 1 tablespoonful butter. Beat well with a fork until light, form 
into flat cakes, dip first in egg, then in crumbs, and fry in hot fat or oil. 

CUBAN FISH. 
Wash, slice and salt 3 pounds salmon and let stand a few hours. 
Cook until done. Put 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil in stewing pan, when 
hot, add 1 clove of garlic, cut fine ; stir in a heaping tablespoonful flour ; 
when brown, add 1 sliced onion, x / 2 pint can of tomatoes. Season with 
thyme, parsley, a bay leaf, pepper and salt ; add one cupful Claret wine 
and y 2 cupful water. Cover and cook 15 minutes, then pour sauce over 
fish. Serve hot or cold. 

CREAMED SALT CODFISH. 
Soak one pound codfish in luke-warm water for several hours. 
Drain, pick in small pieces, cover with cold water and bring very slowly 
to boiling point, but be sure that it does not boil. Again drain. Heat 

2 tablespoonfuls butter in a saucepan, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour; mix 
until smooth. Add 1 quart rich milk, or cream, stirring constantly until 
mixture thickens, then add codfish. Season with pepper, butter, the size 
of a walnut, and if necessary, a little salt, and just before serving add 
yolks of 2 eggs. Serve very hot. 

FRIED FISH. 
Follow recipe for Fried Halibut, (page 57) fry in deep hot oil in- 
stead of in butter, and garnish with parsley. Serve cold. 

FISH A LA BRUNSWICK. 
Wash fish, sprinkle with salt and let stand several hours. Boil 
fish (whole) in water seasoned well with onion, celery, parsley, pepper, 
salt and one cupful vinegar. When done remove to hot platter. Mash 

3 "hard-boiled" eggs, add one teaspoonful mustard, the juice of 2 lemons 
and one cupful cream. Stir until smooth. Add some of the liquor in 
which fish was cooked. Season with paprika and sugar to taste and add 
to the beaten yolks of 3 raw eggs. Heat thoroughly and stir constantly 
so mixture will not curdle. Chop some celery, two or three sweet 
pickles, the whites of 3 "hard-boiled" eggs and a little parsley and heat 
in the sauce. Pour half of the sauce over fish, serve the remainder in 
gravy boat. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 55 

BAKED FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Wash and salt fish and let stand a few hours. Stuff same as 
Baked Shad, (page 56) cover with plenty of butter, pour ]/ 2 cupful water 
in pan and bake 15 minutes in very hot oven, basting frequently. Then 
cover fish with 1 pint strained tomatoes, season with pepper, salt, sugar 
and a little ginger and bake more slowly until fish is done, which is 
when the flesh separates easily from the bone. Remove fish to hot 
platter, pour gravy over it and garnish with parsley. 

LEMON STEWED FISH. 
Wash and salt four pounds sliced salmcn trout or halibut and let 
stand several hours. Chop 2 medium-sized onions, fry until light brown 
in 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add 3 cupfuls water and Ya cupful vinegar. 
Season with salt, cayenne pepper, ginger and nutmeg. Add fish and 
cook slowly until done. Remove to hot platter, and sprinkle with parsley. 
Mix well together juice of 3 lemons and yolks of 4 eggs ; strain slowly 
into it the fish gravy ; add finely chopped parsley and if necessary, more 
seasoning. Heat to boiling point, stirring constantly, then pour over 
fish. Garnish with parsley. Serve cold. 

"SHARFE" FISH. 

Wash and salt slices of yellow pike, partially cover with water, 
season with salt, pepper, onion, celery and a piece of butter size of a 
nut, and cook slowly until done, which is when the flesh separates 
easily from the bone. Remove to platter. Beat yolks of 2 eggs ; add 1 
cupful milk, then strain fish gravy into this, put on back of range and 
stir for a few minutes. Add a teaspoonful sugar, a little nutmeg and 
chopped parsley and pour over the fish. Garnish with parsley. Serve 
hot. 

SWEET AND SOUR FISH. NO. 1. 

Wash, slice and salt fish and let stand several hours. Heat to boil- 
ing point \ l / 2 cupfuls vinegar, ^ cupful water, ^ cupful sugar, 1 lemon, 
sliced, a few cloves, 2 bay leaves and 1 large onion, sliced. Add fish, 
cover, and cook 20 minutes, or until fish is done. Remove fish to 
platter. Add to liquor two teaspoonfuls flour dissolved in a little 
water. Cook a few minutes, then strain liquor slowly into 3 well-beaten 
yolks of eggs, stirring constantly until mixture comes to a boil, then 
pour over fish. Serve cold. 

SWEET AND SOUR FISH. NO. 2. 
Wash, slice and salt a 3 pound fish and let stand several hours. 
Heat to boiling point 2 cupfuls water, l / 2 cupful vinegar, l / 2 onion 
chopped, y 2 stalk celery, chopped, a handful raisins and about 1 dozen 
chopped almonds. Season with pepper, salt, ginger, nutmeg and l / 2 
cupful sugar. Add fish, cook until done, then romove to platter. 
Beat yolks of 3 eggs, add gradually juice of 2 lemons, pour fish gravy 
slowly into this, return sauce to range and stir until mixture thickens. 
Pour over fish. Serve cold. 



56 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

SWEET AND SOUR FISH WITH BROWN SAUCE. 
Slice and salt fish (trout or halibut is best) and let stand three 
hours. Heat 3 cupfuls water, 24 cupful vinegar, 1 onion sliced thin, 
y 2 lemon sliced, y 2 cupful raisins, 3 bay leaves and a few cloves. Season 
with pepper, salt, ginger and about y cupful brown sugar. Add fish 
and cook until done, then remove to platter. Roll until fine 2 or 3 
molasses cakes or leb kuchen ; dissolve in a little water, add to fish liquor, 
stir until thick and pour over fish. Serve cold. 

FISH A LA WINE. 
Wash and salt fish and let stand a few hours. Put in a buttered pan, 
cover fish with small oysters, shrimps, mushrooms and chopped parsley, 
then with white wine and water, and cook slowly in oven until partly 
done. Mix together one heaping tablespoonful butter and one table- 
spoonful flour, add beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Pour liquor from fish into 
this and stir until smooth. If too thick, add more wine and water, then 
pour over fish and bake until fish is done. Serve hot. 

BOILED HADDOCK, OR TROUT. 
Wash and salt a 4 pound haddock or trout and let stand several 
hours. Place fish whole in fish kettle, cover with cold water, seasoned 
same as for Boiled Halibut with Butter Sauce and cook slowly y 2 hour. 
Drain, remove to hot platter, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 
Serve with Drawn Butter or Hollandaise Sauce. 

BOILED HALIBUT WITH BUTTER SAUCE. 
Wash and salt slices of halibut and let stand a few hours. Heat 
to boiling point about 1 quart cold water, to which has been added y 2 
cupful vinegar, a small carrot, a few slices of onion, a little celery and 
parsley and 2 bay leaves. Season with pepper, salt and ginger. Add 
fish and cook about 15 minutes, or until fish separates from bone. Re- 
move fish to hot platter, pour over it plenty of hot, melted butter and 
sprinkle with parsley, chopped fine. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL. 
Soak mackerel 24 hours. Wash in fresh water, dry and place 
flesh side up on greased broiler in hot gas oven. When brown, turn flame 
low and cook fish about 15 minutes longer, or until done. Remove to 
hot platter, season with pepper and spread with plenty of butter. Gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 
Soak fish over night in enough cold water to cover it. Wash well 
in fresh water . Place in kettle, and cover with cold water. Cook about 
20 minutes or until fish is done. Remove to hot platter and pour over it 
hot melted butter. 

BAKED SHAD. 
Wash and salt fish and let stand for several hours. Make a 
dressing of one cupful grated bread steeped in milk, one tablespoon- 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 57 

ful melted butter, one egg, salt, pepper and parsley. Mix well to- 
gether. Stuff and sew fish, put in a baking pan, cover with plenty of 
butter, add one cupful water to keep it from burning and cook in hot 
oven, basting frequently with melted butter. When fish is well- 
browned, cool oven and cook more slowly until fish is done. (Allow 
15 minutes for each pound of fish.) Remove to hot platter and cover 
while preparing sauce. Add to liquor in baking pan 1 tablespoon- 
ful catsup, 1 tablespoonful browned flour which has been mixed with 
cold water, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 wineglassful Sherry wine, 1 scant 
tablespoonful currant jelly and 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire Sauce. 
Heat to boiling point, stirring constantly. Serve in gravy boat. 

BROILED WHITE FISH OR SHAD. 
Split a 3 pound fish down the back and remove bone. Wash, salt 
and put in cool place until ready to cook. Then place fish, flesh side 
up, on greased broiler, in hot gas oven, one inch from flame, and broil 
10 minutes or until fish is golden brown; then turn flame very low 
and cook fish slowly about 15 minutes longer. Remove to hot platter, 
spread with butter, season with salt and pepper and garnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon. 

PLANKED WHITE FISH OR SHAD. 
Oil plank and put in slow oven for 1 hour. Wash and split fish, 
season with salt and let stand while plank is heating. Put fish, skin 
side down, on plank in hot oven, brush with butter and bake about 
20 minutes or until light brown, basting frequently with melted butter. 
Check heat in oven and cook 10 minutes longer. Prepare Mashed Pota- 
toes, according to recipe and ten minutes before fish is done, arrange 
potatoes around fish and brush with white of egg. After removing 
from oven, season fish with butter, pepper and salt. Serve on plank. 
Garnish with watercress, radishes and slices of lemon. 

BROILED SMELTS. 
Wash large smelts, split them down the back, clean and remove 
backbone, or if smelts are small leave them whole. Sprinkle with salt and 
let stand several hours ; wipe dry, then put on greased broiler, under the 
flame, in hot gas oven, and brown slowly on both sides. Arrange on but- 
tered toast and pour melted butter over each fish. Season with pepper 
and salt, garnish with watercress and serve with Tartare Sauce. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

Wash large smelts, season with salt and place in a cool place for 
two hours. Wipe dry, dip first in beaten egg, then in bread or cracker 
crumbs and fry in hot butter or oil. Garnish with parsley and serve with 
Tartare Sauce. Serve hot or cold. All small fish are fried in the same 
way. 

FRIED HALIBUT OR TROUT. 

Wash and salt slices of fish about }4 inch thick and let stand a 
few hours. Wipe dry, dip in crumbs or flour, then in beaten egg, 
and fry until golden brown in hot butter or oil. Serve hot or cold. 



58 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

BOILED TROUT WITH MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Cook according to recipe for Boiled Fish. Remove to platter, gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon. Serve cold with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

TROUT WITH BOILED DRESSING. 
Wash and slice trout, sprinkle with salt and let stand several 
hours. Cook in water seasoned with onion, sliced lemon, celery, pars- 
ley, whole peppers, bay leaves and butter size of walnut. When done 
remove to platter. Chop 3 tablespoonfuls chow-chow, 2 "hard-boiled" 
eggs, 1 small onion, a little parsley, celery, lemon rind, some almonds, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls capers and mix with Boiled Dressing which has 
been thinned with cream. Season with catsup, a little white pepper, 
salt and dry mustard. Pour over fish and serve cold. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

MEAT. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS. 

Broil a steak, season with pepper and salt, spread with butter and 
place on platter in oven. Slice onions thin, fry in hot fat until brown, 
stirring frequently. Season with salt and pepper ; add a little hot water, 
and let simmer slowly about one-half hour or until the water has en- 
tirely evaporated. Pour onions over and around steak, and serve im- 
mediately. 

FRIED BRAINS. 

Soak brains one hour in cold water, remove membrane and cook 
brains 15 minutes in boiling salted water, to which has been added 1 
tablespoonful vinegar. Remove from range and put in cold water. 
When cold, dry, cut in pieces about the size of an oyster, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dip in egg and crumbs and saute in a little hot butter, 
or fry in deep boiling fat or lard. Serve with Tomato Sauce. 

SWEET AND SOUR BRAINS. 

Prepare brains same as for Fried Brains. Pour in a stewing-pan % 
cupful vinegar and one cupful water, add one bay leaf, % onion and y 2 
lemon, sliced thin, a few cloves and raisins. Season to taste with pepper, 
salt, ginger and brown sugar. Heat slowly to boiling point, add brains, 
cook until tender, then remove to platter. Roll one molasses cooky until 
fine, dissolve in a little water and add to sauce. Cook until thick, then 
pour over brains. 

BEEFSTEAK EN CASSEROLE. 

Broil about fifteen minutes a club steak weighing four pounds; 
put in a pan and spread with plenty of butter or marrow. Place on 
top y 2 green pepper cut in small pieces, a few slices of fresh tomatoes 
or 1 cupful canned tomatoes and cook in oven about fifteen minutes. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper, remove to hot platter and arrange around it a 
border consisting of fried potato balls, sauted fresh mushrooms, small 
fried onions, and if desired, other vegetables, (carrots cut into dice and 
cooked, string beans or peas.) Add to steak gravy, one tablespoonful 
Worcestershire sauce, two tablespoonfuls catsup, two tablespoonfuls 
Sherry wine, a little chopped celery and parsley, and pour over steak. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 
Wipe steak and trim off superfluous fat. Place on a greased and 
heated broiler over a clear fire, turning frequently. If the steak is three 
quarters of an inch thick, broil about eight minutes. Remove to hot 
platter, season with salt and pepper, and spread with butter. Serve 
plain or with Bordelaise Sauce. 



60 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

PAN-BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 
Wipe steak and put in a very hot frying pan, without fat. Turn 
frequently until brown, then cook more slowly until done. Steak one 
inch thick will cook in about 20 minutes. Season with pepper and salt, 
spread with butter, and serve on hot platter. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. 
Prepare as for Beef Loaf, shape in flat cakes, and fry in butter until 
brown on both sides. Remove to platter and pour over them butter 
from pan. Serve with Tomato Sauce. 

BEEF LOAF. 
Put through meat-chopper 2 pounds raw beef, add Yz onion, 
chopped fine and fried in butter, 2 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, one 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, 2 well-beaten eggs, and one-half cupful 
bread crumbs moistened with sweet cream. Season with one teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice, a little salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg and celery salt, 
and shape into oblong loaf, dredging well with flour. Put in a greased 
baking pan, dot with bits of butter and bake in a slow oven, basting 
frequently. Serve hot or cold. If hot, serve with Tomato Sauce. 

VEAL LOAF. 
Prepare as for Beef Loaf using veal instead of beef. 

BOILED BRISKET OF BEEF. 
Use the same cut as for Pot Roast, (page 63). Season well and boil 
slowly and steadily until tender. Serve with Horse-radish Sauce. The 
water that meat is cooked in, may be used for soup stock. 

BRISKET OF BEEF WITH SAUERKRAUT. 
Wipe five pounds brisket, season well with salt, pepper and ginger, 
and let stand over night. Cover with boiling water and cook slowly 
about 2 hours ; then wash 3 pints sauerkraut and add to meat ; also add 
one apple. Place kettle in oven, and cook two hours longer or until meat 
is tender.' (There is no unpleasant odor when sauerkraut is cooked in 
the oven.) Remove meat to platter and add to the sauerkraut about 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful flour dissolved in a little water, 
and if necessary, more pepper and salt. 

STEWED FILLET OF BEEF. 
Chop one onion and fry brown in 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Cut a 
small fillet of beef in pieces one inch thick; add to onion and brown on 
both sides, then add y 2 pint soup stock or water, one sliced carrot, a few 
stalks of celery, a few cloves, and one bay leaf. Season with pepper, 
salt and mace. Cook slowly one hour. Just before serving, remove 
meat to a platter, strain stock, thicken it, add two tablespoonfuls Sherry 
wine and pour over the fillet. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 
Wipe leg of mutton and put in salted boiling water. Cook slowly 
and steadily until meat is tender, allowing fifteen minutes or more for 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 61 

each pound of meat. Remove to platter, garnish with parsley, and serve 
with Caper Sauce. 

CAPER SAUCE. 
Heat two tablespoonf uls butter, add one large tablespoonful flour ; 
stir until smooth; add slowly one cupful boiling water. Season with 
pepper and salt and stir until thick ; add 2 tablespoonfuls French capers. 
Remove from fire and add juice of one-half lemon. 

CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

Wipe meat, cover with cold water, and heat slowly to boiling point. 
Cook slowly and steadily until tender. Remove outside leaves from 
cabbage, cut in quarters and remove tough stalk. About one and one- 
half hours before meat is done, add cabbage and if desired, a few 
sliced carrots. Serve meat on hot platter with cabbage and carrots 
around it. 

CALF'S HEART. 

Wash a calf's heart, remove veins and arteries. Stuff heart with sage, 
chopped onions and bread crumbs, sprinkle with pepper, salt and ginger, 
put in a hot pan with some drippings, and bake until brown ; then add 
a little soup stock or water, (just enough to prevent burning) and cook 
slowly in a moderate oven, until tender, basting frequently. 

BRAISED CALF'S LIVER. 
Put a larded liver, in a baking pan ; add 1 small onion, 1 small car- 
rot sliced, 2 stalks of celery cut in pieces, 1 bay leaf and 1 pint soup 
stock. Season with salt and pepper. Cover and bake in moderate oven 
about 2 hours. Remove to hot platter. Strain gravy, thicken it, season 
with Worcestershire sauce and catsup, and pour over liver. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. 
Remove rind from y 2 pound thinly sliced bacon and fry slices in 
hot spider until crisp and brown. Place on platter in oven. Scald thin 
slices of liver, drain and dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour and cook slowly in the hot bacon fat until brown and tender. 
Arrange around bacon. 

CALF'S LIVER AND ONIONS. 
Cut one pound liver in slices, scald and dry. Season with 
salt and pepper, dredge with flour and fry slowly in hot fat, (poultry 
fat if you have it) until light brown. Remove to hot platter. Cut three 
or more onions in thin slices, and cook in the hot fat until light brown, 
season with salt and pepper, add one-half cupful hot water and let sim- 
mer for about 15 minutes, then pour over liver. 

CALF'S FEET STEW WITH MEAT BALLS. 
Wash, dry and chop four calf's feet and cook two hours in one 
quart of water ; then add a veal shank cut in pieces. Season with pepper, 
salt, ginger and one onion sliced fine, and boil slowly two hours longer. 
(If the water boils away, add a little more). Add Meat Balls, (page 62) 
one hour before serving. Serve with Boiled Rice. 



62 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

MEAT BALLS. 
Soak and press dry one thick slice of bread. Mix with it one-half 
pound chopped meat, one egg and a little chopped parsley. Season 
with pepper, salt, ginger and a small piece of onion cut fine and fried 
in butter. Shape in small balls and add to stew about one hour before 
serving. 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS. 

Wipe chops, place on greased broiler and broil over a clear fire, 
turning frequently. When done, remove to hot platter, and season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Decorate the end of each bone with a paper 
ruffle and place a mound of peas in center of platter. 

PAN BROILED LAMB OR VEAL CHOPS. 
Wipe chops, put in very hot frying pan (ungreased) over a hot 
fire, and brown on both sides, turning frequently, then cook more slowly 
until done. Season with pepper, salt and butter and serve very hot. 
Tomato Sauce is served with veal chops, and peas with lamb chops. 

PORK CHOPS. 
Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper and fry slowly in very 
hot spider, until tender and well browned on both sides. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
Put in a baking pan a larded fillet weighing 4 pounds ; add 1 small 
onion, 1 small carrot sliced, 2 stalks of celery cut in pieces, a few cloves 
and bay leaves. Season with pepper and salt, and spread fillet with 
butter or marrow. Pour into the pan y 2 cupful soup stock or water. Bake 
y 2 hour in a quick oven, basting occasionally. Remove to hot platter. 
Add to pan one tablespoonful butter, brown, then add 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour; mix thoroughly; add one pint soup stock. Strain, then heat 
slowly to boiling point, stirring constantly. Add one-half pound fresh 
or one small can of mushrooms. Cook a few minutes, then remove 
from range, and add 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, 1 tablespoonful 
Sherry wine, a little nutmeg, and if necessary, more pepper and salt. 
Pour sauce around fillet and serve at once. 

GULASH. 
Heat in a kettle one tablespoonful goose or duck fat or left-over 
poultry gravy. When it bubbles, add one onion cut in long thin strips 
and fry until brown. Cut in two inch squares a piece of beef (either 
plate or flank,) wash and put in the kettle. Season with salt and one 
scant tablespoonful paprika, cover closely and cook slowly until meat 
is almost tender; (if necessary add a little water to keep from burning) 
then add potatoes, cut in good-sized pieces; partly cover with boiling 
water, again cover closely and cook until potatoes are done. Serve on 
platter. 

BAKED HAM. 

Season and cook as for Boiled Ham, (page 63) and when almost 
tender remove kettle from range and leave ham in water until nearly 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 63 

cold ; then peel off skin, rub ham with brown sugar, stud with cloves, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, place in double roaster, pour over the top 
one wineglassful Sherry wine and one cupful soup stock, and bake in a 
hot oven until brown and tender. 

BROILED HAM. 
Place thin slices of ham on a hot broiler and broil over a clear fire 
until brown on both sides. Remove to hot platter, season with pepper, 
spread lightly with butter, garnish with parsley and serve at once. 

BOILED HAM. 
Wash well a ham weighing about nine pounds, put in a large kettle, 
cover with cold water, season with one onion, two bay leaves and a few 
cloves, heat gradually to boiling point, then cook slowly from 5 to 6 hours 
or until very tender. When done, remove kettle from range and leave 
ham in water until nearly cold, then peel off skin. Slice very thin and 
garnish with parsley. 

HAMBURG STEAKS. 

Chop very fine 2 pounds round steak, season with salt, pepper and 
a little onion juice. Form into small, round cakes. (Above quantity 
will make 14 cakes.) Heat about 2 tablespoonfuls butter or fat in a pan, 
and fry cakes until brown on both sides. Remove to hot platter, and 
pour over them the fat in which they were cooked. Garnish with 
parsley and a few slices of lemon. If preferred they may be broiled 
on greased broiler or in pan, seasoned with salt and pepper, and spread 
with butter. 

PLANKED STEAK. 

Grease plank and put in slow oven for 1 hour. While plank is 
heating prepare and cook vegetables. Pare potatoes, and scrape carrots, 
and shape into balls with a vegetable cutter. Boil in separate kettles 
until tender. Peel small onions, boil until tender, drain and fry. Cook 
1 can peas, y 2 pound fresh green beans or 1 can of beans, and season well. 
Pan broil a thick porterhouse steak 5 minutes on each side, then place 
on plank in oven and cook about 20 minutes longer. Wash and peel y 2 
pound large fresh mushrooms and place on top of steak and just before 
removing plank from oven spread butter or marrow over top of steak 
and season with salt and pepper. Arrange cooked vegetables around 
steak, garnish with watercress, and serve immediately. 

POT ROAST WITH BROWN OR HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Take about 5 pounds brisket of beef not very fat, and without 
the bone, or use the shoulder of beef. Season well with salt, pepper 
and ginger and let stand for three or four hours. Put in a hot kettle 
and brown quickly on both sides. Slice 1 onion, 1 carrot, a little celery, 
and 2 large tomatoes or J^ can of tomatoes and place on top of meat. 
Add about 1 pint boiling water, cover tightly and cook slowly about 
three hours or until meat is tender. Remove to hot platter. Add one 
tablespoonful flour to the kettle, stir until smooth and if necessary, add 



64 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

a little more water or soup stock. Heat to boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly. Strain, add chopped parsley, and season to taste. Serve sauce 
in gravy boat. If desired 3 tablespoon fuls horse-radish may be added 
to sauce. 

PORK AND BEANS. 
Wash and soak one quart pea beans in cold water over night. 
Drain, put in kettle with cold water, and heat to boiling point. Drain 
again and cover with boiling water. Scald rind of one pound fat salt 
pork, cut through rind every one-half inch, making cuts one inch deep, 
and put pork with the beans. Cook slowly until the skins of beans 
burst, then remove the pork, drain beans and put them in an earthen 
pot, placing pork in the center. Strain about one pint of the water 
in which the beans were boiled, season with salt and pepper and two 
tablespoonfuls molasses, and pour over top. Bake in a very moderate 
oven from 6 to 8 hours, removing cover y 2 hour before taking from 
oven, to allow the pork to become crisp and brown. If desired, \y 2 lbs. 
brisket of beef may be substituted for the pork. 

ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, STUFFED. 
Stuff a five pound breast of veal with Bread Dressing. Season 
well with salt, pepper and ginger. Heat some fat in roasting pan, put 
in veal and cook in hot oven until brown and crisp, basting frequently. 
When brown, add one cupful hot water, cover, and cook until tender. If 
desired a few slices of onion may be placed on top of veal. Serve with 
Gravy, (page 65). 

ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
Wipe a rib roast (2nd and 3rd ribs are best), rub well with salt, 
pepper and ginger and let stand a few hours before cooking. Heat one 
tablespoonful fat in pan, put in meat and place in a hot oven, that the 
surface may be quickly browned, which will prevent the juice from 
escaping; then reduce the heat and cook more slowly, basting every ten 
minutes until meat is done ; allowing 1 %. hours for a 6 pound roast. 
Serve with Gravy, (page 65). 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
Put in a bowl \y 2 cupfuls flour and 54 teaspoonful salt, add gradu- 
ally \ l / 2 cupfuls milk; stir until smooth. Beat 2 eggs until very light, 
add to flour and stir with Dover egg-beater until very light. Cover 
bottom of hot pan with fat, pour in mixture and bake 20 minutes in hot 
oven. Cut in squares and serve on same platter with roast beef. 

ROAST LEG OF PORK WITH APPLE SAUCE. 
Wipe a leg of pork weighing about six pounds, season with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour and place in a hot roasting pan. Add y 2 
cupful boiling water and cook in a hot oven, basting frequently, until 
meat is well browned on both sides. Then check the heat and cook 
more slowly, continuing to baste every 15 minutes, until meat is tender. 
(Pork should always be thoroughly cooked.) Garnish with parsley,, 
and serve with Apple Sauce. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 65 

GRAVY. 
Pour off all fat except 2 tablespoonfuls, to which add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. Brown well, then add 2 cupfuls boiling water, stirring 
constantly until mixture boils. Season with salt and pepper, and if 
desired a tablespoonful Tomato Catsup. Strain, add 1 tablespoonful 
chopped parsley and serve in a gravy boat. 

ROAST LAMB. 
Prepare and cook same as Roast Breast of Veal, (page 64) with or 
without dressing. Serve with Gravy or Mint Sauce. 

ROAST MUTTON. 
Prepare and cook same as Roast Lamb. Serve with Currant or 
Cranberry Jelly. 

ROAST VENISON. 

Prepare and cook same as Roast Breast of Veal, (page 64) allowing 
less time that it may be cooked rare. Serve with Brown Gravy and 
Currant Jelly. 

BOILED SMOKED SAUSAGE. 

Pour boiling water over rings of sausage and cook 20 minutes. 
Vienna sausages require only 10 minutes for cooking. Serve hot with 
Potato Salad. (Page 102). 

FRIED BOLOGNA SAUSAGE. 
Slice thin and remove skin from sausage, and fry in hot greased 
spider until brown on both sides. 

HOME MADE BREAKFAST SAUSAGE. 
Season 2 pounds of finely chopped lean pork or beef with 1 table- 
spoonful powdered sage, 1 teaspoonful thyme, 1 teaspoonful mar- 
joram ; salt and pepper to taste. Drop by tablespoonfuls into a hot 
greased spider and brown on both sides. Do not grease spider if pork 
is used. 

LIVER SAUSAGE. 

Cover sausage with cold water and heat gradually to boiling point. 
Remove from water, being careful not to break them, and put in frying 
pan in warm fat (not hot or sausage will burst.) Cover, and fry until 
brown on both sides. Serve hot. 

PORK SAUSAGES. 
Prick sausages with a fork to prevent bursting; put in hot frying 
pan over moderate fire and cook until brown on both sides. 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 
Wipe four pounds beef or veal and season well with ginger, pepper 
and salt. Put 2 heaping tablespoonfuls fat in a deep kettle, add a small 
onion cut fine, and the meat and brown quickly on both sides. Add one- 
half cupful water. Cover air tight and cook slowly one hour; then add 
1 quart string beans cut lengthwise, or 1 can of beans, 1 quart to- 
matoes and y 2 green pepper, sliced. Cook slowly until tender, then re- 
move to platter and pour vegetables over meat. 



66 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

INDIAN CURRY STEW. 

Wipe four pounds lamb chops, roll in flour and fry until brown, then 
put in kettle. Cut in small pieces and fry one onion, one carrot and 
one turnip. Cut fine 1 banana, 1 apple, the peel of %. of a lemon. 
Add to meat. Cover with \y 2 pints soup stock or water; season with 
salt, pepper and 2 tablespoonfuls Chili Sauce and cook slowly about 1^2 
hours or until tender. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls curry powder and 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, dilute with a little water and add to stew just before 
serving. Serve with a border of rice. 

IRISH STEW. 

Wipe four pounds shoulder of lamb or beef ; cut in pieces, and 
season with salt, pepper and ginger. Put in kettle and cover with 
boiling water. Cut in slices, and add one onion and two carrots. Cook 
slowly 2 hours, then add as many peeled potatoes as required, one pint 
canned or five fresh tomatoes, one green pepper cut in small pieces, and 
cook slowly 24 hour longer. Thicken with a little flour, and add one 
tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

BOILED BEEF'S TONGUE. 

Wash smoked or pickled tongue and put in kettle, cover with cold 
water and boil slowly about four hours or until tongue is very tender. 
If water boils away, add boiling water. When done, let stand until cold 
in water in which it was boiled. Remove skin and serve cold cut in very 
thin slices and garnished with parsley. Tongue may be left whole, 
garnished with parsley, and served hot with Currant Jelly. 

SWEET AND SOUR TONGUE. 
Put a fresh tongue in brine for one or two days, then cook until 
tender. Remove the skin and cut tongue in slices. Pour into a sauce-pan 
about 4 cupfuls of the water in which tongue was cooked ; add l /i cupful 
of vinegar, 2 small onions, sliced, l /i cupful raisins, 1 lemon, sliced, a 
scant Y\ cupful brown sugar, a little cayenne pepper, salt, ginger, one tea- 
spoonful allspice, a few bay leaves, and, if desired, 24 cupful boiled 
cider. Thicken sauce with leb kuchen or molasses cakes, rolled fine and 
dissolved in a little water. Add the slices of tongue and let simmer for a 
short time before serving. 

STEWED CALVES' TONGUES. 
Three calves' tongues, 4 sets of brains, or 2 sets brains and 1 pound 
sweetbread. One can mushrooms. Boil tongues until tender with onion, 
carrots and spices. Clean, and boil sweetbread until tender. Parboil 
the brains. Slice the tongue and cut the sweetbread and brains into 
pieces. 

SAUCE. 

Fry one onion (chopped fine) in one tablespoonful butter; add one 
tablespoonful flour; stir until smooth; add one cupful of the water in 
which the tongues were boiled, 2 tablespoonfuls catsup, 1 teaspoonful 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 67 

Worcestershire sauce. 1 tablespoonful Sherry wine ; paprika and salt 
to taste. Then add liquor from the mushrooms and the mushrooms. 
Ten minutes before serving, add tongues, sweetbreads and brains. 

TO BROIL VENISON STEAKS OR CUTLETS. 
Broil same as Lamb Chops, (page 62) remove to hot platter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread with butter and a little Currant 
Jelly. Venison should always be cooked rare. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. 

Melt fat, add one raw potato, sliced. Cook slowly and when it 
ceases to bubble and slices of potato are brown, strain through a fine 
sieve, into a crock. The potato absorbs the odors or gasses and col- 
lects some of the sediment, the remainder settling to the bottom of kettle. 
Remnants of fat, either cooked or uncooked, should be saved and tried 
out, and when necessary clarified. 

Fat from beef, poultry, chicken, or pork, may be used for shortening 
or frying purposes. 

Fat from smoked and corned meats, and mutton, may be used for 
making hard and soft soap. 

The fat removed from soup may be tried out, clarified and used for 
frying purposes. 

To try out fat, cut in small pieces and melt in double boiler. 

TO CORN BEEF. 
Remove bone from brisket weighing about ten pounds. With a 
knife make several incisions on one side of meat. Break saltpetre in 
small pieces, mix with one tablespoonful brown sugar and a few whole 
black peppers, and put a little of the mixture into each incision. Mix 
together one tablespoonful brown sugar, some coarse salt and a few 
whole black peppers, rub beef on all sides with it, then put in a crock. 
Add one clove of garlic and cover with a brine of salt and water, strong 
enough to float an egg. Cover with a plate and place a stone on top to 
keep meat under brine. In about two weeks it will be ready to cook. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 
Use slices of veal from leg. Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in flour, beaten egg and crumbs ; fry slowly in hot fat until tender 
and well browned. Serve with Tomato Sauce. Loin veal chops may be 
prepared the same way. 



68 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

Warmed Over Meats. 

BEEF HASH. 

Mix together and chop fine 2 cupfuls cold boiled potatoes, 1 cupful 
cold cooked beef and 1 small onion. Put in a hot, buttered frying-pan, 
and proceed same as for Corned Beef Hash. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

Chop separately two cupfuls cold corned beef and one cupful cold 
potatoes ; mix, and add one small onion, chopped fine. Put in a hot, but- 
tered frying-pan ; moisten with soup stock or cream, mix well and cook 
slowly about 15 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and add 1 table- 
spoonful butter. When brown underneath, turn on a hot platter. 

BROILED TENDERLOIN. 
Cut cold tenderloin in thick slices, place on broiler over clear fire 
and slightly brown on both sides. Remove to hot platter, spread with 
butter and, if necessary, add a little salt and pepper. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT OR CHICKEN. 
Wash in cold water one cupful rice, drain, put in a double boiler 
with one quart slightly salted boiling water, and boil rapidly for twenty 
minutes ; then place over a more moderate heat to steam for twenty 
minutes longer. When cooked, line a well-buttered border mould with 
part of the rice. Fill the center with a mixture of two cupfuls finely 
chopped cold meat or chicken, one teaspoonful chopped green pepper, 
one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one teaspoonful chopped onion, fried 
in butter, one tablespoonful cracker crumbs, and one egg. Season with 
salt, pepper and nutmeg, moisten well with soup stock, and cover with 
rice. Cover mould closely and steam about 45 minutes. Remove to hot 
platter, and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

CREAMED CHICKEN ON TOAST. 
Cut in small pieces the meat from cold chicken or turkey. Put the 
bones and dressing in saucepan with 2 cupfuls water and cook slowly 
until reduced to half, then strain, cool and skim. Heat two tablespoon- 
fuls butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour ; stir until smooth ; add Yz cupful 
cream, then the stock, chicken and 3 "hard-boiled" eggs, chopped fine. 
Season with salt, paprika and a little mace. Serve on buttered toast. 

MEAT PIE. 
Remove the bones from cold roast beef or steak and cut meat into 
small pieces. Cover bones with cold water, add 1 stalk celery, a little 
parsley and a few slices of onion and carrot. Simmer slowly about 1 
hour. Strain, thicken with flour diluted Math cold water, then add meat. 
Season with salt, cayenne pepper and nutmeg. Add potatoes which 
have been cut in % inch slices and parboiled in salted boiling water. Put 
in buttered baking-dish, cool, cover with pastry, make several incisions 
in the center of crust to allow the escape of steam, and bake until crust 
is done. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 69 

MEAT PIE WITH POTATO CRUST. 
Follow recipe for Meat Pie, (page 68). Cover with a layer of 
mashed potato instead of pastry and bake until brown. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST. 
Chop cold meat, season, moisten with stock or meat gravy, heat 
in a frying-pan and serve on buttered toast. 

RISSOLES. 

Mix one-half cupful finely chopped cold, cooked chicken with one- 
quarter cupful finely-chopped cooked ham ; moisten with a little White 
Sauce and season with salt and pepper. Roll rich pastry to one-eighth 
inch thickness and cut into five-inch squares. Place a little of the mix- 
ture on each square, fold like a turnover, and press edges together. 
Bake in quick oven about twenty minutes. Serve with Bechamel or 
Tomato Sauce. 

ROYAL SCALLOP. 

Chop fine some left-over boiled, broiled or fried ham, and six "hard- 
boiled" eggs. Put in buttered baking-dish first a layer of bread-crumbs, 
cover with a layer of ham, then of chopped eggs ; pour over a little 
Cream Sauce. Repeat and cover top with crumbs and bits of butter. 
Bake one-half hour. 

SCALLOPED MEAT. 

Chop cold cooked meat very fine. Put bits of butter in bottom of 
baking-dish, add meat, then a layer of tomato, ^4 green pepper cut fine ; 
cover with buttered bread crumbs and bake until brown. 

WALNUT STEW. 
Remove bones from cold roast beef. Cover bones with water, add 
1 onion, 1 stalk celery and 1 carrot sliced. Simmer slowly one hour, 
strain and add to stock the meat, cut in pieces. Cook until tender. Season 
with pepper, salt and ginger. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls flour with 2 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar ; add 4 pickled walnuts, chopped fine, and stir into the 
stew 5 minutes before serving. Serve with boiled rice. If desired, raw 
meat may be substituted for cooked meat. 



CHAPTER XV. 

POULTRY. 

BOILED FOWL. 
Season a 4 pound fowl with salt, pepper and ginger, and let stand 
3 hours. Place in kettle, partly cover with boiling water, and cook 
slowly until tender, turning occasionally. Serve with Oyster or Caper 
Sauce. 

BOILED CAPON. 

Follow recipe for Boiled Fowl. Serve with Caper Sauce. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Prepare and season same as for Smothered Spring Chicken, (page 
72) then place on greased broiler and put in hot gas oven, turning 
chicken frequently until both sides are evenly browned; exposing the 
flesh side longer to the flame. After chicken is well browned, turn gas 
quite low and cook until chicken is tender. Remove to a hot platter, 
spread plentifully with butter, and season with pepper and salt. 

Or, chicken may be broiled over a clear fire until browned ; then 
placed in dripping-pan, flesh side up, spread thickly with butter, and 
baked in a moderate oven until juicy and tender; then removed to platter 
and the butter in the pan poured over it. 

FRIED CHICKEN WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Clean and cut a young chicken same as for Chicken Fricassee^ Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and "ginger and dredge thickly with flour. Heat in 
a spider four scant tablespoonfuls fat and butter mixed, and fry chicken 
slowly until tender and brown. Remove to hot platter. To fat in pan 
add two tablespoonfuls flour ; stir until smooth ; then add one-half pint 
cream. Season with salt, pepper, and, if desired, a little mace. Cook 
until thick and pour over chicken. 

CHICKEN A LA HUNGARIAN. 

Heat 2 large tablespoonfuls butter in a kettle; add one onion 

cut in thin slices, and fry until golden brown. Draw, singe, clean and 

cut up a chicken, wash but do not dry; sprinkle with salt and put in 

kettle with the onion. Add one scant tablespoonful paprika. Cover and 

cook slowly until tender and brown, adding, if necessary, a little water, 

(only enough to keep chicken from burning.) Dredge with flour and 

cook 10 minutes longer. Remove to platter. Add one-half pint sour 

(or sweet) cream to kettle, heat to boiling point and pour over chicken. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Draw, singe, clean and cut up a chicken ; season with salt, pepper 

and ginger, and let stand 3 hours. Put in a kettle and cover with 

boiling water. Add one small onion, chopped and fried in butter, some 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 71 

chopped celery, 2 small carrots, sliced, and 3 large tomatoes or one cup- 
ful canned tomatoes. Cook slowly and steadily until chicken is tender, 
then remove from kettle, and strain stock. Brown \ J /i tablespoonfuls 
flour in one tablespoonful hot butter, add the stock and some finely 
chopped parsley ; stir until it boils ; then heat chicken in stock, before 
serving. If desired, the yolk of an egg may be added to the stock. 

GOOSE FRICASSEE. 

Prepared and cooked same as Chicken Fricassee, adding a clove of 
garlic to gravy, if desired. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 

Season and brown a young chicken in butter. Remove from cas- 
serole. Thicken butter with 2 tablespoonfuls flour, add one tablespoon- 
ful Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls catsup and 2 cupfuls soup 
stock. Return chicken to casserole, cover and cook slowly until tender. 
About one-half hour before serving, add potato balls ; fifteen minutes 
before serving add peas and just before serving add one wineglassful 
Sherry wine. Mushrooms may be added instead of peas or both may 
be used. The chicken may be cut in pieces or left whole and filled with 
dressing. 

CHICKEN IN ASPIC. 

Singe, draw, clean and cut in pieces a four pound chicken. Season 
with salt and pepper and let stand 2 hours. Put in kettle. Add 1 
small onion and 1 carrot, sliced ; a little celery, parsley, 1 bay leaf, 4 
cloves, and cover with boiling water. Cook slowly until chicken is very 
tender ; remove from kettle, skin, and cut meat from bones in medium- 
sized pieces. Return bones and skin to kettle, and cook slowly until 
reduced to half. Strain, remove fat, and season to taste. Mix this 
with the chicken and add two "hard-boiled" eggs, cut in slices. Fill 
mould with mixture and put in a cold place to become firm. In sum- 
mer, if the stock does not jell, add 14 cupful gelatine dissolved in a 
little water. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Make a rich pastry and put in a cool place until ready to use. Draw, 
singe and clean a three pound chicken ; cut same as for Chicken Fricas- 
see, (page 70) season with salt, pepper and ginger, and let stand for two 
or three hours, then put in kettle, cover with water, add one onion, one 
bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and cook slowly until chicken is tender. Pare 
about four potatoes, cut in small pieces, parboil 15 minutes and drain. 
Line a greased pudding-dish with pastry, put in first a layer of potatoes, 
then a layer of chicken, a sprinkling of ham, chopped fine, a little chopped 
parsley and celery, some small bits of butter, and if necessary, a little 
more seasoning. Repeat. Roll out the remainder of pastry, make a hole 
in the middle of it, wet edge of crust, cover dish with pastry, press edges 
together and trim. Bake in quick oven until crust is well done. Have 
ready the following sauce: — Brown lightly in spider one tablespoonful 
butter and two of flour, add about two cupfuls chicken stock, stirring 



72 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

constantly until it boils ; season with salt, pepper, ginger and, if desired, a 
little nutmeg. Remove from range and stir in the beaten yolk of one 
egg. Add a little chopped parsley, pour sauce into pie, through the 
opening in the upper crust and serve immediately. Veal, lamb and beef 
pie are prepared the same as above, adding a few carrots cut fine. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 
Draw, singe, clean and season with salt, pepper and ginger, a 4 
pound chicken; stuff with Liver Dressing; place in pan, and spread 
with 3 tablespoonfuls butter or poultry fat. Bake in hot oven until 
brown, basting every 10 minutes and turning frequently that it may 
brown evenly; then reduce heat and cook more slowly until chicken is 
done, adding a little water when necessary to prevent burning. Serve 
with gravy prepared same as Turkey Gravy, (page 74). 

ROAST CAPON. 

Follow recipe for Roast Chicken. 

SMOTHERED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Draw, singe and clean chicken, and split down the back. 
Season with salt, pepper and ginger, and place in baking-pan. Spread 
about 4 tablespoonfuls butter over top and pour one-half cupful water 
in pan. Cover, place in hot oven and cook one-half hour, then turn 
chicken, cover again and bake one-half hour longer. Remove to hot 
platter. Dissolve one tablespoonful flour in the fat in pan, and cook on 
top of stove, stirring until brown. Add one cupful cream or rich milk, 
heat slowly to boiling point, stirring constantly. Add more seasoning, if 
necessary, and pour over chicken. 

HOW TO SERVE BROILED SPRING CHICKEN OR SQUAB. 
Put squab or one-half chicken on plate and surround with a 
wreath of well- washed watercress. Arrange some red radishes (cut 
to resemble tulips) on the cress. Outside of the wreath, on one side, 
arrange three round slices of candied sweet potatoes one on top of the 
other to form a pyramid, putting one-half of a Maraschino cherry on 
top; on the other side of plate place a round slice of buttered toast 
covered with sauted mushrooms. 

(PAN) BROILED SQUABS ON TOAST. 
Draw, singe and clean squabs, split down the back, and season with 
salt, pepper and ginger; place in pan, smother with butter, put in hot 
oven of gas range and brown quickly, basting often, then reduce heat 
in oven and cook slowly until tender, continuing to baste. Serve on hot 
buttered toas? and pour butter from pan over squabs. Garnish with 
cress. 

POTTED SQUABS. 

Draw, singe and clean squabs, season well with salt, pepper and 
ginger, and stuff with Liver Dressing. Heat 3 tablespoonfuls poultry fat 
or butter in kettle, and cook squabs until brown; then remove from 
range. To the fat add one small onion chopped fine, one tablespoonful 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 73 

flour and stir until smooth ; add one cupful hot soup stock or hot water ; 
stir well. Season with pepper, salt, ginger and nutmeg. Return squabs 
to kettle, cover and cook slowly two hours. Add one small can heated 
mushrooms, one tablespoonful chopped parsley and one wineglassful 
Sherry wine. 

POT ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Singe, draw, clean and season same as turkey. Place in hot pan 
with plenty of butter or poultry fat; add 1 onion and 1 carrot, sliced, 
also a slice of brown bread. Brown duck on both sides, then add one- 
half cupful hot soup stock or boiling water. Cover and cook until 
tender. When done, season if necessary with a little more pepper, salt 
and ginger and add a little sweet pickle vinegar and Currant Jelly to 
gravy. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

Draw, clean and split quail down the back ; rub with salt, pepper and 
ginger, and broil from 8 to 10 minutes. Serve on slices of hot buttered 
toast and pour over hot melted butter. Garnish with watercress and 
serve with Currant Jelly. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Draw, singe and clean goose, season with salt, pepper and ginger, 
stuff with Sage Dressing, place in a hot roasting-pan in a hot oven and 
brown, basting frequently. Then add a little boiling water to the pan 
and baste every 15 minutes. Cook from 2 to 4 hours or until meat on 
breast and legs is tender. For gravy, remove some of the fat from pan, 
leaving about four tablespoonfuls, add three tablespoonfuls flour; stir 
until brown, then add slowly two cupfuls hot water or soup stock, and 
stir constantly until it boils. Season well with salt and pepper ; add the 
cooked gizzard, chopped fine, and a little chopped parsley. Serve with 
Apple Sauce. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Prepare and cook same as Roast Goose. Serve with Currant Jelly 
or Apple Sauce. 

GOOSE CRACKLINGS (GREBEN.) 
Remove skin and fat from a goose that is too fat to roast. Cut 
skin in 3 inch pieces, wash, sprinkle with salt and put in kettle with 
about two cupfuls cold water. Cover and cook slowly until water 
evaporates and cracklings are brown. Strain fat into crock and drain 
cracklings. 

FRIED GOOSE LIVER. 
Soak liver in cold salted water for several hours ; drain and put 
a small piece of sugar where the gall was. Place in hot spider and 
cover with hot goose fat. Brown on both sides. Do not cook too 
long, or liver will be dry. 

GOOSE MEAT PRESERVED IN FAT. 
Salt the breast and legs of goose and cook slowly in goose fat 
until brown and tender. Remove to a crock and cover with the hot 



74 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

fat. Cool, then cover crock with a plate and stone, and keep in a 
cool dry place. When ready to serve, take out meat, heat and drain 
off fat. 

POT ROAST BREAST AND LEGS OF GOOSE. 
Season the breast and legs of goose with salt, pepper, ginger, 
and, if desired, a little finely-cut garlic, and let stand over night. 
Heat about 4 tablespoonfuls goose fat in iron spider, add goose and 
brown on both sides, then add a very little hot water or soup stock, 
cover closely and cook slowly until tender. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Draw, singe and clean a fat turkey weighing about 10 lbs., season 
well with ginger, pepper and salt and let stand a few hours. Stuff 
with Bread or Chestnut Dressing, truss and place in a hot dripping-pan, 
dredge with a little flour, put some fat and butter on top and around 
turkey, and roast in a hot oven, basting frequently. When brown, mod- 
erate the heat, add 1 cupful boiling water or stock and cook more slowly 
until turkey is done, which will take about three hours. Serve on hot 
platter. Turn turkey occasionally while cooking that it may brown 
evenly. 

GRAVY FOR TURKEY. 

Pour off some of the fat from pan in which turkey has been roasted, 
leaving about 4 tablespoonfuls, to which add about 3 tablespoonfuls 
flour ; brown ; then add gradually 2 cupfuls hot stock or boiling water. 
Cook 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper, and add the chopped giz- 
zard which has previously been cooked, and some finely-chopped parsley. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

DRESSING FOR MEAT AND POULTRY. 

BREAD DRESSING. 
Soak one-half of a small loaf of white bread in lukewarm water. 
Drain and press dry. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a spider and 
brown lightly a small onion, chopped fine. Then add the bread, some 
parsley, chopped fine, and one-fourth cupful soup stock. Season with 
pepper, salt, ginger and nutmeg. A little powdered thyme may be 
added, if desired. Stir until mixture leaves the bottom of pan, then 
remove from stove and add two beaten eggs. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING. 
Peel and boil until tender one cupful chestnuts. Chop fine and 
add to Bread Dressing. 

LIVER DRESSING. 

Follow recipe for Bread Dressing, adding chicken livers, chopped 
fine. 

SAGE DRESSING. 

Prepare Bread Dressing according to recipe, and add one table- 
spoonful powdered sage. 

OYSTER DRESSING. 
Cut in halves as many oysters as required and add to Bread Dress- 
ing just before stuffing the fowl. 



CHAPTER XVII. 



VEGETABLES. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 



•BOILING. 


MINUTES 


Potatoes, white 


25 to 35 


Potatoes, sweet 


20 to 30 


String beans 
Lima beans 




Peas 


30 to 60 


Corn 


10 to 20 


Young beets 
Old beets 


45 


Asparagus 

Spinach 

Cauliflower 


30 to 35 
20 to 30 
20 to 30 


Brussels Sprouts 
Fresh tomatoes 


15 to 20 
30 


Canned tomatoes 


20 


Macaroni 


20 to 30 


Rice 


25 to 30 


Turnips 
Cabbage 
Oyster plant 
Squash 
Carrots 


30 to 45 

45 to 60 
20 to 30 


Onions 


45 to 60 


Parsnips 

BAKING. 


30 to 45 


Potatoes, white 


45 to 60 


Potatoes, sweet 


30 to 45 


Baked beans 





HOURS. 



l/ 2 



to 2 
1 to 



V/. 



3 to 4 



1 to \y 2 



l to \y 



6 to 8 
FRIED APPLES. 
Slice tart apples without paring them and fry brown on both 
sides in hot butter. Serve as a vegetable course. 

BOILED ARTICHOKES. 
Remove outer leaves and cut off stem close to leaves ; remove choke 
with a sharp knife, tie to keep it in shape, and soak in cold water 
about 40 minutes. Drain, and cook from 35 to 50 minutes, or until 
tender, in boiling, salted water, to which has been added a little 
vinegar. Remove from water, place upside down on a platter to 
drain, remove string, and serve hot with Hollandaise Sauce, or with 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 77 

hot melted butter. Or serve cold with Tartare Sauce. The leaves 
are pulled out separately with the fingers, and the fleshy ends dipped 
in the sauce and eaten.. 

CANNED ASPARAGUS TIPS. 
Proceed same as for canned asparagus on toast, remove tips of 
asparagus to hot vegetable dish and cover with hot Cream Sauce or 
hot melted butter. 

CANNED ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 
Open can and put in boiling water on top of range for 20 minutes. 
Remove asparagus from can, drain, and proceed as for Fresh Asparagus 
on Toast. 

FRESH ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 
Untie bunches of asparagus, break off the tough ends, remove 
scales, wash and retie in small bunches. Cook in boiling salted water 
30 minutes or until tender. Drain, remove strings, arrange on slices 
of buttered toast and cover with Cream Sauce; or, melt % cupful 
butter and pour over asparagus. 

STEWED ASPARAGUS. 
Wash asparagus and break in pieces about an inch long, using 
only the tender parts. Cook about y 2 hour or until tender, in boiling 
salted water. Drain and put in a hot vegetable dish. Heat l / 2 cup- 
ful cream, add 1 tablespoonful butter, season with pepper and more 
salt, if necessary, and pour over asparagus. Serve very hot. 

BOILED BEETS. 
Wash beets, but be careful not to cut the skin before cooking, 
as that destroys the flavor and color, cover with boiling water and 
cook until tender. (Young beets will cook in about 45 minutes. 
Winter beets require from 3 to 4 hours). When done, throw them 
into a bowl of cold water, quickly rub off skins, cut in slices and sea- 
son with pepper, salt and hot melted butter, or serve with Cream Sauce. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Soak 1 pint Lima beans over night. Drain and cook in boiling 
salted water 30 minutes or until tender. Drain. Mix 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter with 4 tablespoonfuls cream and stir into beans; season 
with salt and pepper, heat and serve. Or, serve with thickened Cream 
Sauce. 

SWEET SOUR LIMA BEANS. 

Boil and drain Lima beans and prepare sauce same as for sweet 
sour string beans, page 78). Add beans, simmer 20 minutes and serve 
hot. 

STRING BEANS. 

Cut off ends of beans, remove strings and cut beans crosswise 
in halves, then lengthwise in narrow strips, and soak one-half hour 
in cold water. Drain, and cook in boiling salted water 1 hour or until 
tender. Drain, season with salt, pepper and 2 tablespoonfuls butter; 
or cover with Cream Sauce. 



78 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

SWEET SOUR STRING BEANS. 
Prepare and cook 1 quart beans same as string beans, (page 77) and 
drain. Heat 1 tablespoonful butter or fat, add 1 large tablespoonful flour. 
Cook until brown. Then add 1 cupful soup stock, or hot water that 
beans were cooked in. Stir until smooth; add % cupful sugar and % 
cupful vinegar. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Heat to boil- 
ing point, stirring constantly. Pour over cooked beans, and simmer 
slowly 20 minutes. Serve very hot. 

BOULETTES. 

Beat the yolk of 1 egg until light, add one cupful mashed pota- 
toes, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, a little parsley and onion, chopped fine; 
season with paprika and salt; mix well, put in a spider and stir over 
the fire until thoroughly heated, then remove from stove. When 
cool, form into very small balls. Dip first in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs and fry in hot fat. These may be served as a garnish for fish 
or meat. 

SWEET POTATO BOULETTES. 

Prepare same as Boulettes, omitting the onion. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 
Remove all the wilted leaves and soak sprouts in cold water 
about 20 minutes, then cook 20 minutes or until tender in salted boil- 
ing water. Drain, put in hot vegetable dish with plenty of hot 
butter thrown over them, and season with pepper and salt. Or, pour 
Cream Sauce over them. 

CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 
Prepare same as Scalloped Cabbage, only sprinkle grated cheese on 
top before covering with bread crumbs and butter. 

RED CABBAGE. 
Remove outside leaves from red cabbage. Shred fine with sharp 
knife or cabbage cutter, put in colander and pour boiling water over 
to remove some of the color. Chop fine and fry 1 small onion in one 
large tablespoonful hot fat or butter ; add cabbage and a little boil- 
ing water or stock. Season with salt and paprika. Cover, and cook 
until tender. Add 1 tablespoonful flour dissolved in %. cupful vinegar 
and y<\ cupful sugar. Cook 5 minutes and serve hot. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE. 
Remove outer leaves from a small cabbage, cover with boiling 
salted water and boil 15 minutes. Drain, add more boiling water, 
and cook until tender. Drain again, cut fine, season with pepper, 
salt and butter and put in a baking-dish. Cook together one table- 
spoonful butter and one tablespoonful flour; add y 2 cupful hot milk; 
season with paprika and salt. Pour sauce over cabbage, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and bake until brown in a quick 
oven. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 79 

STEWED CABBAGE, NO. 1. 
Remove outside leaves from a young cabbage, cut in quarters 
and remove tough stalk. Soak in cold water l /z hour; drain, cover 
with salted boiling water to which has been added % teaspoonful 
baking-soda (this prevents unpleasant odor). Cook one hour or 
until tender. Drain, cut in small pieces, add ]/\ cupful soup stock, % 
cupful vinegar, 1 tablespoonful butter. Season with a little sugar, 
salt and pepper, cover kettle, and stew cabbage slowly for 20 minutes 
longer. Thicken with one teaspoonful flour. 

STEWED CABBAGE, NO. 2. 
Prepare and cook same as Stewed Cabbage No. 1. Remove 
cover. (Do not drain cabbage.) Cut fine; season with salt, pepper 
and 2 tablespoonfuls butter; simmer gently 10 minutes longer or 
until water evaporates. 

CARROTS AND PEAS. 
Mix together 2 cupfuls cooked carrots, cut in dice, and 2 cupfuls 
cooked green peas or contents of 1 can of peas (drained.) Add 
Cream Sauce and serve in hot dish. Or, brown 1 tablespoonful fat 
with 1 tablespoonful flour, add 1 cupful stock or hot water from cooked 
carrots ; season with salt and pepper, add vegetables, cook 5 minutes and 
serve in hot dish. 

CARROTS AND PEAS, SWEET AND SOUR. 
Mix together 2 cupfuls cooked carrots cut in dice, and 2 cupfuls 
cooked green peas or contents of one can peas. Brown 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter, add 1 large tablespoonful flour; brown; then add one cup- 
ful soup stock or hot water from cooked carrots, ~%. cupful sugar, % 
cupful vinegar. Season with paprika and salt, stir well, add the 
vegetables, and simmer 20 minutes. Serve hot. 

CARROTS WITH BUTTER. 
Prepare and cook same as Carrots with Cream Sauce, season with 
salt, pepper and plenty of butter and serve hot. 

CARROTS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Wash, scrape and slice carrots or cut them in small cubes, cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, and add Cream Sauce. Serve 
very hot. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 
Trim off outside leaves and soak cauliflower top down one hour 
in cold water. Separate flowerets and boil slowly until tender. Drain. 
Heat one tablespoonful butter, add one tablespoonful flour, stir until 
smooth ; add 1 cupful hot rich milk ; stir constantly until it boils, then 
add 1 well-beaten egg. Season with salt and paprika, and pour over 
cauliflower. Put in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with grated 
cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and brown in oven. 



80 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Remove outside leaves from cauliflower and cut off stalk 
close to the flower. Wash well, and soak one hour in cold water. 
Drain, tie the cauliflower in a piece of cheesecloth to keep from 
breaking, and put in a kettle of boiling salted water. Cook from 20 
to 30 minutes. Remove cloth, place cauliflower on platter, pour 
Cream Sauce over and serve hot. 

CELERY. 
To prepare celery for table, cut off leaves, outer stalks and part 
of the roots of celery; then cut in quarters, scrape off dark parts, 
wash thoroughly, and stand in cold water until ready to serve. A 
slice of lemon added to the water keeps celery crisp and white. 

CELERY ROOT. 
Pare 6 celery roots and soak Yz hour in cold water, then cook 
in salted, boiling water y 2 hour or until tender. Drain, cut in slices, 
and serve with Cream Sauce. 

CELERY TIMBALES. 
Mix thoroughly 1 pint cooked celery pressed through a sieve and 
seasoned with salt and white pepper, with four well-beaten eggs and 
one cupful cream. Fill well-buttered moulds, set in pan of hot water, 
cover and bake in moderate oven. Serve with Cream Sauce. 

STEWED CELERY. 
Wash and scrape celery-stalks and cut in one inch pieces. Cook 
in salted boiling water y 2 hour, or until tender. Drain, and cover 
with Cream Sauce. Serve very hot. 

CHESTNUTS AND PRUNES. 
Chop and brown 1 small onion in 1 heaping tablespoonful fat. 
Peel and skin 1 quart French chestnuts and put in the spider, shak- 
ing it for a few minutes so chestnuts will not burn; then cover with 
water and boil until nearly done. Wash 1 pound dried French prunes. 
Cover with cold water and cook until nearly tender; add cinnamon, 
brown sugar and lemon juice to taste, then add chestnuts and a little 
soup stock and cook slowly until tender. About five minutes before 
serving add 5 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine. Be careful not to break 
the chestnuts or prunes. 

CHESTNUTS AND RAISINS. 
Scald and remove skins from 1 pound French chestnuts ; wash 
in cold water and cut in medium-sized pieces. Cut y 2 onion in small 
pieces, and brown in a little soup fat. Add chestnuts and cook until 
almost tender, then add 1 cupful apples, cut in small pieces, sugar to 
taste, a little sliced lemon, stick cinnamon and y 2 cupful raisins. Cook 
slowly until tender, and about 10 minutes before serving add 4 table- 
spoonfuls Sherry wine. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 81 

CHESTNUT PUREE. 
Shell one quart chestnuts and cover with boiling water for ten 
minutes. Remove skins and cook chestnuts slowly in boiling salted 
water 30 minutes or until soft. Drain and mash until smooth. Heat 
one tablespoonful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls cream ; add chestnuts,, 
season with pepper and salt and beat until light. Pile lightly on 
center of hot platter and serve around it lamb or veal chops, or squabs. 
If desired, the puree may be put in a ring mould and browned lightly 
in oven. Then removed to platter and the center filled with chops or 
squabs. 

CANNED CORN. 
Pour corn into a stew-pan; add 1 tablespoonful butter, 4 table- 
spoonfuls cream ; salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 

CORN BOILED ON THE COB. 
Corn loses its sweetness from long standing and should be cooked as 
soon after picking as possible. Remove husks and silky threads from 
tender young ears of corn and soak corn one hour, then put in kettle 
and cover with boiling water, sweetened with a little sugar. Boil 20 
minutes. Serve on platter covered with napkin and draw corners of 
napkin over corn. 

BAKED CORN AND TOMATOES. 
Cover bottom of buttered baking-dish with a layer of sliced 
tomatoes ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, small bits of butter and a very little 
sugar. Add a layer of boiled sweet corn cut from the cob, and season as 
above. Repeat until dish is full. Cover with buttered crumbs, and 
pour over top one cupful thick cream. Bake one-half hour. 

CORN BOILED IN THE HUSKS. 
Remove outer green leaves, leaving enough inner leaves to cover 
corn. Remove silky threads, then tie leaves at the top. Cook 20 
minutes in boiling water sweetened with a little sugar. Serve in 
the husks. 

CORN FRITTERS NO. 1. 
To 2 well-beaten eggs add 2 cupfuls milk and 2 cupfuls flour. 
Stir together until very light and creamy; add 1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder and the corn cut from 2 ears of cooked corn. Season with 
pepper and salt. Drop by tablespoonfuls into hot butter or fat and 
brown on both sides. Serve very hot. 

CORN FRITTERS, NO. 2. 
Grate 1 dozen ears raw corn, add 3 well-beaten eggs, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls flour ; season well with pepper and salt. Drop by spoonfuls into hot 
butter or fat and brown on both sides. Serve very hot. 

CORN OYSTERS. 
Grate raw corn from cobs. To 1 cupful corn pulp add 1 table- 
spoonful butter, 1 egg, well-beaten, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, and season 



82 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

well with pepper and salt. Drop by spoonfuls into hot butter or fat, 
brown on both sides and serve very hot. 

CORN PUDDING A LA MARYLAND. 
Grate from 7 to 9 ears of raw corn. Beat well the yolks of 4 
eggs, add y 2 pint of rich milk, 1 tablespoonful butter; season with 
pepper, salt and a little sugar. Mix with the corn and stir in lightly 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a buttered pudding- 
dish and bake slowly, in a moderate oven, about 24 of an hour or 
until firm. Canned corn may be substituted for raw corn. 

SUCCOTASH. 
Mix 1 cupful cooked corn with equal quantity of cooked Lima 
beans; season with salt, pepper and one tablespoonful butter; add y 2 
cupful milk or cream thickened with 1 tablespoonful flour. Heat to 
boiling point and serve hot. 

CREAMED CUCUMBERS ON TOAST. 
Pare and remove a thick slice from each end. Cut cucumbers 
lengthwise in l /z inch slices; remove seeds. (Be sure to cut off a 
thick paring as the bitter part is near the skin and ends of cucumbers.) 
Boil cucumbers 20 minutes or until soft in salted boiling water. Drain. 
Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter, stir in 1 large tablespoonful flour; when 
smooth add j/2 cupful water that cucumbers were cooked in and l / 2 
cupful soup stock. Season with salt and paprika, add cucumbers, 
heat to boiling point and serve on hot buttered toast. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 
Pare cucumbers, cut lengthwise in y$ inch slices; remove seeds. 
Dry on a towel, season with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, egg, again 
in crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain. 

BAKED EGG PLANT. 
Wash egg-plant, parboil, cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out in- 
side without breaking the skin, and cook pulp in boiling salted water 
until tender. Beat with a spoon until very light and smooth; add one 
well-beaten egg, season with paprika, salt and a little nutmeg, add 
some finely-chopped parsley, one tablespoonful butter and 2 rolled 
crackers. Mix well, refill shells, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bits 
of butter and brown in quick oven. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 
Pare and cut egg plant in % inch slices and soak four hours in 
cold, salted water. Drain, season with salt and paprika, dip each 
slice in egg, then in crumbs, and fry slowly on both sides, in hot 
butter or fat, until crisp and brown. Serve hot. Or the slices may 
be dipped in batter and fried brown. 

KOHLRABI. 
Wash and soak the greens one-half hour in cold water. Drain 
cover with cold water, and cook until tender. Drain again and chop 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 83 

very fine. Wash, pare and cut in small pieces the white part of the 
kohlrabi, and cook until tender in salted boiling water. Drain. Heat 
one tablespoonful fat or butter, stir in one tablespoonful flour; when 
smooth, add greens, one small cupful soup stock and the white pan 
of the kohlrabi. Season with salt and pepper. Cook a few minutes 
and serve very hot. 

KOHLRABI WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Pare, slice and soak kohlrabi one-half hour in cold water. Drain. 
Cook in salted boiling water until tender. Drain, remove to hot 
vegetable dish and pour over Cream Sauce. 

KOHLRABI (HUNGARIAN.) 
Chop y 2 pound raw veal very fine, add 1 tablespoonful uncooked 
rice, 1 slice" soaked bread, (pressed dry,) 1 beaten egg, salt and 
pepper to taste. Mix well. Pare kohlrabi, scoop out inside, and 
fill with the mixture. Boil in soup stock until tender. Serve with 
Hungarian Chicken, (page 70) and add to chicken in kettle ten minutes 
before serving. Arrange on platter around the chicken. 

MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Cook and drain as for Macaroni with Tomato Sauce, put into a hot 
vegetable dish and pour Cream Sauce over it. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 
Break in halves % pound macaroni and boil rapidly 25 minutes 
in boiling salted water. Drain in colander, and pour cold water over 
to prevent pieces from sticking together. Put a layer of macaroni in 
greased baking dish, pour over some melted butter, sprinkle with 
grated American cheese, season with paprika and salt. Repeat, cover 
with grated cheese and bits of butter. Beat yolk of 1 egg into 1 
cupful cream or rich milk, and pour over macaroni. Bake until brown 
in hot oven. Serve immediately, as the cheese hardens from standing. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Cook y 2 pound macaroni until soft in salted boiling water. Drain, 
pour cold water over, and drain again. Chop fine one small onion 
and brown in two tablespoonfuls hot butter; add iy 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour ; mix well and add % cupful soup stock. Stir until smooth ; add 
1 cupful stewed, strained tomatoes. Put in a hot baking dish alter- 
nate layers of macaroni and sauce, and pour sauce over top. Place in 
hot oven 5 minutes and serve immediately. 

BROAD NOODLES. 
Beat 3 eggs, add sufficient flour to make a dough stiff enough 
to roll out. Divide into four parts, roll each part as thin as possible, 
and spread on towels to dry. Fold and cut one part into very fine noodles 
and the other three parts into broad noodles about 24 i ncn wide. 
Cook separately the broad and fine noodles in boiling salted water 
15 minutes. Drain and pour cold water over them. Heat 3 table- 



84 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

spoonfuls butter, add broad noodles ; when thoroughly hot remove to 
hot dish. Fry fine noodles until brown in one tablespoonful butter, 
pour over the broad noodles, and serve immediately. 

BOILED ONIONS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Cover onions with cold water and remove skins while under 
water. Drain, put in a sauce-pan and cover with boiling salted water. 
Cook about 40 minutes or until tender. Drain, and just before serving, 
mix with Cream Sauce. 

FRENCH FRIED ONIONS. 
Peel, wash and cut in thin slices Bermuda or Spanish onions. 
Put in a wire basket and cook in hot fat until brown and crisp. Sea- 
son with salt. 

FRIED WHOLE ONIONS. 

Wash and peel small silver-skinned onions. Heat about 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter in spider, add onions, cover and fry until well- 
browned, turning frequently. Season with pepper and salt. 

STEWED OYSTER PLANT. 
Wash, scrape oyster plant, and put at once in cold water, to which 
add 1 tablespoonful vinegar to prevent discoloration. Cut in half-inch 
slices and cook until tender in boiling salted water. Drain. Make 
a Cream Sauce, add oyster plant and serve hot. 

OYSTER PLANT FRITTERS. 
Make same as Parsnip Fritters, substituting oyster plant for par- 
snips. 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Wash, scrape and quarter young parsnips ; cook in salted, boiling 
water until tender, which will take about Y hour. Drain, season with 
pepper and salt, dredge with flour and fry brown in 2 tablespoonfuls 
hot butter or fat. 

STEWED, PARSNIPS. 

Prepare, quarter and cook as for fried parsnips; drain, season 
with pepper and salt, and cover with Cream Sauce or hot butter. Serve 
very hot. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Wash, scrape and soak in cold water, 4 good-sized parsnips. 
Drain, and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, mash 
fine, mix with 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 egg, a little pepper and salt. 
Shape in small round cakes and fry in 2 tablespoonfuls hot butter or 
fat until brown on both sides. 

CANNED PEAS. 
Drain peas, rinse with cold water, heat a few minutes, add 1 
tablespoonful butter, season with 1 teaspoonful sugar, a little pepper, 
salt, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley or mint, and, if desired add 2 
tablespoonfuls cream or soup stock. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 85 

GREEN PEAS. 
Shell ^2 peck peas, and soak in cold water one-half hour. Drain, 
and cook in salted boiling water about 30 minutes or until peas are 
soft. Drain, season with pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful chopped parsley or mint, and 1 tablespoonful butter. Or, 
heat l /z cupful cream, add 1 tablespoonful butter ; thicken with one 
tablespoonful flour. Stir until smooth. Season with salt, pepper and 
1 teaspoonful sugar and pour over peas. Soup stock may be substi- 
tuted for cream. 

PEA TIMBALES. 
Drain one can peas and press through a sieve. Soak one thick 
slice of bread in milk; when soft mix with peas, add beaten yolks of 
3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, salt and cayenne pepper to 
taste, then the stiffly beaten whites of the 3 eggs. Turn into buttered 
mould, put in pan half-filled with hot water, cover and bake until 
firm. Serve with White Sauce. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 
Put creamed potatoes, (page 86) into a well-buttered baking-dish, 
sprinkle plentifully with grated cheese and brown in oven. 

POTATO BALLS. 
Wash and pare potatoes and shape in small balls with a vegetable 
cutter. Soak in cold water Yz hour, then follow recipe for Boiled 
New Potatoes, (page 86). They may also be fried in boiling fat. 

POTATOES BOILED IN THEIR SKINS. 
Wash and scrub medium-sized potatoes and soak in cold water 
Y* hour. Cover with boiling water and cook slowly y 2 hour or until 
done. Drain, remove cover, sprinkle with salt and stand kettle on 
back of stove until potatoes are dry, then remove skins. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 
Season 2 cupfuls mashed potatoes with salt, pepper and nutmeg; 
add 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, the well-beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs and a little chopped parsley. Mix well together with 
a fork until very light; put in a sauce-pan on the fire and stir until 
potatoes leave the bottom and sides of pan. Cool, form in balls, dip 
in beaten egg, then in crumbs and fry in a wire basket in very hot 
fat; drain on brown paper, and serve on a hot platter. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 
Follow recipe for Potato Croquettes, using sweet potatoes, and 
omitting parsley. 

POTATO CAKES. 
Form cold mashed potatoes in small cakes, dip in flour and fry 
in hot fat or butter until brown on both sides. 



86 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

POTATOES IN CASES. 

Wash, scrub and bake 6 potatoes of equal size. Cut lengthwise 
in halves, and scoop out inside into a hot bowl, being careful not to 
break the skins. Put through a potato ricer, season with salt and 
pepper, add two tablespoonfuls butter, % cupful hot cream or rich 
milk. Beat with a fork until light. Fill skins with potato, sprinkle 
with cracker or bread crumbs, and dot with butter ; put in oven and 
brown . 

POTATOES ROASTED WITH MEAT. 

Wash and pare potatoes of equal size, and place in pan around 
the meat one hour before meat is done. The potatoes should be 
basted every time the meat is basted, that they may be brown and 
crisp. Serve on platter around the meat. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 
Beat until very light 2 cupfuls hot mashed potatoes. Mix 2 
scant tablespoonfuls butter with l / 2 cupful hot cream, then add to 
potatoes. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and season with 
salt and pepper. Stir until very creamy; then add lightly the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pile in a buttered baking-dish and bake 
in a quick oven until nicely browned. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash and scrub potatoes of equal size and place in hot oven 

to bake. It will take from ^ hour to 1 hour to bake large potatoes 

in oven of coal range and about 40 minutes in a gas range. Potatoes 

should be served as soon as done, as they become soggy from stand- 

BAKED POTATOES WITH CHEESE. 
Follow recipe for Potatoes in Cases, substituting grated cheese for 
bread crumbs. 

BOILED POTATOES. 
Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes and soak in cold water 
for one hour. Drain, and cook slowly in boiling, salted water until 
soft. Drain, remove cover and stand for a few minutes on back of 
stove to dry. Potatoes should not be left in water after they are 
cooked. 

BOILED NEW POTATOES. 
Scrape potatoes and soak y 2 hour in cold water. Cook slowly 
in salted boiling water until done. Drain, pour melted butter over them 
and sprinkle with finely chopped' parsley, or serve with Cream Sauce. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter in frying-pan, add 1 tablespoonful 
flour. Stir until smooth; then stir in 1 cupful cream or rich milk. 
Season with salt and pepper. Heat to boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly, then add 2 cupfuls cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice. Heat 
and serve immediately. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 87 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 
Wash and pare potatoes and soak one hour in salted water. 
Cut lengthwise in eighths, dry on a towel, and fry in very hot fat until 
done. Remove with skimmer and place in colander on back of stove 
to keep hot, until all are cooked; then sprinkle with salt and serve 
hot. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Slice and chop cold, boiled potatoes. Fry 1 tablespoonful chopped 
onion in 2 scant tablespoonfuls hot butter or fat; add potatoes and 
cook until brown. 

FRIED POTATOES (GERMAN.) 
Pare and slice thin 6 medium-sized raw potatoes and stand in 
salted cold water for y 2 hour. Drain. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls fat or 
butter in an iron spider, add potatoes, and cook until brown on both 
sides. Season with salt and pepper. Remove spider to back of range, 
cover, and cook potatoes slowly until done, which will take about 30 
minutes. 

GLAZED POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in small squares, season with salt and 
pepper, moisten thoroughly with cream, put on a platter with bits of 
butter between and on top of potatoes. Bake one hour in moderate 
oven. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

Chop fine 5 cold boiled potatoes, season with salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley. Heat in a spider two heaping tablespoonfuls butter 
and fat mixed, add potatoes, brown on the bottom, fold in the shape 
of an omelet and slip onto a hot platter, being careful not to disturb 
the sri3.DC 

POTATOES A LA PIQUANT. 

Follow recipe for Hashed Brown Potatoes, substituting y 2 chopped 
red pepper for the parsley and pepper. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES IN OVEN. 
Pare 4 raw, medium-sized potatoes and chop in small pieces. 
Place a layer of potatoes in a well-greased baking-dish, season with 
salt, pepper and a very little finely-chopped onion, dredge lightly with 
flour and dot over with bits of butter; repeat until dish is almost full. 
Sprinkle with bread crumbs and dot with butter. Pour over enough 
milk to cover potatoes, and bake 1 hour. 

JULIENNE POTATOES. 
Pare and cut potatoes in fine strips, about the size of spaghetti. 
Soak y 2 hour in salted cold water; drain and fry carefully (as they 
burn easily) in boiling fat until light brown. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 chopped onion, fry until light 
brown. Add 1 pint sliced potatoes. Stir gently until brown, then 



88 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

add 1 tablespoonful parsley. Season with salt and pepper and serve 
immediately while hot. If necessary add more butter, as potatoes absorb 
a great deal of butter. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Follow recipe for Boiled Potatoes, (page 86). When done, drain 
thoroughly, and mash until perfectly smooth. Add 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, y 2 cupful hot cream or milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat with 
a fork until very light and serve immediately in hot dish. 

RICED POTATOES. 
Follow recipe for Mashed Potatoes ; press through a colander or 
potato ricer into a hot dish and serve very hot. Or, press into a 
baking-dish, brown in oven and serve in baking-dish. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes with a vegetable slicer into very 
thin round slices. Stand in salted cold water l / 2 hour. Drain, dry, 
and fry in deep fat until crisp and brown. Remove with skimmer and 
place on brown paper to drain. Sprinkle with salt and serve hot or 
cold. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Cut into dice 5 large, cold, boiled potatoes. Butter baking-dish 
and put in a layer of potatoes ; season with paprika, salt and chopped 
parsley, cover with a layer of white sauce. Repeat until dish is almost 
filled, using sauce for the last layer. Sprinkle with crumbs and bits 
of butter. Put in hot oven 10 minutes to brown. 

SPANISH POTATOES. 
Peel and scoop out inside from good-sized potatoes, and boil the 
shells about 5 minutes in salted water. Drain. Mix together y 2 
pound raw meat, chopped fine, one small onion, chopped and fried, 
%. of a green pepper, 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, a little parsley, and a few 
seedless raisins, all chopped fine. Season with Worcestershire Sauce, 
tomato catsup, paprika, salt and nutmeg; moisten with a little soup 
stock. Fill potato shells. Add 1 tablespoonful fat to kettle, put 
in shells, cover, and cook slowly until tender and brown, adding to 
kettle, if necessary, a little more fat. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 
Pare and parboil 6 sweet potatoes of medium size, cut length- 
wise in halves. Heat on top of stove, in iron spider, % cupful of 
butter, add x /i cupful brown sugar; put in potatoes and brown them 
on both sides, then add y cupful water. Cover well and cook until 
done. Serve on hot platter and pour over the syrup. If desired, a 
little lemon juice may be added to the water. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 
Wash and scrub sweet potatoes of medium size and bake in a hot 
oven until soft, which will take in gas oven l / 2 hour or longer, and 
still longer in oven of coal range. Serve immediately. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 89 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 
Wash and scrub sweet potatoes of equal size, cover with boiling 
water and boil from 20 to 30 minutes or until they can be pierced 
with a fork. Drain, remove lid, and stand kettle on back of stove 
for a few minutes to dry potatoes. Then remove skins. 

CUBAN SWEET POTATOES 
Wash and pare sweet potatoes, cook until tender in boiling salted 
water. Cool and cut in- slices, lengthwise. Cover bottom of pudding 
dish with one-half inch layer of light-brown sugar, dot over with 
butter; add a layer of potatoes. Sprinkle with sugar and dot with 
butter. Repeat. Press potatoes down with palm of hand, and bake 
from one to one and one-quarter hours. Turn on a hot platter, or 
serve in dish in which they were cooked. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 
Peel and cut lengthwise in halves boiled sweet potatoes and fry 
in hot butter until well browned on both sides. 

PUMPKIN A LA HUNGARIAN. 
Pare and cut a green pumpkin in squares. Boil until tender in 
a little milk seasoned with salt. Drain. Put in a buttered baking- 
dish, cover with crumbs and bits of butter, pour over one cupful sour 
or sweet cream and bake until brown. 

BLACK OR WHITE RADISHES. 
Scrape and cut radishes in very thin slices, put in bowl, sprinkle 
each layer with salt and stand 2 hours. Drain well before serving. 

RED RADISHES. 
To prepare radishes for table, remove leaves and roots, cut off 
part of stem, and serve on crushed ice. Or, radishes may be made to 
resemble roses by cutting skin from top downward in several places 
without detaching it. Do the same with white part of radish, and 
place in cold water until ready to serve. 

SPAGHETTI WITH CHEESE. 
Break in halves ]/\. pound spaghetti and cook about 25 minutes 
or until soft, in salted, boiling water. Drain in colander and pour 
over cold water to prevent pieces from adhering. Put a layer of 
spaghetti in the bottom of a greased baking-dish, pour over two or 
three tablespoonfuls stewed tomatoes. Season with paprika and salt, 
sprinkle with grated American cheese, dot over with bits of butter. 
Repeat. Sprinkle over top grated cheese, bits of butter and a little 
paprika and salt. Bake until brown in hot oven and serve immediate- 
ly, as cheese hardens from standing. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATOES. 
Take a handful of long sticks of spaghetti, and dip ends in boil- 
ing, salted water. As spaghetti softens, it will bend and may be coiled 
under water. Boil rapidly 20 minutes or until soft. Drain in colander, 



90 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

pour cold water over and drain again. Fry one small chopped onion in 
one tablespoonful butter; add one tablespoonful flour. Cook 3 min- 
utes. Add one cupful strained, stewed tomatoes. Season with salt, 
paprika and a little sugar. Add spaghetti, heat to boiling point and 
serve immediately in hot dish. 

SPATZEN, NO. 1. 
Beat 3 eggs, add gradually 1 quart sifted flour, y 2 teaspoon- 
ful salt and enough water or milk to make dough about the consist- 
ency of a stiff cake batter. Drop by teaspoonfuls into salted, boiling 
water, and boil steadily about 10 minutes. Drain in colander and 
pour cold water over. Heat in spider % cupful butter, put in spatzen and 
when thoroughly hot add 3 beaten eggs. Stir a few minutes until 
eggs are set, and serve at once. 

SPATZEN, NO. 2. 
Cream 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 2 eggs, one at a time, and a 
little salt. Mix well, and then add gradually about 1 quart sifted flour 
alternately with enough water or milk to make a dough about the 
consistency of a stiff cake batter. Drop by teaspoonfuls into salted 
boiling water, and boil steadily 10 minutes. Remove with skimmer to 
colander and pour cold water over. Heat a scant l / 2 cupful butter, 
add some bread crumbs, when brown, pour in spatzen, and when 
thoroughly hot serve immediately. 

SPINACH. 
Pick over carefully y 2 peck spinach, removing roots and wilted 
leaves. Wash in 3 or 4 waters that it may be clean and free from 
grit. Put in a covered kettle with 1 cupful water and steam 20 
minutes or until tender. Drain, and chop very fine. Fry until light 
brown, 1 tablespoonful very finely-chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls 
hot butter; add 1 tablespoonful flour; stir until smooth; then add 
chopped spinach. Cook a few minutes, add 1 cupful soup stock or 
hot cream. Season with pepper, salt and ginger, cook a few minutes 
longer and serve in a hot dish with sliced "hard-boiled" eggs on top. 
If spinach is old, instead of steaming, cover with salted boiling water 
and cook until tender. 

BOILED SUMMER SQUASH. 
Wash and pare squash, cut in quarters and remove seeds. Cook 
in boiling salted water 20 minutes or until soft. Place a piece of 
cheesecloth in a colander, pour in the squash, squeeze cloth until squash 
is dry. Mash. Heat one tablespoonful butter, add squash, season with 
pepper and salt, stir until light and serve very hot. 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH. 
Pare squash, cut in slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
egg, then in crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

BAKED WINTER SQUASH. 
For baking, the small Hubbard squash is best. Split squash in 
half, remove seeds, and stringy parts, place in a covered baking- 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 91 

pan and bake in a slow oven about 2 hours, or until soft. Remove 
from shell, mash fine and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over 7 or 8 good sized tomatoes, and remove 
skins. Cut in pieces and cook slowly 30 minutes. Chop fine 1 small 
onion, fry in 1 tablespoonful butter, and add to tomatoes. Season 
with salt, pepper and sugar, thicken with bread crumbs or 1 table- 
spoonful flour dissolved in a little water. Cook about 10 minutes 
longer and serve very hot. Canned tomatoes may be prepared the 
same way. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice tomatoes. Cover bottom of buttered baking-dish 
with a layer of tomatoes. Season with a little cayenne pepper, sugar 
and salt; sprinkle with bread crumbs, then bits of butter. Repeat un- 
til dish is full, having the last layer crumbs with butter on top. Bake 
in a quick oven from 20 to 30 minutes. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 
Wash and dry as many large smooth tomatoes as required, re- 
move a thin slice from stem end of each, and with a small spoon 
scoop out some of the pulp, being careful not to break the outer 
skin. Season tomatoes with salt and pepper and put aside until 
needed. Chop one small onion very fine, and brown slightly in one 
tablespoonful butter or fat; add one cupful finely chopped meat or 
chicken, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter or thick cream, one teaspoon- 
ful each of chopped parsley and green pepper, and one tablespoonful 
bread crumbs. Mix well, season with salt, ginger and cayenne 
pepper, remove from range and add yolk of one egg. Fill tomatoes 
with mixture, sprinkle with crumbs and dot with butter. Place in 
pan with a little soup stock and bake in a moderate oven from 20 to 
30 minutes, basting frequently. If desired, bread crumbs may be 
used instead of chopped meat. 

TURNIPS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Wash, pare and cut turnips in one-half inch cubes. Cook until 
tender in boiling salted water. Drain, remove to a hot vegetable dish 
and pour Cream Sauce over them. 

MASHED TURNIPS AND POTATOES. 
Mix together equal quantities of hot mashed turnips and hot 
mashed potatoes; season with butter, pepper and salt and serve very 
hot. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 
Wash, pare, and cut turnips in slices, and soak in cold water y 2 
hour. Drain, cover with salted boiling water and cook about ^ 
hour or until very tender. Drain, mash fine, season with butter, pepper, 
salt and, if desired, a little sugar. Serve very hot. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Season Hollandaise, Drawn Butter or Brown Sauce with Anchovy 
Paste 

BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Cream 3 tablespoonfuls butter, add Yz teaspoonful salt, a dash of 
paprika, the yolks of 3 eggs. Stir until light. Put in double boiler 
on range, and add 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
soup stock, or hot water, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, and 1 teaspoonful 
onion chopped fine. Stir with wire whisk until thick, then add 1 tea- 
spoonful parsley chopped fine. Serve with steak, chops, squabs or 
boiled fish. 

BORDELAISE SAUCE. 

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 2 slices onion, 2 slices carrots, 
1 teaspoonful parsley, 2 bay leaves, 10 pepper corns, 2 cloves, and cook 
until brown. Add 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour, and when well- 
browned add gradually 1 cupful soup stock. Strain and simmer a few 
minutes, then add % cupful Claret wine and 1 tablespoonful butter. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

BROWN SAUCE. 
Brown 1 tablespoonful finely chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls 
hot butter. Add 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour, stir until smooth and 
brown. Add gradually 1 pint soup stock and stir until thick. Season 
with salt, pepper and a little ground ginger. 

CAPER SAUCE. 
Drain l / 2 cupful capers and add to 1 pint Drawn Butter Sauce, 
(page 93). 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Make same as Thin White Sauce, (page 96) using cream instead 
of milk. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 
Pare, chop and drain, 1 good-sized cucumber, and add to 1 pint 
Cream Sauce. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 
Make 1 cupful Brown Sauce, omitting onion and using double 
quantity of flour. Add yi glassful Currant Jelly and 1 tablespoonful 
Sherry wine. 

CURRY SAUCE. 
Add 1 teaspoonful Curry powder to ]A pint Brown Sauce. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 93 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 
Heat, but do not brown, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls flour. Stir until smooth. Add slowly 1 cupful boiling water, 
stirring until mixture thickens. Season with salt, paprika and juice of 
y 2 lemon. Remove immediately from fire and add 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, cut in pieces. Serve with boiled fish, asparagus or cauliflower. 

EGG SAUCE. 
Make 1 pint Thin White Sauce, (page 96) and add beaten yolks of 
2 eggs just before removing from fire. 

"HARD-BOILED" EGG SAUCE. 
Make 1 pint Thin White Sauce, (page 96) or Drawn Butter Sauce, 
and add 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, sliced thin. Serve with boiled fish or 
boiled poultry. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour. Stir until 
thoroughly cooked, but do not brown. Add gradually 1 cupful boiling 
water. Stir until thick. Season with salt and paprika. Remove from 
fire and add gradually the beaten yolks of 4 eggs. Place again on fire 
for a few minutes to set the eggs, but do not let it boil. Stir in 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful onion juice, 1 tablespoonful chopped 
parsley and 1 tablespoonful butter. Remove from fire and beat well 
with egg beater. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Heat, but do not brown, 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful 
flour. Mix until smooth. Add y 2 pint cream or rich milk, y 2 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 2 dashes pepper, and stir constantly until it boils. Remove 
from fire and add gradually beaten yolks of 2 eggs, juice of y 2 lemon, 1 
teaspoonful onion juice and 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. Serve 
with boiled or baked fish. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE, NO. 3. 
Put in saucepan and beat to a cream y> cupful butter. Add grad- 
ually yolks of 4 eggs and beat thoroughly with a wire whisk. Add juice 
of y 2 lemon, y 2 teaspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne pepper; then slowly 
add 1 cupful hot water. Mix well and place saucepan in pan of hot 
water on range, stirring constantly until sauce becomes thick as cream, 
but do not let it boil. Remove from range and continue to stir for a few 
minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Chop fine 1 small onion, and fry light brown in 1 tablespoonful fat. 
Add 1 large tablespoonful flour. Stir until smooth. Add 1 cupful hot 
soup stock, 3 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish, moistened with a 
little cream, 1 large tablespoonful sugar, juice of 1 lemon, 1 bay leaf, 
a couple of cloves, and a little salt and pepper. Cook well, and if de- 
sired, add more sugar and lemon juice. 



94 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Add 3 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish to 1 cupful Thick White 
Sauce, No. 1, (page 96). Stir well in double boiler. Add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls vinegar, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls cream and season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 
Add 1 cupful lobster meat, chopped fine, to 1 pint Drawn Butter 
Sauce. (Page 93). Serve with fish. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a bowl and with a wooden spoon 
beat until perfectly smooth and creamy. Add l /z teaspoonful salt, a 
dash of paprika, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley and 1 tablespoonful 
lemon juice. Spread on broiled steak, chops or fish, and put in oven 
a few minutes. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Heat 1 tablespoonful butter. Add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir until 
smooth. Add gradually 1 cupful hot stock. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Add 1 cupful fresh mushrooms, cut in quarters. Cook ten minutes 
and add 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Serve with steak. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar to ^ cupful vinegar. When dissolved, 
pour over 1 bunch mint, chopped very fine. Season with salt and pepper 
and stand on back of range an hour or more before serving. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 
Mix yolks of 2 eggs with 1 teaspoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful mus- 
tard, y% teaspoonful salt, y 2 cupful vinegar, l / 2 cupful sweet milk. Put 
in double boiler, heat to boiling point, and remove immediately from 
range. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
Drain, rinse and cut in quarters 1 small can mushrooms, or peel, 
cut in pieces and cook 1 cupful fresh mushrooms ; add to 1 pint Brown 
Sauce. Heat thoroughly. Add 1 wineglassful Sherry wine. 

WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
To 1 pint Cream Sauce, (page 92) add 1 cupful fresh or canned 
mushrooms, chopped fine. If fresh mushrooms are added cook them in 
the sauce in a double boiler for 15 minutes. If canned mushrooms, only 
heat them in the sauce, as cooking toughens them. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 
Drain oysters. Heat liquor, skim, add oysters and cook until plump. 
Remove oysters. Add to liquor 1 cupful hot cream. Heat 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, stir until smooth. Add gradually 
the hot liquor and cook until thick. Cut oysters in halves and add to 
sauce. Season with salt and pepper. Serve immediately. May be used 
for chicken or fish. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 95 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 
Add 1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley to 1 pint White Sauce, 
(page 96) or Drawn Butter Sauce, (page 93). 

PORT WINE SAUCE. 
Make same as Currant Jelly Sauce, (page 92) substituting Port 
wine for Sherry. 

SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS OR CAULIFLOWER. 
Mash yolks of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs until smooth. Add yolks of 2 
raw eggs, a piece of butter size of a walnut, 1 teaspoonful prepared 
mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, y$ cupful tarragon vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice, the chopped whites of "hard-boiled" eggs, 
1 onion, cut fine, y 2 cupful cream and 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
Cook over boiling water until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

To 1 pint Drawn Butter Sauce, (page 93) add 1 yolk of egg and 1 
cupful shrimps, cleaned and cut in pieces. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Brown 3 tablespoonfuls butter, add 3 tablespoonfuls flour. Stir 
until smooth and brown. Add gradually 1 pint soup stock, 1 slice car- 
rot, 1 bay leaf, 2 slices onion, 1 sprig parsley, 1 stalk celery, 1 piece 
thyme, 4 pepper corns, 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire Sauce, a little 
pepper, salt, ginger and nutmeg. Stir until thick. Strain and add 1 
wineglassful Sherry wine. Serve with beefsteak, fillet, or warmed 
over meat. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Make Spanish Sauce, omitting Sherry wine. Strain, add 1 table- 
spoonful each of capers, chopped vinegar pickles and tarragon vinegar. 

SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Cook slowly, about 10 minutes, in double boiler, 1 cupful vinegar, 
1 cupful white stock or water, % cupful sugar, 1 onion, 1 lemon sliced, 
and 1 bay leaf. Season with salt and pepper. Dissolve 1 tablespoonful 
flour in a little water and add to sauce. Boil 5 minutes longer, then add 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Heat to boiling point, stirring constantly, then 
remove from range. Serve hot or cold with fish. 

SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Cook in double boiler, 2 cupfuls soup stock, y 2 cupful vinegar, y 2 
cupful sugar, 1 lemon, 1 onion, sliced, and y 2 cupful raisins. Thicken 
with 2 or 3 molasses cakes, rolled fine and dissolved in a little water. 
Season with salt, cayenne pepper and ginger, and stir until smooth. 
Serve hot or cold with meat, tongue or fish. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 
Add to 1 cupful Mayonnaise Dressing y 2 tablespoonful each of 
finely chopped olives, pickles, capers and parsley. Mix well and serve 
with smelts or soft shell crabs. 



96 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

TOMATO SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Chop fine 1 small onion and brown in 3 tablespoonfuls butter. Add 
3 tablespoonfuls flour and stir until brown. Add gradually 2 cupfuls 
tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, a slice of carrot, a stalk of celery, 1 tablespoonful 
sugar. Stir until smooth. Simmer 15 minutes, strain and add 1 cupful 
soup stock. Season with salt, paprika and a little mace. Serve with 
veal or lamb chops. 

TOMATO SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Follow recipe for Tomato Sauce, No. 1, omitting soup stock and 
using 1 tablespoonful less of butter and flour. 

CREAM TOMATO SAUCE. 
Make Tomato Sauce, No. 2, and just before serving add J4 cupful 
thick cream. Do not boil after adding cream. 

THICK WHITE SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Make same as Thin White Sauce, using 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls flour, 1 cupful milk, and season with pepper and salt. 

THICK WHITE SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Make same as Thin White Sauce, using 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls flour, 1 cupful white soup stock, and season with pepper 
and salt. 

THIN WHITE SAUCE. 
Heat, but do not brown, 1 tablespoonful butter; add 1 table- 
spoonful flour. Stir until smooth. Add y 2 pint milk. Season with 
pepper, salt and a little mace or nutmeg. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 
Mix together 1 teaspoonful salt, *4 teaspoonful paprika, 1 table- 
spoonful tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar, 6 tablespoon- 
fuls olive oil, 1 tablespoonful chopped pickles, 1 tablespoonful chopped 
green pepper, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful chopped 
chives. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful butter in saucepan, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Stir until smooth. Add slowly 1 cupful hot milk. Stir until thick. Sea- 
son with salt and a dash of paprika. When cold stir in 1 cupful whipped 
cream. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

ARTICHOKES ON LETTUCE LEAVES. 
Remove artichokes from can and chill thoroughly. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves, cover with a small quantity of caviare and add a 
little pate de foie gras. Pour over Vinaigrette Sauce. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 
Cut rings about l /s inch wide, from a red or green pepper. Place 
in each ring 4 stalks of asparagus. Arrange on lettuce leaves and pour 
over French Dressing. 

ASPARAGUS AND CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 
Cook a cauliflower until tender and separate the flowerets. Ar- 
range in the center of platter and surround with a wreath of cooked 
asparagus tips. Cover with Mayonnaise Dressing, and sprinkle with 
chopped capers and pimentoes. 

GREEN BEAN SALAD. 
Mix 1 teaspoonful chives, cut fine, with 2 cupfuls cold string beans, 
and 1 tablespoonful red pepper, cut in strips. Moisten well with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with red 
radishes, cut like roses. 

YELLOW BEAN SALAD. 
Remove strings from yellow beans, break in 1-inch pieces, wash 
and cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain and put back on 
range. Sweeten 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar to taste, boil 1 minute and 
pour over beans ; heat to boiling point. Add 1 cupful sweet or sour 
cream mixed with 1 teaspoonful flour. Season with salt and paprika. 
Stir until thick and then pour into serving dish. Serve very cold. 

BEET SALAD. 
Bake large beets in oven until tender. Stand in cold water a few 
minutes, peel. Slice thin and place in a crock or bowl. Slice thin 1 
large onion and mix with beets. Heat enough vinegar to cover them. 
Season to taste, with pepper, salt, sugar and a few whole cloves, and 
pour over beets. Serve cold. 

BRAIN SALAD. 

Scald, clean and remove the fibrous membrane from brains. Boil in 

salted water until tender and firm. Drain and plunge into cold water. 

When cold, drain again, cut in lengthwise slices, arrange on lettuce 

leaves, add a few thin slices of onion, and pour over a French Dressing. 



98 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CABBAGE SALAD, NO. 1. 

Chop fine one head of cabbage. Beat until light 2 eggs, add 1 tea- 
spoonful mustard, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, a piece of butter, the size 
of an egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful paprika, Yz cupful sugar, 
24 cupful vinegar, cook in double boiler until it thickens. When cool add 
y 2 pint whipped cream. Mix well with cabbage and arrange on lettuce 
leaves, or leave enough outside leaves of the cabbage to keep its shape, 
tie with a ribbon to hold together, fill with the mixture, and place on 
a round platter. 

CABBAGE SALAD, NO. 2. 

Heat in double boiler 1 cupful vinegar and y 2 cupful water. Beat 
2 eggs until light, add 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, *4 
teaspoonful mustard (dissolved), a little pepper and salt. Add to 
vinegar and stir until thick; then pour over finely cut cabbage. Cool 
and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

String, cook and slice lengthwise some beans; mix with French 
Dressing. Chop a red cabbage and mix with French Dressing. Place 
a cooked cauliflower on a platter, cover with Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Drain beans and arrange around cauliflower. Drain cabbage and ar- 
range around beans. 

CELERY ROOT ON LETTUCE LEAVES. 
Boil celery root until tender; cut into thick slices and follow 
recipe for Artichokes on Lettuce Leaves. (Page 97). 

CELERY AND CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop and mix equal parts of white cabbage and celery. Drain 
and add 1 small bottle capers. Season with salt and pepper. Moisten 
thoroughly with Mayonnaise Dressing, and arrange on crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Boil 2 roots of celery until tender; cut in small pieces. Add the 
chopped whites of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, and the white stalks of a small 
bunch of celery, cut fine. Mix thoroughly with either French or 
Mayonnaise Dressing, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Mash yolks of 
"hard-boiled" eggs, and sprinkle over top. 

CHEESE BALLS. 
Cream 1 Philadelphia cheese. Add 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, a 
dash of paprika, 34 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful oil, 1 tablespoonful 
Worcestershire Sauce. Chill, then add y 2 cupful walnuts, chopped 
fine. Shape in balls, size of walnuts. 

CHEESE BALL SALAD. 
Follow recipe for Cheese Balls. Arrange on crisp lettuce leaves, 
moisten well with French Dressing and cover with Bar le Due. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 99 

CHEESE AND OLIVE SALAD. 
Moisten a cream cheese with cream. Mash very fine and season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. Add 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped 
olives and y 2 of small can pimentoes, cut in thin strips. Form in original 
shape of cheese and let stand two hours. Cut in slices, arrange on crisp 
lettuce leaves, and cover with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
Boil a tender pullet, and when cold remove skin and cut meat in 
small pieces. Wash and cut in small pieces stalks of celery and chill 
in cold water. Drain, dry and mix with chicken. Season with pepper 
and salt, and mix with Mayonnaise Dressing, allowing \ x / 2 cupfuls of 
dressing to 1 pint cut up chicken and \y> cupfuls celery. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves. Garnish with slices of "hard-boiled" eggs and olives. If 
desired, 1 cupful whipped cream may be added to the above quantity 
of Mayonnaise before using. 

CREAMED CHICKEN SALAD. 
Cook until tender, 1 large chicken. Use only the breast and grind 
through meat machine. Soak 1 rounding tablespoonful gelatine in l / 2 
cupful chicken broth. Beat yolks of 4 eggs, add gradually y 2 cupful 
hot chicken broth and cook in double boiler until thick. Add dissolved 
gelatine and put in pan of ice water to cool. Add chicken, season with 
pepper and salt, add gradually y 2 cupful cream (whipped), stirring 
constantly. Pour into a 1 -pound baking powder can and place on ice. 
When ready to serve, slice, arrange on lettuce leaves and put 1 spoon- 
ful Creamed Chicken Salad dressing, (page 103) on each slice. Garnish 
with slices of "hard-boiled" eggs and capers. 

CHIFFONADE SALAD. 
Arrange on platter lettuce leaves, romaine, watercress, quartered 
tomatoes, celery cut in small pieces, asparagus tips and sliced beets and 
cucumbers. Pour over French Dressing. 

COLD SLAW. 
Cut cabbage fine and soak 1 hour in salt water. Drain. Beat yolks 
of 2 eggs very light, add 1 tablespoonful sugar, y 2 teaspoonful pepper, 
1 teaspoonful salt, y 2 teaspoonful dry mustard. Mix with y 2 cupful 
vinegar. Pour over cabbage and mix well. 

COLD SLAW WITH CREAM DRESSING. 
Cut fine enough cabbage to make 1 quart, and put in salad bowl. 
Beat yolks of 2 eggs very light, add y 2 cupful cream and butter size of 
walnut. Mix with y 2 cupful vinegar. Heat to boiling point, stirring 
constantly; add 1 teaspoonful salt and a little pepper. Pour while hot 
over cabbage. Serve cold. 

CUCUMBER BOATS. 
Cut medium-sized Dill pickles lengthwise in halves, scoop out inside 
(being careful not to break the shells), and chop fine. Mix with some 



100 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

finely chopped boiled tongue, cold veal or chicken, some chopped 
pimolas and a little Mayonnaise Dressing. Fill the shells with this 
mixture and serve. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Pare and slice thin 2 cucumbers, sprinkle with salt, press with 

a plate for 1 or 2 hours. Drain, add thin slices of onion and radishes, a 

little chopped parsley, or mint. Season with pepper, a little sugar, 2 

tablespoonfuls olive oil, and pour over enough vinegar to moisten well. 

EGG SALAD. 
Cut in halves, lengthwise, as many "hard-boiled" eggs as required, 
and arrange on lettuce leaves. Mix 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 mustard spoon- 
ful mustard, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter Y\ 
cupful cream, and yolks of 3 eggs. Add slowly ]/\ cupful vinegar. Cook 
in double boiler until thick. Cool and pour over eggs. 

ENDIVE SALAD. 

Wash endive and dry thoroughly. Separate stalks and cut into long, 
narrow strips. Arrange on lettuce leaves and pour over French 
Dressing. 

FISH SALAD, NO. 1. 

Season 1 cupful cold, cooked and flaked halibut, or haddock, with 
salt, cayenne pepper and lemon juice, and let stand 1 hour. Mix with 
Y2 cupful cold cooked peas, y 2 cupful celery, cut in small pieces. Moisten 
with Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on crisp white lettuce leaves and 
garnish with a wreath of sliced tomatoes. 

FISH SALAD, NO. 2. 
Wash and salt as many bass or perch as required, cover with water, 
season same as for boiled halibut, and boil gently until done. Take out 
center bones and arrange fish on lettuce leaves, cover with Mayonnaise 
Dressing and place around fish, clusters of chopped vegetables. 

HEARTS OF LETTUCE SALAD. 
Wash, drain and dry hearts of lettuce, and cut in halves. Serve 
on individual plates, putting y 2 heart of lettuce on each plate. Pare 
thickly 1 cucumber, cut in thin slices, and place between the lettuce 
leaves. Pour over French Dressing. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 
Remove outside leaves and stalks from white heads of lettuce, cut 
in halves and stand in cold water. Separate leaves, wash and dry thor- 
oughly. Arrange on dish. Mash fine the yolks of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs, 
mix with 2 tablespoonfuls oil, season with a dash of mustard, pepper 
and salt, and a little sugar. Add slowly yi cupful vinegar. Pour over 
lettuce and mix lightly. Chop whites of "hard-boiled" eggs and sprinkle 
over top. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 101 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Remove meat from 2 boiled lobsters, weighing about 4 or 5 pounds. 
Remove stomach, spongy parts and vein which runs through tail. Cut 
meat into cubes. Clean, wash and dry celery, using a little less than 
half as much as of lobster ; cut in pieces and mix with the lobster. Stir 
in about \y 2 cupfuls Mayonnaise Dressing. Line a salad bowl with 
crisp lettuce leaves, add the salad and spread a little Mayonnaise 
Dressing on top. Garnish with "hard-boiled" eggs, olives and a little of 
the lobster coral. 

MACEDOINE SALAD. 

Cook separately, until tender 1 root celery, 2 beets and 1 good- 
sized carrot, and chop fine. Add 15 cooked beans, cut fine, 1 small 
can asparagus tips, 1 small onion, cut fine, and J4 cupful cooked green 
peas. Mix thoroughly with Mayonnaise Dressing Arrange on crisp 
lettuce leaves and serve immediately. The macedoine may also be pur- 
chased in bottles from grocer. 

MALAGA GRAPE SALAD. 
Remove seeds from white grapes. Add an equal quantity of 
English walnut meats, broken in small pieces. Mix with French Dress- 
ing. Arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with green Maraschino 
cherries. Serve with Marshmallow Crackers. 

MARGUERITE SALAD. 
Peel and chill tomatoes, cut in halves crosswise and arrange on let- 
tuce leaves. Remove yolks from "hard-boiled" eggs and put through 
a potato ricer. Cut the whites, with scissors, in thin strips, to resemble 
Marguerite petals, arrange them on the tomatoes, fill the centers with 
the yolks and pour French Dressing over. 

MARSHMALLOW CRACKERS. 
Butter thin crackers, place a marshmallow on top of each and 
brown lightly in oven just before serving. Serve with salad. 

NUT AND FRUIT SALAD. 
Mix equal quantities of shredded fresh pineapple, celery cut in 
small pieces, and grape fruit cut lengthwise in thirds. Add T 4 quantity 
of Pecan or Brazil nuts, cut in pieces. Moisten with Cream Mayonnaise 
Dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE OR GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 
Remove pulp from 2 grape fruit, or 3 oranges (reserving juice for 
salad dressing). Arrange on a platter on white lettuce leaves, and 
pour over French Dressing, using grape or orange fruit juice, instead 
of lemon juice in dressing. Garnish with cheese balls and serve with 
Educators buttered and spread with Bar le Due. 

PINEAPPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 
Mix equal parts of pineapple and celery, cut in pieces. Moisten 
well with Cream Mayonnaise Dressing and fill center of Tomato Jelly 
Ring, (page 102). Garnish with lettuce leaves and celery. 



102 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

POTATO SALAD, NO. 1. 
Cook 1 quart imported potatoes ; cool, remove skins and cut in 
slices. Chop separately 1 small onion, some celery and parsley and mix 
with the potatoes. Season with pepper and salt. Heat enough vinegar 
to moisten well the potatoes, add y$ as much goose or duck fat, or 
olive oil. Remove from range and pour while hot over potatoes. Mix 
lightly with spoon and fork until salad has a glazed appearance. 

POTATO SALAD, NO. 2. 
Chop separately 6 cold boiled potatoes, 1 onion, a little parsley, a 
few strips of red pepper and 3 "hard-boiled" eggs ; season with salt, 1 
tablespoonful vinegar, 1 tablespoonful sweet cream, 1 teaspoonful olive 
oil. Mix well together, then stir in lightly 2 tablespoonfuls Mayon- 
naise Dressing. 

POTATO SALAD, NO. 3. 
Cook until thick in double boiler, 2 beaten eggs and y 2 cupful 
vinegar. Season with 1 scant teaspoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful 
sugar, y 2 teaspoonful salt and a little red pepper. Cool, then add l / 2 
cupful whipped cream. Pour over sliced potatoes. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Soak Y\ box gelatine in y 2 cupful cold water. Cook for ten minutes 
1 can tomatoes, y 2 an onion, 1 stalk celery, 2 cloves, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
tablespoonful granulated sugar and a dash of paprika. Add gelatine, 
stir until dissolved. Strain and put in a ring mold. When cold, re- 
move to round platter. Cut fine some tender stalks of celery and some 
English walnuts. Mix with French or Mayonnaise Dressing. Fill 
center of ring and garnish with lettuce leaves and celery. 

Tomato Jelly may also be used as a border for other salads. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 
Remove a round piece from the stem end of as many tomatoes 
as required. Scoop out the inside, being careful not to break shells. 
Chill thoroughly. Cut the tomato pulp fine, and mix with 6 tablespoon- 
fuls chopped chicken or veal, 6 tablespoonfuls cooked peas, 3 olives and 
3 gherkins, chopped fine, 2 tablespoonfuls capers. Season with salt 
and pepper. Add enough Mayonnaise Dressing to hold mixture to- 
gether. Fill shells, place in nests of lettuce leaves, and cover top of 
each with 1 tablespoonful Mayonnaise Dressing. 

WHOLE TOMATOES WITH MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Skin firm ripe tomatoes and marinate with 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 
mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls oil and seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Chill, drain, arrange on crisp lettuce leaves and cover each tomato with 1 
tablespoonful Mayonnaise Dressing. 

SPANISH SALAD. 
Place six leaves of romaine on each plate. Arrange on leaves, 
alternate eighths of grape fruit, oranges and pears, with strips of red 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 103 

pepper between. Pour over French Dressing, substituting 2 tablespoon- 
fuls fruit juice for vinegar, in dressing. 

VEAL SALAD. 
Substitute cold roast or boiled veal for chicken and follow recipe 
for Chicken Salad. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Mix together equal quantities of celery and apples, cut in small 
pieces, and add a smaller quantity of walnuts or pecans, cut fine. Mix 
thoroughly with Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on lettuce leaves in 
a salad dish, or on individual plates ; or remove tops, and scoop out pulp 
from red or green apples, fill with salad, cover with tops and serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 

BOILED DRESSING, NO. 1. 
Mix together y 2 teaspoonful salt, y 2 tablespoonful mustard, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar ; add yolks of 3 eggs, slightly beaten, 2y 2 tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, 3/i cupful cream, % cupful vinegar. Cook over boiling 
water until thick. 

BOILED DRESSING, NO. 2. 
Cook until thick in double boiler, 2 beaten eggs and J /> cupful 
vinegar. Season with 1 scant teaspoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful 
sugar, a little cayenne pepper and l/ 2 teaspoonful salt. Cool, then add 
y 2 cupful whipped cream. 

DRESSING FOR CREAMED CHICKEN SALAD. 
Heat to boiling point 1 rounding tablespoonful butter mixed with 
y 2 cupful cream; add gradually a rounding teaspoonful cornstarch 
moistened with x /\. cupful cold milk. Cook 5 minutes in double boiler, 
stirring constantly. Add 1 level teaspoonful sugar, a rounding tea- 
spoonful mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, a little cayenne pepper 
and salt. Mix thoroughly, stir in the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, cool, 
then stir in lightly 1 cupful whipped cream. 

FRENCH DRESSING, NO. 1. 
Mix together l / 2 teaspoonful paprika, 1 teaspoonful salt and 1 
teaspoonful sugar. Stir in slowly 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil; add V 2 
teaspoonful onion juice and 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. When well 
blended, pour over salad and mix well. 

FRENCH DRESSING, NO. 2. 
Mix together y 2 teaspoonful red pepper, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 tea- 
spoonful sugar. Add slowly 6 tablespoonfuls oil, then 4 tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, 1 teaspoonful onion and 1 teaspoonful green pepper, chopped 
very fine. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Yolks of 2 raw eggs, 1 pint olive oil, about 2 tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice, l/ 2 teaspoonful salt, a little cayenne pepper, a mustard spoonful 



104 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

mustard. Before mixing, thoroughly chill utensils and ingredients. Beat 
yolks with a silver fork, add dry ingredients, add oil gradually, at first 
drop by drop, stirring constantly. As mixture thickens, thin with lemon 
juice. Continue to add oil and lemon juice alternately until all is used, 
stirring constantly. 

In preparing Mayonnaise, there is no danger of curdling if the eggs 
are fresh and the oil is added slowly, especially if ingredients have been 
chilled. Should it curdle, the addition of a very little white of egg, or 
a few drops of lemon juice, with thorough beating, will cause the 
Mayonnaise to resume its proper consistency. In case it does not thicken, 
put yolk of 1 egg into a chilled bowl, beat it and add, drop by drop, the 
curdled mixture. 

BOILED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Beat yolks of 4 eggs, stir in slowly 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil, 1 
teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful sugar, a dash 
of cayenne pepper, and juice of 3 lemons. Beat whites of 4 eggs until 
stiff and add to mixture. Cook until thick in double boiler, stirring 
constantly. Cool. Just before serving thin with 1 cupful whipped cream. 

CREAM MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Add y 2 cupful thick cream, beaten stiff, to 1 pint Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing. The cream should be added just before serving. 

GREEN MAYONNAISE. 
Mix with Mayonnaise Dressing the green part, or liver of the 
lobster. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 
Mix together 1 cupful sour cream, y 2 cupful vinegar, 1 tablespoon- 
ful sugar, y 2 tablespoonful dry mustard, 1 tablespoonful butter, }/ 2 tea- 
spoonful salt, Yd, teaspoonful pepper; add 1 egg slightly beaten. Cook 
in double boiler until mixture thickens. 



CHAPTER XX. 

HOT PUDDINGS. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and core 6 apples. Scrape out some of the inside from each 
apple and mix with sugar, cinnamon, some grated lemon peel, chopped 
seedless raisins and chopped nuts. Fill cavities with mixture; place 
in well-buttered dish. Pour over y 2 glassful water, y 2 glassful Sherry 
wine and 24 cupful sugar and bake until partly tender, basting fre- 
quently. Cream together 2 tablespoonfuls butter and 1 cupful sugar; 
add beaten yolks of 4 eggs, ^ of a small loaf of bread, which has been 
soaked in milk, juice and grated rind of lemon and the stiffly-beaten 
whites of 4 eggs. Pour this over apples and bake in slow oven about 45 
minutes. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core 6 large tart apples ; scrape out some of the inside 
and mix with sugar, grated lemon peel, chopped seedless raisins and 
chopped nuts. Fill apples with mixture and put in well-buttered pud- 
ding dish. Pour over ]/ 2 glassful Sherry wine, y 2 glassful water and 
24 cupful sugar. Bake until tender, not soft, basting frequently. Beat 
yolks of 4 eggs until light, add 1 cupful sugar; beat well, then stir in 
1 cupful sifted flour to which has been added 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder and a pinch of salt; then add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 
eggs. Pour over apples and bake until firm and brown. Serve hot or 
cold, with sweetened cream. 

BREAD PUDDING, NO. 1. 
Soak y 2 of a 5-cent loaf of baker's bread ; when soft, drain. Beat 4 
eggs until light, add 24 cupful sugar; beat again. Mix with bread, add 
a little cinnamon, a little chopped lemon peel, y 2 cupful currants, y± 
cupful raisins, cut fine, a little sliced citron, a few chopped almonds, and 
y$ cupful finely chopped suet. Mix well together and bake about an 
hour in moderate oven. Serve with Wine Sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING, NO. 2. 
Soak 2 cupfuls bread crumbs (do not use crust) in 1 quart hot 
milk; cool, add y 2 cupful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, y 2 
teaspoonful salt, grated peel of 1 and juice of y 2 lemon, 4 yolks and 
whites of 2 eggs, slightly beaten. Fill buttered pudding dish and bake 
slowly from 30 to 45 minutes. Cover pudding with a Meringue made 
of the 2 remaining whites of eggs, % cupful powdered sugar and 1 
teaspoonful lemon juice. Brown lightly. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 
Butter thickly 3 thin slices of bread. Cut in halves and arrange in 
a buttered pudding dish. Sprinkle with l / 2 cupful currants, a little 



106 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

sliced citron, a little lemon peel, cut fine, a few chopped almonds, and 
% teaspoonful grated nutmeg. Beat 4 eggs with l / 2 cupful sugar, add 
1 quart of milk; flavor with vanilla. Pour over bread and bake in slow 
oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

BROWN BETTY. 
Pare, core and slice 6 large, tart apples. Cover bottom of well- 
buttered pudding dish with bread crumbs ; add a layer of apples, sprinkle 
with currants, chopped almonds, brown sugar and small pieces of butter. 
Repeat until dish is full, having last layer crumbs. Dot with small 
pieces of butter; pour over 1 cupful water, or ]/ 2 cupful water and l / 2 
cupful molasses and bake in moderate oven 1 hour. Serve hot with 
Hard Sauce or sweetened cream. 

CABINET PUDDING. 
Cream together 1 large tablespoonful butter and y 2 cupful sugar; 
add 1 egg. Beat well. Add 1 cupful milk, and 1 cupful sifted flour 
mixed with 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake in quick oven and 
serve with Strawberry Sauce. 

CALIFORNIA SOUFFLE. 
Wash and soak 34 pound dried apricots, ~% pound each of dried 
prunes and peaches ; add %. cupful raisins and cook until soft. When 
partly cooked add sugar to taste. When water is nearly evaporated, rub 
fruit through a sieve, cool and add whites of 5 eggs, beaten stiff. But- 
ter individual moulds, sprinkle with sugar and chopped nuts ; fill moulds 
two-thirds full with mixture, set in pan of hot water and bake in slow 
oven until firm. Remove from moulds and serve with sweetened cream. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful butter, add ]/ 2 pound pulverized sugar, the 
beaten yolks of 9 eggs, %. pound ground almonds, l / 2 pound grated 
chocolate and the stiffly-beaten whites of 9 eggs. Steam \]/ 2 hours in 
covered buttered mould. Serve with Whipped Cream Sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Beat together yolks of 6 eggs, y 2 pound grated Maillard's Chocolate, 

and 1 cupful powdered sugar ; add 1 tablespoonful cracker flour, 1 

tablespoonful vanilla and the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Turn into 

buttered mould, cover and steam 2 hours. Serve with Whipped Cream 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
Cream together yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cupful granulated sugar, 
add 1 cupful grated bitter chocolate, a few chopped almonds, 1 table- 
spoonful flour mixed and sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder, then 
the beaten whites of the 4 eggs. Bake 20 minutes in buttered dish in 
moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 
Grate 2 squares Baker's Chocolate, mix with y 2 cupful water and 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar ; cook in double boiler until smooth. Cool. Beat 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 107 

the whites of 4 eggs until stiff, add 4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
Combine mixtures, turn into a buttered baking dish, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake 20 minutes. Serve with Cream Sauce. 

INDIVIDUAL CHOCOLATE PUDDINGS. 
Put in saucepan on range a little less than y 2 cupful butter, 1 
cupful powdered sugar, % pound German Chocolate (grated) and yolks 
of 6 eggs. Stir briskly for about 6 minutes, remove from range, cool, 
add the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Fill 8 small buttered tin moulds, 
cover, place them in a pan of hot water and bake 30 minutes. Serve 
with Whipped Cream or Custard Sauce. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
Beat 3 eggs until light, add 1 cupful brown sugar, and butter size 
of an egg. Dredge with flour and add 1 cupful raisins, cut fine, y 2 cup- 
ful currants and a little chopped citron; y 2 teaspoonful salt, y 2 cupful 
grated chocolate, y 2 teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in boiling water, 
and flour enough to hold mixture together. Steam 3 hours in covered 
buttered mould. Serve with Cream or Foamy Sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
Cream 1 large tablespoonful butter, add gradually Y^ cupful granu- 
lated sugar. Beat well. Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs and y 2 cupful 
milk; sift and add \y 2 cupfuls flour, \y 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
and l /> teaspoonful salt. Beat well. Add carefully the stiffly-beaten 
whites of 2 eggs ; season with a little nutmeg, or any other flavoring 
desired. Serve hot with Lemon or Hard Sauce. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Beat together, until light, the yolks of 5 eggs and y 2 pound sugar. 
Soak 1 cupful fine cracker crumbs in 1 pint of milk and mix with 
eggs. Add y 2 cupful raisins, ^ cupful currants, 3 ounces chopped 
almonds, % pound suet (chopped very fine), 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
a little grated nutmeg and the stiffly-beaten whites of 5 eggs. Bake in 
buttered pudding dish y> hour. Serve with Wine Sauce. 

APPLE CRACKER PUDDING. 
Cover bottom of pudding dish with a thick layer of Apple Sauce. 
Stir yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cupful sifted granulated sugar ; add 1 cupful 
cracker crumbs, rolled fine and mixed with y 2 teaspoonful baking 
powder and pinch of salt. Stir thoroughly ; add a few chopped almonds 
and whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff. Pour over Apple Sauce and bake in 
moderate oven. 

DATE PUDDING. 
Cream 1 even tablespoonful butter, add gradually y 2 cupful granu- 
lated sugar; add yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cupful chopped dates, y 2 cupful 
chopped raisins, y 2 cupful bread crumbs, y 2 cupful milk, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful allspice, then the stiffly-beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Fill buttered mould, cover, and steam 2 hours. 



108 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

FARINA PUDDING. 
Heat 3 cupfuls milk in double boiler. Dissolve 3 tablespoonfuls 
farina and 3/2 teaspoonful salt in 1 cupful cold milk and pour into the 
hot milk, stirring until it thickens ; add 1 tablespoonful butter. Beat 4 
eggs and ^ cupful sugar together until very light and add to milk; 
stir one minute. Remove from stove, season with vanilla, pour into but- 
tered pudding dish and bake in moderate oven until firm and brown. 

FARINA CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Boil 1 quart milk with t tablespoonful butter, then stir in gradually 
1 cupful farina ; when thick remove from fire and cool. Beat yolks of 4 
eggs until light, add 8 tablespoonfuls sugar, and 2 squares grated 
chocolate, mix well and add to farina. Stir in the stiffly-beaten whites 
of 4 eggs. Pour into buttered mould, cover, and steam 1 hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Mix and sift 1 cupful flour and 1 teaspoonful baking powder ; chop 
and add 1 cupful suet, l /\ pound almonds, $4 pound figs, 2 apples, 
grated peel of ^2 lemon and y 2 orange, the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, y 
cupful milk, 2 slices well-soaked bread, y cupful sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful cloves, a pinch of salt, then the stiffly-beaten 
whites of 4 eggs. Beat well together. Fill buttered mould, cover and 
steam 3 hours. Serve with Wine or Brandy Sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Boil 1 lemon until very soft ; mash through colander. Beat yolks 
of 7 eggs until very light, add 1 cupful sugar, beat again and add to 
lemon. Mix well. Add stiffly-beaten whites of 7 eggs ; mix together 
lightly and bake a few minutes until eggs are set and brown. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 
Prepare same as above, substituting 2 oranges for 1 lemon. 

CHOCOLATE PLUM PUDDING. 
Soak over night ^4 cupful raisins, j/2 cupful currants, and y cupful 
chopped citron in 1 wineglassful brandy. Sift 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder into 1^ cupfuls bread crumbs; add a pinch of salt, 1 cupful 
brown sugar, a little cloves, allspice and cinnamon, y. pound chopped 
blanched almonds, 1 cake grated sweet chocolate, the fruit, 1 scant 
cupful finely chopped suet and lastly 6 eggs. Mix lightly, turn into 
buttered mould and steam 4 hours. Serve with Wine Sauce. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Chop very fine y pound suet. Chop fine l /i pound figs, */£ pound 
citron, y pound almonds ; add 1 pound seedless raisins, V2 pound 
currants. Mix 4 tablespoonfuls flour with fruit, then add suet, grated 
rind and juice of 2 lemons, y 2 cupful brandy, 4 chopped apples, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, and salt, y 2 teaspoonful grated nut- 
meg, 1 pound brown sugar, 1 pound fine bread crumbs, 10 eggs, well 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 109 

beaten. Mix well together, turn into 2 buttered moulds (do not fill 
them), cover, boil steadily 4 hours, and 4 hours longer on the day the 
pudding is to be served. If water evaporates, add more boiling water, 
as pudding should be covered with water during the entire cooking. If 
bag is used, instead of moulds, wet and flour bag, turn in the mixed 
ingredients, tie securely, leaving a little space to allow pudding to swell, 
twist top of bag and tie again to prevent water from getting in bag. 
Plunge into kettle of boiling water and cook as above. 

Decorate pudding with whole blanched almonds, pour over warm 
brandy and light after it is on the table. Serve with Wine Sauce. 

PRUNE WHIP. 
Wash well and soak over night, Y pound dried prunes. Sweeten 
to taste and cook until very soft. Remove stones and rub prunes 
through a strainer. Add stiffly-beaten whites of 5 eggs ; stir until very 
light, then pile lightly on buttered pudding dish and bake 20 minutes 
in slow oven. Serve with sweetened whipped cream. 

STEAMED PRUNE PUDDING. 

Follow recipe for Prune Whip; fill a buttered mould and steam 2 
hours. Serve with cream. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Beat together yolks of 4 eggs and y 2 cupful sugar; add 1 quart 
sweet milk, grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint fine bread crumbs and butter 
size of an egg. Bake. When done, spread a layer of jam or jelly over 
top and cover with a meringue, made of the stiffly-beaten whites of 4 
eggs mixed with y 2 cupful sugar and juice of y 2 lemon. Brown lightly 
in oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

INDIVIDUAL RAISIN PUDDING. 
Mix together \y 2 cupfuls bread crumbs, \ l / 2 cupfuls chopped seed- 
less raisins, l / 2 cupful butter, 1 cupful brown sugar, 2 eggs and J / 2 cupful 
milk. Turn into 10 buttered individual pudding moulds, cover, and 
steam about \ l / 2 hours. Serve with Fruit Sauce. 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING. 
Heat 1 pint of milk in double boiler, add 1 tablespoonful corn- 
starch dissolved in 1 cupful milk. Beat 3 eggs with 1 cupful sugar 
and add to milk. When hot, add Y\ cupful hot cooked rice. Stir until 
mixture thickens. Add rind and juice of y 2 lemon. Pour into buttered 
pudding dish and bake 15 minutes. Cover with a meringue, made of 
stiffly-beaten whites of 3 eggs mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar and a few chopped almonds. Return to oven to brown. 

POOR MAN'S RICE PUDDING. 
Wash y 2 cupful rice, pour boiling water over and let stand 30 
minutes. Drain. Add Y cupful sugar, a little salt and cinnamon, and 
1^2 pints milk. Bake slowly, about 2 hours, in buttered pudding dish, 
stirring occasionally until last half hour. Add 1 tablespoonful butter 
and brown. If desired, a few seedless raisins may be added. 



110 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

SAGO PUDDING. 
Cook in double boiler, Y/\. pound sago with 1 quart milk, until sago 
is clear and has absorbed all milk. Cool, and follow recipe for Tapioca 
Pudding. 

SPANISH PUDDING. 
Break into small pieces y 2 pound stale lady fingers ; mix with *4 
pound grated cocoanut. Scald and sweeten to taste, 1 pint cream, and 
pour over cake and cocoanut. Cool. Add 4 well-beaten eggs. Put 
small pieces preserved ginger on bottom of buttered mould, pour in 
pudding, cover, and steam \ x / 2 to 2 hours. Heat syrup from the ginger, 
add a litle orange juice and Sherry wine and serve with pudding. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. 
Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and y 2 glassful 
strawberry jam or jelly; add whites of 4 eggs, beaten very stiff. Pour 
into buttered mould or pudding dish and bake 10 minutes. Serve im- 
mediately, or the souffle will fall. Serve with Vanilla Sauce. 

SUET PUDDING, NO. 1. 
Soak 2 cupfuls bread crumbs in % cupful milk, add 3 eggs (well 
beaten), 1 cupful brown sugar, Y\ teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, ]/ 2 teaspoonful cloves, ]/ 2 teaspoonful nutmeg, 1 cupful chopped 
suet. Dredge with flour and add 1 cupful currants, 1 cupful seedless 
raisins (cut fine), a little candied lemon peel, orange peel and citron. 
Dissolve 1 teaspoonful soda in a little hot water, pour into 1 cupful 
molasses and add to mixture ; sift in 1 cupful flour ; flavor with 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla and 1 wineglassful Sherry wine. Steam in covered 
mould 3 to Zy 2 hours. 

SUET PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Mix 1 level teaspoonful soda with 1 cupful sour milk and pour 
over 24 cupful finely-chopped suet; add 1 cupful molasses, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful cloves, y 2 teaspoonful 
nutmeg. Dredge with flour and add 1 cupful seedless raisins (cut fine), 
1 cupful currants, a small piece of citron, chopped fine, then about 2>y 2 
cupfuls flour, or enough to make a batter. Turn into buttered mould, 
cover and steam 3 hours. Serve with Brandy or Hard Sauce. 

If sweet milk is used, substitute 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder for 
soda. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Wash and soak y 2 cupful tapioca in cold water over night. Drain, 
add 1 quart milk and cook in double boiler until clear, stirring occasional- 
ly. Beat yolks of 4 eggs with y 2 cupful sugar and add to tapioca. Add 
butter size of an tgg, a teaspoonful vanilla and a little salt; then stir 
in lightly the stiffly-beaten whites of 4 eggs. Fill buttered pudding dish 
and bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 111 

APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Wash and soak l / 2 cupful tapioca over night; drain. Add 2y 2 

cupfuls boiling water and cook in double boiler until clear. Core and 

pare 6 tart apples, place in buttered pudding dish; sprinkle top and 
cavities with ^4 cupful sugar. Pour over tapioca and bake in mod- 
erate oven until apples are soft. Serve with sweetened cream. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

BRANDY SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful sugar, 1 beaten 
egg, y 2 glassful Sherry wine, 1 /a glassful brandy and a little nutmeg. 
Cook over boiling water until thick. 

BRANDY SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful sugar, y 2 cupful 
brandy and y 2 cupful boiling water. Heat over boiling water, stirring 
until very light. Remove from range and stir in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Serve immediately. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 
Stir 1 cupful granulated sugar in iron saucepan, until sugar melts 
and turns brown. Mix the beaten yolks of 2 eggs with y 2 pint sweet 
cream and pour over melted sugar, stirring until sugar is dissolved. 
Remove from range, flavor with vanilla and fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Serve immediately. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 
Heat in double boiler \y 2 cupfuls milk; stir in 2 scant tablespoon- 
fuls flour dissolved in y 2 cupful milk. Cook, stirring constantly until 
thick. Melt 2 ounces chocolate, over hot water, and add to hot milk; 
then add y 2 cupful sugar. Beat yolks of 2 eggs and stir into mixture 
just before removing from range. Then add the 2 whites, beaten until 
stiff. Flavor with vanilla. Serve cold. 

CREAM SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine to 1 
cupful thick cream. Beat until stiff, then add grated nutmeg to taste. 

CREAM SAUCE, NO. 2. 

* 

Cream 4 ounces butter; add gradually y 2 pound brown sugar and 
4 tablespoonfuls sweet cream, and beat until very light. Flavor with 
juice of y 2 lemon or with wine. Heat over boiling water, stirring 
until creamy. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful butter; add gradually y 2 cupful granulated 
sugar; a small wineglassful White or Sherry wine, one beaten egg and 
lastly y 2 pint cream, whipped. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 
Heat 1 pint milk in double boiler. Beat 3 whole eggs and 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar until very light. Stir into hot milk and continue 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 113 

stirring until mixture thickens. Remove from range and season with 
vanilla. Serve cold. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 
Cream %. cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful powdered sugar 
and beat until very light. Add 1 at a time, the unbeaten whites of 2 
eggs and beat again until very light; then add y$ cupful Sherry wine 
and ]/ 2 cupful hot water. Heat over boiling water, stirring constantly 
until foamy, and serve immediately. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

Wash either strawberries, raspberries or blackberries. Heat thor- 
oughly, stirring occasionally; rub through a sieve; sweeten to taste, 
return to range and heat to boiling point. Season with lemon juice or 
wine. Syrup from canned fruit may be heated and substituted for 
fresh juice. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Cream y 2 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful powdered sugar. 
Beat until very light. Pile on dish and grate nutmeg over top. If de- 
sired, 3 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine may be substituted for nutmeg. 

RASPBERRY HARD SAUCE. 
Substitute raspberries for strawberries, and follow recipe for 
Strawberry Hard Sauce. 

STRAWBERRY HARD SAUCE. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful powdered sugar, 
and a small cupful berries. Beat until light and berries are well mashed. 

JELLY SAUCE. 
Heat 1 glassful fruit jelly and y 2 cupful water. Serve hot. 

LEMON SAUCE, NO. 1. 
Cream 2 ounces butter; add gradually 1 cupful sugar, the beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs, juice and rind of 1 large lemon and y 2 cupful boiling 
water. Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens. 

LEMON SAUCE, NO. 2. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful butter ; add gradually 1 cupful sugar, yolks 
of 2 eggs, beaten until light, juice and rind of 1 large lemon, 1 table- 
spoonful cornstarch which has been dissolved in y 2 cupful cold water, 
and 1 cupful hot water. Cook in double boiler, stirring until mixture 
thickens. 

MOCHA SAUCE. 

Beat yolks of 2 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar; add J^ cupful 
strong coffee. Cook in double boiler, stirring until mixture thickens. 
Cool and stir in y 2 pint whipped cream. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 
Beat whites of 3 eggs until stiff; add slowly 1 cupful powdered 
sugar. Stir until thick, then add juice and rind of 2 oranges and of 1 
lemon. Serve immediately. 



114 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 
Wash, hull and mash 1 box strawberries. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter ; add gradually 1 cupful sugar, the beaten white of 1 egg and the 
crushed berries. If desired add more sugar. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 
Mix together yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cupful milk and 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar. Heat to boiling point, remove from fire and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. 

WHITE WINE SAUCE. 

Cook \y 2 cupfuls White wine, y 2 cupful water, y 2 lemon, sliced, a 
few whole cloves, a piece of whole cinnamon, and y 2 cupful sugar. 
Strain slowly into beaten yolks of 4 eggs, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent curdling; then remove from range and add the beaten whites of 
the 4 eggs. 

WINE SAUCE, NO. 1. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful butter; add gradually y 2 cupful granu- 
lated sugar and 1 beaten egg. Beat well; add a small wineglassful 
White or Sherry wine, then stir in y 2 pint whipped cream. 

WINE SAUCE, NO. 2. 
Mix \y 2 cupfuls wine with y 2 cupful water; add y 2 cupful sugar, 
2 slices lemon, 1 teaspoonful flour dissolved in a little water, and yolks 
of 2 eggs, slightly beaten. Cook in double boiler, stirring slowly until 
mixture thickens. Remove from range and add stiffly-beaten whites 
of the 2 eggs. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

COLD PUDDINGS. 

APPLE SNOW. 
Pare, quarter and core 4 good-sized tart apples, steam until soft, then 
rub through a sieve. Add juice of y 2 lemon. Sweeten to taste. Beat 
whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth, add gradually the apples, beating con- 
stantly. Pile lightly in a glass dish, or serve in high glasses. Chill. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Soak y$ box gelatine y 2 hour in Yz cupful cold water, then dis- 
solve in }i cupful boiling water. Add grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice and y 2 cupful sugar. Stir in 1 cupful apple 
which has been cooked and pressed through a sieve. Mix well, and 
set in a pan of ice water, beating until it begins to thicken ; then add 1 
pint cream (whipped). Line a mould with lady fingers; fill with mix- 
ture and cool. 

RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Follow recipe for Apple Charlotte, substituting 1 pint mashed 
strained raspberries and y 2 cupful melted currant jelly or fresh currant 
juice for apples. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, NO. 1. 
Soak % box gelatine % hour in % cupful cold water, then dissolve 
in y 2 cupful hot cream. Set bowl in pan of ice water and stir until 
gelatine begins to thicken. Whip 1 pint sweet cream until stiff, add 
carefully y 2 cupful powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful rose water and % 
glassful Sherry wine; add to the gelatine and stir well together. Line 
glass dish or mould with lady fingers, fill with cream and chill. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, NO. 2. 
Whip 1 pint cream until stiff; add y 2 cupful powdered sugar and 
flavor with vanilla. Line glass dish or mould with lady fingers ; fill with 
cream and chill. 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
Line a mould with lady fingers split in halves and moistened with 
strawberry juice. Fill mould with alternate layers of strawberries 
and whipped cream. Serve very cold. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 
Dissolve 3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch in 1 cupful milk. Heat to boil- 
ing point in double boiler 2 cupfuls milk and Y\ cupful sugar. Add the 
dissolved cornstarch and stir constantly, until mixture becomes thick 
and smooth; then add the stiffly-beaten whites of 5 eggs. Stir about 



116 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

5 minutes; add a pinch of salt and a little vanilla. Fill mould, chill 
and serve with boiled custard made with the yolks of the 5 eggs, 5 
tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 pint milk. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 
Follow recipe for Cornstarch Pudding, adding 1 square of chocolate 
dissolved in a little milk. Cool and serve with whipped cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 
Follow recipe for Cornstarch Pudding, adding *^ of a grated cocoa- 
nut. Fill mould, cool and serve with custard made with the yolks of the 
5 eggs, or with whipped cream. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 
Make same as Cup Custard, pour into a pudding dish and bake in 
moderate oven until firm. Serve cold. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 
Follow recipe for Cup Custard, fill cups and place in kettle of boil- 
ing water, on top of range until custard is set. Chill and serve hot or 
cold. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 
Melt in saucepan y 2 cupful granulated sugar; stir occasionally 
until dark brown. Add y$ cupful boiling water. Stir until smooth. 
Keep hot until ready to use. Beat together yolks of 5 eggs and Yz cup- 
ful powdered sugar. Scald 4 cupfuls milk (or cream) in double boiler. 
Add yolks and sugar. When mixture thickens, remove from fire, stir 
in the beaten whites, and add the caramel. Serve very cold. 

CUP CUSTARD. 
Beat 4 eggs until light; add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. Beat again 
and add 1 quart milk. Flavor with vanilla, or a little grated nutmeg. Fill 
custard cups, set them in pan of warm water, and bake in moderate 
oven until custard is set. Serve cold in the cups. 

STRAWBERRY CUSTARD. 
Place a layer of berries in the bottom of a dish and sprinkle with 
sugar. Then another layer of berries and sugar. Let stand several 
hours, then pour over cold boiled custard and pile whipped cream on 
top. Chill and serve. 

DELMONICO PUDDING, NO. 1. 
Soak T / 3 box gelatine j/ 2 hour in y 2 cupful cold water. Dissolve in 
1 pint hot milk. Add }£ cupful sugar, yolks of 6 eggs, 1 wineglassful 
brandy or Sherry wine and 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Heat in double boiler 
(but do not boil) ; then stir in slowly, beaten whites of 6 eggs. Line 
bottom of dish with macaroons ; add a layer of the mixture, repeat until 
dish is filled. Cool, and serve with whipped cream. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 117 

DELMONICO PUDDING, NO. 2. 
Soak \ J / 2 ounces gelatine l / 2 hour in 3 cupfuls cold milk. Then 
cook a few minutes, stirring constantly. Beat yolks of 4 eggs with 
Y\ cupful sugar, stir in the gelatine ; set the dish on back of range and 
stir until mixture thickens. Cool, add 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla, y 2 wine- 
glassful brandy and the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs. Rub mould 
with a little of the whites of eggs, and put on bottom and sides %. 
pound mixed crystalized cherries and pineapple, cut in thin pieces. Half 
fill mould with custard, cover with a layer of almond macaroons, then 
fill with custard and cool. Garnish with whipped cream. 

JELLY SERVED IN CAKE. 
Hollow out the center of a sponge cake, leaving bottom and sides 
thick enough to hold 1 quart jelly. Make either Lemon or Wine 
Jelly, (if desired, add chopped nuts), and when nearly cold, fill cake. 
When jelly is firm, cover top with whipped cream. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 
Make a custard of 1 pint milk, yolks of 3 eggs, a scant l / 2 cupful 
sugar. When cold flavor with vanilla. Line a glass dish with about y 2 
pound macaroons, dipped in Sherry wine, and pour over the cold cus- 
tard about 1 hour before serving. Beat whites of the eggs very stiff, 
stir in 4 tablespoonfuls Strawberry Jam ; spread on top of custard ; dot 
with jam or chopped almonds and serve very cold. 

APPLE MACAROON PUDDING. 
Pare and core 8 small apples ; steam until tender. While they are 
steaming, cook slowly y 2 cupful water, juice of 1 orange, rind of y 2 
lemon, and y 2 cupful sugar. Remove apples to pudding dish, pour 
syrup over and cool. Beat yolks of 3 eggs with y 2 cupful sugar; add 
1 pint milk. Heat in double boiler. Remove from fire and add 6 rolled 
macaroons and 1 teaspoonful rose water. Pour over apples and bake 
15 minutes in moderate oven. Beat whites of the 3 eggs until very 
stiff, add 3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, spread over top of pudding 
and brown lightly. Serve cold. 

MERINGUE. 
Beat whites of 6 eggs until very stiff; add 2 cupfuls powdered or 
brown sugar and beat again. Flavor with vanilla. Line 2 greased tins 
with paraffine paper, fill with mixture and bake about 2 hours in a very 
slow oven. Remove 1 meringue to platter, spread with whipped cream, 
mixed with chopped nuts and flavored with vanilla. Cover with second 
meringue, and garnish with whipped cream forced through pastry bag 
and tube. The success of the meringue is in the baking. 

PEACH PUDDING. 
Line a pudding dish with rich pie crust, spread over it 2 layers of 
peaches sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven. 
Beat until light the yolks of 6 eggs ; add y 2 cupful sifted sugar, the 



118 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

juice and rind of 1 lemon, ]/ 2 cupful grated almonds, 1 cupful stale 
sponge cake, or lady fingers (grated). Pour this over peaches, cover 
with the stiffly-beaten whites of the 6 eggs and brown in oven. Serve 
cold. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 
Follow recipe for Peach Pudding, substituting pineapple for 
peaches. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 
Follow recipe for Peach Pudding, substituting oranges for peaches. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUT. 

Shell and blanch 1 pound French chestnuts and cook in boiling 
water until tender. Drain and mash through a vegetable press. Add 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Mix well and again 
press through vegetable press. Pile in the center of a flat dish. 
Whip 1 pint cream, flavor with a little wine or 1 teaspoonful strong 
coffee; add 1 tablespoonful sugar. Surround the puree with whipped 
cream and serve. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Soak Yj, box gelatine y 2 hour in Yz cupful cold water; dissolve in 
1 pint boiling water. Add 1^2 cupfuls sugar and juice of 2 lemons or ^2 
cupful Sherry wine and one cupful sugar. Strain and cool. When 
quite thick beat with an egg beater until frothy, then stir in the beaten 
whites of 4 eggs. Dip a pudding mould in cold water, fill with mixture 
and chill. Serve with cold boiled custard, made with the yolks of the 4 
eggs, 1 pint milk and Y cupful sugar, flavored with vanilla. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 
Soak Y box gelatine 1 hour in 24 cupful cold water; add IY 
cupfuls sugar, juice of 2 lemons and grated rind of 1. Pour over 2 
cupfuls boiling water and stir until gelatine is dissolved. Strain 
through a flannel bag. When jelly begins to thicken, pour half into a 
mould that has been wet with cold water; put in a cool place until it 
becomes firm, then cover with a thick layer of Strawberry Jam, or 
preserves and fill mould with remaining jelly. Chill thoroughly. Re- 
move to a flat dish and garnish with whipped cream. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

JELLIES, BAVARIAN CREAMS, MOUSSES, ETC. 

For Jellies and Bavarian Creams, etc., dip mould in cold water 
before pouring in mixture, then cover and chill. 

For Mousses, Frozen Puddings, etc., stand mould in salt and ice 
(using 1 part salt to 2 parts ice) until chilled; then remove cover and 
fill mould with mixture. Cover and let stand 4 hours. 

BISQUE GLAC£. 
Make French Vanilla Ice Cream, (page 127) freeze, add *4 pound 
mixed macaroons, lady fingers and kisses, rolled fine ; flavor with a small 
wineglassful Sherry wine. Mix well, fill mould, pack in ice and salt and 
let stand 2 hours. 

APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Press 1 pint can of apricots through a colander, or stew and sweeten 
1 pint fresh apricots and press through colander. Then proceed same 
as for Pineapple Bavarian Cream, substituting apricots for pineapple. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Soak y 2 box gelatine y 2 hour in y 2 cupful cold water. Grate % 
pound chocolate and cook with 1 pint of milk ; add gelatine and stir 
until dissolved. Remove from range and sweeten with y 2 cupful sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla, cool, stir until it begins to thicken; then fold in 1 
pint cream, whipped. Fill mould and chill. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Soak l / 2 box gelatine y 2 hour in y 2 cupful cold water ; add 1 cupful 
boiling milk, 1 cupful boiling coffee, 1 cupful sugar and stir until sugar 
is dissolved. Strain, cool, then fold in 1 pint cream, whipped. Fill 
mould and chill. 

PEACH BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Substitute peaches for pineapple and follow recipe for Pineapple 
Bavarian Cream. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Soak l / 2 box gelatine y> hour in y 2 cupful cold water. Cook slowly 
1 pint grated pineapple with 1 cupful sugar for y 2 hour. Add gelatine 
and stir until dissolved. Place basin in a pan of snow or cracked ice 
and stir constantly until mixture begins to thicken. Fold in 1 pint 
cream, whipped stiff. Fill mould and chill. Garnish with whipped 
cream. 

RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Use raspberries instead of strawberries, y 2 the quantity of sugar 
and proceed as for Strawberry Bavarian Cream, (page 120). 



120 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Soak y 2 box gelatine y 2 hour in y 2 cupful cold water, then place 
over boiling water to dissolve. Wash, hull and press 1 quart straw- 
berries through a sieve, sweeten with 1 cupful sugar. Strain gela- 
tine into strawberry juice, place dish in a pan of ice or snow, stir until 
mixture begins to thicken, then add 1 pint cream, whipped. Stir well, 
fill mould and chill. 

VANILLA BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Soak y 2 box gelatine in y 2 cupful cold water. Heat in double 
boiler 1 pint cream and y 2 cupful sugar. When sugar is dissolved, re- 
move from range and add to gelatine. Cool, add the well-beaten yolks 
of 4 eggs, stir until thick and smooth, then fold in carefully 1 pint 
cream, whipped. Flavor with 1 tablespoonful vanilla. Fill mould and 
chill. Serve with Strawberry Sauce. 

LEMON CREAM, NO. 1. 

Put in double boiler \y 2 wineglassfuls Rhine wine, Y\ cupful 
granulated sugar, grated rind of 1 lemon, and juice of \y 2 lemons. 
Heat to boiling point, then add beaten yolks of 10 eggs. Stir con- 
stantly until mixture thickens to the consistency of custard ; remove 
from fire and add carefully the stiffly-beaten whites of the 10 eggs. 
Pour immediately into a glass dish and cool. 

Lemon Cream may also be served as a sauce for puddings and 
fritters. 

LEMON CREAM, NO. 2. 
Soak y cupful gelatine y 2 hour in cold water to cover, then dis- 
solve in \]/ 2 cupfuls boiling water. Add juice of 2 lemons and grated 
rind of 1. Cool. Stir yolks of 6 eggs with 1 cupful granulated sugar 
until very light, adding gradually the dissolved gelatine. Stir 5 minutes 
longer, then fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of the 6 eggs. Fill mould 
and chill. 

ORANGE CREAM, NO. 1. 

Soak y 2 box gelatine 1 hour in y 2 cupful cold water; add the 
grated rind of 1 orange. Heat 1 cupful cream in double boiler. Stir in 
the dissolved gelatine. Beat until very light, the yolks of 4 eggs with 
1 cupful sugar. Add to mixture in boiler and stir until it begins to 
thicken. Remove from range and when slightly cool, add strained 
juice of 4 oranges. Put over a pan of cracked ice, and beat until mix- 
ture begins to thicken ; then fold in 1 pint cream, whipped. Dip mould 
in cold water, fill and chill. Garnish with whipped cream. 

ORANGE CREAM, NO. 2. 

Cook rind of 1 orange until very tender, then mash to a pulp ; add 

1 tablespoonful brandy or Sherry wine, the strained juice of the orange 

and l /\ pound loaf sugar. Beat 15 minutes, adding gradually the yolks 

of 4 eggs. Soak 1 tablespoonful gelatine y 2 hour in 1 pint cream. Heat 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 121 

to boiling point, pour over mixture and beat until nearly cold. Fill 
mould and chill. 

VIENNA CREAM. 
Beat yolks of 5 eggs with 1 cupful sifted powdered sugar; add 1 
wineglassful Sherry wine. Put in double boiler, heat slowly to boiling 
point, then stir in quickly the stiffly-beaten whites of the 5 eggs. Re- 
move immediately from fire and serve in glasses. 

WINE CREAM. 
Beat until light yolks of 8 eggs with 8 tablespoonfuls sugar. Add 
\ l / 2 wineglassfuls Sherry wine; pour into double boiler and stir until 
thick. Dissolve 1 ounce gelatine in a little boiling water, cool and add to 
the stiffly-beaten whites of the 8 eggs ; then stir them carefully into the 
yolks; add 6 rolled macaroons. Fill mould and chill. Garnish with 
whipped cream. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

Beat until light yolks of 4 eggs ; add 1 cupful milk, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls mocha. Cook in double boiler, stirring until 
mixture thickens. Cool, add 1 pint cream, whipped. Fill mould, pack 
in ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. 

COFFEE PUDDING. 

Strain 1 cupful coffee and cook with 1 cupful sugar until quite 
thick; remove from range and stir carefully into the well-beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs. Cool, then add 3 cupfuls cream, whipped stiff. Fill mould, 
pack in ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. 

COUP AUX MARRONS. 
Break marron glaces in pieces, flavor with rum, cover and let stand 
1 hour. Put in champagne glasses, allowing \ l / 2 marrons to each glass; 
cover with orange ice, garnish with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored with Maraschino, and place Maraschino cherries on top. 

FRUIT DESSERT. 

Pare pineapple and cut in small pieces. Slice thin 4 bananas. Peel 
5 oranges, quarter and separate quarters in halves. Mix together, 
then add a few canned or fresh Bartlett pears, cut in pieces, y 2 pound 
Malaga grapes, cut in halves and seeds removed, and a small bottle 
Maraschino cherries. Sweeten to taste, then add 1 glassful Sherry wine. 
Serve very cold in a glass dish, or in individual glasses, with orange 
or lemon ice on top. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

Pour y 2 cupful pineapple juice and y> cupful cold water over y 2 
box gelatine and let stand 1 hour; then dissolve in 2 cupfuls boiling 
water. Add \y 2 cupfuls granulated sugar and juice of 2 lemons. Strain. 
Peel and quarter 3 oranges and cut in small pieces ; cut in small pieces 
contents of 1 pint can of pineapple. Mix with y 2 pound candied cher- 
ries. When jelly is nearly firm, stir in the fruit. Fill mould and cool. 
Serve with or without whipped cream. 



122 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

ORANGE JELLY. 
Soak y 2 box gelatine 20 minutes in y 2 cupful cold water. Dis- 
solve in \y 2 cupfuls boiling water. Add y 2 pound loaf sugar, the 
grated rind of 1 orange and of y 2 lemon. When sugar is dissolved, 
strain and add juice of 1 lemon and 2 cupfuls orange juice. Arrange 
some quartered oranges on the bottom of mould, pour over part of the 
jelly, when nearly cold repeat and chill. 

WINE JELLY. 

Dissolve 24 box gelatine in y 2 pint boiling water, and 1 pound cut 
loaf sugar in y 2 pint cold water. When dissolved, mix together and 
add 1 pint wine and juice of 2 lemons. Stir, strain, fill mould and 
chill. 

MARASCHINO PUDDING. 

Beat until light yolks of 2 eggs, with y 2 cupful sugar; add the 
stiffly-beaten whites and 2 cupfuls cream, whipped. Flavor with Sherry 
wine, Maraschino or rum. Separate some lady fingers, line a mould 
with them, put in a layer of above mixture, sprinkle with chopped 
Maraschino cherries, cover with lady fingers. Repeat until mould is 
filled. Cover, pack in salt and ice and let stand 3 hours. Chopped 
pineapple or marrons may be substituted for Maraschino cherries. 

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE. 
Melt y 2 pound sweet chocolate in y 2 cupful milk ; add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls granulated sugar and cook until thick. Cool, add 2 beaten eggs. 
Stir well, then add 1 pint cream, whipped. Fill mould, pack in ice and 
salt and let stand 4 hours. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 
Use 1 cupful boiled coffee (not too strong) instead of fruit juice, 
and follow recipe for Strawberry Mousse, (page 123). 

FRUIT MOUSSE. 
Soak %. box gelatine y 2 hour in % cupful cold water. Prepare 
1 pint of any fruit juice, or mixture of juices ; allow 1 pint sugar. Beat 
yolks of 4 eggs ; add half the sugar, then the fruit juice and the re- 
maining sugar. Strain it into a pan, set in a dish of ice or snow. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in a little boiling water and strain into the mixture. 
Stir constantly and as it begins to thicken add 1 pint cream, whipped. 
Fill mould, pack in ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. 

MACAROON MOUSSE. 
Whip 1 pint cream, add 4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful vanilla, 2 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine, 
1 tablespoonful gelatine dissolved in a little Sherry wine, and y 2 
dozen macaroons, rolled fine. Fill mould, pack in ice and salt and let 
stand 4 hours. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 123 

MARSHMALLOW MOUSSE. 
Whip 1 quart cream ; add ]/ 2 pound marshmallows cut in quarters ; 
24 cupful Maraschino cherries, and y 2 cupful pecan nuts, chopped. Mix 
well together, fill mould, cover, pack in ice and salt and let stand 4 
hours. Garnish with marshmallows. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 
Cook the beaten yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cupful maple syrup until 
mixture thickens ; then set in a pan of cold water and beat until creamy. 
Mix carefully with 1 pint cream (whipped). Fill mould, cover, pack 
in ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. 

ORANGE MOUSSE. 
Soak Yz box gelatine y 2 hour in y 2 cupful cold water. Set in pan 
of hot water until gelatine is dissolved. Add juice of 1 lemon to %. 
cupful orange juice and pour over 1 cupful powdered sugar. Stir until 
dissolved, then add to gelatine. Set in pan of ice water and beat until 
it begins to thicken, then add 1 pint cream, whipped. Fill mould, 
cover, pack in salt and ice and let stand 4 hours. 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE. 
Wash and hull 1 box berries, sprinkle with 1 cupful sugar, let 
stand 1 hour; then press through sieve. Soak % box gelatine y 2 hour 
in 4 tablespoonfuls cold water; then set in a pan of hot water until 
gelatine is dissolved. Add strawberry juice and a few berries, cut in 
halves, then 1 quart cream (whipped). Fill mould, cover, pack in 
salt and ice and let stand 4 hours. 

RASPBERRY MOUSSE. 

Use raspberries instead of strawberries, and follow recipe for 
Strawberry Mousse. 

FROZEN RICE PUDDING. 

Add l /i cupful rice and y 2 teaspoonful salt to 1 quart water and 
cook until rice is soft, then press through colander. Soak y> box gela- 
tine y 2 hour in y 2 cupful cold water, then dissolve in y 2 cupful hot 
water. Add rice, 1 cupful pineapple, chopped very fine, and y 2 cupful 
sugar. Stir until it begins to thicken, then add 1 pint whipped cream. 
Wet mould, pour in mixture and chill. Serve with sauce. 

PINEAPPLE WHIP. 
Remove skin and eyes from small pineapple, grate and put on a 
sieve to drain. Beat whites of 4 eggs slightly; add gradually ]/ 2 cupful 
powdered sugar, beating constantly until stiff. Whip_ 1 pint cream, mix 
carefully with the beaten whites and into this stir gradually the grated 
pineapple. Serve very cold in individual glasses, or in a glass dish. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

ICE CREAMS, ICES AND OTHER FROZEN 
DESSERTS. 

TO FREEZE ICE CREAMS, ICES, SHERBETS, ETC. 

Put ice in a burlap bag and pound with a mallet until fine. Before 
freezing mixture, see that the dasher is in the right place, and turn 
crank to make sure that can fits in socket, then pour in mixture. The 
can should never be more than Ya filled, as the mixture increases in 
bulk during freezing. Pack ice and rock salt around can, allowing 
3 parts ice to 1 of rock salt and repeat until ice and salt come to top 
of can. Turn crank slowly and steadily at first, then more rapidly, 
adding more ice and salt, if needed. Never draw off salt water until 
mixture is frozen, unless there is danger of it getting into the can, for 
salt water is what effects freezing ; until ice melts, no change will take 
place. When mixture is frozen, drain off the water, remove crank, 
wipe the cover of can, remove it, take out dasher, and with spoon 
pack solidly. Cover can and put cork in opening of cover. Re-pack 
freezer with salt and ice, using 1 part salt to 4 of ice, cover top with 
newspapers or a piece of carpet and let stand 2 hours in cool place. 

When ready to serve, remove can, wipe carefully, and put it in 
cold water for 1 minute. Remove cover, run a knife around edge of 
cream, invert can on platter and mixture will slip out. If it does 
not, wring a cloth out of hot water and put around the can for a 
moment. 

GLACIA DORfi. 
Line a mould with Vanilla Ice Cream, (page 126). Fill center with 
the following mixture: One pint cream, beaten until stiff, y 2 cupful 
powdered sugar, 1 cupful pineapple dice soaked in 1 tablespoonful 
Kirsch, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and 1 jar Bar le Due. Cover with the ice 
cream, cover mould and pack in salt and ice 2 hours. 

ORANGE GLACfi. 

Boil 1 cupful water and 2 cupfuls sugar until thick; add 1 pint 
orange juice. 

Make a custard of 1 cupful rich milk and yolks of 2 eggs. Cool. 
Mix with orange mixture, then add y 2 pint cream, whipped. Freeze. 
Add Y* cupful candied orange peel, chopped very fine, mix thoroughly, 
fill mould, cover, pack in salt and ice and let stand 2 hours. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 125 

PINEAPPLE GLACE. 
Follow recipe for Orange Glace, (page 124) substituting pineapple 
juice and chopped pineapple for orange juice and chopped orange peel. 

BAKED ALASKA. 
Beat whites of 6 eggs until very stiff; add gradually 6 tablespoon- 
fuls powdered sugar and beat again; then add y 2 tablespoonful lemon 
juice and 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Fill a 2-quart mould almost full with 
ice cream, cover with the beaten eggs, place mould on a board and 
put in a very quick oven to brown. The meringue and board prevent 
the heat from melting the ice cream. Or, if desired, instead of serving 
cream in a mould, cover board with white paper, place on it a thin 
layer of sponge cake, spread ice cream from a 2-quart mould over 
this, cover smoothly with the meringue and brown in quick oven. 

ALMOND ICE CREAM. 

Brown in oven y pound blanched almonds. Then pound very 
fine. Heat in double boiler, 1 pint cream and 1 cupful sugar. When 
sugar is dissolved, remove from range, cool, add almonds and 1 pint 
cream, whipped; flavor with 1 small glassful Sherry wine and 1 table- 
spoonful vanilla. Freeze. Fill mould, cover, pack in ice and salt and 
let stand 2 hours. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Mash 4 large bananas, add juice of 1 lemon and proceed same as 
for Peach Ice Cream, (page 126). 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 
Heat y cupful sugar in an iron spider, stirring constantly until it 
melts and browns. Make a custard of y 2 pint milk, y> cupful sugar 
and 2 eggs ; add the caramel slowly to the hot custard, then remove 
from stove. Cool, add 1 pint cream, whipped, a pinch of salt, and 1 
tablespoonful vanilla. Freeze, and let stand 2 hours. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 
Heat l /i pound chocolate, 1 cupful sugar and 1 pint cream in 
double boiler, stirring constantly until smooth. Strain, cool, add 1 
pint cream, \y 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla, and freeze. 

MAPLE ICE CREAM. 
Heat 1 cupful maple syrup to boiling point, then pour slowly over 
3 beaten eggs. Cook in double boiler until thick, stirring constantly. 
Cool, add 1 pint cream, whipped, and freeze. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 
Make French Vanilla Ice Cream. When frozen, divide cream in 
2 parts. Have ready 2 squares of sweet chocolate dissolved in a little 
milk, and cooled. Add chocolate to y 2 the cream, and pack in mould, 
then cover with a layer of orange or lemon ice. Color the other half 
of cream with pistachio, and flavor with almond extract; add y> cupful 



126 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

pounded macaroons, or ]/ 2 cupful rolled pistachio nuts, and fill the 
mould. Cover, pack in ice and salt and let stand 2 hours. 

NOUGAT ICE CREAM. 
Melt 1 cupful sugar in iron spider. Brown ^2 cupful blanched 
almonds and x / 2 cupful English walnuts in the sugar, then pour into 
a greased dish to cool. When cold, pound and roll very fine. Make 
French Vanilla Ice Cream ; freeze and add the rolled nuts. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 
Heat in double boiler 1 pint cream and \y 2 cupfuls sugar. When 
sugar is dissolved remove from range, cool, add juice and rind of 4 
sweet oranges and 1 pint cream, whipped. Freeze. Remove dasher, 
cover, repack, and let stand 2 hours. 

PEACH OR APRICOT ICE CREAM. 
Peel and mash 1 quart ripe peaches or apricots and sprinkle 
lightly with sugar. Prepare Vanilla Ice Cream and when nearly 
frozen, add fruit. Turn crank rapidly a few minutes, remove dasher, 
cover, repack and let stand 2 hours. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 
Grate 1 ripe pineapple and sprinkle with 1 cupful sugar; add 
juice of 1 lemon and let stand Yi hour. Make Vanilla Ice Cream. 
When almost frozen, add pineapple, and finish freezing. Remove 
dasher, cover, repack, and let stand 2 hours. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 
Sprinkle 1 quart raspberries very lightly with sugar, add juice 
of 1 lemon and proceed same as for Strawberry Ice Cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Wash and hull 1^2 boxes strawberries, sprinkle with sugar and 
let stand 1 hour, then mash. Make French Vanilla or Vanilla Ice 
Cream. When almost frozen add fruit and finish freezing. Remove 
dasher, cover, repack and let stand 2 hours. 

If fresh berries cannot be obtained, use contents of 1 pint can of 
strawberries. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 
Make custard of 1 pint milk, 3 eggs and 1% cupfuls sugar. Re- 
move from range, cool, and add 1 quart cream, whipped. Freeze. Stir 
in 1 pound candied fruit, chopped very fine, juice of 1 lemon and 4 
tablespoonfuls Sherry wine. Mix thoroughly, fill mould, repack in 
salt and ice and let stand 2 hours. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 
Put in double boiler 1 pint cream and 1 cupful sugar; stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Remove from range, cool, add another pint of 
cream and 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla and freeze. Remove dasher, re- 
pack, cover and let stand 2 hours. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 127 

FRENCH VANILLA ICE CREAM. 
Heat Yi pint milk in double boiler. Mix y 2 cupful sugar, 1 beaten 
egg, 1 tablespoonful flour, and add to milk. Cook until thick. Re- 
move from range, add J^ cupful sugar. Cool. Add 1 pint cream 
(whipped), and 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla; mix well and freeze. 

ICED STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Make a custard of 3 eggs, 1 pint milk and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Cool. Stir in 2 ounces crushed macaroons and 3 ounces powdered 
sugar. Whip y 2 pint cream and add to mixture. Flavor with vanilla. 
Freeze. 

Hull 1 pint strawberries. Fill a mould with alternate layers of 
the frozen custard and strawberries ; cover, pack in salt and ice, and 
let stand 2 hours. Serve with whipped cream or Strawberry Sauce. 

LEMON ICE. 

Make a syrup of 1 quart water and 3 cupfuls sugar; add grated 
rind of 3 lemons and of 1 orange. Boil 5 minutes, cool, then add 
juice of 4 large lemons and of 1 orange. Strain and freeze. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 
Beat yolks of 3 eggs, add 1 cupful maple syrup. Cook in double 
boiler until thick. Cool, then add 1 pint cream, whipped very stiff. 
Freeze. Serve in glasses and garnish with whipped cream. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Shell and blanch y 2 pound French chestnuts, cook in boiling water 
until soft, then press through sieve. 

Make a custard of 1^ pints sweet cream, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cupful 
sugar and y 2 teaspoonful salt. Stir in the chestnuts, cool, then freeze 
10 minutes. Add 1 pint cream (whipped), and finish freezing. Chop 
Yz pound candied fruit, *4 cupful raisins, and mix with 4 tablespoon- 
fuls Sherry wine and 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Let stand until cream 
is frozen, then mix well with the cream. Fill mould, cover, pack in 
ice and salt and let stand 2 hours. 

ORANGE ICE. 
Boil 20 minutes 1 quart water and 2 cupfuls sugar; add juice of 
5 oranges and 1 lemon; and the grated rind of 2 oranges. Cool, 
strain and freeze. 

CALIFORNIA FROZEN PUNCH. 
Boil 1 quart water with 1 pound sugar 10 minutes. Cool, add 
juice of 4 lemons and of 3 oranges, grated rind of 1 lemon and of 1 
orange, 1 cupful canned pineapple juice, and y 2 cupful canned straw- 
berry juice. Rub 1 can apricots through a sieve and add pulp and 
juice to mixture. Freeze to a mush, then add 1 pint sweet cream and 
finish freezing. Let stand 2 hours. 



128 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

TORTONI PUDDING. 
Scald 1 pint milk in double boiler; add 1 tablespoonful flour, dis- 
solved in milk; 1 egg and 1 cupful sugar beaten together. Cook until 
mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add %. pound chopped almonds, 
7 macaroons (grated), and a little vanilla. Cool. Add 1 pint whipped 
cream. Freeze. Fill mould, cover, pack in salt and ice and let stand 
2 hours. 

FROZEN MILK PUNCH. 
Mix 1 quart milk and y 2 pound sugar. Partly freeze. Add 1 
glassful rum, y 2 glassful brandy, l / 2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg and 

1 pint cream, whipped, and continue freezing. Remove dasher, cover 
and let stand 2 hours. 

LALLA ROOKH PUNCH. 
Heat in double boiler 1 quart milk. Beat yolks of 8 eggs with 1 
pound sugar, stir into the hot milk and heat to boiling point. Cool. 
Add 1 quart cream. Partly freeze, then add y 2 cupful rum and finish 
freezing. Serve in glasses. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 
Follow recipe for Strawberry Sherbet, (page 129) substituting rasp- 
berries for strawberries, and using juice of 2 lemons instead of 1. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 
Cook 1 quart water with 1 pound sugar 20 minutes; add rind of 

2 lemons, juice of 1 lemon, and of 2 oranges, y 2 cupful rum and 1 
cupful champagne. Freeze and serve in glasses. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET. 
Cook 1 quart cranberries until soft, then press through sieve. Boil 
1 pint sugar and 1 pint water 10 minutes; add to cranberry pulp, cool 
and freeze. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Cook 1 quart water and 2y 2 cupfuls sugar 20 minutes. Cool, and 
add grated rind of 1 orange. 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs until light and add to the juice of 4 large 
oranges and 2 lemons. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful gelatine in y 2 cupful 
cold water. Mix all together and freeze. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Mix 2y 2 cupfuls sugar with 1 quart water and boil 15 minutes. 
Grate 2 pineapples, press pulp through a sieve, add juice of pineapple 
and of 2 lemons to the syrup. Cool, pour into freezer, turn dasher 
rapidly and steadily until mixture is almost frozen. Remove dasher, 
add the stiffly-beaten white of 1 egg mixed with 1 tablespoonful 
powdered sugar. Beat well, cover, and let stand 2 hours. 

If desired, 1 quart of canned pineapple may be used instead of 
fresh. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 129 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 
Boil 1 pint water and 1 pint sugar 10 minutes ; add 2 quarts fresh, 
ripe strawberries, mashed, and juice of 1 lemon. Cool, strain and 
freeze. 

WHITE VELVET SHERBET. 
Soak the thinly-shaved peel of 2 lemons Y* hour in the juice of 
6 lemons. Strain, then add enough sugar to thicken. ( It requires about 
a cupful to each lemon). Add 3 pints milk, then freeze. Let stand 2 
hours before serving. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
PASTRY, PIES, CHARLOTTES, ETC. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Sift 4 scant cupfuls flour and 1 teaspoonful salt on a marble slab 
or on a large round platter, make a hole in center of flour and pour 
in carefully 1 beaten egg which has been mixed with fy cupful ice wa- 
ter. Stir lightly with a knife or with the tips of the fingers, and slowly 
work in the flour, adding, if necessary, a little more ice water. 

Put 2 cupfuls butter in a bowl of cold water and work well with 
the hands until soft and elastic, first washing the hands in hot water 
then in cold, to prevent butter from adhering to them. Place dough 
on a well-floured board, and divide it in 2 parts ; roll each part in a square 
sheet about % inch thick; break butter in pieces and place on one of 
the sheets of dough, dredge thickly with flour, cover with the other 
sheet, pound lightly with rolling pin, then roll out, from you, into a 
lengthwise sheet, fold sides and ends, turn dough half way around, 
pound lightly again. Repeat twice as above. Dredge board with flour, 
when necessary to prevent dough from sticking. Cover and place in 
cold place until thoroughly chilled; then roll out and fold again, three 
times, and put again on ice. Mixing bowl and flour should be thor- 
oughly chilled before using. The paste should be very cold before 
putting in hot oven. Use as little flour as possible in rolling out paste. 

RICH PIE PASTE. 
Sift iy 2 cupfuls pastry flour and 1 teaspoonful salt into a bowl; 
work in lightly with a knife, ]/ 2 cupful chicken fat, mixed with y 
cupful butter. Moisten to a dough with ice water (about *4 cupful). 
Turn on to a floured board, pound lightly with rolling pin and roll 
from you into a lengthwise sheet Y\ inch thick; fold sides and ends, 
turn paste half way around, roll again from you. Repeat 3 times, 
then put in cold place for about 1 hour. Use as little flour as possible 
for rolling out paste. All the materials should be very cold and the 
paste handled as little as possible. Roll only enough paste at one time 
to cover pie plate. 

PLAIN PASTE. 

Take \y 2 cupfuls sifted flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, x / 2 cupful lard, 
y cupful butter and proceed same as for Rich Pie Paste. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Roll rich paste thin, then cut in squares. Enclose in each square 
a medium-sized tart apple, peeled, cored and filled with raisins, cur- 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 131 

rants, chopped citron, chopped almonds, lemon peel, sugar and cinnamon. 
Brush the outside with melted butter and sprinkle with brown sugar. 
Spread sides and bottom of baking pan thickly with butter, sprinkle 
with y 2 cupful brown sugar; put in dumplings and bake in moderate 
oven until done. Arrange on platter and pour over them syrup from 
the pan. 

APPLE PIE. 
Line pie plate with paste. Pare, core, and slice about 4 tart 
apples, fill plate, sprinkle with y 2 cupful sugar, season with nutmeg or 
cinnamon, a little lemon juice and chopped peel of lemon; dot over with 
bits of butter. Roll out a piece of dough a little larger than the top 
of the pie, make 3 gashes in the center, wet edge of lower crust, put 
on the upper, press edges together and bake y 2 hour in a quick oven. 

CHEESE PIE. 
Line a deep pie plate with rich paste and fill with cheese mixture 
made same as for Cheese Pie (Kuchen), (page 139). Bake in moderate 
oven. 

CHERRY PIE, NO. 1. 
Follow recipe for Currant Pie, No. 1, (page 132) substituting 2 
cupfuls stoned sour cherries for currants and raspberries. 

CHERRY PIE, NO. 2. 

Follow recipe for Currant Pie, No. 2, (page 132) substituting cher- 
ries for currants. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Line a deep pie plate with rich paste and bake a light brown. 
Melt 1 square chocolate in 1 cupful milk. Beat together yolks of 3 
eggs, and 1 cupful sugar ; add 1 tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in 
a little milk ; add to the milk and chocolate, and cook until thick, stir- 
ring constantly; remove from range and cool. Beat whites stiff, add 
half to mixture, fill pie, cover with remaining half of whites, sweetened 
to taste, and brown lightly in oven. 

COCOANUT PIE. 
Beat until light, 3 eggs with y 2 cupful sugar; add 1 pint milk, 1 
cupful grated fresh cocoanut and juice of y> lemon. Line deep pie 
plate with paste, fill with mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

CUSTARD PIE. 
Line a deep pie plate with rich paste and pour in custard made of 
3 eggs, \y 2 cupfuls milk, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, a pinch of salt, a 
little grated nutmeg, and lemon or vanilla flavoring. Bake in mod- 
erate oven until custard is set and paste is brown. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 
Wash \y 2 cupfuls cranberries, put in saucepan with y 2 cupful 
water and ^ cupful sugar and cook 10 minutes. Cool. Line a pie 
plate with paste, pour in cranberries, put strips of paste across top, 
and bake in hot oven. 



132 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

CURRANT PIE, NO. 1. 
Line deep pie plate with paste. Mix 1 cupful sugar with 1 cupful 
currants and 1 cupful red raspberries. Fill pie plate, sprinkle with 1 
tablespoonful flour, cover with top crust and bake in hot oven until 
crust is brown. 

CURRANT PIE, NO. 2. 

Mix 2 cupfuls currants with \ l / 2 cupfuls sugar; add yolks of 2 
eggs which have been mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Line a 
deep pie plate with paste, fill with mixture, dot with bits of butter, 
and bake in hot oven. Cool. Add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar to the beaten 
whites of the 2 eggs, and spread over pie. Return to oven and brown 
lightly. 

LEMON PIE, NO. 1. 

Line a deep pie plate with rich paste, prick paste with fork to 
prevent blistering. Bake and fill with lemon filling made as follows : 

Beat until light the yolks of 6 eggs with \% cupfuls sugar; add 
juice and grated rind of 2 large lemons. Cook in double boiler until 
mixture thickens, stirring slowly and constantly, then add stiffly- 
beaten whites of the 6 eggs ; mix thoroughly, fill pie, and brown lightly 
in oven. If a small pie is required, use a smaller pie plate and make 
filling of 4 eggs, \y 2 lemons and 1 cupful sugar. 

LEMON PIE, NO. 2. 
Line a deep pie plate with rich paste and bake a light brown. 
Heat in double boiler 1 cupful water, 1 cupful sugar and the grated 
rind and juice of 2 lemons. Beat yolks of 4 eggs until very light, add 
gradually the boiling lemon juice and return to boiler. Dissolve 1 
teaspoonful cornstarch in a little cold water; add this and 1 table- 
spoonful butter to the boiling mixture. When ft thickens, remove from 
range and cool. Beat whites of the 4 eggs to a stiff froth, add half to 
lemon mixture, reserving the other half for the top of pie. Fill pie 
with mixture. Add powdered sugar to taste to the remaining beaten 
whites of eggs, spread over top of pie and brown lightly in oven. 

AUSTRALIAN LEMON PIE. 

Line deep pie plate with rich paste and bake until light brown. 
Mix the juice of 4 lemons, the grated rind of 2 lemons and 1 pound 
sugar with *4 pound butter slightly softened. Reserve the whites of 
3 eggs for the meringue. Beat yolks of 6 eggs and remaining 3 whites 
and add to other ingredients. Put in double boiler and cook until mix- 
ture thickens, stirring constantly. Fill pie, cover with meringue made 
of the whites of the 3 eggs beaten to a froth and sweetened. Brown 
lightly in oven. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a deep pie plate with rich paste and bake until a light brown. 
Heat 1 cupful milk in double boiler; add 1 tablespoonful flour dis- 
solved in a little water. Stir until thick; add 1 tablespoonful butter. 
Remove from range; add the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. Beat 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 133 

yolks of 4 eggs with ^4 cupful sugar and add to mixture. Fill plate, 
bake in moderate oven and cool. Cover with meringue made of the 
beaten whites of the 4 eggs, mixed with 3 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar. Brown lightly in oven. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Boil until tender in a very little water 2 pounds lean beef, and let 
stand until cool in the water in which it was cooked. Chop meat fine, 
add the stock, season with salt and mix it with twice the amount of 
finely-chopped apples. Shred, dredge with flour and chop fine 24 pound 
suet ; cut in halves 3 pounds seedless raisins ; chop fine ]/ 2 pound citron 
and 1 pound almonds. Combine mixtures, then add 2 pounds cur- 
rants, 3 pounds sugar, juice of 2 oranges and of 2 lemons, grated rind 
of 1 lemon and 1 orange, 1 cupful quince preserves, 1 glass strawberry 
jam, y 2 tablespoonful each of cloves, mace and allspice, 2 tablespoonfuls 
cinnamon, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful pepper, salt to taste. Mix 
thoroughly and moisten with 1 cupful spiced vinegar from any sweet- 
pickled fruit. Cook slowly 1 hour; add 1 pint Sherry wine and y 2 
pint brandy. Fill fruit cans and seal. When ready to use mince meat, 
if it is too thick, add a little sweet cider, or vinegar from sweet- 
pickled fruit. 

MINCE PIE. 

Line deep pie plate with rich paste, fill with mince meat, cover 
with top crust and bake in hot oven until brown. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 
Line deep pie plate with rich paste. Pare, core and chop fine 
about 6 large tart apples ; add 1 cupful seedless raisins, y 2 pound 
chopped citron, y 2 cupful currants, the juice and chopped rind of 1 
orange and of 1 lemon, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and 
mace, and a little salt. Sweeten to taste. Fill plate, cover with top 
crust and bake in hot oven until brown. 

ORANGE PIE. 
Cream % cupful butter ; add gradually l / 2 cupful sugar, the beaten 
yolks of 4 eggs, the grated rind and juice of 2 oranges. Mix thor- 
oughly, then add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs. Line deep 
pie plate with rich paste, pour in mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
Follow recipe for Squash Pie, (page 134) substituting steamed 
pumpkin for squash. Or canned pumpkin may be used instead of fresh, 
and is equally good. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 
Beat 2 eggs until very light; add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful flour and 1 pint sour cream. Line pie plate with rich paste, 
fill with mixture and bake in moderate oven. 



134 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
Wash and cook 3 good-sized sweet potatoes. Pare and mash, 
then add y cupful butter, juice of y 2 lemon, y 2 cupful sugar, 1 cup- 
ful cream. Mix thoroughly, add 3 well-beaten yolks of eggs, 1 
wineglassful Sherry wine, y teaspoonful grated nutmeg and the 
stiffly-beaten whites of the 3 eggs. Line pie plate with rich paste, 
pour in mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

SQUASH PIE. 
Cool 1 pint steamed and strained squash ; mix with 1 y cupfuls 
cream, y teaspoonful each of mace, ginger, cinnamon and salt, 1 cup- 
ful sugar, or more if desired, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, and 3 eggs 
beaten until very light. Line a deep pie plate with paste, fill with 
mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

APPLE STRUDEL. 
Mix 1 pint flour, y 2 teaspoonful salt and 1 tablespoonful sugar and 
sift into a bowl. Beat 1 egg, add about y 2 cupful luke-warm water, 
and stir into flour with a knife, then place on board and work with 
the hands, until dough is elastic, and does not stick to the hands or 
board. Cover dough with a hot bowl and keep in a warm place while 
preparing fruit. Slice thin 8 tart apples. Cut y 2 cupful seedless 
raisins, add y cupful currants, y cupful chopped almonds, and rind of 
y 2 lemon, chopped fine. Place dough on a well-floured tablecloth and 
pull gently with the hands until as thin as possible, and about the 
size of the top of the table ; brush with melted butter and spread sliced 
apples and mixed ingredients evenly over dough ; sprinkle with a 
little cinnamon and y cupful sugar. Take hold of tablecloth with 
both hands, holding it high, so the dough will roll over and over like 
a jelly roll. Trim edges, cut roll in thirds or length of pan, slide rolls 
into buttered pan, brush top with melted butter and bake in mod- 
erate oven, until brown and crisp. 

ALMOND TARTLETS. 
Beat together until light, yolks of 2 eggs and y> cupful sugar; 
add % pound ground almonds, the stiffly-beaten whites of the 2 eggs, 
and the juice and rind of y 2 lemon. Line patty pans with puff paste, 
fill with mixture and bake until brown in quick oven. 

CHEESE TARTLETS. 
Line patty pans with puff paste, fill with cheese mixture, made 
same as for Cheese Pie (Kuchen), (page 139) and bake in quick oven. 

CRANBERRY TARTS. 
Line patty pans with rich paste, fill with cranberries cooked as for 
Cranberry Pie, (page 131) and bake in hot oven. 

LEMON BUTTER FOR TARTLETS. 
Heat in double boiler the juice of 4 lemons, the grated rind of one, 
3 cupfuls sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls butter. When dissolved and 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 135 

clear, add 4 beaten eggs and stir until mixture thickens. Cool. Keep 
in covered jar until needed. 

LEMON TARTLETS. 
Line patty pans with puff paste, bake in quick oven until light 
brown. Cool. Fill with Lemon Butter, cover with meringue and 
brown lightly in oven. 

STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY TARTLETS. 

Line patty pans with puff paste and bake. Cool, fill with fresh 
strawberries or raspberries, sprinkle with sugar and cover with whipped 
cream. 

Peaches, huckleberries or stewed apples may be substituted for 
strawberries or raspberries. 

WHIPPED CREAM TARTLETS. 
Line patty pans with puff paste and bake in quick oven. Cool, fill 
with sweetened whipped cream, flavored with Maraschino and put a 
cherry on top of each tartlet. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE, NO. 1. 
Soak y 2 of a small loaf of white bread and press dry. Add y 2 pound 
suet, chopped very fine, 6 apples, sliced thin, 1 cupful sugar, y 2 cupful 
raisins cut in halves, %. cupful currants, grated rind of 1 lemon, y 2 cup- 
ful chopped almonds, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, % 
teaspoonful each of mace and salt. Add the beaten yolks of 6 eggs. 
Mix well, then add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 6 eggs. Bake 1 hour 
in moderate oven. Serve hot with Wine or Lemon Sauce. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE, NO. 2. 
Butter thickly the bottom and sides of an iron spider or pudding 
dish, sprinkle with y 2 cupful brown sugar, then line with rich paste. 
Cover with a thick layer of chopped tart apples, chopped almonds, j^ 
cupful seedless raisins, % cupful currants, juice and chopped rind of 
y 2 lemon, small piece citron, sliced thin, 1 scant teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon and cloves, % teaspoonful grated nutmeg, y 2 cupful sugar. 
Cover with a thin layer of paste, add another layer of above ingre- 
dients and 1 wineglassful wine or water, dot with butter, cover with 
paste and bake from 45 minutes to 1 hour in moderate oven. 

MATZO CHARLOTTE. 
Soak 4 matzos in water, drain, and press dry. Add y 2 cupful finely- 
chopped suet, y 2 cupful seedless raisins, }4 cupful currants, % cupful 
chopped almonds, juice and chopped rind of 1 lemon, a small piece of 
citron, chopped fine, 1 cupful sugar, y> teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon. Mix well, then add 4 well-beaten eggs. Fill a buttered iron 
spider or pudding dish and bake 1 hour in moderate oven. Serve with 
Lemon or Wine Sauce. 



136 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

NOODLE CHARLOTTE. 
Make Broad Noodles, (page 83) using 2 eggs. Cook in salted, boil- 
ing water 20 minutes, drain through colander, then pour cold water over 
them. Cream l /\. cupful butter, add gradually 24 cupful sugar, yolks of 2 
e gg s > l A cupful blanched and grated almonds, 3 grated apples and 
grated rind of ]/ 2 lemon. Mix with noodles then add the stiffly- 
beaten whites of the 2 eggs. Line a well-buttered pudding dish with 
rich paste, fill with mixture, cover with paste and bake 1 hour in moder- 
ate oven. 

HUNGARIAN NOODLE CHARLOTTE. 
Make Noodle dough, (page 42) using 2 eggs. Roll thin, dry, fold 
and cut in l / 2 -inch strips. Boil about 15 minutes in salted boiling water 
and drain. Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter in kettle, add the noodles, about 4 
scant tablespoonfuls sugar, % cupful currants, and a little more salt, if 
necessary. Mix well, then pour x / 2 the noodles into a well-buttered 
pudding dish, cover with strawberry, or if preferred, some other jam, 
pour over the rest of the noodles, and bake y 2 hour in moderate oven. 

MATZO CRIMSEL. 
Beat yolks of 6 eggs with 6 tablespoonfuls sugar until very light; 
add l / 2 teaspoonful cinnamon, juice and rind of l / 2 lemon, 5 table- 
spoonfuls matzo meal, l / 2 teaspoonful baking powder; mix well, then 
fold in the whites of the 6 eggs, beaten very stiff. Drop by spoonfuls 
in hot fat or butter. Serve hot, sprinkled with powdered sugar, or 
serve with Wine Sauce, or stewed prunes. 

MATZO FRITTERS. 

Soak 4 matzos in water. When soft, drain and press dry. Add 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs, a scant 24 cupful sugar, juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon, a scant y 2 cupful seedless raisins, 34 cupful finely-chopped 
almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls finely-cut citron, l / 2 teaspoonful salt, and 1 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves. Mix well, then add the stiffly- 
beaten whites of the 4 eggs, and enough matzo meal to hold mixture 
together, using as little as possible. Form into cakes and fry slowly in 
hot butter or fat until brown on both sides. Serve with Lemon or Wine 
Sauce. 

CREAM HORNS. 

Roll Puff Paste in a long piece, y& inch thick. Cut in strips 24 
inch wide, and roll strips around wooden forms, having edges overlap. 
Place in a baking pan, brush top with beaten egg and bake until brown 
in hot oven. Remove from forms and when cold fill with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored. 

RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY PUFFS. 

Roll Puff Paste l /% inch thick and cut in 4-inch squares. Put 1 

teaspoonful raspberry or strawberry jam on each square, wet edges, 

fold in 3-cornered shapes, press edges firmly together, place in baking 

pan, brush top with beaten egg, and bake in hot oven until light brown. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

BUNDT, KUCHEN, ETC. 

BUNDT. 

Dissolve 1 yeast cake in y 2 cupful luke-warm milk ; add 1 tea- 
spoonful sugar, a pinch of salt, and 1 cupful flour sifted 3 times. Mix 
well and put in a warm place to rise. Cream until light 3^ cupful 
butter; add gradually 1 cupful sugar. Stir until very light. Sift 2 
cupfuls flour 3 times ; add alternately the flour and an egg to the 
creamed butter, until the 2 cupfuls of flour and 4 eggs are used, beating 
well all the time; then add the risen yeast and beat well together. 
Flavor with the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 teaspoonful rose water, and 
if desired, 4 powdered cardamon seeds. Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
in a bundt form or cake tin, blanch and cut thin some almonds and 
sprinkle on bottom of tin ; pour in batter until tin is half full ; let rise 
in a warm place for about 24 hour, then bake in moderate oven about 
24 hour, or until done. 

CHINESE BUNDT. 
Make a sponge of 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, J / 2 pint milk 
and y 2 yeast cake. Let rise over night. Cream 1 cupful sugar, add 
gradually y 2 cupful butter and beat until creamy. Add 3 eggs, juice 
and grated rind of 1 lemon. Mix well, add to sponge and put in a 
warm place to rise again. When light, roll out into a round cake about 
an inch thick. Mix together 1 cupful seedless raisins, y 2 cupful cur- 
rants, some citron and almonds, cut fine, % cupful sugar, 1 level table- 
spoonful cinnamon, and sprinkle over dough. Roll like a jelly roll. 
Butter thickly the sides and bottom of bundt form, sprinkle with y 2 cup- 
ful light brown sugar and % cupful blanched almonds, cut thin. Place 
roll in form, let rise again, and bake about y 2 hour in a moderately 
hot oven. 

OLD-FASHIONED BREAD CAKE. 
Put in a bowl 2 cupfuls raised bread dough, 1 cupful butter, 2 
scant cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful currants or raisins, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in a little milk, 1 wineglassful Sherry wine or 
brandy, a little grated nutmeg, a little grated lemon peel, 1 teaspoon- 
ful each of cloves and cinnamon. Beat until very light. Put in 
greased cake tin, cover, and let stand in warm place until light. Bake 
about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

SEED CAKE. 
Follow recipe for Old-Fashioned Bread Cake, omitting fruit, 
liquor and spices, and adding y cupful caraway seed. 



138 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 
Dissolve x /2 compressed yeast cake in 1 cupful luke-warm milk; 
add 1 teaspoonful salt and sufficient sifted flour to make a soft batter. 
Set aside to rise. Cream until light ]A, cupful butter ; add gradually 24 
cupful sugar, 2 well-beaten eggs, rind and juice of y?. lemon, then the 
batter. Work in flour until dough leaves sides of the bowl. Let rise 
over night. Roll on floured board to %. inch thickness, cut same as 
Doughnuts, (page 141) and let stand on floured board until very light. 
Fry in deep fat, drain and dredge with powdered sugar. 

DAMPF NOODLES. 
Take as much Kuchen Dough as required. Toss on floured board, 
using only enough flour to shape dough in small biscuits. Let stand 
on board until light. Heat 3 tablespoonfuls butter in an iron spider, 
and put in the biscuits, placing them about 1 inch apart. Pour in 1 
cupful water, milk or fruit juice from any sweet-pickled fruit, cover 
tightly, place in moderate oven and cook until the juice has evaporated; 
then remove cover and brown biscuits on both sides. Serve with stewed 
prunes or any other fruit desired. 

KUCHEN DOUGH. 

Scald 2 cupfuls milk; add a pinch of salt and 1 teaspoonful sugar. 
When luke-warm, add 1 compressed yeast cake and \y 2 cupfuls flour. 
Stir into a batter and put in a warm place to rise. Cream ^4 cupful 
butter; add gradually 1 cupful sugar. Stir until creamy. Add yolks 
of 3 eggs, one at a time. Beat well, then add the stiffly-beaten whites 
of the 3 eggs and the rind and juice of 1 lemon. Beat this well into 
the sponge, then add 3 or 4 cupfuls flour to make dough the con- 
sistency of thick cup cake. Cover and put in a warm place to rise over 
night. This dough may be used for Cinnamon Kuchen, Krantz, 
Schnecken, etc. 

When using above for pies, doughnuts or anything requiring 
rolling, add just enough flour to roll. 

APPLE KUCHEN. 
Line a well-greased pie plate or biscuit tin with thin Kuchen 
Dough. Core and pare 4 apples and cut into eighths ; lay them on the 
dough in even rows, sprinkle thickly with sugar, then lightly with cin- 
namon, and put bits of butter on top. Beat 1 egg with % cupful cream 
and 1 tablespoonful sugar and pour over apples. Bake in moderate 
oven until apples are soft. 

CHERRY KUCHEN. 
Follow recipe for Huckleberry Kuchen, (page 139) substituting 
cherries for huckleberries, and adding a little more sugar. 

FRESH STRAWBERRY KUCHEN. 
Follow recipe for Huckleberry Kuchen. (Page 139). 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 139 

CHEESE PIE (KUCHEN). 
Put on a well-floured board a small quantity of Kuchen Dough, 
(page 138) and mix with sufficient flour to roll out. Line a well- 
greased large and deep pie plate with thin dough. Press through a 
sieve, or potato ricer 1 pint cottage cheese; add \%. cupfuls cream, 1 
tablespoonful flour dissolved in a little of the cream, a pinch of salt, the 
well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, a scant cupful sugar, juice and rind of ^ 
lemon. Mix well, then add the stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs. Fill 
pie plate and bake in moderate oven until brown and well-baked. 

CINNAMON KUCHEN (CAKE). 
Cover the bottom of a well-greased tin with Kuchen Dough, (page 
138) about 1 inch thick, and put in a warm place to rise. When light, 
brush top with yolk of 1 egg beaten with 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Mix 
together some granulated sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle over dough ; 
add some finely-chopped almonds and bits of butter. Bake in hot oven 
(not too hot) until brown. 

QUICK COFFEE KUCHEN. 
Cream j4 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful pulverized sugar, 
2 eggs, juice and grated rind of y 2 lemon, 1 cupful milk, 2 cupfuls flour 
sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Place in 2 tins, brush the 
top with egg, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and chopped almonds. 
Bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. 

QUICK FRUIT KUCHEN. 
Take about ]/$ quantity of Quick Coffee Kuchen batter, and add 
enough flour to roll. Line greased pie plate with dough, rolled thin. 
Core, pare, and cut 4 large apples into eighths, lay in even rows on 
the dough, sprinkle thickly with sugar and lightly with cinnamon. 
Pour over a custard made of 1 beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful sugar and 
% cupful milk or cream. Dot with small bits of butter, and bake in 
moderate oven. 

HUCKLEBERRY KUCHEN. 
Line a deep, well-greased pie plate with thin Kuchen Dough, (page 
138). Wash and drain 1 quart huckleberries. Beat yolks of 2 eggs; add 
j4 cupful sugar, then the stiffly-beaten whites of the 2 eggs and 1 table- 
spoonful flour and mix with berries. Fill pie plate, sprinkle lightly with 
cinnamon and dot over with pieces of butter. Bake in moderately hot 
oven. 

PRUNE KUCHEN. 
Line a greased tin with thin Kuchen Dough, (page 138). Cut fresh 
or canned prunes in halves, remove stones, lay fruit in rows close to- 
gether, then follow recipe for Apple Kuchen, (page 138). 

PEACH KUCHEN. 
Follow recipe for Prune Kuchen, using peaches instead of prunes. 



140 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

SCHNECKEN. 
Take as much of the Kuchen Dough (page 138) as required and 
roll to Yz inch thickness on a floured board, adding as little flour as pos- 
sible. Brush with melted butter, then sprinkle over ]/i of the dough 
some chopped raisins, citron, almonds and lemon peel ; some currants, 
sugar and cinnamon. Fold over the other half of dough and press edges 
well together. Roll out slightly and cut in squares ; again press edges 
together, place in buttered tin, brush top with yolk of egg mixed with 2 
tablespoonfuls milk, sprinkle thickly with sugar and cinnamon mixed to- 
gether, then with chopped almonds, and bits of butter. Let rise and 
when light bake in quick oven until brown. 

WREATH (KRANTZ). 
Divide a piece of Kuchen Dough, (page 138) in 3 parts. Add to 
each part just enough flour to roll (on a floured board) lengthwise into 
a long strand. Work the strands together into one long braid. Heat 2 
full tablespoonfuls butter in iron spider, put a cup in the center and place 
braid around it to form a circle. Brush top of braid with yolk of egg 
mixed with a little milk. Mix together 1 teaspoonful flour, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter and spread over top ; then sprinkle 
with chopped almonds. Let rise in a warm place and bake in moderate 
oven -J/2 hour, or until well-baked. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

CRULLERS, FRITTERS, SHORTCAKES, ETC. 

CRULLERS. 
Cream until light 3 tablespoonfuls butter and Y^ cupful sugar; 
add one by one, 3 eggs and beat well. Mix, sift and add 3 cupfuls flour, 
4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, T /\. teaspoonful nut- 
meg, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon; then add y 2 cupful milk. If dough is 
not stiff enough to roll, add a little more flour. Shape, and fry in deep, 
hot fat. Dredge with sugar. 

FRENCH CRULLERS. 
Boil 1 cupful water and 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add quickly 1 
cupful flour and stir constantly until mixture forms a ball. Let stand 
y 2 hour in a warm place ; then add 4 eggs, one at a time, beating well 
after each egg has been added ; then beat vigorously 5 minutes, cover 
and let stand again y 2 hour. Flour board and roll 1 tablespoonful of 
mixture at a time to %. inch thickness, using very little extra flour, as 
the mixture should be kept quite soft. Cut same as doughnuts. Slide 
carefully into deep, hot fat, brown on both sides, drain and roll in 
powdered sugar mixed with a little cinnamon. 

CREAM PUFFS. 
Make batter same as for Queen Fritters, (page 142) drop by spoon- 
fuls \ T / 2 inches apart on buttered tins, and bake in quick oven 20 minutes, 
or until light. Cool ; make an opening in each with a sharp knife, and 
fill with sweetened whipped cream. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
Beat 2 eggs; add 1 cupful sugar, and continue beating until light. 
Add 1 cupful sour milk, 2 teaspoonfuls soda, 4 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful grated nutmeg; then enough 
sifted flour (about 4 cupfuls) to make dough stiff enough to roll. Roll 
on floured board, to y, inch thickness. Cut first with a large, round 
cutter, then make hole in center with smaller cutter. Fry in deep, 
hot fat and drain on brown paper. Dredge with powdered sugar. 
If sweet milk is used instead of sour milk, substitute 4 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder for soda. 

FRITTER BATTER, NO. 1. 

Sift 2 cupfuls flour into a bowl ; beat yolks of 4 eggs until light, 

add 1 cupful cold water, stir slowly into the flour, add 1 tablespoonful 

olive oil, y 2 teaspoonful salt, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice or brandy. 

Beat vigorously, and if necessary, add a little more water ; let stand 



142 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

3 hours; before cooking, add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs. 
Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat, brown on both sides, drain, sprinkle with 
sugar and serve with or without Wine Sauce. 

FRITTER BATTER, NO. 2. 
Beat 3 eggs until very light, add 1 cupful milk, a little salt and 
2 cupfuls sifted flour ; beat well, then add 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
Drop by spoonfuls and fry in hot fat until brown on both sides. Drain, 
dredge with sugar and serve hot with stewed fruit. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 
Slice 2 tart apples, stir slices into Fritter Batter, No. 1, or No. 2. 
Drop by spoonfuls and fry in hot fat until brown on both sides. Drain 
and dredge with sugar. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Soak ^ of a small loaf of white bread ; drain and squeeze. Stir 
until light the yolks of 3 eggs with y 2 cupful sugar; add bread, a little 
cinnamon, rind and juice of y 2 lemon, a few currants, chopped almonds 
and seedless raisins, a pinch of salt and the stiffly-beaten whites of the 3 
eggs. Drop by spoonfuls in hot fat or butter and fry until light brown. 
Serve with stewed prunes or jelly. 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 
Sliced bananas, peaches, oranges, or any other fruit, may be 
stirred into Fritter Batter, No. 1, or No. 2, and fried same as Apple 
Fritters. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 
Grate 4 raw potatoes and mix with y 2 tablespoonful fat ; add a 
pinch of salt, 2 eggs, a scant ]/ 2 cupful sugar, 2 apples, sliced thin, and 
1 cupful flour. Drop by spoonfuls in hot fat and fry slowly until well- 
browned on both sides. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 
Heat to boiling point in small, deep kettle 1 cupful boiling water 
and 4 tablespoonfuls butter ; add 1 cupful flour and stir constantly until 
mixture leaves sides of kettle and sticks together in the form of a ball. 
Remove from fire and cool. Add, one at a time, 4 unbeaten eggs, 
beating vigorously after each egg has been added. Season with salt. 
Drop by spoonfuls and fry in deep, hot fat. When very light and 
brown remove carefully with skimmer and serve with Wine Sauce. 
Or drain, make an opening with a sharp knife, fill with preserves or 
marmalade, and sprinkle with sugar. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE, NO 1. 
Sift into a bowl 4 cupfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 4 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt; work in with tips of 
fingers or with knife y 2 cupful butter; add gradually sufficient milk 
(about a large cupful) to make a soft dough. Roll out in 2 layers the 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 143 

size of tin ; put one of the layers in a well-buttered biscuit or round tin ; 
brush with butter, place other layer on top, and bake 15 minutes in quick 
oven. Separate layers and spread thickly with butter. Sweeten and 
crush slightly 2 quarts strawberries, and put between and on top of cake. 
Serve with whipped or plain cream. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE, NO. 2. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful powdered sugar, 
then 2 eggs, one at a time and 1 teaspoonful salt. Mix and sift 2 cup- 
fuls flour and 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and add alternately with 
1 cupful milk to mixture. Beat thoroughly and bake in 2 round, 
buttered pans. Cool and put sweetened, crushed berries between and on 
top. Cover with sweetened whipped cream, or, if preferred, serve with 
plain cream. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 
Follow recipe for Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2, substituting peaches 
for strawberries. 

RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
Follow recipe for Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2, substituting rasp- 
berries for strawberries. 

SNOW BALLS. 
Follow recipe for Noodles, (page 42) adding 1 tablespoonful brandy 
and 1 tablespoonful sugar. Roll very thin and cut in 2-inch squares ; 
make 3 gashes with a knife at equal distances apart in each square and 
fry in deep fat until light brown. Drain and dredge with sugar. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

TORTES. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 
Beat for 15 minutes the yolks of 5 eggs and y A cupful sifted pow- 
dered sugar; add y 2 cupful grated blanched almonds, y 2 teaspoonful 
vanilla, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 l / 2 tablespoonfuls fine cracker 
crumbs and the whites of the 5 eggs, beaten until stiff. Bake in 2 layer- 
cake pans in a slow oven. Serve cold. Filling: A pint of whipped 
cream ; add sugar and vanilla to taste, also a few ground blanched al- 
monds. Spread between layers and on top of cake. 

ALMOND TORTE. 
Beat until very light the yolks of 8 eggs and 8 tablespoonfuls sifted 
powdered sugar; add 8 tablespoonfuls finely-chopped almonds, 3 table- 
spoonfuls cracker crumbs, the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, and 
1 teaspoonful vanilla ; then the stiffly-beaten whites of the 8 eggs. Bake 
in 1 cake pan, or in 2 layer-cake pans and spread whipped cream between 
layers and on top of cake. 

BROD TORTE. 

Beat together for about y 2 hour the yolks of 12 eggs with 1 pound 
sifted granulated sugar ; then add 7 ounces blanched chopped almonds, 1 
large cupful dried rye bread, rolled fine and moistened with a glassful 
wine or half wine and half brandy, y 2 teaspoonful salt, y A cake grated 
chocolate, 2 ounces citron, cut fine, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, all- 
spice and cinnamon, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, and the beaten 
whites of the 12 eggs. Bake 1 hour in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE TORTE. NO. 1. 
Beat yolks of 10 eggs until very light; add \y 2 cupfuls sifted pow- 
dered sugar, beat again, then add y 2 pound grated chocolate, 3 soda 
crackers, rolled fine, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, 2 ounces 
chopped citron, 2 ounces chopped almonds. Flavor with vanilla, then 
add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 10 eggs. Bake 1 hour in moderate 
oven, in a spring form. 

CHOCOLATE TORTE. NO. 2. 
Beat together until very light yolks of 6 eggs and 2 cupfuls sifted 
powdered sugar; add y 2 pound grated almonds, 1 cake sweet chocolate 
(grated), 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 1 cupful 
cracker crumbs, moistened with wine, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 
then the beaten whites of 4 eggs, reserving the other 2 whites for 
frosting. Flavor with vanilla. Bake 45 minutes in moderate oven. 
Spread jelly over top, then the beaten whites (sweetened), and brown 
lightly in oven. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 145 

CHOCOLATE TORTE. NO. 3. 
Beat together until very light 6 whole eggs and \y 2 cupfuls sifted 
sugar ( l / 2 powdered and y 2 granulated) ; then add 2 grated apples, 1 cup- 
ful ground almonds, ]/ 2 glass jelly, 1 cupful bread crumbs soaked in 1 
wineglassful whisky, %. cake sweet chocolate, grated, 1 teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and cloves, y 2 teaspoonful allspice, the grated rind 
of 1 lemon and 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake in moderate oven. 

HAZEL NUT TORTE. 
Beat together until light the yolks of 10 eggs and \y 2 cupfuls sifted 
pulverized sugar ; add 1 pound chopped hazel nuts, 3 soda crackers, rolled 
fine, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, the grated rind and 
juice of 1 lemon, a pinch of salt and the stiffly-beaten whites of the 10 
eggs. Bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 

HICKORY NUT TORTE. 

Beat yolks of 12 eggs until very light, then add 1 pound sifted pow- 
dered sugar and beat again; add 1 pound grated hickory nuts (reserving 
a handful to mix with cream), grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, then the stiffly-beaten whites of the 12 eggs. Bake 1 
hour in moderate oven. Cool, cut in halves and spread jelly on each half, 
Whip 1 pint cream, stir in the nuts, and spread between layers and on 
top of cake. 

LINZER TORTE. 

Mix together ]/ 2 pound sweet butter or goose fat, y 2 pound sugar, y 2 
pound chopped almonds, y pound citron, cut very fine, about y 2 pound 
flour, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon, 4 eggs (reserving part of the yolk of 1 egg to brush over 
top). Spread the mixture over the plates or tins with the hands, fill 
with strawberry preserves, bar across with strips of the dough and 
brush with yolk of egg. (Above quantity will make 2 pies). 

MANDEL TORTE. 

Beat the yolks of 10 eggs until very light, then add 2 scant cup- 
fuls granulated sugar (sifted), y> pound ground almonds, y 2 cupful 
matzo meal mixed with y 2 teaspoonful baking powder, y 2 teaspoonful 
salt and the whites of the 10 eggs, beaten until stiff. Flavor with vanilla 
or the grated rind and juice of a lemon. Bake 45 minutes in moderate 
oven. 

MOCHA TORTE. 

Beat well the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cupful sifted powdered sugar ; 
add 1 tablespoonful mocha essence, ^4 cupful flour mixed and sifted with 
1 teaspoonful baking powder, then the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 
eggs. Bake either whole or in 2 layer-cake tins. 

Filling. 

One pint whipped cream flavored with 2 tablespoonfuls mocha es- 
sence and sweetened with powdered sugar. Spread between layers and 
on top of torte. 



146 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

PECAN TORTE. 
Beat well together yolks of 6 eggs and \y 2 cupfuls sifted powdered 
sugar; add 2 cupfuls chopped pecans and the well-beaten whites of the 
6 eggs. Bake in 2 layer-cake pans. Spread pineapple preserves be- 
tween layers and cover top with whipped cream. 

WALNUT TORTE. 
Beat the yolks of 6 eggs until very light, add \y 2 cupfuls granu- 
lated sugar, % pound grated walnuts and beat again; then sift in 1 
tablespoonful flour mixed with y 2 teaspoonful baking powder; add 2 
tablespoonfuls grated cracker crumbs. Flavor with juice and grated 
rind of y 2 lemon. Stir well, then add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 
6 eggs. Bake in 2 layer-cake pans in a moderate oven. Cool, and 
spread whipped cream between layers and on top of cake. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

CAKES. 

In making cake it is essential to use strictly fresh eggs, good but- 
ter, fine granulated sugar and pastry flour. 

Before attempting to mix cake have all the ingredients measured 
or weighed and ready before you on the table. Never let a cake 
stand after mixing, but bake at once. The necessary implements for 
cake making are a pair of scales, 2 cups of the same size, a wooden 
spoon, 2 wire egg whips, 1 for yolks and 1 for whites, and a small 
brush for greasing pans. Grease pans with melted butter, from which 
all the salt has been cooked out, or with fat, applying with a small brush. 
Just before putting in mixture, dredge pans thoroughly with flour, 
invert and shake pan to remove all superfluous flour. This gives to 
cake a smooth under surface, which is desirable if cake is to be frosted. 
In filling pans have mixture come well to the corners and sides of pans, 
leaving a slight depression in the center, and when baked the cake 
will be perfectly flat on top. Fill cake pans about two-thirds full, if cake 
is expected to rise to top of pan. Small and layer cakes require a hotter 
oven than loaf cakes. An earthen bowl should always be used for 
mixing cakes ; never use tin. While baking cake do not put anything 
else in the oven, and place cake in the center of oven. Cakes should 
be looked at frequently during baking, but it should be done as quickly 
as possible and the door of oven should be opened and closed carefully 
to avoid the danger of cake falling. Never move a cake in oven until 
it has risen to its full height. Never remove cake from oven until 
sure that it is done. Test by running a broom splint in cake; if no 
dough adheres the cake is done. Or in most cases, cake when done, 
shrinks from sides of pan. 

Add a pinch of salt to cakes without butter. 

TO MIX ANGEL, SUNSHINE AND SPONGE CAKES. 
Separate yolks from whites of eggs. Beat yolks until thick ; add 
sugar gradually, and continue beating; then add flavoring. Beat whites 
until stiff and add to first mixture. Mix and sift flour with salt and 
fold in at the last. Where baking powder is used, sift flour once be- 
fore measuring, then mix with the baking powder and sift 3 or 4 times. 



148 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

When soda and cream tartar are used, dissolve the soda in 1 table- 
spoonful hot water and add the cream of tartar to whites of eggs when 
half beaten. Add the flavoring to the beaten whites; then fold the 
flour lightly through. Do not beat or stir cake after the flour is in, 
as this toughens the batter. 

TO MIX BUTTER CAKES. 
If butter is very hard, place it for a short time in a warm place 
and it may then be measured and creamed much easier. But do not 
let it get too soft, as it will become oily instead of creamy. Cream by 
working with a wooden spoon until soft and of a creamy consistency, 
then add sugar gradually, yolks of eggs or whole eggs, beaten until 
light, liquid, then flour, mixed and sifted with baking powder; or liquid 
and flour may be added alternately. Long beating makes a fine- 
grained cake. Always beat whites and yolks separately, unless other- 
wise mentioned, adding beaten whites at the last. Fruit, when added 
to cake, is usually floured to prevent its settling to the bottom. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Add a pinch of salt to the whites of 8 large or 9 small eggs and 
beat until foamy; then add j/2 teaspoonful cream tartar and beat until 
very stiff. Sift sugar and flour each 5 times, then measure 1^4 cup- 
fuls sugar and 1 level cupful flour. 

Add the sugar carefully to the beaten whites, flavor with 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla, then fold in lightly the flour. Bake from 30 to 45 
minutes in moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Cream ^4 cupful butter ; add 1 cupful sifted sugar, then beaten yolks 
of 4 eggs. Dissolve J4 pound sweet chocolate in >4 cupful milk and add 
to mixture. Add 1 grated boiled potato, 2 cupfuls flour mixed and 
sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, then the beaten whites of the 
4 eggs. Bake in layer-cake pans in moderate oven. 

Filling. 
Melt }i pound chocolate over hot water. Beat the whites of 2 eggs 
until stiff, add confectioners' sugar until of right consistency to spread, 
then add chocolate. Flavor with vanilla and spread between layers and 
on top of cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH CUSTARD FILLING. 

Cream 24 cupful butter; add gradually \]/ 2 cupfuls sifted sugar, then 
the beaten yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cupful grated chocolate; add alter- 
nately 24 cupful milk, and 2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 
teaspoonfuls baking powder ; then the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs. 
Flavor to taste. Bake in 3 layer-cake pans. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 149 

Custard Filling. 

Heat to boiling point 24 pint milk mixed with beaten yolks of 
3 eggs and 24 cupful sugar. Add 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, which has 
been dissolved in a little milk. Stir until mixture thickens. Cool, 
flavor with vanilla, add y. pound ground almonds. Put between layers 
and on top of cake. 

COCOA CAKE. 

Cream y 2 cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar, then 4 
eggs, 1 at a time, 1 scant cupful cocoa, y 2 teaspoonful each of cinnamon 
and cloves, 1 scant cupful milk, 2 scant cupfuls flour mixed and sifted 
with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 handful chopped almonds. Bake 
in layer-cake pans. Put Chocolate Frosting between layers and on top 
of cake. 

Cocoa Cake may be used as a pudding by substituting whipped 
cream for Chocolate Frosting. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Cream Yz cupful butter; add gradually \y 2 cupfuls sifted powdered 
sugar, the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cupful milk, 2 scant cupfuls flour 
mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, then the beaten 
whites of the 3 eggs. Bake in 2 layer-cake tins. Spread between 
layers and on top of cake, Boiled Frosting, to which has been added 
grated fresh cocoanut, and sprinkle grated cocoanut over the frosting. 

VIOLA'S COCOANUT CAKE. 
Cream 1 cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar and beat 
until very light; then add beaten yolks of 4 eggs, and alternately 1 
cupful milk, and 3 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder and y> cupful cornstarch. Flavor to taste with a little 
juice and grated rind of orange or lemon, then add the beaten whites 
of the 4 eggs. Bake in 4 layer-cake pans. Put layers together with 
same frosting as for Cocoanut Cake. If preferred substitute some other 
filling for cocoanut. 

COFFEE CAKE. 
Cream 24 cupful butter; gradually add 1 cupful brown sugar and 

1 cupful sifted granulated sugar, then the beaten yolks of 5 eggs, 2 
squares grated bitter chocolate, J4 pound ground almonds, y 2 tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 1 cupful cold coffee, 

2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
then the beaten whites of the 5 eggs. Mix together 1 cupful raisins, 
y 2 cupful currants and 2 ounces sliced citron ; dredge lightly with flour, 
and stir into the cake. 

CUP CAKE. 
Cream 1 scant cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar, 4 
eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after adding each egg. Then add 1 
cupful milk, and 3 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Flavor to taste. 



150 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

' DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 
Cream 1 scant cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls brown sugar, 
then the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, y 2 cake melted chocolate, 1 cupful sour 
milk to which has been added 1 teaspoonful soda, 1% to 2 cupfuls flour, 
then the beaten whites of the 3 eggs. Bake in moderate oven. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE WITH WALNUT FILLING. 

Beat until light the yolks of 4 eggs and 2 cupfuls sifted powdered 
sugar. Grate % pound chocolate, add 1 cupful milk and cook 10 min- 
utes in double boiler. Cool, and mix with eggs. Add 1 cupful flour, 
mixed and sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Flavor with 1 
teaspoonful vanilla, then add the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs. 
Bake in layer-cake pans. 

Walnut Filling. 

Beat 1 egg; add 1 cupful milk, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 cupful 
chopped walnuts and cook in double boiler until thick. Cool, and spread 
between layers. Cover top of cake with Chocolate Frosting. 

Devil's Food Cake may be used as a pudding by substituting 
whipped cream for filling and frosting. 

FIG CAKE. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter until very light; add gradually \y 2 cup- 
fuls sifted sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs, then alternately y 2 cupful milk, and 
2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in layer-cake pans. 

Filling. 
Cut fine 1 pound figs ; mix with 1 cupful water and 1 cupful sugar 
and cook until thick. Spread between layers. 

GRANDMOTHER'S GINGER BREAD. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful brown sugar, 1 
cupful New Orleans molasses, 1 tablespoonful ground ginger, y 2 tea- 
spoonful each of cloves and allspice, a pinch of salt, then 3 eggs, beaten 
until very light. Beat well together, then add alternately 4 cupfuls 
sifted flour, and 1 cupful sour milk to which has been added 1 tea- 
spoonful soda. Bake in buttered shallow pan in moderate oven. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

Cream ^4 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful sifted sugar, then 
beaten yolks of 8 eggs, ^ cupful milk, 2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted 
with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor with grated rind and juice 
of y 2 orange. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

Cream 1 scant cupful butter; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar, 
then the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cupful milk, 3 cupfuls flour mixed and 
sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, then the stiffly-beaten whites 
of the 3 eggs. Divide cake batter in four parts. Color one part with 2 
squares melted chocolate, and one with pink coloring. Bake in 4 round 
layer-cake pans. Cool, put first a light layer on cake plate, then the 
chocolate layer, then the other light one, placing the pink layer on top. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 151 

Spread Lemon Filling between layers. Cover top of cake with White 
Frosting. 

Lemon Filling. 
Beat 1 egg, add y 2 cupful water and the grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon. Pour this slowly on 1 cupful sugar mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour. Cook in double boiler, stirring until as smooth as cream. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter ; add gradually 1 cupful sifted sugar. Beat 
in 2 eggs. Add ^ cupful milk, 1 cupful chopped nuts, and 2 cupfuls 
flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

LOAF CAKE. 
Cream 3 tablespoonfuls butter ; add gradually 1 cupful sifted pow- 
dered sugar and continue beating. Then add yolks of 3 eggs, 3 table- 
spoonfuls milk, \y 2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with \ l / 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, vanilla to flavor, and the stiffly-beaten whites of the 
3 eggs. Bake in moderate oven. 

ONE-EGG CAKE. 
Cream 1 tablespoonful butter ; add gradually 1 cupful sifted sugar, 1 
teaspoonful soda mixed with 1 cupful molasses, 1 beaten egg f y 2 pint 
sour cream, 2 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful raisins, seeded and cut in pieces, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, y teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice and 
nutmeg. Bake in buttered shallow pan in moderate oven. 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 1. 

Beat the yolks of 5 eggs until light ; add gradually 2 small cupfuls 
sugar (rolled), and continue beating. Add the whites of 3 eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, the grated rind and juice of 1 orange, then fold in 2 
small cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in 3 layer-cake pans in a moderate oven. 

Frosting. 

Beat whites of 2 eggs until stiff, add grated rind and juice of 1 
orange and enough confectioners' sugar to make of right consistency to 
spread. Spread between layers and on top of cake. 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 2. 
Cream 3 tablespoonfuls butter; add gradually \y 2 cupfuls sifted 
sugar; then 6 eggs 1 at a time. Beat well, then add juice and grated rind 
of 1 orange, and alternately *4 cupful milk, and \y 2 cupfuls flour mixed 
and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in layer-cake pans 
in moderate oven. Put between layers and on top of cake, frosting made 
same as Frosting in Orange Cake, No. 1. 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 3 (ECONOMICAL). 

Cream 3 tablespoonfuls butter; add gradually \y 2 cupfuls sifted 

sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cupful milk, the grated rind and juice of 1 

orange, 2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder, then the beaten whites of the 2 eggs. Bake in layer-cake pans. 

Frosting. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs, add grated rind and juice of 1 orange. 



152 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

Stir in confectioners' sugar until of right consistency to spread. Put 
between layers and on top of cake. 

POUND CAKE. 

Cream until very light 1 scant pound butter, add gradually 1 pound 

sifted sugar, beating constantly ; add the well-beaten yolks of 10 eggs, %. 

cupful brandy, y 2 teaspoonful mace, the stiffly-beaten whites of the 10 

eggs and 1 pound sifted flour. Bake about 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

SILVER CAKE. 
Cream J / 2 cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar, 3 cup- 
fuls flour, mixed and sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, ^ 
cupful milk, then the stiffly-beaten whites of 8 eggs. Flavor to taste. 

SPONGE CAKE. NO. 1. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs until light ; add gradually 1 scant cupful 
sifted pulverized sugar. Beat %. hour. Add grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon, the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs, then fold in 1 scant cupful 
flour mixed and sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake in mod- 
erate oven in shallow pan, or in individual cake pans. 

SPONGE CAKE. NO. 2. 
Beat until thick the yolks of 6 eggs ; add gradually 1 cupful sifted 
sugar, and continue beating until light. Add grated rind and juice of l / 2 
lemon, the whites of the 6 eggs, beaten until stiff, then fold in 1 cupful 
sifted flour. Bake in a buttered and floured pan in a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat until very light the yolks of 10 eggs and 1 cupful sifted pow- 
dered sugar; add ]/ 2 pound grated sweet chocolate, 5 soda crackers, 
(rolled fine), 1 teaspoonful baking powder, ]/ 2 teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon, cloves and allspice, the grated rind of ]/ 2 lemon, y 2 wineglassful 
brandy and the beaten whites of the 10 eggs. Bake in moderate oven. 
Cover with Chocolate Frosting. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Melt over boiling water y 2 cupful grated chocolate, add y 2 cupful 
sugar and stir until smooth. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

COCOA SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat 9 (whole) eggs with 1 pound sifted powdered sugar for y 2 
hour, or until very light, then add 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 1 cupful cocoa, 
\y 2 cupfuls flour. Bake about 1 hour in buttered cake pan in slow oven. 

EIGHT-EGG SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat well the yolks of 8 eggs, add gradually 1 cupful sifted sugar. 
Beat until light; add grated rind and juice of y 2 lemon, the whites of the 
8 eggs, beaten until very stiff, then 4 heaping tablespoonfuls potato 
flour mixed and sifted with y 2 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake in 
moderate oven. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 153 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat yolks of 4 eggs ; add 1 scant cupful sifted sugar, and beat until 
very light, then add the juice and rind of y 2 lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls hot 
water, the stiffly-beaten whites of the 4 eggs. Fold in 1 scant cupful 
flour mixed and sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder and y 2 tea- 
spoonful salt. Bake in a shallow cake pan in moderate oven. 

INDIVIDUAL SPONGE CAKES. 
Beat 2 eggs until light ; add gradually 1 cupful sifted sugar and con- 
tinue beating until very light. Fold in 1 cupful flour mixed with 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder, and sifted 3 times. Flavor with lemon, then 
add y 2 cupful hot water, and beat thoroughly. Bake in buttered and 
floured individual tins. 

TEN-EGG SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat well the yolks of 10 eggs, add gradually 1 pound sifted pow- 
dered sugar. Beat y 2 hour. Add the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 
the whites of the 10 eggs, beaten until very stiff, then fold in y 2 pound 
sifted flour. Bake about 45 minutes in a slow oven. 

SPONGE LEMON ROLL. 

Beat whites of 5 eggs until stiff; add gradually 1 cupful sifted 
granulated sugar, beaten yolks of the 5 eggs and 1 cupful sifted flour. 
Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Bake in shallow pan in moderate 
oven. Turn out on pastry board, spread with lemon filling and roll. 

Lemon Filling. 

Beat whites of 4 eggs until stiff ; add 1 cupful sugar, yolks of the 4 
eggs, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Cook until thick in double 
boiler. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Mix together ^3 cupful cornstarch and y cupful flour; add 2 
more cupfuls flour and 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Sift 3 times. 
Cream 1 cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar, then alter- 
nately the flour and 1 cupful milk. Flavor with almond extract, then add 
the stiffly-beaten whites of 7 eggs. Bake in moderate oven. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 
Whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5, 1% cupfuls sifted sugar, 1 cupful flour, 
y teaspoonful cream tartar, a pinch of salt added to the whites of eggs 
before beating, flavor to taste. Sift, measure and set aside flour and 
sugar; separate the eggs. Beat whites until very foamy, add cream of 
tartar and beat until very stiff. Beat in the sugar, then add the beaten 
yolks and flavoring. Fold in flour and bake in an Angel Cake pan from 
30 to 45 minutes in moderate oven. 

WALNUT CAKE. 
Cream 1 small cupful butter, add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar; 
then one by one the yolks of 3 eggs. Beat well. Add 1 cupful milk, 3 
cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 1 



154 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

pound chopped walnuts (reserving 15 for garnishing). Flavor with y 2 
teaspoonful vanilla ; then add the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in mod- 
erate oven, cover with Boiled Frosting, crease in squares and put y 2 
walnut on each square. 

WEDDING FRUIT CAKE. 
Cream 2y A cupfuls butter ; add gradually 2y 2 cupfuls brown sugar, 
then 1 cupful dark molasses, the beaten yolks of 10 eggs, 1 grated nut- 
meg, 1 teaspoonful each of allspice, cinnamon and cloves. Dredge with 
flour and add 4 pounds seeded raisins, 4 pounds currants, 1 pound figs, 
cut in pieces, 1 pound citron, sliced thin. Add 1 cupful milk, and 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little of the milk. Mix and sift 5 coffee 
cupfuls flour with 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar and add alternately with 
the beaten whites of the 10 eggs. Add Y* pint brandy and stir the 
mixture for about y 2 hour. Bake in buttered and floured pans in slow 
oven. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Cream y 2 cupful butter ; add 1 cupful sifted sugar. Stir well, then add 
the white of 1 egg and stir until very creamy. Add alternately y 2 
cupful milk and \y 2 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Flavor to taste, then add beaten whites of 4 eggs. 

WHITE CAKE WITH CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING. 
Cream 1 cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sifted sugar. Beat 
well, then add 1 scant cupful milk, 3 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, then the stiffly-beaten whites of 5 eggs. 
Bake in 2 layer-cake pans. 

Filling. 
Whip 1 cupful cream until very stiff. Sweeten to taste; add y 2 
cupful cocoa, and spread between layers and on top of cake. Or if pre- 
ferred, Chocolate Icing may be used for the top of cake. 

WHITE ROYAL CAKE. 
Cream 24 cupful butter, add gradually \y. cupfuls sifted sugar. 
Stir until light, then stir in slowly 1 cupful sweet milk, 3 cupfuls flour 
mixed and sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, then the beaten 
whites of 6 eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in moderate oven. 



CHAPTER XXX. 

CAKE FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 

BOILED FROSTING. 
Heat to boiling point, 1 cupful sugar and Y$ cupful boiling water, 

stirring constantly; then boil without stirring until syrup will thread 

when dropped from top of spoon. Pour syrup gradually on beaten 

white of 1 egg, beating constantly until of right consistency to spread. 

Flavor with lemon, vanilla or any other flavoring desired, and spread 
over cake. 

CARAMEL FROSTING. 
Boil 2 /z cupful cream, \ l /z cupfuls sugar, Yz cupful grated maple 
sugar, and Y* cupful butter, 13 minutes in double boiler. Remove from 
fire, and beat until of right consistency to spread. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING, NO. 1. 
Follow recipe for Boiled Frosting, flavor with vanilla and add 
enough grated sweet chocolate to color. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING, NO. 2. 
Mix together the yolk of 1 egg, Ya cupful sugar, %■ cupful milk 
and a small piece of butter. Boil 5 minutes in double boiler, then stir 
in Y2 cupful melted chocolate. Spread while warm on cake. 

COCOANUT FROSTING. 
Prepare Boiled Frosting and stir in grated fresh cocoanut. 

CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING. 
To Ya cupful boiling water add gradually enough confectioners' 
sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor to taste. 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING. 
Break 1 pound maple sugar in small pieces, put in saucepan and 
pour over it Y cupful boiling water. Stir occasionally until sugar is 
dissolved. Then boil without stirring, until syrup will thread when 
dropped from tip of spoon. Pour syrup gradually on beaten whites of 
2 eggs, beating mixture constantly until of right consistency to spread. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 
Cut in pieces % pound marshmallows and melt in double boiler. 
Prepare Boiled Frosting and stir in the melted marshmallows. Re- 
move from range, beat until thick, spread over the cake and put a few 
whole marshmallows on top. 



156 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

MILK FROSTING. 
Heat 1 teaspoonful butter, add gradually \y 2 cupfuls sugar and 
y 2 cupful milk. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Then boil 15 minutes 
without stirring. Remove from range and beat until of right con- 
sistency to spread. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Pour over 
cake and spread evenly. 

MOCHA FROSTING. 
Prepare Confectioners' Frosting, (page 155) and flavor with Mocha 
Essence. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 
To the juice and grated rind of 1 orange, add 1 tablespoonful 
boiling water. Strain, then add enough confectioners' sugar to make 
of right consistency to spread. 

PISTACHIO FROSTING. 
Prepare Boiled Frosting, (page 155). Add slowly pistachio color- 
ing until of the desired color. Flavor with almond extract. 

PLAIN FROSTING. 
Beat white of 1 egg until slightly foamy ; add gradually 1 heaping 
cupful sifted powdered sugar; beat until stiff. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. 

CREAM FILLING FOR STRUDEL OR PIE. 
Beat together until light 4 whole eggs, and 2 cupfuls sugar; add 
juice of x /z lemon. Boil 2 cupfuls milk in double boiler, add the beaten 
mixture and stir until thick. When slightly cool, add y 2 cupful raisins 
and 1 tablespoonful vanilla. 

FRUIT FILLING. 
Add y 2 cupful chopped fruit to Boiled Frosting, (page 155). 

LEMON FILLING. 
Mix together 2 eggs, slightly beaten, 1 cupful sugar, juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon and 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch dissolved in 
1 cupful water. Heat 1 tablespoonful butter in saucepan. Add mix- 
ture and stir constantly until thick. Cool before spreading. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 
Heat slowly to boiling point without stirring ^ cupful sugar and 
4 tablespoonfuls milk, then boil slowly 5 minutes. Cut in small pieces 
34 pound marshmallows and melt in double boiler; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
hot water and cook until mixture is smooth, then add the hot syrup 
gradually and stir constantly. Beat until cool enough to spread. Add 1 
teaspoonful vanilla. 

NUT FILLING. 
Add y 2 cupful chopped nuts to Boiled Frosting, (page 155). 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 157 

ORANGE FILLING. 
Follow recipe for Lemon Filling, (page 156) substituting rind and 
juice of 1 orange for lemon, and using less sugar. 

PISTACHIO FILLING. 
Add to Marshmallow Frosting, (page 155) ^2 cupful pistachio nuts, 
blanched and chopped. Color with pistachio coloring and flavor with 1 
teaspoonful rose water, or y 2 teaspoonful almond extract. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

COOKIES, MACAROONS, KISSES, ETC. 

ANISE SEED CAKES. 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs very light; add 1 cupful sugar and continue 
beating. Then add 1 tablespoonful anise seed mixed and sifted with 
1 cupful flour and 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Beat well, then fold 
in the beaten whites of the 4 eggs. Test by baking a teaspoonful in 
a pan; if it spreads add a little more flour to the mixture. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls, one inch apart, into buttered and floured pans and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKES. 

Beat together until light 4 eggs, 2 cupfuls brown sugar and y 2 
cupful granulated sugar; add 1 cake German sweet chocolate (grated), 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful cloves, \y 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 2 cupfuls flour. Drop by teaspoonfuls, 
\y 2 inches apart, into buttered and floured pans and bake in moderate 
oven. 

ALMOND COOKIES. 
Mix together 1 pound almonds, chopped fine, 1 pound pulverized 
sugar, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, 2 ounces 
citron, sliced thin, grated rind of 1 lemon, y 2 nutmeg, grated, 1 pound 
flour or enough to roll, y 2 teaspoonful baking powder. Roll thin, shape 
with small cooky cutter, brush with beaten yolk of egg and bake in hot 
oven. 

BUTTER COOKIES. 
Cream 1 cupful butter; add gradually 1 cupful brown sugar, then 

2 eggs, grated rind of 1 lemon and juice of y 2 lemon, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, y^ teaspoonful cloves. Mix well, roll thin, shape with cooky 
cutter, put a piece of citron or an almond on top of each, and bake in 
moderate oven. 

ALMOND BUTTER COOKIES. 
Cream y 2 pound sweet butter; add gradually y 2 pound pulverized 
sugar, then y 2 pound chopped almonds, yolks of 3 eggs, grated rind 
of 1 lemon, and a little of the juice and 3/i pound flour. Roll thin, 
shape with cooky cutter, brush with egg, sprinkle with a mixture of cin- 
namon, sugar and chopped almonds, and bake in buttered pans in moder- 
ate oven. 

ENGLISH BUTTER COOKIES. 
Cream 1 pound butter; add gradually 2 pounds brown sugar, then 
2 eggs, y cupful milk, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful cloves, 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 159 

flour to roll. Roll thin, shape with round cooky cutter, place a thin 
slice of citron, or an almond on top of each cake and bake in moderate 
oven. 

CARAWAY SEED COOKIES. 

Beat 2 eggs until light; add gradually 1% cupfuls sugar, then 1 
cupful melted butter, ^ cupful milk, and 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
mixed and sifted with 3 cupfuls flour. While rolling, sprinkle with 
caraway seed. Shape with cooky cutter, bake in buttered tins in mod- 
erate oven. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES, NO. 1. 

Beat until very light 8 eggs with 4 cupfuls sugar; add y 2 pound 
citron and y 2 pound almonds, chopped fine, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 1 
teaspoonful each of allspice and cloves, 4 tablespoonfuls brandy, y 2 
pound grated chocolate, 3 cupfuls flour mixed and sifted with 3 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Flour board, roll, shape with cooky cutter, 
brush with beaten egg mixed with 1 tablespoonful water, sprinkle with 
chopped almonds and bake in moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES, NO. 2. 
Beat 4 eggs until light; add gradually 2 cupfuls powdered sugar, 
y 2 pound chocolate, grated, y pound chopped almonds, y± pound 
chopped citron, \ l / 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful cloves, grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour enough to roll. 
Roll thin, shape with cooky cutter, brush with beaten egg, put y 2 
blanched almond on each, and bake in buttered pans in hot oven. 

DATE COOKIES. 
Cream 1 scant cupful butter; add 1 cupful brown sugar, y 2 cupful 
cold water, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little water, 2y 2 cupfuls 
rolled oats, 2y 2 cupfuls flour and a little salt. Flavor with vanilla. 

Filling. 
Stone and cut fine 1 pound dates and mix with 1 cupful sugar 
and y 2 cupful water. Cook in double boiler until thick. Roll out the 
cooky mixture, divide in two parts ; spread the filling on one half, cover 
with the other half, cut in strips and bake in moderate oven. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 
Cream 1 cupful butter; add gradually \y 2 cupfuls sugar and 3 eggs, 
well-beaten. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful soda in y 2 cupful milk and add to 
mixture. Dredge with flour and add 1 cupful chopped raisins, y 2 cupful 
currants, y 2 cupful chopped hickory nuts or walnuts. Then add y 2 tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice and about 3 cupfuls 
flour. Drop by spoonfuls \y 2 inches apart into buttered pans and bake 
in moderately quick oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 
Cream y 2 cupful butter and y 2 cupful lard; add 1 cupful brown 
sugar, y 2 cupful sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little 






160 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

milk, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 3 cupfuls oatmeal, 3 cupfuls flour, then 
2 eggs. Mix well, roll thin, shape with cooky cutter, brush with egg, 
sprinkle with sugar and a little cinnamon and bake in moderate oven. 

ORANGE COOKIES. 
Cream 2 cupfuls butter; add gradually 2 cupfuls sugar, then 3 
eggs, well beaten, 9 teaspoonfuls orange juice, and 4 cupfuls flour 
mixed and sifted with 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Roll thin, shape 
with cooky cutter and bake in buttered pans in hot oven. 

POPPY SEED COOKIES. 
Beat 2 eggs until light; add gradually \ l /> cupfuls pulverized sugar, 
1 cupful melted butter, % pound chopped almonds, 2 ounces citron, 
chopped fine, %. cupful poppy seed, 1 cupful milk, 3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder mixed and sifted with 3^2 cupfuls flour, or enough to roll. 
Roll thin, shape with cooky cutter, bake in buttered pans, in moderate 
oven. 

ROYAL COOKIES. 
Cream 1 pound butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sugar, then 4 cup- 
fuls sifted flour. Stir well. Add 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Mash fine the yolks of 2 "hard-boiled" eggs and add to mixture. Add 

1 at a time 4 eggs. Flavor with vanilla or lemon. If necessary, add 
more flour. Roll thin, shape with cooky cutter, brush with yolk of 
egg, sprinkle with chopped almonds and a little sugar and bake in quick 
oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 
Cream 1 heaping cupful butter ; add gradually 2 cupfuls sugar, then 

2 eggs. Beat well, then stir in 4 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 tablespoon- 
ful whiskey, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder mixed and sifted with 
enough flour to roll mixture thin (about 3 cupfuls). Shape with cooky 
cutter, brush with egg, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in quick oven. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 
Mix together j/ 2 cupful butter and */> cupful lard. Dissolve 1 tea- 
spoonful baking soda in a tablespoonful boiling water, stir it into 1 
cupful molasses and add to the butter and lard. Add 1 cupful brown 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful ginger, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. Mix well to- 
gether, then add 1 cupful strong boiling coffee and enough flour to 
make a soft dough. Roll lightly to Yz inch in thickness, shape with a 
round cutter and bake about 15 minutes in a moderately quick oven. 

THIN RICH COOKIES. 
Cream 1 cupful butter ; add gradually 1 cupful sugar and beat until 
light. Add 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful milk, and enough flour to roll. 
Flavor with vanilla, or juice and grated rind of l /z lemon. Roll thin, 
shape with cooky cutter, brush with yolk of egg, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon and chopped nuts or citron. Bake in quick oven. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 161 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Shape Queen Fritter batter A l / 2 inches long by 1 inch wide, by- 
forcing through a pastry bag and tube. Place 2 inches apart in but- 
tered tins and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. Frost, cool, cut open 
and fill with whipped cream. 

Frosting. 

Melt %. pound sweet chocolate ; add 1 tablespoonful milk and 1 tea- 
spoonful butter. Stir until dissolved. Dip top of each eclair in hot 
mixture and cool. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mix together 1 cupful brown sugar, 1 cupful molasses, 1 cupful 
shortening, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in 1 tablespoonful warm water, and sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. 
Place in ice box over night. Roll very thin, shape with cooky cutter 
and bake in moderate oven. Do not grease tins. 

HERMITS. 
Cream 1 cupful butter; add gradually 3/4 cupful sugar, 3 eggs, 1 
cupful seedless raisins, chopped fine, a very little chopped citron, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice and %. teaspoonful mace. 
Flour enough to roll thin. Shape with cooky cutter, bake in buttered 
tins in moderate oven. 

HICKORY NUT KISSES. 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs until very stiff ; add 1 cupful sifted pow- 
dered sugar, 1 cupful lightest brown sugar and 2 heaping cupfuls chopped 
hickory nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls \y 2 inches apart into buttered and 
floured pans. Bake in moderate oven. 

JUMBLES. 
Cream 1 cupful butter, add gradually 1 cupful sugar. Beat until 
very light. Then add one by one 3 eggs. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla and 3 tablespoonfuls Sherry wine. Sift in 2 cupfuls flour. Beat 
mixture well, then drop by teaspoonfuls into a slightly buttered and 
floured tin and bake in moderate oven until a light brown. 

LADY FINGERS. 
Beat until very light the yolks of 5 eggs with 5 tablespoonfuls 
sifted sugar ; then stir in carefully the stiffly-beaten whites of the 5 eggs. 
Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla or the juice of l / 2 lemon. Fold in 
5 tablespoonfuls sifted flour to which has been added a pinch of salt. 
Put batter in moulds, sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake in mod- 
erate oven. Remove from moulds, cool and put together in pairs. If 
moulds are not convenient, pour batter into a pastry bag, having a tube 
in the end, and shape 4j^ inches long and y 2 inch wide, in slightly 
greased tins covered with paper. 

LEB KUCHEN. 
Beat 5 whole eggs with 1 pound brown sugar; add a little salt, %. 
pound grated almonds, %. pound citron, chopped fine, 1 cake sweet 
chocolate, grated, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, l / 2 tea- 



162 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

spoonful allspice, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder mixed and sifted with 
2 cupfuls flour. Mix well, roll, cut in squares and bake in very mod- 
erate oven. When cold, frost with 1 cupful confectioners' sugar, mixed 
with a little milk and flavored with vanilla, or omit the frosting and 
sprinkle tops with chopped almonds. 

MARGUERITES. 
Make Boiled Frosting, add chopped hickory nuts and flavor with 
vanilla. Mix well, spread on saltines and brown in oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 
Beat to a stiff froth the whites of 2 eggs ; add gradually 1 cupful 
sifted sugar. Beat well, then mix in y 2 pound almonds, chopped fine. 
Drop by teaspoonfuls, \y 2 inches apart, into buttered and floured pans. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS, NO. 1. 
Add a pinch of cream tartar to the whites of 8 eggs and beat until 
very light. Add 1 pound sifted pulverized sugar, 1 cake German sweet 
chocolate (grated), 1 pound ground almonds, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Mix thoroughly, drop by teaspoonfuls, 1 inch apart, into heated but- 
tered tins and bake in moderate oven until light brown. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS, NO. 2. 
Beat to a stiff froth the whites of 2 eggs ; add gradually 1 cupful 
sifted confectioners' sugar and continue beating, then add y pound 
grated almonds, 2 bars German sweet chocolate (grated), a small pinch 
of cream tartar. Drop by teaspoonfuls \y 2 inches apart into buttered 
pans. Bake in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 
Beat whites of 3 eggs until very stiff; add gradually y 2 pound 
sifted powdered sugar, then y 2 pound grated fresh cocoanut. Flavor 
with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Drop by teaspoonfuls \ l / 2 inches apart, into 
buttered and floured pans, and bake in slow oven. 

DATE MACAROONS. 

Beat the whites of 4 eggs until very stiff ; add 1 pound sifted pow- 
dered sugar, 1 pound chopped dates, and y 2 pound chopped almonds ; stir 
well, then drop by teaspoonfuls, \y 2 inches apart, into buttered and 
floured pans, and bake in slow oven. 

MATZO MACAROONS. 

Beat whites of 3 eggs until very stiff ; add y 2 pound sifted sugar, y 2 
pound chopped almonds, 1 cake sweet chocolate, grated, and enough 
matzo flour to make stiff enough to drop by teaspoonfuls into buttered 
and floured pans. Bake in moderate oven. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 163 

NUT MACAROONS. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs until very light, add gradually 2 cupfuls 
brown sugar, beating constantly ; then add 2 cupfuls chopped pecans 
or walnuts sprinkled with % teaspoonful salt. Drop by teaspoonfuls 
\y 2 inches apart, into buttered and floured pans and bake in moderate 
oven until light brown. 

ROCKS. 
Cream 2 cupfuls sweet butter, add gradually 3 cupfuls brown sugar, 
yolks of 5 eggs, 2 pounds dates, stoned and cut (or 2 pounds figs, cut in 
small pieces), 2 pounds walnuts, broken in small pieces, and 4 cupfuls 
sifted flour. Stir well then add 1 tablespoonful each of cinnamon and 
cloves, 1 teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in 1 tablespoonful warm 
water, then the well-beaten whites of the 5 eggs. Drop by tablespoonfuls 
1^2 inches apart, into buttered pans and bake in moderate oven. The 
above will make about 100 rocks. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 
Beat together for 10 minutes 2 eggs and 1 cupful brown sugar ; add 
3 tablespoonfuls flour and a pinch of salt and beat again. Mix 1 cupful 
chopped walnuts with 2 tablespoonfuls flour and add to mixture. Bake 
in shallow pan, cool and cut in squares. 

ZWIEBACK. 
Prepare same as for Anise Seed Cakes, (page 158). Bake about 20 
minutes in buttered and floured tins, in moderate oven. Keep in a dry, 
cool place until the following day, then cut in strips about 4 inches long 
and \ l /t inches wide and bake again in a slow oven until well baked. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
CANDIES, ETC. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch y 2 pound almonds. Put in shallow pan and pour over 1 
tablespoonful olive oil (or a little more if necessary). Put on upper 
grate in moderate oven and shake often to prevent burning. When 
delicately browned remove from oven, drain on brown paper, then 
sprinkle with salt. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Mix in saucepan 1 cupful sugar, % cupful molasses, y 2 cupful 
butter, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls boiling water. Boil 15 
minutes, or until when tried in cold water, mixture becomes brittle. 
Pour into buttered tins, cool and cut in squares. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 
Put in saucepan on range 5 cupfuls sugar and 1 cupful milk. When 
sugar begins to melt add 4 heaping tablespoonfuls cocoanut. Boil 5 
minutes, stirring constantly. Pour into a buttered granite pie plate and 
beat with a fork until nearly stiff. Then cut in squares. 

MAPLE CREAM CANDY. 

Mix in saucepan 3 cupfuls brown sugar, y 2 cupful milk and butter 
size of a walnut. Stir until sugar is dissolved, then boil without stir- 
ring, until mixture forms a ball when dropped into cold water. Re- 
move from fire and beat until creamy. Pour on buttered plate, cool and 
cut in squares. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Put in a Scotch kettle 2 cupfuls New Orleans molasses, 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, y 2 cupful sugar. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Boil, 
stirring constantly, until when tried in cold water, mixture becomes 
brittle; then stir in 1 tablespoonful vinegar and y 2 teaspoonful soda 
and pour into well-buttered pans. When cool enough to handle, pull 
until light-colored, allowing candy to come in contact only with greased 
tips of fingers and thumbs. 

Cut in small pieces with shears and arrange on buttered platter. 

SEAFOAM CANDY. 
Put in a saucepan 3 cupfuls brown sugar, 1 cupful water. 1 
tablespoonful vinegar. Boil until a little of the mixture will harden 
when tested in cold water. Beat whites of 2 eggs until stiff, then slowly 
pour the syrup into the beaten eggs, stirring constantly. Add 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla and stir in almonds, peanuts or walnuts as preferred. 
Drop on oiled paper. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 165 

FRENCH CARAMELS. 
Put in saucepan 1 cupful cream or milk. 1 cupful molasses. 1 cup- 
ful sugar, % pound cocoa, a small piece of butter. Boil (stirring con- 
stantly) until mixture forms a soft ball when tested in cold water. Pour 
into buttered pans, cool and cut in squares. 

CREAM DATES. 
To 1 cupful confectioners' sugar add milk enough to mould. 
Flavor with vanilla. Remove stones from dates and fill cavities with 
balls of the cream. Any fruit or nuts may be substituted for dates. 

STUFFED DATES. 
Remove stones from dates and fill cavities with walnuts, blanched 
almonds, pecans or with a mixture of chopped nuts. Shape in original 
form and roll in powdered sugar. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 
Melt over hot water 2 squares chocolate, add 2 cupfuls white, 
brown or maple sugar, ^4 cupful milk or cream and 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter. Stir until mixture is dissolved. Boil (stirring constantly) about 
12 minutes, or until by dropping a little in cold water, it forms a soft 
ball. Remove from fire, slightly cool, then add 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
and stir in one direction until creamy. Pour into buttered pans, cool 
and cut in squares. Chopped nuts may be stirred in before pouring 
into pans. 

COCOA FUDGE. 

Substitute %. cupful cocoa for chocolate, and follow recipe for 
Chocolate Fudge. 

FRENCH SWEETS. 

Remove stems from ]/ 2 pound figs and stones from y 2 pound 
dates. Mix fruit with 1 cupful English walnut meats and 1 cupful 
hickory nut meats and force mixture through a meat chopper on to board 
dredged with powdered sugar. Work with hands until well mixed. Roll 
to %. inch thickness, using powdered sugar on board and rolling pin. 
Cut in small squares, dip in powdered sugar and pack in layers in a tin 
box, placing paraffine paper between layers. 

French sweets may be used at dinners in place of bonbons. 

GLACE NUTS OR FRUITS. 
Put in saucepan 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful boiling water, J /& tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar. Stir until sugar is dissolved, then boil well, 
without stirring, until mixture hardens when tried in cold water. With 
a brush, dipped in cold water, quickly remove sugar if it adheres to 
sides of pan. Remove saucepan from fire and place in large pan of 
cold water to instantly stop boiling, then quickly place in pan of hot 
water to keep syrup from hardening. Put nuts or fruit separately on 



166 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

a long pin, dip quickly in syrup, remove and place on oiled paper. 
Oranges and tangerines are separated into sections 2 hours before dip- 
ping, so that they will be dry. As glace fruits keep but a day, they 
should be made only in cold weather. 

CANDIED GRAPE FRUIT RIND. 
Cut grape fruit rind in strips with scissors. Soak 48 hours in salt 
and water (1 tablespoonful salt to 1 quart water). Drain, cover with 
cold water and boil gently for 2 hours. Do this three times (making 6 
hours). Drain, being careful not to break rind. Make a syrup of 1 
pound sugar to 1 cupful water for every pound of fruit. Simmer 1 
hour. Remove fruit with spoon and fork, roll in powdered or con- 
fectioners' sugar and place on large platters to dry and harden a little. 
Keep in covered box. 

CANDIED POP CORN. 
Melt in a saucepan 2 ounces butter, add 2 cupfuls brown sugar 
and y 2 cupful water. Boil 15 minutes. Have ready in a bowl 2 quarts 
popped corn. Pour syrup over and stir until every kernel is coated with 
the syrup. 

HOW TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 
Pour boiling water over almonds and let stand on back of stove 
10 minutes. Drain, rub off skins, and dry between towels. 

TOASTED MARSHMALLOWS. 
Place marshmallows on wire broiler in gas oven under the flame 
and toast until brown on both sides, turning frequently. 

PENOCHE. 
Put in a saucepan 2 cupfuls brown sugar and 1 cupful cream or 
milk. Boil (stirring constantly) until mixture forms a soft ball when 
tested in cold water. Remove from range, add 1 tablespoonful butter 
and 1 teaspoonful vanilla and beat until creamy and thick. Pour into 
buttered pan, and when firm cut in squares. 

MAPLE PENOCHE. 
Put in a saucepan 1 cupful brown sugar, Y* pound maple sugar, 
1 cupful milk. Boil (stirring constantly) until mixture forms a soft 
ball when tested in cold water. Remove from range, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter and Y* cupful chopped nuts. Beat until creamy and thick. 
Pour into a buttered pan and when firm cut in squares. 

STUFFED PRUNES. 
Soak prunes a few hours to freshen, or steam them for a few min- 
utes, then proceed as for Stuffed Dates. (Page 165). 

CREAM TAFFY. 
Put in saucepan 3 cupfuls granulated sugar, ^2 cupful vinegar, */£ 
cupful water, a small piece of butter. Stir until sugar is dissolved; 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 167 

then boil without stirring until, when tried in cold water, mixture be- 
comes brittle. Pour in buttered pans and when nearly cold, pull until 
perfectly white. 

CREAM WALNUTS. 
Boil 2 cupfuls brown sugar, 2 /z cupful boiling water and Yt. salt- 
spoonful cream of tartar until mixture threads. Partly cool, then stir 
in chopped walnuts, and drop on oiled paper to harden. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

CANNING. 

Wash jars thoroughly, fit with new rubber rings, fill with warm 
water, screw on tops and invert. If jars do not leak they are air tight. 
Wash covers and rubber rings and keep in warm place until ready 
to use. 

Fruit should be fresh, of the best quality, and not too ripe. 

For syrup, allow 1 cupful sugar to each 2 cupfuls water; some- 
times a little more or less sugar, according to the amount of acid in 
fruit. It saves time to have ready on back of range an extra kettle 
containing enough syrup for one or two jars of fruit. 

When ready to can, pour water from jar and dip it in hot water. 
Wring a towel out of hot water and wrap around jar, fill with the cooked 
fruit, then to overflowing with hot syrup. Insert a silver knife around 
the inside of the jar that the air bubbles may rise to the top and break, 
then quickly put on rubber ring and screw on top. Stand jars over night 
where the air will not strike them. Next morning again tighten covers, 
wipe jars and put in a cool, dark place. 

CANNED BEANS. 
Select young beans. After carefully removing strings, cut beans 
in crosswise pieces ; wash and drain. Pack in clean, air-tight jars, 
filling each jar as full as possible. Pour cold water into jars, filling 
them to overflowing, adjust rubbers and screw on tops. Stand jars 
in a boiler, in the bottom of which is a rack or piece of wood. Separate 
the jars with straw, fill boiler with cold water, cover and cook beans 
about 3 hours. Remove jars from boiler, tighten covers and put in a 
cool, dark place. When ready to use, cook until tender. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 
Wash and stem 2 quarts large, dark, sweet cherries, or large ox- 
heart cherries. Boil 1^2 cupfuls sugar and 1 cupful water 10 minutes. 
Add cherries and cook 5 minutes. Fill jars to overflowing and screw 
on tops. 

CANNED HUCKLEBERRIES. 
Follow recipe for Canned Red Raspberries. (Page 169). 

CANNED PEACHES. 
Boil until clear 2 quarts water and 4 cupfuls sugar. Pare and cut 
early Crawford peaches in halves and cook (a few at a time) in the 
syrup until tender, testing with a silver fork. Fill jars, following 
Directions for Canning. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 169 

CANNED PEARS. 

Wipe and pare Bartlett pears, cut in halves and remove cores. A 
few slices of lemon or preserved ginger may be cooked with fruit. If 
pears are hard, parboil in boiling water, then cook (a few at a time) 
in the syrup until tender. Fill jars, following Directions for Canning. 

If the pears are ripe, do not parboil them in water first, but cook 
only in the hot syrup. 

CANNED PINEAPPLES. 

Remove skin and eyes from 3 pineapples. Cut in quarters and 
remove cores. Slice, put in a bowl and cover with 3 cupfuls sugar. 
Let stand over night, then put in preserving kettle, add 3 cupfuls water 
and cook until fruit is tender. Fill jars to overflowing and seal. 

Three pineapples will fill two jars. It is well to have a little extra 
syrup prepared in case there is not quite enough to fill the two jars. 

CANNED QUINCES. 
Wash, quarter, core and pare quinces, parboil in boiling water, 
then cook (a few at a time) in the syrup until tender. Slices of lemon 
may be added. Fill jars, following Directions for Canning. 

CANNED BLACK RASPBERRIES. 
Allow Y\ cupful sugar and %. cupful water to 3 pints black rasp- 
berries, and proceed as for Canned Strawberries. 

CANNED RED RASPBERRIES. 
Allow 94 cupful sugar and % cupful water to 3 pints red rasp- 
berries and proceed as for Canned Strawberries. 

CANNED RHUBARB. 
Wash young and tender rhubarb and cut in 2-inch pieces. Put in 
jars, fill to overflowing with fresh, cold water, and screw on tops. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 
To fill 1-quart can, take 3 pints strawberries, \y 2 cupfuls sugar 
and y 2 cupful water. Wash and hull berries, place on platter, sprinkle 
with sugar and let stand 1 hour. Then put in kettle with the ^ cupful 
water and heat to boiling point. Fill jar to overflowing and screw 
on top. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 
Wipe fresh, smooth, red tomatoes, cover with boiling water and 
let stand until skins may be easily removed. Quarter, heat gradually 
to boiling point, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Season with 
salt. Cook steadily 30 minutes, skimming often. Fill jars to over- 
flowing and seal. 

CANNED TOMATOES FOR SOUP. 
Wipe tomatoes, but do not remove skins, then proceed as for 
Canned Tomatoes. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

JELLY. 

RULES FOR MAKING JELLY. 

In order to have clear jelly, the fruit should be perfectly fresh, ripe 
(never over-ripe) and all blemishes should be removed. Put fruit into 
porcelain preserving kettle with just enough water added to the small 
fruits to keep them from burning; the larger fruits, such as quinces 
and crabapples, require more water. Cook fruit slowly until soft, 
stirring occasionally. Pour into a pointed flannel bag hung between 
two chairs, and let drip over night into a kettle. Strain juice through 
a fine hair sieve, measure and return to kettle. Add heated sugar, 
allowing 1 pound to each pint of juice. Sugar should be heated in 
porcelain dish in oven (leaving oven door open) and stirred frequently 
to prevent burning. Boil juice rapidly for 15 minutes, then quickly 
stir in the hot sugar, and boil 5 minutes longer, or until sugar is thor- 
oughly dissolved. Then skim and pour into glasses. The bag may 
now be squeezed until dry, the juice strained and made into jelly, and 
if not quite so clear as the first, may be used for cakes and sauces. 
While jelly is cooking, place glasses in a kettle of cold water on range. 
Heat water slowly to boiling point. Remove glasses, drain and place on 
hot plate while filling. Break paraffine in small pieces, melt in a small 
kettle, pour it over jelly having the coating about }4 inch in thickness, 
then put on the tin covers. 

If preserves or jelly are not firm when cold, cover with window 

glass to keep off insects, and let stand in the sun for several days. This 

is a better method than boiling the juice again, as too much boiling 

destroys both flavor and color. Jelly should be kept in a cool, dry place. 

HOW TO MAKE A JELLY BAG. 

Fold two opposite corners of a large square of flannel so as to 
form a triangle. Fell the side seams, bind the top with heavy tape and 
fasten on the upper side two or three heavy loops, by which it may 

be hung up. 

APPLE JELLY. 
Wipe and cut tart and juicy apples in quarters, half cover with 
water then proceed as for Damson Plum and Crabapple Jelly. (Page 
171). 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 171 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Follow recipe for Currant Jelly, substituting blackberries for cur- 
rants. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick over red currants (cherry currants make the best jelly), but 
do not remove stems. Wash, drain, put in preserving kettle and cook 
until soft. Drain through a coarse strainer, then let juice drip through 
a jelly bag. Measure juice and boil 10 minutes. Add an equal measure 
of heated sugar and boil 5 minutes longer. Skim, pour into glasses 
and put in a sunny place for 24 hours. Cover and keep in a cool, dry 
place. By using equal proportions of red and white currants a much 
lighter color is obtained. 

CURRANT AND RED RASPBERRY JELLY. 
Wash equal quantities of currants and raspberries (but do not 
stem currants), then proceed as for Currant Jelly. 

BLACKBERRY AND RED CURRANT JELLY. 
Pick over and wash fruit, using % blackberries to }i cherry cur- 
rants (but do not remove stems from currants) ; then follow recipe for 
Currant Jelly. 

CRABAPPLE JELLY. 
Wash and cut in halves large, ripe crabapples, half cover with 
water, then proceed as for Damson Plum and Crabapple Jelly. 

DAMSON PLUM AND CRABAPPLE JELLY. 
Wash an equal quantity of Damson plums and ripe crabapples. 
Cut crabapples in halves, and put into preserving kettle with just enough 
water to keep them from burning. Cook until almost soft, stirring fre- 
quently. Add plums and cook until very soft. Drain through a coarse 
strainer, then let juice drip through jelly bag. Measure juice and boil 
10 minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated sugar and boil 5 minutes. 
Skim, pour into glasses and place in a sunny window for 24 hours. 
Cover and keep in a cool, dry place. 

GRAPE JELLY. 
Wash and remove stems from Concord or Isabella grapes. Heat 
to boiling point, mash and boil 20 minutes or until soft; then proceed 
as for Currant Jelly. White grapes or wild grapes make delicious jelly. 

QUINCE JELLY. 
Wash quinces and cut in quarters, or use only the parings and in- 
ferior pieces (reserving the best pieces for preserves), then proceed 
as for Damson Plum and Crabapple Jelly. 

RED RASPBERRY JELLY. 
Pick over fresh (but not too ripe) raspberries then proceed as for 
Currant Jelly. A rose geranium leaf placed in each glass before jelly 
is poured in will give a delicious flavor to the jelly. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

PRESERVES, JAMS, ETC. 

BAR LE DUC. 
Eight pounds of currants will fill about 20 jelly glasses. If using 
that quantity, stem and wash the red currants and put in preserving 
kettle only enough to make 4 cupfuls juice. Heat, strain and return 
juice to kettle. Add 4 cupfuls sugar and heat to boiling point. Then 
measure remaining currants, allow an even cupful sugar to each heap- 
ing bowl of currants, and add to syrup. Cook about 25 minutes or until 
thick. Pour into glasses, cool and cover with paraffine. 

CHERRY CONSERVE. 
Remove stones from 5 pounds sour cherries. Peel and chop fine 
the rind of 4 oranges and cook in a little water until tender. Add 5 
pounds sugar to cherries and cook 15 minutes, then add the cooked rind, 
the chopped pulp of the oranges and 2 pounds seeded raisins, chopped. 
Cook 20 minutes and put in jelly glasses. 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE. 
Put in preserving kettle 3 pounds red currants, 3 pounds goose- 
berries, 4 boxes red raspberries, 1 pound seeded raisins, 1 pound 
chopped walnuts, 3 lemons and 3 oranges, cut fine, and 7 pounds 
sugar. Heat slowly to boiling point, then cook slowly and steadily 
% hour. Fill glasses. 

GRAPE CONSERVE. 
Remove stems and seeds from 7 pounds grapes (not quite ripe). 
Cook skins and pulp 1 hour. Add 3 pounds sugar and cook l / 2 hour. 
Then add rind of 3 large oranges, chopped fine, the juice of the oranges 
and 1 pound seedless raisins. Cook about 15 minutes or until thick. 
Pour into jelly glasses, cool and cover with paraffine. 

PRUNE CONSERVE. 
Cook slowly for 1 hour, 7 pounds prunes (from which the stones 
have been removed), 6 pounds sugar, 1 pound seedless raisins, the 
grated rind and juice of 4 oranges, and of 3 lemons and l / 2 pound 
chopped walnut meats. Put in jelly glasses. 

RASPBERRY CONSERVE. 
Weigh, then cook 3 quarts raspberries and 3 quarts gooseberries 
or red currants y 2 hour. Add sugar, allowing 24 pound sugar to 
each pound fruit. Cook slowly 20 minutes longer. Pour into glasses, 
cool and cover with paraffine. 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 173 

STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. 
Wash and hull 3 quarts strawberries. Pare, remove eyes and 
cut fine 1 large, ripe pineapple. Cut in thin slices 2 oranges. Measure 
and cover with sugar, allowing an even bowl of sugar to a heaping bowl 
of fruit. Let stand over night. Cook slowly and steadily 24 hour or 
until thick. Put in jelly glasses. 

BLACK CURRANT JAM. 
Wash 6 pounds black currants and 2 pounds red currants, remove 
stems, weigh and put in preserving kettle. Cook 20 minutes. Add 
sugar, allowing 24 pound sugar to each pound fruit. Cook }i hour, 
stirring frequently. Put in glasses, cool and cover with paraffme. 

RASPBERRY JAM, NO. 1. 
Pick over raspberries, weigh and put in preserving kettle. Heat 
to boiling point, then add heated sugar, allowing 24 pound sugar to 
1 pound berries. Cook slowly and steadily 45 minutes or until thick. 
Put in jars or glasses, cool and seal. 

RASPBERRY JAM, NO. 2. 
Pick over raspberries, weigh and put in preserving kettle. Add 
1 pint red currant juice to every 5 pounds raspberries. Cook 10 
minutes, add granulated sugar, allowing 24 pound sugar to each pound 
fruit. Skim and stir frequently. Cook 24 hour longer, then put in 
jars or glasses, cool and seal. 

STRAWBERRY JAM, NO. 1. 
Follow recipe for Raspberry Jam, No. 1, substituting strawberries 
for raspberries. 

STRAWBERRY JAM, NO. 2. 

Wash and hull 2 boxes strawberries. Heat 2 pounds sugar in pre- 
serving kettle without any water, putting an asbestos mat under kettle 
to prevent sugar from burning. Cook 2 minutes, then add berries and 
cook 3 minutes longer. Put in glasses, cool and seal. 

Raspberries may be substituted for the strawberries. 

ORANGE MARMALADE, NO. 1. 
Twelve oranges, 4 lemons. Peel 6 oranges and 2 lemons. Cut rind 
in thin strips, boil until tender and set aside. Grate rind from remain- 
ing 6 oranges and 2 lemons, rejecting the white inner skin. Cut all 
the oranges and lemons in small pieces, removing seeds. Boil 6 pounds 
sugar in 1 pint water until it threads ; then add the rind and fruit and 
cook slowly and steadily 25 minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE, NO. 2. 
Peel 1 dozen oranges and 4 lemons, and cut them in thin slices. 
Remove seeds. Cut the peel of the lemons and oranges in fine strips 
and let soak 24 hours in 2 quarts of water. Add the slices of oranges 
and lemons and cook slowly 2 hours, then add 5 pounds sugar and cook 
until thick. Put in jelly glasses. 



174 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

PEACH MARMALADE. 
Remove skin and stones from peaches. Weigh fruit and put in 
preserving kettle. Remove kernels from a few of the peach stones, 
cook in a little water until soft, cut fine and add to peaches. Heat slowly 
to boiling point, then add sugar, allowing y 2 pound sugar to each pound 
fruit. Cook quite rapidly for 10 minutes, stirring constantly, then cook 
more moderately ^2 hour longer or until thick. Put in jars or jelly 
glasses. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Remove skin and eyes from pineapples. Pick into small pieces 
with a silver fork. Weigh and allow yi pound sugar and y$ cupful 
water to each pound pineapple. Boil sugar and water together until 
it threads, then add pineapple and boil slowly and steadily about 30 
minutes. Pour into jelly glasses. 

PLUM MARMALADE. 
Follow recipe for Peach Marmalade, substituting plums for 
peaches, and adding a little more sugar if plums are tart. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 
Wash and pare quinces, cut in quarters and remove seeds. Weigh 
fruit and put in cold water until ready to use. Cook skins and cores 
until soft in just enough water to cover. When tender, strain water 
through a colander into preserving kettle and add quinces. Boil 20 
minutes, then add sugar, allowing 24 pound sugar and juice of y 2 
orange to each pound fruit. Boil slowly 1 hour or until thick, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning. Put in jars or jelly glasses. 

GRAPE PRESERVES. 

Press pulp from grapes and put skins and pulp in separate kettles. 

Heat both to boiling point, then strain pulp and add to skins. Measure 

and allow }i. pint sugar to each pint fruit. Return to kettle and boil 

steadily l /z hour. Pour into jelly glasses, cool and cover with paraffine. 

PEAR GINGER PRESERVES. 

Pare and slice thin 4 pounds hard pears. Cut fine the rind of 2 
lemons. Parboil % pound green ginger; peel and cut fine. Put in 
preserving kettle with y 2 pint water, 3 pounds sugar and the juice of 
the 2 lemons. Cook until thick. Put in jelly glasses, cool and cover 
with paraffine. 

APPLE GINGER PRESERVES. 

Substitute apples for pears and follow recipe for Pear Ginger Pre- 
serves. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Pare, cut in halves and remove stones from Crawford peaches. 
Weigh and put in cold water until ready to cook. To each pound of 
fruit allow y> pound sugar and %. cupful water. Boil sugar and water 
until clear, removing all scum. Add cloves and allspice, tied in a small 
bag, a few peach kernels, cut in small pieces, and the peaches. Cook 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 175 

slowly until peaches are tender. Remove carefully with a perforated 
skimmer and place in jars. Boil syrup until thick, then pour over 
peaches. Seal air-tight. 

PEAR PRESERVES. 

Pare and cut in halves 12 pounds hard pears and put in cold 
water to prevent them from discoloring. Drain, put in preserving 
kettle with 2 cupfuls water and heat to boiling point. Add 4 sliced 
lemons, and gradually 6 pounds sugar. Cook slowly 3 hours, then add 
Y* jar of preserved or candied ginger, cut in small pieces. Cover 
kettle and cook 1 hour or until dark red. Fill jars and screw on tops. 

PRUNE OR PLUM PRESERVES, NO. 1. 
Stem, wash and drain prunes (they should not be too ripe). Prick 
with a fork to prevent skin from cracking. Weigh fruit. Make a syrup, 
allowing Ya pound sugar and ^ cupful water to each pound of fruit. 
When syrup is clear, skim, add cinnamon and cloves tied in a small 
bag, and enough prunes to cover bottom of kettle. Cook until prunes 
are tender, then remove to platter with perforated skimmer. Repeat 
until all are cooked. Boil syrup until thick, add prunes and cook slowly 
20 minutes longer. Put in jars and seal. 

PRUNE PRESERVES, NO. 2. 
Wash prunes and remove stones. Weigh fruit and put in kettle 
with 1 cupful water. Heat slowly to boiling point. Add sugar gradually 
(allowing a full Y* pound sugar to 1 pound fruit). Cook from 2 to 3 
hours. Fill jars and screw on tops. 

QUINCE AND APPLE PRESERVES. 
Wipe, pare and cut in quarters Y* peek of large, sweet apples and 
1 peck quinces. Remove seeds. Weigh fruit and allow Y\ pound 
sugar to each pound fruit. Parboil quinces in just enough water to 
cover, then remove to a platter. Make a syrup of 3 pounds sugar to 
1 pint water, using the water in which quinces were cooked. Boil 
until clear. Skim, then add quinces, apples and 6 lemons, sliced thin, 
cover and cook slowly until fruit is tender and a deep red color. Put 
in jars or glasses. 

SOUR CHERRY PRESERVES. 
Remove stones from cherries, then follow recipe for Strawberry 
Preserves, No. 2. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES, NO. 1. 
To each full quart of hulled berries add 1 scant quart sugar. Cook 
slowly and steadily 20 minutes, put in jars or glasses and seal. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES, NO. 2. 

Wash, drain and hull strawberries. Measure, putting 3 heaping 
bowls of berries on a platter. Cover fruit on each platter with 3 scant 
bowls granulated sugar. Let stand over night. Cook each platter of 



176 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

fruit separately. Cook slowly at first, so sugar will not burn. When 
sugar is dissolved, cook steadily 20 minutes, or a little longer, if not thick 
enough. 

TOMATO PRESERVES. 
Skin and chop 5 pounds small, yellow or red tomatoes. Chop 3 
oranges and 3 lemons. Put in preserving kettle ; add 5 pounds granu- 
lated sugar and cook 1 hour. 

PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND, NO. 1. 
Pare and cut in strips the rind of a ripe watermelon. To 6 pounds 
rind allow 3 pounds sugar. Put in preserving kettle 1 pint vinegar, the 
sugar, 2 lemons, sliced, and a few cloves and pieces of cinnamon tied 
in a small bag. Boil 10 minutes. Add rind and cook until tender, but 
not soft. Test with a silver fork. Remove rind to jars ; boil syrup 5 
minutes longer and pour over rind. Cover air-tight and keep in a cool, 
dark place. 

PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND OR CITRON, NO. 2. 

Pare and cut in strips the rind of a ripe watermelon or of a citron. 
To 6 pounds of rind, allow 3 pounds sugar and 1 cupful vinegar. Let 
stand over night, then add 1 cupful water, 1 lemon, sliced, and 3 or 4 
large pieces of green ginger root, peeled and cut in thin slices. Boil 
slowly about 4 hours, or longer, if necessary. Put in jars or jelly 
glasses. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Pare and grate 4 large quinces. Boil 3 pounds sugar in 1 pint of 
water until it threads, then add fruit and cook 30 minutes. Pour into 
jelly glasses. 

RED TOMATO BUTTER. 

Peel and weigh tomatoes, put in preserving kettle and when they 
begin to draw juice, add sugar, allowing % pound sugar to each pound 
tomatoes. Cook slowly from 5 to 6 hours, pour into jars or glasses 
and seal. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

Put in a 3-gallon crock 1 pint good brandy or alcohol, add any 
desired fruit as it comes into market. To each bowl of fruit add 1 bowl 
of sugar. Stir mixture every morning until all the fruit has been added. 
Large fruit should be cut in small pieces ; stones removed from cherries 
and seeds from oranges. Do not use fruits that have a great many seeds. 
Keep the jar well covered and during the summer stir once a week. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 

SPICED AND PICKLED FRUIT. 

SPICED CRABAPPLES. 
Follow recipe for Spiced Pears, (page 178) using crabapples in- 
stead of pears. 

PICKLED CRABAPPLES. 
Wash crabapples, but do not remove stems, then follow recipe for 
Pickled Peaches. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 
Wash and pit cherries, cover with vinegar and let stand over night. 
Drain. To each bowl cherries take same quantity of sugar, put in 
a crock, and stir every day until sugar is dissolved. Cover well. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 
Wash and remove stones and stems from 5 pounds dark red cher- 
ries. Boil 3 pounds granulated sugar, y 2 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful each of ground allspice and cloves. 
Add cherries and cook until thick. 

SPICED GRAPES. 
Press the pulp from grapes and remove seeds. Weigh pulp and 
skins, allowing 4 pounds sugar, 1 cupful vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls cinna- 
mon, 2 teaspoonfuls cloves to 6 pounds fruit. Mix well and cook 
slowly and steadily }4 hour. Pour into jelly glasses. 

BRANDIED PEACHES. 
Pare large Crawford peaches and put in cold water to prevent 
them from discoloring. Make a syrup, allowing 1 pound cut loaf sugar 
and Yz cupful water to each pound fruit. Heat syrup to boiling point 
and skim. Cook peaches (a few at a time) until tender, testing with 
a silver fork. Remove carefully to a crock. When all the peaches are 
cooked, drain syrup from crock back into kettle and cook until thick, 
then pour over peaches. When cold, add brandy, using a good quality, 
and allowing y 2 cupful to each pound of fruit. Seal. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 
Put into preserving kettle 1 pint and 1 gill of vinegar, 1*4 cupfuls 
water, 6 pounds granulated sugar and a small bag of stick cinnamon, 
broken in pieces and mixed with cloves. Boil 10 minutes or until clear. 
Pare 1 basket of peaches, or if the skins are left on, dip peaches in 
boiling water and wipe dry. Put only enough peaches in kettle to 
cover the bottom and cook them until tender, testing with a silver 
fork. Remove with a perforated skimmer, place in jars and cover to 



178 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

keep hot. When all the peaches are cooked, drain the syrup from the 
jars into preserving kettle. Cook about 10 minutes longer, then pour 
over fruit. 

SPICED PEARS. 

Boil 20 minutes 1 pint vinegar, y 2 pint water, 5 pounds sugar, 
about 4 sticks cinnamon broken in pieces, and 1 tablespoonful whole 
cloves. Add 1 peck Seckel pears. Cook slowly 5 hours. Fill jars 
and seal. 

PICKLED PRUNES. 

Wipe with a damp cloth 1 peck German or French prunes. Prick 
each with a silver fork to prevent skin from cracking. Boil until clear 
1 pint vinegar and 1 cupful water with Ay 2 pounds sugar. Add cinna- 
mon and cloves, tied in a small bag, and enough prunes to fill one jar. 
Cook until tender, but not too soft, and remove to heated jar with per- 
forated skimmer. Repeat until all the prunes are cooked. Drain syrup 
from jars into kettle and cook about 10 minutes longer, then pour over 
prunes and screw on tops. One peck prunes will fill 7 quart jars. 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 
PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

Never put pickles in copper or tin kettles. Use porcelain-lined or 
granite ware. Use wooden spoon, never metal. 

Pickles should be kept in a dark, dry place in crocks or glass jars. 

Use the best cider vinegar for pickles and the best white wine 
vinegar for fruit. 

A small piece of alum scalded with pickles makes them crisp. 

TO MAKE A BRINE. 
Put enough coarse salt or rock salt in water to float an egg. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Cook very small sugar beets in boiling water until tender, remove 
skins, then put in jars. Boil for 10 minutes vinegar and sugar (allowing 
1 pound sugar to 1 quart vinegar). Season with salt and pepper. Pour 
over beets and screw on tops. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Peel and slice 20 tomatoes. Chop fine, 6 onions, 6 stalks 
celery and 2 red peppers (seeds removed). Cook slowly \y 2 hours, 
then add 3 cupfuls vinegar, 1 cupful sugar, \y 2 tablespoonfuls salt, y 2 
nutmeg, grated, and 1 tablespoonful each of whole cinnamon, allspice 
and cloves, tied in a bag, and cook slowly and steadily y 2 hour longer 
or until thick. Pour into bottles and seal while hot. 

CORN RELISH. 
Chop 1 small head cabbage until fine, salt and let stand 2 hours, 
then squeeze dry. Cut corn from 1 dozen ears; chop 3 stalks celery 
and 4 large red peppers until fine, using the seeds of only 1 pepper. 
Mix well, then season with 2 tablespoonfuls dry mustard, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls salt, 1 cupful sugar. Add 1 quart vinegar and 1 quart water and 
boil Y\ hour. Put in quart bottles and screw on tops. 

LARGE YELLOW CUCUMBERS, (PICKLED). 
Pare with a silver knife 1 dozen large, yellow cucumbers. Cut in 
halves lengthwise, remove seeds, cut in strips about 5 inches long and 
y 2 inch thick, sprinkle with salt and let stand over night. Next morn- 
ing drain thoroughly and scald in 1 pint vinegar mixed with 2 quarts 
water. Again drain. Put in ^-gallon jars and add to each jar 2 bay 
leaves, 1 teaspoonful mustard seed and y 2 teaspoonful whole cloves. 
Boil 2 quarts vinegar with \y 2 pounds sugar; season with 1 table- 
spoonful ground ginger, y 2 teaspoonful cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon- 
ful ground mace ; pour over cucumbers and screw on tops. 



180 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

DILL PICKLES. 

Wash and scrub with a small brush 100 medium-sized cucumbers 
and 2 large, red peppers, and let stand in water for a few hours. 
Drain. Put in a large crock a layer of cucumbers ; cover with dill, 
green grapes (mashed), red pepper, cut fine, and whole black pepper. 
Repeat until the crock is almost filled, putting plenty of dill on top. 
Scald 2 cupfuls salt in 7 quarts water, cool and pour over cucumbers. 
(If necessary,) scald and add more brine, as the cucumbers should be 
well covered. Cover with a cloth, then a plate with stone on top to 
keep cucumbers under the brine. Put in a warm place for 10 days to 
ferment, then remove to cooler place. Remove scum and wash cloth 
three times a week. 

If desired, use 1 quart vinegar to each 7 quarts water, instead of 
green grapes. 

MUSTARD PICKLES, NO. 1. 
Put in brine over night 300 small pickles, 3 quarts small onions, 
peeled, 25 large cucumbers, pared and sliced, 2 cauliflowers and 2, 
large, red peppers, cut in small pieces. Next morning drain vegetables 
thoroughly, put in crock and cover with vinegar and water, using Yj, 
vinegar to 2 /z water. Let stand 2 weeks, stirring every day. Then drain 
and dry vegetables thoroughly and again put in crock, add 3 ounces 
whole white ginger, 1 ounce whole cloves, 2 ounces garlic, cut fine, and 
1 head of celery, cut in small pieces. Heat 1 gallon vinegar with 2 
pounds brown sugar, 3 ounces salt, y 2 ounce each of ground mace and 
white pepper. Mix y 2 pound mustard with 2 ounces tumeric, dissolve 
in a little cold vinegar, add to hot vinegar and stir until thick. If it 
does not thicken sufficiently, dissolve 1 small cupful cornstarch in a 
little cold vinegar and stir into the hot vinegar. Add a piece of butter, 
size of an egg, and pour over pickles. Cool, cover crock and tie a 
white cloth over top. 

MUSTARD PICKLES, NO. 2. 

Soak in brine over night 500 small pickles, 3 quarts small silver 
onions, peeled, 12 large cucumbers, 2 heads of cauliflower and 2 red 
peppers, cut in pieces. Next morning dry vegetables, put in crock 
and add 1 bunch of celery, cut in small pieces. Heat iy gallons 
vinegar in porcelain-lined kettle. Mix 1^2 pounds mustard with 2 
tablespoonfuls tumeric ; dissolve in a little cold vinegar, then stir into 
the hot vinegar and continue stirring until smooth. Add iy> ounces 
mixed spices, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Keep stirring until 
mixture thickens, then pour over pickles. When cold pour a little 
salad oil over top of pickles, cover crock and tie a white cloth over 
top. Keep in a dry, cool place. 

The above will fill a 3-gallon crock. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 
Peel 6 quarts small onions and let stand over night in a strong 
brine. Next morning drain. Boil together 2 quarts vinegar, 2 pounds 



THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 181 

sugar, 1 tablespoonful mustard seed, 1 tablespoonful celery seed, 2 
bay leaves, and a small bag containing 1 tablespoonful each of whole 
cloves and whole peppers, 1 stick of cinnamon, broken in pieces, and 1 
teaspoonful cassia buds. Add onions, heat to boiling point, then re- 
move to jars with a skimmer. Boil vinegar 5 minutes longer, then pour 
over onions and screw on tops. 

OIL PICKLES. 
Slice very thin 100 small pickles and 1 quart small onions ; sprinkle 
with y 2 cupful salt, put in a colander, cover with a plate, put a stone 
on top and let drain 5 hours. Fill jars. Mix 1 ounce celery seed, 2 
ounces mustard seed, 1 teaspoonful cayenne pepper with 1 cupful olive 
oil. Add gradually 2 quarts cold vinegar, pour over pickles and screw 
on tops. 

PICCALILLI. 
Chop fine and mix together Yz peck green tomatoes, 3 large onions, 
1 large cabbage, 6 bunches celery, 3 red peppers (removing seeds). 
Salt well, (a bowlful at a time), and pour into a large bowl or crock to 
stand over night. Next morning drain, squeeze dry and return to crock. 
Season mixture with 4 tablespoonfuls mustard seed and 2 teaspoonfuls 
each of ground cloves, cinnamon, allspice and mace. Cook for 20 
minutes, 1 gallon vinegar with 2 pounds light, brown sugar and pour 
hot over mixture. When cold cover and tie a white cloth over top. 

PICKLES FOR IMMEDIATE USE. 
Pare and cut large cucumbers in lengthwise pieces ; salt, press with 
a plate and let stand over night. Next morning drain and put in a 
crock, sprinkling each layer with mustard seed, whole peppers, a few 
sliced onions and a bay leaf. Cover with vinegar. 

PICKLED RED PEPPERS. 
Wash, remove seeds and cut 1 peck red peppers in thin, lengthwise, 
strips and put in brine over night. Next morning drain and put in pint 
jars. Boil 1 quart vinegar and 2 cupfuls sugar 10 minutes and pour 
over peppers. Screw on tops and keep in cool place. 

SWEET VINEGAR PICKLES. 
Cut 2 red peppers in strips, add to small pickles and put over 
night in brine strong enough to float an egg. To each quart vinegar 
allow 1 pound brown sugar, 1 ounce each of mustard seed, celery seed, 
whole cloves, whole peppers, cassia buds, whole mace, and a few bay 
leaves. Heat vinegar and spices to boiling point. Drain pickles, scald 
in vinegar, then put in jars or crocks. Boil vinegar 20 minutes longer 
and pour while hot over pickles. When cold, cover and tie a white 
cloth over top. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 
Slice 1 peck tomatoes, 4 large onions, 4 red peppers ; sprinkle with 
24 cupful salt and let stand over night. Next morning cook until soft, 



182 THE FLOWER CITY COOK BOOK 

then mash through a colander. Add 1 tablespoonful ground mace, \y 2 
tablespoonfuls ground mustard and 2 tablespoon fuls celery seed tied 
in a bag. Cook slowly 3 hours, stirring frequently, then add Y\ cupful 
sugar, 1 cupful vinegar and boil 1 hour longer. If desired, add more 
seasoning. Fill bottles and seal while hot. 

PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES. 
Wash and cut in slices 1 peck green tomatoes ; peel and cut in 
slices 6 large onions. Sprinkle with a scant teacupful salt and let 
stand over night. Next morning drain thoroughly and scald in 1 quart 
vinegar and 2 quarts water. Again drain, then put in a crock. Boil 
for 10 minutes 2 quarts vinegar, 2 pounds sugar, }4 pound mustard 
seed, 1 tablespoonful whole cloves and 1 tablespoonful whole cinna- 
mon, tied in a bag; 1 tablespoonful each of ground ginger and mace, 
Y-2. teaspoonful cayenne pepper, and pour hot over tomatoes. When 
cold, cover and tie a white cloth over top. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Page 
Almonds, How to 

Blanch 166 

Almonds, Salted 164 

Ambrosia 6 

Apples, Baked 6 

Apples, Fried 76 

Apples, Jellied 6 

Apple Sauce 6 

Apple Snow 115 

Apple Tapioca Ill 

Artichokes, Boiled ... 76 
Artichokes on Lettuce 

Leaves 97 

Asparagus Tips, Canned 77 

Asparagus, Stewed ... 77 

Asparagus on Toast . . 77 

Baked Alaska 125 

Balls, Bread 41 

Balls, Cheese ..... 27-98 

Balls, Codfish 54 

Balls, Cracker 41 

Balls, Egg 41 

Balls, Marrow 41 

Balls, Matzo 41 

Balls, Meat 41-62 

Balls, Potato 85 

Balls, Snow 143 

Bar Ie Due ! . 172 

Beans, Canned 168 

Beans, Lima 77 

Beans, Lima, Sweet 

Sour 77 

Reans, String 77 

Beans, String, Sweet 

Sour 78 

Beef, Brisket of, with 

Sauerkraut 60 

Beef, Boiled Brisket of 60 
Beef, Corned, and 

Cabbage 61 

Beef, to Corn 67 

Beef Croquettes 60 

Beef, Fillet of, with 

Mushroom Sauce . . 62 
Beef, Stewed Fillet of . 60 
Beef, Fricassee of Dried 43 

Beef Juice 33 

Beef Loaf 60 

Beef, Roast, with 

Yorkshire Pudding . 64 

Reef Tea 33 

Reefsteak, Broiled . . . ! 59 
Beefsteak en Casserole . 59 
Reefsteak and Onions . 59 
Reefsteak, Pan-broiled . 59 

Reets, Roiled 77 

Beets, Pickled 179 

Riscuits, Raking Powder 13 

Biscuits, Beaten 9 

Riscuits, Cheese 13 

Risque Glace 119 

Rlanc Mange, Chocolate 116 

Bouillon 33 

Roulettes 78 

Roulettes, Sweet Potato 78 
Rread, Roston Rrown . 9 
Rread, Entire Wheat . . 9 
Bread. Ginger, Grand- 
mother's 150 

Bread, Gluten 10 

Bread, Graham 10 

Bread, Milk 10 



Page 
Bread, Points to be 

Remembered 9 

Rread, Potato Water . . 10 

Bread Rye 10 

Bread Sticks . 10 

Brains, Fried 59 

Brains, Sweet and Sour . 59 
Rrine, to make a . . . . 179 

Broth, Mutton 34 

Brown Retty \ 106 

Rrussels Sprouts .... 78 

Rundt 137 

Bundt, Chinese 137 

Butter, Red Tomato . . 176 
Butter Scotch 164 

Cabbage au Gratin ... 78 

Cabbage, Red 78 

Cabbage, Scalloped ... 78 
Cabbage, Stewed .... 79 

Cafe Parfait 121 

Cake, Angel 148 

Cake, Chocolate with 

Custard Filling . 148-149 
Cake, Chocolate Layer . 148 
Cake, Chocolate Sponge 152 

Cake, Cocoa 149 

Cake, Cocoa Sponge . . 152 

Cake, Cocoanut 149 

Cake, Coffee 149 

Cake, Cup 149 

Cake, Devil's Food . . . 150 
Cake, Devil's Food with 

Walnut Filling .... 150 
Cakes, Directions for 

making 147 

Cake, Eight- Egg Sponge 152 

Cake, Fig 150 

Cake, Golden 150 

Cake, Grandmother's 

Ginger Bread .... 150 
Cake, Harlequin . . 150-151 
Cake, Hickory Nut ... 151 
Cake, Hot Water 

Sponge 153 

Cake, Loaf 151 

Cake, Old-Fashioned 

_ Bread 137 

Cake, One-Egg 151 

Cake, Orange .... 151-152 

Cake, Pound 152 

Cake, Seed 137 

Cake, Silver 152 

Cake, Snow 153 

Cake, Sponge 152 

Cake, Sponge Lemon 

, Roll 153 

Cake, Ten-Egg Sponge . 153 

Cake, Sunshine 153 

Cake, Viola's Cocoanut 149 

Cake, Walnut 153 

Cake, Wedding Fruit . . 154 

Cake, White 154 

Cake, White Roval ... 154 
Cake, White, with Choco- 
late Cream Filling . 154 
Cakes, Anise Seed .... 158 
Cakes, Chocolate .... 158 
Cakes, Corn Meal 

Griddle 13 

Cakes, Flannel 13 

Cakes, Individual 

Sponge 153 



Page 
Cakes, Old-Fashioned 

Buckwheat 13 

Cakes, To Mix Angel, 
Sunshine and Other 

Sponge 147-148 

Cakes, To Mix Butter . 148 
Calf's Feet Stew with 

Meat Balls 61 

Calf's Heart 61 

Calf's Liver, Braised . . 61 
Calf's Liver and Bacon 61 
Calf's Liver and Onions 61 

Canapes 27 

Canape, Anchovy . . . 27 
Canapes, Cheese ....'. 27 
Canape Lorenzo . . . . . 28 
Canapes, Lobster .... 27 
Canapes, Olive and 

Caper 28 

Candied Grape Fruit 

Rind leg 

Candied Pop Corn ..." 166 
Candy, Cocoanut ... 164 
Candy, Maple Cream . . 164 

Candy, Molasses 164 

Candy, Seafoam 164 

Canning, Directions for 168 
Cantaloupes and Musk- 
melons, How to Pre- 

_ Pare 6 

Capon, Boiled 70 

Capon, Roast 72 

Caramels, French . . ! ! 165 
Carrots with Butter ... 79 
Carrots with Cream 

Sauce 79 

Carrots and Peas .... 79 
Carrots and Peas, Sweet 

and Sour 79 

Casserole of Rice and 

Meat or Chicken . . 68 

Catsup, Tomato 181 

Cauliflower au Gratin .' 79 
Cauliflower with Cream 

_ Sauce 80 

Caviare with Rolled 

Sandwiches ... 30 

£ e } er y _ . so 

Celery Root 80 

Celery Root on Lettuce 

Leaves 98 

Celery, Stewed 80 

Celery Timbales ..... 80 

Cereals, How to Cook . 5 

Charlotte, Apple 135 

Charlotte, Apple 115 

Charlotte, Hungarian 

Noodle 136 

Charlotte, Matzo .... 135 

Charlotte, Noodle .... 136 

Charlotte, Raspberry . . 115 

Charlotte Russe 115 

Charlotte Russe, Straw- 

_, berry . 115 

Cheese, Albany 27 

Cheese Balls 27 

Cheese Balls 98 

Cheese Canapes 27 

Cheese Fondue 44 

Cheese Pie (Kuchen) . 139 

Cherries, Canned .. . . 168 

Cherries. Pickled .... 177 

Cherries, Spiced 177 

Chestnut Puree 81 



184 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX— Continued 



Page 
Chestnuts and Prunes . 80 
Chestnuts and Raisins . 80 
Chicken a la Hungarian 70 
Chicken a la King ... 44 
Chicken a la Mikado . . 47 

Chicken Broiled 70 

Chicken, Broiled Spring, 

How to Serve .... 72 
Chicken en Casserole . . 71 
Chicken, Creamed, on 

Toast 68 

Chicken Fricassee ... 70 
Chicken Fried, with 

Cream Sauce 70 

Chicken in Aspic .... 71 

Chicken Patties 49 

Chicken Pie 71 

Chicken, Roast 72 

Chicken, Smothered 

Spring 72 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 116 

Chocolate 22 

Chocolate, Iced 22 

Clam Chowder 34 

Clams, Creamed 43 

Clams, Little Neck ... 29 

Clams, Steamed 43 

Claret Cup 24 

Cocoa 22 

Cocktail, East Indian . . 23 

Cocktail, Jersey 23 

Cocktail, Little Neck 

Clam 28 

Cocktail, Lobster .... 28 

Cocktail, Oyster 28 

Codfish Bajls 54 

Codfish, Salt, Creamed . 54 

Coffee 22 

Coffee, Iced 22 

Cold Slaw 99 

Cold Slaw with Cream 

Dressing 99 

Conserve, Cherry .... 172 
Conserve, Gooseberry . . 172 

Conserve, Grape 172 

Conserve, Prune 172 

Conserve, Raspberry . . 172 
Conserve, Strawberry . . 173 

Consomme 34 

Cookies, Almond 158 

Cookies, Almond Butter 158 

Cookies, Butter 158 

Cookies, Caraway Seed . 159 
Cookies, Chocolate ... 159 

Cookies, Date 1 59 

Cookies, English Butter 158 

Cookies, Fruit 159 

Cookies, Oatmeal .... 159 

Cookies, Orange 160 

Cookies, Poppy Seed . . 160 

Cookies, Royal 160 

Cookies, Soft Molasses . 160 

Cookies, Sugar 160 

Cookies, Thin Rich ... 160 
Cordial, Blackberry ... 23 
Cordial, Raspberry ... 23 
Corn and Tomatoes, 

Baked 81 

Corned Beef and Cab- 
bage 61 

Corn Boiled in the 

Husks . 81 

Corn Boiled on the Cob 81 

Corn, Canned 81 

Corn Fritters SI 

Corn Oysters 81 

Corn Pudding a la 

Maryland 82 

Corn Relish 179 

Cornstarch 5 



Page 
Coup Aux Marrons . . - 121 
Crabapples, Pickled ... 177 
Crabapples, Spiced . . . 177 

Crabs, Deviled 43 

Crabs, Fried Soft Shell . 43 
Crab Meat a la Dewey . 43 
Crab a la Ravigote ... 44 

Cranberry Jelly 7 

Cranberry Sauce .... 6 
Cream, Apricot Bavarian 119 
Cream, Chocolate 

Bavarian 119 

Cream, Coffee Bavarian 119 
Cream, Peach Bavarian 119 
Cream, Pineapple 

Bavarian 119 

Cream, Raspberry 

Bavarian 119 

Cream, Strawberry 

Bavarian 120 

Cream, Vanilla 

Bavarian 120 

Cream Horns 136 

Cream, Lemon 120 

Cream, Orange 120 

Cream, Vienna 121 

Cream, Wine 121 

Crimsel, Matzo 136 

Croquettes, Beef 60 

Croquettes, Chicken ... 44 
Croquettes, Potato ... 85 
Croquettes, Potato, Sweet 85 
Croquettes, Salmon ... 44 

Croutons, Fried 41 

Croutons in the Oven . 42 

Crullers 141 

Crullers, French 141 

Crumpets 11 

Cucumber Boats .... 99 
Cucumbers, Creamed, on 

Toast 82 

Cucumbers, Fried .... 82 
Cucumbers, Large 

Yellow, (Pickled) . . 179 

Custard, Baked 116 

Custard, Boiled 116 

Custard, Caramel .... 1 1 6 

Custard, Cup 116 

Custard, Strawberry . . 116 

Cutlets, Lobster 44 

Cutlets, Veal 67 

Dates, Cream 165 

Dates, Stuffed 165 

Dessert, Fruit 121 

Dough, Kuchen 138 

Doughnuts 141 

Doughnuts, Raised ... 138 

Dressing, Boiled 103 

Dressing, Bread 75 

Dressing, Chestnut ... 75 
Dressing for Creamed 

Chicken Salad .... 103 
Dressing for Fruit Salad 7 
Dressing, French .... 103 

Dressing, Liver 75 

Dressing, Mayonnaise . 103 
Dressing, Boiled 

Mayonnaise 104 

Dressing, Cream 

Mayonnaise 104 

Dressing, Green 

Mayonnaise 104 

Dressing, Oyster 75 

Dressing, Sage 75 

Dressing, Sour Cream . 104 
Dried Beef, Fricassee of 43 

Duck, Roast 73 

Duck, Wild, Pot Roast 73 



Page 

Dumplings 42 

Dumplings, Baked Apple 130 
Dumplings, Egg, for 

Soup 42 

Eclairs, Chocolate .... 161 

Egg Balls 41 

Eggs with Caviare ... 28 

Eggs, with Cheese .... 17 

Eggs, Creamed 17 

Eggs, Creamed, with 

Mushrooms 17 

Eggs, Deviled 17 

Eggs, Deviled 28 

Egg Flip 26 

Eggs and Ham, Fried . 19 

Eggs, "Hard-boiled" . . 19 

Eggs, How to Preserve . 17 

Eggs, a la Martin .... 17 

Eggs, a la Mode 18 

Egg Nog 25 

Egg Plant, Baked .... 82 

Egg Plant, Fried .... 82 

Eggs, Poached 19 

Eggs in Ramekins ... 18 

Eggs and Red Peppers . 18 

Eggs with Sardines ... 18 

Eggs, Scalloped 19 

Eggs, Scrambled 19 

Eggs, Shirred 19 

Eggs, "Soft-boiled" ... 20 
Eggs with Spanish 

Peppers 19 

Eggs, Stuffed .... 20, 32 

Egg Timbales 18 

Ein Lauf 42 

Farina 5 

Fat, to Clarify 67 

Filling, Cream, for 

Strudel or Pie ... 156 

Filling, Fruit 156 

Filling, Lemon 156 

Filling, Marshmallow . . 156 

Filling, Nut 156 

Filling, Orange 157 

Filling, Pistachio .... 157 
Fire, How to Build ... 1 
Fish, Baked, with 

Tomato Sauce .... 55 
Fish a la Brunswick . . 54 

Fish, Cuban 54 

Fish, Fried 54 

Fish, Lemon Stewed . . 55 

Fish, "Sharfe" 55 

Fish, Sweet and Sour . . 55 
Fish, Sweet and Sour, with 

Brown Sauce 56 

Fish a la Wine 56 

Fowl, Boiled 70 

French Sweets 165 

Fricassee, Goose 71 

Fritters, Apple 142 

Fritter Batter . . . 141-142 

Fritters, Bread 142 

Fritters, Corn 81 

Fritters, Fruit 142 

Fritters, Matzo 136 

Fritters, Oyster Plant . 84 
Fritters, Parsnip .... 84 
Fritters, Potato ..... 142 

Fritters, Queen 142 

Frogs' Legs, Fried ... 44 

Frosting, Boiled 155 

Frosting, Caramel ... 155 
Frosting, Chocolate ... 155 
Frosting, Cocoanut ... 155 
Frosting, Confectioners' 155 
Frosting, Maple Sugar 155 
Frosting, Marshmallow . 155 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX— Continue J 



185 



Page 

Frosting, Milk 156 

Frosting, Mocha 156 

Frosting, Orange .... 156 

Frosting, Pistachio . . . 156 

Frosting, Plain 156 

Fruit Dessert 121 

Fruit Jelly 12] 

Fruit Salad with Wine- 
Dressing 7 

Fudge, Chocolate .... 165 

Fudge, Cocoa 165 

Gems, Graham 14 

Glace Nuts or Fruit . . 165 

Goose Cracklings .... 73 

Goose, Fricassee 71 

Goose Liver, Fried ... 73 
Goose Meat Preserved 

in Fat 73 

Goose, Pot Roast Breast 

and Legs of 74 

Goose, Roast 73 

Ginger Bread, 

Grandmother's .... 150 

Ginger Snaps 161 

Glacia Dore 124 

Graham Gems 14 

Grape Fruit or Oranges 7 
Grape Fruit Rind, 

Candied 166 

Grape Juice 24 

Grape Juice a la 

Cleveland 24 

Grapes, Spiced 177 

Griddle Cakes, Bread . . 13 
Griddle Cakes, 

Corn Meal 13 

Griddle Cakes, Rice . . 14 
Griddle Cakes, Sour 

Milk 14 

Gravy 65 

Gulash 62 

Haddock or Trout, 

Boiled 56 

Halibut, Boiled, with 

Butter Sauce 56 

Halibut or Trout, 

Fried 57 

Ham Baked 62 

Ham, Boiled 63 

Ham, Broiled 63 

Ham and Eggs, Fried . 19 

Hamburg Steaks .... 63 

Hash, Beef 68 

Hash, Corned Beef ... 68 

Hermits 161 

Hominy, Boiled 5 

Hominy, Fried 5 

Honey, Quince 176 

Horse-radish 29 

Household Hints .... 2-4 

Household Rules .... 1 

Huckleberries, Canned . 168 



Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 
Apricot 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 



Almond 
Banana . 
Caramel . 

Chocolate 

Maple 

Neapolitan 

Nougat 
Orange . 

Peach or 



Pineapple 
Raspberry 
Strawberry 
Tutti-Frutti 



125 
125 
125 
125 
125 
125 
126 
126 

126 
126 
126 
126 
126 



Page 

Ice Cream, Vanilla . . . 126 
Ice Cream, French 

Vanilla 127 

Ice Creams, Sherbets, 

etc., to Freeze . . . 124 

Ice, Lemon 127 

Ice, Orange 127 

Jam, Black Currant ... 173 

Jam, Raspberry 173 

Jam, Strawberry 173 

Jelly, Apple 170 

jelly Bag, how to make 170 

Jelly, lilaekberry .... 171 
Telly, Blackberry and 

Red Currant 171 

Jelly, Crabapple 171 

Jelly, Cranberry 7 

Jelly, Currant 171 

Jelly, Currant and Red 

Raspberry 171 

Jelly, Damson Plum and 

Crabapple 171 

Jelly, Fruit 121 

Jelly, Grape 171 

Jelly, Orange 122 

jelly, Quince 171 

Telly, Red Raspberry . . 171 

jelly, Rules for Making . 170 

Telly, served in Cake . . 117 

Jelly, Wine 122 

Jumbles 161 

Kisses, Hickory Nut . . 161 

Kohlrabi 82 

Kohlrabi with Cream 

Sauce 83 

Kohlrabi (Hungarian) . 83 

Kuchen, Apple 138 

Kuchen, Cheese 139 

Kuchen, Cherry 138 

Kuchen, Cinnamon 

(Cake) 139 

Kuchen, Quick Coffee . . 139 

Kuchen, Quick Fruit . . 139 

Kuchen, Huckleberry . . 139 

Kuchen, Leb 161 

Kuchen, Peach 139 

Kuchen, Prune 139 

Kuchen, Fresh Straw- 
berry 138 

Lady Fingers 161 

Lamb Chops, Broiled . . 62 

Lamb, Roast 65 

Lamb or Veal Chops, 

Pan Broiled 62 

Lemonade 24 

Lemonade, Apollinaris . 24 

Lemonade for 75 people- 24 

Lemonade, Ginger Ale . 25 
Lemon Butter for 

Tartlets 134 

Little Pigs in Blankets . 49 

Liver, Calf's, and Bacon 61 

Liver, Calf's, Braised . . 61 

Liver, Calf's, and Onions 61 

Lobster, Baked Live . . 45 
Lobsters, to Boil and 

Open 45 

Lobster, Broiled Live . . 45 

Lobster Cutlets 44 

Lobster, Deviled 45 

Lobster Farci 46 

Lobster, Fried 46 

Lobster a la Newburg . 46 
Lobster or Salmon 

Timbales 46 



Page 

Macaroni with Cheese . 83 
Macaroni with Cream 

Sauce 83 

Macaroni with Tomato 

Sauce 83 

Macaroons, Almond . . . 162 

Macaroons, Chocolate . 162 

Macaroons, Cocoanut . . 162 

Macaroons, Date 162 

Macaroons, Matzo .... 162 

Macaroons, Nut 163 

Mackerel, Salt, broiled . 56 

Mackerel, Salt, boiled . 56 

Maple Parfait 127 

Marmalade, Orange ... 173 

Marmalade, Peach .... 174 

Marmalade, Pineapple . 174 

Marmalade, Plum .... 174 

Marmalade, Quince ... 174 

Marguerites 162 

Marshmallow Crackers . 101 

Marshmallows, Toasted . 166 

Mayonnaise, Green ... 104 

Meat Balls 33 

Meat Balls 62 

Meat Pie 68 

Meat Pie with Potato 

Crust 69 

Meat, Scalloped 69 

Meringue 117 

Mince Meat 133 

Minced Meat on Toast . 69 

Mint Julep 24 

Mousse, Chocolate .. . . 122 

Mousse, Coffee 122 

Mousse, Fruit 122 

Mousse, Macaroon . . . 122 

Mousse, Maple 123 

Mousse, Marshmallow . 123 

Mousse, Orange 123 

Mousse, Raspberry ... 123 

Mousse, Strawberry . . . 123 

Muffins, English 11 

Muffins or Gems .... 15 

Muffins, Sweet 15 

Mutton, Boiled Leg of . 60 

Mutton, Roast 65 

Mushrooms, Creamed . . 47 
Mushrooms, Creamed, in 

Ramekins 47 

Mushrooms, with Broiled 

Sweetbreads 47 

Mushrooms, Sauted ... 47 

Mustard, How to Mix . 29 

Noodles 42 

Noodles, Broad 83 

Noodles, Dampf 138 

Nuts or Fruits, Glace . 165 

Oatmeal 5 

Oatmeal, Fried 5 

Oatmeal Gruel 5 

Omelet, Chicken 20 

Omelet, Cheese 20 

Omelet, Ham 20 

Omelet, Individual 

French 21 

Omelet, Jelly 21 

Omelet with Mushrooms 21 

Omelet, Oyster 21 

Omelet, Plain 21 

Omelet with Peas .... 21 

Omelet, Rum 21 

Omelet Souffle 21 

Onions, Boiled, with 

Cream Sauce .... 84 

Onions, French Fried . . 84 

Onions, Fried Whole . . 84 

Onions, Pickled 180 



186 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX— Continued 



Page 

Orangeade 25 

Orange Glace 124 

Oyster Plant Fritters . . 84 

Oyster Plant, Stewed . . 84 

Oysters, Broiled S3 

Oysters, Celeried .... 48 

Oysters, Creamed .... 53 

Oysters, Fried 48 

Oysters on Half Shell . 29 
Oysters and Macaroni . 48 
Oysters and Mush- 
rooms 47 

Oysters a la Newburg . 48 

Oysters, Panned 48 

Oyster Patties 49 

Oyster Pie 49 

Oysters a la Poulette . . 49 

Oysters, Scalloped ... 48 

Oyster Stew 39 

Oyster Stew without 

Milk 40 

Pancakes, German .... 14 

Pancakes, Potato .... 15 

Parfait, Cafe 121 

Parfait, Maple 127 

Parsnips, Fried 84 

Parsnip Fritters .... 84 

Parsnips, Stewed .... 84 

Paste, Plain 130 

Paste, Puff 130 

Paste, Rich Pie 130 

Pate De Foie Gras ... 29 

Patties, Chicken 49 

Patties, Oyster 49 

Patties, Sweetbread ... 49 

Patty Shells 48 

Peaches, Brandied .... 177 

Peaches, Canned .... 168 

Peaches, Pickled 177 

Pears, Baked 7 

Pears, Canned 169 

Pears, Spiced 178 

Pea Timbales 85 

Peas, Canned 84 

Peas, Green 85 

Penoche 166 

Penoche, Maple 166 

Peppers, Green, Stuffed . 32 

Peppers, Red, Pickled . . 181 
Pickles for Immediate 

Use 181 

Pickles, Dill 180 

Pickles, Mustard 180 

Pickles, Oil 181 

Pickles, Sweet Vinegar . 181 

Piccalilli 181 

Pie, Apple 131 

Pie, Cheese 131 

Pie, Cherry 131 

Pie, Chicken 71 

Pie, Chocolate 131 

Pie, Cocoanut 131 

Pie, Cranberry 131 

Pie, Currant 132 

Pie, Custard 131 

Pie, Lemon Custard . . . 132 

Pie, Lemon 132 

Pie, Australian Lemon . 132 

Pie, Meat 68 

Pie, Meat, with 

Potato Crust 69 

Pie, Mince 133 

Pie, Mock Mince .... 133 

Pie, Orange 133 

Pie, Oyster 49 

Pie, Pumpkin 133 

Pie, Sour Cream 133 

Pie, Squash 134 



Page 

Pie, Sweet Potato .... 134 

Pineapple 7 

Pineapples, Canned . . . 169 

Pineapple Glace 125 

Pineapple Whip 123 

Pop Corn, Candied ... 166 

Pop-Overs 15 

Pork and Beans 64 

Pork Chops 62 

Pork, Roast Leg of . . . 64 

Potatoes, Baked ..... 86 
Potatoes, Baked, with 

Cheese 86 

Potato Balls 85 

Potatoes, Boiled 86 

Potatoes, Boiled New . . 86 
Potatoes Boiled in their 

Skins 85 

Potato Cakes 85 

Potatoes in Cases .... 86 

Potatoes, Creamed .... 86 

Potato Croquettes .... 85 

Potatoes, Cuban Sweet . 89 

Potatoes, Fried 87 

Potatoes, French Fried . 87 

Potatoes, German Fried 87 

Potatoes, Glazed 87 

Potatoes au Gratin ... 85 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown 87 
Potatoes, Hashed Brown, 

in Oven 87 

Potatoes, Julienne .... 87 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise . . 87 

Potatoes, Mashed .... 88 

Potatoes a la Piquant . 87 

Potatoes, Riced 88 

Potatoes Roasted with 

Meat 86 

Potatoes, Scalloped ... 88 

Potato Souffle 86 

Potatoes, Spanish .... 88 

Potatoes, Sweet, Baked . 88 

Potatoes, Sweet, Boiled . 89 
Potatoes, Sweet, 

Croquettes 85 

Potatoes, Sweet, Cuban . 89 

Potatoes, Sweet, Fried . 89 
Potatoes, Sweet, 

Southern Style .... 88 
Pot Roast with Brown or 

Horse-radish Sauce . 63 

Preserves, Apple Ginger 174 

Preserves, Grape .... 174 

Preserves, Peach .... 174 

Preserves, Pear 175 

Preserves, Pear Ginger . 174 

Preserves, Prune .... 175 
Preserves, Prune or 

Plum . 175 

Preserves, Quince and 

Apple 175 

Preserves, Sour Cherry . 175 

Preserves, Strawberry . 175 

Preserves, Tomato .... 176 
Preserved Watermelon 

Rind or Citron .... 176 

Prunes, Pickled 178 

Prunes, Stewed 7 

Prunes, Stuffed 166 

Prune Whip 109 

Pudding, Almond .... 144 

Pudding, Apple 105 

Pudding, Apple 

Cracker 107 

Pudding, Bird's Nest . . 105 

Pudding, Bread 105 

Pudding, Bread and 

Butter 105 

Pudding, Brown Betty . 106 

Pudding, Cabinet .... 106 



Page 

Pudding, Chocolate ... 106 
Puddings, Chocolate 

Individual 107 

Pudding, Chocolate 

Plum 108 

Pudding, Chocolate, 

Steamed 107 

Pudding Cocoanut ... 116 

Pudding, Coffee 121 

Pudding, Cornstarch . . 115 

Pudding, Cottage .... 107 

Pudding, Cracker .... 107 

Pudding, Creamy Rice . 109 

Pudding, Date 107 

Pudding, Delmonico 116-117 

Pudding, English Plum . 108 

Pudding, Farina 108 

Pudding, Farina 

Chocolate 108 

Pudding, Fig 108 

Pudding, Frozen Rice . 123 
Pudding, Individual 

Raisin 109 

Pudding, Lemon 108 

Pudding, Macaroon ... 117 
Pudding, Apple 

Macaroon 117 

Pudding, Maraschino . . 122 

Pudding, Nesselrode . . 127 

Pudding, Orange .... 108 

Pudding, Orange .... 118 

Pudding, Peach 117 

Pudding, Pineapple ... 118 
Pudding, Poor Man's 

Rice 109 

Puddings, Queen of . . . 109 

Pudding, Sago 110 

Pudding, Snow 118 

Pudding, Spanish .... 110 
Pudding, Steamed 

Prune 109 

Pudding, Strawberry . . 118 
Pudding, Iced Straw- 
berry 127 

Pudding, Suet 110 

Pudding, Tapioca .... 110 

Pudding, Apple Tapioca 111 

Pudding, Tortoni .... 128 

Pudding, Yorkshire ... 64 

Puffs, Cream 141 

Puffs, Raspberry or 

Strawberry 136 

Pumpkin a la Hun- 
garian 89 

Punch, California 

Frozen 127 

Punch, Canton Ginger . 25 

Punch, Champagne ... 25 

Punch, Currant 25 

Punch, Frozen Milk ... 128 

Punch, Fruit 25 

Punch, Grape Juice ... 25 

Punch, Lalla Rookh ... 128 

Punch, Roman 128 

Puree, Chestnut 81 

Puree of Chestnut ... 118 

Quail on Toast 73 

Quinces, Canned 169 

Quince Honey 176 

Radishes, Black or 

White 89 

Radishes, Red 89 

Rarebit, Sardine 49 

Rarebit, Scotch 20 

Rarebit, Welsh 49 

Raspberries, Canned 

Black 169 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX— Continued 



187 



Page 
Raspberries, Canned 

Red 169 

Red Peppers, Pickled . 181 

Rhubarb, Canned .... 169 

Rice, Boiled 5 

Rissoles 69 

Rocks 163 

Rolls, French 11 

Rolls, Parker House . . 11 

Roll, Sponge Lemon . . 153 

Royal Scallop 69 

Salad, Artichoke 97 

Salad, Asparagus .... 97 
Salad, Asparagus and 

Cauliflower 97 

Salad, Green Bean ... 97 
Salad, Yellow Bean ... 97 

Salad, Beet 97 

Salad, Brain 97 

Salad, Cabbage 98 

Salad, Cauliflower .... 98 
Salad, Celery and 

Cabbage 98 

Salad, Celery 98 

Salad, Celery Root ... 98 
Salad, Cheese Ball ... 98 
Salad, Cheese and Olive 99 

Salad, Chicken 99 

Salad, Chiffonade .... 99 
Salad, Creamed Chicken 99 
Salad, Cucumber .... 100 
Salad in Cucumber 

Boats 99 

Salad, Egg 100 

Salad, Endive 100 

Salad, Fish ....... .100 

Salad, Grape Fruit ... 7 

Salad, Herring 28 

Salad, Lettuce 100 

Salad, Hearts of Let- 
tuce 100 

Salad, Lobster 101 

Salad, Macedoine .... 101 
Salad, Malaga Grape . . 101 
Salad, Marguerite .... 101 
Salad, Nut and Fruit . . 101 
Salad, Orange or 

Grape Fruit 101 

Salad, Pineapple and 

Celery 101 

Salad, Potato 102 

Salad, Spanish 102 

Salad, Stuffed Tomato . 102 
Salad, Tomato Jelly ... 102 

Salad, Veal 103 

Salad, Waldorf 103 

Salmon Loaf 46 

Sandwiches, Almond . . 29 
Sandwiches, Anchovy . . 29 
Sandwiches, Appetit Sild 30 
Sandwiches, Celery ... 30 
Sandwiches, Cheese ... 30 
Sandwiches, Chopped 

Chicken 30 

Sandwiches, Chopped 

Ham 30 

Sandwiches, Club .... 30 
Sandwiches, Cream 

Cheese 31 

Sandwiches, Cream Cheese 

and Anchovy Paste . 31 
Sandwiches, Cream Cheese 

and Olive 31 

Sandwiches, Cream Cheese 

and Pepper 31 

Sandwiches, Cream Cheese 

and Walnut 31 

Sandwiches, Cucumber . 31 
Sandwiches, Delmonico . 31 



Page 
Sandwiches, Egg and 

Cucumber 31 

Sandwiches, Jelly .... 31 
Sandwiches, Lettuce ... 32 
Sandwiches, Olive and 

Anchovy Paste .... 32 
Sandwiches, Sardine ... 32 
Sandwiches, Sliced 

Chicken 30 

Sandwiches, Sliced Ham 31 
Sandwiches, Swiss 

Cheese 30 

Sandwiches, Tongue . . 32 
Sandwiches, Whipped 

Cream Chicken ... 30 
Salmon Loaf ....... 46 

Salt Mackerel, Boiled . . 56 
Salt Mackerel, Broiled . 56 

Saratoga Chips 88 

Sardines and Peas 

on Toast 53 

Sauce 66 

Sauce, Anchovy 92 

Sauce, Apple 6 

Sauce for Asparagus 

or Cauliflower ... 95 

Sauce, Bearnaise 92 

Sauce, Bordelaise .... 92 

Sauce, Brandy 112 

Sauce, Brown 92 

Sauce, Caper 61 

Sauce, Caper 92 

Sauce, Caramel 112 

Sauce, Chili 179 

Sauce, Chocolate .... 112 
Sauce, Cranberry .... 6 

Sauce, Cream 92 

Sauce, Cream 112 

Sauce, Whipped 

Cream 96 

Sauce, Whipped 

Cream 112 

Sauce, Cucumber .... 92 
Sauce, Currant Jelly . . 92 

Sauce, Curry 92 

Sauce, Custard 112 

Sauce, Drawn Butter . 93 

Sauce, Egg 93 

Sauce, Foamy 113 

Sauce, Fruit 113 

Sauce, Gooseberry .... 7 

Sauce, Hard 113 

Sauce, "Hard-Boiled" 

Egg 93 

Sauce, Hollandaise ... 93 
Sauce, Horse-radish . . 93-94 

Sauce, Jelly 113 

Sauce, Lemon 113 

Sauce, Lobster 94 

Sauce, Maitre D'Hotel . 94 

Sauce, Mint 94 

Sauce, Mocha 113 

Sauce, Brown 

Mushroom 94 

Sauce, Mushroom .... 94 
Sauce, White 

Mushroom 94 

Sauce, Mustard 94 

Sauce, Orange 113 

Sauce, Oyster 94 

Sauce, Parsley 95 

Sauce, Piquante 95 

Sauce, Port Wine ... 95 
Sauce, Raspberry Hard . 113 

Sauce, Rhubarb 8 

Sauce, Shrimp 95 

Sauce, Spanish 95 

Sauce, Strawberry ... 114 
Sauce, Strawberry Hard 113 
Sauce, Sweet and Sour 95 



Page 

Sauce, Tartare 95 

Sauce, Tomato 18 

Sauce, Tomato 96 

Sauce, Cream Tomato . 96 

Sauce, Vanilla 114 

Sauce, Vinaigrette ... 96 

Sauce, Thin White ... 96 

Sauce, Thick White ... 96 

Sauce, Wine 114 

Sauce, White Wine ... 114 
Sausage, Home-made 

Breakfast 65 

Sausage, Fried Bologna 65 

Sausage, Liver 65 

Sausage, Pork 65 

Sausage, Boiled Smoked 65 

Sauterne Cup 24 

Scallops, Fried 50 

Scalloped Meat 69 

Schnecken 140 

Scones 15 

Scotch Rarebit 20 

Scotch Woodcock .... 20 

Shad, Baked 56, 57 

Shad Roe, Boiled .... 50 

Shad Roe, Creamed ... 50 

Shad Roe, Fried .... 50 

Sherbet, Cranberry . . . 128 

Sherbet, Orange 128 

Sherbet, Pineapple . . . 128 

Sherbet, Raspberry . . . 128 

Sherbet, Strawberry . . . 129 

Sherbet, White Velvet . 129 

Shortcake, Peach .... 143 

Shortcake, Raspberry . . 143 
Shortcake, 

Strawberry . . . 142-143 

Smelts, Broiled 57 

Smelts, Fried 57 

Snow Balls 143 

Souffle, California .... 106 

Souffle, Cheese 50 

Souffle, Chicken 

or Meat 50 

Souffle, Chocolate .... 106 

Souffle, Omelet 21 

Souffle, Potato 86 

Souffle, Strawberry . . . 110 

Souffle, Sweetbread ... 51 

Soup, Barley or Rice . 34 

Soup, Bean 34 

Soup, Black Bean .... 34 

Soup, Brown Flour ... 38 

Soup, Chicken 35 

Soup, Clam 38 

Soup, Cream of 

Asparagus 38 

Soup, Cream of Celery . 38 

Soup, Cream of Corn . . 38 
Soup, Cream of 

Mushroom 39 

Soup, Cream of Pea . . 39 

Soup, Cream of Potato . 39 

Soup, Cream of Tomato 39 

Soup, Dried Pea 36 

Souo from left over 

Poultry or Meat ... 36 

Soup, Green Kern .... 35 

Soup, Julienne 35 

Soup, Lentil or Linsen . 35 

Soup, Mock Turtle ... 36 

Soup, Mulligatawny ... 36 

Soup, Noodle 36 

Soup, Ox-Tail 36 

Soup, Split Pea 36 

Soup Stock 33 

Soup Stock, White ... 33 
Soup, Tomato, with 

Meat Balls 37 

Soup, Vegetable 37 

Soup, Wine 39 



188 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX— Continued 



Page 

Spaghetti with Cheese . 89 
Spaghetti with 

Tomatoes 89 

Spatzen 90 

Spinach 90 

Squabs, Broiled on 

Toast 72 

Squabs, Potted 72 

Squash, Baked Winter . 90 

Squash, Boiled Summer . 90 

Squash, Fried Summer . 90 

Steak, Planked 63 

Stew, Brunswick .... 65 

Stew, Calf's Feet .... 61 

Stew, Indian Curry ... 66 

Stew, Irish 66 

Stew, Oyster 39-40 

Stew, Scallop 40 

Stew, Walnut 69 

Sticks, Bread 10 

Sticks, Poppy Seed ... 11 

Strawberries, Canned . . 169 
Strawberries, How to 

Serve 8 

Strudel, Apple 134 

Succotash 82 

Sweets, French 165 

Sweetbreads 51 

Sweetbreads with As- 
paragus Tips 51 

Sweetbread, Broiled ... 51 
Sweetbreads, Broiled, 

and Mushrooms ... 47 
Sweetbread, Creamed . . 51 
Sweetbread, Fried .... 51 
Sweetbreads, Mock ... 51 
Sweetbread Patties ... 49 
Sweet Potatoes, Baked . 88 
Sweet Potatoes, Boiled 89 
Sweet Potato Croquettes 85 
Sweet Potatoes, Cuban . 89 
Sweet Potatoes, Fried . 89 
Sweet Potatoes, South- 
ern Style 88 

Taffy, Cream 166 

Tapioca, Apple Ill 

Tartlets, Almond .... 134 

Tartlets, Cheese 134 

Tarts, Cranberry .... 134 

Tartlets, Lemon 135 

Tartlets, Lemon Butter 

for 134 



Page 
Tartlets, Strawberry or 

Raspberry 135 

Tartlets, Whipped 

Cream 135 

Tea 22 

Tea, Beef 33 

Tea, Iced 23 

Tea, Russian 23 

Tenderloin, Broiled ... 68 

Timbales, Celery 80 

Timbales, Chicken .... 52 

Timbales, Egg is 

Timbales, Lobster or 

Salmon 46 

Timbales, Macaroni ... 52 

Timbales, Meat 52 

Timbales, Pea 85 

Toast, Anchovy 52 

Toast, Buttered 12 

Toast, Cream 12 

Toast, French 12 

Toast, Golden Egg 

Cream 20 

Toast, Ham 53 

Toast, Broiled 

Oysters on 53 

Toast, Creamed 

Oysters on 53 

Toast Points 12 

Toast, Sardines and 

Peas on 53 

Toast, Spanish 53 

Tom and Jerry 25 

Tomato Butter 176 

Tomatoes, Canned ... 169 
Tomatoes, Canned for 

Soup 169 

Tomatoes, Pickled 

Green 182 

Tomato Relish 32 

Tomatoes, Scalloped . . 91 

Tomatoes, Stewed .... 91 

Tomatoes, Stuffed .... 32 

Tomatoes, Stuffed .... 91 
Tomatoes Stuffed with 

Shrimps 50 

Tomatoes, Whole, with 

Mayonnaise Dressing 102 

Tongue, Boiled Beef's . 66 

Tongues, Stewed Calves' 66 
Tongue, Sweet and 

Sour 66 

Torte, Almond 144 



Page 

Torte, Brod 144 

Torte, Chocolate .... 144 

Torte, Chocolate 145 

Torte, Hazel Nut .... 145 

Torte, Hickory Nut ... 145 

Torte, Linzer 145 

Torte, Mandel 145 

Torte, Mocha 145 

Torte, Pecan ........ 146 

Torte, Walnut 146 

Trout, Boiled, with 

Mayonnaise Dressing 58 
Trout with Boiled 

.Dressing 58 

Turnips with Cream 

Sauce 91 

Turnips, Mashed .... 91 
Turnips, Mashed, and 

Potatoes 91 

Turkey, Gravy for ... 74 

Turkev, Roast 74 

Tutti-Frutti 176 

Twists, Individual .... 12 

Twist, Milk and Water 12 

Veal Cutlets 67 

Veal Loaf 60 

Veal, Roast Breast of . 64 
Vegetables, time table 

for cooking 76 

Venison, Roast 65 

Venison Steaks, to Broil 67 

Wafers, Walnut 163 

Waffles 15 

Waffles, German .... 16 

Waffles, Quick 16 

Walnuts, Cream 167 

Water, Barley 23 

Watermelon 8 

Watermelon Balls, Iced 8 

Weights and Measures . 1 
White Fish or Shad, 

Broiled 57 

White Fish or Shad, 

Planked 57 

Wine, Hot Glee 26 

Wreath (Krantz) .... 140 

Yorkshire Pudding ... 64 



Zwieback 



163 



AUG 5 1911 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



i*i 



