UC-NRLF 




B 2 TDb 575 




I . 

;HAJSIG. 



PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA, 



DEPARTMENT OF AGRjCULTURE 

(WOMEN'S INSTITUTES). 



BULLETIN No. 36. 



THE PREPARATION OF FOOD 



MISS ALICE RAVENHILL, 
Fellow of the Royal Sanitary Institute, etc., etc. 




THEGOVERNMENTOF 
THE PROVINCE OF BRlTISHCOLUdBW. 

PRINTED BY A. UTHORITY Of 
THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Of BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



VICTORIA, B. O. : 

Printed by WILLIAM H. CCLLIN, Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty. 

1911. 



PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA, 



DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

(WOMEN'S INSTITUTES). 



BULLETIN No. 36. 



THE PREPARATION OF FOOD 



MISS ALICE RAVENNILL, 
Fellow of the Royal Sanitary Institute, etc., etc. 




THE GOVERNMENT OF 
THE PROVINCE OF BRITISHCCLJNBIA. 



PRINTED BY A VTHORITY OF 
THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



VICTORIA, B. C. : 

Printed by WILLIAM H. CULLIN, Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty. 

1911. 



DEPARTMENT OK ACJUICULTUKK, 

VICTORIA, 15. C., November Ttli, 11H1. 
Tlic Honoiinible Price KHison, 

Minister of Af/ricultiire. 

SIR, I have tlie honour to .submit herewith Bulletin No. .">G, 
entitled " The Preparation of Food," compiled under the auspices of 
the Women's Institutes. 

I have the honour to be, 

Sir, 
Your obedient servant, 

WAF. K. SCOTT, 

tij Minixicr of .{(/ricnltnrc, 
Superintendent of Institutes. 



THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



" Preserve and treat food as you would your body," said Dr. Heujuniin 
Ward Richardson, " remembering that in time food will be your body." 

These words contain a truth too often overlooked. The daily routine of 
meal-times is so familiar that we rarely give a thought to any result of eating, 
except the mere satisfaction of hunger. The work of preparing and preserving 
food is so continuous that carelessness in its handling, monotony in its service, 
and slight neglect in its keeping creep in as a result of haste, fatigue, or 
indifference. 

REASONS FOR A STUDY OF THE SUBJECT. 

There are, however, forcible reasons why women should be as well 
informed on the right care of human food as has latterly been customary 
among men in connection with the right feeding of poultry and stock. All 
intelligent folk hold the faith that health of mind and body is desirable above 
all else. Now, experts assure us they are in possession of abundant evidence 
to prove that food has more to do with a good state of health than any other 
one thing; consequently, information on the subject of daily diet is now sought, 
and the value of reliable teaching is understood. 

In the first place, it is wise to inquire 

WHAT IS FOOD? 

Food may be described as anything which, when taken into the body, can 
be utilized 

(1.) To supply the warmth upon which life depends: 

(2.) To repair the daily wear and tear of the body, and, in childhood, to 
provide for growth : 

(3.) To manufacture the energy which is used in breathing, digesting, 
thinking, working, playing, or in any other bodily function or activity. 

Another bulletin will explain which foods are most valuable for each of 
these purposes, and why some foods suit one age or one season of the year 
better than do others. In these pages we can only consider the point referred 
to in the title viz., the preparation of food in the home. 

THE PREPARATION OF FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION. 

In reply to the question how men prepare their food, nine people out of 
ten would promptly reply, by cooking; and true enough the answer would be. 
Mankind is the only cooking animal in the world. 

But, as a matter of fact, there are various other methods of food- 
preparation besides the application of heat, which is what most people 
understand to be a cook's work. 

Animal food, for instance, must be prepared for killing; killed; dressed: 
chilled, if it has to be transported some distance, or otherwise preserved, and 
packed; displayed for sale in shop or market; conveyed to the purchaser's 
home; possibly salted, smoked, or pickled; certainly washed, before the time 
comes to cook it as food. 



(5 

Vegetable foods, also, must be gathered or dug. perhaps packed, displayed 
for sale, and transported to their destination before they are handled in the 
kitchen. 

Meanwhile, foodstuffs pass through many hands, not always of the 
cleanest: they may he exposed to burning heat, certainly to dust and dirt 
(the ingredients of which include the droppings of animals, men's spit, hairs, 
shreds of skin, pus from uncovered wounds, and other unsavoury substances). 
Furthermore, they are bruised by rough handling and bad packing; so that 
moulds and the germs which cause food to taint and decay can gain an 
entrance to the flesh of fish or meat, or to the pulp of fruit and vegetables; 
consequently, cleansing is a first and most important part of the cooking 
process. 

WORK FOR THE WOMEN'S INSTITUTES. 

More harm is wrought in this world by want of thought than from any 
other one cause. In the interests of health, such want of thought in con- 
nection with a nation's food must be firmly and intelligently checked. It is 
just the piece of work which could and should be undertaken locally by 
Women's Institutes. Through the co-operation of their members, the standard 
of cleanliness in markets and shops can be raised and the careful handling of 
foods be enforced. 

WHERE SUCH WORK HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED. 

It is a great credit to the women of Indianapolis and of Portland. U.S.A.. 
that, since learning these things, they have worked with so much perseverance 
and tact that the markets of their cities and the handling of their foodstuffs 
are now reported to be object-lessons to other places. 

THE PREPARATION OF FOOD IN THE KITCHEN. 

Even when food has reached the kitchen it undergoes many forms of 
preparation other than roasting, boiling, baking, or stewing. Meat, for instance, 
is minced, bread is "crumbed." eggs are beaten, cheese is grated, cream is 
whisked. Why? The answer to this question will be found among the follow- 
ing reasons why food is cooked. 

FOOD IS COOKED: 

(1.) To make it more palatable and attractive: 

(li. ) To increase its digestibility: 

(.'}.) To afford wholesome variety and to increase nutritive value: 

(4.) To economize heat and energy to the body: 

({">.) To postpone decay and to destroy parasites: 

((!.) To promote cleanliness: 

(7.) To economize expense: 

ItKASOX (1). TO MAKK FOOD MoRK 1'AI.ATAHLK AM) ATTRACTIVE. 

This reason is too obvious to call for much illustration. We have only 
to comiKire the taste of raw meat with that of a well-roasted joint, or of 
uncooked with well-fried fish. 

Consider, also, the improvement in the appearance of cold meat or of butter 
when garnished with parsley or fern; or the pleasant variety imparted to the 



familiar corn-starch mould if turned out iu a fresh shape or coloured with a 
few drops of cochineal or spinach given. The food is rendered more attractive, 
more palatable, and. last hut not least, more digestible. "To make the mouth 
water" should constitute a cook's ambition, for it is a preliminary to good 
digestion. Monotony in daily diet is a widespread source of dyspepsia. 

RKASON (2). FOOD is COOKED TO INCREASE ITS DICKSTMULITY. 

It is possibly a matter for surprise that this reason does not appear first 
on the list, for the changes brought about in well-cooked porridge or in a 
"floury" potato are. as we all know, necessary to their digestion. Hut. as a 
matter of fact, while exposure to heat is essential for all starchy foods, such 
as rice, flour, etc., flesh foods and fats are thereby liable to become, to a 
greater or less degree, indigestible, unless care he exercised and certain pre- 
cautions be observed. 

Nearly all the varied kinds of manipulation employed in the preparation 
of food materials have as their object to increase their digestibility. The 
majority may, indeed, be looked upon as a first stage of mastication or 
chewing. 

For example: Meat is pounded or minced. Bread, cheese, suet, or nuts 
are grated, chopped, or ground, because, by dividing these substances into tiny 
fragments, the digestive juices come more completely in contact with every 
particle. Eggs are beaten or whisked; the result of which is to entangle air 
in the glutinous substance. These bubbles of air expand when heated, so that 
the jelly-like mass becomes " light." If a cake or pudding is chilled by the 
premature opening of the oven-door before a crust has formed, the heated air 
contracts and the mixture is " heavy." Butter or lard is " rubbed " into 
flour; a process called "shortening." of which the object is to divide the lump 
of fat into very small particles, as well as to separate the grains of Hour. 
Pastry is "rolled" to make it dry and flaky, and it is pinched together gently 
at the edges when " folded" in order that cold air may be imprisoned between 
the folds. This air also expands in the process of baking and makes the pastry 
" light." Sometimes cheese and bread are grated and mixed before cooking, 
by which means the concentrated cheese particles are separated and made easy 
of digestion ; whereas uncooked or toasted cheese is often a source of dyspepsia. 

Another important form of manipulation is the removal of the bruised 
or diseased parts of fruits and vegetables, as well as their skins, cores, and 
stalks. The rinds and cores of fruit and the stalks of vegetables may fairly 
be compared to thin layers of cork, and are just about as digestible. All 
bruised or diseased parts of any form of food are the seat of decay and unfit 
for human food. 

REASON (3). THE COOKING OF FOOD INCLUDES THE COMHINATION OK DIFFERENT 

SUBSTANCES. 

(.) To afford variety: 

(b.) To increase the amount of nourishment. 

Illustrations of (a). The addition of lemon-peel or a few drops of vanilla 
to a cornstarch mould, or the flavouring of a meat-stew now with onion, 
parsnips, and carrots, now with celery. The combination of suet-pudding 
mixture with sultanas, or jam, or molasses, or syrup, or stewed fruit, or meat. 

Illustrations of (7>). The combination of eggs with milk in custard, or of 
butter with bread in a pudding, or of oil with lettuce in a salad. 



KKASOX (4). FOOD is COOKED TO ECONOMIZE HEAT AND ENERGY TO THE BODY. 

The temperature of the human body in health Is 98.5 Fahr. This 
temperature is maintained by the food eaten and the clothing worn. Now, 
all food must be raised to the temperature of the body before the process of 
digestion can begin. If cold food be eaten, the warmth necessary to raise it 
to 100 Fahr. must be furnished by the body itself. If hot food be eaten, 
that amount of heat is saved. Consequently, in cold weather, great bodily 
comfort and a decided gain of energy results from a hot meal. Indeed, the 
virtue as a body-warmer, ascribed to a glass of steaming, hot grog, exists 
chiefly in the rapidity with which the hot water is absorbed into the blood 
and carried all over the body. Alcohol, by the way. is a body-cooler; the 
reason for this will be explained in another bulletin. 

There is reason in eating cold meals in very warm weather, for in the 
process of their digestion the considerable amount of bodily heat utilized 
constitutes a relief and not a tax to the system. 

As previously stated, the process of applying heat renders some kinds of 
food more digestible. Energy otherwise used in dissolving it is thus saved 
for other purposes. All kinds of fruit and vegetables are rendered more easy 
of digestion by cooking. Compare a raw with a baked apple, or a cooked with 
an uncooked carrot. Well-cooked food also, such as a savoury roast or well- 
fried fish, stimulates the flow of the digestive juices; the food is better digested 
and the body is better nourished. 

llEASON (5). FOOD IS COOKED TO POSTPONE PUTREFACTION AND TO DESTROY 

PARASITES. 

Every housewife knows the importance of cooking meat or milk with as 
little delay as possible, especially in hot or damp weather. In one way the 
explanation is quite simple. All decay is the result of germ-activity, whether 
it take the form of the souring of milk, the tainting of meat, or the 
spoiling of fruit. These low forms of vegetable life thrive only when they 
have warmth, moisture, and suited food. 

Meat, fish, fruit, poultry, or game provide their favourite foods; conse- 
quently, given a hot day. they start work, for sufficient moisture is present 
in these substances to meet their need. If the air be damp, so much the 
better for their mischievous activities. Most of these micro-organisms, as 
they are called, thrive best at a temperature between 70 and 100 Fahr. 
They are killed by very high temperatures, such as that of boiling water. 
So we boil milk to preserve it. and so we cook meat also. But. unfortunately, 
so far as is at present known, it is only the surface of joints which is 
protected by cooking. The interior of a ."- or 0-m. roast, for instance, never 
reaches the temperature necessary to the destruction of these germs of decay, 
if they are present. 

This fact explains why. in hot. damp weather, joints "turn off" quickly. 
even when cooked. On the other hand, no animal parasite found in meat can 
withstand a temperature of 1!0 Fahr.; consequently, all meat and pork in 
particular should be "well done." 

Salt, sugar, spices, and herbs are all used to i>ostpone decay in foodstuffs, 
because they withdraw water and render the substance too dry for germ life, 
or they make the flavour nniKilatahle. to these food-spoilers. 



REASON (G). FOOD is COOKED TO INSURE CLEANLINESS. 

In the first place, dirt is removed by washing, wiping. " flouring." and other 
familiar methods: though, he it remembered, boiling water alone suffices to 
sterilize. Surface, visible dirt may be and is removed by cloths moistened 
in lukewarm water; but the use of a powerful microscope would reveal an 
amount of unsuspected dirt, disconcerting, though jtossibly convincing, to those 
who despise what they call " fads," and ridicule the proposal to insist upon 
greater precautions in the transport and preparation of food. 

Numerous and recurring outbreaks of typhoid fever have been traced in 
recent years to this source. The infective matter of typhoid fever is quite 
invisible to the naked eye. but it is constantly conveyed to food on the 
unwashed fingers of recent sufferers, who omit thoroughly to scrub their 
hands after attention to their bodily functions. Such food, unless boiled, can 
and does carry infection to its consumers. 

Two other unconsidered sources of uncleanliness exist in some kitchens: 

(1.) The use of any kind of paper which happens to be at hand, printed 
or otherwise, for lining or oiling cake-tins, covering puddings lest they burn 
in; the oven, draining fried fish, and so forth. The use of clean, fresh. 
imprinted paper alone should be allowed. Large sheets should be cut to a 
convenient size and stored for use in a card-portfolio placed in a convenient 
and prominent place in the kitchen. 

(2.) The use of dirty dish-cloths. These should be scalded daily (twice 
a day, if necessary) in boiling water, before being hung out to sweeten in 
a good current of air. A strict habit should also be formed of reserving 
certain cloths for certain purposes. A matter of some difficulty this where 
several people take part in kitchen-work, but a difficulty which can be over- 
come by that attention to detail which constitutes good housekeeping. 

REASON (7). (}ooi> COOKING ALSO ECONOMIZES EXPENSE. UKCATSIO: 

(.) It preserves food which would otherwise decay: 

(b.) It enables cheaper cuts of meat or fish to be used, of which the 
nutritive properties are equal to the most expensive, only they require 
more care in cooking, and take somewhat longer to prepare: 

(c.) It preserves instead of wasting the nutriment present in meat, fish, 
or vegetables. The object of broiling a steak, for instance, or of 
plunging scraped carrots into boiling water is to harden or seal over 
the surface, so to speak, so that the juices of the meat or the sugar 
in the carrot shall be retained; otherwise they would escape into the 
water and be lost : 

((?.) It allows "leavings" and odds and ends to be used up in the 
manufacture of savoury stews or soups, or of appetizing puddings. 
Skilled cooks utilize every drop of gravy or sauce, every fragment of 
vegetable or pie. every crumb of cake, for some "made" dish. It is 
the unskilled cook who is extravagant and careless. A whole bulletin 
could be prepared on the neglect of kitchen economy in this respect. 

PRINCIPAL METHODS OF APPLYING HEAT TO FOOD WHEN COOKING. 

(1.) Direct application of heat: 

(a.) Broiling Cooking over n glowing fire: 

(&.) Roasting Cooking before a glowing fire. 
(2.) Application by means of heated air: 

(.) Baking Cooking in an oven. 



10 

I.'!.) Heat applied by moans of water: 

(</.) r.oiling Cooking in water at 212 Fahr.: 

(It.) Stewing Cooking for a considerable time in water below 212 

Fahr. 
(4.) Ky contact with steam or by the heat of steam surrounding the 

vessel : 

(.) Moist Cooking in a steamer: 

(?>.) Dry Cooking in a double boiler. 
(.".) Heat applied by means of heated fat: 

((/.) Frying Cooking in hot fat deep enough to cover the article 

cooked. 
<;.) Heat applied by means of heated metal: 

<.) Cooking in a frying-pan or on a griddle, with little or no fat. 

METHODS OF COOKING FOOD BY HEAT AND MOISTURE. 

We cook food by exposing it to heat only, as when we roast broil, grill, 
or bake: or to heat combined with moisture, as when food is broiled or 
steamed: or to direct contact with a heated medium, as when food is fried 
in filr. 

WHY WE COOK BY BOILING. 

To say we boil food is not accurate. It is not the food which is boiled, 
but the water in which it is cooked. P.oiled food is spoiled food, as many a 
housewife knows to her cost. 

A cook has three distinct objects in view when she employs this method 
of preparing food : 

(1.) If she desires to retain till the nutriment and flavour of a fowl or 
tish. she plunges them into boiling water for a few minutes, to harden the 
surface, and thus to prevent the escape <>f nutriment. 

(2.) If she wants to (.'struct the juices or salts frain raw food, she places 
meat or bones in cold water, which she allows to come slowly to boiling-point. 
She keei is the water at this temperature until all the goodness has passed from 
food to water. 

(8.) If she wishes to make a thick syrup or sauce, she keeps the liquid 
at boiling-iKiint until much of the water has passed off as steam, when the 
fluid becomes thick. 





Slarcli of ;i 1'otnto enclosed in cellulose 
cells highly niiifjnilicd. 



Starch of a Potato swelling as it absorbs 
water, and bursting cellulose colls. 



11 

Boiling also brings about another form of thickening. It is common 
knowledge that all starchy grains, such as rice, sago, tapioca, oatmeal, or 
macaroni, must be cooked in boiling water, otherwise they remain hard and 
indigestible. When well " boiled " they become soft and glutinous. The reason 
for this change is found in the fact that the groundwork of every part of 
plants, whether hard or soft, is a fibrous substance called " cellulose," a tough 
and indigestible material, though often of marvellous delicacy. 




Starch of a Potato when changed by cooking. 

If a piece of potato or a few grains of arrowroot or rice be looked at 
under a microscope, they will be seen to consist of numbers of little round 
bags (or "cells," as we call them), of which the outer covering is comi>osed 
of cellulose. The nutritive starch is enclosed in these cells, and can only be 
released when their covering is softened by boiling. Under the influence of 
heat, too, the starch swells and bursts its envelope. Thus when a sauce 
thickens or rice softens, it means that the envelopes have burst and the 
contents of the cells have become soft and fit for food. 

All cereals, green vegetables, and most roots must be boiled, or their 
cellulose framework remains tough and indigestible. Meat and poultry or 
fish, on the contrary, must only be boiled just long enough to seal their pores, 
when the cooking process must be continued at a lower temperature; for they 
contain considerable amounts of a substance closely resembling white of egg. 
called "albumen." The difference between a ''lightly boiled" and a "hard- 
boiled " egg is familiar to us all. Fresh foods also become tough and leathery 
when cooked too fast or at too high a temperature. 

Haw albumen is quickly and easily digestible, and so it is when heated 
to 134 Fahr.. when fine threads of white appear in the clear, sticky liquid. 
If the temperature is raised another 30 the albumen becomes a tender, white 
jelly, when it is still quite suitable for the most delicate digestion. Kggs 
placed in boiling water and then stood on one side of the stove for twenty 
minutes, so that the water cools very gradually, are cooked to just this 
digestible degree. The tough condition of the "white" of a hard-boiled egg 
is common knowledge. It can be digested, but at a greater expenditure of 
time and energy. There are occasions when it is advantageous to be provided 
with hard-boiled eggs, as, for instance, when a long interval before the next 
meal is inevitable; but under ordinary circumstances the albumen in meat. 
eggs, fish, or poultry should be so cooked that its tender and digestible 
qualities are preserved. 




Savoury Double Boiler. 
WHY FOOD IS STEAMED. 

'I'll is method of preparation has much to recommend it. It signifies the 
cooking of foods hy exposing them to the vapour arising from boiling water. 
It is economical of space, fuel. time. food, and labour. 

(1.) HCOIIOIIII/ af X/HH-C a nil rucl. If <v steamer be used with several 
compartments, meat, vegetables, and pudding can all be steamed over one 
supply of water. The steamer occupies only a small space on the stove, or 
can be placed over one gas-ring or an alcohol or oil lamp. 

( I'. I VCOIIOIHII of Time. The steamer, if furnished with a warning whistle, 
can be safely left to take care of the dinner for considerable intervals of time, 
during which other duties can be comfortably performed. 

(.'{.) Hconoiini of l-'oo<l. When it is thus prepared it retains not only its 
full flavour, but all its nutritive ingredients. It is also particularly digestible, 
for which reason steaming is coming into more general use. 

Compare, for instance, the flavour of a marrow, tomatoes, or a cabbage 
when steamed in their own juices with that of similar vegetables after boiling 
in large quantities of water. The juices form a thin film of water in the 
steamer, which is converted into steam by heat. This condenses again into 
water as it comes into contact with the cooler vegetables within the closed 



13 

vessel ; the process being again and again repeated until the contents of the 
steamer are cooked. Meanwhile no loss of flavour or nutritive properties is 
lossible. 

Half a pint of water suffices to steam a dozen potatoes of average size, 
or a large fowl or a r>-lT>. joint. This is a distinct advantage where water 
is scarce or has to he carried some distance. A further advantage 1 is that 
foods can he steamed in the fireproof or china dishes in which they are to he 
served. This is an economy in "washing-up." 

Under the name of "double boilers" many useful varieties of steamers 
are now available for joints and poultry, as well as for vegetables and 
puddings. Perhaps the " Savoury " double boiler is among the best on the 
market. The advantages of cooking milk, custards, porridge, or any cereals 
in double boilers are too generally known to need more than passing reference. 

PAPER-BAG COOKERY. 

A method of steaming food, independently of utensils, has lately been given 
the prominence it deserves by its pioneer. Nicolas Soyer. The food is merely 
enclosed in a well-greased paper bag. placed on a grid or wire mat on the 
shelf in a hot oven, and emerges cooked to a turn, without the employment 
of steamer, stew-pan, or baking-dish. When cooked, the bag is torn open at 
the top, the contents are slipped on to a hot dish, the bag is burnt, and the 
washing-up of a greasy pan is saved. 

(a.) Cooking in a frying-pan or on a griddle, with little or no fat: 

Mr. Soyer points out that the success of his method depends solely on the 
use of average intelligence. He does not claim that all foodstuffs are suited 
to its use, but all kinds of meat, fish, game, and poultry, stews, curry, many 
egg dishes, root vegetables, and some pies and puddings, are thereby rendered 
appetizing and nutritious at the smallest expenditure of time, of trouble, and 
of money. 

The Soyer bags are made of perfectly pure material ; ordinary paper 
imparts a flavour of its own to the food. These bags are quite cheap and can 
be purchased in a wide range of sizes.* 

Having greased the bag, the food and liquid are slipped in and the mouth 
of the bag is folded over and secured by a paper clip. The bag must not 
come in contact with a solid oven-shelf, but must be raised on a wire mat or 
gridiron, in order that the hot air can circulate freely all round it. 

The temperature of the oven should be about 200 Fahr. The time neces- 
sary is indicated generally by Mr. Soyer in his little book on " Taper bag 
Cookery." In most cases it is from ten to twenty minutes shorter than by 
any other method. Uashers require six minutes; about forty minutes are 
needed for a stew of hare, rabbit, a curry, or a fowl. 

THE FIRELESS COOK-STOVE. 

Of even greater convenience to the busy housewife is the method of 
so-called tireless cookery, the modern development of the Norwegian Hay box. 
It is called tireless because the food, previously heated by ordinary methods, 
is placed under conditions which prevent the heat from escaping. 

It stands to reason, does it not. that if a ham be heated over the stove 
and then is immediately enclosed in such a way that no loss of heat can take 



*Particulars of where these bags may be procured with full directions for their 
use can be obtained from the Secretaries of the Women's Institutes. 



14 

place from the water in which it is immersed, the meat must continue to cook. 
The process is somewhat longer than if the pan were left on the stove, but 
the results are better: the meat is more tender and the flavour is first-rate. 
Meanwhile no attention has been required and the cost of fuel has been saved. 

Experience shows that if a stew he prepared, heated for twenty minutes, 
and put in the tireless cooker late on Saturday, it will be steaming hot and 
delicious when taken out at midday on Sunday if. be it said, the box is left 
unopened. 

The result is a saving of Sunday work, yet the satisfaction to the family 
of a hot meal. Or the cooker vessel may be filled overnight with boiling 
water: it will be found scalding hot in the morning. 

HOW TO MAKE A FIRELESS COOKER. 

In its simplest form a tireless cooker consists of a pan that can contain 
boiling water enclosed in a wooden box. with enough insulating material 
between the pan and the lox to prevent the heat from escaping. It can be 
quite easily made at home and will be found an invaluable possession. 

(1.) Make a wooden IK>X. of which the inside measurements should be at 
least 1S by is by ir> inches. 

(2.) Select a pail from '. to 1U inches in diameter and about 8 inches 
high, with a close-fitting lid. 

(3.) Surround the pail with two or three thicknesses of cardboard, firmly 
bound in place with string. 

(4.) Fill the bottom of the box with packing to a depth of at least 3 
inches (ground cork, such as that in which grapes are packed, or sawdust are 
good materials to use). Place the cardboard cylinder, with the pail inside 
if. in the middle of the box. upon the layer of packing. Then pack more 
sawdust all round it level with its upper edge, pressing the packing down 
very firm and hard. 

(5.) Cut a piece of thin wood to fit exactly the inside measurement of 
the box. In this cut a circular hole of just sufficient size to permit the pan 
to be drawn in and out through the opening. Fit this down firmly upon the 
packing, which it will keep in position. 

(<!. ) Make a cushion of sawdust. 3 inches thick, to fill completely the whole 
surface of the box above the slab of wood, so that the pan is enclosed on all 
sides by the same thickness of packing. Attach a well-fitting lid to the box, 
with strong hinges, and fasten with a hasp. Castors are a useful addition, 
as they allow the box to be run under the table out of the way. 

A granite pail is to be preferred. If a tin pail be used, it should be coated 
witli clear dripping and baked before use. This will darken but not injure it, 
and will prevent rust. 

When a stew is to be cooked, heat all the ingredients, after mixing, in an 
earthenware jar. until thoroughly hot. Cover, and plunge instantly into the 
pan in which water at boiling-point should reach two-thirds the height of the 
jar of stew. Cover the pan. put the cushion in place, and immediately close 
the IHX. which must not be reopened until the stew is cooked. Allow from 
three to four times the ordinary time; experience soon guides to the right 
allowance, though no harm is done if it be considerably exceeded. 

In the case of a ham, fowl, or joint of meat, the preliminary heating 
should take place in the pan itself, which must be plunged with all speed 
into the lx>x after twenty or thirty minutes on the stove. The cooking process 
is carried on so long as the large body of boiling water or other liquid retains 
its heat. 



15 

THE MODERN FIRELESS COOK-STOVE. 

The modern tireless cook-stove now on the market offers superior advant- 
ages over the home-made box. in that it enables foods to be roasted and baked 
as well as stewed or steamed. 









Fireless Cooker, with Equipment for Roasting and Baking. 



16 

The stove itself (of which there ;ire many varieties from which to select) 
is suhstantially similar to that just described. That is to say. it is so con- 
structed that heat once enclosed cannot escape; but, of course, it is lined with 
some non-absorbent metal which makes for cleanliness, and it contains from 
one to three compartments, so that a whole meal can be prepared by its means. 

For the baking or roasting of food what are described as "radiators" 
are supplied, round disks of iron or steatite. The procedure for roasting is 
as follows: Place two of the radiators over the flame of the stove for half 
an hour: meanwhile wipe the joint, dust it with pepper and salt, and place 
it in the cooking-vessel. Transfer a sizzling-hot radiator to the bottom of one 
of the compartments of the cooker, then fit the rack provided into the top of 
the vessel, over the meat, instead of a cover: deposit the vessel in the com- 
partment, quickly transfer the second radiator from the stove to the rack. 
dose down the cooker, and leave it for the time necessary, according to the 
size of the joint, say two hours. When removed, the meat will be found brown 
and delicious, with sufficient gravy to strain and boil up in the usual way. 

NOTK. The absence of basting, yet the joint is not burnt; the economy of 
fuel, yet the meat is done to a turn : the saving of labour, yet the certainty 
of success. 

Some practice is necessary TO succeed equally well with baking bread or 
cakes: but. given the attention called for. most excellent results are obtained. 

Not to be overlooked is the further advantage that, if absence be necessary 
for some hours, whether on business or pleasure, no ill effects result to the 
food. A hot. appetizing meal will await the return of the family, as well as 
a supply of scalding water to bathe the tired children or to wash the dishes 
as desired. 

No home, no camp, no institution, can afford to ignore the benefit conferred 
by this wholly excellent addition to kitchen equipment. 

FRYING. 

This is a favourite method of preparing food with busy people, because 
it is the quickest. When food is fried in a deep pan. containing sufficient fat 
to cover it. the result is wholesome and attractive, but the process does not 
render food so digestible as it is when steamed or slowly cooked. Frying in 
a shallow pan with a very small amount of fat is a fruitful source of 
indigestion. 

Fat has to be heated to a far higher temperature than boiling water 
before it is fit for cooking purposes. If the food is dropped into it before 
this high temperature is reached, it becomes sodden and dark in colour, coated, 
even soaked, with indigestible grease. On the other hand, during the process 
of reaching the necessary high temperature (indicated by the absence of all 
spluttering and the passing-off of a bluish vajKnir) the fat undergoes chemical 
changes which affect its digestibility, while the acrid, irritating fumes given 
off are distinctly objectionable. 

(Jiven a deep bath of fat at the right temperature and the immersion, 
therein of food coated in a mixture of egg and breadcrumb, and the product 
is a golden brown, dry. appetizing morsel. The nutriment it contains has been 
retained by the rapid hardening of the albumen in the egg. which also prevents 
the absorption of fat. 

Fat which bubbles when it contains no food is not hot enough for frying. 
The "spluttering" stage is brought about by the escape of the water contained 



IT 

in the fat in the form of steam, consequently the temperature of the fat 
at that stage is only that of boiling water. The spluttering recurs on the 
immersion of fish, potato, etc., owing to the explosion of the bubbles of water 
in the food, as they expand on conversion into steam. 

REASONS WHICH UNDERLIE SOME FAMILIAR COOKING PROCESSES. 

The more inquiries made into the why and wherefore of cooking, the mi in- 
interesting they become and the more we realize how little we know as yet. 
on the subject. 

Scientific experts in England and the United States are now devoting much 
time and great skill to the investigation of the "reason why" for kitchen 
procedure, because of its vast influence on human well-being. Few of these 
reasons are as yet known, but we have learned at least some. 

REASONS FOB COOKING KICK. 

Rice is first washed in cold water to remove the particles of starch clinging 
to the grains, which would otherwise cause them to stick together when cooked, 
so forming a sodden mass. 

The washed rice must be thrown into boiling water, in order to separate 
the grains, so that each may be thoroughly cooked. The water must be 
abundant, as starchy foods cannot soften, expand, and become digestible unless 
there be sufficient water for them to absorb. 

Rice is drained and dried before serving, to render it more digestible and 
appetizing by separation of the grains. 

SOME REASONS FOR THE CHANGES WHICH TAKE PLACE IN BREAD-MAKING. 

These changes are of two kinds, chemical and mechanical. The "sponge," 
for instance, is the result of the bubbles of gas liberated by the action of the 
yeast upon the flour (or. rather, upon a kind of sugar in the flour). 

The crisp, brown crust is caused by another chemical change in the flour, 
brought about by the high temperature to which the outside of the loaf is 
exposed. 

The kneading of the dough is a mechanical process, designed to make it 
elastic, and to secure that the chemically formed gas-bubbles shall be broken 
up into small portions and evenly distributed throughout the loaf, which thus 
becomes " light " and porous. 

The dough is then baked 

(a.) To kill the yeast ferment, so that its action shall not continue beyond 
the degree necessary to make the bread light: 

(1>.) To burst the starch-grains in the flour, so that they become digestible 
and nutritious : 

(f.) To expand the bubbles of gas and make the bread porous: 

(d.) To stiffen the gluten in the flour, so that the loaf preserves its shape: 

(c.) To crisp the crust, so that the loaf shall be appetizing, of a good 
appearance, and be well chewed. 

Space does not allow of any more illustrations being given to show the 
interesting reasons which underlie every process carried on daily in our 
kitchens; but enough has been said to indicate not only the responsibility of 
the cook, but how directly dependent are nutrition and economy \\\xn\ her 
skill and high standard of work. 



18 




Steamer. 
COOKING IS AN ART, A CRAFT, A SCIENCE, A SERVICE. 

It is an art. because life makes numberless demands upon the human 
system which rooking ran assist it to meet. The more civilized we become, 
the more unexpected and severe is the wear and tear of daily existence. The 
art of cooking lies in providing such a food-supply for the family that, while 
containing the elements essential to good nutrition, it shall be suited to the 



requirements of season, work, age, ami sex. and shall combine economy with 
due variety of flavour, and that attention to attractive service which contribute 
substantially to good digestion. 

It is a craft, because a good cook exercises much manual dexterity and 
uses a degree of skill so familiar as to be unobserved, unless the results of 
its absence are resented by the stomach and deplored by its owner! 

It is a science, because it has laws of its own. which it is our duty to 
discover, to learn, and to apply. When our cooks are as well trained as our 
doctors, the doctors will find their present occupation of ministering to " the 
sickest beast alive" is gone, and they will be free to devote all their attention 
to the prevention rather than the cure of disease. "The cook makes, the 
physician mends." Alas! how often the cook makes sickness, not health! 

It is a ftcri-icc, often despised and left in the hands of the ignorant or the 
careless. Actually it is an honourable calling, controlling in a large measure 
the welfare of humanity. 

No other art or science is so little understood, so lightly esteemed, or so 
casually performed. There is no craft where less progress has been made by 
the introduction of more intelligent utensils and tools. There is no service 
less considered, or of which the worth and dignity are less perceived. 

The Women's Institutes must see to it that British Columbia shall be 
distinguished by their persevering efforts to insure that the study of the 
preparation of food shall in future be intelligently pursued. When the results 
of such study are practically applied, the nutrition of its population w-ttl 
redound to the credit of those in whose hands rests the necessary provision 
and the right preparation of its daily bread 'the wives, sisters, and daughters 
of the nation. 

ALICE KAVEXHILL. 

FcUnir of Ilie Kof/iil Riniitui'i/ Inxtititte; Certificated Lecturer 
Xutiimtil Health Horictii, (Irent Hrilui'i and Ireland. 

Author of " I'ritfticol Ilui/iene for Uxe in tfcliooln " ; 
" Kleinentx of Siniiturii Lair''; " Sonic Cluinieterixticx 
anil Jtei/iiireinenta of Childhood'"; " Hoitxeliold Adinin- 
intnition "; " IlonseJiold Foex," etc. 

Lnte Lecturer on Ifuf/ieiic, Kitn/'x Collcr/e for Women, Vni- 
rernitji of London. 



NOTICE. 

The Department of Agriculture will issue the following series of bulletins 
prepared by Miss Alice Ravenhill. Shawnigan Lake. B.C.. to be available for 
distribution among the members of the Women's Institutes throughout the 
Province: 

1. The Place and Purpose of Family Life. 

2. The Preparation of Food. 

.'{. The Preservation of Food. 

4. Some Labour-saving Devices in the Home. 

.". Food and Diet. 

(5. The Art of Right Living. 

7. The Care of Children. 

BULLETINS ISSUED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 

No. 

7. Flax. 

s. Feeding Farm Animals. 
12. Information for Fruit-growers, 
lit). Varieties of Fruit recommended (revised). 

24. Farmers' Foes and their Remedies. 
2~>. Orchard Cleansing. 

2U. Practical Poultry-raising (revised). 

25. Production of Eggs. 

2!). Poultry Industry on the Pacific Coast. 

80. Guide to Bee-keeping in British Columbia. 

.'51. Foul Brood among Bees. 

.'!2. Control of Bovine Tuberculosis in British Columbia. 

33. Fruit-growing Possibilities, Skeena River and Porcher Island 

Districts. 

.'54. Fruit-trees and Black-spot Canker. 
.'$.". The Place and Purpose of Family Life. 
.'{<>. The Preparation of Food. 

Applications for bulletins published by the Department of Agriculture 
should be addressed to the Secretary. Department of Agriculture. Victoria. B.C. 



VICTORIA, B.C. : 
I'rlnted by WILLIAM It. (Mi. LIN, I'rlnler to the Kinjis Most Excellent Mnjesty. 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



Al 



RETURN TO the circulation desk of any 
University of California Library 

or to the 

NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station 
University of California 
Richmond, CA 94804-4698 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

2-month loans may be renewed by calling 
(510)642-6753 

1-year loans may be recharged by bringing 
books to NRLF 

Renewals and recharges may be made 4 
days prior to due date. 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 



71329 



LD21 



12.000(11/95) 




THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



UC-NRLF 



2 TDb S7S 



■r ■'' .: - •■ i ■ ~ ■£■■; '■,'-' 



agsS^Sa£v , Jte ' " ; :/, c'?-> 



PROVINCE Oi BRITISI 



DEPARTM; ? V 



BULLET 



THE PRESERVATK 



Fellow of the Royal 





FJtlS 


AVTllOIUir OF 


HE I.EfilSL. 













PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA, 



DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

(WOMEN'S INSTITUTES). 



BULLETIN No. 37. 



THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 



MISS ALICE RAVENHILL, 
Fellow of the Royal Sanitary Institute, etc., etc. 




THESOVERNMENTOF 
THE PROVINCE OF SRITISH CCUJMBIfl. 

FEINTED BY A UTllOMITT OF 
THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



VICTORIA, B.C. : 
Printed by William H. Cullin, Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty. 

1912. 



Department of Agriculture, 

Victoria, B.C., 26th February, 1912. 

The Honourable Price Ellison, 

Minister of Agriculture : 

Sir, — I have the honour to submit herewith Bulletin No. 37, 
entitled " The Preservation of Food," prepared on behalf of the 
memberB of the Women's Institutes. 

I have the honour to be, 
Sir, 
Your obedient servant, 

WM. E. SCOTT, 
Deputy Minister of Agriculture, 
Superintendent of Institutes. 



THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 



~TT7~H0LES0ME, suitable, and varied food is essential to efficient life. Imperfect 
\ \ nutrition from defective, not deficient, food is the unsuspected source of a 

large amount of ill-health, unhappiness, and crime. 

DESIRE FOR FOOD A FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCT. 

To desire and seek food is an instinct common to every type of life. The kind of 
nourishment necessary to maintain life in its countless forms is, of course, widely 
varied. The dietary of plants (gases from the atmosphere, salts from the soil, moisture 
from dew and rain) is obviously unsuited to insects, for instance, or fish. The ox is a 
strict vegetarian ; the cat is an equally consistent consumer of animal food. With few 
exceptions, notably the domesticated pig and dog, the diet of all types of life other than 
human is monotonous ; limited to a few kinds of food, of one class ; in the absence of 
which the creature dies, being unable to adapt itself to any decided change in its food. 
On the other hand, 

MANKIND THRIVES ON VARIED FORMS OF FOOD 

and benefits by change of diet. Indeed, if human life is to be vigorous, efficient, and 
prolonged, a combination of animal, vegetable, and mineral foodstuffs is essential. 

Efforts have been made by individuals, in the interests of convenience or economy, 
to limit their diet to bread or oatmeal over a given period, or otherwise to restrict their 
daily meals to one or two of the simplest forms in which food can be obtained — eggs, 
for instance ; but the end has been invariably disaster. Appetite fails, energy suffers, 
illness, even death, results. 

Some of the reasons why variety of food is so important to human health will be 
supplied in the bulletin on " Food and Diet." The point which now claims our atten- 
tion is this : If a sufficient quantity of wholesome, suitable, and varied food is essential 
to well-being, upon what does the supply depend ? 

THREE FACTORS IN HEALTHFUL DIET. 

Briefly, it depends upon three factors : — 

(1.) Ability to produce, purchase, or otherwise procure the food material necessary : 

(2.) Knowledge to guide the selection, preparation, and service of this material : 

(3.) Intelligence to direct and control the amount and character of the food pre- 
pared. 

At first sight factor ( 1 ) might be dismissed as dependent upon income only. A little 
consideration, however, will suffice to show that it underlies the whole question of food, 
preservation. Some kinds of food can be grown only in certain latitudes ; as, for 
example, wheat and corn, which must be transported long distances to millions of 
consumers. Most fruits and vegetables can only ripen in certain climates, and unless 
preserved in season would even then be enjoyed over a very short period of each year ; 
while to thousands their beneficial influences would be entirely denied. 

Again, the population of the world is either closely concentrated in huge cities or 
widely scattered over districts often remote from markets. In either case people depend 
upon other sources than their own produce for a part at least of their food-supply. 

Factor (2) calls for that knowledge which raises housekeeping to the rank of a 
profession. Training is necessary to understand why food which is wholesome in winter 



may be unwholesome in summer. Sausages, for instance, are always suspicious when 
the weather is warm, owing to the favourable soil they provide for the multiplication 
of putrefactive bacteria ; whereas this risk is practically absent when there are several 
degrees of frost, as a low temperature impedes the growth of micro-organisms. 

Again, instruction is needful to show why food which is suitable to the hard 
outdoor worker, such as pork, molasses and beans, is entirely unsuited to the city 
clerk, who passes his time in an overheated office ; for whose requirements a lunch of 
fruit and rice-milk, or a lightly cooked egg with bread and butter, would amply 
suffice. 

Knowledge of the process of digestion is required before the evils of a monotonous 
diet are understood. 

Food may in itself be nutritious, abundant, and well cooked ; yet the consumer 
will, sooner or later, lose all relish for his meals and fall a victim to dyspepsia in one 
of its myriad forms, unless there be variety of flavour and form. 

SOME RESULTS OF MONOTONOUS FOOD. 

The craving for a fillip to the palate is one dominant cause of drunkenness. An 
exaggerated consumption of pickles and sauces, of candies or of fruit, are frequent 
indications of this failure on the part of the cook to vary the character of her dishes. 
The craving for change has led even to the voluntary taking of nauseous drugs, which 
occurred so conspicuously at an industrial school for boys that an investigation as to 
the cause was undertaken. The unnatural taste was traced to the deadly monotony of 
the dietary, which was designed to fulfil all the needs of growing lads, except this 
important feature of judiciously varied flavour. 

THIS VARIETY SHOULD BE SOUGHT 

not in the use of artificial means, such as highly flavoured sauces, vinegar, or pickles, 
but by the employment of vegetables, herbs, small quantities of different spices, slight 
changes in the proportions of perhaps the same ingredients, or even in presenting the 
same dish baked one day, stewed or steamed another, and so on. 

ASSOCIATION BETWEEN FLAVOUR AND DIGESTION. 

Many housewives have noted the brightening eyes and smiles of pleasure associated 
with the appearance on their tables of an unfamiliar or a favourite dish ; but few cooks 
seem aware that the watering mouths and sniffs of satisfaction, excited by savoury 
odours from the kitchen, are so many aids to digestion and promoters of efficient work 
at home and at school. 

SOME REASONS WHY MEALS ARE MONOTONOUS. 

The thoughtful mother, permeated with the bracing spirit of Puritanism, dreads 
to foster greediness by a too frequent tickling of the family palate. The thoughtless 
housekeeper skimps her kitchen-work, from failure to realize its bearing on health and 
happiness. The tired woman shirks the extra trouble occasioned by consultation with 
her cookery-book before she plans the day's meals. 

FOOD-PRESERVATION AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN WHOLESOME 

VARIETY. 

The country housewife has acquired the habit of preserving certain foodstuffs, 
plentiful at one season of the year, in order to make good inconvenient deficiencies at 
another — berries, for instance, or pork. The town housekeeper is tempted, in spite of 
herself, to introduce some variety into her bill of fare, owing to the produce of the 
whole world being displayed in most attractive forms before her eyes, at her favourite 
store. 



Dried and canned foods maintain the health of dwellers in the Yukon, or of arctic 
or tropical explorers, and thus contribute to the world's progress. The lives of infants 
and invalids may hang upon this means of securing for them suitable nutrition under 
adverse conditions of climate, temperature, or disease. 

(Fig. 1.) 





Specimens of canned foods in 
common use. 
Figs. (1), (2), (S), (4), (5), (6), (9). and (10) are reproduced, by kind permission of Messrs. SidgwiCk & 
Jackson, London, from "Household Foes," bj r Alice Kavenhill. 

Some form of preservation is necessary for foodstuffs, such as meat, vegetables, 
eggs, or fish, which constantly have to be transported long distances ; half across the 
world, indeed, to meet the needs of some crowded community unable to supply its 
enormous demands locally. The food-supply of the capital city of our great Empire, 
with its seven million inhabitants, is drawn from all over the globe. To trace the 
sources of the ingredients in our own Christmas pudding will be found to constitute 
quite a fine exercise in geography ! 

AN IMPORTANT POINT IN FOOD-PRESERVATION. 

Too much insistence cannot be laid upon this point in connection with the wholesome 
preservation of food. It must not be subjected to any treatment which may interfere 
in the slightest degree with the process of digestion or which will disguise the fact if 
decay has already set in. Preferably, too, the appearance of the food should not be 
affected, though this is of minor importance. 

To discover how far these points are taken into consideration, it will be well 
briefly to review the 

METHODS OF FOOD-PRESERVATION IN GENERAL USE. 

These might be divided into two sections : — 

(1.) Commercial methods of food-preservation, carried out on a large scale, of 
which the products are for sale : 

(2.) Domestic methods, carried on in the home, for family use only. 

But so many of the processes employed are common to factory and home, varying 
only in the quantities of food materials handled, that it is possible to pass the methods 
and their reasons in review without such distinction. 

Before doing so, however, it is important to have a clear idea of 

WHAT DECAY IS. 

For the whole object of the preservation of food is to postpone what we call decay. 
Those changes in food which alter its character and often affect its appearance, which 



6 

usually influence its flavour and always make it unwholesome, occasionally even 
poisonous, are all included under the general term decay. 

Mouldy cheese, sour milk, tainted meat, strong butter, stale fish, decaj r ed fruit, 
musty flour, bad eggs, and fermented jam have one and all suffered these changes, 
owing to the invasion of their substance by the invisible seeds of germs, yeasts, and 
moulds. 

WHY DECAY SPREADS SO RAPIDLY. 

These micro-organisms multiply with extraordinary rapidity when the conditions 
of food, of temperature, and of moisture are favourable to their growth. It is said 
that one micro-organism, in itself too minute to be detected apart from its fellows, even 
under a powerful microscope, might fill the ocean solid with its offspring in five days, 
were their development unchecked. 

(Fig. 2.) 




Specimens of moulds which attack food : life-size and also highly magnified 
to show mode of growl li and method of seed-distribution. 

When we bear in mind that each of these microscopic atoms of life can become 
responsible for seventeen million descendants in twenty-four hours, it is a cause for 
thankfulness that the delicacy of their organization and the fastidiousness of their 
tastes never permit the realization of these risks, or they would rapidly oust us from 
the world. 

MICRO-ORGANISMS, GOOD AND BAD. 

As a matter of fact, man can only continue to inhabit the earth because of the 
valuable assistance he receives from these very micro-organisms, who serve his interests 
faithfully as scavengers when they destroy and remove his refuse, or as labourers when 
they fertilize his fields and gardens, or as chemists when they heat his silo. 

Vinegar, tobacco, linen, and cheese are but a few useful products which we owe to 
different families of these germs. But, like all good things, they must be kept in their 
right place, and that place is not in kitchen, larder, or store-room. 

WHAT IS FERMENTATION? 

Mention of one product of the micro-organisms of decay must not be omitted. Certain 
of these germs, while not actually themselves injurious to the food on which or within 
which they find a resting-place, yet render that food unwholesome by the results of 
their presence. Just as much as a number of people occupying a room for some time 



render the atmosphere of that room unpleasant and unwholesome ; or just as much as a 
garment worn next the skin becomes dirty from the perspiration with which it is in 
contact, so these minute living things bring about changes in their surroundings by their 
active life. 

The substances which bring about these changes are called ferments, and their 
results are called fermentations. If these fermentations occur in foodstuffs, their 
character and quality are so changed for the worse (with few exceptions) that they are 
quite unfit for human food. 

It may be argued that wine and beer are both the products of fermentation, but 
that when taken in moderation they are wholesome drinks. In both these cases the 
process of fermentation is watched ; it proceeds under carefully supervised conditions, 
and is checked at a definite point and moment. 

Besides which there are countless varieties of these micro-organisms some of which 
cause fermentations useful to man, while others are dangerous to his health. 

One property possessed by these ferments is the source of considerable trouble to 
the housewife, and that is their capacity for producing effects out of all proportion to 
the amount of ferment present. It is not the quantity of ferment produced in a joint 
of meat by these mischievous germs which taints the whole ; the widespread chemical 
changes, which render it unfit for food, may be brought about by a microscopic particle 
of the offending substance. 

MOULDS AND YEASTS AS AGENTS OF DECAY. 

Moulds also bear their part in causing food to be unpalatable, if not unwholesome , 
and yeast-plants grow freely in thin syrups, for instance ; hence the fermentation which 
sometimes takes place in carelessly bottled fruit. 

Thus decay in any of its varied forms may actually render food poisonous ; it 
certainly makes it less wholesome ; it spoils its appearance ; and assuredly it leads to 
much waste of what should be good nutritious material. 

(Fig. 3.) 




A dirty practice, which conduces to 
the decay of food in households where 
it is permitted. 

SUMMARY. 

(1.) Decay is the work of living organisms or of the results of their active presence 
in food substances. 

(2.) Necessary to their activity is suitable food, suitable temperature, and sufficient 
moisture. 



8 

(3.) These requirements are easily satisfied in food factory, market, shop, dairy, 
kitchen, larder, and store-room, unless constant and intelligent care and suitable 
precautions be exercised. 

It is therefore evident that in 

THE PREVENTION OF DECAY 

is found the means for the preservation of food. Housekeeper and food-purveyor alike 
are confronted by the problem how to prevent the access to foodstuffs of these germs, 
yeasts, and moulds, of which decay is the product. 

THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 

Attempts to solve this problem have been made along the following lines : — 

(a.) By so treating food that it becomes unfavourable to their growth and unsuitable 

to their nutrition : 
(b.) By submitting food to conditions which will destroy these micro-organisms, if 

there is reason to believe they are present : 
(c.) By protecting and sheltering food from their attacks. 

(a.) Means by which Food is rendered unsuitable for and unpalatable to 

the Sources of Decay. 

(1.) Food can be smoked (i.e., exposed for a longer or a shorter time to the vapour 
of burning wood or peat). The results of this treatment are threefold : — 

(i. ) The meat or fish becomes saturated with certain acid antiseptics, such as creosote, 
which are produced by the combustion of wood, peat, and coal. It is thereby 
rendered unpalatable to the germs of decay : 
(ii. ) The foodstuffs become too dry to supply the amount of moisture necessary to 

germ-growth : 
(iii. ) The smoke also destroj's the micro-organisms, if present, though here 
Two Cautions are necessary. 

Exposure to smoke will not affect the poisonous products of these putrefactive 
germs if decay has already set in ; neither does it destroy parasites. Consequently, 
smoked but uncooked " measly " pork or meat otherwise unsound cannot be made fit for 
food by this treatment ; neither should the consumption of smoked but uncooked 
sausages ever be permitted. In Germany it is illegal. 

(Fig. 4.) 




How flics infect food with seeds of decay and also with the germs of 
disease ; consumption, for instance, or typhoid fever. 

(2.) Food can lie dried by Exposure to Sun, Air, or Artificial Heat. — This is prob- 
ably the oldest of all methods of food-preservation, and is still in general use all over 
the world. Uncivilized man still dries his strips of meat or fish in the sun and wind ; 
civilized man more often relies upon this means of removing moisture to preserve 



vegetables and fruits, such as hops, herbs, peaches, grapes (raisins and currants, for 
example), or the peel of oranges and lemons. The result is to render the substance of the 
food too dry to allow any form of life to exist upon its surface. It is to protect from 
moisture in the air that groceries are stored in tins and roots are buried in dry earth. 

(3.) Food can be immersed in Brine, Sugar, Vinegar, or Alcohol. — A strong solution 
of salt has a twofold preservative effect. It extracts water from meat or fish, for 
instance, so that their flesh is unsuitable to germ-growth ; and it also removes some 
of the nutrient constituents present in the food, leaving it unpalatable to micro- 
organisms. 

Thick syrups and vinegar are also unfavourable to their development. Moulds will 
grow on the surface of both substances, but the delicate fibres are killed when in contact 
with an acid, neither can they push their way down into a dense substance, such as a 
thick syrup. 

Alcohol hardens food immersed in it, by extracting the moisture, and at the same 
time renders them unpalatable to any form of decay. 

(4.) Foods can be preserved by being highly spiced or strongly flavoured with Herbs. — 
It is believed that certain bitter principles, acids and oils, are present in spices and 
herbs, rendering the foods with which they are mixed unpalatable to micro-organisms. 
But, once again, a 

Note of Warning 

must be sounded. The pungent flavour of these favourite food-preservatives may be 
employed to mask the first stages of decay by unscrupulous tradesmen. Hence highly 
seasoned potted meats or sausages should be regarded with suspicion, unless their 
source and mode of preparation is known to the purchaser. 

Drawbacks to each of these Methods of Food- pre serration 

are found in that they affect the flavour and, more important still, the^ affect in some 
degree the digestibility of the substances for the preservation of which they are 
employed. 

The change of flavour is often pleasant ; rarely, if ever, objectionable ; neither is 
the second drawback really serious when preserved foods form only a part of the diet 
of adults in good health who are leading an active life. For children they should 
always be used sparingly, and ought to be well combined with fresh milk, vegetables, 
and eggs, as their nutritive properties are usually affected as well as their digestibility. 

When, as in some climates, foods thus preserved necessarily constitute the sole 
source of supply, previous soaking in cold water and careful cooking minimize the risks 
to digestion, or other forms of ill-health, liable to result. 

(5.) Foods can be preserved by the U*e of Chemicals. — Different forms of borax, 
formalin or formaldehyde, salicylic acid, etc. , all retard the decomposition of food. They 
are so easy of employment that, in the case of perishable articles, such as milk, cream, or 
sausage-meat, the temptation to use them is often irresistible. No external alteration in 
flavour or appearance draw attention to their addition to milk, for example ; but, 
unfortunately, they seriously interfere with the process of digestion, cause much 
dyspepsia, and, in rare cases, loss of life. 

Why Chemical Preservatives interfere with Digestion. 

The putrefaction of food is due, as has been said, to a process of fermentation 
caused by the activities of the micro-organisms of decay. Strange as it may sound, 
digestion within the body is due to a corresponding process, far too technical and 
complicated to be entered into here. But the fact must not be overlooked that when 
such antiseptics as boracic acid or formalin are added to foods to prevent the 



10 

fermentation known as dec-ay, they also, more or less, prevent digestion after the food 
is swallowed. Consequently their use should l»e everywhere illegal, as it is in the 
United States and, to a partial extent, in England. 

The employment of chemicals for the preservation of milk is particularly 
undesirable, as it enters so largely into the diet of infants and invalids. It is not 
generally known that the natural souring of milk is its own form of protection against 
putrefaction, for the germs of decay cannot grow in acid — i.e., in soured milk. 

Now, sour milk is not unwholesome, except for young children and the nick. But 
the changes which take place in milk when, by the addition of chemicals, the normal 
formation of lactic acid is prevented are a source of grave risk to the consumers, 
specially so to babies. 

(6.) The Preservation of Food by chilling it to a Temperature beloir £0" Fahr. — 
Taking everything into consideration, therefore, this is quite the most satisfactory 
method of rendering it unsuitable to the attack of any form of putrefactive germ, 
always supposing that the process be tarried on under good conditions of care and 
cleanliness. No change in flavour, digestibility, or appearance ensues, but the food 
must be consumed almost immediately after its removal from cold-storage, for a 
tendency to rapid putrefaction develops when such food is brought back into warm, 
damp air. This tendency is probably the result of the moisture which at once 
condenses on its surface; but, whatever the cause, decay quickly ensues, whether it be 
in meat, fish, fruit, milk, or vegetables. 

The Effect of a Lou- Temperature on Food 

is to prevent the development of the germs of putrefaction, or to arrest their activity 
if already developed. None of the organisms responsible for decay in food can develop 
at a temperature so low as 40° Fahr. or less. Once again, however, 

Two Cautions must be given. 

Cold, even zero cold, does not destroy the source of decay if present in food. 
The seeds of putrefaction remain merely quiescent, to quicken into active life when 
temperature, moisture, and nutrition are once more favourable to their growth. 

The temperature of the domestic refrigerator is rarely low enough or steady 
enough to be reliable as a certain means of food-preservation. Neither are conditions 
of cleanliness and ventilation sufficiently understood by the ordinary housewife to 
allow food materials to be safely stored for more than a few hours. 

For commercial purposes, and under skilled supervision, this method is rightly 
superseding all others for the preservation of foods, whether during transpoit or while 
awaiting distribution from market or store. 

(6.) Means by which Food may be preserved by Exposure to Conditions 
which will destroy microorganisms if present. 

Exposure to great heat, or sterilization, prolonged over a sufficient period, is the 
only means of food-preservation which comes under this head. 

Moulds are usually destroyed by any temperature above 150° Fahr. , but nothing 
less than boiling-point (212° Fahr.) can be relied on to destroy germs ; and even higher 
temperatures, which cannot be secured in our kitchens, are necessary to kill the seeds 
from which these germs grow. 

Two Great Drawback* to Sterilization 

exist as a domestic method of food-preservation : — 

(i.) All fowls are bad conductors of heat, so that the deeper parts of a joint of 
meat, for instance, never reach a high enough temperature to ensure their 
protection from putrefaction : 



11 

(ii.) The very high temperatures really necessary to destroy the seeds of germs, 
as well as the germs themselves, can only be secured by apparatus not as yet 
available for home use ; consequently, a false security may be enjoyed if 
boiling only be accepted as sufficient protection to our food. 
Protection of Water by Boiling. 

" What, then," you will ask, "about the protection of water by boiling?" In this 
case the difficulty can be overcome to a great degree, because, in the first place, every 
drop of water can be raised to boiling-point, given sufficient time. We know that the 
germs of disease which are conveyed to us by water are killed if boiled for at least 
half an hour. Therefore, where water is suspicious, the day's supply for drinking 
purposes can be boiled for that length of time. 

"But how about the seeds of these germs," you will inquire; " should not they 
also be destroyed?" This further protection can be extended to water by allowing it 
to cool and stand for some hours and then boiling it for a second half-hour. In the 
interval the seeds of any germs, if present, will develop into germs, in which form a 
temperature of 212° Fahr. means death to them. 

It is believed that the germs of disease most often carried by milk — namely, those 
of tuberculosis — are completely destroyed by a temperature rather below boiling-point ; 
but, unfortunately, milk appears to suffer some change when cooked for the necessary 
time, which renders it less wholesome for children. 

A Necessary Precaution for Boiled Milk and Water. 

Please note the importance of covering all water or milk which has been boiled. 

It must be understood that the whole universe swarms with micro-organisms, some 
of which are floating in the air, from which they fall iqion our persons, our property, 
and our food. Happily, most of these invisible millions are our good friends, and not 
the least of their very valuable services is to protect our bodies and all forms of food 
against the invasion of disease and putrefaction. 

(Fig 5.) 




Food-preservation by means of a 
layer of fat. 

Sometimes these benign and kindly germs are overpowered by the invaders. If 
this occur in our bodies, we are sick ; if it occur in our food, decay sets in. Now, the 
misfortune is that when milk or water is boiled, we kill our friends as well as our foes 
among these germs. Therefore, if the undesirable germs, occasionally present in the 
air, in dust, or in dirt, fall upon the surface of this defenceless milk or water, they can 
carry on their mischievous activity unchecked. Sterilized food is defenceless food ; 
therefore it must be sheltered by covering of a suitable kind. 

A slip of glass is to be preferred for this purpose. It fits closely to the rim of the 
jug or bowl, and shows every spot of dirt or greasy finger-mark. A cloth, however 
clean it looks, may have been exposed to much dirt or handled by many grimy fingers 
before it is used to cover a jug of boiled water or a bowl of boiled milk. 

Exposure to Hiqh Temperature. 

Exposure to a high temperature over a prolonged period alters in some way the 
character of the food so treated. While protecting it in one direction, the heat seems 



12 

to interfere in another with its nutritive properties. The food seem less digestible and 
its " livingness" seem in some way destroyed. The reasons for these subtle changes 
have not jet been clearly traced; that they occur is unquestionable. 

We must now pass on to a review of the methods employed. 

(c.) Keep Food protected from the Attacks of Germs, Yeasts, and Moulds. 

Of these there are several, most of them being quite familar to us. 

(1.) The Exclusion of Air. — As air is necessary to the life of most of these micro- 
organisms, they cannot develop in or attack food from which all air is excluded. 

A favourite domestic application of this method of food-preservation is to cover the 
surface of potted meat or fish, for example, with a layer of lard or other fat, which is 
impervious to air. Oil or paraffin-wax serve the same purpose. 

Commercially, oil is also employed to preserve fish, such as sardines, herrings, or 
anchovies ; and in Italy a few drops of oil seal the necks of wine-flasks, instead of 
corks. 

The exclusion of air is, of course, one secret of success in jam-making or preserving 
fruit or vegetables, combined with a very high temperature, which destroys micro- 
organisms if present. We all know that if a jar is not brimful of boiling fruit and 
syrup, so that even the tiniest space is left for air to occupy, decay invariably follows, 
usually in the form of moulds. 

The enormous quantity of 

Canned Foods 

on the market illustrates the wide utilization of this method of food-preservation by air- 
exclusion, combined with previous sterilization. Ill-effects rarely follow its consump 
tion ; nevertheless, every one who uses canned foods should never omit to practise the 
following precaution :— 

(a.) Always turn out the contents of any tin into a glass, china, or earthenware 
dish immediately the tin is opened. This precaution is quite as necessary in the case of 
fish preserved in oil, though it is usually neglected. 

This precaution is necessary, because the exact extent to which the natural acids 
of food corrode the inner surface of tins is not yet known ; but injurious metallic salts 
are occasionally found, and such chemical action is more liable to occur when the tin is 
opened and the contents become exposed to the external air than when it is hermetic- 
ally sealed. For this reason food should, when possible, be always preserved in glass 
or china vessels. 

(Fig. 6.) 




^^Sa 1 "— ^ .*■• 



Where Serins flourish and flies breed. 

(b.) Form the habit of examining each tin before opening it, as to the soundness of 
its contents : — 

(i.) By the Eye. Slight inward bulging, or concavities, of the surface are a good 

sign. Outward bulgings, or convexities, are a danger-signal, and show that 

the gases of putrefaction have formed : 



13 

(ii. ) By the Ear. Tap the tin with a pencil or the finger-nails. A high ringing 

sound is what should result. A dull, dead sound is a warning that all is not 

well within. 

If the process of sterilization were incomplete or if the tin were insecurely sealed, 

sooner or later the process of decay begins ; and the effect is to give rise to these 

external signs and sounds. The contents of such tins are unfit for human food. 

(2.) The Preservation of Food by Suitable Storage. — The requirements for this 
method of protection should be now known to the reader. Food must be kept — 
(a.) Dry; 
(6.) Cool; 
(c.) Clean ; 
(d. ) Protected from the access of decay. 

(Fig. 7.) 




A jiood form of domestic larder. 



14 

How does the ordinary housekeeper provide for these requirements? 

No room is ever entirely free from the presence of moulds, yeasts, and bacteria, 
though in cleanliness, pure air, and abundant light we possess three powerful agents for 
their control. 

Never forget that darkness, damp, and dirt favour their growth and foster their 
increase. 

Cellars and dark, ill-ventilated cupboards are not fit places for food-storage. 

A Good Larder. 

To be trustworthy, a good larder must be so light tha f . every corner aud crevice 
can be kept clean. It must have a through draught of air, so that moulds and germs shall 
be carried through it on a current ot air. If the air in a larder be still, any micro- 
organisms it contains will gradually sink on to the contents of the shelves and breed 
decay. The shelves and walls should be made of or covered with some impervious 
materials, so that if grease or milk or syrup be spilt, they can be completely washed off 
and leave no residue to afford food for the seeds of decay. 

It must be dry, or food will taint and mould in spite of all care. Fig. (7) illus- 
trates a home-made effort to secure all these requirements at moderate cost. This larder 
is made of four mosquito-proof doors. Inside, where each door joins another, mouldings 
are fixed, so that no insect can force its way in from without. 

(Fig. 8.) 



Repn 




Saving sir) 



KulMin Issued by Cornell CTirlverslty, U.S.A. 



15 

The woodwork and shelves have had two coats of Solignum (an excellent wood, 
preservative, so pungent that it banishes insect life and also makes the surfaces 
impervious). This can be renewed every lew months. 

This larder stands on a north verandah, in a position which allows a free circulation 
of air all round it ; where also ample light reveals dust, grease spots or stains. 

Daily and Seasonal Care of I he Larder. 

Daily in summer, at longer intervals in winter, the shelves should be wiped over 
with a strong solution of formalin (one tablespoonful of formalin to six of water). This 
is not only a good disinfectant but a destroyer of in-ects. 

In cold weather it is advisahle to minimize the inconvenience of frozen food by 
surrounding the larder at night, or all day in snowy weather, with a washable curtain 
of burlap or heavy sheeting. 

A Useful Supplementary Larder 
for winter use is shown in Fig. (8), which is in general use in the United States. The 
box should exactly fit outside a north window, and should come half-way up the lower 
sash. It should be about 18 inches deep and fitted with a shelf. When the window is 
opened the contents of the box are easily accessible ; and in cold weather the sash may 
remain raised, in order ihat the warm air from the room may keep the food from 
freezing. Of course, its contents must be protected from the dust of the room by a 
muslin curtain, and the inside of the box should be well treated with Solignum or 
creosote ; or the box may be lined with white oilcloth. 

Ijegal Powers 

to insist upon suitable accommodation for the domestic storage of food are exercised in 
England by the London County Council and other large municipalities. The owner who 
occupies or lets on hire any house, rooms, or lodgings without such provision is liable to 
a penalty of $10, and a fine of $5 a day, until he obeys the Council's order to supply a 
"sufficient and suitable" larder for each occupant from whom he receives rent. 

Cellar-storage of Food 

is only allowable under the following conditions : The cellar must be perfectly dry. 
The walls and floor should be laid in concrete or, better still, in cement, to keep out 
moisture. This allows them to be washed at intervals and kalsomined twice a year. 

A cellar used for food-storage must be well ventilated and light. Therefore there 
must not only be windows, but they must be kept clean and made to open. It is also a 
good plan to have small openings in the walls, well distributed, and covered with 
mosquito-netting. Through currents of air will thus be ensured. 

During the winter, when roots and potatoes need storing in the dark, a curtain 
can be hung over one or more windows, and periodically removed for sweeping. 

A cellar so constructed and kept is serviceable during the heat of summer for 
storing fresh provisions, always supposing that strict cleanliness be practised. 

THE PRESERVATION OF GROCERIES, FRUIT, VEGETABLES, ETC., 

IN THE HOME. 

It will now be realized how sound are the methods in common use by the well- 
trained housewife for protecting foodstuffs from the attacks of micro-organisms, though 
often she may have been unable to give a reason for what she does. 

Potatoes and root vegetables remain plump and fresh when kept dry and sheltered 
from the attack of moulds, etc., by a covering of dry earth. 

Cranberries are correspondingly protected by the water in which they are 
immersed. 



. 



1G 

Eggs can only become " bad," when stored beneath the surface of a 10-percent, 
solution of water-glass, from the activit}' of micro-organisms already within their 
shells before preservation. 

The object of storing crackers and cakes in tightly closed tins is, of course, the 
exclusion of moisture. Similarly, sugar, tea, and other groceries are kept in tin-lined 
or earthenware utensils. 

Hams, bacon, or smoked meats or fish should be put into cheese-cloth or linen 
bags before being hung in a dry, well-ventilated place. 

Apples, lemons, tomatoes, and similar fruits should be wrapped separately in soft 
paper after wiping, and stored on airy shelves, which may be covered with straw or 
chaff or sawdust. 

The reason for this care, which to some may seem superfluous, lies in the channels 
by which the germs of decay or the seeds of moulds reach the foodstuffs they destroy. 

The two channels of primary importance, and those only to which reference can 
here be made, are : — 
(a.) The air. 
(b.) Flies. 

(o.) The Air. 

It has already been pointed out that these mischievous atoms of microscopic life, 
the organisms of decay, are always present in the atmosphere, with the exception of 
mid-ocean and the summits of very high mountains. 

When the air travels fast, they are rushed along in its currents; but so soon as it 
is still the micro-organisms, with the dust of which they form an ingredient, gradually 
drop down on to the surrounding surfaces. 

If these be moist and the air be warm, the chances are the seeds of decay will 
begin to grow. They will certainly do so if the substance on which they settle is one 
on which they can feed. 

Now, invisible moisture collects in the "pits" round the eyes or stems of fruit 
such as apples, pears, or tomatoes ; or in any dent in their skins, or in the crevice 
where two fruit rub shoulders. 

Porous Paper as a Fruit-preservative, 

Soft porous paper wrappings serve a double purpose. They absorb moisture from 
the air before it reaches the fruit at all, and by covering the fruit they prevent germs 
or moulds from falling on to its surface. 

(6.) Fliks. 

In conclusion, a few words must be said about the great importance of the protection 
of food from flies, which are known to be a fruitful source of disease in food as well as 
a channel by which the sources of decay menace its soundness and sweetness. 

"Fly-spots" consist of the saliva and excrement of flies, as they pass impartially 
from cow-dung or night-soil to the baby's milk or the family sugar or cake. It is not, 
therefore, surprising that the fly is now shunned as one of the chief carriers, not only of 
dirt and decay, but of the infection of typhoid fever, tuberculosis, and other dangerous 
diseases. 

The Structure af a Fly and its Habits 

adapt it peculiarly for the conveyance of filth, in addition to the micro-organisms which 
swarm these "fly-spots." The six, many-jointed legs are denseby hairy, and each leg 
terminates in a pair of hooks, with a "glue-pad" attached to each hook. A glance at 
F'g- (10) will make clear the enormous power possessed by a fly for carrying tilth from 
the unclean to the clean. 



17 

Flies breed in house-refuse, manure, or any decaying matter. They increase with 
such rapidity that, assuming one-half of one fly's output of eggs to hatch out, live, and 
raise families of their own, the number of flies from this single source would be 216,000 
in thirty days, and in forty days it could amount to over 2,000,000. 

(Fig. 0.) 




The House-fly, with larva and pupa ; all highly magnified. 



Larva. 

This stage lasts about six days. 




Pupa. 
This stage lasts about three days. 

If a house is infested with flies, the source of the trouble is usually near at hand ; 
for generally they do not fly a greater distance than 200 yards from their breeding-places, 
though a high wind may carry them much farther. 

Coal-oil they abhor. It is wise, therefore, to wash over windows and round the 
frames with coal-oil at intervals during the summer, and a good dressing of turpentine 
round every crevice of the windows in the earl}' spring will often destroy Jlies which 
have spent their winter in these haunts. 

It is worth while, also, to wipe over the network of the larder daily in summer 
with coal-oil ; and saucers containing one spoonful of formalin to six of water should 
be placed about wherever flies are seen to congregate. They are attracted to the 
fluid and killed. 



IS 

Most important of all, no heap of garbage, no refuse of food, no filth, should be 
allowed to accumulate. Burn in the stove all that the pigs cannot eat ; and any necessary 
rubbish-heap which cannot be otherwise disposed of during the period when burning 

(Fig. 10.) 




The leg, claw, and glue-pads of a fly, highly magnified. 

is illegal, cover it, after each addition of refuse, with a thin layer of earth ; which 
simple precaution will prevent it from becoming a flies' nursery. If coal-oil is poured 
over the earth, it will act the more efficaciously. 

CONCLUSION. 

Unfortunately, space does not permit the risks to food to be dealt with which are 
incidental to careless and dirty methods of handling in transport or while under 
display in market or store. 

The subject of food-preservation is, indeed, a vast one, calling for much more 
detail than can be adequately included in one bulletin. It is, however, to be hoped 
that the reasons given for well-established customs, the suggestions made on points 
liable to be overlooked by the busy housewife, the hints offered on unsuspected 
dangers, may add interest to the work of some women, stimulate others to increased 
exercise of the "eternal vigilance 1 ' often a burden to the unintelligent worker, incite 
all to a desire for fuller knowledge, and thus promote the welfare of many 
households. 



1!) 



NOTICE. 

The Department of Agriculture is issuing the following scries of bulletins 
prepared by Miss Alice Kavenhill, Shawnigan Luke. B.C., to be available for 
distribution anioug the members of the Women's Institutes throughout the 
Province : — 

1. The Place and Purpose of Family Life. 

2. The Preparation of Food. 

3. The Preservation of Food. 

4. Some Labour-saving Devices in the Home. 

5. Food and Diet. 

<;. The Art of Right Living. 
7. The Care of Children. 

BULLETINS ISSUED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 

No. 

7. Flax. 

8. Feeding Farm Animals. 

20. Varieties of Fruit Recommended (revised). 
25. Orchard Cleansing. 

28. Production of Eggs. 

29. Poultry Industry on the Pacific Coast. 

30. Guide to Bee-keeping in British Columbia. 

32. Control of Bovine Tuberculosis in British Columbia. 

33. Fruit-growing Possibilities. Skeena River and Porcher Island 

Districts. 

34. Fruit-trees and Black-spot Canker. 

35. The Place and Purpose of Family Life. 

36. The Preparation of Food. 

37. The Preservation of Food. 
3S. The Construction of Silos. 

Applications for bulletins published by the Department of Agriculture 
should be addressed to the Secretary. Department of Agriculture, B.C. 

ALICE RAVENHILL, 

Fellow of the Royal Sanitary Institute; Certificated Lecturer 
National Health 'Society, Great Britain and Ireland. 

Author of 'Practical Hygiene for I'xc in Schools"; 
■•Elements of Sanitary Law''; '•Some Characteristics 
and Requirements of Childhood"; "Household Admin- 
istration"; "Household Foes," etc. 

Late Lecturer on Hygiene, University of London. King's 
College for Women. 



VICTORIA, B.C. : 
Printed by William II. Cilli.n, Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty. 

1912. 






*3 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



RETURN TO the circulation desk of any 
University of California Library 
or to the 
NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station 
University of California 
Richmond, CA 94804-4698 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

• 2-month loans may be renewed by calling 
(510)642-6753 

• 1-year loans may be recharged by bringing 
books to NRLF 

• Renewals and recharges may be made 4 
days prior to due date. 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 



3 6 



MAR 2 7 1339 



vs 



LD21 



12.000(11/95) 



[* 






M259477 


♦ 


s/f/ 

A<f 






.~)U>.$Z- 


M- y 


THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



