


'■I :, 






BYi!^¥ 






% 



i!■lj''^.•.;H;l!:^i,i:l^,•'■^fAy ,;, 









IWtyl .'.!!iii 









■:m.:i)y 




f:M^^}^'-'^''H 



m 







jp-n*. 



■o ^^^.♦^ .* 









-. ^O 









o, f 






'\,'^^' :m£'^ '%..^'' 









fe^W*^K:>t:^K^-^^^ 



-. -^Ao* 






<^, '-.T 






\._^^y^^.*\^ '^ "'•.^^K*' ^'^'^^'\. "''^^** ^'^\ 

O^ *o , * * A 










';* '^^ ^ • 





















; «:^^^^. 












•' -bv* 







^ov*^ • 



SCIENTIFIC COOKING 

WITH 

SCIENTIFIC METHODS 



By 
SARAH E. WOODWORTH CRAIG 

"Wizard of the Skillet and the Oven," 
According to the American Press. 



Author of "To the Qyeen's Taste and Fit for the King, 
and numerous articles in Sir Thomas Murry's 
"Twentieth Century Cooking." 



STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. 

Cincinnati, O. 

1911. 



4 



a^ 



IP 



Copyright. 1911, 

by 

Sarah E. Woodwokth Craig. 



©GI.A283496 



Irbiratuin 



MARY BARLOW HARKNESS. 

My dear and lifelong friend, 
in appreciation of her loving 
encouragement and untiring 
efforts to help me, whose 
motto was always : 

'Get work, get work ; 
'Tis better than what you work to get," 

This book of original and 

compiled recipes is 
affectionately dedicated 

by 
THE AUTHOR. 



(iii) 



Oh, hours of all hours, the most blessed upon earth, 
Blessed hour of dinner. 

***** 
We may live without poetry, music and art ; 
We may live without conscience and live without heart ; 
We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but 

grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man who can live Avithout dining? 

— Meredith. 



(V) 



EDITOR'S PAGE, 



Miss Craig comes of a lono^ line of good cooks and 
high livers, and can cook any and all of the dishes diffi- 
cult to make, but, in issuing a book, has confined her- 
self to the simple methods, and has reduced the detail 
in the kitchen to a minimum in many ways, and on 
this line hopes to be able to inspire people to keep 
cleaner kitchens, with the aid of the present methods 
of gas cooking, and the light, beautiful utensils that 
the market is offering for use on the gas stove. Miss 
Craig's mother was a direct descendant of Samuel 
Woodworth, of ''The Old Oaken Bucket" fame, who 
at one time edited the New York Mirror, while on the 
father's side she is Scotch-Irish, who was a descendant 
of ''Sir Thomas Craig, of Scotland," which the Omaha 
Press says is a fine blend. 



(vii) 



PREFACE. 



In all ages and all climes the pleasures of the table 
have been appreciated and cultivated, from the time 
of the Epicureans, when people lived to eat, down to 
the present daj^ when, with the study of food properties 
and their dietetic values, we are approaching the more 
ideal state, and eat to live. Indeed, many doctors of the 
present time resort to a dietary cure as often as to a 
medicinal one^ and this ranks cookery with the arts. 
But in the scientific blending of proteids, carbohy- 
drates and fats, the careful and dainty preparation 
must not be overlooked— our food must appeal to the 
eye as w^ell as to the palate, as a direct aid to digestion. 
And the simplest rules for doing this I have tried to 
give in this book, always remembering Ruskin's defini- 
tion: "Cookery means much tasting and no wasting; 
it means English thoroughness, French art and Arabian 
hospitality; it means the knowledge of all the fruits 
and herbs and balms and spices; it means carefulness, 
inventiveness and watchfulness; the economy of our 
grandmothers and the science of modern chemistry." 



(ix) 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Chapter. 

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

V. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 

X. 

XI. 

XII. 

XIII. 

XIV. 

XV. 

XVI. 

XVII. 

XVIII. 

XIX. 

XX. 

XXI. 

XXII. 

XXIII. 

XXIV. 

XXV. 

XXVI. 

XXVII. 

XXVIII. 

XXIX. 

XXX. 

XXXI. 

XXXII. 

XXXIII. 

XXXIV. 

XXXV. 

XXXVI. 

XXXVII. 

XXXVIII. 

XXXIX. 

XL. 

XLI. 

XLII. 



Page. 

Foods 1 

Cookery 9 

Bread and Bread-making 13 

Cereals 33 

Soups 36 

Soups with Stocks 48 

Garnishes for Soups 55 

Preparation and Care of Fish 57 

Oysters and Shell Fish 69 

Beef 86 

Veal 99 

Lamb and Mutton 106 

Sweetbreads 113 

Pork H^ 

Poultry and Game 120 

Fish and Meat Sauces 135 

Vegetables ^^^ 

Entrees 1^^ 

Nuts 1^^ 

Eggs HI 

Pastry ^^9 

Pies 214 

Pastry Desserts ^^^ 

Pudding Sauces 227 

Hot Puddings 230 

Cold Desserts 240 

Frozen Desserts 247 

Beverages ^^^ 

Salads and Salad Dressings 272 

Canapes and Sandwiches 28G 

Gingerbread, Cookies and Wafers 292 

Cakes 296 

Cakes Made with Butter 303 

Cake Fillings and Frostings 312 

Fancy Cakes and Candies 319 

Use of Chafing-dish 327 

Invalid Cookery 335 

Food for Children 348 

Fruits — Fresh, Canned and Preserved 352 

Household Hints 367 

French Terms Used in Cooking 378 

Food Combinations 383 

Index ^^^ 



SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER I. 
FOOD. 



FOOD is what we take to nourish and sustain the 
body. In the body are found thirteen elements: 
oxyi^en, 621/2%; hydrogen, 10%; carbon, 211/2%; nitro- 
gen, 3% ; calcium, potassium, phosphorus, sulphur, 
chlorine, sodium, magnesium, iron and fluorine, 3%. 

The food must contain the elements found in the 
body in order to sustain it, and repair the waste, and 
make the child grow, and give the man energy for his 
daily work. All food must undergo a chemical change 
after being taken into the body, before it can be utilized 
by the body, and this is done by the digestive system. 

The foods come under two heads: 



Inorganic 



I Proteid. 
-I Carbohy 
I Fats an 

{ 



Organic -{ Carbohydrates, 
and oils. 
Mineral matter. 
Water. 



The work of the proteid is to build and repair tis- 
sues. Example: milk, egg-s, cheese, meat, fish, cereals, 
beans, lentils and peas. Albumin is the principal con- 
stituent of proteid matter. 

In the egcr it is known as albumin; casein in the 
milk and cheese; vegetable casein in peas, beans and 



^ SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

lentils; and i^ the wheat, glutine; gelatine in the bones 
and gristle in the meat. 

In the carbohydrates we get our heat and maintain 
our energy; they are found in the starch, sugars, oils 
and fats. From the mineral matter w^e get our salts. 

The Proper Diet. 

Age, sex, occupation, climate and season should de- 
termine the diet of one in normal condition. A child 
should not have starchy food until the teeth appear; 
before this there are no ferments developed to digest 
them. A woman will require less food than a man, 
and do the same work. Brain workers want to take 
easily digested foods, such as eggs, fish, etc. The laborer 
needs quantity, and can eat of corned beef, cabbage, 
corn bread and brown bread, and not overtax his diges- 
tion for the reason he is out in the open air. In old age 
the digestive organs become inactive, and the diet must 
again become simple as that of the child. 

Water. 

Water is very important and very necessary, but it 
wants to be free from disease germs. In this matter the 
health officer will keep you posted. Soft water is free 
from salts and lime, and is best for the use in the house- 
hold. Water will freeze at 32° F. heat and will boil at 
212° F. In a high altitude it boils at a lower tempera- 
ture. Distilled water is used for medical purposes be- 
cause it contains no organic impurities. You should 
drink plenty of water between the meals, but do not 
drink while you are eating, for the reason it prevents 
the gastric juices of the mouth from performing their 
proper work in the digesting* of the starchy foods, which 
should begin in the mouth. 



FOOD. o- 

Salts. 

The most common and abundant salt found in the 
body is sodium chloride, or common salt ; it assists diges- 
tion by furnishinf? hydrochloric acid found in the gastric 
juices. 

Starch. 

Starch is largely distributed through the vegetable 
kingdom, and is most abundant in the cereals and pota- 
toes. It is a heat-giver and force-producer, and is a 
very important food. It will not sustain life alone, b-ui: 
must be taken in combination with foods that repair 
and build up the tissues. 

Sugar. 

The use of sugar as a food is the same as starch ; and 
all starch must be converted into sugar before it can be 
assimilated. The different kinds of sugars are cane 
sugar or sucrose, grape sugar or glucose, milk sugar or 
lactose, and fruit sugar or levulose. Cane sugar is ob- 
tained from sugar cane, grape sugar from honey and 
the sweet fruits, milk sugar from the milk of m-ammalia 
and does not ferment. 

Fats and Oils. 

Fats and oils are found in both the animal and vege- 
table kingdom; they contain stearin (solid), olem 
(liquid), pa^mih'n (semi-solid). In the animal fats 
cream and butter are of the first importance as foods, 
for the reason they are more easily assimilated. 

The animal oils are found in cod liver oil and oil 
in the yolk of eg^^s; the vegetable oils are found in the 
olive, cotton-seed, poppy and the cocoanut, and from the 
various nuts. 



4 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Milk. 

COMPOSITION. 

Proteid, 3.4%. Mineral matter, .1%. 

Fat, 4%. Water, 87%. 

Lactose, 4,9%. 

— Chemist. 

From the fact that we find in the milk all that is 
required for the food of the young during the time 
of their most rapid growth, Ave must rate its value as 
a food. We get the most benefit from it taken at regu- 
lar intervals rather than at meals. I do not consider 
it good to give meat and milk at the same time, but 
rather combine it with a starchy food. Hot milk is 
^ood to produce sleep. Iced milk is not good, for the 
reason that the cold reduces the action of the digestive 
organs by lowering them below the normal. In the mJlk 
we find lactose, casein and mineral matter. The water 
varies according to the adulteration„ Milk will become 
sour by the germ in the air attacking the lactose and 
converting it into lactic acid. The cream rises to the 
top of the milk when it stands. For thin cream we stand 
it overnight. For whipping cream it must stand 
twelve hours longer in a very cool place. It is best to 
sterilize the milk to feed a child on, in order to kill all 
germs. Milk is the diet for typhoid and diphtheria, 
and is combined with soda, apollinaris, vichy or seltzer, 
as the physician may prescribe. The doctor will often 
order albuminized milk where much nutriment is re- 
quired. Many laboratories are now furnishing modified 
milk put up by physician's prescription. 



FOOD. 5 

Butter. 

COMPOSITION, 

Fat, 93%. Mineral matter, 95%. 

Water, 5.34%. Casein, .71%. 

— Columbus Chemist. 

Our butter is made from cow's cream. The quality 
of our butter depends upon the manner in which it is 
made and the care of the cows. In order to have well- 
flavored butter the cow should be very clean before milk- 
ing, and should be milked in a clean place. A dirty 
barn will spoil both milk and butter, as they both absorb 
all odors with which they come in contact. Butter should 
never be worked enough to spoil the grain of the butter, 
and should be kept in a cool place and well covered to 
keep out odors, and also to keep it from becoming ran- 
cid. The salt preserves our butter; butter freshly 
churned without salt, such as is served in Paris, France, 
will spoil Yery quickly, and for this reason must be used 
at once. 

Cheese. 

Cheese is made from skimmed milk, and will keep a 
longer or shorter time according to the kind of fermient 
or decomposition that takes place in it. This is called 
the ripening of the cheese. There is the soft cream 
cheese that is not allowed to ripen, but must be used 
at once. 

Cheese, being very rich in proteid matter, is often 
used instead of meat. Prof. Atkinson, in his book on 
"Nutrition," says a pjound of cheese equals a pound of 
beef. Cheese is hard to digest. Some authorities say 
cooking makes it more digestible. A piece of rich cheese 
is often used as a digester. In the skimmed-milk cheeses 
most in use we find the Parmesan, Edam and Gniyere. 



6 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Parmesan, being very hard, is used principally for grat- 
ing. Besides these we have the family of milk and 
cream ciiee&es. 

Fruits. 
Fresh fruits are always wholesome and digestible 
with few exceptions, and should always have a place 
on every table. The care of fruit is very important, 
and should never be kept in a warm room to furnish 
ornamentation for the sideboard. To be in its best 
condition it wants to be firm, cold and fresh. We will 
make an exception to the rule in the small fruits, which 
are sweeter when brought fresli from the garden with 
the sunshine on them,. All fruits coming from market 
should be chilled. Much taste can be displayed in the 
arrangement of fruits for the table. When one can 
obtain them, green leaves are always an addition to the 
dish of fruit, using the foliage of the different fruits 
with kind of fruit you are serving. They are, so to 
speak, the trademark, same as Minerva is always rep- 
resented with the spinning-w^heel. Apples should 
alwaj'-s be rubbed until well polished before serving. 
The red and bright green ones are a great addition 
to a dish of fruit. Grapefruit is served for break- 
fast or as first course for a luncheon. The seeds and 
eore must be removed and the pulp separated from 
the bitter skin. A pair of scissors is the best thing 
to prepare them with. Put sugar in the center, and 
thoroughly chill them before serving. Peaches should 
have the down taken off lightly with a soft cloth when 
they are to be served whole, but they stain the linen 
very badly, and for that reason are better for the com- 
fort of the housekeeper to be peeled before serving, but 
they must be chilled and prared just as they are sent 
to the table. Strawberries usually have to be washied 



FOOD. 



before serving, as they grow so near the ground the}^ 
are apt to be gritty from the sand in the soil from 
which they are taken. Fine large berries are prettier 
for a fruit course served with the hulls on. Always 
wash the berries before capping them in order to pre- 
serve the juice. In the washing the cold water must be 
poured over the berries, and never put them in water 
to lie for an instant, for they are really better if you 
can serve without washing; but if you do feel that you 
must wash them, you should run the water on lightly. 
Never sugar them, but pass the sugar Avith them. Use 
powdered sugar to sweeten fruit of all kinds at the 
table. In dishing berries of all kinds pass the berry 
spoon close to the edge of bowl to keep from crushing 
them. In cooking dried fruits thoroughly w^ash them 
in tepid water, and soak them for two or three hours, 
and cook very slowly in the water in which they were 
soaked. 

Fruits are chiefly vegetable, and their uses are very 
important from the fact that acid», sugar, salts and the 
large quantities of water found in them are refreshing, 
cooling and stimulating. They keep the blood in good 
condition and act as a tonic. In the fruits we find a 
great variety of acids. The different kinds of acids 
we find in the fruits make quite a study, and it is 
really much to the advantage of the good houskeeper 
that she acquaints herself with the different acids in 
the fruits. For instance, she wants to know she can not 
make jelly unless she has som'e fruit that contains pec- 
tose. This acid is found in the currants, quince and 
apple, and a few apples cooked with any fruit that 
is lacking in this acid will enable her to make the jelly. 
Besides the pectic acid that makes the jelly, many of 
our fruits contain starch that during the ripening is 



8 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

converted into glucose. The most nutritious of our 
fruits are the prune, grapes, figs, dates and bananas, 
owing to large amount of sugar and small amount of 
water. 

The orange, apple and lemon are valuable on ac- 
count c-f the potash salts as well as for their citric acid 
in which they abound, especially the lemon and orange. 
Th^ apple is said to be anti-bilious, and is in. the market 
all the year round, and should be used freely in every 
family. I w^ould recommend fresh ripe fraijts served 
at the meal instead of the made desserts from the 
kitchen, for, in my opinion, n"ature has prepared them 
for us by cooking them in the sun better than we can. 

List of our fruits and where they come from: 

Cherry tree, Asia. 

Apricot tree, Armenia. 

Peach tree, Persia. 

Plum tree, Africa. 

Quince tree, Greece. 

Pear tree, Greece. 

Apple tre^f, Greece. 

Lemon tree, Media. 

Orange tree is claimed by Africa and southern China. 

Fig tree, Judea. From the East the fig tree passed 
into Greece, Italy, Gaul, Spain and throughout Europe. 

Raspberry, Rome. 

Strawberry, Greece. 

Mulberry tree, Rome. 

Almond tree, Greece. 

Hazel tree, Greece. 

Pistachio tree, India. 

Chestnut tree, Thessalony. 

Pomegranate, Asia. 

Currant is claimed by both Greece and Italy. 



cooio:ry. 9 

CHAPTER 11. 
COOKERY. 

THE progress of civilization has been accompanied 
by progress in cooking, and in every country we 
now find people cooking. Even if their methods are 
crude, they cook, and the art of cooking is reaching to 
every land. It is no longer considered the thing for the 
young lady to say she can not boil water, but we find 
cooking very infectious with all classes and conditions 
of the people. And in every household the cook is the 
important factor. 

There is a very funny story told of King Alphonso,. 
who was on board a boat for a long sail. The steward 
came running toward him, looking in great distress, 
whereupon the king asked what the trouble was. He 
wrung his hands and said, "The father confessor has 
fallen overboard." "Thank God!" said the king, "it 
was not the cook." 

Food is cooked to make it more digestible and to de- 
velop different flavors, which we find much more pala- 
table. 

The Fire. 

There is not much to be said about the kind of 
fuels we are to use. Gas is the fuel of most households, 
and I find in the country places, where gas can not be 
obtained, they are using gasoline. 

Ways of Cooking. 

The different ways of cooking are boiling, baking, 
roasting, stewing (or simmering), frying. 



10 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

frieasseeing, and use of the cassaroll in the oven. To 
boil is to cook in boiling water, which is 212° F. heat 
(the level of the sea). We simmer at a temperature of 
185° F. heat. Water will boil at a lower temperature 
in a high altitude. Soups, ham, corned beef, tongues 
and the cheap cuts of the meat all want to be simmered 
after they reach the boiling-point. They will be found 
to be much nicer, and the carver will find they cut 
smoother and more evenly, and do not tear as he presses 
on the knife. Milk should always be scalded in the 
double boiler, so as not to harden the casein, and render 
difficult to digest. Cooking over hot water is called 
steaming. Stewing is cooking in a small amount of 
hot water for a long time at a low temperature. Cook- 
ing the cheaper cuts of meat in this way, the fiber and 
connecting tissues are softened and rendered tender 
and very palatable. 

Broiling is one of the most delightful ways of cook- 
ing, and is done by cooking directly over the fire, or 
under it, and in some cases in front of it. Only the 
l)est cuts of meat are to be broiled, as you will find 
the intense heat Avill toughen the fiber of the cheaper 
cuts and make them hard to eat. 

Roasting is cooking by a hot fire in an oven 
or before the fire on the spit, as in the olden 
times. In roasting a piece of meat, it wants to 
be cut from the best part of the animal, for the 
same reason that the broiling piece does; and in 
roasting beef, lamb and mutton it is best to baste with 
fat entirely, also for loin of pork, while with veal 
you should use water and butter; not too much water 
at a time, but keep renewing it as it cool^ away. Do- 
mestic fowls are treated the same as veal. 

Frying is cooking by immersion in deep fat, raised 



COOKERY. 11 

to a temperature of from 350° to 500° F. heat. For 
this purpose we use lard, beef dripping and lard mixed, 
cottolene, eoto-suet or olive oil; this is left to the taste 
of the cook. Your fat wants to be at the rig'ht tempera- 
ture to keep the food from absorbing the fat. 

Rules for testing fat: 1. When the fat begins to 
smoke, drop in a piece of bread free from crust, and if 
while you count forty it is a golden brown, it is then 
right to cook oysters and croquettes. 2. You want to 
be able to count sixty (or one minute), counting as the 
clock ticks, for cooking pan-fish, doughnuts and fritter-;^. 

Sauteing is frying in a small quantity of fat. Food 
cooked in this way is much harder to digest than that 
cooked in the deep fat, and for this method of cooking 
we use the fr>dng-pan. 

Braising is cooking in a covered vessel with a low 
degree of heat. The ''Aladdin Lamp" is a fine ex- 
ample of slow cooking, and was invented by Prof. At- 
kinson, of Boston. This method of cooking is also 
shown in the casserole of the present day. In braising 
meat of any kind it gives it a much finer flavor if you 
saute it on all sides until it is well browned; then it 
will hold its juices better, and the brown on meat gives 
a good color and flavor. 

Fricasseeing is sauteing and serving tender meat or 
fowl with a sauce. There are two kinds of fricasseeing — 
one white, the other brown. The white one we plact- 
in the saucepan in boiling water, and cook slowly until 
tender. The brown one is browned in butter, oil or 
lard until brown, and placed in saucepan and brown 
sauce poured over it and cooked until tender at the 
simmering point. 



12 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Measuring Ingredients. 

Much of the success in cooking depends upon proper 
and correct measuring. Powdered confectioners' sugar 
and granulated sugar should be sifted before measuring. 
Baking powder should always be well stirred to lighten 
it before measuring. A cupful is a half pint, and is 
measured level. Dip the ingredient up with a spoon 
and level with a knife. The tablespoon and teaspoon 
are measured level in all the best schools of cookery, 
and will perhaps give you the best results. There are 
measure-spoons now that give the table, tea, dessert, 
halfs and quarters, and are very useful and time-saving. 

In measuring, where sugar, flour, butter and water 
or milk are used, measure in the order given in recipes, 
and the one cup will do for all. 

To Combine Ingredients. 

The manner of combining is next in importance to 
correct measuring. There are three ways to be con- 
sidered — ^beating, stirring and folding. Beating is to 
turn over and over, bringing the bottom to the top with 
each stroke, and drawing in plenty of cold air, w^hich 
makes batters of all kinds light when they come in 
contact with hot air of the oven. Stirring is a circu- 
lar motion, and is good for blending material. Folding 
is used for the whites of eggs, flour, etc. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 13 



CHAPTER III. 

BREAD AND BREAD=MAKING. 

"Bread is the staff of life, and good bread and butter a 
gold-headed cane." 

THE study of bread-making is very important in the 
family diet, and well deserves the attention of 
every housekeeper. With the present ingredients which 
we have to make the good and perfect loaf, there is no 
excuse for finding the poor one in any household. We 
make bread from flour of wheat ^nd other cereals, with 
the addition of water, milk and ferment. In the wheat 
we find gluten in right proportions to make the spongy 
loaf. The entire wheat flour is the most wholesome and 
sustaining to the body, for in that we have all the 
grain, with only the outside husk removed. In the 
bran coats we find the mineral matter, in the gluten 
the proteid matter and fat, and in the center of the 
grain the starch. We distinguish the wheat as white 
and liard or red and soft. The white is the winter 
wheat and lies in the ground all winter, and the red 
is sown in the spring and grown quickly. From the 
winter wheat we make the pastry flour, and from the 
spring the bread flour. 

Yeast. 

We will next consider the yeast. It is a plant of 
fungous growth, and consists of spores or germs found 
floating in the air. These spores grow very rapidly 
under favorable conditions, and produce the ferment 
which we need to lighten the loaf. Warm, moist air 



14 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

gives US the best conditions to hasten the growth of the 
yeast plant. There are three kinds of fermentations 
which we consider — alcoholic, acetic and lactic. In the 
bread we find the alcoliolic. If the ferment continues 
too long, we have the acetic. The lactic ferment is that 
which takes place when the milk sours. The acid we 
get in the sour milk is very good for the stomach, and 
for this reason doctors recommend the drinking of but- 
termilk for many of their patients. We scarcely con- 
sider any yeast now but the compressed, except in the 
country, where it can not be obtained. In that case we 
have to resort to the dry yeast, or what is known as 
salt rising. Be sure your yeast is perfectly fresh, which 
you can determine by^ the light color with absence of 
any dark streaks. The temperature best suited for the 
growth of the yeast plant is from 68° F. to 70° F., in 
a warm, moist air. The yeast plant is killed at 212° F., 
and the life of the plant is entirely suspended at 32° 
F., but not entirely destroyed, and with warmth and 
air can again be started. 

Baking of Bread. 

We bake bread to kill the ferment, to make diges- 
tible the starch, to drive off the alcohol and carbon diox- 
ide, and to form the brown, nicely flavored caromel 
crust. We place bread in a hot oven, and lower the 
heat as necessary as the process of baking goes on; for 
the heat must reach the center of the loaf and cook it, 
in order that the loaf may be healthy and digestible. 
Always bake your loaves of bread in small pans holding 
only the one loaf. The loaf should rise for ten or 
twelve minutes before it begins to brown. Biscuit want 
a hot oven, and will bake in twelve or fifteen minutes, 
■according to the thickness of the biscuit. They should 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 15 

never be too thick. All bread wants to be thin, with 
nice crust." If a tender crust is desired, brush the top 
with butter a few moments before removing from the 
oven. The best bread-box is a stone jar with stone cover, 
and cloths should not be wrapped around bread, as 
the bread will taste of cloth always. 

Quick Bread. 

In the quick breads we get our ferment from the 
baking-powder we use, or by beating in a great deal of 
cold air, which causes the bread to lighten when placed 
in the hot oven. The object in making the bread light 
and porous is to have it easily acted upon by the diges- 
tive ferment with whic"h it comes in contact, first in the 
mouth, then in the stomach. The starchy foods want to 
stay a long time in the mouth and be well chewed, to 
mix them well with the saliva, as digestion should be- 
gin in the mouth, a fact that makes itself manifest by 
the sweet taste. When we put a piece of bread in the 
mouth and chew it for a long time, we taste the sugar; 
this shows the digestion has begun. 

Acids found in molasses, sour milk and lemon juice 
will liberate gas in soda, and this lightens the dough 
and causes it to become porous. 

Water Bread. 

2 cups boiling water. 2 level teaspoons salt. 

1 tablespoon each lard or butter. 1 yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sngar. %, cnp warm water. 

Flour to make a dough that you knead without its 
sticking to the hands or board. 

Put your butter or lard, sugar and salt in the boiling 
water, in bread mixer or large bowl. Stir until sugar 
is dissolved and lard and butter melted, then beat in 



IG SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

three cups of flour, ana beat well until the cells in th3 
dough are well filled with air. Add dissolved yeast cakes, 
then enough flour to make the dough stiff to be handled. 
Care must be taken not to get too much flour. It is hard 
to give the exact amount of flour, as the quantity will 
depend upon the kind of flour used. Flour made from 
the spring wheat is the best for the bread, for the reason 
there is more gluten in it than we flnd in the pastry 
flour. Turn your dough on a well-floured board, knead 
until it becomes smooth and elastic, and well filled with 
bubbles under the surface. When it is ready to be 
returned to a well-buttered bowl large enough to allow it 
to double its bulk, it is then ready to be shaped and put 
into small buttered bread-pans. Place to rise in a tem- 
perature of from 68° F. to 70° F., until it has doubled 
its bulk, when you place it in a hot oven and bake, re- 
ducing the heat, if necessary, to keep it from burning. 
A small, brick-shaped loaf will require thirty minutes 
to bake if the heat in the oven is just right. 

It is much better to make your bread up in the morn- 
ing, and put more yeast to lighten it. And do not think 
the loaf will taste of the yeast; it will not, for experi- 
ence and the scientist have shown us that it takes just 
so much yeast to lift the loaf, and if we do not put it 
in, it has to take the time to gather the spores from the 
air with the food which w^e have in our mixture. So I 
can safely say we have quicker and sweeter bread by 
using plenty of yeast. With the cake of the compressed 
yeast to each pint of wetting (whether milk or water), 
the bread will be lifted twice; then allow it to bake 
three hours. The result will be the sweet,, delicious loaf 
without the chance of souring. 

When the bread is well baked, turn on the side on a 
wire bread-rack, to cool before putting in the bread- 



BREAD AND BREAD-M.VKING. 17 

box, or, better, the stone jar with the stone cover. Do 
not >\Tap bread in cloths when putting it away, as it 
will taste of the cloth. 

Milk Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup water. 1 yeast cake. 

Dissolve yeast in )>^ cup lukewarm water. 

We scald the milk to kill the lactic germ. Add flour 
to make a dough that you can handle when turned onto 
a well-floured board, using care not to add too much, 
flour. Prepare, raise and bake same as the water bread,, 
as the process of the kneading, raising and baking is 
the same in all breads made from yeast. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 
% cup molasses. 1 yeast cake. 

2 cups white flour. 34 cup lukewarm water 

Balance of flour entire wheat. to dissolve yeast in. 

Entire wheat bread can be made in a thick drop 
batter, or enough flour added to knead and shape into 
loaves, just as you like. We raise the same as white 
bread by letting it double its bulk in the mixing-bowl, 
then shaping into loaves and placing in greased pans, 
filling them half full. Cover, let rise again to double 
its bulk, and bake in hot oven. 

Parker House Rolls. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 whole &gg well beaten. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 yeast cake. 

Flour. M *^^P 1 tike warm water. 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk. When cool 
enough the yeast cake is dissolved in the half cup luke- 



18 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

warm water, then enough flour to make drop batter. 
Beat thoroughly and turn onto a well-floured board 
while it is quite soft, and knead thoroughly, adding what 
flour is necessary to be able to handle it. (It wants to 
be very soft.) Let it lighten in well-buttered bowl with 
the dough buttered well on top so it will not crust until 
double its bulk, then turn onto well-floured board and 
shape into small balls the size of a walnut, and press 
in the center of ball butter and fold over two-thirds. 
Press firmly together. Place in shallow pan, allowing 
plenty of space between for the lightening of rolls. 
They do not want to touch in baking. Butter well on 
top, let them get very light, and bake then in hot oven 
from twelve to fifteen minutes. The rising does not 
want to be hastened too much or they will lose their 
shape. This mixture will make any kind of rolls you de- 
sire, the name depending on the shape you mold them 
into before the last lightening. 

Bread Sticks. 

1 cup scalded milk. Whites of 2 eggs. 

y^ cup butter. 1 yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % teaspoon salt. 
4 cups flour. 

Knead, let rise, shape and let rise again. Put into 
hot oven, and reduce the heat that the sticks may be 
dry and crisp. 

Graham Bread. 

^Yz cups scalded milk. 2 yeast cakes in 

yi cup molasses i^ cup warm water. 

(Orleans is best). 3 cups white flour. 

1 teaspoon salt (full). 3 cups Graham flour 

Prepare and bake same as entire wheat. Sift the 
Graham flour and discard bran that remains in the 
sieve, or return to the flour and use it if desired. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 19 

Boston Brown Bread. 

1 cup rye meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup granulated corn meal. % teaspoon soda. 

1 cup Graham flour. % cup molasses. 

2 cups sour milk or 1% cups sweet milk. 
1 egg. 

Mix all the dry ingredients, and stir well. Add 
molasses and milk, stir and beat well. Turn into well- 
buttered mould, and steam from three and a. half to four 
hours. You can use one pound baking-powder tins to 
steam this in if you wish, to use it for sandwiches. In 
steaming, you want to place your mould in the kettle 
of boiling water on a trivet and allow the water to come 
half way up the mould. Cover closely and see the water 
is renewed when it boils away. 

Rye Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 yeast cake in J^ cup 

2 tablespoons lard or butter. lukewarm water. 
}i cup brown sugar. 3 cups white flour. 
Enough rye meal to make the dough stiff enough to knead. 

Knead thoroughly, let rise, shape in loaves, rise 
again, and bake 

Sweet Rusks. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 whole Qgg. 

% cup butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

% cup sugar. 2 yeast cakes in yi cup water. 

Enough flour to make soft dough. 

Raise twice, shape in little round rolls after the 
first raising, and place in shallow buttered pans, some 
distance apart, and let them get very light before you 
put them to bake. When nearly done, brush with white 
of Q^g with tablespoon of 'water added to it. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cool on wire bread-rest. 



20 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

German Coffee Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 egg. 

}£ cup butter. 1 yeast cake (dissolved). 

y^ cup sugar. }4 cup raisins stoned and cut into pieces. 

Flour enough to make a stiff batter, and add the raisins. 

Cover and let rise; spread on well-buttered pan; 
let rise again Before baking brush with egg, and cover 
with three level tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
sugar one teaspoon cinnamon. Bake in oven not too 
hot. When done, sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Swedish Bread. 

2 cups scalded milk. }4 cup sugar. 

1 yeast cake. 1 egg well beaten. 

1^ cup melted ^butter. 3^ cup almonds 

}4 teaspoon salt. blanched and chopped. 

Enough flour to make a soft dough. 

To the scalded milk add the butter, sugar and salt, 
and enough flour to make a drop batter. When cool, 
add the yeast cake that has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water. Cover and let rise; when light, 
add enough more flour that you can knead, being care- 
ful not to get the dough too stiff. Toss on a floured 
board, and knead until well covered with blisters, then 
let it rise the second time. Turn on an unfloured board, 
and roll very thin. Spread with melted butter, and 
sprinkle with sugar and the blanched and chopped al- 
monds, or cinnamon, if preferred. Then, with a thin 
knife, loosen from the board and roll up same as jelly 
roll; cut piece from each end and form ring, place on a 
buttered sheet, and with scissors cut into pieces half- 
inch thick, letting them lie close together; lighten again 
and bake in moderate oven. Just before putting in the 
oven you can brush with one egg diluted with one table- 
spoon of cold water. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 21 

Hot Cross Buns. 

1 cup scalded milk. % teaspoon salt. 

3^ cup sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 yeast cake dissolved 1 Qgg. 

in lukewarm water. 3^ cup each currants and 

2 tablespoons butter. raisins stoned and cut fine. 

3 cups flour. 

To the scalded milk add the butter, sugar and salt. 
"When cool enough, add the yeast cake. Mix cinnamon 
"v^ith the flour, and add next, then the well-beaten Qgg. 
When thoroughly mixed, add the raisins and currants; 
let it stand until very light, then shape in biscuit form, 
and put in well-buttered pan one inch apart. Brush 
over with beaSten egg, and bake fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Then, with frosting, make a cross on top of each 
bun. 

Yeast Muffins. 

13^ cups scalded milk. 1 yeast cake. 

% teaspoon salt. 3>^ cups flour. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

3 tablespoons butter. 

To your hot milk add butter, salt and sugar. When 
cool enough, add the yeast cake dissolved in one-third 
cup lukewarm water, then the flour and the Q^g well 
beaten. Let it rise to double its bulk. Fill buttered 
muffin-rings half full ; let rise until rings are full. Bake 
twenty-five or thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve at 
once. 

Rice Muffins. 

Proceed the same as for raised yeast muffins, using 
three cups flour and one cup boiled rice. Or, if pre- 
ferred, you can use a cup of hominy fresh boiled, being 
careful that the hominy is boiled quite dry, or you can 
add a little m,ore flour. 



22 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Dry Toast. 

Cut bread in thin slices about one-fourth inch thick. 
Place on broiler rack, light gas, and toast to a delicate 
brown without burning. If the crusts have not been 
removed, pound them on board to soften them. Pile 
them on hot plate and serve at once. They can be bu1> 
tered at table or before nist as you like. 

Water Toast. 

Water toast is made by dipping slices of dry toast 
in boiling salted water very quickly and spread with 
butter. Only the best butter is good for toast 

Milk Toast. 

2 cups scalded milk. % teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. 8 slices toast. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Mix butter and flour, and stir in the hot milk, add- 
ing some of the milk to the bowl wdth the butter and 
flour before trying to add it to the hot milk. Cook in 
double boiler fifteen minutes. Dip the slices of toast 
into the sauce, and place on serving-dish, and pour re- 
mainder of sauce over and serve quickly. 

Brown Bread Toast. 

Brown bread toast is made in the same way, using 
slices of brown bread instead of white bread. 

Cream Toast. 

Proceed same as for milk toast, using cream instead 
of milk, and use no butter. The thin cream is the best 
for making toast. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 23 

Toast for Garnishing. 

Cut your pieces of bread in any shape desired and 
dip in melted butter, and toast. Rounds with the cen- 
ters removed, buttered and toasted, or fried in deep fat, 
are called croustards. Half-inch squares browned or 
fried are called croutons, and are used for cream soups, 
top of spinach, etc. 

Quick hot bread used for breakfast, luncheon, etc., 
is made with baking"-powder for the ferment, and made 
into batter that will pour or drop, and soft doughs, 
easily moulded and shaped with the hand or small 
cutters. 

Baking=powder Biscuit. 

2 tablespoons lard or butter. 2 cups flour. 

4 level teaspoons baking-powder. 1 cup milk or enough to 

1 teaspoon salt. make a very soft dough. 

Mix dry ingredients. Add the lard or butter. Chop 
in with knife or rub in with the back of a wooden spoon. 
Add milk slowly. Toss on well-floured board, roll 
lightly to half inch in thickness, and shape with biscuit- 
cutter. Place on buttered pan and bake in hot oven 
from twelve to fifteen minutes, according to oven, as 
some bake much quicker than others. 

Drop Biscuit. 

Use the recipe for baking-powder biscuit, making it 
softer, so that you can drop it from the spoon on but- 
tered pan. 

Roly-poly Biscuit. 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Y2, teaspoon salt. Y^, cup stoned raisins. 

3^ teaspoon cinnamon. 2 tablespoons citron. 



24 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Mix same as baking-powder biscuit. Toss on well- 
floured board, and roll to fourth-inch in thickness. 
Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with the fruit, 
sugar and cinnamon. Roll same as jelly roll, and cut 
into pieces half-inch in thickness. Place on buttered 
pan and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, 

One=egg Muffins. 

3 cups flour. 1}^ cup milk. 

4 level teaspoons baking-jxjwder. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons melted butter. 1 egg, well beaten. 

Mix dry ingredients. Well sift or stir as you please. 
Add gradually the milk, then the melted butter, then 
the egg beaten until quite light. Fill buttered muffin 
tins and bake in hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
This W'ill make one dozen muffins. 

Rice Muffins. 

2 full cups flour. 1 cup milk. 

3^ cup cooked rice. 1 egg. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

}^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder. Add half 
milk to rice, other half to dry ingredients and your well- 
beaten egg. Add rice and melted butter, beat thor- 
oughly, and bake in well-buttered muffin-tins until a 
nice brown. 

Berry Muffins. 

2 tablespoons butter (rounding). 2^2 cups flour, 

4 level teaspoons baking-powder. i^ cup sugar. 
1 egg. 1 cup berries. 1 cup milk. 

Cream the butter, and add sugar and egg well 
beaten. Mix baking-powder with flour and salt. Re- 
serve half cup of the flour to mix with berries, and 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 25 

added last. Add remainder of the flour with the milk 
to the creamed sugar, butter and egg*. 

Corn=meal Muffins. 

2 cups corn-meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup white flour. 1 cup milk. 
4 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

Pour enough boiling water over the meal to burst the 
starch grains, beat the eggs light, put with the milk, 
add the flour to the meal, first mixing the baking- 
powder and salt Avith the flour. Then add the eggs 
and milk, beat well, and bake in gem pan in hot oven. 

Corn Egg Bread. 

1 cup white flour. 1 tablespoon butter (melted). 

2 cups corn-meal (granulated). 2 eggs, beaten very light 
1 teaspoon salt. without separating. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 1% cups milk. 

]\lix all the dry ingredients. Add eggs to milk, pour 
on and beat thoroughly. Add the melted butter, put 
into hot, Avell-buttered square tin pan wdth low sides, 
so that bread will brown on top. Bread does not brown 
in deep pans. 

Sally Lunn. 

2 cups flour. 3 Qgga, beaten separately. 

1 cup milk. 1 level tablespoon butter, melted. 
3^ teaspoon salt. 4 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Milk and egg yolks, 
and add to first. Beat well, then put in the beaten 
whites. Bake in cake tins well buttered. 

Brioche. 

% pound butter. 7 eggs. 

^-2 teaspoon salt. 1 quart flour. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 2 cakes compressed yeast. 

y^ cup water. 



26 SCIENTIFIC COOKING 

Dissolve the yeast in the water, then add enough 
of the flour to make a soft ball of paste. Drop the 
ball into the pan of warm water, cover, and set in warm, 
place to raise. Put the rest of the flour on a platter, 
make a well in the center; into this put the butter, salt, 
sugar and four eggs. Break the eggs in whole. Have 
the butter rather soft. AVork them together with the 
hand, gradually incorporating the flour. Add two more 
eggs, one at a time. Work and beat with the hand 
until it loses its stickiness, which will take some time. 
AVhen the leaven is quite light, lift it out of the water 
with a skimmer, and place it with the dough. Work 
them together, add one more egg (last of the seven), 
and beat it a long time, using the hand. The longer 
it is beaten, the finer the grain of the paste will be. 
Put the paste in buttered bowl, cover, and let it rise 
to double its bulk, then beat it down and place on ice 
for twelve or twenty-four hours. Take it from the ice 
and make it into rolls or buns, and bake in turk's-head 
pan, and when done pour cup of sherry wine on while it 
is hot, and dip the wine up until cake absorbs it alL 

Pop=overs. 

1 CTip flour. 1 cup milk. 

% teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

Mix flour with salt, pour on the milk slowly until 
a smooth batter is made, then break in the egg% and 
with the Dover beater beat very rapidly for two or 
three minutes, and turn into muffin pans buttered and 
hot, with piece of butter size of pea in each pan. 

Fadges. 

1 cup entire wheat flour. 1 cup cold water. 

2 eggs. 

Add water gradually to flour, and with Dover egg- 
beater beat until very light. Bake same as pop-overs. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 27 

Beaten Biscuit. 

1 pint flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

^ cup lard. Milk and water in eqnal quanti- 

ties to make a rather stiff dough. 

Mix salt with flour. Chop in lard with knife. Tuom. 
on floured board, and beat with rolling-pin or wooden 
mallet until covered with blisters, folding all the while 
to enclose all the cold air you can. Roll to one-third 
inch in thickness and cut with small cutter. Prick with 
fork. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

Entire Wheat Qriddle=cakes. 

1 cup entire wheat flour. 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 cup white flour. 2 eggs. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 11^ cups milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Mix dry ingredients well together. Beat eggs, add 
milk to eggs, and pour onto the dry mixture, slowly 
beating all the while to keep from having lumps form, 
which it will do if you pour the milk all on at once, 
or try to put the flour into the milk. After all is well 
mixed, beat thoroughly and bake on well-greased hot 
griddle. When puffed and full of bubbles, turn, and 
cook the other side. Never turn your cakes hut once. 

Flannel Cakes. 

2 cups flour. 1}^ cups milk. 

}/2 teaspoon salt- 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk to yolks of eggs, and 
mix all together. When a smooth batter has been made, 
beat well, then fold in the whites beaten stiff and dry. 



28 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Sour=inilk Cakes. 

2 cnps flour. 13^ cups sour milk. 
^2 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 teaspoon baking-powder. 1 Qgg. 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

Mix same as for the above cakes. 

Corn Griddle=cakes, 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup coarse cornmeal. 1 egg. 

3 teaspoons baking-powder. 1 cup boiling water. 
1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 cup milk. 

Scald meal with the boiling water, add dry ingre- 
dients, then milk and egg. Bake on hot griddle. 

Rice Griddle=cakes. 

11^ cups milk. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 cup boiled rice. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Pour milk over rice, add salt and baking-powder 
to flour, add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon color, 
then the melted butter, then flour, and, last, the well- 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Bread Cakes. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. l^o cups milk, 

4 teaspoons baking-powder, 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 cup flour. 

Add milk and butter to crumbs, soaked until crumbs 
are soft, add eggs, then flour, salt and baking-powder 
well mixed. Bake same as other griddle-cakes. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 29 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 yeast cake. 

1 teaspoon salt. I3 cup warm water. 

2 cups buckwheat flour. }^ teaspoon soda. 

1 tablespoon molasses or brown sugar. 

Add molasses and salt to the milk, and when cool 
enough add half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, and the buckwheat to make rather a stiff batter. 
Let it rise overnight. In the morning beat down well, 
and add half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm 
water. (Do not have the water too hot.) Cook same 
as any griddle-cake, being careful not to turn but once. 

Waffles. 

2 cups flour. 1 tablespoon melted lard. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

13^ cups milk. 3 teaspoons baking-powder (level.) 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk gradually, yolks of 
eggs well beaten, the melted lard, and, last, the whites 
beaten stiff and folded in. 

The waffle iron should fit closely, be very hot, and 
well greased with good fresh lard. Put one tablespoon- 
ful of the batter in each compartment of the hot iron, 
and the mixture w^ill then spread to fill the iron. If 
your iron is sufficiently heated, you should be able to 
turn at once. Serve with maple molasses, honey, or 
any sweet desired. 

Rice Waffles. 

2 cups flour. 4 tablespoons baking-ix)wder. 
y^ cup cooked rice. J2 teaspoon salt. 

1% cups milk. 1 tablesijoon melted lard. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 

]\Iix dry ingredients, work in rice with back of 
wooden spoon or the tips of fingers, add milk, yolks of 



30 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

egg's well beaten, and melted lard; whites beaten stiff. 
Cook same as Avaffles. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

1 cup scalded milk. 3 tablespoons butter (level). 

]/2, yeast cake. 1 cup sugar. 

3^ cup lukewarm water. 2 eggs. 

Nutm.eg or cinnamon to flavor. 1 teaspoon salt. 
Flour to make a stiff batter. 

To the scalded milk add the salt, sugar and butter; 
when cool, add the j-east cake dissolved in water. Then 
the flour, and let it rise to double its bulk; if too soft 
to handle, add more flour. Turn on well-floured board 
and roll to three-quarter inch in thickness. Shape with 
cutter, lay on floured board and let rise again. Fry in 
deep fat, drain on paper. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

Doughnuts. 

114 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

3 tablespoons butter 4 teaspoons baking-powder. 

3 eggs. }'2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon salt. Flour to roll. 

Cream butter and add sugar graduall3^ Beat eggs 
until light without separating, then flour enough to 
make a dough you can turn on a well-floured board and 
handle, using about one-third of the mixture at a time. 
Shape with doughnut cutter, and fry in deep fat, which 
must be kept of uniform temperature. (Rule for testing 
fat is forty seconds for cooked material such as cro- 
quettes, oysters, etc., and sixty seconds for doughnuts 
and any uncooked foods.) The doughnut wants to 
come quickly to the top brown, be turned, and brown 
on the other side. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 31 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

2 cups flour. 3 tablespoons butter. 

3^ teaspoon salt. Milk to make a soft dough. 

4 tablespoons baking-powder (level). 

Mix dry ingredients, chop in butter, add milk. Toss 
on well-floured board, divide in halves, pat and shape 
to size of square cake tin that has been well buttered. 
Brush first layer with one tablespoon melted butter, 
shape second half and lay lightly on the buttered half. 
Brush top with milk, place in oven and bake a golden 
brown. 

To Prepare the Berries. 

Wash one quart of berries and stem them after they 
drain. With a small knife slice the berries in thin slices 
and sprinkle with one pint of sugar; let them stand 
for one hour. When your crust is done, turn on cloth 
and remove the bottom piece and place on a hot platter 
that j^ou can send to table to serve from. Use a ladle 
with holes in it and drain the juice from the berries 
as you dip them up. Spread berries on bottom layer 
of cake on platter and place top layer on. Put in 
warming oven until ready to serve. 

Sauce for Shortcake. 

^ cup butter. 2 cups boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Juice from berries. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, mixed with the 
cornstarch. Add the boiling water. Place on the fire 
and cook for five minutes, stirring all the while after 
it begins to boil. Remove from the fire, add the juice 
from the berries and the tablespoon of lemon juice, and 
send to table to be poured over shortcake as it is 
served. 



32 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

This same rule is used to make shortcake from any 
of the small fruits and berries, also for apricot, peach, 
etc. Cherries are cooked for ten minutes, then the 
cherries dipped out and juice reserved for sauce. The 
peach wants to be ripe and very soft. Lay in su»gar 
for one hour, and dip out same as the strawberry. Pine- 
apple is good. 

I never use cake dough for making fruit shortcake. 
The crisp crust without the sugar is the best. 



CEREALS. 33 

CHAPTER IV. 

CEREALS. 

"We cultivate literature on a little oatmeal." — Sidney Smith. 

OUR cereals include wheat, oats, rye, barley, corn 
and rice. The wheat is probably used most for 
the reason it is more easily digested than the others, 
excepting rice. 

From the wheat flour we get our macaroni, spaghetti 
and vermicelli, with various kinds of pastes from Italy. 
Our best macaroni comes from Italy, although our own 
countr}^ manufactures it to some extent. We find the 
imported best for the reason that the Italian wheat is 
richer in glutine than what we produce, which is due 
to the difference in climate. 

The cereals want always to be cooked in double 
boiler, to avoid burning. The oat cereals want thirty 
minutes' cooking, and longer does not hurt. The coarse 
oat meal, which we seldom get any more, will require 
three hours. 

Wheat cereals want twenty minutes' cooking, using 
one and three-quarter cups water to the cup of cereal. 
Rice wants to be boiled one hour. The amount of wet- 
ting depends on the age of the rice. Corn meal will re- 
quire from two and a half to three hours' cooking; the 
coarse hominy, from four to five hours; fine hominy, 
one hour. 

Corn-meal mush left over can be shaped in some- 
thing to prevent crusting, and fried for breakfast ; but, 
in my opinion, the best fried mush is made quickly and 
fried at onoe in hot fat. Dip up by the spoonful and 



34 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

drop m by pushing off with a knife. The fat will re- 
quire to have a little butter in it to make the mush, 
brown. Serve with hot syrup made of brown sugar. 

Rice with Cheese. 

1 cup cooked rice. Y^ pound cream, cheese. 

Cayenne pepper. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Milk. 

Rissoto a la Creole. 

1 cup rice. 3 cups brown stock. 

3^ cup butter. 1 cup strained tomato. 

Melt and heat butter in frying-pan, put rice in and 
stir until well browned. Add stock and strained tomato^ 
and cook in double boiler until soft. Turn on serving- 
dish and serve with sauce made with: 

1 small onion. 3^ cup mushrooms. 

1 green pepper (shredded). 3 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 cup strained tomatoes. 

3 tablespoons sherry wine. Salt to taste. 

Cook onion and pepper in butter, add tomatoes and 
mushrooms, cook five minutes, remove from fire, pour 
in sauce-boat, add sherry and serve on rice at table. 

Macaroni w^ith Cheese 

Put one layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking- 
dish, and sprinkle with grated cheese. Repeat, pour 
over all a thin white sauce, and sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs. Bake twenty minutes, or until nicely browned. 

Boiled Macaroni. 

Cook macaroni thirty-five minutes in boiling salted 
water, with a little cayenne pepper. Always stir with 
a fork to keep from sticking. This is served with grated 
Parmesan cheese and thin cream sauce as an entree. 



CEREALS. 35 

Macaroni wants always to have cold water poured 
aver it when soft, to keep the pieces from adhering to 
each other. 

Spaghetti a Tltalienne. 

3^ package spaghetti. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 onion. 1 cujj mushrooms. 

3^ pound grated cream cheese. 1}^ cups strained tomatoes. 

1 green pepper (shredded). 4 tablespoons butter. 

Boil spaghetti in plenty of salted water until tender. 
Drain and pour on- cold water to prevent sticking. 
Cook onion, pepper, flour and mushrooms in butter for 
a few moments, and add strained tomato. Put into a 
well-buttered baking-dish a layer of the boiled spaghetti 
and a layer of the Italian sauce and grated cheese. 
Repeat, having layer of cheese for top. Bake until 
brown. One-fourth cup wine is good put over top just 
as you send it to table. 

Macaroni and spaghetti can either be cooked by any 
of the above rules. They are made from the same 
paste, only different-sized pipes. 



36 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER V. 
SOUPS. 

SOUPS are divided into two classes — the "fat" and 
"lean." The French class them as soups made 
with stock and those made without. 

Brown Stock — Made from beef bones and fat. 

White Stock — Made from chicken or veal. 

Bouillon — Made from lean beef seasoned and cleared. 

Consomme — ^Made from beef, veal and fowd, and 
very highly seasoned wdth vegetables, spices and sweet 
herbs, and always cleared. 

Lamb Broth — Made from mutton delicately seasoned. 

Cream Soups — Made from vegetables or fish, with 
seasonings and cream. 

Purees — ]\Iade from vegetables or fish forced through 
a strainer and put in the soup. Purees are thicker than 
cream soups. Sometimes we use white stock in making 
them. 

Bisques — Generally made from shell-fish, milk and 
seasonings, and served with fish dice in them. 

A French cook-book will give you more than a 
hundred kinds of soups, each taking its name from 
some ingredient that is put into it or from some dis- 
tinguished person to whom it was served first. 

Soup Stock. 

6 pounds from middle cut A bouquet of parsley, sweet 

of shin. marjoram and thyme. 

1 carrot. 1 turnip. 

1 stick of celery. 1 onion. 

34 bay leaf. i^ teaspoon peppercorns. 

3 cloves. 1 tablespoon salt. 

Water to cover one inch above the meat. 



SOUPS. 37 

Wipe the beef and cut the lean meat from the bone. 
Brown one-third of the meat in some butter or the 
marrow from the bone. Put the remaining two-thirds 
with the bones in soup-kettle, add water and salt, and 
bring very slowly to the boiling-point. Cover closely 
and cook for from four to five hoars, allowing it to only 
bubble under the surface. Add vegetables and season- 
ing the last hour of cooking, and the spices the last ten 
minutes. Spices cooked too long lose their fresh flavor*. 
Strain through sieve into agate or stone ware, and cool 
quickly uncovered. Then, as soon as the fat hardens 
on the top, we remove it and clear the stock. 

To Clear Soup Stock. 

Remove fat from stock and put stock in sauce-pan. 
Allow white and shell of one egg to each quart of stock. 
Heat them slightly and mix well with spoon, place on 
the fire and stir constantly until the boiling-point is 
reached. Boil for two or three minutes and set back 
where it keeps hot, but does not boil for ten or twenty 
minutes. Strain through a double of cheese-cloth rest- 
ing on a strainer. It is then ready to be seasoned more, 
if necessar}^-, and the addition of any vegetable or paste 
you wish to put to it. It will take its name from the 
solid you add to it, the stock being the foundation of 
all soups which come under the name of stock or fat 
soups. 

The Way We Bind Soups. 

Cream soui^s and purees will separate when the^' 
stand, unless they are bound together with flour and 
butter. To do this we use equal quantities of butter 
and flour, according to the amount of soup we are mak- 
ing. Put the butter in saucepan, and when it bubbles 



38 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

•add flour, then some o'f the hot soup., and stir until 
smooth; then turn slowly into your soup in double 
boiler, and keep hot until serving-time. Your soups 
are a stimulant for the stomach, and should always he 
served hot. This especially should be the rule for the 
clear soups and bouillons. A cream soup or puree, with 
salad and bread and butter, makes a meal. 

Tomato Bouillon. 

1 quart tomatoes. 1 pint water. 

1 tablespoon minced onion. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 
4 cloves. 6 peppercorns. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon lean ham. 

Salt to taste. 

Cook all together for ten minutes, strain through 
sieve, cool, and clear with whites and shells of two eggs, 
same as any soup stock. Heat very hot and serve in 
cups. 

Tomato Bouillon with Oysters. 

To the above recipe add one pint of oysters that 
have been parboiled in their own liquor, and drained 
on sieve for a few moments. 

Bouillon. 

5 pounds lean beef Carrot] 

from middle of round. Turnip I }^ cup each, 
2 pounds bone, cut up well. Onion j cut fine. 

1 teaspoon peppercorns. Celery j 

1 tablespoon salt. 

Water to cover all about 1 inch above meat and bones, 

meat being cut and placed in compact. 

Brown one-third of the meat in some butter or fat 
from marrowbone. Put the browned meat and bones 
in the kettle with the other two-thirds of meat. Bring 



SOUPS. 39 

to the boilings-point slowly, and remove to slow fire, 
where it keeps at boiling-point for four hours, adding 
seasoning and vegetables the last hour of cooking. 
Strain, cool and clear. Serve hot in bouillon cups. 

White Stock. 

3 pounds knuckle of veal. 2 stalks celery. 
1 pound lean beef. 1 dozen peppercorns. 

1 onion. 1^ bay leaf. 

1 small carrot. 2 sprigs thyme. 

2 cloves (pinch out end). 

Wipe meat, cut from bone in small pieces, cut beef 
in pieces, and put in soup-kettle; cover with cold water, 
add tablespoon salt. Cook slowly for four hours, keep- 
ing it below the boiling-point. Add vegetable and sea- 
soning last hour. The stock should reduce one-third 
if kept at proper degree of heat. 

Chicken Soup. 

3-pound fowl. 1 onion, cut in slices. 

5 pints water. 3^ small carrot. 

1 tablespoon salt. 1 cup cream. 

1 stalk celery. 1 egg. 

34 teaspoon peppercorn. 

Boil fowl whole or cut up just as you please. Bring 
quickly to the boiling-point, then let simmer until meat 
is tender, when you stick fork in second joint. Re- 
move meat, add seasonings and vegetables, cut very fine, 
and continue simmering for about twenty minutes. 
Strain, cool and remove the fat ; thicken with tw^o table- 
spoons butter (level) and two tablespoons flour. Beat 
egg very light, add cream, and just as you are ready 
to send to table turn eggs and cream in soup ; heat, but 
do not boil or the egg may curdle. You can add two 
tablespoons sherry wine with cream and egg. 



40 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Chicken Broth. 

This same stock is served as chicken broth without 
the thickening or egg. Serve in bouillon cups. 

Turkey Soup. 

Break the carcass in pieces, with anj^ bits of meat 
left over. Remove all dressing. Cover with cold water 
and simmer one and a half hours. Strain, cool and 
remove fat. Season with salt, pepper and a stalk of 
celery. Cook the celery with the carcass. This is very 
good. 

Potage a la Reine. 

4 cups white chicken 3^ cup cream. 

stock. I3 cup cracker crumbs. 

12 peppercorns. 2 cups scalded milk. 

Slice of onion. 1^ cup cold milk. 

Stalk of celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons butter. Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

Cook stock with seasonings fifteen minutes, chop, 
and rub the breast meat of the fowl as fine as it can be 
made. Rub the eggs through a sieve. Soak the cracker 
crumbs in the cold milk until soft. Add two eggs. Mix 
thoroughly, and add the chopped meat to egg and 
cracker mixture, then pour on the hot milk slowly. 
Turn all into the strained stock, boil two or three min- 
utes, and bind with the butter and flour. Turn in the" 
half cup cream and serve at once. This was Queen 
Victoria's favorite soup. 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup, 

4 cups white stock. I4 cup butter. 

1 stalk celery. i/^ cup flour. 
Small piece of onion. 2 cups milk. 

2 yolks of eggs. }^ cup cream. 

1 cauliflower, boiled until tonder. 



SOUPS. 41 

Soak cauliflower head down in cold water with table- 
spoon of salt; cook in boiling salted water twenty min- 
utes. Reserve about half of the nicest part of the 
flowerets, and rub the remainder through sieve. Saute 
the onion and celery in butter a few moments; remove, 
add the flour, and stir into the hot stock; add the 
cauliflower and hot milk. Season to taste, with salt 
and pepper. Strain, reheat, and add the yolk of eggs 
and half cup of cream. Add flowerets and send to table 
at once. This can be made .without the eggs and cream,, 
but is better with them. 

Cream of Lettuce Soup. 

3 cups white stock. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons rice. 3^2 <^^P cream. 

Slice of onion, cut fine. Yolk of 1 egg. 

2 heads lettuce, cut fine. Salt and pepper. 

Cook onion a few moments in butter (do not let 
it brown), add lettuce, and toss a few moments in the 
butter to get the flavor. Add the rice and stock, cook 
until the rice is soft, strain through sieve, then add 
cream and yolk of egg, salt and pepper, and serve. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

3 cups white stock. I4 cup flour. 

3 bunches asparagus. 2 cups scalded milk. 

Slice of onion. 3 cups cold water. 

L4 cup butter. Salt and pepper. 

Remove the tips from asparagus, tie up m piece of 
cheese-cloth, and cook on top of asparagus to serve in 
the soup. Add asparagus to cold water, simmer until 
tender, then onion and stock. Boil thirty minutes, rub 
through a sieve, and bind with the butter and flcur and 
the tips that you have cooked in the cheesecloth until 
tender. Add scalded milk, salt and pepper. 



42 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

3 cups white stock. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 cups celery, cut in inch pieces. 3 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups boiling water. 2 cups milk. 

Slice onion. 1 cup cream. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook eelery five or ten minutes, drain and cook in 
the stock until tender, and rub through sieve. Scald 
onion in milk in. double boiler^ remove onion, add stock, 
and bind with the butter and flour. Add cream and 
seasoning, and serve very hot. 

Spinach Soup. 

4 cups white stock. 3^ peck spinach. 

2 cups milk. 3 cups boiling water. 
34 cup butter. Salt and pepper. 

3^4 cup flour. 

Thoroughly wash the spinach, cook twenty-five min- 
utes in boiling water with half teaspoon of salt and half 
teaspoon of sugar; drain, chop and rub through sieve. 
Add stock, heat to boiling-point, bind with butter and 
flour, add milk seasoning, and serve at once. It is best 
to keep all cream soups in double boiler to keep hot and 
not boil. 

Scotch Soup. 

3 pounds mutton from fore- Water to cover meat, 
quarter. 1 small onion. 

?t tablespoons carrot in dice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons turnip, diced. Pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons barley. 

Wipe meat and cut in small pieces, refusing all fat 
and skin. Add water, bring to boiling-point, skim, 
•cook slowly for two hours. Add the salt, pepper, carrot, 
turnip and onion for the last hour's cooking. Soak, 
strain, cool, and remove fat; reheat and thicken with 



SOUPS. 43; 

the flour. Cook barley that has been soaked overnight 
until tender, drain and add to soup. If barley were 
cooked in the soup, it would absorb most of the broth. 
You can use rice prepared in the same way if you pre- 
fer it, and the cubes of carrot, turnip and onion can 
be cooked until tender and put in the soup same time 
with the barley or rice. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

1 calf's head. I3 teaspoon peppercorns. 

6 cloves (ends pinched out). 1 small onion, sliced. 

1 small carrot, diced. 21^ cups brown stock. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. i| cup butter. 

% cup flour. Juice of Jo lemon. 

1 cup stewed and strained }2 cup Madeira wine, 
tomato. 

Wash and clean calf's head. Soak from one to twa 
hours in cold water to cover. Cook until tender in three 
and a half quarts salted boiling water, to which the 
seasonings and vegetables have been added. Remove 
head, boil stock until reduced to one quart, strain and 
cool. Melt and brown butter, add flour, and stir until 
well browned, then pour on slowly brown stock. Add 
head stock, tomato and one cup force-meat cut in dice, 
and lemon juice ; also egg balls made from yolks of eggs. 
Heat very hot, add wine and serve at once. 

Mulligatawny Soup. 

5 cups white stock. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup tomatoes. I4 cup butter. 

1 pepper, chopped fine. 2 cloves. 

1 apple, sliced. Sprig parsley. 

1 cup boiled rice. Very little curry powder. 

Onion, carrot and celery. Salt and pepper to taste. 

I4 cup each, cut fine. 1 cup raw chicken, cut in 
small pieces. 



44 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cook vegetables and chicken in the butter until 
brown. IVIix curry powder and flour, add to the butter 
and vegetables, with the cloves, parsley, stock and to- 
mato. Simmer one hour and ten minutes, strain, re- 
serving the pieces of chicken, and rub the vegetables 
through a wire puree sieve. Reheat, add chicken, boiled 
rice, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Consomme. 

4 lbs. round of beef and bone. 3 lbs. knuckle of veal. 

y^ cup each carrot, turnip 2 or 3 sprigs each parsley, 
and celery, cut fine. thyme and marjoram. 

1 3-pound fowl. 1 teaspoon peppercorns. 

2 tablespoons butter. 3 cloves. 

}^ bay leaf. 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 onion, sliced. 

Cut the beef into small pieces and brown one-third 
of it in the marrow from the bones or some butter; 
put rem_aining quantity in soup-kettle with veal and 
bones cut very fine, so they can be placed in the kettle 
compactly. Turn in the browned pieces of meat, and 
turn some water in the frying-pan you take the meat 
from, and get all the brown from the pan and turn 
into the kettle to give the soup a fine color. Then cover 
the meat and bones in the soup-kettle one inch above 
the meat, heat slowly to the boiling-point, and simmer 
for three hours. Cook your fowl in water enough to 
make about one quart of stock; it will require about 
two and a half hours' cooking, or until the fowl is 
quite tender. Add this liquor to your soup-kettle and 
simmer one hour longer. Cook the celery, turnip, carrot 
and onion with two tablespoons butter for five minutes, 
and turn into the soup with the remaining seasonings, 
-and cook for one hour and a quarter. Strain, cool 



SOUPS. 45 

quickly, remove fat, and clear. The fowl can be used 
for creamed chicken croquettes or chicken salad. 

This consomme is used with a variety of ingredients, 
and whatever solid is put into it gives it its name. 
For example : 

Consomme with vegetables cut any shape you like, 
and cooked until tender before you put them in the 
consomme. 

Consomme Princess. 

Consomme with diced chicken and tender peas. 

Consomme Aux Pates. 

Consomme with Italian pastes that have been first 
cooked in boiling salted water until tender. It can 
be either macaroni, spaghetti or noodles. 

Consomme with Poached Bgg, 

Poach and serve one egg to each plate. 

Cosnomme a la Royale. 

Consomme with royal custard cut in fancy shape 
and put just as you send it to the table. 



SOUPS WITH FISH STOCK. 

Clam Soup with Poached Bgg, 

1 quart clams. 2 tablespoons flour. 

'2 tablespoons butter. Whites of two eggs. 

1 small onion, sliced. 4 cups milk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean and pick over the clams, using three-fourths 
cup of w^ater. Reserve the liquor. Put aside the soft 
parts and cbop fine the hard parts. B^ing gradually 



46 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

to the boiling-point, and strain, then thicken with the 
butter and flour. Scald the milk in double boiler with 
the onion in it. Remove the onion, add the milk and 
soft part of the clam to stock; cook for two minutes, 
and pour over the stiff-beaten whites of eggs, and serve 
at once. 

Clam Bouillon. 
3^ peck clams. 3 cups cold water. 

Wash and scrub clams well, using several waters. 
Put into kettle with cold water. Cover tightly, and 
steam until the shells are well opened. Strain liquor, 
cool, and clear with whites of eggs. 

Oyster Soup. 

1 quart oysters. }^ cup butter. 

1 quart milk. I3 cup flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean oysters by placing them in colander and pour- 
ing over them one cup cold water. Carefully pick over 
the oysters and reserve the liquor, which you heat to the 
boiling-point and strain through a French sieve. To 
this liquor you add the oysters (which you can slightly 
chop, if you like), and bring them to the boiling-point, 
which will plump the oysters. To this you add the 
butter and flour cooked together. Lastly add the quart 
of milk that has been brought to the scald in the double 
boiler. Season to taste. A slice of onion can be put 
in the milk while heating, if desired, also a blade of 
mace. But, if you like the oysters for their flavor, all 
this is better left out. 

Oyster Stew. 

1 quart scalded milk. 1 quart oysters. 

Salt and pepper to taste. y^ cup butter. 



SOUPS. 47 

Clean and prepare oysters same as for oyster soup, 
reserving the liquor, which you heat to the boiling- 
point. Strain through a fine sieve, put back on fire, re- 
heat with oysters in, and cook until the oysters are 
plump and edges begin to curl. Remove the oysters 
with skimmer and put into tureen with butter, salt 
and pepper. Strain the liquor once more, add to milk, 
and turn over the oysters in tureen, and serve with 
oyster crackers. 

Scallop Stew. 

Make same as oyster stew, using one quart of scal- 
lops instead of oysters. 

Lobster Bisque. 

2 pounds lobster. }^ cup cream. 
1 cup white stock. i| cup butter. 

3 cups milk. i| cup flour. 

Few grains cayenne and salt to taste. 

Remove meat from lobster shell; scald milk and 
stock in double boiler; thicken with the butter and 
flour rubbed togehter. Add the tail meat cut in cubes, 
also the tender meat in the claws. Season with salt and 
cayenne. If you desire a strong flavor of the lobster, 
the shell can be heated in the stock and strained off. 
Just before sending to the table, add the cream, but 
do not let it stand or the cream may curdle. Should 
there be coral, wash it, and rub through a sieve; blend 
with butter and add to soup. 



48 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER VI. 

SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 

Corn Soup. 

1 can corn. 1 small onion. 

1 cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 cups milk. 2 tablespoons flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the corn fine, add the water and .simmer twelve 
or fifteen minutes ; rub throug-h a sieve. Scald the milk 
with the onion, remove onion, and add milk to corn. 
Kind with the butter and flour cooked together. Add 
salt and pepper, and serve with popcorn that has been 
freshly popped. 

Pea Soup. 

1 can marrowfat peas. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 cups cold water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

3 cups milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 slice onion. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain peas from their liquor, and rinse them in 
cold water ; add cold water and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Rub through puree sieve, reheat, and thicken with flour 
and butter cooked together. Scald milk and onion in 
double boiler, remove onion, and add milk to the pea 
mixture. Half cup thin cream will improve the soup. 

Black Bean Soup. 

1 pint black beans. 1 small onion. 

2 quarts water. 3 tablespoons butter. 
2 stalks celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 
'l<2 tablespoon salt. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 
Ys teaspoon pepper. 1 lemon, 

^4 teaspoon mustard. 1 cup stock. 



SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 49^ 

Wash beans and soak them overnight with water 
to cover them three inches above the beans; in the 
morning drain them and put them on to boil in the 
two quarts of cold water. Cook the onion for a few 
moments in one tablespoon of the butter, adding to 
the beans with the- celery cut into inch pieces; simmer 
three or four hours until the beans are soft, adding 
more water as water boils away. When soft, rub through 
a sieve, reheat to the boiling-point, and add the cup 
of stock. Mix salt, pepper, mustard and cayenne well 
together, and add to the bean puree. Bind with the 
remaining- butter and flour cooked together. Cut eggs 
and lemons in thin slices, and strain the soup over 
them in the tureen. Serve very hot. 

Bean Soup. 

3 cups cooked beans, either 1 cup celery, cut fine, 
baked or boiled. 2 talespoons butter. 

2 pints water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 small onion. 2 tablespoons Chili sauce- 

Salt and cayenne. 

Put the beans, onion and celery m saucepan to- 
gether, and simmer together for twenty-five or thirty 
minutes. Rub through a sieve, and add Chili sauce^ 
caj'-enne, salt and pepper, and bind with the flour and 
butter cooked together for a few moments. Should the 
soup seem too thick, you can thin it with stock, milk 
or water. 

Celery Soup. 

3 cups celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 
3 cups milk. 1 small onion. 

1 pint boiling water. Salt and pepper. 

3 tablespoons butter. ^/^ cup thin cream. 



50 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

"Wash and scrape the celery before cutting, cook 
in boiling water, and rub through a sieve. Scald milk 
and onion in double boiler, and add milk to celery. 
Bind with butter and flour cooked together, season 
with salt and pepper to taste, add cream and serve 
^t once. 

Split=pea Soup. 

1 cup split peas. 3 tablespoons butter. 
5 pints water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

% large or 1 small onion. H teaspoon pepper. 

Soak peas overnight, drain, and add the five pints 
of cold water. Simmer until soft enough to rub through 
.a sieve ; put in the onion when they are about half done. 
Hub all through a sieve, and bind with the butter and 
:flour, and dilute with the milk that is heated to the 
scald in double boiler. Add more milk if it is neces- 
sary, as this milk soup w^ants to be about as thick as 
<;ream. 

Potato Soup. 

3 medium-sized potatoes. liv, teaspoons salt. 

1 quart milk. 1 stalk celery. 

2 slices onion. Dasli cayenne. 

3 tablespoons butter. Little white pepper. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water until very 
soft, and rub them through a sieve. Scald milk in 
double boiler with onion and celery; remove onion and 
celery, and add milk slowly to the potatoes. Bind the 
soup with butter and flour, add the seasoning, sprinkle 
with the parsley, and serve. 



SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 5X 



Tomato Soup. 

1 can tomatoes. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 pint water or stock 2 teaspoons salt. 

(preferable stock). 2 tablespoons butter. 

12 peppercorns. 2V2 tablespoons flour. 

3 cloves. 2 tablespoons minced ham. 

Cook all together for twenty minutes and strain. 
Bind with butter and flour cooked together; turn into 
tureen. 

Squash Soup. 

1 cup cooked squash. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 slice onion. 2 tablespoons flour. 

4 cups milk. . i/i> cup cream. 

1 egg, beaten well. 

Eub squash through sieve. Scald milk and onion, 
and remove onion. Bind with flour and butter. Add 
cream ; heat, but do not boil. 

Cream of Tomato. 

1 can tomatoes. 4 tablespoons flour. 

1 quart milk. 2 teaspoons salt. 

Mi cup cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

4 tablespoons butter. 14 teaspoon soda. 

Paprica and white pepper. 

Scald milk and onion, remove onion, and thicken 
milk with flour, being careful not to lump it. Let it 
cook in double boiler for twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly at first. Cook tomatoes and sugar until they 
strain easily; rub through the sieve and add soda. 
Combine the mixture and turn into the tureen over 
the butter, salt, paprica and pepper. Serve at once. 



52 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Vegetable Soup. 

1 quart stock or water. 1 tablespoon barley. 

1^ cup carrots. 1 sour apple. 

y.2 cup turnips. 1 tablespoon finely 

y^ cup celery. chopped parsley. 

Vi cup potatoes. Salt and pepper. 

1/^ cup onions. Dash cayenne. 

Cut vegetables very fine, first in strips, then cut 
them across. Measure after cutting. Soak barley for 
two or three hours or overnight. Mix vegetables and 
cook in four tablespoons of butter for a few moments, 
stirring all the time; add the potatoes, barley and 
apple, then the stock or water, and cook for one hour 
very slow. Beat with fork to break the vegetables. 
Add a little butter, parsley, salt and pepper, and serve. 

CHOWDERS. 

Oyster Chow^der. 

1 quart oysters. 1 tablespoon salt. 

5 cups potatoes. % teaspoon pepper. 

1 sliced onion. '4 cup butter. 

4 cups scalded milk. 8 common crackers. 

li/^-inch cube fat pork. Cut potatoes in 14-inch slices. 

Clean oysters by pouring over them one cup cold 
water in colander. Lift each one carefully to see there 
are no pieces of shells; reserve the liquor. Cut salt 
pork in small pieces and try out. Add onion and fry 
five minutes. Strain fat into stewpan. Parboil pota- 
toes five minutes in boiling water to cover, drain, and 
add potatoes to fat. Pour over the oyster liquor that 
has been boiled and skimmed. Should there not be as 
much as two cups, add enough water to make the 
amount. Cook ten minutes or until potatoes are soft. 



CHOWDERS. 53 

Add oysters, and as soon as they are plump and edges 
curled, add the scalded milk, butter, salt, pepper (to 
taste") , and crackers split and soaked in a little cold 
milk to moisten them. 

Fish Chowder. 

31/^ pounds cod or haddock. 11^-inch cube salt pork. 

4 cups potatoes cut in V4- 1 tablespoon salt. 

inch slices. i/i teaspoon pepper. 

1 onion, sliced. 4 tablespoons butter. 

4 cups scalded milk. 
8 common crackers, soaked in cold milk to moisten. 

Have fish skinned, leaving on hear", and tail. Cut 
off head and tail, and remove fish from backbone, and 
cut fish in nice pieces about two inches in size, and set 
aside. Put on in saucepan the bones, head and tail, 
with two and a half cups of water, and simmer for about 
thirty minutes. Cut pork into small, thin pieces, and 
try out in frying-pan ; in the fat of the pork put slices 
of onion and cook for five minutes, but do not let them 
brown. Strain fat into saucepan. Parboil the potatoes 
for five minutes, drain and turn into saucepan with 
onion and pork fat, then add two cups of boiling water, 
and cook for five minutes. Add liquor drained from 
bones with the pieces of fish ; cover and simmer twelve 
or fifteen minutes; add scalded milk, butter, salt, pepper 
and a dash of cayenne, and the crackers split and moist- 
ened in the cold milk. 

Chowder k la Creole. 

This chowder can be made from the above recipe, 
asing three cups of strained tomatoes instead of the 
milk. 



54 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Clam Chowder. 

1 quart clams. V^ teaspoon pepper. 

4 cups potatoes, cut in 4 cups scalded milk, 

i^-inch dice. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 sliced onion. 8 crackers. 

1 tablespoon salt IVj inch cube salt pork 

cut in thin slices. 

Clean and pick over clams; wash with cup of cold 
water; drain, reseiwe liquor, heat to boiling-point, and 
strain. Remove the hard part of the clam and chop 
it very fine. Cut piork in thin, small pieces, and try 
out in frying-p«an. Cook onion in pork fat for five 
minutes, and strain into saucepan. Parboil the pota- 
toes for not longer than three or four minutes, drain 
and put layer in saucepan. Add the choppyed clams, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour, 
using two or three tablespoonfuk. Add remaining 
potatoes, dredge again, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and add two and a half cups of boiling water. Cook 
ten minutes; add milk, soft part of the clams and the 
butter. Boil two minutes, add the crackers split and 
moistened. Reheat the water from the clams, to boiling- 
point, thicken with tablespoon each of butter and flour 
cooked together, and add to chowder just before serving. 
ing. 



GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 55 

CHAPTER VII. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 

Force=meat Balls. 

CHOP any cooked meat fine (what is better, put it 
through the meat-grinder), season it very highly 
with onion juice, lemon juice, salt, pepper and a dash 
of cayenne, little minced parsley and thyme. Bind 
together with egg, form into balls, roll in flour, and 
poach in boiling water. They may be sauted, but are 
better poached. 

Noodles. 

Use one egg, half teaspoon of salt, with flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Beat egg slightly, add salt, and 
flour for a stiff dough. Knead slightly, and toss on a 
board floured as lightly as possible. Roll very thin, as 
thin as paper; cover with clean cloth, and rest for 
twenty minutes; then roll as jelly roll and cut into 
slices just as thin as possible, or shape in fancy shapes 
with vegetable-cutter, but the jelly roll is the most 
practical. 

Royal Custard. 

3 egg yolks. i/4 teaspoon salt. 

1 whole egg. Dash cayenne. 

1/^ cup beef stock. 

Beat eggs slightly, and add salt and beef stock. 
Pour the mixture into pan or flat dish, having it half- 
inch deep. Place this pan or dish inside of another wdth 
several thicknesses of paper and w^ater to come half 
way up the dish wnth the custard in it, and place it in a 



56 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

moderate oven in order that it may set and not bubble 
or brown on the top. Set where it will become per- 
fectly cold, and cut it from the dish in cubes or fancy 
shapes if desired. It should be placed very carefully 
in tureen just at serving-time, allowing three or four 
pieces to a service. 

Egg Balls. 

Rub through a potato-ricer the hard-boiled yolks of 
three eggs. Season with salt, pepper and a little cay- 
enne, and moisten with the uncooked yolk of one egg 
to bind it together. Form into small balls, using one- 
third of a teaspoonful to each ball. Roll in white of 
egg, then in flour, and poach in boiling water, or fry 
in butter. Serve in mock turtle, consomme or bouillon. 

Marrow Balls. 

Melt and strain one tablespoon marrow into a bowl ; 
beat it until very creamy, then add one egg and beat 
it again thoroughly. Season with pepper, salt and 
paprika. Add to this as much soft bread crumbs as it 
wall moisten. Roll into balls and poach in boiling water. 

Green Peas for Garnish. 

To one cup green peas put through a potato-ricer 
and freed from the skins, add one tablespoon soup 
stock and whites of three eggs, and season with salt, 
a teaspoon of sugar, and a little white pepper. Mix 
thoroughly and place in a mould. Set the mould in 
pan filled partly with hot water, putting two or three 
doubles of paper under the mould. Cook in slow oven 
until the mixture is set and firm. Cool, unmould, cut 
into cubes, and serve in soup just as you send to the 
table. 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 57 



CHAPTER VIII. 

PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 

"The tiirbot shall be served at the king's coronation, 
taken in the kingdom or elsewhere." — KirwirVs Diners and 
Dining. 

FISH is an article of food which requires great care 
and clear, good judgment on the part of the 
housewife. It wants to be perfectly fresh, properly 
cleaned and well cooked. If underdone, it should 
never be served; while, on the other hand, overcooking 
spoils the flavor and makes it dry. The sooner it is 
cooked, after being taken from the water, the better 
for fish and the ones to whom it is served. The story 
cf the steward reaching under the table and drawing 
the fish from the stream running through the king's 
dining-room, as told by Kerwen in an old English cook- 
book w^hich I have, is a fine illustration of the best 
condition for the fish to be in when served at his mas- 
ter's- table. The guest knew it wa,^ fresh and would 
be cooked to perfection, and thought of it while it was 
being prepared, so that when it was presented, gar- 
nished and arranged in the most appetizing way, the 
palate was ready to enjoy it to a degree, and the fact 
that it was eaten with so much relish made it easy and 
quick of digestion. 

"When the fish is fresh the eyes are bright, the gills 
red, and the flesh firm and without odor. You can have 
vour fish-dealer remove the scales and draw the fish 



5» SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

before delivering. As soon as you get it, you thoroughly 
wash by letting the water run on the fish; never lay 
it in water to soak, as you lose the juices in this way. 
Wipe with a clean piece of cheesecloth wrung out of 
cold, salted water until thoroughly dry and free from 
any slimy feeling which the fish is apt to have. Then 
wrap the fish in a cloth kept for that purpose, and 
over the cloth a thick, large piece of paper, and laj^ in 
the ice-box, in some place in the top of the box, 
so it will not in any way interfere with milk and 
butter you may have in your box. It should lie 
directly on the ice until read}^ to cook. Frozen fish 
should be laid in cold water until they thaw and be- 
come flexible, but not a bit longer. The head and tail 
should be left on, and the fins trimmed and shaped of 
a fish which is to be served whole. 

To Skin and Bone a Fish. 

With a sharp-pointed knife loosen the skin all around 
the head and down the backbone. Dip the hands in 
salted water, and you will be able to strip the skin off 
nicely. After the skin has been removed with a sharp- 
pointed knife, you loosen the flesh down the back, press- 
ing the knife against the bone until it is free. The 
fillet may then be cut into two or more pieces, accord- 
ing to the size of the fish. 

Fillets from sole, flounder, and other small, flat 
fishes, are sometimes rolled and skewered until cooked. 
Wooden toothpicks answer for this purpose admirably. 
Too much care can not be taken to have the fish fresh 
and well cared for, as it very quickly gathers ptomain^ 
which is the cause of many cases of poisoning, 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 59 

To Boil Fish. 

Clean, trim and wrap the fish in a clean piece of 
cheesecloth or mosquito netting, tying it firm. Put to 
boil in salted water to cover the fish well, and add one 
tablespoon salt and one tablespoon vinegar or lemon 
juice to three quarts of water. This tends to whiten 
and harden the flesh of the fish, as well as to season 
it. A bay leaf and soup vegetables improve the flavor 
of haddock and codfish. Be sure the water is boiling 
hot when you put the fish in; let it come to the boiling- 
point, then lower the heat to the simmering-point, for 
the fish wants the same kind of cooking we give the 
egg, as it is largely albumen. The fish-kettle is neces- 
sary where the fish is to be served whole, but in any 
case it is best to wrap in the cloth, although it can 
be tied into shape and rested on the strainer of the 
kettle. Allow ten minutes to the pound after the water 
begins to simmer. In preparing a fish to boil or bake 
that is to be served w^hole, it is much better to have it 
drawn from the throat. It can be be nicely done, as 
the writer has often done it ; and to keep it in shape, 
if you do not use fish stuffing, it is well to put a car- 
rot in to hold it firm, and prop it on the sides with 
cither turnips or potatoes. Garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs, or w^ith the pars- 
ley alone, placing the garnish at head and tail, leav- 
ing the platter free on the sides for the carver. 

Boiled fish needs to be served with a rich sauce — 
drawn butter, Hollandaise or Bechamel. In the drawn- 
butter sauce you want to put finely chopped hard- 
boiled eggs. 



60 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Baked Fish. 

After the lish has been carefully cleaned, drawn, 
eyes removed, fins and tail shaped, put in the stuffing, 
sew up opening- with a trussing or large needle; then 
cut three gashes on either sid.e of the fish and lay some 
pieces of salt pork in each cut, and fasten with a wooden 
toothpick to hold it in place. You can shape it in the 
form of a letter S, if you like, with a long trussing- 
needle and a piece of white cotton cord drawn tightly, 
or prop on the sides with potatoes and leave in the 
natural shape. 

Dredge the fish with salt and pepper, and lay slices 
of pork in the pan and over the top of the fish. The 
pork gives a nice flavor and does the basting at the same 
time; if the fire is kept low enough, the pan will not 
burn. This can be done nicely with the present-day 
gas stove. Allow fifteen minutes to the pound, and 
during the cooking baste wdth the pork fat as it cooks 
out. The fish is more easily removed if a fish-sheet is 
used in the bottom of the pan. 

Haddock, w^hite lake fish, shad and bluefish are good 
for baking. Garnish with lemon, parsley or lettuce, and 
serve with Hollandaise, tomato or a brown sauce. 

Stuffing for Baked Fish. 

1 cup cracker crumbs or 1 tablespoon minced onion. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

% cup butter (melted). 1 tablespoon minced olives. 
1 teaspoon salt (level). 1 tablespoon minced pickles. 
Dash pepper. 1 tablespoon minced capers. 

1 egg to moisten. 

Fillets of Haddock with Oyster Stuffing. 

Skin and bone a four-pound haddock, leaving in 
the large bones near the head to keep the fillets in 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 61 

shape. Sprinkle with salt and brush Avitli lemon juice. 
Place on a wel] -greased fish-sheet in a dripping-pan, 
and cover thickly between the fillets with oysters, well 
seasoned and dipped in buttered cracker crumbs. Place 
the fillets together and fasten in several places with 
small wooden toothpicks. Brush with egg slightly 
beaten, cover top with buttered crumbs, and bake in 
moderate oven for forty or forty-five minutes. Serve 
with Plollandaise sauce. The oysters want to be large. 
Allow one cup of cracker crumbs to one pint of oysters 
after they are drained and cleaned. 

Stuffed Haddock, Oyster Sauce. 

Clean, wipe, shape and sprinkle A\dth salt on the in- 
side, and stuff w^ith highly seasoned cracker crumbs, 
using a little onion juice. The fish wants to weigh from 
three and a half to four pounds. Bake slowly in mod- 
erate oven, using salt pork on top of fish and in the 
pan to baste with. Serve with oyster sauce. 

Oyster Sauce. 

1 pint oysters. H cup butter. 

14 cup flour. Chicken broth can be used 

1 cup oyster liquor. instead of mill^. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash oysters in half cup of water. Heat the oyster 
liquor, and strain. Add the oysters to it and cook until 
plump. Remove the oysters, and make a sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk and oyster liquor. Add the oysters 
and season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Oyster Stuffing for Fish. 

1 cup cracker crumbs. 1 tablespoon chopped 
14 cup butter. parsley. 

^2 pint oysters. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. (Moisten with oyster liquor. 



62 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Crumb the crackers rather coarse, and stir into the 
melted butter; add the seasoning^s and the oysters that 
have been cleaned, and moisten with the liquor, using 
care not to have them too wet, as there will be moisture 
from the oysters as they get hot in the baking. This 
stuffing can be used for haddock, cod, slices of halibut, 
or any fish you desire to bake and stuff. 

Baked Halibut Steaks. 

Two halibut steaks cut one and a half inches thick: 
scrape well on the skin side, and wipe with cheesecloth 
wet in salt w^ater. Lay on a well-buttered fish-sheet, 
and place in dripping-pan. Spread the top with soft 
butter, and cook in moderate oven until the fish leaves 
the center bone and will flake nicely. Use a very little 
water in bottom of pan, and baste several times while it 
is cooking. Serve with Tartar sauce and cucumbers, 
dressed with French dressing. This makes a beautiful 
fish course for a green luncheon. 

Fillets of Flounder. 

A piece of fish, large or small, freed from skin and 
bone, is called a fillet. When flounder is cut into fillets, 
it is often served as fillets of sole, a fish found in Eng- 
lish water and held in high esteem. Select your 
flounders of uniform size and large enough that each 
fish will give you four fillets. Marinate them with two 
tablespoons of olive oil and one of lemon juice, with 
salt and pepper ; or dip them in melted butter and 
dredge with salt and pepper. Roll them, beginning at 
the broad end. and fasten with a wooden toothpick. 
Egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat for seven 
minutes, putting in four at a time, so as not to reduce 
the temperature of the fat too much. Dress the fillets 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 63 

on a platter in a circle, and serve Tartar sauce in the 
center. Decorate the edge of the fish with slices of 
lemon and watercress or parsley. 

Shad. 

The best and most approved way of serving shad is 
to plank it. It is also broiled, baked, and sometimes 
stuffed and baked. 

Planked Shad. 

Use a hardwood board one and a half to two inches 
thick. Split the fish down the back. Wash it well by 
letting the water run on the fish. Wipe it dry with 
soft cloth. Heat the plank before placing the shad on 
it, and rub it with lard so the fish will not stick. Rub 
the top of the fish with soft butter, and place in the 
broiler of your gas stove, and cook until the flesh of 
the fish leaves the bones readily when it is done. Place 
the plank on a tray and spread the fish with maitre 
d 'hotel butter, and serve from the plank. The plank 
can be dressed with mashed potatoes with rose tube and 
pastry bag and bunches of parsley, and this makes it 
very attractive. Our white lake fish is prepared in 
the same way. 

Shad Roe with Tartar Sauce. 

Put shad roe into boiling salted water, and simmer 
for ten minutes, being careful not to break the skin, 
and plunge them into cold water; when they are cold, 
with a sharp knife split them into nice-sized pieces 
to serve, and dredge them with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice, and dip them in beaten egg, and roll in corn 
meal or bread crumbs, and brown them in butter. Or 
the}^ can be fried in deep fat, if you prefer, but the 
browning in the butter gives them a nice flavor. Pour 



64 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the Tartar sauce over them just as you send them to 
the table. 

Tartar Sauce. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. % cup butter. 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Salt to taste. 

Brown the butter in frying-pan, and pour it over 
the AVorcestershire, salt and lemon juice, and pour the 
whole over the shad roe and serve at once. 

Turbans of Halibut. 

2 slices halibut, cut % cup melted butter. 

Vo-inch thick. Onion juice, salt and 

Juice of % lemon. pepper. 

Cut the bone from halibut, remove the skin, and 
make four turbans from each slice. Dip in the melted 
butter, season with salt, pepper, lemon and onion juice. 
Commence with the widest end, and roll each fillet into 
a turban, and fasten with a wooden toothpick. Bake 
about twenty minutes, basting with butter and hot 
water. Have serving-dish hot, and arrange in crown 
shape and fill the center with potatoes cut in cubes or 
balls, and seasoned with butter, salt and white pepper. 
Use parsley and lemon juice to garnish the dish. 

To Cook Salt Mackerel. 

Let soak in cold water overnight, skin side up ; and, 
if you are going to broil them, drain and wipe them dry. 
Brush them with soft butter or olive oil. Place on a 
well-greased broiler skin side down, and place in the 
broiler, and when it is well browned it will be done. 
Remove carefulty to hot serving-dish, and butter and 
garnish with lemon. If convenient, a half cup of hot 
cream is nice poured over it. Mackerel can be boiled 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 65 

after soaking instead of broiled, if preferred. In that 
case put it in boiling water, and keep it just at the 
simmering point for about fifteen minutes, and slide 
out carefully onto the serving-dish, and season with 
butter, pepper and tablespoon of lemon juice, and 
sprinkle with minced parsley. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie. 

Thoroughly wash and soak for one hour in cold 
water, skin side up. Pour ofiP cold water and cover 
with boiling water, and keep where it keeps hot, but 
does not boil, for twenty minutes. Drain, wipe dry 
and broil, first brushing with soft butter. Place in the 
broiler, keep the gas rather low, and cook for ten or 
twelve minutes. Turn onto a hot platter, butter and 
sprinkle with lemon juice. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Let a piece of nice codfish (the dun-cured is the 
best) be picked up into small pieces, covered with cold 
water, and allowed to stand for several hours. Drain 
and press out all the water. Cover with boiling water, 
and let it simmer for about ten minutes ; drain again, 
and dress with a cup of cream sauce. Just before serv- 
ing stir in the yolks of two eggs and one-fourth of a 
cup of cream. Serve with plain boiled potatoes, or 
baked. 

Codfish Balls. 

2 cups picked-up codfish. 1 egg. 
4 cups potatoes (round). 1 tablespoon butter. 
A little wh.ite pepper. 

Wash the fi^h well in cold water, and pick it up into 
very small pieces, or, what is better, cut fine with scis- 



66 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

sors. Wash potatoes, pare them and cut into pieces 
about as lar^e as walnuts before measuring. Place the 
potatoes in saucepan with boiling water to cover, and 
put the picked fish on top of potatoes, and boil rapidly 
until the potato is soft enough to mash. Drain and 
dry the potato on the fire. Shake off the pieces of 
fish, and put the potato through the ricer, if you have 
not mashed with a potato masher, until there are no 
lumps in them. Then beat the fish and potatoes well 
together, and add the egg and butter and beat again. 
Take up by spoonfuls and fry in deep fat in frying- 
basket, putting in only a few at a time. Drain on brown 
paper and keep in a pile on hot dish, and serve with 
mustard or horseradish. 

Fish Chops. 

1 can of salmon or that 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

amount of cold fish. V2 teaspoon ' paprika. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 tablespoons flour. 

Pick up the fish and free it from skin and bones, 
making it very fine with a fork. Sprinkle with the 
lemon juice and add paprika and a dash of white pep- 
per. Make the cup of white sauce with the butter, 
flour and milk, salt and pepper to taste, and a dash 
of minced parsley. As soon as the sauce is done stir 
into it minced fish. Mix thoroughly and spread on pan 
to cool. When thoroughly cold, shape into chops, 
crumb and egg and fry in deep fat. 

Fish a la Creme. 

2 cups cold flaked fish. ^4 bay leaf. 

2 cups butter. 1 small onion. 

2 tablespoons flour. Sprig parsley. 

1 cup milk. V2 cup cracker crumbs. 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 67 

^lake white sauce with the butter, flour and milk^ 
in which the bay leaf, parsley- and onion have been 
steeped in double boiler for at least ten minutes, when 
you remove the seasoning and use the milk for the 
fauce. Butter a small bake-dish and put in a layer of 
fish, and pour over it half of your sauce, then another 
layer of the fish and the remaining sauce on the top, 
and cover the whole with the cracker crumbs buttered. 
This makes a nice fish course served on individual 
dishes, or ramiquins. 

Curry of Fish. 

Make a sauce with two tablespoons of butter, two 
of flour, one cup of white stock or milk, a teaspoon of 
grated onion, two cups of any kind of cold flaked fish, 
one tablespoon of curry powder. Mix the curry pow- 
der with the flour. 

Fried Smelts. 

The smelt is a small, delicious fish to fry, and makes 
a beautiful garnish when fried in rings for a large 
fish to be served for a dinner party. To prepare them 
you open the gill on the outside, and with the thumb 
and finger take hold of the inner gill and can easily 
pull out all the part that is not fit to be served. You 
will find they all come away together, and the fish will 
retain its shape perfectly. Clean by running the w^ater 
on them. Wipe dry. Dip them in milk and roll them 
in flour, or, if they are large enough, crumb and egg 
them and fry in deep fat. Use care not to put too 
many in the frying-basket at a time. They want to 
be served very crisp, with Tartar or Mayonnaise sauce. 
The smelt, when perfectly fresh, has very much the 
odor of a freshlv cut cucumber. 



eS SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Whitebait. 

Whitebait is one of the small fishes which you clean 
carefully. Dry by rubbing them in a napkin. Roll 
them in flour, using care to get them thoroughly cov- 
ered, but shake them to get off all loose flour. Immerse 
them in deep fat, until they take on a nice light brown 
color. They are so small they only take a little while 
to cook. Use care not to put too many in the frying- 
basket at a time. Drain them on a shallow pan lined 
with paper, and keep them hot and crisp in the oven. 

Pan Fish. 

These include the bass, perch, porgies, butter-fish, 
etc., and are all prepared in the same way. Scale, 
wash, remove head, or not, as you like; but, if head 
is left on, take out the eyes. Split them in halves, or, 
if very small, cook whole. They want to be wiped dry 
and rolled in flour or corn meal, and sprinkled with 
salt and pepper. They can be sauted in pork fat or 
lard, or half beef drippings and lard mixed, but the 
salt-pork fat is the best, as it imparts a nice flavor 
to the fish, and' a few pieces of the pork rolled in the 
corn meal and fried crisp is nice to eat with the fish. 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. 69 



CHAPTER IX. 
OYSTERS AND SHELLFISH. 

OYSTERS are in season from September to 
May. They are sold in the shell by the 
barrel, peck and dozen, or, after removing from 
the shell, by the quart. "When of medium size, 
there are about forty-five or fifty to the quart. 
The freshness of the oyster is of importance, and 
for this reason it is best to buy in the shell, for 
the reason that after the shell is removed, preservatives 
are used by the fish dealers. The shells are on the 
right and left sides of the oyster, and are called the 
right and left valves. The one on which the oyster 
rests grows faster and is deeper, and is known as the 
left valve. The oyster valves are joined by a very elas- 
tic ligament which admits of the opening and closing 
of the shell, and when you go to an oyster bed you will 
hear the opening and closing of these shells as the 
oyster feeds. The oyster is attached to the shell, by 
a tough muscle, which is sometimes removed, toge«ther 
with the outside of the gill, and when this is done they 
are said to be bearded. The body of the oyster is made 
up largely of liver. Natural oyster beds are found in 
shallow water with stony bottoms along the entire At- 
lantic Coast. The 03'ster is five years old before it is 
ready for the table. I was told once b}^ an old salt how 
many oysters the lady oyster would produce during 
the year; at present I do not recall it, but the number 



70 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

was marvelous. The Blue Points are considered the best 
to serve on the half-shell for the first course at a din- 
ner. They are so called from Blue Point, Long Island, 
from where they originally came. The Linhaven, a 
plump, fine-flavored oyster, is better to my notion than 
the Blue Point, and I see they are serving them a great 
deal and charge ten cents more on the half-dozen at 
all first-class cafes. Oysters from the Chesapeake Bay 
are considered very fine. 

Oyster farming has grown to be quite an industry 
at the present day. Oysters that are large and suitable 
for broiling are sold in the East by the quart, but as 
you go South they are sold by count. The New Orleans 
market furnishes the largest oyster T have ever seen 
served, but the flavor was not nearly so good. 

The oyster now is served all the year round, but 
during the summer months they are apt to be flabby 
and not so well flavored; but, if fresh, are perfectly 
he'althy, and in Pittsburg during this last year I ate 
them for my flrst course at Fort Pitt Hotel in June, 
and found them fine. 

Opening the Oyster. 

Use a thin, flat knife made for the purpose; put 
it under the back end of the right valve, and push 
forward until it cuts the strong muscle that holds the 
shells together. As soon as this is done, the right valve 
can be lifted and separated from the left, and in serving 
them on the half-shell they are always left on the left 
valve. 

To Clean the Oysters. 

Place them in a strainer over a bowl. Pour over 
them cold water — half cup of water to a quart of oys- 



OYSTERS AND SIlELL-FISH. 71 

ters. Carefully lift each oyster separately to see there 
are no pieces of shell remaining on the tough muscle. 
Reserve the oyster liquor in the bowl to be used for 
any purpose necessary. 

Scallops. 

The scallops belong to the bivalve family, and are 
found in Long Island Sound and Narragansett Bay. 
The edible portion of the scallop is the central muscle, 
and is the only part served in the market. They are 
found in the market from October until April. 

Cl&ms. 

The clam is found just below the surface of the 
sand and mud above low-water mark, and are dug with 
shovel or rake. There are two kinds of clams — hard 
and soft-shell. The soft-shell is considered a great deli- 
cacy by a connoisseur. The hard-shell clams are found 
along the coast from New York to Florida. The small 
ones are called little neck clams, and are served same as 
Blue Points as a first course at dinner. 

Lobster. 

The lobster comes next in line, and is considered the 
highest order of the crustaceans. The largest are found 
in the Atlantic from Maine to New Jersey, but they 
are very abundant on the Massachusetts coast. The 
largest I ever saw was in the Washington Market, New 
York, and it weighed twenty-five pounds. The meat 
of a lobster of this size would not be good. The best 
weight is about two pounds. The natural color of the 
lobster is a dark bluish green, but when they are 
cooked they change to a beautiful red. Lobsters are 
caught in traps and pots by the lobster fishers, who 



72 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

f^hip them alive to the market. The lobster starts dur- 
ing the month of IMarch to leave the deep water, where 
he spends his winters, and makes his way to the coast. 
The lobster is usually boiled when he is taken from 
the trap, excepting those that are put into cold storage 
to be shipped to markets of distant cities, where they 
require them to be delivered to them alive. The fresh- 
ness of the lobster is to be carefully considered, as 
they are coarse feeders and are easy to be infected with 
ptomain. 

To Determine the Freshness of the Lobster. 

Choose one heavy in proportion to the size. The 
smell wants to be fresh and the tail wants to spring 
back to place quickly if it has been freshly boiled. 

To Boil a Lobster. 

Have in your kettle enough boiling water to cover 
the lobster well, and add a tablespoonful of salt to the 
water. Take the lobster by the back and plunge him 
in head first as quickly as it is possible. Boil fast for 
three or four minutes, then simmer for thirty minutes. 

Opening the Lobster. 

Pull off the two large claws and the four pairs of 
small ones. Separate the tail and body by bending 
them back in the hands, and with a pair of scissors, 
kept in the kitchen for such uses, cut the inside of 
tail shell and bend it back slightly, when you can pull 
out the tail meat in a single piece. Turn and use care 
to remove the intestine, that you will find runs the 
entire length. This vein is always visible, but will vary 
in color, being white, red and black. In the body is 
found "the lady," or stomach, which you leave. If 



OYSTERS AND SIIELL-FISH. 73 

there is any coral, reserve it for decorating purposes. 
Pull out the woolly gills found in the body, and take 
out any bits of meat found between them. Disjoint 
the large claws, cut the shell (if not too hard) and 
remove the meat as whole as possible. Take the meat 
from the small claws with a skewer, being careful not 
to break them. Wash them and reserve them for deco- 
tion. They make a beautiful garnish with parsley or 
curled celery. 

Crabs. 

There is quite a variety of crabs. The blue crab 
is the one we serve as food. They are found on the 
Atlantic and Gulf coasts. In the South they use a 
great many crabs. I saw quantities of them in the 
New Orleans market. The soft-shell crab is considered 
a great delicacy. The oyster crabs found inside the 
shells of oysters are usually so few in number that they 
are only used as a garnish. 

Deviled Crabs. 

Boil the crabs, take out the meat and chop it fine. 
Add half as much bread crumbs as you have crab meat. 
]\Ioisten Avith cream or cream sauce ; season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, mustard and lemon juice. Clean 
shells and fill them with the mixture. Cover top with 
buttered cracker crumbs, and brown them in a quick 
oven. "Deviled" means highly seasoned. 

Fried Soft=shell Crabs. 

Eemove the sand-bag, wash and dry them. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, roll them in crumbs, then dip in 
egg and again the crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 



74 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Escalloped Crabs. 

Use the meat of boiled crabs chopped fine. To two 
cups of crab meat add the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs and one cup of cream sauce. Season with salt and 
lemon juice. Clean shell, refill them, cover top with 
buttered crumbs, and brown in quick oven. 

Shrimp. 

The best shrimp we find in our market comes from 
the South, and measures from an inch and a half to 
two inches long, and I have seen them in the Southern 
market three inches long. They are a grayish color 
until boiled, when they turn a beautiful pink. They 
are in season from May to October. To prepare for 
use, take off the shell, and with a sharp-pointed knife 
remove the intestinal vein. Shrimps are used for sal- 
ads and sauces. 

Shrimp in Tomato Cases. 

Take small, peeled tomatoes and take out inside, 
being careful to remove all the seeds. Sprinkle with 
salt. Prepare the shrimp by seasoning with salt, pep- 
per, butter and cayenne. Fill the tomato cups, and 
place in casserole, and put in oven until tomatoes are 
done. Serve from casserole. 

Curried Shrimp. 

For one pint of shrimp, use two tablespoons of but- 
ter, half teaspoon curry powder, two level tablespoons 
of flour, one cup of milk or thin cream, one sour apple 
chopped very fine, one teaspoon minced onion. Put 
all the onion, carry powder and flour in butter, and 
cook slowly until apple and onion are tender, then add 
milk or cream. Cook for a few moments and add the 
shrimp whole. 



oystp:rs and shell-fish. 75- 

Frogs and Terrapin. 

The frog and terrapin belong to the reptile family. 
They are considered table delicacies by the epicnre and 
high liver, but by many are not looked upon with 
favor. Only the hind legs of the frog are eaten. 

The terrapin is a specialty of Philadelphia, Balti- 
more and Washington. Terrapins are found in both 
fresh and salt water. The diamond-back salt-water 
terrapin from Chesapeake Bay is considered the best. 
Texas and Florida send some very nice terrapins to the 
Eastern markets. Terrapin is best from January to- 
March. They want to be cooked alive always. 

To Dress the Terrapin. 

Cut off head, and bleed thoroughly. Soak in cold 
water one hour. Boil ten or fifteen minutes. Plunge 
into cold water, and with coarse cloth rub off all the 
black skin. When cleaned, place again in boiling water 
and cook until the shell loosens. W^ill take from one and 
<\ half to two hours, according to age of terrapin. AVhen 
done, plunge again into cold water, and remove the 
under shell, gall-sack, liver and sand-bag, using great 
care not to break the gall-sack. SaveJ the juices that run 
from the meat, by opening over a bowl for that pur- 
pose. The eggs and meat are then ready for use. 

Terrapin Stew. 

This is the favorite way of serving, and the best 
method is the chafing-dish. Make a sauce with one- 
fourth cup butter, two tablespoons flour and one and 
a half cups hot water or stock, as convenient. Pound 
the eo^gs to a paste, and add to sauce. Have pint of 
terrapin meat cut very fine, and add to sauce with 



76 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

lemon juice if liked. Serve on rounds of toast or 
toasted crackers. 

Oysters on the Shell. 

Open the oyster as directed, allowing it to rest on 
the left or deep shell. Arrange on a bed of finely 
broken ice. Five or six, according to the size of your 
plate, is a service for the beginning of the dinner. Pass 
with them quarter of a lemon, salt, pepper and tabasco, 
and, if desired, horseradish. Brown bread sandwiches. 

Oyster Cock=tail. 

8 or 10 oysters. 2 drops tabasco. 

% teaspoon grated V^ teaspoon Worcestershire, 

horseradish. 1 tablespoon tomato catsup. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Have the oyster thoroughly cooled. Mix all the 
seasonings and drop the oysters in. A cocktail glass 
is the prettiest to serve in. 

Cocktail of Little Neck Clams. 

G clams to a service. 2 tablespoons mushroom 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. catsup. 

Few drops of tabasco. Salt to taste. 

Pour 1 to 1% tablespoons on each service. 

Oyster Stew^. 

1 quart cleaned oysters. % cup butter. 

1 quart milk, scalded. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Turn the oysters on strainer, pour half cup cold 
ivater on them, examine and remove all bits of shell. 
Heat the oyster liquor to the boiling-point, and skim 
or strain through a fine sieve to catch any pieces of 
shell. Put the oyster in the liquor and return to 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. 77 

the fire, and heat quickly until the edge of the 
oyster curls. Add oysters and liquor to the scalding 
milk with the butter, salt and pepper, and serve at once 
very hot. 

Oyster en Cream. 

1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons butter. l\-2 cups milk. 
1/2 cup cream. Salt and pepper. 

Make a thin cream sauce with the milk, butter and 
flour, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Clean 
and plump the oysters in their own liquor. Drain and 
add to the cream sauce, and add the half cup thick 
cream, and heat, but do not boil. Serve in patty-shells, 
timl)ale cases or in vol-au-vents. You can add a half 
cup of sliced mushrooms to the creamed oysters if you 
like. 

Roasted Oysters. 

Buy oysters in the shell for roasting. Thoroughly 
clean them by scrubbing with a small, stiff brush. Place 
them in a dripping-pan, and place them in hot oven 
until the shell parts. Serve on the deep halves of the 
shell, season with salt and pepper, and send some 
melted butter in small dish to table with them. 

Fancy Roast. 

One pint of large oysters drained from their liquor 
by turning them onto strainer. Pour over one-half cup 
water, and see that there are no bits of shells on them. 
Put into stewpan, and shake over fire that they do not 
stick to the pan, until the edges curl. Season with salt, 
pepper and butter, and turn over nicely browned toast, 
^nd serve at once. 



78 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Broiled Oysters. 

1 pint selected oysters. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 
% cup cracker crumbs, seasoned. 

Clean oysters and free from moisture. With fork 
lift by tough muscle and dip into the melted butter, 
then into the seasoned cracker crumbs. Place on but- 
tered broiler and broil with hot fire until the edges 
curl, turning them while they broil. Serve very hot. 

Oysters in Brown Sauce. 

1 pint oysters. 1 cup oyster liquor. 

2 tablespoons butter Yi teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. Dash white pepper. 

^2 cup milk. Ys teaspoon paprika. 

Parboil and drain oysters. Strain and reserve the 
liquor. Brown the flour in the butter until well browned, 
but do not burn. Add the milk and oyster liquor and 
seasonings. Serve in patty-shell or fill vol-au-vent. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

1 pint oysters. 4 tablespoons butter. 

IY2 cups cracker crumbs. li cup cream or milk. 

■14 cup oyster liquor. Salt and pepper to season. 

Melt butter and stir onto the crumbs. Put a very 
thin layer in bottom of pan that has been well but- 
tered. Put in layer of oyster, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, add about one tablespoon oyster liquor and 
half the cream. Sprinkle with the crumbs, and repeat 
with the oyster, and have the last layer the buttered 
crumbs. Bake for twenty-five or thirty minutes in 
hot oven. Never have more than two layers of oysters 
in your pan if you wish them to cook uniformly. Scal- 
loped oysters are not looked upon with favor by the 
scientists and doctors, as they do not consider them 
easy to digest. 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-PISII. 79 

Oyster Sauted. 

Clean one pint of oysters. Drain well, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dip into cracker crumbs. Put into 
hot frying-pan two tablespoons butter or same amount 
of good olive oil. Brown on one side, turn and brown 
on the other. 

Oysters in Bacon Blanket. 

Use one pint of large oysters that have been cleaned 
in the usual way. Wrap a very thin slice of bacon 
round each oyster, and fasten with small wooden 
skewer. Place on broiler or in hot pan in the oven, 
and cook until the bacon is brown and crisp. Turn 
during the cooking. 

Fried Oysters. 

Clean and dry large, select oysters. Eoll in cracker 
crumbs, then in egg to which two tablespoons of 
water have been added. The egg should be slightly 
beaten. Use care to cover oysters entirely with the 
egg, then put it back into the cracker crumbs, and 
when thoroughly covered place on paper or platter 
until ready to fry. The seasoning can be sprinkled on 
the oysters or put into the crumbs and thoroughly 
stirred through. The latter way is preferable. Fry in 
deep fat, heated to the blue smoke, and drain on brown 
paper, and serve on folded napkin. Garnish with pars- 
ley and lemon cut into slices the long way. 

Oysters Fried in Batter. 

1 cup flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

% cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

A little white pepper. 

Clean oysters, dip into the batter, fry in deep fat, 
drain and serve. 



80 ' SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Oysters and Celery. 

2 cups celery cut in 1 pint oysters. 
I'^-inch lengths. Va cup butter. 

3 cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook the celery in the water until tender, and drain. 
Have the oysters cleaned and strain the liquor. Add 
the oysters and heat quickly to the boiling-point, and 
skim out the oysters. Make a. sauce by heating the 
butter until it is frothy, then add the flour and salt 
and pepper. Stir until it is frothy, then add half cup 
oyster liquor and half cup water from the celery. Stir 
until it boils up, then add the stewed celery and the 
oysters. Put the mixture into ramequin dishes and 
cover with buttered crumbs. Set into hot oven until 
crumbs are browned, and serve at once. 

Philadelphia Relish to Serve with Oysters. 

2 cups shredded cabbage. 2 sticks tender celery, 

1 green pepper, chopped chopped very fine. 

very fine. ^4 teaspoon mustard seed. 

1 red pepper, chopped very % cup brown sugar. 

fine. 1,4 cup tarragon vinegar. 

Mix all the above ingredients" thoroughly together 
and serve. This is fine with fried oysters. 

Cabbage cold slaw served in cabbage-head, with, 
fried oysters at the base. 

Cabba2:e Slaw. 

">/. cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon mustard. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. Vs teaspoon white pepper. 
2 tablespoons butter. Cup whipped cream. 

Yolks 4 eggs. 

Select a large, flat, well-shaped head of cabbage; 
scoop out the center to form a cup. Shred enough 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISII. 81 

of the cabbage that has been removed tO' fill the cup, 
and dress it with above dressing. 

The Dressing. 

Heat the vinegar to the scald. Mix the flour, sugar, 
yolks of four eggs, mustard, salt and pepper together; 
pour the hot vinegar over it, and return to the saucepan 
and cook for three or four minutes. Cool and add the 
whipped cream just as you go to serve. Fill the cabbage 
cup (or shell) ; place it in the center of a large platter 
covered with parsley. Lay the oysters round the cab- 
bage cup, and serve as a course. 

Little Neck Clams. 

Little neck clams are served on the half-shell for the 
first course at dinner, same as the oyster. 

Roasted Clams. 

Roasted clams are served at clam-bakes. Wash 
them, and place them on stones that have been previ- 
ously heated for the purpose by burning wood on them. 
Ashes are removed, and thin layers of seaweed placed 
on them. Clams are placed on the stones and covered 
wdth seaweed, and a piece of heavy canvas thrown over 
them to retain the steam. 

Steamed Clams. 

Clams for steaming are always bought alive and in 
the shells. Scrub them thoroughly with a brush, chang- 
ing the water several times. They are then placed in 
a large kettle and one-half cup water for four quarts 
of clams. Cover closely and steam until the shells be- 
gin to open, using care that they are not overdone. 
Serve with individual dishes of melted butter and a 
quarter of a lemon. 



82 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Fried Clams. 

Clean, dry and dip in batter, and fry in deep fat, 
and drain on raanilla paper. 

Batter. 

1 cup flour. X{> teaspoon salt. 
% cup milk. 1 egg, well beaten, 

A little cayenne pepper. 

Fried Scallops. 

Place one quart of cleaned scallops in saucepan. 
Cook until they begin to shrivel. Drain, season with 
salt and pepper, roll in crumbs, dip in egg and again 
in crumbs, fry in deep fat, drain, and serve hot. They 
will fry in about one and one-half minutes. 

Plain Lobster. 

Remove the meat from the shell. Arrange on k 
pretty platter, and garnish with small claws. 

Lobster Cocktail. 

Remove meat from lobster and cut in pieces, allow- 
ing about one-half cup to each service. Season each ser- 
vice with two tablespoons each of tomato catsup and 
sherry wine, a little lemon juice, three or four drops 
of tabasco sauce, and salt to taste. Serve in cocktail 
glasses, after chilling. 

Deviled Lobster. 

2 pounds lobster. % teaspoon salt, 
1 cup white sauce. Dash of cayenne. 

T-/(2 teaspoon mustard, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Make white sauce with one tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon flour, one cup milk. Remove from fire and 



OYSTERS AND SlIELL-FISPI, 83 

add mustard, salt, cayenne and lemon juice, all mixed 
together with the lobster meat, which should be cut 
into cubes. 

Scalloped Lobster. 

2 pounds lobster. Few grains cayenne. 

1% cups white sauce. i/. teaspoon salt. 

Yolk 1 hard-boiled egg. y-^ tablespoon lemon juice. 

Make white sauce same as for deviled lobster. Add 
the lobster meat, cut into cubes, with the seasoning to 
the sauce. You can refill the lobster shell, or use but- 
tered scallop-shell. Cover top with buttered crumbs, 
and bake until crumbs are brown. Brush the lobster 
shell with olive oil to preserve the color. 

Curried Lobster. 

The curry is prepared same as scalloped lobster, 
with the addition of one teaspoonful of curry powder 
mixed well with the flour when you are making the 
white sauce. 

Lobster Farci. 

1 cup lobster meat. V> cup buttered crumbs. 

Yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs. Salt to taste. 
1 cup white sauce. % teaspoon white pepper, 

1 tablespoon mmced parsley. 

Rub yolks of eggs very fine, and add to lobster meat, 
w^ith the parsley, sauce and seasonings. Mix all thor- 
oughly. Refill shell, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake until brown. 

Broiled Live Lobster. 

Have your lobster dressed for the broiler in the 
market, and be sure it is alive, and that the intestinal 
vein is removed and the stomach, and have the claws 
cracked. Place on a buttered broiler. Broil seven or 



84 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

eight minutes on flesh side, turn and broil six minutes 
on shell side. Serve with melted butter, or, if pre- 
ferred, a little tomato catsup and Worcestershire, with 
Graham, rye or brown bread. 

Baked Live Lobster. 

Prepare same as for broiled lobster. Cook liver with 
a little butter, and season with salt, Worcestershire 
sauce and cayenne, and spread over top of lobster, and 
bake in hot oven for about eighteen minutes. Serve 
at once. 

Lobster New^burg. 

2 pounds lobster. 2 tablespoons sherry. 

1 cup cream sauce. 2 tablespoons brandy. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Make a white sauce with two tablespoons (level) of 
butter, two tablespoons flour, one cup thin cream, and 
add to this the lobster meat cut in cubes. When well 
heated, add sherry and brandy.- This should be served 
from chafing-dish. 

Lobster a I'Americaine. 

Split and prepare same as for broiled lobster. Place 
in frying-pan, and sprinkle with small onion finely 
chopped, and cook for a few moments. Add to your 
pan one cup of good tomato sauce, cover, and cook in 
oven for a few moments until all is well heated ; it will 
take about eight or ten minutes. Just as you take it 
up add one-quarter cup of sherry wine and tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter. Remove lobster to platter and 
strain sauce over it. Garnish with small claws and 
serve very hot. 



OYSTERS AND SHELI.-FISH. 85 

Lobster and Mushrooms. 

2 pounds lobster. ^4 cup sherry wine. 

y^ pound mushrooms. Salt to taste. 

1 cup white sauce. ^4 teaspoon paprika. 

Cook the mushrooms broken in pieces in tablespoon 
of butter for about five minutes, then add the cream 
sauce, then the lobster meat, cut in small pieces, and 
when thoroughly hot add the wine. Remove to serving- 
dish and decorate with parsley, toast or puff paste, if 
you should have any left over. Each person has his 
own individual ideas of decoration, but in any case 
use the small claws with what you like or have at hand. 

Lobster Patties. 

Lobster patties are very nice made same as creamed 
lobster, wdth addition of a half cup of white meat of 
chicken and a half cup of minced oysters that have been 
plumped in their own liquor. 

Lobster Canapes. 

For this use the meat from one medium-sized lob- 
ster, cut into fine pieces. Add to this the tomally fat 
(which is the green fat or liver of the lobster) ; add 
to this two tablespoons of olive oil and three-fourths 
of a tablespoon of lemon juice, to moisten it w^ell. Cut 
thin slices of bread into any shape desired, and fry 
them a delicate brown in butter. Spread with canape 
mixture, and garnish wnth parsley and thin slices of 
lemon. Serve at the beginning of the meal as an ap- 
petizer. 



86 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER X. 
BEEF. 

BEEF ranks first in meats, and is considered the 
most nutritious, and is the most largely consumed 
of the different meats. In meat we find chiefly: Fibrin, 
albumen, fat, gelatine, mineral matter and water. 

The fibrin is the substance that causes the blood to 
coagulate when shed. Fibrin is insoluble in both hot 
and cold water. 

Albumen is found in the blood and muscle. It is 
soluble in cold water, and coagulates in hot water or 
by heat. Coagulation begins at 134° F. H., and becomes 
a solid at 160^ F. TI. This shows that we should cook- 
to get the juices out at a low degree of heat, and that 
when we broil our steak, to have a high temperature, 
to sear the surface quickly. 

Gelatine is a tasteless, transparent substance ob- 
tained by boiling, in water, muscles, skin, bone, tendon, 
cartilege, ligament or membrane of animals. By the 
boiling we dissolve the tissue and convert it into gela- 
tine. Gelatine is a nitrogenous substance, but a large 
quantity passes out of the system unchanged. 

Fat is found distributed in layers directly under 
the skin, in the bone and intermingled throughout the 
flesh. Fat as a food is a great heat-giver and force- 
producer. The human body is compared to a lamp, and 
the fat is what supplies the lamp in a great measure 
and keeps it burning. 

Mineral matter is found in the bone, and it consists 
of calcium phosphate and sodium chloride (the latter 



BEEF. 87 

being common salt), and is found in the blood and 
throughout the tissues. 

Water makes up a large per cent, of the weight of 
the animal. 

The beef is divided by splitting the animal through 
the center of the backbone, and each part is called a side 
of beef. Pour hundred pounds is a good weight for 
a side of beef. 

The tenderest and most expensive cuts come from 
the part of the animal w^here the muscles are but little 
used. There you wdll find the meat much finer grained, 
but the tougher pieces will have more juice and much 
higher flavor in most instances. The expensive tender 
cuts of the meat can be broiled and roasted, while the 
tougher cuts must be cooked very slowly, by boiling or 
in casserole. Cover closely and cook slowly at a low 
degree of heat. 

Divisions of Meat. 

Meat is divided into fore and hind quarters. In the 
hind-quarter you find the flank, round, rump and loin. 
In the fore-quarter are five prime ribs, five chuck ribs, 
neck, sticking-piece, rattle rand, brisket and fore-shin. 
Other parts of the creature used for food are the brains, 
tongue, heart, liver, kidneys, tail, suet and tripe. 

Different Temperatures to Cook the Meat in. 

For soup, put into cold water and bring slowly to 
the boiling-point, and ke.ep at a low degree of heat for 
about four or five hours. This brings out the juices, 
softens and dissolves the tissues, and gives the stock the 
jelly-like consistency when cold. For tough cuts of 
meat we put them into boiling water and close the pores 
quickly, then cook slowly until tender. 



88 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Best Cuts for Beefsteak. 

The porterhouse, sirloin, cross-cut of the rump, and 
second and third cuts from top of the round. Steaks 
must be cut thick if you want them to be tender — from 
one inch to two and a half inches. 

To Broil Steak. 

Scrape outside fat with knife, and, if you desire 
to do so, remove some of the fat. Wipe the meat with 
cheesecloth wrung out of cold water. With some of the 
fat grease the ribs of the broiler, which must be hot. 
Place the steak on broiler and place directly under the 
flame ; as soon as one side is seared, turn and sear the 
other. Make at least four turns during the broiling, 
to keep the juices in. An inch steak will take six or 
seven minutes to broil if liked pretty well done, or five 
minutes if liked rare. Remove to hot platter and sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt. 

Beefsteak with Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

Broiled steak, spread with maitre d 'hotel butter. 

Planked Beefsteak. 

Broil for seven minutes a porterhouse steak cut one 
and a half inches thick. Butter a plank, and arrange 
a border of potatoes close to the edge with pastry-bag 
and rose tube. Remove the steak to the plank and 
place in oven until the steak is done and potatoes 
browned. Spread steak with butter, season with salt 
and pepper. Garnish with mushroom caps and small 
tomatoes or red peppers. The tomatoes should be sauted 
in butter, also the mushroom caps. The red peppers 
also make a nice garnish. 



BEEF. «y 

Beefsteak with Oyster Blanket. 

Use beefsteak one and a half inches thick. Broil 
fifteen to eighteen minutes, and remove to platter. 
Spread with butter, and season with salt and pepper. 
•Clean a pint of large oysters and cover steak with them. 
Dot them with butter, and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and slight shaking of paprika. Place on grate of 
hot oven, and cook until oysters are plump and edges 
curled. Send to table at once. Garnish with curled 
celery and parsley. 

Mignon Fillets with Sauce. 

Cut slices from the end of the fillet about three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Press and trim into circles; 
dredge with salt and pepper, and saute in butter. Serve 
with Bearnaise sauce, resting each fillet on a circle of 
toast. Serve with string beans in cream or Brussel 
sprouts. 

Broiled Fillets of Beef. 

Cut slices from tenderloin of beef; wipe, shape and 
place on the w^ell-greased broiler, and broil under the 
gas flame for five or six minutes, according to the thick- 
ness of the fillets. Serve with brown mushroom sauce. 

Tenderloin Cutlets with Chestnuts. 

Cook small fillets of beef in butter, and serve round 
a mound of chestnut puree. 

Sauted Fillets with Mushroom Caps. 

Prepare the same as the mignon fillets, and saute 
the mushroom caps in butter until they are well done, 
and place one on top of each fillet. Serve with a rich 
brown sauce, highly seasoned, and have the garnish of 
red and green sweet-peppers cut into ribbons. 



90 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Chateaubriand Steak. 

Cut fillets from the center about one and a half 
inches thick. Flatten and shape with a cleaver, first 
removing all skin and fat. Broil for about eighteen or 
twenty minutes. Serve with maitre d 'hotel butter, or, 
if preferred, a brown sauce with a seasoning of lemon 
juice, parsley and pimentoes. Cut into rings. 

Hamburg Steak. 

One pound of lean, raw beef from round is best. 
Cut very fine, highly seasoned with salt, pepper and 
a little onion juice, and one egg slightly beaten. The 
best and most wholesome way of cooking this is to 
make into an oblong shaped loaf, and brown in a 
heavy frying-pan on all sides, then add to the pan 
one tablespoonful of butter and half a cup of water 
with which to baste the meat. Cover closely and cook 
slowly, basting frequently. 

Doctors will not allow Hamburg steak served from 
diet kitchen, as the meat prepared this way is very 
solid and compact, and is hard to mix w^ith the juices 
of the stomach, and gives the digestive organs of the 
sick and convalescent too much to do. 

Roast Beef. 

Best cuts of beef for roasting are the first three 
fancy ribs, tip of sirloin, and back of rump. The lat- 
ter cut makes a desirable roast for a large family, and 
is very juicy and always gives plenty of dish gravy. 
Rib roast contains more fat than either of the others, 
and sells cheaper for this reason. 

To Roast Beef. — Wipe and put on rack in dripping- 
pan, skin side down. Place in hot oven and sear the. 



BEEF. 91 

meat quickly, so as to keep the juices in. Place some 
of the heart suet on top of the meat to render out to 
do the basting with, and in case you have no suet, spread 
some lard over the top of the beef; never baste with 
water, as water-basted meat is not roasted, but steamed 
meat. Place one tablespoonful of salt in corner of 
roasting-pan, and dip it up over the roast as you baste. 
After the meat is well seared and pores closed by the 
heat of the oven, you lower your heat and baste every 
ten minutes. When half done, turn that the top may 
get well 'browned. I never use flour on meat I am 
roasting. Rib roast weighing six or seven pounds will 
require fifteen minutes to the pound. Rump roast 
Aveighing ten pounds will require one hour and fifty 
minutes rare, or two hours well done. A roast of beef, 
if properly cared for, will leave nothing in the roasting- 
pan but the fat. 

To make the gravy, take roast from pan and pour 
off ail the fat but about four tablespoons. Place pan 
on hot part of range, and put into fat four level table- 
spoons of flour and brown it nicely, but use care that 
you do not burn it. Add slowly one and a half cups of 
boiling water. Cook five minutes, and season with salt 
and pepper. Strain, if there are lumps in it, and put 
in gravy-boat and send to table. The best gravy for 
roast beef is on the dish after the carving. 

To Cakve a Roast of Beef. — Have a very sharp 
knife, and always cut across the grain if you wish the 
meat to be tender. 

Yorkshire Timbales. 

2 cups milk. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. i/i; teaspoon salt. 

Place flouv in mixing-bowl and make a well in the 



92 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

center; put m the salt and eggs, and add milk slowly;, 
beat the flour all in smooth and add remaining milk 
and beat thoroughly. Pour into well-greased muffin- 
pans, cook for thirty-five or forty minutes, and baste 
with some of the fat from roast after they are well 
risen. Serve with the roast. The old Romans served 
this with their roast of beef under the name of "An- 
sonia cakes," which I found in Kurwen's "Host and 
Guest." 

Larded Fillet of Beef. 

The long fillet of beef is found under the loin of the 
beef, and the short fillet under the rump. When the 
long fillet is removed there are no porterhouse steaks, 
and for this reason it is more expensive than the short. 
To prepare, you remove all fat, veins and tendons. 
Skewer into shape, and lard upper side with the grain 
of the meat. Place on rack in pan, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and dredge lightly with flour. Place 
a few pieces of salt pork from the larding in bottom 
of pan. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven, basting sev- 
eral times. Remove to hot platter, take out skewers, 
and garnish with parsley and small red radishes or 
watercress, with yolks of eggs sprinkled over them by 
pressing the e^g through a potato ricer. 

Fillet of Beef with Vegetables. 

Sear your fillet on the top of range with two-thirds 
cup of butter in a frying-pan. When the butter is 
quite hot, put in the fillet and turn frequently until 
every side is nicely browned, then turn occasionally 
until done, which will require about thirty minutes. 
Remove to a hot serving-dish and garnish with a cupful 
each of cooked peas, carrots and sweet-peppers (red 



BEEF. 93:. 

and green) ; cut into fancy shapes, well seasoned, and 
serve with — 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. — Use one-third cup of the 
fat from the pan in which the meat was cooked, and 
brown four level tablespoons of flour in it. Add one 
cup brown soup stock, one-third cup of liquor from 
the mushrooms, one cup of the caps cut into slices, and 
sauted in butter about five minutes. Turn mushrooms 
in sauce and serve in gravy-boat with the fillet. 

Pot Roast of Beef. 

Five or six pounds from the round of beef. Place 
some pieces of suet in bottom of deep pot, and try out 
the fat. Wipe off the beef and brown the roast on 
all sides. When nicely browned add three cups of hot 
water and place on stove where it will cook slowly. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover closely, and cook 
for two and a half or three hours. Good warm or cold. 

Pressed Flank of Beef. 

Get any amount you may desire; wipe and cut off 
any superfluous fat. Place in kettle and cover with 
boiling water. Add salt, pepper, small piece of bay 
leaf not larger than the thumb nail, and any bones you 
may have on hand from steak or roast of beef. Cook 
until the meat is in shreds. See to it you have but 
little liquor in the kettle when meat is done. Arrange 
meat in shallow dish and pour the liquor over it. Cover 
and press with weight on top of plate. Serve cold, cut 
very thin. This is very nice served for luncheon with 
a salad of left-over vegetables dressed with French 
dressing and Graham bread sandwiches. 



94 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Corned Beef. 

The best cut of corned beef is the fancy brisket. 
It costs more than the rattle rand, and is known by 
the selvage on the lower side and the absence of bone. 
The upper end of the brisket has the most lean meat. 

To Boil Corned Beef. 

Wash and tie into shape. Put in kettle and cover 
with cold water. Bring slowly to boiling-point. Skim 
and cook very slowdy until tender. If the boiling is 
done too rapidly, the meat w411 cut stringy. Let it 
partly cool in the water in which it w-as cooked. 

Braised Beef Tongue. 

Put a fresh tongue into boiling water, and cook very 
slowly for two hours. Take from the water and re- 
move skin and roots. Shape and place in casserole, and 
surround with celery, onions, carrots and turnips — 
about half a cup of each. Pour over all about three or 
four cups of brow^n sauce. 

Sauce for Tongue. — Brown two tablespoons of flour 
in two tablespoons of butter until well browned. Add 
gradually three cups of water in which the tongue was 
cooked. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
pour one cup strained tomato over all. Cover closely, 
and place casserole in oven or on top of range where it 
will cook very slowly for two hours. Serve from casse- 
role, serving each person with some of each vegetable 
with the sauce. 

Stuffed Beef Heart. 

Use heart from young bullock so it will be tender, 
and clean well. Stuff with bread crumbs, seasoned with 
celer^^ parsley, onion, salt, pepper and one green pep- 



BEEF. 95 

per cut into ribbons. Cook the onion, celery and pep- 
per in two tablespoons of butter until tender; add them 
to the bread crumbs and moisten all with milk, or an 
egg if preferred. Open the heart on one side and add 
the dressing; tie or sew to shape. Place a plate in 
saucepan, rest the heart on it, cover with boiling water, 
and cook until the heart is tender. When done, place 
in dripping-pan, and pour over it the juice in which 
it was cooked, and place in the oven to brown. Make 
sauce in pan and serve. 

Boiled Tongue. 

You cook a corned or smoked tongue same as corn 
beef. The smoked tongue wants to be well washed, 
and soaked overnight in cold water. Let tongues cool 
slightly so you can handle them, when j^ou remove the 
skin and roots. Skewer into shape, if you wish to put 
them in aspic, a very pretty way to serve them. 

Dried Beef Relish. 

Use dried beef cut very thin and pulled into shreds. 
Put into a saucepan in a little hot water and simmer on 
stove a few moments. Pour water off, and dry beef 
over fire. Add butter and sprinkle lightly with flour. 
Stir as it browns, and when all is well browned pour 
on three-quarters cup of milk, and let it cook up and 
remove to serving-dish. Scrambled eggs are nice served 
with this, piling the meat in the center and using the 
eggs for a border with parsley for a garnish. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Have butcher cut liver about one-third of an inch 
thick. Remove the thin outside skin and veins. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. 



96 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Fry the bacon in frying-pan, and lift on point of fork 
to let fat drip off. Drain on hot platter lined with 
brown paper, and keep hot while you fry the liver in 
the hot bacon fat. Fry brown on both sides, but use 
care that the liver is not overdone or hard. Serve on 
hot platter, with the bacon laid round, serving each 
help with some of the bacon. 

Broiled Liver. 

Prepare same as for fried liver, and have your 
broiler well greased and turn often. Cook about five 
or six minutes. Remove to hot platter, spread with 
butter, and season with salt and pepper. 

Braised Liver. 

Trim liver in shape, and skewer. Place in deep pan 
and place some pieces of salt pork on top, or make 
lardoons from the pork and lard top. Put pork trim- 
ming in pan round the liver, also a minced onion and 
little celery cut very fine, a few peppercorns and two 
cups of brown stock or water. Cover closely and bake 
slowly for one and three-quarter hours; uncover and 
brown one-half hour longer. Remove liver, strain the 
liquor and make a brown gravy with it by using two 
tablespoons of butter and two of flour. Melt butter, add 
the flour and pour on the liquor. Serve round the liver. 

Fried Tripe in Batter. 

Make a batter with three-fourths cup flour, one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, one-half cup milk, one egg well 
beaten, one teaspoon vinegar, one teaspoon melted but- 
ter. 

Wipe tripe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
batter and fry in hot fat; drain and serve. The tripe 



BEEF. 97 

must be boiled until very tender before using in any- 
way. 

Broiled Tripe. 

Honeycomb tripe is best for broiling. Wipe tripe 
drj% and dip in fine-sifted cracker crumbs. Dip in 
melted butter, and again in the crumbs. Place on well- 
greased broiler, and broil for four or five minutes. 
Expose the smooth side to the fire first for two or 
three minutes, then turn honeycomb side. Remove to 
hot platter; butter, salt and pepper, and serve quickly. 

Tripe in Cream Sauce. 

Make cream sauce with two tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one cup milk and one good-sized onion 
minced fine. Cook onion in butter. Add flour as soon 
as it becomes frothy, pour on the milk, then add the 
tripe that is tender, and cut into small pieces about one 
and a half inches long by one inch wide. Cook for five 
minutes until all is very hot, turn into dish for serving, 
and sprinkle with minced parsley. 

Creole Tripe. 

Creole tripe is made same as the creamed tripe, using 
strained tomatoes instead of the milk for the sauce, 
and one finely cut sweet-pepper cooked in the butter 
with the onion. Also one-third cup of mushrooms makes 
a nice addition to the different flavors. 

Ways of Warming Over Beef. 

Trim what is left from roast of beef and put some 
pieces of pork over top. Reheat quickly in oven, and 
reheat the gravy left from the day before and serve 
with it. Of course, this is not so good as the first day, 
and many prefer it served cold. 



98 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Roast Beef with Spanish Sauce. 

Mal^e sauce with two tablespoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, two red sweet-peppers, and one onion, all 
cut fine. Cook onion and peppers in butter, add flour, 
then one and a half cups of tomatoes (without being" 
strained), one tablespoon sugar, salt and pepper. Cook 
all for about five minutes, then add the beef cut very 
thin. Let it get hot and serve at once. 

Corn-beef Hash. 

Use cooked cold beef, and remove skin and gristle^ 
and, if too fat, part of the fat. Chop the meat, and add 
equal parts of cold boiled chopped potatoes. Season 
with salt and pepper and one tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Moisten with milk or cream, trrn into a 
hot buttered frying-pan and place on the stove where 
it will brown slowly. Fold same as omelet, and turn 
onto hot platter, (This is fine.) 



VEAL. 99 



CHAPTER XI. 

VEAL. 

GOOD veal is known by the flesh being a 'pinkish 
color and the fat white. Veal is much less nutri- 
tious than beef or mutton, and when taken from too 
young an animal is apt to be very unwholesome, and 
will in many cases provoke stomach disturbances. Veal 
and lamb are not improved by long hanging, and want 
to be served soon after killing and dressing. 

Veal is divided into fore and hind quarters. The 
fore-quarter is subdivided into neck, breast and 
shoulder; the hind-quarter into loin, leg and knuckle. 
Cutlets, fillets and cushion are cut from the thick part 
of leg. Veal is found in best condition during the 
spring, but is in the market all the year. Veal must 
be thoroughly cooked and well seasoned, as the meat 
is deficient in flavor, but is much richer in gelatine. 
Its heat-producing qualities are small, and for this 
reason it wants to be served with rice, potatoes, jelly, 
etc., these supplying the elements lacking in the veal. 
Veal is sometimes kept until five or six weeks old, and 
fed on milk and all the different vegetables until the 
fall, when it is killed and served same as beef, and is 
very nice. 

Roast Cushion of Veal. 

Use a piece from the thick part of the leg. Remove 
the bone, wipe the meat and fill with stuffing made 
same as for chicken or turkey. Sew or skewer into 
shape, place in dripping-pan on meat-rack, and place 



100 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

over the top some bits of salt pork, and use butter and 
water for the basting. Cook for three and a half hours, 
basting every fifteen minutes. Serve with a brown 
gravy made in the pan after the veal is removed. The 
gas wants to be kept low so the pan does not burn, 
and at the same time cooks the veal slowly so it will 
be more digestible. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Use the veal from the leg, and have the cuts about 
half an inch thick. Wipe and shape into nice pieces 
for serving; sprinkle with salt and pepper and roll in 
flour, egg and* crumbs. Fry slowly until well browned, 
then remove the cutlets to saucepan on back of stove, 
and make a brown sauce in pan in which the cutlets 
were cooked by using two spoonfuls of flour and two 
cups boiling water. Salt and pepper to taste, strain 
over the cutlets in saucepan and cook slowly for thirty 
or forty minutes. The simmering burner on gas stove 
does the work fine. 

Scotch Veal Collops. 

Use two cutlets from the best part of the round; 
pound as thin as possible, and with scissors cut into 
round shape, having each collop about the size of a small 
butter pat, putting a small wooden skewer into each 
one. Roll in flour, and season with salt and pepper, 
and brown in equal parts of lard and butter. Remove 
to saucepan in which you have placed the little bones 
and all small, stringy pieces unfit to form into collops, 
using care to stand the collop with skewer pointing up. 
Make sauce same as for the cutlets, and simmer for 
thirty minutes, or until tender. Serve round a potato 
wall, with skewers all pointing up. Fill the center of 



VK\U 101 

the potatoes with asparagus tips, first lining the center 
of the wall with curled French lettuce. If you prefer 
it, you can use peas instead of the asparagus. This is 
a beautiful dish, and makes a company luncheon with 
the addition of a nice salad of any kind you like. 

Breaded Veal Chops. 

You can use loin or rib chop as you choose. Wipe, 
season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, then in egg 
and into fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat until 
well browned on both sides. Place the chops on hot 
platter with Spanish rissotto in center of dish. A very 
pretty garnish is to lay each chop in leaf of curled 
lettuce in a circle on a chop-dish. Every house should 
be the possessor of a chop-dish, as they add much to 
the service. With the rissotto the chops will need no 
sauce. 

Loin of Veal a la Jardiniere. 

Use four or five pounds of loin of veal. Wipe well 
and season with salt and pepper. Brown veal in one- 
third cup of butter in stewpan, turning to get all sides 
well browned, being careful not to let it burn, which 
it Avill do very readily if care is not used. Add one 
and a half cups of hot water. Cook slowly until the 
meat is tender, adding water as it cooks away, but do 
not put in too much at once ; it will take about three 
or three and a half cups in all. The state of the at- 
mosphere makes a great difference in the time the 
water will last in your stewpan. Remove meat, thicken 
the stock in the pan with flour, and add what water 
you need for the sauce. Season well, and surround the 
meat on platter with turnips, carrots and peas, having 
the carrots and turnips cut into small dice, and cooked 



102 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

and seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, and about 
two tablespoons of rich cream; the peas with only salt 
and pepper. You can pile the vegetables in bunches 
and place parsley or cress between each bunch, or ar- 
range in borders, as the fancy of the person may sug- 
gest. 

Meat Pie with Veal. 

Take two or three pounds of veal, lean meat prefer- 
able. Cut into small pieces and put on in boiling water. 
When the boiling-point is reached, skim carefully, and 
cook slowly until the meat is tender. It will take about 
one hour, and bear in mind that fast cooking will tend 
to harden the meat. At the end of the hour season 
with salt and pepper, a teaspoon of grated onion, and 
one tablespoon of rice (that has been cooked). You 
will need about three cups of stock; if you have more 
in your saucepan, boil until you reduce it. Make a 
crust same as for baking-powder biscuit, except you 
add one tablespoon more shortening. Roll one-fourth 
inch thick, and line sides and ends of baking-pan. 
Turn into pan meat and gravy, and add one pint of 
cleaned oysters or one cup mushrooms. Put on top 
crust to fit pan, with an opening cut in the middle to 
let the steam pass off. Cook in hot oven until crust 
is nicely browned, and serve from pan in which it was 
cooked, putting a square of the browned crust on each 
service. This can be made without the oysters, but 
they are a great addition. 

Scalloped Veal. 

Use the veal left from the cushion of veal. Cut 
very thin into' small pieces about one inch square, put 
a layer into a buttered baking-dish with a very thin 



VEAL. 103 

laj^er of coarse crumbs, then another aver of meat, and 
so on until the dish is full. Over the top put a thin 
crust made of the crumbs wet with milk and one egg. 
Before putting on the crust you moisten the meat with 
a well-seasoned broth, and if you have none, you can 
make some from the bones and bits of meat from which 
you have been cutting, and use any gravy left from 
the roast. A little strained tomato makes a nice addi- 
tion to the broth. You will want to bake this for 
about one hour in slow oven. 

Veal Stew^ with Dropped Dumplins^s. 

Wipe two pounds of lean veal carefully and put into 
saucepan, and cook slowly, well covered, until meat is 
very tender, using about one quart of boiling water. 
You will want to cook it about one and a half hours. 
An onion peele'd and put in whole is a nice addition. 
When the veal is tender thicken your stock about as 
thick as cream. Remove the veal and onion, and make 
drop dumplings with one cup of flour, one teaspoon of 
butter, one and a half teaspoons baking-powder, one 
egg, one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspo.on white 
pepper, and milk enough to make a stiff dough 
that will drop from the point of the spoon. Dip the 
spoon in the boiling gravy, and while hot take up a 
tablespoonful of the dough and drop into the boiling 
liquor. When all has been added, cover closely and 
cook for ten minutes. Place meat on serving-dish, and 
put the dumplinixs round with the sauce from the sauce- 
pan. A border of cooked and well-seasoned carrots, 
that have been cut into shreds or diced as you prefer, 
is a nice garnish round the platter. If you serve the 
carrots, and have any of the nice green carrot tops, use 



104 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

it as a green for the dish instead of parsley. The car- 
rot top is a very pretty garnish. 

Veal Birds. 

Use slices of veal from the leg cut very thin. Re- 
move fat, bone and any skinny pieces. Pound well, 
and cut into pieces about three inches long and two 
inches wide, using each strip to make a bird. Chop the 
trimming from the veal very fine, with a piece of salt 
pork about one inch square. Add to the chopped meat 
and pork about one-half a measure of fine crumbs — 
either bread or cracker crumbs. Season with salt, pep- 
per, a little paprika, thyme, onion juice, and very little 
lemon juice. Moisten with egg, spread each piece of 
meat with the mixture, roll and fasten with skewers 
into shape. Place into buttered bake-pan, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, and place in 
hot oven. As soon as they are hot add water and b*it- 
ter to keep from burning and cook slowly, basting 
every few moments until they are tender. Add one 
cup of cream to pan the last twenty minutes of the 
cooking, and baste thoroughly before taking from the 
oven. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds lean veal, freed from skin and mem- 
brane; chop fine or put through a meat-chopper. Add 
half pound salt pork chopped fine, six crackers (rolled), 
half cup thin cream, one and a half tablespoons lemon 
juice, one tattle^poon salt, a little grated onion or onion 
juice. Mix well and pilace in brick-shaped bread-pan. 
Brush top with white of egg, and baste with pork fat. 
It will take about two and a half hours to bake. Unless 



VEAL. 105 

the pan is quit^ large, the cooking wants to be done in. 
slow oven, or the meat will become hard. 

Minced Veal on Toast. 

Remove the skin and gristle from remnants of cold 
roast veal, and chop the meat. Put into a well-buttered 
plan, and season with salt and pepper; add a little 
cream and flour. Stir and pour over small pieces of 
buttered toast. 

Creamed Veal. 

One pint of cold veal cut into small cubes, one cup 
of white sauce made with one table"spoon flour, one 
tablespoon butter and one cup hot milk. Season with 
pepper and salt and a little onion juice. After sauce 
boils, put in the pieces of veal. Turn onto hot platter 
and edge with points of puff paste made from the pieces 
of paste left over from your pie or patty shells. 

Boiled Dinner. 

Three pounds lean veal wiped and put into kettle 
with plenty of boiling water to cook meat and vege- 
tables. When the meat is half done, ad'd potatoes, car- 
rots, turnips, onions and half head of cabbage, cut into- 
three pieces lengthways so it wnll keep its shape. The 
onions, carrots and turnips will take longer to cook,, 
and must be added before the cabbage and potatoes. 
Serve the meat on hot platter and surround with the 
vegetables. This is a recipe fro-m a New England 
woman who was a beautiful coak. 



106 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XII. 
LAMB AND MUTTON. 

THE flesh of the mutton is very nutritious and easy 
of digestion. It is ranked with beef as a nutrient, 
but the fat of the mutton is rather difficult to digest, 
for the reason that it contains a large per cent, of stearic 
acid. The lamb, like the veal, wants to be cooked soon 
after the animal has been killed and dressed, but the 
mutton wants to be hung and ripened. The sheep 
wants to be three years old to furnish the best, and 
should be ripened for two or three weeks where the 
temperature is uniform. If hung out and frozen, it 
must be cooked as soon as it begins to thaw, but we 
get them now from the cold storage where they do not 
reach the freezing-point. The Southdown mutton, held 
in such high esteem in England, is often cut from the 
sheep older than three years. We are now producing 
mutton on our Southern mountains that is said to be 
just as good as the English Southdown. Young lamb, 
six weeks or three months old, is known in tnc market 
as spring lamb; it is found in market from January, 
but is scarce, high-priced, and has very little flavor. 
The one-year-old lamb is called a yearling. The strong 
flavor of the mutton, that is so disagreeable to many, 
comes from the penetration through the skin of the oil 
from the wool. This is obviated by removing the pink 
skin and trimming off the superfluous fat from the 
outside. Mutton must be fat to be good, the flesh a pink, 
and the fat very white and firm. In serving mutton 
be sure your plates are very warm, so the fat will not 



LAMB AND MUTTON. 107 

harden to disfigure the dish and spoil the appetite. 
Lamb is divided into two parts by cutting through 
the entire length of the backbone, then subdivided into 
fore and hind quarters. Eight ribs are left on the 
hind-'juarter ; these are cut into chops and are known 
as rib chops. The meat between these ribs and the leg- 
is called loin or kidney chops. On one side of the bone 
of the loin chop we find a small piece of tenderloin, 
which corresponds to the porterhouse steak in the beef. 
Rib chops which have the bone cut short and scraped 
are called French chops. The leg is sold whole for 
boiling or roasting. The fore-quarter can be boned, 
stuffed and rolled, and roasted or boiled. For a loin 
of mutton the saddle is removed before the creature 
is cut down the back. Lamb chops can easily be told 
from the mutton by the red color of the bone. In the 
mutton the bone is white and much harder than the 
lamb. IMutton usually is preferred to be a little under- 
done, but lamb wants to be well cooked. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Remove skin and superfluous fat; trim and put on 
in kettle of boiling water. Bring quickly to the boiling- 
point ; boil four or five minutes, and skim. Then finish 
the cooking at a place on the range where it will cook 
slowly. Add one tablespoon of salt, small piece of red 
pepper, one onion, one turnip and one carrot when 
about half done. Serve with caper sauce. 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chops. 

Wipe chops, and remove skin and any fat that can 
be spared. A little should be left on, as many people 
are fond of it. If a loin chop, roll the flank and fasten 
with a skewer. Broil same as beefsteak. Remove to 



108 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

hot pan and butter, and arrange on chop plate or plat- 
ter, very hot. Decorate with parsley or watercress and 
small red radishes. 

Pan=broilcd Chops. 

Prepare same as the above, and put in hissing hot 
frj'ing-pan. As soon as one side is well seared, turn 
and sear the other. Turn often, using knife and fork 
that the surface may not be pierced. Cook five minutes 
if liked rare, and from nine to ten if liked well done. 
Press the outside fat to the pan so it will brown. When 
done place on hot pan and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, and spread with butter. You can serve tomato 
sauce with them if you like. The tomato sauce wants 
,to be highly seasoned and thick, and poured on hot 
platter. Chops arranged round the edge; parsley gar- 
nish. 

Mutton Chops a la Maintenon. 

Have six chops cut one and a half inches thick. 
With sharp knife split the chop to the bone ; this 
forms a pocket, which you fill with a mushroom prepa- 
ration which you have prepared previously and have 
ready at hand. Put a teaspoon or more into each 
pocket. Press the meat together and fasten securely 
with small wooden skewers. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip into beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs. 
Saute in butter or first-class olive oil for five minutes, 
turning as they brown. 

Mushroom Preparation. 

Put into saucepan three level tablespoons butter, 
half cup chopped mushrooms, one tablespoon grated 
onion. Stir and cook all together for five minutes, 



LAMB AND MUTTON. 109 

until onion and mushrooms are cooked. Add three 
tablespoons of flour (level), a pinch of salt, a little 
cayenne pepper. Stir until the flour is well blended, 
then pour on half a cup of stock or cream; the cream 
is best if j-ou have it. Serve with Spanish rissotto on 
chop-plate. 

Boned and Roasted Leg of Mutton. 

Your butcher will bone the leg for you if you order 
it so, or you can easily remove the bone with small 
boning-knife. Wipe, remove skin and fat, stuff and 
sew into shape. Place in deep pan and brown on all 
sides in three tablespoons of butter in which you have 
a little onion, slice of carrot and turnip. Add four 
cups boiling water, cover closely and cook for two and. 
a half hours, uncover and brown. iRemove from pan 
to hot platter, and make a brown sauce in the pan in 
which the mutton was cooked by first pouring off all 
the fat in the pan and add two tablespoons of butter 
and two tablespoons of flour (rounding, or four of each 
level). Brown the butter, add the flour and stir until 
well browned, then add the liquor you poured out of 
the pan, first straining it, and removing the mutton 
fat, and cook and serve in a gravy-boat. If desired, 
you can turn half a glass of currant jelly into this 
sauce, and return leg of mutton to pan and baste well 
for about ten minutes. This will give it the taste of 
venison. 

Stuffing. 

l^A cups cracker crumbs. 1 tablespoon onion, minced. 

2 tablespoons melted but- ^'^ teaspoon thyme. 

ter. 2 tablespoons water. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 



110 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Roast Lamb. 

Eemove the caul fat which usually covers the le^ 
of lamb when sent from the market. Wipe the meat 
well with wet cloth. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
place on rack in dripping-pan, place in hot oven and 
close the pores of the meat, then add two tablespoons 
of good, sweet lard to the pan, and baste every ten or 
fifteen minutes. Cook slowly for about two hours. 
Serve with mint sauce, or gravy made in the pan-, if 
you like. Make same as for roast beef. 

Crown Roast of Lamn,. 

Select the ribs from two loins. Scrape the meat 
from the bones as far as the lean meat, and trim off 
the backbone. Shape each piece in semi-circle, to form 
the crown. Have the ends of the bones cut evenly and 
not too long. Cut an opening in some small pieces of 
fat salt pork to prevent bone from burning. Roast in 
moderate oven for one and a half hours, using care 
that the gas is kept low during the time. Place on hot 
platter, and fill center with potato chips or puree of 
chestnuts, peas, or any vegetable you desire to serve 
with it. 

Curried Mutton. 

This can be made from cooked or uncooked meat. 
If uncooked, use the fore-shoulder cut into pieces about 
an inch each way, using care to remove all fat, skin 
and muscle. Cook in boiling water for a few moments 
until the scum comes to the top, which you remove; 
cover closely and cook until the meat is quite tender. 
Season the meat with a little thyme, parsley, salt and 
a few pepper-corns during the cooking. When meat 



LAMB AND MUTTON. Ill 

is done strain the liquor, remove the meat and make 
curry sauce from the liquor that you have strained. 

Curry Sauce. 

Two rounding' tablespoons of butter, two rounding 
tablespoons of flour, one onion minced and cooked for a 
few moments in the butter^ half teaspoon curry powder 
mixed Avith the flour. Add flour and curry to the 
butter and onion. Stir and mix well, and add two 
cups of the strained liquor from the meat. When well 
blended add the meat to the sauce, reheat, and serve 
with border of* cooked rice. 

Scotch Broth. 

Use three or four pounds of mutton from the fore- 
quarter. Cut meat into cubes with scissors, put in 
kettle and cover with three pints of cold water, bringing 
to the boiling-point quickly. Skim and add three- 
fourths of a cup of barley that has been soaked over- 
night. Simmer until the meat is tender. It will take 
from one to one and a half hours, cooking slowly. It 
is well to cover the bones with cold water in another 
saucepan and cook while the meat and barley cook. 
Strain the water from, bones onto meat when tender. 
Put two tablespoons of butter into frying-pan and 
cook one cup each of onion, celery, carrot and turnip 
for a few moments, and add these to the meat and 
barley, and cook until the vegetables are tender. 
Thicken with butter and flour rubbed together. 

Mutton Broth. 

3 pounds neck of mutton. 2 tablespoons rice or 

2 quarts water. 2 tablespoons barley. 

1 teaspoon salt. * 1 onion, 1 turnip. 



112 SCIENTIP^IC COOKING. 

Remove the skin and fat, and cut into small pieces. 
Put into kettle with the bones, and cover with cold 
water. Heat slowly to the boiling-point. Skim and 
season. Add the onion and turnip. "When the meat 
is tender, strain and remove the fat. Reheat and add 
the rice or barley, whichever you desire, and cook until 
I'ice or barley is tender. If barley is used, it must be 
soaked overnight. 

Scalloped Lamb. 

Use cold roast lamb. First remove all the outside 
and cut in thin slices. Cover the bottom of w^ell-but- 
tered baking-dish with buttered cracker crumbs, then 
a laj^er of the meat with some boiled macaroni or 
spaghetti, if you have some; then another layer of the 
meat and macaroni, and pour over all a highly seasoned 
tomato sauce, with one sweet-pepper minced fine and 
added to it. Cover the top with buttered crumbs, and 
bake for twenty minutes in moderate oven. 

Lamb Kidneys. 

Soak, pare, trim and slice six kidneys. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cook in hot frying-pan in two 
tablespoons of butter until brown ; dredge well with 
flour, and add three-fourths of a cup of hot water, or 
stock if you have it. Cook for five minutes, and season 
with onion juice, lemon juice, and a little sherry or 
Madeira wine. Kidneys want to be cooked quickly or 
they become tough. By some they are considered a 
table delicacy. I myself do not enthuse on them. 

Minced Lamb on Toast. 

Remove dry and gristly parts from roast lamb. Cut 
fine, and heat in a little butter in frying-pan. Season 
with salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Sprinkle with 
flour, and add enough stock or cream to make a nice 
gravy, and serve on toast. 



SWEETBREADS. 113. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
SWEETBREADS. 

THE veal sweetbread is the only one we consider in 
cookery, although found also in the lamb. It is 
found in the calf during the time they feed on milk, and 
disappears with liquid food. Sweetbreads are a great 
table delicacy, and very good for the sick and conva- 
lescent. Sweetbreads are found in the animal in pairs, 
and connected by tubing. They are known as the 
heart and throat sweetbread. The heart sweetbread 
is firm and compact, and its position is near the heart. 
The other part is known as the throat sweetbread.. 
The heart sweetbread is the most desirable, but when 
you order a pair you have one of each. As soon as 
they come from the market they want to be placed in 
cold water for an hour, to draw out the blood and make 
them white. Change the water once during the hour, 
and drain them and put them into boiling water with 
two teaspoons of salt, and a little lemon juice or vine- 
gar, and boil them very slowly for twenty minutes. 
Drain and place them in cold water, to keep them 
white and firm. It is very nice to roll them in a clean 
piece of cheesecloth, if they are to be kept any time. 
Roll the cheesecloth very tight, and this makes them 
firm if you wish to shape them in cutlets. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Use parboiled sweetbreads cut into cubes, allowing 
one cup of thin white sauce for a pair. These can be 
served on pieces of toast, or in timbale or patty cases. 



114 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Broiled Sweetbread. 

Split parboiled sweetbreads, and sprinkle with salt 
and a little white pepper. Broil for a few moments, 
butter, and serve with slices of lemon. 

Fried Sweetbreads. 

Split the sweetbread into two pieces, roll in crumbs, 
then egg, then in the crumbs again. Allow them to 
stand for a short time. Fry them in deep fat, place 
them on hot platter, and serve with a Bechamel or 
tomato sauce. 

Chicken and Sweetbreads in Cream. 

Use equal parts of chicken and sweetbreads cut in 
small cubes, and reheated in ^ cream sauce. One-half 
cup of sliced mushrooms, or truffles, are always an 
addition to sweetbreads. 

Sauted Sweetbreads. 

Cut parboiled sweetbreads in slices, saute them in 
butter, and serve with French peas. Have the peas 
as dry as possible, and seasoned with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

Sweetbread Cutlets with Asparagus Tips. 

Use parboiled sweetbreads cut into slices, and 
shaped into cutlet. Season with salt and pepper. Dip 
into egg, then into crumbs; fry in deep fat. Arrange 
on hot platter around asparagus tips that are well 
seasoned with drawn butter, salt and pepper. 

Braised Sweetbreads en Casserole. 

Place in a casserole a bed of cubed vegetables, using 
carrot, turnips and celery with a few cubes of salt pork. 



SWEETBREADS. 115 

Lay parboiled sweetbreads on it. Add water or stock 
enough to abnost cover the vegetables. Cover casse- 
role tight and cook slowly for thirty-five or forty min- 
utes; uncover the last fifteen minutes to brown sweet- 
breads. Serve from the casserole. 

Larded Sweetbreads. 

Parboil sweetbreads, lard on upper side, and bake 
or braise until well browned, basting with meat glase. 
Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Calf's Brains. 

Soak brains as soon avS thej' come from the market 
in cold water for one hour, putting a teaspoon of salt 
in the water to whiten the brains. Then simmer in 
water, which has salt and one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, for twenty minutes. A little thyme, small piece 
of bay leaf and small onion are an improvement to 
the flavor of the brains while they are simmering. 
Place them in cold water as soon as they are taken 
from the boiling water. Remove all skin and fibers, 
and they are ready to cook in any way in which brains 
are served. 

Marinade of Brains. 

Cut the prepared brains in pieces half the size of 
an e^g. Let them stand half an hour in a marinade of 
one tablespoon of lemon juice, two tablespoons of oil, 
a little onion juice, salt and pepper. Wipe, dip them 
in egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve with 
highly seasoned tomato sauce. 



116 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
PORK. 

PORK is the flesh of the pig or Iciog, and, according to 
the eleventh chapter of Leviticus, we should not use 
for the reason that it does not chew the cud. But the 
fact that he ran into* the river and the devil left the 
swine, has made him very useful for food for our table, 
as some parts of the pig are very delicious; but it is 
not meat for us to feed our family on as the beef or 
mutton is. 

The hog is split down the entire length of the back, 
and the chine and sparerib correspond to the loin of 
the veal and lamb. The hind legs give us our hams; 
the fore leg furnishes the shoulder. Then we have the 
feet, heads, hocks, liver, hearts and flank, also the leaf- 
lard, Avhich is the best lard we have for all purposes 
for which lard is used. The leaf-lard has a peculiar 
smell which the other fat of the pork does not have 
after the rendering. The feet are thoroughly cleaned 
and first boiled until the bones will shake, then are 
pickled, fried and used in different ways. Hams and 
shoulders are cured and smoked. The flank is salted 
and smoked and used as bacon ; the ribs sold as spare- 
rib ; the chine or loin sold for roasts, or cut into chops 
as the purchaser may desire. From the trimming of 
the lean and fat meat mixed we make the sausage, 
which is ground and highly seasoned. There should be 
fat enough used in sausages to fry themselves. The 
heads are cooked very tender and made into sauce. 



PORK. 117 

Pork, from the fact that it is difficult of digestion, 
should not be served very often, and is always looked 
upon as a meat to be served during the cold weather. 
In buying pork see that the fat is firm and white, 
and always cook very well done. 

Roast Pork. 

Wipe roast, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
place on rack in the roasting-pan. Roast in moderate 
oven for three or four hours, according to the size of 
the roast. Baste often during the roasting. Pour off 
some of the fat and make a brown gravy in the pan 
same as for other roasts. 

Roast Spareribs with Apples. 

Use the entire rib. Season with salt and pepper, 
and have one quart of tart apples pared^ cored, and 
cut into quarters. Sprinkle with one-half cup of sugar, 
stirring the sugar thoroughly through them, and pile 
them in the center of the ribs, then roll the ribs and. 
tie them so as to hold the apples. Place in dripping- 
pan, and cook for thirty-five or forty minutes. This 
is very delicious, as the apple imparts a fine flavor to 
the pork and the pork to the apple. 

Pork Chops with Apple Sauce. 

Cook tart apples to make a mound in center of dish. 
Sweeten to taste and have them rather dry. Keep hot 
on back of stove. Wipe the chops and season with salt, 
pepper and a little thyme, if liked. Place in hot frying- 
pan and cook slowly until they are tender and well 
browned on both sides. Serve with leaf of lettuce 
under each chop round edge of hot platter, with apple 
sauce piled in center. This presents a very sightly dish. 



118 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Pork Tenderloins. 

Remove any gristle from the tenderloin, wipe, put 
into hot oven, and brown quickly, then season with salt 
and pepper and bake three-quarters of an hour. The 
last twenty minutes add one cup of thin cream, and 
baste often with, it. Serve with sweet potatoes, browned 
in the oven, si')rinkling them with sugar. 

Breakfast Bacon. 

Have the bacon cut very thin and very cold. Fry 
in hot frying-pan. Lift each piece and let all the fat 
drip off, and rest it on a hot plate with brown paper 
to absorb the fat, or you can broil on the broiler, then 
all the fat is in the pan under the broiler. This fat 
is good for frying fish, etc., if you use care not tjo burn 
it. 

Broiled Ham. 

Soak thin slices of ham in milk for one hour, Avipe, 
and broil for' a few moments, until well browned. 
Potatoes that have been boiled in their jackets, and 
sliced rather thick, and sprinkled with salt aixl peppe-r, 
and broiled by dipping the ham fat on them a-s they 
broil, may be served as a garnish with the ha-m. 

Ham and Egs^s. 

Trim ham and place in frying-pan; brown quickly 
on both sides, but do not let the fat burn. Ham must 
not be cooked enough to make it hard. Pour off the 
ham fat and rinse salt from frying-pan. Return fat 
and cook the eggs in it. Place the ham in the center 
of a hot platter, and put the eggs around, and garnish 
with parsley and small red radishes. 



PORK. 119 

Boiled Ham. 

Soak ham overnight in cold water to cover. Wash 
well and trim. Put into ham boiler or kettle large 
enough to hold it, and cover with cold water. Heat 
to the boiling-point and cook slowly until tender. A 
cup of vinegar added to the water the last half hmir 
of the cooking is a great addition to the flavor, and it 
also tenders the meat and makes it cut nicely. L^t 
ham partially cool in the water in which it was boiled, 
then lift to a dripping-pan and remove outside skin 
and trim into shape : then sprinkle with cracker crumbs 
and sugar, and stick with cloves. Bake in slow oven 
about forty-five minutes, until well browned. Serve 
hot with a champagne sauce. 

Fried Pig's Feet. 

Split the feet, and sprinkle with salt and pepper-. 
Crumb and egg, and fry in deep fat ; drain and serve 
with lemon cut into quarters. 

Sausages. 

Cut apart, and pierce each link several times with 
a skewer or fork. Put into frying-pan and cover with 
boiling w-ater, and cook for fifteen minutes. Drain and 
fry until well browned. Serve with fried apples. 

Fried Apples. 

Cut apples half an inch thick across the apple. 
Remove the core, leaving on the skin. Saute in butter 
or dripping from the sausage until tender. Sprinkle 
slightly with powdered sugar, and place on same plat- 
ter with the sausage. 



120 SaiENTlFIC CO^vING. 



CHAPTER XV. 
POULTRY AND GAME. 

POULTRY incliides turkey, chicken, fowl, duck and 
goose. In game we have birds and animals found 
in the field and forest. They include the quail, wild 
duck, partridge, dee-r, etc. 

In selecting poultry choose those that are plump, 
but not fat. If young, the flesh will be firm to the 
touch; end of the breastbone soft and pliable, like a 
gristle more than a bone. Short, yellow-legged chicken 
and fowl are given the preference, even by Shakespeare, 
who was a fine judge of all good things to eat. Dark- 
fleshed game can be served rare, while the white fl-esh 
wants always to be well done. Chicken, fowl and tur- 
key are very nutritious, and the white meat of the 
chicken is digested with little efiOo.rt on the part of the 
stomach. Since the incubator has been in use we have 
the broiler all the year round in the market. These are 
called spring chickens. Fowl is found in the market 
the year round. Turkeys are in market all the year, 
but are in best condition during the winter months. 
Geese and tame ducks are hard to digest on account of 
the large per cent, of fat they contain. Squabs are 
young pigeons, and are a very delicious tidbit for the 
sick. The pigeon wants slow, long cooking to make it 
tender. Game, with the exception of the wild duck, is 
tender and easy to digest, from the fact that it contains 
much less fat than poultry. 

A young goose about twelve weeks old is called 



POULTRY AND GAME. 121 

green goose. Kerwen, in his "Host and Guest," speaks 
often of green goose. Young ducks are called ducklings. 
The canvasback heads the list of the game ducks from 
the fact that he is the greatest diver among the ducks, 
and for this reason goes way down in the lakes and gets 
the wild celery root and fattens on it. This is what 
gives his flesh the peculiar flavor the game-lover delights 
in. The redhead is next. He follows the canvasback^ 
and picks up all the pieces of celery he drops, and 
this rates him second. The redhead is found in the 
market a little earlier than the canvasback. The mal- 
lard from Lake Erie is very fine. All game ducfe are 
cooked quickly in a very hot oven. Some writer has 
said, "Let the duck pass through the kitchen." Quail 
and partridge are served from the middle of October to 
January 1st. The fresh grouse appears in the market 
during the fall ; plover from April to December. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry. 

Remove all feathers, then light the gas-burner and re- 
move the hairs and down. Have the butcher to remove 
the tendons in the leg before removing the feet, as this 
makes the leg much more eatable and tender. Make 
an incision below the breastbone that will admit the 
hand. With the hands remove the entrails, gizzard, 
heart and liver, using care not to break the gall-bag 
that lies close to the liver under the right lobe. A very 
little bile from the gall-bag will make the chicken very 
bitter. Lying close to the ribs is a soft, spongy matter 
pink in color. This is the lungs, and every particle of it 
wants to be removed, also the kidneys, lying near the 
end of the backbone. Put the fingers in close to the 
neck, and withdraw the windpipe and crop. Cut the 
neck off close to the body. Tf the chicken is to be 



122 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

roasted, leave the skin long enough to double over the 
neck and make fast to the back. Remove the oil-bag, 
and wash the fowl by allowing the water to run through 
it. Wipe thoroughly inside and out, and see that every- 
thing has been removed. 

Fowl to be Cut Up. 

Take care to pick out all feathers with point of small 
knife. Singe over gas flames, take off oil-bag, draw 
everything from inside and remove crop, windpipe, etc. 
"Wash under faucet by letting the water run on it. Wipe 
dry, and cut up by first taking off wings, legs and sec- 
ond joint together, and separating if desired. Next cut 
off the white meat, split through the center and make 
two pieces, or, if a fricassee is to be made, leave it in 
one piece. Wipe all the pieces with wet cheesecloth, but 
the back and giblets want a thorough washing. 

To Stuff Poultry. 

After the fowl has been thoroughly prepared, you 
put in the stuffing hy the spoonful, first at the opening 
at the neck, using care to fill it only full enough to look 
plump after the stuffing is heated. Put the remainder 
of the stuffing in the body, and, if not too full, you can 
fasten with a skewer; in case it is full, you had best 
sew with coarse thread. 

To Truss Fowl. 

Press the thigh close to the body and hold in posi- 
tion by inserting a steel skewer under the middle joint, 
running it entirely through the body, coming out under 
the middle joint on opposite side. Fasten legs together 
at the end, and with a strong cord tie them to the tip 
of the tail. Press wings close to the bodv, and secure 



POULTRY AND GAME. 123 

to position with the second skewer, which you pass 
through wing', body and wing- on the opposite side. 
Draw neck skin back nicely, and fasten to position with 
thread and needle or with small wooden skewer. Cross 
string- attached to tail and draw round the end of lower 
skewer, then cross again and place round the upper 
skewer. Fasten in knot and cut off ends. Season out- 
side with salt and pepper, and spread with soft butter 
and place in roasting-pan. 

To Bone a Chicken. 

Cut through the skin down the center of the back, 
and w^th a pointed knife lift the flesh on either side, 
until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. 
Then you bone the joints carefully. After this the 
flesh from breastbone will be very easily removed. The 
fowl thus prepared must be filled with force-meat to 
take the place of the bones that have been removed. 
This can be a second uncooked fowl or the best cuts 
of veal from the round, minced and seasoned highly. 
The body should be filled with stuffing, either made with 
crumbs or chestnuts as you like. Sew the skin together 
down the entire back. Truss the fowl as usual, and it 
is ready to bake. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Singe, wipe, and with sharp knife cut through the 
backbone, beginning at the neck. Lay open the bird and 
remove the contents from inside. Cut out the rib 
bones on either side by detaching them from the breast- 
bone; flatten by pounding a little. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and spread wnth soft butter. Lay on a 
w^ell-greased broiler and broil twenty minutes. Expose 



124 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the flesh side to fire most of the time, as the skin side 
will bro^Mi much quicker. Remove to hot platter and 
spread with butter, and season with salt and pepper. 
Should the chicken brown too quickly, you can place 
it in the oven for a few moments to finish the cook- 
ing, as chicken and fowl must be thoroughly done be- 
fore they are served. 

Slightly Tainted Meat. 

The one recipe I give for chicken in the least bit 
tainted is, do not use it at all. But the remedy always 
suggested is to wash thoroughly in soda water and 
rinse in water Avith a little vinegar in it. The fact is 
that chicken and fowl are great to catch ptomain, so 
too much care can not be used to guard against it. 

Boiled Fowl. 

Pluck, singe, draw and wash the fowl. Tie up in 
cheesecloth and place on trivet to keep it from catching 
on bottom of the kettle in which it is cooked. Put 
enough boiling water in the kettle to about half cover 
the chicken. Turn occasionally, and cook slowly until 
tender. Add salt enough to the water in which you are 
cooking to taste agreeable and a little pepper. A small 
cube of salt pork is nice cooked with it. 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl. Roll each piece in 
flour that has a teaspoon of salt to two rounded table- 
spoons of flour, and a little white pepper. Brown in 
equal parts of lard and butter to golden brown, using 
care not to burn them. Put the ribs, neck and gizzard 
in bottom of saucepan, and pile the pieces of chicken 



POULTRY AND GAME. 125 

on them. Make a sauce in the frying-pan with flour 
water, and season nicely to taste. Strain over the fowl 
in saucepan and simmer slowly until tender; the time 
will depend upon the age of the chicken. Ten minutes 
before serving add one cup of mushrooms and one cup 
of peas. The peas can be canned or fresh; if fresh, 
they will want thirty minutes. 

White Fricassee. 

White fricassee is made by preparing the fowl in the 
same way, and boiling slowly in water until tender. 
Then remove, and have about two and a half cups of 
the stock which you remove the fat from, and thicken 
with flour and butter rubbed together, and season with 
salt and pepper. Just as you go to serve, add one cup 
of oysters plumped in their own liquor. In serving a 
fricassee of chicken, place the chicken on hot platter, 
laying breast in the center of dish, and wings and thighs 
opposite each other across leg at bottom of the platter, 
and garnish platter with green at each end. Watercress 
is always preferred for this purpose. 

Fried Chicken a la Kentucky. 

Clean, singe and cut into pieces for serving two 
young chickens. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
roll in flour, having the chicken wet, so that as much 
flour as possible will stick to the pieces. Put into fry- 
ing-pan in very hot lard, and cover closely, and brown 
Avell on all sides. AVhen the pieces are all browned, 
remove them to hot pan, and pour off the fat and add 
flour and brown in two tablespoons of butter, and to 
this add milk to make a rather thick sauce. While 
sauce is boiling, loosen all the brown caramel from bot- 
tom of the pan, to give the sauce a good flavor and also 



126 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

color. Just as you go to send to table, pcicl one-half 
cup of good cream. Arrange the chicken on hot plat- 
ter, and pour the sauce over the whole. Garnish with 
cress. 

Chicken in Cream a la Denver. 

Dress, singe and cut up two frv^ers weighing about 
two and a half or three pounds. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Rub over with soft butter, roll in flour, 
and arrange in dripping-pan. Put into hot oven 
and cook until a golden brown. Pour over enough thin 
cream to half cover, return to oven, and cook slowly 
until the chicken is well done, but not long enough to 
make it a bit dry. Baste with the cream several times 
during the baking. Remove the chicken to hot platter, 
and make a cream sauce with the cream in the frying- 
pan, using one tablespoon flour and a little more of 
the thin cream. 

Chicken a la Meringo. 

Clean, dress and cut chicken into pieces. Season 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in 
salt pork (or half lard and half butter) until a golden 
brown. Place the pieces in stewpan and cover with 
sauce, and cook slowly until tender. Add one cup 
mushrooms cut into pieces, and cook five minutes. Ar- 
range on hot serving-dish, and pour sauce round. Gar- 
nish with cress or parsley. 

Sauce. 

% cup butter. 2 tablespoons turnip, 

1 small onion, minced. minced. 

2 tablespoons carrot, 1% cups boiling water, 
minced. 1 cup strained tomatoes. 

34 cup flour. Salt and pepper. 

Dash cayenne. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 127 

Cook butter and vegetables five minutes. Add flour 
and cook until the flour is well browned. Add the water 
and strained tomato. Cook for a few moments, and 
strain onto chicken in stewpan. 

Planked Chicken. 

1 three-pound chicken. A little onion, minced. 

V2 pound mushroom caps. 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 
4 red peppers. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

4 green peppers. % cup butter. 

Enough mashed potato to dress plank. 

Clean the pepper by removing the seeds from the 
inside, and cook in boiling water until tender. Cream 
the butter, parsley, onion and lemon juice. Prepare 
chicken as for broiling. Spread with soft butter, and 
bake in hot oven until nearly cooked. Butter plank, 
and arrange border of potatoes, wdth pastry-bag and 
tube close to edge of plank. Peel mushrooms and saute 
them in a little butter. Arrange on chicken with the 
red and green peppers. Spread all with the prepared 
butter, and arrange your red and green peppers inside 
the potato border, and place in hot oven to brown the 
potatoes. Finish cooking the chicken. 

Chicken en Casserole. 

Prepare fowl and separate at the joints. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and roll in flour. Melt one-third 
cup butter in frying-pan. In this browTi the pieces of 
fowl, removing them as they brown to the casserole. 
Then, in the butter in the frying-pan, brown one onion, 
one green or red sweet-pepper and a little ham, all 
minced fine. Add to this three cups of hot white stock 
or boiling water, two cups of stewed, tomatoes, with one 
cup of rice tl^at has been boiled a few moments to 



128 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

swell it. Mix all well, season with salt and pepper, 
and pour over the chicken in the casserole. Cover 
closely, and cook in the oven slowly until the chicken 
is tender. Serve from casserole. This is fine. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Use a fowl weighing four or five pounds. Clean 
and cut up. Put into stewpan with boiling water to 
cover. T^nless objected to, add a small whole onion. 
Pour on enough boiling water to cover, and cook slowly 
until the meat will fall from the bones. When about 
half done add salt to taste — not too much — as you will 
at the last have to reduce the stock to one cup. Remove 
chicken from the bones cut into slices, or mince the 
white and dark meat separately, and decorate a mould 
with slices of hard-boiled eg^ and lemon, and place a 
layer of the white meat and one of the dark until all 
is used. R.emove fat from the stock, cool and pour 
over the chicken. Add more salt, if there is not enough 
before you pour on the stock. Place the mould under 
heavy weight until it is firm. 

Chicken Pie. 

Use fowls. Dress clean, cut up, and put into stew- 
pan with a small onion, sprig of parsley and small piece 
of bay leaf. Cover with boiling water, and cook until 
tender. When half done add salt and pepper. When 
chicken is tender remove from stewpan, strain stock, 
and skim off fat. If too much stock, reduce it by boil- 
ing, then thicken with flour diluted with cold water 
to the right consistency. Remove some of the large 
bones and arrange the chicken in a bakmg-dish. Pour 
over the gravy and cover with pie-crust, making sev- 
eral incisions for the steam to escape. The crust can 



POULTRY AND GAME. 129 

"be plain pie-crust, puff paste, or a crisp biscuit dough, 
as yon choose. 

Chicken Qumbo, 

C'leatti, dress aud cut up a three-paund chicken, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and flour. Brown in salt-pork 
fat, and remove t^o stewpan ; fry in the same fat one 
small onion, three cups of sliced okra, one red sweet- 
pepper, onion and pepper cut very fine, and cook for 
ten minutes. Add this to the chicken in the stewpan 
with two cups of tomatoes, two and a half cups' boiling 
'w^ater, salt to taste. Cook slowly until chicken is ten- 
der, and add three-fourths cup boiled rice. — (From a 
friend in New Orleans.) 

Stuffed Chicken. 

Clean, dress, stuff and truss chicken. Place in drip- 
ping-pan breast down for awhile, to keep the white meat 
from being dry, first having rubbed with soft butter. 
Place in hot oven until it begins to brown, then lower 
your gas, and cook slowly, basting frequently with but- 
ter and hot water from the pan. Turn the chicken 
from time to time that it may brown on all sides. When 
the thigh is tender the chicken is ready to remove. 
Make the sauce in the pan, adding the giblets that you 
have boiled in salted water until tender, and chopped 
fine. 

Stuffing for Fowl, 

2 cups bread or cracker Vj teaspoon powdered thyme- 
crumbs. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

3 tablespoons butter. A dash of cayenne. 
1 onion. White peppier. 

1 stick of celery. Salt. 

1 egg. Moisten with milk. 

Cook onions, celery and parsley in butter. A ten- 



130 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

pound turkey is a nice size. Dress, olean, stuff and 
truss same as chicken. Spread with soft butter, and 
sprinkle with salt and i)epper. Pkce in hot oven, and 
baste with hot water and butter, and turn and expose 
all sides to the heat that it may brown evenly. Keep 
the gas rather low, so that it may not brown t'Oo much. 
Before serving remove strings and skewers. G'arnish 
with parsley and curled celery. In preparing it will 
take double the amount it does for chicken-. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

1 cup bread cnim'os. V^ cup butter. 
3 cups chestnuts. Salt to taste. 

White pepper. Moisten with cup cream, thin. 

Shell and blanch chestnuts. Cook in salted water 
until tender, drain and mash. Add butter, salt, pep- 
per, cream and cracker crumbs. Blend all together 
and stuff same as with bread. 

Oyster Stuffing. 

311, cups bread crumbs. 14 cup melted butter. 

1 pint oysters. A little grated onion. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean and drain oysters. Mix together the bread 
crumbs, onion, butter, salt and pepper. Add the oysters. 

In German cooking one-half cup seeded raisins and 
some chopped nuts are often added, and are very nice. 

Gravy for turkey is made in pan same as chicken 
gravy; but if the turkey is very fat, pour fat off, as 
you will find turkey fat hard to digest. You can leave 
in some of the fat or use butter if you prefer, and have 
the giblets well cooked in salted water, until tender 
and minced fine. Use the water in which the giblets 
were cooked to make the gravy, with flour to thicken. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 131 

Roast Goose. 

Remove pinfeathers, singe, and wash in w-arm water 
with soda in it. Scrub well with stiff brush. Draw, 
wash in cold water and wii>e'; stuff, truss, and season 
wath salt and pepper. Cover the breast with thin strips 
of fat sa«lt pork. Place on rack and put into hot oven, 
and cook for ab-out two hours, more or less, according 
to age of goose:. Baste frequently with fat in the pan. 
Remove fat and brown the goose. Serve with apple 
sauce. 

Potato Stuffing for Goose. 

3,V^ cups hot mashed 3 tablespoons butter. 

potatoes. S-aJt and pepper. 

1 finely minced onion. 1 eg.g, beaten vejy light. 

Mash potatoes; add onion, butter, salt and pepper^ 
then the eg^. Fill goose and place on rack in oven. 
This stuffing is good for domestic ducks. 

Roast Wild Duck. 

Dress, clean and truss wild duck, fill the breast 
with celery or quarters of apple. Put into hot oven 
and cook for twenty minutjes. Cover bre?ist with fat 
salt pork. Baste every five minutes with fat in the p.an. 
Serve hominy fried and folded like omelet (it wants 
to be brown before folding). Currant jelly and celery. 

Canvasback Duck. 

Cook canvasback duck same as the above, and when 
done the breast alone' is served; the legs, wings, etc., 
are cut off and juice expressed with hot meat-press and 
poured over the duck. Orange cocktail is a nice accom- 
paniment for canvasback duck. 



132 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Roast Quail. 

Dress, clean and truss quail. Cover with soft butter. 
Season with salt and pepper. Lard or spread the 
breast with salt pork. Cook about eighteen or twenty 
minutes in rather hot oven. 

Broiled Quail. 

Prepare samB as broiled chicken. Serve on pieces 
of toast, toasted only on side the quail rests on. Serve 
currant jelly, and garnish with parsley. Time for 
cooking, seven or eight minutes. 

Broiled Venison Steak. 

Use the recipe for broiling beefsteak. Spread with 
butter and serve -rare. 

Venison Cutlets. 

The cutlet is cut from the loin of the venison. They 
are trimmed into shape and egged and crumbed, and 
sauted in butter. Served with wine sauce with olives 
in it. 

Saddle of Venison. 

Saddle of venison is prepared same as saddle of 
mutton, and served with currant jelly sauce. The veni- 
son is spread with currant jelly just before taking from 
the oven. 

Guinea Fowl. 

They are at their best when a year old and under. 
They are cooked same as other domestic fowls, and are 
served with a sauce. I ate one at a cafe that I thought 
was delightful. It was braised in oven, and a sauce 
served with it called Kentucky sauce, which was a 
brown sauce made in the dripping-pan with good apple 



POULTRY AND GAME. 133 

cider instead of water, and with mushrooms added. 
Herons, snipe, plover, prairie chickens, quail, pig- 
eons, woodcocks, and all small game, are cooked in much 
the same w^ay as spring or broiler chickens. They are 
broiled, fricasseed, stewed and casseroled, according to 
fancy and the occasion upon which they are to be served. 
The meat from pecan -nuts is a nice addition to a sauce 
to be served with game. 

Roast Partridge. 

Pick, draw and clean, and fill with turkey dressing. 
Truss into nice shape. Place in dripping-pan. Place 
thin slices of salt pork on the breast. When brown 
slightly add some water to pan to keep pan from burn- 
ing. LowTr your fire and baste frequently. It will take 
about one hour t'o cook. When dt)ne make the sauce 
in the pan after removing the birds, and adding flour 
and more water if needed. Serve on hot platter, and 
garnish with parsley. Serve sauce in gravy-boat. 

Fried Plover. 

You skin the plover and reserve only the breast 
and legs. Roll in flour. Place in frying-pan with hot 
butter, and turn and fry until a nice brown on both 
sides. Remove to hot platter. Season with butter, salt 
and pepper, and make brown gravy by adding flour 
and more butter to the frying-pan. Season nicely and 
pour over the birds. 

Woodcock. 

Pick, draw^ and clean. Tie the legs, remove skin 
from the head, turn head under the wings, and tie. 
Put a thin slice of bacon over the breast, and keep in 
place with small wood skewers. Fry for three or four 
minutes in some hot fat. Season and serve on toast, 



134 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

with some tart jelly, currant preferred. These can be 
prepared in the same way and cooked in the casserole, 
and served from casserole. 

Quail Pie. 

Cut quails into halves, stew until tender, and season 
with butter, salt, pepper, parsley and onion juice and 
a tablespoon minced celery. Thicken with flour, place 
in baking-dish, and when cold cover with good pie-crust 
or puff paste, and bake until well browned. Serve from 
baking-dish. 

WARMED=OVER DISHES FROM GAME AND 
POULTRY. 

Creamed Chicken. 

2 cups cold cooked chicken. 1 teaspoon minced celery 
1 cup whitt. sauce. (using the heart). 

^2 cup mushrooms. 

Cut chicken into cubes, reheat in the cream sauce 
with celery and mushrooms. 

Chicken and Oysters. 

Prepare same as the above, and add one pint of 
oysters that have been plumped in their own liquor. 
Either of the above dishes can be served in potato well 
or patty-shells, or with border of rice. 

Belgian Hare Baked. 

Prepare about same as chicken. Clean, cut up, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and roll in flour. Place in 
dripping-pan and cook thirty minutes in oven, basting 
often with melted butter. Arrange on dish and serve 
with cream sauce. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 135 



CHAPTER XYI. 
FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 

BUTTER and flour cooK-d together are the founda- 
tions for all the different kinds of sauces. When 
not browned it is called roux; when browned, hrowm 
roux. For white sauces we cook the butter and flour 
together in a saucepan, using carie that it does not 
brown, and to this, as soon as it bubbles long enough 
to burst the starch grains in the flour, we add the liquid 
very slowly, with the seasonings. For brown sauce we 
stir the butter until well browned; flour is then added 
and stirred with the butter until both are- well browned 
before adding the liquids. Remember the success of 
the sauce depends u^pon the browning of the flour and 
butter properly, for the least bit of burning will give 
the sauce a bitter taste. The proportions for sauce to 
have the average thickness is one rounding tablespoon 
of flour and one of butter, or, if leveled, two of each, 
and liquid, whether milk or stock. For brown stock 
a little more fl.our is necessary, as the browning process 
takes from the thickening qualities of the flour. It 
is well to remember when a sauce is placed on back 
of range to be used later that a few bits of butter on 
top will prevent the crust from forming. In using 
vegetables, to get the flavors, such as onion, carrot, 
turnip, etc., mince them very fine and cook in the but- 
ter a few moments. Skim out before adding your 
flour. This gives the best flavor you can get from the 
vegetables. Mix your salt and pepper with the flour. 



136 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Thin White Sauce. No. 1. 

1 cup milk (cold). 1 tablespoon butter (rounded). 

y4, teaspoon salt. % tablespoon flour (rounded). 

Dash white pepper. 

Put butter in saucepan and melt until it bubbles. 
Add flour and seasoning, and stir until well blended. 
Pour on milk slowly, first drawing the saucepan to a 
cool place on the range. Should you pour the milk all 
in at one time, you will probably have a lumpy sauce 
that you will have to strain. A wire whisk is best for 
stirring a sauce. This sauce is about as thick as cream. 

White Sauce. No. 2, 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cup milk- 

1 tablespoon flour. H teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

Prepare same as thin white sauce. 

Cream Sauce. 

Prepare same as thin white sauce, using cream in- 
stead of milk, and do not allow it to boil after the 
cream is added. 

Thick White Sauce for Cutlets and Croquets. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk or white stock, or 

% cup flour. cream and white stock. 

Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Prepare as white sauce. 

Veioute Sauce. 

Same as white sauce, using chicken stock, flavored 
with onion, celery, carrot and sweet herbs. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 13T 

Sauce Allemande. 

To veloute sauce add one-fourth cup mushroom 
liquor and a few of the mushrooms cut fine, and yolks 
of two eggs, well beaten with one teaspoon of lemon 
juice. After the eggs have been added do not let it 
boil, but keep hot in double boiler. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Make same as veloute sauce, infusing with half cup- 
thick cream just as you send to table. This is what 
the Earl of Bechamel did just as the chef was sending- 
the turbot to the table, and though the Earl has passed 
away, we still have Sauce Bechamel. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

% cup butter. 1% cups water. 

2 tablespoons flour. i/^ teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Divide the butter in halves, using one-half in sauce- 
pan, to which add the flour as soon as it bubbles up 
well, then the water very slowly. Cook for a few mo- 
ments and add the remaining butter in small pieces- 
Served with boiled fish. 

Caper Sauce. 

To a drawn butter sauce add one-half cup capers, 
with a little of the vinegar. If to be served with boiled 
mutton, use the water in which the mutton was cooked 
for the liquid in making the drawTi butter, and if to- 
be served with fish, you can use some of the water in 
which the fish was boiled. 

Egg Sauce. 

This is prepared same as drawn butter sauce, with 
the addition of two hard-boiled eggs, cut into slices or 
chopped rather fine. 



138 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Brown Sauce. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cup brown stock. 

2 tablespoons flour. H teaspoon salt. 
Small onion, sliced. Dash white pepper. 

Cook onion in butter until browned, but not burned ; 
if the onion has a golden brown, it will add color to 
the sauce. Remove onion and stir butter until well 
browned. Add the flour and seasoning, and stir until 
browned ; then the stock gradually. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one-half cup of 
mushrooms cut in two or three pieces according to size, 
and, if liked, a tablespoon of lemon juice is very nice. 

Sauce Piquante. 

To one cup brown sauce add two tablespoons chopped 
shallot or very mild onion, two tablespoons chopped 
parsley, three tablespoons vinegar, and cayenne pep- 
per to taste (using care not to get too much, as it is 
very pungent), one tablespoon of capers and two of 
finely minced cucumber pickle. 

Tomato Sauce. 

2 cups tomatoes. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 small onion (minced). 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon minced ham. ^l. teaspoon salt. 

White and cayenne pepper. 

Cook onion and ham with the tomatoes for ten or 
fifteen minutes, then rub through strainer fine enough 
to catch all the seeds. Cook flour and butter together 
with the seasonings until well blended. If tomatoes 
are very acid, add sugar to develop a pleasant acid, 
then add them slowly to the butter and flour. Tomato 
sauce wants to be quite thick. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 13^ 

Orange Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter. Juice 1 orange. 

3 tablespoons flour. Rind 1 orange. 

1^2 cups brown stock. % cup sherry wine. 

Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Brown butter, add flour with seasonings, and stir 
nntil well browned. Add stock gradually, and just as 
you send to table the orange juice, orange rind cut in 
fancy shapes, and the sherry. This is fine for duck. 

Currant Sauce. 

1 cup brown stock. Juice 1 lemon, 

1 tumbler currant jelly. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. H teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons corn starch. 

Melt butter, add cornstarch, and when it cooks for 
a moment add cup of stock slowly, then the salt and 
pepper, lastly the jelly ; and as soon as all is well mixed 
and hot it is ready to serve with venison, mutton, goose 
or domestic duck. 

Chutnee Sauce. 

1 cup granulated sugar. Yo tablespoon ground ginger. 
• 2 cups vinegar. 1 large onion. 

1 clove garlic. i/4 teaspoon mustard. 

15 tart apples. % cup chopped raisins. 

Pare, core and quarter apples, and stew in just 
enough of vinegar to cover until they are very soft, 
and mash fine. Chop onion and garlic together (very 
fine), and add with the sugar, ginger, mustard, raisins, 
one-half teaspoon salt. Thoroughly mix, bottle and 
cork tightly, and keep in cool place. Serve with meat 
or fish. 



140 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Olive Sauce. 

Cover one dozen olives with boiling water, and let 
them stand for one hour on back of range. Wipe and 
remove the pits with sharp knife by paring them round 
and round. Add them to two cups of brown sauce, and 
simmer for three or four minutes. 

Spanish Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 green Spanish pepper, cut 

2 tablespoons flour. fine. 

1 cup brown stock. 2 tablespoons each of celery, 

2 cups strained tomatoes, onion and carrot. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 2 tablespoons lean ham (raw). 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook ham and vegetables with butter until well 
browned; add flour, stock and tomatoes. Strain and 
season with sugar, pepper and salt. 

Tomato Cream Sauce. 

2 cups tomatoes. 1 slice onion. 

1 cup white sauce. Little thyme and bay leaf. 

% cup cream. H teaspoon soda. 

1 stalk celery. Salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Cook tomatoes with seasonings for fifteen minutes, 
rub through strainer, add soda, white stock and cream. 
Serve with baked fish or lobster cutlets. 

Oyster Sauce. 

1 cup oyster broth. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup thin cream. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 pint oysters. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the oysters, and reserve the liquor. Heat, 
skim, and add oysters, and cook until plump. Remove 
oysters and cook butter and flour, add oyster liquor 
.and cream; as soon as it comes to the boiling-point. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 141 

season and add oysters. Serve at once or keep hot in 
double boiler, with a few bits of butter dropped in to 
keep skim frora forming. 

Cucumber Sauce with Whipped Cream. 

i/j teaspoon salt. 2 cucumbers (seeds removed, 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. chopped and drained). 
11/^ cups whipped cream. Paprika and white pepper. 

Have cream whipped stiff; fold in lemon juice, salt, 
pepper and paprika, then add the cucumber. 

Celery Sauce. 

3 cups celery, sliced thin. 1 pint thin white sauce. 

Wash and scrape celery to remove all the tough 
outside before slicing. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender, rub through a sieve, and add to the white 
sauce. Celery sauce is often made from the stock in 
which fowl or turkey has been cooked, and one-half cup 
good cream added at the last. 

Lobster Butter. 

One-fourth cup of butter. Lobster coral. Wash, 
wipe, and force coral through sieve; put with the but- 
ter and rub until well blended. This butter is used for 
lobster soup, and sauces to give color as well as richness. 

Tartar Sauce. 

1 tablespoon vinegar. i/4 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons lemon juice. 1 tablespoon Worcestershire. 

Vj- cup butter. 

Brown butter in saucepan. Mix salt, paprika, lemon 
juice and AVorcestershire sauce in small bowl, which 
you place over hot water. As soon as butter is well 
browned strain it over the seasonings in bowl. This is 
iine with a sauted shad roe. 



142 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

1^ cup butter. 1 tablespoon finely minced 

1^ teaspoon salt. parsley. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Cream butter well, add salt, pepper and parsley, and 
rub until the butter takes on a green hue from the 
parsley. Then add lemon juice a little at a time. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

V2 cup butter. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Y2 teaspoon salt. i^ cup boiling water. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. Dash of cayenne. 

Cream butter thoroughly until soft and creamy, add 
yolks one at a time, then the lemon juice a few drops 
at a time until all is well blended, and lastly the salt 
and cayenne. Just before serving put it in top of 
double boiler over boiling water, first having stirred in 
the half cup of boiling water into the sauce. 

Hollandaise for Chops. 

Add to the above sauce one tablespoon each of 
minced parsley and fresh tarragon. This is also good 
served with smelts or salmon. 

Bread Sauce for Partridge or Grouse. 

2 cups milk. 1,^ cup fine bread crumbs. 

1 onion. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 cloves. 1,^ cup coarse, stale bread 
i{, cup chopped pecan- crumbs. 

nuts. Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Cook milk, bread and onion with cloves stuck in it 
in double boiler for thirty-five minutes. Remove onion 
and add salt, pepper, pecan-nuts, paprika and butter. 
Brown the coarse crumbs in tablespoon of butter, and 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. " 143 

sprinkle over the sauce after it is poured onto a hot 
platter, to serve the partridge or grouse on. 

Mint Sauce. 

% cup mint leaves V2 teaspoon salt. 

chopped fine. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

% cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon water. 

A few grains of paprika. 

Mince the mint very fine. Add salt and sugar and 
stir well, then add the vinegar with the water, and let 
it steep for one hour before using. 

Wine Sauce. 

1 cup brown sauce. }i cup sherry or port wine. 

14 tumbler currant jelly. Dash of cayenne. 

Use brown sauce without onion; add jelly and 
cayenne ; heat very hot, and just as you serve it add 
the wine. 

Sauce Tartare. 

1 cup mayonnaise, mixed 2 tablespoons each, finely 

with mustard and tar- chopped, of capers, 

ragon vinegar. pickles, olives, parsley. 

Boiled Salad Dressing:. 

1^ cup vinegar. 1 teaspoon flour. 

1/4 cup sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

^4 cup butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon mustard (dry). 1 cup whipped cream. 

Heat vinegar to the scald. Mix mustard, sugar, 
salt and flour. Add the eggs slightly beaten, and stir 
all well together, then pour on slowly the heated vine- 
gar, and return all to the saucepan and cook about 
five minutes. Remove, add butter, cool and add whipped 
cream just as you serve. This is a fine dressing for 
tomatoes, cabbage, lettuce, etc. It is sometimes called 
cooked mayonnaise. 



144 ■ SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Curry Sauce,, 

FOR EOGS, CHICKEN^ ETC. 

2 tablespoons butter. V^ teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon curry powder. 

2 tablespoons chopped 2 cups milk or white stock, 

onion. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Melt butter in frying pan, add onion, cook for a 
few moments, but do not allow it to brown; add the 
flour, salt and curry powder mixed together. Add to 
frjnng-pan and cook a few moments until well blended. 
Add the liquid, cook again, and strain. Add lemon juice 
just as you serve, as all fruit juices have a fresher 
taste uncooked. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

1 quart cranberries. 1 pint sugar. 

\y.2. cups water. 

Carefully pick and wash berries, put into saucepan, 

add water, and cook until tender. Then add the sugar. 

When thoroughly dissolved it is ready for use, and may 

be served hot or cold. It may be strained and moulded 

if desired. 

Apple Sauce. 

FOR GOOSE AND PORK. 

Peel, core and quarter eight or ten tart apples. 
Make a syrup with equal quantities of sugar and water ; 
the amount will depend upon the tartness of the apple, 
but for ten apples three-fourths cup of each. Let it 
come to boil and remove any scum that arises. Add 
apples, cover closely and boil until apples are tender. 
They can be served in quarters, or mashed fine wdth 
potato ricer. 

Mushroom and Tomato Sauce. 

To a pint of brown tomato sauce add one-half can 
of sliced mushrooms. 



VEGETABLES. 14S 



CHAPTER XVII. 

VEGETABLES. 
The Care, How to Cook, Etc. 

IN the vegetable kingdom we find all the different 
plants as food on our table, and it is a very import- 
ant factor to our daily menu, and with exception of the 
beans, peas and lentils, which contain a great deal of 
proteid, their chief value is in the large amount of 
potash salts which they contain, together with the cel- 
lulose which is found in many of them, and this gives 
the needed bulk necessary to keep up the proper action 
of the stomach. The peas, beans and lentils take the 
place of meat to repair the muscle in the body. The 
various vegetables and plants are used in a variety of 
ways. Some are cooked, others used in their natural 
state as salad, such as lettuce, onions, cucumbers, water- 
cress, tomatoes, radishes, etc. These are dressed in a 
variety of ways singly, and combined in salads. 

The Care of Vegetables. 

The care of vegetables is a very important thing, 
and the wholesomeness and flavor depend largely upon 
the care they receive. As soon as they come from the 
market they want to be cared for, and placed where 
they keep best. Lettuce wants to be dipped in water 
and wrapped in cheesecloth, and laid near the ice. 
Celery is treated in the same way. Corn will lose much 
of its sweetness if kept very long, and is a thing that 



146 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

wants to be pulled from the stalk and cooked at once. 
Peas and asparagus need the same treatment as corn, 
but will stand a little keeping, but are better cooked 
soon after cutting and picking. 

Wilted vegetables can be made fresh and crisp by 
placing in cold water, but they should not be kept 
too long in the water, or they lose their flavor. Winter 
vegetables want to be kept in a cool, dry place. In 
our markets of to-day are found the fresh vegetables all 
the year round, brought from the Southern States and 
California. 

Cooking Vegetables. 

Vegetables are always cleaned and washed in cold 
w^ater and cooked in boiling salted water. Those that 
you wish to retain the green color want to be cooked 
uncovered. The time for cooking vegetables will vary 
according to the freshness and age. 

Mushrooms and Truffles. 

These come under the head of vegetables. Mush- 
rooms grow in many localities, and should be used as 
often as possible, as they contain quite a quantity of 
nutriment, and are always an addition to meat sauces, 
croquets, macaroni, etc., and are fine sauted in butter 
or stuffed and baked. The mushroom culture has be- 
come quite a thing, and thej^ supply the markets all 
the year round. One wants to be careful in gathering 
them from the outside, and only those who positively 
understand should attempt to gather them, as the test 
of the silver spoon has been exploded from the fact 
that those which are edible will blacken the spoon as 
well as the poisonous ones. 



VEGETABLES. 147 

To Prepare the Mushroom. 

Trim off the stalk, and if the skin is tough, peel, if 
necessary. Wash them, but do not allow them to lie 
in water, as it may destroy the flavor. The best flavor 
is developed in the mushroom by sauteing in butter, 
but they are served in diflferent ways. 

Truffles. 

Truffles grow underground, and are found more 
abundantly in France than elsewhere, but by the time 
they are canned and exported they become too great 
a luxury for anything but special occasions. The best 
truffles are found in the oak forests, where the soil is 
veryj^sterile. They are about as large as a walnut, with 
a rough, brown, warty surface, closely akin to a potato. 
They are not easily found, from the fact that they are 
underneath the surface of the ground. The hog is very 
fond of them, and it is in this way they hunt for them. 
They take the hog out, and he soon begins to root up 
the ground where they are located, but as soon as he 
brings them to the surface they are taken from him. 
Truffle-gatherers keep this up until the hog will no 
longer work and have his food taken from him, and 
they have to rest him until he forgets his ill returns 
during tlie night ; but he will start at it the next morn- 
ing. The best truffies are found in France, but the 
price makes them a luxury. They can not be cultivated. 
They retail at two dollars a pound, and are used as 
a garnish for fancy entrees. On account of the price, 
many are very fond of them. 



148 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

COOKING OF POTATOES. 

Boiled New Potatoes. 

Select those that are ripe. Scrub with small vege- 
table brush to remove all outside skin. Boil quickly 
in boiling salted water until you can pierce them with 
fork. Drain and sprinkle lightly with salt, and cover 
with perfectly clean cloth. Shake until dry and serve 
at once. 

Baked Potatoes. 

This is considered the most perfect way of cooking 
the potato. They want to be thoroughly scrubbed and 
washed. If all the earth is not thoroughly removed, 
you will taste it on the potato. In baking potatoes 
have them of uniform size, so they will all be done at 
the same time. Place them in the hot oven and bake 
them three-quarters of an hour. On removing from 
the oven break the skin to allow the steam to escape. 
Serve at once. 

Riced Potatoes. 

Use a plain boiled potato as soon as it becomes soft, 
and press through a ricer. Season Avith butter and salt. 

Duchess Potatoes. 

Use a pint of hot riced potatoes. Use one table- 
spoon butter, salt to taste, the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, and enough hot cream to make the mixture 
pass easily through a forcing-bag with tube attached. 
Decorate in any style desired. Brush top with egg and 
milk, and brown in hot oven. 

Potato Roses. 

Use duchess potato mixture and forcing-bag. Hold 
bag in upright position, tube pointing down ; force out 



VEGETABLES. 149 

potato to form the rose. Raise it quickly to break the 
flow. Shape these on tin sheet, brush with egg and milk, 
and brown in oven. Remove with spatula or broad- 
bladed knife. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Use riced potatoes, and season with butter, salt and 
hot milk; beat until very light, and pile on serving- 
dish, but do not smooth, as the irregularity of the po- 
tato is much more attractive. 

Potato Croquettes. 

2 cups hot riced potatoes. Onion juice, cayenne, 

2 tablespoons butter. parsley. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 

Mix ingredients and beat thoroughly. Shape, dip 
in crumbs and egg, and in the crumbs again. Fry in 
deep fat to a golden brown. Drain on paper, and gar- 
nish with parsley, and serve. 

Potatoes O'Brion. 

Fry three cups of potato cubes in deep fat and 
drain on paper. Cook one tablespoon onion in one 
tablespoon butter for two or three minutes, skim out 
the onion, and add three pimentoes to butter. Cut 
pimentoes in small pieces. When quite hot add the 
potato cubes. Mix well and serve. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Use small potatoes, cut into eighths lengthwise. Soak 
in cold water for an hour or more. Take from water, 
dry and fry in deep fat. The fat must not be too hot, 
as the potato must cook as well as brown. Sprinkle 
with salt and s^ve. 



150 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Mill Creek Potatoes in Cream. 

Wash, pare and cut into pieces not larger than peas. 
Parboil in salted water for three or four minutes; drain 
and put aside where they keep hot. For one quart of 
potatoes use a pint of cream sauce made by recipe for 
thin white sauce. Pour over potatoes, mix thoroughly, 
and turn into double boiler. Pour one-half cup of 
cream on top of potatoes, and place them on back of 
stove where water in bottom of boiler will just simmer 
for two or three hours. By this time they will have 
absorbed the sauce and cream, and will be very de- 
licious; served with steak or chops, or any place where 
you would serve a creamed potato. — CJief of Mill Creek 
House, Cincinnati. 

Delmonico Escalloped Potatoes, 

Cut raw potatoes in pieces size of peas. Parboil 
in salted boiling water for about four minutes, drain 
and mix with a pint of thin white sauce, to which one 
teaspoon grated onion or onion juice has been added. 
Mix well and taste for seasoning. Turn into a well- 
buttered bake-dish, cover closely, and bake until sauce 
is almost absorbed, but do not have oven hot enough 
to brown. Ten minutes before you serve, sprinkle the 
top with one cup grated cream cheese and buttered 
crumbs. As soon as the cheese is melted and crumbs 
brown, it is ready to serve. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes into thin slices. Put 
layers in well-buttered baking-dish. Sprinkle Avith salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and dot with bits of 
butter. Repeat. Add hot milk or cold until you can 



VEGETABLES. 151 

see it through the top layer; bake one hour or until the 
potato is soft. 

Potato Curls for Garnish. 

Select long potatoes, wash and pare. Shape with 
potato curler. Soak one hour in cold water. Drain 
and dry between towels. Fry in deep fat. Sprinkle 
with salt. 

Hashed Browned Potatoes. 

Chop five or six cold boiled potatoes very fine. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Put into a frying-pan one- 
fourth cup of fat; when hot, put in the potatoes and 
heat quickly. Shape like omelet by pressing to one side 
of pan. When well browned drain off the fat and turn 
onto serving-dish. Two tablespoons of stock are nice 
mixed with the potatoes. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes, 

Thoroughly wash and brush, and bake same as 
white potatoes. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and 
cook until tender. Press through ricer, season with 
butter, salt and pepper, and moisten with hot milk. 
Beat until very light and serve. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash, pare and cut into slices lengthwise. Sprinkle 
with salt, and put in frying-pan one rounding table- 
spoon of butter and one of lard, and lay the potatoes 
in and stir them so they will all be coated with the fat. 



152 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Then sprinkle them with one-half cup of brown sugar, 
cover closely and cook very slowly, stirring them as 
they brown until all take on the yellow, glossy look 
of candy. This is the way they cook them in the South, 
and they use a heavy iron frying-pan to cook them in. 
They are fine. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices lengthwise, shap- 
ing them so they are fiat on both sides. The slices want 
to be one-half inch thick. Dip them into melted butter, 
coating all sides well. Broil on grate of gas broiler 
until well browned. Nice with broiled ham. 

Sweet Potatoes with Wine. 

Bake and prepare same as white potatoes, by split- 
ting in halves lengthwise. Mash, season with butter 
and salt, moisten with thin cream, and add two table- 
spoons of sherry wine. Refill skins and bake in hot 
oven. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes. 

Use two cups hot riced potatoes, add two tablespoons 
butter, one-fourth teaspoon salt, a dash of pepper, one 
Qgg beaten light. Shape into croquettes, egg and crumb, 
and fry in deep fat. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Cook small onion, cut into slices, in two tablespoons 
butter for five minutes; add three or four cold boiled 
potatoes cut into rather thin slices, about one-fourth inch 
thick. Sprinkle with salt, and stir well until all are 
well blended. Let it rest until potatoes are well 
browned, fold and turn onto hot serving-dish. Lyon- 
naised and hashed and browned potatoes are both im- 



VEGETABLES. 153 

proved by the addition of two tablespoons of brown 
meat stock. They also hold together better. 

Artichokes. 

The French artichokes are in the market all the 
year, and are the ones principally used. At present 
California is sending them to our markets, but they are 
not so good as the French ones, but are cheaper. In 
New Orleans the artichoke is held in high esteem. 

Boiled Artichokes. 

Remove stems close to leaves, and cut off outside 
bottom leaves, cut one inch from top, and with a sharp 
knife remove choke. Tie with string to keep it in shape. 
Soak in cold water from forty-five to sixty minutes: 
longer does not hurt. Put into saucepan of boiling 
w^ater, with salt and a little lemon juice. Cook thirty- 
five minutes. Remove from water, rest upside down 
to drain, and remove string. Serve with a Hollandaise 
sauce. They are often served as a course. Many pre- 
fer them dipped in melted butter as they eat them. 
In any case the leaves are drawn out separately, and 
dipped in the sauce or butter as may be. The fleshy 
parts only are eaten. 

Fried Artichokes. 

First boil them, then quarter, season, dip in batter, 
and fry in deep fat. 

Artichoke Bottoms. 

Cut off all leaves and remove choke. Cook until 
tender in boiling salted water with lemon juice or 
vinegar. Serve with sauce Bechamel. 



154 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Boiled Summer Squash. 

Select squash by trying with the finger nail; if 
easily pierced with nail, it will cook quickly. Wash 
and cut into quarters or eighths, according to size of 
squash. If the seeds are large, remove them. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Turn on cheesecloth 
in colander, and wring in the cheesecloth until dry as 
possible. Mash, season with salt and pepper. 

Fried Summer Squash. 

Prepare and treat same as eggplant. 

Steamed Hubbard Squash. 

Cut into pieces, and remove seeds and stringy parts. 
Place in steamer and cook until tender over boiling 
water. Remove pulp from shell. Mash and season with 
butter, salt, pepper and a little thick cream, and, if 
not sweet enough, add a little sugar. Place on baking- 
dish and reheat in oven. Serve from dish. 

Steamed Squash au Gratin. 

Prepare same as above recipe, and cover with but- 
tered cracker crumbs, and leave in oven long enough 
to brown the crumbs. 

Fried Eggplant. 

Pare an eggplant and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle 
with salt, dip into egg with two tablespoons of w^ater 
stirred into it, and then into fine bread crumbs, and 
fry in lard with one tablespoon of butter with the lard 
until crisp and brown. If preferred, this can be fried 
in deep fat. In either case drain on paper and keep 
hot. 



VEGETABLES. 155 

Stuffed Eggplant. 

Cook eg^lant in boiling salted water to cover for 
ten or twelve minutes. Remove and cut a slice from 
top, and with a spoon remove the pulp, leaving a wall 
thick enough that it will hold the prepared stuffing. 
Chop pulp, and add one cup bread crumbs. Melt in 
frying-pan two tablespoons butter, add one of finely 
chopped onion, cook for a few moments, and add all 
to the pulp. Season all with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with half cup of strained tomato. Mix all well, 
and return to frying-pan; cook for five minutes, cool, 
and add one egg well beaten. Refill the eggplant and 
cover with buttered crumbs, and bake for thirty min- 
utes in an oven not too hot. 

Cauliflow^er. 

Cauliflower is the poetry of the cabbage family. 
They are in the market throughout the year. In select- 
ing cauliflower choose those with the floweret white and 
free from black spots, and with leaves surrounding the 
head fresh and green. Trim outside leaves off and cut 
stalk even with the edible portion, and place head down 
in cold water with salt added to draw out any insects 
that may be concealed in the floweret. Let it rest for 
half an hour. Cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der, but no longer. One that is fresh and crisp will 
cook in from twenty to twenty-five minutes. The cauli- 
flower may be tied in cheesecloth before placing in the 
kettle. Put in kettle head down. If to be used as 
creamed cauliflower, remove, separate the flowerets, and 
reheat in one and one-half cups of thin white sauce. 



156 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cauliflower a la Hollandaise. 

Prepare same as creamed cauliflower, and use Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Cauliflower with Cheese. 

Prepare cauliflower and place on dish for serving, 
head up, and sprinkle with grated cheese, then with 
buttered crumbs. Pour one cup of thin white sauce 
round the cauliflower, and place in the oven to brown 
the crumbs and melt the cheese. The casserole is the 
best form of serving dishes au gratin, for the reason 
they are always hot. 

Fried Cauliflower. 

Prepare by placing in cold water for thirty minutes. 
Separate into flowerets, shape stalks, and boil in salted 
water for ten minutes or until tender. Drain, roll in 
bread crumbs, then in egg mixed with two tablespoons 
of water, then back to the crumbs again. At time for 
serving fry in deep fat, drain and serve. This makes 
a nice entree, with a thick tomato sauce, with sweet 
green pepper in the sauce. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Brussels sprouts are of the cabbage family also. 
Each little sprout is a miniature cabbage-head. They 
grow on a stem, and one stem will yield about one and 
one-half to two quarts. In the preparation we pick 
them over and soak in cold water for twenty minutes, 
then drain. Cook in boiling salted water until you can 
pierce them easily. One-eighth of a teaspoon of soda 
(bicarbonate) will help to retain the green color. As 
soon as tender, drain. Use one cup of thin white sauce 
to one pint of the sprouts. 



VEGETABLES. 157 

Brussels Sprouts with Butter. 

Prepare same as above. Drain on cloth placed on 
colander, and toss in saucepan with one-fourth cup of 
butter, one tablespoon minced parsley, salt and pepper. 

Cabbage. 

In our markets we find the Savoy, purple, sugar- 
loaf and drumhead cabbage. For boiling, the Savoy is 
the best ; for cold slaw, the purple and drumhead. 
Always choose the heavy, solid head. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Remove outside leaves. Cut into quarters, and cut 
out the tough stalk. Soak for half an hour in cold 
salted water. Place in kettle with plenty of boiling 
salted water, and cook for ten minutes. Drain and 
return to kettle, and cover with boiling water and 
cook uncovered until tender. Drain and season with 
melted butter, salt and pepper, or it may be cooked 
with salt pork. In this case the pork wants to be boiled 
for about two hours before the cabbage is added, first 
parboiling the cabbage in salted water and draining 
to remove the strong juices. Then add to the water 
in which the pork is cooking, using care to remove the 
cabbage as soon as it is tender. Too long cooking will 
make it red and strong. 

Escalloped Cabbage. 

Cut one-half boiled cabbage quite fine. Season with 
salt, pepper and dash of cayenne. Mix with cup of 
thin white sauce, and put into buttered baking-dish. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, and, if liked, a sprink- 
ling of cheese. Put into oven and bake until crumbs 
are browned. 



158 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Cut out stalk end of head of cabbage, leaving a 
hollow in the shell. Make a stuffing with one pound of 
good pork sausage, one cup bread crumbs, one sweet 
pepper cut into fine ribbons, one onion, a little parsley, 
and one egg. Moisten with a little water or milk, fill 
cabbage, and tie tightly in cheesecloth and place on 
trivet in kettle. Fill half full of water. Cover closely 
and steam until cabbage is tender. Serve a tomato 
sauce, rather thin and highly seasoned. 

Purple Cabbage with Wine. 

Slice the cabbage very fine. Soak in cold water, 
drain, and cook in stewpan with two tablespoons butter, 
a little onion juice, salt, pepper and a dash of cayenne. 
Cover closely and cook until the cabbage is tender. 
Add one-fourth cup white wine and one tablespoon 
sugar. Cook five minutes and serve with baked rabbit. 

Cabbage Slaw. 

For slaw select a solid white head of cabbage, cut 
into halves, and with a very sharp knife shred as fine 
as possible. Soak in cold water until crisp. Drain, 
and dry by tossing in a bowl. Dress with boiled cream 
salad dressing. 

Turnips. 

In the market we find the small, flat purple top 
and the rutabaga, and a small, green variety known 
as kohl-rabi, but the rutabaga is the best and sweetest 
of the varieties. The juices of the turnip are strong, 
and they are better for parboiling once at least. 



VEGETABl.ES. 159 

Mashed Turnips. 

Wash, pare, cut into (juarters, parboil and drain; 
return to stewpan, cover with salted water, and cook 
until tender. Drain, mash and season with salt, pep- 
per and butter. A good-sized white potato cooked 
with them will make them drier when they are mashed. 

Creamed Turnips. 

Wash, pare, cut into cubes, and cook until tender. 
Allow one cup of thin white sauce to three cups of 
turnip cubes. 

Turnip Cups. 

Wash, pare and cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, small turnips of uniform size. Drain, and 
with spoon remove the inside to form a cup. Dip each 
cup into cream sauce to give them a glazed appear- 
ance and also to season them. Fill them with cubes 
of boiled and seasoned carrots or peas. In either case 
the dish is more sightly if the peas or carrots are sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and butter, from the fact that 
the color is better. 

Onions. 

The onion, garlic, leek, chives and shallot are of the 
same family as the lily. From the fact that the juices 
and odor of the onion are so strong, we want to soak 
them in water for some time before cooking, and change 
the water on them after the first ten minutes of cook- 
ing, and replenish the water with cold water with salt 
in it. They are wholesome, and considered good for 
the nerves. The common garden onion Ave have all the 
year. The Spanish, Bermuda and Texas silver-skin 
appear in the,mari^et during March. These onions are 



160 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

larger and more delicateiy flavored than our own onion. 
Garlic, chives and shallots are used in salads, and also 
for additional flavor for many dishes. 

Boiled Onions. 

Place onions in cold water to remove skins. Put to 
boil in plenty of salted water. Boil ten minutes, drain, 
cover again with salted water, and boil until tender, 
the time depending upon size of onion. They must be 
thoroughly done. A medium size will require about 
one hour. Drain and add a little milk or thin cream, 
cook a few moments, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

The Large White Onions in Cream. 

Remove skins, cut into slices about one-fourth inch 
thick, and with the finger separate into rings. Soak 
one hour in cold water to cover, with a little salt thrown 
into it. Drain and cover with boiling water, and boil 
h'ard for five minutes. Drain again and cover with 
b'oiling water with a little salt in it, and cook until 
quite tender. Dress with a thin cream sauce, to which 
you add one-third cup of thick cream. This is fine 
with duck or fowl. 

Stuffed Onion. 

Use the large Bermuda onion when in season (or 
the Spanish). Remove the outside skin, and boil for 
ten minutes 'in salted water; drain, and return to the 
fire. Cook until tender, but not broken. Remove from 
the stewpan, drain, and slightly cool. Remove part 
of the center, and prepare stuffing with onion which 
you have removed chopped fine and mixed with bread 
crumbs, cold chopped chicken or lamb left over from 
the roast or boiled leg, one-half cup pecans, and moist- 



VEGETABLES. 161 

ened with tomato juice or cream, and two tablespoons 
butter. Mix all well together and refill onions. Sprinkle 
with buttered bread crumbs, place in buttered bake- 
dish, and cook until well done and crumbs are browned. 

Fried Onion. 

Clean, cut into thin slices, and put two tablespoons 
of butter in hot frying-pan. Add onions and cook 
until tender, stirring occasionally with a fork so as 
not to let them bum. As soon as they are soft, season 
with salt and paprika. 

Carrots. 

The carrots are always in the market, and now we 
have both the new and old all the year round, and at 
present they are quite fashionable served as a vegetable, 
while formerly they were only used for flavoring for 
soups, sauces, etc. To prepare them, wash, scrape and 
cut off tops and roots; cut into cubes, balls or fancy 
shapes, as desired. The brightest color and best flavor 
of the carrot are near the skin. 

Carrots In Cream. 

Scrape, wash and cut in any shape you wish, in 
long strips about the size of a match, cubes, balls or 
with vegetable centers. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Season with one-half cup of rich cream, 
one tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste. Sim- 
mer for a few moments and serve. These are fine. 
Serve with fowl or veal. 

Carrot Border for Peas. 

Prepare as above, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper, and form in border round peas. They are 



162 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

nice served together. Bits of the carrot top with pink 
sweet-peas make a pleasing garnish. 

Celery. 

Celery is in th'e market all the year round, but the 
best is the smaller or home grown. That from Cali- 
fornia is too large and coarse to be tender, even with 
the bleaching. In Denver, Col., they. have what they 
call the Pascal celery, which is the most delicious I 
ever tasted. Even the outside green stalks are tender 
and edible. I find they are shipping this celery to dif- 
ferent markets, and during my work in Youngstown, 
Ohio, I found it there, much to my delight, as nothing 
makes so good a salad. Kalamazoo, ]\Iich., furnishes 
quantities of celery for all over the United States. 

To prepare celery cut off rorots and leaves, scrape, 
and scrub with vegetable-brush. Wash in cold water, 
and chill in water made cold with a piece of ice, and 
one-half tablespoon of lemon juice in the water to 
keep it white. The celery tops are more attractive 
when served if they are cut three or four times with 
a sharp knife, making the cut about one inch long each. 
This forms curls as it rests in the ice water. 

Creamed Celery. 

Clean, scrape and cut celery stalks into inch pieces. 
Boil half an hour, or until soft, in salted water. Drain 
and add one cup white sauce. The outside stalks are 
nice for creamed celery, if they are scraped and well 
brushed to remove all the stringy substance that the 
knife loosens. The hearts can be served as celery or 
used for a salad. 



VEGETABLES. 163^ 

Lettuce. 

The lettuce iS found in the market all the year, 
and is valuable for the table for the salts and water 
which it contains, althoug^h it is not a nutrient; but in 
spring, when the green vegetables are high-priced, it 
tones the stomach and keeps the blood cool. There 
are several varieties — the curly, the head lettuce and 
the lettuce Romain. The latter is held in high esteem 
by the connoisseur, dressed with French or mayon- 
naise dressing. To prepare lettuce for use, remove the 
outside leaves that can not be used, and with care sepa- 
rate remaining leaves. Wash in cold water and rinse. 
Shake all the water off you can without bruising the 
leaves; lay it with leaf turned dow^n on towel to dry. 
and shake and toss on towel until water is absorbed. 
If to be served as a salad, place in bowl as nearly in 
the original shape as possible. If the lettuce is not 
to be used for several hours, wrap it up in a clean 
cloth and place it on block of ice, and by the time you 
want it, it will be very crisp. The head lettuce is the 
most desirable for salads, and the curly lettuce for a 
garnish. Cut into ribbons, it makes an attractive bor- 
der, especially if you dot border with red radishes 
made into roses by cutting with sharp knife, and clip- 
ping the skin very thin, and resting in ice water until 
the petals curl. 

Chicory. 

Chicory or endive is in the market all the year, 
and used for salad or to garnish with. 

Watercress. 

Watercress is most abundant i»n spring and summer, 
and is used for garnish for special dishes, and salad 
combined with eggs. 



164 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beets. 

Wash beets carefully and avoid breaking skin, and 
do not have tops cuts too short. Cook in boiling water 
until tender. It will take three or three and one-half 
hours to cook them, according to size of the beet. Drain 
and plunge into cold water and remove the skins. Cut 
into slices or quarters. 

Sugared Beets, 

Use from four to six beets. Prepare as above, and 
after they are cut into slices, add two tablespoons 
butter, one tablesDOon sugar, salt and pepper to taste. 

Beets in Vinegar. 

Slice boiled beets thin. Season with salt, pepper 
and a little cayenne, and one-fourth cup sugar, with 
vinegar to cover. These are nice for salad garnish, 
and if you are going to use them in that way, it is 
well to leave them whole, in order that you can cut 
them in any &hape desired as you use them. They 
make pretty three-leaf clover'^ for potato salad. 

Beets in Sour Sauce. 

Cook in boiling water until they are tender. Plunge 
into cold water and remove skins. Cut into cubes or 
one-quarter-inch slices. Put into saucepan two table- 
spoons butter, one tablespoon flour, one-half cup vin- 
egar, salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Reheat the 
beets in the sauce, and serve. 

Beet Greens. 

Use the small beets about as large as a small marble ; 
clean and wash well. Boil in salted water until ten- 



VEGETABLES. 165 

der in a small quantity of water. Drain, rub skins off 
the small roots, chop, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

Dandelion Greens. 

These are prepared same as the beets, and cooked in 
about the same way with exception of more water, to 
dilute the bitter taste which we find in the dandelion, 
and it is this bitter that makes it such a good spring 
tonic. 

Green or String Beans. 

Our native string beans appear in the market about 
the last of June. The ones we find in the market in 
the winter come from the South and California, and 
are not nearly so tender or so fine flavored on account 
of coming so far packed in crates and boxes. There 
are several varieties of the beans. Some grow on low 
bushes and some of them are runners. The low ones 
are known as the bunch and wax bean, while the run- 
ners are called the pole bean, and are trained on long 
poles. Some of the pole beans grow^ as long as a foot, 
and are very tender and fine for the table. The cran- 
berry variety is much sought after for the table. The 
white w^ax bean is very delicate and tender. In select- 
ing string beans try to get one with a round pod, as 
they are always more tender than the flat pod, and less 
of the woody fiber in outside pod. 

String Beans. 

Remove strings, snap or cut into inch length, wash 
in cold water, and put to cook in boiling water. Do 
not use too much water, or you lose the flavor of the 
bean, and also some of the green color Avhich makes 
the dish attractive. Boil for two or three hours, ac- 



166 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

cording to the freshness of the bean. Season with salt 
after the first hour. When tender, drain and season 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

String Beans with Bacon. 

Use a cube of bacon two inches square; remove skin, 
cut into thin slices almost through, place in stewpan, 
and boil about fifteen minutes before you add the beans. 
String and cut the beans into inch lengths, wash and 
add to stewpan with the bacon, and simmer slowly for 
two hours, or until the water has cooked away, leaving 
the beans almost dry. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little cayenne. Serve the cube of bacon on top 
of beans. 

Shell Beans. 

The cran'berry bean is particularly fine shelled. 
Shell, wash and cook in boiling water for two hours. 
Cook slowly. Cook in small quantity of water, so there 
will be none to drain off when beans are done. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper. One pint of sweet com 
added to them ten minutes before serving is fine. 

Flageolets. 

The flageolet is a French product, and we get them 
canned. They are also dried, but the canned ones are 
the ones we use. They make a nice and pretty border 
for a fancy dish such as Chartreuse. They are im- 
proved by the addition of a little onion juice and 
minced parsley, added when the butter, salt and pepper 
are added. 

Lima Beans. 

Use as soon as possible after they are taken from 
the vine. Cook in boiling water until tender; it will 



VEGETABLES. 167 

take about thirty minutes for the fresh, tender ones. 
Drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, and one- 
fourth cup thick cream makes them much better. The 
white wax bean is nice seasoned this same way. They 
are called ''wax beans in cream " or "lima beans in 
cream." 

Peas. 

Peas contain a large per cent, of proteid, and when 
young are easy to digest, and are one of our most 
delicious vegetables. Our own native peas, fresh from 
the vines, are much better and more tender than the 
shipped ones. They appear in market about the first 
of June, except in the North, where they are later. 
The small, sweet peas are the best. We now find a 
variety known as the Telephone peas that are large 
and very sweet. These appear just after the early 
June. They have a large, flat pod, and are well filled. 
The marrowfat is a large pea, perhaps the largest, 
and is usually quite sweet. 

Creamed Peas. 

Remove peas from pod and wash. The imperfect 
ones will rise to the top when covered with water. 
Skin this off and drain the remaining ones. Cook until 
soft in a small quantity of boiling water, adding salt 
the last ten minutes of cooking. If the peas are young, 
they will cook tender in thirty minutes. Overcooking 
will spoil them. Season with butter, salt and pepper, 
and to a pint of peas one-fourth cup thick cream. Add 
a little sugar if not sweet enough. 

Young Peas in Butter. 

Use only very young, tender peas; shell them fresh, 
enough to make one and one-half pints. Put two table- 



168 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

spoons of butter into hot frying-pan, add peas, and 
shake constantly to keep them from browning. As soon 
as they are tender, season with salt and white pepper, 
and serve. These are fine. Asparagus tips can be 
treated the same way. 

Corn. 

The only corn to consider is the native sugar corn, 
although we find it in the market as early as June. 
By the first of August it becomes abundant, and is sweet 
and fine for the table. Among the best varieties is 
the "Country Gentleman." This is in the market by 
the last of July, and is fine and sweet. 

Boiled on the Cob. 

Remove the husks and silky threads that are on the 
corn, and cut into shape with sharp vegetable-knife. 
Cook in boiling water {without salt) for ten minutes, 
if the com is in the best condition, but if a little old, 
you may cook longer, but avoid too long cooking. Serve 
folded in napkin on platter. 

Succotash. 

Cook lima beans until tender, using just enough 
water so there will be none to drain off. When beans 
are tender and water cooked away, add equal amount 
of sweet corn cut from the cob, fresh. Place corn on 
top of the beans, cover and cook for ten minutes. Sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper. Stir until beans and 
corn are well blended, and serve in covered serving- 
dish. Instead of the lima bean, you can use the white 
wax bean, or the green pole bean ; also the dried navy 
bean. This is one of the most delicious dishes that 
appears on our table, if properly prepared. Kentucky 
is where you find it fine. 



VEGETABLES. 16^ 

Corn Oyster. 

1 cup grated raw corn. % cup flour. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 

Grate corn, add flour and egg well beaten, salt and 
pepper enough to season rather highly. Drop by spoon- 
fuls onto a hot, well -buttered griddle, or fry in deep 
fat. Care must be taken not to have them larger than 
a good-sized oyster. 

Fried Corn. 

Cut fresh sweet corn from the cob. Put into hot 
frying-pan one tablespoon lard, one tablespoon butter; 
as soon as they are quite hot, add the corn cut and 
scraped from the cob. This is done by first cutting a 
\ery thin cutting from the top of the grains of com, 
and with the back of knife press out the inside of the 
grain. Add this to hot fat, and stir w4th broad-bladed 
knife to keep it from burning, as the milk from the 
corn will burn very quickly. This is fine with fried 
chicken. 

Corn Fritters. 

1% cups corn. 1% teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup flour. % teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

If the corn is fresh, grate it; if canned, chop very 
fine. Add dry ingredients and yolks of eggs well 
beaten, then the whites beaten stiff. Cook in frying- 
pan in hot fat, and drain on paper. 

Aspara^js. 

The asparagus is a salt-water plant, and the finest 
we have in the market is that which is washed by the 
sea every day. We read that ages ago the Romans 
looked upon it as one of their most succulent and de- 



170 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

licious vegetables, and great care and attention were 
given by them to the cooking of it. Our best aspara- 
gus appears in the market about the last of April, and 
the large white varieties come from Oyster Bay. Fresh 
cut and tender, it will cook in about twenty minutes 
(great care should be taken not to cook it too long), 
and the heads (or tips) cook much quicker than the 
stalks, and for this reason we tie it up in uniform 
bunches and stand in stewpan heads up, so the steam 
cooks them while the stalks are boiling in the salted 
boiling water. The tough end of the stalk should be 
peeled. If this is done carefully, it makes the entire 
stalk edible. 

Boiled Asparagus with Butter. 

Prepare as directed above. Cook in boiling salted 
water for twenty minutes, or until tender. Untie and 
season with butter, salt and pepper, about a tablespoon 
of butter to a bunch of asparagus. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Prepare same as the above. Have toast ready, and 
dip quickly in the water in which the asparagus was 
cooked. Place enough of the asparagus on each piece 
of toast for a service. 

Asparagus in White Sauce. 

Cut asparagus into inch lengths. Boil in salted 
water until tender. The heads will cook in less time 
than the stalk, and for this reason you leave them until 
the last ten minutes of the boiling, when you lay them 
in the boiling water with the stalk. Drain and add 
to a thin white sauce, and serve in crustards of bread. 



VEGETABLES. 171 

Crustards. 

Cut rounds of bread one and one-half inches thick, 
and shape with a knife by removing the center to 
form a cup. Fr}^ in deep fat, or dip in melted butter 
and toast a golden brown in the oven. Fill with 
creamed asparagus. 

Asparagus a la Hollandaise. 

Prepare as directed. Tie in bunches and boil heads 
up in salted water until tender. Drain and pour over 
the tips a sauce Hollandaise. This is a nice vegetable 
course for a dinner. 

Asparagus with Poached Eggs. 

Prepare and boil in salted water until tender. Drain 
and arrange on squares of toast, dipped in the water 
where the asparagus was cooked, and on each service 
put a nicely poached egg and enough melted butter 
to season. This makes a nice dish for luncheon where 
meat is not served. 

Cucumbers. 

The cucumber as it grows fresh and crisp is the 
best form to serve it for the table, but it is often cooked. 
We find it in the market all the year round, from the 
garden during the summer months and hot-house and 
Southern markets during the winter. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. 

Select large cucumbers of uniform size, cut them 
into halves, and with a spoon and the vegetable knife 
remove the seeds. Stand in cold water until crisp. 
Drain and fill with chicken force-meat, using equal 



172 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

parts of. minced chicken and soft crumbs. Season 
rather highly, using paprika, salt and white pepper, 
and moisten with egg. Place upright on a trivet, and 
half surround with white stock, and cook for three- 
quarters of an hour. A good way to keep them in posi- 
tion is to place them in small wire basket, and rest the 
basket on the trivet. 

Fried Cucumbers. 

Select cucumbers with very small seeds. Pare and 
slice in slices about one-fourth inch thick, season with 
salt and pepper, crumbs and egg, and fry in deep fat. 
This tastes something like eggplant, but not so good. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

The salsify is an underground root, and is very nice 
to make a variety in the menu during the winter. To 
prepare it we wash, scrape and put it in cold water, 
with lemon juice or vinegar in the water to keep it from 
discoloring. 

Oyster Plant in Cream Sauce. 

Prepare as above directed; and rest in the acidulated 
water. Cut in one-half-inch slices, cook in boiling 
water until soft, drain, and add to thin white sauce. 

Oyster Plant Fritters. 

Grate the oyster plant, using a little lemon juice 
on it as you grate to keep from discoloring. Season 
with salt and pepper, and moisten with egg to bind it. 
Shape in small flat cakes, dredge with flour, and saute 
in hot butter. These are fine and not unlike an oyster 
in taste. Some boil the plants, then mash, but they 
are a much finer flavor made from the raw plants. 



VEGETABLES. 173 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips are not generally used on tables, but, if 
they are properly prepared, make a nice variety to 
the winter vegetable. They are a nice accompaniment 
to pork roast. They contain a large amount of woody 
fiber through the center, but this can be in a measure 
overcome by getting those that are young. To prepare 
them Ave wash, scrape and cut into pieces about one- 
fourth-inch thick lengthwise. Cook in boiling salted 
water until soft. Then they are ready to serve in the 
Avaj^s one may desire. If they are to be served with 
the pork roast, they are sprinkled with salt, pepper 
and a slight sprinkling of sugar. Place them in the 
pan with the roast, and baste with the fat. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Wash them thoroughly and scrub with small vege- 
table-brush. Cook in boiling water until soft. Drain 
and place in cold water, when the skin Avill slip off 
easily as it does off the beet. Mash and remove as 
much of the woody substance as possible. Season with 
butter, salt and pepper, a little sugar, and shape into 
fritters, and broAvn in equal parts of butter and lard. 

Sweet Peppers. 

It might be said that this is "an age of peppers." 
They are used in every way possible, as an additional 
flavor as well as for garnishing. They appear on all 
dishes that are planked, in the salads, potatoes, toma- 
toes and omelets. Of course, only the sweet ones are 
used. To prepare them, you cut a slice from the stem 
•end of each pepper, and remove all the seeds. Wash 



174 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

in cold water, drain, and they are ready for you to 
use in any way you may wish. 

Stuffed Peppers — No. 1. 

6 green peppers. i{. cup tomatoes (strained). 

1 small onion, finely 1 cup boiled rice, 
chopped. 2 tablespoons minced ham. 

2 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons buttered crumbs. 
1 cup chicken (minced). Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook onion in butter a few moments, add ham and 
minced chicken, and the rice and tomato. Thoroughly 
mix all the ingredients, and season to taste. Cool and 
fill the peppers that have been parboiled from eight to 
ten minutes. Cover the tops with buttered crumbs, 
and place in a casserole or baking-dish. Add three- 
fourths cup of stock or water, place in oven, cook for 
twenty minutes, and serve from dish in which they 
were cooked. 

Stuffed Peppers— No. 2. 

You can prepare same as above, and use three- 
fourths cup sauce, either brown or white, and one-half 
cup bread crumbs instead of the rice, and cold lamb or 
veal can be used instead of the chicken. Mushrooms 
are an addition to either of these recipes. 

Spinach. 

Spinach is one of the most wholesome of the greens, 
and some great writer (Curwen, I think) has said, 
"They are to the stomach what a new broom is to a 
dirty room." It is obtainable in our market the year 
round, but we find the best in the spring or early sum- 
mer, grown outside. The flavor is finer and the color 
much prettier. It is principally potash, salts and water. 



VEGETABLES. 175 

Boiled Spinach. 

'Remove roots and wilted leaves. Wash thoroughly 
in cold water, using two pans, lifting from one pan 
to the other, so as to free it from sand. You will find 
you will not get rid of the sand unless you lift each 
time to the second pan. Wash as long as you find 
sand in the pan. For young, tender spinach place in 
stewpan with one-half cup w^ater and boil for twenty 
minutes, or until tender. The old spinach requires 
one quart water, and longer cooking, with salt in the 
water. As soon as tender, drain thoroughly, chop fine, 
and season with butter, salt and pepper. Place on 
serving-dish, and garnish with hard-boiled egg cut into 
slices or quartered. Spinach cooked in plenty of water 
is greener than that cooked in its own juices, but is 
not so highly flavored. 

Spinach Puree. 

Pick over and wash one-half peck spinach. Cook 
in plenty of boiling salted water until tender. One 
and one-half teaspoons soda added to the water while 
cooking improves the color (and have the vessel un- 
covered always in cooking spinach). Drain, chop fine, 
and rub through puree sieve. Reheat, and season with 
three tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon flour, one 
teaspoon sugar, one-half cup thick cream. Garnish 
with hard-boiled egg and croutons of fried bread. 

Spinach a la Bechamel. 

Prepare one-half peck spinach, boiled, and chopped 
very fine. Put two tablespoons butter into hot omelet- 
pan, with two tablespoons of flour. Turn in the 
spinach, and season wdth salt and pepper, and stir thor- 



176 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

ouerhly and pour on gradually three-fourths cup thin 
cream. Garnish with \egg yolks land white passed 
through potato ricer, and sprinkled over the top. 

Pumpkin. 

Pumpkin is either steamed or boiled to prepare, or 
it can be grated and used at once for pumpkin pie. 
Tn the South they stir into corn bread one cup of the 
cooked pumpkin, or one cup of the grated pumpkin 
could be used in the same way. 

Tomatoes. 

We have tomatoes the A^ear round, but the best are 
those grown in the gardens that are obtainable from 
the middle of July, and are much better flavored than 
those grown in hot-houses and used for winter con- 
sumption. The price of the hot-house tomato is very 
high. Tomatoes are brought from the South as early 
as April 15th, and these have very good color, but are 
rather tasteless, for the reason they are picked green, 
packed into baskets and the baskets placed in crates. 
Each tomato is wrapped in thin paper, and in this w^ay 
they are ripened. If, in the fall of the year before the 
frost comes, you will pull up tomato vines filled w^ith 
well -developed green tomatoes, and hang them in a 
warm cellar, roots up, with as much earth as possible 
on the roots, the tomatoes will ripen and be very good. 
There is quite a variety of tomatoes to choose from 
during the summer. Some are much more solid, with 
less seed and more meat, than other varieties; these 
are the best to choose. The Acme is one of the choicest. 



VEGETABLES. 177 

To Prepare Tomatoes. 

Wipe, place in a wire basket, and cover with boiling 
water. Let them stand until the skin will be easy to 
remove; lift out and peel. Chill them, and they are 
ready to serve as sliced tomatoes by cutting them into 
slices one-third of an inch thick, and arrange in pretty 
form on a fiat platter. Garnish with curly lettuce 
leaves, or j^ou can cut the lettuce into ribbons, and 
border platter with it. 

Stew^ed Tomatoes. 

Wipe, pare, and cut into pieces. Stew for thirty 
minutes, being careful to stir frequently to keep the 
seeds from catching on the bottom of stewpan and 
burning. Season with butter, salt, pepper, sugar, and 
a few bread crumbs to thicken just slightly; flour can 
be used if liked better. 

Stewed Tomatoes a la Spanish. 

1 green pepper. 1 quart pared tomatoes, 

1 onion, cut fine. cut into small pieces. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
2 tablespoons flour. Dash cayenne. 

Salt and white pepper. 

Cook pepper and onion in the butter, add the flour 
and seasonings, then the tomatoes; cook until done; 
it will take about thirty minutes, stirring frequently. 
This is very nice to serve with meat or fish, and is 
fine to use for macaroni or spaghetti. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

If fresh tomatoes are used, prepare in the usual way, 
and slice in rather thick slices. Put in a well-buttered 
bake-dish a layer of buttered cracker crumbs, then a 



178 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

layer of sliced tomato, sprinkled with salt, pepper and 
sugar, then a second layer of cracker crumbs, then to- 
matoes seasoned, finishing with buttered crumbs. Cook 
in hot oven for thirty minutes. If canned tomatoes 
are used, drain them on colander to free them from 
some of their juice, and proceed the same as above. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Wipe, leaving on the skin ; remove a thin slice from 
top and bottom, and cut into one-half-inch slices. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper, dip into fine bread crumbs, 
and saute in hot butter. Lift up carefully with broad- 
bladed knife, place on serving-dish, and sprinkle slight- 
ly with powdered sugar. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Prepare same as above, and dip into crumbs, then 
in eggs, and back into the crumbs. Place on well-but- 
tered broiler, and broil until browned on both sides. 
It will take three or four minutes to each side. These 
are nice breakfast dishes, and are used to garnish meat 
and fish dishes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Use six nice, firm tomatoes ; pare, remove seeds and 
pulps, sprinkle with salt, invert and let them rest on 
plate for half-hour. Cook two tablespoons butter with 
one finely chopped onion for five minutes. Add three- 
fourths cup finely chopped cold chicken, veal or lamb, 
three-fourths cup stale bread crumbs, and tomato pulp 
freed from the seeds. Mix all together and season with 
salt, pepper, one tablespoon sugar and a little cayenne. 
Cook all for about five minutes, then add one egg 
slightly beaten, and refill the tomato cups with the mix- 
ture. Place in well-buttered pan, sprinkle with but- 



VEGETABLES. 179 

tered crumbs, and bake in oven for thirty minutes. 
Keep heat low enough so the crumbs brown, but do 
not burn. 

Deviled Tomatoes. 

4 tomatoes. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

3 tablespoons butter. \i teaspoon salt. 

3 teaspoons powdered sugar. 1 Qgg. 

Yolk one hard-boiled egg. Flour. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. Salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Peel and cut tomatoes in slices, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in hot butter. 
Kemove them to hot platter, and pour over them the 
dressing made by creaming the butter and adding the 
dry ingredients, and the cooked egg rubbed to a paste, 
the egg slightly beaten and the vinegar. Cook over hot 
water until it thickens, pour over tomatoes, and serve. 

Tomato Toast. 

Press one pint of prepared tomatoes through a 
sieve fine enough to catch the seeds. Place in sauce- 
pan, heat, and season with one tablespoon butter, one- 
half tablespoon sugar, salt and white pepper to taste. 
Make six pieces of toast, brown on both sides. Butter, 
place on hot platter. Just as you are ready to serve, 
add one cup of sweet cream to the tomatoes, and pour 
over the toast. 

Shrimp in Tomato Cups. 

Prepare tomatoes same as for stuffed tomatoes. 
Have shrimp prepared and seasoned with butter, salt 
and pepper. The shrimp can be broken or left whole, 
according to taste. Mix with them a little of the pulp 
chopped fine, and refill the cups, place in a casserole, 
and bake twentv minutes in oven. 



180 SCIENTIP^IC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
ENTREES. 

ENTREES are dishes served between any of the 
regular courses. They are the croquettes, tim- 
bales, fritters, etc. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

2 cups chopped chicken. 1 teaspoon parsley (minced). 

1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon minced celery. 

% teaspoon onion juice. A few grains cayenne. 

1 cup thick white sauce. Salt and white pepper. 

Add seasonings to chicken and chicken to sauce. 
Thoroughly mix and spread on pan to cool. Shape 
into croquettes. Crumb, egg and crumb again. Fry 
in deep fat, and drain on paper. Serve on hot platter 
on fringed napkin. 

Chicken and Mushroom Croquettes. 

Prepare same as chicken croquettes, using one and 
one-half cups chopped chicken meat and one-half cup 
chopped mushrooms. In preparing the meat and mush- 
rooms for croquettes, it is nicer to use a pair of scissors 
and cut in fine bits instead of chopping. 

Chicken and Sweetbread Croquettes. 

1 cup minced sweetbreads. Vo cup nut meats, cut fine. 

1 cup minced chicken. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 cup thick white sauce. 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 teaspoon onion juice. Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Prepare same as chicken croquettes. Mix all in- 
gredients well together, cool, shape, crumb, egg, and 



ENTREES. 181 

crumb again, fry in deep fat and serve. Either wal- 
nut or pecan-nut meat can be used for these. 

Sweetbread and Chicken Cutlets. 

Use the sweetbread and chicken mixture, and shape 
into cutlets. Fry, drain, and with the point of a sharp 
knife insert into each a one-and-one-half -inch piece of 
macaroni to represent the cutlet bone. Serve with thin 
white sauce made with chicken stock instead of milk. 

Cheese Croquettes. 

2 tablespoons butter. ly^ cups cream cheese, cut 
% cup flour. into cubes. 

% cup milk. Cayenne (dash). 

Yolks 3 eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. 

^lake a thick white sauce of the milk, butter, flour 
and yolks of the eggs. Remove from fire and stir in 
the cubes of cheese. Cool, cut into strips or squares, 
dip into crumbs, egg, acid crumb again. Fry in deep 
fat, drain and serve as a cheese entree. 

Chestnut Balls. 

1 cup mashed French chestnuts. 3 yolks of egg3. 

3 tablespoons thick cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

3^^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix ingredients, shape into balls, crumb and egg; 
fry in deep fat, and drain. 

Rice Croquettes. 

% cup rice. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup boiling water. i{, teaspoon salit. 

1 cup milk. Yolks 2 eggs. 

AVash rice in three waters, rubbing well with the 
hands. Put on in the cup of boiling water. Cook un- 



182 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

covered until the water is absorbed. Add milk and 
turn into double boiler. Cover and steam until rice 
is soft. Remove, add butter and yolks of eggs, cool, 
shape, crumb and egg; fry in deep fat, and drain. 
These are nice shaped like baskets, fried, and jelly or 
preserves served in them. Then they are used as a 
garnish for game or fowl. 

Lamb or Veal Croquettes. 

2 cups cold veal or lamb, A little onion juice. 

cut into cubes. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 cup thick white sauce. 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. 
1 yolk of egg. 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 teaspoon minced celery. Salt, pepper and cayenne 

to taste. 

Mix meat with the seasonings, and add the cooked 
yolk of egg mashed very fine. Turn into the cup of 
white sauce, and add the uncooked yolk slightly beaten. 
The cup of sauce may be made with white stock from 
the veal instead of milk. These are shaped, crumbed, 
egged and crumbed again, and fried in deep fat, then 
drained on paper and served with tomato sauce highly 
seasoned. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

Two cups flaked salmon, one cup thick white sauce, 
seasoned with one teaspoon lemon juice, dash of cay- 
enne, and salt to taste. Add sauce to salmon, then the 
seasonings. Spread on plate to cool, shape, crumb, 
egg, and crumb again; fry in deep fat, drain and serve. 
Tomato sauce, seasoned with onion and green sweet- 
peppers, is nice served with these croquettes. 



ENTREES. 183 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Two cups lobster meat cut fine, one cup thick white 
sauce, one-fourth teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, dash of cayenne, salt, and a little white pepper. 
Add seasonings to lobster, then add the white sauce. 
Cool, shape, crumb, egg, and crumb again. 

The above mixture can be formed into cutlets, 
crumbed, egged and fried. Insert a tip from the end 
of the small claw into each cutlet, stack round a mound 
of parsley or cress, and serve with Tartare sauce. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

Clean and scald one pint of oysters in their own 
liquor, drain thoroughly, remove the tough part, and 
cut soft part into pieces. Make a thick sauce, using 
one-half cup of the oyster liquor instead of milk, and 
one-half cup thick cream, yolk of one egg, and season 
with lemon juice, salt, pepper and paprika. A half 
cup of boiled macaroni or half cup of small mushrooms 
cut fine can be added to the oyster meat before adding 
the sauce. Cool, shape, crumb, egg, and crumb again. 
Fry in deep fat, and drain. 

Swedish Timbale Batter. 

•14 cup flour. 1/^ cup milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon salad oil. % teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk slowly and beaten 
egg, then the olive oil. Use care that there are no 
lumps, and strain if there are lumps. Let it stand for 
a short time, and shape with timbale iron. Heat 
fat until hot enough to fry uncooked food. Put iron 
into hot fat, deep enough to more than cover it, and 
let it remain until iron is hot. Lift it from the hct 



18-i SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

fat and allow it to drip an instant, then lower it into 
batter three-fourths its depth. The batter will adhere 
to the hot iron. Immerse in the hot fat and fry to a 
golden brown, then drain on paper. The timbale cup 
will drop easily from the iron as soon as cooked. As 
soon as you find it leaving the iron, turn the iron on 
the side to keep it from falling off. These little cups 
are nice for creamed chicken, oyster, fish, meats, or 
for a fruit course at the beginning of the meal. The 
Fontage and Eosetta irons are used in the same way. 
They answer the same purpose as the patty shell, and 
are much less trouble to get ready if time is short in 
which we have to make ready. 

Lobster Timbale. 

Sprinkle battered small individual timbale moulds 
with lobster coral rubbed through a strainer. Line 
the mould with fish force-meat. Fill center with 
creamed lobster and cover with force-meat. Place in 
pan on folded paper. Half surround with hot water, 
cover with buttered paper, and cook for twenty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Unmould and serve with 
Bechamel sauce. 

Chicken Timbale. 

Use breast and second joints of large chicken that 
will weigh three and one-half or four pounds, four eggs, 
and one and one-half cups thick cream. Grind chicken 
in meat-grinder, beat the eggs, and add one at a time, 
stirring imtil the mixture is thoroughly smooth. Add 
the cream, which must be very thick. Season with 
salt, pepper and paprika. Turn into buttered timbale 
mould, and bake same as lobster timbale. Serve Avith 
Alamanda, 



ENTREES. 185 

Timbales are made with rice spaghetti, macaroni, 
€tc. In using the macaroni and spaghetti, you line the 
mould with them, first boiling until tender, then ar- 
range them either in lengths or by coiling them round 
the bottom and sides of the moulds, and fill them with 
either chicken or fish force-meat. They are all cooked 
in the same way, and served with some nice fish or meat 
sauce. 

Fritters. 

The fritters all come under the head of entrees, and 
are served between courses, with different flavt)red 
syrups and sauces. 

Fritter Batter I. 

IV2 cups flour. % cup milk. 

2 teaspoons baking-powder l egg. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk slowly, and then the 
egg unbeaten, and beat the whole mixture very hard 
to lighten the egg. 

Fritter Batter for Vegetables 11. 

1 cup flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

% cup milk. Vi teaspoon pepper. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk slowly, then the egg 
beaten until very light. 

Batter III. 

1 cup flour. 2 eggs, whites and yolks 

Vi teaspoon salt. beaten separately. 

% cup milk. 1 tablespoon olive oil. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk a little at a time, and 
beat rapidly to keep batter smooth. Add yolks beaten 
until lemon color and thick, and whites beaten stiff, 
then the olive oil. 



186 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Apple Fritters I. 

Two tart apples pared, cored and cut into very thim 
slices, and stirred into batter I. Drop by spoonfuls 
into hot fat, and fry until a golden brown and the 
apples are tender. Drain on paper and serve with hot 
lemon sauce. 

Apple Fritters 11. 

Core, pare, and cut apples into one-quarter-inch, 
slices, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, and rest 
them for half an hour. Drain and dip into batter I., 
and fry in hot fat. Drain, arrange on hot platter, and 
serve with hard sauce flavored with orange. 

Orange Fritters. 

Peel two oranges and separate into sections, using 
care to remove all the white outer covering. With a 
pointed knife remove the seeds. Dip the sections in 
batter, fry, and serve with wine sauce. 

Banana Fritters. 

3 bananas. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

14 cup powdered sugar. 3 tablespoons sherry wine. 

Batter I. 

Eemove the skins, scrape all the astringent part from 
the outside, mash very fine, and add sugar, wine and 
lemon juice. Fry in deep fat, drain, and serve with 
hot lemon sauce. 

Fruit Fritters. 

Fresh pears, apricots and peaches can all be used 
for fritters, by cutting them in slices or in round shape 
as the fancy may suggest, and the same batter will an- 
swer in any case. Fruit fritters are always served 



ENTREES. 187 

with a sauce that goes nicely with the kind of fruit 
the fritter is made from. Wine can be used in any 
fritter sauce. 

Cauliflower Fritters. 

Use cold boiled cauliflower, seasoned with salt and 
pepper and paprika, broken in nice-sized pieces to 
serve, and dipped in batter II. Fry in deep fat and 
drain on paper. 

Tomato Fritters. 

314 cups tomatoes. 1 onion, with 2 cloves stuck 

2 tablespoons sugar. in it. 

Dash cayenne. 1 tablespoon raw ham. 

1 teaspoon salt. % cup butter. 

^2 cup cornstarch. 

Cook tomato, onion, cloves, ham and sugar together 
in stewpan for fifteen minutes. Rub through a sieve 
and add seasonings. Melt butter, add cornstarch, and 
heat ; add tomatoes slowly, cook a few moments, re- 
move from fire, and add a slightly beaten egg. Turn 
into buttered shallow tin pan and cool. When firm, 
turn on board, and cut into squares, strips or diamonds. 
Roll in crumbs, egg, and crumb again. Fry in deep 
hot fat, drain, and serve very hot. These are delicious. 

Clam Fritters. 

Use one pint of clams, two eggs, one and one-third 
cups fiour, two teaspoons baking-powder, pepper and 
salt. Add baking-powder, salt and pepper to flour, 
then beat the eggs until very light without separating. 
Pour milk slowly on dry ingredients, beat until smooth, 
fold in egg, then add clams that have been drained of 
their liquor and chopped. Drop by spoonfuls into hot 
fat, and fry. Drain on paper, and serve soon as cooked. 
Garnish with fried parsley. 



188 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Use one pint oysters, two tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons flour, three-fourths cup milk or white 
stock, yolks two eggs, one tablespoon finely minced 
parsley, one teaspoon grated horseradish, one teaspoon 
lemon juice, a little cayenne. Wash, drain and slightly 
chop oysters. Make the sauce with the butter, flour, 
milk (or stock), and add eggs, seasonings and oysters. 
Arrange in scallop shells, cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until the 
crumbs are w^ell browned, then serve. 

Deviled Crabs. 

Use one cup chopped crab meat, one-half cup finely 
chopped mushrooms, two tablespoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, one cup white stock, yolks two eggs. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, paprika and parsley, and one- 
fourth cup sherry wine. Make sauce with butter, flour 
and stock, add yolks of eggs and seasonings, then the 
crab meat and mushrooms. Fill crab shells rounding 
full, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

Shad Roe, Tartar Sauce. 

Clean shad roe, and cook in boiling salted w^ater, 
witli a tablespoon of lemon juice added, for twenty 
minutes. Plunge into cold water, drain, and remove 
all membrane and split in halves, brown in hot butter 
on both sides, and serve with Tartar sauce. This is 
much esteemed as an entree. 

Sweetbreads a la Spanish. 

For six Spanish peppers use one pair of sw^eet- 
breads, parboiled and cut into small pieces; two table- 



ENTREES. 180 

spoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one cup chicken 
stock, one and one-half cups mushrooms cut into small 
pieces, one-third cup thick cream. Make sauce with 
the butter, flour and stock, add the cream, and season 
with salt, pepper and paprika. Cut a slice from the 
stem end of peppers, remove seeds, and parboil in 
salted water for fifteen minutes. Cool, fill and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Place in buttered baking-dish 
or casserole. Pour around them a stock or sauce made 
with one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, one 
cup chicken stock, one-third cup thick cream; season 
with salt, pepper and a little onion juice. Bake until 
crumbs are well browned. Serve the sauce that is 
round them with each service of the peppers. This is 
a fine dish. 

Fillets of Chicken. 

Use fillets of two chickens, sprinkle with salt, dip 
in thick cream, roll in flour, and fry to a golden brown 
in hot lard. Place in a pan, and bake for eight or ten 
minutes. Serve on a mound of boiled and seasoned 
rice, with a thin white sauce. Grarnish with parsley. 

Cheese Fondue. 

1 cup soft bread crumbs. Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 cup scalded milk. Whites 3 eggs. 

% pound cheese cut in 1 tablespoon butter, 

small pieces. 2 pinches salt. 

Mix milk, bread crumbs, cheese, butter and salt; 
add yolks beaten until thick and lemon color. Fold in 
whites beaten stiff. Bake in moderate oven in but- 
tered baking-dish for twenty minutes. 



190 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Ramequins Souffles. 

Make same as cheese souffle, and bake in ramequin 
dishes. 

Cheese Souffles. 

■y.2 cup scalded milk. 1 cup grated cheese. 

2 tablespoons butter. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons flour. Whites 3 eggs. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Melt butter, add flour, and slowly the scalded milk, 
then the seasonings and cheese. Remove from fire, and 
add yolks beaten until thick. Cool and fold in the 
whites beaten until stiff. Pour in buttered dish, .and 
bake twenty minutes in slow oven. 

Patties. 

Patty shells are filled with creamed sweetbreads, 
oysters, chicken and mushrooms ; oysters and mushrooms 
in white or brown sauce. These are all served in patty 
shell as a course at luncheon or dinner. They are ar- 
ranged prettily on a fringed napkin, and garnished 
with cress, parsley, etc. 

Quail Pie. 

Remove the breast and legs from six quails. Season 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in 
butter. To the butter in the pan add one stalk of celery, 
a sprig of parsle^^ cut fine and a few peppercorns. 
Cook for five minutes. Put th^ backs of the birds in 
stewpan with the butter and celery, cover with cold 
water, and simmer for one hour. Drain from bones and 
celery, and make a sauce for the pie by thickening with 
flour and butter rubbed together. Season with salt 
and pepper and a little white wine. Allow one bird 



ENTREES. 191 

for each person. Ponr over the bird the sauce, and 
cover with a rich plain paste made with half butter 
and half lard. Bake to a crisp golden brown in oven. 
Serve with currant or cranberry jelly. 

Aspic Jelly. 

Aspic jelly is always made with meat stock, and is 
used for elaborate entrees where fish, chicken, game, 
tongue, vegetables, etc., are combined in it, and served 
unmoulded. 

Rule for Aspic. 

1 tablespoon each of car- y^ teaspoon peppercorns, 
rot, onion and celery. 1^2 cups white wine. 

Sprig parsley. 1 box gelatine. 

Sprig thyme. 1 quart white or brown stock. 

V2 a bayleaf. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 clove. "WTiites 2 eggs. 

Put vegetables, seasonings, and one cup of the wine 
in saucepan. Cook for seven or eight minutes and 
strain. Add gelatine and lemon juice to stock. Heat 
to boiling-point, acid liquor from the cooked vegetables, 
and set aside to cool. When cool enough, add the 
beaten whites of the two eggs diluted with some of the 
cooled stock. Stir eggs into the mixture and bring- 
slowly to the boiling-point, then rest it on back of 
stove for ten minutes. Strain through cheoisecloth 
placed over a fine strainer. Add remaining one-half 
cup of wine, and aspic is ready to use for moulding 
anything you desire. 

Tongue in Aspic. 

Use cooked tongue that has been skinned, roots re- 
moved and shaped by placing skewer in the end, which 
you remove when it is cool and you find the shape will 



192 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

not change. Place a pan that best suits the shape of 
the tongue in ice-water, cover bottom with brown as- 
pic, and when firm decorate with cooked carrot, turnip, 
beets, egg whites, lemon, parsley, or anything you like — 
one or two of either, or as much variety as you choose. 
Place them in and cover again with aspic, adding a 
little at a time with a spoon so as not to disarrange 
your vegetables. When the last addition becomes set, 
you place the tongue, and add slowly the remaining 
aspic. Chill thoroughly, turn on serving-dish, ;and 
decorate with parsle}^ and slices of lemon. 

Tomatoes, stuffed olives, bird fruit and nuts, 
chickens boned, hard-boiled eggs, etc., are all served 
in aspic jelly. The decoration should always be in har- 
mony with what is used. 

Salmon Moulded w^ith Cucumber Sauce. 

1 can salmon steak. Yolks 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 teaspoon mustard. % cup cream. 

■y2 tablespoon flour. % cup vinegar. 

A little cayenne. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water. Mix dry ingredi- 
ents, and add egg yolks, vinegar and cream. Cook in 
double boiler until it is thick, stirring constantly. Add 
to the salmon that has been removed from the can, 
rinsed in hot water and broken into flakes. Fill in- 
dividual moulds and serve with cucumber sauce. It 
must be thoroughly chilled. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

P>eat one cup of double cream until stiff and firm. 
Season with salt and a little white pepper. Add gradu- 



ENTREES. 193 

ally two tablespoons of lemon juice and one large or 
two small cucumbers, cut the long ways and seeds re- 
moved, chopped and drained. This is a fine fish course 
for a hot day. 

Birds in Aspic. 

Clean, bone, stuff and truss birds. Steam over the 
body bones or roast ; steaming over the bones is the best 
way. Put a mould in pan of ice-water, and cover bot- 
tom of pan with aspic. When firm, garnish with truf- 
fles, egg custard sliced thick, and cut into fancy shapes. 
Arrange in any design you fancy. Add aspic by spoon- 
fuls that they may not be displaced. When the mix- 
ture is set to the depth of one inch, place in the birds 
breasts down. Should you wish to decorate sides of 
mould, dip pieces in the jelly and they will stick to 
the sides of pan. Add remaining mixture gradually. 

Egg Custard. 

Beat yolks of two eggs slightly, and add one-fourth 
cup milk and a few grains of salt. Strain into a small 
buttered mould and place in boiling water until the 
custard is firm. Beat whites slightly; cook the same 
way until firm. Turn from mould and cut into fancy 
shape, and use to decorate dishes in aspic. A great 
many nuts are used for aspic dishes, and are a great 
addition as well as nutritious. 

Creamed Lobster. 

iy2 cups chopped lobster % teaspoon paprika. 

meat. 2 eggs, whites and yolks 
1 tablespoon butter. beaten separately. 

1 tablespoon flour. % cup thin cream. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



194 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Make sauce with butter, flour, seasonings and cream. 
Add yolks of eggs and lobster meat, and stir well, then 
fold in the beaten whites. Fill buttered moulds three- 
fourths full, set in pan of hot water with a piece of 
folded paper under the moulds, and cover with but- 
tered paper. Place in oven and cook until firm. Serve 
with lobster sauce. 



NUTS. 195 



CHAPTER XIX. 

NUTS. 

NUTS have grown in popularity as their food value 
becomes better understood. They should frequently 
appear upon the table of every home, for they are 
both nutritious and wholesome. The almond, walnut, 
hickory-nut, pecan, chestnut and peanut are all de- 
sirable for home consumption. They are used in salads, 
sauces, candies, custard, cream, ice-cream, gelatines, etc. 

Chestnuts. 

TO SHELL. 

Put a teaspoon of butter into a frying-pan, and 
when melted turn in two or three cups of chestnuts 
which have been cross-cut on the flat side. Shake the 
pan to butter the chestnuts, and place in the oven for 
five minutes. When taken out the shell and brown 
skin should be easily removed. Use a small vegetable- 
knife to prepare them. 

Boiled Chestnuts. 

Remove the shells, and cook in boiling water for ten 
minutes. Skim them out, and the brown skin should 
come oft' easily. They can again be placed in the boiling 
water and cooked until tender when pierced with a 
fork or skewer; they can then be served whole or 
mashed. They are seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, 
and cream if desired. They are also added to stuffing 
for chicken, turkey and veal. 



196 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

To Blanch Almonds. 

Remove shells, pour boiling water over them, and 
allow them to stand for a short time. Pour off hot 
water and add cold, when the skins should rub off 
easily. 

Roasted Almonds. 

Spread blanched almonds on a tin and place in oven, 
and brown to a light golden brown. 

Salted Almonds. 

Blanch one-fourth pound of Jordan almonds, dry 
them on a towel, add one tablespoon of good olive oil, 
and stir well that each almond is coated with the oil. 
Place in oven and brown to a golden brown. Remove 
to brown paper and shake salt on them, and stir until 
all are salted. If too salt, wipe them on napkin to 
remove some of the salt. 

Salted Peanuts. 

Buy the peanuts that have not been roasted. Re- 
move skins and prepare same as almonds. 

Salted Pecans. 

The best way to buy them is to procure those that 
are removed from the shell, as they are hard to 
shell without breaking. Prepare them same as 
almonds, using care not to leave them in the oven 
too long. As they have the brown skin, it will be harder 
to tell when they are done. The best way is to taste one. 

Peanut Butter. 

Shell and remove inner brown skin of roasted pea- 
nuts; grind in the meat-chopper, using the finest cutter, 



NUTS. 197 

then rub to paste in bowl and wooden pestle. Add 
enough butter gradually to make the peanut meat cling 
together. Season with salt and paprika, and pack in 
covered tumblers to use as needed. It is especially fine 
mixed with chopped figs for sandwiches. 

Chestnut Preserves. 

Cover blanched chestnuts with boiling water, and 
simmer slowly until tender; it will take from one and 
one-half to two hours. Weigh the nuts before cooking, 
and make syrup of sugar and water same in weight as 
nuts. Cook syrup until thick. Add nuts and cook for 
one and one-half hours. Strain out nuts, and r.vluce 
syrup. Place chestnuts in glass jars. Flavor ^yrup 
with vanilla, reduce until very thick, and pour over 
the nuts. This makes a very rich preserve, and is used 
in pudding sauces, pudding, etc. 

Chestnut Cup. 

Use one tablespoon of preserved chestnuts cut into 
slices, with a little of the syrup in bottom of a sherbert 
glass. Put in a spoonful of vanilla ice-cream with 
whipped and flavored cream on top. 

Nut Cutlets. 

2 cups soft bread crumbs. 1 cup milk, 

1 cup nut meat. i^ teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. i^ teaspoon pepper. 
2 tablespoons flour. 1 egg. 

A little paprika. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt and pepper, then the 
milk slowly. Stir until boiling, then remove from fire, 
add the beaten egg, stir until the egg is set, then add 
the nut meat and the fine crumbs. Mix thoroughly and 



198 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

turn onto plate to cool. Shape into cutlets. Cnimb 
and egg. Fry in deep, hot fat, drain on paper, and 
place a two-inch length of plain boiled macaroni in 
small end of each cntlet. Serve with tomato sauce. 
Pecan-nuts, walnuts or our native hickory-nuts may be 
used for these cutlets. 

Nut Omelet. 

^/4 cup ground nuts. 14 teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs. % teaspoon paprika. 

3 tablespoons water. Butter size of walnut. 

Beat eggs, after separating yolks, until lemon color 
and thick, and whites very stiff. Add salt, paprika 
and nut meat to yolks, and mix well, then fold in the 
whites, and in hot omelet-pan put the piece of butter, 
and with knife butter bottom and sides of pan. Turn 
in the eggs and spread on pan, and cook slowly, shak- 
ing so the omelet does not burn. When well set, fold 
and turn on hot platter. Garnish and serve at once. 



EGGS. 199 



CHAPTER XX. 
EGGS. 

EGGS are considered a typical food for both the 
sick and well, from the fact that they contain 
the elements required in the proportions necessary to 
support the body, but, on account of their food value 
being in such a concentrated form, it is always neces- 
sary to combine them with some carbonaceous food to 
give bulk in the stomach to produce the proper action 
to cause digestion. For this reason we serve potatoes 
and rice, or some food rich in starch. A pound of eggs 
(nine eggs) is considered the equivalent in nutritive 
value to a pound of meat or a pound of cheese. From 
this standpoint you can see that eggs can be used by 
the economist when they sell at twenty-five cents per 
dozen, as it is considered that seven eggs are all that 
is necessary for a day, combined with the starchy food. 
Eggs want to be strictly fresh for cooking, to have good 
results. Eggs, after the first twenty-four hours, deteri- 
orate. Owing to the shell being porous, the water passes 
off through the pores, air rushes in to replace the vacu- 
um, and this will soon produce decomposition. In the 
white of the egg albumen is found in its purest form. 
Eggs always want to be cooked at a low degree of heat, 
for the reason that albumen will coagulate at a tem- 
perature of from 135° to 160° F., and, if cooked too 
quickly, they become tough and hard to digest. In the 
composition of the egg we find: 

Proteid, 14.9%. Mineral matter, 1%. 

Fat, 10.6%. Water, 73.5%. 



200 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Boiled Eggs. 

This is the simplest form of cooking the egg. Have 
a saucepan of boiling water, and lower the egg into 
the water with a spoon so as not to crack the shell. 
'Remove the saucepan to back of stove where they keep 
hot, but do not boil. Cook for eight or ten minutes 
if liked soft, or thirty-five to forty if liked hard. If 
you want to use them to decorate where the whites 
are used, let them boil up for an instant and you can 
peel them without breaking the whites. In using hard- 
boiled eggs for making dishes, plunge them into cold 
water as soon as they are done, to keep the yolk from 
discoloring. To cook boiled eggs perfectly they want 
to be kept at a uniform temperature, about 175° F. 

To Poach Eggs. 

Use a shallow pan and fill full enough to have the 
water cover the eggs, allowing a teaspoon of salt to 
a quart of water and a teaspoon of lemon juice or 
vinegar, lemon juice preferred. When the water is 
boiling, stir it round and round, and drop the eggs 
in one at a time, breaking each one in a cup, using 
care not to disturb the membrane covering the yolks. 
Do not allow the water to boil, and as soon as there is 
a film over the top and whites are set, they are done. 
Remove them with a buttered skimmer, and slip onto a 
round of buttered toast and trim the white into shape. 
Let each person season eggs to suit their individual 
tastes. Eggs can be poached in egg-poacher or muffin 
rings if preferred. Butter them before dropping in 
the eggs. 



EGGS. 201 

Poached Eggs with Mushrooms. 

Saute slices of fresh mushrooms in butter, and place 
on toasted bread. Moisten all with some thick cream, 
arrange a poached egg on each mushroom, and serve 
with a cream sauce. 

Eggs Poached in Tomato Sauce. 

Poach eggs and arrange on hot platter without 
toast, and pour over all a highly seasoned tomato 
sauce. 

Poached Eggs in Potato Shells. 

Scrub and rinse six large potatoes of uniform size, 
and place in the oven to bake. As soon as they are 
soft cut slice from top, and with a spoon scoop out the 
inside and mash, and season as for mashed potato, 
adding the whites of two eggs beaten very light. Line 
the potato shells with mixture, leaving room in center 
of each shell for a dropped egg. Cover with the po- 
tato mixture and bake until brown. This is a dish 
with the proteid and carbonaceous food combined, and 
will serve nicely for tea or luncheon where no meat 
is served. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

For six eggs use two tablespoons of butter, six 
tablespoons of milk, and six pinches of salt. Break 
the eggs in a bowl, add the salt, but do not beat them. 
Put butter and milk into frying-pan, and as soon as the 
milk begins to bubble turn in the eggs, and with a 
spatula lift the eggs from bottom of pan as they set, 
allowing the uncooked egg to run to bottom of pan. As 
soon as all are set, but still creamy, turn onto hot 
platter and garnish with parsley. A border of chipped 
beef in creaip is nice served with these eggs. 



202 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Eggs Poached in Milk. 

Use half milk and half water. Butter the pan be- 
fore pouring in the milk and water, then proceed same 
as for any poached egg. The milk keeps the egg white 
and also adds to nutritive value of the egg. 

Sliirred Eggs. 

Butter an egg-shir rer and dust sides and bottom 
with cracker crumbs. Heat, break an egg in a cup, 
and slip into shirrer so as not to break yolk. Bake 
in moderate oven until white is firm. Sprinkle but- 
tered crumbs on top if liked, and allow them to brown. 
It is well to rest the shirrer on pie-tin, to be more 
easily removed from oven when done. 

Eggs and Ham on Toast. 

Make rounds of toast, and on each round place a 
thin piece of cold boiled ham, and on top of each put 
a dropped egg. Serve with a sauce made of one cup 
of tomatoes strained, one cup of cream, one table- 
spoon of butter and two tablespoons of flour. This 
is fine. 

Eggs (Waldorf Style). 

'Arrange poached eggs on round of buttered toast, 
with a sauted mushroom cap on top of each egg. Sur- 
round with brown mushroom sauce. — 3Iiss Farmer. 

Scrambled a la Creole. 

Make a cup and a half of tomatoes (without strain- 
ing) into a thick sauce, seasoned with butter, onion, 
sugar, salt and cayenne. Scramble six eggs after rule 
for scrambled eggs. Turn onto hot platter and pour 
round the sauce. Garnish with parsley. 



EGGS. 203 

Scrambled Eggs with Anchovy. 

Spread the thin toast with Anchovy paste, and ar- 
range on the hot platter and cover with scrambled 
eggs. 

Eggs a la Buckingham. 

Prepare six pieces of toast dipped in thick cream 
for an instant. Arrange on platter and cover with 
scrambled eggs, having the egg quite soft. Sprinkle 
over all one cup of grated cream cheese. Place in 
oven to melt the cheese, and finish cooking the eggs. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Put tablespoonful of butter into hot omelet-pan, 
and brown as many eggs as you wish, adding butter 
as you need it ; turn eggs while cooking. Use care not 
to have too much butter. 

Buttered Eggs w^ith Fried Tomatoes. 

Cut tomatoes in slices for frying, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and saute in butter. Place on hot dish 
with a well-shaped buttered egg on each slice of tomato. 

Eggs Shirred in Batter. 

Make batter with two tablespoons thick cream, two 
tablespoons stale bread crumbs, and pinch of salt. Mix 
cream, crumbs and salt. Put part of the mixture in 
bottom of buttered shirring-dish, slip in the egg. and 
put remaining mixture on top, using care in spreading 
it not to disturb yolk. 

Eggs au Gratin. 

Arrange poached eggs on a shallow buttered baking- 
dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and pour over all 



204 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

a Bechamel sauce. Cover with stale buttered crumbs, 
and sprinkle again with cheese. Brown in oven. 

Fried Eggs. 

Fried eggs are cooked without turning, either in 
hot lard, butter or fat from bacon or ham. In using 
the meat fats, in either case when the meat is cooked 
pour off the fat, rinse out the brown sediment from 
the bottom of pan, returning the fat, and breaking 
the egg in cup and slipping in as soon as the fat is hot. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Use four hard-boiled eggs, one cup thin white sauce, 
one cup minced cold meat, and one* cup buttered 
crumbs. Chop egg finely. Sprinkle bottom of buttered 
bake-dish with crumbs. Cover with half the eggs, the 
eggs with the sauce, sauce with the meat, and repeat. 
Cover top with the remaining crumbs, place in oven, 
and cook long enough to brown the crumbs. 

Curried Egg. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. i^ tablespoon minced onion. 

2 tablespoons butter. ^2 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. % teaspoon paprika. 

1 cup railli. 1 teaspoon curry powder. 

Mix curry, flour and seasonings. Cook onion a few 
■moments in butter, add flour and seasonings, then the 
milk slowly. Cook a few moments, and add the eggs 
cut into quarters; reheat, and serve with rice border. 

"Planked Eggs." 

One cup cold cooked corned beef or tongue, and 
equal quantity of fine bread crumbs. Moisten with 
-cream, and season with salt and pepper. Spread mix- 



EGGS. 205 

ture on plank and make nests, and border of duchess 
potatoes, using pastry-bag and rose tube. Put a poached 
egg in each nest, and put in oven to brown potatoes. 
Garnish with halves of broiled tomatoes and parsley. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Use six hard-boiled eggs cut in halves crossways. 
Remove yolks and mash to a paste. (This can be best 
and quickest done by putting them through a potato- 
ricer.) Season with one-fourth cup grated cheese, 
one teaspoon lemon juice, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
salt and cayenne. Add enough oil or melted butter 
to make the mixture shape easily. Make balls size 
of original yolks and refill each white. These can be 
served arranged on serVing-dish with a thin white 
sauce poured round and reheated, or served cold on 
a bed of parsley or watercress, or wrapped in paraf- 
fin paper and used for lunch or picnics. 

Eggs in Ramequins. 

5 hard-boiled eggs. "•/•-• cup milk. 

iy2 tablespoons butter. % cup grated cheese. 

1^2 tablespoons flour. Salt and cayenne. 

^2 cup white stock. 1 cup buttered crumbs. 

Chop eggs finely and mix with salt and cayenne. 
Make a sauce with butter, flour, stock and milk. Add 
chopped eggs. Fill buttered ramequin dishes, sprinkle 
with cheese and buttered crumbs. Cook in moderate 
oven until crumbs are browned. 

Eggs with Chicken. 

Cut hard-boiled eggs lengthwise. Remove yolks, 
and lay whites aside in pairs. ]\Iash yolks to a smooth 
paste, and add equal amount of the minced chicken. 



206 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Moisten all with a Mayonnaise dressing. Fill whites, 
using one piece for a cover; press together closely. Use 
as a salad. 

Egg Souffle. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons flour. 5 eggs. 

1 cup cream. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash cayenne or i/4 teaspoon paprika. 

Cream butter, add flour, and pour on gradually 
scalded milk and cream. Cook in double boiler five 
minutes, and add yolks of eggs beaten until thick and 
light in color. Remove from fire, add seasonings, and 
fold in the whites that have been beaten stiff and dry. 
Turn into individual moulds, set in pan of hot water, 
and bake in slow oven until firm. Serve with white 
sauce highly seasoned with paprika and onion juice. 

OMELETS. 

To be successful with egg omelets one wants to have 
an omelet-pan that is used for omelets only. Aluminum 
is the best for the purpose, but you want the heavy 
pan, so as to cook the omelet slowly and not burn. 

Plain Omelet. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoons water. 
3 pinches salt. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Separate eggs, putting yolks in bowl and whites 
on platter. Add one pinch of the salt to the whites 
and two to the yolks. (A pinch of salt is what you 
take up between the thumb and forefinger.) Beat 
whites until stiff and dry, and yolks until lemon color. 
Add water to yolks, and beat it well in. Add whites, 
cutting and folding until well mixed with yolks. Have 



EGGS. 207 

omelet-pan hot and butter well sides and bottom. Turn 
in the mixture and spread evenl}^, and place on range 
where it will cook slowly. Shake and turn the pan 
that the omelet may brown evenly. When w^ell puffed 
and browned on bottom, you can slip in the oven to 
cook the top. Fold and turn on a hot platter, and 
serve Avith broiled ham or bacon for a garnish, or with 
any kind of sauce you may think best. In serving 
with the bacon or ham, they are placed round the front 
of the omelet, and bunch of parsley or cress at back 
for a garnish. 

Omelet a la Creole. 

Make a plain omelet and fold in tomatoes cut into 
cubes, seasoned and drained until they are quite dry, 
using a cupful to an omelet, and garnish with sauted 
slices of tomato, with a little sugar sprinkled on them. 

Omelet a la Spanish. 

Prepare a plain omelet and serve with Spanish 
sauce poured around it after it is folded and turned 
onto hot platter 

Spanish Sauce. 

Cook two tablespoons of butter, one onion and one 
sweet Spanish pepper cut fine until onion is a golden 
brown, then add two tablespoons of flour, one cup of 
unstrained tomatoes, and one-half cup of mushrooms 
cut fine. Season with salt, pepper, a little sugar and 
cayenne, and one tablespoon of capers. Cook until 
quite thick. The best way is to prepare the sauce 
before the omelet in order to serve the omelet quickly. 
"Remember the guest must always wait on the omelet, 
omelet never on the guest." 



208 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Prepare a plain omelet, and before folding sprinkle 
with one cup of grated cream or Parmesan cheese. 
Fold and serve quickly. 

Omelet with Meats or Vegetables. 

Prepare and cook plain omelet, and use any cold 
meat or fowl you may have on hand, or you can use 
pieces of asparagus, cauliflower, or cup of peas, that 
are cooked and left over. Also flaked fish mixed with 
a little cream and seasoned nicely, only using very 
thick cream or a little white sauce. 

Nut Omelet, Caramel Sauce. 

3 eggs, iDeaten separately. Pinch of salt 

3 tablespoons caramel. Vanilla to flavor. 

Prepare same as plain omelet, using the caramel 
instead of the water to dilute the eggs. Put butter 
size of a walnut into hot omelet-pan, and cover bottom 
of pan with blanched and shredded almonds. Turn in 
mixture, cook, turn and fold. Serve with caramel sauce. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Pour cup of sugar into frying-pan and place on 
hot part of range. Stir and cook until melted to a 
light brown syrup. Add quickly three-fourths of a 
cup of hot water, and simmer for eight or ten minutes. 

Omelet Confection. 

Prepare same as plain omelet, only using a pinch 
of salt, and two tablespoons of powdered sugar. Spread 
with jelly made soft by warming just before you fold. 
After it is turned on the omelet plate, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour on one-fourth cup of rum, 
light, and send to table as it burns. 



PASTRY. 20ft' 



CHAPTER XXI. 
;PASTRY. 

IN serving pastry at our table great care wants to 
be taken in the preparation of it that it be light, 
flaky and tender. 

To the pastry belongs the puff paste and the plain 
paste. The making of puff paste is looked upon aa 
a great task, and is rarely attempted by the amateur, 
but when made at home of the best creamery butter 
there is no doubt about the quality and digestibility 
of the paste, and as soon as one gets the method in 
hand she no longer looks upon it as such a great task. 
To be successful, one has to be a rapid worker with 
a light touch. It must be made in a cold room. 

For making pastry, one wants pastry tiour and 
well-chilled shortening. If butter is used, it wants 
to be the best; if lard, only the leaf, kettle-rendered 
will give good results. The lightness depends upon 
the amount of cold air folded in as you roll and fold. 
This air coming in contact with the hot air of the 
oven expands and lightens the paste. While the flaki- 
ness depends upon the kind and amount of shortening 
you use, butter gives the best flavor, but the lard 
makes the tenderest crust, at much less expense. For 
puff' paste we only use butter, and wash it to free it 
of salt and buttermilk. Butter, when properly pre- 
pared, is of a waxy consistency, and rolls easily into 
layers after it is folded into the dough. 



210 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Puff Paste. 

1 pound flour. 1 pound butter. 

Pinch of salt. Ice-water. 

Wash butter and work it under the water in a soft 
linen napkin, changing the water once. Lift it out 
and pat until all the water has gone. Reserve two 
tablespoons and shape the other into an oblong piece 
and place on the block of ice. Chop the two table- 
spoons into the flour or rub in with the tips of fingers. 
Moisten to a dough soft enough to roll easily. Knead 
a few moments to make it elastic so it rolls and holds 
the butter in its fold. A good pastry-maker will not 
see the butter after she encloses it in the dough. Pat 
and roll the dough on the board to one-fourth of an 
inch in thickness; keep it a little wider than long, and 
the corners square. Place butter in center of square 
of dough, fold the sides each to center, and press 
them well together. Fold one end over and one end 
under the enclosed butter. Press edges firmly together 
to enclose as much air as possible. Turn half-way 
round cover, and let it stand for five minutes. Pat 
and roll again to one-fourth inch in thickness, keeping 
it longer than wide, and lifting often to be sure it is 
not sticking, each time dredging the board with flour. 
Fold from open end toward the center, making three 
layers. Rest again for five minutes. Continue this 
rolling and folding for four times, then fold from 
each end to center, making four folds. Press edges 
well together, and chill on tin placed between pans of 
crushed ice. "When thoroughly chilled it is ready to 
be shaped into patty shell. Yol-au-vents or fancy 
shape to garnish with. It should be kept wrapped in 
paraffin paper and put in tin pail. Cover closely and 



PASTRY. 211 

place in ice-box, using care not to spoil the layers you 
have rolled in, by doubling them. Mrs. Ewing is 
the best puff-paste maker ever on the American stage. 

To Bake Puff Paste. 

Puff' paste requires great care in the baking. The 
oven must be hot, and the paste placed on a tin sheet 
covered with brown paper, and put in oven where it 
will get the most heat on the bottom to make it rise. 
When it has risen to its full height, add more fire and 
brown on top, being careful not to burn the bottom. 
It must have a hot oven if you want it to puff. In a 
hot oven it puff's and is flaky; in too cold an oven it 
spreads and is greasy. The temperature for baking 
patty shell wants to be about same as for baking- 
powder biscuits. Yol-au-vents require hot oven at 
first, then reduce to keep top from burning. The gas 
stove is the thing for this kind of cooking, for the 
reason that we can control the heat perfectly. 

Patty Shells. 

Roll paste to one-fourth inch thick, and shape with 
patty cutter, first dipping it in flour. Then with a 
small cutter remove a round from center of one-half 
the round. Brush the whole round with ice-water 
round the edges, and press the piece with the center 
removed on top. Press lightly. Place on a towel and 
chill between pans of crushed ice, until paste is very 
cold and stiff. Cover tin or iron sheet with brown 
paper, and place the patty shell on and bake in hot 
oven for twentj^-five minutes. They should rise to their 
full height and begin to brown in fifteen minutes. The 
small rounds cut from centers of the ring can be baked 



212 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

and vised for patty cover. Should there be any soft 
dough in center of shells, lift it out carefully with 
pointed knife. 

Vol-au-vents. 

Roll puff paste to one-third of an inch thick, Mark 
an oval on the paste with cutter or mould for the pur- 
pose. Cut out with a sharp knife first dipped in flour. 
Brush near the edge with cold water, and put on a 
rim three-fourths of an inch wide. Press lightly, chill 
and bake in hot oven. The piece cut from center of 
the top should be rolled to one-fourth inch, shaped, 
baked and used for cover for vol-au-vent. To bake, 
place on sheet with paper beneath, and bake for three- 
quarters of an hour. The cover will be done first, and 
must be removed as soon as it is a good brown. 

Flaky Paste. 

2 cups flour. 14 cup each lard and 

1^ teaspoon salt. butter. 

Ice-water. 

Wash butter in napkin. Pat all water and butter- 
milk out by patting between the hands. Add salt to 
flour, and chop in lard with knife or one-bladed hash 
chopper. "When it is chopped enough it will look like 
coarse cornmeal, then add water little at a time so as 
not to get it too soft. Toss on floured board, pat and 
roll to oblong shape, and fold in butter same as for 
puff paste. Fold to make the three layers turn half 
round, pat and roll, repeat for three or four times, 
and it is ready for use. 

Plain Paste. 

2 cups flour. 74 cup lard. 

1/. teaspoon salt. Cold water. 



PASTRY. 213 

Chop in the lard, add water to make a paste that 
will roll easily, toss on floured board, pat and shape, 
and it is ready for use. It is always an improvement 
to paste to fold a few times and rest the paste, and cut 
with knife and keep paste in layers; it will be more 
flaky and light. Cut pieces from end, and shape with 
rolling-pin into pieces large enough to cover the pie-tin 
easily, as you should not stretch pie paste, but instead 
lift and let all air from under and fill into the pan 
as much as it will hold before trimming off the edges. 
Add the filling. Wet the edges, put on top, and press 
together with the fingers or a pastry- j agger made for 
the purpose. Some chefs use the best beef suet, ren- 
dered and mixed with lard for shortening. 

Entire Wheat Paste for Salads. 

1 cup of entire wheat flour. i^ cup butter. 

% cup white pastry flour. % cup lard. 

1 teaspoon salt. Cold water. 

Add salt to flour, and mix all well together. Chop 
in the lard and butter. Water to make a paste. Roll 
to one-fourth inch thick, cut into finger-shaped pieces, 
and brush with egg white and little water. Sprinkle 
with chopped nuts and serve with salad. 



214 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXII. 
PIES. 

PASTE for pies should be rolled to one-fourth of 
an inch thick, always rolling the piece larger than 
the pan to allow for the shrinking in the baking. In 
dividing the paste allow more for the upper than the 
under crust. Perforate the upper crust that the steam 
may escape. The method is left to the taste of the 
cook. There is a funnel which we find on the market 
supposed to act as a flue to carry off the steam from 
the fruit pie that is so hard to keep from cooking over 
in the oven. Flat rims should be cut in strips from 
one-half to three-fourths of an inch wide, and the under 
crust be brushed with cold water before placing the 
rim on, and flute the rim with pastry- j agger or with 
the fingers. The pastry- j agger gives a very nice scal- 
loped edge to the paste. When juicy fruits are used 
to fill the pie-tins it is hard to brown the under crust, 
and many remedies have been resorted to, such as 
brushing the inside of the crust with w^hite of egg, etc., 
but the best way out of the difficulty is the baking of 
an under crust first, then filling with cooked and sweet- 
ened fruit. The best methods of cooking the under 
crust is to invert a pie-tin cover outside with the crust 
and bake; return to inside of the pie-tin, fill and place 
on top crust, and cook until top is nice and brown, or 
the fruit may be cooked and sweetened, and bake a top 
crust by cutting a piece of the paste a trifle larger 
than the tin and pricking with a fork. Place in oven 



PIES. 215 

and bake to nice brown. Place the bottom crust on 
plate, fill and put on top crust. I simply suggest this 
as one of the methods they gave us in the school, but 
I myself prefer to have the fruit put in the pan un- 
cooked, and cook and bake crust at same time. And 
I find, by having the heat strong to begin with to puff 
the paste, and lower as soon as the paste is well puffed 
before it begins to brown, that I can cook both paste 
and fruit together and have a better pie. 

For baking pies I find there is nothing better than 
the aluminum pans. They bake better and burn less. 
The perforated pan will bake under crust better, and 
for this reason they are best, as pastry, to be healthy, 
wants to be well baked. In making a fruit pie, when 
the fruit is highly flavored use no additional flavor, 
but let each fruit give to the pie its own distinctive 
flavor. 

Apple Pie. 

3 good-sized tart apples. Pinch of salt. 

% cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour or % 

1 tablespoon butter. tablespoon cornstarch. 

Pare, core and cut the apples into very thin slices 
by first cutting them into quarters, then into slices 
as thin as possible. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt, 
and stir into the sliced apples. Line pie-tin, put 
apples in and dot over with the butter, put on top 
crust, and bake as I have directed above. Should you 
use an apple that is lacking in flavor, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, grated rind and juice of lemon, or a little vanilla, 
can be used, but bear in mind nutmeg is a poison to 
some people, and is also very poignant, and a little will 
flavor a pie. One-fourth of a teaspoon will be enough. 



216 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Apple Custard. 

Pare, core, cook and strain tart apples, having one 
and one-half cups of the strained apples. Add one- 
third cup sugar, yolks three eggs, and two tablespoons 
cream. Fill pie-tin with plain paste, add custard, 
place rim round edge one-half inch wide, and bake untij 
a nice brown. With whites beaten until stiff and 
dry, using two tablespoons powdered sugar, make '-i 
meringue. Spread on pie, and place in slow oven 
until well puffed and a light brown. 

Raisin Pie. 

% box cleaned raisins. 1 large, tart apple, chopped fine. 
v4 cup sugar. Vs tablespoon salt. 

1 tablespoon sherry or Madeira wine. 

Line pan with good plain paste. Stew raisins for 
a few moments until soft. Remove from fire; add 
apples, sugar, salt, and wine to fill pie-tin ; put on 
top crust and bake. This pie can be made with strips 
on top instead of top crust. It is fine. 

Blueberry Pie. 

21^ cups blueberries. i,^ cup sugar. 

1/^ tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Mix sugar, flour and salt, and add all to the ber- 
ries. Stir until well mixed. Line pan, turn in fruit, 
put on the top and bake. A fruit pie will take thirty 
minutes to cook fruit and brown crust. 

Cranberry Pie. 

1^2 cups cranberries. 1^/4 cups sugar. 

2 tablespoons cleaned H teaspoon salt, 

raisins. 1 tablespoon flour. 



PIES. 217 

Mix ingredients. Line and fill pie-tin, and bake, 
with strips of paste forming diamond instead of top 
crust. 

Currant Pie. 

1 cup currants. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup sugar. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons water. 

Mix flour and sugar, the yolks of eggs dilated with 
the water and slightly beaten. Stem, wash and drain 
the currants before measuring. Add to the eggs, etc., 
fill pie-tin, and bake with one crust in slow oven. 

Custard Pie. 

iy2 cups milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. 

Beat eggs slightly; add sugar, milk and salt, and 
strain. Line pie-tin with good plain paste, put on 
one-half-inch rim, and flute. Pour in custard, flavor- 
ing with whatever you like — ^grated orange, lenjon^ 
vanilla or nutmeg. Bake in quick oven to puff rim, 
and reduce heat to set the custard. Remove from 
fire as. soon as the custard is firm, or eggs and milk 
w^ill separate. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

1^2 cups rhubarb, sliced 2 tablespoons flour. 

thin. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 full cup sugar. 1 egg. 

Wash and wipe rhubarb, but do not remove the 

skin unless very tough. Cut into thin slices wnth the 

scissors. If it is the pink or strawberry variety, the 

skin will add a very nice color to the pie. IMix sugar, 

flour, salt ^nd egg slightly beaten, then add rhubarb. 



218 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Stir all well together and turn into pie-tin lined with 
plain paste. Put on the top and bake; it will take 
half an hour. 

Prune Pie. 

14 pound prunes. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon butter. Juice half lemon. 

Yj. cup sugar. 

Wash prunes in several waters, and cover with 
clear, clean water. Soak overnight. Cook in same 
water in which they were soaked until tender. Re- 
move the stones, chop fine, add the juice in which they 
Avere cooked, with the lemon juice and sugar. Add to 
a pie-tin lined and place on the top. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

Lemon Pie. 

Rind and juice i lemon. 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon butter. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

% cup boiling water. 

Mix sugar, flour and cornstarch, add boiling water. 
Cook until thick, and add yolks, butter and grated 
rind and juice of the lemon. Line pie-tin same as for 
custard pie: turn in the filling. Bake until crust is 
well browned and filling set. Cool slightly; cover 
with meringue. Place in moderate oven to brown 
meringue. 

Cream Pie I. 

1% cups. milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

3 tablespoons sugar. V^ teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Mix flour, cornstarch and sugar ; add to the slightly 
beaten yolks of eggs, and salt. Pour on the milk 



PIES. 219 

heated to the scald; return all to double boiler, and 
■cook for a few moments (about five minutes). Have 
crust baked, fill with the cream, cover with meringue 
made w^ith whites of eggs and three tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, or cover wath sweetened, flavored and 
whipped cream. 

Cream Pie II. 

Bake three crusts, and put the cream filling between 
and whipped cream on top. It will take one cup of 
whipped and flavored cream for the top. This pie must 
not be filled until just as you send it to the table, as 
the crusts become soft very quickly after they are 
filled. 

Squash Pie. 

1 cup steamed and strained ly^ teaspoons each, cin- 

squash. namon and ginger. 

\i> cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 cup milk. Pinch salt. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

1 cup strained pumpkin. i^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

% cup sugar. y^ teaspoon ginger. 

iy2 cups milk. 2 eggs. 

% cup cream. i/o teaspoon salt. 

Mix sugar, spices and salt. Add pumpkin, eggs 
beaten, milk and cream. Prepare and bake same as 
custard pie. 

Peach Pie I. 

Prepare peaches same as for apple pie, using three- 
fourths cup sugar to a pie. Cover and bake half an 
hour. 



220 



SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Peach Pie 11. 

Peel and cut freestone peaches in halves. Line pie- 
plate and place the halves in with cups turned up. 
Sprinkle with three-fourths cup sugar and a small 
piece of butter about as large as a pea in each half. 
Put rim on pie and bake without cover. Serve spread 
with whipped cream or ice-cream. 

Cherry Pie. 

11/^ cups seeded cherries. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Use uncooked cherries if in cherry season; if not, 
cherries that are canned without sugar. Use two crusts. 
Bake half an hour in moderate oven. 



Mincemeat, 



4 cups minced meat. 

9 cups apples. 

1% cups suet, very fine. 

4 cups white sugar. 

3 pints sweet cider. 

1^ cup whisky. 

% cup sherry wine. 

Juice 3 lemons. 

Juice 3 oranges. 

1 cup preserved cherries. 



1 teaspoon white pepper. 
% teaspoon cloves. 
4 teaspoons cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
% nutmeg. 
Vq pound citron. 
3 pounds raisins. 
IY2 pounds currants. 
1 cup preserved Damson 
plums. 



1 cup almonds. 

Cook the raisins, currants, citron, apples, suet and 
sugar together slowly for one and one-half hours, then 
add almonds, spices, fruit juice, cider, whisky and 
wine. Stir thoroughly, add meat, and stir again until 
all are blended, adding the preserves with the fruit 
juice. 



PIES. 221 

Mince Pie. 

Mince pies are always baked with two crusts, and 
for special occasions they are much more delicious if 
the top crust is made of puff paste. They are especi- 
ally fine served with vanilla ice-cream spread on top. 

Fresh tongue makes fine mincemeat. Mincemeat 
packed in jars will often need more cider added when 
you bake. Use boiled cider. 



222 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

PASTRY DESSERTS. 

"Though we eat little flesh and drink no wine, let's be 
merry. We'll have tea and toast, custard for supper, and 
endless hosts of syllabubs and jellies and mince pies, and 
other such ladylike luxuries." — Shelley. 

Cheese Cakes. 

1 cup sweet milk. Grated rind and juice 

1 cup sour milk. 1 lemon. 

Yolks 4 eggs. ^4 cup blanched and 

1 cup sugar. chopped almonds. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald in double boiler the sweet and sour milk. 
Strain through cheesecloth. To curd, add yolks of 
eggs slightly beaten, the sugar, lemon and salt. Line 
small patty tin with good paste. Fill with the mix- 
ture and sprinkle with chopped almonds. Bake until 
the mixture is firm to the touch. 

Banbury Tarts. 

1 cup sugar. 1 egg. 

li/o cups raisins. 1 butter cracker. 

Juice and rind of 1 orange. 

Chop raisins, stir egg and sugar together, add rolled 
cracker, then orange juice and rind. Mix well with 
raisins. Roll pastry very thin. Cut into strips three 
and one-half inches long and three inches wide. Put 
into each piece two teaspoonfuls of the mixture. 
Moisten edges with cold water or lemon juice, and 



PASTRY DESSERTS. 223 

fold over and press edges together with pastry j agger 
or fork. Bake twenty minutes in slow oven. 

Puff Paste Cheese Straws. 

Roll puff paste one-fourth inch thick, and sprinkle 
with grated cheese seasoned with salt and a little 
sprinkle of cayenne. Fold and press edges together, 
and pat and roll. Sprinkle again, pat and roll. Cut 
into strips five inches long and one-half inch wide. 
Bake until a nice brown. Parmesan cheese is the best 
for cheese stick, or you can use half Parmesan and 
half cream, or Edam, or pineapple. Cheese straws can 
be made from pieces of plain paste in the same way, 
but are not so good as the puff paste. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

Vse puff or plain paste. Roll to one-fourth inch in 
thickness, cut into strips about size of lady-fingers, and 
bake on buttered tin sheet in hot oven. When nearly 
done remove and slightly cool, and brush over with 
whites of eggs beaten, and sprinkle with shredded 
cocoanut. Return to oven and finish baking. 

Meringues with Puff Paste. 

Roll puff paste quite thin, and shape either round 
or in lengths eight inches long and five inches wide. 
Place on a sheet and moisten the edges with cold water, 
and put on half-inch rim. Prick several times with 
fork, and bake a nice brown in hot oven. Remove, 
cool and spread with preserves or jam. Cover with 
meringue, sprinkle with blanched and shredded almond, 
and shake over all powdered sugar. Brown in slow 
oven. 



224 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Tarts. 



Koll puff paste quite thin, and cut into rounds 
with fluted cutter, and with a smaller fluted cutter 
remove centers from half the fl,rst rounds. Brush 
edges of whole round and place on the rings, pressing 
lightly. Chill until very stiff and cold, and place in 
hot oven and bake for fifteen minutes. Cool and fill 
with jam or jelly, or cooked raisins. These are very 
nice. 

Peach Tarts with Brandy. 

Roll plain paste, and cut into rounds. Fit on rim 
one-half inch wide, and bake in hot oven. Place in 
center of each one-half of stewed and sweetened peach 
drained and cup turned up, and sprinkled with pow- 
dered sugar and one tablespoon brandj^ in each peach 
cup; light and send to table. This can be made from 
canned peaches, but flavor is better when fresh ones are 
used. 

Meringues. 

Eggs for meringues should be thoroughly chilled, 
and beaten with a wire egg-beater until stiff and dry. 
Sweetened and flavored and piled on pies, puddings, 
or any dessert you wish to use them on, they can be 
smooth and evenly spread, or the pastry bag and tube 
can be used. In any case a meringue wants to bake 
in slow oven that it may rise to its full height and 
wall cells in eggs harden slowly to keep their shape. 
If taken from the oven too soon, the eggs will liquify 
and meringue drop, and if cooked too long, it will 
become tough. 



PASTRY DESSERTS. 225 

Meringue I. 

Whites 2 eggs. Vs teaspoon cream of tartar, or 

2 tablespoons powdered % teaspoon lemon juice, 

sugar. 1/2 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat whites stiff, add sugar gradually and continue 
beating, then add liavoring. If cream of tartar is used, 
add it to the eggs when they begin to foam. 

Meringue II. 

Whites 4 eggs. % cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Put Avhites of eggs and sugar in bowl, and beat 
mixture until stiff enough to hold its shape. Add lemon 
juice a drop at a time, and continue beating. It wdli 
occupy half an hour to beat it sufficiently stiff to hold 
its shape, but is a delicious meringue when well made 
and baked. — Miss Fanner. 

Meringue Kisses. 

Whites 4 eggs. 1^4 cups powdered sugar. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat w^hites until stiff, add gradually two-thirds 
of the sugar, and continue the beating until mixture 
will hold its shape. Add the remaining sugar and fold 
in lightly. Lastly, add the flavoring. Vanilla s-ugar 
is best to flavor with if you have it, as it will not 
evaporate with the heat of the oven. Shape wath 
pastry bag or spoon on wet board covered wath writing- 
paper. Cook thirty minutes in very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper with broad knife a-nd put together in 
pail's, or, if intended to fill wdth whipped cream or 
ice-cream, remove the soft part with spoon and return 
to oven to dry. 



226 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Nut Meringue. 



Prepare same as meringue kisses. Add chopped 
nut meat — English walnuts, almonds or hickory-nuts. 
Shape by dropping from tip of spoon or with pastry- 
bag and tube. Sprinkle with nut meat and bake as 
directed above. 

Meringues with Ice=cream. 

Fill meringue kisses with ice-cream, and press two 
together and serve, or use one kiss filled with cream, 
and garnish with whipped cream beaten very stiff, 
flavored and forced through a pastry-bag and tube. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 227 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
PUDDING SAUCES. 

Lemon Sauce I. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 
Ys cup water. Juice Y2 lemon. 

Put sugar in saucepan, add water, and stir well. 
Put on fire and boil for six minutes; remove, add but- 
ter and lemon juice. 

Lemon Liquid Sauce IL 

% cup sugar. % cup butter. 

IV2 cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. Pinch salt. 

Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt. Add the water 
gradually, stirring all the while. Boil five minutes, 
then add lemon juice and butter. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

Prepare same as Lemon Sauce II., flavoring with one 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream Sauce. 

1 cup thick cream. \2 cup powdered sugar. 

Yo cup thin cream. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix and beat until stiff, and flavor. 

Orange Sauce. 

Whites 3 eggs. Juice and grated rind 1 orange. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Juice 1 lemon. 

Beat whites of eggs (just as you are ready to use 
the sauce) until very stiff, add the sugar slowly, and 



'228 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

continue the beating for a few moments. Flavor with 
juice and rind of orange and lemon. 

Foamy Sauce- 

1 cup powdered sugar. 1 egg. 

1^ cup butter. 14 cup wine. 

A few grains salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar, egg well beaten, and lastly 
the wine slowly, continuing the beating. Heat over 
hot water, beating all the while. 

Strawberry Sauce. 

y.2 cup butter. 1 cup pow-^dered sugar. 

1/2 cup strawberries. White 1 egg. 

Cream butter, add sugar little at a time and the 
berries a few at a time, and beat so as to crush the 
berries well, then the white of the q%^ beaten until stiff. 

Red Raspberry Sauce. 

Prepare same as strawberry, using raspberries in- 
stead of strawberries. 

Wine Sauce. 

^'2 cup butter. 14 cup sherry wine. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Grated rind of orange. 

Cream butter, add sugar and wine slowly, beat until 
very light, pile on serving-dish, and sprinkle with the 
grated orange. 

Hard Sauce. 

V2 cup butter. 1 tablespoon lemon juice, with a 

1 cup powdered sugar. little of the grated rind or any 
fruit juice strained. 

Cream butter, add the sugar and the fruit juice. 
Beat until very light, and pile on dish and place in 
ice-box to chill. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 229 

Brandy Sauce. 

% cup butter. 2 eggs. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

14 cup brandy. 1 cup boiling water. 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Cream butter, add sugar 
gradually, then the well-beaten yolks of eggs and the 
water. Cook until it thickens. Remove from fire and 
add the whites beaten until stiff, then the brandy. 
Keep hot, but do not boil any after the whites are 
added. 

Caramel Sauce. 

1 cup sugar. % cup boiling water. 

Put sugar in skillet and melt and stir until a golden 
brown, but not a moment longer. Add the water, and 
cook until a thick syrup; it will only take a few mo- 
ments. 



230 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
HOT PUDDINGS. 

Indian Pudding. 

5 cups hot milk. % f^^p Orleans or Porto 

1/2 cup Indian meal. Rico molasses. 

1 teaspoon salt. - 1 teaspoon ginger. 

Pour the hot milk slowly on the meal, cook in 
double boiler twenty-five minutes, and add molasses, 
salt and ginger. Pour into buttered pudding-dish, and 
bake for two hours in slow oven. Care has to be taken 
to bake slowly. Serve with cream. 

Rice Pudding. 

1 quart milk. ^L' teaspoon salt. 

1^ cup rice. V2 cup sugar. 

Grated rind of ^2 lemon. 

Wash rice in three waters. Mix all the ingredients 
and pour into buttered pudding-dish. Bake in very 
slow oven for three hours. Stir three or four times 
during the first hour of baking to keep the rice from 
settling to the bottom of dish. 

Apple Tapioca. 

1 cup pearl tapioca. 4 tart apples. 

2^2 cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Y2 cup sugar. Cold water and salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water to cover for two hours. 
Drain, add the boiling water, and cook in double boiler 
until tapioca is transparent. Pare and core apples. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 231 

and cut into quarters, then into thin slices. Arrange 
in buttered pudding'-dish. Sprinkle over the sugar and 
dot with butter; pour over all the transparent tapioca. 
Bake for one and one-half hours in slow oven. Serve 
with powdered sugar and cream. If the apples are 
lacking in tlavor, a little grated lemon peel, cinnamon, 
or any flavor you like, can be used. 

Peach Tapioca. 

Use fresh peaches. Proceed samo as for apple 
tapioca. Serve with cream. 

Tapioca Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk. i/. cup sugar. 

14 cup pearl tapioca. 1 teaspoon salt. 

4 eggs. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cold water. 

Soak tapioca in cold water to cover for one and one- 
half hours. Drain, add to milk in double boiler, and 
cook thirty minutes. Beat eggs slightly, and add sugar 
and salt. Pour on some of the hot milk and stir, turn 
all into the double boiler, and cook until the mixture 
coats the spoon. Remove quickly from fire and turn 
out in bowl to cool. When ready to serve add vanilla. 

Corn Pudding. 

2 cups powdered popcorn. y_> cup brown sugar. 

3 cups milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 
3 eggs, slightly beaten. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Scald milk, pour over corn, and let stand one hour. 

Add remaining ingredients. Turn into buttered dish 

and bake in slow oven until firm. Serve with cream 
or maple syrup. — Miss Farmer. 



232 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Scalloped Apples. 

Vs cup butter. Grated rind and juice 

1 quart sliced apples. ^2 lemon. 

Ys cup sugar. 1 loaf stale bread. 

Cut loaf in half lengthwise, remove all the center, 
and rub until crumbs are fine. Melt butter, add crumbs, 
and stir with fork. Spread the bottom of buttered dish 
w^th the crumbs, and pour in half the apples that have 
been pared and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with 
half the sugar and the lemon juice and rind. Repeat, 
using the remainder of the crumbs on top. Bake in 
slow oven for forty-five minutes, with dish covered for 
the first half-hour. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Cottage Pudding. 

% cup butter. V2 cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups flour. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and eggs well 
beaten without separating flour and baking-powder 
alternately with the cup of milk. Turn in buttered 
cake-pan, and bake for half-hour. Serve with vanilla 
sauce. 

Orange Puffs. 

Make same as cottage pudding, and bake in muffin- 
tins. Serve with orange hard sauce. 

Custard Souffle. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 cup scalded milk. 
34 cup flour. 4 eggs. 

Ys cup sugar. 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk. 
"When thickened, pour on yolks of egg beaten until 



HOT PUDDINGS. 233? 

thick and light in color, mixed with the sugar. Cool, 
and fold in the whites beaten stiff and dry. Turn 
into buttered pudding-dish and bake in slow oven for 
thirty-five minutes. Serve at once with foamy sauce. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

2 tablespoons butter. 2 squares Baker's chocolate. 

2 tablespoons flour. 3 tablespoons hot water. 

Vs tablespoon sugar. 3 eggs. 

% cup milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on gradually the- 
hot milk. When the mixture reaches the boiling-point, 
draw to cooler part of the range. Melt chocolate over 
hot water, add sugar and water, and stir until smooth. 
Combine the mixture and add yolks beaten very light. 
Cool, fold in whites beaten stiff and dry, and flavor 
with the vanilla. Turn into well-buttered baking-dish, 
and bake in moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

Raisin Roly-poly. 

2 cups flour. 4 level teaspoons baking- 

1 tablespoon butter. powder, or 2 rounded. 

1 tablespoon lard. 2 cups raisins, cleaned and 

1/^ teaspoon salt. seeded. 

Milk to make a soft dough. 

Mix dry ingredients, chop in lard and butter, and 
add milk gradually, mixing with knife. Toss on well- 
floured board; knead slightly, just enough to make the 
dough adhere. Divide into halves and roll one-third 
of an inch thick. Spread with the raisins that have 
been boiled for ten minutes to plump them; if there 
is any juice on them, drain it off, and roll up same 
as jelly roll. Place in buttered pan, and pour over 
one and one.-half cups of cold water with two table- 



234 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

spoons sugar stirred in it. Put in hot oven, and bake 
until it begins to brown, then lower the heat and cook 
slowly. It will require forty-five minutes in all. This 
roll can be made of apples, or any of the dried fruits, 
or with jam spread on. Fruits' want to be always 
cooked and sweetened, except apples, and they can 
be chopped rather fine and sweetened. With the raisins 
I would serve orange hard sauce. 

Rhubarb Dumplings. 

2 cups flour. 1 tablespoon butter. 

11^ cups rhubarb, cut fine. 1 tablespoon lard. 
4 teaspoons baking-powder. Milk to make a soft dough. 
% teaspoon salt. 1 cup sugar. 

Mix dry ingredients; chop in lard and butter. Add 
milk gradually, making a very soft dough. Knead 
slightly and divide in eight equal parts, and roll and 
pat into rounds. Sprinkle the rhubarb with the cup 
of sugar, and add one tablespoonful to each round of 
dough; draw dough up round the fruit and pinch well 
to keep in fruit and juice. Place in well-buttered pan 
or pudding-dish, with smooth side up, adding one and 
one-half cups of water with two tablespoons of sugar 
dissolved in it. Place in hot oven and bake for forty- 
five minutes. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding. 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 

' 4 teaspoons baking-powder. 1 cup blueberries. 
Vo teaspoon salt. Milk to make a soft dough. 

Mix dry ingredients, chop in butter, and add milk 
gradually with the blueberries that have been rolled 
in flour to keep them from settling to bottom. Turn 
into well-buttered mould, and steam for one and one- 
half hours. Serve with creamy sauce. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 235. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

14 cup butter. 21(5 cups flour. 

% cup sugar. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

2 eggs. 3 squares Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup milk. 1^ teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well 
beaten. Mix baking-powder with flour and salt, and 
add alternately with milk to butter, sugar and eggs; 
then add melted chocolate. Turn all into well-buttered 
mould, and steam for two hours. Serve with whipped 
cream sauce. 

Whipped Cream Sauce. 

One cup thick cream whipped until stiff, sweetened 
with one-third cup of powdered sugar; add one tea- 
spoon of vanilla. 

Snowballs. 

i/G cup butter. 214 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1/2 cup milk. Whites 4 eggs. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, milk and flour 
mixed with baking-powder. Add Avhites beaten stiff. 
Turn into small buttered cups, and cover top of each 
cup with paraffin paper to keep steam from condensing 
in water on the tops of the balls. Place in steamer 
over boiling water and cook for forty minutes. Serve 
with whipped cream, flavored with crushed straw- 
berries or with strawberry sauce. 

Graham Pudding. 

V± cup butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup Graham flour. V2 teaspoon soda. 
I/O cup molasses. i/^ cup white flour. 

^2 cup milk. 1 cup cleaned and seeded 

2 eggs. raisins, cut into piecesv 



236 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Melt butter, add molasses, milk and eggs well beaten 
and dry ing-redients mixed well together with the 
raisins. Turn into buttered mould. Cover close and 
steam two and one-half hours. Serve with wine sauce. 
Figs or dates cut fine can be used instead of the raisins. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 cup suet, cut fine. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

•3 cups Hour. Vs teaspoon cloves. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1 nutmeg, grated. 

1 cup raisins, cut fine. 

Mix spices, salt, raisins and soda with the flour. 
Add molasses and milk to suet; combine mixture, and 
turn all into buttered mould. Cover closely and steam 
three and one-half hours. Serve with hard or foamy 
sauce, flavored with sherry wine. 

Fig Pudding. 

1/3 cup suet, cut fine. 2Y2 cups stale bread crumbs, 

14 pound figs, chopped. V^ cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. 1 cup chopped nuts. 

Chop suet fine, and remove all membrane and 
strings; add figs to suet. Soak bread crumbs in milk, 
add eggs well beaten, sugar and sale. Combine mix- 
ture. Turn into buttered mould, covered closely, and 
steam for four hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 

French Fruit Pudding. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup fine chopped suet. 

1 cup sour milk. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

11^ teaspoons soda. V2 teaspoon salt. 

3% cups flour. IV2 cups raisins. 

:^ teaspoon cloves. % cup currants. 

1/2 cup nut meat. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 237 

Add molasses and sour milk to suet finely chopped. 
Add two cups flour mixed with soda, salt and spices. 
Add fruit mixed with remaining flour. Turn into 
buttered mould, cover and steam four hours. Serve 
with Stirling sauce. — Mrs. C. M. Dearborn. 

Stirling Sauce. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 4 tablespoons cream. 

3 tablespoons wine. 

English Plum Pudding. 

% cup sugar. i/. pound stale bread crumbs. 

4 eggs. V2 pound raisins, cut into 

14 pound currants. pieces. 

1^4 pound figs. Small piece citron, cut fine. 

1^ pound suet. % cup wine and brandy 

^/4 teaspoon cloves. mixed. 

^2 teaspoon mace. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 cup scalded milk, 1% teaspoons salt. 

Pour milk over the bread crumbs, and let stand 
until cool. Add sugar, yolks of eggs beaten until 
light, then the raisin's, citron, figs and currants. Chop 
suet and rub it to a cream with the fingers. Combine 
the mixture. Add the wine and brandy and the spices 
mixed well together. Fold in the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff. Turn into buttered mould, and cover very closely 
and steam for six hours. 

APPLE DESSERTS. 
Apple Snow Pudding. 

2 cups strained apples. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 
1^2 cups flour. . Milk to make a thick drop 
1/^ teaspoon salt. batter. 

2 tablespoons butter. 



238 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Put the strained apples in a pudding-dish. Mix 
dry ingredients well together. Chop or rub in the 
butter. Add milk enough to make a thick drop batter. 
Pour over the apples in pudding-dish, and place in 
steamer and cook for about forty-five minutes, and 
serve at once with sweetened cream. 

Apple Dumpling. 

Prepare crust same as for prune or rhubarb dump- 
ling, or use plain pie crust. Select apples of uniform 
size, pare and core carefully. Fill the cavity with sugar 
and one-fourth spoonful of butter; mix cinnamon with 
the sugar, if liked. Roll pie crust thin, and cut into 
squares large enough to cover apple well; place apple 
in center of each piece. Moisten the edges of the 
crust, and draw the points together on top and press 
the edges together. Turn over and place in pan, 
smooth side up. Add one and one-half cups of sweet- 
ened water to pan in which you bake them. Dumplings 
must have some steam to cook the fruit and to keep 
crust from burning. Bake in slow oven forty-five 
minutes. 

Baked Apples. 

Select apples of uniform size, pare and core. Fill 
each cavity with sugar and small piece of butter. Place 
in pan and bake in slow oven for a long time, until 
they are well cooked and the flesh of the apple takes 
on a pinkish look. You want to put cup of water in 
pan when you set them in the oven, and baste the apple 
occasionally with it while it is cooking. Serve hot with 
the dinner or cold with whipped cream piled on and 
around it for a dessert. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 239 

Apples with Red Raspberry Jam. 

Pare, core and stew as many apples as needed. 
Add one and one-half cups of boiling water and cook 
ten minutes. Strain off the water, add one cup of 
sugar, and as soon as boiling-point is reached drop in 
apples a few at a time so as not to crowd them. Cook 
until you can pierce them, but they must keep their 
shape, removing them carefull}^ to a serving-dish as 
they cook, and adding more until all are cooked. Ar- 
range nicely on serving-dish, and fill center of each 
apple with red raspberry jam. Boil the liquor in sauce- 
pan down to a thick syrup, and pour over the apples 
and sprinkle them with chopped almonds and a tea- 
spoonful of brandy. Serve with a foamy sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Ornament the bottoms of a buttered mould with 
raisins and citron. Cover them w^ith slices of stale cake, 
then the fruit again, and repeat until the mould is 
two-thirds full. Make a custard with two and one-half 
cups of milk, yolks of four eggs and four tablespoons 
of sugar. Pour very carefully into the mould a little 
at a- time ; place mould in pan of hot water, and cook 
in slow oven until the custard is set: it will require 
from forty-five to fifty minutes. Unmould and serve 
with wine sauce. 



240 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
COLD DESSERTS. 

Lemon Jelly. 

1/2 box shredded, or 2 table- 1 cup sugar. 

spoons granulated, gelatine. y^ cup cold water. 

Vo cup lemon juice. 2y> cups boiling water. 

Soak gelatine in cold water for half an hour, dis- 
solve in boiling water, strain, and add to sugar and 
lemon juice. Turn into mould and chill. 

Orange Jelly. 

% box shredded, or 2 Vo cup cold water, 

tablespoons granulated, 1^/2 cups boiling water, 

gelatine. 1 cup sugar. 

1% cups orange juice. Juice 1 lemon. 

Pepare same as lemon jelly. Cut oranges crosswise, 
and use glass lemon squeezer, and strain the juice 
through a fine French sieve. Mould, turn on serving- 
dish, and garnish with candied orange peel. 

Wine Jelly. 

% box shredded, or 2 table- 1 cup sugar. 

spoons granulated, gelatine. Juice 1 orange. 

V2 cup cold water. Juice 1/0 lemon. 

IVo cups boiling water. 1 cup sherry wine. 

Soak gelatine thirty minutes in the cold water, dis- 
solve in the one and one-half cups of boiling water, 
and add fruit juice, sugar and wine. Strain, mould 
and chill. Catawba wine is very nice for making wine 



COLD DESSERTS. 241 

jelly, using one-half cup less water, omitting the orange 
juice, and usina: the catawba wine instead- 
Jellied Walnuts. 
11/. tablespoons granulated 1 cup sugar. 

gelatine. % cup orange juice. 

% cup cold water. % cup sherry wine. 

V. cup boiling water. Juice ^2 lemon. 

Prepare same as other jellies, and cover bottom of 
pan or mould with fiat bottom. Pour in part of the 
mixture and place in ice-water until nearly firm. Then 
place a layer of halves of English walnuts under the 
entire top, allowing a little space between. Cover with 
the remaining mixture. Chill, turn on serving-dish, 
and garnish with whipped cream dotted with creme de 
Menthe or Maraschino cherries. If the red cherries- 
are used, tint the cream a delicate rose pink before 
whipping, or a delicate green if the creme de Menthes 
are used. 

Snow Pudding. 

IV4, tablespoons granulated Whites 4 eggs. 

gelatine. 1 cup sugar. 

1.3 cup cold water, 14 cup lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatine half an hour in cold water. Dissolve 
in the boiling water, add sugar and lemon juice, and 
strain. Set aside in cool place, stirring occasionally 
until quite thick. Beat with whisk until frothy. Add 
whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry. Continue beating 
until it will hold its shape. Mould or pile on glass 
serving-dish. Set where it will be very cold. Serve 
with cold boiled custard made from yolks of eggs. 
This pudding can be divided, and part tinted pink and 
part violet, which makes it very attractive. 



242 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding. 

11/4 tablespoons granulated Mi cup sugar. 

gelatine. 2 tablespoons brandy. 

i/i cup cold water. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 cups scalded milk. 6 macaroons. 

Yolks 3 eggs. 6 lady-fingers. 

Put gelatine to soak. Make a custard of the eggs, 
milk and sugar. Salt, strain, add the soaked gelatine, 
cool slightly, and arrange a mould in pan of ice-water. 
Decorate mould with candied cherries and angelica. 
Cover with the mixture, adding carefully with a spoon 
a little at a time. When mixture in mould is firm, 
add layer of lady-fingers dipped in the custard, then 
a layer of the macaroons that have been dipped in the 
custard. Repeat, using care to have each layer firm 
before adding another. Garnish with candied cherries 
and serve with cream. 

To Whip Cream. 

We use both thin and heavy cream in preparing 
desserts. It can be purchased in pints, half -pints and 
quarts. The heavy cream is known as double cream, 
and when thoroughly chilled will whip quickly. Cream 
should be chilled by placing it in a vessel surrounded 
by crushed ice and water. There are several cream- 
whips on the market that do the work nicely and quick- 
ly. The whip-churn is good for preparing the whip 
for charlotte russe, where we use the gelatine and want 
the large bubbles; also for the fruit sponges. Place 
whip-churn in bowl of chilled cream, and hold down 
cover with left hand, and with the right hand work 
the dasher, using care not to lift dasher too high or 
it will splatter. Stir down the first bubbles or they 
will be too large. After that remove the bubbles with 



COLD DESSERTS. 243 

spoon with holes in it, and place on strainer. As the 
cream drains through, it can be returned to bowl and 
W'hipped again until all is done. There will be a little 
left in the bowl that does not whip. Cream after whip- 
ping should be three times its bulk before whipping. 
Heavy cream must be whipped with a Dover egg-beater 
or some of the new whips at present found in the up- 
to-date house- furnishing establishments. Sweeten and 
flavor all cream before whipping. To dilute cream, 
use one-third milk. Heavy whipped, sweetened and 
flavored creams are used with pastry bag and tube to 
decorate fancy cold desserts. 

Charlotte Russe* 

Yi box shredded, or 2 table- i^ cup cold water. 

spoons granulated, gelatine. % cup scalded cream. 

Whip from 4 cups thin cream. % cup powdered sugar. 

L.ady-fingers to line mould. IY2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in the scalded 
cream., and strain into mixing-bowl. Add sugar and 
vanilla. Set bowl into pan of ice-water, and stir until 
it begins to thicken. Then fold in the whip from 
cream a little at a time, making about three additions. 
Trim ends of lady-fingers, and decorate mould with 
them, leaving a little space between, turning the crust 
side out. Turn in mixture, chill and serve. 

Caramel Charlotte. 

2 tablespoons granulated 2 tablespoons powdered 

gelatine. sugar. 

1/4 cup cold water. 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

^2 cup scalded cream. 6 lady-fingers. 

% cup sugar, caramelized. Whip from 4 cups cream. 

Prepare same as charlotte russe. Add the caramel 
sugar to the scalded cream before adding the gelatine 



244 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

soaked in the cold water. Line charlotte mould, and 
fill and chill. 

Strawberry Sponge. 

2 tablespoons granulated 1 cup sugar. 

gelatine. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

% cup cold water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 

Vs cup boiling water. Whites 4 eggs. 

1 quart cream whip. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling- 
water ; add sugar, lemon and strawberry juice and pulp. 
Chill in ice-water. When thick, beat with wire whip 
until frothy. Add whites of eggs beaten stiff, and 
fold in the cream whip. Turn mixture in mould 
smoothly and evenly, chill, and turn on serving-dish. 
Use large berries split in halves to decorate the sponge, 
and some strawberry leaves and the whole berries for 
the plate. This is a pretty strawberry dessert. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Grated rind and juice 1 tablespoon granulated 

i/o lemon. gelatine. 

% cup white wine. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

% cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Turn lemon, wine, sugar and yolks of eggs into 
saucepan, and stir briskly over fire until mixture 
thickens. Add gelatine soaked in the cold water, then 
pour over the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Place in 
pan of ice-water and beat until stiff' enough to hold 
its shape. Line mould with lady-fingers. Turn in 
cream, and chill. Strawberry, orange or red raspberry 
juice can be used instead of the wine. 



COLD DESSERTS. 245 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. 

2 tablespoons granulated 1 can grated pineapple. 

gelatine. % cup sugar. 

Yii cup cold water. 1 tal^lcspoon lemon juice. 

1 quart whipped cream. 

Soak gfelatine in cold water. Heat pineapple, and 
add sugar, lemon juice and the soaked gelatine. Chili 
in pan of ice-water, stirring constantly. When it be- 
gins to thicken, fold in whipped cream, mould and chill. 

Caramel Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk. I/2 cup sugai\ 

6 eggs. Vi teaspoon salt. 

Put sugar in frying-pan. Stir constantly, over 
hot part of the range, until melted to a syrup of a light 
brown color. Kemove at once and add to the milk, 
using care that the milk does not bubble up and run 
over, as it is liable to do on account of the great heat 
of the sugar. As soon as the sugar is melted in 
milk, add the mixture gradually to the slightly beaten 
eggs. Add salt, and flavoring, and strain all into a 
buttered mould. Bake in slow oven, with mould resting 
in water until firm. Chill and turn on serving-dish, 
and pour over a caramel sauce. 

Caramel Sauce 

% cup sugar. Vii cup boiling water. 

Prepare sugar in frying-pan as for caramel custard. 
Add water, simmer ten minutes, and cool. Pour over 
the custard when it is unmoulded, and sprinkle over 
all some finely chopped almonds. — 3Iiss Parloa. 

Baked Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk. V2 cup sugar. 

6 eggs, beaten slightly. 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Pinch of salt. 



246 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beat eggs slightly. Pour on scalded milk slowly, 
flavor, and strain into buttered mould. Set in pan of 
hot water, and bake in slow oven until firm, which 
can be determined by drawing a knife through custard; 
if knife comes out clean, the custard is done. You can 
bake this in custard cups if you desire. 

Boiled Custard. 

Yolks 4 eggs. H cup sugar. 

Pinch salt. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 cups hot milk. 

Slightly beat the eggs, add salt and sugar, and pour 
on gradually the hot milk. Cook in double boiler until 
it coats the spoon as thick as cream. Remove at once, 
strain, chill and flavor. Too long cooking will cause it 
to curdle. 

Apple Snow. 

Whites 4 eggs. 1 cup apple pulp. 

Powdered sugar. 

Pare, core and quarter four or five apples, according 
to size. Steam until tender and rub through a sieve. 
Sweeten to taste. Beat whites of eggs until stiff. Add 
gradually the apples, and continue the beating. Pile 
lightly on glass dish and serve with cream or soft 
custard. 

Fruit Salad. 

Use alternate layers of pineapple, bananas and 
oranges, a little lemon juice, and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

To Slice Oranges. — Remove the skin and all the 
white covering. Slice lengthwise, removing seeds and 
tough core in center. Strawberries are a nice addition 
to this salad, also pitted cherries and grapes. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 247 



CHAPTER XXVII. 
FROZEN DESSERTS. 

FROZEN desserts include water ices — fruit juice 
sweetened, diluted with water, and frozen. 

Sherbet. — A water ice to which is added a small 
quantity of dissolved gelatine, or egg whites beaten 
until light. 

Frappe. — AVater ice frozen to a mush, using equal 
parts of salt and ice. 

Punch. — Water ice with liquor of some kind added. 

Sorbet. — Water ice where several kinds of fruit 
are used, together with some kind of liquor, usually. 

Plain Ice-cream. — Made with custard to form 
bod3% then cream and flavorings. 

Philadelphia Ice-cream. — Use for this a rather 
thick cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla, and 
frozen. 

Mousse. — Heavy cream beaten until stiff, combined 
with fruit purees and gelatines, packed in salt and 
ice and allowed to stand for three and one-half or four 
hours. 

Frozen desserts are served all the year round, and 
are not any more trouble than the making of any des- 
sert. Mousses are especially easy to prepare, as they 
are packed in ice and salt and allowed to rest until 
time for unmoulding to serve. For the sick and con- 
valescent, they hold a place all their own. 



248 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

General Rules for Ice-cream Mixtures. 

Unless cream is to be whipped, it is best to scald 
it in double boiler, as it g-ives a smoother and better 
ice, using care not to cook it too long, as cream cooked 
too long will not increase in bulk. As soon as the 
water in bottom of double boiler reaches the boiling- 
point is long enough, and wants to be removed at once. 
For water ices, always make a syrup with the sugar 
and water by cooking them together for ten minutes, 
then add the fruit juices. For custard and frozen 
pudding, the milk should always be scalded and poured 
onto the beaten eggs, then returned to the tire in double 
boiler and cooked until they coat the spoon, but not 
a moment longer. Beat until cool, flavor, and pack in 
freezer, using three measures of crushed ice and one 
of rock or coarse salt. For biscuits and parfaits, the 
custard is made of sugar, syrup and yolks of eggs cooked 
together until it coats the spoon, then beaten until cool. 

Preparation for Freezing. 

Put the ice in strong cloth bag, and with wooden 
mallet kept for the purpose pound it very fine; the 
finer the ice is crushed, the sooner the freezing will 
begin. Place the can in the freezing-jacket, using care 
to have the pivot of the can in the socket. Put cover 
on can with cork in the top, that no salt may get in, 
and pack, using three times as much crushed ice as 
salt. Hold your can straight while packing, and pack 
to within about an inch of the top. See that the can 
will turn. Take off top, and place the dasher in posi- 
tion with pivot in socket in bottom of can. Then pour 
in carefully your ice-cream mixture, but do not have 
freezer more than three-fourths full. Adjust top and 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 249 

crank, and turn for about twenty minutes, and your 
cream will be ready to pack and ripen. You do not 
have to remove top to know when it is done. The 
crank reports to you all that is necessary by turning 
much stiffer. Cream frozen too quickly will be coarse- 
grained. There will be no freezing on the inside until 
there is melting on the outside. 

Packing. — When cream is frozen, take off crank 
and wipe top carefully, using care to have the salt and 
ice lower than the can. Lift off top, remove the paddle, 
and with a wooden spoon pack the cream in tight. If 
fruit or whipped cream is to be added, do it now and 
mix it well with the cream, or, if the cream is to be 
moulded, 'remove from freezer and place in moulds that 
are ready for this purpose. Make the cream firm and 
compact in mould by the use of a common wooden po- 
tato-masher and wooden spoon. Smooth the top of the 
mould cover with a paraffin paper, and bind the edge 
of the top with butter or lard, to keep out the salt 
water when they are packed. But if the cream is to 
ripen in the freezer-jacket, you replace the top, put 
in cork, and draw off the water from jacket by taking 
out cork which you will find near bottom of the pail. 
Add more ice and salt. Cover top with coarse cloth, 
and let it rest until ready to serve, noticing that the 
water does not rise above the top of can. Ices are 
always better to stand at least one hour before sei-ving, 
to ripen and blend. 

Moulding Ice-cream. — Put the frozen ice-cream 
into mould, filling it entirely full ; press it down to force 
out all air bubbles, cover with thin white paper, press 
on top close, and bind round the edge with butter to 
keep out the salt water. The joints must be water- 



250 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

proof to accomplish this. Imbed the mould in salt an J 
broken ice for from one to five hours. Mousses require 
from five and one-half to six hours; parfaits, from two 
to three hours. Watch and draAV off water; if neces- 
sary, add more ice. 

Lemon Ice. 

4 cups water. 2i/4 cups sugar. 

1 cup lemon juice. 

Make syrup by boiling sugar and water for twenty 
minutes. Strain, cool and freeze, according to direc- 
tions for freezing. Serve in sherbet cups. 

Orange Ice. 

4 cups water. 2 cups orange juice. 

21/4 cups sugar. Grated rind 2 oranges. 

% cup lemon juice. 

Prepare same as for lemon ice. Add fruit juice 
and grated rind. Cool, strain and freeze. Serve in 
sherbet cups. 

Strawberry Ice. 

2 cups strawberry juice. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups sugar. 4 cups water. 

Sprinkle strawberries with sugar, and let them 
stand for two or three hours. Mash and press through 
a very fine French sieve or cheesecloth. Add the water 
and lemon juice, then freeze. This method will give 
you a fine, fresh flavor and good color for water ice. 

Raspberry Ice. 

Prepare same as strawberry ice, using either the 
red raspberry or the black-caps. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 251 



Currant Ice. 

2 cups currant juice. 2 cups sugar. 

4 cups water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Prepare and freeze same as strawberry ice. 

Currant and Red Raspberry Ice. 

4 cups water. 1 cup currant juice. 

1 cup raspberry juice. 1^2 cups sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Prepare and freeze same as strawberry. This is a 
nice combination. 

Creme de Mentha ice. 

4 cups water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1V4 cups sugar. % cup creme de Menthe. 

Leaf green to color. 

Make synip with water and sugar, then add lemon. 
Strain, color a very delicate green, add cordial, and 
freeze. 

Chocolate Ice with Whipped Cream. 

3 squares chocolate. 1^4 cups boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. 3 cups milk (scalded). 

Salt and vanilla. 

Melt chocolate over hot water and scalded milk. Add 
half the sugar to chocolate, and salt. Add gradually 
the boiling water; boil a moment, and add to scalded 
milk with the remaining sugar. Cool and freeze. Gar- 
ni.sh with whipped, sweetened and flavored cream. 

Pineapple Sorbet. 

2 cups water. 1% cups orange juice. 
2% cups sugar. i/^ cup lemon juice. 

1 shredded pineapple. 1 quart Apollinaris. 

Prepare and freeze. 



252 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Apricot Sorbet. 

1 can apricots. % cup lemon juice. 

114 cups sugar. 1 pint cream. 

Drain apricots, rub pulp through sieve, and add to 
juice. Add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze to a mush, 
which you can tell by the turning of the freezer. Lift 
top and fold in the cream that has been whipped. Let 
it rest for two hours, and serve in glasses. 

Cardinal Punch. 

4 cups water. % cup lemon juice. 

2^,2 cups sugar. % cup brandy. 

1 cup orange juice. % cup strong green tea infusion. 

Prepare syrup same as for any water ice. Add 
fruit juice and tea, freeze to a mush, add liquor, and 
continue freezing. Serve in frappe glasses. 

Pineapple Cream. 

2 cups water. 1 grated pineapple. 
IVa cups sugar. 2 cups cream. 

% cup orange juice. 

Cook together sugar, water and pineapple for fifteen 
minutes. Add orange juice, strain, and freeze to a 
mush. Open freezer and fold in the whipped cream. 
Return top and continue freezing. Draw off water^ 
pack, and stand for thirty minutes. Serve in frappe 
glasses. Garnish with candied pineapple and cherries. 

Philadelphia Cream. 

1 quart cream. % cup sugar. 

ll^ tablespoons vanilla. 

Mix ingredients and freeze according to directions; 
for freezino^. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 253 

Vanilla Ice=cream. 

1 pint scalded milk. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons flour. 14 teaspoon salt. 
1 cup sugar. 1 quart cream. 

2 tablespoons vanilla. 

Mix flour. su|?ar, salt and eggs slightly beaten. Add 
milk slowly. Cook in double boiler over hot water for 
twenty minutes, stirring constantly at first. Strain, 
cool, add cream and flavoring. Pack freezer, pour in 
cream, and freeze as directed. Serve with chocolate 
sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce. 

1% cups water. 2 squares chocolate (Baker's). 

% cup sugar. 14 cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Pinch salt. 

Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. 
Mix chocolate and arrowroot, add cold water, combine 
all with sugar and water syrup, and add salt. Boil five 
minutes longer slowly. Flavor with vanilla. Pour on 
cream while hot. 

French Ice=creani. 

1 pint milk, scalded. l^j tablespoons vanilla or 

3 cups cream. 1 vanilla bean. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Yolks 6 eggs. Pinch salt. 

Heat milk to scald in double boiler. Beat yolks and 
sugar and flour until light and smooth. Add scalded 
milk slowly to egg^ and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook fifteen minutes, stirring all the while at first. 
If vanilla bean is used for the flavoring, it should be 
split in two lengthwise and infused in the milk as it 
scalds. Remove custard from fire, strain, and stir until 



254 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

cold. Add cream, and, if extract of vanilla is used, 
add that. Freeze as directed. 

Chocolate Ice=creani. 

Use either of the recipes for vanilla cream, accord- 
ing to the richness desired, adding to the custard while 
it is hot three squares of Baker's chocolate melted in 
small saucepan on range at low degree of heat. "When 
melted, stir in a very little milk to dilute it before 
adding to the custard. Cool, freeze, and 'pack as 
directed. 

Coffee Ice=cream. 

2 cups milk. Yolks 4 eggs. 

% cup Moclia and Java 1 tablespoon flour. 

coffee. Pinch salt. 

1% cups sugar. 1 quart cream. 

Steep the coffee in the double boiler in the scalded 
milk, strain and return the infusion to the double 
boiler. Mix the egg yolks with the sugar, salt and 
flour. Pour on the coffee infusion from the double 
boiler slowly, and cook all for ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove, strain, cool, add cream, pack and 
freeze. Coffee ice-cream can be served with Maraschino 
cherries. 

Caramel Ice=creani. 

1 pint milk. Yolks 4 eggs. 

■3 cups cream. IVs cups sugar. 

1 tablespoon flour. % cup water. 

Scald milk, and make custard with eggs and flour. 
Caramelize the sugar in frying-pan, add water, and 
cook until a very thick syrup. Pour into the custard, 
strain and cool. Add cream, and freeze as directed. 
Serve with hot caramel sauce. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 255 

Strawberry Ice-cream. 

3 pints cream. 2 cups sugar. 

3 cups berries. Pinch of salt. 

Wash, drain and cap berries; cut into slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, and let them stand for two hours. 
Press them through a fine sieve, or you can rest cheese- 
cloth over sieve or colander. The cream wants to be 
rather a good quality for this cream. Put cream in 
and freeze slightly, then add the berry juice and sugar, 
and finish freezing. Garnish with strawberry leaves 
and large berries. 

Bisque Ice=cream. 

Make a custard as for vanilla ice-cream, using one 
more yolk of egg. Add one quart of thick cream; it 
need not be thick enough to whip, but rather thicker 
than for the vanilla cream. Add one cup of nut meats, 
either pecans or English walnuts, or our own shellbark 
hickory-nuts cut fine or ground with the coarsest knife 
of the food-chopper. 

Macaroon Ice-cream. 

1 quart cream. 1 cup sugar. 

iy2 cups macaroons. 1 tablespoon vajiilla. 

Pinch salt. 

Pound macaroons (if they are fresh, dry them), and 
add cream, sugar, salt and vanilla. Freeze as directed. 

Ginger Ice=cream. 

Add two cups of preserved ginger (cut fine) to the 
vanilla ice-cream, and three tablespoons of syrup from 
the ginger, one cup of finely chopped nuts (any kind 
you like), and one-third cup sherry wine. Then freeze. 



256 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Make same as vanilla ice-cream, using one teaspoon 
of almond extract with one tablespoon of vanilla for 
the flavoring. Color with leaf green, and add one-half 
cup of blanched and chopped almonds or pistachio nuts. 

Neapolitan Cream. 

Two kinds of cream and a water ice, moulded in 
a brick form. 

Frozen Pudding. 

214 cups milk. Cup heavy cream. 

1 cup sugar. % cup rum. 

A little salt. 1 cup candied fruit. 

2 eggs. Clierries, pineapple an pears. 

Soak the fruit (cut in small pieces) in brandy to 
cover for two hours or longer, to prevent it from freez- 
ing. Make custard of the milk, sugar, salt and eggs. 
Strain, cool, add cream and rum, and freeze. Pack in 
brick mould in layers of cream and the fruit that has 
soaked in the brandy. Pack in salt and ice for three 
hours. Serve with candied fruit for a garnish. 

Peach Ice-cream. 

1 quart fresh peaches, 1 quart heavy cream, 

crushed and rubbed A pinch of salt, 

through sieve. Sugar to taste. 

Select a ripe freestone peach, pare and cut into 
pieces. Rub through sieve, making a puree. Add 
sugar, salt and cream, and freeze. Garnish with one- 
quarter pieces of the peaches and some peach leaves. 

Baked Alaska. 

Whites 6 eggs. 6 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Thin sheet sponge cake. 2 quarts brick ice-cream. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 257 

• ]\Iake meringue of eggs and sugar. Cover board 
with white paper, lay on sponge cake, and turn ice- 
cream on cake, allowing the cake to extend one inch 
beyond the cream. Cover with the meringue. Spread 
very smoothly. Brown quickly in hot oven; a gas 
oven is best for this. 

Tom and Jerry Punch. 

^ pint yolks eggs. 14 cup Maraschino. 

1/. pound sugar. % cup brandy. 

1 pint milk. i^ grated nutmeg. 

3 cups cream. 

Make a custard of eggs, sugar and milk. Strain, 
cool, add cream, and freeze to a mush. Add Maraschino, 
brandy and nutmeg, and finish freezing. — Gibson House 
Chef.^ 

Tom and Jerry Pudding:. 

To the above recipe add one and one-half cups of 
mixed fruits cut and soaked in brandy to cover for 
two hours. Use raisins, citron, cherries and candied 
pineapple, and one-half cup chopped nut meat. The 
fruit is to be added when the punch is frozen to a 
mush. 

Kresch Wasser Frappe. 

1 quart water. 1-inch stick cinnamon. 

1 pound sugar. 3 whole cloves. 

3 lemons. Thin peeling 1 lemon. 

1 orange. Thin peeling 1 orange. 

V2 cup Kresch Wasser. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, with the cinnamon, 
orange, lemon and cloves. Cook for ten minutes, re- 
move from fire, strain and cool. Freeze until frappe. 
Add Kresch Wasser. 



258 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Maraschino or Ladies' Punch. 

Prepare same as Kresch Wasser frappe, using three- 
fourths cup IMaraschino instead of the Kresch Wasser, 

Sultana Roll with Claret Sauce. 

Line one-pound baking-powder tins with pistachio 
ice-cream. Sprinkle with sultana raisins soaked one 
hour in brandy to cover. Fill center with whipped 
cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla, and one- 
half cup chopped almonds folded in. Cover with the 
pistachio cream full, so when top is forced on th© 
cream will come out round the edge. Pack in salt and 
ice for two hours. 

Claret Sauce. 

1 cup sugar. Va cup water. 

% cup claret. 

Boil sugar and water for ten minutes, until synip 
is very thick. Cool slightly, add claret and serve. 

Cafe Parfait. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup sugar. 

% cup Mocha coffee. 3 cups cream that will 

Yolks 3 eggs. whip. 

Pinch salt. 

Steep coffee in the hot milk, and make custard with 
the milk, coffee, salt and half the sugar. Add one cup 
cream and rest for a few moments. Strain through 
cheesecloth to catch a*ll the grounds of the coffee, add 
remaining sugar and one cup cream, and freeze. Line 
mould and fill center with whipped, sweetened and 
flavored cream. Pack in salt and ice, and stand for 
three hours. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 259' 

Bom be Glacee. 

Line mould with fine colored fruit sherbet. Fill 
with ice-cream or charlotte russe mixture. Cover with 
the sherbet, pack in salt and ice, and stand for two 
hours. Strawberry ice and macaroon ice-cream make 
a good combination. 

Nesselrod Pudding. 

1 cup French chestnuts. V^ teaspoon salt. 

ll<2 cups sugar. % cup pineapple syrup. 

G egg yolks. % pound mixed candied fruit. 

2 cups milk. 1 cup blanched almonds. 

1 pint cream, % cup Maraschino and sherry. 

Shell, blanch and cook the chestnuts until tender. 
Press half of them through a sieve. Blanch the al- 
monds, and chop fine with food-chopper. Cut the can- 
died fruit and remaining chestnuts into dice, and pour 
over them the Maraschino and let them stand until 
ready to use. Make a custard with the milk, sugar 
and the eggs and salt. Strain, cool, add cream, chest- 
nuts and the almonds, and freeze. Line a two-quart 
mould with the mixture, and to the remaining add 
the diced fruits, chestnuts and sherry. Put in mouldy 
pack in salt and ice, and let stand for two hours. Serve 
with whipped cream sweetened and flavored with 
Maraschino syrup. Garnish with Maraschino cherries. 
This pudding is supposed to have originated from the 
chef of Count Nesselrod. 

Strawberry Mousse. 

1 box strawberries. 1X4 tablespoons granulated 

1 cup sugar. gelatine. 

1 quart cream. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

3 tablespoons hot water. 



260 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Wash, drain and cap the berries, sprinkle with sugar, 
and let them stand for an hour. Rub them through a 
sieve. Add the gelatine soaked in the cold and dis- 
solved in the boiling water. Set in pan of ice-water 
and stir until it begins to thicken; then fold in the 
whip from the cream. Put in mould, cover, pack in 
salt and ice ; let stand for four hours. You can use 
raspberries instead of strawberries. 

Coffee Mousse. 

Make same as strawberry, using one cup of strong, 
freshly made boiled coffee instead of the fruit juice. 

Maple Parfait. 

Yolks 6 eggs. 1 cup hot maple syrup. 

y^ cup chopped nuts. 1 pint thick cream. 

Whip cream until stiff, beat yoll^ and pour on 
slowly the maple syrup. Cook until mixture thickens, 
cool, and fold in the whipped cream and chopped nuts. 
Mould and pack in salt and ice for three hours. 

Mousse Marron. 

1 quart vanilla ice-cream. 1^/4 teaspoons granulated 

% cup sugar. gelatine. 

y^ cup water. 1% cups prepared French 

Whites 2 eggs. chestnuts. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 1 pint whipping cream. 

Cook sugar and water rapidly for five minutes, dis- 
solve gelatine in two tablespoons boiling water, and add 
to syrup. Place in pan of ice-water. Stir until cold; 
add chestnuts and fold in the whipped cream and 
vanilla. Line mould with ice-cream and fill center with 
the mixture. Cover closely, pack in salt and ice, and 
stand for three hours. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 261 



Biscuit Tortoni. 

2 cups thin cream. % cup sherry wine. 

% cup sugar. 1 pint whipping cream. 

1 cup dried and crushed macaroons. 

Soak macaroons in the thin cream half an hour or 
more. Add the sus^ar and wine, freeze to a mush, and 
add the thick cream whipped until stiff. Mould, pack 
in salt and ice. Rest for two and one-half hours. 



262 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

BEVERAGES. 

"Drink away all unkindness." — Shakespeare. 

A beverage is any kind of a drink, and is composed 
of water combined with other things. And as water is 
so essential to man, we want to give attention, and 
much consideration, to the different beverages. The^^ 
are taken to quench thirst ; to introduce water into the 
circulatory system; to assist in carrying off the waste; 
to regulate the temperature of our body; to stimulate 
the nervous system; to nourish, and for medical pur- 
poses. 

TEA. 

Tea is used to a large extent in every country, not 
so much in the United States as many otlier countries, 
but the five o'clock tea is quite fashionable. All tea 
is grown from one species of shrub. Climate, elevation, 
soil and care in picking and curing all go to make up 
the differences. The first quality is that made from 
the young, whole leaves. There are two kinds of tea 
we consider : Black tea, made from leaves which have 
fermented before curing; green tea, made from un- 
fermented leaves and colored. Our best black tea comes 
from Ceylon and India, and is known oy the names 
of Oolong, Formosa, English Breakfast, Flowery Pekoe, 
Orange Pekoe, etc. The two last named are used a 
great deal for iced teas and five o'clock teas, and for 
this reason command a high price. They are prepared 



BEVERAGES. 263 

from the youngest leaves, and are scented with orange 
leaves. Our best green tea comes from Japan, and is 
known as Japan, Young Hyson and Gunpowder. 

Analysis tells us that the tea is rich in proteid mat- 
ter, but after the infusing it becomes a stimulant, 
and the only nutriment we get is in the milk and sugar, 
and as the tea-drinker usually takes it without the milk, 
only sugar is left, and for the foregoing reason we 
look upon it as a stimulant only. The stimulating 
property is due to theine, while we also find tannic 
acid, which is developed from the tannin by infusing. 
This is what is considered injurious in the tea, from 
the fact that tannin will contract the coating of the 
stomach, and for this reason retards the action. It 
also, when taken in excess, will cause sleeplessness, but 
when taken in moderation it does no harm, provided 
it is properly made. Freshly boiled water slhould 
always be used for making tea. Water below the boil- 
ing-point does not extract the stimulating properties 
of the tea, and water boiled too long is rendered flat 
and insipid, for the reason that the atmospheric gases 
escape. Tea wants always to be infused, never boiled, 
and served at once, as long steeping develops the tan- 
nic acid and also destroys the delicate flavor. The 
tea-ball is much used by tea-lovers, especially in the 
drawing-room with the samovar. 

To Make Tea. 

3 teaspoons tea. 2 cups boiling water. 

Scald an earthen or china teapot and have it very 
hot. Put in the tea, and pour on the boiling water. 
Let it stand where it keeps hot, but does not boil. 
Steep for five, minutes and serve at once. Serve with 



26-1 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

sugar and cream, as one desires; always add cream 
to tea after pourino-. Do not add fresh leaves to pot 
and steep again, but turn out the steeped leaves and 
scald pot, and make the second cup with fresh leaves 
and water. 

Five O'clock Tea. 

For this you use ''five o'clock tea-kettle" in draw- 
ing-room, with either the teapot or the tea-ball. 

Russian Tea. 

Follow recipe for making tea. Russian tea can be 
served hot or cold, but always without milk, with the 
addition of a small piece of lemon cut the long ways 
and all the seeds removed, each person sweetening to 
taste. 

Iced Tea. 

3 teaspoons tea. 2 cups iDOiling water. 

Make as above directed, and strain into glasses filled 
half full of cracked ice. Serve with lemon with seeds 
removed. 

Tea with Mint. 

Make same as iced tea^ using three crushed leaves 
of mint in the glass and pour on the hot tea. This 
gives a fine flavor of the mint. Garnish with creme de 
Menthe cherry in each glass. 

COFFEE. 

Coffee is grown in all tropical climes, but the coffee- 
tree came originally from Abyssinia. The berries of 
the coft'ee-tree are the coffee of commerce. Coffee 
berries before roasting are almost tasteless. The value 
of coffee is determined by its size, shape and color. 



BEVERAGES. 265 

Coffee used to be cured by exposure to the sun, but 
the coffee of the present day is washed and dried by 
steam heat. Coffee needs to be roasted. In the process 
of roasting the flavor is developed and tiie berries are 
increased in size. Java ranks highest for flavor, but the 
Mocha has the strength and sparkle, and commands 
the highest price. Mocha and Java combined give the 
finest cup of coffee, using one measure of Mocha to 
two of Java. 

The stimulating properties of coffee are due to the 
"caffeine" and essential oils. Coffee also contains 
an astringent, and is considered a greater stimulant 
than tea. Coffee quickens the action of the heart 
and acts upon the nervous system, and when taken after 
the meal it assists the digestion, and fatigue of body 
and mind are lessened by the moderate use of coffee. 
A coffee-drinker can stand severe cold better than one 
who does not use coffee. In time of war it has been 
found invaluable to the soldier, and a much better 
stimulant than alcoholic drinks to keep up his powers 
of endurance. Both tea and coffee are more readily 
absorbed when taken on an empty stomach, and for 
this reason should not be used in this way except for 
medicinal purposes. The flavor, aroma and strength 
of the coffee are a volatile oil encased in the woody 
fiber of the coffee bean, and the grinding and crushing* 
of the berry expose this oil to the action of the water, 
and give the flavor and strength to the cup of coffee. 

Coffee is served either as an infusion or a decoc- 
tion. The infusion is considered the most wholesome, 
but the boiled coffee (or decoction) is more generally 
used by the consumers. We buy the coffee almost en- 
tirely roasted and ground, in either of three ways — 
fine, coarse and medium — the grinding depending upon 



266 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the way it is to be made, using finely ground for fil- 
tered and coarse or medium for boiling. 

Filtered Coffee. 

11^ cups coffee. 6 cups boiling water. 

There is a great variety of coffee-pots on the mar- 
ket for making filtered coffee. They all contain a 
strainer in which to hold the coffee without letting 
the grounds mix with the infusion. Place coffee in 
strainer and place on range where it keeps hot, but will 
not boil. Add gradually the boiling water, allowing 
it to filter slowly. If not strong enough, refilter, and 
serve at once with cut sugar and good cream. Always 
put sugar and cream in cup before pouring the coffee. 
If cream is not obtainable, use scalded milk; it is well 
to have a pitcher of hot milk to dilute coffee if too 
strong. 

Boiled Coffee. 

11/4 cups coffee. 1 cup cold water. 

1 egg. 6 cups boiling water. 

Use granite pot. Scald, wash egg, and break in bowl 
with the coffee, using shell. Mix M^ell, turn on the cup 
of cold water, pour all into the scalded pot, and pour 
over the six cups of water that have just reached the 
boiling-point. Stir thoroughlj^ place on hot part of 
range, and let it boil for three minutes; it must boil 
or the coffee will not be clear, but too long boiling de- 
velops the tannic acid. Draw it where it keeps very 
hot, but does not boil, for ten minutes. Be careful to 
keep coffee covered closely and spout of pot filled with 
soft paper, to keep the aroma from escaping. Just 
before you serve it, pour out some in cup to be sure 
the spout is free from grounds, and pour in one-half 



BEVERAGES. 267 

cup of ice-water or a small piece of ice. This drives 
the grounds to the bottom. Serve at once with cut 
sugar and cream. If any coffee is left over, pour off 
the grounds and use to wet the coffee for the next 
meal or for making a jelly. Coffee can be cleared with 
the shells from the eggs, but will not be so rich or fme 
flavored. 

Cafe au Lait. 

Make coffee very strong, and serve equal quantity 
of scalded milk. In the French market in New Orleans 
they serve this very fine. 

Vienna Coffee. 

Make a fine drip or percolated coffee, and serve 
whipped cream, using thick cream, and whip stiff. 

Cafe Noir. 

AFTER-DINNER COFFEE. 

For after-dinner use twice the amount of coffee, 
and filter. Serve in after-dinner cups, with cut sugar. 
This coffee, taken without cream, is supposed to assist 
digestion. Gentlemen often burn brandy with some 
sweet spices and add this to the coffee. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. 

Our cocoa and chocolate industry is confined chiefly 
to ]\[exico, South America and the West Indies. Both 
cocoa and chocolate are prepared from seeds of the 
cocoa bean. The bean pod is from eight to ten inches 
long, and from three to four inches in diameter, each 
pod containing from twenty to forty seeds, imbedded 
in a mucilaginous substance. The beans are dried 



268 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

before they are imported, but have to be roasted to 
develop the flavor. After the roasting, the outer 
covering is removed, and this covering makes the 
cocoa shells. The beans are broken and sold as cocoa 
nibs. 

The various preparations on the market are made 
from these ground cocoa nibs, from which, by hydraulic 
pressure, a large amount of the fat is expressed, leav- 
ing a solid cake. To this sugar, cornstarch or arrow- 
root is added, and some cinnamon or vanilla. Broma 
contains arrowroot and cinnamon. 

Chocolate is made from the nibs, but contains a 
much larger amount of fat than the cocoa prepara- 
tions, and for this reason is harder to digest. It is 
made into cakes for the market, in bitter, sweet and the 
flavored. Cocoa butter is made from the fat from the 
cocoa bean. The cocoa and chocolate are very nourish- 
ing as well as stimulating. Theobromine is the active 
principle in the cocoa and chocolate. 

Cocoa Shells. 

1 cup cocoa shells. cups boiling water. 

Boil shells and water for three hours, adding more 
water as it boils away. Strain and serve same as cocoa, 
with milk and sugar. Milk should be hot. 

Breakfast Cocoa. 

2 tablespoons cocoa. 2 cups boiling water. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 2 cups scalded milk. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk, mix sugar, cocoa and salt, dilute with 
boiling water, adding slowly until a smooth paste, 
then add remaining water. Boil one minute, turn into 
scalding milk in double boiler, and whisk briskly with 



BEVERAGES. 269 

Dover egrg-beater, forming a froth which will prevent 
a scum from forming on top. 

Reception Cocoa. 

4 tablespoons cocoa. 1 cup boiling water. 

1/4 cup sugar, 4 cups scalded milk. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk in double boiler. ]\Iix salt, cocoa and 
sugar. Add boiling water slowh^ until a smooth paste 
is formed. Add all to scalded milk, and whisk with 
Dover egg-beater until well frothed. Serve with 
spoonful of whipped cream on each cup. 

Cocoa with Brandy. 

Use same proportions as for reception cocoa, and 
prepare in same way, and before you use the Dover 
egg-beater, add one-fourth cup of brandy. 

Chocolate. 

2 squares chocolate. 1 cup boiling water. 

1/4 cup sugar. 3% cups milk. 

2 cups whipped cream. i-. teaspoon vanilla. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk, melt chocolate in bowl over hot water, 
add sugar and salt, and gradually the boiling water. 
When perfectly smooth, cook on stove for a moment 
and add to the scalded milk, with vanilla. Beat and 
serve in chocolate cups with whipped cream. 

Sweetened Chocolate. 

2\(, ounces sweetened 4 cups scalded milk, 

chocolate. 2 cups whipped cream. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk, .add chocolate, and stir until chocolate 



270 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

is all melted. Cook a few moments in double boner. 
Beat and serve in chocolate cups with whipped cream. 

Fruit Punch. 

10 oranges. 2 cups sugar. 

6 lemons. 1 cup hot water. 

1 small pineapple, grated. 1 cup raspberry or straw- 

2 cups tea infusion. berry juice. 

1 quart Apollinaris. 

Make juice of orange, lemon, pineapple, raspberry 
syrup and tea. Then add syrup made by boiling sugar 
and water ten or twelve minutes rapidly. Place a 
square of ice in punch-bowl, and add punch. Just be- 
fore serving add Apollinaris. 

Club Punch. 

2 cups sugar. 1/2 cup Benedictine 

1 cup water. 1 quart (white) Burgundy. 

1 cup rum. 1 quart Apollinaris. 

'Y2 cup brandy. 1 cup strong green tea. 

3 sliced oranges. 1 small, ripe pineapple laid 
.Tuice 2 lemons. in sugar six hours. 

Ice. 

Make syrup by boiling sugar and water ten minutes. 
Mix remaining ingredients, sweeten to taste with syrup, 
and pour in punch-bowl over block of ice. — St. Nicholas 
Chef. 

Unfermented Grape Juice. 

10 pounds grapes. 1 cup water. 

3 pounds sugar. 

Pleat grapes with water in granite stewpan until 
skin and pulp separate. Strain through jelly-bag. Add 
sugar, heat to boiling-point, bottle and seal. This will 
make about one gallon, if grapes are fine. When 
served, dilute one-half. 



BEVERAGES, 271 

Cherry Punch. 

1 small bottle Maraschino 1 cup boiling water, 
cherries. 2 cups cherry juice from a 

6 oranges. dark red cherry. 

2 lemons. 1 cup pineapple juice. 
2 cups sugar. 1 quart Apollinaris. 

Proceed same as for fruit punch, making syrup 
with water and sugar boiled together for ten minutes. 
Cut one of the oranges in small pieces, and the pine 
in cubes, and use small bottle of Maraschino cherries to 
garnish the punch. Pour all on block of ice, chill and 
add Apollinaris. Serve in punch-cups. 

Claret Cup. 

1 quart Apollinaris. % cup brandy. 

1 quart claret wine. Syrup to sweeten. 

% cup curacoa. Crushed mint leaves. 

1 cup orange juice. Strawberries to garnish. 

Mix ingredients, except Apollinaris, using enough 
sugar S3^rup (made by boiling two cups of sugar and 
one of water for fifteen minutes) to sweeten to taste. 
Chill by placing near ice. Add the chilled Apollinaris 
just before serving. 

Champagne Punch. 

1 quart champagne. 2 tablespoons orange curacoa. 

2 cups sugar. Juice 2 lemons. 

1 cup water. 2 cups green tea. 

1/4 cup brandy. 1 quart soda water. 

1/4 cup rum. Block ice. 

Boil water and sugar to thick syrup. ]\Iix cham- 
pagne, brandy, rum, curacoa, lemon juice and tea in- 
fusion. Sweeten to taste, and pour in punch-bowl over 
block of ice. Just as you serve, turn on soda water. — 
Chef, 



272 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTEE XXIX. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

"Serenely full, the epicure would say; 
Fate can not harm me, I have dined to-day." 

— Recipe for salad, Sidney Smith. 

SALADS constitute a course at almost evet-y table, at 
luncheon and dinner, and it is quite the thing now 
for the lady of the house to see that her salads are prop- 
ei'ly made and attractively served, and even the nursery 
is provided with the plain lettuce and oil. This is 
quite different from the times of Matilda of Flanders, 
who had to send a messenger into the next kingdom 
to get the salad greens. The varieties and combina- 
tions found in the salad-bowl of to-day are marvels in 
taste and beauty. The salad plants are lettuce, chicory, 
watercress, cabbage, corn salad, etc. In these there is 
but little nutriment, but they stimulate the appetite, 
and are cooling and refreshing, and are valuable for 
the water and potash salts they contain, and the nutri- 
ment is supplied by the olive oil with which we dress 
them. Greens for salads should always be very crisp 
and fresh, thoroughly washed, drained and wrapped 
to exclude the air and chilled on ice. The plainer 
salads can be dressed at table, as many prefer to have 
done; but it is best to have combinations dressed just 
as you are ready to send to table. They should never 
be dressed and allowed to stand. Fish, vegetables, 
fowl, etc., should be mixed with French dressing and 
stand for a time, then drained and arranged on lettuce 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 273 

and more dressing added. In using several kinds of 
vegetables, they want to be put in French dressing in 
separate bowls, as the separate arrangement gives a more 
artistic salad. ■ Meats for salads want to be freed from 
skin, bone and gristle, cut in cubes with a pair of scis- 
sors, and put into a marinade until time to drain and 
dress. Fish should be flaked and treated in the same 
way. 

When salads are dressed at table, first sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, add oil, then the vinegar or lemon 
juice. If the acid is added first, it will cause the 
greens to wilt and the oil will settle in bottom of bow4 
instead of coating the leaves, and every leaf should 
glisten and sparkle with the oil before the acid is 
added. 

A capon is a piece cut from the end of a French 
loaf and rubbed with a clove of garlic. Put in the bot- 
tom of the bowl, and tossed about with the greens, it 
will impart the flavor as you stir and dress the salad. 
The capon is often used with a vegetable salad, and 
adds a very agreeable flavor. 

To Marinate. — In cookery, the w^ord means to add 
salt, pepper, vinegar and oil, and let stand until w^ell 
seasoned; then ahvays drain, or your salad dressings, 
especially Mayonnaise, will be diluted and thin. 

French Dressing I. 

^2 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

3/4 teaspoon black pepper. 3 tablespoons olive oil. 

Paprika. 

Mix seasonings with oil, then add vinegar slowly, 
stirring all the while. The acid dissolves the salt and 
pepper, and holds the oil in emulsion. 



274 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

French Dressing 11. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon Tarragon vinegar. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
2 tablespoons brandy. 4 tablespoons olive oil. 

Mix same as French Dressing I., adding brandy 
last— Chef. 

Boiled Cream Dressing. 

% cup vinegar. 1 teaspoon mustard (dry). 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. Piece butter size of walnut. 
Yolks 3 eggs. 1 cup whipped cream. 

White pepper. 

Mix flour, sugar, mustard, salt and pepper. Add 
the slightly beaten yolks of eggs. Stir until well 
blended. Heat vinegar in small saucepan, and pour 
on mixture. Stir well and return to saucepan, and 
cook for five minutes, stirring all the while. Remove 
from fire, add butter, stir and cool. Add whipped 
cream just as you are ready to dress the salad. This 
is nice on cabbage, tomatoes, etc. 

Cream Dressing. 

V2 cup thick cream. ' Vj teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

1/2 teaspoon paprika. 

Beat cream until stiff, using Dover egg-beater. Add 
salt, pepper and lemon juice, and continue the beating. 
Sprinkle the paprika over top of dressing. Vinegar can 
be used instead of the lemon juice if preferred. 

Horseradish Dressing. 

4 tablespoons grated 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

horseradish. 1 cup whipped cream. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. Salt, a little pepper and 

paprika. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 275 

Curry Dressing. 

"% teaspoon curry powder. i/4 teaspoon pepper. 

^2 teaspoon salt. G tablespoons olive oil. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. 

Mix same as French dressing. 

Mayonnaise Dressing I. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 teaspoon powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoon dry mustard. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon salt. % tablespoon Tarragon 
Yolk 1 hard-boiled egg. vinegar. 

Dash cayenne. ll^ cups olive oil. 

Mix dry ingredients. Add yolk and beat until 
thick. Add oil gradually drop by drop, stirring rapidly 
all the while. As the mixture thickens, thin with 
vinegar and the lemon juice. After the mixture 
thickens to a jelly consistency, the oil can be added 
faster, but in the start too much care can not be given 
to the slow addition, from the fact that if added too 
rapidly a decidedly curdled condition will show itself 
in the dressing. Should this occur, the remedy is to 
take a fresh yolk of egg, beat until thick, and add the 
curdled dressing slowly to the fresh yolk. If the 
stirring the mixture in inside of another bowl with ice- 
stirring the mixture in inside of another bowl with ice- 
water surrounding it. The olive oil should be chilled 
before using for Mayonnaise. For mixing Mayonnaise 
a Christie mixer, or a small wooden spoon, can be used. 
The Mayonnaise should be stiff enough to hold its 
shape. 

Mayonnaise Dressing II. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 teaspoon Colman's mustard. 

yo teaspoon salt. 14 teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespooa vinegar. 3 tablespoons oil. 



276 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Place all in chilled bowl. Beat very rapidly with 
Dover beater until all are well blended. Then add oil 
by the teaspoonful, with lemon juice from one-half of 
a lemon, until you have the amount you desire. With 
the first mixture you can make two (or even more) 
cupfuls of fine stifP Mayonnaise tihat will hold its 
shape. — Mrs. Edward Bogers' Recipe. 

Cream Mayonnaise. 

To Mayonnaise add one cup of whipped cream. 
It wants to be very stiff, and wants to be added to 
Mayonnaise just as you are preparing to serve. The 
point is always to keep the dressing stiff. 

Green Mayonnaise. 

Prepare same as Maj^onnaise, and color by using 
expressed juice of parsley and watercress, using twice 
as much cress as parsley. Place leaves in mortar or 
bowl, and pound until the leaves are well crushed. 
Place in cheesecloth and squeeze out the color and add 
to Mayonnaise. 

Red Mayonnaise. 

Rub lobster coral through a sieve, and add to May- 
onnaise, or tint with fruit red. 

SALADS. 

Dressed Lettuce. 

Wash dry and thoroughly chill a fine head of let- 
tuce. Place in salad-bowl in shape by placing outside 
leaves next bowl, and the tender heart leaves in the 
center. Serve with French dressing. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad. 

Cut tomatoes in halves crosswise, take out as many 
of the seeds as you can without spoiling the shape of 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 277 

the tomato, chill, drain and arrange on heart leaves 
of lettuce, forming a cup. Use a Mayonnaise dressing 
to garnish with, or French dressing. 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad. 

Eemove thick slices from each end of cucumber, 
pare and cut in thin slices, and lay in ice-water for 
half an hour. Peel small, firm tomatoes, and chill. 
Cut into quarter-inch slices, and lay alternate slices 
of tomatoes and cucumbers on a pretty leaf of lettuce, 
and serve with French dressing, with a little grated 
onion or onion juice added to it, or sprinkle the top 
with chives cut fine. 

Cucumber Cup with Lettuce. 

Use a short, thick cucumber, cut in quarters cross- 
ways. Remove centers from pieces, arrange on cups 
formed from leaves of head lettuce, and fill with cream 
dressing made with the whipped cream and lemon 
juice. Sprinkle with chopped nuts. 

Cucumber Salad to Serve w^ith Fish. 

Pare cucumber, cut lengthwise, and lay in ice-water 
for an hour. Lay fiat on platter and cut into thin slices 
without spoiling the original shape. Surround with 
lettuce cut in ribbon. Dress with French dressing. 
Serve wdth fish course. 

Water Cress. 
Clean, dr-ain and chill. Arrange in salad-bowl. 
Decorate with whites and yolks of eggs pres;sed through 
a potato-ricer. Serve with French dressing. 

Celery Salad. 

Wash, scrape and cut into bits rather small. Add 
half cup of nuts and dress with Mayonnaise or boiled 



278 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

cream dressing. You can use peanuts, walnuts or 
pecans. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Use a solid head of white or purple cabbage. Cut 
into halves, and with sharp knife shred very fine, 
place in ice-water, and let stand for one hour until 
very crisp. Drain by using a double cheesecloth, to 
press it in, freeing as much as is possible from the 
water. Add cup of fine-cut celery. Dress with boiled 
cream dressing. Serve in shell made from cabbage- 
head. Rest on bed of parsley. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Use cooked or canned asparagus. Arrange on let- 
tuce leaves, and garnish with finely cut ribbons from 
green and red sweet peppers. Dress with French 
dressing. 

Potato Salad. 

Use one quart of potatoes cut in balls or diced, and 
cook in salted water until they are done, but do not 
let them lose their shape. Dress with one-half teaspoon 
paprika, six tablespoons oil, two tablespoons grated 
onion or onion juice, four tablespoons vinegar, tossing 
all with each addition that is made. Add cup finely 
cut Gelery, and two tablespoons minced parsley. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. Garnish with beet root cooked and 
seasoned in vinegar, hard-boiled eggs, parsley and 
curled ends of celery. This is nice served with cold 
meat. 

Endive Salad. 

Use the center of well-bleached endive, cleaned and 
wiped dry. Dress with French dressing made with 
Tarragon vinegar. Garnish with radishes cut in slices. 



SAIiADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 219 

and yolks of hard-boiled eggs pressed through strainer, 
and whites cut in fine strips. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Select medium-sized tomatoes, plunge them into 
boiling water a moment until the skin can be removed. 
(A wire basket is best for this, as all are lifted from 
the water at once.) Peel them, remove the hard end, 
take out the seeds, and form cups. Sprinkle with salt, 
turn doAvn on plate, and place in ice-box to chill. Fill 
with equal quantities of celery and cucumbers cut into 
dice, and one-third as much English walnut meats. 
Mix all with enough Mayonnaise dressing to moisten. 
Fill tomato cup, serve on lettuce leaves, and garnish 
with curled celery. 

Salad a la Normandy. 

Pare and core five nice apples; musit have fine 
flavor. (The Baldwin is good.) Cut into Julian shapes 
(which are about the size of matches), and dress with 
oil, lemon juice, one cup whipped cream, salt and 
paprika. Serve on a bed of watercress. Sprinkle with 
minced English walnuts. 

Salad Solferino. 

Prepare same as potato salad, using equal quantities 
of pickled beets cut same shape as the potatoes. Use 
vinegar from the beets, and, instead of grating the 
onion, cut it in fine rings, and mix with salad, using 
a Bermuda onion. This was the salad Napoleon or- 
dered after the battle of Solferino. 

Russian Salad. 

Use one and one-half cups each of cold cooked po- 
tatoes, carroty, peas and beans. Marinate each, and 



280 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

place on lettuce leaves to form four sections. Mask 
each section with Mayonnaise. Garnish two sections 
with smoked salmon cut into small pieces, one with 
finely cut whites of hard-boiled eggs, and the remaining 
one with hard-boiled egg yolks forced through a strainer. 
Make lines of sprigs of parsley to outline the sections. 

Tomato Salad with Horseradish. 

Peel, chill, and cut crosswise twice good, solid to- 
matoes; they want to have as few seeds as possible. 
The Acme tomato is good for making salads. Arrange 
on lettuce leaves and dress with horseradish sauce. This 
is nice to serve with oysters. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

One quart of tomatoes stewed and strained.. Sea- 
son with salt, cayenne, powdered sugar, and add two 
tablespoons of granulated gelatine dissolved in hot 
water. Pour into small cups or dariole moulds just 
enough to serve one person. Unmould on leaves of let- 
tuce, and garnish with ]\Iayonnaise dressing. 

Cucumber Jelly. 

Grate enough cucumbers to make two cups full. 
Press through strainer to remove the seeds. Add one 
tablespoon of granulated gelatine soaked in one-half 
cup of cold water and dissolved in one-half cup of boil- 
ing water, one teaspoonful of onion juice, salt.and pep- 
per, two tablespoons of vinegar, and a little cayenne. 
Color with leaf green, strain and mould, chill, and 
serve with a tomato Maj^onnaise. The cucumber can be 
moulded so as to leave a well for the tomatoes, or you 
can scoop out the cucumber from the center and form 
one, using the jelly you scoop out to garnish the salad 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 281 

with. For tomato Mayonnaise, color the Mayonnaise 
with tomato puree. 

Egg Salad. 

Use six hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves lensrthwise. 
Remove the yolks. Put through a potato-ricer, season 
highly with mustard, salt and pepper, and moisten with 
olive oil until they can be formed into balls the size 
of the original yolk. Refill whites, and dress with 
French dressing, with onion juice added. 

Waldorf Salad. 

Use equal quantities of finely cut apples and crisp 
celery, mixed with one-third as many chopped nut 
meats. Moisten with a Mayonnaise dressing. Serve in 
cups made of red apples, by removing a piece from top, 
and scoop out center. Garnish with curled celery, and 
tops with slices of red apples cut the long ways and 
rubbed with piece of lemon to keep from discoloring. 

Grape Salad. 

Remove seed from white grapes and one-half cup 
English walnut meats, and pulp from one grape-fruit, 
and a few cherries. Dress with whipped cream sea- 
soned with juice from the grape-fruit, salt and paprika. 
Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with the cherries. 

Brazilian Salad. 

'Remove seeds from Malaga grapes cut in halves. 
Add equal amount of fresh pineapple cut in cubes and 
same amount of tender celery cut fine. Add one-half 
the quantity cf Brazil nuts broken in pieces. Mix 
thoroughly, and season with lemon juice and whipped 
cream. 



282 SCIENTIFIC COOKING, 

Banana Salad. 

Pare bananas, and scrape off all the stringy sub- 
stance. Cut lengthwise into four strips, and cut the 
strips into cubes. Dress immediately with a French 
dressing, with plenty of paprika. Lemon juice is the 
best acid for the banana salad. Serve on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with shredded red and green sweet pep- 
pers. This is a fine salad to serve with veal. 

Orange Salad for Duck. 

Use three sour oranges. Peel and cut in rounds; 
remove all core and white outside. Arrange on flat 
salad-dish, laying one round to overlap the other just 
a little. Make egg balls with the hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs about as large as a partridge egg, and stone some 
olives — about as many as you have egg balls — and ar- 
range in center of the platter. Sprinkle finely chopped 
nuts over all, and pour on good French dressing, using 
lemon juice for the acid. Serve this with the game 
course, garnished with shredded lettuce and pimentoes. 

Sardine Salad. 

Remove skin and bones from sardines, and mix 
with mashed yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Moisten with 
Mayonnaise, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Place a 
teaspoonful of Mayonnaise on each service, and dash 
of paprika on Mayonnaise. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber Salad. 

Use a pair of sweetbreads that have been cooked 
slowly for twenty-five minutes. Cut into cubes. Mix 
with equal amount of cucumbers cut into dice. Season 
with French dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves or 
in cups made from the cucumbers, and put on lettuce 
leaf. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 283 

Shrimp Salad. 

Remove shrimps from can, cover with ice-water, and 
let them stand half an hour. Drain, and dry them on 
a towel by patting with the hand. Remove intestinal 
vein that extends the entire length of the shrimp. Break 
into pieces all but a few of the finest, which you re- 
serve for the garnish. Add one cup of tender celery 
cut into small pieces. Moisten with Mayonnaise dress- 
ing, arrange on nests of leaves from a fine head of let- 
tuce, and put a teaspoon of Mayonnaise on each nest. 
Lay one of the reserved shrimps on top of the Mayon- 
naise, with some capers and a few finely chopped nuts. 

Lobster Salad. 

Remove meat from shell cut into cubes, and mari- 
nate with French dressing. Reserve the lobster claws 
for garnish. Add one cup of very finely cut celery, 
using the tender stalks. Mix with a small quantity of 
your Mayonnaise, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Add 
a teaspoonful of Mayonnaise to each service, and 
sprinkle with lobster coral pressed through a fine sieve. 
-Garnish mth. the small lobster claws. 

Crab Salad in Tomatoes. 

Use six medium-sized tomatoes as nearly alike as 
possible. Plunge into boiling water. Peel, cut piece 
from stem end, and scoop out all seeds. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, lay on plate so they" will drain, and 
place in cool place. Remove the meat from hard-shell 
crabs; there should be one and one-half cups. Add 
same amount of tender celery cut into small pieces, 
and moisten with Mayonnaise. Wipe the tomato cups 
and fill with the mixture. Serve on lettuce leaves, and 
garnish with Qurled celery and olives. 



284 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Oyster Salad. 

Parboil one pint of oj^sters, drain, chill, and remove 
the tough muscles. Use three grape-fruits cut in halves 
with small pointed knife, making the edges of each 
half in points. Kemove the pulp, and drain on sieve. 
Add the grape-fruit pulp to oysters, and season with 
four tablespoons of tomato catsup, ten drops of Tabasco 
sauce, two tablespoons of lemon juice, one tablespoon of 
grated horseradish, one-half cup of whipped cream, one 
teaspoon of powdered sugar. Mix all well, and add 
to oysters and grape-fruit. Refill the grape-fruit cup, 
and rest on lettuce leaves. Garnish with shredded let- 
tuce and red radishes cut in the shape of lilies. 

Chicken Salad. 

Use cold boiled or roasted fowl cut into cubes and 
marinated in French dressing. Add equal quantity of 
tender celery (if the large stalks are used, they must 
be scraped) cut into small pieces. Moisten with Mayon- 
naise, or a good cream dressing. Mayonnaise preferred. 
Line salad-bowl with heart leaves of lettuce, and turn 
in the salad mixture, mounding it in center. Garnish 
with yolks of hard-boiled eggs forced through potato- 
ricer, and a little dressing added to make them stick 
together, and form them into small balls. Cut the 
whites into rounds, rest each ball on a round of the 
white, and sprinkle with paprika. 

Fish Salad with Cucumbers. 

Season two cups of cold flaked halibut, haddock or 
white lake fish with salt, pepper, lemon juice and a 
little oil. Let it stand for at least an hour. Drain well, 
and add cucumbers cut into cubes. Dress with whipped 
cream to which have been added lemon juice, two table- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 285 

spoons of grated cucumber, one teaspoon of onion juice, 
and paprika. Serve on lettuce leaves with slices of 
cucumber to garnish. 

Chicken and Sweetbread Salad. 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads twenty minutes. 
Drain, cool, and cut into cubes. Mix with an equal 
amount of cooked fowl cut into cubes. Mix and mari- 
nate Vvith French dressing. Add one cup finely cut 
celery and one-half cup pecan-nuts cut fine. Moisten 
with cream or Mayonnaise dressing. Line salad-bowl 
with heart leaves of lettuce, and mound the salad in 
center. Garnish with small cucumber pickle cut in 
fancy shapes. 

Cheese Salad. 

Arrange a fine head of lettuce in salad-bowl in the 
shape it was before washing, and sprinkle thickly with 
Edam or pineapple cheese and some chopped nuts. 
Pour over all a French dressing, with plenty of oil and 
lemon juice. 

Pimento Salad. 

Use one small can of shrimp and three hard-boiled 
eggs. Chop eggs fine, and break shrimp in small pieces. 
Moisten with French dressing. Fill canned pimentoes 
with the salad, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Bermuda Onion Salad. 

Cut a Bermuda onion in half the long way, and slice 
very thin, and place in ice-water for one hour. Drain 
and dry, and dress generously with oil until thoroughly 
coated. Add salt, pepper and paprika, and lastly one 
tablespoon of Tarragon vinegar and one tablespoon of 
cider vinegar. Serve on lettuce leaves, with boiled or 
cold meats of. any kind. 



286 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER XXX. 

CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Cheese Canapes 1. 

Toast strips or circular pieces of bread freed from 
erust. Sprinkle thickly with grated cheese seasoned 
with salt and cayenne. Place on a shallow pan or sheet, 
and place in oven until cheese is melted, and serve at 
once. 

Cheese and Mustard Canapes- 
Spread strip of bread browned in butter, with mixed 
mustard (the French is the best), and sprinkle thickly 
with grated cream cheese, and sprinkle over all plenty 
of finely chopped egg whites and parsley minced. 

Anchovy Canapes. 

Spread circular pieces of toasted bread with anchovy 
butter, and chop separately whites and yolks of hard- 
cooked eggs. Cover canapes in sections with alternate 
yolks and whites of the eggs, making two divisions with 
the anchovies split in two lengthwise. 

Sardine Canapes. 

Spread strips of bread browned in frying-pan in 
butter, with the sardine paste. Prepare the paste by 
removing the skin and bone from the sardine and add- 
ing a small quantity of creamed butter. Season with 
AYorcestershire sauce, cayenne and a little lemon juice. 
Garnish center of each with olive with stone removed 
and cavity filled with the sardine mixture. Form bor- 
der round each with minced whites and yolks of eggs. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 287 

Caviare Canapes- 
Toast rounds of bread, and place on top of each 
round a ring cut from hard-boiled white of egg. Fill 
the rings with caviare, and form border round all with 
finely chopped cucumber mixed with the strained yolks 
of eggs. Mix the cucumber with enough French dress- 
ing to season before forming border. 

Boston brown bread can be used for the above 
canapes, if preferred. 

Lobster Canapes. 

Use pieces of bread cut into diamond shapes about 
one-fourth inch thick. Spread with butter and brown 
in oven. Spread with a thin layer of Mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and on top of this spread a layer of lobster meat 
pounded fine and mixed with yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 
seasoned with salt and paprika, and moistened with a 
tablespoon of thick cream. Spread and serve. 

There is a great variety of fancy garnishing used 
for canapes, but you can get these only in cafes and 
fancy hotel cooking. I am only giving you the plainer 
canapes. 

SANDWICHES. 

There is nothing so fascinating to a real hungry 
person as a plate of sandwiches, wnth the bread cut 
so thin you can see the color of the filling through. The 
Earl of Sandwich is greatl}^ to be thanked for having 
invented this dainty dish, which has immortalized him, 
for we shall certainly always serve "sandwiches" made 
of no end of things that wnll combine. The Earl's was 
a piece of meat between two pieces of bread. 

Bread for sandwiches cuts better when a day old. 
Cut slices as thin as possible, and remove all crusts. 



288 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

If butter is used, cream the butter, and spread the bread 
before cutting from the loaf. Sandwiches prepared be- 
fore using can be kept fresh by wrapping in damp nap- 
kin, and kept in a cool place. Serve sandwiches piled 
on plate covered with a doily. 

Rolled Bread. 

Use for this, fresh, warm bread cut very thin with 
a sharp knife. Spread with creamed butter, and tie 
each one with baby ribbon to keep them in shape. They 
want to be served at once to have the ribbon in condition. 

Bread and Butter Folds. 

Cut slices from loaf as thin and even as possible. 
Spread with creamed butter. Remove crusts, put to- 
gether in pairs, and cut into oblongs, squares or tri- 
angles, as the taste suggests. Any bread you like can 
be used for these folds. The entire wheat, Graham and 
brown breads are all fine. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

For these use hard-boiled eggs. Chop the whites 
fine, and press the yolks through a potato-ricer. Mix 
whites and yolks, season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with JMayonnaise or cream dressing. Butter 
slices of bread and spread the mixture between. Press 
each piece as you place on top. 

Chopped Ham Sandwiches. 

Prepare bread as for bread and butter folds, and 
spread with finely chopped cold boiled ham, moistened 
with cream or Mayonnaise dressing. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 289 

Chicken Sandwiches. 

Use cold boiled chicken moistened with Mayonnaise; 
butter the bread with Mayonnaise, and lay a leaf ot 
lettuce on top after spreading with the chicken mix- 
ture. Have lettuce a little larger than the bread, so the 
green will show wdien top is pressed on. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Remove skin and bones, and mash to fine paste. Add 
equal amount of yolks of hard-boiled eggs pressed 
through a sieve, and season with lemon juice, salt and 
cayenne. Moisten with olive oil. Spread between slices 
of buttered bread. 

Lobster Sandwiches. 

Mince lobster meat very fine, and add to it an equal 
amount of hard-boiled yolks of eggs pressed through 
a potato-ricer. Season with lemon juice, made mus- 
tard, cayenne and salt, and moisten with cream dress- 
ing. Spread on a large leaf of French curly lettuce, 
roll and tie with ribbon. Serve with brown bread folds. 

Oyster Sandwiches. 

Arrange fried oysters on c^^isp leaves of lettuce, 
allowing one leaf and two oysttM-s to each sandwich. 
Use Graham bread buttered and j)repared same as any 
sandwich. A little horseradish added to the butter as 
you cream it makes a nice relish with the oyster. 

Ginger Sandwiches. 

Prepare bread same as for any sandwich, and lay 
thin slices of Canton ginger on bread. Press on top. 



290 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Japanese Sandwich. 

Cook figs until skins are tender. Drain and cool. 
Chop very fine and add an equal amount of ground 
nuts. Prepare bread same as for any sandwich, and 
spread with fruit and nut mixture. Serve at ''Japanese 
tea." 

Orange Sandw^iches. 

For this purpose use entire wheat bread, twenty-four 
hours old. Spread evenly with creamed butter, then 
with orange marmalade and some finely minced nuts 
sprinkled on the marmalade, and top pressed on. 

Cottage Cheese and Cress Sandwiches. 

Chop cress and mix with cheese. Season with salt 
and paprika. Moisten with thick cream. 



GINGERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS. 291 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

GINGERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread. 

1 cup molasses. IVo teaspoons soda. 

1 cup sour milk or cream. 2 teaspoons ginger. 

2% cups flour. lo teaspoon salt. 

% cup melted butter. 

Mix together socIRj sour milk and molasses. Add 
together all the dry ingredients, stirring until well 
mixed. Add milk and molasses, beat vigorously for a 
few moments, and turn into shallow pans. Bake in 
moderate oven twenty-five to thirty minutes. Nice 
served hot. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread. 

1 cup molasses. 1 egg. 

!/• cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

11^ teaspoons soda. 2 teaspoons ginger. 

y2 cup sour milk. Vo teaspoon salt. 

Put butter and molasses in saucepan, and cook until 
boiling-point is reached. Remove from fire, add soda, 
and beat vigorously. Then add milk, egg beaten until 
light, and the flour, ginger and salt mixed well together. 
Bake for fifteen minutes in shallow tin pans, filling 
pans two-thirds full. 

Sugar Gingerbread. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. IV2 teaspoons ginger. 
2 teaspoons baking- % cup thin cream. 

powder. V^ teaspoon salt. 



292 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beat eggs until light, without separating. Add 
sugar gradually. Mix dry ingredients well, and add 
cream and dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly, turn into 
buttered muffin-tins, and bake in moderate oven. It 
will take about twenty-five minutes. Fill tins about 
half full. 

Ginger Snaps. 

1 cup molasses. % teaspoon soda. 

% cup butter. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

314 cups ftour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Heat molasses to boiling-point, and pour over the 
shortening. Mix dry ingredients, and add to molasses 
and butter. Chill, and turn one-third of the mixture 
onto well-floured board. Roll as thin as possible; shape 
with round cutter dipped in flour. Place near together 
on buttered tins, and bake in moderate oven. Gather 
up trimming, and with more of the mixture continue 
rolling and baking until all are done. Keep dough 
cool while baking. 

Vanilla Wafers. 

% cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoons cream. 

2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Cream butter, and add sugar slowly, eggs well 
iDcaten, cream and vanilla. Mix dry ingredients, and 
add to first mixture. Roll, shape, and bake same as 
i^inger snaps. 

Hermits. 

Ys cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup sugar. ¥2 cup raisins cut into pieces. 

1 egg. 5^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

2 tablespoons cream. \i teaspoon mace. 
1% cups flour. A grating nutmeg. 



GINGERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS. 293 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and then the raisins. 
Mix dry ino^redients and add to first mixture. Roll a 
little thicker than for vanilla wafers. Shape and bake 
same as vanilla wafers. 

Almond Cookies. 

% cup butter. Grated rind Vo lemon. 

2 ^SSs. 3 tablespoons brandy. 

M: cup almonds, blanched 2^4 cups flour. 

and chopped fine. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup sugar. 14 teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter and add sugar, eggs well beaten, 
almonds, brandy, flour and baking-powder (if liked, 
a little cinnamon and nutmeg can be added). Roll 
mixture to one-quarter inch in thickness. Shape with 
cutter dipped in flour. Bake in slow oven. All small 
cakes cook more evenly when placed on buttered sheets, 
especially in cooking with gas. 

Chocolate Cookies. 

1/2 cup butter. 2 ounces Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

'^ ^SSs. 14 cup milk or cream. 

21/0 cups flour. y^ teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and eggs beaten 
until light, without separating, chocolate grated. Add 
flour and baking-powder well mixed, an^l milk, alter- 
nately. Chill, roll very thin, and shape vrith round cut- 
ter. Place on buttered tin sheets, and bake in moderate 
oven. 

Nut Cookies. 

2 egg yolks. Whites 2 eggs. 

1 cup light brown sugar. G tablespoons flour. 
1 cup chopped nuts. 1 teaspoon baking-powder. 

Pinch salt. 



294 SCIENTIFIC COOKING, 

Beat yolks until lemon color, and add sugar, nut 
meats, whites of eggs beaten stitl:. Hour, baking-powder 
and salt, mixed. Drop from tip of the spoon onto but- 
tered sheet. Spread, and bake in slow oven. 

Sand Tarts. 

Yo cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

1 egg. Blanched almonds. 

1% cups flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and egg well beaten. 
Then add Hour mixed with baking-powder. Chill, toss 
on well-tloured board, using half the mixture at a 
rolling, and roll to one-eighth inch thick. Shape with 
doughnut-cutter, and brush over with white of egg and 
sugar. Shred almonds, and arrange at equal distances 
round the tart. Place on buttered sheets, and bake 
in slow oven. 

Rolled Wafers. 

% cup butter. Vi cup milk. 

^2 cup powdered sugar. % cup bread flour. 

1/3 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, milk drop by drop, 
then the flour and flavoring. Invert a dripping-pan, 
butter, and with a broad-bladed knife spread the mix- 
ture very thin. Crease in squares three inches in size, 
and bake in slow oven until a delicate brown. Remove, 
and roll while warm in cornucopia or tubular shape, 
and tie with narrow ribbon. 

Nut Macaroons. 

Whites 2 eggs. 2 cups pecan-nuts, finely 

2 cups brown sugar. chopped 

Vi teaspoon salt. 



GINGERBREAD COOKIES AND WAFERS. 295 

Beat whites of eggs until stiflP; add gradually the 
sugar, beating all the while. Fold in the finely chopped 
nut meats, sprinkled with the salt. Drop from tip of 
the spoon on buttered sheets of paper one inch apart. 
Bake in moderate oven until brown. 

Seed Cake. 

Use recipe for cocoanut cookies, using one table- 
spoonful of caraway seed instead of the cocoanut. 



296 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
CAKES. 

THERE are two kinds of cake mixtures, and the 
numerous varieties of cake all over the world 
come under one of these two heads — cakes with butter 
and cakes without butter. Those without butter include 
all the sponge-cake family, while those with butter in- 
clude the cup and pound cake mixtures. In cake- 
making we want good material, correct measuring, 
knowledge of how to combine the ingredients, and 
proper pans, properly prepared, and, above all, an 
oven with heat so regulated that the cake will be a 
success, for the best prepared cake can be entirely 
spoiled in the baking. The material required is good 
butter, fine granulated sugar, fresh eggs and pastry 
flour. Too much flour will cause the cake to burst on 
top ; too little will cause it to fall. 

In cake-baking we make varieties by difl:'erent icmg, 
fruits, nuts, etc, more than we do in the different bat- 
ters we make them of. If you have a good recipe for 
a layer cake, you can make no end of different cakes 
by using different frostings, fruits, nuts, and different 
ways of arranging them. 

To Mix Sponge Cake. 

Prepare your pans and set aside. Separate eggs, 
putting yolks in mixing-bowl and w^hites on platter. 
Measure sugar, sift and measure flour, and add baking- 
powder to flour. You can sift or stir thoroughly, grate 



CAKES. 297 

rind and add juice of lemon, or get ready to hand 
whatever flavor you intend to use. If hot water is to 
be used, see to it that there is some on stove before 
beginning- the work of putting the cake .together. Be- 
gin by first beating whites until stiff and dry, then 
beat yolk until thick and lemon color, adding the sugar 
as you beat. Add juice and rind of the lemon, the 
boiling water, then fold in the beaten whites and the 
flour. Fold and cut until flour and eggs are well in- 
corporated, but no longer. Turn into your prepared 
pans, and place in oven. 

To ^Iix Butter Cakes. — Use an earthen bowl, if 
possible, for the mixing of butter cakes, and a wooden 
spoon. The spoon without the slits is preferred. Meas- 
ure the dry ingredients, flour, baking-powder, sugar 
and butter, and separate the eggs. If the butter is 
hard, pour some boiling water in the mixing-bowl and 
let it stand for a few moments. Turn out and put the 
butter in at once. Cut into small pieces, and let it 
stand for a few moments to soften before creaming. 
Stir butter until soft and very creamy, then add sugar- 
slowly and continue the stirring. Separate the eggs, 
and if yolks are to be used, beat them until thick, and 
whites until stiff and dry. Add and fold in yolks, then 
whites, folding lightly, then the flour in same way. 
When all ingredients are added, beat vigorously for a 
few moments, and turn into pans that have been pre- 
pared, by buttering and lining with paraffin paper. 

If this method is used in cake-making, the work is 
quickly accomplished, and one measure-cup will answer 
for all, by first measuring flour, sugar, butter, and 
then the milk or Avater, whichever is to be used. A 
fine-grained cake is made by long beating, and you 
must use care -to have the butter and sugar well creamed^ 



298 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

for this is the foundation of the cake. The sugar wants 
to be dissolved in the butter. Never stir cake after 
the final beating. 

Fruit, when added to cake, is usually floured to 
prevent its settling to the bottom. This precaution is 
not necessary if added directly after the sugar, which 
is usually done in the case of dark fruit-cake. Citron 
is first cut into slices, then into strips, floured and put 
in between layers of the cake mixture. Raisins are 
cleaned, seeded and cut (not chopped). The raisins 
and currants come in packages cleaned and ready for 
use. 

To Butter and Fill Pans.t— Put butter in small 
saucepan, and place on warm part of range where it 
will melt and salt settle to bottom. Use soft piece of 
paper, and rub the pan so that every part will be well 
buttered. Line with soft paper (paraffin is the best) ; 
this protects bottom of cake in case oven is a little hot, 
and makes it come out of pan easily, and gives a nice 
surface for the frosting. In lining only cover the bot- 
tom of pan; it is not necessary to butter paper if pan 
is well buttered ; as soon as the heat of the oven strikes 
it, the butter strikes right through the paper. Fill 
pans two-thirds full of the cake mixture, and draw the 
dough well to the sides and corners, leaving a slight 
depression in center; this will give a flat top. 

To Bake Cake. — The baking of cake is as impor- 
tant as the mixing, and the best of cake is often spoiled 
in the baking. The gas stove is the way to be sure of 
your cake, as the cook can control the heat to any de- 
gree she desires, if she is at all experienced. The oven 
thermometer has not as yet proved a success, while the 
hand of an experienced cook is a never-failing guide. 

In bakinof cake a good wav to do is to divide the 



CAKES. 299 

time required to bake the cakes into quarters. During 
the first quarter it begins to rise; during the second 
it continues rising and begins to brown ; the third quar- 
ter it continues browning: the fourth quarter it finishes 
browning and shrinks from sides of pans. Look at cake 
often during the baking, opening and closing door care- 
fully, so as not to jar the cake. Pound cake is tested 
by pressing the finger lightly on top. If cake feels 
firm to touch and the finger leaves no indentation, the 
cake is done, and it will be safe to remove it from the 
oven. If your oven is too slow, the cake will run over 
the sides of pans and be coarse-grained; on the other 
hand, should the oven be too hot, the cake will crust 
before it has fully risen, and the continued rising will 
cause it to crack on top and w^ill make an unsightly 
loaf. This will also occur if there is too much flour. 
For the family of small and layer cakes the oven wants 
to be hotter. 

If cakes are to be frosted, have frosting ready. 
"When cakes are done baking, take from oven, remove 
from pan, and rest on piece of brown paper. Turn 
out each layer as you are ready, and frost. Turn loaf 
cakes out on wire cake-rest, and cool. The cake being 
a little warm does not make any difference in the 
frosting, but it does not have to be hot, but in most 
cases 1 find the warm cake is the best. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

6 egg whites and yolKs, Grated juice and rind 

beaten separately. i{. lemon. 

2 cups sugar. M>, cup boiling water. 

2 cups Hour. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Pinch salt. 

Have eggs cold. Separate ; place yolks in mixing- 
bowl and whites on platter. Measure flour and baking- 



300 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

powder; mix well. Measure sugar, grate the thin out- 
side of lemon, and add juice to it. Have pans but- 
tered and lined. Beat whites until stiff and dry, and 
yolks until thick and lemon color. Add lemon juice 
and rind, then the third cup of boiling water. Fold in 
the whites, then the flour. Fold and beat until well 
incorporated. Turn into pan and bake in moderate 
oven. This is good for loaf or for sponge sheets, to 
be roiled or cut into fancy shapes. If a jelly roll is to 
be made, moisten towel and turn cake on it. Spread 
with jell}^ and roll at once while still warm. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs, yolks and whites 2 teaspoons baking-powder, 

beaten separately. 1 teaspoon grated rind of 

1 cup sugar. • lemon. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch, Pinch salt. 

and flour to finish fill- 3 tablespoons cold water, 
ing the cup. 

Beat whites until stiff and dry, and yolks until 
thick and lemon color. Add sugar and beat again. 
Then add water and grated lemon peel. Fold in whites 
of eggs, then the flour, and cornstarch and baking- 
powder sifted together. ]\Iix all together thoroughly 
by folding. Turn into buttered and lined pans. Bake 
thirty minutes. 

Angel Food. 

1 cup whites of eggs. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

I'^i cups sugar. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat \^hites until frothy, add cream of tartar, and 
continue beating until stiff and dry. Then add sugar 
^adually. Fold in flour and salt, and add vanilla. 
Turn into a square or round pan without buttering. 



CAKES. 301 

and bake for forty to fifty minutes in slow oven. The 
cake must not begin to brown until it has been in oven 
for twenty-five minutes; by this time it will have raised 
to its full height. The point in the angel food is in 
the baking, but with the gas cooking of the present day 
this can be accomplished perfectly. In preparing the 
flour for angel food I only sift once, as I consider it 
time wasted to sift oftener. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Whites 10 eggs. 1 teaspoon grated rind of 

liA cups powdered sugar. lemon. 

Yolks 7 eggs. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Beat whites until frothy, add cream of tartar, and 
continue beating until stiff and dry. Add the grated 
rind of the lemon, add sugar, folding in lightly, then 
yolks beaten until thick and lemon color; then the flour. 
Bake in angel food pan for forty minutes in slow oven, 
allowing the first fifteen minutes for the rising. Cool 
cake with pan reversed, same as angel food. 

Lady=fingers. 

Whites 3 eggs. ^b cup powdered sugar. 

Yolks 2 eggs. i{« cup flour. 

\^ teaspoon vanilla. Pinch salt. 

Beat whites until stifl: and dry, add sugar gradually, 
and continue beating. Then add yolks beaten until 
very thick. iVdd flavoring, and fold in flour and salt, 
well mixed. Then, with pastry bag and tube, shape into 
four and one-half mches long and one inch wide, mak- 
ing them narrow in the center on a tin sheet, covered 
with unbuttered paper. Sprinkle Avith powdered su^ar, 
and bake eight minutes in rather moderate oven. Ke- 
move with broad, thin-bladed knife. 



302 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Sponge Drops. 

Use lady-finger mixture, and drop from point of 
spoon on tin sheet covered with paper. Sprinkle with, 
powdered sugar and bake same as lady-fingerj. Two 
can be put together by using whites of eggs while they 
are a little warm. 

Jelly Roll. 

3 eggs. 1 rounding teaspoon baking- 
1 cup sugar. powder. 

1 tablespoon water. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 cup flour. Pinch salt. 

Separate eggs, bea.t whites until stiff and dry, and 
yolks until thick and lemon color. Add sugar to yolks, 
and continue beating, then add the water, then the but- 
ter, then the beaten whites, then the flour with baking- 
powder well mixed. Fold and beat until all is well 
blended, and turn into a buttered and papered pan, 
spreading evenly on the bottom, using care not to have 
the cake too thick when it comes out. Turn onto a 
cloth slightly dampened or paper sprinkled with pow- 
dered sugar. Cut a strip from edge and spread with 
jelly that has been warmed and beaten to a consistency 
to spread easily, and roll. After rolling roll, cloth or 
paper should remain around roll untill well shaped be- 
fore removing. Jam can be used instead of the jelly. 
A marmalade made of figs and raisins, with lemon juice 
added, is fine for this roll, and is good food for children. 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTEE. 303 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 
CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 

One=egg Cake. 

^4 cup butter. 1 egg. 

% cup sugar. IV2 cups flour. 

1/; cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Cream butter and add sugar gradually, then the 
milk with two tablespoons of flour, next the egg well 
beaten, then the flour with baking-powder well mixed 
with it. Bake thirty minutes in shallow pan, and 
cover with cold orange or lemon frosting, or serve cut 
into squares as a plain cake. In cooking in high alti- 
tudes, use less butter and more flour and eggs, espe- 
cially in baking loaf cakes; but cakes baked in layers 
can be made richer. 

Rocky Mountain Cake. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
14 cup butter. 1^ cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 3 eggs. 

y± teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter and add sugar slowly, and stir until 
well creamed, then add milk with two tablespoons of 
flour, then yolks of eggs well beaten, then whites beaten 
until stifle, then flour W'ith baking-powder and salt. 
Beat thoroughly, and bake in loaf or in two layers, and 
put together with orange frosting. 



304 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Orange Cake. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking- 

1 cup sugar. powder. 
% cup milk. Pinch salt. 

2 cups flour. 2 eggs well beaten. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and continue stir- 
ring. Add milk, with two tablespoons of flour, then 
the eggs beaten until very light, without separating; 
next the flour, with baking-powder and salt mixed well 
together. Bake in two square layer pans, fill with 
orange filling, and cover with orange frosting. 

Orange Filling. — One-half cup sugar, two and one- 
half tablespoons flour, grated rind from half an orange, 
one-fourth cup orange juice, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
yolks of two eggs slightly beaten, and a small piece of 
butter. Mix all, and cook in double boiler until thick. 

ORx\nge Frosting. — Grated rind of one orange, with 
two tablespoons of orange juice, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one teaspoon of good brandy, yolk of one egg. 
Beat egg until light and thick; add brandy, then the 
orange juice and grated rind and lemon juice. Beat 
in confectioners' sugar until stiff enough to spread. 

Delicate White Cake. 

Whites 4 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

Vo cup butter. 2 cups flour, sifted. 

y2 cup water. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Pinch salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating all the 
while, then add the water slowly, with two tablespoons 
of flour. Fold in the well-beaten whites of eggs, then 
add the remaining two cups of flour with baking- 
powder mixed with it. Fold until well mixed, and 
beat hard for a moment, and turn into buttered and 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 305 

papered pans (square ones preferred), and place in 
moderate oven and bake until cake leaves side of pans. 
Put together with opera caramel frosting. As the cara- 
mel cools and gets hard, mark top with thread where 
it is to be cut. This prevents the icing from breaking 
as you cut the cake. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 eggs. I/O cup milk. 

14 cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1^2 cups flour. 2 ounces grated chocolate. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Separate eggs, beat whites until stiff and dry, and 
add yolks until thick. Cream butter, add sugar slowly, 
and yolks of the beaten eggs. Add milk and flour mixed 
with the baking-powder and whites of eggs, then the 
grated chocolate and vanilla. Bake in buttered and 
papered pan for thirty-five minutes. Cover with boiled 
frosting flavored with vanilla. 

DeviFs Food. 

Vj cup butter. 214 cups flour. 

2 cups sugar. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

4 eggs. 2 squares Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Separate eggs, beat whites until stiff and yolks until 
thick. Cream butter, and add one cup of the sugar. 
Add the remaining sugar to the beaten yolks, combine 
the mixture, and add the milk alternately with the 
flour and baking-powder mixed; then the beaten whites 
of the eggs, chocolate melted and vanilla. Bake forty- 
five minutes in angel food cake-pan, and cover with 
white mountain icing. 



306 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake. 

Follow rule for chocolate cake, and as soon as cake 
is taken from oven, having bottom up, cover with marsh- 
mallows pulled open with the fingers, but do not pull 
them entirely apart. Th-e soft inside of the marsh- 
mallow will adhere to the warm surface of the cake, 
and pour over all a chocolate frosting flavored with 
vanilla^. 

Orange Puffs. 

Va cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1 cup sugar. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1 whole egg. 

1/3 cup milk. Grated rind V2 orange. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and beat all the 
while. When very creamy add milk a little at a time, 
and the eggs beaten very light without separating, then 
the grated orange peel, and, lastly, the flour and baking- 
powder mixed together. Ice tops with orange frosting. 

Lemon Queens. 

3/2 cup butter. Yolks 4 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups flour. 

Grated rind 1 lemon. ^^ teaspoon soda. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. Whites 4 eggs. 
Pinch salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and continue beat- 
ing. Then add the grated rind of the lemon with the 
juice, then the yolks of eggs well beaten^ then the flour 
with soda mixed with it, then the whites beaten very 
stifl: and dry. Bake in small tins until done, turn out, 
and frost bottom with white mountain frosting. 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 307 



Pound Cake. 

1 pound butter. 10 eggs, whites and yolks 

1 pound sugar. beaten separately. 

1 pound flour. i{.> teaspoon mace. 

% cup brandy. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating ^Yell be- 
tween each addition. AVhen very light and creamy, add 
yolks beaten until thick and lemon color, then the 
brandy and mace, then the whites of eggs beaten stiff 
and drj", then the flour. Beat very hard for a few 
moments. Bake in deep pan one hour and a quarter in 
slow^ oven, or, if wanted for fancy ornamental cake, 
bake in layer cake-pans that have been buttered and 
lined with paper. Any pan in which pound cake is 
baked wants to be buttered and lined. The sheets of 
pound cake are cut into fancy shapes with small cutters, 
and glazed with egg and pow^lered sugar, and iced 
w^ith fancy icings tinted with coloring. 

Wedding Cake. 

1 pound butter. i/4 teaspoon cloves. 

1 pound sugar. 3 pounds raisins. 

1 pound flour. 3 pounds currants. 

12 eggs. 1 pound citron, cut fine. 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. 1 pound figs, chopped. 
1/. teaspoon allspice. V3 cup brandy. 

1 teaspoon nutmeg. % cup wine. 

1 teaspoon mace. 14 cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Creani butter, add sugar, and beat thoroughly. 
Separate eggs, beat yolks until lemon color and whites 
until stiff and dry, and add to first mixture. Add flour 
(excepting one-third cup to dredge the fruit) mixed 
and sifted with the spices and soda, then add the 



308 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

brandy, molasses and wine; then add the fruit, except 
the sliced citron, which is put in layers as you fill the 
pans. When all is in except the citron, beat very hard 
for a few moments. Put into brick-shaped pans, add- 
ing the citron. Steam same as fruit-cake. This cake 
keeps any length of time. 

Perfection Cake. 

y^ cup butter. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

\y^ cups sugar. Yolks 4 eggs. 

1/2. cup cold water. Whites 4 eggs. 

ii/2 cups flour. % cup almonds, blanched 
'V2 cup cornstarch. and shredded. 

Pinch salt in eggs. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and beat until very 
light. Add water, mix and sift flour, baking-powder 
and cornstarch. Add yolks of eggs beaten very light, 
then whites beaten stiff and dry, then the flour, corn- 
starch and baking-powder. Put into buttered pans 
lined with paper, sprinkle with the shredded almonds 
and powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for 
thirty-flve or forty minutes. This will make two 
squares, and is a very delicate cake. 

Citron Cake. 

Vs cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons brandy. 

3 eggs. 1% cups citron, cut thin 

yo cup water. and shredded. 

2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and beat well. 
Then add beaten yolks of eggs, water, whites beaten 
stiff, flour with baking-powder, then the brandy and 
citron. Bake in loaf. 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 309 

Nut Cakes. 

Vii pound English walnut 1(2 teaspoon baking-powder. 

meats, chopped fine. 1 saltspoon salt. 

Yj pound brown sugar. % cup flour. 

3 whites of eggs. 

Pound nut meats and mix with flour. Beat egg 
whites until stiff and yolks until lemon color and thick. 
Drop on tin sheet on buttered paper, allowing table- 
spoonful to each cake. 

Gold Cake. 

1/; cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup water. Yolks G eggs. 

Grated rind V^ orange. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, water little at a 
time, and stir in two tablespoons of the flour. Then 
add the yolks beaten until thick and light, then the 
orange peel and flour, and beat hard for a few moments. 
Bake in loaves or layers. If baked in loaves, sliced 
citron is nice in it. 

My Lady Baltimore. 

1^ cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. Whites 4 eggs. 

1/. cup water. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Bitter almond to flavor. 

Follow directions for mixing white cake, and bake 
in two square layer pans buttered and papered. 

Filling for Lady Baltimore Cake. 

2 cups of granulated Whites 2 eggs, beaten 
sugar. until stiff and dry. 

14 cup water. V^ cup chopped nut meats. 

% teaspoon cream of V2 cup chopped raisins. 

tartar. 14 pound candied cherries, 
% cup chopped figs. cut in halves. 



310 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Add cream of tartar to sug^ar, and stir; then add 
water and stir again, so sugar will not adhere to bot- 
tom of saucepan. Place on hot part of range and cook 
until it threads. Remove at once and pour slowly on 
the beaten whites of eggs. Beat until cool and it will 
spread nicely. Add fruit and nuts to enough of the 
icing to spread between the layers. Cover top and sides 
with remaining icing, and dot in lines on top and sides, 
with the candied cherries. 

Ribbon Cake, 

Use rule for Lady Baltimore, and divide batter 
when finished into two parts. Color one-half a pale 
lavender and the other a delicate pink with Burnet's 
colorings, using the damask rose for the pink, and 
always be careful in coloring food not to get color too 
deep. Frost this cake with lemon frosting. 

Cream Cakes. 

1/2 cup butter. 4 eggs. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 cup flour. 

Place water and butter in saucepan on hot part of 
the range. As soon as boiling-point is reached, add 
flour all at once and stir rapidly until well mixed. 
Remove from fire and add unbeaten eggs, beating be- 
tween each addition until well mixed and blended. 
Drop by spoonfuls on well-buttered sheets, allowing 
one and one-half inches between. Shape with spoon; 
have as nearly circular as possible. Have the mixture 
slightly piled in the center. Bake in moderate oven for 
about twenty-five minutes, or it may require thirty, ac- 
cording to heat of oven. With a pointed, sharp knife 
make a cut large enough to admit of filling. Fill with 
cream filling flavored with vanilla. The above amount 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 311 

will make from fifteen to eighteen cakes, according to 
size. If the cakes are taken from oven before thor- 
oughly done, they will fall. 

Eclairs. 

Use cream cake mixture, and shape four inches long 
and one inch wide. This is done by using pastry bag 
and tube. Bake for twenty-five minutes, in moderate 
oven. Split on side and fill with any cream you like — 
vanilla, chocolate or coffee cream filling. Frost with 
fondant frosting by dipping eclairs in while frosting 
is hot, and, if chocolate is desired, add melted chocolate 
to hot fondant. 

Fruit Cake. 

% pound butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

V2 pound flour. I/2 cup preserves. 

1/2 pound brown sugar. U cup whisky. 

5 eggs. 1 teaspoon each of cloves, 

l^ pound cherries. cinnamon, mace and 

3 pounds raisins. nutmeg. 

14 pound figs. 1^ pound candied pineapple. 

% pound each of pecans, walnuts and almonds. 

Follow rule for making pound cake. Sift spices and 
baking-powder with flour, and chop nuts fine. They 
can be ground in food-chopper or cut with sharp knife. 



312 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINQS. 

Cream Filling I. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups scalded milk. 

Vs cup flour. % teaspoon salt. 

Yolks 3 eggs. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs beaten slightly, and 
reserve half of the milk cold and mix with the above. 
Pour on the scalded milk. Return to double boiler and 
cook for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time until the 
mixture becomes thick; after that, every few moments. 
Cool and flavor. Should there be lumps, strain through 
a sieve. 

Chocolate Cream Filling. 

Add two sc^uares of unsweetened chocolate (melted 
in saucepan) to Cream Filling I. 

Cream Filling with Strawberries. 

1 cup whipping cream. White 1 egg. 

% cup powdered sugar. i/. cup strawberries. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Beat cream until thick to bottom with Dover egg- 
beater. Add sugar and white of egg beaten until stiff 
and dry. The strawberries crushed fine with the lemon 
juice. 

Date Filling. 

1X<2 cups dates, cut into % cup pecan-nuts, cut fine. 

small pieces. i^ cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup whipped cream. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS. 313 

Pour hot water over dates, remove stones and dry- 
perfectly^ dry, as any water adhering- to them will spoil 
the cream. Cut, add nut meats, lemon juice and sugar. 
Fold into the whipped cream, and spread between lay- 
ers of cake. 

Cocoanut Filling:. 

Whites 2 eggs. Enough powdered sugar to 

1 cup fresh-grated cocoanut. make it spread. 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff, and add sugar until 
it will spread nicely. Spread over cake, and sprinkle 
thickly with the cocoanut. 

Chocolate Filling. 

3 squares chocolate, 2 tablespoons milk. 

114 cups powdered sugar. 2 egg yolks. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add milk and half 
the sugar. Beat yolks slightly, add remaining half-cup 
of sugar to eggs, and combine the two. Turn in double 
boiler and cook all until it thickens, stirring all the 
while to keep the mixture smooth. Cool, flavor and 
spread. 

Lemon Filling:. 

1 cup sugar. 1.4 cup lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 eggs. 

Grated rind 1 lemon. Butter size of walnut. 

Mix sugar, flour, grated rind of lemon and lemon 
juice, and egg beaten slightly. Put butter in sauce- 
pan, and when melted add the mixture, using care 
that it does not catch on bottom of saucepan. When 
boiling-point is reached, the mixture will be done. Re- 
move and cool, then spread. 



314 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Fig Filling. 

14 pound figs, chopped 14 cup boiling water. 

fine. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. '^2 cup nut meats, chopped. 

Run figs through meat-chopper. Cook until skins 
are tender. Add sugar and lemon juice. Mix well, 
and spread with broad knife. 

Red Raspberry Frosting. 

One cup of red raspberries, strained through a fine 
strainer to free from seeds, and one tablespoon of 
lemon juice. To fruit juice add enough confectioners' 
sugar to spread. The sugar is not measured, but always 
sifted until free from lumps. Spread with broad-bladed 
knife between cake layers and on top. 

Strawberry Frosting. 

Make same as the red raspberry, selecting a bright 
red berry to have the frosting a good color. Blackberry, 
currant and any fruit juice can be prepared in the 
same way. 

Orange Frosting. 

Grated rind 1 orange. 2 tablespoons orange juice. 

Juice 1/2 lemon. 1 tablespoon brandy or 

Yolk 1 egg. sherry wine. 

Confectioner's sugar. 

Add grated rind to fruit juice and brandy, and let 
stand for half an hour. Strain and add the beaten 
yolk of egg. Add enough confectioner's sugar to 
spread nicely. Stir hard and rapidly until it becomes 
glossy. This can be used between layers and on top. 



CxVKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS. 31.5 

Lemon Frosting. 

Prepare same as orange frosting, using the grated 
rind of the lemon and the juice with the tablespoonful 
of brandy. 

Plain White Frosting. 

White 1 egg. 1 teaspoon vanilla, or a little 

1 tablespoon cold water. grated rind of lemon with 

1 cup confectioner's sugar. tablespoon of the juice. 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add water and sugar. 
Beat very hard until smooth and glossy-looking. Strain 
rind out of lemon juice, and add to the frosting. Use 
more sugar if necessary, and spread with broad knife. 

Pineapple Filling. 

1 cup whipped cream. 1 cup grated pineapple. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

Mix ingredients and spread between layers of cake. 
Frost top with plain white frosting. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

2 squares Baker's choco- 1 teaspoon melted butter, 
late. Pinch salt. 

^2 cup scalded cream. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Confectioner's sugar to spread. 

■Melt chocolate over hot water; add cream, salt, yolks 
of eggs and butter. Stir in sugar, and continue the 
stirring for a few moments until glossy and the right 
consistency to spread, then add vanilla. 

White Mountain Cream. 

2 cups sugar. % teaspoon cream of 

3^. cup boiling w^ater. tartar. 

Whites 2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

stiff and dry. Few grains salt in whites 

1/4 tablespoon lemon juice. of eggs. 



316 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Put sugar in saucepan, add cream of tartar, pour on 
water, and stir well to dissolve sugar as nearly as pos- 
sible. Heat to boiling-point. Boil without stirring 
until it threads when droppfed from point of spoon. 
Remove from fire as soon as the thread appears, and 
pour gradually on the well-beaten whites. Continue 
beating until right consistency to spread. Add flavor- 
ing, and spread on cake. Smooth with broad-bladed 
knife. If frosting is not beaten enough, it will run. 
If beaten too long, add a few drops of lemon juice or 
boiling water or cream. If candied cherries or nuts 
are to be used, place them on as soon as the frosting 
is spread. 

Boiled Frosting. 

11^ cups sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

1/2 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Proceed same as for white mountain cream, and 
beat until it will spread nicely. 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. 

To boiled frosting add two squares of melted choco- 
late as soon as the syrup is added to whites of eggs. 

Brown Sugar Frosting. 

Make same as boiled frosting, using brown sugar in 
place of white. Add one-half cup of nuts cut fine, 
then it is a brown sugar nut frosting. 

Maple Sugar Frosting. 

1 pound soft maple sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

V2 cup boiling water. 

Break sugar in small pieces and put in sauce with 
boiling water. Stir occasionally until sugar is dissolved. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS. 317 

Boil without stirring until it will thread when dropped 
from point of spoon. Pour on well-beaten whites of 
eggs gradually. Continue beating until consistency to 
spread. 

Opera Caramel Frosting. 

2V-2 cups light brown sugar. 1 cup cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Boil ingredients together in smooth saucepan until 
a ball can be formed when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from fire and beat until right consistency to 
spread. Pour between layers of cake and cover cake 
with it. 

Ornamental Frosting. 

Whites 3 eggs. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Sifted confectioner's sugar. 

Put eggs in large-sized bowl. Add two tablespoons 
of sugar, and beat three minutes, using a small wooden 
spoon. Repeat until one and one-half cups of sugar 
have been used. Add lemon juice as mixture thickens, 
a few^ drops at a time. Continue adding sugar by 
spoonfuls until thick enough to spread. This is de- 
termined by taking up some of the mixture on the 
back of your wooden spoon which you are using for 
the beating, and with a case-knife make a cut through 
the mixture, and if the knife makes a clean cut and 
the frosting remains parted, it is of the right con- 
sistency. Spread cake thinly with this frosting, rest 
until the frosting hardens, and put on a thicker layer, 
having the mixture a little thicker than for the first 
coat, and then crease for cutting. To remaining frost- 
ing add enough more of confectioner's sugar that when 
pressed through pastry-bag it will hold its shape. With 



318 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the pastry-bag- and the different variety of tube, the 
cake can be decorated to taste. 

To Glaze Cakes. — Beat white of an egg slightly, 
adding one tablespoon powdered sugar to white of one 
eo:g. Apply with brush to tops and sides of cakes 
that are to be dipped. Rest overnight before dipping. 

To Dip Cakes. — Melt fondant over hot water. Color 
and flavor as desired. Lower cake in fondant to three- 
fourths depth of cake. Remove from fork and rest 
on board. Decorate with nuts, cherries, angelica or 
candied violets. 



FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 319 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 

"Sweets to the sweet." — Shakespeare. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

¥2 pound grated cocoanut. G ounces p,ugar. 

Whites 2 eggs, 1 spoonful glucose. 

Cook cocoanut sugar and glucose in double boiler 
until it sticks to spoon. Add whites of eggs, and cook 
until mixture sticks to fingers. Spread in wet pan, 
cover with wet paper, and chill on ice. Dip hands 
in cold water and shape into balls. Bake on tin sheet 
greased with w^hite wax twenty minutes. — Muth's Con- 
fectioner. 

Macaroons. 

Vo pound almond paste. Whites 3 eggs. 

¥2 pound powdered sugar. 

Work together, on board or marble slab, the almond 
paste and sugar until well blended, then add whites, 
of eggs gradually, and work until mixture is perfectly 
smooth. The hand is used first, then the palette knife. 
Shape, using a pastry-bag and tube, on a tin sheet 
covered with buttered paper, leaving one inch between. 
The confectioners drop from tip of spoon in small 
pile, and do it very rapidly. Bake for fifteen minutes 
in sloAV oven. When taken from oven invert paper 
and lay on a cloth wrung out of cold water, and they 
will slip off easily. 



320 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Almond Macaroons. 

Sprinkle the above mixture with almonds blanched' 
and chopped fine. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup grated cocoanut 
with enough of the milk of the cocoanut to form a 
plain paste. Shape and bake same as almond. 

Hickory-nuts and filberts are both used for maca- 
roons. With filberts you use half blanched almonds. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Clean outside of black date. With a pointed knife 
remove the stone. Fill cavities with English walnuts, 
pecan-nuts or blanched almonds, and press back to 
original shape. Roll in granulated sugar, pile in pretty 
rows on fancy dish, and serve. Dates are also stuffed 
with Neufchatel cheese, and nuts mixed with the cheese, 
forming rolls size of the stone and pressed into shape. 

Molasses Candy. 

2 cups molasses. 1 teaspoon cream of 

3 cups sugar. tartar. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. i/o teaspoon soda. 

1 cup boiling water. i/L> cup butter, melted 

Put molasses, sugar and water in saucepan, and 
place on hot part of range. When boiling-point is 
reached, add cream of tartar, and stir until well mixed. 
Boil and try in cold water to see when it is done. Stir 
all the time during the last part of the boiling. When 
it is brittle, and just before taking from the fire, add 
the soda and butter. Pour on buttered pans and pull. 
Add vanilla as you pull, or you can use wintergreen 
or any flavor desired. 



FANCY CAKE8 AND CANDIES. 321 

Hoarhound Candy. 

31/. cups sugar. A cube of hoarhound, 

2 cups boiling water. 3 inches square. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Separate hoarhound in pieces, pour the boiling water 
over it, and let it steep for two minutes. Strain through 
do.uble of cheesecloth. Pour into saucepan with sugar 
and cream of tartar. Boil until it is brittle when 
dropped in cold water. Pour into well-buttered pan, 
and as it cools mark in squares the size of caramels. 

Butter=scotch. 

2 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

1 cup molasses. li cup boiling water. 

% cup butter. 

Boil all together until brittle when tried in cold 
water. Turn into well-buttered pan, and with a sharp- 
pointed knife mark into squares. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

3 tablespoons butter. Vo cup milk. 

2 cups Orleans molasses. 4 squares Baker's chocolate. 
2 cups brown sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Put butter into saucepan, and when melted add 
molasses, sugar and milk. Stir until all are well 
blended, and when boiling-point is reached, add choco- 
late and continue stirring until chocolate is melted. 
Boil until a firm ball is foj-med on the tips of the 
fingers when tried in cold water. Take from fire, and 
add vanilla. Turn onto buttered pan, and as it begins 
to harden cut into inch cubes. 

Ice=cream Candy. 

4 cups sugar. lA teaspoon cream of tartar. 
1 tablespoon vinegar. % cup boiling water. 



322 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Boil without stirring until brittle when dropped in 
cold water. Turn on well-buttered platter, and cool 
until you can handle; as you pull, add vanilla. Con- 
tinue pulling until white and glossy. 

Nut Candy. 

1^2 cups nuts. 1 pound sugar. 

Use either English walnuts or shellbark hickory- 
nuts, or our own native black walnut. Cover bottom 
of buttered shallow pan or platter with the nuts to 
be used. Put sugar in smooth frying-pan, and melt 
to syrup, stirring all the time, and using care that it 
does not adhere to sides of pan. Remove as soon as 
melted, before it caramelizes, and pour evenly over the 
nuts. As soon as it begins to harden, mark off in bars 
or squares. Peanuts can be used for this candy. You 
will then call it peanut bars. 

Chocolate Cream Candy. 

3 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 cup milk. 3 squares chocolate. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Put butter in saucepan. When melted, add sugar 
and milk. Heat to boiling-point, and add chocolate. 
Stir until chocolate is melted. Boil about fifteen 
minutes. Remove from fire, add vanilla, and beat until 
mixture becomes creamy and a little sugary round 
edges of saucepan. Pour in buttered pan and mark 
in squares. 

Maple Sugar Candy. 

1 pound maple sugar. 1/2 cup boiling water. 

^2 cup cream. 1 tablespoon butter." 

Break sugar in pieces and put in saucepan with 
cream and water. Boil rapidly until a soft ball is 



FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 323^ 

formed when tried in cold water. Remove from fire 
and beat until creamy. Pour into buttered tins, cool, 
and mark into squares. 

Maple Sugar with Nuts. 

I^se same recipe as the above, beat until creamy, 
and add pecan-nuts (about one cup) just as you pour 
it into the buttered tin. You can use shellbark hickory- 
nuts or English walnuts if preferred. 

Creamed Walnuts. 

White 1 egg. 1 pound confectioner's 

i/j tablespoon cold water. sugar. 

1 teaspoon, vanilla. English walnut meats. 

Place water, egg and vanilla in bowl, and beat until 
thoroughly blended. Add sugar gradually until stiff 
enough to knead, shape in small balls, flatten, and place 
walnuts on one or both sides. 

Peppermints. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

7 drops oil of peppermint. 

Put sugar and water into saucepan, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Boil rapidly for from ten to twelve 
minutes. Remove from fire, add peppermint, and beat 
until of consistency to drop from tip of spoon on but- 
tered paper. 

To Boil Sugar for Confections. 

To prepare fondant, which is the basis of all French 
candy, an amateur really needs a syrup thermometer. 
The professional is able to tell when the syrup is right 
by the sound and the size of the bubbles avSi they rise 
to the top ; but with a thermometer you know when it 
reaches 238° F., when it is ready to be poured on the 
slab for working and creaming. 



.324 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

White Fondant. 

2% pounds sugar. I14 cups hot water. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Put ingredients in granite stewpan. Stir until 
sugar is dissolved, pl'ace on range, and bring to 
the boiling-point. Boil wit-iiout stirring until, when 
tried in cold water, a soft ball is formed that will keep 
its shape. Keep the sugar that adheres to the side of 
the saucepan washed off, either with the hand dipped 
in cold water and passed quickly round the saucepan 
just above the syrup, or by w»ashing with a piece of 
cheesecloth dipped in cold water. If this is done 
quickly, it can be done with the fingers without burn- 
ing them.. Have ready a marble slab oiled with a little 
good olive oil, and as soon as the "soft ball" is reached, 
pour slowly on slab. Let stand a few moments to cool, 
but do not let it become cold. Scrape to one end of 
slab, and work with wooden spatula (or paddle) until 
white and creamy, and then knead with the hands until 
perfectly smooth. Put into a wide-mouthed glass jar 
or a bowl, and cover with oiled paper to entirely ex- 
elude the air, or a crust will form on top. Rest it for 
twenty-four hours, when it will be ready for use, 

Coffee Fondant. 

21,4 pounds sugar. Va cup ground coffee. 

lY:^ cups cold water. H teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Place coffee and water in saucepan, and bring 
slowly to boiling-point. Strain through double of 
cheesecloth, resting on fine strainer. Add to the 
strained coffee the sugar and cream of tartar. Boil 
and treat same as white fondant. 



FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 325 

Maple Fondant. 

IV2 pounds maple sugar. 1 cup hot water. 

1 pound granulated sugar. 14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Break sugar into pieces as small as possible to have 
it dissolve more quickly. Boil and treat same as white 
fondant. 

Mint Creams. 

Melt fondant over hot water, flavor with a few drops 
of oil of peppermint, and color if desired. Drop from 
tip of spoon on oiled paper. There are rubber moulds 
used by confectioners, but these are too expensive for 
home candy-making, and by a little practice one can 
shape them very nicely from the point of the spoon. 

Wintergreen, clove, orange or cinnamon can be pre- 
pared in the same way as the above, using the different 
colored pastes, according to the flavor you are using. 

Dipped Nuts. 

]\relt, flavor and color fondant ; dip any kind of nut 
meat, using the nuts for centers. English walnuts, 
pecan-nuts, almonds and filberts are all prepared in the 
same way. 

Syrup for Glace Nuts and Fruits. 

2 cups sugar. % cup boiling water. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Place ingredients in saucepan. Stir well, and place 
on stove where it will boil. Boil without stirring until 
syrup takes on a golden color. (Wash off sugar from 
sides of saucepan while cooking, same as for fondant.) 
Remove saucepan from fire, and rest in pan of cold 
water to stop the cooking instantly. Take from the 
cold water and place in pan of hot water during the 
dipping. Use a long hat-pin to dip nuts, putting them 
in the syrup so every part is covered. If you are using 



326 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

a syrnp thermometer for preparing this syrup, it will 
register 310° F. when it becomes discolored. There are 
eleven stages for boiling syrup, but in preparing candy 
for home consuniption it is only necessary for the ama- 
teur to learn fou'r of them. Example: The "thread" 
for boiled icings, "soft ball" for fondant, the "crack" 
for glace fruits and nuts, and the "caramel" for cus- 
tard and diflPerent desserts in which caramel is used. 

Glace Fruits. 

Malaga grapes, strawberries, cherries, and sections 
of oranges and mandarins are most commonly used. 
In using grapes cut them from the bunch, leaving a 
short stem to each one. Dip in glace syrup by holding* 
to stem with small pair of pinchers. Remove to oiled 
paper. Use care not to pierce the thin skin on the 
orange or strawberry, as the fruit juice will spoil the 
syrup. G laced fruits want to be used the day they are 
prepared, and the weather wants to be cold and clear. 

Burnt Almond. 

Put a cup of brown sugar in saucepan with very 
little water. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Let it boil 
for a moment, turn in three-fourths cup of almonds, 
and stir until the sugar granulates and becomes a little 
brown. When the nuts are well coated, and before they 
become a mass, turn them out on oiled paper, and sepa- 
rate any that are sticking together. 

Fudge. 

2 cups brown sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup white sugar. Cup milk or cream, 

i/j. cup butter. 3 squares Baker's choco- 

late or 1/. cup cocoa. 

Boil ten minutes. When done, remove from fire and 

cool for a moment, then add vanilla. Beat until cool 

and thick. Pour into buttered pan. Crease m squares. 



USE OP CHAFING-DISH. 32 1 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 
USE OF CHAFING-DISH. 

THE chafing dish is very old, and we find it was 
used by the Greeks and Romans, who had very 
elaborate ones in silver. Some of the pictures I have 
seen of them represented them as standing on legs of 
silver as high as the ordinary table. It has been said 
by some great writer that daintiness and desire to have 
the food served hot gave rise to the invention. In the 
present day we use it for preparing certain dishes at 
the table for the luncheon hour and Sunday evening 
teas, and the supper after the theater. In this age of 
advancement the chafing-dish is being connected with 
the electric light as well as with gas, or, if preferred, 
the alcohol lamp is still in use. 

The chafing-dish consists of two pans. The under 
■one is for holding hot water and the upper one for 
holding the food to be cooked. A blazer differs from 
the chafing-dish in the fact that it has no hot-water 
pan. The denatured alcohol is much cheaper, and is 
now used generally for the chafing-dish. Very attrac- 
tive dishes are made of nickel, copper, aluminum, etc., 
as well as silver. The latest patterns have the lamp 
with the screw adjustment to regulate the flame, to- 
gether with a metal tray on which to rest the dish, 
and the tray is very essential to protecting the cloth 
and the polished table. Use care not to fill the lamp 
too full. The hot-water pan wants to have handle on 
one or both sides, so as not to burn the hands if neces- 



328 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

sary to move it. The small wooden spoons are much 
nicer than the metal spoon, for the reason they are 
more quiet in the hand of the cook, and I do not know 
a better expression than to say, are more ''ladylike." 
Russian bowls are also desirable to measure the mate- 
rial before bringing from the kitchen; having just 
enough; as you empty the bow]^ they can be placed one 
in the other, thus giving more room for the work. The 
toast also wants to be prepared in the kitchen. Al- 
though there are toasters for this purpose, your lamp 
is usually in use for the dish in preparation. 

IMrs. Terhune Herrick says in her book that the 
chafing-dish began its career in the hands of the bache- 
lor, and was to him the substitute for a hearthstone. 
Assisted by the chafing-dish, he not only welcomed the 
evening in, but saw it out in a blaze of glory. 

EGOS. 
Scrambled Eggs. 

"5 eggs. 5 tablespoons milk. 

5 pinches salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Break eggs in bowl, but do not beat them. Add the 
five pinches of salt to eggs. (A pinch of salt is what 
you take up between the thumb and forefinger.) Place 
butter in blazer, add milk to butter, turn in the eggs, 
and stir and cook until creamy. Stir constantly to 
keep them from sticking to bottom of pan. Place over 
hot-water pan and serve from dish. 

Eggs with Curry. 

4 eggs. V_. cup milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. V:2 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon curry powder. 1 teaspoon onion juice. 

Break eggs in bowl. Mix curry powder with milk 



USE OF CHAFING-DISH. 329* 

by pouring on a little milk at a time until a smooth 
paste is made. Then put butter in blazer, add onion 
juice, and as soon as hot turn in eggs, milk, curry 
powder and salt, and stir until smooth and creamy. 
Serve on toast or reception flake crackers. 

Eggs with Mushrooms. 

4 eggs. 1 cup mushrooms. 

2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt butter in blazer, add mushrooms, and cook 
five minutes. Add lemon juice, stir in eggs, add salt; 
and pepper and cook until thick. 

Welsh Rabbit. 

2 eggs. V2 teaspoon mustard. 

14 cup ale or beer. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

1 tablespoon butter. sauce. 

M: pound grated cheese. 14 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Pinch cayenne. 

Melt butter in blazer, resting in pan of hot water. 
Add the ale, and when these are very hot put in the 
grated cheese. As soon as it is melted and smooth, 
add the salt, mustard and cayenne. Have ready the 
eggs beaten until very light. Dip out some of the 
cheese mixture into the bowl with the eggs, and when 
well mixed pour into the chafing-dish, slowly stirring 
all the time. When the mixture is well blended and 
smooth, add the Worcestershire and lemon juice, and 
serve on hot toast. 

Saute Shad Roes. 

Prepare shad roes by parboiling them ten minutes 
in salted water with a tablespoon of lemon juice added 
to the water. When done, blanch them in cold water, 
and they are ready for the chafing-dish. Put two table- 



330 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

spoons of butter in blazer, and when hot lay in the pair 
of roes, and cook and turn to brown them evenly. When 
done, take them out and add a little more butter to 
blazer, and when melted add one teaspoon Worcester- 
shire sauce and a little lemon juice, and pour over each 
service, with a slice of lemon to garnish. 

Sardines. 

Free one dozen sardines from oil by laying them on 
paper, and scrape off the skin carefully so as not to 
break them. Put two tablaspoons of butter in chafing- 
dish ; when hot, put in sardines, turn carefully, and 
brown on both sides. When done, season with salt, 
pepper and lemon juice, and serve on toast. 

Oysters Panned. 

Clean and prepare twenty-four large oysters. Put 
two tablespoons of butter in blazer, and when melted 
add o^^sters. Stir until the edges curl. Serve on toast 
seasoned with salt and pepper. These are very nice 
served on crisped crackers. 

Panned Oysters with Sherry. 

Prepare same as above recipe, and a moment be- 
fore taking from chafing-dish add three tablespoons of 
sherry wine. 

Deviled Oysters. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cup oyster liquor. 

1 teaspoon Worcester- A little cayenne. 

shire sauce. V. teaspoon curry powder. 

!/{> teaspoon salt. 

Put into blazer the butter and seasonings. As they 
heat, add the cup of oyster liquor, and when it boils 
add the oysters Cook until oysters are plump and well 
curled, and serve at once. 



USE OF CHAFING-DISH. 331 

Fried Oysters. 

Use large oysters. Clean and prepare as directed. 
Drain, and sprinkle with salt and white pepper. Put 
into the blazer three tablespoons of butter, and Avhen 
hot put in the oysters. Brown on one side, turn and 
brown on the other. Serve hot, with brown bread sand- 
wiches, slices of lemon and tomato catsup. 

Oyster Stew. 

2 tablespoons butter. 24 oysters. 

2 tablespoons flour. lA teaspoon salt. 
1 pint oyster liquor. White pepper. 

Cook butter and flour together in blazer. Add 
slowly the oyster liquor, and stir all the time until the 
boiling-point is reached. Add the oysters, and cook 
until the edges curl. Add the seasonings, and serve- 
with oyster crackers or French bread and butter. 

Lobster a la New^burg. 

A 2-pound lobster. 2 tablespoons sherry. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon brandy. 
V, cup cream. i/-. teaspoon salt. 
Yolks 2 eggs. Toast. 

Remove lobster meat from shell, and cut into dice. 
Place butter in blazer. When it melts, add lobster and 
cook a few moments. Add the seasonings, wine and 
brandy, cook a moment, and add the yolks of eggs well 
beaten and mixed with the cream. Serve with toast. 

Shrimps a la Newburg. 

1 pint shrimps. Yolks 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon flour. 14 teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons butter. Dash cayenne. 

!{. cup cream. 3 tablespoons sherry wine. 

% tablespoon lemon juice. 

Clean shrimps, and prepare same as lobster. 



332 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Clams a la Newburg. 

1 pint clams. 14 cup sherry wine. 

2 tablespoons butter. Cayenne and salt. 
% cup cream. Yolks 3 eggs. 

Clean clams as directed. Separate soft and hard 
parts ; finely chop hard parts Melt butter, and add the 
hard parts, wine and seasonings. Cook for eight or 
ten minutes. Add soft parts and cream, and eggs 
beaten until light and diluted with a little of the cold 
cream which has been reserved for this purpose. Serve 
hot from the chafing-dish with Graham bread sand- 
wiches covered lightly with butter that has been 
creamed, and a few nuts added to butter if liked. 

Tomato Rarebit. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 cups finely] chopped cheese. 
3 tablespoons flour. % cup stewed and strained 
1/. tablespoon sugar. tomatoes. 

1 cup thin cream. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

Salt to taste. Va teaspoon soda. 

Yolks 3 eggs. Dash cayenne. 

Place butter in blazer. When melted, add the flour, 
then the cream slowly. Stir until it thickens. Add 
tomatoes mixed with soda and sugar, then cheese and 
eggs beaten light, then the seasonings. As soon as 
cheese is melted, serve on toast. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 

Prepare sweetbreads as directed in the chapter on 
sweetbreads. When the chafing-dish is very hot, add 
one teaspoon of butter, and rub it all over the bottom. 
Add the prepared sweetbreads, and cook to a nice 
brown, using care that they do not scorch. Add more 
l^utter if they stick. (It is well to melt the butter to 



USE OF CHAFING-DISH. 333 

he used in the chaf!n2;-dish for broiling or frying", and 
pour it oif to free it from salt, or you can use olive 
o\].) When sweetbreads are done, place on platter and 
surround with French peas. 

French Peas. 

Open, rinse with cold water, and drain a can of 
French peas. Heat in chafing-dish. Season with salt, 
butter, and a little white pepper. Ser 'e around the 
broiled sweetbreads, or with creamed sweetbreads. You 
prepare the sweetbreads in the blazer and peas in hot- 
water pan. 

Barbecued Ham, 

Use one-half pound of boiled ham cut very thin. 
Cook in chafing-dish in its own fat. When a nice 
brown, draw to one side, and to the fat add one table- 
spoon of lemon juice, one teaspoon of dry mustard 
and two teaspoons of sugar. I\Iix sugar, mustard and 
lemon juice well together, and add to fat. When all 
is well mixed stir the ham into the barbecue, and sim- 
mer a moment and serve. This is nice with fried eggs. 
Prepare ham, then the eggs, in hot-water pan. 

Mutton with Jelly and Wine. 

Make a sauce with two tablespoons of butter, two 
tablespoons of flour, one-third cup of currant jelly, one 
cup brown stock, two cups cold mutton cut thin, one- 
fourth cup of sherry wine. Season to taste. The gravy 
from the mutton can be used instead of the brown stock, 
using half gravy and half hot water. 

Fruit Canapes. 

Brown rounds of stale bread in butter in chafing- 
dish, and spread with stewed dried fruit of any kind 



334 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

desired — primes, figs, dates, etc. After they are ten- 
der, chop them fine and add a little lemon juice and 
sugar. Spread canapes while hot. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Select firm tomatoes with as few seeds as possible. 
Wash and wipe, but do not peel. Put in the blazer two 
tablespoons of butter, and when very hot lay in the 
tomatoes. Turn often, and cook until tender. Remove 
and sprinkle with a little powdered sugar, salt and 
paprika, and serve with cold meat of any kind. 

Deviled Tomatoes. 

Cook as directed above. Remove from chafing-dish, 
and keep warm. Add one tablespoon butter to blazer, 
one teaspoon grated onion, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
one tablespoon powdered sugar, one teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, and dash of cayenne. Mix all the dry ingredients 
in bowl, moisten with lemon juice, and add to butter 
in chafing-dish at once. Add the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs or one whole egg very slowly to mixture, stir- 
ring all the while. As soon as all are in, turn out 
your lamp, baste tomatoes with the sauce, and serve. 
This is fine with cold corned tongue. 

French Mushroom Saute. 

Peel, wash mushrooms, and cut off stems. Melt 
two tablespoons butter in blazer, lay in mushrooms, and 
cook for ten minutes, turning often. Season with salt, 
pepper and lemon juice. Serve on toast or around 
beefsteak. 



INVALID COOKERY. 335 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 

INVALID COOKERY. 

"They are sick that surfeit with too much as they that 
starve with nothing." 

THE physicians of the present day will tell you 
that the proper preparation of the food for an 
invalid is of as much importance to the recovery of the 
patient as the drugs that he administers. The manner 
in which it is served is also of great importance. The 
tray for the invalid wants especial care. The tray 
wants to be covered with a spotless tray-cloth and 
always a clean napkin, so there will be no odor from 
the food that was served the meal before, which often 
occurs when the napkin is put in a ring to be used 
several times. You want to bear in mind that the 
appetite of a sick person is very capricious, and the 
least thing will spoil any appetite he may have and 
keep him from partaking of the food that is offered. 
Select for the invalid's tray the daintiest china 
and glass and the choicest silver, and make as many 
changes as possible. Cheer the patient by laying a 
bright flower on the tray-cloth. A flower without strong 
odor is the best. Arrange things in such a manner that 
everything is to the hand without making changes. 
Place plate in front of tray near edge, knife on right 
side, fork on left, spoon at top of plate or to right of 
knife, and cup and saucer at right of plate, with handle 
in proper position. Put the bread and butter plate at 
left over the fork, the napkin at right of cup; salt, but 



336 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

no pepper. Avoid having a crowded tray. AVhen the 
patient is convalescing, and soup, meat and light des- 
sert are served, remove one course before the other 
appears. Serve hot things liot and cold things cold. 
A glass of milk, cup of gruel, or cup of beef tea should 
be placed on a plate with a doily. Never consult the 
patient as to his "menu," but let the food come in the 
way of a surprise to him. Anticipation often spurs 
the appetite, and an unexpected dainty will often be 
eaten with a relish. We must eat with a relish if we 
digest. If the patient expresses a desire for any par- 
ticular article of food, it is perhaps just as well to 
call the attention of the doctor to it, as it may be a 
valuable indication of the needs of the system. Always 
use care not to serve too much at a time, for often an 
overloaded tray destroys the appetite. If the patient 
is restricted to a milk diet, it can be varied by the use 
of albuminized milk, koumiss, or by addition of Apolli- 
naris or seltzer water. 

The tray wants to be taken away as soon as the 
patient has finished, any solids burned, and fluids dis- 
posed of. The nurse of the present day, if a proficient 
one, is a fair doctor, and she knows only the food pre- 
scribed must be given to the patient. 

The liquid foods are the first to be considered. 
Barley and rice water are astringents, and are used 
in laxative conditions. Toast water is often used for 
nausea, bread being toasted quite brown. Clam water 
is used to stimulate the stomach so it will retain the 
food. Fruit waters are used for fever patients, for 
the reason they are cooling and slightly stimulating, a;j 
well as valuable for their salts and acids. In sweeten- 
ing fruit water always have a heavy syrup made with 
sugar and water. Beef essence, which is the expressed 



INVALID COOKERY. 337 

juice of the beef, and is given where a condensed form 
of food is necessary, is best prepared from meat cut 
from top of round. 

Beef tea is the juices of the meat diluted with 
water, and a stimulant rather than a nutrient. Egg- 
nogs are used where a large amount of nutriment is 
necessary as well as for a stimulant. 

Semi-solid foods are the gruels, and those made 
from oatmeal and corn are heat-producers, and should 
not be given with inflammatory symptoms. Arrow- 
root makes a delicate gruel, and is more easily digested 
than any other form of starch. 

Solid foods comprise those given during convales- 
cence, and it is during convalescence that the nurse 
can display her skill and good judgment quite as much 
as during the more critical period of the disease. 

Rice Water. 

2 tablespoons rice. i/l. cup milk or cream. 

2 cups cold water. Salt to taste. 

Thoroughly wash rice in three waters, and rub the 
graias between the hands. Add to water and boil until 
tender; strain and add to rice, water, milk or cream 
as desired. Salt to taste. Reheat and serve. 

Barley Water. 

3 tablespoons barley. Salt to taste. 

4 cups cold water. Lemon juice. 

Sugar. 

Pick over barley and soak in water overnight. Boil 
very slowly for two hours. (After boiling for fifteen 
minutes slowly on range, it is best to put it in double 
boiler and finish the cooking, as there will be no danger 
of burning.) Strain, season with salt, lemon juice and 
sugar. Reheat and serve. 



338 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Toast Water. 

Toast stale bread until a rich dark brown, and use 
■equal measure of boiling water. Salt to taste. 

Oatmeal Water. • 

One cup fine oatmeal, and two quarts water, boiled 
and cooled. Add oatmeal to water and keep where the 
temperature is at 80° F. about two hours. Strain and 
serve. 

Apple Water. 

1 large tart apple. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Wipe, core and pare apple. Put sugar in cavity. 
Bake in moderate oven to a golden brown. Mash, pour 
over water, and let stand for thirty minutes. Strain. 

Currant Water. 

i/o glass currant jelly, or 1 cup cold water. 

3 tablespoons currant Sugar, 

juice. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Mix juice and water, and sweeten to taste. (Care 
must be used not to have it too sweet.) If jelly is used, 
mash the jelly and dissolve in the water, and, if not 
sweet enough, more sugar can be added. 

Tamarind Water. 

2 tablespoons preserved 1 cup boiling water, 
tamarinds. Sugar to taste. 

Pour water over tamarinds, and stir until well 

mixed. Let it stand for thirty minutes, then strain. 

Sweeten to taste. 

Grape Juice. 

1% cups Concord grapes. 1 cup cold water. 

14 cup sugar. 



INVALID COOKERY. 339 

"Wash, pick over and remove stems. Add water, 
and cook in double boiler for about one and one-half 
hours. Add sugar, and cook for twenty-five minutes; 
strain and cool. Pour over shaved ice. 

Syrup for Sweetening Fruit Waters for 
the Sick-room. 

0V2 cups sugar. 214 cups water. 

Stir it over fire until sugar is dissolved. Boil for 
iive minutes from the time it begins boiling rapidly. 
Every additional five minutes will thicken one degree. 
Place in air-tight preserve-jar, for use as needed. 

Lemonade. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 2 tablespoons syrup. 

Shaved ice and water. 

If ice is to be used, have it shaved. Place in tum- 
bler, pour on syrup, and add lemon juice, then water. 
Stir or shake well, and serve. Apollinaris, seltzer or 
soda water may be used. 

Orangeade. 

Juice 1 orange. l'{. tablespoons syrup. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. Crushed ice. 

Pour orange and lemon juice over the crushed ice. 
Add syrup. Mix by stirring or shaking. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 

1 tablespoon whole flax- 1 pint boiling water, 

seed. Lemon juice. 

Sugar. 

Pick over and wash flaxseed. x\dd water, and cook 
for two houi's in double boiler. Strain, add lemon 
juice, and sugar to taste. 



340 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Koumiss. 

1 quart milk. % yeast cake, dissolved in 1 

1 tablespoon sugar. tablespoon lukewarm water. 

Heat milk in double boiler until lukewarm. Add 
sugar and dissolved yeast cake. Fill beer bottles within 
one and one-half inches of top. Cork and invert, using 
care to tie cork down with strong twine. Stand at a 
temperature of 80° F. for six hours. Chill and serve 
the following day. 

Milk Punch. 

1/; cup milk. 1 tablespoon whisky. 

Sugar. brandy or rum. 

Nutmeg. 

Mix ingredients, cover, and shake well until very 
foamy. Mary Mantenon gave us the • refreshing milk 
punch for the sick-room. 

Albutnenized Milk. 

Y2 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

Put white of egg in tumbler, add milk, cover tightly, 
and shake until thoroughly mixed. 

Egg-nog I. 

1 egg, beaten until 2 tablespoons wine, or 1 

very light. tablespoon brandy. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Pinch of salt. 

% cup milk. 

Beat egg until light and creamy; add sugar, salt 
and wine. Mix thoroughly, add milk, and strain 

Egg-nog 11. 

Use same ingredients, and separate white and yolk 
of egg. Beat yolk until thick and lemon color. Add 
sugar, salt, wine and milk. Strain, and add the white 
beaten very light and fold in. 



INVALID COOKERY. 341 

Hot=water Egg=nog. 

Prepare same as Egg-nog- I., using half cup hot 

water in place of milk. 

Cocoa. 

4 teaspoons cocoa. 1 cup scalded milk. 

% cup boiling water 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Moisten cocoa with cold water, and add boiling 
water. Boil one minute, then add scalded milk. Beat 
rapidly for a moment, to prevent the scum from rising 
and to form the frothy top. 

Cocoa Cordial. 

2 teaspoons cocoa. 74 cup boiling water. 

IV2 teaspoons sugar. 2 tablespoons port wine. 

Mix cocoa and sugar. Add enough water to form 
a paste. Stir well, and add remainder of water. Boil 
a moment, then add the wine. This is good in cases 
of exhaustion. 

Expressed Beef Juice. 

Take one-half pound of steak, cut from top of the 
round. (It must be cut one-third of an inch thick.) 
Wipe steak, remove all fat, and place on broiler. Broil 
over gas flame for three or four minutes. Turn as 
you count ten, to keep the juices in the meat. Put 
on a hot plate, cut into small pieces one and one-half 
inches in size, and gash each piece two or three times. 
Have a warm lemon-squeezer, and lay the pieces on 
and express the juice into a cup or small bowl resting 
in hot water, using care not to have it hot enough to 
coagulate the juices. Season with salt. 

Broiled Beef Tea. 

Dilute the beef essence with warm water. Season 
with cavenne.and salt. 



342 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Bottled Beef Tea. 

li/j pounds steak from 214 cups cold water, 

top of round. Salt to taste. 

Broil the beef five minutes, same as for broiled beef 
tea, and cut into pieces in same way. Place in glass 
jar, turn on the cold water, and let it stand for fifteen 
minutes. Place jar on trivet in kettle, surround with 
cold water, and let it heat slowly to 130° F. Let it 
stand two hours, strain and press all the juice out of 
the meat, and salt to taste. Food for the sick must 
not be made too salt, or it will cause too much thirst, 
and sometimes the water will create nausea. 

Frapped Beef Tea. 

Beef tea frozen to the consistency of a mush is a 
nice change for the patient. 

GRUELS. 

Flour Gruel. 

1 tablespoon flour. 2 cups milk, 
4 raisins. Salt to taste. 

Mix flour with a small quantity of the milk until 
it is smooth. Place the remainder of the milk in 
double boiler, and when scalding hot stir in flour paste 
and add the whole raisins. Cook thirty minutes, and 
remove the raisins. Season, and, if desired, add one- 
third cup of cream. The raisins can be omitted. 

Farina Gruel. 

2 cups boiling water, 1 cup milk. 
1 tablespoon farina. 1 egg. 
Cold water. Pinch salt. 

Cream. 



INVALJD COOKERY. 343 

^lix farina to a thin paste with cold water. Add 
to boilinc: water and boil thirty minutes. Season and 
add cream and egg, mixed, and serve. 

Arrowroot Qruel. 

1 cup boiling water. 2 teaspoons Bermuda 

Cold water. arrowroot. 

Pinch salt. 

Mix arrowroot to thin paste with cold water. Add 
to boilins: water, and cook ten minutes. Season and 
add cream. 

Barley Gruel. 

3 tablespoons barley flour. y_. cup milk or cream. 

1 cup boiling water. Salt to taste. 

Mix barley flour with water to a paste. Add boiling 
water, and boil twenty minutes. Add milk, season, re- 
heat, and strain. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

i/j cup coarse oatmeal. Milk or cream. 

3 cups boiling water. Salt to taste. 

Add salt to boiling water, then the oatmeal, and 
cook in double boiler for three and one-half hours. 
Strain, dilute with milk or cream, and strain again. 
Season, reheat and serve. 

Pounded Oatmeal Qruel. 

% cup coarse oatmeal. Milk or cream. 

1 pint cold water. Salt to taste. 

Pound oatmeal un mealy and white-looking. Add 
one-third of the water, stir well, let settle, and pour 
off the water. Repeat twice, using the remaining water. 
Boil the mealy water in double boiler thirty-five or 
forty minutes. Season with salt, and dilute with milk 
or cream. This makes a very delicate gruel. 



344 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Imperial Qranum. 

1 tablespoon Imperial % cup scalded milk, 

Granum. y. cup boiling water. 

Salt. 

Mix Granum with cold water to form a paste. Add 
to milk and water. Cook fifteen minutes in double 
boiler, and season. The milk can be increased. 

Clam Water. 

Wash and scrub one-half dozen clams, place in cov- 
ered kettle wdth one-fourth cup water, and steam until 
shells open. Remove clams, and strain liquor through 
double of cheesecloth. Serve very hot or freeze to a 
mush. 

Mutton Broth. 

3 pounds mutton (from 2 quarts cold water, 

neck). 3 tablespoons rice or barley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wipe meat well with wet cheesecloth, removing 
every particle of skin and fat. Cut into small pieces, 
and put into kettle with the bones, and cover all with 
cold water. Heat slowly to the boiling-point. Skim 
and season with salt and pepper. Cook until meat is 
cooked to pieces. Strain and remove fat. Reheat to 
boiling-point. Add rice or barley, whichever is to be 
used, and cook tender. If barley is used, it should 
be soaked overnight in cold water. Some nice bits of 
the meat can be served with the broth. 

Chicken Broth. 

Dress and clean chicken, remove skin and fat, and 
disjoint. Put in stewpan, cover with cold water, and 
heat slowly to the boiling-point. Skim and cook until 
meat is tender. When half done, season with salt and 



INVALID COOKERY. 345 

:a little pepper. Strain and remove all the fat (chicken 
fat is hard to digest). There should be three pints of 
the broth if it has been cooked slow enough. The sim- 
mering burner on the gas stove does this nicely. Re- 
heat to boiling-point, and add two tablespoons of well- 
washed rice that has been cooked five minutes, and 
cook until rice is soft. 

Oatmeal Mush. 

XU cup coarse oatmeal. 2 cups boiling water. 

Y2 teaspoon salt. 

Add salt and oatmeal to boiling water. Cook in 
double boiler for three or four hours. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 

Indian Meal Mush. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 cup milk. 

1/. cup Indian meal. 1/, teaspoon salt. 

Add salt to boiling water, and stir in the meal, 

being careful not to have any lumps. Cook three 

hours in double boiler. Serve with cream and sugar, 

or, if preferred, with maple syrup or with salt and 

thin cream. 

Rolled Oats Mush. 

% cup rolled oats. IY2 cups boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Add salt to boiling water, then add the oats and 
cook three-quarters of an hour in double boiler, and 
serve with sugar and cream. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches. 

Butter slices of bread, and use two tablespoons of 
scraped raw beef from the top of the round, seasoned 
with salt and a little cayenne pepper. The butter may 
be omitted, using only the scraped and seasoned beef. 



346 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

Cut verj^ thin slices of stale bread into any fancy 
shape you may desire. Put together in pairs with thor- 
oughly cooked yolks of eggs rubbed to a paste, seasoned 
with salt, and moistened with soft butter. 

Birds Broiled in Buttered Cases. 

Butter a sheet of letter paper. Place a boned bird 
on lower half of sheet; fold upper half over bird, 
bringing the edges of the sheet together, and fold over 
the side and two ends three times. Place in wire 
broiler, and broil twelve minutes over slow fire, using 
care that the paper does not catch on fire. Remove 
from case and season with salt, pepper and butter, and 
place on piece of hot toast. Garnish with parsley and 
thin slice of lemon. Lamb chop, tenderloin of steak 
or breast of chicken may be prepared in the same way. 

Oysters on Toast. 

Place in granite pan or in chafing-dish, one table- 
spoon best butter, one dozen large oysters (with mus- 
cular portion removed), a salt-spoon of salt, and a 
little white pepper. When thoroughly heated, stir in 
three-fourths cup of good cream. (Be sure the cream 
does not boil. ) Serve on hot buttered toast immediately. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Asparagus is especially recommended for diabetics. 
It should be scraped, the stalks cut even, tied together, 
and placed in an upright position in saucepan of boil- 
ing water with a little salt added to the water, and 
cooked until quite tender. Serve on toast moistened 
with some of the water in which the asparagus was 
cooked. Season with a little salt and some melted but- 
ter. I^se the butter sparingly. 



INVALID COOKERY. 347 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Vo pint grated corn. i tablespoon butter, 

li/o pints boiling water. i^ tablespoon flour. 

1 cup thin cream. 

Grate the corn (using young corn), add it to the 
water in double boiler, and cook for one hour. Strain, 
put into saucepan the butter and flour, and cook for 
a minute. Add the strained corn, and return to double 
boiler, and when ready to serve add the cream. Heat 
again, but be sure you do not boil after the cream is 
added. This is for the convalescent. 

Broiled Chicken Breast. 

Remove bones from breast of ^ tender chicken. 
Season and rub with soft butter, and broil in wire 
broiler directly over the fire, so it will get a little flavor 
of burning of the juices and butter. This is sometimes 
very savory. The breast of the chicken is always best 
for the sick, as it is more easily digested. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

1 cup chicken breast. 14 cup sweetbreads. 

Vo cup white sauce. Salt and parsley. 

1 egg, heaten. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces with scissors, also 
the sweetbreads that have been parboiled. Make the 
sauce with one tablespoon butter, one of flour and half 
a cup of milk. Put butter in small saucepan, add fiour 
as soon as frothy, add milk slowly, then remove from 
fire. Add egg, then the minced chicken and sweetbread. 
Spread on tin until cold Shape in croquettes, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain all fat from them 
on paper. Garnisli with parsley, and serve. 



348 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
FOOD FOR CHILDREN. 

THIS subject covers a great deal of ground, and 
I will only add a few recipes with the suggestion 
that one feeding the infant of one or two years of age 
wants to see to it that the food is of the best quality 
and always perfectly fresh, as stale food may produce 
scurvy. The value of fresh vegetables for this trouble 
is as important for the infant as for adults, and as 
soon as they are old enough teach them to take a lettuce 
salad with nice, fresh olive oil ; they soon learn to love 
it. Fresh food in the form of meat juice on bread is 
very good. The infant must not be fed the starchy 
foods until the teeth appear, as the digestive juices are 
not developed until that period in the child's life. 
Fresh, ripe fruit juices are good for the baby. 

Meat Juice on Bread. 

Broil a piece of meat until well heated through, 
and express the juice, with a metal lemon-squeezer, on 
some pieces of bread, and feed the baby very slowly. 
This food is for the three-year-old child. 

Meats Not to Serve. 

Veal, lamb, pork and game. They are all hard to 
digest. 

Meats to be Served. 

Beef, mutton, and white meat of the chicken. 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN. 349 

Fish to be Served. 

Fish wants to be boiled or broiled, and the best are 
the white fish, trout, perch, pickerel and black bass. 

Soups. 

Broths and soups of various kinds can be served with 
rice and barley in them. Potato soup can also be 
served. 

Vegetables. 

Baked potatoes, asparagus, peas and string beans, 
and some varieties of beans without the pod, all should 
be cooked until tender, and seasoned with salt, butter 
or cream, never with sauce. The dried beans are too 
hard of digestion for a child, even at six years of age. 
The vegetables to be served later in the year are the 
onion, spinach and cauliflower. The best onions are 
the Spanish, and they should be boiled or baked until 
very tender. If dressed with sauce, let it be a little 
cream and salt to taste. Children should use less salt 
than adults, as the salt habit is one tnat grows with 
the person. 

Cauliflower is the only one of the cabbage family 
that the child should eat, and wants to be dressed 
same as the onion, using care to cook only until tender. 

Spinach is one of the stand-bys for the nursery 
table for the winter. Directions for cleansing have 
been given in full Onion, cauliflower and spinach are 
all slightly laxative. 

Celery carefully prepared by long stewing, until 
thoroughly tender, can be given, but the nutritive value 
is small. Turnips, beets and carrots can be given ; 
these all want to be thoroughly cooked, and the carrot 
should be put through a sieve. 



350 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Bread and Cereals. 

Bread wants to be a day old at least, and cereals 
well cooked. The ones prepared from wheat are pref- 
erable, although the oatmeal is all right. Then there 
is the Indian meal. Farina and hominy may be served 
to the child old enough to chew well. The rice is very 
useful in the nursery. Macaroni for the nursery wants 
to be served plain, wdth milk or cream. 

Dessert. 

The best desserts for the nursery are some nice 
fruit, or a nice, plain custard or rice pudding served 
cold w^ith milk or cream. The ice-cream w^ould be all 
right so far as composition goes, but the iced tempera- 
ture reduces the action of the stomach, and sometimes 
it stops the digestion for the time being. Only simple 
ice-creams should be given. No pastry should be given 
to the child, and only sponge cake or plain gingerbread. 

Fruits. 

The early use of oranges is good, also stewed prunes. 
Apples are in their best form when cooked. If they are 
served baked, they should be pared before baking, 
or see to it that the child does not eat the skin. As a 
variety, the applesauce is good. The raw apple is apt 
to be hard to digest. Pears are akin to apples, and 
should be served in the same form. The pear of good 
quality is more digestible than the apple. Berries in 
the early years are scarcely to be considered, as they 
disturb the bowels so much. The strawberry, if ripe 
and fine, can be given with caution. I say with great 
caution, for there is no fruit that contains so many 
idiosyncrasies as the beautiful strawberry. G-rapes 
come rather early into use in the nursery", but seeds 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN. 351 

and skins want to be removed. The Malaga is the best 
variety. The melons are of a doubtful character, be- 
cause so many are poor. However, the pulp of a really 
good, ripe melon, if tender, is considered digestible, 
and there is nothing so attractive to the child. As soon 
as they catch sight of it they are filled with delight, 
and I think it should make the first course wherever 
it is served. 

Water and Other Drink. 

Water heads the list of the drinks, and should the 
water supply be doubtful, it should be filtered and 
boiled, and set aside to cool. Milk is always looked 
upon as a food, but it contains water enough to make 
it a quencher of thirst. Water wants to be offered to 
the child when very young, as thirst is often mistaken 
for hunger. Tea and coffee should never be given ; 
wine and beer only with the physician's orders. As 
an article of diet the cocoa beverage may be used, but 
it is better omitted. 

Objection to Sw^eets. 

Candies and sweets should be excluded articles, for 
the reason that as long as the child's diet is made up 
largely of milk he gets an ample amount of sugar, 
and in the cereals he gets a large amount of starch, 
that is converted into sugar by digestion. 



352 SCIENTIFxC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 
FRUITS— FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 

FRUITS are at their best when served ripe and in 
season, cooked on the tree or vine as nature cooks 
and prepares them for us. However, some are more 
digestible by cooking. The methods used are baking 
and stewing, I^Vuit should always be cooked in earthen 
or granite utensils, and stirred with a wooden or silver 
spoon, for the reason that all fruits contain more or 
less acid, and if they are not specially hard, they want 
to be pared with a silver knife. 

To Prepare Strawberries. 

Pick them over and place in a colander, pour over 
cold water, and drain thoroughly. Cap and turn into 
the dish they ta-e to be served from. Chill, and serve 
with powderec sugar and cream if desired. They are 
better with simply the sugar, as they so quickly make 
such a curd ot the cream. 

How to Prepare Oranges. 

Wipe the orange after it has been chilled, and cut 
into halves, or cut off the stem end about an inch from 
the stem, and with a sharp knife cut around the edge 
and loosen the pulp from the rind, and make two cuts 
across the center, cutting the core to the bottom each 
way. Serve on a fruit-plate with an orange spoon to 
right of plate, or the orange may be peeled and the 
white portion removed, and pulp removed in sections 



FKUITS FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 353 

and placed on a fruit-dish. If the orange contains 
seeds, remove the seeds. 

To Prepare Qrape=fruit. 

Wipe grape-fruit and cut into halves crossways. 
With a small, sharp-pointed knife separate the pulp 
from the skin around the entire circumference, then in 
the same way separate the pulp from the tough part, 
which divides it into sections. Remove the core and 
tough portions in one piece, with the seeds, by cutting 
the stem or blossom end with a pair of scissors to the 
skin. Sprinkle generously with sugar, and stand for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on fruit-plate with spoon. 
You can garnish with Maraschino cherries. 

Qrape=fruit with Sherry. 

Prepare as above. Add one tablespoonful of sherry, 
and chill for one hour. You can also use apricot 
brandy, using a little less, or with gin. In either case 
you use less and chill longer before serving. 

Fruit Cocktail. 

Mix grape-fruit with pineapple, orange and Malaga 
grapes, and a few strawberries or cherries. There 
should be three cupfuls of the fruit. Pour over a 
dressing made of one-half cup of sherry wine, three- 
fourths cup sugar and four tablespoons apricot brandy. 
Chill and serve in cocktail glasses. Garnish with 
cherries and leaves. 

To Serve Cantaloupe. 

See that your melons are quite ripe, and the outside 
thoroughly washed and wiped. Chill in ice-box before 
cutting. They can be cut either crosswise or length- 



354 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

wise, according- as fancy may siig^^est. They are pret- 
tier cut crosswise. 

To Serve Pears and Plums. 

Wipe and have them cold, and serve whole for 
breakfast or luncheon. Be sure to place finger-bowls 
for each person, to prevent staining the napkin, and 
a fruit-knife instead of a spoon. 

Baked Apple. 

Select a smooth, well-shaped apple. Wash, wipe 
and remove the core. Put in a baking-dish and fill the 
cavities with sugar, using three-fourths cup of sugar 
to eight apples. A little lemon juice can be used if 
desired, or either nutmeg or cinnamon. AVhen apples 
are fresh and in season, they need no extra seasoning. 
Cover bottom of dish with boiling water, and bake in 
a moderate oven until soft, basting frequently with the 
syrup in the bake-dish. Serve with cream or without, 
as your taste dictates. 

Apples Pared and Baked. 

Kemove the core, pare and place in baking-dish. 
Use three-fourths cup of sugar and a piece of butter size 
of a filbert. Bake until tender, using enough boiling 
w^ater to cover bottom of dish. 

Apple Sauce I. 

Use a bright red apple. Wash, wipe and remove 
any imperfect places and seeds, cut into quarters, and 
put on in enough boiling water to come up in the sauce- 
pan so you can see it. Cook rapidly for some time, 
until ihey are quite tender. Remove from fire and rub 
through colander. Sweeten to taste and serve hot or 



FRUITS — FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 355> 

cold ; the skin will add a nice color to sauce. This sauce 
is nice served hot with goose or pork. 

Apple Sauce II. 

Wash, quarter, core and pare eight tart apples. 
]\[ake a syrup by cooking one cup of sugar and one 
of water for ten minutes. Add enough apples to cover 
bottom of the saucepan. Cook rapidly until apples are 
tender. Remove and place in glass dish in w^hich you 
are going to serve them, place as many more in the 
syrup, and continue until all are cooked and removed 
to serving-dish. Cook syrup for ten minutes rapidly, 
and strain over apples. This sauce is delightful. 

Apple Ginger. 

"Wash, quarter, pare and chop enough apples to 
weigh two pounds. Put in saucepan with one and one- 
half pounds of light brown sugar, juice and rind of one 
lemon, one-half ounce of ginger-root, pinch of salt and 
water enough to keep apples from burning. Cover 
and cook very slowly for three and one-half hours, 
adding water as needed. This wants to be closely cov- 
ered. Keeps a long time. 

Baked Quinces. 

Wipe, pare and quarter ten medium-sized quinces. 
Remove seeds, and put in baking-dish. Sprinkle with 
one cup of sugar and two cups of w^ater. Cover and 
cook in slow" oven until tender. Quinces require a long 
time for cooking. 

Baked Pears. 

Wipe and halve ten nice-sized pears, and remove 
cores. Put in baking-dish, and sprinkle with sugar. 
Add W'ater to prevent their burning. Cover closely. 



356 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

and cook for two or three hours in a very slow oven: 
A casserole is nice to bake them in. The Seckel pear 
is delicious baked; they are baked whole. 

Rhubarb Sauce. 

"Wash, wipe and cut in inch lengths with scissors. 
If you are using the strawberry variety, do not peel it, 
as the peel malvcs a fine color to the sauce. Allow one 
cup of s-ugar to two and one-half cups of the rhubarb. 
Make a syrup with three-fourths of a cup of water and 
the sugar. Boil for three or four minutes, and add 
the rhubarb. Cook until tender. 

JELLIES. 

Jellies ai^e made with fruit juices 'and sugar. You 
prep'are th'e glasses by washing them well, placing 
them in a kettle of cold water, and letting them come 
to a boil. Leave them in the hot water until you are 
ready for them, then drain them and place on a cloth 
wrung out of hot water when putting the jelly in. 
Cover the top of the jelly with paraffin, and when cool 
put on tin top. Label and put -away in a cool, dry 
place. 

Apple Jelly. 

Wash and wipe tart apples. Remove stem and blos- 
som e.nd. Cut into quarters, and place in granite or 
porcelain-lined preserving-kettle. Add cold water to 
cover nearly to the top. Cook slowly until apples are 
soft. ]\Iash and drain through coarse sieve. Avoid 
squeezing the apple or you will have a cloudy jelly. 
Strain the juice through a double thickness of cheese- 
cloth; when all has dripped through, place the juice 
in agate saucepan and cook rapidly uncovered for 
twenty minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated 



FRUITS FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 357 

granulated sugar, boil up five minutes, and turn in 
jelly-glasses, then seal and set to cool. A pared apple 
makes a much lighter jelly. 

Crab=apple Jelly. 

Follow the rule for the apple jelly, leaving the 
apple whole. 

Quince Jelly. 

Follow the recipe for the apple jelly, using quinces 
instead of apples, and remove the seeds from the fruit. 

Currant Jelly. 

Currant jelly wants to be made the last of June, 
not later than the fourth of July; then the fruit is at 
its best. Pick over currants, but do not remove stems. 
Wash and drain. ]\Iash a few in the bottom of a pre- 
serving-kettle ; a wooden potato-masher is the best thing 
for the purpose. Continue until the berries are all 
used, then cook slowly until the currants look white. 
Strain through a coarse sieve, then through two thick- 
nesses of cheesecloth. Measure, bring to boiling-point, 
and boil rapidly for ten minutes. Add equal quan- 
tities of sugar that has been heated in oven in a wide, 
shallow pan. Bring to a boil, and boil for five minutes. 
Turn into your glasses, seal with paraffin cover, and 
place in cool, dry place. 

Currant and Red Raspberry Jelly. 

Use equal parts of currants and red raspberry, and 
follow the rule for the currant jelly. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Follow the rule for the currant jelly, using black- 
berries instead of currants. 



358 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Grape Jelly. 

Grapes should be picked over, washed and stems re- 
moved. Put into preserving-kettle, heat to boiling- 
point, mash, and boil for thirty minutes. Strain 
through the coarse sieve, and proceed same as for cur- 
rant jelly. Wild grapes are best for flavor in making 
the grape jellies for eating with meats. 

Green Grape Jelly. 

Grapes should be gathered just as they begin to 
turn, and you make them same as grape jelly. 

Peach and Apple Jelly. 

Use equal parts of peaches and apples, and pro- 
ceed same as for apple jelly. 

Plum Jelly. 

Use the Damson plum for this jelly. Pick over, 
wash, and prick each Damson with a large needle. Make 
same as currant jelly, using three-fourths as much 
sugar as you have fruit juice. 

Barberry Jelly. 

Pick fruit for this jelly before the frost comes, 
while some of the fruit is still green. Make same as 
currant jelly. 

Blackberry Jam. 

Pick over berries, place a few in bottom of pre- 
serving-kettle, and mash, using a wooden potato-masher, 
and continue until all are mashed. Slowly heat to 
boiling-point, and add equal amount of sugar. Cook 
slowly for one hour. Put in wide-mouthed glass jars 
or tumblers. Seal with paraffin and put on cover to 



FRUITS FRESH, CANNED AND PRESER\^ED, 359 

teep out the dust. Keep in cool, dry place. Paraffin 
can be removed as you use the fruit, washed off and 
used again. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Vse the recipe for blackberry jam, using raspberries 
instead of the blackberry. You can use either the 
*' black-cap" or the red raspberry. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Select sour, smooth-skinned oranges. "Phoroughly 
wash and wipe. Weigh oranges and allow three-fourths 
their weight in cut sugar. Remove peel in quarters. 
Cook until soft in boiling water to cover; drain, and 
with a spoon or silver fruit-knife remove the white 
lining, and with a sharp pair of scissors cut the thin 
yellow portion into fine strips. Divide oranges into 
sections, and remove all tough part and seeds. Put into 
kettle and heat to boiling-point. Gradually add sugar 
and cook slowly one hour. Add peel and cook one 
hour longer. Turn into glass tumblers, and seal. 

Grape=fruit Marmalade. 

Prepare same as orange marmalade, using care to 
remove all the white lining, as it is very bitter, but the 
grape-fruit makes fine marmalade. 

Quince Honey. 

Pare and grate, or grind in food-chopper, six large 
quinces. Add to one pint boiling water five pounds of 
sugar. Stir over fire until sugar dissolves. Add quince 
and cook twenty minutes. Turn into glasses. When 
cold it should be the color and consistency of honey. 



360 SCIENTIFIC COOKING, 



CANNING. 



Canning is preserving fruit that has been st-erilized 
by boiling and placing it in sterilized, air-tight jars. 
Fruit may be canned without sugar, and will keep just 
as well, if it has been sterilized and freed from all 
germ life, -and in some fruits it gives superior flavor 
to leave out the sugar. Such is the case especially with 
the cherries, blackberries, raspberries and rhubarb. 

Fruit for canning wants to be frosh, firm and not 
over-ripe. The over-ripe fruit is apt to hold the germ, 
and this causes fermentation in a very short time. In 
canning fruit where sugar is used, allow one-third its 
weight in sugar and three cups of water to each pound 
of sugar. Cook sugar and water together for ten 
minutes to make a syrup. Skim, and it is ready for 
the fruit. Cook fruit in small quantities at a time, and 
you can keep the fruit in perfect shape. Hard fruit 
such as quinces and pineapple must be cooked in boil- 
ing water until they are soft, then put in the syrup 
and finished. The sterilized jars are then filled with 
the fruit, and enough syrup added to overflow the jar 
and top fastened down. Let it stand until cool, and 
tighten tops the second time, using care that they are 
air-tight. "While filling jars place them on cloth wrung 
out of hot water. Sterilize jars by filling with cold 
water and placing in vessel on a rest of some kind to 
keep them from breaking, and heat to the boiling-point. 

Canned Peaches. 

Wipe peaches and place them in boiling water, and 
let them stand long enough to loosen the skins. Re- 
move skin and cut into halves or cook whole. Add to 
the boiling syrup at once before they discolor. Follow 



FRUITS — FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 361 

directions for canninof. If you prefer, you can peel 
the peach instead of skinning". 

Canned Pine=apple. 

Pare and remove eyes. Cut into slices or cubes, or 
you can shred with silver fork and cook in half their 
weight in sugar without the water and put into air- 
tight jars. This last method is good for making sher- 
bets, fruit punches and fancy desserts. For sliced or 
cubed you follow direction for canning. 

Canned Pears. 

Wash, wipe and pare fruit. Cook whole, or in 
halves or quarters, according to fancy. Two cloves with 
blossom removed and stuck into the pear, or a small 
piece of ginger-root, give an additional flavor, as the 
pear has little flavor of its own after it is canned. 
Bartlett pears are the best for canning. 

Canned Cherries. 

Wash, remove stems, and follow directions for can- 
ning. The large white and red cherries are the best 
for table use, but the old-fashioned Murillo is best for 
pies, and it does not want to be canned until it gets 
almost black on the tree. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Place the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin 
is easily removed. You can put them up whole or cut 
into pieces. If you use them whole, you want to cook 
them longer; in either case they want to be thoroughly 
scalded. 



362 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Strawberry Preserves. 

Pick, wash, drain and cap the berries, then weigh 
them. Allow three-fourths their weight in sugar and 
a cup of water to the pound of sugar; boil to a very 
thick syrup and skim. Drop in the berries a few at 
a time, and cook until they look clear. Remove to 
tumblers, and add more until all are cooked. Cook 
syrup again until thick, and add to the glasses of fruit. 
This way the berry keeps its shape aind color. Always 
choose a dark-colored berry for preserving. 

Damson Preserves. 

Wash and wipe Damsons, and with large neeSdle 
prick them in several places. Prepare syrup same as 
for strawberries, but do not cook so thick. As soon 
as it has boiled a few moments skim and add Damsons 
a few at a time, that they may better keep their shape. 
Cook until soft and clear-looking. Take out the fruit 
and cook syrup until quite thick, and pour in the jars 
or glasses, and seal. 

Brandied Peaches. 

Use free-stone peaches, ripe and firm. Remove skin 
with boiling water as directed. For one peck of peaches 
use half their weight in sugar and one quart of high- 
proof alcohol or brandy. Put alternate layers of 
peaches and sugar in stone jars, and pour on alcohol. 
Lay a piece of linen under cover of jar and cDver 
closely. These are fine with ice-cream. 



FRUITS — FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 363 

PICKLING. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

yn peck White Heath 1 pint vinegar. 

cling peaches. 1 ounce stick cinnamon. 

21^ pounds brown sugar. Cloves. 

Boil sugar, vinegar and cinnamon twenty minutes. 
Dip peaches quickly in hot water, and rub off the fur 
with a crash towel. Stick two cloves into each peach. 
Put into syrup and cook until soft, using half of the 
peaches at a time. Place in a stone jar with a stone 
cover. Cook syrup until thick, and' pour over peaches. 
Pears are pickled in the same way; also Damsons. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles. 

3 pints tomatoes, peeled 5 tablespoons chopped 

and chopped. onions. 

1 cup chopped celery. 6 tablespoons mustard 
5 tablespoons red peppers, seed. 

chopped. 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

% cup sugar. 2 cups vinegar. 

Salt to taste. 

Mix ingredients, put in stone jar and cover. It can 
be used in five or six daj^s, but will keep a long time. 

Chile Sauce. 

12 ripe tomatoes. % cup brown sugar. 

2 onions, chopped fine. 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

2 peppers, chopped fine. 14 teaspoon cayenne pepper. 

2 cups vinegar. Salt to taste. 

Peel and slice tomatoes, and put into preserving- 
kettle with remaining ingredients. Heat to boiling- 
point, and cook slowly two and a half or three hours. 
Put in jars and seal. 



364 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Cucumber Pickles. 

Wipe a gallon of small cucumbers, place them in a 
stone jar, and add a cup of salt dissolved in two quarts 
of boiling water, and let stand two days. Drain off 
brine, bring to boiling-point, pour over the cucumbers, 
and let them stand again for two days. Drain and 
wipe cucumbers, and pour over them one gallon of 
boiling water. Let them stand half a day, and drain. 
Cook the cucumbers in one gallon of vinegar, four red 
peppers, one stick of cinnamon, a teaspoon of cloves 
and a cup of brown sugar for eight or ten minutes. 
Put pickles in stone jar and strain the liquor over 
them. Cover, and they are ready for use. You can 
put them in glass jars if you prefer. 

Chopped Pickle. 

1 gallon chopped tomatoes % cup salt. 

2 teaspoons pepper. ^2 cup white mustard seed. 

3 teaspoons mustard. 4 green peppers, sliced. 

3 teaspoons cinnamon. 3 chopped onions. 

2 quarts vinegar. 

Add salt to tomatoes, cover, let stand twenty-four 
hours, and drain. Add spices to vinegar, and heat to 
boiling-point, then add tomatoes, peppers and onions. 
Cook fifteen minutes after the boiling-point is reached. 
Place in stone or glass jars, and keep in cool place. 

Chow-chow. 

4 pints gre.en tomatoes. 2 quarts string beans. 

1 cauliflower. M pound mustard seed. 
12 small cucumbers. 2 ounces tumeric. 

2 bunches celery. i4 ounce pepper. 

3 cups small onions. Salt to taste. 

3 red peppers. 1 gallon vinegar. 



FRUITS FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 365 

Prepare vegetables and cut into small pieces. Cover 
with salt, and let them stand a day and a night, then 
drain. ITeat vinegar to boiling-point, and cook until 
soft. Add spices about five minutes before removing 
from the fire, as it spoils spices to cook too long. 

Sliced Tomato Pickle. 

1 pe/:k green tomatoes, 1 cup mustard seed 

sliced thin. (brown). 

4 onions, sliced thin. 5 green sweet peppers, 

% ounce peppercorns. chopped fine. 

1^4 pounds brown sugar. 1 cup salt. 

Sprinkle alternate layers of tomatoes with onions 
and salt, and stand overnight. In the morning drain 
and put in preserving-kettle, adding the remainder of 
the ingredients and enough cider vinegar to cover. 
Heat gradually to boiling-point, and boil slowly half 
an hour. 

Mixed Pickle. 

Scald in boiling salted water, until tender, one fine 
head of cauliflower, one pint small white onions, cu- 
cumbers cut into dice, green beans cut into inch lengths, 
and some very small red peppers. As soon as tender 
drain them until dry, pack them in wide-mouthed bot- 
tles or jars, and boil enough good cider vinegar to cover 
them well, using to each pint of vinegar two table- 
spoons of brown sugar, one level teaspoon of salt, two 
tablespoons each of English powdered mustard and 
tumeric, to give a fine color. 

Preparation of Catsups. 

Cook one gallon of choice, ripe tomatoes until you 
can rub them through a strainer fine enough to catch 
the seed. Return them to the fire, and cook until they 



366 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

become quite thick. About twenty minutes before tak- 
ing up add a level teaspoon of cayenne pepper, one 
tablespoon of mustard seed, one-half tablespoon whole 
cloves (with blossom end removed), all tied up in a 
small muslin bag. At the same time add one-half cup 
of brown sugar and a cup of the best cider vinegar. 
Salt to taste. Seal air-tight, either in bottles or jugs. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Use cucumbers suitable for table use — those with 
small seeds. Grate them, salt lightly, and place in a 
bag to drain overnight; in the morning season to taste 
with salt, pepper, a little cayenne and vinegar. Put 
in small jars, and seal tight for use in fall and winter. 
This is a fine sauce to serve with boiled or baked fish. 

Pickles and catsup all want to be kept in a cool, 
dry place, or they are apt to mould. Some say small 
pieces of horseradish will prevent them from moulding. 
It is worth trying. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 367 

CHAPTER XL. 
HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

To CrExVM Butter. — If weather is cold, pour hot 
water in earthen bowl. Measure butter and turn into 
bowl, cut in small pieces, and let it rest for a few 
moments, then work with wooden spoon until soft and 
creamy. If there is any buttermilk remaining in the 
butter, drain it off as you cream. 

To Scald Milk. — Fill lower part of double boiler 
partly full of boiling water, and place milk in upper 
part. Cover and place over flame until the milk forms 
bubbles around the edge. 

Acidulated Water. — This is water to which one 
tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice is added to one 
quart of water. 

Fluid to Remove Spots on Furniture. — Use four 
ounces of ammonia, one ounce of glycerine, one ounce 
of Castile soap (white), and one-half ounce of alcohol. 
Dissolve the soap in soft hot water, using half a gallon. 
Add the remaining ingredients, apply with soft sponge, 
and polish with flannel. This will not hurt the furni- 
ture, and can be applied to dress fabrics — even silk. 

To Butter Cracker Crumbs. — Allow one-fourth 
cup of cracker crumbs to a tablespoon of melted butter. 
Pour on slowly and stir with fork that each crumb 
may be entirely coated. They want to be light and 
easily distributed over the top of the dish for which 
they are to be used. 



368 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

To Extract Juice prom Onion. — Cut piece from 
side of onion, pull back the brown skin, press onion on 
a coarse sieve, and work with a rotary motion. 

To Chop Parsley. — Wash, dry on towel, remove 
leaves, gather very compactly between thumb and fore- 
finger, and with a pair of scissors cut fine as much as 
you wish. This can be done with a sharp vegetable- 
knife, but the scissors are best. 

To Shred Almonds. — Use blanched almonds, and 
cut them lengthwise of the nut. 

To Caramel Sugar. — Put into a smooth granite or 
aluminum skillet, and place over flame and stir con- 
stantly until melted and a light golden color, using 
care not to burn, and keep it free from the pan and 
spoon. You can use as much hot water as you have 
sugar, and cook to a thick syrup and use for sauces, 
creams, etc. 

To Make Glaze. — Four quarts of good stock re- 
duced to one cup. 

To Prevent Salt prom Lumping. — Mix one tea- 
spoon of cornstarch w^ith half a cup of salt. 

Macaroon Crumbs. — Use dry macaroons, pound, and 
sift through coarse sieve. 

To Clean Range After Frying. — If fat spatters 
on the range during the process of frying, clean at 
once with newspapers. 

To Clean Frying-pans that are Used with Fat. — 
Drain all the fat out you can, wipe the articles with 
newspapers, and half the work of cleaning is done.. 

Stains from Claret Wine. — As soon as claret is 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 369 

spilled on a cloth, cover the spot with salt, let stand 
a few moments, and rinse in cold water. 

To Clean Tumblers. — Tumblers in which milk has 
been served should first be rinsed in cold water before 
washing with the hot soapsuds. 

Washing Glass or China in Cold Weather. — Put 
the article in the hot water on the side so the expan- 
sion will be same all over. If the air is very frosty 
and the tumbler is put in on the bottom, it will prob- 
ably break at the point where the hot water reaches, 
from the fact that there is no expansion at the top. 

To Wash Water Bottles.— Fill the bottle half full 
of soapsuds with a little ammonia added to them, and 
use some shot. Shake well for some moments. Empty, 
rinse with hot water, polish outside, and let stand to 
drain and dry inside. 

To Clean Mirrors and Windows. — Rub over with 
chamois skin wrung out of clean hot water, then polish 
with dry chamois skin. This saves much work and 
also strength. 

To Clean Granite Ware. — When mixtures being 
cooked have burned in granite ware, fill vessel with 
cold water about half full, add tablespoonful of soda, 
cover and place on range where it will heat gradually 
to the boiling-point. Empty, and you will find it quite 
easy to clean. >Should the article being cooked be not 
burned, but only stuck, cover it closely and rest on 
cold surface ; the steam that forms from contact of hot 
and cold will loosen the substance so you can take it 
off quite easily. 

To Keep the Sink Drain Free from Grease. — 
Pour down onpe or twice a week a strong solution of 



370 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

lye, using about two quarts of boiling water and about 
half a can of good, strong lye or potash. Put this into 
the waste-pipe when you are leaving the kitchen for 
the night. 

To Clear a Choked Drain. — Should your drain get 
choked, dissolve a fourth of a pound of copperas in two 
quarts of hot water. If the first time does not open it, 
it will be well to repeat before you send for the 
plumber. 

To Remove Grease Spot. — Use cold water and soap 
to remove grease from cotton or woolen goods, or you 
can cover the spots with French chalk. The soap will 
leave a light ring, while the chalk will brush off and 
leave no mark. The chalk is fine for silk. 

To Remoa^ Iron Rust. — Lemon juice and salt are 
good when the rust first appears. Apply the lemon 
juice and cover with salt, and lay in the sun for three 
or four hours. If this is not effective, you can try 
hydrochloric acid. After using the acid, dip the ar- 
ticle in ammonia water to neutralize the acid. 

To Remove Grass Stains from cotton goods, wash 
in alcohol. 

To Remove Ink Stains. — Use hydrochloric acid, and 
rinse in ammonia water. Wet the spot in warm water, 
applj^ soap, rub between the hands, and generally the 
spot will disappear. 

To Clean the Tea and Coffee Pot. — Free the pots 
from the leaves and grounds, wash thoroughly with cold 
w^ater, and occasionally fill pots with cold water to 
which one tablespoon of borax has been added. Heat 
to the boiling-point to remove the discoloration, rinse 
ivith hot water, wipe and dry. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 371 

To Remove Stains from Furniture. — Dip flannel 
cloth in very hot Avater and place over the spot. Re- 
move (juickly and rub with a dry cloth. Repeat until 
the spot is removed. A little alcohol may be used, but 
the work wants to be speedily done. 

Never put the cogs of your Dover egg-beater in 
water. 

To Clean the Ice-chest. — Use lukewarm water in 
which a little washing soda has been dissolved. Never 
use soap. A little Sapolio may be used to remove any 
spots. Should anything be spilled, wipe it out imme- 
diately. All things that have any odor should be put 
in the top of the box ; milk, butter, meats and poultry 
in the bottom. Milk and butter should be kept closely 
covered. 

Clean Piano Keys with soft cloth and alcohol. 

For Burn. — Use equal parts of white of q^^ and 
olive oil, well mixed and applied at once, using old 
linen to cover. If this prescription is followed at once, 
there will be no blister. The cooking soda is fine to 
cover the burned surface, then over this put a soft 
cloth and keep wet with cold water. This stops the 
pain and draws out the fire. 

To Remove Odor of Fish. — Use a solution of am- 
monia and hot water, allowing one tablespoonful to a 
gallon of water. 

To Ventilate a Room. — Place pitcher or small 
bucket of cold water on the table of the sleeping-room, 
and it will absorb the gases that arise from respiration; 
and for the reason that it does absorb gases, you should 
never drmk of water that stands for any length of 
time in a room unless closelv covered. 



372 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

To Prevent and Destroy Ants. — Prepare a solu- 
tion by using half a pound of flour of brimstone and 
one-fourth of a pound of potash. Place them in an 
iron vessel, and put over the fire until they are dis- 
solved, then beat them to a powder. Use a portion in 
some water, sprinkling the places w^here the ants are 
found, and they will vacate at once. Borax and sugar 
mixed together, and placed in a small dish, is good to 
keep them off. 

Deodorizer for Sick-room. — Freshly ground coffee 
placed on a saucer with a piece of gum of camphor 
placed in center, and camphor lighted, will produce a 
pleasant and healthful odor in the room. This I have 
always found satisfactory and economical. 

To Soften Boots and Shoes. — Apply kerosene with 
soft cloth, and you will find they become soft and 
pliable. It will also remove stains from furniture. 

To Remove Mildew. — Soak the article in sour milk 
and salt, and lay in the sun ; or use chloride of lime 
made in solution by using a teaspoonful of lime to a 
quart of water. 

To Free Stove-pipe from Soot. — Put a piece of zinc 
in stove on hot coals, and as it bums it will clear the 
pipe. 

Things Not to Do. 

Never let your fresh meat remain in the papers in 
ice-box. 

Never keep vinegar in anything but glass or earthen 
ware. 

Never use water from hot-water pipe for cooking 
purposes; the gases are gone and the water flat. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



373 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES, 



2 cups butter (packed) 



4 
2 

2% 
SVo 

2% 



flour 

granulated sugar .... 

powdered sugar 

confectioner's sugar . . 

brown sugar 

9 large eggs 

1 square Baker's chocolate 

1/2 cup almonds, blanched and 

chopped 

3 teaspoonfuls 

16 tablespoons 

2 level tablespoonfuls 



flour 



2 gills 

25 drops of liquid 

1 pint finely chopped meat 

4 tablespoonfuls 

2% cups granulated corn meal, 

414 " rye meal 

4% '' cofli'ee 



pound. 



ounce 



1 tablespoon. 
1 cup. 
1 ounce. 
1 ^' 
1 cup. 
1 teaspoon. 
1 pound. 
1 wineglass. 



= 1 pound 



The measuring of the present day, as taught in all 
schools of cookery, is understood to be level, and flour 
is always sifted before measuring. It is understood 
everything is level, which no doubt gives more correct 
measurements. 



874 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

TABLES FOR COOKING. 

Broilins:. 

Time. 
Articles. Hours. Minutes. 

Steak, one inch thick 5 to 6 

Steak, one and one-half inch thick 8 to 10 

Lamb or mutton chops 8 to 9 

Lamb or mutton chops in paper cases 10 

Quail 10 

Quail in paper cases 12 

Chicken (small) 25 

Chicken, large, for plank 25 

Slices of halibut or salmon 15 to 20 

Whitefish, bluefish and shad 20 to 25 

Tripe 5 

Boiling. 

Coffee 2 to 3 

Soft-cooked eggs 3 to 5 

Leg of mutton 2 to 3 

Ham, weight 12 to 14 lbs 4 to 5 

Fowl, weight 4 to 5 lbs 2 to 3 

Turkey, weight 9 lbs 31/2 

Corned beef or tongues 3 to 4 

Cod and haddock, weight 3 to 5 lbs 25 to 30 

Halibut (thick), weight 2 to 3 lbs 35 to 40 

Salmon, weight 2 to 3 lbs 35 to 40 

Lobster 30 to 35 

"White potatoes 25 to 30 

Sweet potatoes 20 to 25 

Asparagus 30 to 35 

String beans 2 to 3 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 375 

Time. 

Articles. Hours. Minutes. 

Lima and shell beans 1 to li/^ 

Young beets 1 

Old beets 3 to 4 

Oysterplant 45 to 60 

Onions 45 to 60 

Cabbage 35 to 60 

Turnips 35 to 45 

Parsnips 40 to 45 

Spinach 25 to 30 

Green corn (young) 8 to 10 

Green corn (old) 12 to 15 

Cauliflower 30 to 35 

Stewed tomatoes 25 to 30 

Brussels Sprouts 20 to 25 

Rice 20 to 25 

Macaroni 20 to 30 

Baking. 

White loaf (small) 30 to 35 

Graham loaf (small) 35 to 40 

Biscuits or rolls (raised) 12 to 15 

Baking-powder biscuit 10 to 12 

Soup sticks 10 to 15 

Gems 25 to 30 

Muffins (yeast) 25 to 30 

Muffins (baking-powder) 20 to 25 

Muffins (corn) 20 to 25 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 

Cookies 8 to 10 

Cake (loaf) 40 to 60 

Cake (layer) 20 to 30 

Cake (pound) li/4 to l^/^ 



376 yCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Time. 
Articles, Hours. Minutes. 

Cake (wedding) 3 

or steam 21/^ 

hours and bake 

in slow oven. . i/2 

Fruit cake 11/2 to 3 

Batter pudding 35 to 45 

Tapioca pudding 1 

Rice pudding 1 

Rice pudding (poor man's) 214 to 3 

Indian pudding 2 to 3 

Plum pudding 2 to 3 

Custard (baked) 35 to 40 

Custard (baked in cups) 20 to 30 

Pies (two crusts and uncooked fruit) 30 to 35 

Tarts 15 to 20 

Vol-auvent 45 to 50 

Cheese straws 6 to 8 

Scalloped oysters 25 to 30 

Scalloped dishes of cooked mixtures 15 to 20 

Baked beans 4 to 6 

Braised beef 31/2 to 4 

Beef, sirloin or fancy rib, weight 

5 lbs , 1 to 114 

Beef, rib or sirloin, weight 10 lbs. 

(this gives rare roast) 1% 

Beef, well done, 5 lbs 11/2 

Beef, well done, 10 lbs 15-6 

Beef rump, rare, 10 lbs 1% 

Beef rump, well done, 10 lbs 2 

Beef (fillet) 25 to 30 

Mutton (saddle) 1^4 to 11/2 

Mutton (leg) . . li^ to 13^ 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 377 

Time. 
Articles. Hours. Minutes. 

Mutton (forequarter) 1 to li/4 

Veal (loin) 3i/o to 4 

Veal (cushion) 3 to 31/2 

Pork (roast) 3 to 31/0 

Chickens (3 to 4 lbs.) I14 to li/o 

Turkey (9 lbs.) 3 to 314 

Ooose (weig:ht, 9 lbs.) 2 to 21/2 

Duck (domestic) 1 to 114 

Duck (wild) 20 to 30 

Partridge 45 to 50 

Grouse 25 to 30 

Fish (weighing from 3 to 4 lbs.) 45 to 60 

Fish (small) 20 to 30 

Frying. 

Muffins, fritters and doughnuts 3 to 5 

Croquettes and fish balls 1 

Potatoes (raw) 5 to 8 

Breaded chops 7 to 8 

Smelt, trout and small fish 4 to 5 

Fillets of fish 5 to 7 

Oysters 1 

Croutons 1 

Length of time in frying depends upon amount of 
exposed surface more than the size of the article to be 
cooked. 



378 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XLI. 
FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKING. 

Aspic. Savory jelly for cold dishes. 

Au gratin. Dishes prepared with sauce and crumbs, 

and baked. 
Allemande (a la). German style. 
Agnean. Lamb. 
Ambrosia. Food for the gods. 
Asafcfida. A bitter, acrid resin used by Asiatics as a 

condiment. 
Avetia. Oats. 
Angelica. A plant the stalks of which are preserved 

for decorating moulds. 
^i VAmericaine. Jn American style. 
A Vancient. In the old style. 
Aurora sauce. A white sauce to which lobster butter 

is added. 
Baha cakes. Cakes made from sweet yeast dough and 

baked in small moulds, and usually basted Avith 

wine as i\\Qj cool. 
Bechamel (a la). Rich white sauce made with stock, 

with the addition of cream just as you go to serve 

it. This addition or infusion of cream was the 

work of the Earl of Bechamel, for whom this 

sauce is named. 
Bisque. White soup made from shell fish. 
Bannocks. Cakes made- of oatmeal or barley, and 

cooked on a griddle. 
Basil. A pot herb used by some in cooking. 



FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKING. 379 

Bay leaves. Leaves from a species of laurel. 

Bearnaise (a la). In Swiss style. 

Beurre noir. Black butter. 

Biscuit glace. Small cakes of ice-cream. 

Blanqueite. White meat in cream sauce. 

Blanch (to). To whiten. 

Bmuf a la jardinere. Braised beef with vegetables. 

Bomhe glace. Moulded ice-cream and ice, or two kinds 
of ice-cream 

Bourgeoise (a la). Family style. 

Bouquet of hobs. Sprig each of thyme, savory, mar- 
joram and parsley. 

Cafe noir. Black coffee. 

Chartreuse. A mould lined with aspic, potatoes or rice, 
and filled in the center w^ith meat, vegetables, nuts, 
etc. Chartreuse means an^^thing concealed. The 
dish is said to have originated with the monks of 
Chartreuse. 

Chateaubriand. The thick cut from the center of a 
large fillet of beef, weighing about one and one- 
fourth pounds. It takes its name from a French 
nobleman with whom it was a favorite dish. 

Chaud-froid. A gelatine sauce in which chicken, game 
and cutlets are masked, and are decorated with 
truffles, whites of eggs, etc. The word means "hot- 
cold." 

Chiffonade. Shredded very fine, cut in ribbons. 

Chives. A variety of small, green onions. 

Chou. Cabbage. 

Chou-farci. Stuffed cabbage. 

Chou-fleur. Cauliflower. 

Chutney. An East India sauce made of fruits, sugar, 
spices and vinegar. 'Tis a fine relish. 

Civet. A sranje stew. 



380 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Compotes. Fruits stewed in thick syrup and kept in 

the original shape by cooking a few at a time. 
Consomme de volmlle. Chicken soup. 
Court bouillo7i. A highly seasoned liquor in which to 

boil fish. 
Creole (a la). Cooked with tomatoes. 
Croustades. Bread cut into shapes and fried, in w^hich 

to serve meats and game or vegetables mixed with 

sauce. 
C routes avx champinous. Fresh mushrooms cooked with 

sauce and served in cases made of French rolls 

fried in butter. 
Crecy (a la). Dishes containing carrots, usually as a 

puree. 
De, d\ Of. 

Dinde farcie. Stuffed turkey. 
Deviled. Seasoned very highly. 
Duchess. Term applied to mashed potatoes mixed with 

yolks of eggs, and made into fancy shape and 

browned. 
Endive. A species of chicory used for salad. 
Eclair. A variety of French cakes made from puff- 
paste, and filled with whipped cream, sweetened 

and flavored, or with cooked custards. 
Entree. Usually served between courses. 
Escarole. Endive with broad leaf. 
Espagnole. A rich brown sauce highly flavored. 
En coquilles. In shells. 
En papillotes. In papers. 
Farci Stuffed. 
Fanchonnette. Dessert baked in tins, and made from 

puft'-paste, and covered with meringue, decorated 

with jelly and preserved fruits. 
Fillet mignons. Slices from fillet of beef. 



FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKING. 381 

Flamande (a la). Cooked with onions, Flemish style. 

Flageolets, French bean (green). 

Flourons. Crescent-shaped pieces of pult'-paste used to 
garnish meat pies, etc. 

Flutes. Finger-shaped rolls. 

Foie-gras, Goose liver. 

Fondue. A dish prepared from cheese and eggs. 

Frappe. Semi-frozen. 

Fromage. Cheese. 

Fondant. Made from sugar and water, and is the foun- 
dation of the French bonbons. 

Gateau. Cake. 

Glace. Iced or glossed over. 

Grilled. Broiled. 

Hachis de hoeuf. Beef hash. 

Homard, Lobster. 

Hoe cake. Made with white granulated cornmeal, salt 
and boiling water, and baked before the camp fire 
on a hoe. 

Tlors-cVanvvres. Side dishes. 

Italienne (a la). In Italian style. 

Jamhon froid. Cold ham. 

Jardiniere. Mixed vegetables. 

Kirsclnvasser. Liquor made from cherry juice. 

Lait. ]\Iilk. 

Laituc. Lettuce. 

Macaroni a la fromage. Macaroni with cheese. 

Maigre. Vegetable soup without stock. 

Maitre cVhotel. Head steward. 

Mango. Stuffed and pickled young melons. 

Maraschino. A cordial or liqueur. 

Marrons. Chestnuts. 

Noir. Black. 



382 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Noyau. A cordial. 

CEufs farcis. Stuffed eggs. 

Omelette mix champignon. Omelet with mushrooms. 

Pain. Bread. 

Panada. Bread and milk cooked to a paste. 

Pate de foie gras. Paste made of fatted goose livers. 

Pommes. Apples. 

Pois. Peas. 

Pommes de tcrre. Potatoes. 

Paidets sautes. Fried chicken. 

Potage. Soup. 

Ragout. Highly seasoned meat-dish. 

Removes. Roasts or principal dishes. 

Rechauffes. Warmed-over dishes. 

Salpicon. Highly seasoned minced meat-dish with thick 

sauce. 
Souffle. Puffed up as omelet, etc. 
Siicres. Sweets. 
Tarte aux pommes. Apple pie. 
Yol-au-veiits. Made of very light puff-paste, and filled 

with creamed meats, fish, etc. They are cut oblong 

in shape as a rule. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 383 

CHAPTER XLII. 
FOOD COMBINATIONS. 

Breakfast Menus. 

Oranges. 

Cream of Wheat with Sugar and Cream. 

Scrambled Eggs. Potatoes, Cut Fine and Fried. 

White Corn Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Baked Apples. 

Oatmeal with Cream and Sugar 

Broiled Ham. Eggs. 

Baking-powder Biscuits. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Grape-fruit. 

Lamb Chops. Creamed Potatoes. 

White Muffins. 

Coffee. 

Bananas. 

Puffed Rice with Sugar and Cream. 

Egg Omelet. Lyonnaised Potatoes. 

Graham Gems Griddle Cakes. 

Coffee. 

Grapes. 

Wheatlet with Sugar and Cream. 

Beefsteak. French Fried Potatoes 

Pop-overs. Coffee. 



384 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Strawberries. 

Bacon and Fried Eggs. Baked Potatoes. 

Wheat Muffins. 

Coffee. 

Cantaloupe. 

Uncooked Cereal with Sugar and Cream. 

Chipped Beef in Cream. 

Hashed and Browned Potatoes. Yeast Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Raspberries. 

Rolled Oats with Sugar and Cream. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel. Sliced Cucumbers. 

Corn Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Pears. 

Triscuits with Sugar and Cream. 

Corn-beef Hash. Buttered Toast. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Blackberries. 

Boiled Rice with Sugar and Cream. 

Dropped Eggs. Waffles with Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Grapes. 

Fried Pan Fish. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. 

Corn Muffins. 

Coffee. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 385 

Wheatena with Sugar and Cream. 

Creamed Fish. Corn Cakes. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

]\rixed Fruits. 

Baked Beans. Brown Bread. 

Sliced Cucumbers. 

Fish Balls. Coffee. 

— X — 

Sliced Peaches in Cantaloupe Cups. 

Cream of Wheat with Sugar and Cream. 

Sliced Cold IMeat. Toasted Brown Bread. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon Menus. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 

Baked Apples and Cream. 

Hot Rolls. Gingerbread. Cocoa. 

— X — 

Creamed Lamb. 

Lettuce Avith French Dressing. 

Wafers with Cheese. Toast. 

Grapes. Cocot*. 

— X — 

Chicken Salad. 

Baking-powder Biscuit. Orange Ice. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Scalloped Oysters. Mayonnaise of Celery. 

Rolls. Coffee. Small Cakes. 



386 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Dressed Watercress. Brown Bread. 

Baked Apples. Tea. 

— X — 

Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Broiled Ham. Scalloped Potatoes. 

White Muffins. 

Pears. Butter Thins. 

— X — 

Cold Roast Beef. Corn Muffins. 

Sliced Peaches. 

Sponge Cake. Coffee. 

— X — 

Oyster Stew. 

Oyster Crackers. Pickles. 

Shredded Cabbage. French Dressing. 

Prune Whip. 

Tea. 

— X — 

Cold Sliced Turkey. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Lettuce with Mayonnaise. 

Cheese Straws. Tea. 

— X — 

Broiled Halibut Steak. 

Tartare Sauce. Thin Cornbread. 

Cucumbers. Coffee. 

— X — 

Beef Stew wath Dumplings. 

Banana Salad. Cherry Pie. 

— X — 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

French Omelet. Bread and Butter, 

Watermelon. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 387 

Lobster, Newburg. 

Graham Muffins. Coffee. 

Strawberry Cream. Wafers. 

— X — 

Cold Sliced Tongue. 

Delmonico Potatoes. Cauliflower Salad. 

Baked Pears. 

— X — 

Sardines. Brown Bread and Butter. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Olives on Ice. Grapes. Cookies. 

Coffee. 



Dinner Menus. 



Vegetable Soup. 

Roast Beef. Macaroni with Cheese. 

Potatoes Browned with Roast. Lettuce Salad. 

Cheese AVafers. Apple Tapioca. 

Whipped Cream. Small Cups of Coffee. 

— X — 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Roast Fowl with Bread Stuffing. 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Celery. Vanilla Ice-cream. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Tomato Soup. 
Baked and Stuffed White Fish. 

Sauce lloUandaise. 
Potatoes in Blocks, Dressed with Butter. 
Onions Stuffed with Celery and Nuts. 
Coffee. 



388 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Clear Soup. 

Roast Lamb with Mint Sauce. Aspara^s. 

Riced Potatoes. Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Cake. Black Coffee. 

— X — 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Maryland Chicken. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

String Beans Dressed with Cream. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Peach Ice-cream in Cantaloupes. 

After-dinner Coffee. 

— X — 

Bisque of Lobster. 

Veal Collops. Mashed Potatoes. Stuffed Egg-plant. 

Corn on Cob. Celery. Cream Pie. 

Coffee. 



Chicken Soup. 

Boiled Salmon with Egg Sauce. 

Cucumbers. Boiled Potatoes. New Peas. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Strawberries. White Cake. 

Black Coffee. 



Cream of Lettuce Soup. 

Broiled Shad. Dressed Cucumbers. 

Potatoes on Halt Shell. 

Asparagus with Drawn Butter. 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce. 

Coffee. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 389 

Clam Bisque. 
Lamb Chops. French Fried Potatoes. 

Spinach Timbals. Lima Beans with Cream Dressing. 
Strawberry Sherbet. Sponge Cake. 
Black Coffee. 
— X — 
Cream of Lima Bean Soup. 
Roast Duck. Potato Stuffing. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes. 
Apple Sauce. White and Purple Grapes. 
'Roquefort Cheese. Crackers. 
Coffee. 
— X — 
Bean Soup. 
Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce. 
Mashed White Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Bermuda Onion Salad with French Dressing on Lettuce. 
Fig Pudding. Lemon Sauce. 
Coffee. 
— X — 

Consomme. 

Fried Chicken. Fried Mush Garnish. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

Plum Sauce. Lettuce Salad. Cheese and Wafers. 

Sliced Peaches. Cake. 

Coffee. 



Raw Oysters. 

Boiled Fowl with Egg Sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. Celery. 

Beet Salad. 

Washington Pie. Coffee. 



390 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Oyster Soup. 
Beefsteak. Mill Creek Potatoes. 

Cauliflower au gratin. 
Shrimp Salad with Mayonnaise on 

Heart Leaves of Head Lettuce. 
Apple Pie with Ice-cream. 
Coffee. 



MENUS FOR FORMAL OCCASIONS. 
Luncheons. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 
Chicken Salad. Stuffed Egg-plant. 
Crisped Crackers, Spread with Cheese. 

Baking-powder Biscuit. 

Charlotte 'Russe. Coffee a la Demitasse. 

Nuts. Raisins. 

— X — 

Fruit Cocktail in Pineapple Cups. 

Breaded Mutton Chops. Cuban Sauce. 

Bread and Butter Folds. Potatoes on Half Shell. 

Romain Salad. French Dressing. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Coffee. Educator Crackers. 



Chafing=dish Suppers 

Oyster Rabbit. 

Shrimp Salad. Celery. 

Fruit Cups. 

— X — 

Mulligatawny Soup (reheated). 

Creamed Sweetbreads with Peas. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 
Shredded Pineapple. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 39.1 

Hallowe'en Supper. 

Whole Wheat Sandwiches. 

Cabbage Salad Served in Cabbage Shell, 

Baked Apples. Gingerbread. 

Coft'ee. Pumpkin Pie. 



Menu for Christmas Dinner. 

Consomme. 

Olives. Celery. Salted Almonds. 

Roast Turkey. 

Gooseberry Sauce with Chestnut Stuffing. 

Sweetbread and Chicken Croquettes. Green Peas. 

Dressed Lettuce with Cheese Straws. 

Plum Pudding with Brandy Sauce. 

Cafe Noir. 

Fruit. Crackers. Nuts. 

Cheese. 



Thanksgiving Dinner. 

Tomato Bouillon. Crisped Crackers. 

Celery. Salted Almonds. 

Roast Turkey. 

Cranberry Jelly. Mashed White Potatoes. 

Onions Stuffed with Celery and Nuts. 

Roast Red-head Duck. Browned Hominy. 

Curled Celery. 

Fruit Pudding. Brandy Hard Sauce. 

Ice-cream. 

Fancy Cakes. Nuts. Raisins. Fruit. 

Half Cups of Black Coffee. 

Crackers. Cheese. 



392 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Menu for Course Dinner. 

Oj^ster Cocktail. 

Consomme a la Royal. 

Salted Almonds. Celery. Olives. 

Chicken and Mushroom Patties. 

Soft-shell Crabs. Tartare Sauce. 

Cucumber Jelly. 

Roast Leg' of Mutton with Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Mashed White Potatoes. 

Creamed Brussels Sprouts. 
Fruit Sherbet. 
— X — 
Canvasback Duck. Hominy Omelet. 

Currant Jelly. Celery. 

Nesselrode Puddin":. Neapolitan Ice-cream. 

Candies. Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



INDEX. 



Almonds, Blanched, 196. 

Roasted, 19G. 

Salted, 196. 
Apples, Baked without par- 
ing, 354. 

Baked (pared), 357. 

Baked with red raspherry 
jam, 238. 

Dumplings, 238. 

Ginger, 355. 

Sauce I., 354. 

Sauce II., 355. 

Tapioca, 230. 
Artichokes, 153. 

Boiled, 153. 

Bottoms, 153. 

Fried, 153. 
Asparagus, 1G9. 

A la Hollandaise, 171. 

Boiled, 170. 

Crustards, 171. 

In white sauce, 170. 

On toast, 170. 

With poached eggs, 171. 

Baking-powder Mixtures, 23. 

Biscuit, dropped, 23. 

Biscuit, beaten, 23. 

Corn egg bread, 25. 

Roly-poly, 23. 
Batters, 185. 

L, 185. 

II., 185. 

III., 185. 
Beans, Flageolets, 106. 

Green or snap, 165. 

Lima or butter, IGG. 

Shelled, 166. 

With bacon, 166. 

Beef, 86. 

Best cuts for beefsteaks, 

88. 



Beef, Beefsteak with oyster 
blanket, 89. 

Beef with Yorkshire tim- 
bales, 91. 

Boiled corned, 94. 

Boiled tongue, 95. 

Braised, 94. 

Braised liver, 96. 

Braised tongue, 94. 

Broiled fillet, 89. 

Broiled liver, 96. 

Broiled tripe, 97. 

Chateaubriand steak, 90. 

Cooking (temperature), 
87. 

Corned, 94. 

Corned hash, 97. 

Creole tripe, 97. 

Divisions, 87. 

Dried beef relish, 95. 

Fillet of beef with vege- 
tables, 92. 

Fried tripe in batter, 9G. 

Hamburg steak, 90. 

Larded fillet, 92. 

Liver and bacon, 95. 

Mignon fillets with sauce,. 
89. 

Pot roast, 93. 

Pressed flank, 93. 

Roast, 90. 

Roast with Spanish sauce, 
98. 

Sauted fillet with mush- 
room caps, 89. 

Stuffed heart, 94. 

Ways, of warming over 
beef, 97. 
Beets, 164. 

Greens, boiled, 164. 

In vinegar, 164. 

Sour sauce. 164. 

Sugared, 164. 



394 



INDEX. 



Beverages^ 262.^ 
Boiling, 10. 
Brains, Calf's, 115. 

Marinade of, 115. 
Bread and Bread-making, 13. 

Baking, 14. 

Boston brown, 19. 

Bread sticks, 18. 

Broche, 25. 

Entire wheat, 17. 

German coffee, 20. 

Graham, 18. 

Hot cross buns, 21. 

Quick, 15. 

Rice muffins, 21. 

Rye, 19. 

Swedish, 20. 

Yeast, 13. 

Yeast muffins, 21. 
Broiling, 10. 
Brussels sprouts, 156. 

With butter, 156. 
Butter, 5. 

Cadbage, 157. 

Boiled, 157. 

Escallop-ed, 157. 

Purple, with wine, 158. 

Slaw, 158. 
Cakes (fancy), 319. 

Almond macaroons, 320. 

Cocoanut macaroons, 320. 

Cocoanut cakes, 319. 

Macaroons, 320. 

Stuffed dates, 320. 
Cakes (sponge), 29G. 

Angel food, 300. 

Cream sponge, 300. 

Hot water sponge, 299. 

Lady fingers, 301. 

Sunshine, 301. 

Sponge d-rops, 302. 

To mix sponge cake, 296. 
Cakes (with butter), 303. 

Chocolate, 305. 

Chocolate marshmallow, 
306. 

Citron, 308. 

Cream, 310. 

Delicate white, 304. 



Cakes, Devil's food, 305. 
Eclairs, 311. 

Fruit, 311. 

Gold, 309. 

Lemon queens, 306. 

My Lady Baltimore, 309. 

My Lady Baltimore fill- 
ing, 309. 

One egg, 303. 

Orange, 304. 

Pound, 307. 

Wedding, 307. 
Canapes, Anchovy, 286. 

Caviare, 287. 

Cheese L, 286. 

Cheese IL, 286. 

Lobster, 287. 

Sardines, 286. 
Candies, Burnt almond, 326. 

Butter-scotch, 321. 

Chocolate caramel, 321. 

Chocolate creams, 322. 

Creamed walnuts, 323. 

Dipped nuts, 325. 
Canning Cherries, 361. 

Peaches, 360. 

Pineapple, 361. 

Pears, 361. 

Tomatoes, 3-61. 
Carrots, 161. 

Border for pea&, 161. 

Creamed, 161. 
Cauliflower, 155. 

A la Hollandaise, 156. 

Fried, 156. 

With cheese, 156. 
Celery, 162. 

Creamed, 162. 
Cereals, 33. 

Boiled macaroni, 39. 

Macaroni with cheese, 34, 

Rice with cheese, 34. 

Rissoto a la Creole, 34. 

Spaghetti a I'ltalienne, 
35. 
Chafi.ng-dish, 327. 

Barbecued ham, 333. 

Broiled sweetbread, 332. 

Clams, a la Newburg, 332. 

Deviled tomatoes, 334. 



INDEX. 



395. 



Chafing-dish, Egg, 328. 

Curried, 328. 

Scrambled, 328. 

With mushrooms, 329. 
Fresh mushrooms, 

sauted, 334. 
French peas, 333. 
Fried oysters, 330. 
Fried tomatoes, 334. 
Fruit Canapes, 333, 
Lobster a la^ Newburg, 

333. 
Mutton with jelly and 

wine, 333. 
Oyster stew, 331. 

Fried, 334. 

Panned, 333. 

With sherry, 330. 
Sardines, 330. 
Shrimp a la Newburg, 

331. 
Tomato rarebit, 332. 
Cheese, 5. 

Chestnuts, Boiled, 195. 
Cup, 197. 
Cutlets, 197. 
Preserves, 197. 
Chicken, 120. 

A la meringo, 126. 

And oysters, 134. 

Boiled, 124. 

Broiled, 123. 

Brown fricassee, 125. 

Creamed, 134, 

En casserole, 127. 

Fried a la Kentucky, 125. 

Gumbo, 129. 

In cream, a la Denver. 

126. 
Jellied, 128. 
Pie, 128. 
Planked, 127. 
Slightly tainted, 124. 
Stuffed, 129. 
To bone, 123, 
To cut up, 122. 
To draw and singe, 121. 
To stuff, 122. 
To truss, 122. 
White fricassee, T25. 



Chicory or endive, 163. 
Chocolate, 269. 

Sweetened, 269. 
Chowders, Clam, 54. 

Clam a la Creole, 53. 

Fish, 53. 

Oyster, 52. 
Clams, 71. 

Cocktail, 76. 

Fried, 82. 

Little neck, 81. 

Roasted, 81. 

Steamed, 81. 
Cocoa, 267. 

Breakfast, 268. 

Reception, 269. 

Shells, 268. 

With brandy, 269 
Coffee. 264. 

Boiled, 266. 

Cafe an lait, 267. 

Filtered, 266. 

Vienna, 267. 
Cookery, 9. 

Combining ingredients,. 
12. 

Measuring ingredients,. 
12. 

The fire, 9. 

Ways of cooking, 9. 
Cookies, 291. 

Almond, 293. 

Chocolate, 293. 

Nut, 293. 
Corn, 168. 

Boiled on cob, 168. 

Fried, 169. 

Fritters, 169. 

Oysters, 169. 

Succotash, 168. 
Crabs, 73. 

Deviled, 73, 

Escalloped, 73. 

Fried (soft-shell), 73. 
Croquettes, Cheese, 181. 

Chestnut balls, 181. 
Chicken, 180. 
Chicken and sweetbread, 
180. 



396 



INDEX, 



Croquettes, Chicken and 
mushrooms, 180. 

Oysters, 183. 
Cucumbers, 171. 

Fried, 172. 

Stuffed, 171. 

Dandelion Greens, Boiled, 

165. 
Desserts (cold), 240. 

Apple snow, 246. 

Banana cream, 244. 

Caramel charlotte, 243. 

Caramel custard, 245. 

Charlotte Russe, 243. 

Cold cabinet pudding, 242. 

Custard (baked), 245. 

Custard (boiled), 24G. 

Fruit salad, 246 . 

Jellied walnuts, 241. 

Lemon jelly, 240. 

Orange jelly, 240. 

Pineapple Bavarian 
cream, 245. 

Snow pudding, 241. 

Strawberry sponge, 244. 

To whip cream, 242. 

Wine jelly, 240. 
Desserts (frozen), 247. 

Freezing, 248. 

General rules for ice- 
cream mixtures, 248. 

Molding, 249. 

Packing, 249. 
Desserts (pastry), 222. 

Banbury tarts, 222. 

Cheese cakes, 222. 

Cocoanut cakes, 223. 

Meringues, 224. 

Meringues with puff 
paste, 223. 

Peach tarts with brandy, 
224. 

Tarts, 224. 
Dinner, Course, 392. 
Doughnuts, 30. 

Quick, 30. 

Raised, 30. 

Eecs, 199. 



Eggs, A la Buckingham, 203. 

A la Creole, 207. 

A la Spanish, 207. 

Au Gratin, 203. 

Boiled, 199. 

Buttered, 203. 

Buttered, with fried to- 
matoes, 203. 

Caramel sauce for nut 
omelet, 208. 

Cheese- omelet, 208. 

Curried, 204. 

Fried, 204. 

In potato shells, 201. 

Nut omelet with caramel 
sauice, 208. 

Omelets, 206. 

Omelet confection, 208. 

Omelets with meats or 
vegetables, 208. 

Plain omelet, 206. 

Poached, 200. 

Poached in tomato sauce, 
201. 

Poached in milk, 202. 

Poached with mushrooms, 
201. 

Scalloped, 204. 

Scrambled a la Creole, 
202. 

Scrambled with Anchovy, 
203. 

Shirred, 202. 

Shirred in batter, 203. 

Souffle, 206, 

Spanish sauce, 207. 

Stuffed, 205. 

Stuffed with chicken in 
ramequins, 205. 

With ham on toast (Wal- 
dorf style), 202. 
Entrees, Aspic jelly, 191. 

Birds in aspic, 193. 

Cheese souffle, 190. 

Cucumber sauce, 192. 

Curried lobster in timbale 
moulds, 193. 

Deviled crabs, 188. 

Deviled oysters, 188. 



INDEX. 



397 



Entrees, Egg custard for as- 
pic, 198. 

Fillets of chicken, 189. 

Moulded salmon with cu- 
cumber sauce, 192. 

Quail pie, 190. 

Rules for aspic, 191. 

Shad roe, tartar sauce, 
188. 

Sweetbreads a la Span- 
ish, 188. 

Sweetbread and chicken 
cutlets, 181. 

Fillings, 312. 

Chocolate, 313. 
Chocolate cream, 312. 
Cocoanut, 313. 
Cream I., 312. 
Cream filling with straw- 
berries, 312. 
Date, 312. 
Fig, 314. 
Lemon, 313. 
Pineapple, 315. 
Fish, 57. 

Baked, 60. 

Baked halibut steak, G2. 

Boiled, 57. 

Broiled finnan chops, GG. 

Codfish balls, 65. 

Creamed codfish, 65. 

Curry of fish, 67. 

Fillets of flounder, 62. 

Fillets of haddock with 

oyster stuffing, 60. 
Fried smelts, 67. 
Haddie, 65. 
Oyster sauce, 61. 
Oyster stuffing, 61. 
Pan fish, 68. 
Planked shad, 63. 
Shad roe with tartar 

sauce, 63. 
Stuffed haddock with 

oyster sauce, 61. 
Stuffing for baked, 60. 
Tartar sauce, 64. 
To cook salt mackerel, 64. 
To skin and* bone, 58. 



Fish, Turbans of halibut, 64. 

Whitebait, 68. 
Fondants, 321. 
Coffee, 324. 
Glace fruits, 326. 
Hoarhound, 321. 
Ice-cream, 321. 
Maple, 325. 
Mint creams, 325. 
Syrup for confections, 

323. 
Syrup for glace nuts and 

fruits, 325. 
WTiite, 324. 
Food, 1. 

Butter, 5. 
Diet, proper, 2. 
Inorganic, 1. 

Milk, composition, etc., 4. 
Organic, 1. 
Salts, 3. 
Sugar, 3. 
Water, 2. 
Food combinations, 383. 
Food for children, 348. 
Bread and cereals, 350. 
Desserts, 350. 
Drinks, 351. 
Fish to be served, 349. 
Meat juice on bread, 348. 
Meats not to be served, 

348. 
Meats to be served, 348. 
Objection to sweets, 351. 
Soups, 349. 
Vegetables, 349. 
French terms used in cook- 
ery, 378. 
Fritters, Apple, I., 186. 
Apple, II., 186. 
Banana, 186. 
Cauliflower, 187. 
Clam, 187. 
Fruit, 186. 
Tomato, 187. 
Frogs, To fry, 75. 
To prepare, 75. 
Frostings, 314. 
Boiled, 316. 
Boiled chocolate, 316. 



398 



INDEX. 



Frostings, Brown sugar, 316. 
Chocolate, 315. 
Cream, 315. 
Lemon, 315. 
Opera caramel, 317. 
Orange, 314. 
Ornamental, 317. 
Red raspberry, 314. 
Strawberry, 314. 
Fruits, 6. 

To prepare and serve 

raw, 6. 
Where they came from 

originally, 8. 
Cantaloupe, 353. 
Cocktail, 353. 
Grape fruit, 353. 
Oranges, 352. 
Pears and plums, 354. 
Fruit punches, 270. 
Club I., 270. 
Cherry, 271. 
Claret cup, 271. 
Champagne, 271. 
Unfermented grape juice, 

270. 

Game, 131. 

Belgian hare, baked, 134. 

Broiled quail, 132. 

Broiled venison steak, 
132. 

Canvasback duck, 131. 

Fried plover, 138. 

Guinea fowl, 132. 

Quail pie, 134. 

Saddle of venison, 132. 

Warmed-over dishes, 134. 
Gingerbread, 291. 

Ginger snaps, 292. 

Sour milk, 291. 

Soft molasses, 291. 

Sugar, 291. 
Goose, Roast, 131. 

With potato stuffing, 131. 
Griddle cakes, 27. 

Bread, 28. 

Buckwheat, 29. 

Entire wheat, 27. 

Flannel, 27. 



Griddle cakes. Rice, 28. 
Rice Waffles, 29. 
Sour milk cakes, 28. 

Ham. 118. 

Boiled, 119. 

Broiled, 118. 

Ham and eggs, 119. 
Household hints, 367. 

Ice-creams, 252. 

Baked Alaska, 256. 

Biscuit Tortoni, 261. 

Bisque, 255. 

Bomb glace, 259. 

Cafe Parfait, 258. 

Caramel, 254. 

Chocolate, 254. 

Chocolate sauce, 253. 

Claret sauce, 258. 

Coffee, 254. 

Coffee mousse, 260. 

French, 253. 

Frozen pudding, 256. 

Ginger, 255. 

Kresch wasser frapp6, 

257. 
Macaroon, 255. 
Maple parfait, 260. 
Maraschino or ladies' 

punch, 258. 
Mousse marron, 260. 
Neapolitan, 256. 
Nesselrod pudding, 259. 
Peach, 256. 
Pistachio, 256. 
Punch, 258. 
Strawberry, 255. 
Strawberry mousse, 258. 
Sultana roll with claret 

sauce, 258. 
Tom and Jerry pudding, 

257. 
Tom and Jerry punch, 

257. 
Vanilla, 253. 
Ices, 250. 

Apricot sorbet, 251. 
Cardinal punch, 252. 



INDEX. 



399 



Ices, Chocolate- with whippe'd 

cream, 251. 
Creme de menth, 251. 
Currant and^ red raspber- 
ry, 251. 
Currant sherbet, 250. 
Pineapple with cream, 

252. 
Roman punch, 252. 
Invalid cookery, 335. 

Albuminized milk, 340'. 
Apple water, 335. 
Asparagus on toast, 346. 
Barley water, 337. 
Bottled beef tea, 342. 
Broiled beef tea, 341. 
Broiled birds in buttered 

cases, 346. 
Broiled chicken breast, 

347. 
Chicken croquettes, 347. 
Cotoa cordial, 341. 
Cream of corn soup, 347. 
Drink in sick-room, 339. 
Egg-nog, I., 340. 
Egg-nog, II., 340. 
Expressed beef juice, 341. 
Flaxseed lemonade, 339. 
Trapped beef tea, 342. 
Grape juice. 338. 
Gpu.els and broths, 342. 

Arrowroot, 343. 

Barley, 343. 

Chicken broth, 344. 

Clam broth, 344. 

Farina, 343. 

Flour, 342. 

Imperial granum, 344. 

Mutton broth, 344. 

Oatmeal, 344. 
Hot-water egg-nog, 341. 
Koumiss, 340. 
Lemonade. 339. 
Milk punch, 340. 
Mushes, Indian meal, 345. 

Oatmeal, 345. 

Rolled oats, 345. 
Oatmeal water, 339. 
Orangeade, 339. 
Rice water, 337. 



Invalid cookery, Sandwiches, 

Eg^ 346. 

Raw beef, 345. 
Syrup for sweetening, 

339. 
Tamarand water, 338. 
Toast water, 338. 

Jams. 358. 

Blackberry, 358. 

Grape fruit, 359. 

Orange, 357. 

Quince, 359. 

Quince honey, 359. 

Raspberry, red and 
black, 359. 
Jellies, 356. 

Apple, 357. 

Apple and peach, 358. 

Barberry, 358. 

Blackberry, 357. 

Crab-apple, 357. 

Currant, 357. 

Currant and red ras-pber- 
ry, 357. 

Grape, 357. 

Green grape, 358. 

Plum, 358. 

Lamb, 106. 

Crown roast of, 110. 

Kidneys, 112. 

Minced lamb on toast, 
112. 

Roast, 110. 

Scalloped, 112. 
Lettuce, 163. 
Lobsters, 71. 

A la Americaine, 84. 

Baked live. 84. 

Boiled, 73. 

Broiled, 83. 

Canapes, 85. 

Cocktail, 82. 

Curried, 83. 

Deviled, 82. 

Farci, 83. 

Newburg, 84. 

Patties. 85. 

Plain, 82. 

Scalloped, 83. 



400 



INDEX. 



Lobsters, To determine the 
freshness of, 72. 
To open, 72. 
With mushrooms, 85. 

Menus, For breakfasts, 383. 

Chafing-dish supper, 390. 

Course dinner, 392. 

Dinners, 387. 

Hallowe'en supper, 391. 

Luncheons, 385, 390. 

Thanksgiving dinner, 391. 
Meringues, 224. 

Meringue L, 225. 

Meringue IL, 225. 

Meringue kisses, 225. 

With ice-cream, 226. 

With nuts, 226. 
Muffins, 24. 

Berry, 24. 

Corn, 25. 

Fadges, 26. 

One-egg, 24. 

Pop-overs, 26. 

Rice, 24. 
Mushrooms, 146. 

To prepare, 147. 
Mutton, Boiled leg, 106. 

Boned and stuffed leg of 
roasted, 109. 

Broiled chops, 107. 

Chops a la Maintenon, 
108. 

Curried, 110. 

Curry sauce. 111. 

M u s h r oom preparation 
for Maintenon chops, 
108. 

Pan-broiled chops, 108. 

Scotch broth, 111. 

Oysters, Broiled, 78. 
Cocktail, 73. 
Fancy roast, 77. 
Fried, 79. 
Fried in batter, 79. 
In bacon blankets, 79. 
In brown sauce, 78. 
In cream, 77. 
On the half-shell, 76. 



Oysters, Roasted, 77. 
Sauted, 78. 
Scalloped, 78. 
Stew, 76. 

With cabbage slaw, 80. 
With celery, 80. 
With Philadelphia relish, 
80. 

Parsnips, 173. 

Fritters, 173. 
Pastry, 209. 

Entire wheat for salads. 
213. 

Flaky paste, 212. 

Patty shells, 211. 

Plain paste, 212. 

Puff paste, 210. 

To bake, 211. 

Vol-au-vents, 212. 
Peppers, 173. 

Stuffed, I., 174. 

Stuffed, 11., 174. 
Pickling, 363. 

Chile sauce, 363. 

Chopped, 364. 

Chow-chow, 364. 

Cucumber, 364. 

Minced, 365. 

Preparation of catsup. 
365. 

Ripe tomatoes, 363. 

Tomato catsup, 365. 
Pies, 214. 

Apple, 215. 

Apple custard, 216. 

Blueberry, 216. 

Cherry, 220. 

Cranberry, 216. 

Cream I., 218. 

Cream IL, 219. 

Currant, 217. 

Custard, 217. 

Lemon, 218. 

Mince, 220. 

Mincemeat, 221. 

Peach I., 219. 

Peach II. , 220. 

Prune, 218. 

Pumpkin, 219. 



INDEX. 



401 



Pies, Raisin, 216. 
Rhubarb, 217. 
Squash, 219. 
Pork, 116. 

Breakfast bacon, 118. 
Chops with apple sauce, 

117. 
Roasted, 116. 
Roast sparerib with ap- 
ples, 117. 
Sausage, 119. 
Sausage with fried ap- 
ples, 119. 
Tenderloin, 118. 
Potatoes (white), 148. 
Baked, 148. 
Boiled, 148. 
Croquettes, 149. 
Curls for garnish, 151. 
Delmonico, 150. 
Duchess, 148. 
Escalloped, 150. 
French fried, 149. 
Hashed and browned, 151. 
Lyonnaised, 152. 
Mashed, 149. 
Mill Creek, 150. 
O'Brion, 149. 
Sweet, 151, 152. 
Baked, 151. 
Broiled, 152. 
Candied, 151. 
Croquettes, 152. 
Mashed, 152. 
With wine, 151. 
Poultry and game, 120-134. 
Preserved brandied peaches, 
362. 
Damsons, 362. 
Strawberries, 362. 
Puddings (hot), 230. 
Apple tapioca, 230. 
Blueberry, 234. 
Chocolate, 235. 
Chocolate Souffle, 233. 
Corn, 231. 
Cottage, z32. 
Custard souffle, 232. 
English plum, 237. 
Fig, 236. 



Puddings, French fruit, 236. 
Graham, 235. 
Indian, 230. 
Orange puffs, 231. 
Peach tapioca, 231. 
Raisin roly-poly, 233. 
Rice, 230. 

Scalloped apples, 232. 
Snowballs, 235. 
Steamed berry, 234. 
Suet, 236. 

Quail, Broiled, 132. 

Pie, 190. 
Quinces, Baked, 355. 
Quince jam, 359. 

Jelly, 357. 

Rhubarb Sauce, 356. 

Salads, 276. 

Asparagus, 278. 

A la Normandy, 279. 

Banana, 282. 

Bermuda onion, 285. 

Brazilian, 281. 

Cabbage, 278. 

Celery, 277. 

Cheese. 285. 

Chicken, 284. 

Chicken and sweetbread, 
285. 

Crabs in tomatoes, 283. 

Cucumber and tomato, 

277. 
Cucumber cups with let- 
tuce, 277. 
Cucumber jelly, 281. 
Cucumber to serve with 

fish, 277. 
Egg, 281. 
Endive, 278. 

Fish with cucumbers, 284. 
Lettuce, 276. 

Lettuce and tomato, 276. 
Lobster, 283. 
Orange, 282. 
Oyster, 284. 
Pimento, 285. 
Potato, 278. 



402 



1 



INDEX. 



Salads, Russian, 279. 

Sardine, 282. 

Shrimp, 283. 

Solferino, 279. 

'Stuffed tomatoes, 279. 

Sweetbread and cucum- 
ber, 282 

Tomato jelly, 280. 

Tomato with horseradish, 
280. 

Waldorf Astoria, 281. 

Water cress, 277. 

Salad Dressings, 272. 
Boiled. 274. 
Cream, 274. 

Cream mayonnaise, !.*76. 
Curry, 275. 
French I., 273. 
French II., 274. 
Green mayoun:ii.^e, 2TG. 
Horseradish, 274. 
Quick mayonnaise, 275. 
Red mayonnaise, 276. 
Whipped cream with 
lemon juice, 275. 
•Salsify or oyster plant, 172. 
Fritters, 172. 
In cream sauce, 172. 
Sandwiches, 287. 

Bread and butter folds, 

288. 
Chicken, 289. 
Chopped ham, 288. 
Cottage cheese and cress, 

290. 
Deviled ham, 290. 
Egg, 288. 
Ginger, 289. 
Japanese, 290. 
Orange, 290. 
Rolled bread, 288. 
Sauces (fish and meat), 135. 
Apple, 144. 
Allemande, 137. 
Bechamel, 137. 
Bread sauce for partridge 

and grouse, 44. 
Brown, 13S. 



Sauces, Brown mushroom, 138. 
Caper, 137. 
Celery, 141. 
Cranberry, 144. 
Cream, 136. 
Cucumber with whipped 

cream, 141. 
Currant, 139. 
Curry, 144. 
Drawn butter, 137. 
Egg, 44. 

Hollandaise, 142. 
Hollandaise for chops, 

142. 
Lobster butter, 141. 
Maitre de Hotel butter, 

142. 
Mint, 143. 

Mushroom and tomato, 
144. 

Olive, 140. 
Orange, 139. 

Oysters, 140. 
Piquant, 138. 

Spanish, 140. 

Tartar, 141. 

Tartare, 143. 

Tomato, 138. 

Tomato Cream, 140. 

Veloute, 136. 

White sauce I. (thin), 
136. 

White sauce II., 136. 

White sauce III., for cut- 
lets and croquettes 
(thick), 136. 
Sauces (pudding), 227. 

Brandy, 229. 

Caramel, 229. 

Cream, 227. 

Foamy, 229. 

Lemon I., 227. 

Liquid lemon II., 227. 

Orange, 227. 

Red raspberry, 228. 

Strawberry, 228. 

Wine, 228. 
Shortcakes, 31. 

Strawberry, 31. 

To make the sauce, 31. 



INDEX. 



403 



Shortcakes, To prepare the 

berry, 31. 
Soup stocks, 36. 
Bisque, 36. 
Bouillon, 36. 
Broths, 36. 
Brown, 36. 
Cream, 36. 
Purees, 36. 
White, 36. 
To bind soups, 37. 
To clear soups, 37. 
Bouillon, 38. 
Bouillon, tomato, 38. 
Bouillon, tomato with 

oysters, 38. 
Chicken, 39. 
Chicken broth, 40. 
Consommes, 44. 

Aux pates, 45. 

A la royale, 45. 

Princess, 45. 

With poached egg, 45. 
Cream, 40. 

Asparagus of cream, 41. 

Cauliflower of cream, 
40. 

Celery of cream, 42. 

Lettuce of cream, 41. 

Spinach of cream, 42. 

Tomato of cream, 51. 
Mock turtle, 43. 
Mulligatawny, 43. 
Portage a la Reine, 40. 
Scotch broth, 42. 
Soups with fish stock, 45. 
Clam bouillon, 46. 
Clam with poached eggs, 

45. 
Lobster bisque, 47. 
Oyster, 46. 
Oyster stew, 46. 
Scallop stew, 47. 
Soups without stock, 48. 
Bean, 49. 
Black bean, 48. 
Celery. 49. 
Corn, 48. 
Pea, 48. 
Potato, 50. 



Soups without stock, Split 
pea, 50. 

Squash, 51. 

Tomato, 51. 

Vegetable, 52. 
Spinach, 174. 

A la Bechamel, 175. 

Boiled. 175. 

Puree, 175. 
Stuffing, 129. 

Chestnut, 130. 

Oyster, 130. 
Sweetbreads, 113. 

Braised en casserole, 114. 

Broiled, 114. 

Creamed, 113. 

Creamed, and chicken, 
114. 

Cutlets witb asparagus 
tips, 114. 

Fried, 114. 

Larded, 115. 

Sauted, 114. 

Tables, Time, for cooking, 
374-377. 

For baking, 375. 

For boiling, 374. 

For broiling, 374. 

For cooking, 374. 

For frying, 377. 

Of weights and measures, 
373. 
Tea, 262. 

Five o'clock, 264. 

Iced, 264. 

Russian, 264. 

To make, 263. 

With mint, 264. 
Terrapin, 75. 

To dress, 75. 

To stew, 75. 
Timbales, 183. 

Chicken, 184. 

Lobster, 184. 

Swedish timbale batter, 
183. 
Toast, 22. 

Brown bread, 22. 

Cream, 22. 



404 



INDEX. 



Toast, Dry, 22. 

For garnishing, 23. 

Milk, 22. 

Water, 22. 
Tomatoes, 176. 

Broiled, 178. 

Deviled, 179. 

Fried, 178. 

Scalloped, 177. 

Stewed, 177. 

Stewed a la Spanish, 177. 

Stuffed, 178. 

To prepare, 177. 



Truffles, 146. 

To prepare, 147. 
Vegetables, 145-179. 

Care of, 145. 

Cooking of, 146. 
Wafers, 291. 

Hermits, 292. 

Rolled, 294. 

Sand tarts, 294. 

Vanilla, 292. 
Water, to distill, 2. 

To drink, 2. 

To freeze, 2. 




Opnf [rpp I NEW RECIPE BOOKLET 

OCIII riGCl Beautifully illustrated; contain- 
ing recipes specially prepared by Mrs. Janet 
McKenzie Hill, Miss Parloa and other noted 
teachers, for using 

WALTER BAKER & GO.'S 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

in a great variety of Home-Made 
Candies and Dainty Dishes. 

130 Years 

of constantly increasing sales 



52 Highest Awards 

in Europe and America 





VAN'S CELEBRATED STEEL RANGES 

FOR HOTELS, RESTAURANTS AND INSTITUTIONS 

GENERAL KITCHEN OUTFITTERS 

All Kinds of Fancy Moulds and Cutters 

KIF^TH AND BROADWAY, CINCIIMIMATI, OHIO. 



WE ARE AGENTS FOR 

THE JONES 
DAIRY FARM 
PRODUCTS 



R.j.in'Q.»">^» IV 



QtttO. ' 




Little Pig Sausages, Buckwheat 
Flour, Hams and Bacon, Mission 
Garden Ceylon Tea, Blue Band 
Brand of Teas and Coffees, Miner- 
al Waters, Ginger Ales, etc. 



R. J. McCOMBS 

Orocer and Importer 

S. E. Cor. Fourth and Sycamore Sts. Cor. Rockdale and Burnet 
Aves. Reading Road and Rockdale Ave. 



IN all receipts in this book calling for bak- 
ing powder use " Royal." Better and 
finer food will be the result, and you will 
safeguard it against alum. 

In receipts calling for one teaspoonful of 
soda and two of cream of tartar, use two 
spoonfuls of Royal, and leave the cream of 
tartar and soda out. You get the better food 
and save much trouble and guess work. 

Look out for alum baking powders. Do 
not permit them to come into your house 
under any consideration. They add an in- 
jurious substance to your food, destroying in 
part its digestibility. All doctors will tell 
you this, and it is unquestionable. The use 
of alum in whiskey is absolutely prohibited ; 
why not equally protect the food of our 
women and children ? 

Alum baking powders may be known by 
their price. Baking powders at a cent an 
ounce or ten or twenty-five cents a pound are 
made from alum. Avoid them. Use no 
baking powder unless the label shows it is 
made from cream of tartar. 

W 93 



SWANS DOWN 
T^ CAKE FLOUR 




Makes 

Lightest, 

Whitest; 

Finest 

Cakes 



IGLEHEART BROS.. Evansville. Ini 



THE 



Aristocrat of Olive Oils 



micelle 

©live 0il 



THE IDEAL OLIVE OIL FOR 

MEDICINAL AND 

TABLE USE 



Two Housebold Necessities 

"The Christy 
Kitchen Spatula," 

*'The Christy 
iVIayonnaise 
Mixer." 

MANUFACTURED BY 

THE CHRISTY KNIFE CO., 

FREMONT, O., U. S. A. 













. -^'J''^- 










'■/ "J^^ *♦ 
















,•1' 







.V.' ^0- 



'^^A' 



V-i' 


















>^ •^•' .<»*' 




}.°-n*.. 



** '-Tr,-' # 



V *_. 



'"^^c,^ 



.•»■ 












V^\!i 



: .r^^^ ^^mmJ .f \ ^% 










' i^-. \^^^ ''^•' \/ :m&'. %. 















wa^^^^^^ 








ssiitiiiiiiiii 

steiiaa liiiiii 




fc^'ifsii!? iipiiiif ip&iy^^^^ 






# i» ® 



''"uw^ ^W 



iiiiiiiii^i^^H:' 










:'^ :■>-: 






CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 





3 1924 084 882 467 



NOT HOW CHEAP—BUT HOW GOOD 



A-B Gas Ranges 

The Finest Gas Range in the World 






No. 44. A^-B Full Tile Range 

A Model of Compacftiess and Efficient Cooking 

Equipment 

Sanitary — Economical — Convenient — ^Beautiful 

A-B STOVE COMPAnV, BATTLE CREEK. MICH. 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 




We Are Exclusive 

Saint Louis Distributors 

of the A-B Gas Ranges 



V 



WI 

fa 



m( 



FI 



J 



ALBEUT R. MANN LIBIRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 



GRAND-UJ^ER 

SIXTH -WASHINGTON -SEVENTH &- LUCAS 



the 
ige. 



ped 
itis- 



the 



DE 






^ 



Visit the Largest Day-Light 

HOUSEWARES STORE 

In Saint Louis 

HERE the housewife will find every needful, 
and scores of inventions that help to relieve 
the housewife much unnecessary work, just as 
soon as they are brought out. 



Special values will be found from day to day 
in many Home Needs, and the best standard makes 
of articles are always priced lower than you will 
find elsewhere. 



Watch the papers from day to 
day for specific instances of un- 
usual savings in this department. 



J. 



GRAND-LEADER 

SIXTH-WASMINGTON-SEVENTM &- LUCAS 






Aid 

A-B ST0¥EuO@rprERSEb 



AWARDED 



Two Gold Medals 




Highest Possible Awards 

At Both Expositions 

Panama-Pacific International 
Exposition 

SAN FRANCISCO 



Panama - California Exposition 

SAN DIEGO. CAL. 

1915 




The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924084882467 




NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 



THE FINEST 

GAS RANGE 

IN THE WORLD 








"""W^ 



No. 39-B. 

All the castings Polished Aluminum; other parts White Porcelain 
Enamel. The oven and inside of canopy lighted by either gas or 
electricity, so that the top cooking surface may be light on the darkest 
day. or the baking in the oven easily seen through the glass door. 

A beautiful up-to-the-minute stove for those who vifant the best. 

Easy to Clean — Simple to Operate — Beautiful in Design and Fin- 
ish — Sanitary in every Detail. 




,45 EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 






NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 



THE A-B 
IS THE STANDARD 

GAS RANGE 
OF 

THE WORLD 



The wonderful success and popularity of 
A-B GAS RANGES have led many other 
manufacturers to imitate them in an endeavor 
to profit from A-B reputation. We say imi- 
tate, for no other range begins to compare 
with the beauty of desig^i and finish, or the 
practical, economic or sanitary features of 
the A-B. 

A-B RANGES are made by skilled me- 
chanics, under the direct supervision of 
America's foremost designers, in the finest 
and most modern plant in the world ; devoted 
exclusively to the making of high-grade gas 
ranges. Result — ^the finest gas ranges in the 
world. 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 






NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 



A-B Tank Water Heater 




GAS 
FOR 
FUEL 




HOT 

WATER 

QUICKLY 




Furnishes More Hot Water 

and Quicker Tlian Any 

Other Tank Heater 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 





NOT how CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 




Plenty of 
Hot Water Almost Instantly 



ENOUGH 
FOR A 
BATH 
INs 
TO 7 
MINUTES 



A TANK 
WATER 
HEATER 
NEW AND 
BETTER 




ORDER ONE 




AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 






NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 

Directions for Using 

A-B Gas Ranges 



How To Save Gas 

Never light top burners until you are ready to use 
them. 

Never leave a burner lighted because you are go- 
ing to use it soon. Turn it out and light it again. 

Matches are cheaper than gas. 

Have burners adjusted so the fire will not spread 
beyond a nine-inch circle. A large flame does not 
indicate great heat. 

The color of the flame must be greenish-blue'. Not 
yellow or red. 

How To Keep Range Clean 

Great attention has been given to make A-B Gas 
Ranges sanitary and easy to clean. If the burners 
and grates become clogged with grease and dust, boil 
them in water in which there is a little vrashing soda. 

Clean broiling pan and rack each time it is used. 

Wash the enameled parts of the range with a 
damp cloth and remove the clean-out tray under top 
burners every day. After removing dirt and cooking 
stains, rub the black enameled parts with an oiled rag. 

Flue Connection 

We recommend that a flue connection to a chimney 
be made if possible. This will help keep the range 
and kitchen clean, and dirt, heat, and cooking odors 
will be carried up the chimney, . 

The more care you give the range, the brighter and 
cleaner it will look and the longer it will last. 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 





Copyright, 19U, 
by 

tiABAH E. WOODWOBTH CBAie, 



ELU5 PUBLISHING COMPANY 

PRINTERS. EUECTROTVPERS, BINDERS 

BATTL'E. creek. MICHIGAN 



Introduction 

THOSE who have made 
domestic cooking a study 
will appreciate the purpose 
we have in presenting this 
book, and will prize it for its 
real worth. 

Miss Sarah E. Craig, au- 
thor of this great book, de- 
voted a lifetime to the study 
of Scientific Cooking with 
Scientific Methods. This 

volume has rendered invalu- 
able service to thousands, and 
we earnestly hope it will be 
of great value to you. 

Miss Craig takes great 
pleasure in indorsing the A-B 
to be the world's most sani- 
tary and ecottomical gas 
range. 



Oh, hours of all hours, the most blessed upon earth, 
Blessed hour of dinner. 

***** 
We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience and live without heart ; 
We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but 

grieving ? 
He may live without hope — what is hope^but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man who can live without dining? 

— Meredith. 



(V) 



EDITOR'S PAGE. 



Miss Craig comes of a long line of good cooks and 
high livers, and can cook any and all of the dishes diffi- 
cult to make, but, in issuing a book, has confined her- 
self to the simple methods, and has reduced the detail 
in the kitchen to a minimum in many ways, and on 
this line hopes to be able to inspire people to keep 
cleaner kitchens, with the aid of the present methods 
of gas cooking, and the light, -beautiful utensils that 
the market is offering for use ' on the gas stove. Miss 
Craig's mother was a direct descendant of Samuel 
"Woddworth, of "The Old Oaken Bucket" fame, who 
at one time edited the New York Mirror, while on the 
father's side she is Scotch-Irish, who was a descendant 
of "Sir Thomas Craig, of Scotland," which' the Omaha 
Press says is a fine blend. 



(vfl) 



PREFACE. 



In all ages and all climes the pleasures of the table 
have been appreciated and cultivated, from the time 
of the Epicureans, when people lived to eat, down to 
the present day, when, with the study of food properties 
and their dietetic values, wo are approaching the more 
ideal state, and eat to live. Indeed, many doctors of the 
present time resort to a dietary cure as often as to a 
medicinal one, and this ranks cookery with the arts. 

But in the scientific blending of proteids, carbohy- 
drates and fats, Ihe careful and dainty preparation 
must not be overlooked — our food must appeal to the 
eye as ■v^'ell as to the palate, as a direct aid to digestion; 
And the simplest rules for doing this I have tried to 
give in this book, always remembfering Ruskin's defini- 
tion: "Cookery means much tasting and no wasting; 
it means English thoroughness, French art and Arabian 
hospitality; it means the knowledge of all the fruits 
and herbs and balms and spices; it means carefulness, 
inventiveness and watchfulness; the economy of our 
grandmothers and the science of modern chemistry. ' ' 



(ii) 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Chapter. p^ej,_ 

I. Poods ■. l 

II. Cookery 9 

III. Bread and Bkead-makinq 13 

IV. Cereals 33 

V. Soups 36 

VI. Soups with Stocks 48 

VII. Garnishes for Soups 55 

VIII, Preparation and Care of Fish 57 

IX. Oysters and Shell Fish 69 

X- Beef.'. , 86 

XI. Veal 99 

XII. Lamb and Mutton 106 

XIII. Sweetbreads 113 

XIV. Pork IIG 

XV. Poultry and Game 120 

XVI. Fish and Meat Sauces 135 

XVII. Vegetables 145 

XVIII. Entries 180 

XIX. Nuts 195 

XX. Eggs 199 

XXI. Pastry 209 

XXII. Pies 214 

XXIII. Pastry Desserts 223 , 

XXIV. Pudding Sauces .-. 227 

XXV. Hot Puddings 230 

XXVI. Cold Desserts 240 

XXVII. Frozen Desserts 247 

XXVIII. Beverages ^ 262 

XXIX. SAI.ADS AND Salad Dressings 272 

XXX. CANAPifes AND Sandwiches 286 

XXXI. Gingerbread, Cookies and Wafers 292 

XXXir. Cakes 296 

XXXIII. Cakes Made with Butter 303 

XXXIV. Cake Fillings and Frostings 312 

XXXV. Fancy Cakes and Candies 319 

XXXVI. Use op Chafing-dish 327 

XXXVII. Invalid Cookery 335 

XXXVIII. Food for Chh.dben 348 

XXXIX. Fruits — Fresh, Canned and Preserved 352 

XL. Household Hints , 367 

XLI. French Terms Used in Cooking 378- 

XLII. Food Combinations 383 

Index 393 



SCIENTIFIC COOKINa 



CHAPTER I. 
FOOD. 

FOOD is what we take to nourish and sustain the 
body. In the body are found thirteen elements: 
oxygen, 62i/^%; hydrogen, 10 7" 5 oarbou, 21i/^%; nitro- 
gen, S%; calcium, ' potassium, ' phosphoras,- sulphur, 
chlorine, sodium, magnesium, iron and fluorine, 3%. 

The food must contain the elements found in the 
body in border to sustain it, and repair the wa^te, ajid 
make the child grow, and give the man energy for his 
daily work. All food must undergo a chemical change 
after being taken into the body, before it can be utilized 
by the body, "and this is done by the digestive system. 

The foods 'come under two heads : 



I 

{ 



Proteid. 
Obganio ■{ Carbohydrates. 
Fats and oils. 
Mineral matter. 



Inoeganic , ^.,. ^ 

Water. 

Tie work of the proteid is to build and repair tis- 
sues. Example: milk, eggs, cheese, meat, fish, cereals, 
beans, lentils and peas. Albumin is the principal con- 
stituent of proteid matter. 

In the egg it . is known as albumin ; casein in the 
milk and cheese ; vegetable casein in peas, beans and 



2 SCffiasTTlPtO COOKtNfl. 

lentils; and in the wheat, glutine; gelatine in the bones 
and gristle in the meat. 

In the carbohydrates we get our heat and maintain 
our energy; they are found in the starch, sugars, oils 
and fats. From, the mineral matter we get our salts. 

The Proper Diet. 

Age, sex, occupation, climate and season should de- 
termine the diet of one in normal condition. A child 
should not have starchy food until the teeth appear; 
before this there are no ferments developed to digest 
them. A woman will require less food than a man, 
and do the same work. Brain workers want to take 
easily digested foods, such as eggs, fish, etc. The laborer 
needs quantity, and can eat of corned beef, cabbage, 
corn bread and brown bread, and not overtax his diges- 
tion for the reason he is out in the open air. In old age 
the digestive organs become inactive, and the diet must 
again become simple as that of the child. 

Water. 

Water is very important and very necessary, but it 
wants to be free from disease germs. In this matter the 
health officer will keep you posted. Soft water is free 
from salts and lime, and is best for the use in, the house- 
hold. Water will freeze at 32° F. heat and will boil at 
212° F. In a high altitude it boils at a lower tempera- 
ture. Distilled water is used for medical purposes be- 
cause it contains no organic impurities. You should 
drink plenty of water between the meals, but do not 
drink while you are eating, for the reason it prevents 
the gastric juices of the mouth' from perform.ing their 
proper work in the digesting" of the starchy foods, which 
should begin in the mouth. , 



POOD. 3 

Salts. 

The most common and abundant salt found in the 
body is sodium chloride, or common salt ; it assists diges- 
tion by furnishing hydrochloric acid found in the gastric 
juices. 

Starch. 

Starch is largely distributed through the vegetable 
kingdom, and is most abundant in the cereals and pota- 
toes. It is a heat-giver and force-prodl^cer, and is a 
very important food., It will not sustain life alone, b-iii 
must be taken in combination with foods that yepair 
and build up the tissues. 

Sugar. 

The use of sugar as a food is the same as starch; and 
all starch must be converted into sugar before it can be 
assimilated. The different kinds of sugars are cane 
sugar or sucrose, grape sugar or glucose, milk sugar or 
lactose, and fruit sugar or levulose. Cane sugar is ob- 
tained from sugar cane, grape sugar from honey and 
the sweet fruits, milk sugar from the milk of miammalia 
and does net ferment. 

Fats and Oils. 

Fats and oils are found in both the animal and vege- 
table kingdom; they contain stearin (solid), olein 
(liquid), palndtin (semi-solid). In the animal fats 
cream and butter are of the first importance as foods, 
for the reason they are more easily assimilated. 

The animal oils are found in cod liver oil and oil 
in the yolk of eggs; the vegetable oils are foilnd in the 
olive, cotton-seed, poppy and the cocoanut, and from the 
various nuts. 



4 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Milk. 

COMPOSITION. 

Proteid, 3.4%. Mineral matter, .7%. 

Fat, 4:%. Water, 87%. 

Lactose, 4.9%. 

— Chemist. 

From the fact that we find in the milk all that is 
required for the food of the young during the time 
of their most rapid growth, we must rate its value as 
a food. "We get the most benefit from it taken at re>,"ii- 
lar intervals rather than at meals. I do not consider 
it good to give meat and milk at the same time, but - 
rather combine it with a starchy food. Hot milk is 
good to produce sleep. Iced milk is not good, for the 
reason that the cold reduces the action of the digestive 
organs by lowering them below the normal. In the m.ilk 
we find lactose, casein and mineral matter. The water 
varies according to the adulteration. Milk will become 
sour by the germ in the air attacking the lactose and 
converting it into lactic acid. The cream rises to the 
top of the milk when it stands. For thin cream we stand 
it overnight. For whipping cream it must stand 
twelve hours longer in a very cool-place. It is best to 
sterilize the milk to feed a child on, in order to kill all 
germs. Milk is the diet for typhoid and diphtheria, 
and is combined with soda, apoUinaris, viehy or seltzer, 
as the physician may prescribe. The doctor will often 
order albuminized milk where much nutriment is re- 
quired. Many laboratories are now furnishing modified 
milk put up by physician's prescription. 



FOOD. 

Butter. 

COMPOSITION. 

J?at, 93%. Mineral matter, 95%. 

Water, 5.34%. _ Casein, .71%. 

— Columbus Chemist 

Our butter is made from cow's cream. The quality 
of our butter depends upon the manner in which it is 
made and .the care of the cows. In order to have well- 
flavored butter the cow should be very clean before milk- 
ing, an3 should be milked in a clean place. A dirty 
barn will spoil both milk and butter, as they both absiorb 
all odors with which they come in contact. Butter should 
never be worked enough to spoil the grain of the butter, 
and should be kept in a cool place and well covered to 
keep ou.t odors, and also to keep it from becoming ran- 
cid. The salt preserves our butter; butter freshly 
churned without salt, such as is served in Paris, France, 
will spoil very quickly, and for this reason must be used 
at once. 

Cheese. 

Cheese is made from skimmed milk, and will keep a 
longer or shorter time according to the kind of fermo,nt 
or decomposition -that takes place in it. This is called 
the ripening of the fiheese. There is the "soft cream 
cheese that is not allowed to ripen, but must be used 
at once. 

Cheese, being very rich in proteid matter, is often 
used instead of meat. Prof. Atkinson, in his book on 
' ' Nutrition, ' ' says a pound of cheese equals a pound of 
beef. Cheese is hard to digest. Some authorities say 
cooking makes it more digestible. A piece o£ rich cheese- 
is often used as a digester. In the skimmed-milk cheeses 
most in use we find the Parmesan, Edam and Gruyere. 



6 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Parmesan, being very hard, is used principally for grat- 
ing. Besides these we have the family of milk and 
cream cheeses. 

Fruits. 
Fresh fruits are always wholesome and digestible 
with few exceptions, and should always have a place 
oca every table. The care of fruit is very important, 
and should never be kept in a warm room to furnish 
ornamentation for the sideboard. To be in its best 
condition it wants to be firm, cold and fresh. We will 
make an exception to the rule in the small fruits, which 
are sweeter when brought fresJi from the garden with 
the sunshine on them.. AH fruits coming from market 
should be chilled. Much taste can be displayed in the 
arrangement of fruits for , the table. When one can 
obtain them, green leaves are always an addition to the 
dish of fruit, using the foliage of the different fruits 
with kind of fruit you are serving. They are, so to 
speak, the trademark, same as Minerva is always rep- 
resented with the spinning-wheel. Apples should 
always be rubbed until well polished before serving. 
The red and bright green ones are a great addition 
to a dish of fruit. Grapefruit is served for break- 
fast or as first course for a luncheon. The seeds and 
core must be removed and the pulp separated from 
the bitter skin. A pair of scissors is the best thing 
to prepare them with. Put sugar in the ceriter, and 
thoroughly chill them before serving. Peaches should 
have .the down taken off lightly with a soft cloth when 
they are to be served whole, but they stain the linen 
very badly, and for that reason are better, for the com- 
fort of the housekeeper to be peeled , before serving, but 
they must be chilled and prared ,iust as they are sent 
to the table. Strawberries usually have to be washed 



FOOD. 7 

before serving, as they growso near the ground they 
are apt to be gritty from the sand in the soil from 
which they are taken. Fine large berries are prettier 
for a fruit course "^erved with, the hulls on. Always, 
wash the berries before capping them in order to pre- 
serve the juice. In the washing the cold water must be 
poured over the berries, and never put them in water 
to lie for an instant, for they are really better if you 
can serve without washing; but if you 'do feel that you 
must wash them, you should run the water on lightly. 
Never sugar them, but pass the sugar with them. Use 
powdered sugar to sWeeten fruit of all kinds at the 
table. In dishing berries of all kinds pass the berry 
spoon close to the edge of bowl to keep from crushing 
-them. In cooking dried fruits thoroughly wash them 
in tepid water, and soak them for two or three hours, 
and cook very slowly in the water in which they were' 
soaked. 

Fruits are chiefly vegetable, and their uses are very 
important from the fact that aeid^ sugar, salts and the 
large quantities of water found in them are refreshing, 
cooling and stimulating. They keep the blood in good 
condition and act as a tonic. In the fruits we find a 
great variety of acids. The different kinds of acids 
we find in the fruits make quite a study, and it is 
really much to the advaiitage of the good houskeeper 
that she acquaints herself with the different acids in 
the fniits. For instance, she wants to loiow ^e can not 
make jelly unless she has some fruit that contains pec- 
tose.^ This acid is found in the currants, quince and 
apple, and a few apples cooked with any fruit that 
is lacking in this acid will enable her to make the jelly. 
Besides the pectic acid that makes the jelly, many of 
our fruits contain starch that during the ripening is 



8 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

converted into glucose. The most nutritious of our 
fruits are the prune, grapes, figs, dates and bananas, 
owing to large amount of sugar and small amount of 
water. 

The orange, apple and lemon are valuable on ac- 
count of the potash salts as well as for their citric acid 
in which they abound, especially the lemon and orange. 
The apple is said to be anti-bilious, and is in. the market 
all the year round, and should be used freely in every 
family. I would recommend fresh ripe fruits served 
at the meal in&tead of the made desserts from the 
kitchen, for, in my opinion, nature has prepared them 
for us by cooking them in the sun better than we can. 

List of our fruits and where they come from: 

Cherry tree, Asia. 

Apricot tree, Armenia. 

Peach tree, Persia. 

Plum tree, Africa. 

•Quince tree, Greece. 

Pear tree, Greece. 

Apple tree, Greece. 

Lemon tree. Media. 

Orange tree is claimed by Africa and southern China. 

Fig tree, Judea. From the East the fig tree pa,ssed 
into Greece, Italy, Gaul, Spain and throughout Europe. 

Raspberry, Rome. 

Strawberry, Greece. 

Mulberry tree, Rome. 

Almond tree, Greece. 

Hazel tree, Greece. 

Pistachio tree, India. 

Chestnut tree, Thessalony. 

Pomegranate, Asia. 

Currant is claimed b^ both Greece and Italy. 



COOICEBY. 9 

CHAPTEiR II. 
COOKERY. 

THE progress of civilization has been accompanied 
by progress in cooking, and in every country we 
now find people cooking. Even if their -methods are 
crude, they cpok, and the art of cooking is reaching to 
every land. It is no longer considered the thing for the 
young lady to say she can not boil water, but we find 
cooking very infectious with all classes and conditions 
of the people. And in every household the cook is the 
important factor. 

There is a very funny story told of King Alphonso, 
who was on board a boat for a long sail. The steward 
came running toward him, looking in great distress, 
whereupon the king asked what the trouble was. He 
wrung his hands and said, "The father confessor has 
fallen overboard." "Thank God!" said the king, "it 
was_not the cook." 

Pood is cooked to make it more digestible and to de- 
velop different flavors, which we find much more pala- 
table. 

The Fire. 

There is not much to be said about the kind of 
-fuels we are' to use. Gas is the fuel of most households, 
and I find in the country places, where gas can not be 
obtained, thpy are "using gasoline. 

Ways of Cooking. 

The different ways of cooking are boiling, baking, 
roasting, stewing (or simmering), frying, sauteing. 



A-B GAS RANGES """" " '"'' 



Styles and Sizer 



10 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



fricasseeing, and use of the cassaroll in the oven. To 
boil is to cook in boiling water, which is 212° F. heat 
(the level of the sea). "We simmer at a |temperature of 
185° F. heat. Water will boil at a lower temperature 
in a high altitude. Soups, ham, corned beef, tongues 
and the cheap cuts of the meat all want to be "simmered 
after, they reach the boiling-point. They will be found 
to be much nicer, and the carver wijl find they out 
smoother and more evenly, and do not tear as he presses 
on the knife. Milk should always be scalded in the 
double boiler, so as not to harden the casein, and render 
difficult to digest Cooking over hot water is called 
steaming. Stewing is cooking in a small amount of 
hot water for a long time at a low temperature. Cook- 
ing the cheaper cuts of meat in this way, the fiber and 
connecting tissues are softened and rendered tender 
and very palatable. 

Broiling is one of the most delightful ways of cook- 
ing, and is done by cooking directly over the fire, or 
under it, and in some eases in front of it. Only the 
best cuts of meat are to be broiled, as you will find 
the intense heat will toughen the fiber of the cheaper 
cuts and make them hard to eat. 

Roasting is cooking by a hot fire in an oven 
or before the fire on the spit, as in the olden 
times. In roasting a piece of meat, it wants to 
be Cut from the best part of the animal, for the 
same reason that the broiling piece does; and in 
roasting beef, lamb and mutton it is best to baste with 
fat entirely, also for loin of pork, while with veal 
you should use water and butter; not too much water 
at a time, but keep renewing it as it cooks away. Do- 
mestic fowls are treated the same as veal. 

Frying is cooking by immersion in deep fat, raised 



COOKERY. 11 

to a temperature of from 350° to 500° P. heat. For 
this purpose we use lard, beef dripping and lard mixed, 
cottolene, coto-suet or olive oil; this is left to the taste 
of the cook. Your fat wants to be at the right tempera- 
ture to keep the food from absorbing the fat. 

Rules for testing fat : 1. "When the fat begins to 
smoke, drop in a piece of bread -free from, crust, and if 
while you count forty it is a golden brown, it is then 
right to cook oysters and croquettes. 2. You want to 
be able to count sixty (or one minute), counting as the 
clock ticks, for cooking pan-fish, doughnuts and fritters. 

Sauteing is frying in a small quantity of fat. Food 
cooked in this way is much harder to digest than that 
cooked in the deep fat, and for this method of cooking 
we use the frying-pan. 

Braising is cooking in a covered vessel with a low 
degree of heat. The "Aladdin Lamp" is a fine ex- 
ample of slow cooking, and was invented by Prof. At- 
kinson, of Boston. This method of cooking is also 
shown in the casserole of the present day. In braising 
. meat of any kind it gives it a much finer flavor if you 
saute it on all sides until it is well browned; then it 
will hold its juices better," and the brown on meat gives 
a good color and flavor. ' 

Fricasseeing is sauteing and serving tender meat or 
fowl with a sauce. There are two kinds of fricasseeing — 
one white, the other brown. The white one we placi 
in the saucepan in boiling water, and cook slowly until 
tender. The brown one is browned in butter, oil or 
lard until brown, and placed in saucepan and browji 
sauce poured over it and cooked until tender at the 
simmering point. 



12 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Measuring Ingredients. 

Much of the success in cooking depends upon proper 
and correct mcr.ciring. Powdered confectioners' sugar 
and granulated sugar should be sifted before measuring. 
Baking powder should always be well stirred to lighten 
it before measuring. A cupful is a half pint, and is 
measured level. Dip the ingredient up with a spoon 
and level with a knife. The tablespoon and teaspoon 
are measured level in all the best schools of cookery, 
and will perhaps give you the best results. There are 
measure-spoons now that give the table, tea, dessert, 
halfs and quarters, and are very useful and time-saving. 

In measuring, where sugar, flour, butter and water 
or milk are used, measure in fhe order given in recipes, 
and the one cup will do for all. 

To Combine Ingre(lients. 

The manner of combining is next in importance to 
correct measuring. There are three ways to be con- 
sidered — ^beating, stirring and folding. Beating is to 
turn over and over, bringing the bottom to the top with 
each stroke, and drawing in plenty of cold air, which 
makes batters of all kinds light when they come in 
contact with hot air of the oven. Stirring is a circu- 
lar motion, and is good for blending material. Folding 
is used for the whites of eggs^ flour, etc. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 13 



CHAPTER III. 

BREAD AND BREAD=MAKINQ. 

"Bread is the staff of life, and good bread and butter a 
gold-headed cane." 

THE study of bread-making is very important in the 
family diet, and well deserves the attention of 
every housekeeper. With the present ingredients which 
we have to make the good and perfect loaf, there is no 
excuse for finding the poor one in any household. We 
make bread from flour of wheat and other cereals, with 
the addition of water, milk and ferment. In the wheat 
we find gluten in right proportions to make the spongy 
loaf. The entire wheat flour is the most wholesome and 
sustaining to the body, for in that we have all the 
grain, with only the outside husk removed. In the 
bran coats we find the mineral matter, in the gluten 
the proteid matter and fat, and in the center of the 
grain the starch. We distinguish the wheat as white 
and hard or red and soft. The white is the winter 
wheat and lies in the ground all winter, and the red 
is sown in the spring and grown quickly. From the 
winter wheat we make the pastry flour, and from the 
spring the bread flour. 

Yeast. 

We will next consider the yeast. It is a plant of 
fungous growth, and consists of spores or germs found 
floating in the air. These spores grow very rapidly 
under favorable conditions, and produce the ferment 
which we need to lighten the loaf. Warm, moist air 



14 " SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

gives, US the best conditions to hasten the growth of the 
yeast plant. There are three kinds of fermentations 
■v^hich we consider — alcoholic^ acetic and lactic. In the 
bread we find the ahoholic. If the ferment continues, 
too long, we have the acetic. The lactic ferment is that 
which takes place when the milk sours. The acid we 
get in the sour milk is very good for the stomach, and 
for this reason doctors recommend the drinking of but- 
termilk for many of their patients. We scarcely con- 
sider any yeast now but the compressed, except in the 
country, where it can not be obtained. In that case we 
have to resort to the dry yeast, or what is known as 
salt rising. Be sure your yeast is perfectly fresh, which 
you can determine -by the light color with absence of 
any dark streaks. The temperature best suited for the . 
growth of the yeast plant is from 68° F. to 70° F., in 
a warm, moist air. The yeast plant is killed at 212° F., 
and the life of the plant is entirely suspended at 32° 
F., but not entirely destroyed, and with warmth and 
air can again be started. 

Baking of Bread. 

We bake bread to kill the ferment, to make diges- 
tible the starch, to drive off the alcohol and carbon diox- 
ide, and to form the brown, nicely flavored caromel 
crust. We place bread in a hot oven, and lower the 
heat as necessary as the process of baking goes on ; for 
the heat must reach the 'center of the loaf and cook it,' 
in order that the loaf may be healthy and digestible. 
Always bake your loaves of bread in small pans holding 
only the one loaf. The loaf should rise for ten or 
twelve minutes before it begins to brown. Biscuit want 
a hot oven, and will bake in twelve or fifteen minutes 
according to the thickness gf the biscuit. They should, 



BEEAD AND BKEAD-MAKING. 15 

never be, too thick. All bread wants to be thin, with 
nice crust. If a tender crust is desired, brush the, top 
with butter a few moments before removing from the 
oven. The best bread-box is a stone jar with stone cover, 
afid cloths should not be wrapped around bread, as 
the bread will taste of cloth always. 

' Quick Bread. 

In the quick breads we get our ferment from : the 
baking-powder we use, or by beating in a great deal of 
cold air, which causes the bread to lighten Iwhen placed 
in the hot oven. The object in making the bread light 
and porous is to have it easily acted upon by the diges- 
tive ferment with whidh it comes in contact, first in the 
mouth, then in the stomach. The starchy foods want to 
stay a long time in the mouth and bg well chewed, to 
mix them well with the saliva, as digestion should be- 
gin in t^e mouth, a fact that, makes itself manifest, by 
the sweet taste. When we put a piece of bread in the 
mouth and chew it for a long time> we taste the sugar; 
this shows the digestion has begun. / 

Acids found in molasses, sour milk and lemon jujce 
will liberate gas in soda, and this lightens the dough 
and causes it to become porous. 

Water Bread. 

2 cups boiling water. v , 2 level teaspoons salt. 

1 tablespoon each lard or bntter. • 1 yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. }^ cup warm water. 

Flour to make a dough that you knead without its 
sticking to the hands or board. 

Put your butter or l^rd, sugar and salt in the boiling 
water, in bread mixer or large bowl, i Stir until sugar 
is dissolved and lard and butter melted, then beat in 



16 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

three cups of flour, ana beat welL until the cells in.thu 
dough are well filled with air. Add dissolved yeast cakes, 
then enough flour to make the dough stiff to be handled. 
Care must be taken not to get too much flour. It is hard 
to give the exact amount of flour, as the 'quantity will 
depend upon the kind of flour used. Flour made from 
the spring wheat is the best for the bread, for the reason 
there is more gluten in it than we find in the pastry 
flour. Turn yoUr dough on a well-floured board, knead 
until it becomes smooth and elastic, and well filled with 
bubbles under the surface. When it is ready to be 
returned to a well-buttered bowl large enough to, allow it 
to double its bulk, it is then ready to be shaped and put 
into small buttered bread-pans. Place to rise in a tem- 
perature of from 68° F. to 70° F., until it has doubled 
its bulk, when you place it in a hot oven and bake, re- 
ducing the heat, if necessary, to keep it from burning. 
A small, brick-shaped loaf will require thirty minutes 
to bake if the heat in the oven is just right. 

It is much better to make your bread up in the morn- 
ing, and put more yeast to lighten it. And do not think 
the loaf will taste of the yeast; it will not, for experi- 
ence and the scientist have shown us that it takes just 
so much yeast to lift the loaf, and if we do not put it 
in, it has to take the time to gather the spores from the 
air with tlie food which we have in our mixture. So I 
can safely say we have quicker and sweeter bread by 
using plenty of yeast.' With the cake of the compressed 
yeast to each pint of wetting (whether milk or water), 
the bread will be lifted twice; then allow it to bake 
three hours. The result will be the sweet,, delicious loaf 
without the chance of souring. 

When the bread.is well baked, turn on the side on a 
wire bread-rack, to cool before putting in the bread- 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 17 

box, or, better, the stone jar with the stone cover. Do 
not wrap bread in cloths when putting it away, as it 
will taste of the cloth. 

Milk Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup water. , 1 yeast cake. ; 

Dissolve yeast in J^ cup lukewarm water. 

"We scald the milk to kill the lactic germ. Add flour 
to make a dough that you can handle when turned onto 
■a well-floured board, using care not to add too much 
flour. Prepare, raise and bake same as the waterv bread, 
as the process of the kneading, raising and baking is 
the same in all breads made from yeast. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 
J^ cup molasses., 1 yeast cake. 

2 cups white flour. J^ cup lukewarm water 

Balance of flour entire wheat. to dissolve yeast in. 

Entire wheat bread can be i made in a thick drop 
batter, or enough flour added to knead and shape into 
loaves, just as you like. "We raise the same as white 
bread by. letting it double its bulk in the mixing-bowl, 
then shaping into loaves and placing in greased pans, 
filling them half full. Cover, let rise again to double 
its bulk, and bake in hot oven. 

Parker House Rolls. 

2 cups scalded milk. , 1 whole egg well beaten. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 yeast cake. 

Flour. - M '^^V lukewarm water. 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk. "When- cool 
enough the yeast cake is dissolved in the half cupluke- 



18 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

warm water, then enough flqur to make drop batter. 
Beat thoroughly and turn onto a well-floured board 
while it is quite soft, and knead thoroughly, adding what 
flour is necessary to be able, to handle it. (It wants to 
be very soft. ) Let it lighten in well-buttered bowl with 
the dough buttered well on top so it will not crust until 
double its bulk, then turn onto well-floured board and 
shape into small balls the size of a walnut, and press 
in the center of ball butter and fold over two-thirds. 
Press firmly together. Place in shallow pan, allowing 
plenty of space between for the lightening of rolls. 
They do not want to touch in baking. Butter well on 
top, let them get very light, and bake then in hot oven 
from twelve to fifteen minutes. The rising does not 
want to be hastened too much or they, will lose their 
shape. This mixture will make any kind of rolls you de- 
sire, the name depending on the shape you mold them 
into before the last lightening. 

Bread Sticks. 

1 cup scalded milk. Whites of 2 eggs. 

J^ cnp butter. 1 yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. J^ teaspoon salt. 
4 cups flour. 

Knead, let rise, shape and let rise again. Put into 
hot oven, and reduce the heat that the sticks may be 
dry and crisp. 

Graham Bread. 

lyi cups scalded milk. 2 yeast cakes in 

yi cup molasses J^ cup warm water. 

(Orleans is best). 3 cups white flour. 

1 teaspoon salt (full). 3 cups Graham flour 

Prepare and bake same as entire wheat. Sift the 

Graham flour and discard bran that remains in the 
sieve, or return to the flour and use it if desired. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 19 

Boston Brown Bread. 

1 oup rye meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup granulated corn meal. % teaspoon soda. 

1 cup Graham flour. % cup molasses. 

3 cups sour milk or IJ^ cups sweet milk. 
1 egg. 

Mix all the dry ingredients, , and stir well. Add 
molasses and milk, stir and beat well. Turn into T^elL 
buttered mould, and steam from three aiid a half to four 
hours. You can use one pound bakingj-powder tins to 
, steam this in if you wish, to use it for sandwiches. In 
steaming, you want to place your mould in the kettle 
of boiling water on a trivet and allow the water to come 
half way up the mould. Cover closely and see the water 
is renewed when it boils away. ^ 

Rye Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 yeast cake in J^ cup 

3 tablespoons lard or butter. lukewarm water. 

yi cup brown sugar. 3 cups white flour. 

Enough rye meal to make the dough stiff enough to knead. 

Knead thoroughly, let rise, shape in loaves, rise 

again, and bake 

Sweet Rusks. 

3 cups scalded milk. 1 whole egg. 

J^ cup butter. . Yolks of 3 eggs. 

, ^ cup sugar. 2 yeast cakes in yi oup water. 

Enough flour to make soft dough. ^ 

Raise twice, shape in little round rolls after the 
first raising, and place in shallow buttered pans, some 
distance apart, and let them get very light before you 
put them to bake. "When nearly dofle, brush with white 
of egg with tablespoon of water added to it. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cool on wire bread-rest. 



20 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

German Coffee Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 egg. 

J^ cup butter. 1 yeast cake (dissolved). 

^ cup sugar. % dP raisins stoned and cut into pieces. 

Flour enough to make a stiff batter, and add the raisins. 

Cover and let rise; spread on well-buttered pan; 
let rise again Before baking brush with egg, and cover 
with three level tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
sugar one teaspoon cinnamon. Bake in oven not too 
hot. When done, sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Swedish Bread. 

2 cups scalded milk. }4 "up sugar. 

1 yeast cake. 1 egg well beaten. 

}4 cup melted butter. }4 cup almonds 

J^ teaspoon salt. , > blanched and chopped. 

Enough flour to make a' soft dough. 

To the scalded milk add the butter, sugar and salt, 
and enough flour to make a drop batter. When cool, 
add the yeast cake that has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water. Cover and let rise; when light, 
add enough more flour that you can knead, being care- 
ful not to get the dough too stiff. Toss on a floured 
board, and knead until well covered with blisters, then 
let it rise the sqcond time. Turn on an unfloured board, 
and roll very thin. Spread with melted butter, and 
sprinkle with sugar and the blanched and chopped al- 
monds, or cinnamon, if preferred. Then, with a thin 
knife, loosen from the board and roll up same as jelly 
roll ; cut piece from each end ^nd form ring, place on a 
buttered sheet, and with scissors cut into pieces half- 
inch thick, Jetting them lie close together ; lighten again 
and bake in moderate oven. Just before putting in the 
oven you can brush with one egg diluted with one table- 
spoon of cold water. 



A'B GAS RANGES ''''""'' "'"'""'''"' 



people 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 21 

Hot Cross Buns. 

1 cup scalded , milk; J^ teaspoon salt. 

^ cup sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 yeast cake dissolved 1 egg. 

in lukewarm, water. J^ cup each currants and 

2 tablespoons butter. raisins stoned and cut fine. 

3 cups flour. 

To the scalded milk add the butter, sugar and salt, 
"When cool enough, add the yeast cake. Mix cinnamon 
with the flour, and add next, then the well-beaten egg. 
When thoroughly mixed, add the raisins and currants; 
let it stand until very light, then shape in biscuit form, 
and put in. well-buttered pan one inch apart. Brush 
over with beaten egg, and bake fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Then, with frosting, make a cross on top of each 
bun. 

Yeast Muffins. 

1]4 cups scalded milk. 1 yeaat cake. 

}4 teaspoon salt. ' , 3>^'cup3 flour. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

3 tablespoons butter. 

To your hot milk add butter, salt and sugar. When 
cool enough, add the yeast cake dissolved in one-third 
cup lukewarm water, then the flour and the egg well 
beaten. Let it rise to double its bulk. Fill buttered 
muffin-rings half full ; let rise until rings are full. Bake 
twenty-five or thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve at 
once. 

Rice Muffins. 

Proceed the same as for raised yeast muffins, using 
three cups flour and one cup boiled rice. Or, if pre- 
ferred, you can use a cup of hominy fresh boiled, being 
careful that the hominy, is boiled, quite dry, or you can 
add a little more flour. 



22 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Dry Toast. 

Out bread in thin slices about one-fourth inch thick. 
Place on broiler rack, light gas, and toast' to a delicate 
brown without burning. If the crusts have not been 
removed, pound them on board to soften them. Pile 
them on hot plate and serve at once. They can be but- 
tered at table or before -"ust as you like. 

Water Toast. 

Water toast is made by dipping slices of dry toast 
in boiling salted Water very quickly and spread with 
butter. Only the hest butter is good for toast 

Milk Toast. 

3 cups scalded milk. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. 8 slices toast. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Mix butter and iiour, and stir in the hot milk, add- 
ing some of the milk to the bowl with the butter and 
flour before trying to add it to the hot milk. ''Cook in 
double boiler ;fifteen minutes. Dip the slices , of toast 
into the sauce, and place on serving-dish, and pour re- 
mainder of sauce over and serve quickly. 

Brown Bread Toast. 

Brown bread toast is made in the same way, using 
slices of brown bread instead of white bread. 

Cream Toast. 

Proceed same as for milk toast, using cream instead 
of milk, and use no butter. The thin cream is the best 
for making toast. 



BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. 23 

Toast for Garnishing. 

Cut your pieces of bread in any shape desired aiid 
dip in melted butter, and toast. Eounds with the cen- 
ters removed, buttered and toasted, or fried in deep fat, 
are called croustards. Half-inch squares bpowned or 
fried are called Croutons, and are used for cream soups, 
top of spinach, etc. 

Quick hot bread used for breakfast, luncheon, etc., 
is made with baking-powder for the ferment, and made 
into batter that will pour or drop, and soft doughs, 
easily, moulded and shaped with the hand or small 
cutters. 

Baking=powder Biscuit. 

2 tablespoons lard or butter. , 2 cups flour. 

4 level teaspoons baking^ppwder, 1 cup milk or enough, to 

1 teaspoon salt. inake a very soft dough. 

Mix dry ingredients. Add the lard or butter. Chop 
in with knife or rub in with the back of a wooden spoon. 
Add milk slowly. Toss on well-floured board, roll 
lightly to half inch in thickness, and shape with biscuit- 
cutter. Place on buttered pan and bake in hot oven 
from twelve to fifteen minutes, according to oven, as 
some bake much quicker than others. 

Drop Biscuit. 

Use the recipe for baking-powder biscuit, making it 
softer, so that you can drop it from the spoon on but- 
tered pan. 

Roly-poly Biscuit. 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons sugar,. 

i teaspoons baking-powder. 2 tablespoons butter. 

J^ teaspoon salt. J^ cup stoned raisins. 

J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 2 tablespoons citron. 



24 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Mix same as baking-powder bise.uit. Toss on well- 
floured board, and roll td fourth-ineh in thickness. 
Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with the fruit, 
sugar and cinnamon. Roll same as jelly roll, and cut 
into pieces half-inch in thickness. Place on buttered 
pan and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, 

One"=egg Muffins. 

3 cups flour. IJ^ cup milk. 

4 level teaspoons baking-powder. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons melted butter. 1 egg, well beaten. 

Mix dry ingredients. Well sift or stir as you please. 
Add gradually the milk, then the melted butter, then 
the egg beaten until quite light. Fill buttered muffin 
tins and iake in hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
This will make one dozen muffins. 

Rice Muffins. 

2 full cups flour. 1 cup milk. 

J^ cup cooked xioe. 1 egg. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

J^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder. Add half 
milk to rice, other half to dry ingredients and your well- 
beaten egg. Add rice and melted butter, beat thor- 
oughly, and bake in well-buttered muffin-tins until a 
nice brown. 

Berry Muffins. 

2 tablespoons butter (rounding). 23^ cupa flour. 
4 level teaspoons baking-powder. J^ cup sugar. 
1 egg. 1 cup berries. 1 cup milk. 

Cream the butter, and add sugar and egg well 
beaten. Mix baldng-powder with flour and salt. Re- 
serve half cup of the flour to mix with berries, ajid 



46 ' SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

to the boiling-point, and strain, then thicken with the 
butter and flour. Scald the milk in double boiler with 
the onion in it. 'Remove .the onion, add the milk and 
soft part of the clam to stock; cook for two minutes, 
and pour over the stiff-beaten whites of eggS; and serve 
at once. 

Clam Bouillon. 
% peck clams. 3 cups cold water. 

Wash and scrub clams well, using several waters. 
Put into kettle with cold water. Cover tightly, and 
steam, until the shells are well opened. Strain liquor, 
cool, and clear with whites of eggs. 

Oyster Soup. ' 

1 quart oysters. % cup butter. 

1 quaxt milk. J^ cup flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean oysters by placing them in colander and pour- 
ing over them one cup cold water. Carefully pick over 
the oysters and reserve the liquor, which you heat to the 
boiling-point and strain through a French sieve. To 
this liquor you add the oystera (which you can slightly 
chop, if you like), and bring them to the boiling-point, 
which will plump the oysters. To this, you add the 
butter and flour cooked tpgether. Lastly add the quart 
of milk that has been brought to the scald in the double 
boiler. Season to taste. A slice of onion can be put 
in the milk while heating, if desired, also a blade of 
mace. But, if you like the oysters for their flavor, all 
this is better left out. 

Oyster Stew. 

1 quart scalded milk. 1 quart oysters. 

Salt and iwpper to taste. }^ cup butter. 



SOUPS. 47 

Clean and prepare oysters same as for oyster soup, 
reserving the liquor, which you heat to the boiling- 
point. Strain through a fine sieve, put back on fire, re- 
heat with oysters in, and cook until the oysters are 
plump and edges begin to curl. Remove the oysters 
with skimmer and put into tureen with butter, salt 
and pepper. Strain the liquor once more, add to milk, 
and turn over the oysters in tureen, and serve with 
oyster crackers. 

Scallop Stew. 

Make same as oyster stew, using one quart of scal- 
lops instead of oysters. 

Lobster Bisque. 

r 2 potLads lobster. J^ oup cream. 

1 cup white stock. i^ cup butter. 

3 cups milk. i^ cup flour. 

Few grains cayenne and salt to taste. 

Eemove meat from lobster shell ; scald milk and 
stock in double boiler; thicken with the butter and 
flour rubbed togehter. Add the tail meat cut in^ cubes, 
also the tender meat in the claws. Season with salt and 
cayenne. If you desire a strong flavor of the lobster, 
the shell can be heated in the stock and strained off. 
Just before sending to the table, add the cream, but 
do not let it stand or the cream may curdle. Should 
there be coral, wash it, and rub through a sieve ; blend 
with butter and add to soup. 



BEEAD AND BEBAD-MAKING. 25 

added last. Add remainder of the flour with the milk 
to the creamed sugar, butter and egg. 

Corn=meal Muffins. 

2 cups corn-meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup white flour. 1 cup milk. 
4 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

Pour enough boiling water over the meal to burst the 
starch grains, beat the eggs light, put with the milk, 
add the flour to the meal, first mixing ' the bakiiog- 
powder and salt with the^ flour. Then add the eggs 
and milk, beat well, and bake in gem pan in hot oven. 

Corn Egg Bread. 

1 cup white flour. 1 tablespoon butter (melted). 

2 cups corn-meal (granulated). 2 eggs, beaten very light 
1 teaspoon salt. , without separating. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 1% cups milk. 

Mix all the dry ingredients. Add eggs to milk, pour 
on and beat thoroughly. Add the melted butter, put 
into hot, well-buttered square tin pan with low sides, 
so that bread will brown on top. Bread does not brown 
in deep pans. 

, Sally Lunn. 

2 cups flour. 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 oup milk. 1 level tablespoon butter, melted. 
J^ teaspoon salt. 4 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Milk and egg yolks, 
and add to flrst. Beat well, then put in the beaten 
-whites. Bake in cake tins well buttered. 

Brioche. 

% pound butter. 7 eggs. 

' J^ teaspoon salt. ' 1 quart flour. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 2 cakes Compressed yeast. ' 

J^ oup water. 



26 SCIENTIFIC COOKING 

Dissolve the yeast in the water, then add enough 
of the flour to make a soft ball of paster Drop the 
ball into the pan of warm water, cover, and set in warm 
place to raise. Put the rest of the flour on a platter, 
make a well in the center ; into this put the butter, salt, 
sugar and four eggs. Break the eggs in whole. Have 
the butter rather soft. Work them together with the 
hand, gradually incorporating the flour. Add twof more 
eggs, one at a time; Work and beat with the hand 
until it loses its stickiness, which will take some time. 
When the leaven is quite light, lift it out of the water 
with a skimmer, and place it with the dough. Work 
them> together, add one more egg (last of the seven), 
and beat it a long time, using the hand. The longer 
it is beaten, the finer the grain of the paste will be. 
Put the paste in buttered bowl, cover, and let it rise 
to double its bulk, then beat it down and place on ice 
for twelve or twenty-four hours. Take it from the ice 
and make it into rolls or buns, and bake in turk's-head 
pan, and when done pour cup of sherry wine on while it 
is hot, and dip the wine up until cake absorbs it all. 

Pop-overs. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup milk. 

J^ teasjwon salt. 2 eggs. 

Mix flour with salt, pour on the milk slowly until 
a smooth batter is made, then break in the eggs, and 
with the Dover beater beat very rapidly for two or 
three minutes, and turn into muffin, pans buttered and 
hot, with piece of butter, size i of pea in each pan. 

Fadges. 

1 cup entire wheat flour. 1 cup cold water. 

2 eggs. 

. Add water gradually to flour, and with Dover egg- 
beater beat until very light. Bake same as pop-overs. 



BREAD AND BBIJAD-MAKING. 27 



Beaten Biscuit. 

1 pint floTir. 1 teaspoon salt. , 

J^ cup lard. Milk and water in equal quanti- 

ties to make a rather stiff dough, i 

Mix salt -with, flour. Chop in lard with knife. Turn 
on floured board, and -beat with rolling-pin or wooden 
mallet until covered with blisters, folding all the while 
to enclose all the coM air you can. , Roll to one-third 
inch in thickness and cut with small cutter. Prick with 
fork. Bake tw,eiity minutes in hot oven. 

Entire Wheat Qriddle^'cakes. 

1 cup entire wheat flour. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup wliite flour. 2 eggs. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. IJ^ cups milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Mix dry ingredients well together. Beat eggs, add 
milk to eggSi and pour onto the dry mixture, slowly 
beating all the while to keep from having lumps form^ 
which it will do if you pour the milk all on at once, 
or try to put the flour into the milk. After all is well 
mixed, beat thoroughly and bake on well-greased hot 
griddle. "When puffed and full of bubbles, turn, and 
cook the Other side. Never turn your, cakes hut once. 

i ' 

Flannel Calces. 

2 cups flour. 1% cups milk. ' 

I J^ teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 teaspoons baking-powder. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk to yolks of e^gs, and 
mix all together. When a smooth-batter has been made^ 
beat well then fold in the whites beaten stiff and dry. 



28 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Sour-milk Cakes. 

2 cups flour. 1^ cups sour milk. 

^2 teaapoon salt. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 teaspoon, baking-powder. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon melted butter ; 

Mix same as for the above cakes. 



Corn Qriddle-cakes. 

1 cup flour. 1 teasj)oon salt. , 

1 cup coarse commeal. 1 egg. 

3 teaspoons baking-powder. 1 cup boiling water. 
1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 cup milk. 

Scald meal with the boiling water, add dry ingre- 
dients, then milk and egg. Bake on hot griddle. 

Rice Qriddle=cakes. 

134 cups jnilk. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 cup boiled rice. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 teasxxions baking-powder. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Pour milk over rice, add salt and baking-powder 
to flour, add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon color, 
then the melted butter, then flour, and, last, the well- 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Bread Cakes. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. IJ^ cups milk. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 cup flour. 

Add milk and butter to crumbs, soaked until crumbs 
are soft, add eggs', then flour, salt and baking-powder 
well mixed. Bake same as other griddle-cakes 



BREAD AND BEEAD-MAKING. S9 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 yeast cake. 

1 teaspoon salt. i-2 cup ■warm water. 

2 cups buckwheat flour. J^ teaspoon soda. 

1 tablespoon molasses or brown sugar. 

Add molasses and salt to the milk, and when cool 
enough add half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, and the buckwheat to make rather a stiff batter. 
Let it rise overnight. In the morning beat down well, 
and add half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm 
water. (Do not have the water too hot.)' Cook same 
as any griddle-cake, being careful not to turn but once. 

Waffles. 

2 cups flour. 1 tablespoon melted lard. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

IJ^ cups milk. 3 teaspoons baking-powder (level.) 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk gradually, yolks of 
eggs well beaten, the melted lard, and, last, th'e whites 
beaten stiff and folded in. 

The waffle iron should fit closely, be very hot, and 
well greased with good fresh lard. Put one tablespoon- 
ful of the batter in each compartment of the hot iron, 
and the mixture will then spread to fill the iron. If 
your iron is sufficiently heated, you should be able to 
tuTn at once. Serve with maple molasses, honey, or 
any sweet desired. 

Rice Waffles. 

2 cups flour. 4 tablespoons baking-powder. 
J^ cup cooked rice. Yz teaspoon salt. i 

IJ^ cups milk. 1 tablespoon melted lard. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 

Mix ' dry ingredients, work in rice with back of 
wooden spoon or the tips of fingers, add milk, yolks of 



30 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

eggs well beaten, and melted lafd; whites beaten stiff., 
Cook same as waffles-. 

Raisied Doughnuts. 

1 cup scalded milk. 3 taialespoons butter (lerel). 

Yz yeast cake. 1 cup sugar. 

J^ cup lukewarm water. 2 eggs. 

Nutmeg, or cinnamon to flavor. 1 teaspoon salt. 
Flour to make a stiff batter. 

To the scalded milk add the sallj, sugar and butter; 
when cool, add the yeast cak^e dissolved in water. Then 
th^ flour, and let lit rise to double its bulk; if too soft 
to handle, add more flour. Turn on well-floured board 
and roll to three-qijiarter ih^h in thickness.- Shape with 
cutter, lay on floured board, and let rise again. Fry in 
deep fat, drain on paper. Sprinkle with powdered'' 
sugar. 

Doughnuts. 

IM cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

3 tablespoons butter 4 teaspoons baking-powder; 

3 eggs. y^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon salt. Flour to roll. 

Cream butter and add sugar gradually. Beat eggs 
until light without separating, then :&our eiaough to 
make a dough you can turn on a well-flbured board and 
handle, using about one-third of the mixture at a time- 
Shape with doughnut cUtter, and fry in deep fat, I'v^hich 
must be kept of uniform temperature. (Rule for testing 
fat is forty seconds for cooked material such as cro- 
quettes, oysters, etc., and sixty , seconds for doughnuts 
and any uncooked foods.) The doughnut wants to 
come quickly to the top brown, be turned, and brown 
on the other side., 



\ BREAD AND .BREAD-MAKING. ' 31 

I J, 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

2 oupa floul-. 3 .tablespoons butter. 

J^ tQaspoon, salt. Milk to make a soft dough. 

4 tablespoons baking-powder (leyel). 

Mix dry ingredients, chop in butter, add milk. Toss 
on ■well-floured board, divide in halves, pat and shape 
to size of square cake tin that has been well buttered. 
Brush first layer with one tablesj^oon melted butter, 
shape second half aijid lay lightly on the buttered half. 
Brush top with milk, place in oven and bake a' golden 
brown. 

To Prepare th6 Berries. 

"Wash one quart of Ijerries and stem them after they 
drain. With a small 'knife slice the berries in thin slicejs 
and sprinkle with one pint of sugar; let them stand 
for one hour." When your crust is done, turn on cloth 
and remove the bdttom piece and place on a hot platter 
that you can send to table to serve from. Use a ladle 
with holes in it and drain the juice from the berries 
as you dip them, lip. Spread berries on bottom layer 
of cake on platter and place top layer on. - Put ' in 
warming oven until ready to serve. 

Sauce for Shortcake. 

^ cujt butter. 2 cups boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. ' 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

• Juice trqm berries. • 1 tablespoon lemon juioe. 

^ Cream butter, add sugar slowly, mixed with the 

cornstarch. Add the boiling water. Place on the fire 
, and cook for fiye minutes, stirring all the while after 

it begins to boil. Remove from the fire, add the juice 
.from the berries and the tablespoon of lemon juice, and 

send to table to be poured over shortcake as it is 

served. 



32 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

This same rule is used to make shortcake from any 
of the small fruits and berries, also for apricot, peach, 
etc. Cherries are cooked for ten minutes, then the 
cherries dipped out and juice reserved for sauce. The 
peach wants to be ripe and very soft. Lay in sugar 
for one hour, and dip out same as the strawberry. Pine- 
apple is good. 

I never use cake dough for making frti.it shortcake. 
The crisp crust without the sugar is the best. 



CEREALS. 33 

CHAPTEE IV. 

CEREALS. 

"We cultivate literature on a little oatmeal." — Sidney Smith. 

OUR cereals include wheat, oats, rye, barley, corii 
and rice. The wheat is probably used most for. 
the reason it is more easily digested than the others, 
excepting rice. 

From the wlieat flour we get our macaroni, spaghetti 
and vermicelli, with various kinds of pastes from Italy. 
Our best macaroni comes from Italy, although our own 
country manufactures it to some extent. We find the 
imported best for the reason that the Italian wheat is 
richer in glutine than what we produce, which is due 
to the difference in climate. 

■The cereals want always to be cooked in double 
boiler, to avoid burning. The oat cereals want thirty 
minutes' cooking, and longer does not hurt. The coarse 
oat meal, \yhich we seldom get any more, will require 
three hours. 

"Wheat cereals want twenty 6iinutes' cooking, using 
one and three-quarter cups water to the cup of cereal. 
Rice wants to be boiled one hour. The amount of wet- 
ting depends on the age of the rice. Com me;al will re- 
quire from two and a half to three hours' cooking; the 
coarse hominy, from four to five hours; fine hominy, 
one hour. 

Gom-meal mush left over can be shaped ip. some- 
thing to prevent crusting, and fried for breakfast; but, 
in my opinion, the best fried mush is made Quickly and 
fried at once in hot fat. Dip up by the spoonful and 



34 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

drop m by pushing off with a knife. - The fat will re- 
quire to have a little butter in it to make the mush 
brown. Serve with hot syrup made of brown sugar. 

Rice with Cheese. 

1 cup cooked rice. J^ pound cream cheese. 

Oayenne pepper. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Milk. 

Rissoto k la Creole. 

1 cup rice. 3 cups brown stock. 

J^ cup butter. 1 cup strained tomato. 

Melt and heat butter in frying-pan, put rice in and 
stir until well browned. Add stock and strained tomato, 
and cook in double boiler until soft. Turn on serving- 
dish and serve with sauce made with : 

1 small onion. }^ cup mushrooms. 

1 green pepper (shredded). 3 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons flouT. 1 cup strained tomatoes. 

3 tablespoons sherry wine. Salt to taste. 

•Cook onion and pepper in butter, add tomatoes and 
mushrooms, cook five minutes, remove from fire, pour 
in sauce-boat, add sherry and serve on rice at table. 

Macaroni with Cheese 

Put one layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking- 
dish, and sprinkle with grated cheese. Repeat, pour 
over all a thin white sauce, and sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs. Bake twenty minutes, or until nicely browned. 

Boiled Macaroni. 

Cook macarotii thirty-five minutes in boiling salted 
water, with a little cayenne pepper. Always stir with 
a fork to keep from sticking. This is served with grated 
Parmesan, cheese- and thin cream skuce as an entree. 



CEREALS. 35 

M&caroni wants always to have cold water poured 
over it when soft, to keep the pieces from adhering to 
each other. 

Spaghetti d I'ltalienne. 

y^, package spaghetti. 1 tablespoon flour. 

, 1 onion. ^ 1 clip muahrooms. 

J^ pound grated cream cheese. V/^ cups strained tomatoesj 
1 green pepper (shredded). 4 tablespoons b^utter. 

Boil spaghetti in plenty of salted water until tender. 
Drain and pour on cold water- to prevent sticking. 
Cook onion, pepper, flour and mushrooms in butter for 
a few moments, and add strained tomato. Put into a 
well-buttered baking-dish a layer of the boiled spaghetti 
and a layer of the Italian sauce and grated cheese. 
Repeat, having layer of cheese for top. * Bake uiitii 
brown. One-fourth cup wine is good put over top just 
as you send it to table. 

Macaroni and spaghetti can either bte cooked by any 
of the above rules. They are made from the same 
paste, only different-sized pipes. 



36 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER V. 

SOUPS. 

SOUPS are divided into two classes — the "fat" and 
, ' ' lean. ' ' The French class them as soups made . 
with stock and those made without. 

Brown Stock — Made from beef bones and fat. 

White Stock— Made from chicken or veal. 

Bouillon — Made from lean beef seasoned and cleared. 

Consomme — ^Made from beef, veal and fowl, and 
very highly seasoned with vegetables, spices and sweet 
herbs, and always cleared: 

Lamb Broth — Made from mutton delicately seasoned. 

Cream Soups— rMade from vegetables or fish, with 
seasonings and cream. 

Purees — Made from, vegetables or fish forced through 
a strainer and put in the soup. Purees are thicker than 
cream soups. Sometimes we use white stock in making 
them. 

Bisques — Generally made from shell-fish, milk and 
seasonings, and served with fish dice in them. 

A French cook-book will give you more than a 
hundred kinds of soups, each taking its liame from 
some ingredient that is put, into it or from some dis- 
tinguished person to whom it was served first. 

Soup Stock. 

6 pounds from middle out A bouquet of paxsley, sweet 

of shin. maxjoram and thyme. 

1 carrot. ,1 turnip. 

1 stick of celery. 1 onion. 

14 bay leaf. y^ teaspoon peppercorns. 

3 cloves. 1 tablespoon salt. 

"Water to cover one inch above the meat. 



SOUPS. ' 37 

Wipe the beef and cut the lean meat from the bone. 
Brown one-third of the meat in some butter or the 
marrow from the bone. Put the remaining two-thirds, 
with the bones in soup-kettle, add water and salt, and 
bring very slowly to the boiling-point.- Cover closely 
and cook for from-four to five hours, allowing it to only 
bubble under the surface. Add vegetables and season- 
ing the last hour of cooking, and the spices the last ten 
minutes. Spices cooked too long lose their fresh flavor. 
Strain through sieve into agate or stone ware, and cool 
quickly uncovered. Then, as soon as the fat hardens 
on the top, we remove it and clear the stock. 

To Clear Soup Stock. 

Remove fat from stock and put stock in. sauce-pan. 
Allow white and shell of one egg to each quart of stock. 
Heat them slightly and mix well with spoon, place on 
the fire and stir constantly until the boiling-point is 
reached. Boil for two or three minutes and set back 
where it keeps h'ot, but does not boil for ten or twenty 
minutes. Strain through a double of cheese-cloth re^t ■ 
ing on a strainer. It is then ready to be seasoned more, 
if necessary, and the addition of any vegetable or paste 
you wish to put to it. It will take its name from the 
solid you add to it, the stock being -the foundation of 
■all soups which come under the name of stock or fat. 
soups. 

The Way We Bind Soups. 

Cream soups and purees will separate when they 
stand, unless they are bound together with flour and 
butter. To do this we use equal quantities of butter 
and flour, according to the amount of soup we are mak- 
ing. Put the butter in saucepan, and when it bubbles 



38 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

add flour, then some o"f the hot soup, and stir until 
smooth; then turn slowly into your soup in double 
boiler, and keep hot Until serving-time. Your soups 
are a stimulant for the stomach, and should always be 
served hot. This especially should be the rule for the 
clear soups and bouillons. A cream soup or puree, with 
salad and bread and butter, makes a meal. 

Tomato Bouillon. 

1 quart tomatoes. 1 pint water. 

1 tablespoon minced oniori. 1 tablespoon minoed parsley. 
4 cloves. 6 peppercorns. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon lean ham. 

Salt, to taste. 

Cook all together for ten minutes, strain through 
sieve, cool, and clear with whites and shells of two eggs, 
same as any soup stock. Heat very hot and serve in 
cups. ' 

Tomato Bouillon with Oysters. 

To the above recipe add one pint of oysters that 
have been parboiled in their own liquor, and drained 
on sieve for a few moments. 

Bouillon. 

5 pounds lean beef Carrot" 

from middle of round. Turnip J^ cup each, 
2 pounds bone, cut up well. Onion ' cut fine. 

1 teaspoon peppercorns. , Celery j 
1 tablespoon salt. ' 

Water to cover all about 1 inch above meat and bones, 

meat being cut and placed in compact. 

Brown one-third of the meat' in some butter or fat 
from marrowbone. Put the browned meat and bones 
in the kettle with the other two-thirds of meat. Bring 



SOUPS. 39 

to the boiling-point slowly, and remove to slow fire, 
where it keeps at boiling-point for four hours, adding 
seasoning and vegetables the /last hour of cqoking. . 
StrJtin, cool and cl^ar. Serve hot in bouillon cups. 

White Stock. 

3 pounds knuckle of veal. 2 stalks celery. 
1 pound lean beef. 1 dozen peppercorns. 

1 onion. 54 ^^y leaf. 

1 small carrot. 2 sprigs thyme. 

2 icloves (pinch out end). 

Wipe meat, cut from bone in small pieces, cut beef 
in pieces, and put in soup-kettle ; cover with cold water, 
add tablespoon salt. Cook slowly for four hours, keep- 
ing it below the boiling-point. Add vegetable and sea- 
soning last hour. The stock should reduce one-third 
if kept at proper degree of heat. 

Chicken Soup. 

3-pound fowl. 1 onion, cut in slices. 

5 pints water. ij^ small carrot. 

1 tablespoon salt. > ' 1 cup cream. 

1 stalk celery. 1 egg. 

14 teaspoon peppercorn. 

Boil fowl whole or cut up just as you please. Bring 
quickly to the boiling-point, then let simmer until meat 
is tender, when you stick fork in second joint. Re- 
move meat, add seasonings and vegetables, cut very fine, 
and continue simmering for about twenty minutes. 
Strain, cool and remove the fat ; thicken with two table- 
spoons butter (level) and two tablespoons flour. Beat' 
egg very light, add cream, and just as you are ready 
to send to table turn eggs and cream in soup ; heat, but 
do not boil or the egg may curdle. Tou can add two 
tablespoons sherry wine with cream and egg. 



40 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Chicken Broth. 

This same stock is served as chicken broth without 
the thickening or egg. Serve in bouillon cups. 

Turkey Soup. 

Break the carcass in pieces, with any bits of meat 
left over. , Eemove all dressing. Cover with cold water 
and simmer one and a half hours. Strain, cool and 
remove fat. Season with salt, pepper and a stalk of 
celery. Cook the celery with the carcass. This is very 
good. 

Potage a la Reine. 

4 cups white chicken J^ cup cream. 

stock. y^ cup cracker crumbs."- 

12 peppercorns. ' 2 cups scalded milk. 
Slice of onion. J^ cup cold milk. 

Stalk of celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons butter. Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

Cook stock with seasonings fifteen minutes, chop, 
and rub the breast meat of the fowl, as fine as it can be 
made. Rub the eggs through a sieve. Soak the cracker 
crumbs in the cold milk until soft. Add two eggs. Mix 
thoroughly, and , add the chopped meat to egg and 
cracker mixture, then pour on the hot milk slowly. 
Turn all-into the strained stock, boil two or three min- 
utes, and bind with the butter and flour. Turn in the 
half cup cream and serve at once. This was Queen 
Victoria's favorite soup. 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup, 

4 cups white stock. i,| cup butter. 

1 stalk celery. J^ cup flour. 
Small piece of onion. 2 cups milk. 

2 yolks^ of eggs. , J^ cup cream. 

1 cauliflower, boiled until t'nder. 



A-B GAS RANGES S^.Z.'SZ 



SOUPS. 41 

Soak cauliflower head down in cold water with table- 
spoon of salt ; cook in boiling salted water twenty min- 
utes. Reserve about half of the nicest part of the 
flowerets, and rub the remainder through sieve. Saute 
the onion and celery in butter a few moments; remove, 
add the flour, and stir into the hot stock; add the 
cauliflower and hot milk. . Slason to taste, with salt 
and pepper. Strain, reheat, and add the yolk of eggs 
and half cup of cream. Add flowerets and send to table 
at once. This can be made without the eggs and cream, 
but is better with them. 

Cream of Lettuce Soup. 

3 cups white stock. 2 tableBpoons butter. 

2 tablespoons rice. J^ cup cream. 

Slice of ouion, cut fine. Yolk of 1 egg. 

2 hea,ds lettuce, cut fine. Salt and pepper. 

Cook onion a few moments in butter (do not let 
it brown), add lettuce, and toss a few moments in the 
butter to get the flavor. Add the rige and stock, cook 
until the rice is soft, strain throu^gh sieve, then add 
cream and yolk of egg, salt and pepper, and serve. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

3 cups white stock. J^ ciip flour. 

3 bunches asparagus. 2 cups scalded milk. 

Slice' of onion. 3 cups cold water.^ 

}.| cup butter. Salt and pepper. 

Remove the tips from asparagus, tie up m piece of 
cheesie-cloth, and cook on top of asparagus to, serve in 
the soup. Add asparagus to cold water, simmer until 
tender, then onion and stock. Boil, thirty minutes, rub 
through a sieve, and bind' with the butter and flour and 
the tips that you have cooked in the cheesecloth until 
tender. Add scalded milk;^salt and pepper. 



42 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

3 cups white stock. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 cups celery, cut in inch pieces. 3 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups boiling water. 2 cups milk. 

Slice onion. 1 cup cream. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook celery five or ten minutes, drain and cook in 
the stock until tender, and rub through sieve. Scald 
onion in milk in. double boiler, remove onion, add stock, 
and bind with the butter and flour. Add cream and 
seasoning, arid serve very hot. 

Spinach Soup. 

4 cups white stock. J^ peck spinach. 

2 cups milk. 3 cups boiling water. 
% cup butter. Salt and pepper. 

14 cup flour. 

Thoroughly wash the spinach, cook twenty-five min- 
utes in boiling water with half teaspoon of salt and half 
teaspoon of sugar; drain, chop and rub through sieve. 
Add stock, heat tb boiling-point, bind with butter and 
flour, add milk seasoning, and serve at once. It is best 
to keep all cream soups in double boiler to keep hot and 
not boil. 

/ Scotch Soup. 

3 pounds mutton from fore- Water to cover meat, 
quarter. 1 small onion. 

2 tablespoons carrot in dice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons turnip, diced. Pepper to taste. 

3 tablespoons flour. 3 tablespoons barley. 

"Wipe meat and cut in small pieces, refusing all fat 
and skin. Add water, bring to boiling-point, skim, 
cook slowly for two hours. Add the salt, pepper, carrot, 
turnip and onion for the last hour's cooking. Soak, 
strain, cool, and remove fat; reheat and thicken with 



SOUPS. 43 

the flour. Cook barley that has been soaked overnight 
until tender, drain and add to soup. If barley , were 
cooked in the soup, it would absorb most of the broth. 
You can use rice prepared in the same way if you pre- 
fer it, and the cube§ of carrot,, turnip and onion can 
be cooked until tender and put in the soup same time 
with the barley or rice. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

1 calf's head. ■ J^ teaspoon peppercornsi 

6 cloves (ends pinched out). 1 small onion, sliced. 

1 small carrot, diced. 2J^ cups brown stock. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. - J^ cup butter. 

% cup flour. Juice of J^ lemon. . 

1 cup stewed and strained Jg cup Madeira wine, 
tomato. 

"Wash and clean calf's head. Soak from one to two 
hours in cold water to cover. Cook until tender in three 
and a half quarts salted boiling water, to which the 
seasonings and vegetables have been added. Remove 
head, boil stock until reduced to one quart, strain and 
cool. Melt and brown butter, add flour, and stir until 
well browned, then pour on slowly brown stock. Add 
head stock, tomato and one cup force-meat cut in dice, 
and lemon juice ; also egg balls made from, yolks of eggs. 
Heat very hot, add wine and serve at once. 

Mullig^atawny Soup. 

5 cups white stock. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup tomatoes. J| cup butter. 
1 pepper, chopped fine. 3 cloves. 

^1 apple, sliced. Sprig parsley. 
1 cup boiled rice. Very little curry powder. 

Onion, carrot and celery, Salt and pepper to taste. 

1^ cup each, cut fine. ,1 cup raw chicken, cut in 
small pieces. 



44 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cook vegetables and chicken in the butter until 
brown. Mix curry powder and flour, add to the butter 
and vegetables, with the cloves, parsley, stock and to- 
mato. Simmer one hour and ten minutes, .strain, re- 
serving tlie pieces of chicken, and rub the vegetables 
through a wire puree sieve. Reheat, add chicken, boiled 
rice, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Consomme. 

4 lbs. roiind of beef and bone. 3 lbs. knuckle of veal. 

J^ Clip each carrot, tnmip 2 or 3 sprigs each parsley, 

and celery, cut fine. thyme and marjoram. 

1 3-poTmd fowl. 1 teaspoon peppercorns. 

3 tablespoons butter. 3 cloves. 

J^ bay leaf. 1 tablespoon salt. 
1 onion, sliced. i 

Cut the beef into small pieces and brown one-third 
of it in the marrow from the bones or some 'butter; 
put remaining quantity in soup-kettle with veal and 
bones cut very fine, so they can be placed in the kettle 
compactly. Turn in the browned pieces of meat, and 
turn some water in the frying-pan you take the meat 
from, and get all the brown from the pan and turn 
into the kettle to give the soup a fine color. Then cover 
the meat and bones in the soup-kettle one inch above 
the meat, heat slowly to the boiling-point, and simmer 
for three hours. Cook your fowl in water enough to 
make about one quart of stock; it will require about 
two and a half hours' cooking, or until the fowl is 
quite tender. Add this liquor to your soup-kettle and 
simmer one hour longer. Cook the celery, turnip, carrot 
and onion with two tablespoons butter for five minutes, 
and turn into^the soup with the remaining seasonings, 
and cook for one hour and a quarter. Strain, cool. 



SOUPS. 45 

quickly, remove fat, and clear. The fowl can be used 
for creamed chicken croquettes or chicken salad. 

This consomme is used with a variety of ingredients, 
and whatever solid is put into it gives it its name. 
For example: 

Consomme with vegetables cut any shape you like, 
and cooked until tender before you put them in the 
consomm^. 

Consomme Princess. 

Consomme with diced chicken and tender peas.' 

Consomm6 Aux Pates. 

Consomme with Italian pastes that have been first 
cooked in boiling salted water until tender. It can 
be either macar6ni, spaghetti or noodles. 

Consomme with Poaclied Egg; 

Poach and serve one egg to each plate. 

' Cosnomme a la Royale. 

Consomme with royal custard cut in fancy shape 
and put just as you send it to the table. 

SOUPS WITH FISH STOCK. 

Clam Soup with Poaclied Egg. 

1 quart clams. 2 tablespoons floTir. 

■a tablespoons butter. Whites of two eggs. 

1 small onion, sliced. 4 cups mili. ^ 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean and pick over the clams, using three-fourths 
cup of water. ' Reserve the liquor. Put aside the soft 
parts and chop fine the hard parts. B-ing gradually 



48 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER VI. 

SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK 

Corn Soup. 

1 can corn. 1 small onion. 

1 cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons butter. 

B cups milk. 2 tablespoons flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the corn fine, add the water and simmer twelve 
or fifteen minutes; rub through a sieve. Scald the milk 
with the onion, remove onion, and add milk to com. 
Hind with the butter and flour cooked together. Add 
salt and pepper, and serve with popcorn that has been 
freshly popped. 

Pea Soup. 

1 can marrowfat peas. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 cups cold water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

3 cups milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 slice onion. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain peas from their liquor, and rinse them in 
■ccld water; add cold water and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Rub through puree sieve, reheat, and thicken vdth flour 
and butter cooked together. Scald milk and onion in 
double boiler, remove onion, and add milk to the pea 
mixture. Half cup thin cream will improve the soup, 

Black Bean Soup. 

1 pint black beans. 1 small onion. 

2 quarts water. 3 tablespoons butter. 
^2 stalks celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 
Va tablespoon salt. 2 bard-boiled eggs, 
Vs teaspoon pepper. 1 lemon. 

% teaspoon mustard, 1 cup stock, 



SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 49 

Wash beans and soak them overnight with water 
to cover them three inches above the beans; in the 
morning drain them and put them on to boil in the 
two quarts Of cold water. Cook the onion for a few 
moments in one tablespoon of the butter, adding to 
the beans With the celery cut into inch pieces; simmer 
three or four hours until the beans are soft, adding 
more water as water boils away. "When soft, rub through 
a sieve, reheat to the boilijjg-point, and add the cup 
of stock. Mix salt, pepper, mustard and cayenne well 
together, and add to the bean puree. Bind with the 
remaining butter and flour cooked together. Cut egg? 
and lemons in thin slices, and strain the soup over 
them in the tureen. Serve very hot. 

Bean Soup. 

3 cups cooked beans, either 1 cup celery, cut fine, 
baked or boiled. 2 talespoons butter. 

2 pints water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 small onion. 2 tablespoons Chill sauce. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Put the beans, onion and celery m saucepan to- 
gether, and simmer together for twent;y-flve or thirty- 
minutes. Rub through a sieve, and add Chili, sauce, 
cayenne, salt and pepper, and bind with the flour and 
butter cooked together for a few moments. Should the 
soup seem too thick, you can thin it with stock, milk 
or water. 

Celery Soup. 

3 cups celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 
3 cups milk. 1 small onion. 

1 pint boiling -water. , Salt arid pepper. ' 

3 tablespoons, butter. Va cup thiu cream, 



50 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

"Wash and scrape the celery before cutting, cook 
in boiling water, and rub through a sieve. Scald milk 
and onion in double boiler, and add milk to celery. 
Bind with butter and flour cooked together, season 
with salt and pepper to taste, add cream and serve 
at once. 

Split=pea Soup. 

1 cup split peas. 3 tablespoons butter. 
5 pints -water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

V2 large or 1 small onion. % teaspoon peppef. 

Soak peas overnight, drain, and add .the five pints 
of cold water. Simmer until soft enough to rub through 
a sieve ;: put in the onion when they are about half done. 
Kub all through a sieve, and bind with the butter and- 
flour, and dilute with the milk that is heated to the 
scald in double boiler. Add more milk if it is neces- 
sary, as this milk soup wants to be about as thick as 
cream. 

Potato Soup. 

3 medium-sized potatoes. 1% teaspoons salt. 

1 quart milk. 1 stalk celery. 

2 slices onion. Dash cayenne. 

3 tablespoons butter. Little wUite pepper. 

2 tablespoons flour. ' 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water until very 
soft, and rub them through a sieve. Scald milk in 
double boiler with onion and celery; remove onion and 
celery, and add milk slowly to the potatoes. Bind the 
■soup with butter and flour, add the seasoning, sprinkle 
with the parsley, and serve. 



A-B GAS RANGES "^"peS "" 

SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 51 

Tomato Soup. 

1 can tomatoes. 2 tablespoonsi sugar. 

1 pint water or stock ' 2 teaspoons salt. 

(preferable stock). 2 tablespoons butter. 

12 peppercorns. 2% tablespoons flour. 

3 cloves. 2 tablespoons minced ham. 

Cook all 'together for twenty minutes and strain. 
Bind with butter and flour cooked together; turn into 
tureen. 

Squash Soup. 

^ • 
1 cup cooked squasb. 2 tablespoonsi butter. 

1 slice onion. 2 tablespoons flour. 

4 cups milk. % cup cream. 

1 egg, beaten well. 

Rub squash through sieve. Scald milk and onion, 
and remove onion. Bind with flour and butter. Add 
cream; heat, but do not boil. 

Cream of Tomato. 

1 can tomatoes. i tablespoons flour. 

' 1 quart milk. 2 teaspoons salt. 

% cup cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

4 tablespoons butter. % teaspoon soda. 

Paprica and white pepper. 

Scald milk and onion, remove onion, and thicken 
milk with flour, being careful not to lump it. Let it 
cook in double boiler for twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly at first. Cook tomatoes and sugar until they 
strain easily; rub through the sieve and add soda. 
Combine the mixture and turn into the tureen over 
the butter salt, paprica and pepper. Serve at once. 



52 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

' Vegetable Soup. 

1 quart stock or water. 1 tablespoon barley. > 

Vi cip carrots. 1 sour apple. 

% cup turnips. 1 tablespoon finely 

.% cup celery. chopped parsley. 

1^ cup potatoes.* Salt and pepper. 

% cup onions. Dash cayenne. 

Cut vegetables very fine, first in strips, then cut 
them across. Measure after cutting. Soak barley fo!r 
two or three hours or overnight. Mix vegetables and 
cook in four talalespoons of butter for a few moments, 
stirring all the time; add the potatoes, barley and 
apple, then the stock or water, and cook for one hour 
very slow. Beat with fork to break the vegetables. 
Add a little butter, parsley, salt and pepper, and serve. 

CHOWDERS. 

Oyster Chowder. 

1 quart oysters. 1 tablespoon salt. 

5 cups potatoes. %. teaspoon pepper. 

1 sliced onion. 14 cup butter. 

4 cups scalded milk. 8 common crackers. 

1%-inch cube fat pork. Cut potatoes in 14-inch slicei>. 

Clean oysters by pouring over them one cup cold 
water in colander. Lift each one carefully to see there 
are no pieces of shells; reserve the liquor. Cut salt 
, pork in small pieces, and try out. Add onion and fry 
five minutes. Strain fat into stewpan. Parboil pota^- 
toes five mi"nutes in boiling Water to cover, drain, and 
add potatoes to fat. Pour over the oyster liquor that 
has been boiled and skimmed. Should there not be as 
much as two cups, add enough water to make the 
amount. Cook ten minutes or until potatoes are soft. 



CHOWDBES. Sl8 

Add oysters, and as soon as they are plump and edges 
curled, add the scalded milk, butter, salt, pepper (to 
taste), and crackers split and soaked in. a little cold 
milk to moisten them. 

Pish Chowder. 

3% pounds cod or haddock. 1%-incli cube salt pork. 

4 cups potatoes cut in %- 1 tablespoon salt. 

inch slices. 14 teaspoon ■ pepper. 

1 onion, sliced. 4 tablespoons butter. 

4 cups scalded milk. 
8 common crackers, soaked in cold, milk to moisten. 

Have fish skinned, leaving on head and tail. Cut 
off head and tail, and remove fish from backbone, and 
cut fish in .nice pieces about two inches in size, and set 
aside. Put on in saucepan the bones, head and tail, 
with two and a half cups of watet, and simmer for about 
thirty minute's. Cut pbrk into small, thin pieces, ahd 
try out in frying-pan ; in the fat of the pork put slices 
. of onion and cook for five minutes, but do not let them 
brown. Strain fat into saucepan. Parboil the potatoes 
for five minutes, drain and turn into saucepan with 
onion and pork fat, then add two cups of boiling water, 
and cook for five minutes. Add liquor drained from 
bones with the pieces of fish; cover and simmer twelve 
or fifteen minutes ; add scalded milk, butter, salt, pepper 
and a dash of cayenne, and the crackers split and moist- 
ened in the cold milk. 

Chowder k la Creole. 

This chowder can be made from the above recipe, 
using three cups of strained tomatoes instead of the 
milk. 



54 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Clam Chowder. 

1 quart clams. % teaspoon pepper. ' 

4 cujis potatoes, cut in i 4 cups scalded milk. 
■%-incli dice. 4 tal)lespoons butter. 

1 sliced ' onion. 8 crackers'. 

1 tablespoon salt 1% inch cube salt pork 

cut in tbin slices. 

Clean and pick over clams; wash with cup of cold 
water; drain, reserve liquor, heat to boiling-point, and 
strain. Eemove the hard part of the clam and chop 
it very fine. Cut pork in thin, small pieces, and try 
out in frying-pan. Cook onion in pork fat for five 
minutes, and strain into saucepan. Parboil the pota- 
toes for not longer than three or four minutes, drain 
and put -layer in saucepan. Add the chopped clams, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour, 
using two or three tablespoonfuls. , Add remaining 
potatoes, dredge agaiii, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and add two and a half cups of boiling water. Cook 
ten minutes; add milk, soft part of the clams and the 
butter. Boil two minutes, add the crackers split and 
moistened. Reheat the water from the clams to boiling- 
point, thicken with tablespoon each of butter and flour 
cooked together, and add to chowder just before serving. 
ing. 



GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 55 

CHAPTER VII. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 

Porce=meat Balls. 

CHOP any cooked meat fine (what is better, put it 
through the meat-grinder), season it very highly 
with onion juice, lemon juice, salt, pepper and a dash 
of cayenne, little minced parsley and thyme. Bind 
together with egg, form into balls, roll in flour, and 
poach in boiling water. They may be sauted, but are 
better poached. 

Noodles. 

Use one egg, half teaspoon of salt, with flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Beat egg slightly, add salt, and 
flour for a stiff dough. Knead. slightly, and toss on a 
board floured as lightly as possible. Roll very thin, as 
thin as paper; cover with clean cloth, and rest for 
twenty minutes; then roll as jelly roll and cut into 
slices just as thin as possible, or shape in fancy shapes 
with vegetable-cutter, but the jelly roll is the most 
practical. 

Royal Custard. 

3 egg yolks. % teaspoon salt. 

1 whole egg. Dash cayenne. 

% cup beef stock. 

Beat eggs slightly, and add salt and beef -stock.' 
Pour the mixture into pan or flat- dish, having it half- 
inch deep. Place this pan or dish inside of another with 
several thicknesses of paper and water to come half 
way up the dish with the custard in it, and place it in a 



56 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

moderate oven in order that it may set and not bubble 
or brown on the top. Set where it 'will become per- 
fectly cold, and cut it from the dish in cubes or fancy 
shapes if desired. It should be placed very carefully 
in tureen just at serving-time, allowing three or four 
pieces^ to a service. 

Egg Balls. 

Rub through a potato-ricer the hard-boiled yollfs of 
three eggs. Season with salt, pepper and a little cay- 
enne, and moisten with the uncooked yolk of one egg 
to bind it together. Form into small balls, using one- 
third of a teaspoonful to each ball. Roll in white of 
egg, then in flour, and poach in boiling ;water, or fry 
in butter. Serve in mock turtle, consomme or bouillon. 

Marrow Balls. 

Melt and strain one tablespoon marrow into a bowl; 
beat it until very creamy, then add one egg and beat 
it again thoroughly. Season with pepper, salt and 
paprika. Add to this as much soft bread crumbs as it 
will moisten. Roll into- balls and poach in boiling water. 

Green Peas for Garnish. 

To one cup green peas put through a potato-ricer 
and freed from the skins, add one tablespoon soup 
stock and whites of three eggs, and season with salt, 
a teaspoon of sugar, and a little white pepper. Mix 
thoroughly and place in a mould. Set the mould in 
pan filled partly with hot water, putting two or three 
doubles of paper under the mould. Cook in slow oven 
until the mixture is set aiid firm. Cool, unmould, cut 
into cubes, and serve in soup just as you send to the 
table, 



PEEPAEATION AND CARE OF FISH. 57 



CHAPTER VIII. 

PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 

"The turbot shall be served at the king's coronatloB, 
taken in the kingdom or elsewhere." — Kirmn's Diners and 
Dining. 

FISH is an article o( food which requires great care 
and clear, good judgment on the part of the 
housewife. It wants to be perfectly fresh, properly 
cleaned and well cooked. If underdone, it sliould 
never be served; while, on the other hand, overcooking 
spoils the flavor and makes it dry. The sooner it is 
cooked, after being taken from the water, the better 
for fish and the ones to whom it is served. The story 
of the steward reaching under the table and drawing 
the fish from the stream running through the king's 
dining-room, as told by Kerwen 'in an old English cook- 
book which I have, is a fine illustration of the best 
condition, for the fish to be in when served at his mas- 
ter's table. The guest knew it was fresh and would 
be cooked to perfection, and thought of it while it was 
being prepared, so that when it was presented, gar- 
nished and £(rranged in the most appetiziqg way, the 
palate was ready to enjoy 'it to a degree, and the fact 
that it was eaten with so much relish made it easy and 
quick of digestion; 

"When the fish is fresh the eyes are bright, the gills 
red, and the flesh firm and without odor. You can have 
your fish-dealer remove the scales and draw the fish 



58 SCIENTrFIC COOKING. 

before delivering. As soon as you get it, you thoroughly 
wash by letting the water run on the fish; never lay 
it in water to soak, as you lose the juices in this way. 
Wipe with a clean piece - of cheesecloth wrung out of 
cold, salted water until thoroughly dry and free from 
any slimy feeling which the fish is apt to have. Then 
wrap the fish in a cloth kept for that purpose, and 
over the cloth a thick, large piece of paper, and lay in 
the ice-box, , in some place in the top of the box, 
so it will not in any way interfere with milk and 
butter you may have in your box. It should lie 
(iirectly on the ice until ready to cook. Frozen fish 
should be laid in cold water until they thaw and be- 
come flexible, but not a bit longer. The head and tail 
should be left on, and the fins trimmed and shaped of 
a fish which is to be served whole. 

To Skin and Bone a Fish. 

"Wifh a sharp-pointed knife loosen the skin all around 
the head and down the backbone. Dip the hands in 
salted water, and you will be able to strip the skin off 
nicely. After the skin has been removed with a sharp- 
pointed knife, you loosen the flesh down the back, press- 
ing the knife against the bone until it is free. The 
fillet may then be cut into two or more pieces, accord- 
ing to the size of the fish. 

Fillets from sole, flounder, and other small, flat 
fishes, are sometimes rolled and skewered until cooked. 
Wooden toothpicks answer for this purpose admirably. 
Too much care can not be taken to have the fish fresh 
and well cared for, as it very quickly gathers ptomain, 
which is the cause of many cases of poisoning. 



PREPARATION AND CARE OF FISH. 59 

To Boil Pish. 

Clean, trim and wrap the, fish in a clean piece of 
cheesecloth or mosquito netting, tying it firm. Put to 
boil in salted water to cover the fish well, and add one 
tablespoon salt and one tablespoon vinegar or lemon 
juice to three quarts of water. This tends to whiten 
and harden the flesh of the fish, as well as to season 
it. A bay leaf and soup vegetables improve the flavor 
of haddock and codfish. Be sure the water is boiling 
hot when you put the fish in ; let it come to the boiling- 
point, then lower the heat to the simmering-point, for 
the fish wants the same kind of cooking we give the 
egg, as it is largely albumen. The fish-kettle is neces- 
sary where the fish is to be served whole, but in any 
case it is best to wrap in the cloth, although it can 
be tied into shape and rested on the strainer of the 
kettle. Allow ten minutes to the pound after the water 
begins to simmer. In preparing a fish to boil or bake 
that is to be served whole, it is much better to have it 
drawn from the throat. It can be be nicely done, as 
the writer has often done it ; and to keep it in shape, 
if you do not use fish stuffing, it is well to put a car- 
rot in to hold it firm, and prop it on the sides with 
either turnips or potatoes.- Garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs, or with the pars- 
ley alone, placing the garnish at head and tail, leav- 
ing the platter free on the sides for the carver. 

Boiled fish needs to be served with a rich sauce — 
drawn butter, HoUandaise or Bechamel. In the drawn- 
butter sauce you want to put finely chopped 'hard- 
boiled eggs. 



A.-B ENAMEL Gas Ranges 



Aa Eaay to Clean 
as a China Plate 



60 SCIENTIPIO COOKING. 

Baked Fish. 

After the fish has been carefully cleaned, drawn, 
eyes removed, fins and tail shaped, put in the stufiBng, 
sew up opening with a trussing or large needle; then 
cut three gashes on either side of the fish and lay some 
pieces of salt pork in each cut, and fasten with a wooden 
toothpiqk to hold it in place. You can shape it in the 
form of a letter S, if you like, with a long trussing- 
needle and a piece of whitp cotton cord drawn tightly, 
or prop on the sides with potatoes and leave in the 
natural shape. 

Dredge the fish with salt and pepper, and lay slices 
of pork in the pan and over the top of the fish. The 
pork gives a nice flavor and does the basting at the same 
time;, if the fire is kept low enough, the pan will not 
bum. This can be done nicely with the present-day 
gas stove. Allow fifteen minutes to the pound, and 
during the cooking baste with the pork fat as it cooks 
out. The fish is more easily removed if a fish-sheet is 
used in the bottom of the pan. 

Haddock, white lake fish, shad and bluefish are good 
for baking. Garnish with lemon, parsley or lettuce, and 
serve with HoUandaise, tomato or a brown sauce. 

Stuffing for Baked Pish. 

1 cup cracker crumbs or 1 tablespoon minced onion. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

% cup butter (melted). 1 tablespoon minced olives. 
1 teaspoon salt (level). 1 tablespoon minced pickles. 
Dash pepper. 1 tablespoon minced capers. 

1 egg to moisten. 

Fillets of Haddock with Oyster Stuffing. 

Skin and bone a four-pound haddock, leaving in 
the large bones near the head to keejp the fillets in 



PEEPAKATION AND CASH OP FISH. 61 

shape. Sprinkle with salt and brush with lemon juice. 
Place on a well -greased fish-sheet in a dripping-pan, 
and cover thickly between the fillets with oysters, well 
seasoned and dipped in buttered cracker crumbs. Place 
the fillets together and fasten in several places with 
small wooden toothpicks. Brush with egg slightly 
beaten, cover top with, buttered crumbs, and bake in 
moderate oven for forty or forty-five minutes. Serve 
with HoUandaise sauce. The oysters want to be large. 
Allow one cup of cracker crumbs to one pint of oysters 
after they are drained and cleaned. 

Stuffed Haddock, Oyster Sauce. 

' Clean, wipe, shape and sprinkle with salt 'on the in- 
side, and stuff with highly seasoned cracker crumbs, 
using a little onion juice. The fish wants to weigh from 
three and a half tO four pounds. Bake slowly in mod- 
erate oven, using salt pork on top of fish and in the 
pan to baste with. Serve with oyster sauce. 

Oyster Sauce. 

1 pint oysters. 14 cup butter. 

% cup flour. Chicken broth can be used 

1 cup oyster liquor. instead of milk. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

, Wash oyfeters in half cup of water. ' Heat the oyster 
liquor, and strain. Add the oysters to it and cook until 
plump. Remove the oysters, and make a sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk and oyster liquor. Add the oysters 
and season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Oyster Stuffing for Fish. 

1 cup cracker crumbs. 1 tablespoon chopped 
V4, cup butter. parsley. 

Yz pint oysters. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 tabl^poons lemon juice. (Moisten with oyster liquor. 



&2 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Crumb the crackers rather coarse, and stir into the 
melted butter; add thei seasoning's and the oysters that 
have been cleaned, and moisten with the liquor, using 
care not to have them too wet, as there will be moisture 
, from the oysters as they get hot in the baking. This 
stuffing' can be used for haddock, cod, slices of halibut, 
or any fish you desire to hake and stuff. 

Baked Halibut Steaks. 

Two halibut steaks cut one and a half inches thick; 
scrape well on the skin side, and wipe with cheesecloth 
wet in salt water. Lay on a well-buttered fish-sheet, 
and place in dripping-pan. Spread the top with soft 
butter, and cook in moderate oven until the fish leaves 
the center bone and will flake nicely. Use a very little 
water in bottom of pan, and baste several times while it 
is cooking. Serve with Tartar sauce and cucumbers, 
dressed with French dressing. This makes a beautiful 
fish course for a green luncheon. 

Fillets of Flounder. 

A piece of fish, large or small, freed from skin and 
bone, is called a fillet. "When fiounder is cut into fillets, 
it is often served as fillets of sole, a fish found in Eng- 
lish water and held in high esteem. * Select your 
flounders of uniform size and large enough that each 
fish will give you four fillets. Marinate them with two ' 
tablespoons of olive oil and one of lemon juice, with 
salt and pepper; or dip them in melted butter and 
dredge with salt and pepper. " Roll them, beginning at 
the broad end, and fasten with a wooden toothpick. 
Egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat for seven 
minutes, puttitg in four at a time, so as not to reduce 
the temperature of the fat too much. Dress the fillets 



PREPARATION AND CARE OP FISH. 63 

on a platter in a circle, and serve Tartar sauce in the 
center. Decorate the edge of the fish with slices of 
lemon and watercress or parsley. 

Shad. 

The best and most approved way of serving shad is 
to plank it. It is also broiled, baked, and. sometimes 
stuffed and baked. 

Planked Shad. 

Use a hardwood board one and a half to two inches 
thick. Split the fish down the back. Wash it well by 
letting the water run on the fish. Wipe it dry with 
soft cloth. Heat the plank before placing the shad on 
it, and rub it with lard so the fish will not stick. Rub 
the top of the fish with soft butter, and place in the 
broiler of your gas stove, and cook until the flesh of 
the fish leaves the bones readily when it is done. Place 
the plank on a tray and spread the fish with maitre 
d 'hotel butter, and serve from the plank. The plank 
can be dressed with mashed potatoes with rose tube and 
pastry bag and bunches of parsley, and this makes it 
very attractive. Our white lake fish is prepared in 
the same way. 

Shad Roe with Tartar Sauce. 

Put shad roe into boiling salted water, and simmer 
for ten minutes, being careful not to break the skin, 
and plunge them into cold water; when they are cold, 
with a sharp knife split them into nice-sized pieces 
to serve, and dredge- them with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice, and dip them in beaten egg, and roll in corn 
meal or bread crumbs, and brown them in butter. Gr 
they can be fried in deep fat, if you prefer, but the 
browning in the butter gives them a nice flavor. Pour 



64 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the Tartar sauce over them just as you send them to 
the table. 

Tartar Sauce. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. % cup butter. 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Salt to taste. 

Brown the butter in frying-pan, and pour it over 
the Worcestershire, salt and lemon juice, and pour the 
whole over the shad roe and serve at once. 

Turbans of Halibut. 

2 slices halibut, cut % cup melted butter. 

%-inch thick. Onion juice, salt and 

Juice of % lemon. pepper. 

Cut the bone from halibut, remove the skin, and 
make four turbans from each slice. Dip in the melted 
butter, season with salt, pepper, lemon and onion juice. 
Cominenee with the widest end, and roll each fillet into 
a turban, and fasten with a wooden toothpick. Bake 
about twenty minutesj basting with butter and hot 
water. Have serving-dish hot, and arrange in crown 
shape and fill the center with potatoes cut in cubes or 
balls, and seasoned with butter, salt and white . pepper. 
Use parsley and lemon juice to garnish the dish. 

To Cook Salt Mackerel. 

Let soak in cold water overnight, skin side up ; and, 
if you are going to broil them, drain and wipe them dry. 
Brush them with soft butter or olive oil. Place on a 
well-greased broiler skin side down, and place in the 
broiler, and when it is well browned it will be done. 
Remove carefully to hot serving-dish, and butter and 
garnish with lemon. If convenient, a half cup of hot 
cream is nice poured over it. Mackerel can be boiled 



PREPARATION AND CAEB OP FISH. 65 

after soaking instead of broiled, if preferred. In that 
case put it in boiling water, and keep it just at the 
simmering point for about fifteen minutes, and slide 
out carefully onto the serving-dish, and season with 
butter, pepper and tablespoon of lemon juice, and 
sprinkle with minced parsley. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie. 

Thoroughly wash and soak for one hour in cold 
water, skin side up. Pour off cold water and cover 
with boiling water, and keep where it keeps hot, but 
does not boil, for twenty minute^ Drain, wipe dry 
and broil, first brushing with soft butter. Place in the 
broiler, keep the gAs rather low, and cook for ten or 
twelve minutes. Turn onto a hot platter, butter and 
sprinkle with lemon juice. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Let a piece of nice codfish (the dun-cured is the 
best) be picked up into small pieces, covered with cold 
water, and allowed to stand for several hours. Drain 
and press out all thb water. Cover, with boiling water, 
and let it simmer for about ten minutes; drain again, 
and dress with a cup of cream sauce. Just before, serv- 
ing stir in the yolks of two eggs and one-fourth of a 
cup of cream. Serve with plain boiled potatoes, or 
baked.' 

Codfish Balls. 

2 cups picfced-up codfish. 1 egg. 
4 cups potatoes (round). 1 tablespoon butter. 
A little white pepper. 

Wash the fish well in cold water, and pick it up into 
very small pieces, or, what is better, cut fine with scis- 



66 SCBBNTIPIO COOKING. 

sors. Wash potatoes, pare them and cut into pieces 
about as large as walnuts before measuring. Place the 
potatoes in saucepan with boiling water to cover, and 
put the picked fish on top of potatoes, and boil rapidly 
until the potato is soft enough to mash. Drain and 
dry the potato on the fire. Shake off 'the pieces of 
fish, and put the potato through the ricer, if you have 
not mashed with a potato masher, until there are no 
lumps in them. Then beat the fish and potatoes well 
together, and add the egg and butter and beat again. 
Take up by spoonfuls and fry in deep fat in frying- 
basket,, putting in only a few at a time. Drain on brown 
paper and keep in a pile on hot dish, and serve with 
mustard or horseradish. 

Fish Chops. 

1 can of salmon or that 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

amount of cold fish. '% teaspoon paprika. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons butter. 

3 tablespoons' flour. 

Pick up the fish and free it from skin and bones, 
making it very fine with a fork. Sprinkle with the 
lemon juice and add papj-ika and a dash of white pep- 
per. Make the 'cup of white sauce with the butter, 
flour and milk, salt and pepper to taste, and a dash 
of minced parsley. As soon as the sauce is done stir 
into it minced fish. Mix thoroughly and spread on pan 
to cool. When thoroughly cold, shape into ' chops, 
crumb and egg and fry in deep fat. 

Fish k la Creme. 

2 cups cold flaked fish^ % bay leaf. 

2 cups butter., 1 small onion. 

2 tablespoons llour. Sprig parsley. 

1 cup milk. % cup cracker crumbs. 



PREPARATION AND CAKE OF FISH. 67 

Make white sauee with the butter, flour and milk, 
in which the bay leaf, parsley and onion have been 
steeped in double boiler for at least ten minutes, when 
you remove the seasoning and use the milk for the 
sauce. Butter a small bake-dish and put in a layer of 
fish, and pour over it half of your sauce, then another 
layer of the fish and the remaining sauce on the top, 
and cover the whole with' the cracker crumbs buttered.' 
This majies a nice fish course served on individual 
dishes, or ramiquins. 

Curry of Fish. 

Make a sauce with two tablespoons of butter, two 
of flour, one cup of white stock or milk, a teaspoon bf 
grated onion, two cups of any kind of cold flaked fish, 
one tablespoon of curry powder. Mix the curry pow- 
der with the flour. - 

Fried Smelts. 

The smelt is a small, delicious fish to fry, and makes 
a beautiful garnish when fried in rings for a large 
fish to be served for a dinner party. To prepare them 
you open the gill on the outside, and with the thumb 
and finger take hold of the inner gill and can easily 
pull out all the part that is not fit to be served. You 
will find they all come away together, and-the fish will 
retain its shape perfectly. Clean by running the water 
on them. Wipe dry. Dip them in milk and roll them' 
in flour, or, if they are large enough, crumb and, egg 
them and fry, in deep fat. Use care not to put too 
many in the frying-basket at a time. They want to 
be served very crisp, with Tartar or Mayonnaise sauce. 
The smelt, when perfectly fresh,' has very much the 
odor of a freshly cut cucumber. 



68 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Whitebait. 

"Whitebait is one of the small fishes which you clean 
carefully. Dry by rubbing them in a napkip. EoU 
them in flour, using care to get them thoroughly cov- 
ered, but shake them to get off all loose flour. Immerse 
them in deep fat, until they take on a' nice light brown 
color. They are so small they only take a little while 
to cook. Use care not to put too many in the frying- 
basket at a time. Drain them on a shallow pan lined 
with paper, and keep them hot and crisp in the oven. 

Pan Fish. 

These include the ba;ss, perch, porgies, butter-fish, 
etc., and are all prepared in the same way. Scale, 
wash, remove head, or not, as you like; but, if head 
is left on, take out the eyes. Split them in halves, or, 
if very small, cook whole. They want to be wiped dry 
,and rolled in flour or corn meal, and sprinkled with 
salt and pepper. They can be sauted in pork fat or 
lard, or half beef drippings and lard mixed, but the 
salt-pork fat is the best, as it imparts a nice flavor 
to the flsh, and a few pieces of the pork rolled in the 
corn meal and fried crisp is nice to eat with the fish. 



OYSTEKS AND SHELL-PISH. 69 



CHAPTER IX. 
OYSTERS AND SHELLFISH. 

OYSTERS are in season from September to 
May. They are sold in the shell by the 
barrel, peek and dozen, or, after removing from 
the shell, by the quart. When of medium size, 
there are about forty-five or fifty to the qu£)xt. 
The freshness of the oyster is of importance, and 
for this reason it is best tO' buy in the shell, for 
the reason that after the shell is rpmoved, preservatives 
are used by the 'fish dealers. The shells are on the 
right and left sides of the oyster, and are called the 
right and left valves. The one on which the oyster 
rests grows faster and is deeper, and is known as the 
left valve. The oyster valves are joined by a very elas- 
tic ligament which admits of the opening and closing 
of the shell, and when you go to an oyster bed you will 
hear the opening and closing of these shells as the 
oyster feeds. The oyster is attached to the ' shell by 
a tough muscle, which is sometimes removed, together 
with the outside of the gill, and when this is done they 
are said to' be bearded. The body of the oyster is made 
up largely of liver. Natul-al oyster beds are found in 
shallow water with stony bottoms along the entire At- 
lantic Coast. The oyster is five years old before it is 
ready for the table. I was told once by an old salt how 
many oysters the lady oyster would produce during 
the year ; at present I do not recall it, but, the number 



70 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

was marvelous. The Blue Points are considered the best 
to serve on the half-shell for the first course at a din- 
ner. They are so called from Blue Point, Long Island, 
from where they originally came. The Linhaven, a 
plump, finie-flavored oyster, is better to my notion than 
the Blue Point, and I see they are serving them a great 
deal and charge teii cents more on the half-dozen at 
all first-class cafes. Oysters from the Chesapeake Bay 
are ponsidei'ed very fine. 

Oyster farming has grown to be quite an industry 
at the present day. Oysters that are large and suitable 
for broiling are sold in the East by the quart, but as 
you go South they are sold by count. The New Orleans 
market furnishes the largest oyster T have ever seen 
served, but the flavor was not nearly so good. 

The oyster now is served all the year round, but 
during the summer months they are apt to be flabby 
and not so well flavored; but, if fresh, are perfectly 
healthy, and in Pittsburg during this last year I ate 
them for my first course at Fort Pitt Hotel in June, 
and found them fine. 

Opening the Oyster. 

Use a thin, flat knife made for the purpose; put 
it under the back end of the right valve, and push 
forward until it cuts the strong muscle that holds the 
shells together. As soon as this is done, the right valve 
can be lifted and separated from the left, and in serving 
them on the half -shell they are always left on the left 
valve. 

To Clean the Oysters. 

Place them in a strainer over a bowl. Pour over, 
them cold water — ^half cup of water to a quart of oys- 



A'B GAS RANGES S:.!/^ 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-PISH. 71 

ters. Carefully lift each oyster separately to see there 
are no pieces of shell remaining on the tough muscle. 
Reserve the oyster liquor in the bowl to be used for 
any purpose necessary. 

Scallops. 

The scallops belong to the bivalve family, and are 
found in Long Island Sound and Narragansett Bay. 
The edible portion of the scallop is the central muscle, 
and is the only part served in the market. They are 
found in the market from October until April. 

Clams. 

The clam is found just below the, surface of the 
sand, and mud above low-water mark, and are dug with 
shovel or rake. There are two kinds of clams — ^hard 
and' soft-shell. The soft-shell is considered a great deli- 
cacy by a connoisseur. The hard-shell clams are found 
along the coast from New York to Florida. The small 
ones are called little neck clams^ and are served same as 
Blue Points as a first course at dinner. 

Lobster. 

The lobster comes next in line, and is considered the 
highest order of the crustaceans. The largest are found 
in the Atlantic from Maine to New Jersey, but they 
are very abundant on the Massachusetts coast. The 
largest I ever saw was in the Washington Market, New 
York, and it weighed twenty-five pounds. The meat 
of a lobster of this size would not be good. The best 
weight is about two pounds. The na.tural color of the 
lobster is a dark bMish green, but when they are 
cooked they change to a beautiful red. Lobsters are 
caught in traps and pots by the lobster fishers, who 



72 SCIENTIFIO COOKING. 

ship them alive to the market. The lobster starts dur- 
ing the month of March to leave the deep water, where 
he spends his winters, and makes his way to the coast. 
The lobster is usually boiled when he , is taken from 
the trap, excepting those that are put into cold storage 
to be shipped to markets of distant cities, where they 
require them to be delivered to them alive. The fresh- 
ness of the lobster is to be carefully considered, as 
they are coarse feeders and are easy to be infected with 
ptomain. 

To Determine the Freshness of the Lobster. 

Choose one heavy in proportion to the size. The 
smell wants to be fresh and the tail wants to spring 
back to place quickly if jt has been freshly boiled. 

To Boil a Lobster. 

Have in your kettle enough boiling water to cover 
the lobster well, and add a tablespoonful of salt to the 
water. Take the lobster by the back and plunge him 
in head first as quickly as it is possible. Boil fast for 
three or four minutes, then simmer for thirty minutes. 

Opening^ the Lobster. 

Pull off the two large claws and the four pairs of 
small ones. Separate the tail and body by bending 
them back in the hands, and with a pair of scissors, 
,kept in the kitchen for such uses, cut the inside of 
tail shell and bend it back slightly, when you can pull 
out the tail meat in a single piece. Turn and use care 
to remove the intestine, that you will find runs the 
entire length. This vein is always visible, but will vary 
in color, being white, red and black. In the body is 
found "the lady," or stomach, which you leave. If 



OYg^BS AND SHELL-FISH. 73 

there is any coral, reserve it for decorating purposes. 
Pull out the woolly gills found in the body, and take 
out any bits of meat found between them. Disjoint 
the >rge claws, , cut the shell (if not too hard) and 
remove the meat as whole as possible. Take the meat 
from the small claws with a skewer, being careful not 
to break them. Wash them and reserve them for decoT 
tion. They make a beautiful garnish with parsley or 
curled celery. 

Crabs. 

There is quite a variety of crabs. The blue crab 
is the one we serve as food. They are found on the 
Atlantic and Gulf coasts. In the South they use a 
great many crabs. I saw quantities of them in the 
New Orleans market. The sift-shell crab is considered 
a great delicacy. The oyster crabs found inside the 
shells of oysters are usually so few in number that they 
are only u^ed as a garnish. 

Deviled Crabs. 

Boil the crabs, take out the meat and chop it fine. 
Add half as much bread crumbs as you have crab meat. 
Moisten with cream or cream sauce; season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, mustard and lemon jioiiee. Clean 
shells and fill them with the mixture.- Cover top with 
buttered cracker crumbs, and b];'0wn them in a quick 
oven. "Deviled" means, highly seasoned. . 

Pried Soft-shell Crabs. 

Remove the sand-bag, wash and dry them. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, roll them in crumbs, then dip in 
egg and again the crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 



74 SCIENTIFIO COOKING. 

Escalloped Crabs. 

Use tlie meat of boiled crabs chopped fine. To two 
cups of crab meat add the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs and one cup of cream sauce. Season with salt and 
lemon juice. Clean shell, refill them, cover top with 
buttered crumbs, and brown in quick oven. 

Shrimp. 

The best shrimp we find in our market comes from 
the South, and measures from an inch and a half to 
two inches long, and I have seen them in the Southern 
market three inches' long. They are a grayish color 
until boiled, when they turn a beautiful pink. They 
are in season from May to October. To 'prepare for 
use, take off the shell, and with a sharp-pointed knife 
remove, the intestinal Vein. Shrimps are used for sal- 
ads and sauces. 

Shrimp in Tomato Cases. 

Take small, peeled tomatoes and take out inside, 
being careful to remove all the seeds. Sprinkle with 
salt. Prepare the shrimp by seasoning with salt,' pep- 
per, butter and cayenne. Fill the tomato cups, and 
place in casserole, and put in oven until tomatoes are 
done. Serve from casserole. 

Curried Shrimp. 

For one pint of shrimp, use two tablespoons of but- 
ter, half teaspoon curry powder, two level tablespoons 
of flour, one cup of milk or thin cream, one sour apple 
chopped very fine, "one teaspoon minced onion. Put 
all the onion, curry powder and 'flour in butter, and 
cook slowly untiV apple and onion are tender, then add 
milk or cream. Cook for a few moments and add the 
shrimp whole. 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. . 75 

Frogs and Terrapin. 

The frog and terrapin belong to the reptile family. 
They are considered table delicacies by the epicure and 
high liver, but by many are not looked upon with 
favor. Only the hind legs of the frog are eaten. 

The terrapin is a specialty of Philadelphia, Balti- 
more and Washington. Terrapins are found in both 
fresh, and salt vi^ater. The diamond-back salt-water 
terrapin from Chesapeake Bay is considered the best. 
Texas and Florida send some very nice terrapins to the 
Eastern markets. Terrapin is best from January to 
March. They want to be cooked alive always. 

To Dress the Terrapin. 

Cut off head, and bleed thoroughly. Soak in cold 
water one hour. Boil ten or "fifteen minutes. Plunge 
into tJold water, and with coarse cloth rub off all the 
black skin. When cleaned, place again in boiling water 
and cook until the shell loosens. Will take from one and 
a half to two hours, according to age of terrapin. When> 
done, plunge again into cold water, and remove the 
under shell, gall-sack, liver and sand-tjag, using great 
care not to break the gall-sack. Save the juices that run 
from the meat, by opening over a bowl for that pur- 
pose. The eggs and meat are then ready for use. 

Terrapin Stew. 

This is the favorite way of serving, and the best 
method is the chafing-dish. Make a sauce with one- 
fourth cup butter, i two tablespoons flour and one and 
a half cups hot water ov stock, as convenient. Pound 
the eggs to a paste, and add to sauce. Have pint of 
terrapin meat cut very fine, and add to sauce with 



76 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

lemon juice if liked. Serve on rounds of toast or 
toasted crackers. 

Oysters on the Shell, 

Open the oyster as direpted, allowing it to rest on 
the left or deep shell. Arrange on a bed of finely 
broken ice. Five or six, according to the size of your 
plate, is a service for the beginning of the dinner. Pass 
with them quarter of a lemon, salt, pepper and tabasco, 
and, if desired, horseradish. Brown bread sandwiches. 

Oyster Cock-tail. 

5 or 10 oysters. 2 drops tabasco. 

% teaspoon grated % teaspoon Worcestershire, 

horseradish. 1 tablespoon tomato catsup. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

. Have the oyster thoroughly cooled. Mix all the 
seasonings and drop the oysters in. A cocktail glass 
is the prettiest to serve in. 

Cocktail of Little Neck Clams. 

6 clams to a service. 2 tablespoons mushroom 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. catsup. 

Few drops of tabasco. Salt to taste. 

Pour 1 to 11^ tablespoons on each service. 

Oyster §tew. 

1 quart cleaned oysters. % cup butter. 

1 quart milk, scalded. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Turn the oysters on strainer, pour half cup cold 
water on therh, examine and remove all bits of shell. 
Heat the oyster liquor to the boiling-point, and skim 
or strain through a fine sieve to catch any pieces of 
shell, Put the oyster in the liquor and ' return to 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. 77 

the fire, and heat quickly until the edge of the 
oyster curls. Add oysters and liquor to the scalding 
milk with the butter, salt and pepper, and serve at once 
very hot. 

Oyster en Cream. 

1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1% cups milk. 
%. cup cream. Salt and pepper. ' 

Make a thin cream sauce with the milk, butter and 
flour, and season to taste with salt, and pepper; Clean 
and plump the oysters in their own liquor. Drain and 
add to the cream sauce, and add the half cup thick 
cream, and heat, but do not boil. Serine in patty-shells, 
timbale cases or in vol-au-vefits. You caa add a half 
cup of sliced mushrooms to the creamed oysters if you 
like. ' ■ 

Roasted Oysters. 

Buy oysters in the shell for roasting. Thoroughly 
clean tbdm by scrubbing with a small, stiff brush. Place 
them in a dripping-pan, and place them in hot oven 
until the shell parts. Serve on the deep halves of the 
shell, season with salt and pepper, and send some 
melted butter in small dish to table with them. 

Fancy Roast. 

One pint of large oysters drained from their liquor 
by turning them onto strainer. Pour over oncrhalf cup 
water, and see that there are no bits of shells on them. 
Put into stewpan, and shake over fire that they do not 
stick to the pan, until the edges curl. Season with salt, 
pepper and butter, and turn over nicely browned toast, 
and serve at onCe, 



78 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Broiled Oysters. 

1 pint selected oysters. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 
% cup cracker crumbs, seasoned. 

Clean oysters and free from moisture. With fork 
lift by tough muscle and dip i^to the melted butter, 
then into the seasoned cracker crumbs. Place on but- 
tered broiler and broil with hot fire until the edges 
eurl, turning them while 'they broil. Serve very hot. 

Oysters in Brown Sauce. 

1 pint oysters. 1 cup oyster liquor. 

2 tablespoons butter ^, teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. Dash white pepper. 

% cup milk. Vs teaspoon paprika. 

Parboil and drain oysters. Strain and reserve the 
liquor. Brown the flour in the butter until well browned, 
but do not burn. Add the milk and oyster liquor and 
seasonings. Serve in patty-shell or fill vol-au-vent. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

1 pint oysters. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1% cups cracker crumbs. % cup cream or milk. 

■^ cup oyster liquor. Salt and pepper to season. 

Melt butter and stir onto the crumbs. Put a very 
thin layer in bottom of" pan that has been well but- 
tered. Put in layer of oyster, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, add about one tablespoon oyster liquor and 
half the cream. Sprinkle with the crumbs, and repeat 
with the oyster, and have the last layer the buttered 
crumbs. Bake for twenty-five or thirty minutes in 
hot oven. Never have more than two layers of oysters 
in your pan if you wish them to cook uniformly. Scal- 
loped ousters are not looked upon with favor by the 
scientists and doctors, as they do not consider them 
easy to digest. 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. 79 

Oyster Sauted. 

Clean one pint of oysters. Drain well, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dip into cracker crumbs. Put into 
hot frying-pan two tablespoons butter or same amount 
of good olive oil. Brown on one side, turn and brown 
on the other. 

Oysters in Bacon Blanket. 

Use one pint of large oysters that have been cleaned 
in the usual way. Wrap a very thin slice of baeon 
round each oyster, and fasten with small wooden 
skewer. Place on broiler or in hot pan in the oven, 
and cook until the bacon is brown and crisp. Turn 
during the cooking. _ 

Fried Oysters. 

Clean and dry large, select oysters. Roll in cracker 
crumbs, then in egg to which two 'tablespoons of 
water have been added. The egg should be slightly 
beaten. Use care to cover oysters entirely with the 
egg, then put it back into the cracker crumbs, and 
when thoroughly covered place on paper or platter 
until ready to fry. The seasoning can be sprinkled on 
the oysters or put into the crumbs and thoroughly 
stirred through. The latter way is preferable. Fry in 
-deep fat, heated to the blue smoke, and drain on brown 
paper, and serve on folded napkin. Garnish with pars- 
ley and lemon cut into slices the long way. 

Oysters Fried in Batter. 

1 cup flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

% cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

A little white pepper. 

Clean oysters, dip into the batter, fry in deep fat, 
drain and serve. 



A-B GAS RANGES ^—peg"" 

80 SCIENTIPIC COOKING. 

Oysters and Celery. 

2 cups celery cut in 1 pint oysters. 
%-inch lengths. % cup butter. 

3 cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Gook the celery in the water until tender, and idrain. 
Have the oysters cleaned and strain the 'liquor. Add 
the oysters and heat quickly to the - boiling-point, and 
^ skim out the oysters. Make a sauce by heating the 
butter until it is frothy, then add' the flour and' salt 
and pepper. Stir until it is frothy, then add half cup 
oyster liquor and half cup water from the celery. Stir 
until it boils up, then add the stewed celery aild the 
oysters. Put the mixture into ramequin dishes and , 
cover with buttered crumbs. Set into hot oven until 
crumbs are browned, and serve at once. 

Philadelphia Relish to Serve with Oysters. 

2 cups shredded cabbage. 3 sticks tender celery, 

1 green pepper, chopped chopped very fine. 

very fine. 14 teaspoon mustai'd seed. 

1 red pepper, chopped very % cup brown sugar. 

fine. Yi cup tarragon vinegar. 

Mix all the above ingredients thoroughly together 
and serve. This is fine with fried oysters. 

Cabbage cold slaw served in cabbage-head, ■with 
fried oysters at (the base. 

Cabbage Slaw. 

1/2 cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon mustard. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugan % teaspoon white pepper. 
2 tablespoons butter. Cup whipped cream. 

Yolks 4 eggs. 

Select a large, flat, well-shaped head of cabbage; 
pcoop , out the center to form a, cup. Shred enough 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. 81 

of the cabbage that has been removed to fill the cup, 
and dress it with above dressing. 

The Dressing. 

Heat the vinegar to the scald. Mix the flour, sugar, 
yolks of four eggs, mustard, salt and pepper together; 
pour the hot vinegar over it, and return to the saucepan 
and cook for three or four minutes. Cool and add the 
whipped cream just as you go to serve. Fill the cabbage 
cup '(or shell) ; place it in the center of a large platter 
covered with parsley. Lay the oysters round thfe cab- 
bage cup, and serve as a course.. 

Little Neck Clams. 

Little neck clams are served on the half-shell for the 
first course at dinner, same as the oyster. 

Roasted Clams. 

Roasted clams are served at clam-bakes. Wash 
them, and place them on stones that have been previ- 
ously heated for the purpose by burning wood on them. 
Ashes are removed, and thin layers of seaweed placed 
on, them. Clams are placed on the stones and covered 
with seaweed, and a piece of heavy canvas thrown over 
them to retain the steam. 

Steamed Clams. 

Clams for steaming are always bought alive and in 
thp shells. Scrub them thoroughly with a brush, chang- 
ing the water several times. They are then placed in 
a large kettle and one-half cup water for four quarts 
of clams. Cover closely and steam until the shells be- 
gin to open, using care that they are not overdone. 
Serve with individual dishes ,of melted butter and a 
quarter of a lemon. 



82 SCIENTIPIO COOKING. 

Fried Clams. 

Cl^an, dry and dip in batter, and fry in deep fat, 
and drain on raanilla paper. 

Batter. 

1 cup flour. Vj teaspoon salt. 
% cup milk. 1 egg, well beaten. 

A little cayenne pepper. 

Pried Scallops. 

Place one quart of- cleaned scallops in saucepan. 
Cook until they begin to shrivel. Drain, season with 
salt and pepper, roll in crumbs, dip in egg and again 
in crumbs, fry in deep fat, drain, and serve hot. They 
will fry in about one, and one-half minutes. 

Plain Lobster. 

Remove the meat from the shell. Arrange on a 
pretty platter, and garnish with small claws. 

lobster Cocktail. 

Remove meat from lobster and cut in pieces, allow- 
ing about one-half cup to each service. Season each ser- 
vice with two tablespoons each of tomato catsup and 
sherry wine, a little lemon juice, three or four drops 
of tabasco sauce, and salt to taste. Serve in cocktail 
glasses, after chilling. 

Deviled Lobster. 

2 pounds lobster. % teaspoon salt. 
1 cup white sauce. Dash of cayenne. 

% teaspoon mustard. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Make white sauce with one tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon flour, one cup milk. Remove from fire and 



OYSTERS AND SHELb-FISH. 83 

add mustard, salt, cayenne and lemon juice, all mixed 
together with the lobster meat, which should be cut 
into ciTbes. 

Scalloped Lobster. 

2 pounds lobster. , Few grains cayenne. 

1% cups white sauce. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Yolk 1 hard-lDolled egg. % tablespoon lemon juice. 

Make white sauce same as for deviled lobster. Add 
the lobster meat, cut into cubes, with the seasoning to 
the sauce. You can refill the lobster shell, or use but- 
tered scallop-shell. Cover top with, buttered crumbs, 
and bake until crumbs are brown. Brush the lobster 
-shell with olive oil to preserve the color. 

Curried Lobster. 

The curry is prepared same as scalloped lobster, 
with the addition of one teaspoonful of curry powder 
mixed well with the flour when you are making the 
white sauce. 

Lobster Farci. 

1 cup lobster meat. V2 cup buttered crumbs. 

Yolks 2 bard-boUed eggs.~ Salt to taste. 
1 cup white sauce. % teaspoon white pepper. 

1 tablespoon mmced parsley. 

Rub yolks of eggs very fine, and add to lobster'meat, 
■ with the parsley, sauce and seasoiiings. Mix all thor- 
oughly. Refill shell, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake until brown. 

Broiled Live Lobster. 

, Have your lobster dressed for the broiler jn the 
market, and be sure it is alive, and that the intestinal 
vein is removed and the stomach, and have the claws 
cracked. Place on a buttered broiler. Broil seven or 



84 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

eight minutes on flesh side, tiirn and broil six minutes 
on shell side. Serve with melted butter, or, if pre- 
ferred, a little tomato catsup and "Worcestershire, with 
Graham, rye or brown bread. 

Baked Live Lobster. 

Prepare same as for broiled lobster. Cook liver with 
a little butter, and season with salt, Worcestershire 
sauce and cayenne, and spread over top of lobster, and 
bake in hot oven for about eighteen minutes. Serve 
at once. 

Lobster Newburg. 

2 pounds lobster. 2 tablespoons sherry. 

1 cup cream sauce. 2 tablespoons brandy. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Make a white sauce with two ;tablespoons (level) of 
butter, two tablespoons flour, one cup thin cream, and 
add to this the lobster meat cut in cubes. "When well 
heated, add sheri'y and brandy. This should be served 
from chafing-dish. 

Lobster k I'Aniericaine. 

Split and prepare same as for broiled lobster. Place 
'in frying-pan, and sprinkle with small onion fihely 
chopped, and cooJc for a few moments. Add to your 
pan one cup of gooa tomato sauce, cover, and cook in 
oven for a few moments until all is well heated ; it will 
take about eight or ten minutes. Just as you take it 
up add one-quarter cup of sherry wine and tablespoon- 
ful of meltied butter. Remove lobster to platter and 
strain sauce over it. Garnish with small claws and 
serve very hot,' 



OYSTERS AND SHELL-FISH. 85 

Lobster and Mushrooms. 

2 pounds lobster. 14 cup sherry wine. 

% pound mushrooms. Salt to taste. 

1 cup white sauce. % teaspoon paprika. 

Cook the mushrooms broken in pieces in tablespoon 
of butter for about five minutes, then add the cream 
sauce, then the lobster meat, cut in small pieces, and 
■when thoroughly hot add the wine. , Remove to serving- 
dish and decorate with parsley, toast or puif paste, if 
you should have any left over. Each person has his 
own individual ideas of decoration, but in any case 
use the small claws with, what you like or have at hand. 

Lobster Patties. 

Lobster patties are very nice made same as creamed 
lobster, with addition of a half cup of white meat of 
chicken and a half cup of minced oysters that have been 
plumped in their own liquor. ' 

Lobster Canapes. 

For this use the meat from one medium-sized lob- 
ster, cut into fine pieces. Add to this the tomally fat 
(which is the green fat or liver of the lobster) ; add 
to this two tablespoons of olive oil and three-fourths 
of a tablespoon of lemon juice, to moisten it well. Cut 
thin slices of bread into any shape desired, and fry 
them, a delicate brown in butter. Spread with canape 
mixture, and garnish with parsley and thin slices of 
lenion. Serve at the beginning of the meal as an ap- 
petizer. 



86 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER X. 
BEEF. 

BEEP ranks first in meats, and is considered the 
most nutritious, and is the most largely consumed 
of the different meats. In meat we find chiefly : Fibrin, 
albumen, fat, gelatine, mineral matter and water. 

The fibrin is the substance that causes the blood to 
coagulate when shed. Fibrin is insoluble in both hot 
and cold water. 

Albumen is found in the blood and muscle. It is 
soluble in cold water, and coagulates in hot water or 
by heat. Coagulation begins at 134° F. H., and becomes 
a isolid at 160^ F. H. This shows that we should cook 
to get the juices out at a low degree of heat, and that 
when we broil our steak, to have a high temperature, 
to sear the surface quickly. 

Gelatine is a tasteless, transparent substance ob- 
tained by boiling, in water, muscles, skin, bone, tendon, 
eartilege, ligament or membrane of animals. By the 
boiling we dissolve the tissue and convert it into gela^ 
tine. Gelatine is a nitrogenous substance, hut a large 
quantity passes out of the system unchanged. 

Fat is found distributed in layers directly under 
the skin, in the bone and intermingled throughoiit the 
flesh. Fat as a food is a great heat-giver and force- 
producer. The human body is compared to a lamp, an& 
the fat is what supplies the lamp in a great measure 
and keeps it burning. 

Mineral matter is found in the bone, and it consists 
of calcium phosphate and sodium chloride (the latter 



BEEP. 87 

being common salt), and is found in the blood and 
thrbughout the tissues. 

Water makes up a large per cent, of the weight of 
the animal. 

The beef is divided by splitting the animal through 
the center of the backbone, and each part is called a side 
of beef. Four hundred pounds is a good weight for 
a side of beef. 

The tenderest and most expensive cuts come from 
the part of the animal where the muscles are -but little 
used. There you will find the meat much finer grained, 
but the tbugher pieces will have more .jttiee and much 
higher flavor in most instances. The expensive tender 
cuts of the meat can be broiled and roasted, while the 
tougher cuts must be cooked very slowly, by boiling or 
in casserole. Cover closely and cook slowly at a low 
degree of heat. 

Divisions of Meat. 

, Meat is divided into fore and hind quarters. In the 
hind-quarter you find the flank, round, rump and loin^ 
In the fore-quarter are five prime ribs, five chuck ribs, 
neck, sticking-piece, rattle rand, brisket and fore-shin. 
Other parts of the creature used for food are the brains, 
tongue, heart, liver, kidneys, tail, suet and tripe. 

Different Temperatures to Cook tiie Meat in. 

For soup, put -into cold water and bring slowly to 
the boiling-point, and keep. at a low degree of heat for 
about four or five hours. This brings out the juices, 
softens and dissolves the tissues, and gives the stock the 
jelly-like consistency when cold. For tough cuts of 
meat we put them into boiling water and close the pores 
quickly, then cook slowly until tender. 



88 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Best Cuts for Beefsteak. 

The porterhouse, sirloin, cross-cut of the rump, and 
second and third cuts from top of the round. Steaks 
must be cut thick if you want them to be tender — from 
one inch to two and a half inches. 

To Broil Steak. 

Scrape outside fat with knife, and, if you desire 
to do so, remove some of the fat. Wipe the meat with 
cheesecloth wrung out of cold water. With some of the 
fat grease the ribs of the broiler, which must be hot. 
Place the steak on broiler and place directly under the 
flame; as soon as one side is seared, turn and sear the 
other. Make at least four tilms during the broiling, 
to keep the juices in. An inch steak will taJie six or 
seven minutes to broil if lit ed pretty well done, or five 
minutes if liked rare. Remove to hot platter and sea^ 
son with butter, pepper and salt. 

Beefsteak with Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

Broiled steak, spread with maitre d 'hotel butter. 

Planked Beefsteak. 

"Broil for seven minutes a porterhouse steak mi «ne 
and a half inches thick. Butter a plank, and arrange 
a border of potatoes close to the edge with pastry-bag 
and rose tube. Remove the steak to the plank and 
place in oven until the steak is done and potatoes 
browned. Spread steak with butter, season with salt 
and pepper. Garnish with mushroom caps and small 
tomatoes or red peppers. The tomatoes should be sauted 
in butter, also the mushroom caps. The red peppers 
also make a nice garnish.. 



BEEP. 89 

Beefsteak with Oyster Blanket. 

Use beefsteak cine and a half inches thick. Broil 
fifteen to' eighteen minutes, and remove to pflatter. 
Spread with butter, and season with salt and pepper. 
Clean a pint of large oysters and cover steak with them. 
Dot them with butter, and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and slight shaking of paprika. Place on grate of 
hot oven, and cook 'until oysters are plump and edges 
curled. Send to table at once. Garnish with curled 
celery and parsley. 

Mignon Fillets with Sauce. 

Cut slices from the end of the fillet about three- 
ciuarters of an inch thick. Press and trim into circles ; 
dredge with salt and pepper, and saute in butler, Serve 
with Bearnaise sauce, resting ^ach fillet on a circle of 
toast. Serve with string beans in cream or Brussel 
sprouts. . 

Broiled Fillets of Beef. 

Cut slices from tenderloin of beef; wipe, shape and 
place on the well-greased broiler, and broil under the 
, gas flame for five or six minutes, according to the thick- 
ness of the fillets. Serve with brown mushroom sauce. 

Tenderloin Cutlets with Chestnuts. 

' Cook small fillets of beef in butter, and serve round 
a mound of chestnut puree. 

Sauted Fillets with Mushroom Caps. 

Prepare the same as the mignon fillets, and saute 
the mushroom caps in butter until they are well done, 
and place one on top of each fillet. Serve with a rich 
brown sauce, highly seasoned, and have the garnish of 
red and greejj sweet-peppers c'ut into ribbons. 



A-B GAS RANGES """' " '^"'^^ 



Styles and Sizes 



90 SCIEMiTIFIC COOKING. 



Chateaubriand Steak. 

Cut fillets from the center about one and a half 
inches thick. Flatten and shape with a cleaver, first 
removing , all skin and fat. Broilfor about eighteen or 
twenty minutes. Serve with maitre d 'hotel butter, or, 
if preferred, a brown sauce with a seasoning of lemon 
juice, parsley and pimentoes., Cut into rings. 

Hamburg Steak. 

One pound of lean, raw beef from round is best. 
Cut very fine, highly seasoned with salt, pepper and 
a little onion juice, and one egg slightly beaten. The 
best and most' wholesome way of cooking this is to 
make into an oblong shaped loaf, and brown in a 
heavy frying-pan on all sides, then add to the pan 
one tablespoonful of butter" and half a cup of water 
with which to baste the meat. Cover closely and cook' 
slowly, basting frequently. 

Doctors will not allow Hamburg steak served from 
diet kitchen, as the meat prepared this way is very 
solid and compact, and is hard to mix with the juices 
of the stomach, and gives the digestive organs of the 
sick^and convalescent too much to do. 

Roast Beef. 

Best cuts of beef for roasting are the first three 
fancy ribs, tip of sirloin, and back of rump. The lat- 
ter cut makes a desirable roast for a large family, and 
is very juicy and always gives plenty of dish gravy. 
Rib roast contains more fat than either of the others, 
and sells cheaper for this reason. 

To 'Roast Beef.— Wipe and put on rack in dripping- 
pan, skin side down. Place in hot oven and sear the 



BEEP. 91 

meat quickly, so as to keep the juices in. Place some 
of the heart suet on top of the meat to render out to 
do the basting with, and in case you have no suet, spread 
some lard over the top of the beef; never baste with 
water, as water-basted meat is not roasted, but steamed 
meat. Place one tablespoonful of salt in corner of 
roasting-pan, and dip it up over the roast as you baste. 
After the meat is well seared and pores closed by the 
heat of the oven, you lower your heat and baste every 
ten minutes. When half done, turn that the top may 
get well browned. I never use flour on meat I am 
roasting. Eib roast weighing six or seven pounds will 
require fifteen minutes to the pound. Rump roast 
weighing ten pounds will require one hour and fifty 
minutes rare, or two hours well done. A roast of beef, 
if properly cared for, will leave nothing in the roasting- 
pan but the fat> 

To niake the gravy, take roast from pan and pour 
off all the fat but about four tablespoons. Place pan 
on hot part of range, and put into fat four level table- 
spoons of flour and brown it nicely, but, use care that 
you do not bum it. Add slowly one and a half cups of 
boiling water. Cook five minutes, and season with salt 
and pepper. Strain, if there are lumps in it, and; put 
in gravyrboat and send to table. The best gravy for 
roast beef is on the dish after the carving. 

To Carve > A Eoast of BEEF.-^Have a very sharp 
knife, and always ,cut across the grain if you wish the 
meat to be tender. 

Yorkshire Timbales. 

2 cups milk. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. % teaspoon salt 

Place flour in mixing-bowl and make a well in the 



92 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

center ; put m the' salt and eggs, and add milk slowly ; 
beat the flour all in smooth and add remaining milk 
and beat thoroughly. Pour into well-greased mufSn- 
pans, cook for thirty-five or forty minutes, and baste 
with some of the fat from roast after they are well 
risen. Serve with the roast. The old Romans served 
this with their roast of beef under the name of "An- 
sonia cakes," which I found in Kurwen's "Ho^t and 
Guest." 

Lairded Fillet of Beef. 

The long fillet of beef is found Tinder the loin of the 
beef, and the short fillet under the rump. When the 
long fillet is removed there are no porterhouse steaksj 
and for this reason it is more expensive than the short. 
To prepare, you remove all fat, veins and tendons. 
Skewer into shape, and lard upper side with the grain 
of the meat. Place on rack in pan, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and dredge lightly with flour. Place 
a few pieces of salt pork from the larding in bottom 
of pan. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven, basting sev- 
eral times, llemove to hot platter, take out skewers, 
and garnish with parsley and small red radishes or 
watercress, with yolks of eggs sprinkled over them by 
pressing the egg through a potato ricer. 

Fillet of Beef with Vegetables. 

Sear your fillet on the top of range with two-thirds 
cup of butter in a frying-pan. When the butter is 
quite hot, put in the fillet and turn frequently until 
every side is nicely browned, then turn occasionally 
until done, which will require about thirty minutes. 
Remove to a hot sei-ving-dish and garnish with a cupful 
each of cooked peas, carrots and sweet-peppers (red 



BEEF. Da 

and grie'en) ; cut into fancy shapes, well seasoned, and 
serve with — 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. — ^Use one-third cup of the' 
fat from' the pan in which- the meat was cobked, and- 
brown four level tablespoons of flour' in. it^ Add one 
cup brown soup stock, one-third eup' of liquor frtfm' 
the mushrooms, one cup of the caps c"ut into' slicfes, and 
sauted in butter about five minutes. Turn mushrooms' 
in sauce and serve in gravy-boat with the fillet. 

Pot Roast of Beef. 

Five or six p^ounds from the round of beef. Place 
some pieces of suet in bottom' of deep pot, and try out 
the fat. "Wipe off the beef and brown the roast on 
all sides. When nicely browned add three cups of hot 
water and place on stove where it will cook slowly. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover closely, and cook 
for two and a half or three hours. Good warm or cold. 

Pressed Flank of Beef. 

Get any amount you may desire; wipe and cut off 
any superfluous fat. Place in kettle and cover with 
boiling water. Add salt, pepper, small piece of bay 
leaf not larger than the thumb nail, and any bones you 
may have on hand from steak or roast of beef. Cook 
untiL thp meat is in shreds. See to it you- have but 
little liquor in the kettle when meat is done. Arrange 
meat in shallow dish and pour the liquor over it. .Cover 
and press with weight on top of plate. Serve cold, cut 
very thin. This is very nice served for luncheon with- 
a salad of left-over vegetables dressed with French 
dressing and Graham bread sandwiches. 



94 SCIENTIFIO COOKING. 

Corned Beef. 

The best cut of corned beef is the fancy brisket. 
It costs more than the rattle rand, and is known by 
the selvage on the lower side and the absence of bone. 
The upper end of the brisket has the most lean meat. 

To Boil Corned Beef. 

Wash and tie into shape. Put in kettle and cover 
with cold water. Bring slowly to boiling-point. Skini 
and cook very slowly until tender. If the boiling is 
done too rapidly, the meat will cut stringy. Let it 
partly cool in the water in which it was cooked. ~ 

Braised Beef Tongue. 

Put a fresh tongue into boiling water, and cook very 
slowly for two hours^ Take from the water and re- 
move skin and roots. Shape and place in casserole, and 
surround with celery, onions, carrots and turnips — 
about half a cup of each. Pour over all about three or 
four cups of brown sauce. 

Sauce foe Tongue. — Brown two tablespoons of flour 
in two tablespoons- of butter until well browned. Add 
gradually three cups of water in which the tongue was 
cooked. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
pour one cup strained tomato over all. Cover closely, 
and place casserole in oven or on top of range where it 
will cook very slowly for two hours. Serve from casse- 
role, serving each person with some of each vegetable 
with the sauce. 

Stuffed Beef Heart. 

Use heart from young bullock so it will be tender, 
and clean well. Stuff -ys^ith bread crumbs, seasoned with 
celery, parsley, onion, salt, pepper and one green pep- 



BEEIP. 95 

per cut into ribbons. Cook tke onion, celery and pep- 
per in two tablespoons of butter until tender; add them 
to the bread crumbs and moisten all with milk, or an 
egg if preferred. Open the heart on one side and add 
the dressing; tie or sew to shape. Place a plate in 
saucepan, rest the heart on it, cover with boiling water, 
and cook until the heart is tender. When done, place 
in drijiping-pan, and pour over it the juice in which 
it was cooked, and place in the oven to brown. Make 
sauce in pan and serve. 

Boiled Tongue. 

You cook a corned or smoked tongue same as corn 
beef. The smoked tongue wants to be well washed, 
and soaked overnight in cold water. Let tongues cool 
slightly so you can handle them, when you remove the 
skin and roots. Skewer into shape, if you wish to put 
them in aspic, a very pretty way to serve them. 

Dried Beef Relish. 

Use dried beef cut very thin and pulled into shreds. 
Put into a sjaucepan in a little hot water and simmfer on 
stove a few moments. Pour water off, and dry beef 
over fire. Add butter and sprinkle lightly with flour. 
Stir as it browns, and when all is well browned pour 
on three-quarters cup of milk, and let it cook up and 
remove to serving-dish. Scrambkd eggs are nice served 
with this, piling the meat in the center and using the 
eggs for a border with parsley for a garnish. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Have butcher cut liver about one-third of an inch 
thick. Kemove the thin outside skin and veins. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, "and ,dredge with flour. 



96 SCIENTIFIC COOklNGT. 

Fry the bacon in frying-pan, and lift on point of fort 
to let fat drip off. Drain on hot platter lined with 
brown paper, and keep hot while you fry the liver in 
the hot bacon fat. Fiy brown on both sides, but use 
care that the liver is not overdone or hard. Serve on 
hot platter, with the bacon laid round, serving eaCh 
help with some of the bacon. 

Broiled Liver. 

Prepare same as for fried liver, and have your 
broiler well greased and turn often. Cook about five 
or six minutes. Remove to hot platter, spread with 
butter, and season with salt and pepper. 

Braised Liver. 

Trim liver in shape, and skewer. Place in deep pan 
and place some pieces of salt pork on top, or make 
lardoons from the pork and lard top. Put pork trim- 
ming in pan round the liver, also a minced onion and 
little celery cut very fine, a few peppercorns and two 
cups of brown stock or water. Cover closely and bake 
slowly for one and three-quarter hours; uncover and 
brown one-half hour longer. Remove liver, strain the 
liquor and make a brown gravy with it by using two 
tablespoons of butter and two of flour. Melt butter, add,, 
the flour and pour on the liquor. Serve round, the liver. 

Fried Tripe in Batter. 

Make a batter with three-fourths cup flour, one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, one-half cup milk, one egg well 
beaten, one teaspoon vinegar, one teaspoon melted but- 
ter. 

"Wipe tripe, sprinkle T^ith salt and pepper, dip in 
batter and fry in hot fat; drain and serve. The tripe 



BEEF. 97 

must be boiled until very tender before using in any 
way. 

Broiled Tripe. 

Honeycomb tripe is best for broiling; Wipe tripe 
dry, and dip in fine-sifted cracker crumbs. Dip in 
melted butter, and again in the crumbs. Place on well- 
greased broiler, and broil for four or five minutes. 
Expose the smooth side to the fire firsf for two or 
three minutes, then turn honeycomb side. Remove to 
hot platter; butter, salt and pepper, and serve quickly. 

Tripe in Cream Sauce. 

Make cream sauce with two tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one cup milk and one good-sized onion 
minced fine. Cook onion in butter. Add flour as soon 
as it becomes frothy, pour, on the milk, then add the 
tripe that is tender, and cut into small pieces about one 
and a half inches long by one inch wide. Cook for five 
minutes until all is very hot, turn into dish for, serving, 
and sprinkle with minced parsley. 

Creole Tripe. 

Creole tripe is made same as the creamed tripe, using 
strained tomatoes instead of the milk for the sauce, 
and one finely cut sweet-pepper cooked in the butter 
with the onion. Also one-third cup of mushrooms m^kes 
a nice addition to the different flavors. 

Ways of Warming Over Beef. 

Trim what is left from roast of beef and put some 
pieces of , pork over top. Reheat quickly hx oven, and 
reheat the gravy left from the day before and serve 
with it. Of course, this is not so good as the first day, 
and many prefer it served cold. 



98 SpiENTIPIC COOKING. 

Roast Beef with Spanish Sauce. 

Make sauce with two tablespoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, two red sweet-peppers, and one onion, all 
cut fine. Cook opion and peppers in butter, add flour, 
then one and a half cups of tomatoes (without being 
strained), one tablespoon sugar, salt arid pepper. Cook 
all for about five minutes, then add the beef cut very 
thin. Let it get hot and serve at once. 

Corn-beef flash. 

Use cooked cold beef, and remove skin and gristle, 
and, if too fat, part of the fat. Chop the meat, and add 
equal parts of cold boiled chopped potatoes. Season 
with salt and pepper and one tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Moisten with milk or cream, ti^rn into a 
hot buttered frying-pan and place on the stove where 
it will brown slowly. Fold same as omelet,'' and turn 
onto hot platter, <This is fine.) 



VEAL. 99 

CHAPTER XI. 

VEAL. 

GOOD veal is known by the flesh being a |)inkish 
color and the fat white. Veal is much legs nutri- 
tious than beef or mutton, and when taken from too 
young an animal is apt to be very unwholesome, and 
, will in many cases provoke stomach disturbances. Veal 
and lamb are not improved by long hanging, and want 
to be served soon after killing and dressing. - 

Veal is divided into fore and hind quarters. The 
fore-quarter is subdivided into neck, breast and 
shoulder; the hind-quarter into loin, leg and knuckle. 
Cutlets, fillets and cushion are cut from the thick part 
of leg. Veal is found in best condition during the 
spring, but is in the market all the year. Veal milst 
be thoroughly cooked and well seasoned, as the meat 
is deficient in flavor, but is much richer in gelatine. 
Its heat-producing qualities are small, and for this 
reason it wants to be served with rice, pot^atoes, jelly, 
etc., these supplying the elements lacking in the veal. 
Veal is sometimes kept until five or six weeks old, and , 
fed on milk and all the different vegetables until the 
fall, when it is killed and served same as beef, and is 
very nice. 

Roast Cushion of Veal. 

Use a piece from the thick part of the leg. Remove 
the bone, wipe the meat and fill with stuffing made 
same" as for chicken or ~ turkey. Sew or skewer into 
shape, place in dripping-pan on meat-rack, and place 



A-B ENAMEL Gas Ranges 



Ab Easy to Clean 
aa a China Plate 



100 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

over the top some bits of salt pork, and usie butter and 
water for the basting. Cook for three and a half hours, 
basting every fifteen minutes. Serve with a brown 
gravy made in the pan after the veal is removed. The 
gas wants to be ' kept lo-^ so the pan does not burn, 
and at the same time cooks the veal slowly so it will 
be more digestible. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Use the veal from the leg, and have the cuts about 
half an inch thick. Wipe and shape into nice pieces 
for serving; sprinkle with salt and pepper and roll in 
flour, egg and crumbs. Fry slowly until well browned, 
then remove the cutlets to saucepan on back of stove, 
and make a brown sauce in pan in which the cutlets 
were cooked by using two spoonfuls of flour and two 
cups boiling water. Salt and pepper to taste, strain 
over the cutjets in saucepan and cook slowly for thirty 
or forty minutes. The simmering burner on gas stove 
does the work fine. 

Scotch Veal Collops. 

Use two cutlets from the best part of the round; 
pound as thin as possible, and with scissors cut into 
round shape, having each coUop about the size of a small 
butter pat, putting a small wooden skewer into each 
one. Roll in flour, and season with salt and pepper, 
and brown in equal parts of Ijird and butter. Remove 
to saucepan in which you have placed the little bones 
and all small, stringy pieces unfit to form into collops, 
using care to stand the eoUop with skewer pointing up. 
Make sauce same as for the cutlets, and simmer for 
thirty minutes, or until tender. Serve round a potato 
wall^ with skewers all pointing up. Fill the center ol 



vbaij. 101 

the potatoes with asparagus tips, first lining the center 
of the wall with curled Fl-ench lettuce. If you prefer 
it, you can use peas instead of the asparagus. This is' 
a beautiful dish, and makes a company luncheon with 
the addition of a nice salad of any kind you like. 

Breaded Veal Chops. 

You can use loin or rib chop as you choose. "Wipe, 
season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, then in egg 
and into fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat until 
well browned on both sides. Place the chops on hot 
platter with Spanish rissotto in center of dish. A very 
pretty garnish is to -lay each chop in leaf of curled 
lettuce in, a circle on a chop-dish. Every house should 
be the possessor of a chop-dish, as they add much to 
the service. With the rissotto the chops will need no 
sauce.. , • 

Loin of Veal a la Jardiniere. 

Use four or five pounds of loin of veal. Wipe well 
and season with salt and pepper. Brown veal in one- 
third cup of butter in stewpa,n, turning to get all sides 
Well browned, being careful not to let it burn, which 
it will do very readily if care is not ufeed.,^ Add one 
and a half cups of hot water. Cook slowly until 'the 
meat is tender, adding water as it cooks away, but do 
not put m too much alonce; it will take about three' 
or three and a half cups in all. The state of the at- 
mosphere makes a great difference in the time iflie 
water will last in your stewpan. Eemove meat, thicken 
the stock in the pan with flour, and add what water 
you need for the sauce. Season well, and, surround the 
meat on platter with turnips^ carrots and peas, having 
the carrots .and turnips .cut into small dice, and coOked 



102 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

and seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, and about 
two tablespoons of rich cream; the peas with only salt 
and pepper. You can pile the vegetables in bunches 
and place parsley or cress between each bunch, or ar- 
range in borders, as the fancy of the person may sug- 
gest. 

Meat*Pie with Veal. 

Take two or three pounds of veal, lean meat prefer- 
able. Cut into small pieces and put on in boiling water. 
When the boiling-point is reached, skim carefully, and 
cook slowly imtil the meat is tender. It will take about 
one hour, and bear in mind that fast cooking wiU tend 
to harden the meat. At the end . of the hour season 
with salt and pepper, a teaspoon of grated onion, and 
one tablespoon of rice (that has been cooked). You 
will need about three cups of stock; if you have more 
in your saucepan, boil until you reduce it. Make a 
crust same as for baking-powder biscuit, except you 
add one tablespoon more shortening. EoU one-fourth 
inph thick, and line sides and ends of baking-pan. 
Turn into pan meat and gravy, and add one pint of 
cleaned oysters or one cup mushrooms. Put on top 
crust to fit pan, with an opening cut in the middle to 
let the steam pass off. Cook in hot oven until crust 
is nicely browned, and serve from pan in which it was 
cooked, putting a square of the browned crust on each 
service. This can be made without the oysters, but 
they are a great addition. 

Scalloped Veal. 

Use the veal left from the cushion of veal. Cut 
very thin into small pieces about one inch square, put 
a layer into a buttered baking-dish with a very thin 



VEAL. ' 103 

layer of coarse crumbs, then another, aver of meat, and 
so on until the dish is full. Over the top put a thin 
crust made of the crumbs wet with milk and one egg. 
Before piitting on the crust you moisten the meat with 
a well-seasoned broth, and if you have none, you can 
make some from the bones and bits of meat from which 
you ' have been cutting, and use any gravy left from 
the roast. A little strained tomato makes a nice addi- 
tion to the broth. You will want to bake this for 
about pne hour in slow oven. 

Veal Stew with Dropped Dumplings. 

Wipe two pounds of lean veal carefully and put into 
saucepan, and cook slowly, well covered, until meat iS 
very tender, using about one quart of boiling water. 
You will want to cook it about one and a half hours. 
An onion peeled and put in whole is a nice additioii. 
When the veal is tender thicken your stock about as 
thick as cream. Remove the veal and onion, and make 
drop dumplings with one cup of flour, one teaspoon of 
butter^ one and a half teaspoons baking-powder, one 
egg, one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspopn white 
pepper, and milk enough to make a stiff dough 
that will drop from the point of the spoon. Dip the 
spoon in the boiling gravy, and while hot take up a 
tablespoonful of the dough and drop into the boiling 
liquor. When all has been added, cover clpsely and 
cook for ten minutes. Place meat on serving-dish, and 
put the dumplings round with the sauce' from the sauce- 
pan. A border of cooked and well-seasoned carrots, 
that have been cut into shreds or diced as you prefer, 
is a nice garnish round the platter. If you serve the 
carrots, and have any of the nice green carrot tops, use 



104 , sciEisn^iPic COOKING. 

it as a green for the dish instead, of parsley. The car- 
rot top is a very pretty garnish. 

Veal Birds. 

Use slices of veal from the leg cut very thin. Re- 
move fat, bone and any skinny pieces. Pound well, 
and cut into pieces about three inches long and two 
inches wide, using each strip to make a bird. Chop the 
trimming from the veal very fine, with a piece of salt 
pork about one inch square. Add to the chopped meat 
and pork about one-half a measure of fine crumbs — 
either bread or cracker crumbs. Season with salt, pep- 
per, a little paprika, thyme, onion juice, and very little 
lemon juice. Moisten with egg, spread each piece of 
meat with the mixture, roll and fasten with skewers 
into shape. Place into buttered bake-pan, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, and place in 
hot oven. As soon as they are hot add water and bat- 
ter to keep from burning and cook slowly, basting 
every few moments until they are tender. Add one 
cup of cream to pan the last twenty minutes of the 
cooking, and baste thoroughly before taking from the 
oven. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds lean veal, freed from skin and mem- 
brane; chop fine or put through a meat-chopper. Add 
half pound salt pork chopped fine, six crackers (rolled), 
half cup thin cream, one and a half tablespoons lemon 
juice, one taiblefspoon salt, a little grated" onion or onion 
juice. Mix well and place in brick-shaped bread-pan. 
Brush top with white of egg, and baste with pork fat. 
It will take about two and a half hours to bake. Unless 



VBAL. 105 

the pan is quite large, the cooking wants to be done in 
slow oven, or the meat will become hard. 

Minced Veal on Toast. 

Remove the> skin and gristle from remnants of, cold 
roast veal, and chop the meat. Put into a well-buttered 
pan, and season with salt and pepper; add a little 
cream and flour. Stir and pour over small pieces of 
buttered toast. 

Creamed Veal. 

One pint of cold yeal cut into small cubes, one cup 
of white sauce made with one tabl^poon flour, one 
tablespoon butter and one , cup hot milk. Season with 
pepper and salt aiid a little onion juice. After sauce 
boils, put in the pieces of veal. Turn onto hot platter 
and edge with points of puff paste made from the pieces 
of paste left over from your pie or patty shells. ' 

Boiled Dinner. 

Three pounds lean veal wiped and put into kettle 
with plenty of boiling water • to cook meat and vege- 
tables. When the meat is half done, adU potatoes, car- 
rots, turnips,, onions and half head of cabbage, cut into 
three pieces lengthways so it will keep its shape. The 
onions, carrots and turnips will take longer to cook, 
and must be add^d before the cabbage and potatoes. 
Serve the meat on hot platter and surround with the 
vegetables. This is a recipe from a New England 
woman who was a beautiful coak. 



106 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER XII. 
LAMB AND MUTTON. 

THE flesh of the mutton is very nutritious and easy 
of digestion. It is ranked with beef as a nutrient, 
but the fat of the mutton is rather difficult to digest, 
for the reason that it contains a large per cent, of stearic 
acid. The lamb, like the veal, wants to be cooked soon 
after the animal has been killed and dressed, but the 
mutton wants to be hung and ripened. The sheep 
wants to be three years old to furnish the best, and 
should be ripened for two or three weeks where the 
temperature is uniform. If hung out and frozen, it 
must be cooked as soon as it begins to thaw, but we 
get them now from the cold storage where they do not 
reach the freezing-point. The Southdown mutton, held 
in such high esteem in England, is often cut from the 
sheep older than three years. We are iiow producing 
mutton on our Southern mountains that is said to be 
just as good as the English Southdown. Young lamb, 
six weeks 6r thi'ee months old, is known in the market 
as spring lamb ; it is found in market from January, 
but is scarce, high-priced, and has very little flavor. 
The one-year-old lamb is called a yearling. The strong 
flavor of the mutton, that is so disagreeable to many, 
comes from the penetration through the skin of the oil 
from the wool. This is obviated by removing the pink 
skin and trimming off the superfluous fat from the 
outside. Mutton must be fat to be good, the flesh a pink, 
and the fat very white and firm. In serving mutton 
be sure your plates are very warm, so the fat will not 



LAMB AND MUTTON. 107 

harden to disfigure the dish and spoil the appetite. 
Lamb is divided into two parts by cutting through 
the entire length of the backbone, then subdivided into 
fore and hind quarters. Eight ribs are left on the 
hindnjuarter ; these are cut into chops and are known 
as rib chops. The meat between these ribs add the leg 
is called loin or kidney chops. On one side of the bone 
of the loin chop we find a small piece of tenderloin, 
which corresponds to the porterhouse steak in the bee^f. 
Rib chops which have the bone cut short and scraped 
are called French chops. The leg is sold whole for 
boiling or roasting. The fore-quarter can be boned, 
stuffed and rolled, and roasted or boiled. For a loin 
of mutton the saddle is removed before the creature 
is cut down the back. Lamb chops can easily be, told 
from the mutton by the red color of th^ bone. In the 
mutton the bone is white and much harder than the 
lamb. Mutton usually is preferred to be a little under- 
,done, but lamb wants to be well cooked. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. ' 

Remove skin and superfluous fat; trim and put on 
in kettle of boiling water. Bring quickly to the boiling- 
point; boil four or five minutes, and skim. Then finish 
the cooking at a place on the i-ange where it will cook 
slowly. Add one tablespoon of salt, small piece of red 
pepper, one onion, onei ' turnip and one carrot when 
about half done. Serve with caper sauce.^ 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chops. 

Wipe chops, and remove skin and any fat that can 
be spared. A little should be left on, as many people 
are fond of it. If a loin chop, roll the flank and fasten 
with a skewer. Broil same as beefsteak. Remove to 



108 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

hot pan and butter, and arrange on chop plate or plat- 
ter, very hot. Decorate with parsley or watercress and 
small red radishes. 

Panobroiled Chops. 

Prepare same as the above, and put in hissing hot 
frying-pan. As soon as one side is well seared, turn 
and sear the other. Turn often, using knife and fork 
that the surface may not be pierced. Cook five minutes 
if liked rare, and from nine to ten if liked well done. 
Press the outside fat to the pan so it will brown. When 
done place on hot pan and sprinkld with salt and pep- 
per, and spread with butter. You can serve tomato 
sauce with them if you like. The tomato sauce wants 
to be highly seasoned and thick, and poured on hot 
platter. Chops arranged round the edge; parsley gar- 
nish. 

Mutton Chops a la Maintenon. 

Have six chops cut one and a half inches thick. 
With sharp knife split the chop to the bone; this 
forms a pocket, which you fill with a mushroom prepa- 
ration which you have prepared previously and have 
ready at hand. Put a teaspoon or more into^ each 
pocket. Press the meat together and fasten securely 
with small wooden sl^ewers. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip into beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs. 
Saute in butter or first-class olive oil for five minutes, 
turning as they brown. 

Mushroom Preparation. 

Put into saucepan thriee level tablespoons butter, 
half cup chopped mushrooms, one tablespT)on grated 
onion. Stir and cook all together for five minutes, 



LAMB AND MUTTOk. 109 

until onion and mushrooms are cooked. Add three 
tablespoons of flour (level), a pinch of salt, a ^ittle 
cayenne pepper. Stir until the flour is well blended, 
then pour on half a cup of stock or cream; the cream 
is best if you have it. Serve with Spanish rissotto on 
chop-plate. 

Boned and Roasted Leg of Mutton. 

Your butcher will bone the leg for you if you order 
it so, or you can easily remove the bone with small 
boning-knife. Wipe, remove skin and fat, stuff and 
sew into shape. Place in deep pan and brown on all 
sides in three tablespoons of butter in which you have 
a little onion, slice of carrot and turnip. Add four 
cups boiling water, cover closely and cook for tw^o and 
a half hours, uncover and brown. Kemove from pan 
to hot platter, and make a brown sauce in the pan in 
which the mutton was cooked by first pouring off all 
the fat in the pan and add two tablespoons of butter 
and two tablespoons of flour (rounding, or fouT of each 
level). Brown the butter, add the flour and stir until 
well browned, then add the liquor you poured out of 
the pan, first straining it, and removing the mutton 
fat, and cook and serve in a gravy-boat. If desired, 
you can turn half a glass of currant jelly into this 
sauce, and return leg of mutton to pan and baste well 
for about ten minutes. This will givp it the tastp' of 
venison. 

Stuffing. 

1 %, cups cracker crumbs. 1 tablespoon onion, minced. 

2 tablespoons melted but- y^ teaspoon thyme, 
ter. I 2 tablespoons water. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 



A-B GAS RANGES ^— eg"" 

110 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Roast Lamb. 

Remove the caul fat which usually covers the leg 
of lamb when sent from the market. Wipe the meat 
well with wet cloth. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
place on rack in dripping-pan, place in hot oven and 
close the pores of the meat, then add two tablespoons 
of good, sweet lard to the pan, and baste every ten or 
fifteen minutes. Cook slowly for about two hours. 
Serve with mint sauce, or gravy made in the pan^ if 
you like. Make same 'as for roast beef. 

Crown Roast of Laniu. 

Select the ribs from two loins. Scrape the meat 
from the bones as far as the lean meat, and trim off 
the backbone. Shape each piece in semi-circle, to form 
the crown. Have the ends of the bones cut evenly and 
not too long. Cut "an opening in some ^mall pieces of 
fat salt pork to prevent bone from burning. Eoast in 
moderate oven for one and a half hours, using care 
that "the gas is kept low during the time. Place on hot 
platter, and fill center with potato chips or pur^e of 
chestnuts, peas, or any vegetable you desire to serve 
with it. 

Curried Mutton. 

This can be made from cooked or uncooked meat. 
If uncooked, use the fore-shoulder cut into pieces about 
an inch each way, using care to remove all fat, skin 
arid muscle. Cook in boiling water for a few moments 
until the scum comes to the top, which you remove; 
cover closely and cook until the meat is quite tender. 
Season the meat with a little thyme, parsley, salt and 
a few pepper-corns during the cooking. When meat 



LAMB AND MUTTON, 111 

is done strain the liquor, remove the meat and make 
curry sauee from the liquor that you have strained. 

Curry Sauce. 

Two rounding tablespoons of butter, two I'ounding 
tablespoons of flour, one onion minced and cooked for a 
few moments in the butter, half teaspoon curry powder 
mixed with the flour. Add flour and curry to the 
butter and onion. Stir and mix well, and add two 
cups of the strained liquor from the meat. When well 
blended add the meat to the s£iuce, reheat, and serVe 
with border of cooked rice. 

Scotch Broth. 

Use three or four pounds of mutton from the fore- 
quarter: Cut meat into cubes with scissors, put in 
kettle and cover with three pints of cold watet, bringing 
to' the boiling-point quickly. Skim and add three- 
fourths of a cup of barley that has been soaked over- 
night. Simmer until the meat is tender. It will take 
from one to one and a half hours, cooking slowly. It 
is well to cover the bones with cold water in another 
saucepan and /cook while the meat and barley cook. 
Strain the water from bones onto meat when tender. 
Put two tablespoons of butter into frying-pan and 
cook one cup each of onion, celery, carrot and turnip 
for a few moments, and add these to the meat and 
barley, and cook until the vegetables are teiider. 
Thicken, with butter and flour tubbed together. 

Mutton Broth. 

3 pounds neck of mutton. 2 tablespoons rice or 

2 quarts water. 2 tablespoons barley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 onion, 1 turnip. 



112 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Remove the skin and fat, and cut into small pieces. 
Put into kettle with the bones, and cover with cold 
water. Heat slowly to the boiling-point. Skim and 
season. Add the onion and turnip. When the meat 
is tender, strain and remove the fat. Reheat and add 
the rice or barley, whichever you desire, and cook until 
rice or barley is tender. If barley is used, it must be 
soaked overnight. 

Scalloped Lamb. 

Use cold roast lamb. First remove all the outside 
and cut in thin slices. Cover the bottom of well-but- 
tered baking-dish with buttered cracker crumbs, then 
a layer of the meat with some boiled macaroni or 
spaghetti, if you have some; then another layer of the 
meat and macaroni, and pour over all a highly seasoned 
tomato sauce, with one sweet-pepper minced fina and 
added to it. Cover the top with buttered crumbs, and 
bake for twenty minutes in moderate oven. ■ 

Lamb Kidneys. 

Soak, pare, trim and slice six kidneys. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cook in hot frying-pan in two 
tablespoons of butter until brown; dredge well with 
flour, and add three-fourths of a cup of hot water, or 
stock if you have it. Cook for five minutes, and season 
with onion juice, lemon juice, and a little sherry or 
Madeira wine. Kidneys want to be cooked quickly or 
they become tough. By some they are considered a 
table delicacy. I myself do not enthuse on them. 

Minced Lamb on Toast. 

Remove dry and gristly parts from roast lamb. Cut 
fine; and heat in a little butter in frying-pan. Season 
with salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Sprinkle with 
flour, and add enough stock or cream to make a nice 
gravy, and serve on to^t. 



SWEETBREADS. 113- 



CHAPTER XIII. 
SWEETBREADS. 

THE veal sweetbread is the only one we consider in 
cookery, although found also in the lamb. It is 
found in the calf during the time they feed on milk, and 
disappears with liquid food. Sweetbreads are a great 
table delicacy, and very good for the sick and conva- 
lescent. , Sweetbreads are found in the animal in pairs, 
and connected by tubing. They are known as the 
heart and throat sweetbread. The heart sweetbread 
is firiii and compact, and its position is near the heart. 
The other part is known as the throat sweetbread. 
The heart sweetbread is the jnost desirable, but when 
you order a pair -you have one of each. As soon as 
they come from the market they want to be placed; in 
cold water for an hour, to draw out the blood and make 
them white. Change the water once during the hour, 
and drain them and put them into boiling water with 
two teaspoons of salt, and a little lemon juice or vine- 
gar, and boil them very slowly for twenty minutes. 
Drain and place them in cold water, to keep them 
white and firm. It is very nice to roll them in a clean 
piece of cheesecloth, if they are to be kept any time. 
Roll the cheesecloth vefy tight, and this makes them 
firm if you wish to shape them in cutlets. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Use parboiled sweetbreads cut into cubes, allowing 
one cup of thin white sauce for a pair. These can be 
served on pieces of toast, or in timbale or patty cases, 



114 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Broiled Sweetbread. 

Split parboiled sweetbreads, and sprinkle with salt 
and a little, white pepper. Broil for a few moments, 
butter, and serve with slices of lemon. 

Fried Sweetbreads. 

Split the sweetbread into two pieces, roll in crumbs, 
then egg, then in the crumbs again. Allow them to 
stand for a short time. Fry them in deep fat, place 
them on hot platter, and serve with a Bechamel or 
tomato sauce. 

Chicken and Sweetbreads in Cream. 

Use equal parts of chicken and sweetbreads cut in 
small cubes, and reheated in a cream sauce. One-half 
cup of sliced mushrooms, or truffles, are always an 
addition to sweetbreads. 

Sauted Sweetbreads. 

Cut parboiled sweetbreads in slices, saute , them in 
butter, and serve with French peas. Have the peas 
as dry as possible, and seasoned with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

Sweetbread Cutlets with Asparagus Tips. 

Use parboiled sweetbreads cut into slices, and 
shaped into cutlet. Season with salt and pep'per. Dip 
into egg, then into crumbs; fry in deep fat. Arrange 
on hot platter around asparagus tips that are well 
seasoned with drawn butter, salt and pepper. 

Braised Sweetbreads 6n Casserole. 

Place in a casserole a bed of cubed vegetables, using 
earrot, turnips and celery with a few cubes of salt pdrk. 



SWEETBREADS. 115 

Lay parboiled sweetbreads on it. Add water or stock 
enough, to almost cover the vegetables. Cover casse- 
role tight and cook slowly for thirty-five or forty min- 
utes; uncover the last fifteen minutes to brown sweet- 
breads. Serve from the casserole. 

Larded Sweetbreads. 

Parboil sweetbreads, lard on upper side, and bake 
or braise until well browned, basting with meat glase. 
Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Calf's Brains. 

Soak brains as soon as they come from the market 
in cold water for one hour, putting a teaspoon of salt 
in the water to whiten the brains. Then simmer in 
water, which has salt and one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, for twenty minutes. A little thyihe, small piece 
of bay leaf and small onion are an improvement to 
the ^flavor of the brains while they are simmering. 
Place them in cold water as soon as they are taken 
from the boiling water. Eemove all skin and fibers, 
and they are ready to cook in any way, in which brains 
are served. 

Marinade of Brains. 

Cut the prepared brains in pieces half the size of 
an egg. Let them stand half an hour in a marinade of 
, one tablespoon of lemon juice, two tablespoons' of oil, 
a little onion juice, salt and pepper. "Wipe, dip them 
in egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve with 
highly seasoned ^ tomato sauce. ' i 



116 SCIKNTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
PORK. 

PORK is the flesh of the pig or hog, and, according to 
the eleyenth chapter of Leviticus, we should not use 
for the reason that it does not chew the cud. But the 
fact that he ran intc the river and the devil, left the 
swine, has made him very useful for food for our table, 
as some parts of the pig are very delicious; but it is 
not meat for us to feed our family on as the beef or 
mutton is. 

The hog is split dovm the entire length of the back, 
and the chine and sparerib correspond to the loin of 
the veal and lam^ The hind legs give us our hams; 
the fore leg furnishes the shoulder. Then we have the 
feet, heads, hocks, liver, hearts and flank, also the leaf- 
lard, which is the betet lard we have for all purposes 
for which lard is used. The leaf -lard has a peculiar 
smell which the other fat of the pork does not have 
after the rendering- The feet are thoroughly cleaned 
and first boiled until the bones will shake, then are 
pickled, fried and used in difl'erent ways. Hams and 
shoulders are cured and smoked. The flank is salted 
and smoked and used as bacon; the ribs sold as spare- 
rib; the chine or loin sold for roasts, or cut into chops 
as the purchaser may desire. Prom the trimming of 
the lean and fat meat mixed we make the sausage, 
which is ground and highly seasoned. There should be 
fat enough used in sausages to fry themselves. The 
heads are cooked very tender and made into sauce. 



PORK. 117 

Pork, from the fact that it is difficult of digestion, 
should not be served very often, and is always looked 
upon as a meat to be served during the cold weather. 
In buying pork see that the fat is firm and white, 
and always cook very well done. 

V Roast Pork. / 

Wipe roast, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
place on rack in the roasting-pan. Eoast in moderate 
oven for three or four hours, according to the size of 
the roast. Baste often during the roasting. Pour off 
some of the fat and make a brown gravy in the pan 
sam,e as for other roasts. 

Roast Spareribs with Apples. 

Use the entire rib. Season with salt and pepper, 
and have one quart of tart apples pared, cored, and 
cut into quarters. Sprinkle with one-half cup of sugar, 
stirring the sugar thoroughly through, them, and pile 
them in the center of the ribs, then roll the ribs and 
tie them so as to hold the apples. Place in dripping- 
pan, and cook for thirty-five or forty minutes. This 
is very delicious, as the apple imparts a fine flavor to 
the pork and the pork to the apple. 

Pork Chops with Apple Sauce. 

Cook tart apples to make a mound in center of dish. 
Sweelten to taste and have them rather dry. Keep hot , 
on back of stove. Wipe the chops and season with salt, 
pepper and a little thyme, if liked. Place in hot frying- 
pan and cook slowly until they are tender and well 
browned' on both sides. Serve with leaf of lettuce 
-under each chop round edge of hot platter, with apple , 
sauce piled in center. This presents a very sightly dish. 



118 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Pork Tenderloins. 

Eemove any gristle from the tenderloin, wipe, put 
into hot oven, and brown qujckly, then season vfith salt 
and peppei; and bake three-quarters of an hour. The 
last twenty minutes add one cup of thin cream, -and 
baste often with, it. Serve with sweet potatoes, browned 
in the oven, sprinkling them with sugar. 

Breakfast Bacon. 

Have the bacon cut very thin and very cold. Fry 
in hot frying-pan. Lift each piece and let all the fat 
drip off, and rest it on a hot plate with brown paper 
■ to absorb the fat, or you can broil on the broiler, then 
all the fat is in the pan under the' broiler. This fat 
is good for frying fish, etc., if you use care not to burn 
it. / 

Broiled Ham. 

Soak thin slices of ham in milk for one hour, wipe, 
and broil for a few moments, until well b-ro-wTied. 
Potatoes that have been boiled in their jackets, and 
sliced rather thick, and sprinkled with salt and pepper, 
and broiled by dipping the ham fat on them as they 
broil, may be served as a garnish with the ham. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Trim ham and place in frying-pan; brown quickly 
on both sides, but do not let the fat burn. Hain must 
not be cooked enough to make it h^d. Pour off the 
hajn fat and rinse salt from frying-pan. Return fat 
and cook the eggs in it. Place the ham in the center 
of a hot platter, and put the eggs around, and garnish 
■vyith parsley and small red radishes. , 



PORK. 119 

Boiled Ham. 

Soak ham overnight in cold water to covfer. ' Wash 
well and trim. Put into hapi boiler or kettle large 
enough to hold it, and cover with cold water. Heat 
to the boiling-point and cook slowly until tender. A 
cup of vinegar added to the water the last half hour 
of the cooking is a great addition to th« flavor, and it 
also tenders the meat and makes it cut nicely. Let 
ham partially cool in the water in which it was boiled, 
then lift to a dripping-pan and remove outside skin 
and trim into shape; then sprinkle with cracker crumbs 
and sugar, and stick with cloves. Bake in slow oyen 
about forty-five minutes, until well browned. Serve 
hot with a champagne sauce. 

Fried Pig's Feet. , 

Split the feet, ^and sprinkle with salt and peppei*. 
Crumb and egg, and fry in deep fat; drain and serve 
with lemon cut into quarters. 

Sausages. 

Out apart, and pierce each link several times with 
a skewer or fork. Put into frying-pan and cover with 
boiling water, and cook for fifteen minutes. Drain and 
fry until well browned. Serve ,with fried appl6s. 

Fried Apples. 

Gut apples half an inch thick across the apple. 
Remove the core, leaving on the skin. Saute in but,ter 
or dripping from the sausage until tender. Sprinkle 
slightly with powdered su^ar, and place on same plat- 
ter with the sausage. 



/ 



120 SCHENTIPIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XV. 
POULTRY AND QAME, 

POULTRY ineludes turkey, chicken, fowl, duck and 
goose. In game we have birds and animals found 
in the field and forest. They include the quail, wild 
duck, partridge, deer-, etc. 

In selecting poultry choose those that are plump, 
but not fat. If young, the flesh will be firm , to the 
touch; end of the breastbone soft and pliable, like a 
gristle more than a bone. Short, yellow-legged chicken 
and fowl are given the preference, even by Shakespeare, 
who was a fine judge of all good things, to eat. Dark-, 
fleshed game can be served rare, while the white flesh 
wants always to be well done. Chicken, fowl and tur- 
key are very nutritious, and the white meat of the 
chicken is digested with little effort on the part of the 
stomach. Since the incubator has been in use we have 
the broiler all the year round in the market. These are 
called spring chickens. Fowl is found in the market 
the year round. Turkeys are in market all the year, 
but are in best condition during the winter months. 
Geese and tame ducks are hard to digest on account of 
the large per cent, of fat they contain. Squabs -are 
young pigeons, and are a very delicious tidbit for the 
sick. The pigeon wants slow, long cooking to make it 
tender. Game, with the exception of the wild duck, is 
tender and easy to digest, from the fact that it contains 
much less fat than poultry. 

A young goose about twelve weeks old is called 



A-B GAS RANGES """" """""''" 



people 



POULTRY AND GAME. 121 

green goose. Kerwen, in his "Host and Guest," speaks 
often of green goose. Young ducks are called ducklings. 
The canvasbaek heads the list of the game ducks from 
the fact that he is the greatest divfer among the ducks, 
and for this reason goes way down in the lakes and gets 
the wild celery root and fattens on it. This is what 
gives his flesh the peculiar flavor the game-lover delights 
in. The redhead is next. He follows the canvasbaek, 
and picks up all the pieces of celery he drops, and 
this rates him second. The redhead is found in the 
market a little earlier than the canvasbaek. The mal- 
lard from Lake Erie is very fine. All game ducks are 
cooked, quickly in a very hot oven. Some writer has 
said, "Let the duck pass through the kitchen." Quail 
and partridge are served from the middle of October to 
January ,1st. The fresh grouse appears in the market 
during the fall; plover from April to December. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry. 

Remove all feathers, then light the gas-burner and re- 
move the hairs and down. Have the butcher to remove 
the tendons in the leg before removing the feet, as this 
makes the leg much more eatable and tender. Make 
an incision below the breastbone that will admit the 
hand. With the hands remove the entrails, gizzard^ 
heart and liver, using care not to break the gall-bag 
that lies' close to the liver under the right lobe. A very 
little bile from the gall-bag will make the chicken very 
bitter. Lying close to the ribs is a soft, spongy matter 
pink in color. This is the lungs, and every particle of it 
wants to be removed, also the kidneys, lying near the 
end of the backbone. Put llhe fingers in, close to the 
neck, and withdraw the windpipe and crop. Cut tlie 
neck off close to the body. If the chicken is to be 



122 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

roasted, leave the skin long enough to double over the 
neck and make fast to the back. Remove the oil-bag, 
and wash the fowl by allowing the water to run through 
it.' Wipe thoroughly inside and out, and see that every- 
thing has been removed. 

Fowl to be Cut Up. 

Take care to pick out all feathers with point of small 
knife. Singe over gas flames, take off oil-bag, draw 
everything from inside and remove crop, windpipe, etc. 
Wash under faucet by letting the water run on it. * Wipe 
dry, and cut up by first taking off wings, legs and sec- 
ond joint together, and separating if desired. isText cut 
off the white meat, split through the center and make 
two pieces, or, if a fricassee is to be made, leave it in 
one piece. Wipe all the pieces with wet cheesecloth, but 
the back and giblets want a thorough washing. 

To Stuff Poultry. 

After the fowl has been thoroughly prepared, you 
put in the stuffing by the spoonful, first at the opening 
at the neck, using care to fill it only full enough to look 
plump after the stuffing is heated. Put the remainder 
of the stuffing in the body, and, if not too full, you can 
fasten with a skewer; in case it is full, you had best 
sew with e6arse thread. 

To Truss Fowl. 

Press the thigh close to the body and hold in posi- 
tion by inserting a steel skewer under the middle joint, 
running it, entirely through the body, coming out under 
the middle joint on opposite side. Fasten legs together 
at the end, and with a strong cord tie them to the tip 
of the/ tail. Press wings close to the body, and secure 



POULTRY AND GAME. 123 

to position with the second skewer, which you pass 
through wing, body and wing on the opposite side. 
Draw neck skin back nicely, and fasten to position with 
thread and needle or with small wooden skewer. Cross 
string attached to tail and draw round the end of lowei- 
skewer, then cross again and place round the upper 
skewer. Fasten in knot and cut off ends. Season out- 
side with salt and pepper, and spread with soft butter 
, and place in roasting-pan. 

To Bone a Chicken. 

Out through the skin down the center of the' back, 

and with a pointed knife lift the flesh on either side, 

until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. 

Then you bone the joints carefully. After this the 

flesh from breastbone will be very easily removed. The 

fowl thus , prepared must be flUed with force-meat to 

take the place of the bones that have beein removed. 

This can be a second uncooked fowl or the best cuts 

of veai from the round, minced and seasoned highly. 

The body should be filled with stuffing, either made with 

crumbs or chestnuts as you like. Sew th^ skin together 

down the entire back. Truss the fowl as usual, and it 

is ready to bake. 

* 
Broiled Chicken. 

Singe, wipe, and with sharp knife cut through the 
backbone, beginning at the neck. Lay open the bird and 
remove the contents from inside. - Cut out the rib 
bones on either side by detaching them from the breasts 
bone ; flatten by poiinding a little. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and spread with soft butter. Lay on a* 
well-greased broiler and broil twenty minutes. Expose 



124 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the flesh side to fire most of the time, as the skin side 
will brown much quicker. Remove to hot platter and 
spread with butter, and season with salt and pepper. 
Should the chicken brown too quickly, you can place 
it in the oven for a few moments to finish the cook- . 
ing, as chicken and fowl must be thoroughly done be- 
fore they are served. 

Slightly Tainted Meat. 

The one recipe I give for chicken in the least bit 
tainted is, do not use it at all. But the remedy always 
suggested is to wash thoroughly in soda water and 
rinse in water with a little vinegar in it. The fact is 
that chicken and fowl are great to catch ptomain, so 
too much care can not be used to guard against it. 

Boiled Fowl. 

Pluck, singe, draw and wash the fowl. Tie up in 
cheesecloth and place on trivet to keep it from catching 
on bottom of the kettle in which it is cooked. Put 
enough boiling water in the kettle to about half cover 
the chicken. Turn occasionally, and cook slowly until 
tender. Add salt enough to the water in which you are 
cooking to taste agreeable and a little pepper. A small 
cube of salt pork is nice cooked with it. 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl. Roll each piece in 
flour that has a teaspoon of salt to two rounded table- 
spoons of flour, and a little white pepper. Brown in 
equal' parts of lard and butter to golden brown, using 
care not to burn them. Put the ribs, neck and' gizzard 
in bottom of saucepan, and pile the pieces of chicken 



POULTRY AND GAME. 125 

on them. Make a sauce in the frying-pan with flour 
water ,^ and season nicely to taste. Strain over the fowl 
in saucepan and simmer slowly until tender; the time 
will depend upon the age of the chicken. Ten minutes 
before serving add one cup of mushrooms and one cup 
of peas. The peas can be canned or fresh; if fresh, 
they will want thirty minutes. 

White Fricassee. 

White fricassee is made by preparing the fowl'in the 
same way, and boiling slowly in water until tender. 
Then remove, and have about two and a half cups of 
the stock which you remove the fat from, and thicken 
with flour and butter rubbed together, and season with, 
salt and pepper. Just as you go to serve, add one cup 
.of oysters plumped in their own liquor. In serving a 
fricassee of chicken, place the chicken on hot platter, 
laying breast in the center of dish, and wings and thighs 
opposite each other across leg at bottom of the platter, 
and garnish platter with green at each end. Watercress 
is always preferred for this purpose. 

Fried Chicken a la Kentucky. 

Clean, singe and cut into pieces for serving two 
young chickens. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
roll in flour, having the chicken wet, so that as much 
flour as possible will stick to the pieces. Put into fry- 
ing-pan in very hot lard, and cover closely, and brown 
well on all sides. When the pieces are all browned, 
remove them to hot pan, and pour off the, fat and add 
flour and brown in two tablespoons of butter, and to 
this add milk to make a rather thick sauce. While 
sauce is boiling, loosen all the brown caramel from bot- 
tom of the pan, to give the sauce a good flavor and also 



126 SCIEN'TIPIC COOKING. 

color. Just as you go to send to table, aad one-half 
cup of good cream. Arrange the chicken on hot plat- 
ter, and pour the sauce over the whole. Garnish with 
cress. 

Chicken in Cream k la Denver. 

, Dress, singe and cut up two fryers weighing about 
two and a half or three pounds. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Eub over with soft butter, roll in flour, 
and arrange in dripping-pan. Put into hot oven 
and cook until a golden brown. Pour over en6ugh thin 
cream to half cover, retyirn to oven, and cook slowly 
until the chicken is well done, but not long enough to 
make it a bit dry. Baste with the cream several times 
during the baking. Remove the chicken to hot platter, 
and^ make a cream sauce with the cream in the frying- 
pan, using one tablespoon flour and a little more of 
the thin cream. 

Chiclcen k la Meringo. 

Clean, dress and cut chicken into pieces. Season 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in 
salt pork (or half lard and half butter) until a golden 
brown. Place the pieces in stewpan, and cover with 
sauce, and cook slowly until tender. Add one cup 
mushrooms cut into pieces, and cook five minutes. Ar- 
range on hot serving-dish, and pour sauce round. Gar- 
nish with cress or parsley. ' '. 

Sauce. 

Vr cup butter. 2 tablespoons turnip, 

1 small onion, . minced. minced. 

2 tablespoons carrot, iy2 cups boiling water. ' 
minced. 1 cup strained tomatoes. 

1/4 , cup flour. Salt and pepper. , 

Dash I cayenne. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 127 

Cook butter and vegetables five minutes. Add flour 
and cook until the flour is well browned. Add the water 
and strained tomato. Cook for a few moments, and 
strain onto chicken in stewpan. 

Planked Chicken. 

1 three-pound chicken. A little onion, minced. 

'^ji pound mushroom caps. 1 teaspoon lemon juice.' 
4 red peppers. 1 tahlespoon minced parsley. 

4 green peppers. ^^ cup butter. 

, Enough mashed potato to dress plank. 

Clean the pepper by removing the seeds from the 
inside, and cook in boiling water until tender. Cream 
the butter, parsley, onion and lemon juice. Prepare 
chicken as for broiling. Spread with soft butter, and, 
bake in hot oven until nearly cooked. Butter plank, 
and arrange border of potatoes, with pastry-bag and 
tube close to edge of plank. Peel mushrooms and saut6 
them in a little butter. Arrange on chicken with the 
red and green ' peppers. Spread all with the prepared 
butter, and, arrange your red and green peppers inside 
the potato border, and place in hot oven to brown the 
potatoes. Finish cooking the chicken. 

Chicken en Casserole. 

Prepare fowl and separate at the joints. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and roll in flour. IVEelt one-third 
Clip butter in frying-pan. In this brown the pieces of 
fowl, removing thern as they brown to the casserole. 
Then^ in the butter in the frying-pan, brown one onion, 
one green or red sweet-pepper and a little ham, all 
miiiced fine. Add to this three cups of hot white stock 
or boiling water, two cups of stewed tomatoes, with one. 
cup of rice that has been- boiled a few moments to 



128 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

swell it. Mix all well, season with salt and pepper, 

and pour over the chicken in the casserole. Cover 

closely, and cook in the oven slowly until the chicken 
is tender. Serve from casserole. This is fine. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Use a fowl weighing four or five pounds. Clean 
and cut up. Put into stewpan with! boiling water to 
cover. Unless objected to, add a small whole onion. 
Pour on enough boiling water to cover, and cook slowly 
until the meat will fall from the bones. When about 
half done add salt to taste — not too much — as you will 
at the last have to reduce the jstock to one cup. Remove 
chicken from the bones cut into slices, or mince the 
white and dark meat separately, and decorate a mould 
with slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon, and place a 
layer of the white meat and one of the dark until all 
is used. Remove fat from the stock, cool and pour 
over the chicken. Add more salt, if there is not enough 
before you pour on the stock. Place the mould under 
heavy weight until it is firm. 

Chicken Pie. 

Use fowls. Dress clean, cut up, and put into stew- 
pan with a small onion, sprig of parsley and small piece 
of bay leaf. Cover with boiling water, and cook until 
tender. "When half done add salt and pepper. "When 
chicken is tender remove from stewpan, strain stock, 
and skim off fat. If too much stock, reduce it, by boil- 
ing, then thicken with flour diluted with cold water 
to the right consistency. Remove some of the large 
bones and arrange the chicken in a baking-dish. Pour 
over the gravy and cover with pie-crust, making sev- 
eral incisions for the steam to escape. The crust can 



POULTllY AND GAME. 129 

be plain pie-crust, puff paste, or a crisp biscuit dough, 
as you choose. 

Chicken Gumbo, 

Clean, dress and cut up a three-paund chicken, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and flour. Brown in salt-pork 
fat, and remove to stewpan; fry in the same fat one 
small onion, three cups of sliced okra, one red sweet- 
pepper, onion ,and pepper cut very fine, and cook for 
ten minutes. Add this to the chicken in the stewpan 
with two cups of tomatoes, two and a half cups boiling 
water, salt to taste. Cook sio\yly until chicken is ten- 
der, and add three- fourths cup boiled rice. — (From a 
friend in New Orleans.) 

Stuffed Chicken. 

Clean, dress, stuff and truss chicken. Place in drip- 
ping-pan breast down for awhile, to keep the white meat 
from being dry, first having rubbed with soft butter. 
Place in hot oven until it begins to brown, then lower 
your gas, and cook slowly, basting frequently with but- 
ter and hot water from the pan. Turn the chicken 
from time to time that it may brown on all sides. When 
the- thigh is tender the chicken is ready to remove. 
Make 4he sauce in the pan, adding the giblets that you \ 
have boiled in salted water until tender, and chopped 
fine. 

Stuffing for Fowl, 

2 cups feread or cracker % teaspoon poTydered thyme- 
crumbs. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

3 tablespoons butter. A dash of cayenne. 
1 onion'. , White peppifer. 

1 stick of celery. Salt. 

1 egg. Moisten with milk. 

Cook onions, celery and. paisley in butter. A trai- 



130 «OIENTIPIC COOKING. 

pound turkey is a nice size. Dress, olean, stuff and 
truss same as chicken. Spread with soft butter, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in hot oven, and 
baste with hot water and butter, and turn and expose 
all sides to the heat that it may brown evenly,. Keep 
the gas rather low, so that it may not brown too much. 
Before serving remove strings and skewers. Gs,rnish, 
with parsley and curled^ celery. In preparing it will 
talte double the amount it does foi- chicken-. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

1 cup bread crumbs. % cup butter. 
3 cups chestnuts. Salt to taste. 

White pepper. Moisten with cup cream, thin. 

Shell and blanch chestnuts. Cook in salted water 
until tender, drain and mash. Add butter, salt, pep- 
per, cream and cracker crumbs. Blend all together 
and stuff same as with bread. 

Oyster Stuffing. 

3% cups bread crumbs. % cup melted butter. 

1 pint oysters. A little grated onion. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean and drain oysters. Mix together the bread 
crumbs, onion, butter, salt and pepper. Add the oysters. 

In Cerman cooking one-half cup seeded raisins and 
some chopped nuts are often added,* and are very nice. 

Gravy for turkey is made in pan same as chicken 
gravy; but if the turkey is very fat, pour fat off, as 
you will find turkey fat hard to digest. You can leave 
in some of the fat or use butter if you prefer, and have 
the giblets well cooked in salted water, until tender 
and minced fine. Use the water in which the giblets 
were cooked to make the gravy, with flour to thicken. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 131 

Roast Qoose. 

Remove pinfeathers, singe, and wash in warm wuter 
with soda in it Scrub well with stiff brus-h. Draw, 
wash in cold water and wipe'; stuff, truss, and season 
.with salt and pepper. Cover the breast with thin strips 
of fat salt pork. Place' on rack and put into hot oven, 
and cook for about two hours, more or less, according 
to age of goose; Baste frequently with fat in the pan. 
Remove fat and brown the goose. Serve with apple 
sauce. 

Potato Stuffing for Qoose. 

3% cups hot mashed 3 tablespoons butter. 

potatoes. Salt and pepper. 

1 finely minced onion. 1 egg, beaten vej-y light. 

Mash potatoes; add onion, butter, salt and pepper, 
then the egg. Fill goose and place on rack in oven. 
This stuffing is good for domestic ducks. 

Roast Wild Duck. 

Dress, clean and truss wild duck, fill the breast 
with celery or quarters of apple. Put into hot oven 
and cook for twenty minutes. Cover breast with fat 
salt pork. Baste every five minutes with fat in the pan. 
Serve hominy fried and folded like omelet (it wants 
to be broAvn before folding). Currant jelly and celery. 

Canvasback Duck. 

Cook canvasback duck same as the above, and when 
done the brefast alone is served; the legs, wings, etc., 
are cut off and juice expressed with hot meat-press and 
poured over the duck. Orange cocktail is a nice accom- 
paniment for canvasback duck. 



132 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Roast Quail. 

Dress, clean and truss quail. Cover with soft butter. 
Season with salt and pepper. Lard or spread the 
breast with salt pork. Cook about eighteen or twenty- 
minutes in rather hot oven. 

Broiled Quail. 

Prepare sairne as broiled chicken. Serve on pieces 
of toast, toasted only on side the quail rests on. Serve 
currant jelly, and garnish with parsley. Time for 
cooking, seven or eight minutes. 

Broiled Venison Steak. 

Use the recipe for broiling beefsteak* Spread with 
butter and serve, rare. 

Venison Cutlets. 

The cutlet is cut from the loin of the venison. They 
are trimmed into shape and egged and crumbed, and 
sauted in butter. Served with wine sauce with olives 
in it. 

Saddle of Venison. 

Saddle of venison is prepared same as saddle of 
mutton, and served with currant jelly sauce. The veni- 
son is spread with curr.ant jelly just before taking from 
the oven. ' 

Guinea Fowl. 

They are at their best when a year old and under. 
They are cooked same as other domestic fowls, and are 
served with a sauce. I ate one at a cafe that I thought 
was delightful. It was braised in oven, and a sauce 
served with it called Kentucky sauce, which was a 
brown sauce made in the dripping-pan with good apple 



EOULTEY AND GAME. 133 

cider instead of water, smd with mushrooms added. 
Herons, snipe, plover, prairie chickens, quail, pig- 
eons, woodcocks, and all small game, are cooked in much 
the same way as spring or broiler chickens. They are 
broiled, fricasseed, stewed and casseroled, according to 
fancy and the occasion upon which they are to be served. 
The meat from pecan-nuts is a nice addition to a sauce 
to be served with game. 

Roast Partridge. 

Pick, draw and clean, and fill with turkey dressing. 
Truss into nice shape. Place in dripping-pan. Place 
thin slices of salt pork on the: breast. When brown 
slightly add some water to pan to keep pan from burn- 
ing. Ijower your fire and baste frequently. It will take 
about one hour tb cook. When dDne make the sauce 
in the pan after removing the birds, and adding flour 
and more water if needed. .Serve on hot platter, and 
garnish with parsley. Serve sauce in gravy-boat. 

Fried Plover. 

You skin the plover and reserve only the breast 
and legs. Roll in flour. Place in frying-pan with' hot 
butter, and turn ai;d fry until a nice >brown on both 
sides. Eemove to hot platter. Season with butter, salt 
and pepper,' and make brown gravy by adding flour 
and more butter to the frying-pan. Season nicely and 
ppur over the birds. 

Woodcock. 

Pick, draw and clean. Tie the legs, remove skin 
from the head, turn head under tl^e wings, and tie. 
Put a thin slice of bacon over the breast, and keep in 
place with small wood skewers.- Pry for three or four- 
minutes in some hot fat. Season an(i serve on toast, 



134 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

I 

with some tart jelly, currant preferred. These can be 
prepared in the same way and cooked in the casserole, 
and served from casserole. 

Quail Pie. 

Cut quails into halves, stew until tender, and season 
with butter, salt, pepper, • parsley and onion juice and 
a tablespoon minced celery. Thicken with flour, place 
in baking-dish, and when cold cover with good pie-crust 
or puff paste, and bake until well browned. Serve from 
baking-dish. ' 

WARMED-OVER DISHES FROM GAME AND 
POULTRY. 

Creamed Chicken. 

2 cups cold cooked chicken. 1 teaspoon minced celery 
1 cup 7/11111. sauce. (using the heart). 

% cup mushrooms. 

Cut chicken into cubes, reheat in the cream sauce 
with celery and mushrooms. 

Chicken and Oysters. 

Prepare same as the above, and add one pint of 
oysters that have been plumped in their own liquor, 
Either of the above dishes can be served in potato well 
or patty-shells, or with border of rice. 

Belgian Hare Baked. 

Prepare about same as chicken. Clean, cut up, sea- \ 
son with salt and pepper, and roll in flour. Place in 
dripping-pan and cook thirty minutes in oven, basting 
often with melted butter. Arrange on dish and serve 
with cream sauce. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 135 



CHAPTER XVI. 
FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 

BUTTER and flour cooktid together are the founda- 
tions for all the different kinds of saMces. When 
not browned it is called roux; when browned, brow-n 
roux. For white saiices we cook the butter and flour 
together in a saucepan, using care that it does not 
brown, and to this, as soon as it bubbles long enough 
to burst the starch grains in.the flour, we add the liquid 
very, slowly, with the seasonings. For brown sauce we 
stir the butter until well browned; flour is then added 
and stirred with the butter until both are well browned 
before adding the liquids. Remember the success of 
the sauce depends upon the browning of the flour and 
butter properly, for the least bit of burning will give 
the sauce a bitter taste. The proportions for sauce to 
have, the average thickness is one rounding tablespoon 
of floUr and one of butter^ or, if leveled, two of each, 
and liquid, whether milk or stock. For brown stock 
a little more fl.our is necessary, as the browning process 
takes from the thickening qualities of the flour. It 
is well to remember when a sauce is placed on back 
of range to be used later that a few bits of butter on 
top will prevent the crust from forming. In using 
vegetables, to get the flavors, such as onion, carrot, 
turnip, etc., mince them very fine and cook in the b/ut- 
ter a few mpments.' , Skim out before adding your 
flovir. This gives the best flavor yO|U can get from the 
vegetables; Mix your salt ^nd pepper with the flour. 



136 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Thin White Sauce. No. 1. 

1 cup milk (cold). 1 tablespoon butter (rounded). 

.% teaspoon salt. '% tablespoon flour (rounded). 

Dash white pepper. 

Put butter in saucepan and melt until it bubbles. 
Add flour and seasoning, and stir until well blended. 
Pour on Biilk slowly, first drawing the saucepan to a 
cool place on the range. Should you pour the milk all 
in at one time, you will probably have a lumpy sauce 
that you will have to strain. A wire whisk is best for 
stirring a sauce. This sauce is about as thick a^ cream. 

White Sauce. No. 2. 

1 tablespoon butter. , 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

Prepare same as thin white sauce. 

Cream Sauce. 

Prepare same as thin white sauce, using cream in- 
stead of milk, and do not allow it to boil after the 
cream is -added. 

Thick White Sauce for Cutlets and Croquets. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk or white stock, or 

% cup flour. cream and white stock. 

Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Prepare as white sauce. 

Veloute Sauce. 

Same as white sauce, using chicken stock, flavored 
with onion, celery, carrot and sweet herbs. 



PISH AND MEAT 3AJJCES. 137 

Sauce AUemande. 

To veloute sauce acl:l one-fourth cup mushroom 
liquor and a few of the mushrooms cut fine, and yolks 
of two eggs, well beaten with, one teaspoon of l^mon 
juice. After the eggs have been added do not, lei it 
boil, but keep hot in double boiler. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Make same as veloute sauce, infusing with half cup 
thick cream just as you send to table. This is what 
the Earl of Bechamel did just as the chef was sending 
the turbot to the table, and though the Eirl has passed 
away, we still have Sauce Bechamel. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Vs cup butter. IVa cups water. 

2 tablespoons flour. ' % teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Divide the butter in halves, using one-half in sauce- 
pan, to which add the flour as soon as it bubbles up 
well, then the water very slowly. Cook for a few mo- 
ments and add the remaining butter in small pieces. 
Served with boiled fish. 

Caper Sauce. 

To a drawn butter sauce add ope-half cup capers 
with a little of the vinegar. If to be served with boiled 
mutton, use the water in which the mutton was cooked 
for the liquid in making the drawn butter, and if to 
be served with fish, you can use some of the water in 
which th^ fish was boiled. 

Egg Sauce. 

This is prepared same as drawn butter sauce, with 
the addition of two bard-boiled eggs, cut into slices or 
chopped rather fine. 



13S SOIENTIPIC COOKING. 

Brown Sauce. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cup brown stock. 

2 tablespoons flour. H teaspoon salt. 
Small onion, sliced. Dash wbite pepper. 

Cook onion in butter until browned, but not burned ; 
if the onion has a golden brown, it will add color to 
the sauce. Remove onion and stir butter until well 
browned. Add the flour and seasoning, and stir until 
browned; then the stock gradually. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

To one cup of brown saiiee add one-half cup of 
mushrooms cut in. two or three pieces according to size, 
and, if liked, a tablespoon of lemon juice is very nice. 

Sauce Piquante. 

To one cup brown sauce add two tablespoons chopped 
shallot or very mild onion, two tablespoons chopped 
parsley, three tablespoons vinegar, and cayenne pep- 
per to taste (using care not to get too much, as it is 
very pungent), one tablespoon of capers and two of 
finely minced cucumber pickle. 

Tomato Sauce. 

2 cups tomatoes. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 small onion (minced). 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon minced ham. % teaspoon salt, 
white and cayenne pepper. 

Cook onion and ham with the tomatoes for ten or 
fifteen minutes, then rub through strainer fine enough 
to catch all the seeds. Cook flour and butter together 
with the seasonings until well blended. If tomatoes, 
are very acid, add sugar to develop a pleasant acid, 
then add them slowly to the butter and flour. Tomato 
sauce wants to be quite thick. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 139 

Orange Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter. Juice 1 orange. 

3 tablespoons flour. Rind 1 orange. 

1% cups brown stock. % cup sherry wine. 

Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Brown butter, add flour with seasonings, arid stir 
until well browned. , , Add stock gradually; and just as 
you send to table the orange juice, orange rind cut in 
fancy shapes, and the sherry. This is fine for duck. 

Currant Sauce. 

1 cup brown stock. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 tumbler currant jelly. 1 teaspoon salt. ■ 

2 tablespoons butter. % teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons corn starcli. 

Melt butter, add cornstarch, and wheia it cooks for 
a moment add cup of stock slowly, then the salt and 
pepper, lastly the jelly; and as soon as all is well mixed 
and hot it is ready to serve with venison, mutton, goose 
or domestic duck. 
' Chutnee Sauce. 

1 cup granulated sugar. % tablespoon ground ginger. 

2 bups vinegar. 1 large onion. 

1 clove garlic. % teaspoon mustard. 

15 tart apples. % cup chopped raisins. 

I Par,e, core and quarter apples, and stew in just 
enough of vinegar to cover until they are very soft, 
and mash fine. Chop onion and garlic together (very 
fine), and add with the sugar, ginger, mustard, raisins, 
one-half teaspoon salt: Thoroughly mix, bottle and 
cork tightly, and keep in cool place. Serve with meat 
or fish. V , ' 



A'B ENAMEL Gas Ranges 



As Easy to Clean 
as a China Plate 



140 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Olive Sauce. 

Cover one dozen olives with boiling water, atid let 
them stand for one hour on back of range. Wipe and 
remove the pits with sharp knife by paring themi round 
and round. Add them to two cups of brown sauce, and 
simmer for three or four minutes. 

Spanish Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 green Spanish pepper, cut 

2 tablespoons flour. fine. 

a cup brown stock. 2 tablespoons each of celery, 

2 cups strained tomatoes, onion and carrot. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 2 tablespoons lean ham (raw). 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook ham and vegetables with butter until well 
browned; add flour, stock and tomatoes. Strain and 
season with sugar, pepper and salt. 

Tomato Cream Sauce. 

2 cups tomatoes. 1 slice onion. 

1 cup white sauce. Little thyme and bay leaf. 

% cup cream. Vi teaspoon soda. 

1 stalk celery. Salt, pepper and cayenne. 



Cook tomatoes with seasonings for fifteen minutes, 
rub through strainer, add soda, white stock and cream. 
Serve with baked fish or lobster cutlets. 



Oyster Sauce. 

1 cup_ oyster broth. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup thin cream. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 pint oysters. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the oysters, and reserve the liquor. Heat, 
skim, and add oysters, and cook until plump. RemovE 
oysters and cook butter and flour, add oyster liquor 
and cream; as soon as it comes .to the boiling-point, 



PISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 141 

season and add oysters. Serve at once or keep hot in 
double boiler, with a few bits of butter dropped in to 
keep skim from forming. 

Cucumber Sauce with Whipped Cream. 

% teaspbon salt. ■ 2 cucumbers (seeds removed, 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. chopped and drained). 
ly^ cups wbipped cream. Paprika and -white" pepper. 

Have cream whipped stiff; fold in lemon juice, salt, 
pepper and paprika, then add the cucumber. 

Celery Saiice. 

3 cups celery, sliced thin. 1 pint thin white sauce. 

"Wash and scrape celery to remove all the tough 
outside before slicing. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender, rub through a sieve, and add to the white 
sauce. Celery sauce is often made from the stock- in 
which fowl or turkey has been cooked, and one-half cup 
good cream added at the last. 

Lobster Butter. 

One-fourth cup of butter. Lobster coral. Wash, 
wipe, and force coral through sieve; put with the but- 
ter and rub until well blended. This butter is used for 
lobster soup, and sauces to give color as well as richness. 

Tartar Sauce. 

1 tablespoon vinegar. •% teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons lemon juice. 1 tablespoon Worcestershire. 

% cup butter. 

Brown butter in saucepan. Mix salt, paprika, lemon 
juice and Worcestershire sauce in small -bowl, which 
you place over hot water. As soon as butter is well 
browned strain it over the seasonings in bowl. This is 
fine with a sauted shad roe, 



142 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Mattre d'Hdtel Butter. 

% cup butter. 1 tablespoon finely minced 

y, teaspoon salt. parsley. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Cream butter well, add salt,'pepper and parsley, and 
rub until the butter takes on a green hue from the" 
parsley. Then add lemon juice a little at a time. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

V2 cup butter., 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

V2 teaspoon salt. • % cup boiling water. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. Dash of cayenne. 

Cream butter thoroughly until soft and creamy, add 
yolks one at a time, then the lemon juice a few drops 
at a time until all is well blended, and lastly the salt 
and cayenne. Just before serving put it in top of 
double boiler over boiling water, first having stirred in 
the half cup of boiling water into the sauce. 

Hollandaise for Chops. 

Add to the above sauce one tablespoon each of 
minced parsley and fresh tarragon. This is also good 
served with smelts or salmon. 

Bread Sauce for Partridge or Grouse. 

2 cups milk. 14 cup fine bread crumbs. 

1 onion. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 cloves. Yz cup coarse, stale bread 
'% cup chopped pecan- crumbs. 

nuts. Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Cook milk, bread and onion with cloves stuck in it 
in double boiler for thirty-five minutes. Remove onion 
and add salt, ' pepper, pecan-nuts, paprika and butter. 
Brown jthe coarse crumbs in tablespoon of butter, and 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 143 

sprinkle over the sauce after it is poured onto a hot 
platter, to serve the partridge or grouse on. 

Mint Sauce. 

% cup mint leaves % teaspoon salt. 

chopped fine. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

1^ cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon water. 

A few grains of paprika. 

Mince the mint very fine. Add salt and sugar and 
stir well, then add the vinegar with the water, and let 
it steep for one hour before using. 

Wine Sauce. 

1 cup brown sauce. 14 cup sherry or port wins. 

Vi tumbler currant jelly. Dash of cayenne. 

Use brown sauce without onion; add jelly and 
cayenne; heat very hot, and just as you serve it add 
the wine. 

Sauce Tartare. 

1 cup mayonnaise, mixed 2 tablespoons each, finely 

with mustard and tar- chopped, of capers, 

ragon vinegar, pickles, olives, parsley. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. 

1/2 cup vinegar. 1 teaspoon flour. 

Vi cup sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon mustard (dry). 1 cup whipped cream. 

Heat vinegar to the scald. Mix mustard, sugar, 
salt and flour. Add the eggs sligl|tly beaten, and stir 
all well together, then pour on slowly the heated vine- 
gar, and return all to the saucepan and cook about 
five minutes. Remove, add butter, cool and add whipped 
cream just as you serve. ' This is a fine dressing for 
tomatoes, cabbage, lettuce, etc. It is sometimes called 
cooked mayonnaise. ' 



144 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Curry Sauce^ 

FOR EGGS, CHICEEfT, ETC, 

2 tablespoons butter. % teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon curry powder. 

2 tablespoons chopped 2 cups milk or white stock, 

onion. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Melt butter in fi'yijig-pan, add onion, cook for a 

few moments, but do, not allow it to brown; add the 

flour, salt and currji- powder mixed together. Add to 

frying-pan and cook a few moments until well blended. 

Add the liquid, cook again, and strain. Add lemon juice 

just as you serve, as all fruit juices have a fresher 

taste uncooked. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

1 quart cranberries. 1 pint sugar. 

1% cups water. 

Carefully pick and wash berries, put into saucepan, 

add water, and cook until tender. Then add the sugar. 

When thoroughly dissolved it is ready for use, and may 

be served hot or cold. It may be strained and moulded 

if desired. 

Apple Sauce. 

FOE GOOSE AND PORK. 

Peel, core and quarter eight or ten tart apples. 
Make a syrup with equal quantities of sugar and water ; 
Ihe^ amount will depend upon the tartness of the apple, 
hut for ten apples three-fourths cup of each. Let it 
<eome to boil and renjove any scum that arises. Add 
rapples, cover closely and boil until apples are tender. 
They can be served in quarters, or mashed fine with 
potato ricer. 

Mushroom and Tomato Sauce. 

To a pint of brown tomato sauce add one-half can 
of sliced mushrooms. _ 



VEGETABLES. 145 



CHAPTER XVII. 

VEGETABLES. 
The Care, How to Cook, Etc. 

IN the vegetable kingdom we find all the diiferent 
plants as food on our table, and it is a very import- 
ant- factor to our daily menu, and with exception of the 
beans, peas and lentils, which contain a great deal of 
proteid, their chief value is -in the large amount of 
potash salts which they contain, together with the cel- 
lulose which is found in many of them, and this gives 
the needed bulk necessary to keep up the proper action 
of the stomach. The peas, beans and lentils take the 
place of meat to repair the muscle in the body. The 
various vegetables and plants are used in a variety of 
ways. Some are cooked, others used in their natural 
state as salad, such as lettuce, onions, cucumbers, water- 
cress, tomatoes, radishes, etc. These are dressed in a 
variety of ways singly, and combined in salads. 

The Care of Vegetables. 

The care of vegetables is a very important thing, 
and the wholesomeness and flavor depend largely upon 
the care they receive. As soon as they come from the 
market they want to be cared for, and placed where 
they keep best. Lettuce wants' to be dipped in water 
and wrapped in cheesecloth, and laid near the ice. 
Celery is treated in the same way. Com will lose much 
of its sweetness if kept very long, and is a thing that 



146 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

wants to be pulled from the stalk and cooked at once. 
Peas and asparagus need the same treatment as corn, 
but will stand a little keeping, but are better cooked 
soon after cutting and picking. 

Wilted vegetables can be made fresh and crisp by- 
placing in cold water, but they should not be kept 
too long in the water, or they lose their flavor. Winter 
vegetables want to be kept in a cool, dry place. In 
our markets of to-day are found the fresh vegetables all 
the year round, brought from the Southern States and 
California. 

Cooking Vegetables. 

Vegetables are always cleaned and washed in cold 
water and cooked in boiling salted water. Those that 
you wish to retain the green color want to be cooked 
uncovered. The time for cooking vegetables will vary 
according to the freshness and age. 

Mushrooms and Truffles. 

These come under the head of vegetables. Mush- 
rooms grow in many localities, and should be used as 
often as possible, as they contain quite a quantity of 
nutriment, and are always an addition to meat sauces, 
croquets, macaroni, etc., and are fine sauted in butter 
or stuffed and baked. The mushroom culture has be- 
come quite a thing, and they supply the markets all 
the year rourld. One wants to be careful in gathering 
them_ from the outside, and only those who positively 
iinderstand should attempt to gather them, as the test 
of the silver spoon has been exploded from the fact 
that -those which are edible will blacken the spoon as 
well as the poisonous ones. 



VEaETABLES. 147 

To Prepare the Mushroom. 

Trim off the stalk, and if th« skin is tough, peel, if 
necessary. Wash them, but do not allow them to lie 
in -water, as it may destroy the flavor. The best flavor 
is developed in the mushroom by sauteing in butter, 
but they are served in different ways. 

Truffles. 

Truffles grow underground, and are found more 
abunda,ntly in France than elsewhere, but by the time 
they are canned and exported they become too great 
a luxury,, for anything but special occasions. The best 
truffles are :?ound in the oak forests, where, the spil is 
■very sterile. They are about as large as a walnut, with 
a rough, brown, warty surfece, closely akin to a potato. 
They are nftt easily found, from the fact that Ihey are 
underneath the surface of the ground. The hog is very 
fond of them, and it is in this way th«y hunt for them. 
They take the hog out, and he soon begins to root up 
the ground where they are located, but as soon as he 
brings th^m to the surface they are taken from him. 
Truffle-gatherers keep this up until the hog' will no 
longer work and have his food taken from him, and 
they have to rest him until he forgets his ill returns 
during the night ; but he will start at it the next morn- 
ing. The best truffles are found in France, but the 
price makes them a luxury. They can not be cultivated. 
They retail at two dollars a pound, and are used as 
a garnish for fancy entrees. On account of the price, 
many are very fond of them. 



A-B GAS RANGES """' " """^ 



Styles and Sizes 



148 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



COOKING OF POTATOES. 

Boiled New Potatoes. 

Select those that are ripe. Scrub with small vege- 
table brush to remove all outside skin. Boil quickly 
in boiling salted water until you can pierce them with 
fork. Drain and sprinkle lightly with salt, and cover 
with perfectly clean cloth. Shake until dry and serve 
at once. 

Baked Potatoes. 

This is considered the most perfect way of cooking 
the potato. They want to be thoroughly scrubbed and 
washed. If all the earth is not thoroughly removed, 
you will taste it on the potato. In baking potatoes 
have them of uniform size, so they will all be done at 
the sanje time. Place them in the hot oven and bake 
them three-quarters of an hour. On removing from 
the oven break the skin to allow the steam to escape. 
Serve at once. 

Riced Potatoes. 

Use a plain boiled potato as soon as it becomes soft, 
and press through a ricer. Season with butter and salt. 

Duchess Potatoes. 

Use a pint of hot riced potatoes. Use one table- 
spoon butter, salt to taste, the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, and enough hot cream to make the mixture 
pass easily through a forcing-bag with tube attached. 
Decorate in„any style desired. Brush top with egg and 
milk, and brown in hot oven. 

Potato Roses. 

Use duchess potato mixture and forcing-bag. Hold 
bag in upright position, tube pointing down; force out 



VEGETABLES. 149 

potato to form the rose. Raise it quickly to break the 
flow. Shape these on tin sheet, brush with egg and milk, 
and brown in oven. Remove with spatula or broad- 
bladed knife. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Use riced potatoes, and season with butter, salt and 
hot milk; beat- until very light, and pile on serving- 
dish, but do not smooth, as the irregularity of the po- 
tato ij much more attractive. 

Potato Croquettes. 

2 cups liot riced potatoes. Onion juice, cayenne, 

2 tablespoons butter. parsley. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 

Mi^ ingredients and beat thoroughly. Shape, dip 
in crumbs and egg, and in the crumbs again. Fry in 
deep fat to a golden -brown. Drain on paper, and gar- 
iiish with parsley, and serve. 

Potatoes O'Brion. 

Fry three cups of potato cubes in deep fat and 
drain on paper. Cook one tablespoon onion in one 
tablespoon butter for two or three minutes, skim out 
the onion, and add three pimentoes to butter. Cut 
pimentoes in small pieces. When quite hot add the 
potato cubes. Mix well and serve. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Use small potatoes, cut into eighths lengthwise. Soak 
in cold water for an hour or more. Take from water, 
dry and fry in deep fat. The fat must not be too hot, 
as the potato must cook as well as brown. . Sprinkle 
with salt and serve. 



A'B GAS RANGES ^^ Ji """^ 

150 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Mill Creek Potatoes in Cream. 

"Wash, pare and cut into pieces not larger J;han peas. 
Parboil in salted water for three or four minutes ; drain 
and put aside where they keep hot. For one quart of 
potatoes use a pint of cream sauce made by recipe for 
thin white sauce. Pour over' potatoes, mix thoroughly, 
and turn into double boiler. Pour one-half cup of 
cream on top of potatoes, and place them on back of 
stove where water in bottom of boiler will just simmer 
for two or three hours. By this time they will have 
absorbed the sauce and cream, and will be very de- 
licious; served with steak or chops, or any place where 
you would serve a creamed potato. — Chef of Mill Creek 
House, Cincinnati. 

Delmonico Escalloped Potatoes. 

Cut raw potatoes in pieces size of peas. Parboil 
in salted boiling water for about four minutes, drain 
and mix with a pint of thin white saupe, to which one 
teaspoon grated onion or onion juice has been added. 
Mix well and taste for seasoning. Turn into a well- 
buttered bake-dish, cover closely, and bake until sauce 
is almost absorbed, but do not have oven hot enough 
to brown.. Ten minutes before you serve, sprinkle the 
top with one cup grated cream cheese and buttered 
crumbs. As soon as the cheese is melted and crumbs 
brown, it is ready to serve. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes into thin slices. Put 
layers in well-buttered baking-dish. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and dot with bits of 
butter. Eepeat. Add hot milk or cold until you can 



VEGETABLES. 151 

see it through the topjayer; bake one hour or until the 
potato is soft. 

Potato Curls for Garnish. 

Select long potatoes, wash and pg^re. Shape with 
potato curler. Soak one hour in cold water. Drain 
and dry between towels. Pry in deep fat. Sprinkle 
with salt. 

Hashed Browned Potatoes. 

Chop five or six cold boiled potatoes very. fine. Sea^ 
son with salt and pepper. Put into- a frying-pan one- 
fourth cup of fat ; when hot, put in the potatoes and 
heat quickly. Shape like omelet by pressing to one side 
of pan. When well browned drain off the fat and turn 
, onto serving-dish. Two tablespoons of stock are nice 
mixed with the potatoes. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Thoroughly wash and brush, and bake same as 
white potatoes. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and 
cook until tender. ' Press through ricer, season with 
butter, salt and pepper, and moisten with hot milk. 
Beat until very light and serve. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash, pare and cut into slices lengthwise. Sprinkle 
with salt, and put in frying-pan one rounding table- ^ 
spoon of butter and one of lard, and lay the potatpes 
in and stir them so they will all be coated with tlie fat. 



152 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Then sprinkle them with one-half cup of btown sugar, 
cover closely and eook very slowly, stirring them as 
they brown until all take on the yellow, glossy look 
of candy. This is the way they cook them in the South, 
and they use a heavy iron frying-pan to cook them in. 
They are fine. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices lengthwise, shap- 
ing them so they are fiat on both sides. The slices want 
to be one-half inch thick. Dip them into melted butter, 
coating all sides well. Broil on grate_ of gas broiler 
until well browned. Nice with broiled ham. 

Sweet Potatoes with Wine. 

Bake and prepare same as white potatoes, by split- 
ting in halves lengthwise. Mash, season with butter 
and salt, moisten with thin cream, and add two table- 
spoons of sherry wine. EefiU skins and bake in hot 
oven. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes. 

Use two cups hot rieed potatoes, add two tablespoons 
butter, one-fourth teaspoon salt, a dash of pepper, one 
egg beaten light. Shape into croquettes, egg and crumb, 
and fry in deep fat. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Cook small onion, cut into slices, in two tablespoons 
butter for five minutes; add three or four cold boiled 
potatoes cut into rather thin slices, about one-fourth inch 
thick. Sprinkle with salt, and stir well until all are 
well blended. Let it rest until potatoes are well 
browned, fold and turn onto hot serving-dish. Lyon- 
naised and hashed and browned potatoes are both im- 



VEGETABI;ES. 153 

proved by the addition of two tablespoons of brown 
meat stock. They also hold together better. 

Artichokes. 

The French artichokes are in the market all the 
year, and are the ones principally used. At present 
California is sending them to our markets, but they are 
not so -good as the French ones, but are cheaper. In 
New Orleans the artichoke is held in high esteem. 

Boiled Artictiokes. 

Remove stems close to leaves, and ciit off outside 
bottom leaves, cut one inch from top, and with a sharp 
knife remove choke. Tie with string to keep it in shape. 
Soak in cold water from forty-five to sixty minutes: 
longer does not hurt. Put into saucepan of boiling 
water, with salt and a little lemon juice. Cook thirty- 
five minutes: Remove from water, rest upside down 
to drain, and remove string. Serve with a HoUandaise 
sauce. TJiey are often served as a course. Many pre- 
fer them dipped in melted butter as they eat them. 
In any case the leaves are drawn out separately, and 
dipped in the sauce or butter as may be. The fleshy 
parts only are eaten. 

Pried Artichokes. 

First boil them, then quarter, season, dip in batter, 
and fry in deep fat: 

Artichoke Bottoms. 

Cut off all leaves and remove choke. Cook until 
tender in boiling salted water with lemon juice or 
vinegar. Serve with sauce Bechamel. 



154 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Boiled Summer Squash. 

. Select squash by trying with the finger nail; if 
easily pierced with nail, it will cook quickly. Wash 
and cut into quarters or eighths, ^ according to size of 
squash. If the seeds are large, remove them. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Turn on cheesecloth 
in colander, and wring in the cheesecloth until dry as 
possible. Mash, season with salt and pepper. 

Fried Summer Squash. 

Prepare and treat same as eggplant. 

Steamed Hubbard Squash. 

' Cut into pieces, arid remoVe seeds and stringy parts. 
Place in steamer and cook until tender over boiling- 
water. Remove pulp from' shell. Mash and season with 
butter, salt, pepper and a little thick cream, and, if 
not sweet enough, add a little sugar. Place on baking- 
dish and reheat in oven. Serve from dish. 

Steamed Squash au Qratin. 

Prepare same as above recipe, and cover v(fith but- 
tered cracker crumbs, and leave in oven long enough, 
to brown the crumbs. 

Fried Eggplant. 

Pare an eggplant and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle 
with salt, dip into egg with two tablespoons of water 
stirred into it, and then into fine bread crumbs, and 
fry in lard with one tablespoon of butter with the lard 
until crisp and brown. If preferred, this can be fried 
in deep fat. In either case drain on paper and keep 
hot. 



VEGETABLES. 155 

Stuffed Eggplant. 

Cook eggplant in boiling salted water to cover for 
ten or twelve minutes. Remove and cut a slice from 
top, and witli a spoon i-emove the pulp, leaving a wall 
thick enough that it will hold the prepared stuffing. 
Chop pulp, and add one cup bread crumbs. Melt in 
frying-pan two tablespoons butter, add one of finely 
chopped onion, cook for a few moments, and add all 
to the pulp. Season all with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with half cup of strained tomato. Mix all well, 
and return to frying-pan; cook for five minutes, cool, 
and add one egg well beaten. Refill the eggplant and 
cover -with buttered crumbs, and bake for thirty min- 
utes in an oven not too hot. 

Cauliflovt^er. 

Cauliflower is the poetry of the cabbage family. 
They are in the market throughout the ye£ur^ In select- 
ing cauliflower choose those with the floweret white and 
free from black spots, and with leaves surrounding the 
head fresh and green. Trim outside leaves off and cut 
stalk even, with the edible portion, and place head down 
in cold water with salt added to draw out any insects 
that may be concealed in the floweret. Let it rest for 
half an hour. Cook iii boiling salted water until ten- 
der, but no longer. One that is fresh and crisp will 
cook in from twenty to twenty-five minutes. The cauli- 
flower may be tied in cheesecloth before placing in the 
kettle. Put in kettle head down. If to be, used as 
creamed cauliflower, remove, separate the flowerets, and 
reheat in one and one-half cups of thin white sauce. 



156 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cauliflower a la^Hollandaise. 

Prepare same as creamed eauliflower, and use Holr 
landaise sauce. 

Cauliflower with Cheese. 

Prepare eauliflower and place on dish for serving, 
head up, and sprinkle with grated cheese, then with 
buttered crumbs. Pour one cup of thin white sauce 
round the cauliflower, and place in the oven to brown 
the crumbs and melt the cheese. The casserole is the 
best form of serving dishes au gratin, for the reason 
they are always hot. 

Fried Cauliflower. 

Prepare by placing in cold water for thirty minutes. 
Separate into flowerets, shape stalks, and boil in salted 
water for ten minutes or until tender. Drain, roll in 
bread crumbs, then in egg mixed with two tablespoons 
of water, then back to the crumbs again. At time for 
serving fry in deep fat, drain and serve. This makes 
a nice entree, with a thick tomato sauce, with sweet 
green pepper in the sauce. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Brussels sprouts are of the cabbage family also. 
Bach little sprout is a miniature cabbage-head. They 
grow on a stem, and one stem will yield about one and 
one-half to two quarts. In the , preparation we pick 
them over and soak in cold water for twenty minutes, 
then drain. Cook in boiling salted water until you can 
pierce them easily. One-eighth of a teaspoon of soda 
(bicarbonate) will help to retain the green color. As 
soon as tender, drain. Use one cup of thin white sauce 
to one pint of the sprouts. 



VEGETABLES. 157 

Brussels Sprouts with Butter. 

Prepare same as above. Drain on cloth placed on 
colander, and toss in saucepan with one-fourth cup of 
butter, one tablespoon minced parsley, salt and pepper; 

Cabbage. 

In our markets we find the Savoy, purple, sugar-^ 
loaf and drumhead cabbage. For boiling, the Savoy is 
the best ; for- cold slaw, the purple and drumhead. 
Always choose the heavy, solid head. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Remove outside leaves. Cut into quarters, and cut 
out the tough stalk. Soak for half an hour ill cold 
salted water. Place in kettle with plenty of boiling" 
salted water, and cook for ten minutes. Drain and 
return to kettle, and cover with boiling water and 
cook uncovered until tender. Drain and seascai with 
melted butter, salt and pepper, or it may be cooked 
with salt pork. In this case the pork wants to be boiled 
for aboiit two hours before the cabbage is added, first 
parboiling the cabbage in salted water and draining 
to remove the strong juices. Then add to the water, 
-in which the pork is cooking, using care to remove the 
cabbage as soon as it is tender. Too long cooking will 
make it red and strong. 

Escalloped Cabbage. 

Cut one-half boiled cabbage quite fine. Season with 
salt, pepper and dash of cayenne. Mix with cup of 
thin white sauce, and put into buttered baking-dish. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, and, if liked, a sprink- 
ling of cheese. Put into oven and bake until crumbs 
are browned. 



158 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Cut out stalk end of_ head of cabbage, leaving a 
hollow in the shell! Make a stuffing with one pound of 
good pork sausage, one cup bread crumbs, one sweet 
pepper cut into fine ribbons, one onion, a little parsley, 
and one egg. Moisten with a little water or milk, fill 
cabbage, and tie tightly in cheesecloth and place on 
trivet in kettle. Fill half full of water. Cover closely 
and steam until cabbage is tender. Serve a tomato 
sauce, rather thin and highly seasoned. 

Purple Cabbage with Wine. 

Slice the cabbage very fine. Soak in cold water, 
drain, and cook in stewpan with two tablespoons butter, 
a little onioji juice, salt, pepper and a dash of cayenne. 
Cover closely and cook luitil the cabbage is tender. 
Add one-fourth cup white wine and one tablespoon 
sugar. Cook five minutes and serve with baked rabbit. 

Cabbage Slaw. 

For slaw select a solid white head of cabbage, cut 
into halves, and with a very sharp knife shred as fine 
as possible. Soak in cold .water until crisp. Drain, 
and dry by tossing in a bowl. Dress with boiled crearai 
salad dressing. 

Turnips. 

In the market we find the small, flat purple top 
and the rutabaga, and a small, green variety known 
as kohl-rabi, but the rutabaga is the best and sweetest 
of the varieties. The juices of the turnip are strong, 
and they are better for parboiling once at least. 



VEGETABLES. 159 

Mashed Turnips. 

"Wash,, pare, cut into quarters, parboil and drain; 
return to stewpan, cover with salted water, and cook 
until tender. Drain, mash and season with salt, pep- 
per and butter. A good-sized white potato cooked 
■with them will make them drier when they are mashed. 

Creamed Turnips. 

Wash, pare, cut into cubes, and cook until tender. 
Allow one cup of thin white sauce to three cups of 
turnip cubes. 

Turnip Cups^ 

Wash, pare and cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, small turnips of uniform size. Driain, anid 
with spoon remove the inside to form a cup. Dip each 
cup into cream sauce to give them a glazed appear- 
ance and also to season them. Fill them with cubes 
of boiled and seasoned carrots or peas. In either case 
the dish is more sightly if the peas or carrots are sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and butter, from the fact that 
the color is' better. 

Onions. 

The onion, garlic, leek, chives and shallot are of the 
same family as the lily. From the fact that the juices 
and odor of the onion are so strong, we want to soak 
them in water for some time before cooking, and change 
the water on them after the first ten minutes of cook- 
ing, and replenish the water with cold water with salt 
in it. 'Fhey are wholesome, and considered good for 
the nerves. The common garden onion we have all the 
year. The Spanish, Eermuda ahd Texas silver-skin 
appear in the market during March. ' These onions are 



A.-B ENAMEL Gas Ranges "ll^a 



Eamy to Clean 
China Plate 



160 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

larger and more delicatejiy flavored than our own onion. 
Garlic, chives and shallots are used in salads, and also 
for additional flavor for many dishes. 

Boiled Onions. 

Place onions in cold water to remove skins. Put to 
boil in plenty of salted water. Boil ten minutes, drain, 
cover again with salted water, and boil until tender, 
the time depending upon size of onion. They must'be 
thoroughly done. A medium size will require about 
one hour. Drain and add a little milk or thin cream, 
cook a few moments, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper. ' 

Tlie Large Wliite Onions in Cream. 

Remove skins, cut into slices about one-fourth inch 
thick, and with the finger separate into rings. Soak 
one hour in cold water to cover, with a little salt thrown 
into it. Drain and cover with boiling water, and boil 
hard for five minutes. Drain again and cover with 
boiling water with a little salt in it, and cook until 
quite tender. Dress with a thin cream sauce, to which 
you add one-third cup of thick cream. -This is fine 
with duck or fowl. 

Stuffed Onion. 

Use the large Bermuda onion when in season (op 
the Spanish). Remove the outside skin, and boU for 
fen minutes -in salted water; drain, and return to the 
fire. Cook until tender, but not broken. Remove from 
the stewpan, drain, and slightly cool. Remove part 
of the center, and prepare stuffing with onion which, 
you have- removed chopped fine and mixed with bread 
crumbs, cold chopped chicken oc lamb left over from, 
the roast or boiled leg, one-half cup pecans, and moist- 



VEGETABLES. 161 

ened with tomato juice or cream, and two tablespoons 
butter. Mix all well together and refill onions. Sprinkle 
with buttere_d bread „ crumbsj^ place in buttered bake- 
dish, and cook until well done and crumbs are browned. 

Fried Onion. 

Clean, cut intb thin slices, and put two tablespoons 
of butter in hot frying-pan. Add onions and cook 
until tender, stirring occasionally with a fork so as 
not to let them bum. As soon as they are spft;^ season 
with salt and paprika. 

Carrots. 

The earjots are always in the market, a.nd now we 
have both the n^w and old all the year round, and at 
present they are quite fashionable served as a vegetable, 
while formerly they, were only used for flavoring for 
soups, sauces, etc. To prepare them, wash, scrape and 
cut off tops dnd roots ; cut into cubes-, balls or fancy 
shapes, as desired. The brightest color and best flavor 
of the carrot are near the skin. 

Carrots in Cream. 

Scrape, wash and cut in any shape you wish, in 
long strips about the size of a match, cubes, balls or 
with "vegetable centers. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Season with one-half cup of rich cream, 
one tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste. Sim:-- 
mer for a few moments and serve. These are fine. 
Serve with fowl or veal. 

Carrot Border for Peas. 

Prepare as above, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper, and form in border round peas. They are 



162 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

nice served together. Bits of the carrot top with pink 
sweet-peas make a pleasing garnish. 

Celery. 

Celery is in thie market all the year round; but the 
best is the smaller or home grown.-' That from Cali- 
fornia is too large and coarse to be tender, even with 
the bleaching." In Denver, Col., they have what they 
«all the Pascal celery, which is the most delicious I 
€ver tasted. Even the outside green stalks are tender 
and edible. I find they are shipping this celery to dif- 
ferent markets, and during my work in Youngstown, 
Ohio, I found it there, much to my delight, as nothing 
makes so good a salad. Kalamazoo, Mich., furnishes 
quantities of celery for all over the United States. 

To prepare celery cut off roots and leaves, scrape, 
and scrub with vegetable-brush. Wash in cold water, 
and chill in water made cold with a pi6ce of ice, and 
■one-half tablespoon of lemon juice in the water to 
keep it white. The celery tops are more attractive 
when served if they are cut three or four times with 
a sharp knife, making the cut about one inch long each. 
This forms curls as it rests in the ice water. 

Creamed Celery. 

Clean, scrape and cut celery stalks into inch pieces. 
Boil half an hour, or until soft, in salted water. Drain 
and add one cup white sauce. The outside stalks are 
nice for creamed celery, if they are scraped and well 
brushed to remove all the stringy substance that the 
knife loosens. The hearts can be served as celery or 
used for a salad. 



VEGETABLES. 16$ 

Lettuce. 

The lettuce is fpund in the market all the year, 
and is valuable for the table for the salts and water 
which it contains, although it is not a nutrient; but in 
spring, when the green vegetables are hjgh-priced, it 
tones the stomach and keeps the blood cool. There 
are several varieties — the curly, the head lettuce and 
the lettuce Romain. The latter is held in high esteem 
by the connoisseur, dressed with French or mayon- 
naise dressing. To prepare lettuce for use, remove the 
outside leaves that can not be used, and with care sepa- 
rate remaining leaves. Wash in cold watei- and rinse. 
Shake all the water off you can without bruising the 
leaves; lay it with leaf turned- down on towel to dry, 
and shake and toss on towel until water is absorbed. 
If to be served as a salad, place in bowl as nearly in 
'the original shape as possible. If the lettuce is not 
to be used for several hours, wrap it up in a clean 
cloth and place it on block of ice, and by the time you 
want it, it will be very crisp. The head lettuce is the 
most desirable for salads, and the -curly lettuce for a 
garnish. Cut into ribbons, it makes an attractive bor- 
der, especially if you dot border with red radishes 
made into roses by cutting with sharp knife, and clip- 
ping the skin very thin, and resting in ice water until 
the petals curl. 

Chicory. 

Chicory or endive is in the market all the year, 
and used for salad or to garnish with. 

Watercress. 

Watercress is most abundant in spring and summer, 
and is used for garnish for special dishes, and salad 
combined with eggs. 



164' SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beets. 

Wash beets carefully and avoid breaking skin, and 
do not have tops cuts too short. Cook in boiling water 
until tender. It will take three or three and one-half 
hours to cook them, according to size of the beet. Drain 
and plunge into cold water and remove the skins. Cut 
into slices or quarters. 

Sugared Beets, 

Use from four to six beets. Prepare as above, and 
after they are cut into slices, add two tablespoons 
butter, one tablesDoon sugar, salt and pepper to taste. 

Beets in Vinegar. 

Slice boiled beets thin. Season with salt, pepper 
and a little cayenne, and one-fourth cup sugar, with 
vinegar to cover. These are nice for^ salad garnish, 
and if you are going to use them in that way, it is 
well to leave them whole, in order that you can cut 
them in any shape desired as you use them. They 
make pretty three-leaf clover'^ for potato salad. 

Beets in Sour Sauce. 

Cook in boiling water until they are tender. Plunge , 
into cold water and remove skins. Cut into cubes or 
one-quarter-inch slices. Put into saucepan two table- 
spoons butter, one tablespoon flour, one-half cup vin- 
egar, salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Reheat the 
beets in the sauce, and serve. 

Beet Greens. 

Use the small beets about as large as a small marble ; 
clean and wash well. Boil in salted water until ten- 



VEGETABLES. 165 

der in a small quantity of water. Drain, rub, skins off 
the small foots, chop, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

Dandelion Greens. 

These are prepared same as the beets, and cooked in 
about the same way with exception of more water, to 
dilute the bitter taste which we find in the dandelion, 
and it is this bitter that makes it such a good spring 
tonic. 

Qreen or String Beans. 

Our native string beans appear in the market about 
the last of June. The ones we find in the market in 
the winter come from the South and California, and 
are not nearly so tender or so fine flavored on account 
of coming so far packed in crates and boxes. There 
are several varieties of the beans. Some grow on low 
bushes and some of them are runners. The low ones 
are known as the bunch and wax bean, while the run- 
ners are called the pole bean, and are trained on long 
poles. Some of the pole beans grow as long as a foot, 
and are very tender and fine for the table. The cran- 
berry variety is much sought after for the table. The 
white wax bean is very delicate and tender. In select- 
ing string beans try to get one with a round pad, as 
they are always more tender than the flat pod, and less 
of the woody fiber in outside pod. 

String Beans. 

Remove strings, snap or cut into inch length, wash 
in cold water, and put to cook in boiling water. Do 
not use too much water, or you lose the flavor of the 
bean, and also some of the green color which makes 
the dish attractive. Boil for two or three hours, ac- 



166 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

cording to the freshness of the bean. Season with salt 
after the first hour. "When tender, drain and season 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

String Beans with Bacon. 

Use a cube of bacon two inches square ; remove skin, 
cut into thin slices almost through, place in stewpan, 
and boil about fifteen minutes before you add the beans. 
String and cut the beans into inch lengths, wash and 
add to stewpan with the bacon, and simmer slowly for 
two hours, or until the water has cooked away, leaving 
the beans almost dry. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little cayenne. Serve the cube of bacon on top 
of beans. 

Shell Beans. 

The eran^bdrry bean is particularly fine ehelledv- 
Shell, wash and cook in boiling water for two hours. 
Cook slowly. Cook in small quantity of water, so there 
will be none to drain off when beans are done. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper. One pint of sweet com 
added to them ten minutes before serving is fine. 

Flageolets. 

The flageolet is a French product, and we get them 
canned. They are also dried, but the canned ones are 
the ones we use. They make a nice and pretty border 
for a fancy dish such as Chartreuse, They are im- 
proved by the addition of a little onion juice and 
minced parsley, added when the butter, salt and pepper 
are added. 

Lima Beans. 

Use as soon as possible after they are taken from 
the vine. Cook in boiling water until tender; it will 



VEGETABLES 167 

take about thirty minutes for the fresh, tender ones. 
Drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, and one- 
lourth cup thick cream makes them much better. The 
white wax\bean is nice seasoned this same way. They 
are called "wax beans in cream " or "lima beans in 
«ream. ' ' 

Peas. 

Peas contain a large per cent, of proteid, and when 
young are easy to digest, and are one of our most 
■delicious vegetables. Oiir own native peas, fresh from 
the viiies, are much better and more tender than the 
shipped ones. They appear in market about the first 
of June, except in the North, where they are later. 
The small, sweet peas are the best. We now find a 
T^ariety' known as the Telephone peas that are large 
and very sw'eet. ^These appear just after the early 
June. They have a large, flat pod, and are well filled. 
The marrowfat is a large pea, perhaps the largest, 
and is usually quite sweet. 

Creamed Peas. ^ 

Remove peas from pod and wash. The imperfect 
©nes will rise to the top when covered with water. 
Skin this off and drain the remaining ones. Cook until 
soft in a small quantity of boiling water, adding salt 
the last ten minutes of cooking,^ If the peas are young, 
they will cook tender in thirty minutes. Overcooking 
■will spoil them. Season with butter, salt and pepper, 
and to a pint of peas one-fourth cup thick cream. Add 
a little sugar if not sweet enough. 

Youne Peas in Butter. 

Use only very young, tender peas; shell them fresh, 
enough to make one and one-half pints. Put two table- 



168 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

spoons of butter into hot frying-pan, add peas, and 
shake constantly to keep them from browning. As soon 
as they are tender, season with salt and white pepper, 
and serve. These are fine. Asparagus tips can be 
treated the same way. 

Corn. 
The only corn to consider is the native sugar corn, 
although we find, it in the market as early as June. 
By the first of August it becomes abundant, and is sweet 
and fine for the table. Among the best varieties is 
the " Country Gentleman. " This is in the market by 
the last of July, and is fine and sweet. 

Boiled on the Cob. 

Remove the husks and silky threads that are on the 
corn, and cut into shape with sharp vegetable-knife. 
Cook in boiling water {without salt) for ten minutes, 
if the com is in the best condition, but if a little old, 
you may cook longer, but avoid too long fcooking. Serve 
folded in napkin on platter. . 

Succotash. 

Cook lima beans until tender, using just enough 
water so there will be none to drain off. When beans 
are tender and water cooked away, add equal amount 
of sweet corn cut from the cob, fresh. Place corn on 
top of the beans, cover and cook for ten minutes. Sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper. Stir until beans and 
corn are well blended, and serve in covered serving- 
dish. Instead of the lima bean, you can use the white 
wax bean, .or the green pole bean; also the dried navy 
bean. This is one : of the most delicious dishes that 
appears on our table, if properly prepared. Kentucky 
is where you find it fine. 



VEGETABI/ES. 169 

Corn Oyster. 

1 cup grated raw corn. % cup flour. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 

Grate corn, add flour and egg well beaten, salt and 
pepper enough to season rather highly. Drop by spoon- 
fuls, onto a hot, well-buttered griddle, or fry in deep 
fat. Care must be taken not to have them larger than 
a good-sized oyster. 

Fried Corn. 

Cut fresh sweet com from the cob. Put into hot 
frying-pan one tablespoon lard, one tablespoon butter; 
as soon as they are quite hot, add the corn cut and 
scraped frOmthe cob. This is done by first cutting a 
very thin cutting from the top of the grains of com, 
and with the back of knife press out the inside of the 
grain. Add this to hot fat, and stir with broad-bladed 
knife to keep it from burning, as the milk from the 
com will bum very quickly. This is fine with fried 
chicken. 

Corn Fritters. 

iVa cups corn. 1% teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup flour. % teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

If the corn is fresh, grate it; if canned, chop very 
fine. Add dry ingredients and yolks of eggs welt 
beaten, then the whites beaten stiff. Cook in frying- 
pan in hot fat, and drain on paper. 

AsparagJS. 

The asparagus is a salt-water plant, and the finest 
we have in the market is that which is washed by the 
sea every day. We read -that ages ago the Romans 
looked upon it as one of their most succulent and de- 



A'B GAS RANGES ''""' """""" 



people 



170 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



licious vegetables, and great care and attention were 
given by them to the cooking of it. Our best aspara- 
gus appears in the market about the last of April, and 
the large white varieties come from Oyster Bay. Fresh 
cut and tender, it will cook in about twenty minutes 
(great care should be taken not to cook it too long), 
and the heads (or tips) cook much quicker than the 
stalks, and for this reason we tie it up in uniform 
bunches and stand in stewpan heads up, so the steam 
«ooks them while the stalks are boiling in the salted 
boiling water. The -tough end of the stalk should be 
peeled. If this is done carefully, it makes the .entire 
stalk edible. 

Boiled Asparagus with Butter. 

Prepare as directed above. Cook in boiling salted 
water for twenty minutes, or untiF tender. Untie and 
season with butter, salt and pepper, about a tablespoon 
of butter to a bunch of asparagus. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Prepare same as the above. Have toast ready, and 
dip quickly in the water in which the asparagus was 
cooked. Place enough of the asparagus on each piece 
of toast for a service. 

Asparagus in White Sauce. 

Cut asparagus into inch lengths. Boil in salted 
water until tender. The heads will cook in less time 
than the stalk, and for this reason you leave them until 
the last ten minutes of the boiling, when you lay them 
in the boiling water with the stalk. Drain and add 
to a thin white sauee, and serve in crustards of bread. 



VEGETABLES. 171 

Crustards. 

Cut rounds of bread one ajid one-half inches thick, 
and shape with a knife by removing the center to 
form a cup. Fry in deep fat, or dip in melted butter 
and toast a golden brown in the oven. Fill with 
creamed asparagus. 

Asparagus a la HoUandaise. 

Prepare as directed. Tie in bunches and boil heads 
up in salted water until tender. Drain and pour over 
the tips a sauce HoUandaise. This is a nice vegetable 
course for a dinner. 

Asparagus with Poached Eggs. 

Prepare and boil in salted water until tender. Drain 
and arrange on squares of toast, dipped in the water — 
where the asparagus was cooked, and on each service 
put a nicely poached egg' and enough melted butter 
to season. This makes a nice dish for luncheon where 
meat is not served. 

Cucumbers. 

The cucumber as it grows fresh and crisp is the 

best form to serve it for the table, but it is often cooked. 

"We find it in the market all the year round, from the 

' garden during the summer months and hot-house and 

Southern markets during the winter. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. 

Select large cucumbers of uniform size, cut them 
into halves, and with a spoon and, the vegetable knife 
remove the seeds. Stand in cold water until crisp. 
Drain and fill with chicken .force-meat, using equal 



172 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

parts of minced chicken and soft crumbs. Season 
rather highly, using paprika, salt and white pepper, 
and moisten with egg. Place upright on a trivet, and 
half surround with white stock, and cook for three- 
quarters of an hour. A good way to keep them in posi- 
tion is to place them in small wire basket, and rest the 
basket on the trivet. 

Pried Cucumbers. 

Select cucumbers with very small seeds. Pare and 
slice in slices about one-fourth inch thick, season with 
salt and pepper, crumbs and egg, and fry in deep fat. 
This tastes something like eggplant, but not so good.~ 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

The salsify is an underground root, and is very nice 
to make a variety in the menu during the winter. To 
prepare it we wash, scrape and put it in cold water, 
with lemon juice or vinegar in the water to keep it from 
discoloring. 

Oyster Plant in Cream Sauce. 

Prepare as above directed, and rest in the acidulated 
water. Cut in one-half-inch slices, cook in boiling 
water until soft, drain, and add to thin white sauce. 

Oyster Plant Fritters. 

Grate the oyster plant, using a little lemon juice 
on it as you grate to keep from discoloring. Season 
with salt and pepper, and moisten with egg to bind it. 
Shape in small flat cakes, dredge with flour, and saute 
in hot butter. These are fine and not unlike an oyster 
in taste. Some boil the plants, then mash, but they 
are a much finer flavor made from the raw plants. 



VEGETABLES. 173 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips are not generally used on tables, but, if 
they are properly prepared, make a nice variety to 
the winter vegetable. They are a nice accompaniment 
to pork roast. They contain a large amount of woody 
fiber through the center, but this can be in a measure 
overcome by getting those that are young. To prepare 
them we wash, scrape and cut into pieces about one- 
fourth-iilch thick lengthwise. Cook in boiling salted 
water until soft. Then they are ready to serve in the 
ways one may desire. If they are to be served with 
the pork roast, they are sprinkled with salt, pepper 
and a slight sprinkling of sugar. Place them in the 
pan with the roast, and ba^te with the fat. v 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Wash them thoroughly and scrub with small vege- 
table-brush. Cook in boiling water until soft. Drain 
and place in cold water, when the skin will slip oif 
easily as it does ofE the beet. Mash and remove as 
much of the woody substance as possible. Season with 
butter, salt and pepper, a little sugar, and shape into 
fritters, and brown in equal parts of butter and lard. 

Sweet Peppers. 

It might be said that this is^"an age of peppers." 
They are used in every way possible, as an' additional 
flavor as well as for garnishing. They appear on all 
dishes that are planked, iu the salads, potatoes, toma- 
toes and omelets. Of course, only the sweet ones are 
used. To prepare them, you cut a slice from the stem 
end of each pepper, and remove all the seeds. Wash 



174 SCIENTIFIC. COOKING. 

in cold water, drain, and they are ready for you to 
use in any way you may wish. 

Stuffed Peppers — No, 1. 

6 green peppers. % cup tomatoes (strained).. 

1 small onion, finely 1 cup boiled rice, 
chopped. 2 tablespoons minced liam. 

2 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons buttered crumbs- 
1 cup chicken (minced). Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook onion in butter a fQw moments, add ham and 
minced chicken, and the rice and tomato. Thoroughly 
mix all the ingredients, and season to taste. Cool and 
fill the peppers that have been parboiled from eight to^ 
ten minutes. Cover the tops with buttered crumbs,.^ 
and place in a casserole or baking-dish. Add three- 
fourths cup of stock or water, place in oven, cOok for 
twenty minutes, and serve from dish in which they 
were cooked. 

Stuffed Peppers— No. 2. 

You can prepare same as above, and use three- 
fourths cup sauce, either brown or white, and, one-half 
cup bread crumbs instead of the rice, and cold lamb or- 
veal can be use'd instead' of the chicken. Mushrooms 
are an addition to either of these recipes. 

Spinach. 

Spinach is one of the most wholesome of the greens,. 
and some great writer (Curwen, I think) has said^ 
''They are to the stomach what a new iSroom is to a 
dirty room. ' ' It is obtainable in our market the year 
round, but we find the best in the spring or early sum- 
mer, grown outside. The flavor is finer and the color- 
much prettier. It is principally potash, salts and water. 



VEGETABLES. 175 

Boiled Spinach. 

Remove roots and wilted leaves. "Wash thoroughly 
in cold water, using two pans, lifting from one pan 
to the other, so as to free it from sand. You will find 
you will not get rid of the sand unless you lift each 
time to the second pan. Wash as long as you find 
sand in the pan. For young, tender spinach place in 
stewpan with one-half cup water and boil for twenty 
minutes, or until tender. The' old spinach requires 
one quartj water, and longer cooking, with salt in the 
water. As soon as tender, drain thoroughly, chop fine, 
and season with butter, salt and pepper. Place on 
serving-dish, and garnish with hard-boiled egg cut into- 
slices or quartered. Spinach cooked in plenty of water 
is greener than that cooked in its own juices, but is 
not so highly flavored. 

Spinach Purte.' 

Pick over and wash one-half peck spinach. Cook 
in plenty of boiling salted water until tender. One 
and one-half teaspoons soda added to the water while 
cooking improves the color (and have the vessel un- 
covered always in cooking spinach). Drain, chop fine, 
and rub through puree sieve. . Reheat, and season with 
three tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon flour, one 
teaspoon sugar, one-half cup thick cream. Garnish 
with hard-boiled egg and eroiitons of fried bread. 

Spinach a la Bechamel. 

Prepare one-half peck spinach, boiled, and chopped 
very fine. Put two tablespoons butter into hot omelet- 
pan, with two tablespoons of flour. Turn in the 
spinach, and season with salt and pepper, and stir thor- 



176 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

oughly and pour on gradually three-fourths cup thin 
• cream. G-amish with (egg yolks land white passed 
through potato rieer, and sprinkled over the top. 

^ Pumpkin. 

Pumpkin is either steamed or boiled to prepare, or 
it can be grated and used at once for pumpkin pie. 
In tjbe South they stir into corn bread one cup of the 
cooked pumpkin, or one cup of the grated pumpkin 
could be used in the same way. / 

Tomatoes. 

We have tomatoes the year round, but the best are 
those grown in the gardens that are obtainable from 
the middle of July, and are much better flavored than 
those grown in hotrhouses ' and used for winter eon- 
sumption. The price of the hot-house tomato is^very 
high. Tomatoes are brought from the South as early 
as April 15th, and these have very good color, but are 
rather tasteless, for the reason they are picked green, 
packed into baskets and the , baskets placed in crates. 
Each tomato is wrapped in thin paper, and in this .way 
they are ripened. If, in the fall of the year before the 
frost cOmes, you will pull up tomato vines filled with 
well-developed green tomatoes, and hang them in a 
warm cellar, roots up, with as much earth as possible 
on the roots, the tomatoes will ripen and be very good. 
There is quite a variety of tomatoes to choose , from 
during the summer. Some are much more solid, with 
less seed and more meat, than other varieties; these 
are the best to choose. The Acme is one of the choicest. 



VEGETABLES. 177 

' To Prepare Tomatoes. , 

Wipe,, place in a wire basket, and cover with boiling" 
■water. Let them stand until the skin will be easy to 
remove ; lift out and peel. Chill them, and, they are 
ready to serve as sliced tomatoes by cutting them into 
slices one-third of' an inch thick, and arrange in pretty 
form on a flat platter. Garnish with curly lettuce 
leaves, or you can cut the lettuce into ribbons, and 
border platter with it. '^ 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Wipe, pare, and cut into pieces. Stew for thirty 
minutes, being careful to stir frequently to keep the 
seeds from catching on the bottom of stewpah and 
burning. Season with butter, salt, pepper, sugar, and 
a few bread crumbs to thicken just slightly; flour can 
be used if liked better. 

Stewed Tomatoes k la Spanish. 

1 green pepper. 1 quart pared tomatoes, 

1 onion, cut fine. cut into small pieces. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
2 tablespoons flour. Dasb cayenne. 

Salt and white pepper. 

Cook pepper and onion in the butter, add the flour 
and seasonings, then the tomatoes; cook until done; 
it will take about thirty minutes, stirring frequently. 
This is very nice to serve with meat or fish, and is 
fine to use for macaroni or spaghetti. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

If fresh tomatoes are used, prepare in. the usual way, 
and slice in rather thick slices. Put in a well-buttered 
bake-dish a layer of, buttered cracker crumbs, then a 



178 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

layer of sliced tomato, sprinkled with salt, pepper and 
sugar, then a second layer of cracker crumbs, then to- 
matoes seasoned, finishing with buttered crumbs. Cook 
in hot oven for thirty minutes. If canned tomatoes, 
are used, drain them on- colander to free them from 
some of their juice, and proceed the same as above. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Wipe, leaving on the skin ; remove a thin slice from 
top and bottom, and cut into one-half-inch slices. Sea- 
son with salt and peppery dip into fine bread crumbs, 
and saute in hot butter. Lift up carefully with broad- 
bladed knife, place on serving-digh, and sprinkle slight- 
ly with powdered sugar. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Prepare same as above, and dip into crumbs, then 
in eggs, and back into the crumbs. Place on well-but- 
tered broiler, and broil until browned on both sides. 
It will take three or four minutes to each side. These 
are nice breakfast dishes, and are used to garnish meat 
and fish dishes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Use six nice, firm tomatoes; pare, remove seeds and 
pulps, sprinkle with salt, invert and let them rest on 
plate for half-hour. Cook two tablespoons butter with 
one finely chopped onion for five minutes. Add three- 
fourths cup finely chopped cold chicken, veal or lamb, 
three-fourths cup stale bread crumbs, and tomato pulp 
freed from the seeds. Mix all together and season with 
salt, pepper, one tablespoon sugar and a little cayenne. 
Cook all for about five minutes, then add one egg 
slightly beaten, and refill the tomato cups with the mix- 
ture. Place in well-buttered pan, sprinkle with but- 



TEQKTABLES. 17& 

tered crumbs, and bake in oven for thirty minutes.- 
Keep heat low enough so the crumbs brown, but do 
not burn. ' 

Deviled Tomatoes. 

4 tomatoes. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

3 tablespoons butter. Vi: teaspoon salt. 

3 teaspoons powdered sugar. 1 egg. 

Yolk one hard-boiled egg. Flour. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. Salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Peel and cut tomatoes in slices, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in hot butter. 
Kemove them to hot platter, and pour over them the 
<iressing made by creaming the butter and adding the 
dry ingredients, and the cooked egg rubbed to a paste, 
the egg slightly beaten and the vinegar. Cook over hot 
water rmtil it thickens, pour over tomatoes, and serve. 

Tomato Toast. 

Press one pint of prepared tomatoes through a 
sieve fine enough to catch the seeds. Place in sauce- 
pan, heat, and season with one tablespoon butter, one- 
half tablespoon suggr, salt and white pepper to taste. 
Make six pieces of toast, brown on both sides. Butter, 
place on hot platter. Just as you are ready to serve, 
add one cup of sweet cream to the tomatoes, and pour 
over the toast. 

Shrimp in Tomato Cups. 

Prepare tomatoes same as for stuffed tomatoes. 
Have shrimp prepared and seasoned with butter, salt 
and pepper. The shrimp can be broken or left whole, 
according to taste. Mix with them a little of the pulp 
chopped fine, and refill the cups, place in a casserole, 
and bake twenty minutes in oven. 



180 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



E 



CHAPTEE XVIII. 
ENTREES. 

NTREES are dishes served between any of the 
regular courses. They are the croquettes, tim- 
bales, fritters, etc. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

2 cups chopped chicken. 1 teaspoon parsley (minced). 

1 teaspoon lemon jiiice. 1 teaspoon minced celery. 

% teaspoon onion juice. A few grains cayenne. 

1 cup thick white sauce. Salt and white pepper. 

Add seasonings to chicken and chicken to sauce. 
Thoroughly mix and spread on pan to cool. Shape 
into croquettes. Crumb, egg and crumb again. Fry 
in deep fat, and drain on paper. Serve on hot platter 
on fringed napkin. 

Chicken and Mushroom Croquettes. 

Prepare same as chicken croquettes, using one and 
one-half cups chopped chicken meat and one-half cup 
chopped mushrooms. In preparing the meat and mush- 
'rooms for croquettes, it is nicer to use a pair of scissors 
and cut in fine bits instead of chopping. 

Chicken and Sweetbread Croquettes. 

1 cup minced sweetbreads. % cup nut meats, cut fine. 

1 cup minced chicken. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 cup thick white sauce. 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 teaspoon onion juice. Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Prepare same as chicken croquettes. Mix all in- 
gredients well together, cool, shape, crumb, egg, and 



A'JS GAS RANGES StyUs and Slz^s 

ENTRIES, 181 

crumb again, fry in deep fat and serve. Either wal- 
nut or pecan-nut meat can be used for these. 

Sweetbread and Chicken Cutlets. 

Use the sweetbread and chicken mixture, and shape 
into cutlets. Fry, drain, and with the point of a sharp 
knife insert into each a one-and-one-half-ineh piece of 
macaroni to represent the cutlet bone. Serve with thin 
white sauce made with chicken stpck instead of milk. 

Cheese Croquettes. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1% cups cream cheese, cut 
% cup flour. into cubes. 

% cup milk. Cayenne (d,ash). 

Yolks 3 eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Make a thick white sauce of the milk, butter, flour 
and yolks of the eggs. Remove from fite and stir in 
the pubes of cheese. Cool, cut into strips or, squares, 
dip into crumbs, egg, and crumb agaiii. Fry in deep 
fat, drain and serve as a cheese entree. 

Chestnut Balls. 

1 cup mashed French chestnuts. 3 yolks of eggs. 

3 tablespoons thick cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

14 teaspoon yanilla. 

Mix ingredients, shape into balls, crUmb and egg; 
fry in deep fat, and drain. 

Rice Croquettes. 

% cup rice. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup boiling water. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. Yolks 2 eggs. ' 

Wash rice in three waters, rubbing well with the 
hands. Put on iU; the cup of boiling water. Cook un- 



182 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

covered until the water is absorbed. Add milk and 
turn into double boiler. Cover and steam until rice 
is soft. Remove, add butter and yolks of eggs, cool, 
shape, crumb and egg; fry in deep fat, and drain. 
These are nice shaped like baskets, fried, and jelly or 
preserves served in them. Then they are used as a 
garnish ,for game or fowl. 

Lamb or Veal Croquettes. 

2 cups cold veal or lamb, A little onion juice. 

cut into cubes. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 cup thick white sauce. 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. 
1 yolk of egg. . 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 teaspoon minced celery. Salt, pepper and cayenne 

to taste. 

ilix meat with the seasonings, and add the cooked 
yolk of egg mashed very fine. Turn into the cup of 
white sauce, and add the uncooked yolk slightly beaten. ' 
The cup of sauce may be made with white stock from 
the veal instead of milk. These are shaped, crumbed, 
€gged and crumbed again, and fried in deep fat, then 
drained on paper and served with tomato sauce highly 
seasoned. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

Two cups flaked salmon, one cup thick white sauce, 
seasoned with one teaspoon lemon juice, dash of cay- 
enne, and salt to taste. Add sauce to salmon, then the 
seasonings. Spread on plate to cool, shape, crumb, 
egg, and cru^mb again ; fry in deep fat, drain and serve. 
Tomato sauce, seasoned with onion and green sweet- 
peppers, is nice served with these croquettes. 



ENTREES. 183- 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Two cups lobster meat cut fine, one cup thick white 
sauce, one-fourth teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, dash of cayenne, salt, and a little white pepper. 
Add seasonings to lobster, then add the white> sauce. 
Cool, shape, crumb, egg, and crumb again. 

The above mixture can be formed into cutlets, 
crumbed, egged and fried. Insert a tip from the en4 
of the small claw into each cutlet, stack round a mound 
of parsley or cress, and serve with Tartare sauce. 

Oyster Croquettes- 

Clean and scald one pint of oysters in their own 
liquor, drain thoroughly, remove the tough part, and 
cut soft part intp pieces. Make a thick sauce, using- 
one-half cup of the oyster liquor instead of milk, and 
one-half cup thick cream, yolk of one egg, and season 
with lemon juice, salt, pepper and paprika. A half 
cup of boiled macaroni or half cup of small, mushrooms 
cut fine can be added to the oyster meat before adding- 
the sauce. Cool, shape, crumb, egg, and crumb again. 
Fry in deep fat, and drain. 

Swedish Timbale Batter. 

% cup flour. % cup milk, 

1 teaspoon sugar. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon salad oil. % teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients; add milk slowly and beaten 
egg, then the olive oil. Use care that there are no 
lumps, and strain if there are lumps. Let it stand for- 
a short time, and shape with timbale iron. Heat 
fat until hot enough to fry uncooked food. Put iron 
into hot fat, deep enough to more than cover it, and 
let it remain until iron is hot. Lift it from the hot 



184 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

fat and allow it to drip an instant, then lower it into 

tatter three-fourths its depth. The batter will adhere 

to the hot iron. Immerse in the hot fat and fry to a 

golden brown, then drain on paper. The timbale cup 

Tvill drop^ easily from the iron as soon as cooked. As 

soon as you find it leaving the iron, turn the iron on 

the side to keep it from falling off. These little cups 

are nice for creamed chicken, oyster, fish, meats, or 

for a fruit course at the beginning of the meal. The 

Pontage and Eosetta irons are used in the same way. 

They answer the same purpose as the patty shell, and 

are much less trouble to get ready if time is short in 

■which we have to make ready. 
» 

Lobster Timbale. 

Sprinkle buttered small individual timbale moulds 
Tvith lobster coral rubbed through a strainer. Line 
the mould with fish force-meat. Fill center with 
•creamed lobster and cover with force-meat. Place in 
pan on folded paper. Half surround with hot water, 
■cover with buttered paper, and cook for twenty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Unmould and serve with 
Bechamel sauce. 

Chicken Timbale. 

Use breast and second joints of large chicken that^ 
will weigh three and one-half or four pounds, four eggs, 
and one and one-half cups thick cream. Grind chicken 
in me£it-grinder, beat the eggs, and add one at a time, 
stirring until the mixture is thoroughly smooth. Add 
the cream, which must be very thick. Season with 
salt, pepper and paprika. Turn into buttered timbale 
mould, and bake same as lobster timbale. Serve with 
Alamanda. 



ENTREES. 185 

Timbales are made with rice, spaghetti; macaroni, 
etci In rising the macaroni and spaghetti, you line the 
mould with them, first boiling until tender, then ar- 
range them either in lengths or by coiling them round 
the bottom and sides of the moulds, and fill them with 
either chicken or fish force-meat. They are all cooked 
in the same way, and seryed with some nice fish or meat 
sauce. 

Fritters. 

The fritters allcome under the head of entrees, and 
are served between courses, with different flavtored 
syrups and sauces. 

Fritter Batter I. 

1% cups flour. % cup milk. ' 

2 teaspoons baking-powder 1 egg. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk slowly, and then the 
egg unbeaten, and beat the whole mixture very hard 
to lighten the egg. 

Fritter Batter for Vegetables II. 

1 cup flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

% cup milk. M teaspoon pepper. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk slowly, then the eg^ 
beaten until very light. 

Batter ill. 
1 cup flour. 2 eggs, whites and yolks 

Vi teaspoon salt. beaten separately. 

% cup milk. 1 tablespoon olive oil. 

" Mix dry ingredients, add milk a little at a time, and 
beat rapidly to keep batter smooth. Add yolks beaiten 
until lemon color and thick, and whites beaten stiff, 
then the olive oil. 



186 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Apple Fritters I. 

Two tart apples pared, cored and cut into very thin 
slices, and stirred into batter I. Drop by spoonfuls 
into hot fat, and fry until a golden brown and th© 
apples are tender. Drain on paper and serve with hot 
lemon sauce. 

Apple Fritters II. 

Core, pare, and cut apples into one-quarter-inch 
slices, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, and rest 
them for half an hour. Drain and dip into batter L, 
and fry in hot fat. Drain, arrange on hot platter, and 
serve with hard sauce flavored with orange. 

Orange Fritters. 

Peel two oranges and separate into sections, using 
care to remove all the white outer covering. With a 
pointed knife remove the seeds. Dip the sections in 
batter, fry, and serve with wine sauce. 

Banana Fritters. 

3 bananas. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

% cup powdered sugar. 3 tablespoons sherry -wine. 

Batter I. 

Remove the skins, scrape all the astringent part from; 
the outside, mash very fine, and add sugar, wine and 
lemon juice. Pry in deep fat, drain, and serve with 
hot lemon sauce. 

Fruit Fritters. 

Fresh pears, apricots and peaches can all be used 
for fritters, by cutting them in slices or in round shape 
as the fancy may suggest, and the same batter will an- 
swer in any case. Fruit fritters are always served 



ENTKiES. 187 

Tvith a sauce that goes nicely with the kind of fruit 
the fritter is made from. Wine can be used in any 
fritter sauce. 

Cauliflower Fritters. 

Use cold boiled cauliflower, seasoned with salt and 
pepper aijd paprika, broken in nice-sized pieces to 
serve, and dipped- in batter II. Fry in deep fat and 
drain on paper. 

Tomato Fritters. 

31^ cups tomatoes. 1 onion, with 2 cloves stuck 

2 tablespoons sugar. in it. 

Dash cayenne. 1 tablespoon raw ham. 

1 teaspoon salt. %' cup butter. 

1/2 cup cornstarch. 

Cook tomato, onion, cloves, ham and sugar together 
in stewpan for fifteen rqinutes. Rub through a sieve 
and add seasonings. Melt butter, add cornstarch, and 
heat; add tomatoes slowly, cook a few moments, re- 
move from fire, and add a slightly beaten egg. Turn 
into buttered shallow tin pan and cool. When firm, 
"turn on board, and cut Into squares, strips or diamonds. 
Holl in crumbs, egg, and crumb again. Fry in deep 
iot fat, drain, and serve very hot. These are delicious. 

Clam Fritters. 

Use one pint of clams, two eggs, one and one-third 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking-powder, pepper and 
salt. Add baking-powder, salt and pepper to flour, 
then beat the eggs until very light without separating. 
Pour milk slowly on dry ingredients, beat until smooth, 
fold in egg, then add clams that have been drained of 
their liquor and chopped. Drop by spoonfuls- into hot 
fat, and fry. Drain on paper, and serve soon as cooked. 
Garnish with fried parsley. 



188 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Use one pint oysters, two tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons flour, three-fourths cup milk or white 
stock, yolks two eggs, one tablespoon finely minced 
parsley, one teaspoon grated horseradish, one teaspoon 
lemon juice, a little cayenne. Wash, drain and slightly 
chop oysters. Make the sauce with the butter, flour, 
milk (or stock), and add eggs, seasonings and oysters. 
Arrange in scallop shells, cover with buttered crumbs; 
and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until the 
crumbs are well browned, then serve. 

Deviled Crabs. 

Use one cup chopped crab meat, one-half cup finely 
chopped mushrooms, two tablespoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, one cup white stock, yolks two eggs. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, paprika and parsley, and one- 
fourth cup sherry wine. Make sauce with butter, flour 
and stock, add yolks of eggs and seasonings, then the 
crab meat and mushrooms. Pill crab shells rounding- 
full, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

Shad Roe, Tartar Sauce. 

Clean shad roe, and cook in boiling salted water,, 
with a tablespoon of lemon juice added, for twenty 
minutes. Plunge into cold water, drain, and remove 
all membrane and split in halves, brown in hot butter 
on both sides, and serve with Tartar sauce. This is 
much esteemed as an entree. 

Sweetbreads a la Spanish. 

For six Spanish peppers use one pair of sweet- 
breads, parboiled and cut into' small pieces ; two table- 



ENTBEES. ISa 

Spoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one cup chicken 
stock, one and one-half cups mushrooms cut intp small 
pieces, one-third cup thick cream. Make sauce with 
the butter, flour and stock, add the cream/ and season 
with salt, pepper and paprika. Cut a slice from the 
stem end of peppers, remove seeds, and parboil in 
salted water for fifteen minutes. Cool, fill and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Place in buttered baking-dish, 
or casserole. Pour around them a stock or sauce made 
with one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, one 
cup chicken stock, one-third cup thick cream ; season 
with salt, pepper and a. little onion juice. Bake until 
crumbs are well browned. Serve the sauce that is- 
round them with' each service of the peppers. This is; 
a fine dish. , 

Fillets of Chicken. 

Use fillets of two chickens, sprinkle with salt, dip 
in thick cream, roll in flour, and fry to a golden brown 
in hot lard. Place in a pan, and' bake for eight or ten 
minutes. Serve on a mound of boiled and seasoned 
riee,~with a thin white sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Cheese Fondue. 

1 cup soft bread crumlDS. Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 cup scalded milk. Whites 3 eggs. 

Ys pound cheese cut in, ' 1 tahlespoon hutter. 

small pieces. 2 pinches salt. 

Mix milk, bread crumbs, cheese, butter and salt; 
add yolks beaten until thick and lemon color. Fold in 
whites beaten sitiff. Bake in moderate oven in but- 
tered baking-dish for twenty minutes. 



A-B ENAMEL Gas RangBS^a'a "Chtna p'laZ 

• — : 

190 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Ramequins Souffles. 

Make same as cheese souffle, and bake in ramequin 
dishes. 

Cheese Souffles. 

% cup scalded milk. 1 cup grated cheese. 

2 tablespoons butter. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons flour, "Whites 3 eggs. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Melt butter, add flour, and slowly the scalded milk, 
then the seasonings and cheese. Remove from fire, and 
add yolks beaten until thick. Cool and fold in the 
-whites beaten until stiff. Pour in buttered dish, and 
bake twenty minutes in slow oven. 

Patties. 

Patty shells are filled with cr6amed sweetbreads, 
oysters, chicken and mushrooms ; oysters and mushrooms 
in white or brown sauce. These are all served in patty 
shell ast a course at luncheon or dinner. They are ar- 
ranged prettily on a fringed napkin, and garnished 
with cress, parsley, etc. 

Quail Pie. 

Remove the breast and legs from six quails. Season 
-with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in 
butter. To the butter in the pan add one stalk of celery, 
a sprig of parsley , cut fine and a few peppercorns. 
Cook for five minutes. Put the backs of the birds in 
stewpan with the butter and celery, cover with cold 
water, and simmer for one hour. Drain from bones and 
, «elery, and make a sauce for the pie by thickening with^ 
flour and butter rubbed together. Season with salt 
and pepper and a little white wine. Allow one bird 



ENTRfeS. 191 

for each person. Pour over the bird the sauce, and 
cover with a rich plain paste made with half butter 
and half lard. Bake to a crisp golden brown in oven. 
Serve with currant or cranberry .jelly. 

Aspic Jelly. 

Aspic jelly is always made with meat stock, and is 
used for elaborate enti^iees where fish, chicken, game, 
tongue, vegetables, etc., are combined in it, and served 
tinmoulded. 

Rule for Aspic. x 

- 1 tablespoon each of car- Yg teaspoon peppercorns. 
' rot, onion and celery. 1% cups white wine. 
Sprig parsley. 1 box gelatine. 

Sprig thyme. 1 quart white or brown stock. 

% a bayleaf. JuiCfe 1 lemon; 

, 1 clove. Whites 2 eggs. 

Put vegetables, seasonings, and one cup of the wine 
in saucepan. Cook for seven or eight minutes and 
strain. Add gelatine and^ lemon juice to stock. Heat 
to boiling-point, add liquor from the cooked vegetables, 
and set aside to cool. When cool enough, ?idd the. 
beaten whites of the two eggs diluted with some of the 
cooled stock. Stir eggs into the mixture and bring 
slowly to the boiling-point, then rest it on back of 
stove for ten minutes. Strain through chefl(secloth 
placed over a fine strainer. Add remaining one-half 
cup of wine, and aspic is ready to use for moulding 
anything you desire. 

Ton£:ue in Aspic. 

Use cooked tongue that has been skinned, roots re- 
moved and shaped by placing skewer in the end, whjeh 
you remove when it is cool and you find the shape will 



192 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

not change. Place a pan that best suits the shape of 
the tongue in ice-water, cover bottom witji brown, as- 
pic, and when firm decorate with cooked carrot, turnip, 
beets, egg whites, lelmon, parsley, or anything you like — 
one or two of either, or as much variety as you chooSe. 
Place them in and cover again with aspic, adding a 
little at a time with a spoon so as not to disarrange 
your vegetables. When the last addition becomes set, 
you place the tongue, and add slowly the remaining 
aspic. Chill thoroughly, turn on serving-dish, ;and 
decorate with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Tomatoes, stuffed olives, bii^d fruit and nuts, 
chickens boned, hard-boiled eggs, etc., are all served 
in aspic .ie^ly. The decoration should always be in har- 
mony with what is used. 

Salmon Moulded with Cucumber Sauce. 

1 can salmon steak. Yolks 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 teaspoon mustard. , % cup cream. 

'% tablespoon flour. 14 cup vinegar. 

A little cayenne. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, Mix dry ingredi- 
ents, and add egg yolks, vinegar and cream. Cook in 
double bailer until it is thick, stirring constantly. Add 
to the salmon that has been removed from the can, 
rinsed in hot water and broken into flakes. Fill in- 
dividual moulds and serve with cucumber sauce. It 
must be thoroughly chilled. ■ 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Beat one cup of double cream until stiff and firm. 
Season with salt and a little white pepper. Add gradu- 



ENTBiES. 193 

ally two tablespoons of lemon juice and one large or 
two small cucumbers, cut the long ways and seeds re- 
moved, chopped and drained. This is a fine fish course 
for a hot day. , 

Birds in Aspic. 

Clean, bone, stuff and truss liirds. Steajn over the 
body bones or ro&st ; steaming over the bones is .the. best 
way. Put a mould in pan of ice-water, and cover bot- 
tom of pan with aspic. When firm, garnish with truf- 
fles, egg custard sliced thick, and cut into fancy shapes. 
Arrange in any design you fancy. Add aspic by spoon- 
fuls that they may not be displaced. When the mix- 
ture is set to the depth of one inch, place in the, birds 
breasts down. Should you wish to decorate sides of 
mould, dip pieces in the .jelly and they will stick to 
the sides of pan. A.dd remaining mixture gradually. 

' Egg Custard. 

■ Beat yolks of two eggs slightly, and add one-fourth 
cup milk' and a few grains of salt. Strain into a small 
buttered mould and place in boiling water until the 
custard is firm. Beat whites slightly; cook the same 
way until firm. Turn from mould and cut into fancy 
shape, and use to decorate dishes in aspic. A great 
many nuts are used fctr aspic dishes, and are a great 
addition as well as nutritious. 

Creamed Lobster. 

1% cups ctopped lobster % teaspoon paprika. ^ 

meat. 2 eggs, whites and yolks 



'1 tablespoon butter. , beaten separately, 

i tablespoon flour. % cup 'thin cream. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



194 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Make sauce with butter, flour, seasonings and cream. 
Add yolks of eggs and lobster meat, and stir well, tlien 
fold in the beaten whites. Fill buttered moulds three- 
fourths full, set in pan of hot water with, a piece of 
folded paper under the moulds, and cover with but- 
tered paper. Place in oven and cook until firpi. Serve 
with lobster sauce. 



NUTS. 195 



CHAPTEE XIX, 
NUTS. 

NUTS have grown in popularity as their food value 
becomes better understood. They should frequently 
appear upon the table of every home, for they are 
both nutritious and wholesome. The almond, walnut, 
hickory-nut, pecan, chestnut and jjeanut are all de- 
sirable for home consumption. They are used in salads, 
sauces, candies, custard, cream, ice-cream, gela|tines, etc. 

Chestnuts. 

TO SHELL.. 

Put a teaspoon of butter into a frying-pan, and 
when melted turn in two or three cups of chestnuts 
which have been cross-cut on the fiat side. Shake the 
pan to butter the chestnuts, and piace in the oven for 
five minutes. When taken out the shell and brown 
skin should be easily removed. Use a small vegetable- 
Iqiife to prepare them. 

Boiled Chestnuts. 

Remove the shells, and cook in boiling water for ten 
minutes. Skim them (uat, and the brown skin should 
come off easily. They can again be placed in the boiling 
water and cooked until tender when pierced with a 
fork or skewer; they can then be served whole or 
mashed. They are seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, 
and cream if desired. They are also added to stuffing 
for chicTien, turkey and veal. 



196 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

To Blanch Almonds. 

Remove shells, pour boiling water over them, and 
allow them to , stand for a short time. Pour off hot 
water and add cold, when the skins should rub off 
easily. 

Roasted Almonds. 

Spread blanched almonds on a tin and place in oven, 
and brown to a light golden brown. 

Salted Almonds. 

Blanch one-fourth pound of Jordan almonds, dry 
them on a towel, add one tablespoon of good olive pil, 
and stir well that each almond is coated with the ojl. 
Place in oven and brown to a golden brown. Reinove 
"to brown paper and shake salt on them, and stir until 
all are salted. If too salt, wipe them on napkin to 
remove some of the salt. , 

Salted Peanuts. 

Buy the peanuts that have not been roasted. Re- 
move skins and prepare same as almonds. 

Salted Pecans. 

, The best way to buy them is to procure those that 
are removed from the shell, as they ' are hard to 
shell without breaking. Prepare them same as 
almonds, using care not; to l«ave them in the oven 
too long. As they have the brown skin, it will be harder 
to tell when they are done. The best way is to taste one. 

Peanut Butter. 

Shell and remove inner brown skin of roasted pea- 
nuts ; grind in the meat-chopper, using the finest cutter, 



NUTS. 197' 

then rub to paste in bowl and wooden pestle. Add/ 
enough butter gradually to make the peanut meat cling 
together. Season with salt and paprika, and pack in 
covered tumblers to use as needed. It is especially fine 
mixed with chopped figs for sandwiches. 

Chestnut Preserves. 

Cover blanched chestnuts with boiling >vater, and 
simmer slowly until tender ; it will take from one and 
one-half to two hours. Weigh the nuts before cooking, 
and make syrup of sugar and water- same in weight as 
nuts. Cook syrup \mtil thick. Add nuts and cook for 
one and one-half hours. Strain out nuts, and reduce 
syrup. Place chestnuts in glass jars. Flavor ijyrup 
with vanilla, reduce until very thick, and pour over 
the nuts. This makes a very rich preserve, and is used 
in pudding sauces, pudding, etc. 

Chestnut Cup. 

Use one tablespoon of preserved chestnuts cut into 
slices, with a little of the syrup in bottom of a sherbert 
glass; Put in a spoonful of vanilla ibe-cream with 
whipped and flavored cream on top. 

Nut Cutlets. 

2 cups soft bread crumbs. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup nut meat. Va teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons butter... %, teaspoon pepper. 
2 tablespoons flour. 1 egg. 

■A little paprika. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt and pepper, then the 
milk slowly. Stir until boiling, then remove from flre, 
add the beaten egg, stir until the egg is set, then add 
the nut meat and the, fine crumbs. Mix thoroughly and 



198 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

turn onto plate to cool. Shape into cutlets. Crumb 
and egg. Fry in deep, hot fat, drain on paper, and 
place a two-inch length of plain boiled macaroni in 
small end of each cutlet. Serve with tomato sauce. 
Pecan-nuts, wahiuts or our native hickory-nuts may be 
used for these cutlets. 

Nut Omelet. 

, 14 cup ground nuts. , Yi teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs. % teaspoon paprika. 

3 tablespoons water. Butter size of walnut. 

Beat eggs, after separating yolks, until lemon color 
and thick, and whites very stiff. Add salt, paprika 
and nut meat to yolks, and mix well, then fold in the 
whites, and in hot omelet-pan put the piece of butter, 
and with knife butter bottom and sides of pan. Turn, 
in the eggs and spread on pan, and cbok slowly,' shak- 
ing so the omelet does not burn. When well set, fold 
and turn on hot platter. Garnish and serve at once. 



EGGS. 199 



CHAPTER XX. 
EQQS. 

EGGS are considered a typical food for both the 
sick and well, from the fact that they contain 
the elements required in the proportions necessary to 
support the body, but, on account of their food value 
being in such a concentrated form, it is always neces- 
sary to combine them with some carbonaceous food to 
give bulk in the stomach to produce the proper action 
to cause digestion. For this reason we serve potatoes 
and rice, or some food rich in starch. A pound of eggs 
, (nine eggs) is considered the equivalent in nutritive 
value to a pound of meat or a pound of cheese. From 
this standpoint you can see that eggs can be used by 
the economist when they sell at twenty-five cents per 
dozen, as it is considered that seven eggs are all that 
is necessary for a day, combined with the starchy food. 
Eggs want to be strictly fresh for cooking, to have good 
results. Eggs, after the first twenty-fOur hours, deteri- 
orate. Owing to the shell being porous, the water passes 
off through the pores, air rushes in to replace the vacu- 
um, and this wilB soon produce decomposition. In the 
white of the egg albumen is found in its purest form. 
Eggs always want to be cooked at a low degree of heat, , 
for the reason that albumen will coagulate at a tem- 
perature of from 135° to 160° F., ,and, if cooked too 
quickly, they become tough and hard to digest. In the 
composition of the egg we find: 

Proteid, 14.9%. -Mineral matter, 1%. 

Fat, 10.6%. Water, 7S.5%. 



200 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Boiled Egsrs. 

This is the simplest form of cooking the egg. Have 
a saucepan of boiling' water, and lower the egg into 
the water with a spoon so as not to crack the shell. 
Remove the saucepan to back of stove where they keep 
hot, but do not boil. Cook for eight or ten minutes 
if liked soft, or thirty-five to forty if liked hard. If 
you want to use them to decorate where the whites 
are used, let them boil up for an instant and you can 
peel them without breaking the whites. In using hard- 
boiled eggs for making dishes, plunge them into cold 
water as soon as they are done, to kisep the yolk from 
discoloring. To cook boiled eggs perfectly they want 
to be kept at a uniform temperature, about 175° F. 

To Poach Eggs. 

Use a shallow pan and fill full enough to have the' 
water cover the eggs, allowing a teaspoon of salt to 
a quart of water and a teaspoon of lemon juice or 
vinegar, lemon juice preferred. "When the water is 
boiling, stir it round and round, and drop the, eggs 
in one at a time, breaking each one in a cup, using 
care not to disturb the membrane covering the yolks. 
Do not allow the water to boil, and as soon as there is. 
a film over the top and whites are set, they are done. 
Remove them with a buttered skimmer, and slip onto a 
round of buttered toast and trim the white into shape. 
Let each person season eggs to suit their individual 
tastes. , Eggs can be poached in egg-poacher or muffin, 
rings if preferred. Butter them before dropping in 
the eggs. ' , / 



EGGS. 201 

Poached Eegs with Mushrooms. 

Saute slices of fresh mushrooms in butter, and place 
on toasted bread. Moisten all with some thick cream, 
arrange a poached egg on each mushroom, and serve 
with a cream sauce. 

Begs Poached in Tomato Sauce. 

Poach eggs and arrange on hot platter without 
toast, and pour over all a highly seasoned tomato 
sauce. 

Poached Eggs in Potato Shells. 

Scrub and rinse six large potatoes of uniform size, 
and place in' the oven to bake. As soon as they are 
soft cut slice from top, and with a spoon scoop out the 
inside and mash, and season as for mashed potato, 
adding the whites of two eggs l^eaten very light. Line 
the potato shells with mixture, leaving room in center 
of each shell for a dropped egg. Cover with the po- 
tato mixture and. bake until brown. This is a dish 
with the proteid and carbonaceous food combined, and 
will serve nicely for tea or luncheon where no meat 
is served. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

For six eggs iise two tablespoons of butter, isix 
tablespoons of milk, and six pinches of salt. Break 
the eggs in a bowl, add the salt, but do not heat them. 
Put butter and milk into frying-pan, and as soon as the 
milk begins to bubble turn in the eggs, and with a 
spatula lift the eggs from bottom of pan as they set, 
allowing the uncooked egg to run to bottom of pan. As 
soon as all are set, but still creamy, turn onto hot 
platter and garnish with parsley. A border of, chipped 
beef in cream is nice served with these eggs. 



202 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Eggs Poached in Milk. 

Use half milk and half water. Butter the pan be- 
fore pouring in the milk and water, then proceed same 
as for any poached egg. The milk keeps the egg white 
and also adds to nutritive value of the egg. 

Shirred Eges. 

Butter an egg-shirrer and dust sides and bottom 
with cracker crumbs. Heat, break an egg in a cup, 
and slip into shirrer so as not to break yolk. BaJie 
in moderate oven until white is firm. Sprinkle but- 
tered crumbs on top if liked, and allow them to brown. 
It is well to rest the shirrer on pie-tin, to be more 
easily removed from oven when done. 

Eggs and Ham on Toast. 

Make rounds of toast, and on each round place a 
thin piece of cold boiled ham, and on top of each put 
a dropped &gg. Serve with a sauce made of one cup 
of tomatoes strained, one cup of cream, one table- 
spoon of butter and two tablespoons of flour. This 
is fine. 

Eggs (Waldorf Style). 

, Arrange poached eggs on round of buttered toast, 
with a sauted mushroom cap on top of each egg. Sur- 
round with brown mushroom sauce. — Miss Farmer. 

Scrambled a la Creole. 

Make a cup and a half of tomatoes (without strain- 
ing) into a thick sauce, seasoned with butter, onion, 
sugar, salt and cayenne. Scramble six eggs after rule 
for scrambled eggs. Turn onto hot platter and pour 
round the sauce. Garnish with parsley. 



EGGS. 203 

Scrambled Eggs with Anchovy. 

Spread the thin toast with Anchovy paste, and ar- 
range on the hot platter and cover with scrambled, 
eggs. 

Eggs k la Buckingham. 

Prepare six pieces of toast dipped in thick cream, 
for an instaat. Arrange on platter and cover with 
scrambled eggs, having the ^egg quite soft. Sprinkle' 
over all one cup of grated . cream cheese. Place in 
oven to melt the cheese, and finish cooking the eggs. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Put tablespoonful of butter into hot omelet-pan,, 
and brown as many eggs as you wish, adding butter 
as you need it; turn eggs while cooking. Use care not 
to have too much butter. 

Buttered Eggs with Fried Tomatoes. 

Cut tomatoes in slices for frying, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and saute in butter. Place on hot dish 
with a well-shaped buttered egg on each slice of tomato. 

Eggs Shirred in Batter. 

Make batter with two tablespoons thick cream, t'v^O' 
tablespoons stale bread crumbs, and pinch of salt. Mix 
cream, crumbs and salt. Put part of the mixture in 
bottom of buttered shirring-dish, slip in the egg, and 
put remaining mixture on top, using care in spreading- 
it not to disturb yolk. 

' Eggs au Qratin. 

Arrange poached eggs on a shallow buttered baking- 
dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and pour over all 



204 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

a Bechamel sauce. Cover with stale buttered crumbs, 
and sprinkle again with cheese. Brown in oven. 

Fried Esss. 

Fried eggs are cooked without turning, either in 
hot lard, butter or fat from bacon or ham. In using 
theineat fats, in either ease when the meat is cooked 
pour off the fat, rinse out the brown sediment from 
the bottom of pan, returning the fat, and breaking 
the egg in cup and slipping in as soon as the fat is hot. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Use four hard-boiled eggs, one cup thin white sauce, 
one cup minced cold meat, and one! cup buttered 
crumbs. Chop egg finely. Sprinkle bottom of buttered 
bake-dish with crumbs. Cover with half the eggs, the 
eggs with the sauce, sauce with the meat, and repeat. 
Cover top with the remaining crumbs, place in oven, 
and cook long enough to brown the crumbs. 

Curried Egg. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. % tablespoon minced onion. 

2 tablespoons butter. y-> teasposn salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. % teaspoon paprika. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon curry powder. 

Mix curry, flour and seasonings. Cook onion a few 
moments in butter, add flour and seasonings, then the 
milk slowly. Cook a few moments, and add the eggs 
cut into quarters; reheat, and serve with rice border. 

"Planlied Eggs." 

One cup cold , cooked corned beef or tongue, and 
equal quantity of fine bread crumbs. Moisten with 
cream, and season with salt and pepper. Spread mix- 



EGGS. 205 

I 

ture on plank and make nests, and border of duchess 
potatoes, using pastry-bag and rose tube. Put a pbached 
egg in each nest, and pijt in oven to brown potatoes. 
Garnish with halves of broijed tomatoes and parsley. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Use six hard-boiled eggs cut in halves crossways. 
Eejmove yolks and mash to a paste. (This can be best 
and quickest done by putting them through a potato- 
ricer.) Season with one-fourth cup grated cheese, 
one teaspoon lemon juice, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
salt and cayenne. Add enougli oil or melted butter 
to make the mixture shape easily. Make balls size 
of original yolks and refill each white. These can be 
served arranged on serVing-dish with a thin white 
sauce poured round and reheated,, or served cold on 
a bed of parsley or watercress, or wrapped in pairaf- 
fin paper and used for lunch or picnics. 

Bess in Ramequins. 

5 hard-boiled eggs. V2 cup milk. 

iy2 tablespoons butter. '% cup grated cheese. 

lYs tablespoons flour. Salt and cayenne. 

% cup white stock. 1 cup buttered crumbs. 

Chop eggs finely and mix with salt and cayenne. 
Make a sauce with butter, flour, stock and milk. Add 
chopped eggs. Pill buttered ramequin dishes, sprinkle 
with cheese and buttered crumbs. Cook in moderate 
oven until crumbs are browned. 

Eggs with Cliicken. 

Cut hard-boiled eggs lengthwise. Remove yolks, 
and lay whites aside in pairs. Mash yolks to a smooth 
paste, and add equal amount of the minced chicken. 



206 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Moisten all with a Mayonnaise dressing. Fill whites, 
using one piece for a cover ; press together closely. Use 
as a salad. 

Egg: Souffl6. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons flour. 5 eggs. 

1 cup cream. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash cayenne or ^ teaspoon paprika. 

Cream butter, ad(J flour, and pour on ' gradually 
scalded milk and cream. Cook in double boiler five 
minutes, and add yolks of eggs beaten until thick and 
light in color. Eemove from fire, add seasonings, and 
fold in the whites that have been beaten stiff and dry. 
Turn into individual moulds, set in pan of hot water, 
and bake in slow oven until firm. Serve with white 
sauce highly seasoned with paprika and onion juice. 

OMELETS. 

To be successful with egg omelets one wants to have 
an omelet-pan that is used for omelets only. Aluminum 
is the best for the purpose, but you want the heavy 
pan, so as to cook the omelet slowly and not bum. 

Plain Omelet. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoons water. 
3 pincbes salt. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Separate eggs, . putting yolks in bowl and whites 
on platter. Add one pinch of the salt to the whites 
and two to the yolks. (A pinch of salt is what you 
take up between the thumb and forefinger.) Beat 
whites until stiff and dry, and yolks until lemon color. 
Add water to yolks, and beat it well in. Add whites, 
cutting and folding until well mixed with yolks. Have 



EGGS. 207 

omelet-pan hot and butter well sides and bottom. Turn 
in the mixture and spread evenly, and place on range 
where it will cook slowly. Shake and turn the pan 
that the omelet may brown evenly. When well puffed 
and browned on bottom, you can slip in the oven to 
cook the top. Fold and turn on a hot platter, and 
serve with broiled ham or bacon for a garnish, or with 
any kind of sauce you may think best. In serving 
with the bacon or ham, they are placed round the front 
of the omelet, and bunch of parsley or cress at back 
for a garnish. 

Omelet a la 'Creole. 

Make a plain omelet and fold in tomatoes cut into 
cubes, seasoned and drained until they are quite dry, 
using a cupful to an omelet, and garnish with sauted 
slices of tomato, with a little sugar sprinkled on them. 

Omelet a la Spanish. 

Prepare a plain omelet and serve with Spanish 
sauce poured around it after it is folded and turned 
onto hot platter 

Spanish Sauce. 

Cook two tablespoons of butter, one onion and one 
sweet Spanish pepper cut fine until onion is a golden 
brown, then add two tablespoons of flour, one cup of 
unstrained tomatoes, and one-half cup of mushrooms 
cut fine. Season with salt, pepper, a little sugar and 
cayenne, and one tablespoon of capers. Cook until 
quite thick. The best way is to prepare the sauce 
before the omelet, in order to serve the omelet quickly. 
"Remember the guest must always wait on the omelet, 
omelet never on "the guest." 



^08 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Prepare a plain omelet, and before folding sprinkle 
with one cup of grated cream or Parmesan cheese. 
Fold and serve quickly. 

Omelet with Meats or Vfegetables. 

Prepare and cook plain omelet, and use any cold 
meat or fowl you may have on hand, or you can use 
pieces of asparagus, cauliflower, or cup of peas, that 
are cooked and left over. Also flaked flsh mixed with 
a little cream and seasoned nicely, only using very 
thick cream or a little white sauce. 

Nut Omelet, Caramel Sauce. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. Pinch of salt 

3 tablespoons caramel. Vanilla to flavor. 

Prepare same as plain omelet, using the caramel 
instead of the water to dilute the eggs. Put butter 
size of a walnut into hot omelet-pan, and cover bottom 
of pan with blanched and shredded almonds. Turn in 
mixture, cook, turn and fold. Serve with carainel sauce. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Pour cup of sugar into frying-pan and place on 
hot part of range. Stir and cook until melted to a 
light brown syrup. Add quickly three-fourths of a 
cup of hot water, arid simmer for eight or ten minutes. 

Omelet Confection. 

Prepare same as plain omelet, only using a pinch 
of salt, and two tablespoons of powdered sugar. Spread 
with jelly made soft by warming just before you fold. 
After it is turned on the omelet plate, sprinkle with 
powd«red sugar and pour on one-fourth cup of ,_rum, 
light, and send to table as it burns. 



PASTRY. 2v09 



CHAPTER XXI. 
PASTRY. 

IN serving pastry at our table great care wants to 
be taken in the preparation of it that it be light, 
flaky and tender. 

To the pastry belongs the puff paste and the plain 
paste. The making of puff paste is looked upon as 
a great task, and is rarely attempted by the amateur, 
but when made at home of the best creamery butter 
there is no doubt about the, quality and digestibility 
of the paste, and as soon as one gets the method in 
hand she no longer looks upon it as such a great task. 
To be successful, one has to be a rapid worker with 
a light touch. It must be made in a cold room. 

For making pastry, one wants pastry flour and 
well-chilled shortening. If butter is used, it wants 
to be the best; if lard, only the leaf, kettle-rendered 
will give good results. ^ The lightness depends upon 
the amount of cold air folded in as you roll and fold. 
This air coming in contact with the hot. air of the 
oven expands and lightens the paste. While the flaki- 
ness depends upon the kind and amount of shortening 
you use, butter gives the best flavor, but the lard 
makes the tenderest crust,' at much less expense. For_ 
puff paste we only use butter, and wash it to free it 
of salt and buttermilk. Butter, when properly pre- 
pared, is of a waxy consistency, and rolls easily into 
layers after it is folded into the dough. 



A-B GAS RANGES """^ " '^'^ 



■ Styles and Sizes 



210 SCIENTIPIC COOKING. 



Puff Paste. 

1 pound flour. 1 pound butter. 

Pinch of salt. Ice-water. 

Wash butter and work it under the water in a soft 
linen napkin, changing the water once. Lift it out 
and pat until all the water has gone. Reserve two 
tablespoons and shape the other into an oblong piece 
and place on the block of ice. Chop the two table- 
spoons into th*e flour or rub in with the tips of fingers. 
Moisten to a dough soft enough to roll easily. Knead 
a few moments to make it elastic so it rolls and holds 
the butter in its fold. A good pastry-maker will not 
see the butter after she encloses it in the dough. Pat 
and roll the dough on the board to one-fourth of an 
inch in thickness; keep it a little wider than long, and 
the corners square. Place butter in center of square 
of dough, fold the sides each to center, and press 
them well together. Fold one end over and one end 
under the enclosed butter. Press edges firmly together 
to enclose as much air as possible. Turn half-way 
round cover, and let it stand for five minutes. Pat 
and roll again to one-fourth inch in thickness, keeping 
it longer than wide, and lifting often to be sure it is 
not sticking, each time dredging the board with flour. 
Fold from open end toward the center, making three 
layers. Rest again f or „ five minutes. Continue this 
rolling and folding for four times, then fold from 
each end to center, making four folds. 'Press edges 
well together, and chill on tin placed between pans of 
crushed ice. When thoroughly chilled it is ready to 
be shaped into patty shell. • Vol-au- vents or fancy 
shape to garnish with. -It should be kept wrapped in 
paraffin paper and put in tin. pail. Cover closely and 



PASTRY. 211 

place in ice-box, using care not to spoil the layers you 
have rolled in, by doubling them. Mrs. Ewing is 
the best, puff-paste maker ever on the American stage. 

To Bake Puff Paste. 

Puff paste requires great care in the baking. The 
oven must be hot, and the paste placed on a tin sheet 
covered with brown paper, and put in oven where it 
will get the most heat, on the bottom to make it rise. 
"When it has risen to its full height, add more fire and 
brown on top, being careful not to burn the bottom. 
It must have a hot oven if you want it to puff. In a 
hot oven it puffs and is flaky; in too cold an oven it 
spreads and is greasy. The temperature for baking 
-patty shell wants to be about same as for baking- 
powder biscuits. Vol-au-vents require hot oven at 
first, then reduce to keep top from burning. The gas 
stove is the thing for this kind of cooking, for the 
reason that we can control the heat perfectly. 

Patty Shells. 

Roll paste, to one-fourth ' inch thick, and shape with 
patty cutter, first dipping it in flour. Then with a 
small cutter remove a round from center of one-half 
the round. Brush the whole round with ice-watel* 
round the edges, and press the piece with the center 
removed on top. Press lightly. Place on a towel and 
chill between pans of crushed ice, until paste is very 
cold and stiff. Cover tin or iron sheet with brown 
paper, and place the patty shell on and bake in hot 
oven for twenty-five minutes. They should rise to their 
full height and begin to brown in fifteen minutes. The 
small rounds cut from centers of the ring can be baked 



212 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

and used for patty cover. Should there be any soft 
dough in center of shells, lift it out carefully with 
pointed knife. 

Vol-au-vents. 

Roll puff paste to one-third of an inch thick. Mark 
an oval on the paste with cutter or mould for the pur- 
pose. Cut out with a sharp knife first dipped in flour. 
Brush near the edge with cold water, and put on a 
rim three-fourths of an inch wide. Press lightly, chill 
and bake in hot oven. The piece cut from center of 
the top should be rolled to one-fourth inch, shaped, 
baked and used for cover for vol-au-vent. To bake, 
place on sheet with paper beneath, and bake for three- 
quarters of an hour. The cover will be done first, and 
must be removed as soon as it is a good brown. 

Flaky Paste. 

2 cups flour. Vs cup each lard and 

Vs teaspoon salt. butter. 

Ice-water. 

Wash butter in napkin. Pat all water and butter- 
milk out by patting between the hands. Add salt to 
flour, and chop, in lard with knife or one-bladed hash 
chopper. When it is chopped enough it will look like 
coarse cornmeal, then add water little at a time so as 
not to get it too soft. Toss on floured board, pat and 
roll to oblong shape, and fold in butter same as for 
puff paste. Fold to make the three layers turn half 
round, pat and roll, repeat for three or four times, 
and it is ready for use. 

Plain Paste. 

2 cups flour. % cup lard. 

Y2 teaspoon salt. Cold water. 



PASTRY. 213 

Chop in the lard, add water to ijiake a paste that 
will roll easily, toss on floured board, pat and shape, 
and it is ready for nse. It is always an improvement 
to paste to fold a few times and rest the paste, and cut 
with knife and keep paste in layers; it will be more 
flaky and light. Cut pieces from end, and shape with 
rolling-pin into pieces large enough to cover the pie-tin 
easily, as you should not stretch pie paste, but instead 
lift and let all air from under and flU into the pan 
as much as it will hold before trimming off the edges. 
Add. the filling. Wet the edges, put on top, and press 
together with the fingers or a pastry-jagger made for 
the purpose. Some chefs use the best beef suet, ren- 
dered and . mixed with lard for shortening. 

Entire Wheat Paste for Salads. 

1 cup of entire wheat flour. % cup butter. 

% cup white pastry flour. % cup lard. 

1 teaspoon salt. Cold water. 

Add salt to fl,our, and mix all well together. Chop 
in the lard and butter. Water to make a paste. Eoll 
to one-fourth inch thick, cut into flmger-shaped pieces, 
and brush with egg white and little water. Sprinkle 
with chopped nuts and serve with salad. 



214 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXII. 
PIES. 

PAST:^ for pies should be rolled to one-fourth- of 
an inch thick, always rolling the piece larger than 
the pan to allow for the shrinking in the baking. In 
dividing the paste allow more for the upper than the 
under prust. Perforate the upper crust that the steam 
may escape. The method is left to the taste of the 
cook. There is a funijel which we find on the market 
supposed to act as a flue to carry off the steam from 
the fruit pie that is so har(i t6 keep from cooking over 
in the oven. Flat rims should be cut in strips from 
one-half to three-fourths of an inch wide, and the under 
crust be brushed with cold water before placing the 
rim on, and flute the rim with pastry- j agger or with 
the fingers. The pastry-jagger gives a very nice scal- 
loped edge to the paste. When juicy fruits are used 
to fill the pie-tins it is hard to brown the under crust, 
and many remedies have been resorted to, such as 
brushing the inside of the crust with white of egg, etc., 
but the best way out of the difficulty is the baking of 
an under crust first, then filling with cooked and sweet- 
ened fruit. The best methods of cooking the under 
crust is to invert a pie-tin cover outside with the crust 
and bake ; return to inside of the pie-tin, fill and place 
on top crust, and cook until top is nice and brown, or 
the fruit may be cooked and sweetened; and bake a top 
crust by cutting a piece of the paste a trifle larger 
than the tin and pricking with a fork. Place in oven 



PIES. 215 

and bake to nice brown. Place the bottom crust on 
plate, fill and put on top crust. I simply suggest this 
as one of the methods they gave us in the school, but 
I myself prefer to have the fruit put jn the pan un- 
cooked, and cook and bake crust at same time. And 
I find, by having the heat strong to begin with to puff 
the paste, and lower as soon as the paste is well puffed 
before it begins to brown, that I can cook both paste 
and fruit together and have a better pie. ^ 

For baking pies I find there is nothing better than 
the aluminum pans. They bake better and burn less. 
The perforated pan will bake under crust better, and 
for this reason they are best, as pastry, to be healthy, 
wants to be well baked. In making a fruit pie, when 
the fruit is highly flavored use no additional flavor, 
but let each fruit give to the pie its own distinctive 
flavor. 

Apple Pie. 

3 good-sizedtart apples. Pinch of salt. 

% cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour or % 

1 tablespoon butter. tablespoon cornstarch. 

Pare, core and cut the apples into very thin slices 
by 'fii^st cutting them into quarters, 'then into slices 
as thin as possible. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt, 
and stir into the sliced apples. Line pie-tin, put 
apples in and dot over with- the butter, put on top 
crust, and bake as I have directed above. Should you 
use an apple that is lacking in flavor, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, grated rind and juice of lemon, or a little vanilla, 
can be used, but bear in mind nutmeg is a poison to 
some people, and is also very poignant, and a little will 
flavor a pie. One-fourth of a teaspoon will be enough. 



216 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Apple Custard. 

Pare, core, cook and strain tart apples,- having one 
and one-half cups of the strained apples. Add one- 
third cup sugar, yolks three eggs, and two tablespoons 
cream. Fill pie-tin with plain paste, add custard, 
place rim round edge one-half inch wide, and bake untii 
a nice brown. With whites beaten until - stiff and 
dry, using two tablespoons powdered sugar, make a 
meringue. Spread on pie, and place in slow oven 
until well puffed and a light brown. 

Raisin Pie. 

1^ box cleaned raisins. 1 large, tart apple, chopped fine. 
. % cup sugar. % tablespoon salt. 

1 tablespoon sherry or Madeira wine. 

Line pan with good plain paste. Stew raisins for 
a few moments until soft. Kemove from fire; add 
apples, sugar, salt, and wine to fill pie-tin; put on 
top crust and bake. This pie can be made with strips 
on top instead of top crust. It is fine. 

Blueberry Pie. 

2% cups blueberries. % cup sugar. 

% tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Mix sugar, florir and- salt, and add all to the ber- 
ries. Stir until well mixed. Line pan, turn in fruit, 
put on the top and bake. A fruit pie will take thirty 
minutes to cook fruit and brown crust. 

Cranberry Pie. 

1% cups cranberries. 1^4 cups sugar. 

2 tablespoons cleaned ^ teaspoon salt 

raisins. 1 tablespoon flour. 



PIES. 217 

Mix ingredients. Line and fill pie-tin, and bake, 
with strips of paste forming diamond instead of top 
crust. 

Currant Pie. 

1 cup currants. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup sugar. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons water. 

Mix flour and sugar, the yolks of eggs diluted with 
the water and slightly beaten. ~^Stem, wash and drain 
the currants before measuring. Add to the eggs, etc., 
fill pie-tin, and bake with one crust in slow oven. 

Custard Pie. 

1% c^ps milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon flour. , %. teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. 

Beat eggs slightly; add sugar, milk and salt, and 
strain. Line pie-tin with good plain paste, put on 
one-half-ineh rim, and flute. Pour in custard, flavorr 
ing with whatever you like — ^grated orange, lemony 
vanilla or nutmeg. Bake in quick oven to puff rim, 
and reduce heat to set the custard. Remove from 
fire as soon as the mustard is firm, or eggs and milk 
will separate. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

lYz cups rhubarb, sliced 2 tablespoons flour, 

thin. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 

- 1 full cup sugar. 1 egg. — 

Wash and wipe rhubarb, but do not remove the 

skin unless very tough. Cut into thin slices with the 

scissors. If it is the pink or strawberry variety, the 

skin will add a very nice color to the pie. Mix sugar, 

flour, salt and egg slightly beaten, then add rhubarb. 



218 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Stir all well together and turn into pie-tin lined with 
plain paste. Put on the top and bake; it will take 
half an hour. 

Prune Pie. 

% pound prunes. 1 tablespoan flour. 

1 teatpoon butter. Juice half lemon. 

" % cup sugar. 

Wash prunes in several waters, aad cover with 
clear, clean water. Soak overnight. Cook in same 
water in whic^ they- were soaked until tender. Re- 
move the stones, chop fine, add the juice in which they 
were cooked, with the lemon juice and sugar. Add to 
a pie-tin lined and place on the top. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

Lemon Pie. 

Kind and juice 1 lemon. 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon butter. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

% cup boiling ■water. 

Mix sugar, flour and cornstarch, add boiling water. 
Cook until thick, and add yolks, butter and gi-ated 
rind and juice of the lemon. Line pie-tin same as for 
custard pie; turn in the filling. Bake until crust is 
well browned and filling set. Cool slightly; cover 
with meringue. Plaice in moderate oven to brown 
meringue. 

Cream Pie I. 

1% cups milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

3 tablespoons sugar. % teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons , cornstarch. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Mix flour, cornstarch and sugar; add to the slightly 
beaten yolks of eggs, and salt. Pour on the milk 



PIES. 219 

heated to the scald; return all to double boiler, and 
cook for a/ few moments (about five minutes). Have 
crust baked, fill with the cream, cover with meringiie 
made ,with whites of eggs and three tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, or cover with sweetened, flavored and 
whipped cream. 

Cream Pie II. 

Bake three crusts, and put tlie cream filling between 
and whipped cream on top. It will take one cup of 
whipped and flavored cream for the top. This pie must 
not be filled until just as you send it to the table, as 
the crusts become soft very quickly after they are 
filled. 

Squash Pie. 

1 cup steamed and strained I14 teaspoons each, cin- 

sauash. namon and ginger. 

^Vs cup sugar. . 2 eggs. 

1 cup milk. Pinch salt. 

Pumplcin Pie. 

1 cup strained pumpkin. % teaspoon cinnamon. 

% cup sugar. > . % teaspoon ginger. 

11^ cups milk. 2 eggs. 

% cup cream. ^ V2 teaspoon salt. 

Mi^ sugar, spices and salt. Add pumpkin, eggs 
beaten, milk and cream. Prepare and bake same as 
custard pie. 

Peach Pie I. 

Prepare peaches same as for apple pie, using three- 
fourths cup sugar to a pie. Cover and bal^e half an 
hour. 



220 , SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Peach Pie II. 

Peel and cut freestone peaches in halves. Line pie- 
plate and place the halves in with cups turned up. 
Sprinkle with three-fourths cup sugar and a small 
piece of. butter about as large as a pea in each half. 
Put rim on pie and bake without cover. Serve spread 
with whipped cream or ice-cream. 

Cherry Pie. 

1% cups seeded cherries. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

TTse uncooked cherries if in cherry season; if not, 
cherries that are canned without sugar. Use two crusts. 
Bake half an hour in moderate oven. 

Mincemeat. 

4 cups minced meat. 1 teaspoon white pepper. 

9 cups apples. % teaspoon cloves. 

1% cups suet, very fine. 4 teaspoons cinnamon. 

4 cups white sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints sweet cider. % nutmeg. 

Yz cup whisky. %& pound citron. 

% cup s,herry wine. 3 pounds raisins. 

Juice 3 lemons. 1% pounds currants. 

Juice 3 oranges. 1 cup preserved Daipson 
1 cup preserved cherries. plums. 

1 cup almonds. 

Cook the raisins, currants, citron, apples, suet and 
sugar together slowly for one and one-half hours, then 
add almonds, spices, fruit juice, cider, whisky and 
wine. Stir thoroughly, add meat, and- stir again until 
all are blended, adding the preserves with the fruit 
juice. 

A-B GAS RANGES """'^1"^!!""^ 



PIES. 221 

Mince Pie. 

Mince pies are always baked with two crusts, and 
for special occasions they are much more delicious if 
the top crust is made of puflf paste. They- are especi- 
ally fine served with vanilla ice-cream spread on top. 

Fresh tongue makes fine mincemeat. Mincemeat 
packed in jars will often need more cider added when 
you bake. Use boiled cider. 



222 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

PASTRY DESSERTS. 

"Though we eat little flesh and drink no wine, let's be 
merry. Well have tea and toast, custard for supper, and 
endless hosts of syllabubs and jellies and mince pies, anJ 
other such ladylike luxuries." — Shelley. 

Cheese Cakes. 

1 Qup sweet milk. Grated rind and juice 

1 cup spur milk. 1 lemon. 

Yolks 4 eggs. ^4 cup blanched and 

1 cup sugar. chopped almonds. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald in double boiler the sweet and sour milk. 
Strain through cheesecloth. To curd, add yolks of 
eggs slightly beaten, the sugar, lemon and salt. Line 
small patty tin with good paste. Fill with the mix- 
ture and sprinkle with chopped almonds. Bake until 
the .mixture is firm to the touch. 

Banbury Tarts. 

1 cup sugar. 1 egg. 

1% cups raisins. 1 butter cracker. 

Juice and rind of 1 orange. 

Chop raisins, stir egg and sugar together, add rolled 
cracker, then orange juice and rind. Mix well with 
raisins. Roll pastry very thin. Cut into strips three 
and one-half inches long and three inches wide. Put 
into each ■ piece two teaspoonfuls of the mixture. 
Moisten edges with cold water or lemon juice, and 



PASTRY DESSERTS. 223 

fold over and press edges together with pastry j agger 
or fork. Bake twenty minutes in slow oven. 

Puff Paste Cheese Straws. 

Roll puff paste one-fourth inch thick, and sprinkle 
with grated cheese seasoned with salt and a little 
sprinkle of cayenne. Fold and press edges together, 
and pat and roll. Sprinkle again, pat and roll. Cut 
into strips five inches long and one-half inch- wide. 
Bake until a nice brown. Parmesan cheese 'is the best 
for cheese stick, or you can use half Parmesan and 
half cream, or Edam, or pineapple. Cheese straws can 
be made from pieces of plain paste in the same way, 
but are not so good as the puff paste, 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

Use puff or plain paste. Roll to one-fourth inch in 
thickness, cut into strips about size of lady-fingers, and 
bake on buttered tin sheet in hot oven. When nearly 
done remove and slightly cool, and brush over with 
■whites of eggs beaten, and sprinkle with shredded 
cocoanut. Return to oven and finish baking. 

Meringues with Puff Paste. 

Roll puff paste quite thin, and ^hape either round 
or in lengths eight inches long and five inches wide. 
Place on a sheet and moisten the edges with cold water, 
and put on half-inch rim. Prick several times with 
'fork, and bake a nice brown in hot oven. Remove, 
cool and spread with preserves or jam. "Cover with 
meringue, sprinkle with blanched and shredded almond, 
and shake over all powdered sugar. Brown in slow 
oven. 



224 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Tarts. 



Roll puff paste quite thin, and cut into roundsr 
with fluted cutter, and with a smaller fluted cutter 
remove centers from half- the first rounds. Brush 
edges of whole round and place on the rings, pressing 
lightly. Chill until very stiff and cold, and place in 
hot oven and bake for fifteen minutes. Cool and fill 
with jam or jelly, or cooked raisins. These are very 
nice. 

Peach Tarts with Brandy. 

Roll plain paste, and cut into rounds. Fit on rim 
one-half inch wide, and bake in hot oven. Place in 
center of each one-half of stewed and sweetened peach 
drained and cup turned up, and sprinkled with pow- 
dered sugar and one tablespoon brandy in each peach, 
cup; light and send to table. This can be made from 
canned peaches, but flavor is better when fresh ones are 
used. 

Meringues. 

Eggs for meringues should be thoroughly chilled, 
and beaten with a wire egg-beater until stiff and dry. 
Sweetened and flavored and piled on pies, puddings, 
or any dessert you wish to use them on, they can be 
smooth and evenly spread, or the pastry bag and tube 
can be used. In any case a meringue wants to bake 
in slow oven that it may rise . to its full height and 
wall cells in eggs harden slowly to keep their shape. 
If taken from the oven too soon, the eggs will liquify 
and meringue drop, and if cooked too long, it will 
become tough. 



PASTRY DESSERTS. 225 

Meringue I. 

Whites 2 eggs. % teaspoon cream of tartar, or 

2 tablespoons powdered % teaspoon lemon juice, 

sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat whites stiff, add sugar gradually ^and contiuue 
beating, then add flavoring. If cream of tartar is used, 
add" it to the eggs when they begin to foam. 

Meringue II. 

Whites 4 eggs. , % cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Put whites of eggs and sugar in bowl, and beat 
mixture until stiff enough to hold its shape. Add lemon 
JTiice a drop at a time, and continue beating. It will 
occupy half an hour to beat it sufficiently stiff to hold 
its shape, but is a delicious meringue when well made 
and baked. — Miss Farmer. 

Meringue Kisses. 

Whites 4 eggs. I14 cups powdered sugar. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla- 
Beat whites until stiff, add gradually two-thirds 
of the sugar, and continue the beating until mixture 
will hold its shape. Add the remaining sugar and fold 
in lightly. La.stly, add the flavoring. Vanilla sugar 
is best to flavor with if you have it, as it will not 
evaporate with the heat of the oven. Shape with 
pastry bag or spoon on wet board covered with writing- 
paper. Cook thirty minutes in very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper with broad knife and put together in 
pairs, or, if intended to fill with whipped cream or 
ice-cream, remove the soft part with spoon and return 
to oven to dry. 



226 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Nut Meringue> 



Prepare same as meringue kisses. Add chopped 
nut meat — English walnuts, almonds or hickoiy-nuts. 
Shape by dropping from tip of spoon or with pastry- 
bag and tube. Sprinkle with nut meat and bake as 
directed above. 

Meringues with Ice=creain. 

Fill meringue kisses with ice-cream, and press two 
together and serve, or uge one kiss filled with cream, 
and garnish with whipped cream beaten very stiff, 
flavored and forced through a pastry-bag and tube. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 227 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
PUDDING SAUCES. 

Lemon Sauce I. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 
% cup water. Juice Vg lemon. 

Put sugar in saucepan, add water, and stir well. 
Put on fire and boil for six minutes; remove, add but- 
ter and lemon juiqe. 

Lemon Liquid Sauce II. 

% cup sugar. % cup butter. 

lyn cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons lemon Juice.- 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. Pinch salt. 

Mix sugar, eornstareh and salt. Add the water 
gradually, stirring all the while. Boil five minutes,, 
then add lemon juice and butter. 

' Vanilla Sauce. 

. Prepare same as Legion Sauce II., flavoring with one- 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream Sauce. 
, 1 cup thick cream. % cup powdered sugar. 

Ys cup thin cream. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix and beat until stiff, and flavor. 

Orange Sauce- 

. Whites 3 eggs. Juice and grated rind 1 orange. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Juice 1 lemon. 

Beat whites of eggs (just as you are ready to use 
the sauce) until, very stiff, add the sugar slowly, and 



228 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

•continue the beatiog for a few moments. Flavor with 
juice and rind of orange and lemon. ' 

Foamy Sauce- 

1 cup powdered sugar.' 1 egg. 

% cup butter. . i/i cup wine. 

A few grains salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar, egg well beaten, and lastly 
the wine slowly,, continuing the beating. Heat over 
hot water, beating all the while. 

Strawberry Sauce. 

% cup butter. 1 cup powdered sugar. 

1^ cup strawberries. "White rL egg. 

Cream butter, add sugar little at a time and the 
berries a few at a time, and beat so as to crush the 
berries well, then the" white of the egg beaten until stiff. 

Red Raspberry Sauce- 

Prepare same as strawberry, using raspberries in- 
stead of strawberries. 

Wine Sauce. 

V2 cup butter. 1,4 cup sherry wine. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Grated rind of orange. 

Cream butter, add sugar and wine slowly, beat until 
very light, pile on serving-dish, and sprinkle with the 
grated orange. 

Hard Sauce. 

Vi cup butter. 1 tablespoon lemon juiee^ with a 

1 cup powdered sugar, little of the grated rind or any 
fruit juioe strained. 

Cream butter, add the sugar and tlie fruit juice. 
Beat until very light, and pile on dish and ^ place in 
ice-box to chill. 



PUDDING SAtrCE?. 229 

Brandy Sauce. 

% cufl btitter, 2 eggs. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 1 rtarblespoon cornstarcB. 

%, cup brandy. i 1 cup boiling water. 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Cream butter, add sugar 
gradually, then the well-beaten yolks of eggs and the 
water. Cook until it thickens. Eemove from fire and 
add_^the whites beaten until stiff, then the brandy. 
Keep kot, but do _not boil any after the 'whites are 
added. 

Caramel Sauce. 

1 cup sugar. % cup boiling water. 

Put sugar in skillet and melt and stir until a golden 
brown, but not a~ moment longer. Add the water, and 
cook until a thick syrup ; it will only take a few mo- 
ments. 



A-B ENAMEL Gas Ranges 



A* Easy to Chan 
OB a China Plate 



230 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
HOT PUDDINGS. 

Indian Pudding. 

5 cups hot milk. 14 cup Orleans or Porto 

V2 cup Indian meal. Rico molasses. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

Pour the hot milk slowly on the meal, cook jn 
double boiler twenty-five minutes, and add molasses, 
salt and ginger. Pour into buttered pudding-dish, and 
bake for two hours in Slow oven. Care ha^ to be taken 
to bake slowly. Serve with cream. 

Rice Pudding. 

1 quart milk. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

% cup rice. % cup sugar. 

Grated rind of % lemon. 

"Wash rice in three waters. Mix all the ingredients 
and pour into buttered pudding-dish. Bake in very 
slow oven for three hours. Stir three or four time'? 
during the first hour of baking to keep the rice from 
settling to the bottom of dish. 

Apple Tapioca. 

1 cup pearl tapioca. 4 tart apples. 

2% cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons butter. 

% cup sugar. Cold water and salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water to cover for two hours?. 
Drain, add the boiling water, and cook in double boiler 
until tapioca is transparent. Pare and core apples. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 231 

and cut intp quarters, then into thin slices. Arrange 
in buttered pudding-dish. Sprinkle over the sugar and 
dot with butter; pour over all the transparent tapioca. 
Bake for one and one-half hours in slow oven. Serve 
with powdered sugar and eream. If the apples are 
lacking in flavor, a little grated lemon peel, cinnamon, 
or any flavor you like, can be used. 

Peach Tapioca. 

Use fresh peaches. Proceed same as for apple 
tapioca. Serve with eream. 

Tapioca Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk. % cup sugar. 

% cup pearl tapioca. 1 teaspoon salt. 

' 4 eggs. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cold water. 

Soak tapioca in cold water to cover for one and one- 
half hours. Drain, add to milk in double boiler, and 
cook thirty minutes. Beat eggs slightly, and add sugar 
and salt. Pour on some of the hot milk and stir, turn 
all into the double boiler, and cook until the mixture 
coats the spoon. Remove quickly from fire and turn 
out in bowl to cool. When ready to serve add vanilla. 

Corn Pudding. 

2- cups powdered popcorn. % cup brown sugar. 

3 cups milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

3 eggs, slightly beaten. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Scald milk, pour over com, and let stand one hour. 
Add remaining ingredients. Turn into buttere^ dish 
and bake in slow oven until firm. Serve with cream 
or maple syrup. — Miss Farmer. 



232 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Scalloped Apples. 

% cup butter. Grated rind and juice 

1 quart sliced apples. i^ lemon. 

% cup sugar. 1 loaf stale bread. 

Cut loaf in half lengthwise, remove all the center, 
and rub until crumbs are fine. Melt butter, add crumbs, 
and stir with fork. Spread the bottom of buttered dish 
with the crumbs, and pour in half the apples that have 
been pared and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with 
half the sugar and the lemon juice and rind. Repeat, 
using the remainder of the crumbs on top. Bake in 
slow oven for forty--five minutes, with dish covered for 
the first half-hour. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Ys cup butter. %- cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. ^ 2 caps flour. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and eggs welt 
beaten without separating flour and baking-powder 
alternately with the cup of milk. Turn in buttered 
cake-pan, and bake for half-hour. Serve with vanilla 
sauce. 

Orange Puffs. 

Mate same as cottage pudding, and bake in muffin- 
tins. Serve with orange hard sauce. 

Custard SouffI6. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 cup scalded milk. 
^ cup flour. 4 eggs. 

% cup sugar. 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk. 
When thickened, pour on yolks of egg beaten until 



HOT PUDDINGS. 233 

thick and light in color, mixed with the sugar. Cool, 
and fold in the whites beaten stiff and dry. Turn 
into buttered pudding-dish and bake in slow oven for 
thirty-five minutes.' Serve at once with foamy sauce. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

2 tablespoons butter. 2 squares Baker's chocolate. 

2 tablespoons Hour. 3 tablespoons hot w-ater. 

% tablespoon sugar. 3 eggs. 

% CUP milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on gradually the 
hot milk. When the mixture reaches the boiling-point, 
draw to cooler part of the range. Melt chocolate over 
hot water, add sugar and water, and stir until smooth. 
Combine the mixture and add yolks beaten very light. 
Cool, fold in whites beaten stiff and dry, and flavor 
with the vanilla. Turn into well-buttered baking-dish, 
and bake in moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

Raisin Roly-poly. 

2 cups flour. 4 level teaspoons baking- 

1 tablespoon butter. powder, or 2 rounded. 

1 tablespoon lard. 2 cups taisins, cleaned and 

% teaspoon salt. seeded. 

Milk to make a soft dough. 

Mix dry ingredients, chop in lard and butter, and 
add milk gradually, mixing with knife. Toss on well- 
floured board ; knead slightly, just enough to make the 
dough adhere. Divide into halves and roll one-third 
of an inch thick. Sptead with the raisins that have 
been boiled for ten minutes to plump them ; if there 
is any juice on them, drain it off, and roll up same 
as jelly roll. Place in buttered pan, and pour over 
one and one-half cups of cold water with two table- 



234 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

spoons sugar stirred in it. Put in hot oven, and bake 
until it begins to brown, then lower the heat and cook 
slowly. It will require forty-five minutes in all. This 
roll can be made of apples, or any of the dried fruits, 
■or with jam spread on. Fruits want to be always 
cooked and sweetened, except apples, and they can 
foe chopped rather fine and sweetened. With the raisins 
I would serve orange hard sauce. 

Rhubarb Dumplings. 

2 cups flour. 1 tablespoon butter. 

- 1% cups rhubarb, cut fine. 1 tablespoon lard. 
4 teaspoons baking-powder. Milk to make a soft dougb. 
% teaspoon salt 1 cup sugar. 

Mix dry ingredients; chop in lard and butter. Add 
milk gradually, making a very soft dough. Knead 
slightly and divide in eight equal parts, and roll and 
pat into rounds. Sprinkle the rhubarb with the cup 
of sugar, and add one tablespoonful to each round of 
■dough; draw dough up round the fruit and pinch well 
"to keep in fruit and juice. Place in well-buttered- pan 
■or pudding-dish, with smooth side up, adding one and 
one-half cups of water with two tablespoons of sugar 
dissolved in it. Place in hot oven and bake for forty- 
five minutes. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding. 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 

4 teaspoons baking-powder. 1 cup blueberries. - 

Va teaspoon salt. Milk to make a soft dough. 

Mix dry ingredients, chop in butter, and add milk 
gradually with the blueberries that have been rolled 
in floiir to keep them from settling to bottom. Turn 
into well-buttered mould, and steam for one and one- 
half hours. Serve with creamy sauce. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 235 

Chocolate Pudding. 

% cup butter. 2% cups flour. 

% cup sugar. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

2 eggs. 3 squares Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup milk. % teaspoon salt 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well 
beaten. Mix baking-powder with flour and salt, and 
add alternately with milk to butter, sugar and eggs^ 
then add melted chocolate. Turn all into well-buttered 
mould, and steam for two hours. Serve with whipped 
cream sauce. 

Whipped Cream Sauce, 

One cup thick cream whipped until stiff, sweetened 
with one-third cup of powdered sugar ; add one tea- 
spoon of vanilla. 

Snowballs. 

% cup butter. 2% cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

'% cup milk." Whites 4 eggs. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, milk and flour 
mixed with baking-powder. Add whites beaten stiff. 
Turn into small buttered cups, and cover top of each 
cup with paraffin paper to keep steam from condensing 
in water on the tops of the balls. Place in steamer 
over boiling water and cook for forty minutes. Serve 
with whipped cream, flavored with crushed straw- 
berries or with strawberry sauce.' 

Graham Pudding. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 oup Graham flour. Ys teaspoon soda. 
% cup molasses. % cup white flour. 

% cup milk. 1 cup cleaned and seeded 

2 eggs. , raisins, cut into pieces; 



236 ^ SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Melt butter, add molasses, milk and eggs well beaten 
and dry ingredients mixed well together with the 
raisins. Turn into buttered mould. Cover close and 
steam two and one-half hours. Serve with wine sauce. 
Figs or dates cut fine can be used instead of the raisins. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 cup suet, cut fine. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 cups Hour. Ys teaspoon cloves. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1 nutmeg, grated. 

1 cup raisins, cut fine. 

Mix spices, salt, raisins and soda with the flour. 
Add molasses and milk to suet; combine mixture, and 
turn all into buttered mould. Cover closely and steam 
three and one-half hours. Serve with hard or foamy 
sauce, flavored with sherry wine. 

Fig Pudding. 

% cup suet, cut fine. 2ya cups stale bread crumbs. 

V^ pound figs, chopped. J^ cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. 1 cup chopped nuts. 

Chop suet fine, and remove all membrane and 
strings; add figs to suet. Soak bread crumbs in milk, 
add eggs well beaten, sugar and salt. Combine mix-- 
ture. Turn into buttered mould, covered closely, and 
steam for four hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 

French Fruit Pudding. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup fine chopped suet. 

1 cup sour milk. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

lYs teaspoons soda. i/^ teaspoon salt. 

3% cups fiour. IVj cups raisins. 
% teaspoon cloves. 

% cup nut meat. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 237 

Add molasses and sour milk to suet finely chopped. 
Add two cups flour mixed with soda, salt and spices. 
Add fruit mixed with remaining flour. Turn into 
buttered mould, cover and steam four hours. Serve 
with Stirling sauce. — Mrs. C. M. Dearborn. 

Stirling Sauce. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 4 -tablespoons cream. 

3 tablespoons wine. 

English Plum Pudding. 

% cup sugar. % uound stale bread crumbs. 

4 eggs. % pound raisins, cut into 

% pound currants. pieces. 

1.4 pound figs. Small piece citron, cut fine. 

1/2 pound suet. , % cup wine and brandy 

'\i teaspoon cloveSi mixed. 

^'^ teaspoon mace. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 cup scalded milk. .1% teaspoons sail. 

Pour milk over the bread crumbs, and let stand 
until cool. Add sugar, yolks of eggs beaten until 
light, then the raisins, citron, figs and currants. Chop 
suet and rub it to a cream with the fingers. Combine 
the mixture. Add the 'wine and brandy and the spices 
mixed well together. Fold in the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff. Turn into buttered mould, and cover very closely 
and steam for six hours. 

APPLE DESSERTS. 
Apple Snow Pudding. 

2 cups strained apples. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 
1-1/2 cups fiour. Milk to make a thick drop 
% teaspoon salt. batter. 

2 tablespoons butter. 



238 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Put the strained apples in a pudding-dish. Mix 
dry ingredients well together. Chop or rub in the 
butter. Add milk enough to make a thick drop batter. 
Pour over the apples in pudding-dish, and place in 
steamer and cook for about forty-five minutes, and 
serve at once with sweetened cream. 

Apple Dumpling. 

Prepare crust same as for prune, or rhubarb dump- 
ling, or use plain pie crust. Select apples of uniform 
size, pare, and core carefully. Pill the cavity with sugar 
and one-fourth spoonfvj^ of butter; mix cinnamon with 
the sugar, if liked. Roll pie crust thin, and cut into 
squares large enough to cover apple well; place apple 
in center of each piece. Moisten the edges of the 
crust, and draw the points together on top and press 
the edges together. Turn over and place in pan, 
smooth side up. Add one. and one-half cups of sweet- 
ened water to pan in which you bake them. Dumplings 
must have some steam to cook the fruit and to keep 
crust from burning. Bake in slow oven forty-five 
minutes. 

Baked Apples. 

Select apples of uniform size, pare and core. Fill 
each cavity with sugar and small piece of butter. Place 
in pan and bake in slow oven for a long time, until 
they are well cooked and the flesh of the apple takes 
on a pinkish look. You want to put cup of water in 
pan when you set them in the oven, and baste the apple 
occasionally with it while it is cooking. Serve hot with 
the dinner or cold with whipped cream piled on and 
around it for a dessert. 



HOT PXJDDIN6S. 239 

Apples with Red Raspberry Jam. 

Pare, core and stew as many apples as needed. 
Add one and one-half cups of boiling water and cook 
ten minutes. Strain off the water, add one cup of 
sugar, and as soon as boiling-point is reached drop in 
apples a few at a time so as not to crowd them. Cook 
until you can pierce them, but they must keep their 
shape, removing them carefully to a serving-dish- as 
they cook, and adding more until all are cooked. Ar- 
range nicely on serving-dish, and fill center of each 
apple with red raspberry jam. Boil the liquor in sauce- 
pan down to a thick syrup, and pour over the apples 
and sprinkle them with chopped almonds and a tea- 
spoonful of brandy. Serve with a foamy sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Ornament the bottoms of a buttered mould with 
raisins and citron. Cover them with slices of stale cake, 
then the fruit again, and repeat until the mould is 
two-thirds full. Make a custard with two and one-half 
cups of milk, yolks of four eggs and four tablespoons 
of sugar. Pour very carefully into the mould a little 
at a time; place mould in pan of hot water, and cook 
in slow oven until the custard is set; it will require 
from forty-five to fifty minutes. Unmould and serve 
with wine sauce. 



A-B GAS RANGES f^ti:/^:, 

240 SCIENTIPIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER XXVI. 
COLD DESSERTS. 

Lemon Jelly. 

% box shredded, or 2 table- 1 cup sugar. 

spoons granulated, gelatine. Ms cup cold water. 

Vo cup lemon jiiice. 2% cups boiling water. 

Soak gelatine in cold water for half an hour, dis- 
solve in boiling water, strain, and add to sugar and 
lemon juice. Turn into mould and chill. 

Orange Jelly. 

% box shredded, or 2 % cup cold water. 

tablespoons granulated, 1% cups boiling water. 

gelatine. 1 cup sugar. 

1% cups orange juice. Juice 1 lemon. 

Pepare same as lemon jelly. Cut oranges crosswise, 
and use glass lemon squeezer, and strain the juice 
through a fine French sieve. Mould, turn on serving- 
dish, and garnish with candied orange peel. 

Wine Jelly. 

% box shredded, or 2 table- 1 cup sugar. 

spoons granulated, gelatine. Juice 1 orange. 

1/2 cup cold water. Juice % lemon. 

1% cup^ boiling water. 1 cup sherry wine. 

Soak gelatine thirty minutes in the cold water, dis- 
solve in the one and one-half cups 0:^ boiling water, 
and add fruit juice, sugar and wine. Strain, mould 
' and chill. Catawba wine is very nice for making wine 



COLD DBSSEKTS. 241 

jelly, using one-half cup less water, omitting the orange 
juice, and usinar the catawba wine instead. 

Jellied Walnuts. 

11^ tablespoons granulated 1 cup sugar. 

gelatine. y^ cup orange juice. 

% cup cold water. % cup sherry wine. 

Va cup boiling water. Juice % lemon. 

Prepare same as other jellies, and cover bottom ef 
pan or mould with flat bottom. Pour in part of the 
mixture and place in ice-water until nearly firm. Then 
place a layer of halves of English walnuts under the 
entire top, allowing a little space between. Cover with 
the remaining mixture. Chill, turn on serving-dish, 
and garnish with whipped cream dotted with creme de 
Menthe or Maraschino cherries. If the red cherries 
are used, tint the cream ar delicate rose pink beforei 
w^hipping, or a delicate green if the creme de Menthes 
are used. 

Snow Pudding. 

W^ tablespoons granulated Whites 4 eggs., 

gelatine. 1 cup sugar. 

1-3 cup cold water. % cup lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatine half an hour in cold water. Dissolve 
in the boiling water, add sugaj" and lemon juice, and 
strain. Set aside in cool place, stirring occasionally 
"until quite thick. Beat with whisk until frothy. Add 
whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry. Continue beating 
until it will hold its shape. INJould or pile on , glass 
serving-dish. Set where it will be very cold. Serve 
with cold boiled custard made from yolks of eggs. 
This pudding can be divided, and part tinted pink and 
part violet, which makes it very attractive. 



242 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding. 

1% tablespoons granulated Vz cup sugar. 

gelatine. 2 tablespoons brandy. 

14 cup cold water. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 cups scalded milk. 6 macaroons. 

Yolks 3 eggs. 6 lady-fingers. 

Put gelatine to soak. Make a custard of the eggs, 
milk and- sugar. Salt, strain, add the soaked gelatine, 
cool slightly, and arrange a. mould in pan of ice-water. 
Decorate mould with candied cherries and angelica. 
Cover with the mixture, adding carefully with a spoon 
a ' little at a time. When mixture ,in mould is firm, 
add layer of lady-fingers dipped in the custard, then 
a layer of the macaroons that have been dipped in the 
custard. Repeat, using care to have each layer firm 
before adding another. Garnish with candied cherries 
and serve with cream. 

To Whip Creams 

We use both thin and heavy cream in preparing 
desserts. It can be purchased in pintsi, naif-pints and 
quarts. The heavy cream is known as double cream, 
and when thoroughly chilled will whip quickly. Gream 
should be chilled by placing it in a vessel surrounded 
by crushed ice and water. There are several cream- 
whips on the market that do the work nicely and quick- 
ly. The whip-churn is good for preparing the whip 
for charlotte russe, where we use the gelatine and want 
the large bubbles; also for the fruit sponges. Place 
whip-churn in bowl of chilled cream, and hold down 
cover with left hand, and with the right hand work 
the dasher, using care not to lift dasher too high or 
it will splatter. Stir dovra the first bubbles or they 
will be too large. After that remove the bubbles with 



COLD DESSERTS. 243 

spoon with holes in it, and place on strainer. As the 
cream drains through, it can be returned to bowl and 
whipped again until all is done. There will be a little 
left in the bowl that does not whip. Cream after whip- 
ping should be three times its bulk before whipping. 
Heavy cream must be whipped with a Dover egg-beater 
or some of the new whips at present found in the up- 
to-date house-furnishing establishments. Sweeten and 
flavor all cream before whipping. To dilute cream, 
use one-third milk. Heavy whipped, sweetened and 
flavored creams are used with pastry bag and tube to 
decorate fancy cold desserts. 

Charlotte Russe- 

% box shredded, or 2 table- % cup cold water. 

spoons granulated, gelatine. % cup scalded cream. 

Whip from 4 cups thin cream. % cup powdered sugar. 

Lady-iingers to line mould. iy2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in the scalded 
cream, and strain into mixing-bowl. Add sugar and 
vanilla. Set bowl into pan of ice-water, and stir until 
it begins to thicken. Then fold in the whip from 
cream a little at a time, making about three additions. 
Trim ends of lady-fingers, and decorate mould with 
them, leaving a little space between, turning the crust 
side out. Turn in mixture, chill and serve. 

Caramel Charlotte. 

2 tablespoons granulated 2 tablespoons powdered 

gelatine. sugar. 

% cup cold water. 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

% cup scalded cream. 6 lady-fingers. 

1^ cup sugar, caramelized. Whip from 4 cups cream. 

Prepare same as charlotte russe. Add the caramel 
sugar to the scalded cream before adding the gelatine 



244 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

soaked in the cold water. Line charlotte mould, and 
fill and chill. 

Strawberry Sponge. 

2 tablespoons granulated 1 cup sugar. 

gelatine. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

V2 cup cold water. • 1 cup strawberry juice. 

% cup boiling water. Whites 4 eggs. 

1 quart cream whip. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling' 
water ; add sugar, lemon and strawberry juice and pulp. 
Chill in ice-water. When thick, beat with wire whip 
until frothy. Add whites of eggs beaten stiff, and 
fold in the cream whip. Turn mixture in mould 
smoothly and evenly, chill, and turn on serving-dish. 
Use large berries split in halves to decorate the sponge, 
and some strawberry leaves and the whole berries for 
the plate. This is a pretty strawberry dessert. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Grated rind and juice 1 tablespoon granulated 

% lemon. gelatine. 

Va cup white wine. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

% cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Turn lemon, wine, sugar and yolks of eggs into 
saiicepan, and stir briskly over fire until mixture 
thickens. Add gelatine soaked in the cold water, then 
pour over the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Place in 
pan of ice-water and beat until stiff enough to hold 
its shape. Line mould with lady-fingers. Turn in 
cream, and chill. Strawberry, orange or red raspberry 
juice can be used instead of the wine. 



COLD DESSERTS. 245 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. 

2 tablespoons granulated 1 can grated pineapple. 

gelatine. % cup sugar. 

% cup cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 quart whipped cream. 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Heat pineapple, and 
add sugar, lemon "juice and the soaked gelatine. Chill 
in pan of ice-water, stirring constantly. When it be- 
gins to thicken, fold in whipped cream, mould and chill. 

Caramel Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk. Vs cup sugar. 

6 eggs. % teaspoon salt. 

Put sugar in frying-pan. Stir constantly, over 
hot part of the range, until melted to a syrup of a light 
brown color. Remove at once and add to the milk, 
using care that the milk does not bubble up and run 
over, as it is liable to do on account of the great heat, 
of the sugar. As soon as the sugar is melted in 
milk, add the mixture gradually to the slightly beaten 
eggs. Add salt, and flavoring, and strain all into a 
buttered mould. Bakp in slow oven, with mould resting 
in water until firm. Chill and turn on serving-dish, 
and pour over a caramel sauce. 

Caramel Sauce 

% cup sugar. % cup boiling water. 

Prepare sugar in frying-pan as for caramel custard. 
Add water, simmer ten minutes, and cool. Pour over 
the custard when it is unmoulded, and sprinkle over 
all some finely chopped almonds. — Miss Pwrloa. 

Baked Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk. % cup sugar. 

6 eggs, beaten sligbtly. 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Pinch of salt. 



246 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beat eggs slightly. Pour on scalded milk slowly, 
flavor, and strain into buttered mould. Set in pan of 
hot water, and bake in slow oven until firm, which 
can be determined by drawing a knife through custard ; 
if knife comes out clean, the custard is done. You can 
bake this in custard cups if you desire. 

Boiled Custard. 

Yolks 4 eggs. 14 cup sugar. 

--Pinch salt. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 cups hot milk. 

Slightly beat the eggs, add salt and sugar, and pour 
on gradually the hot milk. Cook in double boiler until 
it coats the spoon as thick as cream. Remove at once, 
strain, chill and flavor. Too long cooking will cause it 
to curdle. 

Apple Snow. 

Whites 4 eggs. 1 cup apple pulp. 

Powdered sugar. 

Pare, core and quarter four or five apples, according 
to size. Steam until tender and rub through a sieve. 
Sweeten to taste. Beat whites of eggs until stiff. Add 
gradually the apples, and continue the beating. Pile 
lightly on glass dish and serve with cream or soft 
custard. 

Fruit Salad. 

Use alternate layers of pineapple, bananas and 
oranges, a little lemon juice, and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

To Slice Oranges. — Remove the skin and all the 
white covering. Slide lengthwise, removing seeds and 
tough core in center. Strawberries are a nice addition 
to this salad, also pitted cherries and grapes. 



FROZEN DESSEETS. 247 



CHAPTER XXVII. 
FROZEN DESSERTS. 

FROZEN desserts include water ices — fruit juice 
sweetened, diluted with water, and frozen. 

Sheebet. — A water ice to which is added a small 
quantity of dissolved gelatine, or egg whites beaten 
until light. 

Feapp^. — "Water ice frozen to a mush, using equal 
parts of salt and ice. 

Punch. — Water ice with liquor of some kind added. 

SoEBET.-^^Water ice where several kinds of fruit 
are used, together with some kind of liquor, usua;lly. 

Plain Ice-ceeam. — Made with custard to form 
body, then cream and flavorings. 

Philadelphia Ice-gebam. — ^Use for this a rather 
thick cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla, and 
frozen. 

Mousse. — Heavy cream beaten until stiff, combined 
with fruit purees and gelatines, packed in salt and 
ice and allowed to stand for three and one-half or four 
hours.. 

Frozen desserts are served all the year round, and 
are not any more trouble than the making of any des- 
sert. Mousses are especially easy to prepare, as" they 
are packed in ice and salt and allowed to rest until 
time for unmoulding to serve. For the sick and con- 
valescent, they hold a place all their own. 



248, SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Qeneral Rules for Ice-cream Mixtures. 

Unless cream is to be whipped, it is best to scald 
it in double boiler, as it gives a smoother and better 
ice, using care not to cook it too long, as cream cooked 
too long will not increase in bulk. As soon as tiie 
water in bottom of double boiler reaches the boiling- 
point is long enough, and wants to be removed at once. 
For water ices, always make a syrup with the sugar 
and water by cooking them together for ten minutes, 
then add the fruit juices. For custard and frozen 
pudding, the milk should always be scalded and poured 
onto the beaten eggs, then returned to the tire in double 
boiler and cooked until they coat the spoon, but not 
a moment longer. Beat until cool, flavor, and pack in 
freezer, using three measures of crushed ice and one 
of rock or coarse salt. For biscuits and parfaits, the 
custard is inade of sugar, syrup and yolks of eggs cooked 
together until it coats the spoon, then beaten until cool. 

Preparation for Freezing. 

Put the ice in strong cloth bag, and with wooden 
mallet kept for the purpose pound it very fine; the 
finer the ice is crushed, the sooner the freezing will 
begin. Place the can in the freezing- jacket, using care 
to have the pivot of the can in the socket. Put cover 
on can with cork in the top, that no salt may get in, 
and pack, using three times as much c^sjied ice as 
salt. Hold your can straight while packing, and pack 
to within about an inch of the top. See that the can 
will turn. Take off top, and place the dasher in posi- 
tion with pivot in socket in bottom of can. Then pour 
in carefully your ice-cream mixture, but do not have 
■ freezer more than three-fourths full. Adjust top and 



FROZEN DESSERTS, 249 

crank, and turn for about twenty minutes, and your 
cream will be ready to pack and ripen. You do not 
have to remove" top to. know when it is done. The 
crank reports to you all that is necessary by turning 
much stiffer. Cream frozen too quickly will be coarse- 
grained. There will be no freezing on the inside until 
there is melting on the outside. 

Packing. — ^When cream is frozen, take off crank 
and wipe top carefully, using care to have the salt and 
ice lower than the can. Lift off top, remove the paddle, 
and with a wooden spoon pack the cream in tight. If 
fruit or whipped cream is to be added, do it now and 
3T\ix it well with the cream, or, if the cream is to be 
moulded, remove from freezer and place in moulds that 
are ready for this purpose. Make the Cream firm and 
compact in mould by the use of a common wooden po- 
tato-masher and wooden spoon. Smooth the top of the 
mould cover with a paraffin paper, and bind the edge 
of the top with butter or lard, to keep out the salt 
water when they are packed. But if the cream is to 
ripen in the freezer- jacket, you replace the top, put 
in cork, and draw off the water from jacket by taking 
out, cork which you will find near bottom of the pail. 
Add more ice and salt. Cover top with coarse cloth, 
and let it rest until ready to serve, noticing that the 
water does not rise above the top of can. Ices are 
always better to stand at least one hour before serving, 
to ripen and blend. 

Moulding Ice-cream. — Put the frozen ice-cream 
into mould, filling it entirely full ; press it down to force 
out all air bubbles, cover with thin white paper, press 
on top pFose, and bind round the edge with butter to 
keep out the salt water. The joints must be water- 



A-B GAS RANGES ^^eg °°^ 

250 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

proof to accomplish this. Imbed the mould in salt and 
"broken ice for from one to five hours. Mousses require 
from five and one-half to six hours; parfaits, from two 
to three hours. Watch and draw off water; if neces- 
sary, add more ice. 

Lemon ice. 

4 cups water. 2% cups sugar. 

1 cup lemon juice. 

Make syrup by boiling sugar and water for twenty 
minutes. Strain, cool and freeze, according to direc- 
tions for freezing. Serve in sherbet cups. 

Oranee Ice. 

4 cups water. 2 cups orange juice. 

2% cups sugar. Grated rind 2 oranges. 

% cup lemon juice. 

Prepare same as for lemon ice. Add fruit juiee 
and grated rind. Cool, strain and freeze. Serve in 
sherbet cups. 

Strawberry Ice. 

2 cups strawberry juice. Juiee 1 temon. 

2 cups sugar. 4 cups water. 

Sprinkle strawberries with sugar, and let them 
stand for two or three hours. Mash and press through 
a very fine French sieve or cheesecloth. Add the water 
and lemon juice, then freeze. This method will give 
you, a fine, fresh flavor and good color for water ice. 

Raspberry Ice. 

Prepare same as strawberry ice, using either the 
red raspberry or the black-caps. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 251 



Currant Ice. 

2 eups currant juice. 2 cups sugar. 

4 cups water. 1 tablespaon lemon juice. 

Prepare and freeze same as strawberry ice. 

Currant and Red Raspberry Ice. 

4 cups water. 1 cup currant juice. 

1 cup raspberry juice. 1% cups sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Prepare and freeze same as strawberry. This is a 
nice combination. 

Creme de Menthe Ice. 

4 cups water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

114 cups sugar. % cup creme de Menthe. 

Leaf green to color. 

Make syrup with water and sugar, then add lemon. 
Strain, color a very delicate green, add cordial, and 
freeze. 

Chocolate Ice with Whipped Cream. 

3 squares chocolate. 1% cups boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. 3 cups milk (scalded). 

Salt and vanilla. 

Melt chocolate over hot water and scalded milk. Add 
half the sugar to chocolate, and salt. Add gradually 
the boiling water; boil a moment, and add /to scalded 
milk with the remaining sugar. Cool and freeze. Gar- 
nish with whipped, sweetened and flavored cream. 

Pineapple Sorbet. 

2 cups water. 1% cups orange juice. 
21,4 cups sugar. 1/2 cup lemon juice. 

1 shredded pineapple. 1 quart ApoUinaris. 

Prepare and freeze. 



252 ' SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Apricot Sorbet. 

1 can apricots. % cup lemon juice. 

1^4 cups sugar. 1 pint cream. 

Drain apricots, rub pulp through sieve, and add to 
juice. Add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze to a mush, 
which you can tell by the turning of the freezer. Lift 
top and fold in the cream that has been whipped. Let 
it rest for two hours, and serve in glasses. 

Cardinal Punch. 

4 cups water.- % cup lemon juice. 

2''^ cups sugar. % cup brandy. 

1 cup orange juice. % cup strong green tea infusion. 

Prepare syrup same as for any water ice. Add 
fruit juice and tea, freeze to a mush,^add liquor, and 
continue freezing. Serve in frappe glasses. 

Pineapple Cream. 

2 cups water. 1 grated pineapple. 
1% cups sugar. 2 cups .cream. 



Cook together sugar, water and pineapple for fifteen 
minutes. Add orange juice, strain, and freeze to a 
mush. Open freezer and fold in the whipped cream. 
Return top and continue freezing. Draw off water, 
pack, and stand for thirty minutes. Serve in frappe 
glasses. Garnish with candied pineapple and cherries. 

Philadelphia Cream. 

1 quart cream. % cup sugar. 

1% tablespoons vanilla. 

Mix ingredients and freeze according to directions 
for freezing.' 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 253 

Vanilla Ice-cream. 

1 pint scalded milk. Yolks 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons flour, y^ teaspoon salt. 
1 cup sugar. 1 quart cream. 

2 tablespoons vanilla. 

Mix flour, sugar, salt and eggs slightly beaten. Add 
milk slowly. Cook in double boiler over hot water for 
twenty minutes^ stirring constantly at first. Strain^ 
cool, add cream and flavoring. Pack freezer, pour in 
cream, and freeze as directed. Serve with chocolate 
sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce. 

1% cups water. 2 squares chocolate (Baker's). 

% cup sugar. % cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Pinch salt. 

Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. 
Mix chocolate and arrowroot, add cold water, combine 
all with sugar and water syrup, and add salt. Boil five 
minutes longer slowly. Flavor with vanilla. Pour on 
cream while hot. 

French Ice=creani. 

1 pint milk, scalded. l^^ tablespoons vanilla or 

3 cups cream. 1 vanilla bean. 
1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 
Yolks 6 eggs. Pinch salt. 

Heat milk to scald in double boiler. Beat yolks and 
sugar and flour until light and smooth. Add scalded 
milk slowly to eggs and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook fifteen minutes, stirring all the while at first. 
If vanilla bean is used for the flavoring, it should be 
split in two lengthwise and, infused in the milk as it 
scalds. Remove custard from fire, strain,xand stir until 



254 ' SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

cold. Add cream, and, if extract of vanilla is used, 
add that. Freeze as directed. 

Chocolate Ice-cream. 

Use either of the recipes for vanilla cream, accord- 
ing to the richness desired, adding to the custard while 
it is hot three squares of Baker's chocolate, melted in 
small saucepan on range at low degree of heat. "When 
melted, stir in a very little milk to dilute it before 
adding to the custard. Cool, freeze, and 'pack asi 
directed. 

Coffee Ice-cream. 

2 cups milk. Yolks 4 eggs. 

% cup Mocha and Java 1 tablespoon flour. 

coifee. Pinch salt. 

1% cups sugar. ■ 1 quart cream. 

Steep the coffee in the double boiler in the scalded 
milk, strain and return the infusion to the double 
boiler. Mix the egg yolks with the sugar, salt and 
flour. Pour on the coffee infusion from the double 
boiler slowly, and cook all for ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove, strain, cool, add cream, pack~and 
freeze. Coffee ice-cream can be served with Maraschino 
cherries. 

Caramel lce=cream. 

1 pint milk. Yolks 4 eggs. 

3 cups cream. 1% cups sugar. 
1 tablespoon flour. % cup water. 

Scald milk, and make custard with eggs and flour. 
Caramelize the sugar in frying-pan, add water, and 
cook until a very thick syrup. Pour into the custard, 
strain and cool. Add cream, and freeze as directed. 
Serve with hot caramel sauce. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 255 

Strawberry Ice-cream. 

3 pints cream. 2 cups sugar. 

3 cups berries. Pinch of salt. 

Wash, drain and cap berries; cut into slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, and let them stand for two hours. 
Press them through a fine sieve, or you can rest cheese- 
cloth over sieve or colander. The cream wants to be 
rather a good quality for this cream. Put cream in 
and freeze slightly, then add the berry juice and sugar, 
and finish freezing. Garnish with strawberry leaves 
and large berries. 

Bisque Ice=cream. 

Make a custard as for vanilla ice-cream, using one 
mor^ yolk of egg. Add one quart of thick cream; it 
need not be thick enough -to whip, but rather thicker 
than for the vanilla cream. Add one cup of nut meats, 
either pecans or English walnuts, or our own shellbark 
hickory-nuts cut fine or ground with the coarsest knife 
of the food-chopper. 

Macaroon Ice-cream. 

1- quart cream. 1 cup sugar. 

1% cups macaroons. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Pinch salt. 

Pound macaroons (if they are fresh, dry them), and 
add cream, sugar, salt and' vanilla. Freeze as directed. 

Ginger Ice-cream. 

Add two cups of preserved ginger (cut fine) to the 
vanilla ice-cream, and three tablespoons of syrup from 
the ginger, one cup of finely chopped nuts (any kind 
you like), and one-third cup sherry wine. Then freeze. 



256 SCIENTIPIC COOKING. 



Pistachio Cream. 

Make same as vanilla ice-cream, using one teaspoon 
of almond extract with one tablespoon of vanilla for 
the flavoring. €olor with leaf green, and add one-half 
cup of blanched and chopped almonds or pistachio nuts. 

Neapolitan Cream. 

Two kinds of cream and a water ice, moulded in 
a brick form. 

Frozen Pudding. 

2yg cups milk. Cup heavy cream. 

1 cup sugar. % cup rum. 

A little salt. 1 cup candied fruit. 

2 eggs. Cherries, pineapple an pears. 

Soak the fruit (cut in small pieces) .in brandy to 
cover for two hours or longer, to prevent it from freez- 
ing. Make custard of the milk, sugar, salt and eggs. 
Strain, cool, add cream and rum, and freeze. Pack in 
brick mould in layers of cream and the fruit that has 
soaked in the brandy. Pack in salt and ice for three 
hours. Serve with candied fruit for a garnish. 

Peach Ice-cream. 

1 quart fresh peaches, 1 quart heavy cream, 

crushed and rubbed A pinch of salt, 

through sieve. Sugar to taste. 

Select a ripe freestone peach, pare and cut into 
pieces. Rub through sieve, making a puree. Add 
sugar, salt and cream, and freeze. Garnish with one- 
quarter pieces of the peaches and some peach leaves. 

Baked Alaska. 

Whites 6 eggs. 6 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Thin sheet sponge cake. 2 quarts brick ice-cream. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 257 

Make meringue of eggs and sugar. Cover board 
■with white paper, lay on sponge cake, and turn ice- 
cream on cake, allowing the cake to extend one inch 
beyond the cream. Cover with the meringue. Spread 
very smoothly. Brown quickly in hot oven^ a gas 
^oven is best for this. 

Tom and Jerry Punch. 

% pint yolks eggs. V-j cup Maraschino. 

% pound sugar. i^ cup brandy. 

1 pint milli:. V2 grated nutmeg. 

3 cups cream. 

Make a custard of eggs, sugar and milk. Strain, 
cool, add cream, and freeze to a mush. Add Maraschino, 
brandy and nutmeg, and finish freezing. — Gibson House 
Chef. ' 

Tom and Jerry Pudding. 

To. the above recipe add one and one-half cups of 
mixed friiits cut and soaked in brandy to cover for 
two hours. Use raisins, citron, cherries and candied 
pineapple, and one-half cup chopped nut meat. The 
fruit is to be added when the punch is frozen to a 
mush. 

Kresch Wasser Frappg. 

* 1 quart water. 1-lnch stick cinnamon. 

1 pound sugar. 3 whole cloves. 

3 lemons. Thin peelmg 1 lemon 

1 orange. Thin peeling 1 orange. 

V2 cup Kresch Wasser. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, with the cinnamon, 
orange, lemon and cloves. Cook for ten minutes, re- 
move from fire, strain and cool. Freeze until frappe. 
Add Kresch "Wasser. 



258 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Maraschino or Ladles' Punch. 

Prepare same as Kresch Wasser frappe, using three- 
fourths cup Maraschino instead of the Kresch Wasser. 

Sultana Roll with Claret Sauce. 

Line one-pound baking-powder tins with pistachio 
ice-cream. Sprinkle with sultana raisins soaked one 
hour in brandy to cover. Fill center with whipped 
cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla, and one- 
half cup chopped almonds folded in. Cover with the 
pistachio cream full, so when top is forced on the 
cream will come out round the edge. Pack in salt and 
ice for two hours. 

Claret Sauce. 

1 cup sugar. • % cup water. 

% cup claret. 

Boil sugar and water for ten minutes, until sjTTip 
is very thick. Cool slightly, add claret and serve. 

CaU Parfalt. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup sugar. 

% cup Mocha coffee. 3 cups cream that will 

Yolks 3 eggs. whip. 

Pinch salt. 

Steep coffee in the hot milk, and make custard with 
the milk, coffee, salt and half the sugar. Add one cup 
cream and rest for a few moments. Strain through 
cheesecloth to catch all the grounds of the coffee, add 
remaining sugar and one cup cream, and freeze. Line 
mould and fill center with whipped, sweetened and 
flavored cream. Pack in salt and ice, and stand for 
three hours. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 259 

Bombe GIac6e. 

Line mould with fine colored fruit sherbet. Pill 
with ice-cream or charlotte russe mixture. Cover with 
the sherbet, pack in salt and ice, and stand for two 
hours. Strawberry ice and macaroon ice-cream make 
a good combination. 

Nesselrod Pudding. 

1 cup French chestnuts. i/^ teaspoon, salt. 

1% cups sugar. % cup pineapple syrup. 

6 egg yolks. % pound mixed candied fruit. 

2 cups milk. 1 cup blanched almonds. 

1 pint cream. % cup Maraschino and sherry. 

Shell, blanch and cook the chestnuts until tender. 
Press half of them through a sieve. Blanch the al- 
monds, and chop fine with food-chopper. Cut the can- 
died fruit and remaining chestnuts into dice, and pour 
over them the TMaraschino and let them stand until 
ready to use. Make a custard with the milk, sugar 
and the eggs and salt. Strain, cool, add cream, chest- 
nuts and the almonds, and freeze. Line a two-quart 
mould with the mixture, and to the remaining add 
the diced fruits, chestnuts and sherry. Put in mould, 
pack in salt and ice, and let stand for two hours. Serve 
with whipped cream sweetened and flavored with 
Maraschino syrup. Garnish with Maraschino cherries. 
This pudding is supposed to have originated from the, 
chef of Count Nesselrod. 

Strawberry Mousse. 

1 box strawberries. 1% tablespoons granulated 

1 cup sugar. gelatine. 

1 quart cream. 2' tablespoons cold water. 

3 tablespoons hot water. 



A'B EiMMEL Gas Ranges 



At Easy to Clean 
as a China Plate 



260 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Wash, drain and cap the berries, sprinkle with sugar, 
and let them stand for an hour. Eub them through a 
sieve. Add the gelatine soaked in the cold and dis- 
solved in the boiling water. Set in pan of ice-water 
and stir until it begins to thicken; then fold in the 
whip from the cream. Put in mould,, cover, pack in 
salt and ice; let stand for four hours. You can use 
raspberries instead of strawberries. 

Coffee Mousse. 

Make same as strawberry, using one cup of strong, 
freshly made boiled coffee instead of the fruit juice. 

Maple Parfait. 

Yolks 6 eggs. 1 cup hot maple syrup. 

% cup chopped nuts. 1 pint thick cream. 

Whip cream until stiff, beat yolks and pour on 
slowly the maple syrup. Cook until mixture thickens, 
cool, and fold in the whipped cream and chopped nuts. 
Mould and pack in salt and ice for three hours. 

Mousse Marron. 

1 quart vanilla ice-cream. IVi teaspoons granulated 

% cup sugar. gelatine. 

% cup water. 1% cups prepared French 

Whites 2 eggs. chestnuts. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 1 pint whipping creams 

Cook sugar and water rapidly for five minutes, dis- 
solve gelatine in two tablespoons boiling water, and add 
to syrup. Place in pan of ice-water. Stir until cold ; 
add chestnuts and fold in the whipped cream and 
vanilla. Lihe mould with ice-cream and fill center with 
the mixture. Cover closely, pack in salt and ice, and 
stand for three hours. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 261 



Biscuit Tortoni. 

2 cups thin cream. % cup sherry wine. 

% cup sugar. 1 pint whipping cream. 

1 Cup dried and crushed macaroons. 

Soak macaroons in the thin cream half an hour or 
jnore. Add the sugar and wine, freeze to a mush, and 
add the thick cream whipped until stiff. Mould, pack 
in salt and ice. Rest for two and one-half hours. 



262 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

BEVERAGES. 

"Drink away all unkindness." — Shakespeare. 

A beverage is any kind of a drink, and is composed 
of water combined with other things. And as water is 
so essential to man, we want to give attention, and 
much consideration, to the different beverages. They 
are taken to quench thirst; to introduce water into the 
circulatory system; to assist in carrying off the waste; 
to regulate the temperature of our body; to stimulate 
the nervous system; to nourish, and for medical pur- 
poses. 

TEA. 

Tea is used to a large extent in every country, not 
so much in the United States as many otner countries, 
but the five o'clock tea is quite fashionable. All tea 
is grown from one species of shrub. Climate, elevation, 
soil and care in picking and curing aU go to make up 
the differences. The first quality is that made from 
the young, whole leaves. There are two kinds of tea 
we consider: Black tea, made from leaves which have 
fermented before curing; green tea, made from un- 
f ermented leaves and colored. Our best black tea comes 
from Ceylon and India, and is known oy the names 
of Oolong, Formosa, English Breakfast, Flowery Pekoe, 
Orange Pekoe, etc. The two last named are used a 
great deal for iced teas and five o'clock teas, and for 
this reason command a high price. They are prepared 



BEVERAGES. 263 

from the youngest leaves, and are scented with orange 
leaves. Our best green tea comes from Japan, and is 
knovfn as Japan, Young Hyson and^ Gunpowder. 

Analysis tells us that the tea is rich in proteid mat- 
ter, but after the infusing it becomes a stimulant, 
and the only nutriment we get is in the milk and sugar, 
and as the tea-drinker usually takes it without the milk, 
only sugar is left, and for the foregoing reason we 
look upon it as a stimulant only. The stimulating 
property is dpe to theine, while we also find tannic 
acid, which is developed from the tannin by infusing. 
This is what is considered injurious in the tea, from 
the fact that tannin will contract the coating of the 
stomach, and for this reason retards the action. It 
also, when taken in excess, will cause sleeplessness, but 
when "taken in moderation it does no harm, provided 
it is properly madte. Freshly boiled water should 
always be used for making tea. "Water below the boil- 
ing-point does not extract the stimulating properties 
of the tea, and water boiled too long is rendered flat 
and insipid, for the reason that the atmospheric gases 
escape. Tea wants always to be infused, never boiled, 
and served at once, as long steeping develops the tan- 
nic acid and also destroys the delica^te flavor. The 
tea-ball is much used by tea-lovers, especially in the 
drawing-room with the samovar. 

To Make Tea. 

3 teaspoons tea. 2 cups boiling water. 

Scald an earthen or china teapot and have it very 
hot. Put in the tea, and pour on the boiling water. 
Let it stand where it keeps hot, but does not boil. 
Steep for five minutes and serve at once. Serve with 



264 SCIENTIFIC' COOKING. 

sugar and cream, as one desires; always add cream 
to tea after pouring. Do not add fresh leaves to pot 
and steep again, but turn out the steeped leaves and 
scald pot, and make the second cup with fresh leaves 
and water. 

Five O'clock Tea. 

For this you use "five o'clock tea-kettle" in draw- 
ing-room, with either the teapot or the tea-ball. 

Russian Tea. 

Follow recipe for making tea. Russian tea can be 
served hot or cold, but always without milk, with the 
addition of a small piece of lemon cut the long ways 
and all the seeds removed, each person sweetening to 
taste. 

Iced Tea. 

3 teaspoons tea. 2 cups boiling water. 

Make as above directed, and strain into glasses filled 
half full of cracked ice. Serve with lemon with seeds 
removed. 

Tea with Mint. 

Make same as iced tea, using three crushed leaves 
of mint in the glass and pour on the hot tea. This 
gives a fine flavor of the mint. Garnish with creme de 
Menthe cherry in each glass. . 

COFFEE. 

Coffee is grown in all tropical climes, but the coffee- 
tree came originally from Abyssinia. The berries of . 
the coffee-tree axe the coffee of commerce. Ooffee 
berries before roasting are almost tasteless. The value 
of coffee is determined by its size, shape and color. 



BEVERAGES. 265 

Coffee used to be cured by exposure to the sun, but 
the coffee of the present day is washed and dried by 
steam heat. Coffee needs to be roasted. In the process 
of roasting the flavor is developed and ihe berries are 
increased in size. Java ranks highest for flavor, but the 
Mocha has the strength and sparkle, and commands 
the highest price. Mocha and Java combined give the 
finest cup of coffee, using one measure of Mocha to 
two of Java. 

The stimulating properties of coffee are due to the 
- ' ' caffeine ' ' and essential oils. Coffee also contains 
an astringent, and is considered a greater stimulant 
than tea. Coffee quickens the action of the heart 
and acts upon the nervous system, and when taken after 
the meal it assists the digestion, and fatigue of body 
and mind are lessened by the moderate use of coffee. 
A coffee-drinker can stand severe cold better than one 
who does not use coffee., In time of war it has been 
found invaluable to the soldier, and a much better 
stimulant than alcoholic drinks to keep up his powers 
of endurance. Both tea and coffee are more readily 
absorbed when taken on an empty stomach, and for 
this reason should not be used in this way except for 
medicinal purposes. The flavor, aroma and strength 
of the coffee are a volatile oil encased in the woody 
flber of the coft'ee bean, and the grinding and erushing* 
of the berry expose this oil to the action of the water, 
and give the flavor and strength to the cup of coffee. 

Coffee is served either as an infusion or a decoc- 
tion. 'The infusion is considered the most wholesome, 
but the boiled coffee (or decoction) is more generally 
used by the consumers. We buy the coffee almost en- 
tirely roasted and, ground, in either of three ways — 
fine, coarse and medium — the gVinding depending upon 



266 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the way it is to be made, using finely ground for fil- 
tered and coarse or medium for boiling. 

Filtered Coffee. 

114 cups coSee. 6 cups boiling water. 

There is a great variety of coffee-pots on the mar- 
ket for making filtered coffee. They all contain a 
strainer in which to hold the coffee without letting 
the grounds mix with the infusion. Place coffee in 
strainer and place on range where it keeps hot, but will 
not boil. Add gradually the boiling water, allowing 
it to filter slowly. If not strong enough, refilter, and 
serve at once with cut sugar and good cream. Always 
put sugar and cream in cup before pouring the coffee. 
If cream is not obtainable, use scalded milk; it is well 
to have a pitcher of hot milk to dilute coffee if too 
strong. 

Boiled Coffee. 

1% cups coffee. 1 cup cold water. 

1 egg. 6 cups boiling water. 

Use granite pot. Scald, wash egg, and break in bowl 
with the coffee, using shell. Mix well, turn on the cup 
of cold water, pour all into the scalded pot, and pour 
over the six cups of water that have just reached the 
boiling-point. Stir thoroughly, place on iot part of 
range, and let it boil for three minutes; it must boil 
or the coffee will not be clear, but too long boiling de- 
velops the tannic acid. Draw it where it keeps very 
hot, but does not boil^ for ten minutes. Be careful to 
keep coffee covered closely and spout of pot filled with 
soft paper, to keep the aroma from escaping. Just 
before you serve it, pour out some in cup to be sure 
the spout is free from grounds, an3 pour in one-half 



BEVERAGES. 267 

cup of ice-water or a small piece oJ ice. This drives 
the grounds to the bottom. Serve at once with cut 
sugar and cream. If any coffee is left over, pour off 
the grounds and use to wet the coffee for the next 
meal or for making a jelly. Coffee can be cleared with 
the shells from the eggs,*but will not be so rich or fine 
flavored. 

Cafe au Lait. 

Make coffee very strong, and serve equal quantity 
of scalded milk. In the French market in New Orleans 
they serve this very fine. 

Vienna Coffee. 

Make" a fine drip or percolated coffee, and serve 
whipped cream, using thick cream, and whip stiff. 

Caf6 Noir. 

AFTEE-DINNER COFFEE. 

For after-dinner use twice the amount of coffee, 
and filter. Serve in after-dinner cups, with cut sugar. 
This coffee, taken without cream, is supposed to assist 
digestion. Gentlemen often biirn brandy with some 
sweet spices and; add this to the coffee. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. 

Our cocoa and chocolate industry is confined chiefly 
to Mexico, South America and the West Indies. Both 
cocoa and chocolate are prepared from seeds of the 
cocoa bean. The bean pod is from eight to ten inches 
long, and from three to four inches in diameter, each 
pod containing from twenty to forty seeds, imbedded 
in a mucilaginous substance. The beans are dried 



268 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

before they are imported, but have to be roasted to 
develop the flavor. After the roasting, the outer 
•covering is removed, and this covering m.akes the 
cocoa shells. The beans are broken and sold as cocoa 
nibs. 

The various preparations oh the market are made 
from these ground cocoa nibs, from which, by hydraulic 
pressure, a large amount of the fat is expressed, leav- 
ing a solid cake. To this sugar, cornstarch or arrow- 
root is added, and some cinnamon or vanilla. Broma 
contains arrowroot and cinnamon. 

Chocolate is made from the nibs, but contains a 
much larger amount of fat than the cocoa prepara- 
tions, and for this reason is harder to digest. It is 
made into cakes for the market, in bitter, sweet and the 
flavored. Cocoa butter is made from the fat from the 
cocoa bean. The cocoa and chocolate are very nourish- 
ing as well as stimulating. Theobromine is the active 
principle in the cocoa and chocolate. 

Cocoa Shells. 

1 cup cocoa shells. 6 cups boiling water. 

Boil shells and wat* for three hours, adding more 
water as it boils away. Strain and serve same as cocoa, 
with milk and sugar. Milk should be hot. 

Breakfast Cocoa. 

2 tablespoons cocoa. 2 cups boiling water. 
2 tablespoons sugar. , 2 cups scalded milk. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk, mix sugar, cocoa and salt, dilute with 
boiling water, adding slowly until a , smooth pastey 
then add remaining water. Boil one minute, turn into 
scalding milk in double boiler, and whisk briskly with 



BEVERAGES. 269 

Dover egg-beater', forming a froth which will prevent 
a scum from forming on top. 

Reception Cocoa. 

4 tablespoons cocoa. 1 cup boiling water. 

% cup sugar. i cups scalded milk. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix salt, cocoa and 
sugar. Add boiling water slowly until a smooth paste 
is formed. Add all to scalded milk, and whisk with 
Dover egg-beater until well frothed. Serve with 
spoonful of whipped creain on each cup. 

Cocoa with Brandy. 

Use same proportions as for reception cocoa, and 
prepare in same way, and before you use the Dover 
egg-beater, add one-fourth cup of brandy. 

Chocolate. 

2 squares chocolate. 1 cup boiling water. 

1/4 cup sugar. ^ 3% cups milk. 

2 cups whipped cream. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk, melt chocolate in bowl over hot water, 
add sugar and salt, and gradually the boiling water. 
"When perfectly smooth, cook on stove for a moment 
and add to the scalded milk, with vanilla. Beat and 
serve in chocolate cups with whipped cream. 

Svs^eetened Chocolate. • 

2% ounces sweetened 4 cups scalded milk, 

chocolate. 2 cups whipped cream. 

Pinch salt. 

Scald milk, add chocolate, and stir until chocolate 



A'B GAS RANGES S^U* and sizes 

270 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



is all melted. Cook a few moments in double bouer. 
Beat and serve in chocolate cups with whipped cream. 

Fruit Punch. 

10 oranges. 2 cups sugar. 

6 lemons. 1 cup hot water. 

1 small pineapple, grated. 1 cup raspberry or straw- 

2 cups tea infusion. berry juice. 

1 quart ApoUinaris. 

Make .iuiee of orange, lemon, pineapple, raspberry 
syrup and tea. Then add syrup made by boiling sugar 
and water ten or twelve minutes rapidly. Place a 
square of ice in punch-bowl, and add punch. Just be- 
fore serving add ApoUinaris. 

Club Punch. 

2 cups sugar. y^ cup Benedictine 

1 cup water. 1 quart (white) Burgundy. 

1 cup rum. 1 quart ApoUinaris. 

% cup brandy. 1 cup strong green tea. 

3 sliced oranges. 1 small, ripe pineapple laid 
Juice 2 lemons. in sugar six hours. 

Ice. 

Make syrup, by boiling sugar and water ten minutes. 
Mix remaining ingredients, sweeten to taste with syrup, 
and pour in punch-bowl over block of ice. — 8t. Nicholas 
Chef. 

Unfermented Grape Juice. 

10 pounds grapes. 1 cup water. 

3 pounds sugar. 

Heat grap'es with water in granite steiwpan until 
skin and pulp separate. Strain through jelly-bag. Add 
sugar, heat to boiling-point, bottle and seal. This will 
make about one gallon, if grapes are fine. When 
served, dilute one-half. 



BEVERAGES. 271 

Cherry Punch. 

1 small bottle Maraschino 1 cup boiling water. 
cberrieBr 2 cups cherry juice from a , 

6 oranges. ' dark red cherry. 

2 lemons. 1 cup pineapple juice. 
2 cups sugar. 1 quart ApoUinards. 

Proceed same as for fruit punch, making syrup 
with water and sugar boiled together for ten minutes. 
Cut one of the oranges in small pieces, and the pine 
in cubes, and use small bottle of Maraschino cherries to 
garnish the punch. Pour all on block of ice, chill and 
add ApoUinaris. Serve in punch-cups. 

Claret Cup. 

1 quart ApoUinaris. i/i cup brandy. 

1 quart claret wine. Syrup to sweeten. 

Ys, cup curacoa. Crushed mint leaves. 

1 cup orange juice. Strawberries to garnish. 

Mis ingredients, except ApoUinaris, using enough 
sugar syrup (made by boiling twb cups of sugar and 
one of water for fifteen minutes) to sweeten ' to taste. 
Chill by placing near ice. Add the chilled ApoUinaris 
just before serving. 

Champagne Punch. 

1 quart champagne. 2 tablespoons orange curacoa. 

2 cups sugar. , Juice 2 lemons. 

1 cup water. 2 cups green tea. 

% cup brandy^ 1 quart sbda water. 

1^ cup rum. Block ice. 

Boil ' water and sugar to thick syrup. Mix cham- 
pagne, brandy, rum, curacoa, kmon juice and tea in- 
fiision. Sweeten to'« taste, and pour in punch-bowl over 
block of ice. Just as you serve, turn on soda water.— 
Chef. 



272 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTBE XXIX. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

"Serenely full, the epicure would say; 
Fate can not harm me, I have dined to-day." 

— Recipe for salad, Sidney Smith 

SALADS constitute a course at almost evei-y table, at 
luncheon and dinner,. and it is quite the thing now 
for the lady of the house to see that hei- salads are prop- 
erly made and attractively served, and even the nursery 
is provided with the plain lettuce and oil. This is 
quite different from the times of Matilda of Flanders, 
■who had to send a messenger into the next kingdom 
to get the salad greens. The varieties and combina^ 
tions found in the salad-bowl of to-day are marvels in 
taste and beauty. The salad plants areJettuce, chicory,' 
watercress, cabbage, corn salad, etc. In these there is 
hut little nutriment, but they stimulate the appetite, 
and are cooling and refreshing, and are valuable for 
the water and potash salts they contain, and the nutri- 
ment is supplied by the olive oil with which we dress 
them. Greens for salads should always ^ fery crisp 
and fresh, thoroughly washed, drained and wrapped 
to exclude the air and chilled on ice. The plainer 
salads can be dressed at table, as many prefer to have 
done ; but it is best to have combinations dressed just 
as you are ready to send to table. They should never 
he dressed and allowed to stand. Fish, vegetables, 
fowl, etc., should be mixed with French dressing and 
stand for a time, then drained and arranged on lettuce 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 273 

and more dressing added. In using several kinds of 
vegetables, -they want to be put in French dressing in 
separate bowls, as the separate arrangement gives a more 
artistic salad. Meats for salads want to be freed from 
skiri, bone and gristle, cut in cubes with a pair of scis-'' 
sors, and put into a marinade until time to drain and 
dress. Fish should be flaked and treated in the same 
way. 

When salads are dressed at table, first sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, add oil, then the vinegar or lemon 
juice. If the acid is added first, it . will cause the 
greens to wilt and the oil will settle in |)ottom of bowl 
instead of coating the leaves, and every leaf should 
glisten and sparkle with the oil before the acid is 
added. 

A capon is a piece cut from the end of a French 
loaf and rubbed with a clove of garlic. Put in the bot- 
tom of the bowl, and tossed about with the greens, it 
■will impart the fiavor as you stir and dress the salad. 
The capon is often used with a vegetable salad, and 
adds a very agreeable flavor. 

To Marinate. — In cookery, the word means to add 
salt, pepper, vinegar and oil, and let stand until well 
seasoned; then aMays drain, or your salad dressings, 
' especially Mayonnaise, will be diluted and thin. 

French Dressing I. 

Yg. teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

^ teaspoon black pepper. 3' tablespoons olivg oil. 

Paprika- 
Mix seasonings with oil, 'then add vinegar slowly, 

stirring all the while. The acid dissolves the salt and 

pepper, and holds the oil in epiulsibn. 



274 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

French Dressing II. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon Tarragon vinegar. 

14 teaspoon white pepper. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
2 tablespoons brandy. 4 tablespoons olive oil. 

Mix same as French Dressing I., adding brandy- 
last.— C/ief. 

Boiled Cream Dressing. 

% cup vinegar. 1 teaspoon mustard (dry). 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. Piece butter size of -walnut 
Yolks 3 eggs. 1 cup whipped cream. 

^ White pepper. 

Mix flour, sugar, mustard, salt and pepper. Add 
the slightly beaten yolks of eggs. Stir until well 
blended. Heat vinegar in small saucepan, and pour 
on mixture. Stir well and return to saucepan, and 
cook for five minutes, stirring all the while. Remove 
from fire, . add butter, stir and cool. Add whipped 
cream just as you are ready to dress the salad. This 
is nice on cabbage, tomatoes, etc. 

Cream Dressing. 

% cup thick cream. Vo teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. % teaspoon white pepper. 

% teaspoon paprika. 

Beat cream until stiff, using Dover egg-beater. Add 
salt, pepper and lemon juice, and continue the beating. 
Sprinkle the paprika over top of dressing. Vinegar can 
be used instead of the lemon juice if preferred. 

Horseradisli Dressing. 

4 tablespoons grated 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

horseradish. 1 cup whipped cream. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. Salt, a little pepper and 

paprika. 



SALADS AND SAX.AD DRESSING. 275 

Curry Dressing. 

% teaspoon curry powder. 14 teaspoon pepper. 
% teaspoon salt. 6 tablespoons olivp oil. 

2 tablespoons .vinegar. 

Mix same as French dressing. 

Mayonnaise Dressing I. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 teaspoon powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoon dry mustard. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon salt. % tablespoon Tarragon 
Yolk 1 hard-boiled egg. vinegar. 

Dash cayenne. IVz cups olive oil. 

Mix dry ingredients. Add yolk and beat until 
thick. Add oil gradually drop by drop, stirring rapidly 
all the while. As the mixture thickens, thin with 
■vinegar and the lemon juice. After the mixture 
thickens to a jelly consistency, the oil can be added 
faster, but in the start too much care can not be given 
to the slow addition, from the fact that if added too 
rapidly a decidedly curdled condition will show itself 
in the dressing. Should this occur, the renledy is to 
take a fresh yolk of egg, beat until thick, and add the 
curdled dressing slowly to the fresh yolk. If the 
stirring the mixture in inside of another bowl with ice- 
stirring the mixture in inside of another Dowl with ice- 
water surrounding it. The olive oil should be chilled 
before using for Mayonnaise. For mixing Mayonnaise 
a Christie mixer, or a small wooden, spoon, can be used. 
The Mayonnaise should be stiff enough, to hold its 
shape. 

Mayonnaise Dressing II. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 teaspoon Colman's mustard. 

% teaspoon salt. > % teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon vinegar. d' tablespoons , oil. 



276 SCIENTIPIC COOKING. 

Place all in chilled bowl. Beat very rapidly with 
Dover beater until all are well blended. Then add oil 
by the teaspoonful, with lemon juice from one-half of 
a lemon, until you have the amount you desire. With 
the first mixture you can make two (or even more> 
cupfuls of fine stiff Mayonnaise tJhat will hold its 
shape. — Mrs. Edw-ard Rogers' Recipe. 

Cream Mayonnaise. 

To Mayonnaise add one cup of whipped cream. 
It wants to be very stiff, and wants to be added to 
Mayonnaise just as you-are preparing to serve. The 
point is always to keep the dressing stiff. 

Green Mayonnaise. 

Prepare same as Mayonnaise, and color by using 
expressed juice of parsley and watercress, using twice 
as much cress as parsley. Plaee leaves in mortar or 
bowl, and pound until the leaves are well crushed. 
J'lace in cheesecloth and squeeze out the color and add 
to Mayonnaise. 

Red Mayonnaise. 

Rub lobsjer coral through a sieve, and add to May- 
onnaise, or tint with fruit red. 

SALADS. 

Dressed Lettuce. 

Wash dry and thoroughly chill a fine head of let- 
tuce. Place in salad-bowl in shape by placing outside 
leaves next bowl, and the tender heart leaves in the 
eehter. Serve, with French dressing. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad. 

Cut tomatoes in halves crosswise, take out as many 
of the seeds as you can without spoiling the shape of 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 277 

the tomato, chill, drain and arrange on heart leaves 
of lettuce, forming a cup. Use a Mayonnaise dre'ssing 
to garnish with, or French dressing. , 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad. 

Remove thick slices from each end of cucumbei", 
pare and cut in thin slices, and lay in ice-water for 
half an hour. Peel small, firm tomatoes, and chill. 
Cut into quarter-inch slices, and lay alternate slices 
of tomatoes and cucumbers on a pretty leaf of lettuce, 
and serve with French dressing, with a little grated 
onion or onion juice added to it, or sprinkle the top 
with chives cut fine. 

Cucumber Cup with Lettuce. 

Use a short, thick cucumber, cut in quarters cross- 
ways. Remove centers from piecesj arrange on cups 
formed from leaves of head lettuce, and fill with cream 
dressing made with the whipped ' cream and lemon 
juice. Sprinkle with chopped nuts. 

Cucumber Salad to Serve with Fish. 

Pare cucumber, cut lengthwise, and lay in ice-water 
for an hour. Lay fiat on platter and cut into thin slices 
without spoiling the original shape. Surround with 
lettuce cut in ribbon. Dress with French dressing. 
Serve with fish course. 

Water Cress. 

Clean, drain and chill. Arrahge in salad-bowl. 
Decorate with whites and yolks of e^gs pressed through 
a pot ato-ricer. ' Serve , with French dressing. 

Celery Salad. 

Wash, scrape and cut into bits rather small. Add 
talf cup of nuts and dress with Mayonnaise or boilied 



278 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

eream (iressing. You can use peanuts, walnuts or 
pecans. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Use a solid head of white or purple cabbage. Cut 
into halves, and with sharp knife shred very fine, 
place in ice-water, and let stand for one hour until 
very crisp. Drain by using a double -cheesecloth, to 
press it in, freeing as much' as is possible from the 
water. Add cup of fine-Cut celery. Dress with boiled 
cream dressing. Serve in shell made from cabbage- 
head, Rest on bed of parsley. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Use cooked or canned asparagus. Arrange on let- 
tuce leaves, and garnish with finely cut ribbons from 
green and red sweet peppers. Dress with French 
dressing. 

Potato Salad. 

Use one quart of potatoes cut in balls or diced, ^ and 
cook in salted water until they are done, but do not 
let them lose their shape. Dress with one-half teaspoon 
paprika, six tablespoons oil, two tablespoons grated 
onion or onion juice, four tablespoons vinegar, tossing 
all with each addition that is made. Add cup finely 
cut celpry, and two tablespoons minced parsley. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. Garnish with beet root cooked and 
seasoned in vinegar, hard-boiled eggs, parsley and 
curled ends of celery. This is nice served with cold 
meat. 

Endive Salad. 

Use the center of well-bleached endive, cleaned and 
wiped dry. Dress with French dressing made with 
Tarragon vinegar. Garnish with radishes cut in slices, 



saijADS and salad dressing. 279 

and yolks of hard-boiled eggs pressed through sttainer, 
and whites cut in fine strips. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Select medium-sized tomatoes, plunge them into 
boiling water a moment until the skin can be removed. 
(A wire basket is best for this, as all are lifted from 
the water at once.) Peel them, remove the hard end, 
take out the seeds, and form cups. Sprinkle with salt, 
turn down on plate, and place in ice-box to chill. Fill 
with equal quantities of celery and cucumbers cut into 
dice, and one-third as much English walnut meats. 
Mix all with enough Mayonnaise dressing to moisten. 
Fill tomato cup, serve on lettuce leaves, , and garnish 
with curled celery; 

Salad k la Normandy. 

Pare and core five nice apples; musit have fine 
flavor. (The Baldwin is good.) Cut into Julian sjiapes 
(which are about the size of matches), and dress with, 
oil, lemon juice, one cup whipped cream, salt and 
paprika. Serve on a bed of watercress. Sprinkle with 
minced English walnuts. 

Salad Solferino. 

Prepare same as po^to salad, using equal quantities 
of pickled beets cut same shape as the potatoes. Use 
vinegar from the beets, and, instead of grating the 
onion, cut it in fine rings, and mix ~with salad, using 
a Bermuda onion. This was Jhe salad Napoleon or- 
dered after the battle of Solferino. 

Russian Salad. 

Use one, and one-half cups each of cold cooked po- 
tatoes, carrots, peas and beans. Marinate each, and 



A-B GAS RANGES s^usmd sizes 

280 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

place on lettuce leaves to form four sections. Mask 
each section with Mayonnaise. Garnish two sections 
with smoked salmon cut into small , pieces, one with 
finely cut whites of hard-boiled eggs, and the remaining 
one with hard-boiled egg yolks forced through a strainer. 
Make lines of sprigs of parsley to outline the sections. 

I Tomato Salad with Horseradish. 

Peel, chill, and cut crosswise twice good, solid to- 
matoes; they want to have as few seeds as possible. 
The Acme tomatp is good for making salads. Arrange 
on lettuce leaves and dress with horseradish sauce. This 
is nice to serve with oysters. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

One quart of tomatoes stewed and strained.. Sea- 
son with salt, cayenne, powdered sugar, and add two 
tablespoons of granulated gelatine dissolved in hot 
water. Pour into small cups or dariole moulds just 
enough to serve one person. Unmould on leaves of let- 
tuce, and garnish with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Cucumber Jelly. 

Grate enough cucumbers to make two cups full. 
Press through strainer to remove the seeds. Add one 
tablespo'oh of granulated gelatine soaked ^ in one-half 
cup of cold water and dissolved in one-half cup of bon- 
ing water, one teaspooriful of onion juice, salt and pep- 
per, two tablespoons of vinegar, and a little cayenne. 
Color with leaf green, strain and mould, chill, and 
sen^e with a tomato Mayonnaise. The cucumber can be 
moulded' so as to leave a well for the tomatoes, or you 
ean scoop out the cucumber from the center and form 
one, using the jelly you scoop out to garnish the salad 



SAIJADS AND SADAD DRESSING. 281 

with.. li^or tomato Mayonnaise, color the Maydnnaise 
with tomato puree. 

Egg Salad. 

Use six hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves lengthwise. 
Eemove the yolks. Put through a potato-ricer, season 
highly with mustard, salt and pepper, and moisten with 
olive oil until they can be formed into balls the size 
of the original yolk. Refill whites, and dress with 
Prench dressing, with onion juiee added. 

Waldorf Salad. ' 

Use equal quantities of finely cut apples aild crisp 
celery, , mixed with one-third as many chopped nut 
meats. Moisten with a Mayonnaise dressing. Serve in 
cups made of red apples, by removing a piece from /top, 
and scoop out center. Garnish with curled celery, and 
tops with slices of red apples cut the long ways and 
rubbed with piece of lemon to keep from discoloring. 

Qrape Salad. 

Remove seed from white grapes and one-half cup 
English walnut meats, and pulp from one grape-fruit, 
and a few cherries. Dress with whipped cream sea- 
soned with juiee fi;om the grape-fruit, salt and paprika. 
Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with the cherries. 

Brazilian Salad. 

Remove seeds from Malaga grapes cut in halves. 
Add equal amount of fresh pineapple cut in cubes and 
same amount of tender celery cut fine.. Add one-half 
the quantity of Brazil nuts broken in pieces. Mix 
thoroughly,, and season with lemon juice and whipped 
cream. 



282 SCIENTIFIC COOKING, 

Banana Salad. 

Pare, bananas, and scrape off all the stringy sub- 
stance. Cut lengthwise into four strips, and cut the 
strips into cubes. Dress immediately with a French 
dressing, with plen^ of paprika. Lemon juice is the 
best acid for the banana salad. Serve on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with shredded red and green sweet pep- 
pers. This is a fine salad to .serve with veal. . 

Orange Salad for Duck. 

Use three sour -oranges. Peel and cut in rounds; 
remove all core and white outside. Arrange on flat 
salad-dish, laying one round to overlap the other just 
a little. Make egg balls with the hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs about as large as a partridge egg, and stone some 
olives — about as many as you have. egg balls — and ar- 
range in center of the platter. Sprinkle finely chopped 
nuts over all, and pour on good French dressing, using 
lemon juice for the acid. Serve this with the game 
course, garnished with shredded lettuce and pimentoes. 

Sardine Salad. 

Eemove skin and bones from sardines, and mix 
with mashed yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Moisten with 
Mayonnaise, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Place a 
teaspoonful of Mayonnaise on each service, and dash 
of paprika on Mayonnaise. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber Salad. 

Use a pair of sweetbreads that have been cooked, 
slowly for twenty-five minutes. Cut into cubps. Mix 
with equal amount of cucumbers cut into dice. Season 
with French dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves or 
in cups made from, the cucumbers, and put on lettuce 
leaf. 



» SALADS AND SAIjAD DRESSING. 283 

Shrimp Salad. 

Remove shrimps from can, cover with ice-water, and 
let them stand half an hour. Drain, and' dry them on 
a towel by patting with the hand. Remove intestinal 
vein that extends the entire length of the shrimp, Break 
into pieces all but a few of the finest, which you re- 
serve for the garnish. Add one cup of tender celery 
cut into small pieces. Jfoisten with Mayonnaise dress- 
ing, arrange on nests of leaves from a fine head of let- 
tuce, ^nd put a teaspoon of Mayonnaise on each nest. 
Lay one of the reserved shrimps on top of the Mayon- 
naise, with some capers and a few finely chopped nuts. 

Lobster Salad. 

Remove "meat from shell cut into cubes, and mari- 
nate with French dressing. Reserve the lobster claws 
for garnish. Add one cup of very finely cut celery, 
using the tender stalks. Mix with a small quantity of 
your Mayonnaise, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Add 
a teaspoonfiil of Mayonnaise to each seryidcy and 
sprinkle with lobster coral pressed through a fine sieve, 
jtarnish mtla. the small lobster claws. 

Crab Salad in Tomatoes. ', 

Use six medium-sized tomatoes as nearly alike as 
possible. Plunge into boiling water. Peel, cut piece / 
from stem end, and scoop out all seeds. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, lay on plate so they will drain, and 
place in cool place. Remove the meat from hard-shell 
crabs; there .should be one and one-half cups. Add 
same amount of tender celery cut into small pieces, 
^ and moisten with Mayonnaise. Wipe the tomatp cups 
and fill with the mixture. Serve on lettuce leaves, and 
garnish with curled celery and olives. 



284 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Oyster Salad. 

Parboil one pint of oysters, drain, chill, and remove 
the tough muscles. Use three grape-fruits cut in halves 
with small pointed knife, making the edges of each 
half in points. Remove the pulp, and drain on sieve. 
Add the grape-fruit pulp to oysters, and season with 
four tablespoons of tomato catsup, ten drops of Tabasco 
sauce, two tablespoons of lemon juice, one tablespfoon of 
grated horseradish, one-half cup of whipped cream, one 
teaspoon of powdered sugar. Mix ' all well, and add ^ 
to oysters and grape-fruit. Refill the grape-fruit cup, 
and rest on lettuce leaves. Garnish with shredded let- 
tuce and red radishes cut in the shape of lilies. 

Chicken Salad. 

Use cold boiled or roasted fowl cut into cubes and 
marinated in French dressing. Add equal quantity of 
tender celery (if/ the large stalks are used, they must 
be scraped) cut into small pieces. Moisten with Mayon- 
naise, or k good crdam dressing, Mayonnaise preferred. 
Line salad-bowl with heart leaves of lettuce, and turn 
in the salad mixture, mounding it in center. Garnish 
with yolks of hard-boiled eggs forced through potato- ' 
ricer, and a little dressing added to make them stick 
together, and form them into small balls. Cut the 
whites into rounds, rest each ball on a round of the 
white, and sprinkle with paprika. ' 

Pisih Salad with Cucumbers. 

Season two cups of cold fiaked halibut, haddock or 
white lake fish with salt, pepper, lemon juice and a 
little oil. Let it stand for at least an hour. Drain well, 
and add cucumbers cut into cubes. Dress with whipped 
cream to which have been added lemon juice, two table- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 285 

spoons of grated cucumber, one teaspoon of onion juice, 
and paprika. Serve on lettuce leaves with slices of 
cucumber to garnish. 

Chicken and Sweetbread Salad. 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads twenty minutes. 
Drain, cool, and cut into cubes. Mix with an equal 
amount of cooked fowl cut into cubes. Mix and mari- 
nate with French dressing. Add one cup finely cut 
celery and one-half cup pecan-nuts cut fine. Moisten 
with cream or Mayonnaise dressing. Line salad-bowl 
with heart leaves of lettuce, and mound the salad in 
center. Garnish with small cucumber pickle cut in 
fancy shapes. 

Cheese Salad. 

Arrange a fine head of lettuce in salad-bowl in the 
shape it was before washing, and sprinkle thickly ^yith 
Edam or pineapple cheese and some chopped nuts. 
Pour over all a French dressing, with plenty of oil and 
lemon juice. 

Pimento Salad. 

Use one small can of shrimp and three hard-boiled 
eggs. Chop eggs fine, and break shrimp in small pieces. 
Moisten with French dressing. Fill canned pimentoes 
with the salad, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Bermuda Onion Salad. 

Cut a Bermuda onion in half the long way, and slice 
very thin, and place in ice-water for one hour. Drain 
and dry, and dress generously with oil until thoroughly 
coated. Add salt, pepper and paprika, and lastly one 
tablespoon of Tarragon vinegar and one tablespoon of 
cider vinegar. ' Serve on lettuce leaves, with boiled or 
cold meats 6f any kind. 



286 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTEE XXX. 
CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Cheese Canapes I. 

Toast strips or circular pieces of bread freed from 
■crust. Sprinkle thickly with grated cheese seasoned 
■with salt and cayenne. Place on a shallow pan or sheet, 
and place in oven until cheese is melted, and serve at 
once. 

Cheese and Mustard Canapes- 
Spread strip of bread browned in butter, with mixed 
mustard (the French is the best), and sprinkle thickly 
with grated cream cheese, and sprinkle over all plenty 
of finely chopped egg whites and parsley 'minced.) 

Anchovy Canapes. 

Spread circular pieces of toasted bread with anchovy 
butter, and chop separately whites and yolks of hard- 
cooked eggs. Cover canapes in sections with alternate 
yolks and whites of the eggs, making two divisions with 
the anchovies split in two lengthwise. 

Sardine Canapes. 

Spread strips of bread browned in frying-pan in 
butter, with the sardine paste. Prepare the paste by 
removing the skin and bone from the, sardine and add- 
ing a small quantity of , creamed butter. Season with 
Worcestershire sauce, cayenne and a little lemon juice. 
Garnish center of each with olive with stone removed 
and cavity filled with the sardine mixture. Form bor- 
der round edch with minced whites and yolks of eggs. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 287 

Caviare Canapes- 
Toast rounds pf bread, and place on top of each , 
round a ring cut from hard-boiled white of egg. Fill 
the rings, with caviare, and form border round all with 
finely chopped cucumber mixed with the strained yolks 
of eggs. Mix the cucumber with enough French dress- 
ing to season before forming border. 

Boston brown bread can be used for the above 
canapes, if preferred. 

Lobster Canapes. 

Use pieces of bread cut into diamond shapes about 
one-fourth inch thick. Spread with butter and brown 
in oven. Spread with a thin layer of Mayonnaise. dress- 
ing, and on top of this spread a layer of lobster meat 
pounded fine and mixed with yolks' of hard-boiled eggs, 
seasoned with salt and paprika, and moistened with a 
tablespoon of thick cream. Spread and serve. 

There is a great variety of fancy garnishing used 
for canapes, but you can get these only in cafes and 
fancy hotel cooking. I am only giving you the plainer 
canapes. 

SANDWICHES. 

There is nothing so fascinating tp a real hungry 
person as a plate of sandwiches, with, the bread cut 
so thin you can see the color of the filling through. The 
Earl of Sandwich is greatly to be thanked for having 
invented this dainty dish, which has immortalized him, 
for we shall certainly always serve "sandwiches" made 
of no end of things that will combine. The Earl's was 
a piece of meat between two pieces of bread. 

Brpad for sandwiches cuts better when a day old. 
•Cut slices as thin as possible, and remove all crilsts. 



288 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

If butter is used, cream the butter, and spread the bread 
hefore cutting from the loaf. Sandwiches prepared be- 
fore using can be kept fresh by wrapping in damp nap- 
kin, and kept in a cool place. Serve sandwiches piled 
on plate covered with a doily. 

Rolled Bread. 

Use for this, fresh, warm bread cut very thin vrith 
a sharp knife. Spread with creamed butter, and tie 
each one with baby ribbon to keep them in shape. They 
want to be served at once to have the ribbon in condition. 

Bread and Butter Folds. 

Cut slices from loaf as thin and even as possible. 
Spread with creamed butter. Remove crusts, put to- 
gether in pairs, and cut into oblongs, squares or tri- 
angles, as the taste suggests. Any bread you like can 
be used for these folds. The entire wheat, Graham and 
brown breads are all fine. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

For these use hard-boiled eggs. Chop the whites 
fine, and press the yolks through a potato-ricer. Mix 
whites and yolks, season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with Mayonnaise or ereani dressing. Butter 
slices of bread and spread the mixture between. Press 
each piece as you place on top. 

Chopped Ham Sandwiches. 

Prepare bread as for bread and butter folds, and 
spread with .finely chopped cold boiled ham, moistened 
with cream or Mayonnaise dressing. 



J CANAPllS AND SANDWICHES. 289 

Chicken Sandwiches. 

Use cold boiled chicken moistened with Mayonnaise; 
butter the bread with Mayonnaise, and lay "a leaf of 
lettuce on top after spreading with the chicken mix- 
ture. Have lettuce a little larger than the bread, so the 
green will show when top is pressed on. 

Sardine Sandwiches. ^ 

Remove skin and' bones, and mash to fine paste. Add 
equal amount of yolks of hard-boiled eggs pretssed 
through a sieve, and season with lemon juice, salt and 
cayenne. Moisten with olive oil. Spread between slices 
of buttered bread. 

Lobster Sandwiches. 

Mince lobster meat very fine, and add, to it an equal 
amount of hard-boiled yolks of eggs pressed through 
a potato-ricer. Reason with lemon juice, made mus^ 
tard, cayenne and salt, and moisten with cream dress- 
ing. Spread on a large leaf of French curly lettuce, 
roll and tie with ribbon. Serve with brown bread folds. 

Oyster Sandwiches. 

Arrange fried oysters on crisp leaves of lettuee> 
allowing one leaf and two oysters to each sandwich. 
Use Graham breads buttered and prepared ' same as any 
sandwich. A little horseradish added to the butter as 
you cream it makes a nice relish with the oyster. 

Qingei' Sandwiches. 

Prepare bread same as for any sandwich, and lay 
ihih slices of Canton ginger on bread. Press on top. 



A-B enJ^el Gas Ranges 



At Eaty to Clean 
am a China Plate 



290 'scientific cooking. 

Japanese Sandwich. 

Cook figs, until skins are tender. Drain and cool. 
Chop very fine and add an equal amount of ground 
nuts. Prepare bi-ead same as for any sandwich; and 
spread with fruit and nut mixture. Serve at ' ' Japanese 
tea." 

Orange Sandwiches. 

For this purpose use entire wheat bread, twenty-four 
hours old. Spread evenlj' with creahied butter, then 
with orange marmalade and some finely minced nuts 
sprinkled on the marmalade, and top pressed on. 

Cottage Cheese and Cress Sandwiches. 

Chop cress and mix with cheese. Season with salt 
and paprika. Moisten with thick cream. 



GINGERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS. 291 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

QINQERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread. 

^ 1 cup molasses. 1^2. teaspoons soda. 

1 cup sour milk or cream.' 2 teaspoons ginger. 

2% cups flour. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

% cup melted butter. 

Mix together soda, sour milk and molasses. Add 
together all the dry ^ingredients, stirring until well 
mixed. Add milk and molasses, beat vigorously for a 
few moments, and turn into shallow pans. Bake in 
moderate oven twenty-five to thirty minutes. Nice 
served hot. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread. 

1 cup molasses. - 1 egg. 

% cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

'1% teaspoons soda. 2 teaspoons ginger. 

% cup sour milk. %- teaspoon salt. 

Put butter and molasses in saucepan, and cook until 
.boiling-point is reached. Remove from fire, add soda, 
and beat vigorously. Then add milk, egg beaten until 
light, and the flour, ginger and salt mixed well together. 
Bake for fifteen minutes in shaillow tin pans, filling 
pans t-w;o-thirds full: 

Sugar Gingerbread. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1% teaspoons ginger. 
2 teaspoons baking- % cu'p thin cream. 

powder. Vz teaspoon salt. 



292 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beat eggs until light, without separating. Add 
sugar gradually. Mix dry ingredients well, and add 
cream and dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly, turn into 
buttered muffin-tins, and bake in moderate oven. It 
will take about twenty-five minutes* Fill tins about 
half full. 

Ginger Snaps. 

1 cup molasses. . % teaspoon soda. 

■y., cup butter. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

314 cups flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Heat molasses to boiling-point, and pour over the 
shortening. Mix dry ingredients, and add to molasses 
and butter. Chill, and turn one-third of the mixture 
onto well-floured board. Roll as thin as possible ; shape 
with round cutter dipped in flour. Place hear together 
on buttered tins, and bake in moderate oven. Gather 
up trimming, and with more of the mixture continue 
rolling and baking until all are done. Keep dough 
cool while baking. 

Vanilla Wafers. 

14 cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoons cream. 

2 teaspoons v.anilla. 

Cream butter, and add sugar slowly, eggs well 

beaten, cream and vanilla. Mix dry ingredients, and 

add to first mixture. Roll, shape, and bake ' same as 

ginger snaps. /^^JtA^ 7 -A /^^****^ j */ £." F 

Hermits. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup sugar. y^ cup raisins cut into pieces. 

1 egg. '^ teaspoon cinnamon. ^ 

2 tablespoons cream. 14 teaspoon mace. 
1% cups flour. A grating nutmeg. 




GINGERBREAD, COOKIES AND WAFERS. 293 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and then the raisins. 
Mix dry ingrredients and add to first mixture. Roll a 
little, thicker than for vanilla wafers. Shape and bake 
same as vanilla wafers. 

Almond Cookies. 

% cup butter. • Grated rind % lemon. 

2 eggs. 3 tablespoons brandy. 

% cup almonds, blanched 2^4 cups flour, 

and chopped fine. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

% cup sugar. %, teaspoon salt. 

Cfeam butter and add sugar, eggs well beaten, 
almonds, brandy, flour and, baking-powder (if liked, 
a little cinnamon and nutmeg can be added). Roll 
mixture to one-quarter inch in thickness. Shape with 
cut|;er dipped in flour. Bake in slow oven. All small 
, cakes cook more evenly when placed on buttered sheets, 
especially in cooking with gas. 

Chocolate Cookies. 

% cup butter. 2 ounces Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

2 eggs. li Cup milk or cream. 
214 cups flour. % teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and^ eggs beaten 
until light, without separating, chocolate grated. Add 
flour and baking-powder well mixed, and milk, alt^- 
nately. Chill, roll very thin, and shape with round cut- 
ter. Place on buttered tin sheets, and bake in moderate 
oven. 

Nut Cookies. 

2 egg yolks. Whites 2 eggs. 

1 cup light brown sugar. 6 tablespoons flour. 
1 cup chopped nuts. ' 1 teaspoon baking-powder. 

Pinch salt. 



294 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Beat yolks until lemon color, and add sugar, nut 
meats, whites of eggs beaten stif^, flour, baking-powder 
and salt, mixed. Drop from tip of the spoon onto but- 
tered sheet. Spread, and bake in slow oven. 

Sand Tarts. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

1 egg. Blanched almonds. 

1% cups flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and egg well beaten. 
Then add flour mixed with "baking-powder. Chill, toss 
on well-floured board, using half the mixture' at a 
rolling, and roll to one-eighth inch thick. Shape with 
doughnut-cutter, and brush over with white of egg and 
sugar. Shred almonds-, and arrange at equal distances 
round the tart. Place on buttered sheets, and bake 
in slow oven. 

Rolled Wafers. 

% cup butter. % cup milk. 

% cup powdered sugar. % cup bread flour. 

Ys teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, milk drop by drop, 
then the flour and flavoring. Invert a dripping-pan, 
butter, and with a broad-bladed knife spread the mix- 
ture very thin. Crease in squares three inches in size, 
and bake in slow oven until a delicate brown. Remove, 
and roll while warm in cornucopia or tubular shape, 
and tie with narrow ribbon. 

Nut Macaroons. 

Whites 2 eggs. 2 cups pecan-nuts, finely 

2 cups brown sugar. chopped 

' % teaspoon salt. 



GINGERBREAD COOKIES AND WAFERS. 295 

Beat whites ' of eggs until stiff ; add gradually the 
sugar, beating all the while. Fold in the finely chopped 
nut meats, sprinkled with the salt. Drop from tip of 
the sponn on buttered sheets of paper que inch apart. 
Bake in moderate oven until brown. 

Seed Cake. 

Use recipe for cocoanut cookies, u^ing one table- 
spoonful of caraway seed instead of the cocoanut. 



296 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
CAKES. 

THERE are two kinds of cake mixtures, and tke 
numerous varieties of cake all over the world 
come under one of thes^ two heads — cakes with butter 
and cakes without butter. Those without butter include 
all the sponge-cake family, while those with butter in- 
clude the cup and pound cake mixtures. In cake- 
making we want good n material, correct measuring, 
knowledge of how to combine, the ingredients, and - 
proper pans, properly prepared, and, above all, an 
oven with heat so regulated that the cake will be a 
success, for the best prepared cake can be entirely 
spoiled in the baking. The material required is good 
butter, fine granulated sugar, fresh eggs and pastry 
flour. Too much flour will cause the cake to burst on 
top; too little will cause it to fall. 

In cake-baking we make varieties by different icing, 
fruits, nuts, etc., more than we do in the different bat- 
ters we make them 'of. If you have a good recipe for 
a layer cake, you can make no end of different cakes 
by using different frostings, fruits, nuts, and different 
ways of arranging them. 

To Mix Sponge Cake. 

Prepare your pans and set aside. Separate eggs, 
puttmg yolks in mixmg-bowl and whites on platter. 
Measure sugar, sift and measure flour, and add baldng- 
powder to flour. You can sift or-stir thoroughly, grate 



CAKES. 297 

rind and add juice of lemon, or get ready to hand 
whatever flavor you intend to use. If hot water is to 
be used, see to it that there is some on stove 'before 
beginning the work of putting the cake together. Be- 
gin by first beating whites until stiff and dry, then 
beat yolk until thick and lemon color, adding the sugar 
as you beat. Add juice and rind of th^ lemon, the 
boiling water, then fold in the beaten whites and the 
flour. Fold and cut until flour and eggs are ^well in- 
corporated, but no longer. Turn into your prepared 
pans, and place in oven. 

To Mix Butter Cakes. — ^IJse an earthen bowl, if 
possible, for the mixing of butter cakes, and a wooden 
spoon. The spoon without the slits is preferred. Meas- 
ure the dry ingredients, flour, baking-powder, sugar 
and butter, and separate the eggs. If the butter is- 
hard, pour some boiling water in the mixing-bowl and 
let it stand for a few moments. Turn out and put the 
butter in. at once. Cut into small pieces, and let it 
stand for a few moments to soften before creaming. 
Stir butter until soft and very creamy, then add sugar 
slowly and continue the stirring. Separate the eggs, 
and if yolks are to be used, beat them until thick, and 
whites until stiff and dry. Add and fold in yolks, then 
whites, folding lightly, then the, flour in same way. 
When all ingredients are added, beat vigorously for a 

, few moments, and turn into pans that have been pre- 
pared, by buttering and lining with paraffin paper. 

If this method is used in cake-making, the work is 
quickly accomplished, and one measiire-cup will answer 

, for all, by first measuring flour, sugar, butter, and 
then the milk or water, whichever , is to be used. A 
fine,-grained cake is made by long beating, and you 
must use care to have the butter and sugar well creamed. 



298 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

for this is the foundation of the cake. The sugar wants 
to be dissolved in the butter. Never stir cake after 
the final beating. 

Fruit, when added to cake, is usually floured to 
prevent its settling to the bottom. This precaution is 
not necessary if added directly after the sugar, which 
is usually done in the case of dark fruit-cake. Citron 
is first cut into slices, then into strips, floured and put 
in between layers of the cake, mixture/ Raisins are 
■cleaned, seeded and cut (not chopped). The raisins 
and currants come in packages cleaned and ready for 
use. 

To BuTTEB AND FiLL PANS. — Put. butter in small 
saucepan, and place on warm part of range where it 
will melt and salt settle to bottom. Use soft piece of 
paper, and rub the pan so that every part will be well 
buttered. Line with Soft paper, (paraffin is the best) ; 
this protects bottom of cake in (jase oven is a little hot, 
and makes it come out of pan easily, and gives a nice 
surface for the frosting. In lining only cover the bot- 
tom of pan; it is not necessary to butter paper if pan 
is well buttered ; as soon as the heat of the oven strikes 
it, the butter strikes right through the paper. Fill 
pans two-thirds full of the cake mixture, and draw the 
dough well to the sides and corners, leaving a slight 
depression in center: this will give a flat top. 

To Bake Cake. — The baking of cake is as impor- 
tant as the mixing, and the best of cake is often spoiled 
in the baking. The gas stove is the way to be sure of 
your cake, as the cook can control the heat to any de- 
gree she desires, if she is at all experienced. The oven 
thermometer has not as yet proved a success, while the 
hand of an experienced cook is' a never-failing guide. 

In baking 4;ake a good way to do is to divide the 



CAKES. , ' 2^9 

time required to bake the cakes into quarters. During 
the first quarter it begins to rise; during the second 
it continues rising and begins to brown ; the third quar- 
ter it continues browning : the fourth quarter it finishes 
browning and shrinks from sides of pans. Look at cake 
often during the baking, opening and closing dpor care- 
fully, so as not to Jar the cake. Pound cake' is tested 
by pressing the finger lightly on top. If, cake feels 
firm to touch and the finger leaves fio indentation, the 
cake IS done, and it will be safe to remove it from the 
oven. ' If your oven is too slow, the cake will run over 
the sides of pans and be coarse-grained; on the other 
hand, should the oven be too hot, the cake will crust 
before it has fully risen, and the continued rising will 
cause it to crack on tpp and will make an unsightjly 
loaf. This will also occur if there is too much flour. 
For the family of small and layer cakes the oven wants 
to be hotter. , 

If cakes - are to be frosted, have frosting rfeady. 
When cakes are done baking, take froln oven, remove 
from pan, and rest on piece of brown paper. Turn 
out each layer as yovi are ready, and frost. Turn loaf 
cakes out on wire (?ake-rest, and cool. The cake being 
a little warm doe^ not make any difference in the 
frosting, but it does not have to be hot; but in most 
eases I find the warm cake is the best. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

6 egg -whites and yolKs, Grrated juice and rind 

beaten separately. Va iemon. 

2 cups sugar. % cup boiling water.' 

2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Pinch, saiti ' 

Have eggs cold. Separate ; place -yolks in mixing- 
bowl and whites on platter. Measure flour and baking- 



A-B GAS RANGES ""'"" ""^'"""^ 



people 



300 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



powder; mix well. Measure sugaf, grate the thin out^ 
side of lemon, and add juice to it. Have pans but- 
tered and lined. Beat, whites until stiff and dry, and 
yolks until thick and lemon color. Add lemon juice 
and rind, then the third cup of boiling water. Fold in 
the whites, then the flour. Fold and beat until well 
incorporated. Turn into pan and bake in moderate 
oven. This is good for loaf or for sponge sheets, to 
be rolled or cut into fancy shapes. If a jelly roll is to 
be made, moisten towel and turn cake on it. Spread 
with jelly and roll at once while still warm. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs, yolks and whites 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

beaten separately. 1 teaspoon grated rind of 
1- cup sugar. lemon. 

2 tablespoons cdrnstarch, Pinch salt. 

and flour to finish fill- 3 tablespoons cold water. 

ing the cup. 

Beat whites until stiff and dry, and yolks until 
thick and lemon color. i\.dd sugar and beat again. 
Then add water and grated lemon peel. Fold in whites 
of eggs, then the flour, and cornstarch and baking- 
powder sifted togetljer. Mix all together thoroughly 
by folding. Turn into buttered and lined pans. Bake 
thirty minutes. 

Angel Pood. ' 

1 cup whites of eggs.' 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

1% cups sugar. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat whites until frothy, add cream of tartar, and 
continue beating until stiff and dry. Then add sugar 
gradually. Fold . in flour and salt, , and add vanilla. 
Tiirn into a square or round pan without buttering. 



CAKES. 301 

and bake for forty to fifty minutes in slow oven'. The 
■cake must not begin to brown until it has been in oven 
for twenty-five minutes ; b'y this time it will have raised 
to its full height. The point in the angel food is in 
the baking, but with the gas cooking of the present day 
this can be accomplished perfectly. In preparing the 
flour for angel food I only sift once, as I consider it 
time wasted to sift oftener. 

' Sunshine Cake. 

Whites 10 eggs. 1 teaspoon grated 'rind of ' 

1% cups powder^ sugar. lemon. 

Yolks 7 eggs. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Beat whites until frothy, add cream of tartar, and 
continue beating imtil stiff and dry. Add the grated 
rind of the lemon, add sugar, folding in lightly, tlieo 
yolks beaten until thick and lemon color; then the flour. 
Bake in angel food pan for forty minutes in slow oven, 
allowing the first fifteen minutes for the rising. Cool 
cake with pan reversed, same as angel food. 

Lady=fingers. 

Whites 3 eggs. % cup powdered sugar. 

Yolks 2 eggs. , % cup flour. 

y2 teaspoon vanilla. Pinch salt. 

Beat whites until stiff and dry, add sugar gradually, 
and continue beating. Then add yolks beaten until 
very thick. Add flavoring, and fold in flour and salt, 
well mixed. Then, with pastry bag and tube, shape into 
four and one-half inches long and one inch wide, mak- 
ijig them narrow in the center on a tin sheet, covered' 
with unbuttered paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
and bake eight minutes in rather moderate oven. Ke- 
move with broad, thin-bladed knife. 



302 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Sponge Drops. 

' Use lady-finger rtiixture, and drop from point of 
spoon on tin sheet covered with paper. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and bake same as lady-fingera. Two 
can be put together by using whites of eggs \Aliile they 
are a little warm. 

Jelly Roll. 

3 eggs. 1 rounding teaspoon baking- 
1 cup sugar. powder. ' 

1 tablespoon water. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 cup flour. Pinch salt. 

Separate eggs, beat whites until stiff and dry, and 
yolks until thick and lemon color. Add sugar to yolks, 
and continue beating, then add the water, then the but- 
ter, then the beaten whites, then the flour with baking- 
powder well mixed. Fold and beat until all is well 
blended, and turn into a buttered and pa,pered pan, 
spreading evenly on the bottom, using care not to have 
the cake too thick when it comes out. Turn onto a 
cloth slightly dampened or paper sprinkled with pow- 
dered sugar. Cut a strip from edge and spread with 
jelly that has been warmed and beaten to a consistency 
to spread easily, and roll. After rolling roll, cloth or 
paper should remain around roll untill well shaped be- 
fore removing. Jam can be used instead of the jelly. 
A marmalade made of figs and raisins, with lemon juice 
added, is fine for this roll, and is good food for children. 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER, 303 



CHAPTER XXXIll 
CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 

One-egg Cake. 

Vi cup butter. 1 egg. 

% cup sugar. 1% cups flour. 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Cream butter and add sugar gradually, then the 
milk with two tablespoons of flour, next the egg well 
beaten, then the flour with baking-powder well mixed 
with it. Bake thirty minutes in shallow pan, and 
cover with cold orange or lemon frosting, or serve cut 
into squares as a plain cake. In cooking in high alti- 
tudes, use less butter and more flour and eggs, espe- 
cially in baking loaf cakes; but cakes baked in layers 
can be made richer. 

Rocky Mountain Cake. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
% cup butter., % cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 3 eggs. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Cream butter and add sugar slowly, and stir until 
well creamed, then add milk with two tablespoons of 
flour, then yolks of eggs well beaten, 'then whites beaten 
until stiff, then flour with baking-powder and salt. 
Beat thoroughly, and bake in loaf or in two layers, and 
put together with orange frosting. 



304 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Orange Cake. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoons baklng- 

1 cup sugar. powder. 
% cup milk. Pinch salt. 

2 cups flour. 2 eggs well beaten. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and continue stir- 
ring. Add milk, with two tablespoons of flour, then 
the eggs beaten until very light, without separating; 
next the flour, with baking-powder and salt mixed well 
together. Bake in two square layer pans, fill with 
orange filling, and cover with orange frosting. 

Okange Filling. — One-half cup sugar, two and one- 
half tablespoons flour, grated rind from half an orange, 
one-fourth cup orange juice, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
yolks of two eg^s slightly beaten, and a small piece .of 
butter. Mix all, and cook in double boiler until thick. 

Orange Frosting. — Grated riad of one orange, with 
two tablespoons of orange juice, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one teaspoon of good brandy, yolk of one egg. 
Beat egg until light and thick; add brandy, then the 
orange juice and grated rind and lemon juice. Beat 
in confectioners' sugar until stiff enough to spread. 

Delicate White Cake. 

Whites 4 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

, % cup butter. 2 cups flour, sifted. 

y2 cup water. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Pinch salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating all the 
while, then add the water slowly, with two tablespoons 
of flour. Fold in the well-beaten whites of eggs, then 
add the remaining two cups of flour with baking- 
powder mixed with it. Fold until well mixed, and 
beat hard for a moment, and turn into buttered and 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 305 

papered pans (square, ones preferred), and place in 
moderate oven and bake nntil cake leaves side of pans. 
Put- together with opera caramel frosting. As the cara- 
mel cools and gets hard, mark top with thread where 
it is to be cut. This prevents the icing from breaking 
as you cut the cake. 

Chocolate Cake. ' 

2 eggs. Yi cup milk. ' 

Vs {;up butter. ■ 2 teaspoons baking-powder. • 

' 1% cups flour. J 2 ounces grated chocolate. ' 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Separate eggs, beat whites until stiff and drj', and 
add yolks until thick. Cream butter, add sugar slowly, 
and yolks of the beaten eggs. Add milk and flour mixed 
with, the baking-powder and whites of eggs, then the 
grated chocolate and vanilla. Bake in buttered and 
papered pan for thirty-five minutes. Cover with boiled 
frosting flavored with vanilla. 

Devil's Food. 

Vi cup butter. 21^4 cups flour. 

2 cups sugar. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

4 eggs. 2 squares Baker's chocolate. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Separate eggs, beat whites until stiff and yolks until 
thick. Cream butter, and add one aup of the sugar.. 
Add the remaining sugar to the beaten yolks, combine 
the mixture, and add the -milk alternately with the 
flour and baking-powder mixed; then the beaten whites 
of the eggs, chocolate melted and vanilla.. Bake fort3[- 
five minutes in angel food oake-pan, and cover with, 
white mountain icing. 



306 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake. 

Follow rule for chocolate cake, and as soon as cake 
is taken from oven, having bottom up, cover with marsh- 
mallows pulled open with the fingers, but do not plill 
them entirely apart.: Th^e sofjt inside of the marsh- 
mallow will adhere to the warm surface of the eake,^ 
and pour over all a chocolate frosting flavored with 
vanilla, 

Orang:e Puffs. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1 cup sugar. Yolks 3 



2 cups flour. 1 whole egg. 

% cup milk. Grated rind % orange. . 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and beat all the 
while. "When very creamy add milk a little at a time, 
and the eggs beaten very light without separating, then 
the grated orange peel, and, lastly, the flour and baking- 
powder mixed together. Ice tops with orange frosting. 

Lemon Queens. 

Y^ cup butter. Yolks 4 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups flour. 

Grated rind 1 lemon. % teaspoon soda. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. Whites 4 eggs. 
Pinch salt. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and continue beat- 
ing. Then add the grated rind of the lemon with the 
juice, then the yolks of eggs well beaten, then the flour 
with soda mixed with it, then the whites beaten very 
stiff and dry. Bake in small tins until done, turn out, 
and frost bottom with white mountain frosting. 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 307 



Pound Cake. 

1 pound butter. 10 eggs, whites and yolks 

1 pound sugar. beaten separately. 

1 pound flour. % teaspoon mace. 

% cup brandy. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating well be- 
tween each addition. When very light and creamy, add 
yolks beaten until thick arid lemon color, then the 
brandy and mace, then the whites of eggs beaten stiff 
and dry, then the flour. Beat vety bard for a few 
moments'. Bake in deep pan one hour and a quarter in 
sie-w OTen, or, if wanted for fancy ornamental Cake, 
bake in iayer cake-pans that have been buttered and 
lined with paper. Any pan in which pound cake is 
baked wants to Jje buttered and lined. The sheets of 
pound cake are cut into fancy shapes with small cutters, 
and glazed yntla. egg and powdered sugar, and iced 
with fancy icings tinted with coloring. 

Wedding Cake. 

1 pound butter. M teaspoon cloves. 

1 pound sugar. 3 pounds raisins. 

1 pound flour. 3 pounds currants. 

12 esgs. 1 pound citron, cut fine. 

2 tef^ oons cinnamon. 1 pound figs, chopped. 
Va t..iirfpooD allspice. % cup brandy. 

] teaspoon nutmeg. % cup wine. 

1 teaspoon mace. " V> cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream butter, add sugar, and beat thoroughly. 
Separate eggs, beat yolks untiljemon color and whites 
until stiff and dry, and add to first inixture. Add flour 
{excepting one-third cup to dredge the fruit) mixed 
and sifted with the spices and soda, then add the 



308 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

brandy, molasses and wine; then add the fruit, except 
the sliced citron, which is put in layers as you fill the 
pans. When all is in except the citron, beat very hard 
fdr a few moments. Put into brick-shaped pans, add- 
ing the citron. Steam same as fruit-cake. This cake 
keeps any length of time. 

Perfection Cake. 

% cup butter. 3 teaspoons baking-powder. 

1% cups sugar. . Yolks 4 eggs. 

%. cuip cold water. Whites 4 eggs. 

.1% cups flour. % cup almonds, blanched 

% cup cornstarch. and shredded. 

Pinch salt in eggs. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and beat until very 
light., Add water, mix and sift flou¥, balcing-powder 
and cornstarch. Add yolks of eggs beaten very light, 
then whites beaten stiff and dry, then the flour, corn- 
starcb and baking-powder. Put into buttered pans 
lined with paper, sprinkle with the shredded almonds 
and powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for 
'thirty-five or forty minutes. This will make two 
squares, and is a very> delicate cake. 

Citron Cake. 

% cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons brandy. 

3 eggs. 1% cups citron, cut thin 

% cup water. and shrei^'ded. 

2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, and beat well. 
Then add beaten yolks of eggs, water, whites beaten 
stiff, flour with baking-powder, then the brandy and 
citron. Bake in loaf. 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 309 

Nut Cakes. 

% pound English walnut Vo teaspoon baking-powder. 

meats, chopped fine. 1 galtspoon salt. 

% pound brown sugar. Vs cup flour. ' 

3 whites of eggs. 

Pound _ nut meats and mix with flour. Beat egg 
whites until stifif and yolks until lemon color ajad thick. 
Drop on tin sheet on buttered paper, allowing table- 
spoonful to each cake. 

Gold Cake. 

1/2 cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
1/^ cup water. Yolks 6 eggs. 

Grated rind % orange. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, . water little at a 
time, and stir in two tablespoons of the flour. Then 
add the yolks beaten until thick and light, then the 
orange peel and flour, and beat hard for a few moments. 
Bake in loaves or layers. If baked in loaves, sliced 
citron is nice in it. 

My Lady Baltimore. 

% cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

I'cup sugar. Whites 4 eggs. 

% cup water. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Bitter almond to flavor. 

Follow directions for mixing white e&ke, and bake 
in two square layer pans buttered and papered. 

Filling for Lady Baltimore Cake. 

2 cups of granulated Whites 2 eggs, beaten 
sugar. until stiff and dry. 

% cup water. 1 % cup chopped nut meatsi 

, % teaspoon cream of % cup chopped raisins. 

Tartar. % pound candied cherries, 

% cup chopped figs. cut in. halves. 



310 SCIEOSrTIFIC COOKING. 

Add cream of tartar to sugar, and stir; then add 
water^and stir again, so sugar will not adhere to bot- 
tom of saucepan. Place on hot part of range and cook 
until it threads. Remove at once and pour slowly on 
the beaten whites of eggs. Beat until cool and it will 
spread nicely. Add fruit and nuts to enough of the' 
icing to spread between the layers. Cover top and sides 
with remaining icing, and dot in lines on top ajid sides, 
with the candied cherries. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Use rule for^ Lady Baltimore, and divide batter 
when finished into two parts. Color one-half a pale 
lavender and the other a delicate pink with Burnet's 
colorings, using the damask rose for the pink, and 
always be careful in coloring food not to get color too 
deep. Frost this cake with lemon frosting. 

Cream Cakes. 

% cup butter. i eggs. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 cup flour. 

Place water and butter in saucepan on hot part of 
the range. As soon as boiling-point is reached, add 
flour all at once and stir rapidly until well mixed. 
Remove from fire and add unbeaten eggs, beating be- 
tween -each addition until well mixed and blended. 
Drop by spoonfuls on well-buttered sheets, allowing 
one and one-half inches between. Shape with spoon-, 
have as nearly circular as possible. Have the mixture 
slightly piled in the center. Bake in moderate oven for 
about twenty-five minutes, or it may require thirty, ac- 
cording to heat of oven. "With a pointed, sharp knife 
make a cut large enough to admit of filling. Pill with 
cream filling flavwred with vanilla. The above amount 



CAKES MADE WITH BUTTER. 311 

will make from fifteen to eighteen cakes, according to 
size. If the cakes are taken from oven before thor- 
oughly done, they will fall. 

Eclairs- 

Use cream cake mixture, and shape four inches long 
and one inch wide. This is done by using pastry bag" 
and tube. Bake for twenty-five minutes, in moderate 
oven. Split on side and fill with any cream you like — 
vanilla, chocolate or coffee cream filling. Frost with 
fondant frosting by dipping eclairs in while frosting 
is hot, and, if chocolate is desired, add melted chocolate 
..to hot fondant. 

Fruit Cake. 

% pound butter. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

Vfe pound flour. % cup preserves. 

% pound brown sugar. % cup whisky. 

5 eggs. 1 teaspoon each of cloves, 

% pound cherries. cinnamon, mace and 

3 pounds raisins. nutmeg. 

'^'\ nnimr'"'"*'" % pound candied pineapple, 

% pound each of pecans, walnuts and almonds. 

Follow rule for making pound cake. Sift spices and 
baking-powder with flour, and chop nuts fine. They 
can be ground in food-fchopper or cut with sharp knife. 



312 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINQS. 

Cream Filling I. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups scalded milk. 

Vs cup flour. Vs teaspoon salt' 

Yolks 3 eggs. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs beaten slightly, and 
reserve half of the milk cold and mix with the above. 
Pour on the scalded milk. Return to double boiler and' 
cook for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time until the 
mixture becomes thick; after that, every few moments. 
Cool and flavor. Should there be lumps, strain through 
a sieve. 

Chocolate Cream Filling. 

Add two squares of unsweetened chocolate (melted 
in saucepan) to Cream Filling I. 

Cream Filling with Strawberries. 

1 cup whipping cream. , White 1 egg. 

% cup powdered sugar. i.^ cup strawberries'. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Beat cream until thick to bottom with Dover egg- 
beater. Add sugar and white of egg beaten until stiff 
and dry. The strawberries crushed fine with the lemon 
juice. 

Date Filling. 

1^,^ cups dates, cut into % cup pecan-nuts, cut fine. 

small pieces. i^ cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup whipped cream. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 



CAKE FILLINOS AND FROSTINGS. 313 

Pour hot water over dates, remove stones and dry, 
perfectly dry, as any water adhering to them will spoil 
the eream. Cut, add nut meats, lemon juiee and sugar. 
Fold into the whipped cream, and spread between lay- 
ers of cake. 

Cocoanut Pilling. 

Whites 2 eggs. Enough powdered sugar to 

1 cup fresh-grated coeoatautj. make It spread. 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff, and add sugar until 
it will spread nicely. Spread over cake, and sprinkle 
thickly with the cocoanut. 

Chocolate Pilling. 

3 squares chocolate. 2 tablespoons milk. 

IVi cups powdered sugar. 2 egg yolks. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add milk and half 
the sugar. Beat yolks slightly, add remaining half-cup 
of sugar to eggs, and combine the twpi Turn in double 
boiler and cook all until it thickens, stirring all the 
while to keep the mixture smooth. Cool, flavor and 
spread. 

Lemon Pilling. 

1 cup sugar. Vi cup lemon, juic*. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 eggs. 

Grated rind 1 lemon. Butter size ot walnut. 

Mix sugar, flour, grated rind of lemon and lemon 
juice, and egg beaten slightly. Put butter in sauce- 
pan, and when melted add the mixture, using care 
that it does not catch on bottom of saucepan. When 
boiling-point is reached, the mixture will be done. Re- 
move and cool, then spread. 



314 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Fig Filling. 

% pound figs, chopped 14 'cup boilings water. 

fine. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. , % cup nut meats, chopped. 

Rim figs through meat-chopper. Cook until skins 
are tender. Add sugar and lemon juice. Mix well, 
and spread with broad knife. 

Red Raspberry Frosting. 

One cup of red raspberries, strained through a fine 
strainer to free from seeds, and one tablespoon of 
lemon juice. To fruit juice add enough confectioners' 
sugar to spread. The sugar is not measured, but always 
sifted until free from lumps. Spread with broad-bladed 
knife between cake layers and on top. 

Strawberry Frosting. 

Make same as the red raspberry, selecting a bright 
red berry to have the frosting a good color. Blackberry, 
currant and any fruit juice can be prepared in the 
same way. 

Orange Frosting, 

Grated rind 1 orange. 2 tablespoons orange juice. 

Juice %• lemon. 1 tablespoon brandy or 

Yolk 1 egg. sherry wine. 

Confectioner's sugar. 

Add grated rind to fruit juice and brandy, and let 
stand for half an hour. Strain and add the beaten 
yolk of egg. Add enough - confectioner's sugar to 
spread nicely. Stir hard and rapidly until it becomes 
glossy. This can be used between layers and on top. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND PROSTINGS. BIS' 

Lemon Frosting. 

Prepare same as orange frosting, using the grated 
rind of the lemon and the juice with the tablespoonful 
of brandy. 

Plain White Frosting. 

White 1 egg. 1 teaspoon vanilla, or a little 

1 tablespoon cold water. grated rind of lemon with 

1 cup confectioner's sugar. tablespoon of the juice. 

Beat white of egg unjtil stiff ; add water and sugar. 
Beat very hard until smooth and glossy-looking. Strain 
rind out of lemon juice, and add to the frosting. Use 
more .sugar if necessary, and spread with broad knife. 

Pineapple Filling. 

1 cup whipped cream. 1 cup grated pineapple. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

Mix ingredients and spread between layers of cake. 
Frost top with plain white frosting. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

•2 squares Baker's choco- 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

late. Pinch salt. 

% cup scalded cream. I teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Confectioner's sugar to spread. 

Melt chocolate over hot water ; add cream, salt, yolks 
•of eggs arid butter. Stir in sugar, and continue the 
stirring for a few moments until glpssy and the right 
consistency to spread, then add vanilla. 

White Mountain Cream. 

2 cups sugar. % teaspoon cream of 
% cup boiling Water. tartar. 

Whites 2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

stifl and dry. Few grains salt in whiter 

% tablespoon lemon juice. of eggs. 



316 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Put sugar in saucepan, add cream of tartar, pour on 
water, and stir well to dissolve sugar as nearly as pos- 
sible. Heat to boiling-point. Boil without stirring 
until it threads when droppted from point oi spoon- 
Remove from fire as soon as the thread appears, and 
pour gradually on the well-beaten whites. Continue 
beating until right consistency to spread. Add flavor- 
ing, and spread on cake. Smooth with broad'-bladed 
knife. If frosting is not beaten enough,! it will run. 
If beaten too long, add a few drops of lemon juice or 
boiling water or cream. If candied cherries or nuts 
are to be used, place them on as soon as the frosting 
is spread. 

Boiled Frosting. 

1% cups sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

% cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon vanilla. " 

i/i teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Proceed same as for white mountain cream, and 
beat until it will spread nicely. 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. 

To boiled frosting add two squares of melted choco- 
late as soon as the syrup is added to whites of eggs. 

Brown Sugar Frosting. 

Make same as boiled- frosting, using brown sugar in 
pla"ce of white. Add one-half cup of nuts cut fine, 
then it is a brown sugar nut frosting. 

Maple Sugar Frosting. 

1 pound soft maple sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

V2 cup boiling water. 

Break sugar in small pieces and put in sauce with 
boiling water. Stir, occasionally until sugar is dissolved. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FEOSTINGS. 317 

Boil without stirring until it will thread when dropped 
from point of spoon. Pour on well-beaten whites of 
eggs gradually. Continue beating until consistency to 
spread. 

Opera Caramel Frosting:. 

2VL> cups light brown sugar. 1 cup cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Boil ingredients together in smooth saucepan until 
a ball can- be formed when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from fire and beat until right consistency to 
spread. Pout between layers of cake and cover cake 
■with it. 

Ornamental Frosting. 

Whites 3 eggs. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Sifted confectioner's sugar. 

Put eggs in large-sized bowl. Add two tablespoons 
of sugar, and beat three minutes, using a small wooden 
spoon. Repeat until one and one-half cups of sugar 
have been used. Add lemon juice as mixture thickens, 
a few dr,ops at a time. Continue adding sugar by 
spoonfuls until thick enough to spread. This is de- 
termined by taking up some of the mixture on the 
back of your wooden spooii which you are using for 
the beating, and with a case-knife make a cut through 
the mixture, and if the knife makes a clean cut and 
the frosting remains parted, it is of the right con- 
sistency. Spread cake thinly with this frosting, rest 
until the frosting hardens, and put on a thicker layer, 
having the mixture a little thicker than for the first 
coat, and then crease for cutting. To remaining frost- 
ing add enough more of confectioner 's sugar that when 
pressed through pastry-bag it will hold its shape. With 



318 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

the pastry-bag and the different variety of tube, the 
cake can be decorated to taste. 

To Glaze Cakes. — Beat white, of an egg slightly, 
adding one tablespoon powdered sugar to white of one 
egg. Apply with brush to tops and sides of cakes 
that are to be dipped. Rest overnight before dipping. 

To Dip Cakes. — Melt fondant over hot water. Color 
and flavor as desired. Lower cake in fondant to three- 
fourths depth of cake. Remove from fork and rest 
on board. Decorate with nuts, cherries, angelica oi 
candied violets. 



FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 319 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 

"Sweets to the sweet." — Shakespewre. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

% pound grated cocoanut. 6 ounces sugar. 

Whites 2 eggs. 1 spoonful glucose. 

Cook cocoanut sugar and glucose in double boiler 
until it sticks to spoon. Add whites of eggs, and cook 
xintil mixture sticks to fingers. Spread in wet pan, 
■cover with wet paper, and chill on ice. Dip hands 
in cold water and shape into balls. Bake on tin sheet 
greased with white wax* twenty minutes. — Muth's Con- 
fectioner. 

Macaroons. 

% pound almond paste. Whites 3 eggs. 

, 1^ pound powdered sugar. 

Work together, on board or marble slab, the almond 
paste and sugar until well blended, then add whites 
of eggs gradually, and work until mixture is perfectly 
smooth. The hand is used first, then the palette knife. 
Shape, using a pastry-bag and tube, on a tin sheet 
covered with buttered paper, leaving one inch between. 
The confectioners drop from tip of spoon in small 
pile, and do it very rapidly. Bake for fifteen minutes 
in slow oven. When taken from oven invert paper 
and lay on a cloth wrung out of cold water, and they 
will slip off easily. 



A-B GAS RANGES ""-^X"""' 

320 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Almond Macaroons. 

Sprinkle the above mixture with almbnds blanched 
and chopped fine. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup grated cocoanut 
with enough of the milk of the cocoanut to form a. 
plain paste. Shape and bake same as almond. 

Hickory-nuts and filberts% are both used for maca- 
roons. With filberts you use half blanched almonds. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Clean outside of black date. With a pointed knife 
remove the stone. Fill cavities with English walnuts, 
pecan-nuts or blanched almonds, and press back tO' 
original shape. Roll in granulated sugar, pile in pretty 
rows on fancy dish, and serve. Dates are also stuffed 
with Neufchatel cheese, and nuts mixed with the cheese, 
forming rolls size of the stone and pressed into shape. 

Molasses Candy. 

2 cups molasses. 1 teaspoon cream of 

3 cups sugar. tartar. ^ 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. % teaspoon soda. 

1 cup boiling water. y^ cup butter, melted 

Put molasses, sugar and water in saucepan, and 
place on hot part of range. When boiling-point is 
reached, add cream of tartar, and stir until well mixed. 
Boil and try in cold water to see when it is done. Stir 
all the time during the last part of the boiling. When 
it is brittle, and just before taking from the fire, add 
the soda and butter. Pour on buttered pans and pull. 
Add vanilla as you pull, or you can use wintergreen 
or any flavor desired. 



FANCY CAKES AND CANDIES. 321 

Hoarhound Candy. 

3% cups sugar. A cube (Jf hoarhound, 

2 cups boiling water. 3 inches square. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. - 

Separate hoarhound in pieces, pour the boiling water 
over it, and let it steep for two minutes. Strain through 
double of cheesecloth. Pour into saucepan with sugar 
and cream of^ tartar. Boil until it is brittle when, 
dropped in cold water. Pour into well-buttered pan, 
and as it cools mark in squares the size of caramels. 

Butter=scotch. 

2 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

1 cup molasses. ^4 cup boiling water. 

% cup butter. 

Boil all together until brittle when tried in cold 
water. Turn into well-buttered pan, and with a sharp- 
pointed knife mark into squares. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

3 tablespoons butter. Vs cup milk. 

2 cups Orleans molasses. 4 squares Baker's chocolate. 
2 cups brown sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Put butter into saucepan, and when melted add 
molasses, sugar and milk. Stir ' untU all are well 
blended, and when boiling-point is reached, add choco- 
late and continue stirring until chocolate is melted. 
Boil until a firm ball is f owned on the tips of the- 
fingers when tried in cold water. Take from fire, and 
add vanilla. Turn onto buttered pan, and as it begins 
to harden cut into inch cubes. 

Ice-cream Candy. 

4 cups sugar. Vo teaspoon, cream of tartar. 
1 tablespoon vinegar. % cup boiling water. 



322 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Boil without stirring until brittle when dropped in 
cold water. Tuyn on well-buttered platter, and cool 
until you can handle ; as you pull, add vanilla. Con- 
tinue pulling until white and glossy. 

Nut Candy. 

1^^ cups nuts. 1 pound sugar. 

Use either English walnuts or shellbark hickory- 
muts, or our own native black walnut. Cover bottom 
of buttered shallow pan or platter with the nuts to 
be used. Put sugar in smooth frying-pan, and melt 
to syrup, stirring all the time, and using care that it 
does not adhere to sides of pan. Remove as soon as 
melted, before it caramelizes, and pour evenly over the 
-nuts. As soon as it begins to harden, mark off in bars 
or squares. Peanuts can be used for this candy. You 
will then call it peaffut bars. 

Chocolate Cream Candy. 

3 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons butter. — 

1 cup milk. 3 squares chocolate. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Put butter in saucepan. When melted, add sugar 
and milk. Heat to boiling-point, and add chocolate. 
Stir until chocolate is melted. Boil about fifteen 
minutes. Eemove from fire, add vanilla, and beat until 
mixture becomes creamy and a little sugary round 
edges of saucepan. Pour in buttered pan and mark 
in squares. 

Maple Sugar Candy. 

1 pound maple sugar. % cup boiling water. 

Va cup cream. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Break sugar in pieces and put in saucepan with 
cream and water. Boil rapidly until a soft ball is 



FAN.Cy CAKES AND CANDIES. 323 

formed when tried in cold water. Remove from fire 
and beat until creamy. Pour into buttered tins, cool, 
and mark into squares. 

Maple Sugar with Nuts. 

Use same recipe as the above, beat until creamy, 
and add pecan-nuts (about one cup) just as you pour 
it into the buttered tin. You can use shellbark hickory- 
nuts or English walnuts if preferred. 

Creamed Walnuts. 

White 1 egg. 1 pound confectioner's 

y.i tablespoon cold water. sugar. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. English walnut meats. 

Place water, egg and vanilla in bowl, and beat until 
thoroughly blended. Add sugar gradually until stiff 
enough to knead, shape in small balls, flatten, and place 
walnuts on one or both sides.. 

Peppermints. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

7 drops oil of peppermint. 

Put sugar and water into saucepan, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Boil rapidly for from ten to twelve 
minutes. Remove from fire, add peppermint, and beat 
until of consistency to drop from tip of spoon on but- 
tered paper. 

To Boil Sugar for Confections. 

To prepare fondant,- which is the basis of all French 
candy, an amateur really needs a syrup thermometer. 
.The professional is able to tell when the syrup is right 
by the sound and the size of the bubbles as they rise 
to the top ; but with a thermometer you know wlien it 
reaches 238° F., when it is ready to be poured on the 
slab ' for working and creaming. 



V 

324 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



White Fondant. 



2% pounds sugar. 1% cups hot water. 

% teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Put ingredients in granite stewpan. Stir until 
sugar is dissolved, place on range, and bring to 
the boiling-point. Boil without stirring until, when 
tried in cold water, a soft ball is formed that will keep 
its shape. Keep the sugar that adheres to the side of 
the saucepan washed off, either with the hand dipped 
in cold water and passed quickly round the saucepan 
Just above the syilip, or by washing with a piece of 
■cheesecloth dipped in cold water. If this is done 
■quickly, it can be done with the fingers without burn- 
ing them. Have ready a marble slab oiled with a little 
good olive oil, and as soon as the "soft ball" is reached, 
pour slowly on slab. Let stand a few moments to cool, 
Ijut do not let it become cold. Scrape to one end of 
slab, and work with wooden spatula (or paddle) until 
white and creamy, and then knead with the hands until 
perfectly smooth. Put into a wide-mouthed glass jar 
■or a bowl, and cover with oiled paper to entirely ex- 
■clude the air, or a crust will form on top. Rest it for 
twenty-four hours, when it will be ready for use. 

Coffee Fondant. 

2V2 pounds sugar. Vs cup ground coffee. 

li/J> cups cold water. 14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Place coffee and water in saucepan, and bring 
slowly to boiling-point. Strain through double of 
cheesecloth, resting on fine strainer. Add to the 
strained coffee the sugar and cream of tartar. Boil 
and treat' same as white fondant. 



FANCY cakes' AND CANDIES. 325 

Maple Fondant. 

1% pounds maple sugar. 1 cup hot water. 

1 pound granulated sugar. % teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Break sugar into pieces as small as possible to have 
it dissolve more quickly. Boil and treat same as white 
fondant. 

Mint Creams. 

Melt fondant over hot water, flavor with a few drops 
of oil of peppermint, and color if desired. Drop from 
tip of spoon on oiled paper. There are rubber moulds 
xised by confectioners, but these are too expensive for 
home candy-making, and by a little practice one can 
shape them very nicely from the point ^f the spoon. 

"Wintergreen, clove, orange or cinnamon can. be pre- 
pared in the same way as the above, using the different 
colored pastes, according to the flavor you are using. 

Dipped Nuts. 

Melt, flavor and color fondant; dip any kind of nut 
meat, rising the nuts for centers. English walnuts, 
pecan-nuts, almonds and filberts are all prepared in the 
^ame way. 

Syrup for Glace Nuts and Fruits. 

2 cups sugar. % cup boiling watef. ■ 

1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Place ingredients in saucepan. Stir well, and place 
on stove where it will boil. Boil without stirring until 
syrup takes on a golden color. ("Wash off sugar from 
sides of saucepan while cooking, same as for fondant.) 
IRemove saucepan from fire, and rest "in pan of cold 
water to stop the cooking instantly. Take from the 
cold water and place in pan of hot water during the 
dipping. Use a long hat-pin to dip nuts, putting them 
in the syrup so every part is covered. If you are using 



326 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

a syrup thermometer for preparing this syrup, it will 
register 310° F. when it becomes discolored. There are 
eleven stages for boiling syrup, but in preparing candy 
for home consumption it is only necessary for the^ ama- 
teur to learn fdwr of them. Example: The "thread" 
for boiled icings, "soft ball ""for fondant, the "crack" 
for glace fruits and nuts, and the "caramel" for cus- 
tard and different desserts in which caramel is used. 

aiace Fruits. 

Malaga grapes, strawberries, cherries, and sections 

of oranges and mandarins are most commonly used. 

In using grapes cut them from the bunch, leaving a 

short stem to each one. Dip in glace syrup by holding 

to stem -with small pair of pinchers. Remove to oiled 

paper. Use care not to pierce the thin skin on the 

orange or strawberry, as the fruit juice will spoil the 

syrup. Glaeed fruits want to be used the day they are 

prepared, and the weather wants to be cold and clear. 

• 
Burnt Almond. 

Put a cup of brown sugar in saucepan with very 
little water. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Let it boil 
for a moment, turn in three-fourths cup of almonds, 
and stir until the sugar granulates and becomes a little 
brown. When the nuts are well coated, and before they 
become a mass, turn them out on oiled paper, and sepa- 
rate any that are sticking together. 

Fudge. 

2 cups brown sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup white sugar. Cup milk or cream. 

% cup butter. 3 squares Baker's choco- 

late or % cup cocoa. 

Boil ten minutes. When done, remove from fire and. 

cool for a moment, ihen add vanilla. Beat until cool 

and thick. Pour into buttered pan. Crease in squares. 



USE OF CHAFING-DISH. 327 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 
USE OF CHAFINQ-DISH. 

THE chafing' dish is very old, and we find it was 
used by the Greeks and Romans, who had very 
elaborate ones in silver. Some of the pictures I have 
seen of them represented them as standing on legs of 
silver as high as the ordinary table. It has been said 
by some great writer that daintiness and desire to have 
the food served hot gave rise to the invention. In the 
present day we use it for preparing certain dishes at 
the table for the luncheon hour and Sunday evening 
teas, and the supper after the theater. In this age of 
advancement the chafing-dish is being connected with 
the electric light as well as with gas, or, if preferred, 
the alcohol lamp is still in use. 

The chafing-dish consists of two pans. Jhe under 
one is for holding hot water and the upper one for 
holding the food to be cooked. A blazer differs from 
the chafing-dish in the fact that it has no hot-water 
pan. The denatured alcohol is much cheaper, and is 
now used generally for the chafing-dish. Very attrac- 
tive Wishes are made of nickel, copper, aluminum, etc., 
as well as silver. The latest patterns have the lamp 
with the screw adjustment to regulate the flame, to- 
gether with a metal tray on which to rest the dish, 
and the tray is very ^essential to pr6tectiiig the cloth 
and the polished, table. Use, care not to fill the lamp 
too full. The hot-water pan wants to have handle on 
one or both sides, so as not to burn the hands if neces- 



328 , SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

sary to move it. The small wooden spoons are much 
nicer than the metal spoon; for the reason they are 
more quiet in the hand of the cook, and I do not know 
a better expression than to say, are more "ladylike." 
Eussian bowls are also desirable to measure the mate- 
rial "before bringing from the kitchen; having just 
enough, as you empty the bowls they can be placed one 
in the other, thus giving more room for the work. The 
toast also wants to be prepared in the kitchen. Al- 
though there are toasters for this purpose, your lamp 
is usually in use for the dish in preparation. 

Mrs. Terhune Herrick says in her book that the 
chafing-dish began its career in the hands of the bache- 
lor, and was to him the substitute for a hearthstone. 
Assisted by the chafing-dish, he not only welcomed the 
evening in, but saw it out in a blaze of glory. 

EGQS. 
Scrambled Eggs. 

■5 eggs. 5 tablespoons milk. 

5 pinches salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Break eggs in bowl, but do not beat them. Add the 
five pinches of salt to eggs. (A pinch of salt is what 
you take up between the thumb and forefinger.) Place 
butter in blazer, add milk to butter, turn in the eggs, 
and stir and cook until creamy. Stir, constantly to 
keep them from sticking to bottom of pan. Place over 
hot-water pan and serve from dish. 

Eggs with Curry. 

4 eggs. Vj cup milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. y.^ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon curry powdpr. ' 1 teaspoon onion juice. 

Break eggs in bowl. Mix curry powder with milk 



USE OF OHAFING-DISH. 329 

fey pouring on a little milk at a time until a smooth 
paste is made. Then put butter in blazer, add onion 
juice, and as soon as hot turn in . eggs, milk, curry- 
powder and salt, and stir until smooth and creamy. 
Serve on toast or reception flake crackers. 

Eggs with Mushrooms. 

4 eggs. 1 cup mushrooms. 

2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt butter in blazer, add mushrooms, and cook 
five minutes. Add lemon juice, stir in eggs, add salt 
and pepper and cook until thick. 

Welsh Rabbit. 

2 eggs. V2 teaspoon mustard. 

^2 cup ale or beer. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

1 tablespoon butter. sauce. 

% pound grated cheese. i/^ tablespoon lemon juice. 

Pinch cayenne. 

Melt butter in blazer, resting in pan of hot water. 
Add the ale, and when these are very hot put in the 
grated cheese. As soon as it is melted and smooth,, 
add the salt, mustard and cayenne. Have ready, the 
eggs beaten until very light. Dip out some of thp- 
cheese mixture into the bowl with the eggs, and wheji 
well mixed pour into the chafing-dish, slowly stirring. 
all the time. When the mixture- is well blended and 
smooth, add the Worcestershire and lemon juice, and 
serve on hot toast. 

Saut6 Shad Roes. 

Prepare shad roes by parboiling them ten minutes 
in salted water with a tablespoon of4emon juice added 
to the water. When done, blanch them in cold water^ 
and they are ready for the chafing-dish. Put two table- 



330 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

spoons of butter in blazer, and when hot lay in the pair 
of roes, and cook and turn to brown them evenly. When 
done, take them out and add a little more butter to 
blazer, and when melted add one teaspoon Worcester- 
shire sauce and a little lemon juice, and pour over each 
service, with a slice of lemon to garnish.. 

Sardines. 

Free one ddzen sardines from oil by laying them on- 
paper, and scrape off the skin carefully so as not 4o 
break them. Put two tablespoons of butter in chafing- 
dish; when hot, put in sardines, turn carefully, and 
brown on both sides. When done, season with sajt, 
pepper and lemon juice, and serve on toast. 

Oysters Panned. 

Clean and prepare twenty-four large oysters. Put 
two tablespoons of butter in blazer, and when melted 
add oysters. Stir until the edges curl. Serve on toast 
seasoned with salt and pepper. These- are very nice 
served on crisped crackers. 

Panned Oysters with Sherry. 

Prepare -same as above recipe, and a moment be- 
fore taking from chafing-dish add three tablespoons of 
sherry wine. 

„Deviled Oysters. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cup oyster liquor. 

1 teaspoon Worcester-- A little cayenne, 

sbire sauce. % teaspoon curry powder. 

Vi teaspoon salt. 

Put into blazer the butter and seasonings. As they 
heat, add the eup'of oyster liquor, and when it boils 
add the oysters Cook until oysters are plump and well 
curled, and serve at once. 



USE OP CHAFING-DISH. 331 

Fried Oysters. 

Use large oysters. Clean and prepare as directed. 
Drain, and sprinkle with salt and white pepper. Put 
into the blazer three tablespoons of butter, and when 
hot piit in the oysters. Brown on one side, turn and 
brown on the other. Serve hot, with brown bread sand- 
wiches, slices of lemon and tomato catsup. 

Oyster Stew. 

2 tablespoons butter. 24 oysters. 

2 tablespoons flour. Vn teaspoon salt. 
/ 1 pint oyster liquor. White pepper. 

Cook butter and flour together in blazer. Add 
slowly the oyster liquor, and stir all the time until the 
boiling-point is reached. Add the- oysters, and cook 
until the edges curl. Add the seasonings, and serve 
with oyster crackers or French bread and butter. 

Lobster k la Newburg. 

A 2-pound lobster. 2 tablespoons sherry. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon brandy. 
V2 cup cream. V2 teaspoon salt. 
Yolks 2 eggs. Toast.' 

Remove lobster meat from shell, and cut into dice. 
Place butter in blazer. When it melts, add lobster and 
cook a few moments. Add the seasonings, wine and 
brandy, .cook a moment, and add the yolks of eggs well 
beaten, and mixed with the cream. Serve witii toast. 

Shrimps A la Newburg. 

1 pint shrimps. . - Yolks 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon flour. V2 teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons butter. Dash, cayenne. 

14 cup cream. 3 tablespoons sherry wine. 

% tablespoon lemon juice. 

Clean shrimps, and prepare same as lobster. 



332 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Clams a la Newburg. 

1 pint clams. Vi cup sherry wine. 

2 tablespoons buttei'. Cayenne and salt. 
% cup cream. Yolks 3 eggs. 

Cleab clams as directed. Separate soft and hard 
parts ; finely chop hard parts Melt butter, and add the 
hard parts, wine and seasonings. Cook for eight or 
ten minutes. Add soft parts and cream, and eggs 
heaten until light and diluted with a little of the cold 
cream which has been reserve^ for this purpose. Serve 
hot from the chafing-dish with Graham bread sand- 
wiches covered lightly with butter that has been 
creamed, and a few nuts added to butter if liked. 

Tomato Rarebit. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 cups finely] chopped cheese. 
3 tablespoons flour. % cup Stewed and strained 
% tablespoon sugar. tomatoes. 

1 cup thin cream. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

Salt to taste. 14 teaspoon soda. 

Yolks 3 eggs. Dash cayenne. 

Place butter in blazer. When melted, add the floux, 
then the cream slowly. Stir until it thickens. Add 
tomatoes mixed with soda and sugar, then cheese and 
eggs beaten light, then the seasonings. As soon as 
cheese is melted, serve' on toast. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 

Prepare sweetbreads as directed in the chapter on 
sweetbreads. , When the chafing-dish is very hot, add 
one teaspoon of butter, and rub it all over the bottom. 
'_^Add the prepared sweetbreads, and cook to a nice 
brown, using care that they do not scorch. Add more 
butter if they stick. (It is well to melt the butter to 



USE OF CHAFING-DISH. 333 

be used in the chafing-dish for broiling or frying, and! 
pour it olif to free it from salt, or you can use olive 
oil.') "When sweetbreads are done, place on platter and 
surround with French peas. 

French Peas. 

Open, rinse with cold water, and drain a can of 
French peas. Heat in chafing-dish. Season with salt, 
butter, and a little white pepper. Ser"'e around the 
broiled sweetbreads, or with creamed sweetbreads. You 
prepare the sweetbreads in the blazer and peas in hot- 
water pan. 

Barbecued Ham. 

Use one-half pound of boiled ham cut" very thin. 
Cook in chafing-dish in its own fat. When a nice 
brown, draw to one side, and to the fat add one table- 
spoon of lemon juicje, one teaspoon of dry mustard 
and two teaspoons of sugar. Mix sugar, mustard and 
lemon juice well together, and add to fat. When all 
is well mixed stir the ham into the barbecue, and sim- 
mer a moment and serve. This is nice with fried eggs. 
Prepare ham, then ithe eggs, in hot-water pan. 

Mutton- vk'ith Jelly and Wine. 

Make a sauce with two tablespoons of butter, two 
■tablespoons of flour, one-third cup of currant jelly, one 
cup brown stock, two cups cold mutton cut thin, one- 
fourth cup of sherry wine. Season to tfiste. The gravy 
from the mutton can be used instead of the brown stock, 
using half gravy and half hot water. 

Fruit Canap6s. \ 

Brown rounds of stale bread in butter in chafing- 
dish, and spread with stewed dried fruit of any kind 



334 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

desired— prunes, figs, dates, etc. After they are ten- 
der, chop them fine and add a little ]e;non juice and 
sugar. Spread canapes while hot. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Select firm tomatoes with as few seeds as passible. 
Wash and wipe, but do not peel. Put in the blazer two 
tablespoons of butter, and when very hot lay in the 
tomatoes. Turn often, and cook until tender. Remove 
and sprinkle with a little powdered sugar, salt and 
paprika, and serve with cold meat of any kind. 

Deviled Tomatoes. 

Cook a« 'dileeted above. Remove from chafing-dish, 
and keep warm. Add one tablespoon butter to blazer, 
one teaspoon grated, onion, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
one tablespoon powdered sugar, one teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, and dash of cayenne. Mix all the dry ingredients 
in bowl, moisten with lemon juice, and add to butter 
in chafing-dish at once. Add the well-beaten yolks , of 
two eggs or one "whole egg very slowly to mijfture, stir- 
ring all the while. As soon as all are in, turn out 
your lamp, baste tomatoes with the sauce, and serve. 
This is fine with cold corned tongue. 

French Mushroom Saute. 

Peel, wash mushrooms, and cut off stems. Melt 
two tablespoons butter in blazer, lay in mushrooms, and 
cook for ten minutes, turning often. Season with salt, 
pepper and lemon juice. Serve on toast of around 
beefsteak. 



INVALID COOKKRY. 335 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 

INVALID COOKERY. 

"They are sick that surfeit with too much as they that 
starve with nothing." 

THE physicians of the present day will .tell you 
that the proper preparation of the food for an 
invalid is of as much importance to the recovery of the 
patient as the drugs that he administers. The manner 
in which it is served is also of great importance. The 
tray for the invalid wants- especial care. The tray 
.wants to be covered with a spotless tray-cloth and 
always a clean napkin, so there will be no odor from 
the food that was served the meal before, which often 
occurs when the napkin is put in a ring to be used 
several times. You want to bear in mind that the 
appetite of a sick person is very capricious, and the 
least thing will spoil any appetite he may have and 
keep him from partaking of the food that is offered. 
Select for the invalid's tray the daintiest china 
and glass and the choicest silver, and make as many 
changes as possible. Cheer the patient by laying a 
bright flower on the tray-cloth. A flower without strong 
odor is the best. Arrange things in such a manner that 
everything is to the hand without making changes. 
Place plate in front of tray near edge, knife on right 
side, fork on left, spoon at top of plate or to right of 
knife, and cup and saucer at right of plate,, with handle 
in proper position. Put the bread and butter plate at 
left over the fork, the napkin at right of cup; salt, but 



33b scientific cooking. 

no pepper. Avoid having a crowded tray. When the 
patient is convalescing, and soup, meat and light des- 
sert are served, remove one course before the other 
appears. Serve hot things hot and cold things cold. 
A glass of milk, cup of gruel, or cup of beef tea should 
be placed on a plate with a doily. Never consult the 
patient as to his "menu," but let the food come in the 
way of a surprise to him. Anticipation often spurs 
the appetite, and an unexpected dainty will often be 
eaten with a relish. We must eat with a relish if we 
digest. If the patient expresses a. desire for any par- 
ticular article of .food, it is perhaps just as well to 
call the attention of the doctor to it, as it may be a 
valuable indication of the needs of the system. Always 
use care not to serve too much at a time, for often an 
overloaded tray destroys the appetite. If the patient 
is restricted to a milk diet, it can be varied by the use 
of albuminized milk, koumiss, or by addition of Apolli- 
naris or seltzer water. 

The tray wants to be taken away as soon as the 
patient has finished, any solids burned, and fluids dis- 
posed of. The nurse of the present day, if a proficient 
one, is a fair doctor, and she knows only the food pre- 
scribed must be given to the patient. 

The liquid foods are the first to be considered. 
Barley and rice water are astringents, and are used 
in laxative conditions. Toast water is often used for 
nausea, bread being toasted quite brown. Clam water 
Is used to stimulate the stomach so it will retain the 
food. Fruit waters are used for fever patients, for 
the reason they are cooling and slightly stimulating, a3 
■well as valuable for their salts and acids. In sweeten- 
ing fruit water always have a heavy syrup made with 
sugar and water, fieef essence, which is the expressed 



INVALID COOKERY. 337 

juice of the beef, and is given where a condensed form' 
of food is necessary, is best prepared from meat cut 
from top of ' round. 

Beef tea is the juices of the meat diluted with 
water, and a stimulant rather than a nutrient. BggT 
nogs are used where a large amount of nutriment is 
necessary as well as for a stimulant. 

Semi-solid foods are the gruels, and those made 
from oatmeal and corn are heat-producers, and should 
not be given with inflammatory symptom^. Arrow- 
root makes a delicate gruel, and is more easily digested 
than any other forrti of starch. 

Solid foods comprise those given during convales- 
cence, and it is during convalescence that the nurse 
can display her skill and good judgment quite as much 
as during the more critical period of the disease. 

Rice Water. 

2 tablespoons rice. % cup milk or cream. 

2 cups cold water. Salt to taste. 

Thoroughly wash rice in three waters, and rub the 
grains between the hands. Add to water and boil, until 
tender; strain and add to rice, water, milk or cream 
as desired. Salt to, taste. Reheat and serve. 

Barley Water. 

3 tablespoons barley. • Salt to taste. 

4 cups cold water. Lemon Juice. 

Sugar. 

Pick over barley and soak in water overnight. Boil 
very slowly for two hours. (After boiling for fifteen 
minutes slowly on range, it is best to put it in double 
boiler and finish the cooking, as there will be no danger 
of burning.) Strain, season with salt, lemon juice and 
sugar. Reheat and serve. 



338 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Toast Water. 

: Toast stale bread until a rich dai-k brown, and use 
equal measure of boiling water. Salt to taste. 

Oatmeal Water. 

One cup fine oatmeal, and two quarts water, boiled 
and cooled. Add oatmeal to water and keep where the 
temperature is at 80° F. about two hours. Strain and 
serve. i 

Apple Water. 

1 large tart apple. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

"Wipe, core and pare apple. Put sugar in cavity. 
Bake in moderate oven to a golden brown. Llash, pour 
over water, and let stand for thirty minutes. Strain. 

Currant Water. 

'■i glass currant jelly, or 1 cup cold water. 

3 tablespoons currant Sugar, 

juice. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Mix juice and water, and sweeten to taste. (Care 
must be used not to have it too sweet.) If jelly is used, 
mash the jelly and dissolve in the water, and, if not 
sweet enough, more sugar can -be addea. 

Tamarind Water. 

2 tablespoons preserved 1 cup boiling water, 
tamarinds. Sugar to taste. 

Pour water over tamarinds, aud stir until Avell 

mixed. Let it stand for thirty minutes, then strain. 

Sweeten to taste. 

Qrapc Juice. 

1% cups Concord grapes. 1 cup cold water. 

' % cup sugar. 



INVALID COOKERY. 339 

Wash, pick over ancl remove sterns. Add water, 
and cook in double boiler for about one and one-half 
hours. Add sugar, and cook for twenty-flve minutes; 
strain and cool. Pour aver shaved ice. 

Syrup for Sweetening Fruit Waters for 
tlie Sick-room. 

ZV2 cups sugar. 2% cups water. 

Stir it over fire until sugar is dissolved. Boil for 
five minutes from the time it begins boiling rapidly. 
Every additional five minutes will thicken one degree. 
Place in air-tight preserve-jar, for vise as needed. 

Lemonade. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 2 tablespoons syrup. 

Shaved ice and water. 

If ice is to be used, have it shaved. Place j^n tum- 
bler, pour on syrup, and add lemon juice, then water. 
Stir oi" shake well, and serve. Apollinaris, seltzer or 
soda water may be used. 

Orangeade. 

Juice 1 orange. 114 tablespoons syrup. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice.' Crushed ice. 

Pour orange and lemon juice over the crushed ice. 
Add syrup. Mix by stirring or shaking. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 

1 tablespoon whole flax- 1 pint boiling water, 

seed. Lemon juice. 

Sugar. 

Pick over and wash flaxseed. Add water, and cook 
for two houi's in double boiler. Strain, add lemon 
juice, and sugar to taste. 



A'H GAS RANGES StyUsandsifs 

340 SCIENTIFIC COOKING, 

Koumiss. 

1 quart milk. % y^ast cake, dissolved in 1 

1 tablespoon sugar. tablespoon lukewarm water. 

Heat milk in double boilqjr until lukewarm. Add 
sus:ar and dissolved yeast cake. Fill beer bottles within 
one and one-half inches of top. Cork and invert, using 
care to tie cork down with strong twine. Stand at a 
temperature of 80° F. for six hours. Chill and serve 
the following day. 

Milk Punch. 

% cup milk. 1 tablespoon whisky. 

Sugar. ^ brandy or rum. 

Nutmeg. 

Mix ingredients, cover, and shake well until very 
foamy. Mary Mantenon gave us the refreshing milk 
punch for the sick-room. 

Albumenized Milk. 

% cup milk. T\Tiite 1 egg. 

Put white of egg in tumbler; add milk, cover tightly, 
and shake until thoroughly mixed. 

Egg-nog I. 

1 egg, beaten until 2 tablespoons wine, or 1 

very light tablespoon brandy. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Pinch of salt. 

% cup milk. 

Beat egg until light and creamy; add sugar, salt 
and wine. Mix thoroughly, add milk, and strain 

Egg-nog II. 

Use same ingredients, and separate white and yolk 
of egg. Beat yolk until thick and lemon color. Add 
sugar, salt, wine and milk. Strain, and add the white 
beaten very light and fold in. 



• INVALID COOKERY. 341 

Hot=water Egg-nog. 

Prepare same as Egg-nog I., using half cup hot 
water in place of milk. 

Cocoa. 

4 teaspoons cocoa. 1 cup scalded milk. 

% cup boiling water 2 tablespoons cold water.' 

Moisten cocoa with cold water, and add boiling 
■water. .Boil one minute, then add scalded milk. Beat 
rapidly for a moment, to prevent the scum from rising 
and to form the frothy top. 

Cocoa Cordial. 

2 teaspoons cocoa. % cup boiling water. , 

1% teaspoons sugar. 2 tablespoons port wine. 

Mix cocoa and sugar. Add enough water to form 
a paste. Stir well, and add remainder of water. Boil, 
a moment, then add the wine. This is good in cases 
of exhaustion. 

Expressed Beef Juice. 

Take one-half pound of steak, cut from top of the 
round. (It must be cut one-third of a a inch thick.) 
Wipe steak, remove all fat, and place on broiler. Broil 
over gas flame for three or four minutes. Turn as 
you count ten, to keep the juices in the meat. Put 
on a hot plate, cut into small pieces one and one-half 
inches in size, and gash each piece two or three times. 
Have a warm lemon-squeezer, and lay tie piepes on 
and express the juice into a cup or small bowl resting 
in hot water, using care not to have it hot enough to 
coagulate the juices., Season with salt. 

Broiled Beef Tea. 

Dilute the beef essence with warm water. Season 
with cayenne and salt. ' 



342 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Bottled Beef Tea. 

1Y> pounds sleah from 2% bups cold water, 

top of round. Salt to taste. 

Broil the beef five minutes, same as for broiled beef 
tea, and cut into pieces in same way. Place in glass 
jar, turn on the cold water, and let it stand for fifteen 
minutes. Place jar on trivet in kettle, surround with 
cold water, and let it heat slowly to 130° F. Let it 
stand two hours, strain and press all the juice out of 
the meat, and salt to taste. Food for the sick must 
not be made too salt, or it will cause too much thirst, 
and soinetimes the water will create nausea. 

Frapped Beef Tea. 

Beef tea frozen to the consistency of a mush is a 
nice change for the patient. 

GRUELS. 

Flour Qruel. 

1 tablespoon flour. 2 cups milk. 
4 raisins. Salt to taste. 

llix flour with a small quantity of the milk until 
it is smooth. Place the remainder of the milk in 
double boiler, and when scalding hot stir, in flour paste 
and add the whole raisins. Cook thirty minutes, and 
remove the raisins. Season, and, if desired, add one- 
third cup of cream. The raisins can be omitted. 

Farina Qruel. 

2 cups boiling water. 1 cup milk. 
1 tablespoon farina. 1 egg. 
Cold water. Pinch salt. 

' ,. Cream. 



INVAtJD COOKERY. 343 

Mix farina to a fhm paste with cold water. Add 
to boiling water and boil thirty minutefe. Season and 
add cream and egg, mixed, and serve. 

Arrowroot Gruel. 

1 cup boiling water. 2 teaspoons Bermuda 

Cold water. arrowroot. 

Pinch salt. 

Mix arrowroot to thin paste with cold water. Add 
to , boiling water, and cook ten minutes. Season and 
add creai^i. , 

Barley Gruel. 

3 tablespoons barley flour. % cup milk or cream. 

1 cup boiling water. Salt to taste. 

Mix barley flour with water to a paste. Add boiling 
water, and boil twenty minutes. Add milk, season, re- 
heat, and strain. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

,% cup coarse oatmeal. Milk or cream. 

3 cups boiling water. • Salt to taste. 

Add salt to boiling water, then the oatmeal, and 
cook in double boiler for three and , one-half hours. 
Strain, dilute with milk or cream, and strain again. 
Season, reheat and serve. 

Pounded Oatmeal Qruel. 

% cup coarse oatmeal. Milk or cream. 

1 pint cold water. Salt to taste. 

Pound oatmeal un mealy and white-looking. Add 
one-third of the water, stir well, let settle, and pour 
off the water. Repeat twice, using the remaining water. 
Boil the mealy water in double boiler thirty-five or 
forty minutes. Season with salt, and dilute witb milk 
or cream. This makes a very delicate gruel. 



344 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

I 

Imperial Qranum. 

1 tablespoon Imperial % cup scalded milk. 

Granum. Vs cup boiling water. 

Salt. 

, Mix Granum with cold w^ter to form a paste. Add 
to milk and water. Cook fifteen minutes in double 
boiler, and season. The milk can be increased. 

Clam Water. 

Wash and scrub one-half dozen clams, place in cov^ 
ered kettle with one-fourth cup water, and steam until 
shells open. Eemove clams, and strain liquor through 
double of cheesecloth. Serve very hot or freeze to a 
mush. 

Mutton Broth. 

3 pounds mutton (from 2 quarts cold water, 

neck). 3 tablespoons rice or barley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wipe meat well with wet cheesecloth, removing 
every particle of skin and fat. Cut into small pieces, 
and put into kettle with the bones, and cover all with 
cold water. Heat slowly to the boiling-point. Skim 
and season with salt and pepper. Cook until meat is 
cooked to pieces. Strain and remove fat. Reheat to 
boiling-point. Add rice or barley, whichever is to be 
used, and cook tender. If barley is used, it should 
be soaked overnight in cold water. Some nice bits of 
the meat can be served with the broth. 

Chicken Broth. 

Dress and clean chicken, remove skin and fat, and 
disjoint. Put in stewpan, cover with cold water, and 
heat slowly to' the boiling-point. Skim and cook iintil 
meat is tender. When half done, season with salt and 



TNVALID COOKERY. 345 

a little pepper. Strain arid remove all the fat (chicken 
fat is hard to digest). There should be three pints of 
the broth if it has been cooked slow enough. The sim- 
mering burner on the gaS stove does this nicely. Re- 
heat to boiling-point, and add two, tablespoons, of well- 
washed rice that has been cooked five minutes, and 
cook until rice is soft. 

Oatmeal Mush. 

i/j cup coarse oatmeal. 2 cups boiling water. 

V2 teaspoon salt. 

Add salt and oatmeal to boiling water. Cook in 
double boiler for three or four hours. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 

Indian Meal Mush. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 cup milk. 

% cup Indian meal. % teaspoon salt. 

Add salt to boiling water, and stir in the meal, 

being careful not to have any lumps. Cook three' 

hours in double boiler. Serve with cream and sugar, 

or, if preferred, with maple syrup or with salt and 

thin cream. 

Rolled Oats Mush. 

% cup rolled oats. 1% cups boiling water. 

V2 teaspoon salt. 

Add salt to boiling water, then add the oats and 
cook three-quarters of an hour in double boiler, and 
serve with sugar and cream. i 

Raw Beef Sandwiches. 

Butter slices of bread, and use two tablespoons of 
scraped raw beef from the top of the round, seasoned 
with salt and a little cayenne pepper. The butter may 
be omitted, using only the scraped, and seasoned beef. 



346 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Egs Sandwiches. 

Cut very thin slices of stale bread into any fancy 
shape you may desire. Put together in pairs with thor- 
ousrhly cooked yolks of eggs rubbed to a paste, seasoned 
with salt, and moistened with soft butter. 

Birds Broiled in Buttered Cases. 

Butter a sheet of letter paper. Place a boned bird 
on lower half of sheet; fold upper hsdS. over bird, 
bringing the edges of the sheet together, and fold oVer 
the side and two ends three times. Place in wire 
broiler, and broil twelve minutes over slow fire, using 
care that the paper does not catch on fire. Remove 
from case and sea.<on with salt, pepper and, butter, and 
place on piece of hot toast. Gtarnish with parsley and 
thin slice of lemon. Lamb chop, tenderloin of steak 
or breast of chicken may be prepared in the same way. 

Oysters on Toast. 

Place in granite pan or in chafing-dish, one table- 
spoon best butter, one dozen large oysters (with mus- 
cular portion removed), a sal,t-spoon of salt, and a 
little white pepper. When thoroughly heated, stir in 
three-fourths cup of good cream. (Be sure the cream 
does not boil.) Serve on hot buttered toast immediately. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Asparagus is especially recommended for diabetics. 
It should be scraped, the stalks cut even, tied together, 
and placed in an upright position in saucepan of boil- 
ing water with a little salt added to the water, and 
cooked until quite tender. Serve on toast moistened 
with some of the water in which the asparagus was 
cooked. Season with a little salt and some melted but- 
\ter. T^se the butter sparingly. 



INVALID COOKERY. 347 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

% pint grated corn. 1 tablespoon butter. 

IVz pints boiling water. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup tliin cream: 

Grate the corn (using young corn), add it to the 
■water in double boiler, and eook for one hour. Strain, 
put into saucepan the butter and flour, and cook' for 
a minute. Add the strained corn, and return to double 
boiler, and when ready to serve add the cream. Heat 
again, but be sure you do not boil after the cream is 
added. This is for the convalescent. > 

Broiled Chicken Breast. 

Remove bones from breast of .a tender chicken. 
Season and rub with soft butter, and broil in wire 
broiler directly over the fire, so it will get a little flavor 
of burning of the juices and butter. This is sometimes 
very savory. The breast of the chicken is always best 
for the sick, as it is more easily digested. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

1 cup chickefi breast. % cup sweetbreads. 

% cup white sauce. Salt and parsley. 

1 egg, beaten. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces with scissors, also 
the sweetbreads that have been parboiled. Make the 
sauce with one tablespoon butter, one of flour and ha.lf 
a cup of milk. Put butter in small saucepan, add flour 
as soon as frothy, add inilk slowly, then remove from 
fire. Add egg, then the minced chicken and sweetbread. 
Spread on tin until cold. Shape in croquettes, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain all fat from them 
on paper. Garnish with parsley, and serve. 



348 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
FOOD FOR CHILDREN. 

THIS subject covers a great deal of ground, and 
I will only add a few recipes with the suggestion 
that one feeding the infant of one or two years of age 
wants to see to it that the food is of the best quality 
and always perfectly fresh, as stale food may produce 
scurvy. The value of fresh vegetables for this trouble, 
is as important for the infant as for adujts, and as 
soon as they are old enough teach them to take a lettuce 
salad with nice, fresh olive oil; they soon learn to love 
it. Fresh food in the form of meat juice on bread is 
very good. The infant must not be fed the starchy 
foods until the teeth appear, as the digestive juices are 
not developed until that period in the child's life. 
Fresh, rip6 fruit juices are good for the baby. 

Meat Juice on Bread. 

Broil a piece of meat until well heated through, 
and express the juice, with a metal lemon-squeezer, on 
some pieces of bread, and feed the baby very slowly. 
This food is for the three-year-old child. 

Meats Not to Serve. 

Veal, lamb, pork and game. They are all hard to 
digest. 

Meats to be Served. 

Beef, mutton, and white meat of the chicken. , 



FOOD FOB CHILDREN. 349 

Fish to be Served. 

Fish wants to be boiled or broiled, and the best are 
the white fish, trout, perch, pickerel and "black bass. 

Soups. 

Broths and soups of various kinds can be served with 
rice and barley in them. Potato soup can also be 
served. 

Vegetables. 

Baked potatoes, ^ asparagus, peas and string beans, 
and some varieties of beans without the pod; all should 
be cooked until tender, and seasoned with salt, butter 
or cream, never with sauce. The dried beans are too 
hard of digestion for a child, even at six years of age. 
The vegetables to be served later in the year are the 
onion, spinach and cauliflower. The best onions are 
the Spanish, and they should be boiled or baked until 
very tender. If dressed with sauce,^ let it be a little 
cream and salt to taste. Children should use less salt 
than adults, as the salt habit is one that grows with , 
the persoii. 

Cauliflower is the only one of the cabbage family 
that the child should eat, and wants to be dressed 
same as the onion, using care to cook only until tender. 

Spinach is one of the stand-bys for the nursery 
table for the winter. Directions for cleansing have 
been given in full Onion, cauliflower and spinach are 
all slightly laxative. 

Celery carefully prepared by long stewing, until 
thoroughly tender, can be given, but the nutritive value, 
is small. Turnips, beets , and carrots can be given ; 
these all want to be thoroughly cooked, and the carrot 
should be put through a sieve. 



350 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Bread and Cereals. 

Bread wants to be a day old at least, and cereals 
well cooked. The ones prepared from wheat are pref- 
erable, although the oatmeal is all right. Then there 
is the Indian meal. Farina and hominy may be served 
to the child old enough to chew well. The rice is very 
useful in the nursery. Macaroni for the nursery wants 
to be served plain, with' milk or cream. 

Dessert. 

The best desserts for the nursery are some nice 
fruit, or a nice, plain custard or rice pudding Served 
cold with milk or cream. The ice-cream would be all 
right so far as composition goes, but the iced tempera- 
ture reduces the action of the stomach, and sometimes 
it stops the digestion for the time being. Only simple 
ice-creams should be given. No pastry should be given 
to the child, and only sponge cake or plain gingerbread. 

Fruits. 

The early use of oranges is good, also stewed prunes. 
Apples are in their best form when cooked. If they are 
served baked, they should be pared before baking, 
or see to it that the child doe^s not eat the skin. As a 
variety, the applesauce is good. The raw apple is apt 
to be hard to digest. Pears are akin to apples, and 
should be served in the same form. The pear of good 
quality is more digestible than the apple. Berries in 
the early years are scarcely to be considered, as they 
disturb the bowels so much. The strawberry, if ripe 
and fine, can be given with caution. I say with great 
caution, for there_ is no fruit that contains so many 
idiosyncrasies as the beautiful strawbetrry. Grapes 
come rather early into use in the nursery, but seeds 



POOD FOE CHILDREN. 351 

and skins want to be removed. The Malaga is the best 
variety. The melons are of a doubtful character, be- 
cause so many are poor. However, the pulp of a really 
good, ripe melon, if tender, is considered digestible, 
and there is nothing so attractive to the child. As soon 
as they catch sight of it they are filled with delight, 
and "I think it should make the first course wherever 
it is served. ^ 

Water and Other Drink. 

^ater heads the list of the drinks, and should the 
water supply be doubtful, it should be filtered and 
boiled, and set aside to cool. Milk is always looked 
upon as a food, but it contains water enough to make 
it a quencher of thirst. "Water wants to be offered to 
the child when very young, as thirst is often .nlistaken 
for hunger. Tea and coffee should never be given; 
wine and beer only with the physician's orders. As 
an article of diet the cocoa beverage may be used, but 
it is better omitted. 

Objection to Sweets. 

Candies and sweets should be excluded articles, for 
the reason that as long as the child's diet is made up 
largely of milk he gets an ample amount of sugar, 
and in the cereals he gets a large amount of starch, 
that is converted into sugar by digestion. 



A-B GAS RANGES "''"%'oX'""^ 



352 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 
FRUITS -FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 

FRUITS are at their best when served ripe and in 
season, cooked on the tree or vine- as nature cooks 
and prepares them for us. However, some are more 
digestible by cooking. The methods used are baking 
and stewing. Fruit should always be cooked in earthen 
or granite utensils, and stirred 'with a wooden or silver 
spoon, for the reason that all fruits contain more or 
less acid, and if they are not specially hard, they want 
to be pared with a silver knife. - 

To Prepare Strawberries. 

Pick them over and place in a colander, pour over 
cold water, and drain thoroughly. Cap and turn into 
the dish they -'ve to be served from. Chill, and serve 
with powderec sugar and cream if desired. They are 
better with simply the sugar, as they so quickly make 
such a curd of the cream. 

I How to Prepare Oranges. 

"Wipe the orange after it has been chilled, and cut 
into halves, or cut off the stem end about an inch from 
the stem, and with a, sharp knife cut areund the edge 
and loosen the pulp from the rind, and make two cuts 
across the center, cutting the core to the bottom each 
way. Serve on a fruit-plate with an orange spoon to 
right of plate, or the orange may be peeled and the 
white portion removed, and pulp removed in sections 



FRUITS — ^FKESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 353 

\ 

I 

and , placed, on a fruit-dish. If the orange contains 
seeds, remove the seeds. 

To Prepare Grape-fruit. 

"Wipe grape-fruit and cut into halves erossways. 
With a small, sharp-pointed knife separate the pulp 
from the skin around the entire circumference, then in 
the same way separate the pulp from the tough part, 
which divides it into sections. Remove the core and' 
tough portions in ode piece, with the seeds, by cutting 
the stem or blossom end with a pair of scissors to the 
skin. Sprinkle generously with sugar, and stand for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on fruit-plate with spoon. 
You can garnish with Maraschino cherries. 

Qrape=fruit with Slierry. 

Prepare as above. Add one tablespoonful of sherry, 
and chill for one hour. You can also use apricot 
brandy, using a little less, or with gin. In either case 
you use less and chill longer before serving. 

Fruit Coclctail. 

Mix grape-fruit with pineapple, orange and Malaga 
grapes, and a few strawberries or cherries. There 
should be three cupfuls of the fruit. Pour over a 
dressing made of one-half cup of sherry wine, three- 
fourths cup sugar and four tablespoons apricot brandy. 
Chill and serve in cocktail glasses. Garnish with 
cherries and leaves. 

To Serve Cantaloupe. 

See that your melons are quite ripe, and the outside 
thoroughly washed and wiped. Chill in ice-box before 
cutting. They can be cut either crosswise or length- 



354 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

wise, according as fancy may suggest. They are pret-- 
tier cut cr6sswise. 

To Serve Pears and Plums. 

Wipe and have them cold, and serve whole for 
breakfast or luncheon. Be sure ,to place finger-bowls 
for each person, to prevent staining the napkin, and 
a fruit-knife instead' of a spoon. 

Baked Apple. 

Select a smooth, well-shaped apple. Wash, wipe 
and remove the core. Put in a baking-dish and fill the 
cavities with sugar, using three-fourths cup of sugar 
to eight apples. A little lemon juice can be used if 
desired, or either nutmeg or cinnamon. When apples 
are fresh and in season, they need no extra seasoning. 
Cover bottom of dish with boiling water, and bake in 
a moderate oven until soft, basting frequently with the 
syrup in the bake-dish. Serve with cream or Vv'ithout, 
as your taste dictates. 

Apples Pared and Baked. 

Remove the core, pare and place in baking-dish. 
Use three-fourths cup of sugar and a piece of butter size 
of a filbert. Bake until tender, using enough boiling 
water to bover bottom of dish. 

Apple Sauce I. 

Use a bright red apple. Wash, wipe and remove 
any imperfect places and seeds, cut into quarters, and 
put on in enough boiling water to come up in the sauce- 
pan so you can see it. Cook rapidly for some time,'^ 
until ihey are quite tender. Remove from tire and rub 
through colander. Sweeten to taste and serve hot or 



FRUITS — FKKSH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 355 

cold ; the skin will add a nice color to sauce. This sauce 
is nice served hot with goose or pork. 

Apple Sauce II. 

Wash, quarter, core and pare eight tart apples. 
jMake a syrup by cooking one cup of sugar and one 
of water for ten minutes. Add enough apples to cover 
bottom of the saucepan. Cook rapidly until apples are 
tender. Remove and place in glass dish in which you 
are going to serve them, place as many more in. the 
syrup, and continue until all are cooked and removed 
to serving-dish. Cook syrup for ten minutes rapidly, 
and strain over apples. This sauce is delightful. 

Apple Ginger. 

Wash, quarter, pare and chop enough apples to 
weigh two pounds. Put in saucepan with one and one- 
half pounds of light brown sugar, juice and rind of one 
lemon, one-half ^ ounce of ginger-root, pinch of salt and 
water enough to keep apples from burning. Cover 
and cook very slowly for three and one-half hours, 
adding water as needed. This wants to be closely cov- 
ered. Keeps a long time. 

Baked Quinces- 
Wipe, pare and quarter ten medium-sized quinces. 
Remove seeds, and put in baking-dish. Sprinkle with 
one (iup of sugar and two cups of water. Cover and 
cook in slow oven until tender. Quinces require a long 
time for cooking. 

Baked Pears. « 

Wipe and halve ten nice-sized pears, and remove 
cores. Put in baking-dish, and sprinkle with sugar. 
Add water to prevent their burning. Cover closely. 



356 ' SCIENTIFIC COOKING. ^ , 

and cook for two or three Hours in a very slow oven: 
A, casserole is nioe to bake them in. The Seckel pear 
is delicious baked; they are baked whole. 

Rhubarb Sauce. 

"Wash, wipe and cut in inch lengths with scissors. 
If' you are' using the strawberry variety, do not peel it, 
as the peel makes a fine color to the sauce. Allow one 
cup of sugar to two and one-half cups of the rhubarb. 
Make a syrup with three-fourths of a cup of water and 
the sugar. ' Boil for three . or four minutes, and add 
the rhubarb. Cook until tender. 

JELLIES. ) 

^Tellies ai'e made with fruit juices "and sugar. You 
prep'are thfe glasses by washing them well, placing 
them in a kettle of cold water, and letting them come 
to a boii. Leave them in the hot water until you are 
ready for them, then drain them and place on a cloth 
wrung out of hot water when putting the jelly in. 
Cover the top of the jelly with paraffin, and when cool 
put on tin top. Label and put away in a cool, dry 
place. 

Apple Jelly. 

Wash and wipe tart apples. Remove stem and blos- 
som end. Cut into quarters, and place in granite or 
porcelain-lined preserving-kettle. Add cold water to 
cover nearly to the top. Cook slowly until apples are 
soft. Mash and drain through coarse sieve. Avoid 
squeezing the apple or you will have a cloudy jelly. 
Strain the juice through a double thickness of cheese- 
cloth; when all has dripped through, place the juice 
in agate saucepan and cook rapidly uncovered for 
twenty minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated 



FRUITS PKESH, CANNED AND PEESEEVBD. 357 

granulated sugar, boil up five minutes, and turn in 
jelly-glasses, then seal and set to cool. A pared apple 
makes a much lighter jelly. 

Crab-appte Jelly. 

Follow the rule for the apple jelly, leaving the 
apple whole. 

Quince Jelly. 

Follow the recipe for the apple jelly, using quinces 
instead of apples, and remove the seeds from the fruit. 

Currant Jelly. 

Currant jelly wants to be made the last of June, 
■not later than the fourth of July; then the fruit is at 
its best. Pick over currants, but do not remove stems. 
Wash and drain. Mash a few in the bottom of a pre- 
serving-kettle ; a wooden potato-masher is the best thing 
for the purpose. Continue until the berries are all 
Tised, then cook slowly until the currants look white. 
Strain through a coarse sieve, then through two thick- 
nesses of cheesecloth. Measure, bring to boiling-point, 
and boil rapidly for ten minutes. Add equal quan- 
tities of sugar that has been heated in oven in a wide, 
shallow pan. Bring to a boil, and boil for five minutes. 
Turn into your glasses, seal with parafiin cover, and 
place in cool, dry place. 

Currant and Red Ras^pberry Jelly. 

Use equal parts of currants and red raspberry, and 
follow the rule for the currant jelly. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Follow the rule for the currant jelly, using black- 
berries instead of currants. 



358 sciENTinc cooking. 

Qrape Jelly. 

Grapes should be picked over, washed and stems re- 
moved. Put into preserving-kettle, heat to boiling- 
point, mash, and boil for thirty minutes. Strain 
through the coarse sieve, and proceed same as for cur- 
rant .jelly. Wild grapes are best for flavor in making 
the grape jellies for eating with meats. 

Green Qrape Jelly. 

Grapes should be gathered .just as they begin to 
turn, and you make them same as grape jelly. 

Peach and Apple Jelly. 

TTse equal parts of peaches and apples, and pro- 
ceed same as for apple jelly. 

Plum Jelly. 

Use the Damson plum for this jelly. Pick over, 
wash, and prick' each Damson with a large needle. Make 
same as currant jelly, using three-fourths as much, 
sugar as you have fruit juice. 

Barberry Jelly. 

Pick fruit . for this jelly before the frost comes, 
while some of the fruit is still green. Make same as 
currant jelly. 

Blackberry Jam. 

. Pick over berries, place a few in bottom of pre- 
serving-kettle, and mash, using a wooden potato-masher, 
and continue until all are riiashed. Slowly heat to 
boiling-point, and add equal amount of sugar. Cook 
slowly for one hour. Put in wide-mouthed glass jars 
or tumblers. Seal with paraffin and put on cover to 



FRUITS — FRESH, CANNED AND PRESEKVED.*' 359 

keep out the dust. Keep in cool, dry place. Paraffin 
can be removed as you use the fruit, washed off and 
used again. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Use the recipe for blackberry jam, using raspberries 
instead of the blackberry. You can use either the 
"black-cap" or the red raspberry. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Select sour, smooth-skinned oranges. Thoroughly 
wash and wipe. Weigh oranges and allow three-fourths 
their weight in cut sugar. Remove peel in quarters. 
Cook until soft in boiling water to cover; drain, and 
with a spoon or silver fruit-knife remove the white 
lining, and with a sharp pair of scissors cut the thin 
yellow portion into fine strips. Divide oranges into 
sections, and remove all tough part and seeds. Put into 
kettle and heat to boiling-point. Gradually add sugar 
and cook slowly one hour. Add peel and cook one 
hour longer. Turn into glass tumblers, and seal. 

Grape=fruit Marmalade. 

Prepare same as orange marmalade, using care to 
remove all the white lining, as it is very bitter, but the 
grape-fruit makes fine marmalade. 

' Quince Honey. 

Pare and grate, or grind in food-chopper, six large 
quinces. Add to one pint boiling water five pounds of 
sugar. Stir over fire until sugar dissolves. Add quince 
and cook twenty minutes. Turn into glasses. When 
cold it should be the color and consistency of honey. 



A'B ENAMEL Gas Ranges 



As Easy to Clean 
aa a China Plate 



360 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CANNING. 



Canning is preserving fr^it that has been sterilized 
by boiling and placing it in sterilized, air-tight -jars. 
Fruit may be canned without sugar, and will keep just 
as well, if it has been sterilized and freed from all 
germ life, -and in some fruits it gives superior flavor 
to leave out the sugar. Such is the ease especially with 
the cherries, blackberries, raspberries and rhubarb. 

Fruit for canning wants to be fresh, firm and not 
over-ripe. The over-ripe fruit is apt to hold the germ, 
and this causes fermentation in a very short time. In. 
canning fruit where sugar is used, allow one-third its 
weight in sugar and three cups of water to each pound 
of sugar. Cook sugar and water together, for ten 
minutes to raake a syrup. Skim, and it is ready for 
the fruit. Cook fruit in small quantities at a time, and 
you can keep the fruit in perfect shape. Hard fruit 
such as quinces and pineapple must be cooked in boil- 
ing water until they are soft, then put in the syrup 
and finished. The sterilized jars are then filled with 
the fruit, and enough syrup added to overflow the jar 
and top fastened down. Let it stand until cool, and 
tighten tops the second time, using care that they are 
air-tight. While filling jars place them on cloth wrung 
out of hot water. Sterilize jars by filling with cold 
water and placing in vessel on a rest of some kind to 
keep them from breaking, and heat to the boiling-point. 

Canned Peaches. 

"Wipe peaches and place them in boiling water, and 
let them stand Iqng enough to loosen the skins. Re- 
move skin and cut into halves or cook whole. Add to 
the boiling syrup at once before they discolor. Follow 



FRUITS — FRESH. CANNED AND PRESERVED. 361 t 

directions for canning. If you prefer, you can peel 
the peach instead of skinning. 

Canned Pine°apple. 

Pare and remove eyes. Cut into slices or, cubes, or 
you can shred with silver fork and cook in half their 
weight in sugar without the water and put into air- 
tight jars; This last method is good for making sher- 
bets, fruit punches and fancy desserts. For sliced or 
cubed you follow direction for canning. 

Canned Pears. 

"Wash, wipe and pare fruit. Cook 'wi'hole, or in 
halves or quarters, according to fancy. Two cloves with 
hlossom removed and stuck into the pear, or a small 
piece of ginger-root, give an additional flavor, as the 
pear has little flavor of its own after it is canned. 
Bartlett pears are the best for canning. 

Canned Cherries. 

Wash, remove stems, and follow directions for can- 
ning. The large white and red cherries are the best 
for table use, but the old-fashioned Murillo is best for 
pies, and it does not want to be canned until it gets 
almost black on the tree. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Place the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin 
is easily removed. You can put them up whole or cut 
into pieces. If you use them whole, you wailt to cook 
them longer ; in either case they want to be thoroughly 
scalded. 



362 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

V 

Strawberry Preserves. 

Tick, wash, drain and cap the berries, then weigh 
them. Allow three-fourths their weight in sugar and 
a cup of water to the pound of sugar;- boil to a very- 
thick syrup and Skim. Drop in the berries a few at 
a time, and cook until they look clear. Remove to 
tumblers, and add more until all are cooked. Cook 
syrup again until thick, and add to the glasses of fruit. 
This way the berry keeps its shape and color. Always 
choose a dark-colored berry for preserving. 

Damson Preserves. 

Wa-sh and wipe Damsons, and with large neefdle 
prick them in several places. Prepare syrup same as 
for strawberries, but do not cook so thick. As soon 
as it has boiled a few moments skim and add Damsons 
a few at a time, that they may better keep their shape. 
Cook until soft and clear-looking. I'ake out the fruit 
and cook syrup until quite thick, and pour in the jars 
or glasses, and seal. 

Brandied Peaches. 

Tjse free-stone peaches, ripe and firm. Remove skin 
with boiling water as directed. For one peck of peaches 
use half their weight in sugar and one quart of high- 
proof alcohol or brandy. Put alternate layers of 
peaches and sugar in stone jars, and poui- on, alcohol. 
Lay a piece of linen under cover of jar, and cover 
Closely. These are fine with ice-cream. 



FRUITS — FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 363 

PICKLING. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

% peck White Heath 1 pint vinegar. 

cling peaches. 1 ounce stick cinnamon. 

21^ pounds brown sugar. Cloves. 

Boil sugar, vinegar and cinnamon twenty minutes. 
Dip peaches quickly in hot water, and rub off the fur 
with a crash towel.' Stick two cloves into each peach. 
Put into syrup and cook until soft, using half of the 
peaches at a time. Place in a stone jar wdth a stone 
cover. Cook syrup until thick, and pour over peaches. 
Pears are pickled in the same way; also Damsons. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles. 



3 pints tomatoes, peeled 


5 tablespoons chopped 


and chopped. 


onions. 


1 cup chopped celery. 


6 tablespoons mustard 


5 tablespoons red peppers, 


seed. 


chopped. 


% teaspoon cinnamon. 


% cup sugar. 


2 cups vinegar. 


Salt to 


taste. 



Mix ingredients, put in stone jar and cover. It can 
be used in five or six days, but will keep a long time. 

Chile Saace. 

12 ripe tomatoes. % cup brown sugar. , 

2 onions, chopped fine. 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

2 peppers, chopped fine. % teaspoon cayenne pepper. 

2 cups vinegar. Salt to taste. 

Peel and slice tomatoes, and put into preservilig- 
kettle with remaining ingredients. Heat to boiling- 
point, and cook slowly two 'and a half or three hours. 
Put in jars and seal. 



364 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



Cucumber Pickles. 



Wipe a gallon of small cucumbers, place them in a 
stone jar, and add a cup of salt dissolved in two quarts 
of boiling water, and let stand two days. Drain off 
brine, bring to ' boiling-point, pour over the cucumbers, 
and let them stand again for two days. Drain and 
wipe cucumbers, and pour over them one gallon of 
boiling water. Let them stand half a day, and drain. 
Cook the cucumbers in one gallon of vinegar, four red 
peppers, one stick of cinnamon, a teaspoon of cloves 
and a cup of brown sugar for eight or ten minutes. 
Put pickles in stone jar and strain the liquor over 
them. Cover, and they are ready^for use. You can 
put them in glass jars if you prefer. 

Chopped Pickle. 

1 gallon chopped tomatoes % cup salt. 

2 teaspoons pepper. % cup white mustard seed. 

3 teaspoons mustard. , 4 green peppers, sliced. 

3 teaspoons cinnamon. 3 chopped onions. 

2 quarts vinegar. 

Add salt to tomatoes, cover, let stand twenty-four 
hours, and> drain. Add spices to vinegar, and heat to 
boiling-point, then add tomatoes, peppers and onions. 
Cook fifteen minutes after the boiling-point is reached. 
Platee in stone or glass jars, and keep in cool place 

Chow-chow- 

4 pints green tomatoes. 2 quarts string heans. 

i cauliflower. y^ pound mustard seed, 

12 small cucumbers. 2 ounces tumeric. 

2 bunches celery. ' y^ ounce pepper. 
8 cups small onions. Salt to taste. 

5 red peppers. 1 gallon vinegar. 



FRUITS — FRESH, CANNED AND PRESERVED. 365 

I 

Prepare vegetables and ciat into small pieces. Cover 
■with salt, and let them stand a day and a night, then 
drain. Heat vinegar 'to boiling-point, and cook until, 
soft. Add spices ,about five minutes before removing 
from the fire, as it spoils spices to cook too long. 

Sliced Tomato Pickle. 

1 peek green tomatoes, 1 cup mustard Deed 

sliced thin. ^ (brown). 

4 onions, sliced tWn. 5 green sweet peppers, 

Vi ounce peppercorns. chopped fine. 

1% pounds brown sugar. 1 cup salt. ' 

^ Spri-nkle alternate layers of tomatoes with , onions 
and salt, and stand overnight. In the morning drain 
and put in preserying-kettle, adding the remainder of 
the ingredients and enough cider vinegar to cover. 
Heat gradually to boiling-point, and boil slowly half 
an hour. 

Mixed Pickle. 

Scald in boiling salted w^ter, until tender, one fin? 
head of cauliflower, one pint small white onionb, cu- 
cumbers cut into dicBj green beans cut into inch lengths, 
and some very small red peppers. As soon as tender 
drain them until dry, pack them in wide-mouthed bot- 
tles or jars, ancj boil enough good cider vinegar to cover 
them well, using' to each pint of vinegar two table- 
spoons of brown sugar, one level teaspoon of salt, two 
tablespoons each of Jjnglish powdered mustard and 
tumeric, to give a fine color. 

Preparation of Catsups. 

Cock ope gallon of choice, ripe tomatoes until you 
can rub them through a strainer fine enough to catch 
the seed. ' Return them to the fire, and cook until'they 



366 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

become quite thick. About twenty minutes before tak- 
ing up add a level teaspoon of cayenne pepper, one 
tablespooti of mustard seed, one-half tablespoon whole 
cloves (with blossom end removed), all tied up in a 
small muslin bag. At the same time add one-half cup 
of brown sugar and a cup of the best cider vinegar. 
Salt to taste. Seal air-tight, either in bottles or jugs. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

TJse cucumbers suitable for table use — those with 
small seeds. Grate them, salt lightly, and place in a 
bag to drain overnight ; in the morning season to taste 
with salt, pepper, a little cayenne and vinegar. Put 
in small jars, and seal tight for use in fall and winter. 
This is a fine sauce to serve with boiled or baked tish. 

Pickles and catsup all want to be kept in a cool, 
dry place, or they are apt to monld. Some say small 
pieces of horseradish will prevent them from moulding. 
It is wozth trying. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS., 367 

CHAPTER XL. 
HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

To Cream Butter. — If weather is cold, pour hot 
water in earthen bowl. Measure butter and turn into 
bowl, cut in small pieces, and let it rest for a few 
moments, then work with wooden spoon until soft and 
creamy. If there is any buttermilk remaining in the 
butter, drain it off as you cream. 

To Scald Milk. — Fill lower part of double boiler- 
partly full of boiling water, and place milk iji upper 
part. Cover and place over flame until the milk forms 
bubbles around the edge. 

Acidulated Water. — This is water to which one 
tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice is added to one 
quart of watei*. 

Fluid to Remove Spots on Furniture. — Use four 
ounces of ammonia, one ounce of glycerine, one ounce 
of Castile soap (white), and one-half ounce of alcohol. 
Dissolve the soap in" soft hot water, jising half a gallon. 
Add the remaining ingredients, apply with soft sponge, 
and polish with flannel. This will not hurt the furni- 
ture, and can be applied to dress fabrics — even silk.. 

To Butter Cracker Crumbs. — Allow one-fourth 
cup of cracker crumbs to a tablespoon of melted butter. 
Pour on slowly and stir with fo;rk that each crumb 
may be entirely coated. They want to be light and 
easily distributed- over the top of the dish for whict 
they are to be used. 



36{> SCIENTIFIC COOklMQ. 

To Extract Juice from Onion. — Cut piece . from 
side of onion, pull back the brown skin, press onion on 
a coarse sieve, and w^rk with a rotary motion. 

To Chop Parsley. — ^Wa;sh, dry on towel, remove 
le&,ves, gather very compaetly between thumb and fore- 
finger, and with a pair of scissors cut fine as muo/i as 
you wish. This can be done with a sharp vegetable- 
knife, but the scissors are best. , ■ 

To Shred Almonds. — Use blanched almonds, and 
cut them "lengthwise; of the nut. 

To Caramel Sugar. — Put into a smooth granite or 
aluminum skillet, and place over flame and stir con- 
stantly until meltigd and a light golden color, using 
care not to bum, and keep it free from the pan and 
spoon. You can use as much hot water as you have 
sugar, and cook to a thick syrup and use for sauces, 
creams, etc. 

To Make Glaze. — Four quarts of good stock re- 
duced to one cup. 

To Prevent Salt prom Lumping. — Mix one tea- 
spoon of cornstarch with half a cup of salt. 

Macaroon Crumbs. — ^Ilse dry macaroons, pound, and 
sift through coarse sieve. 

To Clean Range After Frying, — If fat spatters 
on the range during the process of frying, clean at 
once with newspapers. 

To Clean Frying-pans that are Used with ^at. — 
Drain all the fat out you can, wipe the articles with 
newspapers, and half the work of cleaning is done. 

Stains prom Claret Wine. — As soon as claret is 



\ HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 369 

spilled on a cloth, cover the spot with salt, let stand 
a few moments, and rinse in cold water. 

To Clean Tumblers.— Tumblers, in which milk has 
heen served should, first be rinsed in cold water before 
washing with the hot soapsuds. 

Washii^g Glass or China in Cold "Weather. — Put 
the article in the hot water, on the side so the expan- 
sion will be same all over. If the air is very frosty 
and the tumbler is put in on the bottom, it will prob- 
ably break at the point where the hot water reaches, 
from the fact that there is no expansion at the top. 

To "Wash "Water Bottles. — Fill the bottle half full 
of soapsuds with a little ammonia added to them, and 
•use some shot. Shake well for some moments. Empty, 
rinse with hot water, polish outside, and let stand to 
drain and dry inside. 

To Clean Mirrors and "Windows. — Rub over with' 
chamois skin wrinjg out of clean hot water, then polish 
with dry chamois skin. This saves much work and 
also strength. 

To CiiEAN Granite Ware. — "When mixtures being 
cooked have burned ir^ granite ware, fill vessel with 
cold water about half full, add tablespoonful of soda, 
cover and place on range where it will heat gradually 
to the boiling-point. Empty, and you will find it quite 
easy to clean. Should the article being cooked he not, 
burned, but only stuck, cover it closely and rest on 
cold surface; the steam that forms from contact of hot 
and cold will loosen the substance so you can take iti 
off quite easily. 

To Keep the Sink Drain Free from ■ Grease. — 
Pour down once or twice a week a Strong solution of 



370 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

lye, using about two quarts of boiling water and about 
half a can of good, strong lye or potash. Put this into 
the waste-pipe when you are leaving the kitchen for 
the night. 

To Cleae a Choked Dkain. — Should your drain get 
choked, dissolve a fourth of a pound of copperas in two 
quarts 6f hot water. If the first time does not open it 
it will be well to repeat before you send for the 
plumber. 

To Remove Grease Spot. — Use cold water and soap 
to remove grease from cotton or woolen goods, or you 
can cover the, spots with French chalk. The soap will 
leave a light ring, while the chalk will brush off and 
leave no mark. The chalk is fine for silk. 

To Remo\'e Iron Rust. — Lemon juice and salt are 
good when the rust first appears. Apply the lemon 
juice and cover with salt, and lay in the sun for three: 
or four hours. If this is not effective, you can try 
hydrochloric acid. After using the acid, dip the ar- 
ticle in ammonia water to neutralize the acid. 

To Remove Grass Stains from cotton goods, wash 
in alcohol. 

To Remove Ink Stains. — Use hydrochloric acid, and 
rinse in ammonia water. Wet the spot in warm water, 
apply soap, rub between the) hands, and generally the 
spot will disappear. ^ 

To CiiEAN the Tea. and Coffee Pot. — Free the pots 
from the leaves and grounds, wash thoroughly with cold 
water, and occasionally fill pats with cold water to 
which one tablespoon of borax has been added. Heat 
to the boiling-point to remove the discoloration, rinse 
•with hot water, wipe and dry. 



A-B GAS RANGES Si".^.-^ 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 371 

To Remove Stains from Furniture. — Dip flannel 
■cioth in very hot water and place over the spot. Re- 
move quickly and rub with a dry cloth. Repeat until 
the spot is removed. A little alcohol may. be used, but 
the work wants to be speedily done. 

Never put the cogs of your Dover egg-beater in 
"water. 

To Clean the Ice-chest. — Use lukewarm water in 
vrhich a little washing soda has been dissolved. Never 
use soap. A little Sapolio may be used to rettiove any 
spots. Should anything be spilled, wipe it out imme- 
diately. All things that have any odor should be put 
in the top of the box; milk, butter, meats and poultry 
in the bottom. Milk and butter should be. kept closely > 
covered. 

Ctj:an Piano Keys with soft cloth and alcohol. 

For Burn.— Use equal parts of white of egg and 
olive oil, well mixed and Applied at once, using old 
linen to cover. If this prescription is followed at once, - 
^here will be no blister. The cooking soda is fine to 
cover the burned surface, then over this put a soft 
cloth and keep wet with cold water. This stops the 
pain and draws out the fire. . 

To 'Remove Odor op. Fish. — Use a solution of am- 
monia and hot water, allowing one tablespoOnful to a 
gallon of water. 

To Ventilate a Room. — ^Place j)itcher or small 
Ijucket of cold water on the table of the sleeping-room, ' 
and it will absorb the gases that arise from rtispiration ; 
and for the reason that it does absorb gases, you should 
never drmk of water that stands for any length" of 
time in a room unless eloselv (hovered. 



372 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

To Prevent and Destroy Ants. — Prepare a solu- 
tion by using half a pound of flour of brimstone and 
one-fourth of a pound of potash. Place them in an 
iron vessel, and put over the fire until they are dis- 
solved, theii beat them to a powder. Use a portion in 
some water, sprinkling the places where the ants are 
found, and they will vacate at once. Borax and sugar 
mixed together, and placed in a small dish, is good t» 
keep them off. 

DijODORizER FOR SiCK-ROOM. — Freshly ground coffee 
placed on a saucer with a piece of gum of camphor 
placed in center, and camphor lighted, will produce a 
pleasant and healthful odor in the room. This I have 
always found satisfactory and economical., 

To Soften Boots and Sh^es. — Apply kerosene with: 
soft cloth, and you will find they become soft and 
pliable. It will also remove stains from furniture. 

To Remove Mildew. — Soak the article in sour milk 
and salt, and lay in the sun; or use chloride of lime 
made in solution by using a teaspoonful of lime to a, 
quart of water. 

To Free Stove-pdpe from Soot. — Put a piece of zinc 
in stove on hot coals, and as it bums it will clear the 
pipe. ' 

Things Not to Do. 

Never let your fresh meat remain in the papers in 
ice-box. 

' Never keep vinegar in anything but glass or earthoi. 
ware. 

Never use water from hot-wat€r pipe for cooking 
purposes; the gases are gone and the water flat. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



373 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



2 cups butter (packed) ...... 

4 " flour 

2 " granulated sugar 

2% " powdered sugar 

31/^ " confectioner's sugar . . 

2% ' ' brown sugar : 

9 large eggs >. v 

1 square Baker 's chocolate 

% cup almonds, blanched and 

chopped 

3 teaspoonfuls 

16 tablespoons . 

2 level tablespoonfuls 

4 " " , flour . ... 
2 gills 

2-5 drops of liquid 

1 pint finely chopped meat 

4 tablespoonfuls . 

2% cups granulated ccrn meal. . 

414 ' ' rye meal 

4%- " coffee 



= 1 pound. 

== 1 

= 1 

= 1 

= 1 

= 1 

= 1 

= 1 ounce 



= 1 



1 tablespoon. 
1 cup. 
1 ounce. 
, 1 " 
1 cup. 
1 teaspoon. 
1 pound. 
1 wineglass. 
1 pound 
1 " 
1 " 



The measuring of the present day, as taught in all 
schools of cookery, is understood to be l)evel, and flour 
is always sifted before measuring. It is understood 
everything is level, which no doubt gives more correct 
measurements. - 



374 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

TABLES FOR COOKING. 

Broiling. 

Time. 
AETictBS. Hours. Minutes. 

Steak, one inch thick 5 to 6 

Steak, one and one-half inch thick 8 to 10 

Lamb or mutton chops 8to 9 

Lamb or mutton chops in paper cases 10 

Quail . 10 

Quail in paper cases 12 

Chicken (small) 2t) 

Chicken, large, for plank .25 

Slices of halibut or salmon 15 to 20 

"VVhitefish, bluefish and shad . , 20 to 25 

Tripe • 5 

Boiling. 

Coffee 2 to- 3 

Soft-cooked eggs 3 to 5 

Leg of mutton 2" to 3 

Ham, weight 12 to 14 lbs 4 to 5 

Fowl, weight 4 to 5 lbs 2 to 3 

Turkey, weight 9 lbs 31/2 

Corned beef or tongues 3 to 4 

Cod and haddock, weight 3 to 5 lbs 25 to 30 

Halibut (thick), weight 2 to 3 lbs. 35 to 40 

Salmon, weight 2 to 3 lbs. 35 to 40 

Lobster 30 to 35 

White potatoes 25 to 30 

Sweet potatoes 20 to 25 

Asparagus 30 to 35 

String beans 2 to 3 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. ^ 375 

Time. 

Aeticles. Hours. ' Minutes. 

Lima and shell beans'. 1 to li/^ 

Young . beets 1 

Old beets ,. . 3 to 4 

Oysterplant . .' 45 to 60 

Onions ; 45 to 60 

Cabbage 35 to 60 

Turnips 35 to 45 

Parsnips 40 to 45 

Spinach 25 to 30 

Green corn (young) 8 to 10 

Green corn (old) 12 to 15 

Cauliflower .^ ... 30 to 35 

Stewed tomatoes 25 to 30 

Brussels Sprouts . . . ; , 20 to 25 

Rice , 20 to 25 

Macaroni 20 to 30 

Baking. 

White loaf (small) 30 to 35 

Graham loaf (small) : 35 to 40 

Biscuits or rolls (raised) 12 to 15 

Baking-powder biscuit ; 10 to 12 

Soup sticks 10 to 15 

Gems 25 to 30 

Muffins (yeast) 25 to 30 

Muffins (baking-powder) . 20 to 25 

Muffins (com) 20 to 25 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 

Cookies 8 to 10 

Cake (loaf) 40 to '60 

Cake (layer) ... , /......... 20 to 30 , 

Cake (pound) , . . ly^ to 1% 



376 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

\'' 

. , Time. 

Articles. Hours. Minutes. 

Cake (wedding) 3 

or steam 21/^ 

hours and bake 

in I slow oven . . ^/^ 

Fruit cake 1% to 3 

Batter pudding 35 to 45 

Tapioca pudding 1 

Rice pudding 1 

nice pudding (poor man's) 2^2 to 3 

Indian pudding 2 to 3 

Plum pudding i . 2 to 3 

Custard (baked) 35 to 40 

Custard (baked in cups) 20 to 30 

Pies (two crusts and uncooked fruit) 30 to 35 

Tarts , 15 to 20 

Vol-auvent 45 to 50 

Cheese straws 6 to 8 

Scalloped oysters 25 to 30 

Scalloped dishes of cooked mixtures '. . . . 15 to 20 

Baked beans 4 to 6 

Braised beef 314 to 4 

Beef, sirloin or fancy rib, weight 

5 lbs :. 1 to 114 

Beef, rib or sirloin, weight 10 lbs. '"^.^ 

(this gives rare roast) 1% ^ ; 

Beef, well done, 5 lbs 1% 

Beef, well done, 10 lbs 1 5-6 

Beef rump, rare, 10 lbs 1% 

Beef rump, well done, 10 lbs 2 

Beef (fillet) 25 to 30 

Mtitton (saddle) I14 to iy2 

Mutton (leg) 1% to 13^ 



HOUSEHOLD HINTR ^ 37? 

I 
TlMB. 

Articles. Hours. Minutes. 

Mutton (forequarter) 1 to I14 

Yeal (loin) ,. .... 31/^ to 4 

Veal (cushion) : . 3 to 31/2 

Pork (roast) 3 to 3l^ | 

Chickens (3 to 4 lbs.) . .' ; . . . ii^ to II/2 ' 

Turkey (9 lbs.) : . . . . 3 to 314 ' 

<^oose (weight, 9 lbs.) 2 to 21/2 

Du'ck (domestic) 1 to I14 

Duck (wild) 20 to 30 

Partridge . •. 45 to 50 

Grouse 25 to 30 

Fish (weighing from 3 to 4 lbs.) 45 to 60 

Pish (small) 20 to 30 

Frying. 

Muffins, fritters and doughnuts 3 to 5 

Croquettes and fish balls 1 

. Potatoes (raw) 5 to 8 

Breaded ' chops 7 to ( 8 

Smelt, trout and small fish ; 4 to 5 

Pillets of fish. ., 5 to 7 

Oysters 1 

Croutons 1 

Length of time in frying depends upon amount of 
exposed surface more than the size of the article to be 
cooked. 



378 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 



CHAPTEE XLI. 
FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKING. 

Aspic. Savory jelly for cold dishes. 

Au gratin. Dishes prepared with sauce and crumbs, 

and baked. 
Allemande (a la). German style. 
AgneoM. Lamb. 
Ambrosia. Food for the gods. 
Asafetida-. A bitter, acrid resin used by Asiatics as a. 

condiment. 
Avma. Oats. 
Angelica. A plant the stalks of which are preserved 

for decorating moulds. 
A I'Americaine. In American style. 
A I'ancicnt. In the old style. 
Aurora sauce. A white sauce to which lobster butter 

is added. 
Baba cakes. Cakes made from sweet yeast dough and 

baked in small moulds, and usually basted with 

wine as they cool. 
Bechamel (a la). Rich white sauffe made with stock, 

with the addition of cream just as you g& to serve 

it. This addition or infusion of cream was the 

work of the Earl of Bechamel, for whom this 

sauce is named. 
Bisqve. White soup made from shell fish. 
Bannocks. Cakes made of oatmeal or barley, and 

cooked on a griddle. 
Basil. A pot herb used by some in cooking. 



FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKING. 379 

Bay leaves. Leaves from a species of laurel. 

Bearnaise. (a la)! In Swiss style. 

Beurre noir. Black butter. 

Biscuit glace. Small cakes of ice-cream. 

Blanqueiie. "White meat in cream sauce. 

Blanch (to). To whiten. 

BcBvf a la ja/rdinerc Braised beef with -viegetables. 

Bombe glace. Moulded ice-cream and ice, or two kinds 
of ice-cream 

Bourgeoise (a la). Family style. 

Bouquet of herbs. Sprig each of thyme, savory, mar- 
joram and parsley. 

Cafe noir. Black coffee. 

Chartreuse. A mould lined with aspic, potatoes or rice, 
and filled in the center with meat, vegetables, nuts, 
etc. Chartreuse means anything concealed. The 
dish is said to have originated with the monks of 
Chartreuse. 

Chateaubriand. The thick cut from the center of, a 
large fillet of beef, weighing about one and one- 
fourth pounds. It takes its name from a French 
noblemah with whom it was a favorite dish. 

Chaud-froid. A gelatine sauce in which chicken, game 
and cutlets are masked, and are decorated with 
truffles, whites of eggs, etc. The word means "hot- 
cold." 

Chiffonade. Shredded very fine, cut in ribbons. 

Chives. A variety of small, green onions. 

Chou. ' Cabbage.' 

Chou-farci. Stuffed cabbage. 

Chou-fleur. Cauliflower. 

Chjttney. An Bast India sauce made of fruits, sugar, 
spices and vinegar. 'Tis a fine relish. 

Civet A o-ame stew. 



380 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Compotes. Fruits stewed in thick syrup and kept in 

the original shape by cooking a few at a time. 
Consomme de volaille. Chicken soup. 
Court bouillon. A highly ■ seasoned liquor in which to 

boil fish. 
Creole (a la). Cooked with tomatoes. 
Croustades. Bread cut into shapes and fried, in which 

to serve meats and game or vegetables mixed with 

sauce. 
Croutes aux champinous. Fresh mushrooms cooked with. 

sauce and served in cases made of French rolls 

fried in butter. 
Crecy (a Icb). Dishes containing carrots, usually as a 

puree. 
Be, d'. Of. 

Dinde farcie. Stuffed turkey. 
Deviled. Seasoned very' highly. 
Duchess. Term applied to mashed potatoes mixed with 

yolks of eggs, and made into fancy shape and 

browned. 
Endive}. A species of chicory used for salad. 
Eclair. A variety of French cakes made from puff- 
paste, and filled with whipped cream, sweetened 

and flavored, or with cooked custards. 
Entree. Usually served between courses. 
Escwrole. Endive with broad leaf. 
Espagnole. . A rich brown sauce highly flavored. 
En coquilles. In shells. 
En papillotes. In papers. 
Farci. Stuffed. 
Fanchonnette. Dessert baked in tins, and made from 

puff-paste, and covered with meringue, decorated 

with jelly and preserved fruits. 
Fillet mignons. Slices from fillet of beef. 



FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKING. 381 

Flamande (a la). Cooked with onions, .Flemish style. 

Flageolets. French bean (green). .^ 

Flourons. Crescent-shaped pieces of puflf-paste used to 
garnish meat pies, etc. 

Flutes. Finger-shaped rcills, 

Foie-gras. Goose liver. 

Fondue. A dish- prepared from cheese, and eggs. 

Frappe.^ Semi-frozen. 

Promage. Cheese. 

Fondant. Made from sugar and water, and is the foun- 
dation of the French bonbons. 

Gateau. Cake. 

Glace. Iced or glossed over. 

Grilled. Broiled. ' 

Hachis de hceiif. Beef hash. 

Homard. Lobster. 

Hoe cake. Made with white granulated cornmeal, salt 
and boiling water, and baked before the camp fire 
on a hoe. 

Hors-d'ceuvres. Side dishes. 

Italienne (a la). .In Italian style. 

Jambon froid. Cold ham. 

Jardiniere. Mixed vegetables. 

Kirschw-asser. Liquor made from cherry juice. 

Lait. Milk. 

Laituc. Lettuce. 

Macaroni a la fromage. Macaroni with cheese. 

Maigre. Vegetable soup without stock! 

Maitre d'hotel. Head steward. 

Mango. Stuffed and picklpd young melons. 

Maraschino. A cordial or liqueur. 

Marrons. Chestnuts. 

Noir. Black. 



382 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Noyau. A cordial. 

CEufs farcis. Stuffed eggs. 

Omelette a,ux champignon. Omelet with mushrooms. 

Pain. Bread. 

Panada. Bread and milk cooked to a paste. 

Pate . de foie gras. Paste made of fatted goose livers. 

Pommes. Apples. 

Pois. Peas. ^ 

Pommes de terre. Potatoes. 

Paulets sautes. Fried chicken. 

Potage. Soup. 

Ragout. Highly seasoned meat-dish. 

Removes. Koasts or principal dishes. 

Rechwiiffes. Warmed-over dishes. 

Salpicon. Highly seasoned minced meat-dish with thick 

sauce. 
Souffle. Puffed up as omelet, etc. 
Sucres. Sweets. 
Tarte aux pommes. Apple pie. 
Vol-au-vents. Made of very light puff-paste, and filled 

with creamed meats, fish, etc. They are cut oblong 

in shape as a rule. 



POOD COMBINATIONS. 383 

CHAPTER XLII. 
FOOD COMBINATIONS. 

Breakfast Menus. 

Orangesl 

Cream of Wheat with Sugar and Cream. 

Scrambled Eggs. Potatoes, Cut Pine and Fried. 

White Corn Muffins, 

Coffee, 

—X — 

Baked Apples. 

Oatmeal with Cream and Sugar 

Broiled Ham. Eggs. 

Baking-powder Biscuits. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Grape-fruit. 

Lamb. Chops. Creamed Potatoes. 

White Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Bananas. 

Puffed Rice with - Sugar and Cream. 

Egg Omelet. Lyonnaised Potatoes. 

Graham. Gems Griddle Cakes. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Grapes. / 

Wheatlet with Sugar and Cream. 
Beefsteak. French Fried Potatoes, 

- Pop-oversi ' Coffee. 



384 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Strawberries. 

Bacon and Fried Eggs. Baked Potatoes. 

Wheat Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

I Cantaloupe. 

Uncooked Cereal with Sugar and Cream. 

Chipped Beef in Cream. 

Hashed and Browned Potatoes. Ypast Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Raspberries. 

Rolled Oats with Sugar and Cream. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel. Sliced Cucumbers. 

Corn Muffins. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Pears. 

Triscuits with Sugar and Cream. 

Corn-beef Hash. Buttered Toast. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Blackberries. 

Boiled Rice with Sugar and Cream. 

Dropped Eggs. Waffles with Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Grapes. 

Fried Pan Fish. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. 

I Corn Muffins. 

Coffee. 



POOD COMBINATIONS. 385 

Wheatena with Sugar and Cream. . 

Creamed Fish. Corn Cakes. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Mixed Fruits. 

Baked Beans. Brown Bread. 

Sliced Cucumbers. 

Fish Balls. Coffee. 

) 
— X — 

Sliced Peaches in Cantaloupe Cups. 

Cream of Wheat with Sugar and Cream. 

Sliced Cold Meat. Toasted Brown Bread. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon Menus. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 

Baked Apples and Cream. 

Hot Rolls. Gingerbread. Cocoa.; 

-■ — X — 

Creamed Lamb. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Wafers with Cheese. Toast. 

Grapes. Cocoo.. 

— X — 

Chicken Salad. 

Baking-powder Biscuit. Orange Ice. 

, Coffee. 

— X — 

■Scalloped Oysters. Mayonnaise of Celery. 

Rolls. I Coffee. Small Cakes. 



386 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Dressed "Watercress. Brown Bread. 

Baked Apples. Tea. 

— X — 

Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Broiled Ham. Scalloped Potatoes. 

White Muffins. 

Pears. Butter Thins. 

— X — 

Cold Roast Beef. Corn Muffins. 

Sliced Peaches. 

Sponge Cake. Coffee. 

— X — 

Oyster Stew. 

Oyster Crackers. Pickles. 

Shredded Cabbage. French Dressing. 

Prune Whip. 

Tea. 

— X — 

Cold Sliced Turkey. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Lettuce with Maypnnaise. 

Cheese Straws. Tea. 

— X — 

Broiled Halibut Steak. 

Tartare Sauce. Thin Cornbread. 

Cucumbers. Coffee. 

— X — 

Beef .Stew with Dumplings. 

Banana Salad. Cherry Pie. 

- — X — 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

French Omelet. Bread and Butter. 

Watermelon. 



FOOD COMBIWATIOWS. 387 

Lobster, Newburg. 

Graham Muffins. Coffee. 

Strawberry Cream. Wafers. 

— X — 

Cold Sliced Tongue. 

Delmonico Potatoes. Cauliflower Salad. 

Baked Pears. 

— X — 

Sardines. Brown Bread and Butter, 

Sliced Tomatoes. Olives on Ice. Grapes. Cookies. 

Coffee. 



Dinner Menus. 



Vegetable Soup. 

Roast Beef. Macaroni with Cheese. 

Potatoes Browned with Roast. Lettuce Salad. 

Cheese Wafers. Apple Tapioca. 

Whipped Cream. Small Cups of Coffee. 

— X — 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Roast Fowl with Bread Stuffing. 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Celery. Vanilla Ice-cream. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Tomato Soup. 

Baked and Stuffed White Fish. 

Sauce HoUandaise. 
Potatoes in Blocks, Dressed with Butter. 
Onions Stuffed with Celery and Nuts. 
Coffee. 



388 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Clear Soup. 

Roast Lamb with Mint Sauce. Asparagus. 

Kieed Potatoes. Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Cake. Black Coffee. 

— X — 

Cream of' Corn Soup. 

MarylancJ Chicken. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

String Beans Dressed with Cream. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Peach Ice-cream in Cantaloupes. 

After-dinner Coffee. 



Bisque of Lobster. 

Veal Collops. Mashed Potatoes. Stuffed Egg-plant. 

Corn on Cob. Celery. Cream Pie. 

Coffee. 



Chicken Soup. 

Boileid Salmon with Egg Sauce. 

Cucumbers. Boiled Potatoes. New Peas. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Strawberries. White Cake. 

Black Coffee. 



Cream of Lettuce Soup. 

Broiled Shad. DresseH Cucumbers. 

Potatoes on Halt Shell. 

Asparagus with Drawn Butter. 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce. 

Coffee. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 389 

Clam Bisque. 

Lamb Chops. French Fried Potatoes. 

Spinach Timbals. Lima Beans with Cream Dressing. 

Strawberry Sherbet. Sponge Cake. 

Black Coffee. ' 

. — X — 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup. 

Eoast Duck. ' > Potdto Stuiifing, 

Browned Sweet ■Potatoes. 

Apple Sauce, White and Purple Grapes. 

'Roquefort Cheese. Crackers. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Bean Soup. - 

Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Bermuda Onion Salad with French Dressing on Lettuce. 

Fig Pudding. Lemon Sauce. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Consomme. 

' Fried Chicken. Fried Mush Garnish. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

Plum Sauce. Lettuce Salad. Cheese and Wafers. 

Sliced Peaches. Cake. 

Coffee. 

— X — 

Raw Oysters. 

Boiled Fowl with Egg Sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. Celery. 

Beet Salad. 

Washington Pie. Coffee. 



390 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Oyster Soup. 
Beefsteak. Mill Creek Potatoes. 

^Cauliflower au gratin. 
Shrimp Salad with Mayonnaise on 

Heart Leaves of Head Lettuce. 
Apple Pie with Ice-cream. 
Coffee. 



MENUS FOR FORMAL OCCASIONS. 
Luncheons. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 
Chicken Salad. Stuffed Egg-plant. 
Crisped Crackers, Spread with Cheese. 

Baking-powder Biscuit. 

Charlotte 'Busse. Coffee a la Demitasse, 

Nuts. Raisins. 

— X — 

Fruit Cocktail in Pineapple Cups. 

Breaded Mutton Chops. Cuban Sauce. 

Bread and Butter Folds. Potatoes on Half Shell. 

Romain Salad. French Dressing. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Coffee. Educator Crackers. 



Chafing=dish Suppers 

Oyster Rabbit. 

Shrimp Salad. Celery. 

Fruit Cups. 

— X — 

Mulligatawny Soup (reheated). 

Creamed Sweetbreads with Peas. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 
Shredded Pineapple. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS. 391 

Hallowe'en Supper. 

Whole Wheat "Sandwiches. 

Cabbage Salad Served in Cabbage Shell. 

Baked Apples. Gingerbread. 

Coft'ee. Pumpkin Pie. 



Menu for Christmas Dinner. 

Consomme. 

Olives. Celery. Salted Almonds. 

Eoast Turkey. 

Gooseberry Sauce with Chestnut Stuffing. 

Sweetbread and Chicken Croquettes. Green- Peas. 

Dressed Lettuce with Cheese Straws. 

Plum Pudding with Brandy Sauce. 

Cafe Noir. , 

Fruit. Crackers. Nuts. 

Cheese. 



Thanksgiving Dinner. 

Tomato Bouillon. Crisped Crackers. 

Celery. ' Salted Almonds. 

Roast Turkey. 

Cranberry Jelly. Mashed White Potatoes. 

Onions Stuffed with Celery and Nuts. 

Roast Red-head Duck. Browned Hominy. 

Curled Celery. 

Fruit Pudding. Brandy Hard Sauce. 

Ice-cream. 

Fancy Cakes. Nuts. Raisins. Fruit. 

Half Cups of Black Coffee. 

Crackers. Cheese. 



392 SCIENTIFIC COOKING. 

Menu for Course Dinner. 

Oyster- Cocktail. 

Consomme a la Royal. 

Salted Almonds. Celery. Olives. 

Chicken and Mushroom Patties. 

Soft-shell Crabs. Tartare Sauce. 

Cucumber Jelly. 

Roast Leg of Mutton with Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Mashed White Potatoes. 
I Creamed Brussels Sprouts. 

Fruit Sherbet. 
• — X — 
Canvasbaek Duck. Hominy Omelet. 

Currant Jelly. Celery. 

Nesselrode Pudding. ' Neapolitan Ice-cream. 

Candies. Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



INDEX. 



Almonds, Blanched, 196. 

Roasted, 196. 

Salted, 196. 
Apples, Baked without par- 
ing, 354. 

Baked (pared), 357. 

Baked with red raspberry 
jam, 238. 

Dumplings, 238. 

Ginger, 355. 

Sauce I., 354. 

Sauce II., 355. 

Tapioca, 230. 
Artichokes, 153. 

Boiled, 153. 

Bottoms, 153. 

Fried, 153. 
Asparagus, 169. 

A la Hollandaise, 171. 

Boiled, 170. 

Crustards, 171. 

In white sauce, 170. 

On toast, 170. 

With poached eggs, 171. 

Baking-powder Mixtures, 23. 

Biscuit, dropped, 23. 

Biscuit, beaten, 23. 

Corn egg bread, 25. 

Roly-poly, 23. 
Batters, 185. 

I., 185. 

II., 185. 

III., 185. 
Beans, Flageolets, 166. 

Green or snap, 165. 

Lima or butter, 166. 

Shelled, 166. 

With bacon, 166. 

Beef, 86. 

Best cuts for beefsteaks, 

88. 



Beef, Beefsteak w^th oyster 
blanket, 89. 

Beef with Yorkshire tim- 
bales, 91. 

Boiled corned, 94. 

Boiled tongue, 95. 

Braised, 94. 

Braided liver, 96. 

Braised tongue, 94. 

Broiled fillet, 89. 

Broiled liver, 96. 

Broiled tripe, 97. 

Chateaubriand steak, 90. 

CooHing ( temperature ) , 
87. 

Corned, 94. 

Corned hash, 97. 

Creole tripe, 97. 

Divisions, 87. 

Dried beef relish, 95. 

Fillet of beef with vege- 
tables, 92. 

Fried tripe in batter, 96. 

Hamburg steak, 90. 

Larded fillet, 92. 

Llv«r and bacon, 95. 

Mignon fillets with sauce, 
89. 

Pot roast,' 93. 

Pressed flank, 93. 
. Roast, 90. 

Roast with Spanish sauce, 
98. 

Sautgd fillet with mush- 
room caps, 89. 

Stuffed heal-t, 94. 

WayS' of warming over 
beef, 97. • ': 

Beets, 164. ' f 

Greens, boiled, 164. 

In vjnegar, 164. 

Sour sauce, 164. 

Sugared, 164. 



394 



INDEX. 



Beverages, 2G2. 
Boiling, 10. 
Brains, Calf's, 115. 

Marinade of, 115. 
Bread and Bread-making, 13. 

Baking, 14. 

Boston brown, 19. 

Bread sticks, 18. 

Broche, 25. 

Entire wheat, 17. 

German coffee, 20. 

Graham, 18. 

Hot cross buns, 21. 

Quick, IS. 

Rice muffins, 21. 

Rye, 19. 

Swedish, 20. 

Yeast, 13. 

Yeast muffins, 21. 
Broiling, 10. 
Brussels sprouts, 156. 

With butter, 156. 
Butter, 5. 

Cabbage, 157. 

Boiled, 157. 

EscallopBd, 157. 

Purple, with wine, 158. 

Slaw, 158. 
Cakes (fancy), 319. 

Almond macaroons, 320. 

Cocoanut macaroons, 320. 

Cocoanut cakes, 319. 

Macaroons, 320. 

Stuffed dates, 320. 
Cakes (sponge), 296. 

Angel food, 300. 

Cream sponge, 300? 

Hot water sponge, 299. 

Lady fingers, 301. 

Sunshine, 301. 

Sponge drops, 302. 

To mix sponge cake, 296. 
Cakes (with butter), 303. 

Chocolate, 305. 

Chocolate marshmallow, 
306. 

Citron, 308. 

Cream, 310. 

Delicate white, 304. 



Cakes, Devil's food, 305. 
ficlairs, 311. 

Fruit, 311. 

Gold, 309. 

Lemon queens, 306. 

My Lady Baltimore, 309. 

My Lady Baltimore fill- 
ing, 309. 

One egg, 303. 

Orange, 304. 

Pound, 307. 

Wedding, 307. 
CanapSs, Anchovy, 286. 

Caviare, 287. 

Cheese I., 286. 

Cheese II., 28G. 

Lobster, 287. 

Sardines, 286. 
Candies, Burnt almond, 326. 

Butter-scotch, 321. 

Chocolate caramel, 321. 

Chocolate creams; 322. 

Creamed walnuts, 323. 

Dipped nuts, 325. 
Canning Cherries, 361. 

Peaches, 360. 

Pineapple, 361. 

Pears, 361. 

Tomatoes, 361. 
Carrots, 161. 

Border for peas, 161. 

Creamed, 161. 
Cauliflower, 155. 

A la Hollandaise. 156. 

Fried, 156. 

With cheese, 156. 
Celery, 162. 

Creamed, 162. 
Cereals, 33. 

Boiled macaroni, 39. 

Macaroni with cheese, 34. 

Rice With cheese, 34. 

Rissoto a, la Creole,. 34. 

Spaghetti a, I'ltalienne, 
36. 
Chafing-dish, 327. 

Barbecued ham, 333. 

Broiled sweetbread, 332. 

Clams, k la Newburg, 332. 

Deviled tomatoes, 334. 



INDEX. 



395 



Chafing-dish, Egg, '328. 

Curried, 328. 
^ Scrambled, 328. 

With mushrooms, 329. 
Fresh mushrooms, 

sautgd, 334. 
French peas, 333. 
Fried oysters, 330. 
Fried tomatoes, 334. 
Fruit Canapgs, 333. 
Lobster &, la Newburg, 

333. 
Mutton with jelly and 

wine, 333. 
Oyster stew, 331. 

Fried, 334. 

Panned, 333. 

With sherry, 330. 
Sardines, 330. 
Shrimp k la Newburg, 

331. 
Tomato rarebit, 332. 
Cheese, 5, 

Chestnuts, Boiled, 195. 
Cup. 187. 
Cutlets, 197. 
Preserves, 197. 
Chicken, 120. 

A la meringo, 126. 

And oysters, 134. 

Boiled, 124. 

Broiled, 123. 

Brown fricassee, 125. 

Creamed, 134. 

:6n casserole, 127. 

Fried a la Kentucky, 125. 

Gumbo, 129. 

In cream, k la Denver, 

126. 
Jellied, 128. 
Pie, 128. 
Planked, 127. 
Slightly tainted, 124. 
Stuffed,^ 129. 
To bone, 123. 
To cut up, 122. 
To draw and singe, 121. 
To stuff, 122. 
To truss, 122. 
White tricassee, 125. I 



Chicory or endive, 163. 
Chocolate, 269. 

Sweetened, 269. 
Chowders, Clam, 54. 

Clam a, la Creole, 53. 

Fish, 53. 

Oyster, 52. 
Clams, 71. 

Cocktail, 76. 

Fried, 82. 

Little neck, 81. 

Roasted, 81. 

Steamed, 81. 
Cocoa, 267. 

Breakfast, 268. ' 

Reception, 269. 

Shells, 268. 

With brandy, 269 
Coffee, 264. 

Boiled, 266. 

Cafg au lait, 267. 

Filtered, 266. 

Vienna, 267. 
Cookery, 9. 

Combining ingredie'nts, 
12. 

Measuring ingredients, 
12. 

The Are, 9. 

Ways of cooking, 9. 
Cookies, 291. 

Almon*, 293. 

Chocolate, 293. 

Nut, 293. 
Corn, 168. 

Boiled on cob, 168. 

Fried, 169. 

Fritters, 169. 

Oysters, 169. 

Succotash, 168. 
Crabs, 73. 

Deviled, 73. 

Escalloped, 73. 

Fried (soft-shell), 73. 
Croquettes, Cheese, 181. 

Chestnut balls, 181. 

Chicken, 180. 

Chicken and sweetbread, 
180. 



396 



INDEX. 



Croquettes, Chicken and 
mushrooms, 180. 

Oysters, 183. 
Cucumbers, 171. 

Fried, 172. 

Stuffed, 171. 

Dandelion Geeens, Boiled, 

165. 
"Desserts (cold), 240. 

Apple snow, 246. 

Banana cream, 244. 

Caramel charlotte, 243. 

Caramel custard, 245. 

Charlotte Russe, 243. 

Cold cabinet pudding, 242. 

Custard (baked), 245. 

Custard (boiled), 246. 

Fruit salad, 246 . 

Jellied walnuts, 241. 

Lemon jelly, 240. 

Orange jelly, 240. 

Pineapple Bavarian 
cream, 24'5. 

Snow pudding, 241. 

Strawberry sponge, 244. 

To whip cream, 242. 

Wine jelly, 240. 
Desserts (frozen), 247. 

Freezing, 248. 

General rules for ice- 
cream mixtures, 248. 

Molding, 249. 

Packing, 249. 
Desserts (pastry), 222. 

Ba,nbury tarts, 222. 

Cheese cakes, 222. 

Cocoanut cakes, 223. 

Meringues, 224. 

Meringues with puff 
paste, 223. 

Peach tarts with brandy, 
224. 

Tarts, 224. 
Dinner, Course, 392. 
Doughnuts, 30. • 

Quick, 30. 

Raised, 30. 

£<6S, 199. 



Eggs, A la Buckingham, 203. 

A la Creole, 207. 

A la Spanish, 207. 

Au Gratin, 203. 

Boiled, 199. 

Buttered, 203. 

Buttered, with fried to- 
matoes, 203. 

Caramel sauce for nut 
omelet, 208. 

Cheese omelet, 208. 

Curried, 204. 

Fried, 204. 

In potato shells, 201. 

Nut omelet with caramel 
sauice, 208. 

Omelets, 206. 

Omelet confection, 208. 

Omelets with meats or 
vegetables, 208. 

Plain omelet, 206. 

Poached, 200. 

Poached in tomato sauce, 
201. 

Poached in milk, 202. 

Poached with mushrooms, 
201. 

Scalloped, 204. 

Scrambled a la Creole, 
202. 

Scrambled with Anchovy, 
203. 

Shirred, 202. 

Shirred in batter, 203. 

Souffle, 206. 

Spanish sauce, 207. 

Stuffed, 205. 

Stuffed with chicken in 
rame(luins, 205. 

With ham on toast (Wal- 
dorf style), 202. 
Entrges, Aspic jelly, 191. 

Birds in aspic, 193. 

Cheese souffle, 190. 

Cucumber sauce, 192. 

Curried lobster in timbalO: 
moulds, 193. 

Deviled crabs, 188. 

Deviled oysters, 188. 



INDEX. 



397 



Entrees, Egg custard fpr as- 
pic, 198. 

Fillets of chicken, 189. 

Moulded salmon with cu- 
cumber safice, 192. 

Quail pie, 190. 

Eules for aspic, 191. 

Shad roe, tartar sauce., 
188. 

Sweetbreads §. la Span- 
ish, 188. 

Sweetbread and chicken 
cutlets, 181. 

Fillings, 312. 

, Chocolate, 313. 

Chocolate cream; 312. 

Cocoanut, 313. 

Cream I., 312. 

Cream filling with straw- 
berries, 312. 

Date, 312. 

Fig, 314. 

Lemon, 313. 

Pineapple, 315. 
Fish, 57. 

Baked, 60. 

Baked halibut steak, 62. 

Boiled, 57. , 

Broiled finnan chops, 60. 

Codfish, balls, 65.. 

Creamed codfish, 65. 

curry of fish, 67. 

Fillets of flounder, 62. 

Fillets of haddock with 
oyster stuffing, 60. 
' Fried smelts, 67. 

Haddie, 65. 

Oyster sauce, 61. 

Oyster stuffing, 61. 

Pan fish, 68. 

Planked shad, 63. 

Shad roe with tartar 
sauce, 63. 

Stuffed haddock with 
oyster sauce, 61. 

Stuffing for baked, 60. 

I'artaP sauce, 64. 

To cook salt mackerel, 64. 

To skin and bone, 58. 



Fish, Turbans of halibut, 54. 

Whitebait, 68. 
Fondants, 321. 

Coffee, 324. 

Glac6 fruits, 326. 

Hoarhound, 321. 

Ice-creajH, 321. 

Maple, 325. 

Mint creams, 325. ■ 

Syrup for confections, 
323. , 

Syrup for, glace nuts and 
fruits, 325. 

White, , 324. 
Food, 1. 

Butter, 5. 

Diet, proper, 2. 

Inorganic, 1. 

Milk, composition, etc., 4. 

Organic, 1. 

Salts, 3. 

Sugar, 3. 

Water,' 2. 
Food combinations, 383. 
Food for children, 348. 

Bread and cereals, 350. ' 

Desserts, 350. 

Drinks, 351. 

Fish to be served, 349. 

Meat juice on bread, 348. 

Meats not to be served, 
348. ' 

Meats to be served, 348. 

Objection to sweets, 351. 

Soups, 349. 

Vegetables, 349. 
French terms used in cook- 
ery, 378.. 
Fritters, Apple, I., 186. 

Apple, II., 186. ■ 

Banana, 186.' 

Cauliflower, 187. 

Clam, 187. 

Fruit, 186. 

Tomato, 187. , 
Frogs, To fry, 75. 

To prepare, 75. 
Frostings, 314. 

Boiled, 316. 

Boiled chocolate, 316. 



398 



INDEX. 



Frostings, Brown sugar, 316. 

Chocolate, 315. 

Cream, 315. 

Lemon, 315. 

Opera caramel, 317. 

Orange, 314. 

Ornamental, 317. 

Red raspberry, 314. 

Strawberry, 314. 
Fruits, G. 

To prepare and serve 
raw, 6. 

Where they came from 
originally, 8. 

Cantaloupe, 353. 

Cocktail, 353. 

Grape fruit, 353. 

Oranges, 352. 

Pears and plums, 354. 
Fruit punches, 270. 

Club I., 270. 

Cherry, 271. 

Claret cup, 271. 

Champagne, 271. 

Unfermented grape juice, 
270. 

Game, 131. > 

Belgian hare, baked, 134. 

Broiled quail, 132. 

Broiled venison steak, 
132. 

Canvasback duck, 131. 

Fried plover, 138. 

Guinea fowl, 132. 

Quail pie, 134. 

Saddle of venison, 132. 

Warmed-over dishes, 134. 
Gingerbread, 291. 

Ginger snaps, 292. 

Sour milk, 291. 

Soft molasses, 291. 

Sugar, 291. 
Goose, Roast, 131. 

With potato stuffing, 131. 
Griddle cakes, 27. 

Bread, 28. 

Buckwheat, 29. 

Entire wheat, 27. 

Flannel, 27. 



Griddle cakes. Rice, 28. 
Rice Waffles, 29. 
Sour milk cakes, 28. 

Ham, 118. 

Boiled, 119. 
Broiled, 118. 
Ham and eggs, 119. 

Household hints, 367. 

ICE-CBEAMS, 252. 

Baked Alaska, 256. 

Biscuit Tortoni, 261. 

Bisque, .255. 

Bomb glac6, 259. 

Cafg Parfalt, 258. 

Caramel, 254. 

Chocolate, 254. 

Chocolate sauce, 253. 

Claret sauce, 258. 

Coffee, 254. 

Coffee mousse, 260. 

French, 253. 

Frozen pudding, 256. 

Ginger, 255. 

Kresch wasser frappS, 

257. 
Macaroon, 255. 
Maple parfait, 260. 
Maraschino or ladies' 

punch, 258. 
Mousse marron, 260. 
Neapolitan, 256. 
Nesselrod pudding, 259. 
Peach, 256. 
Pistachio, 256. 
Punch, 258. 
Strawberry, 255. 
Strawberry mousse, 258. 
Sultana roll with claret 

sauce, 258. 
Tom and Jerry pudding, 

257. 
Tom and Jerry punch, 

257. 
Vanilla, 253. 
Ices, 250. 

Apricot sorbet, 251. 
Cardinal punch, 252. 



INDEX. 



399 



Ices, Chocolate- -with whipped 

cream, 251. 
Creme de menth, 251. 
Currant anj red raspber- 
ry, 251. 
Currant sherlset, 250. 
Pineapple with, cream, 

252. 
Roman punch, 252. 
Invalid cookery, 335. 

Albuminized milk, 340'. 
Apple water, 335. 
Asparague on toast, 346. 
Barley water, 337. 
Bottled beef tea, 342. . 
Broiled beef tea, 341. 
Broiled birds in buttered 

cases, 346. 
Broiled chicken breast, 

347.- 
Chicken croquettes, 347. 
Cocoa cordial, 341. 
Cteam of corn soup, '347. 
Drink in sick-room, 339. 
Egg-nog, I., 340. 
Egg-nog, II., 340. 
Expressed beef juice, 341. 
Flaxseed lemonade, 339. 
Frapped beef tea, 342. 
Grape Juice, 338. 
Gpuels and broths, 34.2. 

Arrowroot, 343. 

Barley, 343. 

Chicken broth, 344. 

Clam broth, 344. 

Farina, 343. 

Flour, 342, 

Imperial granum, 344. 

Mutton broth, 344. 

Oatmeal, 344. 
Hot-water egg-nog, 341. 
Koumiss, 340. 
Lemonade, 339. 
Milk punch, 340. 
_ Mushes, Indian meal, 345, 

Oatmeal, 345. 

Rolled oats, 345. 
Oatmeal water,. 339. 
Orangeade; 339. 
Rice water, 337. 



Invalid cookery. Sandwiches., 

Eg§, 346. 

Raw beef, 345. 
Syrup for sweetening, 

339. 
Tamarand water, 338. 
Toast water, 338. 

Jams, 358. 

Blackberry, 358. 

Grape fruit, 359. 

Orange, 357. 

Quince, 359. 

Quince honey, 359. 

Raspberry, red and 
black, 359. 
Jellies, 356. 

Apple, 357. 

Apple and peach, 358. 

Barberry, 358. 

Blackberry, 357. 

Crab-apple, 357. 

Currant, 357. 

Currant and red raspber- 
ry, '357. 

Gpape, 357. 

Green grape, 3'58. 
^ Plum, 358. 

Lamb, 106. 

Crown roast of, 110." 

Kidneys, 112. 

Minced lamb on toast, 
112: 

Roast, 110. 

Scalloped, 112. 
Lettuce, 163. 
Lobsters, 71. 

a' la AmSricaine, 84. 

Baked live, 84. 

Boiled, 73. 

Broiled, 83. 

Canapes, 85. 

Cocktail, 82. 

Curried, 83. 

Deviled, 82. 

Farcl, 83. 

Newburg, 84. 

Patties, 85. 

Plain, 82. 

Scalloped, 83. 



400 



INDEX. 



Lobsters, To determine the 
freshness of^ 72. 
To open, 72. 
With mushrooms, 85. 

Menus, For breakfasts, 383. 
Chafing-dish supper, 390. 
Course dinner, 392. 
Dinners, 387. 
Hallowe'en supper, 391. 
Luncheons, 385, 390. 
Thanksgiving dinner, 391. 
Meringues, 224. 

Meringue I., 225. 
Meringue II., 225. 
Meringue kisses, 225. 
With ice-cream, 226. 
With nuts, 226. 
Muffins, 24. 
Berry, 24. 
Corn, 25. 
Padges, 26. 
One-egg, 24. 
Pop-overs, 26. 
Rice, 24. 
Mushrooms, 146. 

To prepare, 147. 
Mutton, Boiled leg, l06. 

Boned and stuffed leg of 

roasted, 109. 
Broiled chops, 107, 
Chops a la Mailntenon, 

108. 
Curried, 110. 
Curry sauce. 111. 
M u s h r oom preparation 

for Maintenon , chops, 

108. 
Pan-broiled chops, 1'08. 
Scotch broth. 111. 

■ Oystebs, Broiled, 78. 
Cocktail, 73. 
Fancy roast, 77. 
Fried, 79. 
Fried in batter, 79. 
In bacon blankets, 79. 
In brown sauce, 78. 
In cream, 77. 
On the half-shell, 76. 



Oysters, Roasted, 77. 
Sauted, 78. 
Scalloped, 78. 
Stew, 76. 

With .cabbage slaw, 80. 
With celery, 80. 
With Philadelphia relish, 
80. 

Paesnips, 173. 

Fritters, 173. 
Pastry, 209. 

Entire wheat for salads, 
213. 

Flaky paste, 212. 

Patty shells,' 211. 

Plain paste, 212. 

Puff paste, ,210. 

To bake, 211. 

Vol-au-vents, 212. 
Peppers, 173. 

Stuffed, I., 174. 

Stuffed, II., 174. 
Pickling, 363. 

Chile sauce, 363. 

Chopped, 364. 

Chow-chow, -364. 

Cucumber, 364. 

Minced, 365. 

Preparation of catsup, 
365. 

Ripe tomatoes, 363. 

Tomato catsup, 365. 
Pies, 214. 

Apple, 215. 

Apple custard, 216. 

Blueberry, 216. 

Cherry, 220. 

Cranberry, 216. 

Cream I., 218. 

Cream II., 219. 

Currant, 217. ' 

Custard, 217. 

Lemon, 218. 

Mince, 220. 

Mincemeat, 221. 

Peach I., 219. 

Peach II., 220. 

Prune, 218. 

Pumpkin, 219. 



INDKX. 



401 



Pies, Raisin, 216. 

Rhubarb, 217. 

Squash, 219. 
Pork, 116. 

Breakfast bacoa, 118. 

Chops with apple sauce, 
117. 

Roasted, 116. 

Roast sparerib ■with ap- 
ples, 117. 

Sausage, 119. 

■Sausage with fried ap- 
ples, 119. 

Tenderloin, 118. 
Potatoes (white), 148.- 

Baked, 148. 

Boiled, 148. 

Croquettes, 149. 

Curls for garnish, 151. 

Delmonico, 150. 

Duchess, 148. 

Escalloped, 150. 

French fried, 149. 

Hashed and browned, 151. 

Lyonnaised, 152. 

Mashed, 149. 

Mill Creek, 150. 

O'Brion, 149. 

Sweet, 151. 152. 
Baked, 151. 
Broiled, 152. 
Candied, 151. 
Croquettes, 152. 
Mashed, 152. 
With "wine, 151. 
Poultry and game, 120-134. 
Preserved brandied peaches, 
362. 

Damsons, 362. 

Strawberries, 362. 
Puddings (hot), 230. 

Apple tapioca, 2a0. 

Blueberry, 234. 

Chocolate, 235. 

Chocolate Souffle, 233. 

Corn, 231. 

Cottage. »32. 

Custard soufflg, 232. 

English plum, 237. 

Fig, 236. 



Puddings, French fruit, 236. 
Graham. 235. 
Indian, 230. 
Orange puffs, 231. 
Peach tapioca, 231. 
Raisin roly-poly, 233. 
Rice, 230. 

Scalloped apples, 232. 
Snowballs, 235. 
Steamed berry, 234. 
Suet, 236. 

Quail, Broiled, 132. 

Pie, 190. 
Quinces, Baked, 355. 
Quince jam, 359. 

Jelly, 357. ^ 

Rhxtbarb Sauce, 356. 

Salads, 276. 

Asparagus, 278. 

A la ^Normandy, 279. 

Banana, 282. 

Bermuda onion, 285. 

Brazilian, 281. 

Cabbage, 278. 

Celery, 277. 

Cheese, 285. 

Chicken, 284. 

Chicken and sweetbread. 
285. 

Crais in tomatoes, 283. 

Cucumber and tomato, 
277. 

Cucumber cups with let- 
tuce, -277. 

Cucumber jelly, 281. 

Cucumber to serve with 
flsh, 277. 

Egg, 281. 

Endive, 278. ^ 

Fish with cucumbers, 284. 

Lettuce, 276. 

Lettuce and tomato. 276. 

Lobster. 283. 

Orange, 282. 

Oyster, 284. 

Pimento, 285. 

Potato, 278. 



402 



INDEX. 



Salads, Russian, 279. 
Sardine, 282. 
Shrimp, 283. 
Solferino, 279. 
Stuffed tomatoes, 279. 
Sweetbread and cucum- 
ber, 282. 
Tomato jelly, 280. 
Tomato with horseradish, 

280. 
Waldorf Astoria, 281. 
Water cress, 277. 

Salad Dbessings, 272. 
Boiled, 274. 
Cream, 274. 

Cream mayonnaise, :.'76. 
Curry, 275. 
French I., 273. 
French II., 274. 
Green mayounaise, 276. 
Horseradish, 274. 
Quick mayonnaise, 275. 
Red mayonnaise, 276. 
Whipped cream with 

lemon juice, 275. 
Salsify or oyster plant, 172. 
Fritters, 172. 
In cream sauce, 172.'' 
Sandwiches, 287. 

Bread and butter folds, 

288. 
Chicken, 289. 
Chopped ham, 288. 
Cottage cheese and cress, 

290. 
Deviled ham, 290. 
Egg, 288. 
Ginger, 289. 
Japanese, 290. 
Orange, 290. 
Rolled bread, 288. 
Sauces (fish and meat), 135. 
Apple, 144. 
Allemande, 187. 
Bgchamel, 137. 
Bread sauce for partridge 

and grouse, 44. 
Brown, 138. 



Sauces, Brown mushroom, 138. 
Caper, 137. 
Celery, 141. 
Cranberry, 144. 
Cream, 136. 
Cucumber- with whipped 

cream, 141. . 
Currant, 139. 
Curry, 144. 
Drawn butter, 137. 
Egg, 44. 

HoUandaise, 142. 
Hollandaise for chops, 

142. 
Lobster butter, 141. 
Mattre de HOtel butter, 

142. 
Mint, 143. 
Mushroom and tomato, 

144. 
Olive, 140. 
Orange, 139. 
Oysters, 140. 
Piquant, 138. 
Spanish, 140. 
Tartar, 141. 
Tartare, 143. 
Tomato, 138. 
Tomato Cream, 140. 
Veloute, 136. 
White sauce I. (thin), 

136. 
White sauce 11., 136. 
White sauce III., for cut- 
lets and croquettes 
(thick), 136. 
Sauces (pudding), 227. 

1 Brandy, 229« 

^ Caramel, 229. 
Cream, 227. 
Foamy, 229. 
Lemon I., 227. 
Liquid lemon XL, 227. 
Orange, 227. 
Red raspberry, 228. 
Strawberry, 228. 
Wine, 228. 
Shortcakes, 31. 

Strawberry, 31. 

To make the sauce, 31. 



INDEX. 



403 



Shortcakes, To prepare the 

berry, 31. 
Soup stocks, 36. 
Bisque, 36. 
Bouillon, 36. 
Broths, 36. 
Brown, 36. 
Cream, 36. 
Pur&es, 36. 
White, 36. 
To bind soups, 37. 
To clear soups, 37. 
Bouillon, 38. 
Bouillon, tomato, 38. 
Bouillon, tomato with 

oysters, 38. 
Chicken, 39. 
Chicken broth, 40. 
Consommes, 44. 

Aux pates, 45. 

A la-royale, 45. 

Princess, 45. 

With poached egg, 45. 
Cream, 40. 

Asparagus of cream, 41. 

Cauliflower of cream, 
40. 

Celery of cream, 42. 
' Lettuce of cream, 41. 

Spinach of cream, 42. 

Tomato of cream, 51. 
Mock turtle, 43. 
Mulligatawny, 43. 
Portage a. la Reine, 40. 
Scotch broth, 42. . 
Soups with fish stock, 45. 
Clam bouillon, 46.' 
Clam, with poached eggs, 

45. 
Lobster bisque, 47. 
Oyster, 46. 
Oyster stew," 46. 
Scallop stew, 47. 
Soups without stock, 48. 
Bean, 49. 
Black bean, 48. 
Celery, 49. 
Corn, 48. 
Pea, 48. 
Potato, 50. 



Soups without stock. Split 
pea, 50. 

Squash, 51. 
. Tomato, 51. 

Vegetable, 52. 
Spinach, 174. 

A la Bechamel, 175. 

Boiled, 175.. 

Purge, 175. 
Stuffing, 129. 

Chestnut, 130. 

Oyster, 130. 
Sweetbreads, 113. 

Braised &n casserole, 114. 

Broiled, 114. 

Creamed, 113. 

Creamed, and chicken, 
114. 

Cutlets with asparagus 
tips, 114. 

Fried, 114. 

Larded, 115. 

Sautgd, 114. 

Tables, Time, for cooking, 
374-377. 

For baking, 375. 

For boiling, 374. 

For broiling, 374. 

For cooking, 374. 

For frying, 377. 

Of weights and measures, 
373.> 
Tea, 262. 

Five o'clock, 264. 

Iced, 264. 

Russian, 264. 

To make, 263. 

With mint, 264. 
Terrapin, 75. 

To dress, 75. 

To Sterw, 75. 
Timbales, 183. 

Chicken, 184. 

Lobster, 184. 

Swedish timbale batter, 
183. 
Toast, 22. 

Brown bread, 22. 

Cream, 22. 



404 



INDEX. 



Toast, Dry, 22. 

For garnishing, 23. 

Milk, 22. 

Water, 22. 
Tomatoes, 176. 

Broiled, 178. 

Deviled, 179. 

Fried, 178. 

Scalloped, 177. 

Stewed, 177. 

Stewed S, la Spanish, 177. 

Stuffed, 178. 

To prepare, 177, 



Truffles, 146. 

To prepare, 147. 
Vegetables, 145-179. 

Care of, 145. 

Cooking of, 146. 
Wafers, 291. 

Hermits, 292. 

Rolled, 294. 

Sand tarts, 294. 

Vanilla, 292. 
Water, to distill, 2. 

To drink, 2. 

To freeze, 2. 




NOT HO W CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 



A-B Gas Ranges 

are made, as one of our large customers expresses^ it, 

"Just a little bit better than seems necessary to please 
patrons." 





No. 22-B. A-B Half Til? Gas Range 




The most compact Cabinet Range ever designed. 
While this range only measures 33 inches over all, it 
_ has a large oven and broiler capacitj^ and five cook- 
ing burners. Just the range for the small kitchen. 
Sanitary — Convenient — ^Economical 
A-B STOVE COMPANY. BATTLE CREEK, MICH. 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 





NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 



A-B Gas Ranges 





No. 25-B. A-B Regular Range 



All Enamel Finish 

Requires No Stove Blacking. 
Glass Oven Doors 

Baking Always in Sight. 
No Stooping or Lifting 

Oven Just the Right Height. 
Sanitary — Economical — Convenient-^Beautiful 

A-B STOVE COMPANY, BATTLE CREEK, MICH. 




AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 





NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 




A-B Gas Ranges 

Designed and built in Accordance with the most ad- 
vanced ideas on sanitary and efficient 
cooking equipment 




No. 38-^. A-B Range 




The Finest Gas, Range in the World 
Beautiful and Durable Finish. Efficient in Con- 
struction. Convenient in the Arrangement of Oyens. 
All Enamel Finish. No Stove Blacking Required. 

A-B STOVE COMPANY, BATTLE CREEK, MICH. 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 





NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 

A-B GAS RANGES 

Please Particular Women 





No. 33-B. A-B Range 

The winning White tile finish of this A-B is the 
crowning feature of a good cooking range. 

The large top cooking surface, large shelf and oven, 
make this one of our most popular patterns. 



SANITARY— ECONOMICAL— 
CONVENIENT— A TTRA CTIVE 




A-B STOVE COMPANY, Battle Creek, Mich. 



.45 EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 






NOT HOW CHEAP— BUT HOW GOOD 



The A-B is the World^s 
Most Sanitary and 
Economical Gas Range 



No two words in the English language im- 
press the housewife more than Sanitation and 
Economy and these two words are ever ring- 
ing in the ears of the makers of this famous 
Gas Range. 

The A-B has more exclusive sanitary fea-' 
tures than any other gas *tove. 

For economy of gas: consumption the A-B 
has no equal. Its graceful, pretty lines add 
beauty to- the home. 

Forty patterns to choose from and we in- 
vite an inspection, which will be conclusive 
proof of their superior rnerit. 

A-B gas ranges are made in the largest and 
most modem factory in the United States de- 
voted exclusively to the manufacture of gas 
ranges. 

The wonderful growth and success has been 
achieved by original improvements in Gas 
Range construction, design and finish. 



AS EASY TO CLEAN AS A CHINA PLATE 







A-B Gas Ranges 



The stoves shown and described on the dif- 
ferent pages of this book are the highest grade 
line of gas ranges ever made. 

Only the very best materials are used in the 
construction and all the mechanical details 
were worked out by practical men who have 
had years of experience in gaL stove manu- 
facture. 

Great attention has^Deen given to make the 
ranges SANITARY an^ EASY TO CLEAN. 

No stove blacking is used. Every part is 
either black or white ; enameled or nickel 
plated. 

The whole range can be cleaned with a 
damp clothand kee^ngA^|cIean will add years 
to the use and life sf thefange. 

The arrangenteni: of the ovens is perfect 
and the forty- "STfferent styles in the line give 
you just the size;^'cRd~^||yrIe you want. 

The glass oven ^gpr is a great help in 
baking and the aluminum broiler pans and 
white enamel dirt trays and canopy linings 
make 

THE A-B GAS RANGES 
THE GREAT SANITARY LINE. 





