Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dawnofhealthageOOmooruoft 



THE DAWN of' THE HEALTH AGE 



" Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields ; for they 
are white already to harvest." 






THE DAWN OF THE 
HEALTH AGE 



BY 



BENJAMIN MOORE 

M.A., D.Sc, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. 




LONDON 

J. & A. CHURCHILL 

7 GT. MARLBOROUGH ST. 



LIVERPOOL 

THE LIVERPOOL BOOKSELLERS' 

CO. LTD. 

70 LORD STREET 



1911 



Printed by Ballanttne, Hanson &* Co. 
At the Ballantyne Press, Edinburgh 



PREFACE 

This book is intended to demonstrate, on clear, 
broad lines, the necessity for entirely remodel- 
ling the present system of medical service in 
the interests of the whole community. 

It shows that hundreds of thousands of lives 
and millions of money can be saved every year 
if disease is attacked on scientific principles, 
instead of being dallied with as at present. 

It proves that such a course is best both for 
the millionaire and the pauper, because there is 
but one set of disease agents in the whole world, 
which attack rich and poor alike, and are trans- 
mitted from the one to the other. 

There is not one word of party politics in the 
book from cover to cover, and readers and re- 
viewers are requested to attach no labels to it, 
but to judge it honestly on its own merits. 

In the interests of our common humanity, 
and to aid in the evolution of a fitter and 
healthier race, it is addressed equally to con- 
servative and liberal, to humanitarian and 
economist, to capitalist and labourist, to indi- 
vidualist and socialist. 

All the great political parties in our State are 



vi PREFACE 

committed by public utterances of their leaders, 
and by the tide of public opinion, to social 
reform, and the hygienic aspect of social reform 
is the most dominant of all, commanding the 
whole situation. 

Poverty and destitution simply cannot exist 
amongst a fit, virile, healthy nation. Banish 
acute and chronic infectious diseases, teach 
temperate and normal habits of eating, drink- 
ing, and living, making the reverse a crime, and 
poverty and suffering in corresponding measure 
must decrease. 

The passion for drugging and doctoring the 
individual with specific cures and quack nostrums 
is one of the prepotent curses of our time ; 
while the health and well-being of the species, 
and all things making for fitness of the race, 
are neglected. 

We allow diseases to invade and enfeeble us, 
then ruin our systems with drugs in attempting 
to exorcise the demon of disease, and when we 
fail we turn to the claptrap of faith-healing or 
homoeopathy, imbued with all the spirit of the 
superstition and idolatry of the Middle Ages. 

Take up any daily paper or monthly maga- 
zine and look at the columns and pages of 
costly advertisements devoted to quack medi- 
cines and remedies of all kinds, reflect on the 
thousands of pounds spent by poor human gulls 
in supporting these frauds and the authors of 
them, and then ask yourself, is it not nearly 
time that we had some rational system of dealing 



PREFACE vii 

with disease and protecting people from their 
own ignorance ? 

It is only a strong public feeling, demanding 
a rationally constituted public medical service 
armed with powers to fight disease, which can 
bring reform in these matters. 



BENJAMIN MOORE. 



Shrewsbury Koad, 

Birkenhead, Oct. 1910. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

PAGE 
How WE TINKER WITH DISEASE INSTEAD OF STOP- 
PING IT 1 

CHAPTER II 

Tqp Follies of our present Public Health 

Service 20 

CHAPTER III 

The Doctor and his Patient in Private Practice 

AND IN State Practice 37 

CHAPTER IV 
Our Hospital Systems : Their Evils and Abuses . 67 

CHAPTER V 
The Warfare with the Great White Plague . 114 

CHAPTER VI 
The Evolution of the National Medical Service 178 



ix 



THE DAWN OF THE 
HEALTH AGE 

CHAPTER I 

HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE INSTEAD 
OF STOPPING IT 

At the present moment we possess sufficient 
knowledge of medical science to enable us to 
save at least three hundred thousand lives every 
year in this country alone, and the saving of these 
three hundred thousand valuable lives could all 
be effected without costing the nation a single 
penny, but rather at the same time many million 
pounds a year might be saved which under pre- 
sent conditions are absolutely wasted. 

In the face of all this spendthrift extrava- 
gance in lives and money, we eagerly call for 
more scientific research to enable us to cope 
with disease, utterly ignoring the rich harvest 
which medical science has already yielded ready 
to be garnered all around us. 

It is true that we are still ignorant of the 
causes and modes of propagation of certain 
diseases, and attempts to discover these are in 

A 



2 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

themselves most laudable ; but it is equally 
true, and much more important, that we do 
know perfectly well how to combat some of the , 
direst and most common diseases, and that we 
move neither hand nor foot to do so, but stand 
benumbed and useless, as if we were a race of 
savages without any polity or system of govern- 
ment or capacity for any concerted plan of 
action for the national welfare. 

The problems of disease, from which radi- 
cally spring all the most important problems 
of social reform, require now to be tackled by 
statesmen, and not by doctors and scientists. 

The exponents of medical science have 
accomplished their aims in many important 
directions and have laid their results before the 
public ; they can proceed no further without 
concerted statesmanlike action, and it is for 
the public now to awaken statesmen into 
activity. 

While a statesman can to a certain extent 
give definiteness and objective to reform, he 
alone cannot move unless the public are ready 
for the forward movement. 

There are signs present even now of awaken- 
ing interest of the public in health problems, as 
shown by the general approval of foreshadowed 
legislation dealing with some of the great 
problems of social reform, commencing with 
invalidity insurance and reform of the Poor 
Law, especially on the medical aspect which 
furnishes the key to the whole situation. 



HOW WE TINKEE WITH DISEASE 3 

It is method more than money that we want 
in order to combat and conquer in our battles 
with disease; we must fight in the future by 
means of a disciplined army instead of, as 
at present, with an undisciplined mob, each 
member doing what is right in his own eyes 
and working at cross purposes to his neighbour. 

It is not the slightest exaggeration to say 
that our present methods of attacking disease 
are mediaeval in their antiquity and their 
ignorance. 

The scheme which is here to be laid down is 
most benevolent and most charitable, both to 
those now afflicted with disease and those of all 
ranks of society which it proposes to save from 
the clutches of disease and untimely death ; but 
attention is asked for it not primarily on bene- 
volent or charitable grounds, but mainly as an 
economic scheme that will save millions of 
pounds annually to the nation. 

All misdirected labour is labour wasted, and the 
labour of the thirty-two thousand medical men 
at present practising in this country is almost 
wasted as far as the health of the community 
which they serve is concerned. Anything more 
futile, less scientific, more hopelessly absurd 
than the present method of dealing with disease 
can scarcely be conceived. Constant associa- 
tion has blinded us to this topsy-turvy want 
of all system and all method in tackling dis- 
ease problems which has slumbered on in our 
midst from generation to generation in despite 



4 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

of all our advance in knowledge of medical 
science. 

With a self-satisfied air we make survey of 
what we term the modern advances in medicine 
and surgery, as applied to tinkering the diseased 
individual, diXidi complacently the credulous public 
swallows the glorification, while we slumber over 
the thousand-fold greater achievements possible 
to organised efi'ort in the wholesale eradication 
of disease from the commonwealth. Meanwhile 
hundreds of thousands of the fittest of our citi- 
zens die yearly without one effort being made 
to save them. 

Naturally our organised army of doctors 
would have to be paid, and this would cost the 
nation eight to ten millions a year; but this 
money is all paid now, and more than paid. 
All that is necessary is to pay it through 
different channels, and the advantage gained 
is that we shall possess, as aforesaid, an army 
instead of a mob. 

Needless to say, no disrespect is meant to the 
medical profession by designating it as a mob. 
That term is only intended to signify that it is 
entirely lacking in the first elements of organisa- 
tion so far as dealing with the diseases of the 
nation is concerned, and preserving the nation in 
a fit state of health. 

There is no more noble profession than that 
of medicine ; it is one which is only too sacri- 
ficing of its own interests ; there is no pro- 
fession which does so much for charity without 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 5 

recompense sought or obtained. Charitable work 
is the bane and curse of the medical profession, 
as it is of the nation at large, and the constant 
exploitation of doctors by hospitals and Poor 
Law municipal agencies is a disgrace to our 
times. 

But speaking of the medical profession as a 
whole, it is developed upon wrong and anti- 
quated lines of tinkering the individual for 
fees after he has fallen into ill-health, and it is 
impossible for it from within to organise itself 
into an army of health and public safety against 
disease, which shall seek disease at its source 
and commence to deal with this large problem 
of eradication in a modern and scientific way. 

Even if it set about reorganising itself on new 
lines, the profession lacks those effective com- 
pulsory powers of dealing with disease which 
will be elaborated in subsequent chapters, and 
these only can be given to it by legislation. 

The problem of saving these hundreds of 
thousands of lives and millions of pounds 
of money annually is accordingly one for the 
public itself, led by those publicists who take 
an interest in medico-social problems. 

It cannot be too strongly reiterated in this 
introductory chapter that what is required for 
the successful solution of this gigantic problem 
is method, method, and once again method. 
In the first place, we must form our highly 
organised and equipped Army of Health ; and, 
in the second place, we must give that ai'my 



6 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

plenary powers by legislation to deal with 
disease on the lines which scientific research 
has disclosed for us in the past generation. 

This plenary power to fight disease will not 
in the slightest degree prejudice the rights of 
the individual sufferer from disease, but, on the 
contrary, will give him double the chance of 
recovery, while at the same time it will protect 
the healthy from the danger of infection. 

Under the new regime, medical treatment will 
be as free to every one as is the school and 
education to-day, and every one must accept 
medical treatment in his own interest and that 
of the community, just as he must to-day accept 
education for his child, whether he wants to 
or not. 

After ten years of such a system, nine-tenths 
of the disease and almost an equal proportion of 
the destitution will be found no longer amidst 
our population, and the benefit will be felt not 
only amongst the working classes, but from 
palace to hovel — if indeed hovels still exist. 

The Briton, in the opinion of some superficial 
critics, will become a slave under such com- 
pulsory conditions when his home — his castle 
of dirt, ignorance, and disease — is visited by the 
health officer, and so he is advised to fight 
to the last gasp against such inspection. But 
there is, fortunately, also a clean Briton, an edu- 
cated Briton, a hard-working Briton ; he exists 
already by the hundred thousand amongst the 
working classes, and he is rapidly becoming 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 7 

a power in the land. This type of Briton is 
acquiring new and strange ideas of liberty ; 
strange to say, he believes in education, and has 
no objection to his indolent and ignorant neigh- 
bour being punished for neglecting to send his 
children to school. The school officer is not to 
his mind a tool of the Holy Inquisition ; and, 
similarly, he has only to realise that he and 
his wife and children stand in danger, in real 
mortal danger, of being infected and destroyed 
by the disease harboured by the filth and igno- 
rance next door, in order to let the health 
officer attack and remove that filth and dis- 
ease. When thoroughly awakened by the new 
preachers of health, the virile, healthy type of 
Briton may be depended upon to be so anxious 
for the health of body of himself and those 
near and dear to him that no power on earth 
will long prevent the necessary legislation, and 
reform will come with the ever-growing velo- 
city of an avalanche. Our new health army 
may be an inquisition, but what an inquisition 
it is — one of knowledge against ignorance, of 
health against disease, of life against death, of 
salvation against damnation. 

Who would not welcome such an inquisition ? 
"^f this be slavery, let us welcome our chains, 
and be bondsmen in a cause such as the world 
has never seen. Here is a crusade worth join- 
ing, a fight worth waging, a fight that can be 
won — nay, a fight that must be won. 

For more rapid success we must, however, 



8 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

win to our cause the cautious and stolid econo- 
mist, and so, in concluding this introduction, let 
us show what vast stores of gold, which being 
transmuted means energy and work done, can 
be saved and accumulated every year through 
the operations of this Army of Health ; let us 
point out the spoils of this bloodless warfare. 

It has been stated above that we already pay 
for the health army, but not in such a manner 
that we can either organise it or set it to fight. 
These payments that we already make, and 
which collectively give the doctors their none 
too magnificent livings, are now so exacted in 
fees, varying according to our incomes, the rich 
man paying a bigger and the poor man a smaller 
fee, that there would be but little variation if 
the sum were raised by taxation ; and so this 
taxation would mean no additional drain on 
the nation, for we would not then have to pay 
the doctors their fees privately and directly, 
but would have full and free treatment when 
we needed it. Of course, disease would in a 
few years become so abated that the treatment 
aspect would be at a minimum ; we should, 
fortunately for us, rarely need treatment, and 
nearly all the work would be work of inspec- 
tion, instruction on how to live healthily, and 
prevention of the incidence of disease by pounc- 
ing on every infectious case and isolating it at 
once. Still, as far as disease did still exist, the 
State Health Army doctor would attend to it. 
Accordingly, apart from some initial expense 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 9 

for hospitals and sanatoria — necessary until the 
army of consumptives, for example, had been 
reduced from its present figure of about one 
hundred and fifty thousand of unfortunate 
sufferers travelling to a certain death, to less, 
say, than five hundred throughout the whole 
country — apart from this initial expense, no 
fresh money is required for the scheme, but 
only a new organisation, and a payment of our 
doctors' fees as a tax to Government, instead 
of directly to the private doctor. 

Now, let us look at the other side of the 
balance-sheet, and leaving out all question of 
lives saved and the happiness that accompanies 
better health, let us pay attention to pounds 
sterling alone. 

The magnitude of the Annual Disease Bud- 
get which ill-health, consequent loss of em- 
ployment, destitution of widows and children 
consequent upon illness, and later the death 
of fathers from preventable disease, costs the 
nation is undoubtedly colossal, but difficult of 
accurate estimation. It can be stated with 
considerable probability to be located somewhere 
about one hundred million pounds annually. 
This is a truly colossal sum ; one poor half-year 
of it, if it could be raised in any way and applied 
to clear away the causes of disease, would be 
more than sufficient to stop the whole hideous 
panorama of disease and destitution ; but, alas ! 
we are in the grip of a vicious circle. 

One has only to spend a few minutes in 



10 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

reflecting upon how disease does its work of 
destruction, to see how the millions mount up. 

If we take that biggest scourge of all diseases, 
viz. tuberculosis, as an example, we have in 
Great Britain and Ireland about 150,000 affected 
individuals at one time. We may take it that 
the disease runs an average course of two years 
before the curtain is drawn, and as it is a 
disease occurring at all ages, it is probable that 
of the 150,000 sufferers, two-thirds, or 100,000, 
are adults capable of employment. As a result 
of the disease, not only the sufferers, but their 
families and dependents if they have any, are 
thrown on the support of others. All the time, 
it must be remembered, these 150,000 are in- 
fecting others, while we do nothing to prevent 
the process, so that the horrible tale is made 
perpetual, and the economic loss goes on year 
after year. Since consumption is considerably 
commoner nowadays amongst men than amongst 
women, we may take it that of the 150,000 of 
the army of tuberculosis at least 60,000 are 
adult males ; and if these be taken at the 
low average wage of one pound sterling a 
week, the annual loss of wages alone is a sum 
of £3,000,000, to which we may certainly add 
another £1,000,000 for lost female labour, 
making £4,000,000 for wages alone. Of the 
150,000 sufferers, about 75,000 die every year, 
and the melancholy item of funeral expenses 
must cost a sum worth saving. At least one- 
third of these poor unfortunates die in Poor Law 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 11 

or other public institutions ; ^ but wherever they 
die, the expense falls ultimately on the nation, 
for any expense broadly enough distributed 
amongst some hundreds of thousands of people 
becomes indistinguishable from a national ex- 
pense. Each individual upon whom it falls, sink- 
ing down, pulls upon others all around him to help 
him in his calamity, and ultimately the burden 
of phthisis, just as it is propagated and carried 
to us all, rich or poor, by the same common 
microbe, falls to be borne as to its finance in 
the same common way by the whole community. 
In nine-tenths of the cases, sooner or later it 
comes on the rates, just as do insanity, alco- 
holism, and all other forms of long-continued 
or chronic disease. 

But the actual wages lost in the period of 
illness of the phthisical patient, considerable 
as we have just seen it to be, is insignificant 
compared to the burden of destitution left as its 
aftermath, first upon the family survivors and 
later on the community. 

The widows and orphans fall nearly always to 
the State or community to maintain, and, alas ! 
history will have a sad tale to tell as to how 
we have, up till now, been looking after these 

^ The cost of tubercular patients to the Poor Law Institutions 
is at least one and a half millions a year ; those belonging to 
Friendly Societies and in Sick Benefit cost their Societies over 
one million a year ; and Voluntary Charities and Sanatoria for 
the Consumptive cost almost half a million. In addition we 
have over 100,000 cripples with decreased earning powers, and 
about eighty per cent, of these owe their lameness to tubercular 
disease. 



12 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

unfortunate orphans and turning them into un- 
desirables in the General Mixed Workhouses, or 
in immoral and dissolute homes.^ 

We are, however, just now dealing with 
economics, and so may attempt to get at some 
idea of how much the widows and orphans of 
deceased phthisical fathers cost the nation. 
The estimate is most difficult. In some cases 
the adult dying from phthisis happily leaves no 
children behind ; in other cases three or four 
are left to be brought up by the parish for 
periods varying from ten years downwards ; but 
if it be taken that it averages out at one child 
to be maintained, schooled, clothed, and fed for 
ten years, this, at a cost of only four shillings a 
week, works out at £10 a year, or £100 for the 
ten years. If we take the modest estimate that 
there are 30,000 deaths a year in the United 
Kingdom necessitating such provision, the sum 
of £3,000,000 a year is obtained. If we add 
this orphans' maintenance to wages loss, we 
have a sum of at least seven million pounds. 

We have as yet by no means exhausted the 
financial drain on the nation due to tuberculosis, 
for economically this is the most expensive of 
all diseases upon the community. This arises 
from the fact that, on account of its modes of 
propagation, pulmonary phthisis takes oif most 
of its victims between the ages of twenty-five 
and forty-five years, just when economically they 
are of the highest value to the community, in the 

^ See Reports of Royal Commission on Poor Law. 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 13 

midst of their best working and wage-earning 
power. 

Not only do we lose the wages of each 
phthisical workman during the later part of 
his period of illness, when, on an average, as 
statistics show, he takes more than a full year's 
sick benefit out of his society ; and not only 
have we to support in our poorhouses his orphan 
children after he has gone ; in addition, the 
community as a whole suffers from the loss of 
many years of the services and work done by 
the workman which would have accrued had 
consumption not cut him off in his prime. The 
average age has been shown to be only forty 
years at which phthisical workmen are removed, 
whereas in the absence of phthisis, and with 
their expectations of life at the age at which 
phthisis fell upon them, they would have lived 
and worked on the average to fifty-five years. 
It follows that while we only gain economically 
by the death to the extent of the food, cloth- 
ing, and other wants actually consumed by the 
workman himself, and spared by his death, we 
lose economically the fifteen years' labour, re- 
presented by fifteen years' wages, which the 
workman would have turned out had phthisis 
not seized him. On an average this loss may 
be set down at least at £20 a year — probably it 
would be more — and this multiplied by fifteen, 
for the fifteen years, gives the national value of 
each of these workmen cut off at forty, instead 
of fifty-five, at £300. K, on this basis, we take 



14 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

it that of the 75,000 deaths annually in the 
United Kingdom from tuberculosis only 30,000 
are adult workmen — although 40,000 would 
probably be nearer the mark — we obtain an- 
other nine million pounds lost every year to the 
nation. This added to the other two items 
makes up sixteen million pounds a year lost 
by tuberculosis ; and there are many other 
sources of loss, in lameness, in recoveries after 
long illness and inability in cases which do 
not die, in tuberculous animals slaughtered, 
in necessary inspection, and so on, which need 
not here be enumerated and calculated out. 

Another method of getting at the total loss 
is that tuberculosis, as has been calculated by 
actuaries, reduces the expectation of life of 
every inhabitant of the country by two and a 
half years, when the diminution of life duration 
is distributed all round. Now, taking man, 
woman, and child, the average income of the 
wage-earning classes is about £23 a year per 
individual, and in our total 44 to 45 millions 
of population there are about 38 millions 
consisting of wage-earners. Multiplying 38 
millions by 23 and again by 2^, we obtain 
2185 million pounds as the wages earned; and 
if we take about two -thirds of this as the sum 
necessary to adequately support the 38 millions 
for the two and a half years, we obtain at least 
700 million pounds as the capital value to 
the nation of total eradication of consumption, 
which, at 3 per cent, interest, means an annual 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 15 

saving of 21 million pounds. This eradication, 
as we shall see, can be guaranteed for an ex- 
penditure of less than ten million pounds a 
year, for ten years, further expenditure almost 
stopping at the end of that period. 

A calculation by Dr. Hermann Bigg,^ Medical 
Officer of Health of New York City, made in 
1903, estimates the annual loss to that city 
due to tuberculosis at 23,000,000 dollars, or 
£4,600,000, a year. The estimated total annual 
number of deaths in the whole United States is 
150,000 people, representing an annual financial 
loss, calculated on the same basis as for New 
York City, of 330,000,000 dollars, or £66,000,000. 
On the same basis, the 75,000 deaths from all 
forms of tuberculosis in the United Kingdom 
in 1908, the last year for which we have figures, 
would cost exactly half the bill of the United 
States, or £33,000,000. 

Another enormous national bill which would 
be almost entirely wiped away by a National 
Health Army is that which might be grimly 
described as the bill for the slaughter of the 
innocents. 

One person out of every five persons bom 
dies before the fifth birthday is reached, and 
under proper conditions of sanitation and 
healthy living at least eighty per cent, of these 
deaths could be avoided. Latin names figure 
in the returns of the Registrar-General as the 

* Quoted from Latham and Garland, " Conquest of Consump- 
ion" (Fisher Unwiu, 1910), p. 121. 



16 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

cause of death, but in plain English the 
children die from dirt, ignorance, carelessness, 
and starvation. Also, sad to relate, there has 
not been the slightest improvement in this 
respect within the past forty years. Neither 
is it possible to hug the fond delusion that 
these are weak, enfeebled children, to preserve 
whom would deteriorate and enfeeble the race. 
These children who die are born healthy, 
and placed in similar circumstances any other 
children would succumb just as fast as these. 
The diseases of infancy fall upon the fit and 
the unfit ; and epidemic diarrhoea, or bronchitis 
caused by neglect after measles, kill the fit just 
as much as the unfit. Just as in the case 
of the adults, infection with tubercle bacilli 
kills the fittest as well as the feeblest. The 
healthy have not been seized by tuberculosis 
because they have not been sufificiently exposed 
to infection, and the infection of tuberculosis 
comes up from the slums and slum-life, where 
it is cultivated and propagated by our present 
system of neglect. 

Filth and filth infection causes nine-tenths 
of the preventable deaths occurring before the 
age of sixty-five, and if we join in this crusade 
for a National Health Army to help the poor, 
we help ourselves at the same time. 

Time was when that filth disease, smallpox, 
claimed in the palace as its victim a French 
king, and at another the consort of a British 
monarch; as it was then with smallpox so is 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 17 

it now with phthisis, and it is our duty to 
see that as it now is with smallpox so shall 
it be within the next ten years with phthisis. 

So much for the doctrine of survival of the 
unfittest as a result of the stamping out of 
disease in general, and infantile slaughter in 
particular ; let us now look at the economic 
eifect of allowing a state of affairs to persist 
under which one life in five is destroyed before 
five years of life have run. 

In the first place, there is the cost of pro- 
duction of these children, the drain on the 
mother's strength and energy, the extra food, 
the nursing, the doctors' bills, and all wasted in 
sorrow and bitterness of heart. But of more 
importance to the nation is the wrongful age 
distribution caused by this infant slaughter as 
between workers and non-workers of the com- 
munity. This inordinate infantile death-rate, 
about ten times as great as the rest of the 
population, leaves us with a much dispropor- 
tionate number of non-earning children to be 
supported by the workers. Just at the period 
hardest for family maintenance, on account of 
this enormous death-rate, there are too many 
small mouths to fill, and too few growing up to 
earning ages to help the toil-worn father with 
his task of keeping a home together. 

A certain order of social economist talks of 
the necessity of keeping up the birth-rate, but 
as long as present social conditions persist this 
is but adding fuel to a consuming fire. 

B 



18 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

We could have a happier, healthier, and 
wealthier people of equal population with little 
more than half the present birth-rate, if we 
looked after the death-rate with an efficient 
National Health Army. 

Let us look after the death-rate and the 
birth-rate will take care of itself. There are 
even now nearly twice as many births as deaths 
in our country, and the wonder is where to 
find, at any rate under present social condi- 
tions, employment and maintenance for our 
ever-increasing population. 

Improve social conditions by attending to 
health, and all this vicious circle of over-pro- 
duction and slaughtering of children will dis- 
appear automatically by the operation of a 
fundamental biological law ; the natural law 
will assert itself that as you improve the con- 
dition of the people they will reproduce less 
rapidly, but we shall get a more virile race, with 
a less proportion of children to adults. Birth- 
rate and death-rate will both go down together, 
which is the best economic and social result 
which could possibly exist. 

Meanwhile the slaughter of the children goes 
on unchecked, and as a strange result, most 
paradoxical but most true, we have to maintain 
at least one-third more children between the 
age of infancy and ^ye years than we ought 
to have ; these luckless infants have to be 
maintained by the productive work of the 
nation, and the cost estimated in money is 



HOW WE TINKER WITH DISEASE 19 

certainly not less than £1,000,000 sterling 
every year. 

At least 100,000 children lose their lives 
every year from preventable causes, which we 
do nothing to make impossible. Did we ask 
the fond mothers of some of these lost children 
their value, we might be told they were *' worth 
their weight in gold " ; but if, on the economic 
basis of what they have cost, and leaving out 
of account their future productive value to the 
nation, we set them down as equivalent to £10 
each, we obtain the sum of £1,000,000 a year. 

These two instances of tuberculosis and in- 
fantile mortality have been selected to show 
what disease costs in money every year ; dozens 
of other diseases, less heavy in their incidence 
but mounting up in their totality, might be 
put forward along similar lines. The two that 
have been quoted, together cost us more than 
double the price of an eifective national service 
for their prevention ; and hence, provided it can 
be shown that prevention would be effectual, 
a clear case has been made out on the basis 
of economics alone for taking action in this 
matter. 



CHAPTER II 

THE FOLLIES OF OUR PRESENT PUBLIC 
HEALTH SERVICE 

The reader of the previous chapter has pro- 
bably come to the conclusion that the object 
of the writer is to convert all, or the great 
majority of, medical men into medical officers of 
health on the system now in vogue on a smaller 
scale under our municipalities and county 
authorities. To this the reply of the writer is, 
"Heaven forbid;" his object is the prevention 
of disease, and any system less likely to achieve 
this object than our present wretched Public 
Health System, or rather lack of all system, 
he cannot well imagine. Such a system of 
how-not-to-do-it far surpasses the Circumlocu- 
tion Office in its wild and ludicrous absurdity. 

No attack whatever is intended upon the 
personnel of the Medical Officers of Health 
of the Country, but a new National Medical 
Service must be formed, and the present hetero- 
geneous collection of absurdity and impotence 
removed, if any true progress is to be made in 
safeguarding the National Health. 

The difficulty is to know where to make 
a start in attacking this colossal Castle of 

20 



FOLLIES OF PRESENT SEEVICE 21 

Humbug that we call our Public Health Service. 
Let us commence with a particular example. 

Quite in recent times, a Corporation of over 
300,000 citizens required what is called an 
M.O.H., that is to say, a Medical Officer of 
Health. They wanted, it will be noted, one 
medical officer of health to prevent disease 
ravaging these 300,000 people, a task which, 
if undertaken with any approach to seriousness, 
would require at least 150 to 200 medical men. 
But in this, strange to say, they were in nowise 
peculiar, for that is the custom all over the 
country, so let us pass over this ludicrous 
aspect as too common to excite our risible 
faculties. The next point is that the Corpora- 
tion in question offered the magnificent salary 
of £600 for this Medical Officer ; for, of course, 
he would have a good deal to do in preserving 
the health of 300,000 people. Now, in spite of 
the arduous duties, the Corporation might have 
had the services of men well trained in exactly 
the type of work required ; they might have 
picked and chosen from amongst many men 
who had for years executed such duties in other 
large Corporations ; but the Corporation, acting 
through its City Council, thought it might be 
better to have a local man with some knowledge 
perhaps of the individual constitutions peculiar 
to the 300,000 odd people who inhabited this 
city, so they chose a worthy gentleman who, 
in addition to being up till then a private 
general medical practitioner, had recently been 



22 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

a City Father, or, in other words, a City Coun- 
cillor. 

The City Councillors knew him well, and 
knew they could work harmoniously with him, 
and he with them ; besides, his predecessor had 
likewise been chosen from the ranks of the 
City Fathers, with eminent success. 

The result has clearly demonstrated the wis- 
dom of the choice ; the health of that city is 
excellent — it is by no means the highest in its 
death-rate amongst our great cities, and there 
has been no observable increase in death-rate 
during the few years that have elapsed since 
the appointment. 

What is the moral ? 

The moral might be that no prolonged ex- 
perience as Medical Officer of Health is neces- 
sary in appointing to such an important post, 
provided you can obtain a man who has ac- 
quired experience and tact by service on the 
City Council; but it might also be that the 
experience and ability of the Medical Officer 
of Health matter very little under present 
conditions as far as the Health of the City is 
concerned. 

There is both humour and pathos in this 
plain true tale ; the humour is that it did not 
matter, the pathos that it should not matter. 

Yet the position of Medical Officer of Health 
of a large city is no sinecure ; his duties are 
most multifarious, and although a great many 
are carried out by deputies, the situation re- 



FOLLIES OF PRESENT SERVICE 23 

quires great tact and la good deal of knowledge 
for successful treatment. 

But, as a matter of fact, by far the greater 
part of the work requires little or no medical 
knowledge, and could be done as well by an 
astute solicitor's clerk as by a medical man. 

As far as his official duties at present are 
concerned, the Medical Officer of Health simply 
is an administrator of an ill-assorted collection 
of Laws, some good and others bad and in- 
complete, supposed to be all that is necessary 
for the due maintenance of Public Health and 
prevention of disease. Meanwhile, if we may 
personify Disease, we can truly say that it 
laughs and jeers at us and our Public Health 
Acts and Medical Officers of Health and their 
Sanitary Inspectors, not merely in our slums, 
but in all our public places, and carries oif to 
premature deaths every year at least 300,000 
persons, whom an organised State Public 
Health Service could preserve as sound and 
healthy lives. 

It is true that there are, here and there, 
Medical Officers of Health who exceed their 
Commission, because they are keen on their 
work and introduce reforms as far as they 
can get backing from their local authorities ; 
but it is not in the Bill, and voluntary effort 
can do little or nothing towards tackling the 
larger problems of disease prevention. 

The fundamental condition of reform is that 
the whole aspect and outlook of (1) Govern- 



24 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

ment, (2) Public, (3) Private Medical Practi- 
tioner, and (4) Public Health Officer must be 
radically and completely changed. 

We do not require an extension and amplifi- 
cation of the present systems or any branches 
of them, but a new system, including in organic 
co-ordination the Private Practitioners ; the 
Hospitals, Voluntary and Poor Law, and their 
Staffs ; the Infectious Diseases and Municipal 
Hospitals and their Staffs ; the Dispensaries, 
Public and Provident ; the District Medical Offi- 
cers and Eelieving Officers ; and the present 
so-called Public Health Service. 

We require a Cosmos evolved out of this 
Chaos. 

Order cannot be evolved out of chaos until 
this heterogeneous mass of machinery is set in 
gear, and driven by one motive-power managed 
by one overseeing intelligence. 

Till this has been achieved, waste of money 
and human energy, and impotence to handle 
and prevent disease, must coexist side by side, 
as every sociologist who has studied the subject 
admits they do at the present moment. 

The National Medical Service, to be at all co- 
ordinated and effective, must be truly National, 
and not merely a congeries of Municipal Ser- 
vices out of touch with one another. There 
must be provision at each local centre for the 
direction of local affairs, and every particle 
of useful voluntary service on City Councils 
and Hospitals can be, and ought to be, utilised 



FOLLIES OF PEESENT SEEVICE 25 

as at present, or, rather, much more than at 
present ; but the medical men must be part of 
a service as truly National in its scope as any 
of our present great civil or military National 
Services. 

A young medical officer entering this service 
should have the opportunity of seeing service 
in all parts of the country, and being called 
by a local authority from any one part to any 
other ; and after the Service has once been 
established there must be no irregular admis- 
sions. The National Medical Service should 
be made one of the finest in the country, for 
none in the country would be more fundamental 
or essential, and the honours and emoluments 
should be such as to attract the finest brain- 
power of the youth of the nation. 

The main objects of the National Medical 
Service should be twofold — (1) To give instruc- 
tion in the laws of hygiene and healthy living, 
sowing this knowledge broadcast in both school 
and workshop ; and (2) to take eff'ective steps 
to stamp out infectious diseases, armed with 
compulsory powers for this purpose. 

Nearly all disease is due either to unhealthy 
habits of life, or to infection from other in- 
dividuals pursuing unhealthy habits or living 
under unhealthy conditions. Wipe out these 
two fundamental causes, and the number of 
diseased individuals left to be ** doctored " would 
shrink to such dimensions that our hospitals 
would be well-nigh empty, and our National 



26 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

Chest correspondingly fuller of treasure for 
other good work. 

Let us look for a moment at the question 
of how these two fundamental objects of a 
national health service are carried out now by- 
all the disunited branches of the medical pro- 
fession, both private and public. 

By long odds, the more important of the two 
functions is the educative one, for if the mass of 
the people could be taught in a real practical 
way the elementary laws of healthy living and 
what made for good health and what for disease, 
there would be no delay in introducing reforms 
for prevention of infection. 

The Government that refused to take adequate 
action, once the people saw what was required, 
would soon be swept out of existence, and re- 
placed by one that would carry out reform. 

Now, what attempts are at present being made 
to give the people this education ; what is the 
medical profession doing in public health service 
or in private practice, and what is being done 
by educated laymen ? The answer is simple : 
there is no concerted action whatever, nothing 
in the way of a national effort. A few posters 
on the walls of our slums about temperance, 
and feeding babies ; notices not to spit in our 
public conveyances ; occasional and sporadic 
attempts at " Health Lectures " ; tuberculosis 
crusades with limelight views, and lectures. 
Very good, all of it, and much to be commended ; 
but as an attempt at a national effort to educate 



FOLLIES OF PRESENT SERVICE 27 

the people in the laws of health — well, one can 
only repeat some of the responses to the Litany 
over it, in great sorrow of spirit. 

Let us wake up and be truly ashamed of 
ourselves, and start to teach some practical 
hygiene in our schools as a compulsory and 
important subject. Let us teach our school 
teachers first some of the principles of how 
health is preserved, so that they know more 
about the little bodies they have to look after 
physically as well as mentally, and so do not 
treat them as disembodied minds. Let us 
start our newly appointed School Medical 
Officers as teachers as well as inspectors, and 
see if they can prevent some children falling ill, 
in addition to writing reports on those already 
afflicted. This is no sneer at work well begun, 
but rather to say let us do more of it. 

Next let us take most of our 32,000 qualified 
medical practitioners and turn them loose on 
the slums as missionaries of health, as a change 
and relaxation from pottering in vain at disease 
so far advanced as to be beyond their skill. 

It is a peculiar irony of fate that the very 
name of *' doctor" means a teacher, and yet 
he never, or very rarely, teaches nowadays, but 
earns his living chiefly by pouring medicines 
into people who would in most cases be better 
without them. 

The average poor person, as also many who 
are not poor save in intelligence, goes to the 
" doctor " for '' medicine," and the doctor panders 



28 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

to the prejudice and gives *' medicine." He can 
scarcely help himself; if he gave no '* medicine " 
he would soon have but little practice. Advice 
thrown in gratis may be good, and after all you 
need not take it if you do not want it ; but 
it is certainly the " medicine " that is going to 
make you well, that is what costs the doctor 
something, and that is what you pay your fee 
for, and expect to have. 

Yet the doctors themselves complain of 
quackery and the undoubted frauds of patent- 
medicine vending and advertising. Why, the 
people are only bettering their instruction, for 
the doctors, by their actions if not their words, 
lay such stress on the " bottle " that it becomes 
the essential thing to the patient's mind. He 
sees a well- written piece of quackery in a news- 
paper advertisement, a widely-cast net which 
includes his symptoms, and he imagines the 
others he has not got ; this represents to him 
the doctor's palaver. Is it any wonder that he 
sends for the essential thing from his point of 
view, to wdt, the " medicine " ? After all, will it 
do him much more harm, or good, than the 
rapidly thrown together "bottle" supplied at 
the dispensary of the private practitioner who 
sees forty patients in an hour at a shilling a 
head ? Truly, the medical profession has itself 
to blame for many of the evils which have come 
upon it. 

The medical profession requires sadly to have 
some dignity put back into it by being made a 



FOLLIES OF PEESENT SERVICE 29 

truly teaching profession, as the popular name 
of its exponents indicates. 

Many medicines are most valuable, and need 
not be taken in homoeopathic doses when their 
use is really indicated. There is only one 
greater medical fraud than homoeopathy, and 
that is faith-healing. But, at the same time, if 
doctors could see their way to give one-tenth 
the present amount of drugging and ten times 
the amount of teaching, it would be better both 
for the world at large and the self-respect of the 
medical profession. 

Turning to the second fundamental purpose 
of a National Medical Service, viz. the preven- 
tion of infection, how do we find that provided 
for at the present time ? Here we do find legis- 
lation existent which attempts to place the 
Medical Officer of Health in some co-ordina- 
tion with the Medical Practitioner. The best 
possible attempt, it may be, which can be made 
under present conditions ; but the most elemen- 
tary examination of its mode of operation and 
restraining effect upon the spread of disease is 
sufficient to convince any one with an open 
mind that it is but a miserable pis aller, that 
would not be tolerated for a moment did we 
possess a real National Medical Service armed 
with powers to proceed on the offensive against 
infectious diseases. 

The present mechanism is that any medical 
practitioner who has seen a case which he has 
diagnosed as an attack of one of certain types 



30 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

of infectious diseases is compelled to notify 
the same to the Public Health Authority ; 
and unless he can certify that the case can be 
properly isolated and attended at home, the 
Public Health Authority has power to remove 
it to a Public Infectious Diseases Hospital. 
Usually in the case of poor people the case is 
so removed, if there is room, at the time being, 
in the Hospital. 

To the lay mind this may sound perfectly 
all right, but there is little doubt that it costs 
lives by the ten thousand annually, and is one 
of the most puerile ways of dealing with a 
most serious problem which can well be ima- 
gined. Especially in the case of children's 
diseases does this hold good, and it is a con- 
servative estimate to say that in infectious 
diseases peculiar to childhood this nefarious 
system costs the country fifty thousand lives 
annually. 

Observe, in the first place, that here, where 
the safety of the community is at stake and 
the spread of infection is to be prevented, the 
machinery is first set in action by some ignorant 
lay person, living in all probability in a dirty 
slum, and entirely uneducated in matters of 
health and disease. 

Neither the medical practitioner nor the 
public health officer has any commission to 
go forth and find the disease, not even when 
an epidemic is on ; no — the disease must come 
to the doctor. The enemy must walk past 



FOLLIES OF PEESENT SEEVICE 31 

our outposts and into our camp, and ask to 
be attacked and arrested, before we stir hand 
or foot. Is not the whole thing too ludicrous 
for the serious consideration of any one but 
the witch-doctor or medicine-man of a savage 
tribe ? It is reminiscent of the days of burn- 
ing for witchcraft or healing by incantations 
and charms. 

If we really believe in this as a modern 
method of combating infectious disease, let us 
at least show some charity to those just a shade 
less advanced in intelligence than ourselves, 
who cultivate the pious art of faith-healing 
and swallow the miracles of Lourdes. 

The patient reports to the doctor, and the 
doctor reports to the medical officer of health, 
and the medical officer of health reports to 
the infectious diseases hospital,^ and then, 
if there is room, the ambulance is sent for 
the patient. Meanwhile, the disease germs 
have not been reporting at all, but have been 
going on with their business, and next day 
there is another case to be removed from the 
same house or the house next door, after "the 
tale of the house that Jack built " has been 
run through again. Is it any wonder that we 
have epidemics of acute infectious diseases? 

It is to be remembered that nine- tenths 
of the disease is situated in the low-class, 
closely crowded property of slum-land, where 

* ** And the parson told the sexton, and the sexton tolled the 
bell." 



32 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

the people are poor, ignorant, and perhaps 
sometimes careless of what to do, and that bad 
cases have often run a good deal of their in- 
fectious course, and had contact with a good 
many susceptible persons, before ever a doctor 
has seen them at all. The poor hard-working 
wife of the labourer, with all her family and 
housework to attend to, may be forgiven if 
she fails to understand even for two or three 
days that what she thinks is a cold or sore 
throat in one of her children is the beginning 
of a serious infectious disease, and there is no 
one going round inquiring for sick children 
in the houses, even when it is known that a 
severe epidemic is in progress. No; the free- 
born Briton must be allowed to infect his 
neighbours in peace, and undisturbed by any 
domiciliary visits of a Health Authority. He 
is not permitted to neglect the mind of his 
child, but he can practically neglect the body, 
and its care and requirements, to his heart's 
content. 

The infectious ailments of the middle and 
upper classes practically all originate in this 
way in the lower classes, and are carried up 
by casual contacts in a hundred ways : by 
contacts made on the street ; in public build- 
ings, in public conveyances ; through food and 
clothing which has been in contact in the slums, 
and so on. In nothing so much as in infectious 
disease is it really true that we are our brother's 
keeper, and that " no man liveth to himself, 



FOLLIES OF PEESENT SERVICE 33 

and no man dieth to himself"; there is but 
one set in all Nature of infective organisms, 
which produce the same results in the bodies 
of rich and poor alike, and we cannot be 
healthy as long as our poor brother in the slum 
is afflicted. Both common humanity and self- 
interest call out loudly to us to help him, and 
we have just seen how we have been doing it. 

The better-circumstanced classes suffer less 
severely from infectious disease, not because 
they are immune, but because they are brought 
less in contact with it, in the first place ; and, 
secondly, because they are better nursed and 
cared for when it falls upon them. For ex- 
ample, fatality from measles is very rare in 
middle or better class practice, but it is one of 
the most dangerous and fatal of diseases in 
slum-land, because of the want of care. By 
far the greater number of cases are never seen 
by a doctor at all ; the children are allowed to 
infect any other susceptible children about them 
in a wholesale fashion ; there is scarcely any 
attempt at isolation, proper feeding, nursing, or 
after-attention, and a doctor is only called in 
when the child is choking in bronchitis, or past 
help almost from some other sequel arising from 
the want of care. 

Is it any wonder, then, that 20,000 children 
die every year of measles alone ; nearly as many 
more of whooping cough, and twice as many 
of epidemic diarrhoea? Until we have our 
properly organised National Medical Service, 

c 



34 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

this hideous sacrifice of at least 90,000 children 
every year is going on, and bound to continue. 
When we get our service it can be stopped. 

In the second place, the present Public Health 
Service is defective and incomplete in that cer- 
tain infectious diseases, and these often most 
dangerous, are not even compulsorily notifi- 
able at all. For example, infantile or epidemic 
diarrhoea, the most dangerous disease of infants 
in the summer months, and with a frightfully 
high mortality, is not notifiable, and most of the 
poor little sufferers only reach hospital when 
they are utterly collapsed and there is absolutely 
no chance of saving them. 

More remarkable still, that disease which in 
oin- country slays double the number of any 
other, viz. tuberculosis, has until recently not 
been a notifiable disease. Even now it is per- 
missible to the Local Authority to say whether 
it is to be notifiable or not ; and even when it is 
made notifiable the whole object of notification 
is stultified by the fact that no action follows 
on notification. The Local Health Authority 
has no power to isolate without the full consent 
of the patient, who has carte blanche to go on 
infecting new sacrifices for the microbe of this 
dread disease all around him. Nor would it be 
of much value for any one Local Authority to 
attempt to deal properly with tuberculosis, if it 
was being infected by invasion from the areas of 
other Local Authorities all round, producing an 
effect like the thistle-down from the lazy man's 



FOLLIES OF PEESENT SEEVICE 35 

farm alongside falling upon the ground of the 
thrifty. This question is one for the Nation, 
not for local authorities, either Poor Law or 
Municipal or County. 

But tuberculosis, with its annual national 
tribute of seventy-five thousand lives, and the 
way it can be conquered, is worthy of a chapter 
to itself, so we shall only point it out here as 
one amongst the many diseases against which no 
effectual steps are at present being taken by 
our present Public Health Service. 

From all that has been said, it will be seen 
that we possess no Public Health Service worthy 
of the name, even we Anglo-Saxons who pos- 
sess the reputation of leading the World in 
matters of Hygiene. 

As well might we send forth the privateers 
and letters-of-marque of Queen Elizabeth's time 
to fight the modern navy of our most powerful 
rival, as go on with our present equipment for 
off'ensive action against disease, and hope or 
pray for a victory. 

All honour to the wooden walls of England 
and to the memory of the brave men who fought 
within them, but their day is over; and all 
honour to our Municipalities and medical officers 
of health, and the private donors who have 
supported our Voluntary Hospitals like the old 
privateers, and fought the good fight against 
disease in the face of long odds. But the day 
of these things is passing away. Science has 
shown us a better and more excellent way ; our 



36 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

pioneers have found out how to win the long- 
contested battle if we only possess the grit to 
organise and send forward a disciplined army. 

Let us once more lead forward the whole 
world on the glorious path to health and happi- 
ness as we have done of yore. 



CHAPTER III 

THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT IN PRIVATE 
PRACTICE AND IN STATE PRACTICE 

So far we have been concerned with medical 
science in relationship to the health and welfare 
of the community as a whole ; a subject which 
intimately concerns each separate individual, 
because, as we have seen, the health of each 
person is dependent upon the health of others 
from whom his infection with disease arises. 

It is a remarkable fact, in view of all we 
know as to causation of disease, that we have 
allowed matters so to drift on in our civilised 
communities that the first line of attack and 
defence is manned by less than ten per cent, 
of the medical profession, while over ninety 
per cent, are intermittently engaged as work 
turns up, upon what might be described as a 
guerilla warfare with disease after the enemy 
has thoroughly invaded and occupied the 
country. 

Under anything approaching a normal and 
scientific condition of affairs these proportions 
ought to be exactly reversed, and eighty to 
ninety per cent, of medical men should be or- 
ganised in a great service carrying out measures 

87 



38 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

on the offensive against disease, while the 
smaller proportion of ten to twenty per cent, 
might still be engaged in carrying out such 
work as arose from disease which had escaped 
the attention of the regular State service. Or 
the smaller proportion might bear the same 
relationship to the State service as the secon- 
dary school teacher does to the primary school 
teacher — that is to say, attend more especially 
to those who, better supplied with means, de- 
sired a separate and more exacting service from 
the main bulk of the population. 

There is little question that a national service 
must arise in the end out of the general sick- 
ness and invalidity scheme now being contem- 
plated by the Government. For when once 
conditions of medical service for the great bulk 
of the people have been simplified and placed 
on a common basis all over the country, and 
the payment for this medical service is made by 
Government out of a fund in part contributed 
by the workmen and in part by taxation, it will 
be obvious to the powerful and unified organisa- 
tion working such a scheme that both the more 
economical and the more scientific way of deal- 
ing with disease is to catch it early and stop 
it at its source. 

The scheme will, however, end in disastrous 
failure if it is allowed to drift as to its manage- 
ment into the hands of dozens of so-called 
Friendly Societies, all acting on different prin- 
ciples, and in competition with one another, 



THE DOCTOK AND HIS PATIENT 39 

instead of being kept in the hands of the 
Government. 

The scheme is at present only intended to in- 
clude workmen, but later it will inevitably be 
extended to wives and families, after which we 
may expect the National Medical Service to 
develop rapidly by a quite obvious process of 
evolution in which different branches of service 
become specialised amongst the staff of the now 
universal system of State Medical Insurance. 

At the present time, however, we have to deal 
with the fact that over eighty per cent, of the 
medical profession are engaged in practice for 
fees or payments made by the patient, and in 
this chapter the object is to examine whether 
or not this arrangement is advantageous ta 
individual and community ; whether it is an 
economical system in money and in health ; 
and, most important of all, how it is affected 
by modern social and economic conditions of 
labour. We shall see that for the bulk of the 
people its death-knell is already being rung, and 
that it is becoming so inefficient under the 
action of small local co-operative systems, clubs, 
societies, and tontines, that it is making the name 
of medical science a disgrace. It is turning 
doctors' private practices into fraudulently con- 
ducted business concerns in which the doctor 
loses all dignity and self-respect, and the patient 
is cheated of that advice and treatment which 
he imagines is being given to him, and upon 
which his very life may depend. 



40 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

Just as there is no service more valuable, and 
honourable, and vrorthy of high reward than 
that conscientiously rendered by a skilful doctor 
to his patient, so, and to the same degree, there 
is no greater dis-service, in fact, no greater 
crime, than scamped and inefficient medical 
attention, than want of care in diagnosis and 
proper treatment, or negligence in possessing 
that knowledge which the progress of medicine 
demands. 

Consider for a moment how helpless the 
patient is in the hands of the doctor, how little 
he is able to form any just estimate of his 
doctor's skill and knowledge of the matter in 
hand, how wholly reliant in pure faith upon his 
doctor, the patient must be. Strong as the 
Roman Catholic's belief in the infallibility of 
Mother Church, as represented in the father- 
confessor, must be the patient's reliance on 
Medical Science as represented by his physician. 
Knowledge of right or wrong in medicine the 
patient has none ; his only refuge is faith in his 
doctor. 

Seeing that this is so, how high ought the 
ideal of medical practice to be, and how great 
is the personal responsibility of the doctor to 
each patient he examines. His duty demands 
that his examination and care of the case shall 
be all that his ability and knowledge can make 
it. There must be no scamping of work, no 
hurrying, no superficiality. 

Now, there is, unfortunately, little question 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 41 

that in a very large share of private practice 
in this country, and much more so in many 
hospitals, these conditions do not obtain, work 
is habitually scamped, and patients defrauded of 
that which they are in many cases doing their 
poor best to pay for, and imagine that they are 
getting. 

This holds particularly amongst practice in 
the working-class districts where fees are small, 
and the share of medical work so performed is 
increasing rapidly year by year, as dispensary 
practices go on multiplying, as clubs, tontines, 
and friendly societies go on flourishing and 
growing, and as in one way or another doctors 
are cheated and scamped in their fees all over 
the country, and forced to work under condi- 
tions in which good workmanship is well-nigh 
impossible. 

This statement does not apply to all working- 
class practices; there are hundreds of doctors 
working amongst the poor who charge fair and 
reasonable fees for their work, and carry out 
their work conscientiously and well ; but there 
are also hundreds of the other type who accept 
fees for which good work is utterly impossible. 
It is this latter class who are a disgrace to the 
profession, and are not merely reducing it to a 
purely mercenary business, but are fraudulently 
imposing upon the poor dupes who are their 
patients, by taking money under false pretences. 

The working classes lend themselves to this 
chicanery by trying to obtain cheap medical 



42 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

attention by going to the sixpenny or shilling 
doctor, or by trying to screw the doctor by 
means of their club or sick benefit society. 
The doctor agrees to see them for a miserable 
pittance, and he does see them, gives them a 
bottle, and nothing more. It is a very cheap 
system and a very nasty one. 

The last thing in this world to have cheap is 
medical advice, and the sooner thj public gets 
to know it the better. If the layman will be 
a fool, let him go to a cheap tailor, or even to 
a cheap lawyer; he may live to learn to know 
better ; but never to a cheap doctor, or he may 
never discover his mistake. 

But, it may be said, the workman cannot 
afford the fees charged by a good doctor; let 
us be patient and go on with the chapter ; 
we may find some solution for his case also — 
although it is not in the voluntary club ; that 
club is only fit to kill him, not cure him. 

This system of cheap, low-class medical work 
in so-called dispensary practice, or by contract 
work for clubs, etc., is not only incapacitating 
and killing thousands of working people every 
year, it is thoroughly ruining, in character, 
moral fibre, and income, the medical profession 
itself. It is a debasing and malignant process, 
sinking deeper and spreading wider all the 
time, and although by working themselves to 
death, or by employing raw or ignorant hack 
assistants, a few men make big incomes, a much 
larger number of men are merely existing in 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 43 

great poverty, and always on the verge of 
financial disaster. 

This is well known within the profession, 
where the contract system is almost universally 
detested on account of its many vices for both 
practitioner and public ; but the public has not 
begun to realise it, and the system, on account 
of its cheapness, has caught on in the thickly 
populated manufacturing districts and towns. 

The medical man is caught in this whirlpool, 
and cannot help himself In very many districts 
the choice is between taking contract work — 
indeed, begging and toadying for it — or not 
doing enough practice to keep the wolf from 
the door. 

A large number of medical men are only able 
to curse and rail at this contract practice, and 
mistakenly think that the proposed Govern- 
mental system of sickness and invalidity in- 
surance would only be an extension of it. It 
would be worth their while to consider how it 
has come to pass that all these benefit socie- 
ties of all types, and clubs of all species, have 
come into existence, and try to see what it all 
means, and what is the way out. Continued 
vituperation of a system that not only mem- 
bers of the medical profession, but all educated 
men and sociologists who have examined it, 
admit to be bad, serves no useful purpose. It 
is already sufficiently damned ; let us examine 
how it comes to be there, what it means, and 
what is the salvation. Let us do this not only 



44 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

in our own interests, but in those of the un- 
fortunate patients who, in a different way, are 
suffering as much as the medical profession. 

The origin of these various forms of local 
amalgamation into medical benefit societies of 
all types, is the same as that which centuries ago 
formed our national clans and noble families ; 
which founded the Nations of Students in our 
mediaeval Universities; which united our ap- 
prentices into Guilds, and gave origin to our 
City Companies ; which gave the power to 
feudal chiefs, and gathered communities into 
free boroughs. In our own day, the same guid- 
ing spirit has led to combinations as diverse 
from each other in purpose as our Trades 
Unions on the one hand, and our gigantic 
commercial Trusts on the other. 

The principle, in fact, lies at the root of the 
whole of our civilisation, and is as deep-seated 
as the principle of organic evolution itself. 
Men have discovered that combination and 
unity give strength and power to carry out 
projects utterly impossible to the individual. 

Such combinations are seldom wholly good or 
wholly evil in their consequences, and whether 
on the whole they are good or evil depends 
upon their reaction upon the community or com- 
munities either employing them or affected by 
their influence. 

Some of the evils of contract medical practice 
to both contracting parties have been pointed 
out above, but there are certain compensating 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 45 

advantages which might be caused to increase 
enormously under a better and wider system, 
and all or nearly all of the disadvantages might 
be made to disappear. 

In the first place, it may be pointed out 
that for the greater part of the wage-earning 
class, including all the unskilled and a great 
share of the partially skilled labour of the 
country, the only alternative to the Sick Club 
is the workhouse and Poor Law treatment or 
the Out-patient Department of a Charity Hos- 
pital, and, as we shall see in a later chapter, 
this is worse than the club system. 

The numbers of the population involved in 
this category run into several millions — probably 
thirty-eight millions would be a conservative 
estimate — out of our total forty-five millions. 

While the head of a family can himself keep 
at work he may possibly be able to pay low fees 
to a doctor for attendance on his wife or child ; 
but when he himself is seriously ill and has to 
give up work for any length of time, only for 
his trade-union sick pay and sick-club medical 
attendance he would soon be destitute. 

Think how many families are struggling 
along with the father earning eighteen shillings 
a week, and occasionally out of work, and only 
small children still at school ; how many more 
have to subsist on less than thirty shillings a 
week all told; and how are these to make 
better provision against misfortune in the shape 
of that ill-health to which they, from their 



46 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

environment, are more exposed than any other 
class in the nation, than by the few pence sub- 
scribed weekly to the sick- club ? They cannot 
possibly do more, and those better circumstanced 
who inveigh against the thriftlessness and extra- 
vagance of the poor should first of all try to 
put themselves in their position. If there be 
added some consideration of their education and 
development, some thought of how little chance 
they have ever had of seeing what thrift and 
pinching can ultimately produce in the way 
of better conditions and increased comfort, we 
might be able to pardon some of their short- 
comings. Let us think of the sordid surround- 
ings, the hard struggle to keep above water, the 
comfortlessness of it all, and the endlessness 
of it, and we may forgive them breaking down 
on pay-day and snatching an illusory happiness 
which a day later but sinks them deeper down. 

The writer is no sentimentalist, no believer 
in charity ; he earnestly desires the worker to 
participate in his own upraising. If we cannot 
develop moral fibre and courage in these people 
we cannot help them. But let us set about 
it aright ; do not let us ask them to undertake 
impossibilities under a system which is dragging 
them down and submerging them. If the point 
of view be altered so as to obtain a better per- 
spective, it may perhaps be seen that these 
vices of the poorest are part and parcel of their 
condition, just as certainly as the symptoms 
and mental attitude of the diseased man are 



THE DOCTOK AND HIS PATIENT 47 

part of his disease. Get the system of living 
improved, and the individual will improve with 
it ; he may never be an angel, but he may be 
less of a devil if he be less tormented. 

Biology teaches us that there are two funda- 
mental things in all life, the organism and its 
past and present environment; the two react 
on each other, and probably the environment 
has more power in changing the organism than 
the organism has in altering the environment, 
but both can and do react. Now, in regard to 
the man in the slum, we men higher up out 
of the slum have been expecting the slum man 
{i.e. the organism) to do all the altering, and 
have not been paying enough attention to alter- 
ing the environment. We have had all our 
eyes on the human being, preaching to him of 
better things and trying to alter him, and when 
we have failed we have usually cursed him as 
a thing too vile to live, and left it at that. 
When we have touched the environment at all, 
we have done it usually by charity in all its 
many useless forms, and of these the present 
Poor Law is the worst. It is just about time we 
set about considering in a really philosophical 
way, as a scientific people attacking a scientific 
problem, how to improve the creature's environ- 
ment and give him a better system of things 
to work in. Not an exotic system, be it re- 
marked, but a natural workaday one, which, 
once started, will go on improving itself. We 
can do this better if we put all our fine feel- 



48 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

ings and sentimentality and charity in our 
pockets, and find out what is wrong. 

As an example of this very principle in one 
of its not least important aspects, we may take 
the club system of medical practice of which we 
have been talking, and study how to improve it. 
Disease and its aftermath lead to more destitu- 
tion, submerging of the poor, and filling of the 
workhouse and its accessories than anything 
else, so that the problem is worth tackling. 

If, as we have seen, joining a sick benefit 
club is the only insurance against ill-health 
that the workman can provide himself with 
during health, we, may take it that he does not 
join simply to spite and defraud the doctor; 
it is simply a reaction to a particular environ- 
ment. 

The evils of the club system arise very simply. 
In the first place, the workmen are not able to 
pay enough to raise a sufiicient sum to ade- 
quately repay the doctor for attending to so 
many. In the second place, the aggregate 
amount coming in annually as a fixed sum is 
nevertheless sufficient to tempt the doctor to 
undertake the club work, although in many 
cases he knows within his soul he is going to 
scamp it, both in time and attention, as com- 
pared with his better paid private work. Thirdly, 
the workers belonging to the club have elimi- 
nated all competition amongst themselves for the 
doctor's services, and have got better terms from 
the doctor, as far as money goes, in that he 



THE DOCTOE AND HIS PATIENT 49 

attends them much cheaper per visit than if 
each of them had gone to him separately when 
ill. At the same time, by their union and by 
the annual sum they have to offer, they have 
turned the tables and set the doctors of the 
district in competition, and by going about 
amongst the doctors and exciting this competi- 
tion they have succeeded in getting their work 
done at the lowest possible figure per head per 
annum, and fondly imagine they have done a 
good stroke of business for themselves. 

The end result is that the club sweats the 
doctor to the last' drop, and the doctor in turn 
scamps the club patient's case to the last inch 
he can go, without losing his appointment, 
and in this process, as pointed out earlier in 
the chapter, the doctor is master of the situa- 
tion, for he possesses knowledge, and ignorance 
possesses the patients. 

By the operation of these simple processes, 
and a natural reaction of cause and effect, that 
vicious circle is established which renders club 
practice the detestation even of those doctors 
who engage in it, and at the same time such an 
unknown, but none the less terrible, evil to the 
poor sufferers who pay, albeit as little as they 
can help, for the ministrations of the physician. 

What is the way out from all this chaos? 
Precisely that unified system of State insurance 
against sickness which so many members of 
the medical profession are at present deriding 
as an extension of club and contract practice. 

D 



50 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

An extension in one sense it certainly is, 
but not in that nefarious sense which the pro- 
fession attaches to the word '' contract " practice 
to-day. 

In the first place, it is proposed that not only 
the workman, but also the employer and the 
State shall contribute ; so that there must be a 
larger sum to pay the doctor for adequate treat- 
ment and attendance. In the second place, the 
united income of the scheme is to be disbursed 
by the Government ; so that the State medical 
officer becomes a State servant, dealt with directly 
by the State and paid by the State, which is 
quite different to being paid by a motley crowd 
of Clubs and Friendly Societies. In the next 
place, the Government, being in charge of the 
scheme, can be approached by members of 
the State medical service for the institution 
of proper and equitable conditions of service. 
This cannot be done at all to the tens of thou- 
sands of Friendly Societies, which have for their 
object in life setting the doctors in competition 
to secure, almost regardless of quality, the lowest 
price possible. A Government could not afford 
to behave in this way ; the workmen, having once 
paid their subscriptions, would make it obvious 
that they must have a properly equipped and 
efficient service. A sweated service could not 
be this, and must inevitably tone up to the 
level of other national services. 

It is a great mistake to compare a national 
medical insurance worked by Government with 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 51 

present conditions under the Poor Law, a system 
which stands condemned on many counts by all 
competent critics. Those defects in Poor Law 
administration which have caused other evils 
have also led to the degraded sweating of medi- 
cal men by Poor Law Guardians. This system 
is seen at its acme of shoddiness in Ireland, in 
the vile treatment to which medical men have 
there been subjected time after time by ignorant 
Irish Poor Law Guardians. 

There is no question that Boards of Poor Law 
Guardians are doomed, so that at the very least 
the officers of any public system of sickness 
insurance would be under more responsible 
bodies, administering larger areas in Boroughs 
and Counties. For this reason the control 
would be in the hands, at the very worst, of 
more enhghtened people than at present. 

It is just here, however, that the new medical 
service may lose much of its efficiency if it is not 
made a truly national one. If the new medical 
service is placed under municipal control it will 
lose its coherence, and become like a territorial 
army of many isolated units, instead of one 
unified National Army of Health. 

The Scylla and Charybdis to be avoided in 
the projected reform are the Friendly Societies, 
which are very anxious to either wreck, or them- 
selves administer the scheme, on the one hand, 
and the Municipalities and other Local Autho- 
rities on the other. 

The true solution is one National Service for 



52 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

the whole country, under a Minister of Public 
Health of Cabinet rank. Local conditions for 
hospitals and administration may be left in 
the hands of local authorities, but the medical 
officers must be appointed to a National Service 
and be transferable from one local centre to 
another, and open to promotion from one place 
to another. 

Nor would the annual sum required be at all 
enormous to thoroughly carry out such a national 
scheme of State Insurance against disease. 

There are just over 32,000 medical men in 
practice in the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Ireland. It is quite a liberal estimate to 
take the average income of the profession at 
£250 per annum ; it has been quoted at £200 per 
annum. On the basis of £250 each per annum, 
the aggregate income of the whole of the 
medical profession accordingly amounts to just 
eight million pounds. The profession is at pre- 
sent underpaid, when the professional training 
and its duration and expense are taken into 
account, so that if we add one-fourth more for 
this, so as to make the State National Medical 
Service attractive for good men, we arrive at 
the net result that the State can employ all 
of these 32,000 medical men at a total cost of 
ten millions per annum. The average annual 
pay for each doctor would be somewhat over 
£300 a year, and taking it that a junior entered 
at about one hundred and fifty pounds a year, 
this would mean a system rising on ordinary 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 53 

promotions and good service to a maximum of 
one thousand pounds, and a small number of 
administrative officers at higher salaries, in the 
most distinguished posts. It would form a 
magnificent service, second to none other in 
the country. 

Also, there would be more doctors than at 
present to cope with working-class work. For 
we have supposed all the men now in practice 
to enter the new service on full-time work. 
But not more than two-thirds of those now in 
private practice are engaged on working-class 
practice. Accordingly, the national cost could 
either be reduced one-third in amount to six 
and two-third millions annually, one-third of 
the profession electing to remain on in private 
work ; or, alternatively, a much more effective 
service could be instituted at the above cost of 
ten millions annually. Now, when it is remem- 
bered that (1) workmen contribute, (2) employers 
contribute, and (3) the State contributes, this 
amount is certainly not an excessive sum to 
raise for such an enormous boon as a complete 
full-time National Medical Service would mean 
to the Nation. 

Let us look for a moment more closely at 
what the necessary contributions would mean to 
raise this sum. There would, it is estimated, 
be 12,000,000 workmen participating in any 
scheme of compulsory State Insurance. Suppose 
that each of these workmen contributed only 
one penny a week of insurance money, and the 



54 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

employer contributed also one penny a week 
for each workman he employed — surely not an 
excessively grinding tax upon either. Then 
the combined sum raised from these two sources 
would be ^Ye million two hundred thousand 
pounds annually, and the State would only have 
to add one million four hundred thousand to 
obtain the full and free services of the present 
staff of doctors working for the poor, and for 
a sum of four million eight hundred thou- 
sand could provide adequately and well for a 
National Medical Service sufficient to attend 
not merely to the workmen, but to every man, 
woman, and child in the whole Kingdom, and 
much better than is done at present. 

The whole scheme is not nearly as costly as 
the provision required under the Old Age Pen- 
sions Act, which, long talked of, is now an 
established fact ; and there is no doubt that 
the National Medical Service would prove at 
least as beneficial and as popular as the Old 
Folks' Charter. 

An important fact, well worth remembering, 
is that this taxation would not really be new 
national expenditure, but rather a great saving 
of money to the people. For the doctors have 
even now to be paid by hook or by crook in 
some fashion or other ; and so, although the 
workman had to contribute his penny a week, 
he would then no longer have to pay the doctor, 
and so would save money and provide against 
the evil day of illness. The gain, in disease 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 55 

stopped at incipient stages and in increased 
health and corresponding power of his work- 
people, together with regularity of work less 
interrupted by illness, would more than repay 
the employer for his contribution ; and, lastly, 
the immunity from infection and premature 
death, given by the operations of such a 
National Health Service, would most certainly 
repay many times over the general taxpayer 
for his moiety of the fund. Leaving the 
question of money, let us now glance at the 
economy of such a system from the scientific 
and sociological point of view. 

If the Government provides a sickness in- 
surance scheme such as outlined above, prac- 
tically all the doctors will be paid sufficiently 
for full-time service for the Government, and 
so the system comes under a unified control. 
As a result, the members of the Stafi" can be 
located and assigned work according to the 
views of the Minister in charge of the ser- 
vice and his advisers. Accordingly, in the in- 
tervals of attending to cases of serious illness, 
accidents, etc., attention can be given to inspec- 
tion and instruction as outlined in previous 
chapters. The work can also be adequately 
divided up so that one man is not nearly idle 
while another is working himself to death over 
scamped, ill-done work ; and also the whole 
question of hospital abuse falls away, because 
the doctor working inside the hospital is a fellow 
and colleague of the doctor at work out in the 



56 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

slums sending in the serious cases to him, 
and is no longer robbing the doctor outside 
in practice of his livelihood. 

Contrast this with the present disjointed 
order of things, where the doctor sits idle half 
his time behind his red lamp and brass door- 
plate waiting for the patient, and the patient 
in the slum, ill himself and infecting others, 
waits and dies in the absence of the doctor 
whom our wretched system will not allow to 
come to him. 

Take the case of the young graduate in 
medicine who sets up his plate and lamp at 
a street corner, and waits for patients to drop 
in upon him. For a period varying from six 
months to a year, if he sets up as a shilling 
dispensary doctor, to one to three years in an 
ordinary intermediate type of general practice, 
or, still more, of five to ten years if he is at- 
tempting to become a consulting physician or 
surgeon — for all this period he does hardly 
anything, and for a still longer period his time 
is only very partially employed. Even the 
fairly busy practitioner later on, or the dispen- 
sary practice man who runs through cases at 
breakneck speed in the so-called surgery in 
the evening and does his round of visits in 
the morning, has plenty of time between whiles 
in which he could do other things, such as 
hospital work, or organised slum inspection 
for disease requiring removal or treatment; 
but our wretched, hide-bound system of private 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 57 

practice, with its strange, nonsensical code of 
ethics and professional etiquette, requiring a 
modern Cervantes to set the world a-laughing 
at it — this monstrous system permits no latitude 
to the doctor; he must lie in waiting at his 
own home for disease to come to him. Even 
when it does come to him, it must come in 
proper guise, and all formalities must be pro- 
perly arranged before he can touch it. 

A good part of the doctor's time is even 
spent in secretarial work — in sending out and 
collecting his bills for work done, and in getting 
his collectors to look after bad debts for him. 
An exception, of course, is the ready-money, 
ready-made, shilling-dispensary-practice degra- 
dation, where the patient tips the doctor after 
each little attention, and carries his bottle of 
ill-assorted, harmless, useless physic back home 
with him to drink in peace while he continues 
uninterruptedly those evil courses which harbour 
and encourage his disease. 

How much preferable for the doctor to get 
his quarterly cheque from Government, and 
spend his time in being a doctor and looking 
after questions of health and disease, leaving 
bill-posting and fee-squeezing to those whose 
business it is ! 

Again, under our present system the doctor 
has absolutely no opportunity to keep himself 
in touch with the progress of medical science, 
and is apt to become a pure empiric, a quack 
and a charlatan, who talks about, and pre- 



58 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

tends a knowledge of, things of which he is 
profoundly ignorant. The doctor in general 
practice may be able to read occasionally 
in his weekly medical journal, or once upon 
a time attend a meeting of a local medical 
society ; but this cannot adequately replace 
practical work in laboratory or hospital. From 
this latter source of stimulus and inspiration 
nine-tenths of our medical men are cut off from 
the day they qualify and cease to be medical 
students, till the day of their death in harness, 
struggling for their living and that of those 
dependent upon them. 

The result is most deplorable, and greater 
than the lay public can possibly realise, or they 
would rise up in indignation and sweep the 
present system away wholesale, lock, stock, and 
barrel. 

During the last fifteen to twenty years our 
knowledge on both medical and surgical sides 
has been increasing enormously, and for the 
same period the great majority of practitioners 
have been acquiring any acquaintance with new 
knowledge in a second or third hand way, and 
without any practical teaching. 

Our present system provides no means by 
which, without losing their incomes, they can 
return for six months or a year to laboratory 
and hospital and have their minds refreshed by 
a post-graduate course. Many of them are so 
chronically steeped in ignorance that they do not 
even know that they require such a rejuvenation. 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 59 

Nor are they to be blamed in the least ; they 
are rather only to be pitied, and still more to be 
pitied are their patients, for whom it may be 
frankly admitted that they are conscientiously 
striving to do their best. 

Contrast this state of affairs with what 
happens in the case of the medical officers 
of our Army and Navy and Indian Medical 
Services. Here there are modern, up-to-date 
Staff Colleges and Hospitals, to which the 
medical officers, after intervals of service, are 
allowed leave on full pay, to go and learn 
modern methods of diagnosis and treatment. 

But the unfortunate general medical prac- 
titioner in private practice enjoys no such 
luxury as this ; if he takes a short post- 
graduate course of two or three weeks, he 
must snatch it in a vacation, which he sadly 
needs for bodily recuperation, and no one 
offers to pay his fees, or work his practice 
and give him the money while he is taking 
the course. 

Sad to have to state, in too many cases the 
private practitioner has almost ceased to be 
a professional man at all. He has become 
purely a business man, in a line of business 
which rarely yields more than a pittance. 

There are, of course, very many who have 
not allowed the iron to enter into their souls, 
and in spite of the claims of a general practice, 
keep up an acquaintance with scientific medi- 
cine and modern practice. But the system is 



60 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

a horribly fossilising one, and the men who go 
asleep under it are scarcely to be blamed. 

Another crying evil of our present system 
is the multitude of extraneous things, not 
related to professional skill in the remotest 
degree, which are necessary and make for 
success in the profession. It is often well 
known to his brother practitioners that the 
highly successful doctor, who has the largest 
and best-paying practice in the town or district, 
is by no means the best physician or surgeon 
in it. In fact, he is often little better than a 
well- qualified quack, who knows how to play 
on the feelings and sentiments of the laymen 
upon whose bodies he practises, because of the 
subtle influence he possesses over their minds. 

The man who succeeds in general private 
practice is he who can best please the ladies, 
and who, by an affable exterior and calm 
pose of face, can hide the profound ignor- 
ance within his cranium, while his neighbour 
with tenfold the ability, but an abstracted or 
brusque manner, and without the social arts 
of pleasing, gets little or nothing to do. 

Who are the jury to decide whether the 
doctor's work is done well or ill, but lay 
people who know nothing and can be taught 
nothing of the case ? As to judgment by re- 
sults, apart from egregious mistakes amount- 
ing to malpractice, how can the public judge 
here or determine how much is due to chance 
and how much to the ministrations of the 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 61 

doctor? If the case goes ill, an apt manner, 
carefully constructed statements, and sympa- 
thetic bearing convey the certainty that "the 
best possible has been done, but nature must 
have its course"; while if it goes well, "Oh, 
what skill! how well everything was done, 
and what a marvellous cure the doctor made 
of a bad case ! " 

In medical practice, so much necessarily 
rests on causes beyond control, that all depends 
on the impression upon lay minds produced 
by the doctor's manner as to the verdict upon 
him. This mental influence of the doctor on 
patient and patient's friends is sometimes 
valuable, when it is not used as a cloak for 
ignorance, but its absence is disastrous to the 
career of many a man who is lacking in the 
small social amenities, and in what might be 
called professional style, and yet possesses in 
high degree that professional skill and acumen 
which is essential in the treatment of serious 
disease. Also, it is most unfortunate when a 
plausible style covers, as it often does, lack 
of scientific ability, and the man depending 
upon his powers cultivates this manner as his 
chief stock-in-trade, instead of keeping himself 
up to date in his professional skill, and so be- 
comes a mere charlatan, living upon the fact 
that most of the fees, especially in middle-class 
practice, are made from trivial, commonplace 
ailments, and calling in the consultant, or 
sending the case, if it is a poor patient, to 



62 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

hospital, as soon as he gets into any difficulties 
for which a competent practitioner would scorn 
asking assistance. 

The final indictment against this system of 
private medical practice, even from the point of 
view of treatment and of the private patient, 
is the same as that which we have urged from 
the community's point of view in the prevention 
of disease, namely, that the most incompetent 
agent in the world for the purpose, to wit, the 
patient himself, sets the machinery in motion. 

The patient is forced to go to the doctor 
either because he is enduring pain or because 
life, on account of weakness or depression, has 
become a burden to him. 

Now, for both men and women, there are 
hundreds of cases where these indications only 
come in when it is too late to go to any doctor, 
and the case is beyond hope. This, too, where 
an earlier indication and visit to a competent 
doctor would have put quite a different com- 
plexion on the case. 

Many most serious diseases, such, for example, 
as both phthisis and cancer, are frequently un- 
attended by pain in their earlier stages, or even 
until far advanced, and it is far too late to go 
to the doctor when weakness and prostration 
have begun to supervene. 

From our childhood we have been brought 
up, most of us, to associate a visit or inspection 
by the doctor with most unpleasant memories ; 
partially due to the obnoxious habit of some 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT 63 

physicians of pouring vile-tasting medicines 
into children, when there is no indication for 
them, and they are probably doing more harm 
than good, and, in great part also, from the 
fact that we scarcely ever see a doctor profes- 
sionally unless there is something the matter 
either with ourselves or some one dear to us. 

Why so often is it left to the doctor to pro- 
nounce a death sentence ? Why is the doctor 
looked upon as a person only to be called in 
to exorcise disease ? Would it not be a change 
for the better if we could get to look upon him 
as the Minister of Health rather than of Disease, 
and evolved a corresponding system ? 

It is in this saner way that educated people 
have within the last generation grown to regard 
another professional man who has made a special 
study of one branch of surgery, viz. the dentist. 
We no longer wait until we have violent tooth- 
ache, and then rush off to the dentist to have 
the tooth extracted, as did our more immediate 
forefathers. We are learning that it is our duty 
to our children to take them once a year at least 
to the dentist to have their teeth inspected. 

It would be a better day for most of us, even 
in regard to individual health as apart from 
public, if we learnt that our doctors ought to 
be preventive officers, and if we paid them an 
annual fee and went to be examined, and if 
necessary forewarned and treated, at periodical 
intervals. 

How many men have learnt for the first 



64 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

time that they were in the incipient or even 
more advanced stages of serious illness when 
they have gone to the doctor, as they imagined, 
in perfect health to be examined for life insur- 
ance ; and how many, taking advantage of good 
advice given on such an occasion, have curbed 
a bad habit of life, or of appetite, and stopped 
an inroad of disease, which they would have 
only found out too late if they had gone to a 
doctor in the ordinary course of events ? 

No ; the serious, unmistakable signs of disease, 
as visible or obvious to a laymen, often — too 
often — come too late to make that system, which 
leaves the individual sole arbiter of his health, 
a safe one, either for the patient himself, or for 
those immediately around him or dependent upon 
him, or for the general public. 

We have seen how the unattended, often 
undiscovered, disease of slum-land reacts back 
upon the general health of the community. The 
same thing which holds for the community 
holds in still higher degree for the family ; and 
that in all ranks, but more particularly in the 
lower classes, where families are huddled to- 
gether and overcrowded. 

How often do we see one sister after another 
in the same family dying of phthisis, or husband 
following wife, or wife husband, till a family is 
well-nigh wiped out ? This, too, occurs where 
all possible care to avoid infection is taken by 
the family after the first member has gone to 
the doctor and had the case diagnosed. What 



THE DOCTOR AND HIS PATIENT Q5 

is the cause of this, the most melancholy picture 
in all medical practice ? 

Nothing so much as the system which has 
for its fundamental basis that we do not go 
to our doctors until we think we are ill. The 
seeds of the fatal disease are often laid in the 
second and third members of the family before 
the first has been to the doctor at all. 

Think of it : only one person in two hundred 
and fifty of us at the present moment has con- 
sumption ; but at least one adult in every seven 
of us is going to die of it. All because of this 
nefarious, wait-till-you're-ill system, which no 
one has the courage to attack, and because we 
will not send doctors out to the highways and 
byways to find disease, and haul it apart so 
that they may stand between the healthy and 
the infected and the plague be stayed. 

As it is with consumption, so it is with a 
hundred and one other diseased conditions. 
Instead of having our doctors come to us while 
we are well, or think we are well, we refuse 
to go to them until we are certainly ill, and 
then we too often learn we have come too late. 

As one more instance there may be quoted 
cancer in women. Here the details are not 
suitable for placing before lay readers, but it 
may be pointed out that in the earlier stages, 
where the surgeon could do something, there 
is often no pain. There is only what appears 
to be a harmless swelling, often coming on so 
slowly that it is hardly noticed, and the patient 

E 



66 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

is not alarmed, or has some false modesty in 
going to a physician. Later, when the thing 
becomes more troublesome, she goes, alas, too 
often to be told, it is too late. 

Now, suppose we had established firmly that 
the only right principle in such cases is an 
early medical consultation ; and suppose, further, 
that which is essential for the majority of cases 
occurring amongst poor working women or the 
wives of workmen, that we had established such 
a National Medical Service that this consulta- 
tion could be obtained gratis, and as thorough 
and skilful as if the individual patient were 
paying for it, and, most important of all, with- 
out having to lose practically a day's work going 
to the Out-patient Department of a Charity 
Hospital. What a change this would make, 
what a revolution in our whole system ; how 
many useful lives might be spared, and homes 
left bright on which death now casts its 
shadow ! 



CHAPTER IV 

OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS: THEIR EVILS 
AND ABUSES 

There is no virtue so well-beloved as charity, 
nor any to which so many counterfeits of all 
kinds exist, so closely resembling the real article 
that it is often difficult to expose the fraud. 

But just as matter in the wrong place is dirt, 
so the most admirable virtue turned from its 
right use becomes vice. 

A sincere and practical commiseration for 
the woes of our fellow-men leading to well- 
directed acts of charity or benevolence, whether 
given in service or in money, must always excite 
the admiration of the noble-minded. 

It is for this reason that the sentiment and 
lofty purpose which have founded and main- 
tained our Voluntary Hospital system have 
received so much admiration and eulogy for 
generations. 

The author has no fight to wage with such 
high sentiments as these, and as his own object 
is the alleviation of human suffering, just as 
is that of the philanthropist of the voluntary 
hospital, this common aim and objective must be 
his excuse for pointing out some of the limita- 

67 



68 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

tions in our present equipment for reaching our 
destination, and showing that our energies may 
perhaps better be turned into another channel 
of approach. 

In the task of destroying disease and abolish- 
ing destitution we require, and must have, the 
aid of every one in the nation who is capable of 
assisting ; there must be no shirking of what is 
every one's duty, and each must be eager to do 
his share. 

The contribution to be exacted does not 
always mean money; sometimes it means ser- 
vice, skill, privation, or separation. The de- 
mands of disease-fighting are inexorable ; there 
is no royal path for any one ; disease is no 
respecter of persons or conditions ; we must 
fight it in a scientific way, or we must suffer 
defeat. A few lunatics, or ignoramuses, with 
conscientious objections, or some other form of 
lunacy such as faith-healing, can wreck our 
whole scheme, so that it cannot be voluntary ; it 
can only succeed when the voice of the majority 
of the people demands it and it is backed by a 
strong Government. 

Now, in spite of all its lofty sentiments of 
voluntary charity and benevolence, the curse 
of the voluntary hospital system — and it is a 
great curse — is that it is blinding the eyes of 
those who could most help social reform to 
the fact that we possess no National Hospital 
System. The Voluntary System is utterly in- 
adequate ; it is strained to its utmost limit and 



OUE HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 69 

almost bankrupt, and yet it cannot attend to 
more than about fifteen to twenty per cent, 
of the cases requiring attention. By its very 
excellence in attending to this small proportion 
of the suffering poor, it blinds our eyes and 
blunts our perceptions in regard to the eighty 
per cent, which it does not touch at all. 

This is the keynote, the fundamental failure, 
in our hospital system, and must not be lost 
sight of in any detailed description of other 
hospital evils and abuses which follow in this 
chapter. 

A system which cannot do more than fifteen 
per cent., or twenty at the outside, of the work 
which it is intended to do, and this after genera- 
tions of highest effort, is a hopeless failure, and 
is a vice and a drawback, because it stands 
in the way of the introduction of a proper 
organised scientific effort. 

Even this small proportion of work done by 
the Voluntary Hospitals is by no means perfect, 
nor is it uniform in its standard throughout the 
country; but even if it were perfect, how by 
voluntary effort is it to be made to extend to 
deal with the eighty per cent, at least of work 
which is now either done most execrably by 
the Poor Law Authorities, or left undone 
altogether ? 

The best and warmest friends of the volun- 
tary system must admit that any such five- or 
six-fold extension is utterly impossible, and 
out of the question. 



70 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

Now, from personal experience and examina- 
tion, the author vouches that the poor persons 
in the Voluntary Hospitals differ in no way or 
respect from the poor persons in the Poor Law 
Hospitals, and these again from those helpless 
in the slums unable to obtain admission to 
either type of hospital. 

If this be so — and it will be hard to controvert 
it — the whole position is illogical and utterly 
untenable to any thinking person. 

Further, it may be truly said that any person 
who contributes towards or endows voluntary 
hospitals, however good his or her intentions, 
is contributing to the perpetuation of a great 
national nuisance and great national wrong 
which cries aloud for redress. 

Such contributions indicate no true charity, 
but its exact opposite ; there is no health in 
the puling sentimentality which short-sightedly 
relieves the case in view and wilfully neglects 
the nine cases, equally deserving, clamouring 
for attention just around the corner. Such 
sentimentality, by casting a spurious air of 
decency about the proceedings, prevents that 
wholesome exposure which public morality and 
good faith with ourselves demand. 

This is a public sore and festering spot, not 
to be plastered over with anodynes and oint- 
ments till it is hidden from view, and kept 
out of sight by repeated coatings of the oint- 
ment of spurious charity ; the sore needs to 
be opened by the surgeon's knife and treated 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 71 

in a scientific way so that it may be healed, 
instead of remaining with us for ever. 

Let us stop dropping feeble sentimental tears 
over the sufferings of the poor and doling out 
charity to them ; let us put them under a system 
which will end these sufferings. 

In this process the first essential is the 
reduction of disease, and for this we must 
have a unified, organised system of hospitals 
under the direction and control of our National 
Medical Service. 

Do not turn away and say the Nation can- 
not afford it, for it is going to cost less by 
half than our present extravagant and wasteful 
systems of (1) Voluntary Hospitals, (2) Poor 
Law Hospitals, (3) Municipal Hospitals, (4) 
Special Hospitals, (5) Municipal Dispensaries, 
and, last and worst of all, (6) No Hospitals. 
Give us one organised system in true co-ordina- 
tion, instead of all this chaos, and one may ven- 
ture to guarantee that both disease and expense 
will drop to one-half together. 

In writing with some feeling on these evils 
of our present hospital systems, the author is 
not being carried away by imagined horrors, 
or dealing with matters of which he has heard 
from another ; he has actually seen and ex- 
perienced these things, and can state as an 
eye-witness that there is no greater mass of 
incongruity and absurdity and wasteful extra- 
vagance existing anywhere in all the whole 
fabric of our civilised institutions than the 



72 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

British Hospitals taken as a whole. Such con- 
trasts of good and evil, light and shade, sanita- 
tion and insanitation, order and disorder, wealth 
of space and overcrowding, highest medical 
skill and practically no medical attendance, 
can nowhere be found in such profusion as 
in the wards of our hospitals. 

Let any one who thinks this is the per- 
sonal view of a crank go and pay a visit to 
one of our better- class Voluntary Hospitals, 
and then visit one of our older Poor Law 
Hospitals, or read, if this is not feasible, the 
account of the recent Koyal Poor Law Com- 
mission, both Majority and Minority, as to 
how the poor are treated in our Poor Law 
Hospitals. 

Those who cannot do this may learn much 
by consulting the accounts of various hospital 
inspections throughout the country made by 
Sir Henry Burdett, K.C.B., and published in 
the Hospital during 1909-10. 

There are no arguments so telling as baldly 
stated facts from concrete instances, so one may 
contrast here two hospitals existing almost side 
by side in the same city, the one a Voluntary 
Charity Hospital and the other a Poor Law 
Hospital. 

Since these two hospitals are but a type of 
what exists, neither better nor worse, over the 
greater part of the country, and as the object is 
to describe existing conditions without attach- 
ing either praise or blame to administrators, 



OUE HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 73 

the city and the two hospitals are described 
under assumed names. 

The statements made, however, are mainly 
based on the author's own personal observations 
of two actual institutions; and, further, they 
are substantially in accord with the reports of 
one of the greatest hospital authorities in the 
world, on these two institutions. 

The two hospitals in question are the Royal 
Charity Infirmary, Cottonport, and the Guardian 
Angel Workhouse Infirmary, Cottonport. 

The Royal Charity Infirmary contains just 
under 300 beds, and the Guardian Angel In- 
firmary contains close on 1000 beds. The 300 
patients of the ** Royal Charity," in addition 
to the Consulting Staff, have three visiting 
physicians and three visiting surgeons to in- 
vestigate and attend to their illnesses, while 
over 900 patients at the " Guardian Angel " 
have one visiting physician and one visiting 
surgeon to perform a like ofiice. There is a 
Gynaecological Surgeon and an Assistant Gynae- 
cological Surgeon, with a resident House Sur- 
geon under them, to attend to gynaecological 
cases at the Royal Charity Infirmary; in the 
more than three times larger Guardian Angel 
Infirmary there is no gynaecologist, all gynaeco- 
logical operations being performed by the single 
visiting surgeon. There are at the Royal 
Charity Infirmary an ophthalmic surgeon, a 
laryngologist, a dermatologist, a surgeon in 
charge of the X-Ray Department, and four 



74 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

medically qualified Anaesthetists — there are no 
such officers at the more than threefold larger 
Guardian Angel Infirmary, only a few hundred 
yards distant in the same city of Cottonport. 

There are, in addition to the Senior Honorary 
Staff of the Royal Charity Infirmary, three Hon. 
Assistant Surgeons and two Hon. Assistant 
Physicians ; there is no corresponding staff 
whatever at the Guardian Angel Infirmary. 
There are a medical registrar, a surgical registrar, 
three house physicians, and five house surgeons 
to look after the 300 patients at the Royal 
Charity Infirmary, while there are four resident 
medical officers all told at the Guardian Angel 
Infirmary to attend to nearly 1000 patients. 

Summing up these facts, there are twenty-one 
Visiting Medical Officers attached to the Royal 
Charity Infirmary, and ten Resident Medical 
Officers ; while there are two Visiting Medical 
Officers and four Resident Medical Officers at 
the Guardian Angel Infirmary ; and it may be 
finally reiterated that the former institution has 
less than 300 beds, and the latter well over 900 
beds. 

So much for the relative Staffs of the two 
Hospitals : now as to equipment. The Royal 
Charity Infirmary is modern and up-to-date, 
while the Guardian Angel Infirmary is anti- 
quated, and in the opinion of many competent 
authorities, ought to have been pulled down 
years ago. The buildings for the 300 patients 
cost at least double as much as those for the 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 75 

1000 patients. It is difficult, without actual 
measurements, to estimate relative air-spaces, 
but there is quite double, probably treble, as 
much air-space per patient at the Royal Charity 
Infirmary as at the Guardian Angel Infirmary. 

The sanitary arrangements at the " Guardian 
Angel " scarcely can bear description. There are 
only two baths, pre-Roman in their appearance, 
for each floor of one hundred and fifty beds, 
and these two baths have to be used for such 
washing purposes, as well as the patients' bodies, 
which exigency requires to be done upon the 
spot — such, for example, as the soiled waterproof 
sheets from the beds. The common closets, in 
an open row, and the common latrine on each 
floor, " beggars all description," but not for the 
same reason as Cleopatra in her barge, although 
here also " a strange invisible perfume hits the 
sense." 

In contrast, the sanitary arrangements at the 
** Royal Charity" are all that the requirements 
of a modern hospital demand. Each ward 
possesses its own set of (1) patients' wash-up 
room, (2) bathroom, (3) set of separated closets, 
and (4) nurses' sanitary wash-out room with air- 
shaft to outer air. This set of four sanitary 
rooms is built apart from the main ward in a 
Sanitary Tower separated from the ward by a 
well- ventilated vestibule. The whole system is 
walled by glazed fireclay brick, easily kept in 
clean condition. 

In the wards themselves, the floors at the 



7^ DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

" Koyal Charity " are of oak parquetry, while at 
the '' Guardian Angel " they are of common deal, 
cracked, splintered, seamed, and worn everywhere 
till the many knots stand up like the gnarled 
excrescences of a gouty old age. The walls are 
of glazed brick at the ''Royal Charity"; at the 
** Guardian Angel" they are roughly plastered 
and painted over. 

Attached to each ward of the ** Royal Charity," 
these wards containing eighteen to thirty-two 
beds only, there are the following working 
accessories: (1) a small isolation ward con- 
taining two beds, and (2) a convalescent room 
for patients able to walk about. To every 
two wards there is a small clinical laboratory 
assigned, in which chemical and bacteriological 
investigations and other scientific examinations 
relating to the cases can be carried out, and 
these laboratories are well fitted with scien- 
tific appliances. No slightest vestige of these 
up-to-date requirements exist at the '' Guar- 
dian Angel," where there is no means for ex- 
amination or investigation in the whole vast 
institution. 

One surgeon only, the visiting surgeon, has 
hitherto performed all the surgical operations 
deemed necessary for the whole of the patients 
of this huge hospital (" Guardian Angel"), in- 
cluding all the gynsecological cases. For all 
these operations there are provided only two 
small surgical theatres situated in attics on 
two top floors, one for the male hospitals and 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 17 

one for the female hospitals. In each of these 
divisions there are over 400 beds, probably 
half of which are surgical — that is to say, 
there is one little, antiquated theatre for a 
hospital of over 400 beds, and one half the 
services of a single visiting surgeon. 

The patients at the "Guardian Angel" are 
anaesthetised in the operating theatre itself, 
and when one thinks of the demands on one 
operating surgeon's time in such a huge insti- 
tution, it is probable that a previous patient is 
usually undergoing an operation when the next 
is carried into the operating theatre on stretchers. 
There is no passenger lift to the whole of each 
huge four-storied block (or, rather, three blocks 
arranged in the worst possible manner and 
buttressed up by other buildings), and hence the 
unfortunate patients have to be carried to and 
from the operating theatre on stretchers along 
narrow corridors and up and down steep and 
awkward stone staircases. It suggests forcibly 
to one's mind certain adaptations of the lines 
on the pauper's burial by Tom Hood.^ 

There is no steam steriliser in either of these 
two small theatres ; there are two operating 
tables in each, of a most antique gridiron pat- 
tern, quite unadaptable for the different surgical 
positions ; the floor is of common boards, the 
famishings of the most parsimonious character, 

* Such as : — 

Battle his stretcher up and down stairs ; 
He's only a pauper, and nobody cares. 



78 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

and the instruments scanty and often out-of- 
date. 

On the other hand, the "Royal Charity" 
possesses four large operating theatres, each 
replete with all modern conveniences, with 
anaesthetising rooms attached to each ; and 
there are two commodious hydraulic lifts from 
floor to floor, and rubber- tyred trolley couches 
on which the patients are conveyed to and from 
the wards and operating theatres. 

With such a Stafi" as we have seen is pro- 
vided at the " Guardian Angel," it goes with- 
out saying that there cannot be much order 
or arrangement of the patients in the wards, 
or adequate note-taking or attention to the pro- 
gress of the cases. On account of an ingenious 
space-saving device of the architect, who pro- 
bably flourished and was gone before the 
science of bacteriology had made much progress, 
it comes to pass that the ends of several of 
the wards are veritable boxes, having quite 
blank walls without windows on three sides 
for at least half their length, and on the 
day of the writer's visit there were phthisical 
and non-phthisical patients lying side by side 
on beds not very wide apart in these window- 
less ends of wards. 

There was a considerable number of such 
phthisical patients, and it was explained to me 
by my conductor that these patients were mixed 
up with the others because the phthisis wards 
were full. 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 79 

Two special wards for phthisis on the male 
side, and one on the female side, each with 
low-pitched roof, had no windows whatever 
to the open air on three of their walls, and 
the few windows on the one free side were 
small and high. Two of the walls were quite 
devoid of windows ; the third had borrowed 
light and air from a long, dark corridor run- 
ning between this ward and a fellow ward in 
a parallel tier with it. But this poor corridor 
had little of air and less of light for the wards 
to borrow from it. 

Just reflect on the above, as a ward for 
phthisical cases, in the year of grace, nineteen 
hundred and ten. 

When the press of phthisical cases becomes 
too great, the more convalescent patients, it 
appears, are sometimes sent over to the general 
workhouse.^ A visit to one of the bedrooms of 
this place revealed in a room little better than 
a cellar, with windows on two adjacent sides 
only, and these all tightly closed, about forty 
men in beds packed closely together. The 
atmosphere was vile and heavy at 9 p.m. ; its 
condition from midnight till morning can be 
left to the imagination. Is it wonderful, when 
tuberculosis is so carefully cultivated in our 
midst, that our national death-roll from this 
plague runs up to 75,000 annually? 

1 This statement does not rest on the author's own personal 
observation, but on information volunteered by an officer of the 
institution. 



80 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

To go on painting the comparative details 
of the " Eoyal Charity" and ** Guardian Angel " 
Hospitals would only be to become weari- 
some ; no high colouring, no embellishment, is 
necessary. 

In these two hospitals, then, within a stone's- 
throw of each other in the same city, we find 
this obvious contrast. Both contain only poor 
people unable to pay for medical treatment, 
for that is the reiterated guarantee of all the 
Charity Hospitals, that they admit no one who 
can afford to pay; and indeed, under present 
conditions, that is only very elementary justice 
to the medical profession outside. Also, apart 
from ability to pay, there is no moral distinction 
of any kind between the two sets of patients. 
Examine the causes of disease in each institu- 
tion if you are a medical man, and you may 
notice the same diseases, due to the same causes, 
in the one institution as in the other. In the 
Poor Law Institution, on the occasion of one's 
visit, one saw several old veterans who had 
served their country well in the Crimean cam- 
paign and later wars ; respectable old chaps 
they seemed to be, who only had come upon 
dark days in their old age. 

There is not a thing, not a point of difference, 
between the two sets of patients, and hence 
the irresistible question arises. Why is one set 
treated so well, and the other set — over three 
times as large, be it remembered — treated so 
badly? 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 81 

Both ways of it cannot be right ; if the 
** Royal Charity" treatment is the proper one 
to accord to poor people who cannot pay for 
themselves when they are ill, then we are be- 
having with austerity, to use a mild term, to 
the inmates of the *' Guardian Angel." Con- 
trariwise, if the ** Guardian Angel " treatment 
indicates the proper way, then we are pam- 
pering the inmates of the '* Royal Charity." 

There is no attempt here to attach either 
praise or blame to the two sets of people who 
administer these two institutions. Could every 
circumstance be taken into account, the Poor 
Law Guardians of the " Guardian Angel '' might 
be found to have been doing as admirable a 
work under highly adverse conditions of environ- 
ment as the better-circumstanced Committee of 
the '* Royal Charity." That is not the question 
for us here at all ; there is no personal element 
in the matter — it is a matter of principle purely 
and simply. We require a unified, co-ordinated 
system of treating in hospital those large num- 
bers who are unable to pay, and this picture, in 
contrasts, is intended to illustrate how far we 
are from having any such system at present. 

Surely we ought to make some attempt to 
arrive at some principle of even-handed justice 
in these matters. 

It might possibly be argued that although 
there is no difference in poverty or deserts 
between the two sets of patients, there is a 
difference in the relationships of the two insti- 

F 



82 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

tutions to the community, in that the '* Koyal 
Charity" is a great teaching hospital, where 
our future doctors are trained, and where medi- 
cal science is advanced, and new discoveries 
made of great advantage to all mankind. To 
this there are two obvious replies which at once 
rob the argument of all significance. In the 
first place, all this greater comfort in the Volun- 
tary Hospital is not necessary for the study of 
disease ; and, secondly, there is no reason, except 
a most stupid and arbitrary law or rule of the 
Local Government Board, why the Poor Law 
Hospitals should not be used for medical study, 
instruction, and research. 

A teacher of clinical medicine or surgery 
at a medical school would find the wealth of 
clinical material of Guardian Angel Poor Law 
Hospital, and its value for teaching, as great as 
that of any Voluntary Hospital in the Country. 

Why is this vast store of rich clinical material 
in our University towns throughout the country 
absolutely thrown away and wasted ? Can the 
country afi*6rd to have any but the best of 
clinical experience placed at the disposal of the 
future doctors ? 

Are the ofiicials of the Local Government 
Board afraid of the susceptibilities of the poor 
patients in the hospitals under their purview, 
that they absolutely forbid entry for medical 
study, both to the medical student and the 
practitioner of the district ? Or is it perchance 
that the Boards of Guardians are afraid to press 



OUE HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 83 

home the Local Government Board to grant 
this boon for their districts ? 

It cannot surely be the susceptibilities of the 
pauper patients, for that cannot be greater than 
that of the patients in the Voluntary Hospitals, 
who are equally accepting charity there. No ; 
we must look for some other cause for this 
strange order of things, this subtle distinction 
between the recipients of Poor Law Charity 
and the recipients of Voluntary Charity, which 
makes the diseases of the latter worthy of study, 
while those of the former are beneath contempt, 
let alone study. 

Is it perhaps because the officials think the 
diseases of paupers are quite different from those 
of other people ? If so, they might at least 
appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the 
matter, and then consider both Minority and 
Majority Report, and pigeon-hole the results 
for their successors in office. 

It cannot surely be because the honorary physi- 
cians and surgeons of the great teaching hospitals, 
those great guns of the profession, would feel 
their craft in danger were any common doctor 
at a Poor Law Hospital allowed to teach from 
the clinical material at his disposal, and that 
too great access to clinical material might open 
too many gateways to knowledge ? No ! perish 
the thought. 

The brightest thoughts always come last, and 
the most probable thing dawns on one when 
the problem seems hopeless of solution. How 



84 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

could the present-day methods of treating Poor 
Law patients stand the free ingress of batches 
of fresh young students, free to see and to talk 
publicly outside of what they saw inside ? Just 
about as much as the hot-house plants of a 
conservatory could stand the cold breath of the 
winter winds. There would be too much moral 
ventilation about letting medical students into 
workhouse hospitals ; these institutions contain 
much that is best hidden from the light, and 
the medical student is a bit of a reformer, and 
an irresponsible enthusiast for justice. 

Open the gates of the workhouse infirmaries 
to the public, and the medical student who will 
bring the public in after him, and the whole 
system is exploded ; it will not last out even 
a single parliament. 

If the Poor Law Authorities only admitted 
medical students to their hospitals, the Poor 
Law medical appointments would at once rise 
in value to members of the medical profession ; 
these posts could soon be filled by the best 
physicians and surgeons in all our large cities, 
where there are universities and medical schools, 
and the filling of them need not cost the Guar- 
dians a penny. The physicians and surgeons 
who aspired to be consultants would be tripping 
over one another to get appointed. 

This is merely pointed out as a suggestion 
to the proper public authorities who may want 
to save money ; in the opinion of many sound 
judges, the system of paying a would-be consul- 



OUE HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 85 

tant by bringing him into contact with students 
is a most abominable practice. Every official 
of a hospital should be paid for his duties 
properly in salary, and there ought to be so 
many such appointments that any man's posi- 
tion as a consultant came to depend on his 
real skill and knowledge, and not upon his 
hanging on to a hospital and getting to know 
and be known of students. 

Eeturning to our contrast of the Voluntary 
and Poor Law Hospital systems, we may now 
attempt to answer the oft-made criticism, why, 
if the Voluntary Hospitals are so much better, 
and many of the Poor Law Hospitals are so 
wretched, suggest the abolition of the Volun- 
tary system, and the substitution of a Public 
or State system, since a public system under 
the Poor Law is doing so badly? The two 
hospitals just described might surely be taken 
as illustrating the advantages of a voluntary 
system over a publicly controlled system. The 
answer is that the Voluntary system is like an 
exotic plant which cannot be made to flourish 
sufficiently so that it may grow at least six- 
fold as large and do all the work, and mean- 
while, by the place it occupies in the public 
eye, it glozes over and palliates a great evil. 

By all means let us keep our Voluntary Hos- 
pitals for the present, if only we can remember 
that they are not solving a great national question 
which is pressing urgently for solution. 

Let us go on, if we must, playing at Charity 



86 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

like children with their toys in a nursery, if 
only at times we will come out of the land of 
make-believe and see that we are not really 
doing what we pretend we are doing. 

As for the Poor Law Hospital system, that 
is a failure, not because it is under a public 
system of administration, but because that 
system is so wretchedly devised, and has been 
going on upon wrong principles year after year 
for three generations. Under the Poor Law it 
is a shocking disgrace, for which, till just re- 
cently, your enlightened country disfranchised 
you, to be poor and in ill-health. It is necessary 
that the pauper patient should be treated just 
as horridly and uncomfortably as our twentieth- 
century state of decency of public feeling can 
permit, in order that the poor sick person shall 
not go to the Workhouse Infirmary to be a 
charge on the rates until the last gasp, or until 
poor suffering human nature can save its public 
degradation no longer, and crawls, or is carried 
by the police, into the Workhouse Hospital 
to die. 

It is a well-deserved penalty upon us that in 
this cheese-paring attempt to spare our pockets 
we save neither them nor our consciences nor 
reputations, but all sufi'er together. The few 
millions we seem to save in this way are ten- 
fold outbalanced by the cost borne by us on 
account of disease rampant over the country 
through the operation of this very system. 

We think, or our Boards of Guardians think 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 87 

for us, that a public service has been done when 
one junior medical man has been paid £120 to 
£150 a year to pretend he is properly looking after 
four to five hundred beds fiUed with sick people 
in a Workhouse Hospital, and no medical officer 
at all is sent out to the slums to send the rest 
of them into the hospital, where, if it were 
properly organised, they ought to be receiving 
proper attention. But is it so ? In very truth 
we pay tenfold in cash alone for our sin of 
inhumanity, not to mention that upon which 
no value in money can ever be put, the sacrifice 
of those dear to us as life itself carried off by 
the infections cultured in workhouse and slum- 
land. 

The second great count which may be made 
in this indictment of our present miscellaneous 
congeries of hospital systems is that they are 
hopelessly out of touch with the medical practi- 
tioners throughout the country, and that this 
is most highly detrimental alike to the public 
service, to the hospitals themselves, and to the 
medical profession. 

Any layman who may think this statement 
is too sweeping may be invited to make in- 
quiries amongst two or three of his medical 
acquaintances, and, especially if he happens to 
ask a doctor who has any practice amongst 
working people, as most doctors have, he will 
very rapidly be satisfied as to the true position 
of affairs as between hospitals and the pro- 
fession. 



88 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

If he will ask the one question, " Dr. So-and- 
so, what is the meaning of this hospital abuse 
that we hear spoken of occasionally 1 " he need 
say no more ; he will have waved the proverbial 
**red rag," or 'touched the button," if you 
prefer the simile, and "the doctor will do the 
rest." Just try the experiment the next time 
you happen to meet a genuine general medical 
practitioner; it is guaranteed to succeed nine 
times, at least, out of every ten. 

So it would with you, my dear reader, what- 
ever your profession or business may happen 
to be, if some one were trying to oust you out of 
it and do your work for nothing by means of a 
so-called charity subscribed by other people. 

Suppose that three-quarters at least of your 
income came to you from a certain set of 
clients, as three -fourths of the average medical 
practitioner's income does to him from the 
wage-earning classes, and that a large number 
of very benevolent people subscribed to set up 
institutions to perform the work for these 
clients that you had been doing before, and 
that on account of the charitable subscrip- 
tions and the conspiracy of a number of your 
colleagues in your own profession, this work, 
previously paid for to you, was now done 
gratuitously, and without recouping you in any 
shape or form, so that your income started to 
dwindle as your clients gradually discovered 
this new method of satisfying their wants. 

Now, one may ask, supposing you were 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 89 

gifted with an average human temper, what 
would you think of all this, and in what 
language would you clothe your thoughts (1) 
as to the charitable people, (2) as to the insti- 
tutions, and (3) as to your colleagues in the 
institutions who did your work for nothing? 

Perhaps some consideration of your answers 
to these questions may mellow your opinions 
of the doctor who has replied to your query as 
to what is *' hospital abuse," and if one tells 
you further that, in spite of his chafed feelings, 
the doctor so far forgives the colleague who 
does his work for nothing in the hospital 
that he throws highly paid work in his way 
with assiduity, and takes him out to see his 
wealthier patients to earn large fees from them, 
as a consultant and a brother, you will probably 
grow to regard the general medical practitioner 
as an exemplary prototype of a charitable 
Christian gentleman, or — something else. 

In both cases you will be quite wrong; the 
general medical practitioner may be both these 
things, but that does not explain his peculiar 
conduct. As a matter of fact, both he and 
his hospital colleague, the consultant, are in 
the grip of a vicious circle. 

There is only one way out, and that is a 
State Medical Service, and State Hospitals for 
all members of the wage-earning classes. 

Such a system gives co-ordination between 
medical attendance on the wage-earners outside, 
and medical and surgical attendance for them 



90 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

within the hospitals. As a result hospital abuse 
is done away with, because it simply cannot 
exist, and the doctor, whether his work lies 
within or without the hospital, is adequately 
recompensed for his labour. 

For the serious surgical diseases and injuries 
amongst the wage-earning classes, hospitals are 
absolutely indispensable. Major surgical opera- 
tions cannot be carried out efficiently and safely 
in the cottages of the poor, and even in the 
middle and upper-middle classes it is becoming 
increasingly recognised that surgical operations 
and careful nursing are best carried out in a 
special institution such as the private paying 
ward of a hospital or a nursing-home. The 
working classes used to dread a hospital opera- 
tion and preferred to pay their doctor and have it 
done at home, but this feeling is rapidly passing 
away, and in a few years will be non-existent. 
The change is due to many factors, such as 
(1) the action of medical practitioners them- 
selves in sending poor patients to hospital be- 
cause they honestly cannot contemplate carrying 
through a serious operation and after-nursing 
at the patient's own home, or, in other cases, 
see that the patient cannot pay for such pro- 
longed attendance and nursing ; (2) the much- 
decreased mortality, under modern conditions, 
of surgical operations in hospitals as compared 
with private houses, especially amongst the 
poorer classes, and the better equipment and 
conditions of living in the voluntary hospitals 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 91 

making the patient's sojourn there much more 
comfortable than a few years ago; (3) the 
excessive cost of a surgical operation at home, 
even amongst the middle classes ; (4) the grow- 
ing feeling that an institution which is sup- 
ported in so many diverse ways, and to which 
even the workmen, by weekly contributions and 
Saturday and Sunday collections, yield their 
quota, is no longer a charity, but an institu- 
tion to which all have almost the right of entry 
when there is room and they have need. 

When Voluntary Hospitals were first insti- 
tuted, and indeed to within a decade or so 
ago, it was on the assumption that they were 
for the relief of the poor, meaning thereby 
the very poor of the labouring class ; but de- 
velopments have been such, both in scientific 
medicine and surgery, and in our general 
public point of view with regard to hospitals, 
that the voluntary hospitals are now generally 
regarded as open to nearly all of the wage- 
earning class up to, at any rate, a wage- earning 
power of two pounds a week. Even a man 
earning three pounds a week will not be denied 
admittance for a serious surgical operation, 
although he may be expected to make some 
small contribution to the hospital funds. 

This state of aff'airs is most deplorable so 
long as the relationships of private practitioner 
and hospital remain unadjusted, and, by set- 
ting up the practitioner and hospital as rivals, 
is responsible for that hatred and excitement 



92 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

throughout the profession which is almost pro- 
ducing a condition of war between the pro- 
fession and the hospitals. This condition is 
the inevitable result of the specialisation in 
surgical work which has arisen, and of the 
inordinately high fees which surgeons are 
compelled to charge for work done outside 
the hospital. A surgeon nowadays can make 
quite a comfortable income on one good opera- 
tion a week, which perhaps occupies no more 
than a couple of hours of his time all told ; and 
a busy surgeon with a fast motor-car can make 
a princely income. Nor does he usually pos- 
sess any of that genius for craftsmanship, or 
advanced knowledge of science, which might 
reasonably be expected to carry such a huge 
income as its reward. 

He may in intellect and ability be nothing 
like so fine a man as his poorer colleague in 
medicine, or the medical scientist who plods 
along upon an income of five or six hundred 
a year, after previous years of struggle and 
poverty. 

His art is almost purely mechanical, and even 
at that often does not require exceptional mani- 
pulative ability. The secret of the situation is 
that he belongs to a small close craft with a 
very limited entree to its ranks, and a path of 
some expense, anxiety, and delay at the outset. 

The distinguished hospital surgeon is often a 
man of very mediocre attainments, whom years 
of practice on certain lines of work has placed 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 93 

in a unique position. He has shown keenness 
and patience, and trained his hands well to 
manipulation, but often he has not added one 
line, or precept, or practical application to the 
craft of which he is an exponent. He has 
usually taken for his hobby the acquirement of 
guineas, a bias acquired in those years of wait- 
ing and difficulty when the golden ones came 
in but slowly. His boast is that he makes 
more than his rival, Mr. So-and-so ; not, alas, 
too often, that he has done anything to adorn 
the Science and Art of Surgery. 

His period of large income making is a shorter 
one than that of the physician, for after twenty 
years of golden harvests his palmiest days are 
over. 

It is a sad thing, both for the public interests 
and for surgical science itself, that it should be 
so converted into an article of commerce. 

The evil concerns more than the wage-earn- 
ing classes ; middle-class people with incomes of 
the range of, say, £400 to £800 are also hardly 
hit by this grotesque arrangement which renders 
it impossible for more than about one medical 
man in fifty to carry through successfully a 
quite straightforward surgical operation. 

The middle-class or professional business man 
has to pay the penalty when he requires to submit 
to a surgical operation, either upon himself or 
some member of his family. He has then to 
help to pay for all those cases which the surgeon 
has been doing for nothing at the hospital, and 



94 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

has the defects of this system brought home to 
him, although he may hardly know what has 
hit him. He may wonder in a vague way why 
the highest possible surgical technique is always 
required, and he has to pay £50 to £100 for it, 
in addition to all the incidental expenses of 
preparation and nursing. He might be horrified, 
poor man, if he were told that the same thing 
was done in hospital every day for nothing ; and 
if he had enough knowledge to appreciate a visit 
to a modern hospital operating-room and surgi- 
cal ward, might realise that his operation could 
have been carried out better there, surrounded 
by all the appliances and accessories of the Art 
of Surgery, than in his suburban villa, to which 
the surgeon hurriedly brings such things as he 
thinks or foresees he may want in his hand-bag. 
All the upset to his household and family, too, 
might be spared, and his chances of recovery 
would brighten in purely professional hands of 
surgeon, doctor, and nurse. 

There is little or nothing in the way of inter- 
mediate grades between the patient who can, 
or is compelled to, pay much too handsomely 
and the patient who cannot meet these terms 
and is forced to be operated upon in hospital 
for nothing. Therein lies half the hospital 
abuse on the surgical side in our hospitals ; 
and the surgical side is twice as great as the 
medical. 

Another great danger to a certain middle 
class of patients is the very natural jealousy of 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 95 

the hospital engendered in the mind of the prac- 
titioner by this process of robbing him of his 
patients. His fees all stop when the patient 
goes to hospital. Is it natural, therefore, that 
even when he knows that all the circumstances 
of the case demand an operation, which can 
only properly be carried out in a hospital, that 
he will be prompt to urge his patient to go to 
hospital without delay ? 

There are very many cases, on the surgical 
side especially, in which palliative treatment 
can be pursued for a long time with varying 
chances of success, continuallyputting off the evil 
day, a process to which the patient is only too 
prone to listen with favour. Here commences 
a struggle between the practitioner's purse and 
his conscience ; to the honour of the profession, 
be it said, that conscience usually wins ; but 
why should he be subjected to any such struggle, 
with his feelings already at white heat against 
the hospitals ? 

The practitioner is hopelessly handicapped in 
the struggle : all the accessories of the scene are 
against him. He cannot afford to own privately 
all the instruments and outfit necessary for 
proper equipment, or provide the staif of assist- 
ants required. He has no right of admission 
as an operator to the well-equipped operating 
theatre at the hospital, so that he himself can 
operate, nor can he apply after-treatment in the 
hospital. His patient is not allowed by the 
regulations to pay a reasonable fee, and remain- 



96 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

ing under his own physician's care, who knows 
all about him, have a specialist to do the opera- 
tion in the hospital, and then pass back to the 
care of his own doctor, still in the hospital. 

In fact, unless the patient can pay like a 
very wealthy person, he must be treated like 
a pauper, and his physician as a nonentity. 

In this struggle, which is ever becoming more 
acute and bitter, of practitioner versus hospital, 
lives of patients are doubtless often lost, for one 
of two reasons — first, that the patient is sent to 
the hospital too late ; and secondly, that practi- 
tioners often operate at patients' homes under 
unjustifiable conditions, either as to surround- 
ings and means of care and nursing, or as to 
their own skill as operators. How frequently 
such instances occur it would be difficult to 
estimate, but the writer himself, in quite a 
limited experience, has known more than one 
clear instance of this danger to the public. 

There is another aspect of hospital work 
which has still further embittered this question 
of hospital abuse, and that is the barefaced 
way in which many of the out-patient depart- 
ments of our Voluntary Hospitals are used for 
the purpose of defrauding the medical pro- 
fession. 

Unless the out-patient department is used on 
a purely consultative basis, for the purpose of 
giving the opinion of the hospital physician or 
surgeon on a case where the patient is unable 
to pay a consulting fee, it becomes a clear 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 97 

usurpation of the professional rights of the 
practising doctor who advises working-class 
people and earns his living amongst them. 

It will be, of course, understood that we are 
now discussing the defects of out present system ; 
all this confusion would automatically disappear 
under a combined system of State Medical 
Officers and State Hospitals ; but so long as 
out-patient departments remain part of a volun- 
tary charitable system, and the outside practi- 
tioner earns his living by fees instead of receiving 
a salary as a State official, then the present 
intolerable state of affairs will remain not only 
unchecked, but growing in its proportions, as it 
rapidly is at present. 

It may be said, without the least hesitation, 
that at the present day there is no business or 
profession being so crushed by wrongful spolia- 
tion and confiscation as is the medical profes- 
sion ; and the irony of it is, that it is all being 
done in the name of charity and benevolence. 

If these would-be benefactors of their race 
would open their eyes to the fact that they 
are crushing out of existence one of the most 
humanitarian of all professions, and try to 
devise some plan on common-sense lines for 
its rehabilitation and proper recompense, they 
would do a great service not only to the medi- 
cal profession but to the poor whom they are 
desirous of assisting. 

It might be some small compensation if the 
poor were really benefited by this out-patient 

G 



98 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

system, or if medical science were advanced by 
it, but the exact reverse of all this is the case. 

There are two disgraces on the fair name 
and reputation of medical science to-day, which 
do more than anything else to reduce medicine 
to a pseudo-science and trail it through the 
gutter of contempt in the eyes of all scientists, 
and those two disgraces are the Out-patient 
Departments of our Hospitals, and the Sixpenny 
Dispensary Practice of our Slums. There is 
not a pin to choose between them as they at 
present exist, and the sooner they are either 
remodelled on scientific lines or swept ofi" the 
fair face of Creation, the better for mankind 
and our sense of decency. 

In both cases the times given are utterly 
inadequate for proper examination, care, or 
attention to the cases ; as for scientific study 
of them, or getting to know the habits and 
constitution of the patient, there is no attempt 
at such things. 

Think first of the absence of all the prin- 
ciples of sanitation in crowding a score or more 
of people at a given dispensary hour into the 
front room of a £20 to £30 house ; to be hailed 
out one after another at intervals into the 
consulting room, hastily catechised, hurriedly 
examined, given a bottle of medicine and sent 
away, after collecting the sixpence, to come back 
in a few days for another bottle of medicine. 
Think of the fate of the phthisical patient 
coming there habitually till he gets sick of 



OUE HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 99 

it, and sad for it, paying his sixpence and 
getting sent back to infect others in his own 
home or elsewhere ; with no help save his 
useless bottle of cough mixture. Think further 
of the danger to the score or so of people, 
including several children probably, who have 
sat for perhaps an hour with that phthisical 
patient in that close, overcrowded, stuffy room 
waiting for their golden couple of minutes 
with the doctor. Think of the poor children 
brought there affecting one another with in- 
fectious diseases as they sit. 

Was there ever such a mad scheme as placing 
unexamined diseased people cheek by jowl, and as 
closely packed as possible, for an hour or more ? 

Look next at the out-patient department of 
a big hospital and see a similar picture. It is 
true much money from the charitable may have 
been spent on glazed brick walls and encaustic 
tiles, and many of our new out-patient de- 
partments look most beautiful and gaudy ; but 
the tide of filth and infection passing through 
them is enormous, and after all a sewer is only 
a sewer, even if it be lined with glazed brick. 

There they sit, oppressed with various ills, 
or with small children ill with different com- 
plaints, gossiping with one another by the hour, 
or looking utterly bored and dull, thinking 
perhaps of their husband's comments when he 
comes home from his work and finds no meal 
cooked for him. No doctor outside has hitherto 
seen them or their children, in all probability. 



100 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

or only some sixpenny quack such as we have 
been describing ; no one knows what disease 
they are harbouring, or whether there is any- 
thing but curiosity the matter with them at 
all. An ill-assorted selection they are of the 
rag-tag and bobtail of humanity. Suddenly 
the house physician or surgeon appears on the 
scene, attended by the three or four medi.cal 
students who are his clerks or dressers, glad 
to escape from the boredom of attendance at 
the visit of the honorary physician or surgeon 
to the in-patients in the wards. Gaily these 
acolytes of the temple of Medicine scamper 
through the out-patients who have been wait- 
ing the better part of the morning, for it is 
getting near lunch-time, and in twenty minutes 
or half-an-hour the motley crowd of the morn- 
ing is dispersed. A few who are thought to 
be more serious, or more interesting, are given 
cards to see an Assistant Physician or Surgeon 
to out-patients at the attendance-hour in the 
afternoon, and return to waste more time there, 
perhaps a whole afternoon ; but the majority 
are packed off as rapidly as possible, with 
their medicine or dressings repeated for an- 
other week or fortnight ; and this, forsooth, is 
competent medical attention.^ 

To these poor people all who see them are 

1 The mode of dealing with out-patients differs somewhat 
at different hospitals; the above sketch is from the personal 
observation and experience of the author at two great teaching 
hospitals. 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 101 

doctors, though twice out of thrice they are seen 
by a clerk or dresser, and, perhaps, just as well 
attended to as if the rapid glance or shadow of 
a qualified man had fallen upon them. The 
usual crime of the out-patient department is 
the crime of the sixpenny dispensary — want 
of individual care and attention, scamping of 
medical work save for the occasional interest- 
ing case, and great wastage of public time, and 
danger of spread of infection. 

The remedy is quite obvious upon any friendly 
co-operative system between the practitioner 
outside and the hospital authorities inside. 
But without proper co-operation no remedy 
is possible. These people must be seen and 
attended to somehow, if not in their own in- 
terests, or the interests of common humanity, 
then in the interests of the other strata of the 
community. 

The question is, how is it to be done with- 
out sacrificing any one's legitimate interests, 
and most effectively on behalf of patients and 
community ? 

The system of voluntary charity is both a 
failure as regards doing the work, and defrauds 
the private practitioner of his legitimate sphere 
of work and legitimate fee. He has spent, or 
had spent for him, a large sum of money (at 
least £1000) in acquiring his professional train- 
ing, and has given five of the best years of his life 
to hard study as a student of his profession. It is 
by no means fair that he is to be sweated at his 



102 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

work or cheated out of it altogether. On the 
other hand, a large share of the required work 
can only be adequately and properly carried out 
in hospital, and these people, in the majority of 
cases, cannot pay for it. Yet the medical pro- 
fession, either inside or outside the hospital, 
ought not to be expected to undertake this 
work for nothing. Charity is charity, business 
is business, and the doctor has his living to 
make out of his profession. 

The problem, notwithstanding, is not an in- 
soluble one, provided we can only be content 
to leave charity out of it. Let charity tackle a 
problem of the right dimensions for its success- 
ful accomplishment, in doing extraneous and 
accessory things, such as endowing medical re- 
search, providing clinical laboratories, endow- 
ing research fellowships for young medical men 
in connection with the hospitals, subsidising the 
junior posts so that it is possible for men of 
brilliant mind but without private incomes to 
reach the higher hospital posts. But let charity 
leave alone routine work for the million. In the 
first place, the task is too great for such sums of 
money as can be so got together ; and, in the 
second place, simply because the thing comes by 
charity, and not as a legal right to which they 
themselves, directly or indirectly, have contri- 
buted their quota, this charity is a most de- 
moralising influence, inducing servility and 
destroying any weak moral fibre that may be 
there, instead of developing and strengthening 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 103 

it. Let our poor come to the hospital as an 
absohite legal and moral right, without any 
shadow of patronage or disgrace in it whatever, 
any more than there is in an old age pension. 

But do not leave the patient, or any other 
lay person for him, to determine when he 
ought to go to the hospital ; that is the busi- 
ness of the doctor outside, and matters must 
be so arranged that it is not to the personal 
disadvantage of the doctor to send the patient 
to the hospital when he thinks the case requires 
hospital treatment. 

This state of affairs can obviously only be 
attained by arranging, by some unified and 
national scheme of action, for the doctor to be 
paid both inside and outside the hospital for 
professional services rendered to this huge class 
of our population, and we have already seen 
that the cost to the nation would not be ex- 
cessive. 

The last defect in the present system of 
hospital services which need be described is 
that of the present mode of appointment of 
medical officers to our hospitals. The method 
varies somewhat in Voluntary Hospitals and in 
Poor Law Hospitals respectively, and we shall 
consider the two systems separately. 

The manner and terms of appointment of 
physicians and surgeons to our Voluntary Hos- 
pitals may at first sight seem a trivial subject 
compared with the more general national issues 
which have hitherto been considered, but in 



104 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

reality this question lies deep at the root of 
the whole matter. 

Because such appointments are made practi- 
cally for life — that is to say, subject to retirement 
at sixty or sixty-live years of age — and as the 
number of hospital posts is small compared with 
the number of men qualified to hold them, the 
majority of men in practice are cut off from the 
hospitals entirely. Secondly, as the modes of 
election are by no means calculated for selecting 
the best men, the service degenerates. Thirdly, 
in the most important set of all the Voluntary 
Hospitals — namely, those in which our future 
doctors obtain their medical and surgical train- 
ing — the medical school has no voice in the 
choice of the hospital staffs. To the men holding 
these appointments, however, the medical school 
is forced to hand over many of the most impor- 
tant professorships in the Faculty of Medicine, 
thus stultifying the work of the Faculty and 
reacting in a most undesirable fashion upon the 
teaching and advancement of medical know- 
ledge throughout the country. 

One great evil arising from lack of train- 
ing of a sufficient number of good operating 
surgeons for the service of the country has 
already been seen in the inordinately high fees 
claimed for surgical work. 

If a considerable number of posts at the 
voluntary and other hospitals were held for 
more limited periods, the appointments being 
made for periods of, say, five years, a work- 



OUK HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 105 

ing knowledge of surgical technique would be 
more widely spread in the medical profession. 
A similar change in the physicianships is also 
highly desirable, in order to allow more men 
to keep in living touch with medical progress. 

It is not as if the men actually holding the 
hospital posts were marked off in any way as 
a special order of medical priesthood by special 
previous training, greater intellectual endow- 
ment, or special genius or aptitude of any sort, 
from their fellows in general medical practice. 
Their being where they are is in most cases a 
matter of accident as our system of election 
is at present constituted. Our present system 
makes it essential that our future consultants 
must work for several years not merely with- 
out monetary reward, but under conditions 
which entail considerable outlay. Brains do 
not furnish the essential condition of entry to 
this highest caste of the doctor's profession ; 
quite mediocre ability gets a man there, pro- 
vided he has money and patience and can wait. 
Men with brains do sometimes storm this for- 
tress, and, by undergoing great privation, fight 
their way forward to noble success as consul- 
tants and leaders in medical progress. Such 
men are the very salt of the profession ; but, 
to say the least of it, our present mode of 
preference to hospital appointments does not 
encourage such men. 

In what manner do we usually choose the 
best physician or surgeon when there is a 



106 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

vacancy on the staff of one of our great Volun- 
tary Hospitals ? 

By hard canvassing of the members of a 
lay committee, who themselves usually know 
nothing of the relative professional abilities of 
the rival candidates, but are swayed by the 
facts of the social standing and influence of 
the candidate, or the candidate's friends. 

Fulsome testimonials as to the candidate's 
abilities are got together and printed by each 
candidate ; these are circulated, along with 
verbal embellishments, by each candidate's social 
friends amongst the electors, who are nobbled 
to vote one way or another by pressure, cajoling, 
or beseeching. 

We laugh at some of the ways of the Chinese, 
and this is our way of selecting the men who 
are to be leading physicians or surgeons in our 
great cities, and mayhap teach medical science 
to the coming generation of medical men. 

In a certain great provincial city one large 
general hospital has an electoral body of over 
one thousand memhers, nearly all laymen, who 
elect the physicians and surgeons in this way. 
At a recent election several gentlemen who 
desired the position of surgeon to the hos- 
pital had their claims considered by this huge 
electorate, and its friends in the city. With- 
out making any criticisms on what the actual 
result of the election happened to be, it might 
be suggested that a method which would have 
worked equally well, and saved enormous trouble 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 107 

and expense, would have been that of putting 
all the names of the candidates in a hat and 
drawing one out. 

It may be said that although a lay committee 
actually has the electoral power, it is swayed in 
its opinion by the medical staif of the hospital. 
This happily does occasionally save the situa- 
tion ; but in a great many cases the medical 
committee is not allowed any such influence, or 
is scared of expressing an opinion through fear 
of alienating or offending powerful laymen. 

Another great evil due to our localised systems, 
especially noticeable in the large Voluntary 
Hospitals of our gi'eat cities and towns, and 
most intensely of all in those hospitals con- 
nected with medical schools, is the continued 
inbreeding to which we are committed in ob- 
taining our supplies of consultants and teachers 
of medical science. With few honourable ex- 
ceptions, we are absolutely forced to depend on 
local supply, and there is little or no healthy 
transference from one district to another. 

Since the assistant physicians and surgeons, 
almost automatically, are advanced as vacancies 
occur to the full physicianships and surgeon- 
ships, the election to these junior posts is most 
important. At this stage the juniors have not 
yet acquired those lucrative practices which 
fasten their seniors, like limpets or barnacles 
to rocks, to one city, so that they cannot be 
transferred when vacancies occur. An offer from 
Manchester might attract a promising junior 



108 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

physician or surgeon from Liverpool, or vice versd, 
or London might interchange with either of 
these two northern cities at this free-swimming, 
larval stage in the development of the future 
consulting physician or surgeon. 

Very often the absence of any chance of 
local successions falling in, drives away most 
brilliant men, who see no chance in waiting on. 
These unlucky individuals have no opportunities 
elsewhere. Each hospital and school is a close 
corporation. Why are these things so ; why do 
not the senior physicians and surgeons tell the 
lay Hospital Committee that each post should be 
thrown genuinely open to the whole country, and 
make it their business, before each election, to 
find out the best possible man for the vacancy? 

Possibly there might be something inartistic 
in having too many stars of the first order of 
magnitude in the same constellation. 

Whatever may be the reason, the fact re- 
mains, each place has its own little coterie, 
and lives in the light of its own little pre- 
judices ; there is no national correlation, no 
cohesion, nothing comparable to anything so 
high as the nervous development of the mollusc, 
in our whole system of hospitals, or the appoint- 
ments to all their important posts. 

This vicious principle invades even our Uni- 
versities. Here we see, on the one hand, in the 
scientific posts, the stimulating efi'ect on the 
men and on the institution of having the whole 
nation to select from when a new appointment 



OUE HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 109 

is to be made ; on the other hand, when we 
turn to the important chairs of the final studies 
in the medical faculty, we find no such freedom 
and no such stimulus. The Universities are 
practically forced to appoint to important pro- 
fessorships those physicians and surgeons who 
have been appointed by the local lay committees 
of the hospitals as members of the hospital staif. 

These men need have contributed little or 
nothing to our knowledge of any branch of 
medicine or surgery ; and indeed, in most cases, 
as a matter of fact, they have made no such 
contributions — they have been too busy making 
guineas instead. Medicine and surgery have 
become articles of trade and commerce, and the 
most successful and most highly honoured con- 
sultant is he who makes most thousands a year. 

Not even in our Universities and seats of 
medical learning can we stem this tide of the 
power of the almighty guinea, and show our 
appreciation of scientific devotion and deserts 
by appointing men famous for their original 
work to our University posts. 

The important general subjects of the purely 
medical curriculum are medicine, surgery, mid- 
wifery and gynaecology, and therapeutics. To 
which of these, or any of the special branches of 
them, can a man be appointed who is not a local 
consultant in the same city as the University ? 
The candidate may not have contributed one 
shred to the world's store of knowledge of his 
subject, yet merely because he is a local man, 



110 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

and has taught the alphabet of medicine to 
local students — at great profit to himself, be it 
added, from the consultation fees it has brought 
him — he is entitled to become the University pro- 
fessor and the local great expert of his subject. 
Tartarin of Tarascon pales into insignificance 
before the local glory of the local professor of 
a medical subject in a provincial University. 

Passing by a rapid transition from this sub- 
lime subject to the manner of appointment 
at the Poor Law Hospitals, we find a much 
simpler and less elaborate scheme. 

Roughly speaking, there are two types of Poor 
Law Hospital Medical Officers. A very transi- 
tory whole-time officer, very hard-worked and 
paid £120 to £150 a year — that is why he is 
transitory. A very permanent part-time officer, 
who strongly believes in the axiom that part- 
time is much less than whole-time, who, for his 
part-time, is paid from £200 a year upward ^ — 
that is why he is permanent. 

^ In addition to his position as visitor, the part-time officer 
usually can pick up such little unconsidered trifles as Vaccina- 
tion Officer to the Workhouse, and Certifier of Pauper Lunatics. 
In this way a nominal income of £200 may readily amount to 
over £500, and the visitor usually contrives to run in addition a 
lucrative outside practice in his unemployed spare time. This 
is all according to Cocker, but does it pay the British rate- 
payer? The writer knows of more than one Poor Law Medical 
Officer, receiving £500 a year and over, who also has a large 
private practice and does not devote more than three hours in 
the day to his Poor Law work. The Local Government Board 
is supposed to inspect the work of these medical officers, and 
at its doors lies the responsibility, as the Boards of Guar- 
dians possess no powers of review or dismissal after one year's 
service. 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 111 

The part-time visiting officer is elected by the 
lay Board of Guardians, the details of election 
being much the same as set out above for elec- 
tions in voluntary hospitals. There is usually 
a spirited competition for such posts, and the 
candidate after election develops a fervid admira- 
tion for the present administration of the Poor 
Law, and is a thorough believer in Boards of 
Guardians. 

This numerous class of medical men, and a 
similar body who hold part-time posts to small 
urban and rural districts as Medical Officers of 
Health, or as outdoor medical relief Poor Law 
Officers, or Poor Law Dispensary Officers, are 
the most violent opponents of any deep-seated 
changes in the way of reform, and keep pointing 
out in the press that a little patching and press- 
ing is all that is required. 

The whole-time resident medical officers of 
the Poor Law Hospitals are quite a different 
set of men, not at all so contented with their lot 
as their official superiors, nor so impressed with 
the beneficent influences of our present Poor 
Law. For one thing, they are younger men, 
mostly just graduated, and unaccustomed to 
Workhouse ways, and youth is both sympathetic 
and fond of change. 

Also, they have not time to become truly 
enamoured of the noble service to which they 
belong. In entering it they have usually had 
no thought of continuing in it, as most young 
men who enter other public services have. 



112 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

They only want a little more hospital work 
and experience, and they know that in the 
Poorhouse Service they can get it in plenty, so 
they go to it for a brief period of six months to 
a year, just as they would to a locum. 

In fact, there is no prospect whatever for 
young men in this service as a permanency. 
Their salary never increases, there is no pro- 
motion from one place to another, and when a 
part-time visiting appointment falls vacant they 
have no claim on it, even if they have been 
there as resident for ten years. 

There is, in fact, no real Poor Law Medical 
Service ; the six hundred and forty odd Poor 
Law Unions in England and Wales are ab- 
solutely independent, have nothing to do with 
one another, and know no more of one an- 
other officially than two next-door neighbours 
in a London suburb. 

The chief products of our Poor Law system, 
in its hospitals as elsewhere, are disease, de- 
moralisation, and destitution, and those who 
talk of schemes of reconstruction destroying the 
moral fibre, self-help, and independence of the 
poor had better go and visit our Workhouses 
and learn facts as to the hopeless failure of the 
present system of repression and mismanage- 
ment, when they will probably return prepared 
to vote for some organised national method for 
dealing with the greatest national problem of 
our time. 

Until our hospital systems are organised and 



OUR HOSPITAL SYSTEMS 113 

unified and placed in bon accord with the 
medical profession outside — the latter having 
also been nationalised and set to hunt out, 
isolate, and suppress disease — we may expect 
to continue to be ravaged by infection. But 
remember that science has already taught us 
how most diseases may be conquered, when 
we are ready to take concerted action for the 
common weal. 



H 



CHAPTER V 

THE WARFARE WITH THE GREAT WHITE 
PLAGUE 

A DISEASE which claims seventy-five thousand 
victims every year, year in, year out, in these 
Islands of ours alone, is too all-pervading to 
have escaped incidental mentioning in these 
pages already. But, when our design is to 
disclose a feasible, practical method, not of any 
inordinate cost, whereby this horrible plague 
can be eradicated in a period of not more 
than ten years, the subject is assuredly worth 
a chapter to itself. 

When the great bacteriologist who has 
recently been taken from us, Robert Koch, 
made the memorable discovery of the bacillus of 
tuberculosis, and proved that this organism was 
the one and only cause of the disease known as 
consumption or phthisis, one of the greatest 
advances of modern medicine commenced, and 
one fraught with the highest advantage for 
mankind. 

Diseases rapidly became correlated and under- 
stood which before were thought to be quite 
distinct and separate entities. Consumption 
was soon realised to be due entirely to the 

114 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 115 

ravages of this organism in the lung substance, 
a favourite elective seat for its growth in the 
body, and the same organism growing in the 
skin was found to be the cause of the dreadfully 
disfiguring and intractable disease known as 
lupus. A very common condition, due to decay 
in the substance of bones, giving rise, according 
to its situation, to caries of the spine, to hip- 
joint disease, or to chronic disease of the other 
joints, was found also to be tuberculosis. A 
malady, commonest in children, but occurring 
also in adults, and known as tabes meseiitericay 
or consumption of the bowel, was definitely 
tracked to its source and again shown to be 
caused by the same microscopic organism. One 
common form of a rapidly fatal inflammatory 
condition of the lining membrane of the brain, 
known as meningitis, was also traced to that 
same ubiquitous microbe which Koch's genius 
had discovered to be the one and only cause of 
consumption of the lungs. 

The changes caused by the growth of this 
organism vary in appearance to the naked eye, 
according to the seat of its growth in the body, 
and this had put off" the track earlier pathologists 
or morbid anatomists, for in those days medical 
science revolved around anatomy. 

Not to go on multiplying examples, we can 
easily see how this unifying and vivifying 
discovery cast a flood of light into many dark 
corners. 

The first essential in battling with disease is 



116 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

to discover the cause of it. It is necessary to 
know who your enemy is, and where he is, before 
you can very efficiently strike him; and when 
you do know that, the next thing is to hit him 
before he hits you, or is in possession of your 
fortress. It is not necessary to put a bullet 
into each of the enemy's soldiers to win the 
fight ; medication which works on this plan 
too often kills all the friendly soldiers at the 
same time. 

The location of the enemy by Koch's discovery 
has opened the way to rational methods of 
attack upon all forms of tubercular disease, 
making it possible to give sound advice as to 
treatment and prevention, and it is largely due 
to this good influence that the death-rate from 
pulmonary tuberculosis has fallen so much in 
recent years, that so many less visages are 
scarred and disfigured by lupus than formerly, 
and that cripples with stiff and useless joints, 
curved spines, or absent limbs are so much rarer 
than before. Conservative surgery, as well as 
conservative medicine, owes much to Koch's 
great discovery. 

The great disappointment of all the world, 
and for many hundreds of thousands despair, 
which followed the failure of Koch's tuberculin 
as a remedial agent for the individual infected 
with consumption, dimmed in the eyes of the 
lay world the lustre of Koch's achievement, and 
robbed him in the public gaze of that effulgence 
of glory which ought then to have been, and 



THE GKEAT WHITE PLAGUE 117 

must henceforward for all time be his, for the 
discovery of the organism of the disease. 

This discovery has already saved hundreds of 
thousands of lives, and, as the years pass away, 
will go on saving, and still saving, throughout 
the coming centuries. 

Thanks to Koch, we know, beyond cavil or 
perchance, that tuberculosis in all its forms, 
is an infectious disease, like smallpox and 
typhoid and typhus fever, and, like them, can 
be subjected and held in thrall. 

The individual knows now, what he could 
never be told before, that no one born into this 
world of ours need die of consumption because 
his father or mother died from it. In fact, if 
he is already uninfected, his chance of escape 
is as good as that of any other individual. 
There is no immunity against consumption, 
and, apart from greater chances of infection 
and want of resistance in the poorer classes, 
no predisposition has been clearly proven. 

As far as the national aspects of the problem 
are concerned, we are the absolute masters of 
our own destinies. If we, as a nation, are pre- 
pared to take action, there need be no tuber- 
culosis throughout the length and breadth of 
the land within ten years' time. Any sporadic 
or chance case turning up after that time can 
be controlled as easily as we now control small- 
pox or typhus fever, and we do not even re- 
quire vaccination of everybody to secure this 
consummation. 



118 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

This is no fairy tale, or dream of imagination ; 
it is a definite scientific result, which our pre- 
sent knowledge gives assurance would inevitably 
follow an equally definite scientific course which 
is absolutely possible to carry out. 

Our training in medicine and methods of 
studying medical science has given our minds 
such a bias that it is our most deeply rooted 
conviction that the first thing we must do is to 
find a cure for each disease. All our study of 
causation, and our main conceptions as to the 
use and value of all those sciences allied to 
medicine, are grouped around this most funda- 
mentally erroneous dogma that our main object 
is to cure disease, and to find out cures at all 
hazards. We are fundamentally and by nature 
" medicine men " as assuredly as were witches, 
charmers, exorcists, and barber- leeches in the 
old days, and as are all cow-doctors, herbalists, 
faith-healers, and quack-medicine-vendors in our 
own days. 

The public has been brought up on it all, 
far more than it has on its mothers' milk, and 
the medical profession caters for this depraved 
appetite for drugs and charms, and panders to 
it everywhere. 

The patient wants a drug or a rub ; or a 
plaster or an ointment ; or a pill or a powder ; 
or an injection or a snuff; or a gargle or some- 
thing else ; anything to get the disease exorcised 
out of him. But he will not pay, even in taxes, 
to have the disease kept away from him ; nor 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 119 

take the trouble to avoid it, when he is told how 
to do so. 

How we misread and misapply the lessons of 
Nature here, in giving all care to the individual 
and neglecting the species ! Nature never does 
this — her care is for the species; there she is 
most careful ; as to the individual, she is a very 
prodigal. Would it not be worth while to copy 
this example, and save the species from tuber- 
culosis by improving the environment ? 

Only a small percentage of the individuals 
already attacked can be saved as we work at pre- 
sent ; that percentage can be much increased, and 
in addition infection of new cases can be stopped, 
if we at once stop working on the individual treat- 
ment lines, and start working on species lines. 

In order that the tremendous force of this 
may be felt, it may be reiterated that of the 
present population of these Islands, not more 
than one individual in two hundred to three 
hundred at the present identical moment (as 
you read this) is suffering from tuberculosis, or 
need die of tuberculosis ; but as we are going 
on, and unless something is done to arrest it, 
one adult individual out of every seven is going 
to die from tuberculosis.^ 

* According to the Decennial Report (1891-1900) of the 
Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages, 1908, Pt, 2, 
p. xci.. eleven per cent, of aW deaths, or one in mwe, are due to tuber- 
culosis. If allowance be made for our great infantile death-rate, 
the death-rate from tuberculosis of all adults rises to about one 
in seven. In males, engaged in occupations, between the ages of 
fifteen and sixty-five, the rate for consumption alone rises in some 
trades to over one in three dying from all causes. 



120 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

The statement has been made above that 
the failure of Koch's tuberculin as a treatment 
caused bitter disappointment. Koch undoubt- 
edly made a mistake by his haste ; all geniuses 
do make mistakes, and the great German 
scientist was no exception. That man who 
has never made a mistake has never done 
much in the World, or for the World. We, 
also, have all been making mistakes over this 
tuberculin busifiess ; many unavailing tears have 
been shed over it ; let us take a different look 
at the problem. 

Had Koch's tuberculin been as great a suc- 
cess as any specific cure in the whole range of 
modern medicine, tuberculosis would have been 
just as rampant as it is to-day. One cannot 
suppress disease by discovering specific cures. 

In fact, had Koch's tuberculin been a suc- 
cess, we should probably be suffering now from 
more prevalence of tuberculosis, simply because 
we should have still more neglected precau- 
tionary and preventive measures than we have 
done. Let us not pass too hurriedly away 
from the above remarkable statement, that the 
discovery of specific remedies will not remove 
diseases but rather tend to perpetuate them. 
It sounds like a dangerous heresy, and is there- 
fore worthy of some examination. 

Here is another statement more remarkable 
still : — The possession of a most powerful 
specific remedy for a given disease, with our 
present-day modes of practice and employing 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 121 

it, may produce little or no effect upon the 
death-rate from the disease. 

If these two statements can be proven to 
be true, surely it is worth while to discover 
what is wrong, and if possible right the wrong, 
otherwise there is little purpose going on dis- 
covering remedies. 

It is proposed now to consider the effects of 
the best and universally acknowledged specific 
remedies we possess in relationship to the above 
statements. 

The simplest example to commence with is 
the action of iron in all forms in the type of 
anaemia known as chlorosis. Here we have to 
do with a specific remedy of such undoubted 
power that there are not more than two or 
three others such in the whole range of medi- 
cine. But does the knowledge of this specific 
remedy in the least degree diminish the incid- 
ence of chlorosis, or remove the plague from our 
midst ? Not in the least ; a very brief common- 
sense consideration of the problem shows that 
it cannot do so. An attack of chlorosis can 
be cut short in a given individual by treatment 
with iron salts, and if the individual changes 
her course of living, and goes on upon new 
hygienic conditions of diet and life and en- 
vironment, the disease can be kept in most 
cases from recurring. 

The specific remedy is good for the individual, 
but it has absolutely no effect upon the plague 
of the disease amongst the species. There will 



122 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

not be one case the less of chlorosis occurring 
for all the iron treatment in the world. 

Chlorosis has considerably abated in recent 
years, but we have to search for the cause of 
this good result in other things than any treat- 
ment by a specific. 

While chlorosis is sometimes seen in rapidly 
growing or neurotic girls of the better classes, 
it is essentially a disease of hard- worked, badly 
housed, and badly nourished girls and young 
women, of the working classes. 

It is a disease of the domestic servant and 
shop-girl, and indoor female worker. To quote 
an eminent authority, Professor Osier: ''The 
disease is most common among the ill-fed, 
overworked girls of large towns, who are 
confined all day in close, badly lighted rooms, 
or have to do much stair climbing." . . . 
" Lack of proper exercise and of fresh air, and 
the use of improper food, are important factors." 

Now, how can any specific remedy, however 
beneficial to the individual, interfere with the 
vicious factors which produce chlorosis, followed 
by all the other fatal maladies, such as heart 
affections and tuberculosis, to which the en- 
feebled condition gives the inlet. 

Not all the remedies of the most distinguished 
physician or most notorious nostrum-vendor can 
touch this problem. All the Blaud's pills ever 
manufactured, and the many millions of purga- 
tive Pink Pills for Pale People, might as well 
be poured down the sink, as far as stopping the 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 123 

attack of this disease on the young womanhood 
of the community is concerned. 

This type of anaemia is abating because we 
are stopping the building of cellar and base- 
ment kitchens; the product of the days of 
snobs, when we could not live on the same 
floor as our maid -servants, and they had to 
run to underground burrows when we did not 
require their attentions. The lot of the shop- 
girl and workroom-girl has also improved. The 
State insists on workshops being ventilated and 
above-ground, and proper hours being kept. 
Still better things may be expected when 
'*living-in" is made illegal. It takes no pro- 
fessional training to see which treatment is 
better for removing the disease chlorosis : treat- 
ment by drugs, or treatment by hygiene. 

The iron treatment, combined with other 
things, is excellent for a chlorotic case ; but 
there will not be one case less of chlorosis on 
account of it in a thousand years ; on the other 
hand, improved conditions of living, working, 
and feeding have saved thousands from chloro- 
sis, and will continue to do so still more as we 
become more civilised. 

The next disease which we shall take as an 
example of this principle is one with which 
masses of the population of this country are 
riddled and destroyed in health and life itself. 
Like tuberculosis, it forms not one disease but 
many in its varying manifestations, and directly 
and indirectly, under many fanciful names, it 



124 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

kills nearly as many as tuberculosis. Like tuber- 
culosis, it is an infectious disease, only pos- 
sible of propagation because infected individuals 
by the tens of thousands exist in our midst, and 
no attempt whatever is made to isolate them or 
prevent them from transmitting the disease to 
others. Unlike the victims of phthisis, these 
diseased individuals know full well that they 
are passing on the contagion of this dread dis- 
ease to their fellows ; yet the community allows 
this criminality, this villainy, to go on without 
moving hand or foot to prevent it. 

The most ghastly and fatal of our nervous 
diseases, including locomotor ataxy or tabes 
dorsalis, and ge7ieral paresis or general paraly- 
sis of the insane, have now been shown to be 
due to the infective organism which is the only 
cause of this disease, that is blighting the lives 
of thousands of us. 

Would to Heaven that the false sentiment- 
ality of the age could be thrown to the winds, 
and this loathsome disease attacked as it ought 
to be by the community ! If we could only 
teach people that the Sin and the Crime consists 
not in speaking of this disease, but in conceal- 
ing it and passing it on to those who are most 
innocent of all oifence ! 

There is one way only in which we can save 
ourselves and our children and our children's 
children from this curse, and that is the same 
identical way in which we can rid ourselves of 
tuberculosis. They are both infectious diseases 



THE GEE AT WHITE PLAGUE 125 

of chronic type, and there is one way, and but 
one, by which a civilised country can rid itself 
of them. In a single sentence, that way is, 
a National Medical Service, with compulsory 
powers of segregation of the unhealthy from 
the healthy. 

In our present condition of education and 
civilisation one dare not, however, even men- 
tion the name of this disease in a book intended 
for general readers. So it shall be spoken of 
here by a name in fairly general use by medical 
men, viz., as '' specific disease." The name suits 
the present purpose well, since it indicates that 
there is a '' specific " treatment for this disease, 
which makes it the " specific disease "^ar excel- 
lence. 

The medical profession has known for very 
many years two drugs which are specifics for 
this " specific disease " at diff'erent stages. 
Treatment by mercury or its compounds in the 
earlier stages is a definite cure nearly always 
successful when properly and adequately applied ; 
and similarly a substance called the iodide of 
potassium is specific in removing certain mani- 
festations of the disease, which occur several 
years later in improperly treated cases. Here, 
then, if anywhere in all medicine, is a disease 
with its cure found out and well known. 

If disease can be eradicated by finding out a 
cure for it, this disease ought to be eradicable. 
What are the facts? The disease is as wide- 
spread as ever, and shows no diminution. In 



126 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

out-patient or in-patient department of any 
of our hospitals, there are more patients with 
" specific disease" than with phthisis. Doctors 
in practice see and treat, by means of these 
specific cures, more cases of it than perhaps any 
other disease. They often cure it, too, as far as 
the individual who pays them is concerned ; but 
meanwhile the brand has been passed along, 
and the disease laughs at all our puny efi'orts 
with " specifics." When are we going to be 
manly enough to attack it in the only way that 
can get rid of it ? 

The next instance which may be taken to 
illustrate the principle under discussion is one 
of the most glorious triumphs of modern scien- 
tific medicine, namely, Behring's discovery of the 
antitoxin of diphtheria. 

Diphtheria kills in fatal cases by a most 
virulent poison, called a toxin, which the diph- 
theria germ produces where it grows in the 
throat, and this poison then is taken up into 
the blood and, passing round, poisons the heart 
and nervous system. The poison is most ex- 
cessively deadly, as much so as snake venom, 
so that a small patch of diphtheritic growth in 
the throat can produce enough of this chemical 
poison to poison the whole body of the patient 
and cause death. 

It is, strange to say, just this highly poisonous 
character that enables us to prepare the antidote, 
or antitoxin as it is called, because there is very 
little of the poison, and therefore it takes very 



THE GKEAT WHITE PLAGUE 127 

little of the antidote to neutralise it. In other 
diseases there are formed much larger quan- 
tities of lower grade poisons, and we cannot 
prepare or administer sufficient amounts of the 
** anti " body to neutralise them. That is why 
we cannot extend the antitoxin cure for diph- 
theria to other infectious diseases ; it has only 
been capable of extension to others, such as lock- 
jaw, for example, where the disease poison iS' a 
very intense one, acting in minute quantities. 

The diphtheria antidote, or antitoxin, is made 
by choosing out a more resistant animal against 
diphtheria, such as the horse, and injecting into 
this animal the dead bodies of the diphtheria 
organism containing plenty of the diphtheria 
poison. This sets up a chemical reaction in the 
horse's body, in which the antidote is manu- 
factured to neutralise the poison. Some excess 
of the antidote is made by the horse's body 
during this process, and this excess is present 
in the fluid part of the horse's blood. On now 
drawing off some of the horse's blood, which 
can be done almost painlessly by opening a vein 
in the neck, the horse going on quietly eating 
all the time, and by separating afterwards the 
fluid part of the horse's blood, the specific 
remedy for diphtheria is obtained, called " diph- 
theria antitoxin." 

So much by way of prefatory explanation ; 
the next point is that, by general accord of the 
medical profession throughout the whole world, 
it is agreed that this treatment is most efficient, 



128 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

and indeed specific for diphtheria. The mor- 
tality rate of cases properly treated with anti- 
toxin at an early stage is enormously less than 
that of untreated cases. 

In fact, we have a specific cure here by an 
organic or bio -chemical drug, as great as the 
two we have just discussed previously. Any- 
thing which follows is meant as no disparage- 
ment of this brilliant discovery, but merely by 
admitting the intrinsic value of diphtheria anti- 
toxin, applied properly in sufficient amount at 
the right time as a specific cure for each case 
of diphtheria, to drive home a fortiori that a 
disease cannot be eradicated by means of a cure, 
but will continue to be a plague to the com- 
munity, and will still go on destroying valuable 
lives, until a proper system of dealing with it 
is devised. 

In cases occurring in well-to-do families, 
almost as soon as the child is ill the doctor is 
sent for, and diphtheria being diagnosed, the 
antitoxic treatment is at once efficiently applied 
without waiting to take any chances as to 
whether the case is going to be a mild or a 
serious one. The consequence is an enormous 
decrease in the diphtheria death-rate in this 
class of practice. Diphtheria antitoxin is the 
sheet-anchor of the practitioner attending to 
the middle classes, and he recognises and owns 
it everywhere. 

But contrast this with what happens in the 
case of the poor. Here the child is allowed to 



THE GKEAT WHITE PLAGUE 129 

go about with its sore throat and illness for 
two or three days ; the mother may be out all 
day at work, or, failing this, may have all the 
work at home to do for her own large family, 
husband, and probably lodgers; all the cook- 
ing, washing, and cleaning to do for the entire 
household. Little wonder that each child can- 
not receive as much care and attention as in 
a middle-class family. One of the children 
goes about with a sore throat, supposed to be 
an ordinary sore throat of a rather bad type. 
This throat is treated with domestic remedies 
and according to the advice of all and sundry 
of the neighbour women, who come with their 
children in arms, and at their knee, to look at 
this mysterious sore throat and, incidentally, get 
their children infected. 

Probably for a day or two the child goes to 
school with " only a sore throat," giving rise 
to a crop of bad sore throats in the neighbour- 
hood. Finally the poison of the diphtheria 
germ, circulating in the blood, makes the child 
so ill that at last a doctor is sent for, who 
diagnoses diphtheria, and may at once give 
"antitoxin" (it is necessarily a very expensive 
substance, from its mode of preparation), or may 
notify the case and have it removed to a muni- 
cipal infectious disease hospital, when at last 
it gets its first dose of antitoxin.^ It is obvious 

^ No antitoxin is allowed in most Poor Law Infirmaries, to 
the many cases of diphtheria treated there. See Poor Law 
Commission Keport. 

I 



130 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

that the poison has a long start of the anti- 
dote, and it is little wonder, since the large 
majority of cases of diphtheria in the country 
are treated in this latter way, that the death- 
rate from diphtheria has only slightly de- 
creased since the introduction of the antitoxin 
treatment. 

Our present system of administration and 
treatment of infectious diseases amongst the 
working classes is responsible for this more 
than partial failure to adequately decrease the 
death-rate from diphtheria. 

The facts of the diphtheria death-rate furnish 
the proof for the second proposition stated 
above, viz. that " the possession of a most 
powerful specific remedy for a given disease, 
ivith 0U7' present-day modes of practice and 
employing it, may produce little or no effect 
upon the death-rate from the disease." 

Here, at five-year intervals, are the total 
numbers of deaths from diphtheria (excluding 
croup) recorded annually in each year men- 
tioned in the United Kingdom. It may be 
mentioned that in the earlier years a certain 
number of cases of diphtheria were probably 
recorded as "croup" on account of less per- 
fect means of diagnosis, but this does not 
so materially vitiate the comparison as to 
destroy the proof of the principle mentioned 
above. 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 131 

Total Annual Deaths from Diphtheria in 

United Kingdom 

Year Deaths 

1881 4,292 

1886 5,017 

1891 6,147 

1896 9,987 

1901 10,013 

1906 7,258 

So much for the death-rate; now as to the 
incidence of the disease, which is the impor- 
tant criterion on our scientific methods, and 
that which matters as far as the health of the 
race is concerned. Here, so far as statistics 
can be found, there is no diminution whatever. 
Nor, if we will only look at the problem in a 
philosophical and logical way, can there be 
any reasonable expectation of any decrease. 
Granting that a specific remedy can cut short 
an attack and save an individual patient, and 
that so, when we learn to apply our remedy 
all round, and at the proper time, and in the 
proper way, the death-rate may and must fall ; 
yet this has nothing to do with the incidence 
of fresh cases unless the specific remedy cuts 
out the disease before it is infectious, and that 
is a very long cry from where we stand. During 
the days when the diphtheritic child is going 
to school; when it is being doctored by the 
mother in the midst of its brothers and sisters, 
in^a two or three room tenement, and sleeping 
with some of them in the same bed at night ; 



132 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

when it is being visited and prescribed for by the 
neighbour wives accompanied by their children, 
who try to see into its throat at the same time 
as the mothers ; during all this time where does 
the specific remedy come into the problem ? 

Until our united wisdom discovers some way 
of removing children suifering from diphtheria 
to isolation conditions at once without waiting 
till the case is brought in the present orthodox 
way under the notice of the doctor, children are 
going to continue dying of dijohtheria hy the 
thousand. When we do find out how to do 
our work, then Behring's discovery will help us 
to cure the individual case from slum as at pre- 
sent in villa, and more rapidly to eradicate the 
disease ; till then, the big death-roll continues. 

The most illustrative case of all is that with 
which we shall conclude our examination of 
medication versus hygiene in the warfare with 
disease. The subject is almost as fascinating 
as a romance in its entrancing interest ; it is 
the story of the combat of modern science with 
malaria. 

Fortunately for the inhabitants of the United 
Kingdom, our well-drained soil and climatic 
conditions at present preserve us free from the 
ague or malaria ; although in earlier days it was 
common enough in the Fen Country. In other 
regions of the earth, over extensive areas, it 
attacks millions of people and does enormous 
damage, not only by the great death-roll directly 
due to the disease itself, but by the lowering of 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 133 

vitality induced by repeated attacks so producing 
continually ill-health and diminished resistance 
to other diseases. In ancient days malaria was 
one of the most prominent diseases amidst 
the Romans, and probably did much to sap 
the vigour and physique of that dominant 
race towards its decline. Malaria is still the 
scourge of modern Italy; hundreds of thou- 
sands of the inhabitants of the United States 
of America are afflicted by it ; it has earned for 
West Africa the appellation of " the white man's 
grave " ; and thousands of the natives of India 
die annually directly from its ravages. 

Yet this is the disease to which we have 
known a specific, in quinine, for the past two 
hundred and seventy years. 

A South American Indian used Cinchona, or 
Jesuits' bark, to cure a Jesuit missionary pros- 
trated by fever. The same bark was used as 
a cure for the Countess of Cinchon in 1638. 
Afterwards the Jesuit brotherhood disseminated 
a knowledge of its virtues throughout Europe. 

Long researches, into the details of which we 
cannot here enter, laid bare the fact that this 
activity of the bark was due to a substance 
contained in it called quhmie. This substance 
forms beautiful white salts with certain acids, 
and nowadays these salts are isolated in large 
quantities and used medicinally in this country, 
and exported abroad to malaria-ridden countries 
such as India and West and Central Africa. 
Small amounts of this active principle, quinine, 



134 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

can be made to take the place of very much 
greater quantities of bark extract, and in the 
form of powder and tablets, quinine is an essen- 
tial in all expeditions for exploration, settlement, 
or sport undertaken by white men in the tropics, 
and in all tropical and sub-tropical colonies or 
stations inhabited by white men. 

For most ordinary attacks of malaria, quinine 
is an absolute specific ; but with prolonged 
exposure to infection and recurrent attacks it 
loses its power, and there are some cases espe- 
cially resistant to it. It may, however, be 
placed amongst the four or five ti^ue specifics 
known to medicine. 

All this progress and discovery of the specific 
remedy had been realised purely empirically, 
without any real experimental knowledge having 
been obtained, apart from theorising, as to how 
malaria was caused. We shall now trace out 
in brief outline how the cause of malaria was 
discovered ; how man was shown to become 
infected by a peculiar and interesting agent, 
and how this discovery, by showing the rational 
way to avoid infection, has almost banished 
malaria from districts where it was a veritable 
scourge. 

The name of the disease, malaria, shows that 
it was early associated in men's minds with 
bad air ; for centuries it was believed to be due 
to ** miasmata " or stagnant vapours arising from 
the marshes. But it has remained for the 
scientific work of the experimental medicine 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 135 

of the immediate past generation to clear up 
this riddle of the ages as to the true origin and 
nature of malarial fever. 

The most remarkable symptom of the disease 
which puzzled the physicians for centuries, 
namely, the ordered sequence of events in each 
attack, first became capable of being understood 
when the scientific work had laid bare the true 
causation of the disease. 

The characteristic symptom of malarial fever 
is the onset at regular intervals of time of acute 
attacks, each with a rhythmic sequence of events, 
at regular periods. Between these attacks the 
patient is fairly well, though somewhat ex- 
hausted. 

In each attack there is a cold stage, a hot 
stage, and then a stage of excessive perspira- 
tion followed by relief from pain and other 
symptoms. There is no real drop in body 
temperature when the patient is complaining 
of cold, but rather a rise, yet the patient feels 
intensely cold ; the teeth chatter, and he shivers 
at intervals most violently ; the skin is shrivelled 
and the face and hands blue ; there are agonis- 
ing pains in the back and limbs. 

After a variable period up to three hours, this 
phase is succeeded rapidly by the hot stage, 
in which the face becomes flushed, but as yet 
there is no perspiration ; there is racking head- 
ache, and sometimes delirium, and the patient 
feels restless and burning hot all over. This 
agonising stage lasts from one to four or five 



136 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

hours, when a blessed relief comes with the 
sweating stage, in which the patient loses the 
severe pain and becomes tired and sleepy, tem- 
perature falls, and pulse and respiration slack 
off as the attack dies down. 

The explanation of this sequence was given 
when Laveran, a French observer, discovered 
that malaria was due to a minute organism 
existing in the blood and undergoing a life- 
cycle of changes corresponding in its time 
period to these rhythmic onsets of fever. 

Each generation of this blood parasite dis- 
covered by Laveran bursts out, or spores, at a 
certain time, and this it is which causes the 
malarial attack. The next malarial attack 
occurs when the next sporing or swarming 
occurs, again discharging poison into the blood. 

The blood normally contains, suspended in its 
fluid, immense numbers of little bodies called 
red blood corpuscles, and it is in these blood 
corpuscles that Laveran's parasites live and 
grow. At a certain stage they break the cor- 
puscles up simultaneously, so destroying a cer- 
tain percentage of the patient's blood, and also 
carrying out poisonous substances into the cir- 
culation. Then there is an attack. At the 
same time the living parasitic spores so set 
free begin to enter fresh corpuscles of the 
blood, and start a new cycle, the consumma- 
tion of which is a fresh outbreak and a fresh 
attack, and so the cycle continues to be re- 
peated. 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 137 

The remainder of the problem, although 
strongly reminiscent of King George the Third 
and a simple problem of cookery connected 
with apple dumplings, defeated the best efforts 
of scientists for many years. With its solu- 
tion came the first practical victories in the 
warfare with malaria. The still unsolved part 
of the puzzle was how the malarial parasite of 
Laveran got into the blood-corpuscles, and what 
was the connection with the marshes. 

Two British observers have shared the honour 
of supplying this portion of the history in quite 
recent years, the original suggestion being made 
by Sir Patrick Manson, and the patient and 
brilliant work of Ronald Eoss supplying the 
accurate proof. The most carefully elaborated 
work of Eoss demonstrated that the above- 
mentioned sporulating cycle occurring in human 
blood did not form the complete life-cycle of 
the parasite, but had to be refreshed and sup- 
plemented after a certain number of generations, 
by a sexual cycle, according to a very well- 
known law for many lowly animal organisms. 

This second cycle was shown by Eoss to 
occur in the stomachs of certain species of 
mosquitoes of a particular genus called Ano- 
pheles, which breeds in the marshes and small 
ponds and puddles near malaria-ridden districts. 
Many species of mosquito are quite harmless, 
being unsuitable for this refreshing of the 
strain of parasite, but a particular species of 
mosquito of this genus Anopheles was examined 



138 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

at different periods, after feeding on malarial 
blood, by Ross, and the mosquito was found 
to develop this special cycle of the malarial 
parasite in glands of the stomach. 

It was shown that a mosquito of the right 
species, a certain time after biting a patient, 
became infective, and was capable now of carry- 
ing malaria to another human being, but only 
after the parasite had undergone the necessary 
metamorphoses in the mosquito's stomach. 

The minute and careful work necessary to 
show such changes going on in the glands of 
a structure so delicate as the stomach of a 
mosquito, can be appreciated. Another point 
of view of great beauty is the exquisite bio- 
chemical adaptation in Nature which requires 
one particular breed of mosquito in order to 
provide just the proper chemical nutrition for 
the induction of this particular cycle of life 
in the malarial parasite, a cycle most essen- 
tially different from the cycle occurring in 
human blood, and giving rise to the patient's 
attacks. 

The exquisite beauty of this adaptation, from 
the bio-chemist's point of view, will be appre- 
ciated when it is stated that the, as yet unknown 
but quite certainly existent, organism of yellow- 
fever is borne by a different kind or genus of 
mosquito known as Stegomyia. 

Let us turn now to what intimately concerns 
us here, namely, the application of the reflected 
light of the successes in this problem of attack 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 139 

upon malaria to the attack on the consumption 
problem in our own country. 

The initial intention in quoting malaria was 
to show that here, where for generations one 
of the best, if not indeed the most notable, 
specifics of all medicine, had existed and been 
universally applied, the disease had still gone 
on rampantly ravaging, without abatement, the 
populaces of the countries. Quinine had been 
of very great and undeniable advantage to the 
individual, but of little or none to the race. 

Let us now carry our account of malaria one 
step farther and see how we can reap a great 
lesson for application to the huge problem of 
tuberculosis. 

It is clear, even from the short outline given 
above, that the only way, under natural con- 
ditions, in which a new individual in a malarial 
country can be stricken by malaria, is by being 
bitten by the right species of mosquito, viz. 
by the Anopheles. This is confirmed by the 
well- substantiated discovery that, marshes or no 
marshes, where there are no Anopheles mos- 
quitoes there is no malaria. The logical out- 
come is that if we can prevent people being 
bitten by these mosquitoes in any way — either 
by protecting, by mosquito netting, etc., from 
the insects, or, preferably, and more perfectly, 
by ridding the district of the disease-bearing 
Anopheles — then we simply cut off malaria. 

Let us carry in our minds here the corre- 
sponding parallel for tuberculosis; here, there 



140 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

is no intermediate thing in the way of a mos- 
quito, but it is just as true that no perso7i in this 
World gets consumption othertvise than from 
another consumptive, and if we segregate off 
consumptives by themselves, in many ways an 
easier problem and less expensive than removing 
mosquitoes from a district of country, we shall 
undoubtedly reap all those advantages which 
are about to be described in relationship to 
malaria, and in a surprisingly short period tuber- 
culosis will be almost unknown. 

Space forbids entering into the details of the 
several successful campaigns against malaria by 
mosquito destruction, the only rational method ; 
but it may be stated that in no instance where 
the somewhat difficult problems of thorough 
drainage have been solved, or removal of dwell- 
ings from the vicinity of mosquito-rearing 
swamps has been effected, has there failed of 
reaping the due reward in decrease of malaria 
and death from malarial fever; and, in some 
instances, districts which were previously deci- 
mated, such as Ismailia in Egypt, and Conakry 
on the West Coast of Africa, are now almost 
free from the scourge. 

The problem of practical sanitation is made 
somewhat lighter by the fact that the parasite- 
bearing mosquitoes do not fly far from the 
shallow pools in which they deposit their eggs, 
so that they may be swarming in a particular 
spot, and another district, a few hundred yards 
or a quarter of a mile away, may be quite free 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 141 

from them. A second factor of assistance is 
that the larvae, in order to develop farther, must 
at a certain stage reach the air at the surface of 
the water, and hence by sprinkling petroleum 
or creosote over the pools and marshes their 
development may be prevented. 

The hygienic measures indicated in fighting 
malaria are accordingly drainage and filling up 
of pools around houses, looking after cisterns 
and other water surfaces, and disinfection of 
surfaces of water by oil where removal is im- 
possible, within, say, a radius of one mile around 
a given town or community which it is desired 
to protect. 

Some towns and situations are more ideally 
placed for such treatment than others, and in 
certain test cases, where communities were 
decimated by malaria, and where surface con- 
ditions and isolation lent themselves to treat- 
ment by the above methods, the disease has 
been practically stamped out. It may be added, 
as a particularly interesting example, that in 
Central America the main obstacle to comple- 
tion of the great undertaking of the Panama 
Canal was the health of the workmen, and 
that now malaria and yellow-fever (which, as 
mentioned above, is also a mosquito -borne dis- 
ease) have been almost crushed out in this 
district by the American Medical Service, the 
work is being pushed forward to completion 
under healthy conditions. When this great 
Panama Canal is at length opened, it will be 



142 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

a united triumph for both Engineering and 
Medical Science. 

The methods to conquer tuberculosis must 
be conceived on somewhat different lines ; each 
disease has its own problems of detail, but 
essentially the rationale must be the same. 
When we know how a disease is spread, and 
that it possesses no other method of attack 
unknown to us, then we must throw all the 
strength of our Medical Service and the know- 
ledge of our science into stopping the means 
of spread, instead of supinely contenting our- 
selves with tinkering the individual. Inciden- 
tally, however, the actual victim of attack is 
given a better chance than ever before when 
our scheme is laid on these new scientific 
lines. 

Returning now to the summing up of our 
main proposition regarding specific cures for 
disease, we have demonstrated by taking the 
four best established specific cures in all medi- 
cine — ^viz. (1) iron in anaemia, (2) mercury in 
*' specific disease," (3) antitoxin in diphtheria, 
and (4) quinine in malaria — that in none of 
these cases is the race relieved from suffering 
and death by the existence of a cure for the 
individual. 

The fact, now we have found it, and proved 
it, and tested it, is worth reiterating and dinning 
into the ears of the World, so that it may awake 
from drugging itself to sleep and death. 

There is only one way given under Heaven 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 143 

by which disease can be abolished, and a finer 
and fitter race evolved, and that is by stopping 
the causes of disease, and throwing all our force 
into the resistance of its spread. If we are 
brave enough to do this, we shall, it is true, 
save millions of money every year, but we shall 
also achieve something nobler and grander than 
this which cannot be stamped upon coins of 
gold or written down on cheques or bank-notes. 

Coming now to the details of a rational 
national attack upon the disease, tuberculosis, 
we may first of all sketch what is at present 
being done in the way of attack. We possess 
certain hospitals provided by the charitable for 
consumption, and certain sanatoria in healthy 
districts, both for those who can pay and also 
for a few of those who cannot. What are these 
institutions doing to-day for the consumptive 
patient and for the community ; are our efforts 
anything like commensurate, or are we merely 
wasting time and money on a little child*s 
play? 

The orthodox position taken up by the 
medical profession and by Medical Officers of 
Health in regard to the danger of infection by 
tuberculosis, is well illustrated by the following 
extracts from the Annual Report of the Medical 
Officer of Health of a great English city. 

These extracts are quoted here, not in order 
to criticise any one person's views, but because 
they so clearly represent a widespread doctrine 



144 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

which it is thought desirable to examine care- 
fully in the public interest. 

"The susceptibility of the individual who 
inhales or swallows the bacilli varies ; constitu- 
tional predisposition, the habits, the occupation, 
the intemperance of the exposed person may 
prepare the way for it. In numberless cases 
the likelihood is that the bacillus is swallowed 
or inhaled without any ill effect." 

"It will be seen, therefore, that the consump- 
tive patient must not be always and under all 
circumstances regarded as a source of danger 
to others." 

"Forms of tuberculosis other than phthisis 
may be regarded as practically non-infectious." ^ 
" The large majority of the cases of phthisis come 
under the same category, whilst the remainder 
are infectious only under circumstances favour- 
able to infection, and have little, if any, tendency 
to spread where reasonable precautions can be 
adopted." 

It may be remarked that elsewhere it is 
stated in the same report that "A careless 
patient in bad surroundings may easily become 
a source of infection." 

The very danger of some of these statements 
lies in the fact that they are true, such as that 
" the consumptive patient must not be always 
and under all circumstances regarded as a source 
of danger to others." This is perfectly true, 

^ This statement standing alone may be accepted ; it is quoted 
in order to be able to properly quote the context. 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 145 

but stated in this way and brought to the 
attention of laymen, it may easily induce a 
false sense of security which may be of great 
danger. It may readily induce slackness of 
action in removing cases of danger, if the danger 
is taken so lightly. Any patient producing 
sputum containing tubercular germs and living 
at large in the community is a very great source 
of danger indeed, and amongst the poorer classes 
probably three cases out of four possess this 
criterion of danger. If we except a possible 
small percentage of infection carried in milk, 
all infection comes directly from other tuber- 
cular patients. After all, we are dealing with 
an infectious disease, even if it be a chronic one. 
If we could only see the patients hit by the 
infection in phthisis as we do in smallpox, the 
present order of things would not long be tole- 
rated. There is no possible doubt that they are 
hit just as much as they would be by smallpox, 
but phthisis is insidious in its onset, and so 
we blink at the cause and do not remove it. 
The statement that " In numberless cases 
the likelihood is that the bacillus is swallowed 
or inhaled without any ill effect " crystallises a 
common doctrine that all the time we are 
swallowing various deadly germs which do 
us no harm because we have a strong resist- 
ance, or immunity, as it is called. This is 
carrying the immunity doctrine to an entirely 
unwarrantable extent. There exists no clear 
evidence regarding immunity, either natural or 



146 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

acquired, in the case of phthisis. All the 
experimental evidence of the bacteriological 
laboratory lies in the opposite direction. It 
appears to be true of phthisis, as of pneumonia, 
that, instead of protecting, one attack, if any- 
thing, predisposes to another. At any rate, 
there is much evidence accumulating that num- 
bers of sanatorium cures which apparently re- 
lapse are truly re-infections with the disease. 

The evidence from thousands of autopsies has 
shown the existence of old healed tubercular 
injuries in the bodies of people dying from 
other diseases. This shows that we all pos- 
sess powers of resistance against tuberculosis, 
and that many people, if not all, are capable 
of infection with the disease ; but there is no 
clear evidence that some individuals possess 
enormous resistance and others very feeble 
powers of resistance. Repeated deaths in the 
same family do not prove this ; they only prove 
closer proximity, and hence more efficient and 
repeated infection. The Appendix at the end 
of the book on relative death-rates in different 
occupations proves this clearly ; for example, 
one printer in every three dies of phthisis, but 
only one clergyman in every twenty -six dies of 
it. Surely, such figures can only mean that the 
printer in his occupation runs, for some reason, 
about nine times as much chance of infection 
as the clergyman in his, and not that the 
clergyman's body possesses naturally ninefold 
the immunity of the printer's body. 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 147 

In any case, whatever we may believe re- 
garding immunity, this point is aside from the 
main issue, which is that there is such a great 
number of us open to infection by our fellows, 
and, under present wrong conditions, so often 
subjected to infection, that seventy-five thou- 
sand of us die every year. It matters not to 
the argument that ten times as many may be 
infected each year and recover on account of 
better resistance ; both those who die, and those 
who escape from the jaws of death, were in- 
fected by other sufi'erers, and by inhaling or 
swallowing tubercle bacilli. 

No one of any scientific authority has ever 
claimed that tubercle bacilli are to be found 
in mouth or sputum except in the case of 
individuals sufi'ering from tuberculosis. On 
what possible scientific ground, then, can the 
opinion be based that the tubercle bacillus 
can be swallowed or inhaled without any ill 
effect? 

There is no such scientific ground, and the 
present writer ventures to make the counter 
statement that in over seventy thousand cases 
every year in this country alone people die 
because they have swallowed or inhaled living 
tubercle bacilli, produced and cultured in the 
lungs of consumptive patients living or work- 
ing near them. The further statement may 
be added that each of these seventy thousand 
people induces the disease in one other person 
before he dies, and that in this way a new 



148 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

seventy thousand people are prepared for next 
year's sacrifice to this disease. 

These are facts that the inhabitants of the 
country have to deal with, and not fancies. 
There is no doubt that in the earlier stages the 
consumptive is not so dangerous as later, and 
also that the educated consumptive is less 
dangerous than the ignorant consumptive ; but 
the dreadful average is that, one with another, 
each consumptive starts a new victim on the 
road to death before he himself departs. The 
statement has all the crushing force of a mathe- 
matical demonstration : how otherwise is the 
disease kept up ? Is it done by the milk of a 
small number of tuberculous cows ? Why, then, 
not have them slaughtered at once ? Every 
tubercular animal in the country ought, of 
course, to be slaughtered at once, and perchance 
with more energy and inspection we could find 
annually a few more than we do now; but, 
surely, we do not believe that any serious per- 
centage of phthisis is carried in this way. The 
only remaining way is from one human being 
to another. 

One final criticism of the statement that the 
large majoHty of the cases of phthisis are 
practically non-infectious, whilst the remainder 
are infectious only under circumstances favour- 
able to infection, and have little if any tendency 
to spread where reasonable precautions can be 
adopted. The accuracy of this may be ques- 
tioned ; but, if true, surely the logical reply is, 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 149 

why not isolate the small minority which are 
infectious under unfavourable circumstances, or 
adopt such reasonable precautions that the 
disease loses its tendency to spread? 

These statements need not have detained 
us so long were it not that they reflect the 
current orthodox view of many people keenly 
interested in this great problem and truly 
anxious for its solution. 

One can also recognise and honour the 
kindly spirit which, on account of the attitude 
of the public towards the consumptive patient, 
tends to allay the growing feeling that it is 
unsafe to work or associate closely with the 
sufferers from this disease. 

Still, with all desire to make the lot of the 
consumptive a happier one and his life easier, 
objects which can be attained in other and 
safer ways, we must be most careful that we 
look also at the side of the case of the healthy 
members of the community, and safeguard them 
from death, and their families from destitution. 

It is necessary here that we should not let 
a weak sentimentality run away with us, and 
this public distrust of the consumptive is a most 
salutary public feeling. There is no doubt 
whatever that an operative or worker, in nearly 
all workshops and indoor occupations, who is 
at that stage of the disease that he is producing 
sputum is a real danger, and a great danger, 
to other workers all around him. To the 
personal knowledge of the writer, there are 



150 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

hundreds of such consumptive workers in tex- 
tile works, many of them weavers who suck the 
shuttles in threading them, these shuttles being 
later redistributed and reaching other workers, 
and the danger of employment of these workers 
to other workers in the same shop is enormous. 

Until some national scheme is devised, let 
workers subscribe funds to send their con- 
sumptive co-workers to sanatoria, and let them 
demand a certificate of freedom from infectivity 
before such workers are re-admitted to work in 
the shop. But it is pure folly and madness to 
keep on working beside them, and the Board 
of Trade ought to see that it is stopped. 

Workpeople ought to strike against present 
conditions, both on account of the sick people 
and on their own account. Present conditions 
consign the sick to a living death, and the 
healthy to be ready to step into the ranks of 
death in turn. 

The view that the germs of consumption are 
being swallowed daily by all of us in the dust 
from our roads without injury or infection, on 
account of our great virility and powers of 
resistance, while most comforting to the strong, 
is probably, indeed almost certainly, a pure 
myth. If it were so, that we so swallowed 
and inhaled live tuberculosis germs, the popula- 
tion of the earth would have rapidly dwindled, 
especially since the advent of the motor-car ; but 
there is no shred or tatter of scientific evidence 
for this view. The most expert bacteriologist 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 151 

would frequently fail to obtain live tuberculosis 
germs from blown road dust. It would be a 
very bad day for us all if they were present. 
The tubercular infection is usually carried round 
from man to m^n much fresher than this, and 
while it is all-important, so long as thousands of 
dangerous sputum-producing consumptives are 
allowed free in our midst, that they should 
be taught not to spit, do let us remember that 
this regulation alone is but playing at things, 
and that there are a hundred and one ways 
in which the phthisical patient passes on the 
living germs, many of them much more dan- 
gerous than spitting. 

Fortunately for us, the bacillus of tuber- 
culosis is an exceedingly delicate organism, of 
which the vitality is more readily destroyed 
than that of most of the micro-organisms of 
disease. In the laboratory it can only be gi'own 
upon special culture media, refusing to grow 
on ordinary nutrients upon which most of our 
ordinary disease-producing microbes flourish. 
It is very delicate and slow in its growth, and 
perishes readily under variations of external 
conditions. Sunlight destroys it rapidly, like 
most other bacteria, and it is nearly always 
killed by complete drying. It is hence ex- 
ceedingly probable that a great deal of con- 
sumption is borne by 7noist sputum, or by 
sputum not long exposed to air and light, from 
patient to patient. It is those brought very 
close to the consumptive, and living the same 



152 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

life as the consumptive, inhabiting the same 
small rooms, sleeping in the same bed, using 
the same vessels for eating or drinking, handling 
the same articles and the same tools, who are 
most liable to infection. 

The evidence as to non-infection of physicians 
and nurses in chest hospitals does not run 
counter to this at all. Patients live an entirely 
different life at hospital as to sanitary regime, 
reception of sputum in special vessels into 
antiseptics, washing of the hands, etc. Again, 
the nurses and doctors handle but little 
that is previously handled by the patients, 
eating utensils are thoroughly cleansed, and 
the same things are not used by nurses and 
patients. The whole life is different from the 
patient's home-life, and the relations to him 
of doctor and nurse are essentially different 
from the relations of his relatives, friends, and 
co-workers. Such evidence is worth nothing ; 
one might as well claim, because doctors and 
nurses do not contract typhoid fever from a 
patient, that in the good old days, when we 
treated typhoid as we now treat consumption, 
a typhoid patient could not infect persons in 
his neighbourhood ; and tubercular infection, 
from what we know as to the two channels 
of infection, is obviously more easily distributed 
than typhoid, which can only come from faecal 
contamination. 

The lay public probably but feebly realises 
how little is done at present by either Public 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 153 

Health Authorities or Hospital Authorities to 
stop the spread of consumption, and how little 
powers they possess to enable them to stop 
the dangerous consumptive from going forth 
unhealed to lay death-traps for the rest of the 
community. 

It is well that the matter should be set 
forth in black and white before the general 
public, and our public bodies and legislators, 
so that there may no longer be the excuse 
that "We did not know that these things 
were so." 

It may be stated at the outset, to prevent 
any misunderstanding, that no blame attaches 
to any particular person or any institution here 
given as an example or a concrete case ; the 
things portrayed below are done everywhere 
throughout the length and breadth of the land, 
and there is no legislation and no organisation 
to prevent their being done. 

Let us commence with a personal experience 
of a concrete case, the patient coming from one 
of the best and most scientifically conducted 
Consumptive Hospitals in the Kingdom — an 
institution with a fine laboratory, efficient staff, 
and all clinical facilities ; but what avail all 
these good things if the patient himself is to 
be sole arbiter and judge of when he is to 
leave hospital and cast himself forth free again 
into the great sea of humanity ? 

The case related simply came under the 
author's notice from this institution, and the 



154 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

study of that case first awakened his mind, 
and allowed him to perceive how we are every- 
where working at present, and how futile all 
our labours must be until we work differently. 
Otherwise this case was just like thousands 
of others elsewhere and everywhere. 

About two years ago, certain results obtained 
in the laboratory on exposing growths of the 
bacillus of tuberculosis to increased percentages 
of oxygen gas, whereby the germs are killed, 
suggested the experiment of causing tubercular 
patients to breathe oxygen for a considerable 
period daily. 

By the courtesy of the Staff' of the hos- 
pital, the author was placed in communication 
with a patient who came to the laboratory 
and breathed oxygen for an hour daily. The 
patient's sputum was examined regularly for 
the tubercle bacillus at intervals during the 
whole period of about six months : the result 
of the examination varied — sometimes bacilli 
were present, and sometimes they were absent. 
Between two and three months after the 
commencement of the experiment, the patient, 
who did not appear to be getting worse in 
general health, but rather better, expressed his 
intention of leaving the hospital to look for 
employment, but said that he was willing to 
continue the oxygen inhalations at the labora- 
tory until he found employment. At this time 
his sputum contained tubercle bacilli. 

Now, here is the position: a patient whose 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 155 

sputum contains the germs of a deadly infectious 
disease declares that he wishes to leave hospital 
and return to the community and to work, and 
the hospital authorities have neither the power 
by legislation, nor the accommodation in the 
way of beds, to prevent him. At the moment 
at which this patient wants to leave, he belongs 
to that great category of consumptive hospital 
patients who are returned on the hospital books 
as leaving the institution *' improved in health." 
There is no time to wait for any completeness 
of recovery in either hospital or sanatorium, for 
there are plenty more patients, forming most 
prolific tuberculosis- germ factories, distributed 
out amongst the public and waiting their turn 
for admission to the hospitals. 

Returning now to our particular patient, the 
author, being most anxious to finish his ex- 
periment, subsidised this patient for a period of 
over three months, during which time he came 
daily to the laboratory. During this period he 
was producing tuberculosis germs all the time, 
living with his people at home, and going about 
daily looking for employment, just as were 
hundreds more in the city like him. 

How under our present system could he be 
doing otherwise? He was a skilled workman 
almost out of benefit in his club, and without 
other means to support himself and his wife, 
who took in laundry work. A little money 
came occasionally from a son, a ship's steward 
in in'egular employment, who, by the bye, lived 



156 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

at home when off his ship or out of work. 
Can the reader begin to catch any glimmering 
of appreciation of how we propagate tuber- 
culosis by our present system? 

This particular patient was a person of most 
cleanly habits of person and conduct, most 
amenable to good advice for the protection of 
himself and others, as " harmless a consump- 
tive," within the meaning of the phrase, as 
could well be imagined, and who had had his 
hospital drill. He never expectorated in a 
wrongful way, even once, in the whole period. 
His habits were made the subject of careful 
watching hy the writer during the experiment. 
He had the rapidly repeated cough of the 
consumptive, and nearly always put his hand 
before his mouth when he coughed ; sometimes, 
as with every one, little particles of moisture 
were produced in coughing, and there is no 
doubt that these often reached the hand and 
infected it. He also frequently rubbed his lips 
and moustache with his hand quite uncon- 
sciously. It was quite obvious that both mouth 
and hands of this patient could convey infection 
to any one using the same things as he had 
touched with mouth or hands. 

The reader can readily construct for himself, 
by reflecting upon the many ways we come in 
contact, directly or indirectly, with our fellow- 
men, or they come in contact with our food or 
clothing or persons, how many chances there 
are, if they are infected with tuberculosis, for 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 157 

the infection being carried fresh and moist to 
us. There is, the reader may be assured, no 
need to invoke dried sputum blown up with 
road dust. Any one who for a day or two will 
just take observations, and reflect upon them, 
can prove the matter for himself, that the more 
consumptives there are about unrestrained, the 
more chance of infection there is for himself 
and all other healthy people. 

Let us take a few examples to illustrate the 
matter, not with the object of making our daily 
lives a terror, but of stirring up some sane spirit 
of objection to things as they are, and develop- 
ing strength of public opinion, which may put 
an end to the present regime. 

Suppose we take a journey by tramcar or 
train : the conductor or ticket clerk who punches 
our ticket may in the present condition of the 
law be a sputum-producing consumptive — a fair 
number of tram-conductors die of the disease 
every year ; ^ probably just before he punched 
your ticket he had his fingers in his mouth, or 
applied them to stop a cough. Having held 
your ticket in your hand, you probably soon 
after may touch your own mouth with your 
fingers — most people do at times ; it is a 
habit acquired in early infancy, and some of 
us never lose it. 

Suppose next you require some wearing ap- 

* One tramway conductor, out of every four dying, dies of 
consumption. See Appendix at end of the volume, third 
occupation given in table, p. 201. 



158 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

parel, such as a new suit of clothes. You go to 
a most respectable shop ; but the tailor sends 
the work nearly always to some sweating den 
in the slums, in the Jewish quarter of the city 
most probably, where tuberculosis is often most 
particularly rampant.^ Have you ever watched 
a sweated foreign tailor at work ? If you had, you 
would agree that if he were tubercular, and had 
tubercle bacilli in his sputum, both his hands 
and his work would soon be infected. This 
work comes home to you, respectably and neatly 
done up, and you suspect no danger. But, on 
the whole, now you think of it, would it not be 
to the public interest if all tubercular tailors 
were sent to healthy sanatoria ; would it not be 
better both for tailors and for you ? 

Let us now wade a little deeper into the 
matter and consider how food supplies are 
handled. Fortunately for our peace of mind, 
most of what happens to them is hidden from 
our eyes. Still, it is better for the problem we 
are dealing with not to hide our noses in the 
sands, so let us, for once in a way, just look at 
that small part of the process more easily visible 
to us. 

Last night the writer went into a shop and 
bought half a pound of biscuits, and watched 
them being put up. Each biscuit was touched 
by the grocer's hand as it was put in the bag. 
One biscuit fell on the floor ; it was promptly 

1 In the tailoring trade, about one in six dies of con- 
sumption. 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 159 

lifted up and put on the counter ; its fate after 
the customer left the shop remains unknown 
to him. Now suppose that grocer were ill of 
phthisis — many grocers die of phthisis every 
year^ — and just finish painting the picture for 
yourself. 

If you will watch your greengrocer as he 
handles strawberries and other fruit which you 
afterwards eat fresh without any cooking or 
other process of sterilisation — and soon, too, 
after he has handled it — you will also agree 
that a tubercular greengrocer may be a source 
of infection for others.^ 

Returning again to a little touch of personal 
experience, recently, when going upon a picnic 
in the country, an emergency supply of extra 
milk was required. A visit to a local dairy 
procured a supply, and standing at the doorway, 
one distinctly observed the dairymaid put her 
forefinger into the pan of milk and stir it around, 
to mix up cream and milk, before measuring out 
the supply. One's first impulse was to refuse 
the milk, but after all it was an accident that 
the incident had been observed. Given that the 
dairymaid was healthy and her forefinger clean, 
it did not matter so much. But milk is an 
excellent culture medium for germs, and often 
contains more than the innocent cow is respon- 
sible for. 

^ One grocer out of every eight dies of this disease. 
* The consumption death-rate for fruiterers and green- 
grocers is one in eight. 



160 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

About six years ago, the author noticed that 
a milk-carrier, who also milked the cows at the 
dairy where he was employed and then took 
round the milk in a first-class district, was 
phthisical. Being interested in the case, he 
talked with the man on his return after a 
certain period of absence, and found he had 
been a patient in hospital during the interval. 
For months this man was observed carrying 
round the milk, dispensing it at the doors, and 
growing gradually weaker and weaker with 
phthisis. This consumptive carried the milk 
round a large district until he grew so weak 
that he could carry it no longer, and a few 
weeks later he died in hospital of phthisis. 

There is no law, not even any well-defined 
public feeling, to prevent this sort of thing; 
but is it right? 

Consider next our public habits of eating 
and drinking. Men sufi'er more from tuber- 
culosis than women, and the death-rate amongst 
women is dropping far more rapidly than the 
male death-rate. There is little doubt that 
this diff'erence is due to difi*erences in habits. 
Women spend their day (apart from female 
public-works employments) more in the home ; 
they eat and drink, and come in contact with 
things outside the family circle, far less than 
men. Workmen in public workshops drink 
water or beer or other fluids often from the 
same public drinking cups and vessels. If there 
is a workman with active phthisis amongst 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 161 

them, every time he uses the common drinking 
vessel he probably sets a death-trap for the 
man who comes next after him, for the cup is 
not carefully cleansed on its rim after each 
draught. If any one doubts the possibility of 
such contagion, let him perform this experi- 
ment. Take a drink from a glass of milk and 
set it down on the table ; look then at the place 
where your lips have touched it on the rim, 
inside and outside. Suppose now that a work- 
man in a crowded shop had left a drinking cup 
like that, he being a consumptive, and now, 
without the cup being washed, another man 
came after him and drank, using the same part 
of the cup rim, would the second comer run 
no chance of infection ? 

It is interesting, to any one who may have 
the opportunity, to watch how the drinking of 
beer is carried on at the workman's side of 
the British Public House. Often a quart of 
beer is consumed by four workmen from the 
same pewter pot, the men drinking in turn. 
A beautiful, sentimental, loving-cup arrange- 
ment, the four jolly chums drinking in a com- 
munity of good fellowship. Suppose one of 
the four to have phthisis, as is often the case, 
then the cup may well be a cup of death. 
Even when drinking in common is not resorted 
to, the methods for rinsing — one can scarce 
call it cleansing — the pewter pots and glasses 
are of the most meagre description. They are 
usually passed through a sink and wiped by 



162 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

a cloth which has previously wiped many dozen 
others. 

Perhaps enough has been said to show how 
seventy-five thousand new consumptives are 
enlisted into this big battalion of disease every 
year, and we may now turn to the more cheer- 
ful subject of reform, and the stoppage of this 
enlistment. 

A complete scheme for the entire United 
Kingdom for the eradication of tuberculosis 
would cost between seven and eight million 
pounds annually for a period of five years, after 
which the cost of maintaining the disease in 
abeyance would not exceed one million pounds 
annually. As tuberculosis now costs at least 
ten millions annually in direct expenditure, and 
another twenty millions annually in indirect ex- 
penditure, the new scheme would mean a 
considerable saving even during the first ^ve 
years ; but, of course, the cost of it would have 
to come from imperial taxation instead of, as 
at present, partially from private pockets and 
partially from municipal and Poor Law boards. 

In addition to the annual expenditure in 
maintenance of the scheme for fi\e or six years 
during the period of eradication, there would 
be required a capital sum of ten millions at the 
outset for the provision of sanatoria for the 
occupation of the 100,000 actively infectious 
cases of tuberculosis, which, as we shall see 
presently, is about the number for which we 
should have to make provision. 



THE GKEAT WHITE PLAGUE 163 

This sum allows an average amount of £100 
for the provision of each bed, and as the sana- 
toria need only be temporary buildings, such a 
sum would be quite adequate. 

As this initial cost of £10,000,000 is required 
to stamp out what is an enormous annual drain 
on the nation, it is obvious that it is a charge 
which might legitimately be raised on loan, and 
would cost annually only about £300,000 to the 
whole United Kingdom. 

The annual maintenance and treatment of 
each patient in the sanatoria might be taken 
to average £60 to £70 a year, and for 100,000 
patients this amounts to six to seven million 
pounds annually at first ; but as time progressed 
this amount would rapidly drop, and at the end 
of five or six years would not amount to one 
million pounds annually. 

In casting up the expense of any general 
scheme to deal with tuberculosis, a certain sum 
is usually allotted to deal with the upkeep of 
those from whom the consumptive patient is 
removed ; but very soon when the consumptive 
is not so removed he becomes unable to work, 
and then the expense falls inevitably on the 
public for maintaining his dependents, as it also 
does on his decease. Hence, except as regards 
all but a small fraction of the expense, it already 
has to be publicly borne by the Poor Law 
Authorities, and when it is considered what a 
permanent relief from consumptives and their 
widows and orphans the eradication scheme 



164 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

provides, this charge might still be borne by 
the local authorities. It would, however borne, 
be a rapidly decreasing charge. 

The only loss of national income would be 
the wages earned by the one hundred thousand 
dangerously infective consumptives sent to the 
sanatoria; and since it is probable that fifty 
per cent, of these would be incapable of work- 
ing at all, and the remainder only capable of 
light intermittent work, and also rapidly pass- 
ing on to join the incapables, it is clear that 
the loss on this score would be small, and soon 
balanced by the thousands saved from infection 
and remaining sound, fit citizens, capable of 
good work. 

Summing up, then, on this matter of expense, 
we find that the annual expenditure for con- 
sumption eradication would be three hundred 
thousand for interest on cost of erection of 
sanatoria to accommodate the patients, and 
seven millions initially, dropping within five 
to six years to one million annually, for feed- 
ing and attending to the patients. The total 
amount is less than eight millions a year, even 
at the outset, and for this sum a disease which 
now costs the nation at least thirty millions a 
year can be eradicated with scientific certainty 
within a period of ten years. 

The whole of the burden of the thirty millions 
would not, of course, drop away during the ten 
years of eradication, because part of that load 
is in the form of inherited charges left by 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 165 

departed consumptives. But even within the 
ten years, the thousands of useful productive 
lives spared, the decrease in expensive living 
consumptives, and the commencing decline in 
number of widows and orphans to be supported, 
would be more than enough to counterbalance 
the money directly spent in eradication, and if 
a careful account of expenditure and saving 
could be kept for the ten years, the national 
riches would probably show an increase of 
several millions. 

The cost for tuberculosis eradication would 
be considerably diminished, and the period for 
the consummation of effect decreased, if at the 
same time the National Health Service could be 
established ; but even under our present system, 
provided a law for compulsory notification and 
segregation could be brought into action, the 
disease could be efficiently stamped out. 

Without a fairly complete separation of in- 
fective consumptives, however, no progress of 
any kind is possible ; therein lies the solution 
of the problem. 

The year 1908 is the most recent for which 
statistics of the United Kingdom can be ob- 
tained. That year was the lowest recorded for 
tuberculosis, and the death-roll for the three 
kingdoms for tuberculosis of all kinds amounts 
to somewhat over seventy-four thousand per- 
sons ; of these deaths, just over fifty-six thou- 
sand (56,080) arose from phthisis. 

Now, although all of the seventy-four thou- 



166 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

sand received their illnesses infectively, and our 
scheme, therefore, will automatically stop all 
these cases of other forms of tuberculosis, caus- 
ing eighteen thousand deaths annually, when 
we stop pulmonary tuberculosis, yet these forms 
themselves are practically not infective towards 
healthy people. They arise from smaller num- 
bers of bacilli, buried deep in the bones and 
elsewhere ; there is no sputum containing the 
infection, and hence we do not need to separate 
these cases. 

This considerably reduces the magnitude of 
our task, and accordingly we turn to the prob- 
lem of the isolation of the cases of pulmo- 
nary consumption, yielding the 56,080 victims 
annually. 

The first question that arises is whether it 
is necessary to segregate all the cases giving 
these fifty-six thousand annual deaths, or if 
some cases of pulmonary phthisis at certain 
stages are harmless. 

The answer to this question is important, 
and must be carefully considered in its proper 
setting. No exceptions must be made which 
are of danger to the healthy community. No 
matter what the rank or condition of the victim 
of pulmonary consumption, care must be taken 
that he does not sow around, from his infected 
sputum, the seeds of death in the ways re- 
counted above. There must be one law for 
rich and poor in this matter; although the 
burthen on the nation may be somewhat relieved 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 167 

by allowing the patient who can pay to do so, 
and to be treated in a separate sanatorium 
under the inspection and control of the State. 

The one vital criterion which must be main- 
tained is that any patient producing bacilli- 
laden sputum must live a life apart from the 
nation in all concerns which may bear in- 
fection. He must no longer eat, drink, nor 
handle, with vessels or implements used in 
turn by the healthy; he must no longer ride 
in public conveyances nor go into public build- 
ings ; he must eat apart, sleep apart, and work 
apart from the rest of the community. In 
exchange, we must provide him with good 
food, clothing, and residence, in the most 
healthy surroundings, and attend to his de- 
pendents during the period of his separation. 
By this procedure, the consumptive himself 
gains his first real chance of recovery. He 
is put, to begin with, under conditions of en- 
vironment, and a regime of living, which pro- 
cure him his best chance of recovery. Then, 
when the disease in his lungs does become 
arrested, the sputum-producing areas having 
dried up, and he is now no longer a source of 
danger, he is turned out into a world cleared 
of the tubercle bacillus, where it is almost 
impossible for him to be re-infected and com- 
mence again the descent to the valley of the 
shadow of death. He has, moreover, the 
satisfaction that he is no longer dragging 
down with him his wife and family, or others 



168 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

dependent on him, or his co-mates and co- 
workers in workshop and home. 

The next step is to consider the total number 
of victims of pulmonary disease for whom it 
would be necessary so to provide. 

This figure is an exceedingly difficult one 
to obtain, because there has hitherto been no 
compulsory notification of phthisis as there is 
of most of the acute infectious diseases. 

Knowing as we do the number of annual 
deaths from phthisis, if we could in any way 
get at the average duration of the dangerous 
period of a case, then by multiplying these 
two factors we could obtain the number of 
dangerous cases co-existing at any given time. 
For example, did each case last for two years 
in a dangerous sputum-producing condition, 
then, with 56,000 deaths annually, there would 
be 56,000x2 = 112,000 of such cases at any 
given time. The average duration, however, 
is precisely what is so difficult to find out ; 
some cases of pulmonary phthisis last only a 
few months, while others drag on slowly for 
many years. 

The very slow cases are, however, often so 
slumbering that little sputum is produced, and 
many of these cases would probably recover 
altogether were they not, under our present 
conditions, reinfected all the time with fresh 
strains of the infection. 

There are accordingly some pulmonary cases 
which, like the non-pulmonary ones, are almost 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 169 

non-infective, and these, at any rate while the 
first great strain is on the new system, might 
be left free. The criterion of freedom should 
not, however, be the superior surroundings of 
the patient, more careful nursing, or better edu- 
cation, and better habits of the consumptive. 
These things are too dangerous in the loop- 
holes they leave to the patient and his friends, 
and private influences. The State test to be 
passed by each and every consumptive should 
be that after a period of observation it is 
found that he, or she, is either no longer 
producing any sputum, or a minimal amount 
which has been carefully examined more than 
once, and has been passed by a competent 
bacteriological authority as being at the limit 
compatible with public safety under definite 
regulations. 

Until the well-to-do consumptive is in this 
condition he is much better in a sanatorium, 
both for himself and the public, and when at 
length he comes forth, if he has conquered 
in his fight with his enemy, he comes forth 
into a fresh clean World, where he stands no 
chance of re-infection. In fact, that country 
which first puts into operation this system may 
have to look out within two or three years 
later for an invasion of wealthy consump- 
tives. The means of guarding from invasion 
by the disease at our ports will be considered 
later. 

In a book recently published by Latham 



170 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

and Garland ^ the average duration of phthisis 
is taken at five years, vrhich gives 280,000 cases 
of phthisis in the United Kingdom. But in 
the opinion of the present writer this estima- 
tion of duration is too long, and does not make 
suificient allowance for the many rapid cases 
running less than a year. 

In any case we have not to deal with the 
disease from its first inception in the lung 
until death, and in the author's opinion, after 
much consideration from many points of view, 
if we could provide sanatorium accommodation 
for 100,000 cases, and chose out the 100,000 
most dangerous cases all over the Kingdom,^ 
we should rapidly break the back of this 
disease. 

It would be unnecessary, with such provision, 
to allow any dangerously infective case to go 
free again into the community, and deaths 
and discharged recoveries would soon make 
room for the diminishing crops of fresh cases 
coming in from previously incipient cases. 
These crops would rapidly decrease in amount, 
and by the end even of the first year there 
would be many empty rooms and beds, and 

^ " The Conquest of Consumption," by Arthur Latham, 
M.D., and C. H. Garland (Fisher Unwin, London). 

^ This is the exact reversal of the present rule, which takes 
incipient and early cases to the sanatoria and turns them out 
"improved" in three to six months. The present rule is only 
another example of present-day methods of tinkering the in- 
dividual case, instead of protecting the community. It is the 
advanced consumptive who requires to be removed in the 
community's interests. 



THE GREAT WHITE PLAGUE 171 

in three or four years the sanatoria would 
gradually empty. 

This estimate gives an average period of 
almost two years of dangerous infectivity for 
each case of pulmonary phthisis. Taking one 
case with another, this would probably be 
ample ; a large percentage, especially of the 
cases first admitted at the commencement, would 
not last six months, and each such case would 
allow another chronic case to run three and a 
half years. Very few cases of a dangerously 
infective nature would go on for more than 
three and a half years without either recovery 
or death. 

A system of notification in use in Liverpool 
during the year 1909, partially voluntary and 
partially as directed under the Local Govern- 
ment Board Regulations (1908), gave such a 
number that after deductions of duplicate notifi- 
cations, other forms of tuberculosis than phthisis, 
and deaths during the year, the figure remain- 
ing (three thousand) bears such a ratio to the 
number of deaths from phthisis during the 
year (eleven hundred), that if we take this same 
ratio for the whole country, where the deaths 
are 56,000, we reach 153,000 cases as the number 
of cases which would have been notified during 
the year and remaining alive at the end of it. 

If now we were able to place 100,000 cases 
in sanatoria, choosing those most dangerous from 
the public health point of view, there is little 
doubt that the vast bulk of the dangerously 



172 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

infective cases would be removed from the 
midst of the community, and the effect of this 
would soon be obvious. From that time onward 
the recoveries and deaths in the sanatoria would 
rapidly make room for cases developing amongst 
the outside population, and soon the balance 
would set in the right direction. 

In addition to these 100,000 State-provided 
beds in the national sanatoria, there would be 
about 5000 private sanatoria beds already in 
existence throughout the country for paying 
patients. The enforcement of a law that a 
consumptive in a condition dangerous to the 
public health must be removed either to a 
national or a private sanatorium, and remain 
there during the continuance of his dan- 
gerous condition, would probably lead to the 
establishment of at least sufficient private pay- 
ing sanatoria to account for another 10,000 
patients. 

We come now to the consideration of the 
question of the compulsory detention of the 
dangerous consumptive within a sanatorium 
from the point of view of personal liberty of 
the individual. We have already seen that it 
is for the direct advantage of the invalid him- 
self in an undoubted case of phthisis (and we 
are postulating that the disease is so far ad- 
vanced that there is sputum being produced, 
and that this sputum has been shown by a 
bacteriological examination to contain tubercle 
bacilli) that he should be so removed and 



THE GEEAT WHITE PLAGUE 173 

placed under sanatorium conditions. But what 
are we to do if a silly sentimentality on the 
part of the patient or his relatives, or both, 
violently opposes any separation, or insists upon 
his leaving the sanatorium while still in a dan- 
gerous condition for mixing with his friends and 
the community ? 

The answer to this question is perfectly clear : 
the authorities administering the Act must have 
full powers of removal and detention of all 
dangerous consumptives, the term " dangerous " 
being defined as above pointed out. 

Nor is there anything novel in such a pro- 
posal, for if we remember that phthisis is merely 
a chronic infectious disease, just as smallpox 
and scarlet-fever are acute infectious diseases, 
it will at once be seen that the powers asked 
in regard to phthisis are merely those supposed 
by the public to be possessed now by the Public 
Health Authority in regard to these other in- 
fectious diseases. 

The Medical Officer of Health of any dis- 
trict, if he is satisfied that any case of a noti- 
fiable disease is dangerous to public health, 
now removes the case to an infectious diseases 
hospital, and it is detained there until discharge 
is compatible with public safety.^ 

Only this and nothing more is required in 

* The Public Health Acts do not really give compulsory 
powers of removal at present, for these other infectious 
diseases, and Medical Officers of Health are compelled in the 
public interests to break the law daily by trading on the 
patients' ignorance of the law. 



174 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

the case of phthisis, and, as has already been 
remarked, if phthisis were not so insidious in 
its onset, and we could see it strike its victims 
from one case to another, as we do scarlet-fever 
and smallpox, we should not still be praying 
for salvation, but have worked it out long since. 

Meanwhile the toll of phthisis is greater than 
that of all the acute infectious diseases put 
together and added up. 

Habit and long custom have made us purblind 
to the ghastly spectre of consumption stalking 
about amongst us and casting its invisible darts 
into the best and cleverest of our citizens, the 
most beautiful of our women, and the fittest of 
our men. 

This dread disease spares neither the child at 
school, the athlete in his prime rejoicing in his 
strength, nor the older man or woman commenc- 
ing a hale old age ; indiscriminately it attacks all 
and is no eliminator of the unfit — all, every one 
amongst us, may be food for it, now or in the 
future. When shall we wake up ? 

Although it is essential that the dangerous 
consumptive shall not mix with the commu- 
nity, there is no reason why he should be en- 
tirely cut off from his friends in the matter of 
visits by them. Each city, or town, or county 
division would possess its sanatorium, and this 
might have its weekly visiting day, provided the 
visitors kept certain isolation rules (the details 
of which need not be gone into here) intended 



THE GKEAT WHITE PLAGUE 175 

to safeguard the visitors themselves from infec- 
tion. To put the matter as briefly as possible, 
the visitors v^ould have to hold the same atti- 
tude towards patients they were visiting as did 
the members of the medical or nursing staff of 
the sanatorium, when the risk either of their 
catching the disease or carrying it out would 
practically fall to zero. 

Another point of great importance, as soon as 
the system was established, would be the pre- 
vention of infection of the country by the arrival 
of advanced cases of phthisis from foreign ports. 
Here the risk is much less than with an acutely 
infectious disease, such as plague or smallpox, 
yet we know how thoroughly our Port Sani- 
tary Officials are able to protect us from these 
invasions. Were further proof required of the 
possibility of guarding our shores from invasion 
by disease, we have the example of the brilliant 
achievement of Mr. Walter Long, when Chief of 
the Local Government Board, in simply anni- 
hilating the disease hydrophobia from amongst 
us, and safeguarding us from re-invasion from 
abroad. 

Previous to the action of Mr. Long, this 
dread disease was well known in our country, 
though not so prevalent as in some Continental 
countries, such as France and Russia. Still, up 
till then every summer brought Britain its crop 
of horrible cases of hydrophobia in human beings, 
and, arising from the hideous character of the 
disease, its greater crop of terrors from bites of 



176 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

dogs which might be mad. Since Mr. Walter 
Long insisted on efficient action, now about 
fourteen years ago, there has not been one single 
case of hydrophobia of man or dog throughout 
the whole United Kingdom. This fell disease, 
still existent in other lands, is extinct in ours. 

As WE ARE FREE NOW FROM HYDROPHOBIA, 
so CAN WE BE FREE FROM TUBERCULOSIS, WHEN 
WE FIND A STATESMAN OF THE COURAGE AND 
FORTITUDE OF Mr. WaLTER LoNG TO LEAD US 
TO VICTORY. 

Most of US remember the howls of execration 
of the days of the " Muzzling Order " ; it required 
some stolidity and grit to stand firm through 
that withering fire of criticism and abuse. 

Any one who has seen, or even read a detailed 
description of the horrors of a case of hydro- 
phobia, can now appreciate what a noble vic- 
tory was won for us against the votaries of 
sentimentality in those days ; and not the least 
thankful, if they could understand and speak, 
would be the dogs themselves. Not only have 
all British dogs escaped hydrophobia ; hundreds 
of them have escaped being shot or stoned to 
death by frenzied and infuriated mobs, madder 
than the supposed mad dogs they engaged in 
hounding to death. 

The fundamental quarantine rules against 
phthisis are quite obvious, especially as it is the 
more advanced cases which are the real danger. 
Every case of immigration suspected of phthisis 
— and the disease at a stage when dangerous to 



THE GKEAT WHITE PLAGUE 177 

others usually holds out plain enough signals 
— must be examined. When the lesions of 
phthisis are found present, admission to the 
country must be refused, and this rule must 
suffer no violation. 

The chief steamship lines, once they knew that 
phthisical patients would be returned on their 
hands, would soon set up medical examinations 
and cease booking them, and the number of 
cases requiring to be submitted to careful or 
prolonged examination at our ports of entry 
from abroad would soon diminish to a small 
percentage of the total arrivals. 



M 



CHAPTER VI 

THE EVOLUTION OF THE NATIONAL 
MEDICAL SERVICE 

A RETROSPECT over the preceding chapters, 
which have been chiefly concerned in pointing 
out evils and abuses, produces rather the im- 
pression of blackness and darkness than that 
of any approach to dawn. Still, the darkest 
hour is that before the dawn, the horizon is 
even now just commencing to show the light 
of approaching day, and certain glad notes of 
song proclaim that every one is not asleep to 
the breath of morning. 

The sunrise that is coming will not be a 
tropical outburst suddenly dazzling the World 
and flooding it with light, but will come with 
the ever-increasing glory of a morning in 
temperate climes. At first, but the grey of 
dawn in the East, showing how black the 
darkness has been ; then, golden-hued clouds 
with a background of many-tinted haze, in- 
creasing in radiance and beauty of colouring 
as the Sun approaches, followed by the grand 
outburst as the god of day comes in sight. 

It is by a process of organic evolution, and 
not by any creative act of a single mind, that 

178 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 179 

the health era will be established. Always in 
evolutionary processes it is observable that the 
first movements are slow and apparently un- 
certain in their purpose, but as the process 
advances the rate of progress ever quickens. 

The social world has not been still during 
the past fifty years in matters of hygiene and 
public health ; bad as things are to-day, and 
little as we should be satisfied with them, 
they were much worse a generation ago. 

But just now there is a great and general 
awakening of the public mind, voiced by the 
thoughts and actions of millions of the best of 
the inhabitants of the country, towards a real 
scientific and continued endeavour to deal with 
the problems of poverty and disease in a way 
that means eradication from the race, and 
not merely amelioration of the lot of the 
individual. 

Philanthropy in the true sense, based on 
scientific forethought, is taking the place of 
soft-headed and soft-hearted charity. Instead 
of giving away of our surplus riches to the 
poor, in soul-destroying doles, we are com- 
mencing to realise that we must give instead 
some of our surplus brains to the understand- 
ing of this problem, which is our problem as 
well as the poor man's problem, and that we 
must better the position of the poor in spite 
of the things which we have previously been 
content to call their vices. These people have 
neither the intellect nor the moral stamina to 



180 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

get rid of these vices without help, and the 
very vices are the result of these defects of 
theirs, and not of any intentional human per- 
versity planted in them by the Creator of the 
Universe. These poor creatures represent the 
so-called survival of the fittest in a perverted 
environment, and shov7 the best that an un- 
aided environment can do : it is ours to better 
that environment, and bring forth a fitter race 
for humanity's high purposes, just as we have 
done in the culture of the Earth, and of the 
lower creation. We who can see thus far, have 
a mission in evolution, and a command to go 
forth and make the World somewhat better 
because we have lived in it, both for our own 
generation and for those to follow, of which 
we are to be the progenitors and leaders. It 
matters not that we do not understand the 
whole of the riddle ; let us follow what we 
know to be our best instincts, and in the 
unravelling during our lives of a little of the 
great puzzle we can have our greatest pleasure 
and happiest life. Who can tell but one day 
we shall see the whole, and with added pleasure 
because we have borne a share in producing the 
beauty of it all ! 

The construction of a National Health Ser- 
vice to produce the good fruits in strengthen- 
ing the physique of the race, and saving the 
national resources as outlined in the previous 
chapters, is a process which will require a 
generation for its completion, and the collabor- 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 181 

ation of many active minds of skilful ad- 
ministrators. 

Accordingly, but little service would be done 
by attempting a detailed forecast of the opera- 
tions of such a service completely equipped and 
in full working order. Any such scheme could 
be quickly torn to pieces by the destructive 
criticism of those who always see impossibili- 
ties in difficulties, and believe that " whatever 
is, is best/* 

The first essential towards reform is to show 
the existence of evil in present methods, and 
when that has been done all that is good in our 
human nature will go on patiently testing one 
experience after another towards the removal 
of the evil. 

x\ny constructive details which may appear 
in the sketch about to be given of the path 
of evolution of the National Medical Service of 
the future, are put forward quite tentatively, 
and to a great extent as material for discussion, 
for the elaboration of a plan of work which 
must inevitably suffer infinite variation as reform 
progresses and new measures are required to 
meet new situations which have arisen by the 
way. 

With these reservations, some attempt may 
now be made to sketch the path along which 
the evolution of a National Health Service, 
specially designed for disease prevention and 
elimination, will probably come to us. 

There are two great movements in present- 



182 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

day politics, supported in principle by both of 
the great political parties, which must ere long 
find their expression in legislation, and such 
legislation, if conceived in any true sense on 
National lines, must inevitably lead to the 
establishment sooner or later of one unified 
and co-ordinated National Medical Service. 

The two movements referred to are (1) the 
provision of a National System of Insurance 
against Sickness, and (2) the Reform of the 
Poor Law as advocated by the Reports of 
the Royal Commission. In reality these two 
movements, arising in quite different ways, 
are bound sooner or later to converge into 
a common scheme which will supply medical 
attendance and treatment to the whole of the 
wage-earning classes — that is to say, to about 
thirty-eight millions of people in these countries. 

Economics demand that such a service, soon 
after its complete establishment, shall become 
preventive in its mode of action. 

The most ardent section of Poor Law re- 
formers — namely, those who uphold the Minority 
Report — advocate the establishment of a unified 
system of County Medical Services in which 
the Public Health Services and Poor Law 
Services shall become amalgamated under the 
various municipalities, other services than those 
connected with sickness of the present Poor 
Law Guardians passing to various discrete 
existent bodies. The weakness of this other- 
wise admirable policy lies in the inadequate 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 183 

co-ordination of the municipalities with one 
another which we already experience in the 
case of the present Poor Law Unions. When 
the system becomes established, as it probably 
soon will be with minor alterations, this weak- 
ness will become apparent, and either all these 
many Municipal Health Authorities will be 
thrown into one National Service, or a very 
strong Central Body (much stronger than any- 
thing postulated in the Minority Report) will 
be formed, controlling and correlating these 
services and substantially uniting them in a 
way which that body, with so multifarious 
duties, called the Local Government Board, is 
supposed to do for the present Poor Law Ser- 
vice, but so signally fails to do. 

One great defect of a system consisting of a 
large number of Municipal Services, as com- 
pared with a National Service, is the impossi- 
bility of affording adequate opportunities for 
merit to show itself in the Service all over 
the country. 

A man cannot, within the boundaries of the 
same service, be transferred and promoted from 
one local centre to another as he can under a 
National Service ; nor can the local services 
acquire sufficient strength and wealth in most 
cases, excepting in very large cities, to provide 
post-graduate training colleges and hospitals 
such as are provided now, for example, by the 
medical services of our Army and Navy, for 
keeping members of the Medical Staff up-to- 



184 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

date with their work, and giving them periods 
of recuperation and revival at stated intervals. 

There are other defects inherent in local 
machinery, especially in regard to medical 
matters, such, for example, as want of medical 
knowledge on the part of local laymen of 
supervision of medical work, wire-pulling over 
local appointments, sweating of salaries or its 
reverse, and other such things, which need not 
here be elaborated at length. 

For these reasons, it is probable that the 
unified County Medical Services will only be 
a valuable temporary measure towards a final 
National Medical Service, as far as Poor Law 
medical work is concerned. 

Of greater magnitude, since it concerns many 
times more people, and carries in its train much 
more deeply seated changes, is the National 
Sickness Insurance Scheme, which also leads, 
though by a longer path, to a National Medical 
Service in the end. 

Here there stand, at the outset, two great 
vested interests, like two lions in the path, each 
opposed to and unfriendly with the other, and 
both more or less opposed, chiefly on account 
of ignorance, to the National Scheme. 

There is no room for the National Insur- 
ance Scheme to exist along with these two irre- 
concilable interests. Without confiscation or 
spoliation, and with all equity, it must, if it is 
to be a success, simply swallow both of them 
up by a process of absorption and assimilation. 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 185 

These two great vested interests are (1) The 
Friendly Societies, (2) The Medical Profession, 
and in both cases the people concerned must 
be made, without detriment to themselves, part 
and parcel of the National Sickness Insurance 
Scheme. 

Considering first the Friendly Societies, it is 
obvious, as the chief officials of the big societies 
have already realised, that setting up a great 
National Society in rivalry to them, able to 
enforce subsidies from the employers, would 
simply ruin them. They would in the end 
be equally, though more slowly, ruined if the 
Government gave them equal privileges with 
itself, and there would arise, in addition, the 
trouble and expense of distributing the em- 
ployers' quota of the subscriptions to the many 
Friendly Societies. 

But it would be suicidal to the National 
Scheme, and at the same time an unwarrant- 
able increasing of vested interests which would 
be almost impossible to get rid of afterwards, 
to expand the present Friendly Societies to at 
least six times their present size so that they 
looked after the Sickness Insurance of all the 
workers. 

Such a colossal folly as this would out- 
magnify such things as Telephone leases a 
hundred-fold, and establish a monopoly more 
powerful than "The Trade," so it is to be hoped 
that whatever statesman, or political party, 
finally carries through State Sickness Insurance 



186 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

will have strength and stability enough to 
remain unmoved by the supposed vote-casting 
powers of the members of the Friendly Societies/ 

Since the present staffs of the Friendly 
Societies only carry out the secretarial and 
organising work of the insurance of about one- 
sixth of the numbers to be insured under any 
National Insurance Scheme, it is obvious that 
work can be found for all of them in the offices 
of the National Insurance Bureau directed by 
the Minister of Public Health. The funds and 
properties of the Societies can be similarly dealt 
with, the sum to which each member is entitled 
being dealt with in one of three ways : — (1) 
It can be returned to him in cash ; (2) it can 
be invested for him in Government Securities ; 
(3) it can be written down to him as so much 
surplus Sickness Insurance money above the 
minimum required by the State Insurance Act, 
or used for a definite length of time in paying 
off his own contribution towards his insurance. 

The action of the United States Government 
in regard to the affairs of one great Insurance 



^ The German State Insurance Scheme has ahnost suffered 
shipwreck, because administration was left largely in the hands 
of the German Friendly Societies. Even now, the German 
doctors in many parts of that country are deeply dissatisfied 
with it, and are in almost open revolt against it, on account of 
antipathy to the methods of the Friendly Societies. No true 
service can be obtained under sweating conditions, and this is 
what we shall have unless our new State Sickness Insurance 
is run on National lines, and without the embarrassment of 
hundreds of competing Societies, providing salaries for unneces- 
sary middlemen. 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 187 

Company shows that the Government of any 
country has a perfectly equitable right to in- 
terfere in the affairs of any public company 
in such a fashion. 

Moreover, there is little question that the 
present members of Friendly Societies, if con- 
sulted, would agree by large majorities to be 
transferred to the National Scheme, under some 
such equitable conditions as have been outlined 
above. ^ 

The solution of the difficulty created by the 
existence of the numerous Friendly Societies 
accordingly lies not in granting new powers 
or extensions to these, nor in setting up any- 
thing in rivalry to them, but purely in ab- 
sorbing them with absolute justice to both 
officials and members. If a strong statesman 
puts forward a sound National Scheme, the 
absorption will not prove a process of any 
great difficulty. 

Gradual absorption is also the natural process 
in the case of the other great vested interest 
involved, namely, that of the medical profession. 

^ According to the returns of the Chief Registrar of Friendly 
Societies, the aggregate membership of " Ordinary Friendly 
Societies "is 3,473,712, and of Friendly Societies with branches 
(such as Foresters and Oddfellows) the total membership is 
2,704,404. This means only about one-sixth of the population 
to be insured, and of these there is no doubt that the majority 
would support any equitable Government Scheme for absorp- 
tion, whatever officials may say. The members have joined these 
Societies because no Government Scheme has existed, and the 
endowment of a properly constituted National System would 
remove entirely the raison d'etre of these Societies, a fact 
which their own members will be the first to realise. 



188 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

If this vested interest did not exist, the National 
Medical Service would undoubtedly be manned 
from the beginning by a Staff paid by salary for 
whole-time service, and towards this the constant 
movement ought to be directed. To turn the 
whole of the present medical men practising in 
the country immediately into salaried medical 
officers would, however, prove impossible. There 
exists no basis, to begin with, upon which the 
salaries of the doctors could be calculated in a 
trustworthy way, and such a basis must first be 
obtained. 

For the first period of running of the scheme, 
then, it would have to be thrown open to the 
whole of the medical profession, and payment 
would have to be made upon the basis of some 
scheme such as one or other of several plans, 
differing in detail, which have been discussed 
by the British Medical Association and other 
bodies. 

This arrangement, however, does not preclude 
working towards the ideal of a true National 
Medical Service with proper admissions, and 
promotions, and opportunities for service and 
study. In fact, the gradual evolution of a 
service such as can be brought about in the 
course of at most twenty to twenty-five years, 
without any sudden or revolutionary procedures, 
will only tend to the organic development of 
a much better service. 

After the State Insurance Scheme had run 
for a period of, say, three years, there are two 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 189 

methods by which it could be gradually con- 
verted into a National Medical Service. 

As soon as the State Insurance came into 
action, a State Examination should be estab- 
lished for entry into the State Medical Service,^ 
and during the first three years the entrants 
into the State service should be sent into the 
State hospitals v^^hich the new scheme would 
inevitably require. The number of men re- 
quired each year in this way would be 800 to 
1000, for there are about 32,000 members 
of the medical profession, and assigning thirty- 
five years of active life service to each man, the 
annual number required for maintenance of 
the staff of the service would be thus about 
nine hundred men.^ 

At the end of the three preliminary years, 
a basis would have been obtained on which 
incomes could be calculated, and then induce- 
ments of a steady income, based on these 
figures in each case, with such retirement 
allowances as every medical man ought to have 
at the age of sixty-five, should be offered, in 
order to induce men in practice to become 
members of the National Medical Service. 

The places of men retiring, and the vacancies 

^ In a few years this State Examination would become 
a single portal entry to the medical profession, that great 
desideratum of many years which has never yet been realised. 

' These new State hospitals and State doctors do not 
mean additional expense, for, as has previously been shown, 
we have already to pay for both hospitals and doctors in 
many devious and most uneconomical ways. 



190 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

left by deaths of practitioners, would be filled 
by drafting in the men who had meanwhile 
been undergoing training in the State hospitals. 

There is little doubt that at the end of the 
three years a large number of existing practi- 
tioners would choose to join the State Medical 
Service.^ 

Even without any such adhesions, in a period 
of about twenty-five years the State Service 
would automatically have established itself, and 
in the best possible way, namely, that of slow 
organic growth. 

With such a service in operation, and the 
numerous State hospitals in connection with 
it carrying out efficient medical and surgical 
work, and the State Medical Stafi" coming in, 
by rotation, to acquire hospital skill, it would 
soon be found that the Voluntary Hospitals 
would step into line with the rest of the service 
and accept State support and control. 

The final result would be one unified system 
in common co-ordination of hospitals and 
doctors, now no longer in deadly opposition 
to one another, but working for a common 
cause — in short, a modern machine and weapon 
of warfare against disease, instead of a frag- 
mentary and motley museum of survivals from 
antiquity. 

Now let us glance at this machine at work. 

^ In a referendum now being taken of all Medical men in 
Ireland, 1765 have voted For, and only 35 Against, the institu- 
tion of a National Medical Service for Ireland. 



NATIONAL MEDICAL 'SERVICE 191 

The district assigned to each State doctor 
doing outside work would contain 400 to 500 
families or houses.^ He would have in this 
district a surgery to which any one requiring 
advice would come at fixed times of consul- 
tation ; there would be no crowds, as at present, 
because there would be no sweated work ; there 
would be no advanced phthisical cases coming, 
because they, if still existent, would be in sana- 
toria ; other infectious cases would also be 
chiefly picked out in the homes, in ways to 
be pointed out later. Such patients who came 
on their own initiative would be treated in 
the surgery as at present, but on account of 
other agencies at work the number would be 
much less than at present. No case of serious 
disease would be allowed to go away treated 
in a perfunctory way, or sent back into the 
community or to work. The infectious case 
would go to the infectious hospital, or if cir- 
cumstances were such that it could be isolated, 
and rendered free of danger to others, it would 
be treated at home. Similarly, with the serious 
case, such as one requiring a surgical operation, 
this would be sent to the hospital, or if the 
patient refused he would be told flatly and 
straightforwardly the great risk he was running ; 

1 This would constitute each doctor's district for inspection 
and preventive purposes, but for the purpose of patients visit- 
ing doctors for advice on their own initiative, a dozen or more 
such districts might be termed a division, within which any 
patient might make choice of a doctor without having to pay 
a fee, so preserving the choice of doctor. 



192 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

there would be no hospital abuse existing any 
longer, and no fees at stake. The effect of 
such things as these in diminishing the flow 
of disease through the doctors' surgeries can 
be imagined. 

Then at certain hours the doctor would do 
his visiting rounds much as he does at present, 
but under much more ideal conditions than 
he can now claim. He would have no rivals 
worrying him, no bills to bother about, no sus- 
picions lest his patients thought he was after 
fees. His practice would be compact in the 
little district allotted to him, and while there 
would be sufficient supervision to see there was 
no shirking of work, he would be free from a 
hundred embarrassments in his work from which 
he now suffers. 

Let us next look at the matter from the 
point of view, so often called in evidence by 
opponents, of " the Sanctity of the Home " 
and the intrusion upon it of an army of 
officials. 

This is an ancient bogey which was taken 
out of its cupboard, carefully dusted, and filled 
with fresh straw, to alarm the British workman 
and voter when free education was granted him 
for his children. 

He was then told that his hereditary castle 
was gone for ever, and that he would have 
no peace or quiet with his wife and family on 
account of the unwelcome and prying visits 
of the School Attendance Officer haling poor 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SEEVICE 193 

little Johnnie away to school as to some prison 
or torture chamber. 

Now is it so in fact, after a good many years 
of reign of the School Board? Is this reign 
really a reign of terror ? Is the School Attend- 
ance Officer an irksome person in constant 
attendance at the poor man's house ? No ; 
he is only a terror to those, and they are but 
a small percentage, to whom he ought to be 
a terror, and to whom we would all wish him 
to be a terror, who neglect their children in 
a wicked and criminal way. 

Similarly with the Sanitary Inspector of 
Nuisances, and the inspectors for cruelty and 
neglect of children. These officials, although 
they visit homes, have no more terrors for 
honest people than either the policeman or the 
gas-meter inspector. 

There is also that utterly uncalled-for figment 
of the imagination of a frequent inspection of 
the healthy to be dealt with. No such com- 
pulsory inspection of healthy people is necessary 
in tracking down and beating out disease. 
If we have an efficient National Health Corps 
whose business it is to find infectious disease 
and stamp it out, the object can be achieved 
without any vexatious examination or inter- 
ference with the healthy. All this is no 
refutation of what has been said previously 
that it is a sane and sensible thing for a 
person to be examined once a year whether 
he is feeling ill or not, just as it is a wise 

N 



194 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

thing to let a dentist look at the teeth occa- 
sionally. But no one need be compelled to do 
it who does not want to do so. 

Let us see how the National Medical Service 
would get its work of prevention in. Suppose 
a case of diphtheria has been found in a given 
house in a given street. Then, first of all, that 
case, unless it could be properly isolated and 
treated in the house, would be at once removed 
and treated with antitoxin at the Infectious 
Diseases Hospital, without any waiting, or 
any orders, or other nonsensical preliminaries, 
with the result that the life would often be 
saved where it is now lost. An intimation 
would, of course, be sent to the school the 
patient had been attending, and to all the 
doctors in neighbouring districts who were 
responsible for the patient's classmates, and 
the school medical officer's task would be to 
catch the first sore throat turning up in that 
school, send the child home, and have it 
watched by its own district medical officer. 

The duty of the district medical officer who 
first found the case would be to question 
the mother as to the people who had been 
in contact with the child, keep these under 
observation, and make inquiries either himself 
or through the district nurse, or by any volun- 
tary health-workers attached to his district, 
as to sore throats in these houses. A simple 
inquiry at the door is all that is required: 
" Anybody in the house suffering from cold or 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 195 

sore throat ? " An affirmative answer would 
bring the doctor to examine into the matter. 
Is there anything inquisitorial in such methods, 
or does any one think it would be resented 
by people who know they are paying for the 
doctor, and for just such care being exercised 
for them? If there are people so ignorant as 
to resent such things, then the sooner we 
educate them otherwise, and teach them it is 
a privilege to be cared for, the better. 

In addition to this, it ought to be the district 
doctor's business, or that of one of his Staff, to 
call at least once in six months and simply 
ask if all is well in a household ; there need 
be no inquisition and no forcible entry. Some 
educative teaching as to the value of early 
acquainting the doctor with cases of illness, 
given with the object-lesson of a neglected 
case, would soon do away with any tendency 
to conceal illness in the household, and the 
National Medical Service would soon acquire 
the confidence of the people. The absence 
of the dread of the fee to pay amongst the 
poor, or rather the comforting thought that 
it had already been paid in the weekly con- 
tribution, would also tend to create ready con- 
fidence between doctor and patient. The lay 
officials of the Government would assist the 
doctor in combating any dishonest malinger- 
ing, another bogey about which far too much 
fuss is made. Soon this house-to-house visiting, 
and reminding people that they had the ser- 



196 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

vices of a doctor at their call, would become 
unnecessary as they became educated up to 
the new order of things. Disease would reach 
the doctor earlier, and the outlook would 
improve both for patient and community. 
Under such conditions the Public Health 
would unquestionably so much improve, and 
widespread epidemics of disease become so 
rare, that more and more of the time of the 
medical staff would become free from tinker- 
ing of patients, and capable of utiHsation for 
direct attack upon disease and its prevention, 
and for inquiry and research upon the prob- 
lems of health and disease. 

One note which cannot be too often repeated 
is that such a service would not tend in the 
least to the protection of the unfit, but on the 
contrary, by producing a more and more healthy 
environment, would develop a more and more 
healthy species to inhabit that environment. Do 
not let us, by a false application of the law of 
the survival of the fittest, fall a -slumbering to 
the fact that even the fittest for a wretched 
environment may not be the finest race. The 
misapplication of this fundamental biological law 
is one of the greatest delusions of the superficial 
knowledge of the age, a product of that half- 
knowledge which is so intensely dangerous. 

Let us improve the environment, and the 
wretched creatures of the environment will im- 
prove with it and grow into the fittest for the 
new and better environment we have provided. 



NATIONAL MEDICAL SERVICE 197 

Also, do not let us think the less fit will over- 
run the earth if they be helped up. Nature 
herself looks after that ; the exact opposite is 
the truth — they will over-run the earth if they are 
not raised up. If the bad environment is made 
the almost universal one, as it is now, the lower 
type of creature in that environment will over- 
run the higher type. We are one species, we 
human-kind, and one class cannot safely or per- 
manently rise or fall by itself ; we must take the 
others up, or be dragged down ourselves along 
with them. 



N 2 



APPENDIX 



The second supplement to the last decennial report of the 
Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages (Blue Book, 
published 1908) contains a detailed account of occupational 
mortality amongst males, in which the figures for total deaths, 
due to several important diseases, in each of 104 classes of 
occupations, are given for the years 1900-1902. The ratio of 
deaths from phthisis to total deaths, in various occupations, 
shows in a most interesting manner how the death-rate rises 
in those occupations where the workmen are more subjected to 
close contact with their fellows, at the later and more infectious 
stages of the disease. It is not dust-laden atmosphere or confined 
space which increase the death-rate from phthisis, so much as 
the presence in close proximity of phthisical fellow-workmen in 
the infective stages of the disease. In support of this the 
various occupations are arranged in the table given below in 
order of the ratio of the phthisis-deaths to total-deaths from 
all causes. 

The following remarks regarding certain typical employments 
may illustrate the value of the tabulation. 

One of the heaviest death-rates of all is amongst printers, 
compositors, and lithographers, where nearly one in every three 
dies of phthisis. Here we have an occupation in which a work- 
man can go on with his work to the very end, and where he is 
working close to other workmen, and using the same tools, at a 
stage when he is most highly infective. The author has recently 
had considerable opportunity, on account of intimate business 
relationships with compositors, of studying this problem, and 
discussing it with some of those intimately concerned. The 
workmen do not appear to realise how insidiously infective this 
disease is, and blame the dust and closeness of their occupation 
as the cause of the excessive death-rate. This is jnot the true 
cause ; coal-miners, who work in most confined spaces and have 
most dusty work, have a death-rate from phthisis of only about 
one in eleven. The coal-miner who contracts phthisis some- 
where else than at his work, has to leave off his heavy physical 
labours before he reaches the advanced stage at which he be- 
comes dangerous to his fellow-workers. Also, he does not work 

199 



200 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 

in such close, companionship with them, and at intervals use the 
same tools and appliances. It appears that in any large com- 
positors' workroom there is usually to be found at least one 
individual with more or less advanced phthisis, who uses the 
same tools, the same towels for washing up, and so on, as all 
the other workmen. It would pay the healthy workmen out of 
their society funds to retire such men altogether, rather than 
be saddled with a death-rate of one in three from the operation 
of such obvious causes. 

The same thing is illustrated by the low phthisis death-rate 
amongst marine firemen and stokers. Here the confined sleep- 
ing accommodation, the vicissitudes of temperature on and off 
work, the coal-dust, and so on, would have been factors in- 
clining one prima facie to place stokers near the head of the 
list ; but, strange to say, they have a death-rate from phthisis 
of only one in eleven. The explanation is that they do not 
infect one another. Before the disease has advanced to its in- 
fective stage the stoker is no longer fit for his work. 

Other influences undoubtedly come in, such as open-air life 
and good food, or the reverse of these, as is shown by the ten 
occupations at the end of the list, but a glance at the occu- 
pations at the upper end of the list (all those up to 5*5, for 
example, except dock-labourers) shows in a convincing way that 
these are as a rule light occujDations in which the consumptive 
can stay at work and go on infecting his fellow-workmen long 
after he has reached the infective stage of the disease. 

The contrast between dock-labourers with an incidence of two 
in eleven, and navvies and road-labourers with about one in 
twelve, or bargemen and lightermen with two in twenty-five, is 
remarkable. It indicates the dreadful eftects of casual labour, 
underfeeding, and overcrowding in the houses, as an object-lesson 
to which it would be hard to find an equal. 

The whole list is of intense value as an indication, under 
present conditions, of those employments which the threatened 
consumptive, or person of weak physique, should avoid, and of 
those wliich offer a better chance of safety. 

The variation in incidence from one in three, to one in 
twenty-seven, shows the enormous influence of occupation, 
education, and environment. It may be pointed out that the 
excessively low rate amongst clergymen is not due to the 
extremely good health of clergymen on the whole ; because it is 
a ratio of deaths from phthisis to deaths from all causes, and, 
therefore, although clergymen have the healthiest lives in the 
community, this does not explain the low phthisical death-ratio. 
For, as a result of the low general death-rate, both phthisis 
death-rate and general death-rate would go down together, 



APPENDIX 



201 



and so the ratio would remain undisturbed. Accordingly the 
ratio of one in twenty-seven amongst clergymen demonstrates 
something more than this. It clearly shows that phthisis is 
a disease due mainly to ignorance, carelessness, and infection 
under dirty surroundings, and that we can get rid of it effec- 
tually when we are prepared to organise and fight against it. 

It is a high honour to the clergy that they possess not only 
the lowest general death-rate in the country, but comparatively, 
on the top of this, the very lowest death-ratio from phthisis. 
Such figures indicate for the profession the highest standard of 
pure, clean, healthy living in the whole country. Is it too 
much to appeal to this highest rank of teachers in the nation, 
who are themselves setting such a noble example, to recognise 
that the highest ideals of their religion demand a crusade 
to make their own death-rate from phthisis the death-rate of 
the nation. It is not necessary that the country should be 
oppressed and impoverished by our present incidences of illness ; 
the cause of our afflictions is our apathy and carelessness of all 
that science has taught. 



Occupational Death-rates from Phthisis and from all 
Causes respectively, and the Eatio of Phthisis 
Dkath-rate to Total Death-rate. 

(For all males over 15 years of age, whether occupied or retired.i 
in England and Wales only, during three years 1900-1902.) 



Occupation 
(All Occupations) 



Inn and Hotel Servants 

Printers 

Tramway Service Em 

ployees . 
Commercial Clerks 
Law Clerks . 
Bookbinders 
Hairdressers 
Musicians . 
Railway Clerks and Officials 



TOTAL 


Total 


Deaths 


Deaths 


1 FROM 


FROM ALL 


1 Phthisis 


Causes 


(66,937) 


(509,567) 


646 


2,109 


1 946 


3,209 


1 131 


494 


2,422 


9,807 


235 


956 


120 


490 


270 


1,183 


247 


1,143 


420 


2,079 



Ratio 
(7-6) 



1 death in 3-3 
3-4 



3-8 
4-0 
41 
41 
4-4 
4-6 
4-9 



1 The incidence amongst the employed only is still higher than that 
amongst employed and retired counted together, because the incidence 
of phthisis ia higher in middle life. 



202 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 



OCCUPATION 
(All Occupations) 



Tobacconists 

Drapers, etc. 

Tool, Scissor, File Makers 

Glass Manufacturers . 

Messengers and Porters (not 

Rly. or Gvt.) . 
Hatters 
India-rubber, Gutta, etc 

Workers . 
Domestic Indoor Servants 
Costermongers, Hawkers 
Dock Labourers . 
Watch and Clock Makers 

Jewellers, etc. 
Copper, Tin, Zinc, Lead 

Brass, etc., Workers 
Cabinetmakers, etc. . 
Stationers, Publishers 

Newsagents 
Potters, Earthenware 

Workers, etc. . 
Civil Service (Messengers) 
Brush, Brooms, Hair, Bristle 

Workers .... 

Paperhangers, Plasterers, 
etc 

Plumbers, Painters, Glaziers 

Coach, Cab, Omnibus Ser 
vice. Grooms . 

Boiler-makers, Fitters, Mill 
Wrights, etc. . 

Stone and Slate Quarries 

Saddlers, Harness Makers 

Schoolmasters . 

Shoemakers 

Curriers ... 

Tailors 

Wood-turners, Coopers, etc 

Cotton Manufacturers 

Lace Manufacturers . 



Total 
Deaths 

FROM 

Phthisis 
(66,937) 



156 

469 
490 
223 



Total 

Deaths 

from all 

Causes 

(509,567) 



Ratio 
(7-6) 



784 , 

2,399 ! 

2,519 I 
1,135 



1 death 



833 


4,.344 


156 


812 


81 


419 


329 


1,781 


833 


4,492 


1,036 


5,709 


626 


3,463 


1,138 


6,357 


775 


4,383 


379 


2,148 


306 


1,770 


264 


1,553 


102 


601 


318 


1,909 


1,605 


9,751 


1,641 


10,248 


1,963 


12,164 


504 


3,141 


206 


1,298 


280 


1,781 


1,886 


12,027 


182 


1,169 


1,171 , 


7,658 


312 1 


2,035 


1,157 i 


7,497 


87 


567 



in 5-0 
5-1 
5-1 
51 

5-2 
5-2 

5-2 
5-4 
5-4 
5-5 

5-5 

5-6 
5-7 

5-7 

5-8 
5-9 

5-9 



60 
6-1 

6-2 

6-2 
6-2 
6-3 
6-4 
6-4 
6-4 
6-5 
6-5 
6-5 
6-5 



APPENDIX 



203 





Total 


Total 




OCCUPATION 

(All Occupations) 


Deaths 

FROM 
PHTHISIS 


Deaths 

FROM ALL 

Causes 


Eatio 

(7-6) 




(66,937) 


(509,567) 




Bricklayers, Masons, etc. . 


2,521 


16,632 


1 death in 66 


Coal-heavers 


204 


1,356 


6-6 


General Shopkeepers . 


273 


1,852 


6-8 


Paper Manufacturers . 


70 


474 


6-8 


Chimney Sweeps 


80 


543 


6'8 


Commercial Travellers 


419 


2,880 


6-9 


Ironmongers 


125 


887 


71 


Carmen and Carriers . 


1,499 


10,789 


7-2 


Brewers . . . . 


244 


1,749 


7-2 


Slaters, Tilers . 


65 


467 


7-2 


General Labourers 


7,197 


52,004 


7-2 


Railway Guards, Porters 








Pointsmen 


604 


4,439 


7-3 


Bakers, Confectioners 


550 


4,036 


7-3 


Dyers (Textile) . 


324 


2,407 


7-4 


Gas Workers 


262 


1,979 


7-5 


Average . 


66,937 


509,567 


„ 7-6 


All Textiles . 


. 2,313 


17,788 


7-7 


Fishmongers, Poulterers 


164 


1,278 


7-8 


Grocers, etc. 


647 


5,045 


7-8 


Artists, Sculptors, Architects 


3 127 


1,003 


7-9 


Railway Engine Drivers anc 


I 






Stokers . 


185 


1,475 


7-9 


Nail, Anchor, Chain, etc. 








Makers . 


1,364 


10,774 


7-9 


Seamen (Merchant Service 


1 1,006 


8,128 


8-1 


Butchers . 


669 


4,675 


8-2 


Coach, Carriage,etc. ,Maken 


5 237 


1,937 


8-2 


Chemists and Druggists 


142 


1,281 


8.3 


Civil Service (Officers anc 


I 






Clerks) . 


253 


2,138 


8-4 


Fruiterers, Greengrocers 


223 


1,882 


8-4 


Carpenters, Joiners . 


. 1,398 


11,924 


8-5 


Carpet, Felt, etc., Workers 


46 


415 


90 


Shipbuilders 


388 


3,607 


9-3 


Wool, etc. , Manufacturers 


474 


4,393 


9-3 


Blacksmiths, Strikers, etc. 


718 


6,972 


9-7 


Rope, Twine, etc., Manu 








facturers . 


43 


440 


10-2 



204 DAWN OF THE HEALTH AGE 





Total 


Total 




Occupation 


Deaths 


Deaths 


Ratio 


(All Occupations) 


PROM 

Phthisis 


FROM ALL 

Causes 


r7-6) 




(66,937) 


(509,567) 




Innkeepers, Publicans 


933 


9,608 


1 death in 10-3 


All Miners .... 


2,253 


23,190 


10-3 


Sawyers .... 


147 


1,570 


10-7 


Brick, Tile, etc., Makers . 


166 


1,820 


10-9 


Hosiers .... 


106 


1,165 


110 


Coal Miners 


L950 


21,605 


11-1 


Wheelwrights . 


140 


1,574 


11-2 


Firemen, Stokers, Marine 








Engineers 


371 


4,136 


11-2 


Maltsters .... 


40 


466 


11-6 


Millers, etc. 


113 


1,306 


„ 11-6 


Silk, etc., Manufacturers . 


76 


904 


11-8 


Platelayers, Rly. Labourers, 








Navvies, Road Labourers 


629 


7,471 


11-9 


Milksellers, Cheesemongers 


167 


2,022 


121 


Chemical Manufacturers . 


86 


1,055 


12-3 


Bargemen and Lightermen . 


174 


2,170 


12-5 


Gardeners, Nurserymen 


669 


9,674 


M 14-5 


Coal Merchants and Dealers 


121 


1,780 


14-7 


Barristers and Solicitors 


80 


1,181 


14-8 


Fishermen .... 


85 


1,347 


15-8 


Farm Labourers . 


1,679 


28,745 


17-1 


Gamekeepers 


46 


829 


180 


Farmers and Graziers 


884 


19,447 


22-0 


Physicians .... 


59 


1,342 


22-7 


Clergymen .... 


92 


2,488 


27-0 



Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson 6* Co. 
Edinburgh 6* London 



to • 



University of Toronto 
Library 



CO 

CO 
to 






u 



s 







Ac.-c Llbrarj' Card Pocket 
Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



^1 



