^&cre-i-^ ^ 




CORRECT 

LE 
SERVICE 



Suggestions /"ov 



Tc 



The 

Winterthur 

Library 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

LYRASIS IVIembers and Sloan Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/secretsofcorrectOOunse 



SECRETS OF 

CORRECT TABLE SERVICE 



SUGGESTIONS FOR 
MENU MAKING 



^ 



COMPILED AND WWTTEN BY THE 

SCHOOL OF DOMESTIC 
AKTS AND SCIENCE 



l^U 




^ 



^ 



^ 



ISSUED BY 

THE PICKARD STUDIOS 
CHICAGO 






Copyrla^ht, 3912, by W. A. Pickard 



w^s^m§^'^m§^'^ 




ME IDEALS ®F TIHi 



C To give the highest expression to artistic im- 
pulses in decorating porcelain. 

C To avoid all that is ordinary or commonplace 
in color or design. 

C To give to each artist the widest latitude in 
originating ideas. 

C To seek inspiration for new motifs from sources 
beyond the reach of home decorators. 

C To keep a staff of artists representative of all 
the world s best decorative schools. 

C To follow each detail of decorating and firing 
with critical precision. 

C To study the relation of the decoration to the 
shap)e with a sense of harmony that makes 
for the distinction of Pickard China. 



PICKARD CHINA 

Pickard China must not be confused with ordinary 
Hand -painted China. It is a new development that has 
been so far advanced that it stands distinctively in a class 
by itself. It is a creature of enthusiasm — Pickard China, 
a master idea carried to perfection by a band of artists 
whose very heart and soul go into their handiwork. 
While each individual is entirely unhampered by "factory 
restrictions," he has the full benefit of the combined art- 
istic strength of the studios, through the conference school 
in which is discussed every shape and every design be- 
fore it is accepted. 

The Pickard Studios are as unique as is Pickard 
China — the building itself is made distinctive in its architect' 
ural beauty. It is perfect in its interior appointments — 
modern in all its equipment. 

The artists work in an environment that call forth 
their highest endeavors. Every artist is stimulated in the 
personal pride he takes in every piece he produces, and 
his signature on every piece means more — much more to 
him than does the artist's name on the usual signed piece. 

The variety of decorations and designs in Pickard 
China affords ample range for any desired selection. 
Pickard China comes as a happy suggestion to those seek^ 
ing distinctive gifts. 



THE PICKARD STUDIOS 

4853 E. RAVENSWOOD PAKK 

CHICAGO 



Page Three 



!iJMM^^^2^^?Ei: 



^:i 







^ 



^ 



^ 



m 




^ 



^ 



^ 



^ 



^ 






Pickard China — Encrusted Linear 

An elegant ne\/v design showing the beautiful encrusted gold surface, 
which is an invention of the Pickard Studios. This gold surface is adorned 
by a band of a delicate olive green color around the top of the design 
This band in its turn, is edged top and bottom by very narrow bands, 
of a lustrous purplish blue. In this composite band are set, at regular dis' 
tances apart, roundals, from the lower parts of which linear bands extend 
to the bottom of the design. 



Page Four 



Secrets of Correct Table Service 

AUTHORITY SCHOOL OF DOMESTIC 
ARTS AND SCIENCE • CHICAGO 

THE refinement of a home is revealed in nothing 
more clearly than in the appointments of the table 
and the manner of serving food, whether this be 
done in simple or most elaborate fashion — good taste 
being equally possible to both. While eating is a neces- 
sity which human beings share with animals, we sink 
below their level when, in ministering to our physical 
needs, we do not at the same time feed our higher natures. 
We should gratify our eyes by a symmetrical arrange- 
ment of china, silver and linen; our ears by restfully 
quiet handling of the same; our minds by cheerful conver- 
sation, which a lack of methodical service precludes; and 
our hearts by looking to the comfort of each person at 
the table, especially of the guest, in whose honor we 
should set forth the best our means afford, without 
ostentation if it be elegant, without self- consciousness 
if it be simple even to meagerness. 

Setting the Table 

If the room contains a hanging light the center of the 
table should be directly under it. A "silence cloth "should 
always be used under a tablecloth to protect the sur^ 
face of the table and to lessen noise. ,,, 

The tablecloth should be laid smooth- '"' 'I'"' '^' 
ly and evenly on the table. 
Doilies instead of a cloth may be 
used for breakfast, luncheon, 
supper or the informal family 
dinner. Twenty- five to thirty 
inches is allo\A/ed from 
plate to plate. 

No. I — Punch Bowl and Glasses. 



Page Five 




«B 



WUTT^ 



^^?©^£g^M^0l2^^EI 




Pickard China — Encrusted Linear 

This striking decoration, which finds such favor every time it is shown- 
is based on an antique Chinese motif that has been modernized and Amer' 
icanized by the Pickard Studios. 

The illustrations and description on page four, give but a fair idea of its 
richness and beauty. Many new and original shapes are shown in this very 
popular design. 



Page Six 




An individual "cover'' consists of plates, glasses, silver 
and napkin to be used by one person and is laid within 
this space. 

An ornamental plate, called a "service plate," 
may or may not be used. Upon this is placed 
first the plate containing the hors -^m li n 

fr^. :>::r orlt th -^iSli 

cocktail, and in the next 

course the soup plate. To 

the right of this plate or 

space are laid the knives, 

with sharp edges turned 

to the left, the spoons, 

with the bowls turned up, 

and, sometimes the oyster 

fork. To the left are the forks, the tines turned up, ar^ 

ranged in the order in which they are to be used, the first 

being farthest from the plate. The water-glass stands at 

the point of the knife, the bread and butter plate, if used, 

at the top and slightly to the left of the forks; the napkin 

lies at the left of the silver with the fold at the top, the 

open edges at the right and toward the edge of the table. 

The Waitress 

Whether the meal be served by the person who has 
prepared it or by a special maid, her hair, collar, apron 
and hands must be neat, trim and clean and her move- 
ments quiet and deft. When she has no kitchen duties, 
special watchfulness of every person's needs in the dining- 



No. 2 — Cover for breakfast. Pvcady for serving cereal and coffee. 
Compound service, showing place of hostess. Cereal served, Rus- 
sian style, and coffee, English style. 

On the tray are three pitchers — the smallest for 
cream; next in size for hot milk; and the large 
pitcher for hot water, provided to heat the cups; 
the water is poured into each cup; after being 
heated it is emptied into the bowl, which is also 
on the tray before the coffee is served. 
No. 3 — Cover for luncheon, for the serving of 
the meat course. Also showing the position of 
the coffee cup, which is to be placed after the 
remainder of the course has been served. 



Pag-e Seven 




m^ 



'g^:^£^2SM^Sl2^^ESi 



^^ 







L^ 



^ 



SS 




Pickard China — The Deserted Garden 
(Fruit Band) 

This unique design shows a flat gold surface broken by a broad, deco- 
rative band in which is portrayed an old fruit garden run wild. The browns 
of the old tree trunks and dead grasses, the dull green of the living foliage, 
the piercing red of the raspberries, the soft purple of the plums, the solid 
purple of the grapes combine in a strong color symphony which is the chief 
beauty of the composition. 



Page Eight 




room is expected of her. In either case she is responsible 
for the proper temperature of dishes, which should be 
\^/armed for hot foods, cooled in the ice-box for salads 
or frozen dishes. 

A folded napkin on the palm of the left hand is pre^ 
ferred to a tray for passing dishes, except ^_J~^^ 

where two or more small articles, as sugar 
bowl and cream pitcher, are passed ^^ 
together. 

The waitress stands at 
the left of the person being 
served, 'whether she is pass- 
ing a dish from which he is 
to help himself, or setting 
down or removing a plate, unless the article belongs to ^°' ^ 
the right of the plate, as a cup, glass or spoon. 

Forms of Service 

There are three recognized methods of serving a 
meal, known as the English, the Russian and the Com^ 
promise Service. Of these three the English is best 
adapted to households where the help employed from 
outside is limited, though it is by no means confined to 
this limitation. 

The Russian is the most formal. The Compromise, 
with points taken from both these, combines informality 
with elegance. 

English Service 

All the food belonging to one course or all that is to 
be served at a simple meal is placed on the table in 
platters and other suitable dishes before the host, hostess 
or some member of the family. The ^^^^^ 

number of plates necessary for the "- 
persons seated may be in a pile, before — 



No. 4— Order of forks to be changed, the longest fork 
should be in the middle. The outer fork in picture 
should be next the plate and the middle fork in the 
picture on the outside. 

No 5 — Ice Cream Service, showing the place of the 
hostess set for serving dessert, English Style. The ser- 
vice may be used for other cold desserts; also for 
short cakes and similar deserts. 



Page Nine 




t^iSM^ES^^i^ES: 




^ 



Pickard China — Deserted Garden 

The strong color note, yet in the most harmonious blendings, makes the 
Deserted Garden one of the popular decorations of the Pickard Studios. 
Because of the wealth of color tones these pieces find congenial surroundings 
amidst any color scheme or class of furnishings. Probably there has never 
been a design so sought for for decoratively useful pieces for the dining room 
And the rich gold of the mass of the pieces give them unusual distinction. 
Many exquisite new shapes are shown in this decoration. 



SS 



^T¥^^^m^^^ssm§^^^§€^ 



Page Ten 




the carver, or taken, one by one, from the side- table and 
set before him. As each plate receives its portion, the 
waitress carries it either to the person serving another 
article of food, such as vegetables, or sets it directly before 
the person for whom it is intended. 

At the last course of an English 
Service. XA^hen finger bowls are used, 
a plate upon which are the bowl 
and doily should be set in 
frontof each person. The 
waitress should have an 
extra plate in her hand to 
set before the hostess as 
soon as she takes up the 
one ready to be passed. 
Each person having re^ 
moved the finger bowl ^ _ 

and doily from the plate, 

the exchange of empty plate for the filled one is quietly 
and quickly made. 

Russian Service 

As this serving is done from the serving -table or 
pantry, no food appears on the table, with the excep- 
tion of candy, nuts and relishes. 

Each plate may be brought from the pantry with a 
portion of the main dish of the course, and perhaps one 
accessory upon it, all other dishes being passed; or the 
plates are set down empty, and all food ^^^y 
passed on well- arranged platters from which 
each person serves himself. 

As the waitress removes each 
plate, with the right hand, she sets 



No. 6 — Nut Set. Bowl and individual 
dishes of same design. 
No. 7 — Chocolate Service. Creamer 
hot milk may be served in the pitcher, as 
well as whipped cream in the bowl. 



No. 6 




Page Eleven 



m'.. ' i ■ ' ..'L 



ms^m^m^^mmm^^f^^^^ 




Pickard China — Fine Encrusted 

The Fine Encrusted Gold is an attractive all over gold encrustation. 
This is one of the innovations produced by the Pickard Studios. While 
the etching in this design is exceedingly fine and small, it is as distinct as it is 
fine. The surfaces of the pieces are charmingly brilliant with a texture more 
beautiful than that of cloth or gold. Many unusual shapes add quaintness to 
the appeal of beauty in this decoration. 



Page Twelve 



down the plate for the next course, with the left hand, 
the table never being without plates until it is cleared 
and crumbed before dessert. 



Compromise Service 

Some articles or whole c<^':rses are served upon the 
table in the English way, while 
others are passed in the Russian way. 
For example, the soup may be 
brought in individual plates from the 
pantry; the meat carved by 
the host, the vegetables 
passed by the waitress; 
the whole salad course 
also passed by her, and 
the dessert served by the hostess. 




Sideboards and Side -Tables 

All dishes and silver which are to be used during the 
meal should be set out upon a sideboard or side-table to 
facilitate service. The sideboard or side-table must be 
protected from heated dishes by an asbestos mat placed 
under the scarf or cover. 

In setting the table for English service, especially, the 
crowding of the dishes must be avoided. A small table 
or piece of furniture called a "butler's assistant," standing 
beside the hostess, may hold all dishes not in actual use 
and will add greatly to the attractiveness of 
the meal and ease of serving. 



No. 8 — After-Dinner CofFee Service. The 
large pitcher and the bowl are provided for hot 
water to heat the cups, as in sketch number two. 

No. 9 — Iced'Tea Service, with bow! for ice 
and dish for lemon. The tall glasses and long* 
handled spoons are made especially for serving 
this beverage. 




Page Thirteen 



^U'.VrJW^^^^ ' 



^^H^EI^SMi^E^; 



^ 



^ 



L^ 



^ 



&1 



^ 



m 



^; 




Pickard China — Encrusted Honeysuckle 

The Encrusted Honeysuckle is one of the most attractive of the new 
decorations from the Pickard Studios. It shows the encrusted surface which 
resembles hammered gold, and to this is added a wide border in a bold and 
beautiful design taken from a famous old Greek motive known as the 
"Honeysuckle". This design however, is so strictly conventionalized that 
it shows little resemblance to the flower of that name. 

Page Fourteen 



^ 



^ 



^ 



^fl 



g 






ES 



Clearing the Table 

In clearing the table the following general rules 
should be observed. 

1 . Do not set one dish upon another. 

2. Do not remove silver and cutlery from the dishes 
in which they have been used. 

3. Remove platter or principal dish first, then smaller 
serving dishes, then individual dishes. 

4. Before the dessert is brought in, everything not 
pertaining directly to it should be removed and the table 
crumbed. 

it should always be remembered that whatever eX' 
pedites service without offending eye or ear is in good 
taste. Larger dishes, therefore, should be lifted with both 
hands; relish dishes, etc., collected upon a small tray; while 
an individual cover consisting of a large plate, small plate 
and perhaps sauce dish may be deftly removed by placing 
both small plates on the tray, held in the left hand, and 
carrying the large plate in the right. 



Removing Crumbs 

If from a bare table, brush crumbs gently into a plate 
or small tray with a folded napkin or the edge of a 
fringed doily, and wipe all wet spots . j ,,„,f| ,f|^ 

carefully. 



If from a tablecloth, a folded 
napkin, or a silver crumb knife may 
be used. In no case is a brush used. 



No. 1 — Porch wagon, for serving afternoon tea 
or porch lunches, 




No. 10 



Page Fifteen 



.^■•!L.L.'i 



T'wrrr 



,V a ;■-/'. ■»?'■■ 



HMiiii^HfeMf 



£S!iSM^L^S^:^ESMi^E! 



^:s 




Pickard China — The White Poppy 

This attractive decoration is done largely in white and gold. The poppy 
heads droop downward so that the inside of the flowers is not visible. At the 
lower edge of the hanging petals, however, is a touch of yellow, suggestive of 
the stamens vv/ithin the flowers. The arrangement is semi'conventional; two 
white poppies with a golden bud between are grouped together and set in a 
wide band of gold. Delicate stem like tracings on the gold band add effective 
touches to this pleasing composition. 



^ 



s? 



'^^m^^^i^^M^^^§^'^ 



Page Sixteen 



Order of Serving People at Table 

The guest of honor, if a man, should be seated at the 
right of the hostess; if a woman, at the right of the host. 

Different rules are preferred by different people; the 
following are accepted: 

1 . All the women served before the men, beginning 
\A/ith the hostess or guest of honor. 

2. The guest of honor or the hostess served first, 
then the next person, irrespective of whether a man 
or woman, continuing thus around the table. 

Serve one course, around the table to the right, the 
next to the left, that no side be always served last. 

The advantage of passing a dish first to the hostess is 
that it enables her to see if it is properly prepared and 
provided with the necessary fork and spoon. 



No. II — Butler's Assistant. When using a butler's assistant a hostess may, by carefully 
planning her menu, serve her family and guests without the service of a maid, and avoid 
the confusion of rising from the table. 

The set of shelves, enclosed on three sides, may be rolled or lifted into place, at the left 
of the hostess' seat, and facing her, after being arranged in the pantry ; or the dishes and 
food may be carried into the dining-room and arranged there on the butler's assistant. 
The accompanying sketch shows the dishes necessary for a four'course luncheon in process 
of serving an imaginary meal. The first course, bouillon, 
was placed on the table before the guests entered the 
dining-room. The sketch shows the bouillon cups and 
spoons removed from the table and placed on the upper 
shelf of the butler's assistant, the main course having been taken 
from that shelf and served to the guests. There was room on 
this shelf for the whole of the course except the coffee cups ; 
these were placed on the bottom shelf with the dessert service. 
The coffee sGfvice upon the top of the butler's assistant. With 
a butler's assistant a chafing dish or an alcohol lamp for heating 
water or for keeping food or coffee hot may be used with ad- 
vantage. Also a coffee percolater. On the third shelf is the 
service for a salad course, with oil, vinegsu', paprica, mustard, 
salt, and bowls for ice and for mixing the salad dressing. The 
cold dessert is placed on the lowest shelf. Fruit and uakc, tarts, or 
one of a number of the gelatine desserts are used with success 
in this manner. The foods should be covered with napkins 
while on the shelves before being served. 



Page Seventeen 




•WPff 



KlL>JKfelil^L^a.:''A^'l- 



.^MM^t^s^s^Es: 








Pickard Etched China — The Floral Scroll 

The popular etched borders, have come principally from the great Eurc 
pean potteries. But since this source of supply has become so uncertain the 
demand has compelled the Pickard Studios to undertake the decoration of dining 
room table china by this elaborate process which demands the most skillful of 
artistic work. The delicate tracery of the design is engraved by hand on a 
metal plate, from which it is worked onto the china and the pattern etched 
into the surface of the pieces. This ware is distinguished by the gold coin 
trademark, "PICKARD ETCHED CHINA." 



ES 



m^^^^^i^^M^^^^'^. 



Page Eighteen 



SUGGESTIONS FOK MENU MAKING 

AUTHORITY SCHOOL OF DOMESTIC 
ARTS AND SCIENCE • CHICAGO 

In planning menus some of the points to be con' 
sidered are: food value, money value, and esthetic value. 

Foods differ in composition, and furnish the materials 
needed by the body for development, for replacing the 
tissues used up by activity, and for supplying the heat 
and energy necessary to maintain the body at its proper 
temperature and enable it to do its work. 

Food values have been considered in the com- 
binations of the following menus, and materials which 
are easily procured have been chosen. By thus utilizing 
that which is to be found in ordinary markets, we are 
assured of materials in good condition. 

Foods which are plentiful and in season are always 
found to be cheap, in good condition, and of fine flavor, 
if carefully selected by the purchaser. 

When considering the esthetic value in planning 
menus, simplicity is of the greatest mp ortance. 

A few courses made up of a limited number of food 
materials, which have been selected with care, well 
prepared, and daintily served, give the most satisfactory 
result. 

Points to be Remembered 

1 . To alternate light and brown, or soft and crisp 
effects. Example: do not serve croquettes, fried 
potatoes, and pastry in one menu. 

2. Avoid repetition of food materials in a menu. 

3. Dry foods, such as croquettes, should be served 
\^ith sauces or with another food which has a sauce 
accompanying it. 

4. Sauces should not be highly seasoned, except in 
special instances, as when they are served with an 
insipid, or flavorless food, or for variety. 



Paga Nineteen 



m^M^^m^^^mm^^^'^ 





Pickard Etched China — Laurel Leaf Border 



^^ 



^ 



^fl 



^ 



^ 






This charming dainty border, as done by the Pickard artists, is one of the 
most attractive dinner ware designs we have offered. To the richness of the 
plain gold band has been added the beauty of the delicate tracery of the etch' 
ing. When monograms, initials or crests are added to china with this border 
the appeal of individuality makes it worthy a place on the finest table. 
Etched and jeweled monogram designs shown on page 22. All Pickard 
Etched China carries the gold coin trade mark "Pickard Etched China." 

Page Twenty 



^^^Tf 



Too great an amount of seasoning, regularly used, 
will overcome the power of discrimination in taste, by 
overshadowing the delicate flavors of foods and by dulling 
the sense oF taste. Further, there will follow a disturb^ 
ance of digestion, caused by an overstimulation of the 
flow of digestive juices. 

5. Acid in some form is an especially enjoyable ad- 
dition to an insipid food, such as fish; or to fats, such as 
pork. Sweets, jellies, or sweet pickles form good com- 
binations of flavors with delicate meats, such as chicken, 
etc. But both sweets and acids should not form an ac- 
companiment at one time, as one will counteract the 
efl^ect of the other. Sometimes the error is even greater, 
and one sees not only both sweet and acid accessories at 
the same time, but salt olives as \^ell. 

6. Variety should be planned for diflierent meals, 
rather than a large number of foods at any one time. 

The body can more easily digest and assimilate the 
simpler diet. 

7. When planning menus, omitting a course will 
give variety just as surely as will the addition of courses. 
For instance, a menu may end with a salad course. If 
one is not accustomed to serving a salad in place of 
dessert, as a last course, it is well to begin to follow the 
idea by using a fruit salad. 

8. An ice may be served with the meat course, as 
a relish. 

9. Accessories, such as nuts, raisins, and cheese, are 
incorrect, unless they are considered with the remainder of 
the menu. They are foods which, when taken in ad- 
dition to a meal, will overload the digestive tract, and 
produce disturbances of digestion. 

These foods should be used either as a part of the 
meal, instead of accessories; or the menu should be 
planned with a consideration of their food value, cutting 
down the other foods in quantity or in number. 

Page Twenty-one 



WPi^g^ i.'| ii .-eil. i PB,i ■ ___■, — - _ ■ ^M^.- ' ^-4!^:'Sm ' 



^^i©^£giSS^E^^^@^E8ii^sssi^asi 







^ 







^ 



1^ 



M 




Fancy Jeweled Script 




Block 




Arabesque 



Pickard Monogram China 

No other decoration upon your China, no matter how expensive, is so 
exclusive as your monogram. Monogram China stands for its individuality, 
your own expression of your individuality, and nowhere in your home is 
your individuality shown to such a degree as in your dining room. The 
chaste simplicity of Pickard White and Gold Dinnerware, in which both 
the gold work and the monogram are designed and executed by the Pickard 
artist, make a strong appeal to the home maker of refined tastes. Ask for 
prices on etched Monogram work. 




^^^^^^m^j^^m§^^^^i 



Page Twenty-two 



Garnishing 

The cultivation of good taste is especially adapted 
to the table. The possibilities are numberless; from 
the selection of the best materials, and most immaculate 
conditions possible, as a fit setting for the foods, to the 
careful preparation of the food materials, and the dainty 
serving of them. 

Food, which is pleasing to the eye has an ad^ 
ded dietetic value, as the flo\A/ of the digestive fluids is 
increased by the inviting appearance of food. 

Some Points to be Considered in Garnishing. 

1. The arrangement of foods, WiW often form a 
gairnish: for example, asparagus timbales arranged on 
a platter in a sauce, with ends of asparagus around the 
dish, forming a border; chops in the center of a platter, 
with buttered peas or cubes of carrots surrounding them; 
or several vegetables on one serving dish may be made 
very pleasing by a tasteful arrangement. 

2. If materials are added as a garnish, they should 
be in small amounts, and few at one time. 

3. All lines of any decoration, should be simple. 

4. A garnish which is either too large in quantity, 
or too intricate in design, gives a heavy appearance, is not in 
good taste, and is as much to be avoided as the other ex- 
treme, which takes no account of the appearance of 
a dish. 




Page Twenty-three 



Some Suggestive Menus 

LUNCHEONS 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Chicken Fillets Sauce Aliemande 

Rice Croquettes 

Tomato Poinsetta Salad French Dressing 

Frozen Pudding Macaroons 

II 

Eggs Italian Style Tomato Sauce 

Buttered Kice and Cheese in Ramekins 

Macedoinc Salad Cooked Oil Dressing 

Almond Souffle Currant Jelly Sauce 

III 

Codfish Souffle Olive or Horseradish Sandwishes 

Peppers, Stuffed with Cabbage Salad 

Cooked Salad Dressing Individual Cherry Pies 

DINNERS 
IV 

Clear Tomato Soup 

Planked Fish Potato Border 

Spinach Timbals Hollandiase Sauce 

Charlotte Pousse and Stra\^'be^ries 

[or other fruit in Season] 

V 

Veal Olives Raw Scalloped Potatoes 

Stuffed Peppers Dinner Pvolls 

Lettuce Salad French Dressing 

Mixed Fruit Ice Sponge Drops 

VI 

Huntington Soup 

Broiled Boned Club Steak Potatoes O'Brion 

Asparagus Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Fruit Salad 

VII 

Fruit Cocktail 

Pvoast Duck Potato Stuffing 

Currant jelly sauce jardiniere, [Cauliflower, Beans, Carrots.) 

Bombe Glace, [Apricot Ice and Charlotte Russe.] 



Page Twenty-four 



Description of Menus 

MENU No. 1 

Frozen Pudding 

Ice cream, made of rich custard with raisins and 
nuts, cut fine. Plain or \A/hipped cream may be used. 

Macaroons 

Almond paste for making macaroons at home is for 
sale in cans. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Made \A/ithout stock, because of sauce allemande 
in which chicken stock is used, is in the same menu. 

Chicken Fillets 

The breasts of a chicken can be divided into two 
large and two small fillets. The two small fillets may be 
skewered together, to form one individual serving of meat, 

The fillets may be sauted in a small amount of olive 
oil or butter or they may be baked. 

To remove the breasts of a chicken, cut the skin 
with a small, sharp knife, and remove the meat from 
the bone cutting close to the breast bone along its whole 
length; then lift and carefully cut the meat from the bone 
on which it lies. The remainder of the chicken may be 
cut into pieces, cooked, and served in any of the ordinary 
way; or it may be cooked, the meat removed from the 
bones, and used in one of the numerous "made dishes." 

Sauce Allemande 

Made of white stock and milk or cream, thickened 
with a small amount of flour and egg yolks. 



Page Twenty-five 



J ' "IJ A.lBM, ' -"li»>WU.S JUM" ^.i:^M -'h 



Kice Croquettes 

Croquettes, when of soft texture, of uniform size 
and shape, carefully breaded and fried a delicate brown 
color, form an attractive dish, which is satisfactory to the 
hostess who prepares her own food, as each step but the 
last, the frying, may be done some hours before serving 
time, thus aiding in the final preparation of the meal. 

Tomato Poinsetta Salad 

Tomatoes, cut in sections, three-quarters of the \A/ay 
down, beginning at the top, with the slices folded back to 
resemble the petals of a flower. Centers may be filled 
with cream cheese, put through a ricer. The salad is 
served on lettuce or cress, and chopped chives may be 
sprinkled over it. 

MENU No. 2 

Eggs Italian Style 

Hard cooked eggs, cut in two lengthwise, are stuffed 
with the highly seasoned yolks. Halves are skewered 
together, rolled in crumbs, egg, and crumbs, and fried in 
deep fat. Skewers should be removed before serving. 

Pvice and Cheese in I\amekins 

Pvice, 'well cooked and seasoned, is put into the 
individual dishes called ramekins, covered with grated 
cheese, put into the oven until the cheese is melted, and 
served immediately. 

Macedoine Salad 

Combination of vegetables, which may be celery, 
carrots, peas, cauliflower. 

The vegetables are cut into small pieces, cubes or 
balls, cooked, placed in separate bowls, and marinated 
in French dressing; then arranged on a platter, covered 
«vith lettuce. The celery is placed in the center, sur- 
rounded by a circle of carrots, then one of peas, with 
the flowerets of the cauliflower separated, and arranged 
as a border. 



Page Twenty-six 



Cooked Oil Dressing 

Is mixed \A/ith each vegetable separately, after the 
French dressing has been drained from it, and before 
it is arranged on the platter. 

Almond Souffle 

Baked or steamed pudding, made of beaten egg 
whites, sugar, and blanched and chopped almonds. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Whipped cream mixed with currant jelly, which 
has been melted and cooled. 

MENU No. 3 

Codfish Souffle 

Rice, steamed with milk, eggs well beaten, season^ 
ings, and shredded codfish. Baked and served with 
melted butter or sauce. 

Olive Sandwiches 

Butter creamed, chopped olives added. 

Horseradish Sandwiches 

Butter creamed, horseradish and lemon juice added. 

Individual Cherry Pies 

Small pie tins with tops four inches in diameter are 
used for these small pies, which are served one to each 
person. The serving of individual pies gives an attractive 
variation of the large pie, cut in pieces for serving. 

MENU No. 4 

Clear Tomato Soup 

Tomatoes, thoroughly cooked and seasoned, are 
strained, and the juice is added to white stock. The 
mixture is cleared with white of egg; result is a clear, 
amoer- colored soup, with tomato flavor. 



Page Twenty-seven 
• f. ' \.. ^ ^'■ -J ■'..y.JL '^^^g' 



Planked Fish 

\A/^hite fish, trout, or shad is selected. The fish is 
cleaned, boned, and arranged skin side down, on a heat- 
ed hardwood plank. The exposed surface of the plank 
is then covered thickly with salt, moistened with sufficient 
NA/ater to hold it together, and the fish is broiled. 

When the fish is partly cooked the salt is removed 
from the plank, and a border of mashed potato is put 
around the fish. 

The plank is then placed in the oven to finish the 
process of cooking the fish, and to reheat the potato. 
The potato border may be put through a pastry bag or 
arranged with a spoon. 

Halves of slices of lemon, one side of which has 
been dipped in parsley cut fine, are placed on the fish at 
regular intervals and near the border. 

A small piece of parsley is placed in the center of 
the fish, or several very small sprigs are added to the 
garnish, if desired. 

Spinach Timbals 

A spinach timbal is a baked or steamed custard. 
With the flavoring and sweetening omitted, and season- 
ings and either fresh cooked, or canned spinach added 
before the custard is cooked. Timbals may also be 
made of other vegetables, fish, chicken, or meat. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

This sauce and the lemon on the fish furnish the 
acid accompaniment to the fish, which would otherwise 
be provided by a salad. Thus the menu is simplifiied 
and a variety is the result. 

Charlotte Russe and Fruit 

This dessert may be moulded in a ring With berries 
in the center of the serving dish and a garnish of the 
leaves of the berries, or of berries surrounding the pudding. 



Page Twenty-eight 



I 



Individual moulds, garnished with berries and leaves 
are especially dainty for a luncheon. 

Fruit may be moulded in the pudding; or crushed 
with sugar, it may be used as a sauce. 

MENU No. 5 

Veal Olives 

Veal cutlets, sometimes called steaks, are cut into 
strips about three inches long, and one and one^ half inches 
wide; stuffed with soft bread crumbs, which have been 
seasoned with salt, pepper, parsley, butter, and onion; 
rolled, skewered or tied, and sauted in bacon or pork 
fat until brown. The meat is then covered with stock 
or v/ater, and cooked slowly, tightly covered, until it is 
tender. A casserole may be used, and the meat cooked 
in the oven. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Tops of peppers are cut off, seeds removed and 
discarded, and the peppers are stuffed with a tomato 
mixture, then covered with buttered soft bread crumbs, 
and baked until softened. The peppers may be parboiled 
before being stuffed. 

Tomato Mixture 

Freshly stewed, or canned tomatoes are cooked with 
a slice of onion. The onion is removed and the tomato, 
either strained or unstrained, is seasoned, and thickened 
with a mixture of melted butter and flour. The filling 
should be of the consistency of a thick sauce. 

Mixed Fruit Ice 

A mixture of oranges, lemons, bananas, and apricots, 
is put through a sieve, added to a syrup made of sugar 
and water, and frozen. Other combinations of fruits 
may be used. The banana will turn dark if used without 
acid and allowed to stand. 



Page Twenty-nine 



MENU No. 6 

Huntington Soup 

Stock, tomatoes and corn. Vegetables are cooked 
with the stock and served in the soup. 

Broiled Boned Club Steak 

Remove bones from t\A/o club steaks, one and one^ 
fourth to one and one- half inches thick. 

Serve the steak, with ske\A/ers removed, on a hot 
platter, garnished \A/ith pototoes. Place these at either end 
of the platter if a long platter is used; or in a circle around 
the meat, if the platter is round. 

Potatoes O' Br ion 
Potatoes cut in balls or cubes, fried in deep fat, then 
sauted with chopped onions and pimentoes. 

Fruit Salad 

Lettuce on round platter, two small heads cut in 
quarters, arranged with cut sides up, in radiating lines 
from the center. This forms sections on the platter 
\A/hich are filled \A/ith white cherries, the green of the 
lettuce showing between the sections of cherries. In the 
center of the platter in placed a mound of red cherries 
and over the whole is poured French dressing, in \A/hich 
is used a combination of fruit juice and vinegar, instead 
of all vinegar. 

The cherries are stoned, and may or may not be 
filled with nuts, preferably hazel nuts, as desired. 
MENU No. 7 

Fruit Cocktail 
A variety of fruit in season may oe used, t\A/o or 
three sorts give the most satisfactory results. The fruit is 
cut into small pieces, and served in a dainty glass cup; 
the juice is strained, added to the cup, and the whole is 
sweetened slightly, by pouring over it a sugar and water 
syrup, which has been boiled and cooled. Serve very 
cold. 



Page Thirty 



Roast Duck 

A young, fat duck, with the webbing of the feet soft, 
should be selected. The duck is dressed, stuffed with 
potato stuffing, and trussed, as a chicken, for roasting. 

Potato Stuffing 

Hot, mashed potatoes, well seasoned with salt, pep^ 
per, onion juice, chopped parsley, and butter. One or 
t\^o eggs may be added to give richness and hold the 
mixture together. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

To a brown sauce foundation, from VA/hich onion 
has been omitted, add currant jelly, which has been 
melted over hot water. 

Jardiniere 

Cauliflower, beans, carrots. 

Cook the vegetables separately, season each with 
butter, pepper, and salt. Arrange with cauliflower in 
the center of a platter, the carrot cubes at each end, and 
the green, string beans on either side of the platter. The 
platter should be passed, and each person allowed to serve 
himself to the sort and amount of vegetables desired. 

Apricot Ice and Bombe Glace 

A mould with a cover is lined with a fruit ice, and the 
center is filled with plain ice cream the whole may be 
covered with the ice, if color is desired surrounding the 
center of white. The mould is tightly covered, to pre- 
vent salt from entering; a strip of cloth, dipped in melted 
paraffin, or lard is often placed around the joining of the 
mould and cover; or paraffin paper may be used to cover 
the contents before putting on the lid. 

The mould is packed in equal parts of salt and ice 
for two to three hours' time, depending upon the shape 
and size of mould. 

For variation, the mould may be lined with any of 
the fruit ices or ice creams, and the center may be filled 
with charlotte russe or any of the various ice creams or 
frozen puddings. The different combinations make a 
very great variety of desserts possible. 



Pag-e Thirty-one 



General Suggestions 

Different salad dressings may be chosen for the 
salads by those x^^ho do not care for olive oil, but the oil 
is a nutritious article of food, and adds much to the 
delicacy of a salad. If the taste for olive oil is an ac- 
quired one, it is well to cultivate it. 



Breads and P\o\\s 

Breads and rolls may be varied to suit the idea of 
the hostess, and in planning menus, if use is made of the 
different sorts, and forms, which are possible, they will 
be correspondingly improved. Even the baking powder 
biscuit may be made into a variety of shapes and sorts. 
It may be rolled thin and cut into dainty rounds or oblong 
pieces, baked a delicate brown, and served with a salad; 
or cheese may be added to it, which gives it a greater 
food value. 

The cream puff mixture may be baked in various 
sizes and shapes, and these may be used as cases for 
creamed meats, or they may be filled with a cold mixture 
and used in place of sandwiches. 

Even the potato lends itself to many methods of 
preparation. 

Beverages 

Beverages should be decided upon by the hostess, 
and served according to her own idea. 

The serving of coffee, in the living room or library, 
on the porch or lawn, after a luncheon or dinner, adds 
to the pleasure of the company, and is a custom that is 
becoming universal. 

For luncheon, especially, fruit juices are often made 
into a cold drink, and served or a mixture of iced tea 
and fruit juices is used. 

The Commonwealth Press, Chicago 
Page Thirty-two 



