
CHAFING-DISH' 



RECIPE 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 



James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



TV ooe 1 5""*" University Library 
I A o2o.L5 



Chafing-dish recipes, 




3 1924 000 500 540 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000500540 




GESINE LEMCKE. 



CHAFING-DISH 
EECIPE 8 



BT 



GESINE LEMCKE 



AUTHOR OF 

DS93EKTS AKX> SAXADS, AKB TH£ BUBOFEAN AND AJlEBICAN CUI3INI: 

PBINGIPAL AND OWNER OF THE BROOKLYN AND NEW TORK COOKING OOLLEQES 



The culinary science unfolds itself generally 
with the human culture, and offers an image 
of the intellect of the human race. 



NEW YORK AND LONDON 

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 
1912 



CoPYEiaHT, 1896, 1912, by 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 



Printed in the United States of America 



PEEFACE. 

It is better to have a plain dish with love, 
Than the finest dish with hate. 

The chafing disli is a convenient and useful article both for 
men and women ; it is so simple that with a little practice any 
one can become in a short time an expert in the art of chafing- 
dish cooking. In using the chafing dish it is necessary to have 
two bowls, a small dish for butter, one for salt, one for pepper, and 
one for flour, a long wooden spoon (called a chafing-dish spoon), 
a knife, a fork, and a few plates, a small milk or cream pitcher, 
and a jar of beef extract. All the ingredients should be got 
ready beforehand, to save confusion and time. 

The best chafing dishes have two pans, the lower one for hot 
water and the upper one, called the blazer. The latter is often 
used without the hot-water pan when the contents will not be 
injured by the direct fiame beneath. The Asbesta lamp of the 
best chafing dishes hold about one gill of alcohol and will burn 
from an hour to an hour and a half without refilling if it 
has been properly filled at the beginning ; particular attention 
should be paid to this part, as it is very annoying to have to 
refill the lamp while the cooking is going on. 



lii 



CONTENTS. 



Sauces : 

Bordelaise 1 

Marrow — How to blanch . . 1 

Traviette 1 

Vinegretti .... 2 

Beamaise 2 

Tartare 3 

Maitre-d'Hotel Butter . . 3 

Tomato k TAUemande . , 3 
Pudding Sauces : 

Snow 3 

Vanilla 3 



Tulip 

Sherry-wine 

Orange-cream . . 

St. Celia .... 

Transparent 

Toronto .... 

Tanta .... 

Daisy 

SheU Fish : 

Oysters, Creamed, on Toast 

Stew .... 

Stew with Milk . 

Fried, k la Maitre d'H6tel 

Creamed, Plain 

k la Poulette . 

k la Carey 

k la Cress 

Sant^ed . 

Fricasseed 

k la Kewburg. 



Shell Fish (Continiied). 
Clams, Chowder 

Bisque . 

Stew 

on Toast 

Hot Clam Pepper Boast 

k la Newburg . 

k la Maryland 

k la Baltimore 
Terrapin k la Maryland 

k la Baltimore 
Frogs, Fried . 

k la Poulette . 
Shrimps k la Minardo 

with Eggs 

and Oysters . 

with Mushrooms . 
Scallops, Fried . 
Lobster k la St. Hilaire 

k la Citizen . 

Creamed 

Creamed, Plain 

k la Newburg . 

Chops . 

k la Americaine . 

k la Yiennoise 

k la Maryland 

k la Banhofer 

k la Bousillon 

k la Bordeaux 

& la Britannia 

Curry . 



. 8 
. 9 
. 9 
. 9 
. 10 
. 10 
. 10 
. 11 
. 11 
. 11 
. 11 
. 13 
. 13 
. 13 
. 13 
. 13 
. 13 
. 13 
. 14 
. 14 
. 14 
. 15 
. 15 
. 16 
. 16 
. 16 
. 17 
. 17 
. 18 
. 18 
. 19 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



Shell Fish (^Conh 

Lobster & la Tirole . . .19 
a, la Malta . . . .20 
Curry, of Canned . . .20 
Canned a la Cream . . 20 
k TAUemande . . .30 
Soft-Shell Crabs in Batter . 21 

Pried 21 

k la Maitre d'Hotel . . 21 
Fish : 

Eels, Pried . . . .21 
Eels, Stewed . . . .22 
Pish, Pried . . . .22 
Halibut a, la Maitre d'H6tel . 23 
Sardines en Crovltons . . 23 
Shad Roe with Green Peas . 23 
h la Maitre-d'Hotel Butter . 24 
with Black Butter. . . 24 
Plounders a la Dresden . . 24 
Pillet of Sole k la Traviette . 25 
Pinnan Haddie . . . .25 
Dried Haddock. . . .25 
Codfish a la Cream . . .26 

Cakes 26 

Meat: 

Beefsteak with Mushroom 

Sauce 26 

Pried 27 

Bavarian . . . .27 
with Onions . . . .27 

Minced 28 

Hamburger . . . .28 
Luncheon Gulash k la Bedford 28 
Bagout of Cooked Beef . . 29 
Tripe k la Bechamel . . .39 

Pried 39 

Corned Beef Hash . . .30 
Lamb Curry . . . .80 

Minced 30 

Chops, Broiled . . .31 
Pork Chops with Pried Apples 31 
Mutton Kidney k la Mayence . 31 
Lamb Kidneys with fine Herbs 33 
Beef Kidney Saute . . .32 



Heat (Continuec^. 

Lamb Kidney Saute . . .82 

Mutton Kidney Sautd, Plain . 33 

Veal Steak . . . .33 

Wiener Schnitzel . . .33 

Wiener Schnitzel Garnde . 34 

Veal Cakes . . . .34 

Sweetbreads — How to prepare 

and blanch. . . .84 

Saute 84 

with Pea Sauce . . .35 

k la Bearnaise . , .35 

k la Ponchonette . . .35 

k I'Allemande . . .86 

k la Maitre d'Hotel . . 36 

Calf's Brain — How to blanch . 36 

with Green Peas . . .37 

with Black Butter . . 37 

k I'Allemande . . .37 

k 1' Alfonso . . . .37 

Liver Saute . . . .38 

Liver Stew, or Hash . . 38 

Liver, Pried . . . .38 

Pried Liver and Bacon . . 39 

Calf's Liver, Broiled . . 39 

k la Maitre d'Hotel . . 39 

Chicken, Birds, and Oame : 

Chicken with Rice . . .39 

Potted 40 

Broth 40 

k la Cream . . . .40 
Saute k la PinanciSre . ■ .41 
SautS k I'ltalienne . . 41 
Fricassee with Dumplings . 41 
I'Hongroise . . . .42 

Saute 42 

Curry 43 

Silan Curry . . . .43 
Chicken Livers with Croutons 43 
Livers en Bouchees . . 44 
Livers k I'Espagnole . . 44 
Livers a la Zulano . . .45 
Creamed Chicken . . .45 
with Oysters . . . ,45 



CONTENTS. 



Vll 



Chicken, Birds, and Game 

(Continued). 
Chicken Rissotto 
Quails k la Marazina 
Squab 

Grouse en Spaghetti. 
Potted Rabbit . 
Venison Steak, Broiled. 

k la Maitre d'H6tel 

with Currant- Jelly Sauce 
Bouquet . 
Croutons . 
Vegetables : 
Potato Balls 

French Fried 

Hashed . 

Lyonnaise 
Tomatoes, Pried 

Farci de Poulette . 

with Mushrooms . 
Asparagus . 

with Vinaigrette Sauce 
Green Peas 
Creamed Com . 
Mushroom Bouchees 

Broiled . 

Saute 
Spaghetti I'ltalienne 
Seasoning Salt . 
Boiled Rice 
Eggs and Omelets: 

Eggs, Scrambled, with Boiled 
Ham 

with Bacon . . . . 

a I'Americaine 

with Bread Crumbs 

with Pine Herbs . 
Ham and Eggs . . . . 
Scrambled Eggs with Toma- 
toes 

Boiled Eggs with Tomato Pep- 
per Sauce . . . . 
Poached Eggs . . . . 

with Tomato Pepper Sauce . 



Eggs and Omelets [Continued). 
Scrambled Eggs with Smoked 

Beef 57 

Eggs au Miroir . . . .57 

Fritee 57 

French Omelet . . . .58 
German Omelet . . .58 
Oyster Omelet . . . .58 
Cheese Omelet . . . .59 

No. 3 59 

Spanish Omelet . . .59 
Tomato Omelet , . .60 

No. 3 60 

Kidney Omelet . . . .60 
Rum Omelet . . , .60 
Strawberry Omelet . ■ .61 
with Whipped Cream , . 61 
Nut Omelet . . . .61 
Welsh Rarebit . . . .61 
Cheese Pondu . . . .63 
Canapes and Sandwiches: 

Canape Sauce . . . .63 
a la Minden . . . .63 
k la Russie . . . .63 
k la Richelieu . . .63 
of Sardines . . . .64 
k la Bismarck . . .64 
a, 1' Anchovies. . . .64 
Sandwiches . . . .65 
Chicken or Turkey . . 65 

Lettuce 65 

Lenten 66 

k la Brigum . . > .66 
Mayonnaise . . . .66 
Salads : 

Neapolitan . . . .67 
k la Navarro . . . .67 

Lettuce 68 

Egg 68 

Cucumber 68 

Potato 68 

Tomato 69 

Desserts : 

Cocoa Pudding . . . .69 



viii 


CONTENTS 






PAOB 




FAGS 


Desserts (ConUm,ed). 




Punches and Uized Drinks 


Apple Pannaquets . 


. 69 


(Oontirmed). 




Rolled Pancakes 


. 69 


Iced Sherry with Bitters 


. 77 


Snow Pudding . 


- 70 


Rum Sour 


. . 77 


Vienna Orange Cream 


. 70 


Whisky Cobbler 


. 77 


Apple Fritters . 


. 70 


Brandy Cup . 


. 77 


Manilla Pudding . 


. 71 


Rum Soda 


. . 78 


Dampf Nudeln , 


. 71 


Orange Soda . 


. 78 


Omelet Souffle . 


. 73 


Champagne Velvet . 


. . 78 


Strawberry Pudding 


. 72 


Fedora 


. 78 


Plum Pudding . 


. 73 


Eggnog , 


. 78 


Neapolitan Pudding 


. 73 


Pousse Cafe 


. 78 


Cream Tarts . 


. 73 


No.3 . . . 


. 78 


Peach Float . 


. 73 


Milk Punch . 


. 79 


Pan Doughdy . 


. 73 


with Egg . 


. 79 


How to steam and pr 


spare 


Hot Orange Punch . 


. 79 


Shredded "Wheat for 


use . 73 


Champagne Punch . 


- 79 


Shredded "Wheat with Mi 


Ik . 74 


Fruit Punch . 


. 79 


with Creamed Chicken, 


Tur- 


Cold Claret Punch . 


. 80 


key, or Veal . 


; 74 


Plain Claret Punch . 


. 80 


to be used in Place of ' 


roast 


Hot Claret Punch . 


. 80 


or Croiitons . 


. 74 


Rum Punch,Hot 


. 80 


Canape Minardo 


. 74 


Orangeade 


. 80 


Mikadanda . 


. 75 


Plain .... 


. 80 


Punches and Xlized Drin 


ks: 


Strawberry Punch . 


. 80 


Martini Cocktail 


. 75 


Hot Lemonade . 


. 81 


Dry Martini Cocktail 


. 75 


Cold Lemonade 


. 81 


Bronx Cocktail . 


. 75 


Fine Lemonade 


. 81 


Sazarac Cocktail 


. 75 


Soda Lemonade 


. 83 


Manhattan 


. 75 


CofEee .... 


. 83 


Iced Sherry 


. 76 


Tea 


. 83 


Iced Orange . 


. 76 


Cocoa .... 


. 83 


Apple Toddy . 


. 76 


Chafing Dish Menus: 




Whisky Toddy. 


. 76 


Menu No. 1 . . . 


. 83 


Brandy Flip . 


. 76 


Menu No. 3 . 


. 83 


Sherry Flip 


. 76 


Menu No. 3 . . . 


. 83 


Sherry, Plain . 


. 77 


Menu No. 4 . . . 


. 83 


Brandy Cream Soda . 


. 77 


Chafing Dish Lunch 


. 84 


Refresher 


. 77 


Elaborated Lunch . 


. 84 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES. 



SAUCES. 



Bordelaise Sauce. — Put 1 gill of red wine with 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onions in the blazer, add a small bouquet, 
place the blazer over the lamp, reduce it by boiling to one half, 
then pour it into a bowl ; put 1 tablespoonf ul butter in the 
blazer, when melted add 1 tablespoonful flour, % bay leaf, and 
12 whole peppers ; stir and cook 5 minutes, add 1 pint of 
chicken or veal broth, '/^ teaspoonfid beef extract, and the con- 
tents of the bowl ; cook 10 minutes, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt and a pinch of Cayenne pepper, then strain. Add 
two ounces of blanched marrow cut into slices, then serve. 

Marroiv — How to Blanch. — Out some beef marrow into 
slices ; place the water pan half full of water over the lamp ; 
when it boils, put in the marrow, cook about 2 minutes, then 
carefully remove the marrow, and put it into the sauce. 

Traviette Sauce. — Put 1 cup of canned tomatoes in the 
blazer, add 1 teaspoonf ul butter, Vi teaspoonful white pepper, the 
same of salt and sugar ; cook 6 to 8 minutes, then rub the toma- 
toes through a sieve, clean the blazer, and again place it over the 
lamp, with 1 fine chopped onion, 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vine- 
gar and 8 coarsely pounded whole peppers, reduce by boiling till 
nearly dry, then remove, put the contents of the blazer into a 
small saucepan, add the yolks of 4 eggs, set the saucepan in hot 
water, add by degrees 4 ounces butter, in small pieces, and stir 



2 SAUCES. 

constantly ; add 4 tablespoonfuls warm water, 1 teasp6onf ul liquid 
beef extract, 1 even teaspoonful salt; set the saucepan in the 
chafing-dish pan of hot water, place both over the lamp, and stir 
till it thickens, then remove and strain through a fine sieve into 
a bowl, add the tomatoes, and last 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls whipped 
cream, and serve. 

Vinegretti Sauce. — Put the yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg 
into a small bowl ; rub it fine ; add gradually 3 tablespoonfuls 
oil ; then add 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped shallots or white 
onion, 1 even tablespoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful white pep- 
per, 3 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, and serve. 

Sauce B^arnaise. — Place 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped 
shallots in the blazer, add 8 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar and 
8 whole-crushed peppers ; reduce by boiling till nearly dry ; re- 
move and pour the contents of blazer in a small saucepan, and 
when nearly cold add the yolks of 4 eggs ; have the chafing-dish 
pan half full of boiling water, put the saucepan in the water pan, 
stir, and add 4 ounces of butter in small pieces ; season with 1 
even teaspoonful salt and % teaspoonful grated nutmeg ; stir till 
the butter is melted ; add 1 teaspoonful beef extract mixed with 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water; then place the pan with the 
saucepan over the lamp and stir till the sauce is thick ; remove 
and strain through a fine sieve. Serve with broiled steak or 
fish. 

Tartare Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream, add 
1 even teaspoonful salt, then gradually, while stirring constantly, 
drop by drop, y4 cupful oil, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
then Va teaspoonful English mustard, % teaspoonful white pep. 
per, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped shallots or onion, 1 tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped capers ; mix well and serve. If handy add 2 or 
3 tablespoonfuls whipped cream. 



SAUCES. 3 

Maitre d'H6tel Butter.— Put 1 ounce butter into a 
small bowl, stir to a cream, add slowly 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice, a few drops at a time, Vi teaspoonful grated nutmeg, and 1 
teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley. 

Tomato Sauce h I'Allemande. — Place the blazer with 
Vj can tomatoes over the lamp, add 1 teaspoonful butter, Va tea- 
spoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar, cook 15 
minutes ; mix *^ teaspoonful cornstarch with 1 tablespoonful cold 
water, add it to the tomatoes, cook 3 minutes, then press the to- 
matoes through a sieve ; return the tomatoes to the blazer ; mix 
the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 tablespoonful cold water, add it to the 
blazer, stir until nearly boiling, remove at once, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls whipped cream or 1 teaspoonful unsweetened condensed 
milk, and serve. 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Snow Sauce. — Boil 1 cup of sugar with Va cup of water 
till it forms a thread between two fingers ; beat the whites of 2 
eggs to a stifE froth, add slowly, while beating constantly, the hot 
sugar sirup to the whites, add last 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 
and 2 tablespoonfuls white wine or orange juice. 

Vanilla Sauce. — Put 1 pint of milk with the yolks of 3 
eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, % teaspoonful cornstarch in the 
blazer ; mix well, then place the blazer over the hot-water pan 
and stir till the sauce begins to thicken and just about to boil ; 
care must be taken not to let it boil ; then remove, add 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla, and set aside to cool. 

Tulip Sauce. — Mix in the blazer 1 pint of milk with the 
yolks of 3 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; place the blazer over 
the water pan and stir till it begins to thicken. In the meantime 
beat the 3 whites to a stiff froth, add the hot mixture slowly to 



4 SAUCES. 

the whites while beating constantly, add 1% teaspoonful vanilla, 
and serve when cold. 

Sherry-wine ^auce. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg to a cream 
with Yj cupful powdered sugar, add '^ cupful sherry wine, beat 
the white to a stiflE froth, add slowly the wine mixture to the 
beaten whites, add last '^/^ cupful whipped cream. 

Orange-cream Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a 
cream with 6 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar, add 1 cupful orange 
juice, 2 tablespoonf uls lemon juice; beat the whites to a stiflE 
froth, add slowly the orange mixture, while beating constantly, 
to the whites, and serve. 

St. Celia Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream 
with 6 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar, add 3 tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice, 3 tablespoonfuls raspberry juice, and, last, 1 cupful whipped 
cream. 

Transparent Sauce. — Mix in a small bowl 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch with % gill of cold water, add 1 cup boiling water ; 
pour the contents in the blazer and cook till clear ; remove the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls white wine, and 4 tablespoonfuls straw- 
berry or raspberry syrup. The wine may be omitted if not handy, 

Toronto Sauce.— Boil 1 cup of milk in the blazer, add a 
sprinkle of salt and Vi cup of sugar; mix 1 teaspoonful corn- 
starch with 2 tablespoonfuls cold milk, add it while stirring con- 
stantly to the boiling milk, cook a few minutes ; remove from 
fire, add Va cup of raspberry sirup and a little pink coloring. In 
place of raspberry sirup strawberry juice or sirup may be taken. 

Tanta Sauce. — Boil 1 cupful sugar with % cupful water 
till it forms a thread between two fingers, beat the whites of 2 
eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly, while beating constantly, the 



SHELL PISH. 5 

boiKng sugar to the whites ; continue the beating and add slowly 
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls strawberry 
juice or sirup and serve. 

Daisy Sauce. — Boil Yj cup of sugar in 1 cup of milk, mix 1 
teaspoonful of cornstarch with a little cold milk, add it to the 
boiling milk, stir and cook 2 minutes, beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a stiff froth, add slowly, while beating constantly, the hot sauce 
to the whites, add 1 teaspoonful yanilla extract. Serve either hot 
or cold. 



SHELL FISH. 

Creamed Oysters on Toast. — Drain 16 oysters in a 
sieve ; melt '/a tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add % table- 
spoonful flour, cook 2 minutes ; add '/g cupful milk and Ya cupful 
oyster liquor, season with '/g teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white 
pepper, stir and cook till smooth ; add the oysters, cook a few 
minutes, pour over 4 slices of buttered toast, and serve. 

Oyster Ste^. — For 2 stews procure 1 pint of oysters ; re- 
move them from their liquor with a fork and place them in the 
blazer, strain the liquor over them, add % cupful cold water, 3 
tablespoonfuls rolled crackers, *^ tablespoonful butter, ^/^ teaspoon- 
ful salt, and Vg teaspoonful white pepper ; let it stand 10 minutes, 
then put the blazer over the lamp and cook till the oysters are 
plump and the edges curl ; take 2 soup plates and put into each 
1 tablespoonful milk, pour in the oysters, and serve with oyster 
crackers and butter ; have also some fine shredded cabbage, pep- 
per, salt, vinegar, and catsup on the table. 

Oyster Milk Stew. — Place the blazer with Ya pint of milk 
over the lamp, when it boils pour the milk into a bowl and set 



6 SHELL FISH. 

aside ; put 1 pint of solid oysters with their strained juice in the 
blazer, add 1 teaspoonful butter, 3 tablespoonfuls finely rolled 
crackers, Yj teaspoonful salt, '^U teaspoonful white pepper ; place 
the blazer over the lamp and cook till the oysters begin to ruffle, 
add the hot milk and serve. 

Fried Oysters d la Maltre d'Hdtel.— Procure 12 
large fresh oysters ; lift them out of their liquor with a fork, lay 
them on a napkin to absorb lihe moisture, then lay them on a 
board, dust them with flour, dip them separately into beaten 
egg, then in finely rolled crackers, let them lay for a little while 
on the board to dry ; then place the blazer with % tabiespoonf ul 
butter and ^/i tablespoonful lard over the lamp, as soon as melted 
put in as many oysters as conveniently will go into the blazer with- 
out crowding and fry them light brown on both sides; re- 
move and lay the oysters on a hot dish, and spread over 
each oyster a little maitre d'hotel butter (see Sauces). (Fried 
oysters may be served plain with catsup.) Serve with bread 
and butter. 

Creamed Oysters, Plain. — Procure a pint of medium- 
sized oysters ; remove the oysters with a fork from their liquor 
into the blazer, add % teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper, 
strain the liquor, add Va cup of the liquor to the oysters and Va 
cup of milk ; mix y^ tablespoonful butter with % tablespoonful 
flour to a paste ; place the blazer over the lamp, and when it be- 
gins to boil, add the butter and flour, stir and cook till the oys- 
ters begin to ruffle, which will take about 2 minutes' cooking ; 
extinguish the lamp, and serve either over toast or with crackers. 

Oysters ^ la Poulette. — Place 20 large oysters in the 
blazer over the lamp, add Vs tablespoonful butter, y^ even tea^ 
spoonful salt, '^/^ even teaspoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonful 
lemon juice, let the oysters come to a boil, instantly remove, pour 



SHELL PISH. 7 

the oysters into a bowl, and set aside ; return the blazer to the 
lamp, with % tablespoonful butter and % tablespoonful flour, 
cook 2 minutes, add Va cupful oyster liquor and % cupful mush- 
room liquor, stir until smooth, add a small bouquet, 6 whole pep- 
pers, % teaspoonful salt, and the same of nutmeg, % cupful fine 
sliced mushrooms, cook 5 minutes from the time it begins to 
boil, remove bouquet and peppers, drain the oysters, add them to 
the blazer, mix the yolks of 2 eggs with % gill of cream, add 
them to the oysters, add last 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley, 
and serve at once with crackers, or toast, or crescents of puff 
paste, croiatons, or finger rolls. 

Oysters k la Carey. — Place the blazer with % tablespoon- 
ful butter over the hot-water pan, add 12 large oysters without 
their liquor, season with % teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful white 
pepper, and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; cover and let the oys- 
ters come to a boU, then take out the oysters and place them 
into a dish, leaving the broth in the blazer ; mix 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch with 1 teaspoonful butter, add it to the oyster broth, 
and cook 2 minutes; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with *^ cupful 
cream, add it to the blazer, stir until nearly boiling, add the oys- 
ters, and serve with crackers. 



D, 



Oysters h la Cress. — Place 10 large oysters without their 
liquor into the blazer, add V2 tablespoonful Khine wine, % even 
teaspoonful salt, a little white pepper, % tablespoonful butter ; 
put the blazer over the lamp and let the oysters come to a boil, 
then pour them into a bowl, return the blazer over the lamp, 
with 1 teaspoonful butter and 1 teaspoonful flour, stir and cook 
2 minutes, add Vj cupful oyster liquor, ^i bay leaf, 4 whole pep- 
pers, Vi teaspoonful salt ; cook 5 miimtes, remove bay leaf and 
peppers, add the oysters without their broth, mix the yolk of 1 
egg with 2 tablespoonfuls cream, add it to the oysters, let it re- 



8 SHELL PISH. ' 

main 1 minute longer over the lamp, add 1. teaspoonf ul lemon 
juice and serve with crackers or toast. 

Oysters Saut^ed. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add 12 or 16 large oysters, season with % even teaspoon- 
ful salt, Vi even teaspoonful white pepper, cook until the oysters 
look plump and the edges begin to curl ; serve at once with 
crackers or on toast. 

Oysters Fricasseed.— Melt % tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add Va tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1 
cup of cream or milk, stir until smooth, season with Yj even tea- 
spoonful salt and a little white pepper, add 16 large oysters with- 
out their liquor, cook until they are plump and begin to ruffle ; 
add last the yolk of 1 egg, mixed with 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 
serve with crackers. 

Oysters k la Newburg. — Place 12 large oysters without 
their liquor in the blazer, add % tablespoonful butter, Va giU of 
Khine wine, season with Yg even teaspoonful salt, ^/^ even tea- 
spoonful pepper, cook until the oysters begin to crimp and are 
plump ; then pour them into a bowl and set aside. Keturn the 
blazer to the lamp, with Va tablespoonful butter, Va giU of sliced 
mushrooms, 1 fine-sliced truffle, Va gill of mushroom liquor ; 
cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with % gill of cream, 
add them to the mushrooms, drain the oysters, add them to the 
blazer, stir until nearly boiling, add a little Cayenne pepper, and 
serve with fleurons or finger rolls. 

Clam ChoTTder. — One pint clams, Vi cupful fine-cut car- 
rots, 2 tablespoonf uls fine-cut celery, *^ cupful fine-cut onions, 1 
cup fine-cut potatoes, Va cup tomatoes, IVa pint of boiling water, 1 
tablespoonful fine-cut larding pork, Vi teaspoonful salt, % even 
teaspoonful pepper, ^i teaspoonful thyme. Place the pork into 



SHELL FISH. 9 

the chafing-dish pan over the lamp, fry until it turns straw-color, 
then add 1^2 pint of boiling water, the celery, carrots, and 
onions, cook until the carrots are done, then add the potatoes, 
salt, and pepper ; cook 10 minutes ; add the tomatoes, cook 20 
minutes, then add the fine-chopped clam, and their liquor, a lit- 
tle Cayenne pepper, and the thyme. Mix 1 teaspoonful butter 
with 1 teaspoonful fiour, add it to the chowder, and if necessary 
add more salt, boil 5 minutes, and serve. If too thick add more 
water. 

Clam Bisque. — Put 1 tablespoonful grated carrot, 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion, and 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer ; place the blazer over the lamp ; cover and cook till the 
onions are done without browning, stirring occasionally ; then 
add % tablespoonful flour, stir a few minutes, add Va pint boiling 
water, Va pint clam bouillon or % pint fine-chopped fresh clams 
with their liquor, cook 5 minutes, then strain and return the 
bisque to blazer, and again place it over the lamp ; mix the yolk 
of 1 egg with Ya gill of cream, add it to the bisque, remove and 
serve with oyster crackers. 

Clam Stew. — Chop fine 1 pint of clams, and strain the 
liquor ; place the blazer with 1 fine-chopped white onion, 1 table- 
spoonful fine-cut celery, and y^ tablespoonful butter over the 
lamp, cover and cook 5 minutes without browning ; add Yj table- 
spoonful fiour, cook and stir a few minutes ; then add Ya pint of 
water and the clam liquor ; also Ya pint fine-cut potatoes, Y4 tea- 
spoonful white pepper, and boil until the potatoes are done ; add 
the chopped clams and cook 6 minutes, add last Ya cupful cream 
or milk or 1 tablespoonful unsweetened condensed milk, extin- 
guish the lamp, and serve with crackers. 

Clams on Toast. — Eemove the bodies from 20 soft-shell 
clams, chop the hard part fine ; place the blazer with 1 table- 



10 SHELL PISH. 

spoonful butter and 1 tablespoonf ul fine-chopped onion over the 
lamp, cook 5 minutes without browning, add the chopped clams 
and the bodies of the clams, season with Yj teaspoonf ul salt, % 
teaspoonf ul pepper, cover and cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 
eggs with % cup of cream or milk, add it to the clams, stir carefully 
for a few minutes, taking care not to let it boil again, pour over 
4 slices of buttered toast, and serve. If toast is not handy, fry 4 
slices of bread light brown in butter and pour the clams over it. 

Hot Clam Pepper Boast. — Melt y^ tablespoonful butter 
in a chafing dish, put in 2 small slices of bread, and fry them 
light brown ; lay them on a hot plate, cover, and set aside. Place 
1 teaspoonful butter in the blazer with 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped green pepper, a 
small piece of bruised garlic the size of a white bean ; cook 5 
minutes without brewing, then add 4 tablespoonfuls clam juice, 
Va teaspoonful liquid beef extract, a pinch of salt, and the same 
of pepper ; remove the bodies from 6 large clams (soft-shell are 
the best for this), chop the hard part fine, and add it with the 
bodies to the blazer; cook 5 minutes, pour it over the fried 
bread, and serve. 

Clams k la Newburg.— Place 12 soft-shell clams with their 
own liquor in the blazer, set the blazer over the lamp ; when they 
begin to boil, remove the clams with a skimmer ; pour the clam 
liquor into a dish, set the blazer over the hot-water pan with Va 
tablespoonful butter ; when melted, add the clams, sprinkle over 
y^ tablespoonful lemon juice, ^/^ teaspoonful pepper, cover, and 
cook 2 minutes ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with 2 or 3 tablespoon- 
fuls cream, add to the clams, and let it remain for a few minutes, 
then serve with crackers, toast, or croutons. 

Clams k la Maryland. — Remove the bodies from 20 soft 
clams, place the bodies, with 1 tablespoonful butter, in the blazer. 



SHELL FISH. U 

add 1 tablespoonf ul fine-cut truffles, 2 tablespoonf uls sherry wine, 
V^ teaspoonful pepper, cook 8 minutes, being careful not to stir 
them ; mix % cupful cream with the yolks of 2 eggs, add it to 
the clams, let it remain a few minutes to heat, but not boil, then 
serve. 

Clams h la Baltimore. — Eemove the bodies from 24 
large fresh soft-shell clams, throw the rest away; melt 1 large 
tablespoonful butter in the chafing dish, add the clams, % tea- 
spoonful salt, 6 whole peppers, and */2 bay leaf, % teaspoonful 
white pepper, cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 3 eggs with % 
cupful cream, add it to the clams, add 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 
let it remain a few minutes, stirring it carefully, taking care not 
to let it boil after the eggs have been added, remove the bay leaf 
and peppers, and serve with crackers. 

Terrapin k la Maryland. — Melt % tablespoonful butter 
in the blazer, add 1 pint of cooked terrapin, 3 tablespoonfuls 
sherry wine, 1 even teaspoonful salt, cover, and cook 5 minutes ; 
rub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs fine, mix with 1 cupful rich 
sweet cream, add it to the terrapin, cook 5 minutes, and serve. 

Terrapin k la Baltimore. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, 
add 1 pint of prepared terrapin, add 2 fine-cut truffles, 1 even 
teaspoonful salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, % gill of sherry 
wine, cover, and cook 6 minutes ; mix the yolks of 4 eggs with 
% pint of sweet cream, add it to the terrapin, stir for a few 
minutes without letting it boil, then serve. 

Frogs, Fried. — Season % dozen well-cleaned frogs' legs 
with 1 teaspoonful salt ; let them lie % hour, then dust with 
fiour, dip in beaten egg, and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in half 
lard and half butter to a fine golden color; serve with maitre 
d'hote! butter or tartare sauce, 



12 SHELL PISH. 

Frogs h la Poulette.— Season 6 frogs' legs with 1 tear 
spoonful salt and a little pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonf ul butter in 
the blazer over the lamp, put in the frogs' legs, add Va gill of 
white wine, cover, and cook till done without browning ; remove 
the blazer, place the lower pan with % tablespoonful butter over 
the lamp, add % tablespoonful flour, stir 1 minute ; add % cup of 
white broth, or water, with a little beef extract, % gill of mush- 
room liquor, % bay leaf, 6 whole peppers, Vi teaspoonful salt, boil 
5 minutes, remove bay leaf and peppers ; mix the yolk of 1 egg 
with % tablespoonful lemon Juice, add them to the sauce, add 1 
teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley and 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 
turn down the lamp, pour the sauce over the frogs, and serve 
with toast, fried bread, or finger rolls. 

Shrimps h la Minardo.— Einse off with cold water Vj 
pint of canned shrimps, cut them lengthwise in half ; melt 1 ta- 
blespoonful butter in the blazer, add the shrimps, season with Yg 
teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper, cover, and cook 8 
minutes, stirring them often. Beat 6 eggs with an egg beater 
till foamy, add 6 tablespoonfuls milk or water, a little salt, beat 
again for a few minutes ; pour the egg mixture over the shrimps 
as soon as they begin to set, draw with a spoon from the side to 
the center of pan when they begin to thicken, sprinkle over 4 
tablespoonfuls grated cheese ; mix all together, spread the prepa- 
ration over 6 slices of fried bread, and serve. 

Shrimps with Eggs are prepared the same as in forego- 
ing recipe, omitting the cheese. 

Shrimps and Oysters.— Open a can of shrimps, rinse 
them off with cold water ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add the shrimps, season with % teaspoonful salt, Vi tea- 
spoonful pepper, cover, and cook from 6 to 8 minutes ; sprinkle 
over 1 teaspoonful flour, stir 2 minutes, add 1 cupful milk, cook 



SHELL PISH. 13 

a few minutes ; remove the blazer, place the lower pan with ^/^ 
pint of solid oysters without any liquor over the lamp, add 1 tea- 
spoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, Vl teaspoonful salt, 
and a little white pepper. As soon as they begin to boil, add the 
shrimps, and serve ; or mix the yolks of 2 eggs with y^ gill of 
cream, add it to the oysters and shrimps, stir till nearly boiling, 
then serve. 

Shrimps with Mushrooms.— Open a can of shrimps, 
rinse off with cold water; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion, cook 3 minutes 
without browning ; add 1 cupful sliced mushrooms, cook 3 min- 
utes ; add the shrimps, season with 1 even teaspoonful salt, 74 tea- 
spoonful pepper, and 3 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, or 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; dust over 1 
teaspoonful flour, add ^/^ cupful water and a little beef extract, 
cook 5 minutes ; if handy, add Va gill of cream and serve. 

Scallops, Fried. — "Wipe the scallops with a napkin, roll 
them first in flour, then in beaten egg, and last in cracker crumbs ; 
heat Vi pound of lard in the blazer, when boiling hot put in some 
of the scallops, not too many at a time ; fry light brown, remove 
them with a skimmer and lay them on blotting paper, and fry 
the remaining the same way ; sprinkle over a little salt, and 
serve. 

liobster d, la St. Hilaire.— Split a 2-pound live lobster 
in half, remove the stony pouch from the head and the intestines 
from the tail ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in 
one half of the lobster, season with y4 teaspoonful salt and a little 
pepper, cover and cook till the shell of the lobster turns red, 
basting it with its own gravy ; then put the lobster into a dish, 
cook the remaining half the same way; soak 1 cupful shelled 
walnuts for several hours in salted water, open a can of shrimps, 



14 SHELL PISH. 

rinse half of them oflE with cold water ; when the lobster is cooked, 
extract the meat from the shells and cut it into small pieces; 
place the blazer, with 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion and 1 
tablespoonful butter, over the lamp, cook 3 minutes without 
browning ; add the lobster and shrimps, then drain the walnuts, 
and add them also to the lobster ; season with 1 even tablespoon- 
ful salt, '/^ even teaspoonful white pepper, cover and cook 10 
minutes; then sprinkle over 1 tablespoonful flour, add 1% cup 
of milk, 1 bay leaf, 8 whole peppers ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; 
mix the yolks of 2 eggs with a half cup of cream, add it to the 
lobster, stir a few minutes, and serve over 6 slices of bread fried 
in butter. 

Liobster k la Citizen. — Extract the meat from a 2-pound 
freshly boiled lobster, cut the meat into 1-inch-sized pieces ; place 
the blazer, with 1 tablespoonful of butter, over the lamp, add % 
cupful sliced mushrooms, cover and cook 5 minutes, add the lob- 
ster meat, 1 even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful paprika, 1 gill 
of sherry wine, cook 6 minutes, mix the yolks of 3 eggs with y^ 
cup of rich cream, add it to the lobster, stir a few minutes, with- 
out boiling, extinguish the lamp and serve. 

Creamed LiObster. — Extract all the meat from a 2-pound 
boiled lobster and cut it into pieces ; place it in the blazer over 
the lamp, add % tablespoonful butter, 1 even teaspoonful salt, 
stirring a few minutes, then add 1 cupful cream and cook 6 min- 
utes ; next mix the yolks of 2 eggs with % cupful cream, add it 
to the lobster, stir a few minutes without letting it boil ; extin- 
guish the lamp and serve with crackers, croutons, or serve in 
patty cases of puff paste. 

Creamed Lobster, Plain. — Extract the meat from a 2- 
pound cooked lobster, cut it into l-inch-sized pieces ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir 



SHELL FISH. 15 

and cook 2 minutes, add 1 pint of milk, stir and cook till tlie con- 
tents have formed into a smooth sauce, add 1 pint of cooked lob- 
ster meat, 1 even teaspoon! ul salt, and cook 5 minutes, then serve 
with finger rolls, toast, croutons, or bread and butter. 

In place of fresh-boiled lobster canned lobster may be used. 

Lobster d. la Newburg. — ^Place 1 pint of fine-cut cooked 
lobster meat in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonf ul butter, season with 
1 even teaspoonful salt, a pinch of red pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls 
fine-cut truffles ; stir 3 minutes, then add 4 tablespoonfuls Ma- 
deira or sherry wine ; cook 6 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs 
with y2 cupful cream and add it to the lobster, stirring a few 
minutes without letting it boil ; then serve with finger rolls or 
crackers. 

Lobster Chops. — Melt Vz tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion, and cook till 
onion is done without browning, then add Va tablespoonful flour, 
stir a few minutes, add % cupful boiling water with a little beef 
extract ; season with 74 teaspoonful pepper, Va even teaspoonful 
salt, y4 teaspoonful English mustard, Va teaspoonful fine-chopped 
parsley, and a little Cayenne pepper ; cook and stir 5 minutes, 
add Vz pint fine-cut cooked or canned lobster meat, Yj cupful 
fine-cut canned mushrooms, stir and cook 5 minutes, add the yolk 
of 2 eggs, cook and stir 2 minutes ; then spread the mixture on 
a flat dish and set aside ; when cold take a tablespoonful of the 
mixture, dip it into beaten egg, then into grated bread crumbs, 
lay it on a board, and form it with 2 knives into small chops ; 
when all are prepared in this way, place the blazer vrith % table- 
spoonful lard and the same of butter over the lamp, as soon as 
melted put in as many chops as conveniently will go in the blazer, 
fry them light brown on both sides, lay the chops on a plate, stick 
a small lobster claw into each chop, and serve with Tartare sauce. 



16 SHELL PISH. 

Lobster h, I'Americaine. — Split a 2-pound live lobster 
in half, remove the gravel from the head and the intestines 
from the tail ; cut the lobster into 2-inch-sized pieces and crack 
the claws ; melt 1 large tablespoonf ul butter in the chafing dish, 
put in the lobster, cover and cook 5 minutes, turning the lob- 
ster once during that time ; then add 4 tablespoonf uls brandy, 
% cupful water, '/a teaspoonful beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
and a little Cayenne pepper ; cover and cook 25 minutes, then 
serve. 

liObster k la Viennoise. — Put a live lobster into boiling 
water, boil 10 minutes, remove, cut the lobster lengthwise into 
halves, remove the stony pouch and intestines ; cut each half into 
3 pieces and crack the claws ; put 1 tablespoonf ul butter and 1 
tablespoonful fine-chopped onion in the blazer, add 1 bay leaf 
and 1 sprig of thyme ; lay the lobster over this, the cut side up, 
cover and cook 5 minutes ; add Yg cupful white wine, 4 table- 
spoonfuls brandy, y^ cupful water, and % teaspoonful beef ex- 
tract ; season with 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper, 
cover and cook 15 minutes ; lay the lobster on a hot dish, cover 
and set aside ; reduce the gravy by boiling to one lialf, add 2 
tablespoonf uls canned tomatoes or 1 fine-cut raw tomato, 2 table- 
spoonfuls Madeira or sherry wine, and ^y4 tablespoonful butter ; 
cook 6 to 8 minutes ; pour the sauce over the lobster and serve. 

liobster h la Maryland. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter; 
extract the meat from a 2-pound cooked lobster, cut it into inch- 
sized pieces, put it into the butter ; season with 1 even teaspoon- 
ful salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, cover and cook 3 minutes, 
add Va gill sherry wine, cook 5 minutes, add % cupful cream, 
continue to cook for a few minutes ; in the meantime rub the yolk 
of 2 hard-boiled eggs fine, mix with y^ tablespoonful butter, press 
them through a sieve, add them to the lobster, and serve. 



SHELL PISH. 17 

Lobster k la Banhofer. — Extract the meat from i email 
boiled lobsters and cut it into pieces ; melt 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped shallot, cook 3 
minutes, add the lobster meat and 12 canned shrimps; soak 1 
cupful shelled walnuts for several hours in salted water, drain, 
and add the nuts to the lobster, season with 1 teaspoonful salt, 
% teaspoonful white pepper, cook and stir 5 minutes, cover and 
set aside ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter- in the chafing-dish pan, 
add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, add ly^ cup- 
ful milk, % teaspoonful pepper, % teaspoonful salt, % bay leaf, 8 
whole peppers, and a little nutmeg, cook 5 minutes, add 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice ; mix the yolk of 2 eggs with 3 tablespoon- 
fuls cream, add them to the sauce, add 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped 
parsley, remove bay leaves and peppers, pour the sauce over the 
lobster, fill the preparation in the i lobster tails, and serve. 

Lobster k la Bousillon. — Procure a 2-pound live lobster ; 
split it lengthwise in halves, taking out the gravel from the head 
and intestines from the tail. Break off the claws and crack them, 
then cut each half into 3 pieces ; place the blazer with 1 heaping 
tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion over 
the lamp, add a piece of bruised garlic the size of a white bean, 
cook 2 minutes, then put in the lobster, the cut side up ; cover 
and cook 5 minutes, pour over % gill of brandy, set on fire and 
let it bum 1 minute ; add white wine and sherry wine, of each 
% cupful, % cupful canned tomatoes ; season with 1 teaspoonful 
salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, \ teaspoonful beef extract ; 
cover and cook 15 minutes ; mix 1 teaspoonful butter with Yg 
teaspoonful flour, stir it into the lobster, and cook a few min- 
utes ; add last 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; dress the lobster on 
a hot plate, pour over the sauce and sprinkle over when handy 1 
teaspoonful fine-cut chives. 



18 SHELL FISH. 

Lobster k la Bordeaux. — Melt % tablespoonf ul butter in 
the blazer, add ^2 tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, 
add 1 cupful water, y^ teaspoonful beef extract, Vg cupful canned 
tomatoes or 1 large fine-cut raw tomato, season with % teaspoon- 
ful salt and a little Cayenne pepper, cook 5 minutes, counting 
from the time it begins to boil ; then set aside until the lobster is 
cooked. Next place the chafing-dish pan with 2 tablespoonfuls 
oil or 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 medium-sized fine-chopped 
onion over the lamp ; cook 3 minutes without browning, then cut 
2 raw lobsters' tails into pieces, put them into the pan, season with 
1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful paprika, or a little Cayenne pep- 
per ; cook 5 minutes ; make a bouquet by tying together 2 sprigs 
of parsley, 1 clove, 1 sprig of thyme, and a small clove of garlic ; 
add it to the lobster ; add % pint red or white wine, cover and 
cook 15 minutes ; remove the bouquet, lay the lobster on a hot 
dish, add to the gravy the above sauce ; cook a few minutes and 
pour it over the lobster ; sprinkle 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped pars- 
ley over the whole and serve. 

Lobster k la Britannia. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in 
the blazer, add Va tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes ; 
add Va pint oi. water, with a little beef extract, Va can small mush- 
rooms, 1 even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper, a 
sprig of thyme and 1 bay leaf, 4 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, 
and 6 artichoke bottoms cut into quarters ; cook 12 to 15 min- 
utes ; mix the yolk of 2 eggs with \ cupful cream, add it to the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice and 1 teaspoonful fine- 
chopped parsley ; remove at once and set aside. Open a can of 
lobster, drain oflE all the moisture ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in 
the chafing-dish pan, put in the lobster meat, cover and cook 6 
minutes, stirring it twice during that time ; put the lobster on to a 
dish, pour over the above preparation, and serve. In place of 
canned lobster, fresh boiled lobster may be used. 



SHELL PISH. 



19 



Lobster Curry. — Extract the meat from a 2-pound boiled 
lobster, cut the meat into inch-sized pieces ; melt 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, add the lobster, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt, and y, even teaspoonful pepper ; cook 5 minutes ; 
mix 1 heaping teaspoonful curry powder with % gill of white 
wine, add it to the lobster, stir and cook 5 minutes, cover and set 
aside ; melt % tablespoonful butter, add ^^ tablespoonful flour, 
stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1 cupful chicken or veal broth, a 
small bouquet, cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolk of 2 eggs with 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; add it to the sauce ; add last 2 table- 
spoonfuls cream, season with salt, pour the sauce over the lobster 
and serve. 

liObster h la Tirole. — Place Vi cupful washed rice in the 
chafing-dish pan, add % teaspoonful salt and 1 quart of water ; 
set the pan over the lamp, cover and cook till the rice is soft, but 
not broken ; then drain the rice in a sieve, rinse off with cold 
water, return it to the pan, put 1 teaspoonful butter in the center, 
cover and place the pan again for a few minutes over the lamp, 
just long enough to heat the rice ; remove and set it in a warm 
place or in hot water. Split a 2-pound live lobster in half, remove 
the stony pouch and intestines ; cut each half into 3 pieces ; melt 
1% tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the lobster, cover 
and cook about 8 minutes, turning the lobster once during that 
time, then take out the lobster and lay it on a plate ; add 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion or shallot to the butter in the blazer, 
% fine-chopped green pepper, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stir 
and cook 3 minutes ; add 1 fine-cut raw tomato, % cupful fine-cut 
mushrooms, and a small bouquet.; 1 cupful boiling water and % 
teaspoonful beef extract ; add the lobster, season vnth 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, cover and cook about 18 minutes ; dress the lob- 
ster on a dish, pour over the sauce and lay the rice in a circle 
around it and serve, or it may be served fi-om the chafing dish. 



20 SHELL PISH. 

Lobster h la Malta.— Melt 1 large tablespoonf ul butter in 
the blazer ; open and drain one can of lobster, put the lobster 
meat into the blazer, stir and cook 3 minutes ; add % gill of 
brandy, V2 giU of sherry wine, and % cupful canned tomatoes, 
1 teaspoonf ul salt, and Vi teaspoonful paprika ; cover and cook 6 
minutes, then serve. 

Lobster Curry, of Canned Lobster. — Melt 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 
onion and 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stir and cook 6 minutes ; 
add 1 teaspoonful flour, stir 1 minute, add 1 cup of boiling 
water and a little beef extract, 1 even teaspoonful salt, cook to a 
smooth sauce ; then remove and place the chafing-dish pan with 

1 tablespoonful butter over the lamp, put in 1 pint of canned 
lobster meat, stir and cook a few minutes, add 4 tablespoonfuls 
sherry wine and % teaspoonful salt, cover and cook 5 minutes, 
pour over the curry sauce and serve with boiled rice. In place 
of wine, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice may be taken. 

Canned Lobster k la Cream. — Open and drain a can of 
lobster ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the lob- 
ster meat, season with 1 even teaspoonful salt, % even teaspoon- 
ful white pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice ; cover and cook 
5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 3 eggs with % pint of cream, add it 
to the lobster, stir carefully for a few minutes without boiling, 
then serve. In place of canned lobster, fresh lobster may be 
taken. 

Lobster k I'AUemande. — Split a 2-pound live lobster in 
two lengthwise and crack the claws, cut each half in two pieces ; 
season with 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper ; melt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter in the blazer, pour half the butter into 
the cup ; put in the lobster, the cut side up, pour over the melted 
butter in the cup, cover and cook about 25 minutes. In the 



PISH. 21 

meantime, stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream, add gradually 
1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful Frencli mustard, 
and 1 teaspoonf ul fine-chopped parsley ; dress the lobster on a hot 
plate, spread over the mustard butter and serve. 

Soft-shell Crabs in Batter. — Separate the yolks and 
whites from 2 eggs, beat the whites to a stifE froth, mix the yolks 
with 2 tablespoonfuls flour, % cup of milk teaspoonful melted 
butter, and a little salt ; add this to the beaten whites, wash and 
wipe dry prepared crabs, dip them into the batter and fry 
light brown in hot fat ; if the batter should be too thin, add 
more flour, and if too thick add more milk. 

Soft-shell Crabs, Fried. — Eemove the spongy substance 
and the sand bags from the sides from 6 soft-shell crabs, wash and 
wipe dry ; melt 2 tablespoonfuls lard or fat in the blazer, put in the 
crabs, two at a time, fry light brown on each side, lay them on a 
plate, sprinkle over a little salt, and fry the remaining the same way. 

Another way is to dust the prepared crabs with flour, then 
dip them into beaten egg and cover with bread crumbs, and fry 
the same way. 

Soft-shell Crabs h la Maltre d'H6tel. — Prepare and 

fry the crabs the same as directed in first recipe ; place them on 
a dish, and spread over each one % teaspoonful maitre-d'hotel 
butter. A handful of parsley fried a few minutes in fat is a nice 
accompaniment with fried crabs. Serve with bread and butter. 



FISH. 



Fried Eels. — Cut 2 pounds of eels into 2-inch lengths, sea- 
son with 1 heaping tablespoonful salt, set aside for 1 hour ; short- 
ly before serving wipe the pieces dry with a napkin and roll them 



22 B'ISH. 

in flour ; cut Va pound larding pork into fine dice-shaped pieces; 
place it in the hlazer over the lamp, fry until it begins to turn 
straw-color, then pour half the pork into a small bowl, leaving 
the other half in the blazer ; put in as many pieces of eel as con- 
veniently will go into the blazer, fry light brown on all sides till 
well done, adding more of the pork as the frying continues. 
When they are all fried arrange them on a warm dish, and serve 
with Lyonnaise potatoes or hashed potatoes, or roll the eels first 
in flour, then in beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs; in 
place of pork they may be fried in lard or fat. 

Eels can be served with maitre-d'hotel butter or tartare sauce. 

Stewed Eels. — Out 2 pounds of fresh eels into pieces 2 
inches long ; put them into the chafing-dish pan, cover with boil- 
ing water, add 1 tablespoonful salt, Yg teaspoonful pepper, 1 
onion, 1 bay leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley tied together with a sprig of 
thyme, add y2 gill of white vinegar, put the pan over the lamp 
and boil 5 minutes, counting from the time it begins to boil ; re- 
move the pan ; keep it covered and set aside ; melt 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour, cook 2 minutes, 
add 1 cupful white broth or water with Yg teaspoonful beef ex- 
tract, if handy % gill of mushroom liquor and '^ cupful of the 
eel broth, cook 5 minutes ; add, if necessary, a little salt, add 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with y cup- 
ful cream or *^ cupful milk, add it to the sauce, stir a few min- 
utes without letting it boil, drain the eels and place them in a 
dish, pour over the sauce, and serve with boiled potatoes or potato 
croquettes or fried bread. 

Fried Fish. — Clean, wash, and wipe the fish dry, season 
with salt, allowing 1 tablespoonful salt for 2 pounds of fish ; let 
the fish stand a half hour. If the fish is large cut it into pieces, 
dip the pieces into flour, and fry the same as eels or halibut ; or 



FISH. 23 

dip the fish into beaten egg and roll it in cracker or bread 
crumbs, then fry. All kinds of fish are fried the same way. 

Halibut k la Maitre d'H6tel.— Procure a thin slice of 
halibut, weighing about 1 pound ; remove the skin and bone in 
center, cut the slice into 3 pieces, season with % tablespoonf ul 
seasoning salt ; lay the fish in a covered dish with 1 small sliced 
onion, 1 sprig of thyme, and 2 sprigs of parsley ; cover and let it 
stand 30 minutes, then wipe the pieces dry, dust with flour, dip 
each piece into beaten egg, then in rolled cracker crumbs ; melt 
Vs tablespoonful lard and the same of butter in the blazer over 
the lamp, put in the fish pieces, and fry to a delicate brown ; 
arrange them on a warm dish and spread 1 tablespoonful maitre- 
d'hotel butter over and serve with boiled potatoes or hashed 
potatoes. In place of halibut fresh codfish or any other kind of 
fish may be prepared and cooked the same way, and tartare sauce 
may be served with the fish in place of maitre-d'hotel butter. 

Sardines en CroMons. — Open a box of sardines, care- 
fully turn them out of the box without breaking, lay them on a 
plate, and scrape off the loose skin ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter 
in the blazer, put in the sardines, not too many at once ; fry 2 
minutes, turning them once during that time ; then dress them 
artistically over nicely fried croutons (see Croiitons) ; sprinkle 
over each sardine a little lemon juice and white pepper. 

Shad Roe with Green Peas. — Place a shad roe in the 
water pan, cover with cold water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 table- 
spoonful vinegar, 1 small sliced onion, 3 whole peppers, and 1 sprig 
of parsley tied together with y^ bay leaf, 1 clove, and a small sprig 
of thyme ; place the pan over the lamp, cover, and boil 3 min- 
utes ; then remove the pan, let it stand 3 minutes, take out the 
roe, wipe it dry, dip it into beaten egg, and roll in grated bread 
crumbs ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the roe, 



24 PISH. 

and cook light brown on both sides ; lay the roe on a warm dish 
and garnish with cooked green peas and potato balls. 

Shad Roe h la Maitre d'Hotel. — Prepare and cook a 
shad roe the same as in foregoing recipe; stir 1 tablespoonful 
butter to a cream, add slowly, while stirring constantly, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, % teaspoonful grated nutmeg, and 1 tea- 
spoonful fine-chopped parsley ; spread this over the roe and serve. 

Shad Roe with Black Butter. — Place the roe in the 

chafing-dish pan, cover with cold water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
tablespoonful vinegar, 1 small onion cut into slices, 3 whole pep- 
pers, a sprig of parsley, and Vz bay leaf ; set the pan over the lamp 
and boil 6 minutes ; remove and let stand 10 minutes ; then re- 
move, dry the roe on a napkin, dip the roe into beaten egg, and 
cover with bread crumbs ; place the blazer with 1 tablespoonful 
butter over the lamp ; when melted, add the roe, fry light brown 
on both sides, lay the roe on a hot plate, set it over the hot-water 
pan, and prepare the black-butter sauce. Place the blazer with 
Vs cupful of vinegar, % bay leaf, a sprinkle of salt and pepper 
over the lamp ; reduce by boiling to one half, then strain into a 
bowl ; return the blazer with 1 heaping tablespoonful butter over 
the lamp, let it get dark brown, then pour it into the vinegar, 
pour the sauce over the roe and serve. Calf's brain may be pre- 
pared the same way. 

Flounders h la Dresden.— Kemove the fillets from 2 
flounders, each weighing 1 pound, season them with Vz table- 
spoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper, roll them up cork shape, 
and tie with a string or fasten with a toothpick ; melt 1 table- 
spoonful of butter in a chafing dish, put in the fillets, add 1 
slice of carrot, 2 slices of onion, cover, and cook till done; re- 
move the fillets, add y^ tablespoonful fiour to the sauce, stir, and 
cook 3 minutes ; add % cupful water, y^ teaspoonful beef extract, 



FISH. 25 

V^ even teaspoonf ul pepper, % bay leaf, cook 5 minutes ; mix the 
yolk of 2 eggs with y^ gill of cream or milk, add it to the sauce ; 
add % tablespoonful lemon juice, stir 2 minutes, strain through a 
sieve over the fillets, and serve. 

Fillet of Sole k la Traviette. — Kemove the fillets of 
2 fiounders, each weighing about 1% pound, season them with 
1 tablespoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper ; cut the fillets in 
half, lay them in a covered dish, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice, add 2 onions cut into slices, '^ bunch parsley, and 3 
sprigs of thyme, cover, and let them stand 1 hour. Twenty min- 
utes before serving, lay the fillets on a napkin and wipe them 
dry, dust them with flour, then dip each fillet separately into 
beaten egg and cover them with grated bread crumbs or cracker 
crumbs ; fry them to a fine golden color in hot lard or fat ; re- 
move, lay them on blotting paper for a few minutes, and serve 
with traviette sauce. The fillets may be laid in a thickly 
buttered pan, covered with buttered paper, and baked in the 
oven. The fillets may be served with Tartare sauce. 

Finnan Haddie. — Procure a can of finnan haddie ; melt 
1 tablespoonful of butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour, 
stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1 pint of milk, stir and cook till 
smooth, add the finnan haddie, season with salt and a little white 
pepper, cook until the fish is heated through, and serve. 

Another way is to mix the yolks of 2 eggs with % cupful 
cream and add them to the above prepared haddie. 

Dried Haddock. — Cut 2 pounds of dried haddock into 4 
pieces, place the blazer % full with water over the lamp, when it 
boils put in the fish, cover and boil 3 minutes, extinguish the 
lamp, let the fish remain in the water 10 minutes, then take it 
out, season with salt and pepper and spread over some butter, 
and serve. 



26 MEAT. 

Codfish h la Cream. — Melt % tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add % tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 3 minutes, add 1 
cup milk, stir until smooth; cover a half pound Beardsley's 
shredded codfish with cold water, let it lay 1 minute, then inclose 
it in a towel, press dry ; add the codfish to the sauce, season with 
% teaspoonf ul salt and a little white pepper, stir until the fish is 
heated through without boiling ; extinguish the lamp, and serve 
with boiled potatoes. 

Codfish Cakes. — Peel 4 large potatoes and cut them into 
pieces, wash and place them in the blazer over the lamp, cover 
with water and cook till done ; drain off the water and mash the 
potatoes fine with a fork, add % cupful Beardsley's shredded cod- 
fish as it comes from the box, Ya tablespoonful butter, and 1 egg ; 
mix all together and form into balls, roll them in flour and fry 
brown in fat. 



MEAT. 



Beefsteak with Mushroom Sauce.— Melt y, table- 
spoonful butter, add % tablespoonful flour, stir 2 minutes ; add % 
pint of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful liquid beef extract, cook a 
few minutes; add 12 canned mushrooms and % cupful mush- 
room liquor, % even teaspoonful salt, and Vs teaspoonful pepper ; 
cook 15 minutes ; add last % tablespoonful lemon juice, remove 
and set aside till the steak is cooked ; procure a nice tender beef- 
steak, remove all skin and fat, cut the steak into 3 pieces, brush 
them over on both sides with a little melted butter ; place the 
blazer over the lamp, when very hot put in the meat, not too 
much at a time, fry 5 minutes on each side, lay the steak on to a 
hot plate ; mix Ya tablespoonful butter with % teaspoonful salt 



MEAT. 27 

and % teaspoonful pepper, spread this over both sides of the 
steak, pour over the mushroom sauce, and serve. 

Beefsteak, Fried. — Procure a small porterhouse steak, 
trim off all the fat and skin ; place the pan half full of water 
over the lamp, put on first a plate, then the cover ; when it boils, 
remove the pan and place the blazer over the lamp ; when very 
hot put in 1 teaspoonful butter, as soon as melted put in the meat 
and fry from 4 to 5 minutes, then turn and fry the same on the 
other side ; lay the meat on the hot plate, mix 1 teaspoonful but- 
ter with y2 teaspoonful salt and Va teaspoonful pepper, spread it 
over the meat on both sides, and serve. 

Sirloin and round steaks are cooked the same. 

Bavarian Beefsteak. — Placing the chafing-dish pan with 
1 tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion 
over the lamp, cover and cook 6 minutes without browning, then 
add 3 large peeled tomatoes, season with Vi even teaspoonful salt, 
a saltspoon full of pepper, and Vg teaspoonful sugar ; cover and 
cook 8 minutes, remove the cover, stir and cook a few minutes, 
then remove the pan, cover and set aside. 

Mix 1 pound of lean, tender, fine-chopped beef with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt and Vi teaspoonful pepper, divide and form the 
meat into 4 flat cakes ; brush each side over with melted butter, 
place the blazer over the lamp, when hot put in 2 of the steaks, 
fry 4 minutes on each side, place the steaks on a hot dish and fry 
the remaining two the same way ; pour over the tomatoes and 
serve. 

Beefsteak with Onions. — Peel and cut into slices 2 or 3 
onions of medium size ; heat 1 tablespoonful butter or beef fat in 
the blazer, put in the onion, season with 74 teaspoonful salt and a 
little pepper, cover, and cook 3 minutes ; remove the cover, stir 
the onions up, and again cover and cook a few minutes; then 



28 MEAT. 

take o£E the cover, and stir till done. Fry the beefsteak and 
season the same as in foregoing recipe, lay it on a plate, and pour 
the onions over it ; serve with boiled potatoes or fried potatoes. 
Porterhouse, sirloin, and round steak can be fried and served the 
same way. 

Minced Beefsteak. — Procure 1 pound of beef from the 
lower sirloin or upper round, minced fine ; remove all fat and 
stringy parts, form the meat into 4 flat cakes. Place the blazer 
with Ya tablespoonf ul butter over the lamp ; when hot put in the 
meat, cook 4 minutes on each side, lay them on a hot dish. Mix 
1 tablespoonful butter with % teaspoonf ul salt and Vi teaspoonful 
pepper, spread this over the steak on both sides, and serve with 
fried potatoes or bread and butter. 

Hamburger Steak. — Mix 1 pound of finely ground beef 
with 2 ounces minced suet, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion, 1 
egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper ; form this into 4 
flat cakes, roll them in grated bread crumbs. Heat % tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, put in 2 of the steaks, fry from 3 to 4 min- 
utes on each side, lay them on a hot plate, fry the remaining 2 the 
same way, add % teaspoonful flour to the gravy, a little beef extract, 
'/a cup water, and a pinch of salt ; cook until smooth, strain the 
sauce over the steaks, and serve with Lyonnaise or fried potatoes. 

Luncheon Gulash k la Bedford. — Put 1 tablespoon- 
ful drippings and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion in the blazer 
over the lamp, cook till the onion is straw-color, then add Va ta- 
blespoonful butter, 1 pound fine-cut beef of the upper round cut 
into small dice-shaped pieces, season with % teaspoonful salt, 1 
level teaspoonful paprika, cook a few minutes ; add 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour, mix well with the meat, add 1 cup of boiling water, and 
a little beef extract ; cook a few minutes, add 1 flne-cut large 
potato, cover, and cook 10 minutes, then serve. 



MEAT. 29 

RagoAt of Cooked Beef.— Cut lYa pound of cold roasted 
beef into small dice-shaped pieces ; fry 1 tablespoonf ul fine-cat lard- 
ing pork in the blazer till it turns straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped onion, cook a few minutes ; 
add the meat, season with 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful papri- 
ka or ^^ teaspoonful pepper, stir, and cook 5 minutes ; dust over 
Va tablespoonful flour, stir 1 minute, add % pint of boiling water 
and a little beef extract, cover, and cook 20 minutes, then serve. 

Ragout of cold roasted veal, lamb, or mutton is prepared the 
same way. 

Tripe k la Bechamel. — "Wash and cut 1 pound of tripe 
into 3-inch pieces, place them in the lower pan of the chafing 
dish, cover with water, add 1 bay leaf, 12 whole peppers, 1 sliced 
onion, Vz giU of vinegar, and 1 teaspoonful salt ; cook 15 min- 
utes ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour ; cook 2 minutes ; add iVa cupful milk or cream, 1 even 
teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful nutmeg, if handy % giU of mush- 
room liquor, 72 bay leaf, 8 whole peppers ; boil 5 minutes ; mix 
the yolks of 2 eggs with ^^ gill of cream, add it to the sauce, 
add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Transfer the tripe to a dish, 
and strain the sauce over it. 

Fried Tripe. — Wash and cut 1 pound of tripe into 3-inch- 
eized pieces, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt and % teaspoon- 
ful pepper ; lay the tripe in a dish, and cover with 1 cupful 
vinegar and Vg cup of cold water ; let stand over night. Next 
morning dry the tripe on a napkin, put some flour into a bowl, 
1 beaten egg on a plate, and some bread crumbs on another 
plate; take the tripe up with a fork, dip first in the flour, 
then in the beaten egg, and last in the bread crumbs ; melt 1 
tablespoonful fat. or butter in the blazer, put in as many of the 
tripe pieces as conveniently will go in, and fry light brown 



30 MEAT. 

on both sides ; when all are fried lay on a warm dish and 
serve. 

Or place the tripe for 2 hours with a sliced onion, the juice 
of 1 lemon, and 1 clove of garlic in a covered dish ; season with 
salt and pepper, and finish the same as above. Serve with 
maitre d'hotel butter. 

Corned Beef Hash. — If cooked corned beef is not at 
hand, take canned corned beef ; mix 1 pound of fine-chopped 
corned beef with 1 pint of fine-chopped boiled potatoes ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion; 
cook 3 minutes without browning ; add 1 tablespoonful flour ; stir 
and cook a few minutes ; add Yg pint of boiling water and Vj tea- 
spoonful beef extract ; stir and cook 3 minutes ; add meat and 
potatoes ; season with Vi teaspoonful pepper and salt to taste ; 
stir and cook 6 minutes, then serve. The hash may be spread 
on buttered toast, and a poached egg laid on top of each piece. 

Lamb Curry. — Out some cold cooked lamb in inch-sized 
pieces, then measure ; there should be 1 pint ; fry V-/^ tablespoon- 
ful chopped onion in 1 tablespoonful butter 3 miimtes ; add 1 
heaping teaspoonful curry powder ; cook 2 minutes ; add 1 
tablespoonful flour ; stir and cook a few minutes ; add 1 pint 
of boiling water, a little beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt, '^ tear 
spoonful white pepper ; cook to a creamy sauce, then add the 
lamb ; cover and cook 10 minutes ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, add it to the lamb, turn down the lamp, 
and serve with boiled rice. In place of lamb, cold roasted turkey, 
chicken, or veal may be used. 

Minced Lamb.— Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, 
add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion ; cook 3 minutes with- 
out browning ; add Yj tablespoonful fiour ; stir 2 minutes ; add 
y, pint boiling water with a little beef extract ; season with % 



MEAT. 3j 

teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, Vj teaspoonful nutmeg, */^ 
bay leaf, 4 whole peppers ; cook 5 minutes, removing bay leaf 
and peppers; put in 1 pint of fine-cbopped roasted or boiled 
lamb ; cook 10 minutes ; serve on a warm dish with a little fine- 
chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. — Procure 1 pound of nicely 
trimmed Iamb chops, heat the blazer over the lamp, put in the 
chops ; fry them about 4 minutes on each side ; lay them on a hot 
plate ; mix 1 tablespoonful butter with % teaspoonful salt, ^/^ tea- 
spoonful pepper ; spread this seasoning butter over both sides 
of the steak, and serve with fried tomatoes, and, if handy, baked 
potatoes or hashed potatoes. 

Pork Chops with Filed Apples.— Procure 1 pound of 
pork chops, those with a small rib in are the best ; heat the 
blazer ; put in 1 teaspoonful butter ; put in the chops, not too 
many at once ; fry 5 minutes, turning the chops once during 
that time ; then cover and cook 5 minutes longer, turning them 
again once during that time ; when done, lay the chops on a 
warm dish ; mix 1 tablespoonful butter with y^ teaspoonful salt 
and y4 teaspoonful pepper ; spread this over both sides of the 
chops ; cut 2 large sour apples into thick slices, add a little more 
butter to the fat in the blazer ; put in the apple slices ; cook 
until done without being broken ; dress the apple slices over the 
chops and serve. 

Mutton Sidney ^ la Mayence.— :Split 6 mutton kid- 
neys in half, remove the white center, cut the kidneys into slices, 
season with 1 teaspoonful salt, ^/^ teaspoonful pepper; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, a piece of bruised garlic the size of a cofiee bean, 
stir and cook 5 minutes, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful flour, stir 1 
minute, add 1 gill of red wine, 1 gill of water, a little beef ex- 



32 MEAT. 

tract, and a pinch of paprika ; cook 2 minutes, and serve over 4 
slices of fried or toasted bread. 

Lamb Kidneys with Fine Herbs. — Split 6 lamb 
kidneys, remove the white center part, cut the kidneys into 
slices, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt and /^ teaspoonful 
pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonf ul butter in the blazer, add 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped mush- 
rooms ; cook 5 minutes, then add the kidneys ; cook 2 minutes ; 
add Va cupful sherry wine, 1 tablespoonf nl lemon juice ; cook 6 
minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls cream, 
add it to the kidneys, stir for a few minutes, taking care not to let 
it boil again ; serve in patty cases. 

Beef Kidney Saut6. — Split 1 beef kidney in half, re- 
move the white center part, cut the kidney into slices, season 
with 1 teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful pepper ; place the blazer 
with 1 tablespoonful butter over the lamp, add 1 tablespoonful 
fine-chopped onion ; cook 5 minutes without browning, add the 
kidneys, cover and cook 5 minutes, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful 
flour, add Va cupful boiling water, stir and cook 3 minutes, add 
last 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, and serve with toast or croutons. 
Beef kidney may be prepared the same as mutton kidney, allow- 
ing the same ingredients for 1 beef kidney as for 6 mutton kid- 
neys. 

Lamb Kidney Saut6. — Place the pan with water over 
the lamp, cover first with a plate and then with the chafing-dish 
cover ; split 3 lamb or mutton kidneys in half, remove the white 
fatty part from the center, and cut the kidneys into slices ; season 
with y4 teaspoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper ; as soon as 
the water boils, remove the pan and place the blazer with Yj 
tablespoonful butter over the lamp, add 2 small slices of bread, 
fry them light brown on both sides ; remove and lay them on the 



MEAT. 33 

hot plate, then put Vs iablespoonf ul butter in the blazer, add Va 
tablespoonf nl fine-chopped onion (or Va teaspoonf ul grated onion) ; 
cook and stir 3 minutes, then add the kidneys, cook 5 minutes, 
sprinkle over Vg teaspeonful ilour, stir 1 minute, add Va giU sherry 
wine, Va gill boiling water, with % teaspoonful liquid beef ex- 
tract, cook 5 minutes longer, add last 1 teaspoonful lemon juice ; 
pour the kidneys over the fried bread, and serve. 

Mutton Kidney Sant6, Plain. — Split 6 mutton or 
lamb kidneys in half, remove the white center part, cut the kid- 
neys into slices, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoon- 
ful pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add the 
kidneys, cover and cook 3 minutes, sprinkle over y^ teaspoonful 
flour, stir a few minutes, add ^^ cupful water and, if handy, a 
little beef extract ; add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, toss for a few 
minutes, and serve with croutons or toast. 

Veal Steak. — Have the butcher chop or grind exceedingly 
fine % pound veal and 2 ounces beef fat, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful pepper, 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, and 1 egg ; mix the ingredients well together, 
divide it into 3 parts, form them into oblong shapes, flatten a lit- 
tle, and cover with fresh-grated bread crumbs ; heat 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, put in the steaks, fry light brown on 
each side, about 8 minutes in all ; lay the steaks on a warm dish, 
add */^ teaspoonful flour to the gravy, a little salt, and beef ex- 
tract, cook 2 minutes, add % cup water, cover and cook 3 min- 
utes, add a pinch of pepper, and strain over the meat. 

Wiener Schnitzel. — Procure 1 pound veal from the leg, 
cut into thin slices a half inch thick and 3 inches square ; pare 
the corners round ; beat lightly to flatten them, then season with 
*/^ tablespoonful salt and pepper, dust with flour; dip each 
slice into beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs j then pat 



34 MEAT. 

smooth with a knife ; heat Vj tablespoonful butter and the same 
of lard in the blazer, put in 2 slices, fry 3 to 4 minutes on each 
side, remove and lay them on a hot plate, fry the remaining the 
same way, and serve with cut lemon. 

Wiener Schnitzel Garn(6e. — Prepare and fry the 
schnitzel the same as in foregoing recipe; arrange them on a 
warm dish, lay in the center of each schnitzel ^/^ teaspoonful 
capers ; soak 4 anchovies for several hours in cold water, remove 
skin and bones, divide them in halves, roll them up, place 2 rolls 
on each schnitzel, and ^/^ lemon cut in two ; garnish with water 
cress or parsley ; any kind of vegetables may be served with this. 

Veal Cakes. — Procure 1 pound fine-minced veal, season 
with 1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper, form the meat 
into 4 round balls, flatten them to a half inch in thickness ; heat 
1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the meat (not too 
much at a time) and fry from 4 to 5 minutes on each side ; if 
it fries too fast, lower the lamp a little ; serve with cut lemon. 

Sweetbreads — How to prepare and blanch.— Lay 

the sweetbreads for 2 hours in cold water, changing the water 
several times ; then place them in the blazer over the lamp, cover 
with cold water, and let them boil 10 minutes ; remove and lay the 
sweetbread in cold water ; when cold take them out of the water, 
remove the windpipes, fibers, and fatty parts, and place the sweet- 
breads between 2 plates to press lightly. They are then ready to 
be prepared as explained in following recipes. 

Sweetbreads Saut^. — Blanch and prepare 2 large sweet- 
breads as directed in foregoing recipe ; season with salt, dust 
lightly with flour, dip into bjeaten egg, and cover with grated 
bread crumbs ; melt 1 largp tablespoonful butter in the blazer, 
put in the sweetbreads ; coVer and cook slowly 30 minutes, turn- 



MEAT. 35 

ing them carefully once during that time ; when ready to serve, 
lay 2 pieces of buttered toast on to a plate, dress the sweetbreads 
over them, and garnish with water cress. 

Sweetbreads with Pea Sauce. — Prepare and cook the 
sweetbreads the same as in foregoing recipe ; when done place 
the sweetbreads on to a plate, set it over the hot-water pan, cover 
and set aside. Pour 1 can of French peas into a sieve, rinse off 
with cold water, put the peas into the blazer, add 1% teaspoonful 
sugar and % cupful water ; cook 6 minutes, then mix ^^ teaspoon- 
ful cornstarch or flour with ^/^ tablespoonful butter, add it to the 
peas, add % teaspoonful salt and a little white pepper ; cook 3 
minutes, add last ^4 gUl of cream and 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped 
parsley, pour the pea sauce around the sweetbreads, and serve 
with potato balls. 

Sweetbreads h la B^arnaise. — Prepare first a sauce 
B6arnaise. Then lard the upper part of 2 large blanched and 
prepared sweetbreads with fine strips of larding pork ; place the 
blazer with 1 tablespoonful fine-cut larding pork over the lamp, 
cook until it begins to turn a straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, season the sweetbreads with 1 even teaspoonful salt, put them 
in the blazer, cover, and turn often till they have obtained a light- 
brown color all over ; then add 1 gill of white broth or water, add 
1 small onion, 2 slices of carrot, and a small bouquet, cover and 
cook till the sweetbreads are done, basting them often ; if neces- 
sary, add a little more broth or water ; when done pour the Bear 
naise sauce on to a dish, and dress the sweetbreads over it. (See 
Sauce.) 

Sweetbreads ^ la Fonchonette. — Separate 2 large pair 
of blanched sweetbreads into small pieces, put them in the blazer, 
add 12 small button mushrooms cut into quarters, ^/^ tablespoon- 
ful butter, 1 even teaspoonful salt, a little white pepper, a small 



36 MEAT. 

pinch of Cayenne pepper and 1 gill of Rhine wine ; cover and 
cook 10 minutes ; mix the yolks of 4 eggs with iVa gill of cream, 
add it to the sweetbreads, stir caref uUy until nearly boiling, turn 
out the lamp, and serve with finger rolls or crescents of pufE 
paste ; it may also be served in patty cases. In place of wine 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice may be taken. 

Sweetbreads h I'AUemande. — Blanch, prepare, and 
cook a pair of large sweetbreads the same as sweetbreads a la 
maitre d'hotel, omitting the maitre d' hotel butter; place the 
cooked sweetbreads on a plate and keep them warm ; melt % 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add % tablespoonful flour, stir 
and cook 2 minutes ; add 1 cupful chicken or veal broth, '/j even 
teaspoonful salt, and a small bouquet ; cook 5 minutes ; mix the 
yolk of 1 egg with 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, add it to the sauce, 
add, if handy, 1 tablespoonful cream, pour the sauce around the 
sweetbreads, and serve with croutons or bread and butter. 

Sweetbreads a la Maitre d'H6tel. — Blanch and pre- 
pare a pair of large sweetbreads as directed ; season them with 1 
even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper ; melt 1 large 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add the sweetbreads, cover and 
cook slowly about 25 minutes ; place 2 pieces of fried bread or 
buttered toast on a warm dish, dress the sweetbreads over them, 
and spread 1 teaspoonful maitre d'hotel butter over each one and 
serve. In place of fried bread or toast, bread and butter may be 
served with it. 

Calf's Brain — How to blanch. — Soak a set of calf's 
brains for 2 hours in cold water, changing the water several 
times ; then remove the loose skin ; place the brains in the water 
pan, cover with cold water, add 1 tablespoonful white vinegar, % 
teaspoonful salt, 4 whole peppers, 2 slices of onion, % bay leaf, 
and a sprig of parsley ; place the pan over the lamp and boil 10 



MEAT. 37 

minutes, set the pan aside, letting the brains cool in the water ; 
then remove and trim them neatly. 

Calf's Brain with Green Peas.— Dry the blanched 
brains on a napkin, dust them with a little flour, then dip them 
into beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs ; put 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of butter in the blazer, when melted put in the brains, cook 
till light brown on one side, then turn and cook the same on the 
other side ; put them on a hot plate and garnish with green peas. 
(See Vegetables.) 

Calf's Brain with Black Butter is prepared the same 
as shad roe with black butter. 

Calf's Brain h I'Alleuiande. — Melt 1 large tablespoon- 
f ul butter in the blazer, put in 1 pair of blanched and prepared 
calf's brain, season with a little salt and pepper, add 1 gill of 
Rhine or white wine, cover, and cook 5 minutes on each side ; 
remove the brains carefully, lay them on 2 pieces of toast or 
croutons, cover, and keep warm till the following sauce is made : 
Melt Ya tablespoonful butter, add y^ tablespoonful flour, stir, and 
cook 2 minutes ; add % cup of white broth or water with a little 
beef extract, 2 tablespoonf uls mushroom liquor, 4 whole peppers, 
% bay leaf, cook 5 minutes ; remove peppers and bay leaf, add 2 
tablespoonfuls cream ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with % tablespoon- 
ful lemon juice, add it to the sauce, and pour over the brains. 
The brains may be cut into slices, then cooked and finished the 
same way. 

Calf's Brain k 1' Alfonso. — Blanch and prepare 2 sets 
of calf's brain as directed in former recipe ; place the blazer with 
2 ounces larding pork and the same of raw ham, both cut into 
thin slices, over the lamp, put the brains on top of this, add 1 
gill of white wine or the juice of % lemon ; cover with veal or 



38 MEAT. 

chicken broth, lay 2 ounces fine-cut larding pork over them, 
put on the cover and cook slowly 15 minutes ; then drain the 
brains on a sieve and cut them into slices ; melt 1 ounce butter in 
the blazer, add the brains, toss them for a few minutes ; arrange 
nicely over 6 slices of buttered toast, pour over 1 pint of hot 
tomato sauce a I'allemande, and serve. Sweetbreads may be pre- 
pared the same way. 

Calf's Liver Saut6. — Out V-/^ pound calf's liver into 
small pieces, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt, ^/4 teaspoonful 
pepper, mix seasoning and liver well together ; place the blazer 
with 1 tablespoonful butter, a small piece of bruised garlic, 2 
tablespoonfuls fine-chopped onion over the lamp, cover, and cook 
3 minutes ; add 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped mushrooms, cook 3 
minutes ; then add the liver, stir well for 2 minutes, cover, and 
cook 6 minutes ; sprinkle over % tablespoonful flour, add ^^ cup 
of red wine, % cup of boiling water, y^ teaspoonful beef extract, 
stir, and cook a few minutes ; extinguish the lamp, and serve 
with bread and butter. 

Liver SteAV, also called Hash. — Take 1 pound of lamb 
or calf's liver, cut it into small pieces, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt and V4 teaspoonful pepper ; place the blazer over 
the lamp with % tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, cook 5 minutes without browning the onions; 
then add the liver, cover, and cook 5 minutes ; dust over Ya table- 
spoonful flour, mix all well together, add % cupful water, con- 
tinue to cook 3 minutes, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, turn 
down the lamp, and serve with bread and butter or French fried 
potatoes. 

Calf's Liver, Fried. — Season 4 thin slices of calf's liver 
with 1 even teaspoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper, roll in 
flour ; melt Vg tablespoonful butter and the same of lard or fat in 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 39 

the blazer, put in the liver, fry 4 minutes on each side, turning 
several times while frying ; arrange on a warm plate, and serve 
with bread and butter or, if handy, buttered toast. 

Fried Liver and Bacon. — Place the chafing-dish pan 
with % pint water over the lamp, cover, and let it come to a boil, 
put in 4 slices of bacon, instantly remove the pan, let the bacon 
remain 3 minutes, then take out the bacon, place it in the blazer, 
arid fry over the lamp 3 minutes on each side ; lay the bacon on 
a warm dish ; have 4 slices of lamb's or calf's liver, seasoned with 
1 even teaspoonf ul salt and a little pepper ; roll the liver in flour, 
put the slices in the bacon fat, and fry light brown on both 
sides ; arrange the liver and bacon on a warm plate and serve. 

Calf's Iiiver, Broiled. — Procure 4 slices of calf's liver, 
brush them over on each side with melted butter, place the blazer 
over the lamp, when very hot put in the liver and broil 4 min. 
utes on each side ; lay the liver on a plate ; mix Va tablespoonf ul 
butter with % teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper ; spread 
this over each side of the liver, and serve with French fried 
potatoes and bread and butter. 

Calf 8 Iiiver a la Maltre d'Hdtel.— Broil the liver the 
same as in the foregoing recipe, spread 1 tablespoonful m4itre 
d'hotel butter over, and serve. 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

Chicken ■with Rice. — Place the lower chafing-dish pan 

over the lamp, half full of water, cut a well-cleaned spring 

chicken into 8 pieces, when the water boils put in the chicken, 

add 1 teaspoonful salt, Va teaspoonful pepper, Va carrot, a bouquet, 



40 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

and 1 onion, and cook 20 minutes ; then add Ya cupful well- 
washed raw rice, cook till done, remove onion, carrot, and bou- 
quet, and serve. 

Potted Spring Chicken. — Truss nicely a well-cleaned 
spring chicken weighing about V/i pound, season with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt; fry 2 ounces fine-cut larding pork straw-color 
in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful butter and the chicken, cover 
and cook till the chicken has obtained a nice brown color, 
turning it frequently ; then add y^ cupful hot water, cover and 
cook till tender, which will take from 25 to 30 minutes ; if the 
water boils away too much, add more; when done, lay the 
chicken on to a dish, remove the fat from the gravy, mix 1 
teaspoonful cornstarch with i4 cup cold water, add it to the 
gravy, stir, and cook a few minutes, add sufficient water to make 
a half pint of sauce, cook for a few minutes, strain, and serve 
with the chicken. 

Chicken Broth. — Dip a pair of chicken feet into boil- 
ing water, scrape off the skin, remove the nails, wash and place 
them with the giblets and neck of a chicken in the chafing-dish 
pan, add l^^ pint cold water, ^^ teaspoonful salt, and a small 
onion ; cook 40 minutes, remove and strain the broth into a bowl, 
and use when wanted ; it will keep in the ice box for several 
days. 

Cold Chicken a la Cream. — Cut the meat of cold 
roasted or boiled chicken into small pieces, melt 1 ounce butter 
in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fiour, stir, and cook 3 minutes, 
add Vz pint of chicken broth or boiling water with a little -beef 
extract, 1 even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, and ^^ 
cupful milk, cook 2 minutes, then add 3 cupf uls of the chicken 
meat and % cupful cream, cook 5 minutes, add last 1 tablespoon- 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 41 

f ul lemon juice ; serve over buttered toast ; if cream is not handy, 
add milk. 

Chicken Saut6 k la Financi^re.— Cut a well-cleaned 
spring chicken into 6 pieces, season with 1 teaspoonful salt and 
^2 teaspoonful pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonf ul butter, put in the 
chicken, cook 5 minutes, add 3 tablespoonfuls Madeira w:ine, 
cover, and cook 10 minutes; dust over % tablespoonf ul flour, 
stir 2 minutes, add Ya cupful fine-cut mushrooms, y^ cupful fine- 
chopped boiled beef tongue, % gill of mushroom liquor, % cupful 
chicken broth or water with a little beef extract ; cover and cook 
16 minutes ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with % tablespoonful lemon 
juice, add it to the chicken, turn down the lamp, and serve. 

Chicken Saut^ k I'ltalienne. — Out a well-cleaned spring 
chicken of V-/2 pound in weight into 6 pieces, season with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter 
in the blazer, put in the chicken, cook 10 minutes, turning the 
pieces frequently with a fork, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful flour, 
stir 1 minute, add 1 cupful chicken broth, % cupful canned 
tomatoes or 2 fine-cut raw tomatoes, cook 10 minutes; add 1 
cupful fine-cut boiled spaghetti, cover, and cook 5 minutes, then 
serve; if handy, sprinkle when ready to serve 2 tablespoonfuls 
grated cheese over the chicken ; if chicken broth is not handy, 
take water and a little beef extract. 

Chicken Fricassee with Dumplings.— Cut a well- 
cleaned young chicken of 3 or 4 pounds into 8 or 10 pieces ; 
have 2 chafing dishes ; put half a chicken into each dish, 
add 1 even teaspoonful salt and % even teaspoonful pepper, 1 
medium-sized onion, to each chafing dish ; cover the chicken 
with boiling water, place the pan over the lamp, and cook 
till tender ; then mix % tablespoonful flour with Vz tablespoonful 
butter and add it to the fricassee ; then put 1 cup of flour into a 



4:2 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

bowl, add 1 teaspoonful baking powder, V2 teaspoonful butter, 
and a pinch of salt ; rub butter and flour together, mix 1 egg 
with i tablespoonfuls of milk or water, add it to the flour ; mix 
all into a thick batter, then cut with a teaspoon small portions 
from the batter and drop them into the fricassee ; cover and cook 
6 minutes, no longer ; then turn out the lamp and place the 
fricassee over the hot-water pan. In serving, put the fricassee 
on to a dish and lay the dumplings in a circle around it ; sprinkle 
over the whole 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley. 

Chicken Saut6 h I'Hongroise. — Cut a well-cleaned 
young chicken of 2% pounds into 8 pieces ; put 1 tablespoonf ul 
butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion in the blazer over 
the lamp ; cook 5 minutes without browning ; season the 
chicken with 1 even tablespoonful salt and 1 even teaspoonful 
pepper ; mix seasoning and chicken well together, add the chicken 
to the onion in blazer ; cover and cook 26 minutes, turning it 
often with a fork ; then sprinkle over 1 tablespoonful flour, stir 
2 minutes, add 1 pint of boiling water ; cover and cook till done. 
Shortly before serving lay the chicken on a hot dish, remove all 
fat from the gravy, add % cupful cream ; cook 3 minutes ; add 
Yg tablespoonful lemon juice, and strain the gravy over the 
chicken ; sprinkle 1 fine-chopped hard-boiled egg over the whole, 
and lay 3-cornered pieces of buttered toast or fried bread around 
the edge of the dish and serve. 

Chicken Saut^. — Cut 1 well-cleaned spring chicken into 
4 pieces, season with 1 teaspoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper ; 
melt 1 tablespoonful butter in a chafing dish, add Va tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped onion, put in the chicken ; cover and cook 
till done ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with % giU oi cream, add it 
to the chicken ; add last % tablespoonful lemon juice and 
serve. 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 43 

Chicken Cnrry.— If a whole chicken is to be cooked' in 
the chaling dish, it is best to have two chafing dishes, or the half 
of the chicken may be cooked at one time. Cut a well-cleaned 
young chicken of SVa pounds into 10 pieces ; place half of the 
chicken into the water pan, cover with boiling water, add 1 
onion, 1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper ; cover and cook 
till the chicken is tender ; if the water boils away, add more ; 
then melt 1 tablespoonf ul butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir, 
and cook a few minutes ; add 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stir, 
and cook till smooth; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, add it to the sauce, then instantly remove, 
not letting it boil after the yolks have been added. Arrange the 
chicken on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and lay a border of 
rice around it. 

Silan Curry. — Put 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion 
with 1 tablespoonful butter in a chafing dish ; cook 5 minutes ; 
add 1 teaspoonful curry powder and 1 tablespoonful flour ; stir 
and cook 3 minutes ; add V-j^ cupful boiling water and % tea- 
spoonful beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt ; cook 6 mintites ; add 1 
pint of fine-cut cold cooked chicken, turkey, veal, or fish meat, 1 
cupful fresh-grated cocoanut, % cupful cream ; cook 10 minutes, 
then serve. 

Chicken levers with CroMons. — Cut 4 chicken livers 
into pieces, season with Vi teaspoonful salt and pepper; place the 
blazer over the lamp, with Va tablespoonful butter, add y^ tea- 
spoonful grated onion, put in the liver pieces, cook 3 minutes, 
dust over % teaspoonful flour, stir 1 minute, add 1 gill of water 
and a little beef extract ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with ^/^ table- 
spoonful lemon juice, add it to the livers, remove and set aside 
for a few minutes. Put the lower pan over the lamp, add % 
tablespoonful butter, when hot put in 4 small round pieces of 



44 CHICKEN, BIKDS, AND GAME. 

bread, fry light brown on both sides, then lay them on the hot 
plate, and divide the liver over them. 

Chicken Livers en Bouch6es. — Have ready 4 patty 
eases of pufE paste, place the chafing-dish pan half full of water 
over the lamp, when it begins to boil remove the pan and the 
cover; next cover the water pan with a plate, on which place 
the patty cases, cover them, and set aside. Heat 1 tablespoonf ul 
butter in the blazer, add 1 teaspoonful grated onion, cook 2 min. 
utes, cut 3 chicken livers into slices, season with % teaspoonful salt 
and pepper, put them into the blazer, cover, and cook 5 minutes ; 
dust over '^/^ teaspoonful flour, mix, then add 1 tablespoonful 
Madeira or sherry wine, y^ giU of boiling water, a little beef 
extract ; cook 3 minutes, mix the yolk of 1 egg with 4 tablespoon- 
f uls cream, add it to the livers, stir for a few minutes without boil- 
ing, then fill the preparation into the patty cases, and serve. If 
double the quantity is wanted, take 4 large livers or 6 small ones. 

Chicken Livers d. I'EspagnoIe. — Procure Vg pint of 
chicken livers, carefully remove the gall, and cut the liver into 
slices, wash in cold water, drain, and season them with 1 even 
teaspoonful salt and Va even teaspoonful pepper. Place the blazer 
with Ya tablespoonful butter over the lamp, add the livers ; stir 
and cook 5 minutes, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, cook 
3 minutes, put the livers into a bowl, and set aside ; return the 
blazer with % tablespoonful butter to the lamp, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped onion, the same of fine-cut raw ham, celery, and 
carrots ; stir and cook 5 minutes, add ^^ tablespoonful flour, stir 
2 minutes ; season with '^ teaspoonful salt, 4 whole peppers ; add 
Vi bay leaf, % pint water, y^ teaspoonful beef extract ; boil 5 
minutes, then strain the sauce, return it to the blazer, remove 
the stones from 12 olives, press the olives back into their natural 
form, add them to the sauce, cook 5 minutes, add the livers 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 45 

and Va tablespoonful lemon juice, cook 3 minutee, counting 
from the time they begin to cook ; in place of chicken livers, 1 
pound of calf's or lamb's liver may be used. Serve with croutons 
or in patty cases of puff paste. 

Chicken Livers k la Zulano. — Prepare the livers the 
same as in foregoing recipe, add to the livers while frying Vj cup- 
ful fine-sliced mushrooms, and to the sauce % giU oi mushroom 
liquor, then finish the same as above. 

Creamed Chicken. — Cut a well-cleaned young chicken 
into 8 pieces, take the breast, second joint, and legs, season with 
1 heaping teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper ; put 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add the chicken, sprinkle over 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, place it over the lamp, cover and cook 
10 minutes, stirring it once during that time ; then add 1 cupful 
boiling water and a small onion, cook slowly till done. If the 
broth should boil away, add a little more water. Shortly before 
serving, lay the chicken on a hot dish, remove all fat from the 
broth ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with % cup cream or milk and 
add it to the chicken broth, stir a few minutes, pour the sauce 
over the chicken, and serve with buttered toast or croutons. 

The back, giblets, the well-cleaned feet, and neck may be used 
for soup or chicken broth. 

Chicken "with Oysters. — Place the blazer with % pint 
of oysters over the lamp, let it come to a boil, then instantly 
remove the oysters from their liquor with a skimmer and set 
aside ; pour the oyster liquor into another dish, return the blazer 
to the lamp with Y^ tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, V2 bay leaf, 6 whole peppers, % even teaspoonful 
salt, cook 5 minutes without browning; add % tablespoonful 
flour, stir, and cook 2 minutes ; add % pint of chicken broth or 
boiling water with % teaspoonful beef extract, cook 5 minutes ; 



46 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

remove the bay leaf and peppers, add V-J^ cupful fine-cut cooked 
chicken meat, cook a few minutes, mix the yolk of 1 egg with 74 
cupful cream, add it to the chicken, then add the oysters and '/j 
tablespoonful lemon juice; serve with 4 pieces of buttered 

toast. 

Rissotto of Cold Chicken. — Place the chafing-dish pan 

half full of water over the lamp, when it boils add % cupful 
washed rice, cook 5 minutes, then drain the rice in a sieve and 
rinse it oft' with fresh water ; melt 1 ounce butter in the blazer, 
add y2 gill of fine-chopped onion, cook 3 minutes without brown- 
ing ; add the rice, stir, and cook a few minutes, add Ya pint of 
chicken or veal broth, Yg teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonf ul pepper, 
and Va cupful canned tomatoes or 1 large raw tomato cut fine ; 
cover and cook slowly till the rice is done, add Vj pint fine-cut 
cooked chicken-meat, cook a few minutes, turn the rissotto on a 
hot dish, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese; mix it 
with 2 forks and serve. 

Quails a la Marazina. — Clean and split 2 nice young 
quail down the back in half, season them with Yj teaspoonful salt 
and pepper ; place 1 tablespoonful butter in a chafing dish, add 
1 teaspoonful grated onion, cook 2 minutes ; put in the quails, 
cover, and cook 15 minutes, then uncover the dish, and, if the 
butter is getting too brown, add a little water ; again cover and 
cook 20 minutes; have a plate on the hot-water pan, put the 
birds on it, add V^ teaspoonful flour to gravy in pan, stir 1 minute, 
add a little water and the yolk of 1 egg, mixed with % gill of 
cream, stir and cook 1 minute, then add 1 teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, mix, and strain over the birds ; 4 pieces of bread cut into 
rounds with a cutter and fried in butter may be placed under the 
birds. 

AH kinds of birds may be cooked the same way. 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 47 

SQ.uab> — Season 3 well-cleaned squabs with 1 teaspoonful 
salt equally divided over the birds, tie each one with a string and 
bend the wings backward ; fry 2 tablespoonfuls fine-cut larding 
pork in the blazer till straw-color, add 1 tablespoonf ul butter, put 
in the birds, cook, turning them often, till they have obtained a 
nice brown color all over, then add Va cupful boiling water, cover, 
and cook till done ; if the water boils away, add a little more ; 
when done, lay the birds on a hot dish with a piece of toast or 
fried bread underneath each bird ; remove all fat from the gravy, 
mix 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, 
add it to the gravy, stir, and cook a few minutes, then add suf- 
ficient boiling water or white broth to make a creamy sauce; 
cook a few minutes longer, then strain ; pour the sauce over the 
birds and serve. All kinds of birds may be cooked the same 
way. The birds may be served over toast or steamed shredded 
wheat. 

Grouse en Spaghetti.— Place 1 tablespoonf ul fine-cut 
larding pork in a chafing dish and fry straw-color, add 1 table- 
spoonful butter ; truss nicely two well-cleaned grouse, season each 
with % teaspoonful salt, put them in the pan breast downward, 
cover, and cook from 10 to 15 minutes, turning them once; 
when they are light brown add % gill of hot water, cover, and 
cook till done ; shortly before they are done add the liver of the 
birds and cook 5 minutes, then take them out and rub fine; 
when the birds are done lay them on a hot plate and cover them, 
add 1 teaspoonful cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water to 
the gravy, stir 2 minutes, add IVa gill of water, stir, and cook a 
few minutes, add the liver, then remove and set aside. In the 
meantime mix % cupful boiled spaghetti with the yolk of 1 egg, 
% tablespoonful flour, a little milk, salt, and, last, the beaten 
white ; put the blazer with y^ tablespoonful butter over the lamp, 
put a small portion of the spaghetti in the pan, the size of a small 



48 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

saucer, fry light brown, put one of the spaghetti cakes under each 
grouse, pour over the sauce, and serve. 

Potted Rabbit. — Cut a well-cleaned rabbit into 6 pieces, 
season with 1 tablespoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper ; fry 2 
ounces fine-cut larding pork in the blazer till it begins to turn 
straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful butter, put in the rabbit, turn 
often with a fork and cook till the rabbit has obtained a light- 
brown color ; add Va cupful water, cover and cook till done ; if 
the water boils away, add a little more ; when done, lay the rab- 
bit on a warm dish, mix Yg teaspoonful cornstarch with 2 table- 
spoonfuls cold water, add it to the sauce, stir, and cook 2 minutes, 
add sufficient water to make y2 pint of sauce ; if handy, add 2 
tablespoonfuls sour cream, cook 3 minutes, counting from the 
time it begins to boil, strain the sauce over the rabbit, and serve. 
Another way is to add 2 tablespoonfuls currant jelly to the 
sauce in place of cream, or prepare the sauce without either. 

Venison Steak, Broiled. — Procure 3 small venison 
steaks, brush them over with melted butter ; place the blazer 
over the lamp, when very hot put in the steak, fry 4 minutes on 
each side ; in the meantime stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a 
cream, add 1 even teaspoonful salt, Va even teaspoonful pepper ; 
spread this over both sides of the steaks and serve. 

Venison Steak k la Maitre d'Hdtel.— Procure 3 

small venison steaks, each weighing about % pound ; season with 
y^ teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper ; brush them over with 
melted butter ; have the blazer hot, put in the steaks, cook 4 
minutes on each side ; dress them on a hot dish ; spread over 1 
tablespoonful maitre d'hdtel, butter, and serve ; garnish with 
water cress and French fried potatoes. 

Venison Steak with Cnrrant-Jelly Sauce. — Prepare 
and broil 6 small venison steaks, the same as in foregoing recipe ; 



VEGETABLES. 49 

next prepare the following sauce : Melt Va tablespoonf ul butter, 
add Va tablespoonful chopped onion, the same of grated carrot, 
and fine-chopped ham ; Va bay leaf, 6 whole peppers ; cook 6 
minutes without browning ; add 1 teaspoonf ul flour, stir, and cook 
2 minutes, add ^/^ cupful water, y^ teaspoonful beef extract, cook 
6 minutes ; add 1 gill port wine, 1 glass currant jelly, stir, and 
cook till the jelly is dissolved ; strain the sauce on to a dish, and 
dress the steak over it ; garnish with bread croutons or potato 
croquettes. 

For further instructions how to cook venison, see my book, 
The European and American Cuisine. 

Bouquet. — Tie together into a small bundle 1 sprig of 
parsley, Vi bay leaf, 1 clove, and Vi sprig of thyme, and use as 
directed. 

Croutons. — Cut several slices % inch thick from a two-days'- 
old baker's loaf of bread. Cut the slices with a cutter into 
round, heart, or oval shapes, brush them over with melted but- 
ter, and bake them on tins in a hot oven to a fine golden color, or 
fry them in butter light brown. 



VEGETABLES. 

Potato Balls. — Peel and wash 6 large potatoes, cut them 
into round balls with a vegetable cutter, place them in the blazer 
over the lamp, cover with cold water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, and 
cook till nearly done ; then drain off the water, return the blazer 
for a few minutes to the lamp, add Va tablespoonful butter, toss 
them for a few minutes, sprinkle over a little fine-chopped parsley, 
and serve. 



50 VEGETABLES. 

French Fried Potatoes.— Peel i medium-sized pota- 
toes, cut them into quarters, and if large into eighths ; lay them 
in cold water ; shortly before cooking, drain and dry the potatoes 
on a towel ; place the blazer with % pound lard over the lamp ; 
when hot, put in. some of the potatoes (not too many at a time), 
and fry light brown ; remove them with a skimmer, lay them for 
a few minutes on blotting or brown paper to absorb the grease ; 
sprinkle over some salt and fry the remaining the same way. 

Hashed Potatoes.— Chop fine some cold boiled potatoes; 
for 1 pint chopped potatoes melt % tablespoonf ul butter in the 
blazer, put in the potatoes, season with ^/^ even teaspoonful salt 
and Vi even teaspoonful pepper ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; re- 
move the cover, stir them up, cover, and again let them cook a 
few minutes, then serve. 

Iiyonnaise Potatoes. — Peel 2 large potatoes, cut them 
into thin slices, and lay them in cold water ; peel and cut 1 small 
onion into thin slices ; place the blazer, with 1 teaspoonful lard 
and the same of butter, over the lamp ; drain and dry the pota- 
toes in a napkin ; put them into the blazer, season with '/^ tea- 
spoonful salt and Vs teaspoonful pepper, cover, and cook 5 min- 
utes, then stir them ; sprinkle over the slices of onion, again 
cover, and cook 5 minutes ; then stir them, and cook till done ; 
turn the potatoes on to a hot dish, giving them the shape of an 
omelet ; sprinkle over a little fine-chopped parsley, and serve. 

Fried Tomatoes. — Cut some large fresh tomatoes into 
thick slices, season with a little salt and pepper, dip the slices 
separately first into flour, then into beaten egg, and last into 
grated bread crumbs or cracker crumbs ; melt '^ tablespoonful 
lard and the same of butter in the blazer, put in as many tomato 
slices as conveniently will go in the blazer ; fry light brown on 
both sides, and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 51 

Tomato Farci de Poulette.— Select 6 medium-sized to- 
matoes, cut a small piece from the blossom side, scoop out all the 
soft part, and season each tomato with a pinch of salt and pep- 
per ; place them in a cool place or on ice ; then prepare a fine 
mayonnaise, cut some boiled chicken into small pieces (about '^ 
pint), cut also 2 hard-boiled eggs and % cup of fine-cut white 
celery ; mix the whole with mayonnaise, turn the tomatoes up- 
side down, let all the moisture run out, then fill them with the 
chicken mixture ; set the tomatoes on to small plates, pour a little 
mayonnaise around each tomato, and lay a border of shredded 
lettuce leaves around each tomato, then serve. 

Tomatoes with Mushrooms. — Clean 4 medium-sized 
mushrooms and lay them in cold water with 1 tablespoonful 
lemon juice; scald 2 large tomatoes in boiling water and re- 
move the skin ; place the blazer with 1 tablespoonful butter and 
1 teaspoonful grated onion over the lamp, cook 2 minutes ; dry 
the mushrooms in a napkin, cut them fine ; place them in the 
blazer, add the tomatoes, sprinkle over 1 even teaspoonful salt 
and pepper mixed, cover, and cook 10 minutes ; dress the toma- 
toes on a hot dish, lay the mushrooms around it, and garnish 
with water cress. 

Asparagnis. — Peel 1 bunch of asparagus, wash and tie it 
up in 4 or 5 small bundles, cut it in even lengths ; have the pan 
with boiling water over the lamp, put in the asparagus ; cover 
and cook 30 minutes, or till done ; then add % tablespoonful salt, 
continue to cook 5 minutes ; when ready to serve, take the as- 
paragus out of the water, remove the strings, lay it on a hot 
plate, and pour over some melted butter. 

Asparagus with Vinaigrette Sauce. — Boil the as- 
paragus the same way as above, and when cold serve with vinai- 
grette sauce. 



52 VEGETABLES. 

Green Peas. — Open a can of green peas, drain off the 
water, and rinse them with cold water ; place the peas in the 
blazer, add Yg cupful boiling water and 2 teaspoonfuls sugar ; 
cover and cook 10 minutes, then mix % tablespoonful butter 
with % teaspoonf ul cornstarch, stir it into the peas, add % even 
teaspoonful salt ; cook a few minutes ; add, if handy, 1 table- 
spoonful cream or 1 teaspoonful unsweetened condensed milk, 
add, last, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped parsley. Fresh green peas 
are cooked the same way, only boil them 20 minutes, instead of 
10 minutes. 

Creamed Com. — Open a can of sweet corn and pour the 
contents in the blazer, place it over the lamp, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful sugar, a little white pepper, and 1 cup of milk ; cook 5 min- 
utes ; mix % tablespoonful butter with *^ teaspoonful flour, stir it 
into the corn, add % teaspoonful salt, cook 3 minutes, and serve. 

Mushroom Bouch6es. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in 
the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour ; stir and cook 2 minutes ; 
add 1 cupful mushroom liquor, 1 cupful white broth, 1 teaspoon- 
ful beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper ; cook 
2 minutes, then add 1 can of button mushrooms ; cook 15 min- 
utes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Vg cupful cream, add it to the 
mushroom, turn out the lamp, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
and fill them into 12 hot patty cases and serve. 

Mushrooms, Broiled. — Out off a portion from the stalk 
of 1 dozen large mushrooms, peel the top, and rub them with a 
little salt ; drop as soon as cleaned into cold water with the juice 
of 1 lemon ; 15 minutes before serving take the mushrooms out, 
wipe them dry, season with ^^ teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, 
brush them over with melted butter, heat the blazer over the 
lamp, put in the mushrooms, not too many at once, cook 5 min- 
utes on each side, dress them over 6 small slices of buttered toast, 



VEGETABLES. 53 

spread % tablespoonf ul maitre d'hotel butter over tlie mushrooms, 
and serve. 

Mushroom 8aut6. — Cut off the ends of the stalk from 1 
pint of fresh button mushrooms, rub the top off with salt, drop 
them into cold salted water with the juice of 1 lemon ; melt 1% 
tablespoonf ul butter in the blazer, remove the mushrooms from 
the water, add them to the blazer, season with % teaspoonful 
white pepper, 1 teaspoonful salt, and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
cover and cook 20 minutes ; sprinkle over *^ tablespoonful flour, 
add % teaspoonful nutmeg and % cupful cream or milk, stir and 
cook 3 minutes, then serve with toast or bread and butter. 
Another way is to remove the crumbs from 6 small French rolls, 
brush them over with melted butter, and bake them light brown 
in a hot, oven, then fill them with the mushrooms ; in place of 
mushrooms the rolls may be filled with creamed oysters or 
lobster. 

Spaghetti k I'ltalienne. — Place the chafing-dish pan 
half full of water over the lamp, cover, and when it boils put in 
4 ounces Italian spaghetti broken into pieces, add 1 teaspoonful 
salt ; boil till done, about 35 minutes, then drain and set in a 
warm place. Fry 1 fine-chopped onion in 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, Yz fine-chopped green pepper without the seeds, a small piece 
of bruised garlic, % capful dried mushrooms previously soaked 
in cold water, or fresh, and if not canned mushrooms may be taken ; 
cook 5 minutes ; then add % can tomatoes, Vg teaspoonful salt, ^4 
teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar ; cook 10 minutes ; put 
a layer of the spaghetti into a dish, pour over some of the tomato 
preparation, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese ; con- 
tinue in alternate layers until all is in the dish, put over the top 
a layer of grated cheese, and, if an oven is handy, bake it 10 
minutes. If the cheese is not liked it may be omitted. 



54 EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Seasoning Salt.— Mix 4 tablespoonfuls salt with 1 table- 
spoonful pepper. 

Boiled Rice. — Place Vj cup well-washed rice in the blazer, 
cover with plenty of boiling water, add /^ teaspoonf ul salt, set the 
blazer over the lamp, and cook about 20 minutes, till the rice is 
tender, but not broken ; do not stir while boiling ; then pour the 
rice in a sieve, rinse oflE with cold water, return the rice to the 
blazer, place it over the water pan, put '/j tablespoonful butter in 
the center of the rice ; cover and cook slowly for 10 minutes, 
then serve. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Scrambled Eggs with Boiled Ham. — Chop fine 4 

ounces of cold boiled ham, break 4 eggs into a bowl, beat with 
an egg beater until very light, add a little white pepper and 4 
tablespoonfuls cold water ; continue the beating 2 minutes ; melt 
1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer over the lamp, put in the 
eggs, stir until they begin to thicken, add the ham, stir and mix 
well together, and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs and Bacon.— Cut iVa ounce bacon 
into pieces % finger long and Vl inch thick ; place the blazer with 
the bacon over the lamp, fry light brown ; beat up 6 eggs, season 
with y4 teaspoonful salt, add them to the bacon ; as soon as they 
begin to set, draw the eggs with a spoon from the side to the cen- 
ter ; when firm, but still soft, put them onto a warm dish, and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs h, I'Americaine. — Break 6 eggs in a 
bowl, add % teaspoonful salt, Yg teaspoonful white pepper, beat 1 
minute ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, pour in the 
eggs, stir until thick, then serve. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 55 

Scrambled Eggs with Bread Crumbs.— Beat 4 eggs 
until light, add 4 tablespoonfuls cold water ; continue the beating 
with an egg beater 2 minutes ; add Vi teaspoonful salt ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, pour in the eggs, sprinkle over 
Va cupful grated bread crumbs when they begin to set, draw them 
with a spoon from the edge of the pan to the center until they 
become thick, then serve. 

Another way is to add, just before serving, 3 or 4 tablespoon- 
fuls grated cheese. 

Scrambled Eggs with Fine Herbs. — Place the blazer 
with 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 
onion over the lamp; cook three minutes, then add % cupful 
fine-sliced mushrooms ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; season with 
y2 teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley ; beat 6 eggs in a bowl until very light, then pour it into 
the blazer ; as soon as the eggs begin to set, draw them with a 
spoon from the side of the blazer to the center until they are 
thick, then serve. 

Ham and Eggs. — Procure % pound boiled ham, cut into 
thin slices, melt Va tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the 
ham, cook 2 minutes on each side ; remove, lay the ham on a 
hot plate ; break separately 2 eggs over the blazer, and drop one 
at a time into the hot fat ; cook until the white is firm and the 
yolk soft ; carefully remove and place them on the ham ; con- 
tinue until the desired quantity of eggs have been cooked, then 
serve. 

If a slice of raw ham is taken, in place of cooked ham, heat 
the blazer, put in a little butter, cut the slice of ham into 2 or 3 
pieces, put in the ham, cook a few minutes on each side, and 
finish the same as above. 

In case the ham is too salt, place it in the blazer, cover with 
5 



56 EGGS AND OMELETS, 

cold water, let it come to a boil, then remove the ham, lay it for 
a few minutes on a napkin, and cook the same way. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes. — Melt Va tablespoon- 
f ul butter, add 1 teaspoonf ul grated onion ; cook 2 minutes ; then 
add 1 cupful canned tomatoes, the thickest part ; season with Yi 
teaspoonful salt, ^^ teaspoonf ul pepper, % teaspoonful sugar ; 
cover and cook about 8 minutes ; then add 4 well-beaten eggs, 
stir until thick ; remove and serve either on toast, fried bread, or 
serve bread and butter with it. 

Boiled Eggs with Tomato Pepper Sauce. — Boil 
from 6 to 8 eggs 5 minutes, remove and lay them in cold water ; 
at the same time when the eggs are boiling, place the blazer over 
the water pan with ^/^ tablespoonf ul butter, 1 teaspoonful grated 
onion, 1 tablespoonful finely shredded green pepper ; cook 3 
minutes ; add 2 peeled and fine-cut tomatoes or % cupful canned 
tomatoes, Vi even teaspoonful salt, the same of sugar ; remove the 
water pan with the eggs and place the blazer over the lamp ; 
cover and cook 6 minutes ; in the meantime remove the shell 
from the boiled eggs, lay them on individual dishes, pour over 
the sauce, and serve. 

Poached Eggs. — Place the pan half full of water over 
the lamp, add % tablespoonful vinegar (no more) and % teaspoon- 
ful salt ; cover and let it come to a boil ; then crack an egg, hold 
it close over the boiling water, and let it drop ; treat the remain- 
ing eggs the same way, lower the flame, so the water will stop 
boiling ; as soon as the white is firm, remove the eggs care- 
fully with a skimmer, cut them into round shape with a cake 
cutter, then slip them on to a hot plate. 

Care must be taken not to add too much vinegar, or it will 
spoil the flavor. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 57 

Poached £ggs with Tomato Pepper Sauce.— Poach 
4 eggs and lay them on 2 pieces of fried bread ; melt Va table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 teaspoonful grated onion, 1 
tablespoonful fine-cut green peppers ; stir and cook 5 minutes 
without browning ; then add 2 peeled and fine-cut tomatoes or 
'74 cupful canned tomatoes, V4 even teaspoonful salt, the same of 
sugar ; cover and cook 8 minutes ; pour the sauce around the 
eggs and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef. — Place 4 ounces 
of fine-sliced smoked beef in the blazer over the lamp, cover 
with cold water ; when boiling hot, remove, drain the beef, and 
chop it fine ; break 4 eggs into a bowl, beat with an egg 
beater until very light, add 4 tablespoonfuls cold water, beat 2 
minutes longer, and add a pinch of pepper, no salt ; melt 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add the eggs, as they begin to set 
draw the egg mixture with a spoon from the edge of the blazer 
to the center until they begin to thicken, then add the beef, stir 
a minute longer, and serve. 

Eggs au Miroir. — Place the blazer over the hot-water pan 
with Va tablespoonful butter ; as soon as melted, break 2 eggs in a 
cup, put them into the melted butter ; cook till the white is firm 
and the yolks soft ; remove them carefully with a cake turner, 
being careful not to break the yolk, and serve. 

Eggs Fritee. — Break as many eggs as wanted into separate 
cups, place the blazer over the lamp with 1 tablespoonful lard or 
butter ; as soon as melted, put in 1 egg, incline it slightly so 
the butter is all around the egg, pour the hot butter with a tea- 
spoon over the egg, turn it for 1 minute on the other side, lift it 
up carefully with a cake turner, dress it on a hot plate ; proceed 
and fry the remaining the same way until the desired quantity is 
cooked, adding more lard or butter if necessary. 



58 EGGS AND OMELETS. 

French Omelet. — Break 4 eggs into a bowl, season with 
% teaspoonful salt, beat with an egg beater 4 minutes ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, when hot pour in the eggs, 
draw with a fork from the edge of the blazer to the center ; 
when tlie omelet begins to get firm, let it remain '/j minute with- 
out stirring, then fold it over each side so that two sides meet in 
the center ; turn the omelet on to the hot dish, the folded side 
underneath, and serve. A tablespoonful fine-chopped parsley or 
fine-cut chives may be added to the eggs before they are cooked. 

German Omelet. — Separate the whites and yolks of 2 
eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the yolks with a pinch 
of salt and white pepper, add 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, pour 
the yolk mixture slowly while beating constantly into the beaten 
whites ; place the blazer over the lamp, when hot put in % table- 
spoonful butter, as soon as melted pour in the eggs, put on the 
cover, and cook 3 minutes, then remove the cover and shake the 
blazer to loosen the omelet ; if it sticks in some places to the pan, 
slip a broad-bladed knife underneath the omelet, lift it up on the 
side it sticks, and slip a small piece of butter underneath it ; aS 
soon as the omelet is loose, cover it again, and cook it till you 
can touch the top with your finger without any of the omelet 
adhering to it, then fold it over and slip it on to a plate. 

Oyster Omelet. — Place 12 medium-sized oysters in the 
water pan without their liquor, add % tablespoonful butter, '/a 
even teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, and 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice ; place the blazer over the lamp and let the oysters boil up, 
then mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls cream, add it 
to the oysters, stir for a minute, then remove and set them warm ; 
next separate 3 eggs, mix the yolks with 3 tablespoonfuls cold 
water, add a little salt and pepper ; beat the white to a stiff froth, 
add the yolks slowly to the whites while beating constantly; 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 59 

have the blazer over the lamp, when hot put in 1 tablespoonful 
butter, as Boon as melted add the egg mixture ; cover and cook 
5 minutes; then shake the blazer to loosen the omelet, cover 
again, and cook till it is firm to the touch ; then put a few oysters 
over the omelet, fold it over, and slip on to a hot plate, and 
lay the remaining oysters around it, pour over the sauce, and 
serve. 

Cheese Omelet. — Put 4 ounces fine-cut cheese in the 
chafing-dish pan, add ^/^ teaspoonf ul butter, '^/^ teaspoonful English 
mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls cream or milk ; place the pan over the 
lamp, stir until the cheese has formed into a creamy mixture, 
remove the pan, cover and set it in a warm place ; next prepare 
a French omelet, put over the cheese preparation, fold it double, 
and serve on hot plates from the blazer. 

Cheese Omelet, No. 3. — Prepare either a German or 
French omelet ; when done, sprinkle over 4 tablespoonfuls grated 
cheese, fold it and serve. 

Spanish Omelet. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 
tablespoonful fine-chopped onions, 1 small fine-cut green pepper 
without the seeds ; cook 5 minutes without browning ; add 2 
tablespoonfuls fine-chopped mushrooms, 1 fine-cut tomato or % 
cup canned tomatoes, 1 even tablespoonful salt, Va even teaspoon- 
ful pepper, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped cooked ham, y^ teaspoon- 
ful sugar, and a little beef extract ; cover and cook 10 minutes ; 
prepare a German omelet of 3 eggs, pour 3 tablespoonfuls of the 
preparation over the omelet, fold it together, slip the omelet on 
to a hot dish, pour the remaining sauce over it, and serve. 

liObster Omelet. — Put '/a pint of cooked lobster meat 
over the lamp in the blazer, cover barely with cream or milk ; 
mix Ya teaspoonful cornstarch or flour with 1 teaspoonful butter, 



60 EGGS AND OMELETS. 

add it to tlis lobster, season with Vi teaspoonfnl salt and a little 
white pepper ; prepare either a German omelet of 3 eggs or a 
French omelet of 4 eggs ; put part of the lobster over the omelet, 
fold and slip it on to a hot dish, pour the remaining lobster 
around it, and serve. 

Tomato Omelet. — Melt ^/^ tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer ; peel and cut into quarters 3 ripe tomatoes, add them to 
the butter, season with % teaspoonful salt and the same of pep- 
per and sugar, cook 10 minutes ; prepare a German omelet of 3 
eggs or a French omelet of 4: eggs ; lay half of the tomatoes over 
the omelet, fold it over and slip it on to a plate ; pour the re- 
maining tomatoes around it, and serve with toast or bread and 
butter. 

Tomato Omelet (No. %). — Drain 1 cup of canned toma^ 
toes in a sieve ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add the tomatoes, 
season with Vi teaspoonful salt, *^ teaspoonful pepper, and the 
same of sugar ; cook 10 minutes ; beat 6 eggs until very light, 
add them to the tomatoes, stir until they begin to thicken, then 
let rest for a few minutes, fold the omelet over and slip on to a 
hot plate and serve. 

Kidney Omelet. — Split 3 lamb kidneys, remove the white 
fatty part in center, cut the kidney into small slices ; fry % tea- 
spoonful grated onion in Va tablespoonful butter 2 minutes, add 
the kidneys, season with Vi teaspqonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pep- 
per, 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, stir and cook 5 minutes, 
sprinkle over Va teaspoonful flour, add Yj cupful water with a 
little beef extract, cook 3 minutes, add 1 teaspoonful lemon 
juice, remove and set aside. Then prepare either a German or 
a French omelet, pour over the kidney, fold over and serve. 

Rum Omelet. — Prepare an omelet of 2 large or 3 small 
eggs the same as in foregoing recipe, omitting the pepper; 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 61 

when the omelet is done, fold and slip it on to a plate, sprinkle 
over 2 tablespoonf uls granulated sugar, pour over Va gill of rum, 
hold a lighted match to it, set it on fire and serve. 

Strawberry Omelet. — Prepare a German-omelet of 3 
eggs, add 1 teaspoonful sugar, omit the pepper ; bake as directed 
in former recipe (see German Omelet). Pick, wash, and drain 
1 pint of strawberries, mash them with a fork, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar; when the omelet is baked, put part of the straw- 
berries over the omelet, fold and slip it on to a hot dish, pour 
the remaining around it and serve. 

Strawberry Omelet with Whipped Cream. — Pre- 
pare the omelet the same as in the foregoing recipe, put half the 
strawberries inside the omelet, spread the other half over the top 
of the omelet, and cover the whole with % pint of whipped 
cream sweetened with sugar. 

Nut Omelet. — Soak Va cupful shelled walnuts in 1 pint 
of cold water and % tablespoonful salt for 2 hours, then 
drain and break them into pieces; cut % pint of shrimps 
into fine slices; if canned shrimps are used, rinse them off 
with cold water before using; melt ^/^ tablespoonful butter, 
add the nuts and shrimps, cover and cook from 6 to 8 minutes, 
stirring them twice during that time ; season with ^/^ teaspoonful 
salt, % teaspoonful pepper, dust over '^/^ teaspoonful flour, stir 1 
minute, add y2 cupful milk or cream ; continue the cooking a 
few minutes, then set aside. Prepare a German omelet of 3 
eggs, pour half the shrimp mixture over the omelet, fold over 
and sUp it on to a hot dish ; pour the remaining shrimps around 
it and serve. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Place the pan with water over the 
lamp ; cover first with a plate, then with the chafing-dish cover ; 
as soon as it boils remove the pan and set it aside ; then put the 



62 CANAPES AND SANDWICHES, 

blazer with % tablespoonf ul butter over the lamp ; when melted 
add 2 thin slices of bread and fry them light brown, lay the 
bread on the hot plate over the water pan, and keep it covered. 
Next clean the blazer. Then put i ounces fine-cut cheese into 
the blazer, add y^ teaspoonful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 
Vs teaspoonful English mustard, or a little Cayenne pepper ; stir 
till it forms into a creamy mixture ; then pour it over the fried 
bread, and serve. 

Note. — In place of cream, ale, beer, or water may be used. 

Cheese Fondu. — Fry 2 small slices of bread the same as 
for "Welsh rarebit, lay the bread on a hot plate over the hot- 
water pan ; crack 2 eggs in a bowl, beat until very light ; add 2 
tablespoonfuls milk or cream, and again beat for a few minutes ; 
add a pinch of salt and a little Cayenne pepper ; grate 2 ounces 
American cheese ; place the blazer with 1 teaspoonful butter 
over the fire ; as soon as melted pour in the eggs, draw them 
with a spoon from side of pan toward the center; when the 
eggs begin to thicken add 4 tablespoonfuls of the grated cheese, 
mix and stir for a few minutes, then divide it over the 2 pieces of 
fried bread, and serve. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Canape Sauce. — Eub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs fine, 
add 1 tablespoonf ul butter, stir until creamy ; then add 6 canned 
anchovy fillets, mashed fine, 1 tablespoonf ul fine-chopped capers, 
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful 
English mixed mustard, dip a sprig of parsley into boiling water, 
then chop it fine, add y, teaspoonful of the parsley to the sauce, 
and use as directed in following recipes. 

Note. — Anchoyies can be bought in small tin boxes already 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 63 

prepared for use at the delicatessen store ; they are freed from 
Bkin and bones, and are divided in halves; those halves are 
called "fillets" ; they cost from 20 to 30 cents per box. 

Canape a la Minden.— Stir the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs fine, add 1 tablespoonf ul butter, 1 tablespoonf ul lemon juice, 
6 canned anchovies, 1 teaspoonful English mustard, mixed, ^i 
teaspoonf ul white pepper or a little Cayenne pepper ; add 1 pint 
of fine-minced boiled ham, also the fine-chopped whites of the 
boiled eggs, and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped capers; mix all 
together. Cut 12 thin slices of bread into oblong shapes, fry 
them light brown in butter ; when cold spread the ham mixture 
equally over each slice ; smooth it with a knife. Put Va pound 
fine-cut American cheese in the blazer over the lamp, add y^ 
cup of milk, stir until creamy, spread it over the canapes, and 
serve at once. 

Canape a la Russie. — Stir the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs fine, add 1 tablespoonful butter, stir until creamy ; add by 
degrees 4 tablespoonf uls Russian caviare, 1 tablespoonful lime 
or lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped shallot or white onion, 
a pinch of Cayenne pepper, 6 canned anchovy fillets. Cut 6 thin 
slices of bread into rounds, fry them light brown with butter in 
the blazer ; when cold spread over the above preparation, giving 
them a dome shape. Place 4 ounces grated Swiss cheese with 
ly^ tablespoonful milk over the lamp, stir till creamy, divide it 
equally over each canape, and serve at once. 

Canape k la Richelieu. — Cut 12 thin slices of bread into 
rounds with a cake cutter, fry light brown in butter (or brush 
the rounds over with a little melted butter, and bake light brown 
in a hot oven). When cold, cover one side of each with a canape 
sauce. In the meantime have the meat extracted from 6 hard 
ghell boiled crabs, ^ut it up into small pieces ; mix 2 tablespoon- 



64 CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

f uls oil with 2 tablespoonf als lemon juice, Vi teaspoonful salt, and 
a little Cayenne pepper; pour it over the crab meat, let it 
stand % hour. At the same time cook 12 canned mushrooms 
with 1 tablespoonful butter, the juice of '^/% lemon, 74 teaspoonful 
salt, and y4 teaspoonful pepper 10 minutes. Set aside to cool, lay 
the crab meat, equally divided, over each canape, put 1 mushroom 
in center of each canape, and around the mushroom 1 teaspoonful 
Russian caviare. 

Canape of Sardines. — Out some slices of a long-shaped 
loaf of bread, and shape the slices either round or oval ; fry them 
light brown in butter, spread each piece with a canape sauce, put 
2 small sardines on the canape, and garnish with fine-chopped 
beets, pickles, and capers. 

Canape ^ la Bismarck. — Prepare a canape sauce ; then 
cut 8 or 10 slices from a long loaf of bread, cut the slices into 
round or oval shapes, fry them light brown in butter, when cold 
spread a layer of the canape sauce over one side of each piece of 
bread ; put 10 mushrooms in the blazer with 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, a little salt, and pepper; 
cover and cook 10 minutes ; then add 20 canned shrimps previ- 
ously washed in cold water, cook 5 minutes, lay in center of each 
canape 1 mushroom, and on each side a shrimp. 

Canape Jl 1' Anchovies. — Procure a can of anchovies 
from the delicatessen store ; open and turn the contents on to a 
plate; dip 1 sprig of parsley into boiling water, remove and 
chop fine ; mix it in a bowl with 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar and 3 
tablespoonf uls olive oil, pour it over the anchovies ; toast 6 slices 
of bread, cut them in to^ oval shapes, cover one side of each piece 
of toast with a canape sauce ; arrange the anchovies like lattice- 
work over each slice ; dress them on a dish and garnish with 
water cress. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 65 

Sandwiches. — Stir the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs with 2 
ounces of butter to a cream, add 1 raw yolk, 1 tablespoonf ul lemon 
juice or tarragon vinegar, 12 fillets of canned anchovies, 1 tea- 
spoonful English mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped pickles, 
1 tablespoonful fine-chopped capers, the fine-chopped whites of 
the boiled eggs, Vi teaspoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonf ul grated 
onion ; when this is well mixed add 1 pound fine-minced boiled 
ham ; spread 1 tablespoonful of this preparation over a thin slice 
of bread, cover with another slice ; then cut the sandwiches even 
all around and in half diagonally ; when they are all prepared in 
this way serve them on a folded napkin. If the sandwich prepa- 
ration is not used all at once put it into a small jar ; cover and 
keep in a cool place ; it will keep for some time. 

Chicken or Turkey Sandwiches. — Cut cold roasted 
chicken or turkey into fine slices, spread some thin slices of 
bread with a canape sauce ; put 2 slices of bread together with a 
slice of chicken between, trim the sandwiches neatly, cut them 
into 3-cornered pieces and serve on a folded napkin ; or spread 
the bread with butter, lay on the chicken, sprinkle over a little 
salt, and finish the same as above. Another way is to mix 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls butter with 1 tablespoonful French mustard, spread 
the slices of bread with the mustard butter, put a slice of roasted 
chicken, turkey, cold roasted veal, or boiled ham between 2 slices 
and finish the same as above; or another way is to put small 
pickles cut in half over the meat between the slices, or spread the 
bread with butter, put on the meat and a little French mustard 
over the meat. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. — Spread some thin slices of bread 
with a canape sauce, put 2 and 2 slices together with 2 or 3 
young lettuce leaves between; cut them even all around, then 
into 3-cornered pieces, and serve. 



66 CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Lenten Sandwiches. — Chop fine 1 pickled beet, 3 small 
pickles, 1 tablespoonf ul fine-chopped capers, 2 hard-boiled eggs ; 
mix all the ingredients together with Vj pint of mayonnaise ; cut 
12 thin slices of bread, spread a thin layer of the above prepara- 
tion over each slice, dip some young lettuce leaves into mayon- 
naise, lay them over 6 slices of bread, and cover them with the 
other 6 slices ; cut the sandwiches even all around, then cut into 
small triangles and serve. 

Sandwiches k la Brigum.— Cut 12 thin slices of bread, 
mix 4 ounces of butter with 1 tablespoonf ul English mixed mus- 
tard, spread this over the slices of bread, lay on this butter some 
fine-chopped small pickles, dip some small lettuce leaves into a 
mayonnaise, lay them over the pickles, and lay over the lettuce 
leaves a thin slice of chicken meat, then some more lettuce leaves, 
mayonnaise, and fine-chopped hard-boiled eggs; cover with a 
slice of the buttered bread, trim them neatly, and cut them 
into triangles and arrange the sandwiches on a folded nap- 
kin. 

Mayonnaise. — The yolks of 4 eggs, 8 tablespoonfuls salad 
oil, 4 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, 1 teaspoonf ul salt, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful French mustard, 1 cupful whipped 
cream ; put the yolks in a small saucepan, add slowly, while 
stirring constantly, 4 tablespoonfuls oil, then 4 tablespoonfuls 
white vinegar ; have the chafing-dish pan half full of boiling wa- 
ter, put the saucepan in the hot water, and stir till the contents of 
saucepan thicken ; then instantly remove ; continue the stirring 
till cold, then slowly add the remaining 4 tablespoonfuls oil, stir- 
ring constantly ; next add salt, sugar, mustard, and last the 
cream ; in place of cream, 1 tablespoonful unsweetened con- 
densed milk may be taken, or the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. 



SALADS. 67 

SALADS. 

Neapolitan Salad. — Set a bowl with the yolks of 2 eggs 
into cracked ice; add 1 even teaspoonful salt, y^ teaspoonful 
English mustard, a little red pepper ; beat this 2 minutes ; then 
add, drop by drop, Yi cupful salad oil ; as it thickens add a little 
white vinegar, 1 teaspoonful in all ; then add 1 tablespoonf ul 
fine-chopped shallot or white onion, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 
capers, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, Vi teaspoonful white 
pepper; add last 1 cupful whipped cream, or add the beaten 
whites of the 2 eggs and 1 tablespoonful unsweetened condensed 
milk ; then cut % pint cooked beets, previously laid in vinegar, 
into small dice-shaped pieces, % pint cold boiled potatoes cut 
the same way, 2 hard-boiled eggs, and y^ cupful pickles also cut 
into dice-shaped pieces ; to this add yj pint shredded cabbage. 
Put the potatoes into a salad bowl, pour a little of the above 
sauce over them, lay the beets and some of the sauce next the cab- 
bage, then the eggs and pickles ; pour the remaining sauce over 
the whole and garnish with a border of finely shredded cabbage, 
hard-boiled eggs, a little fine-chopped beets, pickles, and capers. 

Salad h la Navarro. — Clean and cut into thin shces 1 
medium-sized carrot, lay several slices over one another, and cut 
them into fine strips ; place the blazer, half full of water, over 
the lamp ; cover, and when boiling put in the fine-cut .carrots, 
add 1 teaspoonful sugar, and boil till tender ; then add % cupful 
small green peas ; boil 10 minutes, then drain off the water, and 
place the vegetables into a dish to cool ; cut 2 cold boiled potatoes 
into small dice-shaped pieces, also 2 hard-boiled eggs ; put the 
eggs and vegetables together in a salad dish, add 1 cupful finely 
shredded white cabbage ; add 2 tablespoonf uls of grated horse- 
radish ; prepare a mayonnaise, add half of it to the vegetables, 
mix it well, put the remaining over the top, lay a border of 



68 SALADS. 

shredded lettuce leaves around the dish, cut 1 hard-boiled egg 
into quarters, and lay them over the salad ; sprinkle 1 table- 
spoonful capers over, and serve ; or garnish with shaved horse- 
radish, colored to a delicate pink with a little prepared coloring 
paste. To this salad 1 cupful fine cut cooked veal may be added. 

Lettuce Salad. — For 1 large head of lettuce, mix 3 table- 
spoonfuls of oil with 3 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, Va teaspoon- 
f ul salt, ^^ teaspoonful white pepper, stir 3 minutes ; remove the 
outer wilted leaves from a nice head of lettuce, and also the 
thick veins, wash and place the lettuce for 30 minutes in ice 
water ; when ready to serve, drain the lettuce on a sieve, put it 
in a dish, pour over the dressing, and serve ; in case the vinegar 
is too strong, it may be diluted with cold water. 

Egg Salad. — Boil 9 eggs 10 minutes; remove and lay 
them in cold water ; when cold, remove the shells and cut Y eggs 
into slices and 2 into quarters ; prepare a mayonnaise ; then put 
the eggs in a salad dish, pour over the mayonnaise, lay small let- 
tuce leaves in a circle around the dish, and the egg quarters over 
the salad, and serve. Fine-cut celery may be added to the eggs. 

Cucumber Salad. — Peel 3 fresh cucumbers, lay them in 
1 quart of cold water, add 2 tablespoonfuls salt and a piece of 
ice ; let them lay for 1 hour. Shortly before serving, cut the 
cucumbers into fine slices, put them into a salad dish, mix 4 
tablespoonfuls white vinegar with 3 tablespoonfuls oil, 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion, and Vi teaspoonful white pepper; 
pour this over the cucumbers, and serve. The onions may be 
omitted if objected to. 

Potato Salad. — Cut some cold peeled cooked potatoes 
into fine slices, then measure them — there should be one quart; 
stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream, add slowly Va cup of oil, 
then Ya cupful white vinegar, 1 teaspoonful salt, Yg teaspoonful 



DESSERTS. 69 

pepper, and 2 medium-sized fine-chopped onions ; put a layer of 
potatoes in a salad dish, pour over some of the sauce, continue 
alternately with potatoes and sauce till all is in the dish, pour 
over all a little boiling vp-ater, let stand a half hour, then serve. 

Tomato Salad. — Lay 4 good-sized ripe tomatoes for sev- 
eral hours on ice ; then cut them with a sharp knife into thin 
slices, place them into a salad dish, sprinkle over % teaspoonf ul 
salt, % teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar ; mix % cup of 
vinegar with % cup cold water, pour it over the tomatoes, and 
serve ; 1 finely sliced onion may be added if liked. 

For other salads, see my book Desserts and Salads. 



DESSERTS. 

Cocoa Puddingy. — Soak 1 ounce of gelatin in 1 cup of 
cold water ten minutes ; put 3 tablespoonf uls of cocoa with % pint 
cold water in the blazer, add y2 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla ; place the blazer over the lamp, stir and let it boil a few 
minutes, then add the gelatin, stir until dissolved, remove from 
the fire, and when cold and begins to thicken add 1 pint of 
whipped cream, stirring constantly ; pour it into a form and set 
on ice ; serve with tulip sauce. 

Apple Pannaquets. — Stir the yolks of 3 eggs to a cream 
with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, add 2 tablespoonfnls of flour, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, and 3 peeled and grated apples ; add last 
the beaten whites and bake small pancakes from this in the cha- 
fing dish ; serve dusted with sugar. 

Boiled Pancake. — Separate the yolks and whites of 2 
eggs ; beat the whites to a stifE froth, mix the yolks with a little 



70 DESSERTS. 

salt, y, cupful flour, and 1 cupful milk or water to a smooth bat- 
ter ; then pour gradually, while beating constantly, the batter into 
the beaten whites ; place the blazer over the lamp ; when hot put 
in % tablespoonf ul butter or lard ; as soon as melted pour in one 
third of the batter, cover and cook till light brown on the under 
side, then turn and bake the same on the other side,, slip the pan- 
cake on to a plate, spread over some jelly or marmalade, roll up, 
and keep it warm till the remaining batter is baked the same 
way. 

Snow Pudding. — Put Ya ounce gelatin in the blazer with 
% pint cold water, let it stand ten minutes, then add Vs pint hot 
water, % cup sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and the grated rind of 
% lemon ; place the blazer over the lamp, and stir till the gela- 
tin is dissolved ; then remove and strain through a napkin ; 
place the mixture in a bowl on ice, and when it begins to thick- 
en, beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly the gela- 
tin mixture to the whites, while beating constantly ; continue 
stirring for a few minutes longer, then pour it into a form, and 
set on ice ; serve with vanilla sauce. 

Vienna Orange Cream. — Put Vj ounce of gelatin in a 
small bowl with % giU oi. cold water, let it stand till soft, then 
add Vs gill of boiling water, set the bowl in the water pan, and 
stir till dissolved, remove and set aside ; in the meantime stir the 
yolks of 6 eggs with 6 tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream, add by 
degrees Vg pint of orange juice and 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 
add lastly the gelatin ; continue to stir till it begins to thicken ; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, then add slowly, while beating 
constantly, the orange mixture to the beaten whites ; rinse out a 
form with cold water, pour in the cream, and set aside to cool. 

Apple Fritters. — Peel 2 large greening apples, cut them 
into quarters, remove the core and place the apples in the blazer 



DESSERTS. Yl 

over the lamp, add 2 tablespoonfuls water, cover, and cook till 
done ; remove the cover and let them cook till all the moisture has 
evaporated, then put the apples in a dish, and set aside to cool ; 
beat the yolks of 2 eggs with 1% tablespoonful sugar to a cream, 
add 1 teaspoonf ul lemon juice and a very little grated rind ; add 
the apples to the yolks and 1 heaping tablespoonful flour, beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, add the apple mixture gradually to the 
whites, while beating constantly ; place % tablespoonful butter 
and lard in the blazer ; when melted put in small portions of the 
batter with a spoon the size of an oyster, fry light brown on 
both sides ; serve dusted with sugar. 

Manilla Fuddingr. — Place the blazer with 1 pint of milk 
and 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped blanched almonds over the 
water pan, add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and 
1 teaspoonful butter, cover, and let the milk come to a boil ; mix 
4 tablespoonfuls flour with 1 cup cold milk, stir it into the boil- 
ing milk, cook and stir a few minutes ; beat the whites of 3 eggs 
to a stiff froth, add it to the contents in the blazer, stir and cook 
until thick ; rinse out a mold with cold water, pour in the pud- 
ding, and set aside to cool. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Dampf Nudeln. — Sift 1 cup of flour into a bowl, add 1 
teaspoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful sugar with Va teaspoonful 
baking powder ; rub butter and flour together, mix the yolks of 
3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls milk, add it to the flour, mix all to- 
gether, add 1 tablespoonful of currants and 1 tablespoonful seeded 
raisins ; place the blaMr over the hot-water pan with 1 cupful 
boiling milk, V2 tablespoonful butter, and % tablespoonful sugar ; 
put the batter with a spoon into the blazer, cover, and cook till 
done, which in small portions will take about 25 minutes. To 
ascertain when done, stick a fork through them. If it comes out 
clean, they are done; if some of the dough adheres to it, the 
cooking must be continued. Serve with snow sauce. 



Y2 DESSERTS. 

Omelet Souffle. — Stir % tablespoonful butter with 2 
tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream ; add the grated rind of % Ifemon 
and the yolks of 6 eggs, then add 2 teaspoonfuls flour ; beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, add slowly the batter to the whites, while 
beating constantly; place the blazer with y^ cup milk and '/j 
tablespoonful butter over the water pan, which should be half 
full of boiling water ; when the milk boils, pour in the mixture, 
cover, and cook till firm to the touch, which will take from 20 
to 30 minutes. Serve with Toronto sauce. 

Strawberry Padding. — Place the blazer with % pint 
strawberry sirup over the lamp, add % pint of water ; if not 
sweet enough add more sugar ; when it boils, add slowly 3 table- 
spoonfuls dry farina, stir and cook 10 minutes, add a little pink 
coloring ; have the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add it 
to the blazer, stir and cook till all is well mixed ; pour the pud- 
ding into a bowl and set aside to cool ; serve with cream, which 
should be sweetened with sugar and flavored with vanilla, or 
serve with vanilla sauce. 

In place of strawberry sirup, 1 cupful of orange juice may 
be used, or Va cupful of lemon juice and % pint of water, or any 
other kind of fruit juice or sirup may be used. 

Plum Pudding. — Put 1 pound of fruit cake into the 
blazer, have the chaflng-dish pan, Yg full of boiHng water, over the 
lamp, put the blazer over the water, cover and cook from 15 to 
20 minutes. Haed Sauce : stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream, 
add by degrees 4 tablespoonfuls sifted powdered sugar, stir until 
light and creamy, add 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, rum, or sherry 
wine, or a little grated nutmeg ; serve with the pudding. 

Neapolitan Pudding. — Cut any kind of nice plain cake 
into slices, spread each slice with current jelly, and cover them 
with banana slices; put 1 tablespoonful whipped cream, pre- 
viously sweetened, on top of the bananas, and serve. 



DESSERTS. 73 

Cream Tarts.— Fill some cold patty cases with fine-cut 
preserved pineapple, put a spoonful of whipped cream on top 
of each tart, and serve. In place of pineapple any kind of fresh 
or preserved fruit may be taken. 

Peach Float. — Cut 4 preserved peaches into fine slices, 
put them into a dish ; put 1 pint of milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls sugar, and % tablespoonful cornstarch in the 
blazer, stir until all is well mixed ; have the water pan Vs full of 
boiling water over the lamp, place the blazer over the water, 
stir until it begins to boil, add 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla extract^ in- 
stantly remove and set aside ; when cold, pour the custard over 
the peaches, beat the 3 whites to a stiff froth, mix with 1 table- 
spoonful sifted powdered sugar, lay it with a spoon over the cus- 
tard in shape of snowballs ; break 6 lady fingers in halves and 
set them in a circle around the dish. Bananas may be used in 
place of peaches. 

Pan Doughdy. — Sift y^ pint of flour with % teaspoonful 
baking powder into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful 
sugar, and 1 teaspoonful butter ; rub the butter and flour together, 
add % cupful milk, mix the whole with a knife into a firm dough, 
turn it on to a pastry board, roll it out % inch thick, and cut it 
into strips 1 inch wide. Pare and cut into small slices 4 nice tart 
apples, measure them (there should be 1 pint), put the apples in the 
blazer, add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 tablespoonful water; 
cover the apples with the above paste, have the chafing-dish pan 
% full of boiling water, place the blazer over it, cover, and cook 
25 to 30 minutes. Serve with hard sauce the same as for plum 
pudding. In place of apples, peaches, huckleberries, blackber- 
ries, or any other kind of fruit may be taken. 

How to steam and prepare Shredded Wheat for 
General Use. — Dissolve 1 teaspoonful salt in 1 pint cold water. 



74 DESSERTS. 

dip the shredded-wheat biscuits separately into the water, lay them 
on the chafing-dish steamer and steam 3 minutes, or long enough 
to heat through. Remove carefully and serve with cream and 
sugar. Or serve them with jelly, marmalade, preserved or 
stewed fruit ; or mix currants and raspberries together, sweeten 
with sugar, mash them with a spoon, and spread them over the 
steamed biscuits, or cover them with mashed strawberries sweet- 
ened with sugar ; or the biscuits may be first covered with the 
strawberries, and then vpith whipped cream. 

Shredded Wheat with Milk. — Put a shredded-wheat 
biscuit in a saucer, pour over some milk, let it stand a few 
minutes, and serve. 

Shredded Wheat with Creamed Chicken, Turkey, 
or Veal. — Steam 2 shredded-wheat biscuits as directed, melt % 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, when hot put in the steamed bis- 
cuits, fry 2 minutes on each side, remove carefully to a dish, cover, 
and set aside. Then return blazer with Va tablespoonful butter 
and % tablespoonful fiour to the lamp ; stir and cook 2 minutes, 
add 1 cup of milk and a little salt, stir and cook to a smooth sauce, 
add V2 pi^t fine-cut cooked chicken or turkey meat, cook and stir 
a few minutes, pour over the biscuits, and serve. In place of 
chicken or turkey cold roasted veal may be taken. 

Shredded Wheat to be used in Place of Toast or 
Crotitons. — Steam and fry the bread the same as for creamed 
chicken, and serve it under birds in place of toast or croutons. 
Stewed tomatoes poured over the steamed wheat is a nice break- 
fast or lunch dish. All dishes which are mentioned in this book 
where toast or croAtons are to be used shredded wheat is an 
excellent substitute. 

Canape Minardo. — Steam 2 shredded- wheat biscuits as di- 
rected, then fry them light brown on both sides in butter, lay 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 75 

them on a warm dish, cover, and set aside ; put 4 ounces fine-cut 
cheese in the blazer, add 4 tablespoonfuls milk, ^/^ teaspoonful 
English mustard, and a pinch of paprika, place the blazer over the 
lamp, stir and cook till creamy, pour it over the biscuits, and 
serve. 

Canape Mikadanda. — Prepare 4 shredded-wheat biscuits 
the same as in foregoing recipe. Kinse 12 canned shrimps in cold 
water, drain and fry them 3 minutes in y2 tablespoonful butter, and 
set aside ; beat 4 eggs until light, add 4 tablespoonfuls water, and 
again beat for 2 minutes, add Vi teaspoonful salt and a little white 
pepper. Melt y^ tablespoonful butter in the blazer, pour in the 
eggs, stir for a few minutes ; when the eggs begin to set, add 4 
ounces grated Swiss or American cheese, stir for 1 minute, then 
divide the mixture equally over the biscuits, lay 3 shrimps on to 
each one, and serve. 

PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

Martini Cocktail. — Vs French vermuth, Vs Italian ver- 
muth, Vs Gordon gin. Pour over cracked ice in metal shaker 
and shake until frappeed. 

Dry Martini Cocktail. — Vs French vermuth, Vs Italian 
vermuth, Vs Gordon gin. Shake as above. 

Bronx Cocktail. — V4 French vermuth, V* Italian ver- 
muth, V2 dry gin, thick slice of orange. Fill mixing glass or 
shaker with cracked ice, shake well, strain into cocktail glass. 

Sazarac Cocktail. — 1 teaspoonful of orgeat, 2 dashes 
Peychaud bitters, 1 jigger Bourbon whisky, 1 dash of absinthe. 
Serve in old-fashioned cocktail glass. 

Manhattan. — Fill a glass half full of fine-broken ice, add 
V» glass full of whisky, Ve glass of vermuth, 2 dashes of gum 



76 PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

sirup, 1 dash of Boker's bitters; mix well, strain into a fancy 
glass, add a few drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

Iced Sherry. — Fill a glass y^ full of fine-shaved ice, add 1 
gill of sherry wine, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul lemon 
juice, and 1 slice of lemon without the pits, stir a few minutes, 
and serve. 

Iced Orange. — Fill a large glass half full with shaved ice, 
add a half cupful orange juice, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 1 or 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. This is eaten with a teaspoon. A half 
gill of Rhine wine, Madeira, or claret may be added to this if 
liked. 

Apple Toddy. — Put into a tumbler a small glass of apple- 
jack, Vg baked apple, 2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar; fill the 
tumbler two thirds full of boiling water, and grate over the top 
a little nutmeg. 

Whisky Toddy.— A half tablespoonful powdered sugar, a 
wineglassf ul of whisky, Vj wineglass of water, and a little cracked 
ice. 

Brandy and gin toddies are made the same as whisky toddy, 
using either of the two liquors instead of brandy. These tod- 
dies may be served hot by filling the tumbler two thirds full of 
boiling water. 

Brandy Flipp. — Mix in a tumbler 1 tablespoonful pow- 
dered sugar, 3 of brandy, 1% of water, and a piece of lemon ; add 
suflScient fine-cracked ice to fill the tumbler two thirds full, and 
serve. Gin flipp is made the same way, substituting gin for 
brandy. 

Sherry Flipp. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg with 1 tablespoon- 
ful sugar to a cream, add 1 gill of sherry wine, fill the glass '^ 
full of ice, shake well until thoroughly mixed, strain into a glass ; 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. W 

beat the white to a stifE froth, then pour the contents of the glass 
to the beaten white, while beating constantly, and serve. 

Sherry Fllpp, Plain.— Put 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 
in a tumbler, add 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 gill of sherry wine, 2 
tablespoonfuls shaved ice, stir, and serve. 

Brandy Cream Soda. — Put the white of 1 egg with the 
juice of 1 lemon and 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar into a large 
tumbler, stir until foamy, then add % gill of milk and % gill of 
brandy; fill the glass with fine-chopped ice, shake it with the 
shaker, strain into a glass, and fill it up with plain soda or any 
kind of mineral water. 

Refresher. — Fill a large glass half full of finely shaved 
ice, pour over 1 teaspoonful powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
Curajoa, and 1 gill of Catawba wine ; shake well with the 
shaker and serve with a straw without straining. 

Iced Sherry with Bitters. — Fill a tumbler half full of 
finely shaved ice, pour over 1 teaspoonful Angostura bitters, % 
teaspoonful of maraschino, and 4 tablespoonfuls sherry wine; 
shake well with a shaker, strain into a glass, and serve. 

Rum Sour.— Dissolve 1 tablespoonful sugar in '^ wine- 
glass of water, add 4 tablespoonfuls of rum, 1 tablespoonful gin, 
and 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, and a small piece of ice. 

Brandy and Bourbon sours are made the same way by taking 
either of the two liquors in place of rum. 

Whisky Cobbler. — Mix in a tumbler 1 gill of whisky 
with 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, add 3 slices of orange 
without the pits, fill the glass with fine cracked ice, shake it up 
well, and sip through a straw. 

Brandy Cup. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg with 1 tablespoonful 
sugar to a cream, add 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino and 4 table- 



78 PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

spoonfuls brandy, mix, fill the glass with cracked ice, shake well, 
strain into a glass, and serve. 

Rum Soda. — Fill a tumbler half full of fine-cracked ice, 
pour over the juice of y^ lemon, 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls orgeat, 2 tablespoonf uls old St. Croix rum. Fill 
the glass with plain soda water, while stirring constantly, strain 
into a glass, and serve, or take the ice out with a spoon. 

Orange Soda. — Fill a tumbler half full of finely shaved 
ice, pour in the juice of 1 orange, 1 tablespoonful brandy, 1 
tablespoonful Curagoa, fill the glass with plain soda, and serve. 

Champagne Velvet. — Fill a large glass with 1 gill of 
porter and 1 gill of champagne, then serve. 

Fedora. — Put in a large glass 1 tablespoonful Jamaica 
rum and the same of whisky, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, and 
also the same of Curagoa, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, 2 thin slices of 
lemon, and the same of orange ; fill the glass with fine-cracked 
ice, and serve with a straw. 

Eggnog. — Stir 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar with the yolk of 
1 egg to a cream, add 1 tablespoonful of the best Jamaica rum, 
beat the white to a froth, add it to the above mixture, and serve. 
Eggnog prepared in this way is excellent. 

In place of rum, sherry wine or cognac can be taken. 

Pousse Caf§. — Pour into a fine cordial glass % teaspoonful 
raspberry sirup, over this *^ teaspoonful maraschino, over this *^ 
teaspoonful creme de mint, over this V* teaspoonful yellow Char- 
treuse, then y2 teaspoonful green Chartreuse, and last Vi tea- 
spoonful brandy. These liquors should be poured in such a way 
that they remain each distinct. 

Pousse Caf6, No. 3. — Pour 1 teaspoonful red Curagoa into 
a glass, over this 1 teaspoonful yellow Chartreuse, and last 1 tea- 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. Y9 

spoonful brandy. Pousse cafd is served at dinner after the 
coffee. 

Milk Punch.— Fill a large glass one third full of fine ice, 
add 1 teaspoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, and 1 table- 
spoonful St. Croix rum; fill the glass witb milk, put over the 
shaker, shake for a few minutes, strain in a glass, and serve. 

Milk Punch with Egg. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg with 1 
tablespoonful powdered sugar to a cream, add a small glass of 
brandy, and a little St. Croix rum ; then beat the white to a stifE 
froth in a large tumbler ; add the above mixture gradually, while 
beating constantly, then add suflScient milk to fill the glass, add a 
little ice, and, if liked, season with grated nutmeg. 

Hot Orange Punch. — Boil % pound sugar with 1 pint of 
water, remove, add the peel of 1 orange, let it remain 5 minutes ; 
then take out the peel, add % pint of strained orange juice, 1 gill 
of lemon juice, 72 pint of rum or brandy ; heat the whole with- 
out boiling and serve hot. 

Champagne Punch. — Pour 1 pint of boiling water over 
2 teaspoonfuls of the best Oolong tea, cover, and let it stand in a 
warm place 10 minutes ; then strain and set aside ; when cold 
put the tea into a punch bowl, add Ya pint of Rhine wine, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of brandy, the same of maraschino, 1 bottle of plain 
soda, and 1 quart bottle champagne, 1 sliced banana, and 1 sliced 
orange and a piece of ice. 

Fruit Punch. — Put Vi pint of orange juice with 1 pound 
of sugar into a bowl, add 1 gill of lemon juice, ^^ pint of straw- 
berry sirup or juice, or % pint of raspberry sirup, 2 quarts 
water, Vi pint fine-cut pineapple, and, if in season, % pint fresh 
strawberries, and a piece of ice; let stand 15 minutes, then 
serve. 



80 PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

Gold Claret Punch. — Put 1 bottle of good claret into a 
bowl, add % cupful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls Curagoa and kirech, 1 
pint of cold water, a piece of ice, the juice of 1 lemon, and *^ 
pint of pitted or preserved cherries ; in place of cherries another 
kind of fruit in season may be used. 

Plain Claret Punch. — Put 1 bottle claret into a bowl, 
add IVj cup sugar, 2 sliced lemons without the pits, 2 quarts 
cold water, and a piece of ice, then serve. 

Hot Claret Punch. — Boil 1 cup of sugar and 1 cup of 
water with the thin peel of 1 lemon and a small stick of cinna- 
mon 5 minutes ; add 1 pint of good claret, let it get boiling hot, 
remove the peel and cinnamon, and serve. 

Rum Punch, Hot. — Boil 2 tablespoonfuls sugar with ^/^ 
cup water, then add % gill of best rum, 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice ; let it get hot without boiling, and serve. This is excellent 
for a cold. Brandj punch is made the same way. 

Orangeade. — Put % pint of orange juice and 1 gill of 
lemon juice into a bowl, add Va pint of raspberry sirup, 1 cupful 
sugar, 2 quarts cold water, a piece of ice, Yg pint fine-cut pineap- 
ple, either fresh or preserved, 1 fine-sliced banana, and 1 orange 
cut into fine slices and freed from pits ; let it stand 30 minutes, 
then serve. 

Orangeade, Plain. — Pare very thin the yellow skin from 
4 large oranges, lay the peel in a bowl, cut the oranges into 
halves, and press out the juice and strain it over the orange peel ; 
add the strained juice of 4 lemons, add 2 cups sugar, cover, and 
let stand 10 minutes, then remove the peel, add 2 quarts water, 
a piece of ice, and a few slices of oranges freed from the pits, 
and serve. 

Stra^vberry Punch. — Inclose 1 quart of well-cleaned ripe 
strawberries in a piece of cheese cloth, press out all the juice into 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 81 

a bowl, add the juice of 2 lemons, 1 bottle Kbine or white wine, 
2 eupf uls sugar, 2 quarts cold water, a large piece of ice, and 1 
pint of nice ripe strawberries, let it stand 15 minutes, then serve ; 
if not sweet enough, add more sugar. In place of strawberries, 
1 pint of strawberry sirup may be taken and less sugar. 

StraTFberryade. — Mix in a punch bowl 1 pint of straw- 
berry sirup, 1 cupful lemon juice, 1 cupful sugar, 2 quarts cold 
water, a piece of ice, and 1 pint of fresh strawberries ; if straw- 
berries are not in season, cut 2 oranges into fine slices, and free 
them from all pits, cut each slice in half, and add them to the 
bowl. 

Hot Lemonade. — Boil 1 cupful sugar with 1 quart of 
water, add '^/^ pint of strained lemon juice, heat it without letting^ 
it boil, and serve hot ; add more sugar if not sweet enough. 

Cold Liemonade. — Dissolve 1 cupful sugar in 1 quart of 
water, add a piece of ice ; press the juice from 4 large lemons, 
strain and add it to the water, serve ; if 1 glass of lemonade is to 
be made, dissolve 2 tablespoonf uls sugar in a little cold water, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, and fill the glass with ice 
water. 

Fine Lemonade. — Kub off the rinds from 4 large smooth 
lemons with loaf sugar ; this is done by taking the lemon in the 
left hand and a piece of loaf sugar in the right hand, then rub 
the sugar all over the lemon ; as soon as the sugar looks yellow, 
take a fresh piece, then pour over 2 quarts boiling water, add 
more sugar to make it 1 pound in all ; add the juice of 6 large 
lemons ; when the sugar is dissolved, strain it through a napkin, 
place it on ice ; when ice cold beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff 
froth, add slowly the lemonade, while beating constantly, and 
serve ; or it may be served without the eggs. This makes a nice 
lemon ice when frozen in a freezer. 



82 CHAFING DISH MENDS. 

Soda Lemonade. — Mix V2 teaspoonful bicarbonate of 
soda with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 
and the juice of V2 lemon ; fill the glass with plain soda water, 
stir weU, and drink in the morning before breakfast. In place 
of soda water, seltzer water may be used, or fill the glass with 
ice water and add the lemon juice last. 

Coffee. — The chafing dish coffee urn manufactured to-day, 
with alcohol or electric lamp, is the simplest. The water should 
be boiling and a good rule for strong coffee is to allow a table- 
spoonful of ground coffee for each cup ; let the water spray over 
the coffee (which it does when the water begins to boil) about 
ten minutes ; then turn out the light, draw and serve. 

Tea. — Binse teapot out with fresh boiling water, add cold 
water to the water left in teakettle and let it cook up fresh 
again. Throw water from teapot. Measure with teaspoon, al- 
lowing one teaspoonful of tea to a cup, add measured cups of 
water, cover and let stand during five minutes and serve. 

Cocoa. — Put 1 pint of milk with V2 pint of water in 
blazer; add V4 teaspoonful of cornstarch, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cocoa, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Place over a lighted lamp and 
boil during five minutes and serve. 



CHAFING DISH MENUS. 

Menu No. 1. 

Finnan haddie. 
Crackers a la Poulette 
Cheese fondu 
Lenten sandwiches 
Cocoa 



CHAFING DISH MENUS. 83 

Menu No. 2. 

Tomato omelet 
Welsh rarebit 
Canape a la Bismarck 
Salad a la Navarro 
Omelet souffle 
Coifee 

Menu No. 3. 

Canape Minardo 

Beef steak 

Mushroom sauce 

Bread 

Butter 

Egg salad 

Cocoa pudding 

Coffee 

Strawberryade 

Menu No. 4. 

Eedora 

Clams a la N'ewburg 

Scrambled eggs with tomato 

Sandwiches a la Brigum^ 

Apple pannaquettes 

Coffee 



84 CHAFING DISH AND ELABORATED LUNCHES. 

CHAFING DISH I^UNCH. 

Menu No. 5. 

Refresher 

Clam bisque 

Finger rolls 

Fillet of sole Traviette 

Potted squab on toast 

Mushroom saute 

Green peas 

Lettuce salad 

Snow pudding 

Coffee 



ELABORATED LUNCH. 

Menu Tfo. 6. 

Hot clam pepper roast 

Canape a la Eichelieu 

Venison steak with currant jelly sauce 

Hashed potatoes 

Asparagus with butter 

Salad a la Navarro 

Peach float 

Coffee or cocoa 

Benedictine 



(G) 






^^^ 




i 

■-#: 

.:^.^ 






i«s««»i;<i«w«ws5is»w»ss^ 



;Ss«S&*tS«isiSS» 



J 




Class T/S^z^^ 



Book. 



L . 



Copyright )^°. 



MFIfRIGHT DEPOSIT 




GESINE T.KMCKE. 



CHAFING-DISH 
EECIPE S 



BY 

GESINE^ LEMCKE 

AUTHOR OF 

DE8SKKT3 AND SALADS, AND THE EUROPEAN AND AMERICAN CUISINE 

PBINOIPAL AND OWNER OF THE BROOKLYN AND NEW YORK COOKING COLLEGES 



The culinary science unfolds itself generally 
with the human culture, and offers an image 
of the intellect of the human race. 



NEW YORK AND LONDON 

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 
1912 






'<.-VV 



Copyright, 1896, 1912, by 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 



Printed in the United States of America 

(g;CI.A32?672 



PKEFACE. 

It is better to have a plain dish with loTe, 
Than the finest dish with hate. 

The chafing dish is a convenient and useful article both for 
men and women ; it is so simple that with a little practice any 
one can become in a short time an expert in the art of chafing- 
dish cooking. In using the chafing dish it is necessary to have 
two bowls, a small dish for butter, one for salt, one for pepper, and 
one for flour, a long wooden spoon (called a chafing-dish spoon), 
a knife, a fork, and a few plates, a small milk or cream pitcher, 
and a jar of beef extract. All the ingredients should be got 
ready beforehand, to save confusion and time. 

The best chafing dishes have two pans, the lower one for hot 
water and the upper one, called the blazer. The latter is often 
used without the hot-water pan when the contents will not be 
injured by the direct flame beneath. The Asbesta lamp of the 
best chafing dishes hold about one gill of alcohol and will burn 
from an hour to an hour and a half without refilling: if it 
has been properly filled at the beginning ; particular attention 
should be paid to this part, as it is very annoying to have to 
refill the lamp while the cooking is going on. 



Ui 







CONTENTS. 






PAGE 




PA.QE 


Sauces : 




Shell Fish (Continued). 




Bordelaise . 


. 1 


Clams, Chowder 


. 8 


Marrow — How to blauch 


. 1 


Bisque . 


. 9 


Traviette . 


. 1 


Stew 


. 9 


Vinegretti 


. 2 


on Toast 


. 9 


Bearnaise . 


. 2 


Hot Clam Pepper Roast 


. 10 


Tartare 


. 2 


a la Newburg . 


. 10 


Maitre-d'Hotel Butter 


. 3 


a la Maryland 


. 10 


Tomato a I'Allemande 


. 3 


k la Baltimore 


. 11 


Pudding Sauces : 




Terrapin a la Maryland 


. 11 


Snow. 


. 3 


a la Baltimore 


. 11 


Vanilla 




. 3 


Frogs, Fried 


. 11 


Tulip. 




. 3 


a la Poulette . 


. 12 


Sherry-wine 




. 4 


Shrimps a la Minardo 


. 12 


Orange-cream 




. 4 


with Eggs 


. 12 


St. Celia . 




. 4 


and Oysters . 


. 12 


Transparent 




. 4 


with Mushrooms . 


. 13 


Toronto . 




. 4 


Scallops, Fried . 


. 13 


Tanta 




. 4 


Lobster a la St. Hilaire 


. 13 


Daisy . 




. 5 


a la Citizen . 


. 14 


Shell Fish : 




Creamed 


. 14 


Oysters, Creamed, on Toa 


3t . 5 


Creamed, Plain 


. 14 


Stew . 


. 5 


a la Newburg . 


. 15 


Stew with Milk . 


. 5 


Chops . 


. 15 


Fried, a la Maitre d'Hol 


el . 6 


a la Americaine . 


. 16 


Creamed, Plai 


n 


. 6 


a la Viennoise 


. 16 


h la Poulette 




. 6 


a la Maryland 


. 16 


k la Carey 




. 7 


a la Ranhofer 


. 17 


k la Cress 




. 7 


a la Rousillon 


. 17 


Saut^ed . 




. 8 


a la Bordeaux 


. 18 


Fricasseed 




. 8 


a la Britannia 


. 18 


a la Newburg 




. . 8 


Curry . 


. 19 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



Shell Fish {Continued). 

Lobster a la Tirole . . .19 
a la Malta . . . .20 
Curry, of Canned . . .20 
Canned a la Cream . . 20 
a I'Allemande . . .20 
Soft-Shell Crabs in Batter . 21 

Fried 21 

a la Maitre d'Hotel . . 21 
Fish: 

Eels, Fried . . . .21 
Eels, Stewed . . . .22 
Fish, Fried . . . .22 
Halibut a la Maitre d'Hotel . 23 
Sardines en Croutons . . 23 
Shad Roe with Green Peas . 33 
a la Maitre-d' Hotel Butter . 24 
with Black Butter. . . 24 
Flounders a la Dresden . . 24 
Fillet of Sole a la Traviette . 25 
Finnan Haddie . . . .25 
Dried Haddock. . . .25 
Codfish a la Cream . . .26 

Cakes 26 

Meat: 

Beefsteak with Mushroom 

Sauce 26 

Fried 27 

Bavarian . . . .27 
with Onions . . . .27 

Minced 28 

Hamburger . . . .28 
Luncheon Gulash a la Bedford 28 
Ragout of Cooked Beef . . 29 
Tripe a la Bechamel , . .29 

Fried 29 

Corned Beef Hash . . .30 
Lamb Curry . . . .30 

Minced 30 

Chops, Broiled . , .31 
Pork Chops with Fried Apples 31 
Mutton Kidney a la Mayence . 31 
Lamb Kidneys with fine Herbs 32 
Beef Kidney Saute . . .32 



Heat {Continued). 

Lamb Kidney Saute . . .32 

Mutton Kidney Saute, Plain . 33 

Veal Steak . . . .33 

Wiener Schnitzel . . .33 

Wiener Schnitzel Garnee . 34 

Veal Cakes . . . .34 

Sweetbreads — How to prepare 

and blanch . . . ,34 

Saute 34 

with Pea Sauce . . .35 

a la Bearnaise . . .35 

a la Fonchonette . . .35 

a I'Allemande . . .36 

a la Maitre d'Hotel . . 36 

Calf's Brain — How to blanch . 36 

with Green Peas • . .37 

with Black Butter . . 37 

a I'Allemande . . .37 

a I'Alfonso . . . .37 

Liver Saute . . . .38 

Liver Stew, or Hash . . 38 

Liver, Fried , . . .38 

Fried Liver and Bacon , . 39 

Calf's Liver, Broiled . . 39 

a la Maitre d'Hotel . . 39 

Chicken, Birds, and Game: 

Chicken with Rice . . .39 

Potted 40 

Broth 40 

a la Cream . . . .40 
Saute a la Financiere . . 41 
Saute a I'ltalienne . . 41 
Fricassee with Dumplings . 41 
I'Hongroise . . . .42 

Saute 42 

Curry 43 

Silan Curry . . . .43 
Chicken Livers with Croutons 43 
Livers en Bouchees . . 44 
Livers k I'Espagnole . . 44 
Livers a la Zulano . . .45 
Creamed Chicken . . .45 
with Oysters . . . .45 





CONTENTS. 


vii 




FAOE 




PAGK 


Chicken, Birds, and Game 


Eggs and Omelets {Continued). 


{Continued). 




Scrambled Eggs with Smoked 


Chicken Rissotto 


. 46 


Beef . 


. 57 


Quails a la Marazina 


. 46 


Eggs au Miroir . 


. 57 


Squab 


. 47 


Fritee . 


. 57 


Grouse en Spaghetti . 


. 47 


French Omelet . 


. 58 


Potted Rabbit . 


. 48 


German Omelet 


. 58 


Venison Steak, Broiled. 


. 48 


Oyster Omelet . 


. 58 


a la Maitre d'Hotel 


. 48 


Cheese Omelet . 


. 59 


with Currant-Jelly Sau 


36 . 48 


No. 3 . 


. 59 


Bouquet . 


. 49 


Spanish Omelet 


. 59 


Croutons . 


. 49 


Tomato Omelet 


. 60 


Vegetables : 




No. 2 . 


. 60 


Potato Balls 


. . 49 


Kidney Omelet . 


. 60 


French Fried 


. 50 


Rum Omelet 


. 60 


Hashed . 


. 50 


Strawberry Omelet . 


. 61 


Lyonnaise 


. 50 


with Whipped Cream 


. 61 


Tomatoes, Fried 


. 50 


Nut Omelet 


. 61 


Farci de Poulette . 


. 51 


Welsh Rarebit . 


. 61 


with Mushrooms . 


. 51 


Cheese Fondu . 


. 62 


Asparagus . 


. 51 


Canapes and Sandwiches: 




with Vinaigrette Sauce . 


. 51 


Canape Sauce . 


. 62 


Green Peas 


. 52 


a la Minden . 


. 63 


Creamed Corn . 


. 52 


a la Russie 


. 63 


Mushroom Bouchees 


. 52 


a la Richelieu 


. 63 


Broiled .... 


. 52 


of Sardines . 


. 64 


Saute .... 


. 53 


a la Bismarck 


. 64 


Spaghetti I'ltalienne 


. 53 


a r Anchovies. 


. 64 


Seasoning Salt . 


. 54 


Sandwiches 


. 65 


Boiled Rice 


. 54 


Chicken or Turkey 


. 65 


Eggs and Omelets: 




Lettuce .... 


. 65 


Eggs, Scrambled, with B 


oiled 


Lenten .... 


. 66 


Ham .... 


. 54 


a la Brigum . . . 


. 66 


with Bacon . 


. 54 


Mayonnaise 


. 66 


a I'Americaine 


. 54 


Salads : 




with Bread Crumbs 


. 55 1 


Neapolitan , . . 


. 67 


with Fine Herbs . 


. 55 


a la Navarro 


. 67 


Ham and Eggs . 


. 55 


Lettuce .... 


. 68 


Scrambled Eggs with T 


oma- 1 


Egg 


. 68 


toes .... 


. 56 


Cucumber .... 


. 68 


Boiled Eggs with Tomato 


Pep- 


Potato .... 


. 68 


per Sauce . 


. 50 


Tomato .... 


. 69 


Poached Eggs . 


. 5(1 


Desserts : 




with Tomato Pepper Sa 


uce . 57 1 


Cocoa Pudding . 


. 69 



viii 


CONTENTS 








PAGE 




Desserts {Continued). 




Punches and Mixed Drinks 


Apple Pannaquets . 


. . 69 


{Continued). 


Rolled Pancakes 


. 69 


Iced Sherry with Bitters . 


Snow Pudding . 


. 70 


Rum Sour 




Vienna Orange Cream 


. 70 


Whisky Cobbler 






Apple Fritters . 


. 70 


Brandy Cup 






Manilla Pudding 


. 71 


Rum Soda 






Darapf Nudeln . 


. 71 


Orange Soda . 






Omelet Souffle . 


. 72 


Champagne Velvet 






Strawberry Pudding 


. 72 


Fedora 






Plum Pudding . 


. 72 


Eggnog . 






Neapolitan Pudding 


. 72 


Pousse Cafe 






Cream Tarts 


. 73 


No. 2 . 






Peach Float 


. 73 


Milk Punch . 






Pan Doughdy . 


. 73 


with Egg 






How to steam and pr 


spare 


Hot Orange Punch 






Shredded Wheat for 


use . 73 


Champagne Punch 






Shredded Wheat with Mi 


Ik . 74 


Fruit Punch . 






with Creamed Chicken, 


Tur- 


Cold Claret Punch 






key, or Veal . 


. 74 


Plain Claret Punch 






to be used in Place of ' 


roast 


Hot Claret Punch 






or Croutons . 


. 74 


Rum Punch, Hot 






Canape Minardo 


. 74 


Orangeade 






Mikadanda . 


. 75 


Plain . 






Punches and Mixed Drin 


ks: 


Strawberry Punch 






Martini Cocktail 


. 75 


Hot Lemonade . 






Dry Martini Cocktail 


. 75 


Cold Lemonade 






Bronx Cocktail . 


. 75 


Fine Lemonade 






Sazarac Cocktail 


. 75 


Soda Lemonade 






Manhattan 


. 75 


Coffee 






Iced Sherry 


. 76 


Tea . 






Iced Orange 


. 76 


Cocoa 






Apple Toddy . 


. 76 


Chafing Dish Menus 






Whisky Toddy . 


. 76 


Menu No. 1 






Brandy Flip 


. 76 


Menu No. 2 






Sherry Flip 


. 76 


Menu No. 3 






Sherry. Plain . 


. 77 


Menu No. 4 






Brandy Cream Soda . 


. 77 


Chafing Dish Lunch 




Refresher 


. 77 


Elaborated Lunch 







CHAFING-DISH RECIPES. 



SAUCES. 



Bordelaise Sauce. — Put 1 gill of red wine with 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onions in the blazer, add a small bouquet, 
place the blazer over the lamp, reduce it by boiling to one half, 
then pour it into a bowl ; put 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, when melted add 1 tablespoonful flour, Vj bay leaf, and 
12 whole peppers ; stir and cook 5 minutes, add 1 pint of 
chicken or veal broth, % teaspoonful beef extract, and the con- 
tents of the bowl ; cook 10 minutes, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt and a pinch of Cayenne pepper, then strain. Add 
two ounces of blanched marrow cut into slices, then serve. 

Marrow — How to Blanch. — Cut some beef marrow into 
slices ; place the water pan half full of water over the lamp ; 
when it boils, put in the marrow, cook about 2 minutes, then 
carefully remove the marrow, and put it into the sauce. 

Traviette Sauce. — Put 1 cup of canned tomatoes in the 
blazer, add 1 teaspoonful butter, V4 teaspoonful white pepper, the 
same of salt and sugar ; cook 6 to 8 minutes, then rub the toma- 
toes through a sieve, clean the blazer, and again place it over the 
lamp, with 1 fine chopped onion, 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vine- 
gar and 8 coarsely pounded whole peppers, reduce by boiling till 
nearly dry, then remove, put the contents of the blazer into a 
small saucepan, add the yolks of 4 eggs, set the saucepan in hot 
water, add by degrees 4 ounces butter, in small pieces, and stir 



2 SAUCES. 

constantly ; add 4 tablespoonf uls warm water, 1 teaspoonf ul liquid 
beef extract, 1 even teaspoonful salt ; set the saucepan in the 
chafing-dish pan of hot water, place both over the lamp, and stir 
till it thickens, then remove and strain through a fine sieve into 
a bowl, add the tomatoes, and last 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls whipped 
cream, and serve. 

Vinegretti Sauce, — Put the yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg 
into a small bowl ; rub it fine ; add gradually 3 tablespoonfuls 
oil ; then add 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped shallots or white 
onion, 1 even tablespoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful white pep- 
per, 3 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, and serve. 

Sauce Bearnaise. — Place 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped 
shallots in the blazer, add 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar and 
8 whole-crushed peppers ; reduce by boiling till nearly dry ; re- 
move and pour the contents of blazer in a small saucepan, and 
when nearly cold add the yolks of 4 eggs ; have the chafing-dish 
pan half full of boiling water, put the saucepan in the water pan, 
stir, and add 4 ounces of butter in small pieces ; season with 1 
even teaspoonful salt and Ya teaspoonful grated nutmeg ; stir till 
the butter is melted ; add 1 teaspoonful beef extract mixed with 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water ; then place the pan with the 
saucepan over the lamp and stir till the sauce is thick ; remove 
and strain through a fine sieve. Serve with broiled steak or 
fish. 

Tartare Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream, add 
1 even teaspoonful salt, then gradually, while stirring constantly, 
drop by drop, % cupful oil, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
then Va teaspoonful English mustard, */4 teaspoonful white pep. 
per, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped shallots or onion, 1 tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped capers ; mix well and serve. If handy add 2 or 
3 tablespoonfuls whipped cream. 



SAUCES. 3 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter. — Put 1 ounce butter into a 
small bowl, stir to a cream, add slowly 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice, a few drops at a time, ^/^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg, and 1 
teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley. 

Tomato Sauce a l*Alleniande. — Place the blazer with 
Vj can tomatoes over the lamp, add 1 teaspoonful butter, Ya tea- 
spoonful salt, y4 teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar, cook 15 
minutes ; mix % teaspoonful cornstarch with 1 tablespoonful cold 
water, add it to the tomatoes, cook 3 minutes, then press the to- 
matoes through a sieve ; return the tomatoes to the blazer ; mix 
the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 tablespoonful cold water, add it to the 
blazer, stir until nearly boiling, remove at once, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls whipped cream or 1 teaspoonful unsweetened condensed 
milk, and serve. 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Snow Sauce. — Boil 1 cup of sugar with V2 cup of water 

till it forms a thread between two fingers ; beat the whites of 2 
eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly, while beating constantly, the hot 
sugar sirup to the whites, add last 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 
and 2 tablespoonfuls white wine or orange juice. 

Vanilla Sauce.— Put 1 pint of milk with the yolks of 3 

eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, Va teaspoonful cornstarch in the 
blazer ; mix well, then place the blazer over the hot- water pan 
and stir till the sauce begins to thicken and just about to boil ; 
care must be taken not to let it boil ; then remove, add 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla, and set aside to cool. 

Tulip Sauce.— Mix in the blazer 1 pint of milk with the 
yolks of 3 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; place the blazer over 
the water pan and stir till it begins to thicken. In the meantime 
beat the 3 whites to a stiff froth, add the hot mixture slowly to 



4 SAUCES. 

the whites while beating constantly, add iVa teaspoonful vanilla, 
and serve when cold. 

Sherry-wine Sauce. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg to a cream 
with Va cupful powdered sugar, add Va cupful sherry wine, beat 
the white to a stiff froth, add slowly the wine mixture to the 
beaten whites, add last Vg cupful whipped cream. 

Orange-cream Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a 
cream with 6 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar, add 1 cupful orange 
juice, 2 tablespoonf uls lemon juice ; beat the whites' to a stiff 
froth, add slowly the orange mixture, while beating constantly, 
to the whites, and serve. 

St. Celia Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream 
with 6 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar, add 3 tablespoonf uls lemon 
juice, 3 tablespoonf uls raspberry juice, and, last, 1 cupful whipped 
cream. 

Transparent Sauce. — Mix in a small bowl 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch with Vg gill of cold water, add 1 cup boiling water ; 
pour the contents in the blazer and cook till clear ; remove the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls white wine, and 4 tablespoonfuls straw- 
berry or raspberry syrup. The wine may be omitted if not handy. 

Toronto Sauce. — Boil 1 cup of milk in the blazer, add a 
sprinkle of salt and ^/^ cup of sugar; mix 1 teaspoonful corn- 
starch with 2 tablespoonfuls cold milk, add it while stirring con- 
stantly to the boiling milk, cook a few minutes ; remove from 
■fire, add Va cup of raspberry sirup and a little pink coloring. In 
place of raspberry sirup strawberry juice or sirup may be taken. 

Tanta Sauce. — Boil 1 cupful sugar with % cupful water 
till it forms a thread between two fingers, beat the whites of 2 
eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly, while beating constantly, the 



SHELL PISH, 5 

boiling sugar to the whites ; continue the beating and add slowly 
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls strawberry 
juice or sirup and serve. 

Daisy Sauce. — Boil Vi cup of sugar in 1 cup of milk, mix 1 
teaspoonful of cornstarch with a little cold milk, add it to the 
boiling milk, stir and cook 2 minutes, beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a stiff froth, add slowly, while beating constantly, the hot sauce 
to the whites, add 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. Serve either hot 
or cold. 



SHELL FISH. 

Creamed Oysters on Toast. — Drain 16 oysters in a 
sieve ; melt Ya tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add Va table- 
spoonful flour, cook 2 minutes ; add Vg cupful milk and Va cupful 
oyster liquor, season with Va teaspoonful salt, Vs teaspoonful white 
pepper, stir and cook till smooth ; add the oysters, cook a few 
minutes, pour over 4 slices of buttered toast, and serve. 

Oyster Stew, — For 2 stews procure 1 pint of oysters ; re- 
move them from their liquor with a fork and place them in the 
blazer, strain the liquor over them, add Vz cupful cold water, 3 
tablespoonfuls rolled crackers, Vj tablespoonful butter, 74 teaspoon- 
ful salt, and % teaspoonful white pepper ; let it stand 10 minutes, 
then put the blazer over the lamp and cook till the oysters are 
plump and the edges curl ; take 2 soup plates and put into each 
1 tablespoonful milk, pour in the oysters, and serve with oyster 
crackers and butter ; have also some fine shredded cabbage, pep- 
per, salt, vinegar, and catsup on the table. 

Oyster Milk Stew.— Place the blazer with % pint of milk 
over the lamp, when it boils pour the milk into a bowl and set 



6 SHELL PISH. 

aside ; put 1 pint of solid oysters with their strained juice in the 
blazer, add 1 teaspoonful butter, 3 tablespoonfuls finely rolled 
crackers, 72 teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful white pepper ; place 
the blazer over the lamp and cook till the oysters begin to ruffle, 
add the hot milk and serve. 

Fried Oysters d la Maitre d'Hotel.— Procure 12 
large fresh oysters ; lift them out of their liquor with a fork, lay 
them on a napkin to absorb the moisture, then lay them on a 
board, dust them with flour, dip them separately into beaten 
egg, then in finely rolled crackers, let them lay for a little while 
on the board to dry ; then place the blazer with Va tablespoonf ul 
butter and % tablespoonful lard over the lamp, as soon as melted 
put in as many oysters as conveniently will go into the blazer with- 
out crowding and fry them light brown on both sides ; re- 
move and lay the oysters on a hot dish, and spread over 
each oyster a little maitre d'hotel butter (see Sauces). (Fried 
oysters may be served plain with catsup.) Serve with bread 
and butter. 

Creamed Oysters, Plain, — Procure a pint of medium- 
sized oysters ; remove the oysters with a fork from their liquor 
into the blazer, add Vj teaspoonful salt, ^i teaspoonful pepper, 
strain the liquor, add Vg cup of the liquor to the oysters and Va 
cup of milk ; mix Vg tablespoonful butter with % tablespoonful 
flour to a paste ; place the blazer over the lamp, and when it be- 
gins to boil, add the butter and flour, stir and cook till the oys- 
ters begin to ruffle, which will take about 2 minutes' cooking; 
extinguish the lamp, and serve either over toast or with crackers. 

Oysters a la Poulette. — Place 20 large oysters in the 
blazer over the lamp, add % tablespoonful butter, % even tea- 
spoonful salt, % even teaspoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonful 
lemon juice, let the oysters come to a boil, instantly remove, pour 



SHELL FISH. 7 

the oysters into a bowl, and set aside ; return the blazer to the 
lamp, with Yg tablespoonful butter and Vj tablespoonful flour, 
cook 2 minutes, add % cupful oyster liquor and Va cupful mush- 
room liquor, stir until smooth, add a small bouquet, 6 whole pep- 
pers, y4 teaspoonful salt, and the same of nutmeg, Vz cupful line 
sliced mushrooms, cook 5 minutes from the time it begins to 
boil, remove bouquet and peppers, drain the oysters, add them to 
the blazer, mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Yj gill of cream, add 
them to the oysters, add last 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley, 
and serve at once with crackers, or toast, or crescents of puff 
paste, croutons, or finger rolls. 

Oysters a la Carey. — Place the blazer with Yg tablespoon- 
ful butter over the hot-water pan, add 12 large oysters without 
their liquor, season with Y2 teaspoonful salt, Y4 teaspoonful white 
pepper, and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; cover and let the oys- 
ters come to a boil, then take out the oysters and place them 
into a dish, leaving the broth in the blazer ; mix 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch with 1 teaspoonful butter, add it to the oyster broth, 
and cook 2 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Y2 cupful 
cream, add it to the blazer, stir until nearly boiling, add the oys- 
ters, and serve with crackers. 

Oysters ^ la Cress. — Place 10 large oysters without their 
liquor into the blazer, add Ya tablespoonful Khine wine, Y2 even 
teaspoonful salt, a little white pepper, Y2 tablespoonful butter ; 
put the blazer over the lamp and let the oysters come to a boil, 
then pour them into a bowl, return the blazer over the lamp, 
with 1 teaspoonful butter and 1 teaspoonful flour, stir and cook 
2 minutes, add Y2 cupful oyster liquor, Y4 bay leaf, 4 whole pep- 
pers, y4 teaspoonful salt ; cook 5 minutes, remove bay leaf and 
peppers, add the oysters without their broth, mix the yolk of 1 
egg with 2 tablespoonfuls cream, add it to the oysters, let it re- 



8 SHELL FISH. 

main 1 minute longer over the lamp, add 1 teaspoonful lemon 
juice and serve with crackers or toast. 

Oysters Saut6ed. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add 12 or 16 large oysters, season with Ya even teaspoon- 
ful salt, y^ even teaspoonful white pepper, cook until the oysters 
look plump and the edges begin to curl ; serve at once with 
crackers or on toast. 

Oysters Fricasseed.— Melt Yg tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add % tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1 
cup of cream or milk, stir until smooth, season with % even tea- 
spoonful salt and a little white pepper, add 16 large oysters with- 
out their liquor, cook until they are plump and begin to ruffle ; 
add last the yolk of 1 egg, mixed with 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 
serve with crackers. 

Oysters k la Newburg. — Place 12 large oysters without 
their liquor in the blazer, add % tablespoonful butter, % gill of 
Rhine wine, season with % even teaspoonful salt, % even tea- 
spoonful pepper, cook until the oysters begin to crimp and are 
plump ; then pour them into a bowl and set aside. Return the 
blazer to the lamp, with % tablespoonful butter, Va gill of sliced 
mushrooms, 1 fine-sliced trutfle, % giU oi mushroom liquor ; 
cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Va gill of cream, 
add them to the mushrooms, drain the oysters, add them to the 
blazer, stir until nearly boiling, add a little Cayenne pepper, and 
serve with fleurons or finger rolls. 

Clam Chowder. — One pint clams, yt cupful fine-cut car- 
rots, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-cut celery, % cupful fine-cut onions, 1 
cup fine-cut potatoes, Vg cup tomatoes, 1% pint of boiling water, 1 
tablespoonful fine-cut larding pork, % teaspoonful salt, % even 
teaspoonful pepper, % teaspoonful thyme. Place the pork into 



SHELL FISH. 9 

the chafing-dish pan over the lamp, fry until it turns straw-color, 
then add IVg pint of boiling water, the celery, carrots, and 
onions, cook until the carrots are done, then add the potatoes, 
salt, and pepper ; cook 10 minutes ; add ,the tomatoes, cook 20 
minutes, then add the fine-chopped clam, and their liquor, a lit- 
tle Cayenne pepper, and the thyme. Mix 1 teaspoonful butter 
with 1 teaspoonful flour, add it to the chowder, and if necessary 
add more salt, boil 5 minutes, and serve. If too thick add more 
water. 

Clam Bisque.— Put 1 tablespoonful grated carrot, 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion, and 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer ; place the blazer over the lamp ; cover and cook till the 
onions are done without browning, stirring occasionally ; then 
add Va tablespoonful flour, stir a few minutes, add Ya pint boiling 
water, Va pint clam bouillon or Vg pint fine-chopped fresh clams 
with their liquor, cook 5 minutes, then strain and return the 
bisque to blazer, and again place it over the lamp ; mix the yolk 
of 1 egg with % gill of cream, add it to the bisque, remove and 
serve with oyster crackers. 

Clam Stew.— Chop fine 1 pint of clams, and strain the 
liquor ; place the blazer with 1 fine-chopped white onion, 1 table- 
spoonful fine-cut celery, and % tablespoonful butter over the 
lamp, cover and cook 5 minutes without browning ; add Va table- 
spoonful fiour, cook and stir a few minutes ; then add % pint of 
water and the clam liquor ; also Vg pint fine-cut potatoes, Vi tea- 
spoonful white pepper, and boil until the potatoes are done ; add 
the chopped clams and cook 6 minutes, add last % cupful cream 
or milk or 1 tablespoonful unsweetened condensed milk, extin- 
guish the lamp, and serve with crackers. 

Clams on Toast.— Eemove the bodies from 20 soft-shell 
clams, chop the hard part fine ; place the blazer with 1 table- 



10 SHELL FISH. 

spoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion over the 
lamp, cook 5 miuutes without browning, add the chopped clams 
and the bodies of the clams, season with Yg teaspoonful salt, Vi 
teaspoonful pepper, cover and cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 
eggs with Ya cup of cream or milk, add it to the clams, stir carefully 
for a few minutes, taking care not to let it boil again, pour over 
4 slices of buttered toast, and serve. If toast is not handy, fry 4 
slices of bread light brown in butter and pour the clams over it. 

Hot Clam Pepper Koast. — Melt % tablespoonful butter 
in a chafing dish, put in 2 small slices of bread, and fry them 
light brown ; lay them on a hot plate, cover, and set aside. Place 
1 teaspoonful butter in the blazer with 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped green pepper, a 
small piece of bruised garlic the size of a white bean ; cook 5 
minutes without brewing, then add 4 tablespoonfuls clam juice, 
Va teaspoonful liquid beef extract, a pinch of salt, and the same 
of pepper ; remove the bodies from 6 large clams (soft-shell are 
the best for this), chop the hard part fine, and add it with the 
bodies to the blazer; cook 5 minutes, pour it over the fried 
bread, and serve. 

Clams a la Neivburg. — Place 12 soft-shell clams with their 
own liquor in the blazer, set the blazer over the lamp ; when they 
begin to boil, remove the clams with a skimmer ; pour the clam 
liquor into a dish, set the blazer over the hot-water pan with \ 
tablespoonful butter ; when melted, add the clams, sprinkle over 
% tablespoonful lemon juice, V^ teaspoonful pepper, cover, and 
cook 2 minutes ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with 2 or 3 tablespoon- 
fuls cream, add to the clams, and let it remain for a few minutes, 
then serve with crackers, toast, or croutons. 

Clams k la Maryland. — Remove the bodies from 20 soft 
clams, place the bodies, with 1 tablespoonful butter, in the blazer. 



SHELL FISH. H 

add 1 tablespoon htl fine-cut truffles, 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, 
V^ teaspoonful pepper, cook 8 minutes, being careful not to stir 
them ; mix Va cupful cream with the yolks of 2 eggs, add it to 
the clams, let it remain a few minutes to heat, but not boil, then 
serve. 

Clams a la Baltimore. — Kemove the bodies from 24 
large fresh soft-shell clams, throw the rest away ; melt 1 large 
tablespoonful butter in the chafing dish, add the clams, 74 tea- 
spoonful salt, 6 whole peppers, and ^/2 bay leaf, 74 teaspoonful 
white pepper, cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 3 eggs with 74 
cupful cream, add it to the clams, add 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 
let it remain a few minutes, stirring it carefully, taking care not 
to let it boil after the eggs have been added, remove the bay leaf 
and peppers, and serve with crackers. 

Terrapin k la Maryland.— Melt Va tablespoonful butter 
in the blazer, add 1 pint of cooked terrapin, 3 tablespoonfuls 
sherry wine, 1 even teaspoonful salt, cover, and cook 5 minutes ; 
rub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs fine, mix with 1 cupful rich 
sweet cream, add it to the terrapin, cook 5 minutes, and serve. 

Terrapin h la Baltimore.— Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, 
add 1 pint of prepared terrapin, add 2 fine-cut truffles, 1 even 
teaspoonful salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, % giU of sherry 
wine, cover, and cook 6 minutes ; mix the yolks of 4 eggs with 
Yi pint of sweet cream, add it to the terrapin, stir for a few 
minutes without letting it boil, then serve. 

Frogs, Fried. — Season % dozen well-cleaned frogs' legs 
with 1 teaspoonful salt ; let them lie 72 hour, then dust with 
flour, dip in beaten egg, and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in half 
lard and half butter to a fine golden color; serve with maitre 
d'hotel butter or tartare sauce, 



12 SHELL FISH. 

Frogs a la Poulette. — Season 6 frogs' legs with 1 tear 
spoonful salt and a little pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonf ul butter in 
the blazer over the lamp, put in the frogs' legs, add Vj gill of 
white wine, cover, and cook till done without browning ; remove 
the blazer, place the lower pan with 72 tablespoonful butter over 
the lamp, add Vg tablespoonful flour, stir 1 minute ; add % cup of 
white broth, or water, with a little beef extract, 72 gill of mush- 
room liquor, Va bay leaf, 6 whole peppers, 74 teaspoonful salt, boil 
5 minutes, remove bay leaf and peppers ; mix the yolk of 1 egg 
with 72 tablespoonful lemon juice, add them to the sauce, add 1 
teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley and 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 
turn down the lamp, pour the sauce over the frogs, and serve 
with toast, fried bread, or finger rolls. 

Shrimps a la Minardo.— Einse off with cold water 7a 
pint of canned shrimps, cut them lengthwise in half ; melt 1 ta- 
blespoonful butter in the blazer, add the shrimps, season with 72 
teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper, cover, and cook 8 
minutes, stirring them often. Beat 6 eggs with an egg beater 
till foamy, add 6 tablespoonfuls milk or water, a little salt, beat 
again for a few minutes ; pour the egg mixture over the shrimps 
as soon as they begin to set, draw with a spoon from the side to 
the center of pan when they begin to thicken, sprinkle over 4 
tablespoonfuls grated cheese ; mix all together, spread the prepa- 
ration over 6 slices of fried bread, and serve. 

Shrimps Tvith Eggs are prepared the same as in forego- 
ing recipe, omitting the cheese. 

Shrimil>s and Oysters.— Open a can of shrimps, rinse 
them off with cold water ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add the shrimps, season with 72 teaspoonful salt, 74 tea- 
spoonful pepper, cover, and cook from 6 to 8 minutes ; sprinkle 
over 1 teaspoonful flour, stir 2 minutes, add 1 cupful milk, cook 



SHELL PISH. 13 

a few minutes ; remove the blazer, place the lower pan with Ya 
pint of solid oysters without any liquor over the lamp, add 1 tea- 
spoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, "^/^ teaspoonful salt, 
and a little white pepper. As soon as they begin to boil, add the 
shrimps, and serve ; or mix the yolks of 2 eggs with ^/^ gill of 
cream, add it to the oysters and shrimps, stir till nearly boiling, 
then serve. 

Shrimps with Mushrooms. — Open a can of shrimps, 
rinse oif with cold water ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion, cook 3 minutes 
without browning ; add 1 cupful sliced mushrooms, cook 3 min- 
utes ; add the shrimps, season with 1 even teaspoonful salt, ^4 tea- 
spoonful pepper, and 3 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, or 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; dust over 1 
teaspoonful flour, add % cupful water and a little beef extract, 
cook 5 minutes ; if handy, add Va gill of cream and serve. 

Scallops, Fried. — Wipe the scallops with a napkin, roll 
them first in flour, then in beaten ^g'g, and last in cracker crumbs ; 
heat Va pound of lard in the blazer, when boiling hot put in some 
of the scallops, not too many at a time ; fry light brown, remove 
them with a skimmer and lay them on blotting paper, and fry 
the remaining the same way ; sprinkle over a little salt, and 
serve. 

Lobster a la St. Hilaire.— Split a 2-pound live lobster 
in half, remove the stony pouch from the head and the intestines 
from the tail ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in 
one half of the lobster, season with ^/^ teaspoonful salt and a little 
pepper, cover and cook till the shell of the lobster turns red, 
basting it with its own gravy ; then put the lobster into a dish, 
cook the remaining half the same way ; soak 1 cupful shelled 
walnuts for several hours in salted water, open a can of shrimps, 



14 SHELL PISH. 

rinse half of them ofi with cold water ; when the lobster is cooked, 
extract the meat from the shells and cut it into small pieces ; 
place the blazer, with 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion and 1 
tablespoonful butter, over the lamp, cook 3 minutes without 
browning ; add the lobster and shrimps, then drain the walnuts, 
and add them also to the lobster ; season with 1 even tablespoon- 
ful salt, Va even teaspoonful white pepper, cover and cook 10 
minutes ; then sprinkle over 1 tablespoonful flour, add 1% cup 
of milk, 1 bay leaf, 8 whole peppers ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; 
mix the yolks of 2 eggs with a half cup of cream, add it to the 
lobster, stir a few minutes, and serve over 6 slices of bread fried 
in butter. 

Lobster a la Citizen. — Extract the meat from a 2-pound 

freshly boiled lobster, cut the meat into 1-inch-sized pieces ; place 
the blazer, with 1 tablespoonful of butter, over the lamp, add % 
cupful sliced mushrooms, cover and cook 5 minutes, add the lob- 
ster meat, 1 even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful paprika, 1 gill 
of sherry wine, cook 6 minutes, mix the yolks of 3 eggs with % 
cup of rich cream, add it to the lobster, stir a few minutes, with- 
out boiling, extinguish the lamp and serve. 

Creamed Lobster. — Extract all the meat from a 2-pound 
boiled lobster and cut it into pieces ; place it in the blazer over 
the lamp, add % tablespoonful butter, 1 even teaspoonful salt, 
stirring a few minutes, then add 1 cupful cream and cook 5 min- 
utes ; next mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Vi cupful cream, add it 
to the lobster, stir a few minutes without letting it boil ; extin- 
guish the lamp and serve with crackers, croutons, or serve in 
patty cases of puff paste. 

Creamed Lobster, Plain. — Extract the meat from a 2- 
pound cooked lobster, cut it into 1-inch-sized pieces ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir 



SHELL PISH. 15 

and cook 2 minutes, add 1 pint of milk, stir and cook till the con- 
tents have formed into a smooth sauce, add 1 pint of cooked lob- 
ster meat, 1 even teaspoonful salt, and cook 5 minutes, then serve 
with finger rolls, toast, croutons, or bread and butter. 

In place of fresh-boiled lobster canned lobster may be used. 

Lobster k la Newburg. — Place 1 pint of fine-cut cooked 
lobster meat in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful butter, season with 
1 even teaspoonful salt, a pinch of red pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls 
fine-cut trufiles ; stir 3 minutes, then add 4 tablespoonfuls Ma- 
deira or sherry wine ; cook 6 minutes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs 
with Ya cupful cream and add it to the lobster, stirring a few 
minutes without letting it boil ; then serve with finger rolls or 
crackers. 

Lobster Chops. — Melt Vg tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion, and cook till 
onion is done without browning, then add % tablespoonful flour, 
stir a few minutes, add % cupful boiling water with a little beef 
extract ; season with y^ teaspoonful pepper, % even teaspoonful 
salt, % teaspoonful English mustard, % teaspoonful fine-chopped 
parsley, and a little Cayenne pepper ; cook and stir 5 minutes, 
add % pint fine-cut cooked or canned lobster meat, y^ cupful 
fine-cut canned mushrooms, stir and cook 5 minutes, add the yolk 
of 2 eggs, cook and stir 2 minutes ; then spread the mixture on 
a flat dish and set aside ; when cold take a tablespoonful of the 
mixture, dip it into beaten egg, then into grated bread crumbs, 
lay it on a board, and form it with 2 knives into small chops ; 
when all are prepared in this way, place the blazer with Yj table- 
spoonful lard and the same of butter over the lamp, as soon as 
melted put in as many chops as conveniently will go in the blazer, 
fry them light brown on both sides, lay the chops on a plate, stick 
a small lobster claw into each chop, and serve with Tartare sauce. 



IQ SHELL FISH. 

Lobster a PAmericaine. — Split a 2-pound live lobster 
in half, remove the gravel from the head and the intestines 
from the tail ; cut the lobster into 2-inch-sized pieces and crack 
the claws ; melt 1 large tablespoonf ul butter in the chafing dish, 
put in the lobster, cover and cook 5 minutes, turning the lob- 
ster once during that time ; then add 4 tablespoonf uls brandy, 
% cupful water, % teaspoonful beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
and a little Cayenne pepper ; cover and cook 25 minutes, then 
serve. 

Lobster a la Viennoise. — Put a live lobster into boiling 
water, boil 10 minutes, remove, cut the lobster lengthwise into 
halves, remove the stony pouch and intestines ; cut each half into 
3 pieces and crack the claws ; put 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 
tablespoonful fine-chopped onion in the blazer, add 1 bay leaf 
and 1 sprig of thyme ; lay the lobster over this, the cut side up, 
cover and cook 5 minutes ; add Vg cupful white wine, 4 table- 
spoonfuls brandy, % cupful water, and Vg teaspoonful beef ex- 
tract ; season with 1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful white pepper, 
cover and cook 15 minutes ; lay the lobster on a hot dish, cover 
and set aside ; reduce the gravy by boiling to one lialf, add 2 
tablespoonfuls canned tomatoes or 1 fine-cut raw tomato, 2 table- 
spoonfuls Madeira or sherry wine, and ^^ tablespoonful butter ; 
cook 6 to 8 minutes ; pour the sauce over the lobster and serve. 

Lobster a la Maryland. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter; 
extract the meat from a 2-pound cooked lobster, cut it into inch- 
sized pieces, put it into the butter ; season with 1 even teaspoon- 
ful salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, cover and cook 3 minutes, 
add Va gill sherry wine, cook 5 minutes, add % cupful cream, 
continue to cook for a few minutes ; in the meantime rub the yolk 
of 2 hard-boiled eggs fine, mix with % tablespoonful butter, press 
them through a sieve, add them to the lobster, and serve. 



SHELL PISH. 17 

Lobster a la Ranhofer. — Extract the meat from 4 small 
boiled lobsters and cut it into pieces ; melt 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped shallot, cook 3 
minutes, add the lobster meat and 12 canned shrimps; soak 1 
cupful shelled walnuts for several hours in salted water, drain, 
and add the nuts to the lobster, season with 1 teaspoonful salt, 
Yi teaspoonful white pepper, cook and stir 5 minutes, cover and 
set aside ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the chafing-dish pan, 
add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1% cup- 
ful milk, y^ teaspoonful pepper, Vs teaspoonful salt, % bay leaf, 8 
whole peppers, and a little nutmeg, cook 5 minutes, add 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice ; mix the yolk of 2 eggs with 3 tablespoon- 
fuls cream, add them to the sauce, add 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped 
parsley, remove bay leaves and peppers, pour the sauce over the 
lobster, fill the preparation in the 4 lobster tails, and serve. 

Lobster k la RouslUon. — Procure a 2-pound live lobster ; 
split it lengthwise in halves, taking out the gravel from the head 
and intestines from the tail. Break off the claws and crack them, 
then cut each half into 3 pieces ; place the blazer with 1 heaping 
tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion over 
the lamp, add a piece of bruised garlic the size of a white bean, 
cook 2 minutes, then put in the lobster, the cut side up ; cover 
and cook 5 minutes, pour over Va gill of brandy, set on fire and 
let it burn 1 minute ; add white wine and sherry wine, of each 
Va cupful, % cupful canned tomatoes ; season with 1 teaspoonful 
salt, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, % teaspoonful beef extract ; 
cover and cook 15 minutes ; mix 1 teaspoonful butter with % 
teaspoonful flour, stir it into the lobster, and cook a few min- 
utes ; add last 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; dress the lobster on 
a hot plate, pour over the sauce and sprinkle over when handy 1 
teaspoonful fine-cut chives. 



18 SHELL FISH. 

Lobster a la Bordeaux. — Melt Va tablespoonful butter in 
the blazer, add Vg tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, 
add 1 cupful water, Ya teaspoonful beef extract, Va cupful canned 
tomatoes or 1 large fine-cut raw tomato, season with 72 teaspoon- 
ful salt and a little Cayenne pepper, cook 5 minutes, counting 
from the time it begins to boil ; then set aside until the lobster is 
cooked. Next place the chafing-dish pan with 2 tablespoonfuls 
oil or 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 medium-sized fine-chopped 
onion over the lamp ; cook 3 minutes without browning, then cut 
2 raw lobsters' tails into pieces, put them into the pan, season with 
1 teaspoonful salt, ^/^ teaspoonful paprika, or a little Cayenne pep- 
per ; cook 5 minutes ; make a bouquet by tying together 2 sprigs 
of parsley, 1 clove, 1 sprig of thyme, and a small clove of garlic ; 
add it to the lobster ; add Vz pint red or white wine, cover and 
cook 15 minutes ; remove the bouquet, lay the lobster on a hot 
dish, add to the gravy the above sauce ; cook a few minutes and 
pour it over the lobster ; sprinkle 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped pars- 
ley over the whole and serve. 

Lobster ^ la Britannia. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in 
the blazer, add Va tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 2 minutes ; 
add Va pint of water, with a little beef extract, Va can small mush- 
rooms, 1 even teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful white pepper, a 
sprig of thyme and 1 bay leaf, 4 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, 
and 6 artichoke bottoms cut into quarters ; cook 12 to 15 min- 
utes ; mix the yolk of 2 eggs with % cupful cream, add it to the 
blazer, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice and 1 teaspoonful fine- 
chopped parsley ; remove at once and set aside. Open a can of 
lobster, drain off all the moisture ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in 
the chafing-dish pan, put in the lobster meat, cover and cook 5 
minutes, stirring it twice during that time ; put the lobster on to a 
dish, pour over the above preparation, and serve. In place of 
canned lobster, fresh boiled lobster may be used. 



SHELL FISH. 19 

Lobster Curry. — Extract the meat from a 2-pound boiled 
lobster, cut the meat into inch-sized pieces ; melt 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, add the lobster, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt, and % even teaspoonful pepper ; cook 5 minutes ; 
mix 1 heaping teaspoonful curry powder with Va gill of white 
wine, add it to the lobster, stir and cook 5 minutes, cover and set 
aside ; melt % tablespoonful butter, add Va tablespoonful flour, 
stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1 cupful chicken or veal broth, a 
small bouquet, cook 5 minutes ; mix the yolk of 2 eggs with 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; add it to the sauce ; add last 2 table- 
spoonfuls cream, season with salt, pour the sauce over the lobster 
and serve. 

Lobster k la Tirole. — Place y^ cupful washed rice in the 
chafing-dish pan, add % teaspoonful salt and 1 quart of water ; 
set the pan over the lamp, cover and cook till the rice is soft, but 
not broken ; then drain the rice in a sieve, rinse off with cold 
water, return it to the pan, put 1 teaspoonful butter in the center, 
cover and place the pan again for a few minutes over the lamp, 
just long enough to heat the rice ; remove and set it in a warm 
place or in hot water. Split a 2-pound live lobster in half, remove 
the stony pouch and intestines ; cut each half into 3 pieces ; melt 
172 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the lobster, cover 
and cook about 8 minutes, turning the lobster once during that 
time, then take out the lobster and lay it on a plate ; add 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion or shallot to the butter in the blazer, 
Ya fine-chopped green pepper, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stir 
and cook 3 minutes ; add 1 fine-cut raw tomato, Va cupful fine-cut 
mushrooms, and a small bouquet ; 1 cupful boiling water and ^2 
teaspoonful beef extract ; add the lobster, season with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, cover and cook about 18 minutes ; dress the lob- 
ster on a dish, pour over the sauce and lay the rice in a circle 
around it and serve, or it may be served f^-om the chafing dish. 



20 SHELL FLSH. 

Lobster a la Malta.— Melt 1 large tablespoonful butter in 
the blazer ; open and drain one can of lobster, put the lobster 
meat into the blazer, stir and cook 3 minutes ; add Va gill of 
brandy, Yg gill of sherry wine, and % cupful canned tomatoes, 
1 teaspoonf ul salt, and % teaspoonf ul paprika ; cover and cook 5 
minutes, then serve. 

Lobster Curry, of Canned Lobster.— Melt 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 
onion and 1 teaspoonf ul curry powder, stir and cook 5 minutes ; 
add 1 teaspoonful flour, stir 1 minute, add 1 cup of boiling 
water and a little beef extract, 1 even teaspoonful salt, cook to a 
smooth sauce ; then remove and place the chafing-dish pan with 

1 tablespoonful butter over the lamp, put in 1 pint of canned 
lobster meat, stir and cook a few minutes, add 4 tablespoonfuls 
sherry wine and % teaspoonful salt, cover and cook 5 minutes, 
pour over the curry sauce and serve with boiled rice. In place 
of wine, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice may be taken. 

Canned Lobster a la Cream. — Open and drain a can of 
lobster ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the lob- 
ster meat, season with 1 even teaspoonful salt, % even teaspoon- 
ful white pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice ; cover and cook 
5 minutes ; mix the yolks of 3 eggs with Vj pint of cream, add it 
to the lobster, stir carefully for a few minutes without boiling, 
then serve. In place of canned lobster, fresh lobster may be 
taken. 

Lobster a I'Allemande. — Split a 2-pound live lobster in 
two lengthwise and crack the claws, cut each half in two pieces ; 
season with 1 teaspoonful salt, y^ teaspoonful white pepper ; melt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter in the blazer, pour half the butter into 
the cup ; put in the lobster, the cut side up, pour over the melted 
butter in the cup, cover and cook about 25 minutes. In the 



FISH. 21 

meantime, stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream, add gradually 
1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful French mustard, 
and 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley ; dress the lobster on a hot 
plate, spread over the mustard butter and serve. 

Soft-shell Crabs in Batter. — Separate the yolks and 
whites from 2 eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the yolks 
with 2 tablespoonfuls flour, '^/^ cup of milk teaspoonful melted 
butter, and a little salt ; add this to the*beaten whites, wash and 
wipe dry prepared crabs, dip them into the batter and fry 
light brown in hot fat ; if the batter should be too thin, add 
more flour, and if too thick add more milk. 

Soft-shell Crabs, Fried.— Eemove the spongy substance 
and the sand bags from the sides from 6 soft-shell crabs, wash and 
wipe dry ; melt 2 tablespoonfuls lard or fat in the blazer, put in the 
crabs, two at a time, fry light brown on each side, lay them on a 
plate, sprinkle over a little salt, and fry the remaining the same way. 

Another way is to dust the prepared crabs with flour, then 
dip them into beaten ^gg and cover with bread crumbs, and fry 
the same way. 

Soft-shell Crabs k la Maitre d'Hdtel.— Prepare and 

fry the crabs the same as directed in first recipe ; place them on 
a dish, and spread over each one Vg teaspoonful maitre-d'hotel 
butter. A handful of parsley fried a few minutes in fat is a nice 
accompaniment with fried crabs. Serve with bread and butter. 



FISH. 



Fried Eels. — Cut 2 pounds of eels into 2-inch lengths, sea- 
son with 1 heaping tablespoonful salt, set aside for 1 hour ; short- 
ly before serving wipe the pieces dry with a napkin and roll them 



22 FISH. 

in flour ; cut Va pound larding pork into fine dice-shaped pieces ; 
place it in the blazer over the lamp, fry until it begins to turn 
straw-color, then pour half the pork into a small bowl, leaving 
the other half in the blazer ; put in as many pieces of eel as con- 
veniently will go into the blazer, fry light brown on all sides till 
well done, adding more of the pork as the frying continues. 
When they are all fried arrange them on a warm dish, and serve 
with Lyonnaise potatoes, or hashed potatoes, or roll the eels first 
in flour, then in beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs ; in 
place of pork they may be fried in lard or fat. 

Eels can be served with maitre-d'hotel butter or tartare sauce. 

Stewed Eels. — Cut 2 pounds of fresh eels into pieces 2 
inches long ; put them into the chafing-dish pan, cover with boil- 
ing water, add 1 tablespoonful salt, Yg teaspoonful pepper, 1 
onion, 1 bay leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley tied together with a sprig of 
thyme, add Yg gill of white vinegar, put the pan over the lamp 
and boil 5 minutes, counting from the time it begins to boil ; re- 
move the pan ; keep it covered and set aside ; melt 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour, cook 2 minutes, 
add 1 cupful white broth or water with Yj teaspoonful beef ex- 
tract, if handy Va giU of mushroom liquor and '^/^ cupful of the 
eel broth, cook 5 minutes ; add, if necessary, a little salt, add 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with y cup- 
ful cream or 74 cupful milk, add it to the sauce, stir a few min- 
utes without letting it boil, drain the eels and place them in a 
dish, pour over the sauce, and serve with boiled potatoes or potato 
croquettes or fried bread. 

Fried Fish. — Clean, wash, and wipe the fish dry, season 
with salt, allowing 1 tablespoonful salt for 2 pounds of fish ; let 
the fish stand a half hour. If the fish is large cut it into pieces, 
dip the pieces into flour, and fry the same as eels or halibut ; or 



FISH. 23 

dip the fish into beaten egg and roll it in cracker or bread 
crumbs, then fry. All kinds of fish are fried the same way. 

Halibut a la Maitre d*H6t el.— Procure a thin slice of 
halibut, weighing about 1 pound ; remove the skin and bone in 
center, cut the slice into 3 pieces, season with Ya tablespoonful 
seasoning salt ; lay the fish in a covered dish with 1 small sliced 
onion, 1 sprig of thyme, and 2 sprigs of parsley ; cover and let it 
stand 30 minutes, then wipe the pieces dry, dust with flour, dip 
each piece into beaten egg, then in rolled cracker crumbs ; melt 
% tablespoonful lard and the same of butter in the blazer over 
the lamp, put in the fish pieces, and fry to a delicate brown ; 
arrange them on a warm dish and spread 1 tablespoonful maitre- 
d'hotel butter over and serve with boiled potatoes or hashed 
potatoes. In place of halibut fresh codfish or any other kind of 
fish may be prepared and cooked the same way, and tartare sauce 
may be served with the fish in place of maitre-d'hotel butter. 

Sardines en Crofttons. — Open a box of sardines, care- 
fully turn them out of the box without breaking, lay them on a • 
plate, and scrape off the loose skin ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter 
in the blazer, put in the sardines, not too many at once ; fry 2 
minutes, turning them once during that time ; then dress them 
artistically over nicely fried croutons (see Croutons); sprinkle 
over each sardine a little lemon juice and white pepper. 

Shad Roe with Green Peas.— Place a shad roe in the 
water pan, cover with cold water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 table- 
spoonful vinegar, 1 small sliced onion, 3 whole peppers, and 1 sprig 
of parsley tied together with % bay leaf, 1 clove, and a small sprig 
of thyme ; place the pan over the lamp, cover, and boil 3 min- 
utes ; then remove the pan, let it stand 3 minutes, take out the 
roe, wipe it dry, dip it into beaten egg, and roll in grated bread 
crumbs ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the roe, 



24 FISH. 

and cook light brown on both sides ; lay the roe on a warm dish 
and garnish with cooked green peas and potato balls. 

Shad Roe a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Prepare and cook a 
shad roe the same as in foregoing recipe ; stir 1 tablespoonful 
butter to a cream, add slowly, while stirring constantly, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, % teaspoonful grated nutmeg, and 1 tea- 
spoonful fine-chopped parsley ; spread this over the roe and serve. 

Shad Roe with Black Butter.— Place the roe in the 

chafing-dish pan, cover with cold water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
tablespoonful vinegar, 1 small onion cut into slices, 3 whole pep- 
pers, a sprig of parsley, and % hay leaf ; set the pan over the lamp 
and boil 5 minutes ; remove and let stand 10 minutes ; then re- 
move, dry the roe on a napkin, dip the roe into beaten egg, and 
cover with bread crumbs ; place the blazer with* 1 tablespoonful 
butter over the lamp ; when melted, add the roe, fry light brown 
on both sides, lay the roe on a hot plate, set it over the hot-water 
pan, and prepare the black-butter sauce. Place the blazer with 
% cupful of vinegar, % bay leaf, a sprinkle of salt and pepper 
over the lamp ; reduce by boiling to one half, then strain into a 
bowl ; return the blazer with 1 heaping tablespoonful butter over 
the lamp, let it get dark brown, then pour it into the vinegar, 
pour the sauce over the roe an,d serve. Calf's brain may be pre- 
pared the same way. 

Flounders a la Dresden.— Kemove the fillets from 2 
flounders, each weighing 1 pound, season them with V2 table- 
spoonful salt and ^4 teaspoonful pepper, roll them up cork shape, 
and tie with a string or fasten with a toothpick ; melt 1 table- 
spoonful of butter in a chafing dish, put in the fillets, add 1 
slice of carrot, 2 slices of onion, cover, and cook till done ; re- 
move the fillets, add % tablespoonful flour to the sauce, stir, and 
cook 3 minutes ; add % cupful water, Vs teaspoonful beef extract, 



FISH. 25 

% even teaspoonful pepper, % bay leaf, cook 5 minutes ; mix the 
yolk of 2 eggs with ^/^ gill of cream or milk, add it to the sauce; 
add Ya tablespoonful lemon juice, stir 2 minutes, strain through a 
sieve over the fillets, and serve. 

Fillet of Sole a la Traviette. — Kemove the fillets of 
2 flounders, each weighing about lYg pound, season them with 
1 tablespoonful salt and Vs teaspoonful pepper ; cut the fillets in 
half, lay them in a covered dish, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice, add 2 onions cut into slices, Yg bunch parsley, and 3 
sprigs of thyme, cover, and let them stand 1 hour. Twenty min- 
utes before serving, lay the fillets on a napkin and wipe them 
dry, dust them with fiour, then dip each fillet separately into 
beaten egg and cover them with grated bread crumbs or cracker 
crumbs ; fry them to a fine golden color in hot lard or fat ; re- 
move, lay them on blotting paper for a few minutes, and serve 
with traviette sauce. The fillets may be laid in a thickly 
buttered pan, covered with buttered paper, and baked in the 
oven. The fillets may be served with Tartare sauce. 

Finnan Haddie. — Procure a can of finnan haddie ; melt 
1 tablespoonful of butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fiour, 
stir and cook 2 minutes, add 1 pint of milk, stir and cook till 
smooth, add the finnan haddie, season with salt and a little white 
pepper, cook until the fish is heated through, and serve. 

Another way is to mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Va cupful 
cream and add them to the above prepared haddie. 

Dried Haddock. — Cut 2 pounds of dried haddock into 4 
pieces, place the blazer ^//^ full with water over the lamp, when it 
boils put in the fish, cover and boil 3 minutes, extinguish the 
lamp, let the fish remain in the water 10 minutes, then take it 
out, season with salt and pepper and spread over some butter, 
and serve. 



26 MEAT. 

Codfish k la Cream. — Melt Va tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, add % tablespoonful flour, stir and cook 3 minutes, add 1 
cup milk, stir until smooth ; cover a half pound Beardsley's 
shredded codfish with cold water, let it lay 1 minute, then inclose 
it in a towel, press dry ; add the codfish to the sauce, season with 
% teaspoonful salt and a little white pepper, stir until the fish is 
heated through without boiling ; extinguish the lamp, and serve 
with boiled potatoes. 

Codfish Cakes. — Peel 4 large potatoes and cut them into 
pieces, wash and place them in the blazer over the lamp, cover 
with water and cook till done ; drain off the water and mash the 
potatoes fine with a fork, add % cupful Beardsley's shredded cod- 
fish as it comes from the box, 72 tablespoonful butter, and 1 egg ; 
mix all together and form into balls, roll them in flour and fry 
brown in fat. 



MEAT. 



Beefsteak with Mushroom Sauce.— Melt Vj table- 
spoonful butter, add % tablespoonful flour, stir 2 minutes ; add % 
pint of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful liquid beef extract, cook a 
few minutes ; add 12 canned mushrooms and % cupful mush- 
room liquor, Va even teaspoonful salt, and % teaspoonful pepper ; 
cook 15 minutes ; add last % tablespoonful lemon juice, remove 
and set aside till the steak is cooked ; procure a nice tender beef- 
steak, remove all skin and fat, cut the steak into 3 pieces, brush 
them over on both sides with a little melted butter ; place the 
blazer over the lamp, when very hot put in the meat, not too 
much at a time, fry 5 minutes on each side, lay the steak on to a 
hot plate ; mix % tablespoonful butter with Va teaspoonful salt 



MEAT. 27 

and Vi teaspoonful pepper, spread this over both sides of the 
steak, pour over the mushroom sauce, and serve. 

Beefsteak, Fried. — Procure a small porterhouse steak, 
trim o£E all the fat and skin ; place the pan half full of water 
over the lamp, put on first a plate, then the cover ; when it boils, 
remove the pan and place the blazer over the lamp ; when very 
hot put in 1 teaspoonful butter, as soon as melted put in the meat 
and fry from 4 to 5 minutes, then turn and fry the same on the 
other side ; lay the meat on the hot plate, mix 1 teaspoonful but- 
ter with Va teaspoonful salt and Vs teaspoonful pepper, spread it 
over the meat on both sides, and serve. 

Sirloin and round steaks are cooked the same. 

Bavarian Beefsteak. — Placing the chafing-dish pan with 
1 tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion 
over the lamp, cover and cook 5 minutes without browning, then 
add 3 large peeled tomatoes, season with ^/^^ even teaspoonful salt, 
a saltspoon full of pepper, and Vz teaspoonful sugar ; cover and 
cook 8 minutes, remove the cover, stir and cook a few minutes, 
then remove the pan, cover and set aside. 

Mix 1 pound of lean, tender, fine-chopped beef with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt and Vi teaspoonful pepper, divide and form the 
meat into 4 flat cakes ; brush each side over with melted butter, 
place the blazer over the lamp, when hot put in 2 of the steaks, 
fry 4 minutes on each side, place the steaks on a hot dish and fry 
the remaining two the same way ; pour over the tomatoes and 
serve. 

Beefsteak with Onions.— Peel and cut into slices 2 or 3 
onions of medium size ; heat 1 tablespoonful butter or beef fat in 
the blazer, put in the onion, season with ^/i^ teaspoonful salt and a 
little pepper, cover, and cook 3 minutes ; remove the cover, stir 
the onions up, and again cover and cook a few minutes; then 



28 MEAT. 

take off the cover, and stir till done. Fry the beefsteak and 
season the same as in foregoing recipe, lay it on a plate, and pour 
the onions over it ; serve with boiled potatoes or fried potatoes. 
Porterhouse, sirloin, and round steak can be fried and served the 
same way. 

Minced Beefsteak. — Procure 1 pound of beef from the 
lower sirloin or upper round, minced fine ; remove all fat and 
stringy parts, form the meat into 4 flat cakes. Place the blazer 
with Ya tablespoonful butter over the lamp ; when hot put in the 
meat, cook 4 minutes on each side, lay them on a hot dish. Mix 
1 tablespoonful butter with Yj teaspoonf ul salt and y^ teaspoonful 
pepper, spread this over the steak on both sides, and serve with 
fried potatoes or bread and butter. 

Hamburger Steak. — Mix 1 pound of finely ground beef 
with 2 ounces minced suet, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion, 1 
egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper ; form this into 4 
flat cakes, roll them in grated bread crumbs. Heat % tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, put in 2 of the steaks, fry from 3 to 4 min- 
utes on each side, lay them on a hot plate, fry the remaining 2 the 
same way, add y^ teaspoonful flour to the gravy, a little beef extract, 
% cup water, and a pinch of salt ; cook until smooth, strain the 
sauce over the steaks, and serve with Lyonnaise or fried potatoes. 

Luncheon Gulash a la Bedford. — Put 1 tablespoon- 
ful drippings and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion in the blazer 
over the lamp, cook till the onion is straw-color, then add % ta- 
blespoonful butter, 1 pound fine-cut beef of the upper round cut 
into small dice-shaped pieces, season with Va teaspoonful salt, 1 
level teaspoonful paprika, cook a few minutes ; add 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour, mix well with the meat, add 1 cup of boiling water, and 
a little beef extract ; cook a few minutes, add 1 fine-cut large 
potato, cover, and cook 10 minutes, then serve. 



MEAT. 29 

Ragout of Cooked Beef.— Cut IVa pound of cold roasted 
beef into small dice-shaped pieces ; fry 1 tablespoouf ul line-cut lard- 
ing pork in the blazer till it turns straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped onion, cook a few minutes ; 
add the meat, season with 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful papri- 
ka or y2 teaspoonful pepper, stir, and cook 5 minutes ; dust over 
Va tablespoonful flour, stir 1 minute, add ^/^ pint of boiling water 
and a little beef extract, cover, and cook 20 minutes, then serve. 

Ragout of cold roasted veal, lamb, or mutton is prepared the 
same way. 

Tripe a la Bechamel. — Wash and cut 1 pound of tripe 
into 3-inch pieces, place them in the lower pan of the chafing 
dish, cover with water, add 1 bay leaf, 12 whole peppers, 1 sliced 
onion, Vg gill of vinegar, and 1 teaspoonful salt ; cook 15 min- 
utes ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour ; cook 2 minutes ; add iVa cupful milk or cream, 1 even 
teaspoonful salt, Ya teaspoonful nutmeg, if handy Yj gill of mush- 
room liquor, Vg bay leaf, 8 whole peppers ; boil 5 minutes ; mix 
the yolks of 2 eggs with Yj gill of cream, add it to the sauce, 
add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Transfer the tripe to a dish, 
and strain the sauce over it. 

Fried Tripe. — Wash and cut 1 pound of tripe into 3-inch- 
sized pieces, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt and Vg teaspoon- 
ful pepper ; lay the tripe in a dish, and cover with 1 cupful 
vinegar and Vj cup of cold water ; let stand over night. Next 
morning dry the tripe on a napkin, put some flour into a bowl, 
1 beaten egg on a plate, and some bread crumbs on another 
plate ; take the tripe up with a fork, dip first in the flour, 
then in the beaten e,^^^ and last in the bread crumbs ; melt 1 
tablespoonful fat or butter in the blazer, put in as many of the 
tripe pieces as conveniently will go in, and fry light brown 



30 MEAT. 

on both sides ; when all are fried lay on a warm dish and 
serve. 

Or place the tripe for 2 hours with a sKced onion, the juice 
of 1 lemon, and 1 clove of garlic in a covered dish ; season with 
salt and pepper, and finish the same as above. Serve with 
maitre d'hotel butter. 

Corned Beef Hash. — If cooked corned beef is not at 
hand, take canned corned beef ; mix 1 pound of fine-chopped 
corned beef with 1 pint of fine-chopped boiled potatoes ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion ; 
cook 3 minutes without browning; add 1 tablespoonful flour; stir 
and cook a few minutes ; add Vg pint of boiling water and Va tea- 
spoonful beef extract ; stir and cook 3 minutes ; add meat and 
potatoes ; season with ^4 teaspoonful pepper and salt to taste ; 
stir and cook 6 minutes, then serve. The hash may be spread 
"on buttered toast, and a poached egg laid on top of each piece. 

Lamb Curry. — Cut some cold cooked lamb in inch-sized 
pieces, then measure ; there should be 1 pint ; fry 1% tablespoon- 
ful chopped onion in 1 tablespoonful butter 3 minutes ; add 1 
heaping teaspoonful curry powder ; cook 2 minutes ; add 1 
tablespoonful flour ; stir and cook a few minutes ; add 1 pint 
of boiling water, a little beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt, % tea- 
spoonful white pepper ; cook to a creamy sauce, then add the 
lamb ; cover and cook 10 minutes ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, add it to the lamb, turn down the lamp, 
and serve with boiled rice. In place of lamb, cold roasted turkey, 
chicken, or veal may be used. 

Minced Lamb. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, 
add 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion ; cook 3 minutes with- 
out browning ; add Ya tablespoonful flour ; stir 2 minutes ; add 
Ya pint boiling water with a little beef extract ; season with % 



MEAT. 31 

teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful pepper, ^/^ teaspoonful nutmeg, ^^ 
bay leaf, 4 whole peppers ; cook 5 minutes, removing bay leaf 
and peppers ; put in 1 pint of fine-chopped roasted or boiled 
lamb ; cook 10 minutes ; serve on a warm dish with a little fine- 
chopped parsley sprinkled over. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. — Procure 1 pound of nicely 
trimmed lamb chops, heat the blazer over the lamp, put in the 
chops ; fry them about 4 minutes on each side ; lay them on a hot 
plate ; mix 1 tablespoonful butter with Yg teaspoonful salt, 74 tea- 
spoonful pepper ; spread this seasoning butter over both sides 
of the steak, and serve with fried tomatoes, and, if handy, baked 
potatoes or hashed potatoes. 

Pork Chops with Fried Apples.— Procure 1 pound of 
pork chops, those with a small rib in are the best ; heat the 
blazer ; put in 1 teaspoonful butter ; put in the chops, not too 
many at once ; fry 5 minutes, turning the chops once during 
that time ; then cover and cook 5 minutes longer, turning them 
again once during that time ; when done, lay the chops on a 
warm dish ; mix 1 tablespoonful butter with Yg teaspoonful salt 
and Vi teaspoonful pepper ; spread this over both sides of the 
chops ; cut 2 large sour apples into thick slices, add a little more 
butter to the fat in the blazer ; put in the apple slices ; cook 
until done without being broken ; dress the apple slices over the 
chops and serve. 

Mutton Kidney h la Mayence.— Split 6 mutton kid- 
neys in half, remove the white center, cut the kidneys into slices, 
season with 1 teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful pepper ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, a piece of bruised garlic the size of a coffee bean, 
stir and cook 5 minutes, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful flour, stir 1 
minute, add 1 gill of red wine, 1 gill of water, a little beef ex- 



32 MEAT. 

tract, and a pincli of paprika ; cook 2 roiniites, and serve over 4 
slices of fried or toasted bread. 

Lamb Kidneys with Fine Herbs. — Split 6 lamb 
kidneys, remove the white center part, cut the kidneys into 
slices, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt and Vi teaspoonful 
pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonf nl butter in the blazer, add 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped mush- 
rooms ; cook 5 minutes, then add the kidneys ; cook 2 minutes ; 
add Va cupful sherry wine, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; cook 5 
minutes; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls cream, 
add it to the kidneys, stir for a few minutes, taking care not to let 
it boil again ; serve in patty cases. 

Beef Kidney Saut6. — Split 1 beef kidney in half, re- 
move the white center part, cut the kidney into slices, season 
with 1 teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful pepper ; place the blazer 
with 1 tablespoonful butter over the lamp, add 1 tablespoonful 
fine-chopped onion ; cook 5 minutes without browning, add the 
kidneys, cover and cook 5 minutes, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful 
flour, add Vg cupful boiling water, stir and cook 3 minutes, add 
last 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, and serve with toast or croutons. 
Beef kidney may be prepared the same as mutton kidney, allow- 
ing the same ingredients for 1 beef kidney as for 6 mutton kid- 
neys. 

Lamb Kidney Saut^. — Place the pan with water over 
the lamp, cover first with a plate and then with the chafing-dish 
cover ; split 3 lamb or mutton kidneys in half, remove the white 
fatty part from the center, and cut the kidneys into slices ; season 
with ^/^ teaspoonful salt and Yg teaspoonful pepper ; as soon as 
the water boils, remove the pan and place the blazer with % 
tablespoonful butter over the lamp, add 2 small slices of bread, 
fry them light brown on both sides ; remove and lay them on the 



MEAT. 33 

hot plate, then pnt '^/-^ tablespoonfnl butter in the blazer, add Va 
tablespoonf ul fine-chopped onion (or Vg teaspoonf ul grated onion) ; 
cook and stir 3 minutes, then add the kidneys, cook 5 minutes, 
sprinkle over Yg teasp®onful flour, stir 1 minute, add V2 gill sherry 
wine, Va gill boiling water, with Yg teaspoonful liquid beef ex- 
tract, cook 5 minutes longer, add last 1 teaspoonful lemon juice ; 
pour the kidneys over the fried bread, and serve. 

Mutton Kidney Savite, Plain. — Split 6 mutton or 
lamb kidneys in half, remove the white center part, cut the kid- 
neys into slices, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt, Vi teaspoon- 
ful pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add the 
kidneys, cover and cook 3 minutes, sprinkle over Yg teaspoonful 
flour, stir a few minutes, add Ya cupful water and, if handy, a 
little beef extract ; add 1 tablespoonfnl lemon juice, toss for a few 
minutes, and serve with croutons or toast. 

Veal Steak. — Have the butcher chop or grind exceedingly 
fine y4 pound veal and 2 ounces beef fat, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful pepper, 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, and 1 Qg^ ; mix the ingredients well together, 
divide it into 3 parts, form them into oblong shapes, flatten a lit- 
tle, and cover with fresh-grated bread crumbs ; heat 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, put in the steaks, fry light brown on 
each side, about 8 minutes in all ; lay the steaks on a warm dish, 
add % teaspoonful flour to the gravy, a little salt, and beef ex- 
tract, cook 2 minutes, add Y2 cup water, cover and cook 3 min- 
utes, add a pinch of pepper, and strain over the meat. 

Wiener Schnitzel. — Procure 1 pound veal from the leg, 
cut into thin slices a half inch thick and 3 inches square ; pare 
the corners round ; beat lightly to flatten them, then season with 
% tablespoonful salt and pepper, dust with flour ; dip each 
slice into beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs ; then pat 



34 MEAT. 

smooth with a knife ; heat Vj tablespoonf ul butter and the same 
of lard in the blazer, put in 2 slices, fry 3 to 4 minutes on each 
side, remove and lay them on a hot plate, fry the remaining the 
same way, and serve with cut lemon. 

Wiener Schnitzel Garn^e. — Prepare and fry the 

schnitzel the same as in foregoing recipe ; arrange them on a 
warm dish, lay in the center of each schnitzel 72 teaspoonful 
capers ; soak 4 anchovies for several hours in cold water, remove 
skin and bones, divide them in halves, roll them up, place 2 rolls 
on each schnitzel, and 74 lemon cut in two ; garnish with water 
cress or parsley ; any kind of vegetables may be served with this. 

Veal Cakes. — Procure 1 pound fine-minced veal, season 
with 1 teaspoonful salt, ^4 teaspoonful pepper, form the meat 
into 4 round balls, flatten them to a half inch in thickness ; heat 
1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the meat (not too 
much at a time) and fry from 4 to 5 minutes on each side ; if 
it fries too fast, lower the lamp a little ; serve with cut lemon. 

Sweetbreads — How to prepare and blanch. — Lay 

the sweetbreads for 2 hours in cold water, changing the water 
several times ; then place them in the blazer over the lamp, cover 
with cold water, and let them boil 10 minutes ; remove and lay the 
sweetbread in cold water ; when cold take them out of the water, 
remove the windpipes, fibers, and fatty parts, and place the sweet- 
breads between 2 plates to press lightly. They are then ready to 
be prepared as explained in following recipes. 

Sweetbreads Saut6. — Blanch and prepare 2 large sweet- 
breads as directed in foregoing recipe ; season with salt, dust 
lightly with flour, dip into beaten egg, and cover with grated 
bread crumbs ; melt 1 large tablespoonful butter in the blazer, 
put in the sweetbreads ; cover and cook slowly 30 minutes, turn- 



MEAT. 35 

ing them carefully once during that time ; when ready to serve, 
lay 2 pieces of buttered toast on to a plate, dress the sweetbreads 
over them, and garnish with water cress. 

Sweetbreads with Pea Sauce. — Prepare and cook the 
sweetbreads the same as in foregoing recipe ; when done place 
the sweetbreads on to a plate, set it over the hot-water pan, cover 
and set aside. Pour 1 can of French peas into a sieve, rinse off 
with cold water, put the peas into the blazer, add 1% teaspoonful 
sugar and Yg cupful water ; cook 6 minutes, then mix 72 teaspoon- 
ful cornstarch or flour with % tablespoonful butter, add it to the 
peas, add Ya teaspoonful salt and a little white pepper ; cook 3 
minutes, add last Vg gill of cream and 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped 
parsley, pour the pea sauce around the sweetbreads, and serve 
with potato balls. 

Sweetbreads a la B^arnaise. — Prepare first a sauce 
Bearnaise. Then lard the upper part of 2 large blanched and 
prepared sweetbreads with fine strips of larding pork ; place the 
blazer with 1 tablespoonful fine-cut larding pork over the lamp, 
cook until it begins to turn a straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, season the sweetbreads with 1 even teaspoonful salt, put them 
in the blazer, cover, and turn often till they have obtained a light- 
brown color all over ; then add 1 gill of white broth or water, add 
1 small onion, 2 slices of carrot, and a small bo:iquet, cover and 
cook till the sweetbreads are done, basting them often ; if neces- 
sary, add a little more broth or water ; when done pour the Bear 
naise sauce on to a dish, and dress the sweetbreads over it. (See 
Sauce.) 

Sweetbreads k la Fonchonette. — Separate 2 large pair 
of blanched sweetbreads into small pieces, put them in the blazer, 
add 12 small button mushrooms cut into quarters, Va tablespoon- 
ful butter, 1 even teaspoonful salt, a little white pepper, a small 



36 MEAT. 

pinch of Cayenne pepper and 1 gill of Kbine wine ; cover and 
cook 10 minutes ; mix the yolks of 4 eggs with lYg gill of cream, 
add it to the sweetbreads, stir carefully until nearly boiling, turn 
out the lamp, and serve with finger rolls or crescents of puff 
paste ; it may also be served in patty cases. In place of wine 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice may be taken. 

Sweetbreads a I'AUemande. — Blanch, prepare, and 
cook a pair of large sweetbreads the same as sweetbreads a la 
maitre d'hotel, omitting the maitre d'hotel butter ; place the 
cooked sweetbreads on a plate and keep them warm ; melt Va 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add Va tablespoonful flour, stir 
and cook 2 minutes ; add 1 cupful chicken or veal broth, Yg even 
teaspoonful salt, and a small bouquet ; cook 5 minutes ; mix the 
yolk of 1 egg with 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, add it to the sauce, 
add, if handy, 1 tablespoonful cream, pour the sauce around the 
sweetbreads, and serve with croutons or bread and butter. 

Sweetbreads a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Blanch and pre- 
pare a pair of large sweetbreads as directed ; season them with 1 
even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful white pepper ; melt 1 large 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, add the sweetbreads, cover and 
cook slowly about 25 minutes ; place 2 pieces of fried bread or 
buttered toast on a warm dish, dress the sweetbreads over them, 
and spread 1 teaspoonful maitre d'hotel butter over each one and 
serve. In place of fried bread or toast, bread and butter may be 
served with it. 

Calf*s Brain — How to blanch. — Soak a set of calf's 
brains for 2 hours in cold M-ater, changing the water several 
times ; then remove the loose skin ; place the brains in the water 
pan, cover with cold water, add 1 tablespoonful white vinegar, Ya 
teaspoonful salt, 4 whole peppers, 2 slices of onion, % bay leaf, 
and a sprig of parsley ; place the pan over the lamp and boil 10 



MEAT. 37 

minutes, set the pan aside, letting- the brains cool in the water ; 
then remove and trim them neatly. 

Calf's Brain with Grreen Peas. — Dry the blanched 
brains on a napkin, dust tliem with a little ilour, then dip them 
into .beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs ; put 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter in the blazer, when melted put in the brains, cook 
till light brown on one side, then turn and cook the same on the 
other side ; put them on a hot plate and garnish with green peas. 
(See Vegetables.) 

Calf's Brain with Black Butter is prepared the same 

as shad roe with black butter. 

Calf's Brain a I'AUemande. — Melt 1 large tablespoon- 
ful butter in the blazer, put in 1 pair of blanched and prepared 
calf's brain, season with a little salt and pepper, add 1 gill of 
Rhine or white wine, cover, and cook 5 minutes on each side ; 
remove the brains carefully, lay them on 2 pieces of toast or 
croutons, cover, and keep warm till the following sauce is made : 
Melt Va tablespoonful butter, add Va tablespoonful flour, stir, and 
cook 2 minutes ; add % cup of white broth or water with a little 
beef extract, 2 tablespoonfuls mushroom liquor, 4 whole peppers, 
Va bay leaf, cook 5 minutes ; remove peppers and bay leaf, add 2 
tablespoonfuls cream ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with % tablespoon- 
ful lemon juice, add it to the sauce, and pour over the brains. 
The brains may be cut into slices, then cooked and finished the 
same way. 

Calf's Brain ^ 1' Alfonso. — Blanch and prepare 2 sets 
of calf's brain as directed in former recipe ; place the blazer with 
2 ounces larding pork and the same of raw ham, both cut into 
thin slices, over the lamp, put the brains on top of this, add 1 
gill of white wine or the juice of Vg lemon ; cover with veal or 



38 MEAT. 

chicken broth, lay 2 ounces fine-cut larding pork over them, 
put on the cover and cook slowly 15 minutes ; then drain the 
brains on a sieve and cut them into slices ; melt 1 ounce butter in 
the blazer, add the brains, toss them for a few minutes ; arrange 
nicely over 6 slices of buttered toast, pour over 1 pint of hot 
tomato sauce a I'allemande, and serve. Sweetbreads may be pre- 
pared the same way. 

Calf's Liver Saute. — Cut V/z pound calf's liver into 
small pieces, season them with 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful 
pepper, mix seasoning and liver well together ; place the blazer 
with 1 tablespoonful butter, a small piece of bruised garlic, 2 
tablespoonfuls fine-chopped onion over the lamp, cover, and cook 
3 minutes ; add 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped mushrooms, cook 3 
minutes ; then add the liver, stir well for 2 minutes, cover, and 
cook 6 minutes ; sprinkle over % tablespoonful flour, add % cup 
of red wine, V2 cup of boiling water, V2 teaspoonful beef extract, 
stir, and cook a few minutes ; extinguish the lamp, and serve 
with bread and butter. 

Liver Stew, also called Hash. — Take 1 pound of lamb 
or calf's liver, cut it into small pieces, season with 1 even tea- 
spoonful salt and Vi teaspoonful pepper ; place the blazer over 
the lamp with % tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, cook 5 minutes without browning the onions ; 
then add the liver, cover, and cook 5 minutes ; dust over % table- 
spoonful flour, mix all well together, add % cupful water, con- 
tinue to cook 3 minutes, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, turn 
down the lamp, and serve with bread and butter or French fried 
potatoes. 

Calf's Liver, Fried. — Season 4 thin slices of calf's liver 
with 1 even teaspoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper, roll in 
flour ; melt % tablespoonful butter and the same of lard or fat in 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 39 

the blazer, put in tlie liver, fry 4 minutes on each side, turning 
several times while frying ; arrange on a warm plate, and serve 
with bread and butter or, if handy, buttered toast. 

Fried Liver and Bacon. — Place the chafing-dish pan 
with Ya pint water over the lamp, cover, and let it come to a boil, 
put in 4 slices of bacon, instantly remove the pan, let the bacon 
remain 3 minutes, then take out the bacon, place it in the blazer, 
and fry over the lamp 3 minutes on each side ; lay the bacon on 
a warm dish ; have 4 slices of lamb's or calf's liver, seasoned with 
1 even teaspoonful salt and a little pepper ; roll the liver in flour, 
put the slices in the bacon fat, and fry light brown on both 
sides ; arrange the liver and bacon on a warm plate and serve. 

Calf s Liver, Broiled, — Procure 4 slices of calf's liver, 
brush them over on each side with melted butter, place the blazer 
over the lamp, when very hot put in the liver and broil 4 min. 
utes on each side ; lay the liver on a plate ; mix Vj tablespoonf ul 
butter with Vg teaspoonful salt, Yg teaspoonful pepper ; spread 
this over each side of the liver, and serve with French fried 
potatoes and bread and butter. 

Calfs Liver k la Maitre d'Hotel.— Broil the liver the 
same as in the foregoing recipe, spread 1 tablespoonful maitre 
d'hotel butter over, and serve. 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

Chicken with Rice. — Place the lower chafing-dish pan 
over the lamp, half full of water, cut a well-cleaned spring 
chicken into 8 pieces, when the water boils put in the chicken, 
add 1 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, % carrot, a bouquet. 



40 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

and 1 onion, and cook 20 minutes ; then add Va cupful well- 
washed raw rice, cook till done, remove onion, carrot, and bou- 
quet, and serve. 

Potted Spring Chicken. — Truss nicely a well-cleaned 
spring chicken weighing about V/^ pound, season with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt; fry 2 ounces fine-cut larding pork straw-color 
in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful butter and the chicken, cover 
and cook till the chicken has obtained a nice brown color, 
turning it frequently ; then add % cupful hot water, cover and 
cook till tender, which will take from 25 to 30 minutes ; if the 
water boils away too much, add more ; when done, lay the 
chicken on to a dish, remove the fat from the gravy, mix 1 
teaspoonful cornstarch with /o cup cold water, add it to the 
gravy, stir, and cook a few minutes, add sufficient water to make 
a half pint of sauce, cook for a few minutes, strain, and serve 
with the chicken. 

Chicken Broth. — Dip a pair of chicken feet into boil- 
ing water, scrape off the skin, remove the nails, wash and place 
them with the giblets and neck of a chicken in the chafing-dish 
pan, add V/^ pint cold water, % teaspoonful salt, and a small 
onion ; cook 40 minutes, remove and strain the broth into a bowl, 
and use when wanted ; it will keep in the ice box for several 
days. 

Cold Chicken a la Cream. — Cut the meat of cold 
roasted or boiled chicken into small pieces, melt 1 ounce butter 
in the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir, and cook 3 minutes, 
add Va pint of chicken broth or boiling water with a little beef 
extract, 1 even teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, and % 
cupful milk, cook 2 minutes, then add 3 cupfuls of the chicken 
meat and % cupful cream, cook 5 minutes, add last 1 tablespoon- 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 41 

f ul lemon juice ; serve over buttered toast ; if cream is not handy, 
add milk. 

Chicken Saut6 h la Financl^re.— Cut a well-cleaned 
spring chicken into 6 pieces, season with 1 teaspoonful salt and 
Va teaspoonful pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter, put in the 
chicken, cook 5 minutes, add 3 tablespoonfuls Madeira wine, 
cover, and cook 10 minutes ; dust over Yg tablespoonful flour, 
stir 2 minutes, add Vg cupful fine-cut mushrooms, % cupful fine- 
chopped boiled beef tongue, Va gill of mushroom liquor, % cupful 
chicken broth or water with a little beef extract ; cover and cook 
15 minutes ; mix the yolk of 1 egg with % tablespoonful lemon 
juice, add it to the chicken, turn down the lamp, and serve. 

Chicken Saut6 k I'ltallenne. — Cut a well-cleaned spring 
chicken of 1% pound in weight into 6 pieces, season with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, Vi teaspoonful pepper ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter 
in the blazer, put in the chicken, cook 10 minutes, turning the 
pieces frequently with a fork, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful flour, 
stir 1 minute, add 1 cupful chicken broth, % cupful canned 
tomatoes or 2 fine-cut raw tomatoes, cook 10 minutes ; add 1 
cupful fine-cut boiled spaghetti, cover, and cook 5 minutes, then 
serve ; if handy, sprinkle when ready to serve 2 tablespoonfuls 
grated cheese over the chicken ; if chicken broth is not handy, 
take water and a little beef extract. 

Chicken Fricassee with Dumplings. — Cut a well- 
cleaned young chicken of 3 or 4 pounds into 8 or 10 pieces ; 
have 2 chafing dishes ; put half a chicken into each dish, 
add 1 even teaspoonful salt and Vg even teaspoonful pepper, 1 
medium-sized onion, to each chafing dish ; cover the chicken 
with boiling water, place the pan over the lamp, and cook 
till tender ; then mix % tablespoonful flour with % tablespoonful 
butter and add it to the fricassee ; then put 1 cup of flour into a 



42 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

bowl, add 1 teaspoonful baking powder, V2 teaspoonful butter, 
and a pinch of salt ; rub butter and flour together, mix 1 egg 
with 4 tablespoonfuls of milk or water, add it to the flour ; mix 
all into a thick batter, then cut with a teaspoon small portions 
from the batter and drop them into the fricassee ; cover and cook 
6 minutes, no longer; then turn out the lamp and place tlie 
fricassee over the hot-water pan. In serving, put the fricassee 
on to a dish and lay the dumplings in a circle around it ; sprinkle 
over the whole 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped parsley. 

Chicken Saut6 h I'Hongroise. — Cut a well-cleaned 
young chicken of 272 pounds into 8 pieces ; put 1 tablespoonf ul 
butter and 1 tablespoonf ul fine-chopped onion in the blazer over 
the lamp ; cook 5 minutes without browning ; season the 
chicken with 1 even tablespoonful salt and 1 even teaspoonful 
pepper ; mix seasoning and chicken well together, add the chicken 
to the onion in blazer ; cover and cook 25 minutes, turning it 
often with a fork ; then sprinkle over 1 tablespoonful flour, stir 
2 minutes, add 1 pint of boiling water ; cover and cook till done. 
Shortly before serving lay the chicken on a hot dish, remove all 
fat from the gravy, add Va cupful cream ; cook 3 minutes ; add 
Ya tablespoonful lemon juice, and strain the gravy over the 
chicken ; sprinkle 1 fine-chopped hard-boiled egg over the whole, 
and lay 3-cornered pieces of buttered toast or fried bread around 
the edge of the dish and serve. 

Chicken Saut6. — Cut 1 well-cleaned spring chicken into 
4 pieces, season with 1 teaspoonful salt and ^^ teaspoonful pepper ; 
melt 1 tablespoonful butter in a chafing dish, add % tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped onion, put in the chicken ; cover and cook 
till done ; mix the yolk of 1 eg^g with % gill of cream, add it 
to the chicken ; add last Vg tablespoonful lemon juice and 
serve. 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 43 

Chicken Cnrry. — If a whole chicken is to be cooked in 

the chaling dish, it is best to have two chafing dishes, or the half 
of the chicken may be cooked at one time. Cut a well-cleaned 
young chicken of SVg pounds into 10 pieces ; place half of the 
chicken into the water pan, cover with boiling water, add 1 
onion, 1 teaspoonful salt, ^/^ teaspoonful pepper ; cover and cook 
till the chicken is tender ; if the water boils away, add more ; 
then melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir, 
and cook a few minutes ; add 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stir, 
and cook till smooth ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, add it to the sauce, then instantly remove, 
not letting it boil after the yolks have been added. Arrange the 
chicken on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and lay a border of 
rice around it. 

Silan Curry. — Put 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped onion 
with 1 tablespoonful butter in a chafing dish ; cook 5 minutes ; 
add 1 teaspoonful curry powder and 1 tablespoonful flour ; stir 
and cook 3 minutes ; add lyj cupful boiling water and Vi tea- 
spoonful beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt ; cook 6 minutes ; add 1 
pint of fine-cut cold cooked chicken, turkey, veal, or fish meat, 1 
cupful fresh-grated cocoanut, Yj cupful cream ; cook 10 minutes, 
then serve. 

Chicken 14 vers with Croutons.— Cut 4 chicken livers 
into pieces, season with ^/^ teaspoonful salt and pepper ; place the 
blazer over the lamp, with Vj tablespoonful butter, add Vg tea- 
spoonful grated onion, put in the liver pieces, cook 3 minutes, 
dust over Va teaspoonful flour, stir 1 minute, add 1 gill of water 
and a little beef extract ; mix the yolk of 1 Q.g^ with Yg table- 
spoonful lemon juice, add it to the livers, remove and set aside 
for a few minutes. Put the lower pan over the lamp, add V2 
tablespoonful butter, when hot put in 4 small round pieces of 



44 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

bread, fry light brown on both sides, then lay them on the hot 
plate, and divide the liver over them. 

Chicken Livers en Bouch^es. — Have ready 4 patty 
cases of puff paste, place the chafing-dish pan half full of water 
over the lamp, when it begins to boil remove the pan and the 
cover; next cover the water pan with a plate, on which place 
the patty cases, cover them, and set aside. Heat 1 tablespoonful 
butter in the blazer, add 1 teaspoonful grated onion, cook 2 min. 
utes, cut 3 chicken livers into slices, season with Yi teaspoonful salt 
and pepper, put them into the blazer, cover, and cook 5 minutes ; 
dust over 72 teaspoonful flour, mix, then add 1 tablespoonful 
Madeira or sherry wine, Va gill of boiling water, a little beef 
extract ; cook 3 minutes, mix the yolk of 1 egg with 4 tablespoon- 
fuls cream, add it to the livers, stir for a few minutes without boil- 
ing, then fill the preparation into the patty cases, and serve. If 
double the quantity is wanted, take 4 large livers or 6 small ones. 

Chicken Livers k I'Espagnole. — Procure % pint of 
chicken livers, carefully remove the gall, and cut the liver into 
slices, wash in cold water, drain, and season them with 1 even 
teaspoonful salt and % even teaspoonful pepper. Place the blazer 
with Va tablespoonful butter over the lamp, add the livers ; stir 
and cook 5 minutes, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, cook 
3 minutes, put the livers into a bowl, and set aside ; return the 
blazer with % tablespoonful butter to the lamp, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped onion, the same of fine-cut raw ham, celery, and 
carrots ; stir and cook 5 minutes, add Vj tablespoonful flour, stir 
2 minutes ; season with y^ teaspoonful salt, 4 whole peppers ; add 
% bay leaf, % pi^t water, Vj teaspoonful beef extract ; boil 6 
minutes, then strain the sauce, return it to the blazer, remove 
the stones from 12 olives, press the olives back into their natural 
form, add them to the sauce, cook 5 minutes, add the livers 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 45 

and Va tablespoonful lemon juice, cook 3 minutes, counting 
from the time they begin to cook ; in place of chicken livers, 1 
pound of calf's or lamb's liver may be used. Serve with croutons 
or in patty cases of puff paste. 

Chicken Livers a la Zulano. — Prepare the livers the 
same as in foregoing recipe, add to the livers while frying Yj cup- 
ful fine-sliced mushrooms, and to the sauce Vg gill of mushroom 
liquor, then finish the same as above. 

Creamed Chicken. — Cut a well-cleaned young chicken 
into 8 pieces, take the breast, second joint, and legs, season with 
1 heaping teaspoonf ul salt, Vg teaspoonf ul pepper ; put 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add the chicken, sprinkle over 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, place it over the lamp, cover and cook 
10 minutes, stirring it once during that time ; then add 1 cupful 
boiling water and a small onion, cook slowly till done. If the 
broth should boil away, add a little more water. Shortly before 
serving, lay the chicken on a hot dish, remove all fat from the 
broth ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Vg cup cream or milk and 
add it to the chicken broth, stir a few minutes, pour the sauce 
over the chicken, and serve with buttered toast or croutons. 

The back, giblets, the well-cleaned feet, and neck may be used 
for soup or chicken broth. 

Chicken with Oysters. —Place the blazer with Vg pint 
of oysters over the lamp, let it come to a boil, then instantly 
remove the oysters from their liquor with a skimmer and set 
aside ; pour the oyster liquor into another dish, return the blazer 
to the lamp with Vg tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine- 
chopped onion, Vg bay leaf, 6 whole peppers, Vg even teaspoonf ul 
salt, cook 5 minutes without browning ; add % tablespoonful 
flour, stir, and cook 2 minutes ; add Vg pint of chicken broth or 
boiling water with Va teaspoonful beef extract, cook 5 minutes ; 



46 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

remove the bay leaf and peppers, add 1% cupful fine-cut cooked 
chicken meat, cook a few minutes, mix the yolk of 1 egg with y^ 
cupful cream, add it to the chicken, then add the oysters and Yg 
tablespoonful lemon juice; serve with 4 pieces of buttered 
toast. 

Rissotto of Cold Chicken. — Place the chafing-dish pan 
half full of water over the lamp, when it boils add % cupful 
washed rice, cook 5 minutes, then drain the rice in a sieve and 
rinse it off with fresh water ; melt 1 ounce butter in the blazer, 
add % gill of fine-chopped onion, cook 3 minutes without brown- 
ing ; add the rice, stir, and cook a few minutes, add % pint of 
chicken or veal broth, Yg teasjjoonful salt, ^i teaspoonf ul pepper, 
and % cupful canned tomatoes or 1 large raw tomato cut fine ; 
cover and cook slowly till the rice is done, add % pint fine-cut 
cooked chicken-meat, cook a few minutes, turn the rissotto on a 
hot dish, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese ; mix it 
with 2 forks and serve. 

Quails a la Marazina. — Clean and split 2 nice young 
quail down the back in half, season them with % teaspoonful salt 
and pepper ; place 1 tablespoonful butter in a chafing dish, add 
1 teaspoonful grated onion, cook 2 minutes ; put in the quails, 
cover, and cook 15 minutes, then uncover the dish, and, if the 
butter is getting too brown, add a little water ; again cover and 
cook 20 minutes ; have a plate on the hot-water pan, put the 
birds on it, add ^2 teaspoonful flour to gravy in pan, stir 1 minute, 
add a little water and the yolk of 1 egg, mixed with Vg gill of 
cream, stir and cook 1 minute, then add 1 teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, mix, and strain over the birds ; 4 pieces of bread cut into 
rounds with a cutter and fried in butter may be placed under the 
birds. 

All kinds of birds may be cooked the same way. 



CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 4Y 

Squab. — Season 3 well-cleaned squabs with 1 teaspoonful 
salt equally divided over the birds, tie each one with a string and 
bend the wings backward ; fry 2 tablespoonfuls fine-cut larding 
pork in the blazer till straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful butter, put 
in the birds, cook, turning them often, till they have obtained a 
nice brown color all over, then add Ya cupful boiling water, cover, 
and cook till done ; if the water boils away, add a little more ; 
when done, lay the birds on a hot dish with a piece of toast or 
fried bread underneath each bird ; remove all fat from the gravy, 
mix 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, 
add it to the gravy, stir, and cook a few minutes, then add suf- 
ficient boiling water or white broth to make a creamy sauce ; 
cook a few minutes longer, then strain ; pour the sauce over the 
birds and serve. All kinds of birds may be cooked the same 
way. The birds may be served over toast or steamed shredded 
wheat. 

G-rouse en Spaghetti. — Place 1 tablespoonful fine-cut 
larding pork in a chafing dish and fry straw-color, add 1 table- 
spoonful butter ; truss nicely two well-cleaned grouse, season each 
with Ya teaspoonful salt, put them in the pan breast downward, 
cover, and cook from 10 to 15 minutes, turning them once; 
when they are light brown add % gill of hot water, cover, and 
cook till done ; shortly before they are done add the liver of the 
birds and cook 5 minutes, then take them out and rub fine; 
when the birds are done lay them on a hot plate and cover them, 
add 1 teaspoonful cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water to 
the gravy, stir 2 minutes, add 1% gill of water, stir, and cook a 
few minutes, add the liver, then remove and set aside. In the 
meantime mix % cupful boiled spaghetti with the yolk of 1 egg, 
Va tablespoonful flour, a little milk, salt, and, last, the beaten 
white ; put the blazer with % tablespoonful butter over the lamp, 
put a small portion of the spaghetti in the pan, the size of a small 



48 CHICKEN, BIRDS, AND GAME. 

saucer, fry light brown, put one of the spaghetti cakes under each 
grouse, pour over the sauce, and serve. 

Potted Rabbit. — Cut a well-cleaned rabbit into 6 pieces, 
season with 1 tablespoonful salt and Vz teaspoonful pepper ; fry 2 
ounces fine-cut larding pork in the blazer till it begins to turn 
straw-color, add 1 tablespoonful butter, put in the rabbit, turn 
often with a fork and cook till the rabbit has obtained a light- 
brown color ; add Va cupful water, cover and cook till done ; if 
the water boils away, add a little more ; when done, lay the rab- 
bit on a warm dish, mix Yg teaspoonful cornstarch with 2 table- 
spoonfuls cold water, add it to the sauce, stir, and cook 2 minutes, 
add sufficient water to make Va pint of sauce ; if handy, add 2 
tablespoonfuls sour cream, cook 3 minutes, counting from the 
time it begins to boil, strain the sauce over the rabbit, and serve. 
Another way is to add 2 tablespoonfuls currant jelly to the 
sauce in place of cream, or prepare the sauce without either. 

Venison Steak, Broiled. — Procure 3 small venison 
steaks, brush them over with melted butter ; place the blazer 
over the lamp, when very hot put in the steak, fry 4 minutes on 
each side ; in the meantime stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a 
cream, add 1 even teaspoonful salt, Vg even teaspoonful pepper ; 
spread this over both sides of the steaks and serve. 

Venison Steak a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Procure 3 

small venison steaks, each weighing about Vg pound ; season with 
Va teaspoonful salt, y4 teaspoonful pepper ; brush them over with 
melted butter ; have the blazer hot, put in the steaks, cook 4 
minutes on each side ; dress them on a hot dish ; spread over 1 
tablespoonful maitre d'hotel, butter, and serve ; garnish with 
water cress and French fried potatoes. 

Venison Steak with Cnrrant-Jelly Sauce. — Prepare 
and broil 6 small venison steaks, the same as in foregoing recipe ; 



VEGETABLES. 49 

next prepare the following sauce : Melt Vs tablespoonf ul butter, 
add Va tablespoonful chopped onion, the same of grated carrot, 
and fine-chopped ham ; Ya bay leaf, 6 whole peppers ; cook 5 
minutes without browning ; add 1 teaspoonful flour, stir, and cook 
2 minutes, add % cupful water, Yg teaspoonful beef extract, cook 
5 minutes ; add 1 gill port wine, 1 glass currant jelly, stir, and 
cook till the jelly is dissolved ; strain the sauce on to a dish, and 
dress the steak over it ; garnish with bread croutons or potato 
croquettes. 

For further instructions how to cook venison, see my book, 
The European and American Cuisine. 

Bouquet. — Tie together into a small bundle 1 sprig of 
parsley, yi bay leaf, 1 clove, and % sprig of thyme, and use as 
directed. 

Croutons. — Cut several slices Vg inch thick from a two-days'- 
old baker's loaf of bread. Cut the slices with a cutter into 
round, heart, or oval shapes, brush them over with melted but- 
ter, and bake them on tins in a hot oven to a fine golden color, or 
fry them in butter light brown. 



VEGETABLES. 

Potato Balls. — Peel and wash 6 large potatoes, cut them 
into round balls with a vegetable cutter, place them in the blazer 
over the lamp, cover with cold water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, and 
cook till nearly done ; then drain off the water, return the blazer 
for a few minutes to the lamp, add % tablespoonful butter, toss 
them for a few minutes, sprinkle over a little fine-chopped parsley, 
and serve. 



50 VEGETABLES. 

French Fried Potatoes. — Peel 4 medium-sized pota- 
toes, cut them into quarters, and if large into eighths ; lay them 
in cold water ; shortly before cooking, drain and dry the potatoes 
on a towel ; place the blazer with Yg pound lard over the lamp ; 
when hot, put in some of the potatoes (not too many at a time), 
and fry light brown ; remove them with a skimmer, lay them for 
a few minutes on blotting or brown paper to absorb the grease ; 
sprinkle over some salt and fry the remaining the same way. 

Hashed Potatoes. —Chop fine some cold boiled potatoes ; 
for 1 pint chopped potatoes melt Va tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer, put in the potatoes, season with % even teaspoonful salt 
and % even teaspoonful pepper ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; re- 
move the cover, stir them up, cover, and again let them cook a 
few minutes, then serve. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Peel 2 large potatoes, cut them 
into thin slices, and lay them in cold water ; peel and cut 1 small 
onion into thin slices ; place the blazer, with 1 teaspoonful lard 
and the same of butter, over the lamp ; drain and dry the pota- 
toes in a napkin ; put them into the blazer, season with % tea- 
spoonful salt and % teaspoonful pepper, cover, and cook 5 min- 
utes, then stir them ; sprinkle over the slices of onion, again 
cover, and cook 5 minutes ; then stir them, and cook till done ; 
turn the potatoes on to a hot dish, giving them the shape of an 
omelet ; sprinkle over a little fine-chopped parsley, and serve. 

Fried Tomatoes. — Cut some large fresh tomatoes into 
thick slices, season with a little salt and pepper, dip the slices 
separately first into flour, then into beaten egg, and last into 
grated bread crumbs or cracker crumbs ; melt Vj tablespoonful 
lard and the same of butter in the blazer, put in as many tomato 
slices as conveniently will go in the blazer ; fry light brown on 
both sides, and serve, 



VEGETABLES. 51 

Tomato Farci de Poulette.— Select 6 medium-sized to- 
matoes, cut a small piece from the blossom side, scoop out all the 
soft part, and season each tomato with a pinch of salt and pep- 
per ; place them in a cool place or on ice ; then prepare a fine 
mayonnaise, cut some boiled chicken into small pieces (about Va 
pint), cut also 2 hard-boiled eggs and Va cup of fine-cut white 
celery ; mix the whole with mayonnaise, turn the tomatoes up- 
side down, let all the moisture run out, then fill them with the 
chicken mixture ; set the tomatoes on to small plates, pour a little 
mayonnaise around each tomato, and lay a border of shredded 
lettuce leaves around each tomato, then serve. 

Tomatoes with Mushrooms. — Clean 4 medium-sized 
mushrooms and lay them in cold water with 1 tablespoonful 
lemon juice; scald 2 large tomatoes in boiling water and re- 
move the skin ; place the blazer with 1 tablespoonful butter and 
1 teaspoonful grated onion over the lamp, cook 2 minutes ; dry 
the mushrooms in a napkin, cut them fine ; place them in the 
blazer, add the tomatoes, sprinkle over 1 even teaspoonful salt 
and pepper mixed, cover, and cook 10 minutes ; dress the toma- 
toes on a hot dish, lay the mushrooms around it, and garnish 
with water cress. 

Asparagus. — Peel 1 bunch of asparagus, wash and tie it 
up in 4 or 5 small bundles, cut it in even lengths ; have the pan 
with boiling water over the lamp, put in the asparagus ; cover 
and cook 30 minutes, or till done ; then add Vg tablespoonful salt, 
continue to cook 5 minutes ; when ready to serve, take the as- 
paragus out of the water, remove the strings, lay it on a hot 
plate, and pour over some melted butter. 

Asparagus with Vinaigrette Sauce. — Boil the as- 
paragus the same way as above, and when cold serve with vinai- 
grette sauce. 



52 VEGETABLES. 

Green Peas. — Open a can of green peas, drain off tb« 
water, and rinse them with cold water ; place the peas in the 
blazer, add Ya cupful boiling water and 2 teaspoonfuls sugar ; 
cover and cook 10 minutes, then mix Va tablespoonful butter 
with Va teaspoonful cornstarch, stir it into the peas, add Yj even 
teaspoonful salt ; cook a few minutes ; add, if handy, 1 table- 
spoonful cream or 1 teaspoonful unsweetened condensed milk, 
add, last, 1 tablespoonful fine-ehopped parsley. Fresh green peas 
are cooked the same way, only boil them 20 minutes, instead of 
10 minutes. 

Creamed Corn. — Open a can of sweet corn and pour the 
contents in the blazer, place it over the lamp, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful sugar, a little white pepper, and 1 cup of milk ; cook 5 min- 
utes ; mix Ya tablespoonful butter with Y2 teaspoonful flour, stir it 
into the corn, add Vi teaspoonful salt, cook 3 minutes, and serve. 

Mushroom Bouch^es. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in 
the blazer, add 1 tablespoonful flour ; stir and cook 2 minutes ; 
add 1 cupful mushroom liquor, 1 cupful white broth, 1 teaspoon- 
ful beef extract, 1 teaspoonful salt, Y4 teaspoonful pepper ; cook 
2 minutes, then add 1 can of button mushrooms ; cook 15 min- 
utes ; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with Y2 cupful cream, add it to the 
mushroom, turn out the lamp, add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
and fill them into 12 hot patty cases and serve. 

Mushrooms, Broiled.— Cut off a portion from the stalk 
of 1 dozen large mushrooms, peel the top, and rub them with a 
little salt ; drop as soon as cleaned into cold water with the juice 
of 1 lemon ; 15 minutes before serving take the mushrooms out, 
wipe them dry, season with Y2 teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, 
brush them over with melted butter, heat the blazer over the 
lamp, put in the mushrooms, not too many at once, cook 5 min- 
utes on each side, dress them over 6 small slices of buttered toast, 



VEGETABLES. 53 

spread % tablespoonf ul maitre d'hotel butter over the mushrooms, 
and serve. 

Mushroom Saute. — Cut off the ends of the stalk from 1 
pint of fresh button mushrooms, rub the top off with salt, drop 
them into cold salted water with the juice of 1 lemon ; melt V/i 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, remove the mushrooms from 
the water, add them to the blazer, season with % teaspoonful 
white pepper, 1 teaspoonful salt, and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
cover and cook 20 minutes ; sprinkle over % tablespoonful flour, 
add % teaspoonful nutmeg and Ya cupful cream or milk, stir and 
cook 3 minutes, then serve with toast or bread and butter. 
Another way is to remove the crumbs from 6 small French rolls, 
brush them over with melted butter, and bake them light brown 
in a hot oven, then fill them with the mushrooms ; in place of 
mushrooms the rolls may be filled with creamed oysters or 
lobster. 

Spaghetti a I'ltalienne. — Place the chafing-dish pan 
half full of water over the lamp, cover, and when it boils put in 
4 ounces Italian spaghetti broken into pieces, add 1 teaspoonful 
salt ; boil till done, about 35 minutes, then drain and set in a 
warm place. Fry 1 fine-chopped onion in 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, % fine-chopped green pepper without the seeds, a small piece 
of bruised garlic, Va cupful dried mushrooms previously soaked 
in cold water, or fresh, and if not canned mushrooms may be taken ; 
cook 5 minutes ; then add Vg can tomatoes, % teaspoonful salt, ^4 
teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar ; cook 10 minutes ; put 
a layer of the spaghetti into a dish, pour over some of the tomato 
preparation, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese ; con- 
tinue in alternate layers until all is in the dish, put over the top 
a layer of grated cheese, and, if an oven is handy, bake it 10 
minutes. If the cheese is not liked it may be omitted. 



54 EGGS AKD OMELETS. 

Seasoning Salt. — Mix 4 tablespoonfuls salt with 1 table- 
spoonful pepper. 

Boiled Rice. — Place Vj cup well- washed rice in the blazer, 
cover with plenty of boiling water, add 74 teaspoonful salt, set the 
blazer over the lamp, and cook about 20 minutes, till the rice is 
tender, but not broken ; do not stir while boiling ; then pour the 
rice in a sieve, rinse off with cold water, return the rice to the 
blazer, place it over the water pan, put Vg tablespoonful butter in 
the center of the rice ; cover and cook slowly for 10 minutes, 
then serve. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Scrambled Eggs with Boiled Ham.— Chop fine 4 
ounces of cold boiled ham, break 4 eggs into a bowl, beat with 
an egg beater until very light, add a little white pepper and 4 
tablespoonfuls cold water ; continue the beating 2 minutes ; melt 
1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer over the lamp, put in the 
eggs, stir until they begin to thicken, add the ham, stir and mix 
well together, and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs and Bacon.— Cut IVa ounce bacon 
into pieces Va finger long and V4 inch thick ; place the blazer with 
the bacon over the lamp, fry light brown ; beat up 6 eggs, season 
with 74 teaspoonful salt, add them to the bacon ; as soon as they 
begin to set, draw the eggs with a spoon from the side to the cen- 
ter ; when firm, but still soft, put them onto a warm dish, and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs a I'Americaine. — Break 6 eggs in a 
bowl, add Va teaspoonful salt, Vg teaspoonful white pepper, beat 1 
minute ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter in the blazer, pour in the 
eggs, stir until thick, then serve. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 55 

Scrambled Eggs with Bread Crumbs. — Beat 4 eggs 
until light, add 4 tablespoonfuls cold water ; continue the beating 
with an egg beater 2 minutes ; add % teaspoonful salt ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, pour in the eggs, sprinkle over 
^2 cupful grated bread crumbs when they begin to set, draw .them 
with a spoon from the edge of the pan to the center until they 
become thick, then serve. 

Another way is to add, just before serving, 3 or 4 tablespoon- 
fuls grated cheese. 

Scrambled Eggs with Fine Herbs. — Place the blazer 
with 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 
onion over the lamp ; cook three minutes, then add Yg cupful 
fine-sliced mushrooms ; cover and cook 5 minutes ; season with 
Ya teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley ; beat 6 eggs in a bowl until very light, then pour it into 
the blazer ; as soon as the eggs begin to set, draw them with a 
spoon from the side of the blazer to the center until they are 
thick, then serve. 

Ham and Eggs.— Procure Yg pound boiled ham, cut into 
tliin slices, melt Vg tablespoonful butter in the blazer, put in the 
ham, cook 2 minutes on each side ; remove, lay the ham on a 
hot plate ; break separately 2 eggs over the blazer, and drop one 
at a time into the hot fat ; cook until the white is firm and the 
yolk soft ; carefully remove and place them on the ham ; con- 
tinue until the desired quantity of eggs have been cooked, then 
serve. 

If a slice of raw ham is taken, in place of cooked ham, heat 

the blazer, put in a little butter, cut the slice of ham into 2 or 3 

pieces, put in the ham, cook a few minutes on each side, and 

finish the same as above. 

In case the ham is too salt, place it in the blazer, cover with 
5 



56 KGGS AND OMELETS. 

cold water, let it come to a boil, then remove the ham, lay it for 
a few minutes on a napkin, and cook the same way. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes. — Melt Va tablespoon- 
ful butter, add 1 teaspoonf ul grated onion ; cook 2 minutes ; then 
add I cupful canned tomatoes, the thickest part ; season with Vi 
teaspoonful salt, Vg teaspoonful pepper, y^ teaspoonful sugar ; 
cover and cook about 8 minutes ; then add 4 well-beaten eggs, 
stir until thick ; remove and serve either on toast, fried bread, or 
serve bread and butter with it. 

Boiled Eggs with Tomato Pepper Sauce. — Boil 
from 6 to 8 eggs 5 minutes, remove and lay them in cold water ; 
at the same time when the eggs are boiling, place the blazer over 
the water pan with Vg tablespoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful grated 
onion, 1 tablespoonful finely shredded green pepper ; cook 3 
minutes ; add 2 peeled and fine-cut tomatoes or y4 cupful canned 
tomatoes, Yi even teaspoonful salt, the same of sugar ; remove the 
water pan with the eggs and place the blazer over the lamp ; 
cover and cook 6 minutes ; in the meantime remove the shell 
from the boiled eggs, lay them on individual dishes, pour over 
the sauce, and serve. 

Poached Eggs, — Place the pan half full of water over 
the lamp, add Va tablespoonful vinegar (no more) and Yj teaspoon- 
ful salt ; cover and let it come to a boil ; then crack an egg, hold 
it close over the boiling water, and let it drop ; treat the remain- 
ing eggs the same way, lower the flame, so the water will stop 
boiling ; as soon as the white is firm, remove the eggs care- 
fully with a skimmer, cut them into round shape with a cake 
cutter, then slip them on to a hot jilate. 

Care must be taken not to add too much vinegar, or it will 
spoil the flavor. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 57 

Poached Eggs with Tomato Pepper Sauce. — Poach 

4 eggs and lay them on 2 pieces of fried bread ; melt % table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add 1 teaspoonful grated onion, 1 
tablespoonful fine-cut green peppers ; stir and cook 5 minutes 
without browning ; then add 2 peeled and tine-cut tomatoes or 
Vi cupful canned tomatoes, V4 even teaspoonful salt, the same of 
sugar ; cover and cook 8 minutes ; pour the sauce around the 
eggs and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs with Smolted Beef. — Place 4 ounces 
of fine-sliced smoked beef in the blazer over the lamp, cover 
with cold water ; when boiling hot, remove, drain the beef, and 
chop it fine ; break 4 eggs into a bowl, beat with an egg 
beater until very light, add 4 tablespoonfuls cold water, beat 2 
minutes longer, and add a pinch of pepper, no salt ; melt 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the blazer, add the eggs, as they begin to set 
draw the egg mixture with a spoon from the edge of the blazer 
to the center until they begin to thicken, then add the beef, stir 
a minute longer, and serve. 

Eggs au Miroir.— Place the blazer over the hot-water pan 
with Va tablespoonful butter ; as soon as melted, break 2 eggs in a 
cup, put them into the melted butter ; cook till the white is firm 
and the yolks soft ; remove them carefully with a cake turner, 
being careful not to break the yolk, and serve. 

Eggs Fritee. — Break as many eggs as wanted into separate 
cups, place the blazer over the lamp with 1 tablespoonful lard or 
butter ; as soon as melted, put in 1 egg, incline it slightly so 
the butter is all around the egg, pour the hot butter with a tea- 
spoon over the egg, turn it for 1 minute on the other side, lift it 
up carefully with a cake turner, dress it on a hot plate ; proceed 
and fry the remaining the same way until the desired quantity is 
cooked, adding more lard or butter if necessary. 



58 EGGS AND OiMELETS. 

French Omelet. — Break 4 eggs into a bowl, season with 
Va teaspoonful salt, beat with an egg beater 4 minutes ; melt 1 
tablespoonful butter in the blazer, when hot pour in the eggs, 
draw with a fork from the edge of the blazer to the center ; 
when tlie omelet begins to get firm, let it remain Yz minute with- 
out stirring, then fold it over each side so that two sides meet in 
the center ; turn the omelet on to the hot dish, the folded side 
underneath, and serve. A tablespoonful fine-chopped parsley or 
fine-cut chives may be added to the eggs before they are cooked. 

German Omelet. — Separate the whites and yolks of 2 
eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the yolks with a pinch 
of salt and white pepper, add 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, pour 
the yolk mixture slowly while beating constantly into the beaten 
whites ; place the blazer over the lamp, when hot put in '4 table- 
spoonful butter, as soon as melted pour in the eggs, put on the 
cover, and cook 3 minutes, then remove the cover and shake the 
blazer to loosen the omelet ; if it sticks in some places to the pan, 
slip a broad-bladed knife underneath the omelet, lift it up on the 
side it sticks, and slip a small piece of butter underneath it ; as 
soon as the omelet is loose, cover it again, and cook it till yon 
can touch the top with your finger without any of the omelet 
adhering to it, then fold it over and slip it on to a plate. 

Oyster Omelet. — Place 12 medium-sized oysters in the 

water pan without their liquor, add % tablespoonful butter, Vg 
even teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, and 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice ; place the blazer over the lamp and let the oysters boil up, 
then mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls cream, add it 
to the oysters, stir for a minute, then remove and set them warm ; 
next separate 3 eggs, mix the yolks with 3 tablespoonfuls cold 
water, add a little salt and pepper ; beat the white to a stiff froth, 
add the yolks slowly to the whites while beating constantly; 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 59 

have the blazer over the lamp, when hot put in 1 tablespoonful 
butter, as soon as melted add the egg mixture ; cover and cook 
5 minutes ; then shake the blazer to loosen the omelet, cover 
again, and cook till it is firm to the touch ; then put a few oysters 
over the omelet, fold it over, and slip on to a hot plate, and 
lay the remaining oysters around it, pour over the sauce, and 
serve. 

Cheese Omelet. — Put 4 ounces fine-cut cheese in the 
chafing-dish pan, add % teaspoonf ul butter, y^ teaspoonful English 
mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls cream or milk ; place the pan over the 
lamp, stir until the cheese has formed into a creamy mixture, 
remove the pan, cover and set it in a warm place ; next prepare 
a French omelet, put over the cheese preparation, fold it double, 
and serve on hot plates from the blazer. 

Cheese Omelet, No. 2. — Prepare either a German or 
French omelet ; when done, sprinkle over 4 tablespoonfuls grated 
cheese, fold it and serve. 

Spanish Omelet. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 
tablespoonful fine-chopped onions, 1 small fine-cut green pepper 
without the seeds ; cook 5 minutes without browning ; add 2 
tablespoonfuls tine-chopped mushrooms, 1 fine-cut tomato or % 
cup canned tomatoes, 1 even tablespoonful salt, % even teaspoon- 
ful pepper, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped cooked ham, % teaspoon- 
ful sugar, and a little beef extract ; cover and cook 10 minutes ; 
prepare a German omelet of 3 eggs, pour 3 tablespoonfuls of the 
preparation over the omelet, fold it together, slip the omelet on 
to a hot dish, pour the remaining sauce over it, and serve. 

Lobster Omelet. — Put '/g pint of cooked lobster meat 
over the lamp in the blazer, cover barely with cream or milk ; 
mix Vg teaspoonful cornstarch or flour with 1 teaspoonful butter, 



60 EGGS AND OMELETS. 

add it to the lobster, season with '^/^ teaspoonfwl salt and a little 
white pepper ; prepare either a German omelet of 3 eggs or a 
French omelet of 4 eggs ; put part of the lobster over the omelet, 
fold and slip it on to a hot dish, pour the remaining lobster 
around it, and serve. 

Tomato Omelet. — Melt Vg tablespoonful butter in the 
blazer ; peel and cut into quarters 3 ripe tomatoes, add them to 
the butter, season with % teaspoonful salt and the same of pep- 
per and sugar, cook 10 minutes ; prepare a German omelet of 3 
eggs or a French omelet of 4 eggs ; lay half of the tomatoes over 
the omelet, fold it over and slip it on to a plate ; pour the re- 
maining tomatoes around it, and serve with toast or bread and 
butter. 

Tomato Omelet (No. 2). — Drain 1 cup of canned toma- 
toes in a sieve ; melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add the tomatoes, 
season with Vi teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, and the 
same of sugar ; cook 10 minutes ; beat 6 eggs until very light, 
add them to the tomatoes, stir until they begin to thicken, then 
let rest for a few minutes, fold the omelet over and slip on to a 
hot plate and serve. 

Kidney Omelet. — Split 3 lamb kidneys, remove the white 
fatty part in center, cut the kidney into small slices ; fry Ya tea- 
spoonful grated onion in Vj tablespoonful butter 2 minutes, add 
the kidneys, season with Va teaspoonful salt, 74 teaspoonful pep- 
per, 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, stir and cook 5 minutes, 
sprinkle over Vj teaspoonful flour, add Va cupful water with a 
little beef extract, cook 3 minutes, add 1 teaspoonful lemon 
juice, remove and set aside. Then prepare either a German or 
a French omelet, pour over the kidney, fold over and serve. 

Rum Omelet. — Prepare an omelet of 2 large or 3 small 
eggs the same as in foregoing recipe, omitting the pepper; 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 61 

when the omelet is done, fold and slip it on to a plate, sprinkle 
over 2 tablespoonf uls granulated sugar, pour over Va gill of rum, 
hold a lighted match to it, set it on lire and serve. 

Strawberry Omelet. — Prepare a German-omelet of 3 
eggs, add 1 teaspoonful sugar, omit the pepper ; bake as directed 
in former recipe (see German Omelet). Pick, wash, and drain 
1 pint of strawberries, mash them with a fork, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar; when the omelet is baked, put part of the straw- 
berries over the omelet, fold and slip it on to a hot dish, pour 
the remaining around it and serve. 

Strawberry Omelet with Whipped Cream.— Pre- 
pare the omelet the same as in the foregoing recipe, put half the 
strawberries inside the omelet, spread the other half over the top 
of the omelet, and cover the whole with Vg pint of whipped 
cream sweetened with sugar. 

Nut Omelet. — Soak Ya cupful shelled walnuts in 1 pint 
of cold water and Ya tablespoonful salt for 2 hours, then 
drain and break them into pieces ; cut Ya pint of shrimps 
into fine slices ; if canned shrimps are used, rinse them off 
with cold water before using; melt Ya tablespoonful butter, 
add the nuts and shrimps, cover and cook from 6 to 8 minutes, 
stirring them twice during that time ; season with Y4 teaspoonful 
salt, Ys teaspoonful pepper, dust over Y2 teaspoonful flour, stir 1 
minute, add Y2 cupful milk or cream ; continue the cooking a 
few minutes, then set aside. Prepare a German omelet of 3 
eggs, pour half the shrimp mixture over the omelet, fold over 
and slip it on to a hot dish ; pour the remaining shrimps around 
it and serve. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Place the pan with water over the 
lamp ; cover first with a plate, then with the chafing-dish cover ; 
as soon as it boils remove the pan and set it aside ; then put the 



62 CAXAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

blazer with ^'2 tablespoouful butter over the lamp; when melted 
add 2 thin slices of bread and fry them light brown, lay the 
bread on the hot plate over the water pan, and keep it covered. 
Kext clean the blazer. Then put 4 ounces fine-cut cheese into 
the blazer, add ^2 teaspoonful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 
^ 8 teaspoonful English mustard, or a little Cayenne pepper ; stir 
till it forms into a creamy mixture ; then pour it over the fried 
bread, and serve. 

XoTE. — In place of cream, ale, beer, or water may be used. 

Cheese Fondu. — Fry 2 small slices of bread the same as 
for Welsh rarebit, lay the bread on a hot plate over the hot- 
water pan ; crack 2 eggs in a bowl, beat until very light ; add 2 
tablespoonfuls milk or cream, and again beat for a few minutes ; 
add a pinch of salt and a little Cayenne pepper ; grate 2 ounces 
American cheese ; place the blazer with 1 teaspoonful butter 
over the fire ; as soon as melted pour in the eggs, draw them 
with a spoon from side of pan toward the center ; when the 
eggs begin to thicken add 4 tablespoonfuls of the grated cheese, 
mix and stir for a few minutes, then divide it over the 2 pieces of 
fried bread, and serve. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Canape Sauce. — Rub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs fine, 
add 1 tablespoouful butter, stir until creamy ; then add 6 canned 
anchovy fillets, mashed fine. 1 tablespoouful fine-chopped capers, 
1 tablespoouful tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful 
English mixed mustard, dip a sprig of parsley into boiling water, 
then chop it fine, add % teaspoonful of the parsley to the sauce, 
and use as directed in following recipes. 

Note. — Anchovies can be bought in small tin boxes already 



CANAPES AXD SAXDWICHE5. 63 

prepared for use at the ddic:abes8en store ; they are freed from 
skill and bones, and are divided in halves; those halves are 
called " fillete " ; they cost from 20 to 30 cents per box. 

Canape a la ^linden. — Stir the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs fine, add 1 taoiespoonim butter, 1 tablespoonf ol lemon jiiice, 
6 canned aiichoWes, 1 teaspoonfnl English mustard, mixed, *4 
teaspoonful white pepper or a little Cayenne pepper ; add 1 pint 
of fine-minced boiled ham, also the fine-chopped whites of the 
boiled eggs, and 1 tablespoonful fine^hopped capers; mix all 
together. Cut 12 thin slices of bread into oblong shapes, fry 
them light brown in butter ; when cold spread the ham mixture 
equally over each slice; smooth it with a knife. Put ^,2 pound 
fine-cut American cheese in the blazer over the lamp, add V4 
cup of milk, stir until creamy, spread it over the canapes, and 
serve at once. 

Canape a la Ru-^ie. — Stir the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
^^ fine, add 1 tablespoonful butter, stir until creamy ; add by 
d^rees 4 tablespoonfuls Russian caviare, 1 tablespoonful lime 
or lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped shallot or white onion, 
a pinch of Cayenne pepper, 6 canned anchovy fillets. Cut 6 thin 
slices of bread into rotmds, fry them light brown with butter in 
the blazer ; when cold spread over the above preparation, giving 
them a dome shape. Place 4 ounces grated Swiss cheese with 
IV'2 tablespoonful milk over the lamp, stir till creamy, divide it 
equally over each canape, and serve at once. 

Canape a la Richelien. — Cut 12 thin slices of bread into 
rounds with a cake cutter, fry light brown in butter (or brush 
the rounds over with a little melted butter, and bake light brown 
in a hot oven). When cold, cover one side of each with a canape 
sauce. In the meantime have the meat extracted from 6 hard 
shell boiled crabs^ cut it up into small pieces ; mix 2 tablespoon- 



64 CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

fuls oil with 2 tablespoonf Ills lemon juice, ^/^ teaspoonful salt, and 
a little Cayenne pepper ; pour it over the crab meat, let it 
stand ^/i hour. At the same time cook 12 canned mushrooms 
with 1 tablespoonful butter, the juice of Vg lemon, ^J^ teaspoonful 
salt, and 74 teaspoonful pepper 10 minutes. Set aside to cool, lay 
the crab meat, equally divided, over each canape, put 1 mushroom 
in center of each canape, and around the mushroom 1 teaspoonful 
Russian caviare. 

Canape of Sardines. — Cut some slices of a long-shaped 
loaf of bread, and shape the slices either round or oval ; fry them 
light brown in butter, spread each piece with a canape sauce, put 
2 small sardines on the canape, and garnish with fine-chopped 
beets, pickles, and capers. 

Canape a la Bismarck. — Prepare a canape sauce ; then 
cut 8 or 10 slices from a long loaf of bread, cut the slices into 
round or oval shapes, fry them light brown in butter, when cold 
spread a layer of the canape sauce over one side of each piece of 
bread ; put 10 mushrooms in the blazer with 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, a little salt, and pepper; 
cover and cook 10 minutes ; then add 20 canned shrimps previ- 
ously washed in cold water, cook 5 minutes, lay in center of each 
canape 1 mushroom, and on each side a shrimp. 

Canape a 1' Anchovies. — Procure a can of anchovies 
from the delicatessen store ; open and turn the contents on to a 
plate ; dip 1 sprig of parsley into boiling water, remove and 
chop fine ; mix it in a bowl with 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar and 3 
tablespoonf uls olive oil, pour it over the anchovies ; toast 6 slices 
of bread, cut them into oval shapes, cover one side of each piece 
of toast with a canape sauce ; arrange the anchovies like lattice- 
work over each slice ; dress them on a dish and garnish with 
water cress. 



CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 65 

Sandwiches.-Stir the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs with 2 
ounces of butter to a cream, add 1 raw yolk, 1 tablespoonf ul lemon 
iuice or tarragon vinegar, 12 fillets of canned anchovies, 1 tea- 
spoonful English mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped pickles 
1 tablespoonful fine-chopped capers, the fine-chopped whites of 
the boiled eggs,% teaspoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonful grated 
onion ; when this is well mixed add 1 pound fine-mmced boiM 
ham ; spread 1 tablespoonful of this preparation over a thm shce 
of bread, cover with another slice ; then cut the sandwiches even 
all around and in half diagonally ; when they are all prepared m 
this way serve them on a folded napkin. If the sandwich prepa- 
ration is not used all at once put it into a small jar ; cover and 
keep in a cool place ; it will keep for some time. 

Chicken or Turkey Sandwiehes.-Cut cold roasted 
chicken or turkey into fine slices, spread some thin slices of 
bread with a canape sauce ; put 2 slices of bread together with a 
shce of chicken between, trim the sandwiches neatly, cut them 
into 3-cornered pieces and serve' on a folded napkin; or spread 
the bread with butter, lay on the chicken, sprinkle over a little 
salt and finish the same as above. Another way is to mix 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls butter with 1 tablespoonful French mustard, spread 
the shces of bread with the mustard butter, put a slice of roasted 
chicken, turkey, cold roasted veal, or boiled ham between 2 slices 
and finish the same as above; or another way is to put small 
pickles cut in half over the meat between the slices, or spread the 
bread with butter, put on the meat and a little French mustard 
over the meat. 

Lettuce Sandwiches.-Spread some thin shces of bread 
with a canape sauce, put 2 and 2 slices together with 2 or 3 
young lettuce leaves between; cut them even all around, then 
into 3-cornered pieces, and serve. 



QQ CANAPES AND SANDWICHES. 

Lenten Sandwiches. — Chop fine 1 pickled beet, 3 smaU 
pickles, 1 tablespoonf ul fine-chopped capers, 2 hard-boiled eggs ; 
mix all the ingredients together with % pint of mayonnaise ; cut 
12 thin slices of bread, spread a thin layer of the above prepara- 
tion over each slice, dip some young lettuce leaves into mayon- 
naise, lay them over 6 slices of bread, and cover them with the 
other 6 slices ; cut the sandwiches even all around, then cut into 
small triangles and serve. 

Sandwiches a la Brigiun. — Cut 12 thin slices of bread, 
mix 4 ounces of butter with 1 tablespoonf ul English mixed mus- 
tard, spread this over the slices of bread, lay on this butter some 
fine-chopped small pickles, dip some small lettuce leaves into a 
mayonnaise, lay them over the pickles, and lay over the lettuce 
leaves a thin slice of chicken meat, then some more lettuce leaves, 
mayonnaise, and fine-chopped hard-boiled eggs; cover with a 
slice of the buttered bread, trim them neatly, and cut them 
into triangles and arrange the sandwiches on a folded nap- 
kin. 

Mayonnaise. — The yolks of 4 eggs, 8 tablespoonfuls salad 
oil, 4 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful French mustard, 1 cupful whipped 
cream ; put the yolks in a small saucepan, add slowly, while 
stirring constantly, 4 tablespoonfuls oil, then 4 tablespoonfuls 
white vinegar ; have the chafing-dish pan half full of boiling wa- 
ter, put the saucepan in the hot water, and stir till the contents of 
saucepan thicken ; then instantly remove ; continue the stirring 
till cold, then slowly add the remaining 4 tablespoonfuls oil, stir- 
ring constantly ; next add salt, sugar, mustard, and last the 
cream ; in place of cream, 1 tablespoonful unsweetened con- 
densed milk may be taken, or the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. 



SALADS. 67 

SALADS. 

Neapolitan Salad. — Set a bowl with the yolks of 2 eggs 
into cracked ice ; add 1 even teaspoonful salt, V2 teaspoonful 
English mustard, a little red pepper ; beat this 2 minutes ; then 
add, drop by drop, ^//^ cupful salad oil ; as it thickens add a little 
white vinegar, 1 teaspoonful in all ; then add 1 tablespoonful 
fine-chopped shallot or white onion, 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 
capers, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, % teaspoonful white 
pepper ; add last 1 cupful whipped cream, or add the beaten 
whites of the 2 eggs and 1 tablespoonful unsweetened condensed 
milk ; then cut ^/^ pint cooked beets, previously laid in vinegar, 
into small dice-shaped pieces, Va pint cold boiled potatoes cut 
the same way, 2 hard-boiled eggs, and Va cupful pickles also cut 
into dice-shaped pieces ; to this add Va pint shredded cabbage. 
Put the potatoes into a salad bowl, pour a little of the above 
sauce over them, lay the beets and some of the sauce next the cab- 
bage, then the eggs and pickles ; pour the remaining sauce over 
the whole and garnish with a border of finely shredded cabbage, 
hard-boiled eggs, a little fine-chopped beets, pickles, and capers. 

Salad a la Navarro.— Clean and cut into thin slices 1 
medium-sized carrot, lay several slices over one another, and cut 
them into fine strips ; place the blazer, half full of water, over 
the lamp ; cover, and when boiling put in the fine-cut carrots, 
add 1 teaspoonful sugar, and boil till tender ; then add ^ 2 cupful 
small green peas ; boil 10 minutes, then drain off the water, and 
place the vegetables into a dish to cool ; cut 2 cold boiled potatoes 
into small dice-shaped pieces, also 2 hard-boiled eggs ; put the 
eggs and vegetables together in a salad dish, add 1 cupful finely 
shredded white cabbage ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of grated horse- 
radish ; prepare a mayonnaise, add half of it to the vegetables, 
mix it well, put the remaining over the top, lay a border of 



68 SALADS. 

shredded lettuce leaves around the dish, cut 1 hard-boiled egg 
into quarters, and lay them over the salad ; sprinkle 1 table- 
spoonful capers over, and serve ; or garnish with shaved horse- 
radish, colored to a delicate pink with a little prepared coloring 
paste. To this salad 1 cupful fine cut cooked veal may be added. 

Lettuce Salad. — For 1 large head of lettuce, mix 3 table- 
spoonfuls of oil with 3 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, Ya teaspoon- 
ful salt, 74 teaspoonful white pepper, stir 3 minutes ; remove the 
outer wilted leaves from a nice head of lettuce, and also the 
thick veins, wash and place the lettuce for 30 minutes in ice 
water ; when ready to serve, drain the lettuce on a sieve, put it 
in a dish, pour over the dressing, and serve ; in case the vinegar 
is too strong, it may be diluted with cold water. 

Egg Salad. — Boil 9 eggs 10 minutes; remove and lay 
them in cold water ; when cold, remove the shells and cut 7 eggs 
into slices and 2 into quarters ; prepare a mayonnaise ; then put 
the eggs in a salad dish, pour over the mayonnaise, lay small let- 
tuce leaves in a circle around the dish, and the egg quarters over 
the salad, and serve. Fine-cut celery may be added to the egge. 

Cucumber Salad. — Peel 3 fresh cucumbers, lay them in 
1 quart of cold water, add 2 tablespoonfuls salt and a piece of 
ice ; let them lay for 1 hour. Shortly before serving, cut the 
cucumbers into fine slices, put them into a salad dish, mix 4 
tablespoonfuls white vinegar with 3 tablespoonfuls oil, 1 table- 
spoonful fine-chopped onion, and y^ teaspoonful white pepper; 
pour this over the cucumbers, and serve. The onions may be 
omitted if objected to. 

Potato Salad. — Cut some cold peeled cooked potatoes 
into fine slices, then measure them — there should be one quart; 
stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream, add slowly y^ cup of oil, 
then % cupful white vinegar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 72 teaspoonful 



DESSERTS. 69 

pepper, and 2 medium-sized fiue-chopped onions ; put a layer of 
potatoes in a salad dish, pour over some of the sauce, continue 
alternately with potatoes and sauce till all is in the dish, pour 
over all a little boiling water, let stand a half hour, then serve. 

Tomato Salad. — Lay 4 good-sized ripe tomatoes for sev- 
eral hours on ice ; then cut them with a sharp knife into thin 
slices, place them into a salad dish, sprinkle over % teaspoonful 
salt, % teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar ; mix ^/^ cup of 
vinegar with 74 cup cold water, pour it over the tomatoes, and 
serve ; 1 finely sliced onion may be added if liked. 

For other salads, see my book Desserts and Salads. 



DESSERTS. 

Cocoa Pudding, — Soak 1 ounce of gelatin in 1 cup of 
cold water ten minutes ; put 3 tablespoonf uls of cocoa with Yj pint 
cold water in the blazer, add % cup of sugar and 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla ; place the blazer over the lamp, stir and let it boil a few 
minutes, then add the gelatin, stir until dissolved, remove from 
the fire, and when cold and begins to thicken add 1 pint of 
whipped cream, stirring constantly ; pour it into a form and set 
on ice ; serve with tulip sauce. 

Apple Pannaquets. — Stir the yolks of 3 eggs to a cream 
with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, and 3 peeled and grated apples ; add last 
the beaten whites and bake small pancakes from this in the cha- 
fing dish ; serve dusted with sugar. 

Rolled Pancake. — Separate the yolks and whites of 2 
eggs ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the yolks with a little 



70 DESSERTS. 

salt, % cupful flour, and 1 cupful milk or water to a smooth bat- 
ter ; then pour gradually, while beating constantly, the batter into 
the beaten whites ; place the blazer over the lamp ; when hot put 
in Ya tablespoonful butter or lard ; as soon as melted pour in one 
third of the batter, cover and cook till light brown on the under 
side, then turn and bake the same on the other side, slip the pan- 
cake on to a plate, spread over some jelly or marmalade, roll up, 
and keep it warm till the remaining batter is baked the same 
way. 

Snow Pudding, — Put Va ounce gelatin in the blazer with 
Ya pint cold water, let it stand ten minutes, then add Ya pint hot 
water, Y2 cup sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and the grated rind of 
Y2 lemon ; place the blazer over the lamp, and stir till the gela- 
tin is dissolved ; then remove and strain through a napkin ; 
place the mixture in a bowl on ice, and when it begins to thick- 
en, beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly the gela- 
tin mixture to the whites, while beating constantly ; continue 
stirring for a few minutes longer, then pour it into a form, and 
set on ice ; serve with vanilla sauce. 

Vienna Orange Cream, — Put Ya ounce of gelatin in a 
small bowl with Y2 gil^ of cold water, let it stand till soft, then 
add Y2 gill of boiling water, set the bowl in the water pan, and 
stir till dissolved, remove and set aside ; in the meantime stir the 
yolks of 6 eggs with 6 tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream, add by 
degrees Y2 pi^^t of orange juice and 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 
add lastly the gelatin ; continue to stir till it begins to thicken ; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, then add slowly, while beating 
constantly, the orange mixture to the beaten whites ; rinse out a 
form with cold water, pour in the cream, and set aside to cool. 

Apple Fritters. — Peel 2 large greening apples, cut them 
into quarters, remove the core and place the apples in the blazer 



DESSERTS. Yl 

over the lamp, add 2 tablespoonfuls water, cover, and cook till 
done ; remove the cover and let them cook till all the moisture has 
evaporated, then put the apples in a dish, and set aside to cool ; 
beat the yolks of 2 eggs with V/2 tablespoonful sugar to a cream, 
add 1 teaspoonful lemon juice and a very little grated rind ; add 
the apples to the yolks and 1 heaping tablespoonful flour, beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, add the apple mixture gradually to the 
whites, while beating constantly ; place % tablespoonful butter 
and lard in the blazer ; when melted put in small portions of the 
batter with a spoon the size of an oyster, fry light brown on 
both sides ; serve dusted with sugar. 

Manilla Pudding. — Place the blazer with 1 pint of milk 
and 2 tablespoonfuls fine-chopped blanched almonds over the 
water pan, add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and 
1 teaspoonful butter, cover, and let the milk come to a boil ; mix 
4 tablespoonfuls flour with 1 cup cold milk, stir it into the boil- 
ing milk, cook and stir a few minutes ; beat the whites of 3 eggs 
to a stiff froth, add it to the contents in the blazer, stir and cook 
until thick ; rinse out a mold with cold water, pour in the pud- 
ding, and set aside to cool. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Dampf Nudeln.— Sift 1 cup of flour into a bowl, add 1 
teaspoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful sugar with % teaspoonful 
baking powder ; rub butter and flour together, mix the yolks of 
3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls milk, add it to the flour, mix all to- 
gether, add 1 tablespoonful of currants and 1 tablespoonful seeded 
raisins ; place the blazer over the hot- water pan with 1 cupful 
boiling milk, % tablespoonful butter, and y^ tablespoonful sugar ; 
put the batter with a spoon into the blazer, cover, and cook till 
done, which in small portions will take about 25 minutes. To 
ascertain when done, stick a fork through them. If it comes out 
clean, they are done ; if some of the dough adheres to it, the 

cooking must be continued. Serve with snow sauce. 
6 



72 DESSERTS. 

Omelet Souffle. — Stir Vj tablespoonful butter with 2 
tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream ; add the grated rind of Va lemon 
and the yolks of 6 eggs, then add 2 teaspoonf uls flour ; beat the 
whites to a stiflE froth, add slowly the batter to the whites, while 
beating constantly ; place the blazer with Va cup milk and V2 
tablespoonful butter over the water pan, which should be half 
full of boiling water ; when the milk boils, pour in the mixture, 
cover, and cook till firm to the touch, which will take from 20 
to 30 minutes. Serve with Toronto sauce. 

Strawberry Pudding, — Place the blazer with Yj pint 
strawberry sirup over the lamp, add Va pint of water ; if not 
sweet enough add more sugar ; when it boils, add slowly 3 table- 
spoonfuls dry farina, stir and cook 10 minutes, add a little pink 
coloring ; have the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add it 
to the blazer, stir and cook till all is well mixed ; pour the pud- 
ding into a bowl and set aside to cool ; serve with cream, which 
should be sweetened with sugar and flavored with vanilla, or 
serve with vanilla sauce. 

In place of strawberry sirup, 1 cupful of orange juice may 
be used, or Vg cupful of lemon juice and y^ pint of water, or any 
other kind of fruit juice or sirup may be used. 

Plum Pudding. — Put 1 pound of fruit cake into the 
blazer, liave the chating-dish pan, % full of boiling water, over the 
lamp, put the blazer over the water, cover and cook from 15 to 
20 minutes. Hard Sauce : stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream, 
add by degrees 4 tablespoonf uls sifted powdered sugar, stir until 
light and creamy, add 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, rum, or sherry 
wine, or a little grated nutmeg ; serve with the pudding. 

Neapolitan Pudding. — Cut any kind of nice plain cake 
into slices, spread each slice with current jelly, and cover them 
with banana slices; put 1 tablespoonful whipped cream, pre- 
viously sweetened, on top of the bananas, and serve. 



DESSERTS. Y3 

Cream Tarts. — Fill some cold patty cases with fine-cut 
preserved pineapple, put a spoonful of whipped cream on top 
of each tart, and serve. In place of pineapple any kind of fresh 
or preserved fruit may be taken. 

Peach Float. — Cut 4 preserved peaches into fine slices, 
put them into a dish ; put 1 pint of milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls sugar, and Ya tablespoonful cornstarch in the 
blazer, stir until all is well mixed ; have the water pan Vs full of 
boiling water over the lamp, place the blazer over the water, 
stir until it begins to boil, add 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract, in- 
stantly remove and set aside ; when cold, pour the custard over 
the peaches, beat the 3 whites to a stiff froth, mix with 1 table- 
spoonful sifted powdered sugar, lay it with a spoon over the cus- 
tard in shape of snowballs ; break 6 lady fingers in halves and 
set them in a circle around the dish. Bananas may be used in 
place of peaches. 

Pan Doughdy. — Sift Va pint of flour with Vg teaspoonful 
baking powder into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful 
sugar, and 1 teaspoonful butter ; rub the butter and flour together, 
add Va cupful milk, mix the whole with a knife into a firm dough, 
turn it on to a pastry board, roll it out Va inch thick, and cut it 
into strips 1 inch wide. Pare and cut into small slices 4 nice tart 
apples, measure them (there should be 1 pint), put the apples in the 
blazer, add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 tablespoonful water ; 
cover the apples with the above paste, have the chafing-dish pan 
Ys full of boiling water, place the blazer over it, cover, and cook 
25 to 30 minutes. Serve with hard sauce the same as for plum 
pudding. In place of apples, peaches, huckleberries, blackber- 
ries, or any other kind of fruit may be taken. 

How to steam and prepare Shredded Wheat for 
General Use. — Dissolve 1 teaspoonful salt in 1 pint cold water, 



74 DESSERTS. 

dip the shredded- wheat biscuits separately into tlie water, lay them 
on the chafing-dish steamer and steam 3 minutes, or long enough 
to heat through. Remove carefully and serve with cream and 
sugar. Or serve them with jelly, marmalade, preserved or 
stewed fruit ; or mix currants and raspberries together, sweeten 
with sugar, mash them with a spoon, and spread them over the 
steamed biscuits, or cover them with mashed strawberries sweet- 
ened with sugar ; or the biscuits may be first covered with the 
strawberries, and then with whipped cream. 

Shredded Wheat with Milk. — Put a shredded-wheat 
biscuit in a saucer, pour over some milk, let it stand a few 
minutes, and serve. 

Shredded Wheat with Creamed Chicken, Turkey, 
or Veal. — Steam 2 shredded-wheat biscuits as directed, melt Va 
tablespoonf ul butter in the blazer, when hot put in the steamed bis- 
cuits, fry 2 minutes on each side, remove carefully to a dish, cover, 
and set aside. Then return blazer with Vs tablespoonful butter 
and y2 tablespoonful flour to the lamp ; stir and cook 2 minutes, 
add 1 cup of milk and a little salt, stir and cook to a smooth sauce, 
add Va pint fine-cut cooked chicken or turkey meat, cook and stir 
a few minutes, pour over the biscuits, and serve. In place of 
chicken or turkey cold roasted veal may be taken. 

Shredded Wheat to he used in Place of Toast or 
Croutons. — Steam and fry the bread the same as for creamed 
chicken, and serve it under birds in place of toast or croutons. 
Stewed tomatoes poured over the steamed wheat is a nice break- 
fast or lunch dish. All dishes which are mentioned in this book 
where toast or croutons are to be used shredded wheat is an 
excellent substitute. 

Canape Minardo. — Steam 2 shredded-wheat biscuits as di- 
rected, then fry them light brown on both sides in butter, lay 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 75 

them on a warm dish, cover, and set aside ; put 4 ounces fine-cut 
cheese in the blazer, add 4 tablespoonfuls milk, % teaspoonful 
English mustard, and a pinch of paprika, place the blazer over the 
lamp, stir and cook till creamy, pour it over the biscuits, and 
serve. 

Canape Mikadanda.— Prepare 4 shredded-wheat biscuits 
the same as in foregoing recipe. Rinse 12 canned shrimps in cold 
water, drain and fry them 3 minutes in % tablespoonful butter, and 
set aside ; beat 4 eggs until light, add 4 tablespoonfuls water, and 
again beat for 2 minutes, add ^/i teaspoonful salt and a little white 
pepper. Melt y^ tablespoonful butter in the blazer, pour in the 
eggs, stir for a few minutes ; when the eggs begin to set, add 4 
ounces grated Swiss or American cheese, stir for 1 minute, then 
divide the mixture equally over the biscuits, lay 3 shrimps on to 
each one, and serve. 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

Martini Cocktail.— Vs French vermuth, Ys Italian ver- 
muth, Vs Gordon gin. Pour over cracked ice in metal shaker 
and shake until frappeed. 

Dry Martini Cocktail.— % French vermuth, Vs Italian 

vermuth, % Gordon gin. Shake as above. 

Bronx Cocktail.— V4 French vermuth, % Italian ver- 
muth, Vs dry gin, thick slice of orange. Fill mixing glass or 
shaker with cracked ice, shake well, strain into cocktail glass. 

Sazarac Cocktail. — 1 teaspoonful of orgeat, 2 dashes 
Peychaud bitters, 1 jigger Bourbon whisky, 1 dash of absinthe. 
Serve in old-fashioned cocktail glass. 

Manhattan.— Fill a glass half full of fine-broken ice, add 
V2 glass full of whisky, V2 glass of vermuth, 2 dashes of gum 



76 PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

sirup, 1 dash of Boker's bitters; mix well, strain into a fancy 
glass, add a few drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

Iced Sherry. — Fill a glass Vg full of fine-shaved ice, add 1 
gill of sherry wine, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul lemon 
juice, and 1 slice of lemon without the pits, stir a few minutes, 
and serve. 

Iced Orange. — Fill a large glass half full with shaved ice, 
add a half cupful orange juice, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 1 or 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. This is eaten with a teaspoon. A half 
gill of Rhine wine, Madeira, or claret may be added to this if 
liked. 

Apple Toddy. — Put into a tumbler a small glass of apple- 
jack, Vj baked apple, 2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar ; fill the 
tumbler two thirds full of boiling water, and grate over the top 
a little nutmeg. 

Whisky Toddy. — A half tablespoonful powdered sugar, a 
wineglassful of whisky, 72 wineglass of water, and a little cracked 
ice. 

Brandy and gin toddies are made the same as whisky toddy, 
using either of the two liquors instead of brandy. These tod- 
dies may be served hot by filling the tumbler two thirds full of 
boiling water. 

Brandy Flipp. — Mix in a tumbler 1 tablespoonful pow- 
dered sugar, 3 of brandy, 1% of water, and a piece of lemon ; add 
sufficient fine-cracked ice to fill the tumbler two thirds full, and 
serve. Gin flipp is made the same way, substituting gin for 
brandy. 

Sherry Flipp. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg with 1 tablespoon- 
ful sugar to a cream, add 1 gill of sherry wine, fill the glass % 
full of ice, shake well until thoroughly mixed, strain into a glass ; 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 77 

beat the white to a stiff froth, then pour the contents of the glass 
to the beaten white, while beating constantly, and serve. 

Sherry Flipp, Plain, — Put 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 
in a tumbler, add 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 gill of sherry wine, 2 
tablespoonfuls shaved ice, stir, and serve. 

Brandy Cream Soda. — Put the white of 1 egg with the 
juice of 1 lemon and 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar into a large 
tumbler, stir until foamy, then add % giU of "^ilk and % giU of 
brandy ; fill the glass with fine-chopped ice, shake it with the 
shaker, strain into a glass, and fill it up with plain soda or any 
kind of mineral water. 

Refresher. — Fill a large glass half full of finely shaved 
ice, pour over 1 teaspoonful powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
Curagoa, and 1 gill of Catawba wine ; shake well with the 
shaker and serve with a straw without straining. 

Iced Sherry with Bitters. — Fill a tumbler half full of 
finely shaved ice, pour over 1 teaspoonful Angostura bitters, % 
teaspoonful of maraschino, and 4 tablespoonfuls sherry wine ; 
shake well with a shaker, strain into a glass, and serve. 

Kum Sour. — Dissolve 1 tablespoonful sugar in Vg wine- 
glass of water, add 4 tablespoonfuls of rum, 1 tablespoonful gin, 
and 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, and a small piece of ice. 

Brandy and Bourbon sours are made the same way by taking 
either of the two liquors in place of rum. 

Whisky Cobbler. — Mix in a tumbler 1 gill of whisky 
with 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, add 3 slices of orange 
without the pits, fill the glass with fine cracked ice, shake it up 
well, and sip through a straw. 

Brandy Cup.— Stir the yolk of 1 egg with 1 tablespoonful 
sugar to a cream, add 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino and 4 table- 



78 PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

spoonfuls brandy, mix, fill the glass with cracked ice, shake well, 
strain into a glass, and serve. 

Kum Soda. — Fill a tumbler half full of fine-cracked ice, 
pour over the juice of % lemon, 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls orgeat, 2 tablespoonfuls old St. Croix rum. Fill 
the glass with plain soda water, while stirring constantly, strain 
into a glass, and serve, or take the ice out with a spoon. 

Orange Soda. — Fill a tumbler half full of finely shaved 
ice, pour in the juice of 1 orange, 1 tablespoonful brandy, 1 
tablespoonful Curagoa, fill the glass with plain soda, and serve. 

Champagne Velvet. — Fill a large glass with 1 gill of 
porter and 1 gill of champagne, then serve. 

Fedora. — Put in a large glass 1 tablespoonful Jamaica 
rum and the same of whisky, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, and 
also the same of Curagoa, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, 2 thin slices of 
lemon, and the same of orange ; fill the glass with fine-cracked 
ice, and serve with a straw. 

Eggnog. — Stir 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar with the yolk of 
1 egg to a cream, add 1 tablespoonful of the best Jamaica rum, 
beat the white to a froth, add it to the above mixture, and serve. 
Eggnog prepared in this way is excellent. 

In place of rum, sherry wine or cognac can be taken. 

Pousse Caf6. — Pour into a fine cordial glass Va teaspoonful 

raspberry sirup, over this % teaspoonful maraschino, over this Vz 
teaspoonful creme de mint, over this Va teaspoonful yellow Char- 
treuse, then ^2 teaspoonful green Chartreuse, and last % tea- 
spoonful brandy. These liquors should be poured in such a way 
that they remain each distinct. 

Pousse Caf6, No. 3. — Pour 1 teaspoonful red Cura§oa into 
a glass, over this 1 teaspoonful j'ellow Chartreuse, and last 1 tea- 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. Y9 

spoonful brandy. Pousse cafd is served at dinner after the 
coffee. 

Milk Punch. — Fill a large glass one third full of fine ice, 
add 1 teaspoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, and 1 table- 
spoonful St. Croix rum ; fill the glass with milk, put over the 
shaker, shake for a few minutes, strain in a glass, and serve. 

Milk Punch with Egg. — Stir the yolk of 1 egg with 1 
tablespoonful powdered sugar to a cream, add a small glass of 
brandy, and a little St. Croix rum ; then beat the white to a stiff 
froth in a large tumbler ; add the above mixture gradually, while 
beating constantly, then add sufficient milk to fill the glass, add a 
little ice, and, if liked, season with grated nutmeg. 

Hot Orange Punch. — Boil % pound sugar with 1 pint of 
water, remove, add the peel of 1 orange, let it remain 5 minutes ; 
then take out the peel, add % pint of strained orange juice, 1 gill 
of lemon juice, % pint of rum or brandy ; heat the whole with- 
out boiling and serve hot. 

Champagne Punch.— Pour 1 pint of boiling water over 
2 teaspoonfuls of the best Oolong tea, cover, and let it stand in a 
warm place 10 minutes ; then strain and set aside ; when cold 
put the tea into a punch bowl, add % pint of Ehine wine, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of brandy, the same of maraschino, 1 bottle of plain 
soda, and 1 quart bottle champagne, 1 sliced banana, and 1 sliced 
orange and a piece of ice. 

Fruit Punch. — Put Vj pint of orange juice with 1 pound 
of sugar into a bowl, add 1 gill of lemon juice, Yg pint of straw- 
berry sirup or juice, or % pint of raspberry sirup, 2 quarts 
water, Vj pint fine-cut pineapple, and, if in season, % pint fresh 
strawberries, and a piece of ice; let stand 15 minutes, then 
serve. 



80 PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 

Cold Claret Punch. — Put 1 bottle of good claret into a 
bowl, add ^4^ cupful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls Cura§oa and kirsch, 1 
pint of cold water, a piece of ice, the juice of 1 lemon, and Va 
pint of pitted or preserved cherries ; in place of cherries another 
kind of fruit in season may be used. 

Plain Claret Punch. — Put 1 bottle claret into a bowl, 
add 1% cup sugar, 2 sliced lemons without the pits, 2 quarts 
cold water, and a piece of ice, then serve. 

Hot Claret Punch. — Boil 1 cup of sugar and 1 cup of 
water with the thin peel of 1 lemon and a small stick of cinna- 
mon 5 minutes ; add 1 pint of good claret, let it get boiling hot, 
remove the peel and cinnamon, and serve. 

Rum Punch, Hot. — Boil 2 tablespoonfuls sugar with Yj 
cup water, then add Vg gill of best rum, 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice ; let it get hot without boiling, and serve. This is excellent 
for a cold. Brandy punch is made the same way. 

Orangeade. — Put % pint of orange juice and 1 gill of 
lemon juice into a bowl, add % pint of raspberry sirup, 1 cupful 
sugar, 2 quarts cold water, a piece of ice, % pint fine-cut pineap- 
ple, either fresh or preserved, 1 fine-sliced banana, and 1 orange 
cut into fine slices and freed from pits ; let it stand 30 minutes, 
then serve. 

Orangeade, Plain. — Pare very thin the yellow skin from 
4 large oranges, lay the peel in a bowl, cut the oranges into 
halves, and press out the juice and strain it over the orange peel ; 
add the strained juice of 4 lemons, add 2 cups sugar, cover, and 
let stand 10 minutes, then remove the peel, add 2 quarts water, 
a piece of ice, and a few slices of oranges freed from the pits, 
and serve. 

Strawberry Punch. — Inclose 1 quart of well-cleaned ripe 
strawberries in a piece of clieese cloth, press out all the juice into 



PUNCHES AND MIXED DRINKS. 81 

a bowl add the juice of 2 lemons, 1 bottle Rhine or whit€ wine, 
2 cupf uls sugar, 2 quarts cold water, a large piece of ice, and 1 
pint of nice ripe strawberries, let it stand 15 minutes, then serve ; 
if not sweet enough, add u.ore sugar. In place of strawberries, 
1 pint of strawberry sirup may be taken and less sugar. 

Strawberryade.— Mix in a punch bowl 1 pint of straw- 
berry sirup, 1 cupful lemon juice, 1 cupful sugar, 2 quarts cold 
water, a piece of ice, and 1 pint of fresh strawberries ; if straw- 
berries are not in season, cut 2 oranges into line slices, and free 
them from all pits, cut each slice in half, and add them to the 
bowl. 

Hot Lemonade.-Boil 1 cupful sugar with 1 quart of 
water, add V2 pint of strained lemon juice, heat it without lettmg 
it boil, and serve hot ; add more sugar if not sweet enough. 

Cold Lemonade.— Dissolve 1 cupful sugar in 1 quart of 
water, add a piece of ice ; press the juice from 4 large lemons, 
strain and add it to the water, serve ; if 1 glass of lemonade is to 
be made, dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls sugar in a Httle cold water, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, and fill the glass with ice 
water. 

Fine Lemonade.— Rub off the rinds from 4 large smooth 
lemons with loaf sugar ; this is done by taking the lemon in the 
left hand and a piece of loaf sugar in the right hand, then rub 
the sugar all over the lemon ; as soon as the sugar looks yellow, 
take a" fresh piece, then pour over 2 quarts boiling water, add 
more sugar to make it 1 pound in all ; add the juice of 6 large 
lemons ; when the sugar is dissolved, strain it through a napkin, 
place it on ice ; when ice cold beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff 
froth, add slowly the lemonade, while beating constantly, and 
serve'; or it may\e served without the eggs. This makes a nice 
lemon ice when frozen in a freezer. 



82 CHAFING DISH MENUS. 

Soda Lemonade. — Mix Vs teaspoonful bicarbonate of 
soda with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 
and the juice of V2 lemon; fill the glass with plain soda water, 
stir well, and drink in the morning before breakfast. In place 
of soda water, seltzer water may be used, or fill the glass with 
ice water and add the lemon juice last. 

Coffee. — The chafing dish coffee urn manufactured to-day, 
with alcohol or electric lamp, is the simplest. The w^ater should 
be boiling and a good rule for strong coffee is to allow a table- 
spoonful of ground coffee for each cup ; let the water spray over 
the coffee (which it does when the water begins to boil) about 
ten minutes ; then turn out the light, draw and serve. 

Tea. — Einse teapot out with fresh boiling water, add cold 
water to the water left in teakettle and let it cook up fresh 
again. Throw water from teapot. Measure with teaspoon, al- 
lowing one teaspoonful of tea to a cup, add measured cups of 
water, cover and let stand during five minutes and serve. 

Cocoa. — Put 1 pint of milk with V2 pint of water in 
blazer; add V4 teaspoonful of cornstarch, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cocoa, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Place over a lighted lamp and 
boil during five minutes and serve. 



CHAFING DISH MENUS. 

Menu No. 1. 

Finnan haddie, 
Crackers a la Poulette 
Cheese fondu 
Lenten sandwiches 
Cocoa 



CHAFING DISH MENUS. 83 

Menu No. 2. 

Tomato omelet 
Welsh rarebit 
Canape a la Bismarck 
Salad a la Navarro 
Omelet souffle 
Coffee 

Menu No. 3. 

Canape Minarclo 

Beef steak 

Mushroom sauce 

Bread 

Butter 

Egg salad 

Cocoa pudding 

Coffee 

Strawberryade 

Menu No. 4. 

Fedora 

Clams a la ISTewburg 

Scrambled eggs with tomato 

Sandwiches a la Brigum 

Apple pannaquettes 

Coffee 



84 CHAFING DISH AND ELABORATED LUNCHES. 

CHAFING DISH LUNCH. 

Menu No. 5. 

Eefresher 

Clam bisque 

Finger rolls 

Fillet of sole Traviette 

Potted squab on toast 

Mushroom saute 

Green peas 

Lettuce salad 

Snow pudding 

Coffee 



ELABORATED LUNCH. 

Menu No. 6. 

Hot clam pepper roast 

Canape a la Richelieu 

Venison steak with currant jelly sauce 

Hashed potatoes 

Asparagus with butter 

Salad a la iSTavarro 

Peach float 

Coffee or cocoa 

Benedictine 



(6) 



KCV 5 1912 



