In:*; 



THE EASTMAN WAY 



A Guide to 



m 



Home-Baking 
Health 
Economy and Weak 






By W. F. EASTMAJ 

President, National Pure Food Health Club 




Copyright N?.. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



THE EASTMAN WAY 



A GUIDE TO 



Home-Baking 

Healtk 

Economy and Wealth 




First Edition, 1905, Copyrighted 

Second Edition, 1906, Copyrighted 

Third Edition, 1908, Copyrighted 

Fourth Edition, 1909, Copyrighted 

Fifth Edition, 1912, Copyrighted 



By 
W. Fillmore Eastman, Pres. 

National Pure Food Health Club. 



Revised and Enlarged n „,„ 

6 PRICE, $1.25 



"3 



;CriAMir,4d 4 



Some of The Reasons Why Every Cake Maker 
Should Use "The Eastman System." 

CONFIDENCE. 

It makes rough roads easy. It is practical. It is a self-teacher 
and guide for the professional and novice alike. 

MATERIALS. 
It lias a chapter on all the materials to be used, which is educa- 
tional. The chemistry is right to be healthful. 

COLD OVEN. 

The chapter on the oven is a revelation to the housewife. 

All cakes are started in a cold oven. Fuel is saved and failures 
are p re vented. 

PURE FOOD CAKES. 

The cakes made by " The Eastman System" are pure food cakes. 
No baking powders are used in them. There may be cheap imita- 
tions, but there are no substitutes if you would be healthy. 
BAKING POWDER HABIT. 

This book will forever cure you of the baking powder habit. It 
tells you how to do your own measuring and mixing and save 
dollars, and, what is worth still more, save your health. 

NO EXPERIENCE. 

Men, women and children succeed with this book. Knowledge 
of baking not necessary ; the book teaches all. 
MOLDS NOT GREASED. 

The Improved Van Deusen cake molds are used by this system. 
They require no greasing for any cake, and are always sanitary 
and healthful. 

They are well known, being. used by all expert cake makers 
everywhere. Prices are reasonable for the complete family set, 

The book and measuring spoon will be sent to any address in 
U. S. or Canada, for $1.80 by the author. 

Rt member this book is a complete guide on "cake, bread and 
pits," by a food specialist. The new icings and the "Whole Wheat 
bread formula" are alone worth many times the cost of the book. 

The Supplement on Health is a large addition to this valuable 
book. The cost by mail for the book alone is $1.35. Or if more 
central, you may send to the National Headquarters, at 1G0 N. 
Fifth Ave., Chicago, 111. 




W. FILLMORE EASTMAN 



INTRODUCTION 



W/'l- ARE now sending forth the fifth edition of this guide on 
home baking. How to make Pure Food cake.-, bread and 
pies has stirred to its depths the home-life wherever it has en- 
tered. As cake, bread and pics arc, in most homes, three life essen- 
tials, this book lias helped to solve this problem as no other one has. 
Calls foi it in German and Swedish languages indicate it has come 
to fill a universal want in every good home. Tin Cold Oven System 
and the Anti-baking Powder Movement has created a profound enthu- 
siasm wherever this hook has entered. Believing the time is ripe 
for still larger results to be obtained in advancing the home, the 
author has revised and enlarged the scope of this book by adding a 
"Supplement Department" on Health and J loir to Promoti it in the 
Home. 

Retail price by mail. $1 .35. 

Address the Publishers at Dayton, Ohio, or the Author, 160 N. 
Fifth Ave. ; Chicago, 111. 




• BANtil' 1:1 w I'l 11 DE \'i ii. ' 

n i l- poisoned with adulterations of all kinds, (/«'*•< tliuu 

,..,( ,1, ,„•/., to h. a!'!,. This I,,,, J; will help remove the* 



blinded t" tlieir 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

PAGES 

How to make a pure food cake 12-36 

a How to select the right material. 
b How to combine it in proper form. 
c How to manage the oven. 

How to manage the oven 22-25 

Cold oven to start with; low temperature during the raising. 
Baking heat never applied until the cake is raised. Study 
this chapter. 

Cake flour discussed 15, 1 ' 

Bread-making flour 62-65 

Sugar, cane and beet 17 

I taking powders dangerous 17, 18, 19 

Putting of the cake together 20 

All butter cakes are stirred until smooth. All sponge cakes are 

folded. 

The old and new way to make cake. Illustrated 25-33 

Batters and doughs — how raised 33-35 

No one should try to make cake by the "Eastman System" until 

they have studied and mastered this chapter. Here you will 

learn the principle of raising batters. 

Pules to be observed 35, 36 

Snell's flavoring powders and white spices pure 19, 20 

See full-page illustration 165 

CAKE EECEIPTS. 
(a) Sponge Cakes. 

Angel Eood 38 

Sunshine 38 

Queen Orange 39 

(6) Butter Calces. 

Golden Loaf 41 

Dark Spice 41 

Golden Layer 41 

White Spi,c 41 

Silver Loaf 42 

The Presided Leaf Cake 42 

Chocolate Leaf Cake, No. 1 A?> 

Chocolate Loaf ( lake, No. 2 43 

Devil's Food Layer Cake 5P 

Pound Cake 5< 

Dutch Apple Cake 4< 

Pino Apple Cake 47 

Water Melon Cake 44 

Rainbow Cake 4. p > 

These last two are most beautiful cakes. They will show how 
much of an artist you are. 



PAGES 

Walnut Loaf Cake 47 

Ribbon Cake (3 layer) 48 

Marble Cake 49 

See Note for White Marble Cake 50 

Peanut Butter Cake 50 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 50 

Caramel Layer Cake 51 

One Egg Cake 51 

Fruit Cakes. 

White Fruit Cake 45 

Molasses Fruit Cake 46 

Wedding Fruit Cake (double size) 56 

Miscellaneous. 

Molasses Ginger Bread 52 

Peach Short Cake 52 

Jelly Roll 52 

Chocolate Macaroons 53 

Queen Eclairs 53 

Lady Fingers 53 

Frostings and Fillings. 

White Enamel Icing 57 

Yellow Frosting 57 

White Rose Glace 57 

Soft Boiled Icing 57 

Marsh Mallow Icing 58 

Caramel Icing 58 

Eggless Icing 59 

Chocolate Icing 59 

Plain Frosting 59 

Glace Frosting 59 

Chocolate Glace 60 

Fig Filling 60 

Strawberry Filling 60 

Strawberry Shortcake 60 

Cocoanut Filling 60 

Peanut Butter Filling 61 

Almond Filling 61 

Custard Filling 61 

Walnut Filling, see page 48 

Cookies and Doughnuts. 

Oat Meal Cookies 51 

Bert Snell Cookies 54 

Molasses Cookies 54 

Doughnuts 55 

Ginger Snaps 55 

How to Make a Loaf of Bread. 

Mixing the sponge 65, 66 

Potato yeast 66, 67 

How to set potato sponge 67 



PAGES 

How to make potato bread G7 

How to make salt-rising broad 68 

How to make bread without yeast or hops 69 

Boston Brown Bread, No. 1 t; 1 .) 

Boston Brown Bread, No. 2 69 

Parker House Rolls 70 

French Rolls 70 

Light Rolls 70 

M ill; Bread with Sponge 71 

( rraham and Rye Bread 71 

Graham Bread 71 

Graham Puffs 71 

How to make Date ( reins -. . . 72 

How to make Bread St icks 72 

How to make Health Bread from whole wheat flour 72, 73 

< ream of Tartar and Soda Biscuits 73 

Eiderdown Biscuits , . 73, 74 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes 74 

A mold Steam Cooker. 

The best way to cook is to use the "Arnold Steam Cooker." It can be 

ordered of us, and is made in three sizes, with three compartments. Prices 

for 3, 4, and 5-gallon cookers, at the factory, f. o. b., Rochester, N. Y. : 
3-gallon, $3; 4-gallon, $4; 5-gallon, $5. The largest size is most generally 
used and is most satisfactory for all purposes, such as canning or cooking 
a ham or turkey. For description, see pages 75, 76. 

How to make a pie . 77 

Puff or flaky pie crust 77 

Paste with suet 78 

Olive oil pie crust 78 

Fine grained pie crust 7^ 

How to make mince meat 79 

Mince Pie 79 

Lemon Pie 79 

Custard Pie 80 

Cocoanut Pie v " 

Apple Pie 80 

Peach Pie SI 

( her rv Pie 81 

Rhubarb Pie 81 

Sweet Potato Pie s l 

Pumpkin Pie 81 

I tanbury's 82 

Review of .Marian Harland on Cake Making S3-85 

"Baking Powders Doomed" $ ,; '•" , 

Be sure and read this chapter. It will do you goud. 

SUPPLEMENT ON HEALTH 91-134 

Chapter One — The Human Body and How to Care For It. 

Chapter Two— How to Be Healed. 

Chapter Three — Law on Healing. 

Chapter Four -Our Message io tie Sick. 



PAGES 

Health Chapters ia5 

Best Aids to the Complexion 135 

Be Methodical 136-138 

Wanted, "Pure Food Health Club" Organizers 138 

Instructions to Workers 138 

The Irrepressible Conflict 139-148 

Constitution and By-laws 148-151 

Club Programme 152 

Some Hints for the Hostess 153 

Style of the Dinner Table 154-155 

Poem— The Bravest Battle 155 

How to Organize a "Pure Food Health Club" 156 

Order of Business and Respousive Reading for Local Clubs 157-159 

Testimonials 151,160-163 

The Eastman Combined Measuring Spoon 164 

SnelPs Renowned Flavoring Powders 165 




'HE CAKE MOLDS ALWAYS GIVE A LIGHT CAKE AND KEQUIRE NO GREASING FOB INY KIND OF CAKE 



"The making of the cake, the heating of the oven, and the bak- 
ing. Nay, you must stay the cooling, too, or you may chance to 
burn your mouth." — Shakespeare. 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD 

CAKE. 



1st. How to Provide Suitable Materials. 
2d. How to Put It Together. 
Sd. How to Manage Your Oven 





Science is exact knowledge. To have this exact knowledge, in 
providing suitable material for a cake, in putting a cake together, 
and in the management of your oven according to the laws of heat 
where applied to the material brought together for a cake, is to be 
scientific in your method and therefore successful. 

In all civilized countries women have given abundant proof that 
they are by nature essentially artistic, and by intuition often su- 
perior to men, but I think it must be generally conceded that with 
a few exceptions they are less scientific. This side of woman's 
nature has often been sadly neglected in her education. The ln- 

12 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 13 

fluence of tradition and superstition along family lines in domestic 
economy in many instances, makes the pressure from the past that 
must be met and overcome, seem very great. Women need to study 
domestic science as men study political science, to learn the laws 
that govern and control. Old methods of cooking in general, and 
of making a cake in particular, are being scrutinized and revised in 
our day as never "before. For this reason most cook books that 
have heretofore been published are about as valuable a guide to 
any lady in the study of domestic science or food values as iEsop's 
fables or a last year's almanac. These cook books are full of things 
that used to be taken for granted, but have since been examined 
and proved beyond a question to be false, therefore wrong in prin- 
ciple and practice. If there has been progress made in the mode 
of locomotion and in the production of farming implements, there 
has also been progress made in domestic science and in the produc- 
tion of household utensils built upon scientific principles, that in 
the hands of the intelligent woman must completely revolutionize 
her household duties. 

If our grandmothers could wake up from that dreamless sleep 
that kisses down their eyelids still, and step into the modern kitchen 
or dining room in a modern home and behold its equipment, they 
would be inclined to the opinion of the old lady who had never seen 
a railroad train but who was eager to see one before she died. Her 
son said to her: "Mother, I will take you up town today and we 
will go upon the hill yonder, about the time the train comes in, 
and will take a seat near where we can have a full view of it as it 
comes around the curve to the station ;" and when it was in full 
sight she threw up her hands in great astonishment and exclaimed: 
"The works of man are more wonderful than the works of God." 
God made the material that these modern equipments of the home 
are made from and established the laws that govern and control suc- 
cess, and He put us here to study, learn and obey them, if we 
would be successful and happy. 

The problems that confront the American housewife of today are 
therefore entirely different to those of former generations. With 
the keen discipline of the intellect of our day our standards of ex- 



\A HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

cellence have changed. With the consuming craze of our day to 
get rich and become millionaires, has come the fearful deluge of 
adulterated foods and breadstuffs. With this the modern cook and 
housewife has to contend. How to discriminate between the pure 
and adulterated and eliminate the latter in providing suitable ma- 
terial for a cake, as well as in the other household economics, the pru- 
dent and thoughtful woman has to do. 

How to make a pure food cake in our day, is a graver problem 
for the housewife to solve than it was in our grandmother's day. 
In our grandmother's day the "get rich quick" baking powder com- 
panies were unknown. This can be also said of the meat packing- 
house companies. Our meats are nothing like as wholesome, pure 
and free from germs of disease as when our hams and sausages 
were home cured. 

THREE THINGS TO KNOW. 

In making a pure food cake there are three things that are ab- 
solutely necessary for a woman to know if she would be successful. 
It was Jesus Christ who said to Martha of Bethany, that "one thing 
was needful," but He was not talking to the ladies of our day about 
making a pure food cake; if He had, He certainly would have said 
there are three things needful. First I want to emphasize the im- 
portance of providing suitable material. Second, the importance 
of knowing how to put it together, and third, of knowing how to 
manage the oven in connection with the laws of heat. Regarding 
the first thing needful I want to speak of the flour, sugar, cream 
of tartar and soda versus baking powder, so-called, and the pure 
fruit flavoring put in powdered sugar, instead of the alcoholic ex- 
tracts so commonly used. Most ladies know if they want a good 
suit they must have good material as well as have the work 
well executed. If you w r ant to build a good house you must have 
good material as well as a competent mechanic; but the moment 
they think of making or building a cake, they seem to forget that 
the same law governs the final result as in the other two instance-. 
They often ask themselves: "How cheap can I make it," and then 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 15 

they wonder why the gods are against them, or as they sometimes 
say: "1 don't have good luck." All housewives know if they want 
good bread they must have good bread flour, but only a few know 
the difference between bread flour and pastry flour made for cakes. 
They seem to think that if flour will make good bread it should 
make good cake, whereas the qualities sought in a good cake are 
entirely different to those found in the best of bread. 

A lady of age, wisdom, and experience in cooking, said to me 
the other day: "When I was a girl growing up in my mother's 
home, I was considered a good cake maker, but now I can't make 
cake. The same knowledge that commanded success then brings 
only disaster now. Can you explain to me why this is?" I re- 
plied: I want to put you on the witness stand before the class. 
Don't you think you know as much now as you did then? Answer, 
"yes." Don't you think that your long years of experience has 
added to your knowledge, and that your judgment is better today 
than it was then? She answered "yes." Then if you are not 
willing to admit that you know less today than you did then, the 
fault cannot be in you, and if not in you, it must be in your ma- 
terial. The flour and sugar used to make cake with when you 
were a girl were manufactured entirely different to what they are 
today. By the old buhr milling process they ground the whole of 
the wheat up into flour. By the modern patent roller process, in 
order to cater to the demand for a white loaf of bread, they take 
out the so-called aleuron layer and all of the heart of the wheat, 
and furnish to the public for the most part the dry and starchy 
part of the wheat alone. This changed condition for milling bread 
flour has created a demand for flour made from the whole of the 
wheat, and by this method to restore to you what you have lost 
by the changed conditions. In the changing of our frontier settle- 
ments from Ohio and the Central States to west of the Missouri river 
it has also changed the wheat growing belt very materially. Less 
wheat is raised in the Central States, and because of this many of 
those mills that once manufactured only soft winter wheat flour, arc 
now compelled to rely upon the great grain growing belt west of 
the Missouri river to supply their wheat. This wheat being raised 



16 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

in the high and dry altitude, has changed the character of the flour 
output wherever it is milled However excellent this flour may be 
for bread and rich in protein, it is wholly unsuitable for delicate 
cake. We must, therefore, rely on the flour mills located in the 
Central and Northern States, where the soft winter wheat is still 
raised in sufficient quantities to keep the mills running to supply 
this demand of every intelligent housewife for suitable pastry flour. 
This kind of flour will impart the life, moisture and delicacy so 
characteristic of itself to every cake in, which it is used. 

The spring and hard winter wheat flours are only adapted for white 
bread. They are too dry for delicate cake. Soft winter wheat flour 
in some plates is lacking in gluten. The ordinary blended flour on 
the market has an excess of gluten. For an all-round family flour, 
suitable for cake, bread and pies, the blend should be only 20 per 
cent, spring with 80 per cent, soft winter wheat flour. This makes 
an ideal blend for our system of baking, and anyone who is willing 
to go to the trouble to buy the two kinds, can blend their own. But 
where it is possible for you to buy it blended by the mill, it is best. 

The conditions of winter wheat growing and of milling it must 
always vary ; hence there will always be on the market a variety 
of pastry (lours, no two brands of which will agree or work exactly 
the same. It is, therefore, important to know what pastry flour 
will work the best with the recipes that you intend to use. You 
need to remember that the same brand of flour will be sometimes 
drier than at other times, hence will take more moisture or less 
flour than the recipe may call for. This applies to sack flour and 
not to flour thai is in air-tight boxes. 

Having decided on the flour, the next question to be considered 
is wliat kind of sugar shall I use. This does not mean, as some 

Note.— Pastry Hour is always made from soft winter wheat. The price of this in some 1. alirii - is 
mi higher than bread flour 

Where it is possible we have a Hour made to go with mir "System." It is often on s:ile in th w>wn, acd 
should alwaj a i»- used. 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 17 

ladies seem to think, shall I use powdered or granulated sugar. 
The question should be, shall I use cane or beet sugar, and as the 
two are often mixed at the sugar factories, how am I to tell what 
sugar is pure cane? There are only these two families of sugar, 
and the beet is made to very closely imitate the cane sugar. Beet 
sugar may do for sweetening vegetables or fruit, but it will not do 
for making jelly or a good cake. If you have any doubt about 
your sugar being beet try it on an "angel food" cake. If it shrinks 
from the mold at the top and settles very much and is sticky, do 
not blame your luck for not having a good cake, but rather your 
intelligence or lack of care in selecting cane sugar. Every time 
you use beet sugar for cake or jelly, you will get beat, and if .trying 
to make an angel cake you will always get a swamp angel. 

While a few years ago there were only the two families of sugar, 
known as beet and cane, and the lines on these were distinctly drawn, 
now the third class is added by a mixture of the first two. For 
delicate cake work or jelly making this last is about as fatal to 
success as whole beet sugar. 

Large quantities of beet sugar are imported annually from Ger- 
many, and by the sugar refiners mixed with the cane sugar, running 
all the way from forty to seventy per cent beet, and this is sold 
for cane sugar during the cunning and preserving season. It is 
claimed by the sugar factories to be necessary to meet the American 
demand for sugar. But it should be labeled, so buyers might know 
what they are getting. If bought in the winter it is more likely to 
be pure cane sugar. 

In making a cake it is always worth something to know you are 
right in your selection of material if you would command success. 
Our formulas call for granulated sugar because it is more uniform 
in strength than any other, and it takes less of it. 

BAKING POWDERS ARE DANGEROUS. 

A person must be very thoughtless and unobserving that has not 

impressed with the <trenuous efforts being put forth in most 

states and in foreign countries to prevent the adulteration of foods 

by legislative enactments, and by general education to discourage 

their use. The term "baking powder" is another name for adul- 

Note I'll.- report of tin' Pure l'' 1 Commission ol Clllnois (See report Jan., 1905) etates they 

made <■>( 69 different bakii rhej 'l all adulterated 100 per 

cent. None pure. etc. 



18 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE EOOD CAKE. 



teration of acid phosphate and soda, or cream of tartar and soda. 
The pure food laws prevent the adulteration of the above and then 
allow them to be sold as such. Should the baking powder concerns 
undertake this they would all land in the penitentiary. But when 
they take a little of this valuable material for making a pure food 
cake and for other baking purposes, and put it in an empty can, 
and fill it up with other cheap ingredients, and often positively 
injurious to health, and label it "Baking Powder," they are per- 
mitted in most states to sell it, and thus evade the penalty of the 
pure food laws. There is no kind of baking where the recipe calls 
for baking powder, but what it can be done very much better by 
the pure cream of tartar and soda. Let it be remembered and 
understood, then, that if you want a pure food cake and wish to 



encourage the enforcement of pure food laws that you should for- 
ever banish from your larder all "baking powder" products. There 
is nothing that any lady can make with baking powder but 
she can make very much better without. I will give you three 
reasons in brief for discontinuing the use of all baking powder in 
your cooking and baking. First, I think you will be a much better 
citizen to discourage all efforts to drug your family by adulterating 
cream of tartar and soda, by whatever name it is called, and in 
most cases your family will have better health. Second, it will 
cost you but very little money annually to buy your cream of tartar 
and soda, whereas most families find their baking powder bill quite 
considerable. Third, you will have very much better cake, more 
delicate, and keep moist very much longer, because of the absence of 
gypsum, corn starch, rice flour, and alum found in baking powder. 
By using our measuring spoon, (see cut.) composed of 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 19 

quarter, half, and whole teaspoon, you can always get the right 
measure and proportions of cream of tartar and soda to insure suc- 
cess, and thus remove all excuse for resorting to baking powder 
companies to do your measuring and mixing, and the added danger 
to health and expense to the consumer. When the baking powder 
trust can afford to pay $10,000,000 to one man for simply the use 
of his name, does it not look to a cook up in a tree that there are 
unholy profits here? 

The attitude of the American people toward baking powder rep- 
resentatives is for the most part that of the cook up in the tree who 
has fled from them in dismay, or of meekly submitting to use their 
adulterated and poisonous goods as a necessity, and thereby con- 
senting to be bound hand and foot and gagged. If you wish to 
be free, would it not be better to stand your ground and join the 
army of pure food cooks? While baking with cream of tartar and 
soda is much the oldest art, and once was well known and in gen- 
eral use, by a general conspiracy, it seems to have been eliminated 
very largely from the technical teaching of our day until it is in 
danger of becoming a lost art, like the art of embalming of the an- 
cient nations. It must be apparent to all that the prominent endorse- 
ments of such "get rich quick" concerns as baking powder manu- 
facturers, could only secure them by paying the price for such en- 
dorsements. 

In the last place, if you want a pure food cake, and want the 
real fruit flavor, and want the most of it for your money, you will 
refuse to buy and use the cheap liquid extracts sold in most grocery 
stores, and insist on your grocer furnishing you the pure fruit and 
nut flavors in powdered form, manufactured in Snell's Scientific 
Laboratories, Chicago, 111., for people that want the best. They 
are flavorings which have as their merits Delicious Flavor, Purity, 
and Economy combined. They also manufacture the spices in the 
powdered form, such as Cloves, Cinnamon, Nutmeg and Ginger. 
With these goods you can make white spice cake, and they are unex- 
celled for pickling fruits, etc. 

Alcohol costs $4.00 per gallon and can do your cake no possible 
good, for it evaporates as soon as the heat is applied to it, If you 



20 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

would use the best liquid extracts, they are put up in alcohol, and 
you are obliged to pay a good deal for your alcohol to get a little 
flavoring for your cake or your pudding. If you are looking for the 
cheapest liquid extracts, they are put up in water, and for all the 
benefit you will derive from their use you might as well use dish- 
water, as most persons can testify. Modern science has discovered 
many ways for compounding drugs and preserving the flavors of 
fruits and nuts without the use of alcohol. Alcohol is good to burn, 
and may be useful in case of snake bite, but I am sure its use will 
not help your cake, and its use should, therefore, be discouraged. 

By the Snell process the cost of alcohol is completely eliminated. 

Snell's flavoring powders and spices are put up in different sized 
jars for people who demand the best. As it is so difficult to get 
flavoring and spices in our day that are pure and of standard 
strength, the author takes pleasure in recommending these goods 
to consumers, whether they be large or small. After many years' 
experience in the use of these goods, and many other kinds on the 
market, I want to say there may be many imitations, but there are 
no substitutes. If you have not used them, try them. If you have 
used them, and know their value, tell your neighbors. If your 
grocer does not carry these goods, and will not order them for you, 
write direct to Snell's Scientific Laboratories, No. 56 Fifth Ave., Chi- 
cago, 111. ,and mention this book, and they will quote you price-. 

In the second place, we are to consider the putting of the cake 
together. 

TUTTING OF THE CAKE TOGETHER. 

There are two ways of studying any subject, one is to 
view it outwardly in its general aspect and proportion, the other is 
to analyze or separate it into its component parts. In the study 
of the structure of society T once thought there were many kinds 
of people, but upon more mature thought I have learned that there 
are only two kinds of people in the whole world, viz.: good people 
and bad people. It is true that there are many surface or artificial 
distinctions, but these two are structural and organic. When I 

NOTE— Snell's new number is 160 N. Fifth Ave . Chi< i 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 21 

learned this important truth, that there were only two kinds of 
people, good and bad, and that all belonged to one or the other of 
these two kinds, or classes, I had a grasp of this subject that I 
never had before. I would have you study the subject of cake 
making in the same way. When you learn that there are only 
two kinds of cake, viz. : good and bad cake, and that all cakes 
belong to one or the other of these two classes, and that what makes 
one good and the other bad is not artificial distinction, but struc- 
tural and organic, as in the case of society at large, you have 
learned an important truth about cake making. In addition to 
this I would have you understand that all the different kinds of 
cake belong to just two families, the butter cake and the sponge 
family. 

SPONGE AND BUTTER CAKES. 

All cakes that have butter in have the general character- 
istics of the butter cake family, and belong to it. And all 
that do not have butter in them have the general characteristics of 
the sponge family, and belong to it. As in the family home, each 
child takes an individual name, to distinguish it from the other 
children, and yet all the children have the characteristics of that 
family, so in the butter cake family, and in the sponge family, the 
different cakes, like the children of the home, take individual names 
to distinguish one from the other, and to indicate its individuality. 
The first thing to ask is to what family does this cake belong, hav- 
ing determined this, we not only know its general characteristics, 
but we know the method of treatment that has produced it. All 
butter cakes are stirred in a circular manner, being careful to pursue 
this course until the batter is smooth; all sponge cakes are folded 
toward the center, and up, being careful to only fold until the sugar 
and flour are dissolved. Every stroke you give a sponge cake more 
than enough to dissolve the sugar and flour toughens the cake and 
reduces its lightness. I think I can safely say without fear of being 
called in question, by those who have tasted our cake, that it is 
not only superior, but a distinct family of cake from all others. 
In what respect are all our cakes alike? All regular size cakes are 



22 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

alike in this respect, that they all take one cup and a quarter of gran- 
ulated cane sugar. These two families of cake are bound together 
by the same amount of sugar in all, but here their likeness ends. 
All the butter cakes of usual size are alike in this, that they take 
two cups and a half of pastry flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
and one-half cup of butter, and one-half teaspoon of soda; all the 
sponge cakes are alike in this that they take one cup of pastry flour 
and one-half teaspoon cream of tartar. 

The names of the cakes in these two families, and their differ- 
ences, will be studied in connection with the formulas in their 
proper order. 

HOW TO MANAGE THE OVEN. 

In the third place we will consider the management of the oven. 
But to do this we must first take up the question of fuel. Artificial 
gas is probably the best to bake with, because the easiest controlled. 
Natural gas I would class second and gasoline third, while coal and 
wood I would put fourth and fifth choice, because it is harder to 
control the heat. To be able to control your heat is absolutely 
essential for successful cake baking. To those who burn wood or 
coal I would say make up a fire about like you would to bake bread, 
burn it out into coals, then either open your oven or turn on your 
cold air draft and cool it off. Now you should have heat enough 
from the coals in the fire box, and the steel or casting, to raise 
your cake without baking it. When it is nearly raised a light fire 
can be made to bake and brown it ; with a little experience you will 
soon learn how much fire you need in the first place to take your 
cake through the raising period, without baking it, and how much 
you need at the close to bake it without burning it. By pursuing 
this method you will be able to control your heat in nearly the same 
manner as gas. Whatever your fuel may be, remember that many 
a good cake has been spoiled by ha T ./ng too much heat. All cakes 
should be started as nearly as possible in a cold oven, and given a 
raising period before they are baked. If you raise your bread before 
you bake it, why should you not treat your cake just as fairly? 

NOTE— Baking with an Electric oven we have found to be ideal. We regard Gas and Electricity the 
future rivals for iiublic favor in cooking and baking. 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 23 

The traditional statements heretofore printed in all cook books, 
setting forth that the oven must be hot to receive and bake a 
cake, as in the case of bread, are positively erroneous and mis- 
leading. 

ALL CAKES STARTED IN A COLD OVEN. 

Not only do we start all our cakes in a cold oven, but 
have kept them for eighteen hours in a mold before placing in an 
oven, and they raised more than ever before. Inseparably con- 
nected with this has grown up the old-school idea that the baking 
period covers the entire time that the cake is in the oven. To over- 
come this popular delusion and separate the raising and baking 
period is not only necessary for the largest measure of success, but 
to understand the laws of heat that govern the two periods. I give 
all my domestic science pupils this rule to guide them; all butter 
cakes should begin to raise in ten or fifteen minutes after being 
placed in the oven. All sponge cakes should show signs of raising 
in twenty to twenty-five minutes; if they do they will pass the 
raising period in the proper limits of time. If they do not begin 
to raise within this time, you should increase your heat, being 
careful not to get too much. We allow all butter loaf cakes thirty- 
five to forty minutes to raise and all loaf sponge cakes twenty-five 
to thirty minutes. This does not apply to layer cakes, which will 
raise and bake in less time. By confounding the raising and the 
baking period, in the popular mind, many fallacies have sprung 
up in regard to the danger of spoiling the cake if the heat should 
be interrupted. To show that the laws of heat governing the raising 
and baking period affect them very differently, I have but to remind 
you that you can not injure a cake by diminishing or increasing 
the heat, providing you do not get enough heat to cook the egg in 
the batter before it has raised to the required lightness; if you do, 
you have stopped the raising period and from now on the heat must 
not be interrupted or taken off. The heat is the power that forces 
the batter up to the baking period line, and this power must be 
kept there intact, until the batter is baked through so it can stand 
up; for if the heat is taken off or reduced, the batter will certainly 



24 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

go down to where the power is, as the apple will fall from the 
tree to the ground. The law of gravitation controls the apple and 
the cake alike. If you find your heat is increasing too fast during 
the raising period, you must reduce it, or you will spoil your cake; 
if you find your heat has increased too much during the baking 
period you must not reduce it or you will spoil your cake. It is 
far better to cover up your cake and do the best you can to protect 
it from the excessive heat than to reduce the heat by turning it off. 
This clearly demonstrates that the law of heat governing the rais- 
ing period in its relation to the cake is very different to the baking 
period. In the first case if you have too much heat, you must 
reduce it or you will spoil your cake; in the second place, if you 
have too much heat, you must not reduce it, or you will spoil your 
cake. Therefore, to speak of the raising and baking period as 
one and the same, being governed by the same laws of heat, is 
erroneous, and until this error is cleared up in the public mind no 
progress can be made in the production of better cake. 

I use, and recommend to others, the celebrated Van Deusen cake 
molds, which require no greasing for any kind of cake. The ma- 
terial used must be proportioned differently for cakes 'baked in this 
way than if baked in the old-time greased mold. Less material is 
needed, for the batter can be used very much thinner, and hence 
secure a very much more delicate and healthful cake than by the 
old way. All cakes made by the method taught in the following 
pages are justly esteemed more healthful and economical. In fact, 
all of these cakes are made of the purest and best material and 
afford the most nourishing food in a concentrated form. 



ALL OUR CAKES SETTLE UP. 

As all cakes will settle when they cool off, if removed while they 
are warm, or if baked in a greased mold, they will settle down and 
make what is called a sad cake; but when they are inverted, and 
allowed to remain until they are cold, they will always settle up 
and will give you a light cake. Exceptions: Fruit cakes that are 
too heavy with fruit to invert and nut cakes where there is likely 

-%. .1 . Layer rakes are usually made so thin they do nut need Inverting to cool and may be 
removed uhilo hot. 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 25 

to be oil from the nuts to reach the sides of the molds, and cakes 
that are under baked, or where too much shortening has been used, 
so they will not stand their own weight, should be set upright and 
never inverted. For all butter and sponge cakes, to be able to 
invert them with safety, is the ideal way of preparing the cake for 
the cake chest. Remember, if cake baking is to be a science, as 
well as an art, you must banish the idea that it is governed by luck 
or chance, and understand that it is governed by law, as much as 
the raising of a flower, or a hill of corn. The advantage to be 
derived by attending a domestic science school where these truths 
are taught that control success, and have so much to do with our 
home and family life, must be apparent to all. 



THE OLD AND NEW WAY OF MAKING CAKE. 

THE OLD WAY. 

In the old way of making a cake the first step in the perform- 
ance was to make a good, strong fire that would insure the oven 
being hot at the time the cake was ready to be placed therein. In all 
the cook books that have been printed for several decades the rule 
has always been to emphasize this point. Parrot like, writers of 
cookery have found it so much easier to say what others have said 
than to investigate the laws that govern and control success, and 
be guided thereby. After the fire is made ready the next step was 
to consider the environment of the kitchen. To make a good cake 
involved so much mystery and uncertainty that it wrought the 
housewife up to the highest nervous tension. Under the circum- 
stances it became easy to believe that noise and heavy walking 
across the floor would have a deleterious effect upon the cake. In 
fact, from the time the lien laid the egg until the cake was cold 
there was danger of spooks and hobgoblins getting you or the cake. 
At this point every anxious and prudent housewife would inspect 
the nursery to see where the children were. She either put them 
to bed or tied on their little bonnet- and sent them to the neighbors 




• THE OLD WAV OF MAKING CAKE" 

•Do yo u ""int in make my cake drop?" 






HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 27 

lo play "while mamma makes a cake." It was further stipulated 
with the rest of the household that they must not come into the 
kitchen during the performance lest they "make the cake drop." 
The next step is to separate the eggs and prepare the rest of the 
material for the batter. 

If any of the readers of this chapter ever purchased a lottery 
ticket or took a chance at a raffle, you will recall what peculiar 
feelings of anxiety filled your mind when you fixed on the number 
that was to decide your fate. You knew full well there were so 
many chances against you to one in your favor, but you were willing 
to take this chance. In this spirit and attitude of mind the work 
of making a cake in the old way is begun. One lady belonging 
to the old school once said to me that she never had the courage 
to undertake making a cake but once in six months, and then it 
produced such nervous prostration that it took her six months to 
recover. Think of a man being married to a wife of this kind, and 
wanting good home-made cake; he only getting cake twice a year, 
and then having a sick wife between times. Is it any wonder the 
divorce mills have been kept busy? 

The teaching of domestic science schools and the cook books here- 
tofore published, have often been so vague and erroneous on this 
subject that they must be held responsible for this popular delusion 
that the process is governed wholly by luck and not by well-defined 
law. How common it is to hear a lady say "I always have luck," or 
"I don't have luck in making a cake." Reader, if you belong to 
the old school and still believe this way, it will be only natural that 
you should think that the materials that you are to use, the manner 
of putting them together, the mold the cake is to be baked in, and 
the management of your oven, have very little to do with the finished 
result. If luck governs and you have success, you will have it in 
spite of all this, and if you are foreordained from all eternity to 
fail, you cannot prevent it, do what you will. If you had an 
engagement to make cake for some important social function, you 
never could be quite sure of it until the cake is finished, for you 
never could know before hand what your luck would be. How 
much like a lottery the old method must seem upon reflection to 



28 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

every one. The question of suitable material was rarely, if ever, 
considered under the circumstances. 

A lady in middle life who recently attended one of my classes 
said to me before the whole class: "I would hate to go to all the 
trouble you do to make a cake when they will eat it up right away." 
I said to her: "Do you make cake?" She replied: "I should say 
I do. I have been making cake these thirty years." I inquired: 
"How do you make cake?" She replied: "I take a pinch of this, 
a lump of that, a handful of the other, put it all together and stir 
it up. I make what I call a 'whack-up cake/ and it comes out 
right every time." I said to her: "Good, you belong to the old 
school." It must be confessed that the old school has produced 
some very excellent cooks who, by long experience, had their hand 
and eye so well educated that they could guess at proper proportions 
of material for a cake, and it was almost like measuring. But, 
where there was one who could do this successfully, there would be 
a thousand or more who would fail. This led to the conviction that 
what we need in order to procure a larger per cent of successful 
cooks and cake-makers is not to depend upon luck or guessing, but 
to measure your material and be accurate. It has been demon- 
strated that very much of the failure in cake making has been 
due to guessing and guessing wrong. I belong to the new school 
of thought, that teaches success is within the reach of every one 
who will conform to the laws that govern, and who will co-operate 
with the law, and not work against it, and hope to succeed. By the 
old method material is brought together in the batter for a cake 
out of that which is most convenient or accessible. Bread flour 
is used without any thought whether it is winter or spring wheat 
flour, or how it is milled. Sugar is used that may be in the larder 
without any thought whether it is pure or adulterated, or whether 
it is beet or cane sugar. Her "favorite baking powder is now taken 
down from the shelf, and two heaping teaspoonfuls sifted into the 
flour. The poor soul does not know (hat if she used pure cream 
of tartar and soda she could measure the teaspoons even, and save 
more than half. The next in order will be to apply to the batter 
in liberal doses the liquid extracts so commonly used. The process 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 29 

must be rushed through quickly for fear something will happen 
to it. The cake pan is now well greased, the batter is put into it, 
and it is rushed into the oven, which is hot enough for baking 
bread, for have not the cook books all said put it in "at once." 
and see that the oven is hot. So much depends upon luck by this 
method that the feelings of the good housewife are now wrought 
up to the highest tension of anxiety. "If nobody comes to bother 
me," she mutters to herself, "I may have luck with this cake." 
Hark! There's a knock at the door. Her husband stands there 
with an armful of wood ready to come in to replenish the fire. 
He wants to help, but his good wife flies at him like a tiger in a 
rage, and says : "Don't you come in here or I'll take the rolling pin 
to you, for I am baking a cake, and do you want to make it fall?" 
Some of the old school authorities teach that if she looks into 
the oven for the first twenty minutes it will fan the cold air in and 
cause her cake to drop. During this time of anxious suspense about 
all the good wife can do is to stand on guard to keep offenders out 
of the kitchen. She has been taught to believe that any currents 
of air or any walking across the floor, or jarring, will cause her cake 
to drop, and write failure all over it. It is such a nervous strain. 
that men of the old regime hardly appreciate its significance. It 
is more fatal to domestic peace and happiness than the house clean- 
ing season. But, now the time is up and she ventures to look into 
the oven. She finds her cake baking and browning, but alas, the 
fire is declining, having exhausted its strength at the beginning, 
and her cake settles to the bottom of the pan. She jerks it out of 
the oven in a fit of rage and consigns it to the garbage can or 
tramps it under her. feet, and swears by the eternal she will never 
try to make another cake. But, after some reflection and the breath 
of cool air, she very wisely concludes that it is a bad resolution, 
and, like all others of its kind, it is better broken than kept, so 
she makes another trial. This time meeting with better success, 
though the table that evening was without cake. When it comes 
out of the oven she generally takes it out of the pan while it is 
hot and allows it to settle together with its own weight, thus destroy- 
ing, in a measure, its lightness, or she turns it wrong side up on 
a napkin and sweats it out. The latter process being fully as bad. 



80 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

THE NEW WAY. 

The first thing a prudent person will do is to provide themselves 
with a measuring spoon, a kitchen spatula and a full set of Van 
Deusen cake molds that require no greasing for any kind of a cake. 
The next step is to select with wisdom and care all the materials 
that are to be used. She has made a careful study of her materials, 
and knows that there is an intimate relation according to the laws 
of chemistry between every part and the finished result. She under- 
stands the law of gravitation effects her cake batter while in the 
cake mold, the same as the falling of a sparrow. She uses formulas 
for the putting of her cake together that are rational and scientifi- 
cally perfect in the proportions. If she is making a sponge cake, 
she knows she must keep her batter thin, and use less flour than 
the recipe calls for if that particular flour will make it thick. If 
she is making a butter cake she knows the milk prescribed is used 
to thin the batter to the proper consistency. If the particular 
flour that she used leaves the batter too thick to get a delicate cake, 
she thins it with more milk. Now she places the batter in the cake 
mold, the children are standing by watching mamma and taking 
their first lesson in the culinary art. If they want to play, or her 
husband wants to come in with an armful of wood, or wants bo 
drive nails in the wall, it has no terrors for her. All can go mer- 
rily on, and she whistles and sings at her work. She places her 
hands on the slides of the mold to prevent them from jarring out, 
and pounds the batter down in the mold on the table many times 
before she places it in the oven. 

She belongs to the new school of thought in cookery, that advo- 
cates pounding children less and cakes more. She knows by prac- 
tical test that it makes the cakes better, and we believe that it will 
make most children better; and all this means a happier home. 
Now she puts the cake either into a cold oven, or as near so as 
possible, instead of a hot oven, as in the old way. She has learned 
from studying the laws of heat that a cake needs a distinct and 
definite raising period in a slow oven, and the strongest heat at the 
close during the baking period. She has learned that if she man- 
ages her oven according to this law that her cakes will raise very 




"THE 'NEW WAY' TO MAKE CAKE" 
Measure: list no baking powder; start all cakes iu a cold oven. 



32 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

much higher and be more delicate in texture; and that they will 
never fall or settle at the close, during the baking period, as in the 
old way of managing the oven. During the raising period she 
sees to it that she has enough heat to raise her sponge cakes within 
twenty-five to thirty minutes and her butter loaf cakes in thirty- 
five to forty minutes ; then she increases the heat slightly and bakes 
and browns them in fifteen or twenty minutes. All layer cakes 
are treated the same way, only the time for the raising and baking 
periods may be considerably shortened. While the cake is raising 
she opens the oven any time and looks at it, as she has no fear or 
dread of the result. She sees clearly how the law of heat affects 
her batter quite different during the two periods. She keeps her 
cake from baking while it is raising to the required lightness by 
reducing the heat when it is necessary; but she never reduced the 
heat during the baking period, for she understands the power that 
forced the batter up to the baking period line had to overcome the 
law of gravitation ; and if she wishes her cake to stay up there until 
it is baked she must not reduce the heat. She sees the path clearly 
from beginning to end, when her cake is taken out of the oven 
and inverted ori the cooling table. Hence, she has no fear of spooks 
and hobgoblins affecting the finished result. She knows she can 
make a cake, and a good one, every time, and this makes not orAj 
the task a joy and delight to her, but it is contagious and spread/ 
through the whole family, and often through the neighborhood. 
She has learned that the little things make life, and the small 
things dilate into the great. The cake mold allows the air to cir- 
culate around the cake when it is cooling, and that prevents sweat- 
ing, and allows the cake to settle up instead of down, which always 
makes the cake light. She now removes the slides and takes the 
cake out with a knife, with the most bee tiful brown visible all 
over it. 

One man about sixty-five years of age stood listening to me talk 
one day about how to make a pure food cake. He went home and 
said to his wife: "We have been married for forty years, and you 
never made a cake I could cat without putting butter on it. I lis- 
tened to the Professor today, talking on oake baking, and I wish 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 33 

you could go down to the school and get some pointers." Like a 
good wife, she came and got the "pointers" and invested a few 
dollars in a working outfit that was modern and up to date. She 
went home and studied the new method diligently, and put same 
to a practical test, to the great joy and delight of her home. I 
did not hear from her for about two weeks, when, to my surprise, 
and delight, she brought to the class for my inspection a large and 
beautiful "angel food" wrapped up in a basket, like a mother would 
an infant, to keep it from taking cold. I said to her, "Is this your 
first cake?" She replied: "I should say not; I have been making 
cakes for my family ever since I was here, but this is my first angel 
food, and I thought it so nice I wanted you to see it." It was 
beautiful, and such a cake as all would admire. She reminded 
me of what her husband said when she came to learn the new 
way, and said it had produced a great change in their home life. 
Before he used to come late to his meals and make excuses for going 
down town at night. Now he came home regular to his meals, and 
she could hardly drive him down town at night with a shot gun. 
He said to his wife: "We never had such eating before you got 
to making these cakes" ; and she said to me : "You may believe it 
or not, but I want to assure you that we have been married forty 
years and now we are living our honeymoon over again." I chal- 
lenge any novelist to depict a romance more beautiful and more 
enduring in its effect upon the home life, than the preparation of a 
pure food cake and other pure food materials for home use. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS— HOW RAISED. 

Batters and doughs are quick bread mixtures. We have first a 
"poured" batter, second a "cake" batter, and third a "drop" batter. 
Doughs are divided under two heads, "soft" dough and "stiff" 
dough. Where yeast is not used in any of these, cream of tartar 
and soda should be used as a raising power. Cream of tartar is an 
acid salt prepared from the crystals called "argols." These form 



34 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

on the inside of wine casks and wine vats, and is, therefore, a fruit 
acid. Carbonate of soda is baking soda. When an acid is added to soda 
in the presence of water or heat, carbon dioxide is formed, producing 
effervescence. If the right proportions are brought together a chem- 
ical union is formed that will be neither acid nor alkali. All sodas 
are alkalies. When this chemical union is formed in batters it 
should always be neutral. If you have any doubt on this point, 
you can test it with litmus paper. For this purpose have on hand 
some blue and red litmus paper, which can be procured at any 
drug store. If it is acid, it will turn blue litmus paper red. If 
it is alkali, which indicates excessive soda, it will turn red litmus 
paper blue, but by using the original measuring spoon composed of 
a quarter, half and whole teaspoon, and taking your measures even, 
all difficulty of this kind may be avoided, and shatters the last 
vestige of excuse for using baking powders; for the reason com- 
monly urged is, that a chemist in his laboratory can measure it 
more accurately than a housewife, or a hotel cook. While sour 
milk can be used with soda successfully, but as most housewives 
do not know how acid the milk is, and have no litmus paper to 
test their batter to ascertain if it is neutral when the carbon dioxide 
is formed in the batter by the union of the two, it is always more 
safe to use cream of tartar and soda. Remember, always the pro- 
portion is two of cream of tartar to one of soda. The carbon dioxide 
formed in the batter from the union of these two when the heat is 
applied causes it to expand, and this makes your griddle cakes 
light and porous. As cream of tartar is only partly soluble without 
heat, little of the gas is set free until the mixture is put into the 
oven. It then comes off rapidly, filling the batter or dough with 
bubbles, and making it rise higher and still higher. As the gas 
expands the bubbles will stretch until the walls become thin. When 
all this gas is set free the heat of the oven should be increased from 
the raising period bo the baking period. Therefore, you need very 
little heat during the raising period to set this gas free. If you 
have too much heat, as you surely will if you put your cake into 
a hot oven, a crust will form and prevent the cake raising to the 
required lightness. Always have a slow oven for the raising period: 



HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 35 

but if this is continued too long the bubbles will break and allow 
the gas to escape and your cake to settle. If this occurs in either 
bread, biscuit or cake you will sacrifice its lightness. 

The foregoing chemical properties of pure cream of tartar and 
soda being true, is also true of baking powders. It therefore fol- 
lows that the teaching of all cook books heretofore (that you must 
put your cake into a hot oven like you would for bread baking) is 
fallacious, and has led to many failures in cake baking. Because 
of these errors in the cook books, and promulgated by teachers of 
cookery, that you need a hot oven to start your cake in, instead of 
a cold, or slow oven, as the author of this book teaches, there has 
been no progress in cake making hitherto. This is justly regarded as 
a great discovery the author has made, and is hailed with delight 
by thousands who have adopted this method. This introduces a 
new era in cake making. 



A FEW RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN CAKE BAKING. 

1. Eggs must be fresh and cold. 

2. In creaming butter and sugar the butter should be soft. Use 

a wooden spoon. 

3. Never use a greased mold. 

4. Never use baking powder. 

5. See that all utensils and materials are at hand before beginning 

your cake. 

6. Never use wine and brandies in baking and cooking, and 

thereby avoid the peril to others. 

7. When through with each utensil, wash and return to its place, 

and thus save time and avoid confusion. Always remem- 
ber that "order" is Heaven's first law. 

8. Never stir the milk into the creamed butter and sugar without 

the flour, as it will cause the butter to separate from the 
sugar and cause your cake to be coarse grained. 

9. Every lady should study until she masters the principle in- 

volved in raisins; batter with cream of tartar and soda. 



36 HOW TO MAKE A PURE FOOD CAKE. 

10. Always use water or sweet milk where cream of tartar is used. 

11. If layers bulge up irom the bottom of the pan while baking, 

you have too much heat. If this occurs while raising them 
puncture the gas with fork and let it out. 

12. How to tell when butter and sugar are creamed. Sugar must be 

all absorbed by the butter, so that when you smooth it 
down with your kitchen spatula it will look like plain white 
butter. 

13. If the layers are uneven, if removed from pan while hot you 

can set the pan on top of the cake right side up and put a 

weight on top and even the cake up before icing. It will 

not hurt it. 

The following formulas we have used successfully in our schools, 

and can recommend them to all who desire something that is both 

nutritious and healthful. As much depends upon the kind of cake, 

the flour used, the amount of shortening, and the altitude in which 

the cake is being baked, the rules given in this book are not to be 

followed blindly. Good judgment and brains must be mixed with 

every cake if you would have success. 

1TOTE — In the higher altitudes the time given for raising and baking these cakes must be increased. 



THE THINGS I MISS. 

AN easy thing, O Power Divine 
To thank Thee for these gifts of Thine ! 
For summer's sunshine, winter's snow, 
For hearts that kindle, thoughts that glow. 
But when shall I attain to this — 
To thank Thee for the things I miss? 
Had I, too, shared the joys I see, 
Would there have been a heaven for me? 
Could I have felt Thy presence near, 
Had I possessed what I held dear? 
My deepest fortune, highest bliss. 
Have grown perchance from things I miss. 
Sometimes there comes an hour of calm ; 
Grief turns to blessing, pain to balm ; 
A power that works above my will 
Still leads me onward, upward still ; 
And then my heart attains to this — 
To thank Thee for the things I miss. 

— Thomas Wentworth Higginson. 



37 



38 CAKE RECIPES. 



SPONGE CAKES. 

OUR IMPROVED ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of 8 fresh eggs, or one cup; 1 cup flour; y 2 teaspoonful 8nell s. 
Flavoring Powders; 1 teaspoon of salt; 1 % cups granulated sugar; % tea- 
spoonful cream tartar. 

First separate your eggs, putting the yolks in a bowl for future 
use, and whites in mixing bowl, to which add a teaspoonful of salt. 
Use the Van Deusen egg whip in a perpendicular position, being 
always careful to whip up anoj not down. Whip to a light froth, 
add the cream of tartar and whip until very stiff. Sift the sugar 
once, place it around the edge of mixing bowl and fold up towards 
the center until the sugar is dissolved. Sift flour five times, then 
measure, and fol.d it lightly through, to which has been previously 
added the flavoring powder. Fold the sugar and flour just long 
enough to dissolve both, and no more. Every stroke you give 
more than is necessary toughens the batter. 

Place in a cold or slow oven; it will raise in twenty-five to 
thirty minutes ; will bake in fifteen to twenty, with slightly increased 
heat. 

Note. — In all cakes where Snell's flavoring powders are used, 
they should be sifted with the flour. 

SUNSHINE OAKE. 

6 fresh eggs; 1 cup flour; 1 teaspoon of salt; 1 % cups granulated sugar; 
half teaspoonful cream tartar; % teaspoonful Snell J s Flavoring Powders. 

First separate your eggs, putting the yolks in a quart bowl, and 
whites in mixing bowl. Take a revolving beater and beat the 
yolks up very stiff. Use the Van Deusen egg whip and whip 
up the whites as for angel cake. Whip up the whites to 
a light froth, add cream of tartar, and whip until very 



CAKE RECIPES. 39 

stiff. Measure and sift sugar once, and place around edge of mix- 
ing bowl. Fold towards the center and up until sugar is dissolved, 
and no more. Add the beaten yolks and fold until smooth. Sift 
flour five times, measure, and fold lightly through, to which has 
previously been added the flavoring powder. Fold no more than is 
necessary to dissolve the flour and sugar. 

Place in a cold or slow oven ; it will raise in twenty-five to thirty 
minutes ; will bake in fifteen to twenty, with slightly increased heat. 

Note. — If desired, when the cake is removed from the mold 
you can scoop out, with a silver fork, the center and make a bird's 
nest of whipped cream and split almonds; or you can add Maras- 
chino or candied cherries to suit. This recipe can also be baked 
in two layer molds, iced, and served in cubes if desired. 

QUEEN ORANGE CAKE. 

1 1 =4 cups of granulated sugar, 3 eggs; two tablespoonfuls of water; 1 cup 
flour, 1 -2 teaspoonf ul of Sneies Orange Flavoring Powder, 1 -2 teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 -4 teaspoonful soda. 

First, separate your eggs, add the water to the yolks and beat stiff, 
then proceed as for "Sunshine Cake." Sift your flour with the 
flavoring powder and soda and fold in lightly ; as you have few eggs 
in this cake the soda is needed to make it light. Bake in two layers, 
will raise in twenty to twenty-five minutes, and bake in ten with 
slightly increased heat. 

Frosting : Grated rind of one orange, juice of a lemon mixed 
with enough confectioner's sugar to make a thick frosting. Slice 
one orange as thinly as possible, and put with the icing between 
the layers of the cake and on top. 

Note. — A cake that can be made in a hurry for an evening tea, 
and is delicious. 

N. B. — If desired for jelly roll, double quantity and bake in 
long dripping pan. Remove from the pan while warm onto a towel 
sprinkled with sugar, spread the top with jelly and roll immediately 
and tie. 



A TOAST. 

A health to the girl that can dance like a dream, 

And the girl that can pound the piano ; 
A health to the girl that writes verse by the ream, 

Or toys with high C in soprano ; 
To the girl that can talk, and the girl that does not ; 

To the saint and the sweet little sinner — 
But here's to the cleverest girl of the lot, 

The girl that can cook a good dinner ! 

— William Cary Duncan. 



40 



CAKE RECIPES. 41 



BUTTER CAKES. 

GOLDEN LOAF. 

y 2 cup butter; 2 l / 2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonfu! soda; */% teaspoonful 
Snell's Flavoring Powder; V/$ cups granulated sugar; 1 cup sweet milk; 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar; 8 yolks of eggs. 

Sift flour once, then jneasure, add soda and sift three times ; 
cream butter and sugar thoroughly; beat yolks about half, add 
cream tartar, and beat to a stiff froth; add this to creamed butter 
and sugar, and stir until smooth ; add milk, then flour, and flavor, 
and stir very hard. Put in a cold or slow oven ; will raise in thirty- 
five to forty minutes, and will bake in fifteen to twenty minutes, 
with slightly increased heat. 

DARK SPICE CAKE. 
Note. — Use the "President" or "Golden Loaf" recipe, and add 
for each cake two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and one each of 
allspice, cloves, ginger and grated nutmeg. 

GOLDEN LAYER CAKE. 
Use the "Golden Loaf" recipe; oven moderate. Will raise in 
fifteen to twenty minutes, and will bake in ten with slightly 
increased heat. Can be baked in two or three layers and laid up 
with any filling desired. 

WHITE SPICE CAKE. 

Use the "Silver Loaf" recipe and Snell's white spices, \ teaspoon- 
ful each cinnamon, cloves, ginger and nutmeg. If you want one 
"more prominent than the rest, use one teaspoon of it. Sift the spices 
with the flour and stir until smooth. 

Note. — The time given in these recipes for raising and baking 
layer cakes applies to three layer cake. For two layer cake the batter 
will be deeper, hence the time must be increased. 



42 CAKE RECIPES 

SILVER LOAF 

Whites of 8 eggs; y 2 cup butter; 2y 2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonful soda; 
1/2 teaspoonful Snell's Flavoring Powder; V/$ cups granulated sugar; % 
cup sweet milk; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Sift flour once, then measure, add soda and sift three times; 
cream butter and sugar thoroughly; whip whites of eggs to a 
foam, add cream of tartar, whip until stiff; add milk, then flour 
and flavor and stir until smooth. Put into a slow oven ; will raise in 
thirty to forty minutes, and will bake in fifteen or twenty with 
slightly increased heat. 

Silver Layer: Use the "Silver Loaf" recipe. Oven moderate; 
will raise in fifteen to twenty minutes and bake in ten. Can be 
baked in two or three layers and laid up with any filling desired. 

PRESIDENT LOAF CAKE. 
4 eggs; y 2 cup butter; 2y 2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonful Snell's Flavoring 
Powders; % cup sweet milk; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; y 2 teaspoonful 
soda; 1'/^ cups granulated cane sugar. 

Separate the eggs, putting yolks into a quart bowl. Cream butter 
and sugar thoroughly. Beat yolks to a froth, add one-half teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar and beat until stiff, and stir in with the butter 
and sugar until smooth. Sift the flour once, measure, add soda 
and flavoring powder and sift three times. Whip the whites to a 
foam, add half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and whip until 
very stiff. Add milk to the creamed butter and sugar, then whites 
of eggs, now the flour, and stir until the batter is smooth. Place 
in a cold or slow oven. Will raise in thirty-five to forty minutes, 
and bake in fifteen to twenty minutes with slightly increased heat. 

I' resident Layer Cake: Use the ''President Loaf" recipe; oven 
moderate; will raise in fifteen to twenty minutes, and bake in ten 
with slightly increased heat. 

Can be baked in two or three layers and laid up with any filling 
desired. For a nut cake, add one cup of chopped nuts to the batter 
after they are floured. 



CAKE RECIPES. 43 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE— NO. 1. 

3 eggs; y z cup butter; 2 l / z cups flour; V/$ cups granulated sugar; V/$ 
cups milk; 2 squares of unsweetened chocolate; y z teaspoonful soda; 1 
teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Grate or shave your chocolate into a small saucepan, to which add 
one-quarter cupful of sugar and half of the milk. Place this over 
the fire in another vessel with hot water and stir until smooth. 
When it is thoroughly melted set aside, and when cool add the 
rest of the milk and stir until well mixed. Sift flour and measure, 
add soda and sift three times. Add one-half teaspoonful of Snell ; s 
vanilla if desired. Cream butter and one cupful of sugar. Sepa- 
rate the eggs and beat the yolks up with a Dover beater to a light 
foam, then add one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar and beat them 
until stiff, and stir until smooth with the creamed butter and sugar. 
Whip the whites until well joined, then add half a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar and whip until stiff. Add the chocolate mix- 
ture, then the flour, and stir until smooth. Stir in whites of eggs 
last. Place in a cold or slow oven. Will raise in thirty-five to forty 
minutes, and will bake in fifteen to twenty with slightly increased 
heat. 

Note. — This can be baked in layer molds and laid up with 
chocolate filling and a boiled white icing for top. 



CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE— NO. 2. 

Yolks of 8 eggs; 1'/i cups granulated sugar; y z cup butter; 2 l / 2 cups 
tlour; 1 teaspoon cream tartar; y z teaspoon soda; \y z cups sweet milk; 2 
squares bitter chocolate; 2 teaspoons cinnamon; 1 teaspoon cloves; '/ 2 
cup pounded almonds; y z cup chopped walnuts. 

Cream together one cup of sugar and the butter. Beat the yolks 
to a froth, add the cream of tartar and beal them until light and 
stiff. Sift the flour once, measure, add soda and sift three times. 



44 CAKE RECIPES. 

Add the beaten yolks to the creamed butter and sugar, then spices 
and almonds, and stir until smooth. Now add the prepared choco- 
late and flour and stir until smooth. Dredge with flour the walnuts 
and stir these in well. Place in a cold or slow oven, using the Van 
Deusen loaf mold. This cake will raise in thirty-five to forty 
minutes, and bake in fifteen to twenty with slightly increased heat. 
Note. — Prepare the chocolate as in recipe for chocolate cake 
No. 1. 



WATERMELON CAKE. 

Whites of 8 eggs; Y z cup butter; % cup milk; 2 [ / 2 cups flour; 1 tea- 
spoonful cream tartar; y 2 teaspoonful soda; y 2 cup seedless raisins; 1'/i 
cups granulated sugar; y 2 teaspoonful Snell's Rose Flavor. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, whip whites to light froth, 
add cream of tartar and whip stiff. Sift flour once, measure, add soda 
and flavor and sift three times. Add to the creamed butter and sugar 
milk, whites of eggs, and flour, and stir until smooth. Now take 
one-third of the batter and place in another bowl, which should 
be colored red with cranberry juice or any good fruit coloring. 
Dampen raisins and dredge with flour and stir in with the red 
batter, and if not stiff add enough flour to make the batter quite 
stiff. Use a watermelon mold that will hold about a quart. Grease 
the mold well with suet. Place the white batter in first, spreading 
it evenly on the bottom and sides of mold. This batter must be 
stiff enough also to keep its place. If there is any doubt about it, 
extra flour should be added before it is placed in the mold. Now 
place in the center the red batter, being careful not to mix it 
with the white. Before placing the cover on grease the inside. 
This can be cooked in a steam cooker or steamed in the oven by 
placing it in a pan of hot water, which should cover the mold. Or 
it can be cooked in a kettle of hot water on top of stove. Place 
something in bottom of kettle for the mold to rest on; excelsior or 
pasteboard will do. The same should be done if baked in the oven. 



CAKE RECIPES. 45 

Steam for three hours in a covered vessel. Remove from mold 
while warm. 

Use the "Glace" frosting (see icings), adding thereto a few drops 
of pistachio nut coloring or some of the juice extracted from spin- 
ach; either of these will give a perfect watermelon green. 



RAINBOW CAKE (double recipe). 

Whites of 16 eggs; 5 cups pastry flour; V/ 2 cups sweet milk; 2 teaspoon- 
fuls cream tartar; 1 teaspoonful soda; 1 teaspoonful Snell's Flavoring 
Powder; 1 cup butter; 2y 2 cups granulated sugar. 

Cream the butter and sugar well, sift flour once, measure, add 
soda and flavoring powder, and sift three times. Whip the whites 
to a light froth, add the cream of tartar and whip stiff; add the 
milk, eggs and flour to the creamed butter and sugar and stir until 
smooth. Now divide this batter by placing it in seven layer molds. 
Use vegetable or fruit colors — purple, yellow, green, blue, orange 
and red — to color the batter the required shade, placing enough 
for this purpose in the batter in each mold, save one which is left 
for the white. Use a kitchen spatula and stir the coloring matter 
well in the batter. Now place in a cold or slow oven. It will 
raise in fifteen minutes, and bake in ten with slightly increased 
heat. When the layers are cold you can lay the cake up with 
different colored fillings, the colors being added to the boiled icing 
as each layer is placed, reserving the white for the top if you so 
prefer. By using taste and skill this will be a most beautiful cake. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Whites of 10 eggs; 154 cupfuls granulated sugar; 1 cup butter; 2Vz 

cups flour; y 2 cup milk; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; \/ 2 teaspoonful soda; 

"1 teaspoonful each Snell's white cloves, ginger, nutmeg and cinnamon; 

1 cupful split almonds; 1 cupful white seedless raisins; 1 cupful candied 

citron or pineapple; y 2 cup Maraschino or candied cherries, sliced. 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly, whip whites to a light 



46 CAKE RECIPES. 

foam, add cream of tartar and whip stiff. Sift flour once, add soda 
and spices and sift three times. Dredge fruit and nuts thoroughly. 
To the creamed butter and sugar add the milk, whites and flour, 
and stir until smooth. Add the fruit and nuts and more flour if 
needed to make the batter stiff. This cake can be baked in oven 
or steamed in a cooker. In a steam cooker it will take about three 
hours, and about one hour and a half in an oven, with a slow heat. 



MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE. 

2J/2 cups flour; 1 cup raisins; 1 cup currants; 3 eggs; y 2 cup milk; 
y 2 cup butter; 1 teaspoonful ginger, cloves, cinnamon, and one nutmeg 
grated; 1 cup chopped figs; 1'/4 cups brown sugar; 1 cup molasses (New 
Orleans) ; </ 2 teaspoonful soda. 

Work well together the butter and sugar, then add the eggs well 
beaten, and the other ingredients, putting in the flour last ; stir all 
well together, then flour a cup of raisins, one cup of currants and 
one cup of chopped figs; add these last. Bake in a moderate oven 
two or three hours or in the steam cooker. One cupful of blanched 
split almonds or walnuts may be added if desired ; and more flour if 
needed to make the batter stiff. 



DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

1'/i cups sugar; 1 egg; 2y 2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonful soda; y 2 cup 
butter ; 1 cup milk; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; 4 large juicy apples. 

Beat the sugar and butter thoroughly, sift flour once, measure, 
add soda, and sift three times. Beat egg to froth, add cream tartar, 
and beat it well. Add the egg to the butter and sugar, the milk 
and flour, and stir until smooth. Pare and cut the apples into 
eighths, then place them on the batter in rows. Sprinkle sugar 
and a little cinnamon over the bop, place in slow oven and raise 
thirty minutes, then bake in ten with slightly increased heat. 

\','i the Viola ■■ Fruli Cake whole wheat Hour may !«• used as a substitute tor whit 



CAKE RECIPES. 47 

PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

■ 1[4 cups granulated sugar; 4 eggs; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; y 2 cup but- 
ter; 2j/2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonful soda; 1 teaspoonful Snell's Pineapple 
Flavor; 3 ^ cup sweet milk; 1 cup grated candied pineapple. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly; separate the eggs and beat 
the yolks to a light froth; add half the cream of tartar and beat 
them up stiff. Add these to the creamed butter and sugar and 
stir them up smooth. Sift flour once, measure, add soda and one 
teaspoonful Snell's pineapple flavoring powder and sift three times. 
Whip the whites up to a light froth, add the rest of the cream 
of tartar and whip up very stiff. Add milk, whites of eggs and 
flour, and stir until smooth. 

Bake the above cake in two layer molds. 

Place in a cold or slow oven. Will raise in twenty to thirty 
minutes, and bake in ten with slightly increased heat. 

Filling: Make a boiled icing and stir into it one cupful of 
grated candied pineapple. Use this for a filling and top. 

Note. — If preferred, sliced pineapple (cored) can be placed be- 
tween the layers and on top, and is delicious. 



WALNUT LOAF CAKE. 

4 eggs; y 2 cup butter; 2 ] / 2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonful soda, y 2 teaspoon- 
ful Snell's Almond or Pistachio Flavoring; V/$ cups granulated sugar; % 
cup sweet milk; 1 teaspocnful cream tartar; 1 cup English walnuts. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly in mixing bowl. Separate 
the eggs. Add one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar to the yolks 
and beat stiff; now add them to the creamed butter and sugar 
and stir smooth. Sift flour once, measure, add soda and flavoring, 
and sift three times. Whip the whites to a froth and add the other 
half teaspoon cream of tartar, and whip stiff. To the mixing bowl 
add the milk, flour, flavoring and whites of eggs, stir until smooth. 



is 



CAKE RECIPES. 



To the batter add one cupful of walnut meats, chopped or run 
through the largest die of a meat chopper, after being dredged 
with flour and salted. Place in a cold or slow oven; will raise in 
thirty-five to forty minutes, and bake in fifteen or twenty with 
slightly increased heat. 

Walnut Filling (for any kind of layer) : One cup of walnuts 
crushed finely, one cup of heavy cream whipped till stiff, one cup 




brown or maple sugar. First whip the cream, add the crushed 
walnuts and sugar. Spread on between layers. 

The above cake can be baked in a two-layer cake and this filling 
used by leaving the walnuts out of the batter. 



RIBBON CAKE. 

y 2 cup butter; 3 eggs; 2|/ 2 cups flour; y 2 teaspoonful soda; V/$ cups 
granulated sugar; % cup milk (sweet); 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; y 2 
teaspoonful Snell's Flavoring Powder; 1 teaspoonful cinnamon; y z tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, ginger and allspice; y z cup chopped raisins; and 
y z cup hickory nuts or walnuts. 

Cream butter and sugar well ; separate the eggs and beat the yolks 
up very stiff; add to the creamed butter and sugar and stir until 



CAKE RECIPES. . 49 

Bmooth ; sift flour once, measure, add soda and sift three times. Whip 
whites of eggs up to a froth, add cream of tartar and whip up very 
stiff. Add the milk, whites of eggs, then flour, flavoring, and stir 
all together until smooth. Take one-third the cake batter and add 
one-half cup chopped raisins and one-half cup hickory nuts, and 
the spices. Bake the fruit layer in one mold and rest of the batter 
in two layers. Lay up with any icing preferred, placing the fruit 
layer in the middle. "Will raise in twenty minutes, and bake in ten 
with slightly increased heat. Place in a slow oven. 



MARBLE CAKE (double recipe). 

—White.— 
V/ 4 cups granulated sugar; y 2 cup butter: 2/3 cup sweet milk; 2'/2 cups 
flour; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; y 2 teaspoonful soda; whites of 7 eggs. 

— Brown. — 

1|4 cups brown sugar; y 2 cup butter; % cup milk (sweet); 2*/ 2 cups 
flour; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; y 2 teaspoonful soda; yolks of 7 eggs; 
I cup molasses; 1 teaspoonful each, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
cloves. 

Or you can use chocolate in the place of molasses and spices if you prefer. 
Prepare it as for chocolate cake. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, for both parts, whip whites 
to froth, add cream tartar, and whip very stiff. Lightly beat the 
yolks, add cream tartar and beat very stiff. Proceed to mix as for 
two separate cakes. In preparing the flour for each battel, sift 
once, measure, add the soda, and sift three times. To the white part 
add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar, then the whites of 
eggs, the flour and flavoring, and stir until smooth. To the dark- 
part add the yolks to the creamed butter and sugar, stir until 
smooth; add the molasses and spices, and stir in, then add milk, 
flour and stir until smooth. Drop some of the white in the mold, 
then some of the brown, and so on until the mold is half full. 

Note. — For one cake use half of each recipe. 



50 CAKE RECIPES. 

always leaving as much space above the batter in the mold as the 
depth of the cake. This is enough to make two loaf cakes. Put 
into a slow oven. It will raise in thirty-five to forty minutes, an 1 
bake in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Note. — Another way of making a beautiful marble cake is to 
fill your mold about an inch deep with the white batter, and drop 
into this, in several places, a spoonful of the dark mixture; then 
put in another layer of the white, and add the dark as before. 
Repeat this until batter is used up. 

NOTE— For a White Marin Cake. u«e Silver Loaf Recipe. Takeout M of the hatter when ready for the cake 

mold, and add to it one teas] i each of cinnamon and cloves and stir smooth. Put together as above. 

PEANUT-BUTTER CAKE. 

3 eggs; y 2 cup butter; Zy 2 cups of flour; y 2 teaspoonful of soda; 1 tea- 
spccnful of cream of tartar; y 2 teaspoonful Snell's Flavoring Powder; V/$ 
cups granulated sugar; % cup sweet milk. 

Sift flour once, then measure; add soda and flavoring powder and 
sift three times. Cream butter and sugar thoroughly; separate the 
eggs, beat the yolks to a light froth; add half the cream of tartar, 
beat until stiff and stir in. Whip whites to a foam; add the rest of 
the cream of tartar and whip until stiff. Add milk, then whites, then 
flour and stir until smooth. Bake in two or three layers. Place in a 
cold or slow oven. Will raise in twenty to thirty minutes and bake 
in ten to twenty with slightly increased heat. When cold, lay up 
and use for a filling and icing, the Peanut-Butter recipe. (Page 61.) 



COCOANUT LAYER CAKE.. 

3 eggs; 1'/4 cups granulated sugar; 2\/ 2 cups flour; % cup milk; 1 tea- 
spoenful cream of tartar; \' z teaspoonful soda; \/ 2 cupful butter; \ 2 teaspoon- 
iu? Snell's Almond Flavoring Powder; cocoanut and citron. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Separate the eggs; beat 
the yolks to a light froth; add half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar 



CAKE IlECIPES. 51 

and beat them up stiff. Add these to the creamed butter and sugar 
and stir until smooth. Sift flour once, measure, add soda and flavor- 
ing powder and sift three times. Whip whites to a light foam, add 
the rest of the cream of tartar and whip until stiff. Now add the 
milk, whites of eggs and the flour and stir until smooth. Bake in 
two or three layer molds. Place in a cold or slow oven. Will 
raise in fifteen to twenty minutes, and bake in ten with slightly 
increased heat. 

Use boiled icing to lay up the cake with. Stir in minced citron 
and spread between the layers and on top. Sprinkle the icing 
with fresh grated cocoanut. Decorate the top with bits of green 
citron. 



CARAMEL LAYER CAKE. 

2 eggs; y z cup butter; 2|/ 2 cups flour; '/ 2 teaspoonful soda; 1 teaspoon- 
fu! cream of tartar; y z teaspoonful Snell's Flavoring Powder; 1J4 cups 
granulated sugar; 1 cup milk. 

Sift flour once and measure; add soda and flavoring powder ami 
sift three times. Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Separate the 
eggs and beat the yolks about half; add half the cream of tartar and 
beat to a stiff froth and stir in. Whip up the whites to a light froth; 
add the rest of the cream of tartar and whip until .-tiff. Add milk, 
then whites, then flour and stir until smooth. Bake in two or three 
layers. Oven slow. Will raise in twenty to thirty minutes and bake 
in ten to twenty with slightly increased heat. When the cakes are 
cold, use for a filling and icing, the cold caramel made by the cara- 
mel recipe. 



ONE EGG CAKE. 

i/2 cup butter; 1 egg; 1 teaspoonful cream tartar; '/ 2 teaspoonful soda: 
1^4 cups granulated sugar; 2 y z cups flour; 1 cup sweet milk; /, tea 
spoonful Snell's Flavoring Powder. 

Put all into the mixing bowl and stir until smooth. Sift the flour 



52 CAKE RECIPES. 

and add it last. Bake in two layer molds, in slow oven. Will raise 
in twenty to thirty minutes, and bake in ten with slightly increased 
heat. Can be iced if desired. 

NoTE.-^-This recipe is intended for an emergency cake, to be 
made in a hurry, and may be served hot if desired. 

MOLASSES GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup New Orleans molasses; \/ 2 cup shortening; 1 teaspoonful soda; 
1 cup granulated sugar; 1 cup water (hot); 3 teaspoonfuls ginger; 4 cups 
flour. 

Stir molasses, sugar, shortening, spices thoroughly together, then 
add hot water. Sift the flour and soda together, add to other 
ingredient.- and stir hard. Bake in two layer molds or in a dripping 
pan. Oven moderate; will raise and bake in thirty to forty minutes. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

Make a crust with one-half more shortening than for biscuit. 
Roll in two sheets, spread the under one with butter, place the other 
on top and bake. When baked, separate layers and place mashed 
and sweetened fruit between and on top. Serve with cream, plain 
or whipped. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Three eggs, one and one-quarter cups granulated sugar, one table- 
spoonful melted butter, one-quarter teaspoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful milk or water and one teaspoonful cream of tartar: mix. all 
together and beat up well. Take one cup of flour, add to it one-half 
teaspoonful soda and sift twice; now add the flour to rest in mixing 
bowl and stir until smooth. Bake in dripping pan in a moderate 
oven. Take from the oven and turn on a paper sprinkled with 
powdered sugar. Jelly should be well beaten, spread on at once 
and rolled. Roll paper around it to keep it in shape. Tf the work 
of rolling is delayed it will crack in rolling. 



CAKE RECIPES. 53 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

Grate one-quarter of a pound of chocolate and mix one-quarter of 
a pound of sifted powdered sugar and one-quarter of a pound of 
blanched and ground almonds. Add a pinch of cinnamon and the 
whites of three beaten eggs, and mix to a soft paste. Drop in half 
teaspoonfuls on slightly buttered paper and bake in a moderate 
oven. Do not take from the paper until cold; then brush the 
unde.r side with cold water, and the paper can be readily stripped 
ofi.~Mrs. C. C. Bedford. 



QUEEN ECLAIRS. 

Three-quarters cup of water, one tablespoon ful butter, three-quar- 
ters cup of flour, two eggs, half teaspoon cream tartar and quarter 
teaspoon soda, pinch of salt. Boil together the water and butter, 
stir in the flour and salt, and stir until the mixture forms a stiff 
paste and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Cool slightly, add the 
cream of tartar and soda to the eggs and beat until joined, then 
add the eggs to the paste and beat well. Lastly place the mixture 
on greased baking tins in pieces about the size and length of the 
finger. Bake slowly until quite light. Cool, make an incision in 
the side of each cake and fill with whipped cream, custard, or jelly. 
They may be iced if desired. 



LADY FINGERS. 

^hites of three eggs, one-third cup sugar, yolks of two eggs, one- 
irth ieaspoonful salt, flavor to suit taste; one cup of pastry flour 
after sifting five times; if Western bread flour is used, three-quarters 
cup. Beat whites of eggs until stiff, fold in the sugar, then add 
tne well-beaten yolks and fold in flour till dissolved. Roll lightly 
in flour, shape and bake in slow oven. 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 



OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Mix together two cupfuls of oatmeal and two cupfuls of flour. 
Mix well with this a 'teaspoonfui of cream of tartar and half a 
teaspoonfui of soda. Add a cup and a quarter of granulated sugar, 
half a cupful of melted butter and half a teaspoonfui of salt. Stir 
altogether with enough water or milk to make a stiff dough. Roll 
out very thin ; cut into any shape desired. Bake in a moderate 
oven. These cookies will keep well for weeks, providing they are 
out of reach of the small boy or girl. 



CERT SNELL COOKIES. 

Stir until well mixed, two cups of granulated sugar and one ciif 
of butter; stir in three well beaten eggs and flour enough to make 
a stiff dough. Roll out thin on a floured board, cut round, sprinkle 
with sugar, place a raisin in the center of each, and bake in a 
hot oven to a light brown. 

NOTE— These will 1 n the snap order. IT you desire them light, add one teaspoon cream of tartar and half 

teaspoon of soda. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Warm slightly half a cupful of butter and a cupful of New 
Orleans molasses, and beat t<> a, cream. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
ginger and one of cinnamon, and stir in. Sift two cupfuls of flour 
:iii(l one teaspoonfui of soda until well mixed. Stir this in with 
ili rest until you have a soft dough. Roll out thin and cut into any 
desired shape. Bake quickly. 

54 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 55 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream together one cup of sugar and a half cup of butter; 
stir into this two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon 
and one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add five cups of flour into which 
has been sifted one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda ; stir in one cup of sweet milk. Use less flour 
if needed to make soft dough. Flour the board and roll dough 
nearly one inch thick, and cut with a cutter that has a hole in the 
center. To avoid working the dough over so many times, take one 
or two spoonfuls of the dougli onto the board at a time and roll 
and cut, then two more spoonfuls, etc., till you have used up all 
the dough. While you are cutting out the doughnuts you can have 
your frying kettle over the fire with some good leaf lard, which 
must be hot when you drop them in. Do not crowd too many 
in the kettle, as they fry best when they do not touch each other. 
As the doughnuts brown on one side turn the other side by lifting 
them over with a fork slipped through the ring. When done a 
nice brown remove with fork and lay on blotting paper to drain, then 
place more in the kettle, and before taking them out place those 
on the blotting paper on a large platter, etc., till you have them 
all fried. When perfectly cold place them in a stone crock and 
cover. Will keep a long time in a cool place. 

Olive oil may be used in the place of the lard 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Cream together one cupful of butter and one cupful of granu- 
lated sugar; stir in one cupful of New Orleans molasses, one table- 
spoonful of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and add 
three cupfuls of flour into which has been sifted one teaspoonful 
of soda. Stir thoroughly and add flour enough to make a dough 
that can be easily rolled. Roll thin, cut in rounds and bake in a 
moderate oven. 



MISCELLANEOUS CAKES 

(Three old timers that cannot be inverted on cooling table) 
DEVIL'S FOOD LAYER CAKE. 

2 cups darkest brown sugar; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoonful soda; y 2 CU P sweet 
milk; y 2 cup boiling water; y 2 CU P butter; 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar; 2y 2 
cups flour; a pinch of salt; y 2 cup grated chocolate. 

Place in your mixing bowl, the sugar, then butter, eggs, milk, 
cream of tartar and pinch of salt; mix these thoroughly, take one- 
half cupful boiling water, stir into this one teaspoonful soda and one- 
half cup grated chocolate; stir this into the other ingredients, sift 
flour once, measure and sift three times, and stir in until smooth. 
Bake in three layer molds. 

Filling: 2 cups dark brown sugar, % cup butter, % sweet milk 
or cream. Cook until it threads. Flavor to suit taste. 

POUND CAKE. 

1 lb. butter; 10 eggs; 2 teaspoonfuls mace; 1 lb. sugar; 1 lb. flour. 

Cream the butter, adding sugar gradually, beating in the yolks of 
the eggs until thick, then add whites of eggs beaten stiff, flour, 
mace; beal five minutes. Bake one and one-fourth hours in a slow 
oven. If for fancy cake.-;, bake thirty to forty minutes in a large 
shallow mold. 

WEDDING 'FRUIT CAKE (DOUBLE SIZE). 

% lb. butter; 10 eggs: y 2 cup pure fruit syrup; 1 lb. citron; 4 lbs. rais- 
ins; 4 cups flour; 1 lb. brown sugar; 1 pint molasses; V 2 cup grape juice; 
3 lbs. currants; '/ 2 oz. each, cinnamon, mace, cloves, and two nutmegs 
grated. 

Cream butter and sugar, beat eggs, then add them to the creamed 
butter and sugar with the other ingredients, and stir well. Line the 
mold with oiled paper, covering the top of the cake also. Bake in a 
moderate oven six to eight hours. This cake will keep for fifty years 
providing you don't eat it. 

X. B. — Those who prefer can substitute in place of syrup and 
grape, pure boiled cider. This will fill the extra large Van Deusen moid 

56 



FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 



WHITE ENAMEL ICING. 

Dissolve one-quarter tablespoonful powdered gum arabic in one-half 
cup of oold water. Add a half cup of granulated sugar and boil until 
it spins a thread from the end'of the spoon. Have ready the white 
of one egg whipped stiff and pour this mixture in and stir until 
well mixed. Flavor with half a teaspoonful of SnelFs Tropical 
Fruits and spread while warm on cake with a kitchen spatula 
dipped in hot water. 



YELLOW FROSTING. 

Proceed the same as in the recipe for "Marshmallow Icing," only 
use the yolks of eggs instead of the whites. 



SOFT BOILED ICING. 

Dissolve one-half a cupful of granulated sugar in one-quarter 
cupful of water, place over a slow fire and simmer till it will spin a 
hair from the end of a spoon. Have the white of one egg whipped 
stiff with one teaspoonful of lemon juice added. Pour the syrup 
gradually into the white, flavor with one-half teaspoonful Snell's 
lemon flavor, and whip till stiff enough to ice the cake. 



WHITE ROSE GLACE. 

Whip the white of one egg up stiff with one-quarter of a cup of 
confectioners' sugar; add ten drop- of lemon juice and whip for 



58 • FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 

about five minutes. Flavor with rose flavoring powder. When 
finished it will be very white and fluffy. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING. 

Boil slowly together three-quarters cup of granulated cane 
sugar and one-quarter cup of water. Do not stir the sugar after it 
is dissolved. To determine when it is boiled enough, which is 
the vital point in making boiled icing, lift some of the fluid by 
dipping the point of a tablespoon in the bottom of the saucepan, 
and if it shows a hair on point of spoon after lifting out it is ready 
to stir into the white of one egg, which should be whipped up stiff 
before with one-quarter teaspoon of cream of tartar. Pour sugar 
slowly into the white of the egg and stir continually. Now add 
flavoring and whip until stiff enough to spread on. If a smooth, 
glossy finish is desired, put it on hot, or keep it thin with a few 
drops of water. Do not rub the spatula over it after it begins to 
set. or it will deaden the gloss. If a dull finish is desired, spread 
it on when it is about cold. This icing if made properly will 
have every appearance of marsnmallow, being hard on the outside 
and soft inside, which in cutting cake makes an ideal icing. 

If ornaments are desired, after this icing has well set, use a pastry 
bag and decorate with fresh icing, making such ornaments as you 
may desire. If you should happen to get your icing too thin to 
pile up good, thicken with confectioners' sugar. This will make a 
sufficient quantity for one cake. For the cake ornaments use cold 
icing recipe. 

CARAMEL ICING. 

Put one-half cup dark brown sugar into granite basin with one 
tablespoon of water and burn black. Then set away to cool, when 
it is ready for use. This can be kept for stock. When you wish 
to make the icing pour a little cold water on burnt sugar (which 
always keep in the basin in which it is burnt), then pour off and 
thicken with XXXX confectioners' sugar and spread on the cake. 

Note. If you waul ;i strong caramel and dark shade, let the 
wuler stand a while on the burnl sugar. 



FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 59 

EGGLESS ICING. 

Take one cupful of XXXX confectioners' sugar and two table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; beat thoroughly and spread on your cake, which 
should be cold. The icing will whiten after it has stood a little 
while. You may color it with pink sugar or chocolate if you like. 
Flavor to suit. 



CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two squares of chocolate, grated, five tablespoonfuls granulated 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls boiling water. Stir over a moderate fire 
until smooth and glossy, and spread on cake while warm. 



PLAIN FROSTING. 

The whites of two eggs and two cups XXXX sugar, the juice 
of a lemon or orange added. Beat well the whites of the eggs, 
adding the sugar to stiffen in small quantities; continue until you 
have beaten the eggs to a stiff froth ; it will take about one-half hour 
if beaten well all the time; if not stiff enough then, add more sugar; 
spread carefully on the cake with a kitchen spatula, dipping the 
knife in cold water occasionally. To color icing yellow, put the 
grated peel of lemon or orange into a piece of muslin, strain a little 
juice through it, and whip it into the other ingredients. Straw- 
berry or cranberry juice colors a pretty pink color. 



GLACE FROSTING. 

Put three-quarters cup granulated sugar and one-quarter cup 
water in small saucepan. Stir over fire until sugar is nearly melted. 
Take the spoon from the pan before the sugar really begins to boil, 

NOTE— If v. 11 want more ^:...ss in the " Chocolate Icing " add one hall' teaspoon of butter. 



(50 FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 

because it would spoil the icing if the syrup were stirred after it 
begins to boil. After boiling gently for five minutes, add one-half 
teaspoonful of Snell's vanilla flavoring, but do not stir; then set 
away to cool. When the syrup is about lukewarm, whip until 
thick and white. Put the saucepan in another with boiling water, 
and stir until icing is thin enough to pour. Spread on the cake 
quickly. 

CHOCOLATE GLACE. 

After making the "Glace Frosting" dissolve in two tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water one square of chocolate and stir into "Glace 
Frosting." 

FIG FILLING. 

Use one-half pound of figs, one-third cup of sugar, one4hird cup- 
ful boiling water, and one tablespoonful lemon juice. Chop the figs 
up fine and mix with the sugar and water, add the lemon juice and 
cook in double boiler until thick enough to spread. 

COCOA NUT FILLING. 

Use the whites of two eggs, fresh grated cocoanut, and XXXX 
sugar. Whip the whites until stiff, adding enough XXXX sugar 
to spread. Spread this icing over the cake, and sprinkle quickh 
with cocoanut. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING AND SHORTCAKE . 

Beat the whites of two eggs lightly, add four tablespoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar, and then beat until stiff. It is then ready to be spread 
between the layers of the cake. Mash the strawberries slightly and 
place thorn on the filling between the layers. 

Raspberries, bananas or peaches may be used in the same man- 
ner. 

To be used with the one-egg cake recipe or r biscuit dough baked 



FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 61 

in two layers; first coating dough with butter between layers so 
as to separate easy. 



PEANUT BUTTER FILLING. 

Use one heaping tablespoonful of "Peanut Butter," cream 
with five tablespoonfuls of milk, add XXXX confectioners' sugar un- 
til thick enough to spread on cake. Stir until smooth. This makes 
an elegant filling and may be also used for the top. 

Note. — This peanut butter is sold by most grocers. If this can- 
not be secured, you can prepare your own from the roasted peanuts. 
Pulverize as much as you desire in a mortar and mix to a paste. 

ALMOND FILLING. ' 

Blanch one cupful of almonds. Add to the nuts one-quarter 
cupful sugar and pound to a smooth paste. This can be added to 
the boiled icing, in which case it would be well to flavor it with 
almonds. 



CUSTARD FILLING. 

Put the yolks of four eggs into a small bowl, then add one-half 
cup of sugar, four even tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, flavor to suit. 
Stir altogether until smooth. Heat two cupfuls of milk until it 
boils, add the mixture and stir until thoroughly cooked. 

Note. — For "Walnut filling" see page 48. 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF 
OF BREAD 

In making a good loaf of bread, as in making a good house, the 
first thing thai should be considered is the material to be used. 
If we are ignorant or indifferent in regard to that, the finished 
product will reveal the fact. A great deal has been said and writ- 
ten on different flours. The question has been discussed pro and 
con, "How should wheat be milled to produce the largest amount 
of nutriment for the physical wants of man?" The friends of the 
white loaf and the advocates of graham flour have been divided 
into two hostile camps: the friends of graham flour maintaining that 
the whole of the berry should be ground up and served to man in 
his loaf of bread as provided by nature. That is, taking out the 
bran and the germ as they do in milling white bread flour, the 
most valuable part for nutrition in building up waste tissues, is 
lost, thus reducing its value very materially as a food product. 
They even go so far as to say any person trying to live any length 
of time on white flour bread will in a short time die from lack of 
nourishment, and yet wheat is recognized everywhere as "queen of 
cereals," because as such it contains in almost exact proportions the 
nutritive elements demanded by the human system. The human 
body demands from the food daily about 100 grains of protein, 50 
grams of fat and 450 grams carbohydrates. Under the term "fats" 
we include the fat of meats, oils, butter, bird. etc. Carbohydrates 
is a term covering a number of substances, but the chief ones with 
which we are concerned are sugar and starch. Protein refers to a 
class of substances which have nitrogen in their composition, and 
include the white of eggs, lean of meat, flesh of fish and gluten of 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 63 

wheat, and is covered by the expressive term commonly used, "flesh 
formers." The fats and carbohydrates supply heat to the body and 
energy or force. The principal function of protein is to supply 
muscular tissue, although it does supply some heat or energy. Ex- 
tensive experiments both by the government under the direction 
of the pure food commission, and state chemists under the direction 
of the state agricultural societies, gradually have reached certain 
conclusions and arrived at fixed standards by their researches with 
which the unscientific world is unfamiliar, but which have an 
important value from a nutritive and economic standpoint. They 
have decided beyond further question that neither the fats nor 
carbohydrates can replace protein as a muscle builder. Understand 
by protein we mean those foods having nitrogen in their compo- 
sition can alone build muscle tissue, and the flour or foods lacking 
the essential proportions of this substance required by the body 
are likely to cause disturbances that will imperil the health and 
derange seriously the delicate machinery of the human system. 
The advocates of white flour admit that it is true that the whole 
wheat contains more protein than white flour ; but they reply, "We 
live not by what we eat, but by what we digest." "We can eat hay, 
but not digest it." They claim that the protein in the bran and 
so-called aleuron layer is enclosed in cellulose walls; human beings 
cannot digest cellulose, and therefore the enclosed food is not 
available to us. Because of this the white flour advocates claim 
that they are right in throwing out the germ and aleuron layer 
with the bran, and feeding it to stock, as being more suitable food 
for them than for man. I have always thought, and still maintain, 
that the whole truth is never to be found in the extreme view on 
either side of any question. In this it is more safe to take the 
"middle of the road." I therefore prefer neither the graham flour 
nor the white flour for bread, but would recommend the whole 
of the wheat flour. 

Many people who are troubled with constipation will find the 
use of the whole of the wheat in their bread will be much better 
for them than drugs, as the outer bran is removed and only the 



64 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

inner bran is left in the Hour; hence, the whole of the wheat flour 
will be less irritating to the intestinal canal than the graham flour 
and yet will promote peristaltic action and overcome the constipa- 
tion produced by eating the white loaf. The laity will do well to 
remember that it is not "what we eat," but "what we digest and 
absorb," that renews our youth and builds up the waste tissue caused 
by the round of daily tasks. As with every other food, I would 
say of bread, eat what agrees with you. It is a well-known fact 
that what is "meat for one may be poison for another." There is 
no doubt that excellent bread can be made from the Western spring 
wheat flours, and it is claimed for them that they contain 3 per 
cent more protein than the winter wheat flours raised in the Middle 
and Northern states. Every bread maker must understand in using 
a spring wheat flour that the wheat is harder, due to the dryness of 
the climate and the altitude in which it is raised, and the flour 
will require, because of this, much more moisture in the shape 
of water or milk than the winter wheat flour, in making the 
dough for the loaf the same consistency. Therefore, no iron rule 
can be laid down in regard to the amount of moisture to be used, 
unless we know what flour you are to use. To secure the besi 
results, brains and good judgment must be mixed with your loaf. 
A few general rules may not be amiss as a guide to the inexperi- 
enced. The first rule and one that we wish to place at the top as 
most important from a sanitary standpoint, is absolute cleanliness. 
Finger nails should be examined as well as the vessels used, and 
the material to be used in them. Be sure they are all in prime 
condition. Flour should be kept in a cool, dry place. It should 
be warmed before using, and brought to the same temperature 
as the milk and water, which should be about 78 degrees. If you 
will remember that the temperature of the body is over 95 degrees, 
you will understand that the dough should always feel cool to the 
hands. Avoid all draughts caused by open doors and windows, 
while mixing your sponge or kneading your bread and placing 
it in the pans, and especially when placing it in the pans, 
for if it receives a chill at this time it will never recover. 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF DREAD. 65 

When shaped into rolls or loaves, cover with a cloth, and if 
the temperature is liable to change, place it on some elevated shelf 
in a tin bread box and cover heavily. The temperature should 
never be less than 75 degrees or more than 100 during the raising 
period. Sponge should never raise but once. In mixing the sponge 
beat vigorously, while it is soft, to fill it with air bubbles. The 
temperature determines the time in which the sponge will raise ; 
upon the mixing of the dough depends the lightness of the bread. 
If the sponge is set the night before the bread is baked, it should 
be made with cold water or cold milk after it has been 
-raided. If set in the morning the milk should be scalded 
and the water warm. If you find you must shorten the 
raising period to get your bread done, do not increase 
the temperature, but double the amount of yeast. Your bread 
will not be so good, but better than if you had it get too warm. Do 
not let it over raise; especially when shaped into rolls or loaves; 
if you do, you will damage your bread. Do not mix it too stiff in 
the bowl, but use enough Hour so it will be sufficiently stiff, and will 
require no more when removed to the bread board. Remember 
that a soft dough makes a better loaf of bread than a stiff one. 
If your bread does not raise fast enough, set the crock in warm 
water. This will give it an even temperature, for warm water can 
be added from time to time to keep it so. Bread should double its 
size at the first raising in three hours, and the second, in one 
hour. . After raising first time, punch down, and let raise for 
another hour: then shape into loaves, place in greased pans, cover 
and set in warm place, and when light put in oven to bake. When 
trie loaves are ready for the oven, scatter a spoonful of flour on 
paper and set in the oven. If it takes a good brown color in five 
minutes, the oven is right for baking. 



MIXING THE SPONGE. 

The following recipe will make six loaves of bread. If you do 
not use home made yeast, dissolve <me and a half ounces 



66 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

of Yeast Foam or any good dry yeast in a pint of cold water 
or cold milk and add one pound of sifted flour. Cover and set 
in a room with a temperature between 75 and 90 degrees. The 
sponge will take seven or eight hours to raise. For instance, if 
the housewife sets it at ten o'clock at night, it will be ready for 
the first mixing at five or six o'clock in the morning. When the 
sponge is ready, sift about four pounds of flour into mixing pan or 
bowl, make a well in the center into which put one heaping tea- 
spoonful salt, two rounding tablespoonfuls sugar, and two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of butter or lard. Into this, stir about one pint of 
lukewarm water, then stir in the sponge and knead until soft 
to touch, and it does not stick to the hands. Work fast but lightly, 
for fifteen to twenty minutes, then cover the dough with a heavy 
covering. A light covering will not do. Let it rest two and a half 
to three 'hours in a warm place. When it rises to the top of the 
pan or double in size, punch the mixture down, then let it rise 
another hour, then form into loaves and put into pans, cover well, 
and let rise for another hour. When light, put into an oven not less 
tHan 350 degrees temperature, and when the bread is crusted over, 
bake with a diminishing heat till it is baked through. In small 
ovens, the loaves need frequent turning to insure even baking. 
When safe to handle, it is safe to take out. If the escaping steam 
from the bread is too hot to the hand, it needs more baking. When 
done, take from the pans, place on a rack or cooling table. Do not 
put the bread away in the bread box till cold. 

A cook who knows how to use these things, or will be persevering 
in her efforts to learn, and who has a good oven, can be sure of 
a good loaf of bread. 



POTATO YEAST. 

Take one dozen even sized potatoes, pare, and put in kettle to 
boil into which has been put a medium sized salt bag of hops. 
Cook until potatoes are done. . 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 67 

Now have ready in a two-gallon crock one quart of flour, to 
which has been added enough cold water to stir smooth. Place col- 
ander over crock, take bag of hops and put in colander, press 
water out with potato masher then mash the potatoes through col- 
ander, then pour the water in which hops and potatoes have been 
cooked, through colander; remove colander from crock, and stir 
the ingredients smooth. Pour back into kettle and cook until done, 
or is slightly thick, put back into crock and let stand till lukewarm, 
then add a pint of sponge which has been saved from last baking, 
together with a cake of Yeast Foam, or any dry yeast. Stir thor- 
oughly and let stand in moderate place until next day, when put 
into a gallon jug and cork tightly. Keep in cool place. Will keep 
fresh for months. One cupful is sufficient for six large loaves. 



HOW TO SET POTATO SPONGE. 

The night before you bake peel and boil half a dozen medium-size 
potatoes in enough water to cover them. When done lift with a 
skimmer into a granite saucepan, sprinkle with salt, mash thor- 
oughly, and stir in the water in which they were boiled. Now stir in 
enough flour to make a very thick batter and beat well. Let stand, 
and when lukewarm put in one cupful of potato yeast, cover and let 
stand in a warm place till morning. This will make six large 
loaves. If you wish to make four loaves, use three-quarters of a 
cup of yeast. 



HOW TO MAKE POTATO BREAD. 

Sift five quarts of flour into a large bread pan or bowl. Make a 
well in the center, put in two tablespoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, 
two of lard, and one teaspoonful ginger, and stir in a quart of 
lukewarm water till the ingredients are well mixed, now stir in 
the sponge, rinsing the saucepan with a little warm water. Pour 
it into the pan and take both hands and mix thoroughly. When 
von have worked in all the flour you need, begin to punch with 



68 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

closed hands, and fold, and continue until it does not stick to the 
pan or hands, and still feel soft to the touch. It is very easy to 
keep the sides and bottom of the pan free from dough if you are 
careful in handling, and you will need no more Hour on the molding 
board when you come to cut your loaves for the pans. 



SALT RISING BREAD. 

At nighl lake two-thirds of a cupful of fresh milk, let 
conic to a boil, remove from the fire quickly and stir in 
enough meal to make a stiff sponge. Wrap a cloth round the cup 
while yet warm, then paper to exclude the air, put in a crock, cover, 
and place where it will keep warm. In the morning place the cup 
in a pan of warm water and let the meal get light, half an hour 
will do, then add pinch of soda, salt and sugar. Pour into a bowl 
one pint of water too warm to bear the hand in, then stir in enough 
Hour to make a moderately stiff batter; by the time the flour is 
stirred smooth, the batter will be cool enough co stir in the meal 
sponge. Always stir this sponge up in a small jar, put in a kettle 
of warm water and put in a warm place to rise, always being careful 
to keep near the same temperature. Let rise almost one-half. Sift 
flour in bread bowl and in center put one heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar, one level tablespoonful of salt, or more if preferred, and 
rounding teaspoonful of butter, lard or drippings. Pour one pint 
of boiling water over this and stir well with a spoon so as to mix 
well (this only scalds a small part of the flour, but by this process 
the bread is always whiter, finer and more moist) and then cool 
with as much milk or water or both, as you want bread, and 
then put in soft sponge and mix very stiff; remove from bowl and 
knead well. Mould in small loaves, put in tin pans each loaf to 
itself, put in a warm place to rise until light and bake in a good 
oven thirty minutes. Always cover bread over with brown paper 
until half done, then it will rise better. 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. f?9 

HOW TO MAKE BREAD WITHOUT YEAST OR HOPS. 

Take three or four potatoes, cook, mash and put them in a one 
quart jar, then add one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt 
and fill the jar with cold water, stir thoroughly, then put on cover 
without the rubber and let it stand till it ferments. When this 
ferments make another jar in the same way and let it stand over 
night. In the morning empty the contents of the two jars into 
the bread bowl, and after mixing well, fill one jar and set away. 
This will be your starter for the next baking. You have one quart 
left for sponge; for the first baking stir in your flour and let it raise, 
then mix stiff, and let raise, then make into loaves, and when raised 
bake. Always make a new jar of the starter the day before you 
bake to mix the next morning with the old jar, so you can take one 
quart for your next baking. This bread raises very quickly, and is 
quite nutritious. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD— No. 1. 

Boston brown bread can be either steamed or baked. It is pre- 
pared in the following manner: 

Take two pounds of sifted graham flour, two pounds of sifted 
rye flour, one-half pound of sifted corn meal, one pint of molasses, 
one-half pound seeded raisins, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one 
level teaspoonful cream of tartar, and one-half teaspoonful soda. 
Mix well into a soft dough with three pints of cold water and mold 
into loaves. Either place the loaves in a steamer and steam them 
for three hours, or place them in quart covered ice cream molds, 
which can be bought very cheaply; immerse the molds in hot water 
and bake in that manner in a hot oven for three hours. 

This recipe will make about three large loaves of Boston brown 
bread. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD— No. 2. 
Three cups sour milk, one cup molasses, one cup corn meal, three 
cups graham flour, one tablespoon salt and one teaspoon of soda; 



70 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

stir all in the sour milk; then add the molasses and stir 
well; after stirring and beating until perfectly smooth, pour into 
well buttered molds; set in a steamer over boiling water and cover 
closely and steam four hours. Remove to a very moderate oven 
fifteen or twenty minutes to dry the top, which is quite moist from 
the steam. Tin fruit cans with the top melted off would make 
good molds. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Three quarts of flour, one cup bread sponge, one pint sweet milk, 
two tablespoonfuls sugar, teaspoonful salt, quarter cup of butter; 
make a hole in the flour and pour in sponge and ingredients; let 
stand an hour or more, then mix into a dough ; when dough is light 
roll and cut into twists; let rise till light, then bake. 

Note. — Or instead of twists, roll one-quarter inch thick, cut with 
large biscuit cutter, crease through the middle with knife handle, 
spread half with melted butter and fold. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take one quart of sponge and add one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoon ful each of lard and butter, and about two-thirds of a 
cup of soft white sugar. Put in enough flour to make a soft dough 
and let raise. When very light, roll the dough about one-half inch 
thick and spread with melted butter, sugar and cinnamon. Roll 
this sheet as you would jelly roll and cut into lengths of one inch. 
Place in pans and allow them to raise again until very light, then 
bake in a rather hot oven. Should not require more than ten 
minutes. 

LIGHT ROLLS. 

To a generous pint and a half of sponge add one heaping table- 
spoonful of butter and lard and the same amount of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and 
flour enough to make a stiff dough. Knead fifteen minutes and 
allow to raise till double in bulk, then, with buttered hands, mold 
into cakes and allow to raise until very light. 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 71 

MILK BREAD WITH SPONGE. 
Scald one pint of milk, add to it one tablespoon butter, one table- 
spoon sugar, and one teaspoon salt. Let stand, and when luke- 
warm add half a cake of Yeast Foam, dissolved in quarter cup warm 
water, and let rise. Stir in one quart of flour and beat well. Let 
rise and when light add enough flour to knead it smooth. Let it 
rise in the bowl, and punch down twice. This is also a good recipe 
for tea biscuits or rolls. To make White Mountain rolls, double 
the quantity of butter, and add a well-beaten white of egg. 



GRAHAM AND RYE BREAD. 

One quart each graham and rye flour. Two tablespoons New 
Orleans molasses, two tablespoons lard or drippings, two teaspoons 
salt, one cake Yeast Foam in five cups water. Make a sponge with 
the graham flour; when light make stiff with the rye. Knead 
until thoroughly mixed, but it will always be a little sticky. Put 
into pans, raise, and bake in slow oven. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take two cupfuls of the sponge after it is raised for the wheat 
bread, thinning it with a little warm water, and two tablespoon fuls 
of molasses, for one loaf. Stir in the graham flour until quite stiff ; 
let it rise again, then stir, adding a little more flour if necessary, 
and place in greased tins ready' for baking ; let it rise again and 
bake in a slow oven. 



GRAHAM PUFFS. 

Beat one egg thoroughly, then add one pint sweet milk, one pint 
graham flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all briskly with a Dover 
b?ater, pour into hot greased gem pans and bake in hot oven. 



72 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

DATE (JEMS. 

One cup of chopped dates, one-third cup butter, one egg, one tea- 
spoon salt, two cups Hour, our cup milk, one teaspoon ful cream of 
tarter, half a teaspoon soda. Sift together the flour, salt, cream oi 
tartar and soda, rub in the butter and dales, mix these in well, and 
stir to a batter with the egg and milk. Bake in hot well-greased 
gem pans in a quick oven. 

BREAD STICKS. 

These are nice lor soups and salads. Take one cup scalded milk 
when it is cooled, one tablespoon sugar, two tablespoons shortening, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-half ounce Yeast Foam dissolved with 
the sugar, in one-fourth cup water; add three cups of flour and 
beat well : let rise till light ; add one cup of Hour; shape in sticks 
about the size of a lead pencil, place in molds, brush the tops with 
melted butter, cover with a damp cloth, and put a dry one on top 
while rising ; when light bake in a quick oven. 

Note. — These sets can be secured in sets of one dozen. 

HEALTH BREAD. 

Is made from whole wheat flour, [less the outer bran] and is speci- 
ally prepared for Pure Food Health Club members and other* 
who may desire to regain their health by this method. This is the 
onlv ujJiole wheat flour endorsed by the National Association of Clubs 
and can usually be secured in your town with Club Endorse at cut, If 
not to be had at your grocers, better write to our Headquarters. 

IIOW TO MAKE THE BREAD. 

Take two quarts of this flour before sitting, then add two tea- 
spoons of salt and one-hall' cup of granulated sugar (or less il de- 
sired). This bread can be raised with either Cream of Tarter and 
Soda or Yeast. [f you use the former sift with the (lour until web 
mixed, four even teaspoons of Cream of Tartar and two of soda, 
then add enough tepid water to make a still' dough and stir thor 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 73 

oughly with ;i wooden spoon or mix with your hands until ii is 
smooth and stiff, then place in a slow oven to raise and when light 
hake with increased heat until it is well done. If you desire to use 
yeast as a raising agent, prepare the flour and other ingredients as 
stated, then use half cake of Yeast Foam or any good dry yeasl 
dissolve in warm water and mix with the flour, using enough tepid 
water to make a stiff' dough, it usually takes about a quart ; then 
let it stand in a warm place until light; punch or cut down with a 
kitchen spatula, let raise again, cut out in well greased pans [if you 
do not have the illuminum bread pans] and place in a hot oven 
until we_ll crusted then bake in a slow heat for about an hour until well 
done. The slow heat will enable you to bake it well in the center which 
is necessary to destroy the yeast germs if you would have a Real Health 
Bread. This quantity makes two loaves of ordinary size. 

It will be seen from the above that bread from this recipe requires 
no kneeding, and its preparation, consequently, is much simpler 
than that of ordinary white bread. All forms of cake made with 
molasses, all fruit cakes, and steamed breads, are much better made 
from this flour ; besides, they keep moist a longer time. This flour 
also makes most excellent gems and griddle cakes, so that those 
who persist in using hot breads will find this flour adapted to their 
purpose, and can at least take advantage of its added nutriment. 

CREAM OF TARTAR AND SODA BISCUITS. 

One quart of sifted flour, to which add two level teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar and one of soda, and one teaspoonful of salt, Stir 
all together thoroughly with the hand, now add one-third cup of 
lard and rub in until smooth. Make into a soft dough using one 
cup of milk or one cup half milk and water, Roll out, cut and 
place in pans, and put in oven as hot as for bread. Bake in fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

EIDERDOWN BISCUITS. 

To two cups of sifted pastry flour, add one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful cream of tartar and one-half teaspoonful of 



74 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

soda. Sift thoroughly. Rub through the Hour with the hands till 
fine one-half tablespoonful of lard. Beat the white of one egg stiff, 

stir into it, one-half cup of sweet milk, and mix into Hour with 
a spoon. Place on the molding hoard and work lightly until 
smooth enough to roll. Roll one-quarter of an inch thick, spread 
one-half with melted butter, fold the other side over and prick with 
a fork. Cut with ;i small biscuit cutter and bake in a quick oven. 

Note. — These biscuits can be made with any good white bread 
flour, hut are very much better made with the pastry Hour. 

Notk. — When the Germania Pastry Flour can he had, by all 
means use it. 

WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 
These are excellent for breakfast. Sift and mix with two cups 
of flour, two teaspoons of cream of tartar and one-teaspoon of soda, 
(even measure) ; use two cups of milk and one teaspoon of salt, Let 
raise some before baking on slow griddle. 



HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 75 

THE ARNOLD STEAM COOKER. 
(Improved Pattern.) 

Is unequaled for Cooking Anything that can be Boiled, Baked or 

Roasted. 

It is constructed ^o that the most effective results are obtained for 

the least amount of fuel, time and trouble. It can be used 

on any kind of stove — Coal, Wood, Oil, Gas or Electric. 




ADVANTAGES. 

A whole dinner can be put in at once, covered up and let alone 

until ready to serve. 
A poor cook cannot spoil the dinner if she tries. 
A good cook can cook better with one than without one. 
The ordinary heat of a cooking stove, or a gas, gasoline, or oil flame 

will generate steam in three minutes. 
No steam or odor escapes into the room. 
The meal can be kept for hours without spoiling. 
It saves nearly one-third of the food that is lost by the ordinary 

methods. 
Everything cooked in it is healthier and more easily digested than 

wheii cooked by any other method. 



76 HOW TO MAKE A LOAF OF BREAD. 

All the nutriment, richness and flavor of the food is retained. 

It saves the labor of watching. 

Burning, scorching, smoking or over-cooking is impossible. 

It never boils over. 

They have a door at the side which enables the user to put in or take 

out any of the kettles without disturbing the other dishes. 
One large enough for a family of ten, holding six gallons and with 

three compartments for Meat, Vegetables and Pudding will cost 

Six Dollars, smaller size less. Orders received at the close of any 

of the Eastman Cooking Schools, or address 

W. F. EASTMAN, 
160 N. Fifth Ave., Room, 326. Chicago, III 



~'No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

— 0. W. Holmes. 



HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 

Butter and lard for pastry should be sweet and solid; the water 
should be ice cold, and the board on which the pastry is rolled 
should be smooth and hard, and a marble slab is the very best. 

The secret of success in making puff paste is making the greatest 
number of layers of butter and dough (alternately), the result of 
folding and rolling; this is accomplished by increasing the amount 
of butter; the more used, the greater number of layers, before it is 
absorbed into the dough. The quantity of butter should never 
exceed the quantity of flour. Pure olive ul is excellent. 



PUFF OR FLAKY PIE CRUST. 

Three cups 'of flour, three-quarters cup of lard, about three-quar- 
ters cup of water, one-quarter teaspoon cream of tartar and soda, aii'i 
with a knife cut it into small pieces (chopping knife is good). Pour 
in the water carefully, stir constantly in with a knife, and do not 
touch with the hands until you have got it altogether. Flour the board 
lightly, and tip out the dough, and in rolling use the rolling-pin 
as lightly as possible, being careful not to break the dough, or the 
lard will be forced through, breaking the air cells. Roll until 
half an inch in thickness, then spread on a layer of butter, dust 
lightly with flour, roll up, stand on end and pat down with the 

77 



78 HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 

rolling pin ; roll carefully the same as before, and spread on another 
layer of butter, using cbout a half a cup for the two layers. Roll 
up again, then roll out with rolling-pin about one-half inch thick, 
line the pie plate with dough; it is better to let it stand on the 
plate for about half an hour before using. Fill the pies, dampen 
the lower edge of the crust with water, place the upper crust on 
loosely (as all pastes shrink in baking). Press the edge of the 
crust firmly together, then cut with a sharp knife, as far out from 
the edge of the plate as possible. Avoid folding the edges of the 
dough under, as it keeps the paste from rising. 



PASTE WITH SUET. 

Chop fine one cup suet, and remove the fibers; rub the suet into 
two cups flour, add one teaspoon salt with one cup ice water. Roll 
out and put on small pieces of butter, which will aid the crust in 
browning. One quarter teaspoon cream of tartar and soda (equal 
parts) may be added if desired. 

This paste is excellent for fruit puddings, and dumplings that 
arc boiled; if it is well made it will be light and flaky. Is also 
nice for meat pies, baked or boiled. 



OLR T E OIL PIE CRUST. 

This crust is made the same as the other recipes, only substitut- 
ing olive oil for lard, butter, suet, etc. Where the oil is used a less 
quantity is needed. 



FINE GRAINED PIE CRUST. 

One cup shortening, lard or lard and butter mixed; three cups 
flour, one teaspoon salt. Sift the flour, add the salt, and rub in 
the shortening. Use enough ice water to hold all together, handlin? 
as little as possible. Roll thin and place on pie plate. One-third 



HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 7;> 

the quantity given is enough for one pie. One-quarter teaspoon 
cream of tartar and soda (equal parts mixed) may be added if 
desired. 

Use any filling desired with these pic crusts. 

In making any kind of a fruit pie, to prevent the juice from 
soaking through coat the bottom crust with the white of an egg. 



MINCE MEAT. 
Four pounds of lean boiled beef chopped fine, tw T ice as much of 
tart apples chopped, one pound of chopped suet, three pounds of 
seeded raisins, two pounds of dried currants, washed and thoroughly 
nicked over, half a pound of minced citron (if liked), two pounds 
of dark brown sugar, one quart of New Orleans molasses, two quarts 
of sweet cider, one tablespoonful each of salt, pepper, mace, allspice, 
cloves, two grated nutmegs and four tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 
Heat in a granite or porcelain lined kettle, stirring often to mix it 
well. Just before removing it from the fire add three pints of good 
boiled cider. Pour into a crock and when cold cover tightly and set 
in a cool place where it will not freeze, but be kept perfectly cool. 
This will keep for a long time. 



MINCE PIE. 
Line a pie plate with rich pastry, fill with mince meat, wet the 
edges of the under crust, place on the upper crust, press the edges 
together, flute with thumb and finger, make holes in top crust 
for vent with a fork, and bake in a quick oven till a nice brown. 
If you wish you can make up a dozen of these pics at a time, as 
they will keep in a cool place, and warm them in the oven as you 
want to use them. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two-thirds of a cup of granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, 
the yolks of three eggs and white of one, beaten stiff, the juice and 



80 HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 

grated rind of one lemon. (In grating the lemon, be sure and 
just grate off the yellow part, and then remove the thick white skin, 
then grate the lemon and press out all the seeds which remove, as 
these and the w T hite skin are very bitter.) After stirring the sugar, 
flour, ego- and lemon juice together, add two-thirds of a cup of cold 
water and stir smooth. Line your pie plate with a good crust, pour 
in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven. When done remove 
and add a meringue made from the whipped whites of the two eggs 
and half a cup of sugar. Spread on nicely with a spatula, place in 
the oven and brown a light brown. This amount will make one 
pie. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat four eggs well, add one-half cup of sugar, quarter of a tea- 
spoon of salt and one quart of sweet milk. Bake with under crust 
only. Bake in slow even oven. If allowed to boil it becomes 
watery. This w r ill make two pies. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One quart of milk heated to boiling, pour over two cups grated co- 
ooanut, two tablespoon fuls of butter, four eggs and one-half cup of 
sugar. Bake in moderate oven. If a meringue is desired, the white 
of one egg can be set to one side and used after the pie comes from 
the oven. Whip the white stiff and add one-quarter of cup of 
sugar, spread on top of the pie, return to oven and brown slightly ; 
sprinkle with grated coooanut. It will make two pies. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line a pie plate with rich pastry, and fill with sliced tart apples. 
Sprinkle quarter of a cup of sugar over, and dot with small piece- of 
butter and sift over a little grated nutmeg. Cover with a sheet 
of pastry with openings cut for the escape of steam. Wet the edge 
of the under crust before placing on the upper, press the edges 
together and cut. Bake a nice brown. 



HOW TO MAKE A PIE. SI 

PEACH PIE. 

Peel, stone and slice ripe peaches. Line a deep pie plate with 
pastry, and lay the peaches in this. Sprinkle thickly with sugar 
and fit on an upper crust, and bake a nice brown. If liked, 
whipped cream may be served on each piece. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Wash and stone the cherries, and fill a pie plate lined with pastry, 
sprinkle over them one cupful of sugar, sift over a tablespoonful of 
flour, dot with small bits of butter, fit on the top crust and bake. 

Where the fruit is very juicy, it is best to coat the lower crust 
with beaten egg before putting in the fruit, as this prevents the 
juice from soaking the crust. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Thoroughly wash and wipe dry stalks of tender rhubarb, slice, and 
fill pie plate lined with pie crust. Sprinkle with a thick layer of 
sugar. Sift a little flour on top, place on the top crust and bake 
slowly. If the very tender rhubarb cannot be had, it is best to 
strip the skin off before slicing. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

When the potatoes are dry and mealy take one quart after they 
have been pared, boiled and mashed, one quart of milk, four eggs, 
salt, nutmeg, cinnamon and sugar to taste. Bake the same as 
squash pies. If the potatoes are very moist use less milk. 

This will make four pies. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

To prepare the pumpkin, cut in halves, remove the seeds, cut in 
moderately small pieces, and bake in the oven till done. Then 



82 HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 

scrape from the shell, press through a colander. Take one pint of 
mashed pumpkin, one quart of rich milk, one and a half cups of 
sugar, four beaten eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of ginger and one of cinnamon. Pour into a pie plate lined with 
good paste, and v ^ke slowly. This will make three pies. 



BANBURYS. 

One cup of seeded raisins and one cup of seeded dates chopped 
fine, one large cracker rolled fine, juice and rind of one orange, 6ne 
cup of sugar, one egg slightly beaten. Mix well together. Roll 
out pastry same thickness as for pie, cut with a large biscuit cutter. 
Put one tablespoonful of the mixture on each piece. Moisten the 
edges of paste with cold water, one-half way round, fold over and 
press the edges together. Prick the top of banbury with fork, and 
bake in moderate oven till a nice brown. If not acid add juice of 
one lemon. 



A Review of ' Marion Harland" on 
Cake Making. 

In the Chicago "Record Herald" of Feb. 6th, '08, under a large 
display head, "SCHOOL FOR HOUSEWIVES" appeared the 
following instructions on home cake making. "To cream butter 
and sugar is to rub the two together in a bowl to the consistency of 
thick cream. Do this with a wooden or silver spoon and keep up 
the motion until the mixture is smooth and in color many shades 
lighter than when you began. It should look like a cream colored 
meringue when ready for the next stage of operations." 

I would not review Marion Harland on cake making if it was 
not for the fact that this paper has gone into so many hundreds of 
thousand homes, and is so very misleading in its character. The 
prominence of the paper and writer render it all the more dangerous 
for the American home. Marion Harland has been an authority 
on cookery forty years and is entitled to be recognized as a leader 
of the old school. Please read again carefully about creaming but- 
ter and sugar, and then answer this question. Could any one living 
by reading that description, tell when butter and sugar is creamed? 
Just preceding this she tells you to have your pans greased. This 
also shows she belongs to the old school. Both these ideas are so 
antiquated that they belong to the ox cart and the jolt wagon days 
of our forefathers. The New Thought in cake making is to never 
use a pan that needs to be greased. All cakes need the support 
that comes from clinging to the pan. The New School of thought 
teaches that butter and sugar are creamed when the granules of 
sugar are all absorbed by the butter. Smooth it down with a 
kitchen spatula and if it looks like plain white butter it is creamed 

83 



84 MARION HARLAND ON CAKE MAKING 

The temperature of the hand is much better for creaming purposes 
than any spoon, in doing this work properly you lay the founda- 
tion for a successful butter cake [f it is not well done the butter 
and sugar will separate, the butter will go to the bottom and the 
sugar to tli«' top and form what is known as a granular cake She 
tells yon to sift the flour with the baking powder. We tell you 
to never use baking powder. After beating the eggs up she tells 
you to "stir in quickly" the milk. 1 supposed every cake maker 
in both the old and new school knew that such a course would cause 
the butter and sugar to separate and ruin the cake. The milk 
should never be stirred until the flour is added. She further says 
to beginners, "do not try your apprentice hand in the fine art of 
cake making upon a loaf. Begin with layers baked in shallow 
pans, with filling of some kind between, or with small cakes baked 
in pate-pans. Care and experience are essential to success in mak- 
ing and baking large loaves of cake." You will notice that she says 
beginners should not try their "apprentice hand" on loaf cakes; 
that '•experience is essential to success*' etc. It' you cannot begin 
until yon get experience, how in the name of common sense are 
von going to get the experience? Such teaching is not only absurd, 
but the acme of folly. It is like saying to a child 'you must not 
try to walk until yon have had experience." Under that kind of 
teaching no one would ever walk. What a spectacle the world 
would present crawling on all fours! The New Thought teaches 
accurately and definitely how to select the right material, how to 
combine it in proper form and how to manage your oven so that 
any child ten years of age with strength sufficient, can make any 
cake from start to finish. Cake making is now reduced to a science 
and a system. In regard to the oven she further says: "You 
must have sustained heat for your cake, an even temperature from 
start to finish." This is absolute lolly. It has led to more disas- 
ters in cake baking than any one thing. The New Thought 
teaches that you should start all cakes as near as possible in a cold 
oven, that the raising period should he separated distinctly from the 



MARION HARLAND ON CAKE MAKING. 85 

baking as in bread making. In other words that you do not need 
baking heat until the cake is raised to the required lightness; and 
then slightly increased heat will bake and brown it. She further 
says: "Test your oven by holding your bare arm in it while you 
count twenty slowly. If it does not burn your arm you may put 
the cake in," but if it does burn your arm she does not tell you what 
to do. That is like the old way of teaching how to tell a mushroom 
from a toadstool ; eat it and if it kills you it is a toadstool, and if it 
does not kill you it is a mushroom. She further says : "Lay a sheet 
of thick white or brown paper over the batter for the first half hour." 
This, she says, is done to hinder the formation of a crust before the 
heart of the cake is cooked. I think this clearly proves thai she 
intends the oven to be hot enough to bake from the first. This is 
the first time I ever heard of cakes being "cooked" in the oven. I 
suppose she means baked ; and yet such confounding of terms is 
very misleading on the part of the teacher. 

In making frosting for the cake she says, "Put it on by the spoon- 
ful letting it run from the top down the sides." She says, "Dry in a 
sunny window." Suppose you did not have any sunny window 
then I suppose your icing would never set. The New Thought 
teaches to make your frosting so it will pile up and lay where you 
put it. Any one who has had any experience in making icing 
knows that is just what you don't want, viz. an icing that will run 
down' the sides. With such teaching as that on cake making is it 
any wonder that young ladies have turned away from the domestic 
arts to look for more congenial employment? It is about as clear 
as mud. How a great paper like the "Record-Herald" could afford 
to print a page in their Sunday issue of such -slush" for intelligenl 
people to read is a mystery that can only be explained by the 
edit' r 



Baking Powder Doomed. 

Phe education of our people through our "Pure Food Reform 
Clubs" Ihe publishing of the facts about all baking powders in our 
literature, and how to bake with pure cream of tartar and soda, and 
ladies do their own mixing, has sounded the doom of all baking- 
powders. Prof. Eastman's book, " How to Make a Pure Food Cuke, 
a Loaf of Bread and a Pie," was the first and only book for some 
time to give the people the facts about the great evil of making and 
using baking powders, and how to do away with them entirely in 
cooking and baking. This cause was taken up by the "National 
Pure Food Health Club Association," and lias become a promi- 
nent part of the Food Reform Movement. If baking powders were 
harmless, the relative cost of them compared with pure cream of 
tartar and soda would doom them. 

baking powder bill 
for families of the United States for one year, not including amount 
used by Hotels, Bakeries, Restaurants, etc. : 

estimate 
on population of 80,000,000, allowing four persons to a family, 
(the usual way to estimate) we would have 20,000,000 families. 
A conservative allowance for each family would be one pound per 
month. Large families would use twice this amount. But at one 
pound per month, twelve pounds would be used per year. At ~)0 
cents per pound, each family would spend $6.00 per year for baking- 
powders. Now multiply your 20,000,000 families by $6.00 and you 
have the enormous sum of $120,000,000 spent annually by tin home 
providers of the United States for baking powders alone. If we 
were to include Hotels, Bakeries and Restaurants, I estimate il would 

86 



BAKING POWDER DOOMED. 87 

double this amount, In our estimate we do not undertake to com- 
pute thedamagt to health caused by the adulterations, such as alum, 
marble dust, gypsum, etc.. found in these proprietary preparations, 
hut we know it is alarming. 

One of the best known physicians of Cleveland, Ohio, told the 
writer recently : " The adulterations found in foods of our day was 
directly responsible for appendicitis and the large horde of nervous 
disorders. No doubt among the enemies of our health and home, 
baking powdi rs lead them all." If we consider the health and finan- 
cial feature of this problem', we are appalled at the magnitude of [it. 
Such an evil should be forbidden by law, but if the 'baking powder 
trust has so much money that they can prevent any such legisla- 
tion, then our only recourse is to publish the facts in our literature 
and from the Rostrum, and teach our people to avoid it as they 
would a pest-house. I am sure the people will never consent to 
this outrageous expenditure when they once learn how to bake 
without it. In our Schools and Club Work, we teach them how. 
If American families spend $120,000,000 annually for baking pow- 
ders and the Hotels, Bakeries, Restaurants, etc.. spend as much 
more, and if we leave out of our estimate the injury to health, loss 
of time, doctor and drug bills and at last burial expenses, (all of 
which must be paid) if we leave these last items out of our esti- 
mated cost, we still have the modest sum of $240,000,000 to pay. 
Other nations that allow the manufacture and sale of tin's class of 
goods must pay their tribute t<> this octopus. 

THE BAKING POWDER HABIT 

is more insidious and destructive than any other national vice; be- 
cause it attacks the home and is administered by fair hands, that 
should be lifted in blessing and not with potions of poison. This 
enormous robbery, this blighting, withering curse, does not come 
upon the rich alone. The bulk of if falls upon the great middle 
'•lass, who toil, for they are always in the majority. It comes upon 
the poor laboring men of our country, who should be protected and 
not robbed. 



88 BAKING POWDER DOOMED. 

Is it any reply to this to say there arc cheap baking powders for 
the poor as well as high priced ones for the rich. 

The Pure Food Commissioner of Illinois (Sec report 1905.) had 
sixty-nine different brands of baking powders analyzed by two 
chemists of Chicago, (a man and woman, both working separately.) 
Sixty-nine different kinds — (covering the well known and the ob- 
scure.) Surely a fair and representative test, and this is their 
report: "None pure; all adulterated; average per cent. 100." 
Think of this ! What an awful arraignment of your favorite 
baking powder. One-half of every can you buy is worthless, if not 
poisonous. 

Remember, paid odoertisements about these marvelous compounds 
are not sworn statements, and if they were they would not change 
the chemist's analysis. The pure food laws are evaded by plain 
lying and the art of deception, and all for the dollar. The way the 
law now stands you can lie all over the label on the package, pro- 
vided you will tell the truth somewhere about what is inside. By 
searching, it is easy to find on most labels, evasive or contradictory 
statements. Sometimes the truth is told about alum being used, but 
it is to be found under the lid, where it would not be observed in 
removing the cover. Sometimes it is printed in the technical 
language of chemistry, where lime and alum arc used, to deceive 
the masses. 

Lime is also used to plaster houses. To call it "clorate of calcium" 
does not make it less harmful. To call alum " anhydrus basic 
sulphate of alumina " does not change it from being a cheap mineral 
acid made from clay. It can never be a harmless substitute for 
pure cream of tartar, a fruit acid. Alum is a powerful astringent. 
it is used to fix colors iu dyeing establishments, and to tan some 
kinds of leather. Are we wrong then in saying, if you want your 
stomach tanned in good shape for the undertaker, go on using 
baking powder*/ If you don't want the expense and sorrow, qui I 
using it. to-day and forever. It is no answer to say, "But some are 
better than others." " We use the best." 1 low do you know you do? 



BAKING POWDER DOOMED. 89 

According to chemical analysis they all rob you. Is it right for you 
to consent to be robbed? When people are educated to look this 
giant evil squarely in the face, we believe they will quit using it, 
You cannot be a consistent 'pure food advocatt and do so. But do 
you say, "I make my own, hence I know what is in it," The very 
firm •• baking powder," is only another name for adulterated cream 
of tartar and soda, for some filler must be used, if it is only corn 
starch, to keep the two from crystalizing. Then why make baking 
powder at all, and put yourself in such a bad class. Do you say 
you do it because it is easier to use it that way than pure cream of 
tartar and soda? We say not so, when you know how to use the two. 

OUR REMEDY FOR THE EVIL. 

Buy pure cream of tartar and soda by the pound or half pound. 
Learn how to measure and use it of us. Then you will have no 
failures and save over three-fourths of your baking powder bill. 
All your food will taste better and be better. You can buy pun 
cream of tartar and soda in any good grocery store, for thirty-five to 
forty cents per pound for the cream of tartar and eight to ten cents 
per pound for your soda. Then you have two pounds of raising 
power instead of one pound of baking powder for forty-five to fifty 
cents per pound. In cream of tartar baking powder, if there were 
no adulterations in it, you would still payforty-five to fifty cents per 
pound for the soda in it, You can buy the cream of tartar for 
fifteen cents less per pound than in baking powder, and your soda 
for one-fifth of what it cost you in the best brands of baking 
powder. Why pay fifty cents per pound for soda just to get baking- 
powder companies to mix it for you, and run the risk of the adul- 
terations added to make it weigh, when you can learn from us for 
a small sum of one dollar, and do your own measuring and mixing? 

There is no use for us to teach you the evil of the "Baking Pon- 
der Habit," unless we teach you how to use cream of tartar and 
soda instead. Our way is the old way improved. We use the 
quarter, half and whole teaspoon to measure with. Then we arc 
always accurate and have no failures. Guessing, and guessing wrong 



90 BAKING POWDER DOOMED. 

for thirty-five cents by mail, and our book in cloth cover, "How 
to Make a Pure Food Cake, a Loaf of Bread and a Pie," 
$1.25. This is the only book in print that teaches you how to 
bake pure food things scientifically. How to make them with 
cream of tartar and soda, and save at least three-fourths of your 
baking powder bill. Instead of American homes spending $120,- 
000,000 annually for baking powders, it will be $30,000,000 or even 
less. This vast sum of $00,000,000 annually is now lost. It is sent 
off to New York and other centers for this dreadful habit of waste. 
It yon adopt our way, it will be kept in circulation at home. It 
will help to clothe and educate the children. ' It will help pay the 
rent. 

OUR REFORM 

if adopted by the American housewife, will liberate these millions of 
dollars and keep them in healthful channels of trade. Our method 
will greatly improve the dinner-pail of the working man. Pure 
foods and good cooking will give men better nourishment and 
thereby help to cure the drink evil. On; remedy can be installed 
in every American home, for one dollar for each home. Think what 
a vast power this is for good and the small sum it takes to promote 
it. We have already put it in a few hundred thousand homes, 
that are now rejoicing. We want you, dear reader, to help us put it 
in all the rest. Then and only then, will this giant evil (baking 
powder) he destroyed. Let us appeal to yon then, as a pure food 
advocate, as a home-lover, as an educator, as a 'philanthropist, as a 
patriot, help us to stamp out this evil from the earth. Then the 
future generations may grow up strong and free. 
Address 

National Pure Food Health Club, 

160 N. Fifth Avenue, Chicago, 111. 



NOTE— If you want the l>ook aent l>y mail, add ten rpnts for mailing. Measuring Spoon by mail, add ten 
cents tor mailing. Total $1.80, money order or bank draft. 



SUPPLEMENT 



CHAPTEE ONE. 

The Human Body, and How to Care For It. 

The human body is the grandest and most wonderful creation o\ 
God, the greatest piece of mechanism, an atom in space, a mere 
molecule of matter, held to the earth by force we call gravity ; thai 

moves and utters sounds, that can be understood, that thinks, that 
anticipates things to come; that remembers things that were, 
and that struggles with another atom for place and power. The 
brain composed of over three billion nerve cells, upon which it de- 
pends for place, position, and daily bread. Of GOO known as the 
cerebrospinal nervous system. The brain in the head acting as a 
switchboard for nerves that carry messages every moment to and 
from the brain; of 725,000,000 air cells in the lungs, which require 
fresh air every moment; of 1,000,000 libers in sight nerves that 
need care. That in the blood of the normal size body, there are 
twenty-two billion red corpuscles, and fifty million white ones, and 
these atoms of energy are traversing every part of the body day and 
night, as fast as they can, in their efFor* to keep the body strong, 
muscular and healthy. And that every particle of bad food that 
is eaten, and every drink of beer, whiskey, or any other stimulant 
or narcotic that is taken as a bracer and substitute for proper food • 
and that every breath of impure air breathed had the cl'U'vi of de- 
feating the purpose of the millions of little workers, deadening and 
destroying them by the thousand-, disarranging the whole system, 
which is the cause of sickness, and finally death. 

To obviate this and to eliminate disease and suffering, every per- 
son should intelligently understand the human body, hygiene, diel 
and the proper combination of foods; should observe the natural 
laws of ventilation, circulation, physical culture, including the 

01 



92 SUPPLEMENT 

mind and spirit, eating and bathing and carefully cultivate each 
part of the physique, with no other object in view, except to make 
them perform in the highest degree the functions for which nature 
intended them. 

Drugs and Narcotics Do Not Heal. 

The common practice of prescribing and recommending medi- 
cines without having the case properly diagnosed by your family 
physician, and the giving of medicines indiscriminately is wrong 
and pernicious. The giving of drugs and medicines to remedy ills 
without compelling obedience to natural law, should be condemned 
by both the physician and people. Take the simplest and most 
common disorders, constipation and sick headaches, and indigestion ; 
ninety per cent, of these ailments come from overeating and seden- 
tary habits. The people, and many doctors, would remedy this 
with pills and medicine; we would remedy it by physical culture. 
by proper diet, by proper combination of foods, and limiting the 
amount of food to the natural demand of the system. While medi- 
cine may cure yon for a few days, the other remedy would cure yon 
permanently, and build your body to its natural and normal con- 
dition. If you violate the laws of nature, it imposes pain as a pen- 
alty, [f you succeed in defeating it with some drug or chemical, 
you cannot escape ; you will be caught and punished for two crimes 
instead of one. We do not wish to antagonize the physician, whom 
we consider lias adopted a noble profession, in alleviating the sntler- 
ing of humanity, but we believe the future office of the physician 
will be as a teacher and he will be paid like a lawyer for advice in- 1 
stead of drugs. The methods pursued by venders of patent medi- 
cines should be looked into, — men who crush truth, integrity and 
honor, and sometimes even commit forgery, in order to exploit their 
stuffs, that the weakened, sick and suffering humanity may be in- 
duced to buy many of their worthless nostrums. They should be 
regulated by each State. The legislature of each State should enact 
laws compelling manufacturers of patent medicines to give their 



SUPPLEMENT 93 

formulas, so as to determine whether they are iit to be taken 
internally, or whether they should be stamped "poison" and be 
used for external purposes only. 

Diet. 

For ages, athletes and professors of hygiene have been studying 
what to eat and what not to eat, the proper combination of foods, and 
their nutritious and chemical values ; but the chef and cook have 
been studying what best to please the palate and stomach. The 
French chefs have led the world in making fancy dishes; others 
have followed. There is constant war between appetite and com- 
mon sense. Between the French idea and the "home and food reform 
idea" Our clubs represent. You must understand there is quite a 
difference between appetite and hunger. Appetite is a call made by 
perverted nature, for something with which to fill up the stomach ; 
hunger is a call made by nature to replace tissue that has been 
wasted in effort. Appetite is in the stomach, hunger is felt in the 
month and throat, hence the liquor habit is the voice of hunger or 
malnutrition. Appetite W^-ds and gormandizes, hunger eats and en- 
joys ; appetite wants quantity, hunger requires quality as well as 
quantity. If it is denied these the liquor and narcotic habit follow. 
We cannot agree on any universal health bill of fare; because he- 
redity and environment have made and bred people so vastly differ- 
ent, that a fixed diet becomes impossible. Each individual must se- 
lect for himself an agreeable diet, the proper combinations, and the 
limitation upon the quantity. But everyone should understand the 
proper combinations of foods, which is the cause of nearly all stomach 
disorders. One of the greatest scientists said, that the oven ami fry- 
ing pan had done more harm to the human race than war, pestilence 
and famine. But modern hygienic cookery seeks to remedy all this. 
if we could arrest the fermentation in the stomach, man might live 
on indefinitely There can be no such thing as fermentation in the 
stomach, if one eats only elementary foods (uncooked foods, well 
masticated,) or has the right combination when cooked. Hence we 



9* SUPPLEMENT 

would advist jvery person desirous of overcoming indigestion and 
stomach disorders to eal as many uncooked foods as possible, or 
when foods are cooked, to combine them properly, never mixing 
fruits and vegetables together, milk and vegetables, or milk and meat. 
Never drink with meals, but just before eating; and aboul an hour 
and a half after eating is best. If you urns! drink after eating, drink 
slowly. Good Combinations of Foods are : grain and fruits, grains 
and milk, grain and vegetables and grain and meat, or eggs. 

A Faii; Combination is gram, sweet frail and milk, or meat and 
vegetables. The foods agree best whose chief constituent ele- 
menl is digested by the same fluid in the same part of the alimen- 
tary canal and in about the same length of time. Fruits remain but a 
short time in the stomach; but the large amount of saccharine 
matter which the fruit contains makes it likely to set up a fermen- 
tation if retained in the stomach too long, and therefore should not 
be eaten with vegetables or meat. If taken with vegetables or meat 
(which contain a great amount of coarse and woody structures and 
fibers which arc retained in the stomach a long time before they are 
sufficiently broken up,) tobedigested in the intestines, fermentation 
will follow. Milk also is retained in the stomach only a shorttime; 
its digestion being carried on chiefly in the small intestines. There 
fore meal and milk are a bad combination, for the same reason. 
Milk, when taken with meat or vegetables, being long retained in 
the stomach, undergoes fermentation resulting in sour stomach and 
biliousness. Especially mixing acid fruits with vegetables is bad 
combination as the starch is more difficult of digestion than that of 
fruit. 

The 1 >igestive Fluids. 

In the human system we have five digestive fluids : the saliva, the 
gastric juice, the bile, the pancreatic juice, and the intestinal juice- 
And we must also understand there are five <li</(x/il>/< food element*. 
viz : starch, albumen, fats, sugars and salts. We will now consider 
the use of each digestive fluid in relation to the various food elements. 



SUPPLEMENT 

The Saliva. 
The saliva contains a peculiar principle, which when brought 
in contact with boiled starch converts it into maltose. By careful 
mastication starch foods arc largely predigested in the mouth. In 
acting upon the starch the saliva produces first soluble starch, then 
dextrine, and finally malt sugar. The conversion into sugar consti- 
tutes the digestion of starch ; it is necessary, however, that starch 
should be cooked, as saliva cannot digest raw starch. 

The Gastric Juice — Pepsin, one of the active principles of the 
gastric juice, acts upon the albuminous elements of the food, such as 
egg albumen, the fiber of meat, gluten of grain, casein of milk, etc. 
By its action on all these various substances, they are converted into 
one simple substance known as peptone, which is readily absorbed 
in the blood ; while the undigested albumen of raw egg cannot be 
digested to any great extent, and passes almost wholly unchanged 
through the stomach and intestines, and if absorbed would be of no 
use in the system. The gastric juice prepares the food for further 
digestion by dissolving the substance by which the various elements 
of the food arc held together. The gastric juice also acts as a disin- 
fectant and antiseptic. So you will understand that the gastric juice 
is exceedingly important, as it prevents fermentation in the stomach 
before digestion can take place. 

The Bile — The bile's action is wholly upon the fatty portions of 
the food. If oil and water are shaken together in a bottle, they 
quickly separate when the shaking ceases. Gum. water and oil when 
shaken together, form a milky mixture, in which the oil and water 
do not separate, and which may be diluted with water, the same as 
milk. The bile acts upon fats in the same manner. It is also ;i 
powerful antiseptic and disinfectant. 

Tin: Pancreatic Juice— The pancreatic juice digests starch, al- 
bumen and fats. The pancreatic juice does the work of all three of 
the digestive fluids, and is a very important factor in digestion. 

Tin; Intestinal Ilice— The Intestinal Juice possesses one char- 
acteristic digestive property, cane sugar being digested only in the 



90 SUPPLEMENT 

small intestines, and by the action of the intestinal juice. The in- 
testinal juice also digests starch, fats and albumen, and together 
with the other digestive fluids, acts upon the salts of the food. By 
this wonderful system and properties of the digestive fluids, diges- 
tion is made easy, and the stomach and the human body is protect- 
ed from the millions of germs and other impurities taken internally 
every day. You can now readily understand how nature is protect- 
ing us daily from all impurities, disease and germ life. 

The Use of Fats — Undoubtedly fat is an element of nutrition, 
and can be digested and assimilated when taken in the proper 
quantities, and in the proper manner; but the excessive use of fats 
of various kinds, such as lard, suet, butter, and other animal and 
vegetable fats and oils, is a prolific cause of certain forms of indi- 
gestion. The free use of fats greatly reduces the biliary secretion ; 
the quantity of bile becomes diminished in some instances to a very 
small fraction of the amount produced when only pure water or food 
containing little fat is taken. When it is remembered that bile is 
an essential (dement for the digestive fluid, in connection with the 
taking of an extra quantity of fatty matter, sufficient bile is not 
available and is a most unfortunate circumstance, since it is thus 
absent when most needed. The diminished quantity of the bile 
produced by the liver is also sufncienl cause tor the condition estab- 
lished by the overuse of fats, known by the expressive term "Bilious." 
The remedy is eat less fats. 

When it is remembered that the bile is the antiseptic agent, by 
which the contents of the small intestines are preserved from decom- 
position, it will readily be seen that a deficiency of bile must result 
in decomposition of food elements, and the formation of poisonous ele- 
ments. The absorption of these substances further disturbs the liv- 
er, contaminates the body, and produces a condition of general poi- 
soning. Fats undergo decomposition in the stomach, especially 
when it is dilated so that the food is too long retained, or in one 
which is the seat of gastric catarrh. It is on this account that fats, 
even in the form of butter, when mingled with the food, as in rich 



SUPPLEMENT 97 

gravy or in the shortening of pie-crust, are so often a source of irri- 
tation and disturbance to dyspeptics. The use of rich foods is nol 
infrequently the cause of bilious headachesor bilious attacks. Animal 
fats are more likely to undergo decomposition than are the vege- 
table fats. Ordinary butter is particularly unwholesome, for the rea- 
son that it always contains multitudes of microbes, derived from the 
milk, which arc rapidly developed in the stomach, producing de- 
composition of the fats, and thus forming irritating fatty acids. Only 
sterilized butter is fit for human consumption. Cooked fats, if 
burned at all, are much more irritating, and much more likely to 
produce indigestion, than uncooked fats. The process of ordinary 
cooking develops acrid fatty acids, which are extremely irritating to 
the gastric mucous membrane. 

This is one of the reasons why fried or fricasseed foods, griddle 
cakes, doughnuts, Saratoga chips, etc., are so harmful to digestion. 
Fats taken in the form of cream are generally more digestible than 
in any other way. In some cases, however, there is an inability to 
digest the casein of milk in the form of cream ; for such cases, steril- 
ized butter is preferred. The least harmful mode of using a -free fat 
is in the form of sterilized butter taken with cold bread. Melted fat 
taken with farinaceous substances is extremely hurtful, as the 
starchy particles are so completely surrounded and permeated by 
the fat that the saliva, which should act upon the starch in the 
stomach is unable to do so, thus leading to indigestion. 

The [Jse of Sugar. — While sugar is capable of aiding in the 
maintenance of life, when employed with the other elements of 
food, if used in excess, it becomes a serious source of disease. When 
a larger quantity is taken than can be absorbed promptly, or when 
taken in such form as to make ready absorption impossible, as in 
the case of preserves and sweet meats of various sorts, acid fermen- 
tation will occur, and not only with serious results to the stomach, 
but to the whole system. The fermentation set up not only develops 
gases and acids from the sugar, but being communicated with the 
other elements of the food, as the starch and especially the fatty ele- 



08 SUPPLEMENT 

merits, the worse forms of fermentation or decomposition occur, and 

the food is rendered unfit to nourish the body, while the mucous 
membrane of the stomach and intestines is irritated by the contact 
of unnatural corroding elements in the food, and through their ab- 
sorption, the whole system becomes affected. 

Vinegar. — Vinegar is so often adulterated, and even in the pure 
state, it is very irritating to the digestive organs ; as its exciting nat- 
ure makes it extremely debilitating to the stomach, it should be 
used very sparingly, or not at all. Ordinary vinegar contains about 
5 per cent, of acetic acid, its principal ingredient, and many of the 
vinegars put on the market to-day contain but little, if any at all, of 
real apple juice ; their acidity being due mostly to sulphuric acid. 
Such vinegar is even more destructive to the digestive organs. Be- 
sides, in the pure cider vinegar, the vinegar eels are always to be 
found, which take up their abode in the alimentary canal, and be- 
come intestinal parasites. We recommend the use of lemons and 
limes as a dressing for salads and other vegetable foods, as a substi- 
tute for vinegar. 

Tea and Coffee. — Tea and coffee are objectionable as other bev- 
erages in connection with meals, (and more thorough mastication re- 
moves the desire) on account of their disturbing the digestion, dilu- 
ting and consequent weakening of the gastric juice, and by over- 
taxing the absorbents, thus delaying the digestion of food, and giv- 
ing rise to fermentation. 

Both tea and coffee contain an clement resembling tannin, which 
precipitates or neutralizes the pepsin of the gastric juice, and so 
weakens its digestive power. 

Caffein AND Thein — The active principles of tea and coffee, are 
toxic elements which diminish the activity of the glands of the 
stomach by which the gastric juice is formed, thus interfering with 
the digestion of the albumen and other proteid substances. 

A late coffee put up liy a New Y"rk firm called "Elite Coffee," overcomes the objections t.. the use of com- 
mon coffee. It is composed of some coffee, just enough to give it flavor, and cereals. The coffee stimulates* 
and the cereals nourish and strengthen the hody Thanks to science. Ask your grocer for it. 



SUPPLEMENT 99 

Alcohol. — Alcohol irritates the gastric mucous membrane, it 
causes degeneration of the secret glands of the stomach, and when 
taken in quantities is almost fatal to life as prussic acid or strych- 
nia. It precipitates the pepsin of the gastric juice, rendering it 
inert. 

Adulterations of Food. — The adulterations of food which are 
now so universally practiced, in contempt of law and decency, is 
recognized by our leading scientists as the cause of a great deal of 
the functional disease of the stomach. The alum in bread and 
baking powder, fruit and vegetables canned in tin cans, vinegar con- 
taining sulphuric and other mineral acids, pickles boiled in copper 
or brass vessels, sugar made from corn and refuse starch, flavoring 
extracts made by purely chemical process, and containing none of 
the extracts of fruits after which they are named, drinking water 
which has been passed through lead water pipes — these, with many 
other equally harmful adulterations, are the active causes of indiges- 
tion and other ailments. 

Hard Water. — It is best to boil hard water, so as to precipitate 
the lime. Experience has often proved that the use of hard water 
impairs the mucous membrane of the stomach, when long continued. 
The cause of this injurious effect is attributed to the lime and mag- 
nesia which are contained in hard water. Where there areno soft water 
wells or springs, rain water should be caught and preserved in cis- 
terns, and by boiling and filtering through carbon filters, made pure 
for cooking and drinking purposes. 

Baking Powders. — Baking Powder for the same reason, shoi d 
not be used. The numerous compounds with ammonia and alum 
in baking powder, are also objectionable ; being alkaline, they an- 
tagonize the action of the gastric juice, and thus weaken digestion ; 
all area fruitful cause of appendicitis. Many baking powders con- 
tain alum, and nearly all contain more or less ammonia. Both of 
these substances have been shown to be extremely detrimental to 
the digestive organs. Ammonia when used as a raising agent, is 
driven oil' by the heat only to a small extent, a sufficient amount 



100 SUPPLEMENT 

remaining to occasion great damage to the digestive functions. 
All linking should be raised with pure cream of tartar and soda, and 
the right proportion of each secured. 

Pressure Upon the Stomach. — The stomach is remarkably sen- 
sitive to pressure; it sometimes becomes temporarily paralyzed by 
cncos in eating, or by the accumulation of gas and fermentation, 
by the distension of its walls. Tiie wearing of corsets, and tight lac- 
ing are common causes of dyspepsia. Wearing the pantaloons 
drawn tight, without suspenders, has a similar effect upon men. 

Breathing. — -Our greatest scientists claim that all disease and 
ailments are caused from had blood. We therefore can all readily 
understand how important it is to breathe pure air, the greatest ele- 
ment in all the force of nature. For the purifying of the blood we 
must depend on the pure air in breathing. It is a well-known fact 
that the blood is tin- scavenger of the body ; it leaves the heart a 
bright red, laden with poison it has collected from dead and decay- 
ing tissues ; it returns to the lungs a dark purple. Now it is neces- 
sary for it to come to the lungs to be purified with the oxygen we 
breathe. 

A pair of lungs in the normal size contain over seven hundred 
million of air cells ; there are several million tiny canals through 
which the blood in the body comes into the lungs to meet the air 
every two minutes. The poison collected by the blood on its jour- 
ney through the body is passed through the air in the lungs, and 
breathed out through the nostrils. Therefore deep breathing is the 
secret of a perfect physical and muscular development, and leading 
teachers throughout the country are teaching diaphragmatic breath- 
ing, considering it the most potent factor in the great question of 
health. In the new system of physical culture, more attention is 
paid in making the vital organs healthy, so they will perform their 
functional duties, than to the developing of the muscles, as taught 
by the old system. If you will only practice diaphragmatic breath- 
ing ten minutes in the morning and ten minutes at night, you will 
not he afflicted with human ills. Strength and vitality do not come 



SUPPLEMENT KM 

from the food we eat, so much as from the air we breathe. Kood 
simply replaces the tissues which we .wear out through the day : air 
to the human body is not only a purifying factor, but gives ener- 
gy and force. Remember the blood flows through your body, and 
distributes to the muscles, nerves and brain, and to your endless 
millions of life cells. By eating the right food, and combining it 
properly it is manufactured into blood, by this wonderful machine 
of ours, the human body. By taking the proper exercise and by 
knowing how to breathe properly so as to keep the blood pure, sick- 
ness and contagion would be simply impossible. Always remember 
our real mental and physical force is automatic. It conies from 
right breathing and the right attitude of the mind. It also comes 
from the stomach and the food we eat. The mind and stomach are 
closely related in promoting health. The food we eat is to replace 
the wasted tissues, and manufacture the blood. The average man 
and especially the average woman, uses only one-third of the lungs, 
by breathing only one-third of the air necessary : but they will till 
their stomach with three times the amount of food they can assimi- 
late or conv< it into energy. Many people believe that the chest 
should be in the region of the diaphragm when filling the lungs 
with air, in order to expand the chest. This keeps the air from en- 
tering the lower part of the lungs, and eauses a great deal of chest 
breathing. 

The sheet of muscles called the diaphragm, which acts as the 
floor of the chest, located at the bottom of the ribs, and serves as a 
roof for all the abdominal muscles; it is simply impossible for the 
organs of the vital center system to be kept in a healthy condition, 
and be provided with room to perform their work properly without 
diaphragmatic breathing, which calls into using the entire lung ca- 
pacity, and expanding and contracting the diaphragm with each 
respiration. Women should not wear corsets when they practice 
deep breathing, as this necessitates breathing from the top of the 
lungs. The proper method of breathing is as follows : start breath- 
ing slowly, mentally counting one. two. three, four, five, as you in- 



L02 SUPPLEMENT 

hale, at the same time, expanding the abdomen ; the expansion ris- 
ing gradually from the abdomen to the ribs, then it'rises to the 
chest, expanding air very little ; now hold the air for a second or 
two, then exhale slowly, counting as before, one, two, three, four, 
five, at the same time the abdominal muscles should be allowed to 
recede slowly. Always inhale through the nostrils and exhale 
through the mouth, keeping the mouth nearly closed. 

OUR MESSAGE TO WELL PEOPLE. 

If the human body is so delicately constructed as we have seen ; 
if this body is our house to live in ; is our home during our earth 
life, and our happiness and our success all depend upon its proper 
care, bow all important then is our education, our knowledge of all 
the functions of the human body ; in their related parts to each other 
and to the food we eat, the way we eat it and the air we breathe and 
the way we breathe it ; for these are to be speedily transferred unto 
brain and brawn, thought power and physical force. If you had to 
get a license to run your human machine, how many of you who 
read this, could pass the examination ? 

A man has to know all about an "auto" before he can get a li- 
cense to run it ; he lias to be aide to not only steer it in the road. 
but to repair it if disabled while in service. He must know all the 
parts and their uses, he must be able to dissect it, to take it apart 
and put it together again. Do you say this is necessary education? 
Then bow much more so must be the careful training of every man, 
woman and child in the proper care of their body. 



CHAPTER TWO. 
How To Be Healed 



If you are afflicted with any kind of sickness or a chronic 
disease, and you want healing', there is one question that 
rises up before you "FOUR SQUARE 1 '. It is the supreme 
question of the hour, DO YOU KNOW GOD? DO YOU 
KNOW THE ONE LIVING AND SUPREME BEING? Be- 
loved, you should know that the final decision of your case 
rests with God; it does not rest with man. We can only 
assist you by bringing you to Him and holding you up by 
our arms of faith. Healing, in all ages, has been possible 
only when two parallel lines, one visible, the other invisible, 
have been invoked. One we call Physical, the other we call 
Spiritual. Both derive their power over disease from the 
same source. They are never in conflict. The power of God 
must be invoked that is Supreme over all if you are to be 
cured, whether it be according to known or unknown laics; 
back of and over all to control and heal stands the author of 
life. Hence the supreme question is, "do you know god?" We 
do not ask, Do you know about Him? Some only know Him 
in this way. Alas, some poor souls have never even heard about 
God. There are many living to-day who only know about Him, 
as they know any historical character. There is a great deal 
of preaching in our days about God, that does not lead people 
to know Him. REMEMBER, nothing can take the place of 
personal knowledge of God. To know God is to understand a 
great deal about the laws of health and life and to trust Him 
where the light of faith alone can shine. 

No one can teach wisely BIBLE HEALING unless he 
studies both the Physical and Spiritual Jesus Christ healed 

103 



104 SUPPLEMENT 

ten lepers at one time. Their leprosy was cured. They all bad 
faith enough for that, but only one received spiritual healing 
\\ ith the physical, "and he was a Samaritan." Some people are 
still content with partial results. How often we hear them say, 
"I do not expect to be wholly cured, hut if I could only he 
helped so that I could walk again" or "sec 1 to get around, I 
would he satisfied." On all such Jesus cast his look of compas- 
sion and we hear him say, "If thou hadst known the gift of 
God." Healing is a divine gift. God calls to you to-day say- 
ing, "Wilt thou he made whole?" Hence we want to impress 
upon you the importance of a reverent study of God. Make up 
your mind to seek Him as men seek worldly fortunes. Make 
it your business to seek, to knock at this door of inexhaustible 
help. Commence now to search for the "old paths" and walk 
therein, and God says, "Ye shall find rest for your souls." God 
has called us to teach you the way; to show the people the old 
paths that have been obscured by doubt and grown over by 
weeds so long. 

To this work of faith and love and Bible study we add the 
latest thought in food study. We teach the value of a proper 
diet for both well and sick people. Many ailments will readih 
yield to this mode of treatment. We are learning gradually 
that what we eat and how we eat it have much to do in making 
us sick or well. Abdominal breathing and physical culture 
are all part of the same divine plan, to bring men to know God. 
Beloved, if your study and seeking have not led you out far 
enough from yourself to find God, you have only caught the 
shadow and missed the substance. 

DIFFICTLTIKS IX THE WAY. 

Some are real; some are only imaginary. But the very mo- 

nent you set yourself the task of seeking God in a reverent 

study of Bible healing, and take up with us also the study 

of "Pure Foodx " free from all kinds of poisonous substances, 

found in baking powders and other sinful and wicked mercha.ii- 



SUPPLEMENT 105 

dising and careless cooking; the very moment yon take up 
this study for the purpose of finding out the truth, from that 
moment you will begin to be free from the bonds of clouded 
thinking and evil habits of eating and cooking. The evidence 
is so convincing, the light of truth so rejuvenating that you 
will say with Mary of old, "All hail!" "God hath visited 
and redeemed his people." The promise is "to all who seek, 
they shall find." "To all who knock the door shall be opened." 

CONQUER DIFFICULTIES IN HIS NAME. 

God says, "They that overcome shall eat of the fruit from 
the tree of life." Storms of adversity may blow. Property 
may vanish away in a night. Trusted friends may prove 
recreant. Cherished hopes for years may have to be given 
up; a new alignment made. Sickness may come; loved ones 
may be taken away. Yet having started out with us to find 
the truth that makes "free in deed;' say with all your heart, 
mind, and strength, "This one thing I do, forgetting the things 
that are behind, I press forward." In these words of Paul. 
you have the thought of a conquering hero; you cannot fail. 
God says of all such, "They shall be mine on that day when 
I make up my jewels." 

Behold! "I have set before you an open door." No man can 
shut it. He that tries to climb up to health and God somo 
other way, Jesus says, "is a thief and a robber." 

The sad thing about all this is, some men will not seek 
God for help until they have exhausted every other refuge* 
they will not apply to their BEST FRIEND as long as an 
enemy will trust them. Sorrow and affliction seem necessary 
to cause some men to look up. David said, "Before I was 
afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep thy law." The hands 
of God are full of blessing for those who seek Him early 
and yet he never turns any away. You may live for years 
by the side of a man and you will never know him until you 
trust him. My friends, you will never know God until you 



L06 SUPPLEMENT 

trust Him. When you Learn how to take your troubles to 
(Jo<l and trust lliiu to help you, Be will take them all away. 
When you roll your troubles upon others, they will roll back 
upon you like the stone Sisyphus. But God buries them in a 
grave and marks on it, "No resurrection." He says, "If we 
forsake our sins, he will not remember them againsl us. ' 
Brother, Sister, do you not want to know such a friend as 
that, so patient, so loving, so forgiving. Do you ask, "Where 
can I find ^im? ,, If I wanted to find a man T did no! know, I 
would want to know his habits. If he were a hard drinker I 
would look for him around saloons. If he were a counterfeiter, 
I would look for a man in disguise who did not advertise his 
calling. Yet if he were a great church man, I would look for 
him around religious gatherings. But if I wanted to find 
(rod in Christ, and find Him at once, I should seek Him as he 
went about doing good. I should go to believers when sick and 
in trouble and see how He could help them. Some men will 
tell you they are not looking for trouble, but Jesus Christ 
looked for people with trouble daily, and lie still looks for 
them. If, then, you want to find Jesus quickly, try to help 
some one else that is sick or in trouble of any kind, and see 
how quick Jesus will join your company. He has said He 
will be with us in six (rials and not forsake us in the seventh. 
In all the <l«rh- and hard places in life where men are tried and 
tempted and discouraged, where others fail and flee, I would 
look for Jesus to help and save. When Peter kept his eye on 
Jesus he, too, could walk on the water, but when he took it 
off to look at the storm and wave he at once began to sink. 
But Jesus saved him, and He can save you. 

JESUS CAME TO SHOW US GOD'S POWER AND HOW TO HELP MEN. 

When so many are going astray and making- crooked paths, 
how blessed it is to find the footprints of Jesus, that the storms 
of centuries cannot blot out. Let the wind of doubt blow, let 
criticism rage,. but the power of that matchless life grows year 



NOTE— Jesus taught the people the IMMANENCE oj "-•• -.1 only as they erasped this truth were they 
helped In every age this is true. 



SUPPLEMENT 1U7 

by year. He lias met every want of man, physical, mental, and 
moral, with the boundless power of truth and grace. Among 
all the sons of men, who rises so high to-day as the "Man of 
Galilee?" He who went about doing good. He told us this 
was his "meat and drink." Do you think this strange food? 
Try it, brother. His birth was lowly, but His star ascends 
higher and higher, and nations bring their tribute unto Him. 
The man who does good will live in history when others are 
forgotten. One man who had amassed a fortune and who had 
been very liberal in the distribution of gifts for education and 
charity, said when he came to die, "What I have given away I 
have kept ; what I have kept I have lost." 

We are to learn to know God by studying the life of Christ. 
At first those associated, with Him were servants. Then He 
called his disciples friends, and later on as the work of heal- 
ing and helping grew, he called them "MY BRETHREN." 
God called Abraham His friend. Can He say that of you 
to-day? He further said, "I know Abraham, that he will com- 
mand his household after him in the Lord." Can that be 
truthfully said of your home? One man was asked if he 
knew a certain man, and he replied, "How can I when I never 
stayed all night with him." Abraham was known to God as 
a faithful man, one who could be trusted. But God must 
know some men very differently from that. Some men can be 
trusted only for small amounts, but the very moment the 
account grows large they decamp. Some cannot tell the truth, 
and if they owe you an account, they cannot remember it. Do 
you think a doctor with drugs can cure such a man? No! no! 
but the great Physician can cure all such, by creating in them 
a new spirit. He healed every one without drugs. Men are 
just beginning to find out that drugs have no healing power. 
Nature heals when touched by the divine finger. But when all 
human help fails men will sometimes turn their faces towards 
God for help. After Saul had been a bloody persecutor, hunt- 
ing men and women down for their faith, God took him in 



108 SUPPLEMENT 

hands and after a little experience that led unto prayer, God- 
said, "Behold he prayeth." A sinner on his knees can soon 
change, ('an a sick one heal himself? ('an a leopard change 
his spots? No, but God can. lint when man fails that is the 
time we often learn to know and trust God. 

A REAL CHARACTER. 

A lady said, "I lived for years by the side of that woman 
and I never came to know her real character and worth until 
we had sickness and death in our family, then she did shine 
like an angel of light." Loss of property, trouble, sickness, 
death bring out the finer qualities of character and test the 
friendship of life. As a child in trouble will instinctively flee 
to its mother for comfort, so we should all seek the compassion 
and help of God. For does he not say, "As one whom his 
mother comforteth, so will I comfort you." People who know 
God bear testimony in every age to the truth of God's infinite 
power and compassion for all who suffer. 

Dear Reader, when you read in your Bible these words 
about God, -HE HEALETH ALL OUR DISEASES," do you 
believe that? If you trust its teachings at all, why should you 
not trust this great truth of the Bible and history? If you 
do believe when (rouble comes your first thought will be of 
Him. FAITH will lead you to send first for the man of God 
who can help you. Whereas most preachers and church mem- 
bers will run for a bottle of medicine, or send for a poor, frail 
man to help, who has no power; who does not believe. When 
sickness or troubles come, they forge! their Bibles and forget 
their God. To-day the ancient prophet cries out, "Is there no 
'balm in Gilead?" "Is there no physician there?" God says, 
"My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge." How can 
that be when the towns are full of churches and preachers? 
BROTHER, in all the sermons you have preached, how many 
have you devoted to healing the sick? How much of your time 
has been given to the study of this part of the Bible; to the 
seeking of Bible healing power? 



SUPPLEMENT 109 

CHURCH COUNCILS. 

Sonic churches in their councils have decided that BIBLE 
HEALING was confined to Bible times, and therefore this 
part of the scriptures are obsolete in our day. That it is val- 
uable as history only to prove the divine mission of Christ 
as a Savior. Now, let us see about this. Did Christ and the 
apostles work the healing art to prove that Christ had come, 
or to help men? If you reply they healed the sick to prove 
both, then we say, "Does not the world need this help as much 
to-day as then?" Are not the people of our country as precious 
to God as the Jews or Cananites of Palestine? All such 
churches, having lost the power to heal, deny that it exists 
to-day. It is such people that claim this exhibition of heal- 
ing power was confined to the apostolic age. Such assum- 
tions are purely exhibitions before the world of their unbelief 
of the Bible. We challenge any such teachers to produce one 
single truth of such claim from the Scriptures. Did not Jesus 
say, "Greater works than these shall ye do because I go to 
the Father?"' Before nearly every page of holy writ such 
teachers stand condemned. It would be far better for such 
to admit that the Bible teaches divine li<<tlin</, and that teach- 
ing and healing were united in the Apostolic Church; that 
healing the sick is a permanent office in the church for to 
help men. Then they could set up the claim that they are 
not called to heal the sick, but simply to preach the WOKD, 
and we might grant that. God calls people now to be healed 
as much as ever. He calls persons to this work of teaching 
and healing the sick. Healing is a divine gift. No man taketh 
this honor upon himself, but he that is called of God as were 
Moses and Aaron. On this foundation stone of healing and 
helping men the church was founded. Built on this the Church 
will prosper to-day, ami the problem of "how to reach the 
masses" will be solved. Let not the icy fingers of unbelief 
close this door of hope iu the Church to sinful, suffering men. 



110 SUPPLEMENT 

If it does, their house will be left unto them desolate, and 
(Jod will raise up a people who will honor Him in this. "Our 
/'lire Food Health Club Association" teaches the Bible way 
of how to promote health and cure disease without drugs. We 
invoke the light of science found in the study of chemistry of 
food and the chemistry of the body. We have "no fads" but 
teach sane and rational methods. Where the need exists and 
the laws of God are not yet known, we follow the teaching of 
the Bible and the light of faith for healing. Our membership 
is growing rapidly and is found in nearly all the churches. In 
all these places they are doing a great work for God and hu- 
manity. We are organizing a great system of education to 
exalt the home and moral reforms. By the blessing of God, 
we trust the good work begun will grow until they shall become 
an invincible army in the advancement of the Kingdom of God. 
The chief difficulties in our way are those of ignorance and 
unbelief. But Agnosticism has always opposed the inarch of 
truth. The trend of public sentiment and Christian scholar- 
ship is on our side. Great things are coming to pass in our 
day. and still greater things of the spirit are yet to be made 
known. Like the noble Bereans, let us "Search the Scriptures"' 
for they are full of light on every problem of life and duty. 
A man in ancient times from Ethiopia was riding in his chariot 
alone reading the Scriptures when a pure spirit sent Philip 
to join him and be his teacher. Philip asked him if lie under- 
stood what he was reading and he replied, "How can I, ex- 
cept some one shall guide me?" What sick people need, what 
every one needs is some one who knows God to guide men to 
Him. He waits with open arms the return of every prodigal 
child. 

Then the problem of "HOW TO BE HEALED" is reduced 
to these two propositions: (a) Studying foods and their prep- 
aration along scientific lines. Our Clubs promote this work, 
(b) Critical or chronic cases of suffering that carikiol wait for 
the slower methods of the first way, we follow the light of 



NOTE— Out system of healing ifl c<>v:<-ed by faith, /■•od-»<udy, and 



SUPPLEMENT ■ 111 

faith and search the Scriptures for healing power. Faith is 
the key that will unlock its hidden treasures for thirsty souls. 
While my hands were full of work teaching the first way and 
training workers to promote it, God, by his all-conquering 
spirit, called the writer of this Message of Healing to open 
up these springs of truth to the world. They are found all 
through the Bible. They have been there all these centuries, 
but are now rediscovered by the Light of Faith like one find- 
ing lost treasures. He has called us to this holy and blessed 
work of healing the sick and is giving us power to do the 
work. He has wondrously healed the writer when given up 
to die, and now calls on us to dedicate our life to this work. 
I stand before you as a redeemed and saved man, and now 
offer to all sick ones this power to heal from the same loving 
Father. If your time has not come to depart out of this life, 
you should want to be healed. Why not begin to-day? If the 
house you live in needs repair, do not wait. It is far more 
expensive to stay sick than to get well our way. Our way is 
God's ir<ijj. Now is your time. 

The past is beyond recall ; the future belongs to God. What 
the future holds for you will depend on what you decide to 
do now. What is your health worth to you in cold cash? Can 
you measure it by the dollar mark? To be sick means the 
loss of valuable time, beside much suffering. It means the 
loss of valuable opportunities that will never return. If you 
can tell me what "Port" is worth to a ship stranded in mid 
ocean, then I will tell you what health is worth. How many 
barks, like frail craft, are sailing life's sea to-day with no port 
in sight, no peaceful harbor awaiting them after a long and 
perilous voyage. They do not come into port well laden with 
the treasures of a long and useful life. Reader, if you have 
gone out upon the high seas of life without Christ being in 
your ship, nothing but storm and disaster await you. If in 
the future plans of your life you would now take Christ into 
the account, take Him as a silent partner and try to please 

NOTE— On account of so much of my time heinu taken up with official duties of my office, I am unable 
(.j ae« but a limited number "f sick onts.--\\ . !•'. E. 



11 -J SUPPLEMENT 

Him as your divine friend; make Ilini the center of all your 
plans, purposes, and hopes, then Be will abide with you in 
the ship. He who calmed the fears of his disciples of old, 
when appealed to on Galilee's stormy sea and the winds and 
waves obeyed his voire, ran be appealed to by you if He is 
in your ship. lie is sovereign of our health as well as of wind 
and wave. His love and health are not dimmed by the flood 
of years, but in every age and place they that call upon him 
renew their strength. God in Christ Jesus bridges the chasm 
between the finite <ni<l the infinite, and opens up boundless 
supplies of help for all who seek his aid. He is ever the Great 
Physician. REMEMBER the record shows that no case was 
too difficult for Him. That no one ever appealed to Him in 
vain. 

Faith, however small, if it be real faith, never fails to secure 
the coveted prize. Faith in the healing and keeping power 
of God is always triumphant. Christ said, "No one shall pluck 
you out of the Father's hand." Think how big and grand and 
st long that hand is, and how it works for us. The child says, 
unconsciously, "If Father leads me I cannot fall or go astray." 
He who made the eye to see, can He not make the blind to 
see? He who made our feet and our hands for service, can 
he not cure rheumatism, palsy, and all other diseases, so we 
can use these members? He who made to grow the precious 
foods of earth in such endless profusion of wealth and beauty 
for man's use, and gave us teeth to chew our food, aided by 
the salivary glands to prepare it for the stomach, with its 
wonderful apparatus of digestion and assimilation, does He 
not know how to repair that which He has made? We do not 
believe in the "divine right of kings," but we do believe in 
the dirine right of every child to be well born, to have a fair 
chance in the race of life. An enemy may cheat you out of 
this. Our marriage system allows some to start in this race 
with fearful handicaps. But the Bible teaches every 0m 1 "must 
be born again," "born of the spirit." In this second-hirth God 



NOTK— God looks upon Hie heart; hence ern.ra in faith will net bar anyone from help. This is the 
,,, il,. Spirit 



SUPPLEMENT 113 

looks out for us. He sees to it that all who are born here 
secure the divine right to be well born. But education and 
right living will do much to improve all our chances. SIX 
is the only thing that can cheat us out of this right. It is like 
a grain of sand among the wheels of a watch. It cannot run 
as it should or keep perfect time until some master hand re- 
moves it. The master hand of all our troubles and diseases is 
our Maker. Then let us not doubt His love or power. The 
Word says, "He is able and willing to do for us exceeding, 
abundant, above all we can ask or think." We ask for silver 
and he gives us gold. We ask for pardon, and He gives pardon 
and cleansing. We ask for friends and He comes to abide 
with us all the way, "A friend that sticketh closer than a 
brother." We ask for riches and He takes away the dross 
of earth that thieves break in to steal, to give us the "true 
riches," that will abide, where thieves do not break in to steal. 
"There is no such friend as Jesus." But so many when they 
are sick do not ask Him to heal, but they are trained to go to 
drug stores for help. REMEMBER, dear friend, whatever else 
the doctors and drug stores have to sell, they do not have 
health to sell. This can only be secured at God's store-house. 
The key of faith unlocks it all. 

The holy spirit of God cries out through all the ages the same, 
"Come unto me and buy; buy wine and milk, without money 
and without price." Do you feel the need of some one to guide 
and help you? Then call on one who knows the way, who has 
himself been healed. Whose faith now shines undimmed by 
fogs of doubt, and lie will lay his hands on you and pray for 
you and you shall be healed. Do you ask by what authority we 
offer to a stranger like you all these rich treasures of faith? 
We answer by the authority of the "King of kings and Lord' 
of lords." For lias he not said, "He healetii all OUR dis- 
eases?" He has said, "My people are destroyed through lack 
of knowledge." He is now pressing this knowledge upon you, 
so "they who run may read." He who called men of Galilee 



114 SUPPLEMENT 

and Judea, men of science and learning, like "Luke, the be- 
loved physician," and "Saul of Tarsus"; He who called humble 
fishermen like Peter, James, and John, and Matthew the pub- 
lican, despised as he was, and gave them power and sent 
them out to teach and to heal all manner of sicknesses and all 
manner of diseases, still calls men of high and low degree to 
work with Him and for Him. He says to each and all, "Go 
work to-day in my vineyard and whatsoever is right I will 
pay thee." Hear Him still say, the harvest of suffering and 
sin is great. "Why stand ye here all the day idle?" Do you 
say, "I do not understand such talk!" Jesus said that men 
were "slow of heart to believe all that was written of Him in 
the Scriptures." The record says even the disciples could not 
understand these deep things of God until "He opened their 
minds to understand the Scriptures." Rut those He calls He 
teaches and qualifies to do His work. Out of the many laws 
operating in the Vegetable and Animal kingdom to beautify 
the earth ami afford sustenance for man, only a very few do 
we understand, yet we see a silent force at work and we believe. 
By study men are gradually coining to know more of them. 
Many are still mysterious to us, who live on this planet. 
Psychic phenomena and mental telepathy are sciences yet in 
their infancy. God has many things yet to make known to 
us, but let us rejoice that all power and authority are given 
unto Christ our King. We may not yet know how he paints 
the glories of an evening sunset; how He blends the colors 
to give that matchless scene, but we know He does it. We 
may not yet know how he paints the flowers and tills them with 
sweet perfume and sends them on their divine errand to suffer- 
ing men, but we know he does it. They are so frail, yet so 
fair and have come down the ages untarnished by sin, bringing 
their sweet messages of love and power. SCIENCE and RE- 
LIGION are no longer arrayed in hostile camps warring with 
each other, but all worship reverently in tin 1 same Temple of 
Truth, and are seeking to know the same God. He who is over 

MIT!'- IV, not forept in n-nrtine the i.'.nve whit i-:iH-.l the lif<- of Jesns of Vaiareth atore the 
level ■■! ulhi-r 1:1 :i nas lii« revealing the Fathei Jesiu led all to God. 



SUPPLEMENT 115 

all blessed forever. As Jesus said to Mary at the well, "If thou 
hadst known the gift of God," instead of her Maker asking <>f 
her, who still lived in the house of clay, for a drink of water, 
she would have asked of Him a precious gift that would abide. 
He still says to all who suffer from any cause, "If than hadst 
known the gift of God, you could be well to-day and happy." 
Then why delay to ask? For the most part this divinely- 
appointed work of healing conies to those whom He calls to 
this work of ministering. If you are sick and want healing, 
will you co-operate with us? My cup is small and will not hold 
the ocean of God's power, but it does hold some of it. I believe 
as we use the power He gives He will give still more. I read 
there is enough for each, enough for all, enough forevermore. 
After years of study I am prepared to advise you on your diet — 
what to eat, and how to eat it; the importance of abdominal 
breathing and other physical exercises. These are all along 
the well-known laws of nature. The spirit of faith and healing 
are also just as much along natural lines and under law as 
the former, only they are beyond our ken. My telescope of 
faith can locate the planet of truth and the lines of its orbit, 
but the lens of my instrument is too short to measure the cir- 
cumference or explore all its wealth of hidden treasure. Above 
and beyond the mightiest telescope of earth rise before us 
suns and systems, cluster and universe, all fashioned and up- 
held by the matchless wisdom and power of God. Notwith- 
standing the greatness of our God, that the very Heaven of 
heavens cannot contain Him, yet His imminence is everywhere 
made known. In every bud and flower and leaf, in every run- 
ning brook, forest, and field, temple or shrine, we see the same 
divine Father of all. He is pressing His power upon our at- 
tention in all forms of life. He wants us all to know Him 
and know we are redeemed. That we are His children and 
then heirs to all this untold wealth of power and riches of 
glory. He says, "Hitherto ye have asked nothing, ask largely 
that your joy may be full " 



CHAPTER THREE. 
Law on Healing. 

In the previous chapter on " Healing ," I open up the subject by 
asking- the question "Do you know God?" In this chapter I want 
to give more specific instructions about the divine being we call 
God, and the law or mode by which He manifests himself to men. 
Right concept ions of Deity are fundamental and of first importance. 
Not one step can be taken in real progress without this. To be hazy 
or indifferent at this vital point is to reach wrong conclusions in 
your reasoning and fail utterly to reap any good that will satisfy 
yon. David said "I shall be satisfied when I awake in thy like- 
ness." But how could he ever hope for this exalted favor with a 
wrong concept ? But David said "My soul hungers and thirsts for 
the living God." Today, men "hunger" and "thirst," but in too 
many cases it is for what God has made, or man has made and not for 
the < Yeaior. In vain, men seek him today because they are blinded 
by wrong ideals. Some thinkers confound the Deity with his works, 
or with Nature. They see the results of an invisible force operating 
all around them and they calr this law or manifestation of Deity, 
God. They confound the Creator with what he has made. These 
men search for God like men hunt for gold along a blind trail. 
without any real prospect of finding the "Infinite One." They work 
in his garden and they see his footsteps and then they say, "I have 
found him," but alas it is only his shadow. If a hunter finds a deer 
track has he found the deer ? 

An artist's ran treasures are often admired by people with esthet- 
ical taste and the art instinct, who never try to know the artist . who 
could conceive and put on canvas his thoughts in such marvelous 
colors and design. You love the seasons; you admire nature in all 

116 



SUPPLEMENT 117 

her changing and sublime moods; you see these manifestations of 
the great Artist every time you look around or beneath your feet, or 
up into the starry heavens, and you say, "I have found him ;" but 
have you ? 

These people see certain manifestations of the " Infinite Father " 
that we call law, and they say that is God. They confound the 
architect of the universe with his house and garden. 

What are the laws of nature, but the manifestations of the thought 
arid spirit of Deity ! Back of all created things we study, let us not 
forget to look for the thought and spirit force that is the great First 
Cause. This exists independent of and sei>arate from all his works ; 
"thoughts are said to be things," but they are invisible ; they are 
the cause. What man constructs and what God has made visible to 
us of his handiwork are the effects of the thought and spirit force 
of the Deity. 

The great ruling power that controls and sustains all material 
things, is not the material and visible, but the immaterial and in- 
visible force. I do not say forces ; this we call God. 

The higher laws of life and being with which we have to do is 
the thought and spirit force of the Almighty. The only absolutely 
perfect being, perfect in knowledge, wisdom and power. Boundless 
in sympathy and love. Who is ever active, trying to attract our 
attention and thought. 

As a child cannot know the loving mother's heart as long as it re- 
mains a child, so we can not know God while we have childish 
ideas about him. Some think of Him as a great way off, while 
others confound Him with his works. Laws are to be studied, for 
these are regular methods of procedure by which the wisdom and 
power of the Creator are made known; but you will never know 
th.e heart of God, until you love and trust him ; not for what you 
'can get out of Tiim. like a dog who seeks a bone and then wags his 
tail in gratitude for the bone, but if we would know God, we must 
seek him for his sake alone, for what Tie is, and not for what we get 
out ot linn. On this selfish, mean, low standard of personal gain, 



118 SUPPLEMENT 

most of us have been taught to seek God ; like a lot of beggars 
whose maws are never satisfied. 

The hog hunts for the acorns under the trees and is content if his 
stomach is filled, he never looks up to see where these acorns come 
from or bless the hand that made them grow. 

How many men are like the swine ; they are content with mat< - 
rial things that fall across their pathway in life. They do not look 
up or seek to know the Father of all, "who giveth every good and 
perfect gift." 

The Great Teacher said, "He hears the young ravens when they 
cry with hunger." "He opens his hand and satisfies the desire of 
every living thing." 

If He hears the ravens cry, will He not hear you cry ? But let us 
not wait until we are driven by want or suffering to seek Him. Seek 
Him when we are young and strong. kSeek Him when in manhood's 
middle noon. Seek Him at eventide, when the shadows begin to 
lengthen and the night conies on. 

If you live to round out the century, let it lie your business to 
daily seek Him, for He is walking in his garden seeking you. lie 
wants all his children to know and love Him as "Our Father." 

The Lord's prayer is a model for us ; it teaches us to pray tolliin 
as "Our Father." 

As a father He is the author of our being ; our life is a part of his 
lite ; hence Paul says, "in Him we live and move and have our be- 
ing." The complex nature of man shows or reflects the source of 
his being, and shall I not say his destiny? 

"lie moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. He 
plants his footsteps in the sea. and rides upon the storm. 

Deep in unfathomable mines of never-failing skill. He treasures 
up his bright designs and works His sovereign will." 

His love, strength, wisdom and care are all ours, because he is 
"Our Father." 

In that wonderful book. ■■]]] Tune with the Infinite/' by Mr. 
Trine, he says : "Though! and spirit are the creative force. What 



SUPPLEMENT 11 ( .) 

we see is not cause, but the effect." Man begins his earthly career 
upon a low physical plane, the most helpless of all animals. But he 
has native powers in embryo to lift him up. He begins as a 
quadruped crawling upon all four limbs, but he soon becomes a 
biped and walks upright. The finest and best part of him, that 
links him to the infinite One, is uppermost in his anatomy and 
is put there to rule the animal and keep it under while the thought 
and spirit force in man links the finite with the Infinite. The dual 
nature of man enables him to crawl on the earth like a vine and 
yet to find a trellis for the best part of him to rise to Infinite heights. 
Right thinking and right living are great educators. "He that 
walketh with the wise shall be wise." This is the law of associa- 
tion, for we live with our thoughts and cannot rise any higher. As 
the vibration of our thought and spirit force reaches up and beyond 
our physical horizon, we find less obstructions to our progress in 
knowdedge and power. The fogs of doubt and uncertainty are not 
upon the mountain tops, but in the foot-hills and hang close to the 
earth plane. But as we ascend we pass through cloud and tempest 
until the clear sunlight bursts upon our vision, and we hear the song 
of birds that we could not hear before. As we take hold with our 
thought and spirit force of the highest vibrations, we get a clearer 
vision, not only of Him whom our soul loveth, but of our troubles 
and losses. We see them grow less each day until we reach the en- 
chanted ground, and they are quite forgotten, for "the former things 
have passed away. - ' By this law of evolution we may all rise above 
the petty cares of this earth life and like the sun radiate the light, 
health and strength of our new-found joy. We will share with 
others the gifts and riches of our heavenly Father, that are the heri- 
tage of all who walk and live on the highest planes of being. By 
I his law of progress you can be in the world and not of it. You 
can live in the ''light of Goshen" like the Israelites of old, while 
Egyptian darkness may be all around you. 

Light and shadow make every picture of life on the earth plane, 
hut von can lie an optimist ; \\>u can live on the right side of the street 



120 SUPPLEMENT 

where the sun shines. You can by earnest effort and entering into 
the silence, so shut out the material and visible, as to open the in- 
visible and spirit force of the Infinite One. Open up to every ave- 
nue of your being, the higher vibration of thought, love and sympa- 
thy of " Our Father," that constantly manifests itself to all those, 
who like the flower unconsciously turns its petals toward the light. 
In sending a wireless message they throw it up into the higher 
realm by a powerful dynamo, where it goes in every direction and 
meets less resistance than it would closer to the earth currents. But 
the instrument at the receiving station must be set in the" same key 
or it will not get the message. 

This is eminently true in the vibration of our thought and spirit 
force. Our entire effort in thought and prayer must be in unison 
with the life force emanating from the Infinite Spirit in all directions 
on the higher planes of thought and spirit life. 

If you are not keyed right so as to be "In tune with the Infinite" 
your message will go astray. The Bible says, "ye ask and receive 
not because ye ask amiss." Sober thought and prayer are designed 
to bring your entire being into harmony with God, or into har- 
mony with the ceaseless vibration constantly to be found coming 
from the source of all life on the higher plane. On the plane where 
the animal part of man does not rule, but where freed from appe- 
tite and passion one constant burning desire is sent out to know 
( rod. " To walk with God " like Enoch of old. But the prophel says, 
"how can two walk together except they be agreed ?" Your mind 
and spirit must be in unison to experience the thrill of joy of the 
patriarch Job, where he triumphantly said, "I know that my re- 
deemer liveth." Jesus of Nazareth called this the new birth, "Ye 
must be born again." We would call it the new vision or second 
sight. 

Our souls can only be satisfied when we are linked with the In- 
finite Spirit, This will open to us all the gifts, all the peace, com- 
fort and power of the bank of heaven, [f you draw a check on your 
local bank, you must have a deposit there in order to have credit or 



SUPPLEMENT 121 

it will not be paid. Have you ever trusted God with any of your 
money? Do you ever say to him I will give this money, I will help 
this cause for your sake? Do you ever tell him to search your se- 
cret thoughts and see how much you love him? Can you appeal to 
the integrity of your moral nature? How many people ever take 
time to talk to God? They never listen, in the silence, for the Spirit 
voice ! Then when trouble comes and they cry out for help, they 
wonder why their prayer is not heard. 

What would you think of a man who would never speak to you 
except when he wanted credit, or wanted to borrow money? Whal 
would you think of your wife if she treated you like some of you 
treat God? Oh ! beloved , let us not be deceived, the harvest time 
will surely come. The time that will try every man's work. Whal 
we sow, we shall reap. Faith, prayer, knowledge, right thinking 
and right living, will bring a harvest of joy and strength. 

Every time you listen for the voice of the Spirit, every time you 
walk with God you will love him more, because you know him bet- 
ter. Seek to know the mind of the Spirit ; take his hand and say, 
"Where He leads I will follow, follow all the way." 

Lastly, every one should know that wrong thinking leads to 
wrong acting and wrong eating. This leads to self destruction. If 
law is violated in any way we are destroyed. In no way more surely 
than in lack of proper feeding. The mind must be fed with righl 
thought and the body with right food to nourish it, to build up the 
part, the tissues of each day that are burned up ; that are consumed 
in every act of mind and body. 

When you are sick, when pain knocks at your door, it tells to all 
the world of intelligent beings, that you have overdrawn your account 
at the "Bank of health." You have robbed yourself. Because you 
had credit, you thought pay day would never conic But it has 
come and tells you now that you have overdrawn and must pay 
back or you are a robber. Law must be obeyed. Many wealthy 
people who have lost health in the mad rush for money can now be 
seen at the noon hour bending over their lunch for two hours, hut 



122 SUPPLEMENT 

once they could eat more in five minutes. Then the dollar mark 
loomed up larger than health, but now they have won the dollar 
and health is lost, it looks big to them. It is only right teaching of 
food values that can correct this ; the laws of health and life musl be 
obeyed. When people are taught that the body is under law. thai 
the user of the body must keep his house in order, or be exposed to 
( rod, angels, and men, then we will enter upon a new era of health 
:ind joy. Claim all you need to use of your Heavenly Father's 
riches, to help you on in a useful life, but more than this ask not for, 
lesl you be burdened in your journey. 

THE POWER OF MIND. 

The mind is the business manager of the body. The body does 
not blindly run itself. People of today often stand in amazement 
at'the different phases of mind and their influence over the body. 
Much of this science is very deep and little understood, as yet, by 
even experts. But it is a fertile field for study, and great results 
and discoveries await the careful student. 

I can only give here a few rules or laws that are now well known. 
to guide the beginner, who would start right, who has lost health 
through ignorance or folly of youth and would now learn 
some of the laws that surely do change disease cells into healthy 
cells. Hope, faith, determination, spirit uplift, in the silence of 
your being, reaching out into the higher realm of cause, where 
you touch the hem of the garment of the Great Physician (God,) 
and are always made whole. With some it is instantly done, with 
others it is gradual, as our faith and thought grasp the truth of In- 
finite help. Many have been healed in our day, as well as in former 
limes, with no knowledge of these laws of mental and spiritual 
force; laws thai are now well understood as a science by the careful 
student. Ignorance or errors in thought have not been a bar to ex- 
clude the ln.nest and earnest soul from help. Because of this, many 
••cults'* in our day have flourished for a time. People have been 
helped and cured of disease, who believed opposite things. The 



SUPPLEMENT 123 

higher law was invoked and the vibration reached them and the 
touch brought healing power. But study of the "Science of Heal- 
ing" is what the world is now ready for. Not Mrs. Eddy's "cult" 
or Alex. Dowie's "cult" or the touch of the relic, or sacred bones of 
some .Saint, that appeals to blind belief of a dogma. The cry is to- 
day, do you understand'.'' But the common basis of all these divers 
"cults" or healers has been found in the study of mental science, 
and the immanence of God. It is the study of law. The same law 
by which the prophets and apostles healed the sick. The law that 
Jesus of Nazareth invoked to heal the siek, and the apostles used. 
Jesus perhaps understood this source of help better than any other of 
his age or preceding day. 

But do not think for one moment that this peerless leader of men. 
in so doing, violated any laws God ever made. He simply used 
these higher laws of spirit and mind to do good. He did not un- 
dertake to explain them to the people, but left that work to a later 
age, "when the fullness of time had come." Did he not say to his 
disciples, "I have many things to say unto you, but you can not 
hear them now"? "The constructive age was then in the dawn." 
The slogan was "Credo". "Do vou now Believe?" 

But today is the analytical age; the philosophical age has come. 
The aire when the foundations of our faith are examined as novel- 
before. Science is exact knowledge. Everything in the realm oi 
economics, philosophy or religion, must in time submit its claim to 
the test of law or science. 

The slogan today is not so much "do you believe" as "do you un- 
derstand" ; the path of faith when lighted by knowledge, is a safe 
path. But "cults and isms," if they have any basis in truth or law 
are only partial truths and often mixed with much error, are to lie 
avoided by all who love the truth and want to see it triumph ; a "par- 
tial truth" is the mosl dangerous of all delusions, for it leads people 
astray who are led to think they have the ••'whole truth" when they 
only have a fraction, a broken ray from the full orb thai shines for 
all. Narrow people are always exclusive ; often in humanitarian and 



124 SUPPLEMENT 

religious fields, they try to build a fence around their cult so they 
can giow rich out of it. Soon as they see they are doing some good 
and their message is received, the "millionaire hee" gets in their 
bonnet and worldly avarice ruins their cause. They may start out 
with good motives, but they can not stand success and when they 
treat it as merchandise they fall. Sad examples loom up large on 
the horizon in our day as I write this. The Jews of old made the 
mistake of being exclusive. They thought because they were fav- 
ored, were chosen to lead, that all the rest of the world were un- 
clean, unfit for divine favor. Time and history have kept them alive 
and separate from other people to prove their mistake. It is always 
a mistake to be exclusive. Any world religion must be broad 
enough to be inclusive to take all the children of God in if they are 
to be triumphant. 

The Great Teacher from Nazareth was able to rise above the preju- 
dice and narrow confines of his town and nation and teach a world 
system of help. He said, "Other sheep I have that are not of this 
fold." Do you now begin to realize how big and grand and strong 
arc the arms of the "Infinite Father" of us all? How patient, how 
tender, how forebearing. Will he do more for one than another? 
Will he bend the heavens and come close to one age, hear their cry 
lor help ; will he heal their sick, raise their dead, and comfort their 
hearts, then forsake us? Does your God change that way? It not, 
the fault is in our thinking and in our teaching ; we have changed, 
but not God. We have put the help of God far from us ; we have 
thought he was a .respecter of persons ; yet he says, "I am the same, 
yesterday, today, and forever; my ways change not." 

Our club members are at liberty to rely for healing on the right 
food and physical culture, if they so desire. But the better way is 
to study the "New Psychology" all you can, and seek to unite the 
higher force with the lower. Man is a three-fold being : physical, 
mental and spiritual ; when each faculty in its place is i'n) with 
proper food, when they all work and work together to develop the 
complete num. then you will he an invincible power, in the home 



SUPPLEMENT L25 

and in the world. You will be well and happy because you arc an 
educated optimist. Fear and worry will have no place in your 
store-house. You are rich indeed, not because you are "a child of 
the king," as so many sing, and then live like a beggar ; but know- 
ing this, that it is your prerogative, your right to live like a prince 
and use as much as you need of the wealth of spirit, mind and body, 
as vou grow daily in this three- fold nature. This knowledge ot 
your three-fold nature and how to care for such a complex organ- 
ism and always have plenty, and yet rob no one else, is education 
indeed. It will be the fulfillment of prophecy and the dream of the 
social economist. 



CHAPTER FOUR. 

OUR MESSAGE TO THE SICK. 

Be of good cheer ; light, hope and help await you. It is within 
your reach now. There is no virtue in being sick and losing valuable 
time. If your family does not need you the world at large does. Read 
carefully, or have it read for you, this chapter; get all the knowl- 
edge you can of the "New Thought Movement" then act at once. You 
are now in the garden where the fruit grows ; it hangs over your 
head but not out of your reach. It is the fruit of knowledge fresh 
from the tree of life. It is yours now. Look up and grasp it. It 
will make you well and keep you strong for life's battle until you 
round out the century, or until your work is done and you are pro- 
moted to a larger and better place, "where they do not hunger and 
thirst any more." When we know God better and how to open up 
the windows of our earthly house to the divine inflow of spirit life, 
we will not live like bet/gars or orphans here ; we will ask and re- 
ceive. Faith, prayer, knowledge, are the keys that will unlock to 
you the great store-house of help and strength that you need. Re- 
member your heavenly Father is rich and you are his child ; hence 
you have a right to all that He has. If is yours. It has been quite 
the .style for ages in education to leave this most important study, 
(the care of our self.) to a learned profession of medical men who 
made it their specialty, to live and grow fat off of the ignorance and 
folly of the people. Their time has been spent for the most part in 
relieving suffering by surgical operations, (which is indeed a won- 
derful science) and patching up sick and ailing ones with drug com- 
pounds. This system of neglect of education and living in ignorance 
of how to care for one's own self, has led to great sacrifice of human 
life, to untold suffering and feebleness that might have been pre 

126 



SUPPLEMENT 127 

vented by right education in early life. "Netv thought" on the phi- 
losophy of life, or modern thought if you please, is "prevention" by 
teaching people to obey law. Man is as much under law, mental, 
moral and physical, as the planets are under the law of the Infinite 
< )ne. Heretofore, physicians, as a class, have occupied about the 
same relation to the people as lawyers in one respect. They have 
been employed to get people 4ut of trouble who have violated law, 
and are sick, or in prison. 

if you do not know the State or National law, we think it very 
much better to employ a lawyer for advice and council before the 
law is broken, than afterward to get you out of jail. But this has 
been the attitude of the public, until of late, in regard to the physi- 
cian. How many people (today even) hire physicians by the year, 
like corporations do lawyers ; hire them to keep you well, as they 
do in China, to advise yon on diet, health and physical culture? No, 
you do not take time to get this education, that is so necessary for 
self defense. You are now so busy with business or social engage- 
ments that you neglect this first duty of every one, viz : "How to take 
proper care of his health," then when sickness comes, when outraged 
nature cries out for justice and judgment, you run to, or phone to, 
the man who is a "trouble doctor" You want to be free from pain, 
you want to violate law and escape the penalty, you are now will- 
ing to pay the physician if he can help you out of this harvest of neg- 
lect and sin. How much better to hire the physician before pain 
knocks at your door. How much better for the physician, as well 
as you, to be a teacher of law and obedience to it than to resort to 
drugs and opiates. Prevention is always better than cure. Progres- 
si/oe physicians now recognize this Modern Tliought through the ^'pub- 
lic prints" and our "public school system'' is fast rolling back the cur- 
tain of night and letting in the morning light of man's new day — 
a day of hope and progress. The chains of darkness and supersti- 
tion are at last giving way to a study of the rule of law and the 
gentleness of love. The American Medical Association has been 
quick to recognize the growing demand for general education on 



128 SUPPLEMENT 

the care of the body. They are now conducting a regular medical 
campaign by free lectures on health and all related subjects. Our Nat- 
ional Association of "Pure Food-Health Clubs" is glad to join with 
them or any other agency, in promoting this long delayed education 
in self-help. Many young physicians who are now struggling for a 
place along the old lines would do much better for themselves and 
the public by joining our Association as instructors in the "New 
Thought Movement" 

THE NEW IDEA. 

In the struggle of today there are two distinct lines of thought; 
the new idea, looking to the self help and enlarged life of the in- 
dividual, and the old idea. 

The old idea is to treat all the ailments that flesh is heir to, from 
the physical side alone. This class of thinkers will tell you of all 
your ailments by "symptoms." If your hands and feet are cold they 
will tell you that your blood circulates poorly, that your heart is 
weak : what you need is a blood tonic. If your tongue is coated they 
will tell you your stomach is out of order and needs treatment. 
They all know that food has to do with this, hence they will likely 
ask you about your diet. If you have "brain storm,'' or any other 
neurotic disease they will tell you this is all due to the physical con- 
dition of the stomach. Hence they diet and give people drugs to 
cure all mental diseases. This method might properly be called the 
"old school method" It is now in vogue in most State hospitals for 
the insane. The mental is treated from the physical plane alone, as 
if law force was ;ip instead of down. 

The law of gravitation operates downward instead of up, apples 
always fall down and never fall up. We say it is a law of creation. The 
inspired writer says, '-all our blessings come down from the Father 
of Light, in whom there is no variableness or shadow of turning." 
The New Thought Movement in our day is simply teaching what the 
above writer announced two thousand years ago. By careful 
study, men are finding out the Scientific basis or law of much that is 
biblical and might be called religious. Concrete statements are often 



SUPPLEMENT 129 

found in the Bible of great "thought force" and "Spiritual Law Rec- 
ognized." Modern Science is interpreting these abstract statements of 
biblical truth in a scientific and practical way to cure disease, and 
educate men to look beyond the physical plane to the higher force of 
thought and spirit always operating downward and not up as the old 
set too I now teaches. 

The new thought teaches that all material and visible things exist 
today as effect. Thought and spirit force are cause. These are 
creative and are over and above the physical plane and condition 
all material things. Before the picture of the artist existed on can- 
vas it existed in his invisible thought force ; hence the picture is 
the effect but the cause is ever above and out of sight. The old 
school physician will tell you the stomach effects the brain and con- 
ditions its thinking, hence he would call the physical condition of 
your stomach "cause" of your bad mental condition. He says the 
material and visible is cause and the invisible or wrong thinking is 
only effect. Hence he would cure your mental disease from the low- 
er physical plane. But the "New Psychology" for curing disease of 
all kinds, teaches that the higher laws of thought and spirit control 
and condition all material manifestations of both well and sick, 
while diet is of prime importance in maintaining health and curing 
disease ; yet this and all other physical means such as sunshine, 
bathing and the gymnasium, are the direct product of thought force 
and spirit life. Man can not raise himself up to a higher plane by 
pulling at his shoestrings. He must ally himself with the Infinite 
source of life and help. "This Abundant Life" of which we all 
form a part, is all around us and mixes with the physical ; giving it 
all its efficiency and beauty. It is the invisible power of the steam 
in the engine that moves the wheels. The wheels are dead matter 
and motionless, until this life is applied. A chemist can separate 
all the different elements found in plant life or a dead body by 
analysis, then he can put all the material together again, but he 
cannot put life back either in the plant or the human body. All life 
is the stamp, the imprint of the Infinite Spirit of Life, and is reach- 



130 SUPPLEMENT 

ing down to help all up. All life growth reaches out and up to its 
Divine Sovereign ; hence we should study the higher source of 
thought and spirit life for a solution of the physical. 

By right teaching of the fundamentals of health, and right liv- 
ing, this chapter or message would not be needed. Do you have the 
slightest ambition to "do things" in this world, to lead a useful life. 
to feel the thrill once more of abundant life in every part of your 
anatomy? Then by all means start today. Get your feet in the sinning 
way where health, peace, joy and power shall be yours. You are a 
child of God. Claim today your rights as such in your Father's 
house, for He has an abundance for all. Then why live like a beggar 
and suffer want? What is sickness but health in need of repair? 
Stop doing now and forever the thing that makes you sick. Start 
doing at once the thing that will make you well ; that will rebuild 
your body. The right mental and physical exercises, with right 
food, will rebuild you rapidly. Determination and a little common 
sense will soon work wonders for all sick ones. Some rely just on 
right feeding and physical exercise for health, but the more rapid and 
certain way is to add to these right mental exercise. 

WHAT TO EAT, AND WHAT NOT TO EAT. 

You are sick because you either eat the wrong food or you eat the 
right food in excess. Are you willing to quit eating the wrong food? 
Do I not hear you say "but how can I live without it. 1 love it so?" 
Perhaps that is the reason you are sick. Better give up a love that 
has sickness and death in it. Get a divorce. Separata yourself 
from it. do it now. If you are eating the light food, but eating 
too much, eating more than you need to rebuild the body daily, tin 
remedy is plain — quit! do it now. 

Plain foods and thorough mastication will enable yci to do this. 
Do not bolt or wash your food down. Give nature a chance. Ea1 
wholi wheat m<<il cooked or "griddle cakes" made from it, for break- 
fast. Eat the bread for dinner. Then you can eat the white flour 
bread for supper and in most cases it will not hurt you. If you are 



SUPPLEMENT 131 

very bad, better consult a "food specialist" on your menu. In a 
general way, I would say, eat meat sparingly or not at all. Eat 
only those foods that go well together. Eat laxative foods. Do not 
take cathartics or poisons into your system in any form. I would 
say your diet is of first importance if you would rebuild your body 
where it is weak. The laws of chemistry must be obeyed for they are 
infallible ; what a man sows here he will always reap. The German 
proverb is true, "as a man eateth so is he," but back of this stands 
the older one, "as a man thinketh so is he." Right thinking and 
right eating should always go hand in hand, but do they in your 
case? Is not this the reason why you are sick? drink plenty of 
pure water. The average body is seventy-five per cent, water and 
needs frequent renewal ; for a tonic, pure grape juice taken between 
meals on an empty stomach is fine ; one fourth of a glass filled up 
with water is a dose for adults, olive oil is a splendid remedy for 
some kidney and bladder troubles. It is a vegetable oil and will 
not harm you. "Uncle Sam's Breakfast Food" composed of whole 
wheat and flax seed is also a sure cure for habitual constipation. If 
this was not such an appalling evil, fraught with so much harm, I 
would not mention any particular food ; as a rule I do not do so. 

After Food and Water, I would put deep breathing as next in 
importance among the r<iu<<li<il agents. Morning and night before 
an open window in your bedroom, with only a loose gown on. prac- 
tice ten minutes, each time counting slowly while you inhale through 
the nose and exhale through the mouth, nearly closed. Breathe 
from the diaphragm each time. Oxygen helps to make red blood. 
Next, I would say, practice the following exercise two or three 
times each day. 

Waist movement- To stimulate liver and relieve constipation, 
place hands on hips, twist body above hips around in circle, to right 
and left ten times, keep feet and legs firm. 

A km movement : Extend arms straight from side of body, fingers 
extended, hold muscles stiff, bend at elbows, bringing fingers towards 
head, keep muscles stiff, resisting until body shakes, return arms to 



132 SUPPLEMENT 

straight position, still holding muscles stiff; do this ten times. Now 
bring hands together in front of body, then steadily press forward as if 
pushing against a foe. This movement will develop muscles of the 
breast and fill up hollow chests. Do this six times morning and 
night ; push with hand against the head five times each way and re- 
sist hard. This will plump up the neck. Now stand erect, hands 
on hips, thumbs back, fingers forward ; lower body by bending at 
hips and knees, first rising on toes, then recover erect position, and 
complete the movement by bringing heels to floor. Do this from 
five to ten times each day ; increase the number as you get used to 
the exercise. If you practice this faithfully each day it will greatly 
help in your physical development. 

M ental exercise : Last, but not least, I would say, practice mental 
exercise. Be positive, say "I can and I will" times without number. 
The passive and negative mind invites disease and disaster. If you 
have an opportunity read the "new psychology" and you 
will learn the law of mind, that dominates the body sending out 
either the positive currents of health and strength or the negative of 
disease. The latter or negative currents are anger, hate, grief, 
anxiety, jealousy, apprehension, sensuality, disease. These break 
down and destroy the nerve centers, deplete and exhaust one; 
while the positive currents are thoughts of peace, happi- 
ness, content, health, love, (not lust) and home. Be determined 
to possess the good things of life by Divine Right of inheritance The 
study of the body and mind convinces us fully that the plan God 
has for ruling us and affording all needed help to keep us well 
and happy, is written in our complex nervous system. The nerves are 
like live wires, connecting the upper and lower brain, or the solar 
plexus, which is the abnormal brain, with the brain in the head. 
It is composed of the same gray matter and acts like a switch board. 
Mi -sages are constantly being sent over these nerves from the tipper 
brain to every part of the body. These messages convey health or 
sickness as we send out posit ire or negative thoughts. So then we 
actually think sick or well thoughts. Hence the Bible saying, "as a 



SUPPLEMENT 133 

man thinketh so is he." Under this new light of interpretation, how 
much more helpful and precious the dear old book is. Indeed, all 
truth is more precious, because it is now ours and not a bed of thorns 
now and a dream of roses bye and bye. This higher mind in man 
is the divine and it is not only placed over our body to rule it but 
receives direct suggestions and life from the Infinite Spirit, and 
thought of our Heavenly Father. The first disciples were sent out 
to teach and heal the sick and God was with them. Teaching comes 
first and healing afterwards. This is the divine order for all time. 
Hence we place teaching tin truth first in importance, By this knowl- 
edge all life is enobled and transfigured. It is made beautiful and 
happy. It is made radiant and triumphant, Before this gospel of 
health and healing, sickness and sorrow must flee away. Keep in 
tune with all that is good and strong and beautiful in life: Draw 
from the "Celestial Spring" all the help you need. Then send out 
over your cerebrospinal 7iervous system to every part of your body 
such thoughts of peace, health, happiness and power, as will unite 
with proper food and exercise to build a strong and vigorous mind 
and body. ^ Then give your life to helping others find this pearl of 
gr< at est price. Remember there is a " basis in law" for all the healing 
of the sick that has ever been conducted since the dawn of history. 
No such thing as healing contrary to law, hence there are no miracles 
of healing, no suspending of law and order ; call it what you will— 
"Divine healing," "Faith cure," '-Mind cure," "Food cure," etc.— it is 
all one. The higher laws that I have tried to point out for healing 
are ordained of God. "Whoever will may come." But the neivpathol 
<>f/!/ is a Science and must be stud ied. 

In conclusion, I want to say, I have not burdened these pages 
with examples from ancient or modern times to demonstrate the truth 
herein set forth. But their name is legion. Perhaps in modern 
times we have no more conspicuous exhibitions of successful drug- 
less cures than those conducted by the "Emanuel Church" of Boston, 
Mass., and Bishop Fallow's Church of Chicago, 111. I had the great 
pleasure during the winter of 1910 to meet the Bishop in his home 



134 SUPPLEMENT 

city and talk over his drugless healing work. He assures me he lias 
been very successful. But he does not take only neurotic or nervous 
oases. Physicians of the city send this class of patients to him. He 
docs not fight the medical profession, but they work together in 
this way. In my opinion the Bishop is doing a grand work bul 
he has not yet grasped the "whole truth" on the subject of healing. 
Perhaps future generations will shame all of us with their clearer 
vision. But let us each do our part. 



HEALTH CHAPTERS. 

Chapter two on "How to be Healed," was written at Dayton, Ohio, 
in the year 1909. Chapters one, three and four were written in the 
year 1911. The reader's attention is called to this fact, that you may 
appreciate more fully the manifest evolution and widening of the 
area of thought in these later chapters. If the next two years brings 
as great advance in the " New Thought Movement " as the last two 
have secured, the world must be prepared to buy new books. The 
author is now working on a more complete volume devoted to the 
study of "Diet," "Chemistry of Food," "Home Problems." These 
will be discussed in their relation to the "divorce" and "thirst evil." 
When these subjects are more fully understood we are confident 
these and kindred reforms will advance as never before. In the 
chapter called "The Irrepressible Conflict" we have called atten- 
tion to this new feature of these old reforms. After you have read 
this chapter and the "Supplement" I feel sure you will be ready for 
more. — Editor. 



BEST AIDS TO THE COMPLEXION 

As a complexion improver, fresh air and exercise have no equals. 
They will bring normal appetite and digestion and arouse the most 
torpid liver to a sense of its responsibilities. Whenever it is possi- 
ble, out-door exercise is by far the best, and there is none so gener- 
ally desirable as walking. From two to five miles a day of brisk 
walking is little enough for the average woman. 

It is high time to begin upon your spring complexion. You 
must treat your face in these ways : 

You must diet for roses and lilies if you want them to bloom in' 
your face. 

You must exercise to give your skin the glow of health. 

L35 



BE METHODICAL. 

I do not know of any one thing in the management of a home, or in 
one's life work, that will cripple or destroy your efficiency so much 
as lack of method. In fact, efficiency cannot be secured in any 
•calling without it. The time is at hand when home-keeping must 
conform to this well-known law in business management. Railroad 
management in our day is a splendid object lesson for home-keep- 
ers. This is eminently true of all successful corporations. Every 
effort possible should be put forth in home administration to avoid 
friction or waste energy. Study ami nut hod will give you "ball 
hearing" features by which you can reduce to a minimum this waste 
product now so apparent in many homes. Yea, and in many hu- 
man lives. "Conservation" is a popular word in present politics. It 
should be on every home banner. How would it do to write these 
three large words so full of importance on a banner for the home 
and hang it up in the most prominent place in your kitchen, where 
your eves will ever behold it and those who minister for you. Make 
these three words the talisman of your home and that of the lite of 
all who share its spirit. 

Method, conservation, f.fficiency : — Home economics cannot be 
a success if there is any by-product going to waste — any waste ener- 
gy or loss of time. To run a home right it takes as much skill as 
it does to run a railroad. There are few places in life where it will 
count for more ; at present the aggregate waste in home manage- 
ment is appalling. One reason for this is homekeepers have not 
been trained for this as an essential function of the president of a 
home. It is left in too many cases to unskilled hired help. 

THE AWAKENING HAS come. 

The increased cost of living in our day has brought with i* a 
blessing in disguise. Incomes have not kept pace with this enlarged 

136 



BE METHODICAL 137 

family expense. This has forced upon us the necessity of careful 
scrutiny of the family budget. In order to maintain the home 
where incomes could not be increased the family expenses had to be 
reduced. 

This could not be done without careful study of every part of 
home management. 

This has brought to the front with rapid strides the study of the 
food problem. 

A fresh interest has been awakened that is world wide. It has 
long been known that late banquets and over-eating was a national 
sin that was not only prodigal, but was filling graveyards. The 
death rate'in Pittsburg, Pa., 1911, was the lowest it has been in the 
history of the city. Physicians and undertakers have been leaving 
there by the score. 

Physicians who have been able to hold on looking for the good old 
times, report that this splendid showing in the improved general 
health was no doubt largely due to the high cost of living. Poverty 
has forced people to eat less, and their health has consequently im- 
proved, and doctors and undertakers are out of work. 

We flatter ourselves that our work there two years ago has had 
something to do with this improved condition. Three months of 
active campaign there in which I addressed many thousand home- 
keepers on food study in its relation to economy and health, can 
not help but count and should receive '"long wl'.h other toilers m 
this same field, its just recognition. 

The home and food reform has many sides or angles that is just 
now, as never before, receiving careful scrutiny. This makes it a 
most inviting field for study and profit. The door is now wide open 
to the homekeepers as well as the food special isf. 

The study of food values will teach one what to buy and what to 
avoid as extravagant. Improved methods in cooking and baking 
will help eliminate waste. It will rob the garbage can and increase 
the bank savings account of working people. 

What to eat and how to eat it, coupled with abdominal breathing 
and healthful exercise will promote not only economy, but health 
and happiness in every home where it is established. 



WANTED 
"pure food health club" organizers. 
We also want bright young men and women who will learn the 
Eastman "Co Id Oven System" of Pure Food Cake Making and will 
take a State or large city, and teach it in stores ; a life's work is here 
opened up for yon of skill, business and tact. It has been very popu- 
lar everywhere the home baking system has been taught. It is 
handled on a pel 1 cent, basis with the store, and our workers earn 
from $25.00 to $50.00 per week selling the cakes and the " Outfits" 
for baking them. If you are interested, write W. F. Eastman, at the 
Chicago, 111. address. 100 N. Fifth Ave., and in two weeks' time you 
can qualify to take up the work. Organizers of clubs are wanted. 
This is handled on a per cent, unless some friend will furnish the 
salary. You should read first the chapter on the work of the clubs 
entitled, "The Irrepressible Conflict" Then raid carefully the Sup- 
plement Chapters on "Health"; then read the National Constitu- 
tion and club by-laws, and how to form a club then go to work. 

Instructions to Workers. 
First take time to learn the salient features of our club work. Be 
sure you understand the general principles of our Home Education 
Mov( merit. Then examine yourself and see if your heart is in fullest 
sympathy with this Twentieth Century Home work. If you believe 
in yourself and believe in your cause and then believe in your God 
you can and will succeed. You are now ready to go out into the har- 
vest of the world and gather sheaves. On such a work as this you 
can enter any home or office and secure an audience, by simply pre- 
senting your card as an organizer of our National Associated Clubs. 
We arc now working in six States and other States are needing work- 
ers. Select your field and write us for terms. By studying our 
book and practicing up at home you can soon be ready for either 
store or club work. This is a rare opening for talented and earnest 
workers. 



138 



"THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 
U THE NA TIONAL PUKEFGOD HEALTH < 'LUB" is an associ- 
ation of clubs engaged in educational work, both local and general. 
Our object is to promote the health and happiness of the home, by 
organized methods of study. There are two distinct lines of though 1 
in <>ur day that have to do with the problem of health and happi- 
ness, and they are diametrically opposed to eaeh other. IT IS THE 
[RREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT in which all must cuter. ONE 
IDEA IS FRENCH. THE OTHER IDEA IS AMERICAN. 

THE FRENCH IDEA on the food problem has dominated the 
thought of the world for ages, how to prepare fancy dishes to tempt 
people to overeat, to eat for pleasure and not for strength, the many 
course dinners and artistic dishes. This is French ; other Nations 
have followed their lead very largely. The long list of bodily ills 
and homes wrecked come as the legitimate harvest of such a course ; 
it is the result. The alarming death rate in France is a sad warn- 
ing. "Drs. Palestre and Giletta have induced several French depu- 
ties to put their names to an interesting measure which is now be- 
fore 'The Chamber,' looking to improved conditions. In enquir- 
ing intp the causes of the mortality in France, it has been recognized 
that out of 1,000 children who have died when under a jeiw old, 
766 might have been saved. The doctors declared that in a space 
of six years, 220,000 children have died who might have been saved. 
They recognize that bad conditions and improper feeding is the di- 
rect cause of this loss of human life." 

In the United States according to the mortuary returns of attend- 
ing physicians, .100,000 children under one year of age are slain 
each year. 350,000 of these the attending physicians declare have 
died from lack of nutrition, or, as we would say, from the want of in- 
telligent feeding. 

139 



140 "THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 

THE AMERICAN IDEA is a revolt, a protest against this un- 
natural, monstrous, wicked course. It is the voice of reason and 
modern progress crying out for a "SQUARE DEAL" in the interest 
of humanity and the home. 

'THE HOME and FOOD REFORM" requires a new align- 
ment in our thinking and eating ; it is the most important part of 
the "New Thought Movement" that is spreading over the world to- 
day, as an evangel of life and hope. All food reformers who have 
the health and happiness of the home at heart teach that we should eat 
for strength and not for pleasure alone. Furthermore, that it is as 
great a sin to make dishes to tempt people to overeat or to eat the 
wrong thing because it looks and tastes nice, as it is to tempt anyone 
to do any other thing that can bring only great bodily harm. 

Our Association of "Pure Food FIealth Clubs" champion tin 
AMERICAN or "Home and Food Reform" idea. We call upon all 
who arc interested in health and a modern sane way of living to pro- 
mote it, to unite with us in our work. We are not EXTREMISTS 
or FADDISTS, but are organized to promote the food reform so far 
as it effects health, economy and the , building of the "TWENTIETH 
CENTURY HOME." We are an educational and not a commer- 
cial organization. Our club rooms are not run for profit but are 
-SOCIAL CENTERS" for help in solving all home problems re- 
lating to health, and happiness; while our "clubs help supply a pub- 
lie need, sadly felt in most places, for better things to eat, they are 
not run for commercial purposes. Yet there is no organization on 
earth that needs large and small sums of money, so much as we do, 
to provide for this great NATIONAL MOVEMENT. Up to this 
time our work lias been carried on by membership fees and without 
aid from the State or National Government, yet I believe there is 
no cause more worthy of help than ours. Nearly $700,000,000 has 
been gathered the last year by this government from the custom 
honst and Internal rrmme receipts alone. This does not have 
anything to do with the vast .sums raised from taxes by thecity and 

State. 



"THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT:' 141 

As a Nation we are rich in resources, but is this money spent the 
most wisely for self defense ? Suppose the hundred of millions now 
spent for fighting ships and fighting men were spent in a practical 
system of education of the masses, like this Association has under- 
taken. Suppose we spend this money to fight disease by science, to 
fight poverty by education, to fight all kinds of weakness and vice 
by preventive education to uplift the home, would not our defense be 
more secure ? In other words we believe our National Defense rests 
more securely upon a wise expenditure of most of this money in a 
practical system of home education than in "Men of "War". Ninety- 
two per cent, of all school children are now forced to leave the 
Grammar Schools to go out into the world to help earn the family loaf. 
This only leaves eight per cent, for High School pupils. This vasl 
army of bread ivinners are the home guard of this Nation. They 
need our system of training to prevent disease and suffering. They 
need it to make their brain and muscle strong. Then they will be 
In iine-makers and home-keepers, and on this we would rest our Na- 
tional Defense; all the army or navy we need then will be for police 
purposes. Let the $10,000,000 now given by Mr. Carnegie, to pro- 
mote the peace of Nations by arbitration, be followed by many mil- 
lions more on Home Education of our people. Our association work 
should be organized in ever} T town and village in the land. "We 
teach the people the right views of health and how to promote it ; 
we teach that the family as a unit is the foundation of our strength 
as a Nation. As a chain is no stronger than its weakest link, so we 
are no stronger than our weakest spot. Right thinking among the 
farmers led to right feeding of their stock, out of which they have 
amassed fortunes and greatly added to the Nation's wealth. What 
the Government and State Schools have done to aid the farmers in 
this, we want them to do now forborne education, in right think- 
ing, and feeding of our families. Our Association is ready toco- 
operate by using the latest thought on the chemistry of foods, and 
in teaching the housewives the American idea, the right culinary 
art idea to promote economy, health and strength. This will soon re- 



142 "THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 

duce vice and increase the hank savings of working people. Edu- 
cation may he a slow process and the scope of our work comprehen- 
sive, hut no one who wants a larger and better life should hesitate 
for one moment in entering our work. Many sincerely good people 
have written and spoken wisely on the home and food reform, but 
they were content with scattering the reform seed and they left to 
us. who might come after them, the more arduous and difficult task 
of organizing and to seek the best methods to develop and care 
for the harvest. Brother, Sister, it is the only way to reap lasting- 
good. 

Every reform to hear permanent results for good, must be organ- 
ized ; a glance at History will convince you of this. The Home and 
Food Reform conform to tins general law of progress. OUR "PURE 
FOOD HEALTH CLUBS" are associated together, engaged in 
local and general work. Our first clubs were organized by the 
writer in 1906, soon after the "National Pure Food and Drugs Act" 
was passed by Congress. Subsequently our Notional Headquarters 
was opened at No. 160 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, 111., and B. P. Snell 
was chosen to act as National Sec'y and Treas., and the writer was 
made the National President. Our work has been started in six 
States up to date. Our plans cover a 'practical system of help for 
home education that should he organized and maintained with 
proper financial support in every county and State in this Nation, 
and may I not say all over the world. 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS. 

As most hoiiies have one or more domestic animals, this subjed 
of proper care and study of their natures and how to make their 
presence a blessing in the home is a very important part of the 
"HOME PROBLEM", thai our Association of "Pure Food Health 
Clubs" are' set to solve for our entire country, [n teaching the 
"humanities" in the home we feel that all domestic animals should 
in- included, and, perhaps in time, the larger qiiestion of wild animals 
and birds now often ruthlessly hunted down and destroyed. In 



"THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 143 

this paper we can only say, that we give all animals and birds i 
place in our club work. 

REFORMS. 

Our 'method of home education through our clubs and schools un- 
der their care, will cure to stay cured tin drink evil, divorce evil and 
all other excesses that poison, pollute and destroy men. In our 
opinion the drink evil and divorce evil will never be cured along 
present plans of agitation and legal enactments. A great deal < if 
time, energy and money has been wasted in fighting the liquor traf- 
fic, as if the saloon was the cause of intemperance, poverty and vice. 
It is no more the cause of poverty and vice than grocery stores are 
the cause of people getting hungry. 

Suppose people of a city should decide in studying the food prob- 
lem that the vast sums of money now spent for food made people 
poor and that this poverty drove people to drink and then someone 
would organize to close up and drive out the grocery stores. Would /// is 
plan, if successful, save the money now spent for food, and prevent 
vice ? My friends, it will do it just as quick and as sure as the 
prohibition of the saloon will doit. The saloon like the grocery 
exists because there is a demand for wet goods. This demand in 
our present state is just as legitimate as the demand for food. 

Jlie demand for alcoholic stimulants, like the demand for food is 
mpre of a physiological than an ethical one. It comes from lack 
of nutrition and that comes from improper feeding. Men who are 
not properly nourished we say "seek the stimulus of strong drink". 
The remedy then is plain. Turn your engines of war upon the igno- 
rance that leads to excess of all kinds. Unite with us in teaching 
all men that food study and the proper care of the body is the first 
duty of man. "When men are properly fed you take away the de- 
mand for wet good*. This will close every saloon as effectually as the 
refusal to buy groceries by all the people of a city, because they did 
not get hungry, would drive out every store of that kind. Give me 
the talent and the money thai i:~ now spent fighting the saloon and 



144 "THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 

we will cure the drink evil and divorce evil in one generation. We 
will cure these evils to stay cured by right tliinking and feeding. 

No reform can be made effective unless we go to the fountain head 
to seek the cause of the evil we seek to destroy. You may rest 
assured the cause is not in the saloon any more than in the grocery 
store. Proper feeding is the only remedy to cure this abnormal de- 
mand for alcoholic stimulants. This study will not only prevent 
the waste of infant life referred to, but it will very largely prevent the 
suffering and poverty that grows out of the ignorance of this first 
duty that every man owes himself and the community in which he 
lives. 

MARRIAGE REFORM. 

Another Reform. We Advocate as Clubs, is This. 

We are in favor of raising the qualifications for marriage as soon 
as these clubs and schools are put in effective operation all over a 
State. 

The home should be put upon a higher pedestal to command re- 
spect and make it more secure. Our very low standard is the cause 
of its present peril. In most States to-day, all the law requires is, 
to be of legal age and unmarried, and have financial ability to raise 
the marriage fee. If the home is the most sacred place in the world 
how absurd to have the door open so wide and so easy. , 

In our day we have put the bars up high on everything else but 
the home, then men wonder why it totters to ruin and so many 
marriages are dissolved in the divorce courts. The remedv is not 
to fight the divorce courts any more than the saloon, but to guard 
the entrance with higher qualifications. We say every one should 
give proof before a " County Examining Hoard" that they are indus- 
trious, moral and free from hereditary taint, before a license should 
be issued. In addition every bride elect should give proof that she 
has taken training in food study and other household duties so that 
she is reasonably qualified to take charge of a home and care for it. 

But before we have a bill drafted covering these much needed re- 
forms and go to the legislature to have it enacted into law, we make 



11 THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 145 

oui appeal now at the bar of public opinion. We seek to enlist tal- 
ent and means for its support, so that we can organize and develop 
our clubs and schools under their care for this State and National 
Movement. 

HOME, HEALTH, HAPPINESS. 

A trinity of matchless pathos and infinite meaning to all the in- 
habitants of this and every land. 

Can we not depend upon the united support of all patriotic and 
home loving people? Give us your personal and financial support 
and in one generation we will show greater results for good than 
history can now show in 2000 years. 

harvest great ; — It is absolutely true to-day ; "the harvest is 
gnat and the laborers are few." We are therefore praying the 
Lord of the harvest to send us more workers and also send our 
Treasury money with which we may sustain them. You must re- 
member this is purely home missionary work and must be at first 
organized and sustained like all other foundation work. We think 
it is of vital importance to our National welfare and trust it may ap- 
peal to you in the right spirit. We have given five years of our ma- 
ture life to this movement without salary to get it started. HOW 
MUCH WILL YOU GIVE? We admit both sexes ; we have a 
reading course and hold public and private meetings. We establish 
"Social Centers*' and fit up Club Rooms for the use of the members. 

By our "Reading Course" we educate the members to higher ideals 
in home life. By our club meetings we inspire and direct this newly 
awakened life into healthful and practical channels. We have four 
kinds of members, but the line is not drawn on sex. 

ACTIVE MEMBERS are those who pay one dollar per year (or 
oven more if they choose to do so). They arc expected to attend the 
meetings and take a practical part in the work of the club. Cooking 
'and home baking are taught in a scientific and practical manner. 
The course covers a wide range in Food Study and Menial Scii nee. 

SUPPORTING MEM HERS. The supporting members are 
those who give financial aid to the local club work and such moral 



146 "THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 

support as they can spare from their other duties. These pay one 
dollar per year. 

PATRON MEMBERS. ^ 

Anyone who pays $50.00 per year to the local or National work 
arc enrolled as patron members. 

LIFE MEMBERS. 

Are those who pay $100 or more dollars to aid our National work. 
This money may be given for some specific use, viz. : 

(A) To improve the Beading Course for the clubs. 

(B) To found a magazine, as an official organ of the clubs under 
the care of the National Association. 

(C) The income from invested funds may be set apart by the 
donor to pay the salary of the Chief Executive and other Nation- 
al Officers who should he adequately provided for, so that this great 
work may move forward without delay. 

Lastly: Targe funds are needed to equip a National Training 
School for workers ; without a school to train these workers in our 
methods our work in many plaees now suffers. The good we can 
do is only limited by the financial aid you are willing to give us. 

A MESSAGE TO MEMBERS. 

Our club work is so graded that you can start in at any time and 
take up as much work as you desire and are able to master. ALL 
ACTIVE MEMBERS receive practical education in mental, moral 
and physical culture. When the cooking school section meets, the 
food problem is studied. The " EASTMAN SYSTEM" of Pure 
Food Cake Making is taught. All cakes are started in a cold oven. 
"No baking powders are used. The c;ike mold is never greased and 
is sanitary. Failures are prevented and rough roads made easy. 
No home education is complete without this system of home baking. 
The club educates the members to he better home-makers and hovfie- 
keepers. 



'THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT." 147 

PUPILS RECEIVED. 

As soon as fm ids can be secured to maintain such work, the club 
fits up a class room in connection with their club rooms, and they 
employ a competent teacher to conduct, afternoon and night classes. 
Here for a small tuition any one of good moral character may en- 
rol! as a student. 

OUR NIGHT CLASSKS. 

Afford an opportunity for working girls to qualify to make better 
wives or to do better service as domestics. 

People of culture and wealth have not been slow to realize the 
vast help we can render them in raising the standard of service in 
their homes for maids and other help. Here they can come and 
qualify for home or hotel service. In our opinion this is the only 
practical way to solve the help problem in home-keeping. Will you 
not aid this department of our work in every way you may be able? 
Our work appeals to people who think deeply, and who love the 
home and who would make any reasonable sacrifice for it, If you 
want to aid in the organization of these clubs, or give- financial aid, 
you should consult us or some of our workers. A letter sent to our 
National Headquarters addressed to us or the Secretary, B. P. Snell, 
will receive prompt attention. I will now name some kinds of peo- 
ple that are found in every community that our work does not ap- 
peal to and ask the question, do you belong to this class? 

In every town and city may be found a large class of people who 
care more for vaudeville and chewing gum than anything else. 
Reader do you belong to this class? 

Again we find another large class, they are an influential elemeni 
and could do great good in our work but they think they are born 
into this world solely for the purpose of being entertained. They 
spend their time in mutual admiration of each other. They have 
talents of high order but are literally burying them in the earth. 
Brother, Sister, rouse thyself from this self-imposed hypnotic spoil. 
The day of opportunity will soon be over : it is a brief day. Theday 



148 "THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT:' 

of reckoning will soon be here. What will your harvest be? Unless 
you change your course now and take up some of "life's problems" 
in earnest, a long night of desolate regret will he your harvest. 
REMEMBER the only way to he happy is to he useful. In our 
day some persons of wealth and social prestige have given up the 
glare and glitter of so-called "Society" for a useful life among their 
fellows. Would to God, this home and food reform movement of 
our ASSOCIATED CLUBS would so appeal to you who now read 
these lines that our message may fall as good seed into a well pre- 
pared soil and bring forth a mighty harvest of good that shall live 
forever. 

I am simply a seed sower; we are told the time will come when 
"the reaper shall overtake the sower". Dear Reader, may we then 
both rejoice together. 

W. Fillmokk Eastman, 

President, "National Pure Pood Health Club". 
B. P. Snell, Sec'y and Treas. 

Headquarters, 160 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, 111., U. S. A. 



CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS. 

ARTICLE 1. All who subscribe to this Constitution, and pay one dollar for 
their certificate, are members at large, and are associated together for educa- 
tional purposes to uplift the home. Supporting members pay one dollar per 
year to the local club. Active members pay one dollar per year dues. 

ART. 2. THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION shall consist of its OFFICERS 
and MEMBERS and an "ADVISORY BOARD " selected from the different 
States. This association shall have corporate powers and be sell perpetuating. 
Vacancies may be filled at any time by the officers, but must be approved bj 
the ADVISORY BOARD at their next meeting. 

77/i? National Officers and Executive Board. 

ART. 3. The " NATIONAL OFFICERS " sha\\ consist of a President, Vice 

President, Secretary-Treasurer, National Superintendent of Clubs, and a General 

Manager, who shall have general supervision of the work of the Association. These 

officers shall constitute an "Executive Board," with full legal powers as Trus- 



NOXE— Mtvibert .it largt are nol me rs of any local club, but belong to ti. 



tees to hold, buy, sell or transfer property left for the Association 
and its work. Property left the Association by will or otherwise for edu 
cational work should be deeded to the "Executive Board" of the National 
Association Pure Food Health Club," Chicago, 111. Naming the President 
and Secretary. The "ADVISORY BOARD" shall co-operate with the Na- 
tional officers in such ways as may seem most expedient. The officers and 
members of each local club shall have charge of the work in their community 
and shall co-operate in every way with the National Officers in carrying out 
the work of the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION. 

Art. 4. This ASSOCIATION shall have a reading course on food values 
and Home Culture. While the books «in this course shall be furnished to the 
Members at reduced rates, no one is obligated to buy, only as they choose. In 
connection with this course Members are authorized to form local clubs and 
establish Pure Food Cooking Schools to teach the best mode of preparing food 
to promote health and cure disease. Where expedient regular classes shall 
be maintained during the school year, open to anyone upon the payment of a 
small tuition to the local Club. Anyone taking this course and passing a 
satisfactory examination before a committee shall receive a certificate. 

Art. 5. Our mission is to create a wholesome literature on Food Values 
and their best mode of preparation, to promote health and develop power. 
Educate our members to be more humane and just in all our dealings and 
thereby uplift the home. In furtherance of this work local Clubs should be 
formed, cooking school classes organized and maintained in each county of 
every state. A central college established to train workers in the chemistry 
of foods and physical culture, what to eat and how to eat it, proper breathing 
and exercise and then send them out to teach and organize the food and home 
reform movement. By earnest co-operation of all good men and women in 
this work, we look for length of days and the dawn of the new heaven ami 
new earth. 

Art. 6. The officers of each local club when duly elected and installed 
shall be reported by the Secretary to the National Secretary and recorded by 
each one. The Secretary of each local club shall send an annual report of the 
work done and the condition of the club to the National Secretary, who shall 
tabulate them for the annual report of the Association. 

Art. 7. Such by-laws may be adopted by local Clubs and Schools to carry 
out the provisions of this constitution as do not conflict with the laws and 
purposes of this organization. 

Art. S. This constitution may be amended or enlarged, upon due notice 
being given by the National Officers. 

By-lazvs for Local Clubs. 

The following by-laws adopted by the Club at Fond du Lac. Wis., will suit 
most Clubs and may be adopted by them : 

By-law 1. Officers. — The officers of this club shall consist of a President, 
Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer. 

149 



By-law :.'. Duty of Officers. — It shall be the duty of the President to 
preside at all meetings of the Club and to transact such other duties as belong 
to that office. 

By-law 3. Vice-President. — It shall be the duty of the Vice-President to 
preside at meetings of the Club in the absence of the President. 

By-law 4. Secretary. — It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep a 
faithful record of each meeting of the Club, report annually to the National 
Secretary and oftener if requested. 

By-law 5. Treasurer. — It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive 
and hold all money of the Club and pay out the same only upon orders voted 
1 y the Club and signed by the President and Secretary. 

By-law 6. It shall be the duty of each officer and committee to submit a 
written report of their work to the Club or National Association when called 
upon to do so, and turn over to their successors in office everything belonging 
thereto. 

By-law 7. The time and place of meeting to be fixed by vote of the 
Club. 

By-law S. All who have paid one dollar for their certificate and have 
been approved and enrolled as members of a local Club shall have a right to 
vote on all questions before the Club. 

By-law 9. All votes shall be taken by the uplifted right hand unless 
otherwise provided. 

By-law 10. All officers shall be elected for one year unless otherwise 
provided and any office may be declared vacant by vote of the Club for in- 
competence or neglect of duty. 

By-law 11. Should any change be desired in these laws or additions 
thereto due notice must be given in writing of such change at a previous 
meeting and two thirds of the votes cast must be in favor of the change. All 
such changes must he reported to the National Secretary and approved by 
the Association. 

By-law 1:2. The following standing committees for the year shall be 
elected. Each committee shall consist of five members unless otherwise stated 
and the first one named shall ordinarily be Chairman. 

(1) COMMITTEE ON PLACE TO MEET. 

(2) COMMITTEE ON PUBLICITY. 

(3) COMMITTEE ON READING COURSE AND DEMONSTRA- 
TIONS OE THE CLUB, SALE Oh PURE EOOD CAKES. BREAD, PL'S. 
ETC.. ETC. 

(4) COMMITTEE ON PREPARATION OE THE COURSE. OE THE 
COOKING SCHOOL CALENDAR FOR THE YEAR. 

(5) COMMITTEE OX FINANCE OR WAYS AND MEANS. 

This committee shall have authority to engage teachers, when duly qual 
ilied, and fix their salaries, when in their judgment the finances of the Club 
will warrant it. All members and friends of the work are expected to co- 
operate with (Ins committee in raising funds for the work 

1 51 1 



We earnestly solicit the co-operation in this national organization of all 
local clubs and local workers. We can thus unify our strength and increase 
our working powers for good a hundred fold. We want strong men and women 
who can lecture on our work, to act as state superintendents. A state is cut 
up into districts and each district put in charge of a manager who will look- 
after the work in that territory and report to the state superintendent. The 
Superintendent of each state will report to the National President at Chicago. 
The plan is to have a depository of the books belonging to the reading course 
in each state in care of the superintendent. The district manager will employ 
helpers and make a thorough canvass for the course. Free reading rooms should 
be opened in each city and a local manager employed to take charge of the 
work. There should be an attractive kitchen fitted up with gas stoves in the 
front part of the suite used for this work, where these "Pure Food Cakes," 
"Bread" and "Pies" could be made to supply the public demand for better things. 
Off from this should be the reading room and class room, where classes could 
be trained. 

Contributions of money for this work should be sent to the Advisory 
Board or to the President and Secretary of the National Association. Dona- 
tions of books or magazines suitable to this work may be sent direct to the 
manager of the local work, or Pure Food reading rooms in each city. 

For further information address any member of the "Advisory Board," or 

W. Fillmore Fast max, President, 
Bert P. Snell, Secretary, 

"National Pure Food Health Club," Room o2G, 160 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, 111. 

U. S. A. 



George L. Stearns writes: 

Wiluamsport, Pa., Sept. 4, 191 1. 
"This is to inform you that W. F. Eastman gave a course of his lectures 
here to large and enthusiastic audiences and aroused much interest in the 
city. We are highly pleased with his work." 



Herpolsheimers, of Grand Rapids, Mich., says: 

"Professor Eastman, of Chicago, has a national reputation as an expert 
His lectures here were highly educational." 



Dayton, Ohio. 

The Dayton News says "Prof. Eastman is an apostle of Pure Food. His 
lectures are full of clever witticisms and good sense It is a tonic for our 
times when people can listen to such lectures as these " 

151 



Club Programme 



Cookino School Section — Three Months' Course. 

1st. Week: — 

A paper on the Woi'k of the Club, by the President , 

Demonstration: — Cream of Tartar and Soda Biscuit, 

Made and served by 

2d. Week: — 

"Angel Food" will be made by 

Paper: — On the ll, New Art Science ' of Cake Making, by 

3d. Week: — 

' ' Baaburrys "by 

Paper: — On "Hygienic Cookery," by 

4th. Week: — 

''Health Bread" from "Whole Wheat." 

Paper: — A paper on "Health Building"" by Natural 

.Methods, by 

5th. Week: — 

The "President Loaf Cake," by 

Paper: — On "The Pure Pood Problem," by. . . ....... 

6th. Week: — 

"Eggless Ginger Bread," by 

Paper: — On "Seasonable Foods" by 

7th. Week: — 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes, by 

Paper: — " On the Morning Meal" by 

8th. Week: — 

"Light Rolls," by 

Paper: — On Horn" Baking, by 

9th. Week: — 

Ribbon Cuke, by 

Paper:— On "The Eastman Way," by 

10th. Week: — 

White Spice Cake or White Fruit Cake, by 

Paper: — On "The Home and Food Reform," by 

21th. Week: — 

• "Cherry Pie, "by 

Paper: — On "The Marriage Reform," by 

12th. Week: — 

' 'Sunshine Cake, " by 

p ( , }>er: — On "Mow to Care for the Infant" or "Our Dumb Animals." 

Reports from Standing Committees, Etc., Etc 

152 



Some Hints for the Hostess 

Invitations to a card party arc formal or informal according to 
the size of the affair and the circumstances under which it is given. 

For a small affair consisting of a I'rw couples, all well acquainted, 
the visiting card of the hostess, with the day and date added and 
the word cards or progressive whist or any other substitute in keep- 
ing, would be enough. 

For a party where a special costume will be required, something 
more definite might be added. For instance : 

•Miss Black requests the pleasure of Miss Dow's company at a 
Chinese card party on Thursday, Dec. 11, at 8 :30 p. m." 

The wording of a formal function such, for instance, as a silver 
wedding celebration, would be : 

"Mr. and Mrs. James Claghorn request the pleasure of Mr. and 
Mrs. Morris Wardle's company on Dec. 23, at 9 p. m., for progress- 
ive euchre." 

If the affair is given for any special reason as to honor a friend 
from a distance, this would be explained in a later phrase as "to 
meet Mrs. Tuxall," or "to celebrate their twenty-fifth anniversary." 

Refreshments to follow upon cards vary, too, according to the 
formality of the function. A good supper menu, not too elaborate, 
for the average function, would be : Chicken bouillon with whipped 
cream served in cups with tiny hot biscuit. Second — Creamed crab- 
meat in hollowed out green peppers or with green peppers chopped 
into the sauce ; third, any nice salad of fruit on lettuce leaves 
dressed with oil and lemon juice ; fourth, ice cream with ginger 
sauce and little cakes. 

Or the individual hostess may prefer the following, which is 
equally tasty and up-to-date : Chicken patties, sandwiches, lettuce, 
pickles and cheese fillings, orange salad or a fruit combination, ice 
cream, cakes and coffee. 



1 53 



Style of the Dinner Table. 

The service oi the dinner should proceed without baste and yet 
without long pauses between each course. 

When a dinner commences with oysters or clams, two plates arc- 
laid at each cover just before dinner is announced. One, a deep 
plate, or one made especially for oysters and clams, contains the 
shellfish laid on cracked ice and this is set upon a second plate. 

It the dinner begins with an appetizer of some sort, or with soup, 
each cover is laid with an attractively decorated plate. The napkin, 
folded and ironed square, with a square of bread laid between the 
folds, may be put on the plate or placed at the left <>f the cover, li 
place cards are used they should be laid at the left of the cover. 

At the conclusion of each course the soiled plate is removed and a 
fresh one put in its place. When the next course is served the 
empty plate, which is called a place or service plate, is removed and 
the plate containing the following course is laid before the guest. 

A well-trained servant presents the dishes at the left hand of 
every guest in turn, beginning with the woman who sits at the right 
side of the host, unless the hostess prefers to follow the custom of 
having each course passed to her first in order that she may sec 
that it is correctly served. 

At a formal dinner the host never carves the meat, and the host- 
ess does not help her guests to anything. Everything is served 
from the pantry. That is, the portions are placed on the individual 
plates in the pantry and thus served to the guests. The fish, the 
punch, the salad and game course, the entrees and sweet course are 
always served on individual plates. The meat may be served in 
the same way, or it may be carved in the pantry and then passed 
on the platter to each guest. The vegetables should be placed in 
vegetable dishes, passed, and each guest allowed to help himself or 
herself. 

If one wishes, a much simpler dinner may be given by the host- 
ess who only employs one maid, or possibly no maid at all. 

In this case, the soup tureen is placed before the hostess and a 
pile of soup plates is put at her place. After all theguestsare 
served the tureen is removed. 

After this course, the fish and fish plates are put before the master 
of the house and when each guesl has received a portion, the wait- 
ress passes on her tray a dish of potatoes and one of cucumbers. 

154 



STYLE OF THE DINNER TABLE 155 

The host carves the meat, and after the maid has placed the plates 
containing the meat before each guest she passes the vegetables. 
The vegetable dishes are then laid on the sideboard or serving 
table, but the roast is left before the carver. 

If game is served it should be carved by the master of the house. 
Salad should be put in a large bowl and passed to each guest by 
the waitress, or the bowl of salad may be placed before the hostess 
for serving. 

The hostess also serves the ices, puddings or pastry, etc. 

The coffee is usually brought to the table in small cups, but if 
the hostess prefers, an after dinner coffee set may be placed before 
her with the small cups and saucers and spoons, so that she may 
pour the coffee for her guests. The maid then passes the cream and 
sugar so that each guest may help himself or herself to whatever is 
needed. 



THE BRAVEST BATTLE. 

The bravest battle that ever was fought, 

Shall I tell you where and when? 
On the maps of the world you'll find it not , 

'Twas fought by the mothers of men. 

Nay, not with the cannon or battle shot, 

With word or noble pen ; 
Nay, not with eloquent word or thought, 

From the mouths of wonderful men. 

But deep in the walled-up woman's heart 

Of woman that would not yield, 
But bravely, silently bore her pari — 

Lo ! there is the battlefield. 

No marching troop, no bivouac song, 

No banner to gleam and wave ' 
But, oh ! these battles : they last so long, 

From babyhood to the grave. — Joaquin Miller. 



f ==s \ 

HOW TO ORGANIZE A 

Pure food fiealtb 0ub 



;*m& 



t)ROCURE a sufficient number of club booklets to 
place one in the hands of those you desire for mem- 
bers. After they have read it over carefully, solicit each 
one personally to join you. Call a meeting, at some 
home, to organize. All it costs is $ 1 .00 to become an 
active member of our Association. Collect the fee from 
each one, forward it by draft or money order to B. P. 
Snell, Sec'y and Treas., 1 60 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, 111., 
and a beautiful certificate will be sent to each. This will 
entitle all to any book in the reading course at wholesale 
rates. By vote, adopt the National Constitution and 
Club By-Laws, elect your officers and Standing Com- 
mittees, read and adopt our course for demonstration 
work, fix a time for your meetings, and go ahead. 
Membership dues are one dollar per year, payable 
quarterly. 



®h^ Nattmtai fim $ooh TJfraltlj (Elub 

Is an Association of Clubs engaged in Local 
and General Work 





( The President calls the Club to order on time.) 


©pening Cyercise 

Song " America." 

The president shall then read the object of our organization. 

Dear Sisters and Brothers: — We have met together as a club to 
uplift and defend the home. A world-wide interest is being awaken- 
ed in our Home Reform Work. We hold it to be the duty of all men 
to unite together with us in a systematic study of the wants of the 
home. We are here to study foods, rich in the essential requirements 
of the body, to promote health and cure disease. In the study of 
what to eat and how to eat it, what to cook and how to cook 
it, you will become acquainted with seasonable foods which are of 
prime importance. We know there is an intimate relation between 
what we eat and our mental, moral and physical well-being. To 
promote health, closely associated with the food problem is abdom- 
inal breathing and physical culture. We defend the home by ex- 
alting the marriage relation and teaching kindness to animals. Let 
Jove for our work and kindness towards ea^h other dwell in our 
councils and inspire every effort. 

L57 



©rfcer of Bueiness 

1st. Roll Call. ( By Secretary.) 

2d. Reading of minutes of previous meeting. ( By Secretary.) 

3d. Demonstration work. ( See Food Study course.) 

4th. Reports of Special or Standing Committees. 

5th. Reading of a paper or lecture. 

6th. New business. Reception of members, etc. 

7th. Unfinished business. 

8th. Intermission and refreshments. 



Cl09ino lEyerciee 

Leader. What is the first duty of ma?i f 

Response. To take proper care of his health. 

Leader . Why is health so important f 

Response. Without health all our joys are shaded and pros- 
perity crumbles to dust. 

Leader. If health is so valuable, how can we best promote it ? 

Response. By systematic study of food values, by devoting 
some time each day to our reading course, by learning the character 
and wants of the body, the value of sunshine and physical culture. 

Leader. What is the oldest and most sacred institution in the 
world ? 

Response. The HOME. Before the church sprang into being 
and older than the state, stands the home in all the splendor of 
primevil man. It is the cradle of the race. Civilization has a'" 1 
vanced or declined as the home has been strong or weak. 

Leader. Why is the Home the most sacred institution f 

Response. It is the foundation of all others. It is our first 
and last school. A good home has been chosen as the best type of 
Heaven. 

Leader. What are the two most sacred words in the English 
language ? 

Response. Mother and Home — the first and last links in 
memory's chain that bind us to all that is purest and best. 

158 



Leader. In our day, what are some of the chief evils that destroy 
the home ? 

Response. Poor food and poor cooking promote intemperance 
and other excesses. Men who are not properly nourished often 
seek the stimulus of strong drink and fall an easy prey to other 
vices. Adulterated and poisonous foods together with poor cook- 
ing promote indigestion, dyspepsia and bad livers, and these are 
prolific causes of family jars and divorce. Another home destroyer 
is the very low standard of marriage. 

Leader. How can we safeguard the home ? 

Response. By being more humane and just in all our deal- 
ings. By teaching kindness to animals and all dependent upon us. 
By elevating the qualifications for marriage four or five degrees. 
All should be industrious, moral and free from hereditary taint. 
Every bride should be trained in the work of home keeping before 
assuming its sacred duties. 

Leader. Will right viezvs about the home safeguard it and im- 
prove citizenship ? 

Response. Yes, by promoting the home we elevate ourselves 
and save it from disaster. 

Leader. Your responses to my questions show that you have as a 
club a grand mission. Remember that the noblest life is a life of serv- 
ice. Reme?nber that the only way to work for God is to wo? k for hu- 
manity. Be faithful in your home life. Be PUNCTUAL in your 
attendance upon all meetings of our noble organization. Be thankful 
that you are able to take some part in the world s work. " Let your 
light so shine before men that others, seeing vour good works, will 
glorify your Father which is in Heaven." 

Response. AMEN. 



For Receipt Books and further information, address the President, 
W. FILLMORE EASTMAN, 
or B. P. SNELL, Secretary, 

J 60 N. r-ifth Ave.. Chicago. 



1 59 



TESTIMONIALS 

WE HAVE SPACE FOR ONLY A FEW TESTIMONIALS OF THE PEO- 
PLE AND PRESS. 

The Cleveland Press says : "Prof. Eastman has conducted most success- 
fully, a cooking school at the Bailey department store, this city, and on the West 
Side. His pleas for Pure Food, and better equipment for the home and table 
are of great benefit to all." 

The Lima Gazette says : "Mr. Eastman is attracting large numbers of our 
people. His cakes look good, and taste better. Ladies should investigate." 

The Burlington Hawkeye (la.) say- : "If the young ladies attending Prof. 
Eastman's cooking school, attain the proficiency of the genius who presides there, 
and who made a cake for this office, they will have no trouble to find life part- 
ners among the unmarried of this office force." 

M. D. Scott of Kewanee, 111., says: "Mr. Eastman's method is the finest 
I ever saw, and his work in this city has been most successful." 

Feb. 15th, 1904. 
The O. T. Johnson Co. of Galesburg, 111. says: "W. Fillmore Eastman has 
been with us for the past four weeks, and we have found him a perfect gentle- 
man, and his work first-class in all respects. We take pleasure in recommend- 
ing him to any one needing his service." 

Monmouth, 111., April 4th, 1904. 
"We take pleasure in saying that Mr. Eastman is a thorough gentleman and 
one who understands his work. The crowds we had each day far exceeded 
our expectations as well as the sales." 

Very truly, 

Wright Bros. & Co. 
Norwnlk, O., Aug. .''.0th, 1904. 
To Whom It May Concern : 

"We, the undersigned, have been privileged to attend the lectures given 
in this city by Air. Eastman. He is a gentleman of culture and refinement, and 
an ardent advocate of pure food. His lectures will interest and benefit all, 
and should he again favor Norwalk with a visit, he would be greeted by an- 
other large class." 

Signed, Mrs. A. T. Bloxham, Ex. Pres, 
Mrs. John Parker, 1st V. Pres., 
Mrs. J. R. Wetmore. 2nd V. Pres.. 

Ladies' Aid Society, M. E. Church. 
Kill 



Bert P. Snell of Chicago, 111. (a chemist), says: "I have carefully ex- 
amined the manuscript of this book and the cake formulas by Prof. Eastman 
and can readily see he has made a close study of the proportions, and if strict 
attention is paid to same in preparing and baking, the public should have 
cakes scientifically perfect. It is a book that is commendable and praiseworthy 
and we do indeed offer our congratulations. With best wishes for success we 
remain. Yours cordiaiiy, 

Bert P. Snell Co., 
Scientific Laboratory, 
May 9th, 1906. 56 5th Ave., Chicago." 

The Danville Democrat says: "Prof. Eastman of Chicago, gave a very 
entertaining and instructive lecture to the ladies of the 'Woman's Club' (Domestic 
Science Section) at their annual meeting yesterday. He is a good talker and 
very earnest in his work. His part proved one of the very best on the yearly 
programme." 

Fisher, Myers & Co., Ottawa. 111., saj : "We wish to testify that Prof. 
Eastman's lectures in our city on cooking and pure foods, have been well 
attended and were highly appreciated. His methods are new and well calculated 
to attract attention." 
To Whom It May Concern: Goshen, Ind., June '.), 1905 

"Prof. W. Fillmore Eastman has been with us demonstrating the Van 
Deusen cake molds and giving popular and practical lectures on cooking and 
baking at 2 :30 o'clock each day. Mr. Eastman has never failed to hold his 
audience while at this store throughout his entire lecture, which by the way 
is interesting and practical. His method is right and he explains it under- 
standingly. His cakes are the best and finest we ever had the pleasure of tasting, 
and ladies never failed to make a great ado about them when he removes 
those self convincing "Angel Foods" and "Sunshines" from the oven at the 
close of each lecture. His pleasant stay at this store has been very much to 
our advantage, especially from an advertising standpoint. Perhaps the best 
praise we can give Mr. Eastman is that we expect to have him to give a series 
of his lectures and demonstrations at our South Bend store in the near future 

Very truly. Salinger Brothers. 

Tiffin, O., October 24, 1904. 

"This is to certify that Prof. W. F. Eastman of Chicago, has just closed 
a four weeks' contract with us, and his work has been perfectly satisfactory. 
He thoroughly understands his profession and we heartily recommend him 
to the trade and the public." Yours truly. 

The H. H. Griggs Co., 

J. E. Brown, Mgr. 
To Whom It May Concern : Aurora, 111., October 17, 1905. 

"Prof. Eastman has just closed his free cooking school and demonstration 
of the Van Deusen cake molds and housefurnishing specialties. It was a good 
trade bringer and a success. Prof. Eastman has original ways that make the 
people take to him. We can recommend Prof. Eastman." 

Yours, Cooper Bros 

ibi 



Marion, Ind., Feb. 6th, 1905. 

To Whom It May Concern : 

".Mr. W. F. Eastman has been with the Boston Store Company, demon- 
strating the Van Deusen cake molds and giving instructions in cooking etc. 
His work with ns has been very satisfactory in every respect." 

Respectfully, 

The Boston Store Co., 
H. M. Miller, Pres. 

GAS COMPANY WELL. PLEASED AT LAPORTE, IND. 
Prof. W. F. Eastman, Chicago, III., 

Dear Sir: I found during your stay in Laporte, the interest in gas stoves 
was largely increased. We had many buyers of gas ranges during your stay, 
who had seen you bake in our ranges and were convinced that gas was the 
only satisfactory way. 

Wm. H. Hulswit, Mgr. 

Bloomington, 111., March 3, 1906. 
Holder & Athey Hardware Co. say : "Prof. Eastman closed a two weeks' 
engagement with us last week. We were well pleased with his lectures, which 
attracted a large crowd of our best ladies every day, and finally outgrew our 
accommodations and he removed to the Unitarian Church lecture room, where 
he remained two more weeks with increasing sucess." 

Huntington, Ind., May 22, 1906. 
Prof. W. Fillmore Eastman. Wabash, Ind., 

Dear Brother: I am sure your book is a good one and would be valuable 
in any home. I greatly enjoyed your lecture in my church and heard some of 
our people wdio were there' speak very highly of it. I wish you great success as 
you go to Goshen, to begin your work there. 

Sincerely yours, 

J. A. Beaty, 
Pastor M. E. Church 

The Conron Hardware Co., Danville, 111., say: "The classes in cake 
making, conducted by Prof. Eastman in our city, were attended by the leading 
ladies, who pronounced the lectures interesting and instructive and his system 
of cake making excellent. We are glad to recommend Prof. Eastman's cooking 
school to all interested." 

O. R. Schultz. Sec'y. 

Peru. Ind., April 25, 1905. 

'Prof. Eastman of Chicago, gave a lecture, here in Carnegie Library Hall, 

on 'The Home and the Value of Domestic Science Training,' which was both 

instructive and interesting. I cordially recommend him." 

Yours truly, 

F. M. Stutesman, 

(Merchant.) 
162 



Rockforcf, Illinois 
Carolyn E. Hamilton, 933 X >rth Second Street, writes: "I want you to 
know how much I value your instructions in cake making. I prize them not 
only for the delicious cakes we make after your method, hut most of all. for 
the confidence and peace of mind that comes to the cook with your system of 
raising and haking. My little daughter of eleven years, who had never cooked 
or made a cake, expressed a desire to make an Angel's Food for Thanksgiving 
"all alone," so she was given the materials and your cook-hook and made the 
cake absolutely alone and the result was a perfect cake, light, tender and de- 
licious, as good as anyone of long experience could make. My cook says, "It 
is no trouble to hake a cake your way." We have made many since you were 
here and never had a failure. I wish every young woman could have the benefit 
of your instruction and especial]} T think it would be of value in the Domestic 
Science Schools. Most cordially yours. 

January 26, 19Q7. Carolyn 1". Hamilton. 

Elgin. 111.. Oct. 15, L906. 
Geo. M. Peck writes : "We take pleasure in commending Prof. W. F. 
Eastman and his Cooking School. He was here nearly a month, with good 
results and a growing interest to the last." 

Appleton. Wis., March 5, 190S. 
J. 1). Steele writes: "Prof. W. Fillmore Eastman has given daily demon- 
strations and lectures on pure foods, etc., for about four weeks. His lectures 
were instructive and entertaining and drew a crowd to each lecture." etc. 



Albert J. Hahne of Hahne & Co., Newark, N. J 
May 9, 1912, writes: — 

"Prof. W. F. Eastman has just completed a Course of Lectures here at the 
store on Hygie?iic Cooking and Foods which proved quite a source of 
attraction " 

Very truly yours, 

Albert J. Hahne. 



It 13 



The Eastman Combined 
Measuring Spoon 

The Latest and Best. 

A Necessity in Every Home. 



You will notice the bowl of the spoon is 
set at right angle for inserting in jars or 
bottles to be filled readily, and is very use- 
ful in removing cream lrorn the top of milk 
oottles without disturbing contents. 

By the use of this measuring spoon and 
the Eastman system of Cake, Bread and 
Pie making, which can be sent to one ad- 
dress postage prepaid for $1.S5, you can 
dispense with "Baking Powders" of all 
lands, and use successfully pure Cream of 
Tartar and Soda instead; by doing your 
own measuring and mixing, you will save 
fully three fourths of your Baking Powder 
bill annually. 

Take all measurements even, and follow 
directions in the "Eastman Book" and you 
will not only be successful and save dollars, 
but you will have better food and better 
health. 

In advancing the "Food Reform" move- 
ment and evolving the "Twentieth Century" 
home, "no greater boon to the cook and 
homekeeper has arisen for public favor. 
It does away with guessing or "pinches" 
and "lumps" in the kitchen, and prevents 
failure. 

It is well made of sheet steel and nickel 
plated, and makes an admirable Wedding 
or Christmas present. Retail price 35 
cents. By mail 40 cents. 

Special price by the gross to dealers on 
addressing the Manufacturers. 

AUDET NOVELTY MFG. CO. 



WILLIAMSPORT, 



PENN'A 



KU 



SNELL'S RENOWNED FLAVORING POWDERS 



THE MOST DELICIOUS f XT I TCP 
THE MOST ECONOMICAL 111 KJJL, 




SNELL'S RENOWNED 
FLAVORING POWDERS 

Produce a flavor to all delicacies, which 
will satisfy and delight the appetite 
of the most fastidious epicure 
Try them and YOU will use no other 



The finest flavorings in the world for flavoring 

CAKES, ICE CREAM, PUDDINGS, 
SAUCES AND OTHER DELICACIES 



Vanilla, Lemon, Orange, 
Pine Apple, Ginger, 
Nutmeg, Cassia Cin- 
namon, Cloves, 
Tropical Fruits, 
Etc. 



The 



• are th. 



FLAVORINGS 

Which conform t<> the 
"National Pure Food Law" 

They are the flavor- 
ings that./Z« vor. They 
are the purest. They 
are the most econom- 
ical. They are non- 
alcoholic. They do not 
evaporate in baking-. 
They keep your Ice 
Cream and Ices in a 
firmer, wore solid 
state. They impart 
to your cakes and all 
delicacies, that true 
and most delicious 
flavor. A Pure Cake 
requires Snell's Pure 
Flavoring, so 

USE NO OTHER 



If it is impossible to obtain 
these tint- Flavorings in your 
city order direct from us. 
Price per 2 oz. jar, 45c. 

by mail or express. 
Per dozen, $4.00. 

Retail price, at grocers, 
40c per jar. 

Can supply you with 
any flavor you desire. 

Also Drter Specerier, 
that delicious blend of 
Herbs, Spices, Flavors, etc , 
which you should use in 
seasoning your soups, Me;iis, 
sicus, vegetables) Dress- 
ings, Eggs,«tc.,etc. Slzeand 
price same as Flavorings. 

TRY IT 

Address all orders to 

BERTP.SNELL&CO. 

■60 N. Fiflb Ave. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 



IUL 10 1912 



LIB RARY OF CONGRESS 



llHiiHii'Uliiiiiiiiii» i,i|,i "" " 
014 520 402 1 




