t7 <7 . 




To; 




T V 









SCIENCE OF COMMON LIFE 



MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED 

LONDON . BOMBAY . CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK . BOSTON . CHICAGO 
DALLAS . SAN FKANCISCO 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



SCIENCE OF 

COMMON LIFE 



BV 

A. T. SIMMONS, B.Sc. (LOND.) 

ASSOCIATE OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, LONDON 
AND 

E. STENHOUSE, B.Sc. (LOND.) 

ASSOCIATE OF THE ROVAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, LONDON 




MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED 

ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON 

1912 



RICHARD CLAY AND SONS, LIMITED, 
NSWICK STREET, STAMFORD STREET, S.E., 

AND BUNGAY, SUFFOLK. 

COPYRIGHT. 



First Edition, with title " Experimental Hygiene" 1901. 

Re published as " The Science of Common Life" 1904. 
Reprinted, 1905, 1906, 1907, (with additions) 1908, 1909, (with corrections) 1911, 1912. 




PREFACE 

THE value of an introduction to the scientific method in the 
school training of both sexes is now fully recognised. There 
is still some difference of opinion, however, as to how girls can 
best be taught to appreciate the value of experiment and 
deduction in the endeavour to understand the forces of Nature. 
Fortunately, we believe, the idea gains ground that there are 
no more suitable means than the ordinary operations and 
practices of the household to illustrate physical and chemical 
laws. Adopting the general trend of the recent syllabus of the 
Board of Education, though in no sense slavishly following its 
details, we have attempted to make students familiar with 
those broad principles of science without which the intelligent 
guidance of the domestic economy is impossible. 

Adhering to the belief that it is only by experiment that the 
truths presented can be made real to young minds, we have 
arranged a large number of suitable practical exercises the due 
performance of which will provide a sure foundation for the 
later explanations of the teacher. Unless the experiments are 
carried out by, or at least in the presence of, the pupil, much of 
the value of the course of study will be lost. Since, too, our 
experience shows that as many of the faculties of the pupil as 
possible should be brought into play, special attention has been 
paid to the illustrations throughout the book. The majority of 



vi PREFACE 



them are new, and we are glad to express our indebtedness to 
Mr. O. L. Lacour for the care he has taken in representing 
apparatus and experiments in an artistic and attractive manner. 
We gratefully acknowledge how much the book owes to 
Prof. R. A. Gregory. Not only has he given us free permission 
to use any parts of previously published volumes written by 
him in association with one of us, but throughout the prepara- 
tion of this volume he has placed his broad experience and 
judicious criticism at our disposal. We are sensible of the fact 
that any merits the following pages may prove to possess are 
in a large measure due to his generous assistance. 

A. T. SIMMONS, 

E. STENHOUSE. 
September, 1901. 



PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION 

THE demand for a new edition of this book has provided the 
opportunity to change its title. Many teachers, more particu- 
larly perhaps those in schools for girls, are introducing 
simple experimental work designed to give their pupils sound 
general ideas of the scientific principles underlying everyday 
phenomena ; and they are seeking a class-book arranged with 
this object in view. To direct the attention of teachers to such 
a book, while at the same time indicating that the volume pro- 
vides an introduction to the principles of domestic science, the 
title Science of Common Life has been adopted instead of 
Experimental Hygiene, which has in some quarters given rise 
to ambiguity. 

A. T. S. 

E. S. 
November, 1904. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER 

I. LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 



II. CUBIC AND FLUID MEASURE 13 

III. WEIGHT AND DENSITY , 23 

IV. THERMOMETERS 40 

V. CAPACITY FOR HEAT, CHANGE OF STATE 54 

VI. TRANSFERENCE OF HEAT 65 

VII. SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 75 

VIII. THE ATMOSPHERE 91 

IX. BURNING AND RUSTING 105 

X. COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 121 

XI. WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 134 

XII. NATURAL WATERS 148 

XIII. CARBON DIOXIDE 161 

XIV. COAL GAS 174 

XV. VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 186 

XVI. THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR .... 207 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

XVII. THE SUGARS 223 

XVIII. ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 233 

XIX. A LOAF OF BREAD 243 

XX. ACETIC ACID 2^2 

XXI. TARTARIC ACID 259 

XXII. FATS AND OILS. SOAP AND GLYCERINE 264 

XXIII. FLESH FOODS AND FISH. METHODS OF COOKING . 272 

XXIV. MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 283 

XXV. THE HUMAN FRAME. DIGESTION AND DIET .... 292 

XXVI. MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 308 

EXAMINATION PAPERS 318 

INDEX 327 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 

CHAPTER I 
LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 

MEASUREMENT OF LENGTH 

1. Inches and fractions. (a) Eighths of an inch. Obtain a tape 
measure. Notice that each inch is divided into a certain number of 
equal parts called fractions of an inch. Usually there are eight of these 
parts marked on each inch of a tape measure ; therefore there are four 
in half an inch and two in a quarter of an inch (Fig. i). Write down 



QUARTERS 



FIG. i. Fractions of an inch. 



the following fractions of an inch in the order of their length, putting 
the greatest first and the smallest last: \ in., in., \ in., \ in. in., 
| in. , | in. 

(b) Sixteenths of an inch. More accurate measures have each inch 
divided into sixteen instead of eight equal parts. If you have such a 
measure, find, by counting, the number of sixteenths of an inch there 
are in ^ in., ^ in., and f in. If your inches are not divided into 
sixteenths, you should refer to Fig. i, which shows inches divided 

E EXP. HYG. B 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



into this number of parts. Write down which is the greater fraction in 
each of the following pairs, referring to your measure, or Fig. i, if 
necessary : & or T V f or T 6 ff , f or H, & or i H r i> I r A- 

2. Simple measurements. Using a tape 
measure, find the length, or width, of any con- 
venient object, such as the top of a table or 
desk. Write down the length in feet, inches, 
and fractions of an inch, thus : 

Width of desk, 2 feet, 3! inches. 
Length of sheet of foolscap paper, I foot, 
l inches. 

3. Decimal fractions. Obtain a rule having 
the inches on one edge divided into ten equal 
parts instead of the eight or sixteen parts 
usually found (Fig. 2). How many tenths are 
there in half an inch ? The tenths of an inch 
can be \yritten like common fractions, for in- 
stance, T^ signifies one-tenth, and & means 
three-tenths. A more convenient way is to 
separate the inches from the tenths by means 
of a dot. Thus, a length of 6 T \ in. is written 
on this Decimal System as 6 "3. The two ways 
of writing tenths in common and decimal 
fractions may be compared as follows : 



Common! 
fractions / 



3 4 5 
> " 



8_9_l.ft 
" A T 



f?actionl }o'. o- 2 ,o-3,o- 4 o-5,o-6,o7, 0-8,0-9, i 

4. Measurements in tenths. Measure one 
or two small objects as before, using your rule 
divided into inches and tenths instead of the 
tape measure. Write down the number of 
inches and tenths in the way described ; thus, 
length of a new lead pencil, 7*1 inches. 

5. Metric measures of length. Notice that 
one edge of the rule provided is not divided 
into inches and fractions of inches, but is like 
the inside scale, B, shown in Fig. 2. 

The smallest of these divisions are called 
millimetres. Ten millimetres make one of the 
numbered divisions, called centimetres; ten 
centimetres make one decimetre ; and ten deci- 
metres make one metre, which is a little longer 
than a yard. 

6. Relation between metric and British 

measures of length. Find by examining your rule the number of 
Centimetres and tenths of a centimetre which are equal to the length 
of four inches. Find also the number of centimetres in 7^ or 7 '5 inches, 



A B 

FIG. 2. A, Inches and 
tenths. B, Centimetres 
and millimetres. 



LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 



and in 1 1 inches, and the number of millimetres in the length of one 
inch. By comparing the two scales on your rule, observe that 

Number of centimetres in one foot = 3O'5. 
Number of inches in one decimetre = .3 "9. 

7. Metre and yard. Upon the back of your tape measure, mark off a 
length equal to 100 centimetres, that is, I metre, starting from the 
point where the inches begin on the other side. Prick a hole through 
the measure at the point where you mark the length of a metre, then 
turn over the measure and notice where the hole occurs on the inch 
scale. 

Number of inches in one metre = 39 '3- 
Number of centimetres in one yard = 91-4. 

Measurement of length. Every one is familiar with 
such common lengths as an inch, foot, and yard, and many 
people can make a fairly good estimate of any of these 
lengths, even if they have not a tape measure or rule with 
which to measure them. But, although it is possible to guess 
the length of a thing, a more satisfactory way is to measure it. 
In making such a measurement, a definite standard of length is 
used, represented, perhaps, by marks at a definite distance 
apart on a shop counter, or by lines marked upon a strip of 
wood or metal, or by a suitably divided ribbon of a material 
which is not liable to stretch. It is easy to understand that if a 
piece of string or ordinary tape of a yard in length were 
employed it could be stretched a little so as to be more than a 
yard long, and if it were wetted it would shrink to less than a 
yard long. It would, therefore, not be wise to use such a 
measure to determine the length of a thing. A yard, a foot, or 
an inch should be the same length always and everywhere, 
whether in a draper's shop or in a science laboratory. We 
know from common experience that, approximately, they are 
so. For the ordinary purposes of life, the tape measure and 
foot-rule are sufficiently accurate, but it is evident that in the 
course of time the manufacturers of such measures might make 
the lengths a little longer or shorter ; or, at any rate, one of 
them might do so, and then declare his measures were the only 
true ones, while the other manufacturers held that his lengths 
were wrong. To secure uniformity, and provide a permanent 
length with which others may be compared if necessary, a 
standard of length has to be agreed upon. 

British standard of length. What is known as the 

B 2 



4 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

Imperial standard yard is the British standard unit of length. 
The yard is defined as " the length, at 62 F., 1 marked on a 
bronze bar deposited with the Board of Trade," 

The temperature of the bar has to be stated, because metals 
expand when they are heated and contract when cooled, so that 
the bar is slightly longer when it is warmer than sixty-two 
degrees Fahrenheit, and shorter when it is colder. 

Several exact copies of this bar have been made and are 
kept securely in different places. There is consequently very 
little danger of all the bars being destroyed or lost at the same 
time. All yard measures should be the same length as the 
distance between the marks on the standard. The yard is 
divided into three equal parts, and each of these is called a 
foot. A foot is divided into twelve equal parts, and each part 
is called an inch. 

The metric standard of length. Lengths are not 
measured in yards, feet, and inches in all countries. In France, 
and many other countries, the standard length is what is called 
a metre. "The metre is the length, at the temperature of 
o C., of the iridio-platinum bar, numbered 16, deposited with 
the Board of Trade." The metre is longer than the yard. 
You know there are thirty-six inches in the yard, but the 
metre measures about thirty-nine and one-third inches, or 
three feet, three and one-third inches (3 feet 3^ inches). 
(This number is easily remembered because it only contains 
the figure 3.) 

Divisions of the metre. The metre is not divided in 
the same way as the yard. A much better plan is adopted. In 
the metric system all the measures are connected with one 
another by tens, or tenths. The metre is divided into ten equal 
parts called decimetres, each of which is divided into ten 
equal parts called centimetres, and these, in turn, are divided 
into ten equal parts called millimetres. 

For lengths greater than a metre the same simple plan is 
used. A length which contains exactly ten metres is called a 
dekametre ; one which just contains a hundred metres is 
called a hektometre ; and one which is exactly a thousand 
times as long as a metre is called a kilometre. 

All that it is necessary to do in order not to confuse these 

1 This temperature will be understood after studying Chapter IV. 



LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 



names with one another is to learn the meaning of the prefixes, 
namely : 

milli- signifies thousandth 

centi- hundredth 

deci- 

deka- 

hekto- 

kilo- 



tenth 

ten times (10) 

hundred times (100) 
thousand times ( 1000) 



You will find later on that the same prefixes are used in con- 
nection with metric measures of area, volume, capacity, and 
weight, and as they always signify the same multiples or fractions 
of the unit, the student who knows their meaning has the key to 
the whole metric system of weights and measures. The table 
of Long Measure in this system can now be understood : 

METRIC LONG MEASURE. 

The standard is 1 metre, which is equal in length to about 
ij^- English yards. 

nfrr metre is mzV/z-metre 

T foj ,, /z-metre or 10 millimetres 

^ ,, flforz-metre, or 10 centimetres, or 100 millimetres 

10 metres are 

100 
1000 ,, 



Fractions of units. From the foregoing description it 
has been seen that in the metric system of measurement there 
is a regular series of tens from the lowest to the highest 
measure. In the British system, there is no simple connection 
of this kind. A foot is one-third of a yard, an inch is one- 
twelfth of a foot, or the thirty-sixth part of a yard, a pole is five 
and a half yards, and so on. 

For smaller lengths than an inch we use such fractions as 
| inch, \ inch, \ inch, \ inch, and ^ inch. In the metric 
system all these troublesome numbers are avoided, and decimals 
are used instead of vulgar fractions. The units are separated 
from the parts of a unit by a dot ; tenths are represented by the 
first number to the right of the dot, hundredths by the second 
number to the right, thousandths by the third number, and so 
on. On this decimal system of notation, therefore, the number 
93?6'542 metres means nine thousand, three hundred and 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



seventy-six metres plus five-tenths of a metre, four-hundredths 
of a metre, and two-thousandths of a metre. And as all the 
multiples and fractions of the metre are connected with one 
another by tens, the same number can be expressed as 9 kilo- 
metres, 3 hektometres, 7 dekametres, 6 metres, 5 decimetres, 
4 centimetres, and 2 millimetres. 

MEASUREMENT OF AREA 



8. Square inches. Mark off lengths an inch apart from one corner 
along the bottom edge of a page of your exercise book or of a sheet of 
paper. Draw lines straight up the page from each of these marks perpen- 
dicular to the edge of the paper. From the same corner mark off lengths 
of inches on the side edge of your paper, and draw lines across the paper 
parallel to the bottom edge. You will thus divide the paper into square 
inches. Count how many square inches there are in 
one row, neglecting the parts of a square inch which 
may happen to be over at the end, and then count 
the number of rows. By multiplying these two 
numbers together, you will evidently obtain the 
total number of square inches. 

9. Length and width. Draw an oblong 4 inches 
in length, and 3 inches 
in width, or height, as it 
is called in geometry, 
and divide it into square 
inches as before. Notice 
that the number of 
square inches is equal 
to the length multiplied 
by the width. 

10. Rule for areas 
of oblongs. The pre- 
ceding exercises have 
shown you that, to find 
the area of a square or 
an oblong, it is only 
necessary to multiply 
the length of the bot- 
tom or base by the 
height. Use this know- 
ledge to find the num- 
ber of square centimetres in the oblongs drawn in Fig. 3. 

These two oblongs could be considered to represent two lengths of 
materials of different widths. 

Multiplication of decimals is performed in the same way as ordinary 
multiplication. When the sum has been done, count the number of 



Flo. - How many square centimetres are there 
in each of these rectangles ? 



LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 



figures to the right of the decimal point in the numbers multiplied 
together, and place a decimal point in the answer so that the same 
number of figures are to the right of it. 

11. Area of square in metric measure. Draw a square decimetre 
and divide it into square centimetres, as shown on a reduced scale 
in Fig. 4. Count the 

number of square centi- 
metres. 

Notice that you obtain 
the same result by count- 
ing the squares in one 
row and multiplying the 
result by the number of 
rows. 

12. Square inch and 
square centimetre. - 
Draw a square inch and 
divide it up into square 
centimetres as shown in 
Fig. 5. Notice that it takes 
about six and a quar- 
ter square centimetres 
to make one square inch. 

13. Square foot and 
square decimetre. - 
Draw a square foot upon 

a sheet of naner and FlG - 4- Number of square centimetres in one 

a St paper, a square decimetre. One-quarter actual area. 

divide it up into square 

decimetres. Notice that 

one square foot is a little larger in area than nine square decimetres. 

14. Applications of measurements of area. (a) Linoleum. Measure 
the length and width of a passage or hall, and find approximately 

the number of square yards of linoleum required 
to cover it. 

Linoleums as a rule are made 6 feet wide, 
and borders can be obtained in widths of 9 in., 
12 in., or 1 8 in. Measure the area of the floor 
of a square or an oblong room, and find how 
many yards length of linoleum of the width 
mentioned would be required to cover it, with 
or without a border. 

(b) Wall papers. English wall papers are 
sold in pieces 12 yards long and 21 inches 
wide ; or, expressed in feet, 36 feet long and 
if feet wide. Measure the distance around 
a room, including doors, windows, &c., and 
the height from skirting to cornice. Find 
how many pieces of paper would have to be ordered to paper 
the walls. The paper not used for doors, &c., may be regarded as 
waste. 



iO 




















9 




















8 




















7 




















6 




















5 




















4 




















3 




















2 




















1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 



j_ 
2 


J_ 
2 





1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


\_ 
2 



FIG. 5. Square inch divid- 
ed into square centimetres. 



8 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

EXAMPLE. Distance around the room, 60 feet ; height from skirting 
to cornice, 9 feet. 

Number of square feet, 60 x 9 = 540. 

Number of square feet in one piece of wall paper, 36 x 11 = 63. 

Therefore 

54 
Number of pieces required = -7 = 8 (about). 

As the pieces of paper are only sold whole, it would be necessary to 
order 9 of them to paper the room. 

(c) Carpets. Suppose a room in your house is to be carpeted. Find 
how many yards of a material you would require to use as a border or 
" surround," and supposing that this is 18 inches wide, what size carpet 
would be required to cover the remainder of the floor. 

Find how many yards of Brussels carpet, 27 inches wide, would be 
required to cover the floor of a room you can conveniently measure. 
You must, of course, remember that all the carpet you buy will be 
27 inches wide, so that possibly there may be a waste strip. 

Measurement of area. Cloth, or other dress material, is 
sold by the yard length, but every one knows that the actual 
amount of material obtained depends also upon the width. 
Silk and satin have usually a width of from 1 8 to 22 inches, and 
from 14 to 1 6 yards are required to make a plain costume. 
Velveteen is generally made slightly wider than silk or satin, 
so a shorter length about 10 or 12 yards is sufficient for a 
costume. Double width tweeds are from 54 to 56 inches wide, 
so only 4 or 5 yards length are required ; that is, less than one- 
third the length necessary when single-width silk is used. 

Many other familiar instances of a similar kind continually 
occur in connection with domestic affairs. If the floor of a 
room has to be carpeted, you know very well it would not be 
enough to measure the length of the room only, nor its width 
only, because both of these are measures of length. To know 
how much carpet is necessary, the amount of surface the floor 
has, or what is called its area must be found. To do this, both 
the length and width of the floor must be measured, and if the 
room is a square or an oblong one the area can be found by 
multiplying the two numbers together. If the length and width 
are measured in feet, then, by multiplying them together, the 
area of the floor in square feet is obtained ; if the measurement 
of the length and width are taken in inches, the area in square 
inches is obtained by multiplying the two numbers together. 

Whenever areas are measured in this country, square inches, 
square feet, square miles, or some other unit from square 



LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 



measure is employed. " Square measure " is obtained from " long 
measure" by multiplying. Thus, as there are 12 inches in a 
foot, there are 12 x 12 square inches in a square foot. This will 
be understood by examining Fig. 6. Each of the large squares 
bounded by thick lines represents a square foot, but it is of 
course smaller than a real square foot. 

British square measure. By referring to Fig. 6, which 
illustrates how a square yard may be divided into square feet 



FIG. 6. This represents a square yard on a small scale. Each small square 
represents a square inch, and the large squares bounded by thick lines 
represent square feet. 

and square inches, it is easy to see how square measure is 
obtained from long measure. This may be put in the form of a 
table, thus : 

144 ( = 12 x 12) square inches make i square foot. 
9(= 3 X 3) feet i yard. 

3i( = 5i x 5i) yards i pole. 

How many square inches are there in a square yard ? You can 
find out by counting the small squares in Fig. 6, or by counting 
the squares in one of the areas representing a foot and multiply- 
ing the number by nine. 



10 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 




Metric square measure. If instead of measuring in feet 
the length and breadth of a floor to be covered with carpet the 
measurements are made in metres or decimetres, 
it is evident that the area obtained by multi- 
plying the numbers together would not be in 
square feet, but in what are called square metres, 
or square decimetres. Square measure in the 
metric system is obtained from metric long 
measure in a similar way to that already described 
for British square measure. All we mean by the 
metric system is the plan of using metres, etc., 
instead of yards, etc., in measurements of all 
kinds. We can now write down the measures of 
area or surface in the metric system : 
100 ( = iox 10) sq. millimetres make I sq. centimetre. 
loo( = ioxio) ,, centimetres ,, I ,, decimetre, 
loo ( = 10x10) ,, decimetres ,, I ,, metre. 

A square decimetre is too large to be shown 
on this page. Fig. 7 shows a row of ten square 
c e n t i metres, 











but there are 
ten rows of 
this kind in a 
square deci- 
metre. One of 
the centime- 
tres is divided 
into square 
mill i metres. 
As i square 
centimetre 
contains 100 



SQUARE INCH 




SQUARE! 

CEWTIMCTHB 




FlG. 8. Comparative sizes of square 
id sc 



F Snt 7 imetre q s U a a nd square millimetres, 



inch and square centimetre. 



square decimetre or 100 



square miliime- S q uare centimetres contains 100 x loo square 

tres. Ten rows 

of ten square millimetres, that is, 10,000 square millimetres. 
m e ^ki me one The size of a sc l uare centimetre is compared 
deci- with the size of a square inch in Fig. 8. You 
will see that a square inch is much larger than 
a square centimetre. Each side of the square inch is 2*54 cen- 
timetres in length, so the number of square centimetres 



square 
metre. 



i LONG AND SQUARE MEASURE 11 

in a square inch is 2^54 x 2*54 = 6*45, o* nearly 6 square 
centimetres. 

The relation between a square foot and a square decimetre 
can be considered in a similar way. Thus, each side of a 
square foot is a little more than three decimetres long. The 
area of one square foot, expressed in decimetres, is therefore a 
little more than 3x3 = 9 square decimetres. The exact number 
of square decimetres in one square foot is 9*29, that is, about 9^. 

SUMMARY. 

Measurement of length. In estimating lengths, a standard, or unit, 
of length is necessary. 

The British standard of length is the Imperial standard yard. It 
may be defined as "the length, at 62 F., marked on a bronze bar 
deposited with the Board of Trade." 

The yard is divided into three equal parts, each called a foot. A foot 
is divided into twelve equal parts, each called an inch. 

The Metric standard of length is called a metre. In the metric 
system all measures are connected with one another by tens or tenths. 

The metre is divided into equal parts called decimetres, each of which 
is again divided into ten equal parts called centimetres, and these in 
turn are divided into ten equal parts called millimetres. 

A length which contains exactly 10 metres is called a dekametre, one 
which just contains 10 dekametres, or 100 metres, is called a hektometre, 
and one which is exactly 1000 times as long as a metre is called a 
kilometre. 

Measurement of area. To estimate area, or surface, it is necessary 
to measure in two directions, i.e., to find the length and breadth of the 
surface. 

By multiplying together the length and breadth of a square or an 
oblong we obtain its area. 

British square measure. Measures of area are called square 
measures. In British square measure, 144 square inches make one 
square foot ; 9 square feet make one square yard ; and 30^ square 
yards make one square pole. 

Metric square measure. 100 square millimetres make one square 
centimetre ; 100 square centimetres make one square decimetre ; and 
loo square decimetres make one square metre. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER I. 

1. What is meant by the Imperial standard yard? Name the parts 
into which it is divided. 

2. What is a metre? Compare its length with that of a yard. 

3. Explain how the metre is divided, and write down the names 
which are given to these parts. 

4. Which length is the greater, l inch, or i '3 inch ? 



12 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



5. A certain length was measured and found to be 25^ inches. 
Express this length in feet, inches, and decimals of an inch. 

6. A window 3 feet wide has to be fitted with a brass rod for curtains. 
What length cf rod would be required, supposing that | inch has to be 
allowed at each end of the rod so that it shall not be too tight ? 

7. Add | inch to each of the following lengths: 8& inches, 15^ 
inches, 13! inches, ii inches, 6 inches. 

8. What is the area of a piece of Tussore silk 9 yards long and 
22 inches wide ? 

9. Suppose a material sold in a width of 44 inches has to be backed 
with a material 22 inches wide. If 7 yards of the merino are required 
for a costume, how many yards of the lining material would have 
exactly the same area? 

10. What length of carpet border would be required to go round a 
room 12 feet wide and 12 feet long? If the border is 18 inches wide, 
what would be the length and width of the centre of the room not 
covered by it? 

11. What area of linoleum would be required to cover a passage 
5 feet wide and 1 8 feet long? Suppose the linoleum is 6 feet wide, 
what length would you order, assuming the pattern will fit any way ? 

12. French wall papers are made 8 metres long and 45 centimetres 
wide. Express these lengths approximately in English measure. 

13. How many pieces of wall paper 12 yards long and 21 inches 
wide would be required to paper a room 9 feet high from skirting to 
cornice, and 60 feet round ? Do not make any allowance for doors, 
windows, &c. 



CHAPTER II 
CUBIC AND FLUID MEASURE 

EXERCISES IN MEASUREMENT OF VOLUME 
AND CAPACITY 

15. Cubic inch. Obtain a thick piece of soap, and cut one end so that 
it is square with two sides, as indicated in Fig. 9. From one corner, 
where the end and these two faces meet, mark off the length of an inch 




FIG. 9. How to mark and cut out a cubic inch or cubic centimetre 
from a piece of soap. 

along the three edges. Scratch a line across the soap from each of the 
points thus obtained, and square with the edge. You will then have 
three square inches marked upon the soap. By cutting deep along 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



these lines a cube of soap having each of its edges an inch in length, 
and each of its faces a square inch in area, is obtained. This is a cubic 
inch. 

To test whether your cubic inch is true it could be compared with one 
of the wooden cubes sold for Kindergarten teaching. 

16. Cubic centimetre. Using soap, cheese, clay, or similar material as 
before, cut one end square with the faces, and then mark off a length 
of one centimetre along three edges meeting at one corner. Scratch 




FYG. 10. Construction of a box to hold i cubic decimetre, that is, i litre. 

lines from eacli of these points so as to mark three square centimetres 
upon the material used, and then cut along the lines to obtain one 
cubic centimetre, as in the previous exercise. Compare this cube with 
the cubic inch. If you have time and material, cut a rod of plastic 
substance sixteen centimetres long and one square centimetre at each 
end. Divide this into sixteen cubic centimetres, and then show that 
the cube made by pressing these together is of about the same size as 
a cubic inch. 

17. Standard capacity boxes. (a) Cut out of cardboard a figure of the 
shape shown in Fig. 10, and of the size indicated by the numbers. Cut 
the cardboard half-way through at the dotted lines, and then bend it to 
form a cubical box. Bind the edges together with glued tape, and 
varnish the box inside and out to make it watertight. The box will 
hold 1000 cubic centimetres of a liquid, and this amount is called a 
litre. 

(b) Make a similar box having sides one inch in length, so that it will 



CUBIC AND FLUID MEASURE 



hold one cubic inch. Also, if time permit, 
make a. box to hold one cubic centimetre. 

18. Fluid measure. Obtain a half-pint 
graduated glass measure, such as is used by 
photographers (Fig. u). Examine the divi- 
sions upon it : they represent fluid ounces, or 
parts of fluid ounces, in Apothecaries' Measure. 

19. Capacities of spoons. Fill a tea-spoon 
with water, and pour the water into the 
graduated measure. Repeat the operation eight 
times. The water will then be near the level 
of the I oz. mark. You will see from this 
that as eight tea-spoonfuls of liquid are equal 

to one fluid ounce, one 
tea-spoonful of liquid is 
equal to one-eighth of a 
fluid ounce, that is, one 





FIG. it. Measuring glas* 
graduated into fluid ounces. 



FIG. 12. Measuring 
glass graduated 
into drachms. 



drachm. Repeat the ex- 
ercise, using a dessert- 
spoon, and then a table-spoon, instead of the tea- 
spoon. You will find that a dessert-spoon holds 
about one-quarter of a fluid ounce, and a table- 
spoon about half an ounce 
of a liquid. 

20. Drops. Obtain a 
medicine dropper, or a 
short piece of narrow 
glass tubing contracted 
slightly at one end 
(Fig. 13). Suck water 
into it, and then let 
the water drip by drops 

into a tea-spoon. Count the number of drops 

required to fill the spoon. It will be found to 

be about sixty, showing that one drop of water 

is roughly equal to one minim. 

21. Imperial pint. Obtain an Imperial pint 
bottle. Find the number of fluid ounces it 
will hold. If possible, test with your glass 
measure whether one or two so-called pint or 
half-pint jugs, or tumblers, are really true 
measures. 

22. Pint and litre. Compare an Imperial 
pint bottle with a litre flask, such as Continental 
wines are frequently sold in. Using your 
measuring glass, show that the number of fluid 

ounces in one litre is about 35 ; so that one litre is equal to if 
pints. 

23. Graduated measuring jar. Obtain a jar graduated into cubic 
centimetres, like that in Fig. 19. Test the accuracy of your cubic 




FlG n _p; pctte O r 
medicine dropper. 



i6 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



decimetre box by pouring 1000 cubic centimetres of water, as measured 
by the graduated jar, into the box, and noticing whether the water just 
fills the box. 

Fill a measuring jar about half way up with water. Notice the 
level. Hold a cubic inch of wood in the water by means of a long pin 
(Fig. 14). Notice the rise of level. The difference between the two 
levels evidently represents the number of cubic centimetres equal to one 
cubic inch. 

24. Burette. Examine a burette (Fig. 19). Notice that the divisions 
are numbered from the top downwards. Fix the burette upright in a 

clamp, and about half fill it with 
water. Notice the level. Find the 
volume of a stick of slate pencil by 
gently lowering it into the water 
and noticing the rise of level pro- 
duced. (The pencil must, of course, 
be completely immersed in water. ) 

Cubic measure. The size 
of a solid, or the amount of room 
it takes up, or the space it occu- 
pies, is called its volume. 

The volume of a solid body 
is obtained by measuring in 
three directions. Just as to 
find the area of a surface it is 
necessary to measure length 
and breadth, so to measure the 
volume of a solid we must find, 
in addition to measurements of 
length and breadth, another 
distance called the thickness. 
If length, breadth, and thick- 
ness are multiplied together in 

the case of a regular solid, the result obtained represents the 
volume or cubical content. 

An examination of Fig. 15 will assist the student to under- 
stand this result. The single small cube at the extreme right 
may be considered to represent one cubic inch. Next to it is a 
row of twelve such cubes, and then a slab made up of twelve 
of these rows on top of one another. Finally, there is the 
large cube made up of twelve slabs placed face to face. The 
large cube, which represents a cubic foot, may thus be regarded 
as made up of 1 2 slices, each containing 1 2 rows of 1 2 cubic inches. 




Fie;. 14. A method of finding the num- 
ber of fluid ounces or cubic centimetres 
equal to one cubic inch. 



CUBIC AND FLUID MEASURE 



The total number of cubic 
inches in i cubic foot is 
therefore 12 x 12 x 12, that 
is, 1 728. Or, to put it another 
way, the length of each edge 
of the large cube is 12 inches, 
the area of each face is 
12 x 12 square inches, that 
is, 144 square inches, and 
the volume is equal to the area 

Of a face multiplied by the FlG . IS ._T O explain why there are I7 a8 cubic 
thickness, that IS. 144X12, inches in one cubic foot. 

or 1728 cubic inches. 

The number of cubic feet in a cubic yard can, in a similar 
way, be found to be equal to 3 x 3 x 3, that is, 27 (Fig. 16). 

British measures of capacity. The amount of fluid a 





FIG. 16. Relation of cubic foot to cubic yard. 

vessel will hold is known as the capacity of the vessel. Familiar 
British measures of capacity are the pint, quart, and gallon. 

4 gills = i pint. 
2 pints = i quart. 
4 quarts = i gallon, 

EXP. HY(i. r 



i8 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



This is known as the Wine and Spirit Measure, but with the 
exception of the gill the same measure is used for all liquids. 
The gill is also called a noggin or quartern. 

For measuring fluids for medicines, what is known as 
Apothecaries' Measure is used. 

i minim = I drop of thin liquid. 
60 minims = i drachm (about a tea-spoonful). 
8 drachms = i fluid ounce (4 dessert-spoonfuls or 2 table- 
spoonfuls). 
20 fluid ounces = i pint. 

The Imperial gallon has a volume equal to 277^ cubic 
inches. An Imperial pint is one-eighth of a gallon, and there- 
fore holds about 34! cubic inches. This is true for Wine 
and Spirit Measure, Beer Measure, or Apothecaries' Measure, 
but only in the last case is the pint divided into 20 fluid ounces, 
which are again divided into drachms and minims for the 
measurement of the small quantities required in making up 
physicians' prescriptions. A pint of milk should, of course, 
be the same amount as a pint of beer or any other liquid, but 
beers are often sold in bottles which are not intended to be 
pints, and are known merely as bottles of beer or reputed pints. 
If, however, a bottle is marked an Imperial pint, it should con- 
tain 20 fluid ounces of liquid. 

Screw-stoppered bottles usually hold Imperial pints, but 
Guinness's stout and Allsopp's or Bass's pale ale are sold in 
reputed pints and quarts as well as Imperial pints. 

Metric measures of volume. As all metric measures are 
connected with one another by tens, it is easy to deduce metric 
measures of volume from those of area or length. The small 
cube, A, at the left in Fig. 17, may be regarded as repre- 
senting i cubic centimetre ; 10 such cubic centimetres make the 
row, B, shown ; 10 rows of 10 cubic centimetres make the slice, C ; 
and 10 such slices make up a complete cube, D. The number 
of cubic centimetres in the large cube is therefore 10 slices of 10 
rows of 10 cubic centimetres, that is, 1000 cubic centimetres 
or i cubic decimetre. 

The subject can be looked at in another way. You know 
there are 10 centimetres in a decimetre, so you may say the 



CUBIC AND FLUID MEASURE 



edge of the decimetre cube is ID centimetres in length ; the 

area of one of its faces is 10 x 10= 100 square centimetres ; and 

its volume is 10x10x10= 100 x 10 = 1000 cubic centimetres. 

Sixty-one cubic inches are about equal to the volume of a 




FIG. 17. To show the relation between i cubic centimetre and i cubic decimetre. 

cubic decimetre ; and one cubic inch is equal roughly to 16^ 
cubic centimetres (Fig. 18). 

The litre. If a hollow cube is made i decimetre long, i 
decimetre broad, and i decimetre deep, it will hold 1000 cubic 




FIG. 18. Cubic inch and cubic centimetre in their true sizes. 



centimetres of liquid. This capacity is called a litre. All 
liquids are measured in litres in countries where the metric 
system is adopted. Thus, in France, wine, milk, and such 
liquids, are sold by litres and half-litres, instead of by quarts 

C 2 



20 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

and pints. A litre is equal to about one and three-quarters 
English pints. 

If a measuring glass, capable of holding I litre, has its capa- 
city divided into 1000 equal parts, then the capacity from one 
division to the next represents I cubic centimetre. Suppose 
such a glass is half rilled with liquid, and some small objects 
are dropped into it until the level of the liquid rises 200 divisions. 
Then without any calculation you know that the volume of the 
objects is 200 cubic centimetres. It is often convenient to deter- 
mine the volume of a thing in this way with a metric measuring 
glass. 

The fractions and multiples of a litre are named upon pre- 
cisely the same plan as those of the metre already described. 

METRIC MEASURES OF CAPACITY. 

The standard is 1 litre, which is equal to 1000 cubic 
centimetres, or about if English pints. 



litre is #7/z'-litre. 

T for ,, ,, centt-lhre. 

iV aforz-litre. 

10 litres are deka-\\\\z. 

loo ,, ,, hekto- litre. 

looo ,, &V0-litre. 

Graduated measuring vessels. It has been seen that 
the standard of capacity in the metric system of measurement 
is the litre. Since in scientific work the metric units of capacity 
are made use of in all countries, it is customary to employ 
measuring vessels, graduated metrically, of different shapes 
according to the purpose for which they are intended. Each of 
these vessels contains so many litres, or in the case of the 
smallest ones a certain fraction of a litre. 

The vessels have different names, according to their shapes. 
The illustration shows the commonest shapes in which measur- 
ing vessels are made. The meaning of each of the names flask, 
jar, burette, and pipette will be at once understood from Fig. 19. 

The way in which each of these things is used will be best 
learnt gradually by experience. In the different experiments, 
which the student will, it is to be hoped, perform for himself, 
the variously shaped vessels are often used. 



CUBIC AND FLUID MEASURE 



21 



Since a litre contains a thousand cubic centimetres, it is clear 
the flask in the illustration labelled 500 c.c. contains half a litre. 



BURETTE 




FIG. 19. Graduated measuring vessels. 



Similarly up to the 1000 c.c. mark in the graduated jar will be 
one litre. The burette holds over one-tenth of a litre, and 
so on. 

SUMMARY. 

Cubic measure. The volume of a solid is its size, or the amount oj 
room it takes up, or the space it occupies. 

Volume is obtained by multiplying together the length, breadth, and 
thickness of a rectangular solid, the measurements being at right angles 
to one another. 

British cubic measure. 1728 cubic inches make one cubic foot, 
and 27 cubic feet make one cubic yard. 

Metric cubic measure. loco cubic centimetres make one cubic deci- 
metre, looo cubic dechnetres make one cubic metre. 

The litre is the metric measure of capacity. It is the volume of 



22 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP, n 



liquid which a hollow cube of a decimetre edge will hold, and is equal 
to 1000 cubic centimetres. 

British measures of capacity. Familiar British measures of 
capacity are the pint, quart, and gallon. 4 gills make one pint , 2 
pints make one quart, and 4 quarts make one gallon. 

Apothecaries' measures of capacity. A drop of thin liquid has a 
capacity of about one minim, 60 minims make one drachm, 8 drachms 
make one fluid ounce, and 20 fluid ounces make one//;// 1 . 

Determination of volume of irregular solids. The volume of a 
solid of any shape can be measured by the amount of a liquid it will 
displace when plunged into it. If the solid is lighter than the liquid, 
it can be held beneath it by means of a hat pin. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER II. 

1. One pint is equal to 347 cubic inches, and I inch is equal to 
2 '54 centimetres. How many pints are there in 1000 cubic centi- 
metres? 

2. How would you determine the volume of a pebble in cubic 
centimetres ? 

3. How many litres are there in a gallon of water ? 

4. How many glasses of wine, each holding pint, could you obtain 
from a litre bottle of wine ? 

5. Which is the greater, a quarter of a litre or half a pint ? 

6. Describe how you would cut out a cubic inch of soap. How 
could you demonstrate that it takes about 16 cubic centimetres to make 
I cubic inch ? 

7. If you had a British measuring glass and wished to test whether 
a bottle held an Imperial pint or not, how would you proceed ? 



CHAPTER III 

WEIGHT AND DENSITY 

WEIGHTS AND WEIGHING 

25. The balance. (a) Uncover the balance and identify the different 
parts by reference to Fig. 20. Raise the beam, AB, of the balance, off 
the supports by turning the handle, C. Notice whether the pointer, F, 
swings equally on both sides of the middle of the scale, G : if it does, the 
balance is ready for use ; but if not, let down the beam and turn the 




FIG. 20. A Students' Balance. 



small screw at B, then try again. Repeat this adjustment until the 
swings to right and left are equal. 

26. The method of weighing. Put some shot in a watch-glass, and 
place it in the left-hand pan, E, of the balance. Examine your box of 
weights, and, selecting a weight which you estimate to be about the 
same as the shot, take hold of it with the forceps and place it in the 
right-hand pan (the weights should always be placed in this pan). 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



Now slightly raise the beam to see whether the estimated weight is 
nearly equal to the weight of the shot. If the weight appears a little 
below what is wanted, pick up, with the forceps, the next heaviest 
weight in the box, and try it in the pan with the other. If the two 
together are too heavy, take out the smaller weight and put in the one 
below it, and so on, adding one weight after the other, without missing 
any, until you find the correct weight. When you have completed the 
weighing, write down and add up the weights that are missing from 
their places, and check the figures as you put each weight back in its 
place. 

27. Drains and ounces. Place an ounce weight in one pan of a 
balance, and cut off a piece of metal wire weighing a little more than 
i ounce. Reduce the length of the wire gradually by cutting, until it 

weighs exactly I ounce ; 
then cut the wire into 16 
equal pieces. Each of the 
pieces will weigh I dram. 
28. Fluid ounce and 
an ounce weight. Place 
a measuring glass in one 
pan of a pair of scales, 
and balance it with lead 
or nails put into the other 



pan. Pour a fluid ounce 
of cold water into the 
measuring glass. Notice 
that an ounce weight will 
exactly balance it. A 
fluid ounce of water is 
thus shown to weigh an 
ounce. 

29. Metric weights. 
Examine a box of metric 




FIG. 21. Box of metric weights. 



weights. The numbers upon the weights represent grams and frac- 
tions of grams. Write a list of all the weights having numbers upon 
them. 

30. Grams and ounces. Place a weight of 100 grams in one pan of 
a balance, and show that it can be balanced by 3^ ounces in the other 
pan. 

31. Kilogram and pound. Put a kilogram ( 1000 grams) in one pan of 
a strong balance, and show that it can be balanced by a little less than 
2 pounds 3^ ounces. 

32. Exercises in weighing. Find the weight in ounces and parts of 
an ounce of each of the following : a table-spoonful of flour, and a table- 
spoonful of best brown sugar. To do this, first find the weight of a 
watch-glass, or other suitable vessel to hold the powder, then transfer 
the powder to be weighed from the spoon to the watch-glass. Find 
the weight of both together, and after subtracting the weight of the 
watch-glass, the weight of the powder will be obtained. 

In a similar manner find the weight, in succession, of a teacupful of 



in WEIGHT AND DENSITY 25 

flour, ground coffee, powdered loaf sugar. First find the weight of the 
empty cup, and then when it is full of one of the substances. When 
the weight of the cup has been subtracted from the total weight, the 
remainder will give the weight of the flour, coffee, &c. 

The need for weighing. It is very often necessary in 
the household, sometimes in the kitchen, sometimes in the sick 
room, and on other occasions, to be able to measure the amount 
of different materials to be employed for various purposes. In 
the kitchen, for instance, this fact is recognised, and the cook 
has a number of rough rules she employs. But these are apt to 
lead to error because of the uncertainty about the standards 
adopted. For instance, one rule of the kitchen says that a lump 
of soft butter the size of an egg weighs an ounce. But it is 
not difficult to understand that butter varies very much in 
softness, and eggs vary much in size. So that sometimes one 
amount of butter will be used and sometimes another. It is not 
very surprising that the results of different operations vary con- 
siderably when such rough-and-ready rules are in use. Another 
kitchen rule is, that a level table-spoonful of flour weighs half-an- 
ounce. But it depends upon how much pressing the cook does 
as to how much flour she can get into the table-spoon. All such 
inaccuracy is avoided when everything is weighed. An ounce 
of butter is a certain definite amount that can always be 
repeated. A pound of sugar means a certain amount that is 
unaffected by the size of any variable thing. To be sure of 
good results then, the cook should make a habit of weighing 
everything. 

The principle of the balance. A simple form of balance, 
or pair of scales, is represented in Fig. 22. The beam, AB, is 
supported at the centre, C , and if the balance is true, the scale 
pans have no tendency to dip either on one side or the other. 
When, as in this case, the pans are suspended from points at 
equal distances from the pivot, any weight in one pan is balanced 
by an equal weight in the other. In the case of every balance, 
if the beam swings evenly on both sides of the pivot, the follow- 
ing principle of equality holds good : 

Weight on x Distance _ Weight on Distance 
one side from pivot ~~ other side from pivot. 



EXPERIMENTAL IIVGI1M 



CHAP. 



This kind of balance is good enough for ordinary purposes, but 
when exact weighings are wanted, a better form, such as that 
shown in Fig. 20, is used. All the parts in this balance are very 
carefully made, and the greatest possible pains are taken to have 
very delicate supports and accurate adjustments. A brass beam 
is supported at its middle line on a knife edge of hard steel, 
which, when the balance is in use, rests on a true surface of 
similar steel. The hooks to which the pans are attached are 
likewise provided with V-shaped grooves of hard steel (Fig. 20), 
which, when the balance is in use, rests upon knife edges on the 
upper parts of the beam. To the middle of the beam is attached 





FIG. 22. A simple balance. 

a pointer, the end of which moves in front of an ivory scale, 
fixed at the bottom of the upright which carries the beam. 
When not in use, the beam and hooks are lifted off the knife 
edges by turning a handle. 

Measurement of weight. Just as in measuring lengths 
we found it was necessary to have a standard with which to com- 
pare them, so in measuring weight we must also have a standard 
or unit. Then we can say how many times the weight of a 
given body is greater or smaller than our unit. In this country 
the standard of weight is that " of a piece of platinum weighed 
in vacuo at the temperature of o C., which is deposited 
with the Board of Trade." This lump of platinum is called 
the Imperial standard pound avoirdupois. The divisions, 
etc., of the Imperial pound you have already learnt at school 
under the name of " avoirdupois weight." 



WEIGHT AND DENSITY 



A weight of i Ib. avoirdupois is kept at a Standards Office in 
every city, so as to test the Ib. weights used by tradesmen, and 
see whether they really weigh i Ib. or are too light. 

Avoirdupois Weight. 

1 6 drams make i ounce (437^ grains). 
1 6 ounces i pound (7000 grains). 

14 pounds i stone. 

28 pounds i quarter. 

4 quarters ., i hundredweight. 

20 hundredweights i ton. 

The kilogram and gram. The standard of weight which 
is adopted in France, and in other countries where they use the 
metric system, is called the kilogram. The kilogram is bigger 
than the British pound ; indeed it is equal to about two and 
one-fifth of these pounds. It is interesting to know how the 
weight of a kilogram is obtained. It is agreed to give the name 
gram to the weight of water which a little vessel holding one 
cubic centimetre contains. (To be exact, the temperature of 
the water must be 4 C., but this need not concern the student 
now.) The kilogram has the same weight as one thousand cubic 
centimetres of water, that is, as a litre of water. The names 
used for the divisions, etc., of the gram are obtained in the same 
way as in the case of the metre, thus : 

Metric Measurement of Weight. 

10 milligrams = I centigram. 10 grams = i dekagram. 

10 centigrams = i decigram. 10 dekagrams =i hektogram. 

10 decigrams = i gram. 10 hektograms= i kilogram. 

How to remember metric measures. As the metric 
measures of length, volume, and weight have all now been 
described, it may be helpful to bring them together to show how 
the fractions and multiples of the units have the same prefixes, 
namely, milli, centi, deci, deka, hekto, kilo. 

By putting these words in front of the words metre, litre, and 



2S 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



gram, the metric measures of length, volume, and weight are 
obtained, as shown in the following table : 





Length. 


Volume. 


Weight. 


TTJW 


Milli-metre 


Milli-litre 


Milli-gram 


T*TF 


Centi-metre 


Centi-litre 


Centi-gram 


TV 


Deci-metre 


Deci-litre 


Deci-gram 


I 


Metre 


Litre 


Gram 


10 


Deka-metre 


Deka-litre 


Deka-gram 


IOO 


Hekto-metre 


Hekto-litre 


Hekto-gram 


1000 


Kilo-metre 


Kilo-litre 


Kilo-gram 



You see from this that what you have learnt to call the metric 
system of weights and measures is much simpler than ours, and 
the pupils in countries where it is used have not to learn so 
many different tables as they have in England when they begin 
" weights and measures " sums. 

Relation of British and metric weights. 1 It is a great 
pity that the simple metric system of weights and measures is 
not in use in this country. Fortunately, more people each year 
learn the advantages of the metric system, and, perhaps, some 
time in the future, the clumsy avoirdupois weights and the 
complicated measures of length in use in our country will give 
place to the simple, easy measures in use on the Continent. 
Until this happens it is worth while to point out some of the 
ways in which the two systems are related. To begin with 
measures of weight. The English grain is the same in every 
one of our measures of weight. In the apothecaries' ounce 
there are 480 of these grains, and in the ounce avoirdupois, 
there are 437^ of them. The grain is equal to about 0-65 of 
the decigram ; or, it may be said, the gram contains 15*43 
grains. The ounce avoirdupois contains 28-35 grams. 

1 Since the word weight is always used in everyday language whether 
what is properly called " mass " is meant or not, no attempt has in this 
book been made to distinguish between "mass" and "weight." If 
the pupil proceeds later to a formal study of physics, he will have little 
difficulty in distinguishing between the terms. At this stage the dis- 
tinction is troublesome and unnecessary. 



in WEIGHT AND DENSITY 29 

Science is based upon measurement. It cannot be 
too soon learnt that science is merely organised common sense. 
There is a scientific, or right way, and a wrong method of doing 
everything. The scientific person never trusts to luck and 
never guesses. The scientific cook, that is the cook who under- 
stands her business, when making porridge, for example, does 
not guess how much oatmeal and how much water are necessary. 
She weighs the oatmeal and measures the water. In making a 
cake she carefully weighs each of the ingredients, using exactly 
the amount she has found, or others have found, by experience, 
to be necessary to produce a cake of a certain kind. Similarly, 
such a cook weighs a joint before roasting it, and again after it 
is cooked, so that she may know just what weight disappears 
in the process. This desire for accuracy is not " stinginess " nor 
is it "faddishness " ; it is just common sense applied to prevent 
any anxiety as to results. "There is," says the wise cook, "a 
cause for every effect ; if I arrange the causes correctly, I need 
have no fear as to the effects." 

DENSITY. 

33. Meaning of density. Cut a cubic centimetre out of soap, cheese, 
clay, and cork, in the manner described on p. 14. Weigh each of 
the cubes in succession, and record their weights in a column as follows : 

Weight of cubic centimetre of soap, grams. 

,, ,, ,, cheese, grams. 

,, ,, ,, clay, grams. 

,, ,, ,, cork, grams. 

Notice that the weight of a cubic centimetre differs, thus proving that 
the weight of the same volume of these different substances is not the 
same. 

34. Liquids have different densities. Scratch a mark on the neck of 
a small medicine bottle, or stick a piece of gummed paper round the 
outside of the neck. Weigh the empty bottle when it is clean and dry 
inside and outside. Now fill the bottle up to the mark with water, and 
weigh the bottle full of water. Subtract the weight of the bottle, and 
so obtain the weight of water which fills the bottle up to the mark. In 
a similar manner find the weight of vinegar, milk, paraffin oil, and other 
liquids, which fill the bottle up to the mark. Of course the weight of 
the bottle must be subtracted in each case. Record your results, thus : 

Weight of water which fills bottle up to mark, grams. 

,, vinegar ,, ,, ,, grams. 

milk ,, ,, grams. 

paraffin oil ,, grams 



30 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

Notice that the amounts of different liquids which fill the bottle up to 
the mark, that is, the same volumes of different liquids, have not the 
same weight. 

35. The weight of a cubic centimetre of water. Place a small beaker 
(a small wide-mouthed bottle made of thin glass will do) in the left-hand 
pan of a balance, and counterpoise it with some nails placed in the other 
pan. Using the burette in the manner described on p. 21, run from 
it into the beaker 10 c.c. of distilled water. Find what weight in 
grams must be added to the right-hand pan to counterpoise the beaker 
again. Similarly, running in 10 c.c. at a time, find the weight of 20, 
30, 40 c.c. of water. Determine the weight of a cubic centimetre of 
water by dividing the weights found by 10, 20, 30, etc. 

It will be found that the weight of a cubic centimetre of distilled 
water is very nearly one gram. It would be exactly a gram if the 
temperature of the water were 4 C. 

What is meant by density. If different solids of the 
same size or volume are obtained, as every one knows, they may 
have different weights. If the weight of a cubic centimetre of 
cork, cheese, soap, clay, is determined, one after the other, with 
the help of a balance, the clay will be found to be heaviest, the 
soap will come next, and then will follow the cheese and cork 
in order. Or, equal volumes of these different solids have 
different weights. 

By filling a bottle up to a mark with different liquids in suc- 
cession, it can be shown that equal volumes of the liquids used 
have not the same weight. 

Equal weights of iron and water have very different sizes. 
While a pint of water weighs a pound and a quarter, you know 
very well that iron weights of a pound and a quarter-pound 
have not together a volume of anything like a pint. 

Two facts are taught by experiments of this kind ; they are : 

1. Equal volumes of different materials may have different 
weights. 

2. Equal weights of different substances may have different 
volumes. 

It is more common to say, however, that materials have 
different densities. To make this quite clear, consider the 
familiar example of a pound of feathers and a pound of lead. 
They have the same weights, but the size, or volume, of the 
feathers is very much greater than that of the lead. The 
material in the lead must be packed more closely than in the 
feathers, which accounts for the lead taking up less room. A 



Ill 



WEIGHT AND DENSITY 



short way of expressing all this is to state that the lead is denser 
than the feathers. 

If the weight of a very small thing is great, it is said to be 
very dense, or to have a high density. But if an object of 
large size has a small weight its density is low. Lead has a 
high density ; feathers have a low density. 

The comparison of densities. It is easy to compare 
the densities of lumps of material of exactly the same size or 
volume. Since the volumes are the same, the object with the 
greatest weight must be the densest, and that with the smallest 
weight the least dense. 

The following table shows the weight of i cubic centimetre 
and i cubic foot of a few common solid substances : 



Substance. 


Weight of i cub. cm. 


Weight of i cub. ft. 


Beeswax .... 


0^96 gram 


60 Ibs. 


Brass 


8'2 


CH 


Butter . . . 


0-86 


53 


Resin . . . . 


1-07 


67 


Starch. . 


i'53 


95 


Sugar 


1-61 


100 


Tallow .... 


0*91 


57 



Standard of density. But to compare densities it is 
better to have a standard ; just as we have a standard of length, 
the yard, with which to compare other lengths, or a standard 
of size with which to compare other sizes. The density of 
water at a certain fixed temperature is taken as the standard. 
(This temperature is called four degrees Centigrade, and written 
4 C., which you will understand after you have studied the 
thermometer.) 

The weight of one cubic centimetre of water at 4 C. is one 
gram, and its density is taken as the standard of density, and is 
called i. Similarly, a substance, of which a cubic centimetre 
weighs two grams, is said to have a density of 2, and such a 
substance may be considered to contain twice as much matter 
as water does, packed into one cubic centimetre. 



32 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



DENSITY OF LIQUIDS. 

36. Determination of volume of bottle by the weight of water it 
holds. Procure a small bottle, or medicine phial, with a glass stopper 
having a groove, made by means of a file, along the part which fits 
into the bottle (Fig. 23). 

A groove of this kind permits liquid to escape when the stopper is 
put into the neck of a bottle full of liquid. Clean and thoroughly dry 
the bottle and stopper, and determine their weight in grams. Fill with 
distilled water. Weigh again. Subtract the weight of the bottle. The 
remainder gives the weight in grams of the water in the bottle when it 
is full. Since, as you have learnt, a cubic centimetre of distilled water 
weighs one gram, you now know the number of 
cubic centimetres the bottle will hold. 

37. How to find the density of liquids. Using 
the bottle employed in the last experiment, find in 
succession what weights of methylated spirit, 
vinegar, salt water, beer, and milk it will hold. 
Record your results. You know from the last ex- 
periment how many cubic centimetres the bottle 
holds, and you can easily calculate the weight of 
one cubic centimetre of each of the liquids used, 
and these numbers give the density of the liquids. 
Convince yourself that the same results are 
obtained by dividing the weight of liquid which 
fills the bottle by the weight of water the bottle 

gnve~in 0t stopper, 3 8. Weights of fluid ounces of different liquids. 

for density expert- Counterpoise a measuring glass graduated in fluid 

mems. ounces. Put one fluid ounce of water into the 

glass. Notice that it weighs one ounce. Pour 

out the water, and put into the glass one fluid ounce of methylated spirit, 

turpentine, or mercury. Notice that the one ounce weight no longer 

balances the fluid ounce of liquid. Only in the case of water does one 

fluid ounce weigh one ounce. With other liquids one fluid ounce weighs 

more or less than one ounce. 

How the density of' a liquid is measured. The 
determination of the density of a liquid is very easy when water 
is taken as a standard. All it is necessary to do to know the 
density of any liquid is to ascertain the weight of a cubic centi- 
metre of it. Since the weight of a cubic centimetre of water is 
one gram, 1 the first weighing shows how many times heavier 

1 At this stage it is assumed that the substance is at 4 C. , but this 
has not been insisted on too much lest the reader should get confused. 
As a matter of fact, the densities of liquids are generally determined, in 
actual practice, at 1 5 C. 




in WEIGHT AND DENSITY 33 

or lighter the liquid is than the standard, water ; and this is the 
density of the liquid. 

Density can now be regarded in two ways. It can be con- 
sidered as 

(1) The number of times a substance is heavier or lighter 

than water, or, as 

(2) The weight of a cubic centimetre of the substance. 

What is true of one cubic centimetre of each of the sub- 
stances under consideration, namely, the standard water and 
the substance the density of which is required, will also be 
true of two cubic centimetres, or any other number of cubic 
centimetres. So long as the sizes or volumes remain the 
same, then, we can compare the densities in just the same 
way, for the number of times the substance is heavier or 
lighter than water can be determined at once by a simple divi- 
sion sum. But it is not necessary to measure the volume in 
cubic centimetres. Cubic inches or cubic feet would do just 
as well. The essential condition for the comparison is that 
their volumes are the same. 

Experimental determination of density of liquids. 
Since it is only necessary to be quite sure that the volumes of 
the water and the other substance are exactly the same in order 
to compare their densities at once, it is a very easy matter to 
find the density of a liquid. All that has to be done is to find 
the weight of liquid which will fill a certain bottle, and compare 
it with the weight of water which fills the same bottle. A con- 
venient way to do this is to use a bottle like the one shown in 
Fig. 23, having a stopper with a groove cut on it, or a hole bored 
through it. When such a bottle is filled with a liquid, and the 
stopper is put in, some of the liquid passes up through the 
groove to make room for the stopper. A bottle of this kind may 
be named a density bottle. 

Suppose the weight of water in a density bottle was found to 
be 50 grams, and the weight of the same volume of methylated 
spirit was found to be 40 grams. Then these numbers show the 
relative densities of the two liquids, and as we take the density of 
water as the standard or unit, the density of the spirit is equal 
to 40 divided by 50. It is thus seen that the density of spirit is 
EXP. HYG. D 



34 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



represented by the fraction or |, which written as a decimal 
fraction is 0*8. 

The density of many liquids is greater than that of water. 
Thus, milk has a density represented by the number rc3, or 
'iBff? so * na t e( l ua l volumes of water and milk would have 
weights in the proportion of 100 to 103. In all cases we can say 

. weight of substance 

Relative density of substance , 7^- 

weight of equal volume of water. 

The relative density of a substance is often spoken of as its 
specific gravity. 

Densities of some common liquids. Liquids vary very 
much in density. Among common liquids used in the house 
some are heavier and some lighter than water. Equal volumes 
of quicksilver, chloroform, glycerine, blood, milk, and sea-water 
are heavier than the same volume of pure water, while any 
quantity of claret, olive oil, turpentine, or petroleum, is lighter 
than the same volume of water. 

PRINCIPLE OF HYDROMETRY 

39. Some things sink, others float in water. Put some water into 
a wide-mouthed vessel such as a fish-globe, and carefully place lumps of 
different things, e.g., pieces of lead, iron, oak, pine, and cork, one after 
another, into the water. Observe that (i) some sink and others float, 

(2) of those which float some 
sink further into the water 
than others. 

40. Volume of water dis- 
placed by solids which float 
(a) Obtain a rectangular 
rod of wood, I square cm. in 
section and about 15 cm. 
long, with lines around it 
i cm apart. Gouge a small 
piece of the wood out of one 




FIG. 24. When substances are denser than 
water they sink in water ; and if less dense, 
they float. 



end, and put lead into the 
hole ; flatten the end by fill- 
ing the hole with wax. 

I'm sonic water in a metric 

graduated jar and notice its level. Find the weight of the rectangular 
rod, and then place it in the jar with the loaded end downwards. 
Notice how many cubic centimetres of the rod are immersed, and also 
how many cubic centimetres of water are displaced (Fig. 25). Since 
the weight of i cub. cm. of water is I gram, the number of cubic centi- 
metres of water displaced is also the weight in grams of the water dis- 
placed. This weight will be found equal to the weight of the whole rod. 



Ill 



WEIGHT AND DENSITY 




41. The principle of the hydrometer. (a) Fill the graduated glass 
jar with water up to a certain mark. Notice the level of the water. 

Draw lines at equal distances apart across a narrow strip of paper and 
fix the paper inside a .test-tube, as in Fig. 26. 
Float the test-tube in water in the graduated jar 
and put shot into it until a certain mark upon the 
strip of paper inside it is on a level with the sur- 
face of the water. Notice the number of cubic 
centimetres of water displaced when the test-tube 
is thus immersed. 

Then take out the test-tube, dry it, and deter- 
mine its weight together with the shot it contains. 
The total weight of the test-tube and contents 
will be found equal to the weight shown by the 
number of cubic centimetres of water displaced. 
Repeat the experiment with the test-tube immersed 
to a different mark. 

(If) Float the test-tube and shot in spirits of wine 

and milk in succession. Notice that in the former case it sinks deeper 
than the mark, while in the other not so deep. 

42. Use of hydrometer. Place the loaded test-tube or a hydrometer 
(i) in milk, (2) in water, (3) in a mixture of milk and water. Observe 
the depth to which it sinks in each case (Fig. 27). 

43. Density of brine. Make a solution of common, salt in water ; dis- 

solve salt in the water until 
a new-laid egg will remain 
in the position in which 
it is placed in the solution. 
Determine the density of 
the salt solution by the 
density bottle. The density 
of the new-laid egg has the 
same value. 



FIG. 25. Water dis- 
placed by floating 
rod. 




Water displaced 
by solids which 
float. A solid which 
sinks in water or any 
liquid displaces a volume 
of liquid equal to its own 
volume. When a solid 
floats, the case is slightly 
different. Part of the 
solid is in water and part 

out of the water, and, of course, only the part immersed is pushing 
the water aside in order to make room for itself. In the case of 

D 2 



FlG. 26. Loaded test-tube t 

of hydrometer. 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



a floating object, therefore, thevohtme of liquid displaced is equal 
to the volume of the part of the solid below the surface. 

The depth at which an object floats in water. 
When any object is floating in water, a certain volume of it is 
under water and a certain volume is above the surface. The 
depth at which it floats depends upon its density. A rod of 
heavy wood sinks deeper in water than a rod of light wood of 
the same size. The water displaced by the heavy wood has 
therefore a greater volume, and consequently 
a greater weight, than that displaced by the 
light wood. But there is one important fact 
which applies to both cases : it is that tJic 
weight of the water displaced by the immersed 
Part of a floating object is equal to the whole 
weight of the object. 

Since an object which floats in water takes 
a position such that the weight of the water 
displaced by the immersed part of it is 
equal to the weight of the object itself, we 
have a ready way of deciding whether an 
object will sink further in another liquid or 
not so far. If the liquid into which it is put 
is less dense than water, like spirits of wine, 
it is clear that to make up a given weight 
we shall want a greater volume of the liquid. 
Consequently, to displace a weight equal to 
the weight of the floating body, the object will have to sink 
further into the spirit than into the water. If, on the other 
hand, the object is placed in a liquid such as glycerine, which is 
denser than water, it will not sink so far, because it will not take 
so great a volume of this denser liquid to have a weight equal 
to that of the floating body. 

All instruments which depend upon these facts, and are used 
for measuring the densities of liquids, are called hydrometers. 

A familiar instance of hydrometry. In making brine 
for the purpose of pickling meat, a cook often makes use of 
some of these facts about floating bodies. She knows that a 
new-laid egg generally has the same density. Though she 
would not use the same words, she knows that when brine has 
the same density as a new-laid egg it is of the right strength for 




Ill 



WEIGHT AND DENSITY 



/r\ 



pickling purposes. She goes on adding salt to the water, when 
she is preparing the brine, until an egg, which she knows to be 
a new-laid one, will just float in the solution of salt. When this 
happens, the brine and the egg have the same density, and the 
Amount of salt in the solution is what the cook knows by 
jxperience will affect the meat in the way she wants. 
But it would be better for her to use a hydrometer 
of some kind, because she cannot be sure that new- 
laid eggs always have the same density, and it is 
not very easy to decide when an egg just floats. 

Principle of the lactometer. By floating 
a loaded test-tube in liquids of different densities, 
as in Expt. 41, several results of great prac- 
tical importance are obtained. It has been seen 
that if a mark is made indicating the level at which 
such a loaded test-tube floats in water, the tube 
will, if placed in spirits of wine, sink deeper than 
the mark ; while if placed in milk, the test-tube 
comes to rest with the water mark above the level 
of the liquid. It can be decided from these facts 
that the spirits of wine has a density less than that 
of water, while the milk is denser than water. The 
construction of a simple instrument, called the 
lactometer, is based upon these conclusions. It is 
a form of hydrometer employed for measuring the 
density of milk. When placed in pure milk a lac- 
tometer should float with the mark P (Fig. 28) on 
a level with the surface of the liquid. In a mixture 
of milk and water the lactometer floats with some 
other division level with the surface of the liquid. 
Thus, in milk 10 per cent, below the average den- 
sity, the 10 above the P mark is level with the 
surface. 

An experienced observer is, therefore, able from 
the readings of a lactometer to tell whether a sample of milk 
has a correct density, that is, whether it is heavier or lighter than 
it should be. At the same time it must be clearly understood 
that it is not possible to decide at once from the reading of a 
lactometer whether a sample of milk has been adulterated or 
not. There are other considerations to be taken into account. 




FIG. 28. A 
hydr o m e t e r 
for determin- 
ing if the den- 
sity of milk is 
correct. It is 
called a lacto- 
meter. 



38 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



The purity of milk. Milk may be regarded as a solution 
in water of certain chemical compounds in which globules of 
fat are disseminated. The substances in solution include sugar, 
mineral salts, and a compound of which the student will learn 
more later, called casein. The presence of more and more of 
these materials in solution increases the density of the milk. 
Consequently, if the amount of them present in the milk is 
increased, the density of the milk is also increased. On the other 
hand, the density of the fat of milk is less than that of water, with 
the result that an increase of it in the milk causes the density 
of the milk to diminish. In estimating the purity of a sample of 
milk, both these disturbing causes must be taken into account. 

If the density of milk is found by a lactometer to be less than 
it ought to be, it does not follow that water has been added. 
Some milk is unusually rich in cream, and, containing a high 
percentage of fat as it does, the milk has a density below the 
normal value, even though it is especially good. Similarly, a 
sample of watered milk, to which some sugar or salt has been 
added, may have the density of ordinary pure milk. In such a 
case the lactometer would tell us nothing about the malpractices 
of the dairyman. So that, though in the hands of an analyst a 
lactometer may give useful information, it would be unwise and 
unjust to condemn a milkman on the strength of its readings 
alone. 

A good idea as to the richness of milk can be obtained by 
allowing it to stand in a graduated cylinder until the cream has 
collected on the top ; the proportion of cream is a good index 
of the value of the milk. 

SUMMARY. 

Principle of the balance. When the pans are at equal distances 
from the pivot, the beam is horizontal when the weights are equal. 

When unequal weights are at different distances from the pivot, there 
is equilibrium only when 

weight on distance from _ weight on distance from 
one side ' pivot ~ other side pivot. 

Standards of weight. The British standard of weight is the 
Imperial standard pound avoirdupois. The pound is divided into 16 
equal parts, each called an ounce ; the ounce is divided into 16 equal 
parts, each called a dram. A qtiarttr is equal to 28 pounds. There 
are four quarters in a Imndredweight ', and 20 hundredweights in a 
ton. 



in WEIGHT AND DENSITY 39 

The metric standard of weight is the kilogram (icoo grams). 

The weight of a cubic centimetre of pure water at 4 C. is one gram. 

Density. Equal volumes of different materials may have different 
weights. Equal weights of different substances may have different 
volumes. Or, substances differ in density. 

The relative density or specific gravity of a substance is equal to the 
weight of any volume of the substance divided by the weight of an equal 
volume of water. 

Floating bodies. When an object floats in a liquid, the volume 
of liquid displaced is equal to the volume of the immersed portion of 
the object. 

The weight of the liquid displaced by a floating object is equal to the 
whole weight of the object. 

The hydrometer. The hydrometer is a practical application of the 
principle of floating bodies. It consists of a suitably loaded tube 
which is graduated in such a manner that the level at which it floats 
enables one to tell the density of the liquid in which it floats. 

The lactometer is a special form of hydrometer used in testing milk. 
In using it, however, certain other facts, as well as the density, have to 
be taken into account before pronouncing upon the purity or otherwise 
of the milk. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER III. 

1. Write down the names of the weights which are respectively 
one-tenth, one-hundredth, and one-thousandth of a gram. Also give 
the names of the weights ten times as heavy as a gram, one hundred 
times, and one thousand times as heavy. 

2. What do you understand by the density of a substance ? How 
would you find the density of olive oil? 

3. What is a density-bottle ? Explain clearly how you would use it 
to find the density of sea-water. 

4. You are provided with a measuring glass graduated into fluid 
ounces, a balance, and a set of weights. What observations would you 
make to find the density of a sample of beer ? 

5. Arrange the following liquids in order, placing the densest at the 
top : claret, glycerine, sea-waler, and milk. 

6. What is the volume of water displaced by an object which floats 
in it ? Describe an experiment you would perform to prove your 
statement. 

7. Will a lead pencil sink further into spirits of wine or into water 
when floated in these liquids? Give reasons for your answer. 

8. A new-laid egg sinks when placed into water, but floats if placed 
in a strong solution of salt. Why is this? 

Does a man float more or less easily in the sea or in a river? 

9. What is a hydrometer? How could you find out with a 
hydrometer which of two vessels contained water and spirits of wine 
respectively ? 

10. Draw a lactometer. What precautions have to be taken in 
testing samples of milk with a lactometer ? 



CHAPTER IV 
THERMOMETERS 

CHANGE OF SIZE 

44. Expansion of a metal bar. Place one end of a poker or other 
bar of metal against a heavy weight, and let the other rest on a needle, 
as in Fig. 29. Fix a straw upon the needle so that it hangs vertically. 
Heat the poker with a flame. The straw will be turned to one side 
on account of the poker as it gets longer turning the needle. 

45. Differential effect. Solder a strip or wire of brass, about two feet 
long, to one of iron of the same length. Straighten the compound 




FIG. 29. Experiment to show the expansion of metal by heat. 

strip by hammering ; then heat it. Notice that the strip bends, 
because the brass expands more than the iron. The same effect can be 
shown, on account of the el>onite expanding more than the wood, by 
means of a strip of ebonite glued to a strip of wood. 

46. Expansion of liquids. Procure a 4-oz. flask and fit it with a 
cork. Bore a hole through the cork and pass through it a long glass 
tube which fits tightly. Fill the flask with water coloured with red 
ink. Push the cork into the neck of the flask and so cause the coloured 
water to rise up the tube (Fig. 30). See that there is no air between 
the cork and the water. Now dip the flask in warm water, and notice 
that the liquid soon gets larger and rises up the tube. Take the flask 



CHAP, iv 



THERMOMETERS 



out of the warm water, and see that the coloured water gets smaller as 
it cools, and that it sinks in the tube. 

47. Expansion of air. Obtain a flask with a cork and narrow tube. 
Remove the cork and tube, and, by suction, draw 

a little red ink into the end of I he tube near the 
cork. Re-insert the cork, and gently warm the 
flask by clasping it in your hands. Notice that 
the air in the flask gets larger and pushes the red 
ink along the tube. 

48. Air thermometer. Turn the flask over 
and place the open end of the tube beneath the 
surface of some coloured water in a bottle. 
Warm the flask with the hand, or a flame, so 
as to expel some of the air, and let the liquid 
rise in the stem (Fig. 31). (This constitutes an 
air thermometer, ) 

49. Air expelled by heat Fit a glass flask 

with a tight cork 
through which passes 
a tube, the upper end 
of which is bent down 
s* \ an d then up at the 

end. Clamp the flask 
so that the end of the 
\*- / tube dips under water 

ft [i TJSF in a basin. Fill a 

test-tube with water, 
j> and invert it over 

the end of the tube. 
Warm the air in the 
flask, and collect the expelled air in 
test-tube. 

Expansion. As a rule all bodies, 
whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, get lar- 
ger when heated, and smaller when cooled. 

The change of size which a body 
undergoes is spoken of as the amount it 
expands or contracts ; or heat is said 
to cause expansion in the body. This 
expansion is regarded in three ways. 
The expansion of solid bodies may 
take place in length, in area, and 
in volume. In the case of liquids and 

. ."* 

gases we have only expansion in volume. 
The expansion which substances undergo when heated, has 
to be allowed for in many things. Railway lines, for instance, 




FIG. 30. To show the ex- 
pansion of a liquid by 
heat. 



the 




FlG. 31. An air 
meter. 



42 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



are usually not placed close together, but a little space is allowed 
between the separate rails, so that they can expand in summer 
without meeting. Steam pipes used for heating rooms are also 
not firmly fixed to the walls at both ends, but are left slightly 
loose, or are loose-jointed, so that they can expand and contract 
without doing any damage. For the same reason the ends of 
iron bridges are not fixed to the supports upon which they rest ; 
and the bars at the top of a gas stove are left loose, so that they 
have room to expand when the burners are lighted under them. 
Iron tyres are put on carriage wheels by first heating the tyre 
and, while it is hot, slipping it over the wheel. As the tyre 
cools it contracts and clasps the wheel very tightly. 

The common occurrence in domestic life of the cracking of 
thick glasses when boiling water is poured into them, is to be 
explained by this expansion of solids by heating. The part of 
the glass with which the hot water comes in contact is heated and 
expands, but the heating is confined to one spot, because glass 
does not allow heat to pass through it readily. It is this local 
expansion of the glass which results in the cracking of the vessel. 

Measurement of change of temperature. Change of 
temperature means change in the state of hotness or coldness of 
a body. The change of size which takes place when a thing is 
heated gives a good way of measuring the change of temperature 
which it undergoes. For instance, a flask with a narrow neck, 
or having a cork with a piece of narrow tubing through it fitted 
into the neck, may contain water up to a certain point marked 
on the neck or tubing. Suppose this flask of water to be heated 
by plunging it into warm water, and that the amount by which 
the top of the water rises in the neck or tube is noted. Then, 
if the flask is afterwards placed into some other liquid or some 
more water, and the water is found to rise up the tube to just 
the same place, it is reasonable to conclude that the second 
liquid is exactly as hot as the first was. This is measuring its 
temperature. The flask and tube with the water have become 
a "temperature measurer," that is, a thermometer. 

TEMPERATURE AND THERMOMETERS 

50. The sense of feeling may be deceived. Arrange three basins in a 
row ; into the first put water as hot as the hand can hear, into the 
second put lukewarm water, and fill the third with cold water. 



IV 



THERMOMETERS 



43 






FIG. 52. Tubes for 
the construction of 
thermometers. 



Place the right hand into the cold water and the left into the hot, 
and after half a minute quickly put both into the luke- 
warm water. The left hand feels cold and the right hand ^ 
warm while in the same water. 

51. Principle of thermometer. Procure an empty ther- 
mometer tube, with a bulb at one end and a cup at the 
top, as in A (Fig. 32), or fix a small funnel upon the tube, M-I MO 
as in B. Put some mercury in the cup. Heat the bulb 
slightly. As the bulb cools, mercury will be forced into 
the tube to take the place of the air 
driven out by the expansion of the air 
in the tube by heat. Repeat the opera- 
tion until the mercury fills the bulb and 
part of the stem. 

52. Measuring temperature. Place 
in hot water the bulb of the instrument 
just constructed, and make a mark at 
the level of the mercury in the tube. 
Now place the instrument in cold 
water, and notice that the mercury 
sinks in the tube. The mercury is 
thus seen to expand when heated and 
contract when cooled, and if the glass 
were marked, the degree of hotness or 
coldness could be shown by the position 
of the top of the mercury. 

53. Degrees of temperature. Ex- 
amine a thermometer. Notice that it 
is similar to the simple instrument 
already described, but the top is sealed 
up, and divisions or graduations are 
marked upon it, so that the height of 
the mercury in the tube can be easily 
seen. These divisions are called degrees 
(Fig. 33)- 

Peeling of heat and cold. 
Some people feel cold at the same 
time that others feel warm. You 
can therefore easily understand that 
the sense of feeling cannot be depended upon to tell 
accurately whether the air or any substance is hot 
or cold. Some instrument is needed which does 
not depend upon feeling, and cannot be deceived in 
the way that our senses can. Such an instrument 
is called a thermometer, and it is used to measure 
temperature, that is, the degree of hotness or cold- 
ness of a body. 



FIG. 33. A 
thermome- 
ter showing 
degrees 
marked on 
the stem. 



44 KXl'KRIMKNTAL 1 1 Y< II KM. rnAi>. 

How expansion may indicate temperature. You 
have already learnt that substances usually expand when 
heated and contract when cooled. A flask filled with water, for 
instance, and having a stopper through which a glass tube passes, 
can be used to show the expansion produced by heat and the 
contraction by cold. But this flask and tube make but a rough 
temperature measurer. The water does not get larger to the 
same amount for every equal addition of heat. Neither is it 
very sensitive, that is to say, it does not show very small 
increases in the degree of hotness or coldness, or, as we must 
now learn to say, it does not record very small differences of 
temperature, and for a thermometer to be any good it must do 
this. Then, too, as every one knows, when water becomes very 
cold it is converted into ice, which, being larger than the water 
from which it is made, cracks the tube. For many reasons, 
therefore, water is not a good thing to use in a thermometer. 

Choice of things to be used in a thermometer. 
The substance used in a thermometer should expand a great 
deal for a small increase of temperature. In common ther- 
mometers a liquid, either quicksilver or spirits of wine, is 
employed. Both these liquids expand a fair amount for a given 
increase of temperature, and, to make this amount of expansion 
as great as possible, a tube with a very fine bore is used with 
a much larger bulb containing the liquid. 

The liquid in a thermometer must not change into a solid 
unless cooled very much, nor into a gas unless heated very 
much. When a thermometer is to be used for measuring great 
degrees of cold, one containing spirits of wine is employed, 
since this liquid has to be cooled a great deal before it is solidified. 
For the measurement of higher temperatures, on the other 
hand, a mercury thermometer is suitable, because it can be 
made very hot without being changed into a vapour. 

The liquid must be held by a tube, of fine equal bore, which 
has a large bulb at the end. The bore must be equal all the 
way along, so that a given amount of expansion in any part of 
the tube shall mean the same change of temperature ; and 
there must be a large bulb, so that there is a large surface ex- 
posed to the substance the temperature of which is to be 
measured. 

There are many other reasons for selecting mercury as the 



THERMOMETERS 45 



liquid for an ordinary thermometer. It is a liquid the level of 
which can be seen easily ; it does not wet the vessel in which it 
is contained ; it expands a considerable amount for a small 
increment of temperature ; it is a good conductor of heat, and 
consequently it very quickly assumes the temperature of the 
body with which it is placed in contact. Very little heat is 
required to raise its temperature, and there is therefore very 
little loss of heat due to warming the thermometer. 

Construction of a thermometer. A suitable piece of 
thermometer tubing having been selected, a bulb must be first 
blown on one end. The glass is melted at this end and allowed to 
run together and so close up the bore, and while the glass is still 
molten, air is blown down the tube from the other end, the tube 
being kept moving round, so that the bulb is symmetrically placed 
with reference to it. The bore of the tube is so' fine that it is 
impossible to pour the liquid down it ; some other plan must 
therefore be adopted. The top of the tube is usually blown into 
a cup shape as shown at A in Fig. 32, and liquid with which 
the thermometer is to be filled is put into it. Suppose mercury 
is being used. Warming the tube makes the air inside it expand, 
and some is driven out. As the tube cools the mercury is 
forced into it by the weight of the atmosphere, to fill the place 
of the expelled air. By repeating this alternate process of 
warming and cooling, in the circumstances we have described, 
enough mercury is soon introduced into the tube. The next 
step is to seal up the tube, leaving no air above the mercury ; 
to do this the bulb is heated to a temperature slightly higher 
than that which the thermometer is intended to register, the 
mercury expands, and when it has reached the drawn-out part, 
C, of the tube, a blow-pipe flame is directed against it, and the 
tube is thus closed up. This method of closing a tube and 
keeping the air out is called hermetically sealing it. The 
thermometer at this stage should be put on one side for some 
days at least, in order that it may assume its final size, which it 
does very slowly indeed. 

GRADUATION OF THERMOMETERS. 

54. The temperature of melting ice. Take some pieces of clean ice 
in a beaker or test-tube and plunge a thermometer amongst them. 
Notice the reading of the thermometer ; it will be either no degrees (o) 



4 6 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 






or very near it. 1 Warm the beaker or test-tube, and observe that so 
long as there is any ice unmelted the reading of the thermometer 
remains the same. 

55. Effect of adding salt to the ice. Add salt to the melting ice, and 
notice that the thermometer indicates a lower degree of temperature. 

56. The temperature of boiling water. Boil 
some distilled water in a flask or test-tube (Fig. 
34), with a thermometer a little distance above the 
surface. Notice that the temperature is 100 C., 
or 212 F., or very near it. Push the thermometer 
into the water ; a higher degree is reached, and the 
mercury is not so steady as it was in the steam. 

57. Temperature of salt water. Add salt to 
the water. Hold a thermometer in the steam of 
the boiling water, and notice that the temperature 
is the same as before, namely, 100. Push the 
thermometer into the water, and notice that a 

higher degree of tem- 
perature is indicated. 

58. Temperature and 
changes of state. 
Again place the ther- 
mometer in clean ice 
in a beaker or flask. 
Gently heat the vessel, 
and notice the following 

changes: (i) The mercury remains at o until 
all the ice is melted. (2) When the ice is melted 
the mercury rises gradually until it reaches 100. 
(3) The mercury remains stationary at 100 until 
all the water is boiled away. 

59. Air temperature. Notice the 
temperature of the room indicated by 
the thermometer. 

60. The clinical thermometer. 
Examine a clinical thermometer. Notice 
the large space between separate de- 
grees. Observe that just above the 
bulb the bore of the thermometer is 
constricted. Hold the bulb in your 
hand and watch the expansion of the 
mercury. On exposing the thermome- 
ter to the air and allowing it to cool, notice that the mercury thread 
breaks at the constriction. The mercury can be shaken back into the 
bulb (Fig. 35). 

The fixed points on a thermometer. In the gradua- 
tion of a thermometer the plan always adopted is to choose 

1 A Centigrade thermometer is supposed to be used. If a Fahrenheit thermometer 
is used the reading will be 32. 





FIG. 34. How to find the tempera- 
ture of steam. 



IV 



THERMOMETERS 



47 



"two fixed points" from which to number degrees of tempera- 
ture. The most convenient lower fixed point is the temperature 
at which ice melts, or water freezes, for this is always the same 
if the ice is pure, and remains the same so long as there is any 
ice left unmelted. Whenever the thermometer is put into melt- 
ing ice the mercury in it should stand at the same 
level, or, in other words, melting ice is always at 
the same temperature and may be thus used to give 
one fixed point. The 
" higher fixed point " 
chosen is that at which 
pure water boils at the 
sea-level. This stipula- 
tion must be made, for 
the boiling point of a 
liquid is altered when the 
pressure upon it is 
changed, being raised if 
the pressure is greater, 
and lowered if the pres- 
sure is less. When pure 
water boils, the tempera- 
ture of the steam is the 
same as that of the water, 
and remains so as long as 
there is any water left. 
The lower fixed tempera- 
ture we refer to as the 
"Freezing Point of 
Water," the higher as its 
" Boiling Point." 

Marking the freezing point. For this 
purpose an arrangement like that shown in Fig. 36 
is very suitable. The funnel is filled with pounded 
ice, which before powdering has been carefully 
washed ; or snow may, if more convenient, be used. The glass 
dish catches the water which is formed from the melting of the ice 
or snow. A hole is made in the pounded ice by thrusting in a 
pencil or glass tube about the size of the thermometer, and into 
this hole the thermometer is put, and is so supported that the whole 




FIG. 36. Determination of 
the freezing point of a ther- 
mometer 



Fir. -35. -A 

clinical 
thermometer. 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



foiling Point of Wales 



of the mercury is surrounded by the ice or snow. The arrange- 
ment is left for about ten or fifteen minutes, until it is quite 
certain that the tube and mercury are at the same temperature 
as the melting ice. When this is so, the tube is raised until the 
mercury is just above the ice, and a fine scratch is made with 
a three-cornered file on the tube at the level of the mercury. 

Precautions necessary in marking the fixed points. 
As the addition of common salt to ice or snow lowers the tem- 
perature of the mix- 
ture, great care must 
be taken that pure, 
clean ice is used when 
the lower fixed point 
of a thermometer is 
being marked. It 
must also be noted 
that the presence of 
some substances other 
than common salt has 
a similar effect on the 
temperature. 

The temperature of 
a boiling solution of 
&nngr*d 9 W*c*W Reaumur common salt in water 

FIG 37. Thermometric scales. j s higher than that of 

the steam which is 

given off from it. Moreover, since it is the temperature of the 
steam from boiling water which alone remains constant at a given 
pressure (the nature of the containing vessel and the presence 
of substances in solution affecting the temperature of the liquid), 
it is necessary, when marking the higher fixed point of a ther- 
mometer, to see that the instrument is in the steam and not 
placed in the liquid. It will be understood more fully later that 
an increase of atmospheric pressure, represented by an increased 
barometric height, raises the temperature at which water boils ; 
hence the height of the barometer must be recorded when the 
higher fixed point is being marked. 

Thermometer scales. Some value must now be given to 
the two fixed points which have been obtained as previously 
described, and of course they may be called anything the 




l Melting point of ice 



IV 



THERMOMETERS 



49 



maker of the thermometer likes, but for the sake 
of comparing one man's observations and experi- 
ments with those of other people, it is most con- 
venient to graduate all thermometers upon an 
established plan. The thermometers used in this 
country are divided up in two ways (i) the Centi- 
grade scale,. (2) the Fahrenheit scale. A third 
scale the Reaumur scale is extensively used in 
Germany (Fig. 37). 

The Centigrade scale. Here the freezing 
point is called zero or no degrees Centigrade, written 
o~ C. The boiling point is called one hundred degrees 
Centigrade, and is written 100 C. The space be- 
tween these two limits is divided into 100 parts, 
and each division called a degree Centigrade. 

The Fahrenheit scale. On thermometers 
marked in this way the freezing point is called 
thirty-two degrees Fahrenheit, written 32 F., and 
the boiling point two hundred and twelve degrees 
Fahrenheit^ written 2i2 : F. The space between 
the two limits is divided into 180 parts, and each 
division is called a degree Fahrenheit. The physicist 
Fahrenheit, after whom the thermometer is named, 
took as the beginning of his scale the point at 
which the mercury stood when his thermometer 
was placed in a mixture of ice-water and either sal- 
ammoniac or sea salt. He called this point zero, or 
cr, and the point at which the mercury stood when 
placed in pure ice and water, 32. Fig. 38 shows 
equivalent degrees of temperature on the two scales. 

Domestic uses of thermometers. It is of 
the first importance that one or more thermo- 
meters should be in every household, ready to hand, 
and frequently used. 

For the measurement of the temperature of the 
body, what is termed a clini'Cal thermometer is best 
(Fig. 35). As the temperature of the living human 
body is never many degrees above or below a tem- 
perature of 98' F., a clinical thermometer is only 
graduated from about 95 F. to 1 10 F. If the bulb 
EXP. HYG. 



F 


| 




230- 


-no 






2204 


-- 




i_ -E 


- 

: 




2JO-! 


|,00 




200-1 


: 




190-f 
iflrt 


r90 




loU -_ 
170-^ 


1-80 


;. 
\ 


160-j 
150-1 


1-70 


-T 
II 

<L> 

o 


140^ 


-60 


5 

u 


130-i 


- 


9 


12 o-: 


^50 


5 

Q> 


no-j 


r 


3 
| 


100 -j 


1-4,0 


eo 

g 


90H 


1-30 




80-^ 


L 




70-| 


'-20 




60H 


r 




50^ 


HO 




40r| 


: 




(2 
| 

^ 




w 





EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



70r 



65 



of such a thermometer is put into the mouth, or under the arm- 
pit, of a person in health, and left there for two or three 
minutes, it will be found, on taking it out, to indicate a tem- 
perature from 97 C< 8 F. to 98 '6 F. The thread of mercury in 
the stem of the thermometer remains in one position, though 
the air is cooling the mercury while the thermometer is being 
read. This is because of the constriction at the top of the bulb, 
which causes the thread of mercury in the stem to be left behind 
while the mercury in the bulb contracts. To " set " the ther- 
mometer for a fresh obser- 
vation, it is only necessary 
to jerk it slightly, when 
the thread of mercury will 
again join up to the liquid 
in the bulb. 

The body may feel hot 
or cold at different times, 
but its actual temperature 
varies only very slightly, 
whether a person in good 
health is at the hottest or 
coldest parts of the earth, 
eating or fasting, at rest 
or taking violent exercise. 
In a fever, however, the 
temperature of the patient 
may rise to ic5 c '8 F., or 
even higher. 

The temperature of a 
living-room should be as 

nearly as possible 60 F. ; and to indicate it a thermometer 
should be kept in a part of the room free from draughts, and 
away from the fire or other source of heat. 

It is always advisable to test the temperature of the water of 
a bath, and for this purpose a bath thermometer, which is sur- 
rounded with a wood casing to enable it to float, is convenient. 
Baths may be roughly classified as follows : cold bath, 60 to 
70 F. ; tepid bath, 85 to 95 F. ; warm bath, 96 to 104 F. ; 
hot bath, 104 to 114 F. A warm bath for a child should have 
a temperature of 96 to 98 F. The water of a cold bath should 



60 




BODY 
TCMPERATURE 

SUMMER 
TEMPERATURE 

HEALTHY 
INDOOR 
TEMPERATURE 



FIG. 39. House thermometers. 



IV 



THERMOMETERS 



never have a temperature less than 59 F., that is, about forty 
degrees lower than the temperature of the healthy human body. 
Few kitchens are provided with a thermo- 
meter. Yet many of the operations of cooking 
can only be regulated with that degree of nicety 
which ensures success when the help of a ther- 
mometer is called in. For instance, the clear, 
gum-like contents of an egg, known as albu- 
min, become converted into a white solid, as 
in the white of a hard-boiled egg, at a tenpera- 
ture of 60 C. (140 F.). Butter, if pure, melts 
at about 95 F., and 
margarine at about 
86 F. If the cook 

HOT BATH 

WARM BATH adopts the unscien- 
TEPID BATH tific plan of guess- 
COLO BATH ing, or "trusting to 
luck, ' we too often 
have an uncooked 
or hard-boiled egg, 
burning fat, and 
other unpleasant 
troubles, which are 
the more vexing 
FIG. 4o.-B.-uh ther- sin ce they could so 
mometer. easily be avoided. 

Just as every 

cook, who knows her business, 
makes constant appeals to the pair 
of scales which she always has 
handy, so she frequently finds it 
necessary to call in the assistance 
of a thermometer. 

Graphic plan of showing 
temperatures. The seven illus- 
trations of a thermometer in Fig. 
41 show the temperature indicated 
by a certain thermometer at noon 



eo 












3 




140 
















t30 
















,/~0 
































ICO 
















90 
















so 

70 






























60 
































' vV 
7/7 


- 


























l!}\ 
















10 
Q j 














































/ 2. 3 4- 5 6 7 



FIG- 41. Temper.itures on seven 
successive days at noon. 



on the first seven days of a certain month. A dotted line has 
been drawn from the point at which the top of the mercury 



E 2 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



yo 
80 

70 
60 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 






/I 


\ 








^ 


/ 




^ 


\ 






7 








\ 


/ 
























































































1234-567 



Vic,. 42. Graphic representation of 
temperatures at noon on seven 
successive days. 



stood on each day to that which it occupied the next day. The 
line is, in fact, a graphic representation of the changes of tem- 
perature from day to day. But it is not necessary to draw 
the thermometer, nor even the thread of mercury ; it is enough 

to put a dot at the point where the 
top of the mercury stands day by 
day, as shown in Fig. 42, and then 
the dots can afterwards be con- 
nected by a line, which will clearly 
indicate the rise and fall of tem- 
perature. 

SUMMARY. 

Expansion. As a rule all bodies, 
whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, lie- 
come larger when heated, and smaller 
when cooled. 

Expansion and contraction by heat 
must be taken into account in (a) laying 
railway lines, (/>) fixing steam or hot- 
water pipes, (c) building bridges. 

Contraction is utilised in fixing iron 
tyres to wheels. 

Choice of materials to be used in 

a thermometer. (i) The substance used should expand a great deal 
for a small increase of temperature. 

(2) If a liquid is used it should not change into a solid unless cooled 
very much, nor into a gas unless heated very much. 

(3) The liquid should be in a fine tube with a comparatively large bulb 
at the end. 

Reasons why mercury is used for thermometers. In addition to 
the above reasons, (a) its level can be easily seen, (/>) it does not wet the 
vessel in which it is contained ; (c) it expands a considerable amount 
for a small increment of temperature ; (d) it is a good conductor of 
heat ; (e) very little heat is required to raise its temperature. 

The fixed points on a thermometer. (i) The temperature at which 
ice melts or water freezes ; (2) the temperature of the steam issuing 
from boiling water when the barometer stands at 30 inches. 

Tbermometric scales. The distance between the freezing and l>oiling 
points on the stem of a thermometer may be divided as follows : 

Fahrenheit scale. Centigrade scale. 

Boiling point 212 100 

Freezing point 32 o 

Other important temperatures. The temperature of the healthy 
human body is about 98 F [97 '8 to 98 -6]. 



THERMOMETERS 53 



In fever the temperature of the body may rise to IO5'8 F. or even 
higher. 

The temperature of a living-room should be as nearly as possible 
60 F. 

Jlatli 'Icnipei a/it res. 

Cold bath 6o- 70 F. Warm bath 96- 104 F. 

Tepid bath 85-95 F. Hot bath 104-! 14" F. 

Warm bath for child 96-98 F. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER IV. 

1. What is a thermometer, and what information concerning heat 
does it supply ? 

2. How would you test whether the two fixed points on a mercurial 
thermometer were accurately marked ? 

What would be the effect on the values obtained for the fixed points 
of the presence of common salt as an impurity in the materials used in 
determining these points ? (1898.) 

3. A flask containing pure water is heated by a single burner and 
one thermometer is placed with its bulb below the surface of the water, 
and another thermometer with its bulb just above the surface. When 
the water boils the readings of the two thermometers are taken. Will 
the readings be the same ? 

What will be the effect on the reading of each thermometer (i) of 
placing a second burner under the flask, and (2) of dropping some 
common salt into the flask ? (1898. ) 

4. Describe carefully the manner in which the freezing and boiling 
points on a thermometer are determined. (1897.) 

5. Take a glass tube open at one end and having a bulb at the other. 
Hold the tube so that the open end dips into water. Heat the bulb 
gently with a spirit lamp for a minute or two, and then take the lamp 
away. What will be observed ? How can you account for the facts 
observed? (P.T., 1898.) 

6. Mention the conditions that should be satisfied by the bulb and tube 
of a mercury thermometer. Give the reason for each condition that 
you state. (P.T., 1898.) 

7. Describe carefully how to construct a common thermometer. 

8. Write an essay pointing out the uses of a thermometer in the 
household. 

9. Draw and describe a clinical thermometer. What temperature 
will it show af'.er its bulb has been placed in the mouth of a healthy 



CHAPTER V 
CAPACITY FOR HEAT. CHANGE OF STATE 

HEAT AND TEMPERATURE 

61. Distinction between temperature and heat. Place a can con- 
taining water over a burner. Place in the can a small test-tube con- 
taining water. After the can has been heated for a little time, observe 
the temperature of the water in the test-tube and in that surrounding it ; 
it will be the same. Takeaway the burner, and lift the test-tube out of 
the can. You now have a small quantity of water and a larger quantity 
both at the same temperature ; but there is more heat in the large 
amount than in the small amount. Prove this by pouring the hot water 
from the test-tube, and that from the can, into equal quantities of cold 
water from the tap in separate vessels. The large amount of hot 
water will thus be found to have a greater heating effect than the small 
amount ; hence it must have possessed more heat than the small amount. 

62. Result of mixing- equal hot and cold quantities of the same 
substance. Put a certain weight of warm water in a glass, and the same 
weight of cold water in another glass. Observe the temperature or 
each by means of a thermometer. Pour the cold water into the hot. 
It will be found, on stirring them together with the thermometer (taking 
care not to break it), that the temperature of the mixture is about 
midway between the two original temperatures. 

Difference between heat and temperature. Tem- 
perature is not heat, but an effect produced by heat ; it is only 
a state of a body, for the body may be cold one minute and hot 
the next. A hot body is one at a high temperature, a cold body 
one at a low temperature. If a hot body and a cold body are 
brought into contact, there is an exchange of heat until they are 
both of the same degree of hotness or coldness, that is, at the 
same temperature. Hence, temperature may be defined as a 
condition or state of a body which is changed by the gain or 
loss of heat. 

Changes of temperature when hot and cold liquids 
are mixed. Suppose that a certain weight of hot water is put 



cir. v CAPACITY FOR HEAT. CHANGE OF STATE 55 



into one vessel and an equal weight of cold water into another. 
There will then be equal- weights of water at different tempera- 
tures. If the two liquids are mixed together, the temperature 
of the hot water will fall, and the temperature of the cold 
will rise. The loss of heat of one will be equal to the 
gain by the other, so that the temperature of the mixture 
will be midway between the two original temperatures. Thus, 
if the weights of water are equal, and the temperatures at first 
are 60 C. and 20 C., then the temperature of the mixture will 
be 4<r C. The temperature of the hot water will fall 20 C., and 
the temperature of the cold water will rise 20 C. 

The actual temperature of the mixture will be slightly less 
than the calculated temperature, because some heat will be 
lost while the liquids are being mixed. 

Quantity of heat in water at different tempera- 
tures. Quantity of heat may be measured by heating effect, 
so that we can say that the quantity of heat in a vessel of water 
depends upon the weight of the water and its temperature. For 
any temperature, say 6o c C., the amount of heat in 100 grams 
of water is twice as great as in 50 grams of water. Similarly, 
the amount of heat in 100 grams of water at 40 C. may be 
regarded as twice that in 100 grams at 20 C. ; assuming for 
the sake of simplicity that water at o C. contains no heat. 
The fall of temperature multiplied by the weight of hot water 
is equal to the rise of temperature multiplied by the weight of 
cold water. 

Unit quantity of heat. As in all other cases of measure- 
ment, a unit or standard quantity is required with which to 
compare quantities of heat. The unit quantity of heat generally 
adopted is the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature 
of one gram of water through one degree Centigrade. This unit 
is called a calorie or therm. The amount of heat required to 
raise the temperature of 2 grams of water through i C. is thus 
2 units or 2 calories. Similarly, if i gram of water at o C. is 
heated in a test-tube over a burner until its temperature is i c C., 
it will have received from the burner I unit of heat, or I calorie. 
If the tube contain 10 grams of water at o C., and its tempera- 
ture is raised to I2 C C., it will have received 10 times 12 ( = 120) 
units of heat, the number of units being equal to weight (in grams) 
x increase of temperature ^n degrees Centigrade). 



56 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



HEAT CAPACITY 

63. The same quantity of heat may produce different changes of 
temperature. Weigh out equal quantities of water and turpentine at 
the same temperature in two vessels of the same size. Pour equal 
quantities of hot water at the same temperature into the cold water 
and the turpentine. Observe the rise of temperature produced in each 
case. Though the equal amounts of hot water contain the same 
quantity of heat, the rise of temperature of the turpentine will be found 
to be more than the rise of temperature of the cold water. 

64. Comparative heating effects of lead and water. Place equal 
weights of lead and water in two test-tubes standing in the same vessel 
of water, and heat them over a laboratory burner until the water boils ; 
the temperature of both the lead and the water will then be about 100" 
C. Provide two glasses containing equal weights of cold water at the 
temperature of the room. Carefully (in order not to break the glass) 
put the hot lead into one of these and the hot water into the other. 
Stir both mixtures and note the temperature in each case. The water 
into which the heated lead is plunged is not at so high a temperature 
as that into which the hot water is poured. 

Equal amounts of water at the same temperature are thus shown 
to be heated to different degrees by equal amounts of lead and water 
at the same high temperature. 

65. Capacity for heat. Place some iron nails in a glass, and the same 
weight of cold water in another glass. Let the two glasses stand for 
a while so as to assume the temperature of the room. Boil water in a 
kettle or other vessel, and pour equal quantities into the two glasses. 
Observe the temperature of the mixture in the two glasses. The iron 
nails will be found to be hotter than the water in the other glass, 
because iron takes less heat to raise its temperature than is required by 
an equal weight of water at the same temperature. 

Comparison of heat quantities. The quantity of heat 
in any amount of water depends upon the weight of the water 
and its temperature. It might be supposed, therefore, that as 
any weight of water at a certain temperature contains a certain 
quantity of heat, the same weight of another substance at the 
same temperature contains the same quantity of heat. This 
is not the case. 100 grams of water at a temperature of 50 C. 
contain 5000 units of heat more than at o C., but 100 grams of 
turpentine, mercury, lead, iron, or any other substance at the 
same temperature as the water, namely 50 C., do not contain 
this additional number of units of heat. The quantity of heat 
in a substance thus depends not only upon the weight and the 
temperature, but also upon the substance itself. 

If some hot water is poured into a cup containing cold water, 



CAPACITY FOR HEAT. CHANGE OF STATE 



57 



the cold water rises to a certain degree of warmth ; but if the 
same weight of hot water is poured into a cup containing the 
same weight of cold turpentine and at the same temperature as 
the cold water, the mixture of water and turpentine becomes 
warmer than the mixture of hot and cold water, because turpen- 
tine has a smaller capacity for heat than water. 

The heat capacity of a substance may be considered as ana- 
logous to the capacity of a vessel to hold water, and temperature 
to change of level, as illustrated in Fig. 43. 

Capacity of water for heat. Of all known substances, 
water has the greatest capacity for heat. Consequently a larger 
amount of heat is required to raise the temperature of a given 
weight of water 
through any number 
of degrees than is 
needed by an equal 
weight of any other 
substance. 

Thus, suppose a 
pound of water be 
put into one flask 
and a pound of mer- 
cury into another, 
and that these flasks 
are then heated for 

five minutes by two laboratory burners, which, so far as appear- 
ances go, give out the same quantity of heat. The tempera- 
ture of the two liquids at the commencement of the experiment 
is, say, 1 5'"' C. If at the end of the experiment the temperature 
of the water is 20 C., that of the mercury would probably be 
about 1 80" C., that is, much higher than the boiling point of water. 

The capacity for heat of a substance is sometimes called its 
specific heat. 

Results in nature of high capacity of water for 
heat. The results in nature of this great capacity for heat 
which water possesses are very important. 

Though water takes a large amount of heat to warm it, and is 
consequently heated by the sun's rays only .slowly, yet when it 
cools it parts with its heat just as slowly. The effect of this on 
the climate of islands is very marked. The winter temperature 




FIG. 43. The same quantity of water causes different 
rises of level in vessels of different capacities. 



58 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAR 



is never very low, and the climate never very severe, because 
the water surrounding the country acts as a great storehouse 
of heat, slowly giving up heat to it. Similarly, the summer tem- 
perature is never unbearably hot, because the surrounding water 
takes so long to warm, and, being always cooler than the land, 
continually takes heat from the latter. 

LIQUEFACTION 

66. Melting point of butter. Place a little butter in a test-tube, and 
stand a thermometer in it. Place the test-tube in a beaker of water, 
being gently heated on a sand-bath. Notice the temperature at which 
the butter melts. Take out the test-tube when the butter has all 
melted and let it cool. Notice the temperature at which the butter 
solidifies. 

67. Molting point of ice. Put some small piecs or shavings of clean 
ice into a beaker, and thrust a thermometer into them. Record the 
temperature indicated. Pour in a little water, stir the mixture, and 
again record the temperature. Place the beaker on .a sand-bath and 
warm it gently. Notice the reading of the thermometer so long as 
there is any ice nnmelted. In all these cases the reading of the 
thermometer is practically the same, indicating that the temperature 
of melting ice is constant. 

68. Heat required to melt ice. Let a few lumps of ice stand in a 
beaker until some of them have melted. Notice that the temperature 
is o C. Counterpoise two empty beakers of the same size in the pans 
of a balance, and put a small lump of the ice into one, and the same 
weight of water from the melted ice in the other. You have thus 
equal weights of ice and water at o C. Pour equal weights of hot 
water into the two beakers. When the ice is melted, observe the 
temperature of the water in each beaker. The temperature of the 
water in the beaker in which the ice was placed will be found much 
lower than that of the water in the other beaker, owing to the ice 
using up a large quantity of the heat in melting into water. 

69. Comparative cooling effects of ice and water. Take equal weights 
of hot water in two large beakers of the same size. Place a piece of 
ice in one of the beakers, and observe the temperature of the water 
when it has melted. Pour ice-cold water into the other beaker until 
the same temperature is reached. Find the weights of ice and ice-cold 
water which have been added. It will be found that a small weight 
of ice has as much cooling effect ns a large weight of ice-cold water. 

70. Heat given up during solidification of a liquid. Dissolve as 
much crystallised sodium sulphate as you can in boiling water contained 
in a flask. Transfer the saturated solution, as it is called, to another 
flask which has been thoroughly cleaned. Gently put a thermometer 
into the flask, and close its neck with a plug of cotton wool. Place the 
flask and its contents on one side to cool. When the solution is of the 
same temperature as the room, it is what is known as a supersaturated 



CAPACITY FOR HEAT. CHANGE OF STATE 59 



solution. Now drop a small crystal of sodium sulphate into the liquid. 
Notice that the solution suddenly solidifies ; observe the rise in tempera- 
ture as indicated by the thermometer. 

Change of state. Substances exist in three states, namely, 
solid, liquid, and gaseous. By the action of heat a substance 
may be changed from one state to another. Wax, for in- 
stance, is usually a solid, but by heating it becomes a liquid. 
Butter can in the same way easily have its state altered from 
solid to liquid. Lead and zinc are also melted when heated, but 
they require a hotter flame than wax or butter. 

A good example of the changes of state produced by heat is 
obtained by heating a piece of ice until it becomes water, and 
then heating the water until it passes off into steam or water 
vapour. Here the same form of matter is by heat made to 
assume three states ; in other words, ice, water, and steam are 
the same form of matter in the solid, liquid, and gaseous state 
respectively. 

Temperature of melting. -When a solid is heated, the 
first effect is usually an increase of size. But if the heating 
is continued long enough, when the solid reaches a certain 
temperature, which differs for different solids, melting begins. 
The solid changes into a liquid. The temperature at which the 
inciting takes place is called the melting point. Thus, when a 
lump of lead is heated, its temperature rises, it gets larger, and 
as the heating is continued it is converted into a silvery-looking 
liquid. Wax, ice, and iron are other examples of solids which melt. 
But ice, wax, lead, and iron differ very widely in the tempera- 
tures at which they begin to melt, as the following table shows : 

Ice melts at o* C. 

Bees-wax 65 C. 

Lead 33o' J C. 

So long as any of the solid remains unmelted, the tempera- 
ture does not rise above the melting point. 

Latent heat. It is certain that when a mixture of ice and 
water is heated over a laboratory burner, heat is being continually 
given to the mixture. Yet the temperature as recorded by the 
thermometer gets no higher. What becomes of this heat, as it 
has no effect upon the temperature of the mixture ? You know 
that the ice is gradually melted, and if the heating is continued 



60 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

long enough it is all changed into water. So soon as this has 
happened, every further addition of heat raises the temperature 
of the water. These considerations lead to the conclusion that 
the heat previously given to the mixture is all used up in bringing 
about the change of ice into water. Further, it is found that 
not only in the case of ice, but when any solid is turned into a 
liquid, there is no increase in temperature, even while heat is 
being added to it, until the whole of the solid has been changed 
to a liquid. This amount of heat which is necessary to change 
a solid into a liquid is spoken of as latent heat. 

Just as in the change of a solid into a liquid at the same 
temperature, a definite quantity of heat becomes latent, 
or used up, so when the converse change occurs a definite 
amount of heat is liberated. This is well shown by preparing 
a supersaturated solution of sodium sulphate, and then causing 
it to solidify suddenly by dropping a crystal of the same sub- 
stance into it. When the change from the liquid to the solid 
state is thus brought about, the heat, which in the liquefaction 
became latent, is liberated again, and a decided rise in tempera- 
ture, which immediately affects the thermometer, is noticed. 

Latent heat of water. The number of units of heat 
which are required to change the state of a gram of ice, convert- 
ing it from the solid to the liquid condition without raising its 
temperature, is called the latent heat of water, or the latent heat 
of fusion of ice. To melt i grain of ice requires 80 heat-units. 
That is to say, as much heat as would raise the temperature of 
a gram of water through 80 C., or would raise that of 80 grams 
of water through i C., is used up in changing a gram of ice into 
a gram of water at the same temperature. 

Natural consequences of latent heat of water. Just 
as it is necessary before a pound of ice can be changed into a 
pound of water to supply an amount of heat which would raise 
the temperature of a pound of water through 80 C., so before a 
pound of water can be changed into a pound of ice, we must 
take from it precisely the same amount of heat. This is why it 
takes so many cold nights to cover a pond with ice ; for not 
until every pound of water at the surface has lost this amount of 
heat can it change into ice. For the same reason, it takes a 
very long time to melt completely the snow in the roads and 
the ice on the ponds, even after a thaw has set in. 



CAPACITY FOR HEAT. CHANGE OF STATE 



61 




ETHER- 



FIG. 44. How to freeze v ater by the evaporation 
of ether. 



VAPORISATION 

71. Cooling produced by evaporation. Sprinkle a few drops of 
spirits of wine, sal volatile, and ether, on your hand in succession. Notice 
the liquid soon disappears, 

and its presence in the air 
can be detected by its smell. 
The rate at which the liquid 
evaporates is increased by- 
waving the hand about. The 
hand feels cold. 

72. Water frozen by 
evaporation. Pour a few 
drops of water upon a dry 
piece of thin wood, and 
stand in the water a thin 
l>eaker containing a little 
ether. Blow vigorously 
down a tube having one 
end in the ether, or use a 
pair of bellows (Fig. 44). 

The ether rapidly evaporates, and in doing so takes heat front tJie ^ualer 
l>etween the beaker and piece of wood. The beaker and wood become 
frozen together. 

73. Heat liberated when steam is condensed. Put equal quan- 

tities of cold water into two 
beakers of the same size. 
Observe the temperature. 
Boil water in a flask with 
a delivery tube (Fig. 45), 
;md pass the steam into 
the cold water in one of the 
beakers. When the tem- 
perature of the water has 
been raised about ten de- 
grees, take away the de- 
livery tul>e, pull the cork 
out of the flask, and pour 
enough boiling water into 
the other beaker to raise 
the temperature by the same 
numl)er of degrees. Find 
by means of a balance the 

Fin. 45-Flask fitted with delivery tube and trap W eJj tS <>f Steam and water 
to catch condensed steam. For latent heat added to the Cold water 111 
experiment. the two beakers. It will 

be found that a small weight 

of steam in condensing into water produces the same heating effect 

as a much larger weight of boiling water. 




62 EXPERIMENTAL IIYCII.NT. CHAP. 

Heat disappears during vaporisation. When a liquid 
is changed into vapour, a certain amount of heat is used up. It 
does not matter whether the liquid evaporates quietly or boils ; 
every gram of it requires a certain amount of heat before it 
becomes converted into vapour. In boiling, this heat is supplied 
by the flame or fire, and in evaporation it is taken from the 
objects in contact with the liquid. The faster the evaporation 
the more heat is absorbed in this way. When a liquid evapor- 
ates very rapidly, the cooling produced is very noticeable. For 
instance, if a few drops of either spirits of wine or ether are 
sprinkled upon the hand, the liquid soon disappears and the hand 
feels cold. The heat necessary for the evaporation of these 
liquids is taken from the hand (or from any other things with 
which they are in contact), consequently the hand becomes cooler 
and cooler as the vapour is formed. So much heat may be 
absorbed in this way that water can be frozen by the evaporation 
of ether in a vessel in contact with it. 

In tropical countries, where the land gets very hot during the 
day, evaporation takes place so rapidly after sunset that the 
water sometimes becomes so much cooled as to freeze, by the 
extraction of the heat required to bring about the change from 
liquid to vapour. 

Latent heat of steam. When once water has started to 
boil, its temperature gets no higher than the boiling point. So 
long as there is any water left, no matter how much you heat it, 
its temperature remains the same. All the heat is absorbed, or 
used up, in bringing about the change from the liquid state to 
that of vapour. It requires a great many more heat-units to 
convert one gram of water at a temperature of 100 C. into 
steam at the same temperature, than it does to change a gram of 
ice at o c C. into a gram of water at or C. It has been seen that 
to bring about the latter change requires an expenditure of 80 
heat-units, whereas to convert a gram of water at ioo c C. into a 
gram of steam without changing its temperature requires no 
fewer than 536 heat-units. Thus the Intent heal of steam, or, as 
it is sometimes called, the latent heal of vaporisation of water, is 
536. It must be remembered that a liquid is never changed into 
a vapour without some absorption of heat. This is true whether 
the change takes place quietly in evaporation, or rapidly as in 
boiling. 



v CAPACITY FOR HEAT. CHANGE OF STATE 63 

Just as a large quantity of heat is required to convert water 
into steam, so a large quantity is given up when steam becomes 
water. It is for this reason that a scald from the steam of 
boiling water is worse than a scald from the boiling water 
itself. 

SUMMARY. 

Temperature may be defined as a condition, or state, of a body 
which is changed by the gain or loss of heat. 

The unit quantity of heat is the amount of heat necessary to raise 
the temperature of one gram of water through one degree Centigrade. 
This unit is called a therm, or a calorie. 

To ascertain the number of heat-units taken up, or given out, by any 
weight of water we may say : 

Number of heat-units = Weight of water in grams x Number of 
degrees Centigrade through which its 
temperature rises, or falls. 

The capacity for heat of a substance is analogous to the capacity of 
a vessel for fluids. Water has a greater capacity for heat than any 
other substance. Its high capacity for heat has a profound influence 
on the climate of islands. 

In determining the number of heat-units in a substance, its capacity 
for heat must be taken into account as well as its weight and its 
temperature. In fact : 

Number of heat-units = Weight of substance x its change of temperature 
x its capacity for heat. 

Melting point. The temperature at which a solid changes into a 
liquid is called its melting point. 

Latent heat. The number of heat-units necessary to change a solid 
into a liquid at the same temperature, or the amount required to change a 
liquid into a gas at the same temperature, is known as latent heat. 

Latent heat of water. The number of heat-units required to convert 
one gram of ice at o C. into water at the same temperature is known as 
the latent heat of water. Its numerical value is 80. 

Latent heat of steam. The number of heat-units required to change 
one gram of water at 100 C. into steam at the same temperature is 
known as the latent heat of steam. Its numerical value is 536. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER V. 

1. If a pound of water at 100 C. is mixed with a pound of water at 
o C., the temperature of the mixture is 50 C. How would the result 
have differed if a pound of oil at 100 C. had been substituted for the 
hot water? Explain the difference. (1897.) 

2. What is the difference between temperature and quantity of heat ? 



64 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. V 



What experiments would you perform to show that equal weights of 
water and iron tacks when cooled through the same range of tempera- 
ture give out different quantities of heat ? 

3. What is the capacity for heat of a body? 

Which lias the greater capacity for heat, 5 c.c. of mercury, or 2 c.c. 
of water? [Specific gravity of mercury, 13*6; specific heat, '033.] 
(Junior Oxford Local, 1900. ) 

4. What will be the temperature of the mixture produced (supposing 
no heat to be lost) by mixing 

(a] I Ib. of water at 10 C. with 3 Ibs. of water at 70 C. ? 

(b) i Ib. of quicksilver at 15 C. with I Ib. of mercury at 95 C. ? 

5. I place on a piece of wood a vessel containing ether, having 
previously poured some water on the wood. State what occurs when I 
blow over the surface of the ether with a pair of bellows, and explain 
the several results. (1900. ) 

6. Define what is understood by the melting point of a solid. How 
would you determine this temperature in the case of butter? 

7. What is meant by the latent heat of fusion ? How do you account 
for the fact that a long time is necessary to effect a complete thaw after 
a hard frost? 

8. What unit is employed in measuring quantities of heat? 

9. Why is a scald from the steam of boiling water more severe than 
one from boiling water itself? 



CHAPTER VI 
TRANSFERENCE OF HEAT 






CONDUCTION 

74. Relative conductivities of metals. Obtain wires of copper, iron, 
brass, German silver, and of any other metals available. Let the 
diameters be the same as nearly as possible, and the lengths about 15 
to 20 cms. Place the wires upon a clay tile, as shown in Fig. 46. Sup- 
port the tile in a horizontal position, and heat the wires with a flame 
where they meet. After a few 

minutes, slowly move the head of 
a match along each wire in suc- 
cession, commencing at the ends 
away from the flame, and notice 
the points at which the matches 
will light. 

The distances of these points 
from the flame indicate the relative 
conducting powers of the metals of 
which the wires are composed. 

75. Lowering of temperature by 
conduction. Make a short coil 
of stout copper wire |-inch internal 
diameter. Pass it over the wick 
of a lighted candle without touching 
the wick. The candle is extin- 
guished owing to the cooling effect 
of the wire, which conducts away 
the heat. 

76. Action of wire gauze. 
Turn on, but do not light, a gas jet. 
Hold over it a piece of wire gauze, 

and light the gas above the gauze. Notice that the flame does not strike 
through. Why ? Vary the experiment by lowering a piece of cold 
wire gauze upon an ordinary Bunsen flame. What happens ? 

77. Water is a bad conductor. Fill a test-tube three-quarters full with 
cold water. Hold the test-tube near the bottom, and warm the top of 

EXP. HYG. F 




FIG. 46. Experiment to show that heat 
travels along some metals more easily 
than along others. 



66 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



the water in a Bunsen flame, as shown in Fig. 47. The water at the 
top can be heated until it boils vigorously, but if the test-tube is taken 

away from the flame, and the tempera- 
ture of the water at the bottom tested 
with a thermometer, it will be found 
much below the boiling point. 

Conduction of heat. By 

touching a succession of things in 
a room, say the marble mantel- 
piece, the fender, the back of a 
chair, the hearth-rug, a succession 
of sensations is obtained ; the first 
two feel cold, the chair-back not 
quite so cold, while the rug feels 
quite warm, and yet they are one 
and all under the same conditions, and there is no reason why 
they should not be at the same temperature. The explanation 
of these different sensations is really very simple. In all those 
cases where the hand receives more heat than it gives up the sensa- 




FIG. 47. Experiment to show that 
water is a bad conductor of heat. 



LOSS 

EXCEEDS 

GAIN 



LOSS GREATLY GAIN GREATLY 




FIG. 48. Relation of gain of heat to loss decides whether the hand feels hot or cold. 



tion of warmth is experienced, while in those where the hand loses 
more heat than it gains the body feels cold or cool (Fig. 48). This 
explains why the fender feels colder than the hearth-rug. The 
fender takes more heat from the hand than the hearth-rug, and 
it does so because it is a better conductor of heat. 



VI TRANSFERENCE OF HEAT 67 

It is worth while to consider this expression a little. Suppose 
one end of a poker is put into a fire, while the other is held in 
the hand. Soon the poker begins to feel warm, and as time 
goes on it gets warmer and warmer, until at last it can be held 
no longer. Heat has passed from the fire along the poker, or 
has been conducted from the fire by the poker. 

The process by which heat passes from one particle of a body to 
the next is called conduction, and the body along which it passes 
is known as a conductor. 

Good and bad conductors. Those substances which 
easily transmit heat in this way are called good conductors, while 
those which offer a considerable amount of resistance to its 
passage are called bad conductors. 

Metals are, as a rule, good conductors of heat, but some 
metals conduct heat better than others. Most liquids are bad 
conductors of heat.- though mercury, being a metal, is an 
exception. If liquids were heated only by conduction, water 
would boil throughout just as quickly when the source of heat 
was placed in contact with the top layer of liquid as it does 
when the heating takes place from below. 

Gases are even worse conductors of heat than liquids. The 
very small power of conducting heat possessed by air is made 
use of in many familiar household devices. 

Everyday uses of bad conductors. To keep ice in 
the warm days of summer the custom is to wrap it up in flannel 
and put it into a refrigerator. The flannel, because of its loose 
texture, encloses a quantity of air which, being a bad conductor 
of heat, prevents the passage of heat from the warm outside air 
to the cold ice inside. The refrigerator, too, depends for its 
construction on much the same facts. It is often a double- 
walled box with an air space between the walk; which forms a 
non-conducting layer retarding the passage of heat from out- 
side ; or, the space may be filled with asbestos, or some other 
bad conductor. 

Ice which has to be conveyed by rail or boat is often packed 
in sawdust. The reason for this is because the air between the 
particles of wood making up the sawdust does not conduct the 
heat from the outside to melt the ice. For the same reason, to 
lift hot plates it is usual to hold them in a folded cloth, when the 
layer of air enclosed by the cloth prevents the hand being burnt. 

F 2 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



The handles of metal teapots are often made of ivory, bone, 
or similar non-conducting material, to enable the teapot to be 
lifted without inconvenience, even when it is full of hot tea. A 
tea cosy, inclosing as it does a layer of air, keeps the tea hot, 
because the escape of heat frqm the teapot takes place only slowly. 
One of the chief reasons for wearing clothes is because they 
are bad conductors of heat. In winter they keep in the heat of 
the body, so that it cannot escape to 
the cold outside air ; and in summer 
they keep the heat of the sun from the 
cooler body. Such devices as ladies' 
muffs and woollen comforters all owe 
their efficacy to the air inclosed by 
them, which, because of its being a 
non-conductor of heat, prevents the 
heat of the hand and neck from escap- 
ing, and so causing them to become 
cold. For a similar reason blankets 
and eider-down quilts are used on the 
bed in cold weather. 

The wooden handle of a soldering 
"iron," and the cork mat on which 
one stands in a bath-room, are both 
used to avoid an escape of heat. 
Evidently wood and cork are bad 
conductors of heat. 




FIG. 49. Convection currents 
in a liquid. 



CONVECTION 

78. Convection in a liquid. Heat over 
a small flame a round-bottomed flask full 
of water, as in Fig. 49. Throw into the 
water some solid colouring matter, like 
cochineal, aniline dye, litmus, etc. Notice how the hot and coloured 
water ascends. 

79. Circulation of water. Fit up the apparatus shown in Fig. 50. 
A is a 6-oz. wide-mouthed corked bottle, with the bottom knocked out (a 
small gas jar will do, or an ordinary lamp glass maybe used). A well- 
fitting cork with two holes is inserted, through which the bent glass 
tubes B, B' pass, as shown. They are united at the bottom by a short 
piece of india-rubber tubing, C. Pour water into A until it just covers 
the open ends of the tubes. Now pour in about a tea-spoonful of ink. 
Apply a small flame at B. Notice what happens. 



TRANSFERENCE OF HEAT 



69 




FIG. 50. Circulation of water 
caused by heat. 



80. Convection currents in gases. 
Place a short piece of candle in a saucer, 
light it, put a lamp glass over it, and pour 
sufficient water into the saucer to cover the 
bottom of the lamp glass (Fig. 51). Watch 
how the light of the candle is affected. 
Next cut a strip of card less than half the 
height of the lamp glass, and nearly as wide 
as the internal diameter of the top. Insert 
the card into the lamp glass so as to divide 
the upper part into halves. Now light the 
candle again, and see whether it will burn 
with the divided chimney over it. Test 
the direction of the currents of air at the 
top of the chimney by holding a smoking 
taper or lighted match over it. 



Process by which liquids are 
heated. The process by which 
water and other liquids are heated 
may be easily studied by heating 
water into which bran or oak dust, 

or some solid colouring matter, has been thrown in a round- 
bottomed flask over a small flame, as in Fig. 49. The water 
nearest the flame gets heated, and consequently expands and 
gets lighter. It therefore rises, and causes a warm ascending 

current of coloured water. But 
something must take the place of 
this water which rises, and the 
cold water at the top, being heavier 
than the warm water, sinks to the 
bottom and occupies the place of 
the water which has risen. This 
water in its turn gets heated and 
rises, and more cold water from 
the surface sinks. This gives rise 
to upward currents of heated water 
and downward currents of cool 
water, until by and by the whole 
of the water is heated. These 
currents are known as convection 
currents, and the process of heat- 
FIG. 51. Convection currents in air. ing in this manner is called 




70 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

convection. Eventually the whole of the water gets so hot that 
the bubbles of vapour which are formed near the source of heat 
are not condensed again in their upward passage through the 
liquid, and coming to the surface they escape as steam. 

Gases are similarly heated by the process of convection, 
which may be thus defined -. Convection is the process by which 
fluids (liquids and gases] become heated by the actual movement 
of the particles of the fluid due to difference of density. 

The upward movement of warm air and downward movement 
of cooler air can be shown by placing a short piece of lighted 
candle in a saucer, putting a lamp glass over it, and pouring 
sufficient water into the saucer to cover the bottom of the lamp 
glass (Fig. 51). In this case the light of the candle is affected 
and eventually goes out. But if a strip of card is cut less than 
half the height of the lamp glass, and nearly as wide as the 
internal diameter of the top, and is inserted into the lamp glass, 
so as to divide the upper part into halves, and then the candle 
is again lit, it will be seen to continue to burn with the divided 
chimney over it. The direction of the currents of air at the top 
of the chimney can be shown by holding a smoking taper 01 
smouldering brown paper over the chimney. 

RADIATION 

81. Transmission of heat by radiation. Place two similar thermo- 
meters, one about a foot away from the flame of a laboratory burner, 
and the other eighteen inches away. Arrange the thermometers and 
the flame in one straight line. Notice that the bulb of the thermometer 
nearer to the flame is hotter than the one more remote. How does the 
heat of the flame travel to the thermometer ? 

Place one of the thermometers eighteen inches above the flame, and 
compare the readings of the thermometer in this and its former position. 
In the latter case the air is heated by convection. 

82. Distinction between radiation and conduction. (a) Fix a metal 
wire with one end in the flame of a laboratory burner. The wire becomes 
hot. After a few minutes slowly move the head of a match along the 
wire until it ignites. Notice the distance at which this occurs. Bring 
another match near the side of a flame and notice how close it must be 
to the flame before it ignites. Evidently air does not conduct heat so 
well as a metal. 

(b) Light a burner, and hold one hand by the side of the flame as close 
as you can to it ; then suddenly turn off the gas with the other hand. 
The hand ceases to be heated so soon as the flame is extinguished, thus 
showing that the air around the flame is not appreciably warmed by 



vi TRANSFERENCE OF HEAT 71 

radiation. A metal wire, however, held in the flame remains hot even 
after the flame has been extinguished. 

83. Effect of surface upon radiation. Obtain two small bright tin 
cans or canisters, and fit into each a cork having a hole through which a 
thermometer will pass. Cover the outside of one of the vessels with 
lamp-black by holding it over a candle or luminous gas flame, or over 
burning camphor. Put the same quantity of hot water at the same 
temperature in each, and then cork up the vessels, each cork having a 
thermometer through it so that the bulb is well immersed in the water. 
Observe the temperature of each vessel of water, and if the temperature 
of one is higher than that of the other, cool the vessel until the tempera- 
tures are equal. Then put the vessels in a cool place where there are 
no draughts, and after 20 to 30 minutes again read the temperatures. 

The blackened vessel will be found to have lost or radiated more 
heat than the bright one. 

84. Effect of surface upon absorption. Similarly fill equally a 
blackened and a bright vessel with cold water of the same temperature, 
and hang them for 20 to 30 minutes at the same distance above an 
iron plate, supported on a tripod stand and heated by a laboratory 
burner. At the end of this time observe their temperatures. 

The blackened vessel will be found at a higher temperature than the 
bright one, indicating that a lamp-black surface absorbs heat better 
than a bright metallic surface. 

Radiant heat. Heat can travel from one place to another 
by radiation, which is distinct from conduction or convection. 
The respects in which radiation differs from the other ways in 
which heat moves from one place to another are : (i) it travels 
in straight lines, and (2) it does not warm the medium through 
which it travels. Although you may not have thought of the 
fact that radiation travels in straight lines, you have made use 
of it when you have screened your face from the heat of the sun 
or of a fire. When you wish to protect yourself from the glare 
of the summer sun you seek a shady place, because then some 
object, it may be a tree or a house, is in the straight line 
between you and the sun. 

Rays of heat are, in fact, similar to rays of light, and both are 
transmitted in the same way. It is easy to show that heat-rays 
do not appreciably warm the air through which they are passing. 
For instance, if the hand is held close to one side of the flame 
of a laboratory burner, the hand feels warm, but almost im- 
mediately the flame is extinguished the sense of hotnes^ ceases, 
whereas, if the air by the side of the flame were actually heated 
by the rays, it would feel hot even when the flame was ex- 
tinguished. In this respect the air behaves differently from a 



72 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



metal rod, one end of which is heated in a flame, for the rod 
remains hot after the flame has been turned out, because it is 
heated by conduction. 

Radiation and absorption. When two tin cans, one of 
which is very bright on the outside, while the other is coated 
with lamp-black, have equal quantities of hot water placed in 
them and are left to cool in a place free from draughts, it is 
found that the water in the blackened can gets cooler in a given 
time than that in the bright can. 

Similarly, if equal quantities of cold water are placed in a 
bright and a lamp-black-covered can, respectively, and the 
cans are hung above a hot metal plate, it is found that after a 
given interval of time the water in the blackened vessel is hotter 
than that in the bright vessel. 

Substances of different kinds do not absorb and radiate heat 
equally. Bright metal surfaces, for instance, are bad absorbers 
of radiant heat, but they are excellent reflectors of radiation. 
Lamp-black is a good absorber of radiant heat, and it, in common 
with other good absorbers, radiates heat with great readiness. 
It is a general rule that good absorbers are good radiators. 

Applications of principles. These facts about radiators 
and absorbers are constantly being made use of in everyday 
life. It is customary to wear lighter coloured garments in 
summer than in winter ; the reason is that the darker clothes are 
better absorbers of heat than lighter ones, though, since they 
are also better radiators, it is very questionable if there is much 
efficacy in the custom. The reason usually alleged for wearing 
light-coloured clothes in summer is that they are good reflectors 
of the radiant heat from the sun. But in this case, too, it must 
be borne in mind that these light fabrics are also bad radiators, 
and consequently the heat of the body is less readily got rid of ; 
but, as the outside air is much warmer than the body this does 
not detract very much from their comfort. It would probably 
be more satisfactory to wear light-coloured clothes both in 
summer and winter ; the temperature of the body is not, 
however, the only consideration. In a climate like ours the 
questions of cleanliness and economy have also to be taken into 
account. Where expense is no object, the best results are 
obtained from light-coloured garments for both seasons. 

The bad absorbing and good reflecting powers of white things 



vi TRANSFERENCE OF HEAT 73 

are made use of, too, in the white sunshades which are carried 
by ladies in summer, and in the custom of white-washing the 
roofs of buildings to make the rooms inside cooler during the 
hot days of July and August. 

Bright metal tea-pots are preferred because of the bad radiating 
powers of their surfaces. The tea in such a tea-pot will keep 
hot longer than that in a black earthenware one if they are 
both left on a table for the same length of time. On the con- 
trary, if the tea has become cool, and it is required to warm it 
up, by placing the tea-pots in front of the fire, the tea in the 
black tea-pot will become heated more quickly because the black 
surface absorbs heat more readily than the bright metal. For 
a similar reason stoves and fire-grates are made black so that 
they may the more readily radiate their heat. 

SUMMARY. 

Heat is transmitted in three ways : (i) by conduction ; (2) by con- 
vection ; (3) by radiation. 

Conduction is the process by which heat passes from one particle of a 
body to the next. 

Solids are usually better conductors than liquids ; liquids conduct 
heat better than gases. 

Everyday uses of bad conductors. The plan of wrapping ice in 
flannel, the construction of refrigerators, the tea-cosy, eider-down 
quilts, are all applications of the bad conducting power for heat of air. 

Cork and wood are also bad conductors of heat. 

Convection is the process by which liquids and gases become heated 
by the actual movement of their particles due to difference of density. 

Heating buildings by hot water and methods of ventilation are 
applications of heating by convection. 

Radiation differs from conduction and convection in two ways : { I ) 
it travels in straight lines : (2) it does not warm the medium through 
which it travels. 

Radiation and absorption. Different substances do not absorb and 
radiate heat equally. Good absorbers are good radiators. Lamp-black 
is a good absorber and a good radiator. Bright metal surfaces do not 
absorb heat much, but reflect it readily. 

The custom of wearing light-coloured garments in summer is due to 
the fact that they do not absorb so much heat as darker ones. Rcofs 
are white-washed for a similar reason. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER VI. 

i What is meant by convection ? 

Illustrate your answer by sketches, taking the case of a vessel filled 
with water and heated from below, and explain why it is that convection 
is set up. (1899.) 



74 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. vi 

2. Why is a vessel of water heated more quickly if heat is applied at 
the bottom than if it is heated at the top ? 

Draw a diagram to illustrate the movements of a liquid heated from 
below. (1897.) 

3. Point out the difference between the conduction and convection 
of heat. 

Describe an experiment showing that water is a bad conductor of 
heat. (1897.) 

4. Water sometimes spurts from the spout of a kettle standing upon 
a fire. How do you account for this, and how would you prevent it 
without taking the kettle off the fire. (P.T., 1897.) 

5. On a cold morning a gardener grasps the iron part of his spade 
with one hand and the wooden part with the other. Explain why one 
hand feels colder than the other. (P.T., 1898.) 

6. If a spoon made of solid silver and one made of brass and only 
silver-plated are placed in bowls in some boiling water, the handle of 
the silver spoon becomes much hotter than that of the plated one. Why 
is this ? 

Describe an experiment by which you would show that your ex- 
planation is correct. (1899.) 

7. How is the reading of a thermometer altered by wrapping a wet 
rag round the bulb ? What will happen if the rag is wetted wilh 
(i) ether, (2) oil instead of water? How do you explain the various 
results? (Queen's Sch., 1899.) 

8. Two test-tubes A and B are filled with water. A small piece of ice 
is allowed to swim in A, and a similar piece of ice is sunk by a weight 
to the bottom of B. Heat is applied to the closed end of A and to 
the open end of B. In which test-tube may we expect the ice first to 
melt ? and in which may we expect the water first to boil ? Give reasons 
for your answer. (Queen's Sch., 1899.) 

9. What is the use of a tea cosy ? To what properties of heat does it 
owe its efficacy ? Mention any other familiar applications of the same 
facts. 

10. Describe an experiment, the results of which will enable you to 
compare the conducting powers of copper, German silver, and iron for 
heat. 

11. Explain how the air of a room is heated by an ordinary fire 
burning in it. Compare this state of things with what goes on in 
nature, resulting in the formation of winds. 

12. How does the heat of the sun reach the earth? Compare this 
process with that by which the air in a room is heated by the ordinary 
open fire. 

13. Which do you consider more suitable for winter wear, dark or 
light coloured clothes ? Give reasons for your answer. 

14. In which kind of tea-pot will the tea keep hot longer, a bright 
silver one or a black earthenware one ? Why ? 

15. Why do ladies sometimes screen their faces by holding a fan 
between themselves and the fire ? What does this teach about the way in 
which radiant heat passes through a space ? 



CHAPTER VII 
SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 

SOLUTION OF SOLIDS 

85. Soluble and insoluble solids. (a) Sugar. Place a piece of sugar 
in water ; note that it soon disappears, and gives a sweet taste to the 
whole of the water, so that in some way the sugar must have spread 
throughout the water. 

(b) Sand. Add sand to water, and stir it up with the water. Let 
the water stand for a short time, and notice that the sand sinks to the 
bottom. 

(c) Camphor. Stir up camphor with water. Notice that the camphor 





FIG. 52. How to use a round piece of blotting-paper for filtering. 

does not disappear ; it is insoluble in water. Shake up a small lump 
of camphor with some spirits of wine, in a small bottle. It gradually 
disappears, just as sugar does in water. 

(d) Stilphur. Shake up in a bottle flowers of sulphur with carbon 
bisulphide, and notice that it disappears. Be careful to beep the 
stopper in the bottle of carbon bisulphide^ and do not bring the bottle 
near a light. 

86. Eemoval of suspended substances by filtration. Fold a circular 
piece of clean white blotting-paper, or a filter-paper, in the manner shown 
in Fig. 52. Insert the folded paper into a glass funnel, and place the 
funnel in the neck of a flask. Make some water muddy by stirring mud 



76 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



into a tumbler of water, or by putting powdered charcoal into it. The 
mud or charcoal remains suspended in the water for a long time. 

Pour the muddy water carefully on to the filter-paper in the funnel, 
in the manner shown in Fig. 53, and observe that the water which 

drops through is quite 
clear. The mud is left 
on the paper. 

87. Non - removal of 
dissolved substances by 
filtration. Similarly, 
filter a solution of sugar 
or salt, and observe that 
the solution is unaltered 
by passing through the 
paper. 

What "soluble" 
and " solution " 
mean. When sugar 
is stirred up in a cup 
of tea, it disappears. 
By tasting the tea, it 
is possible to find out 
if much sugar has been 
put into the tea or not. 
Similarly, sugar gives 
a sweet taste to water 
and milk ; if salt is 
added instead, an en- 
tirely different taste is 
given to the liquid. 
Whenever a substance 

disappears in a liquid in this way, and yet can be recognised 
by suitable means everywhere in the liquid, it is said to dis- 
solve or form a solution, while the substances which disappear 
are said to be soluble. Washing-soda, borax, and saltpetre are 
all easily soluble in water. 

Substances insoluble in water. Many things, on the 
contrary, will not dissolve in water, and these are spoken of as 
insoluble. Sand, gravel, coal, camphor, are all instances of 
substances insoluble in water. 

But though camphor will not dissolve in water, yet it dis- 
appears when shaken up in spirits of wine. And as camphor is 




FIG. 53. How to pour a liquid into a filter paper 
in a funnel. 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 77 

soluble in spirits of wine, a solution of camphor in spirits of wine 
can be made. Shellac is another substance which will dissolve 
in spirits of wine and not in water ; such a solution, in fact, 
makes a varnish used for covering some kinds of furniture. 
Sulphur, again, though it will not dissolve in water, and only 
very little in spirits of wine, disappears very quickly if placed 
in the nauseous liquid called carbon bisulphide. Chalk will 
not dissolve in water, but it will dissolve in a weak acid, such, 
for instance, as vinegar. 

Substances held in suspension in water. Sub- 
stances which are insoluble in water will, if finely powdered and 
stirred up with water, often take a long time to settle ; that is, 
the fine particles remain suspended in the water for a long time. 
The lighter the particles are, the longer the time it takes for them 
to settle and for the water to become clear. If on a rainy day a 
glassful of muddy water is taken from the gutter, and then placed 
on one side, the particles can be watched settling to the bottom. 
Those substances which, like the mud, are spread throughout 
the water without being dissolved in it are said to be held in 
suspension. The rate at which these suspended particles settle 
to the bottom to form a sediment depends upon their density. 
Light particles take a long time, heavy particles only a short 
time to sink. 

Suspended substances can be removed by filter- 
ing. It is easy to separate suspended impurities from water. 
The process by which this is done is called filtration. Many 
substances are used through which to filter water containing 
particles in suspension. Chemists most commonly use paper 
which has not been glazed ; such paper is porous ; the holes 
through it are large enough to let water pass, but not large 
enough to let the suspended substances go through. In conse- 
quence, these particles are left on the paper in the funnel, and 
the water which trickles through is quite clear. It must be re- 
membered, however, that it is impossible to get rid of substances 
in solution by filtering the liquid. Dissolved material passes 
through the holes in the paper with the liquid in which it is 
held in solution. 

Other substances besides unglazed paper are used sometimes 
in filtering. Thus, often the water supply of a town is filtered 
through beds of sand. Household filters are made with pieces 



78 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

of charcoal for the water to trickle through, and in some others 
a particular kind of porous iron or porcelain is employed. 
Every filter requires to be cleaned frequently, Or it gets clogged 
with impurities from the water which has filtered through it. 

SOLUTION OF LIQUIDS 

88. Mixture of alcohol and water. Pour some water into a bottle and 
then some alcohol, 1 and shake them up together. Observe that the 
alcohol disappears in the water or dissolves in it. 

89. Liquids which do not mix. Shake up together some olive oil 
and water, and allow the mixture to stand for a short time. Notice that 

the liquids separate into two layers, the lighter being 
on the top. Which is the lighter ? 

90. Gas dissolved in water. Examine a bottle of soda- 
water. Notice that it appears clear and bright, and seems 
to have nothing dissolved in it. Uncork, or otherwise 
open it. Bubbles of gas escape (Fig. 54). A lighted 
taper held to the mouth of the bottle has its flame put out 
by the gas which is given off. 




Solution of one liquid in another. The 
commonest cases of solution are when solid sub- 
stances are dissolved in liquids. In addition to 
this, many liquids will dissolve in other liquids. 
Alcohol and glycerine are examples of liquids 
FIG. 54. Bub- which dissolve in water. When a liquid dissolves 
cl e< e from 6 a" 1 water > as alcohol and glycerine do, we say, 
bottle of aerat- in ordinary language, that the two liquids mix. 
the^cork r comes This is only another way of saying that they form 
out - a solution. When the amount of alcohol is greater 

than that of the water, it is very common to say 
that the alcohol has been diluted with water. 

Liquids insoluble in one another. If, however, oil, 
water, and mercury are shaken up together, and then left to 
stand for a time, they will be found to separate from one 
another and lie in different layers the mercury at the bottom, 
oil at the top, and water between the two (Figs. 55 and 56). 
Here, then, we have examples of liquids which do not dissolve 
in one another or do not mix. Oil and water will not mix, 
quicksilver and water will not mix, and so on. 

1 Ordinary methylated spirit will not do, as it forms a milkiness with 
water. If pure spirits of wine cannot be obtained, whisky or brandy 
will do. 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 



79 




FIG. 55. Liquids which do 
not mix. 



Some gases dissolve in 
liquids. When a bottle of soda- 
water is opened, bubbles of gas rise 
out of it. The gas has evidently been 
dissolved in the liquid. This is only 
one of many instances of gases which 
will dissolve in liquids. There is a 
large amount of this gas, which is 
known to chemists as carbon dioxide 
or carbonic acid gas, dissolved in soda- 
water. Many other gases dissolve in 
water ; the liquid sold by chemists as 
liquid ammonia is a solution of am- 
monia gas in water. 

Importance of air dissolved 

in water. Rain in falling through the air dissolves some of 
it in its passage to the earth. The air thus dissolved in the 
water serves an important purpose. Both animals and plants 
must have air to breathe. As is well known, some animals 

and plants live in water, and 
these depend upon the air which 
is dissolved in the water. When 
water is boiled, the dissolved 
air which it contains is driven 
out of it by the heat. 

OTHER SOLUTIONS 

91. Saturated solutions. Pro- 
cure a supply of alum (or of nitre) 
and powder it. Put some of the 
powdered solid into a flask and add 
water. Shake them up together 
for some time, and if all the pow- 
der dissolves add more and shake 
again. Continue this addition of 
the powder and the shaking until 
some powder remains undissolved, 
however much it is shaken. A 
cold saturated solution, that is, a 
solution containing as much of ihe 
solid as it will hold is procured. 

The powder which before 
Continue to add more 




FIG. 56. A funnel with a tap, for draw- 
ing off the liquids in it one after the other. 



Now warm the cold saturated solution, 
remained at the bottom of the flask dissolves. 



8o EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

alum, or nitre, and notice that a great deal must be added before you 
obtain a hot saturated solution. 

92. Formation of crystals. Place the hot saturated solution on one 
side to cool. As cooling proceeds, some of the alum or nitre separates out 
in clear, well-formed crystals, because as the solution cools it cannot 
dissolve so much alum as before. 

If time permit, make saturated solutions of salt, washing-soda, borax, 
and lime. 

93. Relative solubilities. Find the weight of a small evaporating 
basin. Into it, by means of a pipette, put 10 cubic centimetres of the satur- 
ated solution of alum or nitre previously made. Place the basin upon a 
sand-bath and gently heat the liquid, which will gradually disappear, 
leaving the solid behind in the basin. When the residue is quite dry, 
allow the basin to cool, and weigh it again. The increase in weight 
tells the amount of alum or nitre dissolved in 10 cubic centimetres of 
the saturated solution. 

Find out, in the same way, the amount of solid in 10 cubic centi- 
metres of each saturated solution prepared. 

Represent your results graphically as explained on p. 81. 

84. Solution in acids. Procure a lump of marble, and break it into 
small fragments, or powder some chalk (not blackboard chalk). Satisfy 
yourself it will dissolve neither in cold nor hot water. Pour a few drops 
of vinegar or weak hydrochloric acid upon some of the fragments in a 
test-tube. Observe the fizzing which begins ; place a lighted match at 
the mouth of the test-tube, the flame is put out. After a time the 
fragments of chalk or marble will have disappeared. 

Saturated solutions. Wh,en any given amount of water 
has dissolved as much of a solid as it can be made to, without 
warming or assisting it in any other way, it is said to be saturated. 
But though cold water, for instance, may be saturated with 
any particular solid, such as sugar, it can, if warmed, be made 
to dissolve more sugar. Though there are some exceptions, 
it may be regarded as the general rule that water and other 
liquids will dissolve more of a solid when they are warm than 
when they are cold. In some cases the amount of solid which 
will dissolve goes on increasing as the temperature of the water 
is increased. In general, therefore, the cooler the water the less 
of a solid will it dissolve. Now suppose warm water is given as 
much sugar, salt, alum, or any substance of this kind as it will 
hold, and is then cooled, what happens? It has to give up 
some of the substance, for it cannot hold so much as when it 
was warm. When tea has been made very sweet, some of the 
sugar is left on the bottom of the cup as the tea cools. This 
is because, though the tea was able to dissolve a certain 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 



Si 



amount of sugar when hot, it could 
not hold so much when cold, and 
therefore a little of it was deposited 
upon the bottom of the cup. 

Graphic Representation of 
Solubilities. The relative solu- 
bilities of different substances may 
be shown conveniently in a graphic 
manner. It has been found by 
experiment, for example, that alum, 
nitre, soda, and common salt, are 
dissolved in boiling water and in 
cold water to the extent shown in 
the following table : 



i oo parts 

of cold 

water 

dissolve 



14-5 parts . Alum 



30 
50 
36 



Nitre 
Soda 
Salt 



100 parts 
of boiling 

water 
dissolve 
300 parts 
200 
1 10 (about) 

37 



o 

03 



j 
* I 



Now, if on a piece of squared 
paper we arrange that one side of 
a square shall represent 10 parts 
of the substance, we can mark off 
lines of lengths proportional to the 
numbers shown in the above table, 
when we shall obtain a diagram 
like that shown in Fig. 57, which 
shows at a glance the relative solu- 
bilities of the different substances Q 
in cold and boiling water respec- Q 
tively. (j 

A change sometimes ac- 
companies solution. In all 
the instances of solution already 
examined, the solid has quietly dis- 
appeared in the liquid to form a clear solution but though 
some solids are quite insoluble in water and spirits of wine, 

EXP. HYG. G 







































































































































































































































































- 


- 






















































































































































































































WATER 


* 

^ 

vj 

^ 


UJ 

Qc 

K 

*>. 

^ 


^ k 
Q v| 

^ 

GO <o 



































































































































































82 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



they can be made to dissolve when treated with liquids called 
acids. Marble and chalk are instances of this. Fragments 
of either of these substances disappear neither in water nor in 
spirits of wine, but if they are acted upon with weak hydro- 
chloric acid, or a little vinegar, both of which liquids are acids, 
a brisk fizzing takes place, and the pieces of marble soon pass 
into solution. The fizzing means that a gas is being given off ; 
the truth of this statement is easily proved by putting a lighted 
taper to the mouth of the vessel in which the solution is taking 
place when the flame is extinguished. As will be fully seen in 
later lessons, this experiment forms a good example of what is 
called a chemical change, to distinguish it from those other 
cases which have been studied, called physical changes, where 
solution is brought about without an obvious alteration in the 
substance dissolved. 

EVAPORATION 

95. Evaporation assisted by heat. Put some water in an evaporating- 
basin placed upon sand in a shallow iron saucer, known as a " sand- 
bath," or upon a " water-bath " made by 
placing a shallow dish upon the top of a 
beaker of boiling water (Fig. 58). Warm it 
gently by means of a laboratory burner or spirit 
lamp. Notice that as the heating is continued 
the water in the basin gradually disappears or 
evaporates. 

Recall what you know of the drying of a wet 
road by evaporation. 

96. Cooling produced by evaporation. 
Sprinkle a few drops of (i) spirits of wine, 
(2) carbon bisulphide, (3) ether, on your hand 
in succession. Notice that the liquid soon 
disappears and its presence in the air can be 
detected by its smell. The rate at which the 
liquid evaporates is increased by waving the 
hand about. 

97. Difference between evaporation and boiling. Boil some water 
in a flask, and observe that, when boiling begins, bubbles of steam are 
formed everywhere throughout the liquid, and that the bubbles rise and 
burst at the top. 

Evaporation. If a saucer of water is left for a few days, it 
will disappear, or, as is generally said, dry up. The water can 
be made to disappear more quickly by gently heating it. When 
a solution containing salt or sugar is made to dry up in this 




FIG. 58. A simple water 
bath. 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 



way, the salt or sugar does not disappear, but remains in the 
saucer. The name given to this process of turning a liquid into 
a vapour is evaporation. The solid left behind is spoken of as 
a residue. 

Everyday examples of evaporation. In summer it is 
not long before a road becomes dry again after having been 
well watered by a water-cart. Wet clothes hung upon a line 
and exposed to the sun and air soon become quite dry. Streams 
and rivers, ponds and lakes, are shallower during the hot days 
of summer than they are in other months of the year. It is a 
common practice to expose shallow vessels of water in rooms 
which are warmed during winter by coke- or gas-stoves. From 




FIG. 59. One way in which evaporation is utilised. 

time to time such vessels have to be refilled, for the water quickly 
disappears and exists in an invisible form throughout the air of 
the room. Nearly everybody has observed the same process 
taking place when sitting still after some violent exertion. The 
perspiration, which after such exercise stands in drops over the 
face and body, soon disappears by passing into the air as 
vapour, and leaves the skin dry. The cooling of the body 
which is also noticed at the same time will have to be explained 
a little later. 

Bate of evaporation. Some days are better for drying 
clothes than others. A good " drying day," as the laundress 
calls it, is not only a warm day, but also one when, as well 
as this, there is a good breeze. Even when the day is warm, if 

G 2 



84 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

at the same time the air is still and damp, the wet clothes do 
not dry quickly. For the same reason a little spirit placed upon 
the hand dries up more quickly when the hand is moved about 
than when the hand is kept still. 

It is well known that a sponge can absorb a good deal of 
water, but soon takes up as much as it can hold, when it is said to 
be saturated. In much the same way a given amount of air 
can only hold a certain quantity of the invisible vapour into 
which liquids are changed by warming them. If the air near a 
liquid is quite still, it soon has as much vapour as it can hold, 
and evaporation from the liquid ceases. If, on the other hand, 
the air is continually moving, and fresh quantities of air are 
constantly being brought near the liquid, evaporation never 
ceases so long as any liquid is left. 

Coolness caused by evaporation. When a liquid is 
changed into vapour a certain amount of heat is used up. It 
does not matter whether the liquid evaporates or boils ; every 
gram of it requires a certain amount of heat before it becomes 
converted into vapour. In boiling, this heat is supplied by the 
flame or fire, and in evaporation it is taken from the objects in 
contact with the liquid. The faster the evaporation the more 
heat is absorbed in this way. When a liquid evaporates very 
rapidly, the cooling produced is very noticeable. So much heat 
may be absorbed in this way that, as illustrated by the experi- 
ment shown in Fig. 44, water can be frozen by the evaporation 
of ether in a vessel in contact with it. 

Quiet evaporation and boiling are not the same. 
It is very instructive to watch some vigorously boiling water in a 
flask or beaker, and compare it with the evaporation of a solution 
in an evaporating basin, where only a small flame, or no flame at 
all, is used. In the case of the solution being gently evaporated, 
all the vapour is formed at the surface of the liquid, and the 
process goes on quietly until no liquid is left in the basin. 

In the case of vigorously boiling water, bubbles of vapour 
are formed everywhere throughout the mass of the liquid. The 
bubbles can be seen at the bottom and the sides, and they rise 
from every point to the surface, each as it escapes there making 
a little noise. The sounds of the bursting bubbles added together 
make up the " singing " or " rattling " which is heard when 
water is briskly boiling in a flask or other vessel. 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 85 



DISTILLATION 

98. Condensation of water vapour from the air. Put some pieces of 
ice into a test-tube, or other glass vessel, which is clean and dry on the 
outside. In a very few minutes the outer surface of the vessel will become 
covered with moisture, owing to the condensation of water vapour from 
the air. 

If you cannot procure ice, put a little ether in a test-tube and make 
it evaporate quickly by blowing vigorously down a narrow tube on to 
the surface of the ether. As the air is cooled by the evaporation of the 
ether, the moisture in the air is given up and deposited on the outside 
of the test-tube in the form of minute drops ; in other words, the water 
vapour in the air is condensed. 

99. Distillation of Water. Obtain a glass retort and put in some 




FIG. 60.- A simple means of purifying water by distillation. 

ordinary tap-water coloured with ink, and in which some sand has been 
placed, and put it on a sand-bath, as shown in Fig. 60. Let the neck 
of the retort pass into the neck of a flask suitably supported over a 
basin of water. By means of a gas-burner boil the water in the retort, 
and keep the flask cool by continually pouring water on to it. Notice 
that the steam which passes over into the flask is condensed again into 
water, which is quite clear and tasteless. 

If a condenser, like the one shown in Fig. 61, is available, examine 
it, and use it to distil some dirty water in which salt has been dissolved. 
Taste the distilled water. 

100. Distillation of Beer. Take a test-tube, provided with a 
graduated piece of paper stuck inside along the length of the tube, as 
described in the experiment on p. 35, in explaining the principle of 
the lactometer. Load it with shot until it floats to a convenient mark 
on the scale in a sample of beer which has been allowed to get " flat." 
Indicate this mark in a suitable way. Now place some of the beer in 



86 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

a distilling retort, as in the last experiment, and, as in the case of water, 
distil over sufficient liquid to test with the loaded test-tube. It will be 
found that the distilled liquid has a lower density than the beer, for the 
test-tube floats deeper in the liquid. Read the division of the scale on a 
level with the surface of the liquid, and so compare its density with 
that of beer. 

Condensation. By heating, a liquid is changed into 
vapour. This change may take place slowly and gently, as 
in evaporation ; or quickly and vigorously, as in boiling. But 
by whichever process vapour is obtained, it can, by the reverse 
plan of cooling it, be reconverted into liquid. This change, 
from the state of vapour back again to the condition of liquid, 
is called condensation; the vapour is condensed to a liquid. 
Thus, a cold plate held close to the spout of a kettle from which 
steam is coming will cool the steam, condensing it into water, 
which will be seen trickling down the plate. 

Most people have noticed the condensation of vapour taking 
place at some time or other on a cold day. For instance, if the 
doors and windows of a room are kept tightly closed, and there 
is a good fire burning, the inside of the window panes soon 
becomes covered with moisture, which, forming drops, trickles 
down the glass and collects on the window frame as liquid 
water. The water must evidently come from the air in the 
room. 

The air outside a room is, in winter, much colder than that 
inside. This cools the glass of the windows very much, and 
consequently the air next to the cold surface itself becomes 
cooled, and then cannot hold so much vapour as when it is warm, 
and some of the vapour which can no longer be held by the air 
is changed into water. So that condensation is caused when 
air containing water vapour is cooled. 

Distillation. The change of liquids into vapours by heat- 
ing them, and the condensation of the vapour into liquid by 
cooling it, is employed in an important process called distillation. 
This plan is frequently made use of for purifying water and 
other liquids. Perhaps the most useful application of distillation 
is to obtain fresh water for drinking purposes from sea-water or 
other water not fit to drink. Large ships, carrying as they 
often do more than a thousand people, cannot take enough fresh 
water on board for the needs, throughout a long voyage, of so 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 87 

many persons. Instead of attempting this difficult task, it is 
the custom to change sea-water into fresh water by distillation. 
Ordinary water may be boiled in a flask or retort, the neck of 
which fits into a flask continually kept cold by pouring water 
upon it, as in Fig. 60. As the water boils it is converted into 
steam, and this steam is condensed again into water in the 
cooled flask. If some ink and salt were first added to the water 
in the retort, they would be left behind, and the water found in 
the flask would neither taste of the salt nor be coloured by the 
ink ; it would be purified from these by distillation. So that 




FIG. 61. Distillation with a glass condenser. 

all impurities which water contains are left behind in the retort, 
and the water obtained by condensing the vapour is pure. 

Distilling apparatus. A convenient apparatus for distil- 
ling a liquid is shown in Fig. 61. The water, or other liquid, to 
be distilled is placed in a retort which is put on a piece of wire 
gauze, or a sand-bath, and is then boiled. The retort is con- 
nected with an arrangement called a condenser. This consists, 
in the illustration, of a narrow glass tube surrounded by a wider 
one, having a short connecting tube at the side near each 
end. One of these short tubes is connected with the water- 
supply ; the other carries the waste water to a drain or sink. In 
this way a stream of water can be made to circulate through the 
wider tube outside the inner narrow one, which it consequently 
keeps cool. A second flask is placed at the free end of the long 



88 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

narrow tube to catch the pure water as it is condensed. When 
water is boiled in the retort, steam passes along the inner narrow 
tube, and is cooled and condensed by the water in the outer 
and larger tube, and the drops of water formed pass on into 
the second flask. The water in this flask is thus the condensed 
steam only ; for if the apparatus be properly constructed none 
of the water which flows around the inner tube can get into the 
receiving flask. The stills used for obtaining fresh water 




FIG. 62. A large metal "still." The vapour of the liquid boiling in B passes 
through the neck A and the spiral tube in D. The spiral is surrounded with cold 
water, so the vapour in it is condensed, and trickles in drops of liquid into o. 

from sea-water are constructed on exactly the same plan. 
All that is wanted is a vessel to boil the water in, and an 
arrangement for condensing the steam and collecting the drops 
of water formed. An arrangement for distilling large quantities 
of water is shown in Fig. 62. 



SUMMARY. 

Solution is the process by which some substances, when placed in 
water or other liquids, disappear, and their particles spread through the 
entire liquid. A substance is said to be soluble in a liquid when it 
disappears in it, forming a solution. Sugar, salt, and soda are soluble 
in water. 

A substance which will not dissolve in a liquid is said to be insoluble. 
Sand, camphor, and sulphur are insoluble in water. Substances 
insoluble in water often dissolve in other liquids. Camphor is soluble 
in spirits of wine ; sulphur dissolves in carbon bisulphide. 



vii SOLUTION, EVAPORATION, DISTILLATION 89 



Insoluble substances may be spread throughout a liquid, that is, 
held in suspension in it. Suspended impurities can be got rid of 
by filtering. 

Some liquids mix with or dissolve in other liquids. Whisky, brandy, 
and vinegar dissolve in water. Some liquids do not mix or are insoluble 
in one another. Oil, water, and mercury do not mix. 

Some gases are soluble in liquids. Carbon dioxide and ammonia 
dissolve in water. 

Evaporation is the process of changing a liquid into a vapour by 
heat. Water and other liquids are only converted into vapour by 
taking up heat or, evaporation causes cooling. Some liquids evaporate 
more quickly than others at the same temperature. 

Evaporation takes place more rapidly when the air above the liquid 
is in motion. 

Boiling and quiet evaporation are not the same. In boiling, vapour 
is formed everywhere throughout the liquid ; in quiet evaporation, only 
at the surface. 

Condensation is the process by which vapours, such as steam, are 
reconverted into liquids by cooling. 

Distillation consists in first converting a liquid into a vapour by 
boiling, and then reconverting the vapour into liquid by condensation. 
Distillation is a means of getting ptire (distilled) water from water 
having dissolved impurities in it. Rain water is really distilled water. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER VII. 

1. Distinguish between soluble and insoluble substances. Which of 
the following are soluble in water ? Sand, sugar, table-salt, camphor, 
sealing-wax, baking-powder, and coal. 

2. Some solids which do not dissolve in water are soluble in other 
liquids. Give all the instances of this with which you are acquainted. 

3. What class of impurities can be removed from water by filtering ? 
Explain clearly how you would proceed to get clear water from muddy 
water. 

4. Describe fully how pure water can be obtained from sea-water. 

5. Do gases dissolve in water ? If you think they do, name two or 
three soluble gases. 

6. What exactly is meant by saying that some liquids do not mix ? 
Mention examples of liquids which do not mix, and also of liquids 
which do mix. 

7. Which substance dissolves more readily in water, salt or sugar? 
Explain fully how you would show what you say to be true by an 
experiment. 

8. How is it that clothes placed on a line to dry are ready to be 
taken in sooner on some days than others? What sort of day does 
the laundress consider a good drying day ? 

9. In both quiet evaporation and boiling a liquid is converted into 
vapour. What differences are there between the two processes ? 

10. The cooling produced by evaporation is sometimes enough to 
cause water to freeze. Describe an experiment to demonstrate this fact. 



90 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. vn 



n. What is meant by condensation? Name two or three familiar 
instances of the condensation of water vapour. 

12. Explain the terms : Distillation, "held in suspension," filtering, 
and insoluble. 

13. You are given a mixture of sand and salt. Explain clearly how 
you would separate the two substances. 

14. Gunpowder is a mixture of nitre, sulphur, and charcoal. If you 
were given some gunpowder, how could you get specimens of each of 
the three things from it ? 



CHAPTER VIII 
THE ATMOSPHERE 



PRESSURE OF THE ATMOSPHERE 

101. " Empty" vessels contain air. Try to force an empty bottle, 
held upright with its mouth downwards, into a vessel of water. When 
you leave go, the bottle jumps up again. There is something in it which 
acts like a spring. Tilt an empty bottle, held mouth downwards, in a 
trough of water, and notice the bubbles of air which pass up as the 
water enters the bottle. 

102. Forcing air from an " empty " bottle. Take a funnel with a 
narrow neck, and fit it firmly into a bottle by means of an india-rubber 
stopper with two holes in it. Through 

the second hole pass a short piece 
of glass tubing bent at right angles 
(Fig. 63). 

Place a finger over the open end of 
the tube, pour water into the funnel, 
and notice that, so long as you keep 
your finger upon the end of the glass 
tube, the water is prevented from get- 
ting into the bottle by something air 
already there (Fig. 63). Take your 
finger away. The water now runs into 
the bottle, and air escapes from the 
tube. The escaping air may be felt, or 
its effect upon a lighted match may be 
seen. 

103. Air has weight. (a) The fol- 
lowing experiment needs to be carefully 
done with a good balance in order to be 
successful. Obtain two large flasks. Fit 
one with a closely-fitting india-rubber 

stopper, having a hole in it through which a short piece of glass tubing 
passes. Upon an india-rubber tube attached to the glass tube a clip is 
fastened. Hang the flasks over the two pans of the balance, the fitted 
one having the stopper and tubing with it, and counterpoise them. 




FIG. 63. The bottle only contains 
air, but the water will not run 
in until the finger is taken from 
the tube, and then the air can be 
felt coming out. 



9 2 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 




FIG. 64. Use of a 
pipette. 



Now insert a short glass mouthpiece in the india-rubber, open the 
clip, and suck air out of the stoppered flask, without touching the flask. 
Fasten the clip while you are sucking out the air. 
Take out the mouthpiece, and you will find that 
the flasks no longer counterpoise, the one from 
which air has been withdrawn being lighter than 
before. Admit air by opening the clip, and it 
will be found that the flasks again counterpoise 
one another. 

(b) If a metal bottle with a tap is available, 
together with an air-pump, this experiment of 
showing that air has weight may be repeated with 
advantage. It is impossible to suck out all the air ; 
but, by means of the pump and a metal bottle, 
there is no difficulty in demonstrating the fact 
with ease. 

(c) A third way to show that air has weight is 
as follows : Into a flask fitted with an india- 
rubber stopper perforated by a glass tube, as 
described under (a) of this section, pour a little 
water and counterpoise the flask, water, stopper, 
and clip, upon a balance. Now place the flask 
upon a sand-bath, open the clip, and boil the 
water. So soon as steam issues from the tube, 

close the clip, remove the flask, and allow it to cool. Place it upon 
the scale pan, and by trial satisfy yourself that the flask is much 
lighter than before. 

The steam drove the air out of the flask, and the flask is con- 
sequently lighter. It must be remembered, however, that part of 
the loss of weight is due to the escape of a little steam. 

104. Warm air is lighter than colder air. Round the neck of the 
flask, fitted with a stopper, like that used in the last experiment, 
stick a piece of gummed paper 
to show how far the stopper 
goes in. Push the stopper 
down into the flask to the 
mark, and find the weight of the 
closed flask ; at the same time 
read the temperature of the air. 

Now plunge the flask, after 
taking out the stopper, into 
hot water in a large basin, and 
by means of a thermometer find 
the temperature of the water in 
the basin after the flask has 
been in it five minutes, and at 
the moment of taking the tem- 
perature insert the stopper. 
Push the stopper down to the mark, dry the flask, and place it on one side 
to cool. Weigh the flask when cold. It will be lighter than before. 




FIG. 65. Section of a pair of bellows to show 
the action of the valve. 



VIII 



THE ATMOSPHERE 



93 



105. Experiments depending upon air pressure. (a) Pipette. 
Dip a long tube a pipette will do into water. Place your finger over 
the top and lift the tube out of the water. Notice that 
the water does not run out of the tube although the 
bottom is open (Fig. 64). 

(6) Suction dependent upon air pressure. Fit a one- 
holed stopper into a flask of water. Push a piece of 
glass tubing through the stopper. Try to suck up the 
water (Fig. 66). You cannot, unless you loosen the 
stopper so as to let the pressure of the air force the 
water up the tube. 

(c) Action of bellows. Procure a pair of bellows. 
Notice that the valve at the bottom only opens inwards. 
Open the bellows, and observe that the valve is pushed 

up a little as the air 
enters (Fig. 65). Close 
the bellows ; the valve is 
pushed down ; ; 
the air cannot escape 
any other way, it is 
forced through the noz- 
zle. 

(d] Upward pressure 
of air. Take a tumbler 
or cylinder with ground 
edges and completely fill 
it with water. Place a 
piece of card or stout 
writing paper across the 
top and invert the ves- 
sel. If the air has been 
carefully kept from en- 
tering the tumbler, the 
water does not run out (Fig. 68). Think what keeps 




FIG. 66. The water in the flask 
cannot he sucked out while the 
cork is tight. 



the paper in its place. 

106. Principle of the barometer. Tie a short piece 
of thick india-rubber tubing upon the open end of a 
barometer tube. Tie the free end of the tubing to a 
glass tube about six inches long, open at both ends. 
Rest the barometer tube with its closed end downwards, 
and pour mercury into it (being careful to remove all 
air bubbles) until the liquid reaches the short tube. 
Then fix the arrangement upright as in Fig. 67. 

The air pressing upon the surface of the mercury in 
the short open arm of the U' tuue balances a long column 
of mercury in the closed arm. 



n 



FIG. 67. A con- 
venient form of 
barometer. 



There is air all round us. Very few observations are 
required to convince any one that there is air around all objects 



94 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



on the earth's surface. It can be felt by any one who has to 
walk against the wind. The effects of air in motion can be 
seen by watching the branches and leaves of trees moving 
about in a high wind ; and air in motion is usefully employed 
in driving windmills, and in blowing sailing ships across the 
ocean. At times the air moves with sufficient force to blow 
clown houses, uproot trees, and do other damage. Even on 
the calmest day the air can be felt by waving the hand about 
or by using a fan. 

What is usually called an " empty " bottle is really one full of 
air. If the bottle is dipped under water and tilted, the air can 
at once be seen bubbling through the water so as to make room 
for water to enter the bottle. Or, if water is allowed to run 
into the bottle through a funnel passing through a cork, the 
air can be felt as it escapes from a hole in the cork. A similar 
and more familiar instance of the presence of air is obtained by 
using a pair of bellows. 

Air has weight. Like every other thing about the 
existence of which we are aware by means of our senses, the 
air has weight. Substances are sometimes spoken of as being 
as light as air, but there are many gases known which are 
much lighter than air. A good example of a very light gas is 
the one called coal-gas, which is burnt in our houses. But 
compared with water, for example, air is very light. A cubic 
foot of air only has a weight of a little more than an ounce, 
whereas a cubic foot of water weighs a thousand ounces. 
Water is, in fact, about eight hundred times heavier than an 
equal bulk of air. To find the weight of the air in a flask, the 
flask must be first weighed full of air, and then when the 
air has been removed, which can be done with the help of an 
air-pump. The difference between the two weighings shows 
the weight of the amount of air necessary to fill the flask at the 
temperature of the room at the time of the experiment. 

As air is warmed it becomes lighter. It has already 
been learnt that air expands as it is warmed. That is to say, a 
given weight of air occupies a larger and larger volume as it 
gets warmer and warmer. This statement must be thoroughly 
understood ; supposing a cubic foot of air at the temperature 
of the room weighs one ounce ; if that air is heated to, say, the 
temperature of boiling water, being allowed to expand freely 



VIII 



THE ATMOSPHERE 



95 




FIG. 68. The paper does not fall off 
though the glass is full of water. 



the whole time, it will at the higher temperature occupy a 

much larger volume. Suppose, for the sake of example, that it 

becomes at the temperature of 

boiling water a cubic foot and a 

third. There is the same weight 

of air in the small volume at the 

lower temperature and the larger 

volume at the higher temperature ; 

that is to say, a cubic foot of air 

at the higher temperature will 

weigh considerably less than the 

cubic foot of air at the lower 

temperature. 

This fact is of the greatest im- 
portance in ventilation. The air of 
dwelling-rooms becomes warm and 
impure at the same time ; the im- 
pure air which has to be got rid of is found consequently at the 
highest parts of the room, and generally some means for its 
escape into the outer air is arranged near the 
ceiling of such a room. 

Air exerts pressure. Everything 
which has weight can exert pressure. The 
pressure depends first of all upon the density 
of a thing. For instance, if a piece of iron 
is carried upon the shoulder, it presses 
down more than a piece of wood of the same 
size. But the pressure also depends, of 
course, upon the amount of material which 
is borne. Thus, a sack of wool borne upon 
the head would exert more pressure than 
an iron nail. It is easy to understand, 
then, that though the air is so light com- 
pared with other substances, a large quan- 
tity of it would be very heavy, and would 
exert a very great pressure. 

Now, the air extends upwards from the surface of the earth 
for many miles ; and in consequence of this it presses very 
heavily upon everything. The reason why a leathern sucker is 
difficult to pull off an object upon which it has been placed is 




FIG. 69. The sucker 
cannot be pulled off 
easily, because the 
air is pressing on 
the top of it, but not 
on the lower side. 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



that the air is pressing upon the outside of the sucker but 

not upon the inside (Fig. 69). 

When a liquid is drunk through a tube, the vessel containing 
the liquid must be open to the air or else no liquid 
can be obtained. This can be seen by examining 
a baby's feeding-bottle. If the stopper of the bottle 
is screwed in tightly, and there is no open hole in 
it, the baby cannot get his food, however hard he 
sucks. 

The pressure of air is not only downwards, but 
upwards and sideways ; in fact, in all directions. 
If the pressure were only exerted downwards, then 
a sucker could easily be pulled off an object on 
which it is fixed by turning the object upside down 
or sideways. But the sucker cannot be pulled off" 
any more easily whatever way it is turned. 

Though our bodies are pressed upon by the whole 
weight of the air above us, we do not feel it. Why 
is this ? The lungs, which fill up a large part of 
our chest space, are filled out with air, and this air 
is in free communication with the atmosphere 
through our throat and nostrils. The result is that 
the air in the lungs presses them outwards from 
the inside just as much as the atmosphere presses 
the chest inwards from the outside, and so we feel 
no inconvenience. 

The barometer and its use. It is very 
important to be able to determine how much the 
air presses upon things at the earth's surface. The 

Fic-70.- A com- instrument shown in Fig. 70 enables this to be done. 
"^ho^Lr? The top of the long tube is sealed, so that the air 

meter. The cannot press upon the mercury in it, but the small 
r" tube is open, and the air can therefore press upon 



able to support In an instrument like that shown in Fig. 70, and 
merc C uryTn n thl known as a barometer, a column of mercury is 
long tube. supported by some means which is not at first 
plain. If there were nothing pressing upon the 
mercury in the short tube, the mercury would sink to the 
same level in both tubes, for liquids, when free to move, always 



THE ATMOSPHERE 97 



find their own level. If a hole were made in the closed end 
of the tube, this would immediately happen. There should 
be no difficulty in understanding that the long column of 
mercury is kept in its position by the downward force of the 
weight of the atmosphere pressing upon the surface of the 
mercury in the short open tube. The weight of the column 
of mercury, and the weight of a column of the atmosphere 
of the same size through, or of the same area, is exactly 
the same. Both the column of mercury and the column of 
air must be reckoned from the level of the mercury in the 
short stem of the barometer shown in Fig. 70 the mercury 
column to the top in the long tube ; the air to its upper 
limit, which is at a great distance from the surface of the earth. 
For an instrument of this kind to be accurate, great care has 
to be taken that no air enters the space at the top of the long 
tube. If air does enter, it will press upon the surface of the 
mercury in the long tube, and the height of the mercury will 
be less than thirty inches. In such a case, instead of measuring 
the whole pressure of the atmosphere, what we should really 
be measuring would be the difference between the pressure 
of the whole atmosphere and that of the air enclosed in the 
longer tube. In a properly constructed barometer, therefore, 
there is nothing above the mercury in the longer tube except 
a little mercury vapour. 

MOISTURE IN THE AIR 

STRONG SULPHURIC ACID SHOULD BE HANDLED WITH GREAT 
CARE. 

107. The water in air. Repeat the experiments on condensation 
on p. 85. 

108. Moisture taken from the air by calcium chloride. Place some 
lumps of dry white calcium chloride in a basin, and find the weight of 
the basin and its contents. Expose the calcium chloride to the air for 
two or three hours. Notice the solid has disappeared, and a liquid is 
present in its place. Find the weight of the basin and liquid ; you will 
find it greater than before. The increase shows the weight of the 
water taken out of the atmosphere by the calcium chloride. 

109. Moisture taken from the air by sulphuric acid. Repeat the last 
experiment, substituting a small wide-mouthed bottle for the basin, and 
strong sulphuric acid for the calcium chloride. Leave the acid exposed 
for a day, and, as before, notice the increase of weight. Weigh again 
after a second day's exposure, and notice the further increase of weight. 

110. Water in the air due to evaporation. (a) Put some water in 
EX P. HYG. H 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



an evaporating-basin. Determine the weight of the basin and water. 
Place the basin, with the water in it, in an exposed position free from 
dust. Determine its weight every day for a week by weighing. Notice 
that the weight decreases daily. 

(b) Repeat the experiment, using a roll of wet flannel instead of the 
basin of water. 




SULPHURIC 
ACID 



SULPHURIC ACID 

AND MOISTURE FROM 

THE AIB 



There is always water vapour in the air. Since 
evaporation is always going on from every surface of water, 
whether it be that of sea, lake, or river, there must always be 
some water vapour present in the air. The amount on hot days 
is greater than on cold ones, because the warmer the air 
the larger the amount of moisture it can take up. For this 
reason clothes usually dry more quickly on hot than on cold 

days. When describing 
condensation, some of the 
ways in which the presence 
of this water vapour can 
be shown were explained. 
Whenever a cold surface 
comes into contact with 
warm air, the water vapour 
which the air contains is 

FIG. 71. When sulphuric acid is exposed to deposited in the form of 
the air for a few days, it absorbs so much . ., . 
moisture that a rise of level is produced. Visible moisture. 

Some substances 

take water vapour out of the air. If the salt on the 
dinner-table is examined from time to time, it is noticed that 
on some days it is moist, on others quite dry. Some persons 
hang up a piece of seaweed outside their houses, and observe 
that while on some days it is stiff and dry, on others it is 
moist and lirnp. The difference in the dampness of the salt or 
the seaweed on different days depends upon the amount of 
moisture obtained by them from the air. 

Another simple experiment may be made to show the power 
some substances have of absorbing moisture from the air ; 
and, of course, it also proves that there is really water vapour 
in the atmosphere. Calcium chloride and strong sulphuric acid 
(oil of vitriol) both have this power of taking up moisture. 
Calcium chloride, in the form in which it is generally used in 
the laboratory, is a white solid. If a lump of it is placed in an 



Viii THE ATMOSPHERE 99 

evaporating-basin, and left freely exposed to the air for an hour 
or two, it is found on examining the contents of the basin after 
this time that, in the place of the dry white solid lump taken 
from the bottle, there is some liquid only to be found. This 
liquid is the water which has been absorbed from the air and 
has dissolved the lump of calcium chloride. 

If the basin and dry calcium chloride are carefully weighed 
before exposing to the air, and the basin and liquid are again 
weighed after all the solid has disappeared, it will be found that 
the liquid weighs more than the calcium chloride which v^las used. 
In fact, the difference in the two weighings shows the weight of 
the water which the solid has taken out of the air. 

The water vapour in the air sometimes becomes 
visible. One instance of this has been already mentioned. 
When a person breathes on a cold frosty day, the moisture in 
his breath becomes condensed and visible as a cloud of mist 
in the air in front of his mouth. 

Whenever the air is cooled sufficiently, there is a condensation 
of water vapour, and the drops of water thus formed build up 
one of the following forms of condensed water vapour : 

(a) Mists and fogs. (if) Snow, hail, and hoar-frost. 
() Clouds. (e) Dew. 

(c) Rain. 

Mists, fogs, and clouds are very much alike, and all of them 
consist of small droplets of water condensed from the air. When 
a number of these droplets run together, on account of further 
cooling, drops of rain are produced. When the temperature is 
below the freezing point of water, hoar-frost and snow are formed 
instead of mist and cloud from the moisture in the air. You 
have probably noticed frost patterns upon window-panes in the 
winter. The patterns consist of frozen moisture from the air. 

Effects of the water vapour in the air. It is im- 
portant for some purposes that the exact amount of water 
vapour in the air should be known. For instance, the 
u dryness " or " wetness " of the air has a very great influence 
upon health. Some persons are unable to keep in good health 
in a damp atmosphere. For this, and other reasons, it is often 
necessary to find out exactly how much water vapour the air 
contains. But it must not be supposed from this statement that 

H 2 



00 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



the actual quantity of such moisture in the air decides whether 
the air is damp or dry. Air which feels damp may really only 
contain a small amount of vapour, and perhaps very much less 
than air which feels dry. Air feels dry when it contains con- 
siderably less water vapour than it is capable of holding. Damp 
air has as much, or nearly as much, water vapour as it can 
possibly take up. 

AMOUNT OF MOISTURE IN AIR 

111. Determination of proportion of moisture in air. Obtain a piece 
of glass tubing about | inch diameter and about 10 inches long. Fit a 
good cork into each end, and push through each a piece of narrow glass 




FIG. 72. Air is being drawn through the horizontal tube, which contains 
calcium chloride to absorb the moisture in the air. 



tubing. Fill the tube with pieces of calcium chloride, and weigh the 
whole. Support the tube in the clamp of a retort-stand, and connect 
one end by means of an india-rubber tube to an aspirator. Allow the 
water slowly to run out of the aspirator, when air will pass over the 
calcium chloride in the tube. Measure the water which runs from the 
aspirator, and so determine the volume of air which passes through the 
tube. At the end of the experiment, again weigh the tube and calcium 
chloride, and so find the increase in weight. 

112. Rise of water in salt and sugar. Stand a lump of sugar and a 
lump of salt in a saucer containing a little ink and water. Notice that 
the liquid rises up the solids. 

113. Rise of water in threads. Place the corner of a dry handker- 



VIII 



THE ATMOSPHERE 



101 



chief in a glass of water. Notice the rise of the water along the threads 
of the handkerchief, which in time becomes wet over a large part. 

114. Construction of a hygrometer. Obtain two precisely similar 
unmounted thermometers and suspend them from a suitable support, 
such as the ring of a retort-stand (Fig. 73). Cover the bulb of one of 
the thermometers with a square of muslin tied up round it to form a 
bag. The muslin is best tied just above the bulb by a piece of thread. 
To this piece of thread attach several other long pieces of thread, and 
let them dip into a glass of water. When the muslin has got thoroughly 
damp, compare the readings of the 
two thermometers. Notice that the 
temperature recorded by the one with 
the wet muslin round it is lower than 
that shown by the other. 

The two thermometers used in this 
way form what is known as a hygro- 
meter, or a wet- and dry-bulb thermo- 
meter. 

The wet- and dry - bulb 
thermometers. Instruments 
which are used to measure the 
amount of water vapour in the air 
are called hygrometers, and the 
apparatus shown in Fig. 72 is a 
chemical hygrometer. There are 
many different kinds of hygro- 
meters, but only one other form 
need be described here. 

A kind of hygrometer which is 
in very common use is shown in 

Fig. 74. It consists of two exactly similar thermometers 
which are usually fixed side by side on a suitable frame. One 
thermometer, however, has its bulb covered with a little 
muslin bag, from which hang several cotton threads. These 
threads dip into a vessel of water. This is called the wet- 
bulb thermometer. The other, which only differs from the 
wet-bulb thermometer in having no wet muslin round it, is the 
dry-bulb thermometer. 

This hygrometer depends for its use upon two facts which 
have already been stated. The first is, that when liquid water 
is changed into water vapour it must take up heat in doing so. 
The other fact is, that the quantity of water vapour which air 
can take up depends upon the amount it already contains. 




FIG. 73. Wet- and dry-bulb 
thermometers. 



102 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



Now let us see how these facts are utilised in the instrument. 
When the cotton threads hanging from the muslin bag, sur- 
rounding the bulb of one thermometer, dip into the vessel of 
water, they soon become wet all the way up to the bag. After 
a moment or two the bag itself gets wet, and so long as the 
threads are hanging in the water the bag 
remains wet. 

But, as you also know, evaporation will be- 
gin to take place from the muslin bag so soon 
as it is wet The heat necessary for the change 
of the water into water vapour is taken from 
the bulb of the thermometer inside the bag, 
and the bulb and quicksilver in it consequently 
get cooler. This causes the height of the 
quicksilver in the stem of the thermometer to 
fall ; in other words, the temperature recorded 
by the thermometer is lower. The more water 
which is changed into vapour at the surface of 
the bag, the more heat is taken from the bulb 
of the thermometer, and the lower is the tem- 
perature shown. This goes on until the air 
round the muslin bag can take up no more 
moisture. 

If, therefore, the air is dry to start with, the 
water on the muslin bag evaporates quickly, 
and the temperature of the wet-bulb thermo- 
meter consequently is much lower than that 
of the other. But the dry-bulb thermometer 
gives the temperature of the air, and so we 
FIG. 74. A hygro- see that the drier the air to start with, the 
whethe? r theaTr n 5 greater is the difference in the readings of the 
dry or moist. two thermometers. It is the difference in 

the readings of these thermometers which is 
noticed and enables the observer to tell whether the air is dry 
or damp. 

Hygrometers of this kind are frequently kept in cotton mills 
and other factories to indicate whether the air is in a proper 
condition of dampness or dryness. 




THE ATMOSPHERE 103 



SUMMARY. 

The air around us can be felt when the wind is blowing ; the results 
of its movement can be seen in the swaying branches of trees, or when 
trees are uprooted by the wind. 

The weight of air can be determined by weighing a tightly closed 
bottle full of air, and again after all the air has been pumped out. 

The pressure of the air is due to its weight ; its existence is demon- 
strated by using either a sucker or a squirt. 

When air is removed by suction from the inside of a tube which 
is dipping in water, the pressure of the air forces the liquid up the 
tube. 

A barometer is an instrument for measuring the pressure of the air. 
The principle of its action is that a column of mercury in a tube con- 
taining no air is balanced by the pressure of the atmosphere outside the 
tube. 

Warm air is lighter, bulk for bulk, than cold air. 

There is always water vapour in the air, due to the continual evapora- 
tion going on from every exposed surface of water. 

Some substances, like calcium chloride and sulphuric acid, absorb 
moisture from the air. This fact makes it possible to ascertain how 
much water vapour has been taken out of a quantity of air. 

Fogs, clouds, rain, snow, hail, &c., are formed by -the condensation 
of the water vapour of the atmosphere. 

Hygrometers are instruments for measuring the amount of water 
vapour in the air. The chemical hygrometer depends upon the absorp- 
tive power of calcium chloride or sulphuric acid for water vapour. 
The wet- and dry -bulb thermometer consists of two similar thermometers. 
The bulb of one is covered with a muslin bag from which hang threads 
that dip into water. The muslin thus becomes wet, and the evaporation 
cools the thermometer bulb in the bag, lowering the reading of this 
thermometer. The difference in the readings of the thermometers is 
great when the air is dry, and small when the air has much water 
vapour in it. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER VIII. 

1. Why cannot a baby get his food from a feeding-bottle, if the 
stopper contains no hole and is tightly screwed down ? 

2. Describe an experiment to demonstrate that air has weight. 
What is about the weight of sixteen cubic feet of air ? 

3. Describe and draw some common instrument that depends for its 
efficacy on the pressure of the air. 

4. What is a barometer used for ? Explain how you would make a 
simple barometer. 

5. What would happen if a hole were made in the top of a barometer? 
Explain clearly how the reading of a barometer would be affected, if, 
during its construction, some air got into the closed tube above the 
mercury. 



104 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. vm 

6. Describe an experiment to prove that warm air is lighter, bulk for 
bulk, than cold air. 

7. Some strong oil of vitriol is left exposed to the air of a room, and, 
after a time, it is found that the glass containing the acid has more 
liquid in it than at first. Why is this ? 

8. How is it that the windows of a railway carriage get covered with 
moisture if they are closed for some time during a journey on a winter's 
day? 

9. Give a short history of the frost figures often found upon one's 
bedroom windows on getting up on a winter's morning. 

10. How is it that the air we breathe sometimes feels dry and some- 
times damp ? 

11. What is a hygrometer ? Explain as fully as you can the wet- and 
dry-bulb thermometer, and state what it is used to measure. 

12. Omnibus horses sometimes give off from their bodies quite a 
cloud of steam. When should you expect to see this happen, and what 
is the cause of it ? 

13. Explain the trick of keeping the water in a full tumbler held 
upside down, by means of a sheet of stout paper. 



CHAPTER IX 



BURNING AND RUSTING 

RUSTING OF IEON 

115. Increase of weight when magnesium is burnt. Weigh a 

crucible and its lid with a piece of magnesium, which, folded lightly, 
is placed in the crucible. Heat it strongly in a burner, taking care 
to let no fumes escape (Fig. 75). To do this, keep on the lid, and only 
raise it a little when the flame is 
removed. The magnesium is seen 
to burn brightly in places, but, if 
care is taken, no fumes are lost. 
When finished, the whole mass 
should be in the form of a white 
powder. Allow to cool, and weigh 
the crucible with the lid and pow- 
der. Subtract the weight of the 
crucible and lid to find the weight 
of the powder. The powder will 
almost certainly be found to weigh 
more than the original piece of 
metal. 

116. Increase of weight when 
iron rusts. Carefully weigh a 
watch-glass with some iron filings 
or tacks in it. Because iron rusts 
best when damp, add a few drops 
of water to the iron in the watch- 
glass, and allow it to stand for a day or two. At the end of this time 
warm the watch-glass gently, so as to evaporate any water left. When 
the rusty iron is quite dry, weigh the watch-glass and its contents 
again. Its weight will be found to be more after the rusting has taken 
place ; evidently, therefore, the iron in getting rusty has gained in weight. 

117. Air absorbed during rusting. Place some iron filings in 
a muslin bag and tie the bag to a piece of glass rod. Moisten well, and 
place it in a bottle of air inverted over water. If necessary, put something 
on the bottle to keep it upright (Fig. 76). Examine after a few days. It 




FIG. 75. How to heat magnesium 
powder or ribbon in a crucible. 



io6 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



will be seen that the water has risen in the bottle, showing that some 
part of the atmosphere has been abstracted by the iron in rusting. 

118. Alteration of air when iron rusts in it. Place your hand or a 
card tightly under the mouth of the jar so as to allow no water to 
escape ; set the jar upright, and plunge a burning taper into it. Notke 
ih?t the flame is extinguished ; do not throw away the water. 

Effects of heating metals in air. Some of the effects of 
heat upon substances have already been observed and described. 
It has been seen that, by heat, solids may be melted into 

liquids, and liquids con- 
verted into vapours. We 
now come to another kind 
of effect produced when 
substances are strongly 
heated in the air. If a piece 
of platinum wire or platinum 
foil is held in the smokeless 
flame of a laboratory burner, 
^_ it becomes red-hot ; but 
ii^ when it is taken out of the 
H| flame it quickly resumes its 
^ ordinary colour, and no 
change can be seen to 
have taken place. But, if a 
piece of magnesium wire is 
held in a flame, it catches 
fire and burns away bril- 
liantly, leaving a white ash. Platinum and magnesium thus 
behave very differently when heated. Many metals, like iron, 
copper, and lead, become covered with a film or tarnish when 
they are heated in the air, but if they are heated in closed tubes 
without air they do not change in this way. It thus seems that 
the tarnish is due to the absorption of something from the air. 

But if something is taken from the air when a metal tarnishes, 
or when a metal like magnesium burns, the tarnished metal, or 
the ashes of the magnesium, should weigh more than the 
original substance. Observations show that this is actually the 
case. As air seems responsible for the effects described, it is 
evidently well worth investigation. 
Chemical properties of air. It is necessary carefully to 




FIG. 76. As the iron filings in the muslin 
bag become rusty, they use up part of the 
air in the bottle. 



IX BURNING AND RUSTING 107 

consider the changes which different substances undergo when 
exposed to the atmosphere. It is best to begin with those cases 
which appear to be simplest. Every one has noticed that when 
iron is exposed to damp air it becomes rusty. Does the iron lose 
or give up something when it rusts ? Or, does it, on the contrary, 
take up or gain something? These questions can be best 
answered by properly arranged experiments. 

Iron gains in weight during rusting. If a known 
weight of iron is allowed to rust by contact with damp air, you 
can easily show by weighing it after the rusting has taken place 
that it has increased in weight. The result of this experiment 
is very important. If the weighings are carefully made, the iron 
is always found to gain in weight when it rusts. 

What causes the gain in weight? The substance 
causing the increase of weight, when damp iron filings rust, 
could come from the water, or moisture, on the iron, or from the 
air. If the iron is allowed to rust in a closed space, and the 
experiment is so arranged that if anything is taken from the air 
the loss can be detected, it can be decided whether the water 
or the air causes the rusting. Fig. 76 shows a convenient 
way of doing this. Some iron filings are placed loosely in a 
muslin bag, and the bag is tied to a piece of glass rod. The 
bag of filings is well moistened, and arranged in a bottle of air 
inverted over water in a basin, in the manner shown by the 
illustration. The apparatus is then left undisturbed for a day 
or two. When it is examined after this time, the water is seen 
to have risen in the bottle. Why is this ? It is quite clear that 
there is less air in the bottle now than there was before the iron 
became rusty. Some part of the air has, therefore, been 
used by the iron as it rusted, and this part of the air has joined 
with the iron to help to make the rust on the outside of it. 

Air as well as iron undergoes change. When iron 
rusts, the change which it has undergone is visible. No differ- 
ence can, however, be seen between the character of the air left 
in a bottle in which iron has rusted and ordinary air. But there 
is a very great difference. A flame is extinguished by the gas 
left in a bottle in which iron has rusted, hence the gas cannot 
be ordinary air, for a taper will burn quite easily in air. But 
before the rusting of the iron took place in it, the air was 
ordinary air. Hence, it is clear that the rusting of the iron is 



io8 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

accompanied by a change in the character of the air in the 
bottle. It is reasonable to suppose that the gas which dis- 
appears is concerned with the formation of iron rust, and this 
will be shown later to be actually the case. When iron rusts, it 
takes out of the air that part of it which helps burning, and 
moreover, the iron and the part of the air concerned in burning 
combine together to form iron rust. The part of the air left 
in the bottle will not let things burn in it. It should be very 
carefully remembered that : Iron in rusting gains in weight, 
taking some material frqm the air, and this material is the $art 
of the air which causes substances to burn in it. 



CHANGE IN THE AIR CAUSED BY RUSTING 

119. Volume of air used up in rusting. Measure in a graduated vessel 
the quantity of water in the bottle from the experiment in the last section. 
Tliis is equal to the quantity of gas which has been used up and has 
joined with the iron. Also measure the quantity of water the bottle 
holds. This gives us the volume of air the bottle originally held. What 
fraction of the total volume of air enclosed has been used up ? 

120. Change produced in air by iron rusting in it. Repeat the ex- 
periment of allowing iron to rust in an enclosed volume of air. After the 
iron has been left for a day or two, and there is no further rise of the 
water, mark the level of the water in the jar by a narrow strip of 
gummed paper on the outside. Carefully introduce another muslin bag 
of iron which is not rusty. This can be done by using a large enough 
basin of water, and pushing the bag through the water, being careful to 
allow no more air to get into the bottle. Examine the bottle after 
another day or two. There is no further rise in the level of the water, 
and the iron is not rusty. Evidently the gas which is left will not allow 
more iron to rust in it, though it is colourless and transparent, like 
ordinary air. 

What proportion of the air is taken by iron in 
rusting" ? Only a certain proportion of the enclosed air is 
taken out of it when iron rusts. Suppose some damp iron 
filings are allowed to rust in an enclosed amount of air, con- 
tained in a bottle inverted over a basin of water. The amount 
of water which rises into the bottle can be measured by means 
of a graduated vessel. A moment's thought will tell you that, 
as this water gradually takes the place of the material which the 
iron uses out of the air, its volume must be the same as the 
volume of the material so taken out of the air. The amount of 
water the bottle holds when full can be easily found, and the 



IX 



BURNING AND RUSTING 



109 



result shows the volume of air in the bottle to begin with. If 
observations of this kind are made, it will be found that, when 
the bottle is full, it has five times more water in it than it has 
after the iron has rusted. Even if the experiment is repeated 
several times with bottles of different sizes, the result is always 
the same. It is always found that one-fifth of the volume of 
enclosed air is used up by iron in rusting. 

Chemical composition of the air. That part of the air 
which helps substances to burn, and is taken out of the air by 
iron in rusting, may be called the active part of the air. That 
part which is left by the iron, and will not allow a taper or 




FIG. 77. When air passes over hot copper, it is deprived of its active part, 
and the inactive part may be collected as shown. 

candle to burn in it, may be called the inactive part. The 
observations just described show that air is made up, or com- 
posed, of i volume of the active part to 4 volumes of the inactive 
part, in every 5 volumes. In other words, in 100 pints of air 
there are 20 pints which will unite with iron to make iron rust, 
or which will assist a candle to burn, and 80 pints of the in- 
active part which will not assist burning. 

Other metals combine with the active part of air. 
When copper is heated in . air, it gradually blackens and 
increases in weight. When hot, copper has the power of com- 
bining with the active part of the air in just the same way as the 
iron does gradually when cold, and it is reasonable to conclude 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



that the black substance formed is copper rust, though it is not 
generally known by that name. 

That copper only combines with the active part, and leave: 
the inactive part, can be shown by a suitable experiment, though 
not so easily as in the case of iron. Some copper turnings are 
placed in a hard glass tube like that shown in Fig. 77, one end 
of which is connected with an aspirator full of air, and the 
other by means of a well-fitting cork with a tube which dips 
under water in a trough. Then a bottleful of water is inverted 
in the trough of water exactly over the end of the small tube, 
which dips into it, and is connected with the hard glass tube 
containing the copper. The copper is heated strongly, and air 
is forced over it by making water take the place of the air in the 
aspirator. As the air passes over the heated copper, the active 
part of the air joins with the copper to form the black copper rust, 
and the inactive part passes on alone into the inverted bottle in 
the trough. That the inactive part collects in the bottle is indi- 
cated, though not proved, by the fact that it puts out the flame 
of a taper. If this gas is, in the same way, passed over some 

more heated copper, it 
has no effect on it ; the 
copper does not blacken. 
Moreover, if the amount 
of air which has come 
out of the aspirator is 
measured, and also the 
amount collected in the 
bottle, it is found that in 
passing over the copper 
the air loses one-fifth of 
its volume. 

BURNING OF PHOS- 
PHORUS 

READ THE CAUTION ON 
P. III. 




FIG. 78. After the phosphorus has burned in the 
corked test-tube, the test-tube is uncorked 
under water, and water enters to take the 
place of the air used up. 



121. The burning of 
phosphorus. Place a little 
phosphorus upon a slate, 
tile, or an old saucer. Apply a light to it. It catches fire and burns 
brightly. As it burns, dense white clouds are formed. 



IN- 



BURNING AND RUSTING 



in 



122. Volume of air used up when phosphorus burns. Place a little 
red (or yellow) phosphorus in a test-tube fitted with a good cork. Fix 
the cork firmly in the test-tube. Hold the test-tube slantingly, by 
means of a test-tube holder, over a flame for a 

second or two, so as to heat the phosphorus 
and make it burn. When it will burn no 
longer, take away the test-tube and let it cool 
for five or ten minutes. 

Then hold the mouth of the test-tube well 
under water, and carefully take out the cork. 
Water rises inside the tube to take the place 
of the air used up. Notice that the rise is 
practically one-fifth the volume of air en- 
closed. 

123. White powder produced when phos- 
phorus burns. Carefully dry a wide glass 
cylinder and a small crucible. Cut off (under 
water) a piece of phosphorus about half as 
big as a pea, and dry it between blotting 
paper. Using a pair of tongs, place the phos- 
phorus in the crucible, touch it with a hot 
wire, and quickly put the cylinder over it, as 
in Fig. 79. A white powder is deposited 
upon the sides of the cylinder. When the 
phosphorus has ceased to burn, lift up the 
cylinder and pour a little water into it. The 
white powder dissolves with a slight hissing 
noise. Add a" little blue litmus to the water 
to red. 




FIG. 79. Arrangement for 
collecting the white pow- 
der produced by burn- 
ing phosphorus. 



the colour is changed 



124. Use of litmus paper. Dip a blue litmus paper into water. No 
distinct change of colour is observed. 

Dip a blue litmus paper into vinegar, lemon-juice, and weak solutions 
of other acids, such as hydrochloric and sulphuric acids. Notice that 
each liquid turns a blue litmus paper red. 

Dip a reddened litmus paper into a weak solution of soda. Notice 
that it has just the opposite effect to the acids, and turns the reddened 
litmus blue again. 

125. Lime-water test. Burn a little phosphorus in a test-tube, as in 
Expt. 122. When the test-tube is cool, take out the cork, and shake up 
the residual gas with a little clear lime-water which has been poured 
into it. No change in the lime-water will be observed. 

WARNING ! CARE IS NECESSARY IN DEALING WITH 
PHOSPHORUS. READ THE NEXT PARAGRAPH BEFORE USING 
PHOSPHORUS. 

Different kinds of phosphorus. There are two kinds of 
phosphorus, one called yellow phosphorus, and the other red, 
or amorphous, phosphorus. Yellow phosphorus catches fire 



H2 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

very easily ; the warmth of the hand is quite enough to inflame 
it. For these reasons it is always kept under water. It is 
generally bought in the form of sticks, which, when freshly 
manufactured, are of a yellow waxy colour. This phosphorus 
can easily be cut with a knife, but the cutting should always be 
done under water. However small the piece, it must never be 
touched with the bare fingers, but always lifted by small tongs 
or forceps. If this precaution is not taken, the warmth of the 
fingers may cause the phosphorus to catch fire, and, as it is 
difficult to shake it off when once alight, the burn which it 
causes is very severe and dreadfully painful. In all experiments 
with yellow phosphorus these warnings must be borne in mind. 
The red or powder form of phosphorus is not so inflammable 
as the yellow kind, and has not to be kept under water, but it 
must be used with care. 

Phosphorus readily burns in the air. It is only 
necessary to touch a piece of dry phosphorus with a hot wire to 
make it catch fire and burn. It burns with a dazzling bright 
flame, and at the same time dense clouds of white fumes are 
formed, which spread throughout the room. .These facts are 
noticed until all the phosphorus has disappeared. 

What happens when phosphorus burns in this way ? Is the 
change anything like that when iron rusts ? Does the phos- 
phorus gain or lose in weight ? These and several other questions 
present themselves, and they can be answered now. 

Change produced in air by burning phosphorus. 
To decide whether phosphorus in burning causes the same 
change in air as iron does when it rusts, it is best to burn 
some phosphorus in an enclosed amount of air in a way similar 
to that which has already been described for an experiment with 
damp iron. One way to do this is to place a little phosphorus 
on a cork or basin which floats on the surface of water, under a 
bell jar, or a stoppered bottle having no bottom. After the ex- 
periment is over, and the fumes have disappeared, the water is 
seen to have risen in the jar, indicating that there is less gas in 
the jar than before the phosphorus was burnt in it. 

From what has been previously said, you can understand at 
once that phosphorus in burning takes out the active part of 
the air, and leaves the inactive part behind. So far, then, the 
changes which occur when phosphorus burns are very like 



IX 



BURNING AND RUSTING 



those when iron rusts. Some differences will be studied a 
little later. 

The fraction of the air which disappears as a result of the 
burning of the phosphorus in a stoppered jar, can be measured 
easily enough after the jar has been raised a little, so that its 
mouth is still under water, but it no longer rests on the bottom 
of the basin. As in the case of the rusting of iron, one-fifth of 
the air is taken out of it by the phosphorus in burning. 

That the gas left behind is really the inactive part of air can be 
proved by quickly pulling out the stopper of a jar in which phos- 
phorus has been burnt, 
and introducing a lighted 
taper. The flame is at 
once extinguished. 

Phosphorus slow- 
ly takes out the 
active part of the 
air without being 
lighted. It has been 
seen that iron slowly 
takes the active part of 
the air and combines 
with it to form rust. And 
this seems to happen 
without heating the iron. 
Will ordinary phosphorus do the same when it is not alight ? 
This question, too, is easily answered by a simple experiment. 
When a piece of clean phosphorus is exposed to an enclosed 
quantity of air over water, the rapid changes just described take 
place slowly. The only difference in the two cases is the rate at 
which the active part of the air is taken out. Burning phos- 
phorus combines with the active part very quickly ; ordinary 
phosphorus but slowly. Still, given time enough, ordinary 
phosphorus will remove all the active part of air, and at the end 
of the experiment it will be found that again one-fifth of the air 
has disappeared (Fig. 81). 

Properties of the substance formed when phos- 
phorus combines with the active part of the air. 
We have as yet only noticed that the substance which is formed 
when phosphorus unites or joins with the active part of the 

EXP. HYG. I 




FIG. 80. Phosphorus uses up one-fifth of the air 
in the bottle when it burns, and water rises to 
take the place of the air used. 



114 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



air is a white snow-like powder, which corresponds to the rust 
formed when iron is exposed to air. With a little care, the 
quick disappearance of the white material which forms the fumes 
of burning phosphorus can be prevented. All that need be done 

is to burn a piece of dry phos- 
phorus in a dry vessel. In these 
circumstances, the white fumes 
settle down on the inside of the 
vessel in the form of a snow-like 
solid. But the white powder has 
so great an attraction for water that 
so soon as the vessel is opened it 
extracts the moisture from the air, 
and, first becoming moist, is quickly 
replaced by drops of liquid. If 
water is put into a test-tube or other 
vessel in which dry phosphorus has 
been burned, the white powder 
rapidly dissolves with a hissing 
noise, like that noticed when water 
comes in contact with hot iron. 
When a piece of blue litmus paper 
is dipped into a solution in water 
of the white powder produced by 
burning phosphorus, it is imme- 
diately reddened, thus showing that 
the solution is acid. A solution of 
soda in water acts in exactly the 
opposite way, and turns reddened 
litmus paper blue again. 

BURNING OF A CANDLE 

126. Moisture is formed when a 
candle burns. Over a burning candle 
hold a clear cold tumbler, which has 
been carefully dried inside and out. Notice that the inside of the 
tumbler becomes covered with mist, and, after a short time, drops of 
water are formed, which run down the sides of the tumbler. 

127. Properties of the gas left after a candle has burnt in air. Wind 
a piece of copper wire round a small candle, as shown in Fig. 83, and 
light the candle. Push the top of the wire through a small hole in a 
disc of cardboard, and then lower the candle into a dry, clear glass 
bottle in such a manner that the top of the jar is covered by the card- 




FIG. 81. If a piece of yellow phos- 
phorus is held at the top of a tube 
by means of a wire, it will slowly 
use up the oxygen in the en- 
closed air, and water will rise in 
the tube to take its place. 



IX 



BURNING AND RUSTING 




FIG. 82. To show the formation of 
moisture by the burning of a candle. 



board disc. Observe that the flame 

of the candle becomes dimmer and 

dimmer, and soon goes out alto- 
gether. Water collects on the 

inside of the jar, as in the last ex- 
periment. Take out the candle, 

and cover the jar with a greased 

glass plate. Quickly insert a burn- 
ing taper, or the re-lighted candle ; 

it is at once put out. Pour in a 

little fresh clear lime-water, and 

shake it up in the jar ; notice that 

it is turned milky. 

128. Volume of air used by a 

candle in burning. Fix two or 

three small candles of different 

lengths upon the inside of the top 

of a tin canister. Float the lid 

upon the surface of water in a 

basin, or sink it to the bottom of 

the basin, if the candles project 

well above the surface while it is in 

that position. Also float a small 

dish containing caustic soda. 

Light the candles, and while they 

are burning, hold over them a wide-mouthed bottle, so that the mouth 

of the bottle is beneath 
the surface of the water. 
When the candles have 
gone out, wait half an 
hour, and then mark the 
place to which the water 
has risen, by means of 
a strip of gummed paper. 
Take out the bottle, and 
find the volume of water 
which just fills it. Find 
also the volume required 
to fill it to the edge of 
the gummed paper. Sub- 
tract this volume from the 
preceding one, and thus 
obtain the volume of air 
used. Notice that it is 
about one-fifth of the 

FIG. 8 3 .-Method of supporting a candle for inser- who1 ? volume of air that 
tion in a bottle. was in the bottle. One 

of the products of com- 
bustion of the candle is a gas ; the caustic soda is used to absorb this 
product. 

I 2 




EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



The burning of a candle. Several facts have been learnt 
about the burning of phosphorus in air, and it will be desirable 
before proceeding farther to study the burning of some more 
common combustible substance, such, for instance, as a candle. 

In what respects is the burning of a candle similar to the 
burning of phosphorus, and does it differ from it in any way ? 
It has (p. 1 1 5) been shown already that a candle will not con- 
tinue to burn very long in an enclosed quantity of air. Unless 
the air is renewed in some way, a candle goes out. This gives 
us a convenient starting-point for the inquiry, Why does the 




FIG. 84. When the candles burn, a certain proportion of air is used up, 
and water rises into the inverted bottle to take its place. 

candle go out, and what changes take place when the candle is 
burning ? 

"Water is formed when a candle burns. When a 
clear glass bottle, which has been carefully dried inside 'and out, 
is held over a burning candle, it is soon noticed that drops of 
liquid begin to collect on the inside of the bottle and after a 
time they run down the sides. In some way or other, then, the 
burning of the candle causes a liquid to be produced. If a 
sufficient quantity of this liquid is collected, it can be proved to be 
water by tasting it, or by determining its density, or its boiling 
and freezing points. Water is the only liquid which boils at 
100 C. and freezes at o C., and the density of which is r. 

Another substance besides water is formed when a 
candle burns. If a candle is burnt in a clear glass bottle in 
the way shown in Fig. 83, the gas which is left behind can easily be 
examined. Experiments with this gas show that, like the inactive 



BURNING AND RUSTING 



117 



part of the air, it will not allow things to burn in it. But besides 
this it is found that the gas turns lime-water milky. The gas 
left after phosphorus has been burned in a similar jar, has not 
this property of making lime-water milky ; and you can thus be 
quite sure there is something else in the cylinder, besides the 
inactive part of the air already described. Hence, when a 
candle burns, it not only forms water, but also a colourless gas 
which turns clear lime-water milky. In order that the inactive 
part of a confined portion of air, left after a candle has burnt in 
it, may be measured, the gas which turns clear lime-water milky 
must be removed. It may be absorbed by caustic soda in the 
manner described in Expt. 128. When this experiment is per- 
formed, it is always found that at a certain stage the candle goes 
out, and subsequent measurement shows that the water has risen 
and filled about one-fifth of the jar. This result has been noticed 
in so many lessons that you are thus given reason to believe that 
the candle is extinguished because it has used up the active part 
of the air, which makes up one-fifth of the whole. 

BURNING OF COAL-GAS AND LAMP OIL 

129. Moisture and soot produced by flames. Invert a clear dry 
bottle over the flame of a small oil lamp without a chimney. Notice 
that the inside of the bottle becomes 

wet. The black deposit which also 
occurs may obscure the water, but will 
not hide it entirely. 

Hold a flask of cold water over a 
small gas flame of a laboratory burner 
(Fig. 85). Ndtice that the glass be- 
comes slightly dull, owing to the 
moisture deposited upon it. 

130. Invisible changes caused by 
burning oil. Place a wide-mouthed 
bottle or a wide glass cylinder com- 
pletely over a small oil lamp. Notice 
that after a time the flame goes out. 
When this happens, quickly remove 
the cylinder and cover it with a glass 
plate or a piece of card. Pour in a 
little clear fresh lime-water. Shake it 
up, and observe the milkiness produced. 

131. Changes produced by burning 
gas. Bend a glass tube into the shape 

shown in Fig. 86, and to its long limb attach an india-rubber tube, 
and so connect the bent glass tube to the gas supply. Turn on the tap, 




FlG - 8 5; -How to show that mois- 
ture 1S formed when gas burns ' 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



and light the gas at the end of the short limb. Turn the flame very 
low, and insert the tube into a cylinder or bottle, and after it begins 
to get dim, turn off the gas, remove the glass jet from the cylinder, and 
cover it with a plate. Show that the gas left in the cylinder turns 
lime-water milky. 

Some familiar combustible bodies. Candles are not 
now commonly used for lighting our houses. Sometimes lamps 
are employed, and in large rooms ordinary coal-gas is usually 
the substance which is burnt. As every one knows, lamps are 
supplied with oil. This oil rises up the wick of the lamp in the 
same way as water does up cotton 
threads, and this has been studied 
already. At the end of the wick the 
oil is burnt. Are the changes pro- 
duced by burning oil and gas similar 
to those which occur when a candle 
is lighted, and if not, what are the 
differences ? 

What products are formed 
when oil or gas is burnt ? By 
holding a clear dry bottle over the 
flame of a burning candle, it is easy 
to prove that water is formed as the 

burning is continued, because the vapour becomes condensed on 
the inside of the cold glass. In exactly the same way, it is 
found that water is formed when the flame is due to the burning 
of either oil or gas. This, then, is one way in which these three 
kinds of burning resemble one another. As in the burning of 
a candle, so when oil and gas burn, water is formed. 

But when a candle is burnt, a gas which turns lime-water 
milky is formed as well as water. Is this gas also produced 
when oil and gas are burnt ? This question may be answered 
in the same manner as when studying the burning of the candle. 
An oil lamp, or a gas jet, or a splinter of wood, is allowed to 
burn for a few minutes in a glass jar, and is then removed 
and the jar covered with a glass plate. When lime-water is 
poured into the jar, it is turned milky. We may consequently 
say that when a candle, a lamp, coal-gas, and wood are burnt, 
two substances are formed, namely, water and an invisible gas 
which turns lime-water milky. 




FIG. 86. How to burn gas in a 
jar. 



ix BURNING AND RUSTING 119 

All substances in burning use up the active part of 
the air. By suitable means it can be shown that oil and coal- 
gas also unite with the active part of the air and leave the inactive 
part behind. In fact, this is true in all cases of burning in the 
air. It does not matter what the substance which burns is 
like, if it burns in air it does so because it takes out the active 
part to unite with it to form new substances, and the inactive 
part is always left behind. 

SUMMARY. 

Action of metals on air. Metals increase in weight when they 
are tarnished by being heated in the air. Magnesium increases in 
weight when it burns in air. When iron rusts it increases in weight ; 
the increase is due to a gas taken out of the air by the iron as it rusts. 
The part of the air left behind as iron rusts will not allow a taper to 
burn in it. 

Composition of the air. Air contains two gases ; one is used up 
by iron in rusting, the other is left behind, and will not allow things to 
burn in it. 

Proportion of the two gases in air. When an excess of iron rusts 
in an enclosed amount of air, it always takes up one-fifth of the volume 
of the air. This part, which is also concerned in burning, may be 
called the active part of air. The remaining four-fifths of the air, which 
will not allow things to burn in it, in which iron will not rust, may be 
called the inactive part of air. 

The burning of phosphorus in air. Phosphorus readily burns in 
the air ; in doing so it takes out the active part and combines with it 
to form a snow-like powder. It can also slowly take out the active part 
of air without being lighted. When phosphorus is burnt in an enclosed 
volume of air, one-fifth of this air is used up, and four-fifths remain. 
The white powder referred to dissolves in water with a hissing sound, 
forming with the water a solution having acid properties. 

The burning of a candle. When a candle burns in air, water is 
formed, and also a gas which turns lime-water milky. As in other 
cases of burning, one-fifth of the air is used up by a candle in burning. 
Nothing is lost when a candle is burnt. 

The burning of coal-gas. The burning of "gas" is similar to 
that of a candle. The same substances are produced, and are recognised 
in the same way. It, too, uses up the active part of air. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER IX. 

I. If the inside of a bottle had moist iron filings spread over it, and 
the bottle were corked up and left in a warm room for a few weeks, 
what would you expect to see if the cork were then withdrawn while 
the mouth of the bottle were held under water ? 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. ix 



2. Explain the changes that would take place in the bottle men- 
tioned in the previous question. 

3. What do you know about the composition of the air ? Describe 
an experiment by which you would show each of the statements you 
make to be true. 

4. Half an ounce of magnesium is burnt in the air, and the ashes 
formed are carefully collected and weighed. Compare the weight of 
the ashes with that of the magnesium burnt, and explain the reason for 
the difference in the weights. 

5. Describe an experiment (making a drawing of the apparatus you 
would use) to show that air contains a gas in which a taper will not 
burn. 

6. A piece of phosphorus is burnt in a stoppered bottle containing 
100 c.c. of air. The stopper of the bottle is then taken out under 
water. How many cubic cms. of water enter the bottle ? What facts 
do you learn from this observation ? 

7. Compare and contrast the rusting of iron and the slow burning of 
phosphorus. 

8. How could you obtain a small quantity of the white powder formed 
when phosphorus burns in air ? What experiments should you make 
to show another person the properties of this powder ? 

9. A piece of phosphorus is placed in a bottle, and the bottle is 
corked, suspended from one arm of a balance, and counterpoised The 
phosphorus is then caused to burn by heating the bottle. Will the 
balance remain counterpoised after cooling ? Give reasons for your 
answer. 

10. A lighted candle is stood upright in water, and a bottle is placed 
over it, with the neck under the surface of the water. Describe and 
account for what happens. 

11. If two bottles were given you, in one of which phosphorus had 
been burnt, and in the other a candle, how could you decide which 
bottle was used for the phosphorus ? 

12. Write a little essay on " the burning of a candle." 

13. Give the names of four common combustible substances. Explain 
as fully as possible what takes place when a gas jet is lighted. 



CHAPTER X 
COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 

SEARCH FOR THE ACTIVE PART OF AIR 

132. Changes produced by heating lead in air. Heat a few pieces 
of clean lead in an open crucible (Fig. 87). When the lead has 
melted, stir the liquid metal with a stout iron wire. Notice the forma- 
tion of a powdery scum upon the lead. 

Observe that the colour of the powder is 
darker when hot. Let the crucible cool. 
Notice that it now contains a yellow powdery 
substance in addition to the unchanged lead. 
By strongly heating this powder its colour 
changes again, and it becomes red lead. 

133. Gas produced by heating red lead. 
Place a little red lead in a hard glass tube, 
and strongly heat the tube as in Fig. 88. 1 
Notice that the red lead undergoes a change 
of colour. Into the tube insert a glowing 
splinter. Observe that the splinter is re- 
kindled. Why is this? 

134. Change produced by heating mercury rust. Repeat the 
preceding experiment with some red oxide of mercury, and notice the 
formation of the silvery, mirror-like deposit of mercury, or quicksilver, 
round the cold upper part of the tube. Insert a glowing splinter of 
wood, and watch it re-kindle. 

"Where to look for the active part of air. Since, in 
suitable circumstances, iron, copper, and lead take the active 
part out of the air, and unite with it to form fresh substances, it 
should not be difficult to make these, or similar substances, give 
up the part of the air which they take up, and so to procure 
the active constituent of air by itself in a pure form. But a 




122 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



little more thought suggests that probably some of these sub- 
stances would do better than others. It is quite certain that some 
are formed more easily than others. Will those which are most 
easily formed be the best from which to get the active part ? 
No. The reason is this. When a chemical change takes place 

very easily, it generally 
means that the sub- 
stances taking part in 
the change have as it 
were a great liking for 
one another, and when 
they combine together 
they form a compound 
which it is very difficult 
to separate into its parts 
again. The easiest way 
to set to work is, there- 
fore, first to find some 
substance which only 
combines with the 
active part slowly and 
with difficulty, for the 
compound such a sub- 
stance forms with the 
active part will most likely be a weak one, and easily broken 
up again. 

The compounds which lead forms with the active 
part of the air. When lead is heated in contact with the air, 
a yellow powder which is much darker in colour when hot is 
formed. If the heating is continued long enough, all the metal 
is changed into powder. The change takes place fairly easily, 
so that from previous reasoning you would conclude that it is 
probably difficult to get the active part of the air again from 
this powder. And this is so. But it is found that, when some of 
the yellow powder is heated for a long time at the temperature 
at which lead melts, it slowly takes up still more of the active part 
of the air, and changes in colour, becoming red. The first powder 
obtained, which is yellow, is in some states called litharge; the 
second red powder is known as red lead. It is easy to get the 
second lot of the active part of the air again from the red lead. 




FIG. 88. When red lead is heated, a gas is given 
off which will re-kindle a glowing splinter. 



x COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 123 

How the active part of air is obtained from red 
lead. When red lead is heated, it changes in colour, and if 
the heat has not been great, it regains its original red colour 
when allowed to cool. But if strongly heated, the red lead 
gives up some of the active part of the air which it contains, 
and is reconverted into litharge. The amount of the active part 
of the air which it thus gives up on being heated is the second 
quantity referred to in the last paragraph, which is taken up 
slowly when the heating of lead is continued for a long time. 
If red lead is strongly heated in a tube, as in Fig. 88, and a 
glowing splinter of wood is pushed down the tube, the splinter 
bursts into flame and continues to burn brightly. The active 
part of air has been obtained alone, and supports burning 
very strongly. 

Other ways of obtaining the active part of air. 
Quicksilver, or mercury, when strongly heated in the air, slowly 
combines with the active part, and gradually becomes converted 
into a bright red powder, which is the rust of mercury. If some 
of this rust of mercury is heated in a hard glass tube, as in 
Fig. 88, it soon changes in colour ; and as the heating is 
continued it is noticed that a mirror-like deposit is formed round 
the top, cold part of the tube. When this deposit is rubbed 
with a penholder or pencil, it runs together and forms little drops 
of quicksilver. Moreover, if a glowing splinter of wood is intro- 
duced into the tube, it bursts into flame, showing that the active 
part of the air is being driven out of the red mercury rust. 
This change is just the reverse of what takes place when 
mercury itself is heated. The active part of the air, which hot 
mercury slowly combines with, is driven out of the red mercury 
rust when that is strongly heated. But red mercury rust is very 
expensive, and it is too costly a plan to heat it to obtain a 
quantity of the active part of air sufficient for the study of its 
properties. Several other and cheaper substances easily give up 
the active part of air when heated. 

The active part of the air is called oxygen. As it 
will be more convenient in the future to speak of the active 
part of the air by the name chemists use for it, we may state 
here that it is always called oxygen, but the meaning of this 
name will be better understood later on. 



124 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



PREPARATION OF OXYGEN 

135. Oxygen from potassium chlorate. Place a little potassium 
chlorate or chlorate of potash (which is the same thing) in a test-tube, 
and heat it as in Fig. 88. Observe that the powder crackles, melts, 
and gives off a gas. Test by a glowing splinter of wood, and see that 
the gas behaves like oxygen, the active part of the air. 

136. Preparation of a small quantity of oxygen. Powder some 
Crystals of potassium chlorate, and mix the powder with a little 
manganese dioxide (sometimes called pyrolusite). Heat some of the 
mixture in a test-tube, as in the last experiment. Observe by putting 
in a glowing splinter that oxygen is given off. Notice that in this case 
there is no melting, and the gas comes off more readily. 

137. Preparation and collection of oxygen. Into a hard glass tube, 
closed at one end, fit an india-rubber stopper, with one hole in it, 
through which a tube, bent as in Fig. 89, is passed. The other end of 
this tube, called the delivery tube, dips under water in a trough. Mix 
together some potassium chlorate and manganese dioxide, as in the 
previous experiments, and place the mixture in the tube. Support the 
tube and delivery tube as shown in the illustration. Fill several bottles 
with water, and invert them in the trough. Gently warm the tube, and 
place one of the bottles of water over the end of the delivery tube. As 
the oxygen is driven off, it displaces the water and gradually fills the 
bottle. When the bottle is full of oxygen, cover its mouth with a 
greased glass plate, and lift it out of the trough. In this way fill five or 
six bottles with oxygen. 

Caution. Be careful not to take away the burner from under the 
hard glass tube before removing the delivery tube from the trough. 

138. Physical character of oxygen. Take one of the bottles, and 
examine the gas inside so far as you can by looking at it. Then lift off 
the glass plate and smell the gas. Draw a little into the mouth, and 
notice that it has no taste. 

Other substances besides rusts of metals give up 
oxygen when heated. It has been found by experiment 
that a number of substances give off oxygen when heated. The 
one most commonly used is a white crystalline solid called 
potassium chlorate. If a crystal of this substance is placed in a 
test-tube and heated in the flame of a laboratory burner, it first 
crackles, then melts, and by and by begins to give off bubbles of 
oxygen gas. It is easy to show that the gas given off is really 
oxygen, because when a glowing splinter of wood is inserted 
into the tube it is immediately re-kindled, bursting into flame 
and burning brightly. 

Oxygen is given off more easily if the potassium 
chlorate is mixed with manganese dioxide. To obtain 



COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 



125 



all the oxygen from potassium chlorate requires a considerable 
amount of heat when the substance is heated alone. If, how- 
ever, the chlorate of potash is first mixed with certain other 
substances, such as manganese dioxide, it is found possible to 
obtain the oxygen with very much less trouble. The gas is 
given off at a much lower temperature, and more readily in 
every way. It is the custom, therefore, when it is desired to 
prepare considerable quantities of oxygen in the laboratory, to 
use a mixture of potassium chlorate and manganese dioxide, 
which is often known as oxygen mixture. 

Preparation and collection of oxygen. The appar- 
atus shown in Fig. 89 is very convenient for preparing oxygen 




FIG. 89. A convenient means of obtaining oxygen gas from a mixture 
of potassium chlorate and manganese dioxide. 

from oxygen mixture. A tube closed at one end is fitted with 
an india-rubber stopper or a good sound cork, through which a 
hole has been bored. A small glass tube, conveniently bent, fits 
tightly into the hole, and is so arranged that its other end dips 
under water in a trough. Oxygen mixture is placed in the 
closed tube. When this mixture is heated, a gas is given off. 
To collect this gas, several bottles should be filled with water 
and inserted in the trough. When these bottles are ready, the 
closed tube is gradually warmed with a laboratory burner, and 
after a little while one of the bottles is placed over the open end 



126 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



of the tube in the trough. The gas which passes down this 
delivery tube, being lighter than the water, of course rises up 
through it into the bottle. In this way the water is gradually 
pushed out of the bottle, and its place taken by the gas. 

This plan of collecting gases which do not dissolve, or dissolve 
only to a small extent, in water, was devised by Priestley, the 
chemist who first obtained oxygen. It is called collecting over 
water. When the bottle is full of the gas, and while its mouth 
is still under water, it is covered with a greased glass plate, 
which is held tightly to the mouth by the left hand, and the 
bottle lifted out and placed on the table with the right. The 
gas is now ready for testing. 

Physical properties of oxygen. If one of the bottles 
of gas, collected as described, is allowed to stand for a minute 
or two and then examined, several of the 
characters of oxygen can be made out. To 
begin with, oxygen is an invisible gas. It 
has neither smell nor taste. It has been found 
by making careful weighings of the same 
volumes of oxygen and air that oxygen is a 
little heavier than air. When made very 
cold and compressed very much, it is changed 
into a liquid. All these are called physical 
properties of oxygen. 

CHEMICAL BEHAVIOUR OF OXYGEN 

139. Substances when cold do not burn in 
oxygen. (a.) Place a piece of charcoal in a de- 
flagrating spoon, on the stem of which a disc is 
placed in such a position that it will cover the mouth 
of the bottle when inserted in it, while at the same 
time the spoon is at a convenient distance from the 




FIG. 90. A deflagrat- 
ing spoon in a gas jar. 



bottom ot the bottle (Fig. 90). Quickly plunge 

this into one of the bottles of oxygen. Nothing 

happens. 

(b.) Make the same test with pieces of sulphur 

and phosphorus. 

140. Combustion of various substances in oxygen. (a.} Repeat 
each of the previous experiments, using a new bottle of oxygen each 
time, but first make the carbon red-hot, and ignite the sulphur and 
phosphorus. Observe that in each case the burning is very much more 
intense than in air. After the burning has finished, take out the deflagrat- 
ing spoon and again cover the bottle used with a well-greased glass plate. 



X COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 127 

(b. ) Obtain a piece of iron wire (a thin steel watch-spring will do), and 
clip one end into a little melted sulphur. Light the sulphur on the 
wire, and while the sulphur is stili burning, place the wire into a jar of 
oxygen. Notice that the sulphur burns brightly, and then starts the 
burning of the iron, which continues with a brilliant shower of sparks. 

141. Products of combustion in oxygen. First, take the bottle in 
which the charcoal was burnt. Place a piece of moistened blue litmus 
paper in the bottle. It is turned slightly red. Why ? Pour in a little 
clear lime-water. Notice that it turns milky. 

Secondly, take the bottle in which the sulphur or brimstone was 
burnt. Notice the suffocating smell of the fumes. Shake up a little 
water in the bottle. The fumes dissolve. Put a piece of blue litmus 
paper into the water. It is turned a bright red. 

Thirdly, take the bottle in which the phosphorus was burnt. The 
dense white fumes soon disappear. Test the solution of the fumes with 
a blue litmus paper. The paper is immediately turned bright red. 

FourtFiCy, tafce the bottle in which the iron was burnt. Notice the brown 
deposit on the sides of the bottle. Compare it with the rust of iron. 
Examine the lump of black material found on the bottom of the bottle, 
or still attached to the remainder of the watch-spring. Is it iron ? 

Substances at the temperature of the air do not 
ignite in oxygen. When pieces of cold charcoal, sulphur, 
and phosphorus are placed into jars of oxygen gas, nothing 
happens. These observations show that for burning to take 
place, even in oxygen, we must assist the action by heating the 
substance until it reaches a certain degree of temperature. For 
the same reason, if we wish paper, wood, or coal to burn that is, 
to unite with the oxygen of the air we apply heat to them to 
cause them to do so. If this were not so, since, as you have 
learnt, the air contains one-fifth of its volume of oxygen, many 
substances would combine with this gas when simply exposed 
to the air. The temperature to which a substance must be 
heated before it will commence to combine with oxygen, or 
start burning, is often called the kindling temperature, or 
temperature of ignition. 

When heated many substances readily combine 
with oxygen. But if, before putting a piece of charcoal into 
oxygen, it is made red-hot in the flame of a laboratory burner, 
or a spirit-lamp, it no sooner comes into contact with the 
oxygen than a change is noticed. The piece of charcoal begins to 
burn very brilliantly, bright sparks are given off, and the appear- 
ance is so brilliant that the burning puts the observer in mind 
of a firework. As the burning proceeds, the piece of charcoal 



128 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 




FIG. QI. Sulphur burns more 
brilliantly in oxygen than in 



gets smaller and smaller. The charcoal seems to disappear 
and be lost, but you know that this cannot be so. 

Similarly with sulphur, even when a piece is held in a flame, 
it only catches fire with difficulty, and soon goes out again if 
removed from the source of heat. But 
if, while it is still alight, it is transferred 
to a jar of oxygen, a difference is at 
once observed. The flame gets larger 
and brighter, and is of a beautiful 
lavender colour. It remains until all 
the sulphur, or all the oxygen, or both, 
have been used up. 

The flame with which phosphorus 
burns in oxygen is dazzling in its 
brightness. In fact, the burning is 
so intense that it is painful to some 
eyes to watch it. This is particularly 
the case when the experiment is per- 
formed in a dark room. 

Substances formed when charcoal, sulphur, and 
phosphorus burn in oxygen. Carbon. First, what happens 
in a jar in which charcoal has been burnt ? It has already been 
stated that the piece of charcoal gets smaller and smaller. An 
examination of the gas left in the bottle shows that it is not 
oxygen. It turns a moistened blue litmus paper red ; and 
makes clear lime-water shaken up with it milky. If this solu- 
tion is placed on one side, a white sediment is formed, and the 
solution becomes clear again. Evidently, then, when charcoal, 
which the chemists call carbon, burns in oxygen, it gradually 
diminishes in amount, forming with the oxygen another gas 
which reddens a blue litmus paper and turns lime-water 
milky. 

Sulphur. Sulphur, or brimstone, disappears as it burns in 
oxygen. When, however, the contents of a bottle in which the 
burning has occurred are examined, it is seen that the results 
are quite different from those in the case of the carbon. The 
fumes which fill the bottle are very distressing when breathed, 
their smell is like that produced by a brimstone match when it 
is first lighted, or by burning sulphur. This is because the 
gas formed when sulphur or brimstone burns in the air is the 



x COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 129 

same as when it burns in oxygen. A moistened blue litmus 
paper put into the gas is immediately turned red, the shade of 
colour being much brighter and deeper than that produced by 
the gas in a jar in which carbon has been burnt. Substances 
which turn a blue litmus paper red are said to be acid^ conse- 
quently the substances formed by the burning of carbon and 
sulphur in oxygen both have acid properties. 

Phosphorus. You are already familiar with the white powder 
which is formed when phosphorus burns in air, and if it is 
compared with that produced when phosphorus burns in oxygen, 
the two are found to be exactly similar. By treating the 
white powder in the latter case in the same way as that formed 
when phosphorus burns in air (p. m), it is found that they are 
both alike, for each dissolves in water with a hissing noise, and 
forms a solution which turns blue litmus paper red. 

Burning of iron in oxygen. Iron will not burn in the 
air even when made red-hot. If it did, the iron of fire-grates 
and furnaces would catch fire and burn away. But iron 
when made red-hot in oxygen does catch fire, and burns so 
long as there is any oxygen and iron left. This shows how 
very much better oxygen supports combustion than air does, 
which is, of course, what you would expect, since the oxygen in 
the air is mixed with four times its volume of the inactive part 
of air a gas which will not allow things to burn in it at all. 

Oxygen is spoken of as a strong or vigorous supporter of 
combustion. 

THE INACTIVE PART OF AIR 

. \ 

142. The inactive part of air. Repeat the experiment of allowing 
iron to rust in an enclosed quantity of air over water (p. 105), and \JV 
satisfy yourself that the gas left behind (a) extinguishes a flame ; "T 

no action on a litmus paper ; (c) does not turn lime-water milky. < 

143. Air can be obtained again by mixing oxygen with the in 
active part of air. Again allow iron to rust in an enclosed amount of {jjtn\ 
air. When the volume of gas in the bottle has ceased to diminish, 
remove the muslin bag containing the iron. Place the delivery tube 
from an oxygen apparatus, similar to that used in the experiment on 

p. 124, and by heating the hard glass tube bubble oxygen into the 
bottle until it is again full of gas. Cover the mouth of the bottle with ' - 
a piece of cardboard, lift out the bottle, and test the gas it contains 
a burning taper : it behaves just like air. - (jtiA^i t&\ *M 

EXP. HYG. K 



130 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

The inactive part of air. The gas which is left in a 
bottle of air after iron has rusted in it, or phosphorus has 
burnt in it, or in which any one of the instances of burning 
which have now been studied has occurred, will no longer allow 
a candle or taper to burn in it. This is one reason why it 
is called the inactive part of air. The inactive part of air does 
not affect damp iron at all ; that is, the iron does not rust when 
put into it. The name by which this gas is known to chemists 
is nitrogen, and the effect of its presence in the air is that the 
activity of the oxygen is thereby diminished, toned down, or 
weakened. Nitrogen not only will not allow things to burn in 
it, but it will not itself burn, or, as is more commonly said, it is 
incombustible. There are other substances in the air besides 
the active and inactive constituents which have now been 
described, but in this chapter, since their amounts are small, 
their study would be out of place. 

Properties of Nitrogen. This gas nitrogen is an example 
of a very inactive, or inert, substance. It can only be made to 
combine with other substances with great difficulty in fact, 
with most other things it cannot be made to combine at all. 
Not only is nitrogen incombustible, and a non-supporter of 
combustion, but it will not turn lime-water milky, and a mouse 
put into the gas dies very quickly this is because of the 
absence of oxygen. 

If the number of negative properties of nitrogen is borne 
in mind, and if we think of this side by side with the very 
active qualities of oxygen, it is not at all difficult to under- 
stand that its presence in the air serves the purpose of 
weakening the oxygen, and thus making combustion less 
intense. 

Chemical composition of air. What may be termed 
the fundamental gases in air are oxygen and nitrogen. 
Carbon dioxide and water vapour are practically always 
present, and various other gases, or vapours, frequently occur 
in small quantities, but these may be regarded as impurities, 
and ought not to be considered as constituents of pure air. 
The following table shows the percentage composition of air 
as regards volume ; that is, for instance, the number of cubic 
feet of the various gases present in 100 cubic feet of the 
atmosphere : 



COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 131 



Oxygen, a gas which supports combustion . . . 20*61 

Nitrogen, an inert gas 77*3 2 

Carbon dioxide, a suffocating gas 0*03 

Water vapour i '40 

Argon 0*63 

Nitric acid \ 

Ammonia > traces 

Ozone / 

These proportions are remarkably constant in ordinary air, 
and it is only in localities or under conditions of an exceptional 
character that they vary to any noteworthy degree. In the air 
of mines, the oxygen has been found as low as i8'6 per cent, 
but this represents almost the lowest percentage of oxygen ever 
obtained from a place where human beings could live. In the 
midst of vegetation, or open ground, especially in the daytime, 
oxygen is present in the proportion of nearly 21 per cent, but 
never more. 

Nitrogen not only serves to tone down the activity of oxygen 
as a supporter of combustion, but it is also useful to the life of 
plants. A few lowly plants appear to absorb nitrogen direct 
from the air, but the majority of them obtain it indirectly as the 
result of the action of bacteria existing in the soil or in their 
roots. 

The proportion of carbon dioxide rarely exceeds 3 parts in 
10,000 in pure air, and is not often less than 27 parts per 10,000. 
During the night the proportion is slightly greater than in the 
day. In the streets of a town the amount of carbon dioxide only 
exceeds the average amount of the open country by about I part 
in 10,000. In rooms, however, and badly-ventilated places, 
carbon dioxide is often greatly in excess, and oxygen is present 
in a much smaller proportion than it ought to be. Carbon 
dioxide is not essentially a poisonous gas, but it is often found 
in bad company, and when it occurs in excess, the air of which 
it forms a part is unfit to breathe. 

Air always contains a certain proportion of invisible water 
vapour, and when the air is cooled to a sufficient degree, this 
vapour becomes visible in the form of mist, fog, cloud, rain, 
or other familiar forms of water (p. 99). Ozone is a peculiar 
form of oxygen, and is usually present in the air of the open 
country or over the sea, but not in that of towns. Traces of 

K 2 



I 3 2 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

ammonia are always found in air, and with nitric acid gas it 
plays a part in the growth of plants. 

In addition to these and other gases, numerous minute solid 
particles are suspended in air, some of them being living germs. 
They are more abundant in the town than in the country. 



SUMMARY. 

The active part of air. To obtain the active part of air by itself 
those substances are again heated which metals form when heated in 
the air. Such substances as are formed with difficulty are split up 
most easily. Red lead is a good instance. The red oxide of mercury 
is also easily split up into mercury and the active part of air. Chemists 
call the active part of the air oxygen, 

Preparation of oxygen. When potassium chlorate is heated, it 
crackles, melts, and gives off bubbles of oxygen. If the potassium 
chlorate is first mixed with manganese dioxide, the oxygen is given off 
more readily. This mixture is often called oxygen mixture. 

Physical' properties of oxygen. It is a gas with no colour ; no taste, 
and no smell. It is a little heavier than air. 

Chemical behaviour of oxygen. At the temperature of the air, 
carbon, sulphur, phosphorus, &c., do not burn when placed in oxygen. 
If these substances are first heated, they burn very brightly if plunged 
into oxygen. In each case the substance formed has acid properties. 
Iron will burn in oxygen under suitable conditions. 

The inactive part of air. The gas left behind when iron rusts in air 
is called nitrogen by the chemist. It extinguishes a flame, has no 
action on litmus paper, and does not turn lime-water milky. A mix- 
ture behaving just like air can be made by mixing nitrogen and oxygen 
in the proper proportions. Nitrogen serves to dilute the oxygen of 
the air. 

Composition of the air. In 100 parts by volume of air, the follow- 
ing gases are usually present, in the proportion stated : 

Oxygen, 2O'6i ; nitrogen, 77*32 ; carbon dioxide, 0-03 ; water vapour, 
1*40; argon, 0*63 ; and traces of nitric acid, ammonia, and ozone. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER X. 

1. Why can oxygen be more easily obtained by heating red lead 
than iron rust ? 

2. How can oxygen be obtained from red oxide of mercury ? Draw 
the apparatus you would use to perform this experiment. 

3. How would you set about obtaining two or three bottlesful of 
oxygen ? Make a sketch of the apparatus you would employ, and state 
any precautions you would observe. 

4. If two bottles were given you, one containing oxygen and the 
other ordinary air, how could you find out which was which ? 

5. What happens when a piece of cold charcoal is put into oxygen ? 



COMPOSITION OF THE AIR 133 



What differences would you notice if the charcoal were first made red- 
hot, and then plunged into the oxygen ? 

6. How would you show by an experiment that iron can be made to 
burn in oxygen ? 

7. If you were given a bottle in which phosphorus had been burnt, 
and another in which carbon had been burnt, how could you distinguish 
one from the other ? 

8. Compare the properties of nitrogen and oxygen. Tell what you 
can about the use of each of these gases in the atmosphere. 

9. What do you mean by the physical properties of a gas ? State 
the physical properties of nitrogen. 

10' How would you obtain a bottle full of nitrogen ? What experi. 
ments should you perform to demonstrate its chief properties ? 

n. Mention some everyday chemical changes in which the oxygen 
of the air takes a prominent part. 

12. What useful purpose is served by painting iron fences? 



CHAPTER XI 
WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 

ACTION OF METALS ON WATER 

144. Iron becomes rusty in water containing dissolved air. Leave 
a piece of clean iron in water for several hours. Notice that rust forms 
ujxm it. 

145. Iron in boiled water does not rust. Boil some water in a ftask or 
clean saucepan for some time so as to drive out the dissolved air. Obtain 



HYDROGEN 




Kio. 92. A means of obtaining hydrogen gas from water by depriving steam 
of oxygen. 

a wire nail, or a steel pen-nib, and after washing it in soap and water, 
to remove oil, dry it, place it in a bottle, and quickly fill up the bottle 
with the boiled water. Insert a tightly-fitting india-rubber stopper, 
being careful to enclose no air between the stopper and the top of the 
water. Place on one side, and examine the iron after several hours. No 
rust will be seen. 

146. Inflammable gas obtained from water. Place some clean iron 
filings or iron tacks in a hard glass tube connected at one end with 



CH. xi WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 135 



a flask containing water, which has boiled for some time, while the other 
end is connected with a tube leading to a trough of water (Fig. 92). 

Strongly heat the iron filings and boil the water in the flask, so that 
steam passes over the heated iron, and then into the water in the trough, 
where it condenses. Now place over the end of the tube in the trough 
an inverted test-tube or gas jar of water. Notice the steam seems not 
completely condensed, but that small bubbles ascend to the top 
of the gas jar. In this way collect a jar full of the gas. When 
the gas jar is full of gas, pull out the stopper at one end of the tube, 
and remove the burner from underneath the flask of water. While 
the gas jar still dips under the water in the trough, cover its open 
end with a greased glass plate, and, holding a lighted match to the 
mouth with your left hand remove the glass plate. Observe that the 
gas takes fire with a slight pop, and burns. 

Now examine the iron filings in the tube, and observe that a 
quantity of rust has been formed. 

Action of cold iron upon water. Whenever iron is 
left in water for some time, a considerable quantity of reddish 
rust is formed. It has, however, already been learnt that \\ater 
contains air dissolved in it, and also that iron can combine with 
the oxygen in the air. This suggests, therefore, that iron which 
rusts when left in water, does so by combining with the oxygen 
of the air which the water has previously dissolved. 

When water is boiled for some time, the air which it has 
dissolved is driven out. If a piece of bright clean iron is sealed 
up in a tube, with some of this boiled water from which all the 
air has been driven, and left for some time, it is found either 
that the iron does not rust at all, or that it does so to a very small 
extent only. Evidently, then, little can be found out about the 
composition of water by putting cold iron into it. But when 
heated iron is used, a different result is obtained. 

Action of heated iron upon water in the form of 
steam. To make as large a surface of heated iron as possible 
come into contact with the water, it is best to use iron filings in 
studying the action of steam upon hot iron. The filings are con- 
tained in a hard glass tube, which will not melt when strongly 
heated. The hard glass tube is fitted at each end with india- 
rubber stoppers, through each of which a hole is made to 
take a glass tube. One of these tubes is connected with a 
flask, or other vessel, containing boiling water. The other 
tube is bent to make a delivery tube, which dips into a trough 
of water. 



136 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

The iron filings in the hard glass tube are made red-hot by 
strongly heating the tube. The tube is then connected with the 
flask containing boiling water, and the stopper with the delivery 
tube is inserted at its other end. At first, air escapes through 
the water in the trough ; and, after that, bubbles of steam pass 
from the end of the delivery tube and are condensed by the 
water in the trough. When this occurs, a tube full of water is 
inverted over the end of the delivery tube, and as it is watched 
it is noticed that small bubbles of gas pass up into the tube and 
collect there. When a lighted match is brought in contact 
with the gas which collects in the test-tube, it is found to burn. 
Moreover, an examination of the iron filings shows they have 
been partly changed into red rust. 

What happens when steam passes over red-hot 
iron. Since the gas which collects in the test-tube burns, it is 
clearly not uncondensed steam, for when a lighted match is put 
into steam the steam does not burn. Nor is it air from the 
flask, or from the water, because air will not burn. It must be 
a new substance which has been obtained from the water, and 
you can now be quite sure that the water contains a gas which 
will burn. This gas used to be called inflammable air, that is, 
air which will burn. It is now called hydrogen. 

But why should the iron have rusted ? What has already 
been learnt about the rusting of iron in air must be borne in 
mind. Iron, when it rusts in air, takes out the active part, that 
is the oxygen, and combines with it. There is every justifica- 
tion for saying, therefore, that the iron filings have combined 
with oxygen, or they would not have gone rusty. Where did the 
oxygen come from ? Certainly not from air, because that was 
driven out before the change took place. The result indicates 
that the oxygen comes from the steam, and that steam is made 
up of this oxygen and the gas which burns, that is, hydrogen. 
It is, however, necessary to study the question more fully before 
it is established that this conclusion is correct. 

THE COMPOSITION OF WATER 

Caution ! Sodium must never be touched with bare fingers, for it 
becomes very hot when in contact with wet or moist things. Experi- 
ments with sodium should only be performed in the Presence of some one 
familiar with its Properties. 



WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 



137 



147. Effect of putting sodium in water. Cut off a piece of sodium 
about the size of a pea. By means of forceps, place it upon the surface 
of some water in a glass tumbler, and quickly put a large glass beaker or 
a wire-gauze dish-cover over the tumbler. Notice that the sodium 
floats, takes the form of a ball, and runs about over the surface, and 
finally bursts with a slight 

explosion. 

Bring a lighted taper near 
a piece of floating sodium. 
A golden yellow flame ap- 
pears, and the sodium ap- 
pears to be burning. 

148. Sodium used to set 
free the inflammable gas 
in water. Make a short 
roll of wire-gauze, close one 
end, and insert a pebble or 
a small piece of lead into 
the roll or tube. Cut off 
a piece of dry sodium about 
the size of a pea. Put it 
into the roll, and then nearly 
close the open end. Have 
an inverted test-tube full 
of water ready in a trough 

or a basin, and drop the FIG. 93. Hydrogen gas driven out of water 

gauze, with the sodium in it, b Y sodium. 

into the water. Notice the 

bubbles of gas which rise from the sodium, and collect them in the 

test-tube. Examine the gas in the test-tube, as described in Expt. 146, 

and notice that it burns. 




Other metals besides iron will turn hydrogen out 
of water. It has been seen that before iron can set hydrogen 
free from water it must be red-hot. Some other metals will 
do the same thing without being heated. It has been found 
that a metal called sodium will turn hydrogen out of water even 
when it is cold. 

The action of sodium on water. Though sodium is 
heavier than naphtha (the liquid in which it is always kept), it 
is lighter than water. Consequently, when a piece of sodium 
is put upon water it floats. So soon as it touches the water, 
however irregular its shape, the piece of sodium becomes 
quite round, and darts about from one place to another, 
spinning the whole time. All the while it gets smaller 
and smaller, and just before its disappearance there is often 



I 3 8 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

a little explosion, and small pieces of sodium are scattered 
in every direction. The greatest care must be taken that none 
of these tiny fragments hit the face. 

If, as the little ball of sodium is careering about the surface 
of the water, a lighted taper is brought near it, it seems to catch 
fire and burn with a golden yellow flame. It is, however, not 
really the sodium which is burning, but the inflammable gas 
which it sets free from the water as it travels from place to 
place. 

How to collect the gas which sodium turns out 
of water. If a piece of sodium is put into a weighted roll of 
wire-gauze, which is dropped into water, then, so soon as the 
sodium enters the water, bubbles of gas begin to appear. These 
can easily be collected by holding an inverted test-tube full of 
water over the roll of gauze. In this way tubes can be rilled 
with the gas which sodium turns out of the water. 

The gas which sodium turns out of water will 
burn. When one of the tubes which has been filled with the 
gas which sodium turns out of the water is covered with the 
thumb of the left hand before it is lifted out of the water, and 
while still held mouth downward a lighted taper, held in the 
right hand, is brought near to its mouth, on removing the thumb 
the gas burns with an almost colourless flame. It seems to be 
the same sort of gas as was got from steam by the action of 
heated iron ; it really is so. 

PREPARATION OF HYDROGEN 

149. Production of inflammable gas by the action of zinc upon an 
acid. Select a flask, or wide-mouthed bottle, and fit it up as is shown 
in Fig. 94. Be very careful that both the stopper and the tubes fit very 
closely. Into the flask put enough granulated zinc to cover the bottom. 
Pour some water upon the zinc. Arrange the delivery tube in the 
trough as shown. 

Pour a little sulphuric acid down the thistle-headed acid funnel, and 
be quite sure that the end of the funnel dips beneath the liquid in the 
flask. Do not collect bottles of the gas until you are sure all the air has 
been expelled, which you can find out in the following way : 

Fill a test-tube with water, and invert it over the end of the delivery 
tube. When it is full of gas, still holding it upside down, take it to a 
flame, which should not be near the flask you are using. Notice that 
there is a slight explosion. Continue this until the hydrogen burns 
quietly down the test-tube. 



XI WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 139 



When this happens, you may proceed to fill one or two bottles. 
When the bottles have been filled, it is better not to remove them from 
the water until you want to use them. 

Collect also a soda-water bottle half full of the gas. 

Caution. Be careful not to bring a light near the thistle-funnel, or 
tube delivering the gas, even when the action in the flask seems to have 
ceased, or a dangerous explosion may occur. 

Be careful also that none of the acid used gets upon your fingers or 
clothing. 

Usual method of preparing hydrogen. The gas 
which collects when steam is passed over red-hot iron comes 
off slowly, and it takes a long time to collect a sufficient amount 
of it to enable its properties to be easily examined. It would 




FIG. 94. When dilute acid is poured upon granulated zinc, a gas i< 
given off and can be collected in bottles. 



take too long to obtain bottles full of hydrogen by acting upon 
water with small pieces of sodium. When larger quantities of 
hydrogen are wanted quickly, dilute sulphuric acid is poured 
upon pieces of zinc ; the zinc gradually dissolves in the acid ; at 
the same time bubbles of a gas which burns, and is hydrogen, 
are given off very rapidly. This method of making the gas is 
generally made use of when enough hydrogen is required to 
examine its chief properties. 

A flask, or wide-mouthed bottle, is fitted up as shown in 
Fig. 94. The india-rubber stopper or cork with two holes 
through it must fit very closely. The thistle-headed acid 
funnel and the delivery tube, too, must pass tightly through 
the holes in the cork, for hydrogen at once finds out any leak, 



I 4 o EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



however small. Enough granulated zinc to cover the bottom 
of the bottle is put into it, and is covered with water. The end 
of the acid funnel must dip below the water when the cork is 
put into the neck of the bottle, or the hydrogen may escape by 
its means. 

Collection of hydrogen. So soon as the dilute sulphuric 
acid is poured down the acid funnel and reaches the zinc, 
hydrogen begins to come off. Before pouring it in, therefore, 
there must be something ready for collecting the gas. Some 
bottles are filled with water and inverted in the trough of water. 
A small amount of dilute sulphuric acid is then poured down 
the funnel, and the gas at once starts coining off, but none of it 
must be collected until all the air has been expelled and the 
hydrogen given off is quite pure. You have seen that this can 
be found out by filling a test-tube, over the water in the trough, 
with the gas in the usual way. To begin with, a slight explo- 
sion occurs when the test-tube of gas is held near a flame. 
But after several test-tubesful have been collected and tested 
in the same way, it will be found that 
the gas burns quietly down the tube. 
When this happens, one or two bottles 
may be filled with the hydrogen in the 
same way. 

PROPERTIES OF HYDROGEN 

150. Simple examination of hydrogen. 
Observe as many properties of hydrogen 
as you can by examining one of the bottles 
full of the gas. Notice that it is colourless 
and has no taste. 

Pure hydrogen has no smell, but the gas 
when prepared from ordinary sulphuric acid 
FIG. 95. -How to purify hydro- an( j z j nc nas a slightly disagreeable smell, 
gen before collect.ng .t. ^his is due to the presence of small quan- 

tities of another gas. This impurity may, 

however, be removed by passing the gas, before collecting it as 
described in the last section, through a bottle arranged as in Fig. 95, 
containing a little Condy's fluid. 

(The jars, or bottles, when taken from the trough, must be held 
mouth downwards as shown in Fig. 94. ) 

151. Inflammability of hydrogen. Test one jar of the gas by means 
of a lighted match or taper, as in Fig. 96. Observe that the gas burns 
around the mouth of the jar, that the flame of the taper is extinguished, 




WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 



141 





Fie.. 96. The hydrogen burns at the mouth of 
the bottle, but the taper is extinguished when 
inside the bottle of hydrogen. 



but when taken out it again becomes alight on passing through the 

flame of the burning hydrogen. 

152. Lightness of hydrogen. Take a jar or cylinder, A (Fig. 97), 

containing air only, and hold it mouth downwards in one hand. Take 

another jar or cylinder, filled 
with hydrogen, in the other 
hand, and bring it mouth 
downwards by the side of the 
first, then gradually bring it 
into position B. Now put 
the lower cylinder down, 
and apply a lighted taper to 
each jar. Show, by applying 
a light, that the jar which 
contained air now contains 
hydrogen, which passed up- 
wards from B. 

153. Explosion of a mix- 
ture of hydrogen and air. 
Take a strong soda-water 
bottle (egg-shaped), and half 
fill it with hydrogen, as de- 
scribed on p. 139. Wrap the 
bottle well in a duster, and 
hold it firmly. Take the 

bottle out of the water, so that the water in it runs out. The bottle is 

now filled with a mixture of air and 

hydrogen. Apply a light, and you will not 

fail to observe that an explosion results. 
154. The flame of burning hydrogen. 

Fit a straight tube drawn out to a point to 

a hydrogen generator, as shown in Fig. 98. 

After pouring a little sulphuric acid down 

the thistle-funnel, collect a test-tube of the 

gas issuing from the straight tube, and 

hold the mouth of the test-tube near a flame, 

which must be a few feet away fro>/f the 

generator. The gas will at first go off with 

a pop, or burn with a squeaking noise, but 

after two or three trials it will burn quietly, 

with a blue flame. ]Vhen you can cany 

this flame of burning hydrogen to the 

apparatus from which the gas is being 

produced, do so, and use it to ignite the 

gas escaping from the pointed tube. If you 

remember always to do this, there can be 

no danger, for when you are able to carry a flame of hydrogen in a 

test-tube of the gas, for a distance of two or three feet to the generating 

apparatus, you may be sure that the hydrogen issuing from the apparatus 

is not mixed with air. 




FIG. 97. Pouring a gas up- 
wards. The hydrogen from 
B passes up into A, and the 
air from A is driven out. 



142 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



Light the hydrogen in this way. 

Observe that it burns with a pale blue flame, which after a time 
becomes yellow. This coloration is due to the glass becoming hot, and 
some of the substances in it being burnt in the flame of hydrogen. 



Physical properties of hydrogen. Hydrogen is a gas 
which possesses no colour, no taste, and no smell. It is very 
much lighter than air. For this reason 
soap-bubbles, or balloons filled with it, 
rise in the air when free to move. It 
has been found by many carefully per- 
formed experiments that hydrogen is the 
lightest substance known. The weight 
of a unit volume, or litre, of hydrogen is 
consequently taken as the standard with 
which chemists compare the densities of 
other gases. 

Hydrogen will burn, but it will 
not allow things to burn in it. 
When a lighted match is brought to the 
end of a delivery tube, from which pure 
hydrogen is issuing, the gas catches fire 
and continues to burn with a flame which 
is at first almost colourless, but very soon 
changes to a bright golden yellow colour, 
which is due to the sodium contained in 
the glass. Hydrogen is therefore said to 
be combustible. 

If a jar of hydrogen is held with its 
mouth downwards, and a lighted match 
(or a piece of taper) fixed to the end of a 
wire is pushed up into the jar, the hydro- 
gen, as in other cases, catches fire, and 

continues to burn at the mouth of the jar ; but the flame of 
the match or taper is put out, showing that things will not 
burn when surrounded by hydrogen gas. If the match or 
taper is slowly drawn out of the jar, it will be again ignited as it 
passes through the hydrogen flame at the mouth of the jar. 
Thus, though hydrogen is a combustible gas, it will not support 
combustion in ordinary circumstances. 




FIG. 98. Arrangement for 
obtaining a flame of 
hydrogen. 



XI WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 143 

Hydrogen being lighter than air can be poured 
upwards. When you wish to pour water from one vessel to 
another, you know very well that the vessel into which water is 
to be poured is placed below, and the vessel from which the 
water is to be poured is placed above and tilted. This is 
because water is heavier, bulk for bulk, than air. Similarly, if 
it were required to pour a gas considerably heavier than air 
from one vessel to another, like the gas which is produced when 
carbon is burnt in oxygen, you would proceed in just the same 
way as with water. Since, however, hydrogen is much lighter 
than air, the order of things must be exactly reversed. The 
vessel into which hydrogen is to be poured must be placed 
above and be inverted, while the vessel from which the gas is to 
be poured must be below and held with its mouth upwards. 
This method of pouring hydrogen from one jar to another is 
shown in Fig. 97, and is always used when it is required to pour 
a gas lighter than air from one vessel to another. 

COMPOUND FORMED BY BURNING HYDROGEN 

155. Liquid formed by burning hydrogen. Arrange a flask or 
bottle, as before, for the production of hydrogen. Pass the gas through 
a tube containing chloride of calcium, in order to dry it thoroughly. 
Fill a test-tube with the gas, as already described, and when the gas 
will burn, use the flame to ignite the gas issuing from the tube, and 
allow it to burn under a retort, which is kept cool by a stream of water 
flowing in where the stopper is generally put, and out at the end of the 
neck. Observe the formation, on the outside of the retort, of a clear 
liquid, which collects and drops into a clean beaker placed to receive it 
(Fig. 99). 

In this way obtain sufficient of the liquid to enable its properties to 
be examined. Much time is saved if a number of pupils all work at 
the same experiment, and the liquid formed by all the hydrogen 
flames is added together. 

156. Nature of liquid formed by burning hydrogen. As already 
learnt, proceed to find the boiling point, freezing point, and density of 
the liquid formed when hydrogen burns in the air. The boiling point 
is found to be 100 C., the freezing point o C, and the density I. The 
liquid is consequently pure water. 

Evaporate some of the liquid in a basin, and notice that no residue 
is left. 

Test some of the liquid with litmus paper. Observe that it is neutral. 

The burning of hydrogen. When an apparatus is ar- 
ranged as in Fig. 99, so that a hydrogen flame burns near a 



144 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



surface which is kept cold, it is found that a liquid is con- 
tinuously formed, which, as the experiment proceeds, collects 
drop by drop in a beaker put to catch it. Since this liquid is 
formed by the burning of a perfectly dry gas, it must be a 
substance which hydrogen forms with something out of the air. 
To be sure that dry hydrogen is burnt, the gas is first passed 
through a tube containing lumps of calcium chloride, a sub- 
stance which has the power of absorbing moisture. 

The liquid formed as hydrogen burns is water. 
When the liquid produced by burning dry hydrogen in air is 
examined, it is found to have all the properties of pure water. 

FROM WATER SUPPLY 




FIG. 99. Method of obtaining and collecting water by burning hydrogen 
gas in air. 

Thus, its boiling point is 100 C., its freezing point o C., and its 
density is i; when evaporated to dryness, no residue is left 
behind, and it does not change the colour of a litmus paper used 
for testing it. 

These, as you know, are all characteristics of pure water, and 
it is therefore quite certain that the liquid which is formed as 
hydrogen burns is water. 

Hydrogen in burning uses up one-fifth of the air. 
When hydrogen burns in an enclosed quantity of air over water, 
it is found that after a time the flame goes out, and the water 



xi WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 145 

rises in the vessel in which the air was enclosed to take the 
place of that part of the air with which the hydrogen combines. 
If the amount of water which entered the flask in this way 
is measured, it tells the amount of oxygen in the air in the flask. 
By filling the flask with water and measuring it, the volume of 
air the whole flask holds can be found. On comparing the 
amount of water which rises into the vessel with the capacity of 
the vessel, it is found to be one-fifth. 

This proves that hydrogen, like other combustible substances, 
combines with the active part of the air when it burns, and 
you see that the conclusion arrived at in the last paragraph 
was quite correct. 

Hydrogen and oxygen will not combine at ordinary 
temperatures. If no light is near, hydrogen gas may escape 
into the air without any danger, and with no accompanying 
chemical change. This shows that the two gases, hydrogen 
and oxygen, do not combine at ordinary temperatures. If they 
did so unite, every bubble of hydrogen which came into contact 
with the air would catch fire, and form a small quantity of 
water by combining with the oxygen of the air. The same facts 
are noticed when hydrogen and air are mixed in a soda-water 
bottle. The gases do not affect one another, but when a flame 
is brought near to the mixture combination at once takes place 
and a loud explosion is heard. The heat of the flame raises their 
temperatures enough to cause the two gases to combine. 

WATER CONTAINS HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN 

157. Action of hydrogen on heated copper oxide. Arrange an 
apparatus like that shown in Fig. 100, in which a flask A for making 
hydrogen is connected with the bottle B containing strong sulphuric 
acid. The passage of the hydrogen through the strong acid completely 
dries the gas. A small amount of the black oxide of copper is placed 
in the hard glass tube AC which is about i'5 centimetres in diameter, 
and fitted with the tube D in the manner shown. When you are sure 
that pure dry hydrogen is escaping from the open end of D, heat the 
oxide of copper in the tube by means of the burner E. In a few 
minutes moisture will be seen to collect in the tube D, and presently to 
drop into the dish put to collect it. 

Examine the residue in the hard glass tube, and note its change to a 
reddish colour, due to the presence of metallic copper. 

Rearrange the apparatus, using the U' tUD e G in the place of the 
tube D. The D' 1 "^ G, containing lumps of calcium chloride, is 
employed to collect the water formed. 

EXP. HYG. L 



146 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



Water is formed when hydrogen is passed over 
heated oxide of copper. When pure hydrogen, which has 
been dried by passing it through some substance which very 
readily absorbs moisture, such as strong sulphuric acid, or cal- 
cium chloride, is passed over heated black oxide of copper, the 
oxide is found to lose in weight, giving up something to the 
hydrogen. With this " something " the hydrogen forms water. 
The oxide of copper is at the same time changed into a reddish 
powder which on examination is found to be copper. 

We cannot be wrong, therefore, in supposing that the some- 




HYDROGEN STRONG 

FLASK SULPHURIC ACID 

FlG. 100. When hydrogen is passed over hot oxide of copper, it extracts 
the oxygen to form water, and leaves copper behind. 

thing taken out of the oxide is the active constituent of the air, 
with which copper unites when it changes into copper rust or 
oxide. Another name for this active constituent is, as you know, 
oxygen. Hence, it may be said that hydrogen in passing over 
heated copper oxide takes oxygen from it, and combines with it 
to form water. Or, water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen. 



SUMMARY. 

Action between water and iron. If bright iron is left in water it 
becomes rusty, but if all the air is first driven out of the water, the iron 
does not rust. When steam is passed over heated iron, the iron rusts, 
and an inflammable gas known as hydrogen can be collected. Iron 
rust has been seen to contain oxygen, and it seems that iron takes 
oxygen out of the steam to form rust, and that the hydrogen collected 



X! WATER AND ITS CONSTITUENTS 147 



is another constituent of the steam. Steam apparently consists of 
hydrogen and oxygen. 

Action of sodium on water. When sodium is thrown on water, it 
takes oxygen out of the water, combining with it to form a rust of 
lodium, and drives out of the water an inflammable gas, hydrogen. 
The rust of sodium dissolves in the water, forming a solution which 
turns a red litmus paper bhie. 

Larger quantities of hydrogen are prepared by acting upon sul- 
phuric acid with zinc. It must always be borne in mind that a mixture 
of hydrogen and air is highly explosive. 

Properties of hydrogen. When pure, hydrogen has no colour, no 
taste, and no smell. It is the lightest gas known. It burns in the air ; 
but burning substances put into it are extinguished. 

When dry hydrogen is burnt in air, it unites with oxygen to form 
water. 

Hydrogen and oxygen will not unite at ordinary temperatures. 

When hydrogen, which has been freed from moisture, is passed over 
heated copper oxide, it unites with the oxygen of the oxide to form 
water. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XL 

1. Describe how, if you were provided with some iron tacks, you 
could obtain hydrogen from steam. 

2. What can be learnt as to the composition of water by passing 
steam over heated iron ? 

3. How would you show that the gas obtained by passing steam over 
heated iron is the same as that turned out of water when a piece of 
sodium is thrown upon it ? 

4. State your reasons for believing that water contains hydrogen and 
oxygen. 

5. Give reasons why, in preparing hydrogen by means of zinc and 
sulphuric acid : (a) the bottom of the thistle funnel must be under the 
liquid in the flask ; (b) the apparatus must be air-tight. 

6. How would you proceed to obtain a few jars full of pure- 
hydrogen ? 

7. Describe some experiments which show that hydrogen is lighter 
than air. 

8. How would you show : (a) that hydrogen will burn ? (/>) that 
hydrogen will not allow substances to burn in it ? 

9. In what respects is the burning of a jet of hydrogen like, or 
unlike, the burning of a candle? 

10 What substances are formed when hydrogen burns in air ? How 
could you collect and lest the products of combustion ? 

II. First, some copper is heated to redness in a crucible freely 
exposed to the air ; what happens ? The solid is next taken out of the 
crucible, placed in a hard glass tube, heated, and dry hydrogen passed 
over it. What exactly happens in this case ? 



L 2 



CHAPTER XII 
NATURAL WATERS 



CONSTITUENTS OF NATURAL WATERS 

158. Evaporation of different natural waters. Measure out 250 
c.c. (that is i litre) of clear rain-water, tap- water, and sea- water, into 
evaporating basins, the weights of which have been determined. 
Evaporate to dryness in each case on a sand-bath, taking care to lose no 

liquid by spurting. When 
the evaporation is complete, 
and the residue (if any) left 
behind is dry, allow the 
basins to cool, and again 
weigh. The increase in 
weight of each basin repre- 
sents the amount of dissolved 
material in equal volumes of 
each of the kinds of natural 
water. 

159. Purification of water 
= by distillation. Distil some 

lap-water and sea-water, as 

HE? described on p. 85. Ob- 

p= r serve that in both cases pure, 

or distilled water, is obtained. 

160. Gases dissolved in 
water. Completely fill a 

gallon tin can or a large flask with tap-water, and attach a cork and 
delivery tube which has also been filled with water, dipping the tube 
under an inverted cylinder of water over a pneumatic trough (Fig. 101). 
I [cat the flask by means of the flame of a lalx>ratory burner, and 
observe that the dissolved gases are driven out of the water. Collect 
these gases in the ordinary way. When you have enough, test, first, 
with a little lime-water, which being turned milky shows there is carbon 
dioxide in the gas ; and, then with a lighted taper. Since the flame is 
not extinguished, the gas collected also contains oxygen. 

161. Filtering through sand. Clean a flower-pot, and plug the hole 
at the bottom with a piece of sponge. Place sand, with pebbles or 




CH. XII 



NATURAL WATERS 



149 




.WATER 
HARCOAL 
OR PEBBLES 
SAND 
CHARCOAL 
OR PEBBLES 



charcoal, in the pot, as shown in Fig. 102. Support the pot on a tripod 
stand, and place a tumbler beneath the hole. Pour on to the top 
some muddy water from the gutter, and notice that the water which 
trickles through and is caught in the tumbler is comparatively clear. 

Natural waters. Pure water does not occur naturally on 
the earth. This is because of the great solvent power which 

water possesses. At the 

moment rain is formed it 

consists of pure water, being 

really distilled water which 

is formed in just the same 

way as when this liquid is 

prepared in the laboratory 

by the condensation of steam. 

The heat of the sun converts 

the water from lakes, rivers, 

seas, and other bodies of 

water, into vapour, which in 

the higher or colder parts of 

the atmosphere is cooled and 

again forms water. Yet no 

sooner is the rain formed 

than it begins to dissolve 

various substances. In its passage through the air it takes up 

varying amounts of the gases which make up the atmosphere, 

such as oxygen and the gas called carbon dioxide, which is 

formed whenever carbon combines with oxygen, either in burning 

or in the body. When the surface of the earth is reached, the 

water dissolves portions of all the soluble ingredients out of 

the soil and the underlying rocks. The most soluble bodies 

are, of course, dissolved to the greatest extent. The solvent 

power of water is considerably increased by the presence of 

the carbon dioxide it dissolves, partly from the air and partly 

from the soil. 

Spring or tap water. Spring and tap water are often the 
same liquid. Tap-water is simply that which is supplied 
to our houses from the large iron pipe or water main which is 
buried in the road. The water from the reservoir, which the 
main contains, is sometimes only spring-water which has been 
brought from a distance. I is dissolved substances have not been 



FIG. 102. A simple means of filtering 
water. 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



ONE GALLON OF PURE 
WATER WEIGHS 70.000 GRAINS 



removed from it, though its suspended impurities have generally 
been got rid of by filtering. This filtering, which has to be done 
on a very large scale, often takes place through beds of sand. 
When the properties of, and dissolved substances in, such tap- 
water are examined, therefore, a knowledge of spring-water is 
obtained. The amount of residue left in the basin when tap- 
water is evaporated depends upon where the water was brought 

from. Some tap-water, such 
as that which has been 
drawn from a chalk country, 
like parts of Kent, Sussex, 
and Hampshire, contains 
a greal deal of dissolved 
solids ; while that of Man- 
chester, for example, which 
comes from the Lake dis- 
trict, where the rocks are 
hard and only dissolved with 
difficulty, leaves very little 
residue when evaporated. 
Though tap-water which 
contains a small amount 
only of dissolved material 
is the best for washing pur- 
poses, the dissolved sub- 
stances in other specimens 
of tap-water are not neces- 
sarily injurious to health 
when used to drink. On the 
contrary they are often bene- 
ficial ; it is said that water 

which contains no chalk dissolved in it is not good for children, 
because they require this substance in considerable quantities 
to build up their bones. 

Sea-water. As everybody knows, sea-water is often called 
salt water. The water of the ocean contains sufficient dissolved 
matter in it to make it taste, while in spring, rain, and rivet- 
water the quantity is so small that the water is tasteless ; for 
this reason the water of springs and rivers is often called fresh 
water. 



SOLIDS IN 

DEE WATER, 3 GRAINS 



SOLIDS IN 
THAMES WATER ,23j GRAINS 



SOLIDS IN 

SEA W^TER, 
2450 GRAINS 



FIG. 103. Comparative weights of a gallon 
of pure water, and of the solids found 
in river and sea water;.. 



xn NATURAL WATERS 151 

Streams and rivers are continually flowing into the sea, and 
carrying into it the substances they have dissolved out of the 
land. Evaporation is going on unceasingly from the surface of 
the ocean, robbing it of pure water in the form of water vapour, 
with the result that there is an accumulation of soluble material 
in the water which is left. It would consequently seem at first 
that the sea must every day become salter. This is certainly 
not the case. It would be so if it were not for the 'animals and 
plants which live in the ocean, and extract from the water some 
of its dissolved material to build up their solid parts. 

Gases dissolved in water. When water is heated in a 
glass vessel, minute bubbles are seen on the inside of the glass. 
These are bubbles of gas driven out of the water. By suitable 
means the gases dissolved in water can be collected and 
analysed, and when this is done it is found that they consist 
chiefly of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide, which are the 
essential constituents of air, though the proportions in which 
they occur are different. Air does not, in fact, dissolve in water 
as a whole, but its constituents are dissolved separately, each 
according to its solubility. A litre of river water contains about 
4 to 8 cubic centimetres of oxygen, 12 to 18 cubic centimetres 
of nitrogen, and 2 to 25 cubic centimetres of carbon dioxide. 

The oxygen dissolved in river-water is necessary for the life 
of fishes and other aquatic animals. When a river receives a 
large amount of refuse of various kinds, oxygen is used up 
during the decay of this matter, and is frequently diminished to 
such an extent that fishes die in the water from suffocation. 
The water of the Thames shows very clearly the difference in 
the proportion of oxygen at various points. Above London, it 
contains about 7 cubic centimetres of oxygen per litre ; at 
Hammersmith the proportion at the same time has been found 
to be less than 5 cubic centimetres per litre ; at Somerset House 
close to London City only 1*5 cubic centimetres of oxygen 
per litre occurs, and at Woolwich only 0*25, that is, J, of a cubic 
centimetre per litre. Several miles below London, after more 
gas has been absorbed, the proportion of oxygen again rises, 
and fishes are able to live in the water. 

Impurities in "water. Oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon 
dioxide are not impurities in water ; in fact, water which does 
not contain these gases dissolved in them is flat and insipid. 



152 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



Mention has already been made of the mineral substances 
dissolved in water, but even these, though often undesirable, do 
not always pollute water. There is evidence that water of exces- 
sive hardness may interfere with the healthy working of certain 
parts of the body in the course of time, while, as has been 
mentioned, water with little or no chalk dissolved in it is said 
to be bad for children ; but, with these exceptions, hard and 
soft waters, ' if free from deleterious organic substances, are 
equally wholesome. 

The sources of danger in water are the organic substances 
present. They are of animal or vegetable origin. They are not 
very easily recognised by a simple chemical test, and water 
which is suspected to be bad can only be tested satisfactorily by 
an analytical chemist. 

In addition to the chemical examination, suspected water 
should also be examined for the presence of the micro-organisms 
of diseases. Water frequently becomes infected with disease 
germs from sewage and other sources of contamination, and if it 
is drunk it may be the means of producing an epidemic. 
Typhoid fever and cholera are two diseases which are known to 
be communicated to people by water polluted with the germs of 
these diseases. 

Purification of water. Water supplied to towns is first 
filtered through sand, which removes from 93 to 99 per cent, of 
the bacterial life. Upon this subject, Professor Percy Frank- 
land, a distinguished authority upon micro-organisms in water, 
says : l " The river Thames, in its raw condition, before under- 
going any treatment at the hands of the water companies, has 
on the average throughout an entire year, as many as 20,000 
micro-organisms in one cubic centimetre (or about 20 drops) of 
water. Now, it used to be formerly supposed that the processes 
of purification as carried on at the works of the water companies, 
which consist in storage in large reservoirs with subsequent 
filtration through sand, were of little if any use at all. But on 
examining this same water after it has been in the hands of the 
water companies, I found that it contained, on delivery from the 
mains, in the same number of drops, on an average for the same 
period of time, only 400. We have here, then, the efficiency of 
sand filtration put practically to the test, and the assurance that 
1 Our Secret Friends and Foes (S.P.C.K.). 



NATURAL WATERS 



153 



it forms a very material protective measure against our infection 
by water-carried microbes." 

Filters. Water may become infected with disease germs 
after its passage from the sand-beds of the 
water companies, so that there is some justi- 
fication for filtering it when it is received from 
the tap. Water which is obtained from wells 
or springs is so liable to contamination that 
it ought always to be filtered or boiled before 
drinking. The ordinary filter is, however, 
worse than useless so far as removing harm- 
ful microbes is concerned. The carbon, 
spongy iron, or similar material through 
which the water passes, removes sand or 
other suspended particles, but it can no 
more prevent the pas- 
sage of disease-germs 
than a sieve can stop 
water from passing 
through it. Moreover, 
unless the material 
used in the filter is 
frequently cleansed 01 
changed, it becomes a 
veritable forcing-house 
for micro - organisms 
and other organic im- 
purities, and so the last condition of the 
water of the filter is worse than the first. 
The perfect filter is almost a "castle in 
the air," for if the rate of filtration is rapid, 
the filter is not effective, and if it is effec- 
tive as regards the prevention of the pas- 
sage of bacteria, it is too slow of action 
to be of much practical use. The best 
filter is that known as the Pasteur-Cham- 
berland, in which the water filters through 

a cylinder of unglazed porcelain. This is made in a variety of 
shapes, the most useful being made to fit upon the tap of the 
water service, so that the pressure ot the mains forces the water 





FIG. 104. Pasteur- 
Chamberland Filter, 
attached to a water 
service tap. 



FIG. 105. Pasteur-Cham- 
berland Table Filter, 
with decanter to collect 
the filtered water which 
passes through the por- 
celain cylinder. 



1 54 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



through it at the rate of about two or three quarts an hour 
(Fig. 104). When this pressure is not utilised, the water only 
passes through the filter in drops. For instance, a table filter 
of the form shown in Fig. 105, and having a capacity of three 
pints, will filter about four pints of water per day, or a little 
more, according to the number of times it is refilled. 

In the absence of a filter, the best precaution to take in the 
case of water suspected to be bad is to boil it. Boiling for five 
minutes is sufficient to destroy practically all micro-organisms ; 
indeed, most of such organisms are killed by a temperature con- 
siderably lower than that at which water boils. 

HARD AND SOFT WATERS 

162. Solution of chalk in water. Pass carbon dioxide (obtained 
from an apparatus like that shown in Fig. 106 containing pieces of 




FIG. 106. When carbon dioxide is passed into clear lime-water, the 
water turns milky, and afterwards clear. The milkmess is again 
obtained by boiling the lime-water. 

marble on which hydrochloric acid has been poured) into clear lime- 
water until the solution is clear again, after first becoming milky. 

163. Effect of boiling water in which chalk is dissolved. Boil a 
part of the clear solution in a test-tube. Observe the return of the 
milkiness. What is the cause ? 



NATURAL WATERS 



155 



Boil in a flask a little natural water which is hard because of the 
presence of chalk ; observe that the water becomes milky. 

164. Soap solution to test the hardness of water. Dissolve some 
Castile soap in spirits of wine and label the solution " soap solution." 
Add a few drops of soap solution to distilled water. Shake the mixture. 
Notice a lather is easily formed. 

165. Temporary and permanent hardness of water. (a) Add soap 
solution to some of the clear solution obtained by passing carbon dioxide 
for some time through lime-water (Expt. 162). Shake the mixture, 
and observe that a lather is formed only after a considerable quantity 
of soap solution has 

been added. 

(b) Similarly, ob- 
serve that it is difficult 
to make a lather with 
a solution of calcium 
chloride. 

(c) Boil portions of 
the solution in the 
last two experiments 
before adding the 
soap solution. Soap 
lathers in the first 
solution quite easily 
after it has been 
boiled ; boiling makes 
no difference to the 
second solution. 

166. Hardness of 
s e a-w a t e r. Try 
whether the soap solu- 
tion forms a lather 
when shaken up with 
sea-water. Does boil- 
ing make any differ- 
ence? 

167. Measurement 

of the hardness of water with soap solution. (a) Pour some soap 
solution into a burette. From this add soap solution (a drop or two 
at a time) to about a wine-glassful of rain-water in a bottle ; insert the 
stopper and shake vigorously after each addition. When a lather forms 
which remains for five minutes, cease to add soap solution, and note the 
volume of it used. 

(b) Treat an equal quantity of spring- water in the same way and note 
the amount of soap solution required. 

(c) By taking various samples of water, equal in quantity, and treating 
them as described, you may roughly compare the facility with which 
they form a lather. The harder the water the more is the amount of 
soap solution required. 

168. Hard water softened by the addition of .lime. Into water 




FIG. 107. Carbon dioxide is produced by the action of 
dilute acid upon "fur" from a kettle, and may be 
poured from the flask into a beaker containing lime- 
water, which it turns milky. 



156 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



which contains dissolved carbonate of lime pour clear lime-water 
until the water becomes quite milky. Then filter. Find how much 
soap solution is required to produce a lather which remains for five 
minutes in 5 c - c ' f the clear water. Test an equal volume of the 
water which has not been treated with lime-water in the same way. 

169. " Fur " from a kettle compared with chalk. (a) Collect some 
of the crust or "fur" from the inside of a tea-kettle; compare its 
appearance with that of chalk. 

(6) Put a small quantity of clear lime-water into the bottom of a tumbler 
or test-glass. Put some of the " fur" into a small flask, and pour on 
it a little dilute hydrochloric acid. Note the effervescence which takes 
place. Tilt the flask over the tumbler so that the escaping gas will 
flow from the flask to the tumbler, taking care that no liquid runs out 
of the flask. Shake the tumbler containing the lime-water. Note that 
the latter turns milky (Fig. 107). 

(c) Put a little of the fur into a wide test-tube and pour upon it dilute 
acid. Plunge a lighted taper into the tube, or a burning wood splinter. 
Note that it is extinguished. 

Perform similar experiments with chalk ; notice similar results. 

170. How to obtain a deposit of " fur " from spring- water. Put a 
short piece of clean glass tubing into a kettle which is in constant use. 
At the end of a week or two examine it. Break it, and notice that fur 
is only deposited on the outside. 

Hard and soft waters. It is a fact familiar to every one 
that soap lathers very easily in some waters and not at all in 
others. If rain-water be used the lathering takes place with 
great ease, while with the water supplied to some towns a lather 
can only be made with difficulty ; and if we attempt the same 
process in sea-water there is no lathering at all. Those waters 
in which soap lathers easily are said to be soft. When this is 
not the case, the water is spoken of as hard. 

Soft waters. Water containing no dissolved mineral matter, 
or water which is pure, dissolves soap easily, and when the 
solution is shaken up a lather is at once formed. 

Hard waters. Hard waters always contain dissolved 
mineral substances. These substances may either be soluble in 
pure water itself, or only in water which has first dissolved carbon 
dioxide. When water is boiled it is hotter than when it is taken 
from a spring or tap, and as hot water usually dissolves more of 
a substance than cold, you would hardly expect mineral sub- 
stances in water to be given up when the water containing them 
boils. But this does happen, and the reason is that boiling 
drives out the carbon dioxide from solution in the water. 

Certain solids which are soluble in water owing to the presence 



xii NATURAL WATERS 157 

of carbon dioxide, are not dissolved by pure water ; hence when 
the water is boiled and the gas is driven off, these substances 
are deposited upon the sides of the vessel in which the boiling 
is done. 

These facts enable us to divide hardness in waters into two 
classes (i) Hardness which is not removed by boiling, called 
permanent; (2) Hardness which is removed by boiling, called 
temporary. 

How natural waters become hard. No sooner is the 
water vapour in the air condensed into rain than its work of 
solution begins. First, the rain in its passage to the earth dissolves 
portions of the gases in the air. The most soluble of these 
gases are oxygen and carbon dioxide, and evidently there will 
be most of these dissolved. When the surface of the earth is 
reached, the solution of many more substances begins. The 
amount of each material dissolved, of course, depends upon its 
solubility. 

Of these substances dissolved some are soluble in pure water, 
others dissolve only in water containing carbon dioxide. The 
hardness to which the first class gives rise is permanent, that 
caused by the second class temporary. 

"Ways of getting rid of temporary hardness. First, 
there is the plan of boiling, which has been already mentioned. 
But it is quite clear that when engineers wish to soften the supply 
of water to a town they cannot boil the whole amount. Another 
process is adopted. The object in view is to get rid of the carbon 
dioxide in the water. If this can be done, some of the substances 
in solution in the water become insoluble, and are given up. What 
the engineer often does is to have lime put into the water. The 
lime combines with the carbon dioxide to form chalk. The 
carbon dioxide being removed from the water, it can no longer 
dissolve the carbonate of lime, and this, together with the chalk 
formed, is thrown clown. 

Ways of getting rid of permanent hardness. Boiling 
is of no use in removing hardness when the water is per- 
manently hard. But there are two other ways of softening 
permanently hard water. 

The first plan is employed by the washerwoman. She puts 
soda into the water. The chemist's name for soda is sodium 
carbonate. When the sodium carbonate comes in contact with 



158 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



the substance which cause's permanent hardness, a chemical 
change takes place, and the originally soluble substance causing 
the hardness is changed into a compound insoluble in water, 
which is consequently thrown down. The water is thus softened. 
The substance in solution in water which usually causes per- 
manent hardness is calcium sulphate, one form of which is 
plaster of Paris. When washing-soda comes into contact with 
this compound, the calcium sulphate is changed into calcium 
carbonate, the chemist's name for chalk, which, being insoluble 
in pure water, is thrown down as a precipitate, and so removed. 
The second plan is called distillation^ and is equally useful in 
both kinds of hardness. 

Reason for getting rid of hardness. One object in 
view in getting rid of every kind of hardness is to diminish the 
amount of soap necessary in using water for cleansing processes. 
When soft water is used, the soap immediately dissolves in it, 
causing a lather at once. When hard water is employed, a 
considerable quantity of soap is first used up in combining with 
the chalk and other substances, which render the water hard, to 
form the curdy material seen at the top of hard water after soap 
has been used in it. This curdy matter 
is insoluble in water, and represents so 
much wasted soap. 

Furring of kettles. An examina- 
tion of the inside of a kettle which has 
been in use for some time generally re- 
veals the presence of a white chalk-like 
deposit. If 3. little of this white incrus- 




chiefly of chalk. tation is removed and examined, it is 

found to be brittle, and when treated with 

an acid it effervesces and gives off a gas which puts out flames. 
But this is just what takes place when an acid is poured 
upon chalk. The fur inside the kettle z.r chalk. It was present 
in the water which has been from time to time boiled in 
the kettle. The solubility of the chalk depended upon the 
carbon dioxide dissolved in the water, and when the \v;ik i 
was boiled the carbon dioxide was driven out, and the water 
was therefore unable to dissolve the chalk, which was conse- 
quently thrown down on the inside of the kettle to make the 
white deposit. 



XII NATURAL WATERS 159 



SUMMARY. 

Bain-water has been naturally distilled, and is, therefore, at the 
moment of its formation, pure water -free from dissolved matter. 

In its passage through the air it dissolves oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon 
dioxide. The last-named aids the water in dissolving solid matter from 
rocks and soils. 

If the rocks through which the water passes contain easily soluble 
substances, the water will contain much dissolved material, while water 
which passes over hard insoluble rocks contains little solid matter in 
solution. 

Sea-water contains a much larger amount of dissolved matter than 
spring-water. While rivers pour their waters into the sea, the sea-water 
is evaporated, and the dissolved solids remain behind. 

Plants and animals are continually removing dissolved solids from 
sea-water. 

Dissolved solids. A gallon of pure water weighs 70,000 grains. A 
gallon ot filtered Dee water contains only 3 grains of dissolved matter in 
it. A gallon of filtered Thames water contains 23^ grains, and a gallon 
of filtered sea- water 2450 grains (5^ ozs. nearly). 

Dissolved gases. A litre of river water contains about 4 to 8 cubic 
centimetres of oxygen, 12 to 18 c.c. of nitrogen, and 2 to 25 c.c. of 
carbon dioxide. 

Impurities in water. Dissolved solids and gases usually do not 
make water unwholesome. Organic substances, whether animal or 
vegetable, make the water deleterious especially if such impurities are 
of the nature of the micro-organisms of disease. 

Filtering. Filtering through sand greatly reduces the number of 
micro-organisms, and is very much to be recommended. 

Most filters used in the household are worse than useless. The best 
is the Pasteur-Chamberland filter. To boil water for five minutes is 
sufficient to destroy practically all micro-organisms. 

Soft waters are those in which soap lathers easily. 

Hard waters are those containing dissolved solids which use up soap 
without making a lather. 

Hardness in water is of two kinds : (a) Permanent, caused chiefly 
by the presence of calcium sulphate, which can be got rid of only by 
adding washing-soda, or by distillation. (6) Temporary, caused chiefly 
by carbonate of lime, and got rid of by boiling or by adding lime. 

Hard water requires more soap to form a lather than soft water ; the 
mineral substances unite with the first portion of soap to form a useless 
curd. 

Furring of kettles and boilers is due to the deposition of carbonate 
of lime from the writer, when carbon dioxide is driven off by boiling. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XII. 

1. Spring and river water are not pure. Describe how you prove 
this and determine the quantity of dissolved solids in a gallon of each. 

2. Sea- water has a disagreeable taste. Why is this ? How do you 



160 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. xn 

account for the facts that : (a) All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea 
is not full, (b) The amount of dissolved solids in sea-water does not 
increase ? 

3. How would you proceed to show that : (a) Rain-water is free from 
dissolved solids, (d) Sea- water contains very much dissolved material ? 

4. Describe an experiment to show that hard water requires more 
soap to form a lather than soft water. 

5. What is the cause of hardness in water, and how may it be 
removed ? 

6. What is the reason for sometimes adding washing-soda to water ? 
How does the soda affect the water ? 

7. Why are waters sometimes hard, and in what ways does their 
hardness differ ? 

8. After washing my hands in spring-water with soap, I noticed a 
curd or scum on the water ; account for this. What would have hap- 
pened had I used rain-water, and why ? 

9. River-water always contains dissolved gases. What are these 
gases ? Whence do they come ? What is usually the amount present ? 
What useful purpose do all, or any of them, serve ? 

10. What are the usual impurities of river-water? Distinguish 
between an impurity and a dissolved constituent of water. 

11. What are the advantages of filtering a town's supply of water 
through beds of sand ? 

12. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of ordinary household 
niters. 

13. What procedure would you adopt if you had reason to suspect 
that the water supply to your house was contaminated with organic 
impurities ? 

14. Draw and describe the Pasteur-Chamberland filter. 

15. Account for the " fur" which sometimes collects in kettles and 
boilers. 

1 6. Why are some waters described as " hard " and others as " soft " ? 
Which are better for cleansing purposes, and why ? 



CHAPTER XIII 
CARBON DIOXIDE 



BURNING OF CARBON 

171. Carbon in organic substances. Heat a series of organic sub- 
stances, such as meat, wood, potato, egg, &c., in a crucible, and 
notice in all cases the production of a black residue, consisting largely 
of carbon. Heat more strongly, and observe that it burns away, 
leaving an almost colourless ash. 

172. Carbon dioxide produced by burning charcoal and wood. (a) 
Heat strongly a piece of charcoal in a closed hard glass test-tube, and 
show that without air it does not burn. 

(b) Suspend a piece of glowing charcoal in a bottle containing lime- 
water. Shake up, and show that the lime-water is turned milky. Carbon 
dioxide can always be distinguished by this action upon lime-water. 

173. Carbon dioxide in air. Pour some clear lime water into a 
blue dinner plate, or some other shallow vessel of a dark colour. Leave 
it exposed to the atmosphere for 

a little while. Notice the thin 
white scum formed on the top. 
The carbon dioxide in the air 
has turned the top layer of liquid 
milky. 

174. Character of air changed 
by breathing. Fit two bottles 
with corks and tubes, as shown 
in Fig. 109. See that the corks 
are air-tight. Put some clear 
lime-water into each bottle. 
Place the tube C, or an india- 
rubber tube leading from it, in 
your mouth. When you suck at 
the tube, air is drawn in through 
the glass tube which dips into 

the lime-water in the bottle A. When, however, you blow instead of 
sucking, your breath passes out through the tube which dips into the 
lime-water in the bottle B. Notice that the lime-water in A remains 




FIG. 109. Arrangement for showing that 
carbon dioxide is among the gases 
breathed out from the lungs. 



EXP. HYG. 



M 



162 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 




almost clear, but that in B is rendered milky by the air you breathe out. 

You thus see that fresh air has little effect upon lime-water, but breathed 

air quickly turns clear lime-water milky. 

175. Oxygen from plants. Take a bunch of fresh watercress, or 

water- weeds, and put it into a beaker or glass jar completely filled with 

water saturated with carbon 
dioxide. Cover the plants 
with a funnel nearly as wide 
as the jar, as shown in Fig. 
no. Fill a test-tube with 
water, and invert it over the 
funnel. If properly managed 
there should at first be no 
gas in the test-tube. Place 
the jar in bright sunlight for 
an hour or two, and then 
examine it. You will notice 
bubbles of a gas have col- 
lected at the top of the tube. 
Test the gas with a glowing 
splinter of wood. It is found 
to be oxygen. 

176. Plants in sunlight 
and in darkness. Repeat 
the whole experiment, but, 
instead of putting the bottle 
in bright sunlight, place it in 

the dark. Observe that in such circumstances no bubbles of oxygen 

are formed. 

Gas formed when any kind of carbon, or any com- 
bustible substance containing carbon, is burnt in 
air. When things such as candles, oil, gas, and wood are 
burnt either in the air or in pure oxygen, a colourless gas with 
no smell is produced, which has the power of turning lime-water 
milky. All these substances contain, in one form or another, a 
substance called carbon. The gas produced when these sub- 
stances burn is called carbon dioxide, or carbonic acid gas. 
The same gas is produced by burning carbon in air or oxygen. 
In fact, whenever a substance rich in carbon burns in a plentiful 
supply of air or oxygen, this carbon dioxide is produced. 
Knowing how many fires there are in all civilised countries, in 
houses, furnaces, engines, and so on, it is not difficult to under- 
stand that at every hour of the day very large quantities of this 
carbon dioxide are formed, which escape, sooner or later, into 
the air. 



FIG. no. Oxygen is given off from fresh green 
plants in sunlight, and can be collected as 
shown. 



XIII 



CARBON DIOXIDE 



163 



Carbon dioxide gas is the only colourless gas with no smell 
which has this power of turning lime-water milky, so that this 
fact forms a convenient way of showing the presence of carbon 
dioxide. 

Carbon dioxide is given off in breathing. If a person 
blows with the mouth into clear lime-water, the lime-water is 
turned milky (Fig. ill). This is another important fact. It is 
clear that carbon dioxide escapes from our lungs in breathing. 
And so it does from every animal. Not only, then, do all cases 
of ordinary burning result in the addition of carbon dioxide t<? 
the air, but also every act of breath- 
ing. It does not matter how small 
the animal is, all the time it is 
alive it is continually adding to the 
atmosphere a certain amount of 
a suffocating gas, the presence of 
which can be detected by its action 
in causing turbidity in clear lime- 
water. 

Chemical combustion in 
the body. Since breathing adds 
carbon dioxide to the air, surely 
carbon and oxygen unite together 
in some way in the body to pro- 
duce this gas. What really hap- 
pens is something like this. When 

air is drawn into the mouth, the mixture of oxygen and nitrogen 
of which the air is composed passes down the wind-pipe into the 
lungs inside the chest. The lungs, which are like the " lights " 
or lungs of animals to be seen at the butcher's, are two spongy 
masses which take up a large part of the chest (Fig. 1 12). They 
contain throughout a very large number of little air spaces 
with very thin walls. All over these thin walls tiny blood- 
vessels are spread, and the walls of these are also very thin. The 
oxygen of the air passes through these thin walls into the blood, 
which carries the oxygen to every part of the body. The 
number of little air-cells in the lungs is estimated at five or six 
millions, and their surface at about twenty square feet. 

Whenever you lift an arm, move a leg, or use any muscle, 
part of the substance of the muscle is used up or burnt. It 

M 2 




FIG. in. Clear lime-water is turned 
milky when a person breathe 1 , 
into it. 



i6 4 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



joins with the oxygen in the blood. The muscle contains, with 
other elements, hydrogen and carbon. The hydrogen of the 
muscle unites with the oxygen brought by the blood to form 
water ; and the carbon of the muscle combines with some more 
of this oxygen to form carbon dioxide. These waste products 
water and carbon dioxide are taken away from the muscles by 
the blood, which is always in motion, to the lungs. Here the 
carbon dioxide is given up, and passes, with nitrogen and other 

gases which you breathe 
out, back into the atmo- 
sphere. 

What is true of human 
beings is equally true of 
every animal which pos- 
sesses lungs. They all 
breathe in air containing 
oxygen, and breathe out 
air containing carbon 
dioxide. 

These facts explain why 
meals are required. After 
the muscles or the brain 
have been used for a cer- 
tain time, a person begins 
to feel hungry. That 
means something is re- 
quired to rebuild the used- 
up muscle and brain. 
Food is taken, and this, 

after undergoing wonderful changes, supplies the blood with 
material which it carries off to the muscles and brain to repair 
them. But besides repairing waste, the food is also the source 
of the body's warmth. When chemical action takes place heat 
is developed, and it is the heat formed in this way which warms 
the body. 

[""Amount of air inhaled. An idea of the large amount of 
'air essential to life may be obtained from the fact that the 
weight of air inhaled in the course of a day is seven or eight 
times greater than that of the food eaten. "The average 
volume of air breathed in at each breath is about 30 cubic 




FIG. us. Wind-pipe and lungs. The lung 
on the right has been cut to show the branch- 
ing tubes. 



xin CARBON DIOXIDE 165 

inches, and the volume of air which may be easily breathed in 
by an effort, and by expanding the chest, is about 130 cubic 
inches, or about four times as much. After a very full inspira- 
tion, about 230 cubic inches can be expired by a man of average 
height and in good health. The total capacity of the lungs, 
however, is much more than this about 330 cubic inches. 
Thus in ordinary quiet breathing we only fill about one-tenth of 
the available air-space of the lungs. After expiration, a quantity 
of air is left in the lungs. This residual air amounts to about 
100 cubic inches. An adult at rest breathes about 686,000 cubic 
inches of air in the course of twenty-four hours ; a labourer at 
full work about 1,586,000 cubic inches more than double. The 
amount of air passing into the lungs in a day has been estimated 
at 400 cubic feet in a state of rest, 600 in exercise, 1,000 in 
severe exertion." (Hon. Rollo Russell.) "~/ 

Purifying action of plants. That there is always a 
certain amount of carbon dioxide in the air can be proved by 
exposing fresh lime-water in a shallow vessel. Very soon the 
lime-water becomes covered with a thin white layer of chalk, 
which is formed by the combination of the carbon dioxide in the 
air with the lime in the lime-water. One reason why there is 
never very much carbon dioxide in the air out of doors is 
because there are agencies continuously at work getting rid of 
this gas. The chief purifying agent is the green parts of plants 
which occur everywhere. 

When fresh watercress is put into a bottle completely full of 
water containing carbon dioxide in solution, and the bottle is 
inverted in a basin of water without allowing air to get into the 
bottle, it is found that, when the bottle and its contents are 
exposed to bright sunlight, bubbles of gas collect at the top of 
the bottle. These bubbles, when tested, are found to be pure 
oxygen. If, however, the bottle with the cress in it is kept in 
the dark, no bubbles 01 oxygen collect. Or, if a bottle of water 
in which carbon dioxide is dissolved be put in the sun, without 
any watercress, no oxygen collects in the top of the bottle. 

In other words, two things are necessary for the formation of 
the bubbles of oxygen collected from the green plants as 
described. They are (i) the green vegetation, (2) the sunlight. 
The same conditions have been found always to hold true, thus 
proving that green plants in the presence of bright sunlight have 



166 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

the power of turning oxygen out of carbon dioxide. They keep 
the carbon for themselves, and it helps them to grow. If the 
experiment is carefully performed, a small bunch of watercress 
can be proved to have increased in mass after being exposed to 
bright sunlight for some time, as described on p. 162. 

The balance of nature. The wonderful relation between 
animals and plants in regard to their action upon the air, is a 
beautiful example of the way in which nature provides for one 
class of its creatures even out of the refuse of another. Animals 
by their breathing are continually using up the oxygen and 
returning to the atmosphere the compound carbon dioxide a 
gas which is fatal to animal life. On the other hand, plants 
take in the carbon dioxide, and, in the presence of sunlight, the 
green material in their leaves can split up the gas into the two 
simpler substances of which it is built, namely, carbon and 
oxygen. The carbon the plants keep for themselves, the 
oxygen they do not want, and return to the atmosphere again. 
In this way plants help to keep the atmosphere in a suitable 
condition for the healthy life of animals. 

Wherever green vegetation flourishes, it is actively at work 
purifying the air by using up carbon dioxide and giving out 
oxygen. You will understand from this that open spaces and 
parks are of great value in towns, for they prevent the accumula- 
tion of carbon dioxide in the air as well as provide places for 
recreation. 

It must not, however, be supposed that green plants do 
nothing but take in carbon dioxide and give out oxygen, for 
they take in a little oxygen, and in darkness they give out an 
appreciable quantity of carbon dioxide. But even when this is 
taken into account we know that vegetation is of very great use 
in keeping down the proportion of carbon dioxide in air. 
Another way in which carbon dioxide is removed from the air 
is by solution in the waters of the ocean, lakes, and rivers. It 
has been estimated that, if all the carbon dioxide produced 
could accumulate in the air, the proportion would be doubled in 
eighty-six years, and a few centuries would see the disappear- 
ance of all the higher animals. 



XIII 



CARBON DIOXIDE 



167 



INCREASE OF WEIGHT WHEN CARBON IS BURNT 

177. Passing oxygen over a weighed amount of carbon. Place a 
convenient amount of charcoal in a wide, hard glass tube fitted with 
smaller tubes passing through india-rubber stoppers. Weigh the tube 
with its stoppers and contents. Arrange two U-tubes as shown ; the 
first containing a strong solution of caustic soda, and the second lumps 
of the size of a pea of the same compound. Weigh the U-tubes with 
their contents and fittings. Join the apparatus as shown in Fig. 113. 
Heat the charcoal in the hard glass tube to redness, and pass oxygen 
slowly over it from an oxygen apparatus (p. 125), or from a gas-holder, 
or a cylinder of compressed oxygen. After the experiment has gone 
on for ten minutes, disconnect from the oxygen supply, and remove 
the burners. Disconnect the apparatus, and again weigh the U-tubes. 
When the hard glass tube is cool, weigh it again also. Notice the 




FIG. 113. An arrangement for determining the weight of carbon dioxide pro- 
duced by a known weight of carbon. The oxygen is supplied from a cylinder 
of compressed oxygen. 

U-tubes are heavier, while the hard glass tube and its contents weigh 
less than before. For every gram of charcoal used up, 3! grams of 
carbon dioxide are absorbed by the caustic soda. 

178. Increase of weight caused by burning. Obtain a lamp-glass 
like the one shown in Fig. 114. At the narrow part arrange a tray of 
coarse wire gauze. On the shelf so formed put pieces of caustic soda. 
Fit a large cork, with several holes through it, into the bottom of the 
lamp-glass. Through one hole in the cork insert a candle. Find the 
weight of the whole apparatus. Withdraw the cork, light the candle, 
and reinsert the cork. After the candle has burnt for a few minutes, 
blow out the flame, and when the apparatus is cool make another 
weighing. It will be found that the apparatus has increased in 
weight. 

""When carbon burns in the air it increases in 
weight. It has now been seen sufficiently that in every case 
of burning the substance burnt combines with the oxygen of the 
air, to form a new compound. It is here necessary to study a 



i68 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



new change which also occurs, namely, an increase of weight 
which always accompanies burning. Evidence of this increase 
can be obtained by passing oxygen over a weighed amount of 
charcoal in a hard glass tube, and collecting in a suitable 
manner the products of the combustion which takes place. 
This can, in the case before us, be very conveniently done by 
causing* the gas formed, when the charcoal burns, to pass 

through a strong solution 
of caustic soda, a sub- 
stance having the power 
of completely dissolving 
the carbon dioxide, allow- 
ing none to escape. When 
the .experiment is care- 
fully performed, it is al- 
ways found that the in- 
crease in weight of the 
caustic soda is in excess 
of the loss in weight of 
the charcoal itself. More- 
over, it is found uniformly 
that for every gram of 
charcoal carbon as the 
chemist calls it which is 
burnt, 3 grams of carbon 
dioxide gas are dissolved 
by the caustic soda solu- 
tion. Not only is this 
true of the case of burn- 
ing carbon, but in every 
instance of burning there 
is a certain definite in- 
crease of weight, which never varies for any particular example 
of burning. This law of chemical combination has been known 
for a long time. It can be expressed in two or three ways. 
Either it may be said that chemical combination always takes 
place between definite weights of substances, or, the same 
chemical compound always contains the same elements combined 
together in the same proportions. It will now be worth while to 
study in detail what happens exactly when a candle burns. 




FIG. 114. Lamp-glass containing caustic soda 
to absorb the substances produced when a 
candle burns. 



xin CARBON DIOXIDE 169 

Nothing is lost when a candle burns. It has been 
seen that when iron rusts, it increases in weight. This naturally 
leads to the consideration of the burning of a candle. Surely, 
in this case, the same cannot be true. The candle gradually 
gets shorter and shorter, and, it will perhaps be thought, must 
get lighter and lighter. Of course, if a candle is weighed and 
then lighted, and after it has burnt for an hour is blown out and 




FIG. 115. The tubes suspended from each arm of the balance contain 
caustic soda. When the candle in the left-hand pan burns, the sub- 
stances formed are absorbed by the caustic soda above it, and their weight 
is shown to be greater than that of the candle used. 



weighed again, its weight will be less than before. But this is 
taking no account of the compounds into which it is changed as 
it burns. 

In the case of the rusting of iron, the rust, being a solid, 
stays where it is formed, and the rusty iron is easily shown to 
have a greater weight than the iron alone. But the candle, in 
taking out the active part of the air, forms two invisible gases 
steam, which on a cold surface condenses into water, and the 
gas which turns lime-water milky, and it is not so easy to 



170 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



understand that these substances together have a greater weight 
than the part of the candle which has disappeared. Yet this is 
so ; and the increase can be shown by simple experiments. 

If an open tube, containing some lumps of caustic soda in it, 
is arranged above a burning candle, the smoke and the invisible 
gases which the candle forms in burning pass through the tube 
and are stopped by the caustic soda. The weight of the sub- 
stances produced by the burning of a candle can thus be 
determined by finding the increase of weight of the caustic soda 
which absorbs them. If the weight of the candle at the 
beginning of the experiment has been found, the weight of the 




Carbon monoxide uniting with oxygen to 

form carbon dioxide. 
Carbon dioxide and red-hot carbon form 

carbon monoxide. 
Carbon unites with oxygen of the air to 

form carbon dioxide. 



FIG. 116. Chemical changes 
in the burning of carbon in 
an ordinary coal fire. 

substances absorbed by the caustic soda will be greater than 
the weight of the candle consumed. 

The coal fire. The combustion of coal is very similar 
to the burning of a candle. Coal is largely made up of 
carbon and hydrogen ; its other constituents are present in 
smaller quantities than these two elements. When coal burns, 
its hydrogen combines with the oxygen of the air to form water, 
and its carbon with more oxygen to form carbon dioxide. The 
consequence is that carbon dioxide is being continually given off 
by fires, and under proper conditions this passes up the chimney 
into the outer air. In the middle of a fire, however, other 
changes take place. The carbon dioxide formed by the com- 
bination of the carbon of the bottom of the fire in contact with 
the air, in its passage through the fire comes in contact with red- 



XIII 



CARBON DIOXIDE 



171 



hot carbon in the centre of the fire with which it combines to 
form another compound of carbon with oxygen, called carbon 
monoxide, the properties of which are quite unlike those of 
carbon dioxide. Carbon monoxide is a combustible gas, and 
when it comes in contact with the air at the top of the fire it 
burns with a pale blue flame to form more carbon dioxide. 
Carbon monoxide gas can often be seen burning on the top of a 
clear fire, causing the blue flame which most persons have 
noticed at one time or another. Both these compounds of 
carbon with oxygen are injur- 
ious to life, and must on no 
account be breathed. It is 
very necessary, therefore, that 
there should always be a suit- 
able means of escape for them 
into the open air. 

Since the burning of an or- 
dinary fire depends upon the 
supply of oxygen received, 
evidently the way to make a 
fire to burn is to clear the 
ashes from the bottom bar, 
and in other ways to make 
an easy passage for the air 
through the fire. It does 
little, if any, good to place the 
poker up in front of the fire, 
or to resort to similar super- 
stitious devices. 

On the other hand, to put 
out a fire we must prevent 

the admission of air to it. If a child has managed to get 
her dress on fire, it is useless to attempt to blow out the 
flames. Such procedure makes the fire burn more fiercely. The 
plan to adopt is at once to cover the fire with something the 
hearthrug or some handy thick material will answer very well ; 
this prevents oxygen getting to the fire, and it goes out very soon, 
because, as has been seen, oxygen is absolutely necessary in all 
cases of burning. This enables us to know what to do, top, 
when a lamp has " caught afire " owing to some defect in its 




FIG. 117. If a child's dress is afire, wrap 
the child immediately in a thick cloth, 
and the fire will be at once extin- 
guished. 



172 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

construction. Do not try to blow it out. Cover it at once with 
a thick duster, and cut off its supply of oxygen. If the house is 
on fire don't rush out leaving the doors open after you. Keep 
the doors and windows shut, and so try to stop the supply 
of air. 

SUMMARY. 

Carbon dioxide. When any substance containing carbon burns in the 
air, or in oxygen, carbon dioxide is formed. The same gas also is given 
off in the breath of animals. From these and other sources, large 
quantities of the gas are continually passing into the air. 

Breathing gets rid of the products of a kind of burning. The oxygen 
taken into the lungs of an animal unites with the carbon of its body to 
form carbon dioxide, and with the hydrogen of its body to form water. 
These products are partly expelled by breathing. 

Our food contains carbon and hydrogen ; after becoming a part of 
the substance of the body, the carbon and hydrogen are burned, or 
combine with oxygen, and the products of combustion are carried away 
by the blood to be again removed from the body. 

Amount of air inhaled. In the course of a day a weight of air 
seven or eight times greater than that of the food eaten is inhaled by a 
man. 

An adult at rest breathes about 686,000 cubic inches of air in twenty- 
four hours ; a labourer at full work about 1,586,000 cubic inches. 

The green parts of plants have power in bright sunlight to break up 
carbon dioxide ; the carbon they keep to build up their solid parts, and 
the oxygen is given to the air. 

The balance of nature. Animals breathe in oxygen from the air 
and breathe out carbon dioxide to the air. Plants in bright sunshine 
take up carbon dioxide from the air, and give up oxygen to the air. 

Carbon increases in weight when it burns in the air. One gram of 
carbon produces 3 grams of carbon dioxide. 

A coal fire. At the bottom of a fire the carbon of the coal com- 
bines with the oxygen of the air to form carbon dioxide, and its hydro- 
gen with more oxygen to form water. In passing over the red-hot coal 
in the middle of the fire, the carbon dioxide is converted into a com- 
pound called carbon monoxide, a gas which is poisonous and combus- 
tible. Carbon monoxide can often be seen burning on the top of a 
clear red fire with a lavender-coloured flame. 

To extinguish fires cut off their supply of air. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XIII. 

1. How could you show that the same gas is breathed out by a man 
as is produced when a candle burns ? 

2. The atmosphere always contains a certain amount of carbon 
dioxide. How does it get there, and how would you make its presence 
clear to another person ? 



xin CARBON DIOXIDE i73 

3. Describe carefully the way in which plants help to keep the 
atmosphere pure and sweet. 

4. Breathing is connected with a particular kind of burning. What 
is meant by this statement ? 

5. Of what use are lungs to animals which possess them ? 

6. In what ways are plants useful to animals, and vice versd ? 

7. How would you show to a class of children that a candle does not 
disappear entirely when it burns, and that the substances formed as the 
burning continues weigh more than the part of the candle which seems 
to have been lost ? 

8. Give a short account of the changes which take place in a coal 
fire which is burning brightly. 

9. A little girl comes running to you with her frock on fire. What 
should you do ? 

10. Why is it necessary to take food two or three times a day? 
When does a man want most food, and why ? 

u. What assistance would you give to a person whose clothes have 
caught fire ? (1890.) 




CHAPTER XIV 
COAL GAS 

179. Distillation of coal. Heat some coal-dust in a hard glass tube, 
to which an india-rubber stopper and delivery tube are attached. After 
a time apply a lighted taper to the end of the delivery tube, and satisfy 
yourself that an inflammable gas is given off. 

180. Some properties of coal gas. (a) Fill a small toy balloon with 
coal gas, and demonstrate that the gas is lighter than air. 

() Fill a cylinder with coal gas, as shown in Fig 121, and observe 
the colour an'd smell of the gas. As the gas can be collected over 
water, it is evidently insoluble in water. 

181. Products of the combustion of coal gas. By means of a bent 
glass tube and a piece of india-rubber tubing attached to the gas 
supply, as shown in Fig. 86, allow a small jet to burn in a cylinder. 
Notice the formation of drops of liquid on the sides of the cylinder. 
Prove that this liquid is water as in Expt. 156. Remove the gas jet. 
Add a little clear lime-water, and shake it up and down the cylinder. 
The lime-water is turned milky, showing the presence of carbon dioxide. 

Manufacture of coal gas. Coal gas is prepared by what 
is called the destructive distillation of coal. This process con- 
sists in heating the coal in closed retorts out of contact with the 
air, and collecting the products which distil over ; practically 
pure coke being left behind. 

The gaseous products thus driven out of the coal pass into a 
receptacle where coal tar and an impure solution of ammonia 
gas in water, called gas liquor, are condensed. The gas bubbles 
through the liquid, and escapes by means of a pipe which con- 
veys it to the condensers. 

At the opposite end from which it entered, the gas is led from 
the condensers, and passes through what are known as scrubbers, 
in which the last traces of ammonia are removed. The 
scrubbers in use are of two kinds ; they are either towers filled 



CH. XIV 



COAL GAS 



175 



with coke over which water slowly trickles, or they are closed 
compartments provided with a revolving shaft bearing 
horizontal circular plates, which, being wet, expose the gas to 
a large surface of water. . After leaving the scrubbers, the 
gas is conducted to a series of purifiers, where whatever 
carbon dioxide and sulphuretted hydrogen (a poisonous, 
bad-smelling compound of sulphur and hydrogen) remain 
are abstracted, together with some of the other sulphur com- 
pounds. The carbon dioxide should be removed, because it 
would lessen the illuminating power of the gas, while the sul- 
phuretted hydrogen must be completely taken out on account 

.RETORTS* 
~ FukNACE 




FIG. 1 18. Complete arrangement for the manufacture of coal gas. 

of its obnoxious smell and poisonous character. After having 
been measured in a suitable meter, the gas is passed into 
large holders called gasometers, from which it passes into the 
mains. 

Composition of coal gas. Coal gas is a mixture of 
several gases, which may be present in different proportions. By 
far the most abundant constituents are hydrogen and marsh gas 
(a compound of carbon and hydrogen). These, with carbon mon- 
oxide, which is present to the extent of about 6 per cent., are all 
combustible gases, but they none of them burn with bright flames. 
The three gases may be called the combustible non-illuminating 
constituents. The illuminating power of coal gas is due to the 
presence in it of gaseous compounds of carbon and hydrogen, 



1 7 6 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



which altogether are present only to the extent of about 5 per 
cent. ; they are therefore called the combustible illuminating 
constituents. 

Water-gas. The so-called " water-gas," extensively used 
for illuminating and heating purposes both in this country 
and abroad, is a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide 
(p. 171), prepared by passing steam over highly heated hard coal. 
When used for lighting purposes the water-gas is first mixed 
with the vapours obtained by strongly heating petroleum oil. 



FLAME AND ILLUMINATION 

182. A candle flame. Examine the flame of a candle ; notice that 
it is divisible into three well-marked zones. Outside is a dark yellow 
layer ; in the middle a highly luminous layer can be made out ; the 
interior of the flame consists of a bluish part which gives very little light. 

183. The nature of the three zones. (a) Take a short piece of glass 
tubing, about the thickness of a pencil, and open at both ends, arrange 

~ it so that one end is in the inner 
blue zone, while the tube itself slants 
away from the flame (Fig. 119). 
Apply a lighted match to the end 
of the tube away from the candle ; 
observe that a gas which catches 
fire is issuing from the tube. In 
other words, the inner zone of a 
candle flame is made up of unburnt 
combustible gases. 

(b) Lower a piece of cold, thick, 
white note-paper on to the flame ; 
after it has been there a second or 
two, raise it and examine the ring 
of soot which has been deposited. 
Round the ring of lamp-black is 
a second ring, where the paper is 
slightly charred. Repeat the ex- 
periment, bringing the piece of 
paper into the flame from the side, 
about half-way up the inner bluish 
zone ; the results thus obtained are 
perhaps more satisfactory. These 




FIG. 119. Proof that the central part 
of a candle flame consists of unburnt 
combustible gases. 



results are explained by the presence of incandescent particles of carbon 
in the highly luminous zone. The ring of charring is caused by the 
outside layer, where the combustion of the "apours from the candle is 
complete. 

184. A gas flame. Examine a gas flame. Three zones similar to 
those in th? randk- flame can be made out. Using a piece of glass 



XIV 



COAL GAS 



177 



tubing as before, lead some of the unburnt gases in the centre of the 
flame outside, and ignite them at the end of the tube. Prove the 
presence of particles of carbon in the middle zone by lowering a cold 
white plate upon the flame. Examine the deposit of soot. 

185. Result of lowering the temperature of flames. (a) Repeat the 
experiments on p. 65. Make a short coil of stout copper wire, ^-inch 
internal diameter. Pass it over the wick of a lighted candle without 
touching the wick. The candle is extinguished. This is, as has been 
learnt before, due to the cooling effect of the wire, which conducts away 
the heat. 

(b) Turn on, but do not light, a gas-jet. Hold over it a piece of fine 
wire gauze and apply a light above the gauze. Notice that the flame 
does not strike through. Vary the 

experiment by lowering a piece of 
cold wire gauze upon an ordinary 
Bunsen flame. 

186. The Bunsen burner. (a) 
Examine a Bunsen burner, or, as it 
is as often called, a laboratory 
burner. Compare its parts with 
Fig. 120. The metal tube, T, screws 
out, and reveals a small jet, J, 
through which the coal gas is sup- 
plied. One or two holes, A, can be 
closed by rotating the movable 
cylinder which fits round a slightly 
smaller fixed tube. Screw in the 
tube, T, open the holes, A, and 
connect the burner with the gas 
supply by means of a suitable length 
of india-rubber tubing. Turn on 
and light the gas. An almost colour- 
less flame is obtained. You will now 
have no difficulty in understanding 
that it is a mixture of coal-gas and 
air which is burning. Close the holes, 
A, the flame immediately becomes 
luminous. 

(b} Again obtain a non-luminous 

flame ; lower a cold white plate into it, and observe there is no deposit 
of carbon. Close the holes, A, and lower the cold plate into the 
luminous flame you have now got ; there is an abundant supply of 
soot. The combustion in the non-luminous flame is complete, while 
that in the other case is not. 

(c) Shake some dust into the non-luminous flame of a Bunsen 
flame, and observe that it at once becomes much brighter. The 
dust can be suitably obtained by shaking the duster used to clean the 
black-board above the flame. There is a connection between the 
incandescent particles in a flame and its brightness. 

187. Products of combustion of a candle and coal gas. (a) Repeat 




FIG. 120. A Bunsen burner. When 
the flame is required to be spread 
out, the rose on the peg at the base 
of the burner is placed upon the 
top of the tube T. 



EX P. HYG. 



N 



178 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



Expts. 127 and 131, and remind yourself that in both cases of burning, 
water and carbon dioxide are formed. 

188. Gas explosions. (a) By means of the arrangement shown in 
Fig. 121, fill an oval soda-water bottle with a mixture of equal parts of 
air and coal gas. This can be done by inverting a bottle half full of 
water over the tube connected with the gas supply shown in the illus- 
tration. When the bottle is 
full of gas, close its mouth 
with a well - fitting india- 
rubber stopper or cork. Lift 
it out of the water, and wrap 
it in a duster. Holding it 
away from your face, pull out 



the cork, and apply a lighted 
taper. You will not fail to 




FIG. 121. Collection of gas in a bottle. 

hear an explosion. 

(b) Repeat the last experiment, but this time completely fill the 
bottle with coal gas. On applying the burning taper in this case, the 
coal gas burns with a large flame, but with no explosion. In other 
words, while a mixture of coal gas and air is highly explosive, pure 
coal gas is not able to cause an explosion. 

189. The gas-stove. Examine a gas-stove or large ring burner like 
that shown in Fig. 122. The principle of its construction is the same as 
that of a Bunsen burner. There is always a means by which a suitable 
amount of air is supplied to the coal gas before it is burnt ; this causes 
complete combustion, no deposit of soot, and a higher temperature than 
in the case of a luminous flame. 

190. The rate at which a gas-stove burns gas. It is important to 
be able to tell at what rate a gas-stove is consuming gas. To learn how 
to do this, and to form an intelligent idea of the expense attending the 
use of these stoves, a series of observations of the gas-meter during the 
time a stove is in use should be made. Put a quart of water in an 
ordinary kettle, place it upon the gas-stove, read the gas-meter, then 
turn on and light the gas. Read the meter again when the water boils, 

and determine how much 
gas has been used in the 
process. Similarly find 
out how much gas is used 
by the stove in an hour. 

The burning of a 
candle. Though a 
candle flame is to the 
majority of persons one 
of the most familiar of 
objects, it is understood 

by comparatively few. Yet it is well worth intelligent study. 
To explain it fully, one must be acquainted with several of the 
most important facts of chemical and physical science. The wax 




FIG. 122. A ring burner such as occurs on 
the top of a gas-stove. 






xiv COAL GAS 179 

of the candle has first to be melted, and then, after the liquid wax 
has passed up the wick by what is called capillary attraction, it 
must be converted into a vapour, the constituents of which, by 
their combination with the oxygen of the air, burn, producing a 
flame. And the flame thus produced is not as simple as is first 
imagined. It consists of three zones each having its own par- 
ticular characters. In the centre of the flame is a bluish cone 
of unburnt vapours, just as they were obtained by the vaporisation 
of the liquid wax. Outside this is the layer of the flame to 
which all its brightness is due ; it is impregnated by particles of 
carbon, which the heat of combustion has made incandescent. 
This can be easily proved by lowering on to the flame any cold 
white surface, when the particles of soot are at once deposited. 
The part of the flame which adjoins the air is known as the zone 
of complete combustion ; this layer is not highly luminous, but 
it has the highest temperature of any part of the flame. It is in 
this part of the flame, of course, that the greatest quantity of 
water and carbon dioxide, the products of the combustion of the 
candle, is formed. 

It must now be explained what, from the point of view of the 
chemist, a flame really is. When two substances unite to form 
a new compound, heat is generally produced, and this heat may 
be sufficient to raise the temperature of the substances and the 
products of their combustion to such a degree that they become 
luminous. If, as in the case of the candle, gases are present 
among the products of combustion, they become luminous and 
pass away as flames. It may, in consequence, be stated that 
flames are gases produced by combustion, which have had their 
temperatures raised so much that they have become self-luminous. 

If by any means the temperature is lowered, the flame is 
extinguished. The truth of this statement is at once demon- 
strated by lowering a cold coil of copper wire on to a candle 
without touching the wick, when the flame is put out. Or, the 
same thing can be demonstrated by lowering a piece of cold 
wire gauze on to a non-luminous flame, such as that of a labora- 
tory burner. In this case no flame appears above the gauze, 
because the heat is conducted away by the wire : lowering the 
temperature to such a degree that flame is impossible. 

A gas flame. The only important difference between a 
gas flame and that of a candle is that the combustible body is, 

N 2 



i8o 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



in the former case, in a state of gas from the beginning, while 
in the latter case the solid has to be first vaporised. Just as 
there are three zones in a candle flame, so in the gas flame three 
divisions can be made out. In the centre is ordinary uncon- 
sumed coal gas, then comes the luminous part of the flame, and 
outside is the area of complete combustion. In both the flame 
of a candle and that of a gas jet the products of combustion are 
water and carbon dioxide. 

Forms of gas burners. The burners in which coal 
gas is used for illuminating purposes are of different shapes, so 
as to produce the two forms of flame in common use. These 
are (i) tubular flames ; (2) flat flames. 

In arranging a gas burner it is necessary to make sure that 
the gas is being properly burnt, because it is only when this is 
done that the light obtained is steady, and consequently not 
trying to the eyesight. Attention must also be given to the 





FIG. 123. Shape and section of an Argand burner. 

pressure under which the gas is supplied from the meter, and to 
the illuminating power of the gas. Experiments have proved 
that most light is obtained from a gas flame when it is on the 
verge of flaring. 

Argand burners produce tubular flames. This burner con- 
sists of a tube in the form of a ring, round which a circle of 
small holes is bored (Fig. 123). The gas issues from these 
holes at a pressure slightly different from that of the atmo- 



xiv COAL GAS 181 

sphere. In Sugg's London Argand burner the parts where the 
gas is burnt are made of steatite, a mineral which is a bad 
conductor of heat. 

A cylindrical chimney of glass is used with the Argand 
burner. This form of burner has been brought to a high state 
of perfection. 

Fishtail and Batswing burners are designed to produce 
the familiar flat flames in common use. In the former, some- 
times called the " union " burner, two holes pierce the surface at 
which the gas is burnt. These holes are inclined to one another 
at a right angle, the reason for this arrangement being that the 
collision of the two currents of gas when the tap is turned on 
will spread the flame out into a flat sheet. 

The batswing form has a narrow slit right across the surface 
of the burner, instead of the two inclined holes just described. 
In both burners for producing flat flames the top of the burner 
is made of steatite or pottery. 

A Bunsen burner. The colourless, non-luminous flame of 
a laboratory burner is due to the more complete combustion 
taking place in this instance compared with what goes on in a 
candle flame. By a simple arrangement, which is at once 
understood from an examination of Fig. 120, the coal gas is, 
before being burnt, intimately mixed with air. The result is 
that the carbon of the gaseous compounds contained in the coal 
gas is completely converted into carbon dioxide ; there is no 
carbon left to become incandescent, and so make the flame 
luminous. The combustion in both kinds of burner is of the 
same nature, however, water and carbon dioxide resulting in 
each. Since the burning in the Bunsen lamp is so much more 
thorough, the temperature of the flame is very much higher 
than that of a gas flame used for the purpose of illumination. 

Gas stoves are only special forms of Bunsen burners de- 
signed to be of assistance in household economy. A perfect 
gas stove is one which produces the greatest heating effect with 
the smallest consumption of gas. Where gas stoves are used, it 
is of the highest importance that attention should be given to 
the gas meter at regular intervals, so that it may be seen at 
what rate the gas is being used, and so that any smal? leak may 
be detected and a waste of gas stopped. 

To be effective, the supply of air to a gas stove must bear the 



182 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



right proportion to the gas supplied from the main. This is the 
business of the maker. If this proportion is not ensured in the 
stove, there is a danger of the gas lighting in a wrong manner 
" striking back," as it is called. When this occurs, combustion 
is not only incomplete, causing a deposit of soot, but an un- 
desirable compound with an unpleasant smell, and injurious to 
health, is produced. Gas fires frequently " strike back " when 
the air-holes of the burners have become stopped with dust. 
When the dust is removed, the fires will burn properly. 

Products of combustion. It has been stated more than 
once that the flames of candles and of gas jets produce water 
and carbon dioxide. Now while the water, which at the moment 
of its formation is in the form of vapour, might be allowed to 
escape into a room with impunity, the other product of com- 
bustion, carbon dioxide, should on no account be allowed free 
access to living-rooms, unless suitable means for its escape are 
provided. In the case of gas stoves, a chimney or flue con- 
nected with the air outside the building should always be pro- 
vided. This gets rid of the suffocating carbon dioxide gas ; but, 
unfortunately, unless intelligence is used in the way in which it 
is fitted, it also gets rid of a large proportion of the heat. But 
there is no real difficulty about the matter ; several good stoves 
which allow of the escape of all the products of combustion with 
the loss of very little heat, have been placed upon the market. 
A form of stove designed by Dr. F. T. Bond, which can be 
used for heating the air of a room without any danger arising 
from the carbon dioxide produced as the gas burns, is described 
in a later chapter. 

In view of several fatal accidents which have occurred in 
recent years, it is worth while to point out that it is very danger- 
ous to use " geysers " for warming water for the bath, unless the 
geyser is connected by a tube with the outside air, in such a way 
that the products of combustion can escape. 

Gas explosions. Pure coal gas is not explosive. In the 
absence of oxygen it cannot even burn. If a lighted taper is 
plunged into a jar of coal gas, it is found that the taper is 
extinguished. If it were possible, therefore, to introduce a light 
into a room completely full of coal gas without introducing any 
air whatever, the flame would simpW be put out ; there would 
be no explosion at all. 



XIV 



COAL GAS 



But a mixture of air and coal gas is, like a mixture of oxygen 
and hydrogen, in a high degree explosive, Whenever there 
is any reason to fear that through an escape of gas a room 
has got full of a mixture of air and coal gas, it is madness to 
start looking for the leak with a light. Such conduct can have 
but one result. The proper plan to adopt is to turn the gas off 
at the meter, and to open windows at top and bottom, and open 
the doors, until the explosive mixture has had time to escape. 
It will then be time to think of finding the leak a piece of 
detective work which is best left to a gasfitter. 




READING OF METER 46.900 

T 
o 




3THOUSANOS7-y y? HUNDREDS 3 

yjijy 7 \ 

READING OF METER 92.100 




READING OF METER 114.800 



"IG. 124. Readings of gas meter on three different dates. The dial showing cubic 
feet less than 100 is not shown, as it is not usually read. 



The use of the gas 
been used in each of the 
vides each house with a 
times to read the meter, 
in the house, and in a 
records how many cubic 
the house that is, when 



meter. To know how much gas has 
houses they supply, a gas company pro- 
meter, and sends a man at different 
and to record the results on a card left 
book which he carries. The meter 
feet of gas have passed through it into 
the meter is in proper working order. 



184 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

To read a gas meter, start with the highest numbered dial, and 
write down one after the other the number which each hand 
has last passed, or which is under the hand. Add two noughts 
(oo) to the row of figures, and this will give you the number of 
cubic feet indicated at the time. In Fig. 124, the appearance is 
shown of the dial of the meter on three different dates, at 
intervals of three months. In the first case the reading is 
46,900 cubic feet, and three months afterwards the reading is 
92,100 cubic feet, showing that, for one purpose or another, the 
people in the house have used 45,200 cubic feet of gas. The 
third time the " gas-man " read the meter, it recorded 114,800 
cubic feet, indicating that during this quarter 22,700 cubic feet 
had been consumed. 

The company charges so much for each thousand cubic feet 
of gas supplied, and after readings such as those described have 
been obtained, it is not difficult to make out the bill. 



SUMMARY. 

Coal gas is prepared by the destructive distillation of coal. It is 
a mixture of gases ; hydrogen and marsh gas occur most abundantly, 
other gases are also present, among them being some compounds of 
carbon and hydrogen to which the illuminating power of coal gas is 
chiefly due. 

A candle flame. The flame of a candle is made up of three 
zones. In the centre is a bluish zone of unburnt vapours ; outside this 
is a middle zone containing incandescent particles of carbon ; the 
exterior zone, the one of complete combustion, has the highest tempera- 
ture of any part of the flame. 

A gas flame also consists of three zones. The only difference in the 
two is that the candle is at first solid, while the gas has not first to be 
vaporised. 

Flames are gases produced by combustion which have had their 
temperatures raised so much that they have become self-luminous. 

Gas burners are of two kinds : (a) the Argand\ (b] those producing 
flat flames, called the Fishtail and Batsiving burners. 

A Bunsen burner. This burner provides a means of mixing coal 
gas with air before it is burnt ; the result is that combustion is more 
complete, and a higher temperature is obtained. Gas stoves may be 
regarded as special kinds of Bunsen burners. 

The products of combustion of gas stoves, gas fires, etc. , must never 
be allowed to mix with the air of rooms. There should always be a 
pipe provided to lead the products of combustion to the open air. 

A mixture of coal gas and air is highly explosive. 



xiv COAL GAS 185 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XIV. 

1. Give a short description of the manufacture of coal gas. 

2. What are the most important constituents of coal gas ? Which of 
these are chiefly concerned in giving the gas its illuminating power ? 

3. What do you know of the structure of a candle flame ? Explain 
what goes on in each of the zones you name. 

4. Draw and describe the Bunsen burner. Explain the principle of 
its action. 

5. How is the flame of a Bunsen burner different from that of an 
ordinary gas jet ? 

6. Describe the construction of a gas-stove. What precautions should 
be observed in using such stoves ? 

7. What is a flame ? Why is a gas flame, used for lighting a room, so 
bright? 

8. If a gas-stove is wrongly lighted, a gas with a nasty smell and 
very injurious to life is formed. What is the cause of this? How may 
it be prevented ? 

9. Describe some good form of gas-stove in which the products of 
combustion are got rid of without much loss of useful heat. 

10. How are gas explosions produced ? What steps should you take 
to prevent an explosion if you discovered there had been a large escape 
of gas in your sitting-room ? 

11. You have reason to suspect that there is a leak in one of the gas 
pipes in your house : state how you would go to work to find it. 

1 2. Why is it that if a short coil of stout copper wire is passed over 
the wick of a lighted candle without touching the wick, the flame is 
put out ? 

13. What are the chief causes of escape of coal gas into houses? 
What should be done when an escape of gas is detected ? (1890.) 

14. In what circumstances is carbonic oxide gas (carbon monoxide) 
likely to be present in the air of rooms ? What are its effects upon 
the human body ? ( 1 890. ) 



CHAPTER XV 
VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 

PHYSICAL PRINCIPLES ON WHICH VENTILATION 
DEPENDS 

191. Diffusion of gases. Diffusion ofcoalgas.Y\\\ a wide-mouthed 
bottle with coal gas in the manner described in Expt. 188. While the 
mouth of the bottle is still under water, close it with a cork. Lift the 
bottle out of the water and place it upon a table. Take out the cork, 
and leave the bottle exposed to the air for some time. It will not be 
long before a smell of coal gas is noticed throughout the room. The 
coal gas has diffused throughout the air of the room. 

Diffusion of hydrogen. Fill a glass jar with hydrogen in the way learnt 
in Expt. 149. Invert the jar and hold it mouth downwards for a 
minute or two with its mouth uncovered. Now apply a light to the 
mouth of the jar. Notice there is no explosion and no flame, showing 
the hydrogen has all escaped from the jar. If the jar is not exposed to 
the air for a sufficient length of time before applying a light, there will 
be an explosion (p. 141), showing that the outside air has mixed with 
the hydrogen. Before applying a light, therefore, take the precaution to 
wrap the jar in a duster. The hydrogen escapes into the air by the 
process of diffusion. 

Another instance of diffusion. Bear in mind that ammonia gas is 
lighter than air, and hydrochloric acid gas is heavier than air. Take 
two gas cylinders of the same size, and smear their ground edges with 
vaseline. Into one jar pour a few drops of strong ammonia solution ; 
into the other pour a drop or two of strong hydrochloric acid. Putting 
the jar containing the ammonia on the top, place the jars mouth to 
mouth above one another. Notice that a white cloud of the material 
formed by the combination of the ammonia and hydrochloric acid is 
produced, showing that the heavier gas has diffused upwards into the 
lighter gas, and the lighter gas has diffused downwards into the heavier 
gas. 

192. Convection currents. Repeat the experiments described on 
pp. 68-69, to explain how liquids and gases become warmed. 

193. Convection currents in a room. Slightly open the door of a 



CH. XV 



VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 



187 



sitting-room, in which a fire is burning, so that a communication with the 
colder passage outside is made. Hold a burning candle (a) near the 
top of the door, (/>) near the floor, and (c) near the handle of the door. 
Carefully observe what happens to the flame of the candle. It is easily 
seen in this way that there is a current from the room into the passage 
near the top of the door ; near the floor a current from the passage into 
the room makes the flame of the candle 
point into the room ; while in the 
neighbourhood of the door handle 
the flame is unaffected because there 
is no movement of the air in this 
place. 

The need for ventilation. 
It has been learnt that burning 
and similar processes are instances 
of the combination of some form 
of carbon, or some compound of 
carbon and hydrogen, with the 
oxygen of the air, resulting, when 
there is an abundant supply of 
this oxygen, in the formation of 
the compound, carbon dioxide, a 
gas in which combustion and 
breathing are impossible. It is 
true that pure fresh air always 
contains a certain small amount 
of carbon dioxide, about three 
parts in 10,000 of air ; but this per- 
centage has no bad effects. Indeed, 
air containing as much as six parts 
in 10,000 may be breathed with impunity. It is only when the 
proportion of carbon dioxide in air much exceeds this amount 
that the health of the person breathing it is affected. Bearing 
these simple facts in mind, it is not difficult to understand that 
it is necessary to adopt some means for keeping the air of 
rooms in which people have to live free from a larger amount 
of carbon dioxide than six parts in 10,000 of air. Ventilation, 
then, is the problem of managing this, without at the same time 
causing draughts. 

Amount of room required for healthy life. It has 
been found that an adult person breathes out three-fifths or o ! 6 




FIG. 125. Experiment with am- 
monia and hydrochloric acid gas 
to show diffusion of gases. 



i88 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

of a cubic foot of carbon dioxide every hour when not in active 
work. Suppose a man to be in a room measuring ten feet in 
each of the three directions ; that is, in a room containing a 
thousand cubic feet of fresh air. Before this man starts breathing 
in the room, the air contains three-tenths, 0*3, of a cubic foot of 
carbon dioxide. At the end of an hour the man by his breath- 
ing has added 0*6 of a cubic foot, or altogether there is 0*9 of 
a cubic foot of carbon dioxide in the thousand cubic feet of air in 
the room, which is too great an amount to allow of healthy 
life. 

What would be the condition of things if the room had con- 
tained two thousand cubic feet of air to begin with ? When the 
man goes into the room the air contains twice three-tenths of a 
cubic foot of air ; that is, 2 x o'3 cubic feet, or o'6 cubic feet ; at 
the end of the hour o'6 cubic feet of carbon dioxide is added by 
the man in breathing, so that altogether there is 1*2 cubic feet 
of carbon dioxide in the room, or o'6 per thousand cubic feet of 
air an amount which, as we have seen, is not great enough to 
interfere with health. It is clear, then, that to keep healthy 
the man must have at least two thousand cubic feet of air an 
hour, and if he is living in the room which only holds one 
thousand cubic feet, the air must be completely changed at the 
end of each half-hour. The same is true if two persons are in 
the room holding two thousand cubic feet of air. We can, in 
other words, take this amount of two thousand cubic feet of 
fresh air as the smallest amount per hour for each adult person 
to live healthily. It must be pointed out, however, that some 
authorities maintain that this allowance is too small. 

The air in a room must be changed. If we suppose 
for a moment that the air in a room can only be changed once 
in an hour, it is clear, in such circumstances, that, to secure 
two thousand cubic feet of air for every individual, each one 
would want a room twenty feet long, ten wide, and ten high, a 
size which is quite out of the question in practice. It is possible 
to change the air oftener than once an hour without any incon- 
venience in the way of draughts. In fact, in this country when 
cold fresh air from outside a room is allowed to enter it, it has 
been found by experience that the air may be changed three 
times in an hour and no draught ensue. If the fresh air intro- 
duced is first warmed, the change may be effected much oftener. 



XV 



VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 



189 



The following table, due to Dr. C. Childs, 1 gives the number 
of cubic feet of fresh air required per head per hour which he 
considers necessary for healthy life, and shows the cubic space 
required in cold weather with unwarmed air if changed three 
times in an hour, and with warmed air changed ten times an 
hour. Carnelley and other high authorities demand much less 
cubic space and air supply, practically only about one-third of 
the quantities given in the table. 





Cubic space required in cold 




weather. 















fresh air re- 








quired per head 
per hour. 


(i) With air 
unwarmed if 
changed three 
times in an 
hour. 


(2) With air at 
58- 60 F. 
changed ten 
times an hour. 


Adult Males 


3600 


I2OO 


360 


Adult Females 


3000 


1000 


300 


Children 


2OOO 


666 


2OO 


Assemblages of Men, 








Women, and Children 


3OOO 


IOOO 


300 



The sensation of draught depends chiefly upon the speed with 
which the incoming air is moving, and upon its temperature. 
It may be said, with fair accuracy, that cold air coming into a 
room with a speed of less than two feet a second will not pro- 
duce a draught ; and, that warm air may travel into a. room 
with a velocity of five feet a second without inconvenience. 

In considering the amount of cubic space to be allowed for 
each person in a house, many other points must be considered. 
Since all fires, lamps, and candles require oxygen and produce 
carbon dioxide, due allowance must be made for them. It must 
also be taken into account how many persons are using a room 
at the same time before a proper conclusion as to the number of 
times the air in the room must be changed can be arrived at. 
It is also worth while to mention that children do not require so 
much cubic space as grown-up people. 

1 Journal of the Sanitary Institute, April, 1901, p. 26. 



190 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

Mr. Francis Jones has made a detailed examination of the air 
of rooms lighted and heated by various means. His results 
show that the air of a room, however lighted and heated, is 
purest at the floor, less pure three feet above, and most impure 
at the ceiling. When a coal fire is used for heating and the 
electric light for lighting, the air is kept purer than by any 
other plan usually employed. Only by the use of this com- 
bination can carbon dioxide be kept below ten parts in 10,000 
when an ordinary room has to be artificially heated and lighted. 
The worst air was found by Mr. Jones to be present in an open 
room where burners were alight on the top of a gas cooking 
stove, the proportion of carbon dioxide being as high as 60 parts 
in 10,000. 

Facts utilised in ventilation. Two systems of ventila- 
tion are in common use. When the problem is that of keeping 
the air in the rooms of an ordinary house pure and sweet, a 
satisfactory solution is to be found by making use of the 
common properties of gases. This plan is called natural 
ventilation. For the ventilation of large buildings like schools, 
churches, theatres, factories, and so on, mechanical contrivances 
for driving large quantities of fresh air into the space to be 
ventilated have to be utilised. But in this book only the 
former method is to be considered. Natural ventilation depends 
upon, first, the diffusion of gases, and second, the convection 
currents in gases caused by the unequal heating of different parts 
of a quantity of gas in communication. 

Under the second heading we may include the winds, which 
are produced in nature in precisely the same way as the con- 
vection currents in a room in which a fire is burning. 

Diffusion of gases. The minute parts of which a gas is 
composed, " molecules " as the man of science calls them, are 
continually in movement. A quantity of gas, however small, 
will spread out until it completely fills a space, however large, 
in which it finds itself. Moreover, it will do this whether there 
is already another gas in the space or not. The result is that, 
whenever there are two different gases in free contact, they will 
soon become intimately mixed, until in every part there will be 
a uniform mixture of the two gases. These facts explain how 
it is that, if a bottle of coal gas is uncorked in a room, and 
allowed to remain in contact with the air of the room, the smell 



xv VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 191 

of the coal gas will soon be perceived in every part of the room. 
In the same way the disappearance of the hydrogen from ajar 
of that gas held mouth downwards in a room is explained. The 
almost uniform composition of fresh air in different parts of the 
world is similarly to be accounted for. 

There is a definite relation between the rate at which a gas 
diffuses and its density ; a light gas spreads into an adjoining 
space more rapidly than a heavier one, but a formal considera- 
tion of the law governing the diffusion of gases of different 
densities would be out of place in a little book of this character. 

Owing to this power of diffusion, the air of a room rendered 
stuffy by the breathing of people in it, would, in the absence of 
all convection currents, supposing it were in free contact with 
the air outside, gradually diffuse into the outer purer air until all 
traces of impurity, were lost. 

Diffusion and convection must not be confused. The move- 
ments of the molecules of a fluid, which constitute diffusion, are 
always taking place, even when the temperature of the gas 
or liquid is the same throughout. The molecules move faster 
when the fluid is warmer, and diffusion is more rapid ; but, 
whatever the temperature, there is always some of this rapid 
movement of molecules in ordinary circumstances. 

Convection currents, on the other hand, are due to the differ- 
ence of temperature between two parts of a fluid in free com- 
munication. The density of the warm part becomes less as its 
temperature increases ; this part of the fluid consequently rises, 
and in due course its place is taken by the relatively heavy and 
cold part of the fluid. 

How convection currents are utilised. It has already 
been learnt that when air is heated it expands. The conse- 
quence is that a given weight of air when warmed fills a larger 
space than it did when cold ; that is to say, as its temperature 
is increased, its density becomes smaller and smaller. Expressed 
in another way, it may be said that a given volume of warm air 
is lighter than an equal volume of cold air. If these conclusions 
be applied to the air of a room in which a man is sitting at work 
by the side of a fire, it is not difficult to understand that, as the 
fire and the man warm the air, some of it near the fire rises 
towards the ceiling, because as it is warmed it gets lighter. A 
larger part of the warm air, however, passes up the chimney. 



192 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

But as the air is being warmed by the man's body, the man by 
his breathing is rendering it impure. That is to say, warmer 
and impure air will be found near the ceiling. But if the air 
near the floor is warmed and rises, air from somewhere else 
must take its place, or a current of colder air is set up from the 
ceiling towards the floor. As will be seen later, these simple 
facts are attended to in all the different kinds of common 
ventilators in ordinary use ; an exit is provided for impure air 
somewhere towards the upper part of a room, and an aperture 
for the ingress of pure air is placed near the floor. 

But, as every one knows, the ventilation of an ordinary sitting- 
room is effected without the aid of any special apparatus. Quite 
enough fresh air can get into the room through the cracks 
which are always to be found between the window-sashes, 
underneath the door, and so on. Sufficient provision for the 
exit of impure air is provided by the chimney, especially when 
a fire is burning. Though these apertures ensure a satisfactory 
ventilation of the room, so far as keeping the air pure enough 
to breathe is concerned, the method is in another respect far 
from satisfactory, since draughts causing great inconvenience 
are produced. The methods of ventilation to be described 
immediately are all intended to avoid these draughts. 

VENTILATORS 

194. An experiment in ventilation. Repeat the experiment of 
burning a candle under a chimney glass from a lamp, and convince 
yourself that the introduction of the piece of card in the manner there 
described (p. 69) produces regular currents up one side, and down 
the other, of the chimney, which enable the candle to continue to burn 
brightly. Show the presence of the currents by the aid of the smoke 
from a piece of smouldering brown paper. 

195. Models of Ventilators. (a) Examine as many models of 
ventilators as are available. In each case determine the means provided 
for the supply of fresh air from outside, and for the escape of the impure 
air from the room with which the ventilator is connected. 

(6) Classify the ventilators of which you have models into those used 
in connection with (i. ) windows, (ii.) walls and chimneys, (iii.) special 
tubes. 

Definition of ventilation. The object of the different 
ventilators now to be described is the successful ventilation of 
the rooms with which they are attached. Dr. Childs, in the 



XV VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 193 

paper to which reference has already been made, defines 
successful ventilation as that which provides a supply of air 

(1) sufficient in quantity ; 

(2) of proper quality ; 

(3) of a suitable degree of temperature and humidity ; 

(4) properly distributed in equal proportion to each in- 

dividual ; 

(5) without producing any discomfort or feeling of draught, 

or any gradual though imperceptible depression of 
health : 

(6) with provision for complete removal of the air which has 

been exhaled by any individual ; 

(7) in such a way as to maintain full bodily and mental 

vigour ; 

(8) in such a way that the whole process is reasonably 

practicable and economical. 

Ventilators connected with windows. To avoid the 
draughts caused when ventilation is effected by the fresh air 
coming into a room by means of the cracks between window 
sashes, it has been found a good thing to provide a special 
aperture which gives the incoming air an upward tendency ; so 
that, before coming into contact with the persons in the room, it 
gets warmed to some extent. Many plans are in common use, 
of which the following are the most important. 

Hinckes Bird's method. This simple plan of giving the 
fresh air introduced into the room an upward tendency is easily 
understood by a reference to Fig. 126. The lower sash of the 
window is opened about three or four inches, and the opening so 
formed is closed with a length of board which just fills the 
aperture. In this way a space is left between the two sashes in 
the neighbourhood of the fastener, and through this the air 
coming in from outside is given an upward tendency. 

An improved modification of this device is to make the 
lower sash with a double pane of glass. The principle is 
the same, but there is the important advantage that no lighf 
is lost. 

Louvred glass panes. Some authorities maintain that 
this expedient is too small to be really effective. The principle 
of its construction is the same as that of a Venetian blind. One 
of the panes of the upper sash, preferably one of the bottom 

EXP. HYG. O 



194 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



row, is made in strips, which can be manipulated in the same 
way as the bands of an ordinary Venetian blind. When open, 
the individual strips of glass slope upwards towards the ceiling 
of the room, and consequently give the air introduced from out- 
side the necessary upward direction. In this kind of ventilator, 

too, little light is inter- 
cepted (Fig. 126). 

Cooper's ventila- 
tor. As Fig. 126 makes 
sufficiently clear, the idea 
proposed by Cooper is to 
have a circular sheet of 
glass, provided with five 
or more holes, fixed on 
a window pane perforated 
in a similar manner, in 
such a way that the rota- 
tion of the circular sheet 
of glass brings its per- 
forations opposite those 
of the window pane. 

Other expedients. 
In schools it is a com- 
mon plan to have at the 
top of the window a sash 
that swings from pivots 
fixed in the middle of the 
frame. This sash is 
manipulated by strings, 
and when open slants in 

just the same way as the individual strips of a louvred glass pane. 
Sometimes a number of holes are bored in the bottom 
hor^ontal bar of the upper window sash, and the air entering 
through these is of necessity deflected upwards. But since the 
holes considerably weaken the sash, the method cannot be 
recommended. 

Double windows, which enable the air in winter to become 
warmed before entering the room, are really only a special case 
of Hinckes Bird's idea. 
Ventilators in connection with walls and chimneys. 




FIG. 126. Three methods of ventilation 
by windows. 



xv VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 195 




The object in view when using any of the ventilators connected 
with walls or chimneys is the same as in the case of those fixed 
to windows. The chief forms are : 

Apertures in the wall. A typical instance of this kind of 
ventilator is the well-known Sherringham valve. Into a suitably 
large hole in the wall fits a metal box, which is closed on the 
inside by a valve in the form of a heavy flap, which can be 
opened or shut by means of a weight attached to the end of a 
string passing over a pulley. When open, the flap is inclined 
to the face of the wall, so that 
the air is given the proper 
upward direction. On the out- 
side the box is closed by an 
iron grating. The arrangement 
can be made out in Fig. 127. 

The drawer ventilator of 
Stevens is very similar to a 
Sherringham valve. A box of 
the same length as the thick- 
ness Of the wall where it is to FIG. 127. Sherringham valve for fixing 

be fixed, is made with a handle in a wal1 to ventilate a room, 

at one end, and minus the side 

at the opposite end. It is pushed into a hole in the wall of 
the proper size, with the handle in the room. The consequence 
is that when the box is pushed from the inside of the room as 
far as it will go, no air can enter the room. When, however, 
the box is pulled out, air enters, and is deflected upwards by the 
end of the box carrying the handle. 

Ellison's ventilator. It can easily be shown experi- 
mentally that when air is forced down a cone, like a speaking 
trumpet, from the narrow end, it leaves the wide end of the cone 
with very little force. The widening and spreading of the 
stream of air which takes place is the cause of this. Ellison 
has made use of this fact in his perforated bricks (Fig. 128). 
These bricks are bored with holes in the shape of cones, and the 
bricks are built into the wall with the narrow end of the cones on 
the outside of the room. The air which enters the narrow end 
of the cone is so spread out before it enters the room that no 
draught at all is caused. These bricks are often placed behind 
the skirting boards round the room. 

O 2 



196 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



ELLISON 



Automatic ventilators. A light metal flap suitably 
supported so that it allows air to pass from a room, but not into 
it, is often fixed in the wall so that it opens into the chimney 
flue. The air from the room, rendered impure by the breathing 
of the occupants, is able to pass up the chimney, but a current 
from the chimney into the room at once shuts the valve so that 
no smoke can pass into the room. This flap is known after its 
inventor as Arnotfs valve. Boyle's exit ventilator is of the same 
kind, but, instead of a single metal 
flap, there are several made of mica. 

Ventilation by special tubes. 
Tobiris tube. In this arrangement 
the inlet for fresh air is placed near 
the floor, and is connected with a 
vertical tube not exceeding six feet in 
^ height, which is provided with a 

hinged cover for closing the tube 
when it is not in use. The plan of 
its construction will be understood 
without difficulty from Fig. 128. The 
FRESH advantage of Tobin's tubes is that the 
AIR ENTERING a i r before spreading and mixing with 

<THROUGH 

GRATING tnat of the room, is warmed first of all, 
and then sent towards the ceiling, from 
which it gently descends without any 
draught. The tubes have the dis- 
advantage of collecting dust, and in 
towns, unless special means are pro- 
vided to avoid it, they introduce 
smuts and other dust into the room from the streets. 

MacKinneFs tube. This form of ventilator is particularly 
useful for one-storeyed buildings. It consists (Fig. 129) of two 
concentrically arranged tubes. The inner smaller tube extends 
from beneath the ceiling of the room, where it is provided with 
a circular rim, through the roof to the outside air. The outer 
wider tube also connects the room with the exterior air, but the 
opening at the lower end is on a level with the ceiling, and out- 
side the roof it is not so high as the inner tube. The inner tube 
acts as an extractor of the impure warm air, its work being 
sometimes facilitated by lighting a gas jet in the tube. Cold, 




FIG. 128. Ventilation by Elli- 
son's bricks and Tobin's tube. 



VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 



197 



pure air enters by the space between the tubes, and if a gas iet 
is burning in the inner tube this will, to some extent, warm the 
incoming air. The rim round the inner tube causes the current 
of cold air to spread out as it enters the room. 

Artificial ventilation. All the mechanical contrivances 
used in artificial ventilation have for their object one of two 
things. Either the im- 

COWL 

INTO OPEN AIR 



INTO OPEN 
AIR 




=% CEILING 
INTO ROOM 

FIG. 129. MacKinnel's tube for ventilation. 



pure air is to be got 
rid of by some means 
of extraction, its room 
being taken from out- 
side air, which enters 
through all available 
cracks and crevices ; 
or, the apparatus em- 
ployed is designed to 
supply necessary quan- 
tities of fresh air from 
outside, and so push 
out the impure air, 
which escapes wher- 
ever it can. These 

methods are only necessary in the case of large buildings, 
schools, theatres, and so on. 

Warming and ventilation. In the British Isles the 
temperature of the air outside a house is, in summer, as high as, 
or even higher than, inside. The problem of ventilation is then 
a simple one, for it is only necessary to throw open the windows 
and doors to let pure fresh air pass through the house. But 
during some eight months of the year the temperature in the 
open is much lower than that desirable for comfort in the 
house, and some system of warming is necessary. Most of 
the methods described under natural ventilation, consisting as 
they do of the introduction of the air from outside without any 
preliminary warming, are very liable to produce draughts. It 
becomes desirable, therefore, to consider the subject of warming- 
buildings in connection with this question of ventilation. The 
simplest plan will be to describe in order the different systems 
of warming, and incidentally see at the same time how the 
problem of ventilation is modified by them. 



198 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

The methods of warming in common use can be classified 
under three headings : (i) Open fire-places, (2) Stoves, (3) 
Hot-water and steam pipes. These may with advantage be 
considered in order. 

Open fire-places. The commonest, and at the same time 
the pleasantest, way of warming a room is by means of the open 
fire-place. As ordinarily made use of, such fire-places are. 
however, very wasteful. It has been calculated that about 
seven-eighths of the heat of combustion of the fuel is wasted. 
In addition, the strong current produced by the fire up the 
chimney gives rise to cutting draughts, especially under the 
door. In even moderately-sized rooms, the air in the part 
most remote from the fire is not warmed at all, and when a 
good fire is burning, persons near the fire are too hot. 

In studying the ways in which heat is conveyed from one 
place to another, it has already been learnt that such trans- 
mission can take place by conduction, by convection, and by 
radiation. In the case of a room with an open fire, the chief 
transference of heat is effected by convection and radiation. It 
is only in the absence of special precautions that conduction 
becomes an important factor ; and then it results in a consider- 
able loss of heat by its conduction to the outer walls of the house 
by the iron of the grate. It has been pointed out in a previous 
chapter that heat is radiated through space without warming the 
medium through which it passes. The air of a room is not 
directly warmed by the heat radiated from the fire ; it is only 
after such heat has been absorbed by the walls, by the furniture, 
and by the bodies of people in the room, that these surfaces, 
which are thereby warmed, are able to heat the air by convec- 
tion. The air near the fire and in contact with the warm fire- 
place is also heated by convection. 

To prevent the loss of heat by conduction through the metal of 
the grate, a special method of construction is sometimes adopted. 
The plan is due to Teale. In Teates grate as little metal as pos- 
sible is employed. The back and sides of the fire-place are made 
of a non-conducting material, such as fire-brick. The brick back 
is inclined forwards as much as is possible, consistent with the 
proper escape of the smoke up the chimney, and in this way the 
warmth of the smoke and escaping gases is to a large extent 
imparted to the walls of the room. The fire-brick sides are 



XV 



VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 



199 



either parabolic in shape, or inclined towards one another. The 
bars in front of the fire are vertical, narrow, and close together. 
The ash-pit below the fire is closed by means of a metal plate 
called an economizer, which is, however, provided with an open- 
ing, which can be shut when the fuel is well alight. It will at 
once be evident that such a fire-place will cause the whole of 
the hearth and neighbourhood to get very warm, and when these 
grates are employed care should be taken that no combustible 




FIG. 130. Front view and side section of a Teale's grate. 

material is used in the construction of the parts of the room 
near the fire-place. 

Grates which warm the incoming air. It has been 
repeatedly stated that in winter, when a room requires warming, 
the fresh air provided in ventilating the room, if it comes directly 
from outside, has a temperature considerably lower than that 
inside the room. Unless some means are taken, therefore, to 
warm the air as it enters the room, draughts are almost sure to 
be caused. Several types of fire-grates have been devised with 
this object of warming the incoming air. All of them are modi- 
fications of a plan originally proposed by Cardinal Polignac, at 
the beginning of the eighteenth century. It will be sufficient 
to refer to the chief characteristics of the grate of this kind, 
designed by the late Sir Douglas Gallon. 

There is in connection with Gallon's grate an air chamber, 



200 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



situated at the back of the grate, and in communication on the 
outside of the building with the fresh air supply, and on the 
inside with the air of the room. The chimney flue in connection 
with the fire passes through this air chamber, the consequence 
being that the current of air from outside the room into the 
interior is duly warmed before its ingress. The air chamber is 
in communication with the room by an opening near the ceiling. 
To prevent loss of heat by conduct-ion through the metal of 
the fire-grate, it is lined with fire-bricks. These are arranged 

in a special manner so 
as to effect a complete 
combustion of the fuel. 
From what has al- 
ready been learnt, it 
will be understood that 
the warm air supplied 
to the room by an 
aperture near the ceil- 
ing will as it cools get 
heavier and sink, and 
when it reaches the 
level of the constant 
current along the floor 
towards the fireplace, 




FIG. 131. Section showing how the incoming air is 
warmed by the Galton grate. (Adapted from 
Reynolds's Hygiene.) 



it will be absorbed by this current and be eventually carried 
up the chimney. During its downward passage the air is con- 
taminated by the respiration of the inhabitants of the room. 
A continual circulation of air is secured by Galton's stove, a 
current of pure warm air inwards, and a current of impure 
air outwards by means of the chimney. 

Stoves. A stove is essentially a metal box, connected with 
the outer air, in which some combustible material is burnt. Its 
use is associated with a few advantages, but perhaps with more 
disadvantages. Stoves are more economical than grates, and 
much cleaner. They supply no radiant heat to speak of, and 
the consequence is that the occupants of dwellings warmed by 
stoves are warmed chiefly by the air, which is raised to a high 
temperature by convection by direct contact with the stove. 

Stoves are commonly made of cast-iron, and this iron often 
gets red-hot. This fact leads to several dangers. Red-hot cast- 



xv VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 201 

iron is very porous to the gases formed by the combustion of 
the fuel. Among these products in a stove in which coal or 
coke is burnt, are carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide, both 
of them fatal to life, the latter gas being absolutely poisonous. 
Because of this porosity of highly heated cast-iron, stoves should 
always be lined with fire-brick ; they may with advantage be 
covered on the outside with tiles. 

A common complaint against stoves is that they give rise to 
an uncomfortable feeling of dryness in the air of the room in 
which they are used. Many people contend, indeed, that this 
dryness is not only unpleasant but harmful. Mr. Thomas 
Fletcher maintains that this dryness is due, in the case of gas 
stoves, to the escape of some of the products of combustion into 
the room. The feeling of dryness in the throat and nostrils is 
caused, Mr. Fletcher says, by the compounds of sulphur which 
find their way into the room with escaping products of combus- 
tion. Other authorities are of opinion that the so-called dry 
feeling is to be traced to the burning of tiny particles of organic 
matter present in the air, by their contact with the highly 
heated metal of the stove. 

A simple method of mitigating, to some extent at least, this 
feeling of dryness is to have a bowl of water exposed to the air 
of the room. The continual evaporation which will go on will 
supply any deficiency of water vapour in the air which may 
result from the higher temperature to which it is heated ; and 
it will also serve, to a large extent, the purpose of dissolving any 
gaseous compounds of sulphur which may be present in the air 
of the room. 

Whatever the material which is burnt in a room, be it coal, 
coke, or gas, there should always be a flue in connection with the 
open air to conduct away the products of combustion. 

Stoves easily lend themselves to the purpose of at the same 
time warming and ventilating a room. The plan adopted in 
the case of stoves in which coal or coke is burnt can be made 
out from an examination of Fig. 132, which shows the " Sandring- 
hani " warm air stove, in which smokeless coal may be burnt. 
Fresh air is provided by means of a tube under the floor in con- 
nection with an opening at the bottom of the stove. This open- 
ing is in direct communication with a chamber of air forming 
the outer part of the stove, in contact, by means of a grating, 



202 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP, 



with the air of the room. The products of combustion from the 
stove, as well as the impure air of the room, pass out by way of 
the flue. The fresh air from outside is in this stove effectually 
warmed before it enters the room. 

A gas stove which brings about the same result in a very 
effective manner is that designed by Dr. Bond, and called the 
" Euthermic ventilating gas stove." The fresh air is provided 
through the tube, E (Fig. 133), into the air chamber, DEC, in 




FIG. 132. " Sandringham " warm air stove. 

communication with the air of the room through the grating, 
F. The products of combustion from the burners, shown at K, 
pass through the space between the inner air chamber and the 
outer walls of the stove, and escape by way of the flue, H. 

Heating by hot-water and steam. The methods 01 
heating by hot-water and steam are more useful for large insti- 
tutions than for dwelling-houses. The commonest way of utilis- 
ing hot water is that known as the low pressure system. The 
principle underlying this method is the same as that exemplified 
in the experiment on p. 69, where convection currents are shown 
in the apparatus made of glass tubes in connection with a 
reservoir of water. 

The low pressure system, reduced to its simplest terms, is 



XV 



VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 



203 



FRESH WARM AIR 



shown in Fig. 134. The boiler, B, the pipes, ab, ec, and the coils, 
C, C, are nearly full of water. This water, before the fire in the 
stove below B is lighted, is cold. When the layers of water 
near the bottom of the boiler are heated, they get lighter and 
rise up the tube, ab^ to the top of the building, where the water 
gives out its heat to the upper room. The place of the rising 
water is taken by cold water from the other pipe, ecd, which, in 
its turn, gets warmed and rises. In the meanwhile, the warm 
water in the upper rooms has given out its heat, and becomes 
cold again, sinking to 
the level of the boiler to 
be again warmed. This 
circulation continues so 
long as there is a fire in 
the furnace, and in con- 
sequence a supply of 
heat can be kept up as 
long as is desired. The 
water in the pipes of a 
low pressure system 
never gets hotter than 
a few degrees below the 
boiling point of water, a 
temperature which does 
not interfere with the 
healthy life of persons 
living in the building. 

This plan for warming rooms of a large size is on the whole 
a very satisfactory one. It is under good control, and the coils 
of pipes from which the heat is given out can be arranged 
anywhere that is thought desirable. 

Another hot-water system is in use under the name of the 
high pressure system. Its use cannot be recommended for 
ordinary purposes, since it requires constant skilled attention. 
In the high pressure system much smaller pipes than those 
in the low pressure plan are used. Instead of a boiler of the 
ordinary form, a coil of iron tubing is used, and this is placed in 
the fire of the furnace. 

The small amount of water contained by the pipes is soon 
heated to as high a temperature as is ever attained. There is 




FIG. 133. Bond's Euthermic ventilating gas 
stove. 



204 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



perhaps more risk of an explosion in this system than in the 
low pressure, but in the case of such accident there is no 
great danger, as when a pipe breaks there is merely an escape 
of steam and water and no pieces of metal fly about. 

Steam is generally only employed in special circumstances. 




FIG. 134. Arrangement of pipes for heating a building with hot water. 

If steam is already being employed for the purpose of driving 
machinery, it is convenient to use it also for warming purposes. 
Consequently, in places like laundries it is a convenient source 
of heat. In recent years it has become customary to warm 
railway carriages by steam. 



xv VENTILATION AND VENTILATORS 205 



SUMMARY. 

The need for ventilation. Breathing and burning continually in- 
crease the amount of carbon dioxide in the air. For healthy life, air 
containing more than six parts of carbon dioxide in ten thousand should 
not be breathed. Ventilation is the problem of keeping the percentage 
of carbon dioxide below this amount without causing draughts. 

Space necessary for health. To keep healthy, a man should have at 
least two thousand cubic feet of fresh air an hour. 

Changing the air of a room. The sensation of draught depends 
chiefly upon the speed with which fresh air enters a room. If the speed 
of incoming air is less than three feet a second, no draught is caused. If 
air is warm, its speed may be five feet a second. 

Two systems of ventilation. Natiiral ventilation makes use of the 
common properties of gases, such as convection currents, and diffusion. 
For large buildings mechanical contrivances are employed. 

Diffusion of gases is due to the incessant movements of the molecules 
of a gas. A light gas diffuses more rapidly than a heavy one. 

Convection currents in gases have been studied sufficiently in 
Chapter VI. 

Ventilators may be divided into those in connection with (a) windows, 
(b) walls and chimneys, (c] special tubes. 

Window ventilators. Hinckes Bird's method, louvred glass panes, 
Cooper's ventilator, and others may be mentioned under this class. 

Wall and chimney ventilators. The Sherringham valve, Stevens's 
drawer ventilator, Ellison's perforated bricks, Arnott's and Boyle's 
valves, may be classed in this way. 

Special tubes. Tobin's and MacKinnel's are typical instances. 

Methods of warming. These may be classified under three head- 
ings : (i) Open fire-places, (2) Stoves, (3) Hot-water and steam pipes. 

Open fire-places. These are wasteful and produce draughts. Teale's 
grate diminishes loss of heat by conduction and ensures the slow com- 
bustion of the fuel. Gallon's grate is specially designed to warm the in- 
coming air ; it combines ventilation and warming. 

Stoves. These are more economical than grates, and much cleaner. 
Since red-hot cast-iron is porous to the products of combustion, stoves 
should be lined with fire-brick, and be covered outside with tiles. There 
should always be a flue in connection with the open air, to carry away 
the products of combustion. Bond's stove serves both to warm and 
ventilate a room. 

Hot-water and steam pipes. The low pressure system of hot- water 
pipes is the commonest. It is under good control, and is on the whole 
very satisfactory. The high pressure system requires constant attention ; 
with it much smaller pipes are used, and the small amount of water 
they hold is soon heated to a high temperature. 

If steam is already in use for driving machinery, it can also be used 
conveniently for warming purposes. 



206 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. xv 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XV. 

1. What do you understand by the " diffusion of gases" ? Describe 
an experiment you would perform to make your meaning clear. 

2. Name the different ways in which heat may pass from one place 
to another. Which of these is made use of when a room is warmed by 
an open fire ? 

3. Why is it necessary to ventilate rooms in which people live ? Ex- 
plain when a room is properly ventilated. 

4. How often should the air of a room be changed ? Make it quite 
clear in your answer that you understand what circumstances must be 
taken into account. 

5. How are convection currents made use of in ventilating a room ? 
Explain when a draught is likely to be caused by utilising them. 

6. It is very common to feel a draught when sitting between an open 
fire-place and the door, especially a draught to' one's legs. Why is this, 
and how may it be prevented ? 

7. Draw and describe two kinds of ventilators used in connection 
with windows. Point out the advantages and disadvantages of the 
forms you select for description. 

8. Draw a Sherringham valve and one of Ellison's perforated bricks. 
What is the object of each device ? 

9. Describe a simple form of automatic ventilator. With the aid of 
a sketch explain its action. 

10. Enumerate the advantages of a Tobin's tube as a ventilator for a 
school class-room. Has it any disadvantages ? 

1 1. Sketch MacKinnel's tube ventilator, and explain the way in which 
it serves to keep a room ventilated. 

12. What is meant by a slow combustion grate ? Describe any form 
with which you are acquainted. 

13. What are the advantages of cooking by gas ? What conditions 
should a gas-cooking oven fulfil ? (1888.) 

14. What are the forces which produce natural ventilation ? How 
may the wind be practically utilised ? (1888.) 

15. Describe in detail a grate or stove provided with an arrangement 
for the introduction of warm, fresh air. (1889.) 

1 6. Explain the principle of construction of an ordinary fire-grate, 
and state its advantages and disadvantages. (1892.) 

17. Describe and compare the action of ordinary fire-places and hot- 
water pipes in warming and ventilating rooms. ( 1 894. ) 

1 8. What are the best means of ventilating a room -without causing 
draughts ? If possible, illustrate your answer by a sketch. (1894.) 

19. What is carbonic acid? What are its sources ? What part does 
it play as a sign of good or bad ventilation ? (1896. ) 

20. What are the objections to stoves as a means of heating dwelling- 
rooms ? Describe any two forms with which you may be familiar, and 
point out their respective advantages and disadvantages. (1896.) 



CHAPTER XVI 



THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 
GLUTEN 

196. The appearance of good flour. Examine a sample of ordinary 
flour, such as is used for bread-making. Its colour is white, with just a 
suggestion of cream colour. It has a faint and pleasant characteristic 

odour, and it is sweet and somewhat 
"nutty" to the taste. Rub a little 
between the finger and thumb, and 
notice the "feel." Press some in the 
hand. The flour sticks together slightly, 
but, unless it is too damp, it falls apart 
again when the pressure is removed. 

197. Dough. Weigh out 10 grams 
of the flour into an evaporating basin, 
and add water from a burette (Fig. 135) 
in small quantities at a time, stirring 
with a strong glass rod until a uniform 
dough is obtained, which can be kneaded 
between the fingers without either feel- 
ing sticky or leaving particles of flour 
behind. This point can be determined 
very exactly ; and it will be found that 
a certain weight of flour from the same 
sample always requires the same amount 
of water to make a dough of this con- 
sistency. The greater the quantity of 
water required, the "stronger" is the 
flour. If different qualities of flour can 
be obtained, find how much water is 
required in each case to form a dough 

with 10 grams ; and notice that the samples which require most water 
are the strongest when the dough is pulled gently by the fingers. 

198 . The separation of dough into its constituents. Tie up the dough 
in a piece of muslin or an old handkerchief, and knead it gently between 




FIG. 135. Burettes supported in a 
burette stand. 



208 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



the fingers in a basin of water. The water at once becomes milky, 
owing to the starch which comes from the dough. Continue the 
kneading and change the water from time to time until no more 
milkiness is produced. Now open the cloth and examine the gluten 
which is left. 

199. The properties of wet gluten. Freshly prepared gluten of good 
quality is greyish-yellow in colour. From the method of its preparai ion 
it is evident that it is insoluble in water. When pulled it is found to 
be very tenacious and elastic, for it springs back when released, like 
thin india-rubber. It is practically free from taste and smell. So long 

as it is wet it does not stick to 
the fingers, but if allowed to dry 
slightly it becomes sticky. 

200. The proportion of dry 
gluten contained in flour. 
Weigh a clean and dry flat- 
bottomed dish and spread out 
the gluten as evenly as possible 
in it. ' Put the dish into the air- 
oven (Fig. 136), and heat it at a 
temperature of just over 100 C. 
for two or three hours. Then 
cool the dish and weigh again. 
The difference between this 
weight and that of the empty 
dish is the weight of the dry 
gluten obtained from the 10 
grams of flour taken (Expt. 197). 
Multiply this by 10 to obtain 
the percentage of dry gluten in 
the sample of flour. 

Good wheaten flour contains 
from 10 to 13 per cent, of dry 
gluten. 

201. The properties of dry gluten. The gluten has changed in colour 
during drying, and has become very hard and brittle, like glue, and 
difficult to remove from the dish. Break a piece off, and soak it in 
water. It will be found impossible to restore the gluten to its former 
plastic condition. 

202. The effects of heat upon gluten. Meat the dish containing the 
gluten by means of the Bunsen flame. The gluien blackens (showing 
the presence of carbon), shrivels up, melts, and gives off smoke with an 
odour somewhat like that of burning hair or feathers. This peculiar 
smell indicates the presence of 'nitrogen. At last the gluten bursts into 
flame, and if the heating is continued, burns away. 

203. Gluten readily decomposes. Prepare another piece of gluten, 
and, without drying, put it aside for a few days in a dish. It soon 
putrefies and acquires a most offensive smell. 

flour. Wheat flour is a white or creamy powder, 




136. Air-oven heated by rose-burner 



xvi THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 209 

with a taint pleasant odour. It has a "nutty" and slightly sweet 
taste. When good flour is taken up in the hand and squeezed, 
it shows a slight tendency to stick together, but it readily falls 
apart again when the pressure is removed. 

Dough. When flour is mixed with water, it forms a plastic 
mass, known as dough. Some flours require more water than 
others to form a dough of a given consistency. These are 
known as " strong " flours. The dough obtained from them is 
very tenacious. 

The chief constituents of flour. When dough is tied 
up in a piece of muslin and kneaded in water, it separates into 
two constituents with very different properties. One of these, 
starch, comes through the meshes of the eloth and turns the water 
milky. If allowed to settle, it forms a white deposit, which may 
be collected and dried. When the starch has been completely 
separated, the muslin is found to contain a greyish indiarubbery 
mass, called gluten. 

Gluten. Fine wheaten flour contains from 10 to 13 per 
cent, of gluten. This, when freshly separated from dough, is 
a tenacious, elastic substance, somewhat of the consistency of 
thin india-rubber. 

When gluten is dried at the temperature of boiling water, it 
becomes very hard and brittle, like glue, and cannot be again 
transformed into the plastic condition. When it is strongly heated, 
it blackens, shrivels up, and smokes, giving off a strong odour re- 
sembling that of burning feathers or hair, due to certain com- 
pounds of nitrogen. On continued ignition it catches fire, and 
at last burns completely away. 

When gluten in the plastic or indiarubbery state is exposed 
to the air, it soon begins to decompose or putrefy, and gives off 
gases which smell most offensively. 

Gluten has the following percentage composition, that is, in 
loo parts of gluten the following elements are present in the 
proportions shown : 

Carbon 52'6 

Hydrogen, 7-0 

Nitrogen 16-0 

Oxygen, with traces of sulphur 24*4 

lOO'O 
EXP. HYG. P 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



Proteids. The composition of gluten is almost exactly 
the same as that of albumin or white of egg, in spite of the 
great differences in their appearance. In fact, both gluten and 
albumin are included by chemists in the group of bodies called 
proteids. Later on we shall have to consider several other pro- 
teids. The great importance of these compounds lies in the 
fact that animals cannot live unless a certain amount of proteid 
matter is included in their food ; for this is the only form in 
which the absolutely necessary element nitrogen can be made 
use of by the animal body. 

The value of gluten as a food. Gluten is not only a 
proteid, but one which is easily digested. On this account 
it has a very high nutritive value. 

Gluten itself, mixed with only a very small quantity of starch, 
is sometimes baked into loaves and biscuits for the use of 
patients suffering from diabetes. The starch which is con- 
sidered injurious in cases of diabetes is removed before baking 
by kneading the dough under a stream of water. Bread made 
in this way is known as gluten bread. 

STAECH 

204. Appearance of starch. Examine some lumps of ordinary 
laundry starch. The masses have a general resemblance to irregular 
prisms, which are often twisted. Carefully distinguish these from 
crystals. 

Starch is non-crystalline. The colour is a dead white. The pieces 
of starch are very brittle and may easily be reduced to a fine powder. 

Crush a lump in the mortar, and rub a little of the powder between 
the finger and thumb. 

The starch has a somewhat "harsh" feel. It is quite devoid of 
taste and smell. 

205. Make a solution of iodine. Add a small crystal of potassium 
iodide to about a cupful of water, and then add iodine in small particles 
at a time, stirring continually, until the solution is the colour of sherry. 
Put the solution into a bottle and label it. 

Iodine dissolves much more freely in water containing potassium 
iodide than in water alone. 

206. The action of iodine upon starch. Pour a drop of the iodine 
solution on a lump of starch. The starch at once becomes dark blue 
in colour. The production of this colour on adding iodine solution is the 
best test for starch. 

207. Starch is present in potatoes. Cut a slice from a potato, and 
pour a drop of iodine solution on it. In a few moments the surface 
of the potato is seen to be covered with tiny blue dots. 



xvi THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 211 

208. Starch is present in grains of wheat and maize. (a) Soak 
grains of wheat and maize in water over-night, and then cut them 
through with a sharp knife, and pour iodine solution upon the cut 
surfaces. The blue colour shows the presence of starch. 

(b) Try the same experiment with rice, sago, and tapioca. Prove 
the presence of starch in flour. 

209. Starch is formed in green leaves. Take a few leaves from a 
plant (a fuchsia answers very well) which has been exposed to sunlight for 
some hours, and put them into boiling water for a few minutes. Then 
place them in methylated spirit until they are bleached. Now wash 
them by placing in water ; pour the water off, and cover them with 
iodine solution. The leaves turn blue, showing the presence of starch. 

210. The microscopic appearance of starch grains. (a) Put a small 
drop of water upon a clean microscope-slide. Scrape very gently the 




-*5TT ' 

FIG. 137. A thin slice of potato, highly magnified, a, cell-walls, 
composed of cellulose ; b, starch grains. 



cut surface of a potato with the point of a knife, and then dip the 
knife-point into the drop of water. This becomes milky. Now gently 
lower a clean "cover-glass" upon the drop, being careful not to enclose 
any air-bubbles. Put the slide upon the stage of the microscope and 
examine with the low power (the " i-inch " objective). Notice the large 
number of glistening particles (Fig. 137). These are the starch grains of 
the potato. They vary much in size and shape, the smallest being 
almost spherical, while the largest are roughly ovoid. By careful 
focussing, the large grains are seen to be made up of a number of 
concentric layers surrounding a dark spot, which is generally near the 
smaller end of the grain. 

(b) Place a drop of iodine solution at one side of the cover-glass, taking 

P 2 



212 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



care that none gets on its upper surface, and put a small piece of 
blotting-paper at the opposite edge of the cover-glass. This draws the 
iodine solution under the cover-glass. Notice that the grains become 
blue as the iodine solution reaches them. Potato starch is good for 
practice because the grains are so large. 

(c) For the examination of most other starches a high power (the 
"|-inch" objective) is necessary. Add a particle of "corn-flour" 
(usually maize flour) to a small drop of water so as to turn it just milky. 
Examine this with the high power in the same way. In this case the 
grains are of a quite different shape. 




FIG. 138. Grains of wheat starch, highly magnified. 

(d) Similarly, examine wheat flour (Fig. 138) and rice-starch (Fig. 139) 
and notice the differences in the size and shape of the starch grains. 

211. Starch is insoluble in cold water. Mix with cold water as 
much starch as will go on a shilling ; filter carefully so that the liquid 
which parses through is quite clear. Add iodine solution to this. The 
liquid does not become blue showing that no starch has been dissolved. 

212. Starch is soluble in hot water. (a) Take the same quantity 
of starch as in the last experiment and make it into a thin cream with 
a little cold water in an evaporat ing-dish. Now add about a cupful of 
boiling water and stir. The starch swells up and forms an almost clear 
solution. Take a drop of this and examine it, after covering with a 
cover-glass, under the microscope. No starch grains can be seen. 
They have been burst by the boiling water, and most of their contents 
have dissolved. 

(It) Add a drop or two of the starch solution (often called starch paste) 



XVI 



THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 



213 



to a cupful of water, and add iodine solution. Notice that, even with 
the very small quantity of starch present, a beautiful blue colour is 
formed, showing that the test is a very delicate one. 

Heat the liquid ; the blue colour is destroyed. Cool the liquid again ; 
the colour reappears. 

213. Starch-paste is neutral. (a) With a glass rod place a drop of 




FIG. 139. Grains of rice starch, highly magnified. 

starch-paste upon (i) red litmus paper, and (2) blue litmus paper. In 
neither case does the litmus paper change colour. Starch paste is 
neutral. 

(f>) Similarly, place drops of vinegar and weak sodium carbonate 
solution upon red and blue litmus papers. Observe what occurs, and 
tabulate the results as follows : 



Substance. 

j 


Action upon red 
litmus paper. 


Action upon blue 
litmus paper. 


Acid or 
alkaline. 


Vinegar . . 

Sodium carbon- 
ate .... 




None. 

Paper turned 
blue. 


Paper turned 
red. 

None. 


Acid. 
Alkaline. 



Starch paste 



None. 



None. 



Neutral. 



214 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



t.t. 



214. Starch paste will not pass through moist parchment paper. 
(a) Take a thistle-funnel, and with a file cut through the stem about 
six inches below the head. Wet a piece of parchment paper (having 
previously held the paper up to the light to be sure there are no holes 
in it), and tie it tightly across the mouth of the funnel. Fill the head 
and about an inch of the stem of the funnel with thin starch paste. 
This can easily be done by means of a pipette (Fig. 64), or of a 
" canula " such as is used for filling fountain-pens. Now put the funnel 
into a beaker of water, in the manner shown in Fig. 140, and put the 
arrangement aside for a few hours. After that time add iodine solution 
to the water in the beaker. No blue colour 
is formed, showing that no starch has passed 
through the membrane. 

() The funnel and the parchment paper form 
what is called a dialyser. A substance which, 
when dissolved in water, is unable to pass 
through a moist membrane such as parchment 
paper is called a colloid. Starch is one of the 
most perfect colloids known. 

215. Glucose will pass through moist 
parchment paper. Repeat Expt. 214, but 
instead of starch paste use " glucose " (a variety 
of sugar used for making syrups, etc.). To 
show that some of the glucose has passed 
through the dialyser, take about a teaspoonful 
of the water in the beaker, and put it in a 
test-tube with twice as much Fehling's solu- 
tion. 1 Put the test-tube into a vessel of boiling 
water, and notice that in a short time the blue 
colour of the solution disappears, and the liquid 
becomes turbid with a red precipitate. 2 This 
shows the presence of glucose. 

A substance which, like glucose, will pass 
in solution through a moist membrane, is 
known as a crystalloid. 

216. The action of sulphuric acid upon 




p.p. 

FlG. 4<x A simple dia- 
lyser. b, beaker ; /, 
water; p-p-> parchment 
paper; t.t. t stem of thistle- 
funnel : s, starch paste in 
head of thistle - funnel. 
The starch paste does not 
pass through the parch- 
ment paper, but a solution starch. Make about half a pint of thin starch 
paste, and add to it about 20 drops of sul- 
phuric acid which has been diluted with five 

times its volume of water. Put the mixture into a flask, and keep it 
for some time at a temperature just below the boiling point. From 
time to time take out a few drops with a pipette (Fig. 64), and test 
with iodine solution. As the heating is continued, the colour pro- 
duced with iodine changes, until it is at last reddish brown. If 
now a few drops be allowed to fall into alcohol, flocculent matter 
will separate. 



1 Prepared by adding to a solution of copper sulphate first tartaric acid and then 
lustic soda until the blue mixture is clear. 

may be readily cleaned afterwards by means of a littls ammonia 



caust 

The test-tul 



xvi THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 215 

This substance is dextrin, sometimes known as British gum. 

At this point raise the mixture in the flask to boiling for about fifteen 
minutes, and test again with iodine. Very little colouration is now 
produced. Cool the liquid, and place some of it in a test-tube with 
Fehling's solution. On heating the test-tube in boiling water, the liquid 
becomes red and turbid, showing the presence of glucose. 

217. The action of malt extract upon starch. To about half a pint 
of thin starch paste add a tablespoonful of malt extract, and set the mixture 
aside for a few hours. Then test a portion of it with iodine solution. 
No blue colour is produced, showing that the starch has been changed- 
into something else. Test another portion with Fehling's solution. 
The red precipitate which is produced indicates that the starch has 
become changed into a sugar. 

In this case the sugar is not glucose, but maltose. 

218. The action of saliva upon starch. Put a few drops of starch 
paste into a test-tube and cover it with saliva. Put in a warm place for 
twenty minutes. Then add water and test for starch and sugar as in 
Expt. 217. 

219. How to change starch into dextrin. Put a small piece of 
starch into a porcelain dish, and moisten it with very dilute nitric acid. 
Put the dish . into the air-oven, and heat the oven with the Bunsen, 
using a rose-burner to spread the flame. Regulate the gas-flame so 
that the temperature of the oven, as indicated by the thermometer, is 
kept at about 150 C. for some time. 

The starch changes into a glassy substance, colourless or yellowish, 
which is soluble in water ; the solution gives neither a red precipitate 
with Fehling's solution, nor a blue colour with iodine solution. 

This glassy substance is dextrin or British gum. 

220. The effects of heat upon starch. Heat a piece of starch in a 
porcelain crucible by means of the Bunsen flame (Fig. 87). It turns 
yellow, brown, then black (owing to the separation of carbon}, and at last 
catches fire and burns. Upon prolonged heating, it burns almost 
completely away. 

221. Experiments with substances allied to starch. (a) The effects 
of heat upon filter paper. Cotton- wool and the best filter paper consist 
of almost pure cellulose, a substance similar in percentage composition 
to starch. Roll up a piece of filter paper, and put it in a porcelain 
crucible and heat with the Bunsen. Only a very small quantity of light 
ash is left. 

(b) The effects of heat upon wood. Weigh two or three wooden 
matches, after cutting off the heads. Break them into small pieces, and 
heat them strongly in a previously weighed porcelain crucible. When 
nothing but a white ash is left, cool the crucible and weigh again. 
Calculate the percentage of ash or mineral matter. 

Wood is largely composed of impure cellulose. 

(c) Heat splinters of wood in small glass tubes, and notice the forma- 
tion of charcoal when the air has not free access to the burning wood. 
Take out the charcoal, and finish the burning by heating it in a 
crucible. 

(d) Determine the percentage of mineral matter in writing-paper. 



216 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

Starch. Starch is a white, powdery, non-crystallisable 
substance, which is formed in nearly all green plants. It is 
formed in the leaves and other green parts, but is afterwards 
stored in various other portions of the plant. It is to be found, 
for example, especially abundantly in seeds (notably those of 
wheat, oats, barley and other cereals, peas, beans, etc.) ; in the 
stems of such plants as the sago palm (Fig. 145) ; in what the 
botanist calls the tubers (Fig. 141) of the potato (the part which is 




FIG. 141. A potato plant, showing the rounded " tubers" which are used for food. 

eaten) and some other plants ; and in roots. When examined 
microscopically, starch is seen to be composed of minute grains, 
which differ remarkably in size and shape, according to the 
plants in which they occur. 

Starch grains. A starch grain consists of layers arranged 
concentrically around a point called the hilum. The outer 
layer is the first-formed part. The largest starch grains of the 
potato may be Y*O f an inch in diameter, while, on the other 
hand, the starch grains in beet-root are only 35500 of an inch in 



XVI 



THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 



217 



diameter. The shape of starch grains, which is characteristic of 
the different plants, also varies greatly, as may be seen from 
Figs. 137 to 139. 

The action of water upon starch. Cold water has no 
action upon starch, but with hot water the grains swell up and 
burst. Their contents largely dissolve, forming a solution 
starch paste which when strong sets on cooling to a stiff jelly, 
which is used in stiffening linen as well as for other purposes. 

Starch paste is unable to diffuse through animal 
membranes. Starch paste differs from many other sub- 
stances, such as a solu- 
tion of sugar, in being 
unable to pass through 
an animal membrane 
or a sheet of wet 
parchment paper. This 
property has a very 
important bearing up- 
on the digestion of 
starch, for no sub- 
stance can be utilised 
by the body as food 
unless it is in a form 
which can diffuse 
through the walls of 
the digestive canal. 
Starch is changed into 
sugar in the body before it is absorbed by the blood circulating 
in the walls of the lower part of the digestive canal. 

The conversion of starch into sugar. Under certain 
conditions starch becomes changed into sugars of various kinds. 
When starch paste is heated to boiling with very dilute acids 
sulphuric or hydrochloric, for example it undergoes a series of 
changes, and is at last wholly converted into a variety of sugar 
called glucose, which has the power of giving a red precipitate 
when heated with Fehling's solution (p. 214). A somewhat 
similar change takes place when starch paste is treated w : th malt- 
extract. In the latter case the transformation is brought about 
by a substance called diastase, which is produced when barley 
seeds germinate. The gradual corrosion of the starch grain, as 




mm 



FIG. 142. Different stages of corrosion shown by 
the starch grains of germinating barley. (Very 
highly magnified.) 



2l8 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



it is converted into soluble sugar, is seen in Fig. 142. The 
sugar which is formed has, like glucose, the power of giving a 
red precipitate when heated with Fehling's solution, but has a 
different constitution and is known as maltose. 

The saliva and the pancreatic juice of the animal body 
contain minute quantities of substances which act upon cooked 
starch in the same manner, changing it into sugar a valuable 
food and hence enabling it to pass through the walls of the 
digestive canal and enter the blood. 

Young children, whose digestive organs are weak, are often 

supplied with maltedfoods. 
The diastase present in 
these assists the action of 
the saliva and pancreatic 
juice. 

The action of iodine 
upon starch. When a 
solution of iodine is added 
to starch, a beautiful blue 
colour is obtained. The 
colour is destroyed by 
heating, but reappears 
when the liquid is cooled. 
The formation of this 
colour upon the addition 
of iodine affords a ready 
means of detecting the 
presence of starch. 

Starch as a food. Starch, prepared in various ways, is 
extensively used as a food. Familiar examples of foods contain- 
ing starch are potatoes (Fig. 141) which consist very largely of 
starch and bread. Macaroni, arrowroot, sago, semolina, rice, 
corn-flour, and tapioca all popular and valuable articles of food 
consist almost wholly of starch. 

"Wheat starch. In most countries bread is the chief 
article of diet. To what circumstances bread owes its great 
value will be considered in a later chapter. It may be 
mentioned here that a sack of wheat flour weighing 280 Ibs. 
contains no less than 220 Ibs. of dry starch a fact which 
indicates the great importance of starch as a food. 




FIG. 143. Rhizome, or underground stem of 
Maranta, from which arrowroot is prepared. 



XVI 



THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 



219 



Arrowroot. The purest, and also one of the most palatable 
and easily digested, of starches is arrowroot. It is prepared 
from the underground stems (or rhizomes) of a plant named 
Maranta (Fig. 143), found in the West and East Indies. The 
starch of arrowroot swells up very readily in hot water. 

Tapioca is obtained from the roots of the Cassava (Fig. 144). 
The moist starch is heated with constant stirring on hot plates. 
During this process many of the starch grains burst and stick 
together, to form the small irregular masses familiar to cooks. 
Owing to its previous heating, tapioca is partly soluble in cold 
water, and readily forms a jelly with boil- 
ing water. 

Sago. Sago also undergoes a process 
of preparation before it is put upon the 
market. It is prepared from the pith of 
certain palms (Fig. 145) found in the 
Malay Archipelago, the Philippine 
Islands, and parts of India. Owing to 
the method of its preparation, the little 
balls swell up without losing their form 
when cooked. 

An article called " Indian Sago " is 
manufactured in France and Germany 
from potato-starch. Sago-starch is some- 
times used to adulterate cocoa and choco- 
late. 

Cooking. It has been seen (p. 212) 
that raw starch is insoluble in water. In 

this form, therefore, it is not easily acted upon by those diges- 
tive juices which change starch into sugar. When starch 
is cooked, however, the grains are ruptured, and their contents 
are converted into a soluble form which is readily changed into 
diffusible sugar. Hence all starches require to be cooked before 
they can be used as food. 

The use of starch for laundry purposes. Owing to its 
property of swelling up to form a stiff paste with boiling water, 
starch is much used for stiffening linen. In the ironing process 
the fabric acquires a glossy surface, which not only improves 
its appearance but also renders it much less liable to catch 
particles of dirt and become soiled. The best laundry starch is 




FIG. 144. : Root of the Cas- 
sava, from which tapioca 
is prepared. 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



made from rice, as this gives a higher lustre than any other ; 
but arrowroot and wheat starch are also used. 

The use of starch for manufacturing purposes. 
Starch is extensively used in the sizing and dressing of cotton and 




FIG. 145. The sago palm. 

other cloths. When converted into sugar, it is largely employed in 
brewing, for confectionery, and in the manufacture of syrups, etc. 



xvi THE CHIEF CONSTITUENTS OF FLOUR 221 



Dextrin, or "British gum," which is used in calico-printing, in 
*he preparation of some medicines, and for gumming labels, 
envelopes, stamps, etc., is formed when dry starch is heated to a 
temperature of about 150 C. It is soluble in water, and has no 
action upon Fehling's solution. It gives a red colour with 
iodine. 

The manufacture of starch. The starch which is used 
for other than edible purposes is chiefly manufactured from 
wheat and rice, although potatoes are largely used in France and 
Germany, and maize in the United States. The grain and 
potatoes are ground up by machinery, and a constant stream of 
water washes away the starch as a milky fluid. This is allowed 
to settle, and the starch, after being treated with weak alkali to 
remove various impurities, is washed with water and finally 
dried. 

Starch a carbohydrate. Starch has the following 
composition : 

Carbon 72 

Hydrogen 10 

Oxygen . 80 

162 

Organic bodies, such as starch, which consist of carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen, and contain the last two elements in the 
proportion in which they occur in water (i part of hydrogen 
to 8 parts of oxygen by weight) are called carbohydrates. 
Many other carbohydrates, as well as starch, are of great 
importance as foods. 

Cellulose is a carbohydrate which occurs in ail plants. 
Cellulose and starch consist of the same elements united in the 
same proportions. Cotton-wool and the best filter-paper are 
almost pure cellulose. Wood is chiefly composed of cellulose, 
but it contains other compounds as well. Some of these are 
left as ash or mineral matter when the wood is burnt. 

SUMMARY. 

Wheat flour contains about 12 per cent, of gluten. Most of what 
remains is starch. The gluten may be separated from the starch by 
kneading dough contained in a muslin bug in water. 



222 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. xvi 



Gluten, when freshly prepared, is tenacious and elastic. When dried, 
it becomes hard and brittle. 

Gluten is a proteid, and is a valuable food. 

Starch is chiefly formed in the leaves of plants, but is stored in other 
parts. It consists of very small grains, which vary in size and shape 
according to the plant from which the starch is obtained. 

Starch is insoluble in cold water, but swells up with boiling water, 
the grains bursting and their contents dissolving largely to form starch 
paste. 

Starch paste is unable to diffuse through moist animal membranes. 
Starch may be changed into sugar : 
i. By boiling with dilute acids, 
ii. By the action of the diastase of plants, 
iii. By the action of the saliva and pancreatic juice of animals. 
A sugar solution passes easily through moist animal membranes. 
Starch is a carbohydrate, and is a valuable food. It is the chief 
ingredient of flour, meal, rice, arrowroot, tapioca, sago, potatoes, etc. 
Starch is cooked before being eaten in order to burst the grains and 
make it soluble. 

Starch is used for stiffening linen and for various manufacturing 
purposes. 

Dextrin, or British gum, is formed when dry starch is heated to 
150 C. It is soluble in water. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XVI. 

1. What two substances constitute the food materials in flour ? State 
the difference in their composition, and describe a process by which 
they may be separated. (1893.) 

2. Dilute solution of iodine is added to a thin mucilage of starch, 
the liquid is then heated, and afterwards allowed to cool. Describe 
exactly what you would observe. (1898.) 

3. From what sources is starch obtained ? Describe the physical 
characters of starch, and the action of cold and hot water upon it. 
Describe also the action of hydrochloric acid and malt extract upon 
starch. (1897.) 

4 What is arrowroot ? Explain its value as an article of food. 
(1896.) 

5. Describe the effects of heat upon gluten. What is the value of 
gluten as a food ? 

6. What is the action of saliva upon starch ? What changes must 
starch undergo before it can be used by the body as a food ? 

7. What is dextrin ? How may it be obtained from starch ? 

8. What is meant by the term carbohydrate ? 



CHAPTER XVII 



THE SUGARS 

VARIETIES OF SUGAR 

222. The properties of cane sugar. Sugar is crystalline. Examine 
a lump of loaf sugar. This is the most familiar form of cane sugar. It 
is composed of a large number of small colourless crystals. The crystals 
scatter the light in all directions and the lump of sugar is thereforr 
white. Ordinary table-salt and snow 

which are also composed of small 
colourless crystals are white for the 
same reason. 

Taste. Place a small piece of the 
sugar on the tongue and observe its 
sweet taste. The fact that the sugar 
has a distinct taste shows that it is 
soluble in the saliva, as it is only after 
substances are dissolved that their taste 
can be distinguished. 

Solubility. Find out to what extent 
cane sugar is soluble in cold water by 
putting a weighed quantity into a dish 
and adding water in small quantities 
at a time from a burette (Fig. 135) ; 
stir continuously. About 20 grams 
is a convenient quantity of sugar to 
take. When all the sugar has dissolved, 
notice how much water you have 

added. Remembering (p. 30) that one cubic centimetre of water weighs 
one gram, 1 it will be found that cane sugar is soluble in about half its 
weight of cold water. 

Much more sugar can be dissolved in hot water than in cold. 

Sugar is neutral. Test the solution with red and blue litmus 
papers. There is no change in colour. Sugar is therefore neutral. 

223. Preparation of sugar candy. Make about a teacupful of a hot 

1 See note as to temperature on p. 31. 




FIG. 



146. How to make sugar 
candy. 



224 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



concentrated solution of cane sugar ; across the vessel containing the 
solution place a match or a penholder so as to suspend a piece of thin 
string in the solution, as shown in Fig. 146. Put the vessel aside for 
some hours. The sugar crystallises upon the string. 

224. The effects of heat upon cane sugar. Put a lump of sugar 
into a porcelain crucible and heat it by means of a small Bunsen flame 
(Fig. 87). At a temperature of about 160 C., or lower if a small 
quantity of water is present the sugar melts to a clear liquid. Take 
away the flame, and allow the crucible to cool. 

The sugar solidifies to a transparent brittle mass in which no 
crystals can be distinguished. In this condition it is known as barley 
sugar. 

Take this out of the crucible, and break a piece off and taste it. 

Put back into the crucible what is left, and continue the heating. 
At a temperature of from 210 C. to 220 C. the sugar becomes dark- 
brown in colour, and is then known as caramel or burnt sugar. 

Take out a little of this caramel and dissolve it in water. Preserve 
the dark solution for Expt. 226. 

225. The presence of carbon in sugar. (a) Again heat the crucible 
and notice that the caramel blackens, catches fire, and swells up to 
form charcoal (carbon). On continued heating, this burns completely 
away, combining with the oxygen of the air to form carbon dioxide gas. 

(b) Put about a teaspoonful of a strong solution of sugar into a large 
beaker, and add an equal volume of strong sulphuric acid. Stir with a 
glass rod. The mixture turns black and froths up greatly, giving off 
much steam and sulphurous fumes. 

The black spongy mass consists of charcoal or carbon. 

226. How to remove the colour from burnt sugar. To the 
solution of burnt sugar made in Expt. 224, add a teaspoonful of 
animal charcoal. Stir for some time, until the charcoal is thoroughly 
mixed with the liquid, and then filter through filter-paper in a funnel 
(Fig. S3). 

The action of the charcoal has made the liquid, which runs through 
the filter, either colourless, or at least very much paler in colour than 
the caramel solution which was taken. 

227. The behaviour of cane sugar with Fehling's solution. To 
about a teaspoonful of Fehling's solution in a test-tube, add a crystal 
of cane sugar, and warm as in Expt. 215. 

The Fehling's solution remains blue, no red precipitate being pro- 
duced with cane sugar. 

228. The properties of glucose. Examine a specimen of commercial 
glucose. It is a thick, colourless syrup, which mixes with water in 
all proportions. 

Taste a small quantity. It is sweet, but not nearly so sweet as cane 
sugar. 

229. The behaviour of glucose with Fehling's solution. Heat a 
little glucose with Fehling's solution. The blue colour of the solution 
disappears almost at once, and the liquid becomes turbid with a red 
precipitate. 

We have already seen (Expt. 2 1 6) that glucose can be prepared 



XVII 



THE SUGARS 



225 



from starch by heating the latter substance with dilute sulphuric 
acid. 

230. The properties of grape sugar. Obtain a quantity of 
" granulated grape sugar." It consists of crystals, and looks very 
much like ordinary granulated cane sugar. Like it, grape sugar is 
soluble in water, though less freely. 

Taste a small crystal of each, and notice that grape sugar is less sweet 
than cane sugar. 

231. The behaviour of grape sugar with Fehling's solution. Add 
a small crystal of grape sugar to about a teaspoonful of Fehling's 
solution in a test-tube, and warm. A red precipitate is obtained. 

232. Grape sugar is present in honey. Put a little honey into 
the mouth, and compare its sweetness with that of cane sugar and 
grape sugar respectively. 

Also notice that the honey 
contains solid particles 
which crush easilybetween 
the teeth. Separate the 
solid particles from the 
syrupy part of the honey 
by stirring up some honey 
in a dish or beaker with 
spirit, and pouring off the 
spirit. Small crystals are 
left. Test the crystals with 
Fehling's solution in the 
usual way. A red preci- 
pitate is produced. 

233 The inversion of 
cane sugar. Dissolve in 
a teacup ful of water as 
much sugar as will lie on 
a shilling. We know from 
Expt. 227 that this solu- 
tion will have no action 
upon Fehling's solution 
warmed with it. Put the 
sugar solution into a flask, 
and add to it about a 




Fig. 147. Cane sus;ar is "inverted" or changed 
into glucose by prolonged heating with an 
aoid. 



dozen drops of strong hydrochloric acid. Place the flask in boiling 
water, as shown in Fig. 147, and keep the water boiling for about half 
an hour. At the end of this time put the contents of the flask into a 
dish, and add sodium carbonate in small quantities at a time until the 
liquid is just neutral, that is, until a drop taken out on the end of a 
glass rod, after stirring, just fails to redden blue litmus paper, and yet 
does not turn red litmus paper blue. Test a little of this neutral solution 
with Fehling's solution. A red precipitate is produced. 

During the experiment the cane sugar has been " inverted," that is, 
changed into glucose. Glucose which has been prepared by the 
inversion of cane sugar is called invert sugar. 

EXP. HYG. Q 



226 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



Cane sugar. Cane sugar is in common use in all civilised 
countries for sweetening food. It derives its name from the 
plant known as the sugar cane (Fig. 148) from which it was 
first obtained. The knowledge of this plant was first brought 
to Europe from Syria by the Crusaders. Before that time honey 
was universally used for sweetening food, but the sweet juice of 

the sugar cane had a flavour 
which rapidly gained favour 
among those who were able 
to afford the new luxury. 

Soon after the beginning 
of the fifteenth century, it 
became usual to evaporate 
the juice of the sugar cane in 
order to obtain the solid 
sugar ; and a hundred years 
later manufacturers intro- 
duced a process of refining, 
by which the appearance and 
quality of the sugar were 
greatly improved. 

Until the middle of the 
eighteenth century all the 
cane sugar used was obtained 
from the sugar cane, which 
was cultivated chiefly in 
Central America and the 
West Indies. In 1747, how- 
ever, Marggraf discovered 
that cane sugar occurs also 
in beetroot (Fig. 149), and 
since that time the prepara- 
tion of sugar from beetroot has increased enormously. At the 
present time some four million tons of sugar are manufactured 
annually in Europe from beetroot. Moreover, improved methods 
of cultivation have largely increased the amount of sugar in 
beetroots, so that 100 Ibs. of sugar are now obtained from 
750 Ibs. of beetroot. 
The manufacture of sugar. In the modern methods for 




FIG. 148. The sugar cane. 



XVII 



THE SUGARS 



227 



the extraction of sugar, the beetroots are first cleaned and then 
cut into slices, and the sugar dissolved out by a continuous 
stream of warm water. When the sugar cane is used and one- 
third of the world's supply of sugar is still obtained from cane 
the canes are either crushed between rollers to squeeze out tfce 
juice, or are cut and broken into small pieces, which are treated 
with warm water to dissolve out the sugar. Lime is added to 
the strong solution of sugar, and the mixture heated almost to 
boiling, when most of the impurities separate as a scum upon 
the surface. The clear liquid beneath 
is separated from the scum, and sent 
into another tank, where carbon di- 
oxide gas is forced into it. This com- 
bines with the lime which is in solution, 
forming a precipitate of chalk (p. 
157), which settles to the bottom, 
carrying with it almost all the remain- 
ing impurities. 

When the juice is clear, it is run off 
and passed through animal charcoal. 
The charcoal to a very large extent 
retains the colouring matter, and the 
liquid which flows away is concen- 
trated by evaporation. As a high 
temperature would prevent the sugar 
from afterwards crystallising properly, 
the evaporation is carried out in what 
are known as vacuum pans. The 
reduced pressure enables the evapora- 
tion to take place at a much lower 
temperature than would be necessary in open pans. 

When the liquid is sufficiently concentrated, it is allowed to 
cool, and is then run into conical moulds. The sugar separates 
in the form of a mass of crystals, which, after being drained and 
dried, forms loaf sugar. 

" Soft sugar " is obtained from the less concentrated solutions. 

The liquor which remains is known as molasses. It still 
contains a large amount of sugar (about 50 per cent.), and it is 
only recently that it has been found possible to separate this 

Q 2 




FIG. 149. Beetroot. 



228 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



The molasses from beet-sugar has an objectionable flavour, and is 
never used for table purposes. 

Cane sugar occurs not only in the sugar cane and in beet- 
roots, but also in the Java palm, the sugar maple, carrot, turnip, 
and madder roots, coffee, various nuts, flowers, honey, etc. 

When pure, cane sugar forms colourless crystals. It has a 
very characteristic sweet taste, and is easily soluble in water. 
Cold water dissolves about twice its own weight of sugar, and 
hot water dissolves a still greater proportion. 

Sugar candy. When cane sugar is allowed to crystallise 
slowly upon threads from a strong solution, sugar candy is 

obtained. In this form the appear- 
ance of the sugar crystals can be 
well observed (Fig. 150). 

Barley sugar. Cane sugar 
melts, upon heating, at a tempera- 
ture of about 160 C., or, if water 
is present, at a lower temperature. 
If this melted sugar is cast into 
moulds, a transparent solid known 
as barley sugar is formed. 

Caramel. -Upon heating to 
210" C., the sugar darkens in 
colour, and is converted into a 
dark brown substance known as 
caramel or burnt sugar. A solu- 
tion of caramel is much used for 
colouring sauces, etc. It is, for 
example, added to artificial vinegar 
to give it the brown colour which 
appears to be regarded as a sign 
of " strength " in such liquids. 
Burnt sugar has a very character- 
istic odour. 

When cane sugar is still more 
strongly heated, it becomes black, 

catches fire, and much of its carbon separates as a very pure 
form of charcoal. On continued ignition in an open vessel 
it burns completely away. 
The composition of cane sugar. Cane sugar consists 




FIG. 150. Crystals of sugar 
candy. 



xvii THE SUGARS 229 

of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen united in the following pro- 
portions : 

Carbon 72 

Hydrogen . . . n 

Oxygen 88 

171 

We have already learnt (p. 221) to apply the name carbo- 
hydrates to bodies which, like starch and cane sugar, consist of 
carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen : the last two elements being pre- 
sent in the proportion (i part of hydrogen to 8 parts of oxygen 
by weight) in which they occur in water. 

When carbohydrates burn, their carbon combines with oxygen 
from the air to form carbon dioxide gas, and their hydrogen 
combines with oxygen to form water. 

The saccharoses. The composition of cane sugar, or 
saccharose, just given, is also that of some other sugars. Of 
these the commonest are milk sugar, or lactose, and maltose. 

Lactose occurs in milk. It is prepared by evaporating the 
liquid (whey) which is left when milk is curdled by means of 
rennet. The lactose is allowed to crystallise on strings or 
splinters of wood. It is hard and granular, and only slightly 
sweet. 

Maltose is the sugar which is formed when diastase is allowed 
to act upon starch (p. 217). 

The sugars which have the same composition as cane sugar 
are collectively known as the saccharoses. 

The inversion of cane sugar. A solution of cane sugar 
undergoes a remarkable charge when a few drops of hydro- 
chloric acid are added to it and the mixture is kept for half an 
hour at the temperature of boiling water. Before the experi- 
ment a few drops of the solution have no action upon Fehling's 
solution (p. 214) when warmed ; but after heating with hydro- 
chloric acid, the solution very readily produces a red precipitate 
when it is warmed with Fehling's solution. 

The explanation of this difference in behaviour lies in the 
fact that the cane sugar has been changed by the treatment 
into a form of sugar commonly called glucose. The change is 



230 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

known as " inversion," and the glucose so produced is known 
as " invert sugar." 

Glucose or grape sugar. Glucose or grape sugar 
occurs naturally in the nectar of flowers (honey) and in sweet 
fruits. It may be seen in raisins, for example, as small yellow 
grains. As cane sugar is found in unripe fruits, it seems likely 
that grape sugar is produced during the ripening of fruits by a 
change of the nature of inversion. 

Crystals of grape sugar may easily be obtained from honey 
by washing away its more fluid parts with spirit. 

Crystallised grape sugar resembles cane sugar in appearance, 
but it is much less sweet : the sweetness of grape sugar having 
to that of cane sugar about the proportion of 2 to 5. 

Glucose is prepared artificially by boiling starch with dilute 
sulphuric acid. After the excess of acid has been removed by 
adding chalk and filtering off the calcium sulphate which is 
produced, the solution of glucose is concentrated by evapora- 
tion. 

If the evaporation is only carried to the extent necessary to 
produce a thick syrup, the product is known commercially as 
glucose. It is used in brewing and in the finishing of cloth, for 
the preparation of jam, table-syrups, etc., and for other purposes. 

When glucose is still further concentrated, it forms white 
crystals. 

A very characteristic test for glucose or grape sugar lies in its 
behaviour with Fehling's solution. The presence of a very 
small quantity of this form of sugar causes the solution, on 
warming, to become turbid and deposit a red precipitate. As 
cane sugar does not cause the separation of this precipitate 
from Fehling's solution, the amount of glucose present in a 
mixture of the two forms of sugar may be determined by 
collecting and weighing the precipitate. 

The different forms of sugar have a very remarkable action 
on light of a particular kind (" polarised " light). By taking 
advantage of this property, it is possible to find the strengths of 
solutions of sugar with less trouble than by using Fehling's 
solution. An instrument called a polarimeter is used for this 
purpose. 

The glucoses. What is generally known as "glucose" really 
consists of a strong solution of a mixture of different sugars, 



xvii THE SUGARS 231 



most of which, however, have the following composi- 
tion : 

Carbon 72 

Hydrogen 12 

Oxygen 96 

1 80 

This should be compared with the composition of cane sugar, 
given on p. 229. 

The compounds having this composition (which, like all sugars, 
are carbohydrates) are classified together as the glucoses; 
just as the compounds of the cane sugar type are collectively 
known as the saccharoses. The sugars thus fall naturally into 
these two groups. 

Sugars as foods. By themselves the sugars are incapable 
of supporting life ; but, as soluble and easily digested carbo- 
hydrates, they are nevertheless of very great importance as 
food-stuffs. This question will be more fully considered in a 
later chapter ; but we may here call attention to the use of 
sugar not only as a food in the strict sense of the word, but as 
a sweetening agent, which increases the attractiveness of other 
foods, and thus assists digestion. 

We are, perhaps, somewhat inclined to under-estimate the 
influence of emotional conditions upon digestion and health. 
From this point of view alone, the value of sugar is very 
high. 

Saccharine. It is convenient to mention here a complex 
organic compound called saccharine. This is not in any sense 
a sugar (nor has it any value as a real food), but belongs to a 
quite different class of compounds. It is remarkable in pos- 
sessing 300 times the sweetening power of cane sugar, so that 
it is used in very small quantities at a time. Its great import- 
ance, from a dietetic point of view, lies in the fact that, owing 
to its composition, it may be used by patients suffering 
from diseases notably diabetes in which carbohydrates are 
distinctly injurious. The discovery of saccharine, therefore, 
allows such patients to enjoy sweetened dishes from which 
they would otherwise be debarred. 



232 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. xvn 



SUMMARY. 

Cane sugar is a white crystalline substance, which is very soluble in 
water, and has a sweet taste. It is chiefly obtained from beetroot and 
from the sugar cane. By melting and re-cooling, it is converted into a 
non-crystalline form called barley stigar. 

When boiled for a long time with a little acid, cane sugar is con- 
verted into "glucose." Glucose so formed is called invert sugar. 
Crystallised glucose is called grape sugar. 

Grape sugar is only as sweet as cane sugar. It occurs naturally 
in sweet fruits, honey, etc. 

The sugars are carbohydrates. They are not only soluble, but also 
pass readily through moist animal membranes, and are hence very 
valuable foods. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XVII. 

1. Describe the properties of cane sugar. What is the effect of 
heat upon cane-sugar ? 

2. Describe how you would proceed to make " sugar candy." What 
is the difference between "sugar candy" and "barley sugar"? 
(1898.) 

3. How would you demonstrate the presence of carbon in sugar ? 

4. In what plants does cane sugar occur in nature ? By what pro- 
cesses is it prepared ? 

5. How does grape sugar occur in nature ? How does it differ 
from cane sugar ? 

6. How can grape sugar be made from (a) starch, (t>) cane sugar ? 

7. What are the physical and chemical characteristics of carbo- 
hydrates? (1898, A.) 

8. What advantages as a food has sugar over starch ? 

9. What compounds are formed when sugar is burnt in air ? 



CHAPTER XVIII 
ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

__ THE PROPERTIES OF ALCOHOL 

234. Rectified spirit. For these observations of the properties of 
klcohol, rectified spirits of wine may be conveniently employed. This 
{consists of a mixture of alcohol and water, in the proportion of 84 parts 
j'of alcohol to 1 6 parts of water. 

Colour and mobility. Hold the bottle up to the light, and notice 
that the liquid is colourless. It flows more readily, when the bottle 
is slightly moved, than water would. It is, therefore, said to be more 
mobile than water. 

Smell and taste. The smell of alcohol is very strong and charac- 
teristic, and is readily recognised. Place a few drops on the tongue. 
The spirit has a burning taste. 

Solubility in water. Add about a teaspoonful of spirit to a cupful 
of water. The spirit does not form a separate layer, as oil would, but 
dissolves completely. 

Mix equal quantities of spirit and water in a dish, and notice that in 
this case also a clear liquid is obtained, in which the alcohol and water 
cannot be distinguished from each other. The mixture is distinctly 
warm. 

Alcohol and water are soluble in each other in all proportions, heat 
being liberated during the process of solution. 

Netitrality. By means of a glass rod place a drop of spirit on red 
and blue litmus papers. There is no change of colour. Alcohol is 
therefore neutral. 

Volatility. Pour a few drops of spirit on the palm of the hand, and 
rub it with the finger. A sensation of cold, due to the rapid evapora- 
tion of the spirit, is felt. 

Put about a teaspoonful of spirit into a test-tube, dip a thermometer 
into it, and place the test-tube in hot water. Notice that the spirit 
begins to boil at a temperature considerably below that of boiling water. 
Caution ! Be careful not to set the spirit on fire. 

Inflammability. Put a teaspoonful of spirit into an evaporating 
basin, and apply a light. The spirit catches fire, and burns with a pale 
blue flame. Put a piece of white porcelain into the flame, and notice 



234 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



that there is no deposit of soot, such as would be given by a candle or 
match flame (p. 179). 

The spirit burns away without leaving any residue whatever. 

235. Carbon and hydrogen present in alcohol. Set fire to a few drops 
of spirit in the cup of a deflagrating spoon, and lower the spoon at once 
into a clean glass jar (Fig. 90). Notice the "dew" which forms upon 
the sides of the jar. When the flame has gone out, remove the spoon, 
pour a little lime-water into the jar, and shake up. The lime-water 
becomes milky, owing to the presence of carbon dioxide (p. 163). The 
carbon dioxide is formed during the burning of the spirit, by the 
combination of its carbon with the oxygen of the air, and the water of 
the " dew " which dims the sides of the jar is formed by the 
oxidation of its hydrogen. 

236. The solvent power of alcohol. (a) Put a teaspoonful of castor 
oil into a dish, and add five or six times its volume of spirit. The oil 




FIG. 151. When a warm solution of sugar is fermented by yeast, 
alcohol and carbon dioxide are formed. 



dissolves completely in the spirit, forming a perfectly uniform liquid. 
Use water instead of spirit, and notice that the oil remains separate 
as a layer floating on the water. 

(6) Try whether resin and sugar dissolve in spirit. Compare the solu- 
bility of these solids in spirit with their behaviour with water. 

237. The specific gravity of mixtures of alcohol and water. By 
the method explained on p. 32 find the density, or specific gravity, of 
spirits of wine. It is about o - 84. [What is the weight of a litre of a 
liquid having this specific gravity ?] 

Find also the specific gravity of a mixture of (a) about two parts of 
spirit to one of water, (b) about one part of spirit to two of water. 
The specific gravity increases with the proportion of water present. 

238. The formation of alcohol from glucose or grape sugar. (a) 
Dissolve about half an ounce of grape sugar in a quart of water. Put 
the solution into a large flask, fitted up with a cork and delivery tube 
as shown in Fig. 151, and add a little brewer's yeast. Keep the flask 
in a warm place for some hours. The mixture begins to froth, and 



xvin ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 235 



seems to boil owing to the large quantity of gas which is given off. 
When the air has been expelled from the apparatus, some of the gas 
may be collected in a test-tube over the pneumatic trough, as little 
water as possible being used. 

When the tube is full of gas, remove it and test the gas. It will be 
found to extinguish a lighted taper placed in it, and to turn lime-water 
milky. The gas given off has no smell, and is therefore carbon dioxide. 

(b) Notice also that the liquid in the flask has become very turbid 
during the experiment, the quantity of yeast having increased. 

(<") Connect the flask with a condenser (Fig. 61), and distil over a bout 
one-third of the contents. Notice the smell of the liquid which distils 
over. It is not so pleasant as the smell of spirits of wine, but it is 
nevertheless distinctly alcoholic. 

289. The yeast plant. Take a little speck of the kind of yeast used 
in Expt. 238, and mix it with a drop of water on a microscope-slide. 
Cover the drop with a cover-glass, and examine it with the low and 
high powers of the microscope. Notice the oval bodies of which the 
yeast is composed (Fig. 153). Each of these oval bodies is a living 
plant, capable when placed in a dilute solution of sugar of growing 
and multiplying, and changing some of the sugar into alcohol and carbon 
dioxide gas. 

240. Wild yeast. Make about a cupful of a dilute solution of grape 
sugar, and set it aside for a day or two, leaving it freely exposed to 
the air. Then put it in a warm place, and notice that it soon begins to 
" work." 

The " working," or fermentation, of the liquid is due to yeasts which 
have fallen into it in the form of dust. These small plants are very 
widely distributed in the air, and readily gain access to food, etc., which 
is left uncovered. 

Yeast plants which occur in dust are called wild yeasts, to distin- 
guish them from species which are specially cultivated for their useful 
properties. 

241. Alcohol in beer. Pour a quart of beer backwards and forwards 
for several times from one vessel to another. This causes the escape of 
much of the carbon dioxide gas which is dissolved in the beer, and 
lessens the tendency of the liquid to froth up when heated. Put the 
beer into a large flask, and distil off about half of it. Notice the smell 
of the liquid which collects in the receiver. It is a mixture of alcohol 
and water. To remove the water from the liquid, add a handful of 
quicklime. Cork the flask and shake. After allowing it to stand for 
some hours, distil again ; this time heat the liquid by means of boil- 
ing water contained in a vessel surrounding the distilling-flask. The 
quicklime retains most of the water, so that the liquid which now distils 
over is fairly strong alcohol. 

Test it by taste and smell, and see if a little placed in a dish catches 
fire on the application of a light. 

Alcohol. From very early times, and in all parts of the 
world, the human race has been addicted to the use of 



236 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

fermented beverages. In spite of the great differences, in 
methods of preparation and other respects, of these various 
liquids, they all owe their attraction to one and the same 
active principle alcohol. 

Properties of alcohol. Alcohol is a neutral, colourless 
liquid, possessing a peculiar and to most people pleasant 
odour. It has a burning taste. It is soluble in all proportions 
in water, heat being liberated when the liquids are mixed. 
Taken in dilute solutions alcohol produces intoxication, but is 
poisonous when drunk pure or in strong solution. 

Alcohol is readily inflammable, burning with a pale blue 
flame which yields no soot. It is therefore a convenient fuel 




FIG. 152. Two kinds of spirit lamp. 

for heating vessels in cases where a smoky flame is undesirable, 
or where coal gas or oil cannot be obtained. Several spirit 
lamps (Fig. 152) of various forms have been devised for the 
burning of alcohol. 

Pure alcohol is considerably lighter than water, having a 
specific gravity of about o - 8. It dissolves many organic 
substances which are insoluble in water. 

The separation of alcohol and water. Alcohol boils 
at a temperature of 78'5 C. When, therefore, a mixture of 
alcohol and water is distilled, the liquid begins to boil at a 
temperature intermediate between this and 100 C., the boiling 
point of water. The first portions evaporated contain a greater 
proportion of alcohol than the last liquid distilled over, and by 
repeated distillation the strength of the liquid can be increased 
so as to obtain at last an almost complete separation of the 



xvm ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 237 

alcohol from the water. The separation is more thorough if 
in the later stages the liquid is allowed to stand over quicklime 
for some hours before being distilled. The quicklime combines 
with the water, and retains most of it, so that, upon heating, the 
liquid which is driven off and condensed is almost all alcohol. 

The composition of alcohol. Pure alcohol has the 
following percentage composition : 

Carbon 52' 17 

Oxygen 3478 

Hydrogen I3'O4 

99-99 

The presence of carbon and hydrogen in the compound may 
be readily shown by burning alcohol in a deflagrating spoon 
in a dry glass jar. During the burning of the alcohol, its 
hydrogen is oxidised to water (p. 143), and its carbon to 
carbon dioxide gas (p. 127). The water maybe seen as a slight 
dew upon the sides of the jar. The presence of the carbon 
dioxide may be shown by the milkiness produced when a little 
clear lime-water is shaken up in the jar. 

The formation of alcohol. Although chemists are 
acquainted with methods by which alcohol can be directly built 
up, as it were, from the elements of which it is composed, it is 
in practice always produced by the fermentation of one or 
other of the various sugars. 

This may be well illustrated by making a dilute solution of 
grape sugar in water, adding a little yeast, and keeping the 
mixture in a warm place. It soon begins to "work," and 
becomes frothy and turbid. Three chief results of the action 
may be readily observed : 

(a) The quantity of the yeast increases. 

(b) A gas is given off, which may be collected, tested, and 
Droved to consist of carbon dioxide. 

(c) Alcohol is formed in the liquid. 

Yeast. The cause of this remarkable change of sugar into 
alcohol and carbon dioxide is found in the yeast which is 
added. When examined by means of the microscope, yeast is 
seen to be composed of a mass of tiny oval bodies called cells 
(Fig. 153). Each of these is a living plant. The yeast plant 



238 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 




Fir,. 



153. Cells of yeast. (Highly 
magnified.) 



commonly reproduces its kind by a process of "budding," in 
which a knob forms on the cell, increases in size, and is at last 
cut off from the parent to become a separate cell. The cells 

often remain in contact for 
some time before finally breaking 

Off. 

Ferments and the nature 
of Fermentation. When a 
sugar solution is " worked " with 
yeast, the evolution of gas is 
often so great as to give an 
appearance of boiling. The 
name fermentation was con- 
sequently applied to the changes 
taking place. The term is still 
used for all processes of a 
similar nature, even when there 
is no disengagement of gas, and 

therefore no appearance of boiling, such as occurs in alcoholic 
fermentation. 

For example, when beer and wine turn sour, and become 
converted into vinegar by the formation of acetic acid, the 
change is brought about by the activities, not of yeast, but of 
another microscopic plant the vmegar organism, shown in 
Fig. 158. Here the change is known as acetic fermentation. 

Another kind of fermentation is exemplified by the action of 
the diastase of malt-extract (p. 217) in converting starch into 
sugar. H-ere the action is not due to living cells, but to a 
complex organic compound (diastase] formed by the seed. 

As the yeast plant, the vinegar organism, and diastase bring 
about fermentation, they are called ferments. They resemble 
each other in one very important respect : they cause the 
chemical change of an amount of material which is out of all 
proportion to their own quantity. In alcoholic fermentation, for 
example, while the yeast-cells use up a small quantity of sugar 
for their own nutrition, they cause an enormously greater 
amount of sugar to be changed into alcohol. Again, the 
diastase of malt-extract does not itself appear to undergo any 
change, notwithstanding the extensive conversion of starch into 
sugar which it induces. 



xviii ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 239 

It is a curious fact that the activity of ferments stops when 
the substances they produce reach a certain degree of concen- 
tration. 

Organised and unorganised ferments. It would 
seem, from what has been said in the previous paragraph, 
that ferments are of two kinds : firstly, living cells, such as yeast 
and the vinegar organism ; and secondly, organic compounds, 
which, like diastase, are not themselves alive, but are produced 
by living plants or animals. It is usual to express this distinc- 
tion by terming ferments of the first class organised, and those 
of the second class unorganised ferments or enzymes. 

The belief is, however, gaining ground that even organised 
ferments really act by virtue of enzymes which their living cells 
produce. The evidence in favour of this view is very strong, 
but cannot be considered here. 

Beer and brewing. Barley contains about 55 per cent, of 
starch, and this starch is made use of in the process of brewing. 
The barley is first moistened, and then kept warm until it 
begins to sprout. In these early stages of growth a small 
quantity of the ferment diastase is produced. The growth of the 
grain is stopped at the proper stage by heating it in kilns a 
treatment which converts the barley into malt. The malt is 
then crushed and treated with water for about two hours at 
a temperature ?f .from 50 to 70 C. During this mashing pro- 
cess the diastase acts upon the starch ( (Fig. 142), and largely 
converts it into the variety of sugar known as maltose (p. 229). 
Hops are then added, so as to give the beer a bitter taste, and 
the liquor or wort is boiled and strained. 

After the wort has been rapidly cooled, the necessary quantity 
of yeast is added and alcoholic fermentation is allowed to take 
place. When this has proceeded far enough, the yeast is re- 
moved from the beer, and the latter is stored in casks or bottles. 
The trace of yeast which is still present is sufficient to cause a 
slow additional fermentation, so that the carbon dioxide unable 
to escape gradually accumulates in the stored beer. 

The dark colour of porter or stout is due to the use of malt 
which has been charred in the heating. 

Barley is most commonly used for beer-making, but it is 
evident that a fermented beverage of the nature of beer can be 
similarly prepared from any grain rich in starch. The Berlin 



240 KXI'Kkl.MKXTAL IIYGIKNK CHAP. 



IVeissbier is made from wheat ; and maize, millet, rye, and 
rice are also used in different parts of the world for similar 
purposes. 

It should be noticed that the process of beer-making outlined 
above consists essentially of two fermentations : (a) \htdiastatic 
fermentation, by which starch is changed into sugar, and (b~) the 
alcoholic fermentation, whereby the sugar is converted into 
alcohol and carbon dioxide. 

To save the time and trouble involved in malting and mash- 
ing, it has become a common practice with many brewers to 
use commercial glucose. This substance is manufactured by 
the action of sulphuric acid upon starch (p. 230), and unless 
purified acid is employed, the glucose is naturally liable to con- 
tamination. The disastrous effects of using for this purpose 
crude sulphuric acid, containing arsenic, were seen recently 
(July 1900 to January 1901), when a large number of persons 
were poisoned by drinking beer brewed from glucose. 

Mead) a drink which was formerly very common in Northern 
Europe, is made by fermenting a solution of honey. 

The use of Koumiss, or fermented mares' or asses' milk, is 
practically confined to Central Asia. Milk sugar, or lactose 
(p. 229), like cane sugar, is not directly fermentable ; it is, how- 
ever, changed into a fermentable form of sugar by the action 
of the lactic acid which is formed in the milk. 

Similarly, it has been found that the action of yeast upon 
cane sugar is first to invert it that is, to change it into grape 
sugar. The grape sugar thus produced then ferments, forming 
alcohol and carbon dioxide. 

Wines. Grape iuice very easily undergoes alcoholic fer- 
mentation, for it not only contains glucose or grape sugar, which 
is directly fermentable, but an alcoholic ferment occurs on the 
skins of the grapes themselves, rendering the addition of yeast 
unnecessary. The liquid which is obtained as a final result of 
the fermentation of grape juice is known as wine. 

Wines vary greatly in the amount of alcohol and other sub- 
stances they contain, in colour, and in the aroma or bouquet. 
These differences are due, not only to the kinds of grapes used, 
but also to the methods of manufacture and other circumstances. 

Spirits. The commonest spirits are brandy, rum, whisky, 
and gin. Brandy is made by distilling the spirit from certain 



XVili ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 241 

white wines. Riun is the spirit distilled from fermented 
molasses (p. 227). Brandy and rum owe their special flavours 
to certain complex compounds which distil over with the 
alcohol. Whisky is generally made by the distillation of 
fermented malt-liquors, although rye is sometimes added to 
the malt. Gin, a spirit made from malt and rye, contains 
various added flavouring substances. 

Amount of alcohol in various beverages. The 
average percentage quantity of alcohol in some of the com- 
monest liquors is shown in the following table : 

Whisky 60 per cent. 

Brandy 50 

Port 18 

Champagne 1 1 

Claret 9 

Ale 6 

Lager beer . 4 

The manufacture of alcohol. The first stages in the 
manufacture of alcohol generally consist in malting barley and 
mashing with water in the manner already described for the 
brewing of beer. After fermentation, the liquor is pumped into 
large stills, and repeatedly distilled until the required strength 
is obtained. A large quantity of spirit is now also manufactured 
from potato starch. The starch is first converted into glucose, 
and this is then fermented. 

Recognised strengths of alcohol. Special names are 
given to mixtures, in certain proportions, of alcohol and water. 
Absolute alcohol is supposed to be free from water. Rectified 
spirits of wine contains 84 per cent, of alcohol. Proof spirit 
contains 49*24 per cent, of alcohol. The term proof is derived 
from the old method which Excise-officers had of testing spirit 
by moistening gunpowder with it, and then applying a light. 
Proof spirit was the weakest mixture which would ignite the 
gunpowder when the alcohol was all burnt off. Methylated spirit 
is simply rectified spirit which has been mixed with wood spirit 
and mineral naphtha to make it undrinkable. It is sold duty- 
free, and is largely used for heating purposes and in the arts. 

The use of alcohol in the arts. Alcohol, chiefly owing 

EXP. HYG. R 



242 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. xvni 

to its great solvent power and volatility, is much used for the 
preparation of varnishes, and for tinctures, perfumes, etc. 

The value of alcohol as a food. To people in ordi- 
nary states of health, alcohol has practically no value as a food ; 
and its regular use has distinctly injurious effects upon the 
digestive and nervous systems. On the other hand, as a stimu- 
lant in cases of illness and collapse, it is often of the greatest 
value ; and, owing to the readiness with which it is oxidised 
(p. 233), may serve as a source of energy to patients who are 
too weak to digest ordinary food. 

SUMMARY. 

Alcohol is a colourless, neutral, mobile liquid, with a pleasant smell 
and a burning taste. It is composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
It is very inflammable, and burns with a smokeless flame. It dissolves 
many substances which are insoluble in water. 

Alcohol mixes with water in all proportions. It is very volatile, and 
boils at 78 '5 C. It can therefore be separated from a mixture of 
alcohol and water by repeated distillation. 

The density of pure (or "absolute ") alcohol is only that of water. 

Alcohol is the intoxicating principle in beers, wines, and spirits. It 
is always produced, together with carbon dioxide, by the fermentation 
of grape-sugar by yeast. Cane-sugar is not fermented until it has been 
first converted by the yeast into grape sugar. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XVIII. 

1. How would you obtain alcohol from beer? By which of its 
chemical and physical properties would you distinguish alcohol from 
water? (1899). 

2. By what processes may starch be rendered soluble in water ? 
What becomes of the starch of barley in making beer ? (1899.) 

3. Describe what happens when yeast is added to a solution of cane 
sugar. What is the first change ? How may alcohol be obtained from 
the product? (1899.) 

4. Describe the process of brewing, and the theory of fermentation. 
(1894.) 

5. What is a fermented drink ? Explain its general preparation and 
effects. (1897.) 

6. What is the composition of " spirits of wine" ? How would you 
show that it boils at a lowej temperature than water ? What com- 
pounds are formed when the spirit burns in air? What is "proof 
spirit," and why is it so called ? (1895.) 

j^^ Explain what is meant by the terms (i) solvent action ; (2)distilla- 
ti^ri; (3) chemical combination; (4) [neutralisation;] (5) fermentation. 

(1894.) 

8. What two ferments are especially concerned in the brewing of 
beer ; and what chemical changes do they bring about ? 



CHAPTER XIX 
A LOAF OF BREAD 

MANUFACTURE AND PROPERTIES OF BREAD 

242. Starch and gluten. Before commencing the study of this 
chapter, the student should again separate a little flour into its chief 
constituents, starch and gluten, as described in Expts. 197 and 198. 

243. How to make a loaf. Take half a pound of flour in a basin, 
and add a saltspoonful of salt. Make 02. of yeast into a thin cream 
with warm water, adding about half a teaspoonful of ordinary sugar. 
Make a hollow in the middle of the flour, put in the yeast, adding as 
much more tepid water as is sufficient to make a light dough on kneading 
the mixture. After kneading, cover the basin with a cloth, and put in a 
warm place for an hour. The dough swells or " rises " into a kind of 
sponge, which occupies at least twice its original space. Cut into 
pieces (putting one aside for Expt. 245), and make into " rolls," which 
should be placed on a greased iron plate, and again allowed to " rise" 
for at least fifteen minutes. Put the plate into a hot stove (or an air- 
oven may be made to answer) until the rolls are baked. 

244. The appearance of new bread. Allow the rolls to cool, and 
then break one across and examine it. The inside is composed of 
white spongy crumb, while the crust is hard and crisp, and darker in 
colour. 

245. Sour dough or leaven. Put aside for a few days the piece of 
dough saved from Expt. 243 until it becomes sour, and then try the 
effect of using it instead of yeast for mixing with another quantity of 
flour. Make a few rolls, and compare their taste and appearance with 
those made in the ordinary manner. 

246. The use of baking powder. Make another batch of rolls in 
the same way as before, but use about half a teaspoonful of baking 
powder instead of the yeast and sugar. Compare the resulting bread 
with that made in Expt. 243. 

247. Unleavened bread. Make cakes, using neither yeast, baking 
powder, nor sour dough (leaven), and notice that they do not "rise" 
on being kept in a warm place. Bake them, and compare their ta^te 
and appearance with those of ordinary bread. 

R 2 



244 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



248. The action of baking powder. Put a little baking powder into 
a test-tube, and add water. Notice that a gas is given off, causing 
effervescence. Test the gas by means of lime-water, as in Expt. 169. 

The lime-water turns milky, showing that the gas is carbon 
dioxide. 

In Expt. 238 it was found that carbon dioxide was also given off when 
yeast acted upon a warm dilute solution of sugar. It seems likely 
therefore that the " rising " of bread is due to the evolution of carbon 
dioxide by the yeast or baking powder, whichever is used. 

249. Bread-making from the beginning. Take a small handful of 
wheat-grains, and grind the grains as finely as possible in a mortar. 
Make the flour obtained into a dough with water, and bake in the 




FIG. 154. The primitive method of grinding corn. 

oven. Taste the bread. This is the most primitive method of making 
bread. 

250. Mineral matter in bread. Weigh a porcelain crucible, first 
empty, and then half full of bread crumbs. The difference between the 
weights is the amount of bread taken. Carefully ignite the crucible 
over the Bunsen burner (Fig. 87), until nothing is left in it but a little 
white ash. Allow the crucible to cool, and weigh again. 

From the weight of ash obtained calculate the percentage of mineral 
matter in the bread taken. 

The mineral matter of white bread amounts to about I per cent, 
is largely composed of phosphates. 



XIX 



A LOAF OF BREAD 



245 



Bread. It is universally recognised that, next to milk, our 
most generally useful food is furnished by the seeds of the 
various cereals. Fortunately, these grasses may be grown with 
little trouble, and in most parts of the world. We consequently 
find that bread, prepared from the grain of 
wheat (Fig. 155), rye, barley, oats, and other 
cereals, has formed one of the staple foods of 
mankind during the whole period of which there 
is any historical record ; and no other food has 
yet been discovered which is at the same time 
so palatable, so nutritious, and so easily ob- 
tained. There have, of course, been great im- 
provements in the methods of bread-making, 
but the principle involved is essentially the 
same, whether the grain is reduced to flour by 
a complicated milling process, or ground be- 
tween two flat stones (Fig. 154), in the manner 
described in the Bible ; or whether the final 
product is a dainty French roll, or the sodden 
" damper " which the squatter bakes in the ashes 
of his camp-fire. 

The grain is first ground to powder, and the 
coarser parts, or bran, are sifted from the fine 
flour. In bread-making, the flour is kneaded 
into a paste with water, a certain amount of 
yeast and sugar is usually added, and the dough 
is set in a warm place to " rise." Bubbles of 
carbon dioxide gas are given off by the activity 
of the yeast, and the dough becomes spongy. 
The mass is then heated to a much higher FIG. 155. Wheat. 
temperature, which kills the yeast, expands the 
bubbles of gas, and at last forms the bread, with its crisp outer 
crust, and firm, spongy interior. 

Flour. Fig. 156 is a diagram of a th^n slice taken along the 
length of a grain of wheat. The grain is oval in shape, and is 
divided by a flat plate, the scutellum, into two unequal parts. 
The upper part is filled with a substance known as endosperm ; 
while the lower portion, placed somewhat to one side of the 
grain, consists of the onbryo destined, under favourable con- 
ditions, to give rise to a new wheat plant At the upper end of 



246 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP, 



the embryo the young stem and at the lower end the young 
root are already to be distinguished, though they are still en- 
closed in protecting sheaths. The whole grain is surrounded 
by six layers (not all shown separately) which together con- 
stitute the bran. The endosperm consists of a store of food 
formed for the support of the embryo during the earlier stages 
of its growth. The plate the scutellum which lies between 
the embryo and its food, acts as a 
nurse to the tiny plant absorbing the 
endosperm, changing it into easily 
digested substances, and passing it 
on, little by little, to the embryo as it 
is required. 

Man also, however, has discovered 
the nutritive properties of the endo- 
sperm, and unceremoniously putting 
aside the prior claims of the embryo, 
he appropriates this store of food to 
his own use, converting it into flour. 

The food-stuffs present in 
flour. The value of the endosperm 
or, as we may now call it, the flour 
of the wheat lies in the fact that 
it consists almost wholly of two 
very important food-stuffs starch 
and gluten. A little sugar is also 

present. The starch and gluten may easily be separated from 
flour by mixing some of the latter with a little water, so as to 
make a stiff dough. This is tied up in an old handkerchief, and 
kneaded gently between the fingers in a basin of water. The 
starch comes through the meshes of the cloth, and turns the water 
milky. The kneading is continued until no further milkiness 
is produced, and the handkerchief is opened and the soft, india- 
rubbery mass of wet gluten which is left taken out. The starch 
settles to the bottom of the basin, and may be seen as a white 
deposit when the water is poured off. 

The use of yeast in bread-making. Yeast is added 
to the dough in bread-making, because when the tiny plants of 
which the yeast consists (Fig. 153) are supplied with a solution 
of sugar, and kept warm, they multiply rapidly, forming alcohol, 




Yourv* 

Root 



FIG. 156. Diagram of a grain 
of wheat cut through from 
end to end. The endosperm is 
made into flour. 







xix A LOAF OF BREAD 247 

and giving off carbon dioxide gas. The elastic gluten which is 
present is blown out by this gas into little pockets, rendering 
the dough light and porous. During the baking process the 
gas is expanded by the heat, but is retained by the tough gluten. 
The digestibility of bread depends largely upon its light and 
spongy texture, so that 
the mere elasticity of 
gluten is of great use, 
quite apart from its value 
as a food. 

Men have been ac- 
quainted with the proper- 
ties of yeast from very 
early times. The ancient 
Greeks are known to 
have cultivated it, and its 
cells have been detected 
by the microscope in some 
bread more than four 

thousand years Old, found FIG. 157. A loaf of bread cut open to show the 

r i spongy nature of the interior. The large 

in an Egyptian tomb. holes show that the yeast was not uniformly 

The Egyptians were in mixed with the dough, 
the habit of leaving over 

a little dough or " leaven " from each baking, and they used 
this in subsequent bakings the yeast which remained in the 
bit of dough being sufficient to leaven the new batch. Bread- 
making, as carried out by a woman of ancient Egypt, is 
described in an interesting manner in Maspero's " Dawn of 
Civilisation" : l 

" She spread some handfuls of grain upon an oblong slab of 
stone, slightly hollowed on its upper surface, and proceeded to 
crush them with a smaller stone like a painter's muller, which 
she moistened from time to time. . . . The flour, made to 
undergo several grindings in this rustic mortar, was coarse, 
uneven, mixed with bran or whole grains which had escaped the 
pestle, and contaminated with dust and abraded particles of 
the stone. She kneaded it with a little water, blended with it, 
as a sort of yeast, a piece of stale dough of the day before, and 
made from the mass round cakes about half an inch thick, and 
1 London : S.P.C.K., 1897. 



248 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



some four inches in diameter, which she placed upon a flat flint, 
covering them with hot ashes." 

Yeast substitutes. The action of yeast is not always to 
be depended upon, owing to occasional contamination. For 
this and other reasons, many attempts have been made to find 
substitutes for yeast in bread-making. The best-known 
examples of such substitutes are the various baking-powders. 
They usually consist of bicarbonate of soda and cream of 
tartar (p. 262), mixed with some harmless but inert substance 
such as starch. When the mixture is moistened with water, the 
cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda act upon each other 
with the liberation of carbon dioxide gas. The dough made 
with baking-powder rises properly enough, but the bread is 
somewhat insipid in taste. 

The "aerated bread," which is supplied at the "A. B. C." 
depots in London, is made to rise by the use, in kneading, of 
water which has been saturated under pressure (as soda-water 
has) with carbon dioxide gas. The kneading process is carried 
out in special machines. 

Unleavened bread. Bread which has not been raised by 
yeast, or by any other gas-yielding substance, is said to be 
unleavened. Well-known examples are the Passover bread 
of the Jews (used to commemorate their hurried departure 
from Egypt, there being no time to put any leaven into their 
bread), ship's biscuit, and the innumerable fancy biscuits or 
" crackers." 

Changes caused by baking. During the baking of the 
bread, as has been said, the living cells of the yeast are killed 
by the heat, and the little bubbles of carbon dioxide gas which 
fill the dough are expanded ; also the gluten is stiffened or 
coagulated, so that the bread retains its spongy texture after 
cooling. The outside becomes hard and dark in colour, partly 
owing to the drying and partly to the formation of a stiff gum 
(Expt. 219) in this part. 

A most important change also takes place in the starch of the 
bread's interior. If uncooked wheaten flour is examined by the 
microscope, its starch is seen to consist of tiny round granules 
(Fig. 138). When boiling water is added to starch, its granules 
burst, and to a large extent dissolve in the water to form the 
\vell-kno\vn starch paste. Something similar takes place when 



xix A LOAF OF BREAD 249 

bread is baked. The heat bursts the granules of the starch, 
and changes it into a condition in which it is easily attacked by 
the digestive juices of the body. 

The value of bread as food. The chief ingredients 
which make up flour, and the changes which take place in 
them when flour is made into bread having been briefly con- 
sidered, the reason why bread is so vitally important can now 
be understood. An average healthy man requires every day 
about three-quarters of an ounce of nitrogen. This element 
occurs abundantly in the air ; but unfortunately the human 
body is incapable of making use of nitrogen unless it is sup- 
plied in the form of certain substances known as proteids, 
which can only be manufactured by living plants and animals. 
Some of the best-known proteids are albumin or white of egg, 
the casein of milk and cheese, and the myosin which is an 
important constituent of lean meat. Last of all, gluten, which 
is present to the extent of about 12 per cent, in good flour, is 
also a proteid, and is moreover easily digested. A man's daily 
allowance of nitrogen may consequently be obtained (p ; 209) 
by the consumption of just over three pounds of bread. 

Another very important element of food is carbon, and a 
man must be supplied every day with about 9^ ounces of this 
element in a digestible form if he is to keep up his strength. 
Carbon is present, not only in gluten (p. 209), but in starch 
(p. 221), sugar (pp. 229 and 231), and fats, all of which bodies 
occur in bread. In fact, good bread contains about 29 per 
cent, of digestible carbon, so that our " average man " will 
obtain his 9^ ounces with ease from 33 ounces of bread, and 
will have an ample supply of carbon if he consume the three 
pounds of bread required to give, in addition, all the nitrogen 
he needs. 

White bread also contains about I per cent, of the mineral 
substances necessary for building up the bones and teeth. 

The innermost of the bran-layers of the wheat-grain (marked 
a in Fig. 156) is rich in nitrogenous material not gluten 
and all the bran -layers are well provided with mineral matter. 
With the object of making use of these substances as food, 
numerous attempts have been made to introduce flours which 
shall contain the bran as well as the endosperm. The value of 
a food, however, depends so largely upon its digestibility, that 



250 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

it is doubtful whether any real advantage will be obtained by 
including the bran, unless it can be ground much finer than it 
is at present. 

The use of other cereals as food. The grains of 
other cereals have, practically, the same structure as the wheat- 
grain, the bulk of the seed being composed of endosperm ; but 
in no other case is the flour obtained from it so rich in easily 
digested nutritive ingredients. In cold countries rye is more 
easily cultivated than wheat, and it ranks next to wheat in 
importance. Oats and barley are not so often used for bread- 
making. They contain valuable food-stuffs, but are also less 
digestible. Maize, or Indian corn, rice, millet, and buckwheat 
are other examples of cereals which are used for food. 

It is clear that in the endosperm of the grain of the wheat 
we have an almost ideal food. The ease with which this 
invaluable grass can be cultivated in all temperate climates 
makes it accessible to nearly every nation of the earth and 
accounts for its universal employment. Well does bread made 
from wheat merit the title which grateful humanity has bestowed 
upon it" the staff of life." 



SUMMARY. 

Flour is the endosperm of the grains of wheat, rye, barley, oats, 
and other cereals. It consists chiefly of starch and gluten. 

In bread-making, the flour is kneaded into a dough with water, a 
certain amount of yeast and sugar is usually added, and the dough is 
set in a warm place to "rise." The alcoholic fermentation of the 
sugar liberates carbon dioxide gas, which makes the dough spongy. 
The mass is then heated to a much higher temperature, which kills the 
yeast, expands the gas, hardens the gluten, bursts the starch-grains, 
and at last forms the bread, with a crisp outer crust and a firm spongy 
interior. 

Yeast substitutes usually consist of bicarbonate of soda and cream 
of tartar. Such a mixture, called baking-powder, yields carbon dioxide 
gas on being moistened with water. Aerated bread is made to rise by 
the use, ir. kneading, of water saturated under pressure with carbon 
dioxide gas. 

Unleavened bread is made without the use of either yeast or yeast 
substitutes. 

Bread as food. An average man's daily food must contain enough 
proteid matter to yield \ oz. of nitrogen, and sufficient proteids, carbo- 
hydrates, or fats to yield 9^ oz. of carbon. 



xix A LOAF OF BREAD 251 



oz. of nitrogen (in the form of proteid) is contained in just over 
3 Ibs. of bread. 

9^ oz. of digestible carbon is contained in 33 oz. of bread. 

Bread contains about I per cent, of the mineral matter necessary 
for building up the bones and teeth. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XIX. 

1. Describe what you have observed when wheat flour is heated 
in an oven, and then more strongly heated over a gas flame, and 
finally burnt on platinum foil. What is the appearance and nature of 
the ash which remains? (1898.) 

2. Describe the general structure of a grain of wheat. Which part 
is converted into flour ? 

3. Describe the process of bread-making. 

4. What chemical and other changes do the constituents, of dough 
undergo when it is.baked ? 

5. What do you mean by the term yeast substitute! Give 
examples. 

6. What is unleavened bread ? Do you consider it as digestible as 
an ordinary loaf? If not, why not ? 

7. To what constituents does bread owe its value as a food ? 
Briefly describe them. 

8. What daily amount of bread do you consider would be sufficient 
for an average man, if bread were the only food he could get ? Give 
reasons for your answer. 

9. How would you determine the amount of mineral matter present 
in bread ? What is the use of this mineral matter as a food ? 

10. What is leaven, and how does it ast ? 



CHAPTER XX 
ACETIC ACID 

VINEGAR AND ITS PROPERTIES 

251. Appearance and acidity of vinegar. (a) Obtain a pint of 
vinegar and examine its properties. 

Vinegar is generally of a brown colour, but " white vinegar " is colour- 
less, like water. Notice the characteristic smell. 

(b) By means of a glass rod place a drop of vinegar on (i) blue litmus 
paper ; (2) red litmus paper. 

The blue litmus paper is reddened ; the colour of the red paper is 
not changed. Vinegar has acid properties. 

252. Effect of boiling upon the acidity of vinegar. Place about 
half a teacupful of vinegar in a porcelain dish, and heat it to gentle 
boiling by means of the Bunsen flame. Notice the smell of the vapour, 
and from time to time take out a drop of the vinegar and test it with 
blue litmus paper to see if it is still acid. When the liquid has nearly 
all boiled away, turn the flame low, and at the moment when the dish is 
dry takeaway the burner. Notice that a very small residue is left at 'the 
bottom of the dish. When the dish is cool, add about half a teaspoonful 
of distilled water, and stir with a clean glass rod. Place a drop of this 
liquid on blue litmus paper to see if it is acid. 

Does the acidity of the vinegar reside in the dissolved solid 
matter, or is it due to something which boils away with the water? 

253. Neutralisation of acidity of vinegar. Wash out the dish and 
place in it about the same quantity of vinegar as before. To this add 
sodium carbonate in small pinches at a time, stirring well at each addition, 
until the mixture just fails to turn blue litmus red. Notice the 
effervescence which takes place. Try not to overshoot the mark by 
adding too much sodium carbonate. With care it is possible to obtain 
a solution which neither turns blue litmus red nor red litmus blue ; that 
is, which is neither acid nor alkaline, but neutral. Carefully evaporate 
the neutral solution to dryness, testing at intervals, as before, to see 
if the liquid remains neutral during the evaporation. 

Notice that a much larger residue is left in the dish than in Expt. 252. 
The residue in this case consists almost wholly of a salt, known to 
chemists as sodium acetate. Put the dish aside for Expt. 25 :'>. 



CH. xx ACETIC ACID 253 

254. Action between acids and carbonates. (a) In Expt. 253 the 
addition of sodium carbonate to vinegar was seen to cause effervescence, 
due to the escape of gas. Put as much sodium carbonate as will lie on 
a threepenny piece into a test-tube, and add vinegar. Test the escaping 
gas with lime-water in the manner of Expt. 169. 

The lime-water becomes milky, showing that the gas is carbon 
dioxide. 

(b} Repeat the experiment, using dilute sulphuric acid instead of 
vinegar. Carbon dioxide is again liberated from the sodium carbonate. 

Vinegar has plainly the properties of an acid. It is really dilute 
acetic acid. 

255. Action between vinegar and lime-water. In another dish 
neutralise another quantity of vinegar (about as much as was used in 
Expts. 252 and 253) with lime-water, noticing by means of litmus paper, 
as before, when the liquid becomes neutral, and taking care not to 
overshoot the mark. Observe that in this case there is no escape of 
carbon dioxide gas, because lime is not a carbonate. Evaporate the 
neutral solution to dryness. The residue which is left is a salt known 
as acetate of lime or calcitim acetate. 

The production of the two salts obtained from vinegar, by the action 
of sodium carbonate and lime-water respectively, may be conveniently 
represented as follows : 

Acetic Sodium . ,, Sodium Carbon Waf . pr 

acid + carbonate yuld acetate + dioxide + Water " 

Acetic acid + Lime yield Calcium acetate + Water. 

256. Action between sulphuric acid and acetates. Take the dishes 
containing the sodium and calcium acetates, and, after noticing that 
each is free from smell, add a few drops of sulphuric acid to each and 
warm gently. Smell cautiously ; the sharp, pungent odour of acetic 
acid is at once apparent. 

The change may be represented thus : 

Sodium acetate + Sulphuric acid yield Acetic acid + Sodium sulphate. 
Calcium acetate + Sulphuric acid yield Acetic acid + Calcium sulphate. 

257. Properties of acetic acid. Examine the properties of a sample 
of commercial acetic acid, and show, by a repetition of Expts. 253 and 
255, that it behaves like very strong vinegar ; a far larger quantity of 
sodium carbonate is required to neutralise half a cupful than was 
the case with the same volume of vinegar. Evaporate the solution to 
dryness, and preserve the residue of sodium acetate for Expt. 260. 

258. Action between acetic acid and iron. Put some iron-filings 
into a little acetic acid in a test-tube, and notice that a gas is given off 
as the iron slowly dissolves in the acid. The gas is hydrogen. 

259. Preparation of sugar of lead. Dissolve litharge, a compound 
of oxygen and lead, in acetic acid in a dish, adding litharge so long as 
any dissolves. Put the dish on one side, and notice that crystals soon 



254 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



'appear. These consist of lead acetate, or "sugar of lead," a very 
poisonous substance. 

The action between the acid and the litharge may be thus repre- 
sented : 

Lead oxide + Acetic qdA yield Lead acetate + Water. 
(Litharge) (Sugar of lead) 

260. Preparation of acetic acid. (a) Break up about half of the 
sodium acetate obtained in Expt. 257 into small pieces, and place them 
in a small retort fitted up as shown in Fig. 60. Add sufficient strong 
sulphuric acid to cover the salt, and allow the mixture to stand for 
some time. Then warm. The liquid (the "distillate") which collects 
in the receiver is strong acetic acid. Test a small portion by means of 
litmus paper, iron-filings, sodium carbonate, etc., and show that its 
properties correspond to those already seen to be possessed by acetic 
acid. Hold the receiver under the tap, if necessary, to cool the dis- 
tillate to 17 C. or lower, and notice that the acetic acid then forms a 
solid mass of colourless crystals. When strong enough to behave in 
this manner, the acid is known as glacial acetic acid. 

(6) Repeat the experiment, using hydrochloric acid instead of sulphuric 
acid. 

In this case we have : 

Sodium acetate + Hydrochloric acid yield Sodium chloride + Acetic 

(Common salt) acid. 

261. Acetic acid formed by alcohol and oxygen. Put into a watch- 
glass as much " platinum-black " as will lie on a threepenny piece, and 
form a paste by mixing it with one or two drops of pure alcohol. Put 
a small piece of blue litmus paper into the paste, and then cover the 
watch-glass with an inverted beaker, placing a .split match under the 
edge to allow air to enter. After about twenty-four hours examine 
the litmus paper to see if it has changed in colour. The red colour 
observed shows that an acid has been formed. Warm the watch-glass 
gently, and notice the odour of acetic acid. The alcohol has combined 
with some of the oxygen of the air to form acetic acid the platinum- 
black acting as an oxygen-carrier. 

262. Density of vinegar and acetic acid. Find the density or 
specific gravity of (a) vinegar, and (6) commercial acetic acid, by the 
method explained on p. 32. 

Acetic acid. Acetic acid is produced on a large scale 
by strongly heating wood in closed iron retorts. Water and 
other liquids, tar and various gases, are given off, charcoal 
being left in the retort when the action is finished. The gases 
pass on, and are sometimes used for illuminating purposes ; 
but the watery liquids and tarry matters are collected in cooled 
receivers. The brown, watery layer contains, among other 
substances, a large quantity of acetic acid, sometimes called 



xx ACETIC ACID 255 

pyroligneous add. The acid is separated from the tar, and 
neutralised by lime, forming a solution of calcium acetate. This 
solution is distilled in order that the valuable "wood spirit," 
etc., present may be separated from it. It is then evaporated 
to dryness, and the dry residue of calcium acetate distilled 
with strong hydrochloric acid in copper retorts. The liquid 
which collects in the receiver is the crude acetic acid of 
commerce. It is purified by redistillation. 

The strongest acetic acid solidifies between 16 C. and 17 C. 
to a crystalline mass. Such acid is known as glacial acetic 
acid. Pure acetic acid has a density or specific gravity of i '05 5 
(water = i). It boils at ii8'5 C., and mixes in all proportions 
with water and alcohol. Acetic acid has all the properties 
characteristic of acids, blistering the skin when strong, and 
uniting with bases to form salts and water. 

Acetates. An example of the action of acetic acid with one 
base (lime) is seen in its manufacture, when the pyroligneous 
acid is neutralised with lime. By its action on another base 
(litharge, an oxide of lead) the very important salt lead acetate 
(sugar of lead) is produced. This is extensively employed in 
calico-printing and in various dyeing processes. Acetic acid 
dissolves certain metals, hydrogen being liberated at the same 
time. This solvent property is utilised commercially, by dis- 
solving iron turnings and nails in pyroligneous acid to obtain 
" black-liquor? another substance used in dyeing and printing. 

When acetic acid acts upon a carbonate, carbon dioxide gas 
is liberated, and an acetate is formed. Thus, sodium acetate, 
which is used in medicine and as a food-preservative, is 
obtained by neutralising acetic acid with sodium carbonate, as 
in Expt. 257. 

Pure acetic acid has no action on litmus, but, in the presence 
of water, acetic acid turns blue litmus red, as other acids do. 
The free acid has a characteristic sharp, pungent smell; but 
its salts, the acetates, are almost or quite odourless. 

Pure acetic acid has the following percentage composition : 

Carbon 4o'o 

Hydrogen 67 

Oxygen 53-3 

lOO'O 



256 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

The formation of acetic acid from alcohol. 

Under certain conditions alcohol may be made to unite with 
oxygen and become converted into acetic acid. This combina- 
tion can be brought about by making finely divided platinum 
(platinum-black or spongy platinum) into a paste with alcohol, 
and leaving the paste in contact with air for some hours. The 
platinum acts by bringing the alcohol and oxygen into very 
close contact, without which the oxidation of alcohol into acetic 
acid could not take place ; but the platinum-black does not 
itself undergo any change. 

It has been seen (p. 234) that, when alcohol is completely 
oxidised by burning, it forms carbon dioxide and water. 

Vinegar. The commonest form of acetic acid is the well- 
known liquid vinegar. Genuine vinegar not only contains from 
C to 12 per cent, of acetic acid, but also very small quantities of 
other substances, which give it its pleasant smell and flavour 
not possessed by artificial vinegar. The rest is water. 
Acetous fermentation. When beer, or weak wine, is ex- 
posed to the air, it changes into 
vinegar by the combination of 
the alcohol with oxygen from the 
air to form acetic acid. The union 
is brought about by the activities 
of very minute living plants, called 
bacteria. As the growth and multi- 
plication of these particular bacteria 
give rise to vinegar, they are called 
the vinegar organisms. Their cells 
are shown highly magnified in 
Fig. 158. The action of the vine- 
gar organism in converting alcohol 

FIG. 158. Cells of the bacterium of into acetic acid is called acetous 
organism*") Highly magnified, fermentation, and the plant itself, 
like the yeast plant, is regarded as 
a ferment. 

It should be noticed that acetic acid may be built up from 
starch by a series of fermentations : 

(a) Starch is converted by diastatic fermentation into sugar, 
(b} Sugar is converted by alcoholic fermentation into alcohol 
and carbon dioxide. 




XX ACETIC ACID 257 

(c) Alcohol is converted by acetous fermentation into acetic 
acid. 

The manufacture of vinegar. The cells of the vinegar 
organism, like those of wild yeasts (p. 235) are continually float- 
ing about as dust in the air, and so readily gain access to any 
exposed liquid. 

In weak solutions of alcohol, containing also certain nitro- 
genous substances and mineral salts which they require for 
food they multiply so rapidly that one or two cells soon become 
many thousands, all engaged actively in converting alcohol into 
acetic acid. 

The old method of forming vinegar consists in exposing the 
wine in large vats. The lids of the vats are perforated, so that 
the liquid is in free communication with the air. 

In the quick vinegar process, the alcoholic liquid is kept con- 
tinually trickling over beech-twigs or shavings. In this way it 
is broken up into small drops ; and as a very large surface is 
thus exposed to the air, the conversion into vinegar is complete 
in a comparatively short time. 

Artificial vinegar. Diluted acetic acid coloured with 
caramel or burnt sugar is not vinegar, although it is often 
fraudulently sold as such. Genuine vinegar has been prepared by 
the acetous fermentation of malt-liquors or wine ; and its value 
as a condiment is largely due to the presence of very small 
quantities of "extractive matters," partly derived from these, 
and partly produced during fermentation. 

Uses of vinegar. Vinegar has been used from very early 
times for seasoning food, making sauces, etc. It is said to have 
been used by the Roman soldiers to mix with water as a bever- 
age, and the practice is still followed by the peasantry in some 
parts of Southern Europe. It is now most commonly used for 
pickling vegetables cucumbers, onions, gherkins, walnuts, 
cauliflowers, etc. 

SUMMARY. 

Acetic acid is a colourless liquid with a sharp characteristic odour. 

It is composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. It mixes with water 

in all proportions. Strong acetic acid, which crystallises at about 
17 C., is said to be glacial. 

Acetic acid forms salts called acetates, which are almost or quite 
odourless. 

EXP. HYG. s 



258 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP, xx 

Acetic acid may be produced by the oxidation of alcohol. This occurs 
naturally, by the activities of a bacterium, the vinegar organism, when 
malt liquors or weak wines are exposed to the air. The change is 
known as acetous fermentation, and the liquid produced is vinegar. 

Artificial vinegar, consisting of diluted acetic acid coloured with 
burnt sugar, is deficient in traces of substances which give genuine 
vinegar its attractive flavour. 

Vinegar is used for pickling vegetables, making sauces, etc. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XX. 

1. What agents are concerned in the production of vinegar from 
weak wine or beer ? By what characters is the acid of vinegar distin- 
guished, and why does the smell of vinegar disappear when much 
sodium carbonate is added to the liquid ? (i$96.) 

2. How may alcohol be obtained from grape sugar and from beer ? 
How may it be converted into acetic acid ? ( 1 894. ) 

3. What acid is formed when weak wine is left exposed to the air ? 
Explain the nature of the process which goes on. (1899.) 

4. By what fermentative changes may acetic acid be derived from 
starch ? What is a ferment ? 

5. Give a short account of the manufacture of acetic acid. 

6. State some of the uses of vinegar. 

7. Explain how acetic acid may be obtained from wood. 




CHAPTER XXI 
TARTARIC ACID 

PROPERTIES AND USES OF TARTARIC ACID 

263. Properties of tartaric acid. (a) Examine a specimen of tartaric 
acid. It consists of colourless crystals which, when well formed, are 
seen to have the shape of prisms. Taste a small crystal. It is intensely 
sour, as most acids are. Rub a crystal, wetted with water, upon blue 
litmus paper. The paper turns red. Notice that tartaric acid differs 
from acetic acid in having no smell. 

(b) Solubility. Weigh a large crystal, and then powder it in a mortar. 
Now take a graduated jar, and, after filling it up to the loo-cubic -centi- 
metre mark, pour water from it into the mortar in small quantities at 
a time. Stir well, so that as little water as possible may be used for 
dissolving the tartaric acid. When the acid has completely dissolved, 
notice from the graduations on the jar how many cubic centimetres you 
have used. 

Remembering that a cubic centimetre of water weighs one gram, 1 
notice that tartaric acid is soluble in less than its own weight of water. 

264. Action between tartaric acid and sodium carbonate. (a] 
Dilute the concentrated solution of tartaric acid with about three times 
as much water, and then add sodium carbonate in small pinches at a 
time until the liquid is neutral that is, until it fails to change the 
colour of litmus paper. Notice the effervescence which takes place. 
Evaporate the neutral solution to dryness. 

The residue is a salt called sodium tarlrate. 

(b) Pour tartaric acid solution upon sodium carbonate in a test-tube, 
and, by means of lime-water in another test-tube, test the gas which is 
given off, in the manner of Expt. 169. The lime-water turns milky : 
the gas being carbon dioxide. 

The action between the tartaric acid and sodium carbonate may be 
represented as follows : 

Tartaric , Sodium . ,, Sodium , Carbon . X)r . 
acid + carbonate ymd tartrate + dioxide + ^ ater ' 

1 See note as to temperature on p. 31. 

S .7 



26o EXPERIMENTAL HVGIENE CHAP. 



265. Presence of carbon in tartaric acid. Place a few crystals of 
tartaric acid in a porcelain crucible, and heat by means of the Bunsen 
burner (Fig- 87). The crystals melt, and the acid becomes first 
yellowish, then brown, and finally black, swelling up to form a spongy 
mass, and giving off an odour much resembling that of burnt sugar. 

The black spongy mass is largely composed of charcoal or carbon. 
Continue the heating, and observe that at last the mass burns com- 
pletely away. 

266. Cream of tartar. Examine a specimen of cream of tartar. 
Weigh out about a teaspoonful of the crystals, and find how much water 
is just sufficient to dissolve them, as in Expt. 263. 

A much larger quantity of water is required than is necessary to dis- 
solve the same weight of tartaric acid. 

Test the solution of cream of tartar with litmus paper. It has acid 
properties, turning blue litmus red. 

Dilute the solution to about twice its volume, and divide this diluted 
solution into two parts. To one part slowly add rectified spirits of wine 
(not methylated spirit), and stir. Before long the solution becomes 
cloudy, owing to the separation of cream of tartar in the solid state. 

Cream of tartar is therefore less soluble in a mixture of alcohol and 
water than in water alone. 

267. Other tartrates. To the other part of the solution add 
potassium carbonate in small quantities at a time until the liquid is 
just neutral. Evaporate the neutral solution to dryness on a water-bath. 

The residue is potassium tartrate. 

Cream of tartar may be regarded as tartaric acid which has been only 
half neutralised by the addition of potassium carbonate. It is therefore 
known chemically as potassium bitartrate. When the neutralisation is 
completed by the addition of a further quantity of potassium carbonate, 
potassium tartrate is obtained. The action which takes place may be 
represented as follows : 

Potassium bitartrate Potassium . , , Potassium Carbon w 
(Cream of tartar) + carbonate yte lartrate + dioxide + 

268. Preparation of Rochelle salt. Dissolve as much cream of 
lartar as possible in about half a cupful of boiling water in a porcelain 
dish. Keep the solution just boiling, by means of a small Bunsen 
flame, and gradually add sodium carbonate, stirring with a glass rod, 
until the liquid no longer turns blue litmus paper red. Evaporate the 
solution to dryness. 

The residue is potassium sodium tartrate commonly known as 
Rochelle salt. The neutralisation of the potassium bitartrate has in this 
case been completed by sodium carbonate. Hence we may represent 
what has taken place in the following manner : 

Potassium ,. Potassium ~ , 

bitartrate + So ^ ul " yield sodium tartrate + ^ arb " + Water. 
(Cream of tartar) carbonate (Rochelle salt) 

269. Argol. Examine a specimen of Argol. This is impure cream 
oi tartar. It is generally of a reddish colour. Make a hot strong 



xxi TARTARIC ACID 261 

solution, and lay it aside to cool. Crystals separate out, and most of 
the colouring matter remains behind in the "mother liquor." Drain the 
crystals ; and if they are still coloured, again dissolve them in as small 
a quantity of hot water as possible. Allow the solution to crystallise. 
This time the crystals are almost or quite colourless, and consist of 
cream of tartar or almost pure potassium bitartrate. 

Cream of tartar is prepared in this way on the large scale by the 
recrystallisation of argol. 

270. Seidlitz powders. Make a Seidlitz powder according to the 
following prescription from the British Pharmacopeia : 

(a) Weigh out 7 77 grams of Rochelle salt (sodium potassium tartrate), 
and 2 '59 grams of sodium bicarbonate. Both salts should be dry and 
powdered. Mix the two, and wrap in blue paper. This mixture is 
known as the alkaline powder, because sodium bicarbonate is alkaline. 

(b] Weigh out 2^46 grams of tartaric acid, also in dry powder, and 
wrap in white paper. This is the acid powder. 

The alkaline powder (in blue paper) is dissolved in nearly half a pint 
of cold or warm water, and the acid powder (in white paper) is then 
added. The draught is drunk whilst the mixture is still effervescing. 

Tartaric acid. Tartaric acid occurs in many fruits, 
especially when they are ripe. It is, for example, the chief 
acid in ripe grapes. The berries of the mountain ash contain 
considerable quantities of it, and it is found also in pine-apples, 
tamarinds, mulberries, cucumbers, sorrel, and other plants. All 
the tartaric acid of commerce is, however, derived from grape- 
juice. 

Tartaric acid forms colourless prismatic crystals, which have 
a very sour taste. Like other acids, it turns blue litmus red, and 
neutralises bases and carbonates, giving rise to a series of salts 
known as tartrates. When only half neutralised, it forms acid 
salts called bitartrates, the best known of which is potassium 
bitartrate or cream of tartar. Tartaric acid melts at about 
170 C., and on being further heated swells up into a black, 
spongy mass, with the separation of carbon, and giving a 
distinct odour of "burnt sugar" at the same time. On pro- 
longed heating it burn? completely away. 

Salts of tartaric acid. Tartrates and bitartrates behave 
somewhat similarly when heated charring, and giving an 
odour of burnt sugar but they do not burn away completely ; 
they leave instead a residue of mineral matter. The commonest 
salt of tartaric acid is potassium bitartrate or cream of tartar. 
This separates, as a crust, in an impure form known as Argol 
when grape wines are stored in casks ; for the salt becomes less 



262 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

soluble as the amount of alcohol in the wine increases by 
" secondary fermentation." The argol derived from the wine 
of red grapes is dark-red in colour ; from white grapes it is 
white. Purer forms of potassium bitartrate are obtained from 
argol by recrystallisation from hot water. When only partially 
purified it is known as "tartar" ; but when practically all the 
impurities have been removed by repeated crystallisation, it is 
called "cream of tartar" or "cream." All the tartaric acid 
which comes into the market is derived from the argol which 
is deposited from wine. 

Cream of tartar^ or potassium bitartrate, is not a neutral 
salt, but has the power, like acids, of reddening blue litmus, 
combining with bases, and giving rise to effervescence with 
carbonates. It is, therefore, often called an acid tartrate. With 
potassium carbonate it produces neutral potassium tartrate. 
When it is neutralised by sodium carbonate it forms sodium 
potassium tartrate, or Rochelle salt^ which is obtained in large 
transparent crystals. 

Uses of tartaric acid and tartrates. Both potassium 
bitartrate (cream of tartar) and sodium potassium tartrate 
(Rochelle salt) have valuable medicinal properties. They are 
used in the preparation of effervescing drinks. Rochelle salt 
is the active constituent of nearly all the so-called Seidlitz 
powders : the sodium bicarbonate and tartaric acid being 
added to produce effervescence and make the draught more 
palatable. Baking-powder (p. 248) generally consists of a 
mixture of cream of tartar and sodium bicarbonate. 

Another compound of tartaric acid is the well-known tartar 
emetic. This contains antimony, and is very poisonous. It is 
used in medicine as an emetic, and is also employed in calico- 
printing. 

Composition of tartaric acid. Tartaric acid, like acetic 
acid, consists of the elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, but 
they are combined in different proportions. Its percentage 
composition is 

Carbon 32 

Hydrogen 4 

Oxygen 64 

100 



xxi TARTARIC ACID 263 

The presence of carbon in tartaric acid is readily shown by 
the separation of charcoal when the acid is heated. When tar- 
taric acid is burnt, its carbon forms carbon dioxide, and its 
hydrogen water, by union with oxygen. 

SUMMARY. 

Tartaric acid is found in many ripe fruits, especially grapes. 

It is composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. When pure, it 
forms colourless crystals which are soluble in less than their own weight 
of water. It has no smell. 

The salts of tartaric acid are called tartrates. Some, such as 
Rochelle salt (sodium potassium tartrate) are neutral. Others, which 
are called bitartrates, have acid properties and decompose carbonates 
with effervescence. Cream of tartar (potassium bitartrate) is the com- 
monest of these. It is obtained by recrystallisation from argol (impure 
potassium bitartrate). As the compound is less soluble in dilute 
alcohol than in water, argol separates as a crust in stored wines, as the 
proportion of alcohol in them increases. 

Tartaric acid, cream of tartar and Rochelle salt have valuable 
medicinal qualities ; advantage is taken of the effervescence caused 
by the first two with sodium bicarbonate in the preparation of 
effervescing drinks, Seidlitz powders, baking-powders, etc. 

Tartar emetic contains antimony, and is poisonous. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XXI. 

1. Give an account of the properties of tartaric acid. In what 
respects does it differ from acetic acid ? 

2. What is cream of tartar? How is it prepared? What is its 
action upon sodium bicarbonate ? 

3. How do the properties of tartrates differ from those of bitartrates ? 
Mention an example of each class. 

4. Describe what is seen when (a) tartaric acid, (b) cream of tartar, 
is strongly heated in a crucible. 

5. How would you make a Seidlitz powder ? What takes place when 
the powder is dissolved in water ? 



CHAPTER XXII 

FATS AND OILS. SOAP AND GLYCERINE 
CLEANSING PROCESSES AND THE USE OF SOAP 

271. How to make caustic soda. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of 
washing-soda in water. Add an ounce of slaked lime. Stir well, boil for 
some time, and then allow to settle. The liquid consists of a solution 
of caustic soda ; the sediment is chalk, or carbonate of lime. Pour off 
the caustic soda solution into a bottle, cork it, and label it. 

272. To remove grease-stains. Smear a piece of cloth with a bit of 
suet. Remove the grease by sponging the cloth with diluted caustic 
soda solution. Try also the effect of washing-soda on the cloth. 

273. To remove ink-stains. Make a dilute solution of bleaching- 
powder, and dip into it a part of an old handkerchief which has 
bt-en stained with ink. Wash at once with clean water. If the stain is 
not removed, dip the cloth again into the dilute solution of bleaching- 
powder, rinsing with clean water immediately afterwards. 

274. Removal of fruit-stains. Stain an old handkerchief with fruit 
juice or jam, and dry it. Dip the stained part into dilute bleaching, 
powder solution, rinsing immediately with water, until the slain is 
removed. Fresh fruit-stains may often be completely removed by hot 
water alone. 

275. Effects of strong caustic soda upon cloth. Put a bit of calico 
or linen into strong caustic soda solution. Notice that the fibres of the 
cloth are rotted. 

276. Effects of strong bleaching-powder solution upon cloth. 
Treat a bit of cloth with strong solution of bleaching-powder. In this 
case also the fibres become rotten. 

If caustic soda or bleaching-powder be used for removing stains 
from cloth, it should be in very dilute solution. 

277. The properties of suet. Examine a piece of ordinary besf o. 
mutton suet. When quite fresh, it is white or slightly creamy in colour, 
and has a pleasant, characteristic smell. It is slightly brittle, but is 
difficult to break into small pieces owing to the thin membrane or skin 
which occurs in it. This is called connective tissue. 

278. Suet lighter than water, Throw a small piece of suet into 
wat'.-r. It (louts. 



CH. xxn FATS AND OILS. SOAP AND GLYCERINE 265 



279. The action of heat on suet. Put a. small piece of suet into 
a porcelain crucible, and heat by means of the Bunsen flame. It 
melts, and begins to crackle and smoke. Notice the peculiar smell. 
At last the fat catches fire, and burns with a very luminous flame. It 
burns completely away on prolonged heating. 

280. How to make soap from suet. Hang a small beakerful of 
freshly-shredded suet in boiling water until the fat is melted. To 
25 c.c. of the melted fat add 75 c.c. of caustic soda solution containing 
40 grams of caustic soda to the litre. Heat the mixture in a beaker 
surrounded by boiling water. Stir constantly until the mixture 
becomes pasty. Dissolve in about 100 c.c. of warm water and add 
100 c.c. of saturated solution of common salt. Skim off the granular 
soap which separates ; add cold water and stir vigorously. Skim 
again ; wash in more cold water ; skim, drain, and heat the wet 
granular soap in a dish over a Bunsen burner flame to drive off as 
much water as possible without burning the soap. 

The proportions (one volume of melted fat to three volumes of 
caustic soda solution of the strength mentioned) are roughly those 
required theoretically. The quality of the soap obtained is improved 
by a more prolonged heating of the fat and caustic soda solution 
together. To increase the amount of soap obtained, the granular soap 
should be strained through muslin, and, during the washing process, 
salt solution should be added. 

Such a soap, like ordinary hard soap, is chiefly composed of sodium 
stearaie. 

281. Stearic acid. To a solution of ordinary soap in water add 
dilute hydrochloric acid. The liquid curdles, and white masses of 
stearic acid rise to the top. If the vessel is warmed, the stearic acid 
runs together to form an oily layer, which upon cooling again may be 
easily separated, rinsed with water, and examined. 

282. Oleic acid. Examine a sample of oleic acid, often commercially 
though incorrectly called " olein." It is an oily liquid, somewhat reddish 
in colour, with a peculiar smell. Pour a few drops into a basin of 
water, and notice that they do not dissolve. Test a little of the oil with 
litmus paper. There is no change of colour. Stir the oil vigorously 
with water, and test the water with litmus paper. There is no change 
of colour. 

Oleic acid differs from such acids as sulphuric, hydrochloric, nitric, 
and acetic acids in not turning blue litmus red. 

283. Make a soap from oleic acid. Put about a teaspoonful of oleic 
acid into a dry porcelain dish, and warm gently. Then add sodium car- 
bonate in small pinches at a time, and stir with a glass rod. Notice 
that effervescence takes place, as would be the case with other acids and 
sodium carbonate (p. 253). 

As more and more sodium carbonate is added, the mixture becomes 
thicker, until at last it is quite pasty, and on cooling becomes stiff. 

This stiff mass is a soap, known as sodium oleate. 

Rub a little of the sodium oleate soap with water on the hands. It 
forms a lather in the usual way. 

284. The separation of oleic acid from sodium oleate. Make a 



266 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

solution in water of the soap prepared from oleic acid and sodium car- 
bonate, and add dilute hydrochloric acid. Free oleic acid separates and 
rises to the top as an oily layer. 

285. Soap and hard water. Dissolve a piece of good hard soap, the 
size of a walnut, in a pint of warm distilled water. The solution is 
almost clear. Dissolve the same amount of soap in a similar quantity 
of "hard" water (London water answers very well), and notice that a 
scum collects on the surface of the solution. This scum consists chiefly 
of an insoluble soap of lime, calcium stearate. 

286. Properties of glycerine. It was stated (Expt. 280) that, when 
suet and soda are boiled together, glycerine is set free. Examine the 
properties of glycerine. It is a thick, colourless liquid, which flows 
only slowly when the vessel containing it is tilted. 

(a) Solubility in water and netitrality. Pour a few drops into a 
basin of water, and stir. The glycerine dissolves very freely in the 
water. 

Dip red and blue litmus papers into the solution. There is no change 
of colour. Glycerine is neutral. 

(b) Smell and taste. Glycerine has no smell. Taste a drop. It is 
intensely sweet. 

(c) Solvent powers. Stir up glycerine in a dish with a small 
quantity of powdered litharge. The litharge dissolves. Stir up litharge 
with water, and notice that it does not dissolve. 

Glycerine is one of the most powerful solvents known ; it dissolves 
various substances which are insoluble in water. 

(d) Effects of heat. Put a few drops of glycerine into a porcelain 
crucible, and heat by the Bunsen flame. The liquid boils, and gives off 
irritating white fumes with a peculiar odour somewhat resembling that 
of burning fat. The fumes soon catch fire, and burn with a bluish flame 
as the glycerine boils away. 

Fats and oils. Fats and oils occur widely distributed 
through both the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Many of 
these, especially those derived from plants, are liquid at the 
ordinary temperature, and are known as oils. Others, chiefly of 
animal origin, which are solid at the ordinary temperature, are 
usually distinguished a.sfats. This is a purely artificial classifi- 
cation, however, as it depends merely upon differences in the 
melting temperatures, fats being readily liquefied by heat, and 
oils being solidified upon cooling. 

These bodies are either colourless or pale yellow when pure. 
Their densities or specific gravities range from o'88 to 0-97, and 
they are all practically insoluble in water. They are soluble in 
ether, benzene, etc. (hence the common use of the latter liquid for 
removing grease from gloves, etc.), and are more or less soluble 
in alcohol. 



xxn FATS AND OILS. SOAP AND GLYCERIN 267 

Composition of beef or mutton fat. When suet or 
tallow is heated with water under a pressure from 8 to 12 times 
as great as that commonly exerted by the atmosphere (p. 97), 
or is distilled with superheated steam, it is split up into its con- 
stituents. These are (i) an organic base, called glycerine, and 
(2) the fatty acids, stearic add, palmitic acid, and oleic acids. It 
has been seen that the result of the combination of an acid and 
a base is a salt. Beef or mutton fat is therefore to be regarded 
as a mixture of the three following organic salts : 

(a) Stearate of glycerine, called stearin. 

() Palmitate of glycerine, called palmitin, 

(c) Oleate of glycerine, called olein. 

The quantity of palmitin and olein in beef or mutton fat is only 
small. In lard (the fat of pigs) a much larger proportion of 
olein (a liquid oil) is present, which accounts for the greater 
softness of lard. 

Soap-making. Fats and oils are readily decomposed by 
alkalis, such as soda, potash, and lime. When, for example, 
suet or tallow, which consists chiefly of stearin (stearate of 
glycerine), is boiled with caustic soda, the soda takes the place of 
the glycerine, and forms stearate of soda or hard soap the 
glycerine being set free. The change may be represented thus : 



yiel* and CLYC ER1NE . 

(Stearin) (Soap) 

When the boiling is finished, a semi-solid mass of partly-formed 
soap, glycerine, and water remains. Salt is then added, and the 
soap rises to the top as a curd. The liquid below consists of 
glycerine, salt-solution, and impurities. This liquid is drawn 
off, and the crude soap is boiled with more soda and water until 
the action is complete. After being further treated to separate 
impurities, the soap is run off into cooling frames. 

Soft soaps wee made by boiling various oils with caustic potash. 
They contain a large proportion of water, together with all the 
glycerine belonging to the original oils. 

Soap as a cleansing agent. Soap has been used as a 
cleansing agent since the second century. When agitated with 
water it forms a " lather," and loosens the particles of dirt by 
surrounding them with thin films of soan. 



26S EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHA?. 

Cleansing agents in general. The general principles 
underlying cleansing operations or the removal of dirt may be 
conveniently considered here. Dry dust may usually be detached 
mechanically, by beating, shaking, brushing, etc. Dirt which is 
soluble in water may be more or less completely removed by 
washing in water. Hot water acts better than cold for this pur- 
pose, as it has usually greater solvent powers. Soap, as 
mentioned above, assists the process by loosening the dirt. 
Grease may be converted into a soluble soap andi removed by 
washing with washing-soda or caustic soda. Many colouring 
matters fruit-stains, ink> etc. are bleached, or converted into 
colourless substances, by the action of bleachmg-powder. 

In removing grease or stains from fabrics by means of caustic 
soda or bleaching-powder, care should be taken to use dilute 
solutions, to avoid injuring the fabric. 

The chemical nature of fats and soaps. The changes 
involved in soap-making were not understood until the 
beginning of the nineteenth century, when the French chemist 
Chevreul showed that the fats are compounds of fatty acids 
with glycerine. Any compound formed by replacing the 
glycerine of a fat or oil by an inorganic base may be called a 
soap. 

The unpleasant scum which is formed when we wash in hard 
water (p. 155) is a lime soap. It consists chiefly of stearate of 
lime. 

Diachylon, the paste which is spread on linen to form sticking- 
plaster, is a lead soap (lead oleate). It is made by heating 
olive oil and water with litharge (an oxide of lead). In this 
process the glycerine of olein is replaced by the litharge. 

Glycerine. Glycerine, the base of the organic salts which 
we call fats and oils, is a thick, colourless, neutral liquid with a 
very sweet taste. It is readily soluble in water, for which it has 
so great an affinity that when pure it will absorb half its weight 
of water from damp air. It is one of the most powerful solvents 
known, and will dissolve various substances oxides of lead, for 
example which are insoluble in water. At low temperatures 
glycerine becomes solid. When heated to boiling it is partially 
decomposed, and gives off inflammable vapours, among which is 
a compound very irritating to the eyes, causing a flow of tears. 
The same compound is produced when fat is burnt. 



xxn FATS AND OILS. SOAP AND GLYCERINE 269 

In Europe alone, about 25,000 tons of glycerine are annually 
converted into nitroglycerine, and afterwards into dynamite and 
other explosives. 

The acids of oils and fats. The acids which were 
originally combined with glycerine to form oils and fats may be 
separated from soaps by the addition of dilute sulphuric or 
hydrochloric acid. If, for example, dilute sulphuric acid is 
added to a solution in water of ordinary hard soap (sodium 
stearate), a white curd of stearic acid separates and rises to the 
top. This may be removed and examined. 

Stearic acid is a white fatty solid at ordinary temperatures, 
but melts to a clear oily liquid at about 70 C. It is insoluble 
in water, but dissolves readily in alcohol, ether, benzene, etc. 
When these solutions are evaporated, the acid is deposited 
again in the form of crystals. Stearic acid, combined with 
glycerine to form stearin, is the principal acid in the fat of sheep 
and oxen. 

Palmitic acid, combined with glycerine to form palmitin, is 
found in palm and olive oils, in suet, and in many other fats and 
oils. It is solid at ordinary temperatures, and melts at about 
61 C. 

Oleic acid, in combination with glycerine as olein, is the 
principal ingredient of olive oil, but also occurs largely in 
several other oils and fats. As it is liquid at ordinary 
temperatures, fats such as lard and goose-fat Avhich contain 
much olein are softer than suet, which contains only a small 
quantity of it. 

The number of fatty acids is very large, but the two of 
greatest commercial importance are stearic acid and palmitic 
acid. These are largely used, when mixed with paraffin, for 
making the so-called "stearin" candles. This mixture, on 
account of its comparatively high melting point and for other 
reasons, has been found to answer much better than tallow for 
this purpose. 

The value of fats as food.^It will be seen in Chapter 
XXV. that fats and oils are extremely valuable foods, especially 
in cold countries. It is well known that the Esquimaux 
consume large quantities of blubber the fat of whales, etc. 
for the purpose of keeping up the vital heat 



270 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



SUMMARY. 

Fats and oils are organic salts formed from the combination of 
fatty acids (stearic, palmitic, and oleic acids, for example), with the 
organic base, glycerine. They may be decomposed into fatty acids and 
glycerine by superheated steam, or by heating with water under great 
pressure. They are insoluble in water, but soluble in benzene, ether, 
etc. They are lighter than water. 

Fats and oils are valuable foods. 

A soap is formed by replacing the glycerine of a fat or oil by an 
inorganic base (caustic soda, for example). Many soaps are soluble in 
water. 

Ordinary hard soap chiefly consists of sodium stearate. The glycerine 
of stearate of glycerine (a fat) has been replaced by soda (an inorganic 
base). 

Glycerine, the base of fats and oils, is a thick, colourless, neutral 
liquid with a very sweet taste. It is a very powerful solvent. 

Stearic and palmitic acids are white, fatty solids at ordinary tempera- 
tures. Mixed with paraffin, they are used for making "stearin" 
candles. 

Oleic acid is an oily liquid at ordinary temperatures. 

The fatty acids may be separated from solutions of the soaps in which 
they occur, by adding dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid. 

Of cleansing agents, the most generally useful is water. Soap acts 
as a cleansing agent by loosening the particles of dirt. Grease may be 
converted into soap and removed by using a dilute solution of caustic 
soda or washing-soda. 

Bleaching-po-wder solution is often useful for removing stains. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XXII. 

1. What is the composition of suet, and what substances may !><. 
obtained therefrom by the action of caustic soda and of superheated 
steam respectively ? ( 1 893. ) 

2. Why may tallow be spoken of as a salt? Describe the two 
substances obtainable from it by the action of (a) water at a high 
temperature, and (6) boiling solution of caustic soda. (1899. ) 

3. How is common hard soap made? What other product is formed 
at the same time, and what becomes of it in the ordinary process of 
manufacture ? ( 1 898. ) 

4. Compare the properties of tallow and ordinary white soap, and 
point out their essential differences in composition. Describe and 
explain the action of hydrochloric acid on a solution of soap in water. 
(1895-) 



xxn FATS AND OILS. SOAP AND GLYCERINE 271 

5. A syrupy liquid having a sweet taste may be either glycerine or a 
sugar solution. What experiments would you make in order to decide 
between them ? ( 1 897. ) 

6. Name seven compounds of carbon derived from vegetable or 
animal sources ; state the source of each, and classify them into acids, 
salts, and neutral compounds. (1898.) 

7. How would you prepare a solution of caustic soda? 

8. What is the easiest method of removing grease from cooking 
utensils ? Explain what takes place during the process. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

FLESH FOODS AND FISH. METHODS OF 
COOKING 

ALBUMIN l AND ITS PEOPERTIES 

287. The properties of egg-albumin. (a) Break a fresh egg into a 
basin, and separate the " white" or albumin from the yolk. 

(b) Appearance. Examine the egg-albumin. It is colourless and, 
when quite fresh, practically without smell or taste. Rub a drop 
between the finger and thumb, and notice its great stickiness. 

(c) Alkalinity. Dip a piece of red litmus paper in the albumin. 
The paper turns blue. Egg-albumin is slightly alkaline. 

(a) Solubility in water. Put a teaspoonful of albumin into a cup 
of water and stir gently. The albumin dissolves. 

288. Effects of heat upon albumin. (a) Put about a teaspoonful of 
egg-albumin into a clean, dry test-tube. Put a thermometer into the 
tube, place the tube in a beaker of water, and heat the beaker over the 
Bunsen flame. 

The albumin remains clear until it reaches a temperature of about 58 
C. At this point a slight opalescence may be seen, and at about 60 
C. the albumin becomes solid, white, and opaque. This change is 
known as coagulation. Egg-albumin coagulates at a temperature of 
about 60 C. 

Shake out the coagulated mass of albumin into the beaker, and con- 
tinue the heating of the water. The albumin does not dissolve. 
Coagulated albumin is insoluble in water. 

(b) Put a few drops of fresh albumin into a porcelain crucible 
(Fig. 87), and heat gradually by means of the Bunsen flame, noticing 
the changes which take place in the albumin. It first coagulates, then 
blackens and smokes giving off the odour of burnt hair or feathers 
also noticed (p. 208} when gluten is burnt. If the heating is continued, 
the albumin burns almost completely away. 

289. Effects of heat on a solution of albumin. Stir up a teaspoon- 
ful of fresh egg-albumin in about half a pint of water. If the solution 
is not quite clear, filter it through filter paper in a funnel, avoiding the 
formation of froth on the surface of the solution. Place the solution 

1 Some chemists spell this word albumin instead of album/n, but the latter spelling 
is preferable. 



CH. xxin FLESH FOODS AND FISH. COOKING 273 



in a beaker, put in a thermometer, and heat over the Bunsen flame, 
supporting the beaker on wire-gauze. 

At a temperature of about 60 C. the solution becomes cloudy. 
Small particles of coagulated albumin separate as the heating is con- 
tinued, and rise to the surface as a scum. 

290. No change in weight when an egg is boiled. Weigh an egg, 
and then place it in boiling water for three minutes. Take out the 
egg, wipe it dry and weigh again. There is practically no change in 
weight. 

The coagulation of albumin is not due to the addition or loss of. 
matter. 

291. The putrefaction of albumin. Put aside what is left of the 
white of egg for a few days, and notice that it soon begins to decompose, 
and gives off a most offensive odour. The smell of sulphuretted 
hydrogen, or the smell of " rotten eggs," may easily be recognised, 
showing the presence of sulphur in the albumin. 

292. The properties of raw lean meat. Examine a small piece of 
raw lean beef or mutton (Fig. 159). The meat is of a red colour, owing 
partly to the blood which still remains in it, but partly owing to the 
natural colour of the fibres. It consists of a number of parallel 
bundles (/, Fig. 159) of muscle-fibre. Try to tear the bundles (/) apart 
with the fingers. It is very difficult to separate them, owing to the 
connective tissue which binds them together. The connective tissue may 
be seen between the bundles especially at the cut ends as a white or 
pearly glistening membrane, which is very tough. 

Press a little blue litmus paper against the meat. The paper is 
reddened. Why ? 

283. The effects of boiling upon meat. (a) Put the piece of meat 
into a beaker of cold water, put in a thermometer, and heat the beaker 
over the Bunsen burner, noticing the changes which take place as the 
water is heated. At a temperature of about 58 C. the water becomes 
milky, owing to the coagulation of the albumin which has dissolved 
out of the meat. At about 71 C. most of the coagulated albumin rises to 
the surface as a brownish scum, leaving the liquid much clearer. Let 
the water simmer gently for half an hour, and then take out the meat 
and examine it. 

The colour of the meat has changed. It is no longer a bright red, 
but is brownish and much paler in colour. 

Try now to tear apart the muscle-bundles. They separate much more 
easily than before boiling. 

(b) Take a similar piece of meat and plunge it at once into boiling 
water. Notice that the water does not become cloudy as in the last 
experiment, and that the scum which rises to the top is much smaller 
in amount. Let the water simmer for a few minutes, and then lower the 
Bunsen flame and keep the water at a temperature of 80 or 85 C. for 
half an hour. Take out the meat and examine it. 

The outside is firm, and forms a sort of crust. Cut the meat open, 
and notice that the inside is juicy. 

294. Amount of water in lean meat. Weigh a dish, and cover the 
bottom evenly with small pieces of lean beef. Weigh again. The 

EX I'. HVC-. T 



274 EXPERIMENTAL IIYCIKNE CHAP. 

difference in weight is the weight of beef taken. Dry in the air-oven 
for about three hours at a temperature of from 100 C. to 105 C. Cool, 
and weigh again, and calculate the percentage of water lost during 
drying. 

Example : 

Weight of dish + undried beet = 39 '38 gms. 

,, empty dish = 32-34 

,, beef taken = 7*04 ,, 

Weight of dish + undried beef = 39-38 ,, 

+ dried beef = 34-24 



water lost during drying ... = "5*14 



.-. Percentage of water in the beef = 5 '* 4 x - = 73 -01. 

295. Amount of mineral matter in lean meat. Strongly heat the 
dish over the Bunsen burner. Notice the smell of the gases evolved. 
Continue the heating until only a white ash is left in the dish. Cool 
and weigh, and calculate the percentage of mineral matter in the beef 
originally taken. 

296. Amount of water and mineral matter in fat meat Repeat 
the last two experiments, using fat meat. Notice the behaviour of the 
meat during heating, and calculate the percentage of water and mineral 
matter present. 

Albumin or white of egg.- The egg of a bird consists 
chiefly of shell, " white " or albumin, and yolk. The albumin 
when fresh is a sticky, colourless liquid, practically without 
taste or smell, slightly alkaline, and soluble in water. When 
heated, it becomes opaque at a temperature of about 60 C., 
and forms a white solid which is insoluble in water. On con- 
tinued heating it blackens, and gives off smoke smelling strongly 
of burning hair or feathers. We have seen that a similar smell 
is produced when gluten (p. 208) and lean meat are burnt. In 
each case the peculiar odour is due to compounds of nitrogen 
which are liberated. 

Albumin, gluten, and the myosin of lean meat are very similar 
in chemical composition (p. 302), and each belongs to the class 
of bodies which chemists call protcids foods which arc abso- 
lutely necessary for the maintenance of animal life, inasmuch as 
animals are unable to make use of nitrogen from any other 
source than proteids. 

In general the proteids of animal origin, such as those con- 
tained in meat, fish, eggs, etc., are more readily digested than 



XXIII 



FLESH FOODS AND FISH. COOKING 



275 





proteids formed by plants, There are various reasons for this. 
One is that animal foods are already in a condition more nearly 
approaching the composition of our own bodies, and therefore 
require less change before they are ready for use. Another 
reason is that the food materials of vegetables are often enclosed 
in tough-walled cells, which the digestive juices cannot easily 
break down (Fig. 162). As a consequence, much of the nutri- 
tious matter of vegetables is often either wasted, or it throws an 
undue strain upon the 
digestive organs unless 
great precautions are 
taken in cooking. 

The structure of 
meats. The "meat" of 
animals consists of the 
lean or muscular tissue, 
and the fat which occurs 
in association with it. The 
latter may be present in 
quantities too small to be 
detected, except by special 
methods, as is the case 

with veal, young chickens, etc., or it may form masses of appre- 
ciable size. The fat should be firm and white. The lean of 
meat consists of bundles (Fig. 159) of muscular tissue bound 
together by tough thin sheets of connective tissue. The bundles 
in their turn are composed of very fine muscular fibres, too small 
to be seen by the naked eye. These are also bound together 
by connective tissue. 

The composition of lean meat. From 50 to 75 per cent, 
of lean meat usually consists of water (Expt. 294). The rest 
consists partly of proteids, partly of fat, and partly of mineral 
matter. When the meat is burnt, this mineral matter remains 
as ash. 

The average proportion of proteid matter present is about 20 
per cent. The chief proteid present in meat is myosin. It 
consists, like other proteids, of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and 
nitrogen, with traces of sulphur. It is present in lean meat in 
a semi-solid gelatinous condition. 

The composition of fish. Generally speaking, the com- 

T 2 



FIG. 159. A piece of muscle Oean meat), 
showing the bundles of muscular tissue. 



276 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

position of fish is very similar to that of meat, although fish 
usually contains a smaller proportion of fat There is, however, 
great variation in this respect among different kinds of fish, 
some being noticeably oily, while others are as free from 
fat as veal or rabbit. Like meat, fish is chiefly valuable on 
account of the proteids which it contains, and fish and lean 
meat are about equally digestible. The old idea that fish is an 
especially valuable food for brain-workers is now discredited 
by physiologists. 

Differences between animal and vegetable foods. 
The composition of vegetable foods differs largely from th'at of 
meat and fish. The flesh foods are rich in proteids and fats, but 
are almost destitute of carbohydrates (p. 221). Most of the 
cereals (p. 245) and other vegetable foods are deficient in proteids 
and fats, but contain large quantities of carbohydrates. 

An important exception is found in peas (Fig. 165), beans, 
lentils, and the seeds of other leguminous plants. These contain 
about as much proteid matter as meat, and differ chiefly in com- 
position from meat by the substitution of carbohydrates for fats. 

Flesh and vegetable food-stuffs are thus supplementary, each 
supplying what the other lacks. Their special and comparative 
values as foods will be more fully considered in Chapter XXV. 

Reasons for cooking meat. Although raw meat is 
probably more digestible than cooked, it is customary among 
all civilised nations to submit it to a process of boiling, stewing, 
roasting, or frying before eating it. One of the chief objects of 
cooking meat is to soften and loosen the tough connective tissue 
which binds its various parts together. The meat is thereby 
brought into a condition in which it is more completely acted 
upon by the digestive juices of the stomach, intestines, etc. At 
the same time new and appetising flavours are developed in 
the food, and its appearance is rendered more inviting by the 
changes in colour, etc., which are brought about during cooking. 
These changes indirectly assist digestion by causing a greater 
activity of the digestive organs. A more important object of 
cooking is the destruction of bacteria and other parasites which 
may be present in the meat. Unfortunately, the ordinary 
methods of cooking are generally quite insufficient for this 
purpose, as the interior of a large piece of meat is seldom heated 
to a temperature high enough to kill all forms of life. 



xxm I I.F.SII FOODS AND FISH. COOKING 277 



The effects of boiling upon meat. Whether meat is 
put into cold or boiling water in this method of cooking depends 
upon the object which the cook has in view ; for the result in 
the two cases is very different. 

If a rich broth or soup is desired, the meat is placed in cold 
water, which is gradually raised to the boiling point. As a result, 
the water dissolves much of the soluble albumin, the organic 
salts, and the flavouring substances which are present in the meat. 
As the temperature rises, more and more of these bodies are 
extracted. Small quantities of lactic acid are also formed, and 
these assist in the solution of certain constituents of the meat. 
When the water reaches a temperature of about 58 C., the 
dissolved albumin begins to coagulate, and at about 71 C. it 
separates into small particles which rise to the top of the broth, 
leaving the liquid below comparatively clear. Further heating 
coagulates the insoluble proteids which are still present in 
the meat, and also changes some of the connective tissue 
into gelatin, which dissolves in the broth, By this treat- 
ment the meat is left nearly tasteless, but it is neverthe- 
less very nutritious, and should not be rejected. It still con- 
tains the greater part of the proteid matter which was originally 
present. 

If the object of the boiling is to obtain juicy and well-flavoured 
meat, the piece should be plunged at once into boiling water. 
The result of this treatment is to coagulate the albumin on the 
outside of the meat, and thus form a sort of crust, which pro- 
tects the inside from the solvent action of the water. The water 
should be kept at the boiling point for about ten minutes, so 
that the pores of the meat may be thoroughly sealed by the 
coagulation of the albumin. It is not, however, advisable to 
maintain this temperature, as the albumin of the interior would 
thereby be also coagulated and the meat rendered hard. It is 
better to let the water cool to about 80 C., and complete the 
cooking at this temperature. Although a longer time is thus 
required, the result is a much more tender joint. 

The boiling of fish. A similar principle is adopted in 
boiling fish, but as the active boiling of the water would tend to 
break up the fish, the latter is put into water which does not 
quite boil. After the albumin has coagulated, the cooking is 
completed at a temperature of about 80 C. 



278 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



Stewing. The value of this method of cooking meat does 
not appear to be fully recognised. It combines the advantages 
of the two methods of boiling described above, as it yields not 
only a rich broth but also juicy and tender meat. The meat is 
cut into small pieces, and placed in cold water. The water is 
then gradually heated to about 80 C., and this temperature is 
maintained for three or four hours or even longer. 

Extracts of meat. Ordinary broth and beef-tea are by 
no means so nutritious as they are generally supposed to be. 
Their value is largely due to minute quantities of extractive 
matters, which are strongly flavoured, and have a stimulating 
effect upon the nervous system. 

Beef-tea is made by putting lean, juicy meat, cut into 
small pieces, with cold water into an earthenware jar. This is 
put into a saucepan of water, which is allowed to simmer gently 
from three to five hours. The liquid is strained through a 
coarse sieve, and set aside to cool. 

True meat extract contains neither albumin, gelatin, nor fat ; 
and its strong taste is due merely to flavouring matters and 
mineral salts. It is not a food, but a stimulant, resembling tea 
or coffee in its action. 

The yield of lean beef to water is only 2 per cent., and even 
very strong soups, prepared as described on p. 277, with the 
addition of herbs and flavouring matters, contain 96 per cent, or 
more of water. A large quantity must, therefore, be consumed, if 
soup is to supply much nutriment to the body. 

Steaming. In steaming, the food is surrounded by steam 
instead of by water. The changes which take place are 
essentially the same as those brought about by boiling. 

Cooking by dry heat. Roasting, frying, or broiling is a 
more economical method of cooking meat than boiling, as the 
juices are saved. As in boiling, the coagulation of the albumin 
which takes place especially on the outside, has a tendency to 
make the meat more or less hard and difficult of digestion ; but 
the flavours, which are developed at the same time, perhaps 
counteract this disadvantage to a large extent, by stimulating a 
freer flow of digestive juices. 

Part of the juice of the meat is driven out by the heat during 
roasting as in boiling. This is, however, saved and used as 
gravy with a roast, whereas it is lost with boiled meat. 



XXIII 



FLESH FOODS AND FISH. COOKING 



279 




It should be noticed that the most obvious difference between 
roasting, steaming, and boiling lies in the medium in which the 
meat is cooked. In roasting, this is hot air ; in steaming it is 
steam ; and in boiling it is hot water. The difference is more 
apparent than real, for, in each case, when 
the cooking is properly carried out, the meat 
is really cooked in its own juice. 

A small joint should be roasted at a higher 
temperature than a large one. Meat con- 
ducts heat so slowly that if a very hot fire is 
used for cooking a large piece of meat, the 
outside is burnt to a cinder before the piece 
is warmed through. On the other hand, it is 
best to employ fairly intense heat for cooking 
a steak or chop. The outside albumin is 
quickly coagulated, stopping up the pores and 
keeping in the juice ; and the inside is 
thoroughly cooked before the outside has had 
time to burn. 

Method of cooking decided by 
composition. The various "joints" and 
" cuts " of an animal differ considerably in 
composition, and this must be taken into account in deciding 
the method of cooking to be adopted. Juicy and tender pieces 
are generally roasted. The harder and tougher pieces are 
stewed, as continued heating at a moderate temperature is best 

adapted for softening the 
tissues. Pieces containing 
much gristle require either 
stewing or slow boiling ; dry 
heat simply hardens the 
gristle, and makes it useless 
for food. 

Composition of vari- 
ous cuts of meat. The 
principal "joints " of beef 

and mutton are shown in Figs. 160 and 161. Their value 
depends not only on the amount of bone, gristle, and fat 
which are present, but also on the tenderness of the meat 
itself. 



FIG. 160. Joints of 
beef. 




FIG. 161. Joints of mutton. 



280 



EXPERIMENTAL IIYfUENE 



CHAP. 



Of beef, the piece which contains'the most bone is the shin. 
Fifty per cent, of bone is not an unusual proportion. The price 
of shin of beef (330!. to 4d. a pound) is correspondingly low. 
Rump steak, on the other hand, which contains no bone, sells 
readily at is. a pound. The amount of fat also varies consider- 
ably in different regions of the body. The sirloin, ribs, flank, 
and brisket generally contain most fat 40 per cent, in some 
cases. 

In mutton, which is sold with the natural bone belonging to 
each cut, a similar variation of composition may be observed. 
The greatest proportion of fat occurs in the loin and the lower 
or " best " end of the neck. 

Veal is comparatively free from fat, while pork often contains 
a very large quantity. 

Variation due to age, etc. The composition of the 
same cut may vary considerably in two animals of the same 

species, according to age, sex, 
breed, previous feeding, and 
other circumstances. 

Reasons for cooking 
vegetables. It has been said 
(p. 276) that cooked meats are, 
strictly speaking, less easily 
digested than raw meats. This 
is largely due to the coagulation 
of the albumin which is brought 
about during cooking. 

Vegetable foods are compara- 
tively poor in proteids, so that 
in their case this objection does 
not hold good. On the other 
hand, the special value of vege- 
-particularly starch which they 




FIG. 162. Cells of a raw potato, with 
the starch grains in the natural con- 
dition. (Highly magnified.) 



tables lies in the carbohydrates- 
contain. 

The food-stuffs present are enclosed in cells, which have often 
thick and tough walls, impervious to the digestive fluids. This 
is well seen in Fig. 162. On cooking, the contents of the cells 
swell to such an extent that the walls are burst open (Figs. 163 
and 164). The insoluble starch is at the same time changed into 
a pasty and soluble form (pp. 217 and 248). 



XXIII 



FLESH FOODS AND FISH. COOKING 



281 



The cooking of peas, beans, etc. Peas (Fig. 165), 
beans, lentils, and the seeds of leguminous plants generally, 





FIG. 163. Cells of a potato boiled in 
water for half an hour. (Highly 
magnified.) 



FIG. 164. Cells of a potato well 
steamed and mashed. (Highly 
magnified.) 



arc remarkable for the large amount of proteids which they 
contain. On this account they may be used to a great extent 
as a substitute for animal foods. 
The objects of cooking these seeds 
are to soften and break up the cell- 
walls, to make the proteid ingre- 
dient (called legiimin) digestible 
and attractive in flavour, and to 
burst the starch grains. These 
results are best obtained by long, 
slow cooking in soft water. The 
use of hard water is especially to 
be avoided, as lime salts form an 
insoluble compound with the pro- 
teid legumin. 

SUMMARY. 

Fresh egg- albumin is soluble in 
water. At 60 C. it coagulates, be- 
coming white and opaque, and insoluble 
in water. It is a proteid. 

The myosin of lean meat and fish 
is very similar in composition to egg- 
albumin. 

Meat is cooked (i) to soften its connective tissue; (2) to make it 
more appetising ; (3) to kill bacteria and other parasites. 




FK;. 165. Pods and seeds of the 
garden pea. 



282 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CH. xxm 

Boiling. When meat is put into boiling water, the outside albumin 
is coagulated, forming an impervious crust which keeps in the 
juices. 

When meat is put into cold water, the temperature of which is 
gradually raised to the boiling point, the soluble matters are dissolved 
out into the broth before the albumin coagulates. 

In stewing, the meat is put into cold water, and the cooking carried 
out at 80 C. 

In roasting, broiling, and frying the juices of the meat are retained. 
A small joint should be roasted at a higher temperature than a large 
one. 

Vegetables are cooked (l) to soften and break up the cell- walls in 
which the food materials are contained ; (2) to burst starch grains ; (3) 
to develop appetising flavours. 

Animal foods contain practically no carbohydrates, but are rich in 
proteids and fats. 

Most of the cereals and other vegetable foods are deficient in proteids 
and fats, but contain large quantities of carbohydrates. 

Peas, beans, and other leguminous seeds contain about as much 
proteid matter as meat does. They should be cooked in soft water. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XXIII. 

1. Describe the properties of white of egg, and the changes which it 
undergoes on heating. 

2. Compare the composition of meat, fish, and lentils. 

3. What are the objects of cooking vegetables ? Why are vegetable 
foods considered less digestible than animal foods ? 

4. What is the essential object of cooking processes? Explain the 
changes which meat and bread respectively undergo when baked. (1893.) 

5. Explain the changes which meat undergoes in cooking, and indi- 
cate the essential differences between the processes of boiling and 
stewing. (1896.) 

6. How should beef- tea be made ? What food substances does it 
contain, and what value has it as a dietetic? (1897.) 

7. How is meat changed by the process of roasting ? What rules 
would you observe in roasting a joint ? (1895.) 

8. Explain the differences between boiling, roasting, and 'stewing 
meat. ( 1 899. ) 

9. What are the characteristics of good meat? Explain how to 
make a good meat stew. (1897.) 

10. Which is the more nutritious, rice or pea-flour? Upon what do 
their relative qualities depend ? ( 1894. ) 



CHAPTER XXIV 
MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 

THE PROPERTIES AND USES OF MILK 

297. New milk: appearance. Examine new milk. It is a -white 
opalescent liquid, which often has a slightly yellowish tinge. 

298. Microscopic appearance. Place a drop of milk on a clean 
microscope-slide, cover it with a cover-slip, taking care not to include 
any air-bubbles, and examine with both low and high powers. Small 
rounded globules of fat are seen. Milk owes its white colour to the 
myriads of fat globules which are diffused through it. When fat is thus 
broken up into minute separate particles, it is said to form an emulsion. 

Milk is a natural emulsion. 

299. The formation of cream. Allow some new milk to stand over- 
night in a glass vessel. The fat rises, and a layer of cream forms on the 
top of the milk ; the line of demarcation between the cream and the milk 
below is very clear. The cream occupies about 7 per cent, of the whole 
volume. Carefully remove the cream with a spoon, and preserve the 
skim milk which is left for Expt. 301. 

300. Density of new milk. By the method explained on p. 32 
find the density or specific gravity of new milk. It will probably lie 
between I '029 and I '034. Make a note of this. 

What is the weight in Ibs. of a gallon of the milk ? 

301. Density of skim milk. When the lighter constituent of a 
mixture is removed, the remainder has a higher density or specific 
gravity than the original mixture. Determine the specific gravity of 
skim milk that is, milk from which the light cream has been 
removed. 

Skim milk is noticeably denser than new. Ics specific gravity is 
about 1-035. 

302. Density of watered milk. As milk is denser than water, the 
addition of water to it lowers its density or specific gravity. Add 
about a tenth of its volume of water to a sample of new milk, the 
specific gravity of which has already been found. Stir, and find the 
specific gravity of the mixture. It is less than that of the unwatered 
milk. 



284 KXI'KRI MENTAL ITYGIENE CHAP. 

As the specific gravity of milk is raised by the removal of its cream, 
and lowered by the addition of water, it is possible first to remove 
some of the cream and then add water in such proportions that the 
resulting specific gravity is the same as that of the original milk. 

The specific gravity alone is therefore not a trustworthy test of the 
genuineness of milk. 

303. Amount of solids in milk. Measure with a graduated pipette 
10 c.c. of a sample of milk of known specific gravity, 1 and run this into 
a small, previously weighed dish. Evaporate the milk to dryness on 
the water-bath, and drive off the last traces of moisture by afterwards 
heating the dish with its residue in the air-oven at a temperature of 
between 100 C. and 102 C. for two hours. After cooling, weigh the 
dish and residue, and calculate the percentage of solid matter contained 
in the milk taken. 

Genuine milk usually contains about 12*5 per cent, of solid matter. 

304. Mineral matters in milk. Strongly heat the dish with its 
residue over a small, colourless Bunsen flame. The residue blackens, 
smokes, and bursts into flame. On prolonged heating, it all burns 
away, with the exception of a little white ash, consisting of the mineral 
or inorganic constituents of the milk. 

305. Milk curdled by a weak acid. Add a little vinegar to half a 
cupful of milk. The milk curdles, separating into two portions a 
thick clot or curd, and a thin watery liquid. 

306. Milk curdled by rennet. To half a cupful of milk warmed to 
blood-heat (98 F.) add about half a teaspoonful of "concentrated 
essence of rennet," which may be obtained from the chemists. Stir, 
and then cool the mixture. The milk has curdled. Break up the 
curd with a glass rod, and filter off a little of the water)' liquid or whey, 

307. The presence of milk-sugar in whey. Add about a teaspoon- 
ful of whey to twice as much Fehling's solution (p. 214) in a test-tube, 
and put the test-tube into boiling water for five minutes. A red precipi- 
tate shows the presence of a sugar. In this case the sugar is lactose or 
milk-sugar (p. 229). 

308. The souring of milk. Put aside a small dishful of milk for a 
few days. The milk turns sour owing to the conversion of lactose into 
lactic acid. The lactic acid formed curdles the milk as the vinegar did 
in Expt. 305. 

309. How to make butter. Put a cupful of cream into a jug, and 
beat it with a wooden spoon. After a short time the fat of the cream 
sticks together to form lumps of butter. Take these out, and knead 
them in a porcelain dish until as much brittermilk as possible has been 
squeezed out. 

310. Properties of butter. Examine the properties of ordinary 
butter. It may vary in colour from white to yellow. It has a 
characteristic smell and taste. Fill a small beaker with butter, and put 
the beaker in a warm place on the top of the air-oven, for example 
until the butter is completely melted. It then forms two separate 
layers: an upper layer of butter fat with a little curd; and a lower 

1 The weight of milk taken is therefore known. 



xxiv MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 285 



smaller layer consisting of water, curd, and salt. Pour off the upper 
layer into a dry filter, and collect the clear butter fat which runs through. 

311. The Valenta test for pure butter fat. Graduate a test-tube by 
running in 3 c.c. of water from a burette, and making a scratch with a 
file upon the tube at the level of the surface of the water. Run in 
another 3 c.c., and make another scratch at the 6 c. c. level. Pour the 
water out, dry the test-tube, and pour in 3 c.c. of strong acetic acid. 
Then pour in 3 c.c. of the melted butter fat. Shake the tube, and put. 
it into water and heat the water. Notice the temperature at which the 
contents of the tube remain clear after shaking. 

Equal volumes of strong acetic acid (containing 99 per cent, of pure 
acetic acid) and pure butter fat form a clear liquid at a temperature of 
about 40 C. 

312. The behaviour of margarine fat with acetic acid. Obtain a 
sample of margarine, and treat it in the same way : melting and filtering 
off the clear fat, and heating 3 c.c. of it with 3 c.c. of strong acetic 
acid. A much higher temperature (75 C. or higher) is required to give 
a clear liquid than is the case with pure butter fat. 

Milk. Milk is the fluid secreted by the females of all mam- 
malian animals for the nutrition of their young. It is the 
most perfect food in Nature. 

Cows' milk, which is most largely consumed, is an opalescent 
liquid, either white or with a slightly yellowish tinge. It has a 
mild, sweet taste, and a faint, pleasant odour. Its colour is due to 
the presence of very fine globules of fat, which may be distinctly 
seen when a drop of milk is examined under the microscope. 
These fat droplets vary in size, but are usually not more than 
usVo" f an mcn m diameter. They are kept from running 
together by the thin film of milk which surrounds each droplet. 

A liquid like milk, which contains finely divided particles of 
fat in this condition, is called an emulsion, 

When new milk is allowed to stand, the particles of fat, 
which are lighter than the liquid in which they are suspended, 
rise to the top, and form a layer of cream. When the cream 
is removed, either by skimming or by one of the " separators " 
devised for the purpose, the liquid remaining is known as skim 
or separated milk. 

The density or specific gravity of new milk varies between 
1*029 anc l I '34- That of skim milk, from which the light fat has 
been removed, is of course greater, being about ro35- The 
addition of water to new milk, on the other hand, lowers the 
specific gravity. It is possible, by first removing some of the 
cream and afterwards adding water, to obtain a liquid having 



286 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

the specific gravity of genuine new milk. The specific gravity 
alone, therefore, cannot be relied upon as a criterion of the 
genuineness of milk. 

Curds and whey. When milk is allowed to stand for a 
considerable time, it becomes sour, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid. The action of the acid upon the constituents of 
the milk causes it to separate into two portions : (i) a clot or 
curd, consisting chiefly of the fat and a proteid substance 
known as caseinj and (2) a watery portion, the whey. This 
change may also be brought about by the direct addition to 
the milk of a weak acid, such as vinegar. 

Rennet. The separation of milk into curds and whey is 
effected in cheese-making (p. 290) by a ferment called rennet, 
which is extracted from the fourth stomach of a calf. Its 
action is particularly interesting, because the same ferment is 
present in the stomach of man, and brings about the same change, 
as a preliminary to digestion, in milk used as human food. 

The composition of milk. There is some variation in 
the proportions of the constituents occurring in genuine cows' 
milk, but the average composition of 120,540 samples, analysed 
by Dr. Vieth, was as follows : 

Total Solids { Fat. - 4'i P cent. 

I Solids not fat 8 '8 

Water 87-1 

lOO'O 

Thousands of analyses made by other chemists, notably 
H. Droop Richmond, Dr. Vieth' s successor in the laboratory 
of the Aylesbury Dairy Company, fully confirm these results. 

For some years the low standard adopted by the Inland 
Revenue authorities, apparently founded upon the composition 
of the liquid yielded by certain abnormally ill-fed cows, has made 
it difficult to restrict properly the sale of adulterated milk. The 
standard of the Society of Public Analysts is as follows : 

Total Solids { Fa 1 t ' ' jo per cent. 

I Solids not fat 8-5 

Water 88-5 

lOO'O 



XXiv MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 287 

Even this is to be regarded as the composition of very poor, but 
possibly genuine, milk. It is hoped that a standard more nearly 
representing milk of average quality than that hitherto in force 
may shortly be made legal. 1 

The fat of milk, which is the source of butter and an 
important constituent of cheese, consists of a mixture of 
different fats. These are compounds of glycerine with 
certain organic acids : palmitic, oleic, and butyric being the 
chief. 

Casein is the chief proteid (p. 210) contained in milk. It is 
thrown down as a curd when dilute acid or rennet is added. A 
small amount of albumin, somewhat 
similar to egg-albumin (p. 274), also a<*<*Oj> 

occurs in milk. About one-quarter of ^ c> "^0* V} o 
the solid matter of milk consists of /^L ^ ^^ Q 
proteids. fi ^ * ^ \ r\ < ^* 

Milk-sugar, or lactose, is the prin- ^ <*? ^ 

cipal carbohydrate of milk. It has the 

Same Composition as Cane SUgar FIG. 166. Lactic acid bacteria, 

. . . very highly magnified. (After 

(p. 229), but IS much leSS Sweet. About Pasteur.) In order to give 

5 per Cent. Of milk Consists Of milk- ^"ria^some 6 yeit-c2k ''are 

sugar. Its presence may be readily figured among them, 
shown in whey ; that is, in milk from 

which the casein and fat have been removed by means of 
rennet. The whey is heated with Fehling's solution (p. 214), 
when a red precipitate is obtained. 

When milk is kept in a warm place for some time, its milk- 
sugar is acted upon by certain minute plants or bacteria 
(Fig. 166), and decomposed. Lactic acid is formed, and curdles 
the milk. 

A small quantity of mineral matter is also contained in milk. 
This is left as a white ash when milk is evaporated to dryness 
and the residue ignited. 

Human milk. Human milk contains the same con- 
stituents as cows' milk, but in somewhat different proportions. 
Human milk is richer in sugar, but contains a smaller quantity 
of proteids than cows' milk. It is therefore customary, in 

1 During the passage of this book through the press the standard of the Society 
of Public Analysts has been made legal, coming into force on September ist, 
1901. 



288 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



preparing cows' milk for the use of infants, to dilute it with 
water and add sugar. 

The value of milk as a food. It should now be clear 
why milk has, from the earliest times, been considered so 
valuable a food. Not only are all the classes of nutrients 
proteids, fats, carbohydrates, and mineral matters contained 
in it, but they are also present in more nearly the required pro- 
portions than in any other single food. A quart of milk contains 
about as much nutriment .as 12 ounces of beef or as 6 ounces 
of bread ; but the food materials of the milk form a better- 
balanced diet than the bread, and those of the bread in their turn 
are more suitably combined than those of the beef. The chief 
disadvantage of milk as an entire food for adults lies in the 
large proportion of water present. The proportion of proteid 
matter, as compared with the fat and carbohydrates, is also 
slightly higher than is necessary. Milk is, however, especially 
suitable for mixing with other foods, as, for example, the cereals 
(Chapter XIX.). The nutritious qualities of bread are very 
materially improved if milk is used instead of water in mixing 
the dough. 

Skim or separated milk. Milk which has been skimmed 
by hand is now very rarely met with, as the cream is almost 
always removed by means of one of the various mechanical 
separators. The vessel containing the milk is made to rotate 
rapidly, and the light cream collects at the centre and is drawn 
off. The best separators leave only a trace of fat in the milk. 
The proteids and milk-sugar which still remain are, however, 
very useful foods, and give skim milk a value which does not 
appear to be fully recognised. 

Cream. Cream is obtained from milk, either by the use of 
the separators referred to above, or by warming the milk in 
pans for several hours. In the latter case the cream, which 
rises to the top, is very firm. It comes into the market as 
" Devonshire" or " Cornish " cream. 

Cream should contain about 45 per cent, of fat. It is the fat 
which gives the characteristic " thickness " to genuine cream, 
but cream is sometimes sold which has been artificially thickened 
by the addition of gelatin. Cream turns sour so rapidly that a 
preservative is generally added before it is put on the market. 
This is commonly a mixture of borax and boracic acid. 



xxiv MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 289 

The value of cream as a food depends upon the fat which it 
contains, but the price is generally so high that its use can 
scarcely be regarded as economical. 

Condensed milks. Condensed milks, which are now so 
common, usually consist of milk which has been concentrated 
to one-third its original volume. When this is the case, it is 
merely necessary to add twice the volume of water to obtain a 
fluid having the composition of the original milk. 

Many brands contain added sugar, and it is not uncommon to 
find on the vessels containing these a recommendation to dilute 
with an amount of water which would yield a liquid consider- 
ably weaker than genuine milk. It is obvious that great danger 
is involved in using the weak fluids thus obtained as the chief 
or only food of young children. 

The so-called " condensed skim milks " are to be avoided, 
especially for the purpose for which they are generally used 
the feeding of infants. They contain practically no fat what- 
ever, and are quite unsuited for the nourishment of children. 

Butter. When cream is shaken vigorously, the particles 
of fat join together to form butter, and the milk which was 
entangled with them is left behind as buttermilk. When 
properly treated, a quart of good cream yields about a pound of 
butter. 

Butter usually contains about 85 per cent, of fat. The re- 
mainder consists of water and curd (casein), with a varying 
quantity of added salt. Properly made butter contains from 
12 to 1 6 per cent, of water. When more than this proportion 
is present, the excess has generally been purposely added as an 
adulteration. 

The fat of genuine butter has of course the same composition 
(p. 287) as that of milk. It may be separated from the other 
constituents by melting the butter. The water, salt, and most 
of the curd sink to the bottom of the vessel, and the fat may be 
filtered through a dry filter-paper in a funnel. 

Margarine, which is made by churning beef or mutton fat 
(p. 267) with milk or cream, to give it the flavour and smell of 
genuine butter, is a cheap substitute for butter, and is often 
fraudulently sold as butter. It consists chiefly, like suet, of 
compounds of glycerine with stearic, palmitic, and oleic acids. 
It differs from butter principally in containing no butyrin^ or 

EXP. HYG. U 



290 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

butyrate of glycerine, which is an essential constituent of butter 
fat. 

A readily applied test of the genuineness of butter consists in 
mixing equal volumes of the clarified fat and strong acetic acid, 
and heating the mixture. With genuine butter the mixture 
becomes clear at a comparatively low temperature (about 40 C.), 
while with the fat of margarine a temperature of 75 C. or more 
is required. 

It should be pointed out that well-made margarine is a per- 
fectly wholesome article of food. It is to be objected to only 
when it is sold as butter, which commands a higher price. 

Cheese. In the manufacture of cheese, milk is curdled, 
generally by means of rennet, and the curd is cut up into small 
pieces and allowed to stand until it has " ripened." Character- 
istic flavours are produced during the process of ripening. The 
change is due to the action of certain bacteria and moulds. 
When the ripening is complete, the curd is placed in a press, 
and the excess of water is removed by a gradually increasing 
pressure. 

Cheese consists of proteids chiefly casein fat, water, and a 
little mineral matter. The proportions of these naturally vary 
with different kinds of cheese. 

The only adulteration of cheese which is practised consists 
in the substitution of margarine fats for butter fat. Such 
"margarine cheeses" are not often exposed for sale in this 
country. 

SUMMARY. 

Milk is a dense, white fluid, containing about 13 per cent, of solid 
matter, which consists partly of fat and partly of non-fatty compounds. 

The fat is suspended in the liquid in minute drops, forming an 
emulsion. 

The solids not fat are in solution. They consist chiefly of casein 
(a proteid), milk-sugar (a carbohydrate), and a small quantity of 
mineral matter. 

On standing, the fat globules rise to the surface as a layer of cream. 
When this is removed, the liquid left is known as skim or separated 
milk. 

The best brands of condensed milk are prepared by evaporating new 
milk to one-third its volume. Added sugar is often present. 

When rennet or a weak acid is added to milk, the fat and casein 
separate in the form of curd. The milk-sugar remains in the liquid or 



xxiv MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 291 

whey. Curd produced in this way is made into cheese, by first allowing 
it to ripen, and then pressing it to remove excess of water. 

Butter is made by vigorously shaking (churning) cream, thus causing 
the globules of fat to cohere and form a compact mass. This is kneaded 
to remove the milk which was entangled with the fat globules of the 
cream, and salt is usually added as a preservative. Butter fat chiefly 
differs from beef and mutton fats (the basis of margarine] in containing 
a fat known as butyrin. 

Milk is the most perfect of all natural foods. Its constituents not 
only provide all that is necessary for complete nutrition, but are also 
present in very suitable proportions. 

EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XXIV. 

1. What substances are present in new milk ? To which classes of 
food-materials do they respectively belong ? 

2. What is an emulsion ? Give an example of a natural emulsion. 

3. What would be the effect upon the specific gravity of new milk 
of (a) removing the cream, (b] adding water? 

4. Describe the effect of adding essence of rennet to lukewarm 
milk. 

5. What occurs when milk turns sour ? 

6. Of what do curds and whey respectively consist ? 

7. How is butter made ? Compare the composition of its fat with 
that of beef -suet. 

8. What is margarine ? How would you distinguish it from genuine 
butter ? 

9. How is " condensed milk " prepared ? In using such milk for the 
preparation of children's food, what precautions must be adopted ? 

10. Why is milk a good food for young children? What is the 
average composition of cows' milk ? (1898.) 

11. Explain the preparation of cheese. What is its value as an 
article of diet, and what is its average composition ? (1896. ) 

12. Life can be sustained on milk alone longer than on any other 
single article of food : explain the reason for this. Why is malted food 
good for very young children ? ( 1 896. ) 

13. What is the composition of butter? Mention the common 
adulterations. ( 1 899. ) 

14. How is bread prepared ? Explain its value as a food, and 
contrast its general composition with that of cheese. (1897.) 



U 2 



CHAPTER XXV 
THE HUMAN FRAME. DIGESTION AND DIET 

DIGESTIVE PROCESSES 

313. Some properties of starch and sugar. Before this chapter is 
proceeded with, Expts. 214, 215, and 218 should be repeated. They 
show that 

(a) Starch paste will not pass through a moist membrane, such as 
parchment paper. 

(b) Sugar solution will pass through such a membrane. 

(c) Saliva will convert starch paste into sugar when the mixture is 
kept warm. 

314. The action of saliva prevented by acid. Repeat Expt. 218, 
but first make the mixture faintly acid by the addition of a little 
dilute hydrochloric acid. On testing it with Fehling's solution after 
some hours, no precipitate is obtained. 

Saliva does not convert starch into sugar in the presence of free acid. 

315. The action of pepsin on white of egg. Into a beaker, measure 
I cubic centimetre of strong hydrochloric acid, and then add 180 c.c. 
of distilled water. Stir, and add a small pinch of pepsin, a pale yellow 
powder, which may be obtained from the chemists. Take a piece (about 
the size of a hazel nut) of fresh hard-boiled white of egg, break it up 
into small pieces, and add it to the solution. Put the beaker into a 
place where it can be kept lukewarm, and stir it at intervals. 

After a few hours, or less, it will be found that the white of egg ha 
completely dissolved. 

The albumin has been changed into another proteid called peptone, 
which is soluble in water, and also passes readily through a moist 
membrane. 

316. Pepsin inactive in the absence of free acid. Repeat the last 
experiment, using the water and pepsin, but omitting the acid. 

The white of egg remains undissolved. 

317. The presence of carbon dioxide in expired air. Repeat the 
experiment of breathing into lime-water contained in a beaker or test- 
tube (Fig. in). 

The lime-water is turned milky, showing that the air worn the lungs 
contains a great deal of carbon dioxide gas. 



CH. xxv THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 293 



Organs and tissues of the human body. The human 
body consists of various parts which have special duties to 
perform. Thus the skeleton acts as a supporting framework ; 
the muscles enable the body to make certain movements ; the 
heart pumps blood throughout the system ; the lungs take in 
fresh air ; the brain and other parts of the nervous system exert 
a controlling and directive influence over the activities of the 
rest of the body ; and so on. Such parts, which perform special 
duties, are known as organs. Organs, in their turn, are built 
up of tissues, which vary, as the materials of one building 
may vary from those of another. Thus the heart and the 
muscles are composed of muscular tissue, the skeleton is chiefly 
composed of bony tissue, the brain consists of nervous tissue, 
etc. 

The chemical composition of the body. The tissues 
are composed of chemical compounds. These fall naturally 
into three groups : (i) water, which is driven off as steam when 
the tissue is dried by heating it to a temperature of 100 C, 
(Expt. 294) ; (2) organic matter, which burns away when the 
dried tissue is strongly heated in air (Expt. 295); and (3) mineral 
matter, which remains as ash when the organic matter has 
burnt completely away. 

. More than half the substance of the human body is water. 
The organic matter of the body consists of various compounds, 
chiefly built up from the chemical elements carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, and nitrogen. Some of them contain also sulphur and 
phosphorus. The inorganic or mineral matter is composed of 
compounds of the elements calcium, sulphur, phosphorus, 
chlorine, sodium, potassium, iron, magnesium, silicon, and 
fluorine. Some of these elements, however, are present in very 
minute quantities. 

Excretions. It is common knowledge that, during life, 
certain substances are constantly being given off from the body. 
The skin is always more or less moist with the perspiration 
which escapes from its pores. The breath which leaves the 
lungs contains a considerable quantity of water vapour, which 
condenses to visible drops of water when we breathe upon such 
a cold surface as a looking-glass. A large amount of water is 
given off in the course of the day by the kidneys. A less 
familiar body is urea, a compound containing nitrogen which 



294 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



is also excreted by the kidneys. Expt. 174 proved that the 
air leaving the lungs is heavily loaded with carbon dioxide 
gas. 

These waste materials, water, urea, and carbon dioxide, which 
the body gives off, are known as excretions. As water consists 
of oxygen and hydrogen ; urea, of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, 
and nitrogen ; and carbon dioxide, of carbon and oxygen, it is 
evident that there is a continuous drain of the elements carbon, 
hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen from the system. 

The necessity for food. It is plain that, if the health of 
the body is to be maintained, these losses must be made good 
by a regular supply of new material. We obtain this fresh 
supply from food. 

Food as a fuel. In health, the temperature of the body 
never departs very widely from 37 C. or 98'5 F. How is this 
temperature kept up ? 

In Expt. 295 it was seen that dried beef readily catches fire 
and burns, giving off much light and heat. The burning is 
due to the combination of the carbon, hydrogen, and nitro- 
gen of the beef with the oxygen of the air. The burning 
of organic matter always gives rise to heat, whatever the con- 
ditions under which it takes place. The heat may be made to 
do work of various kinds, as when coal is burnt in the boiler 
fires of steam-engines, etc. In this case the heat given off by 
the burning coal is partly converted into mechanical energy, 
which drives the engine, and, through it, does work. A pre- 
cisely similar process takes place in our own bodies. The 
organic matter which we take in as food is fuel. After it 
has been changed into living tissue, it is gradually burnt in 
those parts of the body which are doing work, and the energy 
or power of doing work which the body possesses is entirely 
derived from the oxidation or burning of the food ; just as the 
energy or power of doing work which a steam-engine possesses 
is entirely derived from the oxidation or burning of the coal in 
the boiler fires. 

The capabilities of the commonest food substances of acting 
as fuel have been determined ; and they afford a useful indica- 
tion of the relative values of these foods, although, as we shall 
see, other circumstances have also to be taken into account. 
An ounce of such a proteid as lean meat or white of egg has 



xxv THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 295 

almost the same fuel value as an ounce of a carbohydrate like 
sugar or starch ; while the fuel value of an ounce of fat beef- 
fat or butter, for example is about 2^ times as great as either. 

Fats are thus much more concentrated fuels than either 
proteids or carbohydrates. 

The maintenance of the body temperature. The 
burning or oxidation of the coal in boiler fires gives rise to heat, 
which is partly available, as we have seen, for doing mechanical 
work. Much of the heat produced, however, remains heat, and 
is not converted into mechanical energy. The same is the case 
with our own bodies. The energy set free by the burning of the 
tissues (p. 294) gives the body the power of performing all the 
complicated actions of which it is capable ; but some five-sixths 
of the energy is manifested as heat, which keeps the body at a 
fairly uniform temperature of about 37 C. 

The body maintains itself at this temperature to a great 
extent automatically by the control which the nervous system 
has over the circulation of the blood. Practically every part of 
the system is permeated by blood-vessels ; and as the hot fluid 
circulates it keeps the body warm, somewhat as the hot-water 
apparatus of a school or house warms the rooms of the 
building. 

When the rate of burning is largely increased, as it is during 
vigorous exercise, the supply of blood to the skin is increased, 
and we perspire more freely than usual. It has been explained 
on p. 62 that when water or any other liquid evaporates it 
takes up heat: The heat which the perspiration takes up as it 
evaporates comes from the body, which is thus cooled. 

Definition of food. - Food may be defined as material 
which, when taken into the body, serves for building up new 
tissues. The oxidation, or slow burning, of the tissues gives 
rise to heat and other forms of energy. It is only in very few 
cases that food is directly oxidised without having been previously 
converted into living tissue. 

Classification of foods. The classification of foods which 
perhaps most naturally suggests itself is one into (i) animal 
foods, and (2) vegetable foods. This distinction is borne out by 
actual analysis, for vegetable foods are, as a rule, rich in one 
class of nutrients the carbohydrates which occur to only a 
very small extent in animal foods. 



296 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



We may, however, regard food from a point of view which 
includes both animals and vegetables. In each case the food 
as obtained contains more or less material (such as bone, 
shells, skin, rind, bran, etc.) which cannot be used. This may 
be called refuse. The eatable part which remains may be 
further divided into water and actually nutritious substances or 
nutrients. The nutrients in their turn consist of proteids, 
carbohydrates, fats, and mineral matters. The classification 
may be exhibited in a tabular form as follows : 



/ REFUSE: e.g., bone, shells, rind, bran, etc. 
'Water 



FOOD 



EATABLE PART ( 



\ Nutrients 



( Proteids ; e.g., albumin, 
casein, myosin, gluten. 
Consist of C, H, O, 
N, [S], [P]. 

Fats; e.g., butter fat, 
meat fats, oil of seeds, 
etc. Consist of C, H, 
O. 

Carbohydrates; e.g., 
starch, sugars, etc. 
Consist of C, H, O. 

M i n era I matters; e.g. , 
chlorides, sulphates, 
and phosphates of so- 
dium, potassium, cal- 
cium, and magnesium. 



Air as a food. It was shown in Chapter X. that the 
atmosphere consists principally of a mixture of nitrogen and 
oxygen gases. Although nitrogen and oxygen are so necessary 
for building up new tissues, air can be regarded as a food only 
by giving the very widest and indeed a scarcely accurate 
interpretation to the term. The nitrogen of air is absolutely 
useless as food. It simply serves to dilute the oxygen, and 
passes in and out of the lungs unchanged. The oxygen of 
the air is a food to the following very limited extent : it 
combines with the elements of the tissues when they bum in 
the body, and so takes a material part in the liberation of 
energy which accompanies the burning. How does the oxygen 
reach the tissues ? 



XXV 



THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 



297 




Respiration. Respiration or breathing is carried out in the 
lungs (Fig. 112). The lungs have a spongy texture (Fig. 167) : 
consisting largely of tiny air-cells, 
which are separated from each A 

other by very thin partitions. In 
these partitions are very small chan- 
nels, called capillaries, through which 
the blood is continually flowing. The 
blood in the capillaries of the lungs 
is thus separated from the air in the 
air-cells by an extremely delicate mem- 
brane only ; so thin is this membrane 
that oxygen readily passes through it 
from the air-cells to the blood. The 
blood contains certain little red discs, 
called red corpuscles (r, r 1 , Fig. 168). 

, . , , -11 FIG. 167. A small piece of lung, 

The oxygen combines loosely with the highly magnified to show the 
colouring matter of the red corpuscles, air-cells (). 
and is consequently carried by them 

to all parts of the body as the blood circulates. As the blood 
passes through tissues needing oxygen, the oxygen is given up 

to them. The blood at 
the same time receives 
the waste carbon di- 
oxide formed by the 
previous activity of the 
tissue ; and when this 
part of the blood next 
passes through the 
capillaries of the lungs, 
it gives up the carbon 
dioxide to the air, and 
receives a fresh supply 
of oxygen from the air. 
The lungs are thus 
not only organs of excre- 

seen on the flat; r', red corpuscles seen on .- o r tVi* c Vin anrl 

edge, and run together into rows ; , /-. e, </, - , tlOn > as are the Skm and 

colourless corpuscles. (Very highly magnified."* kidneys (p. 293), but also 

organs of respiration. 
Digestion. It has been seen that the use of food is to be 




FIG. 168. Bl:>od corpuscles, r, red corpuscles 



2 9 8 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



built up into the substance of living tissue, and so repair the 
waste of the latter. Before food can thus fulfil its purpose, it 
must undergo certain important changes which constitute 
digestion. The fats must be reduced to that extremely fine 
state of subdivision which is called an emulsion (p. 285) ; and 




FiG. 169. The abdominal portion of the alimentary canal. 

R, right ; L, left ; ce, oesophagus ; st, stomach ; //, small intestine ; A. col, T. col, 
D. col, large intestine ; A', rectum. 

the proteids and carbohydrates must be rendered not only 
soluble, but also diffusible that is, able to pass through a thin 
membrane. When this has been done, the digested food can 
be taken up by the blood, and carried to the tissues, the waste of 
which it is to repair. 



XXV 



THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 



299 



The alimentary canal. The digestion of food takes 
place in a tube, called the alimentary canal, which runs 
throughout the body. It consists of the mou/ti-cavlty, the 
gullet or oesophagus, the stotnach, and the intestines. The 
greater part of the length of the alimentary canal is shown in 
Fig. 169. 

The changes which food undergoes in the ali- 
mentary canal. We have now to consider how the 
constituents of such a typical 
meal as bread, beef, and pota- 
toes are acted upon in their 
passage along the alimentary 
canal. 

In the mouth the food is 
ground up by the teeth into 
fine particles. At the same 
time it becomes thoroughly 
mixed with a fluid, the 
.W7//7VZ, which is poured into 
the mouth in great abund- 
ance during:: the process of 
chewing or mastication. The 
saliva is formed by certain 
organs called salivary glands 
(Fig. 170). The saliva con- 
tains a small quantity of 

ptyalin, a substance which has the power of changing insoluble 
and non-diffusible starch into a soluble and diffusible sugar 
(pp. 215 and 292). The food remains in the mouth for so short 
a time, however, that only a very small part of the starch 
of the bread and potatoes is converted into sugar before it is 
swallowed. 

When the food reaches the stomach (Fig. 171), it is subjected 
to the action of another fluid, called the gastric juice. Gastric 
juice contains three important constituents ; one is hydrochloric 
acid, which is present to the extent of about o'2 per cent. ; the 
other two are ferments, known as rennet (p. 286) and pepsin 
(Expt. 315) respectively. The hydrochloric acid arrests the 
action of the ptyalin of the saliva (Expt. 314) as soon as the 
food enters the stomach ; and the action of the gastric juice is 




FIG. 170. Dissection to show the salivary 
glands : a } b, and c. 



300 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

confined to the proteids (gluten and myosin). These are 
converted into a soluble and diffusible proteid called peptone 
(Expt. 315). 

The stomach is very muscular, and it " contracts " in such a 
manner that the food and the gastric juice with which it is 
mixed are thoroughly churned up, giving rise to a mass of the 
consistency of pea-soup, and known as chyme. 

When the chyme passes through the narrow opening d 
(Fig. 171) into the first part of the small intestine, it is exposed 




FIG. 1 7 1. -The stomach laid open, a, oesophagus ; 6, dilation on left end of stomach ; 
f, the upper wall ; d, the narrow opening between the stomach and the small 
intestine ; e, bile duct ; /, gall bladder ; g, pancreatic duct, opening with bile 
duct into A, i, the first part of the small intestine 



to the action of the secretions of two large glands, the liver and 
the pancreas. These secretions, known as bile and pancreatic 
juice respectively, enter the intestine by a common duct 
(Fig. 171). Both secretions contain alkalis, and these at once 
stop the action of the gastric juice, which can only act in the 
presence of free acid (Expt. 316). The digestive action of the bile 
is chiefly to break up the fats of the food into minute globules, 
or "emulsify" them (p. 285). The pancreatic juice has the 
same effect upon fats, but possesses in addition three ferments, 



xxv THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 301 

which enable it (i) to turn starch into sugar (as ptyalin does) ; 
(2) to change indiffusible proteicjs into peptone (as pepsin does) ; 
and (3) so to decompose fats that with the alkaline matters 
present they can form soaps (Chapter XXII.). 

The fate of the various food-stuffs may be summarised as 
follows : 

Proteids are rendered soluble and diffusible by the action of 
(i) the gastric juice in the stomach ; (2) the pancreatic juice in 
the small intestine. 

Starch is converted into soluble and diffusible sugar (i) to a 
small extent by the ptyalin of saliva in the mouth ; (2) by the 
pancreatic juice in the small intestine. 

Fats are emulsified, and (to a very small extent) changed into 
soaps or saponified, in the small intestine by the pancreatic 
juice and bile. 

Absorption. When the carbohydrates and proteids have 
been rendered soluble and diffusible, they make their way 
through the very thin membrane which divides the cavity of the 
alimentary canal from the cavities of the minute blood-vessels 
permeating its walls. They then enter the blood, and are 
carried by its circulation to the various tissues of the body, to 
make good the waste which these have undergone. Absorption 
takes place to a small extent through the walls of the stomach, 
but by far the greater part is carried on in the small intestine. 
This applies also to the salts. 

The fats are also absorbed in the small intestine, but reach 
the blood-stream by a somewhat roundabout path. 

In the large intestine (Fig. 169) the useful material which still 
remains unabsorbed is taken up, together with a very large 
quantity of water. Such matter as is now left consists chiefly 
(when only so much food as is necessary is eaten) of indigestible 
substances. In its passage through the large intestine it 
gradually acquires the character of fasces, and is ultimately 
discharged by the rectum (Fig. 169). 

The daily food supply. An average healthy man every 
day gives off about | oz. of nitrogen, and about 9^ ozs. of carbon 
in the various excretions of his body. We have therefore to 
consider how these losses may best be replaced in his daily food. 
It has more than once been pointed out (pp. 210 and 274) that 
proteids form the only available source of nitrogen. Proteids 



302 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

correspond closely to one another in composition, which may be 
considered to be roughly as follows : 

Carbon 53 per cent. 

Oxygen 22 

Nitrogen 16 

Hydrogen 7 

-Sulphur 2 

100 

As proteids form the only source from which the body can 
obtain its nitrogen, our average man, who throws off f oz. of 

nitrogen per day, must evidently consume at least f x 1^? = 47 ozs. 

of proteid matter per day in order to make good this loss. 

This quantity (47 ozs.) of proteids would thus supply the neces- 
sary amount of nitrogen, but would contain only = 2*5 ozs. 

of carbon ; whereas the body requires some 9'5 ozs. of this latter 
element. How is the extra 7 ozs. of carbon a day to be supplied ? 
The full amount (9*5 ozs.) of carbon might (as proteids contain 

53 per cent, of carbon) be obtained from -^ = 18 ozs. of 

proteid. 

We see, therefore, that from a daily allowance of 18 ozs. of 
proteid matter, with water, mineral salts, and fresh air in 
addition, all the food necessary to support life may be obtained. 

There are, however, grave objections to such a diet, for 18 ozs. 

of proteid contain = 2*9 ozs. of nitrogen ; and we have 

IOO 

seen that only f oz. of nitrogen is necessary. The surplus 
nitrogen is not only useless, but actually injurious, on account 
of the great strain which it throws upon the digestive organs 
and the kidneys. 

It is much more economical, as regards both health and cost, 
to obtain the extra 7 ozs. of carbon from non- nitrogenous foods : 
fats and carbohydrates. Both consist of carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen ; but whereas fats contain roughly about 80 per cent, of 
carbon, carbohydrates contain about 40 per cent. only. 

The 7 ozs. of carbon which we have still to provide may 



xxv THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 303 



therefore be obtained from either ' lo . = 8| ozs. of fats, or 

? x I0 = 17^ ozs. of carbohydrates. Either would suffice, but 

4 
a mixture of the two is generally found to be more acceptable 

to the palate. Such a mixture might, for example, consist of 
2 ozs. of fat and 14 ozs. of carbohydrates. 

The importance of a mixed diet. It is plain, then, 
that although proteids alone will provide all the organic matter 
necessary for the maintenance of life, an ideal diet will consist 
of proteids, fats, carbohydrates, and salts in such proportions 
that the necessary elements are provided (i) without any undue 
strain being thrown upon any part of the system ; and (2) in an 
attractive and palatable form. 

A typical meal. These conditions may be fulfilled in a 
very large number of ways, which are well exemplified in the 
everyday meal of beef, potatoes, and bread. The proteids are 
supplied by the myosin in the lean of the beef, and by a con- 
stituent of the bread which is known as gluten (p. 209). The 
rest of the beef provides the fat; and the potatoes, with the 
larger part of the bread, consist chiefly of carbohydrates. The 
mineral matters, or salts, are taken partly as condiments (e.g., 
common salt), and partly unconsciously with the beef, bread, 
etc., of which they are constituents. The presence of mineral 
matter in beef was seen in Expt. 295. The water, whether 
adulterated or not, which is drunk during the course of the day, 
accounts almost wholly for the quantity which is normally given 
off from the body, although a small proportion is formed by 
the oxidation (p. 144) of the hydrogen occurring in all proteids, 
fats, and carbohydrates. 

It has been found that a person can extract a larger pro- 
portion of nutrients from a mixed diet than he can from a diet 
which consists of a single food-material, although, judged from 
conposition alone, the latter may appear quite as nutritious. 

Interchangeable foods. The selection of foods to form 
mixed diets is rendered easier by the fact that certain foods 
appear to be largely interchangeable. Fats and carbohydrates, 
for example, seem to serve the same purpose in the body, 
although the fat yields i\ times the energy supplied by the 
same weight of carbohydrate Among the carbohydrates, again, 



304 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 

sugar may usefully replace starch in certain circumstances 
where the latter cannot be digested with sufficient ease or 
rapidity. Infants, who are yet unable to digest starch, obtain 
their necessary carbohydrate from milk-sugar (p. 287). An 
ordinary lump of table sugar has about the same food-value 
as an ounce of potato. t 

The great similarity between meat and peas, beans, etc., as 
regards the amount of proteids present, has already been re- 
ferred to (p. 276). These seeds may, therefore, to a great extent 
be eaten in the place of meat. 

Two and a half quarts of skim-milk have almost exactly 
the same food-value, and contain nearly the same amount of 
proteid, as is possessed by one pound of steak. 

The different needs of the body. It seems at first sight 
that there are two distinct results of the activities of the body : 
(i) the wasting away of its tissues, and (2) the liberation of heat 
and other forms of energy. Adopting this view, it would appear 
that food is taken for two distinct purposes : (i) to replenish 
the parts of the body which have been used up, and (2) to 
provide a new supply of fuel. It was formerly thought that 
proteids were especially concerned with the formation of new 
tissue, and that the duty of fats and carbohydrates was to act as 
fuel for keeping up the supply of heat. Thus proteids were called 
tissue-formers, and fats and carbohydrates heat-producers. 

This view is now known to be an erroneous one. The 
production of heat is not a separate phenomenon, but is a 
necessary result of the oxidation, and consequent wasting, of 
the substance of the muscles and other tissues. Moreover, fats 
and carbohydrates, as well as proteids, play an important part in 
building up new tissue ; and the distinction between nitrogen- 
ous and non-nitrogenous food-stuffs is lost so soon as they have 
become built up into the substance of the tissues. Both are 
tissue-formers, and, since heat is produced by the oxidation 
of the tissues, both are heat-producers. 

It is, however, admitted that certain classes of foods are more 
suitable than others for certain conditions of life. Fats are 
especially useful in cold countries. Sugar in small doses is of 
great assistance at times of unusually great muscular labour. 
People of sedentary habits require food containing a large 
proportion of proteids. 



xxv THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 305 



Comparative digestibility. In selecting foods it is 
necessary to attach great importance to the ease or otherwise 
with which the body can bring their ingredients into a soluble 
and diffusible form. In other words the digestibility of the 
food, as well as its composition, must be considered. Compara- 
tively little precise information upon this point has yet been 
obtained, but a few general conclusions may be mentioned. 

Animal foods are, as a rule, more easily digested than those of 
vegetable origin, and this applies particularly to proteids. A 
man in ordinary health can generally digest practically all the 
proteid matter of meat and fish, whereas 25 per cent, of the 
proteids of peas and beans may remain undigested, and thus be 
wasted. This may be largely explained by the fact that the 
vegetable food-stuffs are usually enclosed in hard cell-walls, 
upon which the digestive juices cannot act (Figs. 162 to 164). 
Carbohydrates, such as sugar and starch, are easily digested 
when the walls in which they are enclosed are ruptured by 
cooking. Lean meats appear to be more easily digested than 
fatty meats, and beef is slightly more digestible than lamb 
or fish. Fresh fish is more thoroughly digested than salt 
fish. 

Condiments and stimulants. It is customary to add 
to food various condiments and sauces. With the exception of 
salt, which is a necessity, these must be regarded as luxuries of 
very minor importance to healthy persons : digestion taking 
place as well in their absence. With invalids, however, the 
case is different, and the use of condiments is often a power- 
ful aid to digestion by stimulating the flow of the digestive 
juices. 

Tea and coffee, and meat extract (p. 278), are stimulants not 
foods. Taken in moderation, they are without injurious effects 
on digestion. 

Fruits and vegetables. Potatoes, turnips, carrots, beet- 
roots, bananas, etc., are foods in the true sense of the word, but 
cabbage, lettuce, tomatoes, apples, oranges, strawberries, etc., 
derive their value chiefly from the mineral salts and organic 
acids (such as malic, citric, and tartaric acids) which they con- 
tain. Some of these compounds have considerable medicinal 
value. 

EXP. HYG. x 



306 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 



SUMMARY. 

The human body consists of (i) water (oxygen and hydrogen) ; 
(2) organic matter (carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and 
phosphorus) ; (3) mineral matter (calcium, sulphur, phosphorus, 
chlorine, sodium, potassium, iron, magnesium, etc.). 

Food is eaten to supply the elements which the body excretes as 
the waste products of its activity. It also acts as a ///<?/ by building up 
tissues which are afterwards oxidised. 



Food 



Refuse 



Eatable part 



Water 



Proteids 



Nutrients ' Fals 



j Carbohydrates 
V. Mineral matters. 



Digestion consists in rendering food soluble and diffusible. 

Proteids are digested (i) in the stomach by the gastric juice ; (2) in 
the small intestine by the pancreatic juice. 

l<\its are digested in the small intestine by the pancreatic juice and 
bile. 

Starch is digested (i) partly in the mouth by the ptyalin of the 
saliva ; (2) in the small intestine by the pancreatic juice. 

The absorption of digested foods into the blood takes place chiefly 
in the small intestine. 

Although proteids supply all the necessary elements of food, a mixed 
diet is most economical, and is also very advisable from considerations 
of health. 

All foods are /issue-forwers, and therefore all are heat-producers. 

Animal foods are, as a rule, more easily digested than vegetable foods. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XXV. 

1. What is the action of saliva on starch? How can you prove that 
this action really takes place ? 

2. What is the action of pepsin on proteids in the presence of a very 
dilute solution of hydrochloric acid ? Where does this action occur in 
the body ? 

3. About how much nitrogen and how much carbon does an average 
man give off in a day ? In what form are they respectively excreted ? 

4. 'What are the objections to a diet consisting wholly of lean meat ? 

5. Draw up a table showing the food materials contained in a meal 
of bread, meat, and potatoes. 

6. What do you mean by digestion ? Describe the digestion of a 
meal of bread and milk. 

7. How is the heat of the body maintained ? 



xxv THE HUMAN FRAME. DIET 307 

8. Define : organ, tissue, food, and ferment. Give examples. 

9. In what sense is food a fuel ? 

10. What is a standard diet ? Give two examples of a simple meal 
containing all the constituents of food in about the right proportion. 
(1897.) 

11. Give a classification of food substances, with examples, and 
explain their respective uses. (1897.) 

12. What is the composition of beef? In what respects would a 
diet of i Ib. of bread and 12 oz. of meat per day be deficient ? 

What amount of proximate alimentary principles should be supplied 
in a diet for ordinary work? (1898.) 

13. What are the functions of nitrogenous food ? Mention the chief 
nitrogenous principles to be met with in food, and their relative values 
as nutrients. How much nitrogen is required by an adult at ordinary 
work? (1894.) 

14. What is the general composition of fat, and how does it differ 
from that of sugar ? What is meant by the digestion of fat ; when and 
how does it take place. (1895.) 

15. What are the essential constituents of a diet for ordinary work ? 
Explain the functions fulfilled by each constituent, and how far one 
constituent may replace another. (1899.) 

1 6. What are the chief mineral salts contained in food ? Explain 
their general uses. (1897.) 



X 2 



CHAPTER XXVI 
MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 



REFERENCE has been made in earlier chapters to minute 
forms of life present in the air, in milk, etc., which grow and 

multiply with great rapidity when 
they gain access to liquids which 
afford suitable food materials. 
Yeast (Fig. 1 53), the vinegar organ- 
ism (Fig. 158), and the lactic acid 
bacterium (Fig. 166) thrive in weak 
solutions of sugar, in weak alcohol, 
and in milk respectively. 

By the use of specially prepared 
food substances or nutrient media, 
many other bacteria may be en- 
couraged to grow and form colonies. 
Such a food material is meat-broth. 

THE CULTIVATION OF 
BACTEEIA 




FIG. 172. A beaker containing 
several culture tubes. 



318. Nutrient Gelatine. Obtain a 
dozen test-tubes of nutrient gelatine 
(Fig. 172) from a dealer in bacterio- 
logical apparatus. This substance is 
meat-broth, or bouillon, to which about 

10 per cent, of the best gelatine has been added, in order to keep it 
solid at the ordinary temperature of the room. Put one of the tubes, 
without removing the plug of cotton-wool with which it is closed, into 
water, and gently heat the water by means of a small Bunsen flame. 
Determine the temperature at which the gelatine melts. 




CH. xxvi MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 309 

319. Petri's dishes. Obtain a few Petri's dishes. These are 
round glass dishes (Fig. 173), about three inches in diameter and half an 
inch deep, with glass lids fitted over them. 

Wash the dishes and lids, dry them, //// on the lids, and heat them 
for an hour in the air-oven at a temperature of 170 C. All forms of 
life which might have been present on the 
dishes are thus destroyed, and the dishes^ 
are therefore said to have been sterilised. 

So long as the lids are left on, the in- 
sides of the dishes will remain sterile. 

320. Presence of bacteria in air. 
Melt the gelatine of one of the tubes, take 
out the cotton-wool, and pour the gelatine 

into a Petri's dish. Leave off the lid, and JT IG T73 ._ Petri's dish. 

let the dish remain with the gelatine which 

soon solidifies thus exposed to the air for 

an hour. Then put on the lid, and keep the dish for two or three days 

at a temperature of from 18 C. to 20 C. 

A number of specks will appear in the gelatine. These are colonies 
of bacteria. Each one has been formed by the multiplication of a 
single cell which dropped in from the air. While the colonies may 
be seen by the naked eye, the individual bacteria of which they are 
composed can only be distinguished by using very high powers of the 
microscope. 

Fig. 1 74 shows the appearance of colonies of bacteria when moderately 
magnified. 

321. Bacteria unable to pass through plugs of cotton-wool. The 
fact that the gelatine in the tubes remains clear, shows that bacteria are 
prevented by the plugs of cotton-wool from getting into the tubes from 
the air. 

322. Presence of bacteria in water. Melt the gelatine in a tube, 
set the cotton-wool plug on fire, and immediately put out the flame by 
pushing the wool further into the tube, using for this purpose a pair of 
forceps (tweezers) which have been sterilised immediately before by 
passing them through the Bunsen flame. Now take out the plug by 
means of the forceps, and quickly add about one cubic centimetre of tap- 
water to the gelatine. Fire the cotton-wool again, and push it, still 
burning, into the upper part of the tube, when the flame, of course, goes 
out. This treatment keeps the mouth of the tube sterile. 

Gently shake the tube, to mix the water and gelatine, avoiding the 
formation of froth, and not allowing the liquid to wet the cotton-wool 



Take out the plug, and quickly pour the contents of the tul>e into a 
sterile Petri's dish, raising the lid slightly at one side to allow the liquid 
to be added. 

Close the lid at once, and keep the dish for a couple of days at a 
temperature from 18 C. to 20 C. 

Colonies make their appearance in the gelatine. These are formed 
by the multiplication of the bacteria which were present in the tap- 
water. 



3io 



EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



CHAP. 



323. Bacteria absent from boiled water. Half fill an ordinary 
flask with similar tap-water, and boil it gently for an hour. Whilst it is 
still boiling, thrust a burning plug of cotton-wool into the neck of the 
flask, and at once remove the burner from beneath the flask. 

Allow the water to cool, and then, by means of a sterilised pipette, 
add about one cubic centimetre of it to a tube of gelatine (as in Expt, 




FIG. 174. Colonies of Bacteria. <z, &, c, and d each show one colony; e shows 
three large colonies and several small ones. (Reproduced from photographs 
taken by Mr. J. E. Barnard.) 

322), and keep the mixture in a Petri's dish at about 20 C. for two 
days. 

The gelatine will probably remain clear. 

324. Bacteria present in soil. Add a few grains of fine garden soil 
to a tube of liquefied gelatine, mix, and keep in a Petri's dish a* 
before. 

Colonies of bacteria form in the gelatine. 

325. Bacteria absent from ignited soil. Ignite a little of the same 




xxvi MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 311 

soil in a porcelain crucible for fifteen minutes (Fig. 175). Cool the 
crucible with the lid on, and then test the soil for bacteria as in the last 
experiment. 

No colonies of bacteria are formed. 

326. Bacteria present in milk. Add a drop of milk to a tube of 
liquefied gelatine, observing the usual precautions, and keep this in a 
Petri's dish for two days at about 

20 C. 

Colonies of bacteria are formed. 

327. Bacteria absent from boiled 
milk. Raise the temperature of 
some milk to the boiling point, plug 
the neck of the flask with burning 
cotton-wool, and cool. Test a drop 
with gelatine as in the last experi- 
ment. 

The gelatine probably remains 
free from colonies. 

Bacteria. The air we 
breathe, the water we drink, 
and the soil beneath our feet, are 
swarming with myriads of tiny FlG- I?5 ._ S oil may be sterilised by 

living things, which exert an heating it with the Bunsen flame. 

enormous influence upon the 

welfare of the whole human race. To the services of some of 
them we owe not only many luxuries, but even the possibility 
of life ; while others are responsible for most, if not all, of the 
infectious diseases to which we are subject. 

The possessors of these boundless powers for good and evil 
are extremely minute plants : each individual consisting of one 
cell. They vary greatly in size, but not even the largest can be 
seen with the naked eye ; while the smallest known require 
magnifying by the microscope to about a thousand times their 
real length, breadth, and thickness to render them visible. The 
bacteria shown in Figs. 176 and 177 have been magnified to 
1 500 times their real size. 

These little plants are called bacteria, or microbes. When a 
bacterium is full-grown, it multiplies by breaking up into two or 
more parts, each of which becomes a complete bacterium. As 
some bacteria become adult in half an hour or less, it is plain 
that, in favourable circumstances, reproduction takes place 
with enormous rapidity. As a matter of fact, one individual 
can thus give rise to about 17,000,000 in twenty-four hours. 



512 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

When the supply of food runs short, or the surroundings 
become in other respects unfavourable, many bacteria form 
bodies called spores (Fig. 176), which are very difficult to 
kill. They remain patiently in this stage until the hard times 
are over, and then, with unimpaired vigour, resume their 
ordinary mode of life. 

Putrefaction and decay. It is well known that when a 
piece of meat is left freely exposed to the air it soon becomes 




FIG. 176. Bacteria of Tetanus (lockjaw). (X 1500.) The rounded bodies at the 
ends of the bacteria are spores; they can withstand boiling for five minutes. 
These bacteria of tetanus occur abundantly in garden soil. (Reproduced from 
a photograph taken by Mr. J. R. Barnard.) 

offensive. The change is due to the activities of myriads of 
microbes, which, by using the meat as food, break it up, particle 
by particle, into simple and harmless compounds. Some of 
these compounds are gases which pass into the air ; others 
are at last washed into the soil. The change is largely one 
of oxidation, and is very similar to what would be produced 
by burning the meat. 

The services which bacteria perform in decomposing and 



xxvi MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 313 

thus clearing away accumulations of rubbish can scarcely be 
over-estimated. 

That the putrefaction of organic matter is really due to 
minute and air-borne forms of life was conclusively proved by 
Pasteur and Tyndall about the middle of the nineteenth century. 
It was shown that if well-boiled broth is kept in vessels from 
which the air is either wholly excluded or by plugging the 
mouth of the vessel with cotton-wool, for example so admitted 



- ' \ 

* " ~ 



FK;. 177. Bacteria of Cholera, (x 1500.) (Reproduced from a photograph 
taken by Mr. J. E. Barnard.) 

that all floating particles are arrested, no putrefaction occurs, 
and the broth remains sweet for an indefinite time. 

Sterilisation. During the boiling of the broth all forms 
of life which were originally present in it are destroyed. Broth 
so treated is said to be sterilised. 

The presence of bacteria in water, soil, and milk and other 
articles of food may be easily proved by means of nutrient 
gelatine^ which may be obtained from dealers in bacteriological 
apparatus. It is usually supplied in test-tubes, which are sealed 
from dust (and therefore from bacteria) by plugs of cotton-wool 



314 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

(Fig. 172). The substance consists of broth, which has been 
mixed with about 10 percent, of the best gelatine and sterilised. 
The nutrient gelatine is melted, mixed with a little of the 
substance to be examined for bacteria, and then poured into a 
"Petri's dish" (Fig. 173) which has been previously sterilised 
by heating to 170 C. for an hour. The dish covered with its 
lid is kept for two days at a temperature of from 18 C. to 
20 C. At the end of that time the presence of bacteria is 
shown by the appearance of specks in the gelatine. These 
specks consist of colonies of bacteria. Several such colonies, 
as seen under low magnifying powers, are shown in Fig. 174. 

Harmless and injurious bacteria. Such micro- 
organisms as yeast, the vinegar organism, and the lactic acid 
bacterium, which have been referred to in previous chapters, are 
harmless ; but others set up changes in food which result in the 
production of deadly poisons called ptomaines. These com- 
pounds are found from time to time in meat, fish, cheese, ice- 
cream, etc. Still other bacteria are the cause of the infectious 
diseases, and, by gaining access to the bodies of healthy persons, 
may be the means of spreading the diseases. 

Necessity for sterilising food. Injurious bacteria are 
most commonly distributed in water, milk, and other articles of 
food, and too much care cannot be taken to avoid using food 
which is liable to such contamination. The most satisfactory 
means of destroying bacteria in food and water is to heat these 
latter to the temperature of boiling water. Suspected water 
ought always to be boiled before being drunk. The "flat" 
taste produced by boiling may be removed by afterwards pour- 
ing the water backwards and forwards from one vessel to 
another, so as to mix it thoroughly with air. Milk has so often 
been proved to have conveyed disease, that it is always safest to 
raise its temperature to the boiling point before it is used for 
food. 

Tinned foods. Properly prepared tinned foods are, from 
the method of their preparation, sterile. The tins of cooked 
food, with one small aperture, are surrounded by a solution of 
zinc chloride, which boils at a higher temperature than water. 
The tins are heated in this, and when all the air has been ex- 
pelled by steam, are sealed by a drop of solder, and cooled. If 
the heating has been sufficient, the contents will remain free from 



xxvi MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 315 

decomposition for any length of time. Small tins are more 
likely than large ones to have been thoroughly heated through, 
and on that account are to be preferred. Tins which have 
bulged out should be rejected, as this indicates decomposition 
and the formation of gas in the contents. 

When a tin is opened, the contents should be at once removed 
to a glass, porcelain, or earthenware vessel. Tinned fish should 
be eaten at once. 

Preservation of food. Food may be preserved for an 
indefinite period if it be kept frozen, since cold destroys some 
bacteria, and suspends the activities of the rest. Meat is, for 
example, brought from Australia and New Zealand in ships 
fitted with refrigerating chambers. 

Moisture is necessary for the active life of bacteria, and 
therefore dried meats and fish may be kept for a long time 
without undergoing decomposition. 

Salt and saltpetre and even sugar are widely used in " curing " 
meat and fish. The action of a strong solution of sugar in pre- 
venting fermentation is also taken advantage of in preserving 
fruits, etc. Borax, boracic acid, salicylic acid, and other sub- 
stances are also used for the preservation of various articles 
of food. They are injurious if present in more than small 
quantities. 

Necessity for cleanliness. Disease and dirt are closely 
connected. Accumulations of refuse, grease, etc., form the most 
favourable surroundings for injurious bacteria ; and bacteria 
cannot be more effectually exterminated than by scrupulous 
attention to the cleanliness of the person and the surroundings. 
Cooking-utensils, ovens and stoves, etc., especially, should be 
carefully cleaned as soon as they have been used. The great 
value of water, soda, and soap for removing dirt and grease has 
already (p. 267) been referred to. It is worthy of notice that 
light has a very injurious effect upon bacteria. As much light 
as possible ought to be admitted to all the rooms of a house. 

Prevention of contagion. The transmission of disease 
may be largely avoided by taking care that the patient is 
properly isolated, and that all clothing, utensils, etc., which have 
been used in the sick-room are thoroughly disinfected. 

So far as possible, all clothing should be well boiled. Gar- 
ments, bedding, etc., which would be spoiled by this treatment. 



316 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE CHAP. 

should be heated in the sterilisers which most municipal author- 
ities possess. In a common form, the garment is subjected to 
the action of steam under pressure. This permeates the pores 
of the cloth, and destroys all germs without charring or other- 
wise injuring the fabric. 

Utensils ought to be disinfected by means of a solution of 
corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, Condy's fluid, or other 
germicide. 

Rooms in which serious infectious diseases have occurred 
ought to be fumigated by the vapour of formic aldehyde, 
chlorine gas, or the fumes of burning sulphur. Of these, perhaps 
formic aldehyde, which has come into use comparatively re- 
cently, is the most effective and the least objectionable. 

Disinfection and fumigation are usually carried out by 
qualified officers of the local sanitary authority. 

SUMMARY. 

Bacteria are minute, one-celled plants, which arc found almost 
everywhere. They are destroyed by heat. 

Some bacteria cause putrefaction of organic matter. Poisons called 
ptomaines are often produced during the process. Food which has 
begun to decompose should not be used for food. 

Infectious diseases are due to certain bacteria which gain access to 
the body. 

Sterilisation of food is the destruction of the bacteria present in it. 
Food may be sterilised by boiling. Small tins of tinned meat, fish, etc., 
arc more likely to be sterile than large ones. 

Food is preserved (i) by being sealed from air after sterilisation by 
heat ; (2) by freezing ; (3) by the addition of substances which prevent 
the growth of bacteria. 

The propagation of bacteria and the spread of disease are best 
prevented by cleanliness and light. 



EXERCISES ON CHAPTER XXVI. 

1. What arc bacteria? Where do they occur, and how are they 
propagated ? 

2. How would you prove the presence of living particles in (a) air, 
(b) milk? 

3. What is the cause of putrefaction ? What changes occur in the 
composition of a piece of meat when it putrefies ? 

4. What are ptomaines ? In what articles of food have they been 
known to occur ? 



xxvi MICRO-ORGANISMS AND THEIR WORK 317 



5. Why should food be sterilised ? How would you sterilise (a) 
water, (b) milk ? 

6. Describe the preparation of tinned foods. What precautions 
should be observed in their use ? 

7. Why do frozen meat and salt fish keep longer than fresh meat and 
fish? 

8. Why is sugar used for preserving fruit ? 

9. Why is it necessary to clean cooking utensils immediately after 
using ? How should the cleaning be done ? 

10. How are clothing and rooms disinfected ? 



TYPICAL EXAMINATION PAPERS. 

BOARD OF EDUCATION. 

ELEMENTARY SCIENCE OF COMMON LIFE. 

INSTRUCTIONS. 

you are permitted to answer only eight questions, oj which six must 
be taken from division A and two from either B or C. 



A. 

1. How would you show that an "empty" bottle is full of air? 
What are the effects of heat and of pressure upon air, and by what 
means can alterations in the temperature and pressure of the atmosphere 
be ascertained ? 

2. If a colourless liquid were given you, by what tests would you 
prove it to be water ? 

3. Describe carefully what you see when a candle burns. What are 
the principal changes that take place in the candle-flame, and by what 
experiments could you prove that they occur ? 

4. If 20 '5 cubic centimetres of a solution of common salt in water 
weigh 23*5 grams, what is the specific gravity of the solution? 

5. Describe a common thermometer and state how you would proceed 
to test its accuracy. 

6. What is limestone? What substances are obtained when lime- 
stone is (a) heated strongly in the air, (b) acted on by hydrochloric acid, 
and how do they differ from it in their behaviour towards water ? 

7. How is coke made, and of what does it chiefly consist ? In what 
respects does a coke fire differ from a coal fire, and how is the difference 
explained ? What does coal ash consist of? 

8. Describe the principal characteristics of the two gases, carbon 
dioxide and carbon monoxide, and how each gas is recognised when 
pure. 

What important difference is to be noticed in the effect of these two 
gases on men and animals ? 

9. By what tests do you distinguish an acid from an alkali ? 
Classify into acid and alkaline the following substances : spirit of salt, 

washing soda, ammonia, common soap, slaked lime, borax. 



EXAMINATION PAPERS 319 



B. 

10. If you were asked to classify ah elementary substance as a metal 
or non-metal, what experiments would you make? 

1 1. What is the cause of the tarnishing of a copper kettle or saucepan 
when placed on a clear fire ? Why is it necessary to avoid keeping 
vegetable matters for any long time in copper pans ? 

12. Name the oils used for illuminating purposes, and describe what 
would happen if each in turn were boiled- with a solution of caustic 
potash or soda. 

13. How would you distinguish from one another bars of cast iron, 
wrought iron, and steel ? 

C. 

14. From what sources is sugar obtained ? Give an ^outline of the 
process by which it is made. 

1 5. What substances are produced from sugar by fermentation with 
yeast, and how can these be separated and identified ? 

16. How is common hard soap made? Explain the effect of adding 
some vinegar or other acid to a solution of soap. 

17. How can starch be obtained from flour, and how would you show 
that substances obtained by a similar process from rice and potatoes are 
probably identical in composition with wheat starch ? 



II. 

A. 

1. What is meant by specific gravity? Calculate the specific gravity 
of a liquid 30 c. c. of which weigh 27 grams. 

2. By what experiments would you prove that water is composed of 
nothing but hydrogen and oxygen ? 

3. How would you obtain nitrogen from air and distinguish it from 
carbon dioxide ? 

4. What properties are common to acids? Show that these are 
exhibited by the volatile product obtained on heating saltpetre with 
sulphuric acid . 

5. How are the degrees o and 100 on the scale of a Centigrade 
thermometer determined ? State the corresponding temperatures on a 
Fahrenheit thermometer. 

6. When steam is decomposed by red hot iron, how could you prove 
that one constituent of the steam combines with the iron ? 

7. What experiments would you make in order to show that atmo- 
spheric air contains a practically constant proportion of oxygen ? 

8. If supplied with a nearly white powder supposed to be slaked 
lime, what experiments would you make to determine the question ? 
How would lime be distinguished from lime-stone ? 

9. Draw a diagram of a Bunsen burner and explain its action. 



320 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



B. 

10. Why is iron suitable and lead unsuitable for the manufacture of 
saucepans ? 

11. Why is it that coal gas does not explode when burned in the 
ordinary way or in a jar turned mouth downwards ? What conditions 
are necessary for an explosion to occur ? 

12. What are the following alloys composed of: silver coinage, 
brass, pewter, solder ? Describe characters or tests by which the con. 
stituents of one of them may be recognised. 

13. What is iron rust ? Give any explanation you can of the process 
of rusting. 

C- 

14. What is the substance that renders vinegar acid ? How could 
you separate it from vinegar, and prove that it enters into the com- 
position of sugar of lead ? 

15. What happens when a fat is boiled with caustic soda, and when 
an acid is added to the product? What is the cause of the curd 
produced when soap is used with hard water ? 

1 6. How would you prove the presence of carbon and hydrogen in 
such a substance as sugar, and of carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen in 
cheese ? 

17. What experiments would be necessary to demonstrate the 
presence in ordinary beer of (a) carbon dioxide, (b) alcohol, and 
\c) sugar ? 



Ill 



1. Write down the equivalents in English weights and measures 01 
(a) 760 millimetres, (b) 10 cubic decimetres, (c) 2^ kilograms. 

2. A block of wood measuring 10x7x4 centimetres weighs 252 
grams. What is the specific gravity of the wood ? 

3. How do you explain the presence of water on the inside of windows 
during a cold night while everything else in the room is apparently dry 
and warm ? 

4. Describe a common thermometer and the process of making the 
scale of degrees marked upon it. 

5. Explain the production of flame in an ordinary domestic fire. Why 
does a coke fire produce very little flame ? 

6. Explain the difference between hard and soft water, and describe 
two methods for softening hard water. 

7. A white crystalline powder is supposed to be either borax or 
washing soda ; what tests could you apply to distinguish these salts 
from each other, and how would both be distinguished from common 
salt? 

8. What is quicklime? How is it obtained? What happens when 



EXAMINATION PAPERS 321 

water is added to it, and when it is exposed to the air for a long 
time ? 

9. Describe two experiments to prove that air expelled from the lungs 
contains the same gas as that produced by burning carbon in oxygen. 

B. 

10. What is an alloy, and how are such substances made? Name 
four alloys in common use, and the constituents of each. 

1 1. Why is sulphur classified as a non-metal and copper as a metal ? 

12. Distinguish between the results obtained when coal is burned 
freely in the air, and when it is heated in retorts as at the gasworks. 

13. Describe the effects of heating lead and copper strongly in the air. 
Would it make any difference if they were surrounded by coal gas 
during the process ? 

C. 

14. From what sources is acetic acid obtained ? Why is it called an 
acid ? 

15. How can it be proved that gluten or albumen contains carbon, 
hydrogen and nitrogen ? 

1 6. What products are formed by boiling fat with caustic soda, and 
how are they separated from each other ? Describe the chief properties 
of each. 

17. Explain the use of yeast in brewing and in bread-making. 



IV. 
A. 

1. A gallon of water weighs 10 pounds ; calculate the number of grams 
of water and the number of litres in a gallon. 

2. How many yards are there in a kilometre, and how many metres 
in an English mile ? 

3. Describe experiments to show that solids, liquids, and gases expand 
when heated. If a corked bottle containing only air is made hot the 
cork may be driven out ; why is this? 

4. Why does ice form first on the surface of a pool of water in frosty 
weather ? 

5. The ground being covered with snow, and the sun shining, pieces 
of black and white cloth are laid on the snow ; describe and explain die 
effect in each case. 

6. What are the chief gases in the atmosphere, and how can each be 
obtained separately in a pure state ? Describe the effect of each on a 
lighted candle. 

7. Why is sea water so much more salt than river water ? How would 
you make pure water from sea- water ? Draw a diagram of the apparatus 
required. 

8. How arc chemical compounds distinguished from mixtures of the 
same materials ? A mixture of 7 parts of iron filings, with 4 parts of 



322 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



sulphur has the same composition as iron sulphide ; illustrate your 
answer by reference to this case. 

9. How would you show that the gas evolved from a lime kiln is the 
same as that which is produced by burning charcoal in air ? Is it right 
to speak of ' ' burning " lime ? 

10. How would you distinguish by tests, common salt from 
washing soda, slaked lime from quicklime, and slaked lime from 
chalk-? 

B. 

11. Enumerate the constituents of brass, pewter, silver money, and 
describe the chief properties of the separate metals. 

12. Under what conditions does iron rust, and how can rusting be 
prevented ? 

13. How would you test a sample of paraffin oil to see if it was fit 
for use in a lamp ? 

14. If an escape of coal gas is suspected in a house, how would you 
proceed to find out the point of escape, and to stop it ? 



C. 

15. Explain the difference in composition between a fat and a carbo- 
hydrate, such as common sugar. What experiments could be made to 
illustrate the difference ? 

1 6. Make a drawing of the appearance of any one kind of starch 
under the microscope. What happens if starch is mixed with (a) cold 
water, (b] boiling water, (c) infusion of malt ? 

17. How could you prove the presence of alcohol in beer, and how 
could you find out, approximately, the amount present ? 

1 8. How could you test for nitrogen in an organic substance ? Men- 
tion three or four important articles of food which contain nitrogen, and 
would, therefore, answer to this test. 



UNIVERSITY OF LONDON. 

JUNIOR SCHOOL EXAMINATION. 

[Six questions only are to be attempted.] 

i Soap lathers en~ ; iy in some kiuds of water and in others with 
difficulty only. Explain this difference as fully as you can. How could 
water in which soap will not lather he changed into water in which soap 
lathers easily ? 

2. What experiments would you perform to find out if the air in 
which a candle burns undergoes any change ? 

3. Describe the properties of white of egg and the change which 
it undergoes on heating. To what class of foods does this substance 
belong ? Give a reason for your answer. 

4. Vou are directed to superintend the boiling of a leg of mutton for 
dinner. Explain how you would proceed, and give reasons for the pre- 
cautions you would adopt. 

5. Bread nas been called "the Staft of Life." Account as well as 
you can for this name, explaining what it contains and why it is valuable 
as a food. 

6. Name six articles of food which contain a great deal of starch. 
Why are these foods cooked before being eaten ? What changes does 
starch undergo in the human body ? 

7. Describe a satisfactory way of ventilating a sitting-room and 
explain why ventilation is necessary. 

8. What part, if any, of its food does a green plant obtain from the 
air ? In what form and in wh it circumstances is such food taken in ? 

9 Write a short essay on " Putrefacti m.' 5 

10. Explain as fully as you can the importance of Oxygen to animals 
and plants. 

COLLEGE OF PRECEPTORS. 

CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION. (THIRD CLASS.) 

[Not more than Six questions are to be attempted.'} 

1. What do you understand by a unit ? What would you consider 
suitable units for the measurement of the weight of a small glass bead, 
the volume of a lead shot, and the area of a grass lawn respectively ? 

2. Give an account of the obvious properties of common clay, and 
point out the properties which make clay of commercial value. 



324 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 



3. On a sheet of cardboard a figure bounded by an irregular curved 
line is drawn. How would you determine the exact area of the figure 
enclosed by the line ? 

4. Upon what conditions does the floating or sinking of a body in a 
liquid depend ? A substance of density I "24 sinks very slowly in a 
certain liquid, whilst a substance of density I "2.2. is observed 'ust to float 
on the same liquid. What inference can be drawn from these observa- 
tions as to the density of the liquid ? 

5. How would you arrange an experiment to show that heat is 
absorbed when ice melts ? 

6. Sketch an apparatus such as you would use for preparing pure 
water from sea-water, and fully describe its various parts. 

7 . What effect is produced on the composition of air by allowing iron 
to rust in it? Describe experiments you would make with the object of 
verifying your statement. 

8. Describe experiments which conclusively show that hydrogen is 
one of the constituents of water. 



TYPICAL QUESTIONS FROM 
OTHER EXAMINATION PAPERS. 

TEACHERS' CERTIFICATE 
EXAMINATION. 

1. Calculate the volume in litres of a cube whose edge is equal in 
length to the width of this Question Paper. Qive the weight in 
grammes of this volume of water. 

2. A porcelain weight of one pound breaks into two unequal frag- 
ments. How could you, without using a spring balance or ordinary 
balance, determine the weight of each fragment ? 

3. Explain how you would ascertain (i) the volume and (2) the 
specific gravity of an apple or potato. 

4. A glass bottle weighs 6 grammes and holds 25 grammes of water. 
Calculate the volume of the glass itself and the volume of the air 
displaced by the bottle when filled with water. 

[Specific gravity of glass 2 '5.] 

5. A nurse cleanses a doctor's thermometer, which reads up to 
105 F., in boiling-hot water. The doctor now finds that the thermo- 
meter is useless. Why is this ? 

6. Describe experiments which you have seen illustrating the conver- 
sion of (a) a solid into a gas ; (b) a liquid into a solid ; (c) a liquid into 
a gas. Describe what you have observed during each process. 
[Reference to any of the forms of water must be excluded from your 
answer. ] 

7. A saucer containing water is left to evaporate on a window-sill. 
Explain the atmospheric conditions which will favour or retard the 
iisappearance of the water. 



EXAMINATION PAPERS 325 



8. How would you show that air is a mixture, and not a compound, 
of oxygen and nitrogen ? How would you obtain nitrogen from air ? 
By what process can oxygen be obtained ? 

9. How would you show experimentally that one of the constituents 
of water is also a constituent of air ? 

10. Carbonic acid gas is allowed to bubble continuously through 
lime water. State what you may observe when this experiment is 
performed. On what natural appearances does such an experiment 
throw light ? 

11. What are the circumstances which make the air of a room 
unhealthy for breathing ? How can the conditions be met and 
improved ? 

12. Describe what may be observed when starch is strongly heated 
in a test-tube. What is the nature of the substance left,' and how 
would you identify it experimentally ? 

NATIONAL FROEBEL UNION. 

1. Why do some bodies float in water and some sink ? Why do iron 
ships float ? 

Describe any simple way in which you can show that a body weighs 
less in water than in air. 

2. How can you show (i) that air expands when heated ; (ii) that 
warm air, when surrounded by colder air, rises ; (iii) that air fills 
apparently empty vessels ? 

3. Explain scientifically the following line in Shelley's poem, " The 
Cloud " : 

" I [the cloud is speaking] change, but I cannot die." 

4. (i) What changes take place in the water of a pond during a very 
gradual change of temperature from about 45 to 28 Fahrenheit? 
(ii) What is meant by the boiling point of water ? By what conditions 
is the boiling point affected ? 

5. How can you make a simple mercury barometer ? Explain ho\v 
such an instrument can be used to measure the pressure of air, and can 
act as a weather glass. 

6. How would you regulate the ventilation and temperature of 
a small schoolroom (a) in summer, (b) in winter? 

7. Which do you consider the best for the heating of a schoolroom 
hot-air pipes, open fire-places, or closed stoves ? Give your reasons. 

8. What are the chief chemical constituents of the body, and in what 
form are they usually supplied in children's diet during the first ten 
years of life ? 

9. Mention the food principles necessary to good bodily nutrition. 
Which of these are the more costly ? In what forms of food can they 
be supplied economically to children of six years old ? 

10. What are the constituents of milk ? Why is milk food good for 
young children ? 

11. Enumerate the chief advantages obtained by the cooking cf food. 
Which forms of cookery are the most wholesome ? 



326 EXPERIMENTAL HYGIENE 

12. Briefly describe the changes which take place in a piece of meat 
\vhile it is undergoing digestion. 

13. What is digestion? What secretions take part in the process? 
What are nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous foodstuffs, and what part do 
they play in keeping the body in good health ? 

14. What are the Salivary Glands ? Where are they situated ? 
What effect has Saliva on the food ? 



ROYAL SANITARY INSTITUTE. 

1. What do you understand by the relative humidity of the atmo- 
sphere, and how is it measured ? Describe in detail any hygrometer 
with which you are acquainted, and the method of using it. 

2. What are the chief causes of air pollution. in large towns ? What 
measures are available for minimising the evil ? 

3. What do you understand by the terms " radiation," "conduction," 
and "convection"? Give examples as applied to heating rooms. 
Enumerate the various methods of warming rooms with which you are 
acquainted, and describe their advantages and disadvantages. 

4. Describe the advantages or disadvantages of open grates, closed 
stoves, and gas stoves as heating appliances for a schoolroom. 

5. Describe what happens when a fire is lighted in a room with door, 
windows, and ventilators closed, and state what follows when a 
ventilator near the ceiling in the wall farthest from the fire is opened in 
that room. 

6. What are draughts ? Give diagrams showing how draughts may 
arise in a class-room under various conditions, and particularly with all 
openings, doors, and windows closed. 

7. The air in a brewery and a workshop contains similar large 
percentages of carbon dioxide gas. Will they be equally detrimental to 
health ? State your reasons fully. 

8. Briefly describe the structure ol the lungs, and explain how the 
purification of the blood in the lungs is effected. 

9. In what way may milk convey infectious disease? and what 
precautions can be taken against infection in the house ? 

10. What in your opinion are the best methods of disinfecting (a) 
bedding, (b) a class-room, (c ) books and boots ? 



INDEX 



ABSORPTION, and radiation of 
heat, 72 ; effect of surface 
upon, 71 ; of food, 301 

Acetates, 255 ; action of sul- 
phuric acid on, 253 

Acetic acid, 252 ; action of iron 
on, 253 ; formation from 
alcohol, 256 ; formed by 
alcohol and oxygen, 254 ; 
glacial, 255 ; preparation of, 
254 ; properties of, 253 

Acid, oleic, 265 ; stearic, 265 

Air, active part of, 109 ; active 
part of, obtained from red 
lead, 123 ; active part of, 
other ways of obtaining, 
123 ; active part of, where 
to look for, 121 ; all round 
us, 93 : alteration of, when 
iron rusts, 106 ; always 
water vapour in, 98 ; amount 
of, inhaled, 164 ; as a food, 
296 ; becomes lighter when 
warmed, 94 ; character of, 
changed by breathing, 161 ; 
chemical composition of, 
109 ; chemical properties of, 
106; composition of, 121- 
133; "empty" vessels con- 
tain, 91 ; exerts pressure, 95 ; 
experiments depending upon 
pressure of, 93 ; has weight, 
91,94; inactive part of, 109, 
129, 130; moisture in, 97- 
102 ; upward pressure of, 
93 ; warm is lighter than 
cold, 92 

Albumin, 274 ; and its proper- 
ties, 272-282 ; effects of 
heat upon, 272 ; egg, 272 ; 
putrefaction of, 273 

Alcohol, amount in various 
beverages, 241 ; and alco- 
holic beverages, 233 ; carbon 
and hydrogen present in, 
234 ; composition of, 237 ; 
density of, 234 ; formation 
of, 237 ; formation of, from 
glucose, 234 ; in beer, 235 ; 
manufacture of, 241 ; pro- 
perties of, 233 ; recognised 
strengths of, 241; separation 
from water, 236 ; solvent 



power of, 234 ; value as a 

food, 242 

Area, measurement of, 6-n 
Argol, 260 
Arrowroot, 219 
Atmosphere, 91-102 ; pressure 

of, 91-97 

BACTERIA, cultivation of, 308; 
harmless and injurious, 314 ; 
in air, 309 ; in milk, 311 ; 
in soil, 310 ; in water, 309 ; 

Baking, changes caused by, 
248 

Balance, 23 ; principle of, 25 

Barometer, its use, 96 ; prin- 
ciple of, 93 

Beef-tea, 278 

Beer, and brewing, 239 

Bellows, action of, 93 

Body, human, composition of, 
293 ; different needs of, 304 ; 
maintenance of temperature 
of, 295 

Bran, 245 

Brandyj 240 

Bread, 245 ; a loaf of, 243-250 ; 
aerated, 248 ; appearance of 
new, 243 ; mineral matter in, 
244 ; unleavened, 243, 248 ; 
value as a food, 249 

Brewing, and beer, 239 

Brine, density of, 35 

Burette, 16 

Burner, Argand, 180 ; Bunsen, 
177, 181 ; fishtail and bats- 
wing, 181 ; forms of gas, 180 

Burning, all substances use up 
oxygen in, 119; and rust- 
ing, 105-120 

Butter, melting point of, 58 ; 
properties of, 284, 289 

CALCIUM CHLORIDE, takes 
moisture from air, 97, 98 

Canal, alimentary, 299 

Candle, burning of, 114-117, 
178 ; nothing is lost when it 
burns, 169 ; volume of air 
used up by, in burning, 115 

Capacity, British measure of, 
17 ; heat, 56-58 ; metric 
measure of, 20 



Caramel, 228 

Carbon, burning of, 161-166 ; 
increase of weight when 
burnt, 107-172 ; in organic 
substances, 161 

Carbon dioxide, 161-173 ; 
given off in breathing, 163 ; 
in air, 161 

Carpets, 8 

Cellulose, 216, 222 

Centimetre, cubic, 14 

Cereals, use of, as food, 250 

Chalk, fur of kettle compared 
with, 156 

Cheese, 290 

Cleanliness, necessity for, 315 

Cleansing, 267 

Coal, distillation of, 174 

Coal gas, 174-184 ; burning 
of, 117-119 ; changes pro- 
duced by burning of, 117 ; 
composition of, 175 ; manu- 
facture of, 174 ; products 
formed when it is burnt, 
118 ; products of combus- 
tion of, 174 ; some proper- 
ties of, 174 

Colloids, 214 

Combustion, chemical, in 
body, 163 

Condensation, 86 

Condiments, 305 

Conduction, lowering of tem- 
perature by, 65 ; of heat, 
65-68 

Conductors, everyday uses of 
bad, 67 ; good and bad, 
67 

Contagion, prevention of, 315 

Convection, 68-70 ; in a 
liquid, 68 

Cooking, by dry heat, 278 ; 
methods of, 272-282 ; me- 
thods of, decided by com- 
position, 279 ; of peas and 
beans, 281 

Cream, formation of, 283, 288 

Cream of tartar, 260, 262 

Crystalloids, 214 

Crystals, formation of, 80 

Curds and whey, 286 

Currents, convection, how 
utilised, 191 



328 



INDEX 



DENSITY, 29-38 ; comparison 


tuents of, 208-222 ; food- 


ness of, 141 ; physical pro- 1 


of, 31 ; meaning of, 29, 30 ; 
of liquids, 32-34 ; standard 


stuffs present in, 246 ; 
wheat, 208 


perties of, 142 ; preparation ' 
of, 138-140 ; properties of, 1 


of, 31 


Food, as a fuel, 294 ; changes 


140-143 ; simple examii.;i- 


Dextrin, 215, 221 


in alimentary canal, 299 ; 


t ion of, 140; will not allow 


Diachylon, 268 


classification of, 295 ; daily 


things to burn in it, 142 ; 


Dialyser, 214 


supply, 301 ; definition of, 


will not combine with oxy- j 


Diastase, 217 


295 ; difference between ani- 


gen at ordinary tempera- | 


Diet, importance of mixed, 


mal and vegetable, 276 ; in- 


tures, 145 


.33 


terchangeable, 303 ; neces- 


Hydrometry, familiar in-i. 


Digestibility, comparative, 305 
Digestion and diet, 292-305 


sity for sterilising, 314 ; 
preservation of, 315 ; tinned, 


of, 36 ; principle of, 34-38 
Hygrometer, chemical, 101 ; 


Dish, Petri's, 309 


3 J 4. 


construction of, 101 


Distillation, 85-88 ; apparatus 


Fractions, decimal, 2 ; of an 




for, 87 ; of beer, 85 ; of 
water, 85 
Dough, 207, 209 ; separation 


inch, i ; of units of length, 5 
Furring, of kettles, 158 


ICE, melting point of, 58 : 
temperature of melting, 45 
Illumination and flame 


into constituents, 207 
Drams, and ounces, 24 


GASES, convection currents 
in, 69 ; diffusion of, 186, 


i 7 6-i8 4> 
Inch, cubic, 13 ; square, 6 


Drops, 15 


190 


Inches, and fractions, i 




Gelatine, nutrient, 308 


Iodine, solution of, 210 


EGG, no change in weight 


Gin, 241 


Iron, action of, upon water, 


when boiled, 273 


Glucose, a crystalloid, 214 ; 


135 ; burning of, in oxygen, 


Enzymes, 239 
Evaporation, 82-84 ; cooling 


properties of, 224, 230 
Gluten, 208-210; effects of 


129 ; increase in weight 
when it rusts, 105, 107 


produced by, 61, 82 ; differ- 


heat upon, 208 ; properties 




ence between boiling and, 
82 ; everyday examples of, 


of dry, 208 ; properties of 
wet, 208 ; value of, as food, 


JAR, graduated measuring, 15 


83 ; of different natural 


210 




waters, 148 ; produced by 
heat, 82 ; quiet, and boiling, 


Glycerine, 268 ; properties of 
266 


KILOGRAM, 27 ; and pound, 


84 ; rate of, 83 ; water)frozen 
by, 6 1 ; water in air due 


Gram, 27 ; and ounces, 24 
Grates, Gallon's, 200 ; Teale's, 


2 4 
Koumiss, 240 


to, 97 


198 ; which warm the in- 




Excretions, 293 


coming air, 199 


LACTOMETER, principle of, 


Expansion, 41 ; may indicate 




35 ; use of, 35 


temperature, 44 ; of air, 41 ; 
of a metal bar, 40 ; of 
liquids, 40 
Explosions, gas, 177, 182 

FATS, acids of, 269 ; and oils, 


HARDNESS, temporary and 
permanent, of water, 155 ; 
ways of getting rid of per- 
manent, 157 ; ways of get- 
ting rid of temporary, 157 
Heat, capacity, 56-58 ; ca- 


Lactose, 229 
Lead, changes produced by 
heating in air, 121 ; ch;i 
produced by heating red, 
121 ; compounds of, 122 ; 
sugar of, 253 


266 ; chemical nature of,268 ; 
composition of, 267 ; value 
as food, 269 
Fermentation, 238, 239 ; ace- 


pacity of water for, 57 ; 
difference between tempe- 
rature and, 54 ; given up 
during solidification of a 


Leaven, 243 
Length, and width, 6 ; British 
standard of, 3 ; measurement 

of, 1-6 ; metric standard 
/ . 


tous, 256 
Ferments, 238 
Filters, 153 


solid, 58 ; latent, 59 ; libe- 
rated when water is con- 
densed, 61 ; radiant, 71 ; 


.' 4 
Lime, hard water softened by 
addition of, 155 


Filtration, 77 ; removal of sus- 
pended substances by, 75 ; 
through sand, 148 
Fire, coal, 170 
Fire-places, open, 198 
Fish, composition of, 275 ; 
boiling of, 277 
Flame, and illumination, 
176-184 ; gas, 176, 179 ; of a 
candle, 176 


required to melt ice, 58 ; 
transference of, 65-73 '> 
unit quantity of, 55 
Heating, by hot water and 
steam, 202 
Hunger, 164 
Hydrogen, can be poured up- 
wards, 143 ; caution in pre- 
paring, 139 ; collection of, 
140 ; compound formed by 


Linoleum, 7 
Liquefaction, 58-60 
Liquids, convection currents 
in, 69 ; dissolve some gases, 
79 ; solution of, 78-79 ; 
which mix, 78 
Litmus, use of, in 
Litre, 19 ; and pint, 15 
Loaf, how to make, 243 
Lungs, 164 


Flesh foods, and fish, 


burning, 143-145 ; explosion 




272-282 


of a mixture of air and, 141 ; 


MAGNESIUM, increase in 


Flour, 245 ; appearance of 


flame of burning, 141 ; in- 


weight when burnt, 105 


good, 208 ; chief consti- 


flammability of, 140; light- 


Malt, 239 



INDEX 



329 



Maltose, 215, 218 
Margarine, 285, 289 


Oxygen, 123 ; chemical be- 
haviour of, 126-129; cold 


Saliva, action of, 292 
Size, change of, 40-42 


Mead, 240 


substances do not burn in, 


Soap, and hard water, 266 ; 


Meal, typical, 303 
Measurement, of area, 6-n ; 


126 ; collection of, 124-125; 
combustion of substances 


as a cleansing agent, 267 ; 
chemical nature of, 268 ; 


of area, applications of, 7 ; 


in, 126 ; from plants, 162 ; 


how to make from oleic 


of change of temperature, 


from potassium chlorate, 


acid, 265 ; how to make 


42 ; of hardness of water, 


124; physical properties of, 


from suet, 265 ; soft, 267 ; 


155 ; of length, 1-6 ; of 


124, 126 ; preparation of, 


solution, 155 


volume and capacity, 13-21 ; 


124-126 ; products of com- 


Soap-making, 267 


of weight, 26 ; science based 


bustion in, 127-128 


Soda, caustic, effects on cloth, 


upon, 29 




264 ; caustic, how to make, 


Measures, apothecaries, 18 ; 
British square, 9 ; cubic and 


PAPERS, wall, 7 


264 
Sodium, effects of putting on 


fluid, 13-22 ; metric, how to 
remember, 27 ; metric, of 


Pepsin, action of, 292 
Phosphorus, burning of, 110- 


water, 137 
Solids, soluble and insoluble, 


length, 2 ; metric square, 10 
Meat, amount of water in, 


114 ; change produced in 
air by burning of, 112 ; 


75 ; solution of, 75-78 
Solubility, graphic representa- 


273 ; composition of lean, 


different kinds of, in ; 


tion of, 8 1 


275 ; effects of boiling upon, 


slowly takes out oxygen of 


Solution, Fehling's, 214; in 


273, 277 ; extracts of, 278 ; 


air without being lighted, 


acids, 80 ; meaning of, 76 ; 


fat, amount of water and 


113 ; volume of air used up 


of liquids, 78; of solids, 


mineral matter in, 274 ; 


when it burns, in ; white 


75-78 ; saturated, 79 ; 


lean, amount of mineral 


powder produced when it 


sometimes accompanied by 


matter in, 274 ; properties 


burns, in, 113 


change, 81 


of raw lean, 273 ; reasons 


Pint, imperial, 15 


Spirit, rectified, 233 


for cooking, 276 ; structure 


Pipette, 03 


Spirits, 240 


of, 275 j Plants, purifying action of, 


Spoons, capacities of, 15 


Mercury, changes produced 165 


Square, area of, in metric 


by heating rust of, 121 ', Polarimeter, 230 
Metals, action of, on water, Pound, and kilogram. 24 


measure, 7 
Stains, how to remove fruit, 


134-136 ; effects of heating, 


Powder, baking, 243 ; baking, 


264 ; how to remove grease, 


in air, 106 


action of, 244 ; bleaching, 


264 ; how to remove ink, 


Meter, use of gas, 183 


effects on cloth, 264 ; Seid- 


264 


Metre, 4 ; and yard, 3 ; divi- 


litz, 261 


Starch, 210-221 ; action of 


sions of, 4 


Proteids, 210, 249, 302 


iodine upon, 210, 218 ; ac- 


Micro-organisms, and their 


Putrefaction, and decay, 312 


tion of malt-extract upon, 


work, 308-316 




215 ; action of saliva upon, 


Milk, amount of solids in, 




215 ; action of sulphuric 


284 ; composition of, 286 ; 


RADIATION, 70-73 ; and ab- 


acid upon, 214 ; appearance 


condensed, 289 ; curdled, 


sorption, 72 ; application of 


of, 210 ; as a food, 218 ; a 


by acids, 284 ; density of, 


principles, 72 ; distinction 


carbohydrate, 221 ; a col- 


283 ; human, 287 ; proper- 


between conduction and, 


loid, 214 ; conversion into 


ties and use of, 283-290 ; 
purity of, 38 ; skim, 288 ; 


70 ; effects of surface upon, 
71 ; transmission of heat 


sugar, 217 ; cooking of, 
219 ; effects of heat upon, 


souring of, 284 ; value as a 


by, 70 


215 ; formed in green leaves, 


food, 288 


Rennet, 286 


2ii ; grains, 216; how to 


Moisture, amount of, in air, 


Respiration, 297 


change into dextrin, 215 ; 


loo ; formed when candle 


Rochelle salt, 260, 262 


in potatoes, 210 ; in wheat 


burns, 114 


Room, air in, must be 


and maize, 211 ; manufac- 


Molasses, 227 


changed, 188 ; amount of, 


ture of, 221 ; microscopic 




required for healthy life, 


appearance of grains, 211 ; 




187 ; convection currents paste, 213, 217 ; solubilitv 


NATURE, balance of, 166 


in, 186 


in water, 212 ; use in 


Nitrogen, properties of, 130 


Rum, 241 


laundry, 219 ; use in manu- 




Rusting, air absorbed during, 
105 ; and burning, 105-120 ; 


factures, 220 
State, change of, 59 


OBLONG, area of, 6 


change in air caused by, Steam, latent heat of, 62 ; 


Oil, invisible changes caused 


108-110 ; volume of air used 


what happens when passed 


by burning of, 117 


up in, 108 


over heated iron, 136 


Oils, acids of, 269 ; and fats, 




Steaming, 278 


266 ; burning of, 117-119 




Sterilisation, 313 


Organs, and tissues, 293 


SACCHARINE, 231 


Stewing, 278 


Ounces, and drams, 24 ; and 


Saccharoses, 229 


Stimulants, 305 


grams, 24 ; fluid, 24 


Sago, 219 


Stoves, 200 ; Bond's, 202 ; 



330 



INDEX 



gas, 178 ; Sandringham, 


ciple of, 43 ; scales, 48 ; wet 


hydrogen and oxygen, 145 


201 


and dry bulb, 101 


146 ; constituents of natural, 


Suet, action of heat />n, 265 ; 


Tuber, 216 


148-154 ; displaced by solids 


how to make soap from, 




which float, 56 ; effects of 


265 ; properties of, 264 


VAPORISATION, 61-63 


vapour of, in air, 99 ; formed. 


Sugar, as a food, 231 ; barley, 


Vegetables, and fruits, 305; 


when candle burns, 116 ; 


228 ; behaviour with Feh- 


reasons for cooking, 280 


gases dissolved in, 151 ; 


ling's solution, 224 ; candy, 


Ventilation, an experiment in, 


hard and soft, 154-158 ; im- 


223, 228 ; cane, 226 ; carbon 


192 ; and ventilators, 186 ; 


purities in, 151 ; in air due 


in, 224 ; composition of cane, 
228 ; effects' of heat upon 


and warming, 197 ; arti- 
ficial, 197 ; by special tubes, 


to evaporation, 97 ; inflam- 
mable gas obtained from, 


cane, 224 ; grape, 225, 230 ; 


196 ; definition of, 192 ; facts 


134: natural, 148-160 ; puri- 


inversion of, 225, 229 ; 


utilised in, 190 ; the need 


fication of, 152 ; puri- 


manufacture of, 226 ; pro- 


forj 187 


fication of, by distillation, 


perties of cane, 223 ; re- 


Ventilators, 192 ; and venti- 


148 ; rise of, in threads, 100 ; 


moving colour from burnt, 


lation, 186 ; automatic, 


rise of, in salt and sugar, 


224 


196 ; connected with walls 


100 ; sea, 150; solution of 


Sugars, 223-232 
Sulphuric acid, takes moisture 


and chimneys, 194 ; con- 
nected with windows, 193 ; 


chalk in, 154 ; spring or tap, 
149 ; substances held in sus- 


from air, 97, 98 


Cooper's, 194 ; Ellison's, 


pension in, 77 ; substances 




195 ; Hinckes Bird's 


. insoluble in, 76 ; tempera- 




method, 193 ; louvred glass 


ture of boiling salt, 46 ; va- 


TAPIOCA, 219 


panes, 195 ; models of, 192 ; 


pour in, sometimes becomes 


Tartar emetic, 262 
Tartaric acid, 259-263 ; car- 


openings in the wall, 195 
Vinegar, 256 ; action of lime- 


visible, 99 
Water-gas, 175 


bon in, 260 ; composition of, 
262 ; properties of, 259 ; 


water on, 253 ; and its pro- 
perties, 252 ; appearance of, 


Weighing, exercises in, 24 ;. 
method of, 23 ; the need 


salts of, 261 


252 ; artificial, 257 ; density 


for, 25 


Tartrates, 260 
Temperature and changes of 
state, 46 ; and heat, 54, 55 ; 


of, 254; effects of boiling on 
acidity of, 252 ; manufac- 
ture of, 257 ; neutralisation 


Weight and density, 23-39 > 
avoirdupois, 27 : measure- 
ment of, 26 ; of a cubic cen- 


and thermometers, 42 ; de- 


of acidity of, 252 ; organism, 


timetre of water, 30 


grees of, 43 ; graphic plan 


256 ; uses of, 257 


Weights, metric, 24 


of showing, 51 ; of different 


Volume, 16 ; metric measures 


Weissbier, 240 


baths, 50 ; of melting, 59 


of, 1 8 


Whey, 284 


Thermometer, 40-53 ; air, 41 ; 




Whisky, 241 


bath, 51 ; choice of things 


WATER, a bad conductor, 65 ; 


Wines, 240 


to be used in, 44 ; clinical, 


action of iron upon, 135 ;and 




46 ; construction of, 45 ; 


its constituents, 134-147 ; 




domestic uses of, 49 ; fixed 


boiling, temperature of, 46 ; YEAST, 235, 237 ; substitutes, 


points on, 46 ; graduation 


circulation of, 68 ; compo- 248 ; use in bread-making, 


of, 45-49 ; house, 50 ; prin- 


sition of, 136-138 ; contains 246; wild, 235 



Richard Clay and Sons, Ltd., Brunswick St., Stamford St., S.E. 



By A. T. SIMMONS, B.Sc. 

PHYSIOGRAPHY FOR BEGINNERS. Globe 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

ROYAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE MAGAZINE.-" Mr. Simmons' book 
should have a. large circulation, and we recommend it both to those who will use it as 
a text-book, or as ground-work for lectures and demonstrations." 

PHYSIOGRAPHY FOR ADVANCED STUDENTS. 
Globe 8vo, 4^. 6d. 

EDUCA TIONAL NEWS." No better book on the subject has hitherto come 
under our notice, and we recommend it with full confidence." 

By A. T. SIMMONS, B.Sc., and E. STENHOUSE, B.Sc. 

A CLASS BOOK OF PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. Crown 
8vo, 4.?. 6d. 

By E. STENHOUSE, B.Sc. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO NATURE STUDY. Globe 
8vo, 3-y. 6d. 

NATURE. "At last we have a text book of the right kind, something that we 
can unreservedly recommend to the teacher, both as a guide to the method heshould 
follow and as a storehouse of instructions concerning the details of experiments 
within his reach. 

By A. T. SIMMONS, B.Sc., and L. M. JONES, B.Sc. 

ELEMENTARY GENERAL SCIENCE. Globe 8vo, 3*. 6d. 

NA TURE. "It contains an admirable course of practical work covering all the 
principles of mechanics, physics, and chemistry included in the new subject for the 
London Matriculation. . . . The volume contains an instructive course of work 
which will be of real assistance to both teachers and pupils in schools where 
elementary science is taught." 

ACADEMY. "We have given this little work a very careful examination, and 
are convinced that no better introduction to physics and chemistry is at present 
available." 

By A. T. SIMMONS, B.Sc., and H. RICHARDSON, M.A. 

INTRODUCTION TO PRACTICAL GEOGRAPHY. 

Sections I.-IV. Illustrated. Globe 8vo, $s. 6d. ; or 

Section I., Maps, is. ; Section II., The Globe, is.; 

Section III., Climate, is. ; Key, 3^. 6d. net. 

GEOGRAPHICAL TEACHER. "We realise the great value of the book. 

. . For ourselves we must gratefully acknowledge indebtedness to the authors, 
and therefore most cordially recommend the book to other teachers." 

EDUCA TION. "A perfect treasury of useful information for teachers." 

SCHOOLMAS TER. "It is an admirable accompanying text-book to ordinary 
school geography for the older pupils in schools." 

SCHOOL WORLD. "This excellent book comes at a psychological moment." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD., LONDON. 
i 



Works By 
PROF. R. A. GREGORY and A. T. SIMMONS, B Sc. 

EXERCISES IN PRACTICAL PHYSICS. Adapted to 
First and Second Years' Work of Schools of Science. 
In two vols. Globe 8vo, 2s. each. 

EDUCATIONAL NEWS."1h\s book is neither of too advanced a type for 
the scholars in a higher grade school nor too elementary for students beginning 
their course in a Technical Institute or College. The experiments are sufficiently 
detailed, and sufficiently illustrated by diagrams to allow of correct working. Its 
bulk is not needlessly increased by theoretical explanations ; it professes to be not a 
scientific treatise, but a practical text-book, and as such we can recommend it. The 
diagrams are good ; we would particularly call our readers' attention to those on the 
use of the vernier." 

EDUCATIONAL TIMES. "The opening words of this volume ' You are 
provided with a foot-rule" are typical of its thoroughly practical character." 

PHYSICS FOR IRISH INTERMEDIATE SCHOOLS. 
Being a First Year's Course of Exercises in Practical 
Physics. Globe 8vo, 2s. 

A MANUAL OF ELEMENTARY SCIENCE. A Course 
of Work in Physics, Chemistry, and Astronomy for 
Scholarship Candidates (Sections I. and II.). Globe Svo, 
3-r. 6d. 

EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE PHYSIOGRAPHY. (Sec- 
tion I.) An Elementary Course of Physics and Chemistry. 
Adapted to the Syllabus of the Science and Art Depart- 
ment. Globe Svo, 2s. 6d. 

ELEMENTARY PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY. In Three 
Stages. Adapted to the Syllabuses of (i) Alternative Class 
Subject Course H ; (2) Specific Subject XIII. ; (3) Prac- 
tical Science in Evening Continuation Schools. Globe 
Svo, is. 6d. each. 

STAGE I. 

GUARDIAN. "The educational value of this first course, if the experiments 
are really performed, thought out, and written about, as herein indicated, is 
distinctly great far greater, in fact, than Paul Bert's book. . . . The book 
merits very extensive use in schools ; it is a good stepping-stone to higher things." 

STAGES II. AND III. 

SCHOOLMASTER. "These books are well worth the attention of those who 
are interested in the teaching of the elements of science in our elementary schools. 
They are useful because they contain a large amount of instruction respecting many 
of the chemical and physical changes which almost daily come under our notice. 
They are educational because the course of instruction is so arranged as to cultivate 
the powers of observation and reasoning." 

LESSONS IN SCIENCE. A Preliminary Course of Physics 
and Chemistry. New Impression. With model Answers 
to Recent Questions set in the Preliminary Examination 
for the Certificate of the Board of Education. Globe Svo, 
y. 6d. 

SCHOOLMASTER. "The book is capable of rendering excellent service to 
those who use it." 

MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD., LONDON. 

2 



-p 

CO 
0) 

I 



CO 

to fc 

~ . c 

CO W 

to 3 



-P 

CQ <D 



c 



o o 



-P O 

^ c 

<j a> 

H 

* o 

CO CG 



03 



Oi 

LO 

CO CO 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 



